(Dr. E.S. Neelakantan in 40 parts) 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION - PART 1. 


We know that in order to come to certain definite conclusions, we need to assess not only 
the position of planets in the natal chart but also in transit. The transit of planets can 
either support or oppose the natal chart. There are some learned scholars who opine that 
when transits of planets oppose the planets in natal chart, the gochara scheme of things 
gains the upper hand. Now a days lots of people are anxious to know when Jupiter or 
Saturn will leave a particular sign and enter the next. One of the most dreaded transits if 
the sade-sathi of Saturn. But do all people perceive effect of gochara in equal measure? 
The answer is “NO”. So a convenient explanation is given saying that Saturn in his 
second round is beneficial, third round is not so, etc. But the real clue to deciphering the 
effects of planets in transit, lies in our comprehending the Ashtaka Varga system of 
Prediction. Now we will take a brief look at the various ways in which Astrology is used 
to delineate the prospects for future. 


a) Natal Astrology: 


For an individual the birth chart is the main building block from which all other 
results flow. Some times a query is raised about the results of Jupiter or Saturn in transit. 
If in the birth chart, Saturn is either the lagna lord or a yogakaraka or is well placed in 
faourable houses, then one need not worry at all where Saturn is placed in transit. For 
such natives, Saturn in good house in gochara may as well prove to be a boon. If, on the 
other hand, Saturn is a functional malefic in birth chart, then its passage over adverse 
houses can be indicative of critical periods to be faced. 


b) Varshphal: 


By casting the annual horoscope one can find out more about the immediate 
prospects for the forth coming year. The placement of Varsheshwar and Munthe can give 
a broad picture about emerging trends. 


c) Prasna: 


If there is a single issue bothering a person, the best way to find a solution would 
be to erect a prasna chart and seek answers. Generally prasna charts are valid for one 
question only. Deva prasana are conducted in temples to assess the mood of the 
presiding deity. Like this we have various types pf Prasnas for knowing about thief, 
Water in a well to be dug and many other specific matters. 


d) Muhurtha: 


The only way to overcome destiny is through free will. The best way to begin a 
job is to start it in an auspicious Muhurtha. This neutralizes the doshas prevailing in the 
natal chart. If a child has afflictions in 2" and 4" houses, by starting his education at an 


auspicious moment, the basic underlying defects can be mitigated. So whatever be one’s 
birth chart or its pitfalls, an auspicious moment will invariably fetch success. 


e) Mundane: 


Mundane astrology generally deals with celestial phenomena such as eclipses, 
comets and other occurrences which have an impact over countries, continents and 
governments. Its main utility is the weather forecasting. It is also used to estimate prices 
of commodities and fluctuations therein. Amine, drought, cyclones and tidal waves also 
come under purview of Mundane astrology. 


f) Transits: 


To know what will happen at a given moment in time, the present position of 
planets is a major determinant and needs investigation. Though Dasa and Bhukthimay be 
favourable, things will not happen if in gochara planets pose impediments. There is one 
school of astrologers who opine that in battle between natal chart and gochara, the latter 
may prevail, which is perhaps when planets move through adverse houses, even 
people with good natal charts suffer. Having understood the various divisions of 
astrology, let us now turn our attention to the AshtakaVarga. 


Basis of Ashtakavarga: 


The word “Ashta” denotes eight. It refers to the vargas viz. Lagna and seven planets 
(excluding ......... , Rahu and Kethu). Gochara is usually seen from moon. Sometimes 
we looks at gochara from lagna standpoint also. For instance if lagna lord joins the 10 
lord in transit in 10™ house, then matters relating to profession become favourable. But, 
does the overall planetary position in birth chart have any impact on gochara? The Hindu 
Rishis gave their answer in affirmative and Ashtakavarga ia a unique system devised by 
them to “assess the performance of a planet in transit based on the sum total of planetary 
influences in the birth chart”. 


Ashtakavarga is a very powerful system because 


- A strong influence prevailing in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga can override yogas for 
widowhood etc. 

- Among the various systems for Ayurdaya, Ashtakavarga is the best. 

- According to Maharishi Parasara, only general predictions can be made through 
birth chart; definite results can be ascertained only thro ashtakavarga. 


Because of the elaborate reasoning given above, it would be better if all transit results are 
confirmed by correlating transit results with the Ashtakavarga table obtained from a 
person’s Natal chart. 


In our next article we will proceed to discuss the intricacies of the Ashtakavarga system. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION - PART 2. 


Once we get a horoscope for analysis, we need to exert an Ashtakavarga chart before 
beginning our application of rules and our analysis of its impact. Present day astrologers 
are fortunate to be blessed with the “most sophisticated tools” in their armor for giving 
out their analysis. These “tools” are nothing but software packages. Only in the late 
seventies computerized packages for astrology started becoming popular. Earlier, 
horoscopes used to be cast manually with almanacs as an aid. The only date, a client is 
going to furnish would be the rasi and navamsa chart. The astrologer will be left with 
very little clue about exact time of birth (which will be mentioned as nazhigas and 
vinazhigas) or about the ayanamses used. Even the hand writing at times would be 
illegible. Today the entire horoscope with all data required for analysis can be obtained 
in less than five minutes using astrological software. But, has all this improved the 
quality of predictions given? This is a valid question but very difficult to answer. The 
only point which needs emphasis here is that in olden times, Astrologers had an excellent 
grasp over the subject, that even with very little inputs from the client in the form of Rasi 
or Navamsa charts, they could predict significant events to happen with a fair amount of 
accuracy. They also used to employ prasna charts to confirm their findings. Moreover, 
they used to memorise all the text book rules and upon seeing a chart, they can 
immediately detect the presence of yogas in the chart. What has now happened is that 
though there are number of software packages giving lots of data, astrologers do not give 
sufficient time and attention to them. Also clients have very little patience and seldom 
allow professionals to a meticulous and thorough job. 


Preparation of Ashtakavarga Chart 


Let us start this process from the Sun. 


In Sun’s Ashtakavarga, Sun is auspicious from himself in the eo ae g* 10" & 
11" houses. Likewise Moon is auspicious in 3,6,10 & 11 from the Sun. The crucial 
point we need to note is that Rahu and Ketu do not yield any bind us at all. Whether 
lagna should be used for computing Sarvashtakavarga has been debatable issue. The 
Bindus of lagna add up to 49, the student has tow options - to include lagna thereby 
obtaining 386 bindus in all. Excluding lagna we get 337 bindus in the Sarvashtakavarga 
chart. 


Rahu’s Ashtakavarga. 


Text books like Shambu Hora Prakash have given bindus for Rahu as well. Now the 
Ashtakavarga of Rahu adds upto 43 bindus as follows: 


From: 

Sun :123578 10 
Moon :>135789 10 
Mars :235 12 


Mercury 2478 12 
Jupiter :13468 
Venus : 67 1112 
Saturn 73-9 7 10 11 12 
Lagna 3459 12 


Now, we will have a look at the tables of all planets and see how the magic figure of 337 
is arrived at. In brief, 337 bindus is actually a proess of summation of bindus obtained in 
each of the individual planetary chart. I wish to repeat here that lagna or rahu is not 
reckoned for the purpose of obtaining sarvashtakavarga of 337 bindus eventhough there 
is difference of opinion among learned scholars on this point. 


Sun 48 
Moon 49 
Mars 39 
Mercury 54 
Jupiter 56 
Venus 52 
Saturn 39 


Total 337 


TABLE-1. For SUN — 48 Points 


From Total 
Saturn 1 2 4 7 8 9 10 11 8 
Jupiter 5 6 9 11 4 
Mars 1 2 4 7 8 9 10 11 8 
Sun 1 2 4 7 8 9 10 11 8 
Venus 6 7 12 3 
Mercury 3 5 6 9 10 11 12 7 
Moon 3 6 10 11 4 
Lagna 3 4 6 10 11 12 6 
Total 48 
TABLE - 2 For Moon — 49 points 

From Total 
Saturn 3 > 6 11 4 
Jupiter 1 4 f 8 10 11 12 y 
Mars 2 3 5 6 9 10 11 7 
Sun 3 6 y 8 10 11 6 
Venus 3 4 5 7 9 10 11 7 
Mercury 1 5 4 5 7 8 10 11 8 
Moon 1 ) 6 a 10 11 6 
Lagna 3 6 10 11 4 
Total 49 
TABLE — 3 For MARS - 39 points 

From Total 
Saturn 1 4 8 9 10 11 7 
Jupiter 6 10 ‘| 12 4 
Mars 1 2 7 8 10 11 7 
Sun 3 5 10 | 5 
Venus 6 8 11 12 4 
Mercury 3 2) 6 11 4 
Moon 3 6 11 3 
Lagna 1 3 6 10 11 > 
Total 39 


TABLE -4 for Mercury 54 points 


From Total 
Saturn 1 2 4 7 8 9 10 11 8 
Jupiter 6 8 11 12 4 
Mars 1 2 4 a 8 9 10 11 8 
Sun S) 6 9 11 12 5 
Venus 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 11 8 
Mercury 1 3 5 6 9 10 11 12 8 
Moon 2 4 6 8 10 11 6 
Lagna 1 2 4 6 8 10 11 7 
Total 54 
TABLE -5 — for JUPITER — 56 Points 

From Total 
Saturn 3 5 6 12 4 
Jupiter 1 2 3 4 7 8 10 ‘| 8 
Mars 1 2 4 7 8 10 11 7 
Sun 1 2 3 4 7 8 9 10 Lt 9 
Venus 2 5 6 9 10 11 6 
Mercury 1 2 4 5 6 9 10 11 8 
Moon 2 5 7 9 11 5 
Lagna 1 2 4 5 6 7 9 10 14 9 
Total 56 
TABLE — 6 — For VENUS — 52 points 

From Total 
Saturn 3 4 5 8 9 10 11 7 
Jupiter 5 8 9 10 11 5 
Mars 3 5 6 9 11 12 6 
Sun 8 11 12 3 
Venus 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 10 11 9 
Mercury 3 Ee) 6 9 11 5 
Moon 1 2, 3 4 5 8 9 11 {2 9 
Lagna 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 11 8 
Total 52 


TABLE — 7 for SATURN — 39 points 


From Total 
Saturn 3 mS 11 4 
Jupiter i) 6 11 12 4 
Mars 3 5 10 11 12 6 
Sun 1 2 4 7 10 11 7 
Venus 6 11 12 3 
Mercury 6 8 9 10 11 12 6 
Moon 3 6 11 3 
Lagna 1 3 4 6 10 11 6 
Total 39 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION —- PART 3. 


To assess the impact of a planet in transit, we need to follow the three steps 
mentioned below in the same serial order. 


1. Find out the nature and propensity of the lords of dasa and bhukti. 


2. Judge the impact of these lords in transit. Irrespective of whether they are favorable or 
unfavorable, the resultant impact will prove to be negligible, if there is a planet transiting 
a “vedha” point from the former planet. During the course of the dissertation, we will try 
to understand the meaning and impact of “vedha” points. 


3. Correlate gochara with Ashtakavarga table. Favourable planets in gochara with feeble 
support in Ashtakavarga do not yield desired results. 


Consider the case of a person running Venus dasa. There are two courses for Venus — one 
from Pisces, sign of its exaltation to Virgo and the return journey back to virgo. Virgo is the 
debilitation sign of Venus. So it progressively loses its strength while moving towards 
Virgo. So a person running Venus dasa will be benefited during its journey towards Pisces 
and the movement towards Virgo would prove to be otherwise. 


There are a few thumb rules by which gochara rules can be understood quickly. We know 
the Upachaya houses are 3,6 and 11 and in a natal chart a natural malefic is good in 3,6 or 11, 
So the first thumb rule we need to understand is that in Gochara, Mars and Saturn are 
favourable in 3,6 and 11. 


The above rules are also applicable to Sun. In addition Sun in 10 favours completion of 
some great enterprise. So in addition to 3,6 and 11, Sun is good in 10 also. What applies to 
Sun, applies to Rahu and Ketu also. Considering this rule, we observe, Sun, Rahu and Ketu 
are favorable in 3,6,10 and 11. This is the second thumb rule. 


Moon is favourable in 1,3,6,7,10 and 11. Venus is favorable in houses other than 6,7 and 10. 
Thus Moon gives good results in six houses while Venus gives good results in 9 houses. 

To understand this rule we need to keenly observe one point — As far as houses 6,7 and 10 
the effects of Moon and Venus are just the opposite in terms of whether it is good or bad. 
This completes the third thumb rule. 


Mercury is favourable in all houses and in 11° (excluding 12" house). Write down all even 
houses. 


2,4,6,8,10 12 - 
Replace 12 with 11 - 


2,4,6,8,10 11. 
This gives the list of favourable houses for Mercury. This is the fourth thumb rule. 


Jupiter is favourable in all odd houses (barring | and 3) and in 2 also. 
Write down all odd houses - 1,3,5,7,9,11 - 
Ignore | and 3 but include 2 - 


2,5,7,9,11 
This gives us the list of favourable houses for Jupiter and is the fifth and last thumb rule. 


Please note that Vedha will not act between Sun and Saturn; also between Moon and 
Mercury. 


We will now summarize all these rules in a tabular form. 


Sun gives good result in houses ( No Vedha from Saturn) 


11 
S) 


House 3 6 
Vedha 9 12 


11 
8 


House 1 3 6 7 10 
Vedha 5 9 12 2 4 


Mars gives good results in Houses 


House 3 6 11 
Vedha 12 9 


Mercury gives good result in houses. (No vedha from Moon) 


| 10 11 | 
| 7 | 12 | 


| House | 2 | 4 | 6 | 8 
| Vedha i 3 9 1 


Jupiter gives good result in houses 


Vedha 12 4 3 10 8 


House Dy 5 7 9 11 


Venus gives good result in houses 


House 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 
Vedha 8 7 1 10 9 5 11 


Saturn gives good results in Houses. (No Vedha from Sun) 


House 3 6 11 
Vedha 12 9 


Now we are through with all the fundamental Gochara rules. However each planet in a specific house 
is capable of producing certain specific results.As mentioned earlier only by integration of the rules 
of Ashtakavarga with Gochara ,a clear picture about future trends will be obtained.In our next article 
we will see how planets function in producing results in transit. 


ASHTAKAVARGA — PART 4 

By Dr. E. S. Neelakantan 

In our previous article we discussed about minimum number of bindus for each bhava to 
become effective as well as prediction of prosperity from Ashtakavarga chart. In this 
article we will dwell upon further intricacies of Ashtakavarga System of prediction. 

Rules of Ashtakavarga do not substitute rules of general predictive Astrology. They 
should be understood harmoniously or in other words, in tandem with the general rules 
of astrology. 

Saturn as we all know is a natural malefic. In some charts it is also endowed with evil 
qualities even functionally. Its transit over a house where bindus are less than stipulated 
becomes a major factor in producing adverse results. 

Consider the Bhinnashtavrga of Moon. For all the karaka of moon, this table is crucial. 
If Saturn as a malefic transits over a house where Moon has very few bindus, then such a 
transit will forebode evil for the areas in a person’s life over which Moon has control. 
Now we will have a brief look at what the karakatwas of major planets are: 

Sun _ : Father, Right Eye, Physique 

Moon : Mother, Left eye, Mind 

Mars : Immovable property, brothers 

Mercury : Education, Speech 

Jupiter : Children, Wealth, Intelligence 


Venus =: Spouse, comforts of life, vehicles. 


Saturn : Labourers, servants, means of livelihood, longevity. 


It is important to note that a house will fare well if it has four or more bindus. The 
converse is also true. A house whose bindus fall short of this figure can only prodce 
unfortunate results. 


Before we discuss the effects of planets in bhavas, we need to revisit the area dealing 
with what each bhava denotes ina chart. This being an off-discussed and familiar area, 
we will mention the key points of bhavas and then proceed to the main topic. 


Lagna: As one’s personality, phusical body. 
2. Speech, wealth, eyesight, family 
3. Courage, Co-borns, Voice, Proficiency in Music 
4. Mother, vehicles, House, Happiness. 
5. Cheildren, Merits of previous births, 
6. Debts, Diseases and enemies. 
re Spouse, Overseas Travel 
8. Longevity 
9. Preceptor, Good Fortune, Divine grace. 


10. Work, Honour 
11. Opulence, Elder brothers 


12. Expenditure, Losses 


How Planets influence a Bhava: 
In brief, we will now discuss how a Planet can influence a bhava. 


1.A bhava gets destroyed when occupied by a malefic. Conversely it 
flourishes when aspected or occupied by a benefic. 


2. Mixed effects will be felt if both a malefic as well as benefic occupy a bhava. 


3. Planets in 6.8.12 do not yield beneficial results. ( Please note that if sucha 
Planet happens to own 
One of the three evil house, then they mitigate the hardships thereby 
proving to be beneficial. 
Such as Hassha Yoga, Vimala Yoga, Sarala Yoga and Vipareetha Yoga operate 
on this principle). 


4. Amalefic in own house or exaltation yields good results. 


5. A benefic in debilitation or getting combusted loses its benefic power and 
therefore yields bad results. 


Any student of Astrology who can understand the essence of these principles can easily 
forecast the outcome of each bhava in a horoscope. If the bhava, bhava lord and karaka 
are strong and are also well placed, the good effects of that bhava are assured. However 
Sun in 9, Moon in 4, Mars in 3, Jupiter in 5 and Venus in 7 do not yield desirable results 
on account of the dictum that a Karaka planet in that bhava (over which it is the karaka) 
actually spoils that bhava. 


Now we will see one important rule which gives an added dimension to the rules of 
astrology which we already know. 


1. The well-known principle is that a planet which has good strength by virtue of being in 
exaltation, own house or in the house of another friendly planet or by virtue of 
occupying quadrant or brine would yield favourable result. 


But however well placed such a planet may be, the results would not be favourable if it 
happens to occupy a house with very few bindus (meaning less than 40 in the 
bhinashtavarga chart. 


2. A planet which is badly situated by virtue of being in debilitation or sign ( 
in Rasi or Navamsa) is known to produce untoward or evil results. 


Such a planet would yield very good results by occupying a house having more number of 
bindus ( meaning a house having 5 or more bindus) 


| would just like to make one point clear here. All along people have been consulting 
astrologers who come to immediate conclusions by just having one look at the chart. For 
instance if Jupiter in its Capricorn in both Rasi and Navamsa, the immediate conclusion Is 
that Jupiter is very weak. But really speaking if a planet is in the very same house in both 
Rasi as well as Navamsa, it gets a new form of strength ie. Vargothama and one need not 
consider the vulnerability arising out of debilitation while giving predictions. Similarly 
Bhinnashtakavarga chart gives two important principles which are very important for 
judging whether the planet is really beneficial or not. Thus the common saying, “ On 
should not get carried away by external appearances “ might convey precise meaning 
while we discuss Ashtakavarga charts. 


11° house 


The eleventh house stands for fulfillment of wishes. As we discussed earlier this is the 
lasha bhava. If Karma bhava (10"" house) is stronger than the 11"" house (labha bhava) 
one has to take tremendous amount of efforts to earn wealth.Similarly we can compare 
2"? house (Dhana bhava) with 11™ house (Labha bhava). Both these houses are 
indicators of material prosperity .To become wealthy, which of the two bhavas should be 
stronger? The second house can be compared to a well, while the 11" house can be 
compared to the rain. If rainfall is scanty, naturally the well will find to become dry. 
Hence, the answer would be that the 11" bhava should should be stronger than the pie 
bhava, if a person should continue to enjoy prosperity. If 6'" house is stronger than the 
<1" house, chances of welth being lost due to debts, diseases or enemies is there. 


Bindus and Rekhas: 
To assess the performance of a planet in transit, the following three rules would suffice. 


1. When a planet passes through a house with no bindus, the entire transit period is 
inauspicious. If the passage is through a house with 8 bindus, the whole period is 
auspicious. 


2. Assuming that a bhava has 7 bindus and a rekha, the planet who has contributed the 
rekha gives inauspicious results in its transit over that bhava. 


3. Assuming that a bhava has 1 bindus and 7 rekhas, then the transit of that planet who 
has contributed 1 bindu alone would prove auspicious. 


Ashtakavarga_as a balancing factor: 


Let us say that a particular bhava has more number of bindus. From what we have 
understood so far, that bhava will become favourable, if that bhava is occupied by a 
malefic or aspected by an evil planet, would not the bhava effects be unfavourable? 
Here Ashtakavarga acts as a balancing factor. The effect of malefic aspecting that bhava 
is effectively countered by the surplus bhavas obtained by the bhava. On the same 
analogy, deficiency of bindus in a bhava can be compensated by the aspect or presence 
of a strong benefic. With these remarks, we will proceed to discuss the outcome of 
planetary transits in the next edition of our article. 


ASHTAKAVARGA - PART 5 
INTRODUCTION; 


In our previous article we had discussed how Ashtakavarga compensates for shortcomings in a 
chart that occur due to general principles of astrology. In this article, we will go on to discuss 
how each planet influences the Ashtakavarga Chart. 


How do planets influence us? They control lives of human beings through vibrations. 
Astrology, in brief, is the science of vibrations and it is this vibrational energy which produces all 
the effects that we perceive, both good and bad. 


SUN - AN ENERGY CENTRE 


Everything that we need to do requires energy. Hence we often say, “| can’t do anything now. 
| am feeling very tired. | want to sleep”. When we sleep, our body revitalizes itself and when we 
get up we feel as though we are fresh. 


In a car showroom, you can see all varieties of cars. Some of them have utility value, some of 
them are so costly that they are termed “luxury Cars”, some are sturdy, some are useful only for 
city use — but one feature which is common to all cars is that without fuel (which may be Petrol 
or Diesel), no car will run. One can find lot of posh houses today having all kinds of modern 
electronic devices — but the fact remains that when there is power cut, no device will function. 


We know in this world, the sun is main source of energy. Plants utilize this energy for their 
growth. Even in our human body, certain important chemical changes are brought about 
through sunlight. For example human body when exposed to sunlight produces Vitamin D. 
When we speak of the nine planets, we know that Sun is also a planet in astrology. When we 
speak of the nine planets in Astronomy we exclude Sun, Moon, Rahu and Ketu and include in 
their place Earth, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto. When we talk of Astrology, we treat Sun as 
planet. Still we need to appreciate one key difference between Sun and the remaining eight 
planets - Sun generates energy of its own. We can call the Sun as one gigantic nuclear power 
plant operating through the scientific process called nuclear fusion. All planets as well as Moon, 
merely reflect the light of the Sun and hence appear to be luminous. Despite the best efforts of 
scientists, the world over, nuclear energy through fusion has not become a viable proposition in 
a large scale. So it is a wonder that God was able to set up such a large nuclear power plant 
(propelled by nuclear fusion) without any scientists working on that or engineers to do the 
construction of the factory. The Sun is not only the epicenter of power but also a living God 
whom we worshiping daily as the soul of the Trinity, Brahma , Vishnu and Siva (Virinchi 
narayana Sankaratmane). The sacred Gayathri Manthra is also an invocation to the Sun and 
occupies a very important place in the spiritual pursuit of Mankind. With these introductory 
remarks about the Sun, let us now turn our attention to the Sun’s Ashtakavarga Chart. 


Predictions through Sun’s Ashtakavarga 


There are two important concepts we need to grasp here. 


1. Though, Ashtakavarga is primarily a tool to assess transits, it can still be used to judge the 
strength of planets in natal chart. So the first concept we need to understand here is that, 
predictions based sun based on natal chart need to be based on how many bindus it has 
obtained in sun’s Bhinnashtakavarga. 


2. The second concept we need to know is that not only Sun in its transit will deliver results 
based on Sun’s Bhinnashtakavarga but also other planets in their transit will influence the 
matters over which sun has domination, based on the number of bindus in the sun’s 
Ashtakavarga chart. 


Now we will have a detailed look at the first concept mentioned above. 


1. Sun in the 10" house is supposed to be very strong especially when in Aries. In addition to 
being in own house or exaltation if it is associated with 5 or more bindus, Rajayoga is caused. 


2. One becomes the owner of vast estates if all the following conditions are satisfied. 
a) Jupiter is in a Kendra from Sun as well as lagna. 


b) Jupiter is in own house in the middle of a bhava and has 3 or more bindus in the 
Sun’s Ashtakavarga chart. 


3. When sun is in an “upachaya “ house meaning 3,6 or 11 with 3 bindus or more , then those 
bhavas prosper. 


4. When Sun is in its own house or in exaltation in Lagna,with 5 or more bindus the person 
becomes a king endowed with long life. 


5. Diplomats, Ambassadors and ministers are people who enjoy royal favour. Lifestyle of such 
people can best be described as enviable. They also enjoy very good social status. One will 
attain this status if sun occupies the 5" house with above average bindus. 


6. There are many people who go to astrologers to verify whether they will enjoy power and 
status. If sun as lagna lord is well placed with more than 5 bindus, one will enjoy good status 
and will be placed in life having access to power and regal paraphernalia. 


The above concept we discussed, just a while earlier is that sun gives different results based on 
its transit over houses with varying bindus. The results are tabulated as follows: 


1. bindu Diseases, sorrows 

2 bindus Misunderstanding, worries 

3 bindus Aimless travels, mental affliction 

4 bindus Parity of loss and gain 

5 bindus Meeting pious people, Learning new things or subjects. 
6 bindus Good health, fortune 

7 bindus Honours & riches are got. 

8 bindus Highest honour, Universal respect. 


After going through the above table, one question may be raised. Is this table applicable to 
Gochara movement of Sun or to the natal placement of Sun in a person’s horoscope? As 
discussed Ashtakavarga applies only to the Gochara movement of Sun. However | wish to 
emphasize that the rules stated above can be effectively employed to assess the influence of 
sun’s placement in radical horoscopes also. 


| wish to give one commonplace example to explain this point. Schoolchildren while playing 
street cricket use tennis balls. So at times a tennis ball performs the role of a cricket ball. 
Likewise the rules of Ashtakavarga can be imported into general rules of Astrology for improving 
our comprehension of natal charts. 


In this write up. for the first time in this series of articles on Ashtakavarga, we will have a look at 
a few horoscopes to understand the theory part in a practical way. 


Before we venture into this,a few points in relation to theory and practice need to be understood 
clearly. In fact one reader has sent an e mail to us, stating that he wishes to have practical 
chart analysis done after every theoretical point is discussed. Now | wish to state that if the 
theory part is well understood, applying it in practice would be easy. But to understand theory 
from reading charts would be an exercise in futility. The story goes that a man keen on finding 
out what causes inebriation went to investigate a group of alcoholics. Each of them was tasting 
a different drink (whisky, Vodka, gin etc), which of course is usually consumed along with soda. 
The man arrived at the conclusion that since the common ingredient in all these drinks is Soda, 
the inebriation is attributable to Soda.(whereas in reality soda never causes inebriation) Though 
this analogy might found a bit crude, the important lesson that it teaches is that it is always 
possible to take the wrong logic out of analysis of the chart. Hence my earnest request is that 
theory should be learnt as theory only. Reading of horoscopes is not a substitute for 
learning the theory behind astrology.The theory tell us the cause. The chart tells us the 
result. So theory and practice have a cause-effect equation . With these words, we will discuss 
three horoscopes, now being taken up for analysis. 


The first chart we take up for analysis is the chart of the great philosopher and theosophist, J 
Krishnamurti (May 12,1895 - Feb 17,1986). He was raised under the tutelage of two great 
leaders of Theosophical Society, namely Annie Besant and C.W.Leadbeater. 


In his chart both the Sun and Saturn are exalted with six bindus each. The signs which they 
occupy, viz., Aries and Libra, obtain 36 bindus each in the Sarvashtakavarga chart. It is 


important to note that for Capricorn lagna, Sun does not become a malefic by owning the 8" 
house as it is said that Ashtamadipathya dosha does not apply to the Sun and the Moon. 


In Chart 2, which belongs to eminent vocalist of yesteryears, M.S. Subbalakshmi, who was the 
first musician to be honoured with the Bharat Ratna award, Sun joins an exalted planet in both 
Rasi as well as Navamsa and is also placed with 4 bindus. Though Sun is in 12, it is actually 
placed in 11" bhava. So in placement, conjunction as well as in Ashtakavarga, the Sun is well 
placed to give excellent results. 


Chart 3 belongs to a retired Government Official who worked as a Chief Commissioner of 
Income Tax. In his horoscope, Sun occupies a Kendra as lagna lord with 4 bindus and in 
Scorpio, which has 27 bindus in sarvashtakavarga chart. 


Summing up this discussion, we find that in all the three horoscopes, the following features are 
present. 


1. Sun is well placed 


2. It obtains good number of bindus in the Bhinnashtakavarga chart or/and obtaining 
good number of bindus in the sarvashtakavarga chart. 


3. They are blessed with high reputation or/and Government honour or patronage. 
Due to limitations of space, we need to conclude our discussion about the Sun with a request to 


our student — readers to analyse more charts with the principles discussed so far to gain clarity 
in perception. In our next article we will take up the Ashtakavarga of Moon for our analysis. 


ASHTAKAVARGA - PART 6 
Dr. E.S. Neelakantan PhD 


In our previous article we discussed about the salient features of Sun’s Ashtakavarga. 
In this article we will take a look at Moon’s Ashtakavarga chart and its implications. 


In Astronomy, Moon is just a satellite of the earth; In Astrology , Moon is a full-fledged 
planet. The Sun and Moon give rise to eclipses, which the other planets do not cause 
eclipses. So the Sun and Moon, even though they are treated as planets are in some 
ways different from the rest. One major difference between the luminaries is that Sun 
generates light on its own, whereas Moon shines on account of the light rays of sun 
falling on its surface and getting reflected. Moon is perhaps the only planet which 
exhibits dual qualities as a malefic as well as a benefic — while waning it turns malefic 
and while waxing it is considered a benefic. Moon, according to Vedas governs the 
mind ( Chandrama Manaso Jayatha — Purusha suktam — “ Mind emerged from Moon’). 
So, no study of an individual chart could be said to be complete , unless a 
comprehensive study of the Moon’s placement is undertaken. 


In this context, we need to form an opinion about Moon after considering its effects in its 
Bhinnashtakavarga chart. This we will study, in depth in this article. 


1. Everyone wishes to have a decent status in society, wealth, comforts, peace of mind, 
happiness, good influence in society, good fortune and above all, a loving mother to 
look after household affairs. All these things are vouchsafed when Moon is well placed 
with 5 or more bindus. 


2. Moon is the karaka of mind. A person endowed with intelligence can grasp what is 
said to him in no time. Such persons can solve any problem in no time through sheer 
presence of mind. These qualities are found in persons, in whose birth chart Moon is 
well placed with 6 or more bindus. 


3. Ascertain the position of Jupiter. Find out in which house Moon is placed therefrom. 
If Moon is placed in 6,8 or 12 from Jupiter an inauspicious yoga termed as Sakata Yoga 
is given rise to. There is a saying, that for a person born with Sakata Yoga, Yogabanga 
or cancellation of other good yogas takes place from time to time (Sakta Yoga Jathasya 
yoga bhangam pade pade). Effects of Sakata Yoga are: 


a) Loss of fortune 

b) Poverty, Misery and difficulties 

c) Lack of support from one’s own kith and kin 
When Sakata Yoga is present and the Moon in such a case is placed with 3 or less 
bindus, one will have debts, diseases and enemies. 


4. lf all the conditions mentioned infra are cumulatively present, one becomes highly 
prosperous: 


a) Moon is waxing 
b) Moon is placed in 9 or 11 
c) Moon obtains 5 or more bindus. 


One must understand the essence of these conditions for judging a chart. 


As discussed earlier Moon in its waxing phase is a benefic. Secondly houses 9 and 11 
are very auspicious as they represent luck and gains. Thirdly Moon with 5 or more 
bindus is certainly bound to yield favourable results. So, in a chart if all these factors 
are present, success and prosperity are guaranteed. 


5) A weak moon can also lead to loss of mother. If Moon with no bindus occupies 
7,8,or 12 early death of mother is possible. 


6) Afflictions to mother is possible of Moon with 3 or less bindus occupies 7 or 8, while 
Rahu is in the 2"? house. 


7) Danger through weapons is indicated when Moon occupies lagna with 3 or less 
bindus. 


8) Generally astrologers look at the asterism occupied by the moon before fixing up an 
auspicious Muhurtha. Suppose in a person’s chart, Moon has contributed 0 bindus to a 
rashi. That rashi needs to be avoided for all auspicious functions. In other words, we 
should perform all good things only on days when the Moon is transiting a rashi, which 
has received good number of bindus in the Moon’s Bhinnashtakavarga chart. 


9) Today it is said that people in western countries have more wealth than the rest of 
the world. One would expect them to be happy on account of that. On the contrary, 
depression is found mostly in western countries. So the fact remains that mere 
possession of wealth cannot create happiness. Anxiety, mental depression and 
sickness are given rise to when Moon is placed with less than three bindus in the 
Bhinnastakavarga chart. 


10) One becomes famous or even equivalent to a King if Moon obtains 8 bindus in its 
Bhinnashtakavarga chart. 


11) Moon with 8 bindus in exaltation enables a person to become a King. His fame and 
prosperity also increase manifold. 


12) Sometimes when two or more horoscopes are found to be in agreement and 
everything is found to be okay, we are at a dilemma about choosing the correct bride or 
groom. In such cases Ashtakavarga can come to our rescue. 


a) Mark the sign and navamsa occupied by the lagna lord as well as the 7" lord 
in the boy’s horoscope. (say A1, B1) 


b) The Janma Rasi of the girl could be 
- A sign which is trine to the above mentioned houses (A1, B1) 
- House of exaltation/debilitation of the lagna and 7" Lords as mentioned 
above. 


c) Now, there is a third clause which could also become applicable here. The 
janma rasi of the bride could be the sign which obtains the highest number of 
bindus in the groom’s Bhinnashtakavarga chart (of the Moon) 


The above astrological principle is stated by Mantraswara in his treatise, Phaladeepika ( 
chapter 10, verse11) 


It would be advisable for all astrologers to take up the chart, whether it be that of a boy 
or girl and find out which Rashi has obtained the highest number of bindus in the 
Moon’s Bhinnashtakavarga chart. Select a suitable bride or groom whose Rashi is 
identical with that Rashi. This is one way in which greater harmony can be introduced 
in marriage life. 


13) There is an interesting superstition in some parts of India. One meets with good 
fortune if one happens to see a fox as the first thing in the morning. Now certain truths 
in our country are expressed as superstitions. Fox is an animal which gets up by 3 a.m. 
in the morning. So a person who rises early in the morning can possibly sight a fox. 
There is a saying “ Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and 
wise” .Usually people who get up early in the morning are hardworking.Hardwork is the 
surest way to attain success and good fortune.Correlating the two, the maxim goes, 
“Seeing a fox in the morning brings good fortune” This maxim is also subject to misuse. 
Sighting of foxes in order to become auspicious (as an omen) should be accidental,not 
pre- planned. Some people keep foxes in their houses and see them in the morning in 
order to make the day auspicious but that is against the spirit of the maxim. Now, 
ashtakavarga also gives us some advice on what we should see as the first thing in the 
morning. 


a) One should visit a person in whose chart Moon is present with 8 bindus. 


b) Gift of cloths or any presentation to such persons will usher in prosperity. 


For success in life three things are needed. They are Wealth, Knowledge and above 
all, the grace of God. Hence the first thing we should do in the morning is to see both 
palms and say the prayer 


“Karagre vasathe Lakshmi, Karamadhye Sarawathy, Karamoolethu Govindha 
Prabhathe Kara Dharshanam” 


Worshiping the palm, Wherein Goddess of wealth ( Lakshmi) resides at the top, 
Goddess of learning ( Saraswathi) at the middle and the Supreme God Vishnu resides 
at the base. 


There is a tradition in Kerala to see “Vishukkani” as the first item when the Solar Year 
begins. Sometimes we used to sleep in the bedrooms and the Vishukkani would be in 
the hall. The real fun is to get up, close the eyes and walk up to the place where the 
“Vishukkani” is kept and see one’s own face in the mirror, in the morning. Usually some 
elder member of the family would wake up and escort the junior members to see the 
vishukkani. Yellow pumpkin, cucumber, Jack fruit, Mango and a special flower which is 
yellow in colour called Kanipoo would be kept in front of the decorated mirror. All these 
traditions show that some of the principles we discuss in Astrology are also found in 
spiritual traditions in our Country. 


Now we take a look at few charts to see how these principles apply in practice. 


The First chart we will take up for discussion is the horoscope of Tony Blair, former 
Prime Minister of United Kingdom. He is the only person to have led the Labour Party 
to three consecutive General Election Victories. He was the Prime Minister of United 
Kingdom from 02.05.1997 to 27.06.2007. Moon is well placed in the 9'" house aspected 
by Jupiter and also placed with 6 bindus. 


Chart 2 belongs to a person who lost his mother when he was just about 12 years old. 
Moon is placed in the 7" house with 3 bindus while Rahu occupies the 2"° house. Also 
in the bhava chart, Moon occupies 8" house. This chart illustrates the principle we 
discussed in rule 6, above. 


Chart 3 belongs to a retired official of Air India, who is now about 75 years old and 
residing at Mumbai. His mother who is aged about 95 years is also staying with him. In 
his horoscope, the Moon is exalted and in own navamsa aspected by Jupiter and 
obtains 6 bindus. Mercury as 4" lord is in the 5"" house with 6 bindus. The 4" house 
has 31 bindus in the Samudaya Ashtakavarga chart. All these factors have supported 
the longevity of the native’s mother. 


The End. 


Ashtakavarga System of Prediction Part -7 
By Dr.E.S.NEELAKANTAN. 


In the last two editions we discussed the Ashtakavarga system from the point of 
view of the luminaries, Sun as well as the Moon. Now,we move on to the 
predictive aspects of the remaining planets. Now we will devote our attention to 
the third planet in this sequence, namely Mars. 


The first question we need to raise and understand the answer is _what are the 
significations of Mars? 

Mars stands for:_ 

1) Mental strength as well as physical strength. 
2) All products given rise to by the earth. 

3) Brothers 

4) Chivalry 

5)Adventure 

6) Fire 

7) Gold 

8) Relatives 

9)Weapons 

10) Thieves and enemies 

11) Enthusiasm 

12) Adultery 

13)Falsehood 

14) Wounds or injuries 


Mars and the Yoga bhavas 
Ruchaka yoga 


When Mars occupies a quadrant and is also strong(either by occupying its own 
house or by being in exaltation),then this yoga is given rise to. 


Effect :The effect of Ruchaka yoga being given rise to in an individual chart is as 
follows;- 

a) The person will have a strong physique. 

b) Will be well-versed in ancient lore. 


c) The person will either be a King or one equivalent to a King. 
d)The person will have an attractive physique. 
e)The person will be wealthy and also charitable. 


It is important to note that Ruchaka yoga happens to be one out of the five major 
yogas which are terned as “Pancha Maha Purusha yogas”. The word “Maha 
Purusha” means “Great Man”.So Ruchaka yoga can elevate a person to the 
pinnacle of glory. What needs to be stated additionally is that if Mars in sucha 
good position has more number of bindus , then the beneficial properties of the 
said planet are greatly enhanced. 


SAS| MANGALA YOGA 


This yoga is caused by the conjunction of Moon with Mars. Ancient writers say 
that the effect of this yoga is acquisition of wealth through unscrupulous means. 
But on the positive side one can say that the yoga is good for prosperity. It is said 
that Goddess Lakshmi will never leave that person in whose chart Sasi Mangala 
yoga is present. If Moon and Mars gain more number of bindus or if they conjoin 
in a house which has more number of bindus in the Sarvashtakavarga chart , the 
promise shown in the chart will be fully realized. 


During childhood days , lots of time is spent on day dreaming. We dream of 
spending our entire summer vacation in some foreign country with no 
botheration about studies for the whole period. Writers like Enid Blyton and 
Franklin Dixon used to add food to the fire by igniting the childhood passion for 
adventure. But the passage to adulthood quickly robs the child of its ignorant 
dreams. Whether one’s dreams would become reality or not — is the million dollar 
question? If the promise shown by the strong planets situated in quadrants or 
trines are well supported by 


a) Aspect or Conjunction of benefics or 
b) By gaining large number of bindus in the Bhinnashtakavarga chart or by the 


house occupied by the said planet gaining large number of bindus in the 
Sarvashtakavarga chart , then one’s dream will surely attain fruition. 


Effects of Martian transit 


As discussed , Mars is auspicious while in houses 3, 6 or 11 in Gochara. We also 
read about Gochara vedha in our previous articles. For the sake of emphasis, let 
us once again recapitulate the concept of Gochara veda, by studying the following 
table 


House of transit 3 6 11 
Vedha house 12 9 5 


Let us take a person born with Moon in Cancer. Transit of mars in 3 is good. So 
Mars gives good results in Virgo, provided there is no obstruction from 12" house 
in the form of vedha. This means while Mars is in Virgo, no planet should be in 
Gemini. If there is a planet in the 12" house in Gochara, then the transit of mars 
is 3 will not yield any benefit. Astrologers while issuing predictions about the 
effects of planets in transit should study the adverse effects of Gochara 
vedha. Unfortunately this is one area in Astrology receiving least attention and 
consequently many forecasts based on transits are likely to miss the mark. 
Results of Martian transit based on the number of bindus is indicated in the 
following table: 


Table 1: 
No. of kinds Effect 

8 Gain of wealth 

7 Wealth to/from 
brothers, 

6 Favourite of the 
king or master 

5 Pleasing behavioural 
effects 

4 Equality of pleasure 


as well as pain 


3 Separation from 
brothers/spouse,danger 


Quarrel 

Bodily afflictions 
Stomach pain, disease 
and death 


Today the most important Hindu festival for the purpose of shopping happens to 
be Akshaya Tritiya. According to Scriptures, one should do lots of charity on this 
day because only then Dharma will last forever. Upholding Dharma is the 
foremost tenet of Hindu scriptures .One who upholds Dharma is protected by 
Dharma — so goes the adage . (Dharmo rakshathi rakshitaha)Now-a-days this 
auspicious day is being utilized by people to buy precious metals in the hope that 
prosperity would last long in their homes. A word of sagacious advice in this 
matter is given by the Rishis of yore based on Ashtakavarga method. One should 
purchase land, gold etc, when Mars passes through a bhava containing the 
highest number of bindus in Ashtakavarga. 


1. The effects of Mars passing through a house with a bindu are as follows:- 
a) The person gains wealth 
b) Health improves 
c) Bodily lustre (Kaya kanthi) improves 


2. The following diseases are caused by Mars while passing through a house 
devoid of bindus. 


a) Indigestion 
b) Headche 
c) Diseases arising out of impurities of blood and bile. 


We hear people saying , “Yesterday night | had food in this particular hotel. So | 
am having Indigestion problem today” ; “Yesterday | watched a late night movie . | 
am having a dull headache due to lack of sleep.” All these happen to be direct 
causes. But what about the Indirect cause? The indirect cause is Astrology. 
Astrology is a science that always works behind the scenes like a movie director. 
So , how is one benefitted by knowing this science? First, take an almanac and 


note all the transits. EST makes our job simple by indicating all transits in the 
calendar year in the annual number which comes out in January every year. Next, 
take the horoscope of a person and see which are the vulnerable houses having 
few bindus. Thirdly correlate Martian transits with individual charts. One should 
exercise caution with regard to health especially which Mars is transitting the 
vulnerable houses in the Natal chart. This is how Astrology can be made into an 
useful science in the day to day lives of people. By using Astrology merely for 
Horoscope matching while deciding on matrimonial alliances , we are merely 
touching the tip of the Iceberg. There are far more matters in our mundane lives 
that should benefit from a profound science like Astrology. 


We have now understood in this article, some of the fundamental aspects about 
Mars and its transits , its role in Ashtakavarga and the two significant yogas it 
forms ,namely , Ruchaka yoga and Sasi Mangala Yoga . We will deal further on the 
role of Mars in Ashtakavarga in our Astro - lessons next month. 


(To be continued in next issue) 


ASHTAKVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICITION - PART -8 


BY Dr.E.S.NEELAKANTAN 
Introduction 


In our previous part we had discussed about the role of Mars in 
Ashtakavarga. As the entire discussion could not be completed 
in one piece , we will continue the discussion here. 


Medical opinion as on date is that we should consume small 
amounts of food at periodic intervals. In olden days people 
used to have heavy lunch and not have any food intake in 
between meals. As acidity could develop because of that, 
doctors advise patients not to leave much gap between meals. 
Here we have one similarity. If the discussion on Mars is spread 
over two articles, comprehension becomes easy.In vedic times, 
much emphasis on acquisition of knowledge was laid on 
revision and repetition of what has already been taught. 
Students of Astrology must not only keep on updating their 
knowledge but also keep reading what they already know; 
otherwise they may not be able to recollect the rules when 
they sit down to analyse horoscopes. With these introductory 
remarks we will move over to our discussion on role of Mars in 
Ashtakavarga. 


Judgement of Mars in Ashtakavarga 


1) Mars is Bhoomi Karaka or significator of immovable 
property.This is indicative of stability or permanency in 
mundane matters.Hence it is very important to have larger 
number of bindus in the Trikona houses in the 
Bhinnashtakavarga chart of Mars. 


2) One will become rich if Mars with 8 benefic bindus is also 
exalted. 


3) Find out the sign in the Bhinnashtakavarga chart of Mars, 
which has received Zero bindus when that house is transited by 
Saturn it will give rise to the following results for co-borns. 

(a) Death 

(b)Lawsuits 

(c)Enmity 

(d)Disputes 

(e)Legal problems or court cases 


4) When Mars with 8 bindus is either exalted or located in own 
house and is placed in the lagna, 4", 9" or 10", one becomes a 
crore pathi. 


5)If Mars in lagna is in Aries, Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius or 
Capricorn, one becomes a king if the above planet obtains four 
or more bindus. 


6)Kings are of various types ; one can rule over a town, city, 
state or even a country. The greater, the area over which he 
has control, the more is his renown. For example, Great Britain 
had almost the whole world under its control and there was a 
saying at that time, “The sun never sets on the British Empire”. 
So the head of Great Britian was not only the head of his 
country but also ruler of all countries under British rule. In 
order to administer the conquered countries , the port of 
“viceroy” was created ; India had viceroys like Lord Ripon, Lord 
Curzon etc. To find out whether a person would become a king 
and if so to what extent his empire would be is possible 
through the analysis of Mars in Ashtakavarga. 


(a) In any bhava, Mars with 8 bindus would make a person a 
petty king; This we can take as the lowest grade. 


(b) Assuming that in the above case, Mars is in lagna or the 10" 
house, one becomes a king- this is the next higher grade in 
royalty. 


(c) If apart from being born in the combinations mentioned 
above , one is also blessed to be born in a royal family, one 
becomes the ruler of a country; 

One subtle point needs to be appreciated here. An ordinary 
person can become a petty king if supported by rules of 
astrology.A prince , having an identical combination becomes 
not just a petty king but the ruler of the country. This means 
rules of astrology should be applied after taking into 
consideration the person’s background. 


| just wish to cite one example here. Those who have travelled 
from Chennai to Mumbai by Chennai — Dadar express train 
would be able to understand what | am telling here faster. 
When the above mentioned train halts at Pune junction , what 
they do is to attach one Electric locomotive engine at the rear 
behind the guard’s compartment. The next station would be 
Lonavala and once the train reaches Lonavala , the rear engine 
is detatched and only the electric locomotive in the front hauls 
the train.The reason for this move of Railways is that the 
Western Ghats is exactly in between Pune and Lonavala and the 
rear engine helps push the train from behind while it is climbing 
the hilly terrain. 

Similarly a prince becoming a king is a usual occurrence. Right 
from birth onwards , the prince is groomed in all royal matters, 
undergoes training in commanding the army, horse-riding, use 
of weapons etc. and at an appropriate time, he ascends the 
throne. For an ordinary man, there are too many matters 
pulling him down and he can become a king only by overcoming 
heavy odds. Here Mars functions like the rear engine in pushing 
him up to the top. But because the prince has the advantage of 
being born in a royal family, the similarly placed Mars, pushes 
him to a far greater level because of the initial momentum. 


(d) If in addition to the combinations mentioned above , Mars is 
also in own house or exaltation , one becomes a Emperor. 


7) If Mars with 4 bindus is related to Saturn , either by way of 
conjunction or mutual aspect , then one will either be a head of 
state or a judge. 


8)If Mars with 3 bindus or less is related to Mercury, by way of 
conjunction or mutual aspect , one will not only be poor but 
also subjected to sorrow. 


9) If Mars with 4 bindus or more, is related to Moon, by way of 
conjunction or mutual aspect , one will become head of many 
states. 


10) When Mars as lord of 4"is in the 4"" house with 4 bindus , 
then the person born in the royal family will own three or four 
fortresses. Instead of 4" house, let us say under identical 
conditions , Mars is in the 10™ house. One will be a king or 
dispenser of justice. 


11) We all know that Mars is the Karaka for brothers. So all that 
we need to know about brothers , valour or courage can be 
deciphered from the Ashtakavarga of Mars. 


12) Depending upon whether the lagna is chara 
(movable),sthira(fixed) or ubhaya(common) and from the 
position of Saturn , we can draw certain inferences from 
Bhinnashtakavarga of Mars. The rules can be understood from 
the following table 


Nature of Nature of Number of Result 
Lagna Saturn’s Bindus in 
Rasi Saturn’s 


Rasi 


1.MOVABLE COMMON 1-3 Loss of brothers/ 


Sisters. 
2.COMMON MOVABLE 1-3 Loss of brothers. 
3.FIXED ANYWHERE. 1-3 Loss of 


brothers&fathers 


4.MOVABLE ANYWHERE 5orMORE ~~ PROSPERITY & 
WILL HAVE MANY 


BROTHERS. 
5 .FIXED COMMON 4ORMORE LONG LIVED 
(INSTH RICH 
HOUSE) COMFORTABLE 
MANYBROTHERS 


13) When Mars in conjunction with the lord of 7" house is in 
debilitation or is combusted or has association or aspect of 
malefic, there will be loss of brothers. 


Now we will take up the chart of Arthur Ashe(July 10,1943 — 
Feb 6,1993) ,former Wimbledon Champion for our practical 
discussion. 

Ashe is credited with having won three Grand Slam 

Titles, viz.,the US Open in 1968,Australian Open in 1970 and the 
coveted Wimbledon title in 1975. 

In his chart ,Mars is the yogakaraka-cum-10" lord placed in the 
tenth house itself. 

The salient feature in Ashtakavarga is that Mars obtains 5 
bindus which is the highest obtained by any house in its 


Bhinnashtakavarga.The Samudaya Ashtakavarga chart shows 
that the maximum number of bindus is obtained by Aries with a 
fgure of 35 where Mars is placed.So Mars apart from being in 
its own house is also strengthened in its individual 
Ashtakavarga as also in the Sarvashtakavarga by obtaining the 
No.1 rank in terms of number of bindus obtained.As Mars 
happens to be the 10" lord denoting karma,Ashe rose to the 
pinnacle of glory in his field of work,namely his career as a 
Professional Tennis player.He could even be termed as a 
Monarch of the Tennis kingdom.As we know ,Sports is one are 
to prove one’s supremacy.A strong Mars in ancient times could 
make one a king and in a way ,Champions in Sports are 
invariably led to the top by a strong Mars. 


The End 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION PART 9 
Dr. E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


Introduction 


We have just completed our discussion on the Ashtakavarga features relating to 
Mars. In this article , we will see the impact of Mercury on the Ashtakavarga 
chart.It is important to know the basics as for as planetary features are 
concerned. When we go on to analyse events the relationship between the event 
and the planet which represents that event should be deciphered. If we wish to 
know whether a person is lively to become a “humorous speaker” then Mercury is 
the main planet to be analysed. 


Basic Qualities of Mercury 


Mercury denotes 
Learning 

Eloquence 

Fine Arts 

Oratory 
( Devotion to) Vishnu 
Entertainment 

Skill 

Rituals (Yajna) 

Recognition from scholars 
10. Maternal Uncle 
11. Friendship 
12. Upasana or Focussed Meditation 
13. Application of Logic (Yukti) 
14. Truth (or being truthful) 
15. Prince 
16.  Sister’s children 


2 eae oe ae 


When a query is raised pertaining to any of the fifteen areas mentioned above, 
Mercury will have the First say in answering the query. 


A brief description of Mercury is given as follows: 

Mercury is green like the blade of Durva grass . It represents all the three 
humours :- Wind (Vata), Bile (Pitta) and Phlegm (Kapha) . Mercury governs the 
skin. 

While discussing the practical whilits of these concepts , there is a joke. A budding 
astrologer was asked to predict the likely colour of the bride whom the person 
was going to marry. He noticed that Mercury was in the 7" house. He said with 
confidence , “The bride in all probability will be green in colour.” The sum and 
substance of this joke is that rules of astrology have to be applied with caution. 
What colour a person can be? In India you can see fair-skinned people , dark 
complexioned as well as medium complexioned whom we term as “wheatish”. If 
Saturn or Rahu is the 7" , probability of the person being dark complexioned 
exists. The other planets will give either medium or fair complexioned persons. So 
“green” should not be literally understood as “green” in this context. Suitable 
modifications need to be made where ever required. 


Yogas pertaining to Mercury 
The main yoga which Mercury gives rise to is the Bhadra yoga. This is actually one 


of the Pancha Maha Purusha Yogas euological in ancient texts. Effect of Bhadra 
yoga is as follows: 

Person born in Bhadra yoga 

1. Will be strong 

2. Have a well-developed chest 

3. Have limbs in proper proportion 

4. Will be taciturn 

5. Willlive up to a good old age. 

Summing up all these qualities in a single line , we might as well say that a person 
born in Bhadra yoga will have a long life and a pleasing personality. 


There is one adverse yoga involving Mercury which is termed as Mathibhramana 
yoga. Moon and Mercury in conjunction afflicted by another planet in a quadrant 
gives rise to this yoga, makng the person loose his Sanity . Moon denotes “mind” 
and Mercury denotes “Intelligence”. So this unfortunate result would be expected 
if this adverse yoga (duryoga) is present. 


Parents expect their children to get First rank in class, centum in all subjects, to be 
good at all extra-curricular activities and above all to be head and shoulders 


above their classmates or batchmates. But the problem is that a helicopter cannot 
fly than a Jet aircraft. So each individual will have a different intellectual capacity 
as indicated by strengths of Moon Mercury. So in today’s education , the adage , 
“Comparisons are Odious” is the only true statement one can make. 

There is another auspicious yoga , where Mercury plays an important part , 
namely the Budha- Aditya yoga. The effect of this yoga is that a person who is 
born in this yoga will be highly skilful, endowed with good reputation , comforts 
and happiness. 

One needs to go in — depth into this matter to appreciate its significance. We say 
that a planet which is close to the Sun loses its power meaning it gets combusted 
(or rather becomes subject to Mowdya dosha). The following table shows within 
what degree it should be to become combust. 


Planet Degrees 
Moon 12 
Mars 17 
Mercury 14 
Jupiter 11 
Venus 10 
Saturn 16 


So, this yoga will occur only when Mercury is outside the orbit of the Sun by 
more than 14 degrees. If mercury is within 14 degrees of Sun , it will get 
combusted and no doubt , this yoga will be present just like the dress worn by the 
model boy or girl on display outside textile showrooms - fit only for display not fit 
to be worn. 

An “effective” Budha — Aditya yoga occurs when both the said planets are in 
conjunction but separated by at least 14 degrees. 

In some sense this yoga is rare and in another sense it is commonplace . 
Mercury and Sun are never separated by more than 28 degrees. So, virtually in 
every horoscope one can find this combination . Some scholars hold the view that 
for two planets to become conjunct, they have to be within.5 degrees of each 
other. However, in practice a liberal view is adopted that two planets are said to 
be in conjunction even when they happen to occupy the same sign. By the rigid 
view expressed earlier , Budha- Aditya yoga can never be effective because on 
one hand they should be within 5 degrees to become conjunct and on the other 
hand , Mercury gets combust within 14 degrees of Sun. 


| will briefly summarize some of the theories now being held in practice, even- 
though one cannot claim finality of opinion on this controversial yoga. 


1. since Mercury is always close to the Sun, its combination can as well be 
ignored. 


2. When Mercury is combust (be being within the 14 degree orb), one will be 
intelligent but diseases to nerves etc become possible. 


3. Budha — aditya yoga (or Nipuna Yoga) necessarily means Mercury is 
combusted. 


4. Another view is that the above yoga occurs when both Sun and Mercury 
occupy the same sign without Mercury getting combusted. 


Transit Results of Mercury: 


We will now have a look at the transit results of Mercury, when it passes over 
various bhavas which may contain from zero to eight bindus: 


8 bindus — Honour from King or Ruler: Good fortune 

7 bindus — Wealth, happiness, Absence of worries 

6 bindus — All-round success 

5 bindus — Acquisition of Friends 

4 bindus — Loss of enthusiasm 

3 bindus — Sickness, worries 

2 bindus — uneasiness due to misunderstanding with family members 
1 bindus — Loss 


O bindus — Fear of death 


Mercury as karaka for Astrology: 

Mercury is the key planet for deciding whether one will become proficient in 
astrology. Astrology as a science is closely connected to Mathematics and 
Astronomy . One significant aspect of Astrology is that it is perhaps the only 
science which deals with the life of a human being and explaining the course of 
life much before the actual happening of that event. Astrologer offers a valuable 
clue on finding out whether proficiency in astrology is indicated. 

1) ascertain the Janma Lagna of a person as also the 5the lord. Now move over 
to Mercury Bhinnashtakavarga chart to see the number of bindus in the 5" house 
(from Janma Lagna as indicated above). If ketu occupies that house with 1-3 
bindus, one will become proficient in Astrology. 


2) Alternatively it is said that one becomes proficient in Astrology, merely 
because Ketu conjuncts the 5" lord. 


| wish to quote certain rules from various textbooks on astrology on the role of 
Mercury in horoscopes, which make one acquire knowledge in Astrology. 


1) Moon in Gemini / Virgo aspected by Mercury. 

2) Conjunction of Mercury with Venus especially in the 2" or 3 house. 
3) Moon (in Leo ) aspected by Mercury. 

A) Mercury in 4 house 

5) Sun with Mercury in 2" house. 

6) Mercury with at least 5 bindus in 6'" from Saturn. 


7) Mercury with five or more bindus itself is enough to give knowledge in 
Astrology. 


Out of several rules | have confined my attention to a select few because even if 
the student knows them, he can make out the trend and will successfully be able 
to predict, given a chart, whether proficiency in Astrology could be said to exist. 


About dance, Music, Fine Arts: 


A few decades back, only certain groups of people took to music, dance or fine 
arts. The only aim in life was to acquire a degree in college and then seek 
employment. This doesn’t mean that in those days people didn’t have taste for 
Fine Arts. The necessity to get employed arose mainly due to economic reasons. 
That being the case, getting a degree and getting a job were given utmost priority 
to the exclusion of everything else. But today everywhere you find parents trying 
to make their children not only good at studies but also in as many fields as 
possible. Even summer coaching camps in cricket see lots of boys getting trained. 
A couple of decades back anybody going out to play cricket will get scolded by 
parents because it was a major distraction from academics. Studious boys never 
ventured to learn any extra-curricular activity. But in avery short time, the entire 
outlook towards sports, games, fine arts has changed and one main reason for 
this could be that where parents are prosperous, children are less burdened to 
take over family responsibilities. 


From the Bhinnnashtakavarga chart of Mercury, one can make out whether one 
will be proficient in Fine Arts. 


1) If Mercury is placed in own navamsa one will be proficient in sculpture, poetry, 
Vedanta and Fine Arts. 


2) Music and dance will be a person’s forte if Mercury is associated with Saturn, 
venus or Moon. 


3) One will be a great poet and dramatist if mercury (with more than 4 bindus) 
occupies the navamsa of Mars or Venus and gets aspected by Jupiter. 


4) dance, Music and mimicry would be learnt easily by a person in whose chart 
Mercury (with more than bindus) is debilitated in navamsa and conjuncts or gets 
aspected by malafics. 


Ashtakavarga System Of Prediction (Part -10) 


By Dr. E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


Introduction 


We have just seen some of the rules pertaining to Mercury with 
reference to the Ashtakavarga system of prediction. We, now move to 
discuss further details about Mercury and its input on horoscopes. 


To recapitulate the last part of our article in Part-9 , we found 

-that Mercury in our navamsa will make one proficient in Fine Arts, 
poetry etc. 

- If the navamsa of Mars/Venus , one becomes a great poet or 
dramatist subject to a few conditions. 

- In debilitation navamsa one will become proficient in music, mimicry 
etc. subject to certain rules. 


Usually people with refined taste take to Fine Arts, Poetry etc. 
because it requires a mature intellect. Hence the requirement of 
Mercury in own navamsa as stated above. To be good at mimicry also 
requires skills but a person who writes poetry requires more 
intellectual ability than an artist who performs mimicry. So, we will now 
arrive at our conclusion. When Mercury has more number of bindus in 
Ashtakavarga , one will definitely have artistic taste and skills. If 
Mercury is in own navamsa , than those artistes will be good at 
intellectual field like poetry. When in weak navamsa , the strength of 
Mercury in Ashtakavarga will give artistic taste and skills but they may 
tend to branch out to areas like mimicry where less intellectual skills 
are sufficient. 


Edison said “Genius is 99% perspiration and 1% inspiration .” 
But there is a contrary proverb also —“Geniuses are born , not made .” 
So which of the two is correct? Astrology furnishes the answer. To be a 
genius in any field , you must have it in your birth chart. But if you start 
seeing horoscopes, you will note that many people with distinct 
Rajayogas in their birth chart , have fared poorly in their career. What is 
the reason? Planets impel but they do not compel. Without sincere 
effort , the promise shown in a horoscope ,may fail on account of 
proper initiatives being taken at the appropriate time. 

| wish to cite one analogy here when talking about whether 

birth or effort makes a person a genius . The noted Tamil poet 
Kannadasan was once advised to learn a little bit of English since it 
would be useful to him as his stature at that time was steadily rising . 
Actually he picked up his English lessons pretty fast . At that time he 
visited a friend’s house at night. Those days there never used to be 
calling bells and you have to tap the door. When Kannadasan tapped 
the door the inmate shouted , “who is standing out?” In acool tone, 
Kannadasan replied , “Outstanding poet standing out .” | am citing this 
example to show that by his very birth Kannadasan was a genius in 
Tamil language. But since the poetic talent was latent in him with a 
little bit of English learning he could write wonderful sentences , like 
the one | have mentioned above. 

Now we will proceed to see some of the rules concerning 
Mercury in Ashtakavarga. 


1. Mercury with 1 to 3 bindus in any bhava with navamsa in a female 
sign will destroy that bhava. 

We have to understand this rule in a deeper sense. In Astrology, there 
is a crucial link between the bhava and its occupant. Let us say for 
Pisces lagna, Jupiter is in Cancer. We may think that as the tenth lord 
is exalted , tenth house prospects are good. But in reality the maximum 
impart is felt by the 5" bhava in this case. When the 5" bhava is 
occupied by an exalted planet , it is a clear indication of excellent 


poorva punya or merits of previous births. Coming to our rule here, 
Mercury becomes weak when it is placed with 3 or less bindus and 
when in a female navamsa it is not bound to do well. Hence the 
weakness of Mercury spills over to the bhava , rendering the bhava 
devoid of any merit. 

2. When the lord of the bhava occupied by Mercury is in the 6 3 or 
12" bhava from lagna , there will be many obstacles to education. 

As discussed in my previous article , education is accorded top priority 
in today’s life. Your job prospects depend on your education and those 
who are not well-educated end up in mediocre jobs. | wish to cite one 
example from my personal experience . There are people who practice 
Accountancy as a profession. They get all details from the clients make 
up the books and hand them over to an auditor for attestation. The 
Auditor , invariably will be a Chartered Accountant. In many cases , 
these Accountants are not properly remunerated because the clients 
seldom understand the efforts taken by them and secondly they do not 
have formal degree to command respect. Even Chartered Accountants , 
in spite of having a formal degree , tend to lose their dignity when they 
start dancing to the tunes of the clients.So it is very important to have 
formal education and it is even more important to preserve the 
dignity attached to that educational qualification . Merely looking into 
Mercury’s placement is not enough . One has to understand how well 
the sign —disposition of Mercury is placed . If that lord is in one of the 
three evil houses , 6,8 or 12, the continuity of education is bound to 
receive some setbacks. 


3. Even though Mercury is (a) in debilitation (b) Combust (c) in an 
inimical house, still he confers the effects of the bhava provided he is 
associated with 4 or more bindus. 


One salient feature of astrology is that every rule has some exception. 
A planet in debilitation, in combustion or in an enemy’s house is 
virtually powerless and not only the planet proves unfavourable but in 


the process renders the bhava over which it has control, ineffective. 
There are many doomsayers in the community of astrologers, who will 
not hesitate to give out evil forecasts whenever they come across such 
planets. Here ashtakavarga acts as a neutralizing factor. So even if 
Mercury is weak in your birth chart, all hope is not lost. Even a weak 
Mercury, with four or more bindus is capable of giving favourable 
results. This is one more area where there are compensatory features 
provided in Astrology. We know that there are rules for 
Neechabhanga, to support that the debilitation of a planet is 
adequately compensated by the pressure of other desirable features. 
Similarly kemadruma is warded off when kemadurama bhanga yogas 
are present. 

In law, there is a saying, “A Man is Innocent unless proved guilty”. 
On the same lines | wish to propound one rule which should act as a 
beacon for all building Astrologers. “Every planet is favourable unless 
proved otherwise.” Planets obtain strength in a variety of ways. They 
give out evil effects only when they are completely prevented from 
giving out positive vibrations. Astrologers make a “Mountain out of a 
Mole hill’ by giving undue weightage to minor aberrations in the chart. 
It is sad to note that planets are looked upon in the same manner as 
ghosts and demons. 

Please note that according to Astrology, even the Sun and Moon 
are only considered as planets. Without the Sun, can activity in the 
world take place? Similarly all herbs in the world derive nourishment 
from the Moon. This is evidenced by the statement of Lord Krishna in 
Bhagwad Gita . Can any one say that Sun and Moon are capable of 
inflicting harm? What Astrology says is that when their vibrations do 
not reach us in a proper way , their beneficial qualities are curtailed , 
thereby bringing harm in the process. 

4. Note the rasis which have more than 4 bindus in Mercury’s 
Ashtakavarga chart. Transit of Mercury through this bhava is most 
auspicious for commencement of studies. Even a dull-witted student 
becomes proficient in studies by following this rule. 


Many of us are fascinated by Astrology. But how many of us are 
benefitted by this great science? How many schools are willing to 
experiment on the above rule? All you need to do is , catch hold of all 
the dull students in a class. Find out when Mercury is favourably placed 
in transit for each of them . Then you advise their parents to devote an 
hour per day commencing from the date of Mercury’s transit for 
learning the subject either on their own or from a tuition teacher .| am 
sure , there will not be many takers for this suggestion . The reason for 
this is that there are too many people who are skeptical about the 
effects of planets on day-to-day lives. Astrology , in our country is 
considered more as a superstition , than as a science. To change this 
state of affairs , lot of work needs to be done. 


5. Ifa bindu is contributed by the Sun in the 2" house from Mercury 
one’s speech will be patronizing ; if by Saturn , mostly one will utter 
falsehood : if by Mars, harsh speech, Mercury , pleasing and witty. 
Jupiter , clean and intelligent. Venus ;interspersed with anecdotes. If 
the bindu is contributed by an unafflicted Moon, one will be a charming 
speaker ; if otherwise one will be careless in speech. 

It is said in Sanskrit, “Lakshmir Vasathi Jihvagre” (Goddess 
Lakshmi resides at the tip of your tongue). The message is clear ; your 
prosperity depends on how you speak. Sometimes, when a harsh 
message is given out in polite language, it has the desired impact 
without provoking the person to whom it is addressed. Some people 
also know how to use language in a clear way. | wish to cite one 
example here. The late Shri C.N.Annadurai former CM of Tamilnadu 
was adept in both English as well as in Tamil. He was once asked to 
speak a sentence in English with a single word being used thrice in 
immediate succession. He coined a sentence immediately and said : 
“No sentence ends with because because because is a conjunction.” 
This also shows that in English it is not the knowledge of grammar that 
is important but the sense of grammar. How various planets influence 


the second house from Mercury is discussed in rule 5 above and in my 
view, it is quite self-explanatory and needs no further elaboration. 


THE END 


ASHTAKA VARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION - 
Part 11 
By Dr E.S.Neelakantan 


Introduction: 

In the previous two issues we discussed the technicalities related to Mercury, in 
Ashtakavarga. In this edition we will take a look at the various concepts relating to 
Jupiter in Ashtakavarga system. 


Before we venture into the Karakatwas (or governed areas)of Jupiter, we need to 
understand why we need to know them beforehand. I wish to cite one analogy here. 
Bhagwan Sri Sathya Saibaba of Puttaparthi has explained this in the following manner. 
If you file an application before the wrong department, that will not get processed. If you 
wish to attain prosperity, you should worship Kubera along with goddess Lakshmi. On 
the other hand if you pray for prosperity before Goddess Saraswathy your prayer will not 
be answered. What is the reason? Goddess Saraswathy has lordship only over education 
and nothing else. So before you start praying to God, understand what is the portfolio 
allocated to that deity. 


Coming to our subject, if Jupiter is afflicted in a particular birth chart, all the 
portfolios handled by Jupiter in general and the significations of Jupiter with reference to 
lordship over houses in that chart will all get spoiled. If Jupiter has rulership over a 
particular area of the body, in that chart, then afflictions to that part of the body are likely. 
On the other hand a strong Jupiter will boost fortunes in general and in a stricter sense, 
improve the fortunes over those areas over which it has attained lordship. 

For instance if Venus conjoins Jupiter in a particular birth chart, then that person 
will only be moderately wealthy. The reason is that in this conjunction, Jupiter is a 
stronger planet compared to Venus. Money is one area ruled by Venus. So when Venus 
conjoins Jupiter, to some extent, inflow of wealth gets curtailed. 

SIGNIFICATIONS OF JUPITER 

From Jupiter one should seek information about the following: 
1) Knowledge 
2) Nobility 
3) Children 
4) Minister 
5) Good conduct 


6) Teaching profession 


7) Magnanimity 


8) Knowledge of Shruti (oral tradition) and Smiriti (Written tradition) relating to Vedic 
and puranic knowledge. 


9) Reverence to Gods and intelligentsia 

10) Yagna or Vedic rituals. 

11) Tapas or penance 

12) Religious belief 

13) Treasure 

14) Wisdom 

15) Control over passions 

16) Honour 

17) Compassion 

18) Husband’s happiness (in a female chart) 


Having understood the significations let us analyse some of the important 
concepts we need to know. 


Basically Jupiter stands for dignity and a magnanimous outlook. It also gives one 
a broad outlook. Mercury denotes learning while Jupiter denotes Wisdom. A man with 
strong Mercury has analytical and logical skills whereas a strong Jupiter gives Wisdom. 


I wish to cite one commonplace example here. In olden days a journey from 
Madras to Bombay by train might take a day and a half. Bombay mail, if my memory 
serves me right used to start at 10 pm, travel the whole of the succeeding day and 
reaches Bombay on the third day at about 5 am. 


Some passengers used to have a time table prepared of when to open which 
packet and eat during the course of the journey! Actually such elaborate preparation for 
this sort of a journey is unnecessary. I have even seen some passengers come prepared 
with basic ingredients for preparing bhel puri, prepare it then and there and have it. True, 
the logic is right. One may even have to starve if the train were to stop endlessly between 
stations. But over — elaborate preparation is always denoted by Mercury, with its 
emphasis on nuts and bolts details. 


If you were to ask a Jupiter — dominated person travelling he will simply say, “We 
have taken whatever is required and it will be served whenever it is required”. This 
approach smacks of real wisdom; no unnecessary thoughts about potential problems 
which may not crop up at all, and at the same time well prepared. 


As we all know Sun denotes the Atman or soul. Conjunction of Jupiter with Sun 
bestows knowledge of the self. What happens when that knowledge is conferred? It 


bestows liberation from birth and death, a state often referred to as Mukthi. There is 
always a dividing line between mere knowledge and application of that in day to day life. 


Let us say, someone has read Viveka choodamani orYoga Vasishta from cover to 
cover. Does this mean he is well — versed in Hindu Philosophy? The answer is “No”. 
Mere superficial learning is one thing, realization is another. Now we go back to point no. 
15 in the list of Jupiter’s significations. “Control over Passions”. This is the outcome of 
realization of the Self. Many people think that controlling passions leads to self — 
realization. Actually this is the other way round. If you read the Life History of Bhagwan 
Ramana Maharishi, he had a near — death experience near Tortoise rock, in 
Tiruvannamalai. Only then he realized that what perishes at the time of death is the 
physical body - not the soul. Soul has no birth.So How can a birth-less entity meet with 
death? After this experience Ramana Maharishi learnt about the various aspects of Hindu 
Philosophy. Hence the statement we saw earlier “Control over Passions is the sequel to 
self — realization”. 


There are four areas where a female Horoscope differs from that of a male. 


In a female Chart: 
> Lagna denotes physical beauty 
> Fourth house denotes chastity 
> Eighth house refers to her Mangalya Sthana (“which means the happiness she 
attains through wedlock’). For instance a strong and powerful malefic in the 
eighth can make her a widow. 
> Ninth house denotes her children 


Jupiter in a female chart denotes “Husband’s Happiness”. Conversely Venus in a male 
chart denotes “Happiness through Wife”. What do we understand from this? Any 
Astrologer while matching Horoscopes should see how well Jupiter is placed in the 
bride’s Chart and how Venus is placed in the Groom’s chart. 


Actually I have been seen the published Horoscopes in matrimonial sites and journals 
seeking alliance. At first sight it is not possible to make out whether the bio — data is for 
seeking alliance for marriage or seeking a job. Working in a multinational company , a 
six digit salary, being a green card holder, being very fair in complexion are all excellent 
virtues but do they ensure a successful and a happy marriage? Now — a — day’s people do 
not know what they are seeking in marriage. If mutual love and affection prevails lifelong 
between husband and wife, the matter is over. Just this one aspect needs to be looked into 
apart from longevity, good fortune and progeny. 


If you want to have good meals just curd rice and Sambar rice is enough. No need to 
have Rasamalai, Falooda, ice — cream, milkshake, dessert etc. It is very important to 
know what is essential and what is not essential. Today much time is wasted on non 
essential items and that is why many couples seldom come to know what is “true — 
happiness” in married life. If you so wish you can personally verify what I have stated. 
People living in luxuries apartments, owning luxury cars, having all comforts but not 
enjoying even an iota of happiness. This is where Jupiter’s blessings are essential. A well 
placed Jupiter gives serenity of mind, power of discrimination, Knowledge of self and 
true happiness. Such a person will experience bliss, whatever be the social or economic 
conditions were he is placed. He will be an automatic recipient of divine grace .Now, we 
move over to a study of principles applicable to Jupiter’s transit over bhavas. 


When a Jupiter transits over a bhava containing 0-8 bindus, effects are as follows: 


BINDUS EFFECTS 
8 One gets the status of a King 
| Access to various kinds of wealth, Happiness, Birth of 
Children. 
6 Good dress, conveyances are acquired 
5 Success in undertakings: Destruction of enemies 
4 neither profit nor loss will accrue 
3 ear diseases are possible, loss of vitality, distress 
2 loss of landed property 
1 loss of wealth, trouble from enemies 
0 deterioration in the matters pertaining to wealth, children 


and one’s intelligence. 
EFFECTS OF JUPITER’S TRANSITS: 


When Jupiter transits over a bhava having a bindu in his Ashtakavarga increase 
in wealth, happiness and conjugal bliss are all assured. One gets respect, gains 
vitality, enjoys prosperity, gains gold and apparel, and enjoys all sorts of happiness 
in abundance. He gets gifts from people. Now, the above rule is intended to mean 
that Jupiter in Asthakavargha will be beneficial only if it transits a bhava over which 
at least one bindu is there. Devoid of a bindu that bhava over which Jupiter transits 
will not only thwart good things from taking place but also yield bad results. So, 
how do we make sense of Jupiter’s effects in transit? 


Step 1: See what is the house over which Jupiter is moving in Gochara. We know 
pretty well Jupiter is favorable only in 2,5,7,9 and 11. For example Jupiter moving 
over Janma rasi is positively bad.It is also said that Lord Rama went into exile when 
Jupiter was transiting His Janma rasi. 


Step 2: Apply the vedha criterion .Please note that vedha applies only for houses 
where results are beneficial for any planet .In other words Jupiter is beneficial in 
2,5,7,9,11, provided no planet occupies the vedha house shown as follows: 


House 2 5 7 9 11 


Vedha_ 12 4 3 10 8 


Let us say you are born in Cancer rasi. Where is Jupiter now? It is in Pisces Rasi 
.Let us say that a planet is in Aries Rasi in transit. If you remember right, Jupiter 
moved over to Pisces in May 2010. At that time, Mercury was moving over Aries 
rasi. Now that is the time beneficial results will not accrue. The beneficial rays 
emitted by Jupiter from 9 are blocked by the planet in 10. So it goes without saying 
that for Jupiter in 9" to be beneficial ,10 house should be vacant in transit. 


Step 3: After ascertaining the two steps shown above, apply the rules of 
Ashtakavarga . In other words all effects of Gochara are applicable only in 
conjunction with Ashtakavarga. If you make pickles but forget to put the salt, you 
reach no were. Likewise merely talking about Gochara without reference to 
Ashtakavarga is meaningless. 


Out of the nine planets six are malefics. Jupiter is favorable only in 5 out of 12 
houses .Even these benefits get restricted by the Vedha theory.So if you look at 
Astrology as a whole the benefits conferred by planets are comparatively much 
less compared to its adverse features. Maybe this explains why lots of people are 
going through difficulties. 


In our next part, we will proceed to discuss, the intricacies of Jupiter’s transit. 


- THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION — PART 12 
BY Dr. E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


INTRODUCTION: 


It is said that when you step out of your house, you see good omens, you will emerge victorious. It 
so happens that in this Annual Number for 2011, we are fortunate to discuss the Astakavarga concepts 
relating to Jupiter. As Jupiter is the most beneficial Planet in the planetary hierarchy, I am sure the readers 
and the EST team will be blessed with health, wealth and happiness in this New Year 2011, thanks to the 
benign vibrations of Jupiter. I wish you all a happy, healthy and prosperous New Year 2011. With these 
introductory remarks , let us now continue with discussion about Jupiter. 


MUHURTHA ASPECT OF JUPITER’S ASHTAKAVARGA: 


As we discussed for the other Planets also, movement of Jupiter into sa ign having large number of 
bindus can also be a favorable period for commencement of certain activities. The following activities will 
flourish when a person commences an activity when Jupiter moves over a house having large number of 
bindus. 


Initiation into sacred hymns. 

Repetition and further study of such hymns. 
Oblation to sacred fires. 

Performance of sacrifices. 

Feeding of Vedic Pundits. 

Attempts to beget progeny. 

Efforts to create wealth. 


Sho: Ge Que 


An Important fallout of the above rules could be that people who wish to achieve certain things in 
life can benefit out of understanding and applying these rules for themselves. For instance item No. 6 
above deals with “Attempts to beget progeny”. Many people hesitate to go in for artificial methods of 
producing babies due to the risk involved as well as the cost factor. Such people can take risk when 


1) Jupiter transits 2,5,7,9,11 and 
2) Its is not hampered by the Vedha factor and 
3) Jupiter transits over a house where it has large number of bindus. 


This will increase the statistical probability of a person achieving his desire. 
When Jupiter passes over a bhava with few bindus, these pursuits will not succeed. 


One desirous of having a child should impregnate when the rasi representing the bhava which is 
Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga contains the maximum number of bindus is rising and is occupied or aspected by 
Jupiter.The above dictum is based on sound reasoning. However I will be failing in my duty if I do not 
point out that these rules are good for theory only and very difficult, if not impossible to apply in practice. 


Actually, the scriptures say that the birth of a person will coincide with the planetary position 
which fully explains the karma he has performed in past births. That being the case, no further act can 
be performed which is capable of interfering with this principle and procuring for a new born child a 
better destiny than it qualifies for in accordance with the karma theory. 


When Sun occupies a bhava which in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga, contains the least number of bindus 
at the time of birth, the person is unlucky and efforts for improvement will also fail. 


When Jupiter associated with 5 or more bindus, occupies the 6"", 8" or 12" bhava, the person will 
be long lived, wealthy and victorious over enemies. 


All along we have understood that Jupiter in an unfavorable bhava such as 6, 8 or 12 will yield 
only unfavorable results. But here we see a complete reversal of fortunes and even though Jupiter is in an 
unfavorable hpuse , it becomes favorable when it obtains 5 or more bindus. The real significance of this 
rule is that even a major blemish that accrues on account of Jupiter being in 6, 8 or 12 can be 
neutralised by more number of bindus being secured by that bhava. This highlights the role of 
Ashtakavarga in neutralisation of planetary ill — effects. 


Now we will discuss a few rules which if found in totality would make a person a king. 


(a) Jupiter in exaltation or in own house. 

(b) Jupiter in a quadrant or in the 9"" house. 

(c) Jupiter not subject to the following defects namely, debilitation, combustion, placement in 
enemy’s house. 

(d) Jupiter associated with 8 bindus. 


The problem that could emerge out of rules like this is that India which has a population about one 
billion has only one President and one Prime Minister statistically speaking, it is possible for thousands of 
people to satisfy these rules. If the above rule is to be satisfied, we might need to create posts of Prime 
Minister, President etc! That possibility cannot be ruled out because we had one chief election 
commissioner earlier but now we have three in place of one. If this suggestion is not followed, all those 
who have royal combinations would obey the satirical lyric of the great Tamil poet, Kannadasan when he 
wrote 


“He who came in the guise of a bridegroom had no bride to get married to; 
He who came in royal attire had no kingdom to rule” 


Why we are discussing these in detail (and in lighter vein) is to drive home the truth that the Rishis 
who wrote about Ashtakavarga also laid certain guidelines with reference to status in life. Without 
knowing a person’s background, one cannot apply this rule in copy book fashion. If the above rule occurs 
in a chart belonging to a person from an intellectually — oriented family background, one will do charities 
and such a person will rise to the level of a king and also be admired for their intelligence, valour and 
other good qualities. However if the person belongs to the family of a trader, one merely acquires wealth 
and in those with physical prowess, the above combination gives a rank of eminence in the Army. 


One important point we need to appreciate in this discussion is that Astrology functions in 
tandem with the genetic pre — disposition of a person. 


I wish to cite an example here . Astrology is like the electric current. Genetic background is like an 
electric device. If current is supplied to a radio, you can hear the music. If the current is supplied to a 
television set, you can watch the picture. No doubt, the current is the same. But the function varies 
because of the nature of the device utilizing this current. So the Rishis in their infinite wisdom stated that 
according to the basic disposition of that person, judged genetically, the results of this astrological 
combination will vary. 


When Jupiter is associated with 7 bindus and also having the features mentioned above and in 
conjunction with Moon, one will have wealth in plenty and also be blessed with children. 


Now to understand this rule is very easy. Moon with Jupiter gives rise to the celebrated yoga called 
“Gajakesari yoga” which itself is an indicator of fame and wealth. The supports from Ashtakavarga gives 
rise to a Gajakesari yoga par excellence. 


I wish to give one example here to highlight how yoga can either become strong or weak. Take a 
person born in Scorpio lagna. Let us say that person has Moon and Jupiter in Cancer. This will give rise to 
a very powerful Gajakesari yoga. If on the other hand Moon and Jupiter together occupy the 12" house no 
doubt Gajakesari yoga would exist, but the person may not enjoy the full effects of this yoga because 
neither of the two Planets are well — placed to deliver good results. 


Some scholars in Astrology have devised certain methods to quantify the exact strength to yoga. 
Such an approach would be cumbersome as Planets obtain strengths in many ways which are not 
measurable. 


So, three factors can be taken as a guideline for assessing the strength of Planet. 
(1) Placement in a quadrant or trine. 
(2) Being in own house, exaltation and having such other types of sthanabala or residential strength. 


(3) Obtaining large number of bindus in Ashtakavarga. 


If in case, a Gajakesari yoga occurs in a chart which satisfies all these conditions, a superior form of 
this yoga could have been said to occur and as a consequence, the full impact of this yoga will be felt. 


- THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
PART — 13 
Dr. E.S. NEELAKANTAN 


Introduction: 


We have seen the Ashtakavarga features of Jupiter in our last two issues. Here we continue 
with the same subject and proceed to discuss the intricacies involved in the Ashtakavarga 
of Jupiter. 


One popular misconception | wish to clear here. We always say that Jupiter is the foremost 
benefic for any chart. On the contrary Saturn is the greatest malefic. Prima facie, these 
views appear to be correct. Or, do they merely appear true? Really speaking, the above 
view is false. Let me place my arguments before you. 


Only natural benefics are prone to Kendradipatyadosha. Natural malefics are exempt from 
this rule. Saturn as lord of 4 in 4 is good, while Jupiter as lord of 4 in 4 is bad.This is as far as 
natal charts are concerned. Jupiter in Gochara in Janmarasi is as bad as Saturn in Janmarasi 
in Gochara. The nomenclature is slightly different. For Jupiter we say “Janma Guru” and 
for Saturn it is “JanmaSani” which is part of “sade sati”. 


Really speaking, a person born in Taurus, Libra, Capricorn or Aquarius as rising sign would 
find Saturn an admirable ally. On the other hand, there is no rising sign for which Jupiter is 
an unmixed blessing. 


The final argument, | wish to place before you is the dictum, “Karaka in bhava is bad for the 
bhava” (karakoBhavanasaya). Jupiter in 5 comes under this rule. Jupiter is 5 is bad for the 


House of children. Saturn is an exception to this rule — hence Saturn in 8 is actually a 
welcome placement. If you see a chart with Saturn in 8 predict long life. 


Having heard all my arguments, | put you in the position of a judge to pronounce verdict on 
this question — “Jupiter Vs Saturn — which is more beneficial to a person?” 


With this prelude, we move on to discuss the intricacies of Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga in the 
greater detail. 


Two points | wish to stress here — 
e |tis always good to have Jupiter with more than 5 bindus in a chart. 


e Even if Jupiter is in 6, 8 or 12 the mere fact it has obtained 5 or more bindus will 
bestow, wealth, long life and victory over enemies. 


Matters relating to children are to be found out from Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga. In olden 
days people used to have unlimited children. Two reasons can be attributed to that. 


> In olden days, fecundity of people was more as the level of stress was much less 
compared to what it is today. 


> Cost of maintaining a family was less compared to what it is today. 


Today life has become far more complicated than at any other point of time in history. 
Even India is now getting into the same type of civilization prevalent in western countries. 
All these factors have resulted in families with fewer children. Even the simple pleasures of 
childhood seem to be strangely absent in today’s world. 


A personwill be bestowed with as many children as there are bindus in the house occupied 
by the sign — dispositor of the 5™ house from Jupiter. The characteristic of children will 
correspond to the donors of the bindus. 


The appearance of the children will have to predicted from the planetary indications 
provided by Varahamihira in BrihatJataka [chapter II, verse 8] Table 1 gives us a clear picture 
of these indicators. 


TABLE 1 
SUN — Well — proportioned body, bilious, short hairs, coloured eyes. 
MOON - Proportionate body, good eyes, sweet speech. 
MERCURY — Fond of humour ;mix of air,wind and bile 
MARS - Bilious, fickle minded, thin waist 
JUPITER — Corpulent body, phlegmatic 
VENUS — Beautiful eyes, body with more of wind and phlegm 
SATURN -— Lean, tall, rough hairs 


Table 2 gives the areas of the body, over which the planets exercise control 


TABLE 2 
SUN BONE 
MOON BLOOD 
MERCURY SKIN 
VENUS SPERM 
JUPITER BRAIN 
MARS MARROW 


SATURN NERVES 


The character and nature of children born will have to be interred from the planetary 
indications provided by Varahamihira in BrihatJataka [chapter 1, verse 7] [see Table 3 as 


follows] 
TABLE 3 
PLANETS QUALITY 
Sun, Moon, Jupiter SATTWA 
Mars, Saturn TAMAS 
Mercury, Venus RAJAS 


A little bit of explanation is needed here, as many people fail to understand what 
exactly are Sattwa, Tamas, and Rajas. 


| wish to explain this in the light of a parable narrated by Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. 


Once a traveller was walking through a dense forest. He was waylaid by three 
dacoits. The first dacoit said that the hostage be killed on the spot. The second one said 
that instead of killing, we will loot his money and personal belongings and tie him to a tree. 
The third dacoit said that hebe allowed going scot free. Concluding his story Ramakrishna 
Paramahamsa said that in this parable, the first dacoit is Tamas which deadens you. The 
second one dacoit is Rajas which binds you. The third dacoit is Sattwa which liberates you. 
The most significant message of this story is that, at the end of the day, all the three - 
Sattwa, Tamas and Rajas are only dacoits. In other words they are enemies not friends. 
They are fictitious super impositions on the soul and therefore fit to be discarded. The real 
aim of life is to transcend these three qualities. 


The following characteristics are to be understood from Sattwa, Rajas, and Tamas. 
[Refer Table 4] 


Table 4 


SATTWA -_ Kindness, fixed purpose, truthfulness, straightforward ,reverence for Gods and 
preceptors. 


RAJAS - One who is fond of women, poetry, literature, one who is courageous. 


TAMAS - Deceitful, stubborn, lazy, revengeful, sleepy. 


Sattwa gives happiness, makes a person wise. Rajas denotes desire for objects, binds 
the atman by the ropes of karmic results. Tamas denotes ignorance, makes a person 
negligent in his duties and also gives rise to passion and avarice. 


Rishis of ancient times were adepts in telling stories, pregnant with meaning and 
which are easy to understand.The Ramayana, for instance is just a story but for a person 
endowed with the faculty of discrimination, it is a mine of wisdom. 


For example, by reading the qualities of the three demon brothers, Ravana, Vibhishana and 
Kumbakarna, what do you understand? For a moment, recount their respective qualities 
and see which of the three, Sattwa, Rajas, Tamas, they represent. Vibhishana was fond of 
Lord Rama; he was truthful — so he represents Sattwa. Ravana had lust of Sita, he was also 
courageous — so he represents Rajas. Kumbakarna was a demon who used to sleep for six 
months at a stretch. He prayed for ‘Nirdevatvam’ or ‘one who is on a par with Devas’. 
When the Almighty appeared before him and blessed him with wish fulfillment, he by way 
of a slip of the tongue asked for ‘Nidrevatvam’ or ‘one who is always asleep’ and his wish 
was instantaneously fulfilled. So, Kumbakarna stands for the quality of Tamas. 


Another vexed question which often crops up is; when a person will be blessed with 
a child? If either of the following rules is satisfied, one will have an issue in the early part of 
his married life. 


a) The 5" lord is situated very near the 5“bhava. 
b) The lord of the 5" house is very close to the bhava occupied by the lagna lord. 


There is another way to reckon, when a person will be blessed with a child. For this 
we need to know the meaning of the terms Kendra, Panapara and Apoklima. The cardinal 
houses are known as Kendras, meaning lagna, qin house, 7 house and 10 house. From 
the lagna, the 4" house denotes ‘Sukrasthana’ or ‘Matrusthana’. If you treat the 4™ house 
as lagna, then 4" from that house is the 7 house. Again 4" from the 7" house is the 10" 
house and similarly 4" from 10" is the lagna. 


We say that exactly at noon time if we perform an activity the deed will fructify soon. 
That is because it comes under an auspicious Muhurtha called ‘AbhijitWMuhurtha ’. What is 


the specialityof AbhijitWMuhurtha? The Sun is in the 10th house — exactly over your head. If 
we stand under the Sun, at that moment, your shadow won’t fall on the ground. Sun in 
lagna, means the exact time of sun rise. Sun in the 7 means, time of sun set. Sun in the a” 
means, midnight. So all these points are crucial and they are areas of special importance in 


Astrology. 


Kendras, Panaparas and Apoklimas are clearly explained in Table 5 below 


Table 5 
Kendras 1, 4, 7, 10 
Panaparas 2,5,8,11 
Apoklimas 3, 6,9, 12 


The house which is immediately next to a Kendra is a Panapara house and the house 
which is immediately next to a Panapara house is an Apoklima house. 


From general rules of Astrology, we understand that a planet in Kendra gives results 
in the initial stages of a man’s life. When the above principle is adopted in Jupiter’s 
Ashtakavarga, we derive the following thumb rules. 


a) When the lord of the 5" house occupies a Kendra, a person will be blessed 
with a child soon after marriage. 


b) If the aforesaid planet occupies a Panapara, one will get a child in the 
middle part of married life. 


c) If the aforesaid planet occupies an Apoklima house, delay is likely and one 
will be blessed with a child, late in life. 


- THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
PART - 14 
DR. E.S. NEELAKANTAN 

Introduction: 

In our previous article, we discussed some of the pointers to progeny from Jupiter’s 
Ashtakavarga touching upon: 

1) Timing of child birth 

2) Nature of children 

3) Physical appearance of children 


We will now continue with our discussion on Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga. 


Before I begin my discussion, I wish to clarify one point. If you read any text book 
on astrology, you will be flooded with rules. Your confusion begins the moment you 
apply these rules to individual charts. I have seen some computer printouts of persons 
which read as follows: 


“Because kemadruma yoga is present, you will be hard — pressed for money. You will 
always find it difficult to make both ends meet”. 


The next sentence will be something like this: 

“There is a conjunction between a Kendra lord and a Trikona lord in your chart. This is 
Raja yoga because of which you will always be blessed with wealth, houses, conveyances 
and you will live like a King”. 

The best course of action, which the owner of the computer print — out, usually takes is to 
disbelieve both and continue to live his life as usual — just as he has always done prior to 
checking up the chart! 


An important principle in Astrology is that only the stronger influences of 
planets prevail. 9"" lord in the 9" is very good for luck. But at the same time the planet 
should have decent strength in shadvargas. Always verify whether such a planet is 
enjoying the aspect of benefics or is at least not affected by either the conjunction or 
aspect of malefics. Only if such a planet is free from adverse features it can be called as a 
“total benefic” and is capable of yielding unalloyed beneficial results. 


The second point I wish to stress is the employment of freewill.Even if destiny is 
favorable, the results will not materialize if you do not work to your potential. 


An example needs to be cited here. If Daivagna yoga is present in a chart, the yoga will 
make you an astrologer. But how do you become an astrologer? 


Step 1: By learning the subject from a Guru, who himself is learned in the subject. 
Step 2: By reading the original treatises on the subject. 


Step 3: By gathering practical knowledge, by applying the textbook rules to individual 
charts. 

Step 4: By discussions with fellow astrologers and also through experience. Factors such 
as grace of god, mantra siddhi, luck and the horoscope of the astrologer also contribute to 
success. 


If any of the four steps above are besieged with some weakness or the other, 
Daivagna yoga will merely exist in the chart but will not make you a renowned astrologer. 
An astrologer was once questioned by a couple seeking advice on their daughter’s chart 
about when “Guru — Balam” (Jupiter’s movement into good houses in Gochara) will occur 
and will confer marriage. The astrologer suggested the period but also gave a warning. No 
doubt, the period will be auspicious but Jupiter will not do the following tasks on your 
behalf: 


1) Taking the available charts for matching to an astrologer 

2) Booking of a marriage hall (which is usually done more than six months in advance as 
all available dates are blocked) 

3) Fixing a suitable cook, buying sarees and dhotis, printing the marriage card, inviting the 
guests and arranging the Vedic pundits. 


In other words, the astrologer made it abundantly clear,that whatever is your duty, 
only you have to do, nobody will do it for you. Jupiter will do his job — providing a 
suitable opportunity for the girl to get married; nothing more, nothing less. Our own 
expectations out of planets is not only excessive but also out of tune with reality. 


After the bindus in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga have been computed, find out the 
number of bindus in the 5" house from Jupiter. We understood just now that only the 
stronger planetary influences have relevance. Applying this rule in practice, omit the 
bindus contributed by planets in 


1) Inimical houses 
2) Debilitation 
3) Combustion 


The number of children will correspond to the residual bindus subject to a couple of 
observations, as follows 


1) A planet in exaltation or own house is supposed to be strong. So this will 
proportionately increase the number of children. 

2) Based on whether the planet contributing the bindu is male or female, the offspring will 
either be a boy or a girl. 


Find out the house occupied by the sign — dispositor of the 5" house from Jupiter. 
The person will have as many issues as there are bindus in that house (after effecting the 
reductions). 


The planet whose bindu remains (after the reductions) 


- Ifretrograde or exalted gives room for three children 
- Ifin own house, own Navamsa, own drekkana or vargottama, two children 
- Ifin debilitation or inimical house, premature death of children. 


Before moving over to the next rule I wish to give an analogy. We judge the marital 
prospects from the 7" house. 7" house is turned as “Kalatrabhava”. The point is 7” house 
is to be reckoned from which house? An example needs to be cited here. 


In Chennai, the Airport is located in Meenambakkam. An executive who came to 
Chennai was talking to the head of the local office.While they were talking; the executive 
made a remark, “Meenambakkam is far off from Chennai’. The local head did not 
appreciate the remark. What is the reason? He was residing in St. Thomas Mount, which 
is pretty close to the Airport. Before making a sweeping statement, “Meenambakkam 
airport is far — off’, he should have ascertained, from what localityit is far — off. In fact 
there are lots of houses close to the airport and for many of them no vehicle is required to 
reach home after getting down at the airport from a plane. They can as well walk to their 
homes! 


Coming to our discussion, the 7™ house refers to the 7" house from lagna. But 
they also say, the 7” house needs to be judged from Moon as well as the Karaka planet, 
Venus. 


Many quack Astrologers have the habit of making instant predictions like the 
instant readymade foods available in supermarkets. 


Example: “7" lord in 12” — your wife will die” This approach is fatal not for the 
client’s wife but for the astrologer — he can go out of job in no time. 


In north India, there is a concept called “Sudarshan view” in colloquial language. 
For every bhava you analyse from lagna, Moon as well as Karaka Planet. From Lagna, 7” 
lord is in 12 may be compensated if 7" lord from Moon is in the 9th. Secondly 7" lord in 
12 is insufficient to cause death of wife. If in the wife’s chart lagna lord is in lagna, she 
will lead a long life. Moreover, ‘‘one swallow does not make a summer” — Astrology is 
based on cumulative influences of all the planets and a single planet cannot 
determine the destiny of the person. 


Coming back to the subject, the number of children should be judged from the house 
occupied by the sign — dispositor of the 5" from Jupiter. 


The above analysis should also be done from the following positions also. 
1) Lord of the 9" from Jupiter 

2) Lord of the 5" from Lagna 

3) Lord of the 5" from the Moon 


The purposeof these rules is not to confuse the student of Astrology. The real 
import of these principles is that all these houses have a bearing on progeny and as such 
merit serious consideration. 

Find out the number of bindus in the 5" from Jupiter. The following need to be 
excluded. 


Bindus contributed by Jupiter’s enemy. 

Bindus contributed by enemy of the lord of the 5" from Jupiter. 
Planet in Combustion. 

Planet in Debilitation 

Planet in enemy’s house. 

Planet owning the debilitation sign of Jupiter’s 5" house lord 
Saturn 


Please note that Saturn is included in this negative list because he is the lord of Capricorn, 
where Jupiter is debilitated.As the sign dispositor of Jupiter’s House of Fall,Saturn will 
only have adetrimental effect on progeny. 


The remaining bindus, after omitting bindus contributed by malefics, indicate the 
number of children. 


We read just now that the 9" from Jupiter is to be reckoned for this discussion. The 
9" house is a significant indicator for progeny dueto three main reasons: 


> 9" house denotes good fortune. One gets a good child only by luck or fortune. 
Hence 9" house is very important. 

> By adopting the “BhavatBhavam” principle 9" house is the 5" from the 5" house. 

> Ina female horoscope, the 9"" house is the house of children (male children in 
particular) unlike a male horoscope wherein the 5™ house is the house of children. 


In a women’s horoscope, in the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter, the number of daughters 
will be equal to the sum of bindus in the 5" house from lagna, Moon and Jupiter. 


In a women’s horoscope, the number of sons will be equal to the sum of bindus in 
the 9" from lagna, Moon and Jupiter. 


The difference between the above two rules is due to the fact that the astrological 
peculiarity in a female chart is that the 9 house denotes sons while the 5" house denotes 
daughters. 


(THE END) 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
PART —15 


BY Dr. E.S. NEELAKANTAN 


We have been discussing the Ashtakavarga features of Jupiter in the past few issues. We continue 


with the same topic, as the concepts relating to Jupiter are more elaborately discussed in ancient texts 
compared to other planets. One point a discerning reader would not have failed to notice is that while 
attempting to explain the intricacies of Jupiter, we are also taking stock of the general principles of Astrology. 
For the diligent student, this approach would prove highly beneficial as he gets a bird’s eye — view of the 
vastness of the science and its applications. 


Jupiter associated with one to three bindus will not do much good to that bhava which it happens to 
occupy. As we have discussed earlier, a minimum of four bindus is required for Jupiter to become effective. 


| wish to cite an analogy from our day to day life to explain this point. When we cook rice in a pressure 
cooker, we keep the flame at a particular level. Once the lid is pushed up and steam comes out, we reduce the 
flame. Why does the lid get pushed up? The lid is a heavy object exerting downward pressure. The steam 
inside the pressure cooker gradually builds up until it pushes the lid up and steam escapes. But for this to 
happen there is a critical point at which the lid is pushed up. It is this “critical point” we need to understand 
when explaining the role of Jupiter. 


We know that Jupiter is a functional benefic. So irrespective of the number of bindus, it is going to do 
good only. But it needs a certain energy level to operate effectively in individual horoscopes. The “Critical 
point” is reached when Jupiter receives the support of at least four bindus. 


What is the correlation between Jupiter and the bindus in a house? For us to understand this point, we 
need to appreciate that these bindus are actually contributed by the various planets. Jupiter needs the 
support of the other planets to do its job successfully. 


Here is another example to illustrate this point. Immediately after an election, we come across cases, 
where no party gains absolute majority. What do they do to form the government? Take the support of 
independent candidates and like — minded parties. If they successfully cobble up a simple majority, a 
representation is made to the Governor to allow the formation of a government. 


HereAshtakavarga is comparable to a planetary coalition. For a house to get four bindus, the support of 
planets is required. This is like saying that whatever good Jupiter intends to do is supported by the other 
planets. In Parliament when an ordinance is proposed, support of the majority of elected representatives is 
required or else it will fail. Likewise when a majority of planets veto Jupiter’s proposal, it will fail. This is 
reflected by Jupiter not getting a minimum of four bindus in a bhava. This means that bhava will not live up to 
its expectations so far as Jupiter’s significations are concerned. 


Everybody aspires for the birth of a virtuous son. Now a day’s people aspire for birth of good daughters 
also because in recent times we come across many families where daughters perform better than sons in 
almost all walks of life. In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga find out the bhava which obtains the maximum number of 
bindus. Should conception take place when Sun transits that bhava, a virtuous son will be born. 


We have all heard of the term “Raja yoga”.This yoga is just arule(or a set of rules to be precise) in 
Astrology which states that a person born under this yoga will get elevated to the status of a king. Certain 
rules clash with these category of rules (resulting in Raja yogas) and effectively cancel the occurrence of that 
Raja yoga. Such rules are termed as “Raja yoga bhanga” rules. Please note that Raja yoga bhanga is exactly the 
opposite of Neechabhanga Raja yoga. In Neechabhanga Raja yoga, the cancellation of debility leads to a Raja 
yoga. In our case, the cancellation rule wipes out the Raja yoga and makes the man poverty stricken. 


If the Moon associated with 1 to 3 bindus occupies the 6" or 8" from Jupiter, the person will always be in 
debts eventhough born with a raja yoga. This particular yoga is known as Sakata yoga. Thepeculiarity of this 
rule is that Sakata yoga operates with an additional minus point — Moon obtaining less than 4 bindus. 


Ordinarily Jupiter with 5 bindus in an exalted navamsa is bound to give plenty of wealth to a native. 
Even in such a case the Sakata yoga described earlier is powerful enough to cancel the effects and make the 
native poor and unlucky. 


When Moon occupies the 6" or 8° from Jupiter, the following adverse features are seen: 


e Moon becomes a functional enemy of Jupiter. This is due to the fact that two planets in 
shastashtaka(or 6/8 axis) become mutual enemies even though they may be natural friends. 
e The above yoga is one that denies the benefits arising out of Gajakesari yoga. 


If Moon gets more than 3 bindus and occupies a quadrant or trine from Jupiter, the person will have 
plenty of wealth, land and other comforts. 


A person born in Kesari yoga will be endowed with both wealth and happiness if Jupiter occupies the 
navamsa of Moon with 5 or more bindus. In this rule, readers would appreciate that the occupation of Moon’s 


navamsaby Jupiter involves two special qualities 


> Moon is very friendly to Jupiter 
> Jupiter gets exalted in the navamsa of Moon. 


Please note that a planet can be exalted in own house, friendly house or even in an enemy’s house. For 


example: 


¥ Venus is exalted in Pisces — owned by Jupiter, its enemy. The same principle holds good for Mars. 
¥ Mercury is exalted in Virgo, its own house. 
¥ Sun is exalted in the house of its friend Mars. Same is true of Jupiter also. 


In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga if the lord of the Rasi occupied by Jupiter is exalted or is in his own house, 
endowed with 5 or more bindus, one becomes prominent among rulers. 


If the sign — dispositor of Jupiter is in a quadrant or trine with 4 or more bindus in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga, 


the person becomes rich and fortunate in family life. 


THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
PART-16 
BY Dr. E.S NEELAKANTAN 


In our previous write-up on Jupiter, we discussed some of the features such 
as Raja yoga, Sarala yoga, Gaja Kesari yoga and Raja yoga bhanga with 
special reference to the Ashtakavarga chart. We continue the discussion and 


in this article, we will proceed to understand its intricacies in greater detail. 


We know that Jupiter and Venus are enemies even though both are benefics. 
Similarly Jupiter and Mercury are also enemies even though both are 
benefics. Please note that enmity between planets is not comparable to the 
concepts of friendship and enmity, as we all know in our day-to-day lives. 
As far as we are concerned, if we stand to benefit or profit through someone, 


automatically he is our friend, whether or not he is a good person. 


In this context, I wish to cite an example from Ramayana. Lord Rama chose 
to have an alliance with Sugriva, who was being oppressed by his own 
brother Vali. Rama chose to kill Vali and joined hands with Sugriva in his 
search for Sita. When Vali was pierced by the arrow from Lord Rama, he 
was about to die but before that he had a long argument with Lord Rama. 
Vali had so much power that he could have easily retrieved Sita from 
Lanka,he being more powerful than the demon king Ravana.. Sugriva was 
weak compared to Vali. Then why did Rama choose to have an alliance with 
Sugriva rather than with Vali? Please recollect the words of Sri Krishna in 
Bhagwad Gita. “In order to protect Dharma and to annihilate Adharma, I am 


born from time to time’(...Sambhavami Yuge Yuge). Sri Rama was an 


incarnation of Lord Vishnu. The very purpose of the Avatar was to uphold 
Dharma. So, Sri Rama for the sake of petty personal gains could have sided 
with Vali. But in order to uphold Dharma, he sided with the good-natured 
Sugriva and killed Vali, thus upholding the divine will of destroying 
Adharma. 


Coming to our discussion, Jupiter is an enemy of Venus because their 
natures are in conflict. Jupiter stands for inner purity; Venus stands for 
sensual pleasures. Jupiter reflects happiness; Venus reflects pleasures. 
Jupiter indicates selflessness; Venus indicates selfishness. Jupiter is a Deva 


guru; Venus is an Asura guru. 


Another paradox in astrology needs explanation here. We know that Sun and 
Saturn are enemies. So our immediate conclusion is this: Sun-Saturn 
conjunction is bad. Sun is Atmakaraka and Saturn is Dukkakaraka or giver 
of grief. So soul being represented by Sun is aggrieved by conjunction of 
Saturn with Sun. Now bring a contrary rule into the picture-conjunction of 
lord of 4 with lord of 9 is a Parasari Raja yoga. So the complexion changes 
totally here for Taurus Ascendant. Both Sun and Saturn forget their 
traditional rivalry when invested with their present portfolio and conjoin to 
bring about a Raja yoga. Not very different from what we read and hear 
about Indian politics. Two rival political parties fight an election and when 
there is a situation where no party gets an absolute majority, the rivals even 
come together to form a coalition government. It is important to note that 
what matters here is that eventhough Sun and Saturn are natural malefics, in 
a situation like what we discussed just now, they transform themselves into 


functional benefics. So each planet has two facets-one a natural one and 


another a functional one. In the whole of predictive astrology, 80% of 
predictions are made taking into account the functional role of planets rather 


than their natural role. 


While judging the 5" house for progeny four features are relevant. 
1. 5" house is occupied by malefics. 
2. 5" house contains less than 25 bindus in Samudaya Ashtakavarga. 
3. 5" house falls in an even sign. 


4. Moon occupies an even sign. 


Out of the four defects indicated above: 
(a) If one is present, reason for progeny is uterine problem. 
(b) If there are two defects, affliction to deity is the problem. 
(c) If there are three,both the causes, (a) as well as (b) are present. 
(d)If all four defects are present, one will have no issues at all, even if 


propitiatory rites are performed. 


In a Horary chart, one must ascertain the position of Gulika as well as trinal 
signs of Gulika. Take the case of the three planets, Sun, Moon and Jupiter 
and ascertain which of the three has maximum number of bindus in this 
Gulika rasi. Whenever that planet transits Gulika rasi or its trines, a child 
will be born. Consider the Horary lagna, Horary navamsa lagna and its trines 
in order to find out which of these houses has the maximum number of 
bindus in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga. Birth of a child takes place when Jupiter 


transits that sign. 


In order to become a king, two rules have been suggested by the learned 
authors. 

(1)Venus should be in a quadrant from Jupiter and Jupiter should be in a 
quadrant from lagna. In other words, both Jupiter and Venus should be 
placed in quadrants from lagna. 


(11) Venus and Jupiter should either be in a conjunction or in opposition. 


Note that the second rule is subservient to the first rule. In other words, 
when the second rule is satisfied the first rule is automatically taken care of, 
while the converse is not true. For these conditions to generate Raja yoga, 


Jupiter should be associated with four or more bindus. 


Some people are generally dull-witted and also unlucky. What is the reason? 
Ashtakavarga holds the clue. 

(a) Lagna occupied by a weak lagna lord. 

(b) Lagna associated with three or less bindus. 

(c) Jupiter in 6 or 8. 
If all these conditions are cumulatively satisfied, one is both a dullard and 


unlucky. 


Some people suffer at the hands of children or grandchildren. How to know 
the root cause? Ashtakavarga comes to our rescue. If there is an interchange 
of houses between lords of 5 and 8, without the saving grace of Jupiter’s 


aspect, one will suffer at the hands of children and grandchildren 


Now we will take a look at a couple of horoscopes to see how the rules 


apply in practice. 


Chart 1 belongs to Late Shri Brahmananda Reddi who was a Cabinet 
minister under the former Prime Minister Late Smt Indira Gandhi.Both 
Venus and Jupiter join the 7 house,a quadrant thereby aspecting the 
lagna.Please note that Jupiter gets 5 bindus.This yoga elevated the status of 


the native to that of a cabinet minister. 


Chart 2 belongs to V.Shantaram (18 November 1901 - 30 October 1990) 
the doyen of the tinselworld of yesteryears.The Jupiter- Venus conjunction 
in Lagna is prominent with Jupiter obtaining 4 bindus. He was praised by 
Charlie Chaplin for his Marathi film Manoos . Charlie Chaplin reportedly 
liked the film very much. He was awarded the Indian film industry's highest 
award, the Dadasaheb Phalke award in 1985 and the Padma Vibhushan in 
1992. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
PART — 17 


By Dr. E.S. Neelakantan 


We just now discussed some of the important features in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga such as the 
yogas involving Venus and Jupiter and their role in elevating a person to fame and power. In 
support of this theory we discussed the charts of Shri. Brahmananda Reddi and Shri. 
Shantaram. | hope, all of you, who read this column regularly would have verified this theory by 
applying the rules discussed herein with charts of people whom you know or those which you 
have with you in your file. With these introductory remarks, we will proceed to discuss the 
intricacies of Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga in greater detail. 


If you read books on Astrology in Sanskrit, you will come across terms like “Putrarishtam’”, 
“Putraklesham”, and “Putranashtam” etc. What is the meaning of “Putranashtam”? Loss of a 
child. How? Invariably through the death of the child. This is how we understand Astrology. But 
please note that in every sentence, it is not the literal meaning alone that counts. | wish to cite 
the example of a short story by Leo Tolstoy titled “God sees the truth but waits”, here and then 
explain my view. 


A person by name Semyonich was going to bazaar. Some people who had first murdered a 
person put the knife in Semyonich’s bag without his knowledge and ran away. The police 
searched the bag and concluded him to be the culprit and exiled him to Siberia. After a very 
long period, the real culprit confesses his crime to the police, who ordered the release of 
Semyonich, who is languishing in jail. Now Leo Tolstoy brings the story to an end with an 
enigmatic observation: “By the time the order for the release came, the poor old man was 
already dead”. This sentence has to be understood carefully. If a prisoner is dead, nobody is 
going to serve an order for release. As well the file itself may be closed. What this means is that 
the person is as good as dead — a living corpse, if we may say so. 


“Putranashtam” — as these textbooks say need not mean the child is dead. The child is as good 
as lost. | don’t need to give here an exhaustive list of circumstances where such a possibility 
arises. Today you need to just open the newspaper and you will immediately see an 
advertisement for a senior citizen home. | don’t mean to say that all people living in senior 
citizen homes are not looked after by their children. But in a majority of cases, these are 
people, who for some reason or the other have no one to count as family members or who for 
some other reason have chosen to spend their last days in a place away from their original 
homes. The next astrological rule we are going to discuss deals with loss of children. Hence | 


decided to discuss this point in greater detail so that the astrologer in the making does not 
jump to wrong conclusions on seeing a chart. 


The person will lose as many children as there are bindus in the 3 or 5 house from Jupiter 
provided Jupiter is in the 6, 8" or 12™ house from lagna. Needless to say, Jupiter is 
Putrakaraka. So is the Karaka in an evil house bad by itself? Please note that for Libra lagna, 
Jupiter is a functional malefic. Let us assume Jupiter is in Pisces. As the lord of 6 is in the 6M 
house, it is highly beneficial in a functional sense. But if we were to understand the “divine 
grace” available to that person, Jupiter in 6 would be a drawback, eventhough as lord of 6 in 6, 
it generates Harsha yoga. Please note that the natural qualities of a planet are different from its 
functional qualities. 


Birth of an illustrious and virtuous son is an event eagerly awaited in each and every family. 
Such an event is bound to happen in the life of a person provided comeption takes place under 
the following conditions: 


1) Jupiter should not be combust. 

2) It should occupy its own house. 

3) It should have more than 5 bindus. 

4) It should occupy the vargas of male planets. 

5) It should either be in conjunct or in benefic or get aspected by a benefic. 
6) Jupiter should be in lagna. 


We need to discuss the above rule in detail for gaining more insight into this rule. The first point 
is very easy to understand. A combusted planet is similar to a debilitated planet in giving 
effects. Even if that planet is a benefic, combustion will take away its merits. Take the case of a 
principal of a college. During admission season, there will be a queue in front if his office. But 
after retirement, the same person loses importance. The combusted planet is like a retired 
principal — it has no powers. Please note that | mean no offence while giving this analogy — it is 
just to enable the student to grasp the subject better. An average student follows the example 
of a teacher, headmaster or principal, better than anything else. The second point refers to 
occupation of own house by Jupiter — this means Jupiter should be in Sagittarius or Pisces. The 
third rule is that it should obtain five or more bindus. Please refer to our previous write-up 
about the concept of “critical point”. A planet should have a minimum residential strength in a 
house to perform its role. Concepts such as Dikbala, Chestabala, Sthanabala etc. all centre 
around this principle. Imagine that for Capricorn lagna, Venus is in Virgo. As the Yogakaraka 
planet is in 9, one cannot ask for anything better. But Venus in Virgo will only be a helpless 


spectator. It is considerably weak in Virgo. The saving grace can come about when Mercury 
joins Venus in Virgo or Venus occupies Pisces in Navamsa or if in any other way Neerhabhanga 
is obtained. So this mention about Jupiter obtaining 5 bindus or more is just one more area 
where Jupiter is strengthened. The fourth point is Jupiter should occupy the varga of male 
planets. Please note that Jupiter by itself is a male planet. So the other two male planets are 
Sun and Mars. Our Rishis were the first to detect a one-to-one correlation between movement 
of heavenly bodies and occurrence of terrestrial affairs. So birth of a male child bears a very 
close link with the influence of male planets. For the sake of clarity, let us now understand the 
sex of planets 


TABLE 1 
MALE Sun, Mars , Jupiter 
FEMALE Moon, Venus 
EUNUCH Mercury, Saturn 


One might wonder if the influence of Saturn or Mercury produces birth of eunuchs. But that is 
not necessarily true. It can also produce twin births. The concept of “eunuch” in Astrology 
needs to be carefully understood. Generally speaking, a eunuch is a person who is neither man 
nor woman. (Example: Sikhandin in Mahabharata) But in Astrology, Mercury and Saturn are 
planets who bear qualities of both male and female. Let us take the quality of “Intelligence”. 
Intelligence is a quality possessed by certain men and certain women. Sex has no role to play in 
Intelligence. “Intelligence” is governed by Mercury. “Grief” knows no sex. It is represented by 
Saturn. “Chivalry” is a masculine quality — it is represented by Mars. So Mars is designated as a 
male planet only. “Beauty” is essentially feminine. It is represented by Venus. | hope this 
concept is now made abundantly clear from the examples discussed so far. 


The fifth point is that Jupiter should either be conjunct a benefic or be aspected by a benefic. 
There is an enactment called “General Clauses Act”. The word “Singular” is defined in that act. 
The definition is “Singular” includes “Plural”. When we say Jupiter should be associated with a 
benefic, it can also mean two benefics are associated with Jupiter or two benefics aspect 
Jupiter. If you read “Phaladeepika” of Mantreswara carefully, you will find that Chapter 7 of the 
book deals exclusively with Raja yogas or yogas for becoming a king. | would advise the diligent 
student of Astrology to understand verse 21 of chapter 7 in Phaladeepika in a comprehensive 
manner. What this verse states is that even a single planet in exaltation is capable of elevating a 
person to the status of a king provided the said planet is aspected by a friendly planet. The crux 
of the issue is the aspect of the friendly planet. If this aspect is not there, the planet in 
exaltation will not become a source for Raja yoga. In cricket you may come across a situation 
when one batsman has crossed ninety and the non-striker is the last batsman at the crease. If 


the first batsman should hit a century, the other batsman should atleast defend his wicket, if 
not hit some runs. Should that batsman get out, the first man automatically loses the chance of 
hitting a century. So what is the second batsman’s role? Help the first batsman hit a century by 
defending his wicket. This example needs to be applied to the rule stated by Mantreswara in 
Phaladeepika. 


The planet in exaltation is the planet elevating the person to a royal position. The second planet 
by virtue of being the former’s friend is now a formidable ally in this combination. Once this 
planet aspects the exalted planet, the potential force gets converted into a kinetic one, thereby 
activating the process of generating a Raja yoga. 


Last but not the least, “Jupiter should be in lagna”. Though this rule appears simple, it is 
pregnant with meaning. When Jupiter is in lagna, it aspects two vital houses namely the 5th 
house of Poorvapunya and the 9"" house, which is the house of good fortune. Further a planet 
in lagna carries directional strength or Digbala. Jupiter in lagna throws a protective sheath on 
lagna. The 5"" house rules progeny and the 9"" house also has a bearing on progeny by invoking 
the “Bharat Bhavam” concept. Jupiter is also the karaka planet for the fifth house. When all 
these rules cumulatively apply to a single horoscope, birth of a virtuous son becomes a 
mathematical certainty. 


Each of the six rules is important in its own way. But in practice, one may not see a chart where 
the rule occurs verbatim. In such charts, we may say that the rule is partially satisfied. Even if 
the rule is partially satisfied, possibility of the predicted result exists. It is here that free-will 
comes into play. An imperfect destiny can be rendered perfect by a strong action which is 
nothing but free-will. 


For instance if a boy’s chart shows some promise for education, by choosing an appropriate 
Muhurtha for “Vidyaramba”, the boy is assured of success in education. For begetting progeny, 
various remedial measures exist. Even choosing a good Muhurtha for begetting a child is also a 
powerful remedial measure to fulfil the promise of Astrology. Results will accrue with certainty 
if a person shown in the natal chart is fully supported by conscious exercise of free-will. 


THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
PART - 18 
BY DR. E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


In the previous article we saw the various points related to Jupiter’s 
Ashtakavarga and their impact on predictive astrology. Now we will proceed to 
discuss its intricacies in greater detail. 


Everybody in today’s world wants to lead a prestigious life. But what is the 
meaning of prestige in today’s life? False prestige. Before India’s independence, 
fighting for India’s freedom from British rule was a sign of prestige. Gandhiji, 
Nehruji and Subash Chandra Bose were icons. It was a matter of pride and prestige 
to be associated with them. Today’s prestige is nothing but watching the latest 
movies in the world class malls which have come up, dining in luxury hotels and 
beach resorts, watching IPL matches in stadium and driving latest cars. Before we 
discuss astrological connotations of “Prestige”, I thought we should get the meaning 
of ‘True Prestige’ and ‘False Prestige”’ clarified. 


When the sign dispositor of the 5" lord conjoins Jupiter a son who will 
ennoble family prestige will be born provided the said plant obtains more than 4 
bindus in the Ashtakavarga chart of Jupiter. If the said plant is in debilitation with 
1 to 3 bindus, the son will prove treacherous to his father. 


This verse once again highlights the role of bindus in predictive Astrology. 
Take the above verse and interpret it without the application of bindus. The sign 
dispositor of 5" lord in conjunction with Putrakaraka will give rise to birth of 
children. But is there not a world of difference between a son who brings lasting 
fame to one’s own family and a worthless son? Actually the difference is equal to 
the difference between heaven and hell. 


This is why we need to reckon Ashtakavarga principles each time. .Without 
the aid of Ashtakavarga,predictive Astrology is nothing short of a gamble. The 
cutting edge of scientific Astrology will prove to be that of a blunt knife when 
predictions are made, without consideration of Ashtakavarga principles. Astrology 
as practised in India today, seldom takes into account the Ashtakavarga chart, 
which is why the likelihood of a prediction going the wrong way is very high. 


We now proceed to discuss the next rule. If the lord of 5" house is associated 
with a malefic and Jupiter associated with 3 bindus is hemmed between malefics, a 
son who is evil minded and also a disgrace to the family will be born. We need to 
understand the significance of a planet hemmed between malefics. How do planets 
give their effects? Through vibrations. 


Take this example — Saturn is in Aries, Jupiter is in Taurus and Mars is in 
Gemini. This is a case of Jupiter getting hemmed between malefics. The benefic rays 
of Jupiter have no exit route. The malefic vibrations of Mars and Saturn in adjacent 
houses counteract the benefic influence of Jupiter and it gets choked. Such a planet 
has no power to do any good. 


I wish to cite one example here. There was a debate — if there is a fight 
between a crocodile and a rhinoceros, who would win? Prima facie, a rhinoceros is a 
powerful animal and it should win. But a little bit of introspection would yield 
newer and startling dimensions. Basically a rhinoceros is a mammal whereas a 
crocodile is a reptile. The correct answer to this query would depend on where the 
fight takes place? If it is on land, the rhinoceros would win. If it is in water, the 
crocodile would win. Please note that a crocodile in water is far more powerful than 
a crocodile in land. 


Applying this to our own discussion, Jupiter is the most powerful of all 
planets in warding off evil. When hemmed between malefics, it is comparable to a 
crocodile on land — utterly powerless. The three bindus of Jupiter is like rubbing 
salt on wounds -— it aggravates its weakness. What is the result? Birth of a son, who 
is evil-minded and a scourge to the family. 


When Saturn passes through a sign, which in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga, has 
the least number of bindus, the person may meet with afflictions, provided that 
house is not aspected by Jupiter in the natal chart. 


This is a very interesting rule and would merit a protracted discussion on the 
subject. Saturn is a dukka karaka. So it will adversely affect the fortunes of that 
house it occupies in chart. The trines are the 5" and 9"". Usually there is an invisible 
link between 1, 5 and 9. Lagna is the physical body as also the egoic self, 5" is 
Poorvapunya or merits of good deeds performed earlier, 9 is good fortune. So 
Saturn in a house in transit not only affects that particular house but also the trinal 
houses of that house. 


Now what is very important is the second limb of the rule which carries out 
the exception to the rule. The house which is aspected by Jupiter is immune to the 
adverse effects of Saturn in transit. Please note that a very important doctrine is 
established here, which is the link between Natal chart and Gochara chart. There is 
a link between a planet in a natal chart and another planet in Gochara. Let us say a 
person is 40 years old, who has Jupiter in 2" house in birth chart. Let us say, 
Saturn is in the 8" in transit. What this rule says is that the effects of Saturn in 8" in 
transit are effectively neutralized by the aspect of Jupiter on the 8" house in the 
natal chart. No doubt, that was forty years back, whereas Saturn is in the 8" at 
present. Never mind, the cancellation rule will apply. 


Auspicious ceremonies are eagerly looked forward to in each and every house. 
Transits of Sun over houses, where the least number of bindus are obtained in 


Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga are not suitable for celebration of such functions. This is a 
rule which has considerable value in today’s set-up where we need to plan at least 
six months in advance for functions such as marriage. 


Take the lords of 9 and 10" houses and J upiter. Let us say they are associated with 
8 or bindus. Consider their sign dispositors. If all of them are powerful, then the 
person will be exceptionally lucky and blessed with everything. In some cases the 
father of a person is luckier. (The other way of putting it is the son is unlucky 
compared to the father) 

a) Lord of lagna is in the 2" or 9™ house. 

b) Jupiter is in a quadrant from lagna with 5 bindus. 


If both (a) and (b) are cumulatively satisfied the father of the child is luckier. 


(a) Lord of the 9" house and Jupiter occupy quadrants or they are exalted or 
they occupy their own house. 

(b) Both the above mentioned planets are associated with 5 or more bindus in 
Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga. 


If both these conditions are cumulatively satisfied the person becomes either a king 
or a judge. Please note that in ancient times the king also dispensed with justice. In 
order to become a king one should have a very good knowledge of law and justice. 
When we say “either a king or a judge”, obviously we are stating the rule as it would 
appear in contemporary society. 


With these comments, I bring this edition of Ashtakavarga to a close. Incidentally 
this will be the final write-up on Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga. We have discussed rules 
relating to Jupiter in Ashtakavarga in detail. In our next write-up, we will take-up 
the Ashtakavarga of Venus for scrutiny. 


THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
PART — 19 


By Dr. E.S. Neelakantan 
Introduction 


We just now completed our discussion on the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter. From Jupiter we now 
move on to Venus. One of the most important planets in the planetary hierarchy is the Venus. 


What Venus stands for? 


Mantreswara in his magnum opus, “Phaladeepika” has given an exhaustive list of matters which 
come under the purview of Venus. 


Wealth 

Vehicles 

Clothes 

Ornaments 

Hidden wealth 
Dance, drama, music 
Wife 

Pleasure 


£000 Sh OO Be tO Ss 


Perfumes or scents 
10. Flowers 

11. Sexual union 
12. Couch 

13. House 

14. Prosperity 

15. Poetry 

16. Sex and women 
17. Sports 

18. Lust 

19. Ministership 
20. Politeness 

21. Marriage 

22. Festivity 


Venus is the Karaka planet for the 7" house. The 3 house along with the 7" and 11" houses 
rule over the “Kama” triangle. Dharma,Artha, Kama and Moksha are the four Vedic ends of life. 


The lagna, along with the 5" and 9°" rule the “Dharma” triangle. By “Kama” we mean the 
desires of a human being, which is possible of fulfillment in this world. If we look at the 22 
items ruled by Venus, the predominant theme is fulfillment of desire and things required for 
the same. 


Venus, when afflicted would lead to a person living a discontented life. Venus with Mars can 
lead to an immoral life especially with reference to marriage. The same is the case when Venus 
conjoins Saturn. Hence an unafflicted Venus is a boon for every individual. 


When Venus occupies a quadrant, in exaltation or if placed in Taurus or Libra leads to an 
auspicious yoga known as Malavya yoga. Incidentally this happens to be one of the 
Mahapurusha yogas extolled in the ancient textbooks on Astrology. The faculty of enjoyment 
should be used sparingly — this is the Ayurvedic view of life. A person born with Malavya yoga 
will be endowed with gift of enjoyment of life without abuse of the faculty of enjoyment. Such 
people ought to be treated as role models of society. 


When Venus transits over a house with certain number of bindus, it gives different effects: (as 
tabulated below) 


No. of Effects 
bindus 
8 One gets enjoyment, good dress, women, sweet smelling flowers, varieties of 


eatables, etc. 


Ornaments, precious stones 


Meeting beloved wife 


Contact with friends 


Mixed effects 


Enmity 


Sickness, degradation 


Fear from disease through phlegm, water, poison 


OP INIWIBI IMI OAIN 


Calamities 


A cursory look at the table above would reveal that when Venus transits houses with more 
number of bindus, it invariably gives good effects especially on matters related to “Kama” 
(desire) which we discussed earlier. 


Many people look forward eagerly to advent of Venus dasha in their lives. It is only some who 
have the good fortune to have this in the peak of their lives. When Venus dasha is on, the 
effects would be maximumwhen Venus is in Libra, Pisces and Taurus while its effect would be 
negligible when Venus transits Virgo. As the saying goes: “Make hay while the sun shines”- one 


should enjoy life to the fullest possible extent when Venus dasha is in progress. | would slightly 
alter the adage and say — “Make hay while Venus shines”. 


Without considering the placement of Venus in an individual’s chart, one should not make 
sweeping predictions about Venus. As we all know the natural qualities of a planet get 
conditioned by its placement in an individual’s chart. It is this functional role that will come to 
pass when Venus dasha is on. If located in own house or getting the Yoga karaka status, Venus 
would deliver excellent results; else it would just be mediocre. Proper weightage should be 
given to all the factors influencing Venus before pronouncing a verdict on its role in an 
individual’s chart. In augmenting the role of Venus, the Rasi-sign dispositor as well as Navamsa 
sign-dispositor play a significant part. 


To understand the effect of a powerfully placed Venus let us take up the horoscope of the 
noted Hollywood Superstar of yesteryears,Gregory Peck as a case study. 


In the chart of Gregory Peck Venus as Lagna lord is placed in the Lagna itself — a very powerful 
MalavyaYoga.It is also exalted in the two important divisional charts namely Navamsa and 
dasamsa.WhileNavamsa is the most important among all divisional charts,dasamsa holds the 
key to Professional success.Venus secures 5 bindus in its Ashtakavargachart.Needless to 
say,Venus lifted Gregory Peck to dizzy heights in his profession. 


Peck was nominated for five Academy Awards, winning once. He was nominated for The Keys 
of the Kingdom (1945), The Yearling (1946), Gentleman's Agreement (1947) and Twelve 
O'Clock High (1949). He won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Atticus Finch in 
the 1962 film To Kill a Mockingbird. In 1968 he received the Academy's Jean Hersholt 
Humanitarian Award.Peck also received many Golden Globe awards.. He received the Cecil B. 
DeMille Award in 196. 


In 1969 US President Lyndon Johnson honored Peck with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, 
the nation's highest civilian honor. In 1971 the Screen Actors Guild presented Peck with the SAG 
Life Achievement Award. In 1989 the American Film Institute gave Peck the AFI Life 
Achievement Award. He received the Crystal Globe award for outstanding artistic contribution 
to world cinema in 1996. 


In 1986 Peck was honored alongside actress Gene Tierney with the first Donostia Lifetime 
Achievement Award at the San Sebastian Film Festival Spain ,for their body of work. 


In 1998 he was awarded the National Medal of Arts. 


On April 28, 2011, a ceremony was held in Beverly Hills, California celebrating the first day of 
issue of a U.S. postage stamp commemorating Peck. The stamp is the 17th commemorative 
stamp in the Legends of Hollywood series. 


One gains lasting name and fame when the Lagna is rendered strong.Gregory Peck’s chart is a 
wonderful illustration of this dictum 


THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 


PART —20 


By Dr.E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


In our previous article, we got a feel of overall indications of Venus. In this edition, 
we will look at the propensities of Venus in greater detail. 


Transit of Venus 


Generally we hear everyone talking about the transits of Saturn and Jupiter and to 
a lesser extent the transits of Rahu and Ketu. But one does not hear anyone 
talking about the effects of transits of other planets. Is it because they are 
insignificant? Is it because their impact in predictive Astrology is less? The answer 
to both these queries is “No”. The transit of each planet has some significance. 


Why people seem to pay attention to the transits of Jupiter and Saturn or for 
that matter Rahu and Ketu, could be due to the fact that being slow-moving 
planets, their transits are infrequent. Pradosham comes twice a month, whereas 
Diwali comes once in a year- So Diwali is celebrated with more gusto than 
pradosham. Of course, Mahasivarathri is also a pradosham day and again the 
earlier argument holds good- it comes only once in a year and therefore given 
more importance. 


In Gochara the effect of Venus transiting over twelve houses is as follows: 


Janma Rasi All kinds of enjoyments 
2 Financial gains 
3 Prosperity 
4 Happiness and association with friends. 
5 Begetting Children 
6 Misery 


7 Trouble to wife 


8 Wealth 


9 Happiness 

10 Disputes 

11 Safety and protection 
12 Acquisition of wealth. 


| wish to place a few generalizations upon reading the Table above. Venus yields 
bad results while transiting houses 6,7,and10.It yields good results in the 
remaining houses. Conversely Moon yields good results in houses 6,7and 10. 
Students can read the Gochara effects of Moon and understand for themselves 
the astrological peculiarities of Moon and Venus in Gochara. 


When Venus transits over a house it may have certain number of bindus. It can 
be zero, one or for that matter even eight. 


When Venus transits over a bhava which is endowed with a bindu, the following 
results accrue to the native: 


- One’s status and respect in government service are enhanced. 
- He begets a daughter as an offspring. 

- Enjoys bodily comforts and longevity. 

- Takes active part in sports. 

- Acquires wide knowledge. 

- Attains success. 

- Acquires wealth. 


- Happiness and overall welfare accrue. 


- Let us analyse these results in detail now. If you go through the areas 
where positive results are obtained, one can come to some kind of an 
understanding about what Venus stands for. 


Success or respect in government service is a yardstick to measure the clout 
of a person. To be honored by the king is the greatest achievement even 
today. This is why a person who obtains Bharat Ratna or Dada Saheb 
Phalke award gets wide recognition in media or in society. 


The award by itself may not be important but it gives rise to prestige. 
Prestige is something which only Venus can confer. Getting a daughter is 
also an auspicious event but here Venus is a feminine planet as also karaka 
planet of 7" house . 7 houses rules over fecundity. Again, one gains wide 
knowledge because Venus rules over shastras. Sports is an activity for 
enjoyment or pleasure. There are certain sports or games which are 
undertaken for pleasure. Examples are golf and scuba diving. Venus rules 
over these sporting areas. 


When transiting a bhava which is devoid of a bindu, 
Venus gives the following results 
-Troubles 
-Loss of wealth through enemies. 
-Affliction to wife 
-Quarrels 
-Loss of landed property 
-Misery 
-Aberration of mind 
-Fall from a horse 
-Obstacles in journeys. 
We will analyse the above results in detail now. 


Loss of wealth or landed property is indicated because by itself there are 
lots of comforts , only money can buy. So to make one unhappy, the best 
course is to deprive one of money. Loss of wealth leads to insecurity which 
in turn leads to worry leading to grief. 


In olden times people used to travel on horseback but the same rule today 
can be construed as problems relating to vehicles. 


Misery is nothing but absence of happiness. There is a concept which says 
Darkness is also a form of light. Light at zero density is called darkness. So 
happiness at a very minimal level could be termed as Misery. 


When Venus passes through a house having the highest number of bindus, 
the following activities can be performed and if started excellent results will 
accrue. 


1. One should acquire beds and other accessories relating to bedroom. 
2. One should start learning music. 

3. Performance of marriage should be undertaken. 

4. Dress and other accessories could be bought. 


| wish to dwell in detail on the above rules. Generally we understand 
Astrology only as a fatalistic doctrine. If Rishis wanted it to be so, then 
wherefrom the branch called “Muhurtha” was conceived? Fate is nothing 
but operation of Prarabhda Karma. Freewill is nothing but operation of 
Kriyaman Karma. 


Freewill can always be applied to overcome or negate the effects of fate. In 
fact, Horoscope matching is nothing but employment of freewill to 
overcome fate. If both boy and the girl have Mars in the 7" house, the 
Manglik dosha is equal and if you get them married , they will lead a happy 
and prosperous life. So, ‘Muhurtha” is one key area we need to utilize more 
in order to create a happy life for everyone. 


Music is “gandarva vidya”- it comes under the purview of venus. Dress 
is animportant area relatable to venus. When Eskimos wear a dress , they 
do so to protect themselves from cold. But you see ladies in a marriage 
auditorium on a hot summer day in silk saris —so you can clearly 
understand that “dress” is not just for protection from cold, but an 
important sign of prestige. For women in general it is a key area of passion 
— and therefore ruled by Venus. THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION 
Part -21 
By Dr. E.S.NNEELAKANTAN 
Introduction 


We have now looked at the preliminary features of Venus at an 
Ashtakavarga level. We will now dwell on the same in greater detail. 


The number of wives a person will have will correspond to the number 
of bindus that remain in the following houses after the appropriate 
reduction is made according to Ashtakavarga rules. 


_ House occupied by lord of 7" from Venus. 
- House occupied by lord of 9" from Moon. 
- House occupied by lord of 9" from lagna. 
- The exaltation house of 7" lord. 
- Debilitation House of 7" lord. 


After understanding this rule the budding astrologer should not jump 
to conclusions. 

There is one corollary to the rule. If the 7" lord is strong, choose the 
maximum figure out of the six results we are going to get .If the 7” 
lord is weak, choose the least figure. 

Let us say we get four. The budding astrologer is going to tell the 
client, “You will have four wives”. 

Here restraint is required . These rules were coined at a time when 
polygamy was order of the day. Kings used to have a harem, where all 
his spouses used to reside in perfect harmony . But times have 
changed. Lord Rama set up a personal example by marrying Sita and 
being devoted to her alone all through his life. We are now following 
Rama’s example only. 


The need of the hour is to interpret astrology by using common sense 
rather than textbook knowledge. 


If Mercury occupies the 7" house, one cannot infer that the spouse 
will have a greenish appearance. One should say that the spouse 
under this condition will be a person with wide knowledge and 
speaking skills. That Mercury represents green colour would be 
immaterial in this context. 


The order of the day is Monogamy and not polygamy . So the above 
rule cannot be applied verbatim ignoring the context. 

Please note that we are discussing this subject according to Indian 
conditions. Let us assume that the chart belongs to an American. The 
social norm in USA is quite different from that of India. So taking into 
consideration the person’s age, background etc. one has to furnish a 
reply after taking the Ashtakavarga factors into account. 

When we look at Astrology as a profession , one key area of 
consultancy is horoscope matching. While matching two horoscopes 
what does the astrologer do and what is he supposed to do? 

Given a set of horoscopes, he selects those charts which will benefit 
the couple by way of a mutually beneficial martial relationship. It is 
said that the power of a horoscope can be enhanced by bringing it 
together with another horoscope by way of partnership, marriage or 
alliance. Take the case of Triphala in Ayurveda . Triphala is a drug 
prepared by mixing Amalaki, Haritaki, and Vibhitaki. (Amalaki is 
nothing but Indian Gooseberry). What Triphala does these three 
cannot do when consumed individually. Horoscope matching 
produces harmonious families. Please note that the greatest strong 
point of Indian Culture is Family relationship. Nowhere else in the 
world you can find family ties as you see in India. Credit for this 
should go to our astrologers. 


Ashtakavarga comes to our rescue when we start looking out for a 
suitable match for a boy. 

First construct the Ashtakavarga table of Venus in the boy’s chart. 
Also construct the Moon’s Ashtakavarga chart and the Samudaya 
Ashtakavarga chart. 


1) Boy’s Moon’s Ashtakavarga 
Identify the house which has maximum number of bindus. (a) 
2) Boy’s Samudaya Ashtakavarga 
Identify the house which has maximum number of bindus(b) 
3) Boy’s Venus Ashtakavarga 
From Venus identify the 7" lord and find out houses which have 
at least one bindu contributed by that planet.(c) 


Now check where the Moon is placed in the girl’s chart. If that house 
happens to be (a), (b) or (c) then it is very auspicious. 


Now this brings us to another concept called “Rina raniya bhava’ . 
This means that there should be same Karmic link between a boy and 
a girl to become husband and wife. The Sai baba of Shirdi used to say 


“Unless willed by the Almighty, even a dog will not cross your path.” 
I see a lot of Matrimonial advertisements containing various details 
such as height, weight, salary, preferences etc. It is very difficult to 
differentiate between a person furnishing the bio-data for a job and 
another one furnishing bio-data for marriage. If you don’t like a job 
you can resign, join another company. In marriage, if the relationship 
breaks, it is very difficult to find an alternative . My personal opinion 
is that in marriage, astrology should be accorded top priority and all 
other factors considered secondary. 

Venus is the Karaka planet for marriage. So it is very important to 
have an unblemished Venus in both the charts to ensure happy married 
life. 

Another good combination to have would be Venus aspected by 
Jupiter. Please note that when malefics like Saturn or Mars get the 
aspect of Jupiter, their evil tendencies are curbed and they become 
beneficial. 

Venus indicates matters such as love, romance ,happiness in 
marriage, friendship and sensual pleasures. When Venus gets aspected 
by Jupiter , whatever negative features might be there in Venus, is 
annulled and it becomes auspicious. 

I would like the reader to take note of the fact that inter se, Venus and 
Jupiter are enemies. But that enmity will not alter the results indicated 
above. Mantreswara in Phaladeepika gives one rule which might 
militate against common sense but is supposed to be true. 

The rule is this : If Mars and Saturn conjoin in the 7" house for a 
person in Capricorn Ascendant, the wife of that person will be chaste, 
fortunate and beautiful(vide Phaladeepika , chapter 10 verse 3). 


This rule is really bemusing . Mars is a malefic and becomes even 
more malefic when in conjunction with Saturn . Further Mars is in 
debilitation . Saturn is an enemy of Moon and therefore Saturn in 
Cancer is badly placed. Mars in 7 can generate Kuja dosha. So , with 
such rampant negative features coupled with the fact that Mars- 
Saturn combination is inauspicious in general,what is the justification 
for the auspicious results mentioned by the author? . We will discuss 
this in our next article on Ashtakavaga . 

The End. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION — PART 22 


By Dr. E. S. Neelakantan 


We left the last session with a riddle: How can two inimical planets, Mars 
and Saturn, prove to be beneficial, when they are in 7" house for Capricorn 
Ascendant? We start this query and then proceed with our discussion on the 
role of Venus in Ashtakavarga. 


We know that Mars is debilitated in Cancer and exalted in Capricorn. 
Saturn is the lord of Capricorn. When the exaltation lord of a debilitated 
planet conjoins it in a quadrant, we have the neecha — bhanga raja yoga. So 
the conjunction of Mars with Saturn in the 7" for Capricorn as Ascendant is 
a neecha — bhanga raja yoga. This is perhaps why Mantreswara in 
Phaladeepika says that under this combination, a person will be blessed with 
a chaste and fortunate wife. If you go through all books on Astrology, this is 
perhaps the only rule which gives a beneficial interpretation to Mars — 
Saturn combination. 


When the 7” house from Janma lagna (in the Ashtakavarga of Venus) 
has a bindu contributed by the Sun, while the asterism of wife falls in 
Krithika triad, then she will be dear to the husband as if she were his own 
soul. If the bindu be that of the Moon, while wife’s star falls in Rohini triad, 
she will be very pleasing to his own mind. 


If the bindu were to be that of Mars, while wife’s star falls either 
Mrigashirsha triad or the Ashwini triad, then she will be very helpful to 
husband while he is doing good deeds. If the bindu were to be that of 
Mercury, while the wife’s star falls in Ashlesha triad, she will be agreeable 
to husband’s commands. If the bindu were to be contributed by Jupiter while 
her birth star falls in Punarvasu triad, she will be blessed with virtuous 
children. If the bindu were that of Venus while the wife’s star falls in 
Bharani triad, she will give conjugal happiness to husband. 


If the bindu were to be that of Saturn, while the birth asterism of wife 
falls in the Pushya triad, she will always be ready to serve the husband like a 
slave. The same holds good if the birth star of wife falls in Ardra triad. 


The above set of rules should come in handy for an astrologer who is 
about to do horoscope matching. We are now living in a world, where it is 
very difficult to see harmony, whether it be in a family, or an organization or 
in a building, society. The reason is very simple, everybody wants to benefit, 
nobody wants to do anything worthwhile for other people. The biggest 
disease now spreading like an epidemic across the globe is selfishness. 


The noted Tamil dramatist and actor, “Crazy” Mohan once said that he 
began his life in a joint family meaning that he lived in a house where his 
parental relatives also used to stay. Such families where known as “joint 
families”. According to him a stage has come today where if the husband 
and wife manage to stay in same house, it can be termed as a “joint family”. 


Please note that the effects seen above vary with the nature of planets. A 
girl born in the Martian triad of stars will be active — so under beneficial 
influences, she will be a hard worker and a partner in good deeds. If it were 
Saturn, she will be like a servant because Saturn denotes servile qualities. 
Mercury is the planet for communication. So if the wife’s star is Mercury 
and if beneficial influences prevail, she will happily obey instructions given 
to her. 


Please note that in this particular scheme of things with reference to 
interpretation, all planets give only beneficial results. There is no such thing 
as malefic or benefic. There is an Ayurvedic dictum which states that every 
herb in this world is a remedy for some disease or the other. Every planet 
has something good to offer but the offering will be in tune with its innate 
qualities. 


The very first rule we discussed is with reference to Sun. Sun is 
“Atmamkaraka’’. According to Adwaita philosophy, which is characterized 
by Sun, there is no “T’ or “You” in this universe — Everything is one. 
Everything is Brahman. So when Sun’s influence prevails, wife is looked 
upon as oneself, not as a different person. There is an example mentioned in 
“Raghuvamsha” by poet Kalidasa. A wise enemy came to be accepted (by 
King Dilipa) like medicine to a sick man, while a foolish friend used to be 
rejected like a finger bitten by a snake. 


In olden times, when a person is bitten by a snake, that part had to be 
removed surgically or else the poison will spread to the whole body, killing 
that person. So Kalidasa’s view is this; Medicine is alien to us but needs 


acceptance for a disease; finger belongs to us, but faces rejection when 
capable of spreading poison. Likewise we should not give too much 
importance to the intrinsic quality of planets but rather focus on their 
functional role. Jupiter in the 6" can actually damage a horoscope, while 
Saturn in the 6" is positively beneficial. Please refer to my earlier article 
where I had discussed, “Jupiter vs Saturn — who is a benefic?“ for better 
insight into this aspect. 


When one of the bindus in the 7” house has been contributed by a planet 
who owns the spouse’s birth star, then the couple will love each other. 

For instance let us say in the husband’s birth chart, the bindu has been 
contributed by Moon. Let us say the wife’s birth star is Rohini, Hasta or 
Shravana. Then mutual love will prevail between the couple. 


This rule can be compared with the rule relating to Samasaptama. Let us 
say, in the husband’s chart Moon is in Aries. In the wife’s chart, assume 
Venus to be in Libra. Now Moon in wife’s chart is in 7” from that of the 
husband. The converse is equally true. The Moon in husband’s chart is in the 
7" from that of the wife. 


What is the meaning or significance of this placement? They are 
equidistant from each other and if you were to superimpose the charts, the 
Moon in husband’s chart will aspect the natal Moon of the wife and vice 
versa. 

Now compare and contrast this with Shashtashtaka or Moon in 6/8 axis. 
Moon is in wife’s chart in Leo and in Capricorn in husband’s chart. This is a 
case where the horoscopes should not be matched. This is because the Moon 
in natal charts does not have any relationship. This reflects a basic state of 
disharmony with reference to both the charts. 


The entire object of bringing two charts together is to enhance the 
synergistic value of the union. When the charts indicate disharmony, 
connubial happiness will be totally absent. 


Hence, Venus has to be studied carefully in Ashtakavarga and its 
indications could be utilized to one’s advantage in horoscope matching. We 
will discuss more on this subject in our next article. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION PART -23 


By Dr. E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


We now continue our cruise with our companion on the ship, namely Venus. One 
important thing which has to be mentioned here is that both Venus and Mercury 
move generally close to the Sun. In fact in one year, Mercury gets combusted for 
nearly 150 days. About 40 percent of people born in this world, will have Mercury 
in combustion . Similarly Venus is also prone to combustion since it follows the 
Sun’s movement very closely. But if you examine the movement of Venus on an 
annual basis , it cannot be said for sure that every year it becomes 
retrograde.Combustion of Venus is less frequent compared to that of Mercury. 


Both Moon and Venus gain prominence at night. The reason is not far to seek. 
Moon becomes prominent only if the sun has set. Otherwise its radiance gets 
obscured by sunlight. Venus is also a bright shining planet. It can also become 
prominent only after sunset or before sunrise. 


There is a Death-Rebirth myth sorrounding Venus which is explained in 
mythology and which has an astronomical significance too. Let us say Venus 
appears as evening star. This goes on for about 263 days. After this it gets 
conjunct the Sun. This phase when it is invisible lasts for about two weeks. Then 
begins another phase of 263 days when Venus appears as Morning Star. Then 
Venus gets conjunct Sun for about 7 weeks when it again becomes invisible. Once 
again Venus re-emerges as evening star. In other words Venus as evening star 
dies and is reborn as morning star and the converse is also true. 


It is said that what is found in Mahabharata may be found elsewhere. But what is 
not found in Mahabharanta may not be found anywhere _ The preceptor(of 
demons) in Hindu mythology who is considered as equal to Venus is Sukracharya 
—preceptor of demons.We just now discussed the astronomical aspect of the 
Death-Rebirth theory — now let us see the mythological aspect of this theory. 


Devayani was the beautiful daughter of Shukracharya, preceptor of the 
demons.Shukracharya knew the secret of the Mritasanjivani hymn (that brings 
back to life a dead person). The demons were happy because their preceptor 
Shukracharya knew the secret of reviving the dead. The Devas also wanted to 
know the secret of this hymn.So they went to Kacha, the handsome son of 
Brihaspati, and asked him to learn the secret from Shukracharya. .Accordingly 
Kacha met Shukracharya and became his disciple . 


Kacha started living with the family of Shukracharya as per the tradition.Kacha 
developed a liking for Devayani ,daughter of Shukracharya and she was also 
drawn towards Kacha. As the years passed, The demons became suspicious of 
Kacha and killed him. To the great relief of Devayani,Kacha was brought back to 
life by Shukracharya.The love between Kacha and Devayani grew day by day. 
The demons were worried as they could guess that Kacha was there to learn the 
secret of Mritasanjivani hymn. 


One day Devayani asked Kacha to bring a particular flower that grew in deep 
forest.The demons followed Kacha and killed him once again.This time his body 
was ground into a paste and dissolved in water .Shukracharya once again saved 
Kacha by his secret knowledge.The demons were puzzled as each time they killed 
Kacha he was saved by Shukracharya.So next day when Kacha went out they slew 
him again but this time they burnt his body, took the ashes, mixed with wine and 
offered it to Shukracharya.,who being addicted to wine drank it. Shukracharya 
used his secret knowledge and called upon Kacha to come back to life .Kacha 
came back to life and spoke from inside the stomach of Shukracharya. 
Shukracharya could ask Kacha to come out but that would mean his own death. 
After long deliberation Shukracharya thought a way out.He knew now the real 
purpose of Kacha's visit.He told Kacha that there was only one way by which both 
of them can ensure Devayani's happiness.Shukracharya taught him the 
Mritasanjivani hymn .Kacha emerged from the dying body of Shukracharya and 
immediately brought his Guru back to life. 

But Shukracharya was sadly disappointed when he learnt that although Kacha 
deeply loved Devayani, he had to fulfil his duties towards the Devas. 

On the last day of his studies Kacha went to Shukracharya for his 
blessings.Devayani waited for Kacha to propose marriage.Devayani pleaded Kacha 
to take her as his wife. But Kacha replied, " | was born from your father's 
stomach.| am, therefore ,your brother.| can't marry you.".With the passage of 


time Devayani completely forgot Kacha. She got married to Yayati later.With this 
story in mind we can correlate how this episode from Mahabharata is closely 
related to the movement of Venus.Since Astronomical Truths cannot be easily 
handed over to posterity our Rishis conveyed esoteric Truths through simple 
fables such as this one. 


Now we will look at some of the Ashtakavarga rules pertaining to Venus. 


1) When Venus associated with eight bindus is in a quadrant or in a trinal 
house one will be blessed with (powerful) vehicles. 

2) In case Venus is present with seven bindus under similar conditions, one 
will be blessed with precious stones and wealth and will enjoy all comforts 
in life. 


What is the definition of a powerful vehicle? Probably, a vehicle which can 
carry more number of people. My view is that this may refer to horse-drawn 
vehicles because in the period in which these treatises were written, only such 
vehicles existed. Now we have two types of vehicles-luxury vehicles and utility 
vehicles. These luxury vehicles have certain snob value associated with it. 
Strictly speaking a vehicle is needed to carry you from one place to another. 
But in real life is it so? 


| wish to quote one real life incident here. A marriage was conducted in a city 
and there were several guests who came from various other cities and towns 
for participating in that function. One guest who had turned up phoned up a 
car hire agency to book a luxury car. He reached the auditorium where 
wedding was being held,in that car.What is the purpose if nobody saw him 
getting out of the luxury car? He asked the driver to go inside the auditorium 
and park the car just outside the entrance ,so that lots of other guests could 
actually see him getting out of that car. Please note that this incident is 
personally known to me and is not just a story being narrated to entertain 
people. In this particular incident the car was not just a vehicle for travel but a 
subtle indicator of personal status sought to be communicated by the guest to 
society. 


Whenever Venus denotes vehicles ,it is luxury vehicles, for sure. Please note 
. h . 3 
that venus is also a karaka of the 4" house , which denotes vehicles. |The 
second rule we just saw is venus with seven bindus will bless a person with 


precious stones , wealth and comforts. | wish to clarify a few points here. 


1) 


If you see consultations offered in gemology, you will noticed that diamond 
is supposed to be worn for venus. But here they are referring to not just 
diamonds-but all precious stones. Why and what could be the reason? The 
answer is simple: No precious stones has only utility value-all of them are 
worn only for ornamental reasons. Hence all precious stones are governed 
by venus,when viewed from this standpoint. 

We know houses 2 and 11 represent wealth and Jupiter is the karaka planet 

for these two houses. Then, how come venus is projected as planet of 

wealth. | can suggest two reasons for this: 

(a) | just now discussed that in some cases even a car has only snob value. 
Likewise wealth beyond a particular limit has no utility other than 
projecting its owner as an Aristocrat. So when wealth by itself becomes 
ornamental in nature, it is governed by Venus. 

(b) For acquisition of luxuries, money is required. So when Venus denotes 
luxuries, how can the same be acquired without money? If | am destined 
to get agricultural income , | must have a land to cultivate crops and 
generate such income. So the basis for all luxuries is wealth and Venus 
,well placed makes a person wealthy. 

(c) As discussed, Venus is the karaka of the 4th house and therefore venus 
with seven bindus gives rise to all comforts. 


| have just now received an email from a reader of EST requesting me to 
discuss charts to support the theory..Please note that | could not lay my 
hands on a chart where venus gets seven bindus and if the reader could 
locate one,it is possible to verify these rules in that chart.For the present 
| will discuss a chart where Venus gets six bindus, keeping in mind the 
request of the reader. 


We will now discuss the chart of one of the greatest Bollywood heroines 
of yesteryears , Meena Kumari. 

Please note that in her chart Venus as lagna lord is in 9 with 6 bindus, 
which makes it sufficiently powerful. True to the nature of Venus , 
Meena Kumari became a house hold celebrity due to her performance in 
films . Her yogakaraka Saturn and 10" lord Moon are also well placed. 
Due to her frequent portrayal of sorrowful roles she is often cited by 
media and literary sources as “The Tragedy Queen” . Apart from being a 
top notch actress , Meena Kumari was also a talented poetess. During 
her movie career spanning thirty years , she starred in more than ninety 
films, many of which many have achieved cult as well as classic status. 
Before | sign off , let me take this opportunity to wish all readers of EST 
,a very happy and prosperous New Year 2012. 


Meena Kumari 
1 August 1932 ¢ 11:55:00 hrs. * Bombay, India 


Provided by 


Parashara Software Pvt. Ltd. 


H-13, Chitranjan Marg, 
C-Scheme, Jaipur-302001 
Ph: 0141- 2364129, 23602084 
Fax: 2373696 
indiasales@parashara.com 
Processed On: 10 September 2011 


Meena Kumari 


Hindu Calendar 


Birth Particulars 


Sex 

Date of birth 
Day of birth 
Time of birth 
Ishtkaal 
Place of birth 
Country 


Latitude 
Longitude 

Time zone 
War/daylight Corr. 
GMT at birth 
LMT Corr. 

Local Mean Time 
Sidereal Time 
Sunsign (Western) 
Lagna 


Female 

1 August 1932 
Monday 
11:55:00 hrs 
13:59:57 ghatis 
Bombay 

India 


18N58'00 
72E50'00 
-05:30:00 hrs 
00:00:00 hrs 
06:25:00 hrs 
-00:38:40 hrs 
11:16:20 hrs 
07:54:56 hrs 
Leo 

Lib 04:08:29 


Family Particulars 


Grand Father 
Father 
Mother 
Caste 
Gotra 


Chakra 


Avakhada 


Varna 
Vashya 
. Nakshatra - Pada 
Yoni 

. Rashish 

Gana 

Rashi 

. Nadi 

Varga 

Yunja 

Hansak (Tatwa) 
Naamakshar 

Paya (Rashi) 

Paya (Nakshatra) 


SIAR RWS 


Brahmin 
Jalachara 
Punarvasu - 4 
Marjara 
Moon 
Deva 
Cancer 
Adya 
Mesha 
Madya 
Jala 

Hee 
Copper 
Silver 


Tamil Calendar 


Tamil Year 
Tamil Month 
Tamil Weekday 
Tamil Date 


NA 
NA 


NA 


Chaitradi System 
Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 

Kartikadi System 
Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 

Saka Samvat 

Sun's Ayana/Gola 

Season 

Paksha 

Hindu Weekday 


Tithi at sunrise 
Tithi ending time 


Tithi at birth 


Nak. At sunrise 
Nak. ending time 


Nak. at birth 


Yoga at sunrise 
Yoga ending time 


Yoga at birth 


Karana at sunrise 


Karana ending time: 


Karana at birth 


Sunrise Time 
Degree 

Sunset Time 
Degree 

Next - day Sunrise 


Moon Nak. entry 
Moon Nak. exit 
Bhayat 

Bhabhog 

Dasha at Birth 
Balance of Dasha 
Ayanamsha 


1989 
Shravan 


1988 
Ashaadh 


1854 
Dakshinayan/Uttar 
Varsha 

Krishna 

Monday 


Krishna Chaturdashi 
15:51:09 hrs 

23:50:18 ghatis 
Krishna Chaturdashi 


Punarvasu 
14:37:16 hrs 
20:45:36 ghatis 
Punarvasu 


Vajra 
15:49:27 hrs 
23:46:4 ghatis 
Vajra 


Shakuni 
15:51:09 
23:50:18 ghatis 
Shakuni 


06:19:01 hrs 
Can 15:37:41 
19:10:29 hrs 
Can 16:08:58 
Tue 06:19:20 hrs. 


31 Jul 1932 14:00:37 
1 Aug 1932 14:37:16 
54:45:56 ghatis 
6:45:38 ghatis 
Jupiter-Rahu-Jupiter 
Jupiter ly 9m Id 
-22:55:00 Lahiri 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 +2 


Meena Kumari 


1 August 1932 « Monday ¢ 11:55:00 hrs ¢ Bombay, India 


Birth Chart 


Ma 04:42 
Ve 08:19 


Ra 24:42 


SaR 07:56 


Mo 01:51 
Su 15:51 


JU 04:56 
Me 08:44 
Ke 24:42 


AS 04:08 


Navamsha 


SaR 


Planet 


R/C Sign Degree 


Speed 


Nakshatra 


Status SB 


Lagna 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Lib 04:08:29 
Can 15:51:05 
Can 01:51:13 
Gem 04:42:02 
Leo 08:44:09 
Leo 04:56:24 
Gem 08:19:32 
Cap 07:56:39 
Aqu 24:42:30 
Leo 24:42:30 


00:57:26 
13:07:00 
00:40:16 
00:12:21 
00:12:41 
00:23:13 
-00:04:24 
-00:06:13 
-00:06:13 


Chitra 
Pushya 
Punarvasu 
Mrigasira 
Magha 
Magha 

Ardra 
Uttarashadha 
Poorvabhadra 
Poorva Phalg. 


BNA NWA HK HHA 


Neutr. 1.53 
Own 1.11 
Neutr. 1.42 
Grt.Fr. 1.30 
Grt.Fr. 1.16 
Grt.Fr. 1.35 
Own = 1.25 
Own 

Neutr. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 +3 


Meena Kumari (3a Chandra, Navamsha and Bhava 


Moon Chart Navamsha 


Ra Ju 


Ve 


Bhava(Sripati) 


AS 


Bhava Spashta - Sripati System 


Bhava Number Bhava Arambha Bhava Madhya Bhava Antya 
House beginning Middle of House House ending 
First Vir 19:04:56 Lib 04:08:29 Lib 19:04:56 
. Second Lib 19:04:56 Sco 04:01:23 Sco 18:57:49 
Third Sco 18:57:49 Sag 03:54:16 Sag 18:50:43 
Fourth 18:50:43 Cap 03:47:10 Cap 18:50:43 
Fifth 18:50:43 Aqu 03:54:16 Aqu 18:57:49 
Sixth 18:57:49 Pis 04:01:23 Pis 19:04:56 
. Seventh i 19:04:56 Ari 04:08:29 Ari 19:04:56 
Eight 1 19:04:56 Tau 04:01:23 Tau 18:57:49 
. Ninth 18:57:49 Gem 03:54:16 Gem 18:50:43 
10. Tenth 18:50:43 Can 03:47:10 Can 18:50:43 
11. Eleventh 18:50:43 Leo 03:54:16 Leo 18:57:49 
12. Twelfth 18:57:49 Vir 04:01:23 Vir 19:04:56 


CAN AKWRWNE 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2°-4 


Meena Kumari (3a Sudarshan Chakra 


Sudarshan Chakra 


Outer Circle : Surya Chart 
Middle Circle : Chandra Chart 
Inner Circle : Birth Chart 


Sudarshan Chakra represents the comparative positions of the planets in 
the Sun Chart, the Moon Chart and the Birth Chart simultaneously, 
from outer to inner circle respectively. 

To study a house, consider the signs in all the three charts simultaneously. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2*5 


Meena Kumari 


Divisional Charts #1 


Mo SaR 
Ra Ke 


Su As Ma 
Ju Ve Me 


AS 


Dreshkana (happiness siblin 


Chaturthamsha (destiny) 


Ke 


SaR 


Ke 


Su As Ra 


Me Ra 


Saptamsha (children) 


Navamsh 


a (spouse 


Su 


SaR 


Me As 


Ve 


As Ma 
Ke Su 


Dashamsha (great successes) 


Dwadashamsha (parents) 


Mo Ke 


SaR 


Ke 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 +6 


Meena Kumari 


Shodashamsha (conveyances) 


ey 


Vimshamsha (spiritual progress) 


Divisional Charts #2 


Ve Mo 


Ju 


Ra Ke 


Mo Me 


AS 


Su 


SaR 


Ve 


Su Me 


Ju 


Ra Ke 


Ma 


Chaturvimshamsha (knowledge) 


Saptavimshamsha (strength) 


Ra Ke 


Ve 


Ve Me 


SaR 


As Ma 
Ju 


Me 


Trimshamsha (misfortunes) 


Kvedams 


ha (ausp. 


inausp. effects) 


Su 


As Ma 
Ju 


Mo 


Ve Me 


Mo Ra 
Ke 


Ma Ju 


Akshavedamsha (all areas) 


Shashtiamsha (all areas) 


Ju Su 
SaR 


Ma Ra 


SaR 


Ju 


Su 


Me 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 +7 


Meena Kumari 


Planetary Friendship 


Naisargik Maitri Chakra (Natural Relationship) 


Friends 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Jupiter 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Mercury 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Saturn 


Mercury 
Venus 
Rahu 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Enemies 


Neutral 


Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Rahu 
Ketu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Mercury 
Rahu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rah Ket 


Mercury 
Venus 


Sun 
Moon 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Ketu 


Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Jupiter 
Mercury 


Tatkalik Maitri Chakra (Temporal Relationship) 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Friends 


Enemies 


Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Ven Ket 


Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Ven Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 
Jup Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Venus 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Venus 


Mercury 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Ven Ket 


Ven Ket 


Panchadha Maitri Chakra (Compound Relationship) 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Fast Friends 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Sun 
Venus 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 
Ketu 


Rahu 


Friends 


Neutral 


Mercury 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Mercury 
Venus 


Jupiter 
Venus 


Enemies 


Bitter 
Enemies 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Jupiter 


Mercury 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


HP2 +8 


Meena Kumari 


Shodashvarga Summary 


Signs occupied by planets in Shodashvargas 


Shodashvarga Summary 


Lagna 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury Jupiter Venus 


Saturn Rahu 


Lib 
Leo 
Lib 
Lib 
Lib 
Sco 
Sco 
Sco 


Janma 

Hora 
Dreshkana 
Chaturthamsha 
Saptamsha 
Navamsha 
Dashamsha 
Dwadashamsha 
Shodashamsha Gem 
Vimshamsha Gem 
Chaturvimshamsha Sco 
Saptavimshamsha Cap 
Trimshamsha Ari 
Khavedamsha Vir 
Akshavedamsha Lib 
Shashtiamsha Gem 


Can 
Leo 
Sco 
Cap 
Ari 

Sco 
Leo 
Cap 
Sag 
Aqu 
Can 
Pis 

Pis 

Can 
Pis 

Aqu 


Can 
Can 
Can 
Can 
Cap 
Can 
Pis 
Can 
Ari 
Tau 
Leo 
Aqu 
Tau 
Sag 
Gem 
Lib 


Gem 
Leo 
Gem 
Gem 
Can 
Sco 
Can 


Gem 
Leo 
Gem 
Vir 
Can 
Sag 
Leo 
Vir 
Ari 
Cap 
Aqu 
Tau 
Aqu 
Pis 
Sag 
Lib 


Leo 
Leo 
Leo 
Leo 


Leo 
Leo 
Leo 
Sco 
Lib 
Gem 
Lib 
Sco 
Sag 
Tau 
Aqu 
Sco 
Aqu 
Pis 
Vir 
Cap 


Cap 
Can 
Cap 
Ari 
Leo 
Pis 
Sco 
Ari 
Leo 
Vir 
Cap 
Aqu 
Vir 
Leo 
Pis 
Ari 


Aqu 
Can 
Lib 

Sco 


Pis 
Leo 
Gem 
Sag 
Vir 
Pis 


Dignities of planets in Shodashvargas 


Sun 


Neutr. 
Moolt. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Exalt. 

Neutr. 
Moolt. 
Neutr. 


Janma 

Hora 
Dreshkana 
Chaturthamsha 
Saptamsha 
Navamsha 
Dashamsha 
Dwadashamsha 
Shodashamsha Grt.Fr. 
Vimshamsha Grt.En. 
Chaturvimshamsha Grt.Fr. 
Saptavimshamsha Neutr. 
Trimshamsha Grt.Fr. 
Khavedamsha Neutr. 
Akshavedamsha Neutr. 


Moon 


Own 
Own 
Own 
Own 
Enemy 
Own 
Enemy 
Own 
Frnd. 
Exalt. 
Grt.Fr. 
Enemy 
Exalt. 
Frnd. 
Grt.Fr. 


Mars 

Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 


Grt.En. 


Debil. 
Own 
Debil. 
Debil. 
Enemy 
Own 
Own 
Enemy 
Moolt. 
Enemy 
Debil. 


Mercury Jupiter 


Exalt. 


Venus 


Grt.Fr. 
Grt.En. 
Grt.Fr. 
Debil. 
Grt.En. 
Enemy 
Grt.En. 
Debil. 
Frnd. 
Neutr. 
Grt.Fr. 
Own 
Neutr. 
Exalt. 
Frnd. 


Grt.Fr. 
Neutr. 
Grt.Fr. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Grt.En. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Grt.En. 
Own 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Grt.En. 
Own 


Saturn 


Own 
Grt.En. 
Own 
Debil. 
Grt.En. 
Frnd. Exalt. Exalt. 
Grt.En. 
Debil. 
Grt.En. 
Neutr. 
Own 
Moolt. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Enemy 


Rahu 


Own 

Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Debil. 
Neutr. 


Ketu 


Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Debil. 
Neutr. 


Neutr. 
Debil. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Own 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Moolt. 
Neutr. 


Neutr. 
Debil. 
Own 

Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Neutr. 
Own 


Shashtiamsha Neutr. Enemy — Grt.Fr. Frnd. Grt.En. Own Debil. Neutr. Neutr. 


Vimshopaka Bala 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Rahu Ketu 


15 
13 
13 
13 


Shadavarga 
Saptavarga 
Dashavarga 
Shodashavarga 


20 
19 
17 
17 


15 
15 
16 
15 


18 
16 
14 
14 


15 
13 
12 
13 


16 13 
16 12 
15 9 
15 10 


11 
10 
10 
10 


Dispositors in 6 divisions (Shad Varga) 


Sun 


Ma (2) 
Mo (1) 
Su(1) 
Ju(1) 
Sa(1) 


Moon 


Mo (5) 
Ve (1) 


Mars 


Ma(2) 
Me (2) 


Su(1) 


Mo (1) 


Mercury Jupiter 


Su (3) 
Ma (1) 
Me (1) 
Sa(1) 


Sat 


Sa ( 
Mo 
Ma 
Me 
Ju( 


Venus 


Me (3) 
Su(1) 
Ju(1) 
Sa(1) 


Su (3) 
Ma(1) 
Me(1) 
Ve (1) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Rahu 


Ve (2) 
Mo (1) 
Ma(1) 
Me(1) 
Sa(1) 


urn 


2) 
(1) 
(1) 
(1) 
1) 


Meena Kumari 


Ochcha Bala 
Sapta-vargaja Bala 
Ojhayugma bala 
Kendradi Bala 
Drekkana Bala 

. Sthana Bala 


. Dig-Bala 


Shad Bala 
Mars Mercury 


17.77 
142.50 
15.00 
15.00 
15.00 
205.27 


50.30 


47.91 
138.75 
30.00 
30.00 
0.00 
246.66 


41.53 


Shad Bala and Bhava Bala 


Jupiter 


50.02 
101.25 
15.00 
30.00 
15.00 
211.27 


40.27 


Venus 


36.22 
105.00 
0.00 
15.00 
0.00 
156.22 


8.49 


Saturn 


34.02 
76.88 
0.00 
60.00 
0.00 
170.89 


31.27 


Nata-Unnata Bala 
Paksha Bala 
Tri-Bhaga Bala 
Varsha Bala 
Maasa Bala 
Vaara Bala 
Hora Bala 
Ayana Bala 
Yuddha Bala 

3. Kaala Bala 


4. Chesta Bala 
5. Naisargika Bala 


0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
53.39 


0.00 
224.42 


53.39 
60.00 


4.67 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
45.00 
0.00 
2.76 
0.00 
56.74 


4.67 
51.42 


4.31 
55.33 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
59.97 


0.00 
119.62 


35.74 
17.16 


60.00 
55.33 
0.00 
0.00 
30.00 
0.00 
0.00 
44.25 


0.00 
189.58 


54.92 
25.74 


55.69 
4.67 
60.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
45.96 


0.00 
166.32 


12.68 
34.26 


55.69 
4.67 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 

60.00 

59.99 


0.00 
180.35 


57.89 
42.84 


4.31 
55.33 
0.00 
15.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
39:15 


0.00 
130.40 


57.06 
8.58 


6. Drig Bala 


-14.46 


-11.95 


-2.71 


-13.42 


-12.52 


-0.40 


-22.96 


Total Shadbala 


Shadbala in Rupas 
Minimum requirements 390 360 300 420 390 330 300 


% of required 


596.74 
9.95 


1.53 


400.64 
6.68 


1.11 


425.38 
7.09 


1.42 


545.01 
9.08 


1.30 


452.27 
7.54 


1.16 


445.40 
7.42 


1.35 


375.24 
6.25 


1.25 


Sthana Bala % req. 
Dig-Bala % req 
Kaala Bala % req. 
Chesta Bala % req. 


1.32 
1.60 
2.00 
1.07 


2.25 
0.01 
0.57 
0.16 


2.14 
1.68 
1.79 
0.89 


1.49 
1.19 
1.69 
1.10 


1.28 
1.15 
1.48 
0.25 


1.17 
0.17 
1.80 
1.93 


1.78 
1.04 
1.95 
1.43 


Drig-Bala % req. 1.78 0.07 3.00 1.47 1.53 1.50 2.79 


Relative Rank 


1 


7 


2 


4 


6 


3 


5 


Ishta Phala 
Kashta Phala 


37.56 
22.44 


22.52 
37.48 


26.75 
33.25 


51.41 
8.59 


31.35 
28.65 


47.06 
12.94 


45.54 
14.46 


Bhava Bala 


Rashi 
Degree 


Vv ViI 
Aqu  Pis 
4 4 


VII 
Ari 
4 


From Lord 

Dig Bala 

Drishti 

Planets in 

Day-Night 15 


375 452 

20 40 

-15 -30 
0 
15 


425 
30 


Bhava Bala Total 489 


395 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 + 10 


Meena Kumari (3 Aspects on Planets and Bhavas 


Aspects on Planets 


Aspecting Planets 


Aspected Sun Moon Mars’ MercuryJupiter Venus Saturn Rahu  Ketu 
Planets Degree 105:51 91:51 64:42 128:44 124:56 68:19 277:56 324:42 144:42 


Sun 105:51 - - - - 4/4 2. 
(3) (56) (38) 

Moon 91:51 - 4/4 = 
(47) (52) 

Mars 64:42 4/4 
(49) 

Mercury  128:44 4/4 
(28) 

Jupiter 124:56 4/4 
(20) 

Venus 68:19 4/4 
(51) 


Saturn 277:56 4/4 
(56) 


Rahu 324:42 1/2 
(19) 


Ketu 144:42 1/4 
(45) 


Aspects on Bhavas 


Aspecting Planets 


Aspected Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu  Ketu 
Bhava Degree 105:51 91:51 64:42 128:44 124:56 68:19 277:56 324:42 144:42 


First 180:00 33 43 12 14 32 49 4 
Second 210:00 35 27 40 44 4 50 24 
Third 240:00 11 4 32 59 51 10 49 
Fourth 270:00 36 58 4 30 47 50 
Fifth 300:00 50 43 50 58 32 18 
Sixth 330:00 35 28 47 45 17 55 
Seventh 360:00 20 32 59 2 49 
Eighth 30:00 5 17 30 50 
Ninth 60:00 - 2 - 10 
Tenth 90:00 - 7 
Eleventh  120:00 - 7 
Twelfth 150:00 - 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 « 11 


Meena Kumari 


Planet 


Graha Avasthas - Planets and their Moods 


Jagradadi 
Avastha 
(set of 3) 


Baladi 
Avastha 
(set of 5) 


Lajjitadi Avastha 


(set of 6) 


Deeptadi 
Avastha 
(set of 9) 


Planetary Avasthas 


Shyanadi 
Avastha 
(set of 12) 


Sun 


Moon 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Jagrad 
(Wakefulness) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Trushit 


Trushit Kshobit 


Deena 
(Deficient) 


Swastha 
(Stable) 


Agama 
(Arriving) 


Gamana 
(Departing) 


Mars 


Sushupti 
(State of sleep) 


Balavastha 
(Childhood) 


Mudit 


Deena 
(Deficient) 


Nidra 
(Sleep) 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Balavastha 
(Childhood) 


Mudit 


Mudita 
(Delighted) 


Mudita 
(Delighted) 


Prakashana 
(Luminous) 


Agama 
(Arriving) 


Venus 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Mudita 
(Delighted) 


Prakashana 
(Luminous) 


Saturn 


Rahu 


Jagrad 
(Wakefulness) 


Jagrad 
(Wakefulness) 


Vridhha 
(Old age) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Lajjit Mudit 


Swastha 
(Stable) 


Swastha 
(Stable) 


Shayana 
(Recumbent) 


Agama 
(Arriving) 


Ketu 


Sushupti 
(State of sleep) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Mudit 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Deena 
(Deficient) 


Prakashana 
(Luminous) 


HP2 + 12 


HP2 + 13 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #1 


00 xt 00 00 CN I~ st \O 


48 


thr Ooroot 


49 


mrrnsrsrnn 


39 


CO SF COM CO 00 \O[~ 


2 3 


i) 
= 
S 
aS 
2) 
~Y 
co 
N 
ie] 
S 
a 
a 
aa 
i} 
e 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
iv) 
ee 
S 
a 
io) 
~~ 
co 
nN 
< 


onnsoOoonoo 


ooconnmenoO 


Sq OOM Oo 


oon OOOs 


aon OOCoCoO 


See HOR Oe 


Onno ee 


sOCOoOnmoOoOooO 


“O°oOnmOoOnROoOoO 


roOonoCoOoOor- 


=OOonmOoCooOn 


2 3 


aA OOoOoOnoo 


Sans On OneHO 


oon TOoOnmO 


Se HOR RO 


Onan HOoOoe 


ooonoono 


ooo neaaaes 


an OOOO 


oonmonnToo 


ooonnono 


ono nOr 


1011121 2 


Conon OneO 
=o OCS 
oo=-cooodc= 
ocoooooooo 
aon MOO 
oonnOonne 
=-OCOOonmFOoOoCO 
soOoCooTOo- 
Om OOCOTO 
= So oocooco-4 


aa OOCoOn 


1011121 2 3 4 


Seq OoueHOorw4 
Ona HOoO 
ooonOonne 
SOnOnmsHO 
onan oOoonr 
he hel) 
SeqOouesoe4 
oonmnOoOnnToO 
-OOonmOooon- 
sOCOmMHS 


aOR OnRoOOoOo 


54 


Meena Kumari 


45 67 8 9 1011 121 
5 3 43 2 6 63 3 6 4 3 
45 67 8 9 1011121 
4533 4525 64 5 3 
3.42433 55 02 4 4 
535346445 45 6 


3 45678 9 


5 678 9 


sOOCCR NaS s 


y 


Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Mercur 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2+14 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #2 


WFOOT~DNOCOOND 


56 


MmNOMNNANDCO 


52 


Fstorm Momo 


39 


WONNOMM™ Nt 


1011121 2 3 4 


i) 
= 
S 
aS 
2) 
~Y 
co 
N 
ie] 
S 
a 
a 
aa 
i} 
e 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
iv) 
ep 
S 
ay 
is) 
— 
co 
nN 
< 


oon oOoOon 


Se OOoOn Oe 


aH ORO Oo 


ooneTNenOr 


Sa OO 


conor Ooo 


oon Onee 


sOnmOOoOnmoOoO 


ConOCOn eee 


conor oor 


onan OnoOoO 


1011121 2 


SRR HOO 
ano OO 
=a OoOonmOonmO 
SCOnHHOnH 
ooooennon 
oncooonor 
=OonmOoOoOon- 
eon OR NES 
el ear hl) 
sOnOoOHOnH 


oooo7nonoO 


onOoocoon-s!, 
-OnOonmoOoo 
oonnoocor 
ooocooo7no 
oonnoooer 
onononoOoen 
a OOCOOoOnOoOoO 
SOSH O 
Sonne nTOoOOoO 
aOoOnmOoOoOnOoOe 


ooonmoooo 


1 3 3 3 


1011121 2 3 4 5 6 


14 4 6 3 4 3 


ono Teo 
SonntOonTOe 
oooonoor 
SSO 
onOonOonenoO 
SaaS OOHO 
aOoOnOoOoOnOoOr 
onoo7noCooo 
aA OOnMnMOoOoO 
ononoonns 


aa OOOO 


49 


Meena Kumari 


5 678 9 
544535475 5 5 4 
3 45678 9 

6253 643 3 5 45 6 
101112123 45 67 8 9 
7 8 9 

3444245 472 5 5 


4 


soon moOoOoO 


Sign 
Totals 
Lagna 
Sion 
Totals 


Jupiter 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Meena Kumari Sarvashtaka & Chancha Chakra 


Sarvashtakvarga 


Samudaya Ashtakavarga 
30 33 34 


22 


a0 


BRANAMNBRBD] | 
ABNBDAHAU NY] & 
WUAMAMAN MAW) a} wn 
ReWhRWHRWHI | D 


29 


NY |_ whNWwBD| HB] CO 


BK 
N | wWwwpUaMNDAD| B&B] oO 


\o 


N | WaDBNW WW] WwW] 


~ 
Wl BRWAANNDA& 


— 
Nf RenbRRONW 


N 
WwW) RABABNDAW 


N 
No} 
N 
N 


Sarva Chancha Chakra 


Mo Me Ve Su Ma Tu 7 
a 


64533 . 
3773713 / 


; 4 
2343 a6 


35 
De 
28 \< 
5 


2SS60 30 34 568 
74 33 54 
4[6445554\4o6 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 ° 15 


Meena Kumari (3a Ashtakavarga - Reductions 


Before Reduction Trikona Reduction Ekadhipatya Reduction 


Sun 6 4 1 3 0 1 3 0 


0 0 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 2 
Sodhya Pinda 


Moon 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mars 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mercury 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Jupiter 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Venus 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Saturn 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Lagna 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 16 


Meena Kumari 


Vimshottari MD and AD 


Vimshottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Jupiter (16y) 
From 0 yrs. to ly9m 


Saturn (19y) 
From ly9m to 20y5m 


: Jupiter ly 9m 1d 
: Ju-Ra-Ju-Ma-Me 


Mercury (17y) 
From 20y5m to 37y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Jupiter 

Saturn 

Mercury 

Ketu 

Venus 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Rahu 01-08-1932 02-05-1934 


Saturn 02-05-1934 19-04-1937 
Mercury 19-04-1937 14-12-1939 
Ketu 14-12-1939 16-01-1941 
Venus 16-01-1941 01-03-1944 
Sun 01-03-1944 06-02-1945 
Moon 06-02-1945 30-08-1946 
Mars 30-08-1946 03-10-1947 
Rahu 03-10-1947 25-07-1950 


Jupiter 25-07-1950 22-01-1953 


Mercury 22-01-1953 08-06-1955 
Ketu 08-06-1955 30-05-1956 
Venus 30-05-1956 16-03-1959 
Sun 16-03-1959 16-01-1960 
Moon 16-01-1960 09-06-1961 
Mars 09-06-1961 01-06-1962 
Rahu 01-06-1962 05-12-1964 
05-12-1964 01-03-1967 
01-03-1967 25-10-1969 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Ketu (7y) 
From 37y2m to 44ylm 


Venus (20y) 
From 44ylm to 63y10m 


Sun (6y) 
From 63y10m to 69y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 25-10-1969 21-03-1970 
Venus 21-03-1970 15-05-1971 
Sun 15-05-1971 18-09-1971 
Moon 18-09-1971 15-04-1972 
Mars 15-04-1972 09-09-1972 
Rahu 09-09-1972 22-09-1973 
22-09-1973 24-08-1974 
Saturn 24-08-1974 27-09-1975 
Mercury 27-09-1975 18-09-1976 


Jupiter 


Venus = 18-09-1976 01-01-1980 
Sun 01-01-1980 26-12-1980 
Moon 26-12-1980 18-08-1982 
Mars 18-08-1982 12-10-1983 
Rahu 12-10-1983 26-09-1986 
26-09-1986 13-05-1989 
Saturn 13-05-1989 26-06-1992 
Mercury 26-06-1992 12-04-1995 
Ketu 12-04-1995 05-06-1996 


Jupiter 


Sun 05-06-1996 21-09-1996 
Moon — 21-09-1996 20-03-1997 
Mars 20-03-1997 24-07-1997 
Rahu 24-07-1997 13-06-1998 
13-06-1998 28-03-1999 
Saturn 28-03-1999 04-03-2000 
Mercury 04-03-2000 04-01-2001 
Ketu 04-01-2001 10-05-2001 
Venus 10-05-2001 05-05-2002 


Jupiter 


Moon (10y) 
From 69y9m to 79y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon — 05-05-2002 01-03-2003 


Mars 01-03-2003 27-09-2003 
Rahu 27-09-2003 20-03-2005 
20-03-2005 13-07-2006 
Saturn 13-07-2006 03-02-2008 
Mercury 03-02-2008 27-06-2009 
Ketu 27-06-2009 23-01-2010 
Venus 23-01-2010 15-09-2011 
Sun 15-09-2011 13-03-2012 


Jupiter 


Mars (7y) 
From 79y7m to 86y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 13-03-2012 07-08-2012 


Rahu 07-08-2012 20-08-2013 
20-08-2013 22-07-2014 
Saturn 22-07-2014 25-08-2015 
Mercury 25-08-2015 16-08-2016 
Ketu 16-08-2016 10-01-2017 
Venus 10-01-2017 06-03-2018 
Sun 06-03-2018 10-07-2018 
Moon — 10-07-2018 05-02-2019 


Jupiter 


Rahu (18y) 


From 86y6mto 104y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 05-02-2019 04-10-2021 
04-10-2021 15-02-2024 
Saturn 15-02-2024 07-12-2026 
Mercury 07-12-2026 12-06-2029 
Ketu 12-06-2029 25-06-2030 
Venus 25-06-2030 09-06-2033 
Sun 09-06-2033 29-04-2034 
Moon — 29-04-2034 21-10-2035 
Mars 21-10-2035 02-11-2036 


Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 + 17 


Meena Kumari 


Jup-Rah 


Vimshottari (Short) AD and PD #1 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sat-Sat 


Sat-Mer 


Sat-Ket 


Sat-Ven 


Begin 01-08-1932 
02-05-1934 


Begin 02-05-1934 


End 


19-04-1937 


Begin 19-04-1937 
14-12-1939 


Begin 14-12-1939 
End 16-01-1941 


Begin 16-01-1941 


End 


01-03-1944 


01-08-1932 
21-08-1932 
05-01-1933 
07-05-1933 
27-06-1933 
18-11-1933 
31-12-1933 
13-03-1934 


Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


02-05-1934 
21-10-1934 
23-03-1935 
25-05-1935 
22-11-1935 
15-01-1936 
14-04-1936 
16-06-1936 
26-11-1936 


19-04-1937 
04-09-1937 
30-10-1937 
10-04-1938 
28-05-1938 
17-08-1938 
12-10-1938 
07-03-1939 
14-07-1939 


14-12-1939 
07-01-1940 
13-03-1940 
02-04-1940 
05-05-1940 
29-05-1940 
27-07-1940 
19-09-1940 
21-11-1940 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


16-01-1941 
25-07-1941 
20-09-1941 
24-12-1941 
01-03-1942 
19-08-1942 
18-01-1943 
17-07-1943 
26-12-1943 


Sat-Sun 


Sat-Mon 


Sat-Mar 


Sat-Rah 


Sat-Jup 


Begin 01-03-1944 
06-02-1945 


01-03-1944 
18-03-1944 
16-04-1944 
06-05-1944 
26-06-1944 
11-08-1944 
04-10-1944 
21-11-1944 
11-12-1944 


Begin 06-02-1945 


30-08-1946 


06-02-1945 
26-03-1945, 
28-04-1945, 
23-07-1945 
07-10-1945 
05-01-1946 
27-03-1946 
29-04-1946 
02-08-1946 


Mer-Ket 


Begin 30-08-1946 
03-10-1947 


30-08-1946 
23-09-1946 
21-11-1946 
14-01-1947 
18-03-1947 
13-05-1947 
06-06-1947 
11-08-1947 
31-08-1947 


Mer-Ven 


Begin 03-10-1947 
25-07-1950 


03-10-1947 
05-03-1948 
20-07-1948 
29-12-1948 
24-05-1949 
23-07-1949 
10-01-1950 
02-03-1950 
26-05-1950 


Mer-Sun 


Begin 25-07-1950 


22-01-1953 


25-07-1950 
24-11-1950 
17-04-1951 
24-08-1951 
17-10-1951 
17-03-1952 
01-05-1952 
16-07-1952 
07-09-1952 


Begin 22-01-1953 
08-06-1955 


22-01-1953 
25-05-1953 
15-07-1953 
06-12-1953 
19-01-1954 
01-04-1954 
21-05-1954 
28-09-1954 
22-01-1955 


Begin 08-06-1955 


30-05-1956 


08-06-1955 
29-06-1955 
28-08-1955 
14-09-1955 
14-10-1955 
04-11-1955 
28-12-1955 
13-02-1956 
10-04-1956 


Begin 30-05-1956 
16-03-1959 


30-05-1956 
16-11-1956 
06-01-1957 
01-04-1957 
31-05-1957 
31-10-1957 
16-03-1958 
24-08-1958 
16-01-1959 


Begin 16-03-1959 
16-01-1960 


16-03-1959 
01-04-1959 
26-04-1959 
14-05-1959 
29-06-1959 
09-08-1959 
26-09-1959 
08-11-1959 
26-11-1959 


Begin 16-01-1960 
09-06-1961 


16-01-1960 
28-02-1960 
29-03-1960 
13-06-1960 
20-08-1960 
09-11-1960 
20-01-1961 
19-02-1961 
15-05-1961 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 + 18 


Meena Kumari 


Mer-Mar 


Vimshottari (Short) AD and PD #2 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mer-Rah 


Mer-Jup 


Mer-Sat 


Ket-Ket 


Begin 09-06-1961 


End 


01-06-1962 


Begin 01-06-1962 
05-12-1964 


Begin 05-12-1964 
End = 01-03-1967 


Begin 01-03-1967 


End 


25-10-1969 


Begin 25-10-1969 
End = 21-03-1970 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


09-06-1961 
30-06-1961 
23-08-1961 
09-10-1961 
05-12-1961 
24-01-1962 
14-02-1962 
15-04-1962 
03-05-1962 


01-06-1962 
17-10-1962 
16-02-1963 
12-07-1963 
19-11-1963 
11-01-1964 
12-06-1964 
28-07-1964 
13-10-1964 


Jup 05-12-1964 
24-03-1965 
31-07-1965 
24-11-1965 
10-01-1966 
26-05-1966 
06-07-1966 
12-09-1966 
30-10-1966 


Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


01-03-1967 
02-08-1967 
17-12-1967 
11-02-1968 
22-07-1968 
08-09-1968 
28-11-1968 
24-01-1969 
18-06-1969 


25-10-1969 
03-11-1969 
27-11-1969 
05-12-1969 
17-12-1969 
26-12-1969 
17-01-1970 
05-02-1970 
28-02-1970 


Ket-Ven 


Ket-Sun 


Ket-Mon 


Ket-Mar 


Ket-Rah 


Begin 21-03-1970 


15-05-1971 


21-03-1970 
30-05-1970 
20-06-1970 
25-07-1970 
19-08-1970 
21-10-1970 
16-12-1970 
20-02-1971 
21-04-1971 


Begin 15-05-1971 
18-09-1971 


15-05-1971 
22-05-1971 
01-06-1971 
08-06-1971 
27-06-1971 
14-07-1971 
03-08-1971 
21-08-1971 
28-08-1971 


Ket-Sat 


Begin 18-09-1971 
15-04-1972 


18-09-1971 
06-10-1971 
18-10-1971 
19-11-1971 
17-12-1971 
19-01-1972 
18-02-1972 
01-03-1972 
05-04-1972 


Ket-Mer 


Begin 15-04-1972 


09-09-1972 


15-04-1972 
24-04-1972 
16-05-1972 
04-06-1972 
28-06-1972 
19-07-1972 
27-07-1972 
21-08-1972 
28-08-1972 


Ven-Ven 


Begin 09-09-1972 
22-09-1973 


09-09-1972 
05-11-1972 
25-12-1972 
23-02-1973 
18-04-1973 
10-05-1973 
12-07-1973 
31-07-1973 
31-08-1973 


Ven-Sun 


Begin 22-09-1973 
24-08-1974 


22-09-1973 
06-11-1973 
29-12-1973 
15-02-1974 
06-03-1974 
01-05-1974 
18-05-1974 
15-06-1974 
05-07-1974 


Begin 24-08-1974 
27-09-1975 


24-08-1974 
26-10-1974 
22-12-1974 
14-01-1975 
22-03-1975 
11-04-1975 
14-05-1975 
06-06-1975 
05-08-1975 


Begin 27-09-1975 
18-09-1976 


27-09-1975 
17-11-1975 
08-12-1975 
05-02-1976 
23-02-1976 
24-03-1976 
14-04-1976 
06-06-1976 
24-07-1976 


Begin 18-09-1976 


01-01-1980 


18-09-1976 
06-04-1977 
05-06-1977 
13-09-1977 
22-11-1977 
21-05-1978 
28-10-1978 
06-05-1979 
23-10-1979 


Begin 01-01-1980 
26-12-1980 


01-01-1980 
19-01-1980 
18-02-1980 
10-03-1980 
03-05-1980 
20-06-1980 
16-08-1980 
06-10-1980 
27-10-1980 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 + 19 


Meena Kumari 


Ven-Mon 


Vimshottari (Short) AD and PD #3 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Ven-Mar 


Ven-Rah 


Ven-Jup 


Ven-Sat 


Begin 26-12-1980 
End 18-08-1982 


Begin 18-08-1982 


End 


12-10-1983 


Begin 12-10-1983 
26-09-1986 


Begin 26-09-1986 
End = 13-05-1989 


Begin 13-05-1989 


End 


26-06-1992 


Mon 26-12-1980 
14-02-1981 
21-03-1981 
19-06-1981 
07-09-1981 
11-12-1981 
06-03-1982 
10-04-1982 
19-07-1982 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


18-08-1982 
12-09-1982 
14-11-1982 
09-01-1983 
16-03-1983 
15-05-1983 
08-06-1983 
17-08-1983 
07-09-1983 


12-10-1983 
22-03-1984 
13-08-1984 
31-01-1985 
03-07-1985 
04-09-1985 
03-03-1986 
26-04-1986 
25-07-1986 


Jup 26-09-1986 
01-02-1987 
03-07-1987 
16-11-1987 
11-01-1988 
19-06-1988 
06-08-1988 
25-10-1988 
20-12-1988 


Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


13-05-1989 
10-11-1989 
20-04-1990 
26-06-1990 
02-01-1991 
28-02-1991 
03-06-1991 
08-08-1991 
26-01-1992 


Ven-Mer 


Ven-Ket 


Sun-Sun 


Sun-Mon 


Sun-Mar 


Begin 26-06-1992 
12-04-1995 


26-06-1992 
18-11-1992 
16-01-1993 
05-07-1993 
25-08-1993 
18-11-1993 
17-01-1994 
19-06-1994 
02-11-1994 


Sun-Rah 


Begin 12-04-1995 


05-06-1996 


12-04-1995 
07-05-1995 
16-07-1995 
06-08-1995 
10-09-1995 
04-10-1995 
06-12-1995 
31-01-1996 
07-04-1996 


Begin 05-06-1996 
21-09-1996 


05-06-1996 
11-06-1996 
20-06-1996 
26-06-1996 
12-07-1996 
27-07-1996 
13-08-1996 
28-08-1996 
03-09-1996 


Sun-Sat 


Begin 21-09-1996 
20-03-1997 


21-09-1996 
06-10-1996 
17-10-1996 
13-11-1996 
07-12-1996 
04-01-1997 
30-01-1997 
09-02-1997 
11-03-1997 


Sun-Mer 


Begin 20-03-1997 


24-07-1997 


20-03-1997 
28-03-1997 
16-04-1997 
02-05-1997 
22-05-1997 
09-06-1997 
16-06-1997 
07-07-1997 
14-07-1997 


Sun-Ket 


Begin 24-07-1997 
13-06-1998 


24-07-1997 
11-09-1997 
24-10-1997 
14-12-1997 
29-01-1998 
17-02-1998 
12-04-1998 
28-04-1998 
25-05-1998 


Begin 13-06-1998 


28-03-1999 


13-06-1998 
22-07-1998 
05-09-1998 
16-10-1998 
02-11-1998 
20-12-1998 
03-01-1999 
27-01-1999 
13-02-1999 


Begin 28-03-1999 
04-03-2000 


28-03-1999 
21-05-1999 
09-07-1999 
29-07-1999 
24-09-1999 
11-10-1999 
08-11-1999 
28-11-1999 
19-01-2000 


Begin 04-03-2000 
04-01-2001 


04-03-2000 
17-04-2000 
04-05-2000 
24-06-2000 
10-07-2000 
04-08-2000 
22-08-2000 
07-10-2000 
17-11-2000 


Begin 04-01-2001 


10-05-2001 


04-01-2001 
12-01-2001 
02-02-2001 
08-02-2001 
18-02-2001 
26-02-2001 
17-03-2001 
02-04-2001 
22-04-2001 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 « 20 


Meena Kumari 


Sun-Ven 


Vimshottari (Short) AD and PD #4 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mon-Mon 


Mon-Mar 


Mon-Rah 


Mon-Jup 


Begin 10-05-2001 


End 


05-05-2002 


Begin 05-05-2002 
01-03-2003 


Begin 01-03-2003 


End 


27-09-2003 


Begin 27-09-2003 
20-03-2005 


Begin 20-03-2005 
End 13-07-2006 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


10-05-2001 
09-07-2001 
27-07-2001 
26-08-2001 
16-09-2001 
09-11-2001 
27-12-2001 
22-02-2002 
14-04-2002 


05-05-2002 
30-05-2002 
17-06-2002 
01-08-2002 
10-09-2002 
27-10-2002 
09-12-2002 
26-12-2002 
14-02-2003 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


01-03-2003 
14-03-2003 
14-04-2003 
12-05-2003 
14-06-2003 
14-07-2003 
26-07-2003 
30-08-2003 
10-09-2003 


27-09-2003 
17-12-2003 
27-02-2004 
23-05-2004 
07-08-2004 
08-09-2004 
07-12-2004 
03-01-2005 
17-02-2005 


Jup = 20-03-2005 
23-05-2005 
07-08-2005 
14-10-2005 
11-11-2005 
30-01-2006 
23-02-2006 
04-04-2006 
02-05-2006 


Mon-Sat 


Mon-Mer 


Mon-Ket 


Mon-Ven 


Mon-Sun 


Begin 13-07-2006 


03-02-2008 


13-07-2006 
12-10-2006 
31-12-2006 
03-02-2007 
09-05-2007 
06-06-2007 
24-07-2007 
26-08-2007 
19-11-2007 


Begin 03-02-2008 
27-06-2009 


03-02-2008 
16-04-2008 
15-05-2008 
08-08-2008 
03-09-2008 
15-10-2008 
14-11-2008 
30-01-2009 
08-04-2009 


Begin 27-06-2009 


23-01-2010 


27-06-2009 
10-07-2009 
14-08-2009 
24-08-2009 
11-09-2009 
23-09-2009 
24-10-2009 
21-11-2009 
25-12-2009 


Begin 23-01-2010 
15-09-2011 


23-01-2010 
03-05-2010 
02-06-2010 
22-07-2010 
26-08-2010 
24-11-2010 
12-02-2011 
18-05-2011 
11-08-2011 


Mar-Sat 


Begin 15-09-2011 
13-03-2012 


15-09-2011 
24-09-2011 
09-10-2011 
20-10-2011 
16-11-2011 
10-12-2011 
07-01-2012 
02-02-2012 
12-02-2012 


Begin 13-03-2012 


07-08-2012 


13-03-2012 
22-03-2012 
13-04-2012 
02-05-2012 
26-05-2012 
16-06-2012 
24-06-2012 
19-07-2012 
26-07-2012 


Begin 07-08-2012 
20-08-2013 


07-08-2012 
03-10-2012 
22-11-2012 
21-01-2013 
16-03-2013 
07-04-2013 
09-06-2013 
28-06-2013 
29-07-2013 


Begin 20-08-2013 


22-07-2014 


20-08-2013 
04-10-2013 
26-11-2013 
13-01-2014 
01-02-2014 
29-03-2014 
15-04-2014 
13-05-2014 
02-06-2014 


Begin 22-07-2014 
25-08-2015 


22-07-2014 
23-09-2014 
19-11-2014 
12-12-2014 
17-02-2015 
09-03-2015 
11-04-2015 
04-05-2015 
03-07-2015 


25-08-2015 
16-08-2016 


25-08-2015 
15-10-2015 
05-11-2015 
03-01-2016 
21-01-2016 
20-02-2016 
12-03-2016 
04-05-2016 
21-06-2016 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 + 21 


Meena Kumari 


Mar-Ket 


Vimshottari (Short) AD and PD #5 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mar-Ven 


Mar-Sun 


Mar-Mon 


Rah-Rah 


Begin 16-08-2016 
End 10-01-2017 


Begin 10-01-2017 


End 


06-03-2018 


Begin 06-03-2018 
End 10-07-2018 


Begin 10-07-2018 
05-02-2019 


Begin 05-02-2019 
04-10-2021 


Ket 16-08-2016 
Ven 25-08-2016 
Sun = 18-09-2016 
Mon 26-09-2016 
08-10-2016 
17-10-2016 
08-11-2016 
27-11-2016 
20-12-2016 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


10-01-2017 
21-03-2017 
11-04-2017 
16-05-2017 
10-06-2017 
12-08-2017 
07-10-2017 
12-12-2017 
10-02-2018 


Sun —_- 06-03-2018 
Mon = 13-03-2018 
Mar 23-03-2018 
30-03-2018 
Jup 18-04-2018 
05-05-2018 
25-05-2018 
12-06-2018 
19-06-2018 


10-07-2018 
28-07-2018 
09-08-2018 
10-09-2018 
08-10-2018 
10-11-2018 
10-12-2018 
22-12-2018 
26-01-2019 


05-02-2019 
01-07-2019 
08-11-2019 
10-04-2020 
25-08-2020 
21-10-2020 
01-04-2021 
20-05-2021 
09-08-2021 


Rah-Jup 


Rah-Sat 


Rah-Mer 


Rah-Ket 


Rah-Ven 


Begin 04-10-2021 
15-02-2024 


04-10-2021 
27-01-2022 
13-06-2022 
14-10-2022 
03-12-2022 
26-04-2023 
08-06-2023 
19-08-2023 
09-10-2023 


Rah-Sun 


Begin 15-02-2024 


07-12-2026 


15-02-2024 
27-07-2024 
19-12-2024 
17-02-2025 
07-08-2025 
27-09-2025 
22-12-2025 
20-02-2026 
23-07-2026 


Rah-Mon 


Begin 07-12-2026 
12-06-2029 


07-12-2026 
16-04-2027 
09-06-2027 
09-11-2027 
25-12-2027 
10-03-2028 
03-05-2028 
18-09-2028 
18-01-2029 


Begin 12-06-2029 
25-06-2030 


12-06-2029 
04-07-2029 
05-09-2029 
24-09-2029 
26-10-2029 
17-11-2029 
12-01-2030 
04-03-2030 
03-05-2030 


Begin 25-06-2030 
09-06-2033 


25-06-2030 
22-12-2030 
14-02-2031 
15-05-2031 
17-07-2031 
26-12-2031 
18-05-2032 
05-11-2032 
07-04-2033 


Begin 09-06-2033 
29-04-2034 


09-06-2033 
25-06-2033 
22-07-2033 
10-08-2033 
28-09-2033 
10-11-2033 
31-12-2033 
15-02-2034 
06-03-2034 


Begin 29-04-2034 


21-10-2035 


29-04-2034 
13-06-2034 
15-07-2034 
04-10-2034 
15-12-2034 
10-03-2035 
26-05-2035 
26-06-2035 
24-09-2035 


Begin 21-10-2035 
02-11-2036 


21-10-2035 
12-11-2035 
08-01-2036 
27-02-2036 
27-04-2036 
20-06-2036 
12-07-2036 
13-09-2036 
02-10-2036 


Begin 02-11-2036 
10-12-2038 


02-11-2036 
13-02-2037 
14-06-2037 
01-10-2037 
15-11-2037 
23-03-2038 
30-04-2038 
03-07-2038 
17-08-2038 


Begin 10-12-2038 
09-06-2041 


10-12-2038 
04-05-2039 
10-09-2039 
02-11-2039 
02-04-2040 
18-05-2040 
02-08-2040 
24-09-2040 
08-02-2041 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 « 22 


Meena Kumari (3a Yogini (Short) MD and AD #1 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 
Dasha balance at birth: Pingala 2y 2m 19d 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. *Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Pingala (2y) 0 yrs.* Dhanya (3y) Oy2m Bhramari (4y) 3y2m 
g y. ya WY 


Beginning Beginning 20-10-1932 Beginning 05-10-1935 
Ending 20-10-1932 Ending 05-10-1935 Ending 14-09-1939 
Pingala Dhanya 20-10-1932 Bhramari 05-10-1935 
Dhanya Bhramari 18-01-1933 Bhadrika 13-03-1936 
Bhramari Bhadrika 18-05-1933 Ulka 29-09-1936 
Bhadrika Ulka 15-10-1933 Siddha 27-05-1937 
Ulka Siddha 13-04-1934 Sankata 03-03-1938 
Siddha Sankata 09-11-1934 Mangala 17-01-1939 
Sankata 01-08-1932 Mangala 07-07-1935 Pingala 26-02-1939 
Mangala 30-09-1932 Pingala 06-08-1935 Dhanya 17-05-1939 


Bhadrika (Sy) TyIm ——_ Ullka (6y) 12y0m ‘Siddha (Ty) 17y11m 
y y y 


Beginning 14-09-1939 Beginning 18-08-1944 Beginning 18-07-1950 
Ending 18-08-1944 Ending 18-07-1950 Ending 11-06-1957 
Bhadrika 14-09-1939 Ulka 18-08-1944 Siddha 18-07-1950 
Ulka 21-05-1940 Siddha 13-08-1945 Sankata 20-11-1951 
Siddha 17-03-1941 Sankata 07-10-1946 Mangala 02-06-1953 
Sankata 02-03-1942 Mangala 30-01-1948 Pingala 11-08-1953 
Mangala 06-04-1943 Pingala 30-03-1948 Dhanya 29-12-1953 
Pingala 26-05-1943 Dhanya 28-07-1948 Bhramari 27-07-1954 
Dhanya 03-09-1943 Bhramari 24-01-1949 Bhadrika 03-05-1955 
Bhramari 31-01-1944 Bhadrika 21-09-1949 Ulka 17-04-1956 


Sankata (8y) 24y10m Mangala (ly) 32y8m Pingala (2y) 33y8m 


Beginning 11-06-1957 Beginning 30-04-1965 Beginning 25-04-1966 
Ending 30-04-1965 Ending 25-04-1966 Ending 14-04-1968 
Sankata 11-06-1957 Mangala 30-04-1965 Pingala 25-04-1966 
Mangala 13-03-1959 Pingala 10-05-1965 Dhanya 04-06-1966 
Pingala 01-06-1959 Dhanya 30-05-1965 Bhramari 03-08-1966 
Dhanya 08-11-1959 Bhramari 29-06-1965 Bhadrika 22-10-1966 
Bhramari 05-07-1960 Bhadrika 08-08-1965 Ulka 30-01-1967 
Bhadrika 21-05-1961 Ulka 27-09-1965 Siddha 30-05-1967 
Ulka 25-06-1962 Siddha 26-11-1965 Sankata 17-10-1967 
Siddha 18-10-1963 Sankata 04-02-1966 Mangala 25-03-1968 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 ¢ 23 


Meena Kumari Yogini (Short) MD and AD #2 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Dhanya (3y) 


Beginning 
Ending 


35y8m* 


14-04-1968 
30-03-1971 


Bhramari (4y) 


Beginning 
Ending 


38y7m 


30-03-1971 
09-03-1975 


Bhadrika (Sy) 


Beginning 
Ending 


42y7m 


09-03-1975 
11-02-1980 


Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 


14-04-1968 
13-07-1968 
10-11-1968 
09-04-1969 
06-10-1969 
04-05-1970 
30-12-1970 
29-01-1971 


Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 


30-03-1971 
06-09-1971 
24-03-1972 
19-11-1972 
26-08-1973 
12-07-1974 
21-08-1974 
09-11-1974 


Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 


09-03-1975 
14-11-1975 
09-09-1976 
25-08-1977 
29-09-1978 
18-11-1978 
26-02-1979 
26-07-1979 


Ulka (6y) 


47y6m 


Siddha (7y) 


53y5m 


Sankata (8y) 


60y4m 


Beginning 
Ending 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 


Mangala (ly) 


11-02-1980 
10-01-1986 
11-02-1980 
05-02-1981 
01-04-1982 
25-07-1983 
23-09-1983 
21-01-1984 
19-07-1984 
16-03-1985 


68y2m 


Beginning 
Ending 
Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 


Pingala (2y) 


10-01-1986 
04-12-1992 
10-01-1986 
15-05-1987 
25-11-1988 
03-02-1989 
23-06-1989 
19-01-1990 
26-10-1990 
11-10-1991 


69y2m 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 


Dhanya (3y) 


04-12-1992 
23-10-2000 
04-12-1992 
05-09-1994 
24-11-1994 
03-05-1995 
29-12-1995 
13-11-1996 
18-12-1997 
12-04-1999 


71y2m 


Beginning 
Ending 
Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 


23-10-2000 
18-10-2001 
23-10-2000 
02-11-2000 
22-11-2000 
22-12-2000 
31-01-2001 
22-03-2001 
21-05-2001 
30-07-2001 


Beginning 
Ending 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 


18-10-2001 
08-10-2003 
18-10-2001 
27-11-2001 
26-01-2002 
16-04-2002 
25-07-2002 
22-11-2002 
11-04-2003 
18-09-2003 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Beginning 
Ending 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 
Mangala 
Pingala 


08-10-2003 
22-09-2006 
08-10-2003 
06-01-2004 
05-05-2004 
02-10-2004 
31-03-2005 
27-10-2005 
24-06-2006 
24-07-2006 


HP2 + 24 


Meena Kumari 


Ashtottari MD and AD 


Ashtottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Sun (6y) 
From 0 yrs. to 3ylm 


Moon (15y) 


From 3ylmto 17yl0m 


: Sun 3y Im 14d 
: Su-Sa-Ve-Sa-Sa 


Mars (8y) 
From 17y10m to25y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun - 
Moon - 
Mars - 
Mercury - 
Saturn 01-08-1932 - 09-11-1932 
Jupiter 09-11-1932 - 24-11-1933 
Rahu = 24-11-1933 - 22-07-1934 
Venus 22-07-1934 - 15-09-1935 


Moon 15-09-1935 - 04-10-1937 
Mars 04-10-1937 - 08-11-1938 
Mercury08-11-1938 - 07-03-1941 
Saturn 07-03-1941 - 20-07-1942 
Jupiter 20-07-1942 - 24-02-1945 
Rahu 24-02-1945 - 17-10-1946 
Venus 17-10-1946 - 01-09-1949 
Sun 01-09-1949 - 28-06-1950 


Mars 28-06-1950 - 27-01-1951 
Mercury27-01-1951 - 25-04-1952 
Saturn 25-04-1952 - 16-01-1953 
Jupiter 16-01-1953 - 07-06-1954 
Rahu 07-06-1954 - 23-04-1955 
Venus 23-04-1955 - 03-11-1956 
Sun = 03-11-1956 - 12-04-1957 
Moon 12-04-1957 - 17-05-1958 


Mercury (17y) 
From 25y9m to 42y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercuryl 7-05-1958 - 04-01-1961 


Saturn 04-01-1961 - 25-07-1962 
Jupiter 25-07-1962 - 06-07-1965 
Rahu 06-07-1965 - 17-05-1967 
Venus 17-05-1967 - 19-08-1970 
Sun 19-08-1970 - 25-07-1971 
Moon 25-07-1971 - 21-11-1973 


Mars 21-11-1973 - 17-02-1975 


Rahu (12y) 


Saturn (10y) 
From 42y6m to 52y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 17-02-1975 - 16-01-1976 
Jupiter 16-01-1976 - 11-10-1977 
Rahu 11-10-1977 - 15-11-1978 
Venus 15-11-1978 - 15-10-1980 
Sun 15-10-1980 - 03-05-1981 
Moon 03-05-1981 - 15-09-1982 
Mars 15-09-1982 - 08-06-1983 
Mercury08-06-1983 - 26-12-1984 


Venus (21y) 


Jupiter (19y) 
From 52y4m to 7lylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Jupiter 26-12-1984 - 12-04-1988 
Rahu = 12-04-1988 - 12-05-1990 
Venus 12-05-1990 - 01-01-1994 
Sun 01-01-1994 - 16-01-1995 
Moon 16-01-1995 - 23-08-1997 
Mars 23-08-1997 - 12-01-1999 
Mercuryl 2-01-1999 - 24-12-2001 
Saturn 24-12-2001 - 18-09-2003 


Except in Lagna, Rahu in Kendra or Trikona from Lagna lord.. Birth during day-time in Krishna Paksha or night-time in Shukla Paksha. 


From 7lylmto 82yllm 


From 82y11m to 103y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu = 18-09-2003 - 10-01-2005 
Venus 10-01-2005 - 30-04-2007 
Sun 30-04-2007 - 26-12-2007 
Moon 26-12-2007 - 17-08-2009 
Mars 17-08-2009 - 03-07-2010 
Mercury03-07-2010 - 13-05-2012 
Saturn 13-05-2012 - 17-06-2013 
Jupiter 17-06-2013 - 17-07-2015 


Venus 17-07-2015 - 26-07-2019 
Sun 26-07-2019 - 18-09-2020 
Moon 18-09-2020 - 04-08-2023 
Mars 04-08-2023 - 14-02-2025 
Mercuryl 4-02-2025 - 19-05-2028 
Saturn 19-05-2028 - 19-04-2030 
Jupiter 19-04-2030 - 09-12-2033 
Rahu 09-12-2033 - 28-03-2036 


*Condition of Applicability of Ashtottari Dasha : 


In your horoscope Ashtottari dasha does apply. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 « 25 


Meena Kumari 


Life Interpretation Report for Meena Kumari 


Although occasionally headstrong and combative, you are an everlasting good friend to all 
who meet you. You are just, kind, courteous, and for the most part honest, and you need 
friends to pass the time pleasantly. Even when your friends misbehave with you, you quickly 
forgive them, and so naturally, you gain ultimately and are always in demand. You are 
subject to sudden passions, which also die out quickly which may be for an unusual partner. 
Relationships take you into higher levels of development and prosperity improves after 
marriage. You have to watch a tendency to be unscrupulous in business as the resulting harm 
to your reputation can cut you off from your public. 


You have an expressive personality. You have a good character and a pleasant nature. Your 
personality is smooth. You are good humored and easy going. You are an outdoor type. You 
are optimistic about evaluating the outcome of situations. 


You are tolerant of others foibles and can be very generous. You are loving and well 
centered. You try to involve as many people as possible in your undertakings for their 
benefit. 


You are a calm person. You are a quiet person. You are a person of depth. You are subtle. If 
a given situation is taking care of your needs, you will be very reluctant to give it up until you 
have secured a new solution. Security is very important to you, and you take conservative 
actions to ensure that you are provided for later on. Politically, you have a traditional 
mindset. 


Your temperament is sincere. You love truth but may go too far in your zeal and become a 
propagandist. You have a sophisticated sense of aesthetics and moral conduct. You take the 
moral high ground. You have a life philosophy, based on fairness, optimism, beauty, and 
peace. Because you can act on inner faith, you can receive benefits without blocking them 
with fear. There may be sparks of insight in detecting marvelous opportunities for prosperity, 
and the right people to advance that process. You will be able to express great intelligence, 
wisdom, strength, and courage in your activities. Being intuitive and sensitive, you appreciate 
things that are of true quality. You may have a vague aspect to your personality but you are 
clear-minded and geared for success. You are a settled and organized person. 


You are energetic. You are assertive. You are courageous. You are strong, with independent 
views on life, its purpose, and evolutionary direction. You are an enterprising person. You 
are very impulsive. Bent on accomplishing your goals, you may seem ruthless or 
hardhearted. Your energy and motivation are quite balanced. You have an aristocratic 
temperament. You always want to be the center of attention. 


You can be domineering. You are mentally arrogant, but deservedly so. You influence others 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 26 


Meena Kumari 


attempting to practice piety, although your motives involve a need for real transformation from the 
depths. You see new opportunities for prosperity everywhere you go. 


Your way of getting around in the world is unique. 


You may be somewhat iconoclastic as far as religion and tradition are concerned. When under 
oppressive influences you can be stubborn, argumentative, and annoying. 


You are a private person and do not like to show your hurts and injuries to others. Your impulsiveness 
may lead you to immoral acts. It is hard to meet your scheduling commitments. 


You lack patience. You may lack the discipline necessary to complete a college degree. You have an 
angry kind of righteousness, and when you are acting according to the righteous judgments and values, 
you tend to act harshly and even aggressively. You are an aggressive person. You tend to be critical. 


You could be a shy person. You may characteristically feel lonely, miserable, or unhappy. 


You are a person who finds it hard to just relax and enjoy yourself. You are very perceptive, but 
fluctuate from being extremely logical to very emotional. When conditions are poor, you can be totally 
blown off track. 


You always seem to have too many demands to meet. You may find that you have to work a bit in order 
to avoid inconsistency or a tendency to drift. 


You are not easily affected by negativity. In your heart, you are generally a content person. 
Understanding life and using your intelligence soothes your heart and gives you inner comfort. Being 
important will give you a deep sense of fulfillment. You will always have a happy, emotionally fulfilled 
side to you. Lively and open situations are conducive to the fulfillment of your desires. You gain in 
happiness as you gain in years. You will get success and happiness mostly after the age of 35. 


Your body is large. You are well proportioned. You have a good complexion. Your complexion is pale. 
You have a swarthy complexion. You have beautiful eyes. Your calves are well developed. 


You observe others' dress and mannerisms and tend to mimic them, but you are better off knowing your 
own needs and ability and limiting yourself to them. 


You will be very feminine in the way you act. 


You may have a nasal or grainy voice. You are a good speaker. You can express yourself well. 


You are articulate and witty. You seem to turn on a subtle power when you speak, make sure you use 
integrity with this ability or it will backfire on you. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 27 


Meena Kumari 


Your speech can be rough and unpolished. 


You work with your brain and speech. 


You have a strong mind. Because of the strength of your mind, it is agile, imaginative, original, fertile, 
creative, extremely emotional, and receptive. Your thinking is bold and result oriented. You are known 
for your enlightened mind, your contemplative temperament, and your all-around culture. Your mind is 
intelligent, and capable of great optimism and valor. You tend to be fickle-minded and your success can 
vary enormously depending on the changing balance between your inner psychology and events in the 
outer world. 


You tend to dream about practical impossibilities. 


You use your mind and discrimination to open new opportunities for you, and lead you to new 
resources. Your thought process could become imbalanced at times, leading to narrow-mindedness, 
depression, or delusions. 


There may be slight tinge of perversion to the mind. Your mind is inclined to unusual, and even 
eccentric, interests. Sometimes you lose nerve inexplicably. 


Your mind is constantly occupied with plans to improve your material comforts and satisfy your 
desires. 


You do not get easily upset. You have a strong sense of ethics and morals. You have much sympathy 
and you think from your heart. You may feel a sense of inner peace and tranquility. You are 
comfortable, content, and well aware of your emotional needs. You have a strong need for emotional 
intimacy. You are acutely sensitive to every change in the outward world. The people and environment 
around you easily influence you. Your greatest need is to be understood and loved. 


You are given to moods and whims. Emotionally you are more prepared to be hurt than happy. Some 
connections may prove confusing to you. 


Those less brilliant than you put you off. You always muse about your past when emotionally upset. 
You have an instinctive consciousness but you can be easily swayed by your senses. Sometimes you are 
stuck in congestion. 


You find your way in the world through your feelings, are introverted on subjective issues and 
everything that you experience is held in memory. 


You are shrewd and although not literary or particularly humanistic. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 28 


Meena Kumari (3 


You have a sharp intelligence, very capable of penetrating obscure or hard to get knowledge. 
Using the intellect and logical mind is an important facet of your work. 


You really try hard to impress others with your intellect, and this showy cleverness may occasionally 
lead to conflict in which you are humiliated. 


You can be mentally disorganized. 


A 5 wal 
Education occupies a focal point in your life. Education Ore you is an endeavor that yields a good 


degree. Education has gone well and equipped you excellently for your station in life. Your early 
education was thorough. Education and any learning process is a rewarding experience for you. Any 
money spent on education and training will pay off well. 


Your teachers and mentors are clever, articulate, remarkable communicators, and have a broad scope to 
what they do. 


You are a student of ancestral wisdom. The study of philosophical or religious topics is enjoyable to 
you. Higher studies are enjoyable for you, especially in the arts. 


You will have trouble in getting education. Even if your education is not great, you can discuss deep 
subjects well enough. Part of your studies will be in topics that most people would not care or dare to 
deal with. 


You are successful in school. 


You may have some deep knowledge or insights in the area of mechanical structures. You may have a 
savage thirst for knowledge that deprives you of friends and people who could share your thoughts. You 
have positive, rewarding experiences in the field of knowledge and education, formal or informal. You 
have a good knowledge of law. You have knowledge of some very tricky or illusionary phenomena. You 
have good knowledge of the field of healing and perhaps the law. 


You enjoy learning. You prefer to learn in a non-traditional setting such as on your own or through 
independent study. Learning is a lifelong pursuit. 


You are able to absorb knowledge like a sponge and you retain what you learn easily. You are 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 29 


Meena Kumari 


extraordinarily skillful when you put your mind to a job. Through your skill, you will meet success in 
your undertakings. Not only are you able to grasp many subjects, you are very capable of taking a wide 
comprehensive view of all you learn. 


You are skilled at participating in group activities and understand the mindset of society as a whole. You 
are able to explain the view of management or power centers to a wider audience. 


You are a good organizer and manager, and can be very practical, frugal, and careful in money matters. 
You have good judgment in seizing opportunities and often expanding the possibilities in the process. 
You are able to make proper judgments concerning human relationships. Your social skills are well 
developed and balanced. 

You may have skill in chemistry, pharmacology, or computer science. 


There is a sense of rhythm in you, which shows in the areas of poetry, athletics music, or dance. 


You are successful in financial dealings. You have the ability to create growth and expansion of profits. 


It's hard for you to establish the proper connections needed to allow for successful undertakings. 


You like the arts and are blessed with various skills. You will enjoy having a garden or some other 


agricultural involvement. 


You may have a flair for sports, contests, and technical skills. 


You have a practical attitude. You may seem very rough and hard in your behavior externally, but are 
very soft and gentle inside. You are quick and clever where it comes to taking advantage of 
opportunities. You are hard working and steady in your gradual progress. You strongly feel like a role 
model and an ideal citizen. 


You like to act according to ethical norms and principles. You are truthful and interested in the events 
affecting society. You perform good deeds, commanding respect and you try to be beneficial to your 
community. You are bound to perform many good deeds for the good of society. You are respectful. You 
may help your teachers or mentors and further their methods or teachings in some way. 


You are an excellent listener. You are an acute listener. Sometimes you go for peace at any cost. 


You can be haughty sometimes. You can be disrespectful toward your father, teachers, and employer at 
times. You may be a little tightfisted when it comes to supporting the welfare of those less fortunate. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 30 


Meena Kumari (3a 


You enjoy domestic life and puttering around the house. You like pure, clear, sharp air, such as is found 
on mountaintops. 


You are interested in the latest technological pursuits like Internet surfing or web designing. You like 
all that which is foreign and strange. You like exploring the mysteries of life but to express those 
thoughts in the format of religious or philosophical terms might make you feel vulnerable. You choose 
to keep those experiences to yourself. You are interested in knowing about past lives. You like to help 
scholars and artists. You crave independence. It is likely that you prefer to 'do your own thing’. You like 
to set goals and often achieve them. You aspire to make something great out of your life. 


You have a feeling for the arts, film etc. You are fond of nature, beauty, poetry, and literature. 


You are likely to have a love for religious or spiritual practices, and a deep love for the truth about 
everything. You have a liking for ancient wisdom, philosophy, and meditation. You like to think about 
the beauty of the higher order in life, and will find some way to express a devotional religious side. 


You may have a liking for animals. You raise animals that are affectionate towards you and benefit from 
them. 


The area of higher knowledge, philosophy, or religion might feel uncomfortable to you. You find 
working for an employer unsatisfactory. You have an instinctive dislike for change, originating from a 
certain fear of the unknown and the untested. 


Your physical body demands a lot of attention and respect, for good or bad. Your physical condition 
may be fragile, and your emotional depression may seriously affect the state of your health. 


It will be good if you are careful not to pick up negative vibrations from others or from the atmosphere, 
as this can depress you or make you sick. There may be some complex stomach problems. Disorders you 
are susceptible to include: lower back pain, arthritis, kidney disorders, arthritis, and venereal diseases. 
You may be subject to some of the following health challenges: spinal problems, bladder infections, 
sterility, hernias, hysterectomy, kidney problems, abortion, or miscarriage. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 « 31 


Meena Kumari 


You are vulnerable to accidents, so carry good insurance. Serious accidents involving vehicles are not 
likely. Be careful when swimming or playing in water. You should be cautious to avoid a possibility of a 
water related accident. You should be careful while boating. 


L ( =v 
You stay connected to your parents. You are a good daughter to your parents. You are on good terms 
with your parents and family life prospers. 


Judicious and self-controlled although outgoing and a devoted companion, your mother is zealous to 
create secure conditions for close ones and her. She is a balanced businessperson likely to have a strong 
and striking partner. She self-promotes through her highly organized skills and has expertise in exact 
processes and technical functions. Travel stimulates her eye for antiquities and cultural refinements. 
Despite a restless temperament, your mother has methodical work habits and looks deeply into matters 
connected to earthy, practical, technical, or financial matters. She is attentive to her duty and utilizes 
advanced knowledge in achieving her objectives. She has spiritual inclinations, which others recognize, 
and she applies her intelligence toward her children, students, or those with whom she has favorable 
past-life karmas, who may turn out to be her employers. Your mother's position improves over time, 
although she may have to slog through periods of restricted development. She cares for the masses and 
the underdogs, and finds practical and organized ways of giving where she thinks it will does most good. 
She may clash with the orthodox and established viewpoint and rebel against legal conventions, but 
whichever side she is on she has a keen awareness of what is the traditional and expected and accepted 
mode of behavior. She puts some of her best thinking and planning into her career. Her partner may 
have high standing and assets that expand over time, but there may be some restrictions in the 
relationship. She works with influential people in their field and garners plenty of respect in her position 
as it becomes obvious that she is sincere in her charitable outlook. Promoting family values is important 
and she has a strong respect for material success. Your mother is a social animal. Your mother is 
ambitious in a cautious way. Your mother is generally methodical. Your mother can put things into 
effect with quick execution. Hard working, patient, and tactful, your mother is an exemplar of 
steadiness. Your mother is slow and persevering. Each time your mother realizes a goal, she gets new 
challenges that make her reach for a higher and more complicated goal. Your mother is the consummate 
self-made woman. Your mother has an affinity for her motherland and its philosophies. 


Having no control over her tongue, your mother thoughtlessly blurts out whatever she wants. 


Having an executive mind, your mother has decided opinions about the conduct of the government, 
usually not favorable opinions. For all her ambition, your mother is somewhat detached from her own 
achievements. Your mother is a good cook. Your mother may need a long time to let go of regrets and 
perceived mistakes. Your mother will probably have a long life. Your mother needs to learn to cooperate 
constructively with the higher powers guiding outward manifestation. Your mother may be very 
encouraging and urging you on to achieve greater heights. Your mother may have assisted you toward 
attaining your goals. You may take after your mother. Your mother is very important to you, and your 
emotional stability is founded on good early life experiences with her. Your mother's family is 
supportive of you and your good works are gratifying to your mother and community. There is a lack of 
emotional nurturing from your mother, and your mother may have had a difficult life, or may have had to 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 32 


Meena Kumari 


carry on in isolation. 


Great communications skills added to a genial disposition and a trendy mentality make your father a 
sparkling dinner companion. He is humorous, witty, sarcastic, digressive, literary, satirical, and 
generally celebrates life with all its quirks. He has a wise sense of people and an ability to edit or 
embellish everyone's remarks to make them telling. He attracts intelligent people and likes to record and 
talk about the complexities of marital life or partnerships. Fortune, life, and career can take him on 
distant travels or put him into expansive associations. Rather than follow spiritual routines, he would 
rather communicate about spiritual and philosophical matters, or write travel diaries. Analytical, focused 
dissection is your father's habit of mind, and mental discipline is his strengths. He keeps within the 
proper scope of things, following instructions literally and using numbers and words to good effect. He 
can become compulsive or immobilized by information overload and can be fatigued by too many 
obligations. His communications are thorough and technical, and he may be insensitive to those near to 
him. Used to generating income through service occupations such as healing or work in communications 
or legal offices, he acquires merit by his self-restraint and ease in dealing with high levels of knowledge 
and understanding. He has been lucky to get very good teachers, and probably has benefited from his 
father's supportive attitude. He can handle detail others find tedious and improve by structuring his daily 
routines. Your father generally takes an intellectual approach to things. Living in a mental world, your 
father shrinks from physical contact and injury and can be intimidated by a show of violence. Your 
father has an astonishingly active subjective life, which may not show on his face; outwardly, he may 
seem unperturbed. Your father likes hot-air balloons, circuses, games, and other amusements. Your 
father may be adventurous. Your father is flexible and adaptable; his mood can change from trivial to 
serious depending on the circumstances. Your father's imagination is captured by the glory of the past or 
the promise of the future, keeping his heart elsewhere. Your father likes life to be intense. Boxes, chests, 


receptacles, and any gadget with contents intrigue your father. 


Your father may not stay with one opinion or attitude for very long. Ambivalence is your father's 
outstanding feature; no one is sure whether he has made up his mind, including himself. Because of your 
father's dual nature, at times he is pensive and patient and at times lively and garrulous. In argument your 
father is most formidable, because he can skip from one facet of a subject to another seemingly at random 
yet never losing sight of the main argument, which he returns to after having led his opponent through 
devious paths and into traps. Your father can be bashful and hesitant in speech, because speaking his 
mind is so meaningful for him. Your father may be a frequent traveler or live abroad. You come from a 
good background and your father may have a certain status. 


You father is a person you look up to with respect, and you have a good relationship with him. You may 
find it hard to accept him as senior to you. Frequent arguments may occur between you and your father. 
You may be separated from your father's home or contact due to forces beyond your control that may 
come from realms of deep psychological transformation or from embarking on a quest that he cannot 
follow you on. Your father's assistance may be unavailable due to circumstances beyond your control. 


You are rooted in your heritage and it is an important part of your identity. Your family, relatives, and 
close friends hold a very important place in your life. You may be the family keystone, the pivot of 
family dynamics whether willing or not. You are a quiet source of strength to your friends and family. In 
a domestic environment, you will often be the one to keep up the rules or provide basic support that you 
feel is imperative for others. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 33 


Meena Kumari 


You are home loving and much attached to your family. You easily incur heavy responsibilities through 
family affairs and the home. Your family members and your partner may create obstacles in your work. 


You may have good communication with an older sibling. 


You might have some struggle with your siblings and some strain and worry in your relationship with 
your mother and father. Siblings may accuse you of being selfish or conceited; while you feel, you are 
trying to keep them in line. You may have siblings or dependents that are extravagant and deplete your 
assets. You are concerned for your siblings. 


Your older sibling, if you have one, may face some severe trouble. Your older sibling may be your rival, 
or your relationship may be characterized with rivalry. You may be hostile to an older sibling or already 
established colleagues. Your elder sibling may be prosperous or hold a high position. Your older sibling 
is probably career-oriented and could have a high and powerful position. Your older sibling's career may 
involve foreign travel or connections. You have older siblings who help you materially with the 
business. Your closest older sibling may suffer from heat, fevers, inflammation, cuts, and injuries or may 
need surgery at some time. 


You may be very close to one younger sibling. Younger siblings, however, are somewhat distant. 


You are highly romantic and extravagant. You can be possessive in love. You expect easy success with 
the opposite sex. Relationships will always be a great source of experience and knowledge in your life 
and you will meet a wide range of people. 


You might be very easy-going about getting romantically involved. You are prone to play the field and 
find it hard to choose one partner to stick with. 


You are more or less happy with your spouse. You put your work over your material comforts but still 
manage to enjoy the benefits of a good marriage, home, and children. Your spouse is a true friend. Your 


marriage goes through highs and lows. 


It is hard to find a place where you and your romantic partner can spend time together undisturbed. 


Your husband is agile and lithe. Your spouse will bring wisdom into your life and a new horizon of 
ideas and concepts. It's more natural to argue for your husband than to concede a point. Your husband is 
keen to give advice. 


Your husband has a blind faith in religion. 


In an impulsive rush to get to the truth your husband seizes overly simplistic answers and tries to get 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 « 34 


Meena Kumari 


everyone to jump on the bandwagon. Your spouse may be a performer of some kind and is somewhat 
fickle. You may marry a foreigner. 


This is because the way you express your feelings and emotions is quite appealing. You feel attracted to 
those people who can show you higher knowledge or values in life. You may subconsciously feel as if 
you are in competition with your friends. You like to spend money on your friends, but sometimes their 
problems create trouble for you. You may keep your friends at a distance. 


Your friends will include doctors, lawyers, college professors, clergymen, and anyone who is erudite 
and wise. You tend to be very personal and loyal to your friends. 


You like to hang out with an artsy crowd. You are successful in friendship. Friends or older siblings 
may assist you in your career. You get along with most people, but you are particularly attracted to 
intellectuals and artists. Friendships are based on a recognition of your skills, or shared training 
regimens. You have more advanced colleagues who help you materially with the business. You have a 


wide circle of friends and prefer to do business on a handshake. You have a strong need for close 
friendships. 


You may have many enemies or competitors and friends may be untrustworthy. Persons who you 
thought would support you may turn out to be opponents in disguise. Your enemies or opponents suffer 
health problems or are embroiled in legal disputes that keep them from being able to take you on. You 
may find that many of the opportunities you have for gaining resources is through your opponents or 
competitors. Surprising as it may seem you are likely to earn well through these avenues. Other 
opportunities might actually have more obstacles for you. 


There is something very distinctive about your body which determines part of the response people have 
towards you. Others sometimes find you to be crude or rude, which may hold you back from deserved 
promotions. 


You will acquire a good reputation, honor, be well liked and even gain fame for your good deeds. You 
let your personal aspirations often yield to the needs of the society as a whole. Being socially 
unbalanced, you crave social contact and the assurance that others need you. 


You are very hospitable and like to entertain others at home. You may tend to distance yourself from 
those who have been close to you in your early years. There will always be wise and supportive people in 
your life who help you fulfill your goals. Your students may feel alternately fascinated and abandoned by 
you. The main relationships in your life will bring you some higher insight into the purpose and 
evolution of life. Cultivate sensitivity to others, or you may become hardhearted. 


You are liked by foreigners. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 35 


Meena Kumari 


- 
You are keen about getting ahead and finding your fortune in life. You are career and status minded. 
You work most efficiently. You are very true to your career aspirations and faithfully follow up on them 
until you succeed. You carefully plan the phases of your career. 


You will acquire proper education and may choose this as your professional field. You are qualified for 
many types of work because of a natural sophistication. The enterprise you are involved in has to 
struggle against a sense of time limitations. You will be skillful in all aspects of your career and unafraid 
to explore new ventures to enhance your success. You may teach children and executives. 


You are engaged in business, which may be widespread, but does not generate large profits. Your work 
will involve administrative duties and give you great opportunities to rise in status. You go for the 
jugular in your business activities. Business is on an upward curve, always improving. 


You may be disruptive to organizations as you can be a maverick or rebel. 
You like your boss. Your employers and teachers may be from foreign countries. 
People that you employ are generally satisfied with your role as a boss. 


You have a fine balance between work and play. You have many jobs and feel a sense of mission. You 
may become a workaholic. Your work brings you into contact with groups and organizations which go 
through dramatic tests and trials. Some nurturing or caring aspect will be part of your work, and likely 
you will be involved with the public or groups of people. You will have a very successful career in 
psychology, counseling, restaurant or bar work, or anything in which one deals with the public every 
day. 


You may attain fame. You may hold a position of authority in your community. You are likely to see a 
big change in status during your lifetime. You occupy a seat of power in your community or larger 

arena. Needless to say, your reputation and status play an important role in your life, and you are bound 
to get far, attain power and influence and good relationship with the ruling powers. There will be great 
opportunities presented to you by people of high status in society or by the ruling powers. You are 
appreciated by people in power. You are destined to gain respect in society. You will be famous and 
respected. Your undertakings will be well supported and successful. You are generally lucky in getting 
results. You will enjoy the happiness of success many times in life and fame may come with it. You will 
be successful in fulfilling your goals in unforeseen ways. Your success will come gradually as a result of 
a lot of physical effort. Eventually, you will be successful due to the deep lore you acquire that others 


will find useful. 


Results and gains come at the proper time. Obstructions in your work cause great chagrin. You have 
much success, although there can be delays in seeing the fruits of your work. You may have challenges 
to face in acquiring or maintaining the position you want. You prefer to pursue several lines of work 
and/or study simultaneously and may become easily bored. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 36 


Meena Kumari 


You will be famous, respected and be hard to defeat by anyone. Your approach to work will make you 
rise in authority and reputation in the profession of your choice. Good relationships with authorities or 
government will develop. 


NER HF 
You will earn income in a variety of ways, but al 
rivals, competitors or enemies. 
You are always alert to selfishly increase your income and seize any opportunity. Your own efforts and 
wisdom are instrumental to gain and building an income. You will be in command of significant 
resources. You may earn huge profits during some favorable cycles of your life. Inflow of cash is usually 


not a problem 


At other times your income will experience some slow periods. You will get results and income through 
hard work. 


In the end you will have a stable income. 


Friends and friendships will contribute to your income. 

You will be able to handle well any worries in your mind that arise concerning your income. You will 
try hard to gain a good income. You will earn a lot of money from your work. Sometimes, enterprises 
you have embarked on, with the hope of gains, turn out to bring losses. 


You are fond of money and material possessions. You have problems with vehicles breaking down. 


Property, land or real estate, will come easily to you and you will enjoy basic comforts all your life. You 
may invest in land and property. You will have many houses. 


You should not spend too much on cosmetics and adornments. 


You can be quite intense and defensive about your spiritual or religious views. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 ¢ 37 


Meena Kumari (3 


Teaching spirituality is also possible. You may go deep into researches in a spiritual field. 


Your soul soars as you communicate insights coming from sources beyond the everyday. Having a 
strong connection to the astral plane, you sometimes live in the clouds. Occult subjects hold a fascination 
for you. You are probably interested in the occult, metaphysical subjects and astrology, etc. There may 
also be an inclination for abstract philosophy or spiritual knowledge. 


You may have some hidden inner subtle spiritual powers. 


You worship an all-protecting deity. You worship in private and secret. You have strong feelings for 
religious and cultural traditions. You can be very psychic and you are interested in reading scriptures. 


You may go through periods of severe doubt or atheism. You are non-appreciative towards religious 
values. You may be eclectic in matters of religion and spirit and offend those who are fundamentalist or 


purist. 


You may live in old and torn housing. Finding a stable place to live may be difficult. You need to work 
on improving your environment. 


You have a liking for travelling. You are very restless, changeable and are fond of wandering and 
travelling; you will have many changes in your life. You are fond of water, lakes or sea, and may go ona 
voyage but always love to come back to your home. You love long distance travelling. Travel for 
educational or spiritual purposes can turn out to be very beneficial as well as socially enjoyable. You 
prefer not to spread yourself too thin by excessive travelling. Travel is problematic. 


You will maintain a tie to your past and to your roots, even though you may actually leave your place of 
birth. As a child you may have suffered from sickness, although gaining full health later. 


Many of the opportunities for the fulfillment of your ambitions may get lost, or prove to be dead-ends, 
yielding disappointment on your part. Your life feels like a struggle sometimes. 


Your actions tend to be supported by good luck. 


You have good support of nature. Nature has bestowed you with success and wealth, although your 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 ° 38 


Meena Kumari 


fortunes will fluctuate. You are financially lucky, and even if you get into debt, you usually manage to 
pay it off without too much stress. You are lucky with investments. 


There may be some trouble related to your home. 
You must pay your taxes on time. 


A fortunate gemstone for you is blue sapphire, which helps break through any blocks. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 39 


Meena Kumari (3 


Transit Interpretations 
Transit of Sun in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (17 Sep 2011 11:47:39 to 17 
Oct 2011 23:46:14) 
This transit of the Sun brings a positive boost in your professional and personal 
life. 


You are likely to progress in your career with an increased recognition from the 
employer or authorities. There is an increased chance for promotion or better 
employment. You feel energetic and enthusiastic, and will experience a heightened 
ability to overcome obstacles, resolve problems, and overcome possible 
obstruction from adversaries. Your work is most likely to be successful and bear 
fruit. This will result in financial gains, and absence of money related worries 


You will do well socially, and feel successful, respected, and appreciated. 
Friends, family and acquaintances will love you and you have a chance to spend 
time with them. Your mind is at peace, and you feel happy and comfortable with 


your life. If you have children, you will enjoy parenthood. 


Your heightened mental and physical fitness will come along with sound health, 
and absence of diseases. 


Transit of Mercury in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (22 Sep 2011 20:55:47 
to 9 Oct 2011 23:32:17) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your third house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a rough phase with your superiors. You may have to be extra 
careful while dealing with your superiors and employer. Avoid any kind of 
argument that may lead to differences of opinion and misunderstandings. 


Stay away from your known enemies and be careful of unknown ones. However, 
this period may also give you few new and worthy friends whom you would 


treasure for life. 


Handle your finances carefully as money needs extra attention during this period. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 «40 


Meena Kumari (3a 


Be cautious to avoid any loss of wealth. 


This journey of Mercury may make you suffer from depression, trouble in 
recollection of facts, mental stress and unexpected hassles in your endeavours. 


Transit of Mercury in the 4th house from Natal Moon (9 Oct 2011 23:32:17 
to 29 Oct 2011 15:19:17) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This signifies progress in every aspect of your life. On the personal front you are 
likely to be content with your life and you would succeed and gain in all your 
undertakings. Your status in the society will be heightened and you would be 
honoured. 


Financially this is a very good phase as this period indicates attainment of wealth 
in the form of money or property. You may also gain from your spouse or other 
members of the opposite sex. 


At home, this period indicates the arrival of a new member to the family. You are 
also likely to make your mother be proud of you. Your mere presence in the family 


may bring in success to the other members of the family. 


You may also make new friends who are highly educated and gentle people to be 
with. 


Transit of Sun in the 4th house from Natal Moon (17 Oct 2011 23:46:14 to 16 
Nov 2011 23:34:37) 

The period when the Sun travels through the fourth house may connote decline in 
your present social status and difficulty in maintaining your position at the 
workplace. It would be better to avoid any arguments with your seniors, mentors 
or well wishers during this time. 


This period could prove to be distressful, prone to experiencing grief and a time of 
misery. Your mind may have a hard time staying focussed on constructive 
thoughts, and instead be drawn to find an escape in something of an addictive 
nature, compensating for it's restless state. 


Married life during this particular period may become tense and there could also 
be a considerable decline in conjugal ecstasy. Don't let the disturbance in your 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 « 41 


Meena Kumari (3 


mind project itself in creating any kind of quarrels with your family, or the peace 
at home may suffer. Overall, you may experience a dip in your happiness in the 
domestic and social realm. 


On the health front, your mental disturbance may reflect in some physical 
complaints or even ailments. 


Plans for journeys may face obstacles, and when you do travel you may have 
problems being comfortable, such as lack of food. 


Transit of Mercury in the 5th house from Natal Moon (29 Oct 2011 15:19:17 
to 4 Jan 2012 07:12:22) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your fifth house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a troubled personal life. During this particular period you 
must try and avoid getting involved in any kind of arguments with your wife, 
children and other members of the family. This is not a conducive period for you 
to be headstrong and opinionated while dealing with friends as well. Be extra 
careful while handling your loved ones. 


Health could be a matter of concern at this particular point of time. Take care of 
your food, as you are likely to suffer from heat stroke or body heat during this 
time. Do not undertake any activity, which would put a risk to your life. 


Mentally you may feel agitated and all drained out. 
This period may also give you some bodily pain leading to much discomfort. 


There may also occur troublesome and difficult circumstances in the work front. If 
you are a student, you need to be more determined and focused in your studies to 
avoid any kind of distraction. 


Transit of Mars in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (30 Oct 2011 22:07:17 to 
22 Jun 2012 00:05:37) 

During this period, Mars will move through your second house from the Moon. 
This mostly suggests a period of loss. Take good care of your finances and focus 
on the safety of your valuables as you may suffer some losses due to theft during 
this period. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 « 42 


Meena Kumari (3 


You may also face a rutted phase at your work place due to several unpleasant 
happenings. Keep yourself away from arguments. Watch your words before 
uttering them to anybody. Your work or profession may see a very low phase 
during this time and some of you may even lose your position if not handled 
carefully. 


Beware of your old enemies and avoid creating new ones. You may develop the 
negative emotion of jealousy towards others during this time. Beware of any wrath 
of the government or the state authority. During this particular period, you are also 
likely to befriend some wicked people and get involved in quarrels with your 
family and dear ones. 


Transit of Saturn in the 4th house from Natal Moon (15 Nov 2011 10:11:53 to 
16 May 2012 06:35:27) 

Saturn in the fourth house from your Moon sign brings an uneasy time. Apart from 
other aspects of life, your finances will require careful handling during this 

transit. Avoid wasting money. You may develop a lack of enthusiasm when it 
comes to your work or profession. You may even start disliking your job and may 
face the wrath of your boss or a higher authority. Some of you are likely to be 
transferred to another place of work during this period. Socially this may not be a 
good time for you. Make efforts to maintain popularity in your social circle. Avoid 
any activity that might cause you humiliation. Health matters require your focused 
attention. Some of you are likely to develop lethargy, stomach discomfort, 
flatulence and other minor ailments. You may also experience anguish, fear, 
mental confusion and anxiety during this time. Some of you may have bad 
thoughts or feel the urge to do sinful deeds. 


Avoid getting into any arguments with your enemies. You may be separated from 
your friends and supporters. At home, take care of your wife and children, as they 
may be susceptible to disease or other life threatening situations. There may be a 
death in the family. Avoid getting involved in any kind of unpleasant situation 
with your relatives and near and dear ones. This period may see you creating 
enemies within your immediate family or with relatives. Beware of hidden 
enemies during this time. On the other hand, some of you may expect childbirth in 
your family. 


Transit of Sun in the 5th house from Natal Moon (16 Nov 2011 23:34:37 to 16 
Dec 2011 14:13:38) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 «43 


Meena Kumari (3 


This particular time mostly denotes a period of monetary challenges, and decline 
in mental peace. On the work front, you have to take extra care not to get into the 
bad books of your seniors. Avoid arguments with your employer or senior staff at 
your workplace. You may have to deal with some obstacles, which could be 
related to competitors, authorities or people you have unfriendly relations with. 


If you express your mental anxiety, you are likely to loose goodwill amongst 
friends and children. 


Health would require your attention, as you may feel sick and lethargic. Mental 
anguish, fear and restlessness may cast their spells on you, and make you're more 
prone to be offended by others. You may also become unstable in your 
temperament. 


Issues related to children may become a matter of concern for you. Avoid 
discussing anything at this time, as you are likely to cause disagreements between 
you and your son. 


Transit of Sun in the 6th house from Natal Moon (16 Dec 2011 14:13:38 to 15 
Jan 2012 00:58:19) 

The period brings success in every aspect of life. You will find yourself 
overcoming obstacles easily, and it's a great time for successful problem solving. 
If anyone gets in your way, you will be able to deal with it easily, with a minimal 
of aggravation. 


It is a good time to complete any unfinished projects, and you are likely to succeed 
in whatever you put your efforts in. Financially you will also do well, and will find 
it easy to gain in general. 


Your mental and physical health will be excellent. Your body will stay healthy and 
your mind will be free of too much stress and anxiety. It's a time to enjoy comforts 
and social relations, especially friendship with people in powerful positions. 


There are good chances for promotion and honour, especially from authorities or 
government related people 


Transit of Mercury in the 6th house from Natal Moon (4 Jan 2012 07:12:22 
to 24 Jan 2012 06:55:04) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 « 44 


Meena Kumari (3 


During this period, Mercury will move through your sixth house from the Moon. 
This indicates a mixed bag of positive and negative happenings. This particular 
period indicates success, stability and progress in your personal life. Your plans 
and projects will be successfully accomplished and you would also gain from the 
same. 


You are also likely to do better in the work front. You may expect progress in all 
your undertakings. 


This period also indicates your popularity in the society. Your status in the society 
is also likely to be heightened. 


Health should be fine and you would also have mental peace and contentment. 


However, for some, this movement of Mercury may bring in worries and troubles 
from enemies. 


You may have to be extra careful with your finances. Avoid any kind of 
arguments with your employer. 


It is better you stay away from activities involving risk to your health. However, 
body heat may trouble you during this particular period. 


Transit of Sun in the 7th house from Natal Moon (15 Jan 2012 00:58:19 to 13 
Feb 2012 13:58:08) 

The Sun's position in the seventh house gives a tendency for travel, but such 
travel will tend to be tiring and troubled. 


You need to be extra careful not to challenge your seniors or superiors at the 
workplace, as they are likely to oppose you, resulting in enmity and humiliation. 
Even the relationship with your partner and neighbours may be a bit strained at 
this time. 


Your level of enthusiasm may be at a low, resulting in an inability to overcome 
obstacles that come in the way of achieving your dream objectives or goals during 
this particular time. This period may take you through some set backs in your 
professional activities, will a general lack of progress and success. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 ¢ 45 


Meena Kumari (3a 


Your health would require your care and attention, as you are more susceptible to 
health problems, particularly discomfort in the stomach, blood related problems, 
fever, and fatigue. Be extra cautious with your diet to avoid indigestion, food 
poisoning and food allergies. The health of your wife and children may also be 
under pressure. 


Transit of Mercury in the 7th house from Natal Moon (24 Jan 2012 06:55:04 
to 11 Feb 2012 00:10:26) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your seventh house from the 
Moon. This may bring in some trying time for you both mentally and physically. 
This period indicates illness. You may have to experience physical pain and bodily 
weakness during this phase. 


Mentally you might become restless and anguished. A rise in mental perplexity 
and misunderstanding with the family is also indicated during this time. You may 
have to be extra careful to avoid arguments and communication gaps while dealing 
with your spouse and children. Take care to avoid any situation where you may 
have to face humiliation. 


You could feel more hassled as you are likely to face hurdles in your endeavours. 
Travel plans, if any, may not yield the expected result and could be troublesome. 


Transit of Mercury in the 8th house from Natal Moon (11 Feb 2012 00:10:26 
to 27 Feb 2012 16:04:45) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly signifies wealth and success. It indicates success in all your work and 
projects. During this period you may expect financial stability and gain in 
financial ventures. 


Socially you would see a rise in your status. People would respect you more and 
your popularity would increase. 


This period may also let you acquire a comfortable lifestyle. You are also likely to 
gain happiness from your children. You are likely to receive happiness with a 
newborn member in the family. Your children would also remain happy and 
content during this particular period. 


This period sees a more alert and clever you. You would be able to use your 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 ¢ 46 


Meena Kumari (3 


intuition and intellect to make right decisions. 


Your enemies are likely to be defeated and will be mellowed down by your aura. 
Moreover, you may also expect help from all the sides. 


However, your health would require your attention, as you are susceptible to fall 
sick. Take care of your food intake and keep your spirits high to keep gloominess 
and unnecessary fears at bay. 


Transit of Sun in the 8th house from Natal Moon (13 Feb 2012 13:58:08 to 14 
Mar 2012 10:50:43) 

The Sun's journey through the eighth house could incur loss and bodily suffering 
in general. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary expenses and avoid making 
important decisions about finances. 


Support from your community, family members and even partner may seem 
absent to you. There could be a change in the work you do, possibility forcing you 
to let go of your current position, or there could be a lot of travel, which may turn 
out stressful. 


Consciously avoid getting involved in any kind of quarrel with your enemies or 
anyone else, as it is likely to be totally fruitless. 


Take care of your health as you may develop physical ailments like stomach 
disorder, blood pressure and piles, causing you discomfort. You may develop 
needless fear; especially fear of death or loss of honour, meaningless anxiety and a 
restless mind during this phase. It is wise to avoid activities that involve any kind 
of risks with your life and that of your family. A relative's issue may come up 
unexpectedly causing you some worries. 


Transit of Mercury in the 9th house from Natal Moon (27 Feb 2012 16:04:45 
to 2 Apr 2012 16:02:34) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your ninth house from the Moon. 
This signifies sufferings from diseases. This particular phase may bring in 
obstruction and interruptions in your field of work. Take care to keep your respect 
and position in the workplace intact. Make sure you don't have to regret any of 
your actions done at this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 «47 


Meena Kumari (3 


Watch out for probable hurdles before venturing into something new. 


Mentally you may feel hassled, over burdened, and unstable due to several 
reasons. 


Beware of your enemies as they could harm you more during this particular phase. 
Avoid any arguments with your family and relatives as this may lead to 
unnecessary quarrels. 


During this period you are susceptible to become irritable and may try to find out 
faults in matters related to religion, common belief etc. This period may also 
demand more labour from you in order to accomplish any task undertaken. 
However, a feeling of lack of interest may stop you from working hard. 


Avoid undertaking any long distance travel, as it is likely to be troublesome and 
may not give you the desired result. Take care of your food habits and try and keep 
yourself in a positive frame of mind. 


Transit of Sun in the 9th house from Natal Moon (14 Mar 2012 10:50:43 to 
13 Apr 2012 19:19:33) 

Sun in the ninth house has some significant results in your life. This period could 
mean blame games, change of place and lack of mental peace. 


Take extra care at your work place to avoid disappointing your employer. You 
may feel humiliated and chances are that some false charges would be imposed on 
you. Avoid any tricky situation during this time. 


Financially this period could be taxing on you. You may also find it difficult to 
recover pending dues from others. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary 
expenses. Misunderstandings, disagreements may occur between you and your 
teacher, or spiritual/religious leader. Opinions of your family and friends may 
clash with that of yours leading to fights and discontentment. 


Health would require your attention as you may develop physical and mental 
discomforts at this time. You may also feel more tired and mentally depressed than 
usual. 


However, you may also consider doing some virtuous deeds, as you are more 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 - 48 


Meena Kumari (3 


likely to accomplish this successfully. Travel would be on the cards. 


Transit of Mercury in the 8th house from Natal Moon (2 Apr 2012 16:02:34 
to 6 Apr 2012 16:09:14) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly signifies wealth and success. It indicates success in all your work and 
projects. During this period you may expect financial stability and gain in 
financial ventures. 


Socially you would see a rise in your status. People would respect you more and 
your popularity would increase. 


This period may also let you acquire a comfortable lifestyle. You are also likely to 
gain happiness from your children. You are likely to receive happiness with a 
newborn member in the family. Your children would also remain happy and 
content during this particular period. 


This period sees a more alert and clever you. You would be able to use your 
intuition and intellect to make right decisions. 


Your enemies are likely to be defeated and will be mellowed down by your aura. 
Moreover, you may also expect help from all the sides. 


However, your health would require your attention, as you are susceptible to fall 
sick. Take care of your food intake and keep your spirits high to keep gloominess 
and unnecessary fears at bay. 


Transit of Mercury in the 9th house from Natal Moon (6 Apr 2012 16:09:14 
to 5 May 2012 21:05:26) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your ninth house from the Moon. 
This signifies sufferings from diseases. This particular phase may bring in 
obstruction and interruptions in your field of work. Take care to keep your respect 
and position in the workplace intact. Make sure you don't have to regret any of 
your actions done at this time. 


Watch out for probable hurdles before venturing into something new. 


Mentally you may feel hassled, over burdened, and unstable due to several 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 «49 


Meena Kumari (3 


reasons. 


Beware of your enemies as they could harm you more during this particular phase. 
Avoid any arguments with your family and relatives as this may lead to 
unnecessary quarrels. 


During this period you are susceptible to become irritable and may try to find out 
faults in matters related to religion, common belief etc. This period may also 
demand more labour from you in order to accomplish any task undertaken. 
However, a feeling of lack of interest may stop you from working hard. 


Avoid undertaking any long distance travel, as it is likely to be troublesome and 
may not give you the desired result. Take care of your food habits and try and keep 
yourself in a positive frame of mind. 


Transit of Sun in the 10th house from Natal Moon (13 Apr 2012 19:19:33 to 
14 May 2012 16:10:10) 

This is a favourable period. It denotes gains, promotions, progress and success in 
all your endeavours. 


You may expect a promotion at the work place. Favour of your seniors, honour 
from the authorities and even more opportunities could be expected during this 
time. 


This period also denotes success in your endeavour and favourable culmination of 
any stuck up deals. 


Socially you may expect an even more respectable position. Your social circle 
will get widened, meaning more positive and gainful interactions particularly with 
the opposite sex, honour from your circle of friends and acquaintances. You may 
even expect to be honoured by the highest of authorities. You could expect more 
gains from unexpected quarters as well. 


Your health will be at its best during this time. Overall happiness would surround 
you. 


Transit of Mercury in the 10th house from Natal Moon (5 May 2012 21:05:26 
to 21 May 2012 21:51:00) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 50 


Meena Kumari (3 


During this period, Mercury will move through your tenth house from the Moon. 
This denotes contentment and good times for you. You would be happy and 
successful in all your endeavours. Professionally a very good period could be 
expected as well. You would be able to finish off the work given to you 
successfully on time. 


Happiness at home is also indicated during this time. You could also expect to 
meet someone interesting during this time. Some of you may also expect to spend 
some passionate time with someone new of the opposite sex. Possibility of gain 
from this person is also indicated during this particular time. 


Financially, this could be a good time for you. The success in your endeavours 
will be gainful for you and you may expect other monetary gain as well. 


This period may also bring in a rise in your status in the society. You are likely to 
be honoured and may command more respect in the society. You may become 


socially more active and may get involved in social welfare work. 


Mentally peace and calmness is indicated. Your enemies are likely to be defeated 


with ease and you would find calmness in life during this particular time. 


Transit of Sun in the 11th house from Natal Moon (14 May 2012 16:10:10 to 
14 Jun 2012 22:45:01) 

This transit of the Sun mostly means monetary gains, improved economic and 
social status. 


This is a suitable time for you to approach your boss/employer for any favors such 
as asking for a promotion. You will rise in your position at the work place, and 
get unexpected benefits from your superiors or authorities. 


You could also expect profit in trade and attainment of wealth during this time and 
even gains from your friends. 


Your social prestige would see a rise and you would gain more honour in your 
neighbourhood. 


Health would remain fine during this time and your sound health could be a happy 
occasion for the family. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 «51 


Meena Kumari (3 


This period also signifies the commencement of some spiritual constructive deed 
at your home leading to even more happiness. Merrymaking, distribution and 
indulgence of good food and sweets at home could also be expected during this 
time. Overall, a comfortable period is denoted for you and your family leading to 
familial peace during this time. 


Transit of Saturn in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (16 May 2012 06:35:27 
to 4 Aug 2012 08:45:44) 

Saturn's journey through the third house is auspicious, especially relating to work 
and finances. You are likely to make money in more than one way. Success comes 
from new undertakings or enterprises. 


This is particularly good time to profit from activities relating to poultry farming 
or agriculture. You may also consider buying land or fixed property during this 
time. 


If you are unemployed, you may hear opportunity knocking at your door or get 
some lucrative job offers. Those employed may get a promotion, increase in 


authority, or a pay rise. Attention is given to your intelligence, ability and effort 
and you are likely to climb up the social ladder. There is a good chance of getting 
assistance with your work. You will succeed in any kind of discussions and be 
able to put your point across much more easily than before. 


You will feel a spring in your footstep denoting good health and vitality of spirit. 
Any previous ailments will vanish, bringing you comfort and happiness. Home life 
too will be nourishing and full of conjugal bliss. Your spouse will be doting and 
more loving than ever. Your siblings and children will treat you well and be very 
helpful. Your enemies will be defeated and good luck and fortune will bless you 
during this time. For some, travel may also be on the cards. 


Transit of Jupiter in the 11th house from Natal Moon (17 May 2012 09:34:46 
to 31 May 2013 06:49:20) 

During this period, Jupiter will move through your eleventh house from the 
Moon. This signifies a good time. During this time you may expect promotions at 
the workplace, gain in trade and even a position of higher authority in your 
professional life. This could also prove to be a socially good time for you, as your 
status in the society is likely to be heightened. Your splendour and physical 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 52 


Meena Kumari (3 


presence will also be noticed and sought during this time. You may even expect 
gains from your friends and dear ones. This time would help you see your enemies 
mellowed down and defeated. 


Your interest in religious activities will rise and you could be benefited by the 
power of chanting mantras. 


If eligible, you may consider marriage and couples may expect a new member in 
their family. Some of you may also get romantically involved with member of the 
opposite sex during this time. 


Finances would be good and most of you would consider buying landed property, 
jewellery, new vehicles and acquiring material comfort in this time. You would 
also enjoy sound health and a peaceful mind. 


Transit of Mercury in the 11th house from Natal Moon (21 May 2012 
21:51:00 to 4 Jun 2012 18:30:33) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eleventh house from the 
Moon. This indicates achievement and monetary gain. This period is likely to 
bring in financial gains for you. You may expect to receive higher monetary gains 
from different sources. Your personal endeavours, businesses and investments are 
likely to bring in higher financial gains and more profits. If you are a professional 
or employed, you are likely to be more successful during this particular period. 
You are likely to prosper in your field of activity especially during this time. 


Health should be good. You are likely to be at peace with yourself. You may 
become more soft-spoken and very cordial in your behaviour. 


At home, you may expect a good time. Your spouse and children will also be 
happy and cordial. You may also expect to get some favourable news. You are 
likely to be surrounded by material comfort. 


Socially this is a good phase as well. You would be able to command more 
respect in the society. Pleasant company of the opposite sex would also surround 
you. Your wit and pleasant nature would also make people flock around you. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 ° 53 


Meena Kumari (3 


Transit of Mercury in the 12th house from Natal Moon (4 Jun 2012 18:30:33 
to 21 Jun 2012 18:37:47) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your twelfth house from the 
Moon. This denotes expenses for you. You may have to spend more than expected 
in order to live a comfortable life. Stay away from litigations as this may also 
cause some loss of money. Moreover, you may also have to work extra hard to 
accomplish any of the task undertaken by you. 


Beware of your enemies and stay out of their way in order to avoid any 
humiliation. Hold on to your respect and try and keep your honour in the society. 


You could be mentally disturbed due to several reasons. You are susceptible to 
wotries and restlessness during this particular time. You are also likely to be 
distressed and feel discontented during this phase. 


You are likely to lose interest in food and conjugal life. A feeling of sickness and 
suffering may trouble you during this particular point of time. 


Transit of Sun in the 12th house from Natal Moon (14 Jun 2012 22:45:01 to 
16 Jul 2012 09:36:19) 

This particular period signifies monetary challenges. You would have to take extra 
care while handling finances during this period. 


If employed, you may find yourself having a bit of a hard time with your 
employer. He will tend to not appreciate your work and you may feel a threat of 
being given less responsibilities or less pay. Do not get disheartened if your efforts 
and hard work do not give you the desired result at this time. 


If you are into trade, you may have to go through a few setbacks. Be careful in 
your dealings. 


This period may also take you through a rough weather socially. Avoid arguments 
with anybody, as quarrels with friends and seniors could not be ruled out during 
this phase. 


You may also have to go on long trips, which may not bring in the desired result. 


Avoid activities that involve physical risks and make safety your first priority. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 «54 


Meena Kumari (3 


Take care of your health and that of your family during this time as you may 
develop fever, stomach trouble and some discomfort in the eyes. Discontentment 
during this particular time may affect peace and harmony at home. 


Transit of Mercury in the Ist house from Natal Moon (21 Jun 2012 18:37:47 
to 29 Aug 2012 05:12:02) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your first house from the Moon. 
This may bring in some negative results in your life. This mostly brings in a 
situation where you may have to serve someone unwillingly. You are also 
susceptible to face oppression of some kind. Take care to avoid facing a haul over 
the coals and the lashes of unsympathetic words from others. Keeping a low 
profile and doing your task best should be the focus during this time. 


You may also have to watch out for unnecessary expenditure as this may cause a 
big hole in your wallet. Be cautious with your spending and pay attention to the 


safety of your finances. 


You are also likely to befriend some bad personalities who may cause harm. 


Watch your words while dealing with your near and dear ones. Your insensitivity 
may create some unnecessary enemies within your circle. Avoid any kind of 
lawsuits and bad company. Be careful not to do anything that may make you lose 
your self worth. You would always need your good fortune, so, save it. Take 
advantage of your education and experience to avoid any glitch in your life. 


Be flexible during this period, as you may have to make some last minute changes 
in your plan, project or ideas due to pressure from different quarters or due to 
some anticipated fear. Obstructions may crop up related to your foreign residence 
if applicable. You may also find obstacles in performing any auspicious work at 
home. Take care of your family and yourself as you may become susceptible to 
deception particularly during this phase. Avoid travel if possible as you may not 
get the desired pleasure or expected result out of it. 


Transit of Mars in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (22 Jun 2012 00:05:37 to 
14 Aug 2012 09:51:10) 

During this period, Mars will move through your third house from the Moon. This 
brings in good times and could be regarded especially well for financial gains. 
During this time, you are likely to make money in your trade and profession. You 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 55 


Meena Kumari (3 


are also likely to acquire valuable ornaments during this phase. 


Work should be on a smooth sail and you are likely to succeed in matters of 
importance. Your new endeavours would also see success. If employed, you are 
likely to be promoted to a position of greater authority and honour. Your success 
would boost your self-confidence and strengthen your will power during this 
time. 


Health would remain good and you would shine with health and vigour. Your 
enthusiasm is likely to be at its top and you would be relieved from all the past 
confusion or obstacles. This time also sees you indulging in exotic culinary 
delights. 


Your enemies would be defeated and you would be at peace with your mind. 
Avoid any trip abroad as it may not bring in the desired result during this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 1st house from Natal Moon (16 Jul 2012 09:36:19 to 16 
Aug 2012 17:59:24) 

The Sun's transit through the first house has a noticeable influence on your work 
as well as personal life. There could be a permanent or temporary change of place, 
difficulty at the work place, or a ruffled time with your superiors at work or your 
employer. You need to take extra care to avoid getting a bad reputation at the 
workplace, as you may feel more irritable, tired and prone to have disagreements. 


To complete the tasks on hand or to meet your set objectives may take more effort 
than usual. There is a heightened chance for going on long trips, which may not 
bring the desired result, or may turn out not to have been necessary in the first 
place. 


During this period you could feel more tired than usual. Your health would need 
extra attention as you are susceptible to stomach problems, disturbed bowel 
movement, discomfort in the eyes and heart related problems during this time. 
Avoid activities that are physically risky, as there is a tendency toward accidents. 


On the home front, you need to put extra attention on avoiding disputes among 
family and friends, and make sure you get the extra rest to minimise irritability and 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 56 


Meena Kumari (3 


mental tension. Disagreements may crop up between you and your spouse, and 
may affect your married life. Overall harmony and peace at home could also be 
challenged during this time. 


Transit of Saturn in the 4th house from Natal Moon (4 Aug 2012 08:45:44 to 
2 Nov 2014 20:53:34) 

Saturn in the fourth house from your Moon sign brings an uneasy time. Apart from 
other aspects of life, your finances will require careful handling during this 

transit. Avoid wasting money. You may develop a lack of enthusiasm when it 
comes to your work or profession. You may even start disliking your job and may 
face the wrath of your boss or a higher authority. Some of you are likely to be 
transferred to another place of work during this period. Socially this may not be a 
good time for you. Make efforts to maintain popularity in your social circle. Avoid 
any activity that might cause you humiliation. Health matters require your focused 
attention. Some of you are likely to develop lethargy, stomach discomfort, 
flatulence and other minor ailments. You may also experience anguish, fear, 
mental confusion and anxiety during this time. Some of you may have bad 
thoughts or feel the urge to do sinful deeds. 


Avoid getting into any arguments with your enemies. You may be separated from 
your friends and supporters. At home, take care of your wife and children, as they 
may be susceptible to disease or other life threatening situations. There may be a 
death in the family. Avoid getting involved in any kind of unpleasant situation 
with your relatives and near and dear ones. This period may see you creating 
enemies within your immediate family or with relatives. Beware of hidden 
enemies during this time. On the other hand, some of you may expect childbirth in 
your family. 


Transit of Mars in the 4th house from Natal Moon (14 Aug 2012 09:51:10 to 
28 Sep 2012 20:45:23) 

During this period, Mars will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This brings in some hard times in a few of your life's segments. Most of you are 
likely to face a difficult time when it comes to managing your old enemies. You 
are also likely to encounter some new enemies who could also be from your own 
circle of family and friends. Some of you may also befriend some wicked people 
for whom you may suffer later. Keep an eye on your behaviour as it might become 
cruel during this phase. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 57 


Meena Kumari (3 


However, a few of you may also go in for some kind of settlement with your foes. 


Your health would require more attention than usual as this period makes you 
susceptible to developing fever and discomfort in the chest. Some of you may also 
suffer from diseases mostly related to the blood and the stomach. 


Mentally you are likely to remain worried and under a spell of grief. 


Relationships would be demanding during this time. Make peace with your family 
and other relatives to avoid further sorrow during this phase. Hold on tightly to 
your honour and position in the society as well. 


Avoid any issues related to land and property especially during this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (16 Aug 2012 17:59:24 to 
16 Sep 2012 17:54:19) 

The Sun's transit through the second house could prove to be a monetarily 
challenging for you. This period mostly portends absence of expected result or 
profit in trade and decline in wealth. If you deal in agriculture or trading, this 
period may bring you some setbacks. 


This is the time when you are more susceptible to fears than usual. You may feel 
at risk of being cheated, or experience anxiety for no apparent reason at all. As a 
result, you may find it difficult to handle ordinary affairs of your life as smoothly 
as you would otherwise do. 


You may find yourself not so happy and getting irritated easily even at your near 
and dear ones, and you may feel less compassion and flexible than usual. 


If you are susceptible to headaches or problems with your eyes, this is a time were 
the symptoms may surface. 


Transit of Mercury in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (29 Aug 2012 05:12:02 
to 13 Sep 2012 21:31:48) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your second house from the 

Moon. This signifies pecuniary gain and growth of income especially to those who 
deal in precious gems. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 58 


Meena Kumari (3 


This period is also likely to bring in happiness to you in the form of success in 
learning and attainment of knowledge. 


This period also brings in the company of good people and gives you an 
opportunity to savour exotic culinary delights. 


However, for some, this particular period may bring in sufferings, bad name in the 
society and your enemy could also be more harmful than usual. This phase also 
indicates a probable loss of one of your relatives or a near friend. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 59 


Meena Kumari (3 


Dasha Interpretations 


Moon Maha Dasha: 5 May 2002 to 13 Mar 2012 


Interpretation of the Maha Dasha of the Moon 


General Interpretations 


General effects which are felt during the Maha Dasha of the Moon are as follows — 

— Interest in mantras and Vedas will increase and there may be faith in elders, teachers and 
gods. 

— Happiness and a good position may be attained due to the favour of those in authority. 

— One may enjoy the pleasing company of young females and the joy of acquiring wealth, 
land, flowers, incense and ornaments. 

— One may attain skill at many arts. 

— Status and fame in society may increase. 

— Modesty, benevolence and other good habits will increase. 

— The mind may be lively and restless. 

— The birth of a daughter is possible. 

— Water related work, gardening and agriculture will be profitable. 

— One may wish to travel. 

— If the Moon is weak, then physical pain may be caused by cough and gastric ailments. 

— Laziness may increase and one may feel uneasiness due to sleeplessness, headaches and 
mental agitation. 

— Good people may be opposistional and there may be a loss of wealth. 

— There may be quarrels and arguments with dear ones. 

— The mind may not be interested in good deeds. 


Specific Interpretations 


Interpretations based on the condition of the planet and other influences in the birth chart and 
divisional charts are as follows — 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, agricultural farming or land may yield profits and 
money. 

— Honour may be attained from the king,one may be blessed with a daughter, with friends 
and the company of women. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, one may fear the king, fire and theft. One’s 
spouse, children, and friends may suffer from harm. 

— Long journeys may be undertaken and one may be inclined towards ill deeds. 

— There may be failure at work and consumption of contaminated food during this period. 


— Anger may prevail. 

—One’s mother or some maternal relative may expire. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, education causes fame, happiness, victory and 
monetary gains are attained. 

— The number of children and servants increases. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 + 60 


Meena Kumari (3 


— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, there is fame, happiness and higher education. 

— One may be inclined towards the worship of gods and may bathe at holy places. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, there is success, progress and profits in business and 
industry. 

— There may be promotion and acquisition of authority in service. 

— Wealth and honour will be gained from the state. 

— Interest in attaining fame, advancing education and performing yagyas prevails. 

— One may be endowed with land, clothes and vehicles. 
-Bliss of parents prevails. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, there will be interest and success in benevolent and religious 
deeds which may bring fame. 

— Agriculture, wealth and prosperity increases. 

— House and immovable property will be acquired and new work will be started. 

— One may become skilled in many arts. 

— Interest in visiting forest and mountainous regions arise. 

— One may suffer from venereal diseases. 


Moon-Venus : 23 Jan 2010 to 15 Sep 2011 


Effects of Antar Dasha of Venus in the Maha Dasha of Moon 


Antar Dasha of Venus in the Maha Dasha of Moon - 

- Wealth and food may be attained and wealth may be gained through one's wife. 

- Worldly comforts, pleasure due to female company and an excellent wife may be 
attained. 

- Business may be favorable and one may possess clothes, ornaments and water related 
products. 

- One may suffer from an ailment which has been passed on by one's mother. 

- Effects like acquisition of a kingdom (attainment of a high position in government), 
gaining of clothes, ornaments, cattle, conveyances, etc., happiness to wife and 
children, construction of a new house, availability of sweet preparations every day, 
use of perfumes, affairs with beautiful women, sound health, etc. 

- Physical soundness, good reputation, acquisition of more land and houses. 

- There will be loss of landed property, children, wife and cattle, and opposition from 
government. 

- Acquisition of an underground hidden treasure, gain of land, enjoyment, birth of a 
son, etc.. 

- Advancement of good fortune, fulfillment of ambitions with the beneficence of the 
king (government), devotion to deities and Brahmins, gain of jewels like pearls, 
etc. 

- Acquisition of more house property and agricultural land, and gain of wealth and 
enjoyment. 

- Deportation to foreign lands, sorrows, death and danger from thieves and snakes will 
be the results. 

- There will be danger of premature death. 

- The remedial measures to be adopted for obtaining relief from the evil effects, are 
Rudra Japa and giving in charity a white cow and silver. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 61 


Meena Kumari (3 


Moon-Venus-Ketu : 11 Aug 2011 to 15 Sep 2011 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Ketu in the Antar Dasha of Venus, there may be a fear of death. 
— There is travelling from one nation to another. 
— Some gain in-between may be attained. 


Moon-Sun : 15 Sep 2011 to 13 Mar 2012 


Effects of Antar Dasha of Sun in the Maha Dasha of Moon 


Antar Dasha of Sun in the Maha Dasha of Moon 

- One may attain wealth and fame from the king and acquire the authority of a king. 

- Wealth may be earned through work and business and influence and valor may increase. 

- Enemies may be destroyed, disputes may subdue, freedom from ailments and progress may 
be attained. 

- Recovery of a lost kingdom (high position in government) and wealth, happiness in the 
family, acquisition of villages and land with then kind assistance of one's friends 
and the king (government), birth of a son, beneficence of Goddess Lakshmi. 

- At the end of the Antar Dasha, there is the likelihood of attacks of fever and 
lethargy. 

- Danger from the government, thieves, and snakes, affliction with fever and troubles 
in foreign journey. 

- Sufferings from fever in his Antar Dasha. 

- Worship of Lord Shiva is the remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil 
effects. 


Moon-Sun-Sun : 15 Sep 2011 to 24 Sep 2011 


— Rebellion, loss of wealth, pain caused by women, headache, mental agony, argument with brahmins 
and similar painful effects are possible. 


Moon-Sun-Moon : 24 Sep 2011 to 9 Oct 2011 


— There is a possibility of the destruction or loss of precious jewels like pearls, etc. 


Moon-Sun-Mars : 9 Oct 2011 to 20 Oct 2011 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mars in the Antar Dasha of the Sun, there may be trouble from the those 
in authority and enemies, bondage, and great difficulties. 
— There may be pain from fire and enemies. 


Moon-Sun-Rahu : 20 Oct 2011 to 16 Nov 2011 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 62 


Meena Kumari (3a 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Rahu, in the Antar Dasha of the Sun, there is loss of employment, great 
difficulties, loss of wealth, fear from enemies and suffering due to ailments. 
— There is also the possibility of mental agony. 


Moon-Sun-Jupiter : 16 Nov 2011 to 10 Dec 2011 


—In the pratyantar dasha of Jupiter, in the Antar Dasha of the Sun, there may be aquisition of 
clothes, gold and ornaments. 
- Enemies may be destroyed and one may be victorious and progressive. 


— There are chances of acquiring a vehicle. 


Moon-Sun-Saturn : 10 Dec 2011 to 7 Jan 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Saturn in the Antar Dasha of the Sun, there may be loss of wealth, pain 
for animals, mental unrest, and great suffering. 


— Jnauspicious results in every field are foreseen. 


Moon-Sun-Mercury : 7 Jan 2012 to 2 Feb 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mercury in the Antar Dasha of the Sun, one acquires education, mixes 
with friends and relatives, and gets good food. 


- There is a gain of wealth. 


— One receives honors from the government and religious benefits are attained. 


Moon-Sun-Ketu : 2 Feb 2012 to 12 Feb 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Ketu in the Antar Dasha of Sun, there are chances of quarrels with 
enemies, fear of life, fear from the government. 


- One may incur huge losses. 


— There are chances of great conflicts. 


Moon-Sun-Venus : 12 Feb 2012 to 13 Mar 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Venus in the Antar Dasha of the Sun, the results are moderate. This 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 63 


Meena Kumari (3 


period leads to moderate gains and wealth. 


- Happiness is acquired. 


Mars Maha Dasha: 13 Mar 2012 to 5 Feb 2019 


Interpretation of the Maha Dasha of Mars 


General Interpretations 


General effects which are felt during the Maha Dasha of Mars are as follows — 

— During this period, one may acquire land, wealth and mental peace prevails. 

— Wealth will be acquired through those in authority, through weapons, due to the mutual conflicts of 
contemporary kings, through medicines, skill, increase in animals, many wicked means and a lot of 
enterprise. 


Specific Interpretations 


Interpretations based on the condition of the planet and other influences in the birth chart and divisional 
charts are as follows — 

— Money may be spent in the construction or repair of the house. 

—Enmity with spouse, children, siblings and servants is possible and there may be pain due to those in 
authority and fire. 

— The effects of the Maha Dasha of Mars is auspicious. 

— Auspicious events like weddings and yagyas may take place. 

— Benevolent instincts may prevail. 

— Bliss of one’s mother may be short-lived. 

— There will be ailments related to the body. 

— Victory in conflicts, residence abroad and conflict regarding education is possible. 

— Extreme pain and sufferings are foreseen. 

— One may have to move away from one’s motherland due to some state displeasure and will be 
separated from spouse and friends. 

— Disinterest in religion and indulgence in inauspicious deeds is foreseen. 

— There is a possibility of loss or change of position. 

— Elders may suffer pain and love of God may be hampered by obstacles. 

— Hurdles in good fortune are foreseen. 

— One will undertake long distance journeys. 

— Behaviour will be impressive and officials will be influenced accordingly. 

— Knowledge of many things and skills may be attained. 

— There may be opposition from friends and relatives and excessive expenditure is possible. 

— Pain due to ailments of the ear and gastric problems may occur. 


Mars-Mars : 13 Mar 2012 to 7 Aug 2012 


Effects of Antar Dasha of Mars in the Maha Dasha of Mars 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 « 64 


Meena Kumari (3 


Antar Dasha of Mars in the Maha Dasha of Mars - 

- There may be differences with brothers and brothers may suffer pain. 

- There may be conflicts with enemies, destruction of enemies, increase of courage and 
valor. 

- Fear of king and obstacles in work may be possible. 

- Physical heat may increase and there may be pain due to vrana ailment and ailments 
caused by the blood acidity and burning sensation. 

- Effects like gains or wealth by the beneficence of the king (government), beneficence 
of Goddess Lakshmi, recovery of a lost kingdom (reinstatement in a high position) and 
of wealth, birth of a son. 

- Fulfillment of ambitions by the beneficence of the king (government) and acquisition 
of a house, land, cow, buffalo, etc. 

- Urinary troubles, wounds, danger from snakes and the king (government) will be the 
results. 

- There will be mental agony and body pains. 

- Lord Shiva will give relief by restoring health and providing gains of wealth and 
happiness, if the person concerned performs Rudr Japa and gives a red coloured bull 
in charity. 


Mars-Mars-Mars : 13 Mar 2012 to 22 Mar 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mars in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there is a fear of enemies, tremendous 
opposition, and excessive bleeding. 
— There is the fear of death. 


Mars-Mars-Rahu : 22 Mar 2012 to 13 Apr 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Rahu in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there is fear of bondage, loss of 
wealth and position. 

— There are conflicts, and fear of enemies. 

— One is deprived of good food. 


Mars-Mars-Jupiter : 13 Apr 2012 to 2 May 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Jupiter in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there is degeneration of wisdom, 
greif, agony and mental agony. 


Mars-Mars-Saturn : 2 May 2012 to 26 May 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Saturn in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there is the possibility of the 
destruction of one's employer. 

— One may have good relations with father. 

— Loss of wealth, great difficulties and fears prevail. 

— Restlessness, conflict and agony are foreseen. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 65 


Meena Kumari (3 


Mars-Mars-Mercury : 26 May 2012 to 16 Jun 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mercury in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there may be a loss of mental 
prudence, and suffering caused by fever. 
— There may be loss of wealth, clothes, food, and friends. 


Mars-Mars-Ketu : 16 Jun 2012 to 24 Jun 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Ketu in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there is a possibility of laziness, 
mental agony, and disease born out of sins. 
— Fear from the government, fear of the death and harm from weapons may prevail . 


Mars-Mars-Venus : 24 Jun 2012 to 19 Jul 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Venus in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there may be danger from wicked 
people, and fear from those in authority. 

— There may be trouble from weapons. 

— Septic infection and other ailments are possible. 


Mars-Mars-Sun : 19 Jul 2012 to 26 Jul 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Sun in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there will be gain of land, wealth, 
money and mental content. 
— Company of good friends and happiness in all fields is foreseen. 


Mars-Mars-Moon : 26 Jul 2012 to 7 Aug 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Moon in the Antar Dasha of Mars, there will be gains from the 
southern direction. 

— One may acquire white clothes, and ornaments. 

— All work will be accomplished successfully. 


Mars-Rahu : 7 Aug 2012 to 20 Aug 2013 


Effects of Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Maha Dasha of Mars 


Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Maha Dasha of Mars 
- There may be fear from the king, thieves, fire, weapons and enemies. 
- Wealth and food may be destroyed, elders and friends may be harmed and these may 
multiply problems. 
- There may be physical pain and ill deeds may be accomplished. 
- Effects like recognition from government, gain of house, land, etc., happiness from 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP2 * 66 


Meena Kumari (3 


son, extraordinary profits in business, bathing in holy rivers like Ganges, and 
foreign journeys. 

- Danger from snakes, wounds, destruction of cattle, danger from animals, diseases due 
to imbalance of bile and wind, imprisonment, etc. 

- There will be loss of wealth. 

- Great danger of premature death. 

- The remedial measure to be adopted to obtain relief from the above evil effects are 
Naga Puja, offering food to Brahmins and Mrityunjaya Japa. They will help in the 
prolongation of longevity. 


Mars-Rahu-Rahu : 7 Aug 2012 to 3 Oct 2012 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Rahu in the Antar Dasha of Rahu, there is a possibility of bondage, fear 
of ailments, and harm of many types. 
— Friends may cause trouble. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP2 * 67 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION — PART 24 
By Dr. E.S.Neelakantan 


“It takes only a minute to change your life” — This is the title of an inspirational 
book by Willey Jolley. Why does it just take only one minute? The author’s view 
is that the minute you decide to go after your dreams is the minute you change 
your life. Everybody is equally in the same position to reach it because everyone 
gets the same 1440 minutes per day to take advantage of that time. 


Those who are familiar with the biography of matinee idol Rajnikanth or music 
legend A.R.Rahman would know that their rise to stardom was meteoric — even 
they didn’t have a clue to the rags-to-riches story their lives were about to take. 
Can anyone give an example of how to correlate with this same concept in 
Astrology? 


If you can’t think of one, let me cite an example. Please consider the movement of 
Venus from Virgo to Libra. When it reaches the fag end of Virgo, it is perhaps at 
its weakest debilitated rasi and debilitated navamsa. The next minute you find 
Venus in Libra in own house, own navamsa, in Moolatrikona, blazing in full glory 
in its passage towards its exaltation point Pisces. It acquires a stature through 
which even the Sun, while getting debilitated in Libra could bask in the glory of a 
neechabhanga Raja yoga. In my view, this astrological phenomenon, justifies the 
statement - “It takes only a minute to change your life”. With these introductory 
remarks we will discuss the Ashtakavarga features of Venus. 


In our previous article we discussed a couple of rules: 


1. When Venus is associated with 8 bindus in a quadrant or trine, one will possess 
animals for transport. 

2. If in the above case Venus has 7 bindus, that person will possess wealth as well 
as precious stones. 


The two yogas mentioned above stand cancelled, when Venus is in Virgo or it 
occupies houses 7, 8 or 12. The above rule needs a little bit of explanation. While 
Venus is in the 7", it is in a quadrant and a rajayoga could possibly occur if rule (a) 
is satisfied. Then why does the rajayoga become defunct? The answer is simple: 
When Venus is in the 7th, the dictum “Karako bhavanasaya" is invoked. (A karaka 
in bhava spoils the bhava). Every house has two different connotations namely 
Jivapara (soulful) and Lowkika (worldly). For instance take the A" house: Maternal 


love is indicated by the 4" house. This is something which a person can experience 
at the level of soul. Immovable property or vehicles relate more to worldly 
pleasures rather than soul-satisfaction, though they are represented by the 4” 
house. 


This means that when Venus occupies the T house, the soulful satisfaction that 
probably could enure on account of a Rajayoga is denied to the native. 


Coming to houses 8 and 12, we know that these are inauspicious houses dealing 
with denial of good fortune and loss respectively. Consequently they too fail to 
bestow Rajayoga even if Venus obtains bindus in excess of the specified limit. 


Now we will turn our attention to a series of rules which require care in 
interpretation since they deal with loose morals. Venus stands for spouse. 
Relationship between married persons occurs at three levels namely spiritual, 
mental and physical. Further society lays down norms for behaviour, in accordance 
with customs and traditions. In India, since time immemorial social behaviour is 
dictated by Dharma sastras. Jyothisha sastra or Astrology is an independent science 
whose tenets are not bound by rules pertaining to Dharma sastras. For instance let 
us say monogamy is the order of the day. The horoscope of the person may show 
that the person may resort to bigamy. These concepts need to be understood, borne 
in mind before we go into a discussion on these rules. 


(a) When Venus occupies the house of Saturn in Rasi or navamsa, the person is 
desirous of union with a despicable woman. Same is the case when Venus is 
in conjunction with a malefic. (including Saturn) 

(b) If Venus occupies the house of Mars either in Rasi or navamsa and is 
associated with or expected by Mars, the person will be fond of beautiful 
women. (in an immoral sense) 


To appreciate these concepts better we need to know the inherent qualities of 
planets with reference to personal traits. According to Varahamitra, Sun, Moon 
and Jupiter represent Sattwa guna; Mars and Jupiter, Tamas; and Rajoguna is 
the quality represented by Venus and Mercury. (vide Brihat Jataka, chapter II, 
verse 7) The following table explains this concept: 


PLANET QUALITY 
Sun, Moon and Jupiter | Sattwa 
Venus and Mercury Rajas 
Mars and Jupiter Tamas 


Please note that “Sattwa” represent purity of mind. Venus, Saturn and Mars are 
basically Rajas/ Tamas in quality and inter-relationships between these planets 
will activate the basic instincts of a person and such people will be guided by 
passion rather than reason. 


There are people who can be termed as alcoholics — such persons cannot live 
without drinking and will even squander away wealth to consume alcohol. The 
quality of alcohol is “Tamas” — since he who drinks becomes “unconscious” 
while the craze for drinking is “Rajas’”. So the combination of Mars and Saturn 
could force a person to take up drinking. Impurity of mind is caused by 
afflictions to Mars, Saturn and Venus. 


A person’s wife will be 

(a) A harlot or 

(b) A destroyer of husband’s happiness or 

(c) A person with extra-marital affairs if in the chart of that person 


(i) | Navamsa of 7" house falls in the houses of Mars or Saturn and gets 
expected by these planets or 
(ii) | The Lord of 7" house occupies the rasis of either Mars or Saturn. 


When The Moon in the navamsa of a malefic is in 7 or 12 and Venus is associated 
with a malefic, then the person comes to grief through a woman. 


Please note that all these rules have to be tested or applied only in the chart of the 
husband. The 7" house denotes the qualities of wife. When the 7" house is subject 
to Martian and Saturnine influences, the wife will not be loyal too husband. 


The next rule is an amalgam of three conditions which need to be cumulatively 
satisfied. 

- Moon in the navamsa of malefic 

- Moon in7 or 12 

- Venus associated with a malefic. 


Moon in a malefic’s navamsa is a functional malefic. When in 7, this planet will 
affect married life as 7" house is house of marriage and Moon gets vitiated 
occupying a malefic navamsa. The 12" house denotes sorrow. Moon, in a malefic 
navamsa in 12 gives sorrow through a woman as Moon is a feminine planet. Venus 
is “Kalatra Karaka” or Karaka of spouse.(Strictly speaking Venus denotes wife in 
husband’s chart but the converse is however not true — the reason is Venus is a 


feminine planet.) Hence Venus with a malefic gives sorrow through wife or 
through a woman since Venus is a feminine planet. 


Generally Venus associated with a malefic is a dosha which is treated on par with 
Kuja dosha. According to the rules of Kuja dosha, both the boy and girl should 
have the same quantum of dosha in order to have a happy married life. If the 
doshas are unequal, then the match will not be good. If the girl is “Manglik”, then 
the astrologer will have to search for a compensatory dosha in boy’s chart. In such 
a situation, Venus with a malefic in boy’s chart will equal the Kuja dosha in girl’s 
chart. 


In Ayurveda there is a theory called “Tridosha theory”. According to this theory if 
Vaba, Pitta and Kapha exist in the body in almost equal proportions, that person 
will be healthy. If one is more and the other two are less, disease sets in. 


The matching done, based on Kuja dosha or Kalatra dosha is similar to this 
concept. When Mars influences the 7" dosha it generates a certain power which 
can destroy the spouse, unless an equivalent and opposite power is generated by 
planets in the spouse’s chart. When these forces are equal, they cancel themselves 
out and the couple lead a happy and prosperous married life. 


To be continued 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION PART 25 


By Dr.E.S.NEELAKANTAN 
INTRODUCTION 


A well built gentleman boarded an aircraft in order to fly to US for a 
professional visit . The plane took off and this man decided to enter 
into a conversation with a person seated next to him. The gentleman’s 
next seat was occupied by an American girl, who was slim in stature but 
fair in complexion . After they had exchanged their usual pleasantries, 
the subject matter of their conversation turned to age, physique, 
appearance and topics on similar lines. The girl said, “You will be 
surprised to know that though | appear young and slim, my age is 
nearly fifty.” The stout man was shocked because he was nearly the 
same age but overweight and he was under the mistaken impression 
that the girl should either be in college or had just completed 
graduation. The gentleman explained “Madam, we in India bother 
about our looks and physique, only till marriage. After that we are not 
concerned.” The lady said, “Sir, In our country , we are not sure how 
long our marriage will last. We are forced to re-marry when 
circumstances compel us. So, we have to keep our body in good shape 
always. Hope you now realise the need for my present appearance.” 
The stout gentleman was really at a loss of words, hearing this practical 
discourse on marital affairs in a western country. This explains why | 
had started in part-24 of this series, “In India, since time immemorial, 
social behavior is dictated by Dharma Sastras. Jyothisha or Astrology is 


an independent science whose tenets are not bound by rules pertaining 
to Dharma Sastras.” 


We now continue our discussion on Ashtakavarga rules pertaining to 
Venus. 


(1)If Saturn occupies the 5" or the 9" house from Venus, married life 
is not happy. 

(2)If Jupiter occupies the 5"" or the 9" house from Venus, it bestows 
happiness. 

(3)The virtues of wife can be inferred from the strength of these 
planets. 
Let us take up the first rule for discussion. When Saturn occupies 
5 or 9 from Venus, it is not going to aspect Venus. Therefore 
Venus will be free from Saturn’s aspect or influence. Then, how 
come it spoils marital happiness? | will give the reason for this 
rule. 
When we assess a chart for marital prospects we do it from three 
points of view 
1) Lagna viewpoint. 
2) View from Moon. 
3) View from Venus(Karaka) 


Please note that “view from Venus” is only for marriage 
examination. If it is for progeny, you have to view it from Jupiter. 
Likewise if you have to study education, view it from Mercury; so 
on and so forth. 


| will briefly explain the genesis of this threefold examination. 


1) Lagna denotes physique, appearance and the egoic self. 


2) Moon represents mind. 
3) Venus refers to Marital happiness, sensual pleasures and 
worldly happiness. 

Every human being lives at three levels; physical, mental and 
spiritual. Let us say a boy is good looking — that satisfies one at 
a physical level. 

There are some persons who speak in such a way that 
everyone gets attracted. There are many speakers who can 
attract huge audiences, by their ability to mesmerize people by 
their speech. 

The third level is spiritual level- one may not be good looking, 
may not speak much but still will be very attractive. A classic 
example of such a person is Bhagwan Ramana Maharishi. 

Ultimately married life will affect the couple at all the three 
levels. 

In the first stage, physical beauty is the principal factor which 
creates mutual attraction. John Keats said, “A thing of beauty is 
a joy forever’. 

Please note that this adage applies only to inanimate things like 
Statue of Liberty, the, Leaning Tower of Pisa or Taj Mahal. For 
human beauty, we use a different adage , “Beauty is skin 
Deep”. 

When marriage is a product of romance and infatuation, there 
is much confusion and frustration, after the initial euphoria 
wears off. 

Hence viewing a chart from lagna standpoint satisfies only the 
physical or egoic point of view. The second and third levels at 


which we judge a horoscope , namely from Moon and Venus, 
are far more important in deciding the quality of married life. 
The weightage in viewing a horoscope from these three angles 
could be quantitatively described as: 

Lagna- 100% 

Moon - 50% 

Venus - 25% 

When Saturn occupies 5 or 9 from Venus, what happens is that 
good effects of the houses of “poorvapunya” and “bhagya” 
(good fortune) get curtailed. Further 9"" house is the 3" house 
from the 7°".3" is usually the house for friendship. When 9" is 
afflicted, the spouse may be indifferent or unloving . 


Please note that love can mean affinity even at a mental or 
spiritual level. Hence Saturn in 5 or 9 from Venus is a stumbling 
block for marital happiness. 

While Saturn is a planet of contraction, Jupiter is a planet of 
expansion. Jupiter also stands for cheerful disposition, positive 
bent of mind , progeny or expansion of family, benevolence 
and friendship. 

When Jupiter occupies 5 or 9 from Venus , not only it benefits 
the poorvapunyasthana as well as Bhagya stana but it also 
aspects Venus. Please note that when Jupiter aspects Venus 
any dosha which is attributable to Venus in the birth chart 
automatically gets annulled. 

The third and final point we need to discuss is the rule that 
virtues of wife stem from strength of planets. 


There is a colloquial saying — Determine “Phalam” (results) 
from “Balam” (strength). What does this mean? Only strong 
planets yield results. Weak planets do not yield results. 
According to Varahamihira , “The results produced by 
powerless planets will be enjoyed in dreams and thoughts.” 
(Brihat Jataka, Chapter viii ,stanza 22) 

What exactly do we mean by realization of desires through 
dreams and thoughts? It means :- Though there are yogas for 
achieving things , there is some stumbling block for realization 
of desires. 

| wish to cite one example here. In the seventies Indian cricket 
was dominated by the spin Quartet — Prasanna , Bedi, Venkat 
and Chandrasekhar of whom Bedi alone was a left arm spinner. 
In that decade, three great left arm spinners played in domestic 
cricket — Shivalkar, Goel and Dilip Doshi. All of them spent their 
lives in the shadow of Bishen Singh Bedi. If they had played 
cricket when Bedi was not there , all of them would have 
represented India in tests. (Doshi did play test cricket , finally 
after Bedi retired). This is one example | can quote to drive 
home the point we discussed just now — that of achieving 
things in thoughts and desires. It means that since the desire is 
unlikely to fructify, one can at least visualize having achieved 
something and derive some paltry satisfaction out of that. 


The End. 


ASHTAKVARAGA SYATEM OF PREDICTION - PART 26 
BY DR.E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


In our previous article, we discussed how weak planets can mar the prospects 
of a horoscope. We also discussed how Jupiter’s aspect on Venus benefits the 
horoscope. We will continue our discussion , now on Venus and its role in 
Ashtakavarga. 


The complexion, appearance and character of a girl will be in accordance with 
the planetary influences acting on 


(1) Navamsa sign dispositor of Venus. 
(or) 
(2) Navamsa sign dispositor of Moon. 
(or) 


(3) The lord of the 7" house. 

In other words all these three factors have a bearing on the qualitative aspects 
of a girl’s chart. Please note that horoscope matching is done to ensure 
compatibility between boy and the girl. For instance let us say there is Neecha 
bhanga Raja Yoga in the girl’s horoscope while the boy’s chart has Kemadruma 
yoga and Sakata yoga-which are both inauspicious combinations. Logically 
speaking the charts should not be matched. 

Let us say the boy’s parents meet an astrologer. Certainly you cannot expect 
an astrologer to tell his client —“This is a good-for —nothing” chart.So the boy’s 
astrologer would okay any decent chart of a girl while he would be equally 
delighted to approve the alliance of this boy with a girl whose chart is studded 
with Raja yogas. After all the astrologer is working for his client- you cannot 
expect him to reject a good chart because his client’s son’s chart is not good 
and may not match the quality of the girl’s chart.It is upto the girl’s astrologer 
to reject the boy’s chart on the ground that ” it is below average”. This is why 
you come across so many “mismatches” in today’s world. 


Here is an instance of how astrologers get into horns of a dilemma. A 
particular boy’s parents went to meet an astrologer who rejected a girl’s chart 
on the reasoning that the boy’s chart was very good while the girl’s chart was 
below average. 

Incidentally the girl’s father showed the boy’s chart to the very same 
astrologer. On the ground that the girl would benefit by association with a 
superior chart, the astrologer consented to the alliance.The astrologer in 
question was a renowned authority on the subject. 

The boy’s father further telephoned the girl’s father and expressed his regret 
over the fact that the horoscopes didn’t match. The girl’s father said that the 
match was very good and if required he would take him to his astrologer who 
had approved the match. The boy’s father felt too happy but when the girl’s 
father mentioned the astrologer’s name his joy was short lived - after all he 
has consulted the same person. 

They both hit upon an idea. Together with both the horoscopes they went to 
the astrologer’s house and requested him to clarify his opinion. The 
astrologer realized that the boy’s father was rather foolish to come to him for 
a second opinion. Further a learned astrologer should be shown reverence. 
The boy’s father had failed on both these counts and the girl’s father was only 
too keen to exploit the situation. The astrologer finally decided to ask both the 
parties to get out of his house thereby cutting the Gordian knot. 

Before winding up the discussion on this subject, let me reiterate that while 
matching horoscopes , the astrologer cannot put himself in the position of a 
judge , while trying to say “yes” or “no” to an alliance. He is like an advocate, 
who argues a case on behalf of his client, trying to obtain a favorable verdict. 
The astrologer knows the pros and cons of the client’s horoscope. He knows 
the inherent limitations of the chart. His aim is to obtain a best possible match 
for the client. | would prefer the parents of the boy and the girl going to their 
own astrologer and seeking an independent opinion, while making sure, that 
in case of difference in verdict of the two astrologers (or by the same 
astrologer as in the case study presented above), a second opinion or even a 
third view is elicited as marriage being a once-in-a-lifetime affair, should be 
given the importance it deserves. 


Venus with 5 or 6 bindus in a quadrant or trine, gives rise to happiness, 
prosperity and blesses the native with conjugal bliss. 

In this case, if Mars is aspected by Venus, then the wife will be from a noble 
family. 

Please note that while presence of Venus in a quadrant is a welcome 
feature of any horoscope, its presence in quadrant with quadrangular 
ownership will generate Kendradipathya dosha. 

Similarly for Gemini lagna, if Venus occupies the 4" it will get debilitated. For 
Scorpio lagna if Venus is in 4, not only is Kendradipathya dosha generated but 
also the presence of 12" lord in 4 will spoil that bhava. 

For Scorpio lagna if Venus occupies 7, there are three defects given rise to 

(i) Venus in 7 will get Kendradipathya dosha. 

(ii) | “Karako bhavarasaya”- Karaka in bhava spoils that bhava .Venus is karaka 
of 7‘ bhava and therefore can spoil the prospects of 7‘ bhava. 

(iii) © Venus in 7 becomes a “Maraka” or “Killer planet”. 
Before the rule stated above vis-a-vis conjugal bliss is invoked,we have to 
see whether overwhelmingly Venus is a benefic or not. 

In some cases the beneficial output of Venus is negligible, while its 
malefic quality would be quite high. So, prima facie, Venus may be ina 
quadrant, but its intentions have to be studied carefully before a verdict 
is given. 

Coming to the second limb of the rule, Mars aspecting Venus ensures 
that the girl is from a noble family. This is a very important dictum in 
today’s world. In olden days, the lineage of the bridegroom or bride used 
to be a factor for judging the quality of the alliance. Just like a cow is 
judged by its breed, the status of the family could impart its calibre to the 
bride or groom. It is in this context that a Martian aspect on Venus is 
supposed to enhance the nobility of the family. 

Please note that this rule requires a careful application. 

In certain other areas of Astrology, an aspect of Mars on Venus could 
stimulate immoral thoughts and feelings in a boy. Prima Facie, a 
relationship between Mars and Venus results in immoral tendencies. 
Probably the presence of Jupiterean aspect or Mars getting elevated to 


the status of a yogakaraka could be what the Author intended to mean, 
when he wrote that Martian aspect on Venus is beneficial. Please note 
that interse Mars and Venus are not enemies. Mars is a Masculine planet 
while Venus is a feminine planet. So any inter-relationship between 
them will lead its imprint on a horoscope for good or for bad. 

For Ascendants Capricorn and Aquarius Venus is a yogakaraka. For 
Ascendants Leo and Cancer, Mars is a yogakaraka. 

According to Jatakachandrika, “If the same planet owns a quadrant and 
trine, it becomes a yogakaraka. If a Yogakaraka is related to another trinal 
lord, what better yoga can arise which is better than this yoga ?” 
(chapter 2, verse 20) 

So, the relationship discussed above involving a relationship between 
Mars and Venus would be incomplete if we fail to ascertain whether in 
this relationship, either one of them is a yogakaraka. If one of them gets 
elevated to the status of a yogakaraka, the effects of this rule would be 
completely fulfilled. About the role of Venus in Ashtakavarga we will 
discuss more aspects in detail in our next article. 

THE END. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION — PART 27 


BY DR.E.S. NEELAKANTAN 


We are now in the process of discussing various aspects of Venus in Ashtakavarga. We 
continue the discussion in this article. 


When Venus is in Lagna, 4" or the 10" bhava associated with 5 bindus and aspected 
by a benefic, then the person will own good vehicles. If in this combination, Venus occupies 
the house of Mars, then there will be immense wealth and many kinds of vehicles will be 
owned by that person. 


Please note that Venus in Lagna itself is a boon. Venus governs all the things conducive 
to enjoyment in this world. It is also a giver of luxury items. Needless to say, Venus in quadrants 
(barring 7) is capable of giving rise to ownership of good vehicles. 


Please note that Venus in 6 is not good in a birth chart. If a person has Venus in 6 in the 
birth chart that person will be bereft of wealth and much aggrieved. We know that 6,8 and 12 
are evil houses. Venus yields good effects in 8 and 12, whenever it gives evil effects in 6. 


Curiously enough Venus yields evil results in 3 and 7. We know that 3 and 7 are 
“Ishtasthanas” (good Houses) whereas 8 and 12 are “Dustanas” (Bad Houses). Paradoxically 
enough, Venus in 3 and 7 is bad whereas it is good in 8 and 12. Please note that when we are 
discussing about a chart, Venus will have ownership over two houses (which will be decided 
once we arrive at the Ascendant sign). Given the functional role of Venus, the prosperity of 
those two houses, will no doubt, suffer because Venus becomes the occupant of an evil 
house,while in 6,8 or 12. 


It is in these areas of contradictions, that the student needs to study a horoscope with 
care. The same planet may be involved in a dual role; vis-a-vis its natural role it could be 
beneficial, vis-a-vis its functional role, it could be harmful. So, in such cases, Venus in 8 would 
benefit its innate qualities viewed as a Karaka while its role as a bhava lord would prove 
counter-productive for that bhava. 


The second point, we need to discuss is how Venus in 10, could confer vehicles. The 
answer is simple; Venus in 10 would aspect the 4‘ house. When the 4" house comes under the 
aspect of Venus, it would confer good vehicles.Please note that the aspect of Venus per se does 
not have intrinsic merit and we shall discuss this in depth a little later. 


Can you think of any other explanation to justify how Venus in 10 could confer good 
vehicles? I, for one can think of another line of argument to support this theory. 


Moon is the Karaka planet for the 4" house, along with Mercury. We can say that Moon 
(denoting Mother) and Mercury (denoting education) are the primary Karakas of 4°" house. 
However at a secondary level, Venus (denoting comforts,vehicles and Movables) and Mars 
(denoting Immovable property) also play a Karaka role for the 4'" house even though this point 
is not made explicit in ancient textbooks on Astrology. However | would be failing in my duty if 
do not express my gratitude to Shri S.Ganesh who has admirably discussed the issue of 
karakatwas relating to 4" house in “ GANESHA HORA SHASTRAM “ —a lucid treatise on the 
twelve bhavas.What Shri Ganesh has pointed out is that while Moon and Mercury are karakas 
of 4" house ,planets Mars and Venus are also karakas of 4'" house since Mars denotes 
immovable property while Venus denotes Movables(Ibid,Pages 256,257).Hence in the learned 
author’s opinion Moon,Mars,Venus and Mercury become karakas of the Fourth House. 


So, when Venus denoting comforts and vehicles is placed in the 10°", then also the 
native will be blessed with vehicles for the simple reason that among the four quadrants, the 
tenth is the strongest when we look into the “digbala” of a planet. 


Next, we will take up the Ashtakavaraga aspect of this role. Not only Venus should 
occupy Lagna, 4 or 10 but it should also obtain 5 or more bindus in the Ashtakavaraga chart. In 
other words, it becomes strong enough to convert its promise into reality. 


There is an English adage, which says “They talk like angels, but live like Men”. Promises 
are given in plenty but seldom fulfilled. In fact even Lord Balaji is taken for a ride by devotees. 
The prayer is “Give me Rs. X and | promise to donate 10% of X to the temple”. Due to various 
reasons, such promises remain unfulfilled in a number of cases. My suggestion to devotees 
going to Tirupati or any other holy place would be, donate whatever you wish to donate then 
and there — what you can do today do not postpone to tomorrow.When a person’s wish is not 
fulfilled in this birth, then that person might be compelled to take births in future to fulfill the 
commitment. A promise to donate in future is nothing but creation of “Agami Karma” ( Karma 
of the future ). Scriptures say “Wear out prarabdha Karma but avoid creating Agami Karma”. 
Our present suffering is explained by Law of Karma. That being the case, to create fresh Karma 
would be to create karma which would fructify in future.When the present life of a person itself 
is so miserable,why should anyone undertake future commitments and perpetuate suffering? 
As well,why not suffer for past karmas now and try and attain Mukti in this birth itself.In this 
context | invite the reader’s attention to the Biblical verse quoted from the words of 
Mathew(6:34). 


Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought 
for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day [is] the evil thereof. 


- King James Version (1769 Oxford "Authorized Version’) 


Coming to own discussion, the promise held out by Venus is translated into reality by the 
presence of 5 bindus. Else, the promise will remain just a promise-nothing more, nothing less. 


The next point we need to appreciate is that this yoga is complete only when there is a 
benefic aspecting Venus. The fundamental principle is this 


> The aspect of a benefic nullifies evil; augments good. 
> The aspect of a malefic nullifies good; augments evil. 

Only those planets which have “Special aspect” can fulfill the role of an aspecting planet 
effectively. 

1) Mars apart from aspecting the 7" also aspects 4 and 8; 
2) Similarly Jupiter aspects 5 and 9 apart from 7; 
3) Saturn aspects 3 and10 apart from 7. 

In other words, whenever the role of an aspecting planet is described in Astrology, it 
relates only to Jupiter, Mars or Saturn. 

The aspects of Sun, Moon, Venus and Mercury are not capable of producing the desired 
effect. So, Venus should be aspected by a benefic means it can only be the aspect of Jupiter. 
Mercury is usually very close to Venus; So it can never aspect Venus; Waxing Moon is also a 
benefic and it can aspect Venus, but as discussed earlier, this is not what the founding fathers 
of the science meant when they discussed about planetary aspects. 


Please note that in certain cases, a planet can simultaneously be aspected by a malefic 
as well as a benefic. In such cases, what is the effect? Now, | want to explain this in the light of 
some of the “experiments” we did in our school days. We used to take a convex lens and show 
it on a paper, in sunlight. That paper will immediately catch fire. If you bring a pair of lens over 
that paper, the two lenses will neutralize each other and the paper will not catch fire. If you 
bring a third lens, then that will magnify the effect of sunlight and the paper will catch 
fire.(while the remaining two lenses neutralize each other) 


Suppose, both Jupiter and Saturn, together aspect Venus. What is the nature of Venus? 
It is a natural benefic. Take the aspecting planets — Jupiter and Saturn. That planet whose 
nature is contrary to the aspected planet will do its role first. This means Venus being a benefic 
will have its quality nullified by the aspect of Saturn. The aspect of Jupiter of this Saturn- 
aspected Venus, will revive and augment the benefic nature of Venus. 


Let us for the sake of argument, replace Venus by Mars. Mars will become a neutral 
planet, thanks to the aspect it receives from Jupiter. The aspect of Saturn will revive the 
intrinsic malefic nature of Mars. 


The next principle which we discussed is the occupation of Martian house by Venus. 
Mars is not an enemy of Venus and vice versa. This is not to say that Mars and Venus are 
friends. They are neutrals. Two planets become enemies when one of them owns the sixth 
house from the other. For example, Taurus is sixth from Sagittarius. Venus which owns Taurus 
is an enemy of Jupiter, which owns Sagittarius. Both Jupiter and Venus are benefic but since 
one of them owns the sixth from the other they become enemies. 


Please refer to the chapter on Rajayogas in Mantreswara’s Phaladeepika. 

“When Venus occupies Ashwini star in the Ascendant and is aspected by three or more 
planets, it will bring into the world, a king who will vanquish all his enemies (Ibid, Chapter 7 
Verse 8) 

Ashwini star falls in the Martian sign Aries. A King is naturally blessed with lots of 
immovable property and vehicles. In fact, the entire area in a kingdom belongs to the king. 
According to some historians, in ancient times, land belonged to the crown and no individual 
was permitted to own it. Hence if a person were to become a king, automatically he would 
become the owner of vast lands besides vehicles. 


| would advise the reader to compare this view of Mantreswara with the Ashtakavarga 
principles. My view is that Mantreswara’s verse is a slightly abridged version of the 
Ashtakavarga concept. 


Instead of Venus occupying a house of Mars, it is supposed to occupy Ashwini star. 
(Ashwini is in the Martian sign Aries) Instead of a benefic, three planets need to aspect Venus. 
There is no mention about bindus. The Ashtakavarga rule states that the person would get 
immovable property and vehicles whereas Mantreswara’s rule when satisfied would elevate a 
person to the status of a king. 


THE END 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION - PART 28 


By Dr. E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


In our previous part, we discussed the relationship between Venus 
and ownership of vehicles. We continue the discussion on Venus in this 
part. 


When Venus is in a quadrant, other than the 7" bhava or ina trine 
from Lagna associated with 5 or more bindus and is not aspected by 
Mars, the person marries early in life. 


This rule is supported by the general rules of Astrology. A planet ina 
quadrant or trine is a sure indicator of positive results pertaining to that 
planet. Venus is the Karaka planet of 7" house and therefore gives early 
marriage while in a quadrant or trine. As Karaka in Bhava, Venus in 7 is 
not good. Hence Venus in a quadrant is good provided that quadrant 
happens to be Lagna ,4 or 10. The aspect of Mars can spoil Venus. 
Firstly Mars is a Masculine planet, while Venus is feminine. Venus is a 
soft planet while Mars is aggressive. Thirdly Venus is a natural benefic 
while Mars is a natural malefic. In Ayurveda , Venus denotes the water 
(kapha) element, while Mars denotes the fire (pitta) element. Water’s 
tendency is to put out fire . Hence the blending of the Martian and 
Venusion influences may not give fulfillment in marriage. 


There is a classic work by Dr. John Gray titled “ Men are from Mars, 
Women are from Venus”. It is an all time bestseller. Once a doctor 
friend of mine told me, “ All those who get married should read this 
book. The husband and wife should read this book together.” We know 


that the biological framework of aman and a woman are dissimilar. 
Hence they are bound to react in different ways while dealing with 
similar situations. This book extensively deals with those areas. 


When faced with a problem, a man will remain silent; a woman will 
keep talking about about her problems. Many marriages end in divorce 
because the couple are never given to understand how a woman’s 
mental make-up isdifferent from that of a man at a biological level. 


When Venus is with 5 bindus in debilitation rasi or navamsa but under 
the influence of Mars, the person will undergo great difficulties and will 
get married. 


When Venus has 5 bindus,, the urge to get married is there. The 
placement of Venus in Virgo coupled with the Martian influences can 
afflict Venus. Hence difficulties surface in marriage. Unafflicted Venus is 
a boon. Please note that aspect of Mars on Venus is more harmful than 
its conjunction. Mars is a planet whose malefic quality is fully present 
on the house it aspects. 


Venus is in a trine or in the second house aspected by malefic will 
create several obstacles for marriage. 


Venus, well placed will give marriage. But for that to happen, it should 
be devoid of malefic aspect. When malefic influences are absent , 
marriage is a smooth affair. When malefics influence Venus, no doubt 
marriage will take place but lot of obstacles will be there. 


Life is nothing but an exercise in overcoming obstacles. It was Thomas 
Alva Edison who said that the way Nature goes about its job, there is 
nothing to suggest that it is conducive to life . Take Iceland for example. 
Lots of people live there not because of the climate, but in spite of that. 


In such countries, people live and in great comfort too because they 
have overcome their obstacles. 


Recently a doctor who is running a Hospital in a rural area narrated 
an anecdote. A senior official of a company met him for undergoing a 
minor surgery. The reason was that the official was working in a city 
and everyone would come to know about the surgery. To avoid this he 
was going to the town hospital to undergo the surgery. On the surgery 
date, the nurse who was supposed to come , took leave. A nurse in 
another ward acted as a substitute. Everything went off well and the 
official upon returning home wrote a thanksgiving letter expressing 
gratitude to the doctor. The nurse who helped the doctor enquired 
about the patient and the doctor explained the whole episode to her. 
She was astonished. Only four days back, her husband had applied for 
the job in the same concern ,where the patient worked. The doctor 
while replying to the thanksgiving letter , gave the details of the job 
applicant and added a line of recommendation . The nurse’s husband 
got the job. 


The doctor himself told me the moral of this real life incident. The 
patient was living in the city and never needed to come to him. The 
nurse was not supposed to help him but was inducted as a substitute. 
But for this coincidence, the nurse’s husband would never have got the 
job. So you need not go in search of things. You need not wish for 
things to happen. Whatever is pre-destined or ordained will happen 
because that is how the universe is programmed to function . If God 
has a certain plan for you, it will automatically happen, irrespective of 
your thoughts or actions. No obstacle can stand in the way of divine 
will. 


If the lord of the sign occupied by Venus is in a quadrant or trine from 
Ascendant and associated by 5 bindus in the Ashtakavarga of Venus, 
the person will be blessed with wealth , lands, vehicles and good 
fortune. 


This is a rule which correctly brings out the importance of sign 
dispositors. 


In Astrology both Rasi Sign dispositor as well as Navamsa sign 
dispositor play a pivotal role. However in practice, their role is 
underestimated. Please note that according to Jataka Chandrika neither 
the second lord nor the 12™ lord give any effects on their own. Their 
effects are determined only by the sign- dispositor. 


| will give an example to clarify this point. Chris Gayle may play for 
Royal Challengers , Bangalore this season in IPL. But the next year, he 
may play for Mumbai Indians . Really speaking Chris Gayle has no 
relationship with either Bangalore or Mumbai because he hails from 
West Indies. Whichever club, he gets associated with, he supports 
them. 


The 2™ lord or the 12" lord may occupy some house in the birth 
chart. They have no preferences on their own. They look to the sign 
dispositor for direction. If the sign dispositor is beneficially disposed, 
they too turn benefics; Else they are malefic in their functional role. 


Venus is a planet which leads with Material pleasures . Wealth, 
lands and vehicles all add up to a good worldly life and enjoyment. We 
say that a person is fortunate if he is blessed with wealth and 
enjoyments. Venus is also a bestower of good fortune because it 


happens to be the Karaka planet of the 7 which happens to be the 
11" to the 9°" ; In other words it denotes gain of good fortune. 


ASHTAKA VARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION (PART 29) 


By Dr. E.S.Neelakantan 


We are now discussing the various aspects of Venus in 
Ashtakavarga and we continue the same in this article. 


If the lord of the house occupied by Venus is in the 6" or 8" 
house from Venus and in a trine from lagna, the person will ill- 
treat his wife and also become a pauper in course of time. 


Maybe this rule appears paradoxical. A person, who loves his 
wife, will take her to the beach, to the movies, to restaurant 
etc. especially in the initial stages of married life, until the 
euphoric wears off. In the case of the marriage after romance, 
this phase occurs in the pre-marriage phase, while nothing 
remarkable will happen in the post marriage phase. In these 
cases, the person who treats his wife could be expected to 
become a pauper, not in course of time , but then and there — 
especially in the last few days of every calendar month! The 
policy of this: When money is there, live like a king, when 
money is not there, live like a pauper. There was a Tamil movie, 
where the hero plays a dual role, hoodwinking his employer. 
The noted Tamil poet Kannadasan who penned the lyrics of the 
title wrote: 


“He who came in the guise of a son-in-law, had no bride on 
hand, to marry; 


“He, who came in the guise of a king, had no kingdom to rule”. 


Why | am quoting these lyrics here, is that in today’s world 
you cannot distinguish a King from a pauper — both of them 
look alike! 


Coming to the rule | quoted just now, the peculiarity is not 
only that the person will ill-treat his wife but also become 
pauper. My advice to all astrologers at this juncture is this: If 
you detect this rule in the chart of any boy either advice him to 
remain single or become an ascetic, then and there — Hope you 
will appreciate my suggestion; you can at least save a girl’s life! 


When the lords of 5 and 7*" houses are in trine to each other 
and Mars is in the 7" from lagna, the person will be abandoned 
by his wife. 


Note the subtle distinction between this rule and the one | 
discussed earlier. There, the husband was the villain but here 
the wife is the villain. But you cannot blame the wife here, since 
this combination appears in the husband’s chart! The correct 
interpretation of this rule is this; if this combination appears in 
the husband’s chart, it is an indication, that due to some bad 
Karma in earlier birth, he is destined to remain single. 


One more point | wish to stress here. These adverse yogas 
tend to come true even if you try your level best to avoid it. If a 
person is destined to undergo separation, that person will get 
married and undergo the trauma of divorce. It cannot be 
avoided by attempting to remain as a bachelor. If you are 
destined to take birth and suffer, you will take birth and suffer: 
you cannot avoid being born. Therefore the emphasis is on 
performance of good karma, now and here. 


As far as Sanchita Karma is concerned, you are helpless; but 
as far as future is concerned what you do now is the Sanchita 
Karma of the future. You cannot do anything about Prarabhda 
Karma either. You can avoid getting into the trap of adverse 
Agami Karma. You can be proactive and prevent conversion of 
Sanchita into Prarabhdha Karma. In other words if you take full 
responsibility for all the three kinds of Karma — Sanchita, 
Prarabhdha and Agami —you can pull yourself out of the 
woods. 


When Mars or Saturn is in the 7™ bhava and the lord of the 
seventh bhava has navamsa in the house of Saturn or Mars or 
has an aspect from them, then the native’s wife will be 
immoral. 


| want to break up this rule into various components, so that it 
can be understood properly since conceptual clarity will be 
there. 


a) Mars in 7 

b) Saturn in 7 

c) Lord of 7 occupies navamsa of Mars. 
d) Lord of 7 occupies navamsa of Saturn. 
e) Mars aspects 7 

f) Saturn aspects 7 


In short, the 7" house gets connected in Mars or Saturn in 
three different ways 


a) Occupation 

b) Aspect 

c) Navamsa sign — dispositorship. 
Both Mars and Saturn represent the quality of Tamas. 
Hence in no way, they can improve the content of 7 
house. You might ask me one question; If Cancer is 
lagna and Saturn is in the 7" house as lord of 7, will this 
rule apply? The author is not talking about ownership 
of houses or yogakaraka status or any other matter 
related to the planet. The rule is plain and simple ; 
Nexus is between 7‘" house and Mars ‘Nexus is between 
7 house and Saturn ; Both these prospects will affect 
the marital prospects of 7" house vis-a vis morality of 
the spouse. 

There may be chart where Mars conjoins Jupiter in 

the 7". In another chart Saturn may aspect the iki along 


with Jupiter. In these cases, this rule will not apply. The 
question of loose morals will never have application, 
whenever the influence of Jupiter is present. 

Both Jupiter and Mercury have a beneficial impact on 
whichever house they aspect or occupy. So the 
foremost task of an astrologer is to compile the 
influence of benefics on 7™ house - If the influence of 
benefics outweigh the influence of malefics , one will be 
blessed with a good wife and married life will result in 
happiness and prosperity. 


| would like to offer my views on the scientific validity of 
Astrology. Astrology is basically axiomatic; you assume 
the rules to be true and interpret the science. The main 
attack launched against Astrology by skeptics is its 
scientific validity. My question is; can you prove 
Darwin’s evolutionary theory or the Big bang theory ina 
laboratory? These are scientifically accepted theories 
even though there are skeptics who question the 
validity of these theories. In this context | wish to 
narrate a real life incident about how a lawyer in New 
Orleans proved the title to a property much to the 
satisfaction of the lending institution and got the 
sanction for a mortgage loan. Here is the actual story. 


A New Orleans lawyer sought an Federal Housing 
Administration loan(or in short, a FHA loan) for a client 
who lost his house in Hurricane Katrina and wanted to 
rebuild. He was told the loan would be granted if he 
could prove satisfactory title to the parcel of property 
being offered as collateral security. The title to the 
property dated back to 1803, which took the lawyer 
three months to track down. After sending the 
information to the FHA, he received the following reply. 
“Upon review of your letter adjoining your client's loan 
application, we note that the request is supported by an 
Abstract of Title. While we compliment the able manner 
in which you have prepared and presented the 
application, we must point out that you have 

only cleared title to the proposed collateral property 
back to 1803. Before final approval can be accorded, it 
will be necessary to clear the title back to its origin." 


Annoyed, the lawyer responded as follows ... 

"Your letter regarding title in Case No. 767 has 

been received. | note that you wish to have title 
extended further than the 194 years covered by the 
present application. | was unaware that any educated 
person in this country, particularly those working in the 
property area, would not know that Louisiana was 


purchased, by the U.S., from France in 1803, the year of 
origin identified in our application. For the edification 
of uninformed FHA bureaucrats, the title to the land 
prior to US ownership was obtained from France, which 
had acquired it by Right of Conquest from Spain. The 
land came into the possession of Spain by Right of 
Discovery made in the year 1492 by a sea captain 
named Christopher Columbus, who had been granted 
the privilege of seeking a new route to India by the 
Spanish monarch, Isabella. The good queen, Isabella, 
being a pious woman and almost as careful about titles 
as the FHA, took the precaution of securing the blessing 
of the Pope before she sold her jewels to finance 
Columbus’ expedition. Now the Pope, as I'm sure you 
may know, is the emissary of Jesus Christ, the Son of 
God, and God, it is commonly accepted, created this 
world. Therefore, | believe it is safe to presume that 
God also made that part of the world called Louisiana. 
God, therefore, would be the owner of origin and His 
origins date back to before the beginning of time, the 
world as we know it. | hope you find God's original claim 
to be satisfactory. Now, may we have our damn loan?" 


The loan was immediately sanctioned and the applicant 
got the cheque for the loan amount. 


Maybe this how Astrologers need to prove the validity 
of Astrology when confronted by skeptics! 


THE END. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 


PREDICTION (PART -30) 
By Dr. E.S.Neelakantan 


With this part, we enter into the thirtieth part in our 
series on Ashtakavarga , continuing our discussion on Venus. 


When Venus is associated with 4 bindus in Virgo, either 
in Rasi or Navamsa ,, aspected by Mars, then there will be 
scandal about one’s wife. 


When Venus with three bindus or less, is in Aquarius or 
Capricorn in Rasi or Navamsa with Martian aspect, the person’s 
wife will be an adulteress . 


Please note that both the yogas discussed above are not yogas 
as such but duryogas. They are undesirable combinations. 
Please note that these combinations do not determine the 
character of a person — instead they define the character of the 
person whom he is supposed to marry or is married to. 


Let us say a boy is born in 1985.Ordinarily when will the girl 
whom he marries be born? Let us assume an age gap of 3 years, 
which is what most people prefer in today’s world. Then the girl 
should be born sometime in 1988. Then how does the birth 
chart of the person born in 1985 determine the birth chart of 
the person born in 1988? 


If you follow my argument carefully you will appreciate the 
beauty of the law of Karma. If two people are destined to 
marry, they will take birth within a span of three years or so 
due to the operation of law of Karma. 


A boy born in 1885 cannot marry a girl born in 1975, 
because by that time the first mentioned person should be no 
more; he may not even be alive to see the girl, leave alone the 
age gap. 

Now | will present the second part of my argument. If all girls 
born in 1988 were chaste, then the boy born in 1985 cannot 
marry an adulteress and therefore the rule will fail. 


So, the logic is the birth of a boy having this bad yoga will 
trigger the birth of a girl who is unchaste and the final operative 
part of the rule is that this boy will marry that girl with bad 
character. 


How the law of Karma works can be comprehended by the 
following statements:- 


- Due to bad Karma, a person marries a girl with bad 
character. 

- Due to bad Karma, a girl is born with bad character. 

- Due to similarity of bad Karma and due to Karmic link, they 
become Man and wife. 


To detect this combination an astrologer should have 
what is called “presence of mind”. One who opts to 
become a Yogi should have “absence of mind”. One who 
wishes to practice astrology should have “presence of 
mind”. | can give two examples to show what is meant by 
“Presence of mind”. 

When Sir C.V.Raman was conferred the Noble prize, he 
was invited to the Awards function. During the 
presentation, Dr. C.V Raman explained to the other 
scientists, the Raman Effect on various substances, 
including alcohol. According to protocol, there would be a 
cocktail party after the presentation and Dr.Raman being a 
strict teetotaler had to think of some valid reason to 
abstain from the party. At that moment, he had a brilliant 
idea; he told the fellow scientists, “Sir, just now | 
demonstrated the Raman Effect on Alcohol. | don’t wish to 
demonstrate the Alcohol Effect on Raman .” So Dr. Raman 
was able to uphold his personal habits and at the same 
time do it in such a way that would not offend the 
sentiments of the scientists, who had assembled for the 
great occasion. 

During a Test Match at Lords, the rival captains, 
Mike Brearley of England and Venkataraghavan of India, 
went for the Toss. As they were walking to the middle 
Venkat asked Mike , what he would do upon winning the 


Toss. Brearley said he would elect to field. Venkat knew 
that in case he won the Toss, he would bat first. So Venkat 
told Brearley , “Mike , you want to bowl first and | want to 
bat- so do we need a Toss?” The rival Captains shook 
hands and walked back to the pavilion. The next day the 
tabloids reported , Venkat won the Toss and elected to bat, 
but what really happened that day was, there was no Toss 
at all since the rival captains were having contrary 
intentions which did away the requirement of a Toss. 

Scandal involving woman is nothing new to India — 
India’s oldest epic, Ramayana deals with this subject in 
elaborate measure. Rama had to banish Sita due to an 
allegation made by a washer man questioning her 
character. This chapter is also the subject matter of the 
work, Uttararama charita of Bhavabhuti. Please note that 
with the passage of time this matter has become archaic 
and people have neither the time nor the inclination to 
discuss scandals. Due to severe economic crisis all over the 
world, people have no time even to think about 
themselves, leave alone others. 

We will discuss the crux of the rules we saw just now. 
Mars, Saturn and the sign Virgo are factors governing the 
rule. Please note that Venus denotes passion, Mars 
aggression and Saturn, dullness of mind. Bad character can 
be due to aggression, whose cause is Rajas or due to 


dullness of mind which is caused by Tamas. Mars rules 
over Rajas while Saturn rules over Tamas.Venus rules over 
passions, which is Rajas. So the influence of Mars or Saturn 
over Venus creates bad character. 

Astrologers in Kerala interpret the Madhyama rajju to 
mean that inter se there are nine stars, which do not 
match. These are as follows: 

Category Stars 

| Pushya, Anuradha, Uttara bhadrapada 
lI Bharani, Poorvaphalguni, Poorvashada. 
HI Mrgashira, Chitra, Dhanishta. 


If you analyze these three categories, the first category 
is governed by Saturn, second by Venus and third by Mars. 
So a boy who is born ina star ruled by Mars, Saturn or 
Venus should not marry a girl born under a similar star. 
Please note that this is a draconian law as nine stars will 
get rejected ab initio if a person in a Madhyama Rajju star. 

In both the rules we discussed just now, Venus should 
have fewer than 4 bindus , which makes it weak. When 
Venus is in Virgo, the quality of the planet suffers. Contrast 
this with Malavya yoga. In that, Venus must occupy either 
its own or its exaltation sign to qualify for that yoga. 

Venus in a saturnine sign is also a contra-indication for 
chastity of spouse. Please note that these rules need strict 


interpretation, not liberal interpretation. This is why | 
elaborately discussed why an astrologer should have 
presence of mind. 

The purpose of this discussion is to drive home the 
fact that Venus gives bad results while in Virgo, with less 
number of Bindus , afflicted by Martian aspect and also 
while occupying either the Rasi or an Amsa of Saturn. 


THE END. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION — PART 31. 
By Dr. E.S. Neelakantan 


In this part we continue our discussion on Ashtakavarga features of Venus. 


When Venus is associated with 4 bindas and is placed in Virgo sign or Virgo Navamsa, aspected by Mars, 
there will be scandal about a person’s wife; 


When Venus with 3 bindus occupies Capricorn or Aquarius in Rasi or in Navamsa with Martian aspect 
then that person will become the spouse of an adultress. 


Both these rules need no explanation. The rationale behind these combinations were explained in the 
earlier part. The salient feature of these combinations is that nexus between Venus, Saturn and Mars 
would lead to a person marrying an immoral girl. Please note that there is no strict definition for the 

term “morality” — so one has to go only by the dictionary meaning. 


Here is an anecdote. A person sold a house to another person. The buyer upon digging the earth in the 
backyard stumbled upon a pot of gold. The rule in those days was a finder of buried treasure has to give 
it to the King. The buyer faithfully handed it over to the King with a request to give it to the seller, who 
was the legitimate owner of that treasure. The seller informed the King that the treasure was not his as 
he was never aware of the existence of the buried treasure and since the property had changed hands, 
it is the buyer who should be the true owner of the treasure. The King was in a fix and adjourned the 
case by a day. 


When the case was heard on that day, the seller claimed the buried treasure to be his as he had merely 
sold the house, not the treasure: the buyer having acquired the property claimed that anything found in 
the house should be his as the seller had no title at present either to the property or any hidden 
treasures found therein. In the course of a single day, both parties had changed their stance completely 
and given up the ethical stance taken on the previous day. 


The King said, “1 am not surprised. Till yesterday we were in Dwapara yuga. Today we have entered 
Kaliyuga. That explains the changed mindset of the rival parties” Nobody knows what was the 
judgment given by the Kind but the word “morality” in kaliyuga means not doing harm to others 
whereas, in the earlier yugas, one had to be of positive help to society. 


Acts such as those mentioned in the rules quoted above were considered sins and also illegal once upon 
atime. But today the view is, you can do anything but a third party should not be affected. The point to 
be noted is that laws in all Countries have undergone a change in these matters, but the laws of 
astrology are bound to remain the same, forever. 


When Venus with 5 bindus occupies the house or Amsa of Mars, one will be fond of other’s wives. The 
above rule is simple. When does one become fond of other’s wives? When one is discontented with 
one’s own married life. There are many affluent people who keep running after money even though 
they have enough money to last for several generations. Likewise the people who chase women are 
into two categories — those who having tasted success in marriage, need more to satisfy their carnal 
appetite and those who have tasted failure, who look out for greener pastures elsewhere. Venus binds 


us to the material world of desires and illusions. Mars — Venus relationship is a sure formula for 
suffering especially relating to the emotions connected to unfulfilled carnal desires. 


Mars in the 6the house, Moon in the 7™ and Venus in the 12°" (with one of them related to Saturn/Rahu) 
gives union with a widow. 


Please note that the word “widow” in the above context is not used in a derogatory sense. Here it 
means union with a girl who is already married and who lives after her husband’s death. Scriptures 
prohibit union with a widow but in today’s world, legally there is no bar. A girl already married to 
someone, would in course of her married life developed her own patterns in married life. Marriage is 
like a Ballet Dance. The husband and wife together fall into a specific life pattern. After the husband’s 
demise, with a new person around, she would have to get out of her groove and fall into a new pattern, 
which is always difficult. Naturally the quality of the second marriage would be inferior to the first one, 
though there may be several exceptions. The above rule is suggestive of an inferior marriage experience 
arising out of the relationship of Saturn and Rahu with Moon, Venus and Mars. Here Mars in the 6 
directly aspects Venus in the 12". Moon in the 7" shows that the mind of the person gets connected to 
the base experiences indicated by the Mars — Venus relationship. 


A person will marry an older woman, if Moon is in 7, Venus is in Pisces and Lord of 7 is related to Rahu. 
According to scriptures, a boy should marry a girl, who should be younger in age. The astrological rule 
quoted above is in conflict with scriptures. This brings us to an important fact in our philosophy:- Rules 
of Jyothisha Sastra are not subordinate to rules of Dharma Sastra. 


Jyothisha Sastra outlines the course of destiny. Dharma Sastra give sagacious guidelines for leading a 
happy life. If a rule of Jyothisha Sastra is in conflict with Dharma Sastra, it means that the person whose 
chart is covered by that rule, will come to grief eventually. 


Dharma Sastras say that a boy should marry a girl: 


Who is unmarried 

Who is unrelated 

Who has brothers 

Who is compatible 

Who is free from diseases 
Who is younger in age 


All the Astrological rules we have discussed so far in this article are violative of the tenets of Dharma 
Sastras. 


One will be lascivious if Venus associated with more than 3 bindus is in Pisces in Navamsa and Venus is 
aspected by Mars. 


A person becomes libidinous in the above case due to these factors: 
a) Being exalted in Navamsa 


b) Having more number of Bindus 
C) Getting Martian aspect. 


Persons in whose charts Mars aspects Venus are generally libidinous. So care is required in 
interpretation of such charts. Immoral sexual behavior will be the rule in such charts, rather than an 
exception. 


By seeing this rule, if an astrologer were to predict the character of the person, it will turn out correct in 
a large percentage of cases. Astrologers gain fame on account of their knowledge, accuracy in 
predictions and in many cases due to the planetary positions in their birth chart. Sometimes a person’s 
forecast comes true due to Vaksiddhi or power of speech. 


| would like to narrate an anecdote here. Near my house lives a physician who has a miraculous healing 
touch. You get cured when you take the first dose of his prescribed medicine. | have personally 
experienced this a number of times. Increasingly | became curious as to how this is possible. In cases 
where self medication is adopted, the disease aggravates, whereas this physician using the same 
medicine is able to cure it instantaneously. One day | decided to confront this doctor with a question, “ 
Sir, everyone believes you have a magic healing touch. You are getting large number of patients. | 
would have dismissed this as superstition but for the fact that | have personally experienced this many 
times. Tell me your secret?” 


The physician calmly replied, “ Actually there is no magic involved. The life of virus is only about 48 to 
72 hours. What happens is that the patient resorts to self medication in the first 24-48 hours. The 
disease gets aggravated. By the time he visits me, the germs are almost dead. | know from my 
experience, what medicine will work for a particular disease. When he takes the first dose, the germs 
are fully eliminated and the patient becomes normal. The “miracle ” is mainly because the patient 
comes to meet me at the fag end of the disease cycle.” 


Likewise some of the predictions of Astrologers might appear startling. But if one were to probe how 
the predictions were made, it will become clear that the astrologer has understood the basic laws 
correctly. Great predictions can be easily made applying fundamental principles. 


OK 2K 2K 2K ee 2 2 OK OK OK OK RK OK OK OK KOR KK KK KK RK KK OK KK RK KK KOK OK KOK KK KK KK KK KK KKK KK KKK 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION - PART 32 


Dr. E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


In our pervious part, we discussed certain rules connected to nature of 
spouse a person will get and scriptural injunctions regarding eligibility 
criteria for marriage. We, now continue our discussion on the 
Ashtakavarga rules relating to Venus in this part. 


A person will cohabit with a blind woman if Venus is in the 6" git or 
12" house with 2 or 3 bindus in conjunction with (or aspected by ) 
Saturn. 


The noted Tamil poet, Kannadasan , once wrote a lyric in the movie , 
Paarthal Pasi Theerum(1962). 
Kodi asaindhadhum katru vandhadha 
Kaatru vandhadhum kodi asaindhadha 


Nilavu vandhadhum malar malarndhadha 
Malar malarndhadhal nilavu vandhadha 


Kann thirandhadhum katchi vandhadha 
Katchi vandhadhum kann thirandhadha 
Paruvam vandhadhum aasai vandhadha 
Aasai vandhadhum paruvam vandhadha 

Because creepers are moving the breeze is blowing; or the breeze 
while blowing is causing the movement of creepers: Because the moon 
has risen the flowers are blooming; or the blooming flowers are causing 


the moonrise. 


Because my eyes are open, | am experiencing this beautiful sight: or 
the beauty is making me see; Because | am an adult | am getting 


desires; or these growing desires indicate that | have reached 
adulthood; 


Applying the poet’s wisdom to the principle above, it is not clear 
whether the spouse at the time of marriage will be blind or the girl who 
marries this chartholder will become blind. It is also not clear whether 
the “blind woman” is a spouse or not. In any case, union with a person 
who has this combination in the birth chart is an avoidable risk for any 
girl. Parents of girls should go to a competent astrologer and request 
the astrologer to select good horoscopes before checking compatibility. 


The trend now is to check if the boy is very affluent, is a software 
engineer and green card holder and all that an astrologer needs to do is 
nod his head. The astrologer is not expected to play the spoilsport for 
this alliance. His motto should be: When the groom is a “green card 
holder”, show the “green card” to the alliance. 


When the lord of the 9" is in the 7", 7™ lord in a house owned by 
Jupiter and malefic occupy the 7" house, the person will have union 
with a woman having a defective limb. 


This verse gives the yoga for marrying a physically challenged girl. 
Please note that 9°" lord in 7 is good; so also is the presence of 7" lord 
in Jupiter’s house. These two factors confer marriage. The malefic in 7 
plays the spoil sport. They force the native to marry a girl with defective 
limb. 


Please note that any physical handicap arises out of a blemish on the 
5" house. The 5" house is the most important house in any chart hence 
it rules “poorvapunya”- merits of past births. A person is unlikely to be 
physically challenged if the 5"" house is strong. 


| wish to sound a word of warning here: Just as the karma of earlier 
births rules the 5" house, the karma of the present birth rules the sad 
house of your future birth. This sequence will continue till the day, you 
attain Mukti or liberation. If the karma is good you get the reward; if 
the karma is bad you get the punishment. The laws of the universe 
make you liable to happiness or suffering based on past karma. Ina 
way, Astrology is a good science to enforce moral conduct and ethical 
values. 


Sathya Sai baba of Puttaparthi once said, “The concept of divine grace 
or Providence gets toppled by the law of karma”. Even God cannot save 
a person whose fortunes are adversely affected by past karma. Asa 
palliative measure, astrologers are advising their clients to wear gems 
or amulets, chant mantras, visit temples, change their name and in 
various ways ameliorate their suffering. | wish to add one more to this 
list: “Take stock of your Karma today.” If you continue to indulge in 
bad karma, then your propensity to suffer will continue. You will notice 
a significant improvement in your life, the moment you give up 
selfishness and dedicate your life to the overall good of the universe. 


When one malefic is in 9 and another malefic occupies the 2"? while 
the lord of 9 is in 7, the same results discussed earlier will follow. 


Both 7°" and 2" have a nexus in the sense that 7"” indicates spouse 
while 2™ indicates family. Family includes spouse. The second house 
therefore has broader connotations than the seventh. 


When Saturn or Mars occupies the 2”? or 7 house and Venus is in the 
12" the person will marry a second time, even when the first wife is 
alive. 


Before we understand this rule, let me ask you a basic question: Why 
should a person marry a second time, when the first wife is alive? 
Obviously it is due to lust and for no other reason. The rule discussed 
above pertains to a marriage which has an unethical basis. Both Mars 
and Saturn are malefics . Saturn represents tamas or the quality of 
dullness while the Mars rules over Rajas or passions. Such people are 
ruled by the heart, rather than by the head. For gratification of senses, 
they may go to any level, one of which is marrying a second time, when 
the first wife is alive. Please note that bigamy, in ancient times was not 
a taboo. King Dasaratha (Sri Rama’s father) had three wives But Lord 
Vishnu as Sri Rama set up an example for the world by marrying Sita 
alone. 


Venus in the 12" shows that the person will enjoy connubial 
pleasures. Hence these three planets when located in the above 
mentioned houses become conducive to polygamy. 


When the lord of 7" is in Cancer and is associated with or aspected by 
a malefic, one will have two wives. 


Before we understand this rule , let us look at the effects of Venus in 
Cancer. According to Varahamihira Venus in Cancer gives two wives ; 
chartholder is full of passions and begets sorrow on account of that 
(vide Brihat jataka, chapter 18, verse 16). Please note that the above 
results accrue due to the Kalatra-Karaka in Cancer. 


But the rule we discussed above gives us an idea of the evil results 
that follow due to the presence of the 7" lord (Kalatra lord) in Cancer 
with malefic. This means that the sign Cancer has an important role to 
play in marriage. 


1) The mere presence of Venus in Cancer would lead to bigamy and 
consequential suffering. 

2) Presence of 7" lord in Cancer with malefic would lead to bigamy. 
Now , | wish to raise one question : 
What happens if a person is born with Capricorn as rising sign 
with the Moon in Cancer in conjunction with Venus? 
Before we answer this question, we need to understand, that 
Moon as 7" lord in 7 is pretty good and in conjunction with the 
Yogakaraka,Venus. Obviously this might not be adverse to the 
chartholder in relation to marriage prospects. 


Any rule in Astrology needs care in interpretation. Astrologers in 
general should aspire to have high levels of interpretational skills, 
for which they need to have patience while learning the subject 
and ability to think out of the box or rather, comprehend “fuzzy 
logic”. 

Here is an example: A professor who was staying close to a 
college, used to keep the main door open, while going to the 
college. One day he was cautioned that due to incidents of 
burglary in the neighborhood he should lock the house as a safety 
measure and the suggestion was implemented. That same day 
there was a theft in his house. When the door was left open, the 
thief probably felt there was someone inside the house. Seeing 
the house locked, he broke open the lock and stole the valuables. 
This is what | mean by “Fuzzy logic”. Many times we come to 
wrong conclusions by adopting plain logic rather than “Fuzzy 
logic” 


Both patience and perseverance are valuable assets for any 
astrologer. Recently an airline company conducted an interview 
for the job of cabin crew, or in other words that of an Airhostess. 
The interview was scheduled at 9.30AM. The candidate who 
appeared was told to wait in the lobby by the receptionist. The 
clock turned 11AM but the Interviewer had not turned up. The 
candidate could have checked up with the receptionist over the 
delay but decided to wait as she was in no hurry. The Interviewer 
turned up at 11.45AM, apologized for his delay and took the 
candidate to the conference room. The Interviewer asked the first 
question: “What do you think is the reason for my delay?” for 
which she replied, “Probably you had some other urgent work”. 
The Interviewer said,” No. | came late deliberately. You 
mentioned in your bio-data that patience was your greatest 
strength. Before | entered this room, | checked up with the 
receptionist, how many times you called her up to ascertain when 
| would come. | was told you were very calm and did not check up 
even once. You are selected’. 


XXXXXXXXXKXKXKXXKXKXKXKXAXKKK XK KK KKK KK KK KK KK KKK KK KKK KKK KK KKK KK KK KK AK K KK 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION - Part -33 


By Dr.E.S.Neelakantan 


We proceed with our analysis on the Ashtakavarga of Venus in 
this edition of students section. In our previous article we 
discussed certain qualities of an astrologer such as patience, 
perseverance and ability to comprehend fuzzy logic, which 
would enable them to interpret charts correctly. 


When Venus is in debilitation or is combust, has no benefic 
aspect and the lord of the 7" is hemmed between malefics , the 
person will have three wives. 


The above verse needs to be understood carefully. Instead of 
7" house let us say the author is explaining a verse with 
reference to the 2 house and its karaka. If the 2" house has a 
similar affliction, he would say the person will have no wealth. 
Since Venus is afflicted and so is the 7" house, the author 
should have said , the person will be a bachelor; instead he has 
given the possibility of the other extreme , a person with three 
wives : in other words the chart holder is blessed with 
Tribharya yoga. 


The irony is that the chart holder, mentioned above is bereft of 
marital happiness. He has chosen to marry several times hoping 


that the next girl would prove better than the earlier one and 
ending up disappointed each time. The important principle we 
need to know here is :- An afflicted Venus and an equally 
afflicted 7™ lord would lead to remarriage, not denial of 
marriage. 


Take the converse of the above rule ; Venus exalted, aspected 
by benefics and lord of the 7" hemmed between benefics, one 
will have very good married life. The chart holder would be 
blessed with a wife who is both dutiful as well as beautiful. 


as 7 . d hence 
When the 7" lord is in 9, a malefic occupies 2" and Venus is in 
a common sign , one will have two wives. 


Please note that the subtle difference between the earlier rule 
and this one . Here Venus is in a common sign , while the earlier 
rule says Venus is in Virgo, Gemini , Pisces , and Sagittarius. 
Venus is afflicted in Virgo . To some extent Venus in Sagittarius 
is also not good . But in Pisces and Gemini, Venus is good. 
Hence in this rule Venus is better placed than in the earlier rule 
- if it is ina common sign other than Virgo. 


In this rule , we have the 7 lord in the 9 which is good, unlike 
the earlier rule which stipulates that 7th lord should be 
between malefics. The negative feature of this rule is that the 
2" house should have a malefic. 


This rule is otherwise termed as Dwibarya yoga. 


This rule drives home the point that in persons with 
combinations for multiple marriages, common signs become 
prominent. Venus as Kalatra Karaka in a dual sign predisposes 
a person towards remarriage. The other point, we need to 
understand is that a malefic in 2 can spoil marital happiness. 


The principle we need to know is this: The greater the affliction 
to Venus and the 7" lord , the more number of times, a 
person will get married. 


Denial of marriage is indicated when the 7™ lord is incapable of 
conferring marriage upon a native or if there are other factors 
in the chart which lead to denial of marriage , such as affliction 
to the 12" house , presence of Saturn in the rh ,s0 On and so 
forth. 


The number of wives will be equal to the number of planets in 2 
and 7, when the 2™ house is occupied by the malefic. 


By enumerating the number of planets in 2 and 7, one can 
predict the number of wives a person will have. 


For astrologers who specialise in horoscope matching, these 
rules are very significant. Special attention should be paid to 
Venus , the 2" house and 7" house in a male chart , While in a 
female chart , houses 4,8 and 9 are also important. 


Here is an anecdote : A divorcee went to consult an astrologer 
about prospects of getting remarried. The astrologer predicted 


that the native would remarry and that marriage would give 
happiness. The divorcee’s mother asked the astrologer : How 
did you conclude that this chart shows Dwibharya Yoga ? “ The 
astrologer replied”, By verification , | understood that Tribharya 
Yoga is absent ; hence | inferred the presence of Dwibharya 
Yoga”. The anecdote explains the rationale behind Dwibharya 
Yoga. lf the chart is heavily afflicted, it would lead to Tribharya 
Yoga; medium range of affliction leads to Dwibharya Yoga. 


Please note that in practice, one may not come across the exact 
textbook rule; in many cases we find the variants of the above 
rules appearing in the chart. 


All the rules we discussed above pertain to adversities in life. 
This raises certain philosophical issues. While facing difficulties 
in life, what should we do? Accept fate as final, or pray God for 
mitigation of hardship? In this context | would like to narrate a 
story, which | read recently, which is both interesting as well as 
thought provoking. 


Once there was a sweeper in a well known temple who was 
sincere in his job and devoted to God. Once he had a thought :- 
The Lord is standing all the time and giving darshan and He 
must be feeling very tired. So one day innocently he asked the 
Lord whether he can take the place of the Lord for a day so that 
the Lord can have some rest. 


The deity of the temple replied, “I do not mind taking a break. | 
will transform you like Myself, but you must do one thing ; You 
must just stand here like Me , smile at everyone and just give 
benedictions. Do not interfere with anything and do not say 
anything. Remember you are the deity and you must have faith 
in the Sovereign Truth that | have a master plan for everything.” 
The sweeper agreed to this proposal. 


The next day the sweeper took the position of the deity .First a 
rich man came and prayed to the Lord. He offered a big 
donation and prayed that his business should do well . While 
going, the rich man inadvertently left his wallet there. Now the 
sweeper in the form of deity could not call him and so he 
decided to keep quiet. 


Just then a poor man came and he put one coin in the Hundi 
and said that it was all he could afford and he prayed to the 
Lord that he should continue to be engaged in Lord’s service. 
He also said that his family was in dire need of some basic 
needs but he left that to the Lord for a possible solution. 

When he opened his eyes, he saw the wallet left by the rich 
man. The poor man thanked the Lord for His kindness and took 
the wallet away. The sweeper in the form of the Deity could not 
say anything and he had to just keep smiling. 


At that point a sailor walked in. He prayed for his safe journey 
as he was going on a long trip. Just then the rich man came with 


the police and said that somebody has stolen his wallet and 
seeing the sailor there, he asked the police to arrest him 
thinking that he might have taken it. 


Now the sweeper in the form of Deity wanted to say that the 
sailor was not the thief but he could not say so and hence got 
frustrated. The sailor looked at the Lord and asked why he, an 
innocent person, is being punished whereas the rich man 
thanked God for finding the thief. 


The sweeper in the Deity form could no more tolerate and he 
thought that even if the real Lord had been here, he would 
have definitely interfered and therefore started speaking and 
said that the sailor was not the thief but it was poor man who 
had taken the wallet away. The rich man was very thankful as 
also the sailor. 


At night, the Lord came and asked the sweeper how the day 
was. The sweeper said, “I thought it would be easy, but now | 
know that your job is not easy” .| did one good thing today 
and gave an account of the day’s proceedings to the Lord. The 
Lord got upset on hearing this whereas the sweeper had 
expected appreciation from Him for his noble gesture.The Lord 
asked, “Why did you not just stick to the plan? You had no faith 
in me. Do you think that | do not understand the mind of all 
those who come here? The donation which the rich man gave 
was all stolen money and it is only a fraction of what he really 


had and he wants me to reciprocate his gesture without any 
limit. The coin offered by the poor man was the last coin he had 
and he gave it out of faith. The sailor has not done anything 
wrong, but if he were to go in the ship that night he would die 
when the ship sinks in the High Seas due to a cyclonic storm. 
Had the sailor been arrested he would be in jail and would be 
saved from an impending disaster. Had the wallet gone to the 
poor man he would have used it for a noble cause. | intended to 
reduce the rich man’s karma by depriving him of the money in 
the wallet .Simultaneously | would have saved the sailor’ life. 
Mine was a three-in-one plan: To mitigate the rich man’s 
karma,to reward the poor man and save the sailor.But you 
undid everything because you thought you were wiser than me. 


The moral of the story is simple: God’s Will is supreme and no 
human being can really comprehend the mind of God. As the 
saying goes,” Inscrutable are the ways of destiny” 


2K 2K 2K OK OK KK KK RK OK KKK KK KKK KKK KK KK KK KKK KKK KKK KKK KK KKKKK 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION (PART -34) 


By Dr.E.S.Neelakantan 


At the outset let me wish all readers of EST, A Very Happy and 
Prosperous New Year 2013. May Almighty bless us all with 
health, happiness and prosperity this year. 


Before | start the discussion , | wish to narrate a small 
anecdote, which makes lot of sense in the trying times we are 
living in today. A Westener went on an expedition to Africa , 
where he came across an aboriginal in Kalahari desert. There 
was a Shallow stream in the desert and the aboriginal was 
trying to catch fish. As the westerner was observing,he threw 
the net and caught a large number of fish but what he did next 
was astonishing . He took a few of them, which he intended to 
cook and eat but let the remaining ones back into the waters , 
alive. The Westerner asked the aboriginal , why he decided to 
leave the fish back into the waters,which no fisherman does,in 
general. The aboriginal gave a reply, which contains lots of 
lessons for all of us. 


“Firstly, | need only a few fish for my lunch. So | took them. 
The remaining ones | can keep for tomorrow, but our problem 
is here we do not have refrigerator or cold storage facilities. So 
| don’t see any pleasure in killing them. So the second point | 


wish to make is that | wanted them to live . | left them back to 
see that they resume their lives. Thirdly , if | catch all the fish 
out there , what will my children and grandchildren do?” . The 
Westerner was left wondering whether he was wise and 
civilized or whether the aboriginal knew the laws of Nature 
better. Our problems can be summed up in one sentence:- 
Over-exploitation of Nature and wastage of existing 
resources. |f only we decided to follow the message of the 
aboriginal in Kalahari desert , the world will become an oasis of 
prosperity , in no time.This also has a message for us who wish 
to master Astrology./f you understood the spirit of Astrology 
you would realise that you are here not to conquer Nature but 
to live in harmony with it. With these introductory remarks let 
us proceed to discuss the Ashtakavarga features of Venus. 


When Venus is debilitated or is combust and is bereft of 
benefic aspect , one will have three wives provided the he 
house is hemmed between malefics 


When (a) Venus is ina common sign 
(b) Lord of 7“ house is in 9 and 


(c) a malefic occupies the 2°" house , one will have two 
wives . Please note that all these three conditions , should be 
cumulatively satisfied. 


The number of wives will be as many as the number of 
planets in the 7” or the 2 houses , subject to the condition 
that a malefic occupies 2" house. 


The rationale behind these rules were extensively discussed in 
our previous article. Nevertheless | wish to offer my comments 
here to reiterate the point. 


Polygamy arises when there are afflictions to 2,7 and 
Venus. 2™ house rules over family, 7" house rules over spouse 
and Venus is karaka of spouse. When 2™" house is afflicted , 
wealth will be scarce. When 7 house is afflicted , Wives will be 
found aplenty! Herein lies a paradox. 


Take the case of a person who has Jupiter in the 7". It will 
confer good marriage upon the chart holder and that person 
will marry only once. | wish to cite an example here. A few 
years back , a marriage reception was held in Chennai. People 
go to attend a marriage reception not only to bless the couple 
but also have their dinner there. In other words, it is an “official 
holiday” for their kitchen. But in the reception | mentioned just 
now , the menu was shockingly poor, which the disgruntled 
guests realized only when the buffet counters opened. There 
were only a few items and quite insufficient to beat the 
appetite. Generally having a frugal dinner can cause problems, 
because if you feel hungry in the early hours of the morning , 
there will be no food available in the house to eat. What many 


of the invitees grudgingly did that day was to go home, cook 
food and have a meaningful dinner at night. The ‘official 
holiday” for the kitchen got converted into a working day and 
even got extended into late working hours! 


Jupiter in the his gives a Satisfying married life and so a person 
prefers monogamy. Like the invitees for the reception who had 
to go home for a second dinner, a dissatisfied person prefers a 
second marriage. 


Now we will discuss a couple of rules which deal with 
marriage by use of force. 


1) When the 7™ house is a house of Saturn or Mars, Venus is 
aspected by Mars and malefics occupy the 2”? house , marriage 
will be by use of force. 

2) When the navamsa sign-despositor of Moon is between the lords 
of lagna and 7 and also aspects its own house , marriage will be 
use of force. 


To understand the concept of “ Use of Force “in marriage we 
need to understand the types of marriages recognized in 
scriptures. In ancient India eight forms of marriage existed , of 
which Rakshasa Vivaha or forcible abduction of a girl is one 
category. We will now discuss briefly the different types of 
marriage and what each one is all about. 


. Rakshasa vivaha: Marriage by forcible abduction of a girl; forbidden 
generally, but permitted for kings. 


. Parisacha vivaha: Marriage through deceitful abduction of a girl in sleep; 
forbidden in general, kings excepted. 


. Asura vivaha: Marriage through purchasing a girl by a man. Some smriti-s 
discourage this practice, since it tantamounts to selling of a child. 


. Arsa vivaha: Marriage involves a gift of a bull and a cow; an accepted 
form. 


. Daiva vivaha: The girl has no choice in selecting the man; choice remains 
with the girl’s father or guardian. 


. Prajapatya vivaha: Girl's father gives away the girl to a man, who seeks 
her hand, so that both of them are eligible to perform their duties together. 


. Gandharva vivaha: The marriage between a willing girl and her lover, 
(e.g., Dushyanta and Sakuntala. Sage Kanva, Sakuntala’s father, 
endorsed this marriage since Dushyanta was supposed to have relied on 
his conscience). 


. Brahma vivaha: Marriage involving giving the bride to a boy by circling the 
sacred fire three times. 


Rakshasa Vivaha is permitted for Kshatriyas and forbidden for the 


remaining three Varnas. If we read Mahabharata the marriages 


described therein such as the weddings of Rukmini , Amba , Ambika , 


Ambalika and Subhadra come somewhere midway between 
Rakshasa and Gandharva vivahas. 


Mars denotes the fire element and Saturn denotes air element. We 
have heard the saying, “Adding fuel to the fire”,“Fanning the flames”, 
so on and so forth. When Saturn influences Mars, the fire element is 
roused and it becomes powerful in a negative way. 


If we look at the first rule, it involves location of the 7" house in 
the houses of either Saturn or Mars. The second condition is Martian 
aspect on Venus. The third condition is presence of a malefic in the 
second house. Thus, this rule involves malefic ownership of seventh, 
malefic placement in second and malefic aspect in Venus-all at the 
same time, literally “adding fuel to the fire”. 


The second rule portrays a rule which connects the navamsa sign 
dispositor of Moon with seventh house indications. Here again , 
Moon rules over mind and the navamsa chart rules over marriage. 
Generally Moon rules over the mind and all ‘love” marriages could 
be said to have originated from Moon’s placement. As such, Moon’s 
sign dispositior in navamsa is a strong indicator of the “Rakshasa” 
form of marriage. 


Please note that these rules merely indicate “use of force” in 
marriage. It is silent on whether use of force is attributable to the 
groom or to the bride. My view is that if this combination exists in 
the chart, that person could either be a perpetrator or a victim with 
reference to use of force in marriage. 


OK 2K 8 ROK OK ROK 2 OK OK OK OK OK ROK OR OK OR KK OK OK KK RK OB OK OB OK OK OK KR KK KKK KK KK KK KKK KKK 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION (Part -35) 


By Dr.E.S.Neelakantan 


In our previous edition, we discussed the Ashtakavarga features of 
Venus with emphasis on marriage by use of force. Since Venus is 
Kalatrakaraka, our discussion was mainly centered on marriage. In this 
article, we will have a look at Venus from various angles to understand 
its impact on life. 


When the lord of the house occupied by the lord of the 7°” is in the 6" 
or 8" from the 7" house and if that planet is in debilitation in an 
inimical house or is combust, there is no possibility of an issue. 


Here the discussion centers around the sign dispositor of the 7" lord. If 
that planet is in the 12" or 2™ house from lagna and has afflictions such 
as combustion or enemy house placement or debilitation, there will not 
be birth of children. 


All along we have understood only the 5"" house as ruling over 
progeny. But here look at the connection between 7" house and 
progeny and that too an indirect one. 7" house rules over fecundity. In 
one sense, all houses in a chart are interconnected and one cannot 
predict without judging a chart in a holistic way. 


Here is an anecdote which shows the connection between marriage 
and progeny in a lighter vein . A junior officer who was conducting a 
census asked a person, Are you married? The answer was “No”. He 
then proceeded to ask the question “How many children do you 
have?”. The man got angry and asked the questioner to get out. The 


senior officer in charge of the census asked this person to be more 
prudent in future. He said, first complete the query relating to children 
first and then ascertain marital status. The Junior officer took this 
advice seriously and decided to be more careful in future. Next time he 
asked a person, “Sir, How many children do you have?” The reply was, 
“| have three kids”. The Junior officer’s next question was, “Are you 
married?” 


Once a client went to meet an astrologer. Very often we find that 
people who go to an astrologer for consultation are themselves very 
knowledgeable. This gentlemen knew the basics well but wanted to 
meet the astrologer to gain more clarity about the Vimsottari period in 
Operation. The client knew that Saturn dasha was a Maraka and 
therefore he may not live to see Mercury dasha. His only aim was to 
understand how bad Saturn was going to be in its dasha. The moment 
he showed his chart to the astrologer , the latter remarked, Mercury is 
very well placed in your chart. So Mercury dasha is going to give 
excellent results”.” The client remarked, “Sir, | know pretty well 
Mercury is going to give excellent results. | just want to know whether | 
will be alive to see Mercury dasha.” Interestingly enough and sad to say 
, this gentleman was one of the victims of the fire accident in the 
marriage hall in Kumbakonam , which really shocked the entire country 
, a few years ago- he was not only running Saturn dasha but was also 
under the grip of Sade Sathi when the tragedy occurred. 


When Jupiter in transit passes through the trine houses of Venus or the 
lord of the 7", marriage takes place. The above verse shows a possible 
event but it is not the only possibility. When Jupiter occupies a trinal 
house to Venus, it aspects the Venus. Jupiter denotes divine grace , 
Venus denotes spouse. One is ‘blessed” to get married when Jupiter 


aspects Venus. Many people ask me this question ; ‘Is marriage a 
blessing or a curse?” | think every individual will have a different 
answer. My view is if you take these astrological views into 
consideration and plan your marriage at an auspicious time, it will 
certainly be a blessing. 


Many girls tell their parents : | must first finish my studies , get a 
decent job, start getting decent income —only then | will get married. 
These days stability in marriage is not something you can guarantee 
and a working woman is better than a housewife , if marriage were to 
fail. But astrologers need to think in different lines. Let us say , Jupiter is 
in the second from natal Moon in transit. If Jupiter were to move to the 
third , then the girl will not have a “good Jupiter” in transit for two 
years — while in 3 and 4. So it is better if marriage is conducted if 
Jupiter is in 2 in Gochara. The rule | quoted above will also be useful to 
parents of prospective brides and grooms. When Jupiter aspects the 
kalatrakaraka Venus , it is an auspicious time for marriage. Going with 
the planetary positions is like swimming with the current. 


Marriage of persons born in Uttarayana takes place when the Sun 
comes to the navamsa Rasi of Jupiter or its trines and Sun is aspected 
by Jupiter. For those born in Dakshinayana, the Sun should come to the 
navamsa rasi of Venus or its trines and should be aspected by Jupiter. 


| have not personally tested these rules but | would advise readers to 
check the veracity of these rules in charts taken up as case studies. 
Aristotle once said, “Women have fewer teeth than Men.” Commenting 
on this statement , Bertrand Russell wrote in “The Impact of Science on 
Society” (which was published in 1952) : “Instead of proclaiming a rule 
such as this one , Aristotle could have asked his wife (or rather wives, as 


Aristotle was married twice ) to keep her mouth open, while he 
counted”. We come across several rules in astrology, but now many of 
us, apply these rules in charts to verify how they operate in practice? 


Marriage may take place when Sun is in the navamsa rasi of lagna lord 
aspected by Jupiter. 


The possible time of marriage is indicated by the author through these 
rules. Sun is “Atmakaraka” or ruler of self. Jupiter , Venus, Sun and the 
lagna lord are key indicators of marriage. The seventh house and its 
lord are main significators of marriage. Judgment of time of marriage 
involves careful perusal of all these indicators. 


The power of an individual chart can be increased by bringing it in 
association with another chart through alliance, marriage or 
partnership. | will give an example to prove this point. Take the case of 
a person who adds honey to milk and consumes it. Milk is Kapha — 
producing while honey is anti -kapha (or rather anti-phelgm). The 
problem with honey is that while decreasing phlegm it can aggravate 
the wind element. Milk when consumed alone can promote phlegm 
thereby making a person disease prone. So addition of honey to milk is 
ideal for health since the defects attributable to their individual 
qualities are neutralized by each other 


Likewise a boy may have reckless spending habits while a girl might be 
frugal. If they happen to get married , the economic condition at home , 
would be beneficial to the family. The weakness in a boy’s chart must 
be offset by the strength of the girl’s chart and vice versa. An ideal 
marriage takes place when the boy and the girl have redeeming 
features with reference to each other;their chart should be 
complementary to each other 


| know a case where a marriage took place with both the boy and the 
girl being software engineers. Both of them were good looking, had 
good jobs, had high income and came from decent families. For a while 
it seemed that both were on cloud nine. Then the usual problems 
cropped up, got aggravated and finally the marriage ended in a divorce. 
The problem here is that both the boy and the girl were egoistic. They 
stuck to their points of view and expected nothing short of 
subservience from the other partner.The weaknesses in the boy’s chart 
were not neutralized by the girl and vice versa. Mutual love, Mutual 
trust and Mutual understanding are the golden keys to success in any 
marriage. 


Even if | were to write this article , a thousand years later , | might 
reiterate the same views. The astrologer’s role is to figure out whether 
the couple would have this kind of understanding by studying the chart. 
Analyzing extraneous factors is not going to improve the quality of 
married life. 


With these words, | draw this article to a close. This sums up our 
discussion on Venus. | appeal to our readers to study these rules 
carefully so that they could advise their clients and friends in a better 
way so as to improve the standard of married life and the happiness, 
the couple obtain from it. In our next article , we will commence our 
discussion on Saturn and its role in Ashtakavarga. 


To be continued 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION — PART 36 
By Dr.E.S.Neelakantan 


This marks our entry into our discussion on Saturn’s role in Ashtakavarga. In one of our earlier articles I 
had argued in favour of Saturn as a benefic and Jupiter as a malefic literally donning the role of “a devil’s 
advocate”. When we look at the functional role of a planet, we need to temporarily ignore its natural role. 
In certain horoscopes Saturn does its role of a functional benefic whereas in some, we find Jupiter 
donning the role of a functional malefic. From this edition onwards, we will look at Saturn from all 
possible angles and try to understand its role from an Ashtakavarga standpoint. 


When Saturn is well placed in an individual’s chart, that person will be systematic in work. They are 
logical, speak precisely and are philosophical in outlook. They are generally hardworking and have the 
full support of their subordinates. 


Saturn, ill placed gives room for enmity and ill will and will suffer from imaginary problems. They tend 
to have chronic diseases and are full of worries and anxieties. They are lazy, miserly and they do not keep 
up their words or promises. So the dictum is: Never trust a person who has a bad Saturn in birth chart. 


Good Saturn bestows self confidence while bad Saturn bestows arrogance. Good Saturn makes one 
interested in metaphysics and paranormal studies, while bad Saturn makes one interested in remedial 
measures and Tantric rituals. 


Bad Saturn gives one the company of people in the low strata of society while the good Saturn gives one 
the company of academicians and intellectuals. 


When Saturn crosses the constellation Rohini, it causes the “Rohini Sakata Yoga” or “Rohini Shakat 
Bhedan Yoga”. This gives rise to famine and other calamities. Once, when king Dasaratha of the 
Ikshvaku dynasty was ruling, Saturn entered the Rohini star. In praise of Saturn, King Dasaratha 
composed a hymn which is popularly known as “ Dasaratha stothram’”. One who reads this hymn daily 
will not only be able to overcome Saturn’s evil effects but will also be blessed with good fortune through 
the grace of Saturn. While this may be a mythological story and a “Puranic bait” to turn evil doers into 
good ways, the fact remains that the words of the rishis have the power to come true always and 
anyone who wishes to prosper in life is better advised to chant this hymn and augment their prosperity. 


Diseases such as dental problems, tuberculosis, jaundice, migraine, hypochondria, arthritis and cramps 
come under the purview of Saturn. Herein lies the importance of medical astrology. If a good astrologer 
can figure out which planet is the cause for the particular disease that information will prove useful to a 
physician for diagnosis and treatment. 


The following occupations come under Saturn’s purview. 
1. Footwear business : 


All leather items come under Saturn’s purview. Even purses, bags and other leather goods are 
governed by Saturn. 


2. Oil business 


Dy NBO 


10. 
11. 


Iron and steel business 

Carpentry and manufacture of furniture 

Legal profession 

Coffee and tea 

Since all addictive drinks are governed by Saturn, both manufacture of coffee and tea or supply of 
such drinks are under Saturn‘s purview. 

Woolen garments, blankets, carpets: 

Manufacture of the above products comes under Saturn’s purview. 
Real Estate Broking. 

Agriculture 

Coal Business 

Mining. 


Saturn denotes all forms of service. Cobblers, potters, gardeners, washermen, hair dressers , 
plumbers, masons, painters, sweepers, coolies, shepherds , Tonga drivers, conductors-all come 
under the jurisdiction of Saturn. 


Earlier we discussed the differences between good Saturn and bad Saturn. Take the case of a 
hairdresser. You can see them in road side shops or inside a five star hotel. Basically a hairdresser 
is a hairdresser-they come under the purview of Saturn. If Saturn is good you would end up ina 
luxury hotel; otherwise you would be in a roadside shop. That is the only difference. 


When I was in college, an English professor asked us a question: “What is the difference between 
an addict and a drunkard?” A person who takes excessive alcohol is an addict or a drunkard. But 
most of us were not sure why two words exist in dictionary and used in different contexts also. 
One boy suggested:” Sir, If a man quietly drinks inside his house, he is an addict; if he goes to 
pubs and creates problems there, he is a drunkard”. Our professor smiled and didn‘t say “Yes” or 
“No”. Finally we all gave up and asked the professor the meaning of the two words. He said,” The 
difference is quiet simple. It just relates to where you are placed in the society. If a rich man 
drinks, he is an addict; if a poor man drinks, he is drunkard”. All aristocrats go to pubs, drink and 
call themselves addicts. Poor people, workers and lower strata of society go to the roadside shops, 
drink and they are called drunkards. 


If Saturn is in Libra, the person under Saturn’s influence will do the same bad things but in a 
dignified way and he will get social acceptance. If what he does is done by a person who is under 
Saturn's influence while in Aries, he will be condemned by society. 


When Saturn in his Ashtakavarga transits a house which has zero to eight bindus, the results are 
as follows: 


One becomes the head of a village or town 

One gets female slaves, camels and other animals 
One gains respect from the leaders of thieves 
One gets bountiful agricultural produce 


nanan eo 


Moderate happiness 

Loss of wealth 

Imprisonment, sickness, anxiety , poverty stricken 
Sickness 
Loss of everything ,death 


(To be continued 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION — PART 37 
By Dr.E.S.Neelakantan 


We commenced our discussion on the role of Saturn in our previous article and in 
this we will continue our discussion on Saturn. 


We find people criticizing God for their plight or difficulties in life which every 
individual has to surmount. At the beginning of creation only God existed but He 
wished to create a universe with multiple beings. Since raw material is required for 
creation and there was none but God, who existed, He himself became the created 
beings. In other words, the Creator became two — the Creator and the created. 


To administer the universe, some rules and regulations are required, so he devised 
the “Law of Karma’. From that moment onwards, God retired and what functions 
is only the Law of Karma. The Law of Karma operates through the planetary 
cabinet which comprises of the nine planets. Saturn could be said to be the “Home 
Minister ”, since he punishes people for their crime. 


Before we understand the concept called “Law of Karma’, let us know what a “self 
balancing ledger” means. In olden times, when transactions were voluminous in 
large business houses, they used to keep three ledgers, viz., Debtor’s ledger, 
Creditor’s ledger and the main ledger. When the size of the ledger became hefty, it 
created a problem in detection of errors. With multiple ledgers, each becomes a 
separate entity and detection of errors becomes somewhat easy. Please note that 
these concepts are now redundant as no accountant who works today knows how to 
tally an account — all work is done by the computer.Law of Karma operates like a 
Self balancing ledger. If an error is there, the ledger would show itself out. If a sin 
is committed, the punishment is meted out by the Law of Karma. God has no role 
here. Further, if God played the role of a judge He could be accused of partiality. 
Once the job is delegated to a faithful executive, there is no possibility of a mistake 
on his part. The Law of Karma in turn operates through Saturn, for inflicting 
punishment. A person gets rewarded through Jupiter, Venus or Mercury. Saturn is 
an impartial executive. People are rewarded or punished for their own thoughts, 
words or actions — there is no role for a third party in this scheme of things. 


When we tune ourselves to Advaita Philosophy, we know that there is only one 
entity which performs multiple roles. So everything boils down to a divine drama, 
a cosmic illusion or a theatre of the absurd. If you go to United States, you have to 
first complete M.S before you enroll for Ph.D. Likewise, to you need to understand 
Astrology in toto before you are eligible to know Advaita. Please note that it does 
not work the other way around. What I mean is, if you are already established in 
non — dual consciousness there is no need for you to learn anything, leave alone 
Astrology. This is why some books such as the Avadhoota Gita say that there is no 
need for any spiritual sadhana — at this moment you are perfect, everything is 
perfect, there is no need for you to bother about anything or crave for any change — 
you just have to be what you are to really know who you are. 


Scientists support the theory of evolution while religious groups support the theory 
of creation. Religions say that God created Man, Universe and all that goes with 
that, while Darwin’s theory is that all living beings evolved over a period of 

time. However, what Indian philosophy says is that the whole thing is a process of 
devolution. As Brahman, you are perfect. You devolve to the status of Man and 
everything appears imperfect. You strive for perfection and reach it at the end, 
which is the point of Mukti as the final goal of every human being. Bhagwan 
Ramana Maharishi uses a classic example to drive home this point : A Man 
walking in the hot sun seeks the shade of a tree. Once his relaxation period is over, 
he resumes his journey. This process continues. Compare this with the ever — 
perfect Brahman striving to be born and the imperfect Man striving for 
Brahmanhood. 


The evil influence of Saturn finds mention in some of our Puranic tales. It is said 
that Saturn is responsible for Ravana’s downfall. When Ravana had gained control 
over the nine planets, he installed them with downward — looking faces as the nine 
steps for ascending his throne. One day, sage Narada, who is known to create petty 
quarrels for fulfillment of lofty aims met Ravana and said that a great king like 
Ravana should not place his foot on the Saturn’s back — rather he should place 
them on his chest and have the pleasure of seeing Saturn’s indignation. Ravana 
was truly flattered and he happily implemented the suggestion. As a result, 
Saturn’s evil gaze fell on Ravana and soon, he met with his doom. It is believed 
that Ravana’s end came while he was running the Sade Sathi of Saturn. 


When Indrajit was about to be born, Ravana had forced all the planets to occupy 
the 11™ house. By quirk of fate, Saturn, at the time of Indrajit’s birth moved into 
his 12" house, thus causing his downfall. Ravana’s aim was to make Indrajit 
invincible and Saturn foiled his strategy. 


A few thoughts about the 11" house:- 


e The 11 house is the house of gain. In the natural Zodiac, it is a kama 
house indicating acquisition of luxuries. 

e Being 12" to 12™ house, it shows the end of expenditure, thereby acting 
as the guardian of wealth. 

e “The enemy of your enemy is your friend” — so goes the adage. As the 6" 
to the 6" house, it indicates the enemy’s enemy. 

e 11" house denotes recovery of lost things. For kings it denotes recovery 
of the lost kingdom. 

e The 11" house is the only house where any planet could yield beneficial 
results — whether it be a benefic or a malefic. It is also Upachaya house 
and planets in this house gain strength and yield progressively good 
results as one grows in age. 

e Usually trouble from enemies is indicated when the 6" Lord’s dasha is in 
progress. Such enemies will be defeated by their enemies if lord of 11" 
house is stronger than lord of 6" house. 


All said and done, Ravana was the king of demons and asuras. Asuras are 
evolved spiritual beings, but are jealous and selfish. They have tamasic traits. 
An asura has a tamasic intellect while devas have a sattwic intellect. Asuras 
can achieve great things but still they cannot be trusted with authority. 
Ravana was a great devotee of Lord Shiva but the quality of lust manifested 
in him, creating unwanted desire in him to posses Sita, and finally it was lust 
which led to his downfall. 


The Shani Mahatmya declares :- Saturn, who rules both longevity and prosperity, 
can turn even a king into a pauper and vice versa. When Saturn is happy he causes 
good fortune to enter your life, and when angry he destroys everything. He controls 
everyone's destiny. No one can escape Saturn's reach, no matter where he or she 


might be in the world. No planet except Saturn can give you both long life and 
abundance. Saturn has that ability to change your destiny and is the force that 
makes you experience your karmas whether you like them or not. In Sanskrit it is 
said svabhavo vijayati iti shauryam — True heroism is to conquest of your (base) 
nature. Until you have completely conquered your lower self, Saturn can still 
affect you. Saturn will search out for the weakness in your personality and will 
expose them to full view, making you experience your limitations by making you 
egocentric and forcing you to identify yourself with those limitations. As long as 
you are unable to control your base nature, you are at Saturn's mercy. If you can 
completely conquer your Lower self Saturn can have no effect on you. But it is not 
so easy to control those instincts and so long as it not controlled you will be 
subjected to Saturn and his effects. 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF 
PREDICTION PART -38 


Dr.E.S.NEELAKANTAN 


In our previous article we saw a few aspects of Indian 
philosophy and recounted puranic tales of Saturn . We move on 
to discuss more details about Saturn in this article. 


Let us see how Saturn functions in the twelve zodiacal signs. 


Aries: A person born with Saturn in Aries is wrathful, does evil 
deeds and is devoid of any virtue. 

Taurus: The person suffers due to his wickedness and 
foolishness. Servility is the key characteristic of this 
person. 

Gemini: The person spends his time travelling; lives away from 
native place and is secretive,deceitful, angry, mean and 
lustful. 

Cancer: The behaviour of this person is full of 
contradictions;childhood is full of struggles; lacks maternal 
love; suffers from ill-health. 

Leo: The person is committed to study, research and writing; 
enjoys conjugal happiness; begets wealth and honour from 
spouse’s family. 

Virgo: The person bears a lean body; reticent, affluent but 
discontented; ambitious and arrogant. 


Libra:This person is poised favourably for material prosperity; 
has a strong inclination for worldly and sensual pleasures; 
acquires name and fame. 

Scorpio: The person likes to misappropriate wealth of others; 
performs mean acts; life is full of hurdles; cruel, wrathful, 
avaricious and arrogant. 

Sagittarius: The person is soft spoken, reticent, given to 
scholarly pursuits and well versed in various disciplines. 

Capricorn: The person is fond of good places and ornaments; 
begets wealth, extremely industrious and has sound 
knowledge of arts. 

Aquarius: The person is crooked, lethargic, deceitful and 
unethical. Although Aquarius is a house owned by Saturn, 
its presence in Aquarius is not desirable; companions will 
also be mischievous. 

Pisces: The person is wealthy and becomes eminent in his 
family and among his relatives; ethical, crafty and is a 
connoisseur of gems. 


We know that Saturn in Aries is debilitated. When Saturn 
is about to transit Aries, do we infer that everyone who is born 
while Saturn is in Aries would be devoid of virtues? No, not 
necessarily. 


Please note that in Aries, Saturn lacks 
Sthanabala(residential strength). However if Saturn in Aries 
attains Libra in navamsa, then Saturn will give the effects of an 
exalted planet. Same is also true while Saturn is in retrograde. If 
Saturn in Aries gets aspected by Jupiter, much of Saturn’s evil 


qualities are arrested and Saturn yields auspicious results. Same 
is true when Mars conjoins Saturn in Aries and gives rise to 
Neechabhanga raja yoga. 


Saturn in Lagna is generally considered an unwelcome 
feature of any horoscope. However Saturn in Libra, Sagittarius 
and Pisces is considered a blessing and the person would 
prosper similar to a king. 


There is a perception that , of the nine planets , Ketu alone is 
Moksha karaka . Ketu in the 12" is considered an indication of 
Moksha in this birth itself. According to Maharishi Jamini , Ketu 
in the 12" from karakamsa leads to moksha if the said planet is 
placed in Aries or Sagittarius (Jamini sutras , Ch 1,sutra 70) . 
Same is the case if Atmakaraka is located in Pisces (Ibid,ch 
1,sutra no.13) or if a benefic occupies karakamsa(Ibid ,ch1 , 
sutra 69). According to Maharishi Parasara , mere placement 
of Ketu in 12" is inadequate; it should come under benefic 
aspect or conjunction to bestow the above result. 


Moksha is bestowed under the following conditions: 


1) Sun in conjunction with Jupiter. 

2) Weakness of the 7 house and 7" lord. 

3) Weakness of the 10™ house and 10" lord. 

4) Strong 5“ house and 5" lord; Strong 9" house and 9" lord. 


With due respects to Rishis, it must be said that Ketu alone 
is not the determinant of Moksha though most authors and 
textbooks take the beaten track. What causes Moksha? 
Detachment. Which planet causes detachment ? Saturn. 


Why? Because it is the giver of grief. Grief leads to 
detachment. 


You go to a hotel for having your lunch and the food is 
excellent. Will you give credit to the waiter or to the cook? 
Naturally to the cook, who prepared the dishes rather than 
the waiter who merely serves it. You may give a tip to the 
waiter but it is the cook who merits your appreciation. 


Likewise it is Saturn who prepares you for Moksha; Ketu like 
the waiter, serves Moksha to you, by being in the 12", but it is 
Saturn, who deserves your appreciation You, think of Moksha, 
while you are unhappy not when you are happy. . Sai Baba 
writes in Geeta Vahini that Misery is a real friend and not 
happiness. 


According to Sai Baba “ Misery is a real friend; happiness spends 
out the stock of merit and arouses the baser passions. So it is 
really an enemy. Really, misery is an eye-opener; it promotes 
thought and the task of self-improvement. It also endows one 
with new and valuable experiences. Happiness draws a veil over 
experiences that harden a person and make him tough. So, 
troubles and travails are to be treated as friends; at least, not as 


enemies. Only, it is best to regard both happiness and misery as 
gifts of God. That is the easiest path for one's own 
liberation." (Geeta Vahini,Chapter 4) 


When you go to a bank to place your valuables , you take 
the locker key with you. When you go to open the locker , 
the manager in charge of the locker will put his key and only 
when both the keys are inserted simultaneously , the locker 
will open. Likewise human effort and divine grace are the 
two keys which when operated together open the door to 
moksha. Please note that just as the bank’s key is not 
available to you, the key to divine grace is usually invisible. 
But once you take effort, you have inserted your “key” and 
the action of the divine is automatic - you will see the door 
open on its own. You need to do only your portion of the 
job. 


Once | was present when a person was consulting a 
learned astrologer . The query raised was “Sir, will | gain 
Moksha in this present birth” The astrologer replied , “ 
There two ways to gain Moksha- attachment to God and 
detachment to the world. In your chart , there is no 
possibility of your leading a detached life. | would say you 
will attain Moksha, through attachment to God.” 


In accounting ledgers, they keep one account for every 
creditor. If you buy goods, the account will show what is the 
sum you owe the creditor. If you overpay, the account will 
show what the creditor owes you. If the correct account is 
paid , the account will show nil balance. One fine day, if you 
stop dealing with the creditor, the party’s name itself will be 
removed from the ledger. If the effects of your good deeds 
and bad deeds are totally nullified , you become like a 
creditor with nil balance; if even the intention to do Karma is 
absent, the cosmic forces will show you the exit route from 
this world. 


Ashtakavarga System of Prediction — Part 39 
By Dr.E.S.Neelakantan 


In our earlier part we discussed some of the concepts related to Saturn 
such as Sade-Sathi and its role in bringing grief. In this article, | will try to 
explain the theory of Ashtakavarga with a case study. 


We shall take up the chart of former Prime Minister of India, Mrs.Indira 
Gandhi for a discussion. | would like to highlight a couple of major incidents 
in her life, such as her becoming the Prime Minister of India and her 
assassination by her own security guards. To understand the reasons for 
these events, we need to understand the role of planets in acting as a 
trigger for events. 


If we look at houses 9, 10 and 11 in Mrs.Indira Gandhi’s chart, it can be 
seen that they contain 33, 33 and 32 bindus respectively,which is quire 
remarkable. The seventh house which denotes marriage has the least 
number of bindus in her chart. It is significant to note that Mrs.Indira 
Gandhi had a fairly brief married life as her husband Mr.Feroze Gandhi 
died of a heart attack in 1960, when he was only 48 years old. 


The factors which spoiled Ms.Gandhi’s married life are:- 

1. Presence of Venus in 6 with less bindus 

2. Mars in the 2™ giving rise to Kuja dosha 

3. Mars in the 8" from Moon. 

4. Saturn in the 7" from Moon. 

5. Rahu in the 12" from Moon and Ketu in 12" from lagna. 


Almost all the houses connected to marriage such as 2,4,7,8 and 12 are 
under affliction. 


In her chart, Jupiter has the following characteristics:- 
1. It is the lord of 9 (obhagya sthana) in 11 


2. It occupies Taurus with 6 bindus in its BAV chart 


3. The sign Taurus gets 32 bindus in the SAV chart 


4. It is involved in an exchange of signs with Venus, lord of 4 and 11 


Let us gain some idea about how many bindus the planets get in the BAV 


chart (Table 1). 


TABLE 1 

SIGN BAV SAV 
Sun 4 29 
Moon 4 22 
Mars 2 27 
Mercury 3 29 
Jupiter 6 32 
Venus 3 22 
Saturn 3 24 


From this analysis, we can infer that Jupiter is the foremost benefic while 
Mars and Saturn qualify as functional malefic under the Ashtakavarga 
system by getting fewer bindus. Venus as Kalatrakaraka fares poorly in 
sixth with first 3 bindus occupying a house which has only 22 bindus in the 


SAV chart. 


However, presence of Venus in 6 cannot be condemned as bad altogether. 
The noted scholar Late J.N.Bhasin has made certain observations about 
Venus in 6, quoting from Bhavartha Ratnakara and Uttara Kalamrita in his 
book, Hora Shatak ( which contains a lucid description of hundred 
principles of Vedic Astrology). 


According to J.N.Bhasin, “ Not only in the 12" but the presence of Venus in 
the 6" house also is equally good as from the 6" Venus would aspect the 
12" and will give in excess the significations, luxuries, comforts and 
sensual pleasures of the 12" house. The other point is that such a Venus 
would be in the 12" house from the house of life partner, i.e., the 7™ house. 
This view is supported by “ Bhavartha Ratnakara”. Venus in the 6" will give 
fame and affluence. It will give the same results in the 12" also (Bhavartha 
Ratnakara). About the auspiciousness of Venus in the 6", the view of 
Uttara Kalamrita is as under :- 


“Venus will do good when in the 6"" house, Rahu will be favourable when it 
occupies 4", 7", 9" 10™ and 11", Ketu will prove auspicious when it is in 
the 3 house” (Hora Shatak, pages 56, 57). 


| will now briefly explain the reasons for the premature death of Ms.Kamala 
Nehru, Ms.Indira Gandhi’s mother. Kamala Nehru was born on 18" August, 
1899 and passed away on 28" February, 1936 when she was just 36 years 
old, due to Tuberculosis. Indira Gandhi was running Mars dasha and Moon 
bhukti in 1936, when her mother died. Venus in Indira Gandhi’s chart 
promoted her fame and affluence but as 4"" lord (denoting mother) in 6 
(denoting disease), the plain inference one can draw is, she was not 
destined to enjoy maternal love. The Ashtakavarga features of Venus are 
not encouraging. From Chandra lagna, Mars as lord of 4 is placed in 8, a 
dustana. Venus is also afflicted by Rahu and occupies the house of 
Jupiter, a dire enemy. Moon as matrukaraka is afflicted in the Dwadasamsa 
chart by two malefic, Rahu and Ketu. When her mother died, Indira Gandhi 
was running the last phase of the Sade — Sathi of Saturn, with Sun moving 
into a close conjunction with Saturn, who is in a state of combustion. 


The Raja Yogas in Indira Gandhi's chart are all both powerful as well as 
promising. In the case of right time birth, Mahabhagya Yoga arises when 
Sun, Moon and the Ascendant are in even signs (Phaladeepika 6/14). 
Moon, in a quadrant other than the Ascendant, powerfully placed and 
receiving the aspect of Jupiter is enough to make the chart holder, a ruler 
or one equivalent to a ruler in terms of wealth, influence or power 
(Sarwartha Chintamani 9.14) 


One cannot miss out the most splendid formation in this chart viz., the 
presence of three Mahaparivartana Yogas involving :- 


(a) Jupiter and Venus (as lords of 9 and 11) 
(b) Sun and Mars (as lords of 2 and 5) 


(c) Moon and Saturn (as lords of 1 and 7) 


Till today, | am yet to come across a single chart, other than the chart of 
Ms.Indira Gandhi, which is studded with three instances of mutual 
interchange. The interchange of signs between Jupiter and Venus is highly 
beneficial as it leads to a Parasari Raja Yoga since it involves a quadrant 
lord and a trinal lord (vide Brinat Parasara Hora Sastra, chapter 41/28). It 
was during the conjoined periods of Jupiter and Moon, Indira Gandhi 
became the Prime Minister of India in January 1966. She became Prime 
Minister by winning the election in 1972 (in Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti) and 
in 1980 (Saturn dasa, Sun bhukti). The only reverse she had in politics was 
in 1977, when the Janata party came to power with a landslide victory 
mainly due to the fact that Mrs.Gandhi was running Saturn dasha and 
Venus bhukti; the weaknesses of the bhukti lord have been highlighted 
earlier and need no reiteration. In that period,transit Saturn was over her 
natal ascendant and in the 7 from Moon, causing Kantaka Shani. Furthur 


Venus in the 8" in Dasamsa chart had only sinister connotions for her, as 
far as elections were concerned. Saturn exalted in the 11" in Dasamsa 
favoured her in the elections in Sun bhukti as Sun is the favourable 9" in 
Dasamsa,in its own house. 


The same Saturn gets relegated to the 12" in her Saptamsa chart. With 
bhukti lord Sun, in the 11" in the Saptamsa chart, it meant that the bhukti 
lord occupied the house of loss (12"") from Dasha lord in Saptamsa chart. It 
was in Saturn dasha and Sun bhukti, Indira Gandhi suffered a major 
personal tragedy in the death of her younger son,Sanjay Gandhi in a tragic 
air accident. This event can also be seen in the Rasi chart where the 12" 
lord occupies 5" house both from Ascendant as well as Moon sign. 


While dealing with the Ashtakavarga of Mars, we learnt that when Mars 
transit a house with just one bindu, bodily afflictions through weapons or 
firearms is possible. 


On October 31,1984 Mars was in Sagittarius; in that house Mars gets just 1 
bindu in its BAV chart. The natal ascendant of Mrs.Gandhi comes under 
the combined aspect of Mars and Saturn, both first rate malefics. Saturn in 
the 10" from natal Moon and Jupiter, and Mars in the 12" are all 
unfavourable. Saturn, the dasha lord is a Maraka by virtue of owning the 7" 
and occupying the 7" from Moon. Rahu in 12" from Moon as bhukti lord 
and 12" lord Mercury as Anthra lord, all become indicators of her leaving 
the mortal coil. She was assassinated by her own body guards ,a tragic 
event unheard of in history which is signified by the malefic influences of 
Saturn and Rahu. The life of one of the most charismatic leaders India 
ever produced had come to an untimely end. Mrs.Gandhi’s horoscope 
could be studied by students of astrology for gaining valuable insights into 
Astrology. 


INDIRA GANDHI 
19 November 1917 ¢ 23:11:00 hrs. * Allahabad, India 


Provided by 


Parashara Software Pvt. Ltd. 


H-13, Chitranjan Marg, 
C-Scheme, Jaipur-302001 
Ph: 0141- 2364129, 23602084 
Fax: 2373696 
indiasales@parashara.com 
Processed On: 11 February 2013 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Hindu Calendar 


Birth Particulars 


Sex 

Date of birth 
Day of birth 
Time of birth 
Ishtkaal 
Place of birth 
Country 


Latitude 
Longitude 

Time zone 
War/daylight Corr. 
GMT at birth 
LMT Corr. 

Local Mean Time 
Sidereal Time 
Sunsign (Western) 
Lagna 


Female 

19 November 1917 
Monday 

23:11:00 hrs 
41:48:6 ghatis 
Allahabad 

India 


25N30'00 
81E30'00 
-05:30:00 hrs 
00:00:00 hrs 
17:41:00 hrs 
-00:04:59 hrs 
23:07:00 hrs 
26:59:42 hrs 
Scorpio 

Can 27:04:52 


Family Particulars 


Grand Father 
Father 
Mother 
Caste 
Gotra 


Chakra 


Varna 
Vashya 
. Nakshatra - Pada 
Yoni 

. Rashish 

Gana 

Rashi 

. Nadi 

Varga 

Yunja 

Hansak (Tatwa) 
Naamakshar 

Paya (Rashi) 

Paya (Nakshatra) 


SIAR RWS 


Avakhada 


Vaishya 
Chatushpada 
Uttarashadha - 3 
Nakula 
Saturn 
Manushya 
Capricorn 
Antya 
Simha 
Antya 
Bhoomi 

Jah 

Copper 
Copper 


Tamil Calendar 


Tamil Year 
Tamil Month 
Tamil Weekday 
Tamil Date 


NA 
NA 


NA 


Chaitradi System 


Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 
Kartikadi System 

Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 
Saka Samvat 
Sun's Ayana/Gola 
Season 
Paksha 
Hindu Weekday 


Tithi at sunrise 
Tithi ending time 


Tithi at birth 


Nak. At sunrise 
Nak. ending time 


Nak. at birth 


Yoga at sunrise 
Yoga ending time 


Yoga at birth 


Karana at sunrise 


Karana ending time: 


Karana at birth 


Sunrise Time 
Degree 

Sunset Time 
Degree 

Next - day Sunrise 


Moon Nak. entry 
Moon Nak. exit 
Bhayat 

Bhabhog 

Dasha at Birth 
Balance of Dasha 
Ayanamsha 


1974 
Kartikka 


1974 
Kartikka 


1839 
Dakshinayan/Dakshin 
Hemant 

Shukla 

Monday 


Shukla Panchami 
20:26:25 hrs 
34:56:38 ghatis 
Shukla Shashthi 


P.Shad. 
07:37:50 hrs 
2:55:12 ghatis 
Uttarashadha 


Shoolam 
07:24:24 hrs 
2:21:36 ghatis 
Ganda 


Bava 
09:08:57 
6:42:58 ghatis 
Kaulava 


06:27:45 hrs 
Sco 03:25:18 
17:10:43 hrs 
Sco 03:52:43 
Tue 06:28:30 hrs. 


19 Nov 1917 07:37:50 
20 Nov 1917 06:49:55 
38:52:53 ghatis 
19:7:16 ghatis 
Sun-Mercury-Venus 
Sun ly 11m 15d 
-22:42:53 Lahiri 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 2 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Birth Chart 


19 November 1917 * Monday ¢ 23:11:00 hrs ¢ Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India 


JuR 15:00 


Ke 09:12 
Gk 22:05 


Mo 05:35 


Sa 21:47 
AS 27:04 


Ma 16:22 


Ve 21:00 
Ra 09:12 


Su 04:07 
Me 13:13 


Navamsha 


AS 


Mo 


Planet R/C Sign Degree Nakshatra 


Lagna Can 27:04:52 Ashlesha 
Sun Sco 04:07:31 01:00:35 Anuradha 
Moon Cap 05:35:17 13:49:08 Uttarashadha 
Mars Leo 16:22:30 00:30:14 Poorva Phalg. 
Mercury C Sco 13:13:46 01:32:24 Anuradha 
Jupiter R Tau 15:00:06 -00:07:56 Rohini 
Venus Sag 21:00:19 01:04:19 Poorvashadha 
Saturn Can 21:47:14 00:00:43 Ashlesha 
Rahu Sag 09:12:17 00:01:36 Moola 

Ketu Gem 09:12:17 00:01:36 Ardra 


Speed Status SB 


Grt.Fr. 0.83 
Enemy 1.40 
Grt.Fr. 1.71 
Frnd. 1.07 
Grt.En. 1.05 
Enemy 1.20 
Grt.En. 1.22 
Neutr. 

Neutr. 


PWN WN Wr We fb 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 «3 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Chandra, Navamsha and Bhava 


Moon Chart Navamsha 


JuR Gk JuR 


Bhava(Sripati) 


Ke JuR 


Mo Ve | Ra Me Su 


Bhava Spashta - Sripati System 


Bhava Number Bhava Arambha Bhava Madhya Bhava Antya 
House beginning Middle of House House ending 


. First Can 11:40:51 Can 27:04:52 Leo 11:40:51 
. Second Leo 11:40:51 Leo 26:16:50 Vir 10:52:48 
. Third i 10:52:48 1 25:28:47 Lib 10:04:46 
. Fourth i 10:04:46 i 24:40:45 Sco 10:04:46 
. Fifth 10:04:46 25:28:47 10:52:48 
. Sixth 10:52:48 26:16:50 11:40:51 
. Seventh 11:40:51 27:04:52 11:40:51 
. Eight 11:40:51 26:16:50 10:52:48 
. Ninth 1 10:52:48 1 25:28:47 10:04:46 
10. Tenth i 10:04:46 1 24:40:45 10:04:46 
11. Eleventh 10:04:46 25:28:47 10:52:48 
12. Twelfth 10:52:48 26:16:50 11:40:51 


OMONIDNDNBWN KE 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 4 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Sudarshan Chakra 


Sudarshan Chakra 


Outer Circle : Surya Chart 
Middle Circle : Chandra Chart 
Inner Circle : Birth Chart 


Sudarshan Chakra represents the comparative positions of the planets in 
the Sun Chart, the Moon Chart and the Birth Chart simultaneously, 
from outer to inner circle respectively. 

To study a house, consider the signs in all the three charts simultaneously. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °5 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Divisional Charts #1 


Ma Su Mo 
Ve Gk Me 


JuR Sa Ra 
Mo Ke As 


Ra Ve Su Me 


Dreshkana (happiness siblin Chaturthamsha (destiny) 


Sa Me 
As AS 


Gk 


Mo 


Ma Ra Su JuR Su 


Saptamsha (children) Navamsha (spouse 


Ve Su As Gk 


Mo 


Sa 


Gk Ma Ke Ve Me 


Dashamsha (great successes) Dwadashamsha (parents) 


eee Me AS 


Ma Gk 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °6 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Shodashamsha (conveyances) 


ey 


Divisional Charts #2 


Vimshamsha (spiritual progress) 


Me Sa 


JuR Ma 
Ra Ke 


As Mo 


Ra Ke 
Su 


Ve Gk 


Su 


Gk Ma 


JuR Ve As 


Chaturvimshamsha (knowledge) 


Saptavimshamsha (strength) 


Ra Ke 


As 


Me 


Su 


Gk 


Ke Ma 


Gk 


As 


Sa Ve 


Mo 


Su 


Mo Ra 
Me 


Ve 


Trimshamsha (misfortunes) 


Kvedams 


ha (ausp. 


inausp. effects) 


Me JuR 


Su 


Sa Su 
Me 


Ra Ke 


Mo 


Ra Ke 


Sa 


Ma 


AS 


AS 


Akshavedamsha (all areas) 


Shashtiamsha (all areas) 


Ma 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 +7 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Sub-Planets 


Upagrahas or Sub-planets 
Gulikaadi Group 


Birth between sun-set and midnight * Sunrise-Sunset : 06:27-17:10 * Astrological Weekday : Monday 


Upagraha Lord Duration of Beginning (Parashara Method) Ending (Kalidasa method) 


Upaecaha Sign Degree Nakshatra P Sign Degree Nakshatra P 


Kaalavela Sun 20:30-22:09 Gem 22:05:34 Punarvasul Can 13:46:19 Pushya 4 
Paridhi Mon =. 22:09-23:49 Can 13:46:19 Pushya 4 Leo 05:34:51 Magha 2 
Mrityu Mar 23:49-01:29 Leo 05:34:51 Magha Leo 27:54:12 U.Phalg. 1 
Ardhaprahara Mer 01:29-03:09 Leo 27:54:12 U.Phalg. Vir 20:27:14 Hasta 4 
Yamakantaka Jup 03:09-04:48 Vir 20:27:14 Hasta Lib 12:41:42 Swati 2 
Kodanda Ven 17:10-18:50 Tau 03:52:15 Krittika Tau 29:23:52 Mrigashi 2 
Gulika Sat 18:50-20:30 Tau 29:23:52 Mrigashi Gem 22:05:34 Punarvasu | 


Dhoomadi Group 
Upagraha Lord Sign Degree Nakshatra 


Dhooma Mar i 17:27:31 Revati 
Vyatipata Rah i 12:32:29 Ashwini 
Parivesha Mon i 12:32:29 Swati 
Inderchapa Ven i 17:27:31 Hasta 
Upaketu Ket i 04:07:31 Chitra 


Upagraha Chart (Beginning Time) | Upagraha Chart (Ending Time) 


Dh Vy Ko Gk Dh Vy Gk 


Ka As Ka As 


Pr Mr Pr Mr 


Ar Cp k | ArCp 


Special Lagnas and Points 


Bhava Lagna Can 14:13:59 Yogi Point 13:02:48 Sco 
Hora Lagna Pis 25:02:40 Yogi Sa 

Ghatika Lagna Ari = 27:28:43 Avayogi/Duplicate Yogi Mo/Ma 

Indu Lagna Gem 15:00:00 64th Navamsha (Moon/AscJYaurus/Gemini 
Kshetra Sphuta Can 06:57:53 22nd Dreshkana (Asc/Mooi)ibra/Leo 
Birth chart/Navamsha even/even 100% (good) Sarpa Dreshkana SuMeSa 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 *8 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Birth Charts 


Date of birth : 19 November 1917, Monday Longitude/Latitude :  81E30'00 25N30'00 
Time of birth : 23:11:00 hrs Time zone : -05:30:00 hrs 
Place of birth : Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India DST : 00:00:00 hrs 


Birth Chart Moon Chart Sun Chart 


Mo Mo 


Ra Ve |Su Me Ra Ve |Su Me 


Sripati Bhava Equal Bhava 


Mo 


Mo Ve|Ra Me| Su Ra Ve |Su Me Mo | Ra Ve |Su Me 


Arudha Lagna Chart Karkamsha in Birth Chart Karkamsha in Navamsha 


JuR JuR |Ke Gk||} As Gk JuR Ra 


Sa As Mo 


Mo Ma Sa 


Ra Ve |Su Me Ke 


Hora Lagna Ghatika Lagna 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °9 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Planetary Friendship 


Naisargik Maitri Chakra (Natural Relationship) 


Friends 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Mercury| Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Mercury 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Saturn 


Mercury 
Venus 
Rahu 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Enemies 


Neutral 


Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Rahu 
Ketu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Mercury 
Rahu 


Mercury 
Venus 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rah Ket 


Sun 
Moon 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Ketu 
Jupiter Jupiter 
Mercury 


Tatkalik Maitri Chakra (Temporal Relationship) 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury| Jupiter 


Saturn | Rahu Ketu 


Friends 


Enemies 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Ketu 


Sun 
Mercury 
Venus 
Rahu 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Ketu 


Sun 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Sat Ket 


Mars 
Saturn 
Ketu 


Moon 
Mars 
Venus 
Rahu 


Sun 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Ketu 


Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 
Ven Rah 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rah Ket 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Sat Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 
Ven Rah 


Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 
Ven Rah 


Panchadha Maitri Chakra (Compound Relationship) 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury| Jupiter 


Saturn 


Fast Friends 


Sun 
Mercury 


Sun 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Friends 


Neutral 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Rahu 


Venus 


Saturn 


Moon 
Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Saturn 
Rah Ket 


Jupiter | Mercury | Jupiter 


Mars 
Mercury 
Venus 
Rah Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Ven Sat 


Enemies 


Bitter 
Enemies 


Mercury 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Venus 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Ketu 


Mercury 
Venus 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Mercury 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 10 


INDIRA GANDHI Shodashvarga Summary 


Shodashvarga Summary 


Signs occupied by planets in Shodashvargas 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu 


Janma Can Sco Cap Leo Sco Tau Sag Can Sag 

Hora Leo Can Can Can Can Leo Can Leo Leo 
Dreshkana Pis Sco Cap Sag Pis Vir Leo Pis Sag 
Chaturthamsha = Ari Sco Cap Aqu Aqu Sco Gem Cap Pis 
Saptamsha Can Tau Leo Sco Leo Aqu Ari Gem Aqu 
Navamsha Pis Leo Aqu Leo Lib Tau Lib Cap Gem 
Dashamsha Sag Leo Lib Cap Sco Gem Can Lib Pis 
Dwadashamsha ‘Tau Sag Pis Aqu Ari Sco Leo Pis Pis 
Shodashamsha Gem Lib Gem Ari Pis Ari Sco Pis Ari 
Vimshamsha Lib Aqu Can Lib Leo Lib Lib Gem Aqu Aqu 
Chaturvimshamsha Ari Lib Sco Vir Tau Can Sag Sag Pis Pis 
Saptavimshamsha Cap Ari Sag Gem Sag Leo Lib Leo Sag Gem 
Trimshamsha Sco Tau Vir Sag Pis Pis Gem Cap Aqu Aqu 
Khavedamsha Lib Pis Tau Cap Pis Gem Leo Pis Ari Ari 
Akshavedamsha Leo Aqu Sag Leo Pis Gem Can Sag Cap Cap 
Shashtiamsha Cap Can Sag Ari Cap Sco Gem Aqu Gem Sag 


Dignities of planets in Shodashvargas 


Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


Janma Grt.Fr. Enemy .Fr. — Frnd. Grt.En. Enemy Grt.En. Neutr. Neutr. 
Hora Neutr. Own il. Grt.En.  Grt.Fr.  Grt.En. Neutr. Neutr. Neutr. 
Dreshkana Grt.Fr. Frnd. Fr.  Debil. Grt.En. Neutr. Enemy Neutr. Neutr. 
Chaturthamsha  Grt.Fr. Enemy : Frnd. Grt.Fr.  Neutr. Own Neutr. Neutr. 
Saptamsha Neutr.  Grt.Fr. Grt.Fr. Enemy Enemy = Grt.Fr. Own Neutr. 
Navamsha Moolt. Frnd. : Neutr. Grt.En. Moolt. Own Moolt. Moolt. 
Dashamsha Moolt. Frnd. ; Frnd. Grt.En. Neutr. Exalt. Neutr. Neutr. 
Dwadashamsha Grt.Fr. Enemy ; Frnd. Grt.Fr.  Grt.En. Neutr. Neutr. 
Shodashamsha Debil. = Grt.Fr. Debil. Neutr. Enemy : Neutr. Neutr. 
Vimshamsha Grt.En. Own Neutr. Grt.En. Moolt. Fr. Own Neutr. 
Chaturvimshamsha Debil. _ Debil. En.  Neutr. Exalt. Enemy Neutr. Own 

Saptavimshamsha Exalt. Enemy En. Enemy = Neutr. Own En.  Neutr. Neutr. 
Trimshamsha Neutr. Neutr. Fr. — Debil. Own Grt.Fr. Own Neutr. 
Khavedamsha Grt.Fr.  Exalt. : Debil. Neutr. Grt.En. : Neutr. Neutr. 
Akshavedamsha Neutr. Enemy : Debil. Neutr. Grt.En. Neutr. Neutr. 
Shashtiamsha Neutr. — Frnd. Frnd. Neutr. Neutr. : Moolt. —_ Moolt. 


Vimshopaka Bala 

Sun Moon Mercury Jupiter Venus Ketu 
Shadavarga 17 
Saptavarga 15 


Dashavarga 16 
Shodashavarga 16 


Dispositors in 6 divisions (Shad Varga) 
Sun Moon Mars Jupiter Venus Saturn 


Ma(2) Sa(3) — Su(2) Ve(2)  Su(2) Ju(2) 

Mo(1) Mo(1)  Ju(2) Ma(1) Mo(1)  Sa(2) 

Su(1) Me(1) Mo(1) Me(1) Me(1)  Su(1) 
Jud) Ju(1)_~——sSa(l) Ju(l) Ju(l)— Mo(1) 
Ve (1) Su(1) _Ve(1) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 11 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Shad Bala 


Sun Moon 


Ochcha Bala 8.04 20.86 6.12 40.59 
Sapta-vargaja Bala 120.00 90.00 =142.50 75.00 
Ojhayugma bala 15.00 15.00 30.00 15.00 
Kendradi Bala 30.00 60.00 30.00 30.00 
Drekkana Bala 15.00 0.00 0.00 15.00 
. Sthana Bala 188.04 185.86 208.62 175.59 


. Dig-Bala 3.15 36.36 22.77 24.62 


Shad Bala and Bhava Bala 


Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 


43.33 28.00 30.60 
80.62 82.50 101.25 
0.00 0.00 0.00 
30.00 15.00 60.00 
0.00 15.00 0.00 
153.96 140.50 191.85 


35.97 41.22 1.76 


Nata-Unnata Bala 3.35 56.65 56.65 60.00 
Paksha Bala 39.51 20.49 39.51 39.51 
Tri-Bhaga Bala 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
Varsha Bala 0.00 0.00 0.00 15.00 
Maasa Bala 0.00 0.00 30.00 0.00 
Vaara Bala 0.00 45.00 0.00 0.00 
Hora Bala 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
Ayana Bala 4.89 56.41 40.71 57.39 


Yuddha Bala 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
3. Kaala Bala 47.75 178.55 166.87 171.91 


4. Chesta Bala 4.89 20.49 50.96 19.30 
5. Naisargika Bala 60.00 51.42 17.16 25.74 


3.35 3.35 56.65 
20.49 20.49 39.51 
60.00 60.00 0.00 

0.00 0.00 0.00 

0.00 0.00 0.00 

0.00 0.00 0.00 
60.00 0.00 0.00 
57.76 0.86 8.60 


0.00 0.00 0.00 
201.60 84.70 104.76 


57.52 49.90 45.08 
34.26 42.84 8.58 


6. Drig Bala 18.32 30.40 48.02 34.07 


-73.42 35.47 14.90 


Total Shadbala 322.14 503.08 51440 451.22 


Shadbala in Rupas 5.37 8.38 8.57 7.52 
Minimum requirements 390 360 300 420 390 330 300 


% of required 0.83 1.40 1.71 1.07 


409.89 394.63 366.93 
6.83 6.58 6.12 


1.05 1.20 1.22 


Sthana Bala % req. 1.14 1.40 2.17 1.06 
Dig-Bala % req 0.09 0.73 0.76 0.70 
Kaala Bala % req. 0.43 1.79 2.49 1.53 
Chesta Bala % req. 0.10 0.68 1.27 0.39 


0.93 1.06 2.00 
1.03 0.82 0.06 
1.80 0.85 1.56 
1.15 1.66 1.13 


Drig-Bala % req. 0.16 1.41 2.04 1.91 1.93 0.02 0.43 


Relative Rank 7 2 1 5 


6 4 3 


Ishta Phala 9.55 20.68 28.54 29.95 
Kashta Phala 50.45 39.32 31.46 30.05 


50.43 38.95 37.84 
9.57 21.05 22.16 


Bhava Bala 


VVI vu 
Rashi 
Degree 


From Lord 
Dig Bala 
Drishti 
Planets in 
Day-Night 


Bhava Bala Total 480 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 12 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Aspected 
Planets 


Aspects on Planets 


Aspecting Planets 


Sun Moon Mars 
214:07 275:35 136:22 223:13 


Aspects on Planets and Bhavas 


MercuryJupiter Venus 
45:00 261:00 


Saturn Rahu 
111:47 249:12 


Sun 


4/4 - lA 
(41) (38) 


1/2 
(38) 


Moon 


Mars 


: 4/4 
(10) (55) 


3/4 
(45) 


4/4 
(27) 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


4/4 
(56) 


Saturn 


Rahu 


Ketu 


3/4 
(47) 


Aspects on Bhavas 


Aspecting Planets 


Aspected Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu 


Bhava 


214:07 275:35 136:22 223:13 


45:00 261:00 


111:47 249:12 


First 
Second 
Third 
Fourth 
Fifth 
Sixth 
Seventh 
Eighth 
Ninth 
Tenth 
Eleventh 
Twelfth 


49 
34 
19 

4 


27 
51 
47 
24 
53 
51 
47 

8 


41 
26 
fl 


10 
57 
42 
24 
10 


53 
42 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 13 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Planet 


Graha Avasthas - Planets and their Moods 


Jagradadi 
Avastha 
(set of 3) 


Baladi 
Avastha 
(set of 5) 


Lajjitadi Avastha 


(set of 6) 


Deeptadi 
Avastha 
(set of 9) 


Planetary Avasthas 


Shyanadi 
Avastha 
(set of 12) 


Sun 


Moon 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Lajjit Mudit 


Kshudit Mudit 


Mudita 
(Delighted) 


Dukhi 
(Tormented) 


Gamenechchha 
(Eager to go) 


Sabhayam Vasti 
(in an assembly) 


Mars 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Mudita 
(Delighted) 


Prakashana 
(Luminous) 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Sushupti 
(State of sleep) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Lajjit Mudit Kshobit 


Kshudit 


Shanta 
(Quiescent) 


Khala 
(Wicked) 


Netrapani 
(hands on eyes) 


Kautaka 
(Delight) 


Venus 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Vridhha 
(Old age) 


Kshudit 


Dukhi 
(Tormented) 


Sabhayam Vasti 
(in an assembly) 


Saturn 


Rahu 


Sushupti 
(State of sleep) 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Kshudit Mudit 


Mudit 


Khala 
(Wicked) 


Deena 
(Deficient) 


Prakashana 
(Luminous) 


Sabhayam Vasti 
(in an assembly) 


Ketu 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Mudit 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Deena 
(Deficient) 


Shayana 
(Recumbent) 


HP3 + 14 


HP3 +15 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #1 


00 SF 00 00 CN T~ SF \O 


48 


thr Or oot 


mrrnsaTtnn 


39 


CO SF 00M 0O 00 \O [~ 


2345 67 


i.) 
oy 
i) 
> 
& 
i) 
~ 
co 
N 
: 
c= 
aa 
i} 
& 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
i) 
oy 
S 
ay 
is) 
— 
co 
nN 
< 


an OOO nNees 


onan OoOnOoe 


aOR ROoOnROoOoe 


=OOn-o- Oo 


oon aene Orne 


—-ONneR ROO; 


aOR OoOCHnOr 


SUT OOM Oo 


Onn OOoOoCo 


an OOOnmoOO 


ooonmooon 


aa OOCoOn 


aR OCOnmHO 


oonmononoO 


ON aRee nH Oer 


Sonoma TooO 


ooocooono 


oon aNaAa ene o 


Sa HOMO 


ona e OOo 


oncoOonmannoO 


onoonnoo 


14 63 4 4 |49 


1011121 2 3 4 


=OCOoOnmoon 


oonmooono 


=aOnROoOnROoOOr- 


anOOoOnOoOnOe 


Sq OOM OO 


an OOCOO 


“O°ConmOoOnROoOoO 


ooocooocon- 


oonmononoO 


aA OCOoOnOCoCO 


ocoonn-onOoe 


13 3 65 4 2 3 


SqOeeeees 
oonmnonoo 
SsOnOne eas 
sOOnmnTOH 
oonooon7o 
aOoOnOooOoCcon- 
Seeeeeees 
SSO 
-OoOnOnOone 
hI) hee) 


onoonoon 


54 


INDIRA GANDHI 


8 9 1011 121 
4233545 53 45 5 
101112123 45 67 8 9 
43 45 6 5 

5 678 9 

8 9 1011121 23 45 67 
3.3 3 5 683 2563 7 


2 4 3 3 


CoonmnmoOoooo oonmoonnoO 


y 


Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Mercur 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 16 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #2 


WJFOOT~DNOCOND 


56 


MmNOMNNNDCO 


52 


Ftorm Momo 


39 


ONNOMM™ Nt 


i.e) 
ep 
i) 
> 
& 
i.) 
~ 
co 
N 
: 
c= 
aa 
i} 
& 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
i) 
oy 
S 
a 
is) 
— 
co 
nN 
< 


oooonnTon 


onmnOoonoOr 


onnanOoOn no 


ooonmnmoon 


an On OonOre 


Sa Oe 


oooo7oon 


SE eh eh el oe ek SP) 


Ona nOor 


ConOnOnees 


aaa OOOO 


1011121 23 45 67 8 


=OCoOooCOons 


—eONnRnROoOO- 


aq One ee 


oooconones 


oonOoneenOr 


oonmnoOoocoo 


=OOCoCoCOon- 


-OoOnOoOnm nH oOo 


an OORn aes 


oO OC-nOrn 


on OoOne nso 


2 3 


SoonnoOonnoO 
sons OOoH 
onOooonor 
onoCoooono 
ooonoooo 
oonoo°oceoo 
aon RoOoOoOoOr 
kh he heel) 
ono nTOr 
aHOnOoTOeH 


ooonmonoo 


12 3 5 4 


on OooOonnoO 
aA OOOO 
=O OonANOoOn 
onCcononoO 
ononmnaeToOooO 
Sona TOOO 
=O COnASs 
onCcoonmnHoO 
aA OOnT oO 
aAOnOoOnTO- 


(opt ahaha hank ak? Le) 


INDIRA GANDHI 


2345 67 8 9 1011121 
64566275 3 5 4 3 
455653243 75 3 
45 67 8 9 1011 121 

45 67 8 9 1011121 2 3 
255535443 5 4 4 {49 


3.25544 1 


sOCOonmooOooO 


9 


ons OonmonO 


Sign 
Totals 
Lagna 
Sion 
Totals 


Jupiter 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


INDIRA GANDHI Sarvashtaka & Chancha Chakra 


Sarvashtakvarga 


Samudaya Ashtakavarga 
33 33 32 


25 


22 


WOW onNn BB] Nn) eS 


23 


Wl} AWaAWBAN) B] dM 


N 
WI} ArNIDNDWBDAWN MN] D 


a 


NV | BRRUNWRE ABD/] UT! © 


N | BRWIWWHA]W! CO 
eS) 


Wl MONdNnrnwWwWwn|n| 
oo 


NO |NVWADNAAILNA! NHN 
So 


NO | _ wbBanwre Ww] dy] 
~ 


NY | RBNBNNUNY| BB] WL 
aN 


aN 
Nl ePuOnwww AW] p 


WI NNBADAMN 


ies) 
ies) 


2 0 1 
41 23 23.55 


54 22 33 
4134333513 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 17 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Ashtakavarga - Reductions 


Before Reduction Trikona Reduction Ekadhipatya Reduction 


Sun 4 5 2 2 2 2 1 2 


Rashi Pinda 79 : : 
Graha Pinda 46 0 
Sodhya Pinda 125 


Moon 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mars 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mercury 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Jupiter 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Venus 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Saturn 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Lagna 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 18 


INDIRA GANDHI Divisional Charts - Ashtakavarga 


Divisional Charts - Ashtakavarga 


Birth chart Samudaya Ashtakavarga Hora (wealth) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


33 33 32 28 30 48 


Ma Su Mo 
Ve Gk Me 


JuR Sa Ra 
Ke As 


Ra Ve | Su Me 23 28 30 30 28 24 


Dreshkana (happiness siblings) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Saptamsha (children) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


Sa Me 


“Ag Ke 27 22 28 Ve Su 24 27 28 


Ra JuR 


Ma Ra| Su 29 27 24 Gk Ma 38 24 28 


Navamsha (spouse) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Dashamsha (great successes) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


As Gk JuR 38 26 29 Ra JuR 35 30 31 


27 


Ke Ve Me 31 24 23 As Me |SaMo]| Ke 25 27 30 


Dwadashamsha (parents) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Shodashamsha (conveyances) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


MGR?) aie ||) ae 29 22 27 ie sy As Mo 28 31 24 
Sa Ra Ke 


Ma Gk 


Su JuR 29 22 31 Ve Gk| Su 24 33 22 


Trimshamsha (misfortun Samudaya Ashtakavarga Shashtiamsha (all areas) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


Me JuR Su 27 25 22 Ma 25 32 34 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 19 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Influence of Grahas on Physiology 


Planet 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Sookshma Scheme 


Body Part 


Right cheek 
Mouth 

Right Shoulder 
Right Heart 

Left arm 

Right calf 

Left side of Pelvis 
Right Jaw 

Left eye 


Sthoola Scheme 


Planet 


Body Part 


Body Part 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Nakshatra Scheme 


Generative organs 
Knees 

Stomach 
Generative organs 
Face 

Thighs 

Heart 

Thighs 

Arms 


Stomach 

Space below navel 
Face 

Stomach 

Ankles 

Hip 

Head 

Hip 

Feet 


Health 


Planet 


Nakshatra 


Opinion 1 


Opinion 2 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Anuradha 
Uttarashadha 
Poorva Phalg. 
Anuradha 
Rohini 
Poorvashadha 
Ashlesha 
Moola 

Ardra 


Heart 

Both thighs 
Private parts 
Heart 

Both legs 
Both thighs 
Nails 

Both feet 
Hair 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Stomach 
Waiste 


Right hand 


Stomach 
Forehead 
Back 
Ears 
Left side 
Eyes 


HP3 « 20 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari MD and AD 


Vimshottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Sun (6y) 
From 0 yrs. to lyllm 


Moon (10y) 
From lyllm to lly9m 


: Sun ly 11m 15d 
: Su-Me-Ve-Ma-Ju 


Mars (7y) 
From lly9mto 18y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Rahu 

Jupiter 

Saturn 

Mercury 19-11-1917 06-07-1918 
Ketu 06-07-1918 09-11-1918 
Venus 09-11-1918 04-11-1919 


Moon 04-11-1919 30-08-1920 
Mars 30-08-1920 28-03-1921 
Rahu 28-03-1921 19-09-1922 
Jupiter 19-09-1922 12-01-1924 
Saturn 12-01-1924 04-08-1925 
Mercury 04-08-1925 27-12-1926 
Ketu 27-12-1926 25-07-1927 
Venus 25-07-1927 16-03-1929 
Sun 16-03-1929 12-09-1929 


Mars 12-09-1929 06-02-1930 
Rahu 06-02-1930 19-02-1931 
Jupiter 19-02-1931 21-01-1932 
Saturn 21-01-1932 23-02-1933 
Mercury 23-02-1933 15-02-1934 
Ketu 15-02-1934 12-07-1934 
Venus 12-07-1934 05-09-1935 
Sun 05-09-1935 09-01-1936 
Moon 09-01-1936 06-08-1936 


Rahu (18y) 
From 18y8m to 36y5m 


Jupiter (16y) 
From 36y5m to 52y2m 


Saturn (19y) 
From 52y2mto 70yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 06-08-1936 05-04-1939 
Jupiter 05-04-1939 16-08-1941 
Saturn 16-08-1941 07-06-1944 
Mercury 07-06-1944 12-12-1946 
Ketu 12-12-1946 25-12-1947 
Venus 25-12-1947 09-12-1950 
Sun 09-12-1950 29-10-1951 
Moon — 29-10-1951 21-04-1953 
Mars 21-04-1953 04-05-1954 


Jupiter 04-05-1954 10-06-1956 
Saturn 10-06-1956 09-12-1958 
Mercury 09-12-1958 04-03-1961 
Ketu 04-03-1961 03-02-1962 
Venus 03-02-1962 20-09-1964 
Sun 20-09-1964 05-07-1965 
Moon = 05-07-1965 28-10-1966 
Mars 28-10-1966 29-09-1967 
Rahu 29-09-1967 09-02-1970 


Saturn 09-02-1970 27-01-1973 
Mercury 27-01-1973 23-09-1975 
Ketu 23-09-1975 26-10-1976 
Venus 26-10-1976 10-12-1979 
Sun 10-12-1979 16-11-1980 
Moon 16-11-1980 09-06-1982 
Mars 09-06-1982 13-07-1983 
Rahu 13-07-1983 04-05-1986 


Jupiter 04-05-1986 01-11-1988 


Mercury (17y) 
From 70yl1m to 87y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Mercury 01-11-1988 18-03-1991 


Ketu 18-03-1991 09-03-1992 
Venus 09-03-1992 24-12-1994 
Sun 24-12-1994 26-10-1995 
Moon — 26-10-1995 19-03-1997 
Mars 19-03-1997 11-03-1998 
Rahu 11-03-1998 14-09-2000 


Jupiter 14-09-2000 09-12-2002 


Saturn 09-12-2002 04-08-2005 


Ketu (7y) 
From 87y8m to 94y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 04-08-2005 29-12-2005 


Venus 29-12-2005 22-02-2007 
Sun 22-02-2007 28-06-2007 
Moon ~— 28-06-2007 24-01-2008 
Mars 24-01-2008 19-06-2008 
Rahu 19-06-2008 02-07-2009 
Jupiter 02-07-2009 03-06-2010 
Saturn 03-06-2010 07-07-2011 


Mercury 07-07-2011 28-06-2012 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Venus (20y) 


From 94y7mto 114y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 28-06-2012 11-10-2015 
Sun 11-10-2015 05-10-2016 
Moon 05-10-2016 28-05-2018 
Mars 28-05-2018 22-07-2019 
Rahu 22-07-2019 06-07-2022 
Jupiter 06-07-2022 20-02-2025 
Saturn 20-02-2025 05-04-2028 
Mercury 05-04-2028 20-01-2031 
Ketu 20-01-2031 15-03-2032 


HP3 « 21 


INDIRA GANDHI Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #1 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Sun Mahadasha 19-11-1917 to 04-11-1919 
Age: Oy 0m to ly Ilm 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sun-Sun 
Antar __ Beginning 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Sun-Rahu 
Antar __ Beginning 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Sun-Mercury 


Sun-Moon 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 


Sun-Jupiter 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Sun-Ketu Oy7m 


Sun-Mars 
Antar __ Beginning 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Sun-Saturn 
Antar __ Beginning 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun-Venus 


Oyllm 


Antar Beginning 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar _ Beginning 


Ending 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


19-11-1917 24-12-1917 
24-12-1917 09-01-1918 
09-01-1918 03-02-1918 
03-02-1918 21-02-1918 
21-02-1918 08-04-1918 
08-04-1918 19-05-1918 
19-05-1918 06-07-1918 


Ketu 06-07-1918 14-07-1918 
Venus 14-07-1918 04-08-1918 
Sun 04-08-1918 10-08-1918 
Moon 10-08-1918 20-08-1918 
Mars 20-08-1918 28-08-1918 
Rahu 28-08-1918 16-09-1918 
Jupiter 16-09-1918 02-10-1918 
Saturn 02-10-1918 22-10-1918 
Mercury 22-10-1918 09-11-1918 


Venus 09-11-1918 08-01-1919 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


08-01-1919 26-01-1919 
26-01-1919 25-02-1919 
25-02-1919 18-03-1919 
18-03-1919 11-05-1919 
11-05-1919 28-06-1919 
28-06-1919 24-08-1919 
24-08-1919 14-10-1919 
14-10-1919 04-11-1919 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 22 


INDIRA GANDHI Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #2 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Moon Mahadasha 04-11-1919 to 12-09-1929 
Age: ly Ilmto lly 9m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Moon-Moon lyl1lm* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


04-11-1919 29-11-1919 
29-11-1919 17-12-1919 
17-12-1919 31-01-1920 
31-01-1920 11-03-1920 
Saturn 11-03-1920 27-04-1920 
Mercury 27-04-1920 09-06-1920 
Ketu 09-06-1920 26-06-1920 
Venus 26-06-1920 15-08-1920 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 15-08-1920 30-08-1920 


Moon-Jupiter 4y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


19-09-1922 22-11-1922 
Saturn 22-11-1922 06-02-1923 
Mercury 06-02-1923 15-04-1923 
Ketu 15-04-1923 13-05-1923 
Venus = 13-05-1923 01-08-1923 
Sun 01-08-1923 25-08-1923 
25-08-1923 04-10-1923 
04-10-1923 01-11-1923 
01-11-1923 12-01-1924 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Moon-Ketu 9ylm 


Moon-Mars 2y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


30-08-1920 11-09-1920 
11-09-1920 13-10-1920 
13-10-1920 10-11-1920 
Saturn 10-11-1920 13-12-1920 
Mercury 13-12-1920 12-01-1921 
Ketu 12-01-1921 24-01-1921 
Venus 24-01-1921 28-02-1921 
Sun 28-02-1921 11-03-1921 


Moon 11-03-1921 28-03-1921 


Moon-Saturn 6ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 12-01-1924 11-04-1924 
Mercury 11-04-1924 01-07-1924 
Ketu 01-07-1924 03-08-1924 
Venus 03-08-1924 06-11-1924 
Sun 06-11-1924 05-12-1924 
05-12-1924 21-01-1925 
21-01-1925 24-02-1925 
24-02-1925 20-05-1925 
20-05-1925 04-08-1925 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Moon-Venus 9y8m 


Moon-Rahu 


Antar 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Moon-Mercury 


Antar 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Moon-Sun 


3y4m 
Beginning Ending 


28-03-1921 17-06-1921 
17-06-1921 28-08-1921 
28-08-1921 22-11-1921 
22-11-1921 06-02-1922 
06-02-1922 10-03-1922 
10-03-1922 08-06-1922 
08-06-1922 05-07-1922 
05-07-1922 19-08-1922 
19-08-1922 19-09-1922 


Ty8m 
Beginning Ending 


04-08-1925 15-10-1925 
15-10-1925 14-11-1925 
14-11-1925 07-02-1926 
07-02-1926 05-03-1926 
05-03-1926 16-04-1926 
16-04-1926 16-05-1926 
16-05-1926 31-07-1926 
31-07-1926 07-10-1926 
07-10-1926 27-12-1926 


lly3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Ketu 27-12-1926 08-01-1927 
Venus 08-01-1927 12-02-1927 
Sun 12-02-1927 23-02-1927 
23-02-1927 12-03-1927 
12-03-1927 25-03-1927 
25-03-1927 25-04-1927 
25-04-1927 23-05-1927 
Saturn 23-05-1927 25-06-1927 
Mercury 25-06-1927 25-07-1927 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Venus 25-07-1927 02-11-1927 
Sun 02-11-1927 02-12-1927 
02-12-1927 21-01-1928 
21-01-1928 25-02-1928 
25-02-1928 25-05-1928 
25-05-1928 13-08-1928 
Saturn 13-08-1928 16-11-1928 
Mercury 16-11-1928 09-02-1929 
Ketu 09-02-1929 16-03-1929 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


16-03-1929 25-03-1929 
25-03-1929 09-04-1929 
09-04-1929 20-04-1929 
20-04-1929 17-05-1929 
17-05-1929 10-06-1929 
10-06-1929 08-07-1929 
08-07-1929 03-08-1929 
03-08-1929 13-08-1929 
13-08-1929 12-09-1929 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 23 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #3 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Mars Mahadasha 12-09-1929 to 06-08-1936 


Mars-Mars 1ly9m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 12-09-1929 21-09-1929 
Rahu 21-09-1929 13-10-1929 
13-10-1929 01-11-1929 
Saturn 01-11-1929 25-11-1929 
Mercury 25-11-1929 16-12-1929 
Ketu 16-12-1929 24-12-1929 
Venus =. 24-12-1929 18-01-1930 
Sun 18-01-1930 25-01-1930 


Jupiter 


Moon — 25-01-1930 06-02-1930 


Mars-Saturn 14y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 21-01-1932 24-03-1932 
Mercury 24-03-1932 20-05-1932 
Ketu 20-05-1932 12-06-1932 
Venus =: 12-06-1932 18-08-1932 
Sun 18-08-1932 07-09-1932 
Moon 07-09-1932 10-10-1932 
Mars 10-10-1932 02-11-1932 
Rahu 02-11-1932 01-01-1933 


Jupiter 01-01-1933 23-02-1933 


Mars-Venus l6y7m 


Age: lly 9mto 18y 8m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mars-Rahu 12y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 06-02-1930 04-04-1930 
04-04-1930 24-05-1930 
24-05-1930 23-07-1930 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 23-07-1930 15-09-1930 
Ketu 15-09-1930 07-10-1930 
Venus 07-10-1930 09-12-1930 
Sun 09-12-1930 28-12-1930 
Moon = 28-12-1930 28-01-1931 
Mars 28-01-1931 19-02-1931 


Mars-Mercury 15y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 23-02-1933 15-04-1933 


Ketu 15-04-1933 06-05-1933 
Venus 06-05-1933 04-07-1933 
Sun 04-07-1933 22-07-1933 
Moon = 22-07-1933 21-08-1933 
Mars 21-08-1933 11-09-1933 
Rahu 11-09-1933 03-11-1933 
03-11-1933 21-12-1933 
21-12-1933 15-02-1934 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mars-Sun 17y9m 


Mars-Jupiter 13y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


19-02-1931 05-04-1931 
Saturn 05-04-1931 28-05-1931 
Mercury 28-05-1931 15-07-1931 
Ketu 15-07-1931 03-08-1931 
Venus 03-08-1931 28-09-1931 
Sun 28-09-1931 15-10-1931 
Moon — 15-10-1931 12-11-1931 
Mars 12-11-1931 02-12-1931 
Rahu 02-12-1931 21-01-1932 


Jupiter 


Mars-Ketu l6y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 15-02-1934 24-02-1934 
Venus 24-02-1934 20-03-1934 
Sun 20-03-1934 28-03-1934 
Moon 28-03-1934 09-04-1934 
Mars 09-04-1934 17-04-1934 
Rahu 17-04-1934 09-05-1934 
09-05-1934 29-05-1934 
Saturn 29-05-1934 21-06-1934 
Mercury 21-06-1934 12-07-1934 


Jupiter 


Mars-Moon 18ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus =: 12-07-1934 20-09-1934 
Sun 20-09-1934 11-10-1934 
Moon 11-10-1934 15-11-1934 
Mars 15-11-1934 10-12-1934 
Rahu 10-12-1934 11-02-1935 
11-02-1935 08-04-1935 
Saturn 08-04-1935 13-06-1935 
Mercury 13-06-1935 12-08-1935 
Ketu 12-08-1935 05-09-1935 


Jupiter 


Sun 05-09-1935 11-09-1935 
Moon — 11-09-1935 22-09-1935 
Mars 22-09-1935 29-09-1935 
Rahu 29-09-1935 18-10-1935 
18-10-1935 04-11-1935 
Saturn 04-11-1935 24-11-1935 
Mercury 24-11-1935 12-12-1935 
Ketu 12-12-1935 19-12-1935 
Venus =: 19-12-1935 09-01-1936 


Jupiter 


Moon = 09-01-1936 27-01-1936 
Mars 27-01-1936 08-02-1936 
Rahu 08-02-1936 10-03-1936 
10-03-1936 07-04-1936 
Saturn 07-04-1936 11-05-1936 
Mercury 11-05-1936 09-06-1936 
Ketu 09-06-1936 22-06-1936 
Venus 22-06-1936 27-07-1936 
Sun 27-07-1936 06-08-1936 


Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 24 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #4 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Rahu Mahadasha 06-08-1936 to 04-05-1954 


Rahu-Rahu 18y8m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 06-08-1936 30-12-1936 
30-12-1936 09-05-1937 
Saturn 09-05-1937 09-10-1937 
Mercury 09-10-1937 24-02-1938 
Ketu 24-02-1938 22-04-1938 
Venus 22-04-1938 01-10-1938 
Sun 01-10-1938 18-11-1938 
Moon 18-11-1938 07-02-1939 
Mars 07-02-1939 05-04-1939 


Jupiter 


Rahu-Mercury 26y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 07-06-1944 15-10-1944 


Ketu 15-10-1944 08-12-1944 
Venus 08-12-1944 10-05-1945 
Sun 10-05-1945 25-06-1945 
Moon 25-06-1945 09-09-1945 
Mars 09-09-1945 02-11-1945 
Rahu 02-11-1945 19-03-1946 
19-03-1946 20-07-1946 
20-07-1946 12-12-1946 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Rahu-Sun 33y0m 


Age: 18y 8m to 36y 5m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rahu-Jupiter 21ly4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


05-04-1939 29-07-1939 
Saturn 29-07-1939 13-12-1939 
Mercury 13-12-1939 14-04-1940 
Ketu 14-04-1940 03-06-1940 
Venus 03-06-1940 25-10-1940 
Sun 25-10-1940 07-12-1940 
Moon 07-12-1940 17-02-1941 
Mars 17-02-1941 09-04-1941 
Rahu 09-04-1941 16-08-1941 


Jupiter 


Rahu-Ketu 29y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 12-12-1946 03-01-1947 
Venus 03-01-1947 07-03-1947 
Sun 07-03-1947 26-03-1947 
Moon =. 26-03-1947 27-04-1947 
Mars 27-04-1947 19-05-1947 
Rahu 19-05-1947 14-07-1947 
14-07-1947 03-09-1947 
03-09-1947 02-11-1947 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 02-11-1947 25-12-1947 


Rahu-Moon 33yllm 


Rahu-Saturn 23y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 16-08-1941 26-01-1942 
Mercury 26-01-1942 20-06-1942 
Ketu 20-06-1942 19-08-1942 
Venus = 19-08-1942 06-02-1943 
Sun 06-02-1943 29-03-1943 
Moon = 29-03-1943 23-06-1943 
Mars 23-06-1943 21-08-1943 
Rahu 21-08-1943 22-01-1944 


Jupiter 22-01-1944 07-06-1944 


Rahu-Venus 30ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus =. 25-12-1947 22-06-1948 
Sun 22-06-1948 15-08-1948 
Moon 15-08-1948 13-11-1948 
Mars 13-11-1948 15-01-1949 
Rahu 15-01-1949 26-06-1949 
26-06-1949 17-11-1949 
Saturn 17-11-1949 07-05-1950 
Mercury 07-05-1950 07-10-1950 
Ketu 07-10-1950 09-12-1950 


Jupiter 


Rahu-Mars 35y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 09-12-1950 25-12-1950 
Moon = 25-12-1950 21-01-1951 
Mars 21-01-1951 09-02-1951 
Rahu 09-02-1951 30-03-1951 
30-03-1951 12-05-1951 
Saturn 12-05-1951 02-07-1951 
Mercury 02-07-1951 17-08-1951 
Ketu 17-08-1951 05-09-1951 
Venus 05-09-1951 29-10-1951 


Jupiter 


Moon = 29-10-1951 13-12-1951 
Mars 13-12-1951 14-01-1952 
Rahu 14-01-1952 04-04-1952 
04-04-1952 15-06-1952 
Saturn 15-06-1952 08-09-1952 
Mercury 08-09-1952 24-11-1952 
Ketu 24-11-1952 25-12-1952 
Venus 25-12-1952 25-03-1953 
Sun 25-03-1953 21-04-1953 


Jupiter 


Mars 21-04-1953 13-05-1953 
Rahu 13-05-1953 09-07-1953 
09-07-1953 28-08-1953 
Saturn 28-08-1953 27-10-1953 
Mercury 27-10-1953 20-12-1953 
Ketu 20-12-1953 11-01-1954 
Venus = 11-01-1954 15-03-1954 
Sun 15-03-1954 03-04-1954 
Moon 03-04-1954 04-05-1954 


Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 25 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #5 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Jupiter Mahadasha 04-05-1954 to 09-02-1970 


Jupiter-Jupiter 36y5m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


04-05-1954 15-08-1954 
15-08-1954 14-12-1954 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 14-12-1954 02-04-1955 
Ketu 02-04-1955 17-05-1955 
Venus = 17-05-1955 22-09-1955 
Sun 22-09-1955 30-10-1955 
Moon = 30-10-1955 02-01-1956 
Mars 02-01-1956 16-02-1956 
Rahu 16-02-1956 10-06-1956 


Jupiter-Ketu 43y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 04-03-1961 24-03-1961 


Venus 24-03-1961 19-05-1961 
Sun 19-05-1961 05-06-1961 
Moon 05-06-1961 03-07-1961 
Mars 03-07-1961 22-07-1961 
Rahu 22-07-1961 11-09-1961 
11-09-1961 25-10-1961 
25-10-1961 18-12-1961 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 18-12-1961 03-02-1962 


Jupiter-Moon 47y7m 


Age : 36y 5m to 52y 2m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Jupiter-Saturn 38y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 10-06-1956 02-11-1956 
Mercury 02-11-1956 11-03-1957 
Ketu 11-03-1957 03-05-1957 
Venus 03-05-1957 02-10-1957 
Sun 02-10-1957 17-11-1957 
Moon 17-11-1957 01-02-1958 
Mars 01-02-1958 26-03-1958 
Rahu 26-03-1958 10-08-1958 


Jupiter 10-08-1958 09-12-1958 


Jupiter-Venus 44y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 03-02-1962 13-07-1962 


Sun 13-07-1962 30-08-1962 
Moon 30-08-1962 18-11-1962 
Mars 18-11-1962 13-01-1963 
Rahu 13-01-1963 06-06-1963 
06-06-1963 12-10-1963 
Saturn 12-10-1963 12-03-1964 
Mercury 12-03-1964 26-07-1964 


Jupiter 


Ketu 26-07-1964 20-09-1964 


Jupiter-Mars 48yl1m 


Jupiter-Mercury 41y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 09-12-1958 04-04-1959 
Ketu 04-04-1959 21-05-1959 
Venus 21-05-1959 04-10-1959 
Sun 04-10-1959 14-11-1959 
Moon 14-11-1959 21-01-1960 
Mars 21-01-1960 09-03-1960 
Rahu 09-03-1960 09-07-1960 
09-07-1960 26-10-1960 
26-10-1960 04-03-1961 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Jupiter-Sun 46y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 20-09-1964 05-10-1964 
Moon = 05-10-1964 29-10-1964 
Mars 29-10-1964 14-11-1964 
Rahu 14-11-1964 28-12-1964 
28-12-1964 04-02-1965 
Saturn 04-02-1965 22-03-1965 
Mercury 22-03-1965 01-05-1965 
Ketu 01-05-1965 18-05-1965 
Venus = 18-05-1965 05-07-1965 


Jupiter 


Jupiter-Rahu 49y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 05-07-1965 14-08-1965 
Mars 14-08-1965 11-09-1965 
Rahu 11-09-1965 22-11-1965 
22-11-1965 25-01-1966 
Saturn 25-01-1966 11-04-1966 
Mercury 11-04-1966 18-06-1966 
Ketu 18-06-1966 16-07-1966 
Venus 16-07-1966 04-10-1966 
Sun 04-10-1966 28-10-1966 


Jupiter 


Mars 28-10-1966 17-11-1966 
Rahu 17-11-1966 06-01-1967 
06-01-1967 20-02-1967 
Saturn 20-02-1967 14-04-1967 
Mercury 14-04-1967 01-06-1967 
Ketu 01-06-1967 20-06-1967 
Venus 20-06-1967 15-08-1967 
Sun 15-08-1967 01-09-1967 
Moon 01-09-1967 29-09-1967 


Jupiter 


Rahu 29-09-1967 06-02-1968 
06-02-1968 31-05-1968 
Saturn 31-05-1968 15-10-1968 
Mercury 15-10-1968 14-02-1969 
Ketu 14-02-1969 06-04-1969 
Venus 06-04-1969 28-08-1969 
Sun 28-08-1969 10-10-1969 
Moon 10-10-1969 21-12-1969 
Mars 21-12-1969 09-02-1970 


Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 26 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #6 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Saturn Mahadasha 09-02-1970 to 01-11-1988 
Age : 52y 2m to/0y 11m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 
Saturn-Saturn 52y2m* Saturn-Mercury 55y2m Saturn-Ketu 57y10m 
Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 09-02-1970 31-07-1970 Mercury 27-01-1973 13-06-1973 Ketu 23-09-1975 16-10-1975 
Mercury 31-07-1970 31-12-1970 Ketu 13-06-1973 09-08-1973 Venus = 16-10-1975 22-12-1975 
Ketu 31-12-1970 04-03-1971 Venus 09-08-1973 17-01-1974 Sun 22-12-1975 11-01-1976 
Venus 04-03-1971 01-09-1971 Sun 17-01-1974 07-03-1974 Moon 11-01-1976 13-02-1976 
Sun 01-09-1971 25-10-1971 Moon = 07-03-1974 27-05-1974 Mars 13-02-1976 07-03-1976 
Moon = 25-10-1971 23-01-1972 Mars 27-05-1974 22-07-1974 Rahu 07-03-1976 06-05-1976 
Mars 23-01-1972 26-03-1972 Rahu 22-07-1974 15-12-1974 Jupiter 06-05-1976 28-06-1976 
Rahu 26-03-1972 05-09-1972 Jupiter 15-12-1974 23-04-1975 Saturn 28-06-1976 31-08-1976 
Jupiter 05-09-1972 27-01-1973 Saturn 23-04-1975 23-09-1975 Mercury 31-08-1976 26-10-1976 


Saturn-Venus 58yl1m Saturn-Sun 62y0m Saturn-Moon 62yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 26-10-1976 04-05-1977 Sun 10-12-1979 27-12-1979 Moon 16-11-1980 03-01-1981 
Sun 04-05-1977 30-06-1977 Moon = 27-12-1979 25-01-1980 Mars 03-01-1981 05-02-1981 
Moon = 30-06-1977 03-10-1977 Mars 25-01-1980 14-02-1980 Rahu 05-02-1981 01-05-1981 
Mars 03-10-1977 09-12-1977 Rahu 14-02-1980 05-04-1980 Jupiter 01-05-1981 16-07-1981 
Rahu 09-12-1977 29-05-1978 Jupiter 05-04-1980 21-05-1980 Saturn 16-07-1981 15-10-1981 
Jupiter 29-05-1978 28-10-1978 Saturn 21-05-1980 14-07-1980 Mercury 15-10-1981 03-01-1982 
Saturn 28-10-1978 26-04-1979 Mercury 14-07-1980 31-08-1980 Ketu 03-01-1982 06-02-1982 
Mercury 26-04-1979 05-10-1979 Ketu 31-08-1980 20-09-1980 Venus 06-02-1982 12-05-1982 
Ketu 05-10-1979 10-12-1979 Venus 20-09-1980 16-11-1980 Sun 12-05-1982 09-06-1982 


Saturn-Mars 64y6m Saturn-Rahu 65y7m Saturn-Jupiter 68y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 09-06-1982 02-07-1982 Rahu 13-07-1983 14-12-1983 Jupiter 04-05-1986 03-09-1986 
Rahu 02-07-1982 31-08-1982 Jupiter 14-12-1983 29-04-1984 Saturn 03-09-1986 25-01-1987 
Jupiter 31-08-1982 24-10-1982 Saturn 29-04-1984 08-10-1984 Mercury 25-01-1987 03-06-1987 
Saturn 24-10-1982 26-12-1982 Mercury 08-10-1984 03-03-1985 Ketu 03-06-1987 27-07-1987 
Mercury 26-12-1982 20-02-1983 Ketu 03-03-1985 02-05-1985 Venus =. 27-07-1987 26-12-1987 
Ketu 20-02-1983 15-03-1983 Venus 02-05-1985 20-10-1985 Sun 26-12-1987 09-02-1988 
Venus —- 15-03-1983 21-05-1983 Sun 20-10-1985 10-12-1985 Moon — 09-02-1988 25-04-1988 
Sun 21-05-1983 10-06-1983 Moon 10-12-1985 05-03-1986 Mars 25-04-1988 17-06-1988 
Moon 10-06-1983 13-07-1983 Mars 05-03-1986 04-05-1986 Rahu 17-06-1988 01-11-1988 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 27 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #7 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Mercury Mahadasha 01-11-1988 to 04-08-2005 
Age : 70y 11m to87y 8m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 
Mercury-Mercury 70yl1m* Mercury-Ketu 73y3m Mercury-Venus 74y3m 
Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 01-11-1988 04-03-1989 Ketu 18-03-1991 08-04-1991 Venus 09-03-1992 26-08-1992 
Ketu 04-03-1989 24-04-1989 Venus 08-04-1991 07-06-1991 Sun 26-08-1992 16-10-1992 
Venus 24-04-1989 15-09-1989 Sun 07-06-1991 24-06-1991 Moon 16-10-1992 09-01-1993 
Sun 15-09-1989 28-10-1989 Moon = 24-06-1991 24-07-1991 Mars 09-01-1993 10-03-1993 
Moon 28-10-1989 09-01-1990 Mars 24-07-1991 14-08-1991 Rahu 10-03-1993 10-08-1993 
Mars 09-01-1990 28-02-1990 Rahu 14-08-1991 06-10-1991 Jupiter 10-08-1993 24-12-1993 
Rahu 28-02-1990 08-07-1990 Jupiter 06-10-1991 23-11-1991 Saturn 24-12-1993 03-06-1994 
Jupiter 08-07-1990 01-11-1990 Saturn 23-11-1991 19-01-1992 Mercury 03-06-1994 26-10-1994 
Saturn 01-11-1990 18-03-1991 Mercury 19-01-1992 09-03-1992 Ketu 26-10-1994 24-12-1994 


Mercury-Sun 77y1m Mercury-Moon T7y11m Mercury-Mars 79y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 24-12-1994 08-01-1995 Moon 26-10-1995 08-12-1995 Mars 19-03-1997 09-04-1997 
Moon 08-01-1995 03-02-1995 Mars 08-12-1995 06-01-1996 Rahu 09-04-1997 02-06-1997 
Mars 03-02-1995 21-02-1995 Rahu 06-01-1996 23-03-1996 Jupiter 02-06-1997 19-07-1997 
Rahu 21-02-1995 08-04-1995 Jupiter 23-03-1996 30-05-1996 Saturn 19-07-1997 14-09-1997 
Jupiter 08-04-1995 19-05-1995 Saturn 30-05-1996 19-08-1996 Mercury 14-09-1997 03-11-1997 
Saturn 19-05-1995 06-07-1995 Mercury 19-08-1996 30-10-1996 Ketu 03-11-1997 24-11-1997 
Mercury 06-07-1995 18-08-1995 Ketu 30-10-1996 29-11-1996 Venus = 24-11-1997 23-01-1998 
Ketu 18-08-1995 05-09-1995 Venus =. 29-11-1996 22-02-1997 Sun 23-01-1998 09-02-1998 
Venus 05-09-1995 26-10-1995 Sun 22-02-1997 19-03-1997 Moon — 09-02-1998 11-03-1998 


Mercury-Rahu 80y3m Mercury-Jupiter 82y9m Mercury-Saturn 85y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 11-03-1998 27-07-1998 Jupiter 14-09-2000 01-01-2001 Saturn 09-12-2002 12-05-2003 
Jupiter 27-07-1998 26-11-1998 Saturn 01-01-2001 10-05-2001 Mercury 12-05-2003 26-09-2003 
Saturn 26-11-1998 21-04-1999 Mercury 10-05-2001 03-09-2001 Ketu 26-09-2003 21-11-2003 
Mercury 21-04-1999 29-08-1999 Ketu 03-09-2001 20-10-2001 Venus 21-11-2003 01-05-2004 
Ketu 29-08-1999 21-10-1999 Venus 20-10-2001 05-03-2002 Sun 01-05-2004 18-06-2004 
Venus 21-10-1999 22-03-2000 Sun 05-03-2002 15-04-2002 Moon 18-06-2004 07-09-2004 
Sun 22-03-2000 07-05-2000 Moon 15-04-2002 22-06-2002 Mars 07-09-2004 03-11-2004 
Moon 07-05-2000 23-07-2000 Mars 22-06-2002 09-08-2002 Rahu 03-11-2004 28-03-2005 
Mars 23-07-2000 14-09-2000 Rahu 09-08-2002 09-12-2002 Jupiter 28-03-2005 04-08-2005 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 28 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #8 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Ketu Mahadasha 04-08-2005 to 28-06-2012 


Ketu-Ketu 87y8m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 04-08-2005 13-08-2005 
Venus = 13-08-2005 06-09-2005 
Sun 06-09-2005 14-09-2005 
Moon 14-09-2005 26-09-2005 
Mars 26-09-2005 04-10-2005 
Rahu 04-10-2005 26-10-2005 
26-10-2005 15-11-2005 
15-11-2005 08-12-2005 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 08-12-2005 29-12-2005 


Ketu-Moon 89y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon — 28-06-2007 16-07-2007 


Mars 16-07-2007 28-07-2007 
Rahu 28-07-2007 28-08-2007 
28-08-2007 25-09-2007 
Saturn 25-09-2007 29-10-2007 
Mercury 29-10-2007 27-11-2007 
Ketu 27-11-2007 10-12-2007 
Venus 10-12-2007 14-01-2008 


Jupiter 


Sun 14-01-2008 24-01-2008 


Ketu-Jupiter 9ly7m 


Age: 87y 8mto 94y 7m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Ketu-Venus 88ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 29-12-2005 09-03-2006 
Sun 09-03-2006 30-03-2006 
Moon 30-03-2006 04-05-2006 
Mars 04-05-2006 29-05-2006 
Rahu 29-05-2006 31-07-2006 
31-07-2006 25-09-2006 
Saturn 25-09-2006 30-11-2006 
Mercury 30-11-2006 29-01-2007 


Jupiter 


Ketu 29-01-2007 22-02-2007 


Ketu-Mars 90y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 24-01-2008 02-02-2008 


Rahu 02-02-2008 24-02-2008 
24-02-2008 14-03-2008 
Saturn 14-03-2008 07-04-2008 
Mercury 07-04-2008 28-04-2008 
Ketu 28-04-2008 06-05-2008 
Venus 06-05-2008 31-05-2008 
Sun 31-05-2008 07-06-2008 


Jupiter 


Moon 07-06-2008 19-06-2008 


Ketu-Saturn 92y6m 


Ketu-Sun 89y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 22-02-2007 28-02-2007 
Moon ~— 28-02-2007 11-03-2007 
Mars 11-03-2007 18-03-2007 
Rahu 18-03-2007 06-04-2007 
06-04-2007 23-04-2007 
Saturn 23-04-2007 13-05-2007 
Mercury 13-05-2007 31-05-2007 
Ketu 31-05-2007 07-06-2007 
Venus 07-06-2007 28-06-2007 


Jupiter 


Ketu-Rahu 90y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 19-06-2008 15-08-2008 
15-08-2008 04-10-2008 
Saturn 04-10-2008 03-12-2008 
Mercury 03-12-2008 26-01-2009 
Ketu 26-01-2009 17-02-2009 
Venus =: 17-02-2009 21-04-2009 
Sun 21-04-2009 10-05-2009 
Moon 10-05-2009 10-06-2009 
Mars 10-06-2009 02-07-2009 


Jupiter 


Ketu-Mercury 93y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


02-07-2009 16-08-2009 
Saturn 16-08-2009 08-10-2009 
Mercury 08-10-2009 25-11-2009 
Ketu 25-11-2009 14-12-2009 
Venus 14-12-2009 08-02-2010 
Sun 08-02-2010 25-02-2010 
Moon 25-02-2010 25-03-2010 
Mars 25-03-2010 14-04-2010 
Rahu 14-04-2010 03-06-2010 


Jupiter 


Saturn 03-06-2010 05-08-2010 
Mercury 05-08-2010 01-10-2010 
Ketu 01-10-2010 24-10-2010 
Venus 24-10-2010 30-12-2010 
Sun 30-12-2010 19-01-2011 
Moon — 19-01-2011 21-02-2011 
Mars 21-02-2011 16-03-2011 
Rahu 16-03-2011 15-05-2011 


Jupiter 15-05-2011 07-07-2011 


Mercury 07-07-2011 27-08-2011 
Ketu 27-08-2011 17-09-2011 
Venus 17-09-2011 15-11-2011 
Sun 15-11-2011 03-12-2011 
Moon = 03-12-2011 02-01-2012 
Mars 02-01-2012 23-01-2012 
Rahu 23-01-2012 16-03-2012 
16-03-2012 03-05-2012 
03-05-2012 28-06-2012 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 29 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #9 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Venus Mahadasha 28-06-2012 to 15-03-2032 
Age : 94y 7m to 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Venus-Venus 94y 7m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 28-06-2012 14-01-2013 
Sun 14-01-2013 15-03-2013 
15-03-2013 23-06-2013 
23-06-2013 01-09-2013 
01-09-2013 28-02-2014 
28-02-2014 07-08-2014 
Saturn 07-08-2014 13-02-2015 
Mercury 13-02-2015 02-08-2015 
Ketu 02-08-2015 11-10-2015 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Venus-Mars 100y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


28-05-2018 22-06-2018 
22-06-2018 24-08-2018 
24-08-2018 19-10-2018 
Saturn 19-10-2018 24-12-2018 
Mercury 24-12-2018 22-02-2019 
Ketu 22-02-2019 18-03-2019 
Venus =: 18-03-2019 27-05-2019 
Sun 27-05-2019 17-06-2019 


Moon 17-06-2019 22-07-2019 


Venus-Saturn 107y3m 


Venus-Sun 


Antar 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Venus-Rahu 


Antar 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Venus-Mercury 


114y 3m 


97y10m 
Beginning Ending 


11-10-2015 29-10-2015 
29-10-2015 28-11-2015 
28-11-2015 19-12-2015 
19-12-2015 11-02-2016 
11-02-2016 30-03-2016 
30-03-2016 26-05-2016 
26-05-2016 16-07-2016 
16-07-2016 06-08-2016 
06-08-2016 05-10-2016 


10ly8m 
Beginning Ending 


22-07-2019 31-12-2019 
31-12-2019 23-05-2020 
23-05-2020 10-11-2020 
10-11-2020 12-04-2021 
12-04-2021 14-06-2021 
14-06-2021 11-12-2021 
11-12-2021 03-02-2022 
03-02-2022 04-05-2022 
04-05-2022 06-07-2022 


110y4m 


Venus-Moon 98y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


05-10-2016 24-11-2016 
24-11-2016 29-12-2016 
29-12-2016 29-03-2017 
29-03-2017 17-06-2017 
Saturn 17-06-2017 20-09-2017 
Mercury 20-09-2017 14-12-2017 
Ketu 14-12-2017 18-01-2018 
Venus = 18-01-2018 28-04-2018 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 28-04-2018 28-05-2018 


Venus-Jupiter 104y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


06-07-2022 11-11-2022 
Saturn 11-11-2022 12-04-2023 
Mercury 12-04-2023 26-08-2023 
Ketu 26-08-2023 21-10-2023 
Venus 21-10-2023 29-03-2024 
Sun 29-03-2024 16-05-2024 
16-05-2024 04-08-2024 
04-08-2024 29-09-2024 
29-09-2024 20-02-2025 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Venus-Ketu 113y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 20-02-2025 20-08-2025 
Mercury 20-08-2025 28-01-2026 
Ketu 28-01-2026 05-04-2026 
Venus 05-04-2026 12-10-2026 
Sun 12-10-2026 08-12-2026 
08-12-2026 13-03-2027 
13-03-2027 18-05-2027 
18-05-2027 05-11-2027 
05-11-2027 05-04-2028 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


05-04-2028 28-08-2028 
28-08-2028 26-10-2028 
26-10-2028 14-04-2029 
14-04-2029 04-06-2029 
04-06-2029 28-08-2029 
28-08-2029 27-10-2029 
27-10-2029 29-03-2030 
29-03-2030 12-08-2030 
12-08-2030 20-01-2031 


Ketu 20-01-2031 14-02-2031 
Venus = 14-02-2031 25-04-2031 
Sun 25-04-2031 16-05-2031 
16-05-2031 20-06-2031 
20-06-2031 14-07-2031 
14-07-2031 15-09-2031 
15-09-2031 10-11-2031 
Saturn 10-11-2031 16-01-2032 
Mercury 16-01-2032 15-03-2032 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 30 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #1 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Ket-Mer-Rah 


Ket-Mer-Jup 


Ket-Mer-Sat 


Ven-Ven-Ven 


23-01-2012 
16-03-2012 


23-01-2012 00:15 
31-01-2012 01:02 
07-02-2012 04:23 
15-02-2012 15:53 
23-02-2012 05:57 
26-02-2012 08:55 
06-03-2012 07:07 
08-03-2012 23:23 
13-03-2012 10:29 


Beginning 
Ending 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 


Ven-Ven-Sun 


14-01-2013 
15-03-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


16-03-2012 
03-05-2012 


16-03-2012 13:27 
22-03-2012 21:46 
30-03-2012 10:39 
06-04-2012 04:29 
08-04-2012 23:08 
16-04-2012 21:32 
19-04-2012 06:39 
23-04-2012 05:51 
26-04-2012 00:29 


Beginning 
Ending 


Jup 
Sat 


Ven-Ven-Mon 


15-03-2013 
23-06-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


03-05-2012 
28-06-2012 


03-05-2012 03:51 
12-05-2012 02:38 
20-05-2012 02:50 
23-05-2012 09:58 
01-06-2012 20:04 
04-06-2012 15:53 
09-06-2012 08:56 
12-06-2012 16:05 
21-06-2012 03:34 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sat 


Ven-Ven-Mar 


23-06-2013 
01-09-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


28-06-2012 
14-01-2013 


28-06-2012 16:27 
01-08-2012 00:27 
11-08-2012 00:27 
27-08-2012 16:27 
08-09-2012 08:27 
08-10-2012 08:27 
04-11-2012 00:27 
05-12-2012 16:27 
03-01-2013 00:27 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ven-Ven-Rah 


01-09-2013 
28-02-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


14-01-2013 16:27 
17-01-2013 16:27 
22-01-2013 16:27 
26-01-2013 04:27 
04-02-2013 04:27 
12-02-2013 04:27 
21-02-2013 16:27 
02-03-2013 04:27 
05-03-2013 16:27 


Sun 
Mon 


15-03-2013 16:27 
24-03-2013 00:27 
29-03-2013 20:27 
13-04-2013 20:27 
27-04-2013 04:27 
13-05-2013 00:27 
27-05-2013 04:27 
02-06-2013 00:27 
18-06-2013 16:27 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


23-06-2013 16:27 
27-06-2013 18:27 
08-07-2013 06:27 
17-07-2013 14:27 
28-07-2013 16:27 
07-08-2013 14:27 
11-08-2013 16:27 
23-08-2013 08:27 
26-08-2013 20:27 


Rah 
Jup 


01-09-2013 16:27 
28-09-2013 16:27 
22-10-2013 16:27 
20-11-2013 04:27 
15-12-2013 16:27 
26-12-2013 04:27 
25-01-2014 04:27 
03-02-2014 04:27 
18-02-2014 04:27 


Ven-Ven-Jup 


Ven-Ven-Sat 


Ven-Ven-Mer 


Ven-Ven-Ket 


28-02-2014 
07-08-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


07-08-2014 
13-02-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


13-02-2015 
02-08-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


02-08-2015 
11-10-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


28-02-2014 16:27 
22-03-2014 00:27 
16-04-2014 08:27 
09-05-2014 00:27 
18-05-2014 08:27 
14-06-2014 00:27 
22-06-2014 00:27 
05-07-2014 08:27 
14-07-2014 16:27 


Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 


Sat 07-08-2014 16:27 
06-09-2014 18:27 
03-10-2014 16:27 
14-10-2014 18:27 
15-11-2014 10:27 
24-11-2014 22:27 
10-12-2014 18:27 
21-12-2014 20:27 
19-01-2015 08:27 


13-02-2015 16:27 
09-03-2015 18:27 
19-03-2015 16:27 
17-04-2015 00:27 
25-04-2015 12:27 
09-05-2015 16:27 
19-05-2015 14:27 
14-06-2015 02:27 
06-07-2015 18:27 


02-08-2015 16:27 
06-08-2015 18:27 
18-08-2015 10:27 
21-08-2015 22:27 
27-08-2015 18:27 
31-08-2015 20:27 
11-09-2015 08:27 
20-09-2015 16:27 
01-10-2015 18:27 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 ¢ 31 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #2 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Ven-Sun-Sun 


Ven-Sun-Mon 


Ven-Sun-Mar 


Ven-Sun-Rah 


11-10-2015 
29-10-2015 


11-10-2015 16:27 
12-10-2015 14:03 
14-10-2015 02:03 
15-10-2015 03:15 
17-10-2015 20:03 
20-10-2015 05:39 
23-10-2015 02:03 
25-10-2015 15:15 
26-10-2015 16:27 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 


Ven-Sun-Jup 


11-02-2016 
30-03-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


29-10-2015 
28-11-2015 


29-10-2015 16:27 
01-11-2015 04:27 
02-11-2015 22:27 
07-11-2015 10:27 
11-11-2015 10:27 
16-11-2015 04:27 
20-11-2015 10:27 
22-11-2015 04:27 
27-11-2015 04:27 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ven-Sun-Sat 


30-03-2016 
26-05-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


28-11-2015 
19-12-2015 


28-11-2015 16:27 
29-11-2015 21:51 
03-12-2015 01:27 
05-12-2015 20:39 
09-12-2015 04:27 
12-12-2015 03:51 
13-12-2015 09:15 
16-12-2015 21:15 
17-12-2015 22:27 


Beginning 
Ending 
Mar 


Jup 


Ven-Sun-Mer 


26-05-2016 
16-07-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


19-12-2015 
11-02-2016 


19-12-2015 16:27 
27-12-2015 18:51 
03-01-2016 23:39 
12-01-2016 12:51 
20-01-2016 04:27 
23-01-2016 08:03 
01-02-2016 08:03 
04-02-2016 00:51 
08-02-2016 12:51 


Beginning 
Ending 
Rah 
Jup 


Ven-Sun-Ket 


16-07-2016 
06-08-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


11-02-2016 16:27 
18-02-2016 02:03 
25-02-2016 16:27 
03-03-2016 11:39 
06-03-2016 06:51 
14-03-2016 06:51 
16-03-2016 16:27 
20-03-2016 16:27 
23-03-2016 11:39 


Jup 
Sat 


Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


30-03-2016 16:27 
08-04-2016 17:03 
16-04-2016 18:51 
20-04-2016 02:39 
29-04-2016 14:39 
02-05-2016 11:03 
07-05-2016 05:03 
10-05-2016 12:51 
19-05-2016 02:03 


26-05-2016 16:27 
02-06-2016 21:51 
05-06-2016 21:15 
14-06-2016 09:15 
16-06-2016 22:27 
21-06-2016 04:27 
24-06-2016 03:51 
01-07-2016 19:27 
08-07-2016 14:39 


16-07-2016 16:27 
17-07-2016 21:51 
21-07-2016 09:51 
22-07-2016 11:03 
24-07-2016 05:03 
25-07-2016 10:27 
28-07-2016 14:03 
31-07-2016 09:15 
03-08-2016 17:03 


Ven-Sun-Ven 


Ven-Mon-Mon 


Ven-Mon-Mar 


Ven-Mon-Rah 


06-08-2016 
05-10-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


05-10-2016 
24-11-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


24-11-2016 
29-12-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


29-12-2016 
29-03-2017 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


06-08-2016 16:27 
16-08-2016 16:27 
19-08-2016 16:27 
24-08-2016 16:27 
28-08-2016 04:27 
06-09-2016 04:27 
14-09-2016 04:27 
23-09-2016 16:27 
02-10-2016 04:27 


Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 


05-10-2016 16:27 
09-10-2016 20:27 
12-10-2016 18:27 
20-10-2016 06:27 
26-10-2016 22:27 
03-11-2016 20:27 
10-11-2016 22:27 
13-11-2016 20:27 
22-11-2016 04:27 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


24-11-2016 16:27 
26-11-2016 17:27 
01-12-2016 23:27 
06-12-2016 15:27 
12-12-2016 04:27 
17-12-2016 03:27 
19-12-2016 04:27 
25-12-2016 00:27 
26-12-2016 18:27 


Rah 
Jup 
Sat 


29-12-2016 16:27 
12-01-2017 04:27 
24-01-2017 04:27 
07-02-2017 10:27 
20-02-2017 04:27 
25-02-2017 10:27 
12-03-2017 10:27 
16-03-2017 22:27 
24-03-2017 10:27 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 * 32 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #3 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Ven-Mon-Jup 


Ven-Mon-Sat 


Ven-Mon-Mer 


Ven-Mon-Ket 


29-03-2017 
17-06-2017 


29-03-2017 16:27 
09-04-2017 08:27 
22-04-2017 00:27 
03-05-2017 08:27 
08-05-2017 00:27 
21-05-2017 08:27 
25-05-2017 08:27 
01-06-2017 00:27 
05-06-2017 16:27 


Beginning 
Ending 
Jup 
Sat 


Ven-Mon-Ven 


18-01-2018 
28-04-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


17-06-2017 
20-09-2017 


17-06-2017 16:27 
02-07-2017 17:27 
16-07-2017 04:27 
21-07-2017 17:27 
06-08-2017 13:27 
11-08-2017 07:27 
19-08-2017 05:27 
24-08-2017 18:27 
08-09-2017 00:27 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sat 


Ven-Mon-Sun 


28-04-2018 
28-05-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


20-09-2017 
14-12-2017 


20-09-2017 16:27 
02-10-2017 17:27 
07-10-2017 16:27 
21-10-2017 20:27 
26-10-2017 02:27 
02-11-2017 04:27 
07-11-2017 03:27 
19-11-2017 21:27 
01-12-2017 05:27 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ven-Mar-Mar 


28-05-2018 
22-06-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


14-12-2017 
18-01-2018 


14-12-2017 16:27 
16-12-2017 17:27 
22-12-2017 13:27 
24-12-2017 07:27 
27-12-2017 05:27 
29-12-2017 06:27 
03-01-2018 12:27 
08-01-2018 04:27 
13-01-2018 17:27 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ven-Mar-Rah 


22-06-2018 
24-08-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


18-01-2018 16:27 
04-02-2018 08:27 
09-02-2018 08:27 
17-02-2018 16:27 
23-02-2018 12:27 
10-03-2018 12:27 
23-03-2018 20:27 
08-04-2018 16:27 
22-04-2018 20:27 


28-04-2018 16:27 
30-04-2018 04:27 
02-05-2018 16:27 
04-05-2018 10:27 
08-05-2018 22:27 
12-05-2018 22:27 
17-05-2018 16:27 
21-05-2018 22:27 
23-05-2018 16:27 


Sun 
Mon 
Mar 


Jup 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


28-05-2018 16:27 
30-05-2018 02:45 
02-06-2018 18:57 
06-06-2018 01:21 
09-06-2018 22:27 
13-06-2018 09:45 
14-06-2018 20:03 
18-06-2018 22:03 
20-06-2018 03:27 


Rah 
Jup 


22-06-2018 04:27 
01-07-2018 15:15 
10-07-2018 00:51 
20-07-2018 00:15 
28-07-2018 22:27 
01-08-2018 14:39 
12-08-2018 02:39 
15-08-2018 06:15 
20-08-2018 12:15 


Ven-Mar-Jup 


Ven-Mar-Sat 


Ven-Mar-Mer 


Ven-Mar-Ket 


24-08-2018 
19-10-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


19-10-2018 
24-12-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


24-12-2018 
22-02-2019 


Beginning 
Ending 


22-02-2019 
18-03-2019 


Beginning 
Ending 


24-08-2018 04:27 
31-08-2018 15:39 
09-09-2018 12:27 
17-09-2018 10:51 
20-09-2018 17:15 
30-09-2018 01:15 
02-10-2018 20:27 
07-10-2018 12:27 
10-10-2018 18:51 


Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 


Sat 19-10-2018 04:27 
29-10-2018 17:09 
08-11-2018 03:15 
12-11-2018 00:21 
23-11-2018 02:21 
26-11-2018 10:09 
01-12-2018 23:09 
05-12-2018 20:15 
15-12-2018 19:39 


24-12-2018 16:27 
02-01-2019 02:45 
05-01-2019 14:03 
15-01-2019 12:03 
18-01-2019 11:27 
23-01-2019 10:27 
26-01-2019 21:45 
04-02-2019 19:57 
12-02-2019 18:21 


22-02-2019 04:27 
23-02-2019 14:45 
27-02-2019 16:45 
28-02-2019 22:09 
02-03-2019 23:09 
04-03-2019 09:27 
08-03-2019 01:39 
11-03-2019 08:03 
15-03-2019 05:09 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 33 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Ashtottari MD and AD 


Ashtottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Saturn (10y) 
From 0 yrs. to Sy2m 


Jupiter (19y) 
From 5y2mto 23yllm 


: Saturn 5y 2m 11d 
: Sa-Ve-Me-Me-Ve 


Rahu (12y) 
From 23yl1m to 35y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn - 
Jupiter - 
Rahu - 
Venus 19-11-1917 - 18-11-1918 
Sun 18-11-1918 - 06-06-1919 
Moon 06-06-1919 - 18-10-1920 
Mars 18-10-1920 - 12-07-1921 
Mercury] 2-07-1921 - 30-01-1923 


Jupiter 30-01-1923 - 17-05-1926 
Rahu = 17-05-1926 - 15-06-1928 
Venus 15-06-1928 - 05-02-1932 
Sun 05-02-1932 - 19-02-1933 
Moon 19-02-1933 - 27-09-1935 
Mars 27-09-1935 - 15-02-1937 
Mercuryl1 5-02-1937 - 27-01-1940 
Saturn 27-01-1940 - 22-10-1941 


Rahu 22-10-1941 - 14-02-1943 
Venus 14-02-1943 - 03-06-1945 
Sun 03-06-1945 - 29-01-1946 
Moon 29-01-1946 - 21-09-1947 
Mars 21-09-1947 - 06-08-1948 
Mercury06-08-1948 - 17-06-1950 
Saturn 17-06-1950 - 22-07-1951 
Jupiter 22-07-1951 - 20-08-1953 


Venus (21y) 
From 35y9m to S6y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 20-08-1953 - 29-08-1957 


Sun = 29-08-1957 - 23-10-1958 
Moon 23-10-1958 - 07-09-1961 
Mars 07-09-1961 - 21-03-1963 
Mercury2 1-03-1963 - 23-06-1966 
Saturn 23-06-1966 - 23-05-1968 
Jupiter 23-05-1968 - 13-01-1972 


Rahu = 13-01-1972 - 02-05-1974 


Sun (6y) 
From 56y5m to 62y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 02-05-1974 - 30-08-1974 


Moon 30-08-1974 - 26-06-1975 
Mars 26-06-1975 - 03-12-1975 
Mercury03-12-1975 - 07-11-1976 
Saturn 07-11-1976 - 26-05-1977 
Jupiter 26-05-1977 - 10-06-1978 
Rahu 10-06-1978 - 05-02-1979 


Venus 05-02-1979 - 31-03-1980 


Moon (15y) 
From 62y4m to 77ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 31-03-1980 - 20-04-1982 
Mars 20-04-1982 - 25-05-1983 
Mercury25-05-1983 - 21-09-1985 
Saturn 21-09-1985 - 03-02-1987 
Jupiter 03-02-1987 - 10-09-1989 
Rahu 10-09-1989 - 03-05-1991 
Venus 03-05-1991 - 18-03-1994 
Sun 18-03-1994 - 12-01-1995 


Except in Lagna, Rahu in Kendra or Trikona from Lagna lord.. Birth during day-time in Krishna Paksha or night-time in Shukla Paksha. 


Mars (8y) 
From 77ylmto 85y0m 


Mercury (17y) 
From 85y0m to 101ly9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 12-01-1995 - 13-08-1995 
Mercury] 3-08-1995 - 08-11-1996 
Saturn 08-11-1996 - 02-08-1997 
Jupiter 02-08-1997 - 22-12-1998 
Rahu = 22-12-1998 - 07-11-1999 
Venus 07-11-1999 - 20-05-2001 
Sun 20-05-2001 - 27-10-2001 
Moon 27-10-2001 - 01-12-2002 


Mercury01-12-2002 - 21-07-2005 
Saturn 21-07-2005 - 08-02-2007 
Jupiter 08-02-2007 - 19-01-2010 
Rahu 19-01-2010 - 30-11-2011 
Venus 30-11-2011 - 04-03-2015 
Sun 04-03-2015 - 07-02-2016 
Moon 07-02-2016 - 06-06-2018 
Mars 06-06-2018 - 03-09-2019 


*Condition of Applicability of Ashtottari Dasha : 


In your horoscope Ashtottari dasha does apply. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 34 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Sat-Ven 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #1 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sat-Sun 


Sat-Mon 


Sat-Mar 


Sat-Mer 


Begin 19-11-1917 
End 18-11-1918 


Begin 18-11-1918 
End 06-06-1919 


Begin 06-06-1919 
18-10-1920 


Begin 18-10-1920 
12-07-1921 


Begin 12-07-1921 
30-01-1923 


19-11-1917 
25-02-1918 
01-05-1918 
01-09-1918 


Sun =‘ 18-11-1918 
Mon 29-11-1918 
27-12-1918 
11-01-1919 
11-02-1919 
02-03-1919 
06-04-1919 
28-04-1919 


06-06-1919 
15-08-1919 
21-09-1919 
08-12-1919 
24-01-1920 
21-04-1920 
15-06-1920 
20-09-1920 


18-10-1920 
07-11-1920 
19-12-1920 
13-01-1921 
01-03-1921 
30-03-1921 
21-05-1921 
05-06-1921 


12-07-1921 
09-10-1921 
01-12-1921 
10-03-1922 
12-05-1922 
30-08-1922 
01-10-1922 
19-12-1922 


Jup-Jup 


Jup-Rah 


Jup-Ven 


Jup-Sun 


Jup-Mon 


Begin 30-01-1923 
17-05-1926 


30-01-1923 
29-08-1923 
10-01-1924 
31-08-1924 
06-11-1924 
22-04-1925, 
20-07-1925 
25-01-1926 


Begin 17-05-1926 
15-06-1928 


17-05-1926 
09-08-1926 
04-01-1927 
15-02-1927 
01-06-1927 
27-07-1927 
24-11-1927 
02-02-1928 


Begin 15-06-1928 
05-02-1932 


15-06-1928 
28-02-1929 
13-05-1929 
14-11-1929 
21-02-1930 
18-09-1930 
19-01-1931 
10-09-1931 


Begin 05-02-1932 
19-02-1933 


05-02-1932 
26-02-1932 
19-04-1932 
17-05-1932 
16-07-1932 
20-08-1932 
26-10-1932 
07-12-1932 


Begin 19-02-1933 
27-09-1935 


19-02-1933 
01-07-1933 
09-09-1933 
06-02-1934 
05-05-1934 
19-10-1934 
01-02-1935 
05-08-1935 


Jup-Mar 


Jup-Mer 


Jup-Sat 


Rah-Rah 


Rah-Ven 


Begin 27-09-1935 
15-02-1937 


27-09-1935 
03-11-1935 
22-01-1936 
09-03-1936 
06-06-1936 
01-08-1936 
08-11-1936 
06-12-1936 


Begin 15-02-1937 
27-01-1940 


15-02-1937 
03-08-1937 
11-11-1937 
19-05-1938 
16-09-1938 
13-04-1939 
12-06-1939 
08-11-1939 


Begin 27-01-1940 
22-10-1941 


27-01-1940 
26-03-1940 
15-07-1940 
24-09-1940 
25-01-1941 
01-03-1941 
28-05-1941 
14-07-1941 


Begin 22-10-1941 
14-02-1943 


22-10-1941 
14-12-1941 
17-03-1942 
13-04-1942 
19-06-1942 
24-07-1942 
08-10-1942 
21-11-1942 


Begin 14-02-1943 
03-06-1945 


14-02-1943 
27-07-1943 
12-09-1943 
06-01-1944 
08-03-1944 
19-07-1944 
04-10-1944 
01-03-1945 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 35 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #2 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Rah-Sun Rah-Mon Rah-Mar Rah-Mer Rah-Sat 
Begin 03-06-1945 Begin 29-01-1946 Begin 21-09-1947 Begin 06-08-1948 Begin 17-06-1950 
End 29-01-1946 End 21-09-1947 06-08-1948 17-06-1950 End 22-07-1951 


Sun 03-06-1945 29-01-1946 21-09-1947 06-08-1948 — Sat 17-06-1950 
Mon 16-06-1945 22-04-1946 14-10-1947 21-11-1948  Jup 24-07-1950 
19-07-1945 05-06-1946 04-12-1947 23-01-1949 Rah 02-10-1950 
06-08-1945 08-09-1946 02-01-1948 22-05-1949 Ven = 15-11-1950 
13-09-1945, 02-11-1946 28-02-1948 06-08-1949 Sun 01-02-1951 
05-10-1945 16-02-1947 03-04-1948 16-12-1949 23-02-1951 
16-11-1945 24-04-1947 04-06-1948 23-01-1950 20-04-1951 
13-12-1945 18-08-1947 22-06-1948 27-04-1950 20-05-1951 


Rah-Jup Ven-Ven Ven-Sun Ven-Mon Ven-Mar 
Begin 22-07-1951 Begin 20-08-1953 Begin 29-08-1957 Begin 23-10-1958 Begin 07-09-1961 
20-08-1953 29-08-1957 23-10-1958 07-09-1961 21-03-1963 


22-07-1951 20-08-1953 29-08-1957 23-10-1958 07-09-1961 
02-12-1951 01-06-1954 21-09-1957 17-03-1959 18-10-1961 
25-02-1952 22-08-1954 18-11-1957 03-06-1959 14-01-1962 
21-07-1952 14-03-1955 19-12-1957 15-11-1959 07-03-1962 
02-09-1952 01-07-1955 23-02-1958 21-02-1960 14-06-1962 
16-12-1952 17-02-1956 03-04-1958 23-08-1960 15-08-1962 
11-02-1953 03-07-1956 16-06-1958 18-12-1960 02-12-1962 
10-06-1953 18-03-1957 02-08-1958 10-07-1961 02-01-1963 


Ven-Mer Ven-Sat Ven -Jup Ven-Rah Sun-Sun 


Begin 21-03-1963 Begin 23-06-1966 Begin 23-05-1968 Begin 13-01-1972 Begin 02-05-1974 
23-06-1966 23-05-1968 13-01-1972 02-05-1974 30-08-1974 


21-03-1963 23-06-1966 23-05-1968 13-01-1972 02-05-1974 
24-09-1963 26-08-1966 12-01-1969 15-04-1972 08-05-1974 
12-01-1964 27-12-1966 08-06-1969 25-09-1972 25-05-1974 
08-08-1964 15-03-1967 22-02-1970 11-11-1972 03-06-1974 
19-12-1964 29-07-1967 07-05-1970 08-03-1973 22-06-1974 
07-08-1965 06-09-1967 08-11-1970 09-05-1973 03-07-1974 
12-10-1965 12-12-1967 14-02-1971 18-09-1973 24-07-1974 
26-03-1966 02-02-1968 11-09-1971 05-12-1973 06-08-1974 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 36 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Sun-Mon 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #3 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sun-Mar 


Sun-Mer 


Sun-Sat 


Sun-Jup 


Begin 30-08-1974 
26-06-1975 


Begin 26-06-1975 
03-12-1975 


Begin 03-12-1975 
07-11-1976 


Begin 07-11-1976 
End 26-05-1977 


Begin 26-05-1977 
End 10-06-1978 


30-08-1974 
10-10-1974 
01-11-1974 
19-12-1974 
15-01-1975 
09-03-1975 
12-04-1975 
09-06-1975 


26-06-1975 
07-07-1975 
02-08-1975 
16-08-1975 
14-09-1975 
01-10-1975 
01-11-1975 
10-11-1975 


03-12-1975 
25-01-1976 
26-02-1976 
25-04-1976 
02-06-1976 
07-08-1976 
26-08-1976 
12-10-1976 


Sat 07-11-1976 
Jup 25-11-1976 
Rah 30-12-1976 
21-01-1977 
01-03-1977 
12-03-1977 
09-04-1977 
24-04-1977 


Jup = 26-05-1977 
31-07-1977 
12-09-1977 
24-11-1977 
16-12-1977 
06-02-1978 
07-03-1978 
05-05-1978 


Sun-Rah 


Sun-Ven 


Mon-Mon 


Mon-Mar 


Mon-Mer 


Begin 10-06-1978 
05-02-1979 


10-06-1978 
06-07-1978 
22-08-1978 
04-09-1978 
08-10-1978 
25-10-1978 
02-12-1978 
24-12-1978 


Begin 05-02-1979 
31-03-1980 


05-02-1979 
27-04-1979 
21-05-1979 
18-07-1979 
18-08-1979 
23-10-1979 
01-12-1979 
13-02-1980 


Begin 31-03-1980 
20-04-1982 


31-03-1980 
13-07-1980 
06-09-1980 
02-01-1981 
13-03-1981 
23-07-1981 
14-10-1981 
09-03-1982 


Begin 20-04-1982 
25-05-1983 


20-04-1982 
19-05-1982 
21-07-1982 
27-08-1982 
06-11-1982 
20-12-1982 
08-03-1983 
30-03-1983 


Begin 25-05-1983 
21-09-1985 


25-05-1983 
05-10-1983 
23-12-1983 
21-05-1984 
23-08-1984 
04-02-1985 
24-03-1985 
20-07-1985 


Mon-Sat 


Mon-Jup 


Mon-Rah 


Mon-Ven 


Mon-Sun 


Begin 21-09-1985 
03-02-1987 


21-09-1985 
06-11-1985 
02-02-1986 
29-03-1986 
05-07-1986 
01-08-1986 
10-10-1986 
16-11-1986 


Begin 03-02-1987 
10-09-1989 


03-02-1987 
20-07-1987 
02-11-1987 
05-05-1988 
27-06-1988 
06-11-1988 
15-01-1989 
14-06-1989 


Begin 10-09-1989 
03-05-1991 


10-09-1989 
15-11-1989 
12-03-1990 
14-04-1990 
07-07-1990 
20-08-1990 
22-11-1990 
17-01-1991 


Begin 03-05-1991 
18-03-1994 


03-05-1991 
23-11-1991 
20-01-1992 
14-06-1992 
31-08-1992 
12-02-1993 
20-05-1993 
21-11-1993 


Begin 18-03-1994 
12-01-1995 


18-03-1994 
03-04-1994 
15-05-1994 
06-06-1994 
23-07-1994 
20-08-1994 
12-10-1994 
14-11-1994 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 ¢ 37 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Mar-Mar 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #4 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mar-Sat 


Mar-Mer 


Mar-Jup 


Mar-Rah 


Begin 12-01-1995 
13-08-1995 


Begin 13-08-1995 
08-11-1996 


Begin 08-11-1996 


End 


02-08-1997 


Begin 02-08-1997 
End 22-12-1998 


Begin 22-12-1998 
End = 07-11-1999 


12-01-1995 
27-01-1995 
02-03-1995 
22-03-1995 
28-04-1995 
22-05-1995 
02-07-1995 
14-07-1995 


13-08-1995 
23-10-1995 
04-12-1995 
22-02-1996 
12-04-1996 
09-07-1996 
04-08-1996 
06-10-1996 


Sat 
Jup 
Rah 
Ven 
Sun 


08-11-1996 
03-12-1996 
19-01-1997 
17-02-1997 
10-04-1997 
25-04-1997 
01-06-1997 
21-06-1997 


Jup 02-08-1997 
30-10-1997 
25-12-1997 
03-04-1998 
01-05-1998 
10-07-1998 
17-08-1998 
05-11-1998 


22-12-1998 
26-01-1999 
29-03-1999 
16-04-1999 
31-05-1999 
23-06-1999 
13-08-1999 
11-09-1999 


Mar-Ven 


Mar-Sun 


Mar-Mon 


Mer-Mer 


Mer-Sat 


Begin 07-11-1999 
20-05-2001 


07-11-1999 
23-02-2000 
26-03-2000 
11-06-2000 
23-07-2000 
19-10-2000 
10-12-2000 
18-03-2001 


Begin 20-05-2001 
27-10-2001 


20-05-2001 
28-05-2001 
20-06-2001 
01-07-2001 
27-07-2001 
10-08-2001 
08-09-2001 
25-09-2001 


Begin 27-10-2001 


01-12-2002 


27-10-2001 
21-12-2001 
20-01-2002 
24-03-2002 
30-04-2002 
09-07-2002 
23-08-2002 
08-11-2002 


Begin 01-12-2002 
21-07-2005 


01-12-2002 
01-05-2003 
29-07-2003 
15-01-2004 
01-05-2004 
04-11-2004 
28-12-2004 
11-05-2005 


Begin 21-07-2005 
08-02-2007 


21-07-2005 
11-09-2005 
20-12-2005 
21-02-2006 
11-06-2006 
13-07-2006 
29-09-2006 
10-11-2006 


Mer-Jup 


Mer-Rah> 


Mer-Ven 


Mer-Sun 


Mer-Mon 


Begin 08-02-2007 
19-01-2010 


08-02-2007 
16-08-2007 
14-12-2007 
10-07-2008 
08-09-2008 
04-02-2009 
25-04-2009 
12-10-2009 


Begin 19-01-2010 
30-11-2011 


19-01-2010 
05-04-2010 
15-08-2010 
22-09-2010 
25-12-2010 
14-02-2011 
01-06-2011 
03-08-2011 


Begin 30-11-2011 


04-03-2015 


30-11-2011 
19-07-2012 
23-09-2012 
07-03-2013 
03-06-2013 
07-12-2013 
28-03-2014 
23-10-2014 


Begin 04-03-2015 
07-02-2016 


04-03-2015 
23-03-2015 
09-05-2015 
03-06-2015 
27-07-2015 
27-08-2015 
26-10-2015 
03-12-2015 


Begin 07-02-2016 
06-06-2018 


07-02-2016 
04-06-2016 
06-08-2016 
18-12-2016 
07-03-2017 
03-08-2017 
06-11-2017 
20-04-2018 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 38 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Yogini Dasha - First Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Sankata (8y) 
From 0 yrs. to 2y 7m 


(First Cycle) 


Mangala (ly) 
From 2y 7mto 3y 7m 


: Sankata 2y 7m 10d 
: Sankata-Sankata 


Pingala (2y) 
From3y 7mto Sy 6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sank Ra 
Mang Mo 
Ping Su 
Dhan Ju 
Bhra Ma 
Bhad Me 
Ulka Sa 19-11-1917 17-12-1918 
Sidh Ve 17-12-1918 29-06-1920 


MangMo 29-06-1920 09-07-1920 
Ping Su 09-07-1920 29-07-1920 
Dhan Ju 29-07-1920 28-08-1920 
Bhra Ma 28-08-1920 07-10-1920 
Bhad Me 07-10-1920 26-11-1920 
Ulka Sa 26-11-1920 25-01-1921 
Sidh Ve 25-01-1921 05-04-1921 
Sank Ra 05-04-1921 24-06-1921 


Ping Su 24-06-1921 03-08-1921 
Dhan Ju 03-08-1921 02-10-1921 
Bhra Ma 02-10-1921 21-12-1921 
Bhad Me 21-12-1921 31-03-1922 
Ulka Sa 31-03-1922 29-07-1922 
Sidh Ve 29-07-1922 16-12-1922 
Sank Ra 16-12-1922 25-05-1923 
MangMo 25-05-1923 14-06-1923 


Dhanya (3y) 
From Sy 6m to 8y 6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Dhan Ju 14-06-1923 12-09-1923 


Bhra Ma 12-09-1923 10-01-1924 
Bhad Me 10-01-1924 08-06-1924 
Ulka Sa 08-06-1924 05-12-1924 
Sidh Ve 05-12-1924 03-07-1925 
Sank Ra 03-07-1925 28-02-1926 
MangMo 28-02-1926 30-03-1926 


Ping Su 30-03-1926 29-05-1926 


Ulka (6y) 


Bhramari (4y) 


From 8y6mto 12y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 29-05-1926 05-11-1926 


Bhad Me 05-11-1926 24-05-1927 
Ulka Sa 24-05-1927 19-01-1928 
Sidh Ve 19-01-1928 25-10-1928 
Sank Ra 25-10-1928 10-09-1929 
MangMo 10-09-1929 20-10-1929 
Ping Su 20-10-1929 08-01-1930 


Dhan Ju 08-01-1930 08-05-1930 


Siddha (7y) 


Bhadrika (5y) 


From 12y5mto 17y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhad Me 08-05-1930 13-01-1931 


Ulka Sa 13-01-1931 09-11-1931 
Sidh Ve 09-11-1931 24-10-1932 
Sank Ra 24-10-1932 28-11-1933 
Mang Mo 28-11-1933 17-01-1934 
Ping Su 17-01-1934 27-04-1934 
Dhan Ju 27-04-1934 24-09-1934 


Bhra Ma 24-09-1934 12-04-1935 


From 17y4mto 23y 3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Ulka Sa 12-04-1935 06-04-1936 


Sidh Ve 06-04-1936 31-05-1937 
Sank Ra 31-05-1937 23-09-1938 
MangMo 23-09-1938 22-11-1938 
Ping Su 22-11-1938 22-03-1939 
Dhan Ju 22-03-1939 18-09-1939 
Bhra Ma 18-09-1939 15-05-1940 


Bhad Me 15-05-1940 11-03-1941 


From 23y 3mto 30y 2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sidh Ve 11-03-1941 14-07-1942 


Sank Ra 14-07-1942 25-01-1944 
MangMo 25-01-1944 04-04-1944 
Ping Su 04-04-1944 22-08-1944 
Dhan Ju 22-08-1944 20-03-1945 
Bhra Ma 20-03-1945 25-12-1945 
Bhad Me 25-12-1945 10-12-1946 


Ulka Sa 10-12-1946 03-02-1948 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 39 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Yogini Dasha - Second Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Sankata (8y) 
From 30y2mto 38ylm 


(Second Cycle) 


Mangala (ly) 
From 38ylmto 39y0m 


Pingala (2y) 
From 39y0m to 4ly0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sank Ra 03-02-1948 04-11-1949 
MangMo 04-11-1949 23-01-1950 
Ping Su 23-01-1950 02-07-1950 
Dhan Ju 02-07-1950 27-02-1951 
Bhra Ma 27-02-1951 13-01-1952 
Bhad Me 13-01-1952 16-02-1953 
Ulka Sa 16-02-1953 11-06-1954 
Sidh Ve 11-06-1954 23-12-1955 


Mang Mo 23-12-1955 02-01-1956 
Ping Su 02-01-1956 22-01-1956 
Dhan Ju 22-01-1956 21-02-1956 
Bhra Ma 21-02-1956 01-04-1956 
Bhad Me 01-04-1956 21-05-1956 
Ulka Sa 21-05-1956 20-07-1956 
Sidh Ve 20-07-1956 28-09-1956 
Sank Ra 28-09-1956 17-12-1956 


Ping Su 17-12-1956 26-01-1957 
Dhan Ju 26-01-1957 27-03-1957 
Bhra Ma 27-03-1957 15-06-1957 
Bhad Me 15-06-1957 23-09-1957 
Ulka Sa 23-09-1957 21-01-1958 
Sidh Ve 21-01-1958 10-06-1958 
Sank Ra 10-06-1958 17-11-1958 
Mang Mo 17-11-1958 07-12-1958 


Dhanya (3y) 
From4ly0mto 44y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Dhan Ju 07-12-1958 07-03-1959 


Bhra Ma 07-03-1959 05-07-1959 
Bhad Me 05-07-1959 02-12-1959 
Ulka Sa 02-12-1959 30-05-1960 
Sidh Ve 30-05-1960 26-12-1960 
Sank Ra 26-12-1960 23-08-1961 
MangMo 23-08-1961 22-09-1961 


Bhramari (4y) 
From 44y0m to 47yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 21-11-1961 30-04-1962 


Bhad Me 30-04-1962 16-11-1962 
Ulka Sa 16-11-1962 14-07-1963 
Sidh Ve 14-07-1963 19-04-1964 
Sank Ra 19-04-1964 05-03-1965 
Mang Mo 05-03-1965 14-04-1965 
Ping Su 14-04-1965 03-07-1965 


Bhadrika (5y) 
From 47yllmto 52y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Bhad Me 31-10-1965 08-07-1966 
Ulka Sa 08-07-1966 04-05-1967 
Sidh Ve 04-05-1967 18-04-1968 
Sank Ra 18-04-1968 23-05-1969 
Mang Mo 23-05-1969 12-07-1969 
Ping Su 12-07-1969 20-10-1969 
Dhan Ju 20-10-1969 19-03-1970 


Ping Su 22-09-1961 21-11-1961 


Ulka (6y) 
From 52y10m to S58y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ulka Sa 05-10-1970 30-09-1971 


Sidh Ve 30-09-1971 23-11-1972 
Sank Ra 23-11-1972 18-03-1974 
Mang Mo 18-03-1974 17-05-1974 
Ping Su 17-05-1974 14-09-1974 
Dhan Ju. 14-09-1974 13-03-1975 
Bhra Ma 13-03-1975 08-11-1975 


Bhad Me 08-11-1975 03-09-1976 


Dhan Ju 03-07-1965 31-10-1965 


Siddha (7y) 
From 58y9m to 65y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sidh Ve 03-09-1976 06-01-1978 


Sank Ra 06-01-1978 20-07-1979 
Mang Mo 20-07-1979 28-09-1979 
Ping Su 28-09-1979 15-02-1980 
Dhan Ju 15-02-1980 12-09-1980 
Bhra Ma 12-09-1980 19-06-1981 
Bhad Me 19-06-1981 04-06-1982 


Ulka Sa 04-06-1982 29-07-1983 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Bhra Ma 19-03-1970 05-10-1970 


HP3 + 40 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Yogini Dasha - Third Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Sankata (8y) 
From 65y8m to 73y6m 


(Third Cycle) 


Mangala (ly) 
From 73y6mto 74y6m 


Pingala (2y) 
From 74y6m to 76y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sank Ra 29-07-1983 29-04-1985 
MangMo 29-04-1985 18-07-1985 
Ping Su 18-07-1985 25-12-1985 
Dhan Ju. 25-12-1985 22-08-1986 
Bhra Ma 22-08-1986 08-07-1987 
Bhad Me 08-07-1987 11-08-1988 
Ulka Sa 11-08-1988 04-12-1989 
Sidh Ve 04-12-1989 17-06-1991 


MangMo 17-06-1991 27-06-1991 
Ping Su 27-06-1991 17-07-1991 
Dhan Ju_ 17-07-1991 16-08-1991 
Bhra Ma 16-08-1991 25-09-1991 
Bhad Me 25-09-1991 14-11-1991 
Ulka Sa 14-11-1991 13-01-1992 
Sidh Ve 13-01-1992 23-03-1992 
Sank Ra 23-03-1992 11-06-1992 


Ping Su 11-06-1992 21-07-1992 
Dhan Ju 21-07-1992 19-09-1992 
Bhra Ma 19-09-1992 08-12-1992 
Bhad Me 08-12-1992 18-03-1993 
Ulka Sa 18-03-1993 16-07-1993 
Sidh Ve 16-07-1993 03-12-1993 
Sank Ra 03-12-1993 12-05-1994 
MangMo 12-05-1994 01-06-1994 


Dhanya (3y) 
From 76y6m to 79y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Dhan Ju 01-06-1994 30-08-1994 


Bhra Ma 30-08-1994 28-12-1994 
Bhad Me 28-12-1994 27-05-1995 
Ulka Sa 27-05-1995 23-11-1995 
Sidh Ve 23-11-1995 90.06-1996 
Sank Ra 20-06-1996 15-02-1997 
MangMo 15-02-1997 17-03-1997 


Ping Su 17-03-1997 16-05-1997 


Bhramari (4y) 
From 79y5m to 83y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 16-05-1997 23-10-1997 


Bhad Me 23-10-1997 11-05-1998 
Ulka Sa 11-05-1998 06-01-1999 
Sidh Ve 06-01-1999 13-10-1999 
Sank Ra 13-10-1999 28-08-2000 
Mang Mo 28-08-2000 07-10-2000 
Ping Su 07-10-2000 26-12-2000 


Dhan Ju 26-12-2000 25-04-2001 


Bhadrika (5y) 
From 83y5mto 88y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhad Me 25-04-2001 31-12-2001 


Ulka Sa 31-12-2001 27-10-2002 
Sidh Ve 27-10-2002 12-10-2003 
Sank Ra 12-10-2003 15-11-2004 
Mang Mo 15-11-2004 04-01-2005 
Ping Su 04-01-2005 14-04-2005 
Dhan Ju 14-04-2005 11-09-2005 


Bhra Ma 11-09-2005 30-03-2006 


Ulka (6y) 
From 88y4m to 94y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Ulka Sa 30-03-2006 25-03-2007 


Sidh Ve 25-03-2007 18-05-2008 
Sank Ra 18-05-2008 10-09-2009 
Mang Mo 10-09-2009 09-11-2009 
Ping Su 09-11-2009 09-03-2010 
Dhan Ju 09-03-2010 05-09-2010 
Bhra Ma 05-09-2010 03-05-2011 


Bhad Me 03-05-2011 27-02-2012 


Siddha (7y) 


From 94y3mto  10ly2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sidh Ve 27-02-2012 01-07-2013 


Sank Ra 01-07-2013 12-01-2015 
MangMo 12-01-2015 23-03-2015 
Ping Su 23-03-2015 10-08-2015 
Dhan Ju 10-08-2015 07-03-2016 
Bhra Ma 07-03-2016 12-12-2016 
Bhad Me 12-12-2016 27-11-2017 


Ulka Sa 27-11-2017 21-01-2019 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 41 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Kala Chakra Dasha — MD and AD 


Kala Chakra Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth : Aries ly 9m 29d * Jeeva Rashi : Gemini * Deha Rashi : Taurus 


Ari (7y) dyOm* Tau (16y) 93y5m Gem (9y) 97y5m Can (21y) 10ly 4m 


Beginning Beginning 18-09-1919 Beginning 26-06-1935 Beginning 09-05-1944 
Ending 18-09-1919 Ending 26-06-1935 Ending 09-05-1944 Ending 19-01-1965 
Sco 18-09-1919 Sag 26-06-1935 10 09-05-1944 

Lib 10-01-1921 22-03-1936 29-01-1946 

05-05-1922 17-12-1936 21-10-1947 

28-08-1923 13-09-1937 12-07-1949 

20-12-1924 10-06-1938 03-04-1951 

14-04-1926 07-03-1939 23-12-1952 

07-08-1927 02-12-1939 14-09-1954 

29-11-1928 28-08-1940 05-06-1956 

19-11-1917 24-03-1930 25-05-1941 25-02-1958 

27-12-1917 17-07-1931 19-02-1942 17-11-1959 

25-07-1918 Cap 08-11-1932 i 16-11-1942 08-08-1961 

20-02-1919 Sag 03-03-1934 13-08-1943 30-04-1963 


Ne NWN DH 1 BD OO 


— 
—_. 


Leo (5y) llly2m_ Vir (Qy) 118yim_ Lib (16y) 133y 10m Sco (Ty) 142y 9m 


Beginning 19-01-1965 Beginning 24-12-1969 Beginning 07-11-1978 Beginning 15-08-1994 
Ending 24-12-1969 Ending 07-11-1978 Ending 15-08-1994 Ending 09-07-2001 
19-01-1965 12 Pis 24-12-1969 i 07-11-1978 Sco 15-08-1994 
18-06-1965 11 Aqu 20-09-1970 01-03-1980 Lib 13-03-1995 
15-11-1965 10 Cap 17-06-1971 24-06-1981 i 09-10-1995 
14-04-1966 Sag 13-03-1972 17-10-1982 06-05-1996 
11-09-1966 Sco 08-12-1972 09-02-1984 02-12-1996 
08-02-1967 Lib 04-09-1973 i 03-06-1985 30-06-1997 
08-07-1967 i 01-06-1974 1 26-09-1986 26-01-1998 
05-12-1967 26-02-1975 19-01-1988 i 24-08-1998 
03-05-1968 23-11-1975 Sag 13-05-1989 i 22-03-1999 
30-09-1968 19-08-1976 Cap 05-09-1990 18-10-1999 
27-02-1969 16-05-1977 Aqu 29-12-1991 15-05-2000 
27-07-1969 10-02-1978 Pis 22-04-1993 11-12-2000 


\o 


= NW UH ~1 


Sag (10y) 163y5m Cap (4y) 168y4m Aqu (4y) 177y3m__ Pis (10y) 193y 0m 


Beginning 09-07-2001 Beginning 18-05-2011 Beginning 27-04-2015 Beginning 06-04-2019 
18-05-2011 Ending 27-04-2015 Ending 06-04-2019 Ending 12-02-2029 

Sag 09-07-2001 10 Cap 18-05-2011 Leo 27-04-2015 Pis 06-04-2019 
Cap 05-05-2002 Sag 15-09-2011 Vir 25-08-2015 31-01-2020 
01-03-2003 Sco 13-01-2012 23-12-2015 26-11-2020 
26-12-2003 Lib 12-05-2012 21-04-2016 22-09-2021 
21-10-2004 Vir 09-09-2012 Sag 19-08-2016 19-07-2022 
17-08-2005 Leo 07-01-2013 Cap 17-12-2016 15-05-2023 
13-06-2006 Can 07-05-2013 Aqu 16-04-2017 10-03-2024 
09-04-2007 Gem 04-09-2013 Pis 14-08-2017 04-01-2025 
03-02-2008 Tau 02-01-2014 Ari 12-12-2017 31-10-2025 
29-11-2008 Ari 02-05-2014 Tau 11-04-2018 27-08-2026 
25-09-2009 Pis 30-08-2014 Gem 09-08-2018 23-06-2027 
22-07-2010 Aqu 28-12-2014 Can 07-12-2018 18-04-2028 


* The dates are Dasha beginning dates * 


\o 


=a Ne NW DRM H ~1 CO 
mea nNwW RUD ~1 


— 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 42 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Begin 19-11-1917 
End = 27-12-1917 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #1 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Gemini * Deha Rashi :Taurus 


Ari-Cap 
Begin 27-12-1917 
End 25-07-1918 


Ari-Aqu 
Begin 25-07-1918 
End 20-02-1919 


Ari-Pis 
Begin 20-02-1919 
End 18-09-1919 


Begin 18-09-1919 
End 10-01-1921 


Sag 
Cap 


Vir 19-11-1917 
Lib 22-11-1917 
Sco 10-12-1917 


Tau-Lib 


Cap 27-12-1917 
Sag 14-01-1918 
Sco 31-01-1918 
Lib 18-02-1918 
Vir 07-03-1918 
Leo 25-03-1918 
Can 11-04-1918 
Gem D 29-04-1918 
TauJ 16-05-1918 
Ari 03-06-1918 
Pis 20-06-1918 
Aqu 08-07-1918 


Tau-Vir 


25-07-1918 
12-08-1918 
29-08-1918 
16-09-1918 
03-10-1918 
21-10-1918 
07-11-1918 
25-11-1918 
12-12-1918 
TauJ 30-12-1918 
Gem D 16-01-1919 
Can 03-02-1919 


Tau-Leo 


Pis 20-02-1919 
Aqu 10-03-1919 
Cap 27-03-1919 
Sag 14-04-1919 
Sco 01-05-1919 
Lib 19-05-1919 
Vir 05-06-1919 
Leo 23-06-1919 
Can 10-07-1919 
Gem D 28-07-1919 
TauJ 14-08-1919 

01-09-1919 


Tau-Can 


Sco 18-09-1919 
Lib 28-10-1919 
Vir 07-12-1919 
Leo 16-01-1920 
Can 25-02-1920 
Gem D 05-04-1920 
TauJ 15-05-1920 
Ari 24-06-1920 
i 03-08-1920 
12-09-1920 
22-10-1920 
01-12-1920 


Tau-Gem 


Begin 10-01-1921 
End 05-05-1922 
Ari 10-01-1921 
Tau J 19-02-1921 
Gem D 31-03-1921 
Can 10-05-1921 
Leo 19-06-1921 
Vir 29-07-1921 
Lib 07-09-1921 
Sco 17-10-1921 
Sag 26-11-1921 
Cap 05-01-1922 
Aqu 14-02-1922 
Pis 26-03-1922 


Begin 05-05-1922 
28-08-1923 
05-05-1922 
14-06-1922 
24-07-1922 
02-09-1922 
12-10-1922 
21-11-1922 
31-12-1922 
09-02-1923 

Can 21-03-1923 

Gem D 30-04-1923 

TauJ 09-06-1923 

Ari 19-07-1923 


Begin 28-08-1923 
20-12-1924 
28-08-1923 
07-10-1923 
16-11-1923 
26-12-1923 
04-02-1924 
15-03-1924 
24-04-1924 

Pis 03-06-1924 

Ari 13-07-1924 

TauJ 22-08-1924 

Gem D 01-10-1924 

Can 10-11-1924 


Begin 20-12-1924 
14-04-1926 
20-12-1924 
29-01-1925 
10-03-1925 
19-04-1925 
29-05-1925 

Leo 08-07-1925 

Can = 17-08-1925 

Gem D 26-09-1925 

TauJ 05-11-1925 

Ari 15-12-1925 

Pis 24-01-1926 

Aqu 05-03-1926 


Begin 14-04-1926 
07-08-1927 
14-04-1926 
24-05-1926 
03-07-1926 
12-08-1926 
21-09-1926 

TauJ 31-10-1926 

Gem D 10-12-1926 

Can = 19-01-1927 

Leo 28-02-1927 

i 09-04-1927 
19-05-1927 
28-06-1927 


Tau-Tau 
Begin 07-08-1927 
End = 29-11-1928 


Tau-Ari 
Begin 29-11-1928 
End 24-03-1930 


Tau-Pis 
Begin 24-03-1930 
End _ 17-07-1931 


Begin 17-07-1931 


End 08-11-1932 


08-11-1932 
03-03-1934 


Sco 07-08-1927 
Lib 16-09-1927 
Vir 26-10-1927 
Leo = 05-12-1927 
Can 14-01-1928 
Gem D 23-02-1928 
TauJ 03-04-1928 
i 13-05-1928 
22-06-1928 
01-08-1928 
10-09-1928 
20-10-1928 


Ari 29-11-1928 
TauJ 08-01-1929 
Gem D 17-02-1929 
Can 29-03-1929 
Leo 08-05-1929 
Vir 17-06-1929 
Lib 27-07-1929 
Sco 05-09-1929 
Sag 15-10-1929 
Cap 24-11-1929 
Aqu 03-01-1930 
Pis 12-02-1930 


Pis 24-03-1930 
Aqu 03-05-1930 
Cap =: 12-06-1930 
Sag 22-07-1930 
Sco 31-08-1930 
Lib 10-10-1930 
Vir 19-11-1930 
Leo = 29-12-1930 
Can 07-02-1931 
Gem D 19-03-1931 
TauJ 28-04-1931 
Ari 07-06-1931 


Leo 17-07-1931 
Vir 26-08-1931 
Lib 05-10-1931 
Sco 14-11-1931 
24-12-1931 
02-02-1932 
13-03-1932 
22-04-1932 
01-06-1932 
TauJ 11-07-1932 
Gem D 20-08-1932 
Can 29-09-1932 


08-11-1932 
18-12-1932 
27-01-1933 
08-03-1933 
17-04-1933 
27-05-1933 
Can 06-07-1933 
Gem D 15-08-1933 
TauJ 24-09-1933 
Ari 03-11-1933 
Pis 13-12-1933 
Aqu 22-01-1934 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 43 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Begin 03-03-1934 
End 26-06-1935 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #2 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Gemini * Deha Rashi :Taurus 


Gem-Sag 
Begin 26-06-1935 
End = 22-03-1936 


Begin 22-03-1936 
End _ 17-12-1936 


Begin 17-12-1936 
End 13-09-1937 


Begin 13-09-1937 
End 10-06-1938 


Sag 03-03-1934 
Cap =: 12-04-1934 
22-05-1934 
01-07-1934 
10-08-1934 
TauJ 19-09-1934 
Gem D 29-10-1934 
08-12-1934 
17-01-1935 
26-02-1935 
07-04-1935 
17-05-1935 


Sag 26-06-1935 
Cap 19-07-1935 
Aqu 10-08-1935 
Pis 02-09-1935 
Ari 24-09-1935 
TauJ 17-10-1935 
Gem D 08-11-1935 
01-12-1935 
23-12-1935 
15-01-1936 
06-02-1936 
29-02-1936 


Gem-Tau 


Cap 22-03-1936 
Sag 14-04-1936 
Sco 06-05-1936 
Lib 29-05-1936 
Vir 20-06-1936 
Leo 13-07-1936 
Can 04-08-1936 
Gem D 27-08-1936 
TauJ 18-09-1936 
Ari 11-10-1936 
Pis 02-11-1936 
Aqu 25-11-1936 


Leo 17-12-1936 
Vir 09-01-1937 
Lib 31-01-1937 
Sco 23-02-1937 
Sag 17-03-1937 
Cap 09-04-1937 
Aqu 01-05-1937 
Pis 24-05-1937 
Ari 15-06-1937 
Tau J 08-07-1937 
Gem D 30-07-1937 
Can 22-08-1937 


Gem-Can 


Pis 13-09-1937 
Aqu 06-10-1937 
Cap 28-10-1937 
Sag 20-11-1937 
Sco 12-12-1937 
Lib 04-01-1938 
Vir 26-01-1938 
Leo 18-02-1938 
Can 12-03-1938 
Gem D 04-04-1938 
TauJ 26-04-1938 
Ari 19-05-1938 


Gem-Leo 


Begin 10-06-1938 
End 07-03-1939 

10-06-1938 
TauJ 03-07-1938 
Gem D 25-07-1938 
Can 17-08-1938 
Leo 08-09-1938 
Vir 01-10-1938 
Lib = 23-10-1938 
Sco 15-11-1938 
Sag 07-12-1938 
Cap 30-12-1938 
Aqu 21-01-1939 
Pis 13-02-1939 


Begin 07-03-1939 
02-12-1939 
07-03-1939 
30-03-1939 
21-04-1939 
14-05-1939 

Can 05-06-1939 

Gem D 28-06-1939 

TauJ 20-07-1939 

Ari 12-08-1939 

is 03-09-1939 

Aqu 26-09-1939 

Cap 18-10-1939 

Sag 10-11-1939 


Begin 02-12-1939 
28-08-1940 
02-12-1939 
25-12-1939 
16-01-1940 
08-02-1940 
01-03-1940 

TauJ 24-03-1940 

Gem D 15-04-1940 

Can 08-05-1940 

Leo 30-05-1940 

Vir 22-06-1940 

Lib 14-07-1940 

Sco 06-08-1940 


Begin 28-08-1940 
25-05-1941 
28-08-1940 
20-09-1940 
12-10-1940 
04-11-1940 
26-11-1940 

Leo 19-12-1940 

Can 10-01-1941 

Gem D 02-02-1941 

TauJ 24-02-1941 

Ari 19-03-1941 

Pis 10-04-1941 

Aqu 03-05-1941 


Begin 25-05-1941 
19-02-1942 
25-05-1941 
17-06-1941 
09-07-1941 
01-08-1941 
23-08-1941 
15-09-1941] 
07-10-1941 

Pis 30-10-1941 

Ari 21-11-1941 

TauJ 14-12-1941 

Gem D 05-01-1942 

Can 28-01-1942 


Gem-Vir 
Begin 19-02-1942 
End = 16-11-1942 


Gem-Lib 
Begin 16-11-1942 
End 13-08-1943 


Gem-Sco 
Begin 13-08-1943 
End 09-05-1944 


Begin 09-05-1944 


End 29-01-1946 


Begin 29-01-1946 
End 21-10-1947 


Pis 19-02-1942 
Aqu = 14-03-1942 
Cap 05-04-1942 
Sag 28-04-1942 
Sco 20-05-1942 
Lib 12-06-1942 
Vir 04-07-1942 
Leo 27-07-1942 
Can 18-08-1942 
Gem D 10-09-1942 
TauJ 02-10-1942 
Ari 25-10-1942 


Ari 16-11-1942 
TauJ 09-12-1942 
Gem D 31-12-1942 
Can 23-01-1943 
Leo 14-02-1943 
Vir 09-03-1943 
Lib 31-03-1943 
Sco 23-04-1943 
Sag 15-05-1943 
Cap 07-06-1943 
Aqu 29-06-1943 
Pis 22-07-1943 


Sco 13-08-1943 
Lib 05-09-1943 
Vir 27-09-1943 
Leo 20-10-1943 
Can 11-11-1943 
Gem D 04-12-1943 
Tau J. 26-12-1943 
Ari 18-01-1944 
Pis 09-02-1944 
Aqu 03-03-1944 
Cap 25-03-1944 
Sag 17-04-1944 


Cap 09-05-1944 
Sag 01-07-1944 
Sco 22-08-1944 
Lib 14-10-1944 
Vir 05-12-1944 
Leo 27-01-1945 
Can 20-03-1945 
Gem D 12-05-1945 
Tau J 03-07-1945 
Ari 25-08-1945 
Pis 16-10-1945 
Aqu 08-12-1945 


Sag 29-01-1946 
Cap 23-03-1946 
Agu 14-05-1946 
Pis 06-07-1946 
Ari 27-08-1946 
TauJ 19-10-1946 
Gem D 10-12-1946 
Can 01-02-1947 
Leo 25-03-1947 
Vir 17-05-1947 
Lib 08-07-1947 
Sco 30-08-1947 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 * 44 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Begin 21-10-1947 
End 12-07-1949 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #3 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Gemini * Deha Rashi :Taurus 


Begin 12-07-1949 
End 03-04-1951 


Can-Vir 
Begin 03-04-1951 
End = 23-12-1952 


Begin 23-12-1952 
End 14-09-1954 


14-09-1954 
05-06-1956 


Sco 21-10-1947 
Lib 13-12-1947 
Vir 03-02-1948 
Leo 27-03-1948 
Can = 18-05-1948 
Gem D 10-07-1948 
TauJ 31-08-1948 
23-10-1948 
14-12-1948 
05-02-1949 
29-03-1949 
21-05-1949 


Can-Gem 


Ari 12-07-1949 
TauJ 03-09-1949 
Gem D 25-10-1949 
Can 17-12-1949 
07-02-1950 
01-04-1950 
23-05-1950 
15-07-1950 
05-09-1950 
28-10-1950 
19-12-1950 
10-02-1951 


Can-Tau 


Pis 03-04-1951 
Aqu = 26-05-1951 
Cap 17-07-1951 
Sag 08-09-1951 
Sco 30-10-1951 
Lib 22-12-1951 
Vir 12-02-1952 
Leo 05-04-1952 
Can 27-05-1952 
Gem D 19-07-1952 
Tau J 09-09-1952 

01-11-1952 


Can-Ari 


Leo 23-12-1952 
Vir 14-02-1953 
Lib 07-04-1953 
Sco 30-05-1953 
Sag 21-07-1953 
Cap 12-09-1953 
Aqu 03-11-1953 
Pis 26-12-1953 
Ari 16-02-1954 
TauJ 10-04-1954 
Gem D 01-06-1954 
Can 24-07-1954 


Can-Pis 


14-09-1954 
06-11-1954 
28-12-1954 
19-02-1955 
12-04-1955 
04-06-1955 
26-07-1955 
Gem D 17-09-1955 
TauJ 08-11-1955 
Ari 31-12-1955 
Pis 21-02-1956 
Aqu 14-04-1956 


Begin 05-06-1956 
25-02-1958 
05-06-1956 
28-07-1956 
18-09-1956 
10-11-1956 
01-01-1957 

TauJ 23-02-1957 

Gem D 16-04-1957 

Can 08-06-1957 

Leo 30-07-1957 

Vir 21-09-1957 

Lib 12-11-1957 

Sco 04-01-1958 


Begin 25-02-1958 
17-11-1959 
25-02-1958 
19-04-1958 
10-06-1958 
02-08-1958 

Can 23-09-1958 

Gem D 15-11-1958 

TauJ 06-01-1959 

Ari 28-02-1959 

Pis 21-04-1959 

Aqu 13-06-1959 

Cap 04-08-1959 

Sag 26-09-1959 


Begin 17-11-1959 
End = 08-08-1961 

17-11-1959 
TauJ 09-01-1960 
Gem D 01-03-1960 
Can 23-04-1960 
Leo 14-06-1960 
Vir 06-08-1960 
Lib 27-09-1960 
Sco 19-11-1960 
Sag 10-01-1961 
Cap 04-03-1961 
Aqu 25-04-1961 
Pis 17-06-1961 


Begin 08-08-1961 
30-04-1963 
08-08-1961 
30-09-1961 
21-11-1961 
13-01-1962 
06-03-1962 
28-04-1962 
19-06-1962 
11-08-1962 

Can 02-10-1962 

Gem D 24-11-1962 

TauJ 15-01-1963 

Ari 09-03-1963 


30-04-1963 
22-06-1963 
13-08-1963 
05-10-1963 
26-11-1963 
18-01-1964 
10-03-1964 
Pis 02-05-1964 
Ari 23-06-1964 
TauJ 15-08-1964 
Gem D 06-10-1964 
Can 28-11-1964 


Leo-Leo 
Begin 19-01-1965 
End 18-06-1965 


Leo-Vir 
Begin 18-06-1965 


Leo-Lib 
Begin 15-11-1965 
End = 14-04-1966 


Leo-Sco 
Begin 14-04-1966 
End 11-09-1966 


Begin 11-09-1966 


End _ 08-02-1967 


Leo 19-01-1965 
Vir 01-02-1965 
Lib 13-02-1965 
Sco 26-02-1965 
Sag 10-03-1965 
Cap 23-03-1965 
Aqu 04-04-1965 
Pis 17-04-1965 
Ari 29-04-1965 
Tau J 12-05-1965 
Gem D 24-05-1965 
Can 06-06-1965 


End 15-11-1965 


Pis 18-06-1965 
Aqu 01-07-1965 
Cap 13-07-1965 
Sag 26-07-1965 
Sco 07-08-1965 
Lib 20-08-1965 
Vir 01-09-1965 
Leo 14-09-1965 
Can 26-09-1965 
Gem D 09-10-1965 
TauJ 21-10-1965 
Ari 03-11-1965 


Ari 15-11-1965 
TauJ 28-11-1965 
Gem D 10-12-1965 
Can 23-12-1965 
Leo 04-01-1966 
Vir 17-01-1966 
29-01-1966 
11-02-1966 

Sag 23-02-1966 
Cap 08-03-1966 
20-03-1966 
02-04-1966 


Sco 14-04-1966 
Lib 27-04-1966 
Vir 09-05-1966 
Leo 22-05-1966 
Can 03-06-1966 
Gem D 16-06-1966 
TauJ 28-06-1966 
Ari 11-07-1966 
23-07-1966 
05-08-1966 
17-08-1966 
30-08-1966 


Sag —_ 11-09-1966 
Cap 24-09-1966 
Aqu 06-10-1966 
Pis 19-10-1966 
Ari 31-10-1966 
TauJ 13-11-1966 
Gem D 25-11-1966 
Can 08-12-1966 
Leo 20-12-1966 
Vir 02-01-1967 
Lib 14-01-1967 
Sco 27-01-1967 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 45 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Begin 08-02-1967 
End 08-07-1967 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #4 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Gemini * Deha Rashi :Taurus 


Begin 08-07-1967 
End 05-12-1967 


Leo-Pis 
Begin 05-12-1967 
End 03-05-1968 


Begin 03-05-1968 
End 30-09-1968 


Begin 30-09-1968 
End 27-02-1969 


Cap 08-02-1967 
Sag 21-02-1967 
Sco 05-03-1967 
Lib 18-03-1967 
Vir 30-03-1967 
Leo 12-04-1967 
Can 24-04-1967 
Gem D 07-05-1967 
19-05-1967 
01-06-1967 
13-06-1967 
26-06-1967 


Leo-Gem 


Leo 08-07-1967 
Vir 21-07-1967 
Lib 02-08-1967 
Sco 15-08-1967 
Sag 27-08-1967 
Cap 09-09-1967 
Aqu = 21-09-1967 
Pis 04-10-1967 
Ari 16-10-1967 
TauJ 29-10-1967 
Gem D 10-11-1967 
Can 23-11-1967 


Leo-Can 


Pis 05-12-1967 
Aqu = 18-12-1967 
Cap 30-12-1967 
Sag 12-01-1968 
Sco 24-01-1968 
Lib 06-02-1968 
Vir 18-02-1968 
Leo 02-03-1968 
Can 14-03-1968 
Gem D 27-03-1968 
Tau J 08-04-1968 

21-04-1968 


Vir-Pis 


Ari 03-05-1968 
TauJ 16-05-1968 
Gem D 28-05-1968 
Can 10-06-1968 
22-06-1968 
05-07-1968 
17-07-1968 
30-07-1968 
11-08-1968 
24-08-1968 
05-09-1968 
18-09-1968 


Sco 30-09-1968 
Lib 13-10-1968 
Vir 25-10-1968 
Leo 07-11-1968 
Can 19-11-1968 
Gem D 02-12-1968 
TauJ 14-12-1968 
Ari 27-12-1968 
i 08-01-1969 
21-01-1969 
02-02-1969 
15-02-1969 


Begin 27-02-1969 
27-07-1969 
27-02-1969 
12-03-1969 
24-03-1969 
06-04-1969 
18-04-1969 

TauJ 01-05-1969 

Gem D 13-05-1969 

Can 26-05-1969 
07-06-1969 
20-06-1969 
02-07-1969 
15-07-1969 


Begin 27-07-1969 
24-12-1969 
27-07-1969 
09-08-1969 
21-08-1969 
03-09-1969 
15-09-1969 
28-09-1969 
10-10-1969 

Gem D 23-10-1969 

TauJ 04-11-1969 

Ari 17-11-1969 

Pis 29-11-1969 

Aqu = 12-12-1969 


Begin 24-12-1969 
20-09-1970 
24-12-1969 
16-01-1970 
07-02-1970 
02-03-1970 
24-03-1970 
16-04-1970 
08-05-1970 
31-05-1970 

Can 22-06-1970 

Gem D 15-07-1970 

Tau J 06-08-1970 

Ari —- 29-08-1970 


Begin 20-09-1970 
17-06-1971 
20-09-1970 
13-10-1970 
04-11-1970 
27-11-1970 
19-12-1970 
11-01-1971 
02-02-1971 

Pis 25-02-1971 

Ari 19-03-1971 

TauJ 11-04-1971 

Gem D 03-05-1971 

Can 26-05-1971 


17-06-1971 
13-03-1972 


17-06-1971 
10-07-1971 
01-08-1971 
24-08-1971 
15-09-1971 
08-10-1971 
30-10-1971 
Gem D 22-11-1971 
TauJ 14-12-1971 
Ari 06-01-1972 
Pis 28-01-1972 
Aqu 20-02-1972 


Begin 13-03-1972 


End 08-12-1972 


Vir-Sco 
Begin 08-12-1972 
End 04-09-1973 


Vir-Lib 
Begin 04-09-1973 
End 01-06-1974 


Vir-Vir 
Begin 01-06-1974 


Vir-Leo 
Begin 26-02-1975 
End = 23-11-1975 


Sag 13-03-1972 
Cap 05-04-1972 

27-04-1972 

20-05-1972 

11-06-1972 
Tau J 04-07-1972 
Gem D 26-07-1972 
Can 18-08-1972 
Leo 09-09-1972 
Vir 02-10-1972 
Lib 24-10-1972 
Sco 16-11-1972 


Sco 08-12-1972 
Lib 31-12-1972 
Vir 22-01-1973 
Leo 14-02-1973 
Can 08-03-1973 
Gem D 31-03-1973 
TauJ 22-04-1973 
Ari 15-05-1973 
06-06-1973 
29-06-1973 
21-07-1973 
13-08-1973 


Ari 04-09-1973 
TauJ 27-09-1973 
Gem D 19-10-1973 
Can 11-11-1973 
Leo 03-12-1973 
Vir 26-12-1973 
ib 17-01-1974 
09-02-1974 

Sag 03-03-1974 
Cap 26-03-1974 
17-04-1974 
10-05-1974 


End 26-02-1975 


Pis 01-06-1974 
Aqu 24-06-1974 
Cap 16-07-1974 
Sag 08-08-1974 
Sco 30-08-1974 
Lib 22-09-1974 
Vir 14-10-1974 
Leo 06-11-1974 
Can 28-11-1974 
Gem D 21-12-1974 
TauJ 12-01-1975 
Ari 04-02-1975 


Leo 26-02-1975 
Vir 21-03-1975 
Lib 12-04-1975 
Sco 05-05-1975 
Sag 27-05-1975 
Cap 19-06-1975 
Aqu = 11-07-1975 
Pis 03-08-1975 
Ari 25-08-1975 
Tau J 17-09-1975 
Gem D 09-10-1975 
Can 01-11-1975 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 46 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Vir-Can 
Begin 23-11-1975 
End 19-08-1976 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #5 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Gemini * Deha Rashi :Taurus 


Begin 19-08-1976 
End 16-05-1977 


Vir-Tau 
Begin 16-05-1977 
End _ 10-02-1978 


Vir-Ari 
Begin 10-02-1978 
End = 07-11-1978 


Lib-Ari 
Begin 07-11-1978 
End 01-03-1980 


Cap 23-11-1975 
Sag 16-12-1975 
Sco 07-01-1976 
Lib 30-01-1976 
Vir 21-02-1976 
Leo 15-03-1976 
Can 06-04-1976 
Gem D 29-04-1976 
TauJ 21-05-1976 
Ari 13-06-1976 
Pis 05-07-1976 
Aqu 28-07-1976 


Lib-Tau 


Sag 19-08-1976 
Cap 11-09-1976 
Aqu 03-10-1976 
Pis 26-10-1976 
Ari 17-11-1976 
TauJ 10-12-1976 
Gem D 01-01-1977 
24-01-1977 
15-02-1977 
10-03-1977 
01-04-1977 
24-04-1977 


Lib-Gem 


Sco 16-05-1977 
Lib =: 08-06-1977 
Vir 30-06-1977 
Leo 23-07-1977 
Can 14-08-1977 
Gem D 06-09-1977 
TauJ 28-09-1977 
Ari 21-10-1977 
Pis 12-11-1977 

05-12-1977 

27-12-1977 

19-01-1978 


Lib-Can 


Ari 10-02-1978 
Tau J 05-03-1978 
Gem D 27-03-1978 
Can 19-04-1978 
11-05-1978 
03-06-1978 
25-06-1978 
18-07-1978 
09-08-1978 
01-09-1978 
23-09-1978 
16-10-1978 


Lib-Leo 


Ari 07-11-1978 
TauJ 17-12-1978 
Gem D 26-01-1979 
Can 07-03-1979 
16-04-1979 
26-05-1979 
05-07-1979 
14-08-1979 
23-09-1979 
02-11-1979 
12-12-1979 
21-01-1980 


Lib-Vir 


Begin 01-03-1980 
24-06-1981 
01-03-1980 
10-04-1980 
20-05-1980 
29-06-1980 

Can 08-08-1980 

Gem D 17-09-1980 

TauJ 27-10-1980 

Ari —- 06-12-1980 

Pis 15-01-1981 

Aqu 24-02-1981 

Cap 05-04-1981 

Sag 15-05-1981 


Begin 24-06-1981 
17-10-1982 
24-06-1981 
03-08-1981 
12-09-1981 
22-10-1981 
01-12-1981 

TauJ 10-01-1982 

Gem D 19-02-1982 

Can 31-03-1982 

Leo 10-05-1982 

Vir 19-06-1982 

Lib 29-07-1982 

Sco 07-09-1982 


Begin 17-10-1982 
09-02-1984 
17-10-1982 
26-11-1982 
05-01-1983 
14-02-1983 
26-03-1983 
05-05-1983 
14-06-1983 

Gem D 24-07-1983 

Tau J 02-09-1983 

Ari 12-10-1983 

Pis 21-11-1983 

Aqu 31-12-1983 


Begin 09-02-1984 
03-06-1985 
09-02-1984 
20-03-1984 
29-04-1984 
08-06-1984 
18-07-1984 
27-08-1984 
06-10-1984 

Pis 15-11-1984 

Ari 25-12-1984 

TauJ 03-02-1985 

Gem D 15-03-1985 

Can 24-04-1985 


Begin 03-06-1985 
26-09-1986 
03-06-1985 
13-07-1985 
22-08-1985 
01-10-1985 
10-11-1985 
20-12-1985 
29-01-1986 
10-03-1986 
19-04-1986 

Gem D 29-05-1986 

TauJ 08-07-1986 

Ari 17-08-1986 


Lib-Lib 
Begin 26-09-1986 
End 19-01-1988 


Lib-Sco 
Begin 19-01-1988 
End 13-05-1989 


Begin 13-05-1989 


End 05-09-1990 


Begin 05-09-1990 
End 29-12-1991 


Begin 29-12-1991 
End 22-04-1993 


Ari 26-09-1986 
Tau J 05-11-1986 
Gem D 15-12-1986 
Can 24-01-1987 
Leo 05-03-1987 
Vir 14-04-1987 
Lib 24-05-1987 
Sco 03-07-1987 
Sag 12-08-1987 
Cap 21-09-1987 
Aqu 31-10-1987 
Pis 10-12-1987 


Sco 19-01-1988 
Lib = 28-02-1988 
Vir 08-04-1988 
Leo =: 18-05-1988 
Can 27-06-1988 
Gem D 06-08-1988 
TauJ 15-09-1988 
Ari —- 25-10-1988 
04-12-1988 
13-01-1989 
22-02-1989 
03-04-1989 


Sag 13-05-1989 
Cap 22-06-1989 
Aqu 01-08-1989 
Pis 10-09-1989 
Ari 20-10-1989 
Tau J 29-11-1989 
Gem D 08-01-1990 
Can 17-02-1990 
Leo 29-03-1990 
Vir 08-05-1990 
i 17-06-1990 
27-07-1990 


Cap 05-09-1990 
Sag 15-10-1990 
Sco 24-11-1990 
Lib 03-01-1991 
Vir 12-02-1991 
Leo 24-03-1991 
Can 03-05-1991 
Gem D 12-06-1991 
TauJ 22-07-1991 
Ari 31-08-1991 
Pis 10-10-1991 
Aqu 19-11-1991 


Leo 29-12-1991 
Vir 07-02-1992 
Lib 18-03-1992 
Sco 27-04-1992 
06-06-1992 
16-07-1992 
25-08-1992 
04-10-1992 
13-11-1992 
TauJ 23-12-1992 
Gem D 01-02-1993 
Can 13-03-1993 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 47 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Jaimini System 


Jaimini System 


Chara Karakas Navamsha 
AK AmkK BK MK GK DK 


Sat Ven Mar Jup Mer | Mon Sun 
21:47 | 21:00 | 16:22 | 15:00 | 13:13 | 05:35 | 04:07 Mo 


AS Gk 


19 Nov 1917 23:11:00 hrs., Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India Sa 


JuR | Ke Gk Ke 


Pada Chart 


Sa As 


1P.12P 


Mo Ma 


3P 


Ra Ve | Su Me 


8P 10P| 2P 6P 7P 


Karakamsha (in Birth Chart) Swamsha (in Navamsha) Upapada Lagna 


JuR | Ke Gk As Gk JuR Ra 


Sa As Mo 


Mo Ma 


Ra Ve | Su Me Ve Me 


Jaimini Aspects Special Points 


Aspects between Planets in dual signs: Jaimini Hora Lagna : Sagittarius 18:42:14 
Ve-Ra-Ke Varnada Lagna : Leo 


Pranpada Lagna : Gemini 10:21:08 
Karakamsha(in Nav) : Capricorn 
Arudha Lagna : Cancer 
Upapada : Scorpio 

Yogi : Sa 

Ava Yogi : Mo 

Dagdha Rashis : Ari,Leo 
Brahma : Mercury 
Maheshwara : Saturn 

Rudra : Saturn 


Aspects between Planets in movable and 
fixed signs: Mo-Su, Mo-Ma, Mo-Me, 
Mo-Ju, Sa-Su, Sa-Me, Sa-Ju 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 48 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Jaimini Chara Dasha #1 


Jaimini Chara Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. * Running age is given for beginning of dasha. 


Cancer (6y) dyOm* Gemini (Sy) sylim ‘Taurus (7y) 10yl0m_ Aries (4y) 17y8m 


Beginning 19-11-1917 Beginning 19-10-1923 Beginning 22-09-1928 Beginning 17-08-1935 
Ending 19-10-1923 Ending 22-09-1928 17-08-1935 Ending 27-07-1939 
Gem 19-11-1917 Tau 19-10-1923 22-09-1928 Tau 17-08-1935 

Tau 18-05-1918 Ari 17-03-1924 20-04-1929 Gem 15-12-1935 

Ari 14-11-1918 Pis 14-08-1924 16-11-1929 Can 13-04-1936 

Pis 13-05-1919 Aqu 11-01-1925 14-06-1930 Leo 11-08-1936 

Aqu 09-11-1919 Cap 10-06-1925 10-01-1931 Vir 09-12-1936 

Cap  ——- 07-05-1920 Sag 07-11-1925 08-08-1931 Lib 08-04-1937 

Sag 03-11-1920 Sco 06-04-1926 05-03-1932 Sco 06-08-1937 

Sco 02-05-1921 Lib 03-09-1926 01-10-1932 Sag 04-12-1937 
29-10-1921 Vir 31-01-1927 29-04-1933 Cap —- 03-04-1938 

Vir 27-04-1922 Leo 30-06-1927 25-11-1933 Aqu —_ 01-08-1938 

Leo 24-10-1922 Can =. 27-11-1927 23-06-1934 Pis 29-11-1938 

Can 22-04-1923 Gem 25-04-1928 19-01-1935 Ari 29-03-1939 


Pisces (10y) 2ly8m Aquarius (2y) 3ly6m Capricorn (6y)  33y6m Sagittarius (Sy)  39y5m 


Beginning 27-07-1939 Beginning 04-06-1949 Beginning 25-05-1951 Beginning 23-04-1957 
Ending 04-06-1949 Ending 25-05-1951 Ending 23-04-1957 Ending 28-03-1962 
27-07-1939 12 Pis 04-06-1949 Sag 25-05-1951 Sco 23-04-1957 
22-05-1940 Ari 03-08-1949 Sco 21-11-1951 Lib 20-09-1957 

18-03-1941 02-10-1949 i 19-05-1952 i 17-02-1958 

12-01-1942 01-12-1949 15-11-1952 17-07-1958 

08-11-1942 30-01-1950 14-05-1953 14-12-1958 

04-09-1943 31-03-1950 10-11-1953 13-05-1959 

30-06-1944 30-05-1950 09-05-1954 10-10-1959 

26-04-1945 29-07-1950 05-11-1954 i 08-03-1960 

Sag 20-02-1946 27-09-1950 04-05-1955 i 05-08-1960 

Cap 17-12-1946 Sag 26-11-1950 31-10-1955 02-01-1961 

Aqu 13-10-1947 Cap =. 25-01-1951 28-04-1956 01-06-1961 

Pis 08-08-1948 Aqu 26-03-1951 25-10-1956 29-10-1961 


moe ernanh wn = 


— 


Scorpio (9y) 44y4m Libra (2y) 53y2m_ Virgo (10y) 55y2m Leo (9y) 65y0m 


Beginning 28-03-1962 Beginning 09-02-1971 Beginning 29-01-1973 Beginning 08-12-1982 
Ending 09-02-1971 Ending 29-01-1973 Ending 08-12-1982 Ending 22-10-1991 
28-03-1962 Sco 09-02-1971 Lib 29-01-1973 i 08-12-1982 
23-12-1962 Sag 10-04-1971 Sco 25-11-1973 1 04-09-1983 
19-09-1963 Cap 09-06-1971 Sag 21-09-1974 31-05-1984 
15-06-1964 08-08-1971 18-07-1975 25-02-1985 
12-03-1965 07-10-1971 13-05-1976 22-11-1985 
07-12-1965 06-12-1971 i 09-03-1977 19-08-1986 
03-09-1966 04-02-1972 i 03-01-1978 16-05-1987 
31-05-1967 04-04-1972 30-10-1978 10-02-1988 
25-02-1968 03-06-1972 26-08-1979 06-11-1988 
21-11-1968 02-08-1972 21-06-1980 03-08-1989 
18-08-1969 i 01-10-1972 17-04-1981 30-04-1990 
15-05-1970 1 30-11-1972 i 11-02-1982 25-01-1991 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 49 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Jaimini Chara Dasha #2 


Jaimini Chara Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. * Running age is given for beginning of dasha. 


Cancer (6y) 73yllm Gemini (5y) 79y10m Taurus (7y) 84y9m Aries (4y) 91y8m 
Beginning 22-10-1991 Beginning 20-09-1997 Beginning 25-08-2002 Beginning 19-07-2009 
Ending 20-09-1997 Ending 25-08-2002 Ending 19-07-2009 Ending 28-06-2013 
Gem = 22-10-1991 Tau 20-09-1997 Ari 25-08-2002 Tau 19-07-2009 

Tau 19-04-1992 Ari 17-02-1998 Pis 23-03-2003 Gem 16-11-2009 

Ari 16-10-1992 Pis 17-07-1998 Aqu 19-10-2003 Can 16-03-2010 

Pis 14-04-1993 Aqu 14-12-1998 Cap 16-05-2004 Leo 14-07-2010 

Aqu 11-10-1993 Cap 13-05-1999 Sag 12-12-2004 Vir 11-11-2010 

Cap 09-04-1994 Sag 10-10-1999 Sco 10-07-2005 Lib 11-03-2011 

Sag 06-10-1994 Sco 08-03-2000 Lib 05-02-2006 Sco 09-07-2011 

Sco 04-04-1995 Lib 05-08-2000 Vir 03-09-2006 Sag 06-11-2011 
01-10-1995 Vir 02-01-2001 Leo 01-04-2007 Cap  ——- 05-03-2012 

Vir 29-03-1996 Leo 01-06-2001 Can = 28-10-2007 Aqu 03-07-2012 

Leo 25-09-1996 Can 29-10-2001 Gem =. 25-05-2008 Pis 31-10-2012 

Can —_ 24-03-1997 Gem 28-03-2002 Tau 21-12-2008 Ari 28-02-2013 


Pisces (10y) 95y7m Aquarius(2y)  105ySm Capricorn (6y) 107ysm Sagittarius (Sy) 113y4m 
Beginning 28-06-2013 Beginning 07-05-2023 Beginning 26-04-2025 Beginning 26-03-2031 
Ending 07-05-2023 Ending 26-04-2025 Ending 26-03-2031 Ending 28-02-2036 
i 28-06-2013 12 Pis 07-05-2023 Sag 26-04-2025 Sco —- 26-03-2031 
24-04-2014 Ari 06-07-2023 Sco 23-10-2025 Lib 23-08-2031 

18-02-2015 04-09-2023 Lib 21-04-2026 i 20-01-2032 

15-12-2015 03-11-2023 i 18-10-2026 18-06-2032 

10-10-2016 02-01-2024 16-04-2027 15-11-2032 

06-08-2017 02-03-2024 13-10-2027 14-04-2033 

02-06-2018 01-05-2024 10-04-2028 11-09-2033 

29-03-2019 30-06-2024 07-10-2028 i 08-02-2034 

Sag 23-01-2020 29-08-2024 05-04-2029 i 08-07-2034 

Cap 18-11-2020 Sag 28-10-2024 i 02-10-2029 05-12-2034 

Aqu 14-09-2021 Cap 27-12-2024 31-03-2030 04-05-2035 

Pis 11-07-2022 Aqu 25-02-2025 27-09-2030 01-10-2035 


= 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0 
1 


— 


Scorpio (9y) 118y3m_ Libra (2y) 127ylm_ Virgo (10y) 129yIm_ Leo (Qy) 138y11m 


Beginning 28-02-2036 Beginning 11-01-2045 Beginning 01-01-2047 Beginning 09-11-2056 
Ending 11-01-2045 Ending 01-01-2047 Ending 09-11-2056 Ending 23-09-2065 
28-02-2036 Sco 11-01-2045 Lib 01-01-2047 i 09-11-2056 
24-11-2036 Sag 12-03-2045 Sco 28-10-2047 i 06-08-2057 
21-08-2037 Cap 11-05-2045 Sag 23-08-2048 03-05-2058 
18-05-2038 10-07-2045 19-06-2049 28-01-2059 
12-02-2039 08-09-2045 15-04-2050 25-10-2059 
09-11-2039 07-11-2045 09-02-2051 21-07-2060 
05-08-2040 06-01-2046 1 06-12-2051 17-04-2061 
02-05-2041 07-03-2046 01-10-2052 12-01-2062 
27-01-2042 06-05-2046 28-07-2053 09-10-2062 
24-10-2042 05-07-2046 24-05-2054 06-07-2063 
21-07-2043 03-09-2046 20-03-2055 01-04-2064 
16-04-2044 i 02-11-2046 14-01-2056 27-12-2064 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 50 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Sthira Dasha 


Sthira Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. *Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Scorpio (8y) Oyrs.* Sagittarius (9y)  7ys Capricorn(7y)  l6ys Aquarius (8y) 23yrs 
Beginning 19-11-1917 Beginning 08-10-1925 Beginning 22-08-1934 Beginning 16-07-1941 
Ending 08-10-1925 Ending 22-08-1934 Ending 16-07-1941 Ending 04-06-1949 


Sco 19-11-1917 Sag 08-10-1925 10 Cap 22-08-1934 Leo 16-07-1941 
i 17-07-1918 05-07-1926 Sag 20-03-1935 Vir 13-03-1942 
14-03-1919 01-04-1927 16-10-1935 Lib 08-11-1942 
09-11-1919 27-12-1927 13-05-1936 Sco 06-07-1943 
06-07-1920 22-09-1928 09-12-1936 Sag 02-03-1944 
03-03-1921 19-06-1929 07-07-1937 Cap 28-10-1944 
29-10-1921 16-03-1930 02-02-1938 Aqu = 25-06-1945 
26-06-1922 11-12-1930 31-08-1938 Pis 20-02-1946 
21-02-1923 07-09-1931 29-03-1939 Ari 18-10-1946 
19-10-1923 03-06-1932 25-10-1939 Tau 15-06-1947 

Cap 15-06-1924 i 28-02-1933 22-05-1940 Gem 10-02-1948 
Sag 10-02-1925 25-11-1933 18-12-1940 Can 07-10-1948 


Ne NWN DH 1 © OO 


— 
—_. 


Pisces (9y) 3lyrs_ Aries (7y) 40yrs Taurus (8y) 47yrs Gemini (9y) 55yrs 
Beginning 04-06-1949 Beginning 18-04-1958 Beginning 12-03-1965 Beginning 29-01-1973 
Ending 18-04-1958 Ending 12-03-1965 Ending 29-01-1973 Ending 13-12-1981 


12 Pis 04-06-1949 Ari 18-04-1958 Sco 12-03-1965 Sag 29-01-1973 
11. Aqu 01-03-1950 Tau 14-11-1958 Lib 07-11-1965 Cap 26-10-1973 
10 Cap 26-11-1950 Gem 12-06-1959 Vir 05-07-1966 23-07-1974 
Sag 23-08-1951 Can 08-01-1960 02-03-1967 19-04-1975 
Sco 19-05-1952 Leo 05-08-1960 28-10-1967 14-01-1976 
i 13-02-1953 Vir 03-03-1961 24-06-1968 10-10-1976 
10-11-1953 Lib 29-09-1961 19-02-1969 07-07-1977 
07-08-1954 Sco 27-04-1962 17-10-1969 03-04-1978 
04-05-1955 Sag 23-11-1962 14-06-1970 29-12-1978 
29-01-1956 Cap 21-06-1963 09-02-1971 i 25-09-1979 
25-10-1956 17-01-1964 07-10-1971 i 21-06-1980 
22-07-1957 Pis 14-08-1964 Sag 03-06-1972 18-03-1981 


\o 


= Nw UH ~1 


Cancer (7y) 64yrs 70yrs Virgo (9y) 78yrs_ Libra (7y) 87yrs 
Beginning 13-12-1981 Beginning 06-11-1988 Beginning 25-09-1996 Beginning 09-08-2005 
06-11-1988 Ending 25-09-1996 Ending 09-08-2005 Ending 03-07-2012 


10 Cap 13-12-1981 06-11-1988 12 Pi 25-09-1996 Ari 09-08-2005 
Sag 11-07-1982 04-07-1989 11 22-06-1997 Tau 07-03-2006 
06-02-1983 01-03-1990 10 19-03-1998 Gem 03-10-2006 
04-09-1983 27-10-1990 14-12-1998 Can 01-05-2007 
01-04-1984 24-06-1991 10-09-1999 27-11-2007 
28-10-1984 19-02-1992 06-06-2000 i 24-06-2008 
26-05-1985 16-10-1992 03-03-2001 i 20-01-2009 
22-12-1985 13-06-1993 28-11-2001 18-08-2009 
20-07-1986 08-02-1994 25-08-2002 16-03-2010 
15-02-1987 06-10-1994 22-05-2003 12-10-2010 
13-09-1987 03-06-1995 16-02-2004 10-05-2011 
10-04-1988 29-01-1996 12-11-2004 i 06-12-2011 


m= Ne NY wR H ~1 GO OS 
\o 


ma Nw UH ~1 


—_ 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 51 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Sadhesati of Saturn 


According to Jyotish Tatva Prakash 


Bes TART weTt fetta a yA: 


Wai Bat salir aa e:eaa Va 


The seven and a half year period during which Saturn transits in the twelfth, first and second 
houses from the birth rashi (Moon sign) is called the Sadhesati of Saturn. 


Your birth rashi is Capricorn therefore the period during which Saturn transits in 


Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius is called Sadhesati of Saturn 


One Sadhesati is made up of three periods of approximately two and half years each, because 
Saturn travels in one rashi for two and half years. 


Normally in the lifetime of a person, the Sadhesati of Saturn occurs three times. 


The following table shows the beginning and end of each Sadhesati. 


Sadhesati Cycle 


First Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Second Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Third Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Transit 
of Saturn 


Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 


Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 


Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 


Beginning 
Date 


24-12-1928 
25-05-1931 
11-04-1931 
24-12-1931 
15-03-1934 
07-12-1934 


08-02-1958 
07-11-1958 
01-02-1961 
07-10-1961 
27-01-1964 
03-11-1966 


16-12-1987 
20-06-1990 
20-03-1990 
14-12-1990 
05-03-1993 
09-11-1993 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Ending 
Date 


11-04-1931 
24-12-1931 
25-05-1931 
15-03-1934 
13-09-1934 
25-02-1937 


02-06-1958 
01-02-1961 
17-09-1961 
27-01-1964 
08-04-1966 
19-12-1966 


20-03-1990 
14-12-1990 
20-06-1990 
05-03-1993 
15-10-1993 
02-06-1995 


Duration 
Yr-Mn-Dy 


2-3-17 
0-6-29 
0-1-14 
2-2-21 
0-5-28 
2-2-18 


Ashtakavarga 
Saturn Sarva 


23 


22 


25 


HP3 «52 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn 


Transit of Saturn in fourth and eighth house from the Moon sign is called Laghu Kalyani Dhayya. 


HeAoh Wears a carga weary | 


Your birth rashi is Capricorn. Therefore, in transit when Saturn is in Aries — the fourth house, 


and in Leo — the eighth house from the Moon, this period is called the Laghu Kalyani Dhayya. 


Transit of Saturn in the fourth, seventh and tenth house from the Moon is called Kantaka Saturn. 


Your Moon sign is Capricorn. Therefore, the period during which Saturn transits in Aries, Cancer 


and Libra is the period of Kantaka Saturn. 


The period of Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn are as follows — 


First cycle of Dhayya 

Kantaka Saturn in fourth house 
and Laghu Kalyani Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in 

seventh house 

Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in 
eighth house 

Kantaka Saturn in 


tenth house 


Transit 
of Saturn 


Aries 
Aries 
Cancer 
Cancer 
Leo 
Leo 
Libra 
Libra 


Begining 
date 


14-03-1919 
18-09-1918 
03-06-1919 
15-10-1923 
13-05-1926 


Ending 
Date 


18-09-1918 
03-06-1919 
14-03-1919 
16-11-1920 
01-01-1926 
29-09-1926 


Interval 
Yr-Mn-Dy 


Ashtakvarga 
Saturn Sarva. 


33 


24 


27 


30 


Second cycle of Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in fourth house 
and Laghu Kalyani Dhayya 


Kantaka Saturn in 
seventh house 

Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in 
eighth house 

Kantaka Saturn in 


tenth house 


Aries 
Aries 
Cancer 
Cancer 
Leo 
Leo 
Libra 
Libra 


27-04-1939 
14-12-1941 


22-09-1945 
08-06-1946 


26-07-1948 


25-11-1952 
21-08-1953 


18-06-1941 
03-03-1942 


22-12-1945 
26-07-1948 


20-09-1950 


24-04-1953 
12-11-1955 


Third cycle of Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in fourth house 
Laghu Kalyani Dhayya 

Kantaka Saturn in 
seventh house 

Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in 
eighth house 

Kantaka Saturn in 


tenth house 


Aries 
Aries 
Cancer 


Cancer 
Leo 
Leo 


Libra 
Libra 


17-06-1968 
07-03-1969 


23-07-1975 


07-09-1977 
14-03-1980 
06-10-1982 
31-05-1985 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


28-09-1968 
28-04-1971 


07-09-1977 


03-11-1979 
27-07-1980 
21-12-1984 
16-09-1985 


HP3 «53 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Krishnamurti Paddhati - Chart 


Krishnamurti Paddhati 


19 November 1917 ¢ 23:11 hrs. « Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India 
Planet R/C _ Sign Degree Nakshatra Pada RL NL SL 


Lagna Can 27:10:56  Ashlesha Mo Me Ju 
Sun Sco 04:13:35 Anuradha Ma Sa _ Sa 
Moon Cap 05:41:22 Uttarashadha Sa Su 
Mars Leo 16:28:34 — Poorva Phalg. Ve 
Mercury Sco 13:19:50 Anuradha 
Jupiter Tau 15:06:11 Rohini 

Venus Sag 21:06:24 Poorvashadha 
Saturn Can 21:53:18  Ashlesha 
Rahu Sag 09:18:21 Moola 

Ketu Gem 09:18:21 Ardra 

Uranus Cap 27:21:15 | Dhanishta 
Neptune Can 14:28:10 Pushya 

Pluto Gem 12:33:37 — Ardra 


Sa 
Ra 


NOBNRF WN WN WRK WHY 


Birth Chart Cuspal Chart 


JuR JuR Ke Gk 


Mo Ra Ve 


Bhava Details (Placidus System) 
House cusp Sign Degree Nakshatra Pada RL 


1.First Can 27:10:56  Ashlesha Mo 
2.Second Leo 22:58:51 — Poorva Phalg. Su 
3.Third Vir 22:33:40 —- Hasta Me 
4.Fourth Lib 24:46:49 ~~ Vishakha Ve 
5.Fifth Sco 27:07:09 = Jyeshtha Ma 
6.Sixth Sag 27:59:30 Uttarashadha Ju 
7.Seventh Cap 27:10:56 Dhanishta 
8.Eighth Aqu 22:58:51 Poorvabhadra 
9.Ninth Pis 22:33:40 —Revati 
10.Tenth Ari 24:46:49 — Bharani 
11.Eleventh Tau 27:07:09  Mrigasira 

12. Twelfth Gem 27:59:30 — Punarvasu 


WNABNK NRK HRY BPW HL 


Parashara's Light - PE (c) GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 54 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Krishnamurti Paddhati - Significators 


Krishnamurti Paddhati 


Significations of the Houses 


House Planets in nak. Occupants _— Planets in nak. Cusp sign lord 
of occupants of cusp sign lord 


. First 

. Second 

. Third 

. Fourth 
Fifth 

. Sixth 

. Seventh 

. Eighth 

. Ninth 

10. Tenth 
11. Eleventh 
12. Twelfth Su,Me 


Mo 


Houses Signified by Planets 


Planet Planets as significators of houses 
Very strong Strong Normal Weak 
significator — significator significator — significator 


Sun 278 
Moon 12 
Mars 10 11 
Mercury 7 8 
Jupiter 6 9 
Venus 

Saturn 378 
Rahu 

Ketu 


Ruling Planets 


Day lord : Moon : Vir 28:38:43 
Lagna lord : Moon Bal. of dasha > Sun ly 11m 0d 
Lagna Nak Lord : Mercury KP Ayanamsha > -22:36:48 
Lagna Sub Lord : Jupiter 

Moon Rashilord —: Saturn 

Moon Nak. lord : Sun 

Moon Sub lord : Mercury 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 55 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Completed : | year 
20 November 1918 05:21 hrs. 


Completed : 2 years 
20 November 1919 11:30 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #1 


Completed : 3 years 
19 November 1920 17:37 hrs. 


Ke Mo 
Gk JuR 


Ke 


Ke As 


Ju 


Sa 


Ve Su 
RaMe | 4S 


Ra Su Ma Ve 
Me Mo Mun 


Ra MeR 
Mun 


19:45 Ma 13:46 Ve 03:07 
04:07 Me 23:13 Sa 05:09 
27:11 Ju 22:39 = Ra = 20:18 
Saturn Mun Leo 27:04:53 


Completed : 4 years 
19 November 1921 23:44 hrs. 


15:46 Ma 01:30 Ve 17:27 
04:07 Me 24:46 Sa 17:56 


08:16 Ju 25:01 Ra 02:06 
Mars Mun Vir 27:04:52 


Completed : 5 years 
20 November 1922 05:54 hrs. 


11:17 01:04 Ve 
04:07 26:45 Sa 
11:34 23:04 Ra 
Saturn Mun Lib 27:04:52 


Completed : 6 years 
20 November 1923 12:07 hrs. 


Ke Mo 


Ke 


As Gk 


Ma 


Sa Ma 


Ve Me Ju Ra 


Su Mun 


Mun Su VeR 


Ju Me 
Mo As 


Ra Sa 


Su Ju 
Me Ve Sa 


04:25 Ma 15:14 Ve 14:34 
04:07 Me 15:11 Sa 11:57 
28:10 Ju 18:25 Ra 24:33 
Sun Mun Sco 27:04:52 


As 26:52 Ma 21:33 Ve 12:29 
Su 04:07 Me 24:37 Sa 23:17 


Mo 17:47) Ju 12:26 Ra 05:14 
YL Mars Mun Sag 27:04:52 


26:40 28:21 Ve 22:15 
04:07 06:33 Sa 04:15 
28:41 06:13 Ra 15:29 
Saturn Cap 27:04:53 


Completed : 7 years 
19 November 1924 18:20 hrs. 


Completed : 8 years 
20 November 1925 00:28 hrs. 


Completed : 9 years 
20 November 1926 06:36 hrs. 


As 


Mun 


MaR Mun Mo Ra 


Ke 


Su Me | Gk Sa 


Mo Ve 


Su Me | Ma Sa 


Ju 


Ve Su Sa 
As MeR Gk 


22:23 Ma 20:23 Ve 27:30 
04:07 Me 17:51 Sa 14:56 
01:51 Ju 00:45 Ra 24:35 
Venus Mun Aqu 27:04:53 


Completed : 10 years 
20 November 1927 12:46 hrs. 


As 14:08 Ma 11:19 Ve 21:07 
Su 04:07 Me 25:49 Sa 25:22 
Mo 20:33 Ju 27:08 Ra 04:25 
YL ‘Jupiter Mun Pis 27:04:53 


Completed : 11 years 
19 November 1928 18:51 hrs. 


05:57 Ma 13:39 Ve 03:45 
04:07 Me 16:57 Sa _ 05:38 
08:53 Ju 26:40 Ra = 14:54 
Moon Mun Ari 27:04:53 


Completed : 12 years 
20 November 1929 01:00 hrs. 


Gk Ra Mun 


MaR Gk 
JuR Ra As Mun 


Ra JuR Gk 


Su Sa 


Ke Ve Mo 


Me Ma 


Me 


Ve Ke 
Me 


08:42 Ma 24:27 Ve 17:26 
04:07 Me 16:44 Sa 15:47 
19:19 Ju 00:45 Ra _ 26:02 
Saturn Mun Tau 27:04:53 


16:02 Ve 09:56 
18:22 Sa 25:53 
09:44 Ra 07:38 
Gem 27:04:52 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


08:01 Ve 15:11 

29:40 Sa 05:59 

20:19 Ra 19:16 
Mun Can 27:04:52 


HP3 * 56 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Completed : 13 years 
20 November 1930 07:10 hrs. 


Completed : 14 years 
20 November 1931 13:20 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #2 


Completed : 15 years 
19 November 1932 19:29 hrs. 


Ra 


Mo Ra 


As 


Su VeR 


Me As Ke Mo 


Sa Gk 


Su Me 


Ma Ve Ke Mun 


Gk Sa 


Mun 


Su Me 


19:16 Ve 08:27 
Su 04:07 Me 11:31 Sa 16:10 
Mo 29:34 Ju 27:23 Ra 00:31 
YL. Sun Mun Leo 27:04:52 


As 13:18 Ma 


Completed : 16 years 
20 November 1933 01:35 hrs. 


22:52 
26:30 


As 19:58 Ma 22:15 Ve 


Su 04:07 Me 21:57 Sa 


Mo 09:23 Ju 29:07 Ra 11:18 


YL Mars Mun Vir 27:04:52 


Completed : 17 years 
20 November 1934 07:45 hrs. 


28:01 
07:02 


08:36 
04:07 


09:47 Ve 
25:50 Sa 


26:42 Ra 20:53 


Mun Lib 27:04:52 


13:31 
Venus 


Completed : 18 years 
20 November 1935 14:00 hrs. 


Mo 


As 


Gk 


Sa 


Ra Sa 


Gk Mun 


MeR Su 
Mun Ju 


Mo Ma 
Ve 


Me Ju 


Su Ve 
Mun ‘As 


Ra Ma Su Ju Me 


07:28 Ve 21:13 
17:52 


00:33 


As 29:16 Ma 
Su 04:07 Me 02:07 Sa 
Mo 04:22 Ju 21:47. Ra 
YL Sun Mun Sco 27:04:52 


04:23 
29:03 
10:32 


As 20:48 Ma 25:51 Ve 
Su 04:07 Me 14:41 Sa 
Mo 20:47. Ju 15:42. Ra 


YL Mars Mun Sag 27:04:52 


17:27 
10:40 


24:03 Ve 
22:53 Sa 


As 03:30 
Su 04:07 


09:31 Ra 21:00 


Cap 27:04:53 


Mo 29:25 
YL Mars 


Completed : 19 years 
19 November 1936 20:09 hrs. 


Completed : 20 years 
20 November 1937 02:18 hrs. 


Completed : 21 years 
20 November 1938 08:28 hrs. 


Ke As 


SaR Mun Ke Mo 


Gk Ke 
SaR Mun 


Ju 


Ra Ju Ma Gk 


Ve Su Me 


Su Ra 
Me Ve 


Su VeR 


Me Mo Ra Ma 


10:28 
22:48 
01:30 


As 17:32, Ma 09:59 Ve 
Su 04:07 Me 04:47 Sa 
Mo 04:37) Ju 04:14 Ra 


YL Saturn Mun Aqu 27:04:53 


Completed : 22 years 
20 November 1939 14:37 hrs. 


08:50 Ma 13:00 Ve 
04:07 Me 16:15 Sa 
25:43 Ju 00:58 Ra 


Mercury Mun Pis 27:04:53 


Completed : 23 years 
19 November 1940 20:45 hrs. 


04:21 
18:45 
24:48 


00:25 Ma 23:16 Ve 
04:07 Me 25:06 Sa 
12:08 Ju 01:03 Ra 


Mars) Mun Ari 27:04:53 


Completed : 24 years 
20 November 1941 02:54 hrs. 


JuR Gk 
As 


SaR Ke Mun 


As Mo 
Mun 


Ke JuR SaR} Gk 


Ma SaR JuR 


Ma Mo 


Ke 


Ra 


Su MeR 
Ve Ra 


Su Ma MeR! Ra Ve 


Gk Me As 


23:29 
02:37 
05:58 


As 16:15 Ma 07:26 Ve 
Su 04:07 Me 20:38 Sa 
Mo 19:22) Ju 05:53 Ra 


YL ~~ Jupiter ~Mun Tau 27:04:53 


28:33 
17:01 
16:49 


Ma 06:15 Ve 
Me 19:14 Sa 
Ju 15:24 Ra 
Mun Gem 27:04:53 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


21:16 
01:50 
27:15 


18:36 Ve 

17:02 Sa 

25:47 Ra 
Mun Can 27:04:53 


HP3 * 57 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Completed : 25 years 
20 November 1942 09:01 hrs. 


Completed : 26 years 
20 November 1943 15:12 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #3 


Completed : 27 years 
19 November 1944 21:17 hrs. 


Mo SaR 


As MaR SaR 


SaR Ra 


JuR 


Ra 


As Gk 


Ra Mun 


Ju Mo 


As Gk | Su Ve | Ma Me 


py ide Ve Mun 


Ma Su 


Ve Mo 
Ke Me Mun Ju 


05:01 
16:55 
07:09 


As 07:45 Ma 19:16 Ve 
Su 04:07 Me 27:52 Sa 
Mo 03:11 Ju 02:05 Ra 


YL. Mars Mun Leo 27:04:52 


Completed : 28 years 
20 November 1945 03:22 hrs. 


17:31 
02:03 


28:13 Ma 25:18 Ve 


04:07 Me 09:48 Sa 


09:04 Ju 03:06 Ra _ 16:44 


Mars Mun Vir 27:04:53 


Completed : 29 years 
20 November 1946 09:36 hrs. 


10:58 
17:01 
26:26 


02:38 Ve 

20:35 Sa 

00:13. Ra 
Mun Lib 27:04:52 


02:29 
04:07 
18:04 
Mars 


Completed : 30 years 
20 November 1947 15:47 hrs. 


Mo Ra Gk 


Ra 


As Ra 


SaR Ma 


Gk 


Mun Mo 


Su Me Ve 


Mun As Ju 


VeR Su MeR 
As Mun | “ \4a Ke Ju Mo 


Ke Su 
Gk Ju Ve Me 


Ve 16:26 
01:38 
07:09 


23:19 Ma 
04:07 Me 26:15 Sa 
08:04 Ju 25:03 Ra 
Mercury Mun Sco 27:04:51 


08:41 


00:17 
15:46 


As 16:05 Ma _ 16:36 Ve 


Su 04:07 Me 07:47 Sa 


Mo 24:38 Ju 18:53. Ra 18:41 


YL = Moon Mun Sag 27:04:52 


24:05 
29:22 


02:34 Ve 
14:43 Sa 


09:38 
04:07 


12:46 Ra _ 00:16 


Cap 27:04:53 


28:54 
Saturn 


Completed : 31 years 
19 November 1948 22:00 hrs. 


Completed : 32 years 
20 November 1949 04:11 hrs. 


Completed : 33 years 
20 November 1950 10:16 hrs. 


Ra 


Ra Mun 


Ra Gk 


Mo Mun 


Ju 


Gk Ma 
Sa 


Ma Ju Su Ke Me 


Me Su | As Mo Ke 


Ma As Ke Sa 


Su Ve 
Me 


29:05 
12:22 
11:40 


01:24 Ve 
21:13 Sa 
07:44 Ra 


As 11:38 Ma 
Su 04:07 Me 
Mo 09:52 Ju 


YL Mercury Mun Aqu 27:04:53 


Completed : 34 years 
20 November 1951 16:28 hrs. 


21:17 
24:50 
22:55 


04:11 Ma 
04:07 Me 02:59 Sa 
29:00 Ju 04:53 Ra 
Venus Mun Pis 27:04:54 


19:54 Ve 


Completed : 35 years 
19 November 1952 22:36 hrs. 


05:39 
06:47 


As 25:55 Ma 17:22 Ve 


Su 04:07 Me 14:37 Sa 


Mo 15:33) Ju 05:37) Ra 03:31 


YL Saturn Mun Ari 27:04:53 


Completed : 36 years 
20 November 1953 04:41 hrs. 


JuR As Mun 


JuR Mun 


Mo JuR 


Ra Gk Mo 


As Ke 


Ke Mun 


Ke 


Ma Ra 


Ma Ve 
Sa 


Su Me 


Mo Ve | Su Me Gk Sa 


Sa As 


Ve Mer | Ma Gk 


17:37 
18:16 
12:41 


22:17 Ma 04:37 Ve 
04:07 Me 24:09 Sa 
19:01 Ju 11:13. Ra 


Moon Mun Tau 27:04:53 


11:29 
29:22 
22:24 


As 19:31 Ma 05:12 Ve 
Su 04:07 Me 23:17. Sa 
Mo 01:49 Ju 21:11 Ra 


YG Mars Mun Gem 27:04:53 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


17:03 
10:09 
02:30 


18:09 Ve 

22:53 Sa 

Ol:11 Ra 
Mun Can 27:04:52 


HP3 « 58 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Completed : 37 years 
20 November 1954 10:56 hrs. 


Completed : 38 years 
20 November 1955 17:02 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #4 


Completed : 39 years 
19 November 1956 23:09 hrs. 


Gk As Ke 


Ke Mo 


Ju 


Me Sa 
Su Gk VeR 


Sa Su 


Ra Ve Ma Me 


Mun 


Su Ra 


Me Sa Ju Ve 


Mun 


26:15 
20:39 
13:06 


06:16 Ma 26:50 Ve 
04:07 Me 15:54 Sa 
06:28 Ju 06:41 Ra 


Mars Mun Leo 27:04:53 


Completed : 40 years 
20 November 1957 05:19 hrs. 


24:42 
00:58 


01:52 Ma 01:12 Ve 


04:07 Me 26:05 Sa 


09:01 Ju 07:03 Ra 24:11 


Moon Mun Vir 27:04:53 


Completed : 41 years 
20 November 1958 11:25 hrs. 


29:37 
11:09 
05:45 


29:08 Ve 

08:02 Sa 

03:44 Ra 
Mun Lib 27:04:52 


26:38 
04:07 
23:12 
Moon 


Completed : 42 years 
20 November 1959 17:41 hrs. 


Ke Gk 


MaR 


Ke As Mo 


Gk 


Su Me 


Mo Ma 
Sa Mun Ju 


Ra As 


pa ion a aS Tu Ra 


Su a Ma Ra Ve 


21:15 
2115 
17:16 


19:08 Ma 14:10 Ve 
04:07 Me 19:07 Sa 
11:50 Ju 28:22 Ra 


Mars Mun Sco 27:04:53 


06:17 
01:20 


As 14:11 Ma 29:08 Ve 


Su 04:07 Me 26:11 Sa 


Mo 27:00 Ju 22:09 Ra 28:33 


YL Mars Mun Sag 27:04:52 


17:45 
11:29 
08:55 


12:21 Ma 27:23 Ve 
04:07 Me 13:07. Sa 
29:43 Ju 16:09 Ra 


Mercury Mun Cap 27:04:53 


Completed : 43 years 
19 November 1960 23:51 hrs. 


Completed : 44 years 
20 November 1961 05:55 hrs. 


Completed : 45 years 
20 November 1962 12:10 hrs. 


Ma 


Mun Mo 


Mun 


Gk As 
Ra 


Su Mo Me 


Ju Ve 
Sa 


Su Ma 


Ve Me 
As 


Me Su VeR 


12:00 
21:43 
19:02 


As 05:59 Ma 25:20 Ve 
Su 04:07 Me 15:27 Sa 
Mo 14:41 Ju 11:22. Ra 


YL = Mars = Mun Aqu 27:04:54 


Completed : 46 years 
20 November 1963 18:17 hrs. 


17:40 
02:09 
28:57 


27:03 Ma 11:04 Ve 
04:07 Me 19:37 Sa 
03:23 Ju 08:56 Ra 


Saturn Mun Pis 27:04:53 


Completed : 47 years 
20 November 1964 00:24 hrs. 


22:21 
12:50 


24:26 Ve 
01:11 Sa 


27:32 
04:07 


10:17. Ra 08:49 


Mun Ari 27:04:54 


17:14 
Saturn 


Completed : 48 years 
20 November 1965 06:37 hrs. 


JuR As Mun Ra 


JuR Mo Ra Mun 


Ra JuR 


Sa 


Su Me Gk 


Ke Mo Ve Ma 


Su Me 
Ke Ve Gk 


Su As Ke 
Ma Ve | “ane Mo 


Gk Me 


25:18 
23:51 
18:32 


As 21:28 Ma 25:30 Ve 
Su 04:07 Me 12:57 Sa 
Mo 20:21 Ju 16:34 Ra 


YL ~~ Jupiter Mun Tau 27:04:53 


00:10 
05:15 
29:44 


13:15 Ma 13:35 Ve 
04:07 Me 23:01 Sa 
05:58 Ju 26:49 Ra 


Venus Mun Gem 27:04:53 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


21:11 
17:08 


As 06:07 Ma _ 10:58 Ve 


Su 04:07 Me 25:00 Sa 


Mo 25:35 Ju 06:21 Ra _ 11:18 


YL Moon Mun Can 27:04:54 


HP3 « 59 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Completed : 49 years 
20 November 1966 12:42 hrs. 


Completed : 50 years 
20 November 1967 18:54 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #5 


Completed : 51 years 
20 November 1968 01:02 hrs. 


Gk Ra 


As Mo 
SaR Ra Gk 


Ra SaR Gk 


Ju 


As 


Su Ve | Ke MeR 


Su Ke Me | Ve Mun 


Me Mo 


Ju Ma 
Mun Ke 


07:36 Ma 29:04 Ve 06:55 
04:07 Me 27:36 Sa 29:33 
07:16 Ju 11:05 Ra 22:43 
Saturn Mun Leo 27:04:53 


Completed : 52 years 
20 November 1969 07:04 hrs. 


00:26 Ma 27:56 Ve 17:55 
04:07 Me 15:04 Sa 12:33 


11:18 Ju 10:51 Ra 04:11 
Mercury Mun Vir 27:04:53 


Completed : 53 years 
20 November 1970 13:21 hrs. 


21:44 12:58 Ve 12:30 
04:07 24:20 Sa 26:09 
26:45 07:12) Ra 15:11 
Sun Mun Lib 27:04:53 


Completed : 54 years 
20 November 1971 19:33 hrs. 


SaR 


SaR 


SaR 


Su Me 
As Mun Ju Ve 


Gk Mun} Su Me | VeR Ju 


Su Ju 
Me Ve 


11:53 Ma 17:39 Ve 18:18 
04:07 Me 06:16 Sa _ 10:20 
17:11 Ju 01:40 Ra 25:21 
Moon Mun Sco 27:04:52 


As 20:33 Ma 26:09 Ve 18:38 
Su 04:07 Me 17:35 Sa 24:59 


Mo 27:11) Ju 25:27. Ra 04:47 
YL ‘Jupiter Mun Sag 27:04:53 


09:27 14:17. Ve 25:55 
04:07 25:43 Sa 10:00 
02:35 19:34 Ra 14:12 
Moon Cap 27:04:54 


Completed : 55 years 
20 November 1972 01:40 hrs. 


Completed : 56 years 
20 November 1973 07:54 hrs. 


Completed : 57 years 
20 November 1974 13:57 hrs. 


Mo SaR Ke 


Mun MaR Ke SaR 


As Mun Ke SaR 


Gk 


Gk 


Ju 


Ju 


JuRa | SuMeR| Ve Ma As 


Ra Ve Su As Me Mo 


Me Ma 


Su Ve 
Ra 


As 00:19 Ma 09:06 Ve 00:43 
Su 04:07 Me 17:39 Sa 25:08 
Mo 18:04 Ju 15:01 Ra 24:29 


YL Mercury Mun Aqu 27:04:53 


Completed : 58 years 
20 November 1975 20:07 hrs. 


As 22:44 Ma 02:02 Ve 21:04 
Su 04:07 Me 17:04 Sa 10:13 
Mo 09:19 Ju 13:01 Ra 05:31 
YL Moon Mun Pis 27:04:54 


Completed : 59 years 
20 November 1976 02:19 hrs. 


02:49 Ma 22:11 Ve 07:33 
04:07 Me 18:09 Sa 25:02 
16:50 Ju 14:57 Ra 16:48 
Moon Mun Ari 27:04:53 


Completed : 60 years 
20 November 1977 08:20 hrs. 


JuR Ke Mo Mun! MaR As 


Ke JuR Mun 


Mo Ke Gk JuR 


SaR 


Sa 


Ma Mun 


Gk 


Sa 


Su Ra Me | Ve Gk 


Mo Ra As 


Su Ma 
Me 


Ve Ra 


17:08 Ma 07:42 Ve 18:06 
04:07 Me 29:23 Sa 09:25 
23:34 Ju 21:54 Ra 28:16 
Mercury Mun Tau 27:04:53 


08:57 Ma 05:39 Ve 12:59 
04:07 Me 11:15 Sa 23:16 
09:09 Ju 02:22 Ra _ 09:55 
Venus Mun Gem 27:04:54 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


14:55 Ve 18:55 

21:44 Sa 06:34 

11:25 Ra 20:59 
Mun Can 27:04:52 


HP3 « 60 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Completed : 61 years 
20 November 1978 14:35 hrs. 


Completed : 62 years 
20 November 1979 20:44 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #6 


Completed : 63 years 
20 November 1980 02:47 hrs. 


Ke Gk 
As 


Gk As 


Mo 


Ma Ra 
Ju 


Su Ma 
Me VeR 


MeR Su 


Mo Ve Sa Mun 


Ve Gk | JuSa 
Me Mun As 


19:45 Ve 15:08 
19:18 


00:49 


15:57 Ma 
04:07 Me 25:57 Sa 
06:54 «Ju 15:26 Ra 
Moon Mun Leo 27:04:53 


Completed : 64 years 
20 November 1981 09:02 hrs. 


25:10 Ma 
04:07 Me 03:04 Sa 


06:45 Ve 26:31 


01:29 


14:48 Ju 14:40 Ra 
Mercury Mun Vir 27:04:53 


10:54 


Completed : 65 years 
20 November 1982 15:09 hrs. 


15:20 04:45 Ve 01:16 


04:07 14:39 Sa = 13:11 


00:25 10:42, Ra 20:45 
Mars Lib 27:04:52 


Completed : 66 years 
20 November 1983 21:22 hrs. 


As Ra 


Mo Ra 


Ke 


As Gk 


Ve Su Mun | Ju Me 


Ke Ma | Su Me 


Mo Mun| Ve Gk | S@Ju 


Su Me Sa 


Ke Ju Ma Ve 


As 08:00 Ma 
Su 04:07 Me 22:37 Sa 
Mo 22:17 Ju 05:00 Ra 
YL Jupiter Mun Sco 27:04:53 


23:18 Ve 20:53 
24:28 


00:44 


As 27:12 Ma 21:03 Ve 08:11 


Su 04:07 Me 04:29 Sa 05:24 


Mo 26:43) Ju 28:45 =Ra_ 11:03 
YL = Mars Mun Sag 27:04:53 


03:28 Ma 
04:07 Me 16:00 Sa 


07:41 Ve 18:19 


16:02 


05:52. Ju 22:57. Ra 
Moon Mun Cap 27:04:54 


22:17 


Completed : 67 years 
20 November 1984 03:37 hrs. 


Completed : 68 years 
20 November 1985 09:37 hrs. 


Completed : 69 years 
20 November 1986 15:53 hrs. 


Ra Gk 


Ra 


Ra As Mun Mo 


Ke Su 


Ve Ju Me Sa Mo As 


Su Sa 


MeR Ke Ve 


\VeR MeR| Ke 


As 26:41 Ma 
Su 04:07 Me 
Mo 22:36 Ju 


09:28 Ve 
24:58 Sa 
18:38 Ra 


13:29 
26:27 
03:47 


YL = Moon Mun Aqu 27:04:55 


Completed : 70 years 
20 November 1987 22:02 hrs. 


16:19 Ma 21:03 Ve 
04:07 Me 21:09 Sa 
13:26 Ju 17:01 Ra 
Mars Mun Pis 27:04:53 


Completed : 71 years 
20 November 1988 04:04 hrs. 


11:26 
04:07 


02:31 Ve 11:53 
19:46 Sa 16:51 


17:00 
Moon 


19:32. Ra 26:32 
Mun Ari 27:04:54 


Completed : 72 years 
20 November 1989 10:20 hrs. 


Ra JuR Mun 


Ma Mo JuR Mun 


Gk JuR 


Ra 


Ra 


Ma Me 
Mo 


Ve As 
Me 


Sa Ve 


‘As Su Me Ma 


04:03 Ve 
16:50 Sa 
27:07 Ra 
Tau 27:04:54 


27:07 
26:57 
07:12 


09:20 Ve 01:50 
27:35 Sa 07:04 
07:46 Ra 17:13 
Gem 27:04:53 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


As 26:49 
Su 04:07 


17:02 Ve 
09:31 Sa 


20:39 
17:16 


Mo 04:10 
YL Jupiter 


16:20 Ra 
Can 27:04:54 


26:49 


HP3 « 61 


INDIRA GANDHI 


~ Vedic Astrology ~ 
The Vedas are the foremost among all ancient books. All the classics of the world have been born out of 
the Vedas. The root verb of the word ‘Veda’ is ‘vid’ meaning knowledge. Through the classics of Indian 
astrology, one can easily acquire knowledge about God while learning about living beings. For this 
reason, astrology is considered to be the eyes of the Vedas. Thousands of years ago, the Saints who were 


knowledgeable about the past, the present and the future, through the power of their meditation and 
yoga, have described in detail in their astrological classics the characteristics, features, appearance and 
nature of the planets and their auspicious and inauspicious effects on the living and non living world. 
The depiction of the position of planets in the zodiac at the time and place of a person’s birth is called 
the Janma Kundali or the Horoscope. The sign which was rising in the eastern horizon at the time of 
birth is called Lagna or the Ascendant. The sign where the Moon is positioned is called the Birth Rashi 
and the constellation in which the Moon is situated is called the Birth Nakshatra. A description of the 
different parts of the Panchanga or the Hindu calendar at the time of your birth are given below: 


Ghat Month 
Ghat Tithi 
Ghat Day 

Ghat Nakshatra 


Avakhada Chakra 


Lagna 
Rashi (Moon Sign) 
Rashi lord 

Birth Nakshatra 
Nakshatra Charana 
First alphabet of name 
Rashi paya 

Nakshatra paya 
Varana 
Vashya 
Nadi 
Yoni 
Gana 


Indian Calendar 


Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 

Birth Tithi 

Yoga 

Karana 

Western Weekday 
Astrological weekday 


Ghat Chakra 


Vaishakha 
4/9/14 
Tuesday 
Rohini 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Ghat Yoga 

Ghat Karana 
Ghat Prahar : 4 
Ghat Chandra 


Cancer 
Capricorn 
Saturn 
Uttarashadha 
3 

Jah 

Copper 
Copper 
Vaishya 
Chatushpada 
Antya 
Nakula 
Manushya 


1974 

Kartikka 

Shukla Shashthi 
Ganda 

Kaulava 
Monday 
Monday 


Vaidhriti 
Shakuni 


Vrischika 


HP3 * 62 


INDIRA GANDHI 


~ Nature and Temperament ~ 


1 - She will be very sensitive and will ponder for hours over someone else's comment. 

2 - She will be very emotional and sentimental and on account of this, she may take many 
impractical decisions. 

3 - She will be more imaginative and will be progressive in her manner of thinking. 

4 - She will be hard from the outside like a crab but will be very gentle underneath. 

5 - She will be sincere towards her duties and will be respectful to her elders and teachers. 

6 - She will be fond of water, lakes, waterfalls, gardens and greenery. 

7 - She will be naturally interested in singing and will be fond of listening to music. 

8 - She will have an unstable mind but she will be endowed with some intuitive insight. 

9 - She will be very attached to her family, specially with her mother. She will be loyal to her dear 
ones. 

10 - She will fear insult, and will protect herself from the outside so that her sensitivity is not hurt. 


11 - In some circumstances she will give the impression of great strength and confidence but at 
times, she will be as agitated and helpless as a child. 

12 - She will be fond of sweet food. 

13 - She will be fond of travelling, she will love her motherland, but inspite of this she may travel 
and migrate. 

14 - She may give the impression of being open and frank, whereas in reality she may not be so and 
may conceal many things from others. 

15 - She will be attracted towards males but will not express her feelings. 

16 - The following bad habits may be present in some degree or others: impatience, changeability, 
hyper-sensitiveness, indolence, selfishness and short-temper. 


ws 


Your main Sentence 
I Feel. 


Your biggest Talent 
Trustworthy. 


Your biggest Weakness 
Carelessness. 


Your Ambition 
Getting social respect and economic safety. 


HP3 * 63 


INDIRA GANDHI 


According tethe Shastras 

Saturn is the Lord of Capricorn rashi, a person born under this sign will have beautiful eyes, thin 
waist, lower part of the body will be lean, she will be powerful, will have a firm face, round 
thighs, long neck and ears, black hair, a mole on the neck, round face, dark complexion and tall 
height, she will have patience, will be clever, sympathetic, favored by the king, fortunate. She will 
keep her word, be devoted to her mother, will rear her family, attain happiness, will be outwardly 
religious, knowledgeable in singing, shastras, will be truthful, progressive, will be a religious soul, 
occasionally unsympathetic, famous, slightly short tempered, lacking hatred, not very enthusiastic, 
critical, endowed with physical, mental and spiritual energy, fond of wandering, fond of walking, 
ambitious at work, blessed by son, friends, having a good memory, determined, interested in 
poetry, famous, capable of producing enemies because of her behaviour and enmical friends. She 
will be engrossed with husband, will be infatuated by a man but will be careful about her self 
respect. 

She will be fearful of the cold, suffering from gastric trouble and will suffer from abdominal 
pain and pain in the arms. 


According to the Modern Viewpoint 


A person born in Capricorn rashi will be very ambitious, industrious, skilled, service oriented 
and admired in society for her social work. She will be philosophical and materialistic also. She 
will be patient, hardworking and devoted. She will progress through her own efforts. She will do 
every activity in a systematic manner and will take every step after deep thought. Her personality 
will be contradictory because she will be traditional and modern, atheist and ascetic. She will be 
able to change himself According to the environment. She will be an introvert and will not expose 
what she is planning or thinking. She will take sudden decisions and will surprise everyone with 
that. She will have qualities like self-discipline, frugality in spending money, responsibility, 
maturity, dedication to hard work and sobriety. Her main drawbacks will be egoism, pessimism, 
nervousness and garrulousness. 


Physical Characteristics 
1. She will have mediocre height. 
2. Her face will be round, with plump cheeks resembling a bucket. The shape of the face will be 
neither long nor broad, rather it will be oval and streamlined. 
3. Hands, legs and lower part of the body will be stronger and healthier than the upper part. 
4. As she ages, her stomach will widen and she will have a tendency of being overweight. 
5. She will have a brisk walk and a sweet voice. 


HP3 + 64 


INDIRA GANDHI 


~ Useful Information ~ 


Your main Sentence 
I Feel. 


Your biggest Talent 
Trustworthy. 


Your biggest Weakness 
Carelessness. 


Your Ambition 
Getting social respect and economic safety. 
wc 
Lucky Day 
Monday, Tuesday and Friday. 


Lucky Colour 
White, Red and Yellow are lucky. Blue and Green are not lucky. 


Lucky Number 
2, 7, 9 are very lucky. 1, 3, 4, 6 are mediocre. 5, 8 are unlucky. 


Lucky Stone 
Pearl, Red Coral, Yellow Topaz. 


Lucky Upratna 
Moonstone. 


Inauspicious Month and Dates 
July of every year, 1, 12, 22 and 30 of every Month and Tuesday. 


Inauspicious Tithi 
Chaturthi, Navami and Chaturdashi. 


Auspicious Rashi 
A person born under Taurus, Gemini, Virgo and Aquarius will be lucky for him. 
Aries, Cancer, Leo and Scorpio will be unlucky. 
Auspicious Day 
Saturday. 


Inauspicious Period 
Month of Shravana, Shukla-paksha, Dashmi, Tuesday and Jyeshtha Nakshatra will be unfortunate. 


HP3 - 


65 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Consideration of Mangala Dosha 


Consideration of Mangala Dosha 


. According to Agastya Samhita — 


at a OT Uae Tay ay | 
wat ad fare adver eat fears 
. According to Maanasagari — 
at SY OT Uae Say ay |aA 
aan wifes ad: ae ferrari 
. According to Brihat Jyotishasara — 
aM Se Ags a MA aT sey Sat: 
WA Aye wat satarat faaryai 
. According to Bhava Deepika — 
A Sl OT Wael St aTEA aa 
war ag ferret: ae Tat arat fearvater 
. According to Brihat Parashara Hora — 
aM at TS ait May ar set gai 
Ua Sl art é a ofa ea a ATTA 
Mangala Dosha or Kuja Dosha occurs when Mars is placed in the first, second, fourth, 
seventh, eighth or twelfth house from the Birth Lagna. 


According to some ancient rishis, Mangala dosha also occurs when Mars is placed in the first, 
second, fourth, seventh, eighth or twelfth house from the Moon, Venus and the seventh lord. 


According to classics — 


wT YRS SI aaher fafa ava 

TqaR aT aa SrraTea Afar: 11 
When Mars is placed in a malefic house from the Lagna, Moon or Venus then the 
dasha of Mars may give inauspicious results according to sages. 


In general practice Mangala Dosha is considered from the Lagna and the Moon. 


INDIRA GANDHI : In the birth chart of INDIRA GANDHI Mars is placed in the second 
house from the lagna while in the Moon chart Mars is placed in eighth house from the 
Moon. Hence INDIRA GANDHI is Mangalik from the Birth Chart and also Chandra 
Mangalik from the Moon Chart. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 66 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 Results of Mangala Dosha 


Results of Mangala Dosha 


Mangala Dosha effects the married life of a person in many ways — it creates delays, cheating, 
hurdles and obstacles in getting married. After marriage, there is physical, mental or financial hardship 
for one of the partners or both the partners. It causes mutual disputes, allegations and counter allegations 
and may even lead to disintegration of marriage. If the Dosha is pronounced, one of the partners may 
remain ill or there may be untimely death of either one or both the partners. 

Inspite of this, one should not be scared of Mangala Dosha. Efforts should be made for a person 
having Mangala dosha to marry another person with Mangala dosha, because when the dosha is similar, 
it gets nullified and the couple leads a happy married life. 


Cae Sega AAT AA | AAedsed Yoel wala ger afagat gala 
TATA cut del-aren 1 slaataedt A safer uefa wets: 1 


In the horoscope of both the bride and the groom, if Mars is placed in the eon fourth, seventh, 
eighth or twelfth house from the Lagna, Moon or Venus, then due to equality, Mangala dosha is 
nullified. One attains mutual happiness, wealth, children, health and friends. 


ae ae act tar qardtvad fener | afer det a nfs curt Qaeda 


If a girl having Mangala dosha is married to a boy with Mangala dosha, the dosha is cancelled and 
there will be mutual happiness. 


Remedies to Repel Mangala Dosha 
To ward off the effects of Mangala Dosha following are recommended — 


* One should fast on Tuesdays (sunrise to next day sunrise). During the day, consume liquids without 

salt like tea, coffee, milk, fruit juice and curd. In the evening, draw a triangle with red kumkum (roli) on 
a plate and worship with Panchopachara [red sandalwood, red flowers, incense (dhoop), lighted lamp and 
food consecrated to a deity]. Thereafter, only before sunset, one may consume wheat bread, ghee and 
jaggery (unrefined cane sugar). 

° If the Mangalik Dosha is pronounced, then the Mangala Chandika Strotra should be recited daily for 21 
times for 108 consecutive days. In the morning hours, one should sit facing the eastern direction, light a 
five stroked lamp and worship one's deity (Ishta) and the planet Mars(Mangala) with Panchopachara and 
then recite the following — 


W W Weds ANeasa | sikea faaat wet elas 1 
BTN A alaTeaas 1 YY UT a YY Wrerafsa 
Wiel Wee A AAAS | Mel UN Ata Bde AN I 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 67 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Result of Sadhesati 
Since ancient times, there has been a general belief among the masses that the Sadhesati of Saturn is 
usually painful and problematic from the mental, physical and financial point of view. The moment 
people hear about Sadhesati of Saturn, they get worried and fearful. During the Sadhesati of Saturn the 
person may experience laziness, mental stress, disputes, problems due to ailments and enemies, losses 
due to theft and fire and death of elders in the family might occur. 


Classics describe the results of Sadhesati in the following words — 
ara wey aeafa taga wet ue t ane cgfataesrmd septa fornia 
Tet gevrettarecs ural facta vialarecrerentishe ost gar Ue USAT 
GA: eno faced ahet a MMU Waheafeaaet Weed Garey awa i 
In other words, when Saturn in transit is in the fourth or eighth house from the Moon sign, it is a 
period for illness, quarrels with brothers, foreign stay, hardships and anxiety. During Sadhesati, Saturn 
in the first or second house causes ailments related to the head, heart and legs, fear from the wicked 
and hardships for sons and cattle. 
In general experience it is not seen that the entire period of seven and half years is painful. In fact, 
during Sadhesati, some auspicious events may still occur like, marriage, birth of children, promotion at 
work, business, victory in election and foreign travel. 


Results of First Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (24-12-1928 to 25-02-1937) 
The first cycle of Sadhesati of Saturn is extremely intense and during this period you may 
experience physical pain. There would be obstacles and hardships of various kinds. During this 


period of Sadhesati, there may also be some troubles to your parents. 


Results of Second Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (08-02-1958 to 19-12-1966) 
In the second cycle of Sadhesati, Saturn exerts mediocre influence compared to first cycle. 
During this period you succeed through physical struggle and labour. Despite mental unrest, your 
worldly progress continues. You may suffer separation or loss of parents or other elders in the 
family. 


Results of Third Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (16-12-1987 to 02-06-1995) 
In the third cycle of Sadhesati, Saturn inflicts extremely harsh results. During this period you 
may face tremendous physical hardships. There will be illness and even fear of death. During this 
period only fortunate persons survive. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 68 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Results of the Dhayya of Sadhesati 


It has been generally seen that out of the three Dhayyas of Sadhesati, one gives 
auspicious results. This can be decided according to the number of auspicious lines found 
in the Ashtaka and Sarvashtaka Varga of Saturn. Saturn gives mixed results when Saturn 
has 4 points in the Ashtakavarga and 28 points in the Sarvashtaka Varga. If the points 
exceed this number the results are auspicious and if they fall below this number they are 
inauspicious. If in the birth horoscope, Saturn is strong (exalted or placed in own rashi) or 
it is a Yogakaraka or it is the lord of the Rashi then the bad effects for the person are 
comparatively lesser than for others. 


Results during First Dhayya of Sadhesati — 
First Cycle from 24-12-1928 to 11-04-1931 and from 25-05-1931 to 24-12-1931 
Second Cycle from 08-02-1958 to 02-06-1958 and from 07-11-1958 to 01-02-1961 
Third Cycle from 16-12-1987 to 20-03-1990 and from 20-06-1990 to 14-12-1990 


During this period Saturn transits in the twelfth house from Moon sign and has its full 
aspect on the second, sixth and ninth house. During the first dhayya, Saturn resides on the 
head. There would be fall in mental and physical happiness. There is a possibility of eye 
ailments or weakness of vision and use of spectacles. There may be sudden financial 
losses. There may be unwanted and extra expenditure. You may face financial problems. 
The expenditure will exceed the income. There may be a separation from the family. 


Domestic unrest may prevail. Father may suffer ailments. The relations with your father 
might get tense and fortune might decline a little. Work may be delayed or problems may 
arise. Efforts do not yield results. People are unhelpful and government officials may give 
trouble. Your interest in spiritualism increases. There may be fear of an accident. You may 
wander uselessly. You may also travel to distant places which may cause hardships. This 
position of Saturn is eighth from the fifth house, therefore is inauspicious for children. 


Results during Second Dhayya of Sadhesati — 
First Cycle from 11-04-1931 to 25-05-1931 and from 24-12-1931 to 15-03-1934 
Second Cycle from 01-02-1961 to 17-09-1961 and from 07-10-1961 to 27-01-1964 
Third Cycle from 20-03-1990 to 20-06-1990 and from 14-12-1990 to 05-03-1993 


During this period, Saturn travels in the Moon rashi and its full aspect falls on the 
third, seventh and tenth bhavas. Saturn is placed in the abdominal area during this period. 
Therefore there is a possibility of ailments in the entire middle part of the body. Physical 
energy is affected. The mind does not function and wrong decisions are taken. There may 
be disputes with brothers and with partners in business. One's spouse may suffer physical 
pain or there may be a quarrel with her. Financial problems persist. At the mental level, 
there is a strong rebellion. Useless fears cause anxiety. No work is according to one's 
desires and incomplete work makes one unhappy. Obstacles continue. Family and 
business life is unstable and some relative may die. Travels to distant lands may be 
undertaken, enemies may inflict harm and here may be separation from near ones. 
Diseases, loss of wealth, decline in social standing, shortage of friends and hurdles in work 
are the highlights of this period. 


P. 's Light - RE © GeoVigj Li . 
meee Gu fy eg DHSS BF STEKO ote 
First Cycle from 15-03-1934 to 15-03-1934 and from 07-12-1934 to 25-02-1937 


Garand Crrela fram 97_01_106A ta NR_NA_1044 and fram 12_11_1044 ta 10_19_10K44 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


legs and therefore during this period the legs may suffer from ailments. From the physical point 
of view, there may be weakness. One may feel inactive and physically lazy. Happiness faces 
hurdles, useless disputes occur,unnecessary conflicts with relative arise and they may suffer 
either from a serious ailment or pain equivalent to death. Happiness is destroyed and position 
suffers. Expenses increase. Money comes but it is spent as soon as it comes. Lowly people give 
troubles. Due to its aspect on the eighth house, one's life span is influenced. Due to its sight 
upon the fourth house, domestic happiness, happiness of mother, vehicles and other physical 
comforts face obstacles. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 70 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Results of Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn 


Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of fourth House (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from to and to 
Second Cycle from 27-04-1939 to 18-06-1941 and 14-12-1941 to 03-03-1942 
Third Cycle from 17-06-1968 to 28-09-1968 and 07-03-1969 to 28-04-1971 
When Saturn transits in the fourth house from Moon sign, its full aspect is on the Moon lagna, the sixth 
and tenth house from the Moon lagna. There may be a change of place or transfer. Housing may 
become a problem. Heart problems may occur. Blood pressure may not be stable. There may be 
separation from relatives. Family happiness suffers. There may be opposition both from the public and 
government. Saturn's full aspect is on the tenth house, therefore there are obstacles in the work 
sphere. Saturn's aspect on the Moon lagna causes mental fear. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of seventh house (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from to 18-09-1918 and 14-03-1919 to 03-06-1919 
Second Cycle from 22-09-1945 to 22-12-1945 and 08-06-1946 to 26-07-1948 
Third Cycle from 23-07-1975 to 07-09-1977. and to 
When Saturn transits in the seventh house from the birth rashi its full aspect is on the Moon lagna & 
the fourth and ninth house from the Moon lagna. One's wife may suffer from ailments of the urinary 
organs. Mental anxiety increases. Due to its aspect on the ninth house, there are obstacles in favorable 
fortune, father may suffer, name and honor suffer and there are upheavals in the work-sphere. Due to 
its aspect on the fourth house, mother's health may suffer. Vehicle related problems occur. One may 
have to leave home, stay away for long periods and travel a lot. There may be hardships in travelling. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of eighth House 
First Cycle from 18-09-1918 to 14-03-1919 and 03-06-1919 to 16-11-1920 
Second Cycle from 26-07-1948 to 20-09-1950 and to 
Third Cycle from 07-09-1977 to 03-11-1979 and 14-03-1980 to 27-07-1980 
When Saturn transits the eighth house from the Moon, its full aspect is on the second, fifth and tenth 
house from the Moon sign. There is a possibility of long term ailments and accidents. There is a fear of 
being insulted. There may be fear of pain from government servants. There is a chance of change in 
work-sphere. Work/business may suffer. Wealth may be diminish. Children may suffer pain and there 
are possibilities of separation from children. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of tenth house (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from 15-10-1923 to 01-01-1926 and = 13-05-1926 to 29-09-1926 
Second Cycle from 25-11-1952 to 24-04-1953 and 21-08-1953 to 12-11-1955 
Third Cycle from 06-10-1982 to 21-12-1984 and 31-05-1985 to 16-09-1985 
When Saturn transits the tenth house from the Moon sign, its full aspect is on fourth, seventh and 
twelfth houses from Moon. There may be hurdles in business. Your source of income may be upset. 
You may face failure in business or defame due to ill deeds. Unnecessary expenditure may be 
undertaken.There may be disputes or separation from your spouse. There may be worries regarding 
home and wealth. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 71 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Remedies for Sadhesati of Saturn and Dhayya 


To alleviate the ill-effects of Sadhesati of Saturn and Dhayya, the following are prescribed - 
1. Mantra 
(a) 125,000 times recitations of Mahamrityunjaya mantra should be done (daily 10 malas for 125 
days). 


ao Tray ame ate yfeags | sateafta aearyerdelts agar 1 


(b) The following mantra of Saturn should be recited 23,000 times in 21 days - 


do Valea rer sat veg Utaa | wratreserg As so YT PAPE AT: I 
(c) An ancient mantra of Saturn - 


do Tes aga TART | SraTATUSsa at AMT PATTI 


2. Stotra 
The ‘Dashratha stotra’ or the following stotra of Saturn should be recited 11 times - 


aurea: fret ay: Hot Tetsatat aa: 1 GR: yaya we: fees Bea: 11 
wf via-amni atevaerafadt | vAaveated Uist a welfare afacata 
aca Were ara - free sara - 
Tae area fleet Ad | TA ayRU HoT a AA Ft 
Te Uses AM MRT | Ae aaa TH Ae fest 
Tet TEA PAT ANd | Wale Ge eae Ges We a 


3. Gems and Metals 

On Saturday, wear an iron ring which has been made from the bottom of a boat or a horse’s bridle, on 
the middle finger. 

In your horoscope, Saturn is . Wearing a ring of Blue Sapphire of a minimum of 4 ratti made in 
Panchadhatu in the middle finger will be helpful. 

4. Vratta (Fasting) 

Observe Vratta on Saturdays. Worship Lord Saturn with kavacha, stotra and mantra. It is beneficial 
to recite the Saturday Vratta Katha. On the day of Vratta, consume milk, curd and fruit juice during the 
day time and in the evening pay a visit to the temple of Lord Hanuman or Bhairavji. Take sweet halwa 
(sweet dish) made of Urad pulse or salted Khichari (dish prepared from rice and Urad pulse boiled 
together). 

5. Medicine 

Every Saturday bathe with surma, black sesame seeds, saunf (anise), nagarmotha (the sweet smelling 

grass Cyprus) and lodha (the tree Symploce racemoze). 

6. Donation 

To appease Lord Saturn, donate urad (a type of pulse), oil, sapphire, sesame seeds, kulathi (a horse 
bean), buffalo, iron, money and black clothes. 

7. Other Remedies 

(a) Wrap a raw cotton thread seven times round a peepal tree (the holy fig tree) on a Saturday evening 
and recite the mantra for Saturn. Light a lamp with mustard oil under the tree and seek forgiveness for 
any misdeed done knowingly or unknowingly in the past. 

(b) Measure a black thread equal to 19 times the length of your hand and wear it like a garland. 

(c) Ruse: On Saturday bury in an un-tilled place a sweet made of urad pulse, sesame, oil and jaggery. 
(d) For the appeasement of Saturn, on a Saturday wear the tail of a Scorpion wrapped in a black 
thread. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 72 


INDIRA GANDHI 


- Recommendations for Gem Stones 
The wearing of gems is an important consideration that can potentially change and alter many areas 


of your life. As this is a classical science, we give below the views of the ancient Indian 
astrologers. 


Tift AO: GTS Yeas vikeiaaer @ faga Fofer: ares wre | 

aes UT ae Veet Faieraion afed Wedges 11 
“Tl Planets and how to propitiate them by bestowal of gems: When the Sun is hostile, a pure ruby; when the 
Moon, a good pearl; when Mars, a coral; when Mercury, an emerald; when Jupiter, a topaz; when Venus, a 
diamond, when Saturn, a (blue) sapphire; when Rahu, a gomedha; when Ketu, a cat’ s-eye, should be given.~ 
Mani Mala, Part II, 79 


Tt TVS sg AATeT | AUT ATTA TASTUETT 
fret yi 3: ~ haf : =i 
“The wearing of gem studded ornaments brings respect, fame, longevity, wealth, happiness, strength and 
fruition. Over and above this, it wards off evil astral influences, makes the body healthy, removes misery and 
fortune and washes away sin.’— Mani Mala, Part II, 121-122. 


Life Stone 
The gem for the lagna lord is a good stone to wear at all times. It gives health, vitality, general 
success and wellbeing. Wearing it supports all other areas of life. Your lagna lord is the Moon, 
therefore wearing the Moon’ s stone will be beneficial. The stones for the Moon are : Pearl and 
Moon Stone. 


“The wearing of pearls leads to longevity and wealth, and purges the wearer of every sin.” 

“Those pearls which are possessed of every valuable quality, shield their master from every evil and suffer 
nothing harmful to come near him.” 

“The house which contains a perfect pearl, the ever restless Laksmi chooses to make her dwelling for ever 
and a day.” — Mani Mala, Part I, 307, 309, 310. 

“The pearl is sweet in taste, very cool, and specific for eye disease, cures poisoning and eye disease and 
brings strength and vigor to weak limbs. — Mani Mala, Part II, 63. 

“The pearls are extremely valuable, and bestow sons, wealth, popularity, renown on the wearer; and they 
are destroyers of disease and grief and bestowers of desired objects on kings.” — Brihat Samhita. 
Wearing instructions: The gem for the Moon is best set in silver. If a ring, it should be worn on the ring 
finger. Begin to wear it on a Monday evening. 


Mantra to purify and energize the Moon's gem: 


3% Ut Aaa Aa: “Aum som Somaya namah.” 


HP3 « 73 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Punya (Lucky) Stone 


The gem for the fifth lord is particularly lucky, while also being good for creative energy, 
and children. Your fifth lord is Mars, therefore wearing Mars' stone will be beneficial. The 
stone for Mars is Red Corel. 


“A clear, soft, cool, and finely red coral is auspicious, conduces to prosperity and is an 
antidote to poisoning.” — Mani Mala, Part I, 356. 


“The coral is sour, sweet, specific for cold and biliousness, nutritious, and grace 
imparting; and the wearing of it is very beneficial to women.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 66. 


Wearing instructions: The gem for Mars is best set in silver, though if the desire is to 
increase one's courage, strength and bodily warmth then it should be set in gold. Ifa ring, it 
should be worn on the ring finger, or index finger. Begin to wear it on a Tuesday, one hour 
after sunrise. 


Mantra to purify and energize Mars' gem: 


3% Ff ATR AA: “Aum ang Angarakaya namah.” 


Bhagya (Fortune) Stone 


The gem for the ninth lord particularly brings fortune. Your ninth lord is Jupiter, therefore 
wearing Jupiter's stone will be beneficial. The stones for Jupiter are : Yellow Sapphire, 
Yellow Topaz, Citrine. 


“The (yellow) topaz is sour, cool, and curative of abnormal oxidation, causes appetite, 
and brings fame, wealth and wisdom.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 65. 
Wearing instructions: The gem for Jupiter is best set in gold. Ifa ring, it should be worn 
on the index finger. Begin to wear it on a Thursday one hour before sunset. 
Mantra to purify and energize Jupiter's gem: 


se F FSCS FA: | “Aum brim Brihaspataye namah.” 


General Instructions 


Generally it is always best to purchase the best quality gemstones that you can afford. 
The stones of lesser potency have been found to work very well and are less costly, though 
they need to be worn in a larger size in order to give the same strength of effects. 


To derive the best effects of a gem, begin to wear it after cleansing it in fresh milk and 
rinsing it in purified water. Then, holding and concentrating on the gem, perform the 


mantra given 108 times. 


Gems should generally be worn on the right for men and the left for women. Gems may 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 74 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


be worn either on the appropriate finger as a ring, or on the upper arm as a bangle. Alternately 
the gem can be worn around the neck, but this has the disadvantage of the gem swinging and not 
maintaining skin contact. Most important is that the Gem is set so as to touch the skin. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 75 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Applicable Benefic Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Anapha (Shukra) Yoga 
Venus occupies the 12th house from Moon. 


Result : This variety of Anapha Yoga shows that the person is a charmer of the 
opposite sex, adulterous, sweet-tongued, a king, bestowed with wealth, cattle and 
material possessions. 


Veshi Yoga 


A planet, other than Moon, occupies the 2nd house from Sun. Look out for the variety 
with the same name. 


Result : The person will be truthful, lazy, kind-hearted, virtuously disposed, with 
squinted eyes, having a tall stature and a balanced outlook, with good memory and 
ordinary wealth. 


Veshi Yoga (Shukra) 
Venus occupies the 2nd house from Sun. 


Result : This variety of Veshi Yoga shows that the person is renowned, respectable, 
with many virtues, and intrepid. 


Lagna Papa-Kartari Yoga 
Natural malefics occupy 2nd and 12th house from Lagna. 


Result : The person might have criminal tendencies, ill-health, unwholesome food, 
excessive sexual urge, intention to grab the wealth of others. 


Yogas related to Charity 
Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Anapha Yoga 


A planet, other than Sun, occupies the 12th house from Moon. Look out for the variety 
with the same name. 


Result : The person will be equivalent to a king, healthy, affable, renowned, an orator, 
capable, virtuous, given to varied material comforts, pleasant in looks and happy. 


Shankha Yoga 
The Sth Lord and the 6th lord in mutual Kendras, and the Lagna lord is strong. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 76 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Result : The person is kind-hearted, virtuous, learned, blessed with a spouse and children, morally 
sound, versed in sacred scriptures, owns lands, enjoys prosperity and lives up to 81 years. The person 
has the authority to discipline or punish. 


Surya-Budha Yoga 
Sun and Mercury are conjunct in the same house (also known as Budhadhiya Yoga). 
Result : The person is sweet tongued, clever, scholarly, virtuous and will have 
learning, wealth, progeny and self-control, earns wealth by serving others. Also said to 
be highly intelligent, skillful in all works with a good reputation (Still a very common 
Yoga). 


Yogas related to Education 
Yogas related to Profession 


Karmajiva Yoga 
The lord of the Navamsha occupying the 10th lord is Sun (Brihat Jataka 10/2). 


Result : Wealth and livelihood will come to the person through scented articles, gold, 
wool and medicines. The person could be a medical person or assistant to medical 
practices. The person could also earn through his/her father (Sun). 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Mars is in the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : The profession or social status of the person might be connected to minerals, 
fire or heat (fireworks, kitchen, engine driving), weapons, adventures and physical 
strength, or an income through or linked to an enemy (Mars). 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Mars rules the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 
Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession of Mars, connected to minerals, fire 
(fireworks, kitchen, engine driving or any work connected to heat or fire), weapons, 
adventures and physical strength. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Mars aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession of Mars, connected to minerals, fire 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 77 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


(fireworks, kitchen, engine driving or any work connected to heat or fire), weapons, adventures and 
physical strength. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Mercury aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 
Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 


support other combinations indicating a profession connected to Mercury, like a 
mechanic, painter, sculptor, engraver, architect or scent-maker. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Jupiter aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 
Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession connected Jupiter, like involvement 
with educated classes, knowledge, law, religion, temples, charities, discipleship, 
pilgrimage and spiritual pursuits. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Venus rules the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 
Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession of Venus, connected to gems, 
silver, cows, buffaloes, or anything of great value or sensory pleasure or relates to 
beauty. 


Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 
Yogas related to Children 


Putra Sukha Yoga 


Jupiter and Venus are in the 5th house, or Mercury is in the Sth house, or the 5th house 
identical to a benefic sign occupied by a benefic planet (original source unknown). 


Result : The person will enjoy happiness due to his/her children. 


Aurasaputra Yoga 


The Sth house contains a benefic or the 5th house is identical to a benefic sign or is 
aspected by benefics (Saravali 34/25). 


Result : The person will have a child that is legitimately his/her own (with a legitimate 
spouse). 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 78 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Aurasaputra Yoga 
Jupiter aspects Lagna, Sun or Moon (Saravali 35/26). 


Result : The person will have a child that is legitimately his/her own. 


Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 


Bhratruvriddhi Yoga 
The 3rd house lord, or Mars, or the 3rd house itself is conjunct or aspected by benefics 


and strong in other ways (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/16). 
Result : The person will have good luck with his brothers (or siblings) who will be very 


well off. 


Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Sarira Sukhya Yoga 


The Lagna lord, Jupiter or Venus are placed in a Kendra (Sarvartha Chintamani 
2/98). 
Result : Longevity, wealth from and alignment with political powers are bestowed upon 


the person. 


Dehapushti Yoga 
The Lagna-lord is in a Chara sign aspected by a benefic (Sarvartha Chintamani 


2/108). 
Result : Happiness, wealth and enjoyment of life is bestowed upon the person, 
possessing a well developed physique. 


Dehasthulya Yoga 
The Lagna is in a watery sign in conjunction with benefics or the Lagna lord must be a 


watery planet (Sarvartha Chintamani 2/87). 


Result : The person will have a stout body. 


Purnayu Yoga 
Lagna lord and the Sth house lord, both occupy a Chara sign, or one in a Dvisvabhava 


sign and the other in Sthira sign. 


Result : This combination is an indication of a long life span up to 100 years. 


Purnayu Yoga 
HP3 + 79 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


The Lagna and the Moon, both occupy a Chara sign, or one in a Dvisvabhava sign and the other in 
Sthira sign. 


Result : This combination is an indication of a long life span up to 100 years. 


Special Astrological Yogas 
Yogas related to Wealth 


Dhana Yoga 


There is a relationship between the Lagna lord on the one hand and the 2nd, or 5th, or 
9th or 11th lord on the other hand. 


Result : The person will be wealthy. 


Dhana Yoga 


There is a relationship between the 2nd house lord on the one hand and the Sth, or 9th 
or 11th lord on the other hand. 


Result : The person will be wealthy. 


Svaveeryaddhana Yoga 


The 2nd lord occupies a Kendra or Trikona from the Lagna lord, or a naturally benefic 
2nd lord is exalted or conjunct an exalted planet (Sarvartha Chintamani 3). 


Result : The person will accumulate his wealth through his own effort. 


Karmajiva Yoga 


The 10th lord is in a Sthira sign in the Rashi and the Navamsha (Sambu Hora 
Prakasha 15/15). 


Result : The person will acquire wealth and happiness in his/her own land. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Uttamadi (Dhana) Yoga 
Moon is in a Apoklima (3,6,9,12) from Sun. 


Result : The person's wealth, learning, efficiency and fame will be (uttama) plenteous. 


Raja Yoga 


A mutual relationship exists between the Lagna lord on the one side and the lord of the 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 80 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Result : This elevates the status of the individual in terms of success, recognition and status. 


Raja Yoga 
Moon is in a Kendra, but not Lagna, receiving an aspect from Jupiter, and otherwise 
powerful (Sarvartha Chintamani 9.14). 


Result : The person achieves the status of a ruler or equivalent to a ruler, in influence, 
wealth and power. 


Raja Yoga 


The lord of the Navamsha sign which the Moon occupies, resides in a Kendra or 
Trikona from Lagna or Mercury (Sarvartha Chintamani 9.28). 


Result : The person is or becomes a commander or equal to a ruler. 


Maha-Bhagya Yoga 
Night-time birth, Lagna, Moon and Sun in even signs (Phala Deepika 6/14). 


Result : The person is blessed with all feminine qualities, and virtues, graceful, good 
fortune, good character, lots of wealth, and progeny. 


Brahma Yoga 


Jupiter is in a Kendra from the 9th house lords and Venus is in a Kendra from the 11th 
house lords, while Mercury is in a Kendra from Lagna-lord or the 10th house lords 


(original source unknown). 


Result : The person enjoys luxury in food and other pleasures, has the respect of 
spiritual and learned individuals, will be well educated, virtuous and charitable, and 


enjoys a long life. 


Maha-Parivartana Yoga 


The Lagna lord exchanges houses with the 2nd lord, or the 4th lord, or the 5th lord, or 
the 7th lord, or the 9th lord, or the 10th lord, or the 11th lord. 


Result : This combination promises wealth, status and physical enjoyments, plus 
beneficial influences from the houses involved. 


Maha-Parivartana Yoga 


The 2nd house lord exchanges houses with the 4th lord, or the Sth lord, or the 7th lord, 
or the 9th lord, or the 10th lord, or the 11th lord. 


Result : This combination promises wealth, status and physical enjoyments, plus 
beneficial influences from the houses involved. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 81 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Maha-Parivartana Yoga 
The 4th house lord exchanges houses with the 5th lord, or the 7th lord, or the 9th lord, 


or the 10th lord, or the 11th lord. 
Result : This combination promises wealth, status and physical enjoyments, plus 
beneficial influences from the houses involved. 


Maha-Parivartana Yoga 
The 9th house lord exchanges houses with the 10th lord, or the 11th lord. 


Result : This combination promises wealth, status and physical enjoyments, plus 
beneficial influences from the houses involved. 


Yogas related to Cancellation 


Arishta-Bhanga Yoga 
Rahu is placed in the 3rd, or the 6th, or the 11th from Lagna. 


Result : This combination cancels or neutralizes Balarishta Yoga which threatens death 


to the newborn child. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 82 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Applicable Mixed Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Sada Sanchara Yoga 


The Lagna lord or the ruler of the sign occupied by the Lagna lord is in a Chara sign 
(Sarvartha Chintamani 2/91). 


Result : The person will always wander. 


Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Rajju Yoga 
If Lagna is in a Chara sign and several planets also in Chara signs then the effects of 
Rajju yoga can be felt. 
Result : The person tends to become ambitious and moves from place to place in search 
of name, fame and fortune, there is liking of travel, ability to take quick decision and a 
greater adaptability. He is intellectually 'mobile' and has an open mind. However this 
is an indication on an ever changing nature, indecisiveness, a fickle mind, 
untrustworthyness and inability to persist with one thing. The person undergoes 
continuos struggle and generally does not succeed in building many fixed assets. 


Yogas related to Profession 
Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 


Bahu Stri Yoga 


The Lagna lord and the lord of the 7th house are conjunct or in mutual aspect with 
each other (original source unknown). 


Result : The person will have a number of spouses. 


Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 
Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Mukabadhiramdha Yoga 
Either Venus or Mars in the 2nd or the 12th house (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14). 


Result : The person is likely to suffer from ear problems. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 83 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Applicable Malefic Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Asatyavadi Yoga 
The lord of the 2nd house is placed in the house of Saturn or Mars and malefics are in 
Kendras and Trikonas (Sarvartha Chintamani 3/46). 


Result : The person will become untruthful. 


Kamatura Yoga 
Venus in a Dandva (dual) sign (Dandva can also mean Gemini exclusively) in own 
Navamsha (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14/89). 


Result : The person might have a high degree of lust, passion and libidinous desires. 


Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Kuhu Yoga 
The lord of the 4th house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/61). 


Result : The person will be bereft of mother, conveyances, friends, happiness, 
ornaments, relations. The person will be unemployed and without a place of living 
having lost the one owned by him/her associating with low people of the opposite sex. 


Dainya Parivartana Yoga 


The 6th house lord exchanges houses with the Lagna lord, or the 2nd lord, or the 3rd 
lord, or the 4th lord, or the Sth lord, or the 7th lord, or the Sth lord, or the 9th lord, or 


the 10th lord, or the 11th lord, or the 12th lord. 
Result : This combination leads to a wicked nature, persistent trouble from opponents, 
and ill health. 


Dainya Parivartana Yoga 


The &th house lord exchanges houses with the Lagna lord, or the 2nd lord, or the 3rd 
lord, or the 4th lord, or the Sth lord, or the 7th lord, or the 9th lord, or the 10th lord, 


or the 11th lord, or the 12th lord. 
Result : This combination leads to a wicked nature, persistent trouble from opponents, 
and ill health. 


Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 84 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Yogas related to Children 


Pitrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 


Debilitated Sun occupies the 5th house, or the Sun in the 5th in the division of 
Capricorn or Aquarius, or hemmed in by malefics (original source unknown). 


Result : The person will suffer the premature death of his children (due to father's 
wrath or curse). 


Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 


Bandhubhisthyaktha Yoga 


The lord of the 4th house is connected to malefics or holds bad Shasthiamshas or is 
placed in enemy or debilitation signs (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/68). 


Result : The person will have trouble with his close relatives, due to misunderstanding 
or be deserted by them. 


Matrunasa Yoga 


Moon is hemmed between malefics, or conjunct or aspected by malefics (Sarvartha 
Chintamani 4/133). 


Result : The mother of the person dies early. 


Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Durmukha Yoga 


Malefics are placed in the 2nd house and it's lord is debilitated or conjunct a malefic 
(Sarvartha Chintamani 3/27). 


Result : The person will have a deformed and unattractive face, either from birth or by 
accident. His facial characteristics may easily display negative emotions. 


Vakchalana Yoga 


Malefic planet owns the 2nd house and joins a cruel Navamsha and the 2nd house is 
without a benefic planet or benefic aspect (Sarvartha Chintamani 3/152). 


Result : The person will have a speech defect like stammering. 


Vishaprayoga Yoga 


The 2nd house holds or is aspected by malefics and the 2nd house lord is in a cruel 
Navamsha aspected by a malefic (Sarvartha Chintamani 3/143). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to be poisoned by others. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 85 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Arishta Yoga 
The Lagna lord is in conjunction or mutual aspect with the 6th, or the 8th, or the 12th 
house lords (If the lords of the 2nd and 7th houses are involved the effects are more 


severe). 
Result : The person will suffer from bad health (the planets that constitute this Yoga 
will give more specific information). 


Arishta Yoga 
The sixth house lord is in conjunction or in mutual aspect with the 8th or the 12 house 
lords (If the lords of the 2nd and 7th houses are involved the effects are more severe). 


Result : The person will suffer from bad health (the planets that constitute this Yoga 
will give more specific information). 


Arishta Matibhramana Yoga 
Moon is waning and in a malefic Navamsha in a Kendra, while Mercury is with 
malefics (Major S.G. Khout). 
Result : The person is vulnerable to the development of a mental disorder. 


Arishta Matibhramana Yoga 


The lord of the 6th house is conjunct or aspected by a malefic, the 6th house itself 
holds or is aspected by malefics, Mercury and Moon are in Trik houses or aspected by 


malefics (Major S.G. Khout). 
Result : The person is vulnerable to the development of a mental disorder. 


Hillaja Netradosha Yoga 
Mars is in a malefic sign or in a Kendra receiving an aspect from another malefic 
planet (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14/67). 


Result : The person will be vulnerable to blindness. 


Alpayu Yoga 

The Lagna and the Hora Lagna, both occupy a Sthira sign, or one in a Chara sign and 
the other in Dvisvabhava sign. 

Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 


32. 


Alpayu Yoga 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 86 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


The 3rd lord and Mars are combust or afflicted by malefics. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 32. 


Balarishta (Varja-Mushti) Yoga 


The Lagna is identical to Cancer or Scorpio, and all benefics are in the 4th to 10th 
houses and all malefics are placed in the 10th to 4th houses. 


Result : The newborn child is vulnerable to an early death (keep in mind that this is an 
isolated indication - also look out for Aristha-Bhanga Yoga for the cancellation of this 


effect). 


Yogas related to Wealth 


Daridra Yoga 
The lord of the 11th house is in a Dusthana (the 6th, 8th or 12th houses). 


Result : The person will attain huge debts, suffer poverty, will have hearing troubles, 
have a mean temperament, and indulge in sinful and unlawful activity. 


Daridra Yoga 
The lord of the 11th house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/68). 


Result : Incoming debts will constantly be the way of life for the person, suffering from 
diseases of the ear, deprived of good siblings, engaged in cruelity and sins, indecent in 
speech and work like a menial. 


Daridra Yoga 


The lords of the houses occupied by the Dusthana lords, are in the Dusthanas 
themselves and conjunct or aspected by Malefics. 


Result : The person might suffer from poverty, misery and ill-health. 


Daridra Yoga 
Benefic planets are located in malefic houses, and malefic planets in benefic houses. 


Result : The person might suffer from poverty, misery and ill-health. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Bandhana Yoga 


Malefics in Cancer Lagna, Leo Lagna or Pisces Lagna (Sambu Hora Prakasha 
14/57). 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 87 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Result : This configuration makes the person vulnerable to confinement or imprisonment "in a fort". 


Kulapamshala Yoga 


Benefics and malefics are placed in Kendras, Lagna lord without an aspect from Moon 
(Sambu Hora Prakasha). 


Result : The person will live in a distant land, be discarded by his/her family, 
vulnerable to poverty and the loss of wife and children. 


Dasi-prabhava Yoga 


Sun and Moon are debilitated, or they are both in opposition with Saturn (Sambu Hora 
Prakasha 14/65). 


Result : The person might be the child of a female slave or a maid. 


Yogas related to Cancellation 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 88 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Life Interpretation Report for INDIRA GANDHI 


Speaking supportively, encouragingly, and in a heartfelt way, you say the right things 
instinctively to buoy up your audience. You are clever about cultivating influential people 
and may have an intelligent older sister or brother, or friends you look up to. You are good 
at subjects like astrology, math, and business calculations. You are sensitive to opportunity 
knocking and have a prudent financial mind-set. It can be a struggle to fulfill your desires 
but you will not let on how hard it is. You lead colleagues and associates on a quest for 
previously unknown solutions. 


You are an exemplar, a model for others. You have a silken smooth character. You are 
charming. When you want to be charming, you can bowl people over. You are a very 
outgoing individual. You form relationships easily and in a straightforward way. You are fun 
loving. You are optimistic about evaluating the outcome of situations. 


You are liberal You are tolerant of others foibles and can be very generous. You are strict, 
but always ready to help others. You are empathetic. You are very feminine. When love and 
warmth are being bestowed, you respond with great sincerity. When warmth is withdrawn, 
you can react as if the life force has been drained from you. You favor a work environment 
that is harmonious and pleasant. 


You are dependable, and loyal. You are a calm person. Politically, you have a traditional 
mindset. 


You are cultured. Your mental inclination makes you always do the right thing. You are an 
ethical person. You have a thirst for justice and can become impassioned and outraged when 
you see unfair treatment to yourself or others. You are an honorable person. Because you can 
act on inner faith, you can receive benefits without blocking them with fear. There must be 
reflected glory for you to shine in-someone higher, wealthier, wiser, and older or more 
respected through whose patronage and support you put forth your own qualities. You are 
bright and are not the type who is fooled easily but even though you seem to be quiet you. 
You are purposeful, economical, conscious of your duty, and prudent. You are good at 
dealing with the public. 


You are brave. If you are confused about an issue, you will push ahead until you understand 
it and can succeed. You are focused on how well you get along with everybody and what 
other people feel about you. You are very independent and of democratic views. You are very 
concerned about what other people think about you. 


When the competition gets tough, it is likely that you get tougher. You tend to prevail in 
battles or contests, but you get involved in more than your share of them. You have a strong 
influences on the opinions of others, and they on you. You have a very strong influence on 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 89 


INDIRA GANDHI 


the actions of your close friends, partners, or spouse. Nonetheless, you have the power to transform all 
situations by your inner strength. You see new opportunities for prosperity everywhere you go. You are 
macho. 


At times, you may give up too easily in struggles or withdraw from the world. 


You are self contained and cold at times. Even while thinking with active mind, discussing your ideas 
for social regeneration, reading, and debating, you are not vitally interested in these outward actions; you 
are more concerned with your family's welfare. There is a tendency for rash decisions. Because you can 
be very rigid in your views and opinions, you could become manipulative, scheming, and unscrupulous. 


You may be secretive. You use complicated strategy and might keep your machinations secret or behind 
the scenes. You seldom show your true self to others. You can be evasive and slick. When your 
self-interest is at stake, you can become less concerned with right and wrong, you just want to prevail no 
matter what. You are inclined to make premature plans. You consider yourself to be superior, be 
unfriendly or condescending. You are self-centered. 


You may be quick to irritability. You have a dominating temperament. You tend to be argumentative 
and generally itchy. It is likely that you have a bad temper, which may make you say some nasty things to 
people. You may be intolerant, offensive, and irritable. You are open to a fault. 


You could be a shy person. You may be passionate, oversensitive, lacking in confidence, scared, and 
ill-treated. At times, you may be at the mercy of other people. 


Perhaps you are frustrated and keen on revenge for your own lack of fulfillment in life. You have 
contradictory traits in your personality. You are a person with many desires, which makes you restless 
and sometimes makes you act with less moral awareness. 


In spite of your mental skills, you may find it challenging to get a very good job, and rather earn on your 
own. 


You are happy amidst forests, hills, and similar environments. You may not have been happy in the early 
part of your life, but the later part will be happy and strong. 


Bs 


AN 


ms Jour Face To Che Wont 


= 


You have plump buttocks. You are likely to have a distinct upper body; it maybe somewhat top-heavy. 
The way you carry your shoulders reveals your moods. You have short to medium stature. You are likely 
to be overweight. You have a tendency to put on weight in a middle age. There is a possibility of having 
curly hair. It is likely that your hair is blonde. You have a sanguine complexion. You have a swarthy 
complexion. You have very beautiful eyes. You have sharp teeth. You may have scars or some 
asymmetrical feature in your face. There might be some mark or scar on your face. Your calves are well 
developed. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 90 


INDIRA GANDHI 


It takes effort to maintain a proper dress code and look tidy all the time. 


You may be eloquent. You are a good speaker. Your speech tends to be very energetic, strong and to the 
point. 


Your presentation is striking. You are an excellent speaker and performer. You are able to give 
extempore speeches or sermons. 


You are quite argumentative and you are often victorious in your disputes with others. Vocal expression 
is fundamental and may be in the form of recitation of mantras or some specialization of speech or 
language. 


You can be rugged in speech. Your speech can easily sound a little stronger and harder than you 
intended. 


The expression your face displays most easily is anger. 


You will have a balanced mind. 


You have a strong mind. You will have a good mind for mechanical things. You think in mathematical 
or statistical terms. You can use your mind to be cutting and wounding. You are analytical and have a 
systematic approach. You are a deep thinker. You are strongly intellectually inclined, with a curious, 
inquisitive, and creative mind. You are psychic. Your mind can scan various ways of saying the same 
thing so fast that you can choose the perfect expressions as you talk. 


You have a lively mind. You have a comprehensive and an expressive mind. Your mind may come up 
with far-fetched and quite obscure things that could be useful in a scholarly setting. Your mind seeks 
understanding of practical matters such as the proper accumulation of resources. Relationship issues 
occupy a large place in your mind. 


Mentally you may feel quite spaced-out at times. Your quick mind tends to be a little unsteady at times. 


Sometimes you lose nerve inexplicably. You get easily lost in thoughts as well as you can easily lose 
thoughts. Sometimes when you are in the middle of mental work or thoughts, you may simply forget 
what you were doing. Sometimes you get mentally confused and feel that you are not thinking correctly. 
On the one hand, you are masterful and authoritative and a leader or savior, but on the other hand you 
can be very selfish and closed fisted, or timid and nervous. You cannot tolerate it if someone says 
anything stupid to you. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 91 


INDIRA GANDHI 


At times, you tend to be vindictive. 


You honor family values, tradition, and religion and feel a duty to preserve and protect them. Since your 
feelings are so easily hurt, you can miss opportunities by obsessing over others' inconsiderateness. 
Emotional and sentimental, you may make impractical decisions. You have a soft side, which is very 
sensitive and perceptive to other people's needs. You can easily feel at one with the cosmos; the shock is 
that others do not share your vision. There may be an emotional attachment to your work and duties. 


You will have some mood swings. Your moods have a shape, almost like the moon which waxes and 
wanes and likewise you are sometimes more imaginative and progressive and sometimes less so. At 
times, you may have a tendency to become anxious, depressed and feel lonely. You may feel very lonely 
and isolated, which may not be what you want. You may be prone to slight depression. You may suffer 
from emotional insecurity, humility, melancholy, gloom, and despondency. In spite of being sensitive in 
relationships, you have strong desires, which can make your emotions intense and even jealous at times. 
In times of deepest depression, your thoughts can tend toward self-annihilation. You are anxious about 
your situation, and you will use technology or strategy to do your work. It is likely that you tend to 
repress your emotions. Though seeming deeply engrossed in your work you may be inwardly withdrawn, 
pursuing a fantasy life or more ethereal interests in seclusion. 


Your emotions are quite changeable and fluctuating and your feelings toward the people in your life are 
not always the same. Giving way to emotional excitement can be your undoing. 


You are highly clever. You have a bright intellect. 


It is likely that you will get power because of your intelligence. You are intelligent, and able to learn 
fast due to the sharp memory. 


Although you admire the powers of the intellect, in your own case you encounter circumstances and 
emotions, which keep you from training and relying on a piercing intellect above all else. 


. mm. : —_ —— he : 
Education and any learning process is a rewarding experience for you. Any money spent on education 
and training will pay off well. 


Your teachers and mentors are clever, articulate, remarkable communicators, and have a broad scope to 
what they do. You may have got your education in a foreign country with some difficulty. 


You may actually choose to educate your self in an artistic field, or some field that closely fits your 
self-motivating styles. You may also be good at computers, or perhaps fields of science like chemistry or 


biology. A sibling or a friend may be influential in your choice of educational path. 


Your education may be interrupted or delayed, most likely due to some financial situation. You may 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 92 


INDIRA GANDHI 


experience loss or confusion in terms of education. It can also happen that a sense of independence and 
desire for hands-on experience makes you restless in the classroom. 


You are knowledgeable. The more you can play with the knowledge, the easier you can take it in. You 
have a good knowledge of law. 


You learn best when you are in a relaxed, playful environment. 


Your skills are strong. You have good mental skills. You are a quick learner. 


You are very intelligent, especially your ability to deal with logical relationships and to discriminate. 
You are good at initiating relationships with others. You may have a natural flair for interaction, 
maintaining all round good relations and managing your business with dexterity. You have good 
argumentative skills though, and it will be hard for others to win an argument with you. 


You have good managerial skills and are able to understand how to use human and economic resources 
well. You have good judgment in seizing opportunities and often expanding the possibilities in the 
process. 


You are responsible, pragmatic and have practical business and administrative skills. You probably have 
some skills for scientific research. You are computer literate and specialize in some complex 
technologies. 


You are very creative, although you can be quite 'tricky' at times. 


You seem to have a knack for making money. You may have a good insight into the stock market trends 
and give others investment tips. You have the ability to create growth and expansion of profits. You may 
be able to heal yourself and others, whether you are a professional healer or not. Healing skill may be 
seen: perhaps as a massage therapist, physical therapist or even as a surgeon. 


You are a creative person. There is a talent for sweetly neutralizing enmity and gracefully overcoming 
competition. 


You have excellent mental stamina and valor, with keen ability to think your way through complications 
and difficulties. Solving puzzles and working with computers goes very well with your mindset. 


Expressing your fine understanding in words is natural and gives you a great teaching ability. You have 
a talent for writing and counseling. You are clever at languages and logic. Using symbols and using 
language in creative ways is easy for you. You may have an aptitude for antiques and for picking up 
stocks. 


You may be expert at regimens that improve physical, mental, or spiritual well being for yourself and 
for others. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 93 


INDIRA GANDHI 


i \ 
You are very forgiving but those wounded by you may not be. You are systematic, methodical, and 
objective. You do not sit idle or relax until you have completed the task you have set your mind on. 


You have a tremendous zest for life, but, like a bull, you often charge forward to get what you want 
without regard for anyone else. 


You may be a philanthropist. You can be highly dedicated to fulfilling your duties. 
You are an acute listener. 


You may be a little tightfisted when it comes to supporting the welfare of those less fortunate. You can 
be ruthless in pursuing a wrong-headed course just to satisfy your pride. 


LEMS > ; Ye 
You like spending time near lakes, canals, rivers, the ocean, springs, brooks and streams. You like 
playfulness and lively personalities. You enjoy lively interactions with partners. The kind of people you 
are attracted to have a good nature and tend to be young and charming. 


You have a love of training for its own sake. You are interested in education. You have a constant 
interest in learning. You may acquire some special kind of knowledge, not accessible to many. You may 
love ancient texts and hidden, arcane knowledge written in forgotten languages. You prefer intellectual 
growth. 


You like to exercise your judgment in a logical manner and express yourself intelligently. You like 
expounding ideas before an audience. You are interested in research, investigations, curing yourself and 
others, and spiritual attainment through solitary seclusion. You are fond of luxurious living. You have a 
love for money and an interest in economic matters. Loving water, you gain in strength resting near a 
lake, pond, sandbank, or the ocean. You may have an interest in occult studies, astrology, mysticism, 
history, archaeology, and other disciplines, which probe into ancient cultures. You enjoy supplying 
others' needs. You enjoy contests and combat. Fighting and competing can become more enjoyable to 
you than is healthy. 


Vigorous activities and challenges are quite enjoyable to you. You love playfulness and adventures. You 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 94 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


like to speculate. 
You enjoy materialistic pleasures. 


You may have a liking for animals. You have a liking for pets or small animals. You raise animals that 
are affectionate towards you and benefit from them. Perhaps you like horses. 


You may be ingenious at finding ways to take extra vacations from unwanted work. Agriculture and 
gardening are frustrating pursuits. 


You prefer fried or baked food to salad and fruit. The foods you tend to eat may not be so refined in 
general. You may eat too fast or eat fast foods, but sometimes fasting would be good. 


You are likely to suffer from psychological problems, accidents while traveling, lung diseases, and hip 
ailments that could involve pain in the hips, thighs, and legs. Your throat may become dry. Your nostrils 
dry up easily. You may have to deal with irritants in the rectum. Your stomach may give you trouble. 
Health problems come from overindulgence in sex, food, and drinking. Parasites, possibly carried by 
pets, may be a concern. You may have blood sugar problems. There are chances for developing blood 
sugar problems. Your teeth may be sensitive to acids, and generally, some dental work will be necessary. 
You are liable to diseases of the reproductive organs, low fertility, hormonal imbalance, skin problems, 
and possibly emotional starvation. Health should be good, but there is a possibility of sickness, irritants, 
or complications in the reproductive organs or the kidneys, and a chance of venereal disease. Ill health 
may be caused by chronic troubles and ailments related to reproduction. Later in life, much money may 
go to remedy disease conditions that might have been stopped by a little self-discipline early on. Cold 
showers are an invigorating tonic. Your vitality is stronger at night. 


You have a close relationship with both parents. You may have felt cut off from your parents, being 
unhappy in relations with your mother and not being greatly supported by your father. You may have 
altercations with your father or mother concerning finances. 


Your mother is a lover of peaceful actions not always at peace with herself. Charming and alluring to 
others, she still finds it difficult to act in partnership. She aims to bring her career to some climactic 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 95 


INDIRA GANDHI 


accomplishment. Your mother is good at resolving conflicts and reassuring ruffled tempers. Her lovely 
romantic disposition draws support from others, which is good because she likes to be a trailblazer. She 
is emotionally suited to right brain activities and brings full feelings to artistic expression. Your mother 
can see both sides of issues and is happiest when she can remain impartial. She lives or dies by the law, 
and has a cultured refined love of the many facets of social expression. She deals well with the public 
and lines up helpful alliances that advance her causes. She is a skilled promoter, fundraiser, seminar 
speaker or instructor and can relish a good competition or the occasional litigation, since she tends to 
prevail. She profits from self-training in the latest opportunity fields, but needs to tighten up her sense 
of time management. She is an admired politician, traveling to spread her message and benefits by 
promoting her mate. Your mother is highly romantic. Your mother is learning to utilize her environment 
for her advancement. 


Your mother is extravagant. Your mother tries to avoid arguments and debates as much as possible. 


When under oppressive influences your mother can be stubborn, argumentative, and annoying. There is 
a possibility that your mother will suffer from a medical or mental complaint. Your mother can be 
mentally disorganized. Your mother is acutely sensitive to every change in the outward world. Friends 
and relatives can impose on your mother's good nature, but she only lets them go so far. You may 
manage your mother's finances to some extent. Your finances and your mother's are intertwined. 


Your father is a worthwhile philosopher. Your father may be adventurous. Your father always seems to 
be busy taking part in some project. Your father often approaches his friends for advice but later makes 
no use of it. Your father likes to be on the side of the government. 


Your father can do well in work connected to machinery or technical operations. Your father may have 
served the government. 


There is a tendency in your father to postpone final decisions and decisive actions for later. Your 
father's innate flexibility may sometimes result in inconsistency, in his effort to stay aligned with others. 
Your father is the multiple personality type. Your father can go overboard telling others his troubles, 
attempting to gain sympathy. Your father's viewpoint is mechanical; he wields strong logic and likes 
debates and arguments. Your father's philosophy adheres to the boundaries set by the group that he 
belongs to; and he zealously enforces belief in this creed. It can be said that your father possesses more 
than one set of emotional reactions. 


Your father can be inconstant and indecisive. When your father meets with opposition, he tends to lose 
his temper and becomes militant. 


Work or other undefined influences keep you apart from your father more than you desire. Your father's 
assistance may be unavailable due to circumstances beyond your control. 


Your early family life may have involved divorce by your parents and a change of parents to a 
stepmother. Your family atmosphere is conducive to security and financial status. You have a good 
family life and feel a need to be in control of your family members. You seem to be devoted to your 
family. You care for family affection and you always feel homesick for your roots and your family's 
abode. 


You are friendly with relatives, but there may be some hostility from your father or teachers. Your 
family is not so close and social; there may be some kind of breakup where everyone goes his or her own 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 96 


INDIRA GANDHI 


way. Happiness will be derived from maternal grandfathers' family. It is best to avoid business ventures 
with relatives or friends. 


Your mother and younger siblings consider you to be unusual or to widen their cultural horizons. 
Misunderstandings may develop with a younger sibling. Playfulness, creativity, moral values, and 
intelligence are qualities that should fit your siblings. You are concerned for your siblings. 


Your relationship with your older sibling may not be smooth. Your older sibling may be your rival, or 
your relationship may be characterized with rivalry. You may be hostile to an older sibling or already 
established colleagues. Your closest older sibling may suffer from heat, fevers, inflammation, cuts, and 
injuries or may need surgery at some time. 


You are influential, almost as a mentor or substitute parent, in your younger siblings' lives. Younger 
siblings, however, are somewhat distant. 


You may have a loss in connection with your maternal grandfather's family. 


You may be overly influenced by the attentions of the opposite sex. Romance or pleasant social 
relationships may develop at your work place. It is very important for you to have a very personal 
one-to-one relationship. You may have to be competitive where it comes to matters of love and liking. 


Relationships may take a turn where proper conduct goes by the wayside, and respect is lost. When you 
court the opposite sex, you may find yourself in a power struggle. You have low virility and can be 
asexual. You could be a good lover but miserable spouse. 


You have a good rapport and understanding with your partners and spouse. You will experience a deep 
mutual love with your spouse, and a very close and intimate bond. 


There could be some problems with marriage. You may marry early in life. You may marry more than 
once. This is due to the changeability of your relationships. Marital life can be tumultuous. Marriage may 
falter because expectations are placed too high. It is hard to simply accept and tolerate. You may have 
difficulty in finding your true self where love is concerned. You tend to be dominant over your spouse 
and are interested in relations with the opposite sex. You concern about other people's opinion may at 
times make your spouse want to run for dear life. Your marriage might be an area where complications 
and conflicts keep occurring. You encourage your spouse to be more assertive in her/his own activities. 
You easily attract disagreements with partners. You are stubborn and stick to your viewpoint rather than 
accommodating to your spouse. 


Marriage will bring prosperity. 


Financial strains can cause marital problems, but overall your spouse enjoys the enthusiastic support you 
give her/him. Your spouse is not able to understand the intricacies of your work and this can create a gap 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 97 


INDIRA GANDHI 


between you. 


Your husband's position improves over time, although he may have to slog through periods of restricted 
development. He cares for the masses and the underdogs, and finds practical and organized ways of 
giving where he thinks it will do most good. He may clash with the orthodox and established viewpoint 
and rebel against legal conventions, but whichever side he is on he has a keen awareness of what is the 
traditional and expected and accepted mode of behavior. He puts some of his best thinking and planning 
into his career. He works with influential people in their field and garners plenty of respect in his 
position as it becomes obvious that he is sincere in his charitable outlook. Promoting family values is 
important and he has a strong respect for material success. 


Your spouse may be a person that you have known since childhood and you are very close. She/he may 
be attractive as well as stable, mature, and having good judgment. Your husband is a social animal. Your 
husband is slow and persevering. For the most part your husband is honest and reliable. Your husband 
has a disciplined approach to get others to help fulfill his goals. Your husband is ambitious in a cautious 
way. You attract active or competitive partners. Hard working, patient, and tactful, your husband is an 
exemplar of steadiness. Having an executive mind, your husband has decided opinions about the conduct 
of the government, usually not favorable opinions. Your husband thinks that he has mastered his baser 
instincts by becoming receptive to life, only to find that being too nice leads to being overloaded with 
responsibilities. Your spouse has some kind of status or comes from a good background. Your husband 
is generally methodical. Your spouse may be popular and strong. You are attached to your spouse. 
Having no control over his tongue, your husband thoughtlessly blurts out whatever he wants. At his best, 
your husband is willing to sacrifice personal convenience to help others. 


Your husband is able to structure and organize. 
Your husband may need a long time to let go of regrets and perceived mistakes. 


Your spouse can oppose your wishes. Wealth and material welfare are often on your husband's mind. 
Your spouse may be fickle. Your spouse may be a performer of some kind and is somewhat fickle. 


Your spouse will be affluent. Strictly money-minded, your husband guards his finances cautiously. 


You may have good friends. There may also be incidents where your friends change into opponents. 
You may subconsciously feel as if you are in competition with your friends. You will not have so many 
close friends around you, and sometimes you will associate yourself with people of questionable 
reputation. You may keep your friends at a distance. 


You may help your friends with technical solutions to their problems. Friendships are based on a 
recognition of your skills, or shared training regimens. Your friends may go through turmoils that affect 
you. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 98 


INDIRA GANDHI 


You do attract enemies or opponents who sometimes turn out to bring you benefits. Females may figure 
as your enemies. You may have opponents, competitors or industrial spies who prey on your work. Your 
enemies and opponents may suffer from injuries or health problems. There will be pressures from 
enemies, opponents or competitors, which will oppress your life, but you will come out victorious after 
struggles and strife. Your enemies or opponents suffer health problems or are embroiled in legal disputes 
that keep them from being able to take you on. Due to your enemies' obstacles, and by using 
problem-solving methods you may develop a scheme where you can gain from your main opponents and 
competitors. You may find that many of the opportunities you have for gaining resources is through your 
opponents or competitors. Surprising as it may seem you are likely to earn well through these avenues. 
Other opportunities might actually have more obstacles for you. Enemies may cost you financially. You 
might be able to say that you don't have any enemies, but if you do they may get the better of you. Your 


opponents or competitors may be able to grasp the opportunity before you can, or steal away from you an 
idea for financial enhancement. 


Others may feel you can be harsh, aggressive and be a little offended by your expressions. You are 
respected by others in specialized fields. You are fortunate and well respected. 


Reputation in a scholarly or educated field might be important to you, as your ambition is strongly 
linked to awareness of gradual accumulation of resources. You are often called upon to speak and can do 
very well with an audience. 


You can be easily misunderstood, which can give you some difficulty. It may be hard for you to 
network, to connect to people who can open up new chances for you. There will always be wise and 
supportive people in your life who help you fulfill your goals. There is a tendency to get into 


disagreements about things you love. 


al 
You are aspiring, democratic, reserved, chaste, prudent and self-controlled. You are blessed with 
moderate ambition. You act steadily in your line of business. You work most efficiently. You could be 
widely acclaimed for your efficiency in work. 


You maintain a lively interest in your profession and career. Your work can be secret or confidential, 
and you do not like to share your advantages. You are an energetic teacher. 


You exercise an intimidating influence on competitors. 
You should avoid entering into any business partnerships. Your partners look to you for direction. 
Investments may be your forte. You prefer to be your own boss. 


You are more likely to gain as an employee of a large company than through independent business. 
Your worldly position may suffer because of your superiors. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 99 


INDIRA GANDHI 


You have good relationships with co-workers and subordinates. You may have employees or command 
numbers of subordinates. 


You can get very passionate about work and overcoming obstacles. You are well equipped to express 

the necessities of your work. Work requiring a detached attitude connected with earth or science such as 
agriculture, warfare, transport, engineering and medicine can bring you success. You are very well 
grounded in practical affairs and have a shrewd sense of what is profitable and what is not. It is simple 
for you to see the big picture; the details need more work. Your work brings you into contact with groups 
and organizations which go through dramatic tests and trials. A career of your choice might be connected 
to public speaking, education or finances. The work you do is unusual and helps to advance knowledge 
for a wider society. You are good at your profession and are a natural at public relations and business 
consulting, but your income fluctuates. 


You are likely to see a big change in status during your lifetime. You gain fame or notoriety. You are 
generally lucky in getting results. You will enjoy the happiness of success many times in life and fame 
may come with it. 


Results and gains come at the proper time. It is likely that you may get more successful as you grow 
older. You may have a hard time fulfilling your highest aspirations because you meet with annoying 
obstacles and hindrances. There could be a lot of problems in your life . You are frequently overloaded 
with work. 


You will gain from people in high places or the government. Organizations to which you belong may 


face litigation and other problems which delay your and their progress. 


i i 


Your reputation and status are ree to make you a wealthy individual, You gain from people in 
authority. Family business is important and may be one of your sources of livelihood. You take wealth 
from your rivals, competitors or enemies. An inheritance may come to you. 


If you receive any inheritance it may be small. You will make a good example for your family and will 
steadily gain wealth in your life. You are fairly well to do. You will easily become prosperous. Inflow of 
cash is usually not a problem 


You may work hard to accumulate financial security for yourself and your family. There may be some 
obstacles in your way to financial independence, but you will get quite ambitious to overcome them. You 
will get results and income through hard work. 


You may gain money from the government, or corporate employment. You may do well in speculation, 
research of scriptures, in activities related to tax matters, amusement, sports, vocal ability, yoga and 
meditation; government contacts are profitable. Income generating activities may relate to jewelry, food, 
money, cosmetics and education. You may possibly utilize unscrupulous, or even dishonest means to 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 100 


INDIRA GANDHI 


gain money, if that is the only way. 


Your possessions are likely to include land, tools, metal items, or other things with a mechanical or 
unrefined nature. 


There will be excessive expenditures on unwholesome things and activities. You may manage your 
expenses using some specific powerful channel, like the phone, internet, or even esoteric abilities. You 
undertake very difficult projects in order to meet your expenses. It easily happens that you spend your 
money for purposes you feel passionate about. It is possible that you will spend large sums on your 
children, books and acquiring knowledge. You use your money for educating yourself and others. You 
spend on education or entertainment. You are likely to spend reasonable sums of money to acquire 
knowledge. 


You are easy with your money as far as lending to your friends. You may have some spending habits 
that are improper, like vices. Theft is a danger. There will some losses or theft, with no explanation or 
understanding how they happened. You may go in for speculation. It may be possible that you may not 
do well in terms of money if you indulge in investments or gambling. Your expenses are a source of 
difficulty and anxiety for you. You have periods of disastrous expenses, so carry good insurance. Some 
expenses are incurred in secret. 


You may be spiritually inclined. 


You are devoted to truth, God, and higher consciousness. 
You will have success in meditation, enlightenment, and reading and understanding wisdom texts. 


You are a free thinker sometimes, or an atheist. You may gain huge evolution in consciousness. You can 
be detached from normal worldly desires. 


You do not follow orthodoxy in religion and may be indifferent to piety. 


Your home may be a short commuting distance from your job. You usually live in rented premises. You 
may end up living in a place far from your original home. Your early home remains vivid in your 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 101 


INDIRA GANDHI 


thoughts. 


You will do quite a bit of travelling. Travelling by land, or other adventurous activities will be a suitable 
means to express your energy and courage. Travel to foreign places is favorable and you gain recognition 
in foreign places. You are fond of travelling, and although you love your motherland, you may travel and 
migrate. When you acquire education you may have to travel far to get it. You move frequently in 
connection with your work. Travels for business are fruitful. You have a religious orientation and at 
some time will go on journeys to places of spiritual significance. Travel is problematic. You are 
vulnerable to expenses or hardships, even danger, from foreign people and places, so be careful and 
travel safely. 


Your life will revolve around important relationships. 


Your childhood was faced with difficult circumstances. In your early childhood, you may have 
experienced lack of support or incidents that deterred your self confidence. 


You may encounter all kinds of obstacles and irritants, which are only resolved over a lapse of time. 
You may find it problematic to settle into a comforting and secure lifestyle. At times you may feel a need 


to withdraw from the mainstream and remain in solitude. There are some parts of your life which are 
kept secret, and where you may do things that you will regret later as being unethical or inappropriate. 
You have to battle against seriously adverse circumstances at certain junctures of your life. 

You are a lucky person. 


You may have luck at gambling and investments. You rise and fall based on your popularity. 


Some incidents may be the source of great irritation to you. Your troubles force you to reveal your inner 
life to others’ view. 


Advice from good counselors can help. Having a fountain in your office can make a big difference. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 102 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Transit Interpretations 
Transit of Sun in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (12 Feb 2013 20:00:42 to 14 
Mar 2013 16:56:29) 
The Sun's transit through the second house could prove to be a monetarily 
challenging for you. This period mostly portends absence of expected result or 
profit in trade and decline in wealth. If you deal in agriculture or trading, this 
period may bring you some setbacks. 


This is the time when you are more susceptible to fears than usual. You may feel 

at risk of being cheated, or experience anxiety for no apparent reason at all. As a 

result, you may find it difficult to handle ordinary affairs of your life as smoothly 
as you would otherwise do. 


You may find yourself not so happy and getting irritated easily even at your near 
and dear ones, and you may feel less compassion and flexible than usual. 


If you are susceptible to headaches or problems with your eyes, this is a time were 
the symptoms may surface. 


Transit of Mars in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (4 Mar 2013 20:39:39 to 
12 Apr 2013 19:37:35) 

During this period, Mars will move through your third house from the Moon. This 
brings in good times and could be regarded especially well for financial gains. 
During this time, you are likely to make money in your trade and profession. You 
are also likely to acquire valuable ornaments during this phase. 


Work should be on a smooth sail and you are likely to succeed in matters of 
importance. Your new endeavours would also see success. If employed, you are 
likely to be promoted to a position of greater authority and honour. Your success 
would boost your self-confidence and strengthen your will power during this 
time. 


Health would remain good and you would shine with health and vigour. Your 
enthusiasm is likely to be at its top and you would be relieved from all the past 
confusion or obstacles. This time also sees you indulging in exotic culinary 
delights. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 103 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Your enemies would be defeated and you would be at peace with your mind. 
Avoid any trip abroad as it may not bring in the desired result during this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (14 Mar 2013 16:56:29 to 
14 Apr 2013 01:28:42) 

This transit of the Sun brings a positive boost in your professional and personal 
life. 


You are likely to progress in your career with an increased recognition from the 
employer or authorities. There is an increased chance for promotion or better 
employment. You feel energetic and enthusiastic, and will experience a heightened 
ability to overcome obstacles, resolve problems, and overcome possible 
obstruction from adversaries. Your work is most likely to be successful and bear 
fruit. This will result in financial gains, and absence of money related worries 


You will do well socially, and feel successful, respected, and appreciated. 
Friends, family and acquaintances will love you and you have a chance to spend 
time with them. Your mind is at peace, and you feel happy and comfortable with 
your life. If you have children, you will enjoy parenthood. 


Your heightened mental and physical fitness will come along with sound health, 
and absence of diseases. 


Transit of Mercury in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (10 Apr 2013 01:55:18 
to 28 Apr 2013 18:29:14) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your third house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a rough phase with your superiors. You may have to be extra 
careful while dealing with your superiors and employer. Avoid any kind of 
argument that may lead to differences of opinion and misunderstandings. 


Stay away from your known enemies and be careful of unknown ones. However, 
this period may also give you few new and worthy friends whom you would 
treasure for life. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 104 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Handle your finances carefully as money needs extra attention during this period. 
Be cautious to avoid any loss of wealth. 


This journey of Mercury may make you suffer from depression, trouble in 
recollection of facts, mental stress and unexpected hassles in your endeavours. 


Transit of Mars in the 4th house from Natal Moon (12 Apr 2013 19:37:35 to 
23 May 2013 09:13:21) 

During this period, Mars will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This brings in some hard times in a few of your life's segments. Most of you are 
likely to face a difficult time when it comes to managing your old enemies. You 
are also likely to encounter some new enemies who could also be from your own 
circle of family and friends. Some of you may also befriend some wicked people 
for whom you may suffer later. Keep an eye on your behaviour as it might become 
cruel during this phase. 


However, a few of you may also go in for some kind of settlement with your foes. 
Your health would require more attention than usual as this period makes you 
susceptible to developing fever and discomfort in the chest. Some of you may also 
suffer from diseases mostly related to the blood and the stomach. 

Mentally you are likely to remain worried and under a spell of grief. 

Relationships would be demanding during this time. Make peace with your family 


and other relatives to avoid further sorrow during this phase. Hold on tightly to 
your honour and position in the society as well. 


Avoid any issues related to land and property especially during this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 4th house from Natal Moon (14 Apr 2013 01:28:42 to 14 
May 2013 22:21:15) 

The period when the Sun travels through the fourth house may connote decline in 
your present social status and difficulty in maintaining your position at the 
workplace. It would be better to avoid any arguments with your seniors, mentors 
or well wishers during this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 105 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


This period could prove to be distressful, prone to experiencing grief and a time of 
misery. Your mind may have a hard time staying focussed on constructive 
thoughts, and instead be drawn to find an escape in something of an addictive 
nature, compensating for it's restless state. 


Married life during this particular period may become tense and there could also 
be a considerable decline in conjugal ecstasy. Don't let the disturbance in your 
mind project itself in creating any kind of quarrels with your family, or the peace 
at home may suffer. Overall, you may experience a dip in your happiness in the 
domestic and social realm. 


On the health front, your mental disturbance may reflect in some physical 
complaints or even ailments. 


Plans for journeys may face obstacles, and when you do travel you may have 
problems being comfortable, such as lack of food. 


Transit of Mercury in the 4th house from Natal Moon (28 Apr 2013 18:29:14 
to 13 May 2013 08:38:47) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This signifies progress in every aspect of your life. On the personal front you are 
likely to be content with your life and you would succeed and gain in all your 
undertakings. Your status in the society will be heightened and you would be 
honoured. 


Financially this is a very good phase as this period indicates attainment of wealth 
in the form of money or property. You may also gain from your spouse or other 
members of the opposite sex. 


At home, this period indicates the arrival of a new member to the family. You are 
also likely to make your mother be proud of you. Your mere presence in the family 
may bring in success to the other members of the family. 


You may also make new friends who are highly educated and gentle people to be 
with. 


Transit of Mercury in the 5th house from Natal Moon (13 May 2013 08:38:47 
to 28 May 2013 00:41:23) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 106 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


During this period, Mercury will move through your fifth house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a troubled personal life. During this particular period you 
must try and avoid getting involved in any kind of arguments with your wife, 
children and other members of the family. This is not a conducive period for you 
to be headstrong and opinionated while dealing with friends as well. Be extra 
careful while handling your loved ones. 


Health could be a matter of concern at this particular point of time. Take care of 
your food, as you are likely to suffer from heat stroke or body heat during this 
time. Do not undertake any activity, which would put a risk to your life. 


Mentally you may feel agitated and all drained out. 
This period may also give you some bodily pain leading to much discomfort. 


There may also occur troublesome and difficult circumstances in the work front. If 
you are a student, you need to be more determined and focused in your studies to 
avoid any kind of distraction. 


Transit of Sun in the 5th house from Natal Moon (14 May 2013 22:21:15 to 
15 Jun 2013 04:55:49) 

This particular time mostly denotes a period of monetary challenges, and decline 
in mental peace. On the work front, you have to take extra care not to get into the 
bad books of your seniors. Avoid arguments with your employer or senior staff at 
your workplace. You may have to deal with some obstacles, which could be 
related to competitors, authorities or people you have unfriendly relations with. 


If you express your mental anxiety, you are likely to loose goodwill amongst 
friends and children. 


Health would require your attention, as you may feel sick and lethargic. Mental 
anguish, fear and restlessness may cast their spells on you, and make you're more 
prone to be offended by others. You may also become unstable in your 
temperament. 


Issues related to children may become a matter of concern for you. Avoid 
discussing anything at this time, as you are likely to cause disagreements between 
you and your son. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 107 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Transit of Mars in the 5th house from Natal Moon (23 May 2013 09:13:21 to 
5 Jul 2013 01:12:22) 

During this period, Mars will move through your fifth house from the Moon. This 
signifies a ruffled time. It would be a wise move to curtail your expenses as much 
as possible as this period sees you losing control on your finances and expenses. 


Take care of your children as they may suffer from sickness. Avoid any kind of 
unpleasantness between you and your son, if any, as this may give you agony. 


Handle your enemies with care and be cautious enough to avoid creating some new 
ones. Your enemies are likely to give you some more harassment during this 
particular time. 


Your health would require more attention during this period. You are likely to feel 
lacklustre, weak and feverish. Some of you may catch some diseases that would 
require proper diagnosis. Take care of your food habits as well. 


Some of you may also go through a personal behavioural change during this time. 
Some of you, though very unlikely of you, may become furious, apprehensive and 
very estranged from the near and dear ones. Some of you may even tend to lose 
their glory and fame during this phase. Development of some needless needs and 
urge to do some immoral deeds may land some of you in thick soup. Stay away 
from quarrel with family members during this time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 6th house from Natal Moon (28 May 2013 00:41:23 
to 4 Aug 2013 21:36:18) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your sixth house from the Moon. 
This indicates a mixed bag of positive and negative happenings. This particular 
period indicates success, stability and progress 1n your personal life. Your plans 
and projects will be successfully accomplished and you would also gain from the 
same. 


You are also likely to do better in the work front. You may expect progress in all 
your undertakings. 


This period also indicates your popularity in the society. Your status in the society 
is also likely to be heightened. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 108 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Health should be fine and you would also have mental peace and contentment. 


However, for some, this movement of Mercury may bring in worries and troubles 
from enemies. 


You may have to be extra careful with your finances. Avoid any kind of 
arguments with your employer. 


It is better you stay away from activities involving risk to your health. However, 
body heat may trouble you during this particular period. 


Transit of Jupiter in the 6th house from Natal Moon (31 May 2013 06:49:20 
to 19 Jun 2014 08:47:12) 

During this period, Jupiter will move through your sixth house from the Moon. 
This signifies trouble in most of your life's quarters. You tend to increase your 
enemies by being involved in unnecessary arguments with your family and 
friends. You are also likely to create enmity with your mentor. Beware of your 
enemies at this time as they might trouble you more than ever. 


Health would require attention at this time. You may feel unhappy even when you 
are in the best of condition and may tend to become restless. Take care to avoid 
slackness in health and diseases. 


You would have to be more attentive in your field of work as there is a chance 

that you might lose some money or property during this phase. Beware of thieves, 
a fire at your workplace and even the wrath of the government. If employed, 
maintain a good rapport with your employer and colleagues to avoid any disfavour 
with them. It would be better to postpone new enterprises, as this may not be the 
right time to start something new. 


Your relationship with your spouse may have to be handled carefully and 
sensibly. Avoid any kind of arguments with your partner and stay away from 
litigations of any kind with anybody. 


Transit of Sun in the 6th house from Natal Moon (15 Jun 2013 04:55:49 to 16 
Jul 2013 15:45:48) 
The period brings success in every aspect of life. You will find yourself 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 109 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


overcoming obstacles easily, and it's a great time for successful problem solving. 
If anyone gets in your way, you will be able to deal with it easily, with a minimal 
of aggravation. 


It is a good time to complete any unfinished projects, and you are likely to succeed 
in whatever you put your efforts in. Financially you will also do well, and will find 
it easy to gain in general. 


Your mental and physical health will be excellent. Your body will stay healthy and 
your mind will be free of too much stress and anxiety. It's a time to enjoy comforts 
and social relations, especially friendship with people in powerful positions. 


There are good chances for promotion and honour, especially from authorities or 
government related people 


Transit of Mars in the 6th house from Natal Moon (5 Jul 2013 01:12:22 to 19 
Aug 2013 01:59:33) 

During this period, Mars will move through your sixth house from the Moon. This 
denotes good times. This period would see you gaining wealth, acquiring gold, 
corals, copper and reaping unprecedented profit in your metal and other 
businesses. If employed, you may expect that much awaited promotion and 
honour at your work place. Most of you would see success in all your 
undertakings. 


The improvement in your overall financial condition would make you feel secure, 
comfortable and happy. You would also be able to live in with peace in mind and 
a sense of fearlessness would prevail in you. 


This is also the time to win over your enemies. You may also expect ceasefire of 
your previous quarrels. If you are caught up in any court case, you may expect a 
judgement that would favour you. Most of your enemies would withdraw and 
victory would be yours. You are also likely to command more respect and honour 
in the society. Some of you would also perform charitable deeds at this time. 


Health would be fine during this time. You would get rid of all your previous 
ailments. 


Transit of Sun in the 7th house from Natal Moon (16 Jul 2013 15:45:48 to 17 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 110 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Aug 2013 00:07:56) 
The Sun's position in the seventh house gives a tendency for travel, but such 
travel will tend to be tiring and troubled. 


You need to be extra careful not to challenge your seniors or superiors at the 
workplace, as they are likely to oppose you, resulting in enmity and humiliation. 
Even the relationship with your partner and neighbours may be a bit strained at 
this time. 


Your level of enthusiasm may be at a low, resulting in an inability to overcome 
obstacles that come in the way of achieving your dream objectives or goals during 
this particular time. This period may take you through some set backs in your 
professional activities, will a general lack of progress and success. 


Your health would require your care and attention, as you are more susceptible to 
health problems, particularly discomfort in the stomach, blood related problems, 
fever, and fatigue. Be extra cautious with your diet to avoid indigestion, food 
poisoning and food allergies. The health of your wife and children may also be 
under pressure. 


Transit of Mercury in the 7th house from Natal Moon (4 Aug 2013 21:36:18 
to 21 Aug 2013 04:55:30) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your seventh house from the 
Moon. This may bring in some trying time for you both mentally and physically. 
This period indicates illness. You may have to experience physical pain and bodily 
weakness during this phase. 


Mentally you might become restless and anguished. A rise in mental perplexity 
and misunderstanding with the family is also indicated during this time. You may 
have to be extra careful to avoid arguments and communication gaps while dealing 
with your spouse and children. Take care to avoid any situation where you may 
have to face humiliation. 


You could feel more hassled as you are likely to face hurdles in your endeavours. 
Travel plans, if any, may not yield the expected result and could be troublesome. 


Transit of Sun in the 8th house from Natal Moon (17 Aug 2013 00:07:56 to 17 
Sep 2013 00:02:59) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 111 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


The Sun's journey through the eighth house could incur loss and bodily suffering 
in general. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary expenses and avoid making 
important decisions about finances. 


Support from your community, family members and even partner may seem 
absent to you. There could be a change in the work you do, possibility forcing you 
to let go of your current position, or there could be a lot of travel, which may turn 
out stressful. 


Consciously avoid getting involved in any kind of quarrel with your enemies or 
anyone else, as it is likely to be totally fruitless. 


Take care of your health as you may develop physical ailments like stomach 
disorder, blood pressure and piles, causing you discomfort. You may develop 
needless fear; especially fear of death or loss of honour, meaningless anxiety and a 
restless mind during this phase. It is wise to avoid activities that involve any kind 
of risks with your life and that of your family. A relative's issue may come up 
unexpectedly causing you some worries. 


Transit of Mars in the 7th house from Natal Moon (19 Aug 2013 01:59:33 to 
5 Oct 2013 19:41:05) 

During this period, Mars will move through your seventh house from the Moon. 
This brings in a trying time mostly in matters of health and relationships. 


You may suffer from excess mental worry due to a health problem to yourself, 
your spouse and your near and dear ones. You are likely to feel fatigued and 
susceptible of developing eye discomfort, stomach ache and discomfort in your 
chest. You may also have to take care of your spouse's health. You and your 
spouse are also likely to develop deep mental anxiety during this time. 


Most of you are likely to develop enmity with some noble person. Avoid any 
misunderstanding that may crop up due to hypothetical differences between you 
and your spouse. If not handled tactfully, this may lead to a big quarrel between 
the two of you. Make peace with your friends and dear ones. You are also likely to 
be put to anguish by your kinships. Watch your behaviour, as you are susceptible 
of using bad words and being wrathful towards your siblings or children. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 112 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Your finances would need a tight watch as well. Some of you may lose some of 
your riches due to your unnecessary indulgence in a competition. Curtail your 
spending sprees and ensure a steady incoming of good food and clothing during 
this period. 


Transit of Mercury in the 8th house from Natal Moon (21 Aug 2013 04:55:30 
to 6 Sep 2013 00:54:07) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly signifies wealth and success. It indicates success in all your work and 
projects. During this period you may expect financial stability and gain in 
financial ventures. 


Socially you would see a rise in your status. People would respect you more and 
your popularity would increase. 


This period may also let you acquire a comfortable lifestyle. You are also likely to 
gain happiness from your children. You are likely to receive happiness with a 
newborn member in the family. Your children would also remain happy and 
content during this particular period. 


This period sees a more alert and clever you. You would be able to use your 
intuition and intellect to make right decisions. 


Your enemies are likely to be defeated and will be mellowed down by your aura. 
Moreover, you may also expect help from all the sides. 


However, your health would require your attention, as you are susceptible to fall 
sick. Take care of your food intake and keep your spirits high to keep gloominess 
and unnecessary fears at bay. 


Transit of Mercury in the 9th house from Natal Moon (6 Sep 2013 00:54:07 
to 25 Sep 2013 06:33:43) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your ninth house from the Moon. 
This signifies sufferings from diseases. This particular phase may bring in 
obstruction and interruptions in your field of work. Take care to keep your respect 
and position in the workplace intact. Make sure you don't have to regret any of 
your actions done at this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 113 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Watch out for probable hurdles before venturing into something new. 


Mentally you may feel hassled, over burdened, and unstable due to several 
reasons. 


Beware of your enemies as they could harm you more during this particular phase. 
Avoid any arguments with your family and relatives as this may lead to 
unnecessary quarrels. 


During this period you are susceptible to become irritable and may try to find out 
faults in matters related to religion, common belief etc. This period may also 
demand more labour from you in order to accomplish any task undertaken. 
However, a feeling of lack of interest may stop you from working hard. 


Avoid undertaking any long distance travel, as it is likely to be troublesome and 
may not give you the desired result. Take care of your food habits and try and keep 
yourself in a positive frame of mind. 


Transit of Sun in the 9th house from Natal Moon (17 Sep 2013 00:02:59 to 17 
Oct 2013 12:00:09) 

Sun in the ninth house has some significant results in your life. This period could 
mean blame games, change of place and lack of mental peace. 


Take extra care at your work place to avoid disappointing your employer. You 
may feel humiliated and chances are that some false charges would be imposed on 
you. Avoid any tricky situation during this time. 


Financially this period could be taxing on you. You may also find it difficult to 
recover pending dues from others. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary 
expenses. Misunderstandings, disagreements may occur between you and your 
teacher, or spiritual/religious leader. Opinions of your family and friends may 
clash with that of yours leading to fights and discontentment. 


Health would require your attention as you may develop physical and mental 
discomforts at this time. You may also feel more tired and mentally depressed than 
usual. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 114 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


However, you may also consider doing some virtuous deeds, as you are more 
likely to accomplish this successfully. Travel would be on the cards. 


Transit of Mercury in the 10th house from Natal Moon (25 Sep 2013 06:33:43 
to 1 Dec 2013 10:04:37) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your tenth house from the Moon. 
This denotes contentment and good times for you. You would be happy and 
successful in all your endeavours. Professionally a very good period could be 
expected as well. You would be able to finish off the work given to you 
successfully on time. 


Happiness at home is also indicated during this time. You could also expect to 
meet someone interesting during this time. Some of you may also expect to spend 
some passionate time with someone new of the opposite sex. Possibility of gain 
from this person is also indicated during this particular time. 


Financially, this could be a good time for you. The success in your endeavours 
will be gainful for you and you may expect other monetary gain as well. 


This period may also bring in a rise in your status in the society. You are likely to 
be honoured and may command more respect in the society. You may become 
socially more active and may get involved in social welfare work. 


Mentally peace and calmness is indicated. Your enemies are likely to be defeated 
with ease and you would find calmness in life during this particular time. 


Transit of Mars in the 8th house from Natal Moon (5 Oct 2013 19:41:05 to 26 
Nov 2013 19:34:16) 

During this period, Mars will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly denotes physical danger to you. This period demands a strict 
watchfulness on any and all the developments related to your life, health and 
physique. Stay clear from diseases and all kind of addictions to maintain sound 
health. Some of you are likely to develop blood related disorders like, anaemia, 
haemorrhage, deficiency diseases etc. 


This period also needs you to stay away from weapons and disguised foe. Avoid 
undertaking any task that might prove to be life risking for you. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 115 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Finances would require proper vigilance during this particular period. Most of you 
are likely to face some steep decline in your finances if not handled carefully. 
However, avoid going for any loan and try and keep yourself debt free. 


At work, you may have to put in extra effort to see success in your endeavours. 
Keep up your hope and work on. Hold on to your position and honour at work, as 
this low phase shall also pass. 


Most of you are also likely to go on foreign trips and may even have to stay away 
from your family for a considerable time. 


Transit of Sun in the 10th house from Natal Moon (17 Oct 2013 12:00:09 to 
16 Nov 2013 11:48:34) 

This is a favourable period. It denotes gains, promotions, progress and success in 
all your endeavours. 


You may expect a promotion at the work place. Favour of your seniors, honour 
from the authorities and even more opportunities could be expected during this 
time. 


This period also denotes success in your endeavour and favourable culmination of 
any stuck up deals. 


Socially you may expect an even more respectable position. Your social circle 
will get widened, meaning more positive and gainful interactions particularly with 
the opposite sex, honour from your circle of friends and acquaintances. You may 
even expect to be honoured by the highest of authorities. You could expect more 
gains from unexpected quarters as well. 


Your health will be at its best during this time. Overall happiness would surround 
you. 


Transit of Sun in the 11th house from Natal Moon (16 Nov 2013 11:48:34 to 
16 Dec 2013 02:27:51) 

This transit of the Sun mostly means monetary gains, improved economic and 
social status. 


This is a suitable time for you to approach your boss/employer for any favors such 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 116 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


as asking for a promotion. You will rise in your position at the work place, and 
get unexpected benefits from your superiors or authorities. 


You could also expect profit in trade and attainment of wealth during this time and 
even gains from your friends. 


Your social prestige would see a rise and you would gain more honour in your 
neighbourhood. 


Health would remain fine during this time and your sound health could be a happy 
occasion for the family. 


This period also signifies the commencement of some spiritual constructive deed 
at your home leading to even more happiness. Merrymaking, distribution and 
indulgence of good food and sweets at home could also be expected during this 
time. Overall, a comfortable period is denoted for you and your family leading to 
familial peace during this time. 


Transit of Mars in the 9th house from Natal Moon (26 Nov 2013 19:34:16 to 4 
Feb 2014 14:25:03) 

During this period, Mars will move through your ninth house from the Moon. This 
signifies sufferings mostly due to ailments. This period makes you suffer from 
minor to major physical ailments and bodily pain. During this time, you are 
susceptible to dehydration and weakness or decayed physical power. You may also 
suffer from muscle pain and wounds caused by some weapon. 


Mentally you may feel worried and disappointment most of the time. Some of you 
may also have to go to a foreign land to experience a temporary painful living. 


Finances would need better care and guarding, as you are likely to lose some 
during this particular time. 


Your professional life would require proper handling and more hard work. Some 
of you may also have to work in an uncomfortable work environment for a while. 
Work hard to maintain your position and respect at work or in your field of 
profession. 


Maintain peace and harmony at home and keep an eye for disguised foes within 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 117 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


your near and dear ones. Some of you may also develop an urge to perform some 
activities that may not be acceptable in your religious confines. 


Transit of Mercury in the 11th house from Natal Moon (1 Dec 2013 10:04:37 
to 20 Dec 2013 20:56:49) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eleventh house from the 
Moon. This indicates achievement and monetary gain. This period is likely to 
bring in financial gains for you. You may expect to receive higher monetary gains 
from different sources. Your personal endeavours, businesses and investments are 
likely to bring in higher financial gains and more profits. If you are a professional 
or employed, you are likely to be more successful during this particular period. 
You are likely to prosper in your field of activity especially during this time. 


Health should be good. You are likely to be at peace with yourself. You may 
become more soft-spoken and very cordial in your behaviour. 


At home, you may expect a good time. Your spouse and children will also be 
happy and cordial. You may also expect to get some favourable news. You are 
likely to be surrounded by material comfort. 


Socially this is a good phase as well. You would be able to command more 
respect in the society. Pleasant company of the opposite sex would also surround 
you. Your wit and pleasant nature would also make people flock around you. 


Transit of Sun in the 12th house from Natal Moon (16 Dec 2013 02:27:51 to 
14 Jan 2014 13:12:45) 

This particular period signifies monetary challenges. You would have to take extra 
care while handling finances during this period. 


If employed, you may find yourself having a bit of a hard time with your 
employer. He will tend to not appreciate your work and you may feel a threat of 
being given less responsibilities or less pay. Do not get disheartened if your efforts 
and hard work do not give you the desired result at this time. 


If you are into trade, you may have to go through a few setbacks. Be careful in 
your dealings. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 118 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


This period may also take you through a rough weather socially. Avoid arguments 
with anybody, as quarrels with friends and seniors could not be ruled out during 
this phase. 


You may also have to go on long trips, which may not bring in the desired result. 
Avoid activities that involve physical risks and make safety your first priority. 


Take care of your health and that of your family during this time as you may 
develop fever, stomach trouble and some discomfort in the eyes. Discontentment 
during this particular time may affect peace and harmony at home. 


Transit of Mercury in the 12th house from Natal Moon (20 Dec 2013 

20:56:49 to 8 Jan 2014 13:18:29) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your twelfth house from the 
Moon. This denotes expenses for you. You may have to spend more than expected 
in order to live a comfortable life. Stay away from litigations as this may also 
cause some loss of money. Moreover, you may also have to work extra hard to 
accomplish any of the task undertaken by you. 


Beware of your enemies and stay out of their way in order to avoid any 
humiliation. Hold on to your respect and try and keep your honour in the society. 


You could be mentally disturbed due to several reasons. You are susceptible to 
worries and restlessness during this particular time. You are also likely to be 
distressed and feel discontented during this phase. 


You are likely to lose interest in food and conjugal life. A feeling of sickness and 
suffering may trouble you during this particular point of time. 


Transit of Mercury in the Ist house from Natal Moon (8 Jan 2014 13:18:29 to 
26 Jan 2014 23:51:31) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your first house from the Moon. 
This may bring in some negative results in your life. This mostly brings in a 
situation where you may have to serve someone unwillingly. You are also 
susceptible to face oppression of some kind. Take care to avoid facing a haul over 
the coals and the lashes of unsympathetic words from others. Keeping a low 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 119 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


profile and doing your task best should be the focus during this time. 


You may also have to watch out for unnecessary expenditure as this may cause a 
big hole in your wallet. Be cautious with your spending and pay attention to the 
safety of your finances. 


You are also likely to befriend some bad personalities who may cause harm. 
Watch your words while dealing with your near and dear ones. Your insensitivity 
may create some unnecessary enemies within your circle. Avoid any kind of 
lawsuits and bad company. Be careful not to do anything that may make you lose 
your self worth. You would always need your good fortune, so, save it. Take 
advantage of your education and experience to avoid any glitch in your life. 


Be flexible during this period, as you may have to make some last minute changes 
in your plan, project or ideas due to pressure from different quarters or due to 
some anticipated fear. Obstructions may crop up related to your foreign residence 
if applicable. You may also find obstacles in performing any auspicious work at 
home. Take care of your family and yourself as you may become susceptible to 
deception particularly during this phase. Avoid travel if possible as you may not 
get the desired pleasure or expected result out of it. 


Transit of Sun in the 1st house from Natal Moon (14 Jan 2014 13:12:45 to 13 
Feb 2014 02:12:57) 

The Sun's transit through the first house has a noticeable influence on your work 
as well as personal life. There could be a permanent or temporary change of place, 
difficulty at the work place, or a ruffled time with your superiors at work or your 
employer. You need to take extra care to avoid getting a bad reputation at the 
workplace, as you may feel more irritable, tired and prone to have disagreements. 


To complete the tasks on hand or to meet your set objectives may take more effort 
than usual. There is a heightened chance for going on long trips, which may not 
bring the desired result, or may turn out not to have been necessary in the first 
place. 


During this period you could feel more tired than usual. Your health would need 
extra attention as you are susceptible to stomach problems, disturbed bowel 
movement, discomfort in the eyes and heart related problems during this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 120 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Avoid activities that are physically risky, as there is a tendency toward accidents. 


On the home front, you need to put extra attention on avoiding disputes among 
family and friends, and make sure you get the extra rest to minimise irritability and 
mental tension. Disagreements may crop up between you and your spouse, and 
may affect your married life. Overall harmony and peace at home could also be 
challenged during this time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (26 Jan 2014 23:51:31 
to 18 Feb 2014 17:34:22) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your second house from the 

Moon. This signifies pecuniary gain and growth of income especially to those who 
deal in precious gems. 


This period is also likely to bring in happiness to you in the form of success in 
learning and attainment of knowledge. 


This period also brings in the company of good people and gives you an 


opportunity to savour exotic culinary delights. 


However, for some, this particular period may bring in sufferings, bad name in the 
society and your enemy could also be more harmful than usual. This phase also 
indicates a probable loss of one of your relatives or a near friend. 


Transit of Mars in the 10th house from Natal Moon (4 Feb 2014 14:25:03 to 
25 Mar 2014 09:51:25) 

During this period, Mars will move through your tenth house from the Moon. This 
signifies a ruffled path to success. You are likely to face a lot of trouble ranging 
from misbehaviour of your superiors, failure in efforts, sorrow, disappointments, 
exhaustion and so on. However, you are also likely to meet with success in your 
field of work at the end. Some of you would be able to perform better than ever at 
work. You may also have to undertake some hopping about around places, as your 
work is likely to demand the same. 


This period is likely to bestow a rise in your prestige, position and authority at 
work. You are also likely to get scripted in the good books of your superiors and 
enlarge your circle of good friends. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 121 


INDIRA GANDHI 


Your glory is also likely to bring in some new friends into your life. 


Health however, would require your attention. Keep note of what you are eating 
and keep up your mental health as well. 


Some of you may also feel relieved of your worries and would win over your 
enemies. However, never under estimate your enemies and stay away from 
weapons. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 122 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Dasha Interpretations 


Venus Maha Dasha: 28 Jun 2012 to 15 Mar 2032 


Interpretation of the Maha Dasha of Venus 


General Interpretations 


General effects which are felt during the Maha Dasha of Venus are as follows — 

— During this period one may be endowed with jewels, ornaments and clothes. 

— One may be blessed with spouse, children, wealth, prosperity, clothes and state honors. 

— Interest in education, singing and dance may increase. 

— One may be good natured and charitable. 

— Skill in trading, profits in business and new ventures may commence. 

— During the dasha of Venus, one may acquire vehicles, have children and inherit the 
accumulated wealth of ancestors. 

— During the Maha Dasha of a weak Venus, there may be domestic quarrels, weakness due 
to ailments related to gastric and cough problem. 

— There may be mental restlessness, friendship and occasional opposition from lowly 
people. 


Specific Interpretations 


Interpretations based on the conditions of the planet and other influences in the birth chart 
and divisional charts are as follows — 

— Spouse and children may suffer. There may be loss of wealth and fear of those in high 
places may prevail. 

— There may be an interest in sinful deeds and this may bring happiness. 

— There may be a tendency to perform unreligious and unethical deeds. 

— Pain may be caused by a loss or transfer of position, quarrels, opposition from friends 
and loss due to land and agriculture. 

— Sppouse and children may cause pain. 

— During this period there may be a loss of wealth, defame and constant unhappiness. 

— There may be conflicts with women, migration and suspension due to lack of work. 

— One may get wells, ponds and gardens constructed. 

— There may be an inclination towards worshipping God and great happiness prevails. 

— Physical ailments especially urinary problems may persist. 

— Spouse and children may suffer, and domestic life may be disturbed. 

— Pain due to enemies, obstacles at work and worry due to financial matters may prevail. 

— Fear of those in high places, thieves and fire may prevail. 

— During this period there may be obstacles and delay in attaining honour and status from 
the state, but an increase in authority. 

— Love for poetry, skill in arts and crafts and enhancement of one’s ambitions is possible. 


— Children will be a source of happiness and affection. 
-There is a possibility of anxiety regarding one’s good fortunes, excessive conflicts, and an 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 123 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


increase in the number of enemies. 


Venus-Venus : 28 Jun 2012 to 11 Oct 2015 


Effects of the Antar Dasha of Venus in the Maha Dasha of Venus 


Antar Dasha of Venus in the Maha Dasha of Venus - 

- Fame and gain may be attained at work and business. 

- There will be interest in arts, crafts and music, friendship with women and the bliss 
of their company. 

- Wealth may be attained, worldly comforts may be acquired and fame may be enhanced. 

- Gain of wealth, cattle, etc., through Brahmins, celebrations in connection with the 
birth of a son, well-being, recognition from the king (government), acquisition of a 
kingdom (attainment of a high position in government). 

- Construction of a new house, availability of sweet preparations, happiness to wife 
and children, companionship with a friend, giving grains, etc. in charity, 
beneficence of the king (government), gain of clothes, conveyances and ornaments, 
success in business, increase in the number of cattle, gain of garments by performing 
journeys in the western direction, etc. 

- There will be acquisition of a kingdom (high position in government), enthusiasm, 
beneficence of the king (government). 

- Well-being in the family, increase in the number of wives, children, and wealth, etc. 

- Danger from thieves, etc., antagonistic relations with government officials, 
destruction of friends and kinsmen, distress to wife and children. 

- There will be fear of death. 

- Remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are, Durga Path and 
giving a cow in charity. 


Venus-Venus-Sun : 14 Jan 2013 to 15 Mar 2013 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Sun in the Antar Dasha of Venus, one may suffer from fever, 
headache, and anguish caused by those in authority and enemies. 
— There may be some gain as well. 


Venus-Venus-Moon : 15 Mar 2013 to 23 Jun 2013 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Moon in the Antar Dasha of Venus, a daughter may be born. 
— There may be some gain from those in authority, and the acquisition of clothes, and ornaments. 
— There may be gain from government authorities as well. 


Venus-Venus-Mars : 23 Jun 2013 to 1 Sep 2013 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mars in the Antar Dasha of Venus, there may be ailments related to 
blood and acidity, as well as conflicts. 
— There will be great disputes, including physical assault. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 124 


INDIRA GANDHI (3 


Venus-Venus-Rahu : | Sep 2013 to 28 Feb 2014 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Rahu in the Antar Dasha of Venus, there may be conflicts with women, 
sudden fear and problems from those in authority. 
— Problems from the enemies are foreseen. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 125 


Date of Death 
31 October 1984 ¢ 09:20:00 hrs. * Delhi, India 


Provided by 


Parashara Software Pvt. Ltd. 


H-13, Chitranjan Marg, 
C-Scheme, Jaipur-302001 
Ph: 0141- 2364129, 23602084 
Fax: 2373696 
indiasales@parashara.com 
Processed On: 11 February 2013 


Date of Death 


Hindu Calendar 


Birth Particulars 


Sex 

Date of birth 
Day of birth 
Time of birth 
Ishtkaal 
Place of birth 
Country 


Latitude 
Longitude 

Time zone 
War/daylight Corr. 
GMT at birth 
LMT Corr. 

Local Mean Time 
Sidereal Time 
Sunsign (Western) 
Lagna 


Female 

31 October 1984 
Wednesday 
09:20:00 hrs 
6:49:5 ghatis 
Delhi 

India 


28N40'00 
77E13'00 
-05:30:00 hrs 
00:00:00 hrs 
03:50:00 hrs 
-00:21:07 hrs 
08:58:52 hrs 
11:37:24 hrs 
Scorpio 

Sco 19:10:21 


Family Particulars 


Grand Father 
Father 
Mother 
Caste 
Gotra 


Chakra 


Avakhada 


. Varna 
Vashya 
. Nakshatra - Pada 
Yoni 

. Rashish 

Gana 

Rashi 

. Nadi 

Varga 

Yunja 

Hansak (Tatwa) 
Naamakshar 

Paya (Rashi) 

Paya (Nakshatra) 


Vaishya 
Chatushpada 
Uttarashadha - 4 
Nakula 
Saturn 
Manushya 
Capricorn 
Antya 
Simha 
Antya 
Bhoomi 

Jee 

Copper 
Copper 


Tamil Calendar 


Tamil Year 
Tamil Month 
Tamil Weekday 
Tamil Date 


RAKTATCHI 
AIPASI 
Budhan-kizhamai 
15 


Chaitradi System 


Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 
Kartikadi System 

Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 
Saka Samvat 
Sun's Ayana/Gola 
Season 
Paksha 
Hindu Weekday 


Tithi at sunrise 
Tithi ending time 


Tithi at birth 


Nak. At sunrise 
Nak. ending time 


Nak. at birth 


Yoga at sunrise 
Yoga ending time 


Yoga at birth 


Karana at sunrise: 
Karana ending time: 


Karana at birth 


Sunrise Time 
Degree 

Sunset Time 
Degree 

Next - day Sunrise 


Moon Nak. entry 
Moon Nak. exit 
Bhayat 

Bhabhog 

Dasha at Birth 
Balance of Dasha 
Ayanamsha 


2041 
Kartikka 


2041 
Kartikka 


1906 
Dakshinayan/Dakshin 
Hemant 

Shukla 

Wednesday 


Shukla Ashtami 
07:19:12 hrs 
61:47:4 ghatis 
Shukla Ashtami 


U.Shad. 
09:40:05 hrs 
7:39:17 ghatis 
Uttarashadha 


Shoolam 
19:51:55 hrs 
33:8:52 ghatis 
Shoolam 


Vishti 
18:37:26 
30:2:39 ghatis 
Vishti 


06:36:22 hrs 
Lib 14:09:08 
17:32:48 hrs 
Lib 14:36:12 
Thu 06:37:06 hrs. 


30 Oct 1984 08:28:42 
31 Oct 1984 09:40:05 
62:8:16 ghatis 
0:50:12 ghatis 
Sun-Venus-Mercury 
Sun Oy 0m 27d 
-23:38:27 Lahiri 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 2 


Date of Death (3 Birth Chart 


31 October 1984 * Wednesday ¢ 09:20:00 hrs ¢ Delhi, Delhi, India 


Ra 03:58 


Mo 09:49 


Gk 27:38 Ke 03:58 Su 14:15 
Ma 24:48 AS 19:10 Sa 24:06 
Ju 15:03 Ve 19:37 Me 26:52 


Moon Navamsha 


Ke As | Su Sa 
Ve Me 


Planet R/C Sign Degree Speed Nakshatra Pada RL Status SB 


Lagna Sco 19:10:21 Jyeshtha Ma 

Sun Lib 14:15:58 01:00:01 Swati Ve Debil. 0.88 
Moon Cap 09:49:31 12:31:51 Uttarashadha Sa Frond. 1.12 
Mars Sag 24:48:27 00:43:56 Poorvashadha Ju Neutr. 1.00 
Mercury C Lib 26:52:54 01:31:06 Vishakha Ve Grt.Fr. 1.38 
Jupiter Sag 15:03:21 00:09:54 Poorvashadha Ju Own 1.19 
Venus Sco 19:37:52 01:12:47 Jyeshtha Ma Frnd. 1.16 
Satun C Lib 24:06:03 00:07:07 Vishakha Ve Exalt. 1.20 
Rahu Tau 03:58:36 00:00:20 Krittika Ve Exalt. 
Ketu Sco 03:58:36 00:00:20 Anuradha Ma Exalt. 


SBWNR KF WH DB BR We 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 3 


Date of Death Chandra, Navamsha and Bhava 


Moon Chart Navamsha 


Ra Sa 


Gk As 
Ve 


Bhava(Sripati) 


Ra 


Mo 


Ju Ma 
Gk 


As Ve 


Ke Su 
Sa Me 


Bhava Spashta - Sripati System 


Bhava Arambha 
House beginning 


Bhava Number Bhava Madhya 


Middle of House 


Bhava Antya 
House ending 


First 

. Second 
Third 
Fourth 
Fifth 
Sixth 

. Seventh 
Eight 

. Ninth 
10. Tenth 
11. Eleventh 
12. Twelfth 


CAN AKWRWNE 


Sco 
Sag 
Cap 


06:00:41 
06:00:41 
09:41:22 
13:22:02 
13:22:02 
09:41:22 
06:00:41 
06:00:41 
09:41:22 
13:22:02 
13:22:02 
09:41:22 


19:10:21 
Sag 22:51:01 
Cap 26:31:42 
Pis 00:12:23 
1 26:31:42 
22:51:01 
19:10:21 
22:51:01 
26:31:42 
00:12:23 
26:31:42 
22:51:01 


Sco 


Sag 


06:00:41 
09:41:22 
13:22:02 
13:22:02 
09:41:22 
06:00:41 
06:00:41 
09:41:22 
13:22:02 
13:22:02 
09:41:22 
06:00:41 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 +4 


Date of Death (3 Sudarshan Chakra 


Sudarshan Chakra 


Outer Circle : Surya Chart 
Middle Circle : Chandra Chart 
Inner Circle : Birth Chart 


Ve AS Ke 
8 


Sudarshan Chakra represents the comparative positions of the planets in 
the Sun Chart, the Moon Chart and the Birth Chart simultaneously, 
from outer to inner circle respectively. 

To study a house, consider the signs in all the three charts simultaneously. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °5 


Date of Death (3 Divisional Charts #1 


Mo 


Ju Ma Ke As Su Sa 
Gk Ve Me 


Dreshkana (happiness siblin Chaturthamsha (destiny) 


Ra As 
As Ve Ju Ra Mo Ve 


Ke Ke 


Saptamsha (children) Navamsha (spouse 


JuSa Me Ma Ke Mo 


Mo As Gk As 
Ra Ve Ve Ma 


Dashamsha (great successes) Dwadashamsha (parents) 


Ju Sa Me Su Mo 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °6 


Date of Death (3 Divisional Charts #2 


Shodashamsha (conveyances) Vimshamsha (spiritual progress) 


As Me 
Sa Ve 


Ju 


Gk Ra 
Ke 


Ju Ve Su 


Su Ra Ke Mo Ma As Mo 


Chaturvimshamsha (knowledge) Saptavimshamsha (strength) 


Sa Ma Me Gk Mo Ke Gk Ju As Ve 


Mo Su Ma Sa 


Ju 


Ra Ke Me Ra 
As Ve Su 


Trimshamsha (misfortunes) Kvedamsha (ausp. inausp. effects) 


Ra Ke 
As Ve Ra Ke Me Gk 


Ma 


Ju Sa Su Mo 
Su Ju Me Gk Ve ‘As 


Akshavedamsha (all areas) Shashtiamsha (all areas) 


Sa Gk 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 *7 


Date of Death (3 Sub-Planets 


Upagrahas or Sub-planets 
Gulikaadi Group 


Birth between sun-rise and mid-day * Sunrise-Sunset : 06:36-17:32 * Astrological Weekday : Wednesday 


Upagraha Lord Duration of Beginning (Parashara Method) Ending (Kalidasa method) 


Upageahs Sign Degree Nakshatra P Sign Degree Nakshatra P 


Kaalavela Sun 12:04-13:26 Sag 27:38:36 U.Shad. 1 Cap 20:44:32 Shravana 4 
Paridhi Mon ~— 13:26-14:48 Cap 20:44:32 Shravana 4 Aqu 17:37:04 Satabhi. 4 
Mrityu Mar 14:48-16:10 Aqu 17:37:04 Satabhi. 4 Pis 16:47:01 Revati 1 
Ardhaprahara Mer 06:36-07:58 Lib 14:09:08 Swati 3. Sco 01:41:23 Vishakha 4 
Yamakantaka Jup 07:58-09:20 Sco 01:41:23 Vishakha 4 Sco 19:16:31 Jyeshtha 1 
Kodanda Ven 09:20-10:42 Sco 19:16:31 Jyeshtha 1 Sag 07:34:49 Moola 3 
Gulika Sat 10:42-12:04 Sag 07:34:49 Moola 3 Sag 27:38:36 U.Shad. 1 


Dhoomadi Group 


Upagraha Lord Sign Degree Nakshatra 


Dhooma Mar Aqu = 27:35:58 P.Bhadra. 
Vyatipata Rah Tau = 02:24:02. Krittika 
Parivesha Mon Sco — 02:24:02 Vishakha 
Inderchapa Ven Leo = 27:35:58 + U.Phalg. 
Upaketu Ket Vir 14:15:58 Hasta 


Upagraha Chart (Beginning Time) | Upagraha Chart (Ending Time) 


Vy 


Cp 


Ar Ym 
Uk Ko Gk Pv As 


Special Lagnas and Points 


Bhava Lagna Sco 25:03:41 Yogi Point 27:25:29 Lib 
Hora Lagna Cap 05:58:13 Yogi Ju 

Ghatika Lagna Tau 08:41:51 Avayogi/Duplicate Yogi Su/Ve 

Indu Lagna Sag 15:00:00 64th Navamsha (Moon/Asc§emini/Pisces 
Kshetra Sphuta Gem 19:41:19 22nd Dreshkana (Asc/Mood)ibra/Leo 
Birth chart/Navamsha odd/even 50% (medium) Sarpa Dreshkana VeKe 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 *8 


Date of Death (3 Birth Charts 


Date of birth : 31 October 1984, Wednesday Longitude/Latitude : 77E13'00 28N40'00 
Time of birth : 09:20:00 hrs Time zone : -05:30:00 hrs 
Place of birth : Delhi, Delhi, India DST : 00:00:00 hrs 


Birth Chart Moon Chart Sun Chart 


Mo Mo 


Ju Ma | Ke As Ju Ma | Ke As 
Gk Ve M Gk Ve 


Sripati Bhava Equal Bhava 


Ra 


Mo Mo 


Ju Ma Ke Su Ju Ma | Ke As| Su Sa Mo Ma Ju As 
Gk As Ve Sa Me Gk Ve Me Gk Ve Ke Me) Su Sa 


Arudha Lagna Chart Karkamsha in Birth Chart Karkamsha in Navamsha 


Ra Ra Mo Sa Me 


Mo 


Ju Ma | Ke As Gk As M 
Gk | Ve | M Ve A 


Hora Lagna Ghatika Lagna 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °9 


Date of Death 


Planetary Friendship 


Naisargik Maitri Chakra (Natural Relationship) 


Friends 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Jupiter 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Mercury 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Saturn 


Mercury 
Venus 
Rahu 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Enemies 


Neutral 


Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Rahu 
Ketu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Mercury 
Rahu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rah Ket 


Mercury 
Venus 


Sun 
Moon 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Ketu 


Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Jupiter 
Mercury 


Tatkalik Maitri Chakra (Temporal Relationship) 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Saturn 


Friends 


Enemies 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Ven Ket 
Mercury 
Saturn 
Rahu 


Sun 

Mar Mer 
Jup Ven 
Sat Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mer Ven 
Sat Ket 
Jupiter 
Rahu 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Ven Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mer Ven 
Sat Ket 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Ven Ket 
Sun 
Mercury 
Rahu 


Sun Mon 
Mar Mer 
Jup Ven 
Sat Ket 


Panchadha Maitri Chakra (Compound Relationship) 


Sun 


Moon 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Fast Friends 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Mercury 


Venus 


Sun 
Moon 


Mercury 
Saturn 


Venus 


Friends 


Neutral 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Mars 
Mercury 
Venus 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Rah Ket 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Enemies 


Bitter 
Enemies 


Rahu 


Mercury 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. 


Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 10 


Date of Death Shodashvarga Summary 


Shodashvarga Summary 


Signs occupied by planets in Shodashvargas 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu 


Janma Sco Lib Cap Sag Lib Sag Sco Lib Tau 
Hora Leo Leo Can Can Can Can Leo Can Can 
Dreshkana Pis Aqu Cap Leo Gem Ari Pis Gem Tau 
Chaturthamsha Tau Cap Ari Vir Can Gem Tau Can Tau 
Saptamsha Vir Cap Vir Tau Ari Pis Vir Pis Sco 
Navamsha Sag Aqu Pis Sco Gem Leo Sag Tau Aqu 
Dashamsha Cap Aqu Sag Leo Gem Tau Cap Gem Aqu 
Dwadashamsha Gem Pis Ari Vir Leo Gem Gem Can Gem 
Shodashamsha Gem Sco Vir Cap Gem Leo Gem Ari Lib 
Vimshamsha Sag Cap Lib Sag Vir Gem Cap Leo Aqu 
Chaturvimshamsha Lib Can Aqu Pis Tau Leo Lib Pis Lib 
Saptavimshamsha Gem Lib Pis Aqu Lib Tau Gem Can Lib 
Trimshamsha Pis Sag Vir Gem Lib Sag Pis Gem Tau 
Khavedamsha Sco Sco Sco Cap Pis Sag Sag Sag Pis 
Akshavedamsha Sag Cap Gem Cap Leo Lib Cap Ari 
Shashtiamsha Cap Aqu Leo Cap Pis Gem __ Aqu Lib 


Dignities of planets in Shodashvargas 


Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn 


Janma Debil. — Frnd. Neutr. Grt.Fr. Own Frnd. Exalt. 

Hora Own Own Debil. Exalt. Grt.En. Grt.En. 
Dreshkana Grt.En. Enemy : Neutr. Exalt. Neutr. 
Chaturthamsha Grt.En. Enemy : , Neutr. Own Neutr. 
Saptamsha Neutr. Neutr. ; Own Debil. Enemy 
Navamsha Neutr. Enemy Neutr. Enemy  Neutr. 
Dashamsha Grt.En. Enemy é Grt.En. Neutr. Neutr. 
Dwadashamsha Grt.Fr. Enemy : 2 Neutr. Grt.Fr. = Neutr. 
Shodashamsha Grt.Fr.  Grt.Fr. : Grt.Fr. — Neutr. Debil. 
Vimshamsha Grt.En. : : Neutr. Neutr. Grt.En. 
Chaturvimshamsha Neutr. : : ; Grt.Fr. Own Enemy 
Saptavimshamsha Debil. : : Neutr. Neutr. Grt.En. 
Trimshamsha Neutr. .Fr. .En. , Moolt. — Exalt. Neutr. 
Khavedamsha Grt.Fr. il. : il. Moolt. Enemy Enemy 
Akshavedamsha  Neutr. .Fr. . : Neutr. Grt.Fr. — Debil. 
Shashtiamsha Grt.En. : . il. Neutr. Neutr. Exalt. ’ Jeutr, 


Vimshopaka Bala 


Sun Jupiter Venus Saturn 
Shadavarga 10 
Saptavarga 12 
Dashavarga 10 
Shodashavarga 10 


Dispositors in 6 divisions (Shad Varga) 


Sun Moon Mars Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu 


Ju(2) ~-Sa(2)~—- Me(2) Ju(2) ‘Ju(3).~—s Mo(2)_—-Ve(3) 

Sa(2)  Mo(1) Mo(1) Mo(1) Ma(1) Me(2) Mo(1) 

Su(1) Ma(1) Ma(1) Ma(1) Me(1) Ve(2) + Me(1) 

Ve(1) Me(1)  Su(1) Me(1) Su(1) Sa(1) 
Ju(l) Ju) Su(1) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 11 


Date of Death 


Ochcha Bala 
Sapta-vargaja Bala 
Ojhayugma bala 
Kendradi Bala 
Drekkana Bala 

. Sthana Bala 


. Dig-Bala 


Sun 


1.42 
88.12 
30.00 
15.00 

0.00 

134.55 


45.31 


Moon 


22.28 
135.00 
30.00 
15.00 
0.00 
202.28 


43.21 


Shad Bala 
Mars Mercury 


48.94 
112.50 
15.00 
30.00 
0.00 
206.44 


21.80 


46.04 
135.00 
30.00 
15.00 
0.00 
226.04 


52.57 


Shad Bala and Bhava Bala 


Jupiter 
6.65 


150.00 
30.00 
30.00 

0.00 

216.65 


51.37 


Venus 


17.54 
112.50 
15.00 
60.00 
0.00 
205.04 


26.47 


Saturn 


58.63 
90.00 
15.00 
15.00 

0.00 


178.63 


8.36 


Nata-Unnata Bala 
Paksha Bala 
Tri-Bhaga Bala 
Varsha Bala 
Maasa Bala 
Vaara Bala 
Hora Bala 
Ayana Bala 
Yuddha Bala 

3. Kaala Bala 


4. Chesta Bala 
5. Naisargika Bala 


46.12 
31.48 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
11.57 


0.00 
89.17 


11.57 
60.00 


13.88 
28.52 
0.00 
0.00 
30.00 
0.00 
0.00 
55.03 


0.00 
127.42 


28.52 
51.42 


13.88 
31.48 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
1.54 


0.00 
46.90 


42.85 
17.16 


60.00 
31.48 
60.00 
0.00 
0.00 
45.00 
0.00 
53.16 


0.00 
249.64 


23.40 
25.74 


46.12 
28.52 
60.00 
15.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.35 


0.00 
149.99 


36.06 
34.26 


46.12 
28.52 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
1.27 


0.00 
75.91 


33.47 
42.84 


13.88 
31.48 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
60.00 
52.21 
0.00 


157.57 


6.16 
8.58 


6. Drig Bala 


2.27 


-48.59 


-34.61 


1.62 


-23.51 


-0.67 


1.88 


Total Shadbala 


Shadbala in Rupas 
Minimum requirements 390 360 300 420 390 330 300 


% of required 


342.87 
5.71 


0.88 


404.25 
6.74 


1.12 


300.53 
5.01 


1.00 


579.01 
9.65 


1.38 


464.81 
7.75 


1.19 


383.07 
6.38 


1.16 


361.18 


6.02 


1.20 


Sthana Bala % req. 
Dig-Bala % req 
Kaala Bala % req. 
Chesta Bala % req. 


0.82 
1.29 
0.80 
0.23 


1.52 
0.86 
1.27 
0.95 


215 
0.73 
0.70 
1.07 


1.37 
1.50 
2.23 
0.47 


1.31 
1.47 
1.34 
0.72 


1.54 
0.53 
0.76 
1.12 


1.86 
0.28 
2.35 
0.15 


Drig-Bala % req. 0.39 1.38 0.08 1.77 0.01 0.03 2.61 


Relative Rank 


7 


5 


6 


1 


3 


4 


2 


Ishta Phala 
Kashta Phala 


9.39 
50.61 


25.40 
34.60 


45.89 
14.11 


34.72 
25.28 


21.35 
38.65 


25.51 
34.49 


32.40 
27.60 


Bhava Bala 
VI VI 


VU OX x 


Rashi 


Ari 


Tau 


Gem 


Can Leo 


Degree 


19 


19 19 19 


From Lord 

Dig Bala 

Drishti 

Planets in 

Day-Night 15 


Bhava Bala Total 315 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


383 
30 
-44 


579 404 342 
10 40 60 
12 17 54 

0 0 0 
15 0 15 


617 462 472 


HP3 + 12 


Date of Death (3 Aspects on Planets and Bhavas 


Aspects on Planets 


Aspecting Planets 


Aspected Sun Moon Mars’ MercuryJupiter Venus Saturn Rahu  Ketu 
Planets 194:15 279:49 264:48 206:52 255:03 229:37 204:06 33:58 213:58 


Sun - 1/4 = : 
(12) (20) 


Moon 4/4 
(54) 


Mars 3/4 
(55) 


Mercury 2 
(45) 


Jupiter 3/4 
(50) 


Venus 4/4 
(52) 


Saturn 


(40) 


Rahu 7 4/4 
(41) (28) 


Ketu - - 


Aspects on Bhavas 


Aspecting Planets 


Aspected Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu  Ketu 
Bhava 194:15 279:49 264:48 206:52 255:03 229:37 204:06 33:58 213:58 


First 2 - - - - - - 52 
Second 19 11 50 52 
Third 42 - 37 47 44 
Fourth 25 33 

Fifth 9 | 

Sixth 57 

Seventh 42 

Eighth 27 

Ninth 

Tenth 

Eleventh 

Twelfth 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 13 


Date of Death 


Planet 


Planetary Avasthas 


Graha Avasthas - Planets and their Moods 


Jagradadi 
Avastha 
(set of 3) 


Baladi 
Avastha 
(set of 5) 


Lajjitadi Avastha Deeptadi 
Avastha 


(set of 9) 


Shyanadi 
Avastha 


(set of 6) (set of 12) 


Sun 


Moon 


Sushupti 
(State of sleep) 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Vridhha 
(Old age) 


Kshudit Khala 


(Wicked) 


Netrapani 
(hands on eyes) 


Mudit Gamana 


(Departing) 


Shanta 
(Quiescent) 


Mars 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Mudit Deena 


(Deficient) 


Nrityalipsa 
(desire to dance) 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Jagrad 
(Wakefulness) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Kshudit Kshobit Mudita 


(Delighted) 


Nrityalipsa 
(desire to dance) 


Swastha 
(Stable) 


Agama 
(Arriving) 


Venus 


Swapna 
(Dreamful) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Mudit Shanta 


(Quiescent) 


Nrityalipsa 
(desire to dance) 


Saturn 


Rahu 


Jagrad 
(Wakefulness) 


Jagrad 
(Wakefulness) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Garvit Deepta 


(Luminous) 


Agama 
(Arriving) 


Garvit Mudit Deepta 


(Luminous) 


Nrityalipsa 
(desire to dance) 


Ketu 


Jagrad 
(Wakefulness) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Garvit Mudit Gamana 


(Departing) 


Deepta 
(Luminous) 


Neecha-bhanga Yogas (Cancellation of debilitation) 


Neech-bhanga yogas for Sun 
- Sun is with an Exalted Graha. 
- The dispositor of Sun is in a Kendra. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 14 


HP3 +15 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #1 


00 xt 00 00 CN I~ SF \O 


48 


thr Ooroot 


mrrnssrnn 


39 


CO SF COM 00 00 \O[~ 


iv) 
ep 
i) 
> 
& 
i.) 
~ 
co 
N 
: 
c= 
aa 
i} 
& 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
i) 
oy 
S 
a 
is) 
— 
co 
nN 
< 


1011121 2 3 4 5 6 


oonmoonon 


Sa HOMO 


aOR ROoOnROoOeo 


On RHOnm Ho 


aon oOoOoO 


oO Orn OO 


oonmoonno 


ooocoo7noen 


On OoCOorN 


oonmoonoo 


=OOonmOOonmO 


aon OoOnToOO 


oncoo°oono 


ons OoOonnoO 


onmnron oo 


aOR OO 


onOnen HHO 


onoooono 


oon emesOoOoO 


oon Ono 


asRHOnmROHO 


aon OoOn TOO 


1011121 23 45 67 8 


onoooons 


ano OOO 


onnon oor 


roOonOonOoe 


aon OOCooO 


-OoOnoOon-OoOneo 


=a OOOCoCooO 


=sOCOoOnmooOn 


oon One O 


ooonmonoo 


aon OOoCoo- 


1011121 2 3 4 5 6 


Soon sOoOn 
ORR ON ee 
aso oOO 
SOR See 
aA OOoOooCoooO 
=sOCCoOon-! 
Coons soOO 
SOO m HHH 
=OonmOnmoOooO 
oonmonmnor 


an OOoOnOnes 


54 


Date of Death 


732423 5 45 4 6 3 
101112123 45 67 8 9 
5 45 4425 6 4 4 2 4 |49 
3.3 243243 4 4 4 3 
5543 543 2 75 6 5 


7 8 9 
7 8 9 


ocoonOn aes Sn HOON Oo 


9 


y 


Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Mercur 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 16 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #2 


WJFOOT~DNOCOND 


56 


MmNONNDNDACO 


Ftor~ Momo 


39 


ONNOMM™ Nt 


i.e) 
ep 
i) 
> 
& 
i.) 
~ 
co 
N 
: 
c= 
aa 
i} 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
i) 
- 
S 
a 
is) 
— 
co 
nN 
< 


1011121 23 45 67 8 


ooonmOonnes 


ona nOnOoOoO 


Sqn On Orne 


ooonnmenoOr 


Ones aee 


ona noOnOoOoO 


ooonoon- 


ooonmnoon 


Sqn Onn Or 


aS OCORNERs 


onan OnoOoO 


2345 67 


on oOoooo 


OnOnesOnes 


Sea OO 


an OOnmoOoOn 


=aOCOonmnOoOn 


sOoOnnROoOOoOHne 


on OooonoO 


oo°oconass 


aOR OR aes 


roOooCc-.Orns 


aOC0C0O0RN aes 


1011121 2 3 4 5 6 


oononnon 
=sOCnOnTO- 
ooononooeo 
ooocoonmnTo 
onan oOnoo 
Oona OO- 
-OCOoOoOnmnoO 
=sOoOnRmOCCO- 
ooonoococn- 
=mOCOoOCCoOoO 


Ones OOns 


1233 542 2 4 4 


aa OOO 
onan oOooOr 
aa OonmOnoOn 
aOOonmnTOoOO 
onoononoO 
on Oonoo 
onooooon 
aon TO 
oonmonooo 
aon Oe 


Sq OM Oo 


49 


Date of Death 


645633474 6 4 4 

8 9 1011 121 
454643444 75 2 [52 
7 8 9 

8 9 1011121 23 45 67 
3.662623 3 45 4 5 


4 5 


oonmonone oooconnnoO 


9 


La 
S 


Sign 
gna 

ign 
Totals 


Jupiter 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Date of Death Sarvashtaka & Chancha Chakra 


Sarvashtakvarga 


Samudaya Ashtakavarga 
29 26 23 


10 11 12 
2 


ion 


27 


25 


MWBwW Www BU) NO] Se 


23 


Wl MOBAMWNAB/! HP] H 


=) 
Wl BRaADNMBBW) BLD 


— 
Wl BNYBNKBRBALN| A 


oO 
NY |RPanRw BRN] DAD! © 


Nn 


N NPBA BNY| WwW] VW 
WIBRAIBDRAD| UN wn 
~ MABBBOWN WwW] WwW! CO 


N | RPBWNHNABA] WY] b 
oo 


Ww 
NI VARBRWWUNAR!D 


N |_whnRBRUNW 


N 
n 
Nn 
a 


Sarva Chancha Chakra 


Mo Me Ve Su Ma Ju Si 
a 


44532 


5 3 : 
342 26 42a 


6 4 C 
1 25 Ve as ef 3 4 4 J 


38 442 


33 23 24 
5/4479344\5 


S 
a Ju Ma Su Ve Me Mo 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 17 


Date of Death (3 Ashtakavarga - Reductions 


Before Reduction Trikona Reduction Ekadhipatya Reduction 


Sun 5 4 0 3 1 0 3 0 


0 0 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 1 
Sodhya Pinda 


Moon 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mars 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mercury 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Jupiter 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Venus 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Saturn 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Lagna 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 18 


Date of Death Divisional Charts - Ashtakavarga 


Divisional Charts - Ashtakavarga 


Birth chart Samudaya Ashtakavarga Hora (wealth) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


29 26 23 27 31 48 


JuRa Ke 
Sa Ma Mo 
Me Gk 


As Ve 
Su 


Su Sa 


Gk Ve Me 25 26 30 29 29 25 


Dreshkana (happiness siblings) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Saptamsha (children) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


As Ve Ju Ra_ | SaMe 32 30 24 Ju Sa Me | Ma Ke 23 18 20 


Ke 26 35 26 Ra 29 32 26 
Ve 


Navamsha (spouse) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Dashamsha (great successes) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


Mo Sa 31 23 32 Ju Sa Me 33 34 26 


Ma 30 26 30 Mo Gk 24 34 36 


Dwadashamsha (parents) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Shodashamsha (conveyances) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


Ju Ra As Me 
Su Mo ‘As Ve 27 38 29 Sa Ve 26 34 22 


Sa 


Ke Gk 25 28 30 Su | RaKe 18 37 27 


Trimshamsha (misfortun Samudaya Ashtakavarga Shashtiamsha (all areas) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


As Ve Ra Ke 30 27 22 Me 26 28 27 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 19 


Date of Death 


Influence of Grahas on Physiology 


Planet 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Sookshma Scheme 


Body Part 


Left shoulder 
Right ear 
Generative organs 
Anus 

Right Shoulder 
Right side of Neck 
Anus 

Mouth 

Head 


Sthoola Scheme 


Planet 


Body Part Body Part 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Nakshatra Scheme 


Space below navel Feet 
Knees Arms 
Thighs Face 
Space below navel Feet 
Thighs Face 
Generative organs Head 
Space below navel Feet 


Face Space below navel 


Generative organs Head 


Health 


Planet Nakshatra 


Opinion 1 Opinion 2 


Sun Swati 

Moon Uttarashadha 
Mars Poorvashadha 
Mercury Vishakha 
Jupiter Poorvashadha 
Venus Jyeshtha 
Saturn Vishakha 
Rahu Krittika 

Ketu Anuradha 


Teeth Chest 

-- Brain 
Both thighs Back 

The two arms Breast 
Both thighs Back 
Tongue Right side 
The two arms Breast 
Waist Head 
Heart Stomach 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 20 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari MD and AD 


Vimshottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Sun (6y) 
From 0 yrs. to OyOm 


Moon (10y) 
From 0y0Om to 9yllm 


: Sun Oy 0m 27d 
: Su-Ve-Me-Sa-Sa 


Mars (7y) 
From 9yllmto 16y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Rahu 

Jupiter 

Saturn 

Mercury 

Ketu 

Venus 31-10-1984 28-11-1984 


Moon 28-11-1984 24-09-1985 
Mars 24-09-1985 22-04-1986 
Rahu 22-04-1986 14-10-1987 
Jupiter 14-10-1987 05-02-1989 
Saturn 05-02-1989 29-08-1990 
Mercury 29-08-1990 21-01-1992 
Ketu 21-01-1992 18-08-1992 
Venus 18-08-1992 10-04-1994 
Sun 10-04-1994 07-10-1994 


Mars 07-10-1994 03-03-1995 
Rahu 03-03-1995 15-03-1996 
Jupiter 15-03-1996 14-02-1997 
Saturn 14-02-1997 20-03-1998 
Mercury 20-03-1998 12-03-1999 
Ketu 12-03-1999 06-08-1999 
Venus 06-08-1999 29-09-2000 
Sun 29-09-2000 02-02-2001 
Moon 02-02-2001 31-08-2001 


Rahu (18y) 
From 16y10m to34y6m 


Jupiter (16y) 
From 34y6m to 50y4m 


Saturn (19y) 
From 50y4m to 69y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 31-08-2001 29-04-2004 
Jupiter 29-04-2004 10-09-2006 
Saturn 10-09-2006 02-07-2009 
Mercury 02-07-2009 06-01-2012 
Ketu 06-01-2012 18-01-2013 
Venus 18-01-2013 03-01-2016 
Sun 03-01-2016 22-11-2016 
Moon =. 22-11-2016 16-05-2018 
Mars 16-05-2018 29-05-2019 


Jupiter 29-05-2019 05-07-2021 
Saturn 05-07-2021 03-01-2024 
Mercury 03-01-2024 29-03-2026 
Ketu 29-03-2026 28-02-2027 
Venus 28-02-2027 15-10-2029 
Sun 15-10-2029 30-07-2030 
Moon 30-07-2030 22-11-2031 
Mars 22-11-2031 23-10-2032 
Rahu 23-10-2032 06-03-2035 


Saturn 06-03-2035 21-02-2038 
Mercury 21-02-2038 17-10-2040 
Ketu 17-10-2040 20-11-2041 
Venus 20-11-2041 03-01-2045 
Sun 03-01-2045 11-12-2045 
Moon — 11-12-2045 04-07-2047 
Mars 04-07-2047 06-08-2048 
Rahu 06-08-2048 29-05-2051 


Jupiter 29-05-2051 26-11-2053 


Mercury (17y) 
From 69y0m to 85y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Mercury 26-11-2053 11-04-2056 


Ketu 11-04-2056 03-04-2057 
Venus 03-04-2057 18-01-2060 
Sun 18-01-2060 19-11-2060 
Moon 19-11-2060 13-04-2062 
Mars 13-04-2062 05-04-2063 
Rahu 05-04-2063 09-10-2065 


Jupiter 09-10-2065 03-01-2068 


Saturn 03-01-2068 29-08-2070 


Ketu (7y) 
From 85y9m to 92y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 29-08-2070 23-01-2071 


Venus 23-01-2071 18-03-2072 
Sun 18-03-2072 22-07-2072 
Moon =. 22-07-2072 17-02-2073 
Mars 17-02-2073 14-07-2073 
Rahu 14-07-2073 27-07-2074 
Jupiter 27-07-2074 28-06-2075 
Saturn 28-06-2075 31-07-2076 


Mercury 31-07-2076 23-07-2077 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Venus (20y) 


From 92y8mto 112y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 23-07-2077 04-11-2080 
Sun 04-11-2080 30-10-2081 
Moon 30-10-2081 22-06-2083 
Mars 22-06-2083 15-08-2084 
Rahu 15-08-2084 31-07-2087 
Jupiter 31-07-2087 17-03-2090 
Saturn 17-03-2090 30-04-2093 
Mercury 30-04-2093 14-02-2096 
Ketu 14-02-2096 09-04-2097 


HP3 « 21 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #1 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Sun-Sun 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Sun-Rahu 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Sun-Mercury 


Age: 0y0mto Oy 0m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sun-Moon 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 


Sun-Jupiter 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Sun-Ketu 


Sun Mahadasha 31-10-1984 to 28-11-1984 


Sun-Mars 
Antar __ Beginning 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Sun-Saturn 
Antar __ Beginning 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun-Venus 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar _ Beginning 


Ending 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 31-10-1984 07-11-1984 
Ketu 07-11-1984 28-11-1984 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 22 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #2 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Moon Mahadasha 28-11-1984 to 07-10-1994 
Age : Oy 0m to 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Moon-Moon OyOm* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


28-11-1984 23-12-1984 
23-12-1984 10-01-1985 
10-01-1985 24-02-1985 
24-02-1985 05-04-1985 
Saturn 05-04-1985 22-05-1985 
Mercury 22-05-1985 04-07-1985 
Ketu 04-07-1985 21-07-1985 
Venus 21-07-1985 09-09-1985 
09-09-1985 24-09-1985 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 


2yllm 


Moon-Jupiter 


Antar Beginning Ending 


14-10-1987 17-12-1987 
Saturn 17-12-1987 02-03-1988 
Mercury 02-03-1988 09-05-1988 
Ketu 09-05-1988 06-06-1988 
Venus 06-06-1988 25-08-1988 
25-08-1988 18-09-1988 
18-09-1988 28-10-1988 
28-10-1988 25-11-1988 
25-11-1988 05-02-1989 


Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Moon-Ketu Ty2m 


Moon-Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Moon-Saturn 


Antar 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Moon-Venus 


9y 11m 


Oy10m 
Beginning Ending 


24-09-1985 06-10-1985 
06-10-1985 07-11-1985 
07-11-1985 05-12-1985 
05-12-1985 07-01-1986 
07-01-1986 06-02-1986 
06-02-1986 18-02-1986 
18-02-1986 25-03-1986 
25-03-1986 05-04-1986 
05-04-1986 22-04-1986 


4y3m 
Beginning Ending 


05-02-1989 06-05-1989 
06-05-1989 26-07-1989 
26-07-1989 28-08-1989 
28-08-1989 01-12-1989 
01-12-1989 30-12-1989 
30-12-1989 15-02-1990 
15-02-1990 21-03-1990 
21-03-1990 14-06-1990 
14-06-1990 29-08-1990 


Ty9m 


Moon-Rahu lySm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


22-04-1986 12-07-1986 
12-07-1986 22-09-1986 
Saturn 22-09-1986 17-12-1986 
Mercury 17-12-1986 03-03-1987 
Ketu 03-03-1987 04-04-1987 
Venus 04-04-1987 03-07-1987 
03-07-1987 30-07-1987 
30-07-1987 13-09-1987 
13-09-1987 14-10-1987 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Moon-Mercury 5y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 29-08-1990 09-11-1990 
Ketu 09-11-1990 09-12-1990 
Venus 09-12-1990 04-03-1991 
04-03-1991 30-03-1991 
30-03-1991 11-05-1991 
11-05-1991 10-06-1991 
10-06-1991 25-08-1991 
25-08-1991 01-11-1991 
01-11-1991 21-01-1992 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Moon-Sun 9y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


21-01-1992 02-02-1992 
02-02-1992 08-03-1992 
08-03-1992 19-03-1992 
19-03-1992 05-04-1992 
05-04-1992 18-04-1992 
18-04-1992 19-05-1992 
19-05-1992 16-06-1992 
Saturn 16-06-1992 19-07-1992 
Mercury 19-07-1992 18-08-1992 


Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


18-08-1992 26-11-1992 
26-11-1992 26-12-1992 
26-12-1992 14-02-1993 
14-02-1993 21-03-1993 
21-03-1993 19-06-1993 
19-06-1993 07-09-1993 
07-09-1993 11-12-1993 
11-12-1993 06-03-1994 
06-03-1994 10-04-1994 


10-04-1994 19-04-1994 
19-04-1994 04-05-1994 
04-05-1994 15-05-1994 
15-05-1994 11-06-1994 
11-06-1994 05-07-1994 
Saturn 05-07-1994 02-08-1994 
Mercury 02-08-1994 28-08-1994 
Ketu 28-08-1994 07-09-1994 
Venus 07-09-1994 07-10-1994 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 23 


Date of Death 


Mars-Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Mars-Saturn 


Antar 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mars-Venus 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #3 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Mars Mahadasha 07-10-1994 to 31-08-2001 


9y11m* 
Beginning Ending 


07-10-1994 16-10-1994 
16-10-1994 07-11-1994 
07-11-1994 26-11-1994 
26-11-1994 20-12-1994 
20-12-1994 10-01-1995 
10-01-1995 18-01-1995 
18-01-1995 12-02-1995 
12-02-1995 19-02-1995 
19-02-1995 03-03-1995 


12y3m 
Beginning Ending 


14-02-1997 18-04-1997 
18-04-1997 14-06-1997 
14-06-1997 07-07-1997 
07-07-1997 12-09-1997 
12-09-1997 02-10-1997 
02-10-1997 04-11-1997 
04-11-1997 27-11-1997 
27-11-1997 26-01-1998 
26-01-1998 20-03-1998 


14y9m 


Age : 9y 11m tol6y 10m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mars-Rahu 10y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


03-03-1995 29-04-1995 
29-04-1995 18-06-1995 
Saturn 18-06-1995 17-08-1995 
Mercury 17-08-1995 10-10-1995 
Ketu 10-10-1995 01-11-1995 
Venus = 01-11-1995 03-01-1996 
Sun 03-01-1996 22-01-1996 
22-01-1996 22-02-1996 
22-02-1996 15-03-1996 


Moon 
Mars 


13y4m 


Mars-Mercury 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 20-03-1998 10-05-1998 
Ketu 10-05-1998 31-05-1998 
Venus 31-05-1998 29-07-1998 
Sun 29-07-1998 16-08-1998 
16-08-1998 15-09-1998 
15-09-1998 06-10-1998 
06-10-1998 28-11-1998 
28-11-1998 15-01-1999 
15-01-1999 12-03-1999 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mars-Sun 15y10m 


Mars-Jupiter lly4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


15-03-1996 29-04-1996 
Saturn 29-04-1996 21-06-1996 
Mercury 21-06-1996 08-08-1996 
Ketu 08-08-1996 27-08-1996 
Venus 27-08-1996 22-10-1996 
Sun 22-10-1996 08-11-1996 
08-11-1996 06-12-1996 
06-12-1996 26-12-1996 
26-12-1996 14-02-1997 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Mars-Ketu 14y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 12-03-1999 21-03-1999 
Venus 21-03-1999 14-04-1999 
Sun 14-04-1999 22-04-1999 
22-04-1999 04-05-1999 
04-05-1999 12-05-1999 
12-05-1999 03-06-1999 
03-06-1999 23-06-1999 
Saturn 23-06-1999 16-07-1999 
Mercury 16-07-1999 06-08-1999 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mars-Moon l6y3m 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


06-08-1999 15-10-1999 
15-10-1999 05-11-1999 
05-11-1999 10-12-1999 
10-12-1999 04-01-2000 
04-01-2000 07-03-2000 
07-03-2000 02-05-2000 
02-05-2000 07-07-2000 
07-07-2000 05-09-2000 
05-09-2000 29-09-2000 


Sun 29-09-2000 05-10-2000 
05-10-2000 16-10-2000 
16-10-2000 23-10-2000 
23-10-2000 11-11-2000 
11-11-2000 28-11-2000 
Saturn 28-11-2000 18-12-2000 
Mercury 18-12-2000 05-01-2001 
Ketu 05-01-2001 12-01-2001 
Venus = 12-01-2001 02-02-2001 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


02-02-2001 20-02-2001 
20-02-2001 04-03-2001 
04-03-2001 04-04-2001 
04-04-2001 02-05-2001 
Saturn 02-05-2001 05-06-2001 
Mercury 05-06-2001 04-07-2001 
Ketu 04-07-2001 17-07-2001 
Venus 17-07-2001 21-08-2001 
Sun 21-08-2001 31-08-2001 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 24 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #4 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Rahu_ Mahadasha 31-08-2001 to 29-05-2019 


Rahu-Rahu 16y10m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 31-08-2001 24-01-2002 


24-01-2002 03-06-2002 
Saturn 03-06-2002 03-11-2002 
Mercury 03-11-2002 21-03-2003 
Ketu 21-03-2003 17-05-2003 
Venus 17-05-2003 26-10-2003 
Sun 26-10-2003 13-12-2003 
Moon 13-12-2003 03-03-2004 


Jupiter 


Mars 03-03-2004 29-04-2004 


Rahu-Mercury 24y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 02-07-2009 09-11-2009 


Ketu 09-11-2009 02-01-2010 
Venus 02-01-2010 04-06-2010 
Sun 04-06-2010 20-07-2010 
Moon —=_20-07-2010 04-10-2010 
Mars 04-10-2010 27-11-2010 
Rahu 27-11-2010 13-04-2011 
13-04-2011 14-08-2011 
14-08-2011 06-01-2012 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Rahu-Sun 3ly2m 


Age: Loy 10m t4y 6m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rahu-Jupiter 19y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


29-04-2004 22-08-2004 
Saturn 22-08-2004 06-01-2005 
Mercury 06-01-2005 09-05-2005 
Ketu 09-05-2005 28-06-2005 
Venus 28-06-2005 19-11-2005 
Sun 19-11-2005 01-01-2006 
Moon 01-01-2006 14-03-2006 
Mars 14-03-2006 04-05-2006 


Jupiter 


Rahu 04-05-2006 10-09-2006 


Rahu-Ketu 27y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 06-01-2012 28-01-2012 


Venus 28-01-2012 31-03-2012 
Sun 31-03-2012 19-04-2012 
Moon — 19-04-2012 21-05-2012 
Mars 21-05-2012 12-06-2012 
Rahu 12-06-2012 07-08-2012 
07-08-2012 27-09-2012 
27-09-2012 26-11-2012 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 26-11-2012 18-01-2013 


Rahu-Moon 32y0m 


Rahu-Saturn 2ly10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 10-09-2006 20-02-2007 
Mercury 20-02-2007 15-07-2007 
Ketu 15-07-2007 13-09-2007 
Venus = 13-09-2007 02-03-2008 
Sun 02-03-2008 22-04-2008 
Moon =. 22-04-2008 17-07-2008 
Mars 17-07-2008 14-09-2008 
Rahu 14-09-2008 15-02-2009 


Jupiter 15-02-2009 02-07-2009 


Rahu-Venus 28y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus = 18-01-2013 17-07-2013 
Sun 17-07-2013 09-09-2013 
Moon = 09-09-2013 08-12-2013 
Mars 08-12-2013 09-02-2014 
Rahu 09-02-2014 21-07-2014 
21-07-2014 12-12-2014 
Saturn 12-12-2014 01-06-2015 
Mercury 01-06-2015 01-11-2015 
Ketu 01-11-2015 03-01-2016 


Jupiter 


Rahu-Mars 33y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 03-01-2016 19-01-2016 
Moon 19-01-2016 15-02-2016 
Mars 15-02-2016 05-03-2016 
Rahu 05-03-2016 23-04-2016 
23-04-2016 05-06-2016 
Saturn 05-06-2016 26-07-2016 
Mercury 26-07-2016 10-09-2016 
Ketu 10-09-2016 29-09-2016 
Venus 29-09-2016 22-11-2016 


Jupiter 


Moon =. 22-11-2016 06-01-2017 
Mars 06-01-2017 07-02-2017 
Rahu 07-02-2017 29-04-2017 
29-04-2017 10-07-2017 
Saturn 10-07-2017 03-10-2017 
Mercury 03-10-2017 19-12-2017 
Ketu 19-12-2017 19-01-2018 
Venus 19-01-2018 19-04-2018 
Sun 19-04-2018 16-05-2018 


Jupiter 


Mars 16-05-2018 07-06-2018 
Rahu 07-06-2018 03-08-2018 
03-08-2018 22-09-2018 
Saturn 22-09-2018 21-11-2018 
Mercury 21-11-2018 14-01-2019 
Ketu 14-01-2019 05-02-2019 
Venus 05-02-2019 09-04-2019 
Sun 09-04-2019 28-04-2019 
Moon — 28-04-2019 29-05-2019 


Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 25 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #5 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Jupiter Mahadasha 29-05-2019 to 06-03-2035 


Jupiter-Jupiter 34y6m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


29-05-2019 09-09-2019 
09-09-2019 08-01-2020 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 08-01-2020 26-04-2020 
Ketu 26-04-2020 10-06-2020 
Venus 10-06-2020 16-10-2020 
Sun 16-10-2020 23-11-2020 
Moon =. 23-11-2020 26-01-2021 
Mars 26-01-2021 12-03-2021 
Rahu 12-03-2021 05-07-2021 


Jupiter-Ketu 4ly4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 29-03-2026 18-04-2026 


Venus = 18-04-2026 13-06-2026 
Sun 13-06-2026 30-06-2026 
Moon = 30-06-2026 28-07-2026 
Mars 28-07-2026 16-08-2026 
Rahu 16-08-2026 06-10-2026 
06-10-2026 19-11-2026 
19-11-2026 12-01-2027 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 12-01-2027 28-02-2027 


Jupiter-Moon 45y8m 


Age : 34y 6m to 50y 4m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Jupiter-Saturn 36y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 05-07-2021 27-11-2021 
Mercury 27-11-2021 05-04-2022 
Ketu 05-04-2022 28-05-2022 
Venus 28-05-2022 27-10-2022 
Sun 27-10-2022 12-12-2022 
Moon — 12-12-2022 26-02-2023 
Mars 26-02-2023 20-04-2023 
Rahu 20-04-2023 04-09-2023 


Jupiter 04-09-2023 03-01-2024 


Jupiter-Venus 42y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 28-02-2027 07-08-2027 


Sun 07-08-2027 24-09-2027 
Moon =. 24-09-2027 13-12-2027 
Mars 13-12-2027 07-02-2028 
Rahu 07-02-2028 30-06-2028 
30-06-2028 05-11-2028 
Saturn 05-11-2028 06-04-2029 
Mercury 06-04-2029 20-08-2029 


Jupiter 


Ketu 20-08-2029 15-10-2029 


Jupiter-Mars 47y0m 


Jupiter-Mercury 39y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 03-01-2024 28-04-2024 
Ketu 28-04-2024 14-06-2024 
Venus 14-06-2024 28-10-2024 
Sun 28-10-2024 08-12-2024 
Moon 08-12-2024 14-02-2025 
Mars 14-02-2025 03-04-2025 
Rahu 03-04-2025 03-08-2025 
03-08-2025 20-11-2025 
20-11-2025 29-03-2026 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Jupiter-Sun 44y11m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 15-10-2029 30-10-2029 
Moon 30-10-2029 23-11-2029 
Mars 23-11-2029 09-12-2029 
Rahu 09-12-2029 22-01-2030 
22-01-2030 01-03-2030 
Saturn 01-03-2030 16-04-2030 
Mercury 16-04-2030 26-05-2030 
Ketu 26-05-2030 12-06-2030 
Venus 12-06-2030 30-07-2030 


Jupiter 


Jupiter-Rahu 47yl1m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 30-07-2030 08-09-2030 
Mars 08-09-2030 06-10-2030 
Rahu 06-10-2030 17-12-2030 
17-12-2030 19-02-2031 
Saturn 19-02-2031 06-05-2031 
Mercury 06-05-2031 13-07-2031 
Ketu 13-07-2031 10-08-2031 
Venus 10-08-2031 29-10-2031 
Sun 29-10-2031 22-11-2031 


Jupiter 


Mars 22-11-2031 12-12-2031 
Rahu 12-12-2031 31-01-2032 
31-01-2032 16-03-2032 
Saturn 16-03-2032 08-05-2032 
Mercury 08-05-2032 25-06-2032 
Ketu 25-06-2032 14-07-2032 
Venus 14-07-2032 08-09-2032 
Sun 08-09-2032 25-09-2032 
Moon =. 25-09-2032 23-10-2032 


Jupiter 


Rahu 23-10-2032 02-03-2033 
02-03-2033 25-06-2033 
Saturn 25-06-2033 09-11-2033 
Mercury 09-11-2033 11-03-2034 
Ketu 11-03-2034 01-05-2034 
Venus 01-05-2034 22-09-2034 
Sun 22-09-2034 04-11-2034 
Moon = 04-11-2034 15-01-2035 
Mars 15-01-2035 06-03-2035 


Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 26 


Date of Death 


Saturn-Saturn 


Antar 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Saturn-Venus 


Antar 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


Saturn-Mars 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #6 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Saturn Mahadasha 06-03-2035 to 26-11-2053 


50y4m* 
Beginning Ending 


06-03-2035 25-08-2035 
25-08-2035 25-01-2036 
25-01-2036 28-03-2036 
28-03-2036 25-09-2036 
25-09-2036 18-11-2036 
18-11-2036 16-02-2037 
16-02-2037 20-04-2037 
20-04-2037 30-09-2037 
30-09-2037 21-02-2038 


57y0m 
Beginning Ending 


20-11-2041 29-05-2042 
29-05-2042 25-07-2042 
25-07-2042 28-10-2042 
28-10-2042 03-01-2043 
03-01-2043 23-06-2043 
23-06-2043 22-11-2043 
22-11-2043 20-05-2044 
20-05-2044 29-10-2044 
29-10-2044 03-01-2045 


62y8m 


Age : 50y 4m to 69y 0m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Saturn-Mercury 53y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 21-02-2038 08-07-2038 
Ketu 08-07-2038 03-09-2038 
Venus 03-09-2038 11-02-2039 
Sun 11-02-2039 01-04-2039 
01-04-2039 21-06-2039 
21-06-2039 16-08-2039 
16-08-2039 09-01-2040 
09-01-2040 17-05-2040 
17-05-2040 17-10-2040 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Saturn-Sun 60y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 03-01-2045 20-01-2045 


20-01-2045 18-02-2045 
18-02-2045 10-03-2045 
10-03-2045 30-04-2045 
30-04-2045 15-06-2045 
Saturn 15-06-2045 08-08-2045 
Mercury 08-08-2045 25-09-2045 
Ketu 25-09-2045 15-10-2045 
Venus =: 15-10-2045 11-12-2045 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Saturn-Rahu 63y9m 


Saturn-Ketu 55yl1m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 17-10-2040 09-11-2040 
Venus 09-11-2040 15-01-2041 
Sun 15-01-2041 04-02-2041 
04-02-2041 09-03-2041 
09-03-2041 01-04-2041 
01-04-2041 31-05-2041 
31-05-2041 23-07-2041 
23-07-2041 25-09-2041 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 25-09-2041 20-11-2041 


Saturn-Moon 6lylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


11-12-2045 28-01-2046 
28-01-2046 02-03-2046 
02-03-2046 26-05-2046 
26-05-2046 10-08-2046 
Saturn 10-08-2046 09-11-2046 
Mercury 09-11-2046 28-01-2047 
Ketu 28-01-2047 03-03-2047 
Venus 03-03-2047 06-06-2047 
Sun 06-06-2047 04-07-2047 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Saturn-Jupiter 66y6m 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


04-07-2047 27-07-2047 
27-07-2047 25-09-2047 
25-09-2047 18-11-2047 
18-11-2047 20-01-2048 
20-01-2048 16-03-2048 
16-03-2048 08-04-2048 
08-04-2048 14-06-2048 
14-06-2048 04-07-2048 
04-07-2048 06-08-2048 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


06-08-2048 07-01-2049 
07-01-2049 24-05-2049 
Saturn 24-05-2049 02-11-2049 
Mercury 02-11-2049 28-03-2050 
Ketu 28-03-2050 27-05-2050 
Venus 27-05-2050 14-11-2050 
Sun 14-11-2050 04-01-2051 
04-01-2051 30-03-2051 
30-03-2051 29-05-2051 


Moon 
Mars 


29-05-2051 28-09-2051 
Saturn 28-09-2051 19-02-2052 
Mercury 19-02-2052 27-06-2052 
Ketu 27-06-2052 20-08-2052 
Venus 20-08-2052 19-01-2053 
Sun 19-01-2053 05-03-2053 
05-03-2053 20-05-2053 
20-05-2053 12-07-2053 
12-07-2053 26-11-2053 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 ¢ 27 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Mercury Mahadasha 26-11-2053 to 29-08-2070 


Mercury-Mercury 69y0m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 26-11-2053 29-03-2054 
Ketu 29-03-2054 19-05-2054 
Venus 19-05-2054 10-10-2054 
Sun 10-10-2054 22-11-2054 
22-11-2054 03-02-2055 
03-02-2055 25-03-2055 
25-03-2055 02-08-2055 
02-08-2055 26-11-2055 
26-11-2055 11-04-2056 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury-Sun 75y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 18-01-2060 02-02-2060 
02-02-2060 28-02-2060 
28-02-2060 17-03-2060 
17-03-2060 02-05-2060 
02-05-2060 12-06-2060 
Saturn 12-06-2060 30-07-2060 
Mercury 30-07-2060 11-09-2060 
Ketu 11-09-2060 29-09-2060 
Venus 29-09-2060 19-11-2060 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mercury-Rahu 78y5m 


Age : 69y 0m to 85y 9m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mercury-Ketu Tly5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 11-04-2056 02-05-2056 
Venus 02-05-2056 01-07-2056 
Sun 01-07-2056 18-07-2056 
18-07-2056 17-08-2056 
17-08-2056 07-09-2056 
07-09-2056 30-10-2056 
30-10-2056 17-12-2056 
17-12-2056 12-02-2057 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 12-02-2057 03-04-2057 


Mercury-Moon 76y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


19-11-2060 01-01-2061 
01-01-2061 30-01-2061 
30-01-2061 17-04-2061 
17-04-2061 24-06-2061 
Saturn 24-06-2061 13-09-2061 
Mercury 13-09-2061 24-11-2061 
Ketu 24-11-2061 24-12-2061 
Venus 24-12-2061 19-03-2062 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 19-03-2062 13-04-2062 


Mercury-Jupiter 80yl1m 


Mercury-Venus 


Antar 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


Mercury-Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Mercury-Saturn 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #7 


72y5m 
Beginning Ending 


03-04-2057 20-09-2057 
20-09-2057 10-11-2057 
10-11-2057 03-02-2058 
03-02-2058 04-04-2058 
04-04-2058 04-09-2058 
04-09-2058 18-01-2059 
18-01-2059 28-06-2059 
28-06-2059 20-11-2059 
20-11-2059 18-01-2060 


77y5m 
Beginning Ending 


13-04-2062 04-05-2062 
04-05-2062 27-06-2062 
27-06-2062 13-08-2062 
13-08-2062 09-10-2062 
09-10-2062 28-11-2062 
28-11-2062 19-12-2062 
19-12-2062 17-02-2063 
17-02-2063 06-03-2063 
06-03-2063 05-04-2063 


83y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


05-04-2063 21-08-2063 
21-08-2063 21-12-2063 
Saturn 21-12-2063 15-05-2064 
Mercury 15-05-2064 22-09-2064 
Ketu 22-09-2064 14-11-2064 
Venus = 14-11-2064 16-04-2065 
Sun 16-04-2065 01-06-2065 
01-06-2065 17-08-2065 
17-08-2065 09-10-2065 


Moon 
Mars 


09-10-2065 26-01-2066 
Saturn 26-01-2066 04-06-2066 
Mercury 04-06-2066 28-09-2066 
Ketu 28-09-2066 14-11-2066 
Venus 14-11-2066 30-03-2067 
Sun 30-03-2067 10-05-2067 
10-05-2067 17-07-2067 
17-07-2067 03-09-2067 
03-09-2067 03-01-2068 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


03-01-2068 05-06-2068 
05-06-2068 20-10-2068 
20-10-2068 15-12-2068 
15-12-2068 26-05-2069 
26-05-2069 13-07-2069 
13-07-2069 02-10-2069 
02-10-2069 28-11-2069 
28-11-2069 22-04-2070 
22-04-2070 29-08-2070 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 28 


Date of Death Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #8 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Ketu) Mahadasha 29-08-2070 to 23-07-2077 
Age: 85y 9m to 92y 8m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Ketu-Ketu 85y9m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


29-08-2070 07-09-2070 
07-09-2070 01-10-2070 
01-10-2070 09-10-2070 
09-10-2070 21-10-2070 
21-10-2070 29-10-2070 
29-10-2070 20-11-2070 
20-11-2070 10-12-2070 
10-12-2070 02-01-2071 


Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 02-01-2071 23-01-2071 


Ketu-Moon 87y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


22-07-2072 09-08-2072 
09-08-2072 21-08-2072 
21-08-2072 21-09-2072 
21-09-2072 19-10-2072 
Saturn 19-10-2072 22-11-2072 
Mercury 22-11-2072 21-12-2072 
Ketu 21-12-2072 03-01-2073 
Venus 03-01-2073 07-02-2073 
07-02-2073 17-02-2073 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 


Ketu-Jupiter 89y8m 


Ketu-Venus 


Antar 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


Ketu-Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Ketu-Saturn 


86y2m 
Beginning Ending 


23-01-2071 03-04-2071 
03-04-2071 24-04-2071 
24-04-2071 29-05-2071 
29-05-2071 23-06-2071 
23-06-2071 25-08-2071 
25-08-2071 20-10-2071 
20-10-2071 25-12-2071 
25-12-2071 23-02-2072 
23-02-2072 18-03-2072 


88y3m 
Beginning Ending 


17-02-2073 26-02-2073 
26-02-2073 20-03-2073 
20-03-2073 08-04-2073 
08-04-2073 02-05-2073 
02-05-2073 23-05-2073 
23-05-2073 31-05-2073 
31-05-2073 25-06-2073 
25-06-2073 02-07-2073 
02-07-2073 14-07-2073 


90y7m 


Ketu-Sun 


Antar 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Ketu-Rahu 


Antar 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Ketu-Mercury 


87y4m 
Beginning Ending 


18-03-2072 24-03-2072 
24-03-2072 04-04-2072 
04-04-2072 11-04-2072 
11-04-2072 30-04-2072 
30-04-2072 17-05-2072 
17-05-2072 06-06-2072 
06-06-2072 24-06-2072 
24-06-2072 01-07-2072 
01-07-2072 22-07-2072 


88y8m 
Beginning Ending 


14-07-2073 09-09-2073 
09-09-2073 29-10-2073 
29-10-2073 28-12-2073 
28-12-2073 20-02-2074 
20-02-2074 14-03-2074 
14-03-2074 16-05-2074 
16-05-2074 04-06-2074 
04-06-2074 05-07-2074 
05-07-2074 27-07-2074 


91y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


27-07-2074 10-09-2074 
10-09-2074 02-11-2074 
02-11-2074 20-12-2074 
20-12-2074 08-01-2075 
08-01-2075 05-03-2075 
05-03-2075 22-03-2075 
22-03-2075 19-04-2075 
19-04-2075 09-05-2075 
09-05-2075 28-06-2075 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


28-06-2075 30-08-2075 
30-08-2075 26-10-2075 
26-10-2075 18-11-2075 
18-11-2075 24-01-2076 
24-01-2076 13-02-2076 
13-02-2076 17-03-2076 
17-03-2076 09-04-2076 
09-04-2076 08-06-2076 
08-06-2076 31-07-2076 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


31-07-2076 20-09-2076 
20-09-2076 11-10-2076 
11-10-2076 09-12-2076 
09-12-2076 27-12-2076 
27-12-2076 26-01-2077 
26-01-2077 16-02-2077 
16-02-2077 10-04-2077 
10-04-2077 28-05-2077 
28-05-2077 23-07-2077 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 29 


Date of Death 


Venus-Venus 


Antar 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


Venus -Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Venus -Saturn 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #9 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Venus Mahadasha 23-07-2077 to 09-04-2097 
Age : 92y 8m to 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


92y 8m* 
Beginning Ending 


23-07-2077 08-02-2078 
08-02-2078 09-04-2078 
09-04-2078 18-07-2078 
18-07-2078 26-09-2078 
26-09-2078 25-03-2079 
25-03-2079 01-09-2079 
01-09-2079 09-03-2080 
09-03-2080 26-08-2080 
26-08-2080 04-11-2080 


98y7m 
Beginning Ending 


22-06-2083 17-07-2083 
17-07-2083 18-09-2083 
18-09-2083 13-11-2083 
13-11-2083 18-01-2084 
18-01-2084 18-03-2084 
18-03-2084 11-04-2084 
11-04-2084 20-06-2084 
20-06-2084 11-07-2084 
11-07-2084 15-08-2084 


105y4m 


Venus-Sun 


Antar 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Venus-Rahu 


Antar 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Venus-Mercury 


112y 5m 


96y0m 
Beginning Ending 


04-11-2080 22-11-2080 
22-11-2080 22-12-2080 
22-12-2080 12-01-2081 
12-01-2081 07-03-2081 
07-03-2081 24-04-2081 
24-04-2081 20-06-2081 
20-06-2081 10-08-2081 
10-08-2081 31-08-2081 
31-08-2081 30-10-2081 


99y9m 
Beginning Ending 


15-08-2084 24-01-2085 
24-01-2085 17-06-2085 
17-06-2085 05-12-2085 
05-12-2085 07-05-2086 
07-05-2086 09-07-2086 
09-07-2086 05-01-2087 
05-01-2087 28-02-2087 
28-02-2087 29-05-2087 
29-05-2087 31-07-2087 


108y5m 


Venus-Moon 96yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


30-10-2081 19-12-2081 
19-12-2081 23-01-2082 
23-01-2082 23-04-2082 
23-04-2082 12-07-2082 
12-07-2082 15-10-2082 
15-10-2082 08-01-2083 
08-01-2083 12-02-2083 
12-02-2083 23-05-2083 
23-05-2083 22-06-2083 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 


Venus -Jupiter 102y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


31-07-2087 06-12-2087 
Saturn 06-12-2087 06-05-2088 
Mercury 06-05-2088 19-09-2088 
Ketu 19-09-2088 14-11-2088 
Venus =: 14-11-2088 23-04-2089 
23-04-2089 10-06-2089 
10-06-2089 29-08-2089 
29-08-2089 24-10-2089 
24-10-2089 17-03-2090 


Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Venus-Ketu I1ly3m 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


17-03-2090 14-09-2090 
14-09-2090 22-02-2091 
22-02-2091 30-04-2091 
30-04-2091 06-11-2091 
06-11-2091 02-01-2092 
02-01-2092 06-04-2092 
06-04-2092 11-06-2092 
11-06-2092 29-11-2092 
29-11-2092 30-04-2093 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


30-04-2093 22-09-2093 
22-09-2093 20-11-2093 
20-11-2093 09-05-2094 
09-05-2094 29-06-2094 
29-06-2094 22-09-2094 
22-09-2094 21-11-2094 
21-11-2094 23-04-2095 
23-04-2095 06-09-2095 
06-09-2095 14-02-2096 


Ketu 
Venus 


14-02-2096 10-03-2096 
10-03-2096 19-05-2096 
19-05-2096 09-06-2096 
09-06-2096 14-07-2096 
14-07-2096 07-08-2096 
07-08-2096 09-10-2096 
09-10-2096 04-12-2096 
Saturn 04-12-2096 09-02-2097 
Mercury 09-02-2097 09-04-2097 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 30 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #1 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rah-Ket-Rah 


Rah-Ket-Jup 


Rah-Ket-Sat 


Rah-Ket-Mer 


12-06-2012 
07-08-2012 


12-06-2012 04:39 
20-06-2012 16:46 
28-06-2012 06:12 
07-07-2012 05:40 
15-07-2012 06:27 
18-07-2012 13:49 
28-07-2012 00:37 
30-07-2012 20:40 
04-08-2012 14:04 


Beginning 
Ending 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 


Rah-Ven-Ven 


18-01-2013 
17-07-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


07-08-2012 
27-09-2012 


07-08-2012 21:27 
14-08-2012 14:43 
22-08-2012 14:15 
29-08-2012 17:36 
01-09-2012 16:10 
10-09-2012 01:46 
12-09-2012 14:15 
16-09-2012 19:03 
19-09-2012 17:36 


Beginning 
Ending 
Jup 
Sat 


Rah-Ven-Sun 


17-07-2013 
09-09-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


27-09-2012 
26-11-2012 


27-09-2012 07:03 
06-10-2012 18:28 
15-10-2012 05:58 
18-10-2012 17:45 
28-10-2012 17:09 
31-10-2012 16:58 
05-11-2012 16:40 
09-11-2012 04:28 
18-11-2012 03:55 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sat 


Rah-Ven-Mon 


09-09-2013 
08-12-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


26-11-2012 
18-01-2013 


26-11-2012 03:27 
03-12-2012 17:31 
06-12-2012 20:29 
15-12-2012 18:41 
18-12-2012 10:57 
22-12-2012 22:03 
26-12-2012 01:01 
03-01-2013 01:48 
10-01-2013 05:09 


Beginning 
Ending 


Rah-Ven-Mar 


08-12-2013 
09-02-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


18-01-2013 16:39 
17-02-2013 16:39 
26-02-2013 16:39 
13-03-2013 16:39 
24-03-2013 04:39 
20-04-2013 04:39 
14-05-2013 04:39 
11-06-2013 16:39 
07-07-2013 04:39 


17-07-2013 16:39 
20-07-2013 09:27 
24-07-2013 21:27 
28-07-2013 01:03 
05-08-2013 03:27 
12-08-2013 08:15 
20-08-2013 21:27 
28-08-2013 13:03 
31-08-2013 16:39 


Sun 
Mon 
Mar 


Jup 


Mon 09-09-2013 16:39 
17-09-2013 04:39 
22-09-2013 10:39 
05-10-2013 22:39 
17-10-2013 22:39 
01-11-2013 04:39 
13-11-2013 22:39 
19-11-2013 04:39 
04-12-2013 04:39 


Mar = 08-12-2013 16:39 
12-12-2013 08:51 
21-12-2013 19:39 
30-12-2013 05:15 
09-01-2014 04:39 
18-01-2014 02:51 
21-01-2014 19:03 
01-02-2014 07:03 
04-02-2014 10:39 


Jup 


Rah-Ven-Rah 


Rah-Ven-Jup 


Rah-Ven-Sat 


Rah-Ven-Mer 


09-02-2014 
21-07-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


21-07-2014 
12-12-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


12-12-2014 
01-06-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


01-06-2015 
01-11-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


Rah 
Jup 


09-02-2014 16:39 
05-03-2014 23:51 
27-03-2014 14:15 
22-04-2014 05:51 
15-05-2014 04:39 
24-05-2014 15:27 
20-06-2014 15:27 
28-06-2014 17:51 
12-07-2014 05:51 


21-07-2014 16:39 
09-08-2014 21:27 
01-09-2014 16:39 
22-09-2014 02:15 
30-09-2014 11:51 
24-10-2014 11:51 
31-10-2014 16:39 
12-11-2014 16:39 
21-11-2014 02:15 


Jup 
Sat 
Mer 


12-12-2014 16:39 
08-01-2015 18:27 
01-02-2015 23:51 
11-02-2015 23:15 
12-03-2015 11:15 
21-03-2015 00:27 
04-04-2015 06:27 
14-04-2015 05:51 
09-05-2015 21:27 


01-06-2015 16:39 
23-06-2015 08:51 
02-07-2015 07:03 
27-07-2015 19:03 
04-08-2015 10:39 
17-08-2015 04:39 
26-08-2015 02:51 
18-09-2015 01:39 
08-10-2015 11:15 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 ¢ 31 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #2 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rah-Ven-Ket 


Rah-Sun-Sun 


Rah-Sun-Mon 


Rah-Sun-Mar 


01-11-2015 
03-01-2016 


01-11-2015 16:39 
05-11-2015 08:51 
15-11-2015 20:51 
19-11-2015 00:27 
24-11-2015 06:27 
27-11-2015 22:39 
07-12-2015 09:27 
15-12-2015 19:03 
25-12-2015 18:27 


Beginning 
Ending 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 


Rah-Sun-Rah 


05-03-2016 
23-04-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


03-01-2016 
19-01-2016 


03-01-2016 16:39 
04-01-2016 12:05 
05-01-2016 20:29 
06-01-2016 19:10 
09-01-2016 05:29 
11-01-2016 09:19 
13-01-2016 22:53 
16-01-2016 05:58 
17-01-2016 04:39 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 


Rah-Sun-Jup 


23-04-2016 
05-06-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


19-01-2016 
15-02-2016 


19-01-2016 21:27 
22-01-2016 03:27 
23-01-2016 17:15 
27-01-2016 18:27 
31-01-2016 08:51 
04-02-2016 15:27 
08-02-2016 11:15 
10-02-2016 01:03 
14-02-2016 13:03 


Beginning 
Ending 
Mon 


Rah-Sun-Sat 


05-06-2016 
26-07-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


15-02-2016 
05-03-2016 


15-02-2016 21:27 
16-02-2016 23:54 
19-02-2016 19:57 
22-02-2016 08:25 
25-02-2016 08:15 
28-02-2016 00:30 
29-02-2016 02:58 
03-03-2016 06:34 
04-03-2016 05:15 


Beginning 
Ending 
Mar 


Jup 


Rah-Sun-Mer 


26-07-2016 
10-09-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


Rah 
Jup 


05-03-2016 19:03 
13-03-2016 02:00 
19-03-2016 13:31 
27-03-2016 06:12 
03-04-2016 03:27 
05-04-2016 23:29 
14-04-2016 01:53 
16-04-2016 12:12 
20-04-2016 13:24 


23-04-2016 09:27 
29-04-2016 03:41 
05-05-2016 23:51 
12-05-2016 02:43 
14-05-2016 15:12 
21-05-2016 20:00 
23-05-2016 23:51 
27-05-2016 14:15 
30-05-2016 02:43 


Jup 
Sat 


05-06-2016 14:15 
13-06-2016 17:11 
20-06-2016 23:36 
23-06-2016 23:25 
02-07-2016 12:37 
05-07-2016 02:11 
09-07-2016 08:47 
12-07-2016 08:36 
20-07-2016 01:17 


Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


26-07-2016 21:27 
02-08-2016 09:30 
05-08-2016 01:46 
12-08-2016 17:22 
15-08-2016 00:27 
18-08-2016 20:15 
21-08-2016 12:30 
28-08-2016 09:45 
03-09-2016 12:37 


Rah-Sun-Ket 


Rah-Sun-Ven 


Rah-Mon-Mon 


Rah-Mon-Mar 


10-09-2016 
29-09-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


29-09-2016 
22-11-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


22-11-2016 
06-01-2017 


Beginning 
Ending 


06-01-2017 
07-02-2017 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


10-09-2016 19:03 
11-09-2016 21:30 
15-09-2016 01:06 
15-09-2016 23:47 
17-09-2016 13:35 
18-09-2016 16:03 
21-09-2016 12:05 
24-09-2016 00:34 
27-09-2016 00:23 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


29-09-2016 16:39 
08-10-2016 16:39 
11-10-2016 09:27 
15-10-2016 21:27 
19-10-2016 01:03 
27-10-2016 03:27 
03-11-2016 08:15 
11-11-2016 21:27 
19-11-2016 13:03 


22-11-2016 16:39 
26-11-2016 10:39 
29-11-2016 01:39 
05-12-2016 19:39 
11-12-2016 19:39 
18-12-2016 22:39 
25-12-2016 07:39 
27-12-2016 22:39 
04-01-2017 10:39 


Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 


Mar = 06-01-2017 16:39 
08-01-2017 12:45 
13-01-2017 06:09 
17-01-2017 10:57 
22-01-2017 10:39 
26-01-2017 21:45 
28-01-2017 17:51 
02-02-2017 23:51 
04-02-2017 13:39 


Jup 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 * 32 


Date of Death 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #3 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rah-Mon-Rah 


Rah-Mon-Jup 


Rah-Mon-Sat 


Rah-Mon-Mer 


07-02-2017 
29-04-2017 


07-02-2017 04:39 
19-02-2017 08:15 
02-03-2017 03:27 
14-03-2017 23:15 
26-03-2017 10:39 
31-03-2017 04:03 
13-04-2017 16:03 
17-04-2017 17:15 
24-04-2017 11:15 


Beginning 
Ending 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 


Rah-Mon-Ket 


19-12-2017 
19-01-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


29-04-2017 
10-07-2017 


29-04-2017 04:39 
08-05-2017 19:03 
20-05-2017 04:39 
30-05-2017 09:27 
03-06-2017 14:15 
15-06-2017 14:15 
19-06-2017 04:39 
25-06-2017 04:39 
29-06-2017 09:27 


Beginning 
Ending 


Jup 
Sat 


Rah-Mon-Ven 


19-01-2018 
19-04-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


10-07-2017 
03-10-2017 


10-07-2017 04:39 
23-07-2017 17:33 
04-08-2017 20:15 
09-08-2017 19:57 
24-08-2017 01:57 
28-08-2017 08:33 
04-09-2017 11:33 
09-09-2017 11:15 
22-09-2017 07:03 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sat 


Rah-Mon-Sun 


19-04-2018 
16-05-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


03-10-2017 
19-12-2017 


03-10-2017 16:39 
14-10-2017 12:45 
18-10-2017 23:51 
31-10-2017 17:51 
04-11-2017 13:39 
10-11-2017 22:39 
15-11-2017 09:45 
26-11-2017 21:09 
07-12-2017 01:57 


Beginning 
Ending 


Rah-Mar-Mar 


16-05-2018 
07-06-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


19-12-2017 04:39 
21-12-2017 00:45 
26-12-2017 06:45 
27-12-2017 20:33 
30-12-2017 11:33 
01-01-2018 07:39 
06-01-2018 01:03 
10-01-2018 05:51 
15-01-2018 05:33 


Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 


19-01-2018 16:39 
03-02-2018 16:39 
08-02-2018 04:39 
15-02-2018 16:39 
20-02-2018 22:39 
06-03-2018 10:39 
18-03-2018 10:39 
01-04-2018 16:39 
14-04-2018 10:39 


19-04-2018 16:39 
21-04-2018 01:03 
23-04-2018 07:03 
24-04-2018 20:51 
28-04-2018 22:03 
02-05-2018 12:27 
06-05-2018 19:03 
10-05-2018 14:51 
12-05-2018 04:39 


Sun 
Mon 


Mar = 16-05-2018 16:39 
17-05-2018 23:31 
21-05-2018 06:54 
24-05-2018 05:27 
27-05-2018 17:15 
30-05-2018 20:13 
01-06-2018 03:05 
04-06-2018 19:17 
05-06-2018 21:45 


Jup 


Rah-Mar-Rah 


Rah-Mar-Jup 


Rah-Mar-Sat 


Rah-Mar-Mer 


07-06-2018 
03-08-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


03-08-2018 
22-09-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


22-09-2018 
21-11-2018 


Beginning 
Ending 


21-11-2018 
14-01-2019 


Beginning 
Ending 


Rah 
Jup 


07-06-2018 17:51 
16-06-2018 05:58 
23-06-2018 19:24 
02-07-2018 18:52 
10-07-2018 19:39 
14-07-2018 03:01 
23-07-2018 13:49 
26-07-2018 09:52 
31-07-2018 03:16 


03-08-2018 10:39 
10-08-2018 03:55 
18-08-2018 03:27 
25-08-2018 06:48 
28-08-2018 05:22 
05-09-2018 14:58 
08-09-2018 03:27 
12-09-2018 08:15 
15-09-2018 06:48 


Jup 
Sat 
Mer 


22-09-2018 20:15 
02-10-2018 07:40 
10-10-2018 19:10 
14-10-2018 06:57 
24-10-2018 06:21 
27-10-2018 06:10 
01-11-2018 05:52 
04-11-2018 17:40 
13-11-2018 17:07 


21-11-2018 16:39 
29-11-2018 06:43 
02-12-2018 09:41 
11-12-2018 07:53 
14-12-2018 00:09 
18-12-2018 11:15 
21-12-2018 14:13 
29-12-2018 15:00 
05-01-2019 18:21 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 33 


Date of Death 


Ashtottari MD and AD 


Ashtottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Saturn (10y) 
From 0 yrs. to 3ylm 


Jupiter (19y) 
From 3ylmto 2ly9m 


: Saturn 3y 1m Id 
: Sa-Mo-Sa-Ve-Ma 


Rahu (12y) 
From 2ly9m to 33y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 

Jupiter 

Rahu 

Venus - 
Sun - 
Moon 31-10-1984 - 20-08-1985 
Mars 20-08-1985 - 14-05-1986 
Mercuryl 4-05-1986 - 02-12-1987 


Jupiter 02-12-1987 - 19-03-1991 
Rahu = 19-03-1991 - 17-04-1993 
Venus 17-04-1993 - 07-12-1996 
Sun = 07-12-1996 - 22-12-1997 
Moon 22-12-1997 - 29-07-2000 
Mars 29-07-2000 - 18-12-2001 
Mercury1 8-12-2001 - 28-11-2004 
Saturn 28-11-2004 - 24-08-2006 


Rahu 24-08-2006 - 17-12-2007 
Venus 17-12-2007 - 05-04-2010 
Sun 05-04-2010 - 01-12-2010 
Moon 01-12-2010 - 23-07-2012 
Mars 23-07-2012 - 08-06-2013 
Mercury08-06-2013 - 19-04-2015 
Saturn 19-04-2015 - 23-05-2016 
Jupiter 23-05-2016 - 22-06-2018 


Venus (21y) 
From 33y7m to 54y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Venus 22-06-2018 - 01-07-2022 


Sun 01-07-2022 - 25-08-2023 
Moon 25-08-2023 - 10-07-2026 
Mars 10-07-2026 - 21-01-2028 
Mercury2 1-01-2028 - 25-04-2031 
Saturn 25-04-2031 - 25-03-2033 
Jupiter 25-03-2033 - 14-11-2036 


Rahu = 14-11-2036 - 04-03-2039 


Sun (6y) 
From 54y4m to 60y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 04-03-2039 - 02-07-2039 


Moon 02-07-2039 - 27-04-2040 
Mars 27-04-2040 - 04-10-2040 
Mercury04-10-2040 - 09-09-2041 
Saturn 09-09-2041 - 28-03-2042 
Jupiter 28-03-2042 - 12-04-2043 
Rahu = 12-04-2043 - 08-12-2043 


Venus 08-12-2043 - 31-01-2045 


Moon (15y) 
From 60y3m to 75y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 31-01-2045 - 20-02-2047 
Mars 20-02-2047 - 26-03-2048 
Mercury26-03-2048 - 24-07-2050 
Saturn 24-07-2050 - 06-12-2051 
Jupiter 06-12-2051 - 13-07-2054 
Rahu = 13-07-2054 - 04-03-2056 
Venus 04-03-2056 - 18-01-2059 
Sun 18-01-2059 - 14-11-2059 


Mars (8y) 
From 75y0m to 82yl1m 


Mercury (17y) 
From 82y11m to 99y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 14-11-2059 - 14-06-2060 
Mercuryl 4-06-2060 - 10-09-2061 
Saturn 10-09-2061 - 04-06-2062 
Jupiter 04-06-2062 - 24-10-2063 
Rahu 24-10-2063 - 08-09-2064 
Venus 08-09-2064 - 22-03-2066 
Sun 22-03-2066 - 29-08-2066 
Moon 29-08-2066 - 03-10-2067 


Mercury03-10-2067 - 23-05-2070 
Saturn 23-05-2070 - 11-12-2071 
Jupiter 11-12-2071 - 21-11-2074 
Rahu = 21-11-2074 - 01-10-2076 
Venus (1-10-2076 - 04-01-2080 
Sun 04-01-2080 - 09-12-2080 
Moon 09-12-2080 - 08-04-2083 
Mars 08-04-2083 - 05-07-2084 


*Condition of Applicability of Ashtottari Dasha : 


Except in Lagna, Rahu in Kendra or Trikona from Lagna lord.. Birth during day-time in Krishna Paksha or night-time in Shukla Paksha. 


In your horoscope Ashtottari dasha doesn't apply. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 34 


Date of Death 


Sat-Mon 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #1 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sat-Mar 


Sat-Mer 


Jup-Jup 


Jup-Rah 


Begin 31-10-1984 
20-08-1985 


Begin 20-08-1985 
14-05-1986 


Begin 14-05-1986 
02-12-1987 


Begin 02-12-1987 
End 19-03-1991 


Begin 19-03-1991 
End _ 17-04-1993 


31-10-1984 
25-11-1984 
21-02-1985 
17-04-1985 
23-07-1985 


20-08-1985 
09-09-1985 
21-10-1985 
15-11-1985 
01-01-1986 
30-01-1986 
23-03-1986 
07-04-1986 


14-05-1986 
11-08-1986 
03-10-1986 
10-01-1987 
14-03-1987 
02-07-1987 
03-08-1987 
21-10-1987 


Jup =: 02-12-1987 
30-06-1988 
11-11-1988 
03-07-1989 
08-09-1989 
22-02-1990 
22-05-1990 
28-11-1990 


19-03-1991 
11-06-1991 
06-11-1991 
18-12-1991 
02-04-1992 
28-05-1992 
25-09-1992 
04-12-1992 


Jup-Ven 


Jup-Sun 


Jup-Mon 


Jup-Mar 


Jup-Mer 


Begin 17-04-1993 
07-12-1996 


17-04-1993 
01-01-1994 
15-03-1994 
16-09-1994 
24-12-1994 
21-07-1995 
21-11-1995 
12-07-1996 


Begin 07-12-1996 
22-12-1997 


07-12-1996 
28-12-1996 
19-02-1997 
19-03-1997 
18-05-1997 
22-06-1997 
28-08-1997 
09-10-1997 


Begin 22-12-1997 
29-07-2000 


22-12-1997 
03-05-1998 
12-07-1998 
09-12-1998 
07-03-1999 
21-08-1999 
04-12-1999 
06-06-2000 


Begin 29-07-2000 
18-12-2001 


29-07-2000 
04-09-2000 
23-11-2000 
09-01-2001 
08-04-2001 
04-06-2001 
10-09-2001 
08-10-2001 


Begin 18-12-2001 
28-11-2004 


18-12-2001 
05-06-2002 
13-09-2002 
21-03-2003 
19-07-2003 
13-02-2004 
13-04-2004 
10-09-2004 


Jup-Sat 


Rah-Rah 


Rah-Ven 


Rah-Sun 


Rah-Mon 


Begin 28-11-2004 
24-08-2006 


28-11-2004 
26-01-2005 
17-05-2005 
27-07-2005 
27-11-2005 
01-01-2006 
30-03-2006 
16-05-2006 


Begin 24-08-2006 
17-12-2007 


24-08-2006 
16-10-2006 
17-01-2007 
13-02-2007 
21-04-2007 
26-05-2007 
10-08-2007 
23-09-2007 


Begin 17-12-2007 
05-04-2010 


17-12-2007 
28-05-2008 
14-07-2008 
07-11-2008 
08-01-2009 
21-05-2009 
06-08-2009 
01-01-2010 


Begin 05-04-2010 
01-12-2010 


05-04-2010 
18-04-2010 
21-05-2010 
08-06-2010 
16-07-2010 
07-08-2010 
18-09-2010 
15-10-2010 


Begin 01-12-2010 
23-07-2012 


01-12-2010 
22-02-2011 
07-04-2011 
11-07-2011 
04-09-2011 
19-12-2011 
24-02-2012 
19-06-2012 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 35 


Date of Death 


Rah-Mar 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #2 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rah-Sat 


Rah-Mer 


Rah-Jup 


Ven-Ven 


Begin 23-07-2012 
08-06-2013 


Begin 08-06-2013 
19-04-2015 


Begin 19-04-2015 


End 


23-05-2016 


Begin 23-05-2016 
End 22-06-2018 


Begin 22-06-2018 
01-07-2022 


23-07-2012 
15-08-2012 
05-10-2012 
03-11-2012 
30-12-2012 
03-02-2013 
06-04-2013 
24-04-2013 


08-06-2013 
23-09-2013 
25-11-2013 
24-03-2014 
08-06-2014 
18-10-2014 
25-11-2014 
27-02-2015 


Sat 
Jup 
Rah 
Ven 
Sun 


19-04-2015 
26-05-2015 
04-08-2015 
17-09-2015 
04-12-2015 
26-12-2015 
20-02-2016 
21-03-2016 


Jup 23-05-2016 
03-10-2016 
27-12-2016 
24-05-2017 
05-07-2017 
18-10-2017 
14-12-2017 
12-04-2018 


22-06-2018 
03-04-2019 
24-06-2019 
14-01-2020 
02-05-2020 
20-12-2020 
05-05-2021 
18-01-2022 


Ven-Sun 


Ven-Mon 


Ven-Mar 


Ven-Mer 


Ven -Sat 


Begin 01-07-2022 
25-08-2023 


01-07-2022 
24-07-2022 
20-09-2022 
21-10-2022 
26-12-2022 
03-02-2023 
18-04-2023 
04-06-2023 


Begin 25-08-2023 
10-07-2026 


25-08-2023 
17-01-2024 
04-04-2024 
16-09-2024 
23-12-2024 
25-06-2025 
20-10-2025 
12-05-2026 


Begin 10-07-2026 


21-01-2028 


10-07-2026 
20-08-2026 
16-11-2026 
07-01-2027 
16-04-2027 
17-06-2027 
04-10-2027 
04-11-2027 


Begin 21-01-2028 
25-04-2031 


21-01-2028 
26-07-2028 
13-11-2028 
10-06-2029 
21-10-2029 
09-06-2030 
14-08-2030 
26-01-2031 


Begin 25-04-2031 
25-03-2033 


25-04-2031 
28-06-2031 
30-10-2031 
15-01-2032 
30-05-2032 
08-07-2032 
14-10-2032 
04-12-2032 


Ven-Jup 


Ven-Rah 


Sun-Sun 


Sun-Mon 


Sun-Mar 


Begin 25-03-2033 
14-11-2036 


25-03-2033 
14-11-2033 
10-04-2034 
25-12-2034 
09-03-2035 
10-09-2035 
17-12-2035 
13-07-2036 


Begin 14-11-2036 
04-03-2039 


14-11-2036 
15-02-2037 
28-07-2037 
13-09-2037 
08-01-2038 
11-03-2038 
21-07-2038 
07-10-2038 


Begin 04-03-2039 


02-07-2039 


04-03-2039 
10-03-2039 
27-03-2039 
05-04-2039 
24-04-2039 
05-05-2039 
26-05-2039 
08-06-2039 


Begin 02-07-2039 
27-04-2040 


02-07-2039 
12-08-2039 
03-09-2039 
21-10-2039 
17-11-2039 
09-01-2040 
12-02-2040 
10-04-2040 


Begin 27-04-2040 
04-10-2040 


27-04-2040 
08-05-2040 
03-06-2040 
17-06-2040 
16-07-2040 
02-08-2040 
02-09-2040 
11-09-2040 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 36 


Date of Death 


Sun-Mer 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #3 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sun-Sat 


Sun-Jup 


Sun-Rah 


Sun-Ven 


Begin 04-10-2040 
09-09-2041 


Begin 09-09-2041 


End 


28-03-2042 


Begin 28-03-2042 
End = 12-04-2043 


Begin 12-04-2043 
End = 08-12-2043 


Begin 08-12-2043 
31-01-2045 


04-10-2040 
26-11-2040 
28-12-2040 
25-02-2041 
04-04-2041 
09-06-2041 
28-06-2041 
14-08-2041 


Sat 
Jup 
Rah 
Ven 
Sun 


09-09-2041 
27-09-2041 
01-11-2041 
24-11-2041 
01-01-2042 
13-01-2042 
09-02-2042 
24-02-2042 


Jup 28-03-2042 
02-06-2042 
15-07-2042 
27-09-2042 
18-10-2042 
09-12-2042 
07-01-2043 
07-03-2043 


12-04-2043 
08-05-2043 
24-06-2043 
07-07-2043 
10-08-2043 
27-08-2043 
04-10-2043 
26-10-2043 


08-12-2043 
27-02-2044 
22-03-2044 
19-05-2044 
19-06-2044 
24-08-2044 
02-10-2044 
15-12-2044 


Mon-Mon 


Mon-Mar 


Mon-Mer 


Mon-Sat 


Mon-Jup 


Begin 31-01-2045 
20-02-2047 


31-01-2045 
15-05-2045 
09-07-2045 
04-11-2045 
13-01-2046 
25-05-2046 
16-08-2046 
09-01-2047 


Begin 20-02-2047 


26-03-2048 


20-02-2047 
21-03-2047 
23-05-2047 
29-06-2047 
08-09-2047 
22-10-2047 
08-01-2048 
30-01-2048 


Begin 26-03-2048 
24-07-2050 


26-03-2048 
06-08-2048 
24-10-2048 
23-03-2049 
25-06-2049 
07-12-2049 
24-01-2050 
22-05-2050 


Begin 24-07-2050 
06-12-2051 


24-07-2050 
08-09-2050 
05-12-2050 
29-01-2051 
07-05-2051 
03-06-2051 
12-08-2051 
18-09-2051 


Begin 06-12-2051 
13-07-2054 


06-12-2051 
21-05-2052 
03-09-2052 
07-03-2053 
29-04-2053 
08-09-2053 
17-11-2053 
16-04-2054 


Mon-Rah 


Mon-Ven 


Mon-Sun 


Mar-Mar 


Mar-Mer 


Begin 13-07-2054 
04-03-2056 


13-07-2054 
17-09-2054 
12-01-2055 
14-02-2055 
09-05-2055 
22-06-2055 
24-09-2055 
19-11-2055 


Begin 04-03-2056 


18-01-2059 


04-03-2056 
24-09-2056 
21-11-2056 
16-04-2057 
03-07-2057 
15-12-2057 
22-03-2058 
23-09-2058 


Begin 18-01-2059 
14-11-2059 


18-01-2059 
03-02-2059 
17-03-2059 
08-04-2059 
25-05-2059 
22-06-2059 
14-08-2059 
16-09-2059 


Begin 14-11-2059 
14-06-2060 


14-11-2059 
29-11-2059 
02-01-2060 
22-01-2060 
28-02-2060 
23-03-2060 
03-05-2060 
15-05-2060 


Begin 14-06-2060 
10-09-2061 


14-06-2060 
24-08-2060 
05-10-2060 
24-12-2060 
12-02-2061 
12-05-2061 
06-06-2061 
08-08-2061 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 ¢ 37 


Date of Death 


Mar-Sat 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #4 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mar-Jup 


Mar-Rah 


Mar-Ven 


Mar-Sun 


Begin 10-09-2061 


End 


04-06-2062 


Begin 04-06-2062 
End 24-10-2063 


Begin 24-10-2063 
End 08-09-2064 


Begin 08-09-2064 
22-03-2066 


Begin 22-03-2066 
End 29-08-2066 


Sat 
Jup 
Rah 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


Mer 


10-09-2061 
05-10-2061 
21-11-2061 
21-12-2061 
10-02-2062 
25-02-2062 
03-04-2062 
23-04-2062 


Jup 04-06-2062 
01-09-2062 
27-10-2062 
03-02-2063 
03-03-2063 
12-05-2063 
19-06-2063 
07-09-2063 


Rah = 24-10-2063 
28-11-2063 
29-01-2064 
16-02-2064 
01-04-2064 
24-04-2064 
14-06-2064 
13-07-2064 


08-09-2064 
25-12-2064 
26-01-2065 
13-04-2065 
25-05-2065 
21-08-2065 
12-10-2065 
18-01-2066 


Sun 22-03-2066 
Mon 30-03-2066 
22-04-2066 
04-05-2066 
29-05-2066 
13-06-2066 
11-07-2066 
28-07-2066 


Mar-Mon 


Mer-Mer 


Mer-Sat 


Mer-Jup 


Mer-Rah 


Begin 29-08-2066 


03-10-2067 


29-08-2066 
23-10-2066 
22-11-2066 
24-01-2067 
02-03-2067 
11-05-2067 
25-06-2067 
10-09-2067 


Begin 03-10-2067 
23-05-2070 


03-10-2067 
02-03-2068 
30-05-2068 
16-11-2068 
03-03-2069 
06-09-2069 
30-10-2069 
13-03-2070 


Begin 23-05-2070 
11-12-2071 


23-05-2070 
14-07-2070 
22-10-2070 
24-12-2070 
13-04-2071 
15-05-2071 
01-08-2071 
12-09-2071 


Begin 11-12-2071 
21-11-2074 


11-12-2071 
17-06-2072 
15-10-2072 
12-05-2073 
11-07-2073 
07-12-2073 
25-02-2074 
14-08-2074 


Begin 21-11-2074 
01-10-2076 


21-11-2074 
05-02-2075 
17-06-2075 
25-07-2075 
27-10-2075 
17-12-2075 
02-04-2076 
04-06-2076 


Mer-Ven 


Mer-Sun> 


Mer-Mon 


Mer-Mar 


Sat-Sat 


Begin 01-10-2076 


04-01-2080 


01-10-2076 
21-05-2077 
26-07-2077 
07-01-2078 
05-04-2078 
10-10-2078 
28-01-2079 
25-08-2079 


Begin 04-01-2080 
09-12-2080 


04-01-2080 
23-01-2080 
10-03-2080 
05-04-2080 
28-05-2080 
29-06-2080 
27-08-2080 
04-10-2080 


Begin 09-12-2080 
08-04-2083 


09-12-2080 
06-04-2081 
08-06-2081 
20-10-2081 
07-01-2082 
05-06-2082 
08-09-2082 
20-02-2083 


Begin 08-04-2083 
05-07-2084 


08-04-2083 
12-05-2083 
22-07-2083 
02-09-2083 
21-11-2083 
10-01-2084 
07-04-2084 
03-05-2084 


Begin 05-07-2084 
03-06-2085 


05-07-2084 
04-08-2084 
02-10-2084 
08-11-2084 
12-01-2085 
30-01-2085 
18-03-2085 
11-04-2085 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 38 


Date of Death 


Yogini Dasha - First Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Sankata (8y) 
From 0 yrs. to Oy 1m 


(First Cycle) 


Mangala (ly) 
From 0y Imto ly lm 


: Sankata Oy 1m 7d 
: Sankata-Sankata 


Pingala (2y) 
From ly lmto 3y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sank Ra 
Mang Mo 
Ping Su 
Dhan Ju 
Bhra Ma 
Bhad Me 
Ulka Sa 
Sidh Ve 31-10-1984 08-12-1984 


Mang Mo 08-12-1984 18-12-1984 
Ping Su 18-12-1984 07-01-1985 
Dhan Ju 07-01-1985 06-02-1985 
Bhra Ma 06-02-1985 18-03-1985 
Bhad Me 18-03-1985 07-05-1985 
Ulka Sa 07-05-1985 06-07-1985 
Sidh Ve 06-07-1985 14-09-1985 
Sank Ra 14-09-1985 03-12-1985 


Ping Su 03-12-1985 12-01-1986 
Dhan Ju 12-01-1986 13-03-1986 
Bhra Ma 13-03-1986 01-06-1986 
Bhad Me 01-06-1986 09-09-1986 
Ulka Sa 09-09-1986 07-01-1987 
Sidh Ve 07-01-1987 27-05-1987 
Sank Ra 27-05-1987 03-11-1987 
Mang Mo 03-11-1987 23-11-1987 


Dhanya (3y) 
From 3y 0m to 6y 0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Dhan Ju 23-11-1987 21-02-1988 


Bhra Ma 21-02-1988 20-06-1988 
Bhad Me 20-06-1988 17-11-1988 
Ulka Sa 17-11-1988 16-05-1989 
Sidh Ve 16-05-1989 12-12-1989 
Sank Ra 12-12-1989 09-08-1990 
Mang Mo 09-08-1990 08-09-1990 


Ping Su 08-09-1990 07-11-1990 


Ulka (6y) 


Bhramari (4y) 


From 6y0mto 9y 11m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Bhra Ma 07-11-1990 16-04-1991 


Bhad Me 16-04-1991 02-11-1991 
Ulka Sa 02-11-1991 29-06-1992 
Sidh Ve 29-06-1992 05-04-1993 
Sank Ra 05-04-1993 19-02-1994 
Mang Mo 19-02-1994 31-03-1994 
Ping Su 31-03-1994 19-06-1994 
Dhan Ju 19-06-1994 17-10-1994 


Siddha (7y) 


Bhadrika (5y) 


From 9y Ilmto  14y 10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhad Me 17-10-1994 24-06-1995 


Ulka Sa 24-06-1995 19-04-1996 
Sidh Ve 19-04-1996 04-04-1997 
Sank Ra 04-04-1997 09-05-1998 
MangMo 09-05-1998 28-06-1998 
Ping Su 28-06-1998 06-10-1998 
Dhan Ju 06-10-1998 05-03-1999 


Bhra Ma 05-03-1999 21-09-1999 


From 14y 10m to 20y 9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Ulka Sa 21-09-1999 15-09-2000 


Sidh Ve 15-09-2000 09-11-2001 
Sank Ra 09-11-2001 04-03-2003 
Mang Mo 04-03-2003 03-05-2003 
Ping Su 03-05-2003 31-08-2003 
Dhan Ju 31-08-2003 27-02-2004 
Bhra Ma 27-02-2004 24-10-2004 


Bhad Me 24-10-2004 20-08-2005 


From 20y 9m to 27y 8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sidh Ve 20-08-2005 23-12-2006 


Sank Ra 23-12-2006 05-07-2008 
Mang Mo 05-07-2008 13-09-2008 
Ping Su 13-09-2008 31-01-2009 
Dhan Ju 31-01-2009 29-08-2009 
Bhra Ma 29-08-2009 05-06-2010 
Bhad Me 05-06-2010 21-05-2011 


Ulka Sa 21-05-2011 14-07-2012 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 39 


Date of Death 


Yogini Dasha - Second Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Sankata (8y) 
From 27y8m to 35y7m 


(Second Cycle) 


Mangala (ly) 
From 35y7m to 36y6m 


Pingala (2y) 
From 36y6m to 38y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sank Ra 14-07-2012 15-04-2014 
MangMo 15-04-2014 04-07-2014 
Ping Su 04-07-2014 11-12-2014 
Dhan Ju 11-12-2014 08-08-2015 
Bhra Ma 08-08-2015 23-06-2016 
Bhad Me 23-06-2016 28-07-2017 
Ulka Sa 28-07-2017 20-11-2018 
Sidh Ve 20-11-2018 02-06-2020 


MangMo 02-06-2020 12-06-2020 
Ping Su 12-06-2020 02-07-2020 
Dhan Ju _ 02-07-2020 01-08-2020 
Bhra Ma 01-08-2020 10-09-2020 
Bhad Me 10-09-2020 30-10-2020 
Ulka Sa 30-10-2020 29-12-2020 
Sidh Ve 29-12-2020 09-03-2021 
Sank Ra 09-03-2021 28-05-2021 


Ping Su 28-05-2021 07-07-2021 
Dhan Ju 07-07-2021 05-09-2021 
Bhra Ma 05-09-2021 24-11-2021 
Bhad Me 24-11-2021 04-03-2022 
Ulka Sa 04-03-2022 02-07-2022 
Sidh Ve 02-07-2022 19-11-2022 
Sank Ra 19-11-2022 28-04-2023 
MangMo 28-04-2023 18-05-2023 


Dhanya (3y) 
From 38y6m to 4ly6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Dhan Ju 18-05-2023 16-08-2023 


Bhra Ma 16-08-2023 14-12-2023 
Bhad Me 14-12-2023 12-05-2024 
Ulka Sa 12-05-2024 08-11-2024 
Sidh Ve 08-11-2024 06-06-2025 
Sank Ra 06-06-2025 01-02-2026 
MangMo 01-02-2026 03-03-2026 


Ping Su 03-03-2026 02-05-2026 


Bhramari (4y) 
From4ly6mto 45y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 02-05-2026 09-10-2026 


Bhad Me 09-10-2026 27-04-2027 
Ulka Sa 27-04-2027 23-12-2027 
Sidh Ve 23-12-2027 28-09-2028 
Sank Ra 28-09-2028 14-08-2029 
Mang Mo 14-08-2029 23-09-2029 
Ping Su 23-09-2029 12-12-2029 


Dhan Ju 12-12-2029 11-04-2030 


Bhadrika (5y) 
From 45y5mto S0y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Bhad Me 11-04-2030 17-12-2030 
Ulka Sa 17-12-2030 13-10-2031 
Sidh Ve 13-10-2031 27-09-2032 
Sank Ra 27-09-2032 01-11-2033 
MangMo 01-11-2033 21-12-2033 
Ping Su 21-12-2033 31-03-2034 
Dhan Ju 31-03-2034 28-08-2034 
Bhra Ma 28-08-2034 16-03-2035 


Ulka (6y) 
From 50y4mto S6y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ulka Sa 16-03-2035 10-03-2036 


Sidh Ve 10-03-2036 04-05-2037 
Sank Ra 04-05-2037 27-08-2038 
MangMo 27-08-2038 26-10-2038 
Ping Su 26-10-2038 23-02-2039 
Dhan Ju 23-02-2039 22-08-2039 
Bhra Ma 22-08-2039 18-04-2040 


Bhad Me 18-04-2040 12-02-2041 


Siddha (7y) 
From 56y3mto 63y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sidh Ve 12-02-2041 17-06-2042 


Sank Ra 17-06-2042 29-12-2043 
MangMo 29-12-2043 08-03-2044 
Ping Su 08-03-2044 26-07-2044 
Dhan Ju 26-07-2044 21-02-2045 
Bhra Ma 21-02-2045 28-11-2045 
Bhad Me 28-11-2045 13-11-2046 


Ulka Sa 13-11-2046 07-01-2048 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 40 


Date of Death 


Yogini Dasha - Third Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Sankata (8y) 
From 63y2mto 7ly0m 


(Third Cycle) 


Mangala (ly) 
From 7lyOmto 72y0m 


Pingala (2y) 
From 72y0m to 74y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sank Ra 07-01-2048 08-10-2049 
MangMo 08-10-2049 27-12-2049 
Ping Su 27-12-2049 05-06-2050 
Dhan Ju 05-06-2050 31-01-2051 
Bhra Ma 31-01-2051 17-12-2051 
Bhad Me 17-12-2051 20-01-2053 
Ulka Sa 20-01-2053 15-05-2054 
Sidh Ve 15-05-2054 26-11-2055 


Mang Mo 26-11-2055 06-12-2055 
Ping Su 06-12-2055 26-12-2055 
Dhan Ju 26-12-2055 25-01-2056 
Bhra Ma 25-01-2056 05-03-2056 
Bhad Me 05-03-2056 24-04-2056 
Ulka Sa 24-04-2056 23-06-2056 
Sidh Ve 23-06-2056 01-09-2056 
Sank Ra 01-09-2056 20-11-2056 


Ping Su 20-11-2056 30-12-2056 
Dhan Ju 30-12-2056 28-02-2057 
Bhra Ma 28-02-2057 19-05-2057 
Bhad Me 19-05-2057 27-08-2057 
Ulka Sa 27-08-2057 25-12-2057 
Sidh Ve 25-12-2057 14-05-2058 
Sank Ra 14-05-2058 21-10-2058 
Mang Mo 21-10-2058 10-11-2058 


Dhanya (3y) 
From 74y0m to 76yl1m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Dhan Ju 10-11-2058 08-02-2059 


Bhra Ma 08-02-2059 08-06-2059 
Bhad Me 08-06-2059 05-11-2059 
Ulka Sa 05-11-2059 03-05-2060 
Sidh Ve 93-95-2060 99_11-2060 
Sank Ra 29-11-2060 27-07-2061 
MangMo 27-07-2061 26-08-2061 


Bhramari (4y) 
From 76yllmto 80yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 25-10-2061 03-04-2062 


Bhad Me 03-04-2062 20-10-2062 
Ulka Sa 20-10-2062 17-06-2063 
Sidh Ve 17-06-2063 23-03-2064 
Sank Ra 23-03-2064 06-02-2065 
Mang Mo 06-02-2065 18-03-2065 
Ping Su 18-03-2065 06-06-2065 


Bhadrika (5y) 
From 80yllmto 85yl10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhad Me 04-10-2065 11-06-2066 


Ulka Sa 11-06-2066 07-04-2067 
Sidh Ve 07-04-2067 22-03-2068 
Sank Ra 22-03-2068 26-04-2069 
MangMo 26-04-2069 15-06-2069 
Ping Su 15-06-2069 23-09-2069 
Dhan Ju 23-09-2069 20-02-2070 


Ping Su 26-08-2061 25-10-2061 


Ulka (6y) 
From 85y10m to 9ly9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ulka Sa 08-09-2070 03-09-2071 


Sidh Ve 03-09-2071 27-10-2072 
Sank Ra 27-10-2072 19-02-2074 
Mang Mo 19-02-2074 20-04-2074 
Ping Su 20-04-2074 18-08-2074 
Dhan Ju_ 18-08-2074 14-02-2075 
Bhra Ma 14-02-2075 12-10-2075 


Bhad Me 12-10-2075 07-08-2076 


Dhan Ju 06-06-2065 04-10-2065 


Siddha (7y) 
From 9ly9mto  98y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sidh Ve 07-08-2076 10-12-2077 


Sank Ra 10-12-2077 23-06-2079 
Mang Mo 23-06-2079 01-09-2079 
Ping Su 01-09-2079 19-01-2080 
Dhan Ju 19-01-2080 16-08-2080 
Bhra Ma 16-08-2080 23-05-2081 
Bhad Me 23-05-2081 08-05-2082 


Ulka Sa 08-05-2082 02-07-2083 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Bhra Ma 20-02-2070 08-09-2070 


HP3 + 41 


Date of Death (3 Kala Chakra Dasha — MD and AD 


Kala Chakra Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth : Pisces 4y 5m 10d * Jeeva Rashi : Pisces * Deha Rashi : Cancer 


Pis (10y) dyOm* Ari (7y) 27y1m_ Tau (16y) 35y1lm Gem (9y) 56y 8m 
Beginning Beginning 11-04-1989 Beginning 05-03-1996 Beginning 12-12-2011 
Ending 11-04-1989 Ending 05-03-1996 Ending 12-12-2011 25-10-2020 
12 Pis Lib 11-04-1989 Sco 05-03-1996 12-12-2011 
11. Aqu Sco 07-11-1989 i 28-06-1997 07-09-2012 
10 Cap Sag 05-06-1990 21-10-1998 04-06-2013 
Sag Cap 01-01-1991 13-02-2000 i 01-03-2014 
Sco 30-07-1991 07-06-2001 i 26-11-2014 
i 25-02-1992 30-09-2002 23-08-2015 
31-10-1984 22-09-1992 23-01-2004 19-05-2016 
03-03-1985 20-04-1993 17-05-2005 13-02-2017 
28-12-1985 16-11-1993 1 09-09-2006 10-11-2017 
24-10-1986 14-06-1994 02-01-2008 i 07-08-2018 
20-08-1987 10-01-1995 Cap 26-04-2009 i 04-05-2019 
15-06-1988 08-08-1995 Sag 19-08-2010 29-01-2020 


‘So 


ma NW UH ~1 


Can (21y) 6ly7m Leo (5y) Toysm_ Vir (9y) 86y3m_ Lib (16y) 93y Im 


Beginning 25-10-2020 Beginning 07-07-2041 Beginning 11-06-2046 Beginning 25-04-2055 
Ending 07-07-2041 Ending 11-06-2046 Ending 25-04-2055 Ending 31-01-2071 
10 Cap 25-10-2020 07-07-2041 12 Pis 11-06-2046 i 25-04-2055 
Sag 17-07-2022 04-12-2041 11 Aqu 08-03-2047 17-08-2056 
Sco 07-04-2024 03-05-2042 10 Cap 03-12-2047 10-12-2057 
i 28-12-2025 30-09-2042 Sag 29-08-2048 04-04-2059 
19-09-2027 27-02-2043 Sco 26-05-2049 27-07-2060 
10-06-2029 27-07-2043 i 20-02-2050 i 19-11-2061 
02-03-2031 24-12-2043 17-11-2050 i 14-03-2063 
21-11-2032 22-05-2044 14-08-2051 06-07-2064 
13-08-2034 19-10-2044 10-05-2052 29-10-2065 
04-05-2036 18-03-2045 04-02-2053 21-02-2067 
24-01-2038 15-08-2045 01-11-2053 15-06-2068 
16-10-2039 12-01-2046 29-07-2054 i 08-10-2069 


— 
— 


\o 
-_ 


\o 


8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
2 
1 


— 
=" 

See erINA MN WN = NV 
ma Nw UH ~1 


Sco (7y) 103y0m Sag (10y) 106y 11m Cap (4y) 110y10m Aqu (4y) 120y 9m 


Beginning 31-01-2071 Beginning 25-12-2077 Beginning 03-11-2087 Beginning 13-10-2091 
Ending 25-12-2077 Ending 03-11-2087 Ending 13-10-2091 22-09-2095 
Sco 31-01-2071 Sag 25-12-2077 Cap 03-11-2087 13-10-2091 

1 29-08-2071 Cap 21-10-2078 Sag 02-03-2088 10-02-2092 
26-03-2072 17-08-2079 Sco 30-06-2088 09-06-2092 

22-10-2072 i 12-06-2080 1 28-10-2088 07-10-2092 

20-05-2073 i 08-04-2081 i 25-02-2089 04-02-2093 

16-12-2073 02-02-2082 25-06-2089 04-06-2093 

14-07-2074 29-11-2082 23-10-2089 02-10-2093 

09-02-2075 25-09-2083 20-02-2090 30-01-2094 

07-09-2075 21-07-2084 20-06-2090 30-05-2094 

04-04-2076 i 17-05-2085 i 18-10-2090 27-09-2094 

31-10-2076 1 13-03-2086 i 15-02-2091 25-01-2095 

29-05-2077 07-01-2087 15-06-2091 25-05-2095 


* The dates are Dasha beginning dates * 


Swe OEAINIAMN EWN 


— 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 42 


Date of Death 


Pis-Vir 
31-10-1984 
03-03-1985 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #1 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Pisces * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Begin 03-03-1985 
End 28-12-1985 


Begin 28-12-1985 
End 24-10-1986 


Begin 24-10-1986 
End 20-08-1987 


Begin 20-08-1987 
End 15-06-1988 


31-10-1984 
23-11-1984 
18-12-1984 
12-01-1985 
06-02-1985 


Pis-Ari 


Aqu 03-03-1985 
PisD 28-03-1985 
Ari 22-04-1985 
17-05-1985 
11-06-1985 
06-07-1985 
31-07-1985 
25-08-1985 
19-09-1985 
14-10-1985 
08-11-1985 
03-12-1985 


Ari-Lib 


Cap 28-12-1985 
Sag 22-01-1986 
Sco 16-02-1986 
Lib 13-03-1986 
07-04-1986 
02-05-1986 
27-05-1986 
21-06-1986 
16-07-1986 
10-08-1986 
04-09-1986 
29-09-1986 


Ari-Sco 


Sag 24-10-1986 
Cap 18-11-1986 
13-12-1986 
07-01-1987 
01-02-1987 
26-02-1987 
23-03-1987 
17-04-1987 
12-05-1987 
06-06-1987 
01-07-1987 
26-07-1987 


Sco 20-08-1987 
Lib 14-09-1987 
i 09-10-1987 
03-11-1987 
28-11-1987 
23-12-1987 
17-01-1988 
11-02-1988 
07-03-1988 
01-04-1988 
26-04-1988 
21-05-1988 


Begin 15-06-1988 
11-04-1989 
15-06-1988 
10-07-1988 
04-08-1988 
29-08-1988 
23-09-1988 
18-10-1988 
12-11-1988 
07-12-1988 
01-01-1989 
26-01-1989 
20-02-1989 
17-03-1989 


Begin 11-04-1989 
07-11-1989 
11-04-1989 
28-04-1989 
16-05-1989 
02-06-1989 
20-06-1989 
07-07-1989 
25-07-1989 
11-08-1989 
29-08-1989 
15-09-1989 
03-10-1989 
20-10-1989 


Begin 07-11-1989 
05-06-1990 
07-11-1989 
24-11-1989 
12-12-1989 
29-12-1989 
16-01-1990 
02-02-1990 
20-02-1990 
09-03-1990 
27-03-1990 
13-04-1990 

Cap 01-05-1990 

Sag 18-05-1990 


Begin 05-06-1990 
01-01-1991 
05-06-1990 
22-06-1990 
10-07-1990 
27-07-1990 
14-08-1990 
31-08-1990 
18-09-1990 
05-10-1990 
23-10-1990 
09-11-1990 
27-11-1990 
14-12-1990 


01-01-1991 
30-07-1991 


01-01-1991 
18-01-1991 
05-02-1991 
22-02-1991 
12-03-1991 
29-03-1991 
16-04-1991 
03-05-1991 
21-05-1991 
07-06-1991 
25-06-1991 
12-07-1991 


Begin 30-07-1991 
End 25-02-1992 


Ari-Pis 
Begin 25-02-1992 
End = 22-09-1992 


Ari-Ari 
Begin 22-09-1992 
End = 20-04-1993 


Begin 20-04-1993 
End 16-11-1993 


Begin 16-11-1993 


End 14-06-1994 


Aqu 30-07-1991 
PisD 16-08-1991 
03-09-1991 
20-09-1991 
08-10-1991 
25-10-1991 
12-11-1991 
29-11-1991 
17-12-1991 
03-01-1992 
21-01-1992 
07-02-1992 


PisD 25-02-1992 
Aqu 13-03-1992 
Cap 31-03-1992 
Sag 17-04-1992 
Sco 05-05-1992 
ib 22-05-1992 
09-06-1992 
26-06-1992 
14-07-1992 
31-07-1992 
18-08-1992 
04-09-1992 


Lib 22-09-1992 
Sco 09-10-1992 
Sag 27-10-1992 
Cap =: 13-11-1992 
01-12-1992 
18-12-1992 
05-01-1993 
22-01-1993 
09-02-1993 
26-02-1993 
16-03-1993 
02-04-1993 


Sco 20-04-1993 
Lib =: 07-05-1993 
i 25-05-1993 
11-06-1993 
29-06-1993 
16-07-1993 
03-08-1993 
20-08-1993 
07-09-1993 
24-09-1993 
12-10-1993 
29-10-1993 


Sag 16-11-1993 
Cap 03-12-1993 
21-12-1993 
07-01-1994 
25-01-1994 
11-02-1994 
01-03-1994 
18-03-1994 
05-04-1994 
22-04-1994 
10-05-1994 
27-05-1994 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 43 


Date of Death 


Ari-Can 
Begin 14-06-1994 
End 10-01-1995 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #2 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Pisces * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Begin 10-01-1995 
End 08-08-1995 


Ari-Vir 
Begin 08-08-1995 
End 05-03-1996 


Begin 05-03-1996 
End 28-06-1997 


Begin 28-06-1997 
End 21-10-1998 


Cap 14-06-1994 
Sag 01-07-1994 
Sco 19-07-1994 
Lib 05-08-1994 
23-08-1994 
09-09-1994 
27-09-1994 
14-10-1994 
01-11-1994 
18-11-1994 
06-12-1994 
23-12-1994 


Tau-Vir 


Aqu 10-01-1995 
PisD 27-01-1995 
Ari 14-02-1995 
03-03-1995 
21-03-1995 
07-04-1995 
25-04-1995 
12-05-1995 
30-05-1995 
16-06-1995 
04-07-1995 
21-07-1995 


Tau-Leo 


PisD 08-08-1995 
Aqu = 25-08-1995 
Cap =: 12-09-1995 
Sag 29-09-1995 
17-10-1995 
03-11-1995 
21-11-1995 
08-12-1995 
26-12-1995 
12-01-1996 
30-01-1996 
16-02-1996 


Tau-Can 


Sco 05-03-1996 
Lib 14-04-1996 
i 24-05-1996 
03-07-1996 
12-08-1996 
21-09-1996 
31-10-1996 
10-12-1996 
19-01-1997 
28-02-1997 
09-04-1997 
19-05-1997 


Tau-Gem 


Lib = 28-06-1997 
Sco 07-08-1997 
Sag 16-09-1997 
26-10-1997 
05-12-1997 
14-01-1998 
23-02-1998 
04-04-1998 
14-05-1998 
23-06-1998 
02-08-1998 
11-09-1998 


Tau-Tau 


Begin 21-10-1998 
13-02-2000 
21-10-1998 
30-11-1998 
09-01-1999 
18-02-1999 
30-03-1999 
09-05-1999 
18-06-1999 
28-07-1999 
06-09-1999 
16-10-1999 
25-11-1999 
04-01-2000 


Begin 13-02-2000 
07-06-2001 
13-02-2000 
24-03-2000 
03-05-2000 
12-06-2000 
22-07-2000 
31-08-2000 
10-10-2000 
19-11-2000 
29-12-2000 

Sco 07-02-2001 

Sag 19-03-2001 

Cap 28-04-2001 


Begin 07-06-2001 
30-09-2002 
07-06-2001 
17-07-2001 
26-08-2001 
05-10-2001 
14-11-2001 
24-12-2001 
02-02-2002 
14-03-2002 
23-04-2002 
02-06-2002 
12-07-2002 
21-08-2002 


Begin 30-09-2002 
23-01-2004 
30-09-2002 
09-11-2002 
19-12-2002 
28-01-2003 
09-03-2003 
18-04-2003 
28-05-2003 
07-07-2003 
16-08-2003 
25-09-2003 
04-11-2003 
14-12-2003 


Begin 23-01-2004 
17-05-2005 
23-01-2004 
03-03-2004 
12-04-2004 
22-05-2004 
01-07-2004 
10-08-2004 
19-09-2004 
29-10-2004 
08-12-2004 
17-01-2005 
26-02-2005 
07-04-2005 


Tau-Ari 
Begin 17-05-2005 
End 09-09-2006 


Tau-Pis 
Begin 09-09-2006 
End _ 02-01-2008 


Begin 02-01-2008 
End 26-04-2009 


26-04-2009 
19-08-2010 


Begin 19-08-2010 
End 12-12-2011 


Lib 17-05-2005 
Sco 26-06-2005 
Sag 05-08-2005 
Cap ‘14-09-2005 
24-10-2005 
03-12-2005 
12-01-2006 
21-02-2006 
02-04-2006 
12-05-2006 
21-06-2006 
31-07-2006 


PisD 09-09-2006 
Aqu 19-10-2006 
Cap 28-11-2006 
Sag 07-01-2007 
Sco 16-02-2007 
i 28-03-2007 
07-05-2007 
16-06-2007 
26-07-2007 
04-09-2007 
14-10-2007 
23-11-2007 


02-01-2008 
11-02-2008 


Aqu 

Pis D 
Ari 22-03-2008 
Tau 01-05-2008 


Gem 10-06-2008 
Can J 20-07-2008 
Leo 29-08-2008 
Vir 08-10-2008 
17-11-2008 
27-12-2008 
Sag 05-02-2009 
17-03-2009 


26-04-2009 
05-06-2009 
15-07-2009 
24-08-2009 
03-10-2009 
12-11-2009 
22-12-2009 
31-01-2010 
12-03-2010 
21-04-2010 
31-05-2010 
10-07-2010 


Sag 19-08-2010 
Cap 28-09-2010 
07-11-2010 
17-12-2010 
26-01-2011 
07-03-2011 
16-04-2011 
26-05-2011 
05-07-2011 
14-08-2011 
23-09-2011 
02-11-2011 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 44 


Date of Death 


Begin 12-12-2011 
End 07-09-2012 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #3 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Pisces * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Begin 07-09-2012 
End 04-06-2013 


Begin 04-06-2013 
End 01-03-2014 


Begin 01-03-2014 
End = 26-11-2014 


Begin 26-11-2014 
End = 23-08-2015 


Sag 12-12-2011 
Cap 03-01-2012 
26-01-2012 
17-02-2012 
11-03-2012 
02-04-2012 
25-04-2012 
17-05-2012 
09-06-2012 
01-07-2012 
24-07-2012 
15-08-2012 


Gem-Tau 


Cap 07-09-2012 
Sag 29-09-2012 
22-10-2012 
13-11-2012 
06-12-2012 
98-19-3012 
20-01-2013 
11-02-2013 
06-03-2013 
28-03-2013 
20-04-2013 
12-05-2013 


Agu 04-06-2013 
PisD 26-06-2013 
Ari 19-07-2013 
10-08-2013 
02-09-2013 
24-09-2013 
17-10-2013 
08-11-2013 
01-12-2013 
23-12-2013 
15-01-2014 
06-02-2014 


PisD 01-03-2014 
Aqu 23-03-2014 
Cap 15-04-2014 
Sag 07-05-2014 
Sco 30-05-2014 
Lib 21-06-2014 
ir 14-07-2014 
05-08-2014 
28-08-2014 
19-09-2014 
12-10-2014 
03-11-2014 


Gem-Leo 


Lib. 26-11-2014 
Sco =: 18-12-2014 
Sag 10-01-2015 
01-02-2015 
24-02-2015 
18-03-2015 
10-04-2015 
02-05-2015 
25-05-2015 
16-06-2015 
09-07-2015 
31-07-2015 


Gem-Vir 


Begin 23-08-2015 
19-05-2016 
23-08-2015 
14-09-2015 
07-10-2015 
29-10-2015 
21-11-2015 
13-12-2015 
05-01-2016 
27-01-2016 
19-02-2016 
12-03-2016 

Cap 04-04-2016 

Sag 26-04-2016 


Begin 19-05-2016 
13-02-2017 
19-05-2016 
10-06-2016 
03-07-2016 
25-07-2016 
17-08-2016 
08-09-2016 
01-10-2016 
23-10-2016 
15-11-2016 
07-12-2016 
30-12-2016 
21-01-2017 


Begin 13-02-2017 
10-11-2017 
13-02-2017 
07-03-2017 
30-03-2017 
21-04-2017 
14-05-2017 
05-06-2017 
28-06-2017 
20-07-2017 
12-08-2017 
03-09-2017 
26-09-2017 
18-10-2017 


Begin 10-11-2017 
07-08-2018 
10-11-2017 
02-12-2017 
25-12-2017 
16-01-2018 
08-02-2018 
02-03-2018 
25-03-2018 
16-04-2018 
09-05-2018 
31-05-2018 
23-06-2018 
15-07-2018 


Begin 07-08-2018 
04-05-2019 
07-08-2018 
29-08-2018 
21-09-2018 
13-10-2018 
05-11-2018 
27-11-2018 
20-12-2018 
11-01-2019 
03-02-2019 
25-02-2019 
20-03-2019 
11-04-2019 


Gem-Lib 
Begin 04-05-2019 
End = 29-01-2020 


Begin 29-01-2020 
End 25-10-2020 


Begin 25-10-2020 


End _ 17-07-2022 


Begin 17-07-2022 
End 07-04-2024 


Can-Sco 
Begin 07-04-2024 
End = 28-12-2025 


Lib 04-05-2019 
Sco 26-05-2019 
Sag 18-06-2019 
Cap 10-07-2019 
02-08-2019 
24-08-2019 
16-09-2019 
08-10-2019 
31-10-2019 
22-11-2019 
15-12-2019 
06-01-2020 


Sco 29-01-2020 
Lib 20-02-2020 
1 14-03-2020 
05-04-2020 
28-04-2020 
20-05-2020 
12-06-2020 
04-07-2020 
27-07-2020 
18-08-2020 
10-09-2020 
02-10-2020 


Cap 25-10-2020 
Sag 16-12-2020 
Sco 07-02-2021 
Lib 31-03-2021 
1 23-05-2021 
14-07-2021 
05-09-2021 
27-10-2021 
19-12-2021 
09-02-2022 
03-04-2022 
25-05-2022 


Sag 17-07-2022 
Cap 07-09-2022 
30-10-2022 
21-12-2022 
12-02-2023 
05-04-2023 
28-05-2023 
19-07-2023 
10-09-2023 
01-11-2023 
24-12-2023 
14-02-2024 


Sco 07-04-2024 
Lib 29-05-2024 
21-07-2024 
11-09-2024 
03-11-2024 
25-12-2024 
16-02-2025 
09-04-2025 
01-06-2025 
23-07-2025 
14-09-2025 
05-11-2025 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 45 


Date of Death 


Begin 28-12-2025 
End 19-09-2027 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #4 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Pisces * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Can-Vir 
Begin 19-09-2027 
End 10-06-2029 


Begin 10-06-2029 
End 02-03-2031 


02-03-2031 
21-11-2032 


Begin 21-11-2032 
End 13-08-2034 


Lib = 28-12-2025 
Sco —- 18-02-2026 
Sag = 12-04-2026 
03-06-2026 
26-07-2026 
16-09-2026 
08-11-2026 
30-12-2026 
21-02-2027 
14-04-2027 
06-06-2027 
28-07-2027 


Can-Tau 


PisD 19-09-2027 
Aqu = 10-11-2027 
Cap 02-01-2028 
Sag 23-02-2028 
Sco 16-04-2028 
1 07-06-2028 
30-07-2028 
20-09-2028 
12-11-2028 
03-01-2029 
25-02-2029 
18-04-2029 


Can-Ari 


Aqu 10-06-2029 
PisD 01-08-2029 
Ari 23-09-2029 
14-11-2029 
06-01-2030 
27-02-2030 
21-04-2030 
12-06-2030 
04-08-2030 
25-09-2030 
17-11-2030 
08-01-2031 


Can-Pis 


02-03-2031 
23-04-2031 
15-06-2031 
06-08-2031 
28-09-2031 
19-11-2031 
11-01-2032 
03-03-2032 
25-04-2032 
16-06-2032 
08-08-2032 
29-09-2032 


Sag =. 21-11-2032 
Cap 12-01-2033 
06-03-2033 
27-04-2033 
19-06-2033 
10-08-2033 
02-10-2033 
23-11-2033 
15-01-2034 
08-03-2034 
30-04-2034 
21-06-2034 


Begin 13-08-2034 
04-05-2036 
13-08-2034 
04-10-2034 
26-11-2034 
17-01-2035 
11-03-2035 
02-05-2035 
24-06-2035 
15-08-2035 
07-10-2035 
28-11-2035 

Cap 20-01-2036 

Sag 12-03-2036 


Begin 04-05-2036 
24-01-2038 
04-05-2036 
25-06-2036 
17-08-2036 
08-10-2036 
30-11-2036 
21-01-2037 
15-03-2037 
06-05-2037 
28-06-2037 
19-08-2037 
11-10-2037 
02-12-2037 


Begin 24-01-2038 
16-10-2039 
24-01-2038 
17-03-2038 
09-05-2038 
30-06-2038 
22-08-2038 
13-10-2038 
05-12-2038 
26-01-2039 
20-03-2039 
11-05-2039 
03-07-2039 
24-08-2039 


Begin 16-10-2039 
07-07-2041 
16-10-2039 
07-12-2039 
29-01-2040 
21-03-2040 
13-05-2040 
04-07-2040 
26-08-2040 
17-10-2040 
09-12-2040 

Sco 30-01-2041 

Sag 24-03-2041 

Cap 15-05-2041 


Begin 07-07-2041 
04-12-2041 
07-07-2041 
19-07-2041 
01-08-2041 
13-08-2041 
26-08-2041 
07-09-2041 
20-09-2041 
02-10-2041 
15-10-2041 

Sco 27-10-2041 

Sag 09-11-2041 

Cap 21-11-2041 


Leo-Pis 
Begin 04-12-2041 


End 03-05-2042 


Leo-Ari 
Begin 03-05-2042 
End 30-09-2042 


Leo-Tau 
Begin 30-09-2042 
End = 27-02-2043 


Leo-Gem 
Begin 27-02-2043 
End = 27-07-2043 


Leo-Can 
27-07-2043 
24-12-2043 


PisD 04-12-2041 
Aqu = 16-12-2041 
Cap 29-12-2041 
Sag 10-01-2042 
Sco 23-01-2042 
Lib =: 04-02-2042 
i 17-02-2042 
01-03-2042 
14-03-2042 
26-03-2042 
08-04-2042 
20-04-2042 


Lib 03-05-2042 
Sco 15-05-2042 
Sag 28-05-2042 
Cap 09-06-2042 
22-06-2042 
04-07-2042 
17-07-2042 
29-07-2042 
11-08-2042 
23-08-2042 
05-09-2042 
17-09-2042 


Sco 30-09-2042 
Lib 12-10-2042 
Vir 25-10-2042 
Leo 06-11-2042 
19-11-2042 
01-12-2042 
14-12-2042 
26-12-2042 
08-01-2043 
20-01-2043 
02-02-2043 
14-02-2043 


Sag =. 27-02-2043 
Cap 11-03-2043 
24-03-2043 
05-04-2043 
18-04-2043 
30-04-2043 
13-05-2043 
25-05-2043 
07-06-2043 
19-06-2043 
02-07-2043 
14-07-2043 


27-07-2043 
08-08-2043 
21-08-2043 
02-09-2043 
15-09-2043 
27-09-2043 
10-10-2043 
22-10-2043 
04-11-2043 
16-11-2043 
29-11-2043 
11-12-2043 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 46 


Date of Death 


Begin 24-12-2043 
End =. 22-05-2044 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #5 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Pisces * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Begin 22-05-2044 
End _ 19-10-2044 


Begin 19-10-2044 
End 18-03-2045 


Leo-Sco 
Begin 18-03-2045 
End = 15-08-2045 


Begin 15-08-2045 
End 12-01-2046 


Aqu 24-12-2043 
PisD 05-01-2044 
Ari 18-01-2044 
30-01-2044 
12-02-2044 
24-02-2044 
08-03-2044 
20-03-2044 
02-04-2044 
14-04-2044 
27-04-2044 
09-05-2044 


PisD 22-05-2044 
Aqu 03-06-2044 
Cap 16-06-2044 
Sag 28-06-2044 
Sco 11-07-2044 
1 23-07-2044 
05-08-2044 
17-08-2044 
30-08-2044 
11-09-2044 
24-09-2044 
06-10-2044 


Vir-Pis 


Lib 19-10-2044 
Sco 31-10-2044 
13-11-2044 
25-11-2044 
08-12-2044 
20-12-2044 
02-01-2045 
14-01-2045 
27-01-2045 
08-02-2045 
21-02-2045 
05-03-2045 


Sco 18-03-2045 
Lib 30-03-2045 
i 12-04-2045 
24-04-2045 
07-05-2045 
19-05-2045 
01-06-2045 
13-06-2045 
26-06-2045 
08-07-2045 
21-07-2045 
02-08-2045 


Sag 15-08-2045 
Cap 27-08-2045 
09-09-2045 
21-09-2045 
04-10-2045 
16-10-2045 
29-10-2045 
10-11-2045 
23-11-2045 
05-12-2045 
18-12-2045 
30-12-2045 


12-01-2046 
24-01-2046 
06-02-2046 
18-02-2046 
03-03-2046 
15-03-2046 
28-03-2046 
09-04-2046 
22-04-2046 
04-05-2046 
17-05-2046 
29-05-2046 


Begin 11-06-2046 
08-03-2047 
11-06-2046 
03-07-2046 
26-07-2046 
17-08-2046 
09-09-2046 
01-10-2046 
24-10-2046 
15-11-2046 
08-12-2046 
30-12-2046 
22-01-2047 
13-02-2047 


Begin 08-03-2047 
03-12-2047 
08-03-2047 
30-03-2047 
22-04-2047 
14-05-2047 
06-06-2047 
28-06-2047 
21-07-2047 
12-08-2047 
04-09-2047 

Sco 26-09-2047 

Sag 19-10-2047 

Cap =: 10-11-2047 


03-12-2047 
29-08-2048 


03-12-2047 
25-12-2047 
17-01-2048 
08-02-2048 
02-03-2048 
24-03-2048 
16-04-2048 
08-05-2048 
31-05-2048 
22-06-2048 
15-07-2048 
06-08-2048 


Begin 29-08-2048 
26-05-2049 
29-08-2048 
20-09-2048 
13-10-2048 
04-11-2048 
27-11-2048 
19-12-2048 
11-01-2049 
02-02-2049 
25-02-2049 
19-03-2049 
11-04-2049 

Sco 03-05-2049 


Begin 26-05-2049 
End 20-02-2050 


Vir-Lib 
Begin 20-02-2050 
End 17-11-2050 


Vir-Vir 
Begin 17-11-2050 
End 14-08-2051 


Begin 14-08-2051 


End 10-05-2052 


Vir-Can 
10-05-2052 
04-02-2053 


Sco 26-05-2049 
Lib 17-06-2049 
10-07-2049 
01-08-2049 
24-08-2049 
15-09-2049 
08-10-2049 
30-10-2049 
22-11-2049 
14-12-2049 
06-01-2050 
28-01-2050 


Lib 20-02-2050 
Sco 14-03-2050 
Sag 06-04-2050 
Cap 28-04-2050 
21-05-2050 
12-06-2050 
05-07-2050 
27-07-2050 
19-08-2050 
10-09-2050 
03-10-2050 
25-10-2050 


PisD 17-11-2050 
Aqu 09-12-2050 
Cap 01-01-2051 
Sag 23-01-2051 
Sco 15-02-2051 
Lib 09-03-2051 
Vir 01-04-2051 
Leo 23-04-2051 
16-05-2051 
07-06-2051 
30-06-2051 
22-07-2051 


Aqu = 14-08-2051 
PisD 05-09-2051 
Ari 28-09-2051 
20-10-2051 
12-11-2051 
04-12-2051 
27-12-2051 
18-01-2052 
10-02-2052 
03-03-2052 
26-03-2052 
17-04-2052 


10-05-2052 
01-06-2052 
24-06-2052 
16-07-2052 
08-08-2052 
30-08-2052 
22-09-2052 
14-10-2052 
06-11-2052 
28-11-2052 
21-12-2052 
12-01-2053 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 47 


Date of Death Jaimini System 


Jaimini System 


Chara Karakas Navamsha 


AK | AmK| BK MK PK GK DK 
Mer Mar Sat Ven Jup Sun Mon 
26:52 | 24:48 | 24:06 | 19:37 | 15:03 | 14:15 | 09:49 


Mo 


31 Oct 1984 09:20:00 hrs., Delhi, Delhi, India 


Ra 


Gk As 
Ve Ma 


Pada Chart 


ed ee 


Mo 


1P 


JuMa | Ke As 
Gk Ve 


Su Sa 


Me 10P 12P| 11P As 


Karakamsha (in Birth Chart) Swamsha (in Navamsha) Upapada Lagna 


Ra Sa Me 


Mo 


Ju Ma | Ke As} Su Sa 
Gk Ve Me 


Special Points 


Jaimini Hora Lagna 
Varnada Lagna 


Jaimini Aspects 
: Aquarius 10:59:26 


Aspects between Planets in dual signs: om 
: Gemini 


Ma-Ju 


Aspects between Planets in movable and 
fixed signs: Su-Ra, Mo-Ve, Mo-Ra, 
Mo-Ke, Me-Ra, Sa-Ra 


Pranpada Lagna 


Arudha Lagna 
Upapada 

Yogi 

Ava Yogi 
Dagdha Rashis 
Brahma 
Maheshwara 
Rudra 


Karakamsha(in Nav) 


: Capricorn 22:26:49 
: Gemini 

: Capricorn 

: Virgo 

: Ju 

: Su 

: Gem, Vir 

: Venus 

: Venus 

: Mercury 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 48 


Date of Death (3 Jaimini Chara Dasha #1 


Jaimini Chara Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. * Running age is given for beginning of dasha. 


Scorpio (ly) dyOm* Libra (ly) dylim Virgo (1ly) lyllm Leo (10y) 12y9m 


Beginning 31-10-1984 Beginning 26-10-1985 Beginning 21-10-1986 Beginning 24-08-1997 
Ending 26-10-1985 Ending 21-10-1986 Ending 24-08-1997 Ending 03-07-2007 
31-10-1984 Sco 26-10-1985 Lib 21-10-1986 Vir 24-08-1997 

30-11-1984 Sag 25-11-1985 Sco 16-09-1987 Lib 20-06-1998 

30-12-1984 Cap =. 25-12-1985 Sag 11-08-1988 Sco 16-04-1999 

29-01-1985 24-01-1986 Cap —_—- 07-07-1989 10-02-2000 

28-02-1985 23-02-1986 02-06-1990 06-12-2000 

30-03-1985 25-03-1986 28-04-1991 02-10-2001 

29-04-1985 24-04-1986 23-03-1992 i 29-07-2002 

29-05-1985 24-05-1986 16-02-1993 i 25-05-2003 

28-06-1985 23-06-1986 12-01-1994 20-03-2004 

28-07-1985 23-07-1986 08-12-1994 14-01-2005 

Sag 27-08-1985 22-08-1986 03-11-1995 Can 10-11-2005 

Sco 26-09-1985 i 21-09-1986 28-09-1996 Leo 06-09-2006 


Cancer (6y) 22y8m Gemini (4y) 28y7m Taurus (6y) 32y6m_ Aries (8y) 38y5m 


Beginning 03-07-2007 Beginning 01-06-2013 Beginning 11-05-2017 Beginning 10-04-2023 
Ending 01-06-2013 Ending 11-05-2017 10-04-2023 Ending 27-02-2031 
Gem 03-07-2007 Tau 01-06-2013 1 11-05-2017 Tau 10-04-2023 
Tau 30-12-2007 Ari 29-09-2013 07-11-2017 Gem 06-12-2023 
Ari 27-06-2008 Pis 27-01-2014 06-05-2018 Can = 02-08-2024 
Pis 24-12-2008 Aqu =. 27-05-2014 02-11-2018 Leo 30-03-2025 
Aqu = 22-06-2009 Cap 24-09-2014 01-05-2019 Vir 25-11-2025 
Cap 19-12-2009 Sag 22-01-2015 28-10-2019 Lib 23-07-2026 
Sag 17-06-2010 Sco 22-05-2015 i 25-04-2020 Sco 20-03-2027 
Sco 14-12-2010 Lib 19-09-2015 22-10-2020 Sag 15-11-2027 
Lib 12-06-2011 Vir 17-01-2016 20-04-2021 Cap 12-07-2028 
Vir 09-12-2011 Leo 16-05-2016 17-10-2021 Aqu 09-03-2029 
Leo 06-06-2012 Can 13-09-2016 15-04-2022 Pis 04-11-2029 
Can —_ 03-12-2012 Gem 11-01-2017 12-10-2022 Ari 02-07-2030 


Pisces (3y) 46y3m Aquarius (4y) 49y3m Capricorn (3y)  53y2m Sagittarius (12y) 56y2m 


Beginning 27-02-2031 Beginning 11-02-2034 Beginning 21-01-2038 Beginning 05-01-2041 
Ending 11-02-2034 Ending 21-01-2038 Ending 05-01-2041 Ending 03-11-2052 
27-02-2031 12 Pi 11-02-2034 Sag 21-01-2038 Sco 05-01-2041 
28-05-2031 11-06-2034 Sco 21-04-2038 Lib 31-12-2041 

26-08-2031 09-10-2034 Lib 20-07-2038 i 26-12-2042 

24-11-2031 06-02-2035 Vir 18-10-2038 21-12-2043 

22-02-2032 06-06-2035 16-01-2039 15-12-2044 

22-05-2032 04-10-2035 16-04-2039 10-12-2045 

20-08-2032 01-02-2036 15-07-2039 05-12-2046 

18-11-2032 31-05-2036 13-10-2039 i 30-11-2047 

16-02-2033 28-09-2036 11-01-2040 i 24-11-2048 

17-05-2033 26-01-2037 1 10-04-2040 19-11-2049 

15-08-2033 26-05-2037 09-07-2040 14-11-2050 

13-11-2033 23-09-2037 07-10-2040 09-11-2051 


moe mern AM bh wWN = 


— 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 49 


Date of Death (3 Jaimini Chara Dasha #2 


Jaimini Chara Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. * Running age is given for beginning of dasha. 


Scorpio (ly) 68y0m_ Libra (ly) 68yllm Virgo (1ly) 69yllm_ Leo (10y) 80y9m 


Beginning 03-11-2052 Beginning 29-10-2053 Beginning 24-10-2054 Beginning 27-08-2065 
Ending 29-10-2053 Ending 24-10-2054 Ending 27-08-2065 Ending 06-07-2075 
03-11-2052 Sco 29-10-2053 Lib 24-10-2054 Vir 27-08-2065 

03-12-2052 Sag 28-11-2053 Sco 19-09-2055 Lib 23-06-2066 

02-01-2053 Cap  —- 28-12-2053 Sag 14-08-2056 Sco 19-04-2067 

01-02-2053 27-01-2054 Cap 10-07-2057 13-02-2068 

03-03-2053 26-02-2054 05-06-2058 09-12-2068 

02-04-2053 28-03-2054 01-05-2059 05-10-2069 

02-05-2053 27-04-2054 26-03-2060 i 01-08-2070 

01-06-2053 27-05-2054 19-02-2061 i 28-05-2071 

01-07-2053 26-06-2054 15-01-2062 23-03-2072 

31-07-2053 26-07-2054 11-12-2062 17-01-2073 

Sag 30-08-2053 25-08-2054 06-11-2063 Can 13-11-2073 

Sco 29-09-2053 i 24-09-2054 01-10-2064 Leo 09-09-2074 


Cancer (6y) 90y8m Gemini (4y) 96y7m Taurus (6y) 100yom_ Aries (8y) 106y5m 


Beginning 06-07-2075 Beginning 04-06-2081 Beginning 14-05-2085 Beginning 13-04-2091 
Ending 04-06-2081 Ending 14-05-2085 13-04-2091 Ending 02-03-2099 
Gem 06-07-2075 Tau 04-06-2081 1 14-05-2085 Tau 13-04-2091 
Tau 02-01-2076 Ari 02-10-2081 10-11-2085 Gem 09-12-2091 
Ari 30-06-2076 Pis 30-01-2082 09-05-2086 Can = 05-08-2092 
Pis 27-12-2076 Aqu 30-05-2082 05-11-2086 Leo 02-04-2093 
Aqu 25-06-2077 Cap  —- 27-09-2082 04-05-2087 Vir 28-11-2093 
Cap =. 22-12-2077 Sag 25-01-2083 31-10-2087 Lib 26-07-2094 
Sag 20-06-2078 Sco 25-05-2083 i 28-04-2088 Sco 23-03-2095 
Sco 17-12-2078 Lib 22-09-2083 25-10-2088 Sag 18-11-2095 
Lib 15-06-2079 Vir 20-01-2084 23-04-2089 Cap 15-07-2096 
Vir 12-12-2079 Leo 19-05-2084 20-10-2089 Aqu — 12-03-2097 
Leo 09-06-2080 Can 16-09-2084 18-04-2090 Pis 07-11-2097 
Can —_ 06-12-2080 Gem 14-01-2085 15-10-2090 Ari 05-07-2098 


Pisces (3y) 114y4m Aquarius (4y) —117y3m_~=Capricorn (3y) =121ly2m_ Sagittarius (12y) 124y2m 


Beginning 02-03-2099 Beginning 15-02-2102 Beginning 25-01-2106 Beginning 09-01-2109 
Ending 15-02-2102 Ending 25-01-2106 Ending 09-01-2109 Ending 07-11-2120 
i 02-03-2099 12 i 15-02-2102 Sag 25-01-2106 Sco 09-01-2109 
31-05-2099 i 15-06-2102 Sco 25-04-2106 Lib 04-01-2110 

29-08-2099 13-10-2102 Lib 24-07-2106 i 30-12-2110 

27-11-2099 10-02-2103 Vir 22-10-2106 25-12-2111 

25-02-2100 10-06-2103 20-01-2107 19-12-2112 

26-05-2100 08-10-2103 20-04-2107 14-12-2113 

24-08-2100 05-02-2104 19-07-2107 09-12-2114 

22-11-2100 04-06-2104 17-10-2107 i 04-12-2115 

20-02-2101 02-10-2104 i 15-01-2108 i 28-11-2116 

21-05-2101 30-01-2105 i 14-04-2108 23-11-2117 

19-08-2101 30-05-2105 13-07-2108 18-11-2118 

17-11-2101 27-09-2105 11-10-2108 13-11-2119 


moe men An WN = 


—_ 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 50 


Date of Death (3 Sthira Dasha 


Sthira Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. *Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Scorpio (8y) Oyrs.* Sagittarius (9y)  7ys Capricorn(7y)  l6yrs Aquarius (8y) 23yrs 
Beginning 31-10-1984 Beginning 19-09-1992 Beginning 03-08-2001 Beginning 27-06-2008 
Ending 19-09-1992 Ending 03-08-2001 Ending 27-06-2008 Ending 16-05-2016 


Sco 31-10-1984 Sag 19-09-1992, 10 Cap 03-08-2001 11 27-06-2008 
i 28-06-1985 16-06-1993 Sag 01-03-2002 12 Pi 22-02-2009 
23-02-1986 13-03-1994 27-09-2002 i 20-10-2009 
21-10-1986 08-12-1994 25-04-2003 17-06-2010 
18-06-1987 04-09-1995 21-11-2003 12-02-2011 
13-02-1988 31-05-1996 18-06-2004 10-10-2011 
10-10-1988 25-02-1997 14-01-2005 06-06-2012 
07-06-1989 22-11-1997 12-08-2005 01-02-2013 
02-02-1990 19-08-1998 10-03-2006 29-09-2013 
30-09-1990 16-05-1999 06-10-2006 27-05-2014 

Cap 28-05-1991 i 10-02-2000 04-05-2007 Sag 22-01-2015 
Sag 23-01-1992 06-11-2000 30-11-2007 Cap 19-09-2015 


\o 
= 


Ne NWN DH 1 


—_ 
Swe AIAN WN 


—_ 
— 
_ 


Pisces (9y) 3lyrs Aries (7y) 40yrs Taurus (8y) 47yrs Gemini (9y) 55yrs 
Beginning 16-05-2016 Beginning 30-03-2025 Beginning 22-02-2032 Beginning 11-01-2040 
Ending 30-03-2025 Ending 22-02-2032 Ending 11-01-2040 Ending 24-11-2048 


12 Pis 16-05-2016 Lib 30-03-2025 Sco 22-02-2032 Sag 11-01-2040 
11. Aqu 10-02-2017 Sco 26-10-2025 Lib 19-10-2032 Cap 07-10-2040 
10 Cap 07-11-2017 Sag 24-05-2026 Vir 16-06-2033 04-07-2041 
Sag 04-08-2018 Cap 20-12-2026 11-02-2034 31-03-2042 
Sco 01-05-2019 Aqu 18-07-2027 09-10-2034 26-12-2042 
i 26-01-2020 Pis 13-02-2028 06-06-2035 22-09-2043 
22-10-2020 Ari 10-09-2028 01-02-2036 18-06-2044 
19-07-2021 Tau 08-04-2029 28-09-2036 15-03-2045 
15-04-2022 Gem = 04-11-2029 26-05-2037 10-12-2045 
10-01-2023 Can 02-06-2030 21-01-2038 i 06-09-2046 
07-10-2023 Leo 29-12-2030 18-09-2038 i 03-06-2047 
03-07-2024 Vir 27-07-2031 Sag 16-05-2039 28-02-2048 


\o 


= Nw UH ~1 


Cancer (7y) 64yrs Leo (8y) 7oyrs Virgo (9y) 78yrs_ Libra (7y) 87yrs 
Beginning 24-11-2048 Beginning 19-10-2055 Beginning 07-09-2063 Beginning 21-07-2072 
19-10-2055 Ending 07-09-2063 21-07-2072 Ending 15-06-2079 


10 Cap 24-11-2048 11 Aqu = 19-10-2055 1 07-09-2063 Lib 21-07-2072 
Sag 22-06-2049 12 Pis 15-06-2056 03-06-2064 Sco 16-02-2073 
18-01-2050 Ari 10-02-2057 28-02-2065 Sag 14-09-2073 
16-08-2050 08-10-2057 25-11-2065 Cap 12-04-2074 
14-03-2051 05-06-2058 22-08-2066 Aqu = 08-11-2074 
10-10-2051 31-01-2059 19-05-2067 Pis 06-06-2075 
07-05-2052 28-09-2059 13-02-2068 Ari 02-01-2076 
03-12-2052 25-05-2060 09-11-2068 Tau 30-07-2076 
01-07-2053 20-01-2061 06-08-2069 Gem = 25-02-2077 
27-01-2054 17-09-2061 03-05-2070 Can = 23-09-2077 
25-08-2054 15-05-2062 28-01-2071 Leo 21-04-2078 
23-03-2055 10-01-2063 25-10-2071 Vir 17-11-2078 


\o 
— 


=a Ne NW DUH ~1 
SCO MIAMN DWN 
enw UH ~1 


—_ 
—_ 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 51 


Date of Death 


Sadhesati of Saturn 


According to Jyotish Tatva Prakash 


Bes TART weTt fetta a yA: 


Wai Bat salir aa e:eaa Va 


The seven and a half year period during which Saturn transits in the twelfth, first and second 
houses from the birth rashi (Moon sign) is called the Sadhesati of Saturn. 


Your birth rashi is Capricorn therefore the period during which Saturn transits in 


Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius is called Sadhesati of Saturn 


One Sadhesati is made up of three periods of approximately two and half years each, because 
Saturn travels in one rashi for two and half years. 


Normally in the lifetime of a person, the Sadhesati of Saturn occurs three times. 


The following table shows the beginning and end of each Sadhesati. 


Sadhesati Cycle 


First Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Second Cycle of Sadhesati 


First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Third Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Transit 
of Saturn 


Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 


Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 


Sagittarius 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Aquarius 


Beginning 
Date 


16-12-1987 
20-06-1990 
20-03-1990 
14-12-1990 
05-03-1993 
09-11-1993 


26-01-2017 
26-10-2017 
24-01-2020 
12-07-2022 
29-04-2022 
17-01-2023 


07-12-2046 
09-07-2049 
06-03-2049 
04-12-2049 
24-02-2052 
01-09-2054 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Ending 
Date 


20-03-1990 
14-12-1990 
20-06-1990 
05-03-1993 
15-10-1993 
02-06-1995 


20-06-2017 
24-01-2020 
29-04-2022 
17-01-2023 
12-07-2022 
29-03-2025 


06-03-2049 
04-12-2049 
09-07-2049 
24-02-2052 
14-05-2054 
05-02-2055 


Duration 
Yr-Mn-Dy 


2-3-4 
0-5-24 

0-3-0 
2251 
0-7-10 
126-23 


Ashtakavarga 
Saturn Sarva 


25 


25 


27 


HP3 «52 


Date of Death (3 


Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn 


Transit of Saturn in fourth and eighth house from the Moon sign is called Laghu Kalyani Dhayya. 
HeAoh Wears a carga weary | 

Your birth rashi is Capricorn. Therefore, in transit when Saturn is in Aries — the fourth house, 

and in Leo — the eighth house from the Moon, this period is called the Laghu Kalyani Dhayya. 


Transit of Saturn in the fourth, seventh and tenth house from the Moon is called Kantaka Saturn. 
Your Moon sign is Capricorn. Therefore, the period during which Saturn transits in Aries, Cancer 
and Libra is the period of Kantaka Saturn. 


The period of Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn are as follows — 


Transit Begining Ending Interval Ashtakvarga 
of Saturn date Date Yr-Mn-Dy Saturn Sarva. 


First cycle of Dhayya 

Kantaka Saturn in fourth house — Aries 26 
and Laghu Kalyani Dhayya Aries 

Kantaka Saturn in Cancer 30 
seventh house Cancer 


Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in Leo 37 
eighth house Leo 


Kantaka Saturn in Libra 21-12-1984 30 
tenth house Libra 31-05-1985 16-09-1985 
Second cycle of Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in fourth house — Aries 17-04-1998 06-06-2000 
and Laghu Kalyani Dhayya _— Aries 


Kantaka Saturn in Cancer 05-09-2004 13-01-2005 
seventh house Cancer 26-05-2005 01-11-2006 
Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in Leo 01-11-2006 10-01-2007 
eighth house Leo 15-07-2007 09-09-2009 
Kantaka Saturn in Libra 15-11-2011 16-05-2012 
tenth house Libra 04-08-2012 02-11-2014 
Third cycle of Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in fourth house _— Aries 02-06-2027 20-10-2027 
Laghu Kalyani Dhayya Aries 23-02-2028 08-08-2029 
Kantaka Saturn in Cancer 12-07-2034 27-08-2036 
seventh house Cancer 


Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in Leo 27-08-2036 22-10-2038 
eighth house Leo 05-04-2039 12-07-2039 


Kantaka Saturn in Libra 27-01-2041 06-02-2041 
tenth house Libra 26-09-2041 11-12-2043 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 53 


Date of Death (3 Krishnamurti Paddhati - Chart 


Krishnamurti Paddhati 


31 October 1984 * 09:20 hrs. * Delhi, Delhi, India 
Planet R/C _ Sign Degree Nakshatra Pada RL 


Lagna Sco 19:16:22  Jyeshtha Ma 
Sun Lib) 14:21:59 = Swati Ve 
Moon Cap 09:55:33 Uttarashadha 
Mars Sag 24:54:29 — Poorvashadha 
Mercury C Lib 26:58:56 — Vishakha 
Jupiter Sag 15:09:22 —Poorvashadha 
Venus Sco 19:43:54 — Jyeshtha 
Saturn Lib 24:12:05 Vishakha 
Rahu Tau 04:04:38 Krittika 

Ketu Sco 04:04:38 Anuradha 
Uranus Sco 18:10:01 Jyeshtha 
Neptune Sag 05:48:54 Moola 

Pluto Lib 08:45:54 — Swati 


Ju 
Ve Ra Ju 


eH NOR BSB WH SS —& WH BR BR WwW = 


Birth Chart Cuspal Chart 
Ra Ra 


Su Sa Mo Ma! JuAs 
Me Gk Ve 


Bhava Details (Placidus System) 
House cusp Sign Degree Nakshatra Pada RL 


1.First Sco 19:16:22 Jyeshtha Ma 
2.Second Sag 20:46:53. Poorvashadha Ju 
3.Third Cap 25:33:33 Dhanishta Sa 
4.Fourth Pis 00:18:24 Poorvabhadra Ju 
5.Fifth Ari 00:52:22 Ashwini Ma 
6.Sixth Ari 26:31:53 Bharani Ma 
7.Seventh Tau 19:16:22 Rohini 
8.Eighth Gem 20:46:53 Punarvasu 
9.Ninth Can 25:33:33 Ashlesha 
10.Tenth Vir 00:18:24 Uttara Phalg. 
11.Eleventh Lib 00:52:22 Chitra 

12. Twelfth Lib = 26:31:53 Vishakha 


NWN We WD BRR Be We 


Parashara's Light - PE (c) GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 54 


Date of Death (3 Krishnamurti Paddhati - Significators 


Krishnamurti Paddhati 


Significations of the Houses 


House Planets in nak. Occupants _— Planets in nak. Cusp sign lord 
of occupants of cusp sign lord 


. First Me,Sa,Ma,Ju  Ju,Ve Pas 


. Second Mo,Ma ti 
. Third Sa 


. Fourth Ju 
Fifth Ma 
. Sixth Ma 
. Seventh Ve 
. Eighth Me 
. Ninth Mo 


10. Tenth Me 
11. Eleventh Mo,Ra,Ke Su,Sa Ma,Ju Ve 


12. Twelfth Ve Me,Ke Ma,Ju Ve 


Houses Signified by Planets 


Planet Planets as significators of houses 
Very strong Strong Normal Weak 
significator — significator significator — significator 


Sun 11 
Moon 11 
Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Rahu 

Ketu 


NNNN NO 


1S) 


Ruling Planets 


Day lord : Mercury : Aqu 14:49:56 
Lagna lord : Mars Bal. of dasha > Sun Oy 0m 11d 
Lagna Nak Lord : Mercury KP Ayanamsha > -23:32:26 
Lagna Sub Lord : Ketu 
Moon Rashi lord : Saturn 
Moon Nak. lord : Sun 
Moon Sub lord : Venus 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 55 


Date of Death 


Completed : 1 year 
31 October 1985 15:25 hrs. 


Completed : 2 years 
31 October 1986 21:35 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #1 


Completed : 3 years 
1 November 1987 03:43 hrs. 


As Ra Mo 


Ra As 


Ra JuR 


Mo Mun 


Ju 


Gk 


Gk Mun} SaMe | SuKe | Ma Ve 


Me Sa | Su VeR | Mo Ke 


Ve Sa | MeR Su 


As Ke 
Ma 


08:42 Ve 24:49 
Su 14:15 Me 05:58 Sa 04:23 
Mo 13:12) Ju 14:44 Ra 15:31 
YL = Moon Mun Sag 19:10:20 


As 00:20 Ma 


Completed : 4 years 
31 October 1988 09:54 hrs. 


21:50 
14:37 


17:00 Ma 19:41 Ve 


14:15 Me 05:18 Sa 


23:05 Ju 19:24 Ra 27:13 


Saturn Mun Cap 19:10:20 


Completed : 5 years 
31 October 1989 16:01 hrs. 


02:32 
24:51 
08:15 


06:38 Ma 21:13 Ve 
14:15 Me 06:27 Sa 
13:18 Ju 29:13 Ra 
Saturn Mun Aqu 19:10:20 


Completed : 6 years 
31 October 1990 22:06 hrs. 


Ma Mun JuR 


As Mun JuR 


Mo Mun MaR 


Gk Ra Mo 


Ke 


Ke 


Gk Ra 


Sa As Su Ve Me 


Ma Me 
Su 


Ve Sa Mo 


Ve Su 
Me 


07:45 
05:08 
18:43 


As 26:41 Ma 06:14 Ve 
Su 14:15 Me 26:45 Sa 
Mo 00:17. Ju 10:16 Ra 


YL Jupiter Mun Pis 19:10:20 


01:06 
15:33 


As 13:00 Ma 03:44 Ve 


Su 14:15 Me 07:43. Sa 


Mo 03:51 Ju 17:08 Ra 28:43 


YL ~~ Jupiter Mun Ari 19:10:20 


14:01 
26:10 


19:57 Ve 
20:15 Sa 


23:52 
14:15 


18:29. Ra 08:31 


Tau 19:10:19 


13:38 
Venus 


Completed : 7 years 
1 November 1991 04:19 hrs. 


Completed : 8 years 
31 October 1992 10:25 hrs. 


Completed : 9 years 
31 October 1993 16:32 hrs. 


Ke Mun 


Ke Ma 


Gk As Mo Ke 


Mo Ju 
Ve 


Sa 


Me Su Ma | Gk As 


As Mo Gk Me Su 


Ju Su 
MeR Mal Ve 


Ve Ra 


16:34 Ve 27:45 
07:02 


18:27 


14:26 Ma 
14:15 Me 01:15 Sa 
05:42 Ju 15:41 Ra 
Mercury Mun Gem 19:10:20 


Completed : 10 years 
31 October 1994 22:46 hrs. 


28:55 Ve 
07:48 Sa 
10:28 Ra 


As 03:34 Ma 
Su 14:15 Me 
Mo 20:06 Ju 


YL Jupiter Mun Can 19:10:19 


Completed : 11 years 
1 November 1995 04:58 hrs. 


25:26 
29:52 


29:58 Ve 
26:29 Sa 


23:54 
14:15 


04:06 Ra 09:17 


Mun Leo 19:10:19 


24:32 
Venus 


Completed : 12 years 
31 October 1996 11:09 hrs. 


Ke Gk 


Ke Gk 


SaR Ke Mo 


Ma 


Su VeR |Mo Mun 
Ra Ju Me 


Me Ra 
Su Mun As 


Ve Ma 
Ju 


Gk As 


Ju Me Su 


Ve Ra 


20:29 Ve 17:52 
14:15 Me 27:14 Sa 11:57 
04:42 Ju 27:40 Ra 21:01 
Mercury Mun Vir 19:10:20 


02:22 Ma 


03:08 
24:34 
02:40 


22:55 Ma 14:12 Ve 
14:15 Me 00:41 Sa 
28:19 Ju 22:12 Ra 


Mars Mun Lib 19:10:20 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


08:16 
07:44 
13:46 


06:42 Ve 
13:08 Sa 
18:52. Ra 
Sco 19:10:21 


As 13:54 
Su 14:15 
Mo 10:10 
YL Jupiter 


HP3 « 56 


Date of Death 


Completed : 13 years 
31 October 1997 17:17 hrs. 


Completed : 14 years 
31 October 1998 23:22 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #2 


Completed : 15 years 
1 November 1999 05:36 hrs. 


As 


SaR 


JuR SaR Gk 


Ke JuR 
Mo 


Mun 


Su Mo 
Ve Mun) Gk Ma Me 


Me Su Ve 


As Su 


As 09:16 Ma 29:38 Ve Ol1:11 
Su 14:15 Me 25:13 Sa 21:28 
Mo 15:05 Ju 19:09 Ra 24:55 
YL Jupiter Mun Sag 19:10:20 


Completed : 16 years 
31 October 2000 11:44 hrs. 


09:59 Ma 20:45 Ve 14:39 
14:15 Me 04:56 Sa _ 05:41 
25:28 Ju 24:36 Ra _ 05:05 
Saturn Mun Cap 19:10:20 


Completed : 17 years 
31 October 2001 17:49 hrs. 


01:23 17:04 Ve 27:46 
14:15 06:47. Sa = 20:17 
20:35 04:58 Ra 14:41 
Moon Mun Aqu 19:10:21 


Completed : 18 years 
1 November 2002 00:00 hrs. 


Mun SaR JuR Ra 


Mo,Mun) gaR | RaJu 


Ra Mun SaR 


As Ju 


Gk 


MeR Su Ma 


Mo As 
Ke Ve 


Gk Me 
Su Ve 


Me VeR 
Su Ma 


As 22:20 Ma 03:46 Ve 20:40 
Su 14:15 Me 11:36 Sa _ 05:08 
Mo 00:11 Ju 15:43. Ra 24:04 
YL Mars Mun Pis 19:10:20 


19:18 Ma 08:43 Ve 26:03 
14:15 Me 25:59 Sa _ 20:02 
05:52. Jue 21:48 Ra 04:22 
Mars Mun Ari 19:10:19 


18:07 16:20 Ve 13:50 
14:15 05:48 Sa 04:49 
17:08 22:25 Ra 15:11 
Venus Tau 19:10:20 


Completed : 19 years 
1 November 2003 06:07 hrs. 


Completed : 20 years 
31 October 2004 12:16 hrs. 


Completed : 21 years 
31 October 2005 18:26 hrs. 


Ra Mun SaR| 


Gk Ra Mo 


Ra MaR As Gk 


Sa 


Mun 


As Su 


Ve | MeKe 


Ke Su Ve Ju 


Me Ma 


Me JuSu | Ke Mo 


08:04 Ma 13:24 Ve 03:45 
14:15 Me 18:26 Sa 19:17 
12:17. Ju 19:10 Ra 26:37 
Mars Mun Gem 19:10:20 


Completed : 22 years 
1 November 2006 00:34 hrs. 


00:44 Ma 28:50 Ve 08:48 
14:15 Me 29:46 Sa _ 03:21 
20:03 Ju 13:41 Ra 08:12 
Moon Mun Can 19:10:19 


Completed : 23 years 
1 November 2007 06:50 hrs. 


00:35 Ma 23:28 Ve 01:13 
14:15 Me 07:24 Sa _ 16:55 
26:10 Ju 07:14 Ra 19:39 
Mercury Mun Leo 19:10:20 


Completed : 24 years 
31 October 2008 12:59 hrs. 


Gk 


MeR Ju} M&S | Ke Mun 


Su As 
Ju Mun 


Su Ma 


25:19 Ma 11:31 Ve 15:17 
14:15 Me 00:28 Sa 29:58 
08:57. Ju 00:53 Ra 00:34 
Satun Mun Vir 19:10:19 


Ma 17:07. Ve 27:50 
Me 29:28 Sa 12:31 
Ju 25:39 Ra 10:53 
Mun Lib 19:10:21 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


24:40 Ve 21:11 

29:06 Sa 24:34 

22:45 Ra 20:23 
Mun Sco 19:10:21 


HP3 «57 


Date of Death 


Completed : 25 years 
31 October 2009 19:00 hrs. 


Completed : 26 years 
1 November 2010 01:14 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #3 


Completed : 27 years 
1 November 2011 07:22 hrs. 


Mo As 


JuR Ke Gk 


JuR Ke 


Mun Me Su | Sa Ve 


VeR Su 
Me 


pa © | Su As 


As 09:58 Ma 13:01 Ve 26:40 
Su 14:15 Me 11:13 Sa 06:12 
Mo 16:30 Ju 23:43 Ra _ 00:28 
YL = Moon Mun Sag 19:10:19 


Completed : 28 years 
31 October 2012 13:32 hrs. 


03:50 08:31 Ve 
14:15 23:30 Sa 
01:09 00:01 Ra 
Mars Cap 19:10:20 


Completed : 29 years 
31 October 2013 19:43 hrs. 


24:07 Ma 00:44 Ve 
14:15 Me 03:44 Sa 
24:52 Ju 10:51 Ra 
Mars Mun Aqu 19:10:20 


Completed : 30 years 
1 November 2014 01:47 hrs. 


Mo Ke 
JuR 


Ke Mun As Ju 


Ke Mun 


Ju 


Ma 


Gk As 


stg Sa Su Ve 


Ra Su Gk Mo 


MeR Sa 


Su Ve | Ra Me 


As 22:25 Ma 23:26 Ve 09:20 
Su 14:15 Me 07:36 Sa _ 09:01 
Mo 00:43 Ju 21:09 Ra 01:58 
YL Jupiter Mun Pis 19:10:20 


21:06 Ma 15:26 Ve 01:13 
14:15 Me 17:08 Sa _ 19:28 


06:58 Ju 26:23 Ra 13:42 
Mars Mun Ari 19:10:20 


11:07 Ma 09:56 Ve 15:55 
14:15 25:44 Sa 29:47 
23:52 Ju 26:19 Ra 25:04 
Saturn Mun Tau 19:10:19 


Completed : 31 years 
1 November 2015 08:01 hrs. 


Completed : 32 years 
31 October 2016 14:10 hrs. 


Completed : 33 years 
31 October 2017 20:12 hrs. 


Ke Gk Mo Mun 


Gk As 


Ju Ve 
Ma 


As Sa Me Su Ra 


Su Me 
Sa Ve Mo 


Jwsu_ | Ma Ve 


02:17 Ma 28:46 Ve 27:56 
14:15 Me 03:56 Sa _ 10:01 
15:42) Ju 22:39 Ra 06:15 
Mars Mun Gem 19:10:20 


Completed : 34 years 
1 November 2018 02:30 hrs. 


04:31 Ma 29:26 Ve 
14:15 Me 16:36 Sa 


21:04 Ju 16:58 Ra 
Saturn Mun Can 19:10:20 


Completed : 35 years 
1 November 2019 08:40 hrs. 


28:05 11:28 Ve 27:18 
14:15 28:13 Sa 00:28 
26:55 10:28 Ra 26:55 
Moon Leo 19:10:19 


Completed : 36 years 
31 October 2020 14:47 hrs. 


Ra 


MaR Mo Ra 


As 


As 


Sa 


JuMe | VeR Su | Mun Gk 


MeR Ve As 
Mg Ke | Mes} SuMun| Ma 


Ju |GKMun) Mer Su] Ve 


20:29 Ma 26:58 Ve 05:51 
14:15 Me 06:43 Sa _ 10:48 
16:38 Ju 04:13 Ra _ 06:30 
Mercury Mun Vir 19:10:21 


As 10:35 Ma 23:58 Ve 04:58 
Su 14:15 Me 03:29 Sa 21:18 


Mo 06:10 Ju 29:14 Ra 16:10 
YG Mars Mun Lib 19:10:21 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


16:55 Ma 22:19 Ve 09:52 
14:15 Me 02:50 Sa _ 02:02 
11:45 Ju 26:48 Ra = 26:24 
Jupiter Mun Sco 19:10:20 


HP3 « 58 


Date of Death 


Completed : 37 years 
31 October 2021 20:58 hrs. 


Completed : 38 years 
1 November 2022 03:00 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #4 


Completed : 39 years 
1 November 2023 09:14 hrs. 


Ra 


As Gk 


JuR 


Ra Ma 


R Gk 


Ra JuR Mo 


Sa Ju 


Mo 


Mo Mun 
Sa 


SaR Mun 


Ve Mun 


Ke 


Ma Su 


Me 


Me Su 
Ve Ke 


Ke Su 
Ma Me 


08:41 
14:15 
17:38 


As 
Su 
Mo 
YL 


06:32 Ve 
27:42 Sa 
28:28 Ra 


Ma 
Me 
Ju 


Mercury Mun Sag 19:10:21 


01:11 
13:04 
07:46 


Completed : 40 years 
31 October 2024 15:24 hrs. 


27:02 
14:15 
09:15 
Mars 


01:25 
09:18 Sa 
05:31 =Ra 
Cap 19:10:19 


Ma Ve 
Me 
Ju 


Mun 


Completed : 41 years 
31 October 2025 21:24 hrs. 


16:33 
24:28 
19:14 


28:03 
06:20 


19:28 
21:45 Sa 


17:57 Ve 


14:15 


16:35 Ra 00:39 


Mun Aqu 19:10:20 


26:13 
Venus 


Completed : 42 years 
1 November 2026 03:39 hrs. 


As Ra 
Mun 


JuR 


SaR 


Mun 


As 


SaR Mun 


SaR 


Mo Ra 


Ju 


Ra 


Me Ve 


Mo Su 


Ke 


Ma Me 


Su 


Ve 


VeR Su 
MeR 


00:18 
14:15 
02:03 
Venus 


04:27 
Me 02:25 Sa 
Ju 26:19 ‘Ra 
Mun Pis 19:10:20 


Ma Ve 


22:11 
18:41 
12:15 


14:33 
14:15 


08:05 
Saturn 


03:00 
Me 07:54 Sa 
Ju -00:44—s Ra 
Mun Ari 19:10:18 


Ma Ve 


27:55 
01:35 
22:49 


02:03 
15:03 


24:20 Ve 
22:30 Sa 


05:33 
14:15 


00:04 Ra 02:42 


Tau 19:10:20 


02:09 
Moon 


Completed : 43 years 
1 November 2027 09:47 hrs. 


Completed : 44 years 
31 October 2028 15:53 hrs. 


Completed : 45 years 
31 October 2029 22:09 hrs. 


SaR 


Mun 


As Mo 


SaR 


SaR Ke As 


Ke 


Ju 


Gk 


Ve Mo 
Ma As 


Su 


Me 


Ra 


Me Su 


Ve Ju 


Ju Su 


Ve Ra 
Ma Me 


25:09 
14:15 
16:34 


17:26 
26:12 
26:03 


Ve 
Sa 
Ra 


Ma 
Me 
Ju 


05:34 
29:03 
12:17 


Mercury Mun Gem 19:10:20 


Completed : 46 years 
1 November 2030 04:16 hrs. 


10:38 
14:15 


As 
Su 


22:26 
Jupite 


Mo 
YL 


09:56 
02:08 
20:13 


Ve 
Sa 
Ra 


Ma 

Me 

Ju 
r 


Completed : 47 years 
1 November 2031 10:32 hrs. 


10:25 
13:30 
22:20 


Mun Can 19:10:19 


01:06 
28:16 
02:25 


03:14 Ve 
14:43 Sa 
13:43. Ra 
Leo 19:10:20 


24:27 
14:15 
29:10 
Mars 


As 
Su 
Mo 
YL 


Completed : 48 years 
31 October 2032 16:43 hrs. 


SaR Ke 


Ke Mo SaR 


Gk As Ke SaR 


Ma 


Mo 


Ju Ra 


Su Ve 
Me 


Gk As 
Mun 


Ju As 
Ma 


Gk Me 


Su Mun 
Ra 


Ra Su | Ma Mo 


13:49 
14:15 
24:10 
Jupiter 


As 
Su 
Mo 
YL 


23:41 
26:36 
07:35 


Ve 
Sa 
Ra 


Ma 
Me 
Ju 


17:12 
13:12 
13:19 


Mun Vir 19:10:20 


As 
Su 
Mo 
YL 


05:07 
14:15 
06:49 
Jupiter 


21:18 Ve 
Me 05:49 Sa 
Jue 02:54 Ra 
Mun Lib 19:10:21 


Ma 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


28:13 
28:04 
24:38 


22:41 
12:43 
06:13 


06:34 Ve 
05:37. Sa 
00:55 Ra 
Sco 19:10:22 


HP3 « 59 


Date of Death 


Completed : 49 years 
31 October 2033 22:41 hrs. 


Completed : 50 years 
1 November 2034 04:55 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #5 


Completed : 51 years 
1 November 2035 11:05 hrs. 


Ke Gk Sa 


Gk Mo 


JuR 


Ju As 


Sa 


Ke Mun 
Ma 


Ma Mo 


Ra 


Mun MeR Su| Ra Ve 


Ma As 
Su | Me VeR 


Me Su 
Gk As Ve Mo 


28:33 
26:59 
17:38 


Asc 01:16 Ma 
Su 14:15 Me 
Mo 20:44 Ju 


14:33. Ve 
07:17 Sa 
03:14 Ra 


YL Mars Mun Sag 19:10:19 


Completed : 52 years 
31 October 2036 17:08 hrs. 


19:06 Ve 28:24 


10:48 


22:14 Ma 
14:15 Me 26:36 Sa 


16:22 Ju 11:00 Ra 
Mercury Mun Cap 19:10:20 


28:36 


Completed : 53 years 
31 October 2037 23:22 hrs. 


As 12:47. Ma 25:11 Ve 06:11 


Su 14:15 Me 07:24 Sa 24:06 


Mo 27:08 Ju = 22:14 Ra _ 08:50 
YL Jupiter Mun Aqu 19:10:20 


Completed : 54 years 
1 November 2038 05:26 hrs. 


Mo Mun As JuR 


Mun MaR 


Mun Ra Gk 


Ra 


Sa 


Ju 


Gk Ma Su Ve 


Me 


Ve Ke Me Su 


Mo Ke Me ee Sa As 


10:58 
06:53 
18:57 


06:38 Ma 
14:15 Me 19:58 Sa 
02:40 Ju 01:21 Ra 
Jupiter Mun Pis 19:10:19 


01:36 Ve 


09:18 Ve 00:57 


19:11 


As 09:56 Ma 
Su 14:15 Me 01:01 Sa 


Mo 12:34 Ju 05:01 Ra 
YL Moon Mun Ari 19:10:20 


28:18 


As 28:59 Ma 
Su 14:15 Me 07:46 Sa 
Mo 07:44 Ju 03:49 Ra 
YL Mercury Mun Tau 19:10:19 


14:21 Ve 17:49 
01:00 


08:10 


Completed : 55 years 
1 November 2039 11:36 hrs. 


Completed : 56 years 
31 October 2040 17:50 hrs. 


Completed : 57 years 
31 October 2041 23:50 hrs. 


Mo Ra Mun Ma 


As Ra 


Ra 


As Ma 


Mo 


Mun 


Ke Su MeR Sa 


Gk Sa 


Ke Ve Ju Me 


Su Ma 


Me Sa Ke 
SiG Gk Ve 


28:24 
12:26 
18:50 


20:29 Ma 
14:15 Me 27:14 Sa 
17:47. Ju 29:29, Ra 
Mercury Mun Gem 19:10:19 


24:09 Ve 


Completed : 58 years 
1 November 2042 06:08 hrs. 


27:38 Ve 23:10 
23:30 


00:19 


19:47. Ma 
14:15 Me 27:32 Sa 
22:54 Ju 23:30 =Ra 
Moon Mun Can 19:10:20 


Completed : 59 years 
1 November 2043 12:21 hrs. 


15:52 
14:15 
04:43 
Saturn 


17:21. Ve 
00:25 Sa 
17:00 Ra 
Leo 19:10:18 


29:10 
04:17 
11:41 


Completed : 60 years 
31 October 2044 18:24 hrs. 


Ra Mo 


Ra Gk 


As Gk 


Gk 


Ma 


Ke 


As Me 


Ju Ma Su Sa 


Mun Ke 
VeR 


Mo Su Mun 
Ve Me Sa Ke 


Me Sa 
Mun Ma Su Ve 


24:59 
14:50 
23:18 


08:06 Ma 
14:15 Me 12:49 Sa 
28:47 Ju 10:59 Ra 
Saturn Mun Vir 19:10:20 


11:41 Ve 


Ma 04:09 Ve 
Me 24:56 Sa 
Ju: 06:33'—s Ra 
Mun Lib 19:10:21 


06:47 
25:14 
04:40 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


26:52 Ve 11:31 
05:30 


14:51 


As 29:56 
Su 14:15 04:45 Sa 
Mo 12:41 05:00 Ra 
YL ~~ Jupiter Mun Sco 19:10:20 


HP3 « 60 


Date of Death 


Completed : 61 years 
1 November 2045 00:38 hrs. 


Completed : 62 years 
1 November 2046 06:43 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #6 


Completed : 63 years 
1 November 2047 12:54 hrs. 


Gk 


JuR 


JuR Ke 


Ra Mun 


Ve 


Ve Mun] Me Sa Su 


MeR Su 


Gk Ma ‘As Ve 


Mo Sa 


Sa Ra Gk Su Ma Me 


As 26:07 Ma 
Su 14:15 Me 06:58 Sa 
Mo 27:31 Ju 07:57 Ra 
YL Mercury Mun Sag 19:10:21 


18:28 Ve 00:45 
15:44 


24:33 


Completed : 64 years 
31 October 2048 19:09 hrs. 


As 15:43 Ma 13:51 Ve 
Su 14:15 Me 12:32 Sa 


18:28 
25:58 


Mo 19:47 Ju 16:21 Ra 04:12 


YL Venus Mun Cap 19:10:20 


Completed : 65 years 
1 November 2049 01:05 hrs. 


As 11:13. Ma 
Su 14:15 Me 


01:36 Ve 
25:54 Sa 


28:37 
06:16 


Mo 28:59 Ju 27:39 Ra 14:07 


YL = Mars = Mun Aqu 19:10:20 


Completed : 66 years 
1 November 2050 07:17 hrs. 


As Ke JuR 


Mun Ke Gk 


Ke Mo Mun 


Gk 


Ju 


Mo 


As 


Ju 


Ve Ra | Me Su 


Mo Sa Ra Su Me | Ma Ve 


Su Ra VeR 


As Me 


12:20 Ma 
14:15 Me 05:30 Sa 
02:50 Ju 06:12 Ra 
Moon Mun Pis 19:10:21 


04:28 Ve 23:39 
16:42 


24:50 


As 01:53 Ma 
Su 14:15 Me 18:09 Sa 
Mo 19:43, Ju 09:10 Ra 
YL Sun Mun Ari 19:10:19 


14:14 Ve 29:48 
27:20 


06:39 


22:49 Ma 
14:15 Me 29:32 Sa 


05:31 Ve 21:48 


08:14 


10:11. Ju 07:30 ~Ra 
Mercury Mun Tau 19:10:19 


17:18 


Completed : 67 years 
1 November 2051 13:26 hrs. 


Completed : 68 years 
31 October 2052 19:24 hrs. 


Completed : 69 years 
1 November 2053 01:39 hrs. 


Ke Mun 


Ke MaR As 


Sa 


Mo 


Ju Mo 


Me Ve Su Ma Ra 


Gk Ra 


MeR Su Ve Ju 


Ma Su 
Ju 


20:44 Ma 
14:15 Me 07:18 Sa 
19:30 Ju 02:53 Ra 
Saturn Mun Gem 19:10:19 


26:43 Ve 07:23 
19:29 


27:57 


Completed : 70 years 
1 November 2054 07:46 hrs. 


16:17 Ma 09:51 Ve 12:05 
14:15 Me 01:03 Sa _ 01:10 
22:58 Ju 26:46 Ra 08:35 


Saturn Mun Can 19:10:17 


Completed : 71 years 
1 November 2055 13:55 hrs. 


09:14 09:21 Ve 


14:15 29:57 Sa 


00:29 
13:19 


12:32 20:15 Ra 
Mars Leo 19:10:18 


19:14 


Completed : 72 years 
31 October 2056 20:08 hrs. 


Gk Ma 


SaR Mo 


SaR Gk As Ra 


Ra 


Su Ve 
As 


Mun Me 


Me Su 
Mun Ma 


Su Me 


10:53. Ve 
28:51 Sa 
14:23. Ra 
Vir 19:10:18 


19:06 
26:00 
29:53 


22:23 Ve 
10:55 Sa 
10:14 Ra 
Lib 19:10:18 


28:52 
09:15 
10:32 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


09:28 Ve 
23:14 Sa 


24:07 
23:03 


09:12. Ra 
Sco 19:10:18 


21:10 


HP3 « 61 


Date of Death 


~ Vedic Astrology ~ 
The Vedas are the foremost among all ancient books. All the classics of the world have been born out of 
the Vedas. The root verb of the word ‘Veda’ is ‘vid’ meaning knowledge. Through the classics of Indian 
astrology, one can easily acquire knowledge about God while learning about living beings. For this 
reason, astrology is considered to be the eyes of the Vedas. Thousands of years ago, the Saints who were 


knowledgeable about the past, the present and the future, through the power of their meditation and 
yoga, have described in detail in their astrological classics the characteristics, features, appearance and 
nature of the planets and their auspicious and inauspicious effects on the living and non living world. 
The depiction of the position of planets in the zodiac at the time and place of a person’s birth is called 
the Janma Kundali or the Horoscope. The sign which was rising in the eastern horizon at the time of 
birth is called Lagna or the Ascendant. The sign where the Moon is positioned is called the Birth Rashi 
and the constellation in which the Moon is situated is called the Birth Nakshatra. A description of the 
different parts of the Panchanga or the Hindu calendar at the time of your birth are given below: 


Avakhada Chakra 


Lagna 

Rashi (Moon Sign) 
Rashi lord 

Birth Nakshatra 
Nakshatra Charana 
First alphabet of name 
Rashi paya 
Nakshatra paya 
Varana 

Vashya 

Nadi 

Yoni 

Gana 


Indian Calendar 


Scorpio 
Capricorn 
Saturn 
Uttarashadha 
4 

Jee 

Copper 
Copper 
Vaishya 
Chatushpada 
Antya 
Nakula 
Manushya 


Vikram Samvat 2041 

Lunar Month Kartikka 

Birth Tithi Shukla Ashtami 

Yoga Shoolam 

Karana Vishti 

Western Weekday Wednesday 

Astrological weekday Wednesday 

Ghat Chakra 
Ghat Month Vaishakha Ghat Yoga Vaidhriti 
Ghat Tithi 4/9/14 Ghat Karana Shakuni 
Ghat Day Tuesday Ghat Prahar : 4 
Ghat Nakshatra Rohini Ghat Chandra Vrischika 
Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 62 


Date of Death 


~ Nature and Temperament ~ 


1 - She will be hardworking and devoted to her work. She will strive to achieve her mission and 
not relax before accomplishing it. 

2 - She will struggle against difficulties with firmness till the end and leave the final results to 
God. 

3 - She will have a fertile imagination and sharp intelligence. 

4 - She will be very sensitive and emotional. She will have extraordinary and intense powers. 

5 - She has the quality of being self-confident, restraint, self-control, boldness, courage, 
resolution, freedom and aggressiveness etc. 

6 - She will be an extremist if she loves someone, it will be to the height of insanity and if she 
hates someone, she will hate to the extreme of madness. 

7 - She will be a successful critic i.e. she will be skilled at criticizing others but her criticism being 
logical, nobody will counter argue. 

8 - She will not accept criticism about herself and will feel bad if anyone denies her something. 
Opposition may make her angry. She will behave enimically towards her opponents. 

9 - She will be frank and sometimes she will be abusive - she may hurt others by being too direct 
and not consider the other person's feelings. She will be interested in using taunts. 

10 - She will be revengeful and if someone hurts her then she will not forget it easily. 

11 - She will appear to be liberal on the outside but she may be a suspicious person inside. 

12 - She will live a duel life - one for showing the world and another for herself. 

13 - She will be aware about her self-importance and will be an expert at exaggerating her 
importance. 

14 - She will be interested in topics like mystery, external forces, unknown power, death, 


Astrology, tantra-mantra and the science of the sea, chemistry, philosophy and psychology. 

15 - She will be desirous of attaining spiritual love and will be loyal and trustworthy to her dear 
ones. She will be keen to make sacrifices at any cost for her love. 

16 - Characteristics to be corrected - do not pass sarcastic remarks and do not be over critical, avoid 
secretive enmity, control the temper and do not indulge in foul play. 


ws 


Your main Sentence 
I want. 


Your biggest Talent 
Firmness of nature. 


Your biggest Weakness 
Lack of sympathy. 


Your Ambition 
To live a prosperous and secure life. 


HP3 * 63 


Date of Death 


According tethe Shastras 

Saturn is the Lord of Capricorn rashi, a person born under this sign will have beautiful eyes, thin 
waist, lower part of the body will be lean, she will be powerful, will have a firm face, round 
thighs, long neck and ears, black hair, a mole on the neck, round face, dark complexion and tall 
height, she will have patience, will be clever, sympathetic, favored by the king, fortunate. She will 
keep her word, be devoted to her mother, will rear her family, attain happiness, will be outwardly 
religious, knowledgeable in singing, shastras, will be truthful, progressive, will be a religious soul, 
occasionally unsympathetic, famous, slightly short tempered, lacking hatred, not very enthusiastic, 
critical, endowed with physical, mental and spiritual energy, fond of wandering, fond of walking, 
ambitious at work, blessed by son, friends, having a good memory, determined, interested in 
poetry, famous, capable of producing enemies because of her behaviour and enmical friends. She 
will be engrossed with husband, will be infatuated by a man but will be careful about her self 
respect. 

She will be fearful of the cold, suffering from gastric trouble and will suffer from abdominal 
pain and pain in the arms. 


According to the Modern Viewpoint 


A person born in Capricorn rashi will be very ambitious, industrious, skilled, service oriented 
and admired in society for her social work. She will be philosophical and materialistic also. She 
will be patient, hardworking and devoted. She will progress through her own efforts. She will do 
every activity in a systematic manner and will take every step after deep thought. Her personality 
will be contradictory because she will be traditional and modern, atheist and ascetic. She will be 
able to change himself According to the environment. She will be an introvert and will not expose 
what she is planning or thinking. She will take sudden decisions and will surprise everyone with 
that. She will have qualities like self-discipline, frugality in spending money, responsibility, 
maturity, dedication to hard work and sobriety. Her main drawbacks will be egoism, pessimism, 
nervousness and garrulousness. 


Physical Characteristics 


1. She will have a squarish face. 

2. She will have a broad forehead, black eyes, be alert, fearless and have sharp sight. 
3. She will have a balanced, straight and attractive nose. 

4. Her physical personality will be great and impressive. 

5. She will be physically active and energetic. 


HP3 + 64 


Date of Death 


~ Useful Information ~ 


Your main Sentence 
I want. 


Your biggest Talent 
Firmness of nature. 


Your biggest Weakness 
Lack of sympathy. 


Your Ambition 
To live a prosperous and secure life. 
wc 
Lucky Day 
Monday and Tuesday. 


Lucky Colour 
White, Red, Chocolate, Orange and Yellow are lucky. Blue and Green are not lucky. 


Lucky Number 
9 is very lucky. 


Lucky Stone 
Pearl, Yellow Topaz. 


Lucky Upratna 
Sangarative. 


Inauspicious Month and Dates 
July of every year, 1, 12, 22 and 30 of every Month and Tuesday. 


Inauspicious Tithi 
Chaturthi, Navami and Chaturdashi. 


Auspicious Rashi 
A person born under Taurus, Gemini, Virgo and Aquarius will be lucky for him. 
Aries, Cancer, Leo and Scorpio will be unlucky. 
Auspicious Day 
Saturday. 


Inauspicious Period 
Month of Shravana, Shukla-paksha, Dashmi, Tuesday and Jyeshtha Nakshatra will be unfortunate. 


HP3 - 


65 


Date of Death (3 Consideration of Mangala Dosha 


Consideration of Mangala Dosha 
1. According to Agastya Samhita — 


at a OT Uae Tay ay | 
arat ag fare siya eat ATEN 


2. According to Maanasagari — 


at SY OT Uae Say ay |aA 
aan wifes ad: ae ferrari 


3. According to Brihat Jyotishasara — 


we St ages TMA aT Tey Aa: 
WAT Aes Tat vataat faargyati 
4. According to Bhava Deepika — 
ong era a wee oniea cre ar 
war ag ferret: ae Tat arat fearvater 
5. According to Brihat Parashara Hora — 


aM aa TS ait way a set Sar 

WT Sam at a aft aa 7 Aer 
Mangala Dosha or Kuja Dosha occurs when Mars is placed in the first, second, fourth, 
seventh, eighth or twelfth house from the Birth Lagna. 


According to some ancient rishis, Mangala dosha also occurs when Mars is placed in the first, 
second, fourth, seventh, eighth or twelfth house from the Moon, Venus and the seventh lord. 


According to classics — 


wT YRS SI aaher fafa ava 

TqaR aT aa SrraTea Afar: 11 
When Mars is placed in a malefic house from the Lagna, Moon or Venus then the 
dasha of Mars may give inauspicious results according to sages. 


In general practice Mangala Dosha is considered from the Lagna and the Moon. 


Date of Death : In the birth chart of Date of Death Mars is placed in the second house from 
the lagna while in the Moon chart Mars is placed in twelfth house from the Moon. Hence 
Date of Death is Mangalik from the Birth Chart and also Chandra Mangalik from the 
Moon Chart. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 66 


Date of Death (3 Results of Mangala Dosha 


Results of Mangala Dosha 


Mangala Dosha effects the married life of a person in many ways — it creates delays, cheating, 
hurdles and obstacles in getting married. After marriage, there is physical, mental or financial hardship 
for one of the partners or both the partners. It causes mutual disputes, allegations and counter allegations 
and may even lead to disintegration of marriage. If the Dosha is pronounced, one of the partners may 
remain ill or there may be untimely death of either one or both the partners. 

Inspite of this, one should not be scared of Mangala Dosha. Efforts should be made for a person 
having Mangala dosha to marry another person with Mangala dosha, because when the dosha is similar, 
it gets nullified and the couple leads a happy married life. 


Cae Sega AAT AA | AAedsed Yoel wala ger afagat gala 
TATA cut del-aren 1 slaataedt A safer uefa wets: 1 


In the horoscope of both the bride and the groom, if Mars is placed in the eon fourth, seventh, 
eighth or twelfth house from the Lagna, Moon or Venus, then due to equality, Mangala dosha is 
nullified. One attains mutual happiness, wealth, children, health and friends. 


ae ae act tar qardtvad fener | afer det a nfs curt Qaeda 


If a girl having Mangala dosha is married to a boy with Mangala dosha, the dosha is cancelled and 
there will be mutual happiness. 


Remedies to Repel Mangala Dosha 
To ward off the effects of Mangala Dosha following are recommended — 


* One should fast on Tuesdays (sunrise to next day sunrise). During the day, consume liquids without 

salt like tea, coffee, milk, fruit juice and curd. In the evening, draw a triangle with red kumkum (roli) on 
a plate and worship with Panchopachara [red sandalwood, red flowers, incense (dhoop), lighted lamp and 
food consecrated to a deity]. Thereafter, only before sunset, one may consume wheat bread, ghee and 
jaggery (unrefined cane sugar). 

° If the Mangalik Dosha is pronounced, then the Mangala Chandika Strotra should be recited daily for 21 
times for 108 consecutive days. In the morning hours, one should sit facing the eastern direction, light a 
five stroked lamp and worship one's deity (Ishta) and the planet Mars(Mangala) with Panchopachara and 
then recite the following — 


W W Weds ANeasa | sikea faaat wet elas 1 
BTN A alaTeaas 1 YY UT a YY Wrerafsa 
Wiel Wee A AAAS | Mel UN Ata Bde AN I 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 67 


Date of Death (3 


Result of Sadhesati 
Since ancient times, there has been a general belief among the masses that the Sadhesati of Saturn is 
usually painful and problematic from the mental, physical and financial point of view. The moment 
people hear about Sadhesati of Saturn, they get worried and fearful. During the Sadhesati of Saturn the 
person may experience laziness, mental stress, disputes, problems due to ailments and enemies, losses 
due to theft and fire and death of elders in the family might occur. 


Classics describe the results of Sadhesati in the following words — 
ara wey aeafa taga wet ue t ane cgfataesrmd septa fornia 
Tet gevrettarecs ural facta vialarecrerentishe ost gar Ue USAT 
GA: eno faced ahet a MMU Waheafeaaet Weed Garey awa i 
In other words, when Saturn in transit is in the fourth or eighth house from the Moon sign, it is a 
period for illness, quarrels with brothers, foreign stay, hardships and anxiety. During Sadhesati, Saturn 
in the first or second house causes ailments related to the head, heart and legs, fear from the wicked 
and hardships for sons and cattle. 
In general experience it is not seen that the entire period of seven and half years is painful. In fact, 
during Sadhesati, some auspicious events may still occur like, marriage, birth of children, promotion at 
work, business, victory in election and foreign travel. 


Results of First Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (16-12-1987 to 02-06-1995) 
The first cycle of Sadhesati of Saturn is extremely intense and during this period you may 
experience physical pain. There would be obstacles and hardships of various kinds. During this 


period of Sadhesati, there may also be some troubles to your parents. 


Results of Second Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (26-01-2017 to 29-03-2025) 
In the second cycle of Sadhesati, Saturn exerts mediocre influence compared to first cycle. 
During this period you succeed through physical struggle and labour. Despite mental unrest, your 
worldly progress continues. You may suffer separation or loss of parents or other elders in the 
family. 


Results of Third Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (07-12-2046 to 05-02-2055) 
In the third cycle of Sadhesati, Saturn inflicts extremely harsh results. During this period you 
may face tremendous physical hardships. There will be illness and even fear of death. During this 
period only fortunate persons survive. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 68 


Date of Death (3 


Results of the Dhayya of Sadhesati 


It has been generally seen that out of the three Dhayyas of Sadhesati, one gives 
auspicious results. This can be decided according to the number of auspicious lines found 
in the Ashtaka and Sarvashtaka Varga of Saturn. Saturn gives mixed results when Saturn 
has 4 points in the Ashtakavarga and 28 points in the Sarvashtaka Varga. If the points 
exceed this number the results are auspicious and if they fall below this number they are 
inauspicious. If in the birth horoscope, Saturn is strong (exalted or placed in own rashi) or 
it is a Yogakaraka or it is the lord of the Rashi then the bad effects for the person are 
comparatively lesser than for others. 


Results during First Dhayya of Sadhesati — 
First Cycle from 16-12-1987 to 20-03-1990 and from 20-06-1990 to 14-12-1990 
Second Cycle from 26-01-2017 to 20-06-2017 and from 26-10-2017 to 24-01-2020 
Third Cycle from 07-12-2046 to 06-03-2049 and from 09-07-2049 to 04-12-2049 


During this period Saturn transits in the twelfth house from Moon sign and has its full 
aspect on the second, sixth and ninth house. During the first dhayya, Saturn resides on the 
head. There would be fall in mental and physical happiness. There is a possibility of eye 
ailments or weakness of vision and use of spectacles. There may be sudden financial 
losses. There may be unwanted and extra expenditure. You may face financial problems. 
The expenditure will exceed the income. There may be a separation from the family. 


Domestic unrest may prevail. Father may suffer ailments. The relations with your father 
might get tense and fortune might decline a little. Work may be delayed or problems may 
arise. Efforts do not yield results. People are unhelpful and government officials may give 
trouble. Your interest in spiritualism increases. There may be fear of an accident. You may 
wander uselessly. You may also travel to distant places which may cause hardships. This 
position of Saturn is eighth from the fifth house, therefore is inauspicious for children. 


Results during Second Dhayya of Sadhesati — 
First Cycle from 20-03-1990 to 20-06-1990 and from 14-12-1990 to 05-03-1993 
Second Cycle from 24-01-2020 to 29-04-2022 and from 12-07-2022 to 17-01-2023 
Third Cycle from 06-03-2049 to 09-07-2049 and from 04-12-2049 to 24-02-2052 


During this period, Saturn travels in the Moon rashi and its full aspect falls on the 
third, seventh and tenth bhavas. Saturn is placed in the abdominal area during this period. 
Therefore there is a possibility of ailments in the entire middle part of the body. Physical 
energy is affected. The mind does not function and wrong decisions are taken. There may 
be disputes with brothers and with partners in business. One's spouse may suffer physical 
pain or there may be a quarrel with her. Financial problems persist. At the mental level, 
there is a strong rebellion. Useless fears cause anxiety. No work is according to one's 
desires and incomplete work makes one unhappy. Obstacles continue. Family and 
business life is unstable and some relative may die. Travels to distant lands may be 
undertaken, enemies may inflict harm and here may be separation from near ones. 
Diseases, loss of wealth, decline in social standing, shortage of friends and hurdles in work 
are the highlights of this period. 


romani Hu NS TRAP Dy PHOT BHT ae 
First Cycle from 05-03-1993 to 05-03-1993 and from 09-11-1993 to 02-06-1995 


Garand Crrela fram IOANA_IN9) ta 19_N7_9N99 and fram 17_011_9NI2 ta IANZAINIEA 


Date of Death (3 


legs and therefore during this period the legs may suffer from ailments. From the physical point 
of view, there may be weakness. One may feel inactive and physically lazy. Happiness faces 
hurdles, useless disputes occur,unnecessary conflicts with relative arise and they may suffer 
either from a serious ailment or pain equivalent to death. Happiness is destroyed and position 
suffers. Expenses increase. Money comes but it is spent as soon as it comes. Lowly people give 
troubles. Due to its aspect on the eighth house, one's life span is influenced. Due to its sight 
upon the fourth house, domestic happiness, happiness of mother, vehicles and other physical 
comforts face obstacles. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 70 


Date of Death 


Results of Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn 


Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of fourth House (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from to and to 
Second Cycle from 17-04-1998 to 06-06-2000 and _ to 
Third Cycle from 02-06-2027 to 20-10-2027 and 23-02-2028 to 08-08-2029 
When Saturn transits in the fourth house from Moon sign, its full aspect is on the Moon lagna, the sixth 
and tenth house from the Moon lagna. There may be a change of place or transfer. Housing may 
become a problem. Heart problems may occur. Blood pressure may not be stable. There may be 
separation from relatives. Family happiness suffers. There may be opposition both from the public and 
government. Saturn's full aspect is on the tenth house, therefore there are obstacles in the work 
sphere. Saturn's aspect on the Moon lagna causes mental fear. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of seventh house (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from to and to 
Second Cycle from 05-09-2004 to 13-01-2005 and 26-05-2005 to 01-11-2006 
Third Cycle from 12-07-2034 to 27-08-2036 and _ to 
When Saturn transits in the seventh house from the birth rashi its full aspect is on the Moon lagna & 
the fourth and ninth house from the Moon lagna. One's wife may suffer from ailments of the urinary 
organs. Mental anxiety increases. Due to its aspect on the ninth house, there are obstacles in favorable 
fortune, father may suffer, name and honor suffer and there are upheavals in the work-sphere. Due to 
its aspect on the fourth house, mother's health may suffer. Vehicle related problems occur. One may 
have to leave home, stay away for long periods and travel a lot. There may be hardships in travelling. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of eighth House 
First Cycle from to and to 
Second Cycle from 01-11-2006 to 10-01-2007 and 15-07-2007 to 09-09-2009 
Third Cycle from 27-08-2036 to 22-10-2038 and 05-04-2039 to 12-07-2039 
When Saturn transits the eighth house from the Moon, its full aspect is on the second, fifth and tenth 
house from the Moon sign. There is a possibility of long term ailments and accidents. There is a fear of 
being insulted. There may be fear of pain from government servants. There is a chance of change in 
work-sphere. Work/business may suffer. Wealth may be diminish. Children may suffer pain and there 
are possibilities of separation from children. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of tenth house (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from to 21-12-1984 and 31-05-1985 to 16-09-1985 
Second Cycle from 15-11-2011 to 16-05-2012 and 04-08-2012 to 02-11-2014 
Third Cycle from 27-01-2041 to 06-02-2041 and 26-09-2041 to 11-12-2043 
When Saturn transits the tenth house from the Moon sign, its full aspect is on fourth, seventh and 
twelfth houses from Moon. There may be hurdles in business. Your source of income may be upset. 
You may face failure in business or defame due to ill deeds. Unnecessary expenditure may be 
undertaken.There may be disputes or separation from your spouse. There may be worries regarding 
home and wealth. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 71 


Date of Death (3 


Remedies for Sadhesati of Saturn and Dhayya 


To alleviate the ill-effects of Sadhesati of Saturn and Dhayya, the following are prescribed - 
1. Mantra 
(a) 125,000 times recitations of Mahamrityunjaya mantra should be done (daily 10 malas for 125 
days). 


ao Tray ame ate yfeags | sateafta aearyerdelts agar 1 


(b) The following mantra of Saturn should be recited 23,000 times in 21 days - 


do Valea rer sat veg Utaa | wratreserg As so YT PAPE AT: I 
(c) An ancient mantra of Saturn - 


do Tes aga TART | SraTATUSsa at AMT PATTI 


2. Stotra 
The ‘Dashratha stotra’ or the following stotra of Saturn should be recited 11 times - 


aurea: fret ay: Hot Tetsatat aa: 1 GR: yaya we: fees Bea: 11 
wf via-amni atevaerafadt | vAaveated Uist a welfare afacata 
aca Were ara - free sara - 
Tae area fleet Ad | TA ayRU HoT a AA Ft 
Te Uses AM MRT | Ae aaa TH Ae fest 
Tet TEA PAT ANd | Wale Ge eae Ges We a 


3. Gems and Metals 

On Saturday, wear an iron ring which has been made from the bottom of a boat or a horse’s bridle, on 
the middle finger. 

In your horoscope, Saturn is . Wearing a ring of Blue Sapphire of a minimum of 4 ratti made in 
Panchadhatu in the middle finger will be helpful. 

4. Vratta (Fasting) 

Observe Vratta on Saturdays. Worship Lord Saturn with kavacha, stotra and mantra. It is beneficial 
to recite the Saturday Vratta Katha. On the day of Vratta, consume milk, curd and fruit juice during the 
day time and in the evening pay a visit to the temple of Lord Hanuman or Bhairavji. Take sweet halwa 
(sweet dish) made of Urad pulse or salted Khichari (dish prepared from rice and Urad pulse boiled 
together). 

5. Medicine 

Every Saturday bathe with surma, black sesame seeds, saunf (anise), nagarmotha (the sweet smelling 

grass Cyprus) and lodha (the tree Symploce racemoze). 

6. Donation 

To appease Lord Saturn, donate urad (a type of pulse), oil, sapphire, sesame seeds, kulathi (a horse 
bean), buffalo, iron, money and black clothes. 

7. Other Remedies 

(a) Wrap a raw cotton thread seven times round a peepal tree (the holy fig tree) on a Saturday evening 
and recite the mantra for Saturn. Light a lamp with mustard oil under the tree and seek forgiveness for 
any misdeed done knowingly or unknowingly in the past. 

(b) Measure a black thread equal to 19 times the length of your hand and wear it like a garland. 

(c) Ruse: On Saturday bury in an un-tilled place a sweet made of urad pulse, sesame, oil and jaggery. 
(d) For the appeasement of Saturn, on a Saturday wear the tail of a Scorpion wrapped in a black 
thread. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 72 


Date of Death 


- Recommendations for Gem Stones 
The wearing of gems is an important consideration that can potentially change and alter many areas 


of your life. As this is a classical science, we give below the views of the ancient Indian 
astrologers. 


Tift AO: GTS Yeas vikeiaaer @ faga Fofer: ares wre | 

aes UT ae Veet Faieraion afed Wedges 11 
“Tl Planets and how to propitiate them by bestowal of gems: When the Sun is hostile, a pure ruby; when the 
Moon, a good pearl; when Mars, a coral; when Mercury, an emerald; when Jupiter, a topaz; when Venus, a 
diamond, when Saturn, a (blue) sapphire; when Rahu, a gomedha; when Ketu, a cat’ s-eye, should be given.~ 
Mani Mala, Part II, 79 


Tt TVS sg AATeT | AUT ATTA TASTUETT 
fret yi 3: ~ haf : =i 
“The wearing of gem studded ornaments brings respect, fame, longevity, wealth, happiness, strength and 
fruition. Over and above this, it wards off evil astral influences, makes the body healthy, removes misery and 
fortune and washes away sin.’— Mani Mala, Part II, 121-122. 


Life Stone 
The gem for the lagna lord is a good stone to wear at all times. It gives health, vitality, general 
success and wellbeing. Wearing it supports all other areas of life. Your lagna lord is Mars, 
therefore wearing Mars’ stone will be beneficial. The stone for Mars is Red Corel. 


“A clear, soft, cool, and finely red coral is auspicious, conducive to prosperity and is an antidote to 
poisoning.” — Mani Mala, Part I, 356. 


“The coral is sour, sweet, specific for cold and biliousness, nutritious, and grace imparting; and the wearing 
of it is very beneficial to women.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 66. 
Wearing instructions: The gem for Mars is best set in silver, though if the desire is to increase one' s 
courage, strength and bodily warmth then it should be set in gold. If a ring, it should be worn on the ring 
finger, or index finger. Begin to wear it on a Tuesday, one hour after sunrise. 


Mantra to purify and energize Mars' gem: 


3% Ff ANH AA: “Aum ang Angarakaya namah.” 


HP3 « 73 


Date of Death (3 


Punya (Lucky) Stone 


The gem for the fifth lord is particularly lucky, while also being good for creative energy, 
and children. Your fifth lord is Jupiter, therefore wearing Jupiter's stone will be beneficial. 
The stones for Jupiter are : Yellow Sapphire, Yellow Topaz, Citrine. 


“The (yellow) topaz is sour, cool, and curative of abnormal oxidation, causes appetite, 
and brings fame, wealth and wisdom.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 65. 
Wearing instructions: The gem for Jupiter is best set in gold. Ifa ring, it should be worn 
on the index finger. Begin to wear it on a Thursday one hour before sunset. 
Mantra to purify and energize Jupiter's gem: 


se F FSCS FA: | “Aum brim Brihaspataye namah.” 


Bhagya (Fortune) Stone 


The gem for the ninth lord particularly brings fortune. Your ninth lord is the Moon, 
therefore wearing the Moon's stone will be beneficial. The stones for the Moon are : Pearl 
and Moon Stone. 


“The wearing of such pearls leads to longevity and wealth, and purges the wearer of 
every sin.” — Mani Mala, Part I, 307. 


“The pearl is sweet in taste, very cool, and specific for eye disease, cures poisoning and 
eye disease and brings strength and vigor to weak limbs.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 63. 


“All the above categories of pearls are extremely valuable, and bestow sons, wealth, 
popularity, renown on the wearers; and they are destroyers of disease and grief and 
bestowers of desired objects on kings.” — Brihat Samhita. 


Wearing instructions: The gem for the Moon is best set in silver. If a ring, it should be 
worn on the ring finger. Begin to wear it on a Monday evening. 


Mantra to purify and energize the Moon's gem : 


3% Ut Aaa Aa: “Aum som Somaya namah.” 


General Instructions 


Generally it is always best to purchase the best quality gemstones that you can afford. 
The stones of lesser potency have been found to work very well and are less costly, though 
they need to be worn in a larger size in order to give the same strength of effects. 


To derive the best effects of a gem, begin to wear it after cleansing it in fresh milk and 
rinsing it in purified water. Then, holding and concentrating on the gem, perform the 
mantra given 108 times. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 74 


Date of Death (3 


Gems should generally be worn on the right for men and the left for women. Gems may be 
worn either on the appropriate finger as a ring, or on the upper arm as a bangle. Alternately the 
gem can be worn around the neck, but this has the disadvantage of the gem swinging and not 
maintaining skin contact. Most important is that the Gem is set so as to touch the skin. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 75 


Date of Death (3 


Applicable Benefic Yogas 
Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 


Sumukha Yoga 


The lord of the 2nd house is in a Kendra aspected by benefics, or benefics occupy the 
2nd house (Sarvartha Chintamani 3/26). 


Result : The person will have a happy and attractive face. 


Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Anapha (Guru) Yoga 
Jupiter occupies the 12th house from Moon. 


Result : This variety of Anapha Yoga shows that the person is endowed with strength, 
virtue, energy, learning, honored by the king, a poet, wealthy, opposed to his/her own 
near and dear ones. If Guru aspects the 6th house, the person is contented and happy. 


Veshi Yoga 


A planet, other than Moon, occupies the 2nd house from Sun. Look out for the variety 
with the same name. 


Result : The person will be truthful, lazy, kind-hearted, virtuously disposed, with 
squinted eyes, having a tall stature and a balanced outlook, with good memory and 
ordinary wealth. 


Veshi Yoga (Shukra) 
Venus occupies the 2nd house from Sun. 


Result : This variety of Veshi Yoga shows that the person is renowned, respectable, 
with many virtues, and intrepid. 


Lagna Papa-Kartari Yoga 
Natural malefics occupy 2nd and 12th house from Lagna. 


Result : The person might have criminal tendencies, ill-health, unwholesome food, 
excessive sexual urge, intention to grab the wealth of others. 


Yogas related to Charity 
Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Anapha Yoga 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 76 


Date of Death (3 


A planet, other than Sun, occupies the 12th house from Moon. Look out for the variety with the same 
name. 


Result : The person will be equivalent to a king, healthy, affable, renowned, an orator, capable, virtuous, 
given to varied material comforts, pleasant in looks and happy. 


Parvata Yoga 


Benefic planets occupying the Kendras, and 6th and 8th houses either vacant or 
occupied by benefics only. 


Result : The person is renowned, illustrious, fortunate, wealthy, an orator, charitable, 
leader of a town or a city, learned and very lustful. 


Kahala Yoga 
Lords of the 4th and the 9th in mutual Kendras, and the lord of Lagna is strong. 


Result : The person is aggressive, courageous, ignorant, commander of an army, owner 
or ruler of several villages. The person has material possessions, and ownership of 
land, houses and vehicles. 


Kahala Yoga 


The 4th lord is exalted or in its own house, associated with or aspected by the 10th 
lord. 


Result : The person is aggressive, courageous, ignorant, commander of an army, owner 
or ruler of several villages. The person has material possessions, and ownership of 
land, houses and vehicles. 


Shankha Yoga 
The 5th Lord and the 6th lord in mutual Kendras, and the Lagna lord is strong. 


Result : The person is kind-hearted, virtuous, learned, blessed with a spouse and 
children, morally sound, versed in sacred scriptures, owns lands, enjoys prosperity and 
lives up to 81 years. The person has the authority to discipline or punish. 


Surya-Budha Yoga 
Sun and Mercury are conjunct in the same house (also known as Budhadhiya Yoga). 


Result : The person is sweet tongued, clever, scholarly, virtuous and will have 
learning, wealth, progeny and self-control, earns wealth by serving others. Also said to 
be highly intelligent, skillful in all works with a good reputation (Still a very common 
Yoga). 


Mangal-Guru Yoga 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 77 


Date of Death (3 


Mars and Jupiter are conjunct in the same house. 


Result : The person is learned, revered, wealthy, very intelligent, skillful lecturer, a sculptor, skilled in 
the use of weapons, memorizes by mere listening, a leader. 


Yogas related to Education 


Veda Vedanga Yoga 
Jupiter is exalted or in own sign in the 2nd house (Bhavartha Ratnakara 2/2/7). 


Result : The person will aquire the highest spiritual knowledge (Veda) and 
understanding of it's unfoldment into relative existence (Vedanga). 


Yogas related to Profession 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Sun is in the 10th house from Lagna, or Moon (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : The profession or social status of the person might be scented articles, gold, 
wool and medicines, or earning linked to or through his/her father. The person could be 
a medical person or assistant to medical practices (Sun). 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Sun rules the 10th house from Moon or Lagna (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession connected Sun, likewill come to the 
person through scented articles, gold, wool and medicines or medical practices. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Moon rules the 10th house from Sun or Lagna (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession connected Moon, connected to 
agriculture, watery products, coral, pearls, shells, and dependence upon women. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Mercury is in the 10th house from Lagna or Moon (Brihat Jataka). 
Result : The profession or social status of the person might be writing, mathematics, 
poetry and fine arts. The person could become a painter, sculptor, engraver, architect, 
mechanic or scent-maker. The person might also gain income through a friend 
(Mercury). 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 78 


Date of Death (3 


Karmajiva Yoga 


Mercury aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession connected to Mercury, like a 
mechanic, painter, sculptor, engraver, architect or scent-maker. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Venus rules the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 
Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession of Venus, connected to gems, 


silver, cows, buffaloes, or anything of great value or sensory pleasure or relates to 
beauty. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
The lord of the Navamsha occupying the 10th lord is Saturn (Brihat Jataka 10/3). 
Result : Wealth and livelihood will come to the person through labor, such as carrying 
loads, and low trades that go against family tradition (classical text also mention an 


executioner for this combination). Source of income might come through a servant 
(Saturn). 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Saturn is in the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : The profession or social status of the person might be connected to labor, such 
as carrying loads, and low trades that go against family tradition, service, confinement 
etc. (Saturn) 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Saturn aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession connected to Saturn, like labor, such 
as carrying loads, and low trades that go against family tradition. 


Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 
Yogas related to Children 
Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 79 


Date of Death (3 


Matrudirgayur Yoga 
The lord of the Navamsha sign holding the 4th house lord is strong and is located in a 
Kendra from Lagna or Moon (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/132). 


Result : The mother of the person will have a long life. 


Bhratruvriddhi Yoga 


The 3rd house lord, or Mars, or the 3rd house itself is conjunct or aspected by benefics 
and strong in other ways (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/16). 
Result : The person will have good luck with his brothers (or siblings) who will be very 


well off. 


Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Sarira Sukhya Yoga 


The Lagna lord, Jupiter or Venus are placed in a Kendra (Sarvartha Chintamani 


2/98). 
Result : Longevity, wealth from and alignment with political powers are bestowed upon 


the person. 


Dehasthulya Yoga 


The Lagna is in a watery sign in conjunction with benefics or the Lagna lord must be a 
watery planet (Sarvartha Chintamani 2/87). 


Result : The person will have a stout body. 


Purnayu Yoga 
The 6th or the 12th lord are placed in the 6th house or in the 12th house or the 8th 


house or the Lagna. 
Result : This combination is an indication of a long life span up to 100 years. 


Special Astrological Yogas 
Yogas related to Wealth 


Dhana Yoga 
There is a relationship between the Lagna lord on the one hand and the 2nd, or 5th, or 


9th or 11th lord on the other hand. 


Result : The person will be wealthy. 


HP3 « 80 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Date of Death (3 


Svaveeryaddhana Yoga 


The 2nd lord occupies a Kendra or Trikona from the Lagna lord, or a naturally benefic 
2nd lord is exalted or conjunct an exalted planet (Sarvartha Chintamani 3). 


Result : The person will accumulate his wealth through his own effort. 


Akhanda Samrajya Yoga 


One of the lords of the 11th, 9th or the 2nd houses are in a Kendra from Moon, while 
Jupiter is the lord of 2nd, 5th or the 11th house (Jyotisharnava Navanitam 5/30). 


Result : The person will have a wide kingdom. 


Vahana Yoga 


The lord of the 4th house is exalted and the lord of the exaltation sign is in a Kendra or 
a Trikona (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/152). 


Result : The person will come to own vehicles and other material comforts. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Raja Yoga 


A mutual relationship exists between the Lagna lord on the one side and the lord of the 
4th or 5th or 7th or 9th or 10th on the other. 


Result : This elevates the status of the individual in terms of success, recognition and 
status. 


Raja Yoga 


Ketu is in a Kendra or Trikona, conjunct a Kendra lord or Trikona lord (Brihat 
Parashara Hora Shastra 36/17). 


Result : Brings forth king. Leads to kingship or royal status (In modern context this 
means a high governmental status). 


Raja Yoga 


The lord of or the planet that would be exalted in a sign holding a debilitated planet is 
in a Kendra from Moon or Lagna (Sarvartha Chintamani 9/13). 


Result : The person will become a ruler or equal to a ruler of high rank. 


Raja Yoga 
One of the lords of the 11th, the 9th and the 2nd houses, is in a Kendra from Moon, 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 81 


Date of Death 


while Jupiter is the lord of either 2nd, 5th or 11th house (original source unknown). 


Result : The individual becomes a great man or a respected ruler. 


Viparita Sarala Raja Yoga 
The Sth lord is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/65). 


Result : This confers learning, longevity and prosperity. The person will be successful 
in all ventures, conquerer of foes and a great celebrity. 


Bhagya Yoga 
Lagna, 3rd house or the 5th house hold a strong and a benefic planet, which aspects 
the 9th house (original source unknown). 


Result : The person will enjoy extreme fortune, wealth and pleasures. 


Raja Sambandha Yoga 


The 10th lord from Lagna is conjunct or aspected by the dispositor of the 
Amatyakaraka or conjunct or aspected by the Amatyakaraka itself (Brihat Parashara 


Hora Shastra 42/1). 


Result : The person will become a chief in the kings court (in modern context: in a high 


governmental position). 


Yogas related to Cancellation 


Shakata-Bhanga Yoga 
Jupiter, not located in a Kendra, occupies 12th Dusthana from Moon and aspects the 
6th house. 
Result : This cancels most of the negative from Shakata Yoga and the person is blessed 
with comforts. 


Nicha-Bhanga Raja Yoga 
The debilitated planet is conjunct an exalted planet. 


Result : This Yoga indicates cancellation of the state of debilitation of a planet and 
yielding benefic results instead, being elevated to a Raja Yoga status. 


Arishta-Bhanga Yoga 
Strong Mercury, Jupiter or Venus located in any Kendra. 


Result : This combination cancels or neutralizes Balarishta Yoga which threatens death 
to the newborn child. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 82 


Date of Death (3 


Applicable Mixed Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Buddha-Shani Yoga 
Mercury and Saturn are conjunct in the same house. 


Result : The person is of sickly constitution, learned, wealthy, provides sustenance to 
many, quarrelsome, fickle-minded, adept in several arts, disobedient to elders, a 


cheater. 


Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Musala Yoga 
If Lagna is in a Sthira sign and several planets also in Sthira signs then the effects of 
Musala yoga can be felt. 
Result : One born in this Yoga is proud, learned, wealthy, liked by ruler, famous, of 
stable nature, and blessed with several sons. He/she is trustworthy, has stability and 
durability, is fixed and determined. However, the person might be obstinate, unable to 
take quick decisions and might have difficulty adapting to change. 


Anapha (Mangal) Yoga 
Mars occupies the 12th house from Moon. 


Result : This variety of Anapha Yoga indicates that the person is a leader of a band of 
thieves, haughty, wrathful, bold, praiseworthy, good-looking, and hurtful to everyone 
including the person's mother. 


Surya-Shani Yoga 
Sun and Saturn are conjunct in the same house. 


Result : The person is skilled in metallurgy, engaged in religious pursuits, bereft of 
wife and children, learned, dominated by enemies, follows tradition. 


Yogas related to Profession 
Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 
Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 
Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Madhyayu Yoga 
The Lagna and the Moon, both occupy a Dvisvabhava sign, or one in a Chara sign and 
the other in Sthira sign. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 84 


Date of Death (3 


Result : This combination is an indication of a medium life span up to 70 years. 


Mukabadhiramdha Yoga 
Sun in the 12th house (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14). 


Result : The person will experience some harm in the right eye. 


Mukabadhiramdha Yoga 
Either Venus or Mars in the 2nd or the 12th house (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14). 


Result : The person is likely to suffer from ear problems. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Uttamadi (Dhana) Yoga 
Moon is in a Kendra (1,4,7,10) from Sun. 


Result : The person's wealth, learning, efficiency and fame will be (alpa) ordinary. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 * 85 


Date of Death (3 


Applicable Malefic Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Jada Yoga 


The lord of the 2nd house is placed in the 10th along with malefics or the 2nd house is 
occupied with Sun and Mandi or Lord of the 2nd house conjunct Sun or Mandi 
(Sarvartha Chintamani 3/34). 


Result : The person becomes nervous and loses the balance of his mind when speaking 
in front of a group of people. 


Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Shakata Yoga 
Jupiter, not located in a Kendra, occupies 12th Dusthana from Moon. 


Result : The person is destitute, indigent, ever toiling, disliked by all, with ever 
fluctuating fortunes. The person is opposed to one's kith and kin (look for 
Shakata-Bhanga Yoga). 


Mriti Yoga 
The lord of the 3rd house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/60). 


Result : The person will be annihilated by his/her enemies, devoid of (younger) 
siblings, shame, strength and wealth. The person will be tired by indulging in unseemly 
activity and will be of excitable temperment. 


Kuhu Yoga 
The lord of the 4th house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/61). 


Result : The person will be bereft of mother, conveyances, friends, happiness, 
ornaments, relations. The person will be unemployed and without a place of living 
having lost the one owned by him/her associating with low people of the opposite sex. 


Duryoga 
The lord of the 10th house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/67). 


Result : The person will be of no importance, a traitor and very selfish, only earning to 
satisfy own hunger, constantly away from home and lives abroad. 


Surya-Buddha-Shani Yoga 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 86 


Date of Death (3 


Sun, Mercury and Saturn are conjunct in the same house. 
Result : The person is rejected by friends and relatives, wicked, jealous, behaving like eunuchs, suffers 


humiliation. 


Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 
Yogas related to Children 
Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 


Bandhubhisthyaktha Yoga 
The lord of the 4th house is connected to malefics or holds bad Shasthiamshas or is 
placed in enemy or debilitation signs (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/68). 


Result : The person will have trouble with his close relatives, due to misunderstanding 
or be deserted by them. 


Matrunasa Yoga 
Moon is hemmed between malefics, or conjunct or aspected by malefics (Sarvartha 
Chintamani 4/133). 


Result : The mother of the person dies early. 


Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Krisanga Yoga 
The Lagna lord is placed in a dry sign or a sign owned by a dry planet (Sarvartha 
Chintamani 2/83). 
Result : The person will have physical pains and suffering, possessing a lean or 
emaciated physique. 


Durmukha Yoga 
Malefics are placed in the 2nd house and it's lord is debilitated or conjunct a malefic 
(Sarvartha Chintamani 3/27). 
Result : The person will have a deformed and unattractive face, either from birth or by 
accident. His facial characteristics may easily display negative emotions. 


Vishaprayoga Yoga 
The 2nd house holds or is aspected by malefics and the 2nd house lord is in a cruel 
Navamsha aspected by a malefic (Sarvartha Chintamani 3/143). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to be poisoned by others. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 87 


Date of Death (3 


Arishta Matibhramana Yoga 


The lord of the 6th house is conjunct or aspected by a malefic, the 6th house itself 
holds or is aspected by malefics, Mercury and Moon are in Trik houses or aspected by 
malefics (Major S.G. Khout). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to the development of a mental disorder. 


Arishta Rajabhrashta Yoga 


Arudha Lagna lord is conjunct the Arudha Dvadasha (Upapada) (original source 
unknown). 


Result : The person is in danger of suffering a high fall. 


Hillaja Netradosha Yoga 


Mars is in a malefic sign or in a Kendra receiving an aspect from another malefic 
planet (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14/67). 


Result : The person will be vulnerable to blindness. 


Alpayu Yoga 


Lagna lord and the Sth house lord, both occupy a Sthira sign, or one in a Chara sign 
and the other in Dvisvabhava sign. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 
32. 


Alpayu Yoga 


The Lagna and the Hora Lagna, both occupy a Sthira sign, or one in a Chara sign and 
the other in Dvisvabhava sign. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 
32. 


Alpayu Yoga 
Afflicted 5th house, afflicted 8th house, and afflicted 8th lord. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 
32. 


Alpayu Yoga 
The 3rd lord and Mars are combust or afflicted by malefics. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 88 


Date of Death (3 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 32. 


Alpayu Yoga 
The 8th lord and Saturn, are combust or afflicted by malefics. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 
32. 


Yogaristha (Yogaja Ayu) Yoga 
The lords of Lagna and the 8th house are malefics, and the 12th and the 6th houses are 
not occupied by Jupiter (Jataka Parijata). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to an early death of 18 years of age (keep in mind 
that this is an isolated indication that should be supported by other indications to come 
true - also look out for Aristha-Bhanga Yoga for the cancellation of this effect). 


Yogas related to Wealth 


Daridra Yoga 
The lord of the 11th house is in a Dusthana (the 6th, 8th or 12th houses). 


Result : The person will attain huge debts, suffer poverty, will have hearing troubles, 
have a mean temperament, and indulge in sinful and unlawful activity. 


Daridra Yoga 
The lord of the 11th house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/68). 


Result : Incoming debts will constantly be the way of life for the person, suffering from 
diseases of the ear, deprived of good siblings, engaged in cruelity and sins, indecent in 
speech and work like a menial. 


Daridri Yoga 


The 10th house lord is in the company of the lord of the 3rd house, and is weak, 
debilitated or combust (Jyotisharnava Navanitam 2/296). 


Result : The person will be fond of begging. 


Daridra Yoga 


Lord of Lagna associated with a Dusthana lord or with Saturn, unaspected by 
benefics. 


Result : The person might suffer from poverty, misery and ill-health. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 89 


Date of Death (3 


Daridra Yoga 


Navamsha lord of Moon is associated with a Maraka planet or located in a Maraka 
house. 


Result : The person might suffer from poverty, misery and ill-health. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Bandhana Yoga 
Malefics in Scorpio Lagna (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14/57). 


Result : This configuration makes the person vulnerable to confinement or 
imprisonment: "underground". 


Kulapamshala Yoga 


Benefics and malefics are placed in Kendras, Lagna lord without an aspect from Moon 
(Sambu Hora Prakasha). 


Result : The person will live in a distant land, be discarded by his/her family, 
vulnerable to poverty and the loss of wife and children. 


Kulapamshala Yoga 
Benefics only in Saggitarius Navamsha (Sambu Hora Prakasha). 


Result : The person will live in a distant land, be discarded by his/her family, 
vulnerable to poverty and the loss of wife and children. 


Dasi-prabhava Yoga 


Sun and Moon are debilitated, or they are both in opposition with Saturn (Sambu Hora 
Prakasha 14/65). 


Result : The person might be the child of a female slave or a maid. 


Yogas related to Cancellation 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 90 


Date of Death 


Life Interpretation Report for Date of Death 


You possess a generous portion of personal grace, a pleasing manner, and a normally 
friendly demeanor. You are an outgoing individual. You have a quiet, inward sense of 
humor. You are jolly. You are a person with a cheerful temperament, bordering on the 
mischievous side. 


Outwardly appearing liberal and tolerant, inwardly you are suspicious. You are affectionate 
by nature. You are comfortable in realms that most people fear to tread in. 


You have a serious disposition. You are persistent. You are humble. You are dependable, 
and loyal. You have great patience in your inner heart, and are diligent. You are a calm 
person. You are a quiet person. You are subtle. 


You are pure and well intentioned, but sometimes get carried away into too many worries or 
too much talking. There is an artistic flair to your personality and a deep awareness of 
beauty. You are an ethical person. Despite all difficulties, you always try to honor and uphold 
your word and promises. You are sensitive and intuitive, and you might often perceive and 
illuminate certain things that appear to be completely hidden to others. You are resourceful, 
have physical strength and a crafty mind. You are purposeful, economical, conscious of your 
duty, and prudent. You are earthy. 


You are archetypally active, not passive. You take initiatives confidently. You are stubborn 
in your interactions with others. You are very persevering once you really want something. 
You can be very persuasive, but in a friendly and soft way. You are courageous. You are an 
enterprising person. You make it a priority to do things in your own way, with your own 
style, to give you the comfort of being free of stress. You are anxious about achieving the 
recognition that you are entitled to. 


You tend to prevail in battles or contests, but you get involved in more than your share of 

them. You have a strong influences on the opinions of others, and they on you. You have a 
very strong influence on the actions of your close friends, partners, or spouse. You have a 
heroic nature. 


You tend to simplify your life by getting rid of any unnecessary clutter. “Down with the 
bourgeoisie!” may be your motto. You feel that interaction is wasting your time and energy. 
You are drawn to secluded or isolated places. You will only show your most lively and 
humorous side in secluded and private situations. 


The key against these difficulties is to be self-less in your undertaking, and not to allow any 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 91 


Date of Death 


egoism or selfishness to guide any of your aspirations. You are self contained and cold at times. Because 
you can be very rigid in your views and opinions, you could become manipulative, scheming, and 
unscrupulous. Your intelligence may not be prodigious. You are somewhat naive and do not always know 
how to guard against secret enmities or jealousy coming from others. 


You will either take to self-realization or will be secretly motivated by the desire for revenge and 
intrigue. Your true personality is not revealed to others. You often avoid facing personal challenges, 
attempting to diffuse or escape them. You seldom show your true self to others. You can be evasive and 
slick. You may be immoral occasionally. At times, you may feel lazy and lack the physical or nervous 
energy needed to act in the world. You manipulate others according to your will. 


You are an aggressive person. You are open to a fault. 


You are prone to anxiety. There may be a hesitation to act in some of your endeavors. You can be 
somewhat withdrawn, and sometimes to the extent that you feel invisible to others. You prefer to avoid 
the limelight. You may have some inadequacies or a lack of courage. You may be lacking in 
self-confidence. You have a tendency to evaluate yourself only according to feedback from the 
environment. You may lack self-esteem. The worst things may happen to you when you allow yourself to 
become completely passive, in a kind of fatalistic surrender. Perhaps you are too dependent on the 
opinions of others. 


You are not idealistic but neither are you mindful of obstacles. Staying at home too much can bring on 
boredom. Too many responsibilities will have an oppressive influence on you. You may be a disturbed 
person. Your attitude and feeling about a thing sometimes changes unexpectedly, and is hard to control. 
You could possibly be forgetful and lack concentration. Sometimes the desire to please can distract you 
from focusing on your own goals. 


You have a passion that runs cold and deep for connecting significantly with others. Learning to allow 
losses to occur and refraining from exacting revenge, you will see yourself regaining all that you lose. 
Conquering your senses through gaining expertise in your field of activity or study is an ongoing theme 
in life. Certain excesses may lead to humiliating consequences. 


You may find that making others happy gives you comfort and contentment. Your best way of attaining 
happiness and inner contentment may be through selfless service to those who are in need. There is not 
much happiness found in material gains or family life. Excessive sexual appetite, rapacious material 
acquisition or unscrupulous grabbing for objects of ambition lead to only temporary satisfaction, as the 
objects of your desires all too often wither, dissolve, or bite back. You can run into trouble or barriers 
from government authorities that get in the way of finding your happiness. 


= 


You will often display an uplifting smile, which makes you very attractive to others. Your body is large. 
You have medium stature. Your body has a predisposition to being plump. You are likely to be 
overweight. You may possibly have brown hair. You have a full face. Your face will have a golden tint 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 92 


Date of Death (3 


to it or you have a well-developed golden aura. You have a dull complexion. You have a sanguine 
complexion. You have a swarthy complexion. You have lovely eyes. You have sharp teeth. You may 
have scars or some asymmetrical feature in your face. There might be some mark or scar on your face. 
You will have some wounds or scars on your body. 


You like to wear flashy clothes. 


Your voice has a nice sound to it. Your speech is gentle. Your speech tends to be very energetic, strong 
and to the point. Your speech is uplifting, truthful and you often speak wisely. 


You are a seductive speaker. You are a skillful, practical speaker. 
Your excellent ability to express yourself gives you skills that will help your education a lot. 


You are perhaps shy and do not speak much. It is rather difficult for you to openly express yourself, 
especially in public. You can have problems speaking in public, as you are somewhat of an introvert. 


Your speaking style may be dry. You can be cutting and cynical due to your incisive thinking and sharp 
communication. You speak harshly. Your speech can easily sound a little stronger and harder than you 


intended. You will have a tendency to speak negatively about others without being concerned of how it 
affects them. 


Your face easily expresses positive thoughts and happiness. The expression your face displays most 
easily is anger. Beware of expressing yourself in an irritable way. 


You will have a good mind for mechanical things. Your mind is sharp. You are analytical and have a 
systematic approach. You are serious-minded and scholarly. You understand many of the deep hidden 
laws of nature in philosophy, religion, science, or the occult. If you have set your mind on a certain 
position, you will not give in easily. 


You have a lively mind. You have a flexible mind. Relationship issues occupy a large place in your 
mind. 


Your intellectual mind tends to be quite inwards. You are eager to learn new things. Although clever, 
you are easily distracted and mentally restless, with little peace of mind. 


You could get into trouble or be confused sometimes. Your imagination can be rather narrow. 


Thinking makes you hungry. 


You have strong feelings about sexual morals, which you feel others should respect and even live by. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 93 


Date of Death 


You have a pious soul. You play your cards close to your chest emotionally; you often hide how you 
truly feel about things. Your decisions are based more on feelings than on the intellect. You feel a 
responsibility to promote the culture of these other places. 


At times, you may have a tendency to become anxious, depressed and feel lonely. There is a tendency to 
diffuse fears and complications instead of dealing directly with them. You can fall into deep depressions 
and flirt with the idea of suicide. You may feel as though your sense of individuality is kind of diffused 
and non-determined. You are serious or solemn, and have inner anxiety. You may have feelings of being 
left out and overlooked that give rise to resentfulness or hopelessness. You sometimes feel that 
colleagues or neighbors are obstructing progress. On a subconscious level, you may feel you are 
supposed to be losing, which may affect your self-confidence. When attempting to fulfill your highest 
aspirations you may feel your efforts getting diffused and becoming ineffective. You may not be too 
conscious of your weak side until you find yourself in a vulnerable situation. 


You find it easy to attract partners initially; they often are frightened off because of your rigidity, rage, 
and tendency to be too attached to them. 


Conquering your senses through gaining expertise in your field of activity or study is an ongoing theme 
in life, but you can still upset others and yourself by disturbances you create through the erratic nature of 
your self-control. 


You are provided with a sharp intellect. You are bright and very clever. 


You have a philosophy of the cosmos, which tries to account for all phenomena. 


¥ 
You have a refined education. 


You can be an excellent researcher or perform your work with scholarly finesse. You can spend long 
hours researching subjects important to you. You may have an interest in chemistry, drugs, surgery, 
homeopathy, and other areas of medicine. You are very interested in education and you might get 
involved with teaching at one time. You may be trained on the job rather than at school. A sibling or a 
friend may be influential in your choice of educational path. 


Your education may be interrupted or delayed, most likely due to some financial situation. It can also 
happen that a sense of independence and desire for hands-on experience makes you restless in the 
classroom. 


You are knowledgeable. You like to study hidden knowledge. 


You never stop learning. You will leave no stone unturned in your search for answers. You may seek 
learning and understanding of life in the way you assert yourself: in terms of initiative and action. You 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 94 


Date of Death (3 


are driven to look for guidance outside yourself, although you know the answers are within. You will be 
drawn to learn about some area, which is foreign to most people. 


You are highly skilled. 


You have good argumentative skills though, and it will be hard for others to win an argument with you. 


You have good teaching skills. You plan your actions with forethought. 
You are responsible, pragmatic and have practical business and administrative skills. You may have 
mathematical or accounting skills. There might be a particular ability in mathematics or working with 


abstract numbers. 


You have a good sense of finances and managing money. You are better with written communications 
than with giving public speeches. 


You may lack the drive to work to your full capacity. You have a difficult time accepting the burdens of 
responsibility and when you do, the effect may be weak and diffused. 


You have a good and artistic imagination and you express it creatively. You have artistic abilities. 


You may have an interest and talent in any art form, like music, drama, dance, or other manual skills. 
There may be a writing ability or some other communicable talent. 


You can be industrious. 


You can aim well and may enjoy sports such as archery or target shooting. 


fe \ 
You do not sit idle or relax until you have completed the task you have set your mind on. You are 
self-reliant and do not like to ask anyone for help. 


Sometime you wish to be alone and other times you feel an irresistible desire to be together. You may 
point out in detail the injustices you have suffered. You may be eccentric and you will proudly pursue a 
life that is 'off the beaten path' from the rest of us. It could prove good for you to sacrifice your efforts 
for the good of the collective. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 95 


Date of Death 


You are not greedy and avaricious but on the contrary like to make a statement by generous giving. 
Success might be found when you do good things for those who need help or those who are trapped in 
isolation within their mind or environment. You tend to do good things for other people. 


You can be self-destructive. You may have a tendency to overpower people if you can. If someone hurts 
you, you do not forget it easily. Being sensitive and nurturing to others can feel like a big strain and that 
will bring the worst out of you at times: you may hurt others, specially those weaker than you. You 
attribute little value to your own and others' humanity. You tend to hold back on generosity. You may 
enjoy cooking up schemes to unsettle the status quo. It is likely that you are manipulative. 


You can be overly controlling or demanding with a short temper and lack of understanding of others! 
needs and desires. Not considering all circumstances you may act in a cruel, somewhat inconsiderate 
way, stepping on other's emotions and even forgetting the incident. Detachment from society and the 
moral and cultural limitations may cause you to break those boundaries and act in a way that some would 
consider immoral. Breaking the law may result in fines, penalties, and punishments. You do not worry 
about the legality of what you are doing. 


= 


You like to stay with your relatives and stay involved in your family's affairs. 


You are interested in researching ancient civilizations. You enjoy many pleasures. You like fishes or 
fishing. You have an attraction to foreign cultures and an interest in spiritual and occult kinds of 
knowledge. You are fascinated by different cultures and foreign traditions. You love ancient history, 
literature, and archeology. You are interested in accounts of deaths, natural or unnatural, such as 
drowning, fires, accidents, or suicides. You seem to have a liking of magic and mind control. 


You keep your thoughts and reasoning hidden from others. Fixed in nature, you prefer stability in home, 
work, and relationships. You have an active dream life. You like to use tools and instruments to further 
your skills. 


You enjoy materialistic pleasures. You like fancy boats and cars and expensive vacations by the water. 
Practice of meditation can change the sense of restlessness and discomfort into an integrated sense of 
wholeness and universality. You have an interest in spiritual liberation and enlightenment, especially 
through a mental path such as meditation. 


Pets may be problematic. 
You may get frustrated in your career due to failed enterprises. It is likely that you dislike talking much. 
You like to eat. You prefer fried or baked food to salad and fruit. The foods you tend to eat may not be 


so refined in general. You like to consume hot, spicy foods, coffee and alcohol - which are bad for you. 
You may eat too fast or eat fast foods, but sometimes fasting would be good. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 96 


Date of Death (3 


There might have been some hardships in the beginning of your life, in terms of your physical health or 
unfavorable circumstances. In childhood you may have had health challenges, been late in walking, or 
had some problem with your legs or feet. You may often feel as though your physical energy is drained 
out of you, leaving your body weak and fragile. You may have a physical weakness. You may develop 
diseases that are hard to diagnose. 


You seem to have an endless source of inner heat. You are likely to suffer from psychological 

problems, accidents while traveling, lung diseases, and hip ailments that could involve pain in the hips, 
thighs, and legs. Psychological upsets often result in poor health. Your nostrils dry up easily. You may 
suffer from coughs and colds. Your eyesight can develop some problem, and for that or other health 
problems, you will be hospitalized on at least one occasion. Eye problems are common - at the least, you 
may need glasses, - at the most, eye surgery may be needed. Your teeth may be sensitive to acids, and 
generally, some dental work will be necessary. You may have problems with your nose. Your vitality is 
stronger during the day than at night. 


Longevity is a concern, and your staying power may not be strong. 


Avoid long distance journeys by car in the winter. 


x ( = 
You respect your parents. You are a favorite with your father but sometimes have trouble connecting 
with your mother. Your parents may feel smothered. Your parents may be immigrants. 


Enthusiasm for scientific procedure mixes with activism and an urge to proselytize in your mother. She 
is a popular effective schmoozer, able to gain influence with influential people. Your mother's 
acquaintances go through dramatic or scandalous highs and lows, which may become grist for the mill of 
her own planning, acting, communicating, and promotions. An unusual approach to action is applied 
with courage and intensity as she seeks to overthrow limitations on the mechanical power side of nature. 
She can blow hot and cold toward the same topic on different occasions. She puts elaborate tools to 
work, but she might need a new car and her education may have been broken off. Your mother has a 
distinct, unusual set of talents and a dual nature in love. One side of her is controlled and a little 
conservative and the other lets caution fly to the winds and engages in self-gratifying indulgence. The 
indulgence may be only in her penchant for high technology and out of these world refinements in 
innovative procedures. She is a loving friend, desiring stability in love, and drawing to her eccentric or 
unique personalities. She is attracted to metaphysical teachings and the latest findings in scientific 
research. She has a spiritual outlook to learning and may love devotional practices including spiritual 
music. Your mother often has a solid sense of things that comes without intellectual analysis. Your 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 97 


Date of Death 


mother is philosophically minded and serious-natured. Your mother is levelheaded. Your mother is clear 
on what she wants and has a determined view about everything. Social interactions stimulate your 
mother's mind and often bring your mother a sense of comfort. Your mother can mask her misery with a 
smile. Your mother is careful, watchful, and thoughtful. Ideals come first for your mother. For herself 
your mother requires a comfortable, artistic, elegant lifestyle. Your mother has high appreciation for art, 
music, and cultural attainments and feels at home with them. Your mother feels at home on the Internet, 
communicating with many. Gathering knowledge is your mother's predilection. 


Your mother is impersonal in her work. Your mother's speech can be diffuse, formless, incomplete, 
cloudy, or vague. 


Your mother is quiet and either introverted or spiritual. Your mother is probably the traditional 
homemaker. Your mother is always ready to set out on journeys of discovery. Your mother may be too 
eccentric or lacking in charisma to sway the masses. Your mother is on good terms with the intellectuals 
and scholars. Getting the message across can be difficult for your mother, because of language or idea 
barriers. Your mother should try to cultivate activity and promptness, and avoid excessive solitude. You 
are friendly towards your mother. Your finances and your mother's are intertwined. Your mother may 
have difficulty coping with your unpredictability. Your mother does not see eye to eye with you 
philosophically. 


Your father is happy in his house or home and wherever he is becomes cozier. Family ties may not be 
so strong but he is devoted to caring for those he loves. He is a surprisingly hard worker and brings 
charged emotions to his tasks. He is impulsive and likely to perform bold deeds. He prefers being an 
entrepreneur and he draws on karmic credit from past lives. His car is close to his heart, and he benefits 
from real estate. Extremely expansive, open-minded, and desirous of supporting his family and 
dependents, your father is well educated and works to promote further education for all. He is popular 
and good-humored and attracts abundant fixed assets. He also has a dharmic disposition and strong 
sense of justice. He has strong connections to his ancestral roots and to the family inheritance. He has a 
self-protective core within his urbane, dignified personality. Optimism allows him to sail through 
obstacles, and he always has extra energy to upgrade his home, do some research on the side, or spend 
extra quality time with his children. Your father is a great host and his house doors are always open to 
his friends. Your father has strong periods of luck in his life. Your father swells with pride when given 
responsibilities but droops under situations of psychological deprivation. 


Your father may lead a difficult life and experience financial crisis. Your father was more likely 
employed than independent. 


At times people might find your father to be too clinging and overly available. When love and warmth 
are being bestowed to your father, he responds with great sincerity. When warmth is withdrawn, your 
father can react as if the life force has been drained from him. Since your father's feelings are so easily 
hurt, your father can miss opportunities by obsessing over others’ inconsiderateness. Your father's moods 
have a shape, almost like the moon which waxes and wanes and likewise your father is sometimes more 
imaginative and progressive and sometimes less so. 


Even while thinking with active mind, discussing his ideas for social regeneration, reading, and 
debating, your father is not vitally interested in these outward actions; he is more concerned with his 


family's welfare. 


Your father's financial support and advice are important. As a child, you would have liked to be closer to 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 98 


Date of Death (3 


your father. You try hard to please your father but he does not seem to understand who you really are. 
You might be at cross-purposes with your father or teachers. 


The women of your family are notable. Healthy and balanced circumstances in early family life have 
given you a good start for developing excellent human relationships skills later in life. Your family may 
come from humble circumstances or not have been able to provide for your education. Family life will be 
supportive and happy. Your family life is happy and bonded by a common sense of purpose of in life. 
The members of your family are very dear to you, and you are likely to bring good fortune and happiness 
to them because of your genuine generosity. Your family is warm and affectionate and provided an 
excellent start in life for you to develop healthy social skills. You are generous towards your family. You 
have excellent character and respect your family's values and traditions. 


Your family is not so close and social; there may be some kind of breakup where everyone goes his or 
her own way. You may feel like the odd man out in your family life, as if everyone else gets more 
attention than you. You do not want to be seen as having any problems at home. 


You get along well with siblings. You are a blessing to your older siblings and to your friends. 
Your siblings may prove to be supportive in your life, but you may still not have a high opinion about 
them. Your relationship with your siblings may suffer, or you may have lost contact due to death or other 


separation. A sibling may try to domineer over the family attention and wealth. 


You get involved in your older siblings' lives. Your one older sibling will spend some time in another 
country. 


In spite of your desire to help your younger siblings, it is often not possible. Your younger sibling is 
very disciplined and attains a successful career and good money by late middle age. 


You are passionate in your love relationships. You may be overly influenced by the attentions of the 
opposite sex. You are obsessed with a desire to be in relationship and lose yourself in the 'Land of 
Love.’ 


You have difficulty finding a sustained relationship with the opposite sex. You have an active fantasy 
life and love to live in your self-made world of stories and dreams. You have low virility and can be 
asexual. 


You will have a fortunate marriage. Relationships and marriage are important issues in your life. 


Married life may have its trials. You may have problems connected with the spouse. Your marriage will 
be decided suddenly or under unconventional circumstances. If you have to have a second marriage, it is 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 99 


Date of Death 


likely to turn out well. Even when established in a long term relationship or marriage, there may be an 
inclination to have an extra-marital affair. It is likely that you may have at least one divorce. You can be 
somewhat unsympathetic to your partner while expecting appreciation and sympathy from him or her. 
You may have difficulty in finding your true self where love is concerned. You tend to be dominant over 
your spouse and are interested in relations with the opposite sex. 


Marriage will bring prosperity. 
Your work may keep you away from your spouse. 


Your spouse may be a person that you have known since childhood and you are very close. Your 
husband likes adorning himself. Your spouse is beautiful. Being purposeful and one-pointed, your 
husband is utterly disinterested in things that do not concern him. Natural stubbornness gives your 
husband the perseverance to successfully execute his plans. Your husband is firm by nature. Your 
husband likes to travel in style - excursions are elaborate affairs. 


Your husband is thoughtful and somber. Try not to resent it if your spouse is successful. 


Your husband mulls over trivial things and this may lead to delay in getting some of his important work 
done. Your husband can be very possessive. Your partner or spouse may have a very strong influence on 
your personality and actions. You may marry someone of a different background. 


Your spouse may not stay in good health. 


You have many friends. You have a few friends on whom you rely heavily. You will not have so many 
close friends around you, and sometimes you will associate yourself with people of questionable 
reputation. 


You have foreign friends. You may associate with people whom society considers to be different or on 
the fringe. Still, you are too secretive to be a truly good friend. You are generous towards close friends. 
You search out the best way to exploit friendships and your relations with the public. 


You may yourself experience humiliation by your opponents. You feel plagued by competitors or 
enemies, which can affect your marital happiness as well as work environment. 


Others may feel you can be harsh, aggressive and be a little offended by your expressions. You are 
respected. Sometimes people accuse you of being spaced out or not all there. Sometimes you will be seen 
as an outcast or one who has thrown away promising prospects for some quirky path. You are generally 
liked and popular with most people, because you are romantic and attractive to the opposite sex. 


You may feel that your attempts to establish a good reputation and good status in society get diffused 
and are ineffective. You may hide your motives from others which gives rise to the feeling of 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 100 


Date of Death 


deceitfulness. You may often make decisions too quickly or carelessly and regret the results later on. In 
a sense you may be considered a 'fallen' person as you tend to indulge in activities that don't befit you. 
Possibly you might resort to low actions, which will only bring you shame and public humiliation. 


You may be involved in scandals. You make positive contributions to organizations. Your personal 
ambitions might contrast strongly with the needs of society. 


There is a deep, subconscious need to be away from people, and a craving for work in solitude. People 
you are closely related to, may run into mysterious upsets or problems. Salvation comes through 
associating with good company and with people who counter your sometimes boiling passions. You form 
relationships easily, and you try to be at harmony with everyone. Your capability of making a 
relationship is very useful in business and social life. Without a proper setup, how can you expect people 
to understand you? 


You may be better known in foreign countries than in your native land. Foreigners you deal with may 


suffer some problems such as illness or natural disasters, which you try to help them relieve. You have 
strong ties to countries other than the one in which you were born. 


er 


You are aspiring, democratic, reserved, chaste, prudent and self-controlled. You will always seek 
progress and success in your worldly affairs, and you will frequently feel worried about how it is going. 
You may, secretly and not openly, have high and glorious ambitions and this conflict may bring you to 
worry and underestimate your skills and capabilities. You may burst upon the world without warning, 
surprising others as much as yourself. You could be widely acclaimed for your efficiency in work. You 
work your way through difficulties to come out well in the long run. 


You provide structure and direction to professional groups. Your work, or your spouses, may be 
connected with night time, spirituality, or drugs. You are diligent at work, and you may employ subtle 
tactics to aid you. You can make an excellent teacher. To turn these effects to your advantage, you 
should plunge into a career which involves selfless actions and self-sacrifice and that aims at the 
common good of everyone. You may do work or service behind the scenes where you are not visible to 
many people, such as in working in large institutions. 


There may be an involvement in foreign communication or foreign languages. 


You attract poor or inferior associates. You seek to be in a relationship, but you may have problems with 
partners. Your partners look to you for direction. 


You can excel at sales - especially relating to sports, engineering, fine vehicles or financial instruments. 
Job security is iffy; you may be self-employed by necessity. You feel compelled to start your own 


business away from supervision. You may work as an independent contractor. 


You will have great difficulties with your bosses. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 101 


Date of Death 


Expecting coworkers or subordinates to be as clever or hardworking as you, you can be irritated or 
dissatisfied and make the situation worse by pushing them which just makes them dejected and useless. 


Generally you keep yourself somewhat in the background and avoid getting too much attention right 
away. If you are an intellectual worker such as a scholar or researcher, you may get bogged down in 
details or take things too literally. 


You may be pushed into a position of authority before you are ready for it. You gain fame or notoriety. 


Your career will lead you into surprising pursuits, unexpected by you and your family earlier in life. 
Projects you initiate may peter out without a strong finish. You may be dependent on the opposite sex 
for advancement in life. You might not get a true career, although you may get jobs because of your 
extreme independence. There may be success overseas or in working for foreign companies. Work may 
take you to foreign countries. You belong to foreign-based organizations and look to external influences 
for your inspiration. You may gain in foreign countries. 


You want to make a name for yourself in business. You know the subtleties of enlisting support and are 
fortunate in your allies. 


You will earn some money. You assets will grow and do well all around. You are prosperous but need to 
avoid becoming greedy. Your finances may fluctuate. Money comes easily when needed. You can gain 
surprising amounts of money and other forms of wealth, more than you would ever have expected when 
young. 


You may work hard to accumulate financial security for yourself and your family. There may be some 
obstacles in your way to financial independence, but you will get quite ambitious to overcome them. 
Your resources may tend to get lost. 


Early limitations in life make accumulating income difficult. 


There is a tendency to accumulate a wealth of knowledge rather than wealth in the form of money. 
At some point in your life you might have a side job at a clinic, hospital, retreat, ashram, a prison or 
some sex club. Foreign ventures are profitable. You may possibly utilize unscrupulous, or even 
dishonest means to gain money, if that is the only way. 


Your car or other vehicles are important to you and sometimes cause annoyance. 


Your possessions are likely to include land, tools, metal items, or other things with a mechanical or 
unrefined nature. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 102 


Date of Death 


You are prone to making impulsive and extravagant expenditures. Sometimes you have poor judgment 
about spending money, or circumstances may make you learn new ways to stretch a dollar. You can be 
arrogant and somehow end up disappointed with all the pleasures. Financially you may gain 
substantially, but then lose it again due to heavy expenditures. You are financially comfortable. You 
spend for humanitarian causes. You tend to spend on good causes, carefully considered and planned. 
You will spend time, energy or money on those who are poor people in the material sense or unskilled. It 
easily happens that you spend your money for purposes you feel passionate about. You spend much time 
and money on books. 


There may be expenses related to breaking the boundaries of the law. You go through financial 
obstacles and periods of large losses. Your friends also may part you from your wealth. You should be 
careful borrowing money and using credit cards. You may tend to get into heavy debt because of too 
much self-confidence. 


Your strongest sense is a spiritual dedication that may be invisible to most who know you. 


You may decide to define or try to realize your individual boundaries with spiritual practices or 
self-sacrifice, with which you may actually attain the highest stage of self-realization. Your real 
challenges could, therefore, be to remain conscious and explore the unknowing aspect of your mind to 
transcend the confusion that prevents you from finding your real Self; without an inner search like that 
your actions may be lacking in virtue. You ponder over the mysteries of reincarnation and longevity. You 
have a lot of hidden discipline that may manifest as success in meditation or as being one whose feelings 
cannot be easily thrown off your center. Understanding yourself on a deep level is an important theme 
and purpose of your life. Spiritual practice such as meditation will give you a very rewarding 
experience, and help you a great deal. 


You might be interested only in 'moksha' salvation and do not care for the work-a-day world at all. 
Spiritual activities pay well. 


You can develop subtle abilities or spiritual powers, but you may be tempted too much to use them for 
personal gain. Your spiritual views may bring you to militate against particular teachers or paths. You 
have a well-developed inner life and strong opinions about the nature of after-death experience. 


You most likely will adhere to the religion you were born into. You are honorable and you respect the 
traditional religion. You also meet people of other religions, whom you are open to learning from. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 103 


Date of Death 


You may be drawn into living abroad despite your conscious plans to stay at home. Residence in foreign 
countries is not an unlikely possibility in your life. You may emigrate overseas to work there or move at 
an early age. You may end up living in a place far from your original home. Your early home remains 
vivid in your thoughts. 


You have a liking for travelling. You like movement and have an ability to sell things. You enjoy 
vacationing and visiting friends. You may have to leave home or travel quite a bit. You will travel a lot, 
especially by water. Travelling by land, or other adventurous activities will be a suitable means to 
express your energy and courage. You will travel and possibly reside abroad. You travel in connection 
with your work but prefer to reside in your native land. You may move or travel frequently to satisfy a 
need for spiritual work or sacrifice. There will be unexpected travel occasionally in your life. 


When thorns are removed, what is it that remains? Roses. Your childhood was faced with difficult 
circumstances. Your goals and expectations are unrealistic and you will stay unsatisfied until you learn 
to 'Let go' concerning love, sex, and marriage which may not occur until after the age of 42. 


Life seems unkind to you at times. You have many worries and anxieties which prevent you from letting 
loose and living life flowingly. Some opportunities in life may be lost due to insufficient 
communication, or shyness in coming out in the open about your interest. You hold off from interfering 
with others although sometimes that makes you miss opportunities to help. Responsibilities you never 
knew about may crop up unexpectedly. There are moments of doubt about who you want to be, and what 
your life is about. You need to be very alert to stay on top of the potent energies within you. 


Opportunities that looked good may prove to be futile. 


You are lucky with investments. There is a natural attraction to improve your life by moving away, and 
going to other countries. 


You bring your own troubles on yourself. Your writings may at times land you in trouble. In your life 
you may have associations with places of seclusion like hospitals, prisons or asylums. 


You must take care of studying a document before you sign it. 
Conflicts find you at times so you might learn to be invisible. 


Gems that help you are ruby, yellow sapphire, pearl, citrine, red sujalite and red garnet. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 104 


Date of Death (3 


Transit Interpretations 
Transit of Sun in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (12 Feb 2013 20:00:42 to 14 
Mar 2013 16:56:29) 
The Sun's transit through the second house could prove to be a monetarily 
challenging for you. This period mostly portends absence of expected result or 
profit in trade and decline in wealth. If you deal in agriculture or trading, this 
period may bring you some setbacks. 


This is the time when you are more susceptible to fears than usual. You may feel 

at risk of being cheated, or experience anxiety for no apparent reason at all. As a 

result, you may find it difficult to handle ordinary affairs of your life as smoothly 
as you would otherwise do. 


You may find yourself not so happy and getting irritated easily even at your near 
and dear ones, and you may feel less compassion and flexible than usual. 


If you are susceptible to headaches or problems with your eyes, this is a time were 
the symptoms may surface. 


Transit of Mars in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (4 Mar 2013 20:39:39 to 
12 Apr 2013 19:37:35) 

During this period, Mars will move through your third house from the Moon. This 
brings in good times and could be regarded especially well for financial gains. 
During this time, you are likely to make money in your trade and profession. You 
are also likely to acquire valuable ornaments during this phase. 


Work should be on a smooth sail and you are likely to succeed in matters of 
importance. Your new endeavours would also see success. If employed, you are 
likely to be promoted to a position of greater authority and honour. Your success 
would boost your self-confidence and strengthen your will power during this 
time. 


Health would remain good and you would shine with health and vigour. Your 
enthusiasm is likely to be at its top and you would be relieved from all the past 
confusion or obstacles. This time also sees you indulging in exotic culinary 
delights. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 106 


Date of Death (3 


Your enemies would be defeated and you would be at peace with your mind. 
Avoid any trip abroad as it may not bring in the desired result during this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (14 Mar 2013 16:56:29 to 
14 Apr 2013 01:28:42) 

This transit of the Sun brings a positive boost in your professional and personal 
life. 


You are likely to progress in your career with an increased recognition from the 
employer or authorities. There is an increased chance for promotion or better 
employment. You feel energetic and enthusiastic, and will experience a heightened 
ability to overcome obstacles, resolve problems, and overcome possible 
obstruction from adversaries. Your work is most likely to be successful and bear 
fruit. This will result in financial gains, and absence of money related worries 


You will do well socially, and feel successful, respected, and appreciated. 
Friends, family and acquaintances will love you and you have a chance to spend 
time with them. Your mind is at peace, and you feel happy and comfortable with 
your life. If you have children, you will enjoy parenthood. 


Your heightened mental and physical fitness will come along with sound health, 
and absence of diseases. 


Transit of Mercury in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (10 Apr 2013 01:55:18 
to 28 Apr 2013 18:29:14) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your third house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a rough phase with your superiors. You may have to be extra 
careful while dealing with your superiors and employer. Avoid any kind of 
argument that may lead to differences of opinion and misunderstandings. 


Stay away from your known enemies and be careful of unknown ones. However, 
this period may also give you few new and worthy friends whom you would 
treasure for life. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 107 


Date of Death (3 


Handle your finances carefully as money needs extra attention during this period. 
Be cautious to avoid any loss of wealth. 


This journey of Mercury may make you suffer from depression, trouble in 
recollection of facts, mental stress and unexpected hassles in your endeavours. 


Transit of Mars in the 4th house from Natal Moon (12 Apr 2013 19:37:35 to 
23 May 2013 09:13:21) 

During this period, Mars will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This brings in some hard times in a few of your life's segments. Most of you are 
likely to face a difficult time when it comes to managing your old enemies. You 
are also likely to encounter some new enemies who could also be from your own 
circle of family and friends. Some of you may also befriend some wicked people 
for whom you may suffer later. Keep an eye on your behaviour as it might become 
cruel during this phase. 


However, a few of you may also go in for some kind of settlement with your foes. 
Your health would require more attention than usual as this period makes you 
susceptible to developing fever and discomfort in the chest. Some of you may also 
suffer from diseases mostly related to the blood and the stomach. 

Mentally you are likely to remain worried and under a spell of grief. 

Relationships would be demanding during this time. Make peace with your family 


and other relatives to avoid further sorrow during this phase. Hold on tightly to 
your honour and position in the society as well. 


Avoid any issues related to land and property especially during this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 4th house from Natal Moon (14 Apr 2013 01:28:42 to 14 
May 2013 22:21:15) 

The period when the Sun travels through the fourth house may connote decline in 
your present social status and difficulty in maintaining your position at the 
workplace. It would be better to avoid any arguments with your seniors, mentors 
or well wishers during this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 108 


Date of Death (3 


This period could prove to be distressful, prone to experiencing grief and a time of 
misery. Your mind may have a hard time staying focussed on constructive 
thoughts, and instead be drawn to find an escape in something of an addictive 
nature, compensating for it's restless state. 


Married life during this particular period may become tense and there could also 
be a considerable decline in conjugal ecstasy. Don't let the disturbance in your 
mind project itself in creating any kind of quarrels with your family, or the peace 
at home may suffer. Overall, you may experience a dip in your happiness in the 
domestic and social realm. 


On the health front, your mental disturbance may reflect in some physical 
complaints or even ailments. 


Plans for journeys may face obstacles, and when you do travel you may have 
problems being comfortable, such as lack of food. 


Transit of Mercury in the 4th house from Natal Moon (28 Apr 2013 18:29:14 
to 13 May 2013 08:38:47) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This signifies progress in every aspect of your life. On the personal front you are 
likely to be content with your life and you would succeed and gain in all your 
undertakings. Your status in the society will be heightened and you would be 
honoured. 


Financially this is a very good phase as this period indicates attainment of wealth 
in the form of money or property. You may also gain from your spouse or other 
members of the opposite sex. 


At home, this period indicates the arrival of a new member to the family. You are 
also likely to make your mother be proud of you. Your mere presence in the family 
may bring in success to the other members of the family. 


You may also make new friends who are highly educated and gentle people to be 
with. 


Transit of Mercury in the 5th house from Natal Moon (13 May 2013 08:38:47 
to 28 May 2013 00:41:23) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 109 


Date of Death (3 


During this period, Mercury will move through your fifth house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a troubled personal life. During this particular period you 
must try and avoid getting involved in any kind of arguments with your wife, 
children and other members of the family. This is not a conducive period for you 
to be headstrong and opinionated while dealing with friends as well. Be extra 
careful while handling your loved ones. 


Health could be a matter of concern at this particular point of time. Take care of 
your food, as you are likely to suffer from heat stroke or body heat during this 
time. Do not undertake any activity, which would put a risk to your life. 


Mentally you may feel agitated and all drained out. 
This period may also give you some bodily pain leading to much discomfort. 


There may also occur troublesome and difficult circumstances in the work front. If 
you are a student, you need to be more determined and focused in your studies to 
avoid any kind of distraction. 


Transit of Sun in the 5th house from Natal Moon (14 May 2013 22:21:15 to 
15 Jun 2013 04:55:49) 

This particular time mostly denotes a period of monetary challenges, and decline 
in mental peace. On the work front, you have to take extra care not to get into the 
bad books of your seniors. Avoid arguments with your employer or senior staff at 
your workplace. You may have to deal with some obstacles, which could be 
related to competitors, authorities or people you have unfriendly relations with. 


If you express your mental anxiety, you are likely to loose goodwill amongst 
friends and children. 


Health would require your attention, as you may feel sick and lethargic. Mental 
anguish, fear and restlessness may cast their spells on you, and make you're more 
prone to be offended by others. You may also become unstable in your 
temperament. 


Issues related to children may become a matter of concern for you. Avoid 
discussing anything at this time, as you are likely to cause disagreements between 
you and your son. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 110 


Date of Death (3 


Transit of Mars in the 5th house from Natal Moon (23 May 2013 09:13:21 to 
5 Jul 2013 01:12:22) 

During this period, Mars will move through your fifth house from the Moon. This 
signifies a ruffled time. It would be a wise move to curtail your expenses as much 
as possible as this period sees you losing control on your finances and expenses. 


Take care of your children as they may suffer from sickness. Avoid any kind of 
unpleasantness between you and your son, if any, as this may give you agony. 


Handle your enemies with care and be cautious enough to avoid creating some new 
ones. Your enemies are likely to give you some more harassment during this 
particular time. 


Your health would require more attention during this period. You are likely to feel 
lacklustre, weak and feverish. Some of you may catch some diseases that would 
require proper diagnosis. Take care of your food habits as well. 


Some of you may also go through a personal behavioural change during this time. 
Some of you, though very unlikely of you, may become furious, apprehensive and 
very estranged from the near and dear ones. Some of you may even tend to lose 
their glory and fame during this phase. Development of some needless needs and 
urge to do some immoral deeds may land some of you in thick soup. Stay away 
from quarrel with family members during this time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 6th house from Natal Moon (28 May 2013 00:41:23 
to 4 Aug 2013 21:36:18) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your sixth house from the Moon. 
This indicates a mixed bag of positive and negative happenings. This particular 
period indicates success, stability and progress 1n your personal life. Your plans 
and projects will be successfully accomplished and you would also gain from the 
same. 


You are also likely to do better in the work front. You may expect progress in all 
your undertakings. 


This period also indicates your popularity in the society. Your status in the society 
is also likely to be heightened. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 111 


Date of Death (3 


Health should be fine and you would also have mental peace and contentment. 


However, for some, this movement of Mercury may bring in worries and troubles 
from enemies. 


You may have to be extra careful with your finances. Avoid any kind of 
arguments with your employer. 


It is better you stay away from activities involving risk to your health. However, 
body heat may trouble you during this particular period. 


Transit of Jupiter in the 6th house from Natal Moon (31 May 2013 06:49:20 
to 19 Jun 2014 08:47:12) 

During this period, Jupiter will move through your sixth house from the Moon. 
This signifies trouble in most of your life's quarters. You tend to increase your 
enemies by being involved in unnecessary arguments with your family and 
friends. You are also likely to create enmity with your mentor. Beware of your 
enemies at this time as they might trouble you more than ever. 


Health would require attention at this time. You may feel unhappy even when you 
are in the best of condition and may tend to become restless. Take care to avoid 
slackness in health and diseases. 


You would have to be more attentive in your field of work as there is a chance 

that you might lose some money or property during this phase. Beware of thieves, 
a fire at your workplace and even the wrath of the government. If employed, 
maintain a good rapport with your employer and colleagues to avoid any disfavour 
with them. It would be better to postpone new enterprises, as this may not be the 
right time to start something new. 


Your relationship with your spouse may have to be handled carefully and 
sensibly. Avoid any kind of arguments with your partner and stay away from 
litigations of any kind with anybody. 


Transit of Sun in the 6th house from Natal Moon (15 Jun 2013 04:55:49 to 16 
Jul 2013 15:45:48) 
The period brings success in every aspect of life. You will find yourself 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 112 


Date of Death (3 


overcoming obstacles easily, and it's a great time for successful problem solving. 
If anyone gets in your way, you will be able to deal with it easily, with a minimal 
of aggravation. 


It is a good time to complete any unfinished projects, and you are likely to succeed 
in whatever you put your efforts in. Financially you will also do well, and will find 
it easy to gain in general. 


Your mental and physical health will be excellent. Your body will stay healthy and 
your mind will be free of too much stress and anxiety. It's a time to enjoy comforts 
and social relations, especially friendship with people in powerful positions. 


There are good chances for promotion and honour, especially from authorities or 
government related people 


Transit of Mars in the 6th house from Natal Moon (5 Jul 2013 01:12:22 to 19 
Aug 2013 01:59:33) 

During this period, Mars will move through your sixth house from the Moon. This 
denotes good times. This period would see you gaining wealth, acquiring gold, 
corals, copper and reaping unprecedented profit in your metal and other 
businesses. If employed, you may expect that much awaited promotion and 
honour at your work place. Most of you would see success in all your 
undertakings. 


The improvement in your overall financial condition would make you feel secure, 
comfortable and happy. You would also be able to live in with peace in mind and 
a sense of fearlessness would prevail in you. 


This is also the time to win over your enemies. You may also expect ceasefire of 
your previous quarrels. If you are caught up in any court case, you may expect a 
judgement that would favour you. Most of your enemies would withdraw and 
victory would be yours. You are also likely to command more respect and honour 
in the society. Some of you would also perform charitable deeds at this time. 


Health would be fine during this time. You would get rid of all your previous 
ailments. 


Transit of Sun in the 7th house from Natal Moon (16 Jul 2013 15:45:48 to 17 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 113 


Date of Death (3 


Aug 2013 00:07:56) 
The Sun's position in the seventh house gives a tendency for travel, but such 
travel will tend to be tiring and troubled. 


You need to be extra careful not to challenge your seniors or superiors at the 
workplace, as they are likely to oppose you, resulting in enmity and humiliation. 
Even the relationship with your partner and neighbours may be a bit strained at 
this time. 


Your level of enthusiasm may be at a low, resulting in an inability to overcome 
obstacles that come in the way of achieving your dream objectives or goals during 
this particular time. This period may take you through some set backs in your 
professional activities, will a general lack of progress and success. 


Your health would require your care and attention, as you are more susceptible to 
health problems, particularly discomfort in the stomach, blood related problems, 
fever, and fatigue. Be extra cautious with your diet to avoid indigestion, food 
poisoning and food allergies. The health of your wife and children may also be 
under pressure. 


Transit of Mercury in the 7th house from Natal Moon (4 Aug 2013 21:36:18 
to 21 Aug 2013 04:55:30) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your seventh house from the 
Moon. This may bring in some trying time for you both mentally and physically. 
This period indicates illness. You may have to experience physical pain and bodily 
weakness during this phase. 


Mentally you might become restless and anguished. A rise in mental perplexity 
and misunderstanding with the family is also indicated during this time. You may 
have to be extra careful to avoid arguments and communication gaps while dealing 
with your spouse and children. Take care to avoid any situation where you may 
have to face humiliation. 


You could feel more hassled as you are likely to face hurdles in your endeavours. 
Travel plans, if any, may not yield the expected result and could be troublesome. 


Transit of Sun in the 8th house from Natal Moon (17 Aug 2013 00:07:56 to 17 
Sep 2013 00:02:59) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 114 


Date of Death (3 


The Sun's journey through the eighth house could incur loss and bodily suffering 
in general. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary expenses and avoid making 
important decisions about finances. 


Support from your community, family members and even partner may seem 
absent to you. There could be a change in the work you do, possibility forcing you 
to let go of your current position, or there could be a lot of travel, which may turn 
out stressful. 


Consciously avoid getting involved in any kind of quarrel with your enemies or 
anyone else, as it is likely to be totally fruitless. 


Take care of your health as you may develop physical ailments like stomach 
disorder, blood pressure and piles, causing you discomfort. You may develop 
needless fear; especially fear of death or loss of honour, meaningless anxiety and a 
restless mind during this phase. It is wise to avoid activities that involve any kind 
of risks with your life and that of your family. A relative's issue may come up 
unexpectedly causing you some worries. 


Transit of Mars in the 7th house from Natal Moon (19 Aug 2013 01:59:33 to 
5 Oct 2013 19:41:05) 

During this period, Mars will move through your seventh house from the Moon. 
This brings in a trying time mostly in matters of health and relationships. 


You may suffer from excess mental worry due to a health problem to yourself, 
your spouse and your near and dear ones. You are likely to feel fatigued and 
susceptible of developing eye discomfort, stomach ache and discomfort in your 
chest. You may also have to take care of your spouse's health. You and your 
spouse are also likely to develop deep mental anxiety during this time. 


Most of you are likely to develop enmity with some noble person. Avoid any 
misunderstanding that may crop up due to hypothetical differences between you 
and your spouse. If not handled tactfully, this may lead to a big quarrel between 
the two of you. Make peace with your friends and dear ones. You are also likely to 
be put to anguish by your kinships. Watch your behaviour, as you are susceptible 
of using bad words and being wrathful towards your siblings or children. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 115 


Date of Death (3 


Your finances would need a tight watch as well. Some of you may lose some of 
your riches due to your unnecessary indulgence in a competition. Curtail your 
spending sprees and ensure a steady incoming of good food and clothing during 
this period. 


Transit of Mercury in the 8th house from Natal Moon (21 Aug 2013 04:55:30 
to 6 Sep 2013 00:54:07) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly signifies wealth and success. It indicates success in all your work and 
projects. During this period you may expect financial stability and gain in 
financial ventures. 


Socially you would see a rise in your status. People would respect you more and 
your popularity would increase. 


This period may also let you acquire a comfortable lifestyle. You are also likely to 
gain happiness from your children. You are likely to receive happiness with a 
newborn member in the family. Your children would also remain happy and 
content during this particular period. 


This period sees a more alert and clever you. You would be able to use your 
intuition and intellect to make right decisions. 


Your enemies are likely to be defeated and will be mellowed down by your aura. 
Moreover, you may also expect help from all the sides. 


However, your health would require your attention, as you are susceptible to fall 
sick. Take care of your food intake and keep your spirits high to keep gloominess 
and unnecessary fears at bay. 


Transit of Mercury in the 9th house from Natal Moon (6 Sep 2013 00:54:07 
to 25 Sep 2013 06:33:43) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your ninth house from the Moon. 
This signifies sufferings from diseases. This particular phase may bring in 
obstruction and interruptions in your field of work. Take care to keep your respect 
and position in the workplace intact. Make sure you don't have to regret any of 
your actions done at this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 116 


Date of Death (3 


Watch out for probable hurdles before venturing into something new. 


Mentally you may feel hassled, over burdened, and unstable due to several 
reasons. 


Beware of your enemies as they could harm you more during this particular phase. 
Avoid any arguments with your family and relatives as this may lead to 
unnecessary quarrels. 


During this period you are susceptible to become irritable and may try to find out 
faults in matters related to religion, common belief etc. This period may also 
demand more labour from you in order to accomplish any task undertaken. 
However, a feeling of lack of interest may stop you from working hard. 


Avoid undertaking any long distance travel, as it is likely to be troublesome and 
may not give you the desired result. Take care of your food habits and try and keep 
yourself in a positive frame of mind. 


Transit of Sun in the 9th house from Natal Moon (17 Sep 2013 00:02:59 to 17 
Oct 2013 12:00:09) 

Sun in the ninth house has some significant results in your life. This period could 
mean blame games, change of place and lack of mental peace. 


Take extra care at your work place to avoid disappointing your employer. You 
may feel humiliated and chances are that some false charges would be imposed on 
you. Avoid any tricky situation during this time. 


Financially this period could be taxing on you. You may also find it difficult to 
recover pending dues from others. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary 
expenses. Misunderstandings, disagreements may occur between you and your 
teacher, or spiritual/religious leader. Opinions of your family and friends may 
clash with that of yours leading to fights and discontentment. 


Health would require your attention as you may develop physical and mental 
discomforts at this time. You may also feel more tired and mentally depressed than 
usual. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 117 


Date of Death (3 


However, you may also consider doing some virtuous deeds, as you are more 
likely to accomplish this successfully. Travel would be on the cards. 


Transit of Mercury in the 10th house from Natal Moon (25 Sep 2013 06:33:43 
to 1 Dec 2013 10:04:37) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your tenth house from the Moon. 
This denotes contentment and good times for you. You would be happy and 
successful in all your endeavours. Professionally a very good period could be 
expected as well. You would be able to finish off the work given to you 
successfully on time. 


Happiness at home is also indicated during this time. You could also expect to 
meet someone interesting during this time. Some of you may also expect to spend 
some passionate time with someone new of the opposite sex. Possibility of gain 
from this person is also indicated during this particular time. 


Financially, this could be a good time for you. The success in your endeavours 
will be gainful for you and you may expect other monetary gain as well. 


This period may also bring in a rise in your status in the society. You are likely to 
be honoured and may command more respect in the society. You may become 
socially more active and may get involved in social welfare work. 


Mentally peace and calmness is indicated. Your enemies are likely to be defeated 
with ease and you would find calmness in life during this particular time. 


Transit of Mars in the 8th house from Natal Moon (5 Oct 2013 19:41:05 to 26 
Nov 2013 19:34:16) 

During this period, Mars will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly denotes physical danger to you. This period demands a strict 
watchfulness on any and all the developments related to your life, health and 
physique. Stay clear from diseases and all kind of addictions to maintain sound 
health. Some of you are likely to develop blood related disorders like, anaemia, 
haemorrhage, deficiency diseases etc. 


This period also needs you to stay away from weapons and disguised foe. Avoid 
undertaking any task that might prove to be life risking for you. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 118 


Date of Death (3 


Finances would require proper vigilance during this particular period. Most of you 
are likely to face some steep decline in your finances if not handled carefully. 
However, avoid going for any loan and try and keep yourself debt free. 


At work, you may have to put in extra effort to see success in your endeavours. 
Keep up your hope and work on. Hold on to your position and honour at work, as 
this low phase shall also pass. 


Most of you are also likely to go on foreign trips and may even have to stay away 
from your family for a considerable time. 


Transit of Sun in the 10th house from Natal Moon (17 Oct 2013 12:00:09 to 
16 Nov 2013 11:48:34) 

This is a favourable period. It denotes gains, promotions, progress and success in 
all your endeavours. 


You may expect a promotion at the work place. Favour of your seniors, honour 
from the authorities and even more opportunities could be expected during this 
time. 


This period also denotes success in your endeavour and favourable culmination of 
any stuck up deals. 


Socially you may expect an even more respectable position. Your social circle 
will get widened, meaning more positive and gainful interactions particularly with 
the opposite sex, honour from your circle of friends and acquaintances. You may 
even expect to be honoured by the highest of authorities. You could expect more 
gains from unexpected quarters as well. 


Your health will be at its best during this time. Overall happiness would surround 
you. 


Transit of Sun in the 11th house from Natal Moon (16 Nov 2013 11:48:34 to 
16 Dec 2013 02:27:51) 

This transit of the Sun mostly means monetary gains, improved economic and 
social status. 


This is a suitable time for you to approach your boss/employer for any favors such 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 119 


Date of Death (3 


as asking for a promotion. You will rise in your position at the work place, and 
get unexpected benefits from your superiors or authorities. 


You could also expect profit in trade and attainment of wealth during this time and 
even gains from your friends. 


Your social prestige would see a rise and you would gain more honour in your 
neighbourhood. 


Health would remain fine during this time and your sound health could be a happy 
occasion for the family. 


This period also signifies the commencement of some spiritual constructive deed 
at your home leading to even more happiness. Merrymaking, distribution and 
indulgence of good food and sweets at home could also be expected during this 
time. Overall, a comfortable period is denoted for you and your family leading to 
familial peace during this time. 


Transit of Mars in the 9th house from Natal Moon (26 Nov 2013 19:34:16 to 4 
Feb 2014 14:25:03) 

During this period, Mars will move through your ninth house from the Moon. This 
signifies sufferings mostly due to ailments. This period makes you suffer from 
minor to major physical ailments and bodily pain. During this time, you are 
susceptible to dehydration and weakness or decayed physical power. You may also 
suffer from muscle pain and wounds caused by some weapon. 


Mentally you may feel worried and disappointment most of the time. Some of you 
may also have to go to a foreign land to experience a temporary painful living. 


Finances would need better care and guarding, as you are likely to lose some 
during this particular time. 


Your professional life would require proper handling and more hard work. Some 
of you may also have to work in an uncomfortable work environment for a while. 
Work hard to maintain your position and respect at work or in your field of 
profession. 


Maintain peace and harmony at home and keep an eye for disguised foes within 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 120 


Date of Death (3 


your near and dear ones. Some of you may also develop an urge to perform some 
activities that may not be acceptable in your religious confines. 


Transit of Mercury in the 11th house from Natal Moon (1 Dec 2013 10:04:37 
to 20 Dec 2013 20:56:49) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eleventh house from the 
Moon. This indicates achievement and monetary gain. This period is likely to 
bring in financial gains for you. You may expect to receive higher monetary gains 
from different sources. Your personal endeavours, businesses and investments are 
likely to bring in higher financial gains and more profits. If you are a professional 
or employed, you are likely to be more successful during this particular period. 
You are likely to prosper in your field of activity especially during this time. 


Health should be good. You are likely to be at peace with yourself. You may 
become more soft-spoken and very cordial in your behaviour. 


At home, you may expect a good time. Your spouse and children will also be 
happy and cordial. You may also expect to get some favourable news. You are 
likely to be surrounded by material comfort. 


Socially this is a good phase as well. You would be able to command more 
respect in the society. Pleasant company of the opposite sex would also surround 
you. Your wit and pleasant nature would also make people flock around you. 


Transit of Sun in the 12th house from Natal Moon (16 Dec 2013 02:27:51 to 
14 Jan 2014 13:12:45) 

This particular period signifies monetary challenges. You would have to take extra 
care while handling finances during this period. 


If employed, you may find yourself having a bit of a hard time with your 
employer. He will tend to not appreciate your work and you may feel a threat of 
being given less responsibilities or less pay. Do not get disheartened if your efforts 
and hard work do not give you the desired result at this time. 


If you are into trade, you may have to go through a few setbacks. Be careful in 
your dealings. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 121 


Date of Death (3 


This period may also take you through a rough weather socially. Avoid arguments 
with anybody, as quarrels with friends and seniors could not be ruled out during 
this phase. 


You may also have to go on long trips, which may not bring in the desired result. 
Avoid activities that involve physical risks and make safety your first priority. 


Take care of your health and that of your family during this time as you may 
develop fever, stomach trouble and some discomfort in the eyes. Discontentment 
during this particular time may affect peace and harmony at home. 


Transit of Mercury in the 12th house from Natal Moon (20 Dec 2013 

20:56:49 to 8 Jan 2014 13:18:29) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your twelfth house from the 
Moon. This denotes expenses for you. You may have to spend more than expected 
in order to live a comfortable life. Stay away from litigations as this may also 
cause some loss of money. Moreover, you may also have to work extra hard to 
accomplish any of the task undertaken by you. 


Beware of your enemies and stay out of their way in order to avoid any 
humiliation. Hold on to your respect and try and keep your honour in the society. 


You could be mentally disturbed due to several reasons. You are susceptible to 
worries and restlessness during this particular time. You are also likely to be 
distressed and feel discontented during this phase. 


You are likely to lose interest in food and conjugal life. A feeling of sickness and 
suffering may trouble you during this particular point of time. 


Transit of Mercury in the Ist house from Natal Moon (8 Jan 2014 13:18:29 to 
26 Jan 2014 23:51:31) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your first house from the Moon. 
This may bring in some negative results in your life. This mostly brings in a 
situation where you may have to serve someone unwillingly. You are also 
susceptible to face oppression of some kind. Take care to avoid facing a haul over 
the coals and the lashes of unsympathetic words from others. Keeping a low 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 122 


Date of Death (3 


profile and doing your task best should be the focus during this time. 


You may also have to watch out for unnecessary expenditure as this may cause a 
big hole in your wallet. Be cautious with your spending and pay attention to the 
safety of your finances. 


You are also likely to befriend some bad personalities who may cause harm. 
Watch your words while dealing with your near and dear ones. Your insensitivity 
may create some unnecessary enemies within your circle. Avoid any kind of 
lawsuits and bad company. Be careful not to do anything that may make you lose 
your self worth. You would always need your good fortune, so, save it. Take 
advantage of your education and experience to avoid any glitch in your life. 


Be flexible during this period, as you may have to make some last minute changes 
in your plan, project or ideas due to pressure from different quarters or due to 
some anticipated fear. Obstructions may crop up related to your foreign residence 
if applicable. You may also find obstacles in performing any auspicious work at 
home. Take care of your family and yourself as you may become susceptible to 
deception particularly during this phase. Avoid travel if possible as you may not 
get the desired pleasure or expected result out of it. 


Transit of Sun in the 1st house from Natal Moon (14 Jan 2014 13:12:45 to 13 
Feb 2014 02:12:57) 

The Sun's transit through the first house has a noticeable influence on your work 
as well as personal life. There could be a permanent or temporary change of place, 
difficulty at the work place, or a ruffled time with your superiors at work or your 
employer. You need to take extra care to avoid getting a bad reputation at the 
workplace, as you may feel more irritable, tired and prone to have disagreements. 


To complete the tasks on hand or to meet your set objectives may take more effort 
than usual. There is a heightened chance for going on long trips, which may not 
bring the desired result, or may turn out not to have been necessary in the first 
place. 


During this period you could feel more tired than usual. Your health would need 
extra attention as you are susceptible to stomach problems, disturbed bowel 
movement, discomfort in the eyes and heart related problems during this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 123 


Date of Death (3 


Avoid activities that are physically risky, as there is a tendency toward accidents. 


On the home front, you need to put extra attention on avoiding disputes among 
family and friends, and make sure you get the extra rest to minimise irritability and 
mental tension. Disagreements may crop up between you and your spouse, and 
may affect your married life. Overall harmony and peace at home could also be 
challenged during this time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (26 Jan 2014 23:51:31 
to 18 Feb 2014 17:34:22) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your second house from the 

Moon. This signifies pecuniary gain and growth of income especially to those who 
deal in precious gems. 


This period is also likely to bring in happiness to you in the form of success in 
learning and attainment of knowledge. 


This period also brings in the company of good people and gives you an 
opportunity to savour exotic culinary delights. 


However, for some, this particular period may bring in sufferings, bad name in the 
society and your enemy could also be more harmful than usual. This phase also 
indicates a probable loss of one of your relatives or a near friend. 


Transit of Mars in the 10th house from Natal Moon (4 Feb 2014 14:25:03 to 
25 Mar 2014 09:51:25) 

During this period, Mars will move through your tenth house from the Moon. This 
signifies a ruffled path to success. You are likely to face a lot of trouble ranging 
from misbehaviour of your superiors, failure in efforts, sorrow, disappointments, 
exhaustion and so on. However, you are also likely to meet with success in your 
field of work at the end. Some of you would be able to perform better than ever at 
work. You may also have to undertake some hopping about around places, as your 
work is likely to demand the same. 


This period is likely to bestow a rise in your prestige, position and authority at 
work. You are also likely to get scripted in the good books of your superiors and 
enlarge your circle of good friends. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 124 


Date of Death 


Your glory is also likely to bring in some new friends into your life. 


Health however, would require your attention. Keep note of what you are eating 
and keep up your mental health as well. 


Some of you may also feel relieved of your worries and would win over your 
enemies. However, never under estimate your enemies and stay away from 
weapons. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 125 


Date of Death (3 


Dasha Interpretations 


Rahu Maha Dasha: 31 Aug 2001 to 29 May 2019 


Interpretation of the Maha Dasha of Rahu 


General Interpretations 


General effects which are felt during the Maha Dasha of Rahu are as follows — 

— There may be unhappiness due to various reasons, physical hardships and a state of 
mindlessness may prevail. 

— There may be fear from thieves, powerful persons, poison and weapons. 

— Happiness, wealth and worldly conditions may cause worry. 

— Children may suffer and separation from children and dear ones may cause 
unhappiness. 

— One may fear insult and defame from lowly people. 

— Some ill deed may cause defame. 

— There may be a change of job, and residence abroad is possible. 

— Diseases may cause pain and one may be inclined towards quarreling. 


— Rahu will give excellent results. 

— During the excellent Maha Dasha of Rahu, one may attain wealth and there will be an 
advent of money and religious inclinations. 

— Pious deeds are performed. 


The dasha of Rahu normally lasts for 18 years. 
— The 6th and 8th years are the most painful ones. 


— Rahu is exalted in Taurus, Gemini (according to a different viewpoint), a Mool Trikona 
in Cancer, Aquarius and a friendly planet in Aries. 


Specific Interpretations 


Interpretations based on the condition of the planet and other influences in the birth chart and 
divisional charts are as follows — 

— There may be wealth, prosperity, happiness and friendship with the powerful. 

— Honour and wealth may be gained from those in authority. 

— Dear ones may die. 

— Fear of those in authority, upheavals in business and loss of job is possible. 

— There may be fear of fire, thieves, ailments and harm to religion and work. 

—One’s spouse may expire or suffer pain equivalent to death. 

— Migration, change of place or travels abroad are possible. 

— Losses in agriculture and wealth, lack of servants, pain to children and unfortunate 
events are foreseen. 

— Fear of snakes (poison) may prevail. 

— Acquisition of authority and gains from the government are foreseen. 

— Gain of wealth, bliss of spouse, success and tolerance of pain is possible. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 126 


Date of Death (3 


Rahu-Venus : 18 Jan 2013 to 3 Jan 2016 


Effects of the Antar Dasha of Venus in the Maha Dasha of Rahu 


Antar Dasha of Venus in the Maha Dasha of Rahu - 

- Very little money may be earned in work and business inspite of immense struggle. 

- Bliss of wife and gain of wealth through her is possible. 

- Friends may cause agony and fear of opposition with the family prevails. 

- One may go abroad and prosper there. 

- Ailments related to urinary organs may occur. 

- Effects like gains of wealth through Brahmins, increase in the number of cattle, 
celebrations for the birth of a son, well being, recognition from government, 
acquisition of a kingdom, attainment of a high position in government, great 
enjoyment and comforts, etc. 

- Construction of a new house, availability of sweet preparations, happiness from wife 
and children, association with friends, giving of grains, etc., in charity, 
beneficence of the king (government), gain of conveyances and clothes extraordinary 
profits in business, celebration of Upasayan ceremony of wearing the sacred thread 
(‘Janou'’). 

- There will be diseases, quarrels, separation from one's son or father, distress to 
kinsmen, disputes with coparceners, danger of death to oneself or to one's employer, 
unhappiness to wife and children, pain in the stomach, etc. 

- Enjoyments from perfumes, bed, music, etc., gain of a desired object, fulfillment of 
desires, will be the results. 

- Effects like danger from the wrath of Brahmins, snakes, and the king (government), 
possibility of affliction with diseases like stoppage of urine, diabetes, pollution 
of blood, anaemia, availability of only coarse food, nervous disorder, imprisonment, 
loss of wealth as a result of penalties or fines imposed by government. 

- There will be distress to wife and children, danger of premature death to oneself. 

- Remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are worship of Goddess 
Durga and Goddess Lakshmi. 


Rahu-Venus-Venus : 18 Jan 2013 to 17 Jul 2013 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Venus in the Antar Dasha of Venus, one may acquire the company of a 
white horse, one may also get white clothes, pearls, gold and jewels. 
— One may acquire the company of a beautiful lady. 


Rahu-Venus-Sun : 17 Jul 2013 to 9 Sep 2013 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Sun in the Antar Dasha of Venus, one may suffer from fever, 
headache, and anguish caused by those in authority and enemies. 
— There may be some gain as well. 


Rahu-Venus-Moon : 9 Sep 2013 to 8 Dec 2013 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 127 


Date of Death (3 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Moon in the Antar Dasha of Venus, a daughter may be born. 
— There may be some gain from those in authority, and the acquisition of clothes, and ornaments. 
— There may be gain from government authorities as well. 


Rahu-Venus-Mars : 8 Dec 2013 to 9 Feb 2014 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mars in the Antar Dasha of Venus, there may be ailments related to 
blood and acidity, as well as conflicts. 
— There will be great disputes, including physical assault. 


Rahu-Venus-Rahu : 9 Feb 2014 to 21 Jul 2014 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Rahu in the Antar Dasha of Venus, there may be conflicts with women, 
sudden fear and problems from those in authority. 
— Problems from the enemies are foreseen. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 128 


ASHTAKAVARGA SYSTEM OF PREDICTION - Part -40 


By Dr. E.S. Neelakantan 


In our earlier article, we discussed threadbare the chart of Mrs. Indira Gandhi, 
former Prime Minister of India and understood the astrological reasons for various 
events in her life. In this write- up, we will discuss the chart of American inventor, 
entrepreneur and pioneer of Personal Computer revolution, Steve Jobs. 


Steve Jobs was born in San Francisco, USA at 7.15 P M on 24" February, 1955. 
Before we discuss his chart, we will take a look at the number of bindus obtained 
by each planet in BAV chart. 


Table 1 


Planet Dots 
Sun 3 
Moon 5 
Mars 4 
Mercury | 8 
3 
5 
4 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


On reading Table 1, one can easily make out the fact that Mercury does 
exceptionally well with 8 dots (bindus). Mercury is also seen to occupy a house 
with 35 bindus in SAV chart. As lord of 2and 11,Mercury is bound to promote 
prosperity especially through computer technology (for which Mercury is the 
karaka). Mercury’s merit is further augmented by its retrograde status and 
occupying a house (Capricorn) whose lord Saturn is exalted. As mentioned in 
Uttara kalamritam, a retograde planet gives effects of a planet in exaltation. 


A Parasari Raja Yoga is formed by the mutual aspect between Jupiter, a trinal lord 
and Venus, a quadrant lord - what makes this yoga powerful is that both planets 
are Vargottama and occupy key houses viz. 5"" (House of poorvapunya) and 11", 

( Wish fulfillment ). The fact that both Jupiter and Venus occupy the same degree 
(27" degree) makes it, a sure indicator of beneficial effects. 


Lagna, 5" and 9" are the crucial houses in any chart. They bestow both material 
and spiritual benefits on the chart holder. In Jobs’ chart, lagna lord Sun aspects 
lagna, 5" lord Jupiter aspects 5, while the 9" lord Mars occupies its own house, as 
a Yogakaraka. Mars as 2™ Jord from Moon, in own house is not only a case of 
Dhana yoga but also one indicating Sunapha yoga. 


Jupiter is the planet of knowledge while Ketu denotes wisdom. In many people 
who are into research one can find a conjunction between Jupiter and Ketu. 
In Jobs’ chart, this yoga is particular good as it occurs in the 11"A good chart is 
one wherein Jupiter is well placed, aspects key houses and key planets. In 
Jobs’ chart, Jupiter occupies a key house,the 11", forms a yoga with Ketu thereby 
rendering it harmless, aspects Saturn and Sun, investing them with good features. 
Houses 3 (clients), 5 (Children), 7 (spouse) and 11 (wish fulfillment) are key 
houses in any chart and in Jobs’ chart these houses are fully blessed by Jupiter. Let 
us now have a look at the SAV chart of Steve Jobs. 


Table -2 
24 )/28 |37 | 29 
22, 19 
SAV 
35 Chart 30 
27 |32 |31 as 


The house that obtains the maximum number of bindus is the House of profession 
(10" house) with 37 bindus, while the house which denotes failure (12" house) has 
very few bindus viz.19. This shows that Jobs was destined to succeed. How else 
do you justify his getting just 19 bindus in 12" house? The total number of bindus 
in the SAV chart is 337, which gives it an average of 28 bindus per house. Any 
house which has more than 28 bindus favours the native, while those with bindus 
fewer than 28 are adverse. 


If we consider the combined effect of houses 9,10 and 11, they should get at least 
84 bindus (28 x 3),if you go by the above argument. In Steve’s chart ,Houses 
9,10 and 11 put together get 93 bindus. This is due to the fact that house 9 and 


11 have identical number of bindus viz.28 — which is the cut off limit we 
discussed, while 10" has 37 bindus. 


Let us examine the Dasa-bhukti of Steve Jobs and how it influenced his life. 


Table 3 
Planet From To 
Saturn 24.02.1955 06.03.1958 
Mercury | 06.03.1958 07.12.1974 
Ketu 07.12.1974 31.10.1981 
Venus 31.10.1981 18.07.2001 
Sun 18.07.2001 17.06.2007 
Moon 17.06.2007 25.04.2017 
# 


Note: # (Steve Jobs died on 05.10.2011 in Moon Dasa, Saturn Bhukti.) 


*E According to Western system one year equals 365.25 days which is the time 
taken for the earth to go round the Sun once. However according to Vedic 
Astrology one year equals 360 days. The Dasha sequence of Steve Jobs is 
computed on the 360-day system as mentioned in the texts on Vedic Astrology. 


Steve Jobs was given in adoption to Paul Jobs and Clara Jobs about whom he 
(Steve Jobs) emphatically said “ They were my parents 1000%” I, for one, could 


think of the following reasons why he lost touch with his biological parents. 


a) Moon in 8 in debilitated amsa 


b) Sun in the house of his bitter enemy, Saturn in Rasi and amsa 


c) Though Mars as lord of 4 and 9 is in the gh house, it is technically in the gn 
bhava, an unfavourable placement. 


d) Mercury as lord of 2 (denoting family) is in 6 


According to Mantreswara, there are three combinations for adoption. 


1) When Sun and Moon occupy trinal signs from Mars and Saturn, the child 
will be abandoned by its biological parents. When they are aspected by 
Jupiter, the child born lives a long happy life. (Phala Deepika, X VI/24) 


2) When Saturn occupies the 9" in a movable sign, unaspected by benefics or 
if Sun is in a dustana, the chart holder lives under a foster father. 
(Ibid, X VI/25) 


3) If the 9" house or its lord is in a movable sign associated with or aspected by 
Saturn and lord of 12 is powerful, the chart holder will be given in adoption. 
(Ibid, XVI/26) 


The essence of first rule is satisfied in Steve Jobs chart — Sun is in a trinal sign 
from Saturn aspected by Jupiter. The second rule stipulates that Saturn should be 
in a movable sign — Steve Jobs satisfies this but does not fulfill other conditions. 
Rule three is partially satisfied as Mars as lord of 9 is in a movable sign aspected 
by Saturn but lord of 12, but Moon is not powerful, so that we can say that the 
second limb of the rule is not satisfied . Overall, Steve Jobs comes under 
unfortunate astrological combinations under which a child is deprived of 
parental love and care. But Sun influenced by Jupiter ensured that his foster 
parents were more devoted to him than his real parents. 


The dasa of Ketu started in 1974 and it was approximately during this period 
Steve Jobs came to India to visit the Ashram of Neem Karoli Baba. Steve Jobs 
also become a serious practitioner of Zen Buddhism and also experimented with 
psychedelics. After staying in India for seven months, Steve returned to U S. 

The connection between spirituality and Ketu can easily be understood from 
Jobs’ chart as Ketu denotes pursuit of the occult,mysticism and spirituality in 
an esoteric sense. 


Venus dasha started in 1981. It was in 1985, Job founded NeXT computer. In 
1996, Apple announced that it would buy NeXT computer for 427 $ millions. This 
event took place in Venus dasha and Saturn Bukti, with Venus owning 10 and 
Saturn owning 7 (10" from10th). Some of the key inventions of Steve Jobs happen 
to be the iMac in 1998,1Pod in October 2001, iPhone in 2005. Most of Steve’s 
inventions came either in the dasha of Venus or in the beginning stages of Sun 
dasha. In this context, I am reminded of a joke. A family was discussing over 
dinner, the various gadgets they had bought. The wife was praising her iphone, 
son was talking about his ipad and the daughter was boasting over her ipod. The 
husband was regretfully saying, “I paid” as if to mean, all these expensive gadgets 
were pinching his pocket! 


In October 2003,Steve Jobs was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in Sun dasha, 
Jupiter bhukti. Though the prognosis came in Jupiter bukti, the trouble should 
have begun in Rahu, in my humble opinion. Venus denotes pancreas - so also the 
5" house. The position of Venus ( denoting pancreas) with Rahu (denoting 
abnormal growths, tumors or cancer) in the 5" (denoting pancreas) had led to this 
malignant condition. 


Lagna lord in a weak house (being Sun in Aquarius) with the 8" lord Jupiter 
rendered strong (being in vargottama) was bound to curtail Steve Jobs’ longevity. 
Recollect the rule that a strong lagna lord together with a weak 8"" lord promotes 
longevity while Steve Jobs is at the receiving end with exactly the opposite 
situation - weakness of lagna lord and strength of 8" lord. Transit Saturn in the 
7" from natal Moon( causing kantaka Shani) signalled the end of Steve. 


Jobs died in Moon dasha, Saturn bhukti and Saturn Anthra — both planets 
becoming strong indicators of his exit from the world. 


While releasing his obituary, Apple Inc. in a statement said: ‘“ We are deeply 
saddened to announce that Steve Jobs passed away today. Steve’s brilliance, 
passion and energy were the source of countless innovations that enrich and 
improve all of our lives. The world is immeasurably better because of Steve. His 
greatest love was for his wife, Laurene and his family, our hearts go to them and 
to all who were touched by his extraordinary gifts”. 


By studying the horoscope of Steve Jobs, one can get excellent insight into the 
workings of Astrology especially with respect to the role of natural benefics in 


promoting the significations of the house they happen to occupy, through mutual 
relationships. 


DE Se i de Se Se ee ee ee 


STEVE JOBS 
24 February 1955 « 19:15:00 hrs. * San Francisco, USA 


Provided by 


Parashara Software Pvt. Ltd. 


H-13, Chitranjan Marg, 
C-Scheme, Jaipur-302001 
Ph: 0141- 2364129, 23602084 
Fax: 2373696 
indiasales@parashara.com 
Processed On: 15 March 2013 


STEVE JOBS 


Hindu Calendar 


Birth Particulars 


Sex 

Date of birth 
Day of birth 
Time of birth 
Ishtkaal 
Place of birth 
Country 


Latitude 
Longitude 

Time zone 
War/daylight Corr. 
GMT at birth 
LMT Corr. 

Local Mean Time 
Sidereal Time 
Sunsign (Western) 
Lagna 


Male 

24 February 1955 
Thursday 
19:15:00 hrs 
30:54:33 ghatis 
San Francisco 
USA 


37N46'30 
122W25'06 
08:00:00 hrs 
00:00:00 hrs 
03:15:00 hrs 
-00:09:40 hrs 
19:05:20 hrs 
05:22:11 hrs 
Pisces 

Leo 29:03:23 


Family Particulars 


Grand Father 
Father 
Mother 
Caste 
Gotra 


Chakra 


Varna 
Vashya 
. Nakshatra - Pada 
Yoni 

. Rashish 

Gana 

Rashi 

. Nadi 

Varga 

Yunja 

Hansak (Tatwa) 
Naamakshar 

Paya (Rashi) 

Paya (Nakshatra) 


SIAR RWS 


Avakhada 


Brahmin 
Jalachara 
Uttarabhadra - 4 
Gau 
Jupiter 
Manushya 
Pisces 
Madhya 
Sarp 
Antya 
Jala 

Jya 

Iron 
Copper 


Tamil Calendar 


Tamil Year 
Tamil Month 
Tamil Weekday 
Tamil Date 


JAYA 

MAASI 
Vyaazha-kizhamai 
12 


Chaitradi System 


Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 
Kartikadi System 

Vikram Samvat 
Lunar Month 
Saka Samvat 
Sun's Ayana/Gola 
Season 
Paksha 
Hindu Weekday 


Tithi at sunrise 
Tithi ending time 


Tithi at birth 


Nak. At sunrise 
Nak. ending time 


Nak. at birth 


Yoga at sunrise 
Yoga ending time 


Yoga at birth 


Karana at sunrise: 
Karana ending time: 


Karana at birth 


Sunrise Time 
Degree 

Sunset Time 
Degree 

Next - day Sunrise 


Moon Nak. entry 
Moon Nak. exit 
Bhayat 

Bhabhog 

Dasha at Birth 
Balance of Dasha 
Ayanamsha 


2011 
Phalguna 


2011 
Phalguna 


1876 
Uttarayan/Dakshin 
Vasant 

Shukla 

Thursday 


Shukla Tritiya 
02:31:55 hrs 
49:6:51 ghatis 
Shukla Tritiya 


U.Bhadra. 
22:53:47 hrs 
40:1:31 ghatis 
Uttarabhadra 


Sadhya 
13:24:35 hrs 
16:18:32 ghatis 
Shubha 


Taitila 
15:36:15 
21:47:41 ghatis 
Gara 


06:53:10 hrs 
Aqu 11:59:39 
17:53:25 hrs 
Aqu 12:27:24 
Fri 06:51:51 hrs. 


24 Feb 1955 00:15:03 
24 Feb 1955 22:53:47 


47:29:52 ghatis 
9:6:57 ghatis 
Saturn-Rahu-Sun 
Saturn 3y Om 12d 
-23:14:08 Lahiri 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 2 


STEVE JOBS (3 Birth Chart 


24 February 1955 ¢ Thursday ¢ 19:15:00 hrs * San Francisco, California, USA 


Ke 10:10 


Mo 14:30 Ma 05:51 
JuR 27:16 


Su 12:30 


MeR 21:07 AS 29:03 


Ve 27:56 
Gk 13:09 Sa 27:55 
Ra 10:10 


Moon Navamsha 


Mo 


Su 


MeR 


Ra Gk 
Ve 


Planet R/C Sign Degree Speed Nakshatra Pada RL Status SB 


Lagna Leo 29:03:23 Uttara Phalg. 1 Su 
Sun Aqu 12:30:45 01:00:22 Shatabhishak 2 Sa Grt.En. 1.25 
Moon Pis 14:30:42 14:10:32 Uttarabhadra 4 Ju Frnd. 1.62 
Mars Ari 05:51:17 00:42:06 Ashwini 2 Ma Moolt. 1.53 
Mercury R Cap 21:07:34 -00:01:59 Shravana 4 Sa Frnd. 0.99 

3 

1 

3 

4 

2 


Jupiter R Gem 27:16:20 -00:03:47 Punarvasu Me Grt.En. 1.38 
Venus Sag 27:56:10 01:08:12 Uttarashadha Ju Enemy 1.18 
Saturn Lib 27:55:37 00:00:25 Vishakha Ve Exalt. 1.63 
Ju Neutr. 
Me Neutr. 


Rahu Sag 10:10:27 -00:09:34 Moola 
Ketu Gem 10:10:27 -00:09:34 Ardra 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 «3 


STEVE JOBS (3 Chandra, Navamsha and Bhava 


Moon Chart Navamsha 


Ma 


Ke Su 


Ve As 


Bhava(Sripati) 


Ke 


Ra Gk Sa 


Bhava Spashta - Sripati System 


Bhava Number Bhava Arambha Bhava Madhya Bhava Antya 
House beginning Middle of House House ending 
First Leo 13:53:37 Leo 29:03:23 Vir = 13:53:37 
. Second Vir = 13:53:37 Vir = 28:43:52 Lib 13:34:06 
Third Lib 13:34:06 Lib 28:24:21 Sco 13:14:35 
Fourth Sco 13:14:35 Sco 28:04:49 Sag 13:14:35 
Fifth 13:14:35 Sag 28:24:21 Cap 13:34:06 
Sixth 13:34:06 Cap 28:43:52 Aqu 13:53:37 
. Seventh 13:53:37 Aqu 29:03:23 Pis 13:53:37 
Eight i 13:53:37 Pis 28:43:52 Ari 13:34:06 
. Ninth 1 13:34:06 Ari = 28:24:21 Tau 13:14:35 
10. Tenth 13:14:35 28:04:49 Gem 13:14:35 
11. Eleventh 13:14:35 28:24:21 Can 13:34:06 
12. Twelfth 13:34:06 28:43:52 Leo 13:53:37 


CAN AKWRWNE 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 4 


STEVE JOBS (3 Sudarshan Chakra 


Sudarshan Chakra 


Outer Circle : Surya Chart 
Middle Circle : Chandra Chart 
Inner Circle : Birth Chart 


Sudarshan Chakra represents the comparative positions of the planets in 
the Sun Chart, the Moon Chart and the Birth Chart simultaneously, 
from outer to inner circle respectively. 

To study a house, consider the signs in all the three charts simultaneously. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °5 


STEVE JOBS 


Divisional Charts #1 


MeR 


JuR Sa Ve 
As Mo 


Ma MeR Ra 
Ke Su Gk 


Ra Gk 
Ve 


Sa 


Dreshkana (happiness siblin 


Chaturthamsha (de 


stiny) 


Ra Gk 
Ma As 


Ra JuR 
Gk 


Ma 


Su As 


Ke 


Saptamsha (children) 


Navamsh 


a (spouse 


Gk 


Sa Su 


Ma 


Ke Su 


JuR Mo 


MeR 


Ve As 


Mo 


Dashamsha (great successes) 


Dwadashamsha (parents) 


JuR Ra 
Mo 


MeR Gk 


As Ma 


Ra JuR 


Gk 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 +6 


STEVE JOBS (3 Divisional Charts #2 
Vimshamsha (spiritual progress) 


Shodashamsha (conveyances) 


MeR Ra Ke Sa Gk Mo MeR 


JuR Su Gk Ma 
Ve Mo As Ma 


Su 


AS Sa 


Chaturvimshamsha (knowledge) Saptavimshamsha (strength) 


RaKe | JuR | “Aecve Ve 


AS 


Ma MeR Sa JuR Su Ma 


Trimshamsha (misfortunes) Kvedamsha (ausp. inausp. effects) 


Sa Ve Mo 
TR | As 


Ra Ke JuR Sa 
Su Gk Ve As Ma 


Akshavedamsha (all areas) Shashtiamsha (all areas) 


a gt JuR Ve Su Ma Sa 


Gk Ke 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 *7 


STEVE JOBS (3 Sub-Planets 


Upagrahas or Sub-planets 
Gulikaadi Group 


Birth between sun-set and midnight * Sunrise-Sunset : 06:53-17:53 * Astrological Weekday : Thursday 


Upagraha Lord Duration of Beginning (Parashara Method) Ending (Kalidasa method) 


Upageaha Sign Degree Nakshatra P Sign Degree Nakshatra P 


Kaalavela Sun 03:37-05:14 Sag 13:09:26 Moola 4 Cap 09:18:55 U.Shad. 
Paridhi Mon — 17:53-19:30 Leo 12:27:14 Magha 4 Vir 02:16:06 U-Phalg. 
Mrityu Mar 19:30-21:08 Vir 02:16:06 U-.Phalg. 2 Vir 22:08:40 Hasta 
Ardhaprahara Mer 21:08-22:45 Vir 22:08:40 Hasta 4 Lib 11:50:13 Swati 
Yamakantaka Jup 22:45-00:22 Lib 11:50:13 Swati 2 Sco 01:22:47 Vishakha 
Kodanda Ven 00:22-01:59 Sco 01:22:47 Vishakha 4 Sco 21:21:28 Jyeshtha 
Gulika Sat 01:59-03:37 Sco 21:21:28 Jyeshtha 2 Sag 13:09:26 Moola 


Dhoomadi Group 
Upagraha Lord Sign Degree Nakshatra 


Dhooma Mar Gem 25:50:45 Punarvasu 
Vyatipata Rah Cap 04:09:15 U.Shad. 
Parivesha Mon Can 04:09:15 Pushya 
Inderchapa Ven Sag 25:50:45 P.Shad. 
Upaketu Ket Cap 12:30:45 Shravana 


Upagraha Chart (Beginning Time) | Upagraha Chart (Ending Time) 


Dh Dh 


Pv 


Ka Vy As Ka Vy 


Uk Uk 


Gk Cp Pr Mr Gk Cp | Ym Ko 


Special Lagnas and Points 


Bhava Lagna Leo 17:27:02 Yogi Point 00:21:26 Tau 
Hora Lagna Aqu 22:54:26 Yogi Su 

Ghatika Lagna Vir 09:16:36 Avayogi/Duplicate Yogi Sa/Ve 

Indu Lagna Aqu_ 15:00:00 64th Navamsha (Moon/AscAquarius/Pisces 
Beeja Sphuta Aqu 07:43:15 22nd Dreshkana (Asc/MootScorpio/Aquarius 
Birth chart/Navamsha odd/odd 100% (good) Sarpa Dreshkana 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 *8 


STEVE JOBS (3 Birth Charts 


Date of birth : 24 February 1955, Thursday Longitude/Latitude :  122W25'06 37N46'30 
Time of birth : 19:15:00 hrs Time zone : 08:00:00 hrs 
Place of birth : San Francisco, California, USA DST : 00:00:00 hrs 


Birth Chart Moon Chart Sun Chart 


Mo Ma Mo Ma Mo Ma 


Su Su 


MeR MeR 


Ra Gk Ra Gk 
Ve Ve 


Sripati Bhava Equal Bhava 


Ma Mo Mo Ma 


Su 


Su MeR MeR 


Ra Gk Ra Gk 
Ve |RaGk!| Sa Nie Sa MeR Ve Sa 


Arudha Lagna Chart Karkamsha in Birth Chart Karkamsha in Navamsha 


Mo Ma Mo Ma Ke JuR Ma /|JuR Sa 


Ra MeR 
Su Gk 


MeR Ke Su 


Roe Ve As| Mo 


Hora Lagna Ghatika Lagna 


Mo Ma Mo Ma 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 °9 


STEVE JOBS 


Planetary Friendship 


Naisargik Maitri Chakra (Natural Relationship) 


Friends 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Jupiter 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Mercury 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Saturn 


Mercury 
Venus 
Rahu 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Enemies 


Neutral 


Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Rahu 
Ketu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Mercury 
Rahu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rah Ket 


Mercury 
Venus 


Sun 
Moon 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Ketu 


Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Jupiter 
Mercury 


Tatkalik Maitri Chakra (Temporal Relationship) 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Saturn 


Rahu 


Friends 


Enemies 


Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Ven Rah 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Ketu 


Sun 

Mar Mer 
Jup Ven 
Rah Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 
Jup Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mar Ven 
Sat Rah 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Moon 
Mars 


Sun 
Mercury 
Ven Sat 
Rah Ket 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Mercury 
Venus 
Rahu 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Jup Ket 


Sun 
Moon 
Mercury 
Saturn 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Ketu 


Sun 
Mercury 
Jup Ven 
Sat Rah 


Panchadha Maitri Chakra (Compound Relationship) 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Fast Friends 


Sun 
Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Ketu 


Sun 
Venus 


Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 
Saturn 


Mercury 
Venus 
Rahu 


Friends 


Neutral 


Mercury 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Rahu 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Venus 


Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Mercury 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Venus 


Enemies 


Bitter 
Enemies 


Jupiter 
Ketu 


Mercury 
Venus 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Jupiter 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 10 


STEVE JOBS Shodashvarga Summary 


Shodashvarga Summary 


Signs occupied by planets in Shodashvargas 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars’ Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu _ Ketu 


Janma Leo Aqu Pis Ari Cap Gem Sag Lib Sag Gem 
Hora Can Leo Can Leo Leo Can Can Can Leo Leo 
Dreshkana Ari Gem Can Ari Vir Aqu Leo Gem Ari Lib 
Chaturthamsha Tau Tau Gem Ari Can Pis Vir Can Pis Vir 
Saptamsha Aqu Ari Sag Tau Sco Sag Gem Ari Aqu Leo 
Navamsha Sag Cap Sco Tau Can Gem Sag Gem Can Cap 
Dashamsha Tau Gem Pis Tau Ari Pis Vir Can Pis Vir 
Dwadashamsha Can Can Leo Gem Vir Ari Sco Vir Ari Lib 
Shodashamsha Sco Aqu Can Can Pis Aqu Aqu Gem Tau 
Vimshamsha Can Leo Tau Can Gem Aqu Aqu Lib Aqu Aqu 
Chaturvimshamsha Can Gem Gem Sag Sco Tau Gem Gem Ari Ari 
Saptavimshamsha Gem Vir Aqu Vir Aqu Lib Tau Sco Cap Can 
Trimshamsha Lib Sag Pis Aqu Cap Lib Lib Lib Sag Sag 
Khavedamsha Gem Leo Tau Sco Aqu Ari Tau Tau Tau Tau 
Akshavedamsha  Pis Aqu Vir Sag Sco Ari Tau Vir Pis Pis 
Shashtiamsha Gem Pis Leo Pis Can Sag Can Tau Leo Aqu 


Dignities of planets in Shodashvargas 


Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


Janma Grt.En. Frnd. Moolt. — Frnd. Grt.En. Enemy — Exalt. Neutr. Neutr. 
Hora Own Own Neutr. Neutr. Exalt. Grt.En. Grt.En.  Neutr. Neutr. 
Dreshkana Frnd. Own Own Exalt. Enemy  Neutr. Grt.Fr. Neutr. Neutr. 
Chaturthamsha Grt.En. Grt.Fr. Own Neutr. Own Debil. Neutr. Neutr. Neutr. 
Saptamsha Exalt. Enemy — Frnd. Enemy Own Neutr. Debil. Own Neutr. 
Navamsha Grt.En. Debil. Enemy Grt.En.  Neutr. Enemy Grt.Fr.  Neutr. Neutr. 
Dashamsha Frnd. Enemy Enemy  Frnd. Own Debil. Grt.En. Neutr. Neutr. 
Dwadashamsha Grt.Fr. Grt.Fr.  Neutr. Exalt. Grt.Fr. Enemy  Neutr. Neutr. Neutr. 
Shodashamsha Grt.En. Own Debil. Debil. Enemy  Neutr. Grt.Fr. xalt. Debil. 
Vimshamsha Moolt. Exalt. Debil. Own Enemy  Neutr. Exalt. Neutr. 
ChaturvimshamshaEnemy Neutr. Neutr. Frnd. Neutr. Neutr. Neutr. Jeutr. Neutr. 
Saptavimshamsha Enemy Frnd. Grt.En. — Frnd. Grt.En. Own Neutr. Jeutr. Neutr. 
Trimshamsha Grt.Fr. Enemy Enemy  Frnd. Grt.En. Moolt. — Exalt. : Moolt. 
Khavedamsha Own Exalt. Own Frnd. Neutr. Own Neutr. : Debil. 
Akshavedamsha Grt.En. Grt.Fr. Neutr. Frnd. Neutr. Own Grt.Fr. Jeutr. Own 

Shashtiamsha Grt.Fr. _ Neutr. Grt.Fr. _ Neutr. Own Neutr. Grt.Fr. veutr, Neutr. 


Vimshopaka Bala 


Mercury Jupiter Saturn Rahu Ketu 
Shadavarga 9 7 
Saptavarga 8 
Dashavarga 7 
Shodashavarga 7 


Dispositors in 6 divisions (Shad Varga) 


Sun Moon Mars Jupiter Saturn 


Sa(2) | Mo(2) Ma(2) Me (2) Me(3) 
Mo(1) Ju(2)— Su(1) Mo(1) Ve (2) 
Me(1) Ma(1) Me(1) Ma(1) Mo(1) 
Ju(l) Su(1)__-Ve(1) Ve (1) 
Su(1) Sa(1) Sa (1) 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 11 


STEVE JOBS 


Ochcha Bala 
Sapta-vargaja Bala 
Ojhayugma bala 
Kendradi Bala 
Drekkana Bala 

. Sthana Bala 


. Dig-Bala 


Sun 


40.84 
101.25 
15.00 
60.00 
0.00 
217.09 


24.81 


Moon 


43.84 
142.50 
30.00 
30.00 
0.00 
246.34 


24.52 


Shad Bala 
Mars Mercury Jupiter 


37.38 
116.25 
15.00 
15.00 
15.00 
198.63 


42.59 


17.96 
135.00 
0.00 
15.00 
0.00 
167.96 


12.64 


57.42 
84.38 
30.00 
30.00 

0.00 

201.80 


39.41 


Venus 


30.31 
78.75 
0.00 
30.00 
15.00 
154.06 


50.05 


Shad Bala and Bhava Bala 


Saturn 


57.36 
116.25 
30.00 
15.00 
0.00 
218.61 


19.62 


Nata-Unnata Bala 
Paksha Bala 
Tri-Bhaga Bala 
Varsha Bala 
Maasa Bala 
Vaara Bala 
Hora Bala 
Ayana Bala 
Yuddha Bala 

3. Kaala Bala 


4. Chesta Bala 
5. Naisargika Bala 


25.86 
49.33 
0.00 
0.00 
30.00 
0.00 
0.00 
17.68 


0.00 
122.86 


17.68 
60.00 


34.14 
10.67 
60.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
60.00 
25.96 


0.00 
190.77 


10.67 
51.42 


34.14 
49.33 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
44.58 


0.00 
128.06 


28.26 
17.16 


60.00 
10.67 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
51.45 


0.00 
122.12 


53.12 
25.74 


25.86 
10.67 
60.00 
0.00 
0.00 
45.00 
0.00 
58.10 


0.00 
199.62 


49.77 
34.26 


25.86 
10.67 
0.00 
15.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
2.02 


0.00 
53.55 


45.44 
42.84 


34.14 
49.33 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
53.37 


0.00 
136.84 


43.98 
8.58 


6. Drig Bala 


45.02 


58.74 


43.82 


34.13 


13.44 


42.00 


59.95 


Total Shadbala 


Shadbala in Rupas 
Minimum requirements 390 360 300 420 390 330 300 


% of required 


487.45 
8.12 


1.25 


582.46 
9.71 


1.62 


458.52 
7.64 


1.53 


415.71 
6.93 


0.99 


538.30 
8.97 


1.38 


387.94 
6.47 


1.18 


487.58 
8.13 


1.63 


Sthana Bala % req. 
Dig-Bala % req 
Kaala Bala % req. 
Chesta Bala % req. 


1.32 
0.71 
1.10 
0.35 


1.85 
0.49 
1.91 
0.36 


2.07 
1.42 
1.91 
0.71 


1.02 
0.36 
1.09 
1.06 


1.22 
1.13 
1.78 
1.00 


1.16 
1.00 
0.54 
1.51 


2.28 
0.65 
2.04 
1.10 


Drig-Bala % req. 0.59 0.65 2.23 1.72 1.94 0.05 2.67 


Relative Rank 


2 


2 


3 


7 


4 


6 


1 


Ishta Phala 
Kashta Phala 


31.38 
28.62 


27.25 
32.75 


32.82 
27.18 


35.54 
24.46 


53.60 
6.40 


37.87 
22.13 


50.67 
9.33 


Bhava Bala 


Rashi 
Degree 


Vv ViI 


Vil 


IX 


Ari 
29 


Tau 
29 


xX Xi 
Gem 


From Lord 
Dig Bala 
Drishti 
Planets in 
Day-Night 


Bhava Bala Total 575 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


458 387 


50 
27 
-60 
15 


491 


60 
6 
0 

15 


470 


HP3 + 12 


STEVE JOBS (3 Aspects on Planets and Bhavas 


Aspects on Planets 


Aspecting Planets 


Aspected Sun Moon Mars’ MercuryJupiter Venus Saturn Rahu 
Planets 312:30 344:30 05:51 291:07 87:16 267:56 207:55 250:10 


Sun - - - 4/4 1/4 1/2 1/4 
(52) (7) (7) (7) 
Moon 1/4 3/4 - 3/4 
(42) (31) (13) (47) 
- 1/2 4/4 4/4 
(10) (41) (15) (57) 
Mercury 1/4 3/4 3/4 
(7) (48) (48) 
Jupiter 1/4 1/2 
(47) (30) 
Venus 1/2 4/4 
(18) (59) 
Saturn 4/4 
(60) 
Rahu 1/2 
(27) 


Ketu 1/4 . 
(21) = (10) 


Mars 


Aspects on Bhavas 


Aspecting Planets 


Aspected Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu 
Bhava 312:30 344:30 05:51 291:07 87:16 267:56 207:55 250:10 


First 51 29 6 4l 16 29 - 4l 
Second 36 52 46 26 45 14 
Third 21 37 60 11 58 - 
Fourth 36 - 3 

Fifth 18 59 

Sixth 3 - 45 
Seventh 58 

Eighth 14 

Ninth - 

Tenth 

Eleventh 

Twelfth 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 13 


STEVE JOBS 


Planet 


Jagradadi 
Avastha 
(set of 3) 


Graha Avasthas - Planets and their Moods 


Baladi 
Avastha 
(set of 5) 


Lajjitadi Avastha 


(set of 6) 


Deeptadi 
Avastha 
(set of 9) 


Planetary Avasthas 


Shyanadi 
Avastha 
(set of 12) 


Sun Sushupti 
(State of sleep) 


Moon Swapna 


(Dreamful) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Yuvavastha 
(Adulthood) 


Kshudit Mudit 


Mudit 


Khala 
(Wicked) 


Shanta 
(Quiescent) 


Upavesha 
(Sitting) 


Nidra 
(Sleep) 


Mars Jagrad 


(Wakefulness) 


Balavastha 
(Childhood) 


Garvit 


Swastha 
(Stable) 


Agama 
(Arriving) 


Mercury Swapna 


(Dreamful) 


Jupiter 


Sushupti 
(State of sleep) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Mudit 


Kshudit Mudit 


Shanta 
(Quiescent) 


Khala 
(Wicked) 


Gamana 
(Departing) 


Gamenechchha 
(Eager to go) 


Venus Swapna 


(Dreamful) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Lajjit Kshudit Mudit 


Dukhi 
(Tormented) 


Agama 
(Arriving) 


Saturn Jagrad 


(Wakefulness) 


Rahu Swapna 


(Dreamful) 


Mrita 
(State of death) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Garvit Mudit 


Lajjit Mudit 


Deepta 
(Luminous) 


Deena 
(Deficient) 


Upavesha 
(Sitting) 


Nidra 
(Sleep) 


Ketu Swapna 


(Dreamful) 


Kumaravastha 
(Adolescence) 


Mudit 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Deena 
(Deficient) 


Upavesha 
(Sitting) 


HP3 + 14 


HP3 +15 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #1 


00 xt 00 00 CN I~ SF \O 


thr Or oot 


49 


La tl Oh re ae a) 


39 


CO SF 00M CO 00 \O[~ 


10 


iv) 
ep 
i) 
> 
& 
i.) 
~ 
co 
N 
: 
c= 
aa 
i} 
& 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
i) 
oy 
S 
ay 
io) 
— 
co 
nN 
< 


aOR 0O000OrK-s 


oonnoOnnO 


Saw Oe 


Sa HOMO 


ooonmonoo 


hh) 


aon OOoCon 


sOCOnmnOoOr 


Sn ce coe cee oe coe 


an OOCOO 


ooonmonoo 


23 45 67 8 9 1011 


1 


=aOonmOonmOoooO 


one OONee 


Sqn OOO oe 


ooonmonoo 


oooonnon 


(on) hahaha hak) 


SE eh cee cee ee hen) 


ooonmonoo 


onnoOonoon 


ons OORNee 


ononmaToOoO 


10 11 12 


onooonoo 
oonmoocoo 
aon OoOoOn- 
ooonmoooo 
Saas soOO 
sOoOnmOnmoOor 
oooooooo 
sOCOCOoon-! 
aon oOOoO 
=sOConmOnoOr 


Sqn Ona ee 


141 2 


2345678 9 


SOm RHO 
an OOnOre 
ORO 
ocooooo7os 
a-OCConOones 
a a ee 
sOOCnOnmMeT 
Sn OOnOr- 
aA OnOnT oO 


oooconToen 


54 


STEVE JOBS 


1112123 45 678 9 
3237433267 4 4 {48 
5 45 4265 3 25 5 3 
12345678 9 
47443 045 

10 11 12 1 

8 23 555 442 65 5 


2 


1 


aH OOnRRHHO 


y 


Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 
Mercur 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 16 


Ashtakavarga - Bhinnashtaka #2 


WTOOorT~DN\OCOND 


56 


MmNOMNNNDCO 


52 


Ftorm Momo 


39 


WONNOMM™ Nt 


1011121 2 


i.e) 
ep 
i) 
> 
& 
i.) 
~ 
co 
N 
: 
c= 
aa 
i} 
& 
oO 
— 
nN 
ea) 
N 
i) 
oy 
S 
ay 
io) 
— 
co 
N 
< 


oOonaaeneOoOr 


(omy han heenhaeni een heee heen! 


=a OomOOCOoOooO 


oOoOnnROoOnOe 


Onn Onaee 


anon OCOrT- 


oon Onee 


oon OoOOoO 


an On eae 


conor Ooo 


on oOoonoO 


1011121 23 45 67 8 


ooooeeonns 


onoo-nOors 


oConnaaenHOoOr 


roOnmoOornrOoo- 


=OCOoOnmoOoTO 


eon CORNeSes 


=OCoOCOnnoO 


onoo.nOoers 


Onno ee 


aes OTOHO 


Sn On RORO 


1011121 2 3 4 5 6 


oonmnmoOonoo 
On nRORN ee 
oooooooo 
oonmoonor 
Conon One 
oncooo°ocoo 
aon OOCOoO 
sO sOoooco 
oonmooons 
hehe) 


onOnenOoOr 


15 3 0 6 3 


1011121 2 3 4 


aon OOO 
on OOonmO- 
ooonmoonns 
Ones HOO 
aT OOnmoOooO 
Onno sHO 
BO eae 
aOR ORS 
ononmonoo 
aA OOoOOoOnOe- 


on oOoooo 


STEVE JOBS 


3 45678 9 

3.3 4745 465 3 7 5 
5 55643 5 3 45 4 3 
45 3 3 3 3 

5 678 9 
4243 5 75 3 5 3 4 4 |49 


7 8 9 


oncoonmnorn sO COnmmnnO 


9 


Sign 
Totals 
Lagna 
Sion 
Totals 


Jupiter 
Sign 
Totals 
Sign 
Totals 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


STEVE JOBS Sarvashtaka & Chancha Chakra 


Sarvashtakvarga 


Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


10 11 12 
5 24 28 37 


22 


a) 


PAY MNB BW] NN] Re 
DARBRBRWAW/ A] WN 


27 


Ww | NwWwOanannnri| ws) do 


~— 
NY |_wWnwnpHBH) HH] W 


Co 
= | CWOWHHANYW] HY] A 


NY |-WOnNnonns|d| a 


BK 
WwW | AWUMNNN A] WwW] oo 


N 


NO | wnbpunrnre nb] nN! © 


wl) BRRABDBRWA) HB] A 
~ 


— 
WlwunnovwBhunp/n 


Nn 


N 
oo 
\o 
(eS) 
oO 


be) 
1,27 Ve 


3 Me 
45,35 
43° 


ae 34 36° 
5 22 52 
3/3319553\2 


Si 
a Ju Ma Su Ve Me Mo 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 17 


STEVE JOBS (3 Ashtakavarga - Reductions 


Before Reduction Trikona Reduction Ekadhipatya Reduction 


Sun 3 7 0 0 5 0 0 2 


0 0 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 2 
Sodhya Pinda 


Moon 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mars 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Mercury 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Jupiter 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Venus 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Saturn 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Lagna 


Rashi Pinda 
Graha Pinda 
Sodhya Pinda 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 18 


STEVE JOBS Divisional Charts - Ashtakavarga 


Divisional Charts - Ashtakavarga 


Birth chart Samudaya Ashtakavarga Hora (wealth) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


Mo Ma 24 28 37 25 32 49 


JuR Sa Ve 
As Mo 


IMa MeR Ra 


MeR Ke Su Gk 


Ra Gk 


Sa 27 32 31 33 24 27 
Ve 


Dreshkana (happiness siblings) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Saptamsha (children) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


Ra Gk 


Ma As Su Sa 19 32 28 Gk | SaSu | Ma 26 30 27 


Ke 31 26 19 JuR Mo} MeR 25 31 33 


Navamsha (spouse) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Dashamsha (great successes) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


Ma 33 34 30 Bre IMeR Gk As Ma} Su 32 24 28 


37 


Ve As| Mo 27 30 31 Ve Ke 28 21 25 


Dwadashamsha (parents) Samudaya Ashtakavarga Shodashamsha (conveyances) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


RaJuR| Gk 23 32 31 MeR Ra Ke Sa 22 29 29 


JuR Su 
Ve 


Ve Ke 26 24 24 As 39 30 22 


Trimshamsha (misfortun Samudaya Ashtakavarga Shashtiamsha (all areas) Samudaya Ashtakavarga 


32 18 31 Su Ma Sa 32 29 30 


Gk Ke 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 19 


STEVE JOBS 


Influence of Grahas on Physiology 


Planet 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Sookshma Scheme 


Body Part 


Navel 

Left chest 

Left cheek 

Right calf 

Left testicle 

Right knee 

Right testicle/ovary 
Right Heart 

Left arm 


Sthoola Scheme 


Planet 


Body Part Body Part 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Nakshatra Scheme 


Ankles Space below navel 
Feet Generative organs 
Head Thighs 

Knees Hip 

Arms Ankles 

Thighs Stomach 

Space below navel Arms 

Thighs Stomach 

Arms Ankles 


Health 


Planet Nakshatra 


Opinion 1 Opinion 2 


Sun Shatabhishak 
Moon Uttarabhadra 
Mars Ashwini 
Mercury Shravana 
Jupiter Punarvasu 
Venus Uttarashadha 
Saturn Vishakha 
Rahu Moola 

Ketu Ardra 


Chin Right thigh 

Sides of body Shins 

Knees Upper part of feet 
The two ears Genitals 

Fingers Nose 

Both thighs Waiste 

The two arms Breast 

Both feet Left side 

Hair Eyes 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 20 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari MD and AD 


Vimshottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Saturn (19y) 
From 0 yrs. to 3y0m 


Mercury (17y) 
From 3y0m to 19y9m 


: Saturn 3y 0m 12d 
: Sa-Ra-Su-Mo-Ma 


Ketu (7y) 
From 19y9m to 26y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 

Mercury 

Ketu 

Venus 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Rahu 24-02-1955 06-09-1955 


Jupiter 06-09-1955 06-03-1958 


Mercury 06-03-1958 20-07-1960 
Ketu 20-07-1960 12-07-1961 
Venus 12-07-1961 27-04-1964 
Sun 27-04-1964 27-02-1965 
Moon =. 27-02-1965 22-07-1966 
Mars 22-07-1966 14-07-1967 
Rahu 14-07-1967 17-01-1970 
17-01-1970 12-04-1972 
12-04-1972 07-12-1974 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Ketu 07-12-1974 03-05-1975 
Venus 03-05-1975 26-06-1976 
Sun 26-06-1976 30-10-1976 
Moon 30-10-1976 28-05-1977 
Mars 28-05-1977 22-10-1977 
Rahu 22-10-1977 04-11-1978 
04-11-1978 06-10-1979 
Saturn 06-10-1979 08-11-1980 
Mercury 08-11-1980 31-10-1981 


Jupiter 


Venus (20y) 
From 26y8m to 46y4m 


Sun (6y) 
From 46y4m to 52y3m 


Moon (10y) 
From 52y3mto 62y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 31-10-1981 12-02-1985 
Sun 12-02-1985 07-02-1986 
Moon 07-02-1986 30-09-1987 
Mars 30-09-1987 23-11-1988 
Rahu 23-11-1988 08-11-1991 
08-11-1991 25-06-1994 
Saturn 25-06-1994 08-08-1997 
Mercury 08-08-1997 24-05-2000 
Ketu 24-05-2000 18-07-2001 


Jupiter 


Sun 18-07-2001 03-11-2001 
Moon 03-11-2001 02-05-2002 
Mars 02-05-2002 05-09-2002 
Rahu 05-09-2002 26-07-2003 
26-07-2003 09-05-2004 
Saturn 09-05-2004 16-04-2005 
Mercury 16-04-2005 16-02-2006 
Ketu 16-02-2006 22-06-2006 
Venus 22-06-2006 17-06-2007 


Jupiter 


Moon — 17-06-2007 12-04-2008 
Mars 12-04-2008 08-11-2008 
Rahu 08-11-2008 02-05-2010 
02-05-2010 25-08-2011 
Saturn 25-08-2011 17-03-2013 
Mercury 17-03-2013 09-08-2014 
Ketu 09-08-2014 07-03-2015 
Venus 07-03-2015 27-10-2016 
Sun 27-10-2016 25-04-2017 


Jupiter 


Mars (7y) 
From 62y2m to 69y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Mars 25-04-2017 19-09-2017 


Rahu 19-09-2017 02-10-2018 
02-10-2018 03-09-2019 
Saturn 03-09-2019 06-10-2020 
Mercury 06-10-2020 28-09-2021 
Ketu 28-09-2021 22-02-2022 
Venus 22-02-2022 18-04-2023 
Sun 18-04-2023 22-08-2023 


Jupiter 


Moon — 22-08-2023 19-03-2024 


Rahu (18y) 
From 69y0m to 86y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 19-03-2024 16-11-2026 


16-11-2026 29-03-2029 
Saturn 29-03-2029 19-01-2032 
Mercury 19-01-2032 25-07-2034 
Ketu 25-07-2034 07-08-2035 
Venus 07-08-2035 22-07-2038 
Sun 22-07-2038 11-06-2039 
Moon 11-06-2039 02-12-2040 


Jupiter 


Mars 02-12-2040 15-12-2041 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Jupiter (16y) 


From 86y9m to 102y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


15-12-2041 22-01-2044 
Satumn 22-01-2044 22-07-2046 
Mercury 22-07-2046 15-10-2048 
Ketu 15-10-2048 16-09-2049 
Venus 16-09-2049 03-05-2052 
Sun 03-05-2052 15-02-2053 
Moon 15-02-2053 10-06-2054 
Mars 10-06-2054 12-05-2055 
Rahu 12-05-2055 22-09-2057 


Jupiter 


HP3 « 21 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #1 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Saturn-Saturn 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Saturn-Venus 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


Saturn-Mars 


Age: 0y0mto 3y 0m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Saturn-Mercury 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Saturn-Sun 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Saturn-Rahu 


Saturn Mahadasha 24-02-1955 to 06-03-1958 


Saturn-Ketu 
Antar __ Beginning 


Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 


Saturn-Moon 
Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 


Saturn-Jupiter Oy6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Rahu 

Jupiter 

Saturn 

Mercury 

Ketu 

Venus 

Sun 24-02-1955 13-04-1955 
Moon 13-04-1955 08-07-1955 
Mars 08-07-1955 06-09-1955 


Jupiter 06-09-1955 05-01-1956 
Saturn 05-01-1956 29-05-1956 
Mercury 29-05-1956 05-10-1956 
Ketu 05-10-1956 27-11-1956 
Venus 27-11-1956 28-04-1957 
Sun 28-04-1957 13-06-1957 
Moon 13-06-1957 28-08-1957 
Mars 28-08-1957 20-10-1957 
Rahu 20-10-1957 06-03-1958 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 22 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Mercury Mahadasha 06-03-1958 to 07-12-1974 


Mercury-Mercury  3y0m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 06-03-1958 07-07-1958 
Ketu 07-07-1958 26-08-1958 
Venus 26-08-1958 18-01-1959 
Sun 18-01-1959 02-03-1959 
02-03-1959 13-05-1959 
13-05-1959 03-07-1959 
03-07-1959 10-11-1959 
10-11-1959 05-03-1960 
05-03-1960 20-07-1960 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury-Sun 9y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 27-04-1964 12-05-1964 


12-05-1964 07-06-1964 
07-06-1964 24-06-1964 
24-06-1964 09-08-1964 
09-08-1964 19-09-1964 
Saturn 19-09-1964 07-11-1964 
Mercury 07-11-1964 20-12-1964 
Ketu 20-12-1964 07-01-1965 
Venus 07-01-1965 27-02-1965 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mercury-Rahu 12y4m 


Age:3y0mto 19y 9m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mercury-Ketu 5y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 20-07-1960 10-08-1960 
Venus 10-08-1960 08-10-1960 
Sun 08-10-1960 26-10-1960 
26-10-1960 25-11-1960 
25-11-1960 16-12-1960 
16-12-1960 07-02-1961 
07-02-1961 27-03-1961 
Saturn 27-03-1961 22-05-1961 
Mercury 22-05-1961 12-07-1961 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mercury-Moon 10y0m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


27-02-1965 10-04-1965 
10-04-1965 10-05-1965 
10-05-1965 26-07-1965 
26-07-1965 02-10-1965 
Saturn 02-10-1965 21-12-1965 
Mercury 21-12-1965 04-03-1966 
Ketu 04-03-1966 02-04-1966 
Venus 02-04-1966 26-06-1966 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 26-06-1966 22-07-1966 


Mercury-Jupiter 14y10m 


Mercury-Venus 


Antar 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


Mercury-Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Mercury-Saturn 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #2 


6y4m 
Beginning Ending 


12-07-1961 29-12-1961 
29-12-1961 18-02-1962 
18-02-1962 14-05-1962 
14-05-1962 12-07-1962 
12-07-1962 12-12-1962 
12-12-1962 27-04-1963 
27-04-1963 06-10-1963 
06-10-1963 27-02-1964 
27-02-1964 27-04-1964 


1ly4m 
Beginning Ending 


22-07-1966 12-08-1966 
12-08-1966 04-10-1966 
04-10-1966 21-11-1966 
21-11-1966 16-01-1967 
16-01-1967 08-03-1967 
08-03-1967 29-03-1967 
29-03-1967 27-05-1967 
27-05-1967 14-06-1967 
14-06-1967 14-07-1967 


17ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


14-07-1967 29-11-1967 
29-11-1967 30-03-1968 
Saturn 30-03-1968 22-08-1968 
Mercury 22-08-1968 30-12-1968 
Ketu 30-12-1968 22-02-1969 
Venus 22-02-1969 25-07-1969 
Sun 25-07-1969 09-09-1969 
09-09-1969 24-11-1969 
24-11-1969 17-01-1970 


Moon 
Mars 


17-01-1970 06-05-1970 
Saturn 06-05-1970 12-09-1970 
Mercury 12-09-1970 05-01-1971 
Ketu 05-01-1971 22-02-1971 
Venus 22-02-1971 08-07-1971 
Sun 08-07-1971 18-08-1971 
18-08-1971 25-10-1971 
25-10-1971 11-12-1971 
11-12-1971 12-04-1972 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


12-04-1972 12-09-1972 
12-09-1972 28-01-1973 
28-01-1973 25-03-1973 
25-03-1973 03-09-1973 
03-09-1973 21-10-1973 
21-10-1973 10-01-1974 
10-01-1974 07-03-1974 
07-03-1974 31-07-1974 
31-07-1974 07-12-1974 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 23 


STEVE JOBS (3 Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #3 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Ketu) Mahadasha 07-12-1974 to 31-10-1981 
Age: 19y 9m to 26y 8m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 
Ketu-Ketu 19y9m* Ketu-Venus 20y2m Ketu-Sun 21y4m 
Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 07-12-1974 15-12-1974 Venus 03-05-1975 12-07-1975 Sun 26-06-1976 02-07-1976 
Venus = 15-12-1974.09-01-1975 Sun 12-07-1975 02-08-1975 Moon 02-07-1976 13-07-1976 
Sun 09-01-1975 16-01-1975 Moon 02-08-1975 06-09-1975 Mars 13-07-1976 20-07-1976 
Moon 16-01-1975 29-01-1975 Mars 06-09-1975 30-09-1975 Rahu 20-07-1976 08-08-1976 
Mars 29-01-1975 06-02-1975 Rahu 30-09-1975 02-12-1975 Jupiter 08-08-1976 25-08-1976 
Rahu 06-02-1975 28-02-1975 Jupiter 02-12-1975 27-01-1976 Saturn 25-08-1976 14-09-1976 
Jupiter 28-02-1975 20-03-1975 Saturn 27-01-1976 03-04-1976 Mercury 14-09-1976 01-10-1976 
Saturn 20-03-1975 12-04-1975 Mercury 03-04-1976 01-06-1976 Ketu 01-10-1976 09-10-1976 
Mercury 12-04-1975 03-05-1975 Ketu 01-06-1976 26-06-1976 Venus 09-10-1976 30-10-1976 


Ketu-Moon 2ly8m Ketu-Mars 22y3m Ketu-Rahu 22y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 30-10-1976 16-11-1976 Mars 28-05-1977 05-06-1977 Rahu 22-10-1977 18-12-1977 
Mars 16-11-1976 29-11-1976 Rahu 05-06-1977 27-06-1977 Jupiter 18-12-1977 06-02-1978 
Rahu 29-11-1976 30-12-1976 Jupiter 27-06-1977 17-07-1977 Saturn 06-02-1978 07-04-1978 
Jupiter 30-12-1976 27-01-1977 Saturn 17-07-1977 09-08-1977 Mercury 07-04-1978 30-05-1978 
Saturn 27-01-1977 01-03-1977 Mercury 09-08-1977 30-08-1977 Ketu 30-05-1978 21-06-1978 
Mercury 01-03-1977 31-03-1977 Ketu 30-08-1977 08-09-1977 Venus 21-06-1978 23-08-1978 
Ketu 31-03-1977 12-04-1977 Venus 08-09-1977 02-10-1977 Sun 23-08-1978 11-09-1978 
Venus =: 12-04-1977 17-05-1977 Sun 02-10-1977 10-10-1977 Moon 11-09-1978 13-10-1978 
Sun 17-05-1977 28-05-1977 Moon 10-10-1977 22-10-1977 Mars 13-10-1978 04-11-1978 


Ketu-Jupiter 23y8m Ketu-Saturn 24y7m Ketu-Mercury 25y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Jupiter 04-11-1978 19-12-1978 Saturn 06-10-1979 08-12-1979 Mercury 08-11-1980 28-12-1980 
Saturn 19-12-1978 10-02-1979 Mercury 08-12-1979 03-02-1980 Ketu 28-12-1980 18-01-1981 
Mercury 10-02-1979 29-03-1979 Ketu 03-02-1980 26-02-1980 Venus 18-01-1981 19-03-1981 
Ketu 29-03-1979 18-04-1979 Venus 26-02-1980 02-05-1980 Sun 19-03-1981 06-04-1981 
Venus 18-04-1979 13-06-1979 Sun 02-05-1980 22-05-1980 Moon 06-04-1981 05-05-1981 
Sun 13-06-1979 30-06-1979 Moon — 22-05-1980 25-06-1980 Mars 05-05-1981 26-05-1981 
Moon = 30-06-1979 28-07-1979 Mars 25-06-1980 18-07-1980 Rahu 26-05-1981 19-07-1981 
Mars 28-07-1979 16-08-1979 Rahu 18-07-1980 16-09-1980 Jupiter 19-07-1981 04-09-1981 
Rahu 16-08-1979 06-10-1979 Jupiter 16-09-1980 08-11-1980 Saturn 04-09-1981 31-10-1981 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 24 


STEVE JOBS Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #4 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Venus Mahadasha 31-10-1981 to 18-07-2001 
Age : 26y 8m to 46y 4m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Venus-Venus 26y8m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 31-10-1981 19-05-1982 
Sun 19-05-1982 18-07-1982 
18-07-1982 26-10-1982 
26-10-1982 04-01-1983 
04-01-1983 03-07-1983 
03-07-1983 10-12-1983 
Saturn 10-12-1983 17-06-1984 
Mercury 17-06-1984 04-12-1984 
Ketu 04-12-1984 12-02-1985 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Venus-Mars 32y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


30-09-1987 24-10-1987 
24-10-1987 26-12-1987 
26-12-1987 20-02-1988 
Saturn 20-02-1988 27-04-1988 
Mercury 27-04-1988 25-06-1988 
Ketu 25-06-1988 20-07-1988 
Venus 20-07-1988 28-09-1988 
Sun 28-09-1988 19-10-1988 


Moon — 19-10-1988 23-11-1988 


Venus-Saturn 39y4m 


Venus-Sun 


Antar 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


Venus-Rahu 


Antar 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Venus-Mercury 


29y11m 
Beginning Ending 


12-02-1985 02-03-1985 
02-03-1985 01-04-1985 
01-04-1985 22-04-1985 
22-04-1985 15-06-1985 
15-06-1985 02-08-1985 
02-08-1985 28-09-1985 
28-09-1985 18-11-1985 
18-11-1985 09-12-1985 
09-12-1985 07-02-1986 


33y8m 
Beginning Ending 


23-11-1988 04-05-1989 
04-05-1989 25-09-1989 
25-09-1989 15-03-1990 
15-03-1990 15-08-1990 
15-08-1990 17-10-1990 
17-10-1990 15-04-1991 
15-04-1991 08-06-1991 
08-06-1991 06-09-1991 
06-09-1991 08-11-1991 


42y5m 


Venus-Moon 30yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


07-02-1986 29-03-1986 
29-03-1986 03-05-1986 
03-05-1986 01-08-1986 
01-08-1986 20-10-1986 
Saturn 20-10-1986 23-01-1987 
Mercury 23-01-1987 18-04-1987 
Ketu 18-04-1987 23-05-1987 
Venus = 23-05-1987 31-08-1987 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 31-08-1987 30-09-1987 


Venus-Jupiter 36y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


08-11-1991 15-03-1992 
Saturn 15-03-1992 14-08-1992 
Mercury 14-08-1992 28-12-1992 
Ketu 28-12-1992 22-02-1993 
Venus 22-02-1993 01-08-1993 
Sun 01-08-1993 18-09-1993 
18-09-1993 07-12-1993 
07-12-1993 01-02-1994 
01-02-1994 25-06-1994 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Venus-Ketu 45y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 25-06-1994 22-12-1994 
Mercury 22-12-1994 02-06-1995 
Ketu 02-06-1995 07-08-1995 
Venus 07-08-1995 13-02-1996 
Sun 13-02-1996 10-04-1996 
10-04-1996 14-07-1996 
14-07-1996 19-09-1996 
19-09-1996 09-03-1997 
09-03-1997 08-08-1997 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


08-08-1997 30-12-1997 
30-12-1997 28-02-1998 
28-02-1998 17-08-1998 
17-08-1998 07-10-1998 
07-10-1998 31-12-1998 
31-12-1998 28-02-1999 
28-02-1999 31-07-1999 
31-07-1999 14-12-1999 
14-12-1999 24-05-2000 


Ketu 24-05-2000 17-06-2000 
Venus 17-06-2000 26-08-2000 
Sun 26-08-2000 16-09-2000 
16-09-2000 21-10-2000 
21-10-2000 15-11-2000 
15-11-2000 17-01-2001 
17-01-2001 14-03-2001 
Saturn 14-03-2001 19-05-2001 
Mercury 19-05-2001 18-07-2001 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 25 


STEVE JOBS Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #5 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Sun Mahadasha 18-07-2001 to 17-06-2007 
Age : 46y 4m to 52y 3m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sun-Sun 46y4m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 18-07-2001 23-07-2001 
23-07-2001 01-08-2001 
01-08-2001 08-08-2001 
08-08-2001 24-08-2001 
24-08-2001 07-09-2001 
Saturn 07-09-2001 24-09-2001 
Mercury 24-09-2001 10-10-2001 
Ketu 10-10-2001 16-10-2001 
Venus 16-10-2001 03-11-2001 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun-Rahu 47y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


05-09-2002 23-10-2002 
23-10-2002 06-12-2002 
Saturn 06-12-2002 26-01-2003 
Mercury 26-01-2003 13-03-2003 
Ketu 13-03-2003 01-04-2003 
Venus 01-04-2003 25-05-2003 
Sun 25-05-2003 10-06-2003 
10-06-2003 07-07-2003 
07-07-2003 26-07-2003 


Moon 
Mars 


Sun-Mercury 50y1m 


Sun-Moon 46y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


03-11-2001 18-11-2001 
18-11-2001 28-11-2001 
28-11-2001 25-12-2001 
25-12-2001 18-01-2002 
Saturn 18-01-2002 16-02-2002 
Mercury 16-02-2002 13-03-2002 
Ketu 13-03-2002 24-03-2002 
Venus 24-03-2002 23-04-2002 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 23-04-2002 02-05-2002 


Sun-Jupiter 48y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


26-07-2003 02-09-2003 
Saturn 02-09-2003 18-10-2003 
Mercury 18-10-2003 28-11-2003 
Ketu 28-11-2003 14-12-2003 
Venus 14-12-2003 31-01-2004 
Sun 31-01-2004 15-02-2004 
15-02-2004 10-03-2004 
10-03-2004 27-03-2004 
27-03-2004 09-05-2004 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Sun-Ketu 50yl1m 


Sun-Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Sun-Saturn 


Antar 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun-Venus 


47y2m 
Beginning Ending 


02-05-2002 09-05-2002 
09-05-2002 28-05-2002 
28-05-2002 14-06-2002 
14-06-2002 04-07-2002 
04-07-2002 22-07-2002 
22-07-2002 29-07-2002 
29-07-2002 19-08-2002 
19-08-2002 25-08-2002 
25-08-2002 05-09-2002 


49y2m 
Beginning Ending 


09-05-2004 02-07-2004 
02-07-2004 19-08-2004 
19-08-2004 08-09-2004 
08-09-2004 04-11-2004 
04-11-2004 21-11-2004 
21-11-2004 20-12-2004 
20-12-2004 09-01-2005 
09-01-2005 01-03-2005 
01-03-2005 16-04-2005 


S5ly3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Mercury 16-04-2005 29-05-2005 
Ketu 29-05-2005 16-06-2005 
Venus 16-06-2005 06-08-2005 
Sun 06-08-2005 21-08-2005 
21-08-2005 16-09-2005 
16-09-2005 04-10-2005 
04-10-2005 19-11-2005 
19-11-2005 29-12-2005 
29-12-2005 16-02-2006 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Ketu 16-02-2006 23-02-2006 
Venus 23-02-2006 16-03-2006 
Sun 16-03-2006 22-03-2006 
22-03-2006 02-04-2006 
02-04-2006 09-04-2006 
09-04-2006 28-04-2006 
28-04-2006 15-05-2006 
Saturn 15-05-2006 04-06-2006 
Mercury 04-06-2006 22-06-2006 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


22-06-2006 21-08-2006 
21-08-2006 08-09-2006 
08-09-2006 08-10-2006 
08-10-2006 29-10-2006 
29-10-2006 22-12-2006 
22-12-2006 08-02-2007 
08-02-2007 06-04-2007 
06-04-2007 27-05-2007 
27-05-2007 17-06-2007 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 26 


STEVE JOBS Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #6 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Moon Mahadasha 17-06-2007 to 25-04-2017 
Age : 52y 3m to 62y 2m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Moon-Moon 52y3m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


17-06-2007 12-07-2007 
12-07-2007 29-07-2007 
29-07-2007 12-09-2007 
12-09-2007 22-10-2007 
Saturn 22-10-2007 09-12-2007 
Mercury 09-12-2007 20-01-2008 
Ketu 20-01-2008 07-02-2008 
Venus 07-02-2008 28-03-2008 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 28-03-2008 12-04-2008 


Moon-Jupiter 55y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


02-05-2010 05-07-2010 
Saturn 05-07-2010 19-09-2010 
Mercury 19-09-2010 26-11-2010 
Ketu 26-11-2010 24-12-2010 
Venus 24-12-2010 14-03-2011 
Sun 14-03-2011 07-04-2011 
07-04-2011 17-05-2011 
17-05-2011 14-06-2011 
14-06-2011 25-08-2011 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Moon-Ketu 59y5m 


Moon-Mars 53ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


12-04-2008 24-04-2008 
24-04-2008 26-05-2008 
26-05-2008 23-06-2008 
Saturn 23-06-2008 26-07-2008 
Mercury 26-07-2008 25-08-2008 
Ketu 25-08-2008 06-09-2008 
Venus 06-09-2008 11-10-2008 
Sun 11-10-2008 21-10-2008 


Moon 21-10-2008 08-11-2008 


Moon-Saturn 56y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 25-08-2011 23-11-2011 
Mercury 23-11-2011 12-02-2012 
Ketu 12-02-2012 16-03-2012 
Venus 16-03-2012 19-06-2012 
Sun 19-06-2012 18-07-2012 
18-07-2012 03-09-2012 
03-09-2012 06-10-2012 
06-10-2012 31-12-2012 
31-12-2012 17-03-2013 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Moon-Venus 60y0Om 


Moon-Rahu 


Antar 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Moon-Mercury 


Antar 


Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Moon-Sun 


53y8m 
Beginning Ending 


08-11-2008 28-01-2009 
28-01-2009 10-04-2009 
10-04-2009 04-07-2009 
04-07-2009 19-09-2009 
19-09-2009 20-10-2009 
20-10-2009 18-01-2010 
18-01-2010 14-02-2010 
14-02-2010 31-03-2010 
31-03-2010 02-05-2010 


58y0m 
Beginning Ending 


17-03-2013 28-05-2013 
28-05-2013 27-06-2013 
27-06-2013 20-09-2013 
20-09-2013 15-10-2013 
15-10-2013 27-11-2013 
27-11-2013 27-12-2013 
27-12-2013 13-03-2014 
13-03-2014 20-05-2014 
20-05-2014 09-08-2014 


6ly8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Ketu 09-08-2014 21-08-2014 
Venus 21-08-2014 25-09-2014 
Sun 25-09-2014 06-10-2014 
06-10-2014 23-10-2014 
23-10-2014 04-11-2014 
04-11-2014 06-12-2014 
06-12-2014 03-01-2015 
Saturn 03-01-2015 05-02-2015 
Mercury 05-02-2015 07-03-2015 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Venus 07-03-2015 15-06-2015 
Sun 15-06-2015 15-07-2015 
15-07-2015 03-09-2015 
03-09-2015 08-10-2015 
08-10-2015 06-01-2016 
06-01-2016 26-03-2016 
Saturn 26-03-2016 29-06-2016 
Mercury 29-06-2016 22-09-2016 
Ketu 22-09-2016 27-10-2016 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 


27-10-2016 05-11-2016 
05-11-2016 20-11-2016 
20-11-2016 30-11-2016 
30-11-2016 27-12-2016 
27-12-2016 20-01-2017 
20-01-2017 18-02-2017 
18-02-2017 15-03-2017 
15-03-2017 26-03-2017 
26-03-2017 25-04-2017 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 ¢ 27 


STEVE JOBS 


Mars-Mars 


Antar 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


Mars-Saturn 


Antar 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mars-Venus 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #7 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Mars Mahadasha 25-04-2017 to 19-03-2024 


62y2m* 
Beginning Ending 


25-04-2017 03-05-2017 
03-05-2017 25-05-2017 
25-05-2017 14-06-2017 
14-06-2017 07-07-2017 
07-07-2017 28-07-2017 
28-07-2017 06-08-2017 
06-08-2017 30-08-2017 
30-08-2017 07-09-2017 
07-09-2017 19-09-2017 


64y6om 
Beginning Ending 


03-09-2019 05-11-2019 
05-11-2019 01-01-2020 
01-01-2020 24-01-2020 
24-01-2020 30-03-2020 
30-03-2020 19-04-2020 
19-04-2020 23-05-2020 
23-05-2020 15-06-2020 
15-06-2020 14-08-2020 
14-08-2020 06-10-2020 


66yllm 


Age : 62y 2m to 69y 0m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mars-Rahu 62y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


19-09-2017 15-11-2017 
15-11-2017 04-01-2018 
Saturn 04-01-2018 05-03-2018 
Mercury 05-03-2018 27-04-2018 
Ketu 27-04-2018 19-05-2018 
Venus 19-05-2018 21-07-2018 
Sun 21-07-2018 09-08-2018 
09-08-2018 10-09-2018 
10-09-2018 02-10-2018 


Moon 
Mars 


65y7m 


Mars-Mercury 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 06-10-2020 25-11-2020 


Ketu 25-11-2020 16-12-2020 
Venus = 16-12-2020 14-02-2021 
Sun 14-02-2021 04-03-2021 
04-03-2021 02-04-2021 
02-04-2021 23-04-2021 
23-04-2021 16-06-2021 
16-06-2021 02-08-2021 
02-08-2021 28-09-2021 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mars-Sun 68ylm 


Mars-Jupiter 63y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


02-10-2018 16-11-2018 
Saturn 16-11-2018 08-01-2019 
Mercury 08-01-2019 24-02-2019 
Ketu 24-02-2019 16-03-2019 
Venus 16-03-2019 11-05-2019 
Sun 11-05-2019 28-05-2019 
28-05-2019 25-06-2019 
25-06-2019 14-07-2019 
14-07-2019 03-09-2019 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Mars-Ketu 66y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 28-09-2021 06-10-2021 
Venus 06-10-2021 31-10-2021 
Sun 31-10-2021 07-11-2021 
07-11-2021 20-11-2021 
20-11-2021 28-11-2021 
28-11-2021 20-12-2021 
20-12-2021 09-01-2022 
Saturn 09-01-2022 01-02-2022 
Mercury 01-02-2022 22-02-2022 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mars-Moon 68y5m 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


22-02-2022 03-05-2022 
03-05-2022 24-05-2022 
24-05-2022 28-06-2022 
28-06-2022 22-07-2022 
22-07-2022 23-09-2022 
23-09-2022 18-11-2022 
18-11-2022 24-01-2023 
24-01-2023 24-03-2023 
24-03-2023 18-04-2023 


Sun 18-04-2023 24-04-2023 
24-04-2023 05-05-2023 
05-05-2023 12-05-2023 
12-05-2023 31-05-2023 
31-05-2023 17-06-2023 
Saturn 17-06-2023 07-07-2023 
Mercury 07-07-2023 24-07-2023 
Ketu 24-07-2023 01-08-2023 
Venus 01-08-2023 22-08-2023 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


22-08-2023 08-09-2023 
08-09-2023 21-09-2023 
21-09-2023 22-10-2023 
22-10-2023 19-11-2023 
Saturn 19-11-2023 22-12-2023 
Mercury 22-12-2023 21-01-2024 
Ketu 21-01-2024 02-02-2024 
Venus 02-02-2024 08-03-2024 
Sun 08-03-2024 19-03-2024 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 28 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Rahu_ Mahadasha 19-03-2024 to 15-12-2041 


Rahu-Rahu 69y0m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu 
Jupiter 


19-03-2024 12-08-2024 
12-08-2024 19-12-2024 
Saturn 19-12-2024 22-05-2025 
Mercury 22-05-2025 07-10-2025 
Ketu 07-10-2025 03-12-2025 
Venus 03-12-2025 14-05-2026 
Sun 14-05-2026 01-07-2026 
01-07-2026 20-09-2026 
20-09-2026 16-11-2026 


Moon 
Mars 


Rahu-Mercury 76y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 19-01-2032 28-05-2032 


Ketu 28-05-2032 20-07-2032 
Venus 20-07-2032 20-12-2032 
Sun 20-12-2032 04-02-2033 
04-02-2033 22-04-2033 
22-04-2033 14-06-2033 
14-06-2033 30-10-2033 
30-10-2033 01-03-2034 
01-03-2034 25-07-2034 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Rahu-Sun 83y4m 


Age: 69y 0m to 86y 9m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rahu-Jupiter 7Tly8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


16-11-2026 11-03-2027 
Saturn 11-03-2027 26-07-2027 
Mercury 26-07-2027 25-11-2027 
Ketu 25-11-2027 15-01-2028 
Venus 15-01-2028 07-06-2028 
Sun 07-06-2028 20-07-2028 
20-07-2028 30-09-2028 
30-09-2028 19-11-2028 
19-11-2028 29-03-2029 


Jupiter 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Rahu-Ketu 79y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 25-07-2034 16-08-2034 
Venus 16-08-2034 18-10-2034 
Sun 18-10-2034 06-11-2034 
06-11-2034 07-12-2034 
07-12-2034 29-12-2034 
29-12-2034 24-02-2035 
24-02-2035 15-04-2035 
15-04-2035 14-06-2035 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 14-06-2035 07-08-2035 


Rahu-Moon 84y3m 


Rahu-Saturn 


Antar 


Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Rahu-Venus 


Antar 


Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 


Rahu-Mars 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #8 


74y1m 
Beginning Ending 


29-03-2029 07-09-2029 
07-09-2029 31-01-2030 
31-01-2030 31-03-2030 
31-03-2030 18-09-2030 
18-09-2030 09-11-2030 
09-11-2030 02-02-2031 
02-02-2031 03-04-2031 
03-04-2031 04-09-2031 
04-09-2031 19-01-2032 


80y5m 
Beginning Ending 


07-08-2035 03-02-2036 
03-02-2036 28-03-2036 
28-03-2036 26-06-2036 
26-06-2036 28-08-2036 
28-08-2036 06-02-2037 
06-02-2037 30-06-2037 
30-06-2037 18-12-2037 
18-12-2037 20-05-2038 
20-05-2038 22-07-2038 


85y9m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar 


Beginning Ending 


Sun 22-07-2038 07-08-2038 
07-08-2038 03-09-2038 
03-09-2038 22-09-2038 
22-09-2038 10-11-2038 
10-11-2038 23-12-2038 
Saturn 23-12-2038 12-02-2039 
Mercury 12-02-2039 30-03-2039 
Ketu 30-03-2039 18-04-2039 
Venus 18-04-2039 11-06-2039 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


11-06-2039 26-07-2039 
26-07-2039 26-08-2039 
26-08-2039 15-11-2039 
15-11-2039 26-01-2040 
Saturn 26-01-2040 21-04-2040 
Mercury 21-04-2040 06-07-2040 
Ketu 06-07-2040 07-08-2040 
Venus 07-08-2040 05-11-2040 
Sun 05-11-2040 02-12-2040 


Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercury 
Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 


02-12-2040 24-12-2040 
24-12-2040 19-02-2041 
19-02-2041 10-04-2041 
10-04-2041 09-06-2041 
09-06-2041 01-08-2041 
01-08-2041 23-08-2041 
23-08-2041 25-10-2041 
25-10-2041 13-11-2041 
13-11-2041 15-12-2041 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 29 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari Detailed AD and PD #9 


Vimshottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


Jupiter Mahadasha 15-12-2041 to 22-09-2057 


Jupiter-Jupiter 86y 9m* 


Antar Beginning Ending 


15-12-2041 27-03-2042 
27-03-2042 27-07-2042 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 27-07-2042 13-11-2042 
Ketu 13-11-2042 27-12-2042 
Venus = 27-12-2042 04-05-2043 
Sun 04-05-2043 12-06-2043 
Moon — 12-06-2043 15-08-2043 
Mars 15-08-2043 29-09-2043 
Rahu 29-09-2043 22-01-2044 


Jupiter-Ketu 93y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Ketu 15-10-2048 03-11-2048 


Venus 03-11-2048 29-12-2048 
Sun 29-12-2048 15-01-2049 
Moon 15-01-2049 12-02-2049 
Mars 12-02-2049 04-03-2049 
Rahu 04-03-2049 23-04-2049 
23-04-2049 07-06-2049 
07-06-2049 30-07-2049 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 30-07-2049 16-09-2049 


Jupiter-Moon 97yl1m 


Age : 86y 9m to 102y 6m 


*Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Jupiter-Saturn 88y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 22-01-2044 14-06-2044 
Mercury 14-06-2044 21-10-2044 
Ketu 21-10-2044 14-12-2044 
Venus 14-12-2044 15-05-2045 
Sun 15-05-2045 29-06-2045 
Moon = 29-06-2045 13-09-2045 
Mars 13-09-2045 05-11-2045 
Rahu 05-11-2045 22-03-2046 


Jupiter 22-03-2046 22-07-2046 


Jupiter-Venus 94y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Venus 16-09-2049 23-02-2050 


Sun 23-02-2050 12-04-2050 
Moon 12-04-2050 01-07-2050 
Mars 01-07-2050 26-08-2050 
Rahu 26-08-2050 17-01-2051 
17-01-2051 25-05-2051 
Saturn 25-05-2051 24-10-2051 
Mercury 24-10-2051 08-03-2052 


Jupiter 


Ketu 08-03-2052 03-05-2052 


Jupiter-Mars 99y3m 


Jupiter-Mercury 91y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury 22-07-2046 14-11-2046 


Ketu 14-11-2046 01-01-2047 
Venus 01-01-2047 17-05-2047 
Sun 17-05-2047 27-06-2047 
Moon =. 27-06-2047 03-09-2047 
Mars 03-09-2047 20-10-2047 
Rahu 20-10-2047 20-02-2048 
20-02-2048 08-06-2048 
08-06-2048 15-10-2048 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Jupiter-Sun 97y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Sun 03-05-2052 17-05-2052 
Moon — 17-05-2052 10-06-2052 
Mars 10-06-2052 27-06-2052 
Rahu 27-06-2052 09-08-2052 
09-08-2052 17-09-2052 
Saturn 17-09-2052 01-11-2052 
Mercury 01-11-2052 12-12-2052 
Ketu 12-12-2052 29-12-2052 
Venus 29-12-2052 15-02-2053 


Jupiter 


Jupiter-Rahu 100y2m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon — 15-02-2053 27-03-2053 
Mars 27-03-2053 24-04-2053 
Rahu 24-04-2053 05-07-2053 
05-07-2053 07-09-2053 
Saturn 07-09-2053 22-11-2053 
Mercury 22-11-2053 29-01-2054 
Ketu 29-01-2054 26-02-2054 
Venus 26-02-2054 17-05-2054 
Sun 17-05-2054 10-06-2054 


Jupiter 


Mars 10-06-2054 29-06-2054 
Rahu 29-06-2054 19-08-2054 
19-08-2054 03-10-2054 
Saturn 03-10-2054 25-11-2054 
Mercury 25-11-2054 11-01-2055 
Ketu 11-01-2055 31-01-2055 
Venus 31-01-2055 28-03-2055 
Sun 28-03-2055 14-04-2055 
Moon 14-04-2055 12-05-2055 


Jupiter 


Rahu 12-05-2055 18-09-2055 
18-09-2055 12-01-2056 
Saturn 12-01-2056 27-05-2056 
Mercury 27-05-2056 27-09-2056 
Ketu 27-09-2056 16-11-2056 
Venus 16-11-2056 09-04-2057 
Sun 09-04-2057 22-05-2057 
Moon =. 22-05-2057 02-08-2057 
Mars 02-08-2057 22-09-2057 


Jupiter 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 30 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #1 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mon-Sat-Sun 


Mon-Sat-Mon 


Mon-Sat-Mar 


Mon-Sat-Rah 


19-06-2012 
18-07-2012 


19-06-2012 14:23 
21-06-2012 00:35 
23-06-2012 09:35 
25-06-2012 01:29 
29-06-2012 08:05 
03-07-2012 03:17 
07-07-2012 15:35 
11-07-2012 16:29 
13-07-2012 08:23 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 


Mon-Sat-Jup 
31-12-2012 
17-03-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


18-07-2012 
03-09-2012 


18-07-2012 02:23 
22-07-2012 01:23 
24-07-2012 19:53 
31-07-2012 22:53 
07-08-2012 06:53 
14-08-2012 19:23 
21-08-2012 12:53 
24-08-2012 07:23 
01-09-2012 05:23 


Beginning 
Ending 


Mon-Mer-Mer 


17-03-2013 
28-05-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


03-09-2012 
06-10-2012 


03-09-2012 14:23 
05-09-2012 12:56 
10-09-2012 12:38 
14-09-2012 23:02 
20-09-2012 05:23 
24-09-2012 22:26 
26-09-2012 20:59 
02-10-2012 09:59 
04-10-2012 01:53 


Beginning 
Ending 
Mar 


Jup 


Mon-Mer-Ket 


28-05-2013 
27-06-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


06-10-2012 
31-12-2012 


06-10-2012 20:23 
19-10-2012 16:11 
31-10-2012 01:47 
13-11-2012 14:41 
25-11-2012 17:23 
30-11-2012 17:05 
14-12-2012 23:05 
19-12-2012 05:41 
26-12-2012 08:41 


Beginning 
Ending 
Rah 
Jup 


Mon-Mer-Ven 


27-06-2013 
20-09-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


31-12-2012 08:23 
10-01-2013 11:35 
22-01-2013 12:23 
02-02-2013 06:47 
06-02-2013 17:11 
19-02-2013 09:11 
23-02-2013 04:23 
01-03-2013 12:23 
05-03-2013 22:47 


Jup 
Sat 


17-03-2013 08:23 
27-03-2013 14:02 
31-03-2013 19:11 
12-04-2013 20:11 
16-04-2013 10:53 
22-04-2013 11:23 
26-04-2013 16:32 
07-05-2013 12:38 
17-05-2013 03:50 


28-05-2013 14:23 
30-05-2013 08:02 
04-06-2013 07:02 
05-06-2013 18:44 
08-06-2013 06:14 
09-06-2013 23:53 
14-06-2013 10:59 
18-06-2013 10:11 
23-06-2013 03:14 


Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


27-06-2013 08:23 
11-07-2013 12:23 
15-07-2013 18:23 
22-07-2013 20:23 
27-07-2013 19:23 
09-08-2013 13:23 
20-08-2013 21:23 
03-09-2013 08:23 
15-09-2013 09:23 


Mon-Mer-Sun 


Mon-Mer-Mon 


Mon-Mer-Mar 


Mon-Mer-Rah 


20-09-2013 
15-10-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


15-10-2013 
27-11-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


27-11-2013 
27-12-2013 


Beginning 
Ending 


27-12-2013 
13-03-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


20-09-2013 08:23 
21-09-2013 14:59 
23-09-2013 17:59 
25-09-2013 05:41 
29-09-2013 01:29 
02-10-2013 11:05 
06-10-2013 11:59 
10-10-2013 02:41 
11-10-2013 14:23 


Sun 
Mon 


15-10-2013 20:23 
19-10-2013 09:23 
21-10-2013 20:53 
28-10-2013 05:53 
02-11-2013 21:53 
09-11-2013 15:23 
15-11-2013 15:53 
18-11-2013 03:23 
25-11-2013 05:23 


Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


27-11-2013 08:23 
29-11-2013 02:02 
03-12-2013 13:08 
07-12-2013 12:20 
12-12-2013 05:23 
16-12-2013 10:32 
18-12-2013 04:11 
23-12-2013 03:11 
24-12-2013 14:53 


Rah 
Jup 
Sat 


27-12-2013 02:23 
07-01-2014 13:47 
17-01-2014 18:35 
29-01-2014 21:17 
09-02-2014 17:23 
14-02-2014 04:29 
26-02-2014 22:29 
02-03-2014 18:17 
09-03-2014 03:17 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 ¢ 31 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #2 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mon-Mer-Jup 


Mon-Mer-Sat 


Mon-Ket-Ket 


Mon-Ket-Ven 


13-03-2014 
20-05-2014 


13-03-2014 14:23 
22-03-2014 15:59 
02-04-2014 10:23 
12-04-2014 01:35 
16-04-2014 00:47 
27-04-2014 08:47 
30-04-2014 18:23 
06-05-2014 10:23 
10-05-2014 09:35 


Beginning 
Ending 
Jup 
Sat 


Mon-Ket-Sun 


25-09-2014 
06-10-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


20-05-2014 
09-08-2014 


20-05-2014 14:23 
02-06-2014 09:14 
13-06-2014 19:47 
18-06-2014 12:50 
01-07-2014 23:50 
06-07-2014 00:44 
12-07-2014 18:14 
17-07-2014 11:17 
29-07-2014 13:59 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sat 


Mon-Ket-Mon 


06-10-2014 
23-10-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


09-08-2014 
21-08-2014 


09-08-2014 08:23 
10-08-2014 01:32 
12-08-2014 02:32 
12-08-2014 17:14 
13-08-2014 17:44 
14-08-2014 10:53 
16-08-2014 06:59 
17-08-2014 22:11 
19-08-2014 20:44 


Beginning 
Ending 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 


Mon-Ket-Mar 


23-10-2014 
04-11-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


21-08-2014 
25-09-2014 


21-08-2014 14:23 
27-08-2014 10:23 
29-08-2014 04:23 
01-09-2014 02:23 
03-09-2014 03:23 
08-09-2014 09:23 
13-09-2014 01:23 
18-09-2014 14:23 
23-09-2014 13:23 


Beginning 
Ending 


Mon-Ket-Rah 


04-11-2014 
06-12-2014 


Beginning 
Ending 


25-09-2014 14:23 
26-09-2014 02:59 
26-09-2014 23:59 
27-09-2014 14:41 
29-09-2014 04:29 
30-09-2014 14:05 
02-10-2014 05:59 
03-10-2014 17:41 
04-10-2014 08:23 


Sun 
Mon 


06-10-2014 02:23 
07-10-2014 13:23 
08-10-2014 13:53 
11-10-2014 04:53 
13-10-2014 12:53 
16-10-2014 07:23 
18-10-2014 18:53 
19-10-2014 19:23 
22-10-2014 17:23 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 


23-10-2014 14:23 
24-10-2014 07:32 
26-10-2014 03:38 
27-10-2014 18:50 
29-10-2014 17:23 
31-10-2014 11:02 
01-11-2014 04:11 
03-11-2014 05:11 
03-11-2014 19:53 


Rah 
Jup 


04-11-2014 20:23 
09-11-2014 13:47 
13-11-2014 18:35 
18-11-2014 18:17 
23-11-2014 05:23 
25-11-2014 01:29 
30-11-2014 07:29 
01-12-2014 21:17 
04-12-2014 12:17 


Mon-Ket-Jup 


Mon-Ket-Sat 


Mon-Ket-Mer 


Mon-Ven-Ven 


06-12-2014 
03-01-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


03-01-2015 
05-02-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


05-02-2015 
07-03-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


07-03-2015 
15-06-2015 


Beginning 
Ending 


06-12-2014 08:23 
10-12-2014 01:59 
14-12-2014 12:23 
18-12-2014 11:35 
20-12-2014 02:47 
24-12-2014 18:47 
26-12-2014 04:23 
28-12-2014 12:23 
30-12-2014 03:35 


Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 


Sat 03-01-2015 08:23 
08-01-2015 14:44 
13-01-2015 07:47 
15-01-2015 06:20 
20-01-2015 19:20 
22-01-2015 11:14 
25-01-2015 05:44 
27-01-2015 04:17 
01-02-2015 03:59 


05-02-2015 14:23 
09-02-2015 19:32 
11-02-2015 13:11 
16-02-2015 12:11 
17-02-2015 23:53 
20-02-2015 11:23 
22-02-2015 05:02 
26-02-2015 16:08 
02-03-2015 15:20 


07-03-2015 08:23 
24-03-2015 00:23 
29-03-2015 00:23 
06-04-2015 08:23 
12-04-2015 04:23 
27-04-2015 04:23 
10-05-2015 12:23 
26-05-2015 08:23 
09-06-2015 12:23 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 32 


STEVE JOBS 


Vimshottari Dasha — PD and Sookshma #3 


Vimshottari Pratyantardasha and Sookshma Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Mon-Ven-Sun 


Mon-Ven-Mon 


Mon-Ven-Mar 


Mon-Ven-Rah 


15-06-2015 
15-07-2015 


15-06-2015 08:23 
16-06-2015 20:23 
19-06-2015 08:23 
21-06-2015 02:23 
25-06-2015 14:23 
29-06-2015 14:23 
04-07-2015 08:23 
08-07-2015 14:23 
10-07-2015 08:23 


Beginning 
Ending 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 

Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 


Mon-Ven-Jup 
06-01-2016 
26-03-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


15-07-2015 
03-09-2015 


15-07-2015 08:23 
19-07-2015 12:23 
22-07-2015 10:23 
29-07-2015 22:23 
05-08-2015 14:23 
13-08-2015 12:23 
20-08-2015 14:23 
23-08-2015 12:23 
31-08-2015 20:23 


Beginning 
Ending 


Mon-Ven-Sat 


26-03-2016 
29-06-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


03-09-2015 
08-10-2015 


03-09-2015 08:23 
05-09-2015 09:23 
10-09-2015 15:23 
15-09-2015 07:23 
20-09-2015 20:23 
25-09-2015 19:23 
27-09-2015 20:23 
03-10-2015 16:23 
05-10-2015 10:23 


Beginning 
Ending 
Mar 


Jup 


Mon-Ven-Mer 


29-06-2016 
22-09-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


08-10-2015 
06-01-2016 


08-10-2015 08:23 
21-10-2015 20:23 
02-11-2015 20:23 
17-11-2015 02:23 
29-11-2015 20:23 
05-12-2015 02:23 
20-12-2015 02:23 
24-12-2015 14:23 
01-01-2016 02:23 


Beginning 
Ending 
Rah 
Jup 


Mon-Ven-Ket 


22-09-2016 
27-10-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


06-01-2016 08:23 
17-01-2016 00:23 
29-01-2016 16:23 
10-02-2016 00:23 
14-02-2016 16:23 
28-02-2016 00:23 
03-03-2016 00:23 
09-03-2016 16:23 
14-03-2016 08:23 


Jup 
Sat 


26-03-2016 08:23 
10-04-2016 09:23 
23-04-2016 20:23 
29-04-2016 09:23 
15-05-2016 05:23 
19-05-2016 23:23 
27-05-2016 21:23 
02-06-2016 10:23 
16-06-2016 16:23 


Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 
Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


29-06-2016 08:23 
11-07-2016 09:23 
16-07-2016 08:23 
30-07-2016 12:23 
03-08-2016 18:23 
10-08-2016 20:23 
15-08-2016 19:23 
28-08-2016 13:23 
08-09-2016 21:23 


22-09-2016 08:23 
24-09-2016 09:23 
30-09-2016 05:23 
01-10-2016 23:23 
04-10-2016 21:23 
06-10-2016 22:23 
12-10-2016 04:23 
16-10-2016 20:23 
22-10-2016 09:23 


Mon-Sun-Sun 


Mon-Sun-Mon 


Mon-Sun-Mar 


Mon-Sun-Rah 


27-10-2016 
05-11-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


05-11-2016 
20-11-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


20-11-2016 
30-11-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


30-11-2016 
27-12-2016 


Beginning 
Ending 


27-10-2016 08:23 
27-10-2016 19:11 
28-10-2016 13:11 
29-10-2016 01:47 
30-10-2016 10:11 
31-10-2016 14:59 
02-11-2016 01:11 
03-11-2016 07:47 
03-11-2016 20:23 


Sun 
Mon 


05-11-2016 08:23 
06-11-2016 14:23 
07-11-2016 11:23 
09-11-2016 17:23 
11-11-2016 17:23 
14-11-2016 02:23 
16-11-2016 05:23 
17-11-2016 02:23 
19-11-2016 14:23 


Mon 
Mar 
Rah 
Jup 
Sat 
Mer 
Ket 
Ven 
Sun 


20-11-2016 08:23 
20-11-2016 23:05 
22-11-2016 12:53 
23-11-2016 22:29 
25-11-2016 14:23 
27-11-2016 02:05 
27-11-2016 16:47 
29-11-2016 10:47 
29-11-2016 23:23 


Mar 
Rah 
Jup 


Rah 
Jup 
Sat 


30-11-2016 20:23 
04-12-2016 21:35 
08-12-2016 11:59 
12-12-2016 18:35 
16-12-2016 14:23 
18-12-2016 04:11 
22-12-2016 16:11 
24-12-2016 00:35 
26-12-2016 06:35 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 33 


STEVE JOBS Ashtottari MD and AD 


Ashtottari Mahadasha and Antardashas 


: Rahu 9y 4m 7d 
: Ra-Ve-Me-Ju-Ju 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Rahu (12y) 
From 0 yrs. to 9y4m 


Venus (21y) 
From 9y4m to 30y0m 


Sun (6y) 
From 30y0m to 35yl1m 


Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending Antar Beginning Ending 


Rahu - Venus 01-07-1964 - 10-07-1968 Sun 13-03-1985 - 11-07-1985 
Venus 24-02-1955 - 14-04-1956 Sun 10-07-1968 - 03-09-1969 Moon 11-07-1985 - 07-05-1986 
Sun 14-04-1956 - 10-12-1956 Moon 03-09-1969 - 19-07-1972 Mars 07-05-1986 - 14-10-1986 
Moon 10-12-1956 - 02-08-1958 Mars 19-07-1972 - 30-01-1974 Mercuryl 4-10-1986 - 19-09-1987 


Mars 02-08-1958 - 18-06-1959 
Mercury] 8-06-1959 - 28-04-1961 
Saturn 28-04-1961 - 02-06-1962 
Jupiter 02-06-1962 - 01-07-1964 


Mercury30-01-1974 - 04-05-1977 
Saturn 04-05-1977 - 04-04-1979 
Jupiter 04-04-1979 - 24-11-1982 
Rahu 24-11-1982 - 13-03-1985 


Saturn 19-09-1987 - 06-04-1988 
Jupiter 06-04-1988 - 21-04-1989 
Rahu = 21-04-1989 - 17-12-1989 
Venus 17-12-1989 - 10-02-1991 


Moon (15y) 
From 35y11m to 50y8m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Moon 10-02-1991 - 01-03-1993 


Mars 01-03-1993 - 05-04-1994 
Mercury05-04-1994 - 02-08-1996 
Saturn 02-08-1996 - 15-12-1997 
Jupiter 15-12-1997 - 22-07-2000 
Rahu 22-07-2000 - 14-03-2002 
Venus 14-03-2002 - 27-01-2005 


Sun 27-01-2005 - 23-11-2005 


Mars (8y) 
From 50y8m to 58y7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mars 23-11-2005 - 24-06-2006 


Mercury24-06-2006 - 21-09-2007 
Saturn 21-09-2007 - 13-06-2008 
Jupiter 13-06-2008 - 02-11-2009 
Rahu 02-11-2009 - 18-09-2010 
Venus 18-09-2010 - 31-03-2012 
Sun = 31-03-2012 - 07-09-2012 


Moon 07-09-2012 - 12-10-2013 


Mercury (17y) 
From 58y7m to 75y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Mercury] 2-10-2013 - 01-06-2016 
Saturn 01-06-2016 - 20-12-2017 
Jupiter 20-12-2017 - 01-12-2020 
Rahu 01-12-2020 - 12-10-2022 
Venus 12-10-2022 - 14-01-2026 
Sun 14-01-2026 - 20-12-2026 
Moon 20-12-2026 - 18-04-2029 
Mars 18-04-2029 - 15-07-2030 


Except in Lagna, Rahu in Kendra or Trikona from Lagna lord.. Birth during day-time in Krishna Paksha or night-time in Shukla Paksha. 


Saturn (10y) 
From 75y4m to 85y2m 


Jupiter (19y) 
From 85y2mto 103yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Saturn 15-07-2030 - 13-06-2031 
Jupiter 13-06-2031 - 08-03-2033 
Rahu 08-03-2033 - 12-04-2034 
Venus 12-04-2034 - 12-03-2036 
Sun —- 12-03-2036 - 28-09-2036 
Moon 28-09-2036 - 10-02-2038 
Mars 10-02-2038 - 03-11-2038 
Mercury03-11-2038 - 23-05-2040 


Jupiter 23-05-2040 - 08-09-2043 
Rahu 08-09-2043 - 07-10-2045 
Venus 07-10-2045 - 29-05-2049 
Sun 29-05-2049 - 13-06-2050 
Moon 13-06-2050 - 18-01-2053 
Mars = 18-01-2053 - 09-06-2054 
Mercury09-06-2054 - 21-05-2057 
Saturn 21-05-2057 - 13-02-2059 


*Condition of Applicability of Ashtottari Dasha : 


In your horoscope Ashtottari dasha does apply. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 34 


STEVE JOBS 


Rah-Ven 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #1 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Rah-Sun 


Rah-Mon 


Rah-Mar 


Rah-Mer 


Begin 24-02-1955 
End 14-04-1956 


Begin 14-04-1956 
End 10-12-1956 


Begin 10-12-1956 
02-08-1958 


Begin 02-08-1958 
18-06-1959 


Begin 18-06-1959 
28-04-1961 


24-02-1955 
31-05-1955 
17-08-1955 
12-01-1956 


Sun 14-04-1956 
Mon 27-04-1956 
31-05-1956 
17-06-1956 
25-07-1956 
16-08-1956 
28-09-1956 
24-10-1956 


10-12-1956 
03-03-1957 
17-04-1957 
20-07-1957 
14-09-1957 
28-12-1957 
05-03-1958 
30-06-1958 


02-08-1958 
26-08-1958 
15-10-1958 
14-11-1958 
09-01-1959 
13-02-1959 
17-04-1959 
04-05-1959 


18-06-1959 
03-10-1959 
05-12-1959 
02-04-1960 
17-06-1960 
27-10-1960 
04-12-1960 
08-03-1961 


Rah-Sat 


Rah-Jup 


Ven-Ven 


Ven-Sun 


Ven-Mon 


Begin 28-04-1961 
02-06-1962 


28-04-1961 
04-06-1961 
13-08-1961 
27-09-1961 
13-12-1961 
05-01-1962 
01-03-1962 
31-03-1962 


Begin 02-06-1962 
01-07-1964 


02-06-1962 
14-10-1962 
06-01-1963 
03-06-1963 
15-07-1963 
29-10-1963 
24-12-1963 
21-04-1964 


Begin 01-07-1964 
10-07-1968 


01-07-1964 
13-04-1965 
03-07-1965 
24-01-1966 
12-05-1966 
30-12-1966 
15-05-1967 
29-01-1968 


Begin 10-07-1968 
03-09-1969 


10-07-1968 
02-08-1968 
30-09-1968 
31-10-1968 
05-01-1969 
13-02-1969 
28-04-1969 
13-06-1969 


Begin 03-09-1969 
19-07-1972 


03-09-1969 
27-01-1970 
14-04-1970 
27-09-1970 
02-01-1971 
06-07-1971 
30-10-1971 
22-05-1972 


Ven-Mar 


Ven-Mer 


Ven -Sat 


Ven-Jup 


Ven-Rah 


Begin 19-07-1972 
30-01-1974 


19-07-1972 
29-08-1972 
25-11-1972 
16-01-1973 
25-04-1973 
26-06-1973 
13-10-1973 
13-11-1973 


Begin 30-01-1974 
04-05-1977 


30-01-1974 
05-08-1974 
23-11-1974 
21-06-1975 
31-10-1975 
18-06-1976 
23-08-1976 
05-02-1977 


Begin 04-05-1977 
04-04-1979 


04-05-1977 
08-07-1977 
08-11-1977 
25-01-1978 
10-06-1978 
19-07-1978 
24-10-1978 
15-12-1978 


Begin 04-04-1979 
24-11-1982 


04-04-1979 
24-11-1979 
20-04-1980 
03-01-1981 
18-03-1981 
19-09-1981 
26-12-1981 
24-07-1982 


Begin 24-11-1982 
13-03-1985 


24-11-1982 
25-02-1983 
08-08-1983 
23-09-1983 
18-01-1984 
20-03-1984 
30-07-1984 
16-10-1984 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 35 


STEVE JOBS (3 Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #2 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Sun-Sun Sun-Mon Sun-Mar Sun-Mer Sun-Sat 
Begin 13-03-1985 Begin 11-07-1985 Begin 07-05-1986 Begin 14-10-1986 Begin 19-09-1987 
End 11-07-1985 End 07-05-1986 14-10-1986 19-09-1987 End 06-04-1988 


Sun =: 13-03-1985 11-07-1985 07-05-1986 14-10-1986 = Sat 19-09-1987 
Mon 20-03-1985 22-08-1985 19-05-1986 06-12-1986 Jup 07-10-1987 
05-04-1985 13-09-1985 13-06-1986 07-01-1987 Rah = 12-11-1987 
14-04-1985 30-10-1985 28-06-1986 08-03-1987 Ven 04-12-1987 
03-05-1985 27-11-1985 26-07-1986 14-04-1987 Sun = 12-01-1988 
14-05-1985 19-01-1986 13-08-1986 20-06-1987 23-01-1988 
04-06-1985 21-02-1986 13-09-1986 08-07-1987 20-02-1988 
18-06-1985 20-04-1986 22-09-1986 25-08-1987 05-03-1988 


Sun-Jup Sun-Rah Sun-Ven Mon-Mon Mon-Mar 
Begin 06-04-1988 Begin 21-04-1989 Begin 17-12-1989 Begin 10-02-1991 Begin 01-03-1993 
21-04-1989 17-12-1989 10-02-1991 01-03-1993 05-04-1994 


06-04-1988 21-04-1989 17-12-1989 10-02-1991 01-03-1993 
12-06-1988 18-05-1989 09-03-1990 25-05-1991 30-03-1993 
24-07-1988 03-07-1989 01-04-1990 20-07-1991 01-06-1993 
06-10-1988 17-07-1989 29-05-1990 15-11-1991 08-07-1993 
27-10-1988 19-08-1989 29-06-1990 23-01-1992 17-09-1993 
19-12-1988 06-09-1989 03-09-1990 03-06-1992 31-10-1993 
16-01-1989 13-10-1989 12-10-1990 25-08-1992 17-01-1994 
17-03-1989 05-11-1989 25-12-1990 18-01-1993 08-02-1994 


Mon-Mer Mon-Sat Mon-Jup Mon-Rah Mon-Ven 


Begin 05-04-1994 Begin 02-08-1996 Begin 15-12-1997 Begin 22-07-2000 Begin 14-03-2002 
02-08-1996 15-12-1997 22-07-2000 14-03-2002 27-01-2005 


05-04-1994 02-08-1996 15-12-1997 22-07-2000 14-03-2002 
17-08-1994 17-09-1996 31-05-1998 27-09-2000 04-10-2002 
03-11-1994 14-12-1996 14-09-1998 21-01-2001 01-12-2002 
02-04-1995 08-02-1997 17-03-1999 24-02-2001 26-04-2003 
05-07-1995 16-05-1997 09-05-1999 18-05-2001 13-07-2003 
18-12-1995 13-06-1997 18-09-1999 01-07-2001 25-12-2003 
03-02-1996 21-08-1997 27-11-1999 04-10-2001 31-03-2004 
31-05-1996 27-09-1997 25-04-2000 28-11-2001 02-10-2004 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 36 


STEVE JOBS (3 Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #3 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 
*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Mon-Sun Mar-Mar Mar-Mer Mar-Sat Mar-Jup 
Begin 27-01-2005 Begin 23-11-2005 Begin 24-06-2006 Begin 21-09-2007 Begin 13-06-2008 
End = 23-11-2005 24-06-2006 21-09-2007. End _ 13-06-2008 End _ 02-11-2009 


Sun 27-01-2005 23-11-2005 24-06-2006 = Sat 21-09-2007 = Jup 13-06-2008 
Mon — 13-02-2005 09-12-2005 04-09-2006  Jup 15-10-2007 10-09-2008 
26-03-2005 11-01-2006 16-10-2006 Rah 01-12-2007 06-11-2008 
17-04-2005 31-01-2006 03-01-2007 Ven 31-12-2007 12-02-2009 
04-06-2005 10-03-2006 23-02-2007 Sun =. 21-02-2008 12-03-2009 
01-07-2005 02-04-2006 22-05-2007 06-03-2008 22-05-2009 
23-08-2005 14-05-2006 16-06-2007 12-04-2008 28-06-2009 
26-09-2005 26-05-2006 18-08-2007 02-05-2008 16-09-2009 


Mar-Rah Mar-Ven Mar-Sun Mar-Mon Mer-Mer 
Begin 02-11-2009 Begin 18-09-2010 Begin 31-03-2012 Begin 07-09-2012 Begin 12-10-2013 
18-09-2010 31-03-2012 07-09-2012 12-10-2013 01-06-2016 


02-11-2009 18-09-2010 31-03-2012 07-09-2012 12-10-2013 
07-12-2009 05-01-2011 09-04-2012 01-11-2012 12-03-2014 
08-02-2010 05-02-2011 01-05-2012 01-12-2012 10-06-2014 
25-02-2010 24-04-2011 13-05-2012 02-02-2013 26-11-2014 
11-04-2010 04-06-2011 07-06-2012 11-03-2013 13-03-2015 
05-05-2010 31-08-2011 22-06-2012 20-05-2013 17-09-2015 
24-06-2010 22-10-2011 20-07-2012 04-07-2013 09-11-2015 
24-07-2010 29-01-2012 07-08-2012 20-09-2013 22-03-2016 


Mer-Sat Mer-Jup Mer-Rah Mer-Ven Mer-Sun 


Begin 01-06-2016 Begin 20-12-2017 Begin 01-12-2020 Begin 12-10-2022 Begin 14-01-2026 
20-12-2017 01-12-2020 12-10-2022 14-01-2026 20-12-2026 


01-06-2016 20-12-2017 01-12-2020 12-10-2022 14-01-2026 
24-07-2016 27-06-2018 14-02-2021 31-05-2023 01-02-2026 
31-10-2016 25-10-2018 26-06-2021 05-08-2023 21-03-2026 
02-01-2017 22-05-2019 03-08-2021 17-01-2024 15-04-2026 
23-04-2017 21-07-2019 06-11-2021 14-04-2024 07-06-2026 
24-05-2017 18-12-2019 26-12-2021 19-10-2024 09-07-2026 
11-08-2017 06-03-2020 12-04-2022 06-02-2025 07-09-2026 
22-09-2017 23-08-2020 14-06-2022 03-09-2025 14-10-2026 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 37 


STEVE JOBS 


Mer-Mon 


Ashtottari (Short) AD and PD #4 


Ashtottari Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 


Sat-Sat 


Mer-Mar 


Sat-Jup 


Sat-Rah 


Begin 20-12-2026 
18-04-2029 


Begin 18-04-2029 
15-07-2030 


Begin 15-07-2030 


End 


13-06-2031 


Begin 13-06-2031 
End — 08-03-2033 


Begin 08-03-2033 
End = 12-04-2034 


20-12-2026 
17-04-2027 
19-06-2027 
30-10-2027 
17-01-2028 
15-06-2028 
17-09-2028 
01-03-2029 


18-04-2029 
21-05-2029 
31-07-2029 
11-09-2029 
30-11-2029 
20-01-2030 
18-04-2030 
13-05-2030 


Sat 
Jup 
Rah 
Ven 
Sun 


15-07-2030 
15-08-2030 
12-10-2030 
18-11-2030 
22-01-2031 
10-02-2031 
28-03-2031 
22-04-2031 


Jup 13-06-2031 
03-10-2031 
12-12-2031 
13-04-2032 
18-05-2032 
14-08-2032 
30-09-2032 
08-01-2033 


08-03-2033 
21-04-2033 
08-07-2033 
30-07-2033 
24-09-2033 
23-10-2033 
25-12-2033 
31-01-2034 


Sat-Ven 


Sat-Sun 


Sat-Mon 


Sat-Mar 


Sat-Mer 


Begin 12-04-2034 
12-03-2036 


12-04-2034 
26-08-2034 
04-10-2034 
09-01-2035 
02-03-2035 
20-06-2035 
24-08-2035 
25-12-2035 


Begin 12-03-2036 
28-09-2036 


12-03-2036 
23-03-2036 
19-04-2036 
04-05-2036 
05-06-2036 
23-06-2036 
28-07-2036 
20-08-2036 


Begin 28-09-2036 


10-02-2038 


28-09-2036 
06-12-2036 
12-01-2037 
01-04-2037 
17-05-2037 
13-08-2037 
08-10-2037 
13-01-2038 


Begin 10-02-2038 
03-11-2038 


10-02-2038 
01-03-2038 
12-04-2038 
07-05-2038 
23-06-2038 
22-07-2038 
12-09-2038 
27-09-2038 


Begin 03-11-2038 
23-05-2040 


03-11-2038 
31-01-2039 
25-03-2039 
03-07-2039 
04-09-2039 
23-12-2039 
23-01-2040 
11-04-2040 


Jup-Jup 


Jup-Rah> 


Jup-Ven 


Jup-Sun 


Jup-Mon 


Begin 23-05-2040 
08-09-2043 


23-05-2040 
21-12-2040 
03-05-2041 
23-12-2041 
28-02-2042 
14-08-2042 
11-11-2042 
20-05-2043 


Begin 08-09-2043 
07-10-2045 


08-09-2043 
02-12-2043 
27-04-2044 
09-06-2044 
22-09-2044 
17-11-2044 
17-03-2045 
26-05-2045 


Begin 07-10-2045 


29-05-2049 


07-10-2045 
23-06-2046 
05-09-2046 
08-03-2047 
15-06-2047 
10-01-2048 
12-05-2048 
01-01-2049 


Begin 29-05-2049 
13-06-2050 


29-05-2049 
19-06-2049 
11-08-2049 
08-09-2049 
07-11-2049 
12-12-2049 
17-02-2050 
31-03-2050 


Begin 13-06-2050 
18-01-2053 


13-06-2050 
23-10-2050 
02-01-2051 
31-05-2051 
27-08-2051 
10-02-2052 
26-05-2052 
26-11-2052 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 38 


STEVE JOBS 


Yogini Dasha - First Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth 
Dasha at the time of birth 


Bhadrika (5y) 
From 0 yrs. to Oy 9m 


(First Cycle) 


Ulka (6y) 
From 0y 9m to 6y 8m 


: Bhadrika Oy 9m 18d 
: Bhadrika-Bhadrika 


Siddha (7y) 


From 6y 8mto 13y 7m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Bhad Me 
Ulka Sa 
Sidh Ve 
Sank Ra 
Mang Mo 
Ping Su 
Dhan Ju 24-02-1955 26-05-1955 
Bhra Ma 26-05-1955 12-12-1955 


Ulka Sa 12-12-1955 06-12-1956 
Sidh Ve 06-12-1956 30-01-1958 
Sank Ra 30-01-1958 25-05-1959 
Mang Mo 25-05-1959 24-07-1959 
Ping Su 24-07-1959 21-11-1959 
Dhan Ju 21-11-1959 19-05-1960 
Bhra Ma 19-05-1960 14-01-1961 
Bhad Me 14-01-1961 10-11-1961 


Sidh Ve 10-11-1961 15-03-1963 
Sank Ra 15-03-1963 25-09-1964 
MangMo 25-09-1964 04-12-1964 
Ping Su 04-12-1964 23-04-1965 
Dhan Ju 23-04-1965 19-11-1965 
Bhra Ma 19-11-1965 26-08-1966 
Bhad Me 26-08-1966 11-08-1967 
Ulka Sa 11-08-1967 04-10-1968 


Sankata (8y) 


From l3y 7mto 2ly5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sank Ra 04-10-1968 06-07-1970 


Mang Mo 06-07-1970 24-09-1970 
Ping Su 24-09-1970 03-03-1971 
Dhan Ju 03-03-1971 29-10-1971 
Bhra Ma 29-10-1971 13-09-1972 
Bhad Me 13-09-1972 18-10-1973 
Ulka Sa 18-10-1973 10-02-1975 


Sidh Ve 10-02-1975 23-08-1976 


Mangala (ly) 
From 2ly 5mto 22y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
MangMo 23-08-1976 02-09-1976 


Ping Su 02-09-1976 22-09-1976 
Dhan Ju. 22-09-1976 22-10-1976 
Bhra Ma 22-10-1976 01-12-1976 
Bhad Me 01-12-1976 20-01-1977 
Ulka Sa 20-01-1977 21-03-1977 
Sidh Ve 21-03-1977 30-05-1977 


Sank Ra 30-05-1977 18-08-1977 


Pingala (2y) 
From 22y5mto 24y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Ping Su 18-08-1977 27-09-1977 


Dhan Ju 27-09-1977 26-11-1977 
Bhra Ma 26-11-1977 14-02-1978 
Bhad Me 14-02-1978 25-05-1978 
Ulka Sa 25-05-1978 22-09-1978 
Sidh Ve 22-09-1978 09-02-1979 
Sank Ra 09-02-1979 19-07-1979 


Mang Mo 19-07-1979 08-08-1979 


Dhanya (3y) 
From 24y 5mto 27y 4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Dhan Ju 08-08-1979 06-11-1979 


Bhra Ma 06-11-1979 05-03-1980 
Bhad Me 05-03-1980 02-08-1980 
Ulka Sa 02-08-1980 29-01-1981 
Sidh Ve 29-01-1981 27-08-1981 
Sank Ra 27-08-1981 24-04-1982 
MangMo 24-04-1982 24-05-1982 


Ping Su 24-05-1982 23-07-1982 


Bhramari (4y) 
From 27y 4mto 3ly4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 23-07-1982 30-12-1982 


Bhad Me 30-12-1982 18-07-1983 
Ulka Sa 18-07-1983 14-03-1984 
Sidh Ve 14-03-1984 19-12-1984 
Sank Ra 19-12-1984 04-11-1985 
Mang Mo 04-11-1985 14-12-1985 
Ping Su 14-12-1985 04-03-1986 


Dhan Ju 04-03-1986 02-07-1986 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 39 


STEVE JOBS 


Yogini Dasha - Second Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Bhadrika (5y) 
From 3ly4mto 36y3m 


(Second Cycle) 


Ulka (6y) 
From 36y3mto 42y2m 


Siddha (7y) 
From 42y2mto 49ylm 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Bhad Me 02-07-1986 09-03-1987 
Ulka Sa 09-03-1987 03-01-1988 
Sidh Ve 03-01-1988 18-12-1988 
Sank Ra 18-12-1988 22-01-1990 
MangMo 22-01-1990 13-03-1990 
Ping Su 13-03-1990 21-06-1990 
Dhan Ju 21-06-1990 18-11-1990 
Bhra Ma 18-11-1990 06-06-1991 


Ulka Sa 06-06-1991 31-05-1992 
Sidh Ve 31-05-1992 25-07-1993 
Sank Ra 25-07-1993 17-11-1994 
MangMo 17-11-1994 16-01-1995 
Ping Su 16-01-1995 16-05-1995 
Dhan Ju 16-05-1995 12-11-1995 
Bhra Ma 12-11-1995 09-07-1996 
Bhad Me 09-07-1996 05-05-1997 


Sidh Ve 05-05-1997 07-09-1998 
Sank Ra 07-09-1998 20-03-2000 
Mang Mo 20-03-2000 29-05-2000 
Ping Su 29-05-2000 16-10-2000 
Dhan Ju 16-10-2000 14-05-2001 
Bhra Ma 14-05-2001 18-02-2002 
Bhad Me 18-02-2002 03-02-2003 
Ulka Sa 03-02-2003 29-03-2004 


Sankata (8y) 
From 49ylmto S6yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sank Ra 29-03-2004 29-12-2005 


Mang Mo 29-12-2005 19-03-2006 
Ping Su 19-03-2006 26-08-2006 
Dhan Ju 26-08-2006 23-04-2007 
Bhra Ma 23-04-2007 08-03-2008 
Bhad Me 08-03-2008 12-04-2009 
Ulka Sa 12-04-2009 05-08-2010 


Sidh Ve 05-08-2010 16-02-2012 


Mangala (ly) 
From 56yllmto 57yllm 


Antar Beginning Ending 
MangMo 16-02-2012 26-02-2012 


Ping Su 26-02-2012 17-03-2012 
Dhan Ju 17-03-2012 16-04-2012 
Bhra Ma 16-04-2012 26-05-2012 
Bhad Me 26-05-2012 15-07-2012 
Ulka Sa 15-07-2012 13-09-2012 
Sidh Ve 13-09-2012 22-11-2012 


Sank Ra 22-11-2012 10-02-2013 


Pingala (2y) 
From 57yllmto S59yl1m 
Antar Beginning Ending 


Ping Su 10-02-2013 22-03-2013 
Dhan Ju 22-03-2013 21-05-2013 
Bhra Ma 21-05-2013 09-08-2013 
Bhad Me 09-08-2013 17-11-2013 
Ulka Sa 17-11-2013 17-03-2014 
Sidh Ve 17-03-2014 04-08-2014 
Sank Ra 04-08-2014 11-01-2015 
MangMo 11-01-2015 31-01-2015 


Dhanya (3y) 
From 59yllmto 62y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Dhan Ju 31-01-2015 01-05-2015 


Bhra Ma 01-05-2015 29-08-2015 
Bhad Me 29-08-2015 26-01-2016 
Ulka Sa 26-01-2016 24-07-2016 
Sidh Ve 24-07-2016 19-02-2017 
Sank Ra 19-02-2017 17-10-2017 
MangMo 17-10-2017 16-11-2017 


Ping Su 16-11-2017 15-01-2018 


Bhramari (4y) 
From 62y10m to 66y10m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 15-01-2018 24-06-2018 


Bhad Me 24-06-2018 10-01-2019 
Ulka Sa 10-01-2019 07-09-2019 
Sidh Ve 07-09-2019 13-06-2020 
Sank Ra 13-06-2020 29-04-2021 
MangMo 29-04-2021 08-06-2021 
Ping Su 08-06-2021 27-08-2021 


Dhan Ju 27-08-2021 25-12-2021 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 40 


STEVE JOBS 


Yogini Dasha - Third Cycle 


Yogini Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Bhadrika (5y) 
From 66y10m to 71y9m 


(Third Cycle) 


Ulka (6y) 
From 7ly9m to 77y8m 


Siddha (7y) 
From 77y8m to 84y6m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Bhad Me 25-12-2021 01-09-2022 
Ulka Sa 01-09-2022 28-06-2023 
Sidh Ve 28-06-2023 12-06-2024 
Sank Ra 12-06-2024 17-07-2025 
MangMo 17-07-2025 05-09-2025 
Ping Su 05-09-2025 14-12-2025 
Dhan Ju. 14-12-2025 13-05-2026 
Bhra Ma 13-05-2026 29-11-2026 


Ulka Sa 29-11-2026 24-11-2027 
Sidh Ve 24-11-2027 17-01-2029 
Sank Ra 17-01-2029 12-05-2030 
Mang Mo 12-05-2030 11-07-2030 
Ping Su 11-07-2030 08-11-2030 
Dhan Ju 08-11-2030 07-05-2031 
Bhra Ma 07-05-2031 02-01-2032 
Bhad Me 02-01-2032 28-10-2032 


Sidh Ve 28-10-2032 02-03-2034 
Sank Ra 02-03-2034 13-09-2035 
MangMo 13-09-2035 22-11-2035 
Ping Su 22-11-2035 10-04-2036 
Dhan Ju 10-04-2036 06-11-2036 
Bhra Ma 06-11-2036 13-08-2037 
Bhad Me 13-08-2037 29-07-2038 
Ulka Sa 29-07-2038 22-09-2039 


Sankata (8y) 
From 84y6m to 92y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Sank Ra 22-09-2039 23-06-2041 


MangMo 23-06-2041 11-09-2041 
Ping Su 11-09-2041 18-02-2042 
Dhan Ju 18-02-2042 16-10-2042 
Bhra Ma 16-10-2042 91 99.2043 
Bhad Me 01-09-2043 05-10-2044 
Ulka Sa 05-10-2044 28-01-2046 


Sidh Ve 28-01-2046 11-08-2047 


Mangala (ly) 
From 92y5mto 93y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
MangMo 11-08-2047 21-08-2047 


Ping Su 21-08-2047 10-09-2047 
Dhan Ju 10-09-2047 10-10-2047 
Bhra Ma 10-10-2047 19-11-2047 
Bhad Me 19-11-2047 08-01-2048 
Ulka Sa 08-01-2048 08-03-2048 
Sidh Ve 08-03-2048 17-05-2048 


Sank Ra 17-05-2048 05-08-2048 


Pingala (2y) 
From 93y5mto 95y5m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Ping Su 05-08-2048 14-09-2048 


Dhan Ju 14-09-2048 13-11-2048 
Bhra Ma 13-11-2048 01-02-2049 
Bhad Me 01-02-2049 12-05-2049 
Ulka Sa 12-05-2049 09-09-2049 
Sidh Ve 09-09-2049 27-01-2050 
Sank Ra 27-01-2050 06-07-2050 


Mang Mo 06-07-2050 26-07-2050 


Dhanya (3y) 
From 95y5mto 98y4m 


Antar Beginning Ending 


Dhan Ju_ 26-07-2050 24-10-2050 


Bhra Ma 24-10-2050 21-02-2051 
Bhad Me 21-02-2051 21-07-2051 
Ulka Sa 21-07-2051 17-01-2052 
Sidh Ve 17-01-2052 14-08-2052 
Sank Ra 14-08-2052 11-04-2053 
MangMo 11-04-2053 11-05-2053 


Ping Su 11-05-2053 10-07-2053 


Bhramari (4y) 


From 98y4mto  102y3m 


Antar Beginning Ending 
Bhra Ma 10-07-2053 17-12-2053 


Bhad Me 17-12-2053 05-07-2054 
Ulka Sa 05-07-2054 02-03-2055 
Sidh Ve 02-03-2055 07-12-2055 
Sank Ra 07-12-2055 22-10-2056 
Mang Mo 22-10-2056 01-12-2056 
Ping Su 01-12-2056 19-02-2057 


Dhan Ju 19-02-2057 19-06-2057 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 41 


STEVE JOBS (3 Kala Chakra Dasha — MD and AD 


Kala Chakra Mahadasha and Antardashas 


Dasha balance at birth : Gemini 4y 6m 14d * Jeeva Rashi : Sagittarius * Deha Rashi : Cancer 


Gem (9y) dyOm* Can (21y) 54y9m Leo (5y) 6ly8m_ Vir (Dy) Tly 6m 
Beginning Beginning 08-09-1959 Beginning 20-05-1980 Beginning 24-04-1985 
08-09-1959 Ending 20-05-1980 Ending 24-04-1985 Ending 08-03-1994 

Sag 10 08-09-1959 11 20-05-1980 12  Pis 24-04-1985 
30-05-1961 12 Pi 17-10-1980 11 Aqu — 19-01-1986 
19-02-1963 16-03-1981 10 Cap 16-10-1986 
10-11-1964 13-08-1981 Sag 13-07-1987 
02-08-1966 10-01-1982 Sco 08-04-1988 
23-04-1968 09-06-1982 Lib 03-01-1989 
13-01-1970 06-11-1982 Vir 30-09-1989 
05-10-1971 05-04-1983 Leo 27-06-1990 
26-06-1973 02-09-1983 Can =. 24-03-1991 
18-03-1975 30-01-1984 Gem = 19-12-1991 
07-12-1976 Sag 28-06-1984 Tau 14-09-1992 
29-08-1978 Cap 25-11-1984 Ari 11-06-1993 


\o 
= 
\o 


24-02-1955 
02-04-1955 
28-12-1955 
23-09-1956 
20-06-1957 
17-03-1958 
12-12-1958 


Ne NWN DH ~1 


— 
Swe AIAN WN 


ma NW UH ~1 


— 
— 
— 


Lib (16y) 75y6m Sco (7y) 79y5m_ Sag (10y) 89y3m Cap (4y) 96y 2m 


Beginning 08-03-1994 Beginning 14-12-2009 Beginning 07-11-2016 Beginning 16-09-2026 
Ending 14-12-2009 Ending 07-11-2016 Ending 16-09-2026 Ending 26-08-2030 
i 08-03-1994 Sco 14-12-2009 Sag 07-11-2016 10 Cap 16-09-2026 
01-07-1995 Lib 12-07-2010 Cap 03-09-2017 Sag 14-01-2027 

23-10-1996 Vir 07-02-2011 30-06-2018 Sco 14-05-2027 

15-02-1998 05-09-2011 26-04-2019 Lib 11-09-2027 

10-06-1999 02-04-2012 20-02-2020 09-01-2028 

02-10-2000 29-10-2012 16-12-2020 08-05-2028 

25-01-2002 27-05-2013 12-10-2021 05-09-2028 

20-05-2003 i 23-12-2013 08-08-2022 03-01-2029 

11-09-2004 i 21-07-2014 04-06-2023 03-05-2029 

04-01-2006 16-02-2015 i 30-03-2024 31-08-2029 

29-04-2007 14-09-2015 i 24-01-2025 29-12-2029 

21-08-2008 Sag 11-04-2016 20-11-2025 28-04-2030 


= Ne NW RUTH ~1 DO 6 


— 


Illy llm_ Pis (10y) 120y10m_ Ari (Ty) l4ly6m Tau (16y) 146y 5m 


26-08-2030 Beginning 05-08-2034 Beginning 13-06-2044 Beginning 08-05-2051 
05-08-2034 Ending 13-06-2044 Ending 08-05-2051 Ending 13-02-2067 
26-08-2030 12 Pis 05-08-2034 1 13-06-2044 Sco 08-05-2051 
24-12-2030 11 01-06-2035 09-01-2045 Lib 30-08-2052 
23-04-2031 10 27-03-2036 07-08-2045 i 23-12-2053 
21-08-2031 21-01-2037 05-03-2046 17-04-2055 
19-12-2031 17-11-2037 01-10-2046 09-08-2056 
17-04-2032 13-09-2038 29-04-2047 02-12-2057 
15-08-2032 10-07-2039 i 25-11-2047 27-03-2059 
13-12-2032 05-05-2040 22-06-2048 i 19-07-2060 
12-04-2033 01-03-2041 Sag 18-01-2049 i 11-11-2061 
10-08-2033 26-12-2041 Cap 16-08-2049 06-03-2063 
08-12-2033 22-10-2042 Aqu 14-03-2050 28-06-2064 
07-04-2034 18-08-2043 Pis 10-10-2050 21-10-2065 


* The dates are Dasha beginning dates * 


Swe OAANIAMN EWN 
\o 


ma Nw H ~1 


— 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 42 


STEVE JOBS 


Begin 24-02-1955 
End 02-04-1955 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #1 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Sagittarius * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Begin 02-04-1955 
End 28-12-1955 


Begin 28-12-1955 
End 23-09-1956 


Begin 23-09-1956 
End 20-06-1957 


Begin 20-06-1957 
End _ 17-03-1958 


Sco 
Lib 


Cap 24-02-1955 
Sag D_ 10-03-1955 


Gem-Lib 


Sag D 02-04-1955 
Cap 24-04-1955 
Aqu 17-05-1955 
Pis 08-06-1955 
Ari 01-07-1955 
23-07-1955 
15-08-1955 
06-09-1955 
29-09-1955 
21-10-1955 
13-11-1955 
05-12-1955 


Gem-Sco 


Cap 28-12-1955 
SagD 19-01-1956 
Sco 11-02-1956 
Lib 04-03-1956 
27-03-1956 
18-04-1956 
11-05-1956 
02-06-1956 
25-06-1956 
17-07-1956 
09-08-1956 
31-08-1956 


Aqu 23-09-1956 
Pis 15-10-1956 
Ari 07-11-1956 
29-11-1956 
22-12-1956 
13-01-1957 
05-02-1957 
27-02-1957 
22-03-1957 
13-04-1957 
06-05-1957 
28-05-1957 


Pis 20-06-1957 
Aqu = 12-07-1957 
Cap 04-08-1957 
Sag D 26-08-1957 
Sco —- 18-09-1957 
Lib 10-10-1957 
i 02-11-1957 
24-11-1957 
17-12-1957 
08-01-1958 
31-01-1958 
22-02-1958 


Can-Sco 


Begin 17-03-1958 
12-12-1958 
17-03-1958 
08-04-1958 
01-05-1958 
23-05-1958 
15-06-1958 
07-07-1958 
30-07-1958 

Sco 21-08-1958 

Sag D 13-09-1958 

Cap 05-10-1958 

Aqu 28-10-1958 

Pis 19-11-1958 


Begin 12-12-1958 
08-09-1959 
12-12-1958 
03-01-1959 
26-01-1959 
17-02-1959 
12-03-1959 
03-04-1959 
26-04-1959 
18-05-1959 
10-06-1959 
02-07-1959 

Cap =. 25-07-1959 

Sag D_ 16-08-1959 


Begin 08-09-1959 
30-05-1961 
08-09-1959 
30-10-1959 
22-12-1959 
12-02-1960 
05-04-1960 
27-05-1960 
19-07-1960 
09-09-1960 
01-11-1960 
23-12-1960 
14-02-1961 
07-04-1961 


Begin 30-05-1961 
19-02-1963 
30-05-1961 
21-07-1961 
12-09-1961 
03-11-1961 
26-12-1961 
16-02-1962 
10-04-1962 
01-06-1962 
24-07-1962 
14-09-1962 
06-11-1962 
28-12-1962 


Begin 19-02-1963 
10-11-1964 
19-02-1963 
12-04-1963 
04-06-1963 
26-07-1963 
17-09-1963 
08-11-1963 
31-12-1963 
21-02-1964 
14-04-1964 
05-06-1964 

Cap 28-07-1964 

SagD 18-09-1964 


Can-Lib 
Begin 10-11-1964 


Can-Vir 
Begin 02-08-1966 


Begin 23-04-1968 
End 13-01-1970 


Begin 13-01-1970 
End 05-10-1971 


Can-Gem 
Begin 05-10-1971 
End 26-06-1973 


End 02-08-1966 
Ari 10-11-1964 
01-01-1965 
23-02-1965 
16-04-1965 
08-06-1965 
30-07-1965 
21-09-1965 
12-11-1965 
04-01-1966 
25-02-1966 
19-04-1966 
10-06-1966 


End 23-04-1968 


Pis 02-08-1966 
Aqu 23-09-1966 
Cap ‘15-11-1966 
Sag D 06-01-1967 
Sco 28-02-1967 
i 21-04-1967 
13-06-1967 
04-08-1967 
26-09-1967 
17-11-1967 
09-01-1968 
01-03-1968 


Aqu 23-04-1968 
Pis 14-06-1968 
Ari 06-08-1968 
Tau 27-09-1968 
Gem 19-11-1968 
CanJ 10-01-1969 
Leo 04-03-1969 
Vir 25-04-1969 

17-06-1969 
Sco 08-08-1969 

30-09-1969 

21-11-1969 


Cap 13-01-1970 
Sag D 06-03-1970 
Sco 28-04-1970 
Lib 19-06-1970 
i 11-08-1970 
02-10-1970 
24-11-1970 
15-01-1971 
09-03-1971 
30-04-1971 
22-06-1971 
13-08-1971 


SagD 05-10-1971 
Cap 26-11-1971 
Agu 18-01-1972 
Pis 10-03-1972 
Ari 02-05-1972 
23-06-1972 
15-08-1972 
06-10-1972 
28-11-1972 
19-01-1973 
13-03-1973 
04-05-1973 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 43 


STEVE JOBS 


Begin 26-06-1973 
End 18-03-1975 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #2 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Sagittarius * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Can-Ari 
Begin 18-03-1975 


07-12-1976 


Begin 07-12-1976 
End 29-08-1978 


Begin 29-08-1978 
End 20-05-1980 


Begin 20-05-1980 
End _ 17-10-1980 


Sco 26-06-1973 
Lib 17-08-1973 
i 09-10-1973 
30-11-1973 
22-01-1974 
15-03-1974 
07-05-1974 
28-06-1974 
20-08-1974 
11-10-1974 
03-12-1974 

Sag D 24-01-1975 


Leo-Pis 


End 


18-03-1975 
09-05-1975 
01-07-1975 
22-08-1975 
14-10-1975 
05-12-1975 
27-01-1976 
19-03-1976 
11-05-1976 
02-07-1976 
24-08-1976 
15-10-1976 


Leo-Ari 


Pis 07-12-1976 
Aqu 28-01-1977 
Cap 22-03-1977 
Sag D_ 13-05-1977 
Sco 05-07-1977 
26-08-1977 
18-10-1977 
09-12-1977 
31-01-1978 
24-03-1978 
16-05-1978 
07-07-1978 


Leo-Tau 


Aqu 29-08-1978 
Pis 20-10-1978 
Ari 12-12-1978 
02-02-1979 
27-03-1979 
18-05-1979 
10-07-1979 
31-08-1979 
23-10-1979 
14-12-1979 
05-02-1980 
28-03-1980 


Leo-Gem 


20-05-1980 
01-06-1980 
14-06-1980 
26-06-1980 
09-07-1980 
21-07-1980 
03-08-1980 
15-08-1980 
28-08-1980 
09-09-1980 
22-09-1980 
04-10-1980 


Leo-Can 


Begin 17-10-1980 
16-03-1981 
17-10-1980 
29-10-1980 
11-11-1980 
23-11-1980 
06-12-1980 
18-12-1980 
31-12-1980 
12-01-1981 
25-01-1981 
06-02-1981 
19-02-1981 
03-03-1981 


Begin 16-03-1981 
13-08-1981 
16-03-1981 
28-03-1981 
10-04-1981 
22-04-1981 
05-05-1981 
17-05-1981 
30-05-1981 
11-06-1981 
24-06-1981 
06-07-1981 
19-07-1981 
31-07-1981 


Begin 13-08-1981 
10-01-1982 
13-08-1981 
25-08-1981 
07-09-1981 
19-09-1981 
02-10-1981 
14-10-1981 
27-10-1981 
08-11-1981 
21-11-1981 
03-12-1981 

Cap 16-12-1981 

Sag D 28-12-1981 


Begin 10-01-1982 
09-06-1982 
10-01-1982 
22-01-1982 
04-02-1982 
16-02-1982 
01-03-1982 
13-03-1982 
26-03-1982 
07-04-1982 
20-04-1982 
02-05-1982 
15-05-1982 
27-05-1982 


Begin 09-06-1982 
06-11-1982 
09-06-1982 
21-06-1982 
04-07-1982 
16-07-1982 
29-07-1982 
10-08-1982 
23-08-1982 
04-09-1982 
17-09-1982 
29-09-1982 
12-10-1982 
24-10-1982 


Leo-Leo 
Begin 06-11-1982 
End = 05-04-1983 


Leo-Vir 
Begin 05-04-1983 


Leo-Lib 
Begin 02-09-1983 


Begin 30-01-1984 
End 28-06-1984 


Begin 28-06-1984 
End 25-11-1984 


Aqu 06-11-1982 
Pis 18-11-1982 
i 01-12-1982 
13-12-1982 
26-12-1982 
07-01-1983 
20-01-1983 
01-02-1983 
14-02-1983 
26-02-1983 
11-03-1983 
23-03-1983 


End 02-09-1983 


Pis 05-04-1983 
Aqu 17-04-1983 
Cap 30-04-1983 
SagD 12-05-1983 
Sco 25-05-1983 
ib 06-06-1983 
19-06-1983 
01-07-1983 
14-07-1983 
26-07-1983 
08-08-1983 
20-08-1983 


End 30-01-1984 


Ari 02-09-1983 
14-09-1983 
27-09-1983 
09-10-1983 
22-10-1983 
03-11-1983 
16-11-1983 
28-11-1983 
11-12-1983 
23-12-1983 
05-01-1984 
17-01-1984 


Sco 30-01-1984 
Lib 11-02-1984 
i 24-02-1984 
07-03-1984 
20-03-1984 
01-04-1984 
14-04-1984 
26-04-1984 
09-05-1984 
21-05-1984 
Cap 03-06-1984 
Sag D_ 15-06-1984 


Sag D 28-06-1984 
Cap 10-07-1984 
Agu 23-07-1984 
Pis 04-08-1984 
Ari 17-08-1984 
29-08-1984 
11-09-1984 
23-09-1984 
06-10-1984 
18-10-1984 
31-10-1984 
12-11-1984 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 * 44 


STEVE JOBS 


Begin 25-11-1984 
End = 24-04-1985 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #3 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Sagittarius * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Vir-Pis 
Begin 24-04-1985 
End 19-01-1986 


Begin 19-01-1986 
End 16-10-1986 


Begin 16-10-1986 
End 13-07-1987 


Vir-Sag 
Begin 13-07-1987 
End 08-04-1988 


Cap 25-11-1984 
Sag D 07-12-1984 
Sco 20-12-1984 
Lib 01-01-1985 
14-01-1985 
26-01-1985 
08-02-1985 
20-02-1985 
05-03-1985 
17-03-1985 
30-03-1985 
11-04-1985 


Vir-Sco 


Pis 24-04-1985 
Aqu = 16-05-1985 
Cap 08-06-1985 
Sag D 30-06-1985 
Sco 23-07-1985 
1 14-08-1985 
06-09-1985 
28-09-1985 
21-10-1985 
12-11-1985 
05-12-1985 
27-12-1985 


Vir-Lib 


19-01-1986 
10-02-1986 
05-03-1986 
27-03-1986 
19-04-1986 
11-05-1986 
03-06-1986 
25-06-1986 
18-07-1986 
09-08-1986 
01-09-1986 
23-09-1986 


Vir-Vir 


Cap 16-10-1986 
Sag D 07-11-1986 
Sco 30-11-1986 
Lib = 22-12-1986 
14-01-1987 
05-02-1987 
28-02-1987 
22-03-1987 
14-04-1987 
06-05-1987 
29-05-1987 
20-06-1987 


Vir-Leo 


Sag D_ 13-07-1987 
Cap 04-08-1987 
Aqu 27-08-1987 
Pis 18-09-1987 
Ari 11-10-1987 
02-11-1987 
25-11-1987 
17-12-1987 
09-01-1988 
31-01-1988 
23-02-1988 
16-03-1988 


Vir-Can 


Begin 08-04-1988 
03-01-1989 
08-04-1988 
30-04-1988 
23-05-1988 
14-06-1988 
07-07-1988 
29-07-1988 
21-08-1988 
12-09-1988 
05-10-1988 
27-10-1988 

Cap 19-11-1988 

Sag D_ 11-12-1988 


Begin 03-01-1989 
30-09-1989 
03-01-1989 
25-01-1989 
17-02-1989 
11-03-1989 
03-04-1989 
25-04-1989 
18-05-1989 
09-06-1989 
02-07-1989 
24-07-1989 
16-08-1989 
07-09-1989 


Begin 30-09-1989 
27-06-1990 
30-09-1989 
22-10-1989 
14-11-1989 
06-12-1989 
29-12-1989 
20-01-1990 
12-02-1990 
06-03-1990 
29-03-1990 
20-04-1990 
13-05-1990 
04-06-1990 


Begin 27-06-1990 
24-03-1991 
27-06-1990 
19-07-1990 
11-08-1990 
02-09-1990 
25-09-1990 
17-10-1990 
09-11-1990 
01-12-1990 
24-12-1990 

Sco 15-01-1991 

Sag D 07-02-1991 

Cap 01-03-1991 


Begin 24-03-1991 
19-12-1991 
24-03-1991 
15-04-1991 
08-05-1991 
30-05-1991 
22-06-1991 
14-07-1991 
06-08-1991 
28-08-1991 
20-09-1991 
12-10-1991 
04-11-1991 
26-11-1991 


Vir-Gem 
19-12-1991 
14-09-1992 


Vir-Tau 
Begin 14-09-1992 
End 11-06-1993 


Vir-Ari 
Begin 11-06-1993 


Lib-Ari 
Begin 08-03-1994 


Begin 01-07-1995 


End 23-10-1996 


19-12-1991 
10-01-1992 
02-02-1992 
24-02-1992 
18-03-1992 
09-04-1992 
02-05-1992 
24-05-1992 
16-06-1992 
08-07-1992 
31-07-1992 
22-08-1992 


Sco 14-09-1992 
Lib 06-10-1992 
i 29-10-1992 
20-11-1992 
13-12-1992 
04-01-1993 
27-01-1993 
18-02-1993 
13-03-1993 
04-04-1993 
Cap 27-04-1993 
Sag D_ 19-05-1993 


End 08-03-1994 


Ari 11-06-1993 
03-07-1993 
26-07-1993 
17-08-1993 
09-09-1993 
01-10-1993 
24-10-1993 
15-11-1993 
08-12-1993 
30-12-1993 
22-01-1994 
13-02-1994 


End 01-07-1995 


Ari 08-03-1994 
17-04-1994 
27-05-1994 
06-07-1994 
15-08-1994 
24-09-1994 
03-11-1994 
13-12-1994 
22-01-1995 
03-03-1995 
12-04-1995 
22-05-1995 


Sco 01-07-1995 
Lib 10-08-1995 
19-09-1995 
29-10-1995 
08-12-1995 
17-01-1996 
26-02-1996 
06-04-1996 
16-05-1996 
25-06-1996 
04-08-1996 
Sag D_ 13-09-1996 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 45 


STEVE JOBS 


Begin 23-10-1996 
End 15-02-1998 


Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #4 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Sagittarius * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Begin 15-02-1998 
End 10-06-1999 


Begin 10-06-1999 
End 02-10-2000 


Begin 02-10-2000 
End 25-01-2002 


Begin 25-01-2002 
End 20-05-2003 


Sag D 23-10-1996 
Cap 02-12-1996 
11-01-1997 
20-02-1997 
01-04-1997 
11-05-1997 
20-06-1997 
30-07-1997 
08-09-1997 
18-10-1997 
27-11-1997 
06-01-1998 


Lib-Sco 


Cap 15-02-1998 
SagD 27-03-1998 
Sco 06-05-1998 
Lib 15-06-1998 
25-07-1998 
03-09-1998 
13-10-1998 
22-11-1998 
01-01-1999 
10-02-1999 
22-03-1999 
01-05-1999 


10-06-1999 
20-07-1999 
29-08-1999 
08-10-1999 
17-11-1999 
27-12-1999 
05-02-2000 
16-03-2000 
25-04-2000 
04-06-2000 
14-07-2000 
23-08-2000 


Pis 02-10-2000 
Aqu 11-11-2000 
Cap 21-12-2000 
Sag D 30-01-2001 
Sco 11-03-2001 
Lib 20-04-2001 
i 30-05-2001 
09-07-2001 
18-08-2001 
27-09-2001 
06-11-2001 
16-12-2001 


Ari 25-01-2002 
Tau 06-03-2002 
Gem 15-04-2002 
25-05-2002 
04-07-2002 
13-08-2002 
22-09-2002 
01-11-2002 
11-12-2002 
20-01-2003 
01-03-2003 
10-04-2003 


Lib-Pis 


Begin 20-05-2003 
11-09-2004 
20-05-2003 
29-06-2003 
08-08-2003 
17-09-2003 
27-10-2003 
06-12-2003 
15-01-2004 
24-02-2004 
04-04-2004 
14-05-2004 

Cap 23-06-2004 

Sag D 02-08-2004 


Begin 11-09-2004 
04-01-2006 
11-09-2004 
21-10-2004 
30-11-2004 
09-01-2005 
18-02-2005 
30-03-2005 
09-05-2005 
18-06-2005 
28-07-2005 
06-09-2005 
16-10-2005 
25-11-2005 


Begin 04-01-2006 
29-04-2007 
04-01-2006 
13-02-2006 
25-03-2006 
04-05-2006 
13-06-2006 
23-07-2006 
01-09-2006 
11-10-2006 
20-11-2006 
30-12-2006 
08-02-2007 
20-03-2007 


Begin 29-04-2007 
21-08-2008 
29-04-2007 
08-06-2007 
18-07-2007 
27-08-2007 
06-10-2007 
15-11-2007 
25-12-2007 
03-02-2008 
14-03-2008 

Sco 23-04-2008 

SagD 02-06-2008 

Cap 12-07-2008 


Begin 21-08-2008 
14-12-2009 
21-08-2008 
30-09-2008 
09-11-2008 
19-12-2008 
28-01-2009 
09-03-2009 
18-04-2009 
28-05-2009 
07-07-2009 
16-08-2009 
25-09-2009 
04-11-2009 


Sco-Sco 
Begin 14-12-2009 
End = 12-07-2010 


Begin 12-07-2010 


Begin 07-02-2011 
End 05-09-2011 


Sco-Leo 
Begin 05-09-2011 
End 02-04-2012 


Sco-Can 
Begin 02-04-2012 
End 29-10-2012 


Sco 14-12-2009 
Lib 31-12-2009 
18-01-2010 
04-02-2010 
22-02-2010 
11-03-2010 
29-03-2010 
15-04-2010 
03-05-2010 
20-05-2010 
Cap 07-06-2010 
SagD 24-06-2010 


End 07-02-2011 


Ari 12-07-2010 
29-07-2010 
16-08-2010 
02-09-2010 
20-09-2010 
07-10-2010 
25-10-2010 
11-11-2010 
29-11-2010 
16-12-2010 
03-01-2011 
20-01-2011 


Pis 07-02-2011 
Aqu 24-02-2011 
Cap 14-03-2011 
Sag D 31-03-2011 
Sco 18-04-2011 
Lib 05-05-2011 
Vir 23-05-2011 
Leo 09-06-2011 
27-06-2011 
14-07-2011 
01-08-2011 
18-08-2011 


05-09-2011 
22-09-2011 
10-10-2011 
27-10-2011 
14-11-2011 
01-12-2011 
19-12-2011 
05-01-2012 
23-01-2012 
09-02-2012 
27-02-2012 
15-03-2012 


Cap 02-04-2012 
SagD 19-04-2012 
Sco 07-05-2012 
Lib =. 24-05-2012 
i 11-06-2012 
28-06-2012 
16-07-2012 
02-08-2012 
20-08-2012 
06-09-2012 
24-09-2012 
11-10-2012 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 46 


STEVE JOBS (3 Kala Chakra Dasha AD and PD #5 


Kala Chakra Antardasha and Pratyantardashas 


*The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. 
Jeeva Rashi : Sagittarius * Deha Rashi :Cancer 


Begin 29-10-2012 Begin 27-05-2013 Begin 23-12-2013 Begin 21-07-2014 Begin 16-02-2015 
End = 27-05-2013. End 23-12-2013 End 21-07-2014 End_ 16-02-2015 End _ 14-09-2015 
SagD 29-10-2012 Sco 27-05-2013 Ani 23-12-2013 Pis 21-07-2014 16-02-2015 
Cap = 15-11-2012 1 13-06-2013 Tau 09-01-2014 Aqu 07-08-2014 i 05-03-2015 
03-12-2012 i 01-07-2013 Gem 27-01-2014 Cap 25-08-2014 i 23-03-2015 
20-12-2012 18-07-2013 CanJ 13-02-2014 SagD 11-09-2014 09-04-2015 
07-01-2013 05-08-2013 03-03-2014 Sco 29-09-2014 27-04-2015 
24-01-2013 22-08-2013 i 20-03-2014 = Lib 16-10-2014 14-05-2015 
11-02-2013 09-09-2013 07-04-2014 i 03-11-2014 01-06-2015 
28-02-2013 i 26-09-2013 24-04-2014 20-11-2014 i 18-06-2015 
18-03-2013 i 14-10-2013 12-05-2014 08-12-2014 06-07-2015 
04-04-2013 31-10-2013 29-05-2014 25-12-2014 23-07-2015 
22-04-2013 18-11-2013 16-06-2014 12-01-2015 10-08-2015 
09-05-2013 SagD 05-12-2013 i 03-07-2014 i 29-01-2015 27-08-2015 


Begin 14-09-2015 Begin 11-04-2016 Begin 07-11-2016 Begin 03-09-2017 
11-04-2016 07-11-2016 03-09-2017 30-06-2018 
14-09-2015 11-04-2016 07-11-2016 03-09-2017 30-06-2018 
01-10-2015 28-04-2016 02-12-2016 28-09-2017 i 25-07-2018 
19-10-2015 16-05-2016 27-12-2016 23-10-2017 i 19-08-2018 
05-11-2015 i 02-06-2016 i 21-01-2017 17-11-2017 13-09-2018 
23-11-2015 i 20-06-2016 i 15-02-2017 i 12-12-2017 08-10-2018 
10-12-2015 07-07-2016 12-03-2017 06-01-2018 02-11-2018 
28-12-2015 25-07-2016 06-04-2017 31-01-2018 27-11-2018 
14-01-2016 11-08-2016 01-05-2017 25-02-2018 i 22-12-2018 
01-02-2016 29-08-2016 26-05-2017 22-03-2018 16-01-2019 
18-02-2016 i 15-09-2016 i 20-06-2017 i 16-04-2018 10-02-2019 
07-03-2016 1 03-10-2016 15-07-2017 i 11-05-2018 07-03-2019 
24-03-2016 20-10-2016 09-08-2017 05-06-2018 01-04-2019 


Begin 26-04-2019 Begin 20-02-2020 Begin 16-12-2020 Begin 12-10-2021 Begin 08-08-2022 
End = 20-02-2020 End _ 16-12-2020 End _ 12-10-2021 End _ 08-08-2022 End 04-06-2023 
Pis 26-04-2019 = Ari 20-02-2020 Sco 16-12-2020 SagD 12-10-2021 Cap 08-08-2022 
Aqu 21-05-2019 16-03-2020 = Lib 10-01-2021 Cap 06-11-2021 Sag D 02-09-2022 
Cap = 15-06-2019 10-04-2020 =“ Vir 04-02-2021 Aqu 01-12-2021 Sco 27-09-2022 
Sag D_ 10-07-2019 05-05-2020 Leo 01-03-2021  Pis 26-12-2021 Lib 22-10-2022 
Sco 04-08-2019 30-05-2020 CanJ 26-03-2021 An 20-01-2022 i 16-11-2022 
Lib 29-08-2019 i 24-06-2020 Gem 20-04-2021 14-02-2022 11-12-2022 
i 23-09-2019 1 19-07-2020 Tau 15-05-2021 11-03-2022 05-01-2023 
18-10-2019 13-08-2020 = Ari 09-06-2021 05-04-2022 30-01-2023 
12-11-2019 07-09-2020 _— Pis 04-07-2021 30-04-2022 24-02-2023 
07-12-2019 02-10-2020 Aqu 29-07-2021 i 25-05-2022 i 21-03-2023 
01-01-2020 27-10-2020 Cap 23-08-2021 1 19-06-2022 i 15-04-2023 
26-01-2020 i 21-11-2020 SagD 17-09-2021 14-07-2022 10-05-2023 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 47 


STEVE JOBS 


Jaimini System 


Jaimini System 


Chara Karakas 


Navamsha 


AK | AmK 


BK MK 


PK 


Ven Sat 


Jup Mer 


Mon 


27:56 | 27:55 


27:16 | 21:07 


14:30 


12:30 | 05:51 


24 Feb 1955 19:15:00 hrs., San Francisco, California, USA 


Ke Su 


Mo 


Ma 


Ke JuR 


Ve As 


Mo 


Su 


MeR 


Pada Chart 


6P 


Ra Gk 
Ve 


Sa 


12P 


Karakamsha (in Birth Chart) 


Swamsha (in Navamsha) 


Upapada Lagna 


Mo Ma 


Ke JuR 


Ma 


JuR Sa Mo 


Ma 


Su 


MeR 


Ra MeR| 
Gk 


Ra Gk 
Ve 


Jaimini Aspects 


Aspects between Planets in dual signs: 
Mo-Ju-Ve-Ra-Ke 
Aspects between Planets in movable and 
fixed signs: Ma-Su, Sa-Su 


Special Points 


Jaimini Hora Lagna 
Varnada Lagna 
Pranpada Lagna 
Karakamsha(in Nav) 
Arudha Lagna 
Upapada 

Yogi 

Ava Yogi 

Dagdha Rashis 
Brahma 
Maheshwara 

Rudra 


: Aquarius 22:54:26 
: Gemini 

: Aquarius 01:38:35 
: Sagittarius 

: Leo 

: Scorpio 

: Su 

: Sa 

: Leo,Cap 

: Moon 

: Venus 

: Saturn 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 + 48 


STEVE JOBS (3 Jaimini Chara Dasha #1 


Jaimini Chara Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. * Running age is given for beginning of dasha. 


Leo (6y) dyom* Virgo (8y) 5yl0m_ Libra (2y) 13y9m Scorpio (7y) 15y9m 


Beginning 24-02-1955 Beginning 23-01-1961 Beginning 12-12-1968 Beginning 02-12-1970 
Ending 23-01-1961 Ending 12-12-1968 02-12-1970 Ending 26-10-1977 
Vir 24-02-1955 Lib 23-01-1961 Sco 12-12-1968 Lib 02-12-1970 

Lib 23-08-1955 Sco 20-09-1961 10-02-1969 i 30-06-1971 

Sco 19-02-1956 Sag 18-05-1962 11-04-1969 26-01-1972 
17-08-1956 Cap 13-01-1963 10-06-1969 23-08-1972 

13-02-1957 10-09-1963 09-08-1969 21-03-1973 

12-08-1957 07-05-1964 08-10-1969 17-10-1973 

08-02-1958 02-01-1965 07-12-1969 i 15-05-1974 

07-08-1958 30-08-1965 05-02-1970 i 11-12-1974 

03-02-1959 27-04-1966 06-04-1970 09-07-1975 

02-08-1959 23-12-1966 05-06-1970 04-02-1976 

Can 29-01-1960 20-08-1967 04-08-1970 Sag 01-09-1976 

Leo 27-07-1960 16-04-1968 i 03-10-1970 Sco 30-03-1977 


Sagittarius (6y) 22y8m Capricorn (3y)  28y7m Aquarius (2y) 3lyom_ Pisces (9y) 33y6m 


Beginning 26-10-1977 Beginning 25-09-1983 Beginning 09-09-1986 Beginning 29-08-1988 
Ending 25-09-1983 Ending 09-09-1986 Ending 29-08-1988 Ending 13-07-1997 
Sco 26-10-1977 Sag 25-09-1983 12 Pis 09-09-1986 Ari 29-08-1988 

Lib 24-04-1978 Sco 24-12-1983 Ari 08-11-1986 Tau 26-05-1989 

Vir 21-10-1978 Lib 23-03-1984 07-01-1987 Gem 20-02-1990 
19-04-1979 21-06-1984 08-03-1987 Can 17-11-1990 

16-10-1979 19-09-1984 07-05-1987 Leo 14-08-1991 

13-04-1980 18-12-1984 06-07-1987 Vir 10-05-1992 

10-10-1980 18-03-1985 04-09-1987 Lib 04-02-1993 

08-04-1981 16-06-1985 03-11-1987 Sco 01-11-1993 

05-10-1981 14-09-1985 02-01-1988 Sag 29-07-1994 

03-04-1982 i 13-12-1985 Sag 02-03-1988 Cap =. 25-04-1995 

30-09-1982 13-03-1986 Cap — 01-05-1988 Aqu = 20-01-1996 

Sag 29-03-1983 11-06-1986 Aqu 30-06-1988 Pis 16-10-1996 


moe emernanh wn = 


— 


Aries (12y) 42y4m Taurus (7y) 54y2m Gemini (7y) 6lylm Cancer (4y) 68y0m 


Beginning 13-07-1997 Beginning 11-05-2009 Beginning 04-04-2016 Beginning 27-02-2023 
Ending 11-05-2009 04-04-2016 27-02-2023 Ending 06-02-2027 
13-07-1997 Ari 11-05-2009 Tau 04-04-2016 Gem =. 27-02-2023 
08-07-1998 Pis 07-12-2009 Ari 31-10-2016 Tau 27-06-2023 
03-07-1999 05-07-2010 Pis 29-05-2017 Ari 25-10-2023 
27-06-2000 Cap 31-01-2011 25-12-2017 Pis 22-02-2024 
22-06-2001 Sag 29-08-2011 23-07-2018 Aqu =. 21-06-2024 
17-06-2002 26-03-2012 18-02-2019 Cap 19-10-2024 
12-06-2003 i 22-10-2012 16-09-2019 Sag 16-02-2025 
06-06-2004 Vir 20-05-2013 13-04-2020 Sco 16-06-2025 
01-06-2005 16-12-2013 09-11-2020 Lib 14-10-2025 
27-05-2006 14-07-2014 07-06-2021 Vir 11-02-2026 
22-05-2007 09-02-2015 03-01-2022 Leo 11-06-2026 
16-05-2008 07-09-2015 01-08-2022 Can _ 09-10-2026 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 49 


STEVE JOBS (3 Jaimini Chara Dasha #2 


Jaimini Chara Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. * Running age is given for beginning of dasha. 
Leo (6y) Tlylim Virgo (8y) 77y10m_ Libra (2y) 85y9m Scorpio (7y) 87y8m 


Beginning 06-02-2027 Beginning 05-01-2033 Beginning 24-11-2040 Beginning 14-11-2042 
Ending 05-01-2033 Ending 24-11-2040 14-11-2042 Ending 08-10-2049 
Vir 06-02-2027 Lib 05-01-2033 Sco 24-11-2040 Lib 14-11-2042 

Lib 05-08-2027 Sco 02-09-2033 23-01-2041 i 12-06-2043 

Sco 01-02-2028 Sag 30-04-2034 24-03-2041 08-01-2044 
30-07-2028 Cap =. 26-12-2034 23-05-2041 05-08-2044 

26-01-2029 23-08-2035 22-07-2041 03-03-2045 

25-07-2029 19-04-2036 20-09-2041 29-09-2045 

21-01-2030 15-12-2036 19-11-2041 i 27-04-2046 

20-07-2030 12-08-2037 18-01-2042 i 23-11-2046 

16-01-2031 09-04-2038 19-03-2042 21-06-2047 

15-07-2031 05-12-2038 18-05-2042 17-01-2048 

Can 11-01-2032 02-08-2039 17-07-2042 Sag 14-08-2048 

Leo 09-07-2032 29-03-2040 i 15-09-2042 Sco 12-03-2049 


Sagittarius (6y) 94y7m Capricorn (3y) 100y6m Aquarius(2y)  103y5m_ Pisces (9y) 105y5m 


Beginning 08-10-2049 Beginning 07-09-2055 Beginning 22-08-2058 Beginning 11-08-2060 
Ending 07-09-2055 Ending 22-08-2058 Ending 11-08-2060 Ending 25-06-2069 
Sco 08-10-2049 Sag 07-09-2055 12 Pis 22-08-2058 Ari 11-08-2060 

Lib 06-04-2050 Sco 06-12-2055 Ari 21-10-2058 Tau 08-05-2061 

Vir 03-10-2050 Lib 05-03-2056 20-12-2058 Gem 02-02-2062 
01-04-2051 i 03-06-2056 18-02-2059 Can 30-10-2062 

28-09-2051 01-09-2056 19-04-2059 Leo 27-07-2063 

26-03-2052 30-11-2056 18-06-2059 Vir 22-04-2064 

22-09-2052 28-02-2057 17-08-2059 Lib 17-01-2065 

21-03-2053 29-05-2057 16-10-2059 Sco 14-10-2065 

17-09-2053 i 27-08-2057 15-12-2059 Sag 11-07-2066 

16-03-2054 i 25-11-2057 Sag 13-02-2060 Cap 07-04-2067 

12-09-2054 23-02-2058 Cap 13-04-2060 Aqu 02-01-2068 

Sag 11-03-2055 24-05-2058 Aqu 12-06-2060 Pis 28-09-2068 


moe emernanh wn = 


— 


Aries (12y) 114y4m_ Taurus (7y) 126ylm Gemini (7y) 133y0m Cancer (4y) 139yl1m 


Beginning 25-06-2069 Beginning 23-04-2081 Beginning 17-03-2088 Beginning 09-02-2095 
Ending 23-04-2081 17-03-2088 09-02-2095 Ending 19-01-2099 
25-06-2069 Ari 23-04-2081 Tau 17-03-2088 Gem 09-02-2095 
20-06-2070 Pis 19-11-2081 Ari 13-10-2088 Tau 09-06-2095 
15-06-2071 17-06-2082 Pis 11-05-2089 Ari 07-10-2095 
09-06-2072 Cap 13-01-2083 07-12-2089 Pis 04-02-2096 
04-06-2073 Sag 11-08-2083 05-07-2090 Aqu (03-06-2096 
30-05-2074 08-03-2084 31-01-2091 Cap 01-10-2096 
25-05-2075 1 04-10-2084 29-08-2091 Sag 29-01-2097 
19-05-2076 Vir 02-05-2085 26-03-2092 Sco 29-05-2097 
14-05-2077 28-11-2085 22-10-2092 Lib 26-09-2097 
09-05-2078 26-06-2086 20-05-2093 Vir 24-01-2098 
04-05-2079 22-01-2087 16-12-2093 Leo 24-05-2098 
28-04-2080 20-08-2087 14-07-2094 Can 21-09-2098 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 50 


STEVE JOBS (3 Sthira Dasha 


Sthira Dasha 


The dates are given for dasha beginning dates. *Running age is given for dasha beginning dates. 


Pisces (9y) Oyrs.* Aries (7y) 8yrs Taurus (8y) I5yrs_ Gemini (Yy) 23yrs 
Beginning 24-02-1955 Beginning 08-01-1964 Beginning 02-12-1970 Beginning 21-10-1978 
Ending 08-01-1964 Ending 02-12-1970 Ending 21-10-1978 Ending 04-09-1987 


12 Pis 24-02-1955 08-01-1964 Sco 02-12-1970 21-10-1978 
11. Aqu-— 21-11-1955 05-08-1964 i 30-07-1971 18-07-1979 
10 Cap 17-08-1956 03-03-1965 26-03-1972 13-04-1980 
Sag 14-05-1957 29-09-1965 21-11-1972 i 08-01-1981 
Sco 08-02-1958 27-04-1966 19-07-1973 i 05-10-1981 
i 05-11-1958 23-11-1966 16-03-1974 02-07-1982 
02-08-1959 21-06-1967 11-11-1974 29-03-1983 
28-04-1960 17-01-1968 09-07-1975 24-12-1983 
23-01-1961 14-08-1968 1 05-03-1976 19-09-1984 
20-10-1961 12-03-1969 31-10-1976 i 16-06-1985 
17-07-1962 08-10-1969 Cap 28-06-1977 i 13-03-1986 
13-04-1963 06-05-1970 Sag 23-02-1978 08-12-1986 


‘So 


m= NW UH ~1 


Cancer (7y) 32yrs_ Leo (8y) 39yrs_ +“ Virgo (9y) 47yrs_ Libra (7y) S6yrs 
Beginning 04-09-1987 Beginning 29-07-1994 Beginning 17-06-2002 Beginning 01-05-2011 
Ending 29-07-1994 Ending 17-06-2002 Ending 01-05-2011 Ending 25-03-2018 


10 Cap 04-09-1987 29-07-1994 12 Pis 17-06-2002 1 Ari 01-05-2011 
Sag 01-04-1988 26-03-1995 11 Aqu — 14-03-2003 Tau 27-11-2011 
Sco 28-10-1988 21-11-1995 10 Cap 09-12-2003 Gem = 24-06-2012 
i 26-05-1989 18-07-1996 Sag 04-09-2004 Can 20-01-2013 
22-12-1989 15-03-1997 Sco 01-06-2005 Leo 18-08-2013 
20-07-1990 10-11-1997 i 26-02-2006 Vir 16-03-2014 
15-02-1991 08-07-1998 23-11-2006 Lib 12-10-2014 
13-09-1991 05-03-1999 20-08-2007 Sco 10-05-2015 
10-04-1992 31-10-1999 16-05-2008 9 Sag 06-12-2015 
06-11-1992 27-06-2000 10-02-2009 10 Cap 03-07-2016 
04-06-1993 22-02-2001 07-11-2009 11 Aqu = 29-01-2017 
31-12-1993 20-10-2001 04-08-2010 12  Pis 27-08-2017 


— 
— 


‘eo 
-_ 


Se AINIAM EWN EN 
\o 


8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
2 
1 


= nNw UH ~1 


— 
—_ 


Scorpio (8y) 63yrs Sagittarius (9y) 70yrs Capricorn(7y) 79%yrs Aquarius (8y) 86yrs 
Beginning 25-03-2018 Beginning 11-02-2026 Beginning 26-12-2034 Beginning 19-11-2041 
Ending 11-02-2026 Ending 26-12-2034 Ending 19-11-2041 Ending 08-10-2049 


Sco 25-03-2018 9 Sag 11-02-2026 10 Cap 26-12-2034 11 Aqu 19-11-2041 
i 20-11-2018 10 Cap 08-11-2026 Sag 24-07-2035 12 Pis 17-07-2042 
18-07-2019 11 05-08-2027 Sco 19-02-2036 Ari 14-03-2043 
14-03-2020 12 Pi 01-05-2028 i 16-09-2036 09-11-2043 
09-11-2020 1 26-01-2029 14-04-2037 06-07-2044 
07-07-2021 23-10-2029 10-11-2037 03-03-2045 
04-03-2022 20-07-2030 08-06-2038 29-10-2045 
30-10-2022 16-04-2031 04-01-2039 26-06-2046 
27-06-2023 11-01-2032 02-08-2039 21-02-2047 
22-02-2024 07-10-2032 28-02-2040 19-10-2047 
19-10-2024 i 04-07-2033 25-09-2040 15-06-2048 
16-06-2025 31-03-2034 23-04-2041 10-02-2049 


\o 
— 


=a Ne NW DUH ~1 CO 
SCO MIAN DWN 


—_ 
—_ 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 51 


STEVE JOBS 


Sadhesati of Saturn 


According to Jyotish Tatva Prakash 


Bes TART weTt fetta a yA: 


Wai Bat salir aa e:eaa Va 


The seven and a half year period during which Saturn transits in the twelfth, first and second 
houses from the birth rashi (Moon sign) is called the Sadhesati of Saturn. 


Your birth rashi is Pisces therefore the period during which Saturn transits in 


Aquarius, Pisces and Aries is called Sadhesati of Saturn 


One Sadhesati is made up of three periods of approximately two and half years each, because 
Saturn travels in one rashi for two and half years. 


Normally in the lifetime of a person, the Sadhesati of Saturn occurs three times. 


The following table shows the beginning and end of each Sadhesati. 


Sadhesati Cycle 


First Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Second Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Third Cycle of Sadhesati 
First Dhayya 

(Twelfth from birth rashi) 
Second Dhayya 

(On birth rashi) 

Third Dhayya 

(Second from birth rashi) 


Transit 
of Saturn 


Aquarius 
Aquarius 
Pisces 
Pisces 
Aries 
Aries 


Aquarius 
Aquarius 
Pisces 
Pisces 
Aries 
Aries 


Aquarius 
Aquarius 
Pisces 
Pisces 
Aries 
Aries 


Beginning 
Date 


27-01-1964 
03-11-1966 


08-04-1966 
19-12-1966 


17-06-1968 
07-03-1969 


05-03-1993 
09-11-1993 


02-06-1995 
16-02-1996 


17-04-1998 


29-04-2022 
17-01-2023 
29-03-2025 
20-10-2027 
02-06-2027 
23-02-2028 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


Ending 
Date 


08-04-1966 
19-12-1966 


03-11-1966 
17-06-1968 


28-09-1968 
28-04-1971 


15-10-1993 
02-06-1995 


09-08-1995 
17-04-1998 


06-06-2000 


12-07-2022 
29-03-2025 
02-06-2027 
23-02-2028 
20-10-2027 
08-08-2029 


Duration 
Yr-Mn-Dy 


2-2-11 
0-1-16 
0-6-25 
1-5-28 
0-3-11 
2-1-21 


Ashtakavarga 
Saturn Sarva 


22 


24 


28 


HP3 «52 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn 


Transit of Saturn in fourth and eighth house from the Moon sign is called Laghu Kalyani Dhayya. 
HeAoh Wears a carga weary | 

Your birth rashi is Pisces. Therefore, in transit when Saturn is in Gemini — the fourth house, 

and in Libra — the eighth house from the Moon, this period is called the Laghu Kalyani Dhayya. 


Transit of Saturn in the fourth, seventh and tenth house from the Moon is called Kantaka Saturn. 
Your Moon sign is Pisces. Therefore, the period during which Saturn transits in Gemini, Virgo 
and Saggitarius is the period of Kantaka Saturn. 


The period of Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn are as follows — 


Transit Begining Ending Interval 
of Saturn date Date Yr-Mn-Dy 


Ashtakvarga 
Saturn Sarva. 


First cycle of Dhayya 

Kantaka Saturn in fourth house 
and Laghu Kalyani Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in 

seventh house 

Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in 
eighth house 

Kantaka Saturn in 


tenth house 


Gemini 
Gemini 
Virgo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Libra 


Saggitarius 
Saggitarius 


08-02-1958 
07-11-1958 


12-11-1955 


02-06-1958 
01-02-1961 


28 


24 


31 


27 


Second cycle of Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in fourth house 
and Laghu Kalyani Dhayya 


Kantaka Saturn in 
seventh house 

Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in 
eighth house 

Kantaka Saturn in 


tenth house 


Gemini 
Gemini 
Virgo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Libra 


Saggitarius 
Saggitarius 


10-06-1973 


03-11-1979 
27-07-1980 
06-10-1982 
31-05-1985 
16-12-1987 
20-06-1990 


23-07-1975 


14-03-1980 
06-10-1982 
21-12-1984 
16-09-1985 
20-03-1990 
14-12-1990 


Third cycle of Dhayya 
Kantaka Saturn in fourth house 
Laghu Kalyani Dhayya 

Kantaka Saturn in 
seventh house 

Laghu Kalyani Dhayya in 
eighth house 

Kantaka Saturn in 


tenth house 


Gemini 
Gemini 
Virgo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Libra 
Saggitarius 
Saggitarius 


23-07-2002 
07-04-2003 


09-09-2009 
16-05-2012 
15-11-2011 
04-08-2012 
26-01-2017 
26-10-2017 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


08-01-2003 
05-09-2004 


15-11-2011 
04-08-2012 
16-05-2012 
02-11-2014 
20-06-2017 
24-01-2020 


HP3 «53 


STEVE JOBS (3 Krishnamurti Paddhati - Chart 


Krishnamurti Paddhati 


24 February 1955 ¢ 19:15 hrs. * San Francisco, California, USA 
Planet R/C _ Sign Degree Nakshatra Pada RL NL SL 


Lagna Leo 29:09:26 Uttara Phalg. Su Su Ma 
Sun Aqu 12:36:47 Shatabhishak Sa Ra Me 
Moon Pis 14:36:45 Uttarabhadra Ju Sa 

Mars Ari 05:57:20 = Ashwini Ma Ke 
Mercury Cap 21:13:36  Shravana Sa 

Jupiter Gem 27:22:23 Punarvasu 
Venus Sag 28:02:13 Uttarashadha 
Saturn Lib 28:01:40 ~~ Vishakha 
Rahu Sag 10:16:30 Moola 

Ketu Gem 10:16:30  Ardra 
Uranus Can 01:00:00  Punarvasu 
Neptune Lib 04:54:59 Chitra 

Pluto Leo 02:11:17 | Magha 


BPRBRNRWHEWANABNE 


Ke Ve 


Birth Chart Cuspal Chart 


Ma Ke JuR 


Ra Gk 
Sa MeR Ve 


Bhava Details (Placidus System) 
House cusp Sign Degree Nakshatra Pada RL 


1.First 29:09:26 Uttara Phalg. 
2.Second i 25:06:32 Chitra 
3.Third 1 25:13:09 Vishakha 
4.Fourth 28:10:52 Jyeshtha 
5.Fifth 01:20:24 Uttarashadha 
6.Sixth 02:04:30 Dhanishta 
7.Seventh 29:09:26 Poorvabhadra 
8.Eighth 25:06:32  Revati 
9.Ninth i 25:13:09 Bharani 
10.Tenth 28:10:52  Mrigasira 
11.Eleventh 01:20:24 Punarvasu 
12.Twelfth 02:04:30 Magha 


Re BPN BWW WN BN Ke 


Parashara's Light - PE (c) GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 54 


STEVE JOBS (3 Krishnamurti Paddhati - Significators 


Krishnamurti Paddhati 


Significations of the Houses 


House Planets in nak. Occupants _— Planets in nak. Cusp sign lord 
of occupants of cusp sign lord 


. First Su 
. Second Me 


. Third Mo - 
. Fourth Su,Ke Ma 
Fifth Sa 
. Sixth Ve Sa 
. Seventh Me Sa 
. Eighth fe 
. Ninth Ma 
10. Tenth Ju,Sa,Ma,Ra We 
11. Eleventh Mo 
12. Twelfth Su 


Houses Signified by Planets 


Planet Planets as significators of houses 
Very strong Strong Normal Weak 
significator — significator significator — significator 


Sun 46 
Moon 3 
Mars 10 
Mercury 3 
Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Rahu 

Ketu 


Ruling Planets 


Day lord : Jupiter Fortuna : Lib 01:09:23 
Lagna lord : Sun Bal. of dasha > Saturn 2y 10m 19d 
Lagna Nak Lord : Sun KP Ayanamsha > -23:08:06 

Lagna Sub Lord : Mars 
Moon Rashi lord =: Jupiter 
Moon Nak. lord : Saturn 
Moon Sub lord : Rahu 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 55 


STEVE JOBS 


Completed : 1 year 
25 February 1956 01:25 hrs. 


Completed : 2 years 
24 February 1957 07:36 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #1 


Completed : 3 years 
24 February 1958 13:42 hrs. 


Ve Ke 


Ma Ke 


Ke Mo As 


Gk 


JuR Mo 


Ve 


Sa As 


Ra Gk Mun 


Ra Sa Mun JuR 


Sa Ma Mun JuR Ra 


23:25 
09:21 
20:18 


13:57. Ma 
12:30 Me 16:15 Sa 
03:18 Ju 02:05 Ra 
Mercury Mun Vir 29:03:23 


04:29 Ve 


Completed : 4 years 
24 February 1959 19:54 hrs. 


00:13 
20:25 


As 00:02 Ma 
Su 12:30 Me 24:05 Sa 


23:25 Ve 


Mo 17:50 Ju 06:12 Ra _ 00:09 


YL Jupiter Mun Lib 29:03:24 


Completed : 5 years 
25 February 1960 01:56 hrs. 


08:15 
01:12 


As 21:49 
Su 12:30 


21:53 Ve 
06:43. Sa 


Mo — 20:26 09:31 


YL Mars 


08:15 Ra 
Mun Sco 29:03:23 


Completed : 6 years 
24 February 1961 08:05 hrs. 


Ve Ke Ma 


Me Ke 


As Ve Gk Mo Ma 


Su Me 


Su 


MeR Su 
Ke Mun 


Ma Gk Ve 
Mo Mun 


Sa Ju 


Sa Mun Ju Gk Mo 


As Ra 


Ju Sa Ra 


07:35 
11:45 
20:11 


As 07:11 Ma 
Su 12:30 Me 21:46 Sa 
Mo 06:22 Ju 07:58 Ra 
YL Venus Mun Sag 29:03:24 


13:23 Ve 


12:29 
22:09 
01:22 


As 20:20 
Su 12:30 
Mo 24:50 
YL Sun 


08:24 Ve 
00:25 Sa 
05:58 Ra 
Cap 29:03:22 


26:07 
02:27 
12:55 


11:53 Ma 
12:30 Me 06:52 Sa 
08:19 Ju 03:04 Ra 
Saturn Mun Aqu 29:03:22 


08:39 Ve 


Completed : 7 years 
24 February 1962 14:24 hrs. 


Completed : 8 years 
24 February 1963 20:31 hrs. 


Completed : 9 years 
25 February 1964 02:43 hrs. 


Gk Mun 


Mun 


Ve Ju Mun 


Ju Su 
Ve 


Su Ju 
Mo 


Sa Ma 
Su 


Sa Me 
Ke Ma 


Ke Me 
Sa 


Me 


Mo 


Ve Gk As 


As Ke 


00:27 Ma 24:35 Ve 19:24 
12:30 Me 16:24 Sa 12:44 
11:07. Ju 00:02 Ra _ 24:34 


Saturn Mun Pis 29:03:24 


Completed : 10 years 
24 February 1965 08:54 hrs. 


28:15 
23:03 
05:51 


14:32 Ma 
12:30 Me 18:44 Sa 
27:38 Ju 27:30 Ra 
Satun Mun Ari 29:03:24 


14:26 Ve 


Completed : 11 years 
24 February 1966 15:01 hrs. 


23:52 
03:27 
16:29 


As 00:30 
Su 12:30 
Mo 16:13 
YL Jupiter 


10:42 Ve 
29:01 Sa 
26:00 Ra 
Tau 29:03:24 


Completed : 12 years 
24 February 1967 21:13 hrs. 


As Ju Ra Gk Mun 


Ra Gk 
Mo Ju 


Sa Ve Ra 


Su MeR 


Ke Mo MaR 


Ke 


Ma Ke As 


00:51 
14:01 
26:30 


01:43. Ma 
12:30 Me _ 13:00 Sa 
28:34 Ju 26:01 Ra 
Saturn Mun Gem 29:03:25 


00:06 Ve 


06:27 
24:46 
05:34 


Ma 26:48 Ve 
Me 27:29 Sa 
Ju 28:01 —-Ra 
Mun Can 29:03:24 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


08:11 
05:48 
15:32 


09:01 Ve 

25:04 Sa 

01:57. Ra 
Mun Leo 29:03:25 


HP3 * 56 


STEVE JOBS 


Completed : 13 years 
25 February 1968 03:17 hrs. 


Completed : 14 years 
24 February 1969 09:24 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #2 


Completed : 15 years 
24 February 1970 15:38 hrs. 


Ma Sa 
R: 


Re e As Mo 


Sa 


Su 


JuR 


Me 


Gk Ke Mun 


Mun Ke JuR 


Mun JuR 


08:10 Ma 
12:30 Me 24:09 Sa 
08:06 Ju 06:48 Ra 
Sun Mun Vir 29:03:24 


13:04 
17:09 
26:09 


12:57 Ve 


Completed : 16 years 
24 February 1971 21:39 hrs. 


06:19 Ve 
12:30 15:49 Sa 


25:22 
28:52 


12:54 


18:23 10:44. Ra 
Sun Lib 29:03:23 


07:07 


Completed : 17 years 
25 February 1972 03:48 hrs. 


15:29 29:18 Ve 


12:30 22:31 Sa 


20:02 
11:00 


23:04 12:29 Ra 
Mars Mun Sco 29:03:24 


18:21 


Completed : 18 years 
24 February 1973 10:01 hrs. 


Sa 


Ve Ma Sa Mo 


Me Gk As Sa Ke 


Su Me Ke 


Ve Su 
Mun 


Gk Ke 


Ra Mun 


Ju 


Ve Mun) Ju Ma As 


Ju Gk 
As 


Ma Ra 


28:36 
23:36 
00:11 


As 28:30 Ma 
Su 12:30 Me 04:37 Sa 
Mo 10:03 Ju 11:56 Ra 
YL Venus Mun Sag 29:03:23 


27:14 Ve 


As 15:32 Ma 
Su 12:30 Me 19:30 Sa 


16:22. Ve 24:17 


06:41 


Mo 29:45 Ju 09:46 Ra 
YL Jupiter Mun Cap 29:03:23 


11:33 


As 25:21 
Su 12:30 


13:15 “Ve 
00:32 Sa 


01:28 
20:15 


Mo 08:22 
YL Mars 


06:48 Ra 
Mun Aqu 29:03:23 


21:57 


Completed : 19 years 
24 February 1974 16:13 hrs. 


Completed : 20 years 
24 February 1975 22:28 hrs. 


Completed : 21 years 
25 February 1976 04:36 hrs. 


Mo Mun Ma Ke SaR 


Ju Ve Mun Ke SaR 


Ju Ke Ma Mun 


As Gk 


Ju MeR 
Su 


Su 


Su 


Mo 


Ve Me 


Ra As Gk 


Mo As Ra Gk 


22:24 Ma 05:10 Ve 
12:30 Me 12:11 Sa 
14:26 Ju 03:47. Ra 
Moon Mun Pis 29:03:24 


04:50 
04:17 
02:09 


Completed : 22 years 
24 February 1977 10:43 hrs. 


08:22 Ma 02:00 Ve 08:46 
12:30 Me 17:29 Sa 18:41 
01:16 Ju 01:20 Ra 12:03 
Sun Mun Ari 29:03:25 


Completed : 23 years 
24 February 1978 16:56 hrs. 


As 27:54 
Su 12:30 
Mo 21:28 
YL Jupiter 


27:52. Ve 
17:41 Sa 
00:00 Ra 
Tau 29:03:25 


13:38 
03:22 
21:55 


Completed : 24 years 
24 February 1979 23:01 hrs. 


Ve Ke Mo J we Mun 


Ke Gk Ju MaR 


Su SaR 


ee Mun 


As SaR 


Ra 


Mo Ra 


As 


Ma 18:17 Ve 24:31 
Me 27:12 Sa _ 18:09 
Ju -00:16-S Ras 01:56 
Mun Gem 29:03:24 


28:54 Ve 20:40 
02:52 


12:28 


As 01:02 Ma 
Su 12:30 Me 10:44 Sa 
Mo 05:50 Ju 02:33 Ra 
YL ~~ Jupiter Mun Can 29:03:25 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


04:24 Ve 

25:38 Sa 

06:44 Ra 
Mun Leo 29:03:24 


28:58 
17:20 
23:54 


HP3 * 57 


STEVE JOBS 


Completed : 25 years 
25 February 1980 05:08 hrs. 


Completed : 26 years 
24 February 1981 11:20 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #3 


Completed : 27 years 
24 February 1982 17:28 hrs. 


Mo 


As Gk 


Gk Ra 


Ra 


Ra JuR 
MaR 


As 


Gk |SaR Mun 


Mo Mun) SaR JuR 


JuR  |MaR SaRI| 


07:03 Ma 
12:30 Me 27:54 Sa 
13:05 Ju 11:36 Ra 
Satun Mun Vir 29:03:24 


12:04 Ve 24:42 
01:25 


05:42 


Completed : 28 years 
24 February 1983 23:35 hrs. 


18:40 Ma 20:30 Ve 02:06 


12:30 Me 28:00 Sa _ 15:01 


18:00 Ju 15:19 Ra 16:59 
Venus Mun Lib 29:03:25 


Completed : 29 years 
25 February 1984 05:41 hrs. 


07:24 25:27 Ve 


12:30 15:40 Sa 


03:25 
28:06 


26:56 16:43. Ra 
Sun Mun Sco 29:03:24 


28:03 


Completed : 30 years 
24 February 1985 11:49 hrs. 


Ma Ve Ra 


Ra 


Ma Ve | Mo Ra As 


Su Mo 


Me Su 


Su Me 
Mun 


Me 


Ve As 
Mun 


Ju 


Ke Gk Tu 


Mun SaR As 


Mo Ju | Ke Gk | SaR Ma 


Sa Ke 


As 21:46 Ma 
Su 12:30 Me 21:04 Sa 
Mo 13:44 Ju 15:52. Ra 
YL — Saturn Mun Sag 29:03:24 


06:36 Ve 09:21 
10:40 


08:35 


As 17:24 Ma 
Su 12:30 Me 02:34 Sa 


26:43 Ve 14:13 


22:45 


Mo 04:13 Ju 13:29 Ra 
YL — Saturn Mun Cap 29:03:23 


18:26 


26:09 Ma 
12:30 Me 17:12 Sa 


22:51 Ve 23:32 


04:22 


08:00 Ju 10:25 Ra 
Saturn Mun Aqu 29:03:23 


27:25 


Completed : 31 years 
24 February 1986 18:07 hrs. 


Completed : 32 years 
25 February 1987 00:17 hrs. 


Completed : 33 years 
25 February 1988 06:24 hrs. 


Mun Ra 


JuRa |Ma Mun 


Ve Ju Mo Mun 


Ju Su 
Ve Me 


Su MeR 


As Su 
Ra 


Mo Gk 


Gk Me 


Sa Ma Ke Gk 


As Sa Ke 


Sa Ma 


15:10 Ma 
12:30 Me 29:56 Sa 
18:22. Ju 07:23 Ra 
Sun Mun Pis 29:03:25 


19:33, Ve 21:17 
15:37 


07:39 


Completed : 34 years 
24 February 1989 12:37 hrs. 


00:03 Ma 
12:30 Me 17:20 Sa 
05:47. Ju 05:02. Ra 
Saturn Mun Ari 29:03:25 


09:35 Ve 29:20 
26:32 


18:20 


Completed : 35 years 
24 February 1990 18:46 hrs. 


As 02:13 
Su 12:30 


08:26 Ve 
19:10 Sa 


25:07 
07:12 


Mo — 25:08 
YL ‘Jupiter 


03:53. Ra 
Tau 29:03:24 


29:32 


Completed : 36 years 
25 February 1991 00:54 hrs. 


Gk Ma Ju As Mun 


Ve Ma 


Ke 


Mo 


Gk 


Gk 


Ma 27:31 Ve 
Me 16:49 Sa 
Ju 04:27. Ra 
Mun Gem 29:03:25 


02:44 
17:40 
11:09 


Ma 25:33 Ve 
Me 25:28 Sa 
Ju 07:05 Ra 
Mun Can 29:03:25 


02:10 
28:01 
22:45 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


18:20 Ve 
08:31 Sa 
11:31 Ra 
Leo 29:03:25 


09:57 
08:19 
03:48 


HP3 « 58 


STEVE JOBS 


Completed : 37 years 
25 February 1992 07:02 hrs. 


Completed : 38 years 
24 February 1993 13:09 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #4 


Completed : 39 years 
24 February 1994 19:20 hrs. 


Ke Gk 


Gk As 
Mo Ve Ke Ma 


Ke 


Su Me 


JuR 


Sa 


Mo Mun 


Ra Mun JuR 


Ra Mun Ju 


As 16:45 Ma 11:56 Ve 14:47 
Su 12:30 Me 23:35 Sa _ 18:37 
Mo 15:52) Ju 16:22 Ra 14:19 
YL Jupiter Mun Vir 29:03:25 


Completed : 40 years 
25 February 1995 01:25 hrs. 


14:34 Ma 15:27 Ve 22:24 
12:30 Me 29:41 Sa _ 28:59 


18:46 Ju 19:48 Ra 23:54 
Sun Mun Lib 29:03:24 


Completed : 41 years 
25 February 1996 07:30 hrs. 


00:04 28:06 Ve 21:55 
12:30 02:35 Sa 09:28 
00:05 20:51 Ra 03:49 
Mars Mun Sco 29:03:25 


Completed : 42 years 
24 February 1997 13:44 hrs. 


Ke 


Sa Ke 
Ve Mo 


Ke Sa As 


Su Ma 
As 


Me Ve 
Su Mun Gk 


Me Mun 


Ju 


Mo Mun! As Ju 
Ve Gk Ra 


Ju Ra 


Ra Mo 
MaR 


As 13:49 Ma 24:06 Ve 29:44 
Su 12:30 Me 15:54 Sa _ 20:09 
Mo 19:53 Ju 19:43 Ra 13:54 
YL Jupiter Mun Sag 29:03:24 


As 28:00 Ma 14:13 Ve 25:30 
Su 12:30 Me 19:45 Sa _ 01:04 


Mo 05:49 Jue 17:11) Ra 24:11 
YL ‘Jupiter Mun Cap 29:03:23 


22:03 09:49 Ve 03:21 
12:30 00:36 Sa 12:17 
09:20 14:05 Ra 04:55 
Saturn Mun Aqu 29:03:24 


Completed : 43 years 
24 February 1998 20:00 hrs. 


Completed : 44 years 
25 February 1999 02:11 hrs. 


Completed : 45 years 
25 February 2000 08:20 hrs. 


Ma Sa 
Mun 


Ju Ve | SaMun Mo 


Ma As as Mun 


Ju Su 
Me Ke 


Su Me Ra 


Su MeR 


Ve Mo Ra 


Gk Ke 


Ke Ve 


Gk As 


As Ma 


Mo 


08:10 Ma 00:19 Ve 01:04 
12:30 Me 14:54 Sa 23:51 
21:01 Ju 11:08 Ra 16:42 
Venus Mun Pis 29:03:25 


Completed : 46 years 
24 February 2001 14:27 hrs. 


23:26 Ma 15:52 Ve 10:32 
12:30 Me 28:46 Sa _ 05:48 
12:31 Ju 08:56 Ra 28:15 
Venus Mun Ari 29:03:26 


Completed : 47 years 
24 February 2002 20:37 hrs. 


18:19 16:29 Ve 15:22 
12:30 21:55 Sa 18:12 
26:06 08:00 Ra 09:19 
Venus Tau 29:03:26 


Completed : 48 years 
25 February 2003 02:44 hrs. 


Me bk SaJu | Ra Mun 


Ma Sa Ra JuR 


Ra Sa 


Su As 


Mo Mun 


Ma 


Gk As 


Gk 


Ma 11:18 Ve 21:06 
Me 21:34 Sa _ 01:04 
Ju 08:51 =Ra_ 20:19 
Mun Gem 29:03:25 


02:58 Ve 22:33 
16:10 Sa 14:25 
11:46 Ra 00:29 
Can 29:03:25 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


01:21 Ve 00:08 

23:49 Sa 28:14 

16:19 Ra 10:09 
Mun Leo 29:03:25 


HP3 « 59 


STEVE JOBS 


Completed : 49 years 
25 February 2004 08:51 hrs. 


Completed : 50 years 
24 February 2005 15:01 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #5 


Completed : 51 years 
24 February 2006 21:13 hrs. 


Ve As Mo 


Ra Ma Gk SaR 


Ra Gk 


Me Ra Ma 


Me 


Su 


JuR 


Ke Mun 


Mun JuR Ke 


Gk Mun Ju Ke As 


00:46 Ma 20:18 Ve 25:53 
12:30 Me 06:22 Sa _ 12:29 
15:55 Ju 21:01 Ra 19:37 
Mars Mun Vir 29:03:25 


Completed : 52 years 
25 February 2007 03:18 hrs. 


07:53 Ma 18:59 Ve 03:59 
12:30 Me 21:24 Sa _ 27:02 


21:02 Ju 24:07 Ra 29:39 
Venus Mun Lib 29:03:25 


Completed : 53 years 
25 February 2008 09:25 hrs. 


23:04 09:43 Ve 00:07 
12:30 00:30 Sa 11:46 
02:57 24:49 Ra_ 10:40 
Mars Sco 29:03:25 


Completed : 54 years 
24 February 2009 15:37 hrs. 


Mo 


As Ma 


Ve Gk 


Gk 


As Mun| Gk Ju 


Mo 


As 08:15 Ma 05:35 Ve 11:06 
Su 12:30 Me 07:44 Sa _ 26:30 
Mo 26:52 Ju 23:28 Ra 22:14 
YL ~~ Venus Mun Sag 29:03:24 


13:22 Ma 03:47 Ve 15:57 
12:30 Me 16:33 Sa 11:04 


05:41 Ju 20:51 Ra 03:42 
Saturn Mun Cap 29:03:24 


15:06 21:48 Ve 19:39 
12:30 18:34 Sa 25:19 
11:34 17:47, Ra 15:12 
Venus Aqu 29:03:25 


Completed : 55 years 
24 February 2010 21:51 hrs. 


Completed : 56 years 
25 February 2011 04:02 hrs. 


Completed : 57 years 
25 February 2012 10:09 hrs. 


Mun Mo Ke 


Ju Mun Ke 


Ke Mun 


hae Ju As 


MaR 


Me 


Su Me 


Ve 


As SaR 


Ra Gk 
‘As SaR 


SaR 


00:39 Ma 07:26 Ve 23:10 
12:30 Me 28:43 Sa 09:07 
24:09 Ju 14:57 Ra 26:11 
Venus Mun Pis 29:03:25 


Completed : 58 years 
24 February 2013 16:18 hrs. 


As 19:09 07:55 Ve 00:33 
Su 12:30 12:37. Sa = 22:25 


Mo 18:58 12:56 Ra 06:23 
YL __ Jupiter Ari 29:03:26 


Completed : 59 years 
24 February 2014 22:32 hrs. 


28:21 22:22 Ve 26:14 
12:30 27:11 Sa 05:11 
25:52 12:14 Ra 15:40 
Saturn Tau 29:03:26 


Completed : 60 years 
25 February 2015 04:37 hrs. 


Ke Ju 


Ke JuR 


Ma Ve 
Ke Mo 


Su Mun 


Su JuR 


MeR 


Me Mun 


SaR Ra 


Ma Ra Gk 


Mo Ve ‘As Sa 


As Gk Ra 


24:02 Ve 04:36 
25:36 Sa 17:26 
13:21 Ra 25:45 
Gem 29:03:26 


As 08:57 03:21 Ve 29:17 
Su 12:30 24:44 Sa 29:14 
Mo 16:00 16:31 Ra 05:49 
YL Jupiter Can 29:03:26 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


10:10 Ve 11:41 
15:46 Sa 10:36 
21:10 Ra 16:27 
Leo 29:03:26 


HP3 « 60 


STEVE JOBS 


Completed : 61 years 
25 February 2016 10:44 hrs. 


Completed : 62 years 
24 February 2017 16:55 hrs. 


Varshaphala Charts #6 


Completed : 63 years 
24 February 2018 23:01 hrs. 


As Gk 


Ve Ma Gk 


Me Ke 
Su 


JuR Ra 


Mo As Ra 


Ma Sa Mo Mun 


Sa Mun JuR 


Gk Ma 


Mun As Ju 


02:15 Ve 16:33 
12:30 Me 22:17 Sa 21:38 
15:52) Ju 25:43, Ra 27:40 
Venus Mun Vir 29:03:25 


08:52 Ma 


Completed : 64 years 
25 February 2019 05:08 hrs. 


18:00 
02:23 
09:18 


00:37 Ma 26:27 Ve 
12:30 Me 04:17. Sa 
22:55 Ju 28:29 Ra 


Sun Mun Lib 29:03:25 


Completed : 65 years 
25 February 2020 11:14 hrs. 


23:56 Ve 23:48 

19:07 Sa 12:55 

28:53 Ra 20:42 
Mun Sco 29:03:25 


14:44 
12:30 
08:14 
Venus 


Completed : 66 years 
24 February 2021 17:26 hrs. 


Me Ma 


Mo Ve As Ra Gk 


Ma Ra 


Su 


Su MeR 


Ve Ke 
As 


Sa Mun 


Sa Mun | Mo Ju Gk 


Ke Ma 
Ju 


As 07:17 Ma 13:21 Ve 00:58 


As 17:11 Ma 12:17 Ve 


26:35 


Su 12:30 
Mo 01:26 
YL Mars 


Me 00:28 Sa 
Jue 27:20 —~—Ra 
Mun Sag 29:03:25 


23:18 
01:51 


Su 12:30 


Mo 06:05 


YL Saturn 


Me 13:04 Sa 03:36 
Jue 24:37, Ra 12:16 
Mun Cap 29:03:24 


06:55 01:46 Ve 05:14 
12:30 17:43, Sa = 13:53 
13:06 21:33 Ra 22:20 
Sun Mun Aqu 29:03:24 


Completed : 67 years 


Completed : 68 years 


24 February 2022 23:46 hrs. 


25 February 2023 05:54 hrs. 


Completed : 69 years 
25 February 2024 12:02 hrs. 


Ra Mo 


Ve Ju Mun Ma Ra Ju Mun As 


Mun Ra 


Sa Su 


Me Su 
Su Ju Sa 


Me Sa As Me Ma Ve 


Mo Gk 

Ve Ma Ke As Gk Ke 
As 23:43 Ma 29:10 Ve 
Su 12:30 Me 17:32 Sa 24:12 
Mo 00:40 Ju 18:48 Ra 01:59 
YL Saturn Mun Pis 29:03:27 Mars 


15:30 Ve 17:08 
10:22. Sa 15:12 
21:50 


21:57 Ma 23:35 Ve 12:16 29:10 
12:30 Me 26:55 Sa 04:37 12:30 
22:03 Ju 16:55 Ra 11:41 26:44 16:25 Ra 

Mun Ari 29:03:26 Saturn Tau 29:03:26 


28:33 


Completed : 72 years 
25 February 2027 06:28 hrs. 


Completed : 71 years 
25 February 2026 00:20 hrs. 


Completed : 70 years 
24 February 2025 18:14 hrs. 


Ra Ve Ju Ma Mun Sa Mo JuR 


au Me Mun 


Mo As Ke 


Ke Gk As Mo 


01:38 Ve 24:26 04:11 Ve 01:24 
Me 25:19 Sa _ 26:00 Me 28:16 Sa _ 07:04 28:42. Sa 18:27 
Ju 17:46 Ra _ 03:19 Ju 21:10 Ra 14:45 25:55 Ra 26:11 
Mun Gem 29:03:27 Mun Can 29:03:26 Mun Leo 29:03:26 


Ma 22:48 Ve _ 16:08 Ma 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 61 


STEVE JOBS (3 


~ Vedic Astrology ~ 
The Vedas are the foremost among all ancient books. All the classics of the world have been born out of 
the Vedas. The root verb of the word ‘Veda’ is ‘vid’ meaning knowledge. Through the classics of Indian 
astrology, one can easily acquire knowledge about God while learning about living beings. For this 
reason, astrology is considered to be the eyes of the Vedas. Thousands of years ago, the Saints who were 
knowledgeable about the past, the present and the future, through the power of their meditation and 
yoga, have described in detail in their astrological classics the characteristics, features, appearance and 
nature of the planets and their auspicious and inauspicious effects on the living and non living world. 
The depiction of the position of planets in the zodiac at the time and place of a person’s birth is called 
the Janma Kundali or the Horoscope. The sign which was rising in the eastern horizon at the time of 
birth is called Lagna or the Ascendant. The sign where the Moon is positioned is called the Birth Rashi 
and the constellation in which the Moon is situated is called the Birth Nakshatra. A description of the 
different parts of the Panchanga or the Hindu calendar at the time of your birth are given below: 


Avakhada Chakra 


Lagna : Leo 

Rashi (Moon Sign) : Pisces 

Rashi lord : Jupiter 

Birth Nakshatra : Uttarabhadra 

Nakshatra Charana : 4 

First alphabet of name : Jya 

Rashi paya : Iron 

Nakshatra paya : Copper 

Varana : Brahmin 

Vashya : Jalachara 

Nadi : Madhya 

Yoni ‘ Gau 

Gana : Manushya 
Indian Calendar 


Vikram Samvat 5 2011 

Lunar Month ; Phalguna 
Birth Tithi : Shukla Tritiya 
Yoga : Shubha 
Karana : Gara 

Western Weekday : Thursday 
Astrological weekday : Thursday 


Ghat Chakra 


Ghat Month : Phalguna Ghat Yoga : Vajra 

Ghat Tithi : 5/10/15 Ghat Karana : Chatushpada 
Ghat Day : Friday Ghat Prahar : 4 

Ghat Nakshatra : Ashlesha Ghat Chandra : Kumbha 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 62 


STEVE JOBS 


~ Nature and Temperament ~ 


1 - Lord of Leo is the Sun, known as the king of the planetary cycle and therefore a person born 
under this sign will have kingly traits. 

2 - The Sun represents decorum and immensity in size, therefore the person will perform 
everything with decorum and in a very large scale. 

3 - He will be frank, clean at heart and liberal. 

4 - He will generally be liberal and generous, occasionally however he may be narrow minded. 

5 - He will have natural qualities of leadership and organizing. 

6 - He will be ambitious and will have an acute aim in life to keep progressing. 

7 - His style of living will be of modest and good standards. He will always wish to be the center 
of attraction. 

8 - He will love freedom but not impertinence. 

9 - He will have the amazing power of forgiveness and forgetting in spite of being extremely 
enraged. 

10 - He will be fearless, extremely bold and aggressive but will fight for a just cause. 

11 - He will not like to be subordinated. 

12 - He will have the power to accomplish all work undertaken with faith and devotion. However, 
occasionally he may undergo spells of lethargy and leave his work altogether. 

13 - He will be peace loving and will try to live happily in every situation. 

14 - He will be pious, charitable, energetic and self-respecting. 

15 - He may have drawbacks like arrogance, self-praise, a soft corner for sucker ups, a desire to 
impress everyone, an interest in self-exhibition and a prejudiced outlook. 


ws 


Your main Sentence 
I shall do. 


Your biggest Talent 
Immenseness. 


Your biggest Weakness 
Arrogance. 


Your Ambition 
Social status. 


HP3 * 63 


STEVE JOBS 


According tethe Shastras 

The lord of Pisces Rashi is Jupiter, a person born in Pisces will have mediocre height, beautiful 
physique, high nose, broad forehead, beautiful eyes, will be placid and handsome. He will be 
respected, polite and with a pleasant nature, devoted to God and parents, religious minded, devoted 
to his teachers, knowledgeable in Shastras, will have a good character, will be liberal and serious, a 
good orator, a scholar, talented, favorite in his family, loved by friends, will be honest, a dreamer, 
earns his living through mining and water products like pearl etc., will enjoy other's wealth, will be 
fond of good clothes, will be pious, clever in defeating enemies, interested in singing, a 
government servant, hot tempered, fond of sea journeys and will be charitable. He will be fond of 
women, influenced by them, vanquished by them, get physically involved with women, and will be 
having four love affairs. 


According to the Modern Viewpoint 


A person born under Pisces Rashi will be of mediocre height, will have a wide face, prominent 
ear bone, beautiful physique and attractive eyes and hair. Lord of Pisces is Jupiter, therefore, the 
person will be respectful, religious minded, interested in occult sciences and interested in the 
research of the unknown and supernatural powers. He will be independent minded, respectful 
towards his teachers and will be hospitable to guests. He will be thoughtful about self-benefit as 
well as benefit to others. He will be basically an idealistic person but he will stay far away from 
worldly activities and will lose himself in his dreams. He will have a developed power of 
imagination but he will not be successful in materializing it. He will be very sensitive and very 
impressionable and easily influenced by others. He enjoys water, will be fond of bathing and will 
be fond of sea journeys, and will be happy to live in places close to the water. He will be easily 
affected by beauty and will be sensitive and romantic in matters of love. He will be desirous to live 
a happy and luxurious life. He will be unable to control his expenditure. He will waste valuable 
time in deciding between resolution — dis-resolution, decision — indecision, asserting and not 
asserting, what is to be done and what is not to be done. He will display disbelief in many matters 
inspite of being capable, energetic and having a clear memory. He will be hopeful, polite, having 
good friends of flexible temperament and very dependent on friends. He will perform surprising 
and amazing deeds. He will be keen on fame and wealth. 


Physical Characteristics 
1. The structure of the face will be broad and healthy. 


2. The bend of the eyebrows and the shape of the forehead will resemble that of a lion. 

3. His walk will be as fearless and as balanced as a lion and his physique will be well built. 
4. His eyes will be beautiful and expressive. 

5. He will have strong bones, broad shoulders and a wide forehead. 


HP3 + 64 


STEVE JOBS 


~ Useful Information ~ 


Your main Sentence 
I shall do. 


Your biggest Talent 
Immenseness. 


Your biggest Weakness 
Arrogance. 


Your Ambition 
Social status. 
wc 
Lucky Day 
Sunday. 


Lucky Colour 
Yellow, Orange, Golden is lucky. Blue and White are not lucky. 


Lucky Number 
1,4,5,9,6 are very lucky. 2,3,8 are not lucky. 


Lucky Stone 
Ruby, Yellow Topaz and Emerald. 


Lucky Upratna 
Red Turmali. 


Inauspicious Month and Dates 
December of every month, 3-7-12-18-28 of every month and black clothes is not lucky. 


Inauspicious Tithi 
Panchami, Dashmi and Purnima. 


Auspicious Rashi 
Aries, Leo, Cancer and Sagittarius are lucky. Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, Libra and Aquarius are not lucky. 


Inauspicious Day 
Wednesday is unlucky whereas Thursday is lucky. 


Inauspicious Period 
Ashwini month, Krishna paksha, Dwitiya tithi, Thursday, Krittika Nakshatra and 
evening time will be inauspicious for the person. 


HP3 * 65 


STEVE JOBS (3 Consideration of Mangala Dosha 


Consideration of Mangala Dosha 


. According to Agastya Samhita — 


at a OT Uae Tay ay | 
arat ag fare siya eat ATEN 


. According to Maanasagari — 


at SY OT Uae Say ay |aA 
aan wifes ad: ae ferrari 


. According to Brihat Jyotishasara — 
aM Se Ags a MA aT sey Sat: 
Tay ATTA wat sats faaryaci 
. According to Bhava Deepika — 


A Sl OT Wael St aTEA aa 
war ag ferret: ae Tat arat fearvater 
. According to Brihat Parashara Hora — 
ae aa GES ait May at set Aa 
Ua Sl art é a ofa ea a ATTA 
Mangala Dosha or Kuja Dosha occurs when Mars is placed in the first, second, fourth, 
seventh, eighth or twelfth house from the Birth Lagna. 


According to some ancient rishis, Mangala dosha also occurs when Mars is placed in the first, 
second, fourth, seventh, eighth or twelfth house from the Moon, Venus and the seventh lord. 


According to classics — 


wT YRS SI aaher fafa ava 

TqaR aT aa SrraTea Afar: 11 
When Mars is placed in a malefic house from the Lagna, Moon or Venus then the 
dasha of Mars may give inauspicious results according to sages. 


In general practice Mangala Dosha is considered from the Lagna and the Moon. 


STEVE JOBS : In the birth chart of STEVE JOBS Mars is placed in the ninth house from 
the lagna while in the Moon chart Mars is placed in second house from the Moon. Hence 
STEVE JOBS is not Mangalik from the Birth Chart but Chandra Mangalik from the 


Moon Chart. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 66 


STEVE JOBS (3 Results of Mangala Dosha 


Results of Mangala Dosha 


Mangala Dosha effects the married life of a person in many ways — it creates delays, cheating, 
hurdles and obstacles in getting married. After marriage, there is physical, mental or financial hardship 
for one of the partners or both the partners. It causes mutual disputes, allegations and counter allegations 
and may even lead to disintegration of marriage. If the Dosha is pronounced, one of the partners may 
remain ill or there may be untimely death of either one or both the partners. 

Inspite of this, one should not be scared of Mangala Dosha. Efforts should be made for a person 
having Mangala dosha to marry another person with Mangala dosha, because when the dosha is similar, 
it gets nullified and the couple leads a happy married life. 


Cae Sega AAT AA | AAedsed Yoel wala ger afagat gala 
TATA cut del-aren 1 slaataedt A safer uefa wets: 1 


In the horoscope of both the bride and the groom, if Mars is placed in the eon fourth, seventh, 
eighth or twelfth house from the Lagna, Moon or Venus, then due to equality, Mangala dosha is 
nullified. One attains mutual happiness, wealth, children, health and friends. 


ae ae act tar qardtvad fener | afer det a nfs curt Qaeda 


If a girl having Mangala dosha is married to a boy with Mangala dosha, the dosha is cancelled and 
there will be mutual happiness. 


Remedies to Repel Mangala Dosha 
To ward off the effects of Mangala Dosha following are recommended — 


* One should fast on Tuesdays (sunrise to next day sunrise). During the day, consume liquids without 

salt like tea, coffee, milk, fruit juice and curd. In the evening, draw a triangle with red kumkum (roli) on 
a plate and worship with Panchopachara [red sandalwood, red flowers, incense (dhoop), lighted lamp and 
food consecrated to a deity]. Thereafter, only before sunset, one may consume wheat bread, ghee and 
jaggery (unrefined cane sugar). 

° If the Mangalik Dosha is pronounced, then the Mangala Chandika Strotra should be recited daily for 21 
times for 108 consecutive days. In the morning hours, one should sit facing the eastern direction, light a 
five stroked lamp and worship one's deity (Ishta) and the planet Mars(Mangala) with Panchopachara and 
then recite the following — 


W W Weds ANeasa | sikea faaat wet elas 1 
BTN A alaTeaas 1 YY UT a YY Wrerafsa 
Wiel Wee A AAAS | Mel UN Ata Bde AN I 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 67 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Result of Sadhesati 
Since ancient times, there has been a general belief among the masses that the Sadhesati of Saturn is 
usually painful and problematic from the mental, physical and financial point of view. The moment 
people hear about Sadhesati of Saturn, they get worried and fearful. During the Sadhesati of Saturn the 
person may experience laziness, mental stress, disputes, problems due to ailments and enemies, losses 
due to theft and fire and death of elders in the family might occur. 


Classics describe the results of Sadhesati in the following words — 
ara wey aeafa taga wet ue t ane cgfataesrmd septa fornia 
Tet gevrettarecs ural facta vialarecrerentishe ost gar Ue USAT 
GA: eno faced ahet a MMU Waheafeaaet Weed Garey awa i 
In other words, when Saturn in transit is in the fourth or eighth house from the Moon sign, it is a 
period for illness, quarrels with brothers, foreign stay, hardships and anxiety. During Sadhesati, Saturn 
in the first or second house causes ailments related to the head, heart and legs, fear from the wicked 
and hardships for sons and cattle. 
In general experience it is not seen that the entire period of seven and half years is painful. In fact, 
during Sadhesati, some auspicious events may still occur like, marriage, birth of children, promotion at 
work, business, victory in election and foreign travel. 


Results of First Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (27-01-1964 to 28-04-1971) 
The first cycle of Sadhesati of Saturn is extremely intense and during this period you may 
experience physical pain. There would be obstacles and hardships of various kinds. During this 


period of Sadhesati, there may also be some troubles to your parents. 


Results of Second Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (05-03-1993 to 06-06-2000) 
In the second cycle of Sadhesati, Saturn exerts mediocre influence compared to first cycle. 
During this period you succeed through physical struggle and labour. Despite mental unrest, your 
worldly progress continues. You may suffer separation or loss of parents or other elders in the 
family. 


Results of Third Cycle of Sadhesati — 
From (29-04-2022 to 08-08-2029) 
In the third cycle of Sadhesati, Saturn inflicts extremely harsh results. During this period you 
may face tremendous physical hardships. There will be illness and even fear of death. During this 
period only fortunate persons survive. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 68 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Results of the Dhayya of Sadhesati 


It has been generally seen that out of the three Dhayyas of Sadhesati, one gives 
auspicious results. This can be decided according to the number of auspicious lines found 
in the Ashtaka and Sarvashtaka Varga of Saturn. Saturn gives mixed results when Saturn 
has 4 points in the Ashtakavarga and 28 points in the Sarvashtaka Varga. If the points 
exceed this number the results are auspicious and if they fall below this number they are 
inauspicious. If in the birth horoscope, Saturn is strong (exalted or placed in own rashi) or 
it is a Yogakaraka or it is the lord of the Rashi then the bad effects for the person are 
comparatively lesser than for others. 


Results during First Dhayya of Sadhesati — 
First Cycle from 27-01-1964 to 08-04-1966 and from 03-11-1966 to 19-12-1966 
Second Cycle from 05-03-1993 to 15-10-1993 and from 09-11-1993 to 02-06-1995 
Third Cycle from 29-04-2022 to 12-07-2022 and from 17-01-2023 to 29-03-2025 


During this period Saturn transits in the twelfth house from Moon sign and has its full 
aspect on the second, sixth and ninth house. During the first dhayya, Saturn resides on the 
head. There would be fall in mental and physical happiness. There is a possibility of eye 
ailments or weakness of vision and use of spectacles. There may be sudden financial 
losses. There may be unwanted and extra expenditure. You may face financial problems. 
The expenditure will exceed the income. There may be a separation from the family. 


Domestic unrest may prevail. Father may suffer ailments. The relations with your father 
might get tense and fortune might decline a little. Work may be delayed or problems may 
arise. Efforts do not yield results. People are unhelpful and government officials may give 
trouble. Your interest in spiritualism increases. There may be fear of an accident. You may 
wander uselessly. You may also travel to distant places which may cause hardships. This 
position of Saturn is eighth from the fifth house, therefore is inauspicious for children. 


Results during Second Dhayya of Sadhesati — 
First Cycle from 08-04-1966 to 03-11-1966 and from 19-12-1966 to 17-06-1968 
Second Cycle from 02-06-1995 to 09-08-1995 and from 16-02-1996 to 17-04-1998 
Third Cycle from 29-03-2025 to 02-06-2027 and from 20-10-2027 to 23-02-2028 


During this period, Saturn travels in the Moon rashi and its full aspect falls on the 
third, seventh and tenth bhavas. Saturn is placed in the abdominal area during this period. 
Therefore there is a possibility of ailments in the entire middle part of the body. Physical 
energy is affected. The mind does not function and wrong decisions are taken. There may 
be disputes with brothers and with partners in business. One's spouse may suffer physical 
pain or there may be a quarrel with her. Financial problems persist. At the mental level, 
there is a strong rebellion. Useless fears cause anxiety. No work is according to one's 
desires and incomplete work makes one unhappy. Obstacles continue. Family and 
business life is unstable and some relative may die. Travels to distant lands may be 
undertaken, enemies may inflict harm and here may be separation from near ones. 
Diseases, loss of wealth, decline in social standing, shortage of friends and hurdles in work 
are the highlights of this period. 


Pema Hu NS THAR Dy PHOT BNET ae 
First Cycle from 17-06-1968 to 17-06-1968 and from 07-03-1969 to 28-04-1971 


Garand Crurela fram 17_NA_1008 ta NB_NKB_INNN and fram ta 


STEVE JOBS (3 


legs and therefore during this period the legs may suffer from ailments. From the physical point 
of view, there may be weakness. One may feel inactive and physically lazy. Happiness faces 
hurdles, useless disputes occur,unnecessary conflicts with relative arise and they may suffer 
either from a serious ailment or pain equivalent to death. Happiness is destroyed and position 
suffers. Expenses increase. Money comes but it is spent as soon as it comes. Lowly people give 
troubles. Due to its aspect on the eighth house, one's life span is influenced. Due to its sight 
upon the fourth house, domestic happiness, happiness of mother, vehicles and other physical 
comforts face obstacles. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 70 


STEVE JOBS 


Results of Laghu Kalyani Dhayya and Kantaka Saturn 


Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of fourth House (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from to and to 
Second Cycle from 10-06-1973 to 23-07-1975 and to 
Third Cycle from 23-07-2002 to 08-01-2003 and 07-04-2003 to 05-09-2004 
When Saturn transits in the fourth house from Moon sign, its full aspect is on the Moon lagna, the sixth 
and tenth house from the Moon lagna. There may be a change of place or transfer. Housing may 
become a problem. Heart problems may occur. Blood pressure may not be stable. There may be 
separation from relatives. Family happiness suffers. There may be opposition both from the public and 
government. Saturn's full aspect is on the tenth house, therefore there are obstacles in the work 
sphere. Saturn's aspect on the Moon lagna causes mental fear. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of seventh house (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from to and to 
Second Cycle from 03-11-1979 to 14-03-1980 and 27-07-1980 to 06-10-1982 
Third Cycle from 09-09-2009 to 15-11-2011 and 16-05-2012 to 04-08-2012 
When Saturn transits in the seventh house from the birth rashi its full aspect is on the Moon lagna & 
the fourth and ninth house from the Moon lagna. One's wife may suffer from ailments of the urinary 
organs. Mental anxiety increases. Due to its aspect on the ninth house, there are obstacles in favorable 
fortune, father may suffer, name and honor suffer and there are upheavals in the work-sphere. Due to 
its aspect on the fourth house, mother's health may suffer. Vehicle related problems occur. One may 
have to leave home, stay away for long periods and travel a lot. There may be hardships in travelling. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of eighth House 
First Cycle from to and to 12-11-1955 
Second Cycle from 06-10-1982 to 21-12-1984 and 31-05-1985 to 16-09-1985 
Third Cycle from 15-11-2011 to 16-05-2012 and 04-08-2012 to 02-11-2014 
When Saturn transits the eighth house from the Moon, its full aspect is on the second, fifth and tenth 
house from the Moon sign. There is a possibility of long term ailments and accidents. There is a fear of 
being insulted. There may be fear of pain from government servants. There is a chance of change in 
work-sphere. Work/business may suffer. Wealth may be diminish. Children may suffer pain and there 
are possibilities of separation from children. 
Results of Saturn’s Dhayya of tenth house (Kantaka Saturn) 
First Cycle from 08-02-1958 to 02-06-1958 and 07-11-1958 to 01-02-1961 
Second Cycle from 16-12-1987 to 20-03-1990 and 20-06-1990 to 14-12-1990 
Third Cycle from 26-01-2017 to 20-06-2017. and 26-10-2017 to 24-01-2020 
When Saturn transits the tenth house from the Moon sign, its full aspect is on fourth, seventh and 
twelfth houses from Moon. There may be hurdles in business. Your source of income may be upset. 
You may face failure in business or defame due to ill deeds. Unnecessary expenditure may be 
undertaken.There may be disputes or separation from your spouse. There may be worries regarding 
home and wealth. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 71 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Remedies for Sadhesati of Saturn and Dhayya 


To alleviate the ill-effects of Sadhesati of Saturn and Dhayya, the following are prescribed - 
1. Mantra 
(a) 125,000 times recitations of Mahamrityunjaya mantra should be done (daily 10 malas for 125 
days). 


ao Tray ame ate yfeags | sateafta aearyerdelts agar 1 


(b) The following mantra of Saturn should be recited 23,000 times in 21 days - 


do Valea res sat seg Uta | pratreserg As so VT PAPE AA: I 
(c) An ancient mantra of Saturn - 


do Tes aga TART | SraTATUSsa at AMT PATTI 


2. Stotra 
The ‘Dashratha stotra’ or the following stotra of Saturn should be recited 11 times - 


aurea: fret ay: Hot Tetsatat aa: 1 GR: yaya we: fees Bea: 11 
wf via-amni atevaerafadt | vAaveated Uist a welfare afacata 
aca Were ara - free sara - 
Tae area fleet Ad | TA ayRU HoT a AA Ft 
Te Uses AM MRT | Ae aaa TH Ae fest 
Tet TEA PAT ANd | Wale Ge eae Ges We a 


3. Gems and Metals 

On Saturday, wear an iron ring which has been made from the bottom of a boat or a horse’s bridle, on 
the middle finger. 

4. Vratta (Fasting) 

Observe Vratta on Saturdays. Worship Lord Saturn with kavacha, stotra and mantra. It is beneficial 
to recite the Saturday Vratta Katha. On the day of Vratta, consume milk, curd and fruit juice during the 
day time and in the evening pay a visit to the temple of Lord Hanuman or Bhairavji. Take sweet halwa 
(sweet dish) made of Urad pulse or salted Khichari (dish prepared from rice and Urad pulse boiled 
together). 

5. Medicine 

Every Saturday bathe with surma, black sesame seeds, saunf (anise), nagarmotha (the sweet smelling 

grass Cyprus) and lodha (the tree Symploce racemoze). 

6. Donation 

To appease Lord Saturn, donate urad (a type of pulse), oil, sapphire, sesame seeds, kulathi (a horse 
bean), buffalo, iron, money and black clothes. 

7. Other Remedies 

(a) Wrap a raw cotton thread seven times round a peepal tree (the holy fig tree) on a Saturday evening 
and recite the mantra for Saturn. Light a lamp with mustard oil under the tree and seek forgiveness for 
any misdeed done knowingly or unknowingly in the past. 

(b) Measure a black thread equal to 19 times the length of your hand and wear it like a garland. 

(c) Ruse: On Saturday bury in an un-tilled place a sweet made of urad pulse, sesame, oil and jaggery. 
(d) For the appeasement of Saturn, on a Saturday wear the tail of a Scorpion wrapped in a black 
thread. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 72 


STEVE JOBS 


- Recommendations for Gem Stones 
The wearing of gems is an important consideration that can potentially change and alter many areas 


of your life. As this is a classical science, we give below the views of the ancient Indian 
astrologers. 


Tift AO: GTS Yeas vikeiaaer @ faga Fofer: ares wre | 

aes UT ae Veet Faieraion afed Wedges 11 
“Tl Planets and how to propitiate them by bestowal of gems: When the Sun is hostile, a pure ruby; when the 
Moon, a good pearl; when Mars, a coral; when Mercury, an emerald; when Jupiter, a topaz; when Venus, a 
diamond, when Saturn, a (blue) sapphire; when Rahu, a gomedha; when Ketu, a cat’ s-eye, should be given.~ 
Mani Mala, Part II, 79 


Tt TVS sg AATeT | AUT ATTA TASTUETT 
fret yi 3: ~ haf : =i 
“The wearing of gem studded ornaments brings respect, fame, longevity, wealth, happiness, strength and 
fruition. Over and above this, it wards off evil astral influences, makes the body healthy, removes misery and 
fortune and washes away sin.’— Mani Mala, Part II, 121-122. 


Life Stone 
The gem for the lagna lord is a good stone to wear at all times. It gives health, vitality, general 
success and wellbeing. Wearing it supports all other areas of life. Your lagna lord is the Sun, 
therefore wearing the Sun’ s stone will be beneficial. The stones for the Sun are : Ruby, Red Spinel 
and Red Garnet. 


“The treasuring up of a ruby furnished with every perfection is as meritorious as the celebration of the 
Aswamedha yajna and leads to wealth, success and long life.” — Mani Mala, Part I, 219. 


“The man who keeps in his house a sterling ruby can with perfect safety, constantly live in the midst of 
enemies, and is impervious to the attacks of good fortune.” — Mani Mala, Part I, 199. 


“The ruby is sweet, cool, specific for imperfect oxidation and biliousness.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 62. 
Wearing instructions: The gem for the Sun is best set in gold, though copper can be used as an alternate. If a 
ring, it should be worn on the ring finger. Begin to wear it on a Sunday at sunrise. 


Mantra to purify and energize the Sun's gem: 


eo ETT: yaa TA: 1 “Aum grinih Suryaya namah.” 


HP3 « 73 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Punya (Lucky) Stone 


The gem for the fifth lord is particularly lucky, while also being good for creative energy, 
and children. Your fifth lord is Jupiter, therefore wearing Jupiter's stone will be beneficial. 
The stones for Jupiter are : Yellow Sapphire, Yellow Topaz, Citrine. 


“The (yellow) topaz is sour, cool, and curative of abnormal oxidation, causes appetite, 
and brings fame, wealth and wisdom.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 65. 
Wearing instructions: The gem for Jupiter is best set in gold. Ifa ring, it should be worn 
on the index finger. Begin to wear it on a Thursday one hour before sunset. 
Mantra to purify and energize Jupiter's gem: 


se F FSCS FA: | “Aum brim Brihaspataye namah.” 


Bhagya (Fortune) Stone 


The gem for the ninth lord particularly brings fortune. Your ninth lord is Mars, therefore 
wearing Mars' stone will be beneficial. The stone for Mars is Red Corel. 


“A clear, soft, cool, and finely red coral is auspicious, conduces to prosperity and is an 
antidote to poisoning.” — Mani Mala, Part I, 356. 


“The coral is sour, sweet, specific for cold and biliousness, nutritious, and grace 
imparting; and the wearing of it is very beneficial to women.” — Mani Mala, Part II, 66. 


Wearing instructions: The gem for Mars is best set in silver, though if the desire is to 
increase one's courage, strength and bodily warmth then it should be set in gold. Ifa ring, it 
should be worn on the ring finger, or index finger. Begin to wear it on a Tuesday, one hour 
after sunrise. 


Mantra to purify and energize Mars' gem: 


3% 3 SIR AA: I “Aum ang Angarakaya namah.” 


General Instructions 


Generally it is always best to purchase the best quality gemstones that you can afford. 
The stones of lesser potency have been found to work very well and are less costly, though 
they need to be worn in a larger size in order to give the same strength of effects. 


To derive the best effects of a gem, begin to wear it after cleansing it in fresh milk and 
rinsing it in purified water. Then, holding and concentrating on the gem, perform the 
mantra given 108 times. 


Gems should generally be worn on the right for men and the left for women. Gems may 
be worn either on the appropriate finger as a ring, or on the upper arm as a bangle. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 74 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Alternately the gem can be worn around the neck, but this has the disadvantage of the gem 
swinging and not maintaining skin contact. Most important is that the Gem is set so as to touch 
the skin. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 75 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Applicable Benefic Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Voshi Yoga 


A planet, other than Moon, occupies the 12th house from Sun. Look out for the variety 
with the same name. 


Result : The person will exercise no restraint of speech, having eloquence, good 
learning, wide renown, sharp memory, physical strength and charitable nature. 
Untruthful, walking with the gaze directed downwards and given to excessive physical 
effort. 


Voshi Yoga (Benefics) 
A benefic, other than Moon, occupies the 12th house from Sun. 


Result : This variety of Voshi Yoga shows that the person is intelligent, learned, 
strong, wealthy and engaged in scientific pursuits. 


Buddhmaturya yoga 


The 5th house lord, as a benefic, is aspected by a benefic or is placed in a benefic sign 
(Sarvartha Chintamani 5/32). 


Result : The person is a person of great intelligence and character. 


Trikalagnana Yoga 


Jupiter is in Mrudvamsha, in own Navamsha sign, or in Gopuramsha while aspected 
by a benefic planet (Sarvartha Chintamani 5/53). 


Result : The person will acquire the gift of reading the past, present and the future. 


Yogas related to Charity 
Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Kahala Yoga 
Lords of the 4th and the 9th in mutual Kendras, and the lord of Lagna is strong. 


Result : The person is aggressive, courageous, ignorant, commander of an army, owner 
or ruler of several villages. The person has material possessions, and ownership of 
land, houses and vehicles. 


Lakshmi Yoga 
The Lagna lord is abundantly strong, and the lord of the 9th house occupies a Kendra 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 76 


STEVE JOBS i 


identical to his own house, his Moolatrikona, or his exaltation. 


Result : The person is good in looks, virtuous, very wealthy, owns vast lands, learned, and illustrious 
king, widely renowned, blessed with numerous spouses, and children. 


Viparita Vimala Raja Yoga 
The 12th lord is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/69). 


Result : This makes the person virtuous and contented. The person will be equipped 
with good behaviour towards others, will enjoy happiness, will be independent, 
following a respectable profession or conduct, and will be known for good qualities. 


Yogas related to Education 
Yogas related to Profession 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Mars rules the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession of Mars, connected to minerals, fire 
(fireworks, kitchen, engine driving or any work connected to heat or fire), weapons, 


adventures and physical strength. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
The lord of the Navamsha occupying the 10th lord is Jupiter (Brihat Jataka 10/3). 


Result : Wealth and livelihood will come to the person through involvement with 
educated classes, knowledge, law, religion, temples, charities, discipleship, pilgrimage 
and spiritual pursuits. The person might get income through siblings or children 


(Jupiter). 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Jupiter rules the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession connected Jupiter, like involvement 
with educated classes, knowledge, law, religion, temples, charities, discipleship, 
pilgrimage and spiritual pursuits. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Jupiter aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 
Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3° 77 


STEVE JOBS (3 


support other combinations indicating a profession connected Jupiter, like involvement with educated 
classes, knowledge, law, religion, temples, charities, discipleship, pilgrimage and spiritual pursuits. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Venus is in the 10th house from Lagna or Moon (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : The profession or social status of the person might be connected to gems, 
silver, cows, buffaloes, or anything of great value or sensory pleasure or relates to 
beauty. The person's income or source of wealth might come from a woman or a spouse 
(Venus). 


Karmajiva Yoga 
Venus rules the 10th house from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession of Venus, connected to gems, 
silver, cows, buffaloes, or anything of great value or sensory pleasure or relates to 
beauty. 


Karmajiva Yoga 


Venus aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession of Venus, connected to gems, 
silver, cows, buffaloes, or anything of great value or sensory pleasure or relates to 
beauty. 


Karmajiva Yoga 


Saturn aspects or conjuncts the lord of the 10th from Lagna, Moon or Sun (Brihat 
Jataka). 


Result : (To a lesser degree than other Karmajiva Yogas) This combination could 
support other combinations indicating a profession connected to Saturn, like labor, such 
as carrying loads, and low trades that go against family tradition. 


Gudhabhavarthavit Yoga 
Rahu is placed in the Sth house (Bhavartha Ratnakara 2/2/6). 


Result : The person will be an expert in understanding the inner meaning of things (a 
diplomat). 


Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 78 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Satkalatra Yoga 


The lord of the 7th or Venus are conjunct or aspected by Jupiter or Mercury (original 
source unknown). 


Result : The spouse (or wife) of the person will be noble and virtuous. 


Yogas related to Children 


Putra Sukha Yoga 


Jupiter and Venus are in the 5th house, or Mercury is in the 5th house, or the 5th house 
identical to a benefic sign occupied by a benefic planet (original source unknown). 


Result : The person will enjoy happiness due to his/her children. 


Bahuputra Yoga 
Rahu is in the 5th house, not in Saturn's Navamsha (original source unknown). 


Result : The person will have very many offsprings. 


Aurasaputra Yoga 


The 5th house contains a benefic or the 5th house is identical to a benefic sign or is 
aspected by benefics (Saravali 34/25). 


Result : The person will have a child that is legitimately his/her own (with a legitimate 
spouse). 


Aurasaputra Yoga 
Jupiter aspects Lagna, Sun or Moon (Saravali 35/26). 


Result : The person will have a child that is legitimately his/her own. 


Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 


Matrudirgayur Yoga 


The lord of the Navamsha sign holding the 4th house lord is strong and is located in a 
Kendra from Lagna or Moon (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/132). 


Result : The mother of the person will have a long life. 


Bhratruvriddhi Yoga 


The 3rd house lord, or Mars, or the 3rd house itself is conjunct or aspected by benefics 
and strong in other ways (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/16). 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 79 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Result : The person will have good luck with his brothers (or siblings) who will be very well off. 


Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Sarira Sukhya Yoga 
The Lagna lord, Jupiter or Venus are placed in a Kendra (Sarvartha Chintamani 
2/98). 
Result : Longevity, wealth from and alignment with political powers are bestowed upon 
the person. 


Purnayu Yoga 


Lagna lord and the Sth house lord, both occupy a Chara sign, or one in a Dvisvabhava 
sign and the other in Sthira sign. 


Result : This combination is an indication of a long life span up to 100 years. 


Purnayu Yoga 


The Lagna and the Moon, both occupy a Chara sign, or one in a Dvisvabhava sign and 
the other in Sthira sign. 


Result : This combination is an indication of a long life span up to 100 years. 


Purnayu Yoga 


The 6th or the 12th lord are placed in the 6th house or in the 12th house or the 8th 
house or the Lagna. 


Result : This combination is an indication of a long life span up to 100 years. 


Special Astrological Yogas 
Yogas related to Wealth 


Dhana Yoga 


There is a relationship between the Lagna lord on the one hand and the 2nd, or 5th, or 
9th or 11th lord on the other hand. 


Result : The person will be wealthy. 


Karmajiva Yoga 
The 10th lord is in a Dvishvabhava sign in the Rashi and the Navamsha (Sambu Hora 
Prakasha 15/15). 


Result 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 80 


STEVE JOBS (3 


: The person will acquire wealth and happiness in both own land and a foreign place. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Raja Yoga 
A mutual relationship exists between the lord of the 5th house on the one hand and the 
7th or the 10th on the other. 

Result : This elevates the status of the individual in terms of success, recognition and 


status. 


Raja Yoga 
A mutual relationship exists between the lord of the 7th house on the one side and that 
of the 9th on the other. 

Result : This elevates the status of the individual in terms of success, recognition and 


status. 


Raja Yoga 
Venus occupying the Lagna, and aspected by or associated with the Moon or Jupiter 
(Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra 41/11). 

Result : The person will be related to royal circles. Leads to kingship or royal status (In 
modern context this means a high governmental status). 


Raja Yoga 
Venus occupying the Karakamsha Lagna or the Sth there from, and aspected by or 
associated with the Moon or Jupiter (Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra 41/11). 

Result : The person will be related to royal circles. Leads to kingship or royal status (In 
modern context this means a high governmental status). 


Raja Yoga 
Rahu is in a Kendra or Trikona, conjunct a Kendra lord or Trikona lord (Brihat 
Parashara Hora Shastra 36/17). 

Result : Brings forth king. Leads to kingship or royal status (In modern context this 
means a high governmental status). 


Raja Yoga 
The lord of the Navamsha sign which the Moon occupies, resides in a Kendra or 
Trikona from Lagna or Mercury (Sarvartha Chintamani 9.28). 


Result 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 81 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Sunapha Yoga 


A planet, other than Sun, occupies the 2nd house from Moon. Look out for the variety 
with the same name. 


Result : This confers upon the person a status equivalent to a king, immense wealth, 
capacity to earn fortune through own efforts, wide renown, inclination towards 
virtuous deeds, quietude and contentment. 


Amala (Amala-Kirti) Yoga 
There is a natural benefic in the 10th house from Moon (Phala Deepika 6/12). 


Result : The person is revered by the ruler, blessed with physical pleasures, of a 
charitable disposition, likeable and helpful, and enjoys lasting fame. 


Satkirti Yoga 


The lord of the 10th house is a benefic and is located in it's sign of exaltation, friends 
sign or in it's own sign and divisions or in a benefic Shastiamsha (Sarvartha 
Chintamani 8/22). 


Result : The person will get fame in life. 


Gaja-Kesari Yoga 


Jupiter in a Kendra from Moon. Look out for another texts dealing with the particular 
version of this Yoga. 


Result : The person is illustrious, overpowering, virtuous, wealthy, intelligent, 
scholarly, of royal bearing and enjoys lasting fame. 


Raja Sambandha Yoga 


The 10th lord from Lagna is conjunct or aspected by the dispositor of the 
Amatyakaraka or conjunct or aspected by the Amatyakaraka itself (Brihat Parashara 
Hora Shastra 42/1). 


Result : The person will become a chief in the kings court (in modern context: in a high 
governmental position). 


Yogas related to Cancellation 


Arishta-Bhanga Yoga 
Moon is in Drekkana of Mercury or Jupiter. 


Result : This combination cancels or neutralizes Balarishta Yoga which threatens death 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 82 


STEVE JOBS 


to the newborn child. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 83 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Applicable Mixed Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Sunapha (Mangal) Yoga 
Mars occupies the 2nd house from Moon. 


Result : This variety of Sunapha Yoga indicates that the person is valorous, cruel, 
fierce, wealthy, a king or commander, averse to hypocrisy, having a son who takes to 
agriculture. 


Voshi Yoga (Buddha) 
Mercury occupies the 12th house from Sun. 


Result : This variety of Voshi Yoga shows that the person appears poor to all, devoid 
of physical strength, and is shameless. 


Sada Sanchara Yoga 


The Lagna lord or the ruler of the sign occupied by the Lagna lord is in a Chara sign 
(Sarvartha Chintamani 2/91). 


Result : The person will always wander. 


Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Musala Yoga 


If Lagna is in a Sthira sign and several planets also in Sthira signs then the effects of 
Musala yoga can be felt. 


Result : One born in this Yoga is proud, learned, wealthy, liked by ruler, famous, of 
stable nature, and blessed with several sons. He/she is trustworthy, has stability and 
durability, is fixed and determined. However, the person might be obstinate, unable to 
take quick decisions and might have difficulty adapting to change. 


Yogas related to Profession 
Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 
Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 


Gaja-Kesari Yoga 
Jupiter 4th house from Moon. 


Result : This combination should be very favorable for domestic comforts and the 
mother of the person. But according to Mansagari this Yoga deprives one of comforts 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 84 


STEVE JOBS (3 


at home, leads to troubles in respect of the mother, and confers an attitude to work for others. 


Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Vataroga Yoga 
Mars is in the 5th, 9th or the 7th house (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14/53). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to a Vata disorder or imbalance (Ayurvedic 
diagnosis). This can range between nervousness, restlessness, insomnia, constipation, 
lack of fluid in the body, cold, depression, etc. 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Uttamadi (Dhana) Yoga 
Moon is in a Panaphara (2,5,8,11) from Sun. 


Result : The person's wealth, learning, efficiency and fame will be (madhya) medium. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 85 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Applicable Malefic Yogas 


Yogas related to Personality and Appearance 
Yogas related to Nature and Temperament 


Asatyavadi Yoga 


The lord of the 2nd house is placed in the house of Saturn or Mars and malefics are in 
Kendras and Trikonas (Sarvartha Chintamani 3/46). 


Result : The person will become untruthful. 


Yogas related to Different Areas of Life 


Nissva Yoga 
The lord of the 2nd house is in the 6th, Sth or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/59). 


Result : The person will be harsh in speech, remain in bad company and will have ill 
formed teeth and eyes, bereft of intelligence, children, learning and power, wealth 


being taken away by foes. 


Yogas related to Marriage and Spouse 
Yogas related to Children 


Kalanirdesat Putranasa Yoga 
Malefics are placed in the Sth house from Jupiter and Lagna (original source 


unknown). 
Result : The person suffers from the loss of a child in his/her 32nd and 40th year. 


Yogas related to Parents and Siblings 


Bandhubhisthyaktha Yoga 
The lord of the 4th house is connected to malefics or holds bad Shasthiamshas or is 
placed in enemy or debilitation signs (Sarvartha Chintamani 4/68). 


Result : The person will have trouble with his close relatives, due to misunderstanding 


or be deserted by them. 


Matrunasa Yoga 
Moon is hemmed between malefics, or conjunct or aspected by malefics (Sarvartha 


Chintamani 4/133). 


Result : The mother of the person dies early. 


HP3 « 86 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Yogas related to Health and Longevity 


Arishta Yoga 

The Lagna lord is in conjunction or mutual aspect with the 6th, or the 8th, or the 12th 
house lords (If the lords of the 2nd and 7th houses are involved the effects are more 
severe), 

Result : The person will suffer from bad health (the planets that constitute this Yoga 
will give more specific information). 


Arishta Yoga 
The sixth house lord is in conjunction or in mutual aspect with the 8th or the 12 house 
lords (If the lords of the 2nd and 7th houses are involved the effects are more severe). 
Result : The person will suffer from bad health (the planets that constitute this Yoga 
will give more specific information). 


Arishta Matibhramana Yoga 


The lord of the 6th house is conjunct or aspected by a malefic, the 6th house itself 
holds or is aspected by malefics, Mercury and Moon are in Trik houses or aspected by 


malefics (Major S.G. Khout). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to the development of a mental disorder. 


Hillaja Netradosha Yoga 
Mars is in a malefic sign or in a Kendra receiving an aspect from another malefic 
planet (Sambu Hora Prakasha 14/67). 


Result : The person will be vulnerable to blindness. 


Alpayu Yoga 
The Lagna and the Hora Lagna, both occupy a Sthira sign, or one in a Chara sign and 
the other in Dvisvabhava sign. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 
32. 


Alpayu Yoga 
No benefics in Kendras, and a benefic placed in the Sth house. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 


32. 


Alpayu Yoga 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. 


HP3 « 87 


STEVE JOBS (3 


The 3rd lord and Mars are combust or afflicted by malefics. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 32. 


Alpayu Yoga 
The &th lord and Saturn, are combust or afflicted by malefics. 


Result : This combination indicates a short life span for the person or upto the age of 
32. 


Yogaristha (Yogaja Ayu) Yoga 
Malefics in Kendras, unaspected by Moon, Venus or Jupiter, and Moon is in the 6th or 
8th house (Jataka Parijata). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to an early death of 20 years of age (keep in mind 
that this is an isolated indication that should be supported by other indications to come 
true - also look out for Aristha-Bhanga Yoga for the cancellation of this effect). 


Yogas related to Wealth 


Daridra Yoga 
The lord of the 11th house is in a Dusthana (the 6th, 8th or 12th houses). 


Result : The person will attain huge debts, suffer poverty, will have hearing troubles, 
have a mean temperament, and indulge in sinful and unlawful activity. 


Daridra Yoga 
The lord of the 11th house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th house (Phala Deepika 6/68). 


Result : Incoming debts will constantly be the way of life for the person, suffering from 
diseases of the ear, deprived of good siblings, engaged in cruelity and sins, indecent in 
speech and work like a menial. 


Daridra Yoga 


The lords of the houses occupied by the Dusthana lords, are in the Dusthanas 
themselves and conjunct or aspected by Malefics. 


Result : The person might suffer from poverty, misery and ill-health. 


Daridra Yoga 
Benefic planets are located in malefic houses, and malefic planets in benefic houses. 


Result : The person might suffer from poverty, misery and ill-health. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 88 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Yogas related to Status and Achievement 


Raja Yoga Bhanga 


Lagna is identical to Leo, Saturn is exalted while in a debilitated Navamsha sign or 
aspected by benefic planets (original source unknown). 


Result : The person is vulnerable to a loss of fortune and high social position 


Kulapamshala Yoga 
Benefics only in Saggitarius Navamsha (Sambu Hora Prakasha). 


Result : The person will live in a distant land, be discarded by his/her family, 
vulnerable to poverty and the loss of wife and children. 


Yogas related to Cancellation 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 89 


STEVE JOBS 


Life Interpretation Report for STEVE JOBS 


Your mandates are royal commandments. You are militant about your grand schemes; your 
stimulating intellect arouses others to action. Fiercely protective of your family and your 
mother, you receive fortunate aid from father, elders, and teachers. With good stamina and a 
competitive spirit, you are a good show-off and entertainer, not shy about promoting 
yourself. You tell people what to do in a well thought out detail. As a fast and bright thinker, 
you have plans that often are realized. You are interested in sports, games, intellectually 
prominent people, children, and spiritual advancement. You are systematic about handling 
money and speak with pride of your family values. Career stresses and worries can pressure 
you into taking shortcuts to avoid being pushed out of the centers of power and influence. 
You can handle complicated mental tasks and complete important jobs entrusted to you. 
Make time for relaxation and fun! 


Your personality is smooth. You are affable and agreeable. You have a dry and sarcastic 
sense of humor. You are optimistic about evaluating the outcome of situations. You are very 
social. 


You are forgiving in disposition, treating friends and loved ones with tenderness and 
devotion. You are generous. You have a charitable disposition. You are a sensitive, caring, 
and just person. You are considerate, thinking of the consequences of your actions and their 
effect on others. You generally avoid confrontations. 


You become easily diffused. It is likely that you have an unusual level of maturity. You are 
persistent. You are a calm person. You are a quiet person. You are quiet, gentle, and easy 
going, impressionable, refined, and irresolute. You do not readily promise things to others. 
You are naturally cautious in legal matters and the signing of contractual documents. 
Politically, you have a traditional mindset. 


Because you can act on inner faith, you can receive benefits without blocking them with 

fear. There may be sparks of insight in detecting marvelous opportunities for prosperity, and 
the right people to advance that process. Sometimes you will feign being confused to dig deep 
into a discussion topic. You are wise. Your innate sense of what is right makes you a wise 
person. You can be systematic about doing things. 


You are energetic. It is likely that you have a strong will power. You are assertive. You are 
drawn to centers of power. You are bold. You are courageous. You are strong, with 
independent views on life, its purpose, and evolutionary direction. You are a warrior with 
scant affinity for feminine things. You may not be easily motivated, but when you act, you 
are brave. Bent on accomplishing your goals, you may seem ruthless or hardhearted. Your 
energy and motivation are quite balanced. You are independent minded. You are best off 
when you can follow your own counsel and not take the advice that others are ever ready to 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 90 


STEVE JOBS 


give you. 
You see new opportunities for prosperity everywhere you go. 
You could have a tendency to dissipation and intemperance. 


You have an air of being open-minded but really have very fixed opinions about everything under the 
Sun. You cannot stand being told what to do by anyone except by someone who is a more powerful 
macho man than yourself. 


Sometimes you seem unable to take action effectively. Sometimes, you feel a little tired of using your 
intellectual abilities all the time. Your impulsiveness may lead you to immoral acts. People should be 
careful not to cross paths with you as you usually win in the end. You are patriotic, with deep feelings 
for your native culture and motherland. You can be intricately caustic. You are self-centered. It is likely 
that you are not humble. 


You are prone to anger. You have an angry kind of righteousness, and when you are acting according to 
the righteous judgments and values, you tend to act harshly and even aggressively. You can become 
angry with those who pierce your projection of selfless concern for society's welfare. You are not an 
aggressive kind of person, but if provoked you can be quite annoyed, and burst out verbally. 


You are a sensitive, anxiety prone, cautious yet courageous individual. You are acutely aware that you 
cannot act unless the right conditions are present. You may have a tendency to feel inadequate and 
mentally depressed even though you plan well. When you are actually presented with an excellent 


opportunity to let it happen, then you may experience fear and vulnerability. You could be a shy person. 
You like to work behind the scenes, as you are shy and do not like the limelight. 


You might be a little lazy and disinterested at times. You are restless, lacking in buoyancy, hope, and are 
easily discouraged when you meet with obstacles, misfortunes or opposition in life. You are a person 
with many desires, which makes you restless and sometimes makes you act with less moral awareness. 


Happiness lies in spiritual growth. You have so much that interests you that you can be happy in any 
circumstances, no matter how difficult. 


You are well proportioned. Your body has a predisposition to being plump. You have a fair 
complexion. It is likely that your skin is reddish. Your complexion may be somewhat dark. You have a 
ruddy complexion. You have a sanguine complexion. You have a swarthy complexion. You have 
beautiful eyes. You have lovely eyes. Your calves are well developed. 


You may have a nasal or grainy voice. You are a sensitive speaker. You are quiet most of the time. You 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 91 


STEVE JOBS 


go to great pains to make sure you phrase your words properly and get your point across. Your wit can 
be brilliant. You are very clever and verbally quick. You can talk your way out of or into any situation. 


You do not waste energy in idle chatter although you can explain yourself in detail when necessary. 
Much of your quest in life involves finding the right medium through which to express your potential, 
just as the poet has to strive to find an authentic language and unique voice. 


Your speech may be a little hard to understand for others. 


You have a sometimes proud and cynical way of speaking. 


Your ideas are practical, and judged on the basis of their usefulness and substance. 


Your mind is sharp. You have a calculating mind. You can use your mind to be cutting and wounding. 
Your mind is active and restless, always thinking. Eventually you will develop wisdom from your 
mental labor. You are constantly engrossed in deep thoughts. You have a deep insight. You are 
mediumistic. You may have prophetic dreams and you have the ability to know the condition of the 
energies of those around you. You are mentally disciplined and tend to plan carefully. 


You have a long-distance viewpoint. You can be somewhat opinionated and think you can solve all your 
problems yourself. 


At worst times, your disturbed mind will result in a lack of self-confidence and will power. Your 
thought process could become imbalanced at times, leading to narrow-mindedness, depression, or 
delusions. Your mind is very sensitive and seems to be in constant turmoil. Your restless mind is ever 
ready to give new interpretations to the meaning of things and relationships. You get sidetracked from 
your main purposes in life by interest in research, gambling, speculation, or occult studies. 


Your mind is inclined to unusual, and even eccentric, interests. Sometimes you are quite perplexed. You 
have a gambler's mentality and are prone to risk everything on an omen. 


Your mind is constantly occupied with plans to improve your material comforts and satisfy your 
desires. Profit is the goal of your initiatives. 


You have a pious soul. Emotionally you are sensitive but quite insecure. You feel close to the divine 
aspect of yourself. 


You are liable to depressions. You feel as if you are neglected by classmates or close associates. Too 
much thinking causes tension. You do not like being restricted; you have to feel free. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 92 


STEVE JOBS (3 


You are endowed with an intelligent mind. You have a particular interest in learning and education. 
Your adaptability gives a profound intelligence and an ability to understand knowledge, which is 
normally very difficult to access. 


You are provided with a sharp intellect. You have a sharp intelligence, very capable of penetrating 
obscure or hard to get knowledge. You are highly clever. 


bX. : 
ay bring emotional 
stimulation and religious inclinations. Education and any learning process is a rewarding experience for 
you. Any money spent on education and training will pay off well. 


You are endowed with higher learning, wisdom, and good moral values. University is a field of 
opportunity for you and life improves with higher education. You will go in for higher studies and 


succeed. Higher education is a very appropriate direction for you. Some teacher has made a lasting 
impression on you. Teachers have a very formative influence on you. 


Scientific research may be of interest to you. You are interested in economic philosophy. You may 
actually choose to educate your self in an artistic field, or some field that closely fits your self-motivating 
styles. Part of your study will be related to human relations, or some creative subject. 


Education will not go smoothly for you. Part of your studies will be in topics that most people would 
not care or dare to deal with. 


The most important knowledge comes after your ordinary course of schooling. 

You may have some deep knowledge or insights in the area of mechanical structures. You are righteous 
and talented and seek out knowledgeable people to get better informed. You have a little knowledge 
about many things. You have a good knowledge of law. You have knowledge of some very tricky or 


illusionary phenomena. 


You enjoy learning. You learn things slowly but thoroughly. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 93 


STEVE JOBS 


You excel in one or another activity and are renowned for it. You may be an author or have some other 
evidence of your skills. 


You can emerge victorious in spite of obstacles. You develop good problem-solving skills. You are good 
at making a diagnosis. Your mind may have an exceptional ability to see strategies in litigation or 
disputes. 


You have good judgment in seizing opportunities and often expanding the possibilities in the process. 
You know how to strategize for yourself and others. At the best times, your familiarity with dealing with 
emotional challenges makes you very courageous. 


You have mental and logical abilities combined with intuition and visionary qualities. 


You are very creative, although you can be quite 'tricky' at times. With an excellent sense of aesthetics, 
you understand the underlying principles of harmony and beauty. You have skills as a performer and 
love being center stage. 


You can smell potential profit a mile away. You have the ability to create growth and expansion of 
profits. With an acute sense of values and finances, you are good at planning your profits ahead of time. 
Healing skill may be seen: perhaps as a massage therapist, physical therapist or even as a surgeon. 


You are unable to create balanced relationships. In spite of your sympathy, you may lack the ability to 
help others emotionally. Maintaining a steady and happy emotional state is nearly impossible for you. 


You have a tremendous sense of color and balance. You may also have a talent of gaining through your 
opponents or enemies. 


You are an imaginative, romantic, dreamer and very sensitive to life currents, making you a gifted 
musician and artist, writer or speaker. You may be gifted in using, or creating stock or commodity 
trading systems that specialize in many small transactions that wind up making the investor a lot of 
money. You may be lacking in creative arts like music, acting, dancing etc. 


There are definite artistic skills - you are gifted with your hands. You may work to build up your 
strength through fitness training. You may be expert at regimens that improve physical, mental, or 
spiritual well being for yourself and for others. There is a good chance that you are left-handed. 


You have a deep love of music. You like the arts and are blessed with various skills. 


\ 
You radiate genuine warmth and affection. You are very forgiving but those wounded by you may not 
be. You are systematic, methodical, and objective. You are very careful in actions and sometimes even 
overly hesitant, before you plunge into new activities. You take initiatives deliberately and it is well 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 94 


STEVE JOBS 


considered. 
You need to cultivate an attitude of gratitude. 


You like to act according to ethical norms and principles. You have a giving disposition. You help those 
less fortunate than yourself. Through service to the poor and the masses, the dilemma gets resolved. You 
perform good deeds, commanding respect and you try to be beneficial to your community. 


You are an acute listener. You will tend to protect yourself from getting hurt, resulting in various types 
of responses that keep you at a safe distance from possible threats. You will understand well how others 
feel when they feel bad. 


You can be haughty sometimes. You dissect the foibles of teachers. You will not always care about 
others well being in your transactions with them. Generally, you will not have many opponents or 
enemies, but when angered you may have tendency for disputes and arguments, where you employ sharp 
speech. Sometimes you can be quite restless and mentally irritated. You may be sensitive, but not 
necessarily act sensitively to others. You may be a little tightfisted when it comes to supporting the 
welfare of those less fortunate. You will sometimes stretch the truth to accomplish your aims. 


You defeat yourself by patterns of anger, which you do not fully realize consciously, which lead you 
into inferior habits. You may be a sharp critic of mistakes that exist at the organizational level. Your own 
inappropriate behavior may create the possibility of being insulted or being put to disgrace. 


You believe in situation ethics rather than having an absolute moral code. You have strong physical 
movement and like activity. You have a love of training for its own sake. Learning, researching, and 
probing into the unknown is a welcome opportunity for your mind to use its sensitive nature, and brings 
relieve from anxiety. 


You enjoy wordplay for its own sake. You will enjoy the luxuries of life. You respect scientific 
knowledge and like to test philosophical ideas quantitatively if possible. You may be interested in the 
secrets of life and the other world. Health matters may hold a special interest in your mind. You enjoy 
supplying others' needs. You crave independence. 


You love social outdoor events such as horse races, fairs, and big parties. 


You have a love of art, film, music, painting, and theatrical spectacles. You may have strong interest in 
craft-related or artistic activities, like dance or other fields requiring physical dexterity. 


You love fast cars, fast fun, and a fast life in general. You may be skeptical of orthodox religion. 


You harbor a soft corner for animals and pets. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 95 


STEVE JOBS 


Having any kind of competition will be disturbing for you. You find working for an employer 
unsatisfactory. 


You should stay away from alcohol. 


Your energy is easily drained out. You may develop diseases that are hard to diagnose. 


Your health may be sensitive due to mental worry. Your digestive system may be sensitive. There may 
be some complex stomach problems. Sometimes your eyes are red, especially after consuming impure 
foods or being exposed to pollutants. Your right ear may suffer some problems. Skin and/or nervous 
system problems may occur. 


You should exercise caution while driving. There may be a threat of water, or at least some discomfort 
with water. 


You received your parents' blessings. You highly respect your father and mother's wisdom. There may 
be conflict between your parents, but you manage to stay good terms with both of them. There may be 
some distance between you and your parents or they may face unusual problems. You spend your 
parents' wealth without giving in return. 


Your mother has a sharp logical intelligence. Cultivating morality and a sense of social obligation 
makes all the difference to your mother's happiness. Your mother is able to repair and rehabilitate broken 
events and people. Your mother has the bravery to go after her aspirations. Your mother struggles 
against obstacles with firmness till the end, leaving the results to God. Your mother is hardworking and 
devoted to her work. Your mother strives to achieve her mission and cannot relax before accomplishing 
it. Your mother has excellent endurance, dignity, and persistence. Your mother is ready at a moment's 
notice to make sacrifices for her loved ones. Your mother thrives on having tasks to do and stagnates 
when idle. Your mother gets excited about making successful bargains. Your mother is probably 
fascinated by mystery, para-normal forces, unknown powers, death, astrology, tantra-mantra-yantra and 
the deeper realms of science, philosophy and psychology. Your mother is interested in accounts of 
deaths, natural or unnatural, such as drowning, fires, accidents, or suicides. Your mother ponders over 
the mysteries of reincarnation and longevity. Your mother likes exercise and physical fitness. 


Your mother can make an excellent teacher. Your mother can attract secret enmity from the opposite 
SCX. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 96 


STEVE JOBS 


Your mother is bossy. Expecting others to be as clever or hardworking as herself, your mother can be 
irritated or dissatisfied and make the situation worse by pushing them, which just makes them feel 
dejected and useless. While outwardly your mother appears to be liberal and tolerant, inwardly she is 
suspicious. Fixed in nature, your mother prefers stability in home, work, and relationships. Your mother 
holds off from interfering with others although sometimes that causes her to miss opportunities to help. 
Introverted and sometimes troubled, your mother has an active subconscious. Your mother was probably 
a spiritual person, which gave you good moral values and a healthy outlook in life. The attraction of the 
material planes is beginning to weaken your mother. If someone hurts your mother, she does not forget it 
easily. Giving herself up to materialism leads your mother to secret pangs of suffering. Salvation for 
your mother comes through associating with good company and with people who counter her boiling 
passions. Your mother may have successful or well-known friends, but it may be hard for her to stay on 
close and intimate terms with them. Your mother may lead a difficult life, or face some major change in 
her life at some point in time. Your mother may have to face marked difficulties. Your mother is not 
idealistic but neither is she mindful of obstacles. The worst things may happen to your mother when she 
allows herself to become completely passive, in a kind of fatalistic surrender. Your mother has to learn to 
be patient with others because they don't understand things as quickly as she does. Learning to allow 
losses to occur and refraining from exacting revenge, your mother will see herself regaining all that she 
loses. Your mother needs to be very alert to stay on top of the potent energies within her. There can be a 
separation from her. Your mother can be a help to you but you may keep some distance from her. 


Your father got fire in the mind, heat in the body and gallantry in the soul. "Bring me a higher love!" is 
his command. He is a sharp-eyed leader, with his own values at the center of everything, and he exalts in 
activity. Wise commands that emphasize the best procedures emanate from your father's mouth. A 
natural educator, even a minister, he can run into resistance from easygoing hedonists who do not like 
being preached to, but so secure is he in the correct assessments of his visionary mind, that he remains 
unruffled by opposition and uses his good karmic credits to go on uplifting everyone. His approach is a 
loving blend of spirituality and romantic appeal with a dharmic end firmly in view. He is philosophical, 
very fair-minded, and regards himself as a representative of higher principles and respected teachers. 
Education is very helpful, since his intellect is already running on all cylinders, and always in the 
background is a thirst for enlightenment. Themes in your father's existence are assertive biology, 
passion, and restless movement and not looking for reward because he expects his generosity to be 
returned in some cosmic way. He has strong quickly aroused affections and strong desires. He 
fascinates and dominates his mate and may attract some intense, secretive, or troublesome relationships. 
He is spontaneous, fresh, appealing, and full of vital energy. Nonattachment helps your father to be a 
spiritual warrior. He has a hair-trigger sensitivity and can make sudden changes that surprise his 
significant other. He has a strategic expertise. He can be over reactive to the many changes and 
disruptions that come up in day-to-day life. Spiritual transformations are felt and expressed physically 
by him. Your father enjoys, at least in imagination, frolicking about like a spring lamb. Your father is 
agile and lithe. Your father is surprisingly quick moving. Like Odysseus’, your father's life is a quest for 
ever new adventures, constantly searching for new experiences and developing new abilities to deal with 
them. Natural stubbornness gives your father the perseverance to successfully execute his plans. 
Outwardly, your father may seem unmotivated but once a worthy goal presents itself he pounces on the 
desired object, whether it is money, status, or anything else that appeals to him. Devoted to his work, 
your father ploughs ahead with patience and determination. 


Your father's income may be somewhat disappointing to him. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 97 


STEVE JOBS 


For your father life signifies new beginnings, new approaches, experiments, and eager struggles toward 
unknown outcomes. Good fortune comes to your father as he learns to slow down, consolidate his gains, 
and strategize for the long term. 


Happiness results from your interactions with your father. You may find it hard to accept him as senior 
to you. Your father's assistance may be unavailable due to circumstances beyond your control. You 
follow in your father's footsteps while thinking you are doing it all yourself. 


Your domestic life is harmonious because you are very tolerant. 
You may have had a job for one of your relatives. You do not follow the path they advise you to. 


You are a source of good ideas for your siblings and co-workers. Your siblings may substantially help 
you. You may have business partnerships with your brothers and sisters. 


Their status in life is likely to drastically change, affecting your career. You feel as if you have been 
abandoned or neglected by siblings. You might not have any younger siblings, but if you do, that sibling 
may have a difficult life. You might have some struggle with your siblings and some strain and worry in 
your relationship with your mother and father. Playfulness, creativity, moral values, and intelligence are 
qualities that should fit your siblings. One of your brothers will be macho, too. Your brothers or sisters 
may be salespersons or may be in the legal, police or armed services. You are likely to have several 
siblings. You might not have any younger siblings, but if you do, that sibling may be of a serious nature. 


Your relationship with your older sibling may not be smooth. Your elder sibling may be prosperous or 
hold a high position. 


You are influential, almost as a mentor or substitute parent, in your younger siblings' lives. Serious 
responsibilities may exist concerning a younger sibling. Younger siblings, however, are somewhat 
distant. 


Relatives, especially on your mother's side, may be a source of tension. You should be careful in 
financial dealings with cousins, uncles, older siblings, and friends. 


You are charming in disposition, and attracted to the opposite sex. You enjoy the company of the 
opposite sex and they have a great emphasis in your life. You are too fussy in your choice of marriage 
partner. It is very important for you to have a very personal one-to-one relationship. 


You are rather intense about relationships and therefore you tend to scare off some suitable mates. You 
will lack the skill to deal with the other sex and will face difficulties and power conflicts in long-term 
relationships. You are sensual. You have a high libido. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 98 


STEVE JOBS 


You will have a fortunate marriage. Marriage is very important to your sense of fulfillment. Your 
marriage goes through highs and lows. 


A happy marriage will be difficult thing to realize. A tendency to argue may create some loss in marital 
happiness. There may be serious difficulties with marriage or long-term relationships in the form of no 
marriage, delayed marriage, or a cold, unfeeling partner. You may marry more than once. Marriage may 
falter because expectations are placed too high. It is hard to simply accept and tolerate. You encourage 
your spouse to be more assertive in her/his own activities. If you do marry, an element of pride or ego 
will keep you from being really close to your spouse, and will be likely to cause separation. 


Marriage will bring prosperity. 


Financial strains can cause marital problems, but overall your spouse enjoys the enthusiastic support you 
give her/him. 


Studies are fascinating and even obsessive for your wife. She delights in deeply examining the 
character and behavior of her friends, going to the pinpoint value. She is an innovative and tireless 
intellectual and can be an overly critical micromanager or an advanced and constantly improving guide. 
Able to understand the subtleties of spirituality, she can be troubled by feeling unsupported and avoid 
pursuing her potential. Her personality is attracted to work with foreigners and high-tech processes. 


Your spouse is beautiful. Your wife is drawn to social activities, but will typically be among the more 
serious members of the group. Social interactions stimulate your wife's mind and often bring her a sense 
of comfort. Your spouse may be bold and motivated. Your wife is industrious and service oriented. For 
your wife, ideals come first and are supported with honesty. Humanity has a great claim on your wife's 
heart. Your wife has an unselfish, serving attitude, trying to do what is good for others. Your wife is 
levelheaded. Your wife's style of working is ambitious and capable, but her personality neither supports 
nor acknowledges that. Your spouse may be artistically inclined and may be interested in acting, music, 
writing, drawing and interactive activities. The individuals of the opposite sex that you are attracted to 
may be skillful at a craft and possess artistic abilities. Your wife has an ability to convey her knowledge 
to others. In spite of your wife's nature to be in solitude, she tends to be related to some kind of groups, 
clubs, or societies. Your wife's mind is logical and she believes in resolving disputes through arguments. 
Your wife contributes a new sense of valuing things in her environment. Your wife has a broad outlook 
and a grasp of social issues. Your wife is meant to show others a new direction. Your wife is positive, 
airy, human, and talkative. Your wife feels at home on the Internet, communicating with many. Your 
wife is likely to own the latest appliances including computers and other technology. Studying the 
behavior and character of friends is a fascination of your wife's. Your wife is always ready to set out on 
journeys of discovery. For herself your wife requires a comfortable, artistic, elegant lifestyle. Your wife 
gives a new twist to the direction of her group or community. 


Your wife has a sharp memory. Your wife's deep mental orientation brings out new ideas and thoughts 
all the time. Your wife is impersonal in her work. 


When directed by meditation your wife always goes the right way. Your spouse or romantic partner may 
be moral and devoted to higher consciousness, while you are more passionate and urging him/her to 
satisfy your various desires without so much regard for principles. Your wife is interested in solitude, 
meditation and quiet religious practices such as worship. Your wife is both sensitive and active. Your 
wife is soft-hearted. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 99 


STEVE JOBS 


Your wife may be too eccentric or lacking in charisma to sway the masses. Material expertise can take 
precedence over philosophical profundity in your wife's life. Your wife's peace is disturbed by recurrent 
but short-lived problems. Your spouse will be older and very tough also. 


Your spouse or partner may have a concern about fertility. Your wife should try not to be rigid towards 
those she dislikes. 


You will have eccentric or spiritual friends. There may also be incidents where your friends change into 
opponents. You may associate with people who do not have your best interests in mind. 


You may help your friends with technical solutions to their problems. You keep company with uplifting 
people. You exercise influence over your friends and they are helpful in opening doors for you. You 
have allies both among your family members and from others. Your friends may go through turmoils 
that affect you. You may run into problems with colleagues. You do not inspire your classmates, siblings 
and coworkers, but encourage them to complain and backbite. 


You may have opponents, competitors or industrial spies who prey on your work. Your enemies and 
opponents may suffer from injuries or health problems. Due to your enemies' obstacles, and by using 
problem-solving methods you may develop a scheme where you can gain from your main opponents and 
competitors. You always have an upper hand over your enemies in money matters. Your opponents or 
competitors may be able to grasp the opportunity before you can, or steal away from you an idea for 
financial enhancement. 


You are respected by others in specialized fields. Others sometimes find you to be crude or rude, which 
may hold you back from deserved promotions. You are a person of good repute. You are admired for 
your beauty and appealing looks. You may gain a great reputation for your education, cheerfulness and 
charm. 


You become integrated into prosperous groups of people. You project an interest in the welfare of 
society, but equally strong is your consciousness of the effects of society on you and your standing in 
life. 


Relationships form an important part of your personal life. It may be hard for you to network, to 
connect to people who can open up new chances for you. There are always others you can draw on for 
support. There will always be wise and supportive people in your life who help you fulfill your goals. 
Your students may feel alternately fascinated and abandoned by you. You are intelligent in your 
relationships with other people and knowledgeable about etiquette. You find it hard to get out of a 
dependent situation, where you must lean on parents, friends or spouse for your upkeep. You tend to turn 
others into satellites, who at some point may rebel against you. 


You are liked by foreigners. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 100 


STEVE JOBS 


- 
The stronger your desire to accomplish something, the sooner your subconscious responds. You are keen 
about getting ahead and finding your fortune in life. Determined efforts and hard work make you 
financially successful. You can harness your intelligence to work for employers and thus achieve 
ambitious goals. 


Your work focuses on the intellect. You use technical instruments in your work. You are able to work 
efficiently, and you are always on the lookout to make even more money. You may have to work under 
difficult or disagreeable circumstances. You may be engaged in competitive endeavors with other people 
in your field. It is hard to get your siblings and coworkers to pull together to accomplish a goal. The need 
to find the livelihood which matches your ambitions and natural abilities is an overwhelming and 
irritating factor. You must be allowed to work in your own way, dress in your own way and act in your 
own, very goofy way if you truly want to shine and do the brilliant, creative work of which you are 
capable. You excel as an accountant, technical writer, or business analyst. You can be an excellent 
teacher because you understand the depths of the struggles involved in learning. You may work on 
short-term jobs or contracts. 


You are worldly-wise. You are aggressive in business matters. 


You may seek out partnerships with people who are enterprising and have a good initiative. 


You prefer to be your own boss. You may be disruptive to organizations as you can be a maverick or 
rebel. 


You are more likely to gain as an employee of a large company than through independent business. 


You will have servants or assistants. Servants or employees are involved in your day to day work. If you 
have employees they will be likely to be insubordinate. You may have employees or command numbers 
of subordinates. 


Your sibling or colleagues may be helpful to your career. You are a great dabbler. Before you put all 
your effort into any venture, you have to be thoroughly familiar with all the consequences and even then 
you might be overly careful. 


At some time in your life you may rise to public popularity. There is a good chance of fame and 
certainly a good reputation in your life. You will enjoy the happiness of success many times in life and 
fame may come with it. In time you may become successful career-wise. You will be successful in 
fulfilling your goals in unforeseen ways. 


Results and gains come at the proper time. You will become more and more successful as the years go 
by. Your progress is unstable. You may have a hard time fulfilling your highest aspirations because you 
meet with annoying obstacles and hindrances. In your career, you have some important job changes for 
the better. You probably have one or two side businesses. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 101 


STEVE JOBS 


You may not get along well with authorities. If you ever get into a legal entanglement, you will 
eventually win. Organizations to which you belong may face litigation and other problems which delay 
your and their progress. 


You will use your subtle brain to speculate, and h 
information or subtle secret powers to aid you in making more profit. 


Inflow of cash is usually not a problem 

You tend to save your money. Loans are strategically important in your financial planning. 

There are indications of a good income, although hard work and a lapse of time may be needed. 

Part of your money is in the form of real estate. 

Income may be through problem solving or service of some kind. Income generation is related to service 
oriented work like law, medicine, administration, defense services and self care clinics. Your earnings 
are linked to the medical, legal or armed services. You may earn from activities connected to sports. No 
matter how much you earn, you wish it was more. You may have a tendency to take advantage of 


questionable means to make more money, make sure the gain is worth the risk. 


You put in more work than is required to gain more income. You fight for material gains and are 
successful by hook or by crook. 


The fields of real estate, vehicles, travel, construction, and engineering, especially mechanical, civil, or 
aeronautical, bode well for you. 


You like spending money. You may gain from investments in property and construction. 


Theft is a danger. You might suffer speculative losses. You may go for other sources of easy money. In 
the pursuit of your ends and should take care that one large risk might make you lose a large portion of 
your wealth. 


ES eS ¢ 
You are skilled at spiritual practices. That can give deep insights in your own mind, and you may have 
deep and significant spiritual or occult experiences. You have many good spiritual qualities and a 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 102 


STEVE JOBS (3 


definite talent for exploring the transcendental nature of life. You are probably very spiritually inclined, 
asking yourself deep questions about the reality of life and intent on gaining a release from the suffering 
of life through spiritual practices. You can be quite intense and defensive about your spiritual or 
religious views. 


You are devoted to truth, God, and higher consciousness. 


Your soul soars as you communicate insights coming from sources beyond the everyday. It is like your 
mind is in a state of transformation, a state in which it can easily change to take on the quality or nature 
of anything it is exposed to. You are oriented to a mystic and spiritual life. 


You may acquire spiritual knowledge and techniques. You must have periods of solitude every day to 
regenerate your mind, heart and soul. 


You are God fearing and devoted. You are God fearing. You are more inclined towards emotional 
devotion than intellectual discourses; you are more attracted to the appeal to your feelings rather than to 
reason. 


You avoid religious activities. 


There will be some preparation of medicine, or some kind of chemical processing taking place in your 
house. You tend to live in houses that are undergoing changes, renovation for example, and you will 
change residence on a regular basis. Finding a stable place to live may be difficult. 


You will do quite a bit of travelling. Travelling is beneficial for you. You may go on long trips. You 
may undertake long distance travels. You may visit places of spiritual pilgrimage. You may have to 
undertake unnecessary travel. Commuting is tedious for you. 


Time is on your side. You have a lot of fun in life. Your life will be characterized by fortune and 
happiness. 


Life tends to go through phases of ease and struggle. Your childhood was faced with difficult 
circumstances. Your early childhood family life was probably less than fulfilling. Success increases as 
time goes on. In early childhood, you may have had some problems or delay in learning to speak. 


Though you are gentle, sympathetic and compassionate, these virtues do not help you in a worldly 
sense. You might have a hard time letting your dreams and hopes come true. You will have some 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 103 


STEVE JOBS (3 


weakness in fulfilling your needs. You may have the sense that you are a toy or a puppet in the hands of 
fate. You may have to go through some failures before you succeed in life, but in time you will succeed 
with patience and perseverance. Sunday is a lucky day for you and one is a lucky number. 


You are a lucky person. Your actions tend to be supported by good luck. 


You start out with many gifts, a well-off family, knowledge of successful techniques, sponsors in 
fortunate places and good friends, but you still struggle to find that match between yourself and destiny. 
You have exceptional good fortune, something you have earned in previous lives. The good fortune of 
your previous birth helps you secure jobs easily. You can be lively and gain wealth through luck. You 
may have poor luck with finances, particularly finances that are due to you from other people. You'll be 
lucky in life, financially fortunate, and will gain great happiness from your siblings and your 
grand-children. Life has been fortunate for you. You rise and fall based on your popularity. Despite your 
risky behavior you still end up in fortunate circumstances and are most likely to be prosperous and 
blessed with children and family. 


Some incidents may be the source of great irritation to you. The kind of problems you are typically 
dealing with are most likely related to communication, and understanding the reasons why something 
happened. Your writings may at times land you in trouble. 


You must take care to avoid rough, low, criminal types as you tend to pick up everybody else's stress. 
You may get fulfillment for your need for comfort by seeking out and assimilating knowledge - 


philosophical or religious - that expands your horizon and makes you feel at home with the knowledge. 


Ruby is a precious gem for you, and garnets also enhance your energy. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 104 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Transit Interpretations 
Transit of Mercury in the Ist house from Natal Moon (10 Apr 2013 01:55:18 
to 28 Apr 2013 18:29:14) 
During this period, Mercury will move through your first house from the Moon. 
This may bring in some negative results in your life. This mostly brings in a 
situation where you may have to serve someone unwillingly. You are also 
susceptible to face oppression of some kind. Take care to avoid facing a haul over 
the coals and the lashes of unsympathetic words from others. Keeping a low 
profile and doing your task best should be the focus during this time. 


You may also have to watch out for unnecessary expenditure as this may cause a 
big hole in your wallet. Be cautious with your spending and pay attention to the 
safety of your finances. 


You are also likely to befriend some bad personalities who may cause harm. 
Watch your words while dealing with your near and dear ones. Your insensitivity 
may create some unnecessary enemies within your circle. Avoid any kind of 
lawsuits and bad company. Be careful not to do anything that may make you lose 


your self worth. You would always need your good fortune, so, save it. Take 
advantage of your education and experience to avoid any glitch in your life. 


Be flexible during this period, as you may have to make some last minute changes 
in your plan, project or ideas due to pressure from different quarters or due to 
some anticipated fear. Obstructions may crop up related to your foreign residence 
if applicable. You may also find obstacles in performing any auspicious work at 
home. Take care of your family and yourself as you may become susceptible to 
deception particularly during this phase. Avoid travel if possible as you may not 
get the desired pleasure or expected result out of it. 


Transit of Mars in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (12 Apr 2013 19:37:35 to 
23 May 2013 09:13:21) 

During this period, Mars will move through your second house from the Moon. 
This mostly suggests a period of loss. Take good care of your finances and focus 
on the safety of your valuables as you may suffer some losses due to theft during 
this period. 


You may also face a rutted phase at your work place due to several unpleasant 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 105 


STEVE JOBS (3 


happenings. Keep yourself away from arguments. Watch your words before 

uttering them to anybody. Your work or profession may see a very low phase 
during this time and some of you may even lose your position if not handled 
carefully. 


Beware of your old enemies and avoid creating new ones. You may develop the 
negative emotion of jealousy towards others during this time. Beware of any wrath 
of the government or the state authority. During this particular period, you are also 
likely to befriend some wicked people and get involved in quarrels with your 
family and dear ones. 


Transit of Sun in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (14 Apr 2013 01:28:42 to 
14 May 2013 22:21:15) 

The Sun's transit through the second house could prove to be a monetarily 
challenging for you. This period mostly portends absence of expected result or 
profit in trade and decline in wealth. If you deal in agriculture or trading, this 
period may bring you some setbacks. 


This is the time when you are more susceptible to fears than usual. You may feel 

at risk of being cheated, or experience anxiety for no apparent reason at all. As a 

result, you may find it difficult to handle ordinary affairs of your life as smoothly 
as you would otherwise do. 


You may find yourself not so happy and getting irritated easily even at your near 
and dear ones, and you may feel less compassion and flexible than usual. 


If you are susceptible to headaches or problems with your eyes, this is a time were 
the symptoms may surface. 


Transit of Mercury in the 2nd house from Natal Moon (28 Apr 2013 18:29:14 
to 13 May 2013 08:38:47) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your second house from the 

Moon. This signifies pecuniary gain and growth of income especially to those who 
deal in precious gems. 


This period is also likely to bring in happiness to you in the form of success in 
learning and attainment of knowledge. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 106 


STEVE JOBS (3 


This period also brings in the company of good people and gives you an 
opportunity to savour exotic culinary delights. 


However, for some, this particular period may bring in sufferings, bad name in the 
society and your enemy could also be more harmful than usual. This phase also 
indicates a probable loss of one of your relatives or a near friend. 


Transit of Mercury in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (13 May 2013 08:38:47 
to 28 May 2013 00:41:23) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your third house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a rough phase with your superiors. You may have to be extra 
careful while dealing with your superiors and employer. Avoid any kind of 
argument that may lead to differences of opinion and misunderstandings. 


Stay away from your known enemies and be careful of unknown ones. However, 
this period may also give you few new and worthy friends whom you would 


treasure for life. 


Handle your finances carefully as money needs extra attention during this period. 


Be cautious to avoid any loss of wealth. 


This journey of Mercury may make you suffer from depression, trouble in 
recollection of facts, mental stress and unexpected hassles in your endeavours. 


Transit of Sun in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (14 May 2013 22:21:15 to 
15 Jun 2013 04:55:49) 

This transit of the Sun brings a positive boost in your professional and personal 
life. 


You are likely to progress in your career with an increased recognition from the 
employer or authorities. There is an increased chance for promotion or better 
employment. You feel energetic and enthusiastic, and will experience a heightened 
ability to overcome obstacles, resolve problems, and overcome possible 
obstruction from adversaries. Your work is most likely to be successful and bear 
fruit. This will result in financial gains, and absence of money related worries 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 107 


STEVE JOBS (3 


You will do well socially, and feel successful, respected, and appreciated. 
Friends, family and acquaintances will love you and you have a chance to spend 
time with them. Your mind is at peace, and you feel happy and comfortable with 
your life. If you have children, you will enjoy parenthood. 


Your heightened mental and physical fitness will come along with sound health, 
and absence of diseases. 


Transit of Mars in the 3rd house from Natal Moon (23 May 2013 09:13:21 to 
5 Jul 2013 01:12:22) 

During this period, Mars will move through your third house from the Moon. This 
brings in good times and could be regarded especially well for financial gains. 
During this time, you are likely to make money in your trade and profession. You 
are also likely to acquire valuable ornaments during this phase. 


Work should be on a smooth sail and you are likely to succeed in matters of 
importance. Your new endeavours would also see success. If employed, you are 
likely to be promoted to a position of greater authority and honour. Your success 
would boost your self-confidence and strengthen your will power during this 
time. 


Health would remain good and you would shine with health and vigour. Your 
enthusiasm is likely to be at its top and you would be relieved from all the past 
confusion or obstacles. This time also sees you indulging in exotic culinary 
delights. 


Your enemies would be defeated and you would be at peace with your mind. 


Avoid any trip abroad as it may not bring in the desired result during this time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 4th house from Natal Moon (28 May 2013 00:41:23 
to 4 Aug 2013 21:36:18) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This signifies progress in every aspect of your life. On the personal front you are 
likely to be content with your life and you would succeed and gain in all your 
undertakings. Your status in the society will be heightened and you would be 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 108 


STEVE JOBS (3 


honoured. 


Financially this is a very good phase as this period indicates attainment of wealth 
in the form of money or property. You may also gain from your spouse or other 
members of the opposite sex. 


At home, this period indicates the arrival of a new member to the family. You are 
also likely to make your mother be proud of you. Your mere presence in the family 
may bring in success to the other members of the family. 


You may also make new friends who are highly educated and gentle people to be 
with. 


Transit of Jupiter in the 4th house from Natal Moon (31 May 2013 06:49:20 
to 19 Jun 2014 08:47:12) 

During this period, Jupiter will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This brings along worries for you. You may have to face a lot of hardship at the 
work front and your promotion is also likely to be delayed. Stay away from any 
kind of litigations and property related issues. 


Beware of your enemies and consciously avoid creating new ones at this time. Try 
and maintain cordial relationships with your relatives and friends. This period also 
sees you visiting a bereaved family. 


Financially this could be a trying time for you. Take measures to avoid 
unnecessary expenses and travel. 


Take care of your health and that of your mother. You may experience lacklustre 
and weakness during this period. It is better to stay away from pets and motor 
journeys as these might cause accidents during this phase. 


Hold high to your status in the society and maintain a smooth relationship with the 
members of the society, as there may occur an opposition. You are also likely to 
face humiliation and deep mental anguish particularly at this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 4th house from Natal Moon (15 Jun 2013 04:55:49 to 16 
Jul 2013 15:45:48) 
The period when the Sun travels through the fourth house may connote decline in 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 + 109 


STEVE JOBS (3 


your present social status and difficulty in maintaining your position at the 
workplace. It would be better to avoid any arguments with your seniors, mentors 
or well wishers during this time. 


This period could prove to be distressful, prone to experiencing grief and a time of 
misery. Your mind may have a hard time staying focussed on constructive 
thoughts, and instead be drawn to find an escape in something of an addictive 
nature, compensating for it's restless state. 


Married life during this particular period may become tense and there could also 
be a considerable decline in conjugal ecstasy. Don't let the disturbance in your 
mind project itself in creating any kind of quarrels with your family, or the peace 
at home may suffer. Overall, you may experience a dip in your happiness in the 
domestic and social realm. 


On the health front, your mental disturbance may reflect in some physical 
complaints or even ailments. 


Plans for journeys may face obstacles, and when you do travel you may have 
problems being comfortable, such as lack of food. 


Transit of Mars in the 4th house from Natal Moon (5 Jul 2013 01:12:22 to 19 
Aug 2013 01:59:33) 

During this period, Mars will move through your fourth house from the Moon. 
This brings in some hard times in a few of your life's segments. Most of you are 
likely to face a difficult time when it comes to managing your old enemies. You 
are also likely to encounter some new enemies who could also be from your own 
circle of family and friends. Some of you may also befriend some wicked people 
for whom you may suffer later. Keep an eye on your behaviour as it might become 
cruel during this phase. 


However, a few of you may also go in for some kind of settlement with your foes. 


Your health would require more attention than usual as this period makes you 
susceptible to developing fever and discomfort in the chest. Some of you may also 
suffer from diseases mostly related to the blood and the stomach. 


Mentally you are likely to remain worried and under a spell of grief. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 110 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Relationships would be demanding during this time. Make peace with your family 
and other relatives to avoid further sorrow during this phase. Hold on tightly to 
your honour and position in the society as well. 


Avoid any issues related to land and property especially during this time. 


Transit of Sun in the 5th house from Natal Moon (16 Jul 2013 15:45:48 to 17 
Aug 2013 00:07:56) 

This particular time mostly denotes a period of monetary challenges, and decline 
in mental peace. On the work front, you have to take extra care not to get into the 
bad books of your seniors. Avoid arguments with your employer or senior staff at 
your workplace. You may have to deal with some obstacles, which could be 
related to competitors, authorities or people you have unfriendly relations with. 


If you express your mental anxiety, you are likely to loose goodwill amongst 
friends and children. 


Health would require your attention, as you may feel sick and lethargic. Mental 
anguish, fear and restlessness may cast their spells on you, and make you're more 
prone to be offended by others. You may also become unstable in your 
temperament. 


Issues related to children may become a matter of concern for you. Avoid 
discussing anything at this time, as you are likely to cause disagreements between 
you and your son. 


Transit of Mercury in the 5th house from Natal Moon (4 Aug 2013 21:36:18 
to 21 Aug 2013 04:55:30) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your fifth house from the Moon. 
This mostly indicates a troubled personal life. During this particular period you 
must try and avoid getting involved in any kind of arguments with your wife, 
children and other members of the family. This is not a conducive period for you 
to be headstrong and opinionated while dealing with friends as well. Be extra 
careful while handling your loved ones. 


Health could be a matter of concern at this particular point of time. Take care of 
your food, as you are likely to suffer from heat stroke or body heat during this 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 111 


STEVE JOBS (3 


time. Do not undertake any activity, which would put a risk to your life. 
Mentally you may feel agitated and all drained out. 
This period may also give you some bodily pain leading to much discomfort. 


There may also occur troublesome and difficult circumstances in the work front. If 
you are a student, you need to be more determined and focused in your studies to 
avoid any kind of distraction. 


Transit of Sun in the 6th house from Natal Moon (17 Aug 2013 00:07:56 to 17 
Sep 2013 00:02:59) 

The period brings success in every aspect of life. You will find yourself 
overcoming obstacles easily, and it's a great time for successful problem solving. 
If anyone gets in your way, you will be able to deal with it easily, with a minimal 
of aggravation. 


It is a good time to complete any unfinished projects, and you are likely to succeed 
in whatever you put your efforts in. Financially you will also do well, and will find 
it easy to gain in general. 


Your mental and physical health will be excellent. Your body will stay healthy and 
your mind will be free of too much stress and anxiety. It's a time to enjoy comforts 
and social relations, especially friendship with people in powerful positions. 


There are good chances for promotion and honour, especially from authorities or 
government related people 


Transit of Mars in the 5th house from Natal Moon (19 Aug 2013 01:59:33 to 
5 Oct 2013 19:41:05) 

During this period, Mars will move through your fifth house from the Moon. This 
signifies a ruffled time. It would be a wise move to curtail your expenses as much 
as possible as this period sees you losing control on your finances and expenses. 


Take care of your children as they may suffer from sickness. Avoid any kind of 
unpleasantness between you and your son, if any, as this may give you agony. 


Handle your enemies with care and be cautious enough to avoid creating some new 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 112 


STEVE JOBS (3 


ones. Your enemies are likely to give you some more harassment during this 
particular time. 


Your health would require more attention during this period. You are likely to feel 
lacklustre, weak and feverish. Some of you may catch some diseases that would 
require proper diagnosis. Take care of your food habits as well. 


Some of you may also go through a personal behavioural change during this time. 
Some of you, though very unlikely of you, may become furious, apprehensive and 
very estranged from the near and dear ones. Some of you may even tend to lose 
their glory and fame during this phase. Development of some needless needs and 
urge to do some immoral deeds may land some of you in thick soup. Stay away 
from quarrel with family members during this time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 6th house from Natal Moon (21 Aug 2013 04:55:30 
to 6 Sep 2013 00:54:07) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your sixth house from the Moon. 
This indicates a mixed bag of positive and negative happenings. This particular 
period indicates success, stability and progress in your personal life. Your plans 
and projects will be successfully accomplished and you would also gain from the 
same. 


You are also likely to do better in the work front. You may expect progress in all 
your undertakings. 


This period also indicates your popularity in the society. Your status in the society 
is also likely to be heightened. 


Health should be fine and you would also have mental peace and contentment. 


However, for some, this movement of Mercury may bring in worries and troubles 
from enemies. 


You may have to be extra careful with your finances. Avoid any kind of 
arguments with your employer. 


It is better you stay away from activities involving risk to your health. However, 
body heat may trouble you during this particular period. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 113 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Transit of Mercury in the 7th house from Natal Moon (6 Sep 2013 00:54:07 
to 25 Sep 2013 06:33:43) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your seventh house from the 
Moon. This may bring in some trying time for you both mentally and physically. 
This period indicates illness. You may have to experience physical pain and bodily 
weakness during this phase. 


Mentally you might become restless and anguished. A rise in mental perplexity 
and misunderstanding with the family is also indicated during this time. You may 
have to be extra careful to avoid arguments and communication gaps while dealing 
with your spouse and children. Take care to avoid any situation where you may 
have to face humiliation. 


You could feel more hassled as you are likely to face hurdles in your endeavours. 
Travel plans, if any, may not yield the expected result and could be troublesome. 


Transit of Sun in the 7th house from Natal Moon (17 Sep 2013 00:02:59 to 17 
Oct 2013 12:00:09) 

The Sun's position in the seventh house gives a tendency for travel, but such 
travel will tend to be tiring and troubled. 


You need to be extra careful not to challenge your seniors or superiors at the 
workplace, as they are likely to oppose you, resulting in enmity and humiliation. 
Even the relationship with your partner and neighbours may be a bit strained at 
this time. 


Your level of enthusiasm may be at a low, resulting in an inability to overcome 
obstacles that come in the way of achieving your dream objectives or goals during 
this particular time. This period may take you through some set backs in your 
professional activities, will a general lack of progress and success. 


Your health would require your care and attention, as you are more susceptible to 
health problems, particularly discomfort in the stomach, blood related problems, 
fever, and fatigue. Be extra cautious with your diet to avoid indigestion, food 
poisoning and food allergies. The health of your wife and children may also be 
under pressure. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 114 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Transit of Mercury in the 8th house from Natal Moon (25 Sep 2013 06:33:43 
to 1 Dec 2013 10:04:37) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly signifies wealth and success. It indicates success in all your work and 
projects. During this period you may expect financial stability and gain in 
financial ventures. 


Socially you would see a rise in your status. People would respect you more and 
your popularity would increase. 


This period may also let you acquire a comfortable lifestyle. You are also likely to 
gain happiness from your children. You are likely to receive happiness with a 
newborn member in the family. Your children would also remain happy and 
content during this particular period. 


This period sees a more alert and clever you. You would be able to use your 
intuition and intellect to make right decisions. 


Your enemies are likely to be defeated and will be mellowed down by your aura. 
Moreover, you may also expect help from all the sides. 


However, your health would require your attention, as you are susceptible to fall 
sick. Take care of your food intake and keep your spirits high to keep gloominess 
and unnecessary fears at bay. 


Transit of Mars in the 6th house from Natal Moon (5 Oct 2013 19:41:05 to 26 
Nov 2013 19:34:16) 

During this period, Mars will move through your sixth house from the Moon. This 
denotes good times. This period would see you gaining wealth, acquiring gold, 
corals, copper and reaping unprecedented profit in your metal and other 
businesses. If employed, you may expect that much awaited promotion and 
honour at your work place. Most of you would see success in all your 
undertakings. 


The improvement in your overall financial condition would make you feel secure, 
comfortable and happy. You would also be able to live in with peace in mind and 
a sense of fearlessness would prevail in you. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ° 115 


STEVE JOBS (3 


This is also the time to win over your enemies. You may also expect ceasefire of 
your previous quarrels. If you are caught up in any court case, you may expect a 
judgement that would favour you. Most of your enemies would withdraw and 
victory would be yours. You are also likely to command more respect and honour 
in the society. Some of you would also perform charitable deeds at this time. 


Health would be fine during this time. You would get rid of all your previous 
ailments. 


Transit of Sun in the 8th house from Natal Moon (17 Oct 2013 12:00:09 to 16 
Nov 2013 11:48:34) 

The Sun's journey through the eighth house could incur loss and bodily suffering 
in general. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary expenses and avoid making 
important decisions about finances. 


Support from your community, family members and even partner may seem 
absent to you. There could be a change in the work you do, possibility forcing you 
to let go of your current position, or there could be a lot of travel, which may turn 
out stressful. 


Consciously avoid getting involved in any kind of quarrel with your enemies or 
anyone else, as it is likely to be totally fruitless. 


Take care of your health as you may develop physical ailments like stomach 
disorder, blood pressure and piles, causing you discomfort. You may develop 
needless fear; especially fear of death or loss of honour, meaningless anxiety and a 
restless mind during this phase. It is wise to avoid activities that involve any kind 
of risks with your life and that of your family. A relative's issue may come up 
unexpectedly causing you some worries. 


Transit of Sun in the 9th house from Natal Moon (16 Nov 2013 11:48:34 to 16 
Dec 2013 02:27:51) 

Sun in the ninth house has some significant results in your life. This period could 
mean blame games, change of place and lack of mental peace. 


Take extra care at your work place to avoid disappointing your employer. You 
may feel humiliated and chances are that some false charges would be imposed on 
you. Avoid any tricky situation during this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 116 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Financially this period could be taxing on you. You may also find it difficult to 
recover pending dues from others. Be extra careful to avoid unnecessary 
expenses. Misunderstandings, disagreements may occur between you and your 
teacher, or spiritual/religious leader. Opinions of your family and friends may 
clash with that of yours leading to fights and discontentment. 


Health would require your attention as you may develop physical and mental 
discomforts at this time. You may also feel more tired and mentally depressed than 
usual. 


However, you may also consider doing some virtuous deeds, as you are more 
likely to accomplish this successfully. Travel would be on the cards. 


Transit of Mars in the 7th house from Natal Moon (26 Nov 2013 19:34:16 to 4 
Feb 2014 14:25:03) 

During this period, Mars will move through your seventh house from the Moon. 
This brings in a trying time mostly in matters of health and relationships. 


You may suffer from excess mental worry due to a health problem to yourself, 
your spouse and your near and dear ones. You are likely to feel fatigued and 
susceptible of developing eye discomfort, stomach ache and discomfort in your 
chest. You may also have to take care of your spouse's health. You and your 
spouse are also likely to develop deep mental anxiety during this time. 


Most of you are likely to develop enmity with some noble person. Avoid any 
misunderstanding that may crop up due to hypothetical differences between you 
and your spouse. If not handled tactfully, this may lead to a big quarrel between 
the two of you. Make peace with your friends and dear ones. You are also likely to 
be put to anguish by your kinships. Watch your behaviour, as you are susceptible 
of using bad words and being wrathful towards your siblings or children. 


Your finances would need a tight watch as well. Some of you may lose some of 
your riches due to your unnecessary indulgence in a competition. Curtail your 
spending sprees and ensure a steady incoming of good food and clothing during 
this period. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 ¢ 117 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Transit of Mercury in the 9th house from Natal Moon (1 Dec 2013 10:04:37 
to 20 Dec 2013 20:56:49) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your ninth house from the Moon. 
This signifies sufferings from diseases. This particular phase may bring in 
obstruction and interruptions in your field of work. Take care to keep your respect 
and position in the workplace intact. Make sure you don't have to regret any of 
your actions done at this time. 


Watch out for probable hurdles before venturing into something new. 


Mentally you may feel hassled, over burdened, and unstable due to several 
reasons. 


Beware of your enemies as they could harm you more during this particular phase. 
Avoid any arguments with your family and relatives as this may lead to 
unnecessary quarrels. 


During this period you are susceptible to become irritable and may try to find out 
faults in matters related to religion, common belief etc. This period may also 
demand more labour from you in order to accomplish any task undertaken. 
However, a feeling of lack of interest may stop you from working hard. 


Avoid undertaking any long distance travel, as it is likely to be troublesome and 
may not give you the desired result. Take care of your food habits and try and keep 
yourself in a positive frame of mind. 


Transit of Sun in the 10th house from Natal Moon (16 Dec 2013 02:27:51 to 
14 Jan 2014 13:12:45) 

This is a favourable period. It denotes gains, promotions, progress and success in 
all your endeavours. 


You may expect a promotion at the work place. Favour of your seniors, honour 
from the authorities and even more opportunities could be expected during this 
time. 


This period also denotes success in your endeavour and favourable culmination of 
any stuck up deals. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 118 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Socially you may expect an even more respectable position. Your social circle 
will get widened, meaning more positive and gainful interactions particularly with 
the opposite sex, honour from your circle of friends and acquaintances. You may 
even expect to be honoured by the highest of authorities. You could expect more 
gains from unexpected quarters as well. 


Your health will be at its best during this time. Overall happiness would surround 
you. 


Transit of Mercury in the 10th house from Natal Moon (20 Dec 2013 
20:56:49 to 8 Jan 2014 13:18:29) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your tenth house from the Moon. 
This denotes contentment and good times for you. You would be happy and 
successful in all your endeavours. Professionally a very good period could be 
expected as well. You would be able to finish off the work given to you 
successfully on time. 


Happiness at home is also indicated during this time. You could also expect to 
meet someone interesting during this time. Some of you may also expect to spend 
some passionate time with someone new of the opposite sex. Possibility of gain 
from this person is also indicated during this particular time. 


Financially, this could be a good time for you. The success in your endeavours 
will be gainful for you and you may expect other monetary gain as well. 


This period may also bring in a rise in your status in the society. You are likely to 
be honoured and may command more respect in the society. You may become 
socially more active and may get involved in social welfare work. 


Mentally peace and calmness is indicated. Your enemies are likely to be defeated 
with ease and you would find calmness in life during this particular time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 11th house from Natal Moon (8 Jan 2014 13:18:29 
to 26 Jan 2014 23:51:31) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eleventh house from the 
Moon. This indicates achievement and monetary gain. This period is likely to 
bring in financial gains for you. You may expect to receive higher monetary gains 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 119 


STEVE JOBS (3 


from different sources. Your personal endeavours, businesses and investments are 
likely to bring in higher financial gains and more profits. If you are a professional 
or employed, you are likely to be more successful during this particular period. 
You are likely to prosper in your field of activity especially during this time. 


Health should be good. You are likely to be at peace with yourself. You may 
become more soft-spoken and very cordial in your behaviour. 


At home, you may expect a good time. Your spouse and children will also be 
happy and cordial. You may also expect to get some favourable news. You are 
likely to be surrounded by material comfort. 


Socially this is a good phase as well. You would be able to command more 
respect in the society. Pleasant company of the opposite sex would also surround 
you. Your wit and pleasant nature would also make people flock around you. 


Transit of Sun in the 11th house from Natal Moon (14 Jan 2014 13:12:45 to 
13 Feb 2014 02:12:57) 

This transit of the Sun mostly means monetary gains, improved economic and 
social status. 


This is a suitable time for you to approach your boss/employer for any favors such 
as asking for a promotion. You will rise in your position at the work place, and 
get unexpected benefits from your superiors or authorities. 


You could also expect profit in trade and attainment of wealth during this time and 
even gains from your friends. 


Your social prestige would see a rise and you would gain more honour in your 
neighbourhood. 


Health would remain fine during this time and your sound health could be a happy 
occasion for the family. 


This period also signifies the commencement of some spiritual constructive deed 
at your home leading to even more happiness. Merrymaking, distribution and 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 120 


STEVE JOBS (3 


indulgence of good food and sweets at home could also be expected during this 
time. Overall, a comfortable period is denoted for you and your family leading to 
familial peace during this time. 


Transit of Mercury in the 12th house from Natal Moon (26 Jan 2014 23:51:31 
to 18 Feb 2014 17:34:22) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your twelfth house from the 
Moon. This denotes expenses for you. You may have to spend more than expected 
in order to live a comfortable life. Stay away from litigations as this may also 
cause some loss of money. Moreover, you may also have to work extra hard to 
accomplish any of the task undertaken by you. 


Beware of your enemies and stay out of their way in order to avoid any 
humiliation. Hold on to your respect and try and keep your honour in the society. 


You could be mentally disturbed due to several reasons. You are susceptible to 
wotries and restlessness during this particular time. You are also likely to be 
distressed and feel discontented during this phase. 


You are likely to lose interest in food and conjugal life. A feeling of sickness and 
suffering may trouble you during this particular point of time. 


Transit of Mars in the 8th house from Natal Moon (4 Feb 2014 14:25:03 to 25 
Mar 2014 09:51:25) 

During this period, Mars will move through your eighth house from the Moon. 
This mostly denotes physical danger to you. This period demands a strict 
watchfulness on any and all the developments related to your life, health and 
physique. Stay clear from diseases and all kind of addictions to maintain sound 
health. Some of you are likely to develop blood related disorders like, anaemia, 
haemorrhage, deficiency diseases etc. 


This period also needs you to stay away from weapons and disguised foe. Avoid 
undertaking any task that might prove to be life risking for you. 


Finances would require proper vigilance during this particular period. Most of you 
are likely to face some steep decline in your finances if not handled carefully. 
However, avoid going for any loan and try and keep yourself debt free. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 © 121 


STEVE JOBS (3 


At work, you may have to put in extra effort to see success in your endeavours. 
Keep up your hope and work on. Hold on to your position and honour at work, as 
this low phase shall also pass. 


Most of you are also likely to go on foreign trips and may even have to stay away 
from your family for a considerable time. 


Transit of Sun in the 12th house from Natal Moon (13 Feb 2014 02:12:57 to 
14 Mar 2014 23:06:21) 

This particular period signifies monetary challenges. You would have to take extra 
care while handling finances during this period. 


If employed, you may find yourself having a bit of a hard time with your 
employer. He will tend to not appreciate your work and you may feel a threat of 
being given less responsibilities or less pay. Do not get disheartened if your efforts 
and hard work do not give you the desired result at this time. 


If you are into trade, you may have to go through a few setbacks. Be careful in 
your dealings. 


This period may also take you through a rough weather socially. Avoid arguments 
with anybody, as quarrels with friends and seniors could not be ruled out during 


this phase. 


You may also have to go on long trips, which may not bring in the desired result. 


Avoid activities that involve physical risks and make safety your first priority. 


Take care of your health and that of your family during this time as you may 
develop fever, stomach trouble and some discomfort in the eyes. Discontentment 
during this particular time may affect peace and harmony at home. 


Transit of Mercury in the 11th house from Natal Moon (18 Feb 2014 
17:34:22 to 12 Mar 2014 09:37:04) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your eleventh house from the 
Moon. This indicates achievement and monetary gain. This period is likely to 
bring in financial gains for you. You may expect to receive higher monetary gains 
from different sources. Your personal endeavours, businesses and investments are 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 122 


STEVE JOBS (3a 


likely to bring in higher financial gains and more profits. If you are a professional 
or employed, you are likely to be more successful during this particular period. 
You are likely to prosper in your field of activity especially during this time. 


Health should be good. You are likely to be at peace with yourself. You may 
become more soft-spoken and very cordial in your behaviour. 


At home, you may expect a good time. Your spouse and children will also be 
happy and cordial. You may also expect to get some favourable news. You are 
likely to be surrounded by material comfort. 


Socially this is a good phase as well. You would be able to command more 
respect in the society. Pleasant company of the opposite sex would also surround 
you. Your wit and pleasant nature would also make people flock around you. 


Transit of Mercury in the 12th house from Natal Moon (12 Mar 2014 
09:37:04 to 4 Apr 2014 07:32:17) 

During this period, Mercury will move through your twelfth house from the 
Moon. This denotes expenses for you. You may have to spend more than expected 
in order to live a comfortable life. Stay away from litigations as this may also 
cause some loss of money. Moreover, you may also have to work extra hard to 
accomplish any of the task undertaken by you. 


Beware of your enemies and stay out of their way in order to avoid any 
humiliation. Hold on to your respect and try and keep your honour in the society. 


You could be mentally disturbed due to several reasons. You are susceptible to 
worries and restlessness during this particular time. You are also likely to be 
distressed and feel discontented during this phase. 


You are likely to lose interest in food and conjugal life. A feeling of sickness and 
suffering may trouble you during this particular point of time. 


Transit of Sun in the 1st house from Natal Moon (14 Mar 2014 23:06:21 to 14 
Apr 2014 07:36:21) 
The Sun's transit through the first house has a noticeable influence on your work 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 123 


STEVE JOBS (3 


as well as personal life. There could be a permanent or temporary change of 
place, difficulty at the work place, or a ruffled time with your superiors at work or 
your employer. You need to take extra care to avoid getting a bad reputation at the 
workplace, as you may feel more irritable, tired and prone to have disagreements. 


To complete the tasks on hand or to meet your set objectives may take more effort 
than usual. There is a heightened chance for going on long trips, which may not 
bring the desired result, or may turn out not to have been necessary in the first 
place. 


During this period you could feel more tired than usual. Your health would need 
extra attention as you are susceptible to stomach problems, disturbed bowel 
movement, discomfort in the eyes and heart related problems during this time. 
Avoid activities that are physically risky, as there is a tendency toward accidents. 


On the home front, you need to put extra attention on avoiding disputes among 
family and friends, and make sure you get the extra rest to minimise irritability and 
mental tension. Disagreements may crop up between you and your spouse, and 
may affect your married life. Overall harmony and peace at home could also be 
challenged during this time. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 « 124 


STEVE JOBS (3 


Dasha Interpretations 


Moon Maha Dasha: 17 Jun 2007 to 25 Apr 2017 


Interpretation of the Maha Dasha of the Moon 


General Interpretations 


General effects which are felt during the Maha Dasha of the Moon are as follows — 

— Interest in mantras and Vedas will increase and there may be faith in elders, teachers and 
gods. 

— Happiness and a good position may be attained due to the favour of those in authority. 

— One may enjoy the pleasing company of young females and the joy of acquiring wealth, 
land, flowers, incense and ornaments. 

— One may attain skill at many arts. 

— Status and fame in society may increase. 

— Modesty, benevolence and other good habits will increase. 

— The mind may be lively and restless. 

— The birth of a daughter is possible. 

— Water related work, gardening and agriculture will be profitable. 

— One may wish to travel. 

— If the Moon is weak, then physical pain may be caused by cough and gastric ailments. 

— Laziness may increase and one may feel uneasiness due to sleeplessness, headaches and 
mental agitation. 

— Good people may be opposistional and there may be a loss of wealth. 

— There may be quarrels and arguments with dear ones. 

— The mind may not be interested in good deeds. 


Specific Interpretations 


Interpretations based on the condition of the planet and other influences in the birth chart and 
divisional charts are as follows — 

— During this period there may be a gain of wealth and friendly relations with those in high 
places. 

— Success in work or in service may be attained. 

— One may acquire water borne products and strange clothes. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon there may be many types of financial losses. 

— One may have to eat contaminated food or food which may not be to one’s liking. 
One may have a bad employer and may suffer mental tension, eye ailments and face defeat 
in conflicts. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, education causes fame, happiness, victory and 
monetary gains are attained. 

— The number of children and servants increases. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, cough, cold and water borne diseases may cause 
physical pain. 

— Mental anxiety and restlessness may cause unhappiness. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 125 


STEVE JOBS (3 


— Relatives may oppose you, and there may be anxiety and problems related to wealth, spouse and 
children. 

— There may be fear due to water and opportunities of travelling or migrating abroad. 

— There may be some inconvenience related to food. 

— Mother or some maternal relative may expire. 

— During the Maha Dasha of the Moon, the person may gain financially from water borne products. 

— Spouse and children bring happiness. 

— Enemies will be destroyed and prudence may increase. 

— A lot of money will be spent on good deeds. 


Moon-Saturn : 25 Aug 2011 to 17 Mar 2013 


Effects of Antar Dasha of Saturn in the Maha Dasha of Moon 


Antar Dasha of Saturn in the Maha Dasha of Moon - 

- One may be unhappy due to mothers sufferings. 

- Work may be delayed, unhappiness may be caused by harm, fear, mourning and suspicion. 

- One may have bad addictions and pain due to gastric problems. 

- Fear due to fire, theft, harsh speech, conflicts with opponents and insult may 
prevail. 

- One's wife, child or brother may be ailing and their pain may cause unhappiness. 

- Effects like birth of a son, friendship, gain of wealth and property, profits in 
business with the help of Sudras, increase in agricultural production, gains from 
son, riches and glory by the beneficence of the king (government). 

- Effects like visits to holy places, bathing in holy rivers, etc., the creation of 
troubles by many people and distress from enemies. 

- Effects like enjoyments, and gains of wealth some times. 

- Opposition or quarrels with wife and children at other times. 

- There will be physical distress. 

- The remedial measures to be adopted for obtaining relief from the evil effects, are 
Mrityunjaya Japa, giving in charity a black cow or female buffalo. 


Moon-Saturn-Jupiter : 31 Dec 2012 to 17 Mar 2013 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of Jupiter in the Antar Dasha of Saturn, there may be domestic breakdown 
due to a female, and the inability to look after the family. 
— Conflicts and mental unrest prevails. 


Moon-Mercury : 17 Mar 2013 to 9 Aug 2014 


Effects of Antar Dasha of Mercury in the Maha Dasha of Moon 


Antar Dasha of Mercury in the Maha Dasha of Moon - 
- One may acquire education & intelligence, enjoy the company of scholars, progress in 
business or attain a high position. 
- One may attain wealth from one's maternal relatives, acquire land, vehicles and 
increase one's wealth. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 126 


STEVE JOBS (3 


- One may become famous due to one's liberal nature. 

- Effects like acquisition of wealth, recognition by the king (government), gain of 
clothes etc., discussions on Shastras (Vedic scriptures), gain of knowledge from 
society with learned and holy people, enjoyments, birth of children, satisfaction, 
profits in business, acquisition of conveyance and ornaments, etc. 

- Effects like marriage, oblations ('Yagya'), charities, performance of religious 
rites, close relations with the king (government), social contacts with men of 
learning, acquisition of pearls, corals, Mani (jewels), conveyances, clothes, 
ornaments, good health, affections, enjoyments, drinking of Soma Rasa, and other 
tasty syrups, etc. 

- Pains in the body, loss in agricultural ventures imprisonment, distress to wife and 
children. 

- There will be fear of fever. 

- The remedial measures to be adopted for obtaining relief from the evil effects, are 
recitation of Vishnu Sahasranam and giving a goat in charity. 


Moon-Mercury-Mercury : 17 Mar 2013 to 28 May 2013 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mercury in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, there may be an increase in 
intelligence, and gain of education. 

— Wealth, clothes, great happiness increase. 

— There is the acquisition of gold and jewels. 


Moon-Mercury-Ketu : 28 May 2013 to 27 Jun 2013 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of Ketu in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, there may be consumption of spoilt 
food, and stomach ailments. 
- There may be ailments and ailments related to eyes, blood and acidity. 


Moon-Mercury-Venus : 27 Jun 2013 to 20 Sep 2013 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of Venus in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, one may benefit from the northern 
direction, but there may be losses due to animals. 
— One may gain authority in the royal court, or place of importance. 


Moon-Mercury-Sun : 20 Sep 2013 to 15 Oct 2013 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Sun in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, there may be a decrease in 
power. 

— Ailments and physical hardships increase. 

— A State of mental unrest may prevail. 


Moon-Mercury-Moon : 15 Oct 2013 to 27 Nov 2013 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 127 


STEVE JOBS (3 


— In the Pratyantar Dasha of the Moon in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, one may acquire a woman, 
wealth and money. 

— A daughter may be born. 

— Tremendous money may be gained. 

— Everywhere there will be brotherhood and good company. 


Moon-Mercury-Mars : 27 Nov 2013 to 27 Dec 2013 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of Mars in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, one may acquire intelligence and 
wealth, and be religiously inclined. 

— There may be pain due to fire and thieves. 

— One may acquire red clothes. 

— Weapons may cause suffering. 


Moon-Mercury-Rahu : 27 Dec 2013 to 13 Mar 2014 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of Rahu in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, there may be conflict with women, 
and sudden fear. 
— There is fear from weapons. 


Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : 13 Mar 2014 to 20 May 2014 


—In the Pratyantar Dasha of Jupiter in the Antar Dasha of Mercury, one may acquire either a position 
of authority. 

— Kings or important persons may be honored. 

— One's education and prudence increase. 


Parashara's Light - PE © GeoVision Software Inc. Licensed to NEELAKANTAN ES. HP3 * 128 


