ASHTAKAVARGA 


With Translation in English 
and Explanatory Notes 


By 
CHANDULAL SAKARALAL PATEL, B. A. 
and 


C. A. SUBRAMANIA ATYAR, B.Sc. 


Sole Distributors : 
Messrs. Gopal Narayen & Co. 
Princess Street, Kalbadevi, 
BOMBAY 2 


Price Rs. 10; Sh. 20; $ 3. 


Aut Ricuts Reservep 


Frrast Impression 1957 


Printed by S. B. DHawALe at the Karnatak Printing Press, Chira Bazar, 
Bombay 2, and published by CHANDULAL SAKARALAL PATEL., B.A., 
Navnitnagar, Haveli Road, Ghatkopar, Bombay-39. 


FOREWORD 


To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose 
under the heaven :”—So says Solomon the ancient sage, and the 
truth of these words of wisdom cannot be better comprehended 
than through the science of astrology, for the aim of the science 
is to guide humanity by pointing out periods of prosperity and 
adversity in individual as well as national life and by defining the 
various stages in the evolution of man. By the beacon light 
of the stars the science helps us in locating the time and 
place of any event and depicting also the nature of the event. 
Thus it plays an important part in the life of the humar race, and 
naturally from times immemorial wise men of every country have 
been trying to discover various methods for calculating the time 
factor underlying every “season” of human life and for foretell- 
ing the quality of the harvest of the season. 

Ic is well-nigh impossible to say exactly when and where 
astrology had its origin. But we may safely assume that the birth 
of the science was almost synchronous with the birth of the human 
race, for otherwise we cannot explain why we come across traces 
of ancient people lisping in the language of the stars in almost 
every nation that has some claim to high antiquity. As for India, it 
may be a moot point whether she rocked the cradle of astrology, 
but no one cam deny the fact that she has contributed a very large 
amount of knowledge to promote the growth of the science. This 
great heritage of the past, or at least a part of it, is being slowly 
re-discovered through the efforts of research scholars, and I am 
glad to say that one such welcome attempt to recover an ancient 
treasure from the hands of all-devouring Time has been success- 
fully made by my friends Shri C. S. Patel and Shri C. A. S. Aiyar 
in compiling and publishing this treatise om the Ashtakavarga 
system. 

The authors of the treatise have given us a full and lucid expla- 
nation of the principles and the modus operandi of the Ashtaka- 
varga in the light of the knowledge garnered from every possible 
source, with the result that what they are presenting us today is 
not merely the re-hash of some moth-eaten Sanskrit tome but a 
critical compendium of all available information on the subject. 


iv 


I am sure that no discerning student will fail to appreciate the 
labour and critical acumen that the authors have brought to bear 
on this work. 


Natal astrology consists of two distinct sections. The first 
section enables us to form a general idea of the sum-total of 
planetary influences scattered through the different houses of the 
horoscope, what the stars have in store for the native by way of 
success and failure, pleasure and pain, fame and notoriety. The 
second section mainly deals with the time factor governing the 
planetary and stellar influences concealed in the birthchart, the 
Paka-kala (moment of maturity), as it is technically known, of the 
promise of the birthchart. The Paka-kala is generally deduced from 
the periods and sub-periods (Dasas and Antardasas) of planets. 
There is an overwhelming number of Dasa systems propounded in 
ancient works, but most of them have been consigned to oblivion. 
Of the three or four systems that still hold the field, che Vimshot- 
tari system is the most popular. Next comes the transit system 
which is equally popular, or even more so, among both Indian 
and European astrologers as a simple key to the timing of events. 
It is very often used quite independently, but sometimes it is also 
applied in combination with the ruling Dasa or current directions. 
The more philosophic among Indian astrologers make a subtle 
distinction between the function of the Dasa system and that of 
the transit system. The current Dasa and Antara, they say, show 
what we have to reap from the seeds of our past Karma while 
the transits denote the Karma we are sowing for our next life. 
Be that as it may, there is no doubt whatsoever that transits are 
the most facile and indispensable part of the astrologer’s armoury 
in India as well as abroad. 


Unfortunately the method of considering transits that is in 
vogue today is extremely puerile and shallow, to say the least! 
All that our astrologer wants to know is the sign occupied by the 
Moon at birth. He does not care to inquire what Navamsa or 
Decanate, much less the exact degree, is occupied by the Moon. 
Nor does he care to consider what house is tenanted by the Moon 
or by the transiting planet, for he is blissfully ignorant of the 
importance of the house positions of planets! But the acme of 
absurdity is perhaps reached when on the entry of any planet into 
a new sign he presages a change of fortune, for better or worse, 


Vv 


for every Tom, Dick and Harry ! These Moon-sigr or moonshine 
forecasts, if given in writing, usually end up with the stock phrase 
“ Shubbam bhavatu,” God bless you,—or in other words, God 
save the client! If the reader is inclined to think that I am 
drawing an unnecessarily gloomy picture of the present plight of 
Indian astrology, let him browse through the pages of some of 
our popular astrological magazines and he will be convinced of 
the truth of my remarks. But, then, the trouble is that if the 
teader is familiar only with the horoscopy of the benighted 
westerners, he is bound to get bewildered within the mystic maze 
that passes for the horoscope in our magazines! He will be left 
wondering whether the figure is to be read from left to right or 
right to left or upside-down ! 


It appears that some of our ancient astrologers were quite 
aware of the superficiality and absurdity of depending solely on 
the Moonsign in judging the effects of transits. Thus, for in- 
stance, Gunakara who flourished some time about 1496 A.D. 
writes in his Horamakaranda — 


qRrat WALI HIT TAG HS TATA THA | 

ant deadyat Gee AaetaaHTEAT Ute 

aa ftaa: Masd ai earsrena aaareriea | 

aa aa A Gar: seat: Raat a 8 Aas Aala | 2 Ul 
BANSUAMAIMNSA G4: MAST Aaa Waa | 
galt ai a Aaaak aqeaikaras ene ear I! 3 I 


The effects of transiting planets that have been delineated by 
the ancient Acharyas on the basis of the Moon-sign would be expe- 
tienced in different ways even by persons born under the same 
Moon-sign or the same Nakshatra, and this difference arises owing 
to the difference im the Lagna (rising sign) and the distance of 
planets from the Lagna. (1) 


The sign occupied by the Moon at birth is known as the 
‘Janma-rasi (birth sign). But every sign that is occupied by some 
‘planet or other is capable of producing certain effects, and the 
Lagna is also equally potent in chis respect.(2) 


Thus the native responds to the influence of eight signs — 
seven pertaining to the planets and one to the Lagna. Every 
planetary influence, therefore, must be judged not only indepen- 


‘Vi 


dently, but also through the interaction of planets. This system 
of calculating and judging precisely the influence of planets is 
called the Ashtakavarga system.(3) 


These remarks of Gunakara ought to serve as an eye-opener to 
all astrologers of the present day who are sacrificing accuracy to 
simplicity and making a travesty of the real teaching of the 
ancients, Let them ask themselves whether the ancient teachers 
were just indulging in some childish fancy when they devised. 
elaborate schemes of judging planetary strength or split every 
degree of the zodiac into its fractional parts, and let them contrast 
the ways of the ancients with the perfunctory manner in which 
they themselves deal with horoscopes. 


The Ashtakavarga system appears to have originated in the 
very remote past. Acharya Varahamihira (circa 500 A.D.) mentions 
. it rather casually, as if ic had already become an integral part of 
the standard teaching on astrology in his day, not requiring a 
very detailed exposition. It is quite likely, therefore, that the 
system originated some centuries before Varaha, perhaps a couple 
of centuries even before Christ. 


The system is, no doubt, rather intricate and laborious, and 
those shallow practitioners who feel that predictions ought to. 
come trippingly to the tongue as soon as one knows the Moon- 
sign or the Moon’s Nakshatra have not been able to appreciate its. 
importance. Consequently it has fallen into disuse in recent years,. 
though at times some practitioners do add a series of bald Ashtaka- 
varga tables, without a word of interpretation, in order to pro- 
duce an awe-inspiring scroll and fleece the gullible client! Let 
us hope that the authors of the present volume would succeed in: 
reviving and popularizing this half-forgotten system of the ancients. 
and earn the credit for setting at least one part of the house of 
astrology in order. 


The careful student will find that the Ashtakavarga system,. 
as expounded in this volume, provides certain keys for judging 
the strength of houses and planets, and for evaluating the potency 
of transits on the basis of the eightfold division of the bhavas 
(houses) of the horoscope. The authors have indeed done a great 
service to the cause of astrology by bringing together all available 
information on the subject in this omnibus volume. The example. 


vil 


of ceaseless and painstaking research that they have thus set before 
the younger generation of scholars is certainly worth emulating. 


In conclusion, I sincerely wish that this valuable work should 
be accorded a warm welcome by all earnest students, Indian as 
well as foreign, and I pray that the Divine Power that inspired 
the authors to undertake this project may grant them further op- 
portunities to explore other promising fields of astrological 
research. . 


YESHWANT K. PRADHAN 
5th February, 1957 


AUTHORS’ NOTE 


The Ashtakavarga is recognized as an outstanding system of 
prediction among the several systems advocated in the standard 
works on astrology. It has beer commended as the best and the 
most indispensable key, so that all predictions have to be made 
only after a consideration of the Ashtakavarga. But the treatment 
of the system — its methods of application and interpretation — 
found in the existing works is not exhaustive and thorough enough 
for students to understand, which is a serious deficiency in the 
outfit of the modern astrologer. The present work consisting 
of about 950 verses and treating exclusively of the Ashtakavarga 
and its practical application is an attempt to fulfil this long-felt 
desideratum. The work contains in one volume materials collected 
mainly from available standard works on astrology, the last two 
chapters being based on manuscripts hitherto unpublished. The 
plan of treatment is, we hope, quite suitable from the student’s point 
of view : The original Sanskrit verses come first ; then follows their 
translation in English with copious explanatory notes and com- 
ments, and an example horoscope has been worked out in detail 
so as to give a clear idea of the application of the system. The 
idea of computing Ashtakavarga on the basis of the Bhavakundali, 
in preference to the usual Janmakundali, first suggested by Shri 
Uttamram Mayaram Thakar in his Gujarati work Jyotish Vijnan 
Ane Laghu Parasari, has been adopted for reasons given in the 
Prologue and the text. The book is also furnished with appen- 
dices containing the minimum details necessary for the Ashtaka- 
varga calculations (except, however, the calculation of the Shad- 
varga strength which is beyond the scope of this book). An index 
to verses, and to the subject matter, a bibliography and a glossary 
of the terms frequently used are also included. A noteworthy 
addition is the Sarvachanchachakra (p. 64) which will prove use- 
ful im connection with Chaps. XVI and XVII, and the Ashtaka- 
varga Ayurdaya calculations in Chap. XV. 

We wish to express our grateful thanks to Shri Yeshwant K. 
Pradhan, Jyotishacharya, for the encouragement and co-operation 
that he has given us while this work was in progress, as also for 
writing the Foreword ; to Shri Amritlal L. Shah, Hon. Secretary, 


ix 


Bombay Astrological Society, for his unstinted help ; to Prof. N. 
A. Gore, M.A., Dip. Lib, (Bom.), Librarian, Asiatic Society of 
Bombay, for procuring transcripts of manuscript copies of the 
Jatakatilaka and the Bribatyavanajataka and correcting the Sanskrit 
text ia proof form ; to Shri K. S. Sivaramakrishna Iyer, B.A., for 
his guidance and interpretation of the difficult passages in the 
text ; and to Shri Pranjivan Amin and Shri Anant Pandya, M.A., 
for their unsolicited help in correcting the proofs. 

We also wish to acknowledge our indebtedness to the Asiatic 
Society of Bombay, for permission to publish the chapter on 
Ashtakavarga from the manuscript of the Jatckatilaka of Kamala- 
kar ; to the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Poona, and the 
Oriental Institute, Baroda, for supplying the photostat copies of the 
chapter on Ashtakavarga from the manuscript of the Bribatyavana- 
jataka of Meenaraja and permitting its use ; to the Janmabhumi 
Panchanga Karyalaya and the Bombay Astrological Society for 
helping us in many ways ; and to numerous friends and well-wishers 
who prefer to remain anonymous, for their constant support and 
co-operation. 

Any suggestions or comments regarding necessary additions or 
improvements to be made in this work shall be gladly received and 
considered for the next edition. We shall consider our labour 
amply rewarded if this work proves helpful in enabling students 
to make predictions with greater confidence and greater suc- 
cess than at present and brightening the name of the much- 
maligned science of astrology. 


C. S. PATEL. 
C. A. S. ATYAR. 
Bombay, February, 5, 1957. 


PROLOGUE 


Ever since the dawn of creation man has been prayerfully 
invoking the stars in their courses to lift the veil of the inscrutable 
Future. The Egyptians, Chaldeans, Chinese, Greeks, Hindus had 
all been endeavouring, with more or less success, to predict the 
destiny of men and nations by the position of planets and fixed 
stats, and in doing so they had also been noting the motions of 
the planets and building up the edifice of astronomy brick by 
brick. Prediction of events by means of astrology may be classified 
under the following six divisions :— 

* 1. Mundane — Dealing with celestial phenomena like eclipses, 
planetary conjunctions, new-moons, etc., their time of occurrence, 
and their effects on nations, countries, etc. 

2. Annual Forecast —Used for foretelling the weather, 
agricultural outlook and other matters from the nature of the 
planets presiding over each of them in the annual horoscope cast 
for the new (Equinoctial) Year. 

3. Genethliacal or Natal Astrology — Very interesting and 
complicated. It foretells the character, destiny and other matters 
about a person from the rising sign (Ascendant) and the planetary 
configurations, aspects, etc., at the time of birth. 

4. Transit system (Gochara) — This describes the effects pro- 
duced on individuals by the transit of planets and the aspects 
formed with reference to their radical positions. ‘This can deal 
with a short period only. 

5. Horary system — Deals with the horoscope prepared at the 
time some question is put to the astrologer and predictions based 
on that. These are for the immediate future. 

6. Electional system — Deals with the selection of right time 
for any business or function. The conditions and positions of the 
celestial bodies at a selected moment have a significant influence on 
a person’s activity. The basic principle of this system is that ac- 
cording to the good or bad influence due to their positions in the 
heavens and with reference to the Ascendant at the time of com- 
mencing any undertaking, the celestial bodies cause success or 
failure, joy or sorrow, profit or loss, etc. 


xi 


The first five systems tell us what is in store for us in the 
light of the Ascendant and planetary positions at a given moment. 
But the Electional system tells us what the planetary positions and 
aspects should be to start a good function in order to ensure suc- 
cess, on the assumption that we have the freedom to choose the 
most auspicious time.* 


NATAL ASTROLOGY 


For accurate and correct predictions the horoscope that we 
cast has to be correct. There are various methods of rectification 
of the horoscope. The positions of the planets in the heavens and 
their insertion in the proper houses (Bhzvas) come next to that. 

In the Indian system of calculating the planetary positions, 
the system originally im use was known as the Parahita (traditional) 
system. Later on it was modified from the observed discrepancies 
and brought into line with the Drig (observation) system. But sub- 
sequent to the discovery of the telescope and the use of advanced 
methods of mathematical calculation, it was found that the Drig 
system also was not very accurate. Now-a-days many almanacs and 
ephemerides are compiled on the basis of the elements of the 
Nautical Almanac, such as Raphael’s Ephemeris and modern Indian 
Panchangas which claim to give correct positions of planets. 

There are two systems of locating the planets, namely, the 
Sayana (tropical) and the Nirayana (sidereal) system. In the Sa- 
yana (cum precession) system the 1st point of Aries from which all 
planetary positions are given is located at the Vernal Equinox, the 
point at which the Sun crosses the Equator in his northerly course. 
On account of the precession of the Equinox this event happerrs 
once in every year of 365.2422 days which is less than the sidereal 
year of 365.2564 days. The difference in the two types of the year 
is due to the fact that the Equinox recedes in a westerly direction 
by 50” of are annually. This results in an increase im the longi- 
tudes of the fixed stars. 

In the Indian system the Ist point of Aries is reckoned from 
the fixed star Revati which one school of astronomers identifies 
with Zeta Piscium, and all positions are measured from this. Thus 
there are two methods of reckoning the longitudes of planets. The 
Sayana or the tropical system based on the moving zodiac and the 
Nirayana or the sidereal system based on the fixed zodiac. 


*,...* Adapted from the Kalaprakasika by N. P. Subramanya Iyer. 


at 


At some date in the beginning of the Christian Era the initial 
points of the two zodiacs were identical. The exact year when this 
happened cannot be definitely ascertained as the determinant star 
Revati has disappeared. Various dates have been assigned to this 
coincidence of the two zodiacs by different astronomers with the 
result that there is no agreement in regard to the amount of Pre- 
cession (Ayanamsa). The rate of annual precession also is taken 
as 50”, 52” or 60”. The precession adopted by some leading astro- 
nomers and Panchangas in India is based on the assumption that 
the longitude of the star Chitra (Alpha Virginis or Spica) is 180° 
of the fixed zodiac; hence the value of precession for 1956 
January Ist is 23° 13’ 38” and the annual precession 50”.26. 


It is evident that the position of a planet is the same in the 
two systems, the only difference being that in the movable zodiac 
it is with reference to the Equinoctial point, and in the fixed 
zodiac with reference to some fixed star. By deducting the 
Ayanamsa from the Sayana positions the Nirayana positions are 
obtained and vice versa. 


But, for precision even in the Indian system the calculation of 
the Ascendant and the 10th house is first carried out by the Sayana 
reckoning and the Ayanamsa is deducted from the result after- 
wards. The Sayana mode of reckoning has also to be used to find 
the declinations of the planets and the duration of the day and 
night. 


METHODS OF HOUSE (BHAVA) DIVISION 


The Ascendant and the M. C. (10th house cusp) and other 
house cusps are calculated by one of the usual methods. In the 
Indian system the duration of the day has to be taken into account 
to calculate the 10th house cusp. The cusps of the remaining 
houses are then determined by one of the following methods :— 


(a) Method of Placidus or the Semi-arc System: ‘ The prin- 
ciple of this system is the trisection of the semi-arc of each degree 
of the ecliptic. By successively adding 1/3 S. A. (diurnal) of any 
degree to the Sidereal Time of its ascension, said degree is found 
upon cusp of the 12th, 11th and 10th house, respectively ; similarly, 
by adding 1/3 S.A. (nocturnal) to the Sidereal Time of its descen- 
sion, said degree is found upon cusp of the 6th, Sth and 4th 
house.” 


xilt 


(b) Method of Campanus : “The principle of this system is 
the trisection of a quadrant of the Prime Vertical, (which is a great 
circle passing through the zenith point, and at right angles to the 
meridian), by great circles mutually intersecting at the north and 
south points of the horizon ; the cusps of the houses being the 
degrees of the Ecliptic cut by these circles ”. 

(c) Rational Method ascribed to Regiomontanus : “The prin- 
ciple of this system is the trisection of a quadrant of the Equator, 
comprised between the horizon and meridian, by great circles 
mutually intersecting at the north and south points of the horizon ; 
the cusps of the houses being the degrees of the Ecliptic cut by 
these circles ”. 

(d) Method of Porphyry : “ The principle of this system is the 
trisection of the arc of the Ecliptic intercepted between the horizon 
and meridian. The arc of the zodiac between the Ascendant and 
the 10th house is divided into three equal parts, giving thus the 
cusps of XI and XII houses. Similarly trisection of the arc bet- 
ween the Ascendant and the 4th house gives the cusps of IT and 
[IT houses.” 

This method of House division is generally followed in the 
Indian system. Half the sum of any two adjacent cusps is taken 
as the border line (Seuzdhi) of the two houses (bhavas). Thus each 
house has a definite range and the planets are posited in properly 
delimited bhavas, unless, of course, some of them choose to sit on 
the fence! The planet’s influence on the bhava occupied is 
maximum when it is at the cusp or near it, and it is least when 
the planet is on the border line (Sandbi). 


JUDGMENT OF THE HOROSCOPE. 


Western system : In this system the character and destiny of 
the native are delineated from the Ascendant and the position of 
planets in the angles (Kendras) and other houses and the mutual 
aspects of the planets, as also their aspects to the Ascendant and 
the 10th cusp. The timing of events is effected by means of direc- 
tions in the Progressed horoscope. 

(1) The Progressed Horoscope: (a) Primary Directions : 
the rotation of the earth on its axis from west to east brings a 
new degree of the ecliptic to the Mid-heaven every 4 minutes. The 
passing of each degree across the M. C. is supposed to represent 


1. See Casting the Horoscope by Alan Leo, pp. 110, 111. 


xiv 


one year in man’s life. Thus the directions of a man who lives 
for 90 years are completed within 6 hours after birth. The orbital 
Movement of the planets during this time is negligible. The 
planets move from house to house and form certain directions to 
their radical positions and to other planets. These directional 
changes can be calculated by considering the planets fixed, and 
advancing the M.C. 1° every year and taking the Ascendant ac- 
cording to the latitude of the place. Observe the new aspects 
which these form with the radical planets as also the changing 
mutual aspects of planets. These Primary Directions are said to 
indicate the events in a man’s life which are beyond his control, 
the inescapable destiny that smiles or frowns on him. 

(b) Secondary Directions ; Apart from the directional changes 
effected by the earth’s rotation the planets themselves change as 
they revolve in their own orbits. Taking a day to represent one 
year of life, the span of 90 years is completed by the movement 
of the planets in about 3 months. The horoscope cast for the same 
time as that of birth, on the day which represents the year, is the 
basis of judgment in the secondary system. The aspects formed by 
the progressed planets to the radical ones and the aspects to radical 
angles are judged, taking one planet after another. The solar 
directions thus formed are the most important. Then come the 
M. C., the Ascendant and the directions of other planets to those 
in the radical and progressed horoscopes. The Lumar directions 
are taken next. Since the Moon traverses about 13° in a day many 
directions are formed in the course of the year. Therefore, by 
taking 1/12 of the actual diurnal motion of the Moon the exact 
month in which a certain aspect is formed can be determined. 

Another simple method of Directing is the Radix system in 
which the average daily motion of the Sun (59’ 8”) is taken as 
the increment for every year, for the Sun, Moon and every planet 
and M.C. The Ascendant corresponding to the directional M. C. 
is determined from the Table of Houses for the latitude of the 
birthplace. The aspects formed by the progressed planets with the 
radical omes are then studied in order to judge the trend of the 
coming year. 

Indian system: All matters relating to a person’s life, its 
duration, environment, etc., are judged from the positions of the 
planets, Yogas and Dasas. The different kinds of Yogas (combi- 
nation or set-up of planetary positions) with reference to the 


XV 


Ascendant or otherwise are linked up with the events in the life 
of the native by considering the following factors :— 

1. The peculiar sign position of a planet in the heavens that 
adds to its strength, such as exaltation, occupancy of its own house, 
Vargottama, etc. This is independent of bhavas or the nature of 
the planet. 

2. The bhavas (house) positions such as position in Kendras 
(angles), Konas (trinal houses), etc. This is independent of the 
exaltations of planets. 

3. Nature of the planet that forms the Yoga. This is inde- 
pendent of its sign position and bhava position. 

4. Dignity or lack of it imparted to houses by the planets 
occupying them, e.g., Ascendant and the 8th house occupied by 
benefics or their own lords or by planets in exaltation, etc. 

5. Bhava and Planets, e.g, Adhi Yoga formed when there 
are planets in the 6th, 7th and 8th bhaves from the Ascendant or 
Moon, and the nature of the planets forming this Yoga. 

6. Combination of bhava, sign position and the planets. In 
this the sign position (Exaltation, etc.) bhava position (Kendra, 
Kona, etc.) and the intrinsic nature of the planet that forms it 
have to be considered for Yogas like Ruchaka (by Mars), Bhadra 
(Mercury), etc. 

The span of life due to certain Yogas is a definite number of 
years. 

In addition to these, the Dasa system also is considered for 
predicting the events in one’s life. According to Parasara there 
are 32 different methods for ascertaining the duration of life and 
prediction of events, which can be classified as follows : 

1. Naisargikayurdaya, 2. Pindayurdaya, 3. Rasmijayurdaya, 
4. Amsakayurdaya, 5. Chakrayurdaya, 6. Nakshatrayurdaya, 7. 
Ashtakavargayurdaya. 

In the first three systems a certain number of years is allotted 
to each planet holding an exaltatiom position and half the values 
to those that are debilitated. Proportional values are derived when 
the planets are in intermediate positions. The years obtained are 
subject to 4 kinds of reductions, viz., Chakrardha-hani (due to the 
hemisphere occupied by the planet), Satrukshetra-hani (due to 
position in an inimical house), Astamgata-hani (due to the planet's 
proximity to the Sun) and Krurodaya-hani (due to the presence 


xvi 


of a malefic in the Lagna). The Ayus derived from the Ascendant 
is added to this. 

In the Amsakayurdaya the number of years contributed by 
each planet and the Lagna is equal to the number of Navamsas 
elapsed from Mesha, expunging cycles of 12 signs whenever the 
Navamsa number exceeds 12. These are further modified, in res- 
pect of planets in exaltation, own house, etc. 

The Chakrayurdaya based on the Kalachakra Dasa system is 
found by two methods : (1) The Ayus (length of life) is the sum 
of the periods contributed by the planets in proportion to the 
untraversed portions in the Nakshatra quarter (i.e., Navamsa) oc- 
cupied by them. (2) The 27 Nakshatras are classified into Savya 
(clockwise) and Apasavya (anti-clockwise) cycles. Each quarter 
(pada) of the Nakshatra is allotted a fixed number of years. The 
Moon’s Navamsa determines the particular Dasa years. The cycle 
starts from the Navamsa rasi. Each rasi’s contribution is equal to 
the years allotted to the planet ruling the rast. The proportional 
part is calculated for the untraversed portion in the Navamsa oc- 
cupied by the Moon and the periods of rasis carried on from that 
point. 

In the Ashtottari system the maximum life period is supposed 
to be 108 years. The 28 Nakshatras (including Abhijit) are 
divided into 8 groups and allotted to the 8 planets inclusive of 
Rahu. The proportional part remaining in a planet’s Dasa is cal- 
culated from the untraversed portion of the Nakshatra occupied 
by the Moon in that group. The remaining Dasas follow in a 
fixed order. 

In the Vimshottari system the maximum life is taken to be 120 
years. The 27 Nakshatras are divided into nine groups. The three 
Nakshatras of every group are in trine to one another. Each group 
is ruled by a planet which is allotted a fixed period. Rabu and 
Ketu are taken as planets in this Dasa system. The proportional 
part corresponding to the untraversed portion in the Nakshatra 
occupied by the Moon is the balance of the Dasa period of the 
planet ruling the Nakshatra. The remaining Dasas follow in a 
fixed order. 

In the Yogini Dasa system the span for one cycle is 36 years 
contributed by the 8 Yoginis, the 1st one giving 1 year, the 2nd, 
2 years, and so on. The number of the Janmanakshatra of the 
native counted from Aswini plus 3 is divided by 8. The remainder 


XV 


shows the ordinal number of the initial Dasa. The fractional por- 
tion is calculated as in other Dasas. 

The Ashtakavarga Sysiem of Dasas: In this method the 
Shodhyapindas (vide Chap. III and pages 45-47) of the plancts 
are multiplied by 7 and the product divided by 27. The quotient 
is Nakshacra years. These are subject to Mandala corrections and 
reduction due to (a) planetary conjunctions and (b) due to the 
positions in the visible half of the birthcharc. This has been fully 
worked out (Vide Chap. XV). In this system the periods contri- 
buted by the planets are variable according to the Shodhyapinda. 
The Antaras, their order and their periods also differ in every 
horescope. 

The Jaimini system differs in many respects from those given 
in standard works. It involves the idea of different kinds of Lagna. 
The planet which has advanced to the farthest point in the rasi 
eccupied by him becomes the Atmakaraka (significator of the soul) 
and is the most important planct in the horoscope, and the rasi 
holding him is regarded as the strongest. 

Jaimini lays special emphasis on the strength of the rasé, which 
is derived by the position of one or more planets in it. The strength 
of a planet depends on the Amsabala (i.e., degrees in the resi) 
and Moolatrikona bala (i.c., position in exaltation, Moolatrikona, 
etc.). The aspects in this system are determined as follows :— 

(a) A Chara (cardinal) rasi aspects all the Sthira (fixed) 
rasis and the plancts im them except the one adjacent to it. 

(b) A Sthira rasi aspects all the Charas (and the planets in 
them) except the one adjacent to it. 

(c) An Ubhaya (mutable) rasé aspects all the other Ubhaya 
rasis (and the planets in them). 

These aspect influences, good or bad, are affected by the 
presence of planets in certain places from the aspecting lord or 
vasi. These affecting agencies are known as Argalas. 

The Dasas in the Jaimini system invariably refer to rasis. 
Various kinds of Dasas are given. The choice of a particular Dasa 
depends on circumstances. But the Chara Dasa and Trikona Dasa 
can be applied to all. Important events could be timed by Navamsa 
Dasa, and/or Chara Dasa.* Rasis are divided into two groups for 
finding the order of the succession of Dasas and counting Dasa 
years. They are : (a) Vishamapada (two odd quadrants consisting 
of (1) Mesha, Vrishabha, Mithuna and (2) Tula, Vrischika and 


18 


XVill 


Dhanus) the order of Dasa for these being Savya (clockwise) ; and 
(b) Samapada (two even quadrants consisting of (1) Kataka, 
Simha and Kanya and (2) Makara, Kumbha and Meena) the order 
of Dasa for these being Apasavya (anti-clockwise). When the 9th 
house from the Lagna falls in a Savya group the order of Dasa 
succession is direct, the first Dasa starting from the Lagna rasi, 
the 2nd Dasa starting from the rasi next to the Lagna and so on, 
and im an Apasavya group the order is anti-clockwise, i.e., Lagna, 
12th house, etc. 

The Dasa period is variable according to the situation of the 
lord of the Dasa with reference to his rast and is equal to (n— 1) 
years, where n represents the distance in rasis between the rasi 
and its lord taken clockwise or anti-clockwise according as the 
ras: belongs to the Savya or Apasavya group. These are modified 
according to the benefic or malefic disposition of the lords. The 
Antaras in a main rasi Dasa follow the same principles as for 
the Dasa. 

Finally, there is the method of forecasting the events of the 
year from the annual horoscope. Here a horoscope is cast for the 
time when the Sun returns exactly to the same longitude as he oc- 
cupied at birth.1 The other planetary positions and aspects and the 
Dasa periods for the year are calculated according to the pre- 
scribed rules and probable events of the year are predicted in con- 
junction with the usual Dasa period effects. 

The Nadi Jyotisha is a unique system of astrology. The books 
on this system contain ready-made horoscopes giving out the whole 
life-reading with important events in the life of the native as well as 
his parents, wife, etc., and also information about the previous and 
future births, and other matters. 

Each rasi is divided into 150 amsas and cach amsa has a 
Purva (former) bhaga and Uttara (latter) bhaga. The Purva and 
Uttara bhagas of the same amsa produce an entirely different type 
of life incidents. The selection of the appropriate Nadi for a per- 
son depends on some such factor as (a) certain lines on his palm 
(b) the length of his shadow (c) the name or an important event 
itr the life, etc., and this clue to the selection is being kept as a 
secret by the astrologers in possession of the Nadis. 

The standard works on astrology have dealt with the deter- 
mination of the duration of life, events, etc., by various methods, 


oe 


1. According to the Tajik system. 


XX. 


such as, the special Yogas, the different kinds of Dasas with the 
Antaras, etc. On the basis of the Dasas the good and bad effects 
that are likely to be produced have also been explained as ranging 
from Sampurna (complete) for plancts in exaltation to Rikta (nil) 
for planets in debilitation, in inimical houses, etc. The type of 
Dasa that applies to a particular horoscope depends on the Shad- 
varga strength of the planets or on the presence of special Yogas. 
But, nowadays, most of the astrologers ignore these subtle distinc- 
tions and rely exclusively on the Udu (Nakshatra) Dasa systems. 
The principal Udu Dasa systems are : the Vimshottari prevalent 
in South India and in the Uttar Pradesh and Bengal, and the 
Ashtottari common in Gujarat, Saurashtra, Maharashtra, Bengal, 
etc., the Yogini in Northern India and the Kalachakra Dasa which 
is rarcly used. All these Dasas depend on the position of the 
Moon at the time of birth and each has different Dasa lords and 
periods. The consensus of opinion is that the prediction of events 
based om the Vimshottari Dasa system is in better agreement with 
the actual events in life. To supplement this, the effects arising 
from the transit of planets (Gochara) through the various rasis 
are delineated. In spite of all these, the nature of the event and 
the time of its occurrence, predicted with the help of the Dasa 
amd its Antaras are very often found to be in disagreement with 
and sometimes even contradictory to what are predicted from the 
transits. Further the question whether a given horoscope would 
respond to the Dasa effects or to transit effects, or if both operate 
ander certain conditions, what these conditions are, has proved very 
difficult to solve in the light of the existing methods. Of course, 
the authors have sought to explain away these knotty points by 
means of the Vedha positions, but even these do not satisfactorily 
solve the problem. Evidently the sages were aware of these diffi- 
culties and have, therefore, propounded the Ashtakavarga system 
to enable us to eliminate these apparent anomalies and arrive at 
accurate results. 

They have enumerated certain places as auspicious and others 
as inauspicious as reckoned from the houscs occupied by the plarrecs 
and from the Lagna. The marking (usually by bindus) of these 
auspicious places in a person’s horoscope with reference to the 
positions of the planets and the Lagna at birth constitutes the 
Ashakavarga (so named because of the eight positions) of that 
horoscope. The method of working usually adopted for preparing 


XX 


Ashtakavarga tables is to reckon the auspicious positions from the 
rising sign and the signs occupied by the planets. Further, every rast 
(sign) is divided into 8 equal parts called Kakshyas and all the 
rasis have the same order of the rulers of Kakshyas and the rulers 
govern the same fixed degree areas. There are some drawbacks. 
in this signwise method. The Bhinnashtakavarga figures of the 
planets and the Samudayashtakavarga total in each rasi will be the 
same for all persons born with a particular rasi as the Lagna on 
any day, itrespective of the degree rising. The transit effects will 
thus be the same and will be experienced simultaneously by all 
of them, on account of the fixed positions of the Kakshyas. 

But it has been found ftom experience that the events and 
transit effects are different even for persons having the same sign 
but a different degree of it om the Ascendant. The case of twins 
may be cited as a proof of this statement. Again, persons may be 
born with the same rising degree (Lagna), but if the births are in 
different latitudes the M.C. and the other house-cusps would 
differ, and consequently the orientation of the plancts would also 
differ. It may also be pointed out that whereas text-books on 
astrology carry on the sub-divisions of a rasi into Hora, Drekana 
and other Vargas right upto Shashtyamsa (60th part), the division 
into 8 parts (Kakshyas) is mentioned only in connection with the 
Ashtakavarga system.' If this Kakshya division of rasi is on a 
permanent basis, as it is supposed to be, it is conspicuous by its 
absence in the Samjna Adhyaya, (the chapter on terminology) in 
every text-book. 


For certain purposes the bivdzs in a bbara have to be taken 
for Ashtakavarga calculations. When a bhava extends into two rasis 
and the Ashtakavarga is prepared on the basis of the rasés treated as 
bbavas, the question would be from which of the two ras.s involved 
should we take the bindus for the particular bhava. Because of 
these defects of the signwise method the preparation of Ashtaka- 
varga from the bbava positions of the planets appears to be a 
better method, for in that case the same planetary positions in the 
zodiac (on any day) will be found in different bhava positions in 
horoscopes having different degrees of the same rasi as Ascendant, 
or even for the same degree of Ascendant in different latitudes. 
Owing to this change of bhava positions of planets, the Bhinn- 


1. Division of rast into 8 parts and 11 parts is found also in the 
Tajik system. 


Xx 


ashtakavarga figures and the Samudayashtakavarga total in cach 
bbava for -each horoscope will be different. This bhava method 
of preparing the Ashtakavarga does not tamper with or alter in 
any way the interpretation of the verses describing the method of 
marking the auspicious places, for Bha or Bhavana is used as a 
synonym for rasi as well as bhava. Moreover, the division into 
Kakshyas may then be carried out so as to include even the signs 
intercepted in any bhava, The starting point of a Kakshya or the 
Kakshya lordship for a particular sign of the zodiac need not be 
the same in all horoscopes. Further, the rasi multipliers may be 
.taken as applicable to the bhavas. The multiplier for the rast in 
which the Ascendant falls is taken as that of the 1st bher'a and the 
remaining ones for the succeeding bharas taken in order. This 
can account for the difference in the timing and nature of events 
expericnced by persons born with the same rising sign. 

The interpretations through the Ashtakavarga method can be 
broadly classified as (1) the magnitude or importance of a pre- 
dicted event, (2) the nature, quality, kind, etc. of the event and 
(3) the time of the event. They are best judged by means of (a) 
the Bhinnashtakavarga strength of the plancts (b) the Prastar- 
ashtakavarga for determining the time of occurrence and the nature 
and type of the event and (c) the Samudayashtakavarga for finding 
out the important phascs in one’s life denoted by outstanding 
events, fortunate or otherwise. Again, the Ashtakavarga may be 
advantageously utilised for finding out the best year, month, day 
and Lagna (rising sign) for the commencement of any kind of 
function in order to ensure success and prosperity. 

After preparing the several Bhinnashtakavargas and the Samu- 
‘daya total in each bhava, the good and bad effects arising from the 
position of planets at birth have to be judged. Planets associated 
with 1 to 3 bindus (benefic points) in their respective Ashtaka- 
‘vargas in the bhavas occupied by them at birth generally cause 
‘diseases, sorrow, agony and privations even when they arc in exal- 
tation, their own houses, etc., and the adverse effects are intensified 
when the planets are in debility, inimical houses, etc. ; with 4 
bindus the effects are of a mixed nature, partly good and partly 
evil. Planets associated with 5 or more bindus are auspicious and 
‘bestow all kinds of prosperity, the extent of which increases with 
the number of bindus. If, in addition to this, they occupy Upachaya 
‘houses (3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th), or own or exaltation houses and 


XXii 


are strong according to Shadvargabala, the good effects are still 
further enhanced. Even those planets that are in debility or occupy 
inimical houses or 6th, 8th or 12th bhava prove auspicious, if they 
are associated with 5 or more bindus (vide Ch. IV). This is the 
reason why the results predicted simply from the strength, position,. 
etc., of the planets, without due consideration of the Ashtakavarga 
strength do not come up to expectation. 

The Dasas of the different planets also are to be judged from 
this Ashtakavarga strength. The Dasa of a planet is auspicious. 
if the planet is associated with 5 or more bindus (in his Ashtaka- 
varga) in the bhava occupied by him. The effect reaches the 
maximum when the number of bizdus is 8; when the number is 
less than 4the Dasa provesinauspicious and with 4 bindus it gives 
mixed results. Rahu and Ketu are said to be similar to Saturn and 
Mars respectively in their effects. As they are not included in the 
Ashtakavarga consideration, their Dasa effects may be judged from 
the Ashtakavargas of Saturn (for Rahu) and Mars (for Ketu), but 
taking Rahu and the house occupied by him in lieu of Saturn and 
Ketu and the house occupied by him in lieu of Mars respectively : 
Or they may be judged from the Ashtakavarga of Rahu given by 
Yavanacharya. This point can be settled only from observation. 
The Antaras (sub-periods) of the planets in any main Dasa prove 
auspicious, if both the houses owned by the Antara lord contain 
more than five bindus in the Ashtakavarga of the main Dasa lord 
and prove inauspicious if these houses contain less than four bindus 
(except in the case of the Sun and Moon where only one housc 
has to be taken). The Ashtakavarga Dasa, though highly spoken 
of by ancient teachers of astrology (vide Chap. XV), is not availed 
of in practice now-a-days. 

Important events are, as a rule, predicted according to the 
positions of the planets in rasis and bbavas at birth. But the 
Ashtakavarga gives a new method of prediction of events, since 
we are asked to consider the positions (at birth) of planets in 
different Kakshyas. They are good or bad according to the pre- 
sence of a bindu or a rekba in that Kakshya. The magnitude of 
the events will depend on the number of bindus ot rekbas in the 
bbava occupied by the different planets (vide Chap. XVII). 

After finding out the proportion of the good and bad planetary 
influences from the individual Ashtakavargas of the plancts, one 
has to modify that by a consideration of the Samudayashtakavarga 


Xxili 


total in the bhava, Since the Samudaya total in any bhava is the 
aggregate of the béindus of all the indicators it gives a definite 
idea of the strength of that bhava with respect to all the 
planets. Any planet in a bhava having more than 28 bindus in 
the Samudayashtakavarga invariably produces good results, the 
magnitude increasing with the number of bindus : even a planet 
associated with few bixdss in his Ashtakavarga proves auspicious 
to a limited extent, and a planet strong by association with many 
bindus in his Ashtakavarga produces the best possible results. 


The type, quality, nature, etc., of the events arising from a 
planet’s transit through a bhava have to be determined from the 
Shadvarga strength, the special Yogas, the aspects to the transiting 
planet, the lord of the Kakshya transited, the bbavas, etc., in co- 
ordination with the Ashtakavarga strength also. 


The rasis are classified as (a) Karma (productive of action) 
represented by carnings through the vocation of the native ; (b) 
Bhoga (enjoyment) represented by the enjoyment of a varicty ot 
food and drinks, music, dance, cosmetics, company of women, etc., 
and (c) Vinasakah (destructive or afflicting) represented by harsh 
words, castigation, threats and similar actions wounding the mind 
or body. The type of articles used for these are classified as 
Dhatu, Moola aud Jiva. Dhatu (element) class includes minerals, 
bones, mineral oils and their various derivatives. Moola (vege- 
table) class includes grass, creepers, vines, bushes, herbs and trees 
and their products like seeds, flowers, wood, etc. Jiva (animal) 
class includes all kinds of living beings originating from mammals, 
eggs and their various orders and species. 


The rasis and the Drekamas are designated as Karma, Bhogg. 
and Nasa, according to their Chara, Sthira and Ubhaya nature. 
Of the three Navamsas of each Drekana, the Chara represents 
Dhatu, the Sthira represents Moola and the Ubhaya stands for Jiva 
class. Each of these Navamsas produces nine types of results on 
account of its being occupied or aspected by the nine planets. Thus 
one rast of the zodiac can produce 81 different types of results. The 
identification and specification of these are to be made (1) from 
the Panchabhutatatva condition (cognised by the sensory organs 
and represented by the planets) existing at the particular time 
owing to some planet’s or Kakshya-lord’s presence im or aspect 
to a Kakshya. 


XXIV 


The nature and name of an article in question can be identified 
by means of the letters of the alphabet appropriate to the rasis and 
planets. Their classification as good, medium or coarse can be 
made from the exaltation, own house, and other positions of the 
planets. For example if the Sun occupies a Karma-Dhatu (Chara 
Drekana — Chara Navamsa) place, he bestows articles of the type 
ranging from gold to one made of clay according to the position in 
exaltation, own house, etc. But this bestowal happens only when 
the Kakshya which falls in this section of the zodiac contains a 
bindu in his Ashtakavarga and not otherwise. If the Kakshya 
contains a rekba (not marked generally), the loss of the enu- 
merated articles takes place. Suppose Saturn is in a Bhoga-Jiva 
(Sthira Drekana — Ubhaya Navamsa) place and Jupiter occupics 
a Nasa-Moola (Ubhaya Drekana — Sthira Navamsa) place and 
that the Kakshya occupied by Jupiter contains a bindu comtri- 
buted by Saturn. If Saturn is stronger than Jupiter, enjoyment of 
happiness from wife and other relations is the result. If Saturn 
is the weaker one, there is gain from sale of grass, wood, etc. If 
Jupiter is unfavourable owing to its occupation of a Kakshya 
having a rekba, a stronger Saturn brings loss of happiness from 
wife and other relations and a stronger Jupiter brings loss from 
the produce of Moola types. In this manner, the Drekana- 
Navamsa positional results are to be interpreted and gain or loss 
from these sources is judged from the presence or absence of a 
bindu in the Kakshya that falls in this position. 

As an instance of delineating the results from the Pancha- 
bhutatatva, suppose the Sum occupies a Kakshya of Saturn. The 
Sun represents acerbity of taste and perception of shape, while 
Saturn represents astringent taste and perception of feel or touch. 
If the Kakshya occupied contains a bindu and if both the planets 
are strong, acquisition of silk or some equally fine fabric appealing 
to the eye and soft in feel may be expected. If both are weak, 
they represent ugly and coarse fabrics like black rugs, etc. But, 
when the Kakshya of Saturn contains a rekba, there is loss, instead 
of gain, of the above things, the nature of actual experience de- 
pending on the strength or weakness of the Sun and Saturn. Here 
also the gain or loss has to be judged from the presence or ab- 
sence of a bindu in the relevant Kakshya. 

These effects of the transits of planets should also be inter- 
preted according to the bhavas transited. The transits of 


XXV 


planets through a bhava containing more than 4 bindus in their 
respective Ashtakavargas produce auspicious results relating to that 
bhava ; and conversely, transits through a bhava containing less 
than 4 hindus produce adverse results. The position of the transited 
house — or, in other words, the ordinal number of that house — 
may be reckoned as usual from the Ascendant where the Ascendant 
describes the native himself, the 2nd bhava rules his wealth, 
family, etc., and so on. It may also be considered from the posi- 
tion of the respective radical planet whose Kakshya is transited, 
e.g., from radical Saturn when the Kakshya of Saturn is transited, 
and so on (vide Chap. XVI). Which of the two methods yields 
better results is a question to be decided by further investigation. 
We have tentatively adopted the first method for the example 
horoscope as it appears to be the more conventional method. 

The results are again to be judged according to the Kara- 
katva of the planets. The Sun is the Karaka of the father and per- 
sonality of the native ; the Moon is the Karaka of the mind and 
the mother, and so on. 

Lastly, they should be judged from the position of the planets 
in the Upachaya or Apachaya houses from the Lagna. The former 
increases the good effects (if there is a preponderance of bindus) 
to a greater extent than the latter. If there is a paucity of bindus, 
the Upachaya houses produce less adverse results as compared with 
Apachaya houses. These effects are further enhanced, if the planets 
in question occupy friendly, own or exaltation houses, or diminished 
if they are combust or in inimical or debilitation houses. 

The nexe point for consideration is how to find the time 
of fruition and the periods of prosperity and adversity. This is 
done from the study of transits and the Prastarashtakavargas 
of the planets. Herein the bindus and the rekbas in a bhava are 
distributed in the different Kakshyas, the bindus only being placed 
in the Kakshyas of the donating planets. When a planet transits 
a bhava his Prastarashtakavarga is to be referred to. Out of the 
total duration of a transit, the periods of transit through Kakshyas 
having bindus produce auspicious results and the remaining periods 
inauspicious ones. The net result will be good or bad according 
to the preponderance of binds or rekbas. 

At the time of transiting a bhava a planet produces eight 
types of results for the 8 Kakshyas which will be good or bad ac- 
cording to the presence or absence of a bindz in his Ashtakavarga. 


XXVi 


But all these do not take place at the same time (vide Chap. XVI). 
When a planet transits a Kakshya he produces one and only one 
type of result, which is according to the bhava position he occupies 
from the radical position of the lord of the Kakshya transited. 
At a given moment there will be seven types of transit results pro- 
duced by the seven planets. Thus the results of Gochara, i.e., 
transits should be observed and analysed from the transits of all 
the planets. But in actual practice the Gochara results are generally 
considered from the Moon alone and sometimes from the Lagna, by 
simply using the auspicious positions from the radical Moon or 
the Lagna in the respective planet’s Ashtakavarga. Here, ton, the 
total number of bindus in the bhava transited is not taken into 
account for finding out the proportion of the predicted results. 
Owing to this and also owing to the effects of the Gochara con- 
sidered in relation to other planets (which are usually not taken 
into account) some of the incidents predicted do not materialisc, 
or if they do materialise, they only falsify the prediction. 


It may perhaps be due to this reason that some teachers of 
astrology opine that the planetary Dasa effects are more abiding 
(Sthira) and the effects produced by the transits of plancts (which 
are given with reference to the radical Moon only) are transitory 
(Asthira). Wher the efficacy of the planetary Dasas and their 
Antaras itself depends more on the Ashtakavarga strength of the 
Dasa lord and the number of bivdus (in his Ashtakavarga) in the 
houses of the Antara lords (Vide Chap. XV) than on the 
strength considered from Shadvarga, Uccha, Kendra positions, etc., 
alone, this statement (made without reference to Ashtakavarga) 
cannot always hold good. It is true that planets possessed of both 
these kinds of strength produce by far the best and auspicious 
results during their Dasas and Antaras than when they possess only 
one kind of strength. Again, in a Dasa period many events are 
predicted as likely to take place and the time of some of these 
is determined from the Antaras. But whether any of these events 
can at all take place and that too, at the time determined, has to 
be judged from the transit of the Dasa and Antara lords through 
the various bhavas and the bindus contained in them. The occur- 
rence of the event and the success of the prediction are assured. 
only when the bhava occupied at that time (at the commencement 
of the Dasa as well as at the time of the transit) by the respective 
planets contain more bindus than rekbas in the Ashtakavarga of 


XXVii 


the Dasa lord, irrespective of the bhava transited. If the bindus 
are very few the prediction ends in failure, for the expected good 
does not materialise or does so only in a feeble way. Therefore, 
even in an innocuous Dasa period, the best possible results and 
the time of their occurrence can be determined from the transit of 
the planets through bhavas having the maximum number of bindus 
in their respective Ashtakavargas. Conversely, even during the 
best Dasa period, a frustration or failure can happen, when the 
planets in transit at that time occupy bhavas having the Icast 
number of bindus in their respective Ashtakavargas. 

The interpretation of the Gochara results from the Samuday- 
ashtakavarga gives greater precision in respect of time and greater 
accuracy in respect of the shape of events than that from individual 
Ashtakavargas. Since 337 is the total number of bindus, the average 
for each bhava is 28. Bhavas containing 28 or more bindus are aus- 
picious and those with less than 28 are inauspicious. When one or 
more planets transit a bhava having more than 28 bindus they 
invariably produce auspicious results which are augmented by the 
increase in the number of bindus. These resulis will be the sum 
total of the effects arising from position of the transited house, 
that is to say, the ordinal number of that house as reckoned from 
the radical planet as well as the Lagna. The planet receiving 
less than 4 bindus (in his Ashtakavarga) alone may not producc 
any auspicious results, but in any case he does not cause harm 
during the transit. Again, the Samudayashtakavarga is very helpful 
in estimating the periods of greatest prosperity or adversity from 
the transit of planets through the bhavas containing the highest o: 
lowest number of bindus. The periods of prosperity or affliction 
or possible death of the several relations of the native also can 
be judged from the radical positions of the respective Karaka 
planets and the transits affecting such planets. 

In a civil year of 365 days the Sun goes round the zodiac 
once andhe takes a month for passing through each rasi or bhava. 
As the zodiac is divided into 96 Kakshyas in the Ashtakavarga 
of the Sun (and other planets), the Sun takes on an average about 
32 days (the exact duration depends on the extent of the Kakshya 
and the motion of the Sun) to transit a Kakshya and during this 
time he brings to maturity the effects (good or bad) relating to 
that Kakshya. During one year the Moon makes about 13 and odd 
revolutions round the zodiac and produces results in accordance 


XXVIli 


with her Ashtakavarga bindus, thirteen times in a year as compared 
with those produced by the Sun once. She takes about 17 Ghatikas, 
ie., 6 hrs. 48 min. (varying according to the Kakshya as well as 
her motion) to transit a Kakshya. During this transit about 4 rasis 
of the zodiac and 7 Kala-horas elapse owing to the diurnal rota- 
tion of the earth. From these details one can easily find out the 
time of the best period nearest to the hour, from (a) the positions 
of the Sun and Moon in Kakshyas having bindus (in their respective 
Ashtakavargas), (b) from the rising sign containing the maximum 
number of bindus (in Samudayashtakavarga) and (c) from the 
Kala-hora of the strongest planet. A further sub-division of the 
time to the nearest quarter-hour can be had from the Ascendant 
and Kala-hora by selecting the moment when a Kakshya having 
a bindu is rising. The expected event will come to pass at this 
time. Importance is given to the Sun as he is the planct that 
brings to maturity, and to the Moon as she nourishes and preserves, 
the effects that are indicated as certain from the Ashtakavarga 
combined with those determined from Dasas and Antardasas, 
Yogas, etc. If other planets are in bhavas having the maximum 
bindus in their respective Ashtakavargas and in Kakshyas associ- 
ated with bindus, effects of the events are experienced to a great 
extent, and to a still greater extent, if the planets are in bhavas 
having more bi#dus in the Samudayashtakavarga. 

This method can be used to the greatest advantage for the 
selection of an auspicious time (Muhurta) for any function. Find 
out the month (to be determined from the Solar ingress day) and 
the particular day on which the sum of the bindus associated with 
the transiting planets (from their respective Ashtakavargas prepared 
from the birth horoscope) in the bhavas occupied by them, is the 
maximum. Select the period when the Sun and Moon are passing 
through Kakshyas having bindus. From the bhavas and Kala-horas 
rising during this period, select that bhava which has the maximum 
number of bizdus as the rising sign, and/or the Kala-hora of the 
planet which is associated with the maximum number of bindus. 
From the Ascendant choose the time when a Kakshya having a 
bindu in the Ashtakavarga of the lord of that bhava is rising. If 
all these are selected properly one is assured of success. 

When sages like Parasara, Narada, Garga, etc., and even Vara- 
hamihira (in the Laghujataka) maintain that in considering 
transits (Gochara) of planets it is the bhaves having the maximum 


XXiX 


number of bindus in their respective Ashtakavargas and/or im 
Samudayashtakavarga that should be taken for all auspicious func- 
tions, and not merely the bbhavas reckoned to be good from the 
radical Moon, we fail to understand why this method of analysing 
is ignored or neglected. It may perhaps be duc to paucity of in- 
formation in the published and existing standard works on this 
branch of astrology in all its aspects, and to the fact that what is 
available has been scattered about in various works or in manu- 
scripts not within the reach of ordinary students. 

According to ancient authors selection of good bhavas through 
mere Gochara position is a gross and superficial method while the 
selection made through Ashtakavarga is a more refined and hence 
a more acceptable method. They further state that one should 
resort to ordinary Gochara selections only when Ashtakavarga 
positions are not available (vide Chap. XIII). 

In this manner the Ashtakavarga can be applied to determine 
the time of events and the interpretation of planetary influences. 
As sage Parasara says (Chap. I) the Ashtakavarga is a simpler and 
easier method of gauging the strength of planets, the effects of tran- 
sits and predicting the events in one’s life from the horoscope, as 
compared with other methods like the Shadvarga strength, Yogas, 
Dasas, etc. In short, “the Ashtakavarga tables are useful in the 
prediction of most of the important events of life. In predicting 
the length of life, Antardasas, and all other benefic or malefic 
results, these Ashtakavarga results are first determined to ascertain 
which planets are benefic (or malefic) and in which houses, as they 
pass round the heavens ; and then ultimate results are judged.” 

A Synopsis of the Contents : 

Chap. I: Introduces the subject in the form of a talk between 
Maitreya and Parasara. 

Chap. If: The enumeration of berefic places and the method of 
preparing the full Ashtakavarga tables of the Sun and 
other planets. 

Chap. III: The Trikona and Ekadhipatya reductions and the cal- 
culation of the Shodhyapindas of all the planets. 

Chap. TV: Matters to be considered from the bhavas and the 
planets and the method of application to the relevant rela- 
tions. The strength of the bhavas and planets from their 


1 Notes by Swami Vijnanananda on the Brihbatjataka, Chap. IX, page 
164, S.B.E. Vol. XII. 


XXX 


individual Ashtakavargas ; the general effects of the planets 
in the houses occupied at birth and in transit through houses 
containing 0 to 8 bindus. 

Chap. V: The Prastarashtakavarga (distributive) and the Sarva- 
chanchachakra ; and the determination of the time when 
events, good or evil, take place and the nature of events. 

Chaps. VI--XII1: The individual Ashtakavargas of the Sun, the 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn; the 
nature of the effects produced by them when associated 
with certain number of bindus, in the houses occupied at 
birth and in transit, and calculation of periods of adversity 
from Shodhyapinda, etc. 

Chap. XIII; Various matters considered from the Ashtakavargas 
of planets, such as finding out the time of sickness and 
death, adversity, etc. 

Chap. XIV : The Samudayashtakavarga, its preparation, the mini- 
mum bindus required for each bhava and some typical com- 
binations of bindus and planets in certain bhavas for cer- 
tain type of effects, the method of finding out auspicious 
day, month, etc., and the general effects produced when 
the aggregate of bindus is 14 and above. 

Chap. XV : Different methods of calculating the duration of life, 
the planetary Dasas and Antardasas from the Ashtakavarga 
and the application of Ashtakavarga to other types of 
Dasas. 

Chap. XVI: The effects produced by planets in transit, considered 
in relation to the radical planets and the Ascendant. 

Chap. XVII: Events that may take place in the life of a person 
owing ta the position of planets at birth im Kakshyas 
having a bindu or rekha. 

In conclusion, we crave the indulgence of our readers for 
scores of solecisms that have crept in while we were struggling to 
squeeze the right sense out of many a tough Sanskrit verse and 
express it im a foreign language. Further, we also consider it 
necessary to emphasize here the fact that the present treatise claims 
to be not a master key but only an attempt to solve some of the 
knotty problems of predictive astrology. We are fully aware 
that we have touched only the fringe of the subject so far, and 
much more remains to be done by way of investigation in order 
to confirm (and sometimes even to reject outright, if necessary,) 
the views and findings of the ancients. But for obvious reasons 


Xxxi 


we have been compelled to postpone all such work to a later 
edition. In the meanwhile, we fervently hope that even what 
little spade-work we have done at present will suffice to stimulate 
interest among all research-loving students who are, no doubt, 
better qualified than ourselves to delve deeper into this fascinating 
subject. 


POSTSCRIPT 


In view of our departure from the traditional method and 
the adoption of the ébava method of Ashtakavarga the reader 
will naturally have the curiosity to know how our innovation 
would work in high latitudes. We are, therefore, applying the 
Ashtakavarga system to the horoscope of King Edward VII after 
converting it to the Nirayana basis. It need not be said that for 
observing the effect of transits through the houses the tropical 
horoscope can as well be used. 

As this is a sort of stop-press item, the reader is requested to 
revert to this case after mastering the contents of the book. 


A — Horoscope of King Edward VII 


Date of birth: Tuesday, 9th November 1841; 10-48 a.m., 
G.M.T. ; Buckingham Palace, London 51° 30’N, 0° 847 W. 

Ayanamsa : 21° 37’ 59”. Janma Nakshatra : Uttara-phalguni, 
4th quarter. 

Balance of the Sun’s Dasa (Vimshottari): 0 y. lim. 24 d. 

Planetary positions (in signs, degrees and minutes) : The Sun 
6-25-16 ; the Moon 5-7-49 ; Mars 8-23-36; Mercury 7-10-41} ; 
Jupiter 7-29-50 ; Venus 5-27-36; Saturn 8-8-31; Rahu 9-12-4 ; 
Ketu 3-12-4 ; Uranus 10-28-59 ; Neptune 9-22-41 ; Pluto 11-27-48]}} 
and Mandi (Gulika) 9-4-34. 


House Cusp(Centre) Terminal Sandhi 
Ist 8° 5° 59! 8° 26° 49/ 
2nd 9 17 39 10 8 29 
3rd 10 29 20 11 20 10 
4th 0 ll iO 0 20 10 
5th 0 29 20 1 8 30 


6th 1 17 39 1 26 49 


XXX1i 


House Cus p(Centre) Terminal Sandhi 

7th 2 5 59 2 26 49 
8th 3 17 39 4 8 29 
9th 4 29 2 5 20 10 

10th 6 11 0 6 20 10 

11th 6 29 20 7 8 30 

12th 7 #17 «#39 7 26 49 

Bhinna and Samudaya Ashtakavarga Bindus :— 

Bhava Sun Moon Mars Merc. Jup. Venus Sat. Samudaya 
I 2 3 4 4 6 3 1 = 23 
II 5 5 3 6 5 3 2 = 29 
Hi 2 5 3 1 5 3 4 = 23 
IV 5 4 4 6 4 5 1 = 29 
Vv 3 3 2 2 5 6 5 = 26 
VI 4 7 2 4 4 3 5 = 29 
VII 4 4 3 4 6 2.2 = 25 

Vill 4 3 4 6 5 6 3 2 31 
1X 6 4 3 4 3 6 3 = 29 
x 4 4 5 7 5 6 3 = 34 
XI 7 5 5 6 5 6 7 = 41 
XIl 2 2 1 4 3 3 3 18 

48 49 39 54 56 52 39 = 337 


Note : Bold figures indicate the A.V. strength of the radical planets. 


Sun is in llth bhava, 3rd Kakshya containing a lindu 
ivloon th , 6th : $s Fe 
Mars = Ist ,, 8th y ri i 
Mercury ,, 12th ,, Ist 7 3 rekha 
Jupiter Ist ,, 2nd sf io bindu 
Venus » 10th , 2nd % 45 * 
Saturn . Ist ,, 5th a 5% rekha 


IMPORTANT EVENTS 


(With brief notes on Dasa and transit influences.) 


Note : Planets linked with a cross are the lords of the Dasa and Antara 
current at the time of the event. 


13-12-1861 Father’s death — Rahu X Rahu. Transits — Rahu 


XXxili 


through 1st house (23 bindus); Saturn and Jupiter 
in Uttaraphalguni and Sun in Aslesha (Chap. 
VI-14. etc.). 

10-3-1863 Marriage — Rahu X Jupiter. Transits — Jupiter 
through 10th house (34) in conjunction with Venus. 

17-1-1864 Birth of son (Duke of Clarence) — Rahu X Jupiter. 
Transits — Jupiter through 11th (41). 

3--6-1865 2nd son born (King George V) — Rahu X Mercury. 
Transits — Rahu and Saturn through 10th (34). 

Nov. 


Dec }-is7 Illness — Rahu X Venus. Transits — Saturn 


through Ist (23); Rahu, 7th (25) and Mars, 1st and 

2nd (23, 29). 

14-1--1892 Death of the Duke of Clarence — Jupiter X Rahu. 
Transits — Jupiter, 3rd (23); Rahu, 5th (26). 

June 1896 Won the Derby — Saturn X Saturn. Moon in 9th 
(29; Chap. XIV-—14). Transits — Rahu, 2nd (29); 
Saturn, 11th (41); Jupiter, 8th (31). 

18—7-1898 Fracture of knee-cap— Saturn X Mercury. Transits 
— Saturn, 12th (18); Rahu, ist (23); Mars, 5th (26). 

4-4-1900 Fired at by Sipido — Saturn < Ketu. Transits — 
Saturn, Ist (23); Rahu and Jupiter, 12th (18). Mars, 
3rd (23). 

22-1-1901 Death of Queen Victoria — Saturn X Venus. Tran- 
sits — Saturn and Jupiter, Ist (23); Rahu, 11th (41). 

9-8-1902 Coronation — Saturn X Venus. Transits — Rahu, 
10th (34); the Sun, 8th (31). 

6-5-1910 Death — Saturn X Jupiter. Transits — Rahu, 5th 
(26); Saturn, 4th (29) in Aswini (Chap. XII-17). 

B — Events relating to the Standard Horoscope. 
. (With brief notes on Dasa and transit influences.) 

Oct.-1878 Grandfather’s death—Rahu X Venus. Transits — 
Jupiter and Rahu through 8th bhava (23 bindus). 

Aug.-1879 Grandmother’s death — Rahu X Venus. Transits — 
Rahu, 8th (23); Jupiter, 9th (26). 

Apr.-1883 Investiture of sacred thread — Rahu X Mars. Tran- 
sits — Mercury, 11th (28); Jupiter, 10th (32). 

Apr.-1891 Marriage — Jupiter X Venus. Transits — Jupiter, 
10th (32) im trine to Venus ; Saturn, 4th (27). 

Nov.-1893 Bitten by a viper — Jupiter X Venus. Transits — 

IT 


XXXIV 


Rahu in Revati (p. 192) ; Saturn and Mars, 5th (19, 
Chap. XVII-46). 

June-1897 State service — Jupiter X Rahu. Transits — Jupiter, 
3rd (38); Saturn, 6th (33). 

Feb.-1898 Scrious sickness of wife — Jupiter X Rahu. Transits 
— Venus and Rahu, 8th (23); Saturn, 7th (18). 

9-4-1898 Father’s death — Jupiter X Rahu. Transits -~ Rahu, 
8th, (23); Saturn, 7th (18) in Jyeshta; the Sun in 
Revati (p. 196). 

151899 Mother’s death — Jupiter X Rahu. Transits — Rahu, 
7th (18); Saturn, 7th (18) im Jyeshta; Jupiter, 5th (19). 

Feb.-1900 Birth of the first son — Saturn X Saturn. Transits — 
Jupiter, 6th (33) in Anuradha (p. 198).. 

21-3-1904 Birth of a son — Saturn X Mercury. Transits — 
Jupiter in Uttarashadha (p. 124); the Sun in Mecna 
(p. 125). 

Oct.-1910 False accusation, charge of insubordination and dis- 
charge from service — Saturn X the Moon. Transits 
—Jupiter, 5th (19); Rahu in Krittika (p. 198). 

15-3-1928 Son’s marriage Mercury X Rahu. 

16-3-1928 Daughter’s death } Transits — Saturn, 7th (18) in 
Jyeshta ; Jupiter, 11th (28) in Revati (p. 198). 

3-10-1939 Son’s death — Ketu X Jupiter. Transits — Rahu 
and the Sun, 5th (19). 

18-10-1941 Another son’s death — Ketu X Mercury. Transits 
—the Sun, 5th (19); Saturn in Krittika (p. 198). 

Apr.-1955 Motor accident — Venus X Saturn. Transit — Rahu, 
7th (18). 


CHAPTER 
FOREWORD 
AUTHORS’ NOTE 
PROLOGUE . ; 
I INTRODUCING THE SUBJECT 
II METHOD OF COMPUTING ASHTAKAVARGA . 
III TRIKONA AND EKADHIPATYA SHODHANAS . 
IV BHAVA AND BINDU PHALA . 
Vv PRASTARASIITAKAVARGA AND 
SARVACHANCHACHAKRA 
VI ASHTAKAVARGA OF THE SUN 
VII ASHTAKAVARGA OF THE MOON 
VIII ASHTAKAVARGA OF MARS 
IX ASHTAKAVARGA OF MERCURY 
xX ASHTAKAVARGA OF JUPITER . 
XI ASHTAKAVARGA OF VENUS 
XII ASHTAKAVARGA OF SATURN . 
XIII MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS . 
XIV SAMUDAYASHTAKAVARGA 
XV AYUS AND DASAS . 
XVI PLANETARY TRANSITS (Gochara) 
XVII EFFECTS ARISING FROM PLANETARY 
POSITIONS AT BIRTH 
APPENDICES --- I ASHTAKAVARGA PLATE 
TI PRECESSION (Ayanamsa) . 
III NAMES OF RASIS AND PLANETS . 
IV AsouT RASIS AND PLANETS 
(Dignities, Debilities, etc.) 
V_ SAPTAVARGA DIVISIONS ‘ 
VI NAKSHATRAS AND VIMSHOTTARI 
DASA 
INDEX -—— VERSES 
INDEX —- SUBJECT MATTER 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 
GLOSSARY 


ERRATA 


CONTENTS 


u oftaroiarta Aa: 
Nl ASH: I 
ASHTAKAVARGA 


AMAA MAAATSAT | 
aaemied Fa TE oA Aa: 1 2 


aa frat aqett aPat ATTA za | 
assamarant Saad Tafa faa 2 0 


qeeq ag: es aazarataaisgeg aalsasat | 
aes: afiqightaagada: gen a Rit 2 1 


any afar atta aaafaegianadd 

alt afagarqaigat: sat aeTizay | 
Hey: HasaMMowmadds Aal ge Aa 

Ugngas Raa Fa: Faearafaq uv ui 


sense tara 
—fraasqadiat granite | 
NANI FSRSAAT 

faaaa aft ater feanearoread tl & 1 


PPAL ET 


CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCING THE SUBJECT 


aia vara — 


anay | aaatssead Teaalest Keg | 
SCR COMIC EI Ect Ga 


GHG What 3 Tent TTT | 
errata at af areal Tas AM 2 


Hor Wasa F arat gferal FT | 
srisoralaerd ay Svea eT NAN 


THOTT ATeTaraT TAHT | 
sagan Rots gar ue 


Slokas 1-4— Maitreya said, “O respected one, you have 
explained the combined effects of the planets, arising out of 
their positions in various bhavas, and their different move- 
ments as accepted by many old sages and Acharyas. It is not 
possible for people to understand and explain all these in 
detail, owing to their sinful deeds and lack of proper 
intelligence, in this Kaliyuga. Therefore, please tell me 
that Shastra which even people of low-intellect can under- 
stand and by which they can know good and bad events 
and the longevity clearly, from the positions of planets at 
the time of consideration.” 


IK sala — 


ang WS eM ery HAA TATA: | 
SrRaTa TAT er TAT UI 


darenieer areas asa | 
AATAZTHRTY ATTA: TT tt & 


4 aeRnt cHaP. I 


Slokas 5, 6 — Parasara replied, “Oh Brahmin, you have put 
the right question. Hear me attentively. I shall tell you 
for the benefit of humanity, the application of that Shastra 
(ie., Ashtakavarga) so as to find out one’s course of worldly 
life and longevity (which is not in any way different from 
what I have explained previously).” 

Notes: These verses are from Uttarakhanda of Brihatparasara 
Horashastra in the Purvakhanda of which Parasara has explained 
about other methods of prediction. 


BANoIMd AA: GAGwId | 

HOT: YARN FHT AT AAT AAT: I 9 I 
& qalzat: Bea areal: | 
TSE TA AAT: BMNAMATITR: Ut < I 
TeMordraers 4 fares | 

Uy AAA: Ah STATA: 11S 
maa ATS Te Gaaratgatear | 

Ms STA T WATE TAAAT Mt Lo UI 
fata ta Taare alas at zecale: | 

fe gahgoreay ag Het TU 22 
ara Aaa saeard Raa | 
Teh: AAT Pepa FeaI | 22 tI 


Slokas 7-12 —‘ The effects, due to the bharas from the 
Lagna, to the 12th bhava (Lagna-about oneself, 2nd bhava- 
wealth, etc.,) are good and increased if the respective bhavas 
are occupied or aspected by benefics or when their lords 
are in exaltation, in their own houses, etc. The reverse 
is the case, if the said bhavas are occupied by malefics, or 
their lords are in debilitation, ot in inimical houses. The 
general effects of this type mentioned by eminent Acharyas, 
learned in Astrology, have been explained by me (in the 
preceding chapters) which are useful in finding out the 
nature of life, longevity, etc. 


sl. 7-14 ASHTAKAVARGA 5 


But (due to the minuteness of the movements of planets 
and the consequent inability to fix their exact positions in 
the horoscope) even sages like Vasishtha and Brihaspati are 
not able to determine these results accurately. Could it 
then be possible for mortals to find them correctly in this 
Kaliyuga ? (Definitely not). 


It is said that the delineations (predictions) from 
Astrology are of two kinds, viz., the general and the parti- 
cular one (special). The general method is from the posi- 
tions of the planets in the different bhavas. Now I shall 
explain the special method (Ashtakavarga) ”. 


TT CAT VAT AMT AA TOT | 
TAA VIA Arcs Fafaaes 0 23 


am eaeeciat awa TK ITH | 
ATA TTT TAA DAT 1 22 


Slokas 13, 14 — Just as the effects of the planets in different 
bhavas are determined from the Lagna and the Chandra 
Lagna, so also, the effects should be found out from the 
positions of other planets, considering each as the Lagna 
and the bhava positions of the planets in respect to that 
planet. The experts in Astrology should consider in this 
manner. Therefore the good and bad effects that arise 
due to the positions of the planets in different bhavas, with 
respect to the Sun and other planets and the Lagna (the 
eight fixed points) are given by me. (This is known as 
the Ashtakavarga system). 


Notes: Thus it is found that there are 8 fixed positions in a 
horoscope namely, the positions of the seven planets and that 
of the ascendant at the time of birth. The positions, favourable 
or unfavourable, are always counted with reference to them. Thus 
a planet can, at the maximum, receive 8 benefic points (marked 
as, 0, fargbindu) in a particular bhave, when he is favourably 
posited from all these 8 fixed positions. If a planet is in a 
bhava unfavourable from all these positions, he receives 8 
malefic points (marked as, 1, Yq rekba). 


6 seat cuaP. I 


This method to determine the places of benefic or malefic 
effects is known as the Ashtakavarga system because of the 8 fixed 
positions. 


QUART s— 
aa faa: alaad ant earsreact aaeetha | 
aq aa ay Gar: ea: aa 4 8 earl wales Il 
Raseusdassa at: MSA daa Baraala | 
gelfa act a Ana aassanlears wpe ANT II 


BAH ATT — 


ag was aia algea a orale | 
Rel UTA Tel WREATH || 


TR HATS TAIT ITH KS STRUTT THA | 
It IIa THe NarzasiangHAT: 1 L4 


Sloka 15 — When planets are moving through the twelve 
bhavas with reference to the bhavas occupied by them ai 
birth, they produce different kinds of effects. Due to varia- 
tions in these effects it cannot be laid down as a rule that 
identical results will be experienced by persons born eveti 
under the same natal star. 


Notes: Computation of Ashtakavarga—from Janmakundali or 
from Chalitakundali ? 

Whether the Ashtakavarga tables are to be prepared from 
Janmakundali or from Chalitakundali (Bhavakundali) is a subject 
of great controversy. Some astrologers prepare the Ashtakavarga. 
from the natal chart i.e., Janmakundali, while others prepare it 
from Bhavakundali. In this book the latter method is adopted 
for the following reasons :— 

1. Consider, that a child is born at a time when Ist degree 
of Kataka sign (3*-1°-0’) is rising and its birth chart is prepared 
with Kataka as the Lagna. It will take nearly two hours according 
to the latitude of the place for Kataka Lagna to end and Simha 
Lagna to rise. After nearly 1 hour and 50 minutes past the 
above birth time, if another child is born in the same city (hospital 
or town) naturally Kataka Lagna will be rising with nearly 3°-28°- 


sl. 15 ASHTAKAVARGA 7 


(” or so. The birth-chart of the second child will have Kataka 
Lagna and the planets will be more or less in the same signs 
as those im the case of the first one. There will be no other 
appreciable difference between these two horoscopes except that 
of the degrees of the Lagna. Hence, their Ashtakavarga tables 
will be identical, if prepared on the rasi basis. Can one dare 
say that the future events on the strength of the same Ashtakavarga 
figures of the above two children will be identical ? Our wise 
Rishis, sages and astrologers did not mean so. 


2. Even in the case of twins born at an interval of 15, 30 or 
45 minutes, having same Lagna rasi, they have their future events 
quite different. One of them may die and the other may survive. 
One becomes a rich man while the other remains poor. Onc 
marries and has children while the other is unable to matry and 
has mo means to pull on life. Why are there such glaring diffe- 
rences in the events, even in the case of twins, born of the same 
womb, morc or less at the same time and having same natal chaxts ? 
There is no reply to this, if the Ashtakavarga tables are prepared 
from Janmakundali. 

3. Shripati in his book “Jataka-paddhati” has meutioned 
that half the sum of two adjacent Bhavamadhyas (cusps) is called 
their fy (Sandhi-junction) which falls in one of the 12 rasis. 
The portion of rasi upto Sandhi belongs to the latter half of the 
previous bhava and the portion after the Sandhi belongs to the 
first half of the next bhava. Hence planets in one rast may give 
the effect of the previous or of the next bbava according to their 
positions with respect to the Bhavasandhi. Planets im two adjacent 
rasis may give the effect of one bhava when they are within the 
Sandhis of that bhava. 


Further om Shripati says, (Chapter I, verse 2) that the 
bbavas should be calculated at the time of birth, journcy, 
assumption of a vow, the tonsure, royal coronation, marriage and 
other auspicious ceremonies. For, it is by calculating bhavas' that 
the effects due to certain Yogas (combinations) are judged accu- 
rately, As such, it is appropriate that for Ashtakavarga also the 
bhava positions should be taken to assess the strength of the 
planets and their effects pertaining to various bhavas. 


4, Usually, a rasi is divided into eight equal parts, each of 
which is called Kakshya ( #&q]) If rasi method it taken, then 


8 ae CHAP. I 


every rasé will have its first Kakshya belonging to Saturn with 
same range of degrees (i.e., from 0° to 3°-45’). The effect of 
Saturn’s transit through that Kakshya whether good or bad should 
be felt by all people, simultaneously. But this is not so in obser- 
vance. Therefore, the Kakshya division should be from the 
beginning of the bhava and not from the rast. Then, for a parti- 
cular zodiacal degree the Kakshya lords will be different according 
to the changes in the Lagna positions. 


5. Moreover, if the Ashtakavarga tables are prepared from the 
Bhavakundali as determined from the longitudes of the various 
planets and the Lagna, one can take into consideration the changes 
in the bhava positions of some planets here and there. This 
seems to be a better view. Kalyanavarma, the celebrated author 
of Saravali and the great astrologer Gunakara, author of Horama- 
karanda, also hold the same view. 


It is therefore necessary that for purposes of preparing 
Ashtakavarga of a native the Chalitakundali (and not the 
Janmakundali) must be considered. This basis has been adopted 
in this book. 


CHAPTER II 
METHOD OF COMPUTING ASHTAKAVARGA 


TAUVAMAGAA TYNYARENGTT | 

meat ala Wt negaerantatiaassey Ut 8 
Sloka 1—The method of computing Ashtakavarga 
(agai) which has been highly spoken of by people 
learned in Astrology, and which can help us to find out 
good and bad effects caused by the planets in transit, 


through the various bhavas (of the zodiac), is now ex- 
plained by me. 


ArTaHattesttar s— 
ah fileeq aeonaraua: 
qifeeanaaraasnrms | 
Tea taal sea — 
frasatahafaeeca: &: 1 


nies wera uke stata asTAATTATY | 
TAMER SHAMS Ah BUETATAART | 2 II 


Sloka 2—Draw the figure of a Rasichakra (uftay ) 
on the floor and insert the planets and the Lagna in thcir 
respective bhavas (as represented by signs) as it was at the 
time of birth. Place the beads in the respective bhavas as 
directed in the columns, always beginning with the bhava 
occupied by the particular planet from which the good 
positions are considered. 

Notes: Im olden days when writing materials paper, etc., were 
not in vogue, the astrologers used to draw horoscopes on the 
ground and used beads, etc. 


BEAT — 
sreatieg area aaidlal aurnag | 
nenzhaendt fiat |! 
wRas Pas HeaeRieat | 
qr ea fafeadiatsacnarg tI 


10 aR CHAP. II 


TATA AATMTa SATA THT | 

TU KAMAN AAT TAME U3 
Sloka 3— Designate the several rasis occupied by the 
planets at the time of birth, as their respective Lagnas for 
computing the bizdus in the proper bhavas. The effects 
of the bindus in a bhava are to be predicated in 8 ways 
according to the bhava position it (this bhava) bears from 
the 8 fixed points, in the Ashtakavarga of the planet whose 
transit is considered. 
Notes: See chapters V and XVI for further details. 


erarard — 
WHS Dal aa Raa SEA, * | 
targa aaa ANRSeTS Fe: II 


antl — 
FLAGS Meal ARAM F EA | 
ARAN Ga BSAA ATTA: |I 
The Standard Horoscope. 
Birth place Palghat; Latitude 10°-45’N.; Longitude 
76°-52’E; Ayanamsha 22°5’9”; Sunrise 5-53 L.T.; Sunset 5-54 
L.T.; Date of birth  14-9-1874; Lecal Time 11-524 p.m. ; 


Lagna Dashama 
2s 10° 
4° , 28° 

37’ 50’ 


*In this book verses marked with an asterisk designate rekba 
as a benefic point and bindu as a malefic point. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 11 


Samvat Year 1930; Bhadrapad — Sudi— 3/4 (Tithi) Monday 
night ; Swati 3rd Pada ; Ishta Ghati 44G-56 Pal. 


The same horoscope according to the system followed 
in South India. 


Planetary positions with their daily motions :-- 


i Mer-Jupi ‘Ven. Sat Rabe: ‘Ketu Man- 
di 


Planets ' Sun Moon Mars ccury! ter > us 


Sun? 4-62 og YB SG me. OO 


: : i 


Degrees. 29 13 7 | 5 [1 15. 16 


137 11 20 | 20 


Daily | ° 
Motion ; 28" 


l R- 
8! (70 ver L0G! 1g" Ga) 2h gta 
| 50" | tas ; 40": 38" 31" oe ata 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at the time of birth:-~- 
8 years, 8 months, 7 days; ( Vimshottari Dasa System ). 


12 


¢ 


ACR 


CHAP, I 


CE Se eed ea ere EL eA A I 
The twelve bhavas with their Sandhis :— 


Blasts | 1 a | 2 a | 3 | a 4 | q 
| | 
Sign | 2 2 | 3 3 | 4 | 4 | 5 
a 
| | 
Degrees 4 18 2 16 | 0 | 14 | 28 14 
Minutes) 37 : 39 | 41 | 44 | 46 | sg | 50 | 48 
| 


: | } 
Bhavas. 5 | aq 6 aq, 7 a 8 aq 
i | i 
Sen | 6}; 6 | 7] 7: 8! 8 | 9! 9 
| | 
| 
Degrees) 0 | 16 | 2) 18 | 4 / 18 | 2 | 16 
t | 
Minutes) 46 | 44 41 | 39 | 37 | 39 | 41 44 
| | 
Bhavas| 9 a | 10 aiu a | 12 a 
Sign | 10 10 | 10 ll ; 0 0 | 1 1 
! 
Degrees} 0 | 14 | 28 | 14 0 | 16 | 2/1 18 
iN teh tr ee ee 
i 
i 


Minutes; 46 


ASHTAKAVARGA 13 


Bhava or Chalita Chart. 


SHADVARGA BALA:— 


( Calculated as per Jataka-paddhati of Shripati ) 


Stas 


] Positional 
Strength 


| Sun | Moon | Mars | Merc. | Jupi. lv enus Sat. 

Rupa (| 3 | 2{ 1] 4] 2] 2] 3 

Kala | s2 | 17 | 59 | a8 | a3 | 53 | 6 

Vikala | 49 | 44 | 15 | 7 | 58 | 5 | 51 

eal Rey ol coe 

Kala | f | 4S | 7 | 29 | a at = Directional 
9 


Vikala | 17 | 5 | 16 | 40 | 21 | 24 | Strength 


0 


fevas 


14 ate CHAP. II 


MOIS 
Temporal 


Beret ate nS gpa eS hea rt eT 


| 
| 
| 0 | 3 

Kaa ' 32) 4 | | 1 | | pecaial 
Vina | 4 738 | 0} 6 |e | a | Stow 
Rupe | Vi oT oy 0. Of of | setieas 
Kaa of sti i oi a) a@2!] 8ian 
Vikala | 0 j 2 | 8 ; @ | 17 | 51 | 34 | Stenath 
Rupa; -0 0 0) 0 | 0; -0 +0 —_ 
Kala | 9} 10; 10; 8! 8 | 10 | 33] yey 
Vikala | 34 | 12 | 30 | 49 | 39 1 28 | 43 | Strength 


Rupa 


Kala 20 ie “45 eae ie I SS cap ue Grand Total 


Vikala | 52 


Minimum 
| Standard 


‘Power |Power! ‘Power |Power | ‘Power | Wer 
ful | -ful -ful , -ful wen ful pty 


Note:—In some cases Kalabala (@eae) and Ayanabala ( eae ) 
are combined together as the total Kalabala. 


1 Rupa = 60 Kalas (Shastyamsa ); 1 Kala = 60 Vikalas 


Bhava Strength (in Shastyamsas, Rupas, etc., ) 


I Il Il IV | Vv VI Bhava 
Strength in 
522.147 | 440.903 396.351 427.085 427.521 434.794 Shastyamsas 
8 -—42-9 7-20-54 6-36-21 7-7-5 | 7-7-31 7-14-47 Strength in Rupas, 
(1) (7) (12) (10) | (9) (8) Kalas and Vikalas 
VI | Vill IX X XI XII Bhava 
7 Strength in 
398.618 507.397 508.092 482.494 493.141 499.461 Shastyamsas 
6 — 38 — 37 8-27 - 24 8-28-5 82-30 8-13-8 8-19-28 Strength in Rupas, 
(11) (3) (2) (6) (5) (4) Kalas and Vikalas 


VOUAVAVAV.LHSV 


ct 


SAPTA-VARGAS ( RASI NUMBER AND THEIR LORDS ):— 


| Lagna | Sun | Moon | Mars Mercury Jupiter © Venus | Saturn | Rahu : Ketu : Mandi 
oie z= a a oe ae 6 6 7 , 10 re be yd 

| Mercury | Sua . | ene ‘Sun _ Mercury | Mercury Venus Saturn : Mars Venus | ee 
Hora Sun | Moon Sun | Sun Moon | Sun | Moon : Sun | Sun | Sun Sun 
eae or i al eo 3 hom 2 ee ee 

Mercury | Mars | Satu | Sun ' Mercury Saturn | Satum , Venus | Mars | Venus Sun 
Saptamamsa | Moon oo a a Mare Merouy satu 3 tens } ae ; fiers Percy 
Navamsa Mars see | | ae hee c- Vows | | es | Venus ae i slices Moon 
Dwadasamsa : Moon | ee rare | Vents | Mars nies | ‘a ettOen 2 japuee Sn 
Trimsamsa | Mars | Venus | Jupiter | Saturn [Mercury Jeplter | Jupiter’ Saturn , Saturn | Jupiter 


Jupiter | 


ol 


II ‘aVHO 


sl. 4-5 ASHTAKAVARGA 17 


KAMA TATH TIATTATE TOMA TTA | 
Daft Geox cyl BATAHTATSy 1 2 UI 


Sloka 4—In the Sun’s Ashtakavarga he is auspicious 
from -— 


(a) himself in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses ; 

(b) the Moon in the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses ; 

(c) Mars in the same houses as from the Sun ; 

(d) Mercury in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 
12th houses ; 

(e) Jupiter in the 5th, 6th, 9th and 11th houses ; 

(f) Venus in the 6th, 7th and 12th houses ; 

(g) Saturn in the same houses as from the Sun ; and 

(h) the Lagna in the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th 
houses. 


Notes: Parasara first enumerates the malefic places and then the 
benefic places in the preparation of Ashtakavarga. He says that 
the house occupied by a planet whose Ashtakavarga is considered, 
should be taken as the Lagna and the succeeding houses as the 
2nd, 3rd, etc. In the Sun’s Ashtakavarga the number of malefic 
points in each bhava from the Sun is given ; then the names of 
the planets contributing them. The same method is followed to 
enumerate benefic places. 


The malefic point is called Karana or bindu and the benefic 
one, rekba or Sthana (Parasara, Yavanas etc.,) while the authors 
in South India (Mantresvara, Vaidyanath etc.) call the malefic 
point, rekba and benefic one, bindu. In this book benefic points 
are termed as bindus and malefic ones as rekbas. The verses 
which differ from this nomenclature are marked with an asterisk 
throughout the book. The Parasara method of putting points, 
being cumbersome, this book gives the verses from Prasnamarga. 
They (mnemonic verses) are easy to memorise and apply. 


ae: Read gurcatrs fara 
HIS Wasan Waaretaraaed At: | 
Re 
Reatatiie sate aire aatlecarraa Ut A 


a 


18 ate: cuap. II 


Sloka 5—In the Moon’s Ashtakavarga she is auspicious 
from :— 


(a) the Sun in the 3rd, 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th 


houses ; 

(b) herself in the 1st, 3rd, 6th, 7th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 

(c) Mars in the 2nd, 3rd, Sth, 6th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 


(d) Mercury in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, Sth, 7th, 8th, 10th and 
11th houses ; 

(e) Jupiter * in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 

(f) Venus in the 3rd, 4th, Sth, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 

(g) Saturn in the 3rd, Sth, 6th and 11th houses ; and 

(h) the Lagna in the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses. 


Thus the several auspicious places considered from 8 
fixed points beginning with the Sun and ending with the 
Lagna have been given. 


ataey Tats fecal grader | 
Trae: Te BA: ar afr & I 
BITRE TH BAT SATATT | 
Slokas 6, 6(4) —In Mars’ Ashtakavarga he is auspicious 
from :— 
(a) the Sun in the 3rd, Sth, 6th, 10th and 11th houses ; 
(b) the Moon in the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses ; 
(c) himself in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 
(d) Mercury in the 3rd, Sth, 6th and 11th houses ; 
(e) Jupiter in the 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses ; 
(f) Venus in the 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th houses ; 
(g) Saturn in the 1st, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; and 
(h) the Lagna in the Ist, 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses. 


*JIn the Ist, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses from 
Jupiter according to Bribat-jateka and Saravali, 


sl. 6-94 ASHTAKAVARGA 19 


PaoUt CT TAT FATAT ITT IN 9 II 
TTT TAT ArT TUTIATITL | 
TA tate TerHaSaag TAS Ih <I 


Slokas 7, 8—In Mercury’s Ashtakavarga he is auspi- 
cious from :— 
(a) the Sun in the 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th houses ; 
. (b) the Moon in the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 
(c) Mars in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses ; 
(d) himself in the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 
12th houses ; 
(e) Jupiter in the 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th houses ; 
(f) Venus in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 
11th houses ; 
{g) Saturn in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses ; and 
(h) the Lagna in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses. 


ret Graareraaa TNT F | 
TENA TATA ads TRS IS 1 
Haftaas delat wakesaTsary | 


Slokas 9, 9(#) —In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga he is auspi- 
cious from :-— 
(a) the Sun in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th 
and 11th houses ; 
(b) the Moon in the 2nd, 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th houses ; 
(c) Mars in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 
(d) Mercury in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses ; 
(e) himself in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 
11th houses ; 
(f)Venus in the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th and 11th 


houses ; 


20 aon: CHAP. II 


(g) Saturn in the 3rd, 5th, 6th and 12th houses ; and 
(h) the Lagna in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, Sth, 6th, 7th, 9th, 
10th and 11th houses. 


Peg BH SAK TIATIRT I Lo I 
SVT A TUT TAT TEL | 
Keamgaas saacatrar Taal 8k 


Slokas 10, 11—In Venus’ Ashtakavarga she is auspici- 
ous from :— 
(a) the Sun in the 8th, 11th and 12th houses ; 
(b) the Moon in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 11th 
and 12th houses ; 
(c) Mars* in the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th 
houses ; 
(d) Mercury in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th and 11th houses ; 
(e) Jupiter in the 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses ; 
(f) herself in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th 
and 11th houses ; 
(g) Saturn in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 
(h) the Lagna in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 
11th houses. 


HAA MAGN ATH SAH TOAAATAT | 
IA HATH ATR TUT TTETAT I LR 
gohan Ae wen sade vata | 
aa: BIaIgHeTAT ATT N23 1 


Slokas 12, 13 —In Saturn’s Ashtakavarga he is auspicious 
from :— 
(a) the Sun in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 
(b) the Moon in the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses ; 
(c) Mars in the 3rd, 5th, Gth, 10th, 11th and 12th 
houses ; 


*In the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th houses from Mars 
according to Bribat-jataka. Here Saravali follows Parasara. 


.s}, 10-14 ASHTAKAVARGA , 21 


(d) Mercury in the 6th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th 
houses ; 

(e) Jupiter in the 5th, 6th, 11th and 12th houses ; 

(f) Venus in the 6th, 11th and 12th houses ; 

(g) himself in the 3rd, 5th, 6th and 11th houses ; and 

(h) the Lagna in the Ist, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th and 1ith 
houses. 


In this manner the auspicious positions have been 
mentioned by me in order, by figures represented by the 
consonants. These bindus are to be recorded from the 
houses occupied by the planets and the Lagna in preparing 
Ashtakavarga of each planet. 


Notes: It is seen that there is a difference between Parasara 
and Varahamihira, in the case of Jupiter, in the Moon’s Ashtaka- 
varga and of Mars in that of Venus’ Ashtakavarga. This may not 
affect the Samudayashtakavarga figures much but in the Bhin- 
nashtakavarga this might bring a difference in the reductions and 
further calculations (as explained later). In this book Parasara 
is followed throughout, since his (and his followers’) works alone 
give the effects of the planets according to their Ashtakavarga 
strength, etc., in detail. Whereas Varahamihira has mentioned 
Ashtakavarga positions only in Brihat-jataka, Ch. IX and has said 
nothing further about the subject. 


Again when the Samudayashtakavarga mnemonic verses 
* are afaai — (infra—Chap. XIV—verses 2, 3)” are considered, 


it is found that this author closely follows Parasara. Mantresvara 
(Phaladeepika) too agrees with this view. 


Tera TAM AKT GAT FEAT aT | 
UBS Fala HAT SMETANA 


Sloka 14—In the mnemonics (slokas 4 to 13) of the 
Ashtakavarga computation, the n, 4- which is zero in the 
Coe) Katapayadi values, here represents 10 i.e., 10th 

ouse. In the same distich when a smaller digit 1 or 2 
comes after a higher one, it should be taken as 11th or 
12th place. 


22 ACHAT: cHAP, II 


Notes: The meaning of Katapayadi system used in South India 
to represent numerical figures in the ancient Sanskrit texts :— 


area s— 
HET RE fSATAST: 
4 Ft Wes FF aT SR Fas Fee |! 
(2) afeaa; (2) afeaa; (2) oie; ( ¥) are 
are the conventions followed to represent numerical figures which 
are easy to memorise. In the case of joint consonants the value 


of the last consonant is to be taken. q and s represent O value 
and the vowels have no numerical value. 


The details are as follows :— 


1 2 3 4 5 67 8 9 0 

* @T7T7as as 8 a (a)—atead; 
zs tm aA aw @e g (a)—x2fera; 

q&a 4a —~—~—-— — —ofus; 
qa t€3 @Waqaze¢e(e) —arw; 


In some verses 9 is represented by z, 
M=HtT=6; W=HtT=2; PA=HtAH1; F=T 
+R=1; B=At+S=3; a9=7+H=0; etc. 

Numbers of more than one digit expressed in the mnemonic 
form are always deciphered from right to left (by the rule aygyqi 
araal afa: |). 

@ay is 8 and 4 should be taken as 48. 

at is 9 and 4 sos S49. 

is 4 and 5 a” oyS os as 54, 
aarwis 7.3 and3, .« 4 as 337. 
is 0, 0,8 and1,, ,,  ,, as 1800. 


Similarly the Moon’s Tables of Vararuchi in mnemonics are 
given below :— 


afta sya: equal to 0® — 12° — 3’ 

30 21 

staat equal to 0* — 24° —9’ 

90 42 

RAISE AKA: equal to 1*— 6° — 22’ 
22 6 Ol 


ASHTAKAVARGA 23 


Ashtakavarga Tables giving the auspicious places -— 


The Sun’s A. V. 48 
a 


q alg /a3(/zl alse 
1} 3/ 1] 3] 57 6] 1] 3 
2) 6| 2] 5! 6] 7] 2; 4 
4110) 4] 6; 9]12] 4] 6 
7/11} 7) 9; 11 7110 
8 8! 10 8 | 11 
9 91/11 9; 12 
10 10 | 12 10 
Il 11 11 
The Moon’s A. V. 49 Mars’ A. V. 39 
tlala/alajajssaqla; sg a/szialseliayja 
1/ 2} 1] 1] 3} 31 3] 3] 1} 3] 6} 6] 1] 1] 3] 8 
3/ 3! 31 21 41 51 61 6] 2; 5]/10] 8] 4/) 3) 5] 6 
6; 5| 4] 41 5) 6/10] 7) 4] 6] Il) 11} 7; 6+ 6) 11 
7| 61 5| 7) 7/41/11] 8] 7] 12412) 12; 8; 10) 10 
10;:9} 7] 8} 9 10] 8 9/11); 11 
11/10; 8] 10] 10 11 | 10 10 
11) 10) 11) 11 Il il 
Il 
pci Ms Sa ee eh! AN Ae Ne 
ce i a ae ig a a 
Mercury’s A. V. 54 ; Jupiter’s A. V. 56 
gsigigi/alssiaqlal/ apa! Sl Ass Al aya, gs 
PGE AL Pe Sl Sh a 2) Se Br Ti Pacey ay Ss 
3] 8| 2] 2] 2] 6] 41 27 2; 5] 5] 27 2] 5] 2] 2 
5i11| 31 41 4] 91 6] 4] 3] 61 6) 4] 3] 7 4; 4 
6/12/ 41 71 6/11] 8| 77 4] 9] 12; 5] 4 9} 7) 5 
9 5; 8; 8/12/10, 8] 7/10 6/ 7/11] 8] 6 
10 8; 9] 10 11 | 9] 8/11 7| 8 10! 9 
1l 9/10/11 10110 9/ 9 11 | 10 
12 11) 11 11} 11 10 | 10 ll 
11} 11 


24 ‘awa: cuap. I 


Venus’ A. V. 52 Saturn’s A. V. 39 
Siale qltlalg i gfalsl/qlal alg aly 
1; 3] 1) 8/ 1) 3] 34 5} 3] 13 1] 34 3] 6] 5) 6 
2} 4] 2/11] 2; 4] 5} 8] 5] 3] 2] 6] 5] 8] 6/11 
3/} 5) 3/12) 3) 6] 6) 9] 6} 4] 4$11} 6] 9]11] 12 
4/ 8] 4 4/ 9} 9; 10411] 6} 7 10 | 10 | 12 
5} 9] 5 5711/11) 11 10} 8 11/11 
8/10) 8 8112 11 | 10 12 | 12 
9; 11; 9 9 11 
10 11 ll 
1l 12 


carafe AtRasesatsatie oP 
TT ATR Tea VG afte ReremeeaT 2 HI 


Sloke 15—In the above slokas of computing Ashtaka- 
varga the order followed, begins with the Sun and ends 
with the Lagna. (But in Brihat-jataka- Chapter EX, slokas 
1 to 7 give the order of donors which has to be followed 
in Trikona and Ekadhipatya Shodhanas). When reduc- 
tion is to be made the planet which has contributed the 
first bindu will have his bindu eliminated. (Refer to verse 
No. 12, Chapter No. X). 


JEMlas — 

SARK: TIAA G fT TEN AMTN TAT 

arenes dees wer eg | 
wtaradgaragy caraTarta: ata 

Waraas: Fy A TNS aa: || 
wary TR: aay TTR 

STEAMY aTewaY Wa: Tate TAIT | 
dpareaaety afrsrstarerararen: 

Fag arg waadharareaerraya: |! 
TREAT ATTN AHI RAT— 

watery tahanmata: wegT: | 
qalaereisharacard eaten: : 

PU REMC We: salTOrARy | 


sl. 15 ASHTAKAVARGA 


Order of donors of bindus 


3 4 5 
Mars | Sat. | Venus! Jupi. | Moon 
ee Mars | Moon | Sun | Sat. | Merc. 
Sun |Lagna! Moon Mars | Sat. | Merc. 
3 | | 
.| Venus | Sat. | Mars Jui. | Sun inal 
1 
Mars | Jupi.; Sun ccs Moon| Sat. 
H 1 
Lagna | Moon | Venus| Sat. | Sun | Jupi. 
| i 
Sat. | Mars | Sun pan Mere. | Moon 
| 


Merc. 


Jupi. 


Venus 


| Moon 
| 

| Merc. 
Merc. 


Venus 


25 


Lagna 


Venus 
Jupi. 
Lagna 
i 

Lagna 


Mars 


Jupi. 


Notes — This is the order of the donors of bindus in each planet's 
Their uses are referred 
to in other places where reductions are applied. 


Ashtakavarga mentioned in Brihat-jataka. 


NIMS: FAY WISI Geaaaiftaegu: 
aay Taegan ase: | 
waaay afta: ar aaa: 
FASTA feat: aay aR _A: |I 
Raearnsaatryg goad aaa: 
alg afaag fteaaavenntat arta | 
araadaaeny Randa Fagdtaat 
feria sa seta, |I 
BARIGIAIIAA: GRIT VISIT fa: 
aM aay gabriaacaRaae: aan | 


26 SEH: cHapP. II 


Trea Warum T- 
—aistrarrartnsrare gaara: Sarg II 
We: ad RaaAaAAy Hr TIARA wean 
FarasaataangTaaaay Fa Weng | 
walazaragay gaa ATERR: 
Ware: Raq GR Naha |! 


et fafatte Aearatzaer— 
TABS AAT Zz: | 
srr: gets 
SC EOULC TRICO CC Oe 


Sloka 16— The places that are mentioned above produce 
auspicious results and the rest cause inauspicious results. 
In any sign (bhava), taking into consideration all the bindus 
(good) and rekhas (bad) indicated by the planets at the 
time of birth, only so much bear fruit as remain after 
cancellation against one another. The good results of the 
bindus that remain when in Upachaya (3rd, 6th, 10th and 
11th) houses, in friendly or own houses or in exaltation, 
prove increasingly auspicious ; while in Apachaya houses, 
in inimical houses and in debilitation houses become 
weakened, during the transit of the respective planet whose 
Ashtakavarya is considered. 


Notes— (1) The nett excess of rekbas over bindus produces 
greater malefic results in Apachaya houses and they are a little 
improved in Upachaya houses. (2) Similarly it can be seen that 
houses containing 28 or more bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga 
prove auspicious and those having less than 28 bindus are inauspi- 
cious during the transit of any planet. (Ref. Chap. XIV — 
verse No. 7). 


BUTReS: — 
waters sara Zeer: 
ad aad aastians <q: aaa: | 
fratvaataa saat gta ward 
| fawpatraaigazaeman ss GS AY AA MI 


sl. 16-17 ASHTAKAVARGA 27 


ena — 
RS WIAA AHA Te: 
TATA Aaah ceetaTST | 
egearagequeg gai Ted alas at 
AarIMEhETgs Tel A GTR FA |I 
Safraawanren: — 
ena afa sfareaia als arate Taz | 
waaimetrs Tes ATTA Asha TET Il 


2 ah regent yes FATTEHTAATE: | 
TAA TA ATT ASA: 


FA TACT: AATATH (2 
Sloka 17 — The total number of bindus received by the 
planets beginning with the Sun are 48, 49, 39, 54, 56, 52 and 
39 respectively. The aggregate of all these bindus is 337 
which is called (aqzr) Samudaya bindus ; the sum total 
of all the Bhinnashtakavargas (i.e., the seven planets) is 
called Samudaya. 


SIAHIZQALRT — 
Za} aay efit eq: erat Tat fra: Hea! 
seqireaRades: Tics: II 
STARA — 
BIT ATARI AAW: SITGPTHT AT | 
Waa FEN aa: RATSHATSEM: | 
Elsewhere :— @@ ght: aa Tar alia sar HAI | 


_ These are the rekbas (malefic points) for the planets 
from the Sun onwards ; viz., 48, 47, 57, 42, 40, 44 and 57 
respectively totalling 335. 

The (eight) donors are the seven planets and the 
Lagna while receipients are the seven planets only. This 
will be observed by taking a comparative view of the 
donors of the bindus given in the verses 4 to 13. Figures 
given in the third column show the number of places in 
which the respective planet is auspicious from the Moon 
(Gochara for the Moon) which is usually given in the 
standard works as Gochara. 


28 areal: cHaP. I 


s & 
@ 8 


<—Receipients——> 
[aay = 
[=] 
2 =& 
og feo} 
g 
w oO on on 


Notes — Application of the rules for preparing Ashtakavarga of 
the Standard Horoscope :— 

In preparing Ashtakavarga tables, to denote the benefic place 

a bindu ‘0’ is put and to denote a malefic place a rekba‘ ? 

(vertical line) is put. The donors of bindus or rekbas are the seven 

planets (Sun to Saturn) and the Lagna, Thus in the Ashtaka- 

varga chart of amy planet there can be maximum 8 bindus and 
minimum nil in any house. 

The Sun’s Ashtakavarga :— 

The Sun is said to be auspicious in ( qaTs) ie., in the 

Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses from his posi- 

The Sun’s Ashtakavarga tion (the house occupied by him). 

from himself. In the Standard Horoscope 

the Sun is in the 4th house frem 

NORCO the Lagna. So starting from 


the position of the Sun, bindus 


ie., benefic points are marked each 
in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 
10th and 11th houses, The 
remaining houses are marked with 


rekbas. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 29 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
from the Moon, 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
from Mars. 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
from Mercury. 


The Moon is posited in the 5th 
house from the Lagna. The Sun 
is benefic in (aad) the 3rd, 6th, 
10th and 11th houses from the 
position of the Moon. Starting 
from the position of the Moon, 
bindus are marked each in the 
3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses. 
The remaining houses are marked 
with rekbas. 


Mars is in the 3rd house from 
the Lagna. The bindus are marked 
in ( garageras ) the Ist, 2nd, 
4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses from Mars. The remain- 
ing houses are marked with 
rekbas. 


Mercury is in the 4th house 
from the Lagna. The Sur is 
benefic in ( qomftaamy ) the 3rd, 
Sth, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th 
houses from Mercury. The te- 
maining houses are marked with 
rekbas. 


30 TERT CHAP. II 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
from Jupiter. 


Jupiter is in the 5th house from 
the Lagna, therefore the bindus, 
beginning with that house, are 


marked in ( auf ) the 5th, 6th, 
9th and 11th houses. 


LE 
Sox 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
from Venus. 


Venus is in the 5th house from 
the Lagna. The Sum is benefic 
in( g=dex the 6th, 7th and 12th 
houses from Venus. 


. 
2 


SOx 
oe 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
from Saturn. 


Saturn is in the 8th house from 
the Lagna. The Sun is benefic in 
( ; )the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses from Saturn. 


KOK 
KS 


ASHTAKAVARGA 31 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
from the Lagna. 


Lastly take the Lagna or ascen- 


dant. The Sun is benefic in( By- 
arta ) the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th, 
11th and 12th houses from the 
BS Lagna. The Lagna is in Mithuna. 


All the bindus and rekbas can be put in one chart as shown 
below. Add together all the bindus in the Lagna i.e., the 1st house 
), in each of the above eight charts and get the figure 
tepresenting the total number of bindus in the Sun’s Ashtaka- 
varga. In the same way the totals for the remaining eleven 
houses are made. Similarly totals for rekbas also should be made. 
This final process of totalling of bindus completes the prepara- 
tion of the Sun’s Ashtakavarga. The bindus cam be marked in 
one chart by taking the house occupied by each planet and the 
Lagna as the starting point. 


The maximum number of bindus possible in a house can be 
8 and the minimum nil. Usually the sum of the bindus alone is 
put in each house, omitting the rekbas which can be obtained by 
deducting the number of bindus from 8. The sum of the bindus 


32 AERA: cnap. II 


in each bhava received by the Sun, from the various donors, is 
known as the Bhinnashtakavarga of the Sun. 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga. 
(48 bindus ) 


Similarly the Bhinnashtakavarga tables of the Moon and other 
planets can be prepared. They are as follows :— 


The Moon’s Ashtakavarga Mars’ Ashtakavarga 
(49 bindus ) ( 39 bindus ) 


Mercury’s Ashtakavarga Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga 
(54 bindus ) ( 56 bindus ) 


sl. 18-21 ASHTAKAVARGA 33 


Venus’ Ashtakavarga See Saturn’s Ashtakavarga 
(52 bindus ) (39 birdus) 


KOK KS 


TY UT TREAT BHT RATA | 
anferanqae: aereaemriat tl Lo II 


Ren dears Fe: Heer: | 
TU TY Tat ae DH Pay ga 28 


ofa caer FA aa aleTTY TA | 
aa geet a B MI GHA Il Ro I! 


aaTA gat AH ea eT FAT MRE AI 


Slokas 18-21 — The Lagna is auspicious from :— 

(a) the Sun in the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses ; 

* (b) the Moon in the 3rd, 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses ; 

(c) Mars in the Ist, 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses ; 

(d) Mercury in the ist, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses ; 

(e) Jupiter in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, Sth, 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses ; 

(f) Venus in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, Sth, 8th and 9th houses ; 

(g) Saturn in the Ist, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th and 11th houses ; 
and 

(h) the Lagna in the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses. 

aa, 2 


iy 


34 ACHAT: CHAP. II 


The total bindus received by the Lagna are 49 only. 
The Lagna’s Ashtakavarga Table 


q ee I/gl/als 
3! 3 1| 1 as ae A ae 
4i 6/ 3] 2] 2/ 2] 3] 6 
6/10) 6) 4 4; 3] 4/10 
0/11/10) 6) 5 4/ 611 
11/12/11 | 8| 6 5 | 10 
12/ | (10/7) 8/11 

“| 9 9 

ED [ye a sae 

og ell 

i } t t 

The Lagna’s Ashtakavarga 
( 49 bindus ) 


aaa 


YB NN 


Notes — The use of the Lagna Ashtakavarga :— 

It has been found that the Lagna Ashtakavarga is used only 
for Ayurdaya (longevity). The reason being that in the Bhin- 
nashtakavargas of the several planets, the auspicious places from 
the Lagna have been taken into consideration and the sum of 
bindus received by each planet includes b:ndus contributed by the 
Lagna too. 

Again in the Lagna Ashtakavarga the auspicious positions 
given from the Lagna are the same in order and places, as those 
given under the various Bhinnashtakavargas. This is contrary 
to the conception accepted for the Ashtakavarga consideration of 
the planets ; for, the seven planets through their transits become 
capable of donating and receiving bindus, whereas the Lagna being 
fixed and having no transit, is not supposed to receive biadus in 
the same sense as the planets. 


sl. 22 ASHTAKAVARGA 35 


Some astrologers add the Lagna Ashtakavarga bindus again ta 
( aaararerai ) the Samudayashtakavarga total of 337 which is 
only a duplication of the Lagna bindus. If 337, the total for 
Samudayashtakavarga figure is divided by 12, the quotient 28 
represents the average for each bhava. All books mention good 
effects for any bhava when the bindus are 28 or above. This 
shows that the figure 28 is the turning point. If the Lagna 
Ashtakavarga figure is added to 337, the total becomes 386 which 
gives 32 as average for a bhava. No book has mentioned 32 as 
the turning point. (See Verse 17 and Chap. XIV, Verse 7). 


( FIATATIATA TERERTTNAT: |) 
eae qe aaa 
abe EAE al mT | 
BARAT KAT: HEAT ET SAT Re UI 


Sloka 22 — Rahu is auspicious from :— 

(a) the Sun in the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 8th and 10th 
houses ; 

(b) the Moon in the Ist, 3rd, Sth, 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th 
houses ; 

(c) Mars in the 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 12th houses ; 

(d) Mercury in the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th and 12th houses ; 

(e) Jupiter in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 6th and 8th houses ; 

(f) Venus in the 6th, 7th, 11th and 12th houses ; 

(g) Saturn in the 3rd, 5th, 7th, 10th, 11th and 12th 
houses ; and 

(h) the Lagna in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 9th and 12th houses. 

The total bindus received by Rahu are 43 only. 


Rahuw’s Ashtakavarga Table 


gq s 
1 3 
2 4 
3 5 
Bt el 12:10] 9 
7| 8 11 | 12 
8| 9 12 | 
10/ 10 


36 aaa: cap. IT 


Notes — Only Yavanacharya has mentioned about Rahu’s Ashtaka- 
varga (Ref. ugar, wifawenade and = sateen). 
Since Rahu is a shadow planet (ascending node of the Moon) 
he-has not been allotted ownership of any part in the zodiac. 
It may be for this reason that he is not taken into consideration in 
Samudayashtakavarga along with the 7 planets, nor is he given 
the lordship of any Kakshya. All the same, the Bhinnashtakavarga 
of Rahu may be used in predicting good and bad effects during 
his transit through the vatious bhavas. 


Rahu’s Ashtakavarga 
( 43 bindus ) 


Hox 


CHAPTER III 

TRIKONA & EKADHIPATYA SHODHANAS 
ater a al Th 
THAMINSAT gmasazy & Il ‘ Ut 
afar Bator: wy: wae | 
Patty 3 age aged Ay araag 8 
ana aaa aa aferatt 4 araq | 
aed aateg aa GATT: 1-3 


Slokas 1-3 — Trikonas (trines) are as follows :— 
1. Mesha, Simha and Dhanus are trine to one another ; 
2. Vrishabha, Kanya and Makara 
3. Mithuna, Tula and Kumbha 
4. Kataka, Vrischika and Meena 


” 33 ”» 3? 
33 33 +d bd 
Led 29 ” 39 
In one set of a triad whichever house contains the least 
number of bivdus, that number should be subtracted from 
all the three houses. When one of the three houses is void 
of bindus, no reduction is to be made in the other two 
houses. If the bimdus are equal in all the three houses, 
remove all. 
Notes — For example Iet the Mesha triad contain :— 
(1) 4, 3, 2, The least of the three is 2, substracting that from 
2, 2, 2, the three houses there remain 2 in Mesha, 1 in 


2,1, 0, Simha and O in Dhanus. 
(2) 4, 3, 3, Subtract 3 from all, which leaves 1, 0 and 0. 


(3) 3, 3, 3, Subtract 3 from all, which leaves 0, 0 and 0. 


(4) 4, 3, 0, Subtract 0 from all, there is no change. 


38 sTeRaT: cHapP. III 


(5) 4, 0, 0, Here (a) according to Parasara no change is to he 


made, But (b) Mantresvara says, “uqagayat g weary 
.?? If two houses of a triad are without any bindu, remove 


the bindus in the third house also. It is a rare case to have two 
houses without bizdus in a planet’s Ashtakavarga and much more 
soy to have them in trine to one another. 


In the matter of Trikona-shodhana there are different schools 
of thought according to the interpretation given to “ fiany @ 


aaq aaet fey aad’? One school accepts the view that the 
minimum number should be taken away from all the three houses ; 
while the other school says that the reduction should be carried 
on till, all the three houses contain bindus equal to the minimum. 
In this book the first method is adopted. 


The following charts show the Moon's Ashtakavarga (in the 
Standard Horoscope) figures before and after Trikona-shodhana 
according to both the views :— 


The Moon’s Ashtakavarga { 49 ) 


NS 


I Trikona-shodhana according II Trikona-shodhana according 
to the first view:- to the second view:~ 


sl. 4-8 ASHTAKAVARGA 39 


Sreananfisra: — 
AaRaVNSersargMagraqzqesn: HPASATTA | 
Raargeail aaa sgacaagea ca: anf: Se tl 
Rarnnagy aeahegaachy wadea att | 
a feral ag a anftead aaradear afe ada |l 


war ARiseniace hy Aare aegd 
Ba aa aay a Aa a SAT FEA! 
FURAMAAS GABA Aq Ras 
varaa aa ad fig aa ad enej aa: | 
Notes. The author of Prasnamarga says that in one set of 


triad, if one/two houses contain no bindu, the bindus im the 
others/other house, should be climinated. 


Ekadhipatya-Shodhana 
ag fale Sans wea | 
aed Hels qeIaT FAPTITT 1 8 
efits ae araftay aageatae | 
MTG KS Ca TELAT HOTTH U4 
waa FE Arakay AAA | 
Re Hee aah aageTag Ui & I 
TAM A TAT: BT | 
THAT TAY aa TANT 19 I 
TRISTAN At SAAT | 
FUT TH: TAR IT TAR TNC UI 


Slokas 4-8—1. After Trikonashodhana is over, Ekadhi- 
patyashodhana is to be carried out. 

2. The wise man should make reduction only when 
there are bindus in both the houses of a planet. 

E.g. Mesha, no planet, 2 bindus ; No reduction is 

Vrischika, no planet, no bindu ; to be made. 

3. If the two houses are without planets and have got 
different number of bindus, the smaller figure should be 
subtracted from both the houses. 


40 SENT cuapP, III 


E.g. Mesha, no planet ; Vrischika, no planet 


4 bindus 2 bindus 
Result 4 — 2 = 2 bindus 2—2 = 0 bindu 
‘4 If however, one of the houses has a planet and 
when the bindus in that are less than the other, the smaller 
figure should be deducted from the other only. 
E.g. Mesha having a planet Vrischika, no planet 
2 bindus - : 3 bindus 
Result 2 bindus, no change ) 3 — 2 = 1 bindu 
5. In the above (rule 4) case, if the house having the 
planet has more bindus than the other house, then remove 
all the bindus from the other house having no planet. 
E.g. Mesha having a planet ) Vrischika, no planet 
3 bindus 2 bindus 
Result 3 bindus, no change ) 2 —2 = 0 bindu 
6. If both the houses of a planet are occupied by 
planets, then no reduction is to be made. 
E.g. Mesha having a planet >} Vrischika having a planet 
3, bindus t 1 bindu 
Result 3 bindus, no change 1 bindu, no change 
7. If both the houses of a planet are without planets 
and the bindus are equal, then remove all the bindus from 
both the houses. 
E.g. Mesha, no planet Vrischika, no planet 
3 bindus f 3, bindus 
Result 3 — 3 = 0 bindu 3— 3 = 0 bindu 
8. If bindus in both the houses of a planet are equa) 
and one house alone is occupied by a planet, then remove 
bindus in the other house. 
E.g. Mesha having a planet Vrischika, no planet 
3 bindus 3, bindus 
Result 3 bindus, no change 3 — 3 = 0 bindu 
9. The bindus in Kataka and Simha should be retained 
as they are. 
Notes — Ekadhipatyashodhana means the reduction in respect of 
the two houses (rasis) owned by one common lord, e.g., Mesha 
and Vrischika of Mars, etc. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 41 


- According to the first view :— 


The Moon’s Ashtakavarga The Moon’s Ashtakavarga 
after Trikenashodhana, after Ekadhipatyashodhana. 


BEX 
Za 


According to the second view:— 


The Moon's Ashtakavarga The Moon’s Ashtakavarga 
after Trikonashodhana. after Ekadhipatyashodhana. 


aad oat AAAS wa: TTA | 
TOUAS Vega K aq Fea TAA WaT II 
waqSaagary aenleegqEeary | 
Racuteaead & apaten aaea RA: II 


42 awa: CHAP. IIT 


Qa syhrequal aqearata ase: | 
aa Prater atater career aa: THEA: (I 


SPAR: — 
Ama we ts Aaa a=aeat 
adeaaite ae aa at ata BAT! 
carrera aeatas get a area 
rans’ faaasa a A aS Msy Aa VHT! 


PEPE GUID CUR CCIN CARD Ub If 
Prerantt, carseat a l 
faa falter Seazeot 
TearaTUeragaran nai nat 


Sloka 9 — After the two reductions are carried out, 
multiply the figures in Vrishabha and Simha by 10, those 
of Mithuna and Vrischika by 8, of Tula and Mesha by 7. 
of Kanya and Makara by 5 and those of the remaining rasis 
by their respective rasi numbers i.e., Kataka by 4, Dhanus 
by 9, ect. The sum of these products is known as Rasiguna 
Yoga or Rasipinda ( zits ). If there are no bindus in any 
rasi, multiplication does not arise. 

Again multiply the figures of the houses occupied by 
the Sun, the Moon, Mercury and Saturn by 5, that occupied 
by Mars by 8, Jupiter by 10 and Venus by 7. The 
sum of these products is called Grahaguna Yoga or Graha- 
pinda (aefiz). If more than one planet is in one house, 
then the figures should individually be multiplied by the 
respective multiplier of each planet. The sum of Rasi- 
pinda and Grahapinda is known as (aitafis) Shodhya or 
Shuddhapinda. The use of this Pinda is explained later on. 
Notes — In the Standard Horoscope in the Moon’s Ashtakavarga 
Rasipinda is arrived at as under (according to the first view) :-- 


Sign Bindu Multiplier Product 
Mithuna 3 nx 8 24 
Tula 1 x 7 : 7 
Makara 2 x 5 : 10 
Mesha 3 x 7 : 21 


Total = 62 


sl. 9 ASHTAKAVARGA 43 


In the Moon’s Ashtakavarga Grahapinda is arrived at as 
under :— 


Planet Bindu. Multiplier Product 
Moon 1 x 5 = 5 
Venus 1 “7 = 7 
Jupiter 1 x 10 = 10 
Saturn 2 x 5 = 10 
Total = 32 


The Moon’s Shuddhapinda = 62 + 32 = 94 
Similarly Shuddhapindas of the remaining planets are calcu- 
lated from their respective Ashtakavargas. 


Rasi Multipliers 


ie i a ne Ei. ae! 
pajmlsl@osig aleialgea Rasi 


i 


oe ie ee ee ee ee bo 
7:10) 8 4 10/5 7/8) 9 | 5 (11 12 Multiplier 
fl t ! . : : ¢ i i : : 


Graha Multipliers 


ae idee ee ee 
qiaiaigog gia 


eae eee ‘ ais 
} ! : 
| 
{ i 1 
5 | 


8:5 .10:7.5 


SMAI SATA: — 
heaters qeisaht Rafters ( wa! 
Saas qr: arate TET |G TTT I 
Dormagernnnwar: deretaas- 
draataas ubqasteeara RATT | 
ara: Tahred: atadegintean- 
BC OICCICU MERCI ICUCGHET 
Hae Ta: — 


7108410578 95 11 21 
ware Tareas eva Te: fa: KAT | 
wah  arcanafa aaicl? gon: FATT II 


55 8 5107 5 


44 aeRaT: cHaP. III 


TCE — 

mremaant seca UaTaa Tea | 
REGS Azra HEAT TAAT II 
mea zagtrd agtiigaeat 
apradt g sft: seaararaet at II 
der Saragtra uma ga RATT | 
Sanaa Teaa: HATTA: II 
que deat Tat saga aq great: | 


AUNT —— 
afetragian ated 
aifatarat: agniss<ari | 
PERKS MIFIe GEL 
vefafatte fara: Saati a aye | 


SARTRE: — 
Req: aeakaaraafeaacat alt ax a ale: 
ary ad a are fafizaguaeaatariaaes 
feats det sega fissl gaged 
ea URMaaaagaaga: Bars: II 
Notes —In this verse the author has given in a very concise and 
simple form the rules to be followed for Trikona and Ekadhi- 
patyashodhanas as under :— 

1. In Trikonashodhana subtract the minimum figure out of 
the three houses of a triad irrespective of the figures in them. 

2. No reduction should be made when one house has no 
bindu. 

3. If the three figures in the three houses are equal, remove 
all. 

In the Ekadhipatyashodhana the same rules apply with the 
exception that figures im the house occupied by a planet should 
not be changed. The definition of Shuddhapinda is given. 

DEFINITIONS. 

The sum total of the divdus that remain in various bhavas 
after the two reductions is known as Shodhyavashishta/anreqvafaye). 
The sum of the products of the bindus and the respective rasi 
multipliers is called Rasipinda (arte ), The sum of the pro- 
ducts of the bindus and the respective planet multipliers is called 


ASHTAKAVARGA 45 


Grahapinda (g@(tz), The sum of Rasipinda and Grahapinda 
is known as Shodhyapinda ( apafte ), Shuddhapinda ( geftz ) 
ot Yogapinda ( ayaa ). 
Mantresvara defines Shodhyapinda as, “dah  ahqaNro 
aneqfic xf aga: (Phaladeepika Ch. XXIV, Verse 3). 
It means that the.sum of the bindus remaining after the two 
reductions is called Shodhyapinda. This definition differs from 
that given by other standard authors. 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
it fe pee yg es 
aa - xq 3 q | Planets 
Bhavas 

6} 7; 8{ 9:10] 11] 12) 1 2) 3, 4] 5 | represented 

by vasis 

5 2 4 2 2 4 6 5 4 4 | 4 6 Bindus 

Trikona~ 
ee ee We fe 2 WU ge 
Ekadhi- 

31 0/ Of} O| O|} 2! 2 3 2| 0 4 patya- 
| Shodhana 
aterafine = 16; afte = 142; welts = 62; ateaids = 204. 

The Moon’s Ashtakavarga 
4 pee 
= aq C} 4 | @gZ_ Planets 
Bhavas 

7} 8; 9] 10] 11 | 12 1 2} 34 4 5 6 'Tepresented 

by rasis 

3; 57] 4/ 4] 2] 5] 71 3] 5] SI] 4] 2] Bindus 

| Trikona- 

1 0 0 2 0 0 3 1 3 0 0 0 | Shodhana 

Ekadhi- 
1 0; O| 2 0} 0; 3); 0 3 0 0 0 patya= 
Shodhana 


ahaa = 9; afive = 62; welts = 32; siete = 94. 


46 MOTT: cHap. III 


Mars’ Ashtakavarga 


aq ag i Planets 
, Bhavas 
5 6 4 |represented 
by rasis 
6 4 4 | Bindus 
Trikona- 
5 2 Shodhana 
Ekadhi- 
5 2 0 patya- 
Shodhana 


_aremafite = 10; afte = 88 ; welts = 65; abaige = 153. 
Mercury’s Ashtakavarga 


q 2 
34 - a | | 3 aq ) Planets 
Bhavas 
6 7 8 9; 10; 11 | 12 1 2 3 4 5 |represented 
by rasis 
5 2 6 1 6 5 3 6 4 5 7 Bindus 
Trikona~ 


2 1 2 1 6 Shodhana 


Ekadhi- 
0; 1} 2] 17 6 patya- 


erences Shodhana 
ateqrafe = 13; ofette = 117; nafte = 53; shafts = 170. 


Jupiter's Ashtakavarga 
| 
5 aq & 4) ]g, Planets 
: Bhavas 
7 8 9] 10; 11} 12! 1 2 3 4 5 6 | represented 
by rasis 


4 6 5 2 5 5 4 5 7 5 4 4! Bindus 


o} 1} 1] 0) 1] of} of 3] 3] of of 2 tne 


Ekadhi- 
0; 1 1/0} 17 0]; OF 3] 1] OF Of 2 patya 
Shodhana 


ateafive = 9; aefte = 76; sefte = 20; shafts = 96. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 47 


ae pid 
Venus’ Ashtakavarga 

a3 a 3 a4 |@aq} Planets 

q 

Bhavas 

7/8] 9/10] 11) 12) 1| 2; 3] 4] 5 | 6 |represented 

by rasis 

5 5 2 5 5 1 4 5 5 6 6 3 Bindus 

‘ Trikona- 

o| 4} of} 2] of of 2] 2] Of] 5] 4] OF ghodhana 

| Ekadhi- 

0} 2 0; 2 0; oo}; O}] 2; OF 5; 44] 0 patya 

'  Shodhana 

SS —————— 

atenafirg = 15; afte = 106; aefie = 42; steqite = 148. 

Saturn’s Ashtakavarga 

a B | a |ag = Planets 

Bhavas 

10 ; 11 | 12 1 2| 3 4 6 7\ 8 g | represented 


| : by rasis 
1 2 6 3 3 5 3 5 4 2 2 3 | Bindus 
2 


Trikona- 
3} 0) 0} 0) ‘Spothana 


Ekadhi- 
re Pec es lc Ma Pcs GP ts mes 


Shodhana 


atmafie = 12; ofits = 107; vale = 46; ateate = 153. 
Lagna Ashtakavarga 


Planets 


1 
‘ 


Bhavas 
3); 4} 5) 6! 7 8} 9110} 11} 12 1 | 2 ‘represented 
i by rasis 
6) 4] 5/2] 5] 51 44) 4] 41 4] 41 2] pings 


' Trikona- 
2 0 1 0 1 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 | Shodhana 


| Ekadhi- 
2; 0] 1) 0} 1) 1 | oo; 2; 0] 0; Oj 0; patya- 


Shodhana 
alerts = 7; afatte = 51; vefte 40; safte = 91. 


CHAPTER IV 
BHAVA AND BINDU PHALA 
at atkeafanainteary | 

a aamitd « Reena Re nen 
TH AT AHA A MTT THA | 
ae dyge Fa aaa Tass 18 
wand agent afer a Gaz! 
qaagaandiat ager fate 2 
wae stra aeaATATAa Faz: | 
ate sah ait arqasa aaa |e 
Wer TET wert a ass | 
rata g Tae rave ates af: 1 


aides WA TT eereEleIUTy | 
Ral FT CHMAATTRST |S Al 


aleal FIT TI TAIT | 
ata t a erate fafa tt 


Slokas 1-7 From the Lagna one should consider the 
form of the body and of the different parts of the body. 
From the second bhava, truth, well being and wealth are 
considered. The third bhava denotes voice, character, 
valour and brothers (sisters). The fourth bhava decides 
happiness, relations, residence and all about one’s mother. 
From the fifth bhava innate disposition, broad outlook 
and learning are considered. The sixth bhava denotes 
internal enemies, sickness, etc. From the _ seventh 
bbava all about any (short) journey and the well-being of 
wife are known. The eighth bhava denotes mental 
troubles, diseases, death and destruction. The ninth bhava 
decides about the fortune, the preceptor and religious apti- 
tude. From the tenth bhava devotion to duty, valour, brave 


sl. 1-11 ASHTAKAVARGA 49 


actions, knowledge of sciences, fame and preknowledge of 
things to come (both seen and unseen) are known. From 
the eleventh bhava are known opulence and acquisition of 
wealth. The twelfth bhava denotes expenses, sinful deeds, 
destruction of body and its causes.§ 
ag ena aaa: | 
WaeaTa FY AAA AAT ATA TT: tc A 
atem: fata aan fen ernest: | 
qpreneraety Padi gaat: 1 8 
Rrra Best | 
afeiarat qe: aarsht Rafa tl Yo 
EN 
UIA AHS: Ms TURBAN | 22 I 
Slokas 8-11 — An intelligent person should consider about 
the 12 bhavas accordingly. The bhava occupied by a 
malefic planet destroys the effects of the things denoted by 
that bbava. A benefic planet in a particular bhava accom- 
plishes the things denoted by that bhava. If there are 
both malefics and benefics in a bhava, the person gets mixed 
effects so far as that bhava is concerned. The planets 
occupying the 6th, 8th and 12th bhavas give opposite 
results, i.e., if a malefic planet occupies that bhava, he gives 
good results but if a benefic planet occupies it, he 
gives bad results. Even a malefic planet occupying a 
friend’s house or his own exaltation, gives good results ; 
while a*benefic planet occupying an inimical house or his 
own depression or in combust, becomes hostile. 
All the above points should be considered before deci- 
ding the effects of a particular bhava. 
Rear — 
GMS? TVVATAATE RAST | 
ArniewwaspaRaas Fay II 
aes ga maa gear afe | 
RMA Baer: WH wWaTAReTaT I 
§ Cf. Jataka-parijata, Chap. XI, Verses — 13, 49 ; Chap. XII, 
Verses — 1, 2, 59; Chap. XIII, Verses—1, 71; Chap. XIV, 
Verses — 1, 48, 65 ; and Chap XV, Verses — 1, 67, 75. 


a. Fe 


50 TORT: cHAP. IV 


areas Maria Te: FAT | 
alge 3 Maa THA 1 LR 
mraaed got afi wita g Afaaag | 
marae ath fara 22 tl 
SATE FT TEMA | | 

ye eghs a glegadadrs: i ve Il 
ah Raenalfir dread 3 area | 

Far aerate aot Freer 1 241 
ast ata Tee | 

aqad 3 aet aetaa fdaag i 28 1 


Slokas 12-16 — One should examine from :— 

(a) the Sun — one’s valour, about father ; 

(b) the Moon — mind, intelligence, self-satisfaction 
and about mother ; 

(c) Mars — brothers (sisters), virtues, character, im- 
movable property ; 

(d) Mercury — capacity to distinguish between good 
and bad, speech, religion, acquisition of know- 
ledge ; 

(e) Jupiter — Chhatra (insignia of honour), vehicles, 
fame, varieties of apparels, physical strength, 
intelligence, children and wealth ; 

(f) Venus — semen virile, marriage, sexual happiness, 
vehicles and features of a female ; and 

(g) Saturn — longevity, means of livelihood, sorrow, 
distress, dreads, destruction of everything and 
death. 


TSCA TA A SUBS TNE AT | 
TERESA: BAIT Tes HA lI V9 1 
wy Bsealy FerHHSATeaT | 
MIMTT TAL TI aad A TAIT Ul Le Ml 


Slokas 17-18 — Those planets which are weak in strength 
at the time of birth are unable to give the effects enumera- 


sl. 12-23 ASHTAKAVARGA 51 


ted above. In the case of Saturn the effects are quite the 
reverse. 


After examining the Ashtakavarga strength one should 
decide the effects of each planet without which the Dasas 
cannot be fully judged. 


mae aaa Gd Af ard a ¢ wafata ves | 

TSS AMAA Katha agaranteaatt 23 U 
ad fe qencadl Arar fia alas aalews | 
TITTY gaat TAT AasaT ATA | Zo Ul 


Slokas 19-20 — To determine the effects of any bhava in a 
horoscope consider that bhava as the Lagna ; the twelve 
houses reckoned from that as, the Lagna, Dhana bhava, 
etc., should be examined and the effects declared thereafter. 


In the same manner the effects for the father, the 
mother, the brother, the maternal uncle, the son, the 
husband (wife) and the servant are to be considered by 
taking the signs occupied by their respective Karakas, viz., 
the Sun, the Moon and other planets in the horoscope, as 
the Lagna. 


MIAiaARASl ae AIA | THAATTY 

aaa Fea go gataraarae at ae aah U 
afg rare gaa qaredist faaivate = tq | 

wld AE TT AAA ca at canara : RR IU 
gel a afrat gaa saat PR ATT 

a Gara eu ceeee anaes TRE 


Slokas 21-23 — From the house occupied by the Sun (in a 
person’s horoscope) the appearance and stature of the 
father should be considered. The father’s prosperity and 
fame should be judged from the second house reckoned 
from the house occupied by the Sun. His brothers, 
character, etc., from the third house (from the Sun) and 
details about the father’s mother, father’s happiness should 
be divined from the 4th house. The father’s intelligence 


52 aTena: cHap. VI 


and peace of mind should be judged from the 5th house 
(from the Sun) ; his afflictions, injury, enemies and sick- 
ness from the 6th house ; his love and passion from the 
7th ; his sorrows, death and longevity should be considered 
from the 8th house (from the Sun). The father’s religious 
merit, auspiciousness and his father (i.e., native’s grand- 
father) should be looked into from the 9th house ; his 
avocation from the 10th house ; his gains and income from 
the 11th and his expenditure or extravagance from the 
12th house (from the Sun). All about the mother, brother, 
etc., should likewise be considered by taking the signs 
occupied by the respective Karakas, viz., the Moon, Mars, 
etc., as the Lagna and the remaining signs in order as the 
relevant bhavas. 


THAME AS TIANT ATTA | 
afer mr re maa aaa ae Tea aA RVI 


Sloka 24— All information about the mother, brother, 
father, son, etc., should be considered from the particular 
bhava and Karaka signified. The happiness and good 
effects indicated by a bhava are assured if that bhava, its 
lord and Karaka are all strong. 


= 4 
ad ae tary Wa ale eae Sanat | 
RY YMC AGE: Falaea SAME It 2 I 
Sloka 25 — Others say that the Sun in the 9th, the Moon 
in the 4th, Mars in the 3rd, Jupiter in the 5th, Venus in 
the 7th and Saturn in the 8th bhava, generally cause dis- 


tress to those bhavas (in the effects). 
Notes: Generally the Karaka of a bhava, when posited in that 


bhava, does not prosper the effects of the bhava concerned. 


Tiamat MARAgeATaeTT aaeT | 
qeaqanaiedia Wat Beacon + Iva 12a 


Sloka 26 — Bhavas represented by Mesha and other signs 
which contain 8 bindus (contributed by the 7 planets and 
the Lagna) in their individual Ashtakavargas become very 
strong and auspicious; bestow all prosperity. Bhavas 


sl. 24-29 ASHTAKAVARGA 53 


having 5, 6 or 7 bindus are also auspicious. Bhavas 
having 1, 2 or 3 bivdus are not auspicious. 
Notes: Herein the general effects of the bhavas having certain 


number of bindus are explained. 
TAT — 


Retaraga: Wa a ae: asa: Har | 
AQAA: VN IAT: HASTA: || 


fret we ale arrest Meraareraar afe sew: | 
cnh-genagenat Reena aaa TARA Ro UI 


Sloka 27 — Bhavas having 4 bindus produce mixed 
effects while those which do not contain a bindu cause 
death, censure and fear. 

The good and bad effects arising from the Sun and 
other planets when associated with 1, 2, etc., bindus in 
their individual Ashtakavargas are explained hereinafter. 
Notes: The previous verse and the first half of this verse show 
how to gauge the capacity of a bbara to give good or bad results. 
The latter part of the verse and succecding verses up to 31 show 
the effects of the planets associated with 1 to 8 bindus in the 
bbavas occupied by them at birth. 


Herat: — 
adnan seassat aareueuategaa 
wetaeMyahqaaga Iga eae BAT || 
mela TAs ATTA TAHT | 
Bar PANTING AHA ITAA | RS 


Sloka 28 — A planet associated with 1 bindu causes various 
kinds of diseases, sorrows, fears, roamings, etc. One, as- 
sociated with 2 bindus produces mental agony, censure and 
deprivation of food through a King or a robber. 


frag FapanstneTeTgeaa | 
TATA TATA ROI: APTS: TAT Ut 2 I 


Sloka 29 — When there are 3 bindus there will be many 
troubles due to a roaming life, lean body and mind 


54 arena: cHAP.IV 
becomes afflicted ; with 4 bindus comforts and discomforts, 
accession of wealth and expenditure of money and all 
other things equal, i.e., mixed effects will be experienced. 


TAMAAMOAM IATA TA FIA WTA: | 
qaqa aMereraiodmatrgaraareaeatea | 3° 1 


Sloka 30 — When the dbindus are 5, one will acquire fine 
apparels, fondle children, come into contact with virtuous 
people and acquire learning and wealth ; with 6 bindus 
one will have ever fresh and attractive appearance, excel- 
lent character, victory in war, wealth, fame, strength and 
conveyance. 


. aaa | 
farsem: aayonfremsirad saci 1 32 I 


Sloka 31—A planet associated with 7 bindus brings 
honour by virtue of possession of horses and other 
conveyances, an army and immense wealth ; with 8 bindus 
one acquires regal splendour with all its sevenfold adjuncts 
(namely lordship, minister, friends, treasures, domain, 
castles and armies). 


Rieger: Basal Gaara Fea | 
TAS JERSATA MAA: AWARS TAH 1 32 A 


Sloka 32 — A planet is always auspicious when he transits 
a bhava having 5 or more bizdzs in his own Ashtakavarga, 
if otherwise (i.e., if the planet transits a bhava having 3 
or less bindus) he is incapable of giving good results while 
transitting that bhava and he definitely becomes oppressive 
when transitting through a bhava having no bindu. 


artanréey :-— 
a a alia tar faegaer frasyAs« | 
aa gare 4 MA Ae ava tI 


ae MHRA STITT aa | 
fra: Sat fariarsahh: aaa aati 33 tl 


adam 2 are 


sl. 30-35 ASHTAKAVARGA 55 


Ta: TeaTTS afgeatri wag ¥ | 
ante: aad aieanehy: goeaeq i 28 UI 


Slokas 33-34— When any planct passes through a bhava, 
the effects are as follows according to the number of bindus 
in that bhava (in his Ashtakavarga) :— 


1. misery ; 5. great rejoicing ; 

2. loss of wealth ; 6. inflow of wealth ; 

3. anguish ; 7. all sorts of happiness ; 
4. status quo ; and 


8. perfection of everything. 

APTARTE :— 

aft duatarai ge gat ward | 

SMAMRAM Bet aIdlaqawar || 

af duafregai te gat waa | 

san staa aga FAT = II 
Reatrat — 

eat geal rates sated: | 

aan aaa atrariadisttieaats: sam: Key | 
Sara 

qaMsdeaad aad waged Fears « | 

annaeagamen: maRaneAAaa |! 


—— afaart anita arya 
WAT IeAANTAT AGT: * | 
qeafAgenaIaMaeaAN aan: 

Yar aondiafteaas Haha aa: 1-84 


Sloka 35 — Find the difference between the bindus and 
the rekhas. When the bindus are in excess by 2, the effect is 
inflow of wealth ; when 4, increase in confidence, acquisi- 
tion of new friends ; when 6, great valour, splendour, 
fame, etc., and when 8, one becomes a king or equal to a 
king with all its adjuncts. 

Note: When the rekbas are in excess, the results are reverse. 


— 


2. Gay 2, adda: 


56 ACHAT: CHAP. 1V 


WeTAT s— 
waa a: Be SU aE: euia: & WTA wala | 


ae aah: a aa: ass Heads Sq Il 


Bafinkatren: txawdg: | 
wirensal: af Taeasegzat Ae Ut 3S UI 


qeeraterar 4 4% affaritaen: | 
a aa Baar eaAezat ale th Bo 1 


Slokas 36-37 — All planets which are in their exaltation, 
own or friendly houses and are also possessed of strength 
by occupation of a Kendra, Trikona, etc., invariably 
produce evil results if they are associated with very few 
bindus (less than 4). 

Conversely, all planets occupying bad positions (i-e., 

Gth, 8th and 12th) or their debilitations or inimical signs 
in rasi or Navamsa, invariably produce good results if they 
are associated with more bindus (5 or more). 
Note: All the planets, howsoever well placed, or otherwise 
powerful, produce malefic results if they are associated with 3 or 
less bindus in their Bhinnashtakavargas. Conversely, all of them, 
howsoever adversely placed or otherwise weak, always produce 
benefic results if they are associated with 5 or more bindus. Thus 
the capacity to produce good or bad results depends more on the 
number of bivdus a planet is associated with, than on any other 
factor. This is a special classification of strength according to 
the Ashtakavarga system. 


Raageemeg sat af: Awe AAA: | 
PTC MCEICCRICRICIMCRIGUTCUIC TCM RECal]| 


Sloka 38 — When Saturn transits a bhava without a bindu 
in the Ashtakavarga of the Sun, etc., he generally causes 
acute diseases, fear from enemies and afflictions to the 
father and other relations according to their Karakatva. 
Notes: Saturn is the Karaka for oneself. 

The Sun is tha Karaka for the father. 

The moon,, ,, 9s >» 95 + Mother, 

Mars ie ae 33 » , brothers and sisters. 


sl. 36-41 ASHTAKAVARGA 57 


Mercury is the Karaka for the relations and maternal uncle. 


Jupiter se. iss % » 95 children. 
Venus > 9 ” » —»9,-—«(Wife. 


HALT Aa ATAIMAGAETUA Ve: | 
TRIAGE T TsaN a alkareh fata 1 3S 1 


Sloka 39— Having prepared the Ashtakavarga of any 
planet note the bhavas which contain greater number of 
bindus, That planet (benefic or malefic) in his transit 
through these bhavas, gives good effects according to the 
bhava positions which they (these bhavas) bear from the 
house occupied by that planet at birth ; in the bhavas with 
less number of bindus the transit of the said planet causes 
adverse results (to the native and to the Karaka represen- 
ted by the planet). 


Notes: Im the Standard Horoscope the Sun’s (representing the 
father) Ashtakavarga contains 6 bindus in the 7th bhava from 
him. When he passes through that /4ava beneficial results con- 
nected with the 7th bhava will be experienced by the father. 

Again, the 2nd bbava from the Sun contains 2 bindus. The 
father, therefore, will experience evil results pertaining to that 
bhava such as loss of money, family troubles, etc., during the 
transit of the Sun. 


faferenat Autaaemerakray 
feeqatacans sarmesaacet = : Bo II 


Sloka 40— After preparing the Ashtakavarga (of any 
planet) add up the indus in Mesha, Simha and Dhanus. 
This represents the East. Similarly the total of bindus in 
Vrishabha, Kanya and Makara represents the South ; 
Micthuna, Tula and Kumbha the West and Karka, Vrischika 
and Meena the North. That cardinal direction represented 
by the highest number of bindus amongst the four totals 
is very auspicious and that which has the least is inauspi- 
cious. 


fafaaserait dates aroma | 
TAMA TATUM Mi sz AAT 8? I 


58 aeHa: CHAP. IV 
Sloka 41 — After preparing the Ashtakavarga of any planet 
find out which b4ava contains more bindus ; the direction 
denoted by that bhava according to Sthirachakra ( feava% ) 
is auspicious and vice versa. 

Notes: Cardinal directions represented by the rasis :— 

The Rasichakra, i.e., Zodiac is designated as Chara (movable) 
and Sthira (fixed). 

I In the movable Zodiac the rising sign always represents 
the East, the 7th house the West, the 10th house the South and 
the 4th house the North. _ 

If In the fixed Zodiac there are the following two methods 
of reckoning directions :— 

(1) The system applied by Varahamihira in Brihat-jataka 
(Ch. I, Sloka 11), viz., Mesha trine the East ; Vrishabha trine the 
South ; Mithuna trine the West and Karka trine the North. 
These directions are used when things of a general nature are 
considered. 


{2) The system given in Prasnamarga :— 


wat Assnaat fagay raz 

anat waziial a Assi RA saa I 
qTeat F Taras TAHA saleale: | 

ahat qaaet enatteneat er Haz II 
ytrantas sai feaegafa: era | 

The signs Mesha and Vrishabha represent the East, Mithuna 
the South-East, Karka and Simha the South, Kanya the South- 
West, Tula and Vrischika the West, Dhanus the North-West, 
Makara and Kumbha the North and Meena the North-East. 
This is the same as the Chakra represented by the South Indian 
type of putting the horoscope (See page 11). 

This system of reckoning directions is generally used for 
things of a permanent nature such as one’s permanent property, 
lands, etc., for consideration of directions in one’s own house, 
compound, locality (such as village or towm) or completion of any 
undertaking of a long standing or permanent nature (e.g., Chap. 
XIII Verses 2 and 3). 


areas TEnreat eraTsATT | 
A ASA TASTMTTAATIAAS? 1 BR 


sl, 42 ASHTAKAVARGA 59 
Sloka 42— Find out the cardinal directions by these two 
methods ; their use should be made according to the nature 
of the matters under consideration. The direction repre- 
sented by the greater number of bindus is auspicious and 
one with less bindus is inauspicious. 


CHAPTER V 
PRASTARASHTAKAVARGA AND 
SARVACHANCHACHAKRA. 


sneer Th TATE AAT T_T TET: | 
RAs WTA TIE eK TA 


AIA AaaTHaA ea TATA: | 
MPMSISTIHUTAaa: HAN AaeTHOAT: SW RU 


Slokas 1-2 — Draw a diagram with nine horizontal parallel 
lines from the East to the West at equal intervals. Similar- 
ly draw thirteen vertical parallel lines from the North to 
the South. This gives 96 squares in eight rows exhibiting 
the Prastara form of Bhinnashtakavarga. 


The Lagna, the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn i their order are the lords of the 8 
Kakshyas of a bhava from the South to the North. These 
planets produce good or bad results when transiting 
Kakshyas having bindus or without bindus. 


Notes: The Kakshya lords are mentioned in the order of their 
orbits round the Zodiac. Cf. Jataka-parijata, Chap. II verse 71, 
Ist line :-— 


WAaaMAaTA: BUT BIA AAaTaeT: | 


Draw the Prastarashtakavarga ( TITER ) table and 
set therein the bindus for the Sun’s Ashtakavarga in the Standard 
Horoscope. Prastarashtakavarga is a spread-over or a detailed 
Bhinnashtakavarga. 


The auspicious places from the Sun are marked with bindss 
in the Sun’s row beginning with the bhava occupied by him, i.e., 
from Kanya. The auspicious places from Saturn are marked with 
bindus against Saturn’s row beginning from Makara which he 
occupies. In this manner the remaining auspicious places are 
marked with bindus in their respective rows. 


sl. 1-2 ASHTAKAVARGA 61 


Roatan :— 
UMEITIA TS UafEda J Te: Fea | 
aarti ed gee weeF II 
MACaAAS — 
THT: Wye Ay- 
ala Aaa: Mea a HALT II 
aRraat -— 
feitametad fitter ae aA aged 
Paren waa: qaraea: efter az | 
aera: Ayes Henge als sea ACT 
Tea: MrT BITeaaasE eases Hegvan: 
FTTH — 
waked 7g faa sata: tenaftatast 
Fe: Galea: Faeries afteaty 
ARANETA TT ae FATE te- 
alteraaaatsaeg Tefhia seresatz Il 
The Sun’s Prastarashtakavarga 


Bhavas |@ZiAZi |; | a 
represent- i 


e 


62 SORA: CHAP. V 


UATHR ARITA TAT ASMA | 
QHAMGIZ BAT Wadia ATT II 


ahyereeanrat : 

aa tar feaarraaiRarernay | 

pyaaa sea ap reawes Fa: | 

aaaqeni a wrlagaea 3 | 

ages Tass | 

MARIA TARKATCHTS | 

smfeeaenant @ sar SARA FT || 

aaanegar ray a ateney | 

qhamfey 8g oMArag aa FE II 

aonaaiaa Aaverws FE | 

at aka Wat a VATAERTS || 

aaains Sa aecenals | 

a aaa veltafaaag 

agaea I aaa FS 4 Aa aT | 

RAR TARY TPES F Il 

Tears seat Fs TAT TT_AT: | 

Peed J gatas feraeareareaa: | 

weer F WS F Taarlsaezaraad: | 

VANITE ATA IISA TAI |! 

| Garters seat Barat Tz ea | 

mead Agta Fated Ges Te: | 
Notes: Parasarahora, Shambhu-horaprakasha and Manasagari 
give a different order for Kakshya lords. The order followed by 
them is as follows :—The Sun, Saturn, Jupiter, Venus, Mars, 
Mercury, the Moon and the Lagna. 


RE: ATTA FACT AAA ATTA | 
F CUINC FGA C LeU Aw ESOP GCA TEU 


Sloka 3 — Prepare the Ashtakavargas of all the planets 
from their positions at the time of birth as per rules laid 
down. When planets in their transits are in a rasi (or 
when that rasi is rising), month (period of the Sun's 
transit), bhava, etc., which contain the greatest number of 


sl, 3-4 ASHTAKAVARGA 63 
bindus (in their individual Ashtakavargas) will prove 
auspicious. 


Rat faa acnoltigarafataoiars aaseait | 
MIST FT HST RAHAT Fat HATTA 8 Hl 


Sloka 4— Others say that in order to ascertain the time of 
fruition of the effects of a bhava, in case it contains bindus, 
divide that bhava into 8 Kakshyas and find out which of 
them contain bindus. During the periods, the planet in 
question transits those Kakshyas (3°-45’ each roughly) the 
effects take place. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope there are 4 bindus in the 
Lagna (Mithuna) which is the 10th house from the Sun in his 
Ashtakavarga. It will be seen that these have been contributed 
by the Sun, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter while the remaining 3 
planets and the Lagna have each contributed a rekha. Therefore 
the bindus are placed in their respective Kakshyas in the Lagna 
house. 

When the Sun transits the Lagna bhava which is from 
1*-18°-39’ to 29-18-39’, he will give benefic results only during 
the four periods of the Kakshya divisions of the bhava, viz :— 

Ist 18-22°-38’ to 15-26°-38’ (Jupiter’s Kakshya) 

2nd _ 1*-26°-38’ to 2*-0°-37’ (Mars’ Kakshya) 

3rd 2*-0°-37’ to 2%-4°-37’ (The Sun’s Kakshya) 

and lastly 2°-8°-8’ to 2*-11°-38’ (Mercury’s Kakshya). 

The remaining four Kakshyas will produce adverse results. The 
Sun will give good or bad results in all the remaining bhavas 
during his transit through Kakshyas having bivdus or rekbas. 
Similarly the good and bad effects due to the transits of the 
remaining planets should be judged from their respective Prasta- 
rashtakavargas. 

Kakshya divisions of a bhava :-— 

It is convenient to divide a bhava in the following way. 
Divide into 4 equal parts the difference in degrees from Arambha- 
sandhi(atya(q—beginning) to Bhavamadhya(arqaey—the middle 
part of that bhava) and similarly make 4 equal parts from Bhava- 
madhya to Bhavasandhi (i.e., end of the house). The reason is 
that by Bhavamadhya, it is meant the exact middle of the bhava 
in the circle passing through that latitude, to which the ecliptic 


64 aTeena: cHAP. V 


circle is collated. It is said that the Dashamabhavamadhya 
( aqmaraarq—cusp of the 10th house) is the highest point. 
Naturally, in a circular Zodiac points on either side of the cusp 
will be at a lower level. 


SARVACHANCHACHAKRA 
(Refer the attached Chart) :-— 
The Sarvachanchachakra is a chart incorporating in it 


practically all the important details of the Ashtakavarga 
and the horoscope. 


The biggest circle represents the map of the Zodiac, 
It is divided into 12 bhavas according to the method 
followed in India (Method of Porphyry-Jatakapaddhati of 
Shripati). The Sandhis of the 12 bhavas are given in 
signs, degrees and minutes at their proper places. Every 
bhava has a cusp. The portion from Bhavasandhi of a 
particular bhava to the cusp of that house is divided into 
four equal parts. Similarly, the portion between the cusp 
and the end of the bhava is also divided into four equal 
parts. Thus a bhava is divided into eight parts known as 
Kakshyas. The beginning of the Kakshya is shown 
against ic in signs, degrees and minutes. In the strip 
below the first (the biggest) circle the names of Kakshya 
lords are given in all the bhavas against the Kakshyas. In 
the Lagna bhava the English equivalents of the Kakshya 
lords are marked. 


The positions of the planets are also indicated at their 
proper longitudes by arrows. This enables one to find out 
immediately the positions, in degrees and minutes, the 
Kakshyas, the bhavas and the Zodiacal rasis of all the 
planets at birth. 

Below the second circle is the Sun’s Ashtakavarga. 
The Sun’s Prastarashtakavarga is given in a circular form 
as against the tabular one (refer page No. 61). The 
bindus in the various bhavas are the sama as shown in the 
tabular form. From the chart one can have a visual idea 
of the transit of the Sun and the other planets through the 
various bhavas and their Kakshyas by which results can be 
judged on a collective basis. 


= iret [Ho] 


& 
Rpt 
nee BEES 
OCS 


Bi fer 


Metetyg? 
nadar 


2 
R 


a, 


a Ze 
Pe sae 
See 


ware le eee 
Eee sy 
G SOROS 


<$ 


RA, 


rN 9 
on Sees Sex; Lh 
eS 

we lex > L Je} [ofal lol 
ee EN 


7 : 
ata fa eee 


CPS LI 
%% s & 
“bey, FP EE 


OF F 5 


ig 
u 


aene® Ee F = xe = 

ave himenb ily 
ROO CMG ces 

\Scleicl | Stafals SS 


a + ob 5 * od 
3 R45 
ake 


ee 


[slay CFPm 
SST SAE ot 
SEES oN Le ee 
ECOSOC LBS GLE EXO Ect 
SESE LL PROROOR ES, KE 
Mg ENS 


aS 
oe 

520, 
10 


z 
Mel) 


CONT} 


ie 
Boe 
Bho: 


SS 
SEX 


BE 
me 
es 
Oe 
Oh 
oe 
Lane 


48) 


ASHTAKAVARGA 65) 


Below the third circle is the Moon’s Prastarashtakavarga. 


ss » fourth , ,, Mars’ ; is 
ss » fifth ae * Sy Mercury’s ‘3 
ma » sixth ,,, Jupiter’s = 
Be » seventh ,, ,, Venus’ oe 
= » eighth ,,, Saturn’s 6 


The portion below the ninth circle represents the: 
Bhinnashtakavarga figures in each bhava of the Sun, the. 
Moon, etc., in order and the bhava number is marked in: 
Roman numerals. The portion below the tenth circle 
represents the Samudayashtakavarga figures of the bindus: 
in each bhava. The portion below the eleventh circle’ 
shows the Chalita or Bhava-kundali of the Standard 
Horoscope with planets therein. The portion below the 
twelfth circle, i.e., the smallest circle in the chart represents 
the Samudayashtakavarga figures of the rekbas (malefic 
points) which is derived by deducting the Samudayashta- 
kavarga figures of the bindus from 56 (total Kakshyas in 
a bhava). 

This chart is important in the sense that it incorporates 
practically all the details of the Ashtakavarga such as 
Prastara, Bhinna, Samudaya, Kakshyas, etc., in one chart 
and is named as Sarvachanchachakra ( wdara% ).For pre- 
dicting results, the (Gochara) transits of all the planets 
could be easily watched. Moreover it is very convenient 
to find out the bhava positions of all the planets in transit 
from their original positions, from the Lagna or from one 
another from this chart. In short it is the best form of 
presenting the horoscope fitted to the Zodiac in a circular 
form. 

This Chakra can be prepared from the Sayana posi- 
tions also and the'effects of the transits of the planets can 
be studied therefrom. For other purposes like Trikona 
and Ekadhipatya reductions, ett, the Nirayana positions 
should be considered. 

Average time taken by planets to transit a Kakshya of 
3°-45’, 
The Sun — 33%days; Mars — 5 days ; 
The Moon — 634 hrs; Mercury — 214 days; 

on Aiba 


66. aeRat: CHAP. V 


Jupiter — 11/4, months ; Saturn — 33/, months ; 
Venus — 3 days ; Rahu (Ketu) — 214 months. 


ARS: GATT: LMA TH TTTOATTAT | 
orafetrareara Tatt: aaTRS aftereed Wet 


Sloka 5 — When a planet passes through a Kakshya which 
has a bindu in his Ashtakavarga ( in any bhava) he 
produces beneficial effects; if he is passing through a 
Kakshya void of a bindu, there is no benefit. But, if at 
the time of passing through a Kakshya having a bindu, 
the planet is in his debilitation, inimical house or in 
combust, he causes great sorrow. 


ATTA -— 
Ware J GEMS ASI TITAN: * | 
wre a fasdtag Fegend a gaa: |I 


FREE TR HAY THAT | 
wait Saat: eee ici 


gardtat sat aia: 4a Feqeaaaa: | 

AS TASVET WI GI TIAA II 9 UI 

= SEER eared BUTT ate | 

FaveTea: It ¢ U 

aati teeweror BARAT | 

af fata eae aay aT Aa NS 

TIRE SIP VTA: FT | 

GAUSAE BATT AH TAT HATCHTA Mt Lo UI 
Slokas 6-10—The capacity of planets to give good or bad 
effects are according to their natural (Naisargika) strength, 
the order of which is the Sun, the Moon, Jupiter, Venus, 
Mars, Mercury and Saturn. When any four planets in 
transit occupy Kakshyas having bindus there is acquisition 
of wealth ; with any 5 planets honour, good health and 
gain of apparels ; with any 6 planets coronation and with 


7 planets occupying Kakshyas having bindus acquisition 
of kingdom. 


sl. 5-11 ASHTAKAVARGA 67 


Similarly, when any four planets in transit occupy 
Kakshyas having no bindus there is loss of wealth ; with 
any 5 planets sickness ; with any 6 planets all sorts of 
misfortunes and with 7-planets possible death. Death is 
a certainty if in the above case, one of the planets occupies 
a bhava which in his Ashtakavarga contains no bindu at all. 
Any other planet in that bhava may not cause death, but 
brings some calamity equivalent to death. 


When more than 3 planets are in Kakshyas having 
bindus they prove auspicious and give good results accor- 
ding to the nature of the bhavas and the rasis occupied by 
them. 


Notes: The maximum effect, out of the 35 types of 4 planets in 
Kakshyas having bindus, will be that of the Sun, the Moon, 
Jupiter and Venus and next in order that of the Sun, the Moon, 
Jupiter and Mars, etc., etc. 


TAN UNAS Tq AHS: ATA LVR 

aaa Aaaaraed al AT HEA TAT | 
RTA AAAATAd HM TAT BAT 

maa; aaaecTd fact Aadisa a cnen eeu 


Sloka 11—Planets passing through houses having no bindus 
are inauspicious for the entire period of the transit, and 
when passing through houses having 8 bémdus the entire 
period of transit produces good results. When there are 
7 bindus and 1 rekha, find out which planet has contributed 
the rekha. When that planet (whose Ashtakavarga is 
under consideration) transits this Kakshya he produces 
evil effects. 


Similarly, if there is only 1 bindu and 7 rekhas in a 
bhava, the Kakshya represented by the planet giving the 
bindu alone is productive of good results when transit of 
that planet (whose Ashtakavarga is considered) takes 
place. This is the rule to be followed for all the other 
bhavas. Another method of consideration given in the 
Vivarana cOmmentary is mentioned in the succording 
verses. 


68 aaa CHAP. V 


aarernitsaqaeatadst TH 
dat ae Ty aRaAal arasnd TAT | 
Tarqsaiad Garant matey Taras 
Tod TRITATTTSTATg RT AVS N22 A 


Sloka 12 —In the Sun’s Ashtakavarga, his transit through 2 
Kakshya (in any bhava) where there is a bindu will 
produce good effects due to that as follows :— 


1. corresponding to the Karakatva (representer) of 
the things mentioned for the Sun ; 

2. corresponding to the Moola (material) type of 
things in reckoning Dhatu (4g), Moola (qe) 
and Jiva (sila); 

3. according to the bhava position from the planet (in 
the natal chart) which has donated tha bindu ; and 

4. according to the bhava position, from the house oc- 

cupied by. the Sun at birth or according to the bhava 
occupied (from the Lagna) by the Sun at birth. 


wataRi :—( from Krishneeya ) 
dmimdreads feat grea 
td staged FarParats ararfs 1 
Notes: One should consider things of Dhatu nature, i.e., ele- 
mental and primary things such as minerals, metals and other 
inanimate wealth through the Moon, Mars, Saturn and Rahu. 
The Sun and Venus represent Moola nature of things such 
as roots, grains, seeds, trees, etc. 
Jupiter and Mercury represent living beings (Jiva) namely; 
humar beings, animals, birds, insects, etc. 


Rasis 
Dhaiu Moola Jiva 
Mesha Vrishabha Mithuna 
Kataka Simha Kanya 
Tula Vrischika Dhanus 


Makara Kumbha Meena 


sl. 12-14 ASHTAKAVARGA 69 


Nakshatras 
Dhatu , Moola Jive 
Aswini Bharani Krittika 
Rohini Mrigasiras Ardra 
Punarvasu, Pushya Aslesha, 
£tC., ete., etc, 


TA: TTA Raat aaa: 
arg 4 ——— sea 
sisi i AM SATATEA 


eieatraacticreReemcrstosrf a I 22 II 


Sloka 13 — When the Sun transits a Kakshya having no 
bindu (in his Ashtakavarga) all sorts of unfavourable 
things will happen according to (1) the Karakatva of 
things mentioned for the Sun ; (2) Moola type of things ; 
(3) the bhava position from the planet which has not 
donated a bindu in his Kakshya; and (4) the bhava in 
which the Sun stands from the Lagna. 

Similarly, the good and bad effects due to the transits 
of the Moon and other planets should be considered from 
their respective Prastarashtakavargas. 


TRAN TIT AAS TEATT RATT 
RTM ad xara | 
AL TTA TTT Te: 
TH aaTaMASSATSSa SE TY Ul Lv UV 


‘Sloka 14— When considering the Gochara effect of a pla- 
net, if the planet and the lord of the Kakshya which he is 
transitting are both powerful, then the good effects accord- 
ing to the nature of the planet and the Kakshya lord will 
occur in abundance. If the planet is in his exaltation, in 
own house, friendly house or in an Upachaya (3734 ) 
house, the effects will be complete. If the planet concern- 
‘ed is weak and is in debilitation, in inimical house or in 
‘an Anupachaya (2avqq) house, the effects will be 
very little. (This is explained in detail in the next verse 
‘by an example). 


Sloka 15 —The Sun’s representative ings are of the nature 
appealing to the eye and shape, and for Saturn that which 
appeals to the touch (soft or rough). When the Sun 
transits a Kakshya of Saturn in any bhava (having a 
bindu) and is auspicious, and if the donor (Saturn) and 
the Sun are both strong silk clothes which are beautiful 
in appearance and soft to the touch will be obtained. If 
both are weak clothes ugly and coarse to the touch like 
black woollen rugs, etc., will be obtained. 

In this manner all things must be taken into considera- 
tion in each planet’s Ashtakavarga (for transit results). 


GHeaaACaed: Tala Taaeee | 
HS TAR TAR A AAT I 2S I 


Sloka 16 — Having explained the combined effects of a 
planet and the lord of the Kakshya through which he 
transits by an example the separate individual effects of 
each planet are enumerated (in the following seven 
chapters). 


CHAPTER VI 


ASHTAKAVARGA OF THE SUN 


mag Fegg fafeaaca Paka 


miracary Ie Aaa: | 


aaa eaRT 
qaqa: TAT: ay aaeh Hs 
—ereatirata 


fea Teed Sse TAY aA: 11 2 UI 


Sloka 1—When the Sun in his Ashtakavarga transits 
bhavas containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as 


follows :— 


8 bindus great honours and wealth through Royal or 


e333 

6 od 

5 ”° 

4 od 

3 3 

2 3 

1 bindu 
0 


official favours ; 

wonderful lustre and augmentation of hap- 
piness ; 

valour and prosperity ; 

acquisition of wealth ; 

mixed effects (good and bad) ; 

fatigue by travel ; 

sinful deeds ; 

fear of affliction ; 

death (or its equivalent troubles). 


Additional results given by other authors for the 


above :— 


_ 8 bindus kingly glory with all its adjuncts, such as 


7 


6 


» 


wealth, good advisers, etc. ; 

success through women, valour and respect 
from others ; 

acquisition of wealth, fame, fine vehicles and 
success in undertakings ; 

association with virtuous people and augmen- 
tation of wealth and learning ; 

acquisition of wealth and immediate expen- 
diture, mixed results due to happiness and 
misery ; 


’ wandering life, various kinds of bodily trou- 


bles and uneasiness of mind ; 


72 STEHT CRAP. VI 


2  ,, disappointments, royal displeasure, loss 
through theft, calumny and difficulties to get 
food, etc ; 

1. bindu sickness, worries and miseries. 

The Sun’s Ashtakavarga 


SINE 


ZN SBN 


Ada VATA A AIM | TTA « | 
aS ol i 


Sloka 2— When the Sun transits a Kakshya having a 
bindu in his Ashtakavarga the defeat of one’s enemies, at- 
tainment of one’s ambitions unexpectedly (or by own 
effort), according to the nature of the bhava, etc., will take 
place. 


FET PERV ATSTAABITA: « | 
| MATTEO I 3 UI 
Sloka 3 — While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu he 
(the Sun)” will be the cause of untold miseries, great 
mental affliction and misfortune; sickness and sorrow ; 


and one should expect displeasure from King (Govern- 
ment) without any cause during such transit. 


ATASTERATH TERS AY Paethes 
TST DT TATA TET TEA | 
at arma Gora + Ryrgara Brat: 
TeTd ads Gaahas ari Rea: tv 


Sloka 4— When the Sun transits a bhava containing many 
- bindus in his Ashtakavarga, the solar month represented 
by that bhava is auspicious for marriages, etc. The same 


sl. 2-5 ASHTAKAVARGA 73 


month brings him immediate good results for (a) any new 
work started, (b) journey to a distant place and (c) per- 
formance of meritorious and charitable deeds. Persons 
desirous of having good results should not undertake the 
above deeds when the Sun transits any bhava containing 
less bindus. (The bhavas containing 4 bindus give mixed 
results). 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Simha and Meena bhavas 
contain 6 biudus each. The transits of the Sun through these 
two bbavas will be auspicious for meritorious deeds. Tula, 
Dhanus and Makara bhavas contain 2 bindus each. The solar 
months represented by these 3 bhavas should be avoided for 
undertaking the good deeds. 


QUaIe:— 
aalsait aeqeg are dacat sie It 
faarsqaerfe araskaq aster | 
weal wagers wwe Fala a Il 
waane Ge sear ard of BAAR Il 


seanrarat fh aaara: ea: Par yfaatter yea | 
Rrardirarary can fare ae AE 


Sloka 5 — Add up the bindus in the bhavas representing 
the East (Mesha, Simha and Dhanus). Similarly add up the 
bindus for the South, the West and the North. One 
should worship Shiva or serve the King in the direction 
which contains the maximum number of bindus out of the 
four totals. The same direction should be utilised to have 
Shiva Darsana, to see Arati (auspicious lamp) or audi- 
ence with sovereign. Place of worship. of deities should 
be arranged in that direction in one’s house. 


Notes: The cardinal directions according to Sthirachakra in the 
Standard Horoscope :— 


(1) Method of Brihat-jataka— The sum of hindus in Mesha 
triad is 13; in Vrishabha triad 11; in Mithuna triad 10 and in 
-Karka triad 14. The Karka triad contains the maximum number 
of bindus which represents the North. 


74 ERT: CHAP. VI 


(2) Method of Prasnamarga—Simha and Meena contain 
6 bindus each which represent the South and the North-East 
respectively, 


marae TAT 
meant Te J TTR THIS AS | 
aTaise teres ag at reat aly ate 
AMAT THA TS FAs TMTANTSTY: U1 § UI 
Sloka 6 — Find out separately for each group the sum to- 
tal of the bindus in the four bhavas, viz., (1) the house oc- 
cupied by the Sun and the consecutive three bhavas there- 
after ; (2) the fifth house from him and the three follow- 
ing it and (3) the ninth house from him and the remaining 
three houses. If the number of bindus in the first group 
is the maximum, all auspicious deeds should be undertaken 
in the first part of the day for good results ; if the second 
group contains the maximum, the middle part of the day 
should be chosen for success ; if the third group has the 
maximum, the last part of the day will be good. The 
portion of the day corresponding to the group contain- 
ing the lowest number of bimdus should be avoided for all 
auspicious work. 


Notes: By day is meant the period from sunrise to sunset. 
In the Standard Horoscope :— 
(a) First part §+2+4+2=13 ) 
(b) Second part 2+4+6+5=17 L = 48 
(c) Third part 4+4+4+6=18 


The third part of the day contains the maximum number of 
bindus, hence the period between the afternoon and the sunset 
is the most propitious time for success in any undertaking. 


unt 19 Paar Reetart sa: Haraaregaa 3 VA | 
amztgakaaan Raa aasin fare safargl 9 0 


Sloka 7 — When the Sun is in the Lagna which is his inimi- 
cal or debilitation house and is associated with 3 or 2 
bindus, the person born will be sickly ; while the Sun 
associated with 5 or more bindus in the Lagna which is his 


sl. 6-114 ASHTAKAVARGA 75 


exaltation or own house, the person born becomes a King 
endowed with long life, 


Saharan Raa werent | 

WMASMISAWSTT AAT AW AAR AT? Il ¢ I 
Sloka 8— When the Sun, associated with 6, 5, 7 or 8 
bindus, occupies a Kendra or Trikona position, the native 
or his father will meet with death in 22nd, 35th, 30th or 
36th year respectively of the native. 
Notes: Devakeralam goes a little further and says that in the 
same circumstances the person or his father will meet with an 
accidental or immediate death, i.e., by fire or by a fall from a 
mountain or in a cemetery, etc. 


nara tahaa aati | 
Wal ssa: Aral Tae USTMTETN: (1 SU 


Sloka 9 — When the Sun, in conjunction with the Moon, 
Saturn and Mercury, is in a Kendra at birth and that bhava 
has 2 nett bindus, i.e., after both the reductions, persons 
learned in Astrology say that, the father of the native will 
have immense administrative power and fame ten years 
after the native’s birth. 


THY TAT Tal sz aT waa 
REIT fg AIA AW I Lo Ul 


Sloka 10—A person born having Rahu, Saturn or Mars. 
in the 4th house from the Sun, will be the cause of his 
father’s early death provided that house (4th house from 
the Sun) is not aspected either by Jupiter or Venus. 


BARTER Te TATA aly | 

Reareay cet are Afra aeetae 1 22 II 

MIFOMSA ARIAT: | 
Slokas 11-114 — When Saturn transits the 9th house from 
the Lagna or the Moon, the demise of one’s parents may be 
predicted, if he (Saturn) is aspected by or associated with 
a malefic planet and also the Dasa and Antardasa at that 
time indicate the same. . = 


6 aTeRaT: cnap. VI 


sareaaranacarat + pera 2 
gaaracaa F Ted TAT I 83 Il 
Slokas 12-13-— The demise of the father may occur also 
during the Dasa of the planet who is the lord of the rasé 
occupied by the lord of the 4th house from the Lagna, or 
it may happen probably during the Dasa of the lord of the 
4th house. 
Devakeralam and other works :— 

1. When the Sun is in a Kendra and even when that 
is a friendly house, associated with 3, 4 or 5 bindus, the 
father of the native will meet with death or suffer afflic- 
tions in the 17th year of the native. 

2. When the Sun is in the 5th or 9th bhava, the 
father of the person will be afflicted by misfortune at the 
age (of the person) represented by the number of bindus 
in that house in the Samudayashtakavarga. 

3. If the Sun is in the 2nd or 5th house associated 
with 3 bivdus and Rahu is in the 9th, the person will be 
-bereft of his father at his 5th year of age. 

4. Evil effects to the person, his father, mother or 
‘brother have to be predicted when Saturn, the Sun, the 
Moon or Mars is respectively in the 5th house from the 
Lagna, at the time of birth. 

5. The person will surely lose his father in child- 
hood when the Sun is in the 5th house with 1 or 2 bindus 
and the birth of the child is in (1) 1st quarter of Moola ; 
(2) 2nd or 3rd quarter of Revati or Aswini and (3) the 
4th quarter of Aslesha or Jyeshta. 

6. If the Sun is in the 3rd house with 3 or 4 bindus 
and a malefic planet is in the 9th house, the father of the 
native will depart from this world within 20 years of the 
native’s age. 

7. When the Sun is in the 6th house with 4 bindus 
and is aspected by or associated with Jupiter, the person 
loses his father within 25 years of his age. 

8. When Jupiter is in a Kendra from the Sun, and 
(1) is at the same time in a Kendra from the Lagna, or (2) 
‘is in his own house, or in the middle of the bhava, and is 


sl. 12-14: ASHTAKAVARGA 77. 


associated with 3 to 7 bindus (in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga), 
the person born will be the owner of vast estates ; if a 
Brahmin, he will be conducting sacrifices or be a minister. 

9. When the Sun is in the 8th house with 3 to 7 
bindus the effects are very little. 

10. After the two reductions, if the Sun has 3 bindus 
and is posited in the 3rd, 6th or 11th bhava, that bhava 
prospers well according to the strength of the bhava and 
the Sun (Shadvarga Bala) ; if the bimdus are 1 or 2 only, 
the effect is much diminished whichever the bhava may be. 

11. The number of brothers and sisters of the father 
can be ascertained from the number of bindus in the 9th 
house from the Sun (in a native’s horoscope). Bindus 
donated by male planets indicate brothers and the rest 
sisters. 


Shodhyapinda and other calculations. 


Ga MIA Ta: cafes 2a 

and ag Reraad da carla | 
TST a sat Orang arated ara 

TEN T GE aratgshhad ara: epiegs: 1 22 


Sloka 14— Multiply the Shuddhapinda of the Sun by the 
number of binvdus in the 9th house from the Sun before 
both the reductions and divide the product by 27. The 
remainder reckoned frons Aswini, gives the asterism which 
brings about the death of the father when Saturn passes 
through it, or it may happen when Saturn passes through 
the asterism as reckoned from his radical asterism (the 
asterism of Saturn at birth). 

Notes: Some astrologers are of opinion that counting ot 
an asterism should be done from Aswini for a person born in 
the bright half, and from Dhanishta for one born in the dark 
half of the Moon. In the Standard Horoscope the Sun’s Shud- 
dhapinda is 204 and the number of bindus in the 9th house from 
the Sun (before the reductions) is 4. The product is 204 X 4 = 
816. Dividing by 27, the remainder is 6. 

1, Counting from Aswini the 6th asterism is Ardra. 

2. 35 »  Saturn’s asterism (Sravana) the 6th is Revati. 


78 STERA: cuap. VI 


Therefore, when Saturn transits any one of ‘the above two 
asterisms the death of the father may take place. 

When there is no bindu in the 9th house from the Sun, take 
the Shuddhapinda figure itself as the product. In case of zero 
remainder take 27 as the remainder. These two rules hold good 
in all cases of multiplications and remainders for the Ashtaka- 
varga calculations. 


QUa-- 
seen a falacarraty | 
séRuaea aaa TW: qué eqaz Il 
matrasdwassanTssey | 
safaargd AF aaa aa Tas: II 
aad ae aq aq alae aaa 
afta are fTaHat Vadis a daa: | 
aaamaa at fia fgaatsit ar | 
Ao wea THAtaTEAM Sez BEAT II 


Rerie ne a aad HE Te TAT 
—easnaaraaa 


oe ee 
CATA AUT TATHAGATA TTHTT 4 


Sloka 15 — Add up the bindus in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga 
that remain after the two reductions (aera), but 
before the multiplications. Multiply this total by the 
number of bindus that remain after the reductions in the 
9th house from the Sun and divide the product by 27. If 
there are no bindus in that house, then no multiplication 
is necessary ; take the sum of bindus as it is, for division. 
The remainder counted from Aswini shows the asterism 
which when transitted by Saturn may bring about the death 
of the father. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the sum of the bindus after 
the two reductions (Shodhyavashista) is 16 and there are 2 
bindus in the 9th house from the Sun (after the reductions). 
The product is 32. Dividing by 27, the remainder is 5. 
Counting from Aswini the 5th asterism is Mtigasiras and Saturn’s 


sl. 15-17 ASHTAKAVARGA vA) 


transit through it may bring about the death of the father of the 
mative. 


ag aeain fazen atta: | 
Seat Ata aeaisa sarees Raa 2S Al 


Sloka 16 — So far, the method of finding out the asterism 
in relation to the Sun’s Ashtakavarga for deciding the time 
which may bring about the death of the father of the native 
during Saturn’s transit of that asterism, has been explained. 
It is, however, necessary to find out the simultaneous 
positions of the Sun and Jupiter. 

Notes: In the previous verses it has been explained how the 
transit of Saturn through a particular asterism may bring about 
the death of the native’s father. If this was the only condition 
it will be found that in almost all cases a native will lose his 
father before the age of 30. This is not, however, true as one 
comes across several cases where the father of a native lives 
much longer. In fact the last line of the above verse itself sug- 
gests that there are other conditions which have to be satisfied to 
determine the time of the death of the father. These are the 
simultaneous transits of the Sun and Jupiter (See the follow- 
ing stanza). If these additional conditions are not satisfied and 
Saturn alone is transitting that asterism, it should be inferred 
that the father or a similar elderly paternal relative of the native 
will suffer from severe sickness or some quarrels with the father 
or the like will take place. 

The above principle should invariably be borne in mind in 
all cases while predicting the demise of the other relatives of the 
native from the Ashtakavargas of the planets concerned: according 
co their Karakatva. ; 

oT ATERT sfrsraferni- 
at TITY Fret AMIS + aT: | 
Pre aanrar gaat TeRAASATTAa 
earerreeeg ane ramlgaTeATIT THR Il Ro UI 


Sloka 17 — Multiply the Shuddhapinda of the Sun by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 7th house 
from the position of Jupiter in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga, and 


80 BAVHRAT: cuaP. VI 


divide the product by 27. The remainder reckoned from 
Aswini is the asterism which when transitted by Jupiter 
brings about the death of the father. Similarly, multiply 
the Shuddhapinda of the Sun by the number of bindus in 
the 7th house from the Sun (before the reductions), and 
divide the product by 27. Remainder is the asterism from 
Aswini through which the Sun passes at sake time of the 
father’s death. 


Notes; Inthe Standard Horoscope the 7th house from Jupiter has: 
5 bindus in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga. The product is 204 X 5 = 
1020. Dividing by 27, the remainder is 21 which when counted 
from Aswini gives Uttarashadha for Jupiter’s transit. 


The 7th house from the Sum has 6 bindus. The product is 
1224 which when divided by 27 gives 9 as the remainder. Coun- 
ting from Aswini, Aslesha is the asterism. So at the time when 
Saturn passes through the asterism calculated previously, Jupiter 
should transit Uttarashadha and the Sun Aslesha to bring about 
the death of the father. 


ees eral ATA Te | 
TIAA TN TATA SU 


Sloka 18 — The month when one’s own death may happen 
can be found out from the Sun’s Ashtakavarga. Similarly, 
the positions of Saturn, Jupiter and the Sun calculated 
from the Moon's Ashtakavarga will determine the time of 
the death of the native’s mother. 


dente: aeathe wReraanedeter Grad | 
Re day Aral wala 4 Rash ATA: Ul 28 I 


Sloka 19 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of the Sun by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 8th house 
from the Sun and divide the product by 12. The re- 
mainder reckoned from Mesha shows the rast (bhava) 
which when transitted by the Sun brings about one’s own 
death. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the 8th house from the Sun 
has 5 bindus. The product is 204 X 5 = 1020. Dividing by 
12, the remainder is o, therefore 12 is the remainder. Counting 


sl, 18-19 ASHTAKAVARGA 81 


from the Mesha house the 12th is the Meena house. When the 
Sun transits this house, the death of the native may take place. 


AT:— 
ate fire ates Traraa adaz II 
TeMtgarat Awe Taga: | 
akaeae afé frerateasrormast a1 1 
WANs HeaAAy Kal aH Afar: | 
Rea eRt— 
aanea fod qeq Traaa asaz | 
NAMA CAPSTRUA ara arasr 
aang ast ai a fiat 
ud wari ads Preaieafaarac: | 
Notes: Both Parasara and Mantresvara imply by zeqqfq the 
bindus in the 8th house from the Lagna and add further that the 


trine positions of the rasi as calculated, also should be taken into 
account for the father’s death. 


a. a, § 


CHAPTER VII 


ASHTAKAVARGA OF THE MOON 


SAAT TARA TATA: 


ataesimn sfaalitre ancora: | 


BN ayaa: Hardawersnensacea 


masa aa ah Geran 2 UI 


Sloka 1— When the Moon in her Ashtakavarga transits 
bhavas containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows :~- 


8 bindus 


7 


CN 


Nw AW 


1 bindu 


0 


” 


” 


all sorts of comforts, splendour, grace and 
acquirement of many friends ; 
acquisition of fine apparels, tasty and 
rich food, perfumes and festive occa- 
sions ; 

gift of Mantras (initiation), contact with 
virtuous Brahmins ; 

moral courage ; 

neither being happy nor sorrowful ; 
discord with relations and friends ; 
quarrels on account of wife or wealth 
(property); 

unexpected and unavoidable troubles ; 
sorrow, anxiety, death, etc. 


Additional results given by other authors for the 


above 


8. bindus 


WoO UI ON SI 


2, Sardfaa) 2. aagaaseas Fad 


tame ; 

general activity ; 

help from elder brothers ; 
contentment and well-being ; 
happiness ; 

rancour from others ; 


sl. 1-4 ASHTAKAVARGA 83 


2 3 separation from friends and relations, loss 
of wealth ; 
1 bindu danger ; 
oO , unexpected death. 
The Moon’s Ashtakavarga. 


Nee 


ZN EN 


AA TAT FT TETANY + | 
THA TFTA THTMA ATS EAT, Ut 2 A 


Sloka 2— When the Moon transits a Kakshya having a 
bindu in her Ashtakavarga one gets good clothes, orna- 
ments and decorations ; is recognised by people of high 
status and has achievement of aims ( 44 ) expeditiously. 


fre: wens Fa aed SRR ae | 
geaaaadd Fred qaqa tl 3 I 
Sloka.3 — While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu 


the effects are evil results, quarrels with enemies, frequent 
bad dreams and loss of money. 


aatareat arena aot Ta 

ator aa Falcaamahad MATT eA | 
qreegarat gatas aeiaha: Aaa aT 

ASN Tet Teale Ferd daz eas: 18 


Sloka 4— When the Moon transits a bhava containing the 
highest number of bivdus in her Ashtakavarga, tonsure and 
other similar ceremonies pertaining to the native should be 
performed. All desired work should be commenced at 


84 aTeHRT: CHAP. VIz 


this time (for success). One’s prosperity is increased through 
persons such as wife (husband), king, attendant, servant, 
pupil, preceptor or friend, born in a rasi (represented by 
a bhava) which contains the full (the maximum) number 
of bindus in the Moon’s Ashtakavarga of the native. 


Raaiftent — 
WaIAeest: Bade Taagaaa eageal | 
eel afetcattetts aah: seq Aafefa aad gs7a II 


TH GeAal MATA | 
aR Tatar 3 waa ATRAI 4 I 


Sloka 5 —It is very auspicious for the native to visit or 
have first sight of persons born with the Moon in a bhava 
containing the maximum (8) bindus in the Moon’s Ashtaka- 
varga. Also, a gift of clothes, etc., to such persons will 
undoubtedly bring him prosperity. 


TTA AIA Fi _Bi a Faq 
mea find and fF aI 


Maeinarte wat AT & UI 


Sloka 6 — When the Moon transits a bhava void of a 
bindu, one should not perform any auspicious work because 
all functions undertaken then, will end in failure. Even 
contact or association with persons having their Moon in 
the bhavas which contain the least number of bindus (in 
the native’s Moon’s Ashtakavarga), even first look (visit) 
at or from them in the morning will result in great disaster. 
Notes: Wher there is no bhava void of a bindu in the Moon’s 
Ashtakavarga, one should take a bhava having the least number 
of bindus. 


Ma FT Ta FT HoaNIderanstt It Ay | 
gait atl & Faas ce eaeaTNte TETRA 1911 


2a 


sl. 5-93 ASHTAKAVARGA 85 
Sloka 7 — Water collected from tanks, wells, etc., situated 
in the direction represented by the bhava having the maxi- 
mum bindus (in the Moon’s Ashtakavarga) will be auspi- 
cious for bathing and drinking purposes. The Goddess 
Durga (Durga Temple) and the queen (residing) in this 
direction, should be worshipped and served. All the above 
will prove inauspicious, if they are in the direction of the 
bhava having the least number of bindus. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the cardial directions are 


(1) the East and the North (Brihat-jataka) ; (2) the East 
{Prasnamarga). 


TAIT aeftrakrasat ats 
. med TH AHIANT TAL TASTE: | 
TASS TA TIN Sera 
aageaue aul Raaeagt TI < I 


Sloka 8 — Note the bhava void of bindus in the Ashtaka- 
vargas of the Sun and the Moon. When the Sun transits 
that bhava, the solar month, i.e., the period of transit of 
the Sun, should be avoided for all auspicious work. 
Similarly, when the Moon transits such a bhava (in her 
Ashtakavarga) that period also should be avoided. The 
Moon in the Lagna associated with 1, 2 or 3 bindus, will 
make the person slothful and suffer from pulmonary disease. 
If, in the above case, the Moon is in conjunction with 2 or 
3 planets, the person will meet with death in his 37th year. 


HARTA TUS AUT Tapers | 
fegks a af a Gfiedt carat waata aa: 18N 


Sloka 9 — Persons learned in astrology say that when the 
Moon occupies a Kendra, a Trikona or the 11th house and 
is at the same time in her depression or inimical house, 
devoid of any Kalas (i.e., waning Moon) and associated 
with 2 or 3 bindus, the effects of such a bhava become 
extinct. 


EA Gee AUS LCT EL 
ara fan qeaa afe arrate | 


86 SSR CHAP. VII 


feaeh a Fa I Ata 
RN TATSTAST AV: UI Lo UI 


Sloka 10 —If the Moon with full strength (exaltation, own 
house or waxing) is in a Trikona, a Kendra or the 11th 
house and is associated with 4 or more bindus, that bhava 
prospers well. The Moon in a Kendra position associated 
with 8 bindus makes the persons eminent for their learning, 
fame, wealth, strength and leadership. 


PRAT Ag: WareaTAP TAT | 
HET TT TeaTATA HAT kk 
awaat ofteasa uaa snag | 


aearetaraaaaagy FAA: NL? UN 

MAMMA SAT ATT ATA tt LZ Ul 
Slokas 11-13— One should consider about the mother, 
building (residence), village (or city) from the 4th house 
from the Moon. When the Moon transits a rasi void of 
a bindu in her Ashtakavarga, one should avoid that asterism 
(and rasi) for celebrating any auspicious event. 

Note the asterism occupied by the lord of the 8th house 
from the Moon. When she, i.e., the Moon in her transit 
arrives in that asterism or its trine ones, one will invariably 
undergo useless exertion and will suffer from disease and 
misery. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Venus the lord of the 8th 
house from the Moon occupies Swati. 


THEARGSEMA AY I AIT | 

Td A TH: Cet ich eaTT Me UI 
TANT SF TISATATTAS! aT | 
THRTASEA are Hard Raafay un 2s 
marca Raza: a: | 

Raat araRrarat avers saeqtq i 26 


8. Si 


sl. 10-18 ASHTAKAVARGA 87 
Slokas 14-16 — If in the natal chart, the 4th house from the 
Lagna or the Moon is occupied or aspected by Mars or 
Saturn and the time is bad as calculated previously (reckon- 
ed by Dasa order) the death of the mother may take place. 
If the mother is already dead, the person’s death may take 
place even though he has gone to a foreign place. 

If in a horoscope Mars is in the 4th or the 8th house 
from the Moon and the Sun is in the 5th or the 9th house 
from the Moon, separation from the mother takes place. 
If the same positions of Mars and the Sun are from the 
Lagna, separation from the father takes place. Thus, one 
should consider matters regarding the father and the 
mother from the Lagna and the Moon respectively. 


HUA TAMA TONE TA | 

THT TH TNS GHETAITTNNT FAA: 1 VW Ul 
Sloka 17 —If the groom’s Janmarasi is that one which in 
the bride’s Ashtakavarga of the Moon has the maximum 
bindus, there is happiness and prosperity (after marriage). 
Similarly, the wife’s Janmarasi should be the one which has 
the maximum bindus in the groom’s Ashtakavarga of the 
Moon. 


Reattat :— 
aan srahegUal SeaTAA aA TIS | 


delsenata tamara reetrat— 
TaN TEST Peet Rania tl 2 U1 


Sloka 18—JIt is even more auspicious (than that given in 
the preceding verse) to have the Janmarasi of the bride 
as that one which in the groom’s horoscope contains a bindu 
of the planet who is the lord of the Kakshya occupied by 
the Moon while considering the Ashtakavarga of the Moon. 
Similarly, the groom’s Janmarasi should satisfy the 
same condition in the bride’s horoscope. 
Notes: It may so happen that the rasi containing the maximum 
number of bindus (verse No. 17) may not have a bindu 
contributed by the Moon’s Kakshya lord, in which case it is bettex 
to have the next best rasi which has a bindu of the said lord. 


88 aTeRal: CHAP. VII 


wat: gard vale ae awn | 
ae Raaaetena: searetala Berd wang 1 28.1 


Sloka 19 — It is very auspicious to have the groom’s Moon 
in a Kakshya in any bhava (rasi) which contains a bindu 
in the Moon’s Ashtakavarga of the bride and similarly to 
have the bride’s Moon in a Kakshya in any bhava which 
has a bindu in the Ashtakavarga of the Moon in the 
groom’s horoscope. This is known as Prastara (distri- 
butive selection). 

Notes: Note the Moon’s longitude in the groom’s horoscope. 
Find out in which Kakshya this position falls in the bride’s 
horoscope. If there is a bindu in that Kakshya in her Moon’s 
Ashtakavarga it is auspicious. Similarly, observe in the groom’s 
horoscope the position of the bride’s Moon. 

In the Standard Horoscope the position of the Moor is 
G6°-13°-34’. It falls in the Kakshya of Jupiter in the wife's 
horoscope. There is a bizdu in her Moon’s Ashtakavarga. 

The wife’s Moon (6*-29°-46’) falls in a Kakshya of the 
Sun in the native’s horoscope which has a bindu in his Moon’s 
Ashtakavarga. 


agieaal TeReageraeaaTST 
PAUATCUTIAM FT IAT TY | Re 


Sloka 20—In the Moon’s Ashtakavarga, the house occu- 
pied by the lord of the Kakshya in which the Moon is 
posited or the house in rast or Navamsa occupied by the 
lord of the Lagna should be the Janmarasi of a wife for a 
prosperous life. 

Devakeralam and other works :— 


1. The Moon with 1, 2 or 3 bindus in the Lagna causes 
Catarrh or Asthma. 

2. The person would have lost his mother in infancy 
itself, if the Moon is in the 7th, 8th or 12th house from 
the Lagna with few bindus in her Ashtakavarga. In 
the above case if the mother does not die, she 


2, Here: 


sl. 19-21 ASHTAKAVARGA 89 


may suffer from severe illness during the early years 
of the child. 

3. When the Moon is in a Kendra or the 12th house asso- 
ciated with 1 to 3 bindus only, and malefics are in the 
4th house, the native will lose his mother in his 6th 

ear. 

4. When the Moon is in the Lagna associated with 1 or 
2 bindus only, there is danger for the person and possi- 
bility of the death of the mother. If, in addition, 
malefic planets are in the 4th house from the Moon 
(i.e., the Lagna) the mother dies in his 36th year of 
life. 

5. In the Ashtakavarga of the Moon, if there are 1, 2 or 
3 bindus (after the reductions) in the Lagna with the 
Moon in it, the person meets with an injury by weapons 
or poisons, or there is a possibility of the death of 
his mother. 

6. After the reductions, if the Moon (in whichever bhaza 
she may be) has 5 or more bindus, then that bhava 
prospers during the Dasa of the lord of that bhava. 

7. The number of brothers and sisters of the mother 
can be ascertained from the number of bindus in the 
4th house from the Moon. Béindus donated by male 
planets indicate brothers and the rest sisters. 


shateasqahaanated ateates wand | 
Tey Hd agS aaa 


AAT: UW RL Ul 
Sloka 21— Multiply the Moon’s Shodhyapinda by the 
aumber of bindus in the 4th house (before the reductions) 
from the Moon and divide the product by 27. The 
remainder reckoned from Aswini shows the asterism which 
when transitted by Saturn, brings about the death of the 
mother. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the Moon’s Shodhyapinda 
94x4 (bindus in the 4th house from the Moon before the 
reductions) gives product 376. Dividing by 27, the remainder 
is 25 which :— i 8 ; ; 
1. counted from Aswini gives Purvabhadrapada ; 
2. - a Saturn's asterism (Sravana) gives Moola. 


90 aera: CHAP, VIL 


Saturn’s transit through any one of the above two asterisms. 
may bring about the death of the mother. 


qaeaion Mepszar war flaca ea a tafae feafes | 
PRET ala aaaemtasal a fafa: 1 22 


Sloka 22 — As explained in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga, in 
order to find the time of death of a native’s father, calcu- 
lations are also required to be made from the positions of 
Jupiter and the Sun. In a similar way calculations should 
be made in respect of the Moon’s Ashtakavarga for 
the positions of Jupiter and the Sun to ascertain the time 
of the mother’s death. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope to find Jupiter’s posi- 
tion : Multiply 94 by 7 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter) 
= 658 divided by 27 gives remainder 10 which counted from 
Aswini gives Magha. 

To find the Sun's position 94x5 (bivdus in the 7th house 
from the Sun) = 470 divided by 27 gives remainder 11 which 
counted from Aswini gives Purvaphalguni. 

Devakeralam :— 

Multiply the number of bindus in the Chandra Lagna by 
the number of binds in the 8th house from her position and 
divide the product by 12. The remainder shows the solar month 
(counted from Mesha) of the mother’s death. 

In the Standard Horoscope bindus in the Chandra Lagna 
3x3 (bindus in the 8th house from the Moon) = 9 ; dividing by 
12, remainder is 9. The mother’s death may take place during 
the solar month represented by the Dhanus house. 


TUT :— 
aABateers TAS WaT II 
Bea a Tat area argent AA | 
aeararg ar SPreafsrg Baad It 
Redttat s— 
aaraete: es eat araarar | 
at ara argea: Rameaast ar tt 


PLPAL GS 


CHAPTER VII 
ASHTAKAVARGA OF MARS 
Haass: aateraedae 
TASAT FaaAqTaAaT aet Fadia: | 
aaa: Hardaee: aathaltrasa- 
PHATE AST: 8 Ul 


Sloka 1— When Mars in his Ashtakavarga transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows :— 
8 bindus gain of wealth and lands ; victory over 
enemies ; 
wealth from brothers and also to them ; 
a King’s (master’s) favourite ; 
pleasing behaviour ; 
pleasure and pain mixed and equal ; 
separation from brothers and wife ; 
quarrel on account of coveted things and 
money ; 
1 bindu bodily afflictions by weapons (opera- 
tion), fire, fever or smallpox ; 
O45 stomach-ache, eye disease, faints and 
death. 
Mars’ Ashtakavarga 


VAINOANS 


Additional results given by other authors for the 
above :— 


g. dargarae: «2. afte 3. Aaaitaal ¥. oT 


NW KWAN ~] 


92 TERA: cHap, VJ 


7 bindus great luck and accumulation of wealth ; 
5 , handsome look ; 

4 4 general happiness ; 

3, danger ; 

2 & separation from brothers and wife, 


censure and dishonour from enemies and 
opponents. 


aaa ate teat ordat wea A * | 
arangstees araptied vata U8 
Sloka 2 — When Mars transits a Kakshya having a bindu 


in his Ashtakavarga, the person acquires money, improves 
health, life and bodily lustre. 


Frgraea Ge Tagzalien: at + | 

AVIS AI THAT ATI 3 I 
Sloka-3 — While cransitting a Kakshya void of a bindu, he 
(Mars) always produces Dyspepsia (indigestion), creates 


headache and gives troubles due to impurities of blood 
and bile. 


amertt a: Gayl UR ETA | 
yaanearerranatad vated aa ie i 


Sloka 4— When Mars passes through a bhava containing 
the highest number of bindus in his Ashtakavarga, one 
should purchase land, gold, etc., in order to ensure pros- 
perity. 
aaraead eq Baavet wart a we 
quiterat fearat TareTA TAT TT AME I 
gota foomatt Raat aera: 
et ae ofa TA TT FV 1% I 


Sloka 5 —In the Ashtakavarga of Mars note the direction 
denoted by the bhava (rasi) containing the full (highest) 
number of bindus. Worship of Kartikeya (Commander- 
in-Chief of Gods), audience with a King, visit to a 
minister or work connected with lands, all these located 


sl. 2-7 ASHTAKAVARGA 93 


in the above direction will prove auspicious. That direc- 
tion in one’s own house is also good for locating the 
kitchen and the sacrificial place. The enemies can be 
easily subdued, if the attack is made in the direction 
denoted by the rasi having the highest number of bindus, 
and at a time when it is rising. Mars’ transit over a 
bhava void of or having very few bindus and the direction 
indicated by it, will be unfavourable (for the above 
functions). 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the cardinal directions are 
(1) the North (Brihat-jataka) ; (2) the South (Prasnamarga). 


WaTERaises TEAM: TA: alee: 
RIE CROP CACC MEISE ARE LUG El 
Gafararaead BE WU Tawaisey 
TQ Waal W FT FAVA: GE wget I § 1! 


Sloka 6— The number of brothers (and sisters) is equal 
to the number of bindus in the 3rd house from Mars 
(before the reductions). Of these, those contributed by 
male planets indicate brothers and the rest sisters (contri- 
buted by female planets); their welfare or otherwise 
depending on the planets donating the bindus. This 
method will be explained in detail in Jupiter’s Ashtaka- 
varga (Chapter No. X verse No. 12) while determining 
the number of children. The transit of Mars through a 
bhava void of any bindu after the reductions, may cause 
afflictions or death to brothers (sisters). 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Tula the 3rd house from 
Mars contains only 1 bindu (contributed by Saturn). 


afte aarena araat Rad Faq | 
Vad aws TIA AA: ASA: GAT: I 9 1 


Sloka 7 — Find out the number of bindus in the 3rd bhava 
from Mars (in his Ashtakavarga). Out of these omit the 
bindus contributed by inimical and debilitated planets. 
The remaining bindus will Eero the number of brothers 
(and sisters). 


oe 


04 TERA cHaP. VII 


Raattear — 
aargiaakeaas alas aq | 


Bah TRAVIATA 

ava 3 ae Arar: Aq | 
samfaerrHeomde 

WA JEaHAlIT F UST (<1 


Sloka 8 — When Mars, associated with 8 bindus, is exalted 
or is in his own house and occupies the 9th, 4th, 1st or 
10th bhava the person becomes a multimillionaire.* If 
Dhanus, Mesha, Simha, Makara or Vrischika becomes the 
Lagna and Mars associated with 4 (or more) bindus occu- 
pies it, the native becomes a King. 


ses TTA SRE 
MAST TTA FT ATA: SAA | 
AMMSTAISSA BS STAT 
SIMA TAHA 11S A 


Sloka 9 — When Mars is associated with 8 bindus (in any 
bhava) the person born becomes a petty King; if that 
happens to be the 10th or 1st house,” he will be a King ; if 
he is born in a royal family, he will be a King of the whole 
country ; if the said Mars be in exaltation or in his own 
house in addition to the above, the person becomes an 


Emperor. 
Rraoatrt Seat TN at VaR: + | 
ET aT ara Tota FE AR RAAT Uo I 
aatrea gata sears Aafeag | 
maT FANT HS IT A THAI ULL UI 
AT YOUMSATT: SMLAMG: TAIT | 
1 Devakeralam adds that such a person born in a royal 


family becomes an Emperor. 
2. the 2nd house according to Devakeralam. 


‘sl. 8-13 ASHTAKAVARGA 95 


gan aa athe wea at 7 RR 


a TAA ANTA AAT | 
HOT AT eflara TT ANAT; GIA: 1 23 A 


Slokas 10-13— The cardinal directions indicated by the 
bhavas which contain more bindus after Trikonashodhana 
help us to decide favourable directions in respect of land, 
wife, wealth and residence ; in unfavourable conditions, i.e., 
when there are less number of bindus destruction of appa- 
rels are indicated in those directions. 

If after Ekadhipatyashodhana a bhava has less bindus, 
loss of lands, etc., will take place in the direction denoted 
by the bhava (rasi); but wherever there are more bindus, 
good etfects (from the above things) are obtained, so says 
Devashala. 

Even though Mars is not powerful still, if he is asso- 
ciated with more bindus in his Ashtakavarga he bestows 
longevity to brothers (sisters) but the same Mars with less 
bindus causes gradual loss of lands, etc. 


arrar:— 
Wawa dea wig 3 | 
Wa aehdaae doaraad aaa 


Devakeralam and other works :— 


1. When Mars associated with more than 4 bindus, is 
in his exaltation or in his own house and that rast becomes 
the Lagna, Chandra Lagna, 10th or 9th house, the person 
born earns immense wealth. 

2. Mars as the lord of the 2nd house posited in the 
6th house with 6 bindus will create, many enemies to the 
person but he will be having all the enjoyments of life, even 
from his birth. (This can happen only in Tula and Meena 
Lagnas). 

3. If Mars, as the lord of the Lagna and the 8th house, 
is in the Lagna, Chandra Lagna, 10th or 9th house, asso- 
ciated with 1 to 3 bimdus and is in conjunction with lower 
class planets, or planets in debilitation, the person born 


96 ORT: cHap, VIII 


will be an adopted son. (This happens only in Mesha 
Lagna). 

4. When Mars with 6 bindus is debilitated or in 
combust in the 6th, 8th or 12th house, associated with 
waxing Moon or is ina Kendra, the person, will be without 
brothers. 


5. If Mars is strong, one becomes a village chief. 
Mars with 4 bindus in the Lagna, 5th house or Kendra 
makes a person brotherless. 


6. Mars or Saturn in the 3rd house (from the Lagna) 
with 1 to 3 bindus in Mars’ Ashtakavarga causes loss of 
brothers. When Saturn and Mars are in conjunction 
with 1 to 3 bindus there is loss of brothers as well. 


7. There will be brothers if Mars is in the 3rd house 
associated with 4 or more bindus with an aspect from a 
benefic. 


8. The mutual malefic aspect between the lords of 
the 7th and 4th houses also causes loss of brothers. 


9. In Mars’ Ashtakavarga the following effects are 
noticed according as the Lagna is Chara (movable), Sthira 
(fixed) or Ubhaya (common) rasi :— 

(a) the Lagna a Chara rasi and Saturn in an Ubhaya 
rasi with 1 to 3 bindus indicate loss of brothers 
and sisters ; 

(b) the Lagna an Ubhaya rast and Saturn in a Chara 
rast with 1 to 3 bindus indicate loss of brothers ; 

(c) the Lagna a Sthira rasi and Mars or Saturn any- 
where with 1 to 3 binvdus indicate loss of the 
father and brothers ; 

(d) the Lagna a Chara rasi and Saturn anywhere with 
5 or more bindus will make the native rich and 
will bestow many brothers ; 

(e) the Lagna a Sthira rasi and Saturn in a Ubhaya 
rast in the 5th house with 4 or more bindus will 
make the native longlived, rich and comfortable ; 
and will bestow many brothers. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 97 


10. When Mars, in conjunction with the lord of the 
7th house, is in debilitation or in combust or has associa- 
tion or aspect from malefics, there will be loss of brothers. 


11. Mars in the 8th house from Saturn, or Saturn in 
the 8th house from Mars, with 1 to 3 bindus, indicates loss 
of brothers (this is quincunx aspect); much more so, if 
the 3rd house from the Lagna also is occupied by malefics. 

12. There will be as many brothers as there are bindus 
in the house where Mars is situated, or in his trine houses, 
when anyone of these is aspected by a benefic. (This is 
another way to find the number of brothers). 

13. The number of brothers will be equal to :— 

(a) the number of Navamsas passed over (aaaata) 
by Mars when he is in the 3rd house associated 
with 3 bindus ; 

(b) the number of bindus in the house occupied 
by Mars ; and 

(c) the number of bindus that remain in the 3rd 
house from the Lagna after Trikonashodhana. 
(This figure represents the number of brothers 
alive). 

14. If Mars with 4 bizdus is in mutual aspect or is in 
conjunction with Saturn, the person will be the head ot 
many States or a dispenser of justice provided Mars is not 
in debilitation or in combust. 

15. If Mars with 1 to 3 bindus, is in any house in 
conjunction with or aspected by Mercury, the person born 
will be poor and suffering privations, sorrow, etc. 

16. If Mars with more than 4 bindus is in any bhava 
with the Moon or is aspected by her, the person will be 
the head of many States. 


17. When Mars as the lord of the 4th house, occupies 
his own house associated with 4 béudus, a person born in 
a royal family will own 3 to 4 fortresses. If the said Mars 
is in the 10th house, he will be a King or dispenser of 
justice. If the person is a Brahmin, he will be conducting 
and performing many sacrifices (Yagnas). If a Vaisya, 
he will amass wealth by agriculture and trade. If a Sudra, 


a. qv 


98 BACHA: cuap, VIII 


he will be a Commander in army, or will have high posi- 
tion in life. (This can happen only for Simha and Makara 
Lagnas). 

18. Multiply the number of bindus in the 3rd house 

from Mars by the number of bindus in the 8th house there- 
from and divide the product by 12. The remainder 
reckoned from Mesha represents the solar month for afflic- 
tions to brothers. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope multiply 1 (the number of 
bindus in the 3rd house from Mars) by 2 (the number of bixdus 
in the 8th house from that, i.e., 12th house from the Lagna). The 
product 2, divided by 12 leaves remainder 2. This represents the 
solar month Vrishabha. 


ameat drat waar | 
WakaTea Ve URPNTE TAT I BV I 
anita TSE aT | 
areal Tat aa saat FAA Hk 


Slokas 14, 15 —One should consider all about brothers, 
valour and courage from the Ashtakavarga of Mars. The 
3rd house from Mars is called the house of brothers. 

Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mars by the number of 

bindus (before the reductions) in the 3rd house from him 
and carry out the other calculations as were done in the 
Sun’s Ashtakavarga. When Saturn transits that asterism, 
the demise of or injury to brother may happen. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Mars’ Shodhyapinda 153 x1 
(bindu in the 3rd house from Mars before the reductions) = 153 
divided by 27, gives remainder 18. Counted from Aswini this 
gives Jyeshta. Wher Saturn transits Jyeshta or its trines, the said 
effects may take place. 

To find Jupiter’s position :— 

153 x 2 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter in Mars’ Ashtaka- 
varga) = 306 divided by 27, gives remainder 9 which gives Aslesha 
and its trines for Jupiter’s transit. 

To find the Sun’s position :— 

153 x 5 (bindus in the 7th house from the Sun in Mars’ 


s}, 14-16 ASHTAKAVARGA 99 


Ashtakavarga) '=765 divided by 27, gives remainder 9 which gives 
Aslesha and its trines for the Sun’s transit. 


_ In the Ashtakavargas of Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus, 
it is appropriate to consider the asterism along with its trines also, 
since it is possible to have more than one relation represented by 
those Karaka planets. 


MUTA JU SsAIeA TAA: 
Rerisngarnaaite st TATA: | 


TEAM AA AAA ATCA 
aftaeishtery areata: Arearaarana: (28 


Sloka 16— Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mars by the 
number of bindus in the 3rd house from him (before the 
reductions) and divide the product by 12. The remainder 
reckoned from Mesha house shows the house which when 
transitted by Jupiter brings much benefits through brothers. 
Again the Dasa and Antara of the lord of that rast shows 
the time when brothers are born and also benefits from 
brothers can be expected. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Mars’ Shodhyapinda 153 x1 
(bindu in the 3rd house from Mars before the reductions) = 153 
divided by 12, leaves remainder 9 which represents the Dhanus 
house, Jupiter’s transit through that house and the Dasa and 
Antara of the lord thereof, i.e., Jupiter, will bring about the 
aforesaid results. 


CHAPTER IX 


ASHTAKAVARGA OF MERCURY 


ger earataarerat shore arsalearqa: 
TAANTAMITA ATATMA SATA | 
Rraeagen Bataaia tt aeres- 
Sa FAIIafeaa: AAA Be te A 


Sloka 1— When Mercury in his Ashtakavarga transits 
bhavas containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows :-— 


honour from King or Government (Rul- 
ing power); 

affluence of wealth, intelligence, learning 
and happiness ; 

success in all undertakings ; 

new friends and relations ; 


- lack of enthusiasm in work ; 


uneasiness due to mental worries ; 
sickness on account of the three humours, 
Vata, Pitta and Kapha (wind, bile and 
phlegm); 

enforced imprisonment, other kinds of 
dangers and sorrow ; and 

loss of everything and consequent death. 


Additional results given by other authors for the 


8 bindus 

Po gy 

6 » 

5» 

4, 

3 33 

2 °° 

1 bindu 

Oo » 
above :— 

8 bindus 

7 3? 

6 ” 


all kinds of good luck ; 

broadminded and philanthropic living 
without worries ; 

capacity to grasp and accomplish easily 
even the most intricate and abstruse 
problems ; 


a a a LR, ES te 


2 favengoastenaaa: sgaftarely- 
Sug takers aad adesrenfaesfa: II 


sl. 1-4 ASHTAKAVARGA 101 


4 , contentment ; 
1 bindu tormented very often by enemies ; and 
0 loss of all property through enemy in- 


trigues and finally death. 


Mercury’s Ashtakavarga 


TTA tau ates Heri waa aa x | 

aaa Rezarfigra: i 2 
Sloka 2— When Mercury transits a Kakshya having a 
bindu in his Ashtakavarga, one gets happiness and sweet- 
meats (sumptuous meal) always and rejoices in giving alms, 


doing charitable deeds and becomes a devotee of Brahmins, 
God and Agni (37). 


Rrginaaaa wad SRR: ae + | 

Haz Maaaad TA I 3 A 
Sloka 3 — While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu, 
he (Mercury) will give minor injuries ; the native quar- 
rels with enemies, gets bad dreams and untimely meals. 


TNT FVeI FT TaTaaataat: | 
qeeay vaeenfaltagate Fda i 2 


Sloka 4—One should think about the family (welfare), 
wealth, children and maternal relations from the 4th house 
from Mercury and about Mantras (#3) learning, writing 
and intellect from his 5th house. 


madi — gaaenssiannt at age F I! 


102 ate: CBAP. IX 


hasnt gagaTaediar a ate | 
FOI THAIS TIT ISTH 14 UI 


Slokd 5—If the 2nd house from Mercury contains not 
even 1 bindu in his Ashtakavarga, the person born will be 
dumb. If it contains 1, 2 or 3 bindus, his speech will be 
unsteady and tremulous. 


HOA TENT Ie THT THAT AAS TTT | 
adanReaadt + aol wee ated TEA AT US 


Sloka 6 — When the number of bindus (in the 2nd bhava 
from Mercury) is 4, the person will talk well after some 
one else has spoken. If there are 5 or 6 bindus, his speech 
will be commendable by virtuous persons and fitting to the 
occasion ; with 7 bindus he will be a scholar capable of 
composing poems and dramas. 


FNS TA ANA AT HSTA Faq | 
aan Tr saralediaa i 9 II 


Sloka 7 — When the number of bimdus is 8, nobody will 
be capable enough to answer the questions put by him in 
debate or oppose him. When the 2nd bhava from the 
Lagna (in Mercury’s Ashtakavarga) is void of bindus, the 
person will be incapable of expressing even his own inten- 
tions properly. 

Notes: As stated in the first line of the verse, the 2nd house 
from Mercury cannot contain 8 bindus because he does not contri- 
bute a bindu in that house. Hence, the 2nd house from the 
Lagna may be considered as it may contain 8 bindus. 


The 2nd house from the Lagna will have at least 1 bindu 
contributed by the Lagna (2nd line of the verse). Therefore, 


the expression “ aa wma fediaa ” may be construed to mean 
that there should be no bindu contributed by any donor 


other than the Lagna. This is the accepted view. 


UUITH F TANT VAT Td TMS | 
AMAT MMHAT AANA SATEATERTT Itc Ul 


sl. 5-12 ASHTAKAVARGA 103 
Sloka 8—If the bindus in the 2nd house from Mercury 
are donated by malefics, the native’s speech is full of deceit 
and arrogance ; if donated by benefics the speech will be 
virtuous. If the bindu is contributed by the Sun, the speech 
is in the form of wise counsel, while Saturn’s bindu makes 
it vile (i.e., improper or unsuitable to the occasion), and 
that of Mars causes discord. 

Notes: Even the wise counsel will be of an imposing nature. 


TARA TIA TO: THAT aaa ghATAT | 
TUTTE MAT RST Ad Tas SATA US 


Sloka 9 — The person’s speech is sweet if the bindu (in 
the 2nd house) is donated by Mercury ; it is distinct and 
clever if Jupiter’s ; it shows erudition in Puranas and 
Kavyas and is also delighting if Venus’; and it is deceptive 
if Sacurn’s. 

Netes : Regardng Mercury refer to notes under verse No. 7. 


wentead drags are aafwetaae | 
wastage canacat gafedtrera ate a 1 Lo 


Sloka 10—-If the Moon, posited in her depression or inimical 
sign, has contributed a bindu, the speech of the native will 
be sluggish and doubtful. If Ketu, Mandi or Rahu occu- 
pies the 2nd house from Mercury, the speech will be vile 
and harsh. 


ATA Td TAA Aas MIMS st | 
UZ VUGTARA F TT TA aASe TTT: 112211 


Sloka 11 — When Ketu is in the 2nd house from Mercury, 
one’s speech will be indecent in an assembly ; when it is 
Mandi, it will be about thefts, curses or scandals and when 
ic is Rahu, it will be depraved and about wicked deeds. 
Notes: In the previous four verses, the 2nd house from the 
Lagna is considered by some commentators as that house rules 
speech. 


TGA + TIMEAat TAH Ta | 
wef & fae aaa gat aera aE: 11 22 


§ aeaad 


104 ann: cHaP. IX 


Sloka 12—In Mercury’s Ashtakavarga when he is in a 
bhava void of bindus, there is lack of brilliancy in intel- 
ligence. Mental lethargy is the result for the period when 
Mercury passes through bhavas void of bindus. 

Notes: Here, the house where Mercury is situated will con- 
tain at least 1 bivdu comtributed by him. Hence the question how 
to explain Sunya (voidness of bindu) may arise. A reasonable 
answer to this is that there is no bindu contributed by the 
other planets or the Lagna in the said house. 


ACME HMA Saas WHIMSY Wit 

aa dyna aaa falssray | 
aalsd afe srafahtgerrenstaalra 

Wey AT Fat aTw lea Hay AIAT U1 23 I 
wey visa A AT AeA Fal AAT AT | 
MATS aat saat ar AParcaaTy Ul 22 


Slokas 13, 14— When Saturn transits a bhava which has 
no bindu (after the reductions) in Mercury’s Ashtakavarga, 
misfortune or death of the brothers and children of the 
native’s kinsmen may happen. But, if the said bhava 
happens to be 3rd, 6th, 10th or 11th (Upachaya) house 
from the Moon, the bad effect is very much mitigated. The 
effects of any other bhava (void of bindus) are nullified 
when Saturn transits it. 

If the said house happens to be the 8th or 12th from 
the Moon, then during Saturn’s transit over it, the person 
suffers bodily ailments or even meets with death. 


qIanena der aaa | 
areata: Reads ane F IEA 1 24 I 


Sloka 15 — The commencement of any Vidya (new study) 
will be successful and also one will succeed in literary and 
legal debates when Mercury passes through bhavas con- 
taining many bindus. 


Rate vara ae: aftare: aq | 
TAR TA AAS Fea Taqiaasars: 2S | 


sl. 13-18 ASHTAKAVARGA 105 
Sloka 16 -— Commencement of any Vidya will be a com- 
plete success, if it is during the solar month corresponding 
to the bhava containing the highest number of bindus in 
Mercury’s Ashtakavarga. When Saturn transits a bhava 
having no bindu, loss of some relation, kinsman or wealth 
will take place. 
Racnesant-gerrenatasat fe 
enfkarered Gera a Rag eel a cert RAT 
HSA MATRA TAT TAT 
id 
ard a aqaeran atgag at hg NN 0 I 
Sloka 17 — The cardinal direction represented by a bhava 
having many (maximum) bindus in Mercury’s Ashtaka- 
varga, should be the place for quick success in education. 
Location of the playground, place of worship of God 
Vishnu and service to Yuvaraja should be in that direction. 
A person who argues the case (in the Court) standing in 
that direction, or at a time when that rast (bhava) is rising, 
is sure to succeed in litigation. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the cardinal direction is the 
South according to both the methods. 


HRA Tag T Tera | 
aeneaazaahaeat aeraslet aT arse It Lo 


Sleka 18—One, born with Mercury in a Kendra or 
Trikona associated with 8 bindus, becomes conspicuous in 
learning pertaining to his caste and enjoys many comforts. 
Mercury in his exaltation, own house, etc., even associated 
with 1, 2 or 3 bindus, does not impair but advance that 
bhava. 

Notes: In the above case if Mercury (with 1 to 3 bindus) is 
debilitated or in inimical house, the effects of the said bhava are 
nullified. 

Devakeralam and other works — 

1. When Mercury is in the 6th, 8th or 12th bhava, asso- 
ciated with 1 to 3 bindus and has no aspect from a 
benefic planet, the person born will be a gambler and 
meanminded. 


106 


sTSHaT: CHAP. IX 


If Mercury associated with 3 bindus and in conjunction 
with Venus is in the 6th, 8th or 12th bhava, the 
person born will be illiterate and a boor. 


. If Mercury associated with 5 or more bindus is in 


Trikona in conjunction or having aspect from Saturn 
or Jupiter, the person born will be well versed in 
the Vedas. (Saturn and Jupiter are planets of philo- 
sophy). 

If Mercury is in the 6th house from Saturn and is 
associated with 5 bindus and Jupiter is in the 2nd 
house from the Lagna, the person born will become an 
eminent astrologer. 


(a) If Mercury associated with 5 bindus is in 
conjunction with Jupiter and Mars; or (b) if Mer- 
cury (with 5 bizdus) in conjunction with Jupiter, 
aspects Mars the person born becomes a good logician 
(in whichever bhava Mercury may be). 


In Mercury’s Ashtakavarga if the 5th house from the 
Lagna has 1 to 3 bimdus with Ketu in that house, or 
if Ketu in conjunction with the lord of the 5th is in 
any bhava, the person born will be proficient in astro- 
logy. (In all its branches Phala, Ganita, etc.) 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the 5th house from the Lagna 
contains 2 bindus. Ketu and Venus (Lord of the 5th house) 


occupy it. 


7. 


10. 


If Mercury has Navamsa in his own house, the native 
will be proficient in sculpture, poetry, Vedanta and 
fine Arts. 

If Mercury is associated with Saturn, Venus and the 
Moon, the person born will be proficient in dance, 
music and jugglery. 

If Mercury, associated with more than 4 bindus, is in 
the house of Mars or in the Navamsa of Venus and 
is aspected by Jupiter, the person born becomes a 
great poet and dramatist. 

If Mercury, having debilitation in Navamsa and 
association with malefics (conjunction or aspect), is. 


11. 


13. 


14, 


15. 


16. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 107 


in any bhava with more than 4 bindus, the person born 
will be proficient in dance, music and mimicry. 
Mercury with 1 to 3 bindus in any bhava but having 
Navamsa in a female sign, will destroy the effects of 
that bhava. 

If the lord of the house where Mercury is situated is 
associated with more than 4 bindus in Mercury's 
Ashtakavarga, and is in a Kendra or Trikona (from the 
Lagna) aspected by a benefic, the person born will have 
learning, fame and intelligence. 

When the lord of the bhava occupied by Mercury is 
in the 6th, 8th or 12th bhava from the Lagna, there 
will be many obstacles in education. Even if that lord 
be in his own house, or in his exaltation with 1 to 3 
bindus only (in Mercury’s Ashtakavarga), the effects 
of the bhava occupied by Mercury do not prosper. 
Even though Mercury is in debilitation or in combust 
or in inimical house, still, he is a beneficiary if associa- 
ted with 4 or more bindus. He confers the effects of 
the bhava occupied. 

In Mercury’s Ashtakavarga note the rasts having more 
than 4 bindus. Out of these, find out the rast which 
has an aspect from a benefic. The period of Mercury’s 
transit through this rast (bhava), is the most auspicious 
one to start education so that even a person of weak 
intellect becomes very proficient. 

Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mercury by the number 
of bindus (before the reductions) in the 10th house 
from him and divide the product by 27. When Saturn 
passes through the asterism represented by the 
temainder counted from Aswini, there will be loss in 
trade, business (or some troubles in service). 


Notes: Im the Standard Horoscope Mercury’s Shodhyapinda 170 
X 4 (bindus in the 10th house from him before the reductions) 
= 680 divided by 27, gives remainder 5 ; Mrigasiras which when: 
transitted by Saturn brings about loss in trade, business, etc. 


aaRuaatted FaTElee 
TUTAsHATITA Ta Het: | 


108 aeHaT: cuap. IX 


TMT FT TAT 
Reavy at a IT A U1 88 I 

Fearatat TN at Hs: TAA: | 

fafgeaat a atat aaraait ReAATT 1 Re 
Slokas 19,20 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mercury by 
the number of bizdus (before the reductions) in the 2nd 
house from him ; divide the product by 12 and get the 
remainder. Find which rasi (bbava) it represents when 
counted from Mesha house. Then, the Dasa and Antara 
of the lord of that rasi and the time when Jupiter transits 
that bhava, are the best periods for learning new Vidyas 
(Sciences). In addition, all things represented by Mercury 
such as ambassadorship, professorship, etc., can be acquir- 
ed during these periods. 
Noies: In the Standard Horoscope Mercury’s Shodhyapinda 170 
X 2 (bindus in the 2nd house from him before the reductions) = 
340 divided by 12 Icaves remainder 4 which represents the Kataka 
house. fupiter’s transit through that house and the Dasa and 
Antara of the lord thereof, i.e... the Moon, will bring about the 
aforesaid results. 

TET TANT MUTITT Tet | 

aeqeararnalsad AT AAT RL A! 
Sloka 21 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mercury by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 4th house 
from Mercury and divide the product by 27. The remainder 
reckoned from Aswini gives the asterism which when 
transitted by Saturn, makes one lose his relations, friends, 
etc., without doubt. 
Notes: Inthe Standard Horoscope Mercury’s Shodhyapinda 170 
1 (bindu in the 4th house from him before the reductions) = 170 
divided by 27 gives remainder 8. Counted from Aswini this 
gives Pushya. When Saturn transits Pushya or its trines the said 
effects may take place. 

To find Jupiter’s position :— 
170 X 3 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter in Mercury's 

Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 510 divided by 27 leaves 


sl, 19-21 ASHTAKAVARGA 109 


remainder 24 which gives Shatatara and its trines for Jupiter's 


transit. 
To find the Sun’s position :— 
170 X 4 (bindus in the 7th house from the Sun in Mercury's 


Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 680 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 5 which gives Mrigasiras and its trines for the Sun’s 


transit. 


CHAPTER X 


ASHTAKAVARGA OF JUPIT. ER 
avyaiacerataa araraateteay 

qalaleaeraleerearHatss: | 
anraahdiaa TTR ATTN 


quenqadageaeayTTT:? (1 2 
Sloka 1— When Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga transits 
bbhavas containing 8 to 0 bindus, the results are as 


follows :-— 


8 bindus 


4 

3 

2. 35 
1 bindu 
0 


”? 


one becomes a King or gets power and 
status equal to a King ; 

various kinds of wealth and general 
happiness ; 


. good dress, conveyance, gold, etc. ; 


destruction of enemies and success in 
undertakings ; 

neither profit nor loss ; 

ear diseases and loss of vitality ; 
displeasure from the ruling powers ; 
loss of wealth and relations ; 
deterioration of intelligence, wealth and 
children. 


Additional results given by other authors for the 


above :— 

7 bindus acquisition of wealth and children ; 

5 ess contact with and residence amongst good 
and sincere friends ; 

4 , meanness, ridicule from others ; 

3 os poverty, distress and no settled quarters ; 

2. %s loss of wife, children and landed pro- 
perty ; 

1 bindu persecution by enemy ; 

Oo , death of children. 


2 aideaisoaa: aardiraa: daraderadt 


— 


2 EH 


R wea wearer aeqgay: | 


sl, 1-3 ASHTAKAVARGA 111 


Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga 


Tar Fat Haaa at Aadeakege 

HAM sada TEA FT PeTy «| 
Maal Farad Taeeas 

mel aed THTATS TAIT Ul RU 


Sloka 2 — When Jupiter transits a Kakshya having a bindu 
in his Ashtakavarga, increase in wealth, general happiness 
and conjugal bliss are the results. One becomes a destroyer 
of enemies, respectable and energetic ; enjoys great pros- 
perity, increase of good apparels and gold ; all sorts of 
happiness in abundance. He becomes a Serpent of gifts 
from relations. 


fre: ae Anaaadalaa Rakai 

WT AS AAA AT Was TTATST * | 
MAME wala Bes TAAATS TAT 

Mad STAT AAT aATHTANTA: 1 3 UI 


Stoka 3— While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu, 
one suffers from misery due to loss of wealth and intelli- 
gence ; becomes mentally worried over money matters. He 
often meets obstacles in travel or suffers a fall from a vehicle. 
One quarrels with all and suffers dishonour through speech. 
One is often troubled by enemies and excessive spending. 
There is futility of efforts through rashness. 


iy 


112 eR: CHAP. X 


HARETAT rt TVTTTAUTTT | 
eenaly darraty Beye 8 


Sloka 4— One should consider about knowledge, children, 
religion, wealth, etc., from the 5th house from Jupiter and 
general consideration of children from Jupiter’s Ashtaka- 
varga. 


aa TE TI arrest faa 

WAM TEI FAO AMAT ATTA: 
FAIA AUT TAM aa HAT 

FONUAAT HOT: TATA AHS: U4 I 


Sloka 5 — All functions such as initiation into sacred Man- 
tras, repitition of the same, oblation to the sacred fires, 
performance of sacrifices, etc., study of Vedas, feeding of 
Brahmins, all attempts to beget progeny, amassing of 
wealth, etc., will prove effective when they are undertaken 
at the time of Jupiter’s transit over a bhava containing the 
highest number of bimdus in his Ashtakavarga. All these 
prove unsuccessful, if they are begun when Jupiter passes 
through a bhava having the least number of bindus, 


te GE TRAM SSAA 

TRH vite: AAR AI TN aA | 
UMNZEATIAAT RATATAT TANT 

amartt aftia f car Rarerdzrt 11 § 1 


Sloka 6 — The cardinal direction indicated by the house 
containing the maximum number of bindus, and/or, the 
time when that sign is rising should be preferred for success, 
in the native’s house for the following :— 

(a) feeding of Brahmins ; (b) performance of Mantra, 
Japa and Anushtana ( aia); (c) establishment of safe 
deposit vault for keeping valuables like gold, etc.; (d) 
visit to preceptor, Brahmins and ministers, etc., and (e) 
emergence from the house on a journey. 


Harweaneraegian aa Ate: Fed TATA | 
Tiknearmeaas Tray Te a eT 19 1 


sl. 4-10 ASHTAKAVARGA 113 


Sloka 7 — One desirous of having a child should impreg- 
nate, when the rasi, representing the bhava which in Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga contains the maximum number of bindus is 
rising (and is occupied or aspected by Jupiter). 

The location of cattle, wealth and vehicles in one’s 

house should be in the direction indicated by the aforesaid 
rast for their increase and prosperity. 
Notes: Nishckadhyaya says that the rising sign or the Moon 
should be aspected by Jupiter or other benefics (particularly by 
the former as he is the Santanakaraka) for conception to take 
place. 


sfreniagh-eraaana 
at Zatasaafa Raa | 
qalarrgahtgeraeasy 
mraageatrasani: ang tt < tt 


Sloka 8 —If the Sun occupies a bhava which in Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga contains the least number of bindus at the 
time of birth, a person is very unlucky and all his efforts 
for improvement (of welfare) will end in failure. When 
Jupiter, associated with 5 or more bindus, occupies the 
6th, 8th or 12th bhava, the person born will be long-lived, 
wealthy and victorious over enemies. 


walasaa Raye Taha 

Seghaa a TEtay TI 
faerie fgernt 

Ara: ataaTa edaia: VAT! S 


Sloka 9—When Jupiter is in exaltation or in his own house 
in a Kendra or in the 9th house ; or is in any other rasi 
which is not his debilitation or inimical house and is not in 
combust ; and is associated with 8 bindus, the person born 
becomes a king by his own prowess and fame. 


BAT HATAFSAAATRATPTAN ATUTILT: | 
patagoaraaagareraaieao tat: i 2° | 


Hq. ¢ 


114 STEHT: CHAP. X 


Sloka 10— When persons having this Yoga of Jupiter, 
described in the previous verse, are born in Brahmin caste, 
they become equal to kings by virtue of their charities and 
good acts and are admired by all for their outstanding intel- 
ligence, valour and other good virtues. 


Notes: Under the similar circumstances a Vaishya becomes a 
multi-millionaire and a Sudra becomes either an Army Officer or a 
nobleman (Devakeralam). 


aacaaral ae (aa?) wend Hy agehragTaea: | 
qzlea aeatreaa: aqaliat serileara: 1 22 


Sloka 11— When Jupiter associated with 7 bimdus and 
with the Yoga referred to in Verse No. 9 above is in con- 
junction with the Moon, persons born will have women, 
wealth and sons in plenty ; with 6 bindus they will be 
having much wealth and many vehicles ; and with 5 bindus 
they will have victory and be of good conduct. 


apineRata: Vy ant waraea sa 

—srarearreareage aaa sarsata | 

fieratth anadeaaaa: ae: GaeaHat 

FRUIT FY THOT salfesarateras 1 2 UI 

Sloka 12 — Matters relating to children should be consi- 
dered from the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter. Find the house 
where the lord of the 5th from Jupiter is situated. The 
person will have as many children as there are bindus in 
that house after the reductions. The characteristics of the 
children will be according to the nature of the donors of 
these bindus. The appearance, stature, etc., will be accord- 
ing to the verse “ galgaeeR? erc.. (Brihat-jataka, 
Chapter II, verse 8) and character and nature according to 
verse “ darésirat” etc. (Brihat-jataka, Chapter II, verse 
7). Out of these children those represented by the power- 
ful planets will prove very beneficial to the native. 


Notes: In this and the following verses wherever the question of 
the reduction comes, the order of donorship given under verse 15, 


sl. 11-14 ASHTAKAVARGA 115 


Chapter II, should be followed to ascertain the donors of the 
remaining bindus. 

In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter is in the 5th bhava (Tula). 
The Sth sign from Jupiter is Kumbha and its lord is Saturn. 
Saturn is in sign Makara and there are two bindus in Jupiter’s 
Ashtakavarga in that sign. The order of the donors is Mars, 
Jupiter, the Sun, Venus, the Moon, Saturn, Mercury and the Lagna. 
The 2 bindus referred to above are donated by Jupiter and Mercury. 
After the reductions there remains no bindu. 

When there are no bindus after the reductions consideration 
as regards children should be made by other methods. 


qari faaeraaterar Reg: gary 
Beary aiaerrazeran aitareT ae | 
araraasetuaraarsrea Greed gat 
Aarnwre: at seat Kalam: Fa tl 23 UI 


Sloka 13 — As explained in the preceding verse the number 
of children should be reckoned as follows:— 

The planet whose bindu remains (after the reductions) 
if retrograde or in exaltation represents three children ; if 
in his own house, own Navamsa, Drekana or in Vargottama 
Navamsa represents two children ; if in debilitation or 
inimical house, the children represented by him will die 
(at an early age). 

Male planets and planets in odd signs bestow sons 
while female planets and planets in even signs daughters. 


aft gerne SATA TIAA | 
MPT: Gade we AP aaTIAT I 2 HI 


Sloka 14 — Just as the number of issues is considered from 
the house occupied by the lord of the 5th house from Jupi- 
ter, the same should be done from the positions (1) of 
the lord of the 9th from Jupiter ; (2) of the lord of the 
5th from the Lagna and (3) of the lord of the 5th from 
the Moon. The numbers of bindus after the reductions in 
the houses where these three planets are situated represent 
the number of issues, subject to the conditions mentioned 
in the preceding verse. 


ce 


116 ART: CHAP. X 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the lord of the 9th house 
from Jupter, Mercury is in sign Kanya. The number of bindus 
in Kanya is 4 and after the reductions there remain 2 biwdus (con- 
tributed by Mercury and the Lagna). Mercury being in an even 
sign and also in his exaltation sign, contributes three daughters. 
Venus being in an odd sign and in her own housc contributes 
two sons. 


The Icrd of the 5th house from the Lagna, Venus is in sign 
Tula. There are 4 binds before the reductions in that sign but 
there is no bindu after the reductions. The lord of the 5th house 
from the Moon is Saturn. The calculations are the samc as done 
previously (verse 12). 


ERTS MST ATA A | 
qaaaAaa eI TATA 24 II 


Sloka 15—The method (of finding the number of children) 
explained in the three preceding verses is according to the 
Brihat-jataka commentary Chandrika. Another school of 
thought accepted by many astrologers is as follows. 


fatness GUA aad 

Terni Aaa sttens qea daa | 
TATA Wald Tat Hat a Ty 

Area Garareay Fereleaa: Ha: 1) 2S 


Sloka 16-— After the bindus in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga 
have been correctly placed, find out the bimdus that are 
contained in the 5th house reckoned from Jupiter. Out of 
these omit those bivdus contributed by planets which are 
posited (1) in inimical houses (2) eclipsed and (3) in debi- 
lication. The remainder will signify the number of children 
the native will have, their number being proportionately 
increased by suitable multiplications in respect of planets in 
exaltation, Swakshetra, etc., and their sex being determined 
by the male and female planets contributing those bindus. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the number of bindus in the 
5th house from Jupiter is 5 contributed by Mars, Vers, Mercury, 
the Moon and the Lagna. Out of these, the bizdus of Mercury 


sl, 15-17 ASHTAKAVARGA 117 


and the Lagna (lord Mercury) are eliminated as Mercury is 
eclipsed by the Sun. 


aAeATEa and sarapt — 
aagdanadiat ga gage seals: | 
Siva Tena Fa ce: qaafatfaeae II 


GIA >— 
qetragaesta aaa aa Tez | 
MANA MFA Waa Fal: Var: | 
IGA i— 
TRedngaena ae eafeaget sar | 
eaaqorra ar We earq RIT aar | 
ued a ata af: eaeahrarady 
MASAMI Waa: FEA Aa: | 
WAN PAM UWaaAIA FIM: II 


Hires aaa Faas tia eafigateaterTaTy 
Rersater aaah aracerarhth aafa aareaarat a ies 


Sloka 17 — Find the number of bimdus in the 5th house 
from Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga. Out of these, exclude the 
following bindus :-— 
(1) that contributed by Jupiter’s enemy ; 
(2) that of the enemy of the Jord of the Sth from 
Jupiter ; 
(3) that of a planet in combust ; 
(4) that of a planet in an inimical house ; 
(5) that of a planet in his debilitation house ; 
(6) that of a planet who is the lord of the debilitation 
sign of Jupiter’s 5th house lord ; and 
(7) that of Saturn who is the lord of Jupiter’s debili- 
tation sign. 
The number of children is represented by the remain- 
ing bindus. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope, out of the 5 bimdus in the 
5th house from Jupiter those contributed by Mercury (enemy) 
and Mars (lord of debilitation of Saturn) will be eliminated. 


118 weet: cua. X 


shares fate Bara rena arate cents aftg | 
aera AqratPrareaterarts Rrerzae: ee: HRCI 


Sloka 18—In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga after the reductions 
and omitting the bzzdus in houses occupied by malefics, find 
the sum of the remaining bindus. This will be the number 
of children. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the total number of bindus 
after the reductions is 9 (Shodhyavashishta). Out of these the 
house occupied by the Sun contains 2 biadus which are to be elimi- 
nated thereby leaving 7, representing 7 children. 


Tera J Thaker 3 | 

HRMS TAT VTA: BIA It 28 It 
Sloka 19 —In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga after the reductions 
and omitting the bizdus in houses owned by malefics, find 
the total number of bimdus. This will be the number of 
children. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope there are 9 bindus after both 
the reductions. Out of this tocal take away 2 which are the bindus 
in the houses owned by malefics leaving thereby 7, representing 
7 children. 


THATS AAMT TT | 

THAIHA JETS: TAMA Ml Re I 
Sloka 20 — The number of children will be equal to the 
number of bindus in the 5th house from the Dwadasamsa 
sign of either the Lagna, the Moon or Jupiter. In choosing 
the most powerful of the above three, the following 
methods should be adopted :— 


(1) the strongest out of the Lagna, the Moon or 
Jupiter ; 

(2) the strongest Dwadasamsa rasé of the above three ; 

(3) the strongest 5th house of the above three (Dwa- 
dasamsa rasis) ; and 

(4) the Sth house which has more bindus contributed 
by powerful planets. 


sl, 18-24 ASHTAKAVARGA 119 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the Lagna is the strongest. Its 
Dwadasamsa rasi is Kataka and the 5th house from that is Vris- 
chika. There are 6 bindus in that house in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga. 


SrsgTae Te: eAq aiovaalas | 
TaEKay Tata TALI Ve UI 
Fear: & Aa Ter waarshs ar | 
aATED AT TAT GAT TATA tt RU 


Slokas 21, 22 —If there are malefics in the 12th, 2nd and 
5th houses, the number of issues is less. The issues may be 
equal to the number of bimdus in the 5th house from the 
Lagna in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga. 

When Jupiter is in the 5th house, the number of issues 
is less, but, if he is associated with or aspected by the lord 
of the 5th, many issues may be predicted. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter is in the 5th house 
from the Lagna (in bhava) and Venus the lord of the 5th also 
is posited there. 


WeAly Gael Aa neq 
TMATAT T VULITS? WUT 2 Ut 


GEN TAIT T TATA Fa | 
HANIA TATATATLT HET Ut VW Al 


Slokas 23, 24— In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga when there are 
3 bindus each in the 5th house from the Lagna and also 
from Jupiter, there will be very few children, so says Deva- 
Shala. 


The number of children may be declared equal to the 
number of Navamsas passea aaaalat) in the 5th house 
from the Lagna ; or by the lord of the Sth house from the 
Lagna ; or by the lord of the 5th house from Jupiter. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope (a) the 5th house is Tula 
and the Navamsa also is Tula, i.e., one Navamsa ; (b) Venus the 
lord of 5th has passed 4 Navamsas ; and (c) Saturn lord of 5th 
from Jupiter has passed 4 Navamsas. 


120 SRA: cuap, X 


Haida gra gaahaka cag wi ei 
rdaiaed Baa ayeahatt watt Paar | 
AT TMA TAI Vast 
: Lal 
HUA HAA TRATRSAgAT AA TAA: (184 
Sloka 25 — A person will have to adopt a child when 
the lord of the 5th house is in the house of Saturn in 
Navamsa and is in conjunction with Mercury and Saturn. 
When the lord of the 5th house is in Saturn’s house in 


Navamsa and, Jupiter and Venus are in their own houses, 
a natural son is born only after adoption. 


In the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter when the 5th house 
from him contains more bindus contributed by planets 
occupying the houses of Saturn, either in rast or Navamsa, 
a child has to be adopted. 


magaeasraraal aTaeteeTaTT: 
Gad qarzay sahara: | 
MINTTAT TIAA TT PSEA 
pmecguitaar aatafasttawaitsa: 112 I 
aa ZIT 8 BZ YM eRaranizaat 
mat 7 fafaeiaa anmaecan | 
aia TMA GaseaTT 
Maes TA 1 Ww I 
wag AVAAST AG si a TANT aaa: | 
BAS geri afew ean Try STIG a PAT UI Re 


Slokas 26-28 — (A) When (1) the lord of the Lagna, (2) 
the lord of the Moon’s Lagna, (3) the lord of the 5th 
house, (4) the lord of the 7th house and (5) Jupiter, are 
weak ; 

(B) when the above five planets along with Yama- 
kantaka (37g of Jupiter) are situated in the 6th, 8th or 
12th house ; 


sl. 25-28 ASHTAKAVARGA 121 


(C) when the 5th house is occupied or aspected by 
malefics ; 


(D) when there are eunuch ( gla) Yogas such as 
aay etc, (Brihat-jataka, Chap. IV, verse 13); 


(E) when the Santana Tithi (daafafz) happens to fall 
between the 8th day of the dark half and the new Moon ; 
and 


(F) when there are few bindus in the 5th house from 
Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga. 


In all the above cases it is difficult to have natural 
children, even after propitiatory rites are performed. 
Adoption also is not possible. 


The auspicious conditions necessary for begetting 
children are :— 


(1) when the five planets referred to above are power- 
ful ; 


(2) when these five planets and Yamakantaka are in 
Kendras, Trikonas or in the 11th house ; 


(3) when the 5th house is occupied or aspected by 
benefics ; 


(4) when there is the Yoga (combination) for having 
children ; 


(5) when there are many bindus in the 5th house from 
Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga ; and 


(6) the Santana Tithi falls in the bright half of the 
Moon. 


All these are auspicious for one to be blessed with 

children. If there is a mixture of good and bad Yogas, 
then one may have children after performing the necessary 
propitiatory rites. 
Notes: The position of Yamakantaka during day time on week 
days beginning with Sunday is at the end of 18, 14, 10, 6, 2, 26 
and 22 Ghatikas, for a day of 30 Ghatis duration and during 
the night, at the end of 2, 26, 22, 18, 14, 10 and 6 Ghatis. The 
tising sign should: be calculated for the same latitude as is done 
for the Lagna. 


122 apna: CHAP. X 


aaa axa gre 
——araraafaarenintanpaia thea: | 


MIATA: ATTA THAN SAT: 

CANTATAS: TATA TSA 23 UI 
TAMARA TAT TAY 

an: waa as aa Gaaniteny | 
ateay aff 1 ager Zaardaa 

ary deaadaararad daatahAgZa ti Fo AI 


Slokas 29, 30— When (1) the 5th house is aspected by 
malefics alone ; 

(2) the 5th house contains less than 25 bindus in the 
Samudayashtakavarga ; 

(3) the Sth house falls in an even sign (like 
Vrishabha, Kataka, Kanya, etc.,) and 

(4) at the time of birth the Moon occupies an even 
sign ; there is no possibility of getting any issue for the 
native. 

Of the four defects mentioned above, if there is one 
defect, the reason for no issues, is some uterine ailment 
to the woman ; if there are two defects, it is due to affic- 
tions by a malefic deity ; if three, it is due to both the 
above causes. The necessary propitiatory rites should be 
performed for the respective defects in order to get an 
issue. If all the four defects are found in a horoscope, 
one will have no issue at all even after performing pro- 
pitiatory rites. 


FAN: SAMA AA SAT aT | 
ANA TIAA SMeAaaraAsAAT F Bq U2? 


Sloka 31 — H-thetord-of-the-Sth bhava is situated very 
near (1) the 5th bhava or (2) the bhava occupied 
by the lord of the Lagna, jthe person will have issue in 
the early part of his married life. In other circumstances 
the issue will be at an advanced age. 


sl. 29-33 ASHTAKAVARGA 123 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Venus, the lord of the 5th 
house, is there itself and is at the same time in the 2nd house from 
Mercury (the lord of the Lagna). 


Reatad garda waa weaashay | 
PAN TAY aT GaTeH azAT 1 BR A 


Sloka 32 — When the lord of the 5th bhava occupies (1) 
a Kendra, (2) a Panaphara or (3) an Apoklima house, one 
will have an issue at an early, middle or later part of 
married life respectively. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Venus, the lord of the 5th 
bbava, is in a Panaphara house. 


TMA aeTHTS aca Tt- 
aaa 3 car Borate 3 was | 
Thi wena a Rae sha nag Gre: 
qaaiss Afecat fanagars tarefs 1 3311 


Sloka 33 — The transic of Jupiter through rasis having 
more bindus in his Ashtakavarga, indicates birth of children. 
The rasis are to be determined as follows :— 
1. The rasi occupied by the lord of the 5th bhava from 
the Lagna ; 
2. the Navamsa rasi of the above lord ; 
3. the rast occupied by the lord of the 5th from the 
Moon ; 
4. the Navamsa rast of the above lord (item 3) ; 
5. the rast occupied by the lord of the 5th from 
Jupiter ; 
6. the Navamsa rast of this lord (item 5) ; 
7. the rast occupied by Gulika ; 
8. the Navamsa rasi of Gulika ; 
and the 5th and 9th rasis from all the above eight rasis. 
Notes: The rising times of Gulika from Sunday onwards are 
26, 22, 18, 14, 10, 6 and 2 Ghatikas respectively after sunrise 
during the day and 10, 6, 2, 26, 22, 18 and 14 Ghatikas res- 
pectively after sunset during night of duration of a day or night 


124 TERA: cHap. X 


of 30 Ghatikas each and proportionately increase or decrease 
according to the variation in day (1 Ghatika = 24 minutes ; 30 
Ghatikas = 12 hours). Degrees of Gulika should be found as 
for the Lagna. 


aa azofentbrd vate 4 aenfeana- 
TANTS TOI WITT | 

area Reorkalaneat zat Aeatas- 
edad Ream Aaonad aeararcateag tl 28 1 


Sloka 34—Find out the rising sign and the position of 
Gulika with its trines at the time of query. Whenever 
the Sun, the Moon or Jupiter whichever has the maximum 
number of bivdus in their respective Ashtakavargas transits 
the above Gulika rasi or its trines, birth of a child takes 
place. In addition, birth of a child may happen when 
Jupiter transits the horary Lagna, its Navamsa rasi or its 
trines, which contains the maximum number of bindus in 
Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga (in the natal chart). 


frmgaritated Gar TayTTTVTAS | 
fre caret aazeea ganea Rasa 1341! 


Sleka 35 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Jupiter by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 5th house 
from Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga, divide the product by 
27 and find the remainder. Find out the asterism counted 
from Aswini. When Jupiter, passes through that asterism, 
a child will be born. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Shodhyapinda of Jupiter 96 
X 5 (bindus in the:5th house from Jupiter before the reductions) 
= 480 divided by 27 leaves remainder 21, i.e, Uttarashadha. 


Aled AaEd Tegahers 
Reshransits aera aT: | 
Tadad FAA Tense 
satgashnre easy 1 3S I 


sl. 34-38 ASHTAKAVARGA 125 


Sloka 36— Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Jupiter by 7, 
divide the product by 27 and count the remainder from 
Aswini ; when Jupiter transits that asterism, a child is 
born. Again, if the Navamsa in which Jupiter stands is 
stronger than the rasi occupied by him, the remainder 
should be counted from Dhanishta to find the asterism for 
Jupiter’s transit. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter’s Shodhyapinda 96 
xX 7 = 672; divided by 27 leaves remainder 24. Jupiter is in 
Kanya but in Navamsa he is in Vrishabha. He is therefore 
stronger in rasi, than in Navamsa. The 24th asterism from 
Aswini, viz., Shatatara should be taken. 


aad freagragatres 
WHEISHTATPTNSAA: | 
aerergTals Far Fay 
AVAST GAMA TITATTT UR UI 
Sloka 37— Multiply the Shuddhapinda of Jupiter by 4 
and divide the product by 12. When the Sun passes 
through the rasi represented by the remainder counted from 
Mesha, a son will be born. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter’s Shodhyapinda 96 
x 4 = 384; divided by 12 leaves remainder 0, i.e., 12, the Mcena 
house. When the Sun passes through this house, birth of a sen 
may be predicted. 


THEd WAIST TIA Ah 

frees Ter ToT TETRTTA | 
THR TIA TH TEI 

afery WATE AATITAA I 3 1 


Sloka 38— Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Jupiter by 7 
and divide the product by 27. The remainder should be 
counted from the asterism occupied by Jupiter. When 
Jupiter passes through that asterism, a son is born. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter’s Shodhyapinda 96 
7 = 672; divided by 27 leaves remainder 24. Reckoned from 


126 arena: cHaP. X 


Jupiter’s asterism Hasta, the 24th is Aslesha which when transitted 
by Jupiter, birth of a child takes place. 


Jalrs Tear aafraisnag Ha: | 
ane amass sates aaa 11 32 1 


Sloka 39— Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Jupiter by 9, 
divide the product by 12 and find the remainder. This, 
counted from Mesha house is the rising sign (Ascendant) 
of the son to be born. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter’s Shodhyapinda 96 
X 9 = 864 ; divided by 12 leaves remainder 0, i.e., 12. Reckoned 
from the Mesha house, the 12th is the Meena house which will 
be the rising sign of the new born son of the native. 


aiaent argaa deteneate- 
eared Aq aed Geer F AeHlaAaT Teale: | 
THRATAAITTATTLTA TA atta — 
araarareerass BRANT | vo 
Sloka 40—Find in which planet’s Kakshya Jupiter is 
posited in the husband’s horoscope. If this planet contri- 
butes a bindu in the 5th house from Jupiter in the wife's 
horoscope, a son will be born when Jupiter transits the 
said house. Also, from the husband’s horoscope find out 
the Navamsa of the planet in whose Kakshya Jupiter is 
situated. A son will be born when :— 
1. the Sun transits the above Navamsa sign or its 
trines in the husband’s horoscope ; 
2. the Moon transits the rast occupied by Mandi in 
the wife’s horoscope ; and 
3. the rising sign is a Navamsa rasé or its trines of 
Gulika in the wife’s horoscope. 


SEIU CHUCE VOID IE EAC 
TORT TAI sea AAAS TH | 
frereatgss taraaraeea sarc 
Rewer Mage Assay aa ti v2 Ut 


sl. 39-424 ASHTAKAVARGA 127 


Sloka 41— Note the bhava occupied by the lord of the 
Sth house from Jupiter. In that bhava find out which 
planet’s Kakshya is occupied by this lord ; when Jupiter 
transits the house occupied by the above Kakshya lord, 
a son will be born. This is a very great secret. 

In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga add up all the remaining 

bindus after the reductions and multiply this by the number 
of bindus remaining after the reductions in the 5th house 
from Jupiter and divide the product by 12. The remainder 
counted from the Mesha house shows the solar month for 
birth of a child. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope (1) Saturn, the lord of the 
5th house from Jupiter is in Makara, (i.e., 8th house) in the Lagna’s 
Kakshya (Mercury). Mercury occupies Kanya. Jupiter’s transit 
over Kanya indicates birth of a son. 

(2) Jupicer’s Shodhyavashishta is 9. There is 1 bindu in 
the 5th house from Jupiter after the reductions. Therefore, 
9 X 1 = 9; divided by 12 leaves remainder 9. Counted from 
Mesha it gives the solar month Dhanus. 


TOOT ATA AA SAAT ATH erga 
wer gafenfiaaeaa 3: Gazal Fa: | 
Tat Bq Asay aa Haieaaaaa- 
ee TAN Gas wT HaltswT 122 U1 


Sloka 42 — Find out the planet which is capable of giving 
a child, by using any one of the following three methods:— 
(1) by contribution of a bindu in the 5th house from 
Jupiter in the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter ; 
(2) by the favourable position of the child giving 
planet in the natal chart; 
(3) by the formation of the Yoga (aaraaim) to have a 
child. 
When the Moon transits the stronger of either the rast 
or Navamsa of any of the above or its trines, birth of a 
child may take place. 


aint stagaadgat safeaar’: gat: 
ded wird: Toga Gat qe: Ta | 


128 TERT: cHaP. X 


ad aad eeay azarae 

Ga: Gear ghar aaa: Gat a Pca: HATA 83 II 
Sloka 43 —In the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter in a woman’s 
horoscope, the number of daughters will be equal to the 
sum of bindus in the 5th house from (1) the Lagna, (2) 
the Moon or (3) Jupiter ; and, the number of sons will 
be equal to the sum of bindus in the 9th house from the 
Lagna, the Moon or Jupiter. 

In the case of a male's horoscope the 5th house re- 
presents sons and the 9th house daughters. 


aIgkrsAaHaea Teaghtesquaiaat | 
aes Tas Tae aazarir ty ve Ul 

Sloka 44—In a woman's horoscope, the Shuddha- 
pinda of Jupiter should be multiplied by the bizdus in the 
9th house. The number of sons should be _ consi- 
dered from the biz7duzs in the 9th house and their welfare, 
characteristics, etc., from the planets donating them. 

Daughters’ birth, their number, characteristics, wel- 
fare, etc., should be considered from the bindus in the 
5th house and the planets that contribute them. 


TMTMTARA aaqaaasitaa aaa: 
a MN Telaaaaaas Prato Tq | 
aa TNS AWEAAT- 
BRITT: HT ATA AT AMTAT TAT UBL 


Sloka 45 —In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga find out the number 
of bimdus in the 5th house from Jupiter, to ascertain 
number of issues. Out of these eliminate the bindus con- 
tributed by planets in debilitation, in imimical houses or 
inimical to Jupiter, etc. After eliminating thus, there may 
remain a certain number of bindus. ‘This will be the 
number of children. Find the positions in the Zodiac of 
the donors of these bindus. Determine whether the rasé 
or the Navamsa rasi of the donor is strong and take into 
account the stronger of the two. The birth of a child 
may be expected when the Moon transits :— 


sl. 43-45 ASHTAKAVARGA 129 


1. that rasi, if the planet is in the first Drekana ; 
2. the fifth rasi, if the planet is in the second Drekana ; 
3. the ninth rasi, if the planet is in the third Drekana. 


To determine the exact Nakshatra and the Ghatikas 
piassed, etc., when the child is to be born, the following 
calculations are to be made. When the planet is in the 
first Drekana, take into consideration only the degrees and 
minutes and not the sign. Convert them into minutes. 
Multiply these minutes by 135 (m@#) and divide the pro- 
duct by 1800 (aga7). Take the quotient. Eliminate one 
Pada (quarter) of the Nakshatra for each unit of 5 of 
the quotient. When the remainder is less than 5, multi- 
ply it by 3 to get the Ghatikas past in that Pada. 

If the planet is in the second Drekana, subtract the 

sign and 10" and if the third Drekana, subtract the sign 
and 20° and take the remainder. Repeat the above opera- 
tion. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope it is found from Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga that Mars is one of the donors of the bindus. His 
position is 4* — 7° — 1’ and therefore, is in the 1st Drekana of Simha 
and is in Mithuna Navamsa. He is stronger in rasi. Therefore, 
when the Moon transits Simha rasi, birth of a child may be 
expected. To find the actual Nakshatra and the time of birth 
(mad) the following calculations are to be made :— 


4-7-1! 
44-0 - 0’ 
0° — 7° — 1/comverted into minutes = 421. 
421 X 135 _ 56835 
1800 1800 
For 30 (6 units of 5) the whole of Magha and 2 quarters 
of Purvaphalguni would have elapsed. 
For the remainder, i.e. 1.575 x 3 = 4.725 Ghatikas in the 
3rd quarter of Purvaphalguni. 
.”. Total time elapsed in Ghatis in Purvaphalguni is 2 X 15 
+ 4.725 = 34.725. 
= 34 Ghatis 434 Palas in Purvaphalguni in Simha. 


A 


= 31-575 quotient. 


130 wea: cuap. X 
If the last quarter of the verse is taken as (text variation) :— 


“qatar frasa aaahecar ” 


This means that the product obtained by multiplication may 
be divided by 600 (instead of 1800). In each case we get Ghatis 
elapsed from the commencement of the rast and for every 60 
Ghatis 1 Nakshatra should be counted. 


421 X 185 _ 56835 

600 — 600 
That is GO + 34 Ghatis 43} Palas, 

ic., 1 Nakshatra + 34 Ghatis 43} Palas, in the 2nd 
Nakshatra (Purvaphalguni) in Simha. 


CATETTI FTAHITTT: | 
TEOMA FAT TA TANT BE 


Sloka 46 —One learned in astrology should find out the 
number of children according to these various methods 
and predict children definitely, if other conditions are 
satisfied. 

Devakeralam and other works :— 


1. Jupiter associated with 1 to 3 bindus will not do 
much gcod to the bhava occupied by him. 


2. If the conception takes place when the Sun is 
transitting a house containing the maximum 
number of bindus in Jupiter's Ashtakavarga, the 
issue begotten will be a virtuous son. 


3. 1f the Moon associated with 1 to 3 bindus is in the 
6th or 8th house from Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga, 
the person will always be in debts even though 
born with a Rajayoga. 

4. If Jupiter, in any sign having exalred Navamsa, is 
associated with 5 or more bindus, the person is 
blessed with plenty of wealth, lands, etc. ; but if 
the Moon is also in the 6th or 8th from Jupiter 
associated with 1 te 3 bindus, he will be poor and 
unlucky. In the above case, if the Moon associa- 
ted with more than 3 bindus is in a Kendra (Kesari 


= 94-725 Ghatis. 


sl. 46 


10. 


11. 


12. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 131 


Yoga) or Trikona to Jupiter, the person will have 
plenty of wealth, land and other comforts. 


. If Jupiter with 1 to 3 bindus is in his own house 


and in a Kendra or Trikona, the person will sufter 
great sorrow through loss of children and the like. 


. In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga, when the lord of the 


house occupied by Jupiter is exalted and associated 
with 5 or more hindus, the person will be a king 
of kings. 


. Jupiter having less than 3 bindus and having 


Navamsa in debilitation (Makara) and at the same 
time Saturn is in the 2nd house from the Lagna, 
the native will be a dullard. 


. (A) Venus in Jupiter’s Kendra and at the same 


time Jupiter in the Lagna Kendra ; (B) Venus and 
Jupiter in opposition or in conjunction, make the 
person a king or equal to a king, provided Jupiter 
is associated with 4 or more bindus. 


. When the Lagna is occupied by its own lord who 


is weak in strength and is associated with 1 to 3 
bindus in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga and Jupiter is in 
the 6th or 8th therefrom, the person is very unlucky 
and slow-witted. 


When the lord of the 8th house is in the 5th house 
and vice versa, and both the lords have no aspect 
or connection with Jupiter, the person will suffer 
persecution at the hands of his children and grand- 
children. 


The person will lose as many children as there are 
bindus in the 3rd or 5th house from Jupiter, if 
he is posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th house from the 
Lagna. 

Jupiter in Dhanus or Meena and not in combust, 
with more than 5 bindus and having Vargas of 
male planets and associated with or aspected by a 
benefic, if a conception takes place when this sign 


132 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


c 


ACHAT: CHAP. X 


is rising, a virtuous and illustrious son will be 
born. 


When the lord of the house occupied by ihe lord 
of the 5th house is in conjuncticn with or aspected 
by Jupiter, and that lord is associated with more than 
4 bindus in Jupiter's Ashtakavarga, a son will be 
born who will ennoble the family prestige. If, in 
the above Yoga, the same lord is in debilitation 
with 1 to 3 bindus, the son will be treacherous to 
his father. 


If the lord of the 5th house has malefic connection, 
and Jupiter associated with 3 bixdus is hermmed in 
between malefics (qm#dft) a son who is evil-minded 
and a scourge to the family, will be born. 


When Saturn passes through the house or its 
trines which in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga has the least 
number of bindus, the person may meet with afflic- 
tions provided that house is unaspected by Jupiter 
at birth. 


The period of the Sun’s transit through houses 
having the least number of bindus in Jupiter’s 
Ashtakavarga is not good for auspicious cere- 
monies. 

The lords of the 9th and 10th houses and Jupiter, 
if each of them is associated' with 8 bindus in their 
respective Ashtakavargas, and the lords of the 
houses occupied by them are powerful, the person 
born will be exceptionally lucky and blessed with 
everything. 

If the lord of the lagna is in the 2nd house or in 
the 9th house, and Jupiter in a Kendra (from the 
Lagna) with 5 bindus, the father of the native will 
be luckier than himself. 

When the lord of the 9th house and Jupiter are 
in Kendras, or occupy their own houses, or their 
exaltation houses and both are associated with 
more than 5 bindus each, in Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga, 
the person becomes a King or dispenser of justice. 


‘ASHTAKAVARGA 133 


20. In Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga after the reductions and 


Notes 


omitting the hindus contributed by malefics, find 
the sum of the bimdus that remain. This will re- 
present the number of children of the native. 


: This is another method of finding the number of 


children. In the Standard Horoscope out of the total of 9 bindus 


(after 


the reductions) 2 are contributed by malefics. Eliminating 


these 2 bindus, the remaining 7 bindus represent the number of 
children. 


21. When malefics are in the 12th, 8th and Sth houses 


22. 


Notes 


" 


from Jupiter, the loss of wealth and children will 
occur. 

When the Sth house is occupied or aspected by (1) 
the lord of the Lagna, (2) the lord of the house 
occupied by Jupiter, or (3) the lord of the 5th 
house itself, the native will have many children. 
: To find the time of death or afflictions to the children :— 


. Im the Standard Horoscope Jupiter’s Shodhyapinda 96 < 5 


(bindus in the 5th house from him before the reductions) 
= 480 ; divided by 27 leaves remainder 21. Counted from 
Aswini this gives Uttarashadha when Saturn transits it 
or its trines the said effects may take place. 

To find Jupiter’s position :-— 

96 X 4 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter before the 


reductions) = 384; divided by 27 leaves remainder 6 
which gives Ardra and its trimes for Jupiter’s transit. 


. To find the Sun’s position :— 


96 X 5 (bindus in the 7th house from the Sun in Jupiter’s 


: Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 480; divided by 


27 leaves remainder 21 which gives Uttarashadha for the 
Sun’s transit. 


CHAPTER XI 
ASHTAKAVARGA OF VENUS 


TRAM ASNT AA ATTA TATA 
waaaagen: Prayer: TTT: | 
arerey TANITA TATA aha 
VIE: SHIT Talat Fra Ue Ut 
Sloka 1— When Venus in her Ashtakavarga transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows :— 


8 bindus one gets all enjoyments, good dress, women, 
sweet-smelling flowers, varieties of eatables 
and drinks, etc. ; 

7 ornaments and precious stones ; 

6 meeting a beloved wife ; 

5 ” contact with friends ; 

4 mixed effects (good and bad) ; 

3 enmity with neighbours and village (town) 

people, tastelessness ; 


2 ai degradation, sickness ; 

1 bindu fear from diseases through phlegm, water or 
poison ; 

Oo ” all kinds of calamities. 


Venus’ Ashtakavarga 


he, 


q wed. > eqer fen: 


sl. 1-44 ASHTAKAVARGA 135 


atl Tar sarata at UsTArATAats 
Haan TIGA AAT TT se | 
abe aateT AaRe TENT TAAL 
aattent waafa ad deraeafaatey 112 11 


Sloka 2 — When Venus transits a Kakshya having a bindu 
in her Ashtakavarga, one’s status and respect in Government 
service is enhanced and he gets a daughter, enjoys bodily 
comforts and longevity, takes active part in sports, acquires 
extensive knowledge, attains success in his aim, acquires 
wealth ; happiness and general welfare are on the increase. 


frg: we naa &@ Raaarararn 
sat Het HeTMTS BHAT HET 2 | 
ee ° 
qtaeta realy aa cae aTshaT 
ant ag Heals AAT TABI TATA AL A 
Sloka 3 — While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu, 
she (Venus) causes troubles, loss of wealth through enemies, 
affliction to wife, extreme quarrels, loss of landed property, 
misery, aberration of mind, frequent expenses, fall from 
a horse or obstacles during journeys (throughout the period) 
to the people. 


TY AIA AAT WIG: Ataeat Iq 

Tae TANT Tas Hares aT | 
diarred Rarenot area aq 

SE CEO CRC UME IC ICGCCC. MEET 


Sloka 4— When Venus passes through a bhava containing 
the highest number of bindus, one should acquire bed and 
other necessaries pertaining to the bed chamber. Learning 
of music, performance of marriages, acts leading to sexual 
enjoyments should be commenced during that time for 
prosperity ; further, that would be the best period to 
purchase apparels of silk and the like. 


2 gaeenis agneerh Rat aa: 
mPa Brag Tora INA TW | 


136 AERA: CHAP. XI 


al TA APat a Ta Wea TH 
Se: TAT: TenbrereTeat FT WT: We A 


Sloka 5—In the Ashtakavarga of Venus, find out the 
cardinal direction according to Sthirachakra represented by 
the maximum number of bindus, before and after the 
reductions. Marriage in that direction brings prosperity. 
To have the bedroom in the direction denoted by the rasé 
(bhava) containing the maximum number of bindus before 
the reductions, in one’s own house, is good for conjugal 
happiness ; it is good to see a minister and to get the 
marriage ceremony performed in that direction also. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Kataka and Simha both 
contain 6 bindus each. The direction represented is the South. 
After the reductions Kataka~ contains 5 bindus which also 
represents the South. 


TIA — 

wena 3 faeces | 

Ranta HT sareafiaars Il 

ag ay ve aqyaa fe 7a Z| 

af aes Ra aed ees | 

CAAT — 

grea dae WAR AZ UR | 

reat aeqgaraenrern= gat II 

aaa Ranta Aaa 
aaaaag arraeat Rreraen: fea: | 

aaistaatararagaale: aa: 
dems aeaeshias saad wer ku 


Sloka 6 — The number of wives will be according to the 
number of bindus that remain after the reductions in the 
following houses :—- 


1, the house occupied by the lord of the 7th from 
Venus ; 


2. the house occupied by the lord of the 9th from 
Venus ; 


sl, 5-7 ASHTAKAVARGA 137 


3, the house occupied by the lord of the 9th from the 
Moon ; 
4, the house occupied by the lord of the 9th from the 
Lagna ; 
5. the exaltation rast of the lord of the 7th from the 
Lagna ; 
and 6. the debilitation rasi of the lord of the 7th from the 
Lagna. 


Out of these six, that which gives the maximum number 
should be taken when the lord of the 7th house from the 
Lagna is powerful and well-placed; the minimum number 
when the 7th lord is weak. 


AUR 

wag Tedealsar faz: | 
saan aay zrey fat aur tl 
trata asadRaniaakara t 
ariuatad @f anrrads fag: | 
aaa at Basha alee: 
aaa aT waar wea daaq |! 
wren wea Fale afraaar: | 
SHISTALIT ASAT WeAeAAA || 
aa: aarrad a aaa shears | 
aaaeian at aardardtsts a 
eafaaiana aft aned aKeAOTT | 
Trai steameatts fara: (I 
Treader a sent Fafaeaat | 
saminda area date: II 


THEI TGA Waargee ala | 
BatonBraneat 3 artard Aagay I 9 I 


Sloka 7 — When the 7th house from Venus in her Ashta- 
kavarga has more bindus contributed by malefics and if 
Gulika is in the 3rd or 11th house from Venus, death of 
wife may happen. 


c 


138 ERAT: CHAP. XI 


Notes; The 3rd and 11th houses from Venus are the same as 
the trine houses from her 7th house. 


aaertad Rarer eae az- 

AEM FAA HATTA SAT AAA | 
AMATM Taya Farr 

TE: MATSHITA STAAAT HAT |< UI 


Sloka 8—In the Ashtakavarga of Venus when the 7th 
house from her has a bindu contributed by the Sun and 
the Janma asterism of the wife is in Krittika triad, she will 
be very dear (to the husband) as his own soul. 

If the bindu is that of the Moon and the Janma 
asterism is in Rohini triad, she will be very pleasing to his 
mind. 

If that of Mars and the Janma asterism is in Mrigasiras 
triad, she will be very helpful to the husband in doing 
good deeds. The same effect is obtained in respect of Ketu 
for Aswini triad ( g3a4c#d: ). 

If that of Mercury and the Janma asterism is in 
Aslesha triad, she will be obedient and agreeable to the 
husband’s commands. 

If that of Jupiter and the Janma asterism is in Punar- 
vasu triad, she will be blessed with virtuous children. 

If that of Venus and the Janma asterism is in Bharani 
triad, she will be capable of giving conjugal happiness to 
tha husband. ~ 

If that of Saturn and the Janma asterism is in Pushya 
triad, she will be always ready to serve her husband like 
a slave. Similar effects are evident for Rahu in respect of 
Ardra triad ( afantat: ). 

Notes: Ic is impossible to have a bindz of Venus in the 7th 
house from her. Still the author has mentioned “ Ta: aTa- 

” for the effect of Venus. Therefore it is proper to 
consider the 7th house from the Lagna where a bindu from 
Venus may be possible and the wife can be born in Bharani 
triad. Hence the Lagna’s 7th house also should be considered 
in the case of bindus of other planets. The lordship of asterisms 
is as followed in the Vimshottari Dasa system. 


sl. 8-12 ASHTAKAVARGA 139 


TARERMATES STRAT TAT | 
aaa RaeatscreTeTAPTATy 2 


Sloka 9 — A wife having her Moon in (a) a house which 
has the maximum number of bindus in the Moon’s Ashta- 
kavarga of the husband ; or (b) a house which has the 
maximum number of bivdus in the husband’s Samudaya- 
shtakavarga ; or (c) a house which has a bindu contributed 
by the lord of the 7th house from Venus in the husband’s 


Ashtakavarga of Venus ; is very auspicious for the welfare 
of the husband. 


Notes: Similarly, the wife’s horoscope should be considered for 
the husband. In the Standard Horoscope Mars the lord of the 
7th house from Venus, contributes a bindu in Tula, the wife's 
Janmarasi. 


TENTS AAG: THEA TE: | 

yet a Raza @ aaar sem are WMA UI 2° i 
Sloka 10 — Out of the houses which contain more bindus 
in the Ashtakavarga of Venus, any one occupied by :— 
(a) a benefic ; (b) the lord of the Lagna ; or (c) the lord 
of the 7th house, indicates the direction of the bride’s place 
for a happy married life. 


MAHI WAT ATT F TATA: | 
qaraaarpraTgy Faas 22 


Sloke 11— When Venus associated with 8 bindus is 
posited in a Trikona or Kendra house, the person will be 
possessing mighty transport animals ; if with 7 bindus in 
the above case, he will be possessing much wealth and 
precious stones; and will be enjoying all comforts 
throughout his life. 


arreahecirratand J FEY 
— iRahefaetatarat erg | 
Tarserieegqantaetataat 
MART TTAATE TAIT UL 82 


140 TERR: cHaP. XI 


Sloka 12— The Rajayoga mentioned in Verse No. 11 is 
nullified when the said Venus is in her depression or 
occupies the 7th, 12th or 8th bhava. It is commendable 
to have the bed-chamber (in one’s own house) in the 
direction indicated by the rasi (bhava) containing the 
least number of bindus in the Ashtakavarga of Venus, 
because it helps one to win over women and keep them in 
willing submission. 


Notes: Only Jatakaparijata (from which this verse is taken) 
takes the rasi (bhava) of the least number of bizdus, while 
Prasnamarga, Devakeralam, Parasara-hora, Phaladeepika and 
other works take the one having maximum bindus for the 
cardinal direction to locate the bedroom. 


TOM PANIT FT AAAS | 
teat tanfeahe: earzed ettoretciafa: 11 22 1 


Sloke 13—JIn the Ashtakavarga of Venus, the direction 
represented by the rast (bhava) having the highest number 
of bindus should be the wife’s Janmarasi, so as to ensure 
increase in progeny through her. If the bindus are less, 
wealth and progeny will be poor. 


HAA FAITH TIISTT At | 

fia oadge arehiaieste 1 22 11 
aia ater: | 
TROT: Maaaiscedageacwisaes 1 24 A 


Slokas 14-15 — When Venus occupies the house of Saturn 
either in rasi or in Navamsa; or is in conjunction with 
Saturn or any other malefic ; or is in debilitation Navamsa 
(Kanya), the person is desirous of having union with a 
despicable woman. 


If Venus occupies the house of Mars either in ras? or 
Navamsa and is aspected by or associated with Mars, the 
person will be fond of beautiful women of other people. 


sl. 13-21 ASHTAKAVARGA 141 


TUT :— 
Wages BR Wawanasls ar | 
aaa gates ehtafteste II 


SRO aaiN Hata aearereat Aft Te Te: | 

TART SHH TUT aT EAT TAH aT TEA. 112 E 

SUT BETA AED TAT TATA | 

TEM aT TARO TA TeT ATA aT TA 1 2 HI 

TURIN Tex ATTA SaaASTT aT | 

qaateat Ba Meal: PaMIeT |) 2e Il 
Slokas 16-18 — When the Navainsa of the 7th house falls 
in the house of Saturn or Mars and (a) the 7th house is 
aspected by them, or (b) the lord of the 7th house occu- 
pies the rasi of Saturn or Mars, the wife of such a person 
will have a lover, or she will be a strumpet, prostitute, 
servant or destroyer of the husband’s happiness. 

When the Moon, having Navamsa in the rasi of a 
malefic planet is either in the 7th or the 12th house ; and 
Venus is associated with a malefic planet, the person comes 
to grief through a woman. 


DHIRAMTA MM ETT TAT | 
AT GUAM A ALIA TofeaAT Ut 2S 
Sloka 19 —The complexion, appearance and the charac- 
teristics of a wife will be according to (1) the lord of the 
Navamsa occupied by Venus; or (2) the lord of the 
Navamsa occupied by the Moen ; and her virtues will be 
according to the lord of the 7th house. 
TIA: — 
Saran at aaisqaeass Bq 
AUTANASHAM AA: Dat TA | 
feairararftiet: feet aaa ag: 
ATTA Aa: AAI TM: |! 
Tarre aos Ae ott TAT (Re II 
at sarees AAT at Faq | 
Cama HS aT Mega y AAA: RE UI 


142 ana: CHAP. XI 


Slokas 20-21—If Saturn is in the 5th or the 9th house 
from Venus, the married life is not happy ; but Jupiter in 
the same position from Venus bestows happiness. One 
should observe the virtues of the wife from the strength 
or weakness of these planets. 

Having considered the primary effects from the above, 
one should predict further from the Ashtakavarga of 
Venus. 


Devakeralam and other works :— 

1. Venus with 5 or 6 bindus in a Kendra or Trikona, 
bestows a happy and prosperous family life and 
conjugal bliss. If this Venus is aspected by Mars, the 
wives will be from noble families. 


2. When Venus is in the Lagna, 4th or 10th bhava 
associated with 5 bindus and has an aspect from a 
benefic, the person will possess fine vehicles. 

In the above Yoga, if Venus is in the house of Mars, 
there will be immense wealth and many kinds of 
vehicles. 


3. When Venus is in a Kendra (except the 7th bhava) or 
Trikona from the Lagna, associated with 5 or more 
bindus and is not aspected by Mars, the person will 
marry early in life. 


4. When Venus with 5 bimdus is in her debilitation rasi 
or Navamsa, and is connected with Mars (by associa- 
tion or aspect), the person will undergo great 
difficulties to get married. 


5. Venus in a Trikona and the 2nd house from the Lagna 
occupied or aspected by malefics will create many 
obstacles for marriage. 


6. If the lord of the sign occupied by Venus is in a 
Kendra or Trikona from the Lagna and associated 
with 5 bindus in the Ashtakavarga of Venus, the person 
will possess wealth, lands, vehicles and good fortune. 


7. If the lord of the house occupied by Venus is in the 
6th or 8th house ftom Venus and is in trine to the 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 143 
Lagna, the person will ill-treat his wife and become a 
pauper in course of time. 


When the lords of 7th and 5th houses are in trine to 
each other and Mars is in the 7th house from the 
Lagna, the person will be abandoned by his wife. 


When Mars or Saturn is in the 7th bhava, and the 
lord of the 7th bhava has Navamsa in the house of 
Saturn or Mars ; or has an aspect from them, the wife 
of the native will be immoral. 


When Venus, associated with 4 bindus, is in her 
debilitation rasi or Navamsa and has an aspect from 
Mars, there will be scandal about his wife. 


When Venus, with 1 to 3 bimdus in Saturn’s rasi or 
Navamsa, has an aspect from Mars, the person will 
become the husband of an adulteress. 


When Venus with 5 bindus is in the house of Mars 
or his Navamsa and is (also) aspected by Mars, the 
person will be going after other people’s wives (cf. 
item No. 1 above). 

Mars in the 6th house, the Moon in the 7th house and 
Venus in the 12th house (from the Lagna) and any one 
of these having an aspect or conjunction with Saturn 
cr Rahu, the person will have union with a widow. 


The Moon in the 7th, the lord of the 7th having 
connection with Rahu, and Venus in exaltation rasi, 
the person will have union with an old woman. 


When Venus associated with more than 3 bindus has 
exaltation Navamsa and an aspect from Mars, the 
person will be always lascivious. 

When Venus with 2 or 3 dimdus is in the 6th, 7th, 8th 
or 12th house and the lord of the 7th house is in 
debilitation, the person will be co-habitting with a 
base woman. 


When Venus in the 6th, 8th or 12th house with 2 or 3 


bindus is in conjunction with or aspected by Saturn, 
the person will co-habit with a blind woman. 


144 wena: cuapP. XI 


18. When the lord of the 9th is in the 7th house and the 
lord of the 7th is in Jupiter's house and malefics 
occupy. the 7th house, the person will have union with 
a woman of defective limb. 

Same is the case when a malefic is in the 9th house, 
the lord of the 9th is in the 7th house and another 
malefic is in the 2nd house. 

19. When Saturn or Mars occupies the 2nd or the 7th 
house from the Lagna and Venus is in the 12th, the 
person will marry a second time even when the first 
wife is alive. 

20. When the lord of the house occupied by the 
Kalatradhipa (lord of 7th) is in Kataka sign and is 
associated or aspected by malefics, the person will 
have two wives. 

21. When Venus is in debilitation or is in combust, with 
no benefic aspect, and the lord of the 7th house, is 
hemmed in between malefics ( W7#d%) he will have 
three wives. 

Lord of the 7th in the 9th house, a malefic in the 
2nd and Venus in a common ( 34 )sign, indicate two 
wives. 

22. The number of wives will be as many as there are 
planets in the 7th or 2nd house. This should be 
considered only when the 2nd house is occupied by a 
malefic. 

23. When the 7th house is a house of Saturn or Mars and 
when Venus is aspected by Mars and if malefics 
occupy the 2nd house, the person’s marriage will be 
by use of force. 

24. When the lord of the Navamsa rast of the Moon is 
between the lords of the Ist and the 7th houses and 
also aspects his own house, the marriage is by use of 
force. 

25. When the lord of the house occupied by the lord of 
the 7th is in the 6th or 8th house from the 7th house 
(Kalatrasthana), or if he (that lord) is in debilitation, 
in an inimical house or in combust, there is no chance 
of an issue. 


sl, 22 ASHTAKAVARGA 145 


26. When Jupiter in transit passes through the trine 
houses of Venus or the lord of the 7th, marriage takes 
place. 

27. When Venus is in the 7th bhava, and the lord of the 
7th is aspected by Mars, the marriage takes place 
after great effort. 


28. Marriage of persons born in Uttarayana ( 3eRMa ) 
takes place when the Sun comes to the Navamsa rast 
of Jupiter or its trine rasis and he (the Sun) is 
aspected by Jupiter at that time. 

29. Marriage of persons born in Dakshinayana (@Brrza) 
takes place when the Sun comes to the Navamsa ras? 
of Venus or its trines and he (the Sun) is aspected by 
Jupiter at that time. 

30. Marriage may take place when the Sun is in the 
Navamsa rasi of the lord of the Lagna, aspected by 
Jupiter at that time. 

31. If the wife is from the direction represented by the 

rasi (bhava), which is without a bindu of Venus in 
the Lagnashtakavarga of the husband, the result of 
such marriage is sickness and great sorrow. 
If on the other hand, the wife is from the direction 
of the rast, which has more bindus in the Lagnashta- 
kavarga of the husband, the union brings great 
happiness, fame, long life and good children. 


URIATYEd WRITE TeBlAaAVs ya- 
card May Regs TAHT AT | 
Ta Tawa Rreava: dara ar- 
cafes zanfayraad agrhent at eT RRA 


Sloka 22 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Venus by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 7th 
house from her. Divide the product by 27 and find the 
remainder. Count that much from Aswini and when 
Jupiter passes through that asterism represented by the 
remainder, marriage may take place. 

a, F. Ye 


146 aaa: CHAP. XI 


Divide the same product by 12 and find the remainder 

and determine the rasi from Mesha. When Jupiter passes 
through that house or during the Dasa or Antara of the 
lord of that house, marriage may take place. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Venus’ Shodhyapinda 148 x 4 
(bindus in the 7th house from her before the reductions) = 592, 
divided by 27 gives remainder 25. Counted from Aswini this 
gives Purvabhadrapada. When Jupiter transits this asterism 
marriage may take place. 

The product 592 divided by 12 leaves remainder 4 which 
represents the Kataka house (counted from Mesha). Jupiter’s 
transit over that house or the Dasa and Antara of the lord 
thereof, i.e., the Moon, will bring about the aforesaid resuits. 


TMAATHA MART lala AAA 

TA MAGA TRIS THAR AT | 
FMGENIE GRA ea 

Ta Aged Feat AF ada 1221 


Sloka 23-— When the lord of the 7th bhava and its 
Karaka are both benefics and occupy the 7th bhava from 
the Lagna ; and also, if this 7th bhava is full of strength 
and is unaspected by or unassociated with malefic planets, 
the wife and the husband die simultaneously. 

The death of the wife takes place during the Dasa or 
Antara (main or sub-period) of a Chhidra ( fez — vul- 
nerable) planet pertaining to the 7th bhava; when Saturn 
passes through the bhava which according to the Ashtaka- 
varga of Venus is fatal for the wife and, also, when Jupi- 
ter occupies the same Navamsa as that of Saturn (during 
transit). 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— 


Venus’ Shodhyapinda 148x4 (bindus in the 7th house from 
her before the reductions) = 592 divided by 12 gives remainder 
4 which represents the Kataka house (counted from Mesha). 
When Saturn passes through it and at the same time Jupiter 
transits Kataka Navamsa in any rasi, the death of the wife may 
take place. 


sl. 23 ASHTAKAVARGA 147 


The following seven planets are Chhidra planets :— 


the lord of the 8th bhava ; 

the planet occupying the 8th bhava ; 

the planet ‘that aspects the 8th bhava; 
the lord of the 22nd Drekana (Khara) from the Lagna ; 
the planet im conjunction with the lord of the 8th bhava ; 
the lord of the 64th Navamsa from that occupied by the Moon ; 
the Adhishatru of the lord of the 8th bhava. 

Death may take place in the Dasa of that planet which is 
the strongest of them. 


Sa NAN VW RW N = 


Shodhyapinda calculations for Venus :-— 

In the Standard Horoscope Venus’ Shodhyapinda 148x4 
(bindus in the 7th house from: her before the reductions) = 592 
divided by 27 leaves remainder 25. Counted from Aswini this 
gives Purvabhadrapada. When Saturn transits Purvabhadrapada 
or its trines the death of the wife may take place. 

To find Jupiter’s position :— 

148 x4 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter in Venus’ 
Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 592 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 25 which gives Purvabhadrapada or its trines for 
Jupiter’s transit. 

To find the Sun’s position :-— 

148x1 (bindu in the 7th house from the Sun in Venus’ 
Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 148 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 13 which gives Hasta or its trines for the Sun’s 
transit. 


CHAPTER XII 
ASHTAKAVARGA OF SATURN 


Aaanaratat sekaeras: 
gat ATTA AAA TSAI: | 
aReARMeIM Gara at 
RATE: TW Afsaa aera 2 1 


Sloka 1—-When Saturn in his Ashtakavarga transits 
bhavas containing 8 to 0 bimdus, the results are as 
follows — 
8 bindus one becomes the head of a village, town or 
becomes a Royal chamberlain. ; 


7 45 one gets female slaves, asses, camels ; 


5 one gets respect from leaders of thieves 
and forest tribes ; 
5 4 one gets huge quantities of agricultural 
produce ; 
»» moderate happiness and misery ; 
3. 45 loss of wealth, servants, women and happi- 
ness ; 


2. % imprisonment, anxiety or sickness ; 
1 bindu uncouth in all actions ; 
0 , loss of everything. 


Additional results given by other authors for the 
above — 


2 bindus poverty ; 
1 bindu sickness ; 
0 , possibility of death. 


9. seTefrcar 2, afar 
a, Beans ¥. Agiseacaen wat 


sl. 1-4 ASHTAKAVARGA 149 


Saturn’s Ashtakavarga 


ate tar saat ae Ta 
art afd safsatad argarasetatt * | 
aaah Praaafter sraarersag 
Rrert earqaend array ae: RU 
Sloka 2 — When Saturn transits a Kakshya having a bindu 
in his Ashtakavarga he confers wealth by way of legacy, 
success in undertakings through a minister of a king, con- 
tacts with virtuous people, land, victory against cheats, 
interest in sacred and religious duties ( 14, a4 and 3744) 


sweetmeats, boon from a King and increase in agricultural 
produce. 


Reg: ad goiter) arqietaga 

nat Tefoaaheatteeererat * | 
Pret aaa agar ware: aleat 

Seater wales a wat TEN atts 13 UI 


Sloka 3— While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu, 
he causes misery, fear from a King, increase of troubles 
from or to relatives, accidental wounds from weapons, 
loss of money, mental agitation in diverse ways, loss of 
land or quarrels, distortion of mind and loss in travel. 


TTA AAT | 
TacenTt = ees AAT Ne 


150 aqTERaT: CHAP, XII 


Sloka 4— The 8th house from Saturn is called the house 
of death. One should find out one’s own longevity from 
the Ashtakavarga of Saturn. 


CARAVAN BERS TEN WAR 
aranfenect Blea Heat araTarat FAA 
ard aaah Waar Wetec rated 
ARTA HANAN TAL 4 UI 


Sloka 5 — When Saturn transits a rasi (bhava) containing 
the highest number of bindus in his Ashtakavarga, acquisi- 
tion of servants, agricultural work, etc., will prove fruit- 
ful. Agriculture on a small scale, quarters for untouchables 
and other servants, places for refuse, privy, dungcakes, 
firewood, etc., should be located in one’s residence in the 
direction indicated by the ras¢ (bhava) having highest 
number of bindus. 


WIMOTAT A ue, TH Tease 
mafeaara az earaT TASHA BAY aT HEI 


Sloka 6 — Find which bhava has the minimum number of 
bindus in the Ashtakavarga of Saturn. Some sort of trou- 
ble will be happening daily at the time when that bhava 
(rast) rises. Also when the Sun transits that house, the 
whole period (one month) will cause danger or death. 

Notes :—In the Standard Horoscope Makara has only 1 bindu. 


AVTEHAT J AT ater KS TE | 

wr afta Hes TRI TAT TAT Teta: WII 
THe TTA Aq TMI Ad 3aq | 
SMA THA FATA WU 


Sloka 7, 8—Find out a bhava having no bindu in the_ 
Ashtakavarga of Saturn. When Saturn transits that house, 
no (good) results promised by the bhava will happen. 


If the Sun and the Moon along with Saturn transit 
the said house and if the Dasa or Apahara of a Maraka 


sl. 5-10 ASHTAKAVARGA 151 


ed 


planet is in progress, death may take place. If the Dasa 
and Apahara are both bad, death is the result without 
doubt. 
TURE is 
wasaiaatal daa a vaq! 
ae eat HS ale BIS AE qaT II 


StaySraseRTaT — 
gana faces af eanake at 
aa avoriaay faked Rak at BT | 
fatnuda ads ala seaateat 
Tan avai garalt a wares: || 
APS TARATAA Tage Was Aas | 
aaRAY Vaasa a aa akkraaded eld || 


TAT HAFAAM KATAAT TASATTTTATA | 
TATA TE BS Say Bg at WATT SII 
aad aeahqeal TaTaeTay TF FET | 
AACAAATET HAS TA TAT Pega ala: MAU Lo Ut 


Slokas 9, 10— Find the total of bindus from the Lagna 
to Saturn (inclusive of both the houses); and from Saturn 
to the Lagna. In the years represented by these totals and 
also in the year of the sum of these two totals, one gets 
bodily afflictions or death or goes to a foreign country. 
In the same years also, one suffers from loss of wealth or 
untold miseries and if during any one of these three years, 
the Dasa or Apahara of a weak (or Maraka) planet is in 
progress, death is sure to happen. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :— 

(1) bindus from the Lagna to Saturn 5, 3, 5, 4, 2, 2, 3, 
1=25; 

(2) bindus from Saturn to the Lagna 1, 2, 6, 3, 3, 5 = 20; 


152 SASHA: CHAP. XI 


(3) the total of the above two items, ie. 25 + 20 = 45. 


Rear — 
saftaciaressdenal Rafe aarséqard | 
qatsearateaa afaaan & aaa I 


WaT — 
waaaeaed TETHA BAT | 
saMeKePesee eaadt eaneaz I! 
wateagded Fertaa dza7 | 
wealfenedenst eqs ae aaredg |! 
aMaaaaes gq Heqa: Tae | 


TAU: — 
saeaaMaTsIaANAde Aealaraqtaeayqaa ged | 
wasaraqamMaaaat aqremee-aaga aay afeat | 


RTT TATTATG T Are 
MIA TYRANT TATA aT | 
onamaarsTd FT Hx 
Ow: aga wasseTay: 11 22H 
Sloka 11— When Saturn passes through a bhava which is 
void of a bindz in his Ashtakavarga the person born under 
this Yoga will meet with death or incur loss of wealth. 
If Saturn is in a Kendra associated with 1, 2, 3 or 4 bindus 
and this house happens to be his exaltation sign, any child 
born will be short-lived. 


qeeaagaed TG Tae 
weary gaara | 

We Mena 
oraguaaeraraaral 122 UI 


Sloka 12—When Saturn possessed of strength and 
associated with 6 or 5 bindus is in the 1st bhava, the per- 


sl. 11-14 ASHTAKAVARGA 153 


son concerned experiences much sorrow even from birth 
and will undergo loss of wealth. If he is in his debilitation 
or inimical house and is associated with 5 or more 
bindus, the person will have long life provided the Moon 
is in an auspicious Varga (Ref. Chap. IV-Verse 17). 


metered waste 
arequlaaemeaaa Te | 
Atsefegaihay qearraest- 
mentaraed fiftaegae saver: ti 23 


Sloka 13— When Saturn, in combust, in an inimical 
house or in debilitation, is associated with 5 or 4 bindus 
and occupies the 5th or 1st bhava, a native will have female 
slaves, camels and wealth. If such Saturn is associated with 
8 bindus, the native will be the head of towns, well-versed 
in the administration and diplomacy ; if the number of 
bindus is 7, the person born will be very wealthy. 

Notes: Saturn cannot be associated with 8 bindus as he does 
not contribute a bindu in the house occupied by him. Therefore 
7 bindus will be the maximum. (Read 6 bindus where 7 are 
mentioned and 7 bindus where 8 are mentioned). 


aaeat Tea Fates eat afe Gah: wag | 
WAIT GeTaTA Tt Reaeetga Baa ui 22 1 


Sloka 14 — After both the reductions, if the houses occu- 
pied by Saturn and the 7th from that are both devoid of 
bindus, the native will meet with an accidental or unna- 
tural death in a deserted place. 

If both the above houses have brndus and the donors 
of these bindus are in friendly and other good houses, 
death will take place amidst his relatives and friends. 

Devakeralam and other works — 

1. When Saturn is in the Lagna with no bindu the 
result is death or loss of property or great sickness. 

2. If Saturn is in debilitation, in the Lagna or in an ini- 
mical house with more than 4 bindus and is aspected 
by a benefic, the person will have a long life. 


154 


Bea: CHAP. XII 


10. 


It. 


When, Saturn is associated with 4 or 5 bindus and 
occupies debilitation, inimical house or is in combust, 
the person will be riding on horses, elephants, camels 
and other conveyances and will be rich. 


When Saturn debilitated in Navamsa occupies the 
Lagna or the 5th house associated with more than 4 
bindus, the person will be poor and suffering from 
diseases in neck such as Goitre, Laryngitis, etc. 


Saturn in the Lagna or the 4th house, with 3 or 4 
bindus, will make a person short-lived if the said 
Saturn is not in exaltation or in his own house. 


Saturn in a Kendra or Trikona occupying his own 
house in rast and Navamsa associated with 1 to 3 
bindus, makes a person earn wealth by various means. 


When Saturn as the lord of the 9th and 10th houses 
is in the 3rd, 6th cr 11th house, associated with 
3 bindus, the person becomes a King or equal to a 
King. (This can happen only in Vrishabha Lagna). 


When Saturn is in his own house with 4 bindus and 
that happens to be the 2nd house (Makara Lagna) or 
the 12th house (Kumbha Lagna) and other malefics 
are in Trikona to the Lagna, the person will be a beg- 
gar throughout his life. 


When the lord of the 8th house from the Lagna or 
Saturn, is in an inimical house or in combust and 
without any benefic aspect, the person will be a life- 
long beggar. 

When there is a benefic in the 8th house from the 
Lagna or from Saturn ; and the lord of that house is 
powerful, the native will enjoy full happiness through- 
out his life. 


Saturn and the Moon in the Lagna associated with 
more than 4 bindus bring great poverty. But, if they 
are in other Kendras, the person becomes a King or one 
equal to a King. 


12. 


13. 


14, 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 155 


When Saturn is in Mesha, Mars in Makara each with 
4 bindus (in Saturn’s Ashtakavarga) and the lord of 
the 8th house is weak, the person is poor and afflicted 
with Gout or Rheumatism. 


When Mars in debilitation with 1 bindu (in Saturn’s 
Ashtakavarga) is conjoint with or aspected by Saturn, 
the person will be sickly and sorrowful sometimes, 
and at other times prosperous and happy. 


When Mars as the lord of the Lagna and the 8th 
house is in the 9th house with Saturn and is associat- 
ed or aspected by the Sun, the person will be fickle- 
minded and short-lived. (This happens only in Mesha 
Lagna). 


When the lords of the 4th, 8th and 12th houses have 
association with or aspect from Saturn and the Moon 
is in the 6th, 8th or the 12th house, the person will 
be short-lived. 


The death takes place in a foreign place when Saturn 
is associated with 1 to 3 bindus in any bhava. 


When malefics are in the 10th house, Saturn and 
Rahu in the 9th and the lord of the 10th house from 
the 10th is Venus, the person will go on a pilgrimage 
and will have a bath in the holy Ganges (This can 
happen only in Mesha and Vrischika Lagnas). 


When Saturn with 2 or 3 bindus is in the 2nd house 
and is aspected or conjoined with the lord of the 
2nd house, the person will go on a pilgrimage to the 
sacred rivers. 


When Saturn with 3 bindus is in the 10th house con- 
joined with the lord of the 10th, the person will be 
living in a foreign place. 


When Saturn is in the 2nd house and the lord of the 
2nd house is weak, the person will commit heinous 
and sinful deeds and will meet with an ignoble end, 
even when there is a Rajayoga. 


156 wea: cHAP. XII 


area Rear zerfa sari fraratea | 
qafndarsaa 8 ae fins GHePawaTT ETL URI 


Sloka 15— The causes of loss, misfortune, etc., and un- 
favourable years should be considered from the Ashtaka- 
varga of Saturn. The Shuddhapinda arrived at after the 
reductions and multiplications as done previously, should 
be considered by the intelligent people for finding the 
results attributable to Saturn. 


AeaeeATMaed veseq ANTM 

Re zaga Radshaay zafeatttser a | 
saratsacmated azar os FIR 

FOU BS Rrecreyarg sts Tat aT aes 12S UI 


Sloka 16— Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Saturn by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 8th 
house from Saturn and divide the product by 27. Find the 
asterism represented by the remainder counted from As- 
wini. When Saturn transits that asterism or its trines, death 
of the native may take place. 


Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Saturn by (1) the 
number of bimdus (before the reductions) in the house 
occupied by Jupiter and (2) by the number of bindus 
(before the reductions) in the house occupied by the Sun. 
Divide these two products by 12 and find the remainders. 
Count that much from Mesha house. The first remainder 
shows the house occupied by Jupiter and the second, the 
house occupied by the Sun (solar month) when death of 
the native may happen. 


Notes: 1. In the Standard Horoscope Saturn’s Shodhyapinda 
153x5 (bindus in the 8th house from him before the reduc- 
tions) = 765 divided by 27 leaves remainder 9. Counted from 
Aswini this gives Aslesha. When Saturn transits Aslesha or its 
trines the death of the native may take place. 


2. 153x2 (bindus in the house occupied by Jupiter in 
Saturn’s Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 306 divided by 


sl. 15-17 ASHTAKAVARGA 157 


12 leaves remainder 6, i.e, Kanya house (counted from Mesha) 
which when transitted by Jupiter, death of the native may take 
place. 


3. 153x4 (bindus in the house occupied by the Sun in 
Saturn’s Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 612 divided by 
12 leaves O remainder, i.e., Meena house which when transitted 
by the Sun, death of the native may take place. 


All the above three conditions have to be satisfied, i.e., Saturn, 
Jupiter and the Sun should pass simultaneously through the 
respective positions as above, at the time of the native’s death. 


apa Today aaEd aay aay 

SAA TTASA AAS TARASHTT Tes | 
Paegaaearagtird es F AREA 

Ree saaaRehieanglereswat tl 29 11 


Sloka 17— Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Saturn — 
(1) by the number 7 ; (2) by the number of bindus 
(before the reductions) in the house occupied by Saturn. 
Divide the respective products by 27 and find the re- 
mainders. Add these two remainders together and sub- 
tract 27, if the total exceeds 27. 


Find out the asterisms represented by the above three 
remainders counted from Aswini. When Saturn transits 
any one of them, the death of the native may take place. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :—1. Saturn’s Shodhyapinda 
153 X 7 = 1071 divided by 27 leaves remainder 18. Counted from 
Aswini this gives Jyeshta. 

2. 153x1 (bindu in the house occupied by Saturn before 
the reductions) = 153 divided by 27 leaves remainder 18, i.e., 
Jyeshta. 


3. The remainders 18 4- 18 =36 minus 27 = 9, i.e., Aslesha. 
MART TAT — 
Arasantigagearnes wemenetat TOPAea | 
wudeted sata maa ward ard |! 


158 TERR cHAp, XII 


Reaatrcanta 3 Gerla dared 
qian defeat as ala Fz | 
qat TSA Tag WTEsA- 
FReraeigortaeat wafer’ Tat 11 Le 
Sloka 18— Multiply the sum of the bindus from the Lagna 
to Saturn (both inclusive) by the number 7 and divide the 
product by 27. The remainder shows the asterism (from 
Aswini) which when transitted by Saturn brings loss of 
wealth and happiness. 


Also, transit over the asterism indicated by the remain- 
der arrived by multiplying the Shuddhapinda of Saturn 
by the number of bindus in the 8th house from the Lagna 
and divided by 27, gives the same effects. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— 

The sum of the hindus from the Lagna to Saturn is 25 
(5, 3, 5, 4, 2, 2, 3, 1). The product is 25x 7 = 175 divided by 
27, leaves the remainder 13. Counted from Aswini this gives Hasta 
which when transitted by Saturn brings loss of wealth and 
happiness. 

2. Saturn’s Shodhyapinda 153x1 (bizdu in the 8th house 
from the Lagna before the reductions) = 153 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 18. Counted from Aswini this gives Jyeshta. 


eaten — 
STEHAFSSANS AT BAA | 
RonSiararraest THAT |I 
areas TAS aat WITS: Ta: | 
earaaad Tea Ae sash a sai 
GTA s— 
Ramanand faz = 1) 
favs Geerey quaimaraeaa: Fe: | 
aang games aagu: || 


&. mPaesi 


CHAPTER XIII 
MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS 


ward fenat ate aT Hee 
AGA wal sTacTT Fela | 
HAR AAT Ae GATT: 
aeaAwAT awa aT 2 


Sloka 1— When the Moon is in the 1st or 7th bhava and 
is not aspected by Jupiter, a Kemadruma Yoga (poverty 
Yoga) is formed. Similarly when planets are associated 
with few bindus in their Bhinnashtakavargas and are 
without strength, effects like poverty Yoga are noticed. 


TANT TUSASTA: | 
Araneta CIR TEI THAT I Pa 


ae Sree Hy want aT 


Slokas 2, 3 —It is auspicious to choose the cardinal direc- 

tions in one’s own house represented by the bhavas (rasis) 

having the maximum number of bindus in the respective 

Bhinnashtakavargas of the planets for the following:— 
1. Location of worship from the Sun; 


2. 3 » water from the Moon ; 

3. Pe » kitchen from Mars; 

4, » 9 Study-room from Mercury (qufqearear); 

5. » 9 Khajana, (Self-deposit) from Jupiter 
( sae ) ; 

6. » 9 bedroom and Zanana from Venus ; 

7 , refuse, lavatory, fuel, etc., from Saturn. 


vise a ee dantte: 
gBlarsiracaenestrenta: | 
THAT amfheaTaseT- 
ta fra Azad fro Aeiet ie i 


160 AwRaT: cHAP. XIII 


Sloka 4— When the Sun is in an unfavourable position 
he causes afflictions to the head and face due to impurities 
in bile; the Moon in a similar position afflicts the heart 
and neck due to phlegm; Mars afflicts the back and the 
belly portions due to blood disorders; Mercury, the joints 
of the limbs such as arms and legs, nervous affliction due 
to excess of bile, phlegm and wind; Jupiter affects the 
loins and shanks due to excess of phlegm; Venus, the 
thighs, private parts and scrotum due to excess of bile and 
phlegm and Saturn affects the buttocks and anal parts due 
to wind troubles. 
Hard TgI HATITSs a KeTAt TA 
ayet ade geakt Tae Ty | 
PAGAN: HOPI AMSA TEA 
Hana FS Ae Tel: Tatar ata: 41 

Sloka 5 — (1) Add the bindus from the Lagna to Mars 
(both houses inclusive) and from Mars to the Lagna, in 
Mars’ Ashtakavarga. In the years represented by these 
totals, there will be incessant miseries and danger from 
weapon and fire. 

(2) Add the bindus from Saturn to Mars and vice 
versa (both houses inclusive) in Mars’ Ashtakavarga. In 
the years represented by these totals there will be danger 
from weapons, when the Lagna is not occupied by a benefic. 

(3) Add the bindus from Saturn to Mars and vice 
versa (both houses inclusive), in Sacurn’s Ashtakavarga. 
In these years there will be danger from bruises, etc. 

(4) Repeat the same process from Rahu to Saturn (in 
Saturn’s Ashtakavarga). In these years there will be loss 
of happiness. 

Notes : Results in respect of items 3 and 4 above should be 
watched. 


aegaating af att aeaithas 11 & U1 


sl, 5-7 ASHTAKAVARGA , 161 


Sloke 6: Add up the bindus from the Lagna to the house 
occupied by a benefic planet (both houses inclusive), and 
also from that house to the Lagna (in their respective 
Ashtakavargas). In the years represented by these totals 
one may get wealth, children, other comforts, etc. . 


In the Ashtakavarga of Mars, the year, counted from 
the Lagna to Mars, brings apprehensions of death, if Mars 
is posited in a rasi of a malefic planet in the natal chart. 


Notes; In the Standard Horoscope (Mars): Total up the bindus 
from the house occupied by Mars to the Lagna (both inclusive, 
ie. 6, 4, 1, 5, 1, 3, 3, 5, 2, 2, 3 = 35). Similarly, add up the 
bindus from the Lagna to the house occupied by Mars (both in- 
clusive, i.e. 3, 4,6 = 13). In the years represented by these totals 
there will be danger from weapons, etc., and also in the year 
(35 + 13) 48. 
THE SUN: From the Lagna to the Sun = 19 
From the Sun to the Lagna = 38 


SATURN: The Lagna to Saturn = 25 
Saturn to the Lagna = 20 


| and 57. 


| and 45. 


In the years represented by the totals of bindus for the bene- 
fic planets, the native may get wealth, children, other comforts, 
etc. 


THE MOON: The Lagna to the Moon = 19 


The Moon to the Lagna = 38} and 2. 


MERCURY: The Lagna to Mercury = 21 and 63 
Mercury to the Lagna = ‘2\ ° 
JUPITER: The Lagna to Jupiter = 24 and 67 
Jupiter to the Lagna = ‘2 ° 
VENUS: The Lagna to Venus = 25 and 62 
Venus to the Lagna = 37 ° 


TAIT Beare Kes 

faTeN ae antes Red aSrarasat | 
TASHA AVlATTA Ys Tar et ert— 

THN et wafta Ayektaraeqa at il 9 I 


a. q. 99 


162 + BERT: cHap. XIII 


Sloka 7 — Find the Shodhyavashishta in the Ashtakavarga 
of any planet. Multiply this figure by the number of 
bindus (before the reductions) in the Karaka bhava of the 
respective planet reckoned from the house occupied by the 
planet. Divide the product by 27 and find the asterism 
(counted from Aswini) corresponding to the remainder. 
When Saturn transits this asterism, the death of the person 
indicated by this Karaka planet may happen. If the Karaka 
is the Sun, the father dies or a person of the like status; 
if the Moon, the mother or a person of the like status; if 
Mars, a brother; if Mercury, a relative; if Jupiter, a son; 
if Venus, wife and if Saturn, the native himself. When 
due to other strong Yogas death of the person is not to 
occur there will be great loss of wealth and property 
during this period. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope multiply the Shodhyavashishta 
figure for the Sun 16x 4 (the number of bindus in the 9th house 
from the Sun before the reductions in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga) 
= 64. Dividing by 27, the remainder is 10, indicating Magha. 
The father’s death may take place when Saturn transits this 
asterism or there will be great loss of wealth, etc. To find the 
time of the mother’s death, multiply the Shodhyavashishta figure 
for the Moon by the number of bindus in the 4th house from 
the Moon before the reductions im the Moon’s Ashtakavarga and 
find the asterism. In the same way, the time of death of other 
relations is calculated from the Ashtakavargas of the other Karaka 
planets (Refer Notes under verse 38, Chap. IV). 


Rentaratemaetes Rartaantearstics | 
amed Raft Rreaey fatacgaa: fe a7 aes: lc 


Slokd 8 —In order: to find the time of death of the father, 
the mother and other relatives, multiply the Shodhyapinda 
of the Karaka planet (as referred in the previous verse) 
by the number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 
relevant bhava reckoned from the position of the Karaka 
planet and divide the product by 27. Saturn’s transit 
through the asterism represented by the remainder counted 


2. fran 


$l. 8-11 ASHTAKAVARGA 163 


from Aswini, brings about the death of the respective 
person. 

Notes: In the previous verse, Shodhyavashishta is taken into con- 
sideration, while in this verse Shodhyapinda is multiplied. 

In the Standard Horoscope multiply the Shodhyapinda of the 
Sun 204x4 (the number of bindus in the 9th house from the Sun 
before the reductions in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga) = 816. Dividing 
by 27 the remainder is 6, ie., Ardra. : 


UETMTAUAM Te aerators Reaen | 
MATA AKA TH AAT 1S 


Sloka 9 — When Rahu is in either Dhanus or Meena (in 
the natal chart) and Jupiter transits that rasi or its trines, 
that period will bring misfortune to the person, or if Rahu 
and Jupiter are in conjunction in a natal chart and when 
Jupiter cransits that rasi or its trines, that period will 
bring misfortune to the person. 

When Jupiter transits the asterism occupied by the 
lord of the 6th house (or its trines), there is fear of death. 
When the same asterism (or its trines) is transitted by 
Saturn death may cccur. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Mars the lord of the 6th 


house is in Magha. The transit of Jupiter or Saturn over it brings 
the said results. 


AIUIAMIAAMsAN ATATAAATET aa | 
ARATE UEAUPTASTAA TATA | Lo 
Harieeaat: aaaaeqensesrA za: |. 
ama aftacaar aftaarast ar Sane: at alt starz 


aaq 82 1 


Slokas 10, 11 — When Rahu transits the trine rasis with 
teference to the Dwadasamsa ras? of the lord of the 8th 
house, and the Sun transits the trine rasis of the rasi occu- 
pied by the lord of the 8th house at the same time, death 
may occur. 

Convert the Sun’s longitude into minutes and multiply 
that figure by Rahu’s longitude in minutes. Divide the pro- 


164 ART cuap, XIIE 
duct by the minutes in the Chakra (21,600). The dividend 
converted into signs, degrees and minutes and added to 
the Sun’s position, gives rasi position which when transit- 
ted by the Sun, brings about the death of the native or it 
may happen when the Sun transits the trine rasis of the 
same. 

Convert Mars’ longitude into minutes and multiply 
that by the Sun’s longitude in minutes. Divide the product 
by the minutes in the Chakra. The dividend converted 
into signs, degrees and minutes and added to the Sun’s 
position, gives rasi position (or its trines) which when 
transitted by the Sun brings distress or suffering and. 


weakness. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the lord of the 8th house is 


Saturn and he is in Makara 16°-11’. His Dwadasamsa rasi is 
Kataka. When Rahu transits Kataka, Vrischika or Meena and at 
the same time the Sun transits Makara, Vrishabha or Kanya, the 
death of the native may take place. 
The Sun’s Iongitude 4°-29°-40’ = 8980’ 
Rahu’s longitude 0*- 6°-20’ = 380° 
The product is 8980 x 380 = 34,12,400. 
34,12,400 
21,600 
Adding to the Sun’s longitude, 4*-29°-40” 
O*- 2°-387 
5%- 2°-18’ 
i.e, Kanya, Makara or Vrishabha. 
Mars’ longitude 4% 7°- 1% =: 7,621 
The Sun’s longitude 4*-29°-40’ = 8,980" 
Product = 7621 x 8980 = 6,84,36,580 
Divided by 21,600 ; s sale ats =3,168’ =1°-22°-48" 
21,600 
The Sun’s longitude 4*-29°-40" 
6*-22°-28" 
ie, Tula, Kumbha or Mithuna. 


Dividing by 21,600 ; = 158’ = 0°-2°-38" 


qeaIz — 
SARGTHST: LAAT Ul: LETHE: | 
asaferaassd DAVARI THe |! 


sl. 12-13 ASHTAKAVARGA 165 


aed me aka aarans ia aq | 
aaatrnd aft fad an fear 1 


aaqarrarn fg: caaze Aalied zat Taatash a + 
aerate Tara ala fafearpraeteTtahay TAT 122 


Sloka 12 — When the Moon in her course comes in trine 
to the lord of the 8th house or to the Navamsa resi occu- 
pied by the lord of the 8th, death should be predicted as 
a certainty, if on that day the sum of the bindus associated 
with the planets in the bhavas occupied by them (in their 
Bhinnashtakavargas) is very little. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Saturn, the lord of the 8th 
house is in Makara resi and Vrishabha Navamsa. When the 
Moon transits, the trine rvasis of Makara or Vrishabha, death 
may take place if the sum of the bindus is very little on that day. 


THEM ATT BATCATN TAA TA | 
RAAT WAY eH Teghwvaa | 22 Ul 


Sloka 13—(1) When the rasi representing the 64th 
Navamsa, reckoned from the Lagna or the Moon, is rising; 
or (2) the 7th house rast from the 8th bhava (i.e., the 2nd 
house rasi) is rising; or (3) the 7th house rast from the 
Lagna is rising; one departs from this world if any one of 
these rising signs is devoid of bimdus (has the least number 
of bindus) in the Lagnashtakavarga and the Dasa during 
that time is that of an adverse planet. 

Notes: The 64th Navamsa rasi will be the 4th bhava from the 
indicator’s Navamsa rasi. 

In the Standard Horoscope Longitude of the Lagna is 2*- 4°-37' 
Longitude of the Moon is 6*-13°-34’ 

One Navamsa = 3°-20%, 

63 Navamsas = 3°-20’ x 63 = 210° = 7 signs which added to :-— 
the Lagna = 9*-4°-37’; Navamsa rasi of which is Kumbha ; 
the Moon = 1°-13°-34’ ; Navamsa rast of which is Vrishabha. 
Longitude of the 8th house 9*-2°-41’ ; its 7th will be 3*-2°-41’ 
ie., Kataka rasi. 

Longitude of the Lagna 2*-4°-37’ ; its 7th house will be 8*-4°-37 
ie., Dhanud rasi. 


166 STEHT: cap. XIE 


Therefore, when out of Kumbha, Vrishabha, Kataka or Dhanus,,. 
the one which is devoid of hindus in the Lagnashtakavarga 
(having the least number of bindus) rises, death of the native 
may take place. 


SEaTIgaay Ax ITTASHY aT | 
TARAS TAN At Sq U2 


Sloka 14— (1) If the lord of the 8th house from the 
Lagna is in debilitation; or (2) the Moon is in the 6th or 
8th house from the lord of the 8th; or (3) an inimical 
planet is in the 8th house from the Lagna, death may take 
place when the Sun transits any of the above rasis. 


TAUNTS RAAT ETT: 
mista Raftaet aratnrs Ferg 1 2 1 
MAMAS Tatras: TET 
Mar beanie a ot agrhtararea | 
HASTA ATUATMATE TIA Te- 
atqarerernraas Gras set 1 25 


Slokas 15, 16 — A method, to find the position of Pramana 
(authorised) Gulika and therefrom the positions of Saturn, 
Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon at the time of death, is 
given in other Shastras which is given below. 


For a person born in the day time, find the position of 
Gulika of the previous night and add 6 signs (180°) to 
that. For a birth:during night, take the position of Gulika 
of that day (before sunset). This is the Pramana Gulika. 


Death may take place when (a) Saturn comes to the 
rasi occupied by the lord of the Pramana Gulika rasé; (b) 
Jupiter comes to the rast occupied by the lord of the 
Navamsa ras? of the Pramana Gulika; (c) the Sun comes 
to the rasé occupied by the lord of the Dwadasamsa rasé of 
the Pramana Gulika; and (d) the Moon comes to the rasé 
occupied by the lord of the Trimsamsa degree of the 
Pramana Gulika. 


sl. 14-18 ASHTAKAVARGA 167 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the birth is on Monday 
night. The position of Pramana Gulika will be as for that day 
with the necessary diurnal correction. It is at 22 Gh. 4 Pal. and 
the rising sign at that time is 9*-6°-6/. The Pramana Gulika 
occupies :— 

(a) the rast Makara and its lord Saturn is in Makara ; 

(b) the Navamsa Kumbha and its lord Saturn is in Makara ; 
(c) the Dwadasamsa Meena and its lord Jupiter is in Kanya ; and 
(d) the Trimsamsa of Mercury and its lord is in Kanya. 
Therefore when Saturn is in Makara, Jupiter in Makara, the Sun 
in Kanya and the Moon im Kanya, the death of the native may 
take place. 


PAM ATTARIT TATTAT TANT | 
afar arevig dtarraraleata: 11 V9 I 


Sloka 17 — Out of the many rasis obtained by the various 
methods to find the positions of Saturn, Jupiter, the Sun 
and the Moon, find out which of them contain the least 
number of bindus in their individual Ashtakavargas. When 
the respective planets transit those rasis death of the native 
may take place. , 


MASATAUAAMAIATS APAt ATCA | 
FTAA TTT MET FAT: APTTASTIN TMI 


Sloka 18 — When the planets transit rasis: (1) which are 
in the 2nd, 12th, 5th or 9th bhava from the Lagna (natal 
chart) or the Prasna-Lagna (question time Lagna) ; (2) 
which contain the least number of bindus in their Bhinn- 
ashtakavargas ; and (3) which have the least aspect from 
the respective planets, death of the person may take place; 
if not, some misfortune. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the 2nd, 12th, 5th and 9th 
bbavas are Kataka, Vrishabha, Tula and Kumbha. Taking 
Saturn for example, there are 3, 3, 2 and 2 bindus in his 
Ashtakavarga in the above four bhaves. Kumbha has the least 
aspect from Saturn. Therefore death may take place when Saturn 
comes to Kumbha. In the same manner the other planets also 
should be considered. : 


168 ART cuap. XII 


MAA SMMONTTATAA ATI TI- 

mrtise weal Te aT Te Erelot sr | 
TE Herat gd ad aiereay aT | 

geeaay Vistar: dare Sakae 1 83 


amt ary Renaegzanrenaiadeaed 

ater Holparsacacaataat TAA: | 
Praranakeaagaoa: aasa- 

MATMATS AIA ALY WSsSwat WHA: I Ro I 


Slokas 19, 20 — Death may take place when (1) the Moon 
comes (a) in trine to the Yoga Sphuta ras? corresponding 
to the sum of the longitudes of the Sun and Saturn (ex- 
punging 12 if necessary) or (b) in trine to the 7th rasé 
from the Yoga Sphuta rasi or (c) to the Navamsa rasi of 
the Yoga Sphuta; and (2) the Sun comes (a) in trine to 
the Yoga Sphuta rasi corresponding to the sum of the 
longitudes of the Sun and the lord of Drekana occupied 
by Saturn or (b) in trine to the 7th house of the Yoga 
Sphuta rast or (c) to the Navamsa rast of the Yoga 
Sphuta; and (3) Jupiter comes (a) in trine to the Yoga 
Sphuta rast corresponding to the sum of the longitudes of 
the Sun and the lord of the Navamsa of Saturn or (b) in 
trine to the 7th house of the Yioga Sphuta rasi or (c) to 
the Navamsa of the Yoga Sphuta; and (4) Saturn comes 
(a) in trine to the Yoga Sphuta rasi corresponding to the 
sum of the longitudes of the Sun and the lord of the 
Dwadasamsa of Saturn or (b) in trine to the 7th house 
of the Yoga Sphuta rasi or (c) to the Navamsa of the Yoga 
Sphuta. Death will be certain when these conditions 
agree with the positions arrived by the Navamsa multipli- 
cation method given below:— 


Write down the longitude of the planet (in rasi, 
degrees and minutes) at birth in two places. Multiply the 
first by the number of Navamsas elapsed from Mesha 
(each rasi contains 9 Navamsas) up to the Navamsa occupi- 
ed by the planet and convert the minutes, degrees, etc., to 


sl. 19-20 ASHTAKAVARGA 169 


degrees and rasis, expunging cycles of 12. Bring down the 
longitude in the second place into minutes and multiply 
that by the number of minutes elapsed in the Navamsa oc- 
cupied by the planet. Divide this product by 200 (minutes 
in one Navamsa) and convert the quotient which is in 
minutes into degrees and rasis. Add this to the first pro- 
duct. When the planet passes through the rasi and posi- 
tion thus obtained or through the position obtained by 
deducting this from 12 rasis, death may take place. In this 
manner the positions of all the planets at the time of death 
should be calculated from their respective longitudes. It 
is this method which is mentioned in the previous verse 
as fas: 1 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope (1) for the Moon :— 
Long. of the Sun 4*-29°-40’ 
Long. of Saturn 98-16°-11’ 
2°-15°-51° 
This gives Mithuna and its trines or Dhanus and its trines 
or Kumbha (Navamsa). 
(2) for the Sun :— 
Long. of the Sun 4*-29°-40" 
Long. of lord of Drek. of Sat. Le., Venus — 6°-15°-377 
This gives Meena and its trines or Kanya and its trines or 
Vrischika (Navamsa). 
(3) for Jupiter same position as for the Sun. 
(4) for Saturn Meena trine or Kanya triue or Tula (Navamsa). 


NAVAMSA MULTIPLICATION METHOD. 
The Sun 
Long. 4°-29°-40’ Number of Navamsas elapsed 44 ; 
Number of minutes in unexpired Navamsa 180’. 


4°-29°-40? 180 8980 x 180 
46 4829040 x ——. = 8082’ 
x 200 200 | 
cae sia 


8°. 0°- 2’which gives Dhanus or Kataka (defect from 12 rasis). 
The arrived results for the Moon and other planets are the 


170 TERT: cHap. XIE 


Moon — Mithuna or Makara ; Jupiter — Kumbha or Vrishabha ; 
Saturn — Kataka or Dhanus. 


avin 3 ERI Jar: arg | 
AASETMAD AAT AAA RZ Il 
TAT NAA TT TTTTASTTA | 
real g aay Tat RS AIT 1 2 UI 


Slokas 21, 22 — Bhavas which are auspicious (by having 
more than 28 bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga or more 
than 4 bindus in the Bhinnashtakavarga of a planet) are 
good for all functions. Hence one should select such 
bhavas. The auspicious bhavas from the Moon’s position 
may be availed of when no auspicious Ashtakavarga bhavas. 
are available and the moment an Ashtakavarga bhava is 
available the Moon’s Gochara bhava is not effective. 

Notes: This shows that for all auspicious functions the strength 
of a bhava should be judged by the Ashtakavarga alone, 
irrespective of Gochara position from the Moon (favourable or 


unfavourable). 
AZ I— 
Mat Fast Vea es Faq! 
TR Tearery ws WAAR |! 


ByRaR s— 
fas araftrd ascii fa segag « | 
rartaa ge fafesAa ad ora: II 

wHardss s— 

NAPs Teaaywasy | 

AAG TF Hea Water walt a I 

apaig {Tae Yar: Tag | 
qaneatdghe: wer gee Ta I! 
aad Waa Be aaawaniq | 
reaped sineaie ay oar | 

Elsewhere :-— 
aed aan: Ta festa FaswaT | 
qMSTnEAGA wie Gai wade ale 1) 


sl. 21-23 ASHTAKAVARGA 171 


Od afta Prarererisa e739 | 
Farare: amare & TM FAT 83 


Sloka 23 — Having explained the Bhinnashtakavargas and 
their effects, the method of computing and reading the 
Samudayashtakavarga is now explained. 


CHAPTER XIV 
SAMUDAYASHTAKAVARGA 


A AMVeIATT AAaeg eT | 
aearmmgn Rearend TT U8 
Sloka 1— Again draw up a diagram of the horoscope 
showing the aggregate number of bindus in the several 
bhavas, indicated by Mesha and other rasi in the Ashtaka- 
vargas of the Sun and other planets. I shall now explain 
the effects of the bindus contained in the several bhavas. 


be ders Sun Moon| Mars Metc, | Jupi. eit Sat, a 
Meha | 5 | 7 | 2 eg aaa hg oa 
Vrshabha | 4 | 3 | 2 | 6 | 5 | 5 | 38: 
Mihuna | 4/5 | 3) 4/7 55/1 5 33 
Katka | 4 | 5 | 4 | 5 | 5 6 | 3: 3 
Simha 6) 4) 6) 7) 4), 6/5 38 
Kanya BeBe ae Be Wh de A ee hits ey 
Tula 2 | 3 1 2/4/65 /2: 19 
Vrischika | 4 | 5 | 5 | 6 | 6 | 5 | 2 | 33 
Dhanus 2|4ala By oe te Be ae 
Makara 2 4 3 6 2 5 i 23 
Kumbha 4 2 3 5 5 5 2 26 
Meena 6 5 5 | 4 5 1 6 | 32 


sl. 1 ASHTAKAVARGA 173 


Notes: The aggregate of the bindus in each of the bhavas 
contributed by the 7 planets and the Lagna in all the 7 
Bhinnashtakavargas, is known as the Samudayashtakavarga (qqayqt- 
Baqi), The table above shows the figures of bindus in the 12 
bbavas for the Samudayashtakavarga of the Standard Horoscope. 
The Samudayashtakavarga is also known as Sarvashtakavarga 
( aafseay ), Vyuhashtakavarga ( SRIeeaT ), Akhilashtakavarga 
( area ),Pindashtakavarga ( firemaay )s Mahashtakavarga 
( aereaadi ) and Sakalashtakavarga ( qHorwaat ). 

The bindus mentioned in the second column represent the 
Sun’s Ashtakavarga figures contained in the 12 bbasas Mesha, 
Vrishabha, etc. Similarly, the bindus in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, etc. 
columns represent the Moon’s, Mars’, Mercury's, etc., Ashtakavarga 
figures contained in the 12 bbavas, Mesha, Vrishabha, etc. The 
figures in the last columm represent the Samudayashtakavarga in 
the same way. 


Chalita or Bhava Kundali:— 


432655 3=28 


In the above diagram each house contains 7 different 
figures and their total. The first set of figures in all the 12 bhavas 
is the Bhinnashtakavarga of the Sun. The second set the Moons, 
the third set Mars’, etc., and the last and the 7th set represents 
Saturn’s Bhinnashtakavarga. 


174 ARNT: cuap. XIV 


The total of the figures in each bhava is the Samudaya bindus 
for that bhava. The planets are placed in their respective bhavas. 
Thus, the Bhinnashtakavargas, the Samudayashtakavarga and the 
bbave positions of the planets can be studied from one diagram. 


| Sun |Moon| Mars | Merc | Jupi. | Venus| Sat. 
Bhinnashtakavarga | 5 3 6 5 | 4 
strength :- | | 
Samudayashtakavarga | 
creugth: | 27 | 19 | 38 | 27 | 19 | 


333323453572 23522 5222 371 


Tal Te saMEAA wh ga Heatexaaa7 | 


45 35 2 34446 72 3 152 6 6 1255 73 


Wal THR BATA MaaTAT T TTA 1AM 


22 123424247 3 23 33 4 4234363 


THEW TATE TH Te AACA: | 


3244 4334446153 55 26122 671 

Te PaerrawataaTT ah aH Mfawss Adsg 13 
Slokas 2,3 —The number of bindus donated in the 12 
bhavas by the seven planets and the Lagna in the Samu- 
dayashtakavarga beginning with the Sun are as follows:— 


1. The Sun - 3, 3, 3, 3, 2, 3, 4, 5, 3, 5, 7, 2 = 43 
2. The Moon - 2 3, 5, 2, 2, 5, 2, 2, 2 3, 7, 1 = 36 
3. Mars* - 4, 5, 3, 5, 2, 3, 4, 4, 4, 6 7, 2 = 49 
4. Mercury - 3 1 °5 2, 6 6 1, 2, 5, 5, 7, 3 = 46 
5. Jupiter @ ~ 2, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 4, 2, 4, 7, 3 = 36 
6. Venus - 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 2, 3, 4, 3, 6 3 = 40 
@ Saturn - 3 2, 4, 4 4, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 6 1 = 42 
& Teta - $2 RRL26L22821— 8 

24, 22, 29, 26, 25, 34, 19, 26, 26, 36, 54,16 = 337 


* The figures for Mars according to Varahamihira will be 
a ee ee oe ee ee ae Sy a es a 
@ The figures for Jupiter according to Varahamihira will be 
2 1, 1 2, 3 4 #2 4 #2 #4 «7, 4 
In order to find the Samudaya figures in each bhava 
without recourse to summing up their individual Ashtaka- 
varga figures the above mnemonic verses are used. 


Each half of the line of the verse refers to the number 
of bindus contributed by each of the 8 donors (the Sun, 
the Moon, etc., and the Lagna being the last) in order. To 
‘insert the proper figure in each bhava, the figure repre- 
sented by the consonant is put down. 


sl. 2-3 ASHTAKAVARGA 175 


For example =“ ara} afra} waTAAT” —is for the 
Sun. Beginning with the bhava occupied by the Sun, put 
3 (a1) in that bhava and 3 ( #) in the 2nd bhava from 
che Sun and 3 (7) in the 3rd bhava, etc. Adding up these 
8 figures given by the 7 planets and the Lagna in each bhava, 
the aggregate in each bhava is obtained. The sum of all 
the totals in the 12 bhavas will ba 337 ( ate) which 
is the same as given in Chap. II Verse No. 17. These 
figures in each bhava can be compared with those arrived 
at by adding bindus in the several Ashtakavargas as shown 
under Verse No. 1. (The readers should note that the 
figures of the above mnemonic verses represent the number 
of bindus donated and not the order of: places as given in 
the mnemonic verses in Chap. IT). 


aad a Sun he Mars |Merc. | Jupi. | Venus} Sat. | Lagnaj Total 


Mesra | 5/2 | 4/2]; 2) 2:41 7 | 8 
Vrishabha | 3 2 6 5 4 | 3 : 4 : 1 ; 28 
Mihuna | 5 | 2, 7} 5 ! 2 | 4; 3: 5 | 88 
Kaka | 7] 3 | 2] 7 | 4/3; 3/ 3 | 2 
Smh | 217/4/3;}7/6!4 4] 5 | 3 
Kanya | 3 1 5 3 3 | 3 3 4 5 27 
Tula g3i2}/aj1i2)2}4ie2]. 


Veischika | 3 | 3 | 5/5 | 2] 3:6! 6 | 33 
Dhanus 3 5 2 2 1. 1 | 1 18 
Makera | 2 2 3 6 2 3 | 3: 2 23 
Kumbha | 3 | 2 | stoi 3 ]42i2 | 2 
Meena 4 5 4 1 4 4 | 4 6 32 


176 TERA: cap, XIV 


PASAT ATT PTET | 
TA AT RASA: AYSIU 8 II 


Sloka 4— Insert in the 12 bhavas the bindus represented 
by the consonants of the verse“aiay afera),”for the Sun,“ 
etc.”, for the Moon, etc., etc., beginning with the bhava 
occupied by the respective planet and the Lagna. The ag- 
gregate of these figures in each bhava is the Samudayash- 
takavarga total of that bhava. (The grand total of the 
figures in all the bhavas is 337). 


2 RUTTEN 3 Hoag ITTa TAT | 
2 aieaaileasraanea aaa araahereneag U4 A 


Sloka 5— Planets in exaltation, their own, a friend’s 
house, in a Trikona, a Kendra (1st, 4th, 7th or 10th house) 
or an Upachaya house or powerful by position in benefic 
Vargas are not effective, if they are associated with less 
number of bindus (in the Samudayashtakavarga). 


4 qararah gear: 
y ataqafigaaarrra: | 
y aeaukatiean ae aay 
eee TeTR STRAT UL 


Sloka 6 — Planets, in the 12th, 6th, 8th or 7th house; or 
in debilitation, in Vargas of malefic and inimical planets ; 
or associated with the lord of the house occupied by 
Gulika, are obstructors (of good results). Those, asso- 
ciated with more bindus are capable of giving all im- 
portant good results. 


TAY TAhaetat reat TarseyaeaIs Iq * | 
THR Fe Alene A ae ANAT 1 9 


Sloka 7—Great teachers of Astrology say that bhavas 
containing more than 28 bindus in the Samudayashtaka- 
varga are auspicious. Those, having less than 28 bindus 
produce bad effects. 


i. 4-11 ASHTAKAVARGA 177 


MTHTATT 3—— 
raw fF safer targRanfaeaezar: «| 
saleaeaeg area stt auftaar: eae: Ul 
CHT MS TAN TATARSTAN AA | 
waa aeates GaR ATTA Ic UI 
Sloka 8 — When a bhava is transitted by many planets 
simultaneously and if that bhava contains the greater 
number of bindus, these planets multiply the good effects 
of that bhava. The nature of the effects will be according 


to the bhava position of this house from the houses occu- 
pied by the transitting planets at birth and their Karakatva. 


aqeqistrnfiesa: wcar Raat araeat wees | 
Tere We Wi cane ashe ai faa us 1 


Sloka 9— When planets in their transit pass through 
bhavas, containing more bindus in Samudayashtakavarga 
they produce good effects even when, these bhavas happen 
to be the 12th, 6th or 8th from the Lagna. 


afay afrns at ta Tabara | 
e 2 S 

Fateat Faas fata aeala | fo UI 
Sloka 10— When a bhava (rasi) containing the least 
number of bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga is rising, 
one should consult (Doctors) and take treatment for ail- 
ments; that will be the best time to incur debts because 
the same can be squared up soon. 


fazer asta af aaa waa a agar: 

AGT HANI HV: BAA ea Aa Taat Agee: | 
TACAMN AAG FT TAMAT IT KY 

ey aaa tseala Garant APRS IAAT ke Ut 


Sloka 11 — Bhavas containing 30 or more bindus give very 
good effects; those having 25 to 30 bindus are middling; 
while bhavas having less than 25 bindus produce bad 
effects. Bhavas containing 30 or more binduzs should be 


a ore 


178 BSH: CHAP. XIV 


chosen for all beneficial undertakings. Bhavas having less 
than 25 bindus should be avoided for travel, etc. In the 
matter of wedlock between bride and bridegroom if both 
have 30 or more bindus in their respective Janmarasis, the 
union will be prosperous; if both have less than 25 bindus, 


the union will be unhappy. 


ATT — 
wokarat seal saataaaagriq « | 
gare aaiafad afte Sarasa fe aertai: |) 
Bantes qatar: |: atkaieartaaneaan: | 
wearead aft Sadar: Hausa Gheara @ Fagen: I 
AAHMCHa — - 
mngsaanaanas aaasacawaars az aaa | 
aR qarwaaenaht aaasansala aq aaa | 
HSA IRT -— 
Rantrarar fey Were BAT: | 
qaftanedt Het FS FATA: TEA Il 


arrarz :— 
aTiaETa F | UTA BART: | 
TURAN WA AeA Aa: || 
MAMATGS YW UAASTA: TIA: | 
Asay walt gaara azaq lI 
frenarsaraq, :— 
franarraeant sana wahaaareagearas aay | 
aay qearaa gan a4 ag asiatas ead Ag | 
qamaenta saad TIE: 
CHIT Sala TATE FATA | 
Feat TEP jsenaret wt 
MAT SacI Aft aT Teaisagq | 2 tl 


Sloka 12—A minimum number of bindus has been pre- 
scribed for each of the 12 bhavas beginning with the 


sl. 12 ASHTAKAVARGA 179 


ed 


Lagna. If the bindus are less than the standard fixed, the 
bhavas do not prosper, and conversely, if the bindus are 
more, they prosper. The bindus are as follows :— 


The Lagna 25 7th house 19 
2nd house 22 8th, 24 
3rd_, 29 Oth, 29 
4th ,, 24 10th ,, 36 
Sth =, 25 llth =s,, 54 
6th _,, 34 12th ,, 16 


If the Lagna has more than 25 bindus, the person’s 

bearing, body, general appearance and other things con- 
nected with the Lagna are good. 
Notes : At the time of the great dissolution(Hgpeq)all the planets 
are at or near the beginning of Mesha and the 12 bbavas be- 
ginning with the Lagna contain 24, 22, 29, 26, 25, 34, 19, 26, 
26, 36, 54 and 16 bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga chart. But 
in the verse the Lagna is given 25, the 4th bhava 24, the 8th, 24 
and the 9th, 29. A possible explanation for these variations 
appears as follows :— 


According to the Sankhya Darshana (qjeqaafq) the five gross 
elements (qa¥at:)-carth, water, fire, air and ether ; the five subtle 
elements (TAAATA . smell, taste, form, touch and sound ; the five 
organs of perception(aqefegq)- eye, eat, nose, tongue and skin ; the 
five organs of action (aafeza)- voice, hands, feet and organs of ex- 
cretion and generation ; the mind (gq@q), intellect (gf), egoism 
(agar) and primal nature (safa) are the 24 eternal taitvas. 


Evolution begins when these are aspected by Purusha, the 25th 
tattva. 


Since birth is an evolution in the process of attaining the 
higher goal variously called Moksha, Nirvara, salvation, etc., the 
Lagna representing the birth is allotted 25 biwdus equal to the 
25 tattvas. This makes it equal to the 5th house, i.e., the house of 
Purva Punya and further Karma is necessary (for forward progress). 
The progress towards perfection depends on one’s penance ai lagae 
luck (or divine grace) represented by the 9th bhava and also on 
moral courage and prowess indicated by the 3rd bhava. These 
bbavas therefore have been strengthened with 29 biwdus each. The 
10th house, i.e., the house of action (Karma) is also well strengthen- 
ed with 36 bindus. The hindrances to the spiritual progress are 


180 | ACRTT cHAP. XIV 


(1) the family and material wealth (2nd bhava), (2) the relations 
and property (4th house) and (3) love and passion (7th house). 
Attachment to these, tics onc down to this material world. Hence 
the figures in respect of these bbavas are kept on a lower scale. 
The 6th bhava is the 9th from the Karma bhava and 10th from 
the 9th bhava which indicates success in undertakings. This bhava 
is therefore strengthened with 34 bindus. Finally, the 11ch house 
(house of gain) is well fortified with 54 biedus showing acquisi- 
tion of great merit, more spiritual than material and the 12th 
house is given the minimum as it represents loss, expenses, etc. 


qialtaqdad aaah aa 
Raa a Pragadhrard ota saree | 
ag Faq Raga ATT 
BIA WaT watea Fara: Ta 23 


Sloka 13 — If the 4th house has more than 24 bindus and 
is not aspected or occupied by malefics, or if the 2nd 
house is free from aspect or occupation by malefics and 
has more than 22 binedus; in either of these conditions, the 
person will inherit the ancestral property. 

Conversely, if these two bbavas are aspected or occu- 
pied by malefics and bindus are less than 24 and 22 respec- 
tively, the person will not inhcrit the ancestral property. 

When the 10th bhava has more than 36 bindus and 
has no connection with malefics, the person will lead a 
happy life with wealth earned by his own efforts. 

When the 11th bhava has 54 bindus and has no con- 
nection with malefics, wealth accrues to him without any 


effort. 
WY A TTAsa Tage seta ad fa: 
TUCATAGIIT: ISAT DA | 
BAUTZATS HY F TAY Peay AaSHTAT 
BM: HAGA HEAARHS AAA AAT (VN 


Sloka 14—- When the Lagna has more than 25 bindus or 
the 9th house has more than 29 bindus and each has no 
connection with malefics, the person will acquire hidden 


‘sl.-13-16 ASHTAKAVARGA 181 
wealth. (Treasure and in modern days money through 
lottery, sweepstakes, competitions, etc.). 

The good effects mentioned above will be noticeable 
after the age represented by the number of bindus in the 
Lagna. 

When the 12th house has dSindis less than the 11th 
house, the person becomes wealthy; conversely, when the 
12th bhava has more bindus than the 11th, he becomes 
poor. If the 11th house has more bindus than the 10th, 
the gain will be equal to or more than the effort put in; 
if the brmdus are less, the income is not up to the amount 
of effort put in. 


PrRaeaeayg: WITH Et TT UI: | 
aan Int yea wageaaeMsaeaeM: | 4 UI 


Sloka 15 — Bhavas prosper when they have the prescribed 
(or more) number of bivdus and are aspected or occupied 
by their respective lords or by benefics and have no associ- 
ation or aspect from malefics. Conversely, when any 
bhava has less bindus than the prescribed number and has 
an aspect from or occupation by malefics and is not con- 
nected with benefics, the effects of that bhava are quite 
the reverse. 


AMTaaoaIeyaqN ATTY 
frarnatra ararfts sey ay eae: | 


etteltey See TATA TATA 
TTC HAT A Ge Sa eM 1 2S 

Sloka 16 —In the Samudayashtakavarga add up the bindus 
in the Lagna, 2nd, 4th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses from, the 
Lagna; if this total is more than 164 ( faa), the person 
will be prosperous having income more than the expense. 
If it is less than 164, his income is less than the expense, 
and if it be equal to 164, income and expenditure will be 
equal. 

Find the total of the bindus in the 6th, 8th and 12th 
bhavas. If this total is less than 76 (ad), one has income 
greater than expenditure; if the total is greater than 76, 


182 SACRA: CHAP. XIV 


less income and more expenditure; if equal to 76, both 
equal. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— 1st-23; 2nd-32 ; 4th-27; 
Oth-26 ; 10th-32 ; and 11th 28 =: 178; and G6th-33 ; 8th-23 ; and 
12th 28 = 84. 


VATSARATHATAT TTT Asa 

STAT IAT HOA TATE | 
Rengranazabren-ateraeanearat 

ATUSHST Hoshi aA aaa a SaTSHT Ul V9 UI 


Sloka 17 —Find the sum of the bindus in the 1st, 4th, 
5th, 7th, 9th and 10th houses. These bhavas represent the 
inner-self of the person. If this sum is greater than the 
outer-self (the sum of the remaining 6 bhavas) the person 
will have contentment, learning, knowledge; and will be 
doing good deeds and charities. Conversely, the person 
will have worries and will be deceitful. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope : — 1st 33 3 4th 27 ; Sth 19 ; 
7th 18 ; 9th 26 and 10th 32 = 155 ; and 

2nd 32 ; 3rd 38; 6th 33 ; 8th 23; 11th 28 and 12th 28 = 182 


BMTVAG HOM Tae ATH 
TMIIITATATD AAA | 
mh ay Nee als Aged cat 
antes aS RIRIAATTAT CATTTH FAT Ut Re A 
Sloka 18 — The sum of bindus in the Lagna, 5th and 9th 
houses is known as Bandhu; that of 2nd, 6th and 10th 
houses as Sevaka; that of 3rd, 7th and 11th houses as 
Poshaka and that of 4th, 8th and 12th houses as Ghataka. 
If Poshaka figure is greater than Ghataka figure, the per- 
son will be wealthy. Conversely, if Ghataka figure is 
greater than Poshaka figure, the person will be poor. 
Notes: Intensity of richness and poverty depends upon the dis- 
parity of Poshaka and Ghataka figures. If Bandhu figure is 
gteater than that of Sevaka, the person has independant means of 
living and good relations. When Sevaka figure is in excess of 


sl. 17-19 ASHTAKAVARGA 183 


Bandhu figure the person has to serve (i.e., he may have a superior 
over him in whatever capacity he works). 


In the Standard Horoscope :— 


Bandhu :—1st 33, 5th 19, 9th 26 = 78 

Sevaka :—2nd 32, 6th 33, 10th 32 -= 97 
Poshaka :—3rd 38 ; 7th 18, 11th 28 = 84 
Ghataka :—4th 27, 8th 23, 12th 28 = 78 


meena anonead RaaaeaRaT 

HA TAMA 3: AAHHST: Ted TAA | 
arn: Aaaaraaaaa AiaTh aR 

Raaang Fe afaakraerat zara 28 tl 


Sloka 19— Find out the four units in order of the four 
directions:— 


The East: Ist, 12th, 11th dhavas. 
The South: 10th, 9th, 8th os 
The West: 7th, 6th, 5th 3 
The North: 4th, 3rd, 2nd ss 


When there are more binmdus in a unit, the effects as 
shown in the direction will be good (favourable). When 
there are less bindus, the effects will be bad (adverse). 


If the direction represented by the unit containing the 
maximum number of bindus has planets also in those 
bhavas in exaltation, own house, etc., there will be com- 
plete success in undertakings (started) in that direction. 


There will be acquisition of wealth from the direction 
indicated by the lord of the 2nd house. Death will take 
place in the direction indicated by the lord of the 8th house. 


Branatara — 

Prankers vara waieaaeaes | 
qefrh are aenaa waneate atid sta: 
BYCTAIT i— 


ates and Rarquayt atv: | 
adg daadg ani asiaeaear | 


184 BAT: CHAP. XIV 


Rare Roma Aaarala faaraz | 
wyaveq era Beas ANG 


Te at aft aft Weaat Rat ary 

flat fad zed azged aad ANTM Re Ul 
Sloka 20 — It will be auspicious to have a cow-house, land, 
agricultural operations, etc., in the direction indicated by 
the best bhava (containing the highest number of bindus). 
Wealth (money, etc.,) deposited in the direction of the 
bhava indicated by the least number of bidus, will be 
lost soon. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the cardinal directions for 
ptosperity are (1) the North (Brihat-jacaka) ; (2) the South 
(Prasnamarga). 


WAR TOATAANAAT AAA TAT THAT | 
fra gt arfaargal sta: aecetraet AT Ret 


Sloka 21— A person will get a royal vehicle, wealth, son, 
great knowledge, etc., after attaining the age represented 
by the number of binds in the Lagna. The above effect 
will bz visible only when (in the natal chart) there are 
combinations (Yogas) capable of giving these results and 
not otherwise. 

Notes: If the number of dizdus in the Lagna and the 11th house 
are identical and cach above 30, then, at or after the age 
represented by that figure, the person will be the recipient of 
some special honours from the King, and will acquire considerable 
wealth, etc. 


ha’ hat) 

fend aeataaaey aenerearlaat Tat | 

OH WAR TASUAAT AAVMTIAT: THAT UR 
Sloka 22 —Whien the lord of the 12th house is in the 
Lagna in Makara or Kumbha rasi and the lords of the Ist 
and Sth houses are weak, the person will live as many 
years as there are bindus in the Lagna. 
Notes : The above seems to be correct only in Makara Lagna for, 
in Kumbha, Saturn will be in his Moolatrikona. 


sl, 20-27 ASHTAKAVARGA 185 


MATH TAT TAY TAY TANITA: | 
fadeairca: arasatar aseharal AAT: HRI 


Sloka 23— When the lord of the Lagna is in the 4th 
house and the lord of the 4th is in the Lagna and if there 
are more than 33 bindus in each of these houses, the 
persons will have kingly wealth and be lords of men. 


aeargaararay aaa | 
AAAS FT Usd TULA TAA Ut Re UI 


Sloka 24 — When there are more than 30 bindus in each 
of the 3 bhavas, viz., 1st, 4th and 11th, the person will 
prosper after his 40th year and will have personality, 
abundant wealth and kingdom. 


mea aganazaratean 
TPIT Tay | 
qeeha ae falaacan- 
Wea W BS A aalsa|ST: 112 U1 


Sloka 25 — If the number of bindus in each of the bhavas 
beginning with the 4th and ending with the 9th is between 
25 to 33. ( faa: — Gods), the person will be carried in 
palanquin borne by men, i.e., will be as rich as Kubera, 
after completing 28 years of age. 

Notes: Kubera is azatgqraq: and lord of the 9 creasurcs. 


Sara TRAY AH TenaarqTaaae | 
ATT SAN AACA Aral Ta TadeaTAaA: 1-2 U 


Sloka 26 — When Jupiter, in exaltation with 40 bindus, 
is in the 4th bhava and the Sun is in Mesha in the Lagna, 
the person will be a king with a command over one lakh 
horses (cavalry). 


qaaaeaa Feat Wy hs aly state | 
SVS WA SAT ATW Aa: AIAN: ATA: U1 Bo I 


Sloka 27 — When the Lagna has 40 bindus and Jupiter is 
in Dhanus, Venus in Meena, Mars in Makara and Saturn 


186 eR: cHAP. XIV 


in Kumbha, the person will be an emperor blessed with 
good fortune of every kind. 


TTMAIRAASAG SATA 
wate af Ratt enzeraret Tatsty | 
aaned araaRetat 
fafanragacasqded ATM Re UI 


Sloka 28 — In the Samudayashtakavarga, if the number of 
bindus in the 11th house is more than that in the 10th house 
and the number of bimdus in the 12th house is less than 
that in the 10th house and if the figure in the Lagna ex- 
ceeds the figure in the 12th house, the person born will 
enjoy life and wealth. When it is otherwise, the native 
will be poor (cf. verse No. 25). 
sera ca s— 
MARIA ALE TEA SATBTS NS egTaM | 
PRAT eA sa: Bh AaaMAeaT: | 
Reaea! — 
AAMAS BA Sra saz | 
ay ates oA MaradaeaT ii 
faaeaa -— 
ARTA SA Hearne) BTA: x | 
aeq Vas BH ATATATaTHAAT II 


fir ¢ Aran Aaarkrarderay | 
TEMAS Agar STRATA 1 2S 1 
SURE F GATeta ATT | 

FI FIRS Ja ToTAAAat TIT: | Zo 


Slokas 29-30: The prosperity of a person should be 
judged from the excess of the number of planets occupying 
their exaltation, own or Trikona houses ; from the excess 
of the number of bindus in the eleventh bhava over that of 
the twelfth in the Samudayashtakavarga ; from the Sunabha* 


1When (one or more) planets other than the Sun occupy the 
2nd house from the Moon, the Yoga is called Sunabha. 


sl. 28 — 32 ASHTAKAVARGA 187 


and other Yogas and also from other Dhana (wealth- 
giving) Yogas. One’s happiness and misery should be 
gleaned through the strength and weakness of Jupiter, 
Venus, and the Sun at the time of birth. 


Tak wranfrasaTHe: GeATAy TAT 
amt TaTeTd TEU ASEH 
at atanamahqanegel ¢ Tala 
PATHAK: AAT SY ATMA 1-22 A 


Sloka 31: If Rahu is in the 6th, 8th or the 12th house in 
the natal chart, a person may suffer from snake-bite or food- 
poison at the age represented by the number of bindus in 
the house (occupied by him). This is all the more probable, 
if Rahu transits the above bhava at that time. 


There may be injury by weapons at the age indicated 
by the number of bindus in the house occupied by Mars. 


At the age indicated by the number of bindus in the 
house occupied by Saturn, there will be sickness, sorrow, 
etc. 


GarasaaTd AAT: Bteahra- 
Bla aaa PAaTaAeraa: aa | 
Rarsqraqkomaararn TaaTezs 
TIGAUART TACIT HHTTT 11 22 UI 


Sloka 32: At the age represented by the number of bindus 
in the house occupied by Jupiter, one may expect a child, 
wealth, etc. 


In the case of Venus, one may expect marriage or 
marital happiness at the corresponding age. In the case of 
Mercury learning of science, intellectual expansion and 
praise from scholars may be expected at the age correspond- 
ing to the number of bindus in the bhava occupied by him. 
In this way, the Samudayashtakavarga shows the period at 
which the effects due to the Karakatva of the planet will 
be experienced by the native. 


188 ACT: CHAP. XIV 


All the above results (as referred in this and the 
previous verse) are to be predicted only when, there are 
indications according to the horoscope. 


Hage WsTs RT — 
aasahaaea g aes AraraTay | 
WY RATT AATTy Seas FE ar 
dlameaea TaerarT se Aisa Sas saTzA: It 83 A 


Sloka 33: Add the number of bindus in the 4 bhavas 
represented by :— 

1. Meena to Mithuna 

2. Kataka to Tula 

3. Vrischika to Kumbha 

These represent the 3 stages in a man’s life. If the 
Ist portion contains more bindus than the remaining two, 
the person’s first stage of life will be happy. If the middle 
portion contains more bindus than the remaining two pot- 
tions, the middle stage of life will be happy and if the last 
portion has the maximum, the last stage will be happy. 


Whichever portion has the least number of bindus, 
that stage of life will bring in sickness and sorrow. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— 

Meena to Mithuna :—32, 28, 28 and 33 = 121 (ist Khanda) 
Kataka to Tula :—32, 38, 27 and 19 = 116 (2nd Khanda) 
Vrischika to Kumbha :— 33, 18, 23 and 26 == 100 (3rd 
Khanda). 
Sarasa s— 

wed WHT TaAIAAINagIAA | 

mary waqaTaalala sas SPaaraswAge area BH | 

TR :— 
Herd frgataté saat se aa: oA: | 
wale atiarat ana FAT qT: (I 


Sl. 33-35 ASHTAKAVARGA 189 


auld wafired a aeittaere: dad | 
THT sea AaAIN=PAT II 
avert fiafiea zaraqaaaTaat | 
qanganled US Haat I II 
drags gi a4 faiacs aq | 
PAIRS MAT TMTAAAT |I 
Sa :— 
asad Try eranead feed Maerag 
qTAsawTHAe Wiad fafasaq i 
waar s— 
ay avssfral ta grey ast sida | 
a4 dal a at war PaMSAATITTI II 


Regt waar Rearend fe ad BR=aia at: | 
qe fet ge args: GTA 2 I 


Sloka 34: Omit the bindus in the 12th and 8th houses 
altogether. Amd total the number of bindus in the remain- 
ing bhavas (rasis) as before. 

If the sums of bivdus in the three units are equal to 
one another, the effect on the life of a person will be mixed. 
If the total of b¢vdus in one unit is less than the other two, 
the person will have miseries during that period of life. 

If the total of bivdus in any one unit is greater than 

the other two, the life of the person will be prosperous 
during that portion of life. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope, omitting the bivdus in the 
8th and 12th bharas the totals are (1) Ist Khanda (32, 28, 33) = 
93; (2) 2nd Khanda (32, 38, 27, 19) == 116; and (3) 3rd 
Khanda (33, 18, 26) = 77. The total 286 divided by 3 gives 95 
average for each Khanda. 


aearared ae went fire ferah 

Bes TIAAet SANT ETT | 
Regt ake TeRATATIATY TIAL 

freaked vate ageeitara: sara: tt 34 I 


190 AVR: CHAP. XIV 


Sloka 35: When the benefic planets are posited in a unit, 
that portion of life will be happy. When there are both 
malefic and benefic planets in a unit, the effect on life 
during that unit’s portion will be mixed depending upon 
the strength, etc., of such planets. The period of that unit 
which contains malefic planets only will be unhappy and 
full of troubles. 

When there are less bindus in a unit, there will be 
sickness, torment and the person will talk bad things. In 
the unit where there are many bindus, the person will enjoy 
abundant wealth during that period of life. 


Hea WrRTaANAsand FT TAG | 


aoafeeraeans Ta: BATA IAT 1) Et 
Sloka 36: Find the sum of bindus in — 

1. Kendras (ist, 4th, 7th and 10th bhavas) ; 

2. Panapharas (2nd, 5th 8th and 11th bhavas); 

3. Apoklimas (3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th bhavas). 

If the Kendras contain the maximum bindus, the first 
stage of life will be happy. If Panapharas have the 
maximum bindus, the middle stage and if Apoklimas have 
the maximum bindus, the final stage of life will be happy. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope (1) Ist Khanda (Kendras — 
33, 27, 18, 32) = 110; (2) 2nd Khanda (Panapharas — 32, 19, 
23, 28) = 102; and (3) 3rd Khanda (Apoklimas — 38, 33, 26, 
28) = 125. 

HARTA s— 

oy GaneTAINaeTg DA AAA II 

Saag weaMTIMeA AKA | 

SATAN ANAT YMA THAT II 
Devakeralam and other works :— 

The bhavas are divided into 3 sections, known as 
Khandas, (units, etc.) of 4 bhavas each. According to some, 
they are from :— 

1. Mesha to Kataka ; Simha to Vrischika and Dhanus 

to Meena ; 


2. ys is » » less bindus in the 8th 
and 12th bhavas : 


sl. 36 ASHTAKAVARGA 191 


3. Meena to Mithuna, Kataka to Tula and Vrischika 
to Kumbha ; 
4. Lagna to the 4th bhava, 5th to the 8th bhava and 
9th to the 12th bhava ; 
5. 12th to the 3rd bhava, 4th to the 7th bhava and 8th 
to the 11th bhava ; 
6. Kendra houses, Panaphara houses, and Apoklima 
houses. 
But the majority of the Acharyas follow the third 
method, i.e, Meena to Mithuna, etc. When the total of 
the bindus in the first Khanda is the maximum, there 
will be happiness in the first part of life. When the second 
Khanda has the maximum bindus, the middle part of life 
will be the happiest. When the third Khanda has the 
maximum, the last part of life is the happiest. Whichever 
Khanda contains the maximum bindus and is occupied by 
benefic planets in that part, that portion of life will be the 
best and the happiest. If the bindus are middling and both 
malefics and benefics are in those bbavas, the effect is 
a mixed type. When the number of bindus is the least in a 
Khanda and a greater number of malefics are there, that 
portion of life will be the most unhappy, causing much 
misery, etc. 

That Khanda which has the least number of bindus 
and has malefics in debilitation or in inimical houses, in that 
part of the life one may undergo royal displeasure such as 
conviction, imprisonment, loss of wealth, migration to a 
foreign place perforce, etc. That Khanda having more 
bindus with benefic planets occupying exaltation, own 
houses and friendly houses, in that portion of life, brings 
the native all kinds of comforts, happiness, etc. 

1. When the third Khanda is greater than the second 
Khanda and the second is greater than the first Khanda, it 
is called Kahala Yoga (esq). Happiness, pros- 
perity, etc., go on increasing as age advances. 

2. When the second Khanda is greater than the third 
and first Khandas, it is called Maddhala Yoga (aqua ). 
One is fond of music, fun, entertainments and gets happi- 
ness and prosperity in the middle part of life. . 


e 


192 ACHAT: CHAP. XIV 


3. When all the 3 Khandas are more or less equal to 
one another, it is called Bheri Yoga ( 4aatq ) or Sarvanga 
Yoga ( aainqt ). One gets all comforts throughout life. 

4. When the second Khanda is less than the first and 
third Khandas, it is called Damara Yoga ( sq), One 
gets happiness and prosperity in the first and last portions 
of life. 

5. When the first Khanda is the greatest, second 
Khanda is the least and third Khanda is in between, it is 
called Veena Yoga (tm), 

6. When the first Khanda is the highest, and the third 
Khanda is the least, it is called Airavata Yoga ( taaaata ). 

7. When the first Khanda is the smallest and the second 
and third Khandas are equal to one another, it is called 
Vasi Yoga ( afaat7). 


we Aare aeare I anigeaney aewHiiSy + | 
Freed TTA AT HA TAT ATT AAT TATA AT; (1 RU 
Ted aaa fis var aaa | 


faster arfed HAV Tat afeeas aR: Tara 2 I 


Slokas 37,38 — To find the good or bad effects of a parti- 
cular bhava at a particular period take the Shodhyapinda 
of the Samudayashtakavarga bindus. Multiply it by the 
corresponding figure for that particular bhava and divide 
the product by 27 to find the remainder. 

When Saturn passes through the asterism indicated 

by the remainder (counted from Aswini), there will be 
destruction of the effects of that bhava. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :—Ist bhava :—Shodhyapinda 
of Samudayashtakavarga 324 x 33. (bindus in the 1st house) = 
10692 divided by 27 leaves remainder O. Revati, Aslesha and Jyeshta 
are the asterisms for Saturn’s transit to cause the destruction of 
the effects of that bhava. 

10692 divided by 12 leaves balance 0. Meena, Kataka and 
Vrischika are the rasis for Saturn’s transit to give the same results. 
Similar is the case for the 6th bhava because the bindus contained 
in it are 33. 


sl. 37-39 ASHTAKAVARGA 193 


Similar calculations should be made for the remaining bbavas 
to find the Nakshatras and the rasis for Saturn’s transit. The 
Shodhyapinda of Samudayashtakavarga is 324 which is divisible by 
27 and 12. So the arrived at asterisms and rasis are the same for 
all the bbavas in this particular example. 


Samudayashtakavarga — Trikona and Ekadhipatya Shodhana of 
bindus :— 


| | Planets 
1 | Bhavas 
3 | 8 | 9 | 10)/11/ 12! 1 | 2 |representes 
: | by rasis 
{ i 
33 | 32 | 38 | 33 | 18 | 23 | 26 | 32 | 28 | 28 | Bindus 
| | 15 Mandala 
9 9 6/1} 2|8\ 4) 4 | reduction 
: | (12) # 
{ | ’ 
7, o}0;0),5]1 us hasilig eg 7a as Wa eee 
nr ae | ; | 
{ | : 
rfolojojsjols|s|ojo|s 0 | ’Stodkana 
a 


aeqafie = 25 ; afities =174; ages = 150; ateafqoe = 324; 


Tea aaa a Keneredt aaa aera +1 
HAAG Wes Sitar Tears: mea: DAT 12S tt 


Sloka 39 — The same product when divided by 12 and the 
remainder counted from Mesha gives the rasi and its trines, 
which when transitted by Saturn spoils the effects of the 
bhava under consideration. Repeat the same process with 
the Shodhyapinda of rekbas (malefic points) and find out 
the asterisms and the rasis as before. When Saturn transits 
them good effects promised by. that bhava are experienced. 
Notes: 1n the Standard Horoscope :—1st bhava : Shodhyapinda 
of Samudayashtakavarga of rekhas 239x23 (rekbas in the Ist 
house) = 5497; divided by 27 leaves remainder 16. Vishakha, 


* Refer Chap. xv Verse Nos. 24, 25. 
ay. F, 23 


2f 


194 STOR: CHAP. XIV 


Purvabhadrapada and Punarvasu are the asterisms for Saturn’s 
transit to give good results as promised by the bhava. 

5497 divided by 12 leaves remainder 1. Mesha, Simha 
and Dhanus are the rasis for Saturn’s transit to give the same 
results. Similar is the case for the 6th bhava (23 rekbas), 

In the same manner calculations should be made for the 
remaining bhavas to find the Nakshatras and the rasis for Saturn’s 
transit for good effects. 


BPTI el Ges Ta TNT TH | 
afaarnsaat Rents ATAaATTTTASTAT FRAN Be Ul 


Sloka 4@ — Find the product of the number of bindus after 
the Trikonashodhana in the bhava occupied by the lord of 
the 8th bhava and the number of bindus in the 8th bhava 
before the reductions and divide the product by 12. The 
remainder counted from Mesha bhava (rasi or its trines) 
and the solar month corresponding to that, causes afflic- 
tions to the native. — 


Similarly, for parents and other relations, one should 

take the respective bhavas and their 8th houses. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— For one’s own death :—8 
(the number of bindus in the bhava occupied by the lord of the 
8th house, in the Samudayashtakavarga after Trikonashodhana) 
x23 the number of bindus in the 8th house = 184 divided by 
12 leaves balance 4. Kataka (Vrischika and Meena) are the rasis 
for the Sun's transic at the time of the death of the native. 

For the father :— The 9th house from the Lagna represents 
the father’s house. The lord of the 8th house from the 9th house 
will be the 4th bhava lord from the Lagna. The number of bisdus 
remaining in the bhava (after Trikonashodhana) occupied by the 
lord of the 4th house multiplied by the number of bindus in the 
4th house (before the reductions) and the product divided by 12, 
will give the required month for the death of the father. 

Kumbha is the bhava representing the father’s house. Its 
8th house is Kanya which is occupied by its own lord. 

O (the number of bindus remaining after Trikonashodhana) 
x27. .°, product 27 divided by 12 leaves 3, i.e., Mithuna (Tula 
and Kumbha). 


sl, 40-43 ASHTAKAVARGA 195 

For the mother :—Kanya is the bhava representing the 
mother’s house. Its 8th house is Mesha. Its lord Mars is in the 
Simha house. 


0 (the number of bindus remaining after Trikonashodhana) x 28. 
.”. product 28 divided by 12 Jeaves 4, ie. Kataka (Vrischika and 
Meena). 


HAASAN TF TATA | 

aa aqnadaraerernata 11 82 Ul 
RAMREATTSY FATT TA | 

ay aa snetarraraiorrats ar i 8 4 
waaa Rordtaanaztes | 
VATEATNT AIAASARAT lt ¥3 UI 


Slokas 41-43 — Find the sum of bindus from the house 
occupied by Saturn to the house occupied by the lord of 
the 8th house from Saturn (both inclusive). Multiply 
this total by the number of bindus in the 8th house from 
Saturn and divide the product by 12. The remainder 
counted from Mesha house shows the solar month of death 
of the native. It may happen even when the Sun transits 
its trines. In this manner, one can find out the probable 
solar months from the respective Karaka houses when the 
deaths of father, mother, etc., may take place. 


The Lagna and its 8th house for one’s self and the 
house occupied by the Sun and its 8th house for the father, 
etc., may be taken and the respective months calculated. 
Notes: 1n the Standard Horoscope to find the month of death 
of the native :— 


Saturn is in Makara and the 8th house from that is Simha. 
Its lord the Sun is in Kanya (in bhava). The sum of bindus will 
be 23, 26, 32, 28, 28, 33, 32, 38, 27 = 267x38 (bindus in the 
8th house from Saturn) ; Product 10146, divided by 12 leaves 
remainder 6, i.e., Kanya or its trines. 


This multiplication can be simplified by casting out as many 
twelves as possible from each rasi figure and then summing up. 


196 TERT: cHap. XIV 


Same calculation :— 11, 2, 8, 4, 4, 9, 8, 2, 3 = 51x2 (38— 36) 
== 102 divided by 12 leaves remainder 6. 

To find the month of death of the father :— 

The 9th house from the Lagna is Pitrusthana which is. 
Kumbha. The 8th house from this is Kanya and its lord Mer- 
cury is in Kanya. Counting (casting out 12s) Kumbha to Kanya 
(both inclusive) 2. 8, 4, 4, 9, 8, 2, 3 = 40. The bindus in the 
8th house from Kumbha are 3 (27—24). Therefore 40 x3 =120, 
divided by 12 leaves remainder 0. When the Sun transits Meena 
or its trines the father’s death may happen. 

To find the month of death of the mother :— 

Kanya the 4th house from the Lagna is the mother’s house. 
The lord of the 8th house from that, i.e... Mars is in Simha rast. 
Counting from Kanya to Simha 73 (casting out 12s) x 4 (28-24) 
= 292, divided by 12 leaves balance 4. When the Sun transits 
Kataka or its trines, death of the mother may take place. 

Similar calculations for the months of death for other relations 
may be made from the positions of the respective Karakas. 


mangas 4 aisds alsa aaa FI 
MANTA ATRL aT aeRIST aT EMEA: ala: 1 Be Nt 


Sloka 44—The sum of the bindus from Saturn to the 
house occupied by the lord of the 8th house should be 
found out. Multiply it by the number of bindus in the 
8th house and divide the product by 12. The remainder 
shows the solar month counted from Mesha house (or its 
trines) for affliction to the native. 

Notes: Similarly the solar month of death for the father can be 
calculated from the 9th house. 

In the Standard Horoscope Saturn occupies Makara, the 8tlr 
house from the Lagna is Makara and its lord Saturn is posited 
there. Therefore the number of bindus are 4 (28-24) X 4 (28-24). 
Their product 16 divided by 12 leaves remainder 4. Kataka, 
Vrischika and Meena are the months for the death of the native. 
Similarly, one can calculate for the father and the other relations. 


warrant TER: AI ATed SENT | 
THUS TT aS HOY TT TSA get aT 8s 1 


sl. 44-49 ASHTAKAVARGA 197 


Wale BAAKS A SAINT | 
ardiemraaarad que aternd Fala VS I 


Slokas 45, 46 — Multiply by 7, the total of biwdus from the 
Lagna to the house occupied by Saturn (both inclusive) and 
divide the product by 27 and find the remainder. When the 
asterism indicated by the remainder (counted from Aswini) 
is transitted by any one of the malefics, the native suffers 
from diseases, miseries, etc. If at the same time other 
malefics transit the trine asterisms of the arrived one, the 
evil effects will be on a larger scale. .. 

Similar will be the effects in respect of transit of malefic 
planets through the asterism arrived from the sum of bindus 
from Saturn to the Lagna (both inclusive) ; and in respect 
of Mars to the Lagna and the Lagna to Mars (both 
inclusive). 

In the case of a benefic planet, count the number of 

bindus from the house occupied by the planet to the Lagna 
and vice versa. Make similar calculations. When a bene- 
fic planet transits one of these two asterisms, good results 
may be expected. (If at the same time other benefics also 
transit the trine asterisms of the arrived ones, the good 
effects will be on a larger scale). 
Notes : Some are of the opinion that when the arrived at asterism 
is cransitted by a malefic and if that malefic is posited in either 
the 5th or 9th house from the Lagna in the natal chart, the evil 
effects will be on a large scale. 


TART AAI HA HET 3 | 
AAT ATMA ITMTCHEA | 89 UI 
aaa 8 Bes aT Marga | 

ad aeahe ward ataTEteTAT TAI Ve II 
Tat FaTAATAey TA AIT | 
garagarcis ward arr AAs: 1 8S UI 


Slokas 47-49 — Find the sum of bindus in the Samudayash- 
takavarga from the Lagna to the house occupied by Satutn 


198 aTeHRT: cHap. XIV 


(both inclusive). Multiply this by 7 and divide the product 
by 27. At the age represented by the quotient, a person 
suffers from disease or misery. Similarly, find out the quo- 
tient for the figures from Saturn to the Lagna. Repeat the 
same process for Mars and Rahu. 

In the same manner find out the years represented by 

the quotients for the benefic planets separately. In those 
years one may expect without doubt, issue, wealth, happi- 
ness, etc. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope : The Lagna to Saturn :—The 
sum of bindus (33, 32, 38, 27, 19, 33, 18, 23) = 223 x7 = 
1561; divided by 27, quotient is 57 and the remainder is 22, When 
any malefic planet passes through Sravana or during the 57th year 
of life, the native may suffer evil results. 

Saturn to the Lagna :— The sum of bindus (23, 26, 32, 28, 28, 
33) = 170x7 = 1190 ; divided by 27, quotient is 44 and remainder 
is 2, Bharani and 44th year of life. 

The Lagna to the Sun :—130x7 = 910; divided by 27, 
quotient 33 and remainder 19. Moola and 33rd year of life. 

The Sun to the Lagna :—267x7 == 1869; divided by 27, 
quotient 69 and remainder 6. Ardra and 69th year of life. 

The Lagna to Mars :—103x7 = 721; divided by 27, quo- 
tient 26 and remainder 19. Moola and 26th year of life. 

Mars to the Lagna :— 305x7 = 2135 ; divided by 27, quo- 
tient 79 and remainder 2, Bharani and 79th year of life. 

The Lagna to Rahu :—~ 309x 7 = 2163; divided by 27, quo- 
tient 80 and remainder 3. Krittika and 80th year of life. 

Rahu to the Lagna :— 89 x 7 = 623 ; divided by 27, quotient 
23 and remainder 2. Bharani and 23rd year of life. 

The Lagna to the Moon :—The sum of bindus (33, 32, 
38, 27, 19) = 149x7 = 1043; divided by 27, quotient is 38 
and the remainder is 17. Wher any benefic planet passes through 
Anuradha or during the 38th year of life the native may get issuc, 
wealth, happiness, etc. 

The Moon to the Lagna :—240 x7 == 1680; divided by 27, 
quotient 62 and remainder 6. Ardra and 62nd year of life. 


..For Jupiter and Venus the same years and asterisms as for. 
the Moon. 


sl. 50-52 ASHTAKAVARGA 199 


The Lagna to Mercury :— Same as for the Sun, i.e., Moola 
and 33rd year of life. 

Mercury to the Lagna :— Same as for the Sun, ie., Ardra 
and 69th year of life 

When there are indications of good and bad results in the 
same year or during the transit over the same asterism by bene- 
fics and malefics, the effects will be of mixed nature, the nett re- 
sult being that of the most powerful planet. 

Jataka-parijata says that after che multiplications and divisions, 
remainder should be taken into consideration. When a particular 
planet passes through that asterism, good or bad results accrue, 
while Phaladeepika takes the quotient for the same product and 
says that similar results will follow in the running year of life 
of the native as represented by the quotient. 


Saray : — 
PUTT CAMARA IATA FRAT 
oA aay sara Tals cagqearsah Tareas: | 
wagered fatigamnated fea— 
ala af sen Aflaguadiaretafanse || 
Hara aanaaateer 7 fragt | 
gags Hear Tha RAT Ye 
aad TTT STs aq | 
aay eter Tavs THTTTT 4 
Slokas 50,51 — Total up the bindus from the house occu- 
pied by Mars to the Lagna (both inclusive). Calculate as 
before and find out the year (represented by the quotient). 
In that year, there will be apprehensions of diseases or 
death, if Mars is associated with a malefic planet in the 
natal chart. One should avoid that bhava (for all auspicious 
ceremonies) during the closing months of that year. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mars to the Lagna—305 X7= 
2135; divided’ by 27, gives 79th year of life. At that age the 
native will suffer from diseases. 


AUSMEHay Hala SISTT ITEAA | 
anand acttanrenge: HARTA 42H 


200 STRAT: cuap, XIV 


Sloka 52 — In the Samudayashtakavarga table note the num- 
ber of bindus in the Lagna and the 8th bhava. Similarly, 
in the Chandralagna (the bhave occupied by the Moon) and 
its 8th bhava. If the number of bindus in the respective 
Lagna is greater than the bindus in the corresponding 8th 
bhava, the person will be long-lived. If the number of 
bindus in both the bhavas are equal, a middle life. If the 
Lagna bhava has less bindus than its corresponding 8th 
bhava, the person is short-lived. 


TATE RET SAISAT CAT | 
FU TARGA TA eerETAG 1143 A 


Sloka 53 — The death of the native may take place when 
the rising sign is :—(a) the 8th rast from the Lagna, or 
(b) the 8th rast counted from the Moon, or (c) the rasé 
(bhava) containing the least number of bindus in the 
Samudayashtakavarga. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the 8th rasi from, (a) the 
Lagma is Makara ; (b) the Moon is Vrishabha ; and (c) rasé con- 
taining the least number of bindus is Dhanus. 


aazernt Tay FateelA Ta: +1 

Fee YI FA TMAH 48 UI 
TAT TAH THIET AIT + 

dar Freer: earfaaged wetssve: 1) 4 UI 
WITT WTA AY? AAA TIA: +! 

MOY F TAY qaareey TIT 1 4G Il 
ss SH SHA * 

We TAT TTT HE AA! I 49 II 
caftadeday ef F8 aA +1 
TAATRAHVAT ot ATH AASIH A Ye I 
TARA Tea IATA «1 
TRANS SMA aeaa TA WS 1 


sl. 53-67 ASHTAKAVARGA 201 


aaa zor ala: eretahaTs +1 
GSTS F Foe? Arar PTI SA U1 Ro I 
fee zara Tagsaat +! 

fraud wyatt Gad aeaTATT 1&2 1 
oaaaead zt ama a aa: +1 

daged: aafateaerorastt: A: 1&2 I 
qahratiaat tenhrehrdfera * 
addatafate: cacaaaad: Fz 1 83 
WARE WIHT AVIS That: 1 
fest ae Bart aaa fra qarat gary 1 G8 
AMAT IATA Tat ARs | x! 

SRY ARTE Ts AAT AANA 1&4 
SAAT TIAA | 

Gathers Aig AST: BAN ate i SF UI 
Hella SIMA TT: Vet a AAMT | 

OF TITAS CMA TNT |! G9 UI 


Slokas 54-67 — On any desired day find the positions of the 
planets in the Zodiac. From the Bhinnashtakavargas of the 
natal chart find the number of bindus in each bhava occu- 
pied by the 7 planets on the day in question or on the 
day of Nirayana solar ingress and find the total of the 
bindus associated with all the 7 planets. The day-to-day 
or the monthly effects will be as follows according to the 
number of bindus obtained :—(14) detriment to Dharma 
(duty), wealth and happiness ( firaferfi:); (15) great 
misfortune ; (16) royal (Government) displeasure ; (17) 
loss (destruction of everything); (18) loss of wealth ; 
(19) distress due to perverted ideas and through relations ; 
(20) expense and quarrel; (21) great mental anguish ; 
(22) humiliation, failure in undertakings and _pitiable 
condition (%4); (23) detriment to’Dharma (duty) and 


202 eA: cHap. XIV 
wealth ; (24) unexpected loss of money; (25) loss of 
ready cash (rolling stock); (26) quarrel; (27) balanced state 
in all matters ; (28) inflow of wealth ; (29) respect from 
public (30) royal recognition, virtuous deeds and happi- 
ness ; (31) wealth ; (32) special gifts and honours ; (33) 
attainment of everything and great profits; (34 to 56) 
attainment of all kinds of prosperity, wealth, etc., the 
magnitude increasing proportionately according to the 
number of bindus. 

Thus, the day-to-day prosperity or otherwise has been 
mentioned by the sages. This important Ashtakavarga 
method has been taught by God Shiva in the Brahmayamala 
to understand the effects of the Dasas and the day-to-day 
results. 

Whatever effects are given in the foregoing verses 
according to the Ashtakavarga bindus, they will be two- 
fold when the planets are in their exaltation, own house or 
Upachaya houses and proportionately reduced if they are 
otherwise. 

In this manner the effects of all the 12 bhavas should 
be judged. 

Notes: Parasara gives the monthly or day-to-day effects begin- 
ning from the total of 7 bindus up to 40 bindus in detail and 
from 40 up to 56 collectively. 

He has prescribed some propitiatory rites to be performed to 
ward off the evil effects. 


Some of the commentators such as those of Manasagari, Para- 
sara, Jataka-Chandrika, etc., have applied the above results as the 
yearly effects, considering the Lagna as the first ycar; 2nd house, 
the second year; 3rd house, the third year; and so on. Again 
the cycles of 12 years are to be taken, i.e., the Lagna will repre- 
sent 13th, 25th, 37th, 49th, Glst, cte., years of life. 


GUae :— 
aaa AMAA ARIMA, * | 
Warpagd wear aa FI 
Vas: aahtas aa aio wr « | 
gary afars cere at faeadat I 


ASHTAKAVARGA 203- 


agtsifada: a ate wegqaat at: * | 
aRqeaena CaeEAS Te UI 
Varia: acifaad aast yay = | 
aaaan: dah wi <aE_aTae II 
Tate: aernnieasia ara: = | 
SNZUISANA HI THIBAT II 
Be: oeatanrd a ordeal wat: & | 
feaqe: coigai caemenfaai aa 
safeeqsiagay aaa aia azq «| 
wa ang aaMa TaA_ATE AI II 
aaeqafadeaaearaal Beara «| 
roeranae aa Harg_Uuas II 
srausifad sarst: a1ea afea: « | 
quenfaai cnet fafataar 

ua a4 fafafadeaa eedt aelaa » | 
Raye: sad: sfani a faz I 
Brdgefard gead faa = | 
Faasigheenzamyerasy II 
qaeaiséas: eqreaifa galfeaaa: « 
Aaa afar: wareaimalad a7 | 
afar Ia) cengeqeq way | 
qufaftreader carers ga: {I 
Wag Al WaseMeAqaT =: | 
aan aftat czas: aage: RAE II 
Fafatssegead cnRaras <a» | 
afta! UnNfastaalse BT I 
maeada: war anadt aa = | 
qaqa: Saga: shaw da UHI II 
THI Fa MA a oA) asa: = | 
wang faa acer: geeieafa: «| 
cHataar aie Faaerglea wag «| 
Taegan Ta cafes: UI - 


204 


ATH: 


faa aaaeaatta srantatys, « | 
ya eadaaa: aeadaafesa: Il 
aafnderael garda: | 
aeaaaamal aqiaaaakag «| 
qauhBgdaritagasar I 
aaagacawhargarsar + | 
mraaaaatala aa | 
qaaraiaaiad aeartata aga «1 
aa aed ansalla: goasiterdiaa:t 


MARAT 


By T HAS Faq Try aera: * | 
TARA ARATS WAI WAY AT |I 
ama: argheasrahitageaa: x | 
aegis gaged aytter a aaa | 
fia cataae: sargegfac x | 
aaa ai J war Braga} II 
sattenatara: faxsaefeiag « | 
gaqidaad ad Ta FTI 

seHe RAIMA Tar WaAAs: «1 
aetaaeaerstet SAA FI 
Tata: aga pat a Arata ~ | 
Gan aafrataca aed paket 


WaRargR 


MAG BGR OETACTT AMS TUT | 


aegis seer) wy Maran adyaetat It 
amaged Ryde ta warahe ofeeH| 
Aalgasaiataays: Taye ear I 
afeeg TerghrRat: ant sarissargitrat | 


CHAP. XIV 


wa aangysea as Raraatt: aga aI 


x4 gaitiquaaehzuadeieg ge TIL! 
Fafa seheTea J aARTsTT II 


ASHTAKAVARGA 205 


AUATART -— 

mo agdatt: eat: TaeaAal | 

Rewydter wat A AeTEAMTy:!| 

TAM AG AANMATIATA: NK: | 

araadier ae) wala aaah | 

arraael aaa gra arafiaer | 

pariaaated a ania ArT 

ad fiatenatata aan Afsafatiaq 

RATATAT AMAT ATH: Il 

RST Feed TNA TUT Tasha: | 

gga: sea: azar crafsararh: [I 

werahaen zanmad ange vale | 

waaay a: gaaa Il 

aM gaccafiieracat aka sega | 

Sad Ae DAHA: AN II 

were: aia wel saz Il 
Devakeralam and other works :— 
If there are more than 30 bindus in the Lagna, 9th, 
10th and 11th houses, the person is born a king and 
remains so till his death or he will have all the powers 
and comforts equal to a king. 
One will be poor, irate or sickly according as the 
number of bindus is less than 25 in the Lagna, 9th, 10th 


and 11th houses. Mixed results if the number of 
bindus are more than 30 in some and less than 25 in 
other bhavas. 

When the number of the bindus in the Lagna, 9th, 10th 
and 11th houses is between 19 to 22 and malefics are in 
Trikona houses, the person will be very poor and a 
beggar. 

When the Lagna has less than 30 bindus and the 3rd 
house has more than 30 bindus, the person will wield 
royal authority in Parliament. 

When the Lagna, Chandralagna, 10th and 11th 
houses have more than 30 bindus each and the Lagna 


10. 


11. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


ACHAT: CHAP. XIV 


is aspected by Jupiver, the person becomes a king or 
a minister. 

If there are more than 30 bindus in the 2nd, 9th, 10th 
and 11th houses, he becomes a ruler of many states. 


If the Lagna has more than 30 bindus and there are 
planets in the 9th and 10th houses, he will lead a 
comfortable and happy life. In the above case, he 
will be the chief in his family if the Lagna contains 
the maximum bindus. 

When there are more than 30 bindus in the 4th house 
and benefics occupy and aspect that house, the person 
will have conveyances carried by men. (Palanquin, 
etc.). 

When Saturn associated with 30 bindus aspects the 
4th house and the lord of that house is in a Kendra 
from the Lagna, the person will have horses for his 
conveyances. 

When the Moon is in the 3rd bhava aspected by the 
Sun, and Mars aspects the 8th bhava, the person will 
be afflicted by hodily sores. If there are malefics in 
the 3rd house with middling bindus (between 25 to 
30), the person suffers from disorder of watery 
humours or suffers fatigue from travel, etc. 

When the Moon is in combust (New Moon) and the 
lord of the Chandralagna is associated with few bindus 
(i.e., less than 25), and has an aspect too from Saturn, 
the person is possessed of and afflicted by evil spirits. 
The Samudayashtakavarga bindu strength of a bhava 
will be ineffective if the benefic planets are in 
debilitation or in combust or malefics are in benefic 
Vargas. 


A Vargottama planet in any bhava with 30 or more 
bindus advances the happiness of that Bhava to the 
greatest extent. 

When. the lord of the Lagna is in the 4th house with 
more than 30 bindus, the person will be a feudatory 
king, prosperous and happy. 

The cardinal direction represented by the bhava 


16. 


17. 


18. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 207 


occupied by the lord of the Lagna will be the place 
of living and earning, of the person. Luck may come 
from the direction of the lord of the 8th house also. 
In the Samudayashtakavarga note the bindus in all the 
bhavas. If one bhava has the minimum bindus 
(e.g., 18) and in the next house there are maximum 
hindus (e.g., 36), the person experiences sudden rises 
in life. Conversely, if one bhava has the maximum 
bindus (e.g., 36) and in the next house there are 
minimum binds (e.g., 18), the person born experiences 
sudden falls in life. When the difference between 
the maximum and the minimum bindus is very little, 
the life of the person is very steady and progressive 
as age advances. The reverse are the results if the 
disparity between the maximum and the minimum 
bindus is very high. 

Find the number of bimdus in the house occupied by 
the Moon. The mother may suffer sickness or die 
afcer that age (represented by the bindus) of the 
native. 

When Saturn passes through the 12th, 1st and 2nd 
houses from the Moon, he gives bad results to the 
native. If the said houses contain more than 30 
hindus each, the person suffers less troubles, miseries, 
etc., and he obtains good results on a very large scale 
depending upon the number of bindus in the said 
houses. If those 3 houses contain less than 25 bindus 
each, the person suffers miseries, etc., on a very large 
scale. If they contain mixed number of bizdus, there 
are mixed results. When one of them contains very 
few bindus as compared to the remaining two, the 
person suffers heavily during the transit of Saturn 
through that house. If one of the 3 said houses con- 
tains more bindus than the other two, the transit of 
Saturn through that house will give good results. In 
the same way Saturn’s transits through the 4th and 
8th houses from the Moon may be judged. (The 
transit of Saturn through the 12th, 1st and 2nd houses 
from the Moon is known as Sadesati (aeaid), 
Panoti ( T@-), i.e., 74 years of Saturn). 


CHAPTER XV 

AYUS AND DASAS 
MIA: TRAMEMAGRA « | 
Raat Ararat tarat arava tt 8 
até Rtarat Frat aries | 
ze Tare ATIaAeE SIAN 2 AI 
Bat satarg wtayg IGA: = | 
ET AACA TNT IAT: | 3 I 
od TAMA: A AAAAATRAT & | 
TG THEA: AVA FT Uv II 


Slokas 1-4 — Parasara said, “Now I shall tell you the sys- 
tem of finding Ashtakavarga Ayus. In a planet’s Ashtaka- 
varga — 


Years Months Days 


A house having no bindu, gives 0 0 2 
» oo» vs 1 & : 0 0 13 
. - ; 2 bindus ,, 0 0 1 
, ; 3 7 ” 0 0 4 
: ” ” 4 rr » 0 0 73 
n ” i 5 ey % 2 0 0 
” ” . 6 + _ 4 0 D) 
” ” , 7 ” a 6 0 6 
” ” , 8 ” % 8 0 ] 


Examine the bindus in all the 12 bhavas separately. The 
Ayus obtained from the Ashtakavarga of each planet is sum- 
med up and reduced to one half. This is the nett Ayus 
contributed by that planet. Similarly, Ayus contributed by 
the 7 planets and the Lagna is separately worked out and 
totalled up. The grand total will be the Ayus for the na- 
tive. 


sl. 1-6 ASHTAKAVARGA 209 


Notes ; In the Standard Horoscope :— The Ayus obtained from 
the Sun’s Ashtakavarga :— 


Bhavas Bindus Years Months Days 
Lagna 4 0 0 74 
2nd 4 0 0 73 
3rd 6 4 0 0 
> 4th 5 2 0 0 
75th 2 0 0 1 
6th 4 0 0 73 
7th 2 0 0 1 
8th 2 0 0 1 
9th 4 0 0 7 
10th 6 4 0 0 
11th 5 2 0 0 
12th 4 0 0 7% 
12 1 104 


The Ayus derived from the Sun’s Ashtakavarga is (12 years, 
1 month 10} days divided by 2) = 6 years, 0 momths, 204 days. 

The Ayus obtained from the Ashtakavargas of all the planets 
and the Lagna reduced to one half :— 


Planets Years Months Days 
The Sun 6 0 204 
The Moon 7 0 12} 
Mars 4 0 10? 
Mercury 12 0 9 
Jupiter 10 0 154 
-Venus 10 0 5+ 
Saturn 4 0 73 
Lagna 5 0 23% 

58 3 4 


Total Ayus contributed by all the planets and the Lagna is 
58 years, 3 months and 4 days. The Ayus obtained by this method 
and also by those under verses 7, 9 and 13, have to be increased” 
or decreased by multiples of 27 years so as to agree with those 
calculated by other systems (Dasa, Yoga, etc.). 


arat seat Fa: avIaAsi AF 2 | 
seat qerg: waeatataersg | 4 Ul 
Us FEAT: CAATIATTSTAA I&II 


Slokas 5, 6 — Find the excess of bindus over rekhas or vice 


WT. I 8v 


210 ACHAT: CHAP. XV 


If one bindu is in excess the Ayus is 1 year ; 

» two bindus are inexcess ,, ,, 2 years; 

If one rekha is in excess ,, ,, } day; 

» two rekbas are in excess ,, ,, 4 day; 

When bindus and rekhas are equal 7} days. 

In this way Ayus is calculated for the figures in each 
bhava in the respective Ashtakavargas of all the planets 
and the Lagna. Reduce the Ayus so arrived by one-half. 
This will represent the total Ayus of longevity taken to- 
gether. 

Notes : This system is the same as that mentioned in the previous 
verses, 


greatagured gear fos seey aaa: | 
HOMUATTSCT TATT MATT UL 9 
TATE T TRME TIAA AAT: | 

og: Fes Ff ATTA MAsat FT FTA UW ¢ UI 


Slokas 7, 8 — After obtaining the Shodhyapindas of the 7 
planets, multiply each one by the number of bindus (before 
the reductions) in the 8th house from the Lagna in their 
respective Ashtakavargas. Divide these products individual- 
ly by 27. The quotients represent Ayus in years (months 
etc.). Their sum (reduced by 100 if the total exceeds it) 
is known as the Ayuspinda. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— 

The Sun; 204 (Shodhyapinda of the Sun) X 2 (number 
of bindus in the 8th house from the Lagna before the reductions 


in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga ) = pi =15 ; years. 
: = 376 _ 1425 
The Moon; 94 X 4 = 37 1355 years, 
Mars ; 153 X 3 ~ = 17 years. 
Mercury ; 170 X 6 = a2 372 years. 
27 9 
192 = Le: * 


jupiter ; 96 x 2 = 7 7+. years. 


sl. 7-11 ASHTAKAVARGA 211 


740 11 


Venus; 148 * 5 = 07 7 2197 years. 
‘ = 153 _.2 
Saturn; 153 x 1= 97 53 years. 


Total years 124 less 100 years = 24 Nakshatra years. 
‘ 24 x 324_ 7776 
To convert them into solar years 365” 365 


=21 yrs. — 3 mths. — 19 days —39 Ghs. 
aaaquaaInets Tar Hakeecraaeaeat: =: | 
TATU AS TATA TATMSATTART: 121 
aa aaa Root adhd A aera ara | 
TASS AGUIAR Th Raped eq Ul Yo tl 


Slokas 9, 10 — Add together the Rasipinda and Grahapinda 
figures to get the Shodhyapinda for all the 7 planets sepa- 
rately. Divide these figures by 30 to get years (months, 
etc.). If the years are in excess of 12, deduct as many cycles 
of 12 years as possible (keeping 12 and figures less than 12 
as they are). The sum of all these figures, gives the period 
of life given by the various planets subject to modifica- 
tions. 


(1) Double the Ayus for the planet in exaltation; 

(2) Reduce to one half the Ayus for the planet in debi- 
litation or in combust; 

(3) In respect of a planet in an intermediate position 
(between his exaltation and debilitation) calculate 
the proportional period; 

(4) When Mars is retrograde, double the Ayus ob- 
tained. 


qVAAUaeTal TrtaaAAraTay | 
THARITTMATAATTNA Takeaaaer Harany: tt 22 1 


Sloka 11—In respect of planets in Moolatrikona, own 
house, a friendly house or in benefic Vargas such as exalta- 
tion, conjunction with benefic planets or in aspect from 
benefics, the Ayus figure has to be modified as before. 


212 arena: cHap. XV 


When they are in the Vargas of malefic or inimical planets, . 
the Ayus undergoes corresponding reductions. 


shales id RA: RAT ANATAT | 
aremraara Sateereragts Te: tt 22 


Sloka 12 — The maximum period of life for human beings 

is obtained by adding together the years given (after the 

necessary modifications) by the Sun and other planets. Some. 
great teachers (like Parasara) are of the opinion that this 
has to be increased by the Ayus contributed by the Lagna 

(deduced from the Lagnashtakavarga) in order to get the 

full life period. 

Notes; In the Standard Horoscope :— 

(a) The Sun’s Shodhyapinda is 204; divided by 30 gives 6.8. 
The Sun’s position is 4°-29°-40’ and he is therefore 40°-20* 
from his depression point. Hence the Ayus given by the 
Sun is :— 


40° — 20’ 
= 3.4 + 10.2 x 180° 


= 3.4 + 2.2855 = 5.6855 yrs. 
= 5 yrs. 8 mths. 6 dys. 47 Ghs. 
(b) The Moon’s Shodhyapinda is 94; divided by 30 gives 
"3.13 yrs. The Moon’s position is 6°-13°-34 and is therefore 
19°-26’ from her depression point. Hence the Ayus given 
’ by the Moon is :-— 
. » ., 19°-26' 

1.56 + 4.69 X “Fa 
1.56 + 0.5074 = 2.074 yrs. =2 yrs. 0 mths. 26 dys. 38 Ghs 
(c) The Shodhyapinda of Mars is 153; divided by 30 gives 

5.1 yrs. The position of Mars is 4*-7°-1’ and he is there- 
fore 9°-1’ from his depression point. Hence the Ayus piven 


by Mars is :— 
9°-1’ 
= be 05 X = 
2.95 + 7.65 TRO 


= 2.55 + 0.3832 = 2.9332 yrs. = 2 yrs. 11 mths. 5 dys. 57 Ghs: 
(d) The Shodhyapinda of Mercury is 170; divided by 30 gives 
5.66 yrs. The position of Mercury is 5*-5°-36/ and there- 


$1.12. ASHTAKAVARGA 213 


qe) 


(f) 


(8) 


(h) 


fore he is 170°-36’ from his depression point. Hence the 
Ayus given by Mercury is :— 


& 170° — — 36! 
= 2.83 yrs + 8:49 x 180° 


= 2.83 + 8.0561 = 10.8894 yrs. Mercury is in combust. 
Therefore this Ayus has to be reduced by }. Therefore the 
Ayus given is :—— 
= 10-8894 + 2 = 5.4447 yrs. =5 yrs. 5 mths. 10 dys. 6 Ghs. 
The Shodhyapinda of Jupiter is 96; divided by 30 gives 
3.2 yrs. The position of Jupiter is 5*-15°-35’ and therefore 
he is 109°-25’ from his depression point. Hence the Ayus 
given by Jupiter is :— 

109 25. 
= 16+ 4,8 x —~“T80" 
= 1.6 + 2.9177 = 4.5177 yrs.=4 yrs. 6 mths. 6 dys. 24 Ghs, 
The Shodhyapinda of Venus is 148; divided by 30 gives 
4.93 ycars. The position of Venus is 6*-15°-37’ and she is 
therefore 18°-37’ from her depression point. Hence the 
Ayus given by Venus is :— 

18° - 37’ 

= 2.466 + 7.399 x TR6° 
= 2,466 + 0.76535 = 3,2320 yrs. = 3 yrs. 2 mths. 23 dys, 31 Ghs, 
The Shodhyapinda of Saturn is 153: divided by 30 gives 
5.1 yrs. The position of Saturn is 9°-16°-11’ and he is 
therefore 93°-49’ from his depression point. Hence the 
Ayus given by Saturn is :— 
= 93°— 49! 
= 2.55 + 7.65 x "180° 


= 2.55 + 3.9872 = 6.5372 yrs. = = 6 yrs. 6 mths. 13 dys. 24, Ghs, 
The Shodhyapinda of the Lagna is 91 ; divided by 30 gives 
3.03 yrs. = 3 yrs. O mths. 12 dys. 

Therefore the total of the Ayus given by the 7 planets and 


the Lagna :— 

yrs, mths. days. Ghs, 
The Sun 4 _ 5 8 6 - 47 
The Moou 2 0 26.38 
Mars 2 11 -5 ‘37 
Mercury 5 5 . 0 ,.-6 


214 aaa: cHAP. XV 
yrs mths, days Ghs 

Jupiter 4 . 6 6 

Venus 3 2 23 31 

Saturn 6 6 13 24 

The Lagna 3 0 12 0 

Total :— 33 5 14 47 


aoe PP 2 a ia ccemreroreroe a 


STE UNUTEN Soe se ne esiser oN asre se see see Zuew ser 


Tae Walea at aeorpaey U1 22 UI 


Sloka 13 — From the Bhinnashtakavargas of the 7 planets, 
find out the numbers of bindus in the houses occupied by 
the planets (from the Sun to Saturn before the reductions). 
The sum of these numbers with necessary modifications as. 
done in the previous four verses, will represent the life 
period of a native. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope : 


The Sun is associated with 5 bindus in his Ashtakavarga in 
the 4th bhava. The Ayus contributed is — 


=2.5 + 7.5 x ee 2.5 + 1.6806 = 4.1806 years. 

Planets Years. 

The Sun 4.1806 

The Moon 1.9858 

Mars 3.4508 

Mercury 4.8042 (The proportionate age for 
Uccha position is halved for 
being in combust). 

Jupiter 5.6472 

Venus 3.2757 

Saturn 1.2818 


24.6261 years, 


= 24 years—7 months — 15 days — 24 Ghatikas. 


TEN A THs TATU l 
sogrelh bells oll am 


sl. 13-20 ASHTAKAVARGA 215 


aafrangarent aio waft 
areanaaead areata: STAT 1 24 
aarti ded oftathiay | 

Te wea: Theat Ara TLE 1 28 
HI AT WESTIN: Ut V9 UI 


Slokas 14-17 —Multiply the Shodhyapinda by 7 and 
divide the product by 27. The quotient represents the 
period contributed in years (months, days, etc.). 


The period of 27 years is known as one cycle ( age ), 
If the quotient so arrived is less than 27, keep the figure 
as it is ; if above 27 and below 54, subtract it from 54 and 
take the remainder (as Ayus from that planet); if the 
figure is above 54 and below 81, subtract 54 from the 
same ; and if above 81 and below 108, subtract the figure 
from 108 and take the remainder as Ayus. 


TUTE Th T AAT | 
ARsdreTseng Tet FY AAT | Ve I 
aaay Rant exaitect a | 

TH T alaaa TIP TTT | LS UI 
TRACT AT HARSTTT Il Ro | 


Slokas 18-20—The Ayus obtained is subject to the 
following reductions. 


If two or more planets are together in a bhava, the 
Ayus obtained is reduced to one-half for each of them. 
If any planet is in debilitation, or is in combust, the years 
should be halved. If any planet is in an inimical house, 
teduce the Ayus by one-third. 


If any malefic planet is in the visible half of the Zodiac 
(i.e., in the 12th, 11th, 10th, 9th, 8th or 7th house) the 
reduction is as follows :-— 

(1) for the 12th house, remove all ; 

(2) for the 11th house, deduct one-half ; 


216 Re cuap. XV 


(3) for the 10th house, deduct one-third ; 

(4) for the 9th house, deduct one-fourth ; 

(5) for the 8th house, deduct one-fifth ; 

(G) for the 7th house, deduct one-sixth ; 

In the case of benefic planets in the visible half the 
reductions are half of those given for malefics. 

If a planet is defeated in war, reduce his Ayus by 
one-third. Also, when either the Sun or the Moon is in 
conjunction (within prescribed degrees) with Rahu 
or Ketu reduce the Ayus by one-third. 

When there are two or more reductions applicable to 

a planet, carry out only that which is the highest (in 
magnitude). 
Notes: Planets in the invisible half of the Zodiac, i.e., between 
the cusps of the Lagna and the 7th house, undergo no reductions 
as giver in verse 19. The Lagna Ayus is not subject to 
any reduction. The years, etc., so obtained are the Nakshatra 
years (a year consisting of 324 days, ic., twelve cycles of the 
Moon). 


CaAanarHeaT aia aeaq | 
andrea aarqnadtla a aE 11282 I 


qaakaarara Heat TA TA Aad | 
wd gern ata Tat FAIIATITG It 22 


umaent agit wasyZIeT F | 
AaemMaeae a sraaatatsaq tl 83 I 


Slokas 21-23 — After all the above reductions (verses 
16 to 20) multiply each planet’s Ayus by 324 ( ati) and 
divide the product by 365 (ard) which gives the true 
duration in solar years (months, days, etc.). These are the 
years of the Dasa periods of the planets and the Lagna. 

In the case of the Lagna Ayus, the solar years arrived 
at have to be increased by as many years as the Lagna has 
completed rasis, from Mesha. The completed portion of 
the Lagna rasi, converted into months, days, etc., at the 
rate of one year equal to 30° is added to it. _ 


‘sl. 21-23 ASHTAKAVARGA 217 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope : 


1. The Sun’s Shodhyapinda is 204 and the product when 
multiplied. by 7 is 1428. 
The Ayus given by the Sun = 1428 + 27 = 52 yrs. 
10 mths. 20 dys. 
2. The Moon’s Shodhyapinda 94 multiplied by 7 gives 658. 
*, The Ayus given by the Moon = ‘658 + 27 = 24 yrs. 
4 mths. 13 dys. 20 ghs. 
Similarly the Ayus given by the remaining planets and the 
Lagna are calculated. The Mandala reductions are then carried out. 


: ‘ Ayus after Mandala 
Planets Ayus arrived, correction. Remarks. 
“ Y¥.M. D. G.| Y- M. D. G. 


The Sun 5210 20 0, 1 1 #10 = O subtracted from 54 ; 

The Moon 24 4 13 20 | 24 4 13 20 less than 27 no 
change ; 

Mars 39 8 00:14 4 O O Subtracted from 54; 


Mercury 44 0 26 40 911 3 20 - 5 

Jupiter 2410 20 0, 2410 20 O less than 27 no 
: change 

Venus 38 4 13 20) 15 7 16 40 Subtracted from 54: 

Saturn 39 8 00,14 4 0 0 7 : 

The Lagna 23 7 320: 23 7 =3 20 = ilessthan 27 no 
et ea change, 

1128 2 6 40 

They are next subject to further reductions due'to planctary 

<onjunctions and positions of the planets in the visible half of 


the Zodiac. 


%» 


” 


\ 
\ 
S 
i 


1. The Sum and Mercury are together in the 4th bhava. 
Mercury is in combust also. Therefore each of them undergoes 
reduction by one-half. 

'-2,-«*Jupiter, Venus and the Moon are together in the 5th 
bbava. Also, the Moon is in. conjunction with Ketu. Therefore 
each of these planets undergoes reduction by one-half. 

3. Mars is in the 3rd bhava with no other planet in it and 
he is in the invisible half of the Zodiac. Therefore no reduction 
in his Ayus. 

4.. Saturn is in the 8th bhava with no planet in conjunction. 
But the Lagna minus Saturn is 2°*-4°-37" minus 9°-16°-11’ = 


218 ACHAT: cHAP. XV 


4°-18°-26’. This being less than 6 signs, there should be 
Chakrardhahani. 


The divisor is 45 — 18° —26’+1800’ =4-614 
The rectified Ayus given by Saturn is 14 yrs. 4 mths. minus 


“614 X 1dyrs- 4 mths. = 11 yrs, 2 mths. 21 dys. 40 Ghs. 


5. The Lagna Ayus is not subject to any further reduction. 


Shuddha Ayus in solar 
years. 


Nakshatra Ayus after 
Planets reduction for conjunc- 

tion, etc. | 

Yrs. Mths. Dys. Ghs.| Yrs. Mths. Dys. Ghs- 


The Sun 0 6 2 #40: O 5 27 32 
The Moon 12 2 6 40° 10 9 23 55 
Mars 14 4 0 0; 12 8 20 23 
Mercury 4 11 16 4, 4 4 25 59 
Jupiter 12 5 10 0: ll 0 16 46 
Venus 7 9 23 20' 6 I 7 19 
Saturn 11 2 21 40 9 11 17 40 
The Lagna 23 7 3 20; 20 11 9 17 
Additive (See | 2 1 25 2a 
Sloka No. 23) 

Total Ayus 87 1 mu 40, 79 5 24 15 


The rectified Ayus arrived is the Nakshatra Ayus. This has. 
to be converted into solar years (i.e., year of 365 days) by multi- 
plying the figure by 324 and dividing by 365. 

The Sun’s Nakshatra Ayus is 6 months 20 days = 200 days 


The equivalent Ayus in solar days = Ca ce = 177 days 32 Ghs- 


365 
= 5 months 27 days 32 Ghatis. 


The Moon’s Ayus in equivalent solar years 


= 12-2-6-40x 32% 10 yrs. 9 mths. 23dys. 55 Ghs. 
Similarly, the equivalent Ayus in solar years of the remaining 
planets and the Lagna are given in the table above. The Lagna 


Ayus is increased by a period as giver in verse No. 23. 


sl, 24-28 ASHTAKAVARGA 219 


ETT TESA HEMT TTAIET | 
CHANTS WHAT ll VW IN 
aamal ¢ wélaed aay afag | 
maternal TaN PTS ATTAT Ut 84 I 
GaRTNTIE TAT TITITAT | 

CHG F TAT AAATTATA I 2G I 
aafiafarrecamg: fee yex78 | 
RIMATHGEMT ATA: GAT: 1 VW UN 
aang g afew aoed aaa: | 

TAH FT DHrnerngpaea TaN Re UI 


Slokas 24-28 — Having prepared the Samudayashtakavarga, 
subtract cycles of 12 from each bhava, retaining 12 or 
figures less than 12 ; thereafter carry out the Trikona and 
Ekadhipatya reductions. 

Multiply the remaining figures by the respective rasi 
and Graha multipliers and find the Shodhyapinda. 
Multiply this figure by 7 and divide the product by 27, 
which gives the duration of life in Nakshatra years 
(months, etc.). This figure is subject to reduction by 100, 
if it is greater than that, since, the maximum duration of 
life according to this method is only 100 years. Convert 
this Ayus into solar years. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the Shodhyapinda of the 

Samudayashtakavarga is 324. The product when multiplied by 

7 is 2268. 

.. The Ayus obtained from Samudayashtakavarga is 2268 + 27 
= 84 Nakshatra years. 

This has to be converted into solar years. 


-. 84 X 324 _ 74 years 6 months 23 days 11 Ghatis. 


365 

HaHa s —— 

——ranfiaed searnaa: date aang faa: 
qqhseq J CAG Aas salesaied NaI 


220 TeReTT CHAP. XV 


get uagagua: aqua 

zm jeecaned sequsaits aM! 
arafaaa aaa aad: 

aa ath Raaratage: wena: I 


MATA ASHATITAHCIT: | 


TAMSTTMd AIA: ALMATRANAMA URS 


Sloka 29 — The above Samudayashtakavarga years will 
have to be reduced or increased by cycles of 27 years 
(ass) according as the Lagna is aspected by malefic or 
benefic planets, and also, according as the longevity of 
the person is found to ‘be short, middle or long by the 
‘Yoga Ayus or other methods. 


RE T AAUTATAA ReTISTAT | 
Raseaaiey Masa TMT: I Ro | 


aga Peart ae AI_ | 

oe TENE AAT SATA TAFTAR U1 32 Il 
age at HA AAT | 
TVANTATAPT: AATUTAATAA: | 22 Al 


Slokas 30-32 —To find the proportional part of the 8 
Dasas, in the Samudaya Ayus, the individual Bhinnayus 
is multiplied by the Samudaya Ayus and the product is 
divided by the sum of the 8 Bhinnayus, when the respective 
Dasa period is obtained. Thus the Dasa periods of each 
planet and the Lagna are found. This is known as the 
allocation of the Dasas in the Samudayashtakavarga Ayus. 
The Ashtakavarga method of finding the longevity and the 
Dasa periods is said to be the best of all methods. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope: The Bhinnashtakavarga 
Ayus total is 79 yrs. 5 mths. 24 dys. 15 Ghs. and the Ayus accord- 
ing to Samudayashtakavarga is 74 yrs. 6 mths. 23 dys. 11 Ghs. 
When (according to verse Nos. 35, 36 supra) the Ayus has to be 
feckoned on the Samudayashtakavarga basis, the proportionate 


sl. 29-34 


ASHTAKAVARGA 


221 


parts of the Dasa periods of the planets and the Lagna in the 
Samudayashtakavarga will be as follows :— 


The proportionate Ayus contributed by the Sun 


= 0 - 5 - 27 


32 x 


74:5644 ( Samudaya years ) 


79-4840 ( Bhinnayus total ) 


= 0 Yrs. 5 Mth. 16 Dys. 33 Ghs. 


The proportionate Ayus contributed by the Moon 


10 - 9 - 23 


55 x 


74-5644 
79-4840 


10 Yrs. 1 Mth. 22 Dys. 46 Ghs, 


Similarly, the proportionate parts of the Ayus contributed by the 
remaining planets are to be found. They are given below in a. 
tabular form against their respective Bhinnashtakavarga Ayus. 


Bhinnashtakavarga Proportionate Ayus in 
Ayus Samudayashtakavarga. 
Yrs. Mths. Dys. Ghs. Yrs. Mths. Dys. Ghs. 
The Sun 0 5 27 32: 0 5 16 33 
The Moon 10 9 23 55 10 1 22 46 
Mars 12 8 20 23 Il 1 6 57 
Mercury 4 4 2 59; 4 1 17 50 
Jupiter i 0 16 46; 10 4 10 3 
Venus 6 11 7 19 6 6 2 46 
Sacurn 9 11 17 40. 9 4 5 33 
The Lagna 23 1 4 41! 21 8 0 7 
9 5 224 15'74 +6 2 I 


mo Reet ereteb ae. wetenrlefweter ote. 1 


Rrateaito zara SARAH FeaATA ES! 33 1 
| Fegreraae’ & a gedaa | 


ooaiioy Prager: TATAM 1 BV UI 


Slokas 33, 34— The Bhinnayus Dasas are to be considered 


when :— 


(1) the powerful Moon is not in a Kendra; and 


222 aeRah CHAP, XV 


(2) any planet other than the Moon is powerful and 
is in a Kendra; or 
(3) the Moon in conjunction with another planet is 
in bhavas other than a Kendra ; and 
(4) the 10th bhava is occupied by benefics and male- 
fics. 
In all other cases the Samudaya A'yus system is to be 
taken. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope 
(1) the Moor is not in a Kendra ; 
(2) powerful Mercury is in a Kendra (4th bhava); 
(3) the Moon is in conjunction with Jupiter and Venus in 
the Sth bhava. 
Therefore the Bhinnashtakavarga Ayus system is applied. 


Manaiara -— 
eae BX TA Weisz) 
TERA TATA PTTTTA SAAT | 


TAIT PART ART FAS AISAASTHT: | 

Fa: VAAN APaeasrawH es: | 34 UI 
TARA FRA WK Feziale: fea: VA: | 
agaraenatan seert Arateafteate: 1 261 


Slokas 35, 36— The Samudaya Dasa periods are to be 
taken when :— 
(1) the Moon in conjunction with any planet is in a 
Kendra ; 
(2) the other planets are weak and not in Kendras ; 
and 
(3) the powerful Moon alone is in a Kendra. 


According to Manittha (afta) when the Moon is in 
conjunction with one planet in a Kendra and when the 
femaining planets are outside the Kendras, one should 
adopt Samudaya Ayus system. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— (1) the Moon is not in 
a Kendra ; (2) Mercury is strong and is in a Kendra. Therefore 


sl. 35-38 ASHTAKAVARGA 223 


the Samudayashtakavarga Ayus system does not apply. (For the 
purpose of finding the proportionate parts of the Ayus given by 
the planets in the Samudayashtakavarga they have been calculated 
and given for the benefit of students, when such contingencies 
arise). 


FATA ALA TAT TM AIT | 
PUTATHT ATMA AAPA: 1 29 UI 


Sloka 37 — Whatever Ayus is obtained in respect of a 
planet, that will be the Dasa period of that planet. I shall 
now explain in detail the method of determining the Dasa 
order. 


waPaROt Fa eae Fatssen TIT seats: | 
TAA AAA ATR BAT N Be UI 


Sloka 38 —The Dasa of that planet, which is the most 
powerful amongst the Lagna, the Moon and the Sun should 
be taken as the first Dasa. Thereafter the Dasas, of the 
planets in the Kendras from that powerful one in the 
order of their strength ; of the' planets in Panaphara houses 
and lastly, of those in the Apoklima houses follow in the 
same manner. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope amorgst the Sun, the Moon 
and the Lagna, the Lagna is the most powerful (8.702 Rupas) 
followed by the Sun (7.348 Rupas), the Moon (6.756 Rupas) 
according to their Shadvargabalas. Hence the Dasa of the Lagna 
comes first. 

The Sun and Mercury are in Kendra from the Lagna. There- 
fore the Dasas of the Sun and Mercury (7.206 Rupas) come in 
order after the Lagma. 

Out of the Panaphara houses from the Lagna the 5th house 
is occupied by the Moon, Jupiter and Venus and the 8th by 
Saturn. The Dasas in the order of their strength are those of 
Saturn (7.997 Rupas), the Moon (6.756 Rupas), Venus (6.200 
Rupas) and Jupiter (5.368 Rupas). 

Next in order comes the planets in the Apoklima houses. 
Mars is the only planet ia the 3rd_ house. 


224 ae: . cHap. XV 


Therefore the order of the Dasas is 1. The Lagna; 2. The 
Sun; 3. Mercury; 4. Saturn; 5. The Moon; 6. Venus; 7. 
Jupiter and 8. Mars. 


amisg sak § Ae qaseet wars Ae: | 
aad § Saar Vaal enead act | 12S 1 
Bererggaa vara aa fat aaTas TT 
drenaita & at: a wd aa Ae: GT: tvoll 


Slokas 39, 40 — To find out the sub-periods of the planets 
in the main Dasa period of a planet,‘ the order is as 
follows :— 


(1) a planet in conjunction’ with the main planet 
contributes 4 of the main planet’s period ; 

(2) thereafter, the sub-periods of planets in the 9th 
and ‘5th houses from the Dasa lord in the pro-. 
portion of one-third of his period ; 

(3) that of a planet in the 7th house from the Dasa 
lord in the proportion of one-seventh of his 
period, and 

(4) those of planets in the 8th and 4th houses from 
the Dasa lord in the proportion of one-fourth. 

When there are many planets in a bhava only the. 

sub-period of the strongest planet should be taken ‘into. 
account. 


Pratt + aternad TH SeaTAl Fae | 
akorrnt ata asa Tae Nee 
Tal Saat FV HAT aTed (as Fed Beat a | 
wage deat aaarciacm acataTet 1 22 
Slokas 41-42 —Write unit for the main Dasa lord and 
the proportional fractions for the sub-period lords. Find: 
the L.C.M. of the denominators and multiply the fractions 
by this ‘number. The figures obtained in the numerators 


represent the proportional periods of the main Dasa lord 
and the sub-lords for the common denominator. Add.all- 


sl, 39-42 ASHTAKAVARGA 225 


these numerators and ‘divide the Dasa period by this sum 
and multiply the quotient by the respective numerator of 
each planet to get his sub-period in the main Dasa. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope :— Main Dasa periods in 
their order :— 


In solar years 
Yrs. Mths. Dys. Ghs. 


1. The Lagna 23 1 4 4] 
(2. The Sun 0 5 27 32 4th bhava 
Kendra 3. Mercury 4 4 25 59, Pe 
4. Saturn 9 1l 17 40 8th ,, 
5. The Moon 10 9 23 55 5th ,, 
Panapharas is Venus 6 il i jes. 
7. Jupiter 11 0 16 46 , * 
Apoklima 8. Mars 12 #8 ji.20 £23 3rd 


(1). The Lagna Dasa and its sub-periods:- 


Bhavas ist 5th 8th 
Lords The Lagna The Moon (only) ra a Sun (only) 
Proportion 1 4 i} 
re Aa +4+ 34 + 3 —22 
12°C 
*. Fractional parts 
12 A 3 3 
22 22 22 22 


.. The Lagna’s peer 
23~-1-4- ai x22 = 12 yrs. 7 mths. 5 dys. 17 Ghs. 


22 
The Moon’s are 
a3~1-4-41xe 4-2 - - 46 
Saturn’s Antara 

3 

x— = _ = = 
23-1-4-41 9 3 1 23 49 
The Sun’s Antara 
23-1-4-41x3 = 3 - 1 - 23 - 49 
The Lagna Dasa A 


The Antaras in the main periods of the remaining Dasa lords 
are given below :— 


ot. a. 94 


c 


226 TORT cHAP. XV 


(2) The Sun :— The Sun is im the 4th bhava from the 
Lagna. Mercury also occupies it. 


The Sun’s Antara q@) = 0O— 3 — 28 — 21 
Mercury's 33 G) = oO-— 1 — 29 — 11 
The Sun’s Dasa = 0 yrs. 5 mths. 27 dys. 32 Ghs. 


(3) Mercury :— Mercury and the Sun are both in the 4th 
and Saturn is in the 5th from Mercury (the Dasa lord). 


Mercury’s Antara QQ) = 2—- 4 — 2%— 5 
The Sun’s _ Gd = 1— 2 — 12 — 32 
Saturn’s = (4) 0— 9 — 18 — 22 
Mercury’s Dasa ~ 4 yrs. 4 mths. 25 dys. 59 Ghs. 


(4) Saturn :— Saturn is in the 8th bhava from the Lagna. 
Mercury and the Lagna are in the 9th and the 5th respectively, 
and the Sun is in the 8th from Saturn. 


Saturn’s Antara qd) = 5— 2 — 11 — 49 
Mercury’s » (4) = 2L— 8 — 23 — 57 
The Lagna’s .,, (4) = 1— 8 — 23 — 57 
The Sun’s___,, G@ =~ 1— 3 ~ W— 57 
Saturn’s Dasa = 9 yrs. 11 mths. 17 dys. 40 Ghs. 


(5) The Moon :— The Moon is in Sth bhava from the 
Lagna. Venus, the stronger out of Venus and Jupiter is in the 
same bhava. The Lagna is in the 9th and Saturn in the 4th 
from the Moon. 


The Moon’s Antara (1) = 5 — 2 — 9— 5 
Venus’ 33 GQ) = 2— 7 — 4 — 32 
The Lagna’s _,, (4%) = t— 8 — 23— 2 
Saturn’s * @ = 1—- 3 — 17 — 16 
The Moon’s Dasa = 10 yrs. 9 mths. 23 dys. 55 Ghs. 


(6) Venus :— Venus is in the 5th bhava from the Lagna. 
The Moon, the stronger out of the Moon and Jupiter is in the 
same bhava. The Lagna is in the 9th and Saturn in the 4th from 


Venus. 


sl, 43-46 ASHTAKAVARGA 227 


Venus’ Antara (4) - 3— 3 — 28— 43 
The Moon’s Antara (3) == 1— 7 — 29 — 21 
The Lagna’s ,, (4) = 1— 1 — 9 — 34 
Saturn’s » GQ) = o— 9 — 29— 41 
Venus’ Dasa - 6 yrs. 11 mths. 7 dys. 19 Ghs. 


(7) Jupiter :— Jupiter is in the 5th bhava from the Lagna. 
Mercury is in conjunction with Jupiter. Saturn is in the 5th 
from Jupiter. 


Jupiter's Antara Q) = 6— 0 —+ 9~— 9 
Mercury’s % G) = 3— 0 — 4 — 34 
Saturn's “ G4) - 2— 0— 3— 3 
Jupiter’s Dasa = 11 yrs. O mths. 16 dys. 46 Ghs. 


(8) Mars :— Mars occupies the 3rd bhava from the Lagna. 
There are no planets in the ist, Oth, 5th, 7th, 8th or 4th bhava 
from Mars. Hence there are no Antaras. 

Mars’ Dasa = 12 yrs. 8 mths. 20 dys. 23 Ghs. 


In finding the Antaras of the plancts in a Main Dasa, the 
bhara positions of the Antara lords should be determined by 
taking the main Dasa lord’s longitude as Lagma. (cf. Shripati). 


HATS TET AT Tal TT TA ATA + | 
Pesea HS Te aed AeTHS Fay |) V3 1 


Sloka 43 — When the house occupied by a planet at birch 
contains excess of bindus over rekhas (in his Ashtaka- 
varga) his Dasa is auspicious ; if the rekhas are in excess 
of bindus the Dasa is adverse and when the bindus and 
rekhas ate equal it gives mixed results. 


Reged sar aha Hema F fare: I 
TSIM HS TF Mi a BS TSTAT A ve UI 
VSS FS WH Tals TATA +1 

IS TAT RT AT FIAT TA V4 UI 

ad freganan He FE ATTA + 
AST TS TAT AAA HTT U1 VS 


228 aeRaT: cHAP. XV 


TMATTTTY Tet Tarra ary +1 
Fal MKS Gt Ba fet qar waq | VOM 


Slokas 44-47 — The nett-result of the Dasa period will be 
good or bad as follows :— 


Find the difference between the number of bindus and 
rekhas and divide it by 8 (which is the maximum possi- 
ble). If the bindus are in excess, good effects are given 


: . : : 8-0 
in due proportion. The proportions are 8 bindus 


= 1 full; 7 bindus i} =# three quarters ; 6 bindus, 4 
and 5 bindus, 1/4. Bad effects are found in the same manner 
according to the excess of rekhbas over bindus. When both 
are equal, the effects are mixed. If at the commencement 
of a Dasa, a planet (whose Dasa is considered) transits 
a bhava containing 8 bindus the effects are full; with 7 
to 5 bindus, auspicious ; with 4, mixed and with less than 
4, increasingly adverse. 


Akraemia Fang aaa 

QAM ATS Halas TM: TACIT IY HAT | 
SMM ATT AST ATT ATATs AAT: AAT 

ARTTITT WITT: TTA: DAT | BoM 
TNs Aderh 3 waa ¥ genie: aa: 

FIA Irae ast wale a 7 
Graaaatead gah araralt enbra— 

Tal a Tafa Peas gona atest 


Slokas 48, 49 — After completing the Ashtakavarga of each 
planet in the manner prescribed, note the number of bin- 
dus in the 12 bhavas. Divide the Dasa periods of the 
planets into 12 parts and allot one part (the years will 
be equal to the number of months) to each bhava. The 
first duodecimal period commences with the bhava oc- 
cupied by the planet, whose Dasa and Ashtakavarga are 


sl. 47-49 ASHTAKAVARGA 229 


under consideration. The period corresponding to a bhava 
having less than 4 bindus will be inauspicious, and that 
corresponding to a bhava having more than 4 bindus will be 
auspicious. The bhavas having no bindu or less than 4 bin- 
dus will bring loss of wealth, harvest, cattle, etc. (in their 
corresponding portions of the Dasa periods). The bhavas 
having 5 or more bindus bring prosperity, wealth, etc., 
and bhavas with 4 bindus give mixed effects. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter is in the 5th 
bhava in Tula having four bindus. During the first period of 
(1/12 of 11 yrs. O mths. 16 dys. 46 Ghs.) 11 mths. 1 dy. and 
24 Ghs. in Jupiter’s Dasa, there will be moderate increase in 
wealth, welfare of the children, intelligence and other things 
connected with Jupiter. 

The bindus in the 2nd house from Jupiter are 6. During the 
second 1/12 period of the Dasa, there will be increase in wealth, 
welfare of the children, intelligence, etc. In this manner, one 
should examine the 3rd, 4th and the remaining houses from 
Jupiter, till the 12th house, when the whole Dasa period will be 
over. 

There is another way of consideration also. Find which 
bhava from the Lagna is occupied by Jupiter. The first 1/12th 
period of Jupiter’s Dasa gives the effects (good or bad depending 
on the number of bindus), indicated by that bhava and so on. 

Jupiter is in the 5th bhava from the Lagna with 4 bindus. 
The happiness through children, mental activity, etc., are normal 
in the first period. In the 6th bhava from the Lagna, there are 
6 bindus; the 2nd duodecimal period will give freedom from 
sickness, relief from enemies, etc., and so on for the remaining 
bhavas. 

Similarly, the good or bad periods for each planet are to be 
considered from their Bhinnashtakavarga figures. 

This system of dividimg a Dasa into twelve equal parts may 
be applied to other systems of Dasas such as Vimshottari, Ashtot- 
tari, etc, 


RARUTHTT — 
FOICCERCCECCICDICIOI CCG @| 
Raeaesatig nei sw TF Il 


230 ACHAT: CHAP. XV 


al Weleeoat Day aT A 
aaa oe Tea feds gH WIT tt 
GMA: AAT J TAANAWG a 1 
MTPAT AMSA AWA FAT II 
Ualehics ataeqameagita: | 
Bane ALAA SAM A J ALIAT| 
qaalequiaanst aafarean | 
SAM TIAA BAIA TAA Ul 


oHsARS TARA AMArAT STAT | 

Aa BIRT TaTM-ATAT 11 4o tl 
PrERTATH UMA AAT TAA | 
TMA: ASTM T ATT 4? Ut 
aa Tesay Teal I Faq | 
Aegdattag wat wat F Gas wag 1 4 I 
aaa gardiat Pearerraacnar | 

ay aARS Veo TA THM 143 UI 


waa Ted eauend 20) 
TAA Ta eareeation AAT WV UI 


Slokas 50-54— The Antardasa of the lord of a bhava 
containing only one, two, or three bindus in the Mahadasa 
lord’s Ashtakavarga, brings about distress, extreme suffer- 
ings in all undertakings and loss of wealth, grains and 
cattle. The Antara of the lord of the bbava containing 
five (or more) bindus is beneficial. It brings about suc- 
cess in all undertakings and if there is Yoga (for prospe- 
rity) effect about that time, it will make the person very 
fortunate. In the case of planets owning two bhavas, 
when there are five (or more) bindus in both the bhavas, 
the Antara of the lord of those bbavas proves very auspi- 
cious; on the other hand when such two bhavas have less 
number of bindus in both of them, the lord of those bhavas 
will give no good effects during his Antara. Planets like 


sl. 50-54 ASHTAKAVARGA 231] 


Mars, etc., (owning two bhavas) will give increasing good 
effects if there are more bindus in their bhavas. When the 
number of bindus and rekbas are equal, mixed effects are 
noticed. In this manner the effects of a planet during his 
Dasa and Antardasa should be considered in the Ashtaka- 
varga system. When the Sun’s house (Simha) contains less 
number of bindus, his Antara proves ineffective. Similar 
is the case with the Moon, 

Notes: If one of the two houses owned by a planet has more 
bindus and the other less, the effects of that Antara will be partly 
good and partly bad. 


CHAPTER XVI 
PLANETARY TRANSITS (GOCHARA) 
ACHAT: 
TMNT ATATIT | 
maa sila: Rfgataafaaa Ul 2 I 
Bila vase: esa | 
TPA TT SUA | GAA 2 
qe BR Ta ars qaaid Perea | 
TAAASY aay TAASAAATS Ul 2 
amano orasatad Peat | 


Slokas 1-34 — The effects produced by the transit of the 
Sun through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by him in 
the natal chart; (1) brightness, achievement of things 
desired ; (2) increase in wealth ; (3) agitation caused by 
enemies ; (4) praise from kinsmen; (5) sickness, anxiety; 
(6) sickness; (7) good health ; (8) strength, brightness; 
(9) happiness, comfortable journey ; (10) wealth, mental 
happiness; (11) achievement of ends, attainment of results; 
(12)' distress. 


Notes: (Refer notes—page 63, Verse No. 4). When consider- 
ing the Gochara (transit) effects of a planet, his Ashtakavarga 
alone, should be referred. Any planet while transitting a bhava 
will produce 8 different types of results depending upon his 
relative position from all the planets and the Lagna at birth. 


But these 8 types of results are not experienced all at the 
same time nor throughout the entire period of the transit in that 


1 In this chapter (a) the wrong readings are corrected in 
round brackets; (b) suggested correct readings are given 
in square brackets. 


sl. 1-5 ASHTAKAVARGA 233 


bhava. When a planet transits a Kakshya, he produces one and 
only one type of result, which is according to the bhava position 
he occupies from the position (at birth) of the lord of the Kakshya 
transitted. The results are good or bad according to the presence 
or absence of a bindu in that Kakshya in the Ashtakavarga of the 
transitting planet. 

In the Standard Horoscope when the Sun transits the Lagna 
bhava, (i.c., 1*-18°-39’ to 2*-18°-39’) he produces 8 types of results, 
good or bad, because he at that time transits the 6th bhava from 
Radical Saturn (bad); 9th bhava from Radical Jupiter (good); 
11th bbava from Mars (good); 10 bhava from his Radical posi- 
tion (good); 9th front Venus (bad); 10th from Mercury (good); 
9th from the Moon (bad) and the 1st bhava from the Lagna (bad). 

While transitting the 1st Kakshya from 1°-18°-39’ to 1%-22°-38" 
(in about 4 days) he is in the Kakshya of Saturn. He is in the 
6th house from the Radical Saturn and as there is no bindu in the 
Sun’s Ashtakavarga in that Kakshya, the result of the transit is 
unhappiness. (Ref. verse 24). 

The Sun, while transitting the 2nd Kakshya from 1*-22°-38? 
to 1°-26°-38/, is in the Kakshya of Jupiter. He is in the 9th house 
from the Radical Jupiter and as it comtains a bindu in the Sun’s 
Ashtakavarga, the results are attainment of wealth, Dharma (duty) 
and success. (Ref. verse 19). 

Similarly, from 2*-15°-9’ to 2°-18°-39" he is in the Lagna 
Kakshya. He is in the Ist house from the Lagna and as it contains 
no bindu the results are loss of honour, vehicle and friends. 
(Ref. verse 26). 

In this manner the transit results of all the planets should be 
interpretted, taking into account the Ashtakavarga of the tran- 
Sitting planet and his relative positions from the radical planets 
and the Lagna when passing through their respective Kakshyas. 

The great Acharyas give primary importance to the results of 
the transits of the planets, with reference to the Radical Moon 


only, 
HASTA TIANA TAT UU 


Tearprt st exhnskaron | 
aera Ritasy Tita 4 


234 ERAT: cHapPp. XVI 


eMart: Nergad Aad | 

aa THA: BW AAT TI § Il 
qaq aqaaa: Wa Ws TAT | 

Ua: Ga Aaa a gra 11 9 1 
Fat ATTRA SATTEH | 
algagarrenagay sas | ¢ | 

aa aod feagetafiaral ate wa 7 | 

aaa taulgerayerat ar ani Haq US 
aay Pera ard Frage a: | 
Tifa: VMRAHTAAIATAT AAT | Lo II 


Slokas 4-10 — (B) Beginning with the house occupied by 
the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) sorrow, fatigue in travel, 
poverty (pitiable condition), heart affliction, persecution 
by enemies ; (2) heavy expense, exertion, anxiety; (3) 
attainment of position, honour, wealth and Dharma (duty), 
affection and consequent happiness ; (4) impurity of blood, 
fever ; (5) distress from relatives and children; apprehen- 
sion from King ; (6) destruction of enemies, happiness, 
affection, good health ; (7) weakness due to blood im- 
purity, uneasiness, indigestion, agony ; (8) sickness to wife 
and children, ailment, loss of relations, trouble ; (9) piti- 
able condition, loss of position, sorrow in debate (due to 
defeat, etc.); (10) acquisition of gold and apparels or gain 
of land ; (11) sweetmeats, good health, position, mental 
happiness, fame ; (12) loss of fruits of labour. 


Renta :-— 
waaraacrn sate Raa ehreaarar 
Arte ala fala a gee azarae F | 
eqamla ala varaaqeseaaarterat 
Wed a Vee waala a gs: Sea | 
freed great Facts aga Terherfearar 
sas efa dar swafa a qantas | 


sl. 6-16 ASHTAKAVARGA 235 


Ta sae Taye Saud a aw 
agree: seals sag USA @ TUTTI 
aigeet age fee Faas 
MARSA aA Bilary AR | 
ware ard favaalt Barca Daazt 
Bal fraaaalt gedcaea sat a | 


ATMA: TAYSHAATT | 

Tala: A Tata TreraaraAaAG kk UI 
aa aifarerers steal Satya | 

GS Bear oebrafararaTey 1 8 
qusrata: ear: Toma HAT | 

ara wae iery saatterat 1 22 UI 


Slokas 11-13 —(C) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Mars in the natal chart ; (1) income of wealth and pros- 
perity ; (2) inflow of money ; (3) loss of prowess due to 
carelessness ; (4) brightness, strength, good health ; (5) 
sickness, anger through children ; (6) sickness ; (7) good 
health ; (8) destruction of enemies ; (9) sinlessness ; (10) 
attainment of position and desired effects; (11) conjugal 
happiness, brightness ; (12) grief, exertion. 


TUTTI Tere TA | 

HOE TT THT | Tararal THM UL VV A 

ATPASE Bel arTETATS | 

mraTatet at TA SRM FIRST a ATH U4 Ul 
HX Ee Ay JA Tey AETAATA: | 

BM AAPA MIITSTa: EIT | 2E I 


Slokas 14-16 — (D) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Mercury in the natal chart ; (1) frustration of ambition, 
sickness ; (2) quarrel ; (3) interested in getting pasition 
and wealth; (4) fatigue in journey, threat from 
enemies; (5) good fortune, blessedness; (6) gain 


236 abana: CHAP. XVI 


of honour and riches ; (7) agitation by women, imperfec- 
tion in speech ; (8) sickness ; (9) knowledge (learning) ; 
(10) praise from virtuous (elite) persons ; (11) and (12) 
obtaining position, riches and good fortune. 


Hae a Area Te | 
alfa: 3 Ta T TaeaTAAAAT 11-29 UI 


aga dghet Te ATTA Ta | 
qushteray aa Aleaageerat: Uke I 


wear fx aaa: TT | 
& caraaatasdae Rksqataa (23 


Slokas 17-19 — (E) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Jupiter in the natal chart ; (1) mental delusion, unhappi- 
ness ; (2) loss of wealth ; (3) loss of wealth and position, 
weakness of mind,; (4) contempt from relations; (5) 
happiness, honour, riches ; (6) mitigation of enemy perse- 
cution and sickness; (7) disillusionment, loss, exertion 
during travel ; (8) sickness, rancour, exertion during travel ; 
(9) attainment of wealth, Dharma (duty) and success; (10) 
loss of position ; (11) riches, happiness ; (12) dishonour. 


mash Rarrataaaaerat: | 
fedlasdagerteana see: Raa 1 Ro 1 
af dgRar: erdka aansftagay | 
qashatt: earner sifetyTaT URL A 
foam: wend wi ANT | 

ath: & aay ST ATTA 11-2? 


Slokas 20-22 — (F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart ; (1) sickness, pitiable condi- 
tion, exertion during travel ; (2) loss of wealth, injury to 
wife ; (3) quarrel with women ; (4) indifference of rela- 
tions ; (5) Asthmatic trouble, increase of enemies; (6) 
loss of enemies, attainment of position ; (7) brightness, 
conjugal happiness ; (8) trouble, unhappiness ; (9) anger, 


sl. 17-28 ASHTAKAVARGA 237 


cheating ; (10) and (11) loss of fame ; (12) attainment of 
honour and Dharma. 


Harermaay HACK aK | 

ie: afar qa TAlasdaaT | 23 II 
Goats: TSX Toler: Tawa | 

TIS get et TpATATA TT tl Ww I 
fox saa: NA: earn: a a TAT | 
TAN WAG Fe BT HAY VA U2 Il 


Slokas 23-25 — (G) Beginning with the house cccupied by 
Saturn in the natal chart; (1) fame, gain; (2) prospe- 
rity, fame ; (3) loss of wealth and reputation ; (4) renow- 
ned in the family ; (5) troubles in the family ; (6) un- 
happiness ; (7) attainment of great respect and food ; (8) 
loss of enemies, affection ; (9) attainment of position and 
riches ; (10) inclined to do good things; (11) riches ; 
(12) sickness. 


VAAUSTIASHST AAMAGTATT: | 

alfa: <4 aaa ora: TaeragerM | 2 A 
ae [at] @ At) TTasaRseAAT: | 
atta: GBsRRTT: RATSAT AAT It Vo 
forsasaantt: cergissaraaeaa: | 

AME Tse sy Heap: TH II Re II 


Slokas 26-28 — (H) Beginning with the Lagna in the natal 
chart ; (1) loss of honour, vehicle and friends ; (2) loss ; 
(3) gain, happiness through attainment of desired ends, 
loss of enemies ; (4) marital happiness ; (5) unnecessary 
travel, quarrel, exertion ; (6) fame, loss of sickness and 
enemies ; (7) anger, fear of theft in journey ; (8) distress 
due to weapons, enemy or fever; (9) contempt, imme- 
diate expense of acquired money ; (10) and (11) gain of 
cattle, wealth and land; (12) umnecessary exertion, 


happiness. 


238 aaa: CHAP. XVI 


THERA: 
— TI Teihsay | 
HISAR TMNT J AAV ATATIAT URS, 
sat alaghiaad atgnet a | 
TAT KA ge TATA AGATA UI Ze UI 


Slokas 29, 30 — The effects produced by the transit of the 
Moon through the various bhavas are as follows :— 


(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun 
in the natal chart ; (1) bodily afflictions ; (2) sickness due 
to travel ; (3) success, good health, contentment; (4) 
sickness to wife and relations ; (5) increase of enemies, 
quarrels ; (6) success, joy; (7) gain of riches through 
live-stock ; [ (8) good ; (9) bad ; (10) good ; (11) good ; 
(12) bad ]. 

Notes : Verses relating to results from the 8th to the 12th house, 
missing in the manuscripts. 


TAASATAS AeasAAT | 
feerifterrer aah carzrarat TREAT: 132 
PemaTaaTa: SaaS ala qatar | 

aa Bigs areaadaqeat | 32 | 
rasa sate TT APTA aad | 
qushera aed qaert: AS TAT I! 33 UI 
FIT: Glas TATA: | 

FEA Taser eaeHetsa FATAL Ut Be I 
aaa aad: Vgaarlaelaers: | 

TUT TEMAS HAMMAN TT | 3 A 

ala Raa aera || 
RID Srarecaerertarragq i) 35 


- 29-40 ASHTAKAVARGA 239 


Slokas 31-36 —(B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by her in the natal chart ; (1) enjoyment of woman, perfu- 
mes and good food, getting new friends; (2) fatigue, 
heavy expenses ; (3) gain of gold and apparels, happiness; 
(4) trouble from relations, sorrow, loss of wealth ; (5) 
loss of wealth, indigestion, disease, fatigue in travel ; (6) 
decrease of enemies ; good health, gain of riches and happi- 
ness; (7) getting wealth, bed-requisites (eq) and 
gold, marital happiness, re-union with relations; (8) 
worry over disease, quarrel and general loss of all; (9) 
loss of honour and riches, heavy expense ; (10) great res- 
pect, attainment of desired ends, mental happiness ; (11) 
acquisition of affectionate friends, wealth, food, bed, one’s 
own status in society ; (12) pitiable condition, idleness, 
state of being disagreeable. 
Realtat :-— 
aio aealeaseta wt us MERA | 
earaas aafistae ae ext a aeata az: I 


UATEAMGGTATT: TANS SAT | 

aie: AT TAT T daeeTrPiA I Bo 1 
TIAMAT WT GATTI | 

meat: gatas Malet a aafeag tt Fe 
figearand ated vavrarray | 

Fa THATS VarsTATTA | 3S Il 

ad piftaaica HiT T BAR | 
FASE Bey RATA | vo Ul 


Slokas 37-40 — (C) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Mars in the natal chart ; (1) sickness in journey, dissen- 
tions among friends ; (2) prowess ; (3) recipient of honour 
in debate ; (4) disease, anxiety and jealousy ; (5) expec- 
tation of command, great activity in the family and good 
health ; (6) happiness, loss of enemies; (7) bleeding 
wounds ; (8) disease, exertion in journey, confinement ; 
(9) increase of brightness and general prosperity ; (10) 


240 arena: cHap. XVI 


brightness, command ; (11) fame, gain of wealth ; (12) loss 
of money. 


TTA we Aaa: | 

Ta aati: SMacaTla: siesta ee 
aa aaa sll eal () 
BAA: WH AAT Teal 
CAAT FRA aH hs 
aamdindiaig: @ wlortseaat a7 1) 92 UI 


Slokas 41-43 (D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart ; (1) learning, honour, re- 
joicings in the family ; (2) loss of money ; (3) fame and 
brightness ; (4) sweet speech of morals and good purpose; 
(5) escape from evil reputation ; (6) humiliation through 
a wicked man; (7) mental happiness, knowledge; (8) 
gain of position and wealth ; (9) inclined to bad ways ; 
(10) sweet speech, intelligence, achievement of the ends 
(11) gain through lands ; (12), dependence. 


Parereraay aaa Fat | 
AAMATAL = ATA ASAT | VV UI 
BS Staaten sey eas: | 
pe al tala st a 


a al wage avatars: | 
See aes TRAY TAT 11 VE UI 


Slokas 44-46 — (E) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Jupiter in the natal chart ; (1) achievement of honour, 
wealth ; (2) animosity with wife’s friends’; (3) loss of 
self-respect and wealth; (4) conjugal happiness ; learn- 
ing, wealth ; (5) loss of position through enemies ; (6) 
sickness ; (7) conjugal happiness, apparels ; (8) riches, 
strength ; (9) mischief from relations, dishonour ; (10) 
loss of enemies ; (11) good meals, acquisition of conve- 
yance ; (12) abatement of disease, (getting) riches. 

Notes: The results mentioned for the 2nd and 12th houses 
are according to Brihat-jataka. 


sl. 41-54 ASHTAKAVARGA 241. 


Sage Almere: TASH aT | 4a 
ANT Tay airforce Neon : 
TIS: Bases FT Alaa: Tarkaaeasy | 

a8 Tay Fees Slaaaraeat tl ve | 

Wise DA WM HI TAA TAT | 

ara Gaaantietafeiaeag i es U 


Slokas 47-49 — (F) Beginning with the house sacapted 
by Venus in the natal chart ; (1) distraction (anxiety), quar- 
rel with women ; (2) loss of ornaments by forceful snatch- 
ing; (3) obtaining cattle and apparels, success; (4) 
gain of money through trade; (5) acquisition of food, 
respect and fame ; (6) disease, cpposition ; (7) obtaining 
women, apparels and wealth ; (8) disease ; (9) worship, 
success ; (10) riches ; (11) obtaining women, apparels and 
ornaments ; (12) loss of hilarity. 


TAMA TANS TANT | 

at aaerfer: egaanteeTaay Mt 4o 

aa qrasataat aa etey fab saz | 

a aed oonett: et Beat [ma Aa] U4 
ae Ta sate Zarate | aA: | 

qa TT Beat saa I 4? I 


Slokas 50-52 — (G) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) great hunger, injury due to 
stone ; (2) loss of wealth ; (3) fame through wealth ; (4) 
misfortune, rheumatic fever, etc. ; (5) wealth ; (6) wealth, 
strength ; (7) loss of progeny ; (8) trouble ; (9) blow or 
bruise, fever, indigestion, evil deeds ; (10) exestion ; (11) 
gain of wealth through cattle and servants ; (12) enmity 
of wicked people. - 


AAMC Fz Saerstotahaerar: | 
MATT: SI AAAI (43 
dare Geel TAMA: | 
aesheara ated ae AMSA TAT U4 UI 


ay 7 96 


242, STOR: cHaPp. XVI 


ascwtt: geese JaIMaaISM: | 
qa aerRE SHUT FT TAT 4S UI 
aaa ae aA afta az | 
aatead aaah Pram: FeTT |G UI 


Slokas 53-56 — (H) Beginning with the Lagna in the natal 
chart ; (1) fever, indigestion, vomitting, etc. ; (2) loss of 
honour and wealth, diseases ; (3) becomes endowed with 
honour, command and riches ; (4) loss of relations ; (5) 
trouble to children, loss of wealth ; (6) loss of enemies, 
good health ; (7) worry over money in travel ; (8) dis- 
tress in journey, sorrow duc to friends, hunger, wounds 
from weapons, fever ; (9) humiliation, trouble in journey, 
greed, delusion ; (10) achievement of the ends, happiness ; 
(11) happiness from female friends, good food ; (12) suf- 
fering due to labour, futility of results. 


WATER: 
mARBaTARa saaskort Aq | 
aeR A aly g teat Rees 1 Yo 1 


TAM TA AAG KFA Hz: | 
aed aaseaifaaen fz Faeaat 1 Ye 1 


maar AsitheAIaay | 
BIST earaaraaeaay sfgzahFeaat tl 4 UI 


Slekas 57-59— The effects produced by the transit of 
Mars through the various bhavas are as follows :— 


(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun 
in the natal chart; (1) danger from fire; (2) bilious 
troubles ; (3) gain of gold and copper, loss of enemies ; 
(4) ailments of body; (5) acquisition of honour 
and progeny ; (6) success, good health; (7) prolonged 
sickness after journey ; (8) pain due to poison ; (9) loss 
of command, fear from enemies ; (10) relief from enemy 
persecution ; (11) gain in position and honour ; (12) loss 
of intellectual power, worry. 


sl, 55-65 ASHTAKAVARGA 243. 


agra THaaraeraes | 

may casay Seat aT tay Ul Go UI 
HATTA ATTA AT | 

TA SA saveR MAA tsawstaAaz 1 &2 A 
dhe RaMetsaaetreian: | 

WH TVA FH AABTAATATT tt §2 UI 
aastarfa: Siteretaasraa: | 

a4 Fula: Taney aTsey 1&3 UI 
MARSA sasat Wy TAT | 
WA Viafs: FRA ATTA th GU 
BIN YAAATATATATAy: FAT: | 
AME Se: Tats PHT HN & UI 


Slokas 60-65 — (B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart. (1) Rheumatic fever, fire 
burn, snake bite, wounds ; (2) reverses, jealousy, sickness, 
howling in distress, confinement; (3) plenty of food, 
contentment, brightness, honour ; (4) fever, sickness, dis- 
gust, aimless actions ; (5) anxiety due to enmity and child- 
ren, loss of wealth, fear of theft, wounds; (6) loss of 
enemies, gain of honour, mental happiness ; (7) loss of 
wealth, troubles to women folk, afflictions to sense organs, 
Diarrhoea ; (8) fear from poison, enemy or disease ; 
wounds from weapons ; (9) censure (abuse), wounds from 
weapons, loss; (10) fear of discase and theft, anguish, 
little happiness, wounds from weapons ; (11) gain of land, 
copper, honour, attainment of command ; rejoicings in the 
family ; (12) dissention caused by women, anxiety, diseases 
of the feet. 


Raat :— 
ara: Deh aaa waldo 
aay a aaals fici Aaatead = | 
a4 aa) saala seal eis 
Wadd VA FOGG WT Il 


e 


244 TORT: cnap. XVI 


wana fraraeat Gataeaat ar 
aoa ace &: ga ylaqs: | 
Rysseaas daaiea a oz 
asaay vad adaralageay, | 
POTS ASASW NIA 
sRaaelea aaraararssa | 
He aaa shaalsdarnfahi- 
faataanitacaaeee tra: 
Zag T afer: a: @ ganas aA | 
ata: Gal Wa Tread wadezeag STAI: II 


ArereemsaasAaat FF | 

facie eactaranrftacaaregttar 11 8S 

Be farsi: META Ba | 

qEskaat yA MEAT FT | Go Il 

fSxsdenat aiiseoafe: @ ate? 

TY ANGE: SleaeTT HAT Ge 
Slokas 66-68 — (C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) acquisition of wealth, suc- 
cess ; (2) obtaining gold and honour ; (3) calumny ; (4) 
acquisition of friends and wealth ; (5) dissatisfaction, loss, 
of money ; (6) cheating by enemies, sickness ; (7) abate- 
ment of grief and sickness ; (8) wealth, honour ; (9) sinful 


thoughts ; (10) devoted to social work ; (11) obtaining 
gold and progeny ; (12) loss of women, falsehood. 


arerarenay ay maraTiaS A | 

aged [3] Baa STS Teal 
Ta waltdara: gaa areas | 

GS a; AifaaTAaT AleISeATATTRT TA II 90 I 
qaisey qasagqraar @ [& ] daa: | 
soley 3 wy ladaserata: | 92 UI 


Slokas 69-71 — (D) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Mercury in the natal chart; (1) increase of vice and 


sl. 66-77 ASHTAKAVARGA 245 


enemies ; (2) indifferent to the family affairs ; (3) lord of 
wealth, enjoyments; (4) fear from one’s enemies; (5) 
getting progeny and wealth ; (6) fame, respect, money ; 
(7) deluded while in travel, sickness to women ; (8) con- 
finement ; (9) disregard in the end caused by wicked 
people ; (10) jealousy, apathy ; (11) gain through land ; 
(12) fear of theft during journey. 


Sfaremregsisacay Tit: TeaTTSHAA: | 
AMAT A FRA AASTR 1 92 
aa [3] sagan frais: aa | 
aleraaral Ret qa ATTA CET 83 I 
Wnsey aa afaararaisaaiaed S | 


TITAT AAAS ATATTATAg: I 98 


Slokas 72-74— (E) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Jupiter in the natal chart; (1) internal disease, wound 
from weapons caused by enemies ; (2) mental worry, loss 
of money ; (3) fresh dissentions amongst relations ; (4) 
fever, affliction to private parts ; (5) sickness due to bilious 
disorders, fear from enemies ; (6) fame, wealth, honour ; 
(7) insult to wife, sickness ; (8) disease ; (9) loss ; (10) 
favour of honour and wealth ; (11) gain of progeny and 
wealth ; (12) henour, wealth, fame. 


TRG TAA HAST | 

waste: aan Perera: HeTAT | 9% II 
STN taste FAA | 

ag: 8 aa amt: waar a4 TA I 8 II 
aA HAH: VATA FT HAT | 

Bly Canigamiatanetaeawag |) oo | 


Slokas 75-77 — (F) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Venus in the natal chart ; (1) sickness due to phlegm or 
blood impurity ; (2) danger from fire ; (3) dissention from 
female friend, quarrel ; (4) wound ; (5) danger from fire, 
confinement, dispute with relatives ; (6) prosperity ; (7) 
loss of women ; (8) wealth, happiness ; (9) disorders of 


246 arent: cuap, XVI 


blood ; (10) agony, misfortune ; (11) obtaining gold and 
progeny ; (12) getting apparels. 


Aer Talate: FA AA | 
Ales TASTT ea sé II 


BAA TA GY AMSASTTATA: | 
gated eared (2) feasherratare tt 0% Ut 
wasIeM: Wed aTaTATHlA: Ta | 

BA MSATAUSA APPAAISAEH tl co Ul 


Slokas 78-80 —(G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) acquisition of wealth ; (2) 
loss ; (3) enmity, beating, general weakness; (4) gain, 
activity (enthusiasm); (5) loss of health of progeny, loss 
of wealth ; (6) fear of enemies, sickness ; (7) and (8) abate- 
ment of threat from enemies and exertion; (9) gain of 
wealth and respectability ; (10) favour of honour and 
wealth ; (11) fame, wealth, achievement of ends; (12) 
fatigue in travel, eye disease. 


BAATSAAA MA He SIAaNAT: | 
THATIAderia: TI Araiiaeaaay 2 Ul 


TTA tat Sharada aa | 
qBsatshera avi aa qeiarrTRy llc? A 


fox frasad 3 aentiendaay | 

ad Rqzaaat ae afadayq ut ¢3 UI 
STATIN SAT AAT | 

Say Waa: Taal TERT Cv UI 


Slokas 81-84— (H) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Lagna in the natal chart; (1) brightness, com- 
mand, loss of enemies, rejoicings ; (2) loss of position, 
wealth and reputation ; (3) cessation of enemy persecu- 
tion ; (4) fall in position (status), loss of strength ; (5) 
affliction to wife and progeny, dread; (6) wealth, loss 
of enemies, merriment ; (7) ailments in private parts, eye 
disease, bilious troubles ; (8) bilious fever, enmity, danger 


sl. 78-92 ASHTAKAVARGA 247 


from weapons, blood disorders ; (9) misfortunes caused 
by enemies ; (10) relief from enemy persecution; (11) 
gain of gold, copper vessels, etc; (12) diseases of foot 
and eye, fear from thieves. 


TTA: 
TASHA TETRA: | 
madara: areal Rerrtisgg llc’ I 
FEIT TAT TILT TA: TAA | 
THA Re TA Serta: Ck A 
i532 eaeal ad fartataesas: | 
AVA J TYSIahisesy TAGITaT ll 9 || 


Slokas 85-87 — The effects produced by the transit of Mer- 
cury through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun 
in the natal chart ; (1) decline of manly appearance ; (2). 
loss of progeny ; (3) loss of friends, increase of enemies ; 
(4) family dissention ; (5) fame, happiness ; (6) obtaining. 
progeny and wealth ; (7) abuse from enemies, loss during 
travel ; (8) sickness, quarrel ; (9) acquisition of learning, 
courage, wealth ; (10) inauspicious ; (11) obtaining cattle 
and land ; (12) happiness born of knowledge. 

TAR ATTY AAMT: | 

a 

wat a Rrararerratataaday Ul ce 

ala whyat ga aragueagha: | 

TEM TT GAT TA TETAT Ul C2, 

afefian Getearer: agaral Kae | 

orfentdaracatit yaad I So 

afarare feat Riaisrsiierat | 

aH aMsTaTaSHTRAARAA FB Se Ul 


aramafentaatatatea aan | 
smattad TaTzeTET AT HATTA 11 SR Ul 


248 awa: cHap. XVI 


Slokas 88-92 — (B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) loss of honour, learn- 
ing and friends ; (2) relief from enemy troubles, sorrow 
and scandal; (3) sickness, enmity with relations; (4) 
honour, appreciation of character, joy ; (5) loss due to in- 
difference and anxiety ; (6) thoughts about prosperity, 
happiness, activity, destruction of enemies ; (7) disappoint- 
ment in ambition, pitiable condition ; (8) increase of favour, 
help in various ways ; (9) obstacles and censure in travel ; 
(10) achievement of ends and wealth; (11) obtaining 
women, quadrupeds, friends ; acquisition of honour ; (12) 
anxiety, futile labour. 


Beatie -— 
fraad Braauked want vaaqsaed Aad Foe | 
gademay seqadwled ge mrad saafa ara: Ul 
TAM HSA: WAY FENG | 
TIEY TAROT ASAT | 83 
 aaftager: ga FF TEU: | 
— aileat fara Pratttadateaa tl Se 
© wey slayer wa aTATIAgAT | 
SAAR VASA: TTT 1 8 
Slokas 93-95—(C) Beginning with the house occu- 
pied by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) attainment of desired 
ends ; (2) getting good results ; (3) fear of impeachment 
from others ; (4) gain of honour, fame and friends ; (5) 
heavy expenditure ; (6) pitiable condition in travel ; (7) 
getting women and apparels ; (8) respect from the public ; 


(9) increase of honour and wealth ; (10) fame, command, 
contentment, happiness ; (11) wealth ; (12) sin. 


MATT BEY AASAFAAA: | 

wy cafartetreardashetrT | 85 tt 
RUA FA TA TA TY | 
Fy aeat Ae AAMT FS I 


‘sl. 93-104 ASHTAKAVARGA 249 


foe Sanaa gmat asda | 
OA WeUlaaia: Feraarydeay | Se A 


Slokas 96-98 —(D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by him in the natal chart ; (1) gain in knowledge, rejoicings 
in the family ; (2) transgressing the moral codes (of Smri- 
tis); (3) decrease of enemies and sickness ; (4) sickness 
due to indifference, exertion, contempt ; (5) fame, wealth ; 
(6) destruction of enemies and sickness ; (7) exertion, con- 
tempt; sickness; (8) threat from enemies; (9) good 
behaviour, wealth ; (10) respect on account of wealth ; (11) 
obtaining land, gold and apparels; (12) respect from 
friends, good food. 


SitarerarerTA Te eet: | 

seearianta: @ Beast aaIsaT | 88 I 

GA Hensel Nes FA ATaTaaTy: | 

a: TATU TSeI Tet A: I Loe I 

fet warned g antadisrtteaq | 

x bay) bes eo 

ASH TRTT BH IE AHAISTT | 208 MN 
Slokas 99-101 — (E) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Jupiter in the natal chart; (1) loss of Icarning and 
wealth ; (2) disappointment in getting goed friends ; (3) 
loss of happiness and vigour ; (4) quarrel, temptation ; (5) 
loss of respect and wealth; (6) success, good health of 
progeny ; (7) oppression, loss ; (8) getting wealth; (9) 
temptation on the way, physical pain ; (10) loss of wealth 
and fame ; (11) gain of desired objects ; (12) wealth. 


mae oy farerareatrarea: TANTR: | 

WET 4 TMT J Aselsa TS FAT 202 
del Tanta: 15 Wises | 
Tastee: Agee Hx AAT 803 UI 
qisdatattanta: Ssaeria: erat | 
MACACA otis Riza 11 Lov Ui 


250 sea: cHAP. XVI 


Slokas 102-104 — (F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart. (1) getting wealth through 
women; eager for progeny; (2) immense wealth ; 
(3) victory; (4) wealth; (5) getting cattle, land and 
progeny; (6) sickness, loss of wealth; (7) loss of 
wealth, sorrow through women ; (8) honour, happiness 
through: friends; (9) obtaining wealth, honour and 
friends ; (10) loss of money, exertion (fatigue); (11) 
mental happiness through wife, wealth and apparels ;. 
(12) loss of achievement. 


TAY A ATerareariaeat THA | 

ey rang haaa Aas: | Lo% II 

Ba F eifaaa fey garters: | 

SAVSAMA AAS AVF TATARAT ULF UI 
UNSEAT AI TMA: AASAMTAA: | 
MUTATASAT STA YET Se 1 Lo UI 


Slokas 105-107 — (G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) brightness, gaiety, oblig- 
ing nature ; (2) acquisition of wealth through land ; (3) 
anger due to disappointment and exertion in travel ; (4): 
joy and success ; (5) loss of wealth for progeny ; (6) fever, 
bruise from stone, gout; (7) good fortune; (8) gain; 
(9) gain of wealth and honour ; (10) attainment of posi-. 
tion ; (11) acquisition of land and gold ; (12) sickness. 


waaTeray Ask: Saeed (2) Fareaa: | 
drei qamiqaraged Taead Loe Ul 
maa tat aie | 
frardarafienat ore aides HU 208 Ul 
Serer: Gat 9B aleaetaar: | 

aM aaa FR Maer Mt Lo I 
Apiary Parrearaed | Tay | 

EY FAT SAAT FATA TIS FHL LZ Uh 


sl. 105-114 ASHTAKAVARGA 251 


aitrraertterearcayarerat | 
Mala: HEM STATIS AIT | LL 


Slokas 108-112 — (H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart ; (1) wealth, conjugal happiness, rejoicings in 
the family; (2) expansion of intelligence, obtaining 
wealth, proficiency in speech; (3) discord with wife, 
enmity with relations, loss of brightness; (4) gain 
of friends, respect, learning and fame ; (5) loss of health 
and wealth ; (6) brightness, wealth, intellect, progeny ; 
(7) inauspicious ; (8) satisfaction, pleasing, good health ; 
(9) fatigue in travel, dispute, sickness, enmity ; (10) marital 
happiness, good health, proficiency in Arts and elocution, 
strength ; (11) welfare of female friends and servants, 
acquisition of apparels and progeny ; (12) ill-reputation, 
quarrel. 


MATER: 


TAYSHTATSMNT fTTAAATALA | 
Sree ue 222 


aif qoflent® antanat a@ 4&1 
wy eae TARA AAT MEE UI 


Slokas 113, 114— The effects produced by the transit of 
Jupiter through the various bhavas are as follows :— 


(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun in 
the natal chart ; (1) acquisition of friends and wealth, 
cleverness ; (2) wealth ; (3) destruction of disease, poverty 
and enemies ; [ (4) auspicious ; (5) inauspicious ; (6) in- 
auspicious ; (7) auspicious ; (8) auspicious ;} (9) piety, 
happiness ; wealth; (10) attainment of ends, command, 
happiness ; (11) obtaining apparels and gold; (12) in- 
crease of enemies. 

Notes : One verse relating to results from the 4th to the 8th house, 
missing in the manuscripts. 


252 STEHT: cuap. XVI 


TIASSATTATUEMl ATASTA TATA: | 
MAA RY TATA: FATT ULL UI 
aaa Pratarat ant Baer az | 

aa staaata: czqaziswatay i 225 UI 


WHATAIGHY HMNaaasa Tay | 
qe dyfaaa: carewreaacreh: 11 220 UI 


TATATNUATIATAT TAT | 
may pad sa TTA Ul Le A 


THTATAG TASH arreTeeT TAT | 
HAT (AAMT LBA BAT 22S Ul 


ARI FHA Teed J SPAT | 
qeaaeaaeet Hy Beal AIT Ul Le Il 


Slokas 115-120 — (B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) temptation, loss of 
honour, position and wealth ; (2) acquisition of command, 
position, wealth, rejoicings in the family ; (3) loss of 
wealth on account of relations, failure of efforts, distress 
in travel ; (4) loss ef desired objects, censure, dishonour ; 
(5) gain of position, apparels and wealth, fulfilment of 
command ; (6) dispute with relations, loss of action, 
threat from opponents ; (7) acquisition of happiness, appa- 
rels, good food and women, honour from Kings; (8) 
confinement, sickness, dissention with relations, capital 
punishment ; (9) happiness through position, wealth, 
children, women, obtaining respect and land ; (10) over- 
come by phlegm and ophthalmia, loss of desired objects ; 
(11) gain of land, family rejoicings, domestic happiness ; 
(12) pitiable condition in foreign place, exertion. 


Rea — 
aha waft tafaiaarad=aht agai 
mate sot agagaaat sari Fe | 
gira Rafaarafaetala araleara st 
Baiada as ted agen il 


sl, 115-126 ASHTAKAVARGA 253 


gaara asaad usage ae 
98 afar deafea faa: wart cara: | 
ai aaratat afar set gare wR 
anigaaakgasaaa as wa: Sear II 
apa oa adahaafafe: saoqemnagarfeaier | 
ay Tema VE Tea aad TIA: II 
aEPNgA Te Teale: Bi Ta | 
Barat Tay T aaa PenARar 1 °Re 
at aaa wereR TAT | 
datagat WS AAMT TAN LZR UI 
RETA TE ATTRA: | 
& cararielorerey ernie Sea: 1 282 1 
Slokas 121-123 — (C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) getting vehicles, happiness; 
(2) happiness, wealth ; (3) agitation from enemies, quar- 
rels ; (4) acquisition of honour and friends ; (5) uncon- 
trollable anger ; (6) cheating, troubles ; (7) no disregard 
or censure ; (8) success, joy, help ; (9) loss of good luck ; 


(10) attainment of position, good behaviour ; (11) acquisi- 
tion of land and gold ; (12) expenses. 


TMNSTTA Sa aeeTTTTS A: | 

ara feel eaiceatanraertsagt 1 88v I 

Ba Tareas FA | 

qH Glerasaed ggoTrrealeTs: 1 884 A 

fsx amet ard aetingeaT | 

Asta Ay AUATaTA Feat S47 1 22E 
Slokas 124-126 — (D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart ; (1) joy, prosperity, increase 
of progeny ; (2) rise in position ; (3) loss of position and 
honour ; (4) acquisition of honour and Arts ; (5) acquisi- 


tion of fame and wealth ; (6) prosperity, fame, wealth ; 
(7) loss of virtue and favour ; (8) waste of good speech ;. 


254 arena: CHAP. XVI 


(9) excellence of speech and intelligence ; (10) wealth, 
(Dharma) duty; (11) happiness due to position and wealth; 
(12) stupidity. 


maa ey gates g FATS: TATA TAT 1! VV ll 
Taras Grea TRASH | 
AAMEANTS AMEMATITAT 11 LR UI 

wat Ratatat: wale & | 

TH TATA: ATT TITTEA THAT 1 LR Ul 


Slokas 127-129 — (E) Beginning with the house occupied 
by himself in the natal chart ; | (1) auspicious ;] (2) suc- 
cess and wealth ; (3) achicvement ; (4) auspicious ; ; (5) 
dispute, fatigue in travel ; (6) agitation by enemies ; (7) 
and (8) good food, affection for women, free from sick- 
ness ; (9) loss of position and intellect ; (10) attainment 
of position and fame ; (11) inflow of wealth, prosperity ; 
(12) exertion. 

Notes : One line missing in the manuscripts. 


TRIaTATETAAM ANT TACIT | 

Ta TAT: Aes Be: aRaVtSTM | Vo 
qa Tees aRasaa: FAA: | 
GUST aaserala: Hee: Ba i 232 I 
waiertrshiy at aaciala: | 

B gard wastrel gariseadeat 1) 232 


Slokas 130-132 — (F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart ; (1) sorrow, misfortune ; (2) 
wealth, marital happiness; (3) anger, quarrel through 
women ; (4) indifference from preceptor; (5) obtaining 
wealth, family rejoicings; (6) wealth, success over 
enemies ; (7) temptation during travel, quarrel with 
women ; (8) loss of happiness and wealth ; (9) honour, 
wealth and fame ; (10) happiness and wealth ; (11) acquisi- 
tion of wealth, women, and progeny ; (12) pitiable con- 
dition. 


-8l, 127-140 ASHTAKAVARGA 255 


Herheyaarsny TIA eT Aa | 

ere: [ facta Per araiirer aia i 233 Ut 
BUA Fars MYX THAT | 

gS qrsqatate: BansPwTETy 11 LR 
fexsaetheatter at arreaterat 
asftaetst ory 


CHET SHA THY I 2R4 

-Slokas 133-135 — (G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) dirty, bewilderment ; 
(2) loss of money ; (3) gain of wealth through land ,; 
(4) loss ; (5) efforts of the son, rejoicing ; (6) good dis- 
position, acquisition of wealth ; (7) distress, fatigue in 
travel, sickness ; (8) loss of wealth, sickness ; (9) danger. 
worm troubles ; (10) dispute with enemies; (11) inau- 
spicious ; (12) wealth. 


TATMATT ST CAAA: Is FAA: | 
Bay eat ated srry TaATAA: 11 234 
Nee aN 

arsenal ghaa dyicaaltar | 

aigared TST Tea Tt FA 1 230 1 

BACLT AM: WY Salas Tay | 

aot aarraaaigertaa aa il Le 1 

HOT HRT: UAT ATT: ATA: | 

aq eqraendgaag arty 1 238 I 

SAY UMA MATATIATTA: | 

ala TURE SAT FEAT Ve UI 
Slokas 136-140— (H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart ; (1) gain in land, wealth and horses, rejoicings 
due to birth of a child in the family ; (2) happiness in posi- 
tion, gain of riches and respect ; (3) anger, slander caused 
due to discord with relations ; (4) happiness from relations, 
acquiring friends, good disposition, wealth ; (5) dignity, 
honour ; (6) acquisition of wealth leading to fame ; (7) 


gain of women, happiness from apparels, perfumes, good 
food and other things ; (8) phlegmatic complaints, indiges- 


256 aTwRTT: CHAP, XVI 


tion, fatigue due to travel ; (9) acquisition of position, 
learning, wealth, progeny, virtue ; (10) esteem from King, 
attainment of command, inflow of wealth ; (11) obtaining 
good harvest, cattle and land ; (12) loss of earned wealth. 


THOT 
TASHA FAN TI Ta | 
BTM | GTAMaTt 7A Ul LV? UI 
ashore: Mad AAMAS | 
eS srs Ta | LVR I 
fz day aie ae Faarktoreaa: | 
& aang artsy stisel Freaerayz 1 223 I 


Slokas 141-143 — The effects produced by the transit of 
Venus through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun in 
the natal chart ; (1) repentance and little happiness ; (2) 
heavy expenditure ; (3) fear caused by discord with wife 
and children ; (4) increase of enemies and sorrows ; (5) 
exertion, break in travel, sickness ; (6) loss of affection, 
wealth and happiness ; (7) disappointments, quarrel with 
women ; (8) contentment, good health ; (9) anxiety caused 
by enemies and travel; (10) misfortune; (11) gain; 
(12) sweetmeats, gain. 


SAG IC RS RCI CCIDICCEEE | 
BS] STATA J (qT) Talay: | Wve 
cefgaaiarAaa TATA VI | 

x Qyaenlaarates a Faq 1 2B 1 
ara Paral any Renta fegheaa | 
AUTTANANAT: FACT Ta (LE Il 
AY Pad Susaraeien aaq | 
ad Sifarn: aed Tata: Fa ll V9 I 
watt cad fae a aataraa: | 
TY Aa azaTA a ASATRTAT Mt LE II 


sl. 141-151 ASHTAKAVARGA 257 


Slokas 144-148 — (B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) obtains marital hap- 
piness and wealth ; (2) acquisition cf wealth, women ; (3) 
joy, respect from women, land, garments ; (4) happiness 
from wife, children, wealth, friends and good food ; (5) 
great activity in the family, fame of the family, happiness 
from friendship ; (6) pitiable condition, dispute, disease, 
rancour ; (7) anxiety caused by debts, travel and women ; 
contact with bad friends; (8) marital happiness, fame, 
mental joy ; (9) happiness of female friends, Dharma, 
acquisition of wealth, preceptor’s grace ; (10) enmity from 
own relations, obstacle, disrespect; (11) respect from 
women, bed-requisites ; (12) apparels, obtaining land and 
good food. 


meatier — 
afer fans Rafa 
gauechafe qavied fag | 
feala gafadsi aa ar carla 
aoranaadaataeaktat 


Aaennfad aed dara: @ 7 tay: 
aa ear: gat Prefers: 11 22911 


ata —aa waar at 
HAE AINA TASTY: FASE Il Ve I 


gag fort af dada a 
wea: GAA TA BRST TA 4? Ul 


Slokas 149-151 — (C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) loss of women ; (2) con- 
finement ; (3) joy, honour, wealth ; (4) bewilderment ; 
(5) courage, firm resolve ; (6) withdrawal of enemy due 
to great respectability ; (7) unhappiness, sorrow through 
women and children ; (8) misfortune, weakness ; (9) joy, 
success in debates; (10) loss of hoarded wealth; (11) 
acquisition of land and gold; rejoicings on account of 
children ; (12) accumulation of wealth. 


a. qf. 1 


258 anal: CHAP. XVI 


Notes: The results mentioned for the 4th and 5th houses are 
are according to Brihat-jataka. 


THEAMMTIAT Seater Al: Ta | 
AHTAAMA F DraaTT | 242 tt 
we wae: erg sey araigareaa: | 
Roan Reqs Radsatesay | 243 II 
fez dacena: eaeararalged sat | 

& sealers: Brad sqaheag | Lv I 


Slokas 152-154 — (D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart ; (1) bodily ailments ; (2) 
loss of wealth ; (3) annihilation of enemies and sickness ; 
(4) loss of honour and wealth ; (5) position, apparels, 
progeny ; (6) maritime profits; (7) loss of prospective 
work ; (8) loss of memory and strength ; (9) obtaining 
honour and wealth ; (10) break in religious vow ; (11) 
wealth ; (12) reverses. 


ATTA Bh Parag: aa: | 

Fara BA eagaewAsATH (2) 1 Vas Ut 
FASMAPRAT: TMAYTTA: Ga | 

TE WATAN TA TATA ATAAEA 1 24S II 
ay TIANA: Asatiq: TNaAea: | 

BIA AIA SY BAAN SATH 1 24 II 


Slokas 155-157 — (E) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Jupiter in the natal chart; (1) loss of mental power 
and profits ; (2) fear of enemies ; (3) loss of Dharma ; 
(4) indigestion and accumulation of phlegm ; (5) posi- 
tion, land and progeny ; (6) sickness ; (7) increase of 
enemies; (8) attainment of position, good health, food; (9) 
cleverness of speech, wealth ; (10) gain of wealth, appre- 
ciation from master ; (11) accumulation of much wealth ; 
(12) loss of effort, ill health. 


sl. 152-164 ASHTAKAVARGA 259 


TRENT We arreray | 

Aas A Tha g wah: SAT T Ta: I Le 

oe atqarnseea farages: | 

GaSe BATA 11 249, 1 

fee He: ai a @ HaagT Taz | 

Dafliseny Frama | ko | 
Slokas 158-160 — (F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by herself in the natal chart ; (1) acquisition of Learning 
and wealth ; (2) marital happiness ; (3) attainment of 
position, gain by gambling ; (4) respect from relations ; 
(5) gain of intelligence, honour and nourishment ; (6) 
loss of wealth, distress in journey ; (7) loss of efforts and 
wealth ; (8) affection; (9) auspicious; (10) affection, 
physical comforts ; (11) prosperity ; (12) insult from low 
caste people. 


HVE ARat FD Azra: | 

TA VereTAy T Maher 1 282 A 
erat: @ da enriertdaay | 
SUAMTAT: TW] Tt T TITS M282 II 
TAA ARa BF HafArSea Ti | 

ae & dhagardaia feserdisaq 1 283 


Slokas 161-163 — (G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) quarrel and enmity with 
low caste people; (2) sickness; (3) accumulation of 
cattle and wealth ; (4) getting friends and wealth ; (5) 
attaining position ; happiness, wealth ; (6) distress, neglect, 
disease ; (7) ailment in private parts ; (8) position, fame, 
happiness ; (9) achievement of ends; (10) happiness ; 
(11) marital happiness, wealth ; (12) want of money. 


BOTTA Gh MTA ST AA | 
@ itearet gaa eacigeniyeray i 22 UI 


260 WHAT: cuap. XVI 


ae ataetprr fa aaa: | 

GE ATTA AL eet Geof fAAAAT Ut EE UI 
fe ararattattta: aura TAT (2) | 
aera Fat Tavis aq aaaq it VE Il 


afigarietcatat witataraat Aad | 
area: Ta Sas Saleen HUH Ul 2h9 UI 


Slokas 164-167 — (H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart; (1) acquiring cattle, wealth and apparels ; 
(2) happiness due to affection ; (3) acquiring gold, pearls 
etc. ; (4) getting women, house, cows, ornaments; (5) 
yearning for the wife ; (6) fatigue in cravel, enmity ; (7) 
opposition from wife ; (8) getting variety of food and 
drinks ; (9) esteem ; (10) inferiority, aversion, inclined to 
evil ways; (11) attainment of precious stones such as 
jewels, pearls, etc. ; (12) loss of money, fatigue in journey, 


loss of memory. 
TART: 

Fes NYetsarcas: | 
asRaraeardha a arraiitrersa: tt 2&< I 
qqated gard goles a | 
FE: WAI Tt SGA Taq tl 2&3 UI 
smfaaabax Tatra Ar: | 
B MAGVatasy TAS WATTA: | Vo | 


Slokas 168-170 — The effects produced by the cransit of 
Saturn through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun in 
the natal chart ; (1) affection, joy, wealth, progeny ; (2) 
loss of enemies; (3) decline in honour, brightness and 
strength ; (4) happiness of relations; (5) agitation in 
family, sickness ; (6) quarrel ; (7) happiness through wo- 
men and children; (8) relief from sickness, loss of 


sl. 165-176 ASHTAKAVARGA 261 


enemies ; (9) inclined to sinful ways; (10) progress in 
duty ; (11) happiness of wealth ; (12) waste of efforts. 
TTRSAMTAS TPAPTATTACT | 
aaa Pras sat FT oaTAT 1) 202 1 
adaster: aed arent aq | 
TIMI TMATATART TA: | 292 II 
daa qaata: candy Rafaaan: | 
GS TI: Ahet TASTA HIAAT 2003 1 
eat Tider: CUETATETAT AA: | 
Tearerafrat sfeifaeraes | 208 MI 
a oer Ae gaarTETaT Had | 
alaaaer Jers: Fea S (2) 11 QW U1 


CHAD TRINA TAGTAT | 
Jerygorhldtat aA: waTaeT Fy SAT 1) 9% UI 


Slokas 171-176 — (B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) confinement, fatigue in 
travel, rheumatism ; (2) wound by weapons, distress by 
poison, expense, exertion ; (3) loss of enemies ; happiness, 
honour and gain ; (4) disregard from relations ; (5) loss 
of progeny ; fall in position and duty ; (6) loss of enemies ; 
happiness, wealth, gain; (7) loss of brightness, rheuma- 
tism, exertion ; (8) dejected due to many responsibilities, 
fear from enemies ; (9) sickness, exertion, enmity, loss of 
money ; (10) loss of money, duty and fruits of labour ; 
(11) acquisition of wealth through dairy products, servants 
and beautiful women; (12) loss of action, proficiency, 
fame and position. 


meathtent — 
Watahaa sagas enmxadant 
sharaiama zAngaaaa-ga aaeaz | 
einen agageleaaaraand 
wraraeard ala seatarhaa: Bay 


262 START: cHaAP. XVI 


aka Ae fqaafaed fag gry 
sala aes sae Aras Vt ar | 
Heareaneren aga eases 
feufa starmizaciakt: ataacarltara 1) 


ATTA TRY Sa BHAT Vr: | 

STURT T CUTATSAAAT U1 29 tI 

yaeisanart saeTataTAS | 

eB Gudea ga FerTM: | Boe Ul 

aM Tard FR Wasa a AAT | 

aeaatafag: BSA SAT HTT Ta 1 298 1 
Slokas 177-179 — (C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) misery, weakness, sickness : 
(2) loss of wealth ; (3) activity, freedom from enmity : 
(4) increase of various difficulties (obstacles); (5) obtain- 
ing progeny, command and wealth ; (6) thoughts of virtue 
at the time of prosperity ; (7) enmity, exertion, sickness ; 
(8) wounds, danger from fire ; (9) extreme jealousy ; (10) 
getting happiness, wealth and honour; (11) gains; 
(12) happiness. 

TEMTETTY AEST THT SATA | 

age Rata areata rags tt Xo 1 

TS Teahrarat Her garaanee: | 

TT) TSTAA: A AA TAAWTATSTA ll Le? 

fegsad ad ad & adie | 

¢ 
ara yeaa eratrtraaaag It Le? I 


Slokas 180-182 — (D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart ; (1) pecuniary and bodily 
troubles, disobedience of command ; (2) distraction ; (3) 
agitation due to lack of support from own party; (4) 
breach of trust of friends; (5) cognisance of misdeeds 


sl. 177-188 ASHTAKAVARGA 263 


(offences) of progeny ; (6) good virtues, wealth, fame ; 
(7) adopting to bad terms ; (8) happiness ; (9) auspicious ; 
(10) actions arising after mature thoughts and words ; 
(11) obtaining servants and cattle ; (12) honour. 


Maree Teethers | 
Gaeta: Bea eaeeeat Tata %<3 11 
tat ageqdien: gafaaaa: a | 
TASH aT fet Sedtery i Lev 


seats: carga @ Setteay | 
RPT: MT BTA Aeuraaqeraeag Vc II 


Slokas 183-185 — (E) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Jupiter in the natal chart; (1) weakening of intelli- 
gence ; (2) loss of things which are auspicious ; (3) bodily 
weakness ; (4) troubles from relations ; anxiety ; (5) acqui- 
sition of progeny and wealth ; (6) fame; (7) sickness to 
wife ; (8) bodily troubles; (9) reproach (insult) from 
servants and low caste people; (10) bodily ailments ; 
(11) gain with little efforts; (12) esteem from good 
people. 


RMT Tetelea: Tt | 
IMMAATA FT BAGTAI tl 24 I 
POARGA TA TIAA: Ta | 
GUSaAaa: ATMEAT GA; | Lev I 

a avr siswafecaafead | 
CTA AAAS DAA | Lee I 


Slokas 186-188 — (F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart; (1) trouble to self and to 
women; (2) loss of wealth; (3) sorrow and anxiety in 
confinement ; (4) quarrel with wife; (5) troubles in 
journey, exertion; (6) gain of wealth, state of being 
beyond avarice ; (7) and (8) sickness ; (9) pitiable condi- 
tion; fatigue in journey; (10) want of everything 


264 ART: cHap. XVI 


(poverty); (11) gain of position, wealth, affection and 
brightness ; (12) auspicious. 


HATTA FS TAAL | 

qatar Taras: IVT |) cS I 

gaara fe  eaaaaiay | 

athena aa fk oat 1 20 I 

oR AAAT BATA TAT | 

SRSAPAMT AMAA ATT AIT | VRE Il 
Slokas 189-191 — (G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by him in the natal chart ; (1) wound from weapons, sick- 
ness; (2) sorrow; (3) attainment of virtue; (4) loss 
(wastage); (5) happiness due to progeny ; (6) rise in 
position and wealth; (7) sickness to wife, fatigue in 
travel ; (8) disease, loss of wealth ; (9) loss (of gain); 
(10) loss of fruits of labour ; (11) gain of progeny and 
wealth in many ways ; (12) fear during journey. 

BRATTA FT ATA TTT | 

TATA: SMA CTAT UN LAR 

Tadthed Aas TAVITA AAT | 

onary Rea TMT | 233 UI 

wrariaraaad amet BaAT 

etertaaPax TTT BW ll LFV UI 

Area Fel FICAM TSsIAy way | 

TH AageataatasaaAatseAy | LA4 II 


Slokas 192-195 — (H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart ; (1) honour, leadership in village ; (2) loss of 
wealth and ill fame ; (3) attainment of desired ends ; (4) 
happiness of family and wealth; friendliness; (5) 
activity (to increase) one’s pride; (6) good health, loss 
of enemies ; (7) afterbirth sickness of the wife, exertion ; 


sl. 189-196 ASHTAKAVARGA 265 


(8) loss of women, progeny and wealth ; (9) long sickness; 
(10) prosperity ; (11) acquisition of women, cattle and 
iron ; (12) birth of dispute leading to misfortune. 


MATA TANI ASA ATTATA, | 
wate deat waar Heal TA: 11 22k i 


Sloka 196 — The Sun and Mars give results (good or bad) 
in the first portion of a bhava ; Venus and Jupiter in the 
middle portion of a bhava; Saturn and the Moon in the 
last portion of a bhava and Mercury throughout the 
bhava. 


FESTA H— 
Rae as Test wae wea | 
gaat Afiaed afraaa: cece adaIe7 | 
aadt:— 
TARRY aad shard gorge aaeaaaia | 
TARA as Aaans ataaa: Tee 2a |I 
ahuanez:— 
feaigatar we cass Fee) UA | 
aeatud staftat adteq Raat a: aHsslt Be II 
aedttrear— 
fiaqarast uke gasgeaAn uBraeaReTal 
deaferard) URaAA ARaaayAG wel aas1e7z (I 
Sree atest: — 
aaa TiMsTeaysaad aac | 
MAPA Feat: HAT ARIGe: sHoMeTsIE: aT II 
STRSTR RTT: — 
aa Tealaral TEPR FT Aaa | 
wal Tee TIGA F aa II 


Notes : Kalaprakasika says that Saturn and Rahu give good or 
bad results in the last part of the bhava while Mercury and the 
Moon give throughout the bhava. 


266 ATR: cHaP. XVI 
GUTTA FATTY | 
eae Tea TT TETANAAT I 829 
Sloka 197 — When the Dasa is good, the good effects will 
be on a larger scale, and bad effects will be on a smaller 
scale. Conversely, when the Dasa is bad the good effects 
will be reduced while bad effects will be increased accord- 
ing to the strength of the planet. 
Notes: If a planet is associated with more than 4 binds in his 
Ashtakavarga or more than 28 bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga 
and is powerful according to the Shadvargabala or bhava posi- 
tion, he gives good effects on a large: scale. The bad effcets are 
on a larger scale if the planer is associated with less bindus and 
is not powerful as above. 


CHAPTER XVII 


EFFECTS ARISING FROM PLANETARY POSITIONS 
AT BIRTH 


As the verses explaining the method of application of the 
effects were found to be corrupt and difficult to interpret correctly, 
their inclusion here has been deferred. 

The following is an attempt to give the gist of the meaning 
implied by the verses :— 

1. Observe the number of bindus and rekbas in the house 
occupied at birth by a planet (in his Bhinnashtakavarga). 

2. From the planet’s longitude find out which octave (i.c., 
Kakshya) of that bbava is occupied by him. Note whether the 
lord of that Kakshya has donated a bindu or rekba. If there is 
a bindu the good effects enumerated under that Kakshya for that 
planet will take place ; when there is a rekba the bad effects 
mentioned under that Kakshya will take place. 

3. (a) When the planet is associated with 8 bindus (in that 
bhava) the effects mentioned will take place to the fullest extent ; 
with 7 bindus, to the extent of 7/8 ; with 6 bindus, 3/4 etc., etc. 
Even with one bindz only, in that bhava, the native will experience 
1/8 of the benefic results, if this bivdu happens to be in the 
Kakshya occupied by the planet. 

(b) Conversely, if a planet is associated with a rekba in the 
Kakshya occupied by him, the native will experience the bad 
results mentioned under that Kakshya for the planet (considered) 
to the extent of 1/8, 1/4, etc., etc., according to the number of 
rekhas in that bhava, ie., 1, 2, etc., etc. 


TMETIMNTTT | 
Taare: oral RA ae TTA % | 
Raine eased Waastd ae i 
fodder: sacrart sraatrd fraayaeyy 2s | 
Reged qatate satahest Het asa 1-2 UI 


268 SORT: CHAP, XVII 


aati: aera said eaysaTet THe: ASA + | 
Reagan at rae aad aatieg tt 3 1 
AIT: TIAA Ss Hela Hey Tes galery ++ | 
ast Gert syed Talferd raat TAA U8 HI 
Ria Her Gey CaM ae CATIA TeTAT + | 
Ford TINS Tea gaa UW UI 
gaiheaed wma W Raa Aarary A Ta x | 
aa yer MATT TITATAZ Ut & Ul 
Monga AG aWAeN at ATA ag Ahan: = | 
TANT TEMA arrals TRANS I 0 UI 
WAS GTI: Tad Tenia x | 
remand aad Galt caritaed vHals arg: Ul ¢ I 
Slokas 1-8--The general effects arising from the Sun’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows :— 

Ist Kakshya: Courage ; ownership of elephants and 
horses ; association with friends and religious people and 
freedom from diseases. 

2nd Kakshya: Great valour ; abundance of wealth ; 
victory over enemies ; avidity for learning ; royal favours 
and a tranquil mind. 

3rd Kakshya: Truthfulness ; serenity ; no worry over 
expenditure ; respect from virtuous people ; endowment 
of gold, progeny and riches; discrimination and good 
character. 

4th Kakshya: Honour from all people; robust 
health ; good character ; honour from ruler ; good luck ; 
fame ; a pious and philanthropic nature. 

5th Kakshya: Ownership of cows, buffaloes and 


camels ; chief person in the family ; favours from rulers ; 
self-control and devotion to Brahmins and God. 


sl. 3-15 ASHTAKAVARGA 269 


6th Kakshya: Destruction of enemies ; a desirable 
person to women; devotion to preceptors and God ; 
abundance of wealth and plenty of food and beverages. 


7th Kakshya: Acquisition of women ; noble-minded- 
ness ; endowment with authority ; interest in sciences and 
a great warrior. 


8th Kakshya: Acquisition of progeny and wealth : 
excess of good blood and biliousness ; undying fame : 
self-control and destruction of enemies. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the Sun (4*-29°-40’) occupics 
the 5th Kakshya in the 4th bhava, and is associated with a bind, 
i.e, Wenus the lord of that Kakshya has donated a bindu to the 
Sun (Ref. Sarvachanchachakra chart, page 64). The native will 
experience the good results mentioned in verse No. 5. As the Sun 
is associated with 5 bindus in that bhava, the proportion of the 
results will be 5/8 of the whole possible. 


Regferaisk: saat ad waAsAy TsragaTTy | 
Bl SA Tana Garett Hered 3S UI 

qe Pav g an Beha eat searnaatay x | 
Rrafdar[Perjasrtraget: atid tera: 12 ol! 
aaadtd Ger THY qardar’: afarsid a + | 

aan aggre Arahat a as aA ee 

feel Hoard Tea] oh HOA Tel Fad Ta 2 | 
gefdats Ware Tf asa: Aaa MN 22 IU 

HO Ae: Be taakad Saartaada Meayq x | 
chat werent at carats BPBTT M23 
q@ Rua: weap: said at satsraAT | 
ara aft afer sad earalgaaeaAey 11281! 
Pruett Rad card qreranieted aa x | 

BOT ATS: GE aaHiera: eas HAS gAyTT Ne 


270 aR CHAP. XVII 


CHASE TITAS aE PTA TEATS # | 
fat TENT Was Tad HAT tt 2S UI 


Slokas 9-16 — The general effects arising from the Sun’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as 
follows :— 


Ist Kakshya: Sinful nature ; wickedness ; acute ill- 
ness ; emaciation ; ingratitude ; desire for another's wife ; 
indiscretion and rashness. 


2nd Kakshya: Stupidity ; vulgarity ; bad associates ; 
sickness ; lack of wealth and food ; headache and fever 
due to sunstroke, biliousness, etc., and illness due to 
diseases of the mouth (e.g., Pyorrhea). 


3rd Kakshya: Imprudence ; lack of progeny, wealth 
and grains ; domination by many enemies and slothfulness. 


4th Kakshya: Censure ; ungratefulness ; coveteous- 
ness for other’s wealth ; desertion by friends ; desire for 
another’s wife and defeat from all people. 


5th Kakshya: Afflictions through sickness ; rancour ; 
poverty and fear; misfortune ; tete-a-tete with others’ 
wives ; cowardice due to fear and hard-heartedness. 

6th Kakshya: Defeat from enemies ; inclination to 
do base acts ; deceitfulness ; uncleanness ; robbery ; trans- 
gression from one’s religion (moral code); lack of charac- 
ter and feebleness (over-anxiety). 

7th Kakshya: Poverty ; deformity ; shamelessness ; 
desire for other people’s food, apparels and wealth ; 
materialism ; mockery and hard-heartedness. 

8th Kakshya: Inclination to commit many evil deeds, 
desertion by friends ; desire for another’s wife ; wickedness 
and miserable condition. 


ARERATTSY | 
Jena Raeeaarest ea AGS at AgETL + | 
fra aot qelzaale cated aaraaaeay tt Vo U1 


sl. 16-24 ASHT AKAVARGA 27/1 


erat: Aled BAT lgigetaheada x | 
ataaiek afit snat saneatad aorntead a I et 
dead eq aad at etd Tee & | 

Prag aagagey sa Bat AAT THT I 23 II 
waa aa sata ard at ofag Prada 2 | 
AMRIT ATT GAMA I Re I 
Reniaatd ahaa at cad TEAPOTAT & | 
antag: ay trace: Genfafa adad aay i! 22 1 
WD Ted Gat atest HAA az: gaara & | 
TAHA TA faals TRISH THATAATSZ I 82 UI 
Hd Ux: GE aaa: TATA APs Galley 2% | 
aaaaerd As aalgentaht 2a 1 82 II 
qwarasey Aeakwagh Raniead aa AAT | 
Rola aA aed aed elas aramag 3 1 88 UI 


Slokas 17-24 — The general effects arising from the Moon’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows :— 

ist Kakshya: Good fortune ; king’s favourite ; devo- 
tion to preceptors and God ; visit to sacred places and fit to 
be worshipped (served) by all people. 

2nd Kakshya: Possession of elephants, horses and 
vehicles ; also precious stones such as lapis-lazuli, pearls, 
etc. ; variety of pleasures ; courage ; serenity and affection. 

3rd Kakshya : Has a guardian ; modesty ; participation 
in many religious ceremonies ; prosperity ; virtue and 
respect from kinsmen. 

4th Kakshya: Honour ; great renown ; possession of 
various kinds of wealth ; desire to construct tanks, wells 
and resting places; great man and happiness through 
children. 


272 ERR: CHAP. XVII 


5th Kakshya: Learning; modesty ; discriminative 
sense ; enjoyment of variety of pleasures; favourite of 
guests ; patience in bearing everything and wisdom. 

6th Kakshya: Pleasing appearance ; good fortune ; 
agreeability ; having wife, children and wealth ; delight 
in study of Shastras ; modesty ; honour from King and 
worthiness of respect. 

7th Kakshya: Lustre ; ministership ; good character ; 
observance of vows and fasts ; ritualism ; has a wife who 
is always agreeable and charming. 

8th Kakshya: Happiness and wealth; Learning ; 
truthfulness ; courage; an ascetic temperament and a 
favourite of guests and Brahmins. 


was faegra: TaH: ATE FEI ATTY * | 
TUE aaahige Bi Ha Teaselaag URUU 
walla ant fad Bata at Heed aaa ath | 
THATS TA tt Rafad aya Fer Rall 
AE yore ea TeeR: agayATITT + | 
Hera Wess a AneGMa FV AIPA U1 Vo II 
Find aahdtata eta di ae 2 
ART Taed Aaa aa SI AFT IIRC 
TANS Tatas Fanaa: ay tata x | 
mile aa aaa: aad ahd yattarratas (1 23 I 
Raadaied gard BSS ratsTy ee | 
aH Ted 3 sera (Rel! 
MAA Raa AF wt oases + | 
Thi AOE HST TT TTT ATA Haar 3 2 
agseashend Fara ars verfd AR & aq % | 
atergd araaftaard aor Qaerigay 1122 


Slokas 25-32 — The general effects arising from the Moon’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 


sl. 25-33 ASHTAKAVARGA 273 


when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as 
follows :— 

Ist Kakshya: Sickly constitution ; inclination to com- 
mit sins; separation from one’s own people; misery ; 
leanness and untruthfulness. 

2nd Kakshya: Ungratefulness ; acute emaciation and 
great misery ; creation of numerous enemies ; lustreless 
and abandonment by kinsmen. 

3rd Kakshya: Disfavours from the ruling power ; 
heavy expenditure ; serious illness; afflictions through 
phlegmatic and wind troubles (gout). 

4th Kakshya: Bad company ; uncruthfulness ; un- 
happiness ; affliction from many ailments; great ill-luck 
and indulgence in drinks. 

5th Kakshya: Loose character ; many enemies ; addic- 
tion to vices; lack of honour and presents from ruling 
power. 

6th Kakshya: Service in foreign places ; ungrateful- 
ness ; subdual by enemies ; without honour ; trouble from 
ruling power and lack of wife, vehicles, etc. 

7th Kakshya: Much enmity ; severe sickness ; tor- 
ment from ruling power or a robber; diseases in the 
stomach on a large scale ; loss of wealth and separation 
from the loved ones. 

8th Kakshya: Unfavourable results, such as sorrow, 

loss of money, etc., and various afflictions ; deviation from 
virtuous habits ; loss of property and wealth ; great fear, 
misery and grave misfortune. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the Moon (6*-13°-34’) 
occupies the 8th Kakshya in the Sth bhava and is associated. with 
a rekba, i.e., the lord of that Kakshya, the Lagna, has donated 
a rekbha to the Moon. (Ref. chart on page 64). The native will 
experience the bad results mentioned in verse No. 32. As the 
Moon is associated with & rekbas in that bhava the magnitude of 
this will be 5/8 of the whole possible. 


PUCHTMTS | 
Vara Baar HAA ala: caafeaa x | 
aet @ At Alt a Gai aersateat Tad Tania 12311 


a. F. Ye 


ec 


274 TORI: cuap. XVII 


avant frneratg qallaned Barat Tals 2 | 
Taal TaaaTTaa Hea AA feat BANA Be 
quetata Latraia got fara Atarax | 
fyargaiceant yard BA a freA 34 UI 
arergd Fea sat Ahawaatemegad Para + | 
feria arate aerated BT a aTTZ 1 34 I 
adder ag qaqa: Aoiraea asia aTaaTANy » | 
eeaeni agaraaiet saa ag Taft TU R91 
qasharat Fea wala: AAT Aya Frey se | 

Tartar ea sas aad ATOM Re HI 


aoitadt tata aqaea Aaraarratieary 2 | 
TATA THIGST HTT FETAL BS A 


WASEy wera T sat ara aariany x | 

Titsaant stnate Gasshagataa Garg i vo 
Slokas 33-40— The general effects arising from Mars’ 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bimduz) are as 
follows :— 

Ist Kakshya: Gain of land and wealth, increase of 
live-stock ; various kinds of comforts and enjoyments ; 
respect from virtuous people and happiness. 

2nd Kakshya : Good health, prosperity of friends and 
wife ; elevation of mind ; popularity in public ; eminence 
and destruction of enemies. 

3rd Kakshya: Possession of asses, camels and various 
kinds of vehicles ; fame ; eminence and gain of favours 
from the ruling powers. 

4th Kakshya: Valour, increase of good luck, happi- 
ness and prosperity, pleasure in receiving guests ; devotion 
to God and Brahmins ; recipient of honour from king and 
various gains, 


sl. 34-48 ASHTAKAVARGA 275 


5th Kakshya : Visit to holy places ; gain of gold, com- 
fort ; great respect and happiness ; cessation of afflictions 
and attainment of eminence. 
6th Kakshya: Destruction of enemies ; contact with 
relations ; apparels, bed-requisites and sumptuous food ; 
achievement of piety and wealth. 
7th Kakshya: Proficiency in Learning and Shastras, 
gains of all sorts ; bed-requisites, apparels and good food ; 
sexual happiness and other advantages. 
8th Kakshya: Prosperity and eminence ; everlasting 
glory ; gain through merchandise ; success in agriculture ; 
attainment of desired objects and great prosperity. 
fag haat yaa aan war zat ae aTAATATY 
c ~ Ls 
aaisterfe Tape a SAAT ATT I Ve 
Rafter[aat|asacarayt sarvt Aad aaa + | 
Rrarisart afaferared ata BAA ea ATT Be 
waaay Ararteted TA AUT sy TaTTATAA | 
SaTah: Hragaat wert AAT Fea | 83 UI 
Rarasaftr safaants amg Fea Troy + | 
ata saaeredt Hered Tat aTeTAT ae Neel 
aatenatmaatiaari garter gat Frater 2 | 
Halla Mar aS TIAA: TaTTaT fet AAT ALOT NB 
qaaeraatanel ai Fra fafa seen «| 
aa art ag wae aeaitel Goer FN BE UI 
Say apt aaedt AA FeTe ay MAAR: * | 
Prorfatararaa gd eat aunt Aranciery 11 vo UI 
GU ATAPI: Hara Waa 4 | 
Hacer: Fea ae TENT Wa: TI AT Ve UI 


Slokas 41-48—The general effects arising from Mars’ 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 


276 areal: CHAP. XVII 


when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as 
follows :— 

1st Kakshya: Financial loss ; diseases in the back ; 
loss of intellect and happiness in the company of wicked 
people. 

2nd Kakshya: Severe headache ; fever and sunstroke; 
loss of wealth by theft ; separation from beloved ; loss of 
intellect and friends. 

3rd Kakshya: Indulgence in sensual enjoyments ; 
censure ; association with wicked people ; bitter enmity 
and defeat. 

4th Kakshya: Disputes and enmities of various 
kinds ; addiction to gambling and prostitutes; defeat ; 
great fear and loss. 

5th Kakshya: Unhappiness, loss of friends and 
wealth ; loss of children and money; separation from 
family for a long period and loss of valour. 

6th Kakshya: Dangers from quadrupeds, wild beasts 
and snakes ; obstacles ; troubles from the ruling powers 
and association with wicked persons. 

7th Kakshya : Expenditure ; separation ; fear ; enmity 
with friends ; distress arising from diseases of tongue and 
eyes ; excessive indulgence in sensual enjoyments. 

8th Kakshya: Defeat ; diseases akin to death ; loss 
of wife ; deception by others; wounds from weapons or 
birth of an illegitimate child. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Mars (4*-7°-1’) occupies the 
6th Kakshya in the 3rd bhava and is associated with a rekba. 
ie., the lord of that Kakshya, Mercury, has donated a rekha to 
Mars (Ref. chart on page 64). The mative will experience 
the bad results mentioned in verse No. 46. As Mars is associated 
with 2 rekhas in that bhava the limit of this will be 1/4 of the 
whole possible. 


TUCVA | 
Varftaa: Aaa aaral waa sat alert TAA + | 
Renae: drach scratet Frere 1 8 1 


sl. 49-56 ASHTAKAVARGA 277 


waraead aerrd Raraats TE[ara ay ee | 
cart ata ahs fra at get art THAT UI Yo UI 
THT: Mage: Bilt TIA TASTY » | 
at Fafaet qart watet canted TET 4? UI 


grad Fed Ted frarlafy dysvaca aay x | 
Tend Tavs At aaeeneed asa 42 I 
Bilt Aa: By dareN ad Maid Taaitey « | 
aan heast Reatad afar Barr 43 
qusftart sata aa sot gered a wry | 
aaa saad aa: Tate fas aaa 4 I 
HoT Uae HATA: THA TET: 2 | 
dupr ateqaaiggeh seaatd aad aaleq 1 44 UI 
FAIA Seaageh AL Tad ARISTA: 2 | 
POAT AA Saye TATE BfeaTAATT 4S UI 


Slokas 49-56 — The general effects arising from Mercury's 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows :— 
' 1st Kakshya: Good character, Learning, discrimina- 

tion, etc. ; many friends and freedom from enemies. 

2nd Kakshya: Steadiness ; devotion to God and pre- 
ceptors ; disposition towards Sciences ; many vehicles and 
beverages ; handsome form ; good luck and lustre. 

3rd Kakshya: Pleasant speech; respect from king 
and the enemies ; ritualism ; good luck, agreeability ; con- 
Quest over enemies and performance of many religious rites. 

4th Kakshya: Graceful appearance; favourite of 
guests; respect from one’s relations; good intellect ; 
delight in the study of Scriptures ; ritualism ; constant 
observance of religious vows and fasts. 

5th Kakshya: Favourite of a king ; interest in the 


278 woHAT: CHAP. XVII 


construction of rest-houses, ramparts and pleasure gardens; 
wealth and great devotion to Brahmins. 

6th Kakshya : Destruction of enemies ; gains through 
people of towns and villages; great administratorship ; 
abundance of food and beverages ; fame; valour and 
victory. 

7th Kakshya: Acquisition of wife; conjugal hap- 
piness ; residence at sacred places ; full of happiness and 


prosperity ; pleasing appearance and a good character 
always. 


8th Kakshya : Possession of quadrupeds, apparels 
and wealth ; happiness through wife and children, honour 
everywhere and great dignity. 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Mercury (5*-5°-36’) occupies 
the 6th Kakshya in the 4th bbave and is associated with a bindu, 
ic., he, the lord of that Kakshya, has donated a bindu to himself 
(Ref. chart on page 64). The native will experience the good 
results mentioned in verse No. 54. As Mercury is associated with 
5 bindus in that bhara, the good effects will take place to the 
extent of 5/8 of the whole possible. 


fiegitaa: atradisitard Haft acl aaa as FI 
araead arate sat Fale aya aq 49 UI 
EP CRE ICLAG: URES Bloat HAA + | 
fadtadent fencagar at saa TEITATHT  4C UI 
ater: Garner BUNT Alea: Tad FAT + | 
ANA awaraes Td yaar aaa 1-48 UI 
FAUT: PIRATE: TAG FEI ATE + | 

aida dt fata dd aeartitaa Bahid a So UI 
aera aed gas Tet Tass a * | 

Gait SIRT HUT AEA: IG FAAS 1 Ul 
qOAa: MAK GA AC Tae VaAAT T * I 
WAI et Reads Rater TwHW 1 &2 


sl. 57-65 ASHTAKAVARGA 279 


aA at aN Fas aa Aa war] * | 
warned at Geet Fast Tet Gea 11 83 II 
FATA TMB Th NSH ATTA Sly | 
aleasenea: art Pet BA aed aad TakAT Uke UI 


Slokas 57-64-— The general effects arising from Mercury's 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any 
Bhava) when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are 
as follows :— 

Ist Kakshya: Inclination to be sinful, wicked and 
deceitful ; neglect from relations ; bad character and want 
of modesty. 

2nd Kakshya: Great affliction, desertion by virtuous 
people, humiliation ; cruelty, ungratefulness and many 
sinful deeds. 

3rd Kakshya: Loss of children and wife ; slovenli- 
ness ; lack of lustre ; dirty body and troubles from the king. 

4th Kakshya: Great afflictions; without character 
and modesty, and desertion by men of good character. 

5th Kakshya: Loss of progeny and wealth ; slovenli- 
ness ; sufferings from diseases; interference in other 
people’s affairs ; defeat from others ; abandonment by God 
(good luck) and preceptors. . 

6th Kakshya: Lack of wealth ; defeat from enemies, 
lack of Learning and want of modesty. 

7th Kakshya: Absence of enjoyments ; fondness for 
another’s wife ; reproach from people ; pitiable condition, 
perverted intelligence and apprehensiveness. 

8th Kakshya: Addiction to gambling and harlots ; 
irate temperament ; want of truthfulness and wealth ; fear ; 
lack of everything and full of malice. 


PrerTiTey | 


Tarra VTE ad at ant fara sx | 
me aaeraad 3 eat area 4 I 


ce 


280 AVR cHAP. XVII 


factan: dkeaga: vad at gts: at watery * | 
aeeagaae aaa atexgsd ofr TAH tt SE Ul 
adtadea: Het Tad |weaat aggaatay « | 
afer safeag gum Ferd aad Talay |! Go It 
Rraadasadh eet aed rears * | 
added salad FARA ataadad aN Fe Ul 
Rifas: ay daaeq at Hatt qadaiey *! 
qaiead staat anni aa als age 88 I 
aatitrd fad Tad Ae Asa: TE WaT: x | 

ae age snd qani saiaat afad ft aN 90 I 
pieardadaes BA Ae aad TT + | 
Pantad Zaqesah Gala Gat: TAA tl 92 UI 
aaiseaea: Hea Hard Hula ataong ca + | 
a Ts ARTAGas THATITAAeaT 7 U1 92 II 


Slokas 65-72 — The general effects arising from Jupiter’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bimdu) are as 
follows :— 

ist Kakshya : _ Culture and Learning ; modesty ; great 
intelligence and wealth ; a paragon of virtue and a favou- 
rite of Brahmins. 

2nd Kakshya: Happiness; good fortune, agree- 
ability ; possession of elephants, horses, vehicles, etc., 
intelligence ; honour from king and great renown. 

3rd Kakshya: Ministership; many children and 
grandchildren ; compassion ; interest in the welfare of all 
beings ; pre-eminence in the family and good character. 

4th Kakshya: Endowment of gold, wealth and good 
intellect ; cleverness ; discrimination and respect from 
kinsmen. 

5th Kakshya: King’s favourite; endowment of 
children ; affection towards people ; good character and 
interest in many religious rites. 


sl. 66-80 ASHTAKAVARGA 281 


6th Kakshya: Victory over enemies ; merriment ; 
well-nourished body ; full of respect to preceptors ; for- 
giving nature ; great renown and a favourite of all. 

7th Kakshya: Delight in conjugal happiness with 
loving wife ; possession of wealth ; devotion to God and 
preceptors ; knowledge of good and agreeable talk and 
association with virtuous people. 

8th Kakshya: Culture and Learning ; favourite of 
guests ; competancy in all Arts ; honour from king ; great 
avidity in learning many Shastras ; great valour and vigour. 


Prafad cays: ad at sata TETATHT » | 

oad Sat Aorernd Getaaed Tad 7 | 02 
acta ytqaended wa ates: eI AIM * | 
waaat Waseca: syaga ahated a i 98 
qnaaey fea ftalata: Tea ae: * | 
wah: Tena stalagMsaa: Ha | 94 UI 
qaan tage: saa Ada aqaaeay » | 
Aafia: ated a at aad HAs TE TI 9G UI 
THISRTT RAR AL TAT GUTTA: » | 

TA aad GMT Ne ernEaaiad J 11 9 

WH AsAN Faas: Misi ra waaay + | 
tants gael waPpaetaaaa tl 9¢ UI 
Hilla Sa: Vy AAA aC Harfergt ata * | 
Rasa qa fa safaarertea 1 68 
CHASE MS )TTE: TAA AarlaTs Hes AIPA +s | 
el TOT HSA Tey TATA gd ata I co I 


Slokas 73-80—The general effects arising from Jupiter's 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a malefic point (rekba) are as 
follows :— 


282 THT: cHap. XVII 


Ist Kakshya: Wickedness ; affliction by sorrow ; 
greediness ; ungratefulness ; baseness; lack of strength 
(beingness) and rashness. 

2nd Kakshya: Apprehension from king and robber; 
wickedness ; afflictions from disease ; ill-favoured posi- 
tion ; full of miserics and cause of the death of wife. 

3rd Kakshya: Poverty ; wounds; a bad friend ; 
desire for another’s wife ; ill-luck ; laziness and ungrate- 
fulness. 

4th Kakshya: Poverty ; many enemies; sufferings 
from itches, etc. ; deceitfulness and crookedness in money 
matters. 

5th Kakshya: Afflictions of fever and scabies ; desire 
for another’s wife; great sorrows; sinful disposition ; 
thieving habits and afflictions from great calamities. 

6th Kakshya: Eye diseases and other afflictions ; 
a barbarian in appearance ; tendency to cheat ; lack of wife 
and children ; non-performance of religious rites and end- 
less sorrows. 

7th Kakshya: Excess of phlegm, etc., hiccough, fever 
and other sufferings ; without honour ; pitiable condition ; 
reproach from people and very little happiness. 

8th Kakshya : Extreme arrogance ; crookedness ; dis- 

pleasure from kings ; loss of position (dignity) in one’s 
family and a disfigured appearance. 
Nofes: In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter (5*-15°-35’) occupies 
the 1st Kakshya in the 5th bbava and is associated with a rekba, 
ie., Saturn, the lord of that Kakshya, has donated a rekba to 
Jupicer. (Ref. chart on page 64). The native will experience 
the bad results mentioned im verse No. 73. As Jupiter is asso- 
ciated with 4 rekbas in that bhava the proportion of this will be 
1/2 of the whole possible. 


THERM TAT | 
THTAA See: Tad Ae Aa Tt galt * | 
Praia raat sats THAT Ha HI C2 UI 
fata: arenga: [ aaa at] sae th a IT x | 
erTaaite Rata ash waradd saw 711 c? UI 


sl. 81-88 ASHTAKAVARGA 283 


aaraden Test at Te aad TTA Ax | 
ahead vine Bets aiesTATAwaA FU <3 It 
THIATd Fed Tal TAMAS TATATHY * | 
Aaa: Aaelad aad AIIM cv UI 
AATATRTISM: Te AT SeaTETT % | 
qaaet ag anes: el Ta ge TTA IL C4 
THT W Fed aq aralag aeHeTAT % | 
aire: aft ged raat adaera TCE II 
ant eat ay agen at Raid arama x | 
VHP SIATATUTT ALTAR Aeq I co I 
WUNASY SNS: Ta at fait Gata THT se | 
maa agate Tafaot Tanta Ul ce II 
Slokas 81-88— The general effects arising from Venus’ 
Position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 


when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows :— 


Ist Kakshya: Agreeable nature ; good luck ; good 
character ; self-control ; charitable disposition ; pleasing 
behaviour ; devotion to religion (Dharma) and plenty of 
food and beverages. 

2nd Kakshya: Great wealth; virtue; devotion to 
own religion (Dharma); modesty ; lustre and a favourite of 
people. 

3rd Kakshya: Many ornaments ; boldness ; great in- 
tellect ; devotion to religion ; modesty and a favourite of 
God and Brahmins. 

4th Kakshya: Immense wealth ; endowment of good 
food, apparels and beverages ; possession of gems like 
lapis-lazuli, pearls, etc., and contentment. 

5th Kakshya: Visits to sacred places ; acquisition 
of vehicles and progeny ; ownership of quadrupeds ; king’s 
favourite and chief ministership. 


284 AHR: cHAP. XVII 


6th Kakshya: Adherence to Learning ; knowledge of 
many sacred Mantras; gains from or through females ; 
good appearance ; cleverness and proficiency in all Arts. 

7th Kakshya: Great skill in enjoying carnal plea- 
sures ; enjoyment of saffron and apparels and honour from 
king. 

8th Kakshya: Expert in diplomacy ; lustre; great 
renown ; good acts (deeds) and interest in performing 
religious rites. 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Venus (6*-15°-37’) occupies 
the 8th Kakshya in the 5th bhava and is associated with a bindu, 
ie, the Lagna, the lord of that Kakshya, has donated a bindu to 
Venus (Ref. chart on page 64). The native will experience the 
good results mentioned in verse No. 88. As Venus is associated with 
5 bindus in that bhava the effects will be realised to the extent 


of 5/8 of the whole possible. 
fread tae: waa at Gord agaTEHA & | 
qubrad aaa Ratsd Terqasses 11 6% 1 
aan fala aed ae saad sea & | 
az Reh ayeerat aria Wasted FI So I 
Tae: Fed TIA WR: ATENHafad J + | 
Te aad HAs sae ATTA aA Se UI 
aaa: aagd TAI AT aeead sy + | 
qatar 3 es BS TTA 82 UI 
Hala GE: Ay TaN Tar she fat aasay | 
gad aaa: aad sfiadtead Mataq 1 32 u 
a8 Ra: Always aT va ToT etary | 
Rated age Rel Reach wah TH Se 
mela GH VY TATE TANI aed RATA + | 
was sarang aa Saet aldaferd FU 8 It 
aaserer: Hed ale At aerenad Hay % | 
fret Rett aga FeaPad Seat aaa 1128 I 


sl. 89-99 ASHTAKAVARGA 285 


Slokas 89-96— The general effects arising from Venus’ 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as 
follows :— 

Ist Kakshya: Sinful nature: afflictions from many 
diseases ; oppression from the king ; lack of progeny and 
wealth ; abandonment by relations and virtuous people. 

2nd Kakshya: Wounds ; without lustre ; inclination 
to sinful actions ; estrangement from members of his own 
family ; extreme grief and a voluptuous character. 

3rd Kakshya : Wickedness ; quarrel with own child- 
ren; defeat; slovenliness; distress through fever and 
want of self-respect. 

4th Kakshya: Full of sorrows ; afflictions through 
incurable diseases ; poverty; lack of quadrupeds and 
apparels ; servitude ; wickedness and without honour from 
the king. 

5th Kakshya: Poverty ; disfigurement ; lack of pro- 
geny and wealth ; indulgence in bad habits and association 
with wicked people. 

6th Kakshya: Trouble from all people; lack of 
affection and real happiness; inclination to live in a 
foreign country and interference in other people’s affairs. 

7th Kakshya: Afflictions from diseases caused by 
wind (ata), etc. ; wickedness ; indulgence in bad habits ; 
ungratefulness and lack of determination (sense). 

8th Kakshya: Base character; afflictions from in- 
curable diseases ; ingratitude ; always in want ; indulgence 
in many sinful deeds ; worry and inimical children. 


TART | 
Ttariera: a: saa Rare Gat Agery | 
Benfad ada: werd Reftadaratt ata lh Qo 11 
etaden cas: sad at fraid agar «| 
RNAI Nala KATA FI Se Ut 
aera: Fed TA aL TRATUTTAATATHTT «| 
PMSA AL TAT TTAFTHTTT | 88 I 


286 Tea: cHap. XVII 


TAT: TIGA: WF At Tavet TEAAUAT + | 
BATTS AT TATA It 20 UI 
Rind 4a: UE aac at Fela Bled J ew + | 
Pred Asraritad sabia eteft aa tl 2k UI 
Wisha: Head waa at APs ern ee | 
TAMAS HARA HET ALATAAT Ul Lo? UI 
TAA AAT (TTA ae sete TATA & | 

frat siftat valet Teg Ta TA TAH 203 
TaTASET aaa: TAA Reet AOA + | 
Reqadasah Ant Bae I ov UI 


Slokas 97-104—-The general effects arising from Saturn’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows :— 

Ist Kakshya: A steady disposition, good fortunes ; 
association with a good wife; prominence among men ; 
modesty in dress and ornaments. 

2nd Kakshya: Worthiness for great honours ; en- 
dowment of valour, enthusiasm and wealth ; interest to 
go on pilgrimages and possession of excellent vehicles. 

3rd Kakshya: Ministership ; great avidity (to learn) 
for Scriptures and Shastras ; possession of asses, camels and 
iron (articles); many children; serenity and great influence. 

4th Kakshya: Many children, vehicles and variety 
of beverages ; enjoyment of garlands, perfumes and in- 
cense, corn, wealth and excellent horses in plenty. 

5th Kakshya: Aristocracy ; happiness ; prosperity ; 
absence of enemies ; service to the king and a favourite of 
Goddess of wealth (Lakshmi). 

6th Kakshya: Good character ; ritualism ; devotion 
to God and Brahmins ; fame late in life (or posthumous) ; 
gain of wealth and gold; great splendour and honour 
from the king. 


s]. 100-112 ASHTAKAVARGA 287 


7th Kakshya: Great wealth ; alluring to beautiful 
women ; cleverness ; great renown, agreeability ; profici- 
ency in Arts and fame. 

8th Kakshya: Strange type of garlands and orna- 
ments ; possession of gold, corn and wealth ; prosperity 
modesty due to Learning ; devotion to God and Brahmins. 


Regitaa: aaa: waa Ted qed ATA se | 
wmaadenaag:s Aa Tad aTtisd 7 1 20% | 
dlader: Feasts: woreak gs waeTT x | 
grea: seizait awed gaze 11 208 I 
adage: Tad at aad aa a x | 
weird aeatdaga Te ad TAAATPTAT 11 Lov 1 
AGM: TAG: 14a Gage Gest AIT » | 
aaa Tages det as amt I! Yee II 
ale: aa tara: sae Aeanatt afereaay x | 

ant gale candlaty aamraateed stay ll 208 1 
GB ies Tagd saa MTA IEA ee 
gained ane mydat Gaara 71 2o UI 
aa faa ae AMMEN at Praretanaeae | 

al at Mayet zarensi aieafad 7 222 HI 
aisoren get afee at att agate «| 
fried: Haga Azar wash 1 22? Ul 


Slokas 105-112 — The general effects arising from Saturn's 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a malefic point (rekba) are as 
follows :— 

Ist Kakshya: Unprofitable labour; sinful nature ; 
abandonment by own relations; misery; pitiable condition; 
wickedness and oppression from king. 

2nd Kakshya: Evilmindedness; delight in sinful 
deeds ; afflictions all over the body through abdominal 
diseases ; fickleness and miserly nature. 


288 aTeRaaT: cuap. XVII 


3rd Kakshya: Cruelty; dishonesty in dealings ; 
gluttony ; untruthfulness ; thieving habits ; wickedness and 
oppression from all people. 

4th Kakshya: Unhappiness ; wounds ; defective com- 
plexion ; loss of sense and stamina ; servitude ; wicked- 
ness ; poverty and misfortunes. 

5th Kakshya: A cause of disgust to citizens ; mean 
nature ; jealousy ; eccentricity ; loss of fruits of labour ; 
afflictions from sneezes (cold), wounds and weapons and 
cruelty. 

6th Kakshya: Sinful habits ; lack of dignity ; fond- 
ness for another’s wife ; afflictions from diseases in the 
anus and eyes ; sorrow, calamity and rashness. 

7th Kakshya: Inaction; bitter enmity ; constant 
sickness ; lack of sincere relations ; loss of children and 
want of sense. 

8th Kakshya: Poverty ; sickness, inclination to mean 
acts; afflictions as a result of biliousness and serious illness; 
residence in foreign countries and interference in other 
people’s affairs.* 
Notes: In the Standard Horoscope Saturn (9°-16°-11’) occupies 
the 8th Kakshya (the Lagna’s) in the 8th bhava and is associated 
with a rekba, i.e., the lord of that Kakshya, the Lagna, has donated 
a rekba to Saturn (Ref. chart on page 64). The native will 
experience bad results mentioned in verse No. 112. As Saturn is 
associated with 7 rekbas in that bhava the magnitude of this 
will be 7/8 of the whole possible. 


* Wrong readings are corrected in round brackets ( ) ; suggested 
correct readings are given in square brackets [ ]. 


APPENDICES 


I. The Ashtakavarga Plate. 


The preparation of the Bhinnashtakavarga of the 
planets by means of the mnemonic verses given in Chap. II 
involves a great deal of labour and time especially when 
the number of horoscopes to be considered is large. To 
minimise this labour and save time, some kind of a simpli- 
fied and easy-to-operate device becomes a_ necessity. 
The Ashtakavarga Plate serves this purpose and one can 
prepare the Bhinnashtakavargas of all the planets and also 
find out the Samudayashtakavarga figures in all the bhbavas 
by one setting, at a short time. 


This handy device is fabricated by preparing nine 
circular plates (of copper, brass, card-board, etc.). The 
smallest one is with a radius of 1 inch and the subsequent 
ones with 1} in., 14 in., and so on, so that the largest 
plate is of 3 in. radius. An axle with a screw arrangement 
is fitted through the centre of the largest plate and the 
other plates with perforated centres are passed through 
this axle, so that they can be turned about it. When all 
the plates are thus placed with the largest at the bottom 
and the smallest at the top, a narrow circular strip near 
tim of the 8 plates and the entire smallest plate are 
exposed. Divide each strip into 12 uniform sectors by 
thin lines so that when the plates are adjusted for a horo- 
scope, they form a straight line. 

Write down the names of the 12 rasis of the Zodiac 
in their order, in the 12 sectors of the topmost plate. 
Place a dot or other identification mark in one of the 
sectors of the remaining plates to denote the position. ‘of 
the planets related to those plates. In the Lagna plate write 
the bhava order in Roman numerals. In the exposed portion 
of the next bigger plate put down the figures — 1 for the 
Sun, 2 for the Moon, 3 for Mars, etc.,— denoting the 
receivers of benefic points counted from the Sun. For 
example, the Sun, Jupiter and Saturn, each receives, a 


tT. 18 


(2) 


benefic point (marked by a bindu in the chart) in the Ist 
house from the Sun, which is indicated by the figures 1, 5 
and 7 in the plate. The 2nd house from the Sun contains 
1, 5 and 7 representing the Sun, Jupiter and Saturn as the 
receivers from the Sun, and se on for the 12 houses from 
the Sun. In the next circular strip put down the figures 
denoting the receivers of benefic points from the Moon ; 
in the next from Mars and so on in the order the Sun, 
the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and the 
last plate, the Lagna (Ref. Parasarahora Uttarakhanda 
Adhyaya I). 


To set the plate for any horoscope, keep the bottom 
plate, ie, the Lagna fixed and rotate the next plate 
(relating to Saturn), till the dotted sector representing 
Saturn is as many houses away from the dotted sector 
representing the Lagna as Saturn is away from the Lagna 
in the horoscope by bhava position. Keeping these two 
plates pressed by the finger, rotate the next plate (relating 
to Venus) till the dotted sector comes to the same bhava 
position from the dot in Lagna plate as Venus is in the 
horoscope. Next rotate the plate of Jupiter, keeping these 
three fixed, and so on with the plates relating to Mercury, 
Mars, the Moon and the Sun. Finally rotate the topmost 
plate cill the sector containing the name of the rasi repre- 
senting the Lagna comes directly over the sector contain- 
ing the Lagna dot. Fix up the plates by tightening the 
screw at the top. It will be observed that the Lagna and 
the planets come directly under the rasis which they 
occupy in the Bhava or Chalita Horoscope. The Ashtaka- 
varga figures are then noted down in the following man- 
ner. The number of ‘i’s in the sector under Mesha sign 
represents the benefic points received by the Sun in his 
Ashtakavarga in the bhava indicated by the Lagna plate. 
The number of ‘1’s in the sectors under Vrishabha sign 
represents the Sun’s benefic points in his Ashtakavarga in 
that bhava indicated and so on. Similarly, the number of 
*2’s in the sectors under each rasi represents the benefic 
points received by the Moon in her Ashtakavarga, in the 
respective bhavas. The number of ‘3’s gives the figures 


(3) 


for Mars; the ‘4’s for Mercury ; the ‘5’s for Jupiter ; 
the ‘6’s for Venus and the ‘7’s for Saturn in their res- 
pective Ashtakavargas. The sum of all these figures (not 
numerical sum) under the Mesha rasi gives the Samudaya- 
shtakavarga figure in the Mesha bhava; that under 
Mrishabha rasi gives the Samudaya figure for that bhava 
and so on. 


The following chart shows how the different plates 
have been adjusted for the Standard Horoscope. All one 
has to do now is to collect the similar figures in the several 
plates and their sum, in all the bhbavas taking them one after 


another. For example it is found that in Mithuna (i.e., 
Ist bhava) there are 4 of ‘1’s; 5 of ‘2’s; 3 of ‘3’s; 4 
of ‘4’s ; 7 of ‘5’s; 5 of ‘6’s and 5 of ‘7’s and 33 bindus in 
all when summed up. This means that the Sun has 
received 4 bindus, the Moon 5 bindus, Mars 3 bindus, 


(4) 


Mercury 4 bindus, Jupiter 7 bindus, Venus 5 bindus and 
Saturn 5 bindus in their respective Bhinnashtakavargas in 
the 1st bhava and their sum 33 bindus is the Samudaya- 
shtakavarga figure in the Ist bhava. Similarly, the 
collecting of the Bhinnashtakavarga figures of the planets 
and the Samudayashtakavarga figures are carried out for 
the remaining bhavas. 


Parasara and Varahamihira differ at two places (Ref. 
notes on pages 18 and 20). The figures in square brackets 
are according to Parasara and the figures in round brackets 
are according to Varahamihira. This book follows the 
Parasara system. Readers may choose whichever method 
they prefer. 


This device set for a horoscope can be used with great 
facility for plotting the benefic points (by bimdus) in their 
proper Kakshyas in the Sarvachanchachakra (Ref. page 
64). The plate (consisting of 12 sectors) relating to the 
Sun represents his Kakshyas (in the 12 bhavas) and the 
figures represent the planets (in their numeral order, ice.,. 
1 for the Sun, 2 for the Moon, etc.) receiving bindus from 
the Sun in their respective Ashtakavargas. For example 
the Ist house from the Sun contains the figures 1, 5 and 7. 
Plot a bindu in the Kakshya of the Sun in the bhava 
occupied by him in the Sarvachanchachakra in the 2nd 
strip (just below the strip showing the names of the 
Kakshya lords) which represents the Sun’s Ashtakavarga ; 
plot the 2nd bindu in his own Kakshya in the 6th strip 
from the outermost one, which represents Jupiter’s Ashtaka- 
varga in the same bhava occupied by the Sun and lastly 
plot the 3rd bindu in his Kakshya in the 8th strip from the 
outermost one, which represents Saturn’s Ashtakavarga, in 
that bhava. In this manner bindus are plotted in the other 
bhavas in the Sun’s Kakshyas. They are all in the Sun’s 
Kakshyas in the respective planets’ Ashtakavargas indicated 
by the figures in the remaining eleven sectors in the Sun’s 
plate. Similarly, bindus are placed in their respective 
Kakshyas in the Ashtakavarga of the planets indicated by 
the figures in the plates relating to the Moon, Mars, etc. 


(5) 


Il. Precession ( Ayanamsa ) on Ist January of each year 
based on Chitra ( & Virginis, Spica 16) as 180°. 


Fi 
1 


Year Ayanamsa Year Ayanamsa 


56 19099 1965 22 34 15 


1874 1930 22 4 

1875 1931 22 5 46 1910 19%6 22 35 5 
1876 1932 22 6 37 1911 1967 22 #35 ~=«266 
1877 1933 22 7 27 1912 1968 22 36 46 
1878 1934 22 8 17 1913 1969 22 37-336 
1879 1935 22 9 7 1914 1970 22 38 #£26 
1880 1936 22 9 58 1915 1971 22 8639 17 
1881 1937 22 10 «48 1916 1972 22 40 7 
1882 1938 22 11 38 1917 1973. 22 40 57 
1883 1939 22 12 28 1918 1974 22 Al 47 
1884 «1940 221319 1919 1975 22 42 38 
1885 1941 22 14 9 1920 1976 22 43 28 
1886 1942 22 14 59 1921 1977 22 44 18 
1887 1943 22 15 50 1922 1978 22 45 9 
1888 1944 22 16 440 1923 1979 22 45 59 
1889 1945 22 17-30 1924 1980 22 46 49 
1890 1946 22 18 20 1925 1981 22 47 39 
1891 1947 22 19 il 1926 1982 22 48 30 
1892 1948 22 = =20 1 1927 1983 22 49 20 
1893 1949 22 20 51 1928 3984 22 50 10 
1894 1950 22 21 41 1929 1985 22 51 0 
1895 1951 22 22232 1930 1986 22 51 51 
1896 1952 22 23 22 1931 1987 22 52 41 
1897 1953 22 24 12 1932 1988 22 53 31 


1898 1954 «9220025 2 1933 1989 22 54 21 
1899 1955 242 25 8653 1934 1999 22 55 12 
1900 1956 22 2 43 1935 1991 22 56 2 
1901 1957 22 27 33 1936 1992 22 56 52 
1902 1958 22 28 2 1937 1993 22 57 42 
1903 1959 22 29 14 1938 1994 22 58 33 
4 
5 


1904 1960 22 30 1939 1995 22 59 23 


1905 19%1 22 30 4 1910 1996 23 0 13 
1906 1962 22 31 44 1941 1997 23 1 4 
1907 1968 22 32 35 1912 1998 23 1 54 
1908 1964 22 33 25 1943 1999 23 2 4 


(6) 


Year Ayanamsa | Year | Ayanamsa 
es D Vittramay Deg alin as ec. | A.D. Vikrama| Deg. Min. ‘Seo. 
1944 2000 23 3 34 | 1956 2012 23 13 38 
1945 2001 23 4 25 | 1957 2013 23 14 28 
1946 2002 23 5 15 1958 2014 23 15 18 
1947 2003 23 6 5 1959 2015 23 16 8 
1948 2004 23 6 55 1960 2016 23 16 59 
1949 2005 23 7 46 1961 2017 23 17 49 
1950 2006 23 8 36 1962 2018 23 18 39 
1951 2007 23 9 26 963 2019 23 19 30 
1952 2008 23 10 16 | 1964 2020 23 20 20 
1953 2009 23 ll 7 1965 2021 23 2l 10 
1954 2010 23 11 57 1966 2022 23 22 0 
1955 2011 23 12 47 1967 2023 23 22 51 


The average change per year 50”.2622, iie., 
week. Subtract the amount of precession for the year in question 
from the longitudes of the planets, and the cusps of the Lagna, 
10th house, etc., of the Sayana horoscope to convert them to the 
Nirayana form. Add this to the Nirayana Horoscope figures to 
get the Sayana Horoscope.* 


about 1” per 


III. Names of the Rasis of the Zodiac and the Planets and 
their symbols (Indian and Western). 


1. Mesha 


2. Vrishabha 


3. Mithuna 
4, Kataka 
5. Simha 
6. Kanya 


7. Tula 


8. Viischika 
9. Dhanus 
10. Makara 
11. Kumbha 
12. Meena 


Rasis 
Aries i 
Taurus tel 
Gemini mt 
Cancer I) 
Leo R 
Virgo 1? 
Libra = 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn © 
Aquarius = 
Pisces K 


Planets 

1. eke i (q) The Sun © 
2, Chandra(4) The Moon 2 
ba ae i (a) Mars a 
4. Budha(q) = Mercury 8 
5. Guru ) Jupiter 2 
6. Sukra(3) Venus g 
7. Sani (31) Saturn b 
8. Rahu (a) { Caput R 

Dragon’s head 

Cauda e] 


9. Ketu (*) { 


Dragon’s tail 


* Copied from the Janmabhumi Panchang with their kind 
permission. 


(7) 


IV A. About the Rasis and Planets 


: Odd or Male or ord. house _ Orig. Exait. Debil. 
Rasis even female Nature Swa. Moola Uccha Neecha 
Mesha odd male Chara Mars Mars Sun 10° Sat. 

12-30 0-12 20° 
Vrish. even fem. Stthira) Venus Moon Moon 3° — 
3-30 
Mithuna odd male Ubhaya = Merc. _ _ _ 
Kataka even fem. Chara Moon — Jup. 5° i 
2 > 
Simha odd male Stthira Sun. Sun. _ a 
20-30 0-20 
Kanya = even fem. Ubhaya Mere. Merc. Merc. Venus 
20-30 15-20 15° 27° 
Tula odd rrale Chara Venus Venus Sat. 20° Sun 
15-30 0-15 10°. 
Vrisch. even fem. Stthira Mars _ _ aes 
Dhanus_ odd male Ubhaya = Jup. Jup. = = 
10-30 0-10 
Makara even fem. Chara Sat. _— Mars. 28° i up. 
Kumbha_ odd male Stthira Sat. Sat. _ = 
° 20-30 0-20 
Meena even’ fem. Ubhaya = Jup. _ Venus 27° = Mere 
15° 


Chara = moveable, Stthira = fixed. Ubhaya == Common. 


Vrishabha (Uccha), Vrischika (Neecha), Mithuna and 
Kataka (Moolatrikona) and Kanya (Swakshetra). 
Vrischika (Uccha), Vrishabha (Neecha), Dhanus and 
Makara (Moolatrikona) and Meena (Swakshetra). 


Rahu : 


Ketu : 


B. Showing Mitra (Friend), Satru (Enemy), and Sama (Neutral) of 


Planets, 


ae PE ESI a SVE SSS 


Planets 


Sun 
Moon 


Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Mitra ( Friend ) 


Sun, Mercury 


Sun, Moon, Jupiter 
Sun, Venus 

Sun, Moon, Mars 
Mercury, Saturn 
Mercury, Venus 


! Moon, Mars, Jupiter 


Satru ( Enemy ) 


Saturn, Venus 
None 


Mercury 
Moon 
Mercury, Venus 
Sun, Moon 
Sun, Moon, Mars 


Sama ( Neutral) 


Mercury 
Mars, Jupiter, Venus 
Saturn 
Saturn, Venus, 
Mars, Jupiter, Saturn 
Saturn 
Mars, Jupiter 
Jupiter 


(8) 


When the planets occupy the 2nd and the 12th, the 3rd and 
the 11th, or the 4th and 10th houses from one another, they are 
temporary friends to each other. In other positions, they are 
temporary enemies. By combining the natural and the temporary 
friendships, etc., they become intimate friends (nat. friend + temp. 
friend), ordinary friends, neutrals, ordinary enemies and_ bitter 
enemies. 


V. Saptavarga divisions of the Rasis 


A. Lords of Horas B. Lords of Drekanas 

Rasis Ist 2nd Ist 2nd 3rd 
0°-15° 15°-30° 0°-10° 10°-20° 20°-30° 

Mesha Sun Moon 1, Mars 5. Sun 9. Jup. 
Vrish. Moon Sun 2.Venus  6.Merc. 10. Sat. 
Mithuna Sun Moon ] 3.Merc. 7. Venus 11. Sat. 
Kataka Moon Sun 4, Moon 8. Mars 12. Jup. 
Simha Sun Moon 5. Sun. g. Jup. 1. Mars 
Kanya Moon Sun 6. Merc. 10. Sat. 2. Venus 
Tula Sun Moon 7. Venus 11. Sat. 3. Merc. 
Vrisch. Moon Sun 8. Mars 12. Jup. 4. Moon 
Dhanus Sun Moon 9. Jup. 1. Mars + 5.Sun 
Makara Moon Sun 10. Sat. 2. Venus’ 6. Merc. 
Kumbha Sun Meon 11. Sat. 3. Mere, 7. Venus 
Meena Moon Sun 12. Jup. 4. Moon _ 8, Mars 


C. Lords of the Saptamsas (rasi numbers ) 


1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 


Rasis 4 8° 12° 17° 21° 25° 30° 
17/ 34/ 51’ 3’ 25/ 42! 0! 
— g’ 17” 26” 34” 43! 51" Q” 
Mesha 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Vrish. 8 9 10 ll ° 12 1 2 
Mithuna 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Kataka 10° 1l 12 1 2 3 4 
Simha 5 6 7 8 9 10 il 
Kanya 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Tula 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 
Vrisch. 2 3 4 5 6 7 & 
Dhanus 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
Makara 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Kumbha il 12 1 2 3 4 5 
Meena 6 7 8 9 10 ll 12 


(9) 


D. Lords of the Navamsas (rasi numbers ) 
Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 
Rasts 3 e 10° 13° 16° 2u° 23° 26° 30° 
20’ 40’ Q/ 20 40’ Of 20’ 40’ v' 


Mesha 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Vrish. 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Mithuna 7 8 9 10 il 12 1 2 3 
Kataka 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Simha 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Kanya 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Tula 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
Vrisch. 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ll 12 
Dhanus 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Makara 10 il 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Kumbha 7 8 9 10 ii 12 1 2 3 
Meena 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ll 12 


E. Lords of the Dwadasamsas ( rasi numbers ) 
lst 2nd 3rd 4th Sth 6th 7th 8th 9Q9to 10th llth 12th 
Rasis 2° 5 7 10° 12° 15° 17° 20° 22° 25° 27° 30° 
30° Of 330" ov 30° Of 30° 0’ 30° OW 30 0 


Mesha 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Vrish. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 
Mithuna 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 
Kataka 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 il 12 1 2 3 
Simha 5 6 7 8 9 10 lt 12 1 2 3 4 
Kanya 6 7 8 9 10 11 LW 1 2 3 4 5 
Tula 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Vrisch. 8 9 1 ll 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Dhanus 9 lo ll 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Makara 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Kumbha 11 = 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 «610 
Meena 12 1 2 3 4 65 6 7 8 9 10 lL 


F. Lords of the Trimsamsas 
Odd rasis 0° -5° 5°— 10° 10°-18° 18°—25° 25°~30° 


Lords Mars Saturn Jupiter Mercury Venus 
Even rasis 05° 5°-- 12° 12°-20° 20°-25° 25~30° 
Lords Venus Mercury Jupiter Saturn Mars 


Example. In the Standard Horoscope Mercury 5:-5°-36’, has 
completed 5 rasis and is im the 6th, i.e. Kanya. From the tables, 
reading against the row of Kanya and under the columns within 
the limits of which this position (5°-36’) falls, it is seen that 
the Hora shows Moon, Drekana Mercury, Saptamsa 1, Navamsa 
11, Dwadasamsa 8 and Trimsamsa Mercury i.c., the lords of the 
Rast, Hora, Drekana, etc., are Mercury, the Moon, Mercury, Mars, 
Saturn, Mars and Mercury. 


(10) 


VI A. The 27 Nakshatras ( constellation ), the rulers of the 
Dasas with their periods in the Vimshottari system. 


No. Nak. No. Nak. No. Nak. Dasa Lord. Period. 
1 Aswini 10 Magha 19 Moola Ketu 7 yrs 
2 Bharani 11 PF. Phalguni 20 P.Ashadha Sukra 20 ,, 
3 Krittika 12 U.Phalguni 21 U.Ashadha_ Ravi 6 » 
4 Rohini 13. Hasta 22 Sravana Chandra 10 ,, 
5 Mrigasiras14 Chitra 23 Dhanishta Mangal ae 
6  Ardra 15 Swati 24 Satatara Rahu 18 ,, 
7  Punarvasu 16 Vishakha 25 P.Bhadrapad Guru 16 ,, 
8 Pushya 17 ~=Anuradha 26 U.Bhadrapad Sani 19 ,, 
9 <Aslesha 18  Jyeshta 27 Revati Budha 17 ,, 


In the Standard Horoscope the Moon is in the Nakshatra 
Swati on that day and the ending period of Swati is at 17 Ghs. 
40 pal. on the next day. The time still remaining to elapse at birth 
is 32 Ghs. 46 pal. and the duration of the Moon in Swati is 67 Ghs. 
54 pal. The ruling Dasa lord is Rahu and his period for the 
whole of Ardra, Swati or Satatara is 18 years. Therefore the 
balance of Rahu Dasa at the time of birth is 
32 Ghs 46 pal = 
re Ghs 84° pal x 18 yrs. = 8 yrs. 8 mths. 7 dys. 

This can be calculated from the longitudinal position of the 
Moon also. The Moon’s position is 6*-13°-34’ and Swati extends 
from 6*-6°-40’ to 6*-20°-0". The distance’ yet to be covered by the 
Moon is 6'-20°-0’ minus 6*-13°-34’ = 6°-26'. 


Balance of Rahu Dasa = ee ae x 18 years, ie. 8 yrs. 8 mths. 
7 dys. There may be a slight difference between the two methods. 


This happens because the Moon’s movement is not uniform 
throughout the entire transit over Swati. The other Dasas follow 
in the order given in the tables. The sub-period (Antara) in 
Rahu Dasa is that of Mercury. At present these Dasa periods 
are reckoned in Solar years. 


B. THE ANTARDASA PERIODS OF THE VARIOUS NAKSHATRA DASAS 


ANTARDASAS | ANTARDASAS ANTARDASAS 


Kt 
Lal 

G. 
2: 
pot 

an 


(11) 


Yrs. Ds. 5. . | Ds. ; Yrs. Ms. 
Sun wl 0 3 18 Moon wei 0 10 0 Mars | 0 4 
ly an i 
Moon i OO: 6 0 & Mars Bee OO ee 0 gv Rahu «~{ 1! oO 
g Mars -~! Of 4 6 g Rahu Pees | | 6 0 § Jupiter 0 au 
> Rahu ~~} 0 !: 10 24 o Jupiter 1. 4 0 Ay Saturn a re | 
© Jupiter bud | 0 | 9 | 18 = = Saturn 1 | ? 0 Mercury } 0: 1 
§ pk rt) 11 | 12 8 phereuny. 1: 5 0 i etu ran | eee | 
77) ercury - 0 10 6 6 etu Oo | 7 0 s! Venus wl Jot 9 
Ketu oa 0 | 4 | 6 = Venus 1 | 8 0 Sun a) 4 
Venus i 1 | 0 | 0 Sun 0 | 6 0 Moon ol 7 
Rahu eee +B Te Jupiter 2} 1/18 | | Saturn wf SO) 8 
a» Jupiter w! 2 9, 4 °° Q4 € Saturn 2° 6:12 ® Mercury ... 2 , 8 9 
& Saturn 2:10 ; 6 By Mercury “2 5 3 6 ve Ketu ee ok Poot 9 
2 Mercury 2. 6 } 18 w Ketu - 0 G11 6 = Venus wt 8 | 2; 0 
o Ketu we Loy 0 18 = Venus 2 , 8 0 — Sun wf QO | 11 j 12 
Venus wt 38 0 .. 0 % (Sun / O |; 9 18 & Moon 1: 7 0 
2 Sun | O : 10 , 24 = Moon we Lo | 4 0 3 Mars 2 i641 9 
Moon | 1 6: 0 | & Mars oof cdlalhlU6U WT Rabu 211 ; 6 
Mars 1: 0 18 Rahu 1 2 4] 4 24 upiter 2 | 1 
o Mercury 214 | 27 Ketu 0 4 | 27 Yenus 3 i 4 | 0 
Ketu 0 ll; 27 .  Wenus a | 2 0 re un 5 1 0 !: O 
g Venus 2 |i | o 2 Sun w! O . 4 | 6 | § Moon 1's] 0 
Sun “io | 10 | 6 | & Moon mi 0° 67 «| 0 dT Mars 1 21 0 
>, Moon vel, lt fy Bh 0 ~ Mars al QO :' 4 : 27 8 Rahu es 0: 0 
Mars 0 | 11) 27 | 3 Rahu ~{ 1: 0 318 J 2 Jupiter 2 8 | 0 
2 Rahu 2, 6 | 18 ® Jupiter sie | 0 ll, 6 & Saturn ; 3, 2 4) 
2 Jupiter 2; 3 : 6 “Saturn a 1 9 > Mercury 2 10 | 0 
= Saturn 2 | 8 | 9 Mercury 0 4. | 27 Ketu 1, 2] 0 


EAC ESC 


The Roman and Arabic numerals against each Sloka refer 
respectively to the chapter to which it belongs and its number therein. 
Reference Slokas are marked with the letter R. 


Baz} 

aranterarat fafit VI-5 
wenhargyd We X-5 
arasasat Fafa XVI-148 R 
afasstad werd, XIV-67 R 
BMIEGGHAVA- II-3R 
arene FE XIV-11R 
ANSE I-14R 
aM Raat I-14 
ay Ga are— XIV-36 R 
AT A WHS XIV-67 R 
ary ear saeaita Il-18 
TINY TAASE— XV-1 
aaa ated Fra, XIV-19 R 
Bed GE UTA, Ill-6 
Ba: WH AAAS XVI-65 R 
AAPA XVI-61 
ara: Tae wala Vu-19 
AePeMTATCU XV-18 
afiqeatarrea- X-14 
aA AACA XIII-22 R 
TATAMTAISZ XVII-71 
BPA: CATT XIlI-11 R 
areaea Ta VI-17 
HG GAT Tel VI-10 
HteTINA: Be: V-6 
aera: a fratat X-22 
erage rata X-16R 
SALIBA XII-18R 
swat XIII-14 
BOY BHM: TAL XVI-139 
wa AHS XVI-95 
wea AST RF aT IX-14 


MATA Ta: 
asa ated ema: 
sien 


TITY TRA 
aan F Tart 
apatin 3 Jat 
AIT AAA 
aarHaAeN FeA- 
RASA Fat AAT 
TANAATT ATTA 


aaa THe RE 
TRATANT SARA 
SNA at 
ay streets 
BET Wh TATATA 


sTeey UAT Ue 


= (6) 


afa fanteatas Agarq- 


Bah Baa 
saraze fe dae 
HACLTANASAATGS 


XIU-12 
XVI-147 
XITI-22 R 
I-2R 
XUI-21 
XHI-22 R 
XV-24 


XIV-67 R 
IX-11 
XVII-45 


XVI-64 
XVI-59 
IV-12 
XIII-18 
V-2R 
VI-14R 
XIV-67 R 


XVI-196 R 


XIV-11 R 
XVI-10 R 
IV-~42 
VI-13 
IV-16 
XVII-34 
V-1 

If-2 


I-16 
H-16R 
XIV-7 R 
XI-6 


waigae aa 
Wala res AFeTT 
UHHSE Bat F 
waar 


ud & aentadt aay 
@ (1) 

tat Ausra 
a (56) 


ES 


era 


(13) 


VII-1 
X-42 


V-10 
XV-10 
XIV-67 R 
Il-7 


XIV-67 R 
XIV-67 R 


XIV-8 
XIV- 62 
XV--50 
XV-49 R 
XV-39 
XIV-58 
HL-3 
XVI-176 
XV-28 R 
IV-35 R 
XIV-67R 
X~27 
X-28 
X-46 
VI-4R 
IvV-11 
XIV—43 
IlI-4 
IV-8 
XV-46 
XV-4 
XV-6 
VI--16 
XII--23 
IV-20 


IV-41R 


II-14R 


we Femi Ty Fa II-8R 
Sa Sagpae Tait VII-17 
BATOTTAG T Tat XIV-67 R 
RTT RTT XIV-60 
aati zt fad ara XVII-26 
eam da: ag wae:  —- XVII-23 
aad ta: ay daaent  XVII-69 
aaa sta: ae aaa =—- XVII-79 
alle AAAS a IV-28 
anal Wg: FE qaaeaqt =XVII--13 
aA AT As TAA XVII-5 


aid at: ae Tare = XVII-.101 
aa Te: ag Tet  XVII-93 
aad De: Ag aAAeM = XVI--95 
Fa AeA: AG Tae =—XVII-53 


BEATA 1-2 
a: AAAI — V-3 
alate eae XVI-4 
wala: Fa eT XVI-56 
POTTSEUACT A - XVL 65R 
HOTTA TAT XVI-187 
FAA Ta AAeT XVII-55 
are: Wea A XVI-161 
aeTTTaAS A 7 
ahem Teme  - XIV-67 R 
Fal WHAM A L3 
FLALES AA 1-3R 
ee CNSR ATAL IV-33 
aaa aaa vA IV-6 
FMA VIIA XV-17 
FeraNS: TAT XVI-86 
PARATTAS XIV--57 
eeahag: Gat XVI-24 
FIV STHe I-13 
amd wat XVII-28 
Bassa aa TRaAl— IV-39 
pasa Taat pee- —=sdV-34R 
Sz AM ANS THT VIL-9 
Sarat qaes F IX-18 
Satara Rast VI-8 
eT TM XIV-36 


RARAT Tarawat X—3Z 
PATS AR XV-34R 
aT aT XV-34 
Paley aaa XIV-36 R 
FET TETAS XII-11 
Hay wate XVI-36 R 
faust § XIV-19R 
HOT STATA Shera XVI-137 
BaUSselepat IV-34R 
Rafer: ufga- XVI-196R 
eto ae WAR, IH-5 
ara Saree XV-53 
sagt Fehrs XV-52 
stunt aad aaaen  XVII-39 
a (5) 
MSIF ITE CTA XIV-33R 
waeay fates XIV-33 R 
MSIy WR XIV-33 R 
marae TATA XVIH-35 
aaa case Il-8 R 
7(15 ) 
TRAE X-16R 
WRITE X-16R 
Tea J ata X-19 
meray aaah X-23 
Terra Sele XVI-193 
Te A agneiem X-6 
TRAUMA AT 11-1 
Tat Fast ares XIII-22 R 
WAMAMTTS II-9 
ang ae Big ae XIV-20 
miltal cama LOR 
Heated Hezey XV-36 
Darn FJ XV-30 
aarae Hart az XV-35 
TON FA IW: CT, XV-14 
4 (24) 
qa faeeq aecn— IL-iR 
CAD cae EIR XIV-63 
agar: Wangs XVII-60 


TAT ANT: 


TRGareavs TI 


TaIaAHS: (vs sa 
sarPAR TA Tree 
TTAVAGAS 
TRAGACTA 
Saal THM 
TaITTSASTAM 
agssasiaane fre 
Faaatia gant rae 


3 (18) 


XVII-92 
XVII-4 
XVII-100 
XVII-108 
XVI-18 
XVU-76 
XVII—46 
XVII-56 
XIV-27 
XVII-19 
VII-11 
ViI-22 R 
VII-22 R 
XVI-60 
XVI-144 
V-12R 
VIL-14 
VIJ-20 
VII-17 R 
XVII-32 
XVI-10R 


IV-14 
. XVE-22 
XVI-101 
XVI-154 
XVI-55 
XVI-166 
XVI-83 
XVI-160 
XVI-87 
XVI-16 
XVI-68 
XVI-135 
XVI-126 
XVI-98 
XVI-25 
XVI-182 
XVI-143 
XVI-28 


(15) 


aw (35) 
TAPS TE TT I3R 
WHS Tel aq Ta XV-43 
WHA art XVIIOR 
TATA ARE: XVI-11 
HAAG ATA XIH-13 
SEA ICKMLAGG XVI-1 
weMPAaP aR XVI-123 
warat &B TA gF XVI-127 
saAaqaafaai XVI-65 R 
aU: Sag TA XVI-30 
mena IITA IX-10 
arene 4 FSI XII-16 
maT ATA TAT XI-17 
a CRERT TA I-20 
MET THT TAT X-17 
ae Faaraea- II-9 
SHANCIAAAT ATA X-4 
ICID RICANS XVI-72 
sara Tat XVI-183 
Stareraerray Fe XVI-99 
Sarasa A- XVI-44 
HATAETTT Bs XVI-155 
siarerTeTat a XVI-17 
Hares aaa X-41 
stares iegiaeg- X-8 
starr izatargey X-7 
starsat fafee fesinaa X-18 
ofa sata Zafaigq- XVI-120R 
saissaea: get ard = XVII-72 
TE AUTAAMATA IX-1 
ARAATR Ak XVI-41 
MaTMITy se XVI-124 
may Wa XVI-69 
APPUIAA Az- XVI-180 
mTMMITT Gey XVI-96 
a (57). 
Te: aot XIV-1 
aeeRRR Ta egyTy XI-7 
aeeaeneeret IL-4 
THalaiotaset- ll-3 


TURAN Tal Iv-24 
aaa a V-2R 
aera ger V-2R 
TH FEMA: SM- VILU-12 
afaraiorrt aft VI-14R 
oleae ATS VI-19 R 
araaralercattes XIV-12 
Tea FY ya XIV-48 
Tea Sa ATAM- VIE-15 
OBS Cra AL XII-8 
eu T HAM XV-9 
amine VI-14R 
aanharneeaa VIII-15 
ae WTayIS XIV-51 
TATA TRI VII-12 
aarataars J XII-10R 
wah: aaa a XI 6R 
ae Fe TT TT VI-14R 
TAA TT XI-6R 
AER AER ARAL, XII-11R 
AMAA TAT XulI-22 
ratgacinat geea«-XVI-196R 
faafagraars fad- V-2R 
Haris: areas VI-19 
i aitazars XVI- 12 
oa salen: Ea XVI-21 
Saga: GARSATART XVII-59 
Fara: TAT Tai XVII- 53 
alan: Aa: AA XVII-51 
qaaees Rastast XVII~75 
wade wn =  —«-XVIL-83 
qaaseastga: sat - XVII-107 
qaqa: Het TA XVII-91 
qaaer: get waa = XVII-67 
aaHaSHReTT: Tey XVI-172 
aia eetatt Te XVI-89 
a qa: B3- I-8 
Aat AaAAaT WA XI~21 
deeafortaet— 1-9 
are aA, XIV-67R 


waar IA XIV-59 
reg TNT Iv-29 
atalet g set ore II-1 
faronnasy yeeq- III-3R 
fanned Hea VIII-10 
faaliiantirrerd- X-18R 
REPTAAA: WR IV-26R 
fay: sea eaitreq- I-9R 
Gam qarana- XIV-67R 
Berga Isher sity XIV-11 
Rants Tada: XIV-11R 
anhaaEe TET XIV-11R 
antraeraearet XIV-11 R 
z( 49) 
aeronepeRiaa V-2R 
zala vast ta VIII-2 
ward sire a VII-2 
BAAR VATS XIV-28 
Za Uta: XVI-140 
ZN Ziesaesat XV-49R 
BARA VI-12 
BMT XV-47 
ZNO AA XIV-65 
ZIM: ZR J XV-49 R 
ARMM Areata BA XI-16 
ata wafaci ftgaa- XVI-176R 
RR AeaTy II-15R 
faaceht sara =—- XVI-196 R 
feats, Rar XV-2 
fear qraneTay IV-38 
Tau T aia: za: XVI-65R 
qBeIerh 3 4 IV-37 
Sars areey XIV-26 
Reh wat Sere I-17 
Sat wat fet Feo: II-17R 
2a: GAT: Tal Wall II-17 R 
SeMSHaR: XIV-67 R 
Reta: gat XVI-110 
Sry aba aay XVI-188 
egy Freed iret XVI-146 


ga WUaRaaR- 
asta: 
qasdaim: eter 
RAY NTI AY 

ROA GATTI 
great 3 ae 
FACE CAS ass | 
arenfegarat 
zalal J Weta 
facet ATTA 
igalam: arergT: ae 
Rare: aera: 5 
| vias: sac 
fgeren: aeatSaga: 
grieriea: FAIA 
facil waste: ea 
aa Hale 
ean ACA 

gu ey faenaege- 
TATEAT: FAY 


(18) * 


qaad aad 
BCI TIGtI OC 
qaretat FA alsa: 
wart feeriaeiter: 
aalaaltaaraa: 
aa simaakea 
qe Tat SATS 
we a2q feraeta- 
qatar: LaTaTe: 
wa TATA 


XVII-98 
XVII-106 
XVII-2 
XVI-2 
XV-40: 
XV-3 
XHI-20 
I-15 R 


XII-10 
XIV-67 R 
V-7 
XVI-129 
XIV-67 R 
XVI-40. 
XVI-52 
XVI-9 
XVI-13 
XVI-114 
XVI-77 
XVI-104 
XVI-80 
XVI-157 
XVI-175 
IV-25 


(17) 


fre aye XVI-103 
ea Raa XVI-62 
a (22) 

a Brgitegt eeaya- XV-33 
TMT FS, XIV-11R 
awafahiale: art  XIV-67 RK 
ware THT Ts XVII-11 
Aaa ATT: LAL, XVI-35 
aM SagA- V-2R 
TRAST ALIA FAS XVII-61 
aR aaaheya- XIV-67R 
AMT: FAS AETII— XIV-€7 R 
fafsasoaat IV-41 
frferaneraTs FTI X-16 
fironTe fra XV-48 
faferanenaaltegaag - IX-17 
fferonsrad Sarre IV-40 
fata a eit- XV-41 
farsregera erate X-35 
(aa eT XIV-15 
Aa aed ae [ea |e XVII-12 
Mad Ta aaa I-11 
atarent HlatateTa XI-12 
aa Farenendata XIV-67R 
AaATTaeATE XIV-67R 
q(50) 
Traeynhrry XV-49R 
Gara: Wes IV-34 
qaa ria eat XVI-173 
daa ayaa: XVI-7 
daasseratsat XVI-33 
TIS: Fasa F XVI-48 
qetgareaqaga XVI-145 
Re BAVA: XVII-48 
TART AEGrHAT XV-21 
Weg J Te Ix-8 
WATTS sat V-2R 
qresiart az XI-18 
orarafacatiand 1 4 X-29 
Tralieraatiert XIV-13 


a. 7, Re 


afm eg 
4 wa alert 
qariizeama 

G37: Fae wat 
TAMPA TTS 
garqaqua astagia 
qawaga et 

ned cucaibantted = 
CEI eO Ged 
quieti-garaai 

Qa ada waa 
qaaleaarera 


98 F yaqesia 
998 & feta 
TIASAMADAK 
TTA SSNS 
TAA Seay aatel 
TITAS AT NT 
saTaSHeaaHa 
STASHED 
STASERTAA 
Task frat 
TAPS SAAR 
samryeaata- 
wait Faas aly 
MAGA asian 
Tae SRT 
oa azaterbard 
RaW II 
%(5) 
FON AACTAT: 
Fa WNIT TT 
wat FG HS F 


IV-11R 
XVII-77 
XII-18 R 
XIV-61 
XII-8 
IV-23 
XIV-32 
X-31 
X-33 
XVI-120R 
XVI-190 
VIi-18 
-4 
VII-5 
VI-14 
XV- 22 
XV-26 
XIV-38 
XVI-105 
XVI-102 
XVI-31 
XVI-171 
XVI-115 
XVI-88 
XVI-113 
XVI-141 
XVI-85 
XVI-20 
XVII-29 
XIII-15 
XII-8 R 
XVII-58 
Iv-4 
X-34 
XIV-19 
XI-6R 


V-16 
XI-13 
V-2R 


Hele AAT FE IX-6 
Gente Reonasy XIV~67 
a (43) 
ayy ara ersies XVI-122 
ayers: S- XVI~46 
aA: TS wet XVI-54 
HRSA FASTA XVI-71 
audrey set XVI-169 
watt tySqgiga: XVI-184 
qe aT - IV-17 
FETA ST XV-20 
wees aaa: XI-10 
wed vad AA aTTTA: xI-4 
art afer warnF- XIV-2 
fg aT eR XIV-34 
fargraayTey XV-51 
faegaet aor Te XV-44 
freqinseTt IX-3 
ae Fe TH VUI-3 
fegtaa ame sqd =—- XVII-73 
fraud cage sya = XVII-89 
faghtaatsd: sata y= XVII-9 
fagkaa aaa aq = XVII-41 
ragieva: Gta: aga == XVIL-105 
fgeaa: aaeatsia == XVII-57 
eg: HOS a7 VII-3 
rg: we THA XiI-3 
freq: are wate fe X73 
fara: ae faneraa- X-3 
fq: a ene VI-3 
fara fad acnefakaae— V-4 
Rast atrsa-A- VItI-9 
aaaes TATA 1X-16 
qvagt ged get XVH~52 
ar7ey tan aher Ix-2 
SIs TEN VT Hli-9 R 
qareeaard akeTal IX-15 
ga sera a IxX~4 
qaugIMTsty- IxX-4R 
TIPAUTTAY Ae XVI-14 


grams were, «= XVI-152 
qarsat say IX-21 
gisitcresnte: XVI-93 
Sf FAS GaAs FSI— IV-22 
SA FT FIRISH IX-12 
FYAAINCT XVI-50 
3 (44) 
Hage, AFASLAT I-1 
ANAT TET 1V-5 
ara sia waearateta: XVI-120R 
wna al aaASe aHiea- —-- XIV—-14 
Prec Uc V-12 
apie XVI-194 
aPgaheraseATT X-26 
areal Tare XVI-109 
wa fare aqaers XIV-37 
waTay gaia XVI-196 
Wael Fa FS IV-19 
wseraay aaAERTA ll-17R 
wan Resear II-3R 
WaT wR XIV-56 
Tae as IV-41 R 
WAS Was VIlI-7 
AIR Teriet XIV-67 R 
ater: FAT XVI-120 
rt XVI-178 
af XI-6 R 
WRT F XI-5 R 
AAAITIe: SI, XVI-185 
VIII-16 
Frndesioner: XII~11 
aaa Frade = XVI-43 
Aaagd ged oe XVII-36 
Was ay II-6 
ameqadare— VIUI-1 
Aaeratise VIII-6 
aa enqaer- XIV-50 
aransdrrarer VIll~7 R 
Paretaaza BE HI-8 R 
AmEPTe TT XVI-177 


XV1-66 
Warnmad Tw XVI-149 
atnennge ae XVI-121 
Ward Tae: Fae XIII-5 
Wasa a: Gs VII-4 
Waa den VIU-13R 
Arrsail Hy VIlI-14 
Matas Bs XI-15R 
arash Vill-13 
alissa aaa XVII-40 
MGA BM ye IV-13 

4(51) 

aftaparacart XVI-167 
HIAHOMTH Be XIV-28R 
TICKS OR XIV-28 R 
aateaegM FTA IX-9 
RIAL TES TA I-10 
asitaHaaTt XIII-17 
WI DAREN xIlI-3 
Fea WEN I-12 
AIT Bt UD XII-6 
We: eae Gaaa— I-15 R 
aan X-10 R 
Weate SATHS XIV-46 
Haren aa XVI-23 
Aennesraay wate: =—-- XVI-78 
Fara ae XVI-189 
Feral XVI-123 
PTAA XIV-41 
Feit Gaus Frala X-25 
Haid aaa XI-14 
Teaewaamagy XII-16 
Hasaai XII-8 R 
a-qeaniqa Rear XII-15 
HATE Tite Darr’ XU-17R 
eA SMI XUI-19 
RS HTT ate XVI-168 
HT TFTA: TR XIV-67 R 
aightarrrene VII-16 


We Geren § XIV-67R 


ATE TSM: XVI-94 
aM ReIaENTe XIV-28 R 
Wea A Fae XVI-195 
aerasRaitega XVI-15 
aia Pat wqaaed = XVI-111 
STATA XII-8R 
ASEAN VI-4 
naif: ge set XVI-162 
CEE RCOCOEGE IV-10 
Prt we waft GER IV-27 
Hard yaa XIV-33 R 
PACD ENCE XIV-33 
gare eh aa XVI-151 
fe ; Ill-9 R 
TH IRRATd— Iv-1 
qeriaet XII-13 
qa Mee I TT XVII-10 
oF XV-11 
aqIeaiaat XIII-10 
APU TTT XIV—40 
AeararTaaTa XI-15 
Maa ae XIV-11 R 
aanageran 7B— IV-26 
q (27) 

qTaaaMNayzal- XIV-25 
aq weshizay Ta XIV-33 R 
aa feaa: site I-14R 
qapsqishyaeyeaq: XIV-9 
Fa SA TAT I-13 
ae Aza: XIII-22 R 
Fl AA AAHOITA X-10 
RIA Ve XV-37 
ak dreaatraai IV-34R 
a deaatart IV-34R 
ARIAL FET 1-15 
wee I ARTA V-2R 
FIRM Akasa XIV-7 
afer ahs ea XIV-10 
qe args F XIV-39 
FRME TARA IX-7 
Aaa SA TET XIV—-23 


(20) 


3 X-16R 
Waersarea XIV-21 
WAAIEG eae: VII-4R 
a waaay XIV-6 
q TrUAATT XIV-5 
By caves cca XI-5 
ag 4 ay Halt | XI-5 R 

ag ay Aura I-14R 
AAA TAT II-8 
a ae: gira XIV-31 
t (42) 
TaaR BA XV-54 
weareyeni 4 V-2R 
Tae ANITA XV-12 
waeiqe wad Ret ~=XVI-196R 
Wea aaa XII-2 
waurazieaaae- XV-13 
TURE WAPH- XIV-64 
Tat 33 AAAAR- XIV-67 R 
TREO: aaa XIV-f7R 
Taras 4 XIV-67 R 
afta Ferra 1Il-2R 
afataeania aantir XV-23 
wags AAA A I-8 R 
Tah: WATT V-13 
TaEATeTAT- V-2R 
WAZA v-2R 
TAHA XUI-9 
ftgearaa aret XVI-39 
Remraat az XIV-22 
BAU PAA TR XVI-19 
we WS TalaTa- XIV-3 
Re TTT a XIV-67 R 
Rawr sare: TTA XVII-65 
wane sae aI X-2 
Paneregreg alaTs IV-35 
anys: TAL, XIV-67R 
Teaaea: TA XIV-67 R 
ary: TART XIV-67 R 
Tarai Acad a: XV-5 


Tamara: Fei = XVII-1 
Pansat Foes: Har XVII-81 
Paws GF WH XV-45 
Iz: V-2R 
Ware F TMT V-5R 
aera eaeeri = —XVII-33 
tanerna eae =—- XVII-17 
Panes: Lam: TGa =—-« XVII-97 
taera: ang aaa ~=—-XVII-49 
TTAMNATESAT: XVI-37 
wae TGI- XVI-176R 
Tassa JA GST was XVI-49 
wissa Wa aa = XVI-74 
w (37) 
areas TB XVI-53 
TATA TTT XVI-136 
waraTTaa ASF XVI-108 
waa aa XVI-81 
SHIA Az XVI-192 
BTAIAASH-A XVI-26 
RATTA Uh XVI-164 
walera ferret ar XII-1 
CTH ATE, : X-20 
ant wa Rare figar Vi-7 
aaa VI-11 
SAATAT ACA XI 23 
Ars Tear XII-9 
TAHT ATT XIV-47 
BATE Ae et XH-10R 
OAL FESTA: TI-15R 
BAITS Tall XIV-53 
SARTO GAAT XIV-49 R 
SUAS 11-15R 
waleaenane- XII-10R 
wm Raracaer XII-10 R 
moray tad I-7 
aataraqera XIV~45 
SATAY a X1V-18 
BARAT XIV-17 
wag a Tt XV-38 


Waers Foed- 


(33) 
RRA aa: 
THNTIT Perm TTA 
aad vata 3 
qgiz 7a Ma 
qaiaaiada: @ 
THRACE Teas 
AAMT FLATT 
aniianstait: By 
TVA TA 


eqaTey Paar 


Sree eS se wowed 


II-15R 
X-13 
VI-2 

XJV-67 R 

XIV-67 R 

V-2R 
X-45 
X-12 

XVI-128 
IV-41 R 
XVI-92 R 
XIV-19R 
XVII-30 
XVII-21 

XII-22 R 

X-18 

XVII-44 

VI-4R 

XIV-67 R 

XVI-90 
XVI-91 

VII-10 

XIV-67 R 
X-37 

VIII-11 
' XVI-97 
XIV-67 R 


VUiT_Aav 


TTAGTIA X+21 
SMH GE: XVI-47 
oana RAP aR XVI-170 
ARTA spate XVI-76 
Bo afenry tex XVI-179 
a (58) 

TAGS F Tews TA XV-8 
TAT J Tiqvs args XV-28 
aqaa fra XV-19 
aaa: V-2R 
MAC: AAA VTA XVII-103 
RUTTER XII-4 
sara afearerait Xil-14 
amfeeregherrafaaa IV-32 
aaa IX-5 
RvistigasacaTIgy XVII-42 
fatsrate wets aia VI-15 
alae TgREATA Vil-4 
atareaaa ead Vil-21 
ST 7 XILI-4 
gx aaezat IV-15 
Braga Fed Tass XVII-84 
BR I HI AT XVII-86 
grentaaarraR XI~1 
YaaATt ser XI-6R 
QaTTT XI-6 
SAPITT Ha XVI-130 
SOTA FT XVI-186 
SANTA FF XVI-158 
TAI war XVI-75 
Dares ATT XI-20 
geet aeyA XI- 

Bae de XI-5R 
URIs TIF XI-22 
SATA Gt XI-19 
gat Raat gen fa = XVII-90 
ga faa ag amaedt = XVII-87 
BRseaer: Ft Rats  XVIU-96 
gefvs qtéat X-39 
eroee—wereerwreee viTrie 


(22) 


sae war X1V—49 
WH F TAT X-16R 
wT a seat ta IV-32 R 
TIT AAA TA Vil-6 
WTR TTA XV~-49 
TUM Tat VII-8 
NAN A AT II-14 
TN UE TT V-11 
a8 waa ae VII-22 R 
QT: era IN-9 R 
TORNATARTT- IlIl-9R 
steatenit ay XVI-5 
Meas Tee XII-18 R 
sen BT XV-7 
aparaftegateeg VI-9 
senafaaia at Ill-9R 
MATT FEAT II-9R 
arej aeaqacs: XV-28 R 
abet Car TaaHy Te XI-2 
aL Greet XVI-150 
Braga AE Aday XVII-15 
attaforrs abit II-10 
attren g RT XIV-29 
Wa MasAtey XIV—16 
q(11) 
aqrafaated Tat XII-12 
QHeTH: Maw TT XVII-62 
qp-Rari sata aten = XVII-54 
aysitasi ged we XVII-38 
SB PE FT ay XVI-3 
austa: seri sqa = XVII-102 
ay ata: mgd qt = XVII-110 
ap fea: ones XVII-94 
3 FST Hai Fala XVII-22 
GB gt Feasieda: = XVII-78 
ap ra: Waa: Fa = XVII-14 
a (137 ) 
I-6 
SAT THATS I-2 


TEN ATAGE AT 
qeaTeatagary 
aaeMegesea_ 
Fal Bala HS 

VERN AATT AA 
ara aHTATE 
ame aaa 
STAT Fer 


TRAIT 


X~-Z4 
Ili-8 R 
HI-8 
XV—42 
IV—30 
X-30 
l-9 R 
XI-20 R 
XVII-27 
v-8 
XII-17 
XIV-67 R 
XIV-67 R 
v-9 
XV-27 
XV-16 
XV-15 
X-38 
X-36 
v-5 
XV—32 
XIV—-52 
XV~31 
XII-7 
IV-27 R 
XIV-54 
XIV-55 
VI-19R 
VI-19 R 
IX-13 
IV~31 
X~11 
XIV~67 R 
1-5 
I-12 
XI-11 
XVI-131 
VI-13 
XVI-118 


VtUT2o 


ge wr ae: 
Bs Sayan 
ge waka: 
BigkasaarHea 
Ores aes ara: 


(23) 


AVI-1SZ 
XVI-58 
XVI-73 

XVI-156 

XVI-106 

XVI-125 

XVI-153 
XVI-67 

XVI-142 
XVI-27 
XVI-51 
XVI-42 

XVI-181 

XVI-165 
XVI-45 

XVI-100 

XVI-159 
XVI-70 

X-44 
XVI-138 
XVII-85 
XVII-37 

XVI-197 

XVI-84 

X-1 
I-21 
XIV—44 
VI-1 
VI-18 
IV-21 
TI-22 
VI-19 R 
XV-49R 
XIV—4 
XI-8 
V-14 
VI-6 
XV -29 
XVI-57 
Vil-22 


qaqa Tea vi-4 K 
aan’ Feat XVI-196 R 
aM CAL VIII-5 
arated at gaat XIV-35 
aeneait  XIV-33 R 
area: fafa Ba IV-9 
ara at ana XVII-63 
SRITA: HEd TA XVII-99 
aid tar aeale Te XII-2 
dramgakatadtan XII-1 
diissner: sea ae =—-- XVII-112 
Aa fara ag agaedt = XVII-111 
ak: wal daa: sat  —- XVII-109 
etaarareae- XVI-92 
aint sitagaere- X—-43 
aliaszad aaqa X-40 
aiarrererranca- = XVI-112 
AoMT Ay VA XVII-7 
erranaaa Bz XVI-163 
STAAATRTANA: XVI-6 
CIATAISMAT: EAT. XVI-117 
easier Tay XVI-82 
eaMtera Zaye XVI-50 
Ta ATA TTT II-16R 
SIMMER I-16R 
errigaetaer XVI-119 
eared eet XVI-43 
ear aaa aes At = XVII-20 
erases frgra: ware: = XVI-25 
TIMSEy VTE: TAI XVII-80 
ears chat = XVII-16 
wasad tes: XVII-88 
eased Fay: aad XVII-8 


ease’ adea: saa = XVI-104 
eariset Grea |= XVII~24 


ere aoa a Geren =» VII-7 
SIA Atags XVII-31 
aartern Fearn XVI-116 
aated Garg XIV-67R 
eigat aaa XVI-148 


SH BQ 
eastern ay 
eat arg fay a 
eraletraaeard 
Se 
RTA TTS 
eH: TTT ITY 
Feeds Ta 
weed 
Rag erat 
earatanlegien: 
aes qh 


(24) 


IV-3 
XI-6R 
IV-2 
XIV~66 
XV-29 
XII-5 
I-15 R 
I-15 
IX-19 
IV-18 
IV-36 
IV-11R 


wat gee = tié‘éV‘WLW-B 
PASTA LTR X-9 


@( 9) 
gaa fad sat =—« XVII-70 
RAT THAT BB XVII-7 
eRTAA: Bet Aa = XVII-18 
fecal Alea ITS I-19 
Raa: CA XVI-32 
Reaaaggiegn —-XVII-68 
AN CECHTECIE ECE XIV-24 
anna saTeAat X-15 
alee ATE V-2 


INDEX 


The Roman and Arabic numerals against each item refer respectively 
to the chapter to which it belongs and to the number of the Sloka therein. 
(A.V, stands for Ashtakavarga. p.— refers to page. n.— refers to notes). 


A 


AFFLICTION (S) — Period of — XII-9, 
10 ; XIV-40, 44-46. 

AGRICULTURAL —~ XII-5. 

AIRAVATA YOGA — p. 192. 

ANCESTRAL PROPERTY — Inheritance 
of XIV-13. 

ANTARDASA — Determination of order 
— XV-39-42.— of the lord of a 
bhava — effect of —XV-50, 51. 
System to fix— from Ashtaka- 
varga XV-50-54. 

APACHAYA — II-16. 

APPARELS — purchase of — XI-4. 

ASHTAKAVARGA — Additions of bin- 
dus in different bhavas to obtain 
cardinal directions — IV-40, 41. 
—_ - Gemputation of ~- preparation 
of a chart of — -p. 6n.— of the 
Sun in the Standard Horoscope 
p. 28n.—Of- all planets p, 32.— 
Of Lagna—II-18-21.— Of Rahu 
— JI-22.—~Order of donors to be 
followed for elimination of bindus 
of —II-15; n.— System explain- 
ed—-I-13, 14.—Tables giving 
auspicious places pp. 23, 24n.-- 
To be prepared from Chalila 
Kundali— p. 8n. 

AUSPICIOUS DEEDS — Time to under- 
take for success — VI-6. 

Avus — Contributed by a planet 
* for othe ‘fiative XV-1 1-4 ;— Reduc- 

- tior vin—xDig to various causes 
XV-48-29, = System: of finding -- 
from Ashtakavaraga ‘(See also 
” under lifé)~XV-F-48, 


B 


BACK — Affliction to XIII-4, 

BANDHU — definition of XIV-18. 

BED— Acquirement of chamber — 
direction of —XI-4, 12; XIII-2. 

BHAVA (S) — Auspicious and in- 
auspicious directions IV-40-42. 
Conditions for prosperity of a — 
bindus XIV-7, 15, 16.— Consi- 
deration of —as a Lagna IV-19. 
Consideration of effects of planets 
(malefic and benefic) in a— 
IV-8-11. Considerations to be 
made from different —IV-1-7. 
Destruction of the effects of a— 
XIV-37,38,. Effects due to—I-7- 
12. Effects of —.Bindus contained 
in several — XIV-1°}—- When oc- 
cupied by benefics and malefics 
1-7-9, 15. Gauging the capacity 
of a— p. 53n. Good—XIII-21, 22. 
Good and bad position of planets 
in different — I-13. Good and bad 
effects XIV-37-39, Kakshya divi- 
sion of a—p. 63n. Minimum 
number of bindus prescribed for 
—~XIV-12. Occupied by benefics 
and malefics— effect of —IV-8- 
10. Period' for good or bad effect 
of a bhava XIV-38. Strength of— 
according to number of bindus in 
individual Ashtakavarga IV-26, 
27. Transited by many planets 
— effect on XIV-8, 9. Time of frui- 
tion of the effects of a—V-4 
and notes. 

SHERI YOGA — effect of —p. 198, 


gion Deas of XV. BHINNASHTAKAVARGA — Of the. ‘Sun 


(26) 


and other planets in the Standard 
Horoscope pp. 52, 33. 

BHINNAYUS DASA— when to apply 
XV-33, 34. 

BINDU(S) — As a benefic point 
denoted by ‘O’—p. 5n. Com- 
putation of—in proper bkavas 
I1-3. Definition of —p. 5n. Dif- 
ference in—and rekhas — effect 
of IV-35. Effect of —in a bhava 
position to be predicted in eight 
ways II-3. Number of bindus in 
Samudayashtakavarga — effect of 
—in particular cases p. 26n. 
Maximum and minimum number 
of—in a bhava p. 3ln. Order 
of the donors of —p. 25. Samu- 
dayashtakavarga — II-17. To be 
recorded from the houses ( bhavus) 
occupied by the planets and the 
Lagna in preparing Ashtakavarga 
of each planet II-13. Total num- 


ber of—received by — several 
planets JI-17.—received by 
Lagna p. 34, 


BRIDE (BRIDEGROOM) — (See under 
Venus also). Direction of a place 
from where to be selected — for 
happy marriage XI-10. Janmarasi 
of—auspicious in certain cir- 
cumstances VII-17-20. 

BROTHERS (SISTERS) — Benefit to 
native through — VIIT-16. Con- 
sideration of —from the Ashtaka- 
varga of Mars VITI-14,15. Effect 
for—to be considered from the 
Karaka (Mars) IV-20. Longe- 
vity of —VIII-13; pp 96, 97, 
Misfortune (or death) to--of 
Kinsmen IX-13, 14. Number of 
—- VIII-6, 7; p. 97. 

BRUISES — Danger from XIII-5. 


Cc 


CARDINAL DIRECTION(S) — Location 
and use of—for different purt- 
poses XIII-2, 3.~— Location of 


—from Chara and Sthira chakras. 
IV-40-42, 

CATTLE — Location of place for — 
X-7. 

CHARACTER — (See under person). 

CHILD(REN) — Adoption — condi- 
tions under which there is a 
possibility of — X-25.-—— When not 
possible X-26, 28.— Affliction to 
—p. 153n. For being blessed — 
X-21, 22. — Birth of a — X-31-46. 
—Condition for early or late 


birth of a—X-31-32. Consi- 
deration of—IX-4; XIV-32. 
Matters relating to — to be 
determined from the Ashtaka- 


varga of Jupiter X-12-15.— Me- 
thods of finding out number of 
— X-14, 16-20, 24,— Natural — 
rare possibility in certain cases 
— X-29, 30.—Short life of — 
XII-11.— Time when impregna- 
tion may take place for the birth 
of a—- X-7, 

SONCEPTION — possible period of -— 
p. 113n, 

COuRT CASES-— Success in — IX-17, 

COWHOUSE —- Location of — XIV-20. 


D 


DAY-TO-DAY PREDICTIONS — method 
for — XIV-54-67. 

DANGER — apprehension of — XII- 
6; XIII-5. 


DAMARA YOGA — effects of — p. 192. 

DASA(S) —Bhinnayus (See under 
Bhinnayus) — Auspicious -- XV- 
43.-~effect of—on a native XIV- 
197. Judgement of a—after 
consideration of A.V. of planets. 
IV-18. Order — Determination of 
XV-37-42. Period of planetary — 
XV-21-23. Samudaya—of a 
native when to apply XV-35, 36. 

DAUGHTER — birth of — XI-2. (See 
under child also). 

bEATH — Accidental — apprehension 
of — XTI-14; XIII-6, One’s own. 


(27) 


—possible period of — VI-18; 
VII-8 ; XII-6-10, 16, 17; XIII- 
8-20 ; XIV-41-43, 53. One's own 
and of relatives to be considered 
from Karaka planets XIII-7. Of 


relatives— period to find— 
XIIE-7, 8. 
DELINEATIONS — General I-12, — 


Particular I-12. 

DIRECTION (S) — Auspicious or other- 
wise —to be decided on parti- 
cular number of indus in the 
combination of bkavas IV-40. 
Cardinal — containing highest and 
least number of indus — effect 
of IV-40 41. 

DISEASES — Period of — XIV-45-48, 
50, 51. 

DONORS ---Order of —-of bindus 
mentioned in Brihat-jataka p. 25. 
In respect of seven planets and 
the Lagna—H-17. Table of — 
p. 28. 

DUMBNESS — conditions for -- IX-5. 

DUNGCAKE -— site for — XII-5. 


E 


EDUCATION - -- Success in — IX-15-17, 

EFFECTS — variations in—in tran- 
sit. — I-15. 

EKADHIPATYASHODHANA — II-15. ~- 
Meaning of —p. 40n. Nirayana 
positions of planets to be consi- 
dered, for reductions in respect of 
—p. 65. Rules regarding — 
TII-4-8; p. 44n. When to be 
carried out — III. 

EXPENSES — frequent — XI-3. 

EXPENDITURE — Less or more-- 
conditions for XIV-16. 

F 

FACE — Afflictions to — XIII-4. 

FAMILY WELFARE — to be considered 
from the 4th house from Mercury 
IX-4, 

FATHER — Administrative powers 
and fame of—VI-9. Appear- 


ance and stature of—IV-21 
Brothers, sisters, etc. of —-IV-21- 
23. Demise of — VI-10-15 XIII- 
78. Effects for—to be considered 
from Karaka (Sun) IV-20. Fame 
of —IV-21. One's separation from 
-— VII-16. Positions of Saturn, 
Jupiter and Sun to be considered 
to determine the possible time of 
death of —VI-16, 17. Things to 
be considered about —IV-12. 


FIREWOOD —- Places for — XIT-5 ; 
XIII-3. ; 
FOREIGN COUNTRY—-Travel to— 


XII-9. 
G 

GHATAKA— meaning and effect of 
— XIV-18. 

GOCHARA — Effect of a planet placed 
in favourable/unfavourable posi- 
tion V-14. Effects to be consi- 
dered of a---p. 232n.- Effects 
of transits of various planets 
through different bhavas — Sun's 
A.V. XVI-1-28; Moon’s A.V. 
XVI-29-56 ;; Mars’ A.V. XVI-57- 
84; Mercury’s A.V. XVI-85-112 ; 
Jupiter's A.V. XVI-113-140; 
Venus’ AV. XVI-141-167 ; 
Saturn’s A.V. XVI-168-195. 

GRAHAGUNA YOGA — Definition of — 
III-9. 

GRAHAPINDA — Definition of — III- 


9; pp. 44, 45n. 

GRAHA MULTIPLIERS--- Table of — 
p. 43n. 

GULIKA — Pramana — Def-nition 


and uses of — XIII-15, 16. Rising 
time of—p. 123n. Transit of 
Sun, Moon or Jupiter over the — 
effect of X-34. 
H 
HAPPINESS — Conjugal — XI-5. — 
Loss of — XII-18. 
HEAD — Afflictions to— XIII-4. 
HEART — Afflictions to — XIII-4. 
HOUSE — of death — XII-4, 


(28) 


HUSBAND — Death of -— XI-23. 
Effect for—to be considered 
from Karaka planet IV-20. Pros- 
perous life of --- Dependant upon 
Janmarasi of wife VII-20. 

I 

INCOME -- Less or more than ex- 
penditure-. conditions for XIV 
16. 

(NTELLIGENCE -- lack of -- EX-12. 

IssuES —- (See under child). 

J 

JANMARASI-- of wife for prosperity 
VIT-17-20. 

JOINTS —- Afflictions to - - XITI-4. 

JUPITER- Auspicious positions of 
—in his A.V. II-9. In conjunc- 
tion with Moon — effects of X-11. 
In exaltation, Kendra, own or 
9h house and associated with 
different number of dindus — 
effect of X-9. In unfavourable 
position -— effect of — XIII-4. 
Passage through bhava contain- 
ing highest number of bindus — 
effect of — X-5. Position at birth 
in different Kakshyas-— General 
effects of —- XVII-65-80. Things to 
be considered from — IV-14; X-4. 
Transit of — through bhavas con- 
taining 8-0 Bindus in his A.V. 
X-1. Transit of— through the 
asterism obtained from multi- 
plication of Shodhyapindas of 
planets by the respective bindus 
of —effect of-—VI-17. Transit 
of over Rahu--- effect of — 
XIII-9.-- over asterism occupied 
by lord of the 6th house --- XIII- 
9. ‘Transit of-. through a Kak- 
shya—fiaving a bindu in his 
A.V. X-2. Transit—void of a 
bindu in his A.V. X-3. 

JUPITER'S A.V,— cardinal direction 
to be selected for success from —- 
X-6. Effect of position of Sun in 
a bkave with least number of 


bindus in—X-8. Matters relat- 
ing to children to be considered 
from - X-12,. 13. 

K 

KAHALA YOGA- - effect of-—p. 191. 

KAKSHYA— effect of planets-— 
when transitting a—V-2. Lords 
of---to be reckoned in a bhava 
from south to north V-2, 
Janmarasi of wife from-—- VIJ- 
19, 20. Method of dividing a 
bhava into — V-4n. 

KARANA -—— p. 17n. 

KARAKA(S) --- effects of - - I1V-20. --- 
for different persons (father, 
mother, etc.) p. 56n.-- of a bhava 
when—-is posited in a bhava 
p. 52n. 

KARTIKEYA -— worship — of -- VIII-5. 

KATAPAYADI SYSTEM - p. 22n. 

KEMADRUMA YOGA effect of 
XIII-1. 

KHANDA — with least and greatest 
number of bindus—- effects of -- 
p. 190-192. (See under life stages 
also). 

KHAJANA — location of - . XITII-3. 

KING - - audience with - - VIII-5. Ser- 
vice of -- in the ‘direction having 
maximum number of bindus in 
Sun’s A.V. VI-5. 

KINGSHIP --- conditions for 
9; XIV-26, 27. 

KINSMEN -- loss of --- IX-16. 

KITCHEN -- location of —- XIII-2, 

KNOWLEDGE -- gain of- XI-2. Con- 
sideration of —- X-4. 

L 

LAGNA -- Auspicious positions of ~—- 
from different planets. ITI-18-21. 
Consideration from ---IV-1. Lord 
of — in 4th bkava with specified 
bindus — effect of — XIV-23. 

LAGNA A.V.— Addition of bindu in 
—to Sarvashatakavarga —use of 
—p. 34-35n. Consideration of 
wife from —-p. 145. Ayus contri- 
buted by —- XV-23. 


VINI-8, 


(29) 


LAND — Favourable conditions for 
—-to be determined from cardinal 
directions- -VIII-12, 13. Loss of 
~~ XH-3. Purchase of  - VIII-4. 

LIFE --- Happy -- conditions _for -- 
XIV-13. Length _ of --- one’s - 
XIV-52., State of --- XIV-28. 
Stages of | XI1V-33-36. Period of 

of a native Maximum period 
of XV-10, 13. 

LOINS- Afflictions to - XIII-4. 

LONGEVITY To be found from AY. 
of Saturn XIV-52, XITI-4. 
Effect of addition of bindus from 
other planets to Saturn, cte., and 


vice versa for determining - 
XII-5, 6. 
M 
MADDHALA YOGA-- effect of-  p. 
191, 
MAHASHTAKAVARGA |p. 173n. XIV- 
65. 


MANDALA -- Definition of -XV-17. 

MANTRAS --- Consideration of- -TX- 
4, Initiation, 2tc. into sacred- - 
X-5. 


MANTRESWARA --p, 21n. p. 38n. 
p. 45n., 

MARRIAGE --- Conditions for —- from 
the Moon’s A.V. VII-17, 18. 


From Venus’s A.V.-—XI-20, 21. 
Date of -- XI-22, p. 145. Deter- 
mination of direction for prospe- 
rous-~ XI-5. Performance of -- 
XI-4, 

MARRIED LIFE—~ Happy or unhappy 
XI-20, 21. 

MARS -—— Auspicious positions of — 
in his A.V. II-6, 64 Additions of 
bindus from Saturn to — and 
vice versa effect of — XHII-5. In 
unfavourable positions — effect 
of —XIII-4. Position at birth 
in different Kakshyas — General 
effects on account of — XVII-33- 
48. Things to be considered from 
—-IV-13, VIII-14, Transit of — 


in his A.V. with different num- 
ber of bindus - Kakshyas --- VIII- 
1-3. Transit of-~through a 
bhava containing highest number 
of bindus in his A.V. VITI-4. 

MATERNAL RELATIONS -- Considera- 
tion of -. IX-4, 


MENTAL AGITATION - causes of -- 
XIT-3. 
MERCURY Auspicious positions of 


-in his A.V. TI-7, 8. Brings 
about dumbness IX-5. Effect of 
specch due to bindus in 2nd 
bhava from IX-5-11. In un- 
favourable positions - effect of - 
XIII-4. In Kendra or Trikona 
with different number of bindus 
-effect of | IX-18. Position at 
birth in different Kakshyas- 
Gencral effects on account of - 
XVII-49-64. Things to be consi- 


dered fram  IV-13, IX-4. Tran- 
sit of --Jn his A.V. with diffe- 
rent number of bdindus —-~ Kak- 
shyas --TX-1-3. 

MIND - - Digtartion of - -1X-12, 
XII-3. 

MISERIES - Period of XII-3, XIII- 


5. XIV-45-48. 
MISFORTUNE -— Period of -— XIII-6. 


MNEMONIC(§) ---In — Ashtakavarga 
computation II-14. — Verses- - 
II-4-13. 


MOON — Auspicious positions of 
—in her A.V. II-5. In unfavour- 
able positions — effect of — XIII- 
4. In depression and _ inimical 
house and certain other bhavas 
with 2-3 bindus VII-9. In exalta- 
tion and in certain bkavas with 
4 or more bindus -— VII-10. Posi- 
tion at birth in different Kak- 
shyas —General effect of—XVII- 
17-32. Things to be considered 
from --IV-12. Transit in her A.V. 
with different number of bindus 
--- effect of — Kakshyas — VII- 


(30) 


1-3. Transit through a bkava 
with different number of bindus 
— effect of VII-4-6. 

moon’s A.V. — Auspicious — Cardi- 
nal directions — VII-7. 

MOTHER — Possible period of de- 
mise—--—to be found out 
from Moon’s A.V.—VI-18. Pos- 
sible period of death — VII-16, 
21. Separation from— VI-16. 
Effect for —to be considered from 
Karaka (Moon) — IV-20. 

MULTIMILLIONAIRE -—- Conditions for 
VIII-8. 

MULTIPLIERS — Graha -- Rasi — 
HII - -9 and notes. 

Music — Learning of — XI-4. 

N 


NETT EXCESS—of stekhas over 
bindus — effect of-—-II-16 and 
notes. 

NETT EXCESS—of Jindus over 
tekhas — effect of —II-16 and 
notes. 

P 


PARASARA - -Method fo!lowed in the 
book in preparation of A.V. Chart 
— p-21n. 

PARENTS — Demise of — VI-11. 

PINDASHTAKAVARGA -— p. 173n. 

PLACES — Benefic and malefic in the 
preparation of A.V. —definition 
of~-p. 17n. Capable of produc- 
ing auspicious results — II-16. 

PLANETS — Benefic — Advances the 
effect of a bhava IV-9. Capacity 
to produce good or bad effects 
IV-36, 37 and n.— Combined 
effect of — passing through Kak- 
shyas having dbindus or rekhas — 
V-6-10. Effect of—when asso- 
ciated with 8-1 bindus —IV-28- 
31. When passing through Kak- 
shyas with or without a bindu -~- 
V-5, 11. In exaltation, etc. with 
different number of bindus — 
-effect of —IV-36, 37. Malefic— 


destroys the effect denoted by 
a bhava —IV-8. Movement of 
—through different Bbkavas I-15. 
Effects to be judged after exami- 
nation A.V. of — IV-18. — pass- 
ing through a bhava — with cer- 
tain number of bindus in his A.V. 
IV-32-34. Strength of —IV-17, 
18. Transit of —through bhavas 
having greater number of Dindus 
IV-39, V-3. Weak in strength 
— effects of IV-17. 

PLANETARY POSITION — Interpreta- 
tion of results from Kakshyas 
267n. 

POINTS — Benefic or 
5n. 

POSHAKA — XIV-18, 

PRASNAMARGA — p. 17n, p. 39n. 

PRASTARASHTAKAVARGA -—— Prepa-a- 
of —V-1, 2 and notes. 

PREDICTION — day to day — method 
to find — XIV-54-67. Kinds of 
— I-7-12. 


malefic — p. 


PRIVATE PARTS — Afflictions to — 
XII-4. 

PROGENY — (Ref. Children). 

PROSPERITY — After 40th year — 


Conditions for—- XIV-24. Judg- 
ment on—of a person — XIV- 
29, 30. 

Privy — Location of — XII-5, XITI- 
3. 

R 

RAHU— Auspicious positions of—from 
different Planets — II-22. Bhinna 
A.V. of —use of —p. 36n. Con- 
junction with Jupiter — in Dhanus 
and Meena — effect of transit of 
Jupiter over —XIII-9, In 6th 
8th, and 12 bhavas — effect of — 
XIV-31. Transit of — over trine 
rasis with ref. to Dwadasamsa 
rasi of the Lord of 8th—XIII- 
10, 11. 

RAJAYOGA — Nullification of-~-XI-12. 

RASICHAKRA — II-2. 


(31) 


RASIGUNA YOGA — Definition’ of — 
III-9, 

RAS] MULTIPLIERS—Table—p. 43n. 

RASIPINDA — Definition of — IITI-9 
p. 44n. 

RECIPIENTS — of 
p. 28. 

REDUCTION — Elimination of bindus 
in —— II-15. 

REKHA --~ As a malefic point— p. 5n, 


bindus — table — 


p. 17n, p. 27. Denoted by — 
“1° p, Sn. Difference in — and 
bindus — effect of — when in 


excess of bindus —- IV-35. Total 
number of — for different planets. 
~~ p. 27. 
RELATIONS — Loss of — IX-16, 21. 
RELIGION -~- Consideration of — X-4. 
RESIDENCE — Favourable condition 
for-—to be decided from cardinal 
directions — VII-10-13. 
S 
SAKALA A.V. p. 173n. 
SAPTAVARGA — Table p. 16. 
SAMUDAYA A.V.—Definition of — 
p. 173n.— Planets associated 
with more or less number of 
bindus —effect of — XIV-5-6.— 
Total bindus — II-17, XIV-4. 
SARVACHANCHACHAKRA — Applica- 
tion of — cHaAps. XVI-XVII — 
Explanation and chart — use of 
— for predicting result — p. 64. 
SARVANGA YOGA — Effect of p. 192. 
SATURN — Auspicious positions in his 
A.V.—TII-12, 13. Additions of 
bindus from Lagna/Saturn to and 
vice versa—effect of — XII-9, 
10, XITI-5, XIV-45-48. In com- 
bust or in inmical house-effect of 
—XII-13. In first bhava — 
effect of — XII-12. In unfavour- 
able position — effect of — XIIT-4. 
Position at birth in different 
Kakshyas — general effect on ac- 
count of — XVII-97-112, Sign 
containing the least number of 
bindus — ascendent — and as solar 


month — XII-12. Things to be 
considered from —IV-16. Things 
to be considered from A.V. of — 
XIJ-15, Transit of —in his A.V. 
having different number of bindus 
— Kakshyas — XII-13. Transit of 
—through the asterism obtained 
from the Shodhyapinda of p‘anets 
— effect of — VI-14, 15. VII-21, 
VUI-15, IX-21, p. Sln. XI-23 
XII-16-18, XIH-7, 8. Transit of 
—through a bhava containing no 
bindus in his A.V.—XII-7, 8, 11. 
Transit of — in bhavas without a 
bindu in the A.V. of Sun and other 
planets IV-38. Transit of — 
through 9th house from Lagna or 
Moon VI-11. Transit of — through 
a bhava having no bindu in 
Mercury's A.V. — IX-13, 14. — 
Weak in strength — effect of —- 
IV-17. 

SCROTUM — Afflictions to XITI-4. 

SERVANTS — Acquisition of — XII-5, 

SEVAKA — XIV-18. 

SEXUAL ENJOYMENTS — XI-4, 

SHADVARGABALA — Tables — pp. 13. 
14, 

SHIVA — Workship of — VI-5. 

SHODHYAPINDA — Definition of — II- 
9, p. 44n. 

SHODHYAVASHISHTA — Definition of 
—p. 44n. In A.V. of any planet 
— effects after multiplications — 
by bindus of other planets — 
XIII-7. 

SHORT LIFE — XIV-52. 


SISTERS— (See under  Children/ 
Brother). 

SNAKE-BITE — XIV-31. 

SPEECH — Defect in — good — slug- 


gish, etc. — IX-5-11. 
SON — Birth of (see under child). 
STHANA -— A benefic place --- p. 

17n. 

STHIRACHAKRA — IV-41, and notes. 
sTupy — Commencement of —IX- 
15-17, 19, 20. 


(32) 


SUN — Auspicious positions in his 
Demise of father— 


AV.—IL-4. 
possible time to find out from 
Sun’s A.V. VI-10-17.—In Lagna or 
in inimical or in debilitation with 
2-3 bindus in his A.V.—VI-7. 
—In Lagna in exaltation with 5 or 
more bindus in—A.V. VI-7. In 
unfavourable position — effect of 
—In conjunction with Mars, 
Saturn or Mercury in Kendra — 
VI-9. In Jupiters A.V. with least 
number of bindus — effect of -— 
X-8. Position at birth in diffe- 
rent Kakshyas— General effect 
on account of — XVII-1-16 — 
Things to be considered from — 
IV-12. Time of death of native or 
father with—-in Kendra or Tri- 
kona with specific bindus — VI-8. 
Transit of—in his A.V. having 
different number of bindus—Kak- 
shyas — VI-1-3.. Transit of — 
through bhavas having different 
bindus---V1-4. Transit of—throngh 
a Kakshya having or not having 
a bindu in his A.V.— VI-12-15. 


T 
TABLES —- Ashtakavarga tables pp. 
23-24, bhava strength p. 15, 


Bhavas with Sandhis, p. 12, Do- 
nors and recipients p. 25, Lagna 
A.V. p. 34,-—- order of donors p. 
25, planetary positions p. 11, Pras- 
tara A.V. (Sun) p. 61, Rahus 
A.V. p. 35, Rasi and Graha-multi- 
pliers p. 43, Samudaya A. V. 172, 
174, 175, Saptavargas p. 16, 
Shadvargabala pp. 13, 14, Trikona 
and Exkadhipatyashodanas pp. 
45-47, p. 198, Ayus, Dasas, Anta- 
ras, etc., CHAP. XV. ; 

TRAVEL — Foreign country ss» XI-S 
— Loss in — XII-3. 

TRIKONA SHODHANA— Pifferent 
schools of thought — in preparing 
~— Method adopted in the book 


Planets to be considered for — 
p. 6—Rules re: —111-1.3 Pp. 
44n. 
TROUBLES — Increase in — XII-3. -- 
Time of — XII-6. 
U 
UPACHAYA — IT-16. 
Vv 
VASI YOGA p. 192. 
VEDAS — Study of — X-5. 
VEENA YOGA — Effect of — p. 192. 
VEHICLES — Location of X-7. 
VENUS — Auspicious positions of -- 
in her A.V. II-10, 11. In Kendra 
or Trikona with different number 
of bindus— effect of —XI-11. 
In unfavourable positions the 
effect of — XIII-4. Occupation of 
houses or Navamsas of Mars and 
Saturn by — effect of — XI-14-15. 
Passage of—through a bhava 
containing highest number of 
bindus — effect of — XI-4. Posi- 
tion at birth in different Kak- 
shyas — general effects on account 
of —- XVII-81-96. Things to be 
considered from—IV-15. Transit of 
—in her A.V. with different num- 
ber of bindus — effect of --- Kak- 


shyas XI-1-3.. Consideration of 
wife (see wife and bride). 
vIDYA— Commencement of — (see 
study). 
VYUHASHTAKAVARGA —~ p. 175n. 


Ww 

WATER — Location of —-VII-7, 
XITII-2. 

WEALTH'—- Ancestral ---- XIV-13.— 
Amassing of—X-5. Condition 
for getting — XIV-14. Considera- 

- tion of —IX-4, X-4. Direction of 
deposit of — XIV-20. Immense 
-~xaccording to the number of 
bindus from 4th to 9th bhavas — 
XIV-25. Hidden — Conditions 
favourable: for obtaining — XIV- 
4, Low of — IX-16, X1-3, XII- 


(33) 


12, 18. Period of acquiring -~- 
XITII-6, XIV-32. 

WEALTHY — XIV-25-28. When Jupi- 
ter occupies certain bhavas - - 
X-8. 

WIFE (WIVES) — Auspicious for the 
welfare of husband X-9. Charac- 
ter-—Complexion of — XI-16-19. 
Death of —XI-7. Death of— 
Simultaneous with husband — 
XI-23. Destroyer of husband’s 
happiness — XI-16. Effect for --- 
to be considered from Karaka 


FH. J 28 


Planet — IV-20. Favourable con- 
ditions for—to be determined 
from cardinal directions — VII- 
10-12. Janma_ asterism of — 
XI-8. Number of — XI-6. 
WORSHIP — Location of direction 
— XIII-2, VI-5, VII-7, VIII-5. 
WOUND (Ss) — Accidental — XII-3. 


Y 


YAMAKANTAKA — Position of —p 
121n. 
YAVANACHARYA — p. 36n. 


10 


ll 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Brihat-jataka of Varahamihira (505-578 A.D.), Eng. transla- 
tion by Swami Vijnanamanda, Sacred Books of the East, 
Vol. XII (1908). 

Bribat-jataka with Sanskrit commentary of Rudra, 15th 
century (Trivandrum 1916). 

Bribat-jataka:| Eng. translation by Panditabhushana V. 
Subrahmanya Sastri, B.A., (Bangalore 1929). 

Bribat-jataka: Eng. translation by N. Chidambara Iyer, 
(Adyar 1921). 

Jataka-parijata of Vaidyanatha Daivajna (1425 A.D.), with 
Sanskrit commentary “ Sudhasalini” of Pandit Kapiles- 
wara Sastri and Hindi commentary “ Vimala” by Pandit 
Matruprasad Sastri (Benares 1942). 

Jataka-parijata with Eng. translation by Panditabhushana V. 
Subrahmanya Sastri, B.A., (Bangalore 1933). 

Vidyamadbaviyam of Vidya Madhava with Vishnusarma’s 
commentary Muhurthadipika, (1363 A.D.), edited by Dr. 
R. Shama Sastry (Mysore 1923). 

Phaladeepika of Mantreswara (17th century), Eng. transla- 
tion by Panditabhushana V. Subrahmanya Sastri, B.A., 
(Bangalore 1932). 

Phaladeepika: "ditions in regional languages. 

Saravali of Kalyanavarma (10th century ?), edited by P. V. 
S. Sastri, B.A.. (Bombay 1928). 

Saravali: WHindi translation by Pandit Shri Sitaram Zha, 
(Benares 1953). 

Saravali: Malayalam edition by P.S.P. Namboodiri, (Quilon 
1927). 

Manasagaripaddbati (?) Edited by Shri Misraparmananda 
Sastri, with Hindi translation, (Benares 1948). 

Jatakabbarana of Dhundhiraja (16th century), with Hindi 
translation by Pandit Shyamlal, (Bombay 1930). 

Shambhu-boraprakasha of Punjaraja with Hindi translation 
by Pandit Mahidharasharma, (Bombay 1937). 

Kalaprakasika of Narasimha (?) Eng. translation by N. P. 
Subramania Iyer, (Tanjore 1927). 


(35) 


17-18 ]yotisha Vijnan Ane Laghu Parasari (1937); Jyotisha Vijnan 


19 
20 


21 


35 
36 


Ane Ashtakavarga (1938) by Shri Uttamram Mayaram 
Thakar, B.A., L.L.B., (in Gujarati, Ahmedabad). 

Prasnamarga (1650 A.D.): with Malayalam translation by 
Punnassiri Neelakantha Sarma, (Trichur 1916). 

Prasnamarga :; with Malayalam translation by K. Neelakantan 
Asari (Quilon 1927). 

Jatakadesamarga of Somayaji of Podumanai (1680 A.D. ?), 
Eng. translation and notes by P. V. S. Sastri, B.A., 
(Bangalore 1942). 

Jatakadesamarga; Malayalam translation by K. Sankaran 
Namboodiri (Trichur 1924). 

Jatakadesamarga: Malayalam translation by K. Neclakantan 
Asari, (Quilon 1927). 

Krishneeyam (?), Malayalam edition (Quilon 1931). 

Bribat-parasaraborasastra (?) with Subodhini Sanskrit com- 
mentary of Shridhara (Bombay 1925). 

Bribat-parasaraborasastra Hindi translation by Pandit Shri 
Sicraram Zha, (Benares 1946). 

Jatakatilaka of Kamalakar (1665 A.D.): Ms. copy, Bhau Daji 
Collection, Asiatic Society of Bombay. 

Bribat-yavanajataka of Meenaraja (150 B.C.) ‘Ms. copy, Bhan- 
darkar Oriental Research Institute, Poona. 

Bribat-yavanajataka: Ms. copy, Baroda Oriental Institute, 
Baroda. 

Jyotishashyamsangraba with Hindi translation by Pandit 
Shyamlal (Bombay 1927). 

J yotireviveka-ratnakara by Pandit Shri Laxmi Prasad Pathaka, 
(Jubbulpore 1950). 

Horamakaranda of Gunakara (1496 A.D.). 

Laghujataka of Varahamihira (Bombay). 

Horasara of Prithuyasas (6th century), with Eng. translation 
by P. V. S. Sastri, B.A., and V.M. Ramkrishna Bhatt 
(Bangalore 1949). 

Muburtadeepika of Ramacharya (1600 A.D.), (Bombay). 

Jataka-chandrika of Shri Yajniknatha edited by Shri Himmat- 
ram M. Jani and Shri Manishankar K. Joshi (in Gujarati, 
Ahmedabad 1939). 


37-38 Devakeralam (Chandrakalanadi) by Achyuta, Part I — Vols. 


I (1952) and II (1956), edited by Shri T. S. Ranganatha 


(36) 


Josyar, Madras Government Oriental Series, Madras. 
39 Jatekasaradipa by Nrisimha Daivajna, edited by Shri P. P. 
Lakshminarayana Upadhyaya, Madras Government 
Oriental Series, Madras 1951. 
40 Sripatipaddbati (11th century), Eng. translation by P.V.S. 
Sastri, B.A., (Bangalore 1937). 


GLOSSARY 


Amsa (Varga)— Any division of a rasi. 

Antara (Bhukti)— The sub-periods in the main period (Dasa) 
of a planet. 

Apachaya Houses — The Ist, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th, 9th and 
12th houses from the rising sign. 

Apoklima— The 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th houses from the 
rising sign. Cadent houses. 

Ascendant — The zodiacal sign rising at the time of birth. 

Astamgata (Moudbya)— Planets obscured by the Sun within 
certain areas on either side, as the result of which the planets lose 
their power. These critical degree-areas are: the Moon 12° ; 
Mars 17° ; Mercury (direct) 14°, (retrograde) 12° ; Jupiter 11° ; 
Venus (direct) 10°, (retrograde) 8° and Saturn 15°. cf. “Combust” 
in western astrology. 

*  Ayanamsa— The arc of precession between the point of 
Vernal Equinox and the 1st point of Aries (Mesha) in the fixed 
zodiac. 

Ayana (Utiara)— The northerly course of the Sun from Capri- 
corn to Cancer in the tropical zodiac. 

Ayana (Dakshina)— The southerly course of the Sun from 
Cancer to Capricorn in the tropical zodiac. 

Ayus, Ayuspinda — The duration of life. 

Bhava — One of the twelve mundane houses. 

Bhavamadbya — Cusp or centre of the house. 

Bindu — The small circular mark used to indicate a benefic 
position in the Ashtakavarga. 

Chakra — The zodiac of 360°. 

Chakrardbabani — Reduction undergone by planets posited in 
the visible half of the horoscope, i.e., on the clockwise arc from 
the Ascendant to the Descendant. 

Chandralagna — The zodiacal sign occupied by the Moon at 
birth, ie., the Moon-sign. 

Chara rasi— A movable sign. 

Dasa — The division of a man's life which is under the influ- 
ence of a planet. 

Dasamabhava — The 10th house. 


(38) 


Ekadhipatya Shodbana — Reduction of points in the two 
houses ruled by the same planet. 

Gochara — The transit of planets through the zodiacal signs 
or houses of the horoscope. 

Grabaguna Yoga — The aggregate of the products of the 
planet-multipliers and the bévdus that remain in the bbaras occu- 
pied by the planets. 

Janma Nakshatra— The asterism occupied by the Moor at 
the birth of a person. 

Janma rast — See Chandralagna. 

Kaksh(y)a— One of the eight divisions of a bhava or rast 
in the Ashtakavarga system. 

Karaka — Significator. 

Kendra — The 1st, 4th 7th and 10th houses ; angular houses. 

Kundali — The horoscope. 

Laguna — The Ascendant or rising sign. 

Moolatrikona — Specific zodiacal areas assigned to plancts as 
particularly congenial. Thus the Moolatrikona of the Sun is Ico 
0°-20° ; that of the Moon is Taurus 4°—30°, that of Mars Arics 
0°-12° and so on. 

Nakshaira — One of the 27 asterisms. 

Neecha — The degree of the “fall” of a planet. 

Nisheka — Impregnation. : 

Panaphara — Succedent houses: the 2nd, Sth, 8th and 11th 
houses from the rising sign. 

Pitrusthana — The house representing the father, ie, the 
Oth bhava. 

Rasi (Sign)— One of the twelve divisions of the Nirayana 
(fixed) zodiac. 

Rasiguna Yoga — The aggregate of the products of the Rasi- 
multipliers and the bindus that remain in the bhavas. 

Santana — Offspring. 

Saptavargas — The seven modes of dividing the signs, viz., 
Rasi, Hora, Drekana, Saptamsa, Navamsa, Dwadasamsa and Trim- 
samsa. (“Rasi” is, strictly speaking, not a division but the complete 
unit to be divided). 

Shodhyapinda (Shuddbapinda)— The sum of the Rasipinda 
and Grahapinda. 

Sthira rasi— A fixed sign. 

Swakshetra — Sign ruled by a plarret. 


(39) 


Tithi — The lunar day as determined by the Moon's distance 
from the Sun. Age of the Moon. 

Trikona — Trinal houses (or signs). Triplicity. 

Trikona Shodhana— Reduction of the bindus in a set of 
trinal houses or signs. 

Ubbaya (Dwiswabhava) rasi — A common or mutable sign. 

Uccha — The degree of exaltation. 

Upachaya —The 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses from the 
rising sign. 

Vargottama (Navamsa)— Dignity imparted to a planet when 
placed in the rast and Navamsa of the same name. 

Vidya — Learning or knowledge. 


ERRATA 


Page Line Incorrect 
3 9 FA MA 
3 (passim) 19 longevity 
4, 6,8,10,12 Heading 
14, 16 
7 last line ( ea ) 
7 last line it 
14 15 Aspectal 
17 26 Vaidyanath 
22 15 qaqa 
27 28 receipients 
28 Left side margin Reccipients 
42 17 ect. 
49 (passim) 26 combust 
50 (passim) =. 21 apparels 
50 23 semen virile, 
52 Heading VI 
52 8 avocation 
54 (passim) 26,27 transitting 
57 13 Karaka 
62 15 —Fae 
64 1 collated 
73 27 or 
75 11 immediate 
75 17 nett bindus 
80 (passim) 2 transitted 
84 25 even 
85 9 cardial 
92 Heading VI 
94 Heading VIT 
95 17 to 
96 5 person, 
99 15 benefits 
103 16 Regardng 
105 7 -~q7- 
107 18 a beneficiary 


Correct 


FDIS 
duration of life 


ail: 


( Fa ). 

is 
Aspectual 
Vaidyanatha 
qifeag 
recipients 
Recipients 

etc. 
combustion 
apparel 
semen, 

IV 
vocation 
transiting 
relative 
Tags Il 
projected 
or for 
sudden 
bindus nett 
transited 
or even the 
cardinal 

VIII 

Vill 
on 

person 
benefit 
Regarding 
—qj- 
benefic 


(2) 


Page Line Incorrect Correct 
112 (passim) 16 transit over transit through 
115 (passim) 28, 35 issues children 
119 27 aaa ) ( TaAaTTaT ) 
120 (passim) 10 a natural one’s own 
123 2 there itself in the same 
house 
124 12 their respective his Ashtakavarga 
Ashtakavargas 
127 28 child giving child-giving 
132 13 Giccrice) ( aad ) 
133 21 Uttarashadha when Unttarashadha. When 
134 6 8ST: - 8a: 
134 17 tastelessness aversion to 
food 
135 7 is are 
143 32 co-habitting co-habiting 
144 14 associated or associated withor 
145 7 Sata SaUAT 
145 28 arqay aay 3 
148 18-19 happiness children 
149 10 aaa aaa 
151 6 af afé 
156 11 sharat- sharat- 
159 5 aaeiaeg ae aaeqhteg afar 
159 23 qatar qed 
159 24 Self-deposit safe 
159 26 Zanana zenana 
162 28 -Ue 
162 32 referred mentioned 
163 25 fea -fearat 
163 26 —leagal- —femeat- 
164 1 and 9 dividend quotient 
165 15 agar AAA 
168 4 cq yy 
168 4 —fista- _fasia- 
171 5 now explained now to be 
explained 
172 7 rast rasis 


176 12 


their own, a 


in their own or 


244 
249 
251 
254 
258 
259 
262 
264 


(passim) 


Heading 
29 
3 


16 
20 
13 


(3) 


Incorrect 


the same 
Tava: 
independant 
cow-house 
at 

referred 
Ru- 
arrived at 
arrived 
BATSTAT 
(rolling stock) 
—fafaary, 
at: 
aay 

ag- 

aaa 


of longevity 


Mth. 
(Gochara) 
interpretted 
virtuous (elite) 

persons 
disillusionment 
73 


_ oe 
live-stock 


~7A 

—etaia— 
dissention 
loss, 

qs 

ill-reputation 

Gata 

work 

way 

fezsaq 


loss 


Correct 


they 


qayarha 
independent 


cow-pen 
in 


mentioned 


aa- 


resulting 
resulting 
STATS 
Delete 
fafa 
am: 
—aara 
qTE- 
alread 
or duration of 
life 
Mcths. 
(Gochara)? 
interpreted 
the elite 


temptation 


maternal rela- 
tives 
-74 
~elary 
dissensions 
loss 


qe 


disrepute 


qaey 


advantages 
—wearla 
fez gd 


decrease 


(4) 


* 


Page Line Incorrect Correct 

264 last line after birth painful partu- 
sickness rition 

270 16 coveteous covetous 

271 14 Tay aan 

272 (passim) 2 favourite fond 

274 22 of through 

277 12 = ale 

277 25 enemies people 

277 26 over of 

280 31 endowment of blessed with 
children children 

281 9 competancy competency 

282 3 (beingness) (stamina) 

70 5 to 7 

For “ The Sun’s ...... (soft or 
rough)” 

read :— . 

The Sun-ruled things are appeal- 
ing to the eye on account of 
their shape, and those ruled by 
Saturn appeal to ‘the touch, 
being soft or rough. 

Appendices 
(5) 2 & a 
(5) 2 Spica 16 Spica 
(7) 1 About the Rasis About the Rasis 
and Planets and Planets 
(Dignities, 


Debilities, etc.) 


