AeHAy : 


ASHTAKAVARGA 


With Translation in English 
and Explanatory Notes 


By 
Chandulal Sakaralal Patel, B. A. 
and 
C. A. Subramania Aiyar, B. Sc. 


Preface to the Second Edition : 


This second edition herewith presented, is more or less reprint of the 
first edition. We have only added one more chapter, as XVII} one. It 
includes in a nut-shell. all our researches of the last forty years, published 
in various magazines by way of articles and explained in many workshops 
conducted by us on the subject. It is hoped, the students taking interest in 
the study of “Ashtakavarga" will welcome them. 


Weare heartily appreciative of interest shown and speed with which 
Shri Narinder Sagar. in bringing out. this second edition attractively 
before the learned readers. 


We wish to express our grateful thanks to (1) Shri Naresh M. Scthia 
of Baroda, who contacted the “Publishers" and arranged the publication 
and (2) Shn Hariprasad S. Bhatt of Mulund, (Bombay). for his unsolicited 
help in correcting the proofs and for other anciliary jobs. 


Date : 4th June 1996 CS. Patel 
CAS. Aivar 


FOREWORD 


"To every thing there is a season, and a time to every 
purpose under the heaven :" - So says Solomon the ancient sage, 
and the truth of these words of wisdom cannot be better compre- 
hended than through the science of astrology, for the aim of the 
science is to guide humanity by pointing out periods of prosperity 
and adversity in individual as well as national life by defining the 
various stages in the evolution of man. By the beacon light of the 
stars the science helps us in locating the time and place of any 
event and depicting also the nature of the event. Thus it plays an 
important part in the life of the human race, and naturally from 
times immemorial wise men of every country have been trying to 
-discover various methods for calculating the time factor underly- 
ing every "season" of human life and for foretelling the quality of _ 
the’ harvest of the season. , 

It is well-nigh impossible to say exactly when and where 
astrology had its origin. But we may safely assume that the birth 
of the scicnce was almost synchronous with the birth of the 
human race, for otherwise we cannot explain why we come 
across traces of ancient people lisping in the language of the stars 
in almost every nation that has some claim to high antiquity. As 
for India, it may be a moot point whether she rocked the cradle 
of astrology, but na one can deny the fact that she has contributed 
a very large amount of knowledge to promote the growth of the 
science. This great heritage of the past , or atleast a part of it, 
is being slowly re-discovered through the efforts of research 
scholars, and | am glad to say that onc such welcome attempt to 
recover an ancicnt treasure from the hands of all-devouring Time 
has been successfully made by my friends Shri C.S. Patel and 
Shri C.A.S. Aivar in compiling and publishing this treatise on the 
Ashtakavarge system.. 

The authors of the treatise have given us a full and fucid 
explanation of the principles and the modus operandi of the 
Ashtakavarga in the: light of the knowledge garnered from every 
possible source,with the result that what they are presenting us 
today is not merely the re-hash of some moth-eaten Sanskrit tome 


iv 


but a critical compendium of all available information on the 
subject. I am sure that no discerning student will fail to appreciate 
the labour and critical acumen that the authors have brought to 
bear on this work. 

Natal astrology consists of two distinct sections. The first 
section enables us to form a general idea of the sum-total of 
planetary influences scattered through the different houses of the 
horoscope, what the stars have in store for the native by way of 
success and failure,pleasure and pain,fame and notoriety. The 
second section mainly deals with the time factor governing the 
planetary and steller influences concealed in the birthchart, the 
Paka-kala (moment of maturity),as it is technically known, of the 
promise of the birthchart. ThePaka-kala is generally deduced 
from the periods and sub-periods (Dasas and Antardasas) of 
planets.There is an overwhelcoming numbcr of Dasa systems 
propounded in ancient works, but most of them have been 
consigned to oblivion. Of the three or four svstems that still hold 
the field, the Vimshottari system is the most popular. Next ‘comes 
the transit sytem which is equally popular, or even more so, 
among both Indian and European astrologers as a simple key to 
the timing of events. It is very often used quite independently , but 
- sometimes it is also applied in combination with the ruling Dasa 

or current directions. The more philosophic among Indian astrolo- 
gers make a subtle distinction between the function of the Dasa 
system and that of the transit system. The current Dasa and 
Antara, they say, show what we have to reap from the seeds of 
“our past Karma while the transits denote the’ Karma we are 
sowing for our next life. Be that as it may,there is not doubt 
whatsoever that transits are the most facile and indispensable 
‘part of the astrologer's armoury in India as well as abroad. 
Unfortunately the method of considering transits that is in 
vogue today is extremely puerile and shallow, to say the least! All 
that our.astrolgcr wants to know is the sign occupied by the Moon 
at birth. He does not care to inquire what Navamsa or Decanate, 
much less the exact degree, is occupied by the Moon. Nor does 
he care to consider what house is tenanted by the Moon or by the 


Vv 


’ transiting planet, for he is blissfully ignorant of the importance of 
the house positions of planets! But the acme of absurdity is 
perhaps reached when on the entry of any planet into a new sign 
he presages a change of fortune, for better or worse, for every 
Tom, Dick and Harry! These Moon-sign or moonshine forecasts, 
if given in writing, usually end up with the stock phrase 
"Shubham bhavatu", God bless you, -or in other words, God save 
the client! If the reader is inclined to think that I am drawing an 
unnecessarily gloomy picture of the present plight of Indian 
astrology, let him browse through the pages of some of our 
popular astrological magazines and he will be convinced of the 
truth of my remarks. But, then, the trouble is that if the reader 
is familiar only with the horoscopy of the benighted westerners, 
he is bound to get bewildered within the mystic maze that passes 
for the horoscope in our magazines! He will be Icft wondering 
whether the figure ts to be read from left to right or right to Icft 
or upside-down! 


It appears that some of our ancient astrologers were quite 
aware of the superficiality and absurdity of depending solely on 
the Moon-sign in judging the effects of transits. Thus. for 
instance, Gunakara who flourished some time about 1496 A.D. 
writes in his Haramakaranda- 

TARR WATTS TEM yaa wet grewrafrywy| . 

TH aces wo AaretanrayaATe: (191 | 

wa Rema: wert ART eros TAaTERha | 

aan dar ay wn: wer: Rea a a wera wala 1211 

aiseukrigasa wd: wepisa aera yaryThsy 

warts asi a fran sercatfera Bec aa 1 13 11 

The effects of transiting plancts that have been delincated 
by the ancient Acharvas on the basis of the Moon-sign would be 
experienced in different ways even by persons bom under the 
same Moon-sign or the same Nakshatra. and this differcnce 
arises owing to the difference in the Lagna (rising sign) and the 
distance of planets from the Lagna.(1)} 

The sign occupied by the Moon at birth is known as the 
Janma-rasi(birth sign). But every sign that is occupied by some 


vi 


planet or other is capable of producing certain effects, and the 
Lagna is also equally potent in this respect.(2) 

Thus the native responds to the influence of eight signs- 
seven pertaining to the planets and one to the Lagna. Every 
planetary influence, therefore, must be judged not only indepen- 

“dently, but also through the interaction of planets. This system of 
calculating and judging precisely the influence of planets is called 
the Ashtakavarge system.(3) 

These remarks of Gunakara ought to serve as an eye- 
opener to all astrologers of the present day who are sacrificing 
accuracy to simplicity and making a travesty of the real teaching 
of the ancients. Let them ask themselves whether the ancient 
teachers were just indulging in some childish fancy when they 
devised elaborate schemes of judging planetary strength or split 
every degree of the zodiac into its fractional parts, and let them 
contrast the ways of the ancients with the perfunctory manner in 
which they themselves deal with horoscopes. 

The Ashtakavarge system apears to have originated in the 
very remote past.Acharya Varahamihira (circa 500 A.D.) men- 
tions it rather casually, as if it had already become an integral 
part of the standard teaching. on astrology in his day, not 
requiring a very detailed exposition. It is quite likely, therefore, 
that the system originated some centuries before Varaha, perhaps 
a couple of centuries even before Christ. 

The sytem is, no doubt, rather intricate and laborious, and 
those shallow practitioners who feel that predictions ought to 
come trippingly to the tongue as soon as one knows theMoon-sign 
or the Moon's Nakshatra have not been able to appreciate its 
importance. Consequently it has fallen into disuse in recent vears, 
though at times some practitioners do add a series of bald 
Ashtakavarga tables, without a word of interpretation, in order to 
produce an awe-inspiring scroll and fleece the gullible client! Let 
us hope that the authors of the present volume would succeed in 
reviving and popularizing this half-forgotten system of the an- 
cients and eam the credit for setting at least one part of the house 
of astrology in order. 


vii 


The careful student will find that the Ashtakavarga 
system, as expounded in this volume, provides certain keys for 
judging the strength of houses and planets and for evaluating the 
potency of transits on the basis of eightfold division of the bhavas 
(houses) of the horoscope.The authors have indeed done a great 
service to the cause of astrology bv bringing together all available 
information on the subject in this omnibus volume. The example 

‘of ceaseless and painstaking research that they have thus set 
before the younger generation of scholars is certainly worth 
emulating. ; 

In conclusion, I sincerely wish that this valuable work 
should be accorded a warm welcome by all earnest students, 
Indian as well as foreign, and I pray that the Divine Power that 
inspired the authors to undertake.this project may grant them 
further opportunities to explore other promising fields 
of astrological research. 


YESHWANT K. PRADHAN 


Sth February, 1957. 


AUTHORS' NOTE 


The Ashtakavarga is recognized as an outstanding system 
of prediction among the several systems advocated in the 
standard works on astorlogy. It has been commended as the best 
and the most indispensable key, so that all predictions have to be 
made only after a consideration of the Ashtakavarga. But 
the treatment of the svstem- its methods of application and 
interpretation- found in the exisitng works is not exhaustive and 
thorough enough for students to understand, which is a serious 
deficiency in the outfit of the modern. astrologer. The present 
work consisting of about 950 verses and treating exclusively of 
the Ashtakavarga and its practical application is an attempt to 
fulfil this long-felt desideratum, The work contains in one volume 
materials collected mainly from available standard works on 
astrology, the last two chapters being based on manuscripts 
hitherto unpublished. The plan of treatment is,we hope, quite 
suitable from the student's point of view: The original Sanskrit 
verses come first; then follows their translation in English with 
copious explanatory notes and comments, and example horoscope 
has been worked out in detail so as to give a clear idea of the 
application of the system. The idea of computing Ashtakavarga 
on the basis of Bhavakundali, in preference to the usual 
Janmakundahi, first suggested by Shri Uttamram Mavaram Thakar 
in his Gujarati work Jyotish Vijnan Ane Laghu Parasari, has ben 
adopted for reasons given in thePrologue and the text. The book 
is also furnished with appendices containing the minimum details 
necessary for the Ashtakavarga calculations (except, however, 
the calculation of the Shadvarga strength which is beyond the 
scope of this book). A noteworthy addition is the 
Sarvachanchachakra (p.64) which will prove useful in connection 
with Chaps.XVI and XVII, and theAshtakavarga Ayurdaya cal- 
culations in Chap.XV. 

We wish to express our grateful thanks to Shri Yeshwant 
K. Pradhan. Jyotishacharya, for the encouragement and 
co-operation that he has given us while this work was in progress, 
as also for writing the Foreword: to Shri Amritlal L Shah. 


Ix 


Hon.Secretary, Bombay Astrological society, for his unstinted 
help; to Prof. N.A. Gore, M.A., Dip. Lib. (Bom.), Librarian, 
Asiatic Society of Bombay, for procuring transcripts of manu- 
script copies of the Jatakatilaka and the Brihatyavanajataka and 
correcting the Sanskrit text in proof form ; to Shri K.S. 
Sivaramkrishna Iyer, B.A., for his guidance and interpretation of 
the difficult passages in the text ; and to Shri Pranjivan Amin and 
Shri Anant Pandya, M.A., for their unsolicited help in correcting 
the proofs. 

We also wish to acknowledge our indebtedness to the 
Asiatic Society of Bombay, for permission to publish the chapter 
on Ashtakavarga from the manuscript of the Jatakatilaka of 
Kamalakar, to the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Poona, 
and the Oriental Institute, Baroda, for supplying the photostat 
copies of the chapter on Ashtakavarga from the manuscript of the 
Brihatyavanajataka of Meenaraja and permitting its use; to the 
Janmabhumi Panchanga Karyalaya and the Bombay Astrological 
Society for helping us in many ways ; and to numerous friends 
and well-wishers who prefer to remain anonymous, for their 
constant support and co-operation. 


Any suggestions or comments regarding necessary addi- 
tions or improvements to be made in this work shall be gladly 
received and considered for the next edition. We shall consider 
our labour amply rewarded if this work proves helpful in enabling 
students to make predictions with greater confidence and greater 
success than at present and brightening the name of the much- 
maligned science of astrology. 


C.S. PATEL. 
C.A.S. ATYAR 
Bombay, February,5, 1957 


PROLOGUE 

Ever since the dawn of creation man has been prayerfully 
invoking the stars in their courses to lift the veil of the inscrutable 
Future.The Egyptians, Chaldeans, Chinese, Greeks, Hindus had 
all been endeavouring,with more or less success, to predict the 
destiny of men and nations by the position of planets and fixed 
_ Stars, and in doing so they had also been noting the motions of the 
planets and building up the edifice of astronomy brick by brick. 
Prediction of events by means of astrology may be classified 
under the folowing six divisions :- 

* 1, Mundane - Dealing with celestial phenomena like 
eclipses, planetary conjunctions, new-moons, etc. their time of 
occurrence, and their effects on nations, countries, etc. 

2. Annual Forecast - Used for foretelling the weather, 
agricultural outlook and other matters from the nature of the 
planets presiding over each of them in the annual horoscope cast 
for the new (Equinoctial) Year. 

3. Genethliacal or Natal Astrology - Very interesting and 
complicated. It foretells the character, destiny and other matters 
about a person from the rising sign (Ascendant) and the planetary 
configurations, aspects, etc., at the time of birth. 

4. Transit system (Gochara) - This describes the effects 
produced on individuals by the transit of planets and the aspects 
formed with reference to their radical positions. This can deal 
with a short period only. ; 

5. Horary system - Deals with the horoscope prepared at 
the time some question is put to the astrologer and predictions 
based on that. These are for the immediate future. 

_ 6. Electional system - Deals with the selection of right time 
for any business or function. The conditions and positions of the 
celestial bodies at a selected moment have a significant influence 
on a person's activity. the basic principle of this system is that 
according to the good or bad influence due to their positions in the 
heavens and with reference to the Ascendant at the time of 
commencing any undertaking, the celestial bodies cause success 
or failure, joy or sorrow, profit or loss, etc. 

The first five systems tell us what is in store for us in the 


xi 
light of the Ascendant and planetary positions at a given moment. 
But the Electional system tells us what the planetary positions and 
aspects should be to start a good function in order to ensure - 
success, on the assumption that we have the freedom to choose 
the most auspicious time.* 
NATAL ASTROLOGY 

For accurate and correct predictions the horoscope that we 
vast has to be correct. There are various methods of rectification 
of the horoscope. The positions of the plancts in the heavens and 
their insertion in the proper houses (Bhavas) come next to that. 

_ In the Indian system of calculating the planetary positions, 
the system originally in use was known as the Parahita (tradition- 
al) system. Later on it was modified from the observed discrep- 
ancies and brought into line with theDrig (observation) system. 
But ‘subsequent to the discovery of the telescope and the use of 
advanced methods of mathematical calculation, it was found that 
the Drig system also was not very accurate. Now-a-days many 
almanacs and ephemerides are compiled on the basis of the 
elements of the Nautical Aimanac, such as Raphael's Ephemeris 
and modern Indian Panchangas which claim to give correct 
positions of planets. 

There are two systems of locating the planets, namely, the 
Savana (tropical) and the Nirayana (sidereal) system. In the 
Sayana (cum precession) system the Ist point of Aries from 
which all planetary positions are given is located at the Vernal 
Equinox, the point at which the Sun crosses the Equator in his 
northerly course. On account of the precession of the Equinox this 
event happens once in every year of 365.2422 days which is less 
than the sidereal vear of 365.2564 days. The difference in the two 
types of the year is due to the fact that the Equinox recedes in a 
westerly direction by 50" of arc annually. This results in an 
increase in the longitudes of the fixed stars. 

In the Indian svstem the Ist point of Aries is reckoned fo 
the fixed star Revati which one school of astronomers identifies 
with Zeta Piscium, and all positions are measured from this. Thus 
there are two methods of reckoning the longitudes of planets. The 
Savana or the tropical system based on the moving zodiac and the 
Nirayana or the sidereal system based on the fixed zodiac. 


At some date in the beginning of the Christian Era the 


*_....* Adapted from the Kalaprakasika by N. P. Subramanya Iyer. 


xii 

initial points of the two zodiacs were identical. The cxact vear 
when this happened cannot be definitely ascertained as the deter- 
minant star Revati has disappeared. Various dates have been 
assigned to this coincidence of the two zodiacs by different 
astronomers with the result that there is no agreement in regard 
to the amount of Precession (Avanamsa). The rate of annual 
precession also is taken as 50",52" or 60". The precession 
adopted by some leading astronomers and Panchangas in India 
is based on the assumption that the longitude of the star Chitra 
(Alpha Virginis or Spica) is 180° of the fixed zodiac ; hence the 
value of precession for 1956 January Ist is 23° 13'38" and the 
annual precession 50".26. 

It is evident that the position of a planet is the same in the 
two systems, the only difference being that in the movable zodiac 
it is with reference to the Equinoctial point, and in the fixed 
zodiac with reference to some fixed star.By deducting the 
Ayanamsa from the Sayana positions the Nirayana positions are 
obtained and vice versa. 

But, for precision even in the Indian system the calculation 
of the Ascendant and the 10th house is first carried out by the 
Savana reckoning and the Avanamsa is deducted from the result 
afterwards. The Sayana mode of reckoning has also to be used to 
find the declinations of the planets and the duration of the day and 


night. 
METHOD OF HOUSE (BHAVA) DIVISION 

The Ascendant and the M.C. (10th house cusp) and other 
house cusps are calculated by one of the usual methods. In the 
Indian system the duration of the day has to be taken into account 
to calculate the 10th house cusp. The cusps of the remaining 
honses are then determined by one of the following methods:- 

(a) Method of Placidus or the Semi - arc System : "The 
principle of this system is the trisection oif the semi-arc of each 
degree of the ecliptic. By successively adding1/3 S.A. (diurnal) of 
any degree to the Sidereal Time of its ascension, said degree is 
found upon cusp of the 12th, 11th and 10th house, respectively; 
similarly, by adding 1/3 S.A. (nocturnal) to the Sidereal Time of 
its descension, said degree is found upon cusp of the 6th, 5th and 
4th house". 

(b) Method of Companus : "The principle of this system is 
the trisection of a quadrant of the Prime Vertical, (which is a 


Xi 
great circle passing through the zenith point, and at right angles 
to the meridian), by great circles mutually intersecting at the north 
and south points of the horizon ; the cusps of the houses being the 
degrees of the Ecliptic cut by these circles”. 


(c) Rational Method ascribed to Regiomontanus': "The 
principle of this system is the trisection of a quadrant of the 
Equator, comprised between the horizon and meridian, by great 
circles mutually intersecting at the north and south points of the 
horizon ; the cusps of the houses being the degrees of the Ecliptic 
cut by these circles”. 

(d) Method of Porphyry : "The principle of this system is 
the trisection of the arc of the Ecliptic intercepted between: the 
horizon and meridian. The arc of the zodiac betwen the Ascendant 
and the 10th house is divided into three equal parts, giving thus 
the cusps of XI and XII houses. Similarly trisection of the arc 
between the Ascendant and the 4th house gives the cusps of IT and 
Ill houses". 

_ This method of House division is generally followed in the 
Indian system. Half the sum of any two adjacent cusps is taken 
as the border line (Sandhi) of the two houses (bhavas), Thus each 
house has a definite range and the planets are posited in properly 
delimited bhavas, unless, of course, some of them choose to sit on 
the fence! The planet's influence on the bhava occupied is 
_ maximum when it is at the cusp or near it, and it is least when 
the planet is on the border line (Sandhi). 

JUDEMENT OF THE HOROSCOPE. 

Western system : In this system the character and destiny 
of the native are delineated from the Ascendant and the position 
of planets in the angles (Kendras) and other houses and the 
mutual aspects of the planets, as also their aspects to the 
Ascendant and the 10th cusp. The timing of events is effected by 
means of directions in the Progressed horoscope. 

(1) The Progressed Horoscope : (a) PrimaryDirections : the 
rotation of the earth on its axis from west to east brings a new 
degree of the ecliptic to the Mid-heaven every 4 minutes. The 
passing of each degree across the M.C. is supposed to represent 


1. See Casting the Horoscope by Alan Leo, pp. 110, 111. 


xiv 
one year in man's life. Thus the directions of a man who lives for 
90 years are completed within 6 houses after birth. The orbital 
movement of the planets during this time is negligible. The 
planets move from house to house and form certain directions to 
their radical positions and to other planets. These directional 
changes can be calculated by considering the planets fixed, and 
advancing the M.C. 1° every year and taking the Ascendant 
_ according to the latitude of the place. Observe the new aspects 
which these form with the radical planets as also the changing 
mutual aspects of planets. These Primary Directions are said to 
‘indicate the events in a man's life which are beyond his control, 
the inescapable destiny that smiles or frowns on him. 

(b) Secondary Directions .: Apart from the directional _ 
changes effected by the earth's rotation the planets themselves 

Change as they revolve in their own orbits. Taking a day to 

“represent one year of life, the span of 90 years is completed by 
the movement of the planets in about 3 months. The horoscope 
cast for the same time as that of birth, on the day which 
represents the year, is the basis of judgement in the secondary 
system. The aspects formed by the progressed planets to the 
radical ones and the aspects to radical angles are judged, taking 
one planet after another. The solar directions thus formed are the 
most important. Then come the M.C.,the Ascendant and the 
directions of other planets to those in the radical and progressed 
horoscopes. The Lunar directions are taken next. Since the Moon 
traverses about 13° ma day many directions are formed in the 
course of the year. Therefore, by taking 1/12 of the actual diurnal 
motion of the Moon the exact month in which a certain aspect is 
formed can be determined. 

Another simple method of Directing is the Radix system 
in which the average daily motion of the Sun(59' 8") is taken as 
the increment for every year,for the Sun, Moon and every planet 
andM.C. The Ascendant corresponding to the directional M.C. is 
determined fiom the Table of Houses for the latitude of the 
birthplace. The aspects formed by the progressed planets with the 
radical ones are then studied in order to judge the trend of the 
coming year 


XV 


Indian system : All matters relating to a person's life, its 
duration, environment, etc., are judged from the positions of the 
planets, Yogas and Dasas. The different kinds of Yogas (combi- 
nation or set-up of planetary positions) with reference to the 
Ascendant or otherwise are linked up with the events in the life 
of the native by considering the following factors :- 

1. The peculiar sign position of a planet in the heavens 
that adds to its strength, such as exaltation, occupancy of its own 
house, Vargottama, etc. This is independent of bhavas or the 
nature of the planet. 

2. The bhavas (house) positions such as position in Kendras 
(angles). Konas (trinal houses), etc. This is independent of the 
exaltations of planets. 

3. Nature of the planet that forms the Yoga. This is 
independent of its sign position and bhava position. 

4. Dignity or lack of it imparted to houses by the planets 
occupying them,e.g., Ascendant and the 8th house occupied by 
benefics or their own lords or by planets in exaltation, ete. 

5. Bhava and Planets,e.g.. Adhi Yoga formed when there 
are planets in-the 6th, 7th and 8th bhavas from the Ascendant or 
Moon,and the nature of the plancts forming this Yoga. 

6. Combination of bhava, sign position and the planets. In 
this the sign position Exaltation, etc. bhava position (Kendra, 
Kona, etc.) and the intrinsic nature of the planet that forms it have 
to be considered for Yogas likc Ruchaka (by Mars), Bhadra 
(Mercury), etc.. 


The span of life due to certain Yogas is a definite number 
of vears. 

In addition to these, the Dasa system also is considered for 
predicting the events in one's life. According to Parasara there are 
32 different methods for ascertaining the duration of life and 
prediction of events, which can be classified as follows: 

1, Naisargikayurdaya, 2. Pindayurdaya, 3. Rasmijayurdaya, 
4, Amsakavurdava, 5. Chakrayurdava, 6. Nakshatravurdaya, 7 
Ashtakavargayurdaya. 


xvi 

In the first three systems a certain number of years is 
allotted to each planet holding an exaltation position and half the 
values to those that are debilitated. Proportional values are 
derived when the planets are in intermediate positions. The years 
obtained are subject to 4 kinds of reductions, viz., Chakrardha- 
hani (due to the hemisphere occupied by the planet), Satrukshetra- 
hani (due to position in an inimical house), Astamgata-hani (due 
to the planct's proximity to the Sun) and Krurodaya-hani (due to 
the presence of a malefic in the Lagna). The Ayus derived from 
the Ascendant is added to this. 

In the Amsakayurdaya the number of years contributed by 
each planet and the Lagna is equal to the number of Navamsas 
elapsed from Mesha, expunging cycles of 12 signs whenever the 
Navamsa number exceeds 12. These are further modified, in 
respect of planets in exaltation, own house, etc. 


The Chakrayurdaya based on the Kalachakra Dasa system 
is found by two methods : (1) The Ayus (length of life) is the sum 
of the periods contributed by the planets in proportion to the 
untraversed portions in the Nakshtra quarter (i.c.,. Navamsa) 
occupied by them, (2) The 27 Nakshatras are classified into 
Savya (clockwise) and Apasavya (anti-clockwise) cycles: Each 
quarter (pada) of the Nakshatra is allotted a fixed number of 
years. The Moon's Navamsa determines the particular Dasa 
years. The cycle starts from the Navamsa rasi. Each rasi's 
contribution is equal to the years allotted to the planet ruling the 
rasi. The proportional part is calculated for the untraversed 
portion in the Navamsa occupied by the Moon and the periods of 
rasis carried on from that point. 

In the Ashtottari system the maximum life period is sup- 
posed to the 108 vears. The 28 Nakshatras (including Abhijit) are 
divided into 8 groups and allotted to the 8 planets inclusive of 
Rahu. The proportional part remaining in a planet's Dasa is 
calculated from the untraversed portion of the Nakshatra occu- 
pied by. the Moon in that group. The remaining Dasas follow in 
a fixed order. 


In the Vimshottari system the maximum life is taken to be 


xvii 


120 years. The 27 Nakshatras are divided into nine groups. The 
three Nakshatras of every group are in trine to one another. Each 
group is ruled by a planet which is allotted a fixed period. Rahu 
and Ketu are taken as planets in this Dasa system. The. propor- 
tional part corresponding to the untraversed portion in -the 
Nakshatra occupied by the Moon is the balance of the Dasa 
period of the planet ruling the Nakshatra. The remaining Dasas 
follow in a fixed order. ; 


In the Yogini Dasa system the span for one cycle is 36 
years contributed by the 8 Yoginis, the Ist one givirig I year, the 
2nd; 2 years, and so on, The number of the Janmanakshatra of the 
native counted from Aswini plus 3 is divided by 8. The remainder 
shows the ordinal number of the initial Dasa. The fractional 
portion is calculated as in other Dasas. 


The Ashtakavarga System of Dasas : In this method the © 
Shodhapindas (vide Chap. III and pages 45-47) of the planets are 
multiplied by 7 and the product divided by 27. The quotient is 
Nakshatra years. These are subject to Mandala corrections and 
reduction due to (a) planetary conjunctions and (b) due to the 
positions in the visible half of the birthchart. This has been fully 
worked out (Vide Chap. XV). In this system the periods contrib- 
uted by the plantes are variable according to the Shodhyapinda. 
The Antaras, their order and their periods also differ in every 
horoscope. 


The Jaimini system differs in many respects from those 
given in standard works. It involves the idea of different kinds of 
Langa. The planet which has advanced to the farthest point in the 
rasi occupied by him becomes the Atmakaraka (significator of the 
soul) and is the most important planet in the horoscope, and the 
rasi holding him is regarded as the strongest. 


Jaimini lays special emphasis on the strength of the rasi, 
which is derived by the position of one or more planets in it. The 
strength of a planet depends on the Amsabala (i.e., degrees in the 
rast) and Moolatrikona bala (i.e., position in exaltation, 
Moolatrikona, etc.). The aspects in this system are determined as 
follows :- 


xvii 
(a) A Chara (cardinal) rasi aspects all the Sthira (fixed) 
rasis and the planets in them except the one adjacent to it. 
(b) A Sthira rasi aspects all the Charas (and the planets in 
thém) except the one adjacent to it. 


(c) An Ubhaya (mutable)-rasi aspects all the other Ubhaya 
rasis (and the planets in them). 


These aspect influences, good or bad, are affected by the 
presence of planets in certain places from the aspecting lord: or 
rasi. These affecting agencies are known as Argalas. 


The Dasas in the Jaimini system invariably refer to rasis. 
Various kinds of Dasas are given. The choice of a particular Dasa 
depends on circumstances. But the Chara Dasa and Trikona Dasa 
can be applied to all. Important events could be timed by 
Navamsa ‘Dasa, and/or Chara Dasa. Rasis are divided into two 
groups for finding the order of the succession of Dasa and 
counting Dasa years. They are : (a) Vishamapada (two odd 
quadrants consisting of (a) Mesha, Vrishabha, Mithuna and (2) 
Tula, Vrischika and Dhanus) the order of Dasa for these being 
Savya (clockwise) ; and (b) Samapada (two even quadrants 
consisting of (1) Kataka, Simha and Kanya and (2) Makara, 
Kumbha and Meena) the order of Dasa for these being Apasavya 
(anti-clockwise). When the 9th house from the Lagna falls in a 
Savya group the order of Dasa succession is direct, the first Dasa 
starting from the Lagna rasi the 2nd Dasa starting from the rasi 
next to the Lagna and so on, and in an Apasavya group the order 
is anti-clockwise, i.e., Lagna, 12th house, etc. 


The Dasa period is variable according to the situation of 
the lord of the Dasa with reference to his rasi and is equal to (n 
- 1) years, where n represents the distance in rasis between the 
rasi and its lord taken clockwise or anti-clockwise according as 
the rasi belongs to the Savya or Apasavya group. These are 
modified according to the benefic or malefic disposition of the 
lords. The Antaras in a main rasi Dasa follow the same principles 
as for the Dasa. 


Finally, there is the method of forecasting the events of the 


xix 
year from the annual horoscope. Here a horoscope is cast for the 
time when the Sun retums exactly to the same longitude as he 
occupied at birth.' The other planetary positions and aspects and 
the Dasa periods for the year are calculated according to the 
prescribed rules and probable events of the year are predicted in 
conjunction with the usual Dasa period effects. 

The Nadi Jyotisha is a unique system of astrology. The 
books on this system contain ready-made horoscopes giving opt 
the whole life-reading with important events in the life of the 
native as well as his parents, wife, etc., and also information 
about the previous and future births, and other matters. 


Each rasi is divided into 150 amsas and each amsa has a 
Purva (former) bhaga and Uttara (latter) bhaga. The Purva and 
Uttara bhagas of the same amsa produce an entirely different type 
of life incidents. The selection of the appropriate Nadi for a 
person depends on some such factor as (a) certain lines on his 
palm (b) the length of his shadow (c) the name or an important 
event in the life, etc., and this clue to the selection is being kept 
as a secret by the astrologers in possession of the Nadis. 

The standard works on astrology have dealt with the 
determination of the duration of life, events, etc., by various 
methods such as, the special Yugas, the different kinds of Dasas 
with the Antaras, etc. On the basis of the Dasas the good and bad 
effects that the likely to be produced-have also been explained as 
ranging from Sampurna (complete) for planets in exaltation to 
Rikta (nil) for planets in debilitation, in inimical houses, etc. The 
type of Dasa that applies to a particular horoscope depends on the 
Shadvarga strength of the planets or on the presence of special 
Yogas. But, nowadays, most of the astrologers ignore these subtle 
distinctions and rely exclusively on the Udu (Nakshatra) Dasa 
systems. The principal Udu Dasa systems are : the Vimshottari 
prevalent in South India and in the Uttar Pradesh and Bengal, and 
the Ashtottari common in Gujarat, Saurashtra, Maharashtra, 
Bengal, etc., the Yogini in Northern India and the Kalachakra 
. Dasa which is rarely used. All these Dasas depend on the position 


1 According to the Tajik system. 


xX 


of the Moon at the time of birth and each has different Dasa lords 
and periods. The consensus of opinion is that the prediction of 
events based on the Vimshottari Dasa system is in better agree- 
ment with the actual events in life. To supplement this, the effects 
arising frm the transit of planets (Gochara) thorough the various 
rasis are delineated. In spite of all these, the nature of the event 
and the time of its occurrence, predicted with the help of the Dasa 
and its Antaras are very often found to be in disagreement with 
and sometimes even contradictory to what are predicted from the 
transits. Further the question whether a given horoscope would 
respond to the Dasa effects or to transit effect, or if both operate 
under certain conditions, what these conditions are, has proved 
very difficult to solve in the light of the existing methods. Of 
course, the authors have sought to explain away these knotty 
points by menas of the Vedha positions, but even these do not 
satisfactorily solve the problem. Evidently the sages were aware 
of these difficulties and have, therefore, propounded the 
Ashtakavarga system to enable us to eliminate these apparent 
anomalies and arrive at accurate results. 


They have enumerated certain places as auspicious and 
others as inauspicious as reckoned from the houses occupied by 
the planets and from the Lagna. The marking (usually by bindus) 

. of these auspicious places in a person's horoscope with reference 
to the positions of the planets and the Lagna at birth constitutes 
the Ashakavarga (so named because of the eight positions) of that 
horoscope. The method of working usually adopted for preparing 
Ashtakavarga tables is to reckon the auspicious positions from 
the rising sign and the signs occupied by the planets. Further, 
every rasi (sign) is divided into 8 equal parts called Kakshyas and 
all the rasis have the same order of the rulers of Kakshyas and 
the rulers govern the same fixed degree areas. There are some 
drawbacks in this signwise method. The Bhinnashtakavarga fig- 
ures of the planets and the Samudayashtakavarga total in each 
rasi will be thc same for all persons born with a particular rasi 
as the Lagna on any day, irrespective of the degree rising. the 
transit effects will thus be the same and will be experienced 


Xxi 


simuitaneously by all of them, on occount of the fixed positions 
of the Kakshvas. 


But it has been found from experience that the events and 
transit effects are different even for persons having the same sign 
but a different degree of it on the Ascendant. The case of twins 
may be cited as a proof of this statement. Again, persons may be 
born with the same rising degree (Lagna), but if the births are in 
different latitudes the M. C. and the other house-cusps would 
differ, and consequently the orientation of the planets would also 
differ. It may also be pointed out that whereas text-books on 
astrology carry on the sub-divisions of a rasi into Hora, Drekana 
and other Vargas right upto Shashtyamsa (60th part), the division 
into 8 parts (Kakshvas) is mentioned only in connection with the 
Ashtakavarga system.' If this Kakshya division of rasi is on a 
permanent basis, as it is supposed to be, it is conspicious by its 
absence in the Samjna Adhyaya, (the chapter on terminology) in 
every text-book.) } 

For certain purposes the bindus in a bhava have to the 
taken for Ashtakavarga calculations. When a bhava extends into 
two rasis and the Ashtakavarga is prepared on the basis of the 
rasis treated as bhavas, the question would be from which of the 
two rasis involved should we take the bindus for the particular 
bhava. Because of these defects of the signwise method the 
preparation of Ashtakavarga fromt he bhava positions of the 
planets appears to be a better method, for in that case the same 
planetary positions in the zodiac (on any day) will be found in 
different bhava positions in horoscopes having different degrees 
of the same rasi as Ascendant, or even for the same degree of 
Ascendant in different latitudes. Owing to this change of bhava 
positions of planets, the Bhinnashtakavarga figures and the 
Samudayashtakavarga total in each bhava for each horoscope 
will be different. This bhava method of preparing the Ashtakavarga 
does not tamper with or alter in anyway the interpretation of the 
verses describing the method of marking the auspicious places, 


1, Division of rasi into eight parts and 1! parts is found 
‘also in the Tajik system 


Xxil 
for Bha or Bhavana is used as a synonym for rasi as well as 
bhava, Moreover, the division into Kakshyas may then be carried 
out so as to include even the signs intercepted in any bhava, The 
starting point of a Kakshya or the Kakshya lordship for a 
particular sign of the zodiac need not be the same in all horo- 
scopes. Further, the rasi multipliers may be taken as applicable to 
the bhavas. The multiplier for the rasi in which the Ascendant 
falls is taken as that of the Ist bhava and the remaining ones for 
the succeding dbhavas taken in order. This can account for the 
difference in the timing ‘and nature of events experienced by 
persons born with the same rising sign. 
The interpretations through the Ashtakavarga method can 
be broadly classified as (1) the magnitude or importance of a 
predicted event, (2) the nature, quality, kind, etc. of the event and 
(3) the time of the event. They are best judged by means of (a) 
the Bhinnashtakavarga strength of the planets (b) the 
Prastarashtakavarga for determining the time of occurrence and 
the nature and type of the event and (c) the Samudayashtakavarga 
for finding out the important phases in one's life denoted by 
outstanding events, fortunate or otherwise. Again, the Ashtakavarga 
may be advantageously utilised for finding out’ the best vear, 
month, day and Lagna (rising sign) for the commencement of any 
kind of function in order to ensure success and prosperity. 
After preparing the several Bhinnashtakavargas and the 
Samudaya total ‘in each bhava, the good and bad effects arising 
from the position of planets at birth have to be judged. Planers 
associated with 1 to 3 bindus (benefic points) in their respective 
Ashtakavargas in the bhavas occupied by them at birth generally 
cause diseases, sorrow, agony and privations even when they are 
in exaltation, their own houses, etc., and the adverse effects are 
intensified when the planets are in dibility, inimical houses, etc.; 
with 4 bindus the effects are of a mixed nature, partly good and 
partly evil. Planets associated with 5 or more bindus are auspi- 
cious and bestow all kinds of prosperity, the extent of which 
increases with the number of bindus. If, in addition to this, thev 
occupy Upachaya houses (3rd, 6th, 10th and ]Jth), or own or 
exaltation houses and are strong according to Shadvargabala, the 


XXili 

good effects ar still further enhanced. Even those planets that are 
in debility or occupy mimical houses or 6th, 8th or 12th bhava 
prove auspicious, if they are associated with 5 or more bindus — 
(vide Ch. I'V). This is the reason why the results predicted simply 
from the strength, position, etc., of the planets, without due 
consideration of the Ashtakavarga strength do not come up to 

expectation. F 
The Dasas of the different planets also are to be the judged 
from this Ashtakavarga strength. the Dasa of a planet is auspi- 
cious if the planet is associated with 5 or more bindus (in his 
Ashtakavarga) in the bhava occupied by him. The effect reaches 
the maximum when the number of bindus is 8; when the number 
is less than 4 the Dasa proves inauspicious and with 4 bindus it 
gives mixed results. Rahu and Ketu are said to be similar to 
Saturn and Mars respectively in their effects. As they are not 
included in the Ashtakavarga consideration, their Dasa effects 
may be judged from the Ashtakavargas of Saturn (for Rahu) and 
Mars (for Kctu), but taking Rahu and the house occupied by him 
in lieu of Saturn and Ketu and the house occupied by him in lieu 
of Mars respectively : Or they may be judged from the 
Ashtakavarga of Rahu given by Yavanacharva. This point can be 
settled only from observation. The Antaras (sub-periods) of the 
planets in any main Dasa prove auspicious, if both the houses 
owned by the Antara lord contain more than five bindus in the 
Ashtakavarga of the main Dasa lord and prove inauspicious if 
these houses contain less than four bindus (except in the case of 
the Sun and Moon where only one house has to be taken). The 
Ashtakavarga Dasa, though highly spoken of by ancient teachers 
of astrology (vide Chap. XV), is not availed of in practice now- 
a-days. 
. Important events are, as a rule, predicted according to the 
positions of the planets in rasis and bhavas at birth. But the 
Ashtakavarga gives a new method of prediction of events, since 
we are asked to consider the positions (at birth) of plancts in 
different Kakshyas. They are good or bad according to the 
presence of a bindu or a rekha in that Kakshya. The magnitude 


XXIV 
of the events will depend on the number of bindus or rekhas in 
the bhava oecupied by the different planets (vide Chap. XVII). 

After finding out the proportion of the good and bad 
planetary influences from the individual Ashtakavargas of the 
planets, one has to modify that by a consideration of the 
Samudayashtakavarga total in the bhava. Since the Samudaya 
total in any bhava is the aggregate of the bindus of all the 
indicators it gives a difinite idea of the strength of that bhava with 
respect to all the planets. Any planet in a bhava having more than 
28 bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga invariably produces good 
results, the magnitude inereasing with the number of bindus : 
even a planet associated with few bindus in his Ashtakavarga 
proves auspicious to a limited extent, and a planet strong by 
assoeiation with many bindus in his Ashtakavarga produces the 
best possible results. 

The type, quality, nature, etc., of the events arising from a 
planet's transit through a bhava have to be determined from the 
Shadvarga strength, the spceial Yogas, the aspects to the transit- 
ing planet, the lord of the Kakshya transited, the bhavas, etc., in 
coordination with the Ashtakavarga strength also. 

The rasis are classified as (a) Karma (productive of aetion) 
represented by earnings through the voeation of the native; (b) 
Bhoga (enjoyment) represented by the enjoyment of a variety of 
food and drinks, music, danee, cosmetics, company of women 
etc., and (c) Vinasakah (destructive or afflicting) represented by 
harsh words, eastigation, threats and similar actions wounding 
the mind or body. The type of articles used for these are 
classified as Dhatu, Moola and Jiva. Dhatu (element) class 
includes minerals, bones, mineral oils and their various deriva- 
tives. Moola (vegetable) class includes grass, erecpers, 
vines,bushes, herbs and trees and their products like seeds, 
flowers, wood, etc. Jiva (animal) elass includes all kinds of living 
beings originating from mammals, eggs and their various orders , 
and species. 


The rasis and the Drekanas are designated as Karma, 
Bhoga and Nasa, aceording to their Chara, Sthira and Ubhava 


XXV 


nature. Of thc three Navamsas of each Drekana, the Chara 
represents Dhatu, the Sthira represents Moola and the Ubhaya 
stands for Jiva class. Each of these Navamasas produces nine 
types of results on account of its being occupied or aspected by 
the nine planets. Thus one rasi of the zodiac can produce 8] 
different types of results. The identificatrion and specification of 
these are to be made (1) from the Panchabhutatatva condition 
(cognised by the sensory organs and represented by the planets) 
existing at the particular time owing to some planet's or Kakshya- 
lard's presence in or aspect to a-Kakshya. . 
The nature and name of an article in question can be 
identified by means of the letters of the alphabet appropriate to 
the rasis and planets. Their classification as good, medium or 
coarse can be made from the exaltation, own house,and other 
positions of the planets. For example if the Sun occupies a 
Karma-Dhatu (Chara Drekana-Chara Navamsa) place, he be- 
stows articles of the type ranging from gold to ore made of clay 
according to the position in exaltation, own house, etc. But this 
bestowal happens only when in the Kakshya which falls in this 
section of the zodiac contains a bindre in his Ashtakarga and not 
otherswise. If the Kakshya contains a rekha(not marked 
generally),the loss of the enumerated articles takes place. Suppose 
Saturn is in a Bhoga-Jiva (Sthira Drekana- Ubhaya Navamsa) 
place and Jupiter occupies a Nasa-Moola (UbhayaDrekana-Sthira 
Navamsa) place and that the Kakshya occupied by Jupiter con- 
tains bindu contributed by Satum. If Satum is stronger than 
Jupiter, enjoyment of happiness from wife and other relations is 
the result. If Saturn is the weaker one,there is gain from sale of 
grass,wood, etc.If Jupiter is unfavourable owing to its occupation 
of a Kakshya having a rekha,a stronger Saturn brings loss of 
happiness from wife and other relations and a stronger Jupiter 
brings loss from the produce of Moola types. In this manner, the 
Drekana-Navamsa positional results are to be interpreted and 
gain or loss from these sources is judged from the presence or 
absence of a bindu in the Kakshya that falls in this position. 
As an instance of delineating the results from the 
Panchabhutatatva, suppose the Sun occupies a Kakshva of Sat- 


XXVi 


urn. The Sun represents acerbity of taste and perception of shape, 
while Saturn represents astringent taste and perception of feel or 
touch. If the Kakshya occupied contains a bindu and if both the 
planets are strong, acquisition of silk or some equally fine fabric 
appealing to the eve and soft in feel may be expected. If both are 
weak, they represent ugly and coarse fabrics like black rugs,etc. 
But, when the Kakshya of Saturn contains a rekha, there is loss, 
instead of gain, of the above things, the nature of actual experi- 
ence depending on the strength or weakness of the Sun and 
Saturn. Here also the gain or loss has to be judged from the 
presence or absence of a bindu in the relevant Kakshya. 
These. effects of the transits of planets should also be 
interpreted according to the bhavas transited.The transits of 
planets through a bhava containing more than 4 bindus in their 
respective Ashtakavargas produce auspicious results relating to 
that bhava ; and conversely, transits through a bhava containing 
less than 4 bindus produce adverse results. The postion of the 
transited house- or, in other words, the ordinal number ‘of that 
house- may be reckoned as usual from the Ascendant where 
theAscendant describes the native himself, the 2nd bhava ules his 
wealth, family, etc., and so on.It may also be considered’ from the 
position of the respective radical planet whose kakshya is tran- 
sited e.g. fromradical Satum when the Kakshya of Saturn is 
transited, and so on (vide Chap.XVI). Which of the two methods 
yields better results is a question to be decided by further 
investigation. We have tentatively adopted the first method for the 


example horoscope as it appears to be the more conventional 
method. 


The results are again to be judged according to the 
Karakatva of the planets. The Sun is the Karaka of the father and 
personality of the native; the Moon is the Karaka of the mind and 
the mother, and SO on. 

Lastly, they should be judged from the position of the 
planets. in the Upachaya or Apachaya houses from the Lagna. The 

_former increases the good effects (if there is a preponderance of 
bindus) to a greater extent than the latter. If there is a paucity of 
bindus, the Upachava houses produce less adverse results as 


XXVii 
compared with Apachaya houses. These effects are further en- 
hanced, if the planets in question occupy friendly, own or 
exaltation houses, or diminished if they are combust or in inimical 
‘or debilitation houses. 


The next point for consideration is how to find the time of 
fruition and the periods of prosperity and adversity. This is done 
from the study of transits and the Prastarashtakavargas of the 
planets. Herein the bindus and the rekhas in a bhava are’ distrib- 
uted in the different Kakshyas, the bindus only being placed in the 
Kakshyas of the donating planets. When a planet transits a bhava 
his Prastarashtakavarga is to be referred to. Out of the total 
duration of a transit,the periods of transit through Kakshyas 
having bindus produce auspicious results and the remaining 
periods inauspicious ones. The net result will be good or bad 
according to the preponderance of bindus or rekhas.. 


_ At the time of transiting a bhava a planet produces eight 
types of results for the 8 Kakshyas which will be good or bad 
according to the presence or absence of a bindu in his 
Ashtakavarga.But all these do not take place at the same 
time(videChap. XVI). When a planet transits a Kakshya he pro- 
duces one and only one type of result, which is according to the 
bhava position he occupies from the radical position of the lord 
of the Kakshya transited. At a given moment there will be seven 
types of transit results produced by the seven planets. Thus the 
results of Gochara, i.c.transits should be observed and analysed 
from the transits of all the planets. But in acutal pracrtice the 
Gochara results are gnerally considered from the Moon alone and 

“sometimes from the Lagna, by simply using the auspicious 
positions from the radical Moon or the Lagna in the respective 
planet's Ashtakavarga Here, too, the total number of bindus in the 
bhava transited is not taken into account for finding out the 
proportion of the predicted results. Owing to this and also owing 
to the effects of the Gochara considered in relation to other 
planets (which are usually not taken into account) some of the 
incidents predicted do not materialise, or if they do materialise, 
they only falsify the prediction. 


XXXVI 

It may perhaps be due to this reason that some teachers of 
astrology opine that the planetary Dasa effects are more abiding 
(Sthira) and the effects produced by the transits of planets (which 
are given with reference to the radical Moon only) are transitory 
(Asthira). When the efficacy of the planetary Dasas and their 
Antaras itself depends more on the Ashtakavarga strength of the 
Dasa lord and the number of bindus (in his Ashtakavarga) in the 
houses of the Antara lords (Vide Chap.XV) than on bd strength 
considered from Shadvarga, Uccha, Kendra positions, etc. 
alone,this statement (made without reference to Ashtakavarga) 
" cannot always hold good. It is true that planets possessed of both 
these kinds of strength produce by far the best and auspicious 
results during their Dasas and Antaras than when they possess 
only one kind of strength.Again, in a Dasa period many events 
are predicted as likely to take place and the time of some of these 
is determined from the Antaras. But whether any of these events 
can at all take place and that too, at the time determined, has to 
be judged from the transit of the Dasa and Antara lords through 
the various bhavas and the bindus contained in him. The occur- 
rence of the event and the success of the prediction are assured, 
only when the bhava occupied at that time (at the commencement 
of the Dasa as well as at the time of the transit) by the respective 
planets contain more bindus than rekhas in the Ashtakavarga of 
the Dasa lord, irrespective of the bhava transited. If the bindus 
are very few the prediction ends in failure, for the expected good 
does not materialise or does so only in a feeble way. Therefore, 
even in an innocuous Dasa period, the best possible results and 
” the time of their occurrence can be determined from the transit of 
the planets through dbhavas having the maximum number of 
bindus in their respectrrive Ashtakavargas. Conversely, even 
during the best Dasa period, a frustration or failure can 
happen,when the planets in transit at that time occupy bhavas 
having the least number of bindus in their respective 
Ashtakavargas. 


The interpretation of the Gochara results from the 


Samudayashtakavarga gives greater precision in respect of time 
and greater accuracy in respect of the shape of events than that 


XXIX 


from individual Ashtakavargas. Since 337 is the total number of 
bindus, the average for each bhava is 28. Bhavas containing 28 - 
or more dindus are auspicious and those with less than 28 are 
inauspicious. When one or more planets transit a bhava having 
more than 28 bindus they invariable provide auspicious results 
which are augmented by the increase in the number of bindus. 
These results will be the sum total of the effects arising from 
position of the transited house, that is to say, the ordinal number 
of that house as reckoned from the radical planet as well as the 
Lagna. The planet receiving less than 4 bindus (in his 
Ashtakavarga) alone may not produce any auspicious results, but 
in any case he does not cause harm during the transit. Again, the 
Samudayashtakavarga is very helpful in estimating the periods of 
greatest prosperity or adversity from the transit of planets through 
the bhavas containing the highest or lowest number of dindus. 
The periods of prosperity or affliction or possible death of the 
several relations of the native also can be judged from the radical 
positions of the respective Karaka planets and the transits 
affecting such planets. 


In a civil year of 365 days the Sun goes round the zodiac 
once and he takes a month for passing through each rasi or 
bhava. As the zodiac is divided into 96 Kakshyas in the 
Ashtakavarga of the Sun (and other planets), the Sun takes on 
anaverage about 3.3/4days (the exact duration depends on the 
extent of the Kakshya and the motion of the Sun) to transit a 
Kakshya and during this time he brings to maturity the effects 
(good or bad) relating to that Kakshya. During one year the Moon 
’ makes about 13 and odd revolutions round the zodiac and 
produces results in accordance with her Ashtakavarga bindus, 
thirteen times in a year as compared with those produced by the 
Sun once. She takes about 17 Ghatikas, 1c. 6 hrs. 48 min. 
(varying according to the Kakshya as well as her motion) to 
transit a Kakshya. During this transit about 4 rasis of the zodiac 
and 7 Kala-horas elapse owing to the diurnal rotation of the earth. 
From these details one can easily find out the time of the best 
period nearest to the hour, from (a) the positions of the Sun and 
Moon in Kakshyas having bindus (in their respective 


XXX 


Ashtakavargas), (b) from the rising sign containing the maximum 
number of bindus (in Samudayahtakavarga) and (c) from the 
Kala-hora of the strongest planet. A further sub-division of the 
time to the nearest quarter-hour can be had from the Ascendant 
and Kala-hora by. selecting the moment when a Kashya having a 
bindu is rising. The expected event will come to pass at this time. 
Importance is given to the Sun as he is the planet that brings to 
maturity, and to the Moon as she nourishes and preserves, the 
effects that are indicated as certain from the Ashtakavarga 
combined with those determined from Dasas and Antardasas, 
Yogas, etc. If other planets are in bhavas having the maximum 
bindus in their respective Ashtakavargas and in Kakshyas asso- 
ciated with bindus, effects of the events are experienced to a great 
extent, and to 4 still greater extent, if the planets are in bhavas 
having more bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga. 


_ This method can be used to the greatest advantage for the 
selection of an auspicious time (Mulurta) for any function. Find 
out the month (to be determined from the Solar ingress day) and 
_ the particular day on which the sum of the bindus asssociated 
with the transiting planets (from their respective Ashtakavargas 
prepared from the birth horoscope) in the bhavas occupied by 
them, is the maximum. Select the period when the Sun and Moon 
are passing through Kakshyas having bindus. From the bhavas 
and Kala-horas rising during this period, select that bhava which 
has the maximum number of bindus as the rising sign, and/or the 
Kala-hora of the planet which is asssociated with the maximum 
number of bindus. From the Ascendant choose the time when a 
Kakshya having a bindu in the Ashtakavarga of the lord of that 
bhava is rising. If all these are selected properly one is assured 
of success. 


When sages like Parasara, Narada, Garga, etc., and even 
Varahamihira (in the Laghujataka) maintain that in considering 
transits (Gochara) of planets it is the bhavas having the maximum 
number of bindus in their respective Ashtakavargas and/or in 
Samudayashtakavarga that.should be taken for all auspicious 
functions, and not merely the bhavas reckoned to be good from’ 


te 


the radical Moon, we fail to understand why this method of 
analysing is ignored or neglected. It may perhaps be due to 
paucity of information in the published and existing standard 
works on this branch of astrology in all its aspects, and to the fact 
that what is available has been scattered about in various works 
or in manuscripts not within the reach of ordinary students. 

According to ancient authors selection of good bhavas 
through mere Gochara position is a gross and superficial method 
while the selection made through Ashtakavarga is a more refined 
and hence a more acceptable method. They further state that one 
should resort to ordinary Gochara selections only when 
Ashtakavarga positions are not available (vide Chap. XIII). 

In this manner the Ashtakavarga can be applied to deter- 
mine the time of events and the interpretation of planetary 
influences. As sage Parasara says (Chap. 1) the Ashtakavaraga is 
a simpler and easier method of gauging the strength of planets, 
the effect of transits and providing the events in one's life from the 
horoscope, as compared with other methods like the Shadvarga 
strength, Yogas. Dasas, etc. In short, "the Ashtakavarga tables 
are useful in the prediction of most of the important events of life. 
In predicting the length of life, Antardasas, and all other benefic 
or malefic results, these Ashtakavarga results are first determined , 
to ascertain which planets are benefic (or malefic) and in which 
houses, as they pass round the heavens; and then ultimate results 
are judged."! 

A Synopsis of the Contents : 

Chap. 1 : Introduces the subject in the form of a talk between 
Maitreya and Parasara. 

Chap II : The enumeration of benefic places and the method of 
preparing the full Ashtakavarga tables of the Sun and 
other planets. 

Chap Ii : The Trikona and Ekadhipatya reductions and the 
calculation of the Shodhyapindas of all the planets. 


1. Notes by Swami Vijnanananda on the Brihatjataka; Chap. IX, page 
184, S.B.H. Vol. Xi. : 


XXXil 


Chap. IV : Matters to be considered from the bhavas and the 


Chap. 


Chaps. 


_ Chap 


planets and the method of application to the relevant 
relations. The strength of the bhavas and planets from 
their individual Ashtakavargas; the general effects of the 
planets in the houses occupied at birth and in transit 
through houses containing 0 to 8 bindus. 

V. The Prastarshtakavarga (distributive) and the 
Sarvachanchachakra ; and the determination of the tinte 
when events. good or evil, take place and the nature of 
events. 

VI-XII_: The individual Ashtakavargas of the Sun, the 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Satum; the 
nature of the effects produced by them when associated 
with certain number of bindus, in the houses occupied at 
birth and in transit. and calculation of periods of adversity 
from Shodhyapinda, etc. 

XIII : Various matters considered from the Ashtakavargas 
of planets, such as finding out the time of sickness and 
death, adversity, etc. 


Chap. XIV : The Samudayashtakavarga, its preparation, the 


Chap 


Chap. 


Chap 


minimum bindus required for each bhava and some typ- 
ical combinations of bindus and planets in certain bhavas 
for certain type of effects, the method of finding out 


auspicious day, month, etc., and the general effects pro- 


duced when the aggregate of bindus is 14 and above. 
XV : Different methods of calculating the duration of life, 
the planetary Dasas and Antardasas from the Ashtakavarga 
and the application of Ashtakavarga to other types of 
Dasas. 

XVI : The effects produced by siaaae als consid- 
ered in relation to the radical planets and the Ascendant. 
XVII: Events that may take place in the life of a person 
owing to the position of planets at birth in Kakshyas 
having a bindu or rekha. 


Chap. XVIII : Summary of various articles pubhished in various 


XXXiil 
magazines sinee last-many years. 

In conclusion, we crave the indulgence of our readers for 
scores of solécisms that have crept in while we were struggling to 
squeeze the right sense out of many a tough Sanskrit verse and 
express it in a foreign language. Further, we also consider it 
necessry to emphasize here the fact that the present treatise claims 
to be not a master key but only an attempt to solve some of the 
knotty problems of predictive astrology. We are fully aware that 
we have touched only the fringe of the subject so far, and much 
more remains to be done by way of investigation in order to 
confirm (and sometimes even to reject outright, if necessary,) the 
views and findings of the ancients. But for obvious reasons we 
have been compelled to postpone all such work to a later edition. 
In the meanwhile, we fervently hope that even what little spade- 
work we have done at present will suffice to stimulate interest 
among all research-loving students who are, no doubt, better 
qualified than ourselves to delve deeper: into this fascinating 
subject. 

POSTSCRIPT 

In view of our departure from the traditional method and 
the adoption of the bhava method of Ashtakavarga the reader will 
naturally have the curiosity to know how our innovation would 
work in high latitudes. We are, therefore, applying the 
Ashtakavarga system to the horoscope of King Edward VII after 
converting it to the Nirayana basis. It necd not be said that for 
observing the effect of transits through the houses the tropical 
horoscope can as well be used. 

As this is a sort of stop-press item, the reader is requested to 
revert to this case after mastering the contents of the book. 

A - Horoscope of King Edward VII 
Date of birth : Tuesday, the 9th November 1841 ; 10-48 am.; © 
G.M.T.; Buckingham Palace, London 51° 30'N, 0° 8-1/2'W. 
Ayanamsa : 21° 37' 59". Janma Nakshatra : Uttara-phalguni, 
4th quarter. 
Balance of the Sun's Dasa (Vimshottari): 0 Y. 11m.24d. 

Planetary positions (in signs, degrees and minutes) : The 


XXXIV 
Sun 6-25-16; the Moon 5-7-49; Mars 8-23-36; Mercury 7-10-4R; 
Jupiter 7-29-50; Venus 5-27-36; Satur 8-8-31; Rahu 9-12-4; 
Ketu 3-12-4; Uranus 10-28-59; Neptune 9-22-41; Pluto !1-27- 
48R and Mandi (Gulika) 94-34. 


House Cusp (Centre) ~ Terminal Sandhi 
Ist 85 50° 59 85 26° 49 
2nd 9 17 39 10 8 29 
3rd “ 10 29 20 It 20 W 
4th 0 |i 0 0 20 10 
5th 0 29 20 1 8 30 
6th i 17 (39 1 26 49 
7th 2 § §9 2 26 49 
8th 3 WwW 39 4 8 29 
9th 4 29 20 5 20 WW 
10th 6 tt 0 6. 20 °10 
llth 6 29 20 7 8&8 30 
12th 7 #17 #39 7 26 49 


Bhinna and Samudaya Ashtakavarga Bindus :- 
Bhava Sun Moon Mars Merc. Jup. Venus Sat. Samudaya 


I 2 3 4 #& 6 3 FF =B8 
i, $8 OS OBS es 
m2 és 3 | S$ 3 “4 = 38 
V5 4 4 6 4 5 t+ =PB 
V3.3 © 2 © 6 © =% 
Ml4 7 2 «#¢ 4 3 5 =9% 
vl4 4 3 4 6 2 2 =B8 
villgd 3 4 6 5S 6 3 =31! 
IX 6 4 3 4 3 6 3 =% 
X 4 4 5 7 5 6 3 = 3% 
Xo 8 SoG A 
Xl 2 2 Jt 4 #3 3 #3 =8 
48 39 S456 52 = 3387-, 


Note : figures indicate the A.V. strength of the radical planets. 
Sun is in 11th bhava, 3rd Kakshya containing a bindu 
Moon is in 9th bhava, 6th Kakshya containing a bindu 
Mars is in Ist bhava, 8th Kakshya containing a bindu 


XXXV 


Mercury is in 12th bhava, 1st Kakshya containing a rekha 
Jupiter is in lst bhava, 2nd Kakshya containing a bindu 
Venus is in 10th bhava, 2nd Kakshya containing a bindu 
Saturn is in Ist bhava, Sth Kakshya containing a rekha 


IMPORTANT EVENTS 


(With brief notes on Dasa and transit influences.) 


Note ; Planets linked with a cross are the lords of the Dasa and 
Antara current at the time of the event. 


13-12-1861 


10-3-1863 


17-1-1864 


3-6-1865 


Nov. - Dec. 


14-1-1892 


June 1896 


18-7-1898 


4-4-1900 


22-1-1901 


Father's death-Rahu x Rahu. Transits - Rahu ; through 
Ist house (23 bindus); Saturn and Jupiter in 
Uttarphalguni and Sun in Aslesha (Chap. VI-14 etc.). 


Mariage - Rahu x Jupiter. Transits - Jupiter- 


’ through 10th house (34) in conjuction with Venus. 


Birth of son (Duke of Clarence) - Rahu x Jupitger. 
Transits - Jupiter through 11th (41). 


2nd son born (King George V) - Rahu x Mercury. 
Transits - Rahu and Saturn through 10th (34). 
1871 Illness - Rahu x Venus. Transits - Saturn 


throughIst (23): Rahu, 7th (25) and Mars, Ist and 
2nd (23,29). 


Death of the Duke of Clarence -Jupiter x Rahu. 
Transits - Jupiter, 3rd (23) ; Rahu, Sth 26). 


Won the Derby -Saturn x Saturn. Moon in 9th 
(29;Chap. XIV-14). Transits - Rahu, 2nd (29) ; 


” Saturn, 11th (41); Jupiter, 8th (31). 


Fracture of knee-cap - Saturn x Mercury. Transits - 
Saturn, 12th (18) ; Rahu, Ist (23), Mars, 5th (26). 


Fired at by Sipido - Saturn x Ketu. Transits - Saturn, 
Ist (23) ; Rahu and Jupiter, 12th (18). Mars, 
3rd (23). 


Death of Queen Victoria - Saturn x Venus. Transits 
- Saturn and Jupiter, 1st (23); Rahu, 11th (41). . 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER 


FOREWORD 

AUTHORS’ NOTE 

PROLOGUE 

INTRODUCING THE SUBJECT 


if 
0 METHOD OF COMPUTING ASHTAKAVARGA 
sin “TRIKONA AND EKADHIPATYA SHODHANAS 
Iv BHAVA AND BINDU PHALA . 
Vv PRASTARASHTAKAVARGA AND 
SAR VACHANCHACHAKRA : 
Vi ASHTAKAVARGA OF -THE SUN. 
Vil ASHTAKAVARGA OF THE MOON 
vo ASHTAKAVARGA OF MARS 
Xx ASHTAKAVARGA OF MERCURY 
xX ASHTAKAVARGA OF JUPITER . 
XI ASHTAKAVARGA OF VENUS . 
XI ASHTAKAVARGA OF SATURN. 
Xi MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS 
XIV SAMUDAYASHTAKAVARGA 
XV AYUS AND DASAS 
XVI PLANETARY TRANSITS (GOCHARA) , 
XvV0 EFFECTS ARISING FROM PLANETARY. 
: POSITIONS AT BIRTH . 
Xvi SUMARY OF VARIOUS ARTICALS 
APPENDICES - 1 ASHTAKAVARGA PLATE 


II PRECESSION (AYANAMSA) 
NAMES OF RASIS AND PLANETS 
ABOUT RASIS AND PLANETS 
@IGNITIES, DEBILITIES, ETC.) 
SAPTAVARGA DIVISIONS 


S< @2H 


DASA 


NAKSHATRAS AND VIMSHOTTARI 


105 
115 
139- 
153 
164 
177 
215 
239 


273 

295 
qd). 
G) 
(6) 


(7) 
(8) 


(10) 


_ CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCING THE SUBJECT 


ag vara - ’ 

way! yaMssead Venafea worry | 
aearaaatoraraaon A PATTI 
ae aeenita pea 
serrata A Ms SMa AHA ATI 


wel Waa a Aral Gleaeal JOT | 
aaseqgersy aq wrersaq Tae A131! 


THAME Aa TReGCA | 
gagaakarrarge frofe seri ty 1 


’ Slokas 1-4 —Maitreva said, “‘O respected one, you have 
explained the combined effects of the planets, arising, out of their 
positions in various bhavas, and their .different movements as 
-accepted by many old sages and Acharvas. It is not possible for 
people to understand and explain all these in detail, owing to their 
sinful deeds and lack of proper intelligence, in this Kaliyuga. 
Therefore, please tell me that Shastra which even people of 
low-intellect can understand and by which they can know good 
and bad events and the longevity clearly, from the positions of 
planets at the time of consideration.” 


MY FS WU Tay Heranfa aaa: | | 
oteararakerrarge Profs aes 14 11 
SRRRIANISS VTA Wars | 
RISE COM UM ICCIRG MRL e na 


4 wena 
rN 
Slokas 5,6 -Parasara replied, "Oh Brahmin, vou have put the 
right question. Hear me attentively. | shall tell you for the benefit 
of humanity, the application of that Shastra(i.e, Ashtakavarga) so 
as to find out one's course of worldly life and longevity (whicly is 
not in any way different from what | have explained previously).” 
Notes : these verses are from Uttarakhanda of Brihatparasra 
Horashatra in the Purvakhanda of which Parasara has explained 
about other methods of prediction. 


aR aa ATA: ASM GHATT: | 

WAM: YTATSI BrHT A MAA AAT: 1 lo 1 | 
a qenferh: aed arent: | 
WaSSge Wa: Heavlaargay: | ic || 
arenas a fared’: | 

We ATTA: A SY RTRTTRTSTAR AA: 1 16 1 | 
maaq Wee we Jararatzatear 

BAVA HPA A WMI WATS | 190 | | 
Prag a weitfa aferat at geeata: | 
fe grigorera festarg wei F711 1991 
arran fasten safer feeutfeay 
She: GAM, Praag FT | 192 1 | 


Slokas 7-12-"The effects, due to the bhavas form the Lagna to the 
12th bhava (Lagna-about oneself, 2nd bhava wealth, etc.,) are 
good and ineerased if the respective bhavas are occupied or 
aspected by benefics or when their lords are in exaltation, in their 
own houses, ete. The reverse is the case, if the said bhavas are 
occupied by malefics, or their lords are in debilitation, or in 
inimical ‘house.The general effects of this type mentioned by 
eminent Acharyas, leamed in Astrology, have been explained by 
me (in the preceding chapters) which are useful in finding out the 
nature of life, longevity, etc. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 5 


But (due to the minuteness of the movements of planets and the 
consequent inability to fix their exact positions in the horoscope) 
even sages like Vasishtha and Brihaspati are not able to determine 
these results accurately. Could it then be possible for mortals to 
find them correctly in this Kaliyuga? (Definitely not). — 


It is said that the delineations (predictions) fromAstrology are of 
two kinds, viz., the general and the particular one (special). The 
general method is from the positions of the planets in the different 
bhavas. Now | shall explain the special method (Astakavarga)". 


RMN Aa WaT WE WI ery! 
ass Vera fafa safFar: 119311 


Se TAMRAC MTA FATEH YATE | 

HEH UUTaA UAH AYT YL 1 1 

Slokas 13, 14- Just as the effects of the planets in different 
bhavas are determined from the Lagna and the Chandra Lagna, 
so also, the effects should be found out from the positions of other 
planets, considering each as the Lagna and the bhava positions of 
the planets in respect to that planet.The experts in Astrology 
should consider in this manner. Therefore the good and bad 
effects that arise due to the positions of the planets in different 
bhavas,with respect to the Sun and other planets and the Lagna(the 
eight fixed points) are given by me. (This is known as the 
Ashtakavarga system). 


Notes : Thus it is found that there are 8 fixed positions in a 
horoscope namely, the positions of the seven planets and that of 
the ascendant at the time of birth. The positions, favourable or 
unfavourable,are always counted with reference to them. Thus a 
planet can, at the maximum, receive 8 binefic points (marked) as 

0. fa-g bindu in a particular bhava, when he is favourably posited 
from all these fixed positions. If a planet is in a bhava unfavourable 
from all these positions, he receives 8 malefic pounts iniarked as, 

| teat rekha). 


6 wenay 


This method to determine the places of benefic or malefic 
effects is known as the Ashtakavarga system because of the 8 
fixed positions. 


ERSTE = 

aa Rema: eta) Ro TASS Tyee a | 
wat ver Ay wee: wer: Rea a dt wae vata | 
ASRS sa ad: asa Gea ETAT | 
waft dai a fran warscanferpe eRe RIT || 


wiftanftoa :- 


ay uRry yaten afeert a oA | 

Spel weeds pel wets | | 

Ga VATee WEN JwH wea seers | 

aH aewelya worea Verena gare: | 194 1 | 
Slokas 15 - When planets are moving through the twelve bhavas 
with reference to the bhavas occupied by them - at birth, they 
produce different kinds of effects. Due to variations in these 


effects it cannot be laid down as a rule that identical results will 
be experienced by persons bom even under the same natal star. 


Notes : Computation of Ashtakavarga - from Janmakundali or 
from Chalitakundali? 


Whether the Ashtakavarga tables are to be prepared from 
Janmakundali or from Chalitakundali (Bhavakundali) is a subject 
of great controversy. Some astrologers prepare the Ashtakavarga 
from the natal chart ie., Janmakundali, while others prepare it 
from Bhavakundali. In this book the latter method is adopted for 
the following reasons :- 


1. Consider, that a child is born at a time when Ist degree . 
of Kataka sign (35-1°-0')) is rising and its birth chart is prepared 
with Kataka as the Lagna. It will take nearly two hours according 
to the latitude of the place for Kataka Lagna to end and Simha 
Lagna to rise. After nearly | hour and 50 minutes past the above 
birth time, if another child is born in the same city (hospital or 
town) naturally Kataka Lagna will be rising with nearly 35-28°- 


ASHTAKAVARGA 7 


0' or so. The birth-chart of the second child will have Kataka 
Lagna and the planets will be more or less in the same signs as 
those in the case of the first one. There will be no other 
appreciable difference between these two horoscopes except that 
of the degrees of the Lagna. Hence, their Ashtakavarga tables will 
be identical, if prepared on the rasi basis. Can one dare say that 
the future events on the strength of the same Ashtakavarga figures 
of the above two children will be idential? Our wise Rishis. sages 
and astrologers did not mean so. 


2. Even in the case of twins bom at an interval of 15,30 
or 45 minutes, having same Lagna rasi, they have their future 
events quite different. One of them may die and the other may. 
survive. One becomes a rich man while the other remains poor. 
One marries and has children while the other is unable to marry 
and has no means to pull on with. Why are there such glaring 
diferences in the events, ever in the case of twins, born of the 
same womb, more or less at the same time and having the same 
natal charts? There is no reply to this, if the Ashtakavarga tables 
are prepared from Janmakundali. 


3. Shripati in his book "Jataka-paddhati" has mentioned 
that half the sum of two adjacent Bhavamadhyas (cusps) is called 
their aff (Sandhi-junction) which falls in one of the 12. rasis. The 
portion of rasi upto Sandhi belongs to the latter half of the 
previous bhava and the portion after the Sandhi belongs to the 
first half of the next bhava. Hence planets in one rasi may give 
the effect of the previous or of the next bhava according to their 
positions with respect to the Bhavasandhi. Planets in two adjacent 
_ fasis may give the effect of one bhava when they are within the 
Sandhis of that dhava. 


Further on Shripati says, (Chapter 1, verse 2) that the . 
bhavas should be calculated at the time of birth, journey, assump- 
tion of a vow, the tonsure, royal coronation, marriage and other 
auspicious ceremonies. For, it is by calculating bhavas that the 
effects due to certain Yogas (combinations) are judged accurately.’ 
Hence, it is appropriate that for Ashtakavarga also the bhava 


g meaat 


positions Should be taken to assess the strength of the planets and 
their effects pertaining to various bhavas. 


4. Usually, a rasi is divided into eight equal parts, each of 
which. is called Kakshya (eu). If rasi method is taken, then 
every rasi will have its first Kakshva belonging to Saturn with 
same range of degrees (i.e., from o° to 3°-45:). The effect of 
Saturn's transit through that Kakshya whether good or bad 
should be felt by all people, simultaneously. But this is not so in 
real life. Therefore, the Kakshya division should be from the 
beginning of the bhava and not from the rasi. Then, for a 
particular zodiacal degree the Kakshva lords will be different 
according to the changes in the Lagna positions. 


5. Moreover, if the Ashtakavarga tables are prepared from 
the Bhavakundali as determined from the longitudes of the 
various planets and the Lagna, one can take into consideration the 
changes in the bhava positions of some planets here and there. 
This seems to be a better view.Kalyanavarma. the celebrated 
author of Saravali and the great astrologerGunakara, author of 
Horamakaranda.also hold the same view. 


It is therefore necessary that for purposes of preparing 
Ashtakavarga of a native the Chalitakundali (and not the 
Janmakundali) must be considered. This basis has been adopted 
in this book. ; 


CHAPTER II 
METHOD OF COMPUTING ASHTAKAVARGA 


TRIER | TSA Hg rees | 
seat gfa a aegw@eormeraftentiadseq | 1911 


Sloka | - The method of computing Ashtakavarga (#§ © & @ 7) 
which has been highly spoken of by people learned in Astrology, 
and which can help us to find out good and bad effects caused 
by the planets in transit, through the various bhavas (of the 
zodiac), is now being explained by me. 


TaqreeerrMssat wre Heaertsarsrssy | 1211 


Sloka 2 - Draw the figure of Rasichakra (<1Rram) on the floor and 
insert the planets and the Lagna in their respective bhavas (as 
represented by signs) as it was at the time of birth. Place the 
beads in the respective bhewas as directed in the columns, always 
beginning with the bhava occupied by the particular planet from 
which the good positions are considered. 


Notes : In olden days when writing materials paper, etc. were not 
in vogue. the astrologers used to draw horoscopes on the ground 
and used beads. etc. | 


VYRTTHTT - 
gente aeanty yard aera | 
Deuyfterar Pfésteersrard | | 
UR fear WaCTERGeTaT | 
yes aaa Pféetfefracwrd || 


10 wena: 


wmraeitecadkniacdsrd aaa warez | 

AA: Werenefaurenypaendtgeracas ary | 13 | | 

Sloka 3 - Designate the several rasis occupied by the planets at 
the time of birth, as their respective Lagnas for computing the 
bindus in the proper bhavas. The effects of the. bindus in a bhava 
are to be predicated in 8 ways according to the bhava position 
it (this bhava) bears from the 8 fixcd points, in the Ashtakavarga 
of the planet whose transit is considered. 


Notes : See chapters V and XVI for further details. 
wearard :- 
We Tel wa Rearedcandsseaq | 
ae daa ARTES Te: | | 
aaa :- 
HFLIGHA MeN AAA H A | 
ARPA wa esta Tyga: | | 
The Standard Horoscope 


Birth place Palghat; Latitude 10°-45' N: Longitude 76° 
-52'Avanamsha 22° -5!-9"' Sunrise 5-53 L.T.: Sunset 5-58 L.T.: 
Date of birth-14-9-1874: Local Time 11-52-1/2 p.m. 


Lagna SS Dashama 
10°28°-50!. 


28-49-37: 
NN . 
on qo 


* In this book verses marked with an asterisk designate rekha as a 
benefic point and bindu as a malefic point. 


ASHTAKAVARGA I! 


Samvat Year 1930: Bhadrapad- Sudi- 3/4 (Tithi) Monday night: 
Swati 3rd Pada:Ishta Ghati 44G-56 Pal. 


The same horoscope according to the system followed 
in South India. 


| Rahu Keth Man 
di 


Planets 


Degrees 


Daily | 58'] 708' 
Motion | 28" 


637 if 2h, BEL Sh 
11" 


Balance of Rahu's Dasa at the time of birth:- 
8 years. 8 months. 7 days: (Vimshottari Dasa System). 


Bhavas 
Sign 
Degrees 
Minutes 
Bhavas 
Sign 
Degrees 
Minutes 
Bhavas 
Sign 
Degrees 


Minutes 


wena: 


The twelve bhavas with their Sandhis 


Pe 


4. 
al 
ne: 
; 
‘a. 
: 


48 


16 


44 


39 


ASHTAKAVARGA 13 


“Bhava or Chalita Chart. 


Dwadasama Chart 


a\ 


(Calculated_as per Jataka-paddhati of Shripatt) 
Sun Moon Mars Merc. jupi. Venus Sat. 


1 2 i 
: 43 

58 

of 0! 0 0 01 0 
0 | 45 7129 | 26 | 44 | 46 
17); 5 | 16 | 40 | 21 } 24 | 9 


Positional 
Strength 
ferret 

Directional 
Strength 


5 

= [a fis [fo [2 [a | 

Ea BE EE 
pepe ete a 


Shee he Pe 
picts 


Note :- In some cases Kalabala (@tetae) and Ayanabala (aaa) 
are combined together as the total Kalabala. 
1 Rupa = 60 Kalas (Shastyamsa), 1 Kala = 60 Vikalas 


Bhava Strength ( in Shastyamsas, Rupas, etc.) 


IV 


I itt VI 
522,147 440.903 396.351 427.085 429,521 434.794 Strength in 
Shastyamsas 
7-20-54 6-36-21 7-1-5 7-14-47 Strength in Rupas, 
a) (12) (10) (8) Kalas and Vikalas 


VI IX Xx Xi Bhava 
507.397 508.092 482.494 493.141 499,461 Strength in 
Shastyamsas 
8-27-24 8-28-5 8-2-30 8-19-28 Strength in Rupas, 
(3) (2) (6) (4) Kalas and Vikalas 


VOUVAVAVIHSV | 


SI 


SAPTA-VARGAS (RASI NUMBER AND THEIR LORDS) :— 


6 10 j 
Mercury} Venus | Saturn 
Moon Sun Ee Sun 
1 6 10 VW 2 ] 7 5 
Saturn Saturn Venus Mars Venus} Sun 
af 7 
10 1 a) 10 
Saptamamsa Saturn Mars | Mercury; Saturn | Venus | Venus 
11 2 il 2 2 
Navamsa Jupiter | Saturn Saturn | Venus | Saturn | Venus ; Venus 
12 1 3 4 
Dwadasamsa Venus Mars Jupiter Mars Mercury | Jupiter; Sun 
Trimsamsa Saturn | Mercury | Jupiter | Jupiter | Jupiter | Saturn | Saturn | Jupiter 


oI 


ASHTAKAVARGA 17 


Gear WearaAe OMA TIT | 
Wala Gears wes TATA HAH | Is 1 
Sloka 4 - In the Sun's Ashtakavarga he is auspicious from:- 


(a) himself in the Ist, 2nd, 4th. 7th, 8th.9th, 10th and 1]th 
houses: 

(b) the Moon in the 3rd. 6th, |0th and | Ith houses: 

(c) Mars in the same houses as from the Sun; 

(d) Mercury in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th. 10th. | Ith and | 2th houses 

(e) Jupiter in the Sth, 6th, 9th and 1 Ith houses; 

(f) Venus in the 6th, 7th and 12th houses: 

(g) Saturn in the same houses as from the Sun; and 

(h) the Lagna in the 3rd, 4th, 6th, ]Oth. 11th and | 2th houses. 

Notes: Parasara first enumerates the malefic places and then the 

benefic places in the preparation of Ashtakavarga. He says that 

the house occupied by a planet whose Ashtakavarga is consid- 

ered, should be taken as the Lagna and the succeeding houses as 

the 2nd, 3rd,etc. In the Sun's Ashtakavarga the number of malefic 

points in each bhava from the Sun is given: then the names of the 


planets contributing them. The same method is followed to 
enumerate benefic places. 


The malefic point is called Karana or bindu and the benefic 
one, rekha or Sthana (Parasara, Yavanas etc.,) while the authors 
in South India (Mantresvara, Vaidyanath etc..) call the malefic 
point, rekha and benefic one, bindu. In this book benefic points 
are termed as bindus and malefic ones as rekhas. The verses 
which differ from this nomenclature are marked with an asterisk 
throughout the book. The Parasara method of putting points, 
being cumbersome, this book gives the verses from Prasnamarga. . 
They (mnemonic verses) are easy to memorise and apply. 

wre udder Wares fae: | 


18 . wena: 
af ara g wiarauta sonra area 
Wess wan ara qalfeernPawqs 14 11 
Sloka 5 — {n the Moon's Ashtakavarga she is auspicious from:- 
(a) the Sun in the 3rd, 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th and [Ith houscs: 
(b) herself in the Ist, 3rd, 6th, 7th, 10th and 11th houses; 
(c) Mars. in the 2nd, 3rd, Sth, 6th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses: 


(d) Mercury in the Ist, 3rd, 4th, Sth, 7th. 8th, 10th and 11th 
houses' 


(e) Jupiter* in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and | 1th houses; 
(f) Venus in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses; 
(g) Satur in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, and 11th houses; and 
(h) the Lagna in the 3rd, 6th. 10th and 11th houses. 


Thus the several auspicious places considred from 8 fixed 
points beginning with the Sun and ending with the Lagna have 
been given. 


wre aor fered qGaacadhresty | 
prgerrakera: wa wf: wer afar i6 11 
afermadeniqhtd aad man AAT | 

Slokas 6, 6(1/2) - In Mars' Ashtakavarga he is auspicious 
from :- 

(a) the Sun in the 3rd_-5th, 6th, 10th and 11th houses: 

(b) the Moon in the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses, 

(c) himself in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and i [th houses; 
(d) Mercary in the 3rd. Sth, 6th and 11th houses: 

(e) Jupiter in the 6th,]0th, [lth and 12th houses; 

(f) Venus in the 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th houses; 

(g) Saturn in the Ist, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 1th houses: and 
(h) the Lagna in the Ist, 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses. 


In the ist, 4th, 7th, 8th. 10th, 11th, and 12th hours from 
Jupiter according to Brihat-jataka and Saravali 


ASHTAKAVARGA 19 
WMASWA WH TST YTATAS ATTA | N09 || 
ara wR aa Famfqaray | 
UA TYCHTE GRUHGMTSaAP AT GAR | be, 1 


Slokas 7,8 - In Mercury's Ashtakavarga he is auspicious from:- 


(a) 


(g) 


(h) 


the Sun in the 5th, 6th,9th,1 1th and 12th houses; 
the Moon in the 2nd, 4th, 6th. 8th, 10th and 11th houses: 
Mars in the Ist, 2nd, 4th. 7th, 8th. 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses; 
himself in the Ist, 3rd, Sth. 6th.9th, 10th, 11th and 12th 
houses; 
Jupiter in the 6th, 8th, [Ith and 12th houses; 
Venus in the Ist, 2nd, 3rd. 4th, Sth, 8th, 9th and 11th 
houses; 
Saturn in the Ist, 2nd, 4th. 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and Ith 
houses; and 
the Lagna in the Ist, 2nd, 4th. 6th, 8th, 10th and 1 1th houses. 
vires Gaeantearerrsa wef a 
Rages waranasre wrx tyr 8 11 
staftutte ata aactqesurqEny | | 


Slokas 9, 9(1/2) - In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga he is auspicious 
from :- 


(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 


(f) 
(g) 


the Sun in the Ist, 2nd, 3rd. 4th.. 7th, 8th, 9th,]0th and 11th 
houses: 

the Moon in the 2nd, 5th, 7th. 9th and 11th houses: 

Mars in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th. 8th, 10th and 11th houses: 
Mercury in thelst, 2nd, 4th. Sth. 6th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses: 


himself in thelst, 2nd, 3rd. 4th. 7th, 8th, 10th and 1 Ith 
houses: 


Venus in the 2nd, Sth, 6th, 9th, 10th and 1 \th houses: 
Satum in the 3rd , 5th, 6th and 12th houses;and 


20_ rent: 


(h) the Lagna in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, Sth, 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses. 


Praag yal Sere wrrerOTg TTT | 190 |) . 
SrA FY eT AEG 
Reragrre carat wrsefyay | 1991 | 


Slokas 10,11 - In Venus' Ashtakavarga she is auspicious from:- 
(a) the Sun in the 8th,1]th and 12th houses: 


(b) the Moon in the !st,2nd, 3rd,4th, 5th,8th,9th, 11th and ! 2th 
houses; ; ; 


(c) Mars* in the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th houses. 
(d) Mercury in. the3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th and 11th houses; 
(e) Jupiter in the ‘Sth, 8th, 9th, 10th and 1! 1th houses; 


(f) herself in the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and } Ith 
houses; 


(g) Saturn in the 3rd. 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and ! Ith houses; 
(h) the Lagna in the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, Sth, 8th, 9th and 11th: 
houses; 
AIRY UR OTe SAAT ORR TATHTRA | 
Aon ArH AerHe DEPT WORE! 192 1 | 
gata afl wamsardern Farts | 
va: wafaRerargmeamy farateery 1 193 1! 
Sloka 12, 13 - In Saturn's Ashtakavarga he is auspicious from :- 
(a) the Sun in the Ist. 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and | 1th houses; 
(b) the Moon in the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses: 
(c) Mars in the 3rd. 5th, 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses; 
(d) Mercury in the 6th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses: 
(e) Jupiter in the 5th, 6th, 11th and 12th houses: 
(f) Venus in the 6th. 11th and 12th houses: 
(g) himself in the 3rd, Sth, 6th and 11th houses; and 


* In the 3rd, Sth, 6th, 9th, I]th and 12th houses from Mars. 
according to Brihat-jataka. Here Saravali follows Parasara. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 21 


(h) the Lagna in the Ist, 3rd, 4th,6th,10th and 11th houses. 
In this manner the auspicious positions have been men- 
tioned by me in order, by figures represented by the consonants. 
These bindus are to be recorded from the houses occupied by the 
planets and the Lagna in preparing Ashtakavarga of each planet. 


Notes : It is seen that there is a difference between Parasara and 
Varahamihira, in the case of Jupiter in the Moon's Ashtakavarga 
and of Mars in that of Venus’ Ashtakavarga. This may not affect 
the Samudayashtakavarga figures much but in the 
Bhinnashtakavarga this might bring a difference in the reductions 
and further calculations (as explained later). In this book 
Parasara is followed throughout, since his (and his followers') 
works alone give the effects of the planets according to their 
Ashtakavarga strength, etc.. in detail, Where as Varahamihira 
has mentioned Ashtakavarga positions only in Brihat-jataka, Ch. 
IX and has said nothing further about the subject. 

Again when the Samudayashtakavarga mnemonic verses "ate 
afersst - (infra-Chap.XIV - verses 2,3)" are considered. it is 
found that this author closely follows Parasara. Mantresvara 
(Phaladeepika) too agrees with this view. 


qe er wen yaty wen al 

wafer qafa wae orrerarfafea mara: 1198 1 | 
Sloka 14 - In the mnemonics (S/okas 4 to 13) of the Ashtakavarga 
computation, the n, 4 which is zero in the (wevafe) Katapavadi 
values, here represents 10 i.c.,10th house. In the same distich 


when a smaller digit | or 2. comes altet a higher one, it should 
betaken as 11th or 12th place. 


Notes : The meaning of Katapayadi system used in South India 
to represent numerical figures in the ancient Sanskrit texts :- 


arora: 
peqaatygts fos eSaT: | 
A YR A an ER Hat Hf 1 
(9) area: 2) erfesa; (3) area; (y) are 


22 


wepat: 


are the conventions followed to represent numerical figures which 
are easy to memorise. In the case of joint consonants the value 
of the last consonant is to be taken. 4 and 3 represent O value 
and the vowels have no numerical value. 


The details are as follows: 


1 
eB 
c 
| 
a 


In some verses 9 is represented by ® 


2 

@ 
oS 
D 
x 


3 


ahaa 4 


4 


ao 2 a 


5 


Ss. 


TJ 


Wt 


q 


es) ee 


7 
w 
53 


a 


a Sf 


an 


9 0 

a (a) - a@rfena; 

q = (a) -- erfasa; 
-- Ufeqed; 

(@)-- arene; 


P= H+ Y=6,H+ X= 2;M=H + Y=1;H=% 
+h= 1, e8 = A=3; T= OF F= Vete. 

Numbers of more than one digit expressed in the mnemonic 
form are always deciphered from right to left (by the rule 3tgar=T 


aad afer) 


aa is 8 and 4 
gal is 9 and 5 


fer, is 4 and 5 


wea is 7, 3 and 3 


aya is 0,0 8 and | * 


> 


? 


3 


>< 


ot 


should be taken as 48. 


49, 
54. 
337. 
1800. 


Similarly the Moon's Tables of Vararuchi in mnemonics 


are given below :- 


ta sa: equal to 0S—12°—3' 
30 21 


erat equal to 0S—24°—9" 


90 42 


PRISSY ARE equal to 1S—6°—22' 
22601 


23 


ASHTAKAVARGA 


Ashtakavarga Tables giving the auspicious places:- 


The Sun's A. V. 48 


Mars A. V. 39 


The Moon's A. V. 49 


Jupiter's A. V. 56 


Mercury's A. V. 54 


a 
BH NO tem OD 
; = 


on 
—_ 
femrntnwornvon 
— ot 


Po Nth ODO 
—_ = 

-_ 

Wa N OM TIN OH 


Venus’ A. V. 52 Saturn's A. V. 39 
a 


i 
aa 


— OM BN — 


— 


| 
2 
3 
4 
5 
8 
9 
1 
2 


— 


eration ARiseHnaidsate afr 
aq wre yeaa yf afee Proceed 1 1941 | 


Sloka 15 — In the above Slokas of computing Ashtakavarga the 
order followed, begins with the Sun and ends with the Lagna. 
(But in Brihat-jataka Chapter [X, S/okas | to 7 give the order of 
donors which has to be followed in Trikona and Ekadhipatva 
Shodhanas). When reduction is to be made the planet which has 
‘contributed the first bindu will have his bindu eliminated. (Refer 
to verse No.12, Chapter No.X). 


GEvoNAH :- - 
RH: VAATIay eT ASMA ELAN 
aHieaied deed wares SRR | 
viargtgarnrgy sara: ere 
WaT: YAY A —Mea TAM: | | 


araittandy dafieaurene: aPaZy: | 
MMS aMsHaqaese Tehran: 
Gar VeaTAGyy IN: HATA || 


ASHTAKAVARGA 25 


Order of donors of bindus 


= st 


Moon |Lagna | Mars |Moon} Sun 


Mars 


Planets 


Sun |Lagna|Moon| Mars sat | Mere Merc | Venus suet 


Merc. {Venus | Sat. | Mars | Jupi. 


Notes - This is the order of the donors of bindus in each planet's 
Ashtakavarga mentioned in Brihat-jataka. Their uses are referred 
to in other places where reductions are applied. 


SIMS: FAY Wend Taw erga: 
Ueedy waRdeaukRyurenrcen ayaqe: | 
wReraay aftq: eae aerate: 
TTT GST aM: Srey AAS: || 
RRrESTETEYY Bo PrN 
qatq aeray dkasaferernfen, antag | 
arrreaamy era Aredia 
feriveragaragdaanl sid GeReaaary | | 
AMER AAMT: Be: Vesa: Ra 
. Rae wey qubeimacahesatrn: yaa | 


.| Moon | Lagna 


Venus 


26 sreeaat: 


ai icici ir Pa 19611 

Sloka 16 - The places that are mentioned above produce 
auspicious results and the rest cause inauspicious results. In any 
sign (bhava), taking into consideration all the bindus (good) and 
rekhas (bad)indicated by the planets at the time of birth, only so 
much bear fruit as remain after cancellation against one another. 
The good results of the bindus that remain when in Upachava 
(3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th) houses, in friendly or own houses or in 
exaltation, prove increasingly auspicious; while in Apachava 
houses, in inimical houses and in debilitation houses become 
weakened, during the transit of the respective planet whose 
Ashtakavarga is considered. 

Notes — (1) The net excess of rekhas over bindus produces 
greater malefic results in Apachava houses and they are a little 
improved in Upachaya houses. (2) Similarly it can be secn that 
houses containing 28 or more bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga 
prove auspicious and those having less-than 28 bindus are 
inauspicious during the transit of anv planet. (Ref. Chap. XIV— 
verse No. 7). 


BRASS: _ 
WAMSHaVA BAAR ZerT: 
od afer adistewd ee waereter:| 
PordvaaRem pret yea aster 
Patras yera: we: we at BAA || 


sl. 16-17 ASHTAKAVARGA 27 


aRraett- 
Bo Peay aA TET: 
weaerafatd freufe wreapseracner | 


weeeayegey YORI wed cafe wy 
arrest Met A GRR HAI | 


RHA TAIT HT:- 


corn mf wftafte pnt arene ar 
aaa we sear westa ages: || 


aa vat dhrarearen yfe: warguerpenfefa-ea: | 

ween werafeaa: waheat: wyarressre: | 199 1 | 
Sloka 17 — The total number of bindus received by the planets 
beginning with the Sun are 48, 49, 39, 54, 56, 52 and 39 
respectively, The aggregate of all these bindus is 337 which is 
called Samudaya bindus; the sum total of all the 
Bhinnashtakavargas (i.e., the seven plantes) is called Samudavya. 


WITS TAT: 
ea oat inh faey: ert wat fi. ward 
aeaimyonerren: qarertar: | 
OTTHARTT:- 
WTI ATI AGATE: URaTTHTea* | 
Wa GaN AAI Gen wAorscHa ta: | | 
Elsewhere :- &a: QAt MAT XAT after Ga wa | 


These are the rekhas (malefic points) for the planets from 
the Sun onwards: viz., 48, 47, 57. 42, 40, 44, and 57 respectively 
totalling 335. 

The (eight) donors are the seven planets and the Lagna 
while receipients are the seven planets only. This will be observed 
by taking a comparative view of the donors of the bindus given 
in the verses 4 to 13. Figures given in the third column show the 
number of places in which the respective planet is auspicious 
from the Moon (Gochara for the Moon) which is usually given in 
the standard works as Gochara. 


28 aeearaaf: 


<———Donors——> 


> 


Receipients. 


Notes — Application of the rules for preparing Ashtakavarga of 
the Standard Horoscope:- 


In preparing Ashtakavarga tables. to denote the benefic a bindu 
'0' is put and to denote a malefic place a rekha ‘|’ (vertical line) is put. 
The donors of bindus or rekhas are the seven planets (Sun to Saturn) 
and the Lagna. Thus in the Ashtakavarga chart of any planet there can 
be maximum 8 bindus and minimum nil in any house. 


The Sun is said to be auspicious in (GYarag*rars) i.e. 
in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses from his 
position (the house occupied by him). In the Standard Horo- 
scope the Sun is in the 4th house from the Lagna. So starting 
from the position of the Sun, bindus i.e., benefic points are 
marked each in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses. The remaining houses are marked with rekhas. 

The Sun's Ashtakavarga 


from himself 


ASHTAKAVARGA 29 


The Moon is posited in the 5th house from the Lagna. The Sun 
is benefic in (Ta) the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses from the 
position of the Moon. Starting from the position of the Moon, 
bindus are marked each in the 3rd, 6th, 10th and | 1th houses. The 
remaining houses are marked with rekhas. 


The Sun's Ashtakavarga 
from the Moon. 


| 
Fe a ten 


Mars is in’ the 3rd house from the Lagna. The bindus are 
marked in (qratagzaats) the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th. !Oth and 
I 1th houses from Mars. The remaining houses are marked with rekhas. 


The Sun's Ashtakavarga 
from Mars. 


30 wena: 


Mercury is in the 4th house from the Lagna. The Sun is benefic 
in (TMeeraN)the 3rd, Sth, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses from — 
Mercury. The remaining houses are marked with rekhas. 


The Sun's Ashtakavarga 
from Mercury. 


sex) 


Jupiter is in the 5th house from the Lagna, therefore the bindus, 


beginning with that house, are marked in (2rsfr4) the 5th, 6th, 9th and 
11th houses. 


The Sun's Ashtakavarga 
from Juptier. 


sex] 
WO 


Venus is in the 5th house from the Lagna. The Sun is benefic in 
(qt) the 6th, 7th and 12th houses from Venus. 
The Sun's Ashtakavarga 


eK from Venus. 


VOSGES 


ASHTAKAVARGA 31 


Saturn is in the 8th house from the Lagna.The Sun is benefic 
in (GRaragtTATH) the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th 
houses from Saturn. 


The Sun's Ashtakavarga 
from Saturn. 


eX) LEE 


POX 


Lastly take the Lagna or ascendant. The Sun is benefic in 
(@¥aAeR) the 3rd, 4th, 6th,] 0th, 11th and 12th houses from the 
Lagna. The Lagna is in Mithuna. 


The Sun's Ashtakavarga 
from the Lagna. 


YOOX 
VON 


All the bindus and rekhas can be put in one chart as shown 
below. Add together all the bindus in the Lagna ie.,the Ist house 
(ffey=), in each of the above eight charts and get the figure 
representing the total number of bindus in the Sun's Ashtakavarga. 
In the same way the totals for the remaining eleven houses are 
made. Similarly totals for rekhas also should be made. This final 
process of totalling of bindus completes the preparation of the 
Sun's Ashtakavarga. The bindus can be marked in one chart by 


32 mena: 


taking the house occupied by each planet and the Lagna as. 


ee sooaly 
Pree me a 


the starting point. 


wig) 
SUN 


oooc0(y) 


aC) 


ei lien: 
IHG) ] 111i) Hee SUN 

The maximum number of bindus possible in a house can be 
8 and the minimum nil. Usually the sum of the bindus alone 
‘is put in each house, omitting the rekhas which can be 
obtained by deducting the number of bindus from 8. The sum 
of the bindus in each bhava received by the Sun, from the 
various donors, is known as the Bhinnashtakavarga of the 
Sun. 


The Sun’s Ashtakavarga. 
(48 bindus) 


Similarly the Bhinnashtakavarga tables of the Moon and 
other planets can be prepared. They are as follows :- 


SOX] 
NOX 
oT 


POS 


SOX) 
ue 


ASHTAKAVARGA 35 


wa wart weet ater eaves | 
SUC HUE CIEE blgakos SEOs 
feat araygE AT: 

er oa eo ee 
Ma Uta BT Bat Ae wT 

aa qeadt at GS Ma YRAAMTI Ro II 
qeerat car RS eat cer FATT AR I 


Slokas 18-21 - The Lagna is auspicious from:- 


(h) 


the Sun is the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses; 
the Moon in the 3rd, 6th,]0th,1 1th and]2th houses; 

Mars in the Ist, 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses; 

Mercury in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th houses 


Jupiter in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th and1 Ith 
houses; 


Venus in the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th and 9th houses' 
Saturn in the Ist, 3rd. 4th, 6th, 10th and 11th houses; and 
the Lagna in the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses. 


The total bindus received by the Lagna are 49 only. 


The Lagna's Ashtakavarga Table 


od 


KH OONDU EN 


—_—— 


36 wena: 


The Lagna’s Ashtakavarga 
(49 bindus} 


Notes - The use of Lagna Ashtakavarga :- 


It has been found that the LagnaAshtakavarga is used only 
for Avurdaya (longevity). The reason being that in the 
Bhinnashtakavargas of the several planets, the auspicious places 
from the Lagna have been taken into consideration and the sum 
of bindus received by each planet includes bindus contributed by 
the Lagna too. 


Again in the Lagna Ashtakavarga the auspicious positions 
given from the Lagna are the same in order and places, as those 
given under the various Bhinnashtakavargas. This is contrary to 
the conception accepted for the Ashtakavarga consideration of 
the planets for, the seven planets through their transits become 
capable of donating and receiving bindus, whereas the Lagna 
being fixed and having no tansit, is not supposed to receive 
bindus in the same sense as the planets. 


Some astrologers add the Lagna Ashtakavarga bindus 
again to (Wyarareaeat) the Samudavashtakavarga total of 337 
which is only a duplication of the Lagna bindus. If 337, the total 
for Samudayashtakavarga figure is divided by 12, the quotient 28 
represents the average for each bhava. All books mention good 
effects for any bhava when the bindus are 28 or above. This 
shows that the figure 28 is the turning point. If the Lagna 
Ashtakavarga figure is added to 337,the toal becomes 386 which 


ASHTAKA VARGA 37 


gives 32 as average for a bhava. No book has mentioned 32 as 
the tuning point. (See Verse 17 and Chap. XIV, Verse 7). 


Garrat teteeqantar: |) 

qatgama: wart feat: wt wareda 
hrearegé garayrere: qagarel 

Tega ynarat sarguraerer 
waar seo: Mea Prat BaP FR 1 


Sloka 22 - Rahu is auspicious from:- 


(a) 
(b) 
{c) 
(d) 
(ce) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 


the Sun in the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 8th and 10th houses: 
the Moon in thelst. 3rd. 5th,7th, 8th, 9th and 10th houses: 
Mars in the 2nd, 3rd, 5th and 12th houses: 

Mercury in the 2nd, 4th,7th, 8th and | 2th houses: 
Jupiter in thelst, 3rd, 4th, 6th and 8th houses: 

Venus in the 6th. 7th, 11th and 12th houses: 

Satum in the 3rd, 5th, 7th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses: and 


the Lagna in the 3rd, 4th, Sth. 9th and 12th houses. 
The total bindus received by Rahu are 43 only.’ 


Rahu's Ashtakavarga Table 


38 wena: 


Notes - Only Yavanacharva has mentioned about Rahu's 
Ashtakavarga (Ref. verivers, SifesearagE and valferriray). 
Since Rahu is a shadow planet (ascending node of the Moon) he 
has not been alloted ownership of any part in the zodiac. It may 
be for this reason that he is not taken into consideration in 
Samudayashtakavarga along with the 7 planets, nor is he given 
the lordship of any Kakshya. Ali the same, the Bhinnashtakavarga 
of Rahu may be used in predicting good and bad effects during 
his transit through the various bhavas. 


Rahu's Ashtakavarga 
(43 bindus) 


Fe Te 


Zz 


Ke 
7. 


CHAPTER Il 

TRIKONA & EKADHIPATYA SHODHANAS 
frart g wt wie Auftiecawarg | 
oe a a 

Pern: WIT | 
peg lage sR 
wary wat yer aeraat 7 waa 
wat Aatey As MAMTA IBY 


Slokas 1-3 - Trikonas (trines) are as follows :- 


1. Mesha, Simha and Dhanus are trine to one another ; 
2. Vrishabha, Kanya and Makara ., 5) oh 

3. Mithuna, Tula and Kumbha 
4. Kataka, Vrischika and Meena 


In one set of a triad whichever house contains ihe least 
number of bindus, that number should be subtracted from all the 
three houses. When one of the three houses is void of bindus, no 
reduction is to be made in thc other two houses. If the bindus are 
equal in: all the three houses, remove all. 


oF 


2 2° 


Notes - For example let the Mesha triad contain :- © 


(1) 4 3 ‘2 The Jeast of the three is 2. subtracting that 
2. 2. 2, from the three houses there remain 2 in 
2. 1.0  Mesha. 1 in Simha and O in Dhanus. 

(2) 4. 3. 3. Subtract 3 from all. which leaves 1. 0 and 0. 
303,03. 
I. 0. 0. : 

G) 3. 3 3. Subtract 3 from all. which leaves 0. 0 and 0. 
3. 3.3, 
0 0 0, 

(4) 4. 3: 0. Subtract 0 from all. there is no change. 
0. 0. 0 
4.3. 0 


40 eas: 


(5) 4, 0, 0, Here (a) according to Parasara no change is to be 
made. But (b) Mantresvara says, “Waveayl g werea aay” 
If two houses of a triad are without any bindu, remove the bindus 
in the third house also. It is a rare case to have. two houses 
without bindus in a planet's Ashtakavarga and much more so to 
have them in trine to one another. 

In the matter of Trikona-shodhana there are different schools of 
thought according to the interpretation given to ‘ferry a ae 
agea fry weraq’’ One school accepts the view that the 
minimum number should be taken away from all the three houses; 
_ while the other school says that the reduction should be carried on 
till, all the three houses contain bindus equal to the minimum. In 
this book the first method is adopted. 

The following charts show the Moon's Ashtakavarga (in the 
Standard Horoscope) figure before and after Trikona-shodhana 
according to both the views :- 


The Moon's Ashtakavarga (49) 


I Trikona-schodhana according 
to the first view :- 


ASHTAKAVARGA | 4] 


I Trikona-schodhana according 
to the second view :- 


de 
OX 


Preprrey wecufrgaectaeg sang aga 

a frgar ag a meat wade safe wdyagd!! 
aerart:- 

qs PRaseatnd Ay Perry a4 

aT wa wufery a wea A Be wey] 

vernh aet ae fy aear wd fener gat 

Notes. The author of Prasnamarga says that in one set of triad, 


if one/two houses contain no bindu, the bindus in the others/other 
house, should be eliminated. 


Ekadhipatya-Shodhana 
Ua Pratt deer wearearferaaat | 
aaa eal eter eT IY 11 
arr ae wraey wees | 
Weg wet ST Wears Hes 114 UI 


42 seni: 


wat we arate wrens | 


wes Weg Arar TaACT AT 1 1e 
saaMedg A ate: HTT | 
Santa Ta TH TTI ly II 
WAS Teas» wa ANETTETT | 
yeaa wea: yaE At TAG HAT IIS II 
Sloks 4-8 - ].After Trikonashodhana is over, Ekadhipatyashodhana 
is to be caried out. 
2. The wise man should make reduction only when there- 
are bindus in both the houses of a planet. 
‘Eg. Mesha, no planet, 2 bindus; \ No reduction is 
Vrischika, no planet, no bindu; to be made | 


3. If the two houses are without planets and have got 
different number of bindus, the smaller figure should be subtract- 
ed from both the houses. 


E.g. Mesha, no planet . Vrischika, no planet 
4 bindus 2 bindus 
Result 4-2 = 2 bindus 2-2 = 0 bindu 


4. If however, one of the houses has a planet and when the 
bindus in that’ are less than the other, the smaller figure should be 
deducted from the other only. 


E.g. Mesha having a planet Vrischika, no planet 
2 bindus {3 bindus 
Result 2. bindus, no change - 3-2 = 1 bindu 


5. In the above (rule 4) case, if the house having the planet 
has more bindus than the other house, then remove all the bindus 
from the other house. having no planet. 

E.g. Mesha having a planet Vrischika. no planet 
3 bindus 2 bindus 
Result 3 bindus. no change 2-2 = 0 bindu 


ASHTAKAVARGA 43 


6. If both the houses of a planet are occupied by planets, 
then no reduction is to be made. 


E.g. Mesha having a planet Vrischika having a planet 
3 bindus 1 bindu 
Result 3 bindus, no change 1 bindu, no change 


7. If both the houses of a planet are without planets and 
the bindus are equal, then remove all the bindus from both the 
houses. 


E.g. Mesha, no planet Vrischika, no planet 
3 bindus 3 bindus 
Result 3-3 = 0 bindu 3-3 = 0 bindu 


8. If bindus in both the houses of a planet are equal and 
one house alone is occupied by a planet, then remove bindus in 
the other house. 


E.g. Mesha having a planet Vrischika, no planct 
3 bindus 3 bindus. 
Result 3 bindus, no change 3-3 = 0 bindu 


9. The bindus in Kataka and Simha should be retained as 
they are. : 
Notes : Ekadhipatyashodhana means the reduction in respect of ° 
the two houses (rasis) owned by one common lord, e.g..Mesha 
and Vrischika of Mars, etc. 


According to the first view:- 


The Moon's Ashtakavarga 
after Trikonashodhana 


seat 


The Moon's Ashtakavarga 
after Ekadhjpatyashodhana 


psy 
> 


According to the second view :- 


The Moon's Ashtakavarga 
after Trikonashodhana 


The Moon's Ashtakavarga 
after Ekadhipatyashodhana 


ASHTAKAVARGA 45 


waar :- 
ardrd peat a fast aonfe— 
PART T HG RAM: | 
AeRPaayaTE TEEN 
wereprferrceah eters: ey: | | 
uid wee ahetea gar Yer | 
wos Vege W ard gen Tinfead wR (1 
fasnertevetrsrer | 
fracakrgafeea a =parftrar =prear facrar: (| 
wera ages aye TERA: | 
ad Prat oe gearcanfiaerer aa: Weer: | | 
Weta :- 
dahiaa ga wa wei Pea teeter 
adaatte garde wi wd gatea werd | 
Waren aden ged a dara 
=Irisd Fradisa fog a we wed Weal WrETd 11 
WTA AGS ALTA SATA ATT: 
Rrernfit aTrSeaaatcIesaT SMT | 
waa fafeert tenga areagcetferat- 
weenentehrerguaraa f Pesrea: 115 11 


Sloka 9 — After the two reductions are carried out, multiply the 
figures in Vrishabha and Simha by 10, those of Mithuna and 
Vrischika by 8, of Tula and Mesha by 7 of Kanya and Makara 
by 5 and those of the remaining rasis by their respective rasi 
numbers i.c. Kataka by 4, Dhanus by 9 etc. The sum of these 
products is known as Rasiguna Yoga or Rasipinda (uffive), If 
there are no bindus in any rasi, multiplication does not arise. 


Again multiply the figures of the houses occupied by the 
Sun, the Moon, Mercury and Satur by 5, that occupied by Mars' 
by 8, Jupiter by 10 and Venus by 7. The sum of these products 
is called Grahaguna Yoga or Grahapinda (wefts). If more than 
one planet is in one house, then the figures should individually be 


46 smepat 


multiplied by the respective multiplier of each planet. The sum of 
Rasipinda and Grahapinda is known as (aieafts) Shodhya or 
Shuddhapinda. The use of this Pinda is explained later on. 
Notes- In the Standard Horoscope in the Moon's Ashtakavarga 
Rasipinda is arrived at as under (according to the first view). 


Sign Bindu Multiplier Product 
‘Mithuana 3 =X 8 = 24 
Tula 1 x 7 = 7 
Makara 2 x 5 = 10 
Mesha 3 Xx 7 = 21 
Total = 62 


In the Moon's Ashtakavarga Grahapinda is arrived at as 
under :- , 


Planet Bindu Multiplier Product 
Moon 1 x 5 = 5 
Venus 1 KS 7 = 7 
Jupiter 1 x 10 = 10 
Satur 2 x 5 = 10 


The Moon's Shuddhapinda = 62+32=94 Total = 32 


Similarly Shuddhapindas of the remaining planets are 
calculated from their respective Ashtakavargas. 


Rasi Multipliers 
yells eels] aie /e| |e | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 


Graha Multipliers . 


5 |S 5 }10 


710 8 4 105 789 5 1 1 
war wae fay You: WANT! 

wet fe areata yarafs yon: aq | | 
5.5 8 5 107 § 


“gee son trait weqpheforag yer yereerrat | 
ERTAEE :- 


APrerrrepien wasters 
gfarraessh: waguisonfeart | 
SRNagIren fester 


2 


47 


48 seman: 


TefaiRe Fea: GR a arn || 

WITHA : 

fra: meafrarreateage Fait ya ale: 
area ad a wed fainter | 

fara wea gegetat Rrecwrt yore 
wen URMehbrarerpreereia: Yeti || 


Notes — In this verse the author has given in a very concise and 
simple form the rules to be followed for Trikona and 
Exadhipatyashodhanas as under :- 


1. In Trikonashodhana subtract the minimum figure out of the 
three houses of a triad irrespective of the figures in them. 


2. No reduction should be made when one house has no bindu. 
3. If the three figures in the three houses are equal, remove all. 


In the Ekadhipatyashodhana the same rules apply with exception 

that figures in the house occupied by a planet should not be 

changed. The definition of Shuddhapinda is given. 
DEFINITIONS 


The sum total of the bindus that remain in various bhavas after 
the two reductions is known as Shodhyavashishta (zhearafre), 
The sum of the products of bindus and the respective rasi 
multipliers is called Rasipinda @TRfFS). The sum of the products 
of the bindus and the respective planet multipliers is called 
Grahapinda. The sum of Rasipinda and Grahapinda is known as 
Shodhyapinda (gieafts), Shuddhapinda (efts) or Yogapinda. 
Mantresvara defines Shodhyapinda as “Gary: weastyrni 
weafis gf «ya. (Phaladeepika Ch. XXIV, Verse 3) 


It means that the sum of the bidus remaining after the two . 
reductions is called Shodhyapinda. This definition differs from 
that given by other standard authors. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 49 


The Sun's Ashtakavarga 


Planets 


Bhavas 
represented 
by rasis 
Bindu 
Trikona-Shodhana 


Ekadhipatya- 
Shodhana 


Planets 
Bhavas 
represented 
by rasis 
Bindu 
Trikona 
Shodhana 
Ekadhi- 
patya- 
Shodhana 


whearaftre = 9. uffts = 62; aefts = 32: shafts = 94: 


50 oe aa 
’ Mar's | Ma's Ashtakavargs | 


Planets 
Bhavas 
represented 
by rasis 


Bindus 


Trikona- 
Shodhana 
Ekadhi- 


patya- 
Shodhana 


= 10; uftfts = 88; aefts = 65; vhafts = 153; 


Planets 


Bhavas 

represented 
by rasis 
Bindu 


Trikona- 
Shodhana 


Ekadhi- 
patya- 
Shodhana 


= 13; wfefts = 117; weftts = 53: wheats = 170: 


ASHTAKAVARGA 


| Bhavas 


= 15, wife = 106; welts = 42; weaftts = 148, 


Planets 


Bhavas 


“| represented 


by rasis 
Bindus 
Trikona- 
Shodhana 
Ekadhi- 


patya- 
Shodhana 


Planets 


‘represented 
by rasis 
Bindu 


Tnkona- 
Shodhana 


Ekadhi- 
patya- 
Shodhana 


51 


Jupiter's Ashtakavarga 


Saturn's Ashtakavarga 
G19 

a y iY 
Bhavas 
] 5 7,8 191 represented 
by rasis 
Bindus 
Trikona- 
Shodhana 
Ekadhi- 


patya- 
Shodhana 


107: vefts = 46; seats = 153; 


= 12; uhifis = 


Lagna Ashtakavarga 


Bhavas 
represented 
by rasis 


Bindu 


Trikona- 
Shodhana 


Ekadhi- 
patya- 
Shodhana 


CHAPTER IV 
BHAVA AND BINDU PHALA  - 


et wtkeakaeaiareSrry | 

aetanatad a factrerrat fag: 11211 

St aed fat a wget qdtas | 

qe aqye Va Aghia VGH IR 

ae eee one 

wieergerare wget Freer 113 1 

Ware Sas Tea fag: | 

aT at Bit arene apart 1 ¥ 1 

APTI RIT THAT aT aes: | 

wghe gy <r wars ret aha: 14 1 

wifaest Trae Wa Tere | 

Veeder A WHET ETH | 1S 

Bed FT Vee WITT Wee | 

weer te a saaeary Paar tle 11 
Slokas 1-7 —From the Lagna one should consider the from of the 
body and of the different parts of the body. From the second 
bhava, truth, well bemg and wealth are considered. The third 
bhava, denotes voice, character, valour and brothers (sisters). 
The fourth bhava decides happiness, relations, residence and all 
about one's mother. From the fifth bhava innate disposition, broad 
otlook and learning are considered. Thc sixth bhava dnotes 
intemal enemies, sickness, etc. From the seventh bhava all about 
any (short) journey and the well-being of wife are known. The 
eighth bhava denotes mental troubles, diseases, death and destruc- 


tion. The ninth bhava decides about the fortune, the preceptor and 
religious aptitude. From the tenth bhava, devotion to duty, valour, 


54 semat: 


‘ brave action, knowledge of science, fame and preknowledge 
of things to come (both seen and unseen) are known. From the 
eleventh bhava are known opulence and aquisition of wealth. 
The twelfth bhava denotes expenses, sinful deeds, destruction 
of body and its causes.* 

we remarry Fraaararac | 

By ware Arar AAA BF: Ve UA 

then: fafera far fer fermen: | 

qerenaaetes frat yay: 118 

Prakasa Wages | 

attired ys: yaisht aearfarg | io Wt 

Waa: Areas SATHANA | AE 


Slokas 8-11-‘An intelligent person should consider about the 
12 bhavas accordingly. The bhava occupied by a malefic 
planet destroys the effects the things by the bhava. A benefic 
planet in a particular bhava accomplishes the things denoted 
by that bhava. If there are both malefics and benefics in a 
bhava, the person gets mixed effects so far as that bhava is 
concerned. The planets occupying the 6th, 8th and 12th 
bhavas give opposite results, i.e., if a malefic planet occupies 
that bhava, he gives good results but if a benefic planet 
“occupies it, he gives bad results. Even a malefic planet 
occupying a friend’s house or his own exaltation, gives good 
results; while a benefic planet occupying an inimical house 
or his own depression or in combust, becomes hastile. 


All the above points should be considered before deciding 
the effects of a particular bhava. 


werdlftet :- 
waist erect arora | 
AraNieyeacHaaTaeTs Ya | | 
ie yt aaah exert ate 
| Raraeag were: oe ararqagerard | | 
* Cf. Jataka-pataka-parijata, Chap. X1, Verse-13, 49; Chap. XII, Verse- 


1, 2, 59; Chap. XNE, Verses-1, 71; Chap. X1V, Verses-1, 48, 65; and 
Chap. XV, Verse-1, 67, 73. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 55 


areamararienrs faghra TI: Hey 
Waitgteamars I ATG AT Wah: bk A 
was ot BT waa g fakes 
waraenitaarst gerra Farrar | 123 U1 
pared a agataaheT F | 


ert sages a ghergartaqe: | 1ee 1 
ye faarenattr arrears areay | 


Sear Saar Beers Pea |S 
MATS MATT FAM FAT AT | 
waar ae eee Preray | 1s 1 
Slokas 12-16 - One should examine from : 
(a) the Sun - one’s valour, about father; 
(b) the Moon - mind, intelligence, self-satisfaction and 
about mother; 
(c) Mars - brothers (sisters), virtues, character, immov- 
able property; 
(d) Mercury - capacity to distinguish between good and 
bad, speech, religion, acquisition of knowledge; 


(e) Jupiter - Chhatra (insignia of honour), vehicles, fame, 
varieties of apparel, physical strength, intelligence, 
children and wealth; 


(f) Venus-semen, virile, marriage, sexual happiness, 
vehicles and features of a female; and 


(g) Saturn - longevity, means of livelihood, sorrow, 
distress, dreads, destruction of everything ‘and death. 


THAT HET SF QHATHT TTT AT | 
VAHHAAT: PTT WA: HAT 1 1 


ay aeaty wermmerareay | 
HEATH MATT TAT BG A ATT AS 


56 wena: 


Slokas 17-18 -Those planets whic hare weak in strength at the 
time of birth are unable to give the effects enumerated above. 
In the case of Saturn the effects are quite the reverse. 


After examining the Ashtakavarga strength one should 
decide the effects of each planet without which the Dasas 
cannot be fully judged. 
weer wae wet RR ard at arate wae | 
MEMS STATUTE heli AATATPSHTAT | NS 
ue fe aeareeat faRret ges ages wees | 
Wages qaer weyers qatfeanttaratd | to 11 


Sloka 19-20 - To determine the effect of any bhava in a 
horoscopeconsider that bhava as the Lagna; the twelve houses 
reckoned from that as, the Lagna, Dhana bhava, etc., should 
be examined and the effects declared thereafter. 


In the same manner theeffects for the father, the mother, 
the brother, the maternal uncle, the son, the husband (wife) 
and the servant are to be considered by taking the signs 
occupied by their respective Karakas, viz., the Sun, the Moon 
and other planets in the horoscope, as the Lagna. 


Ciaaaisraaet she fader gy AHH | 

WAAT TET YT Feta ATT Fat GAT 1 122 

‘gfe wad gaara woreist figetrak a rq | 

wt He Tea G aaa Sa Blt WeqMEraery: LIRR 

ut at afer Bs area FE HTT | 

UT STAY ATAIATAT ET RCH HAATATS: 11S 
‘Slokas 21-23 - From the house occupied by the Sun (in a 
petson’s horoscope) the appearance and stature of the father 
should be considered. The father’s prosperity and fame should 
be judged from the second house reckoned from the house 
occupied by the Sun. His brothers, character, etc. from the 
third house (from the Sun) and details about the father’s 
mother, father’s happiness should be divined from the 4th 


ASHTAKAVARGA 57 


house. The father’s intelligence and peace of mind should be 
judged from the 5th house (from the Sun); his afflictions, 
injury, enemies and sickness from the 6th house; his love and 
passion from the 7th; his sorrows, death and longevity should 
be considered from the 8th house (from the Sun). The father’s 
religious merit, auspiciousness and his father (i.e. native’s 
grandfather) should be looked into from the 9th house; his 
vocation from the 10th house; his gain and income from the 
11th and his expenditure or extravagance from the 12th house 
(from the Sun). All about the mother, brother, etc., should 
likewise be considered by taking the signs occupied by the 
respective Karakas, viz, the Moon, Mars etc., as the Lagna 
and the remaining signs in order as the relevant bhavas. 
TARTAR ST TA ATT ATG ATS I 
afeay ara res araarea Aatad wer aa STSTT RY I 


Sloka 24 - All information about the mother, brother, father, 
son etc. should be considered from the particular bhava and 
Karaka signified. The happiness and good effects indicated by 
a bhava are assured if that bhava, its lord and Karaka are 
all strong. 


at at: aera ns she wat tar | 
BT RRM AGA: Hater TeeT ATTA | RY LI 


Sloka 25 - Others say that the Sun in the 9th, the Moon in the 
4th, Mars in the 3rd, Jupiter in the Sth, Venus in the 7th and 
Saturn in the 8th bhava, generally cause distress to those 
bhavas (in the effects). 

Notes : Generally the Karaka of a bhava, when posited in that 
bhava, does not prosper the effects of the bhava concerned. 


Roftagenn aqdererrerraghcarsag Tate | 
Were YHA Peete ggasi AT MAATPT TRE 1 


Sloka 26- Bhavas represented by Mesha and other signs which 
contain 8 bindus (contributed by the 7 planets and the Lagna) 


58 wepat: 


in their individual Ashtakavargas become very strong and 
auspicious; bestow all prosperity. Bhavas having 5, 6 or 7 
bindus are also auspicious. Bhavas having 1, 2 or 3 bindus 
are not auspicious. ~ 

_ Notes : Here in the general effects of the bhavas having 
certain number of bindus are explained. 


weTart :- 

Pretarerga: IRN at UR: asa: ATT | 

FTIR: CH USAT: HATTA: || 
Tat wet watt amefagarr Garrarenaer afe ETAT: | 
wartiagganggqanennt Rareantstt wane ware 1 Re | 


Sloka 27 - Bhavas having 4 bindus produce mixed effect while 
those which do not contain a bindu cause death, censure and fear. 


The good and bad effects arising from the Sun and other 
planets when associated with 1, 2, etc. bindus in their indi- 
vidual Ashtakavargas are explained hereinafter. 


Notes : The previous verse and the first half of this verse 
show how to gauge and capacity of a bhava to give good or 
bad results. The later part of the verse and succeeding verses 
up to 31 show the effects of the planets associated with 1 to 
8 bindus in the bhavas occupied by them at birth. 


weralftar : 
tira hick ect 
mscretenanecaraeed IG] ATT FAT 1 | 
weft APTS aMATSAT SY a Sey: | 
FER HAA TTA TAHA TAT STATE | RS 


Sloka 28 - A planet associated with 1 bindu causes various 
kinds of diseases, sorrows, fears, roamings etc. One associ- 
ated with 2 bindus bindus produces mental agony, censure and 
deprivation of food through a King or a robber. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 59 


PRT TAH M AAT | 
GAGA AHA: MTA TH : AT ARS 1 


Sloka 29 - When there are 3 bindus there will be many 
troubles due to a roaming life, lean body and mind become 
afflicted; with 4 bindus comforts and discomforts, accession 
of wealth and expenditure of money and all other things equal, 
i.e., mixed effects will be experienced. 


EAA AGAAM ATTA AN TMA FoI MAAS: | 
Wahegney Aas Te aera SAM ATATSATET | 130 1 | 


Sloka 30 - When the bindus are 5, one will acquire fine 
apparel, fondle children, come into contact with virtuous 
people and acquire learning and wealth; with 6 bindus one will 
have ever fresh and attractive appearance, excelet character, 
victory in war, wealth, fame, strength and conveyance. 


AaaaeseG Mea AAT TATA 

FISH: TATA TSA THAT | Re 

Sloka 31 - A planet associated with 7 bindus brings honour by 
virtue of possession of horses and other conveyances, an 
army and immense wealth; with 8 bindus one acquires 
regal splendour with all its sevenfold adjuncts (namely lord- 
ship, minister, friends, treasures, domain, castles and armies). 


wafefagearakrad: aarat pace ery 
TNSTA AKAMA WALA: WPA WAT 1 13R 11 


Sloka 32 -A planet is always auspicious when he transits a 

bhava having 5S or more bindus in his own Ashtakavarga, if 

otherwise. (i.e., if the planet transits a bhava having 3 or less 

bindus) he is incapable of giving good results while transiting . 
that bhava and he definitely becomes oppressive when transiting 

through a bhava having no bindu. 


q wayne 2 waTel 


60 opeqrait: 


APTarTe :- 
ya a oar wan fegea wfdisya* 
BA Ac] Sa AER Be AAA | | 
PS MRA SATA WIT | 
Tat. vert fasrtareaght: erat Far 1133 1 
Wat: Tare uRecatray aq" | 
way: wat Mae, grated | 18¥ 1 
Sloka 33-34 - When any planet passes through a bhava, the 


effects are as follows according to the number of bindus in 
that bhava (in his Ashtakavarga) : 


1. misery; 5. great rejoicing; 
2. loss of wealth; 6. inflow of weaith; 
3. anguish; 7, all sorts of happiness; 
4. status quo; and 
8. perfection of everything 
APRaPTt :- 
afa GReraearai wet Tar woread* | 
aetrinreden Gel ad arors aT | | 
afe aReraerea wet Far worad*.| 
BET PRA FQ HTT A | 
 Worahay :- 


ar ara Affraelanisixwarare: wa: wets | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 61° 


Varfagrareg erfirarse aarfet Learfear | 
EWS aAe Wee Sea: 


WRATayeTATT ya aA AAT: 

tar meneafaearage Est AAT: 11341 

Sloka 35 - Find the difference between the bindus and the 
rekhas. When the bindus are in excess by 2, the effect is 
inflow of wealth; when 4, increase in confidence, acquisition 
of new friends; when 6, great valour, splendour, fame, etc., 
and when 8, one becomes a king or equal to a king with all 
its adjuncts. 


Note : When the rekhas are in excess, the results are reverse. 
TART :- 

WSs U BA: Bq ss: Wa: Bagel wala 

Ue ag: a Wa Adee Hoard Sng | 


areatrarenten: tata: | 
arena: wa ereafggar are 1 13s 1 
geet & a & Ararfarern: | 


3 wt quer Praafeterggar az 1 130 1 


Sloka 36-37 - All planets which are in their exaltation, own or 
friendly houses and are also possessed of strength by occupa- 
tion of a Kendra, Trikona, etc., invariably produce evil results 
if they are associated with very few bindus (less than 4). 


Conversely, all planets. occupying bad positions (i.e., 6th 
8th and 12th) or their debilitations or inimical signs in rasi or 
Navamsa, invariably produce good results if they are associ- 
ated with more bindus (5 or more). 


Note : All the planets, howsoever will placed, or otherwise 
powerful, produce malefic results if they are associated with 
3 or less bindus in their Bhinnashtakavargas. Conversely, all 
of them, howsoever adversely placed or, otherwise weak, 
always produce benefic results if they are associated with 5 or 


62 areaat: 


more bindus. Thus the capacity to produce good or bad 
results depends ‘more on the number of bindus a planet 
is associated with, than on any other factor. This is a special 
classification of strength according to the Ashtakavarga . 
“system. 


Tet a: YAS Ware: | 
wafa arktaarasarntts Mer traraeT RS 


Sloka 38 - When Saturn transits a bhava without a bindu in 
Ashtakavarga of the Sun, etc., he generally causes acute 
diseases, fear from enemies and afflictions to the father 
and other relations according to their Karakarva. 

Note : Saturn is the Karka for oneself. 

The Sun is the Karaka for the father. 

The Moon is the Karaka for the Mother. 

Mars is the Karaka forthe brothers and sisters. 
Mercury is the Karaka for the.relations and maternal uncle.. 
Jupiter is the Karaka for the children. : 
Venus is the Karaka for the wife. 


neat See alae Teer 
waraghe oT YaTsyAr ar Hea Faas 1 128 1 


Sloka 39 - Having prepared the Ashtakavarga of any planet 
note the bhavas which contain greater number of bindus. 
That planet (benefic or malefic) in his transit through these 
bhavas, gives good effects according to the bhava positions 
which they (these bhavas) bear from the house occupied by 
that planet at birth; in the bhavas with less number of bindus 
the transit of the said planet causes adverse results (to the 
native and to the Karaka presented by the planet). 


Note : In the Standard Horoscope the Sun’s representing the 
father) Ashtakavarga contains 6 bindus in the 7th bhava from 
him. When he passes through that bhava beneficial results 
connected with the 7th bhava will be experienced by the 
father. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 63 


Again, the 2nd bhava from the Sun contains 2 bindus. The 
father, therefore, will experience evil results pertaining to that 
bhava such as loss of money, family troubles, etc., during the 
trasit of the Sun. 
| Aftreresat taeagestrrakrray | 

feratgernct veneered AF | 1¥o 1 
Sloka 40 - After preparing the Ashtakavarga (of any planet) 
add up the bindus in Mesha, Simha and Dhanus. This 
represents the East. Similarly the total of bindus in Virshabha, 
Kanya and Makara represents the South; Mithuna, Tula and 
Kumbha the West and Karaka, Vrischika and Meena the 
North. That cardinal direction represented by the highest 
number of bindus amongst the four totals is very auspicious 
and that which has the least is inauspicious. 


Paserat Aaey qtrareTy | 
ATA HA AAT AAT A aT PTT 


Sloka 41 - After preparing the Ashtakavarga of any planet 
find out which bhava contains more bindus; the direction - 
denoted by that bhava according to Sthirachakra (Ream) is 
auspicious and vice versa. 

Notes : Cardinal directions represented by the rasis : 


The Rasichakra, i.e., Zodiac is designated as Chara 
(movable) and Sthira (fixed). : 

I. In the movable Zocdiac the rising sign always repre- 
sents the East, the 7th house the West, the 10th house the 
South and the 4th house the North. 


II. In the fixed Zodiac there are following two methods 
of reckoning directions : 
(I) The system applied by Varahamihira in Brihat-jataka 
(Ch. I. Sloka 11), viz, Mesha trine the East: Vrishbha trine’ 
the South; Mithuna trine the West and Karka trine the North. 
These directions are used when things of a general nature are 
considered. 


64 spear: 


(2) The system given in Prasnamarga :- 


wal Augean Peypry Reraz | 

ara oeekiel el Aca eR were | 
aera Fo Yorarel agarey rafterfar: | 

area yrrel eraTarar Fehr A || 
yfrapafa vr frercatre: Reraq | 


The signs Mesha and Vrishbha represent the East, Mithuna 
the South-East, Karka and Simha the South, Kanya the South- 
West, Tula and Vrichika the West, Dhanus the North-West, 
Makara and Kumbha the North and Meena the North-East. This 
is the same as the Chakra represented by the South Indian type 
of putting the horoscope (see page 11). 


This system of reckoning directions ts generally used for 
things of a permanent nature such as one's permanent property, 
lands, etc., for considereation of directions in one's own house, 
compound, locality (such as village or town) or completion of any 
undertaking of a long standing-or permanent nature (e.g., Chap. 
XII Verse 2 and3) 


anarefe waroar fefaanistranegs | 
BA: AISA A SATA AAT AAAS: LR | 


Sloka 42 - Find out the cardinal directions by these two 
methods; their use should be made according to the nature of 
the matters under the consideration the direction represented 
by the greater number of bindus is auspicious and one with 
less bindus is inauspicious. 


CHAPTER V 


PRASTARASHTAKAVARGA AND 
SARVACHANCHACHAKRA 


AURA TH ATTATAT APATAREAT ST VET: | 
TRA TOT ARATANS TESS ITT MTT | tt 


STRAT ATA CRT aT ATT AT: \ 
AAS AS HURTAT, HAT MiseegHeAeT: VIR E 
Slokas 1-2 - Draw a diagram with nine horizontal 
parallel lines from the East to the West at equal intervals. 
Similarly draw thirteen vertical parallel lines from the North to 
South. This gives 96 squares in eight rows exhibiting the Prastara 
form of Bhinnashtakavarga. 


The Lagna, the Moon Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn in their order are the lords of the 8 Kakshyas 
of a bhava from the South to the North. These planets produce 
good or bad results when transiting Kakshvas having bindus or 
without dindus. 


Notes : The Kakshya lords are mentioned in the order of their 
others round the Zodiac. Cf. Jataka-parljata, Chap. If verse 71, 


Ist line :- : 
Wael: HAT AeardsiarnasaKsT: | 


Draw the Prastarashtakavarga (WHIRTEHa) table and 
set therein the bindus for the Sun's Ashtakavarga in the Stan- 
dard Horoscope. Prastarashtakavarga is a spread-over or a 
detailed Bhinnashtakavarga. 


‘The auspicious places from the Sun are marked with 
bindus im the Sun's row beginnng with the bhava occupied by 
him, i., from Kanya. The auspicious places from Saturn are 
marked with bindus against Saturn's row beginning from Makara 
which he occupies. In this manner the remaining auspicious 
places are marked with bindus in their respective rows. 


66 wea: 


werelttar :- 
TRENT THT Mads F Te FATT | 
pampataercemrna fears there wesc | 
HATS 
CRISTATA: MTA A RTT 
Taare Prater: WTA A ATL | 
ATTA s- 
frifaratedaed PRR aren aH ages 
ASN UE: aptemraten: Rrechiscer Te | 
Tere: Hopet Temes APY HeTHAT | 
ATT: SH ITA T ATH, CAST FATT: | | 


Bhavas aglayg i 
represent q 
ed by rasis : 6 7 Uy iy d 2) 3] 47 5 
se folofel fe fol fof | fel 


Tt Pept er hl 
Tr CO 


Sun 


Venus | 


pee ie eal eel 
Neo 2 ae ad 


Mae 
Total 
bindus 5 2 4 2 2 4 6 8 4 4 4| 6 


= 
E 
Oo 
QoQ 


ASHTAKAVARGA 67 


Waa seat MTT epee | 

aed fargteat a aeed wet Fe: | | 
Notes : Parasarahora, Shambhu-horaprakasha and Manasagari give a 
different order for Kakshva lords. The order followed by them is as 
follows :- The Sun. Saturn. Jupiter. Venus, Mars. Mercury. the Moon 
and the Lagna. 


Be: AAAI T AMET BATS THAT TTT 
aeeratrana: Pua MTawaneeaay Kaye ETT |e | 


Sloka 3 - Prepare the Ashtakavargas of all the planets from their 
positions at the time of birth as per mules laid down. When planets 


BS [im 
aide 


SARVACHANCHACHAKRA 


3 LES a pS > Min 
alee aaeea fe & iy 
PL Heer eee & 
cee 


a 
Hg} 
fof 
Loy. 
oS 
CG 
Sac 
Rey. 
Se 
oe 
e 


Soap eG 


Os 
ore 
“tue 


ut 


eA EN phat 


tee 4 
a onal i 


ry, > 
eRe 
LIRR 
ee 

ae 

OX, 


Lets 
fell 
ie 
Lens 
Pee 
: mn 
a3 
ee 
S. 
CAS 
Peles 
ce 
lo aoe 
Be 
Bek 
je 


i 
Agta iSlara) 


a 
sh 
ig 
cr 
(27 7 
ay 
ex 
Re 


‘el 


a 

ae 

a 
¢ Sara 

VX e 

L bis oot 
rare 

fe! 

bislets 


ey wc 

Seen at ghee 
PEED ee Bal eSNG? 
3 WEE eee 
ER 


oy og BRE 
5. 5 bat 
SC 
S35 
SxS 
BS 
Se 

+ 


68 wepay: 


in their transits are ina rasi (or when that rasi is rising), month 
(period of the Sun's transit), bhava, etc., which contain the 
greatest number of bindus (in their individual Ashtakavargas) 
will prove auspicious. 


fart fara aenafafeaefatetare witaseat | 
aera aa PT HATHA AAT HATTA LY 
Sloka 4 - Others say that in order to ascertain the time of fruition 
of the effects of a bhava. in case it contains bindus, divide that 
bhava into 8 Kakshvas and find out which of them contain 


bindus. During the periods, the planet in question transits those 
Kakshyas (3°-45' each roughly) the effects take place. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope there are 4 bindus in the 
Lagna (Mithuna) which is. the 10th house from the Sun in his 
Ashtakavarga. It will be seen that these have been contributed by 
the Sun, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter while the remaining 3 planets 
and the Lagna have each contributed a rekha. Therefore the 
bindus arc placed in their respective Kakshyas in the Lagna 
house. 

When the Sun transits the Lagna bhava which is from 1*-!8'-39' 
to 2*-18°-39', he will give benefic results only during the four 
periods of the Kakshya divisions of the bhava, viz :- 

Ist 1*-22°-38' to 1*-26°-38' (Jupiter's Kakshya) 

2nd_1*-26°-38' to 2°-0°-37' (Mars' Kakshya) 

3rd 2°-0°-37' to 2'-4°-37' (The Sun's Kakshya) 

and lastly 2'-8°-8' to 2°-1!°-38' (Mercury's Kakshya) 

The remaining four Kakshyas will produce adverse re- 
sults. The Sun will give good or bad results in all the remaining 
bhavas during his transit through Kakshyas having bindus or 
rekhas. Similarly the good and bad effects due to the transits of 
the remaining planets should be judged from their respective 
Prastarashtakavargas. 

Kakshya divisions of a bhava :- 


It is convenient to divide a bhava in the following way. 
Divide into 4 equal parts the difference in degrees from 
Arambhasandhi (3m7rafe beginning) to Bhavamadhya (are - 


ASHTAKAVARGA 69 


the middlc part of that bhava) and similarly make 4 equal parts 
from Bhavamadhya to Bhavasandhi (i.e., end of the house). The 
reason is that by Bhavanmadhya, it is meant the exact middle of 
the bhava in the circle passing through that latitrude, to which the 
ecliptic circle is collated. It is said that the Dashamabhavamadhya 
(ara cusp of the 10th house) is the highest point. Natu- 
rally. in a circular Zodiac points on citherside of the cusp will be 
at a lower level. 


SARVACHANCHACHAKRA 


(Refer the attached Chart) :- 

The Sarvachanchachakra is a chart incorporating in it 
practically all the important details of the Ashtakavarga and the 
horoscope. 

The biggest circle represents the map of the Zodiac. It 
is divided into 12 bhavas according to the method followed in 
India (Method of Porphyry-Jatakapaddhati of Sharipati). The 
Sandhis of the 12 bhavas are given in signs. degrees and minutes 
at their proper places. Every bhava has a cusp. The portion from 
Bhavasandhi of a particular bhava to the cusp of that house is 
divided into four equal parts. Similarly, the portion between the 
cusp and the endofthe bhava is also divided into four equal parts. 
Thus a bhava is divided into eight parts known as Kakshyas. The 
beginning of the Kakshya is shown against it in signs, degrees 
and minutes. In the strip below the first (the biggest) circle the 
names of Kakshyalords are given in all the bhavas against the 
Kakshyas. In the Lagnabhava the English equivalents of the 
Kaskshya lords are marked. 


The positions of the planets are also indicated at their 
proper longitudes by arrows. This enables one to find out 
immediately the positions, in degrees and minutes, the Kakshyas, - 
the Shavas and the Zodiacal rasis of all the planets at birth. 


Below the second circle is the Sun's Ashtakavarga. The 
Sun's Pratarashtakavarga is given in a circular form as against 
the tabular one (refer page No.61). The bindus in the various 
bhavas are the same as shown in the tabular form. From the 
chart one can have a visual idea of the transit of the Sun and 


70 wena: 


the other planets through the various dhavas and their Kakshyas 
by which results can be judged on a collective basis. 


Below the third circle is the Moon's Prastarashtakavarga. 
Below the fourth circle is the Mars' Prastarashtakavarga. 
Below the fifth circle is the Mercury's Prastarashtakavarga. 
Below the sixth circle is the Jupiter's Prastarashtakavarga. 
Below the seventh circle is the Venus' Prastarashtakavarga. 
Below the eighth circle is the Saturn's Prastarashtakavarga. _ 


The portion below the ninth circle represents the 
Bhinashtakavarga figures in each bhava of the Sun, the Moon, 
etc., in order and bhava number is marked in Roman numerals 
the portion below the tenth circle represents the 
Samudayashtakavarga figure of the bindus in each bhava. The 
portion below the eleventh circle shows the Chalita or Bhava- 
kundali of the Standard Horoscope with planets therein. The 
portion belwo the twelfth circle. i.e., the smallest circle in the 
chart represents the Samudayashtakavarga figurs of rekhas 
(malefic points) which is derived by deducting the 
Samudayashtakavarga figures of the bindus from 56 (total 
Kakshyas in a bhava) 


This chart is important in the sense that it incorporates 
practically all the details of the Ashtakavarga such as Prastara. 
Bhinna, Samudaya, Kakshyas, etc.. in one chart and is named as 
Sarvachanchachakra (weétarae). For predicting results. the 
(Gochara) transits of all’ the planets could be easily watched. 
Moreover it is very convenient to find out the bhava positions of 
all the planets in transit from their original positions, from the 
Lagna or from one another from this chart. In short it is the best 
form of presenting the horoscope fitted to the Zodiac in a circular 
form. 


This Chakra can be prepared from the Sayana posi- 
tions also and the effects of the transits of the planets can 
be studied therefrom. For other purposes like Trikona and 
Ekadhipatya _reduction,etc., the Nirayana positions should 
be considered. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 71 


Average time taken by planets to transit a Kakshya of 


3°.45'. 

The Sun _— a7 day's. Mars —- 5 davs: 

The Moon = — 63 hrs.: Mercury — 2 Sdays 
Jupiter — | months: Satunm — fe months 
Venus — 3 days: Rahu (Ketu) — 2 | months 


afar, winere: warefagat aerwareray | 
oer aint: afargarsht wrrerrKay 1 1s tt 

Slokas 3 When a planet passes through a Kakshya which has 
a bindu in his ashtakavarga (in anv bhava) he produces 
beneficial effects: if he is passing through a Kakshya void of a 
bindu, there is no benefit. But, if at the time of passing through 
a Kakshya having a bindu, the planet is in his debilitation, inimical 
house or in combust, he causes great sorrow. 

ATATRTTE 

: TST YF TMT TAT TATE 
gard a fara eget we Fae: 1 

THT: YR: WATT THAT | 

wae PAI: Vea TFT | ED 

earet gar cer: Ta FepTATgT: | 

ANG AHAHTT VEY USAT FTAA |e || 

TST VATA: INAS HLTAT ale | 

errata afretaey fererer: 112 11 

TAA Treas BATT | 

wa fate Seat ceaferate ar aa 118 1 

SSeS TMT TAT: TT 

MRT: Yo: Wren UAT WATT | 120 1 | 


72 seat: 


Slokas 6-10 The capacity. of planets to. give good or bad 
effects are according to their natural (Naisargika) strength, the 
order of which is the Sun, the Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Mars, 
Mercury and Saturn. When any four planets in transit occupy 
Kakshvas having bindus there is acquisition of wealth ; with any 
5 planets honour, good health and gain of apparels; with any 6 
planets coronation and with 7 planets occupving Kakshyas having 
bindus acquisition of kingdom. 


Similarly when any four planets in transit occupy Kakshyas 
having no bindus there is loss of wealth; with any 5 planets 
sickness: with any 6 planets all sorts of misfortunes and with 7 
planets possible death. Death is a certainty if in the above case, 
one of the planets occupies a bhava which in his Ashtakavarga 
contains no bindu at all. Any other planet in that bhava may not 
cause death, but brings some calamity equivalent to dealth. 


When more than 3 planets are in Kakshyas having 
bindus they prove auspicious and give good results according to 
the nature of the bhavas and the rasis occupied by them. 


Notes: The maximum effect, out of the 35 types of 4 planets in 
Kakshvas having bindus, will be that of the Sun, the Moon, 
Jupiter and Venus and next in order that of the Sun, the Moon, 
Jupiter and Mars, etc., etc. 


ware: ae Pray wteasT AIST TT 1 1k 


Sloka 11 — Planets passing through houses having no bindus 
are inauspicious for the entire period of the transit, and when 
passing through houses having 8 bindus the entire period of 
transit produces good results. When there are 7 bindus and | 
rekha, find out which planet has contributed the rekha. When that 
planet (whose Ashtakavarga is under consideration) transits this 
Kakshya. he produces evil effects. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 3 


Similarly, if there is, only 1 bindu and 7 rekhas in a 
bhava, the Kakshya represented by the planet giving the bindu 
alone is productive of good results when transit of that planet 
(whose Ashtakavarga is considered) takes place. This is the rule 
to be followed for all the other bhavas. Another method of 
consideration given in the Vivarana” commentary is mentioned in 
the succeeding verses. 


OSs WreHTCaTaTT STAT ATTA LR 


Sloka 12 — In the Sun's Ashtakavarga, his transit through a 
Kakshya (in any bhava) where there is a bindu will produce good 
effects due to that as follows:- 

1. corresponding to the Karakatva (representer) of the 

things mentioned for the Sun; 

2. corresponding to the Moola (material) type of things 
in reckoning Dhatu (#1), Moola (4) and Jiva (sir): 
according to the bhava position from the planet (in 
the natal chart) which has donated the bindu; and 
4. according to the bhava position from the house 

occupied by the Sun at birth or according to the 
bhava occupied (from the Lagna) by the Sun at birth. 


WeaAny - (from Krishneeya) 
ertremttal é —_ 7 
wet Sagenat Aaae ereats | | 
Notes : One should consider things of Dhatu nature i.e., elemen- 


tal and primar: things such as minerals, metals and other 
inanimate wealth through the Moon, Mars, Saturn and Rahu. 


ed 


The Sun and Venus represent Moola nature of things 
suich as roots, grains, seeds, trees. etc. 


74 ema: 


Jupiter and Mercury represent living beings (Jiva) namely 
human beings, animals, birds, insects, etc. 


Rasis 
Dhatu Moola Jiva 
Mesha _ Vrishabha Mithuna 
Kataka Simha Kanya 
Tula Vrischika Dhanus 
Makara Kumbha Meena 
Nakshatras 
Dhatu - Moola Jiva 
Aswini Bharani Krittika 
Rohini Mrigasiras Ardra 
Punarvasu Pushya Aslesha, 
etc., etc., etc. 
US: Borat feast eerie 
SHTHTNT F TIAA WAT | 


Sicka 13 — When the Sun transits a Kakshya having no bindu 
(in his Ashtakavarga) all sorts of unfavourable things will happen 
according to (1) the Karakatva of things mentioned for the Sun; 
(2) Moola type of things; (3) the bhava position from the planet 

‘ which has not donated a bindu in his Kakshya; and (4) the bhava 
in which the Sun stands from the Lagna. 


Similary, the good and bad effects due to the transits of 
theMoon and other planets should be considered from their 
respective Prastarashtakavargas. 


We: 
yet aacaracsaypetsetearpeS Ty Lee 1 
Sloka 14 — When considering the Gochara effect of a planet, 
if the planet and the lord of the Kakshya which he is transiting 


ASHTAKAVARGA 75 


are both powerful, then the good effects according to the nature 
of the planet and the Kakshya lord will occur in abundance.If the 
planet is in his exaltation, in own house, friendly house or in an 
Upachaya (344) house, the effects will be complete. If the 
planet concerned is weak and is in debilitation, in inimical house 
or in an Anupachaya (aqv44) house, the effects will be very 
little. (This is explained in detail in the next verse by an example). 


a went ag farge: etary: 

meme Ta: Raat aaarsriaes | 
geet atta afte g avd wgaenits ag 
| eer Fans: waahs waaay aT | 124 | 


Sloka 15 — The Sun's representative things are to the nature 
appealing to the eye and shape, and for Saturn that which appeals 
to the touch (soft or rough). When the Sun transits a Kakshya © 
of Saturn in any bhava (having a bindu) and is auspicious, and if 
the donor (Saturn) and the Sun are both strong silk clothes which 
-are beautiful in appearance and soft to the touch will be obtained. 
If both are weak clothes ugly and coarse to the touch like black 
woollen rugs, etc., will be obtained. 


In this manner, all things must be taken into consideration 
in each planet's Ashtakavarga (for transit rcsults). 


wae: wer etter | 

qareamenataet FR TH A TET 1G 
Sloka 16 — Having explained the combined effects of a planet 
and the lord of the Kakshya through which he transits by an 


example the separate individual effects of each planet are 
‘enumerated (in the following seven chapters). 


CHAPTER VI 
ASHTAKAVARGA OF THE SUN 


qaemeg fargy ferfrrecrear faayhress 
AAA ZIH AAAI: TLY WATATALA: | 
TaSsaAT: Aaa: ANA UTS Pas 
Taree fas Mews SIT BAT BAT: 11k 1 
Sloka | — When the Sun in his Ashtakavarga transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus he results are as follows:- 


8 bindus great honour and wealth through Royal or 
official favours; 


Tl wonderful lustre and augmentation of 
happiness, 

6 y valour and prosperity, 

5, acquisition of wealth; 

4 4 mixed effects (good and bad); 

3) fatigue by travel; 

2 , sinful deeds; 

1 bindu fear of affliction: 

0 ,, death (or its equivalent troubles). 


Additional results given byother authors for the above :- 
8 bindus kingly glory with all its adjuncts, such as 
wealth, goodadvisers, etc.’ 


7 »» success through women, valour and _ respect 
from others; 

6 a, acquisition of wealth, fame, fine vehicles and 
success in undertakings; 

5: o, association with virtuous people and 
augmentation of wealth and learning; 

4, acquisition of wealth and immediate 


expenditure, mixed results due to happiness 
and misery; 


ASHTAKAVARGA 77 


fed 


wandering life, various kinds of bodily 
troubles and uneasiness of mind; 

Fe disapointments, royal displeasure, loss through 
theft,.calumny and difficulties. to get food etc.: 


| bindu — sickness, worries and miseries. 
The Sun's Ashtakavarga 


ade Catan MATT A TAT | 
ween fafetara aracragarerat 112 1 


Sloka 2 —- When the Sun transits a Kakshya having a bindu in 
his Ashtakavarga the defeat of one's enemies, attainment of 
one's ambitions unexpectedly (or by own effort). according to the 
nature of the bhava,etc., will take place. 


fay: H HSH WeTaTATHTTH: * | 
OMAHA ST FASTA 113 1 


Sloka 3 — While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu he (the 
Sun) will be the cause of untold miseries, great mental affliction 
and misfortune, sickness and sorrow; and one should expect 
displeasure from King (Government) without any cause during 
such transit. . 


Htsreaais agua are frarefes 
wa ee ot ypattfirea eer ars | 


28 arena: 


Rt at met wera 7 Rreraatet arat: 7 
FMT echt Ueheret HT HATA: 11S 1 
Sloka 4 — When the Sun transits a bhava containing many 
bindus in his Ashtakavarga, the solar month represented by that 
bhava is auspicious for marriages,etc. The same month brings him 
immediate good results for (a) any new work started, (b) journey 
to a distant place and (c) performance of meritorious and 
charitable deeds. Persons desirous of having good results should 
not undertake the above deeds when the Sun transits any bhava 
containing less bindus. (The bhavas containing 4 bindus give 
mixed results). 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Simha and Meena bhavas contain 
6 bindus each. The transits of the Sun through these two dbhavas will 
be auspicious for meritorious deeds. Tula, Dhanus and Makara bhavas 
contain 2 bindus each. The solar months represented by these 3 
bhavas should be avoided for undertaking the good deeds. 
WaT s- 
qatscat weet art Paced wie 1 
faaearaerate ras ater | 
HAS AGI FTA Aaa TL 
UaAe wet sen Ae wie AATSTT I 
warkrarat fer ecara: fea: Prat yfaatars a 
Rravdtarafrares gear Sars aah aT aT 1 1 
Sloka 5 — Add up the bindus in the bhavas representing the 
East (Mesha, Simha and Dhanus). Similarly add up bindus for 
the South,the West and the North. One should worship Shiva or 
serve the King in the direction which contains the maximum 
number of bindus out of the four totals. The same direction 
should be utilised to have Shiva Darsana, to see Arati (auspicious 
lamp) or for audience with sovereign. Place of worship of deities 
should be arranged in that direction in one's house. 
Notes : The cardinal directions according to Sthirachakra in the Stan- 
dard Horoscope:- 


(1) Method of Brihat-jataka - The sum of bindus in Mesha triad 
is 13; in Vrishabha triad 11; in Mithuna triad 10 and in Karka triad 14. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 79 


The Karka triad contains the maximum number of bindus which repre- 
sents the North. 

(2) Method of Prasnamarga - Simha and Meena contain 6 
bindus each which represent the South and the North-East 
respectively. 


N . 

arranatiger ay gy sre Teetare ate | 

Hreatsent fearer wry yut Heat fects afe 

wary Flas ae FA: aeTETATASTM: 11E 11 
Sloka 6 — Find out separately for each group the sum total of 
the bindus in the four bhavas, viz., (1) the house occupied by 
the Sun and the consecutive threc bhavas thereafter; (2) the fifth 
house from him and the three following it and (3) the ninth house 
from him and the remaining three houses. If the number of 
bindus in the first group is the maximum, all auspicious deeds 
should be undertaken in the first part of the day for good results; 
if the second group contains the maximum,the middle part of the 
day should be chosen for success; if the third group has the 
maximum. the last part of the day will be good. The portion of 
the day’ corresponding to the group containing the lowest number 
of bindus should be avoided for all auspicious work. 
Notes : By day is meant the period from sunnse to sunset. 

In the Standard Horoscope :- 


{a) First part 5+2+4+2 = 
(b) Second part 24+44645=17 = 48 
(c) Third part 44+4+446 = 18 


The third part of the day contains the maximum number of bindus, © 
hence the period between the afternoon and the sunset is the 
most propitious time for success in any undertaking. 


wrt re ferat fetraat are: SarTGMnfag_a a WA 
arifefaegafeareat fetst wteasear Pont 
a al 


Sloka 7 —— When the Sun is in the Lagna which is his inimical 
or debilitation house and is associated with 3 or 2 bindus, the 


80 separ: 


person bom’ will be sickly; while the Sun associated with 5 
ormore bindus in the Lagna which is his exaltation or own house, 
the person bom becornes a King endowed with long life. 
Sabra eat wees | 
SHANA HY ATT AT THAT A: 11S 1 
Sloka 8 — When the Sun, associated with 6, 5, Jor 8 bindus, 
occupies a Kendra or Trikona position, the native or his father 
will meet with death in 22nd,35th, 30th or 36th year respectively 
of the native. 
Notes :- Devakeralam goes a little further and says that in the same 
circumstances the perosn or his father will meet with an accidental or 
immediate death, i.e., by fire or by a fall from a mountain or in a 
cemetery, etc. 


meratrecargant akat Veritset | 

APT SATS: AH eat ATTA USAT TAT: 118 1 
Sloka 9 — When the Sun, in conjunction with the Moon, Saturn 
and Mercury, is in a Kendra at birth and that bhava has 2 net 
bindus, i.e., after both the reductions, persons learned in Astrol- 


ogy say that the father of the native will have immense admin- 
istrative power and fame ten years after the native's birth. 


Sloka 10 — A person born having Rahu, Satum or Mars in the 
4th house from the Sun, will be the cause of his father's early 
death provided that house (4th house from the Sun) is not 
aspected either by Jupiter or Venus. 


TAT ART GOTTA OTe TTT Ae 

Paar Tear Ha ATT aTTATT 1 1 

SMT RAHAT astra | 
Slokas 11- (1-1/2 — When Satum transits the 9th house from 
the Lagna or the Moon, the demise of one's parents may be 
predicted, if he (Saturn) is aspected by or associated with a 


malefic planet and also the Dasa and Antardasa at that time 
indicate the same. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 8] 


wrargasestteremar a freer vez 
FoMAeMA YF ACATATT AAA: 1123 11 


Slokas 12-13 — The demise of the father may oceur 
also during the Dasa of the planet who is the lord of the rasi 
occupied by the lord of the 4th house from the Lagna, or it may 
happen probably during the Dasa of the lord of the 4th house. 

Devakeralam and other works:- 

1. When the Sun is in a Kendra and even when that is 
a friendly house, associated with 3, 4 or 5 bindus, the father of 
the native will meet with death or suffer afflictions in thel 7th 
year of the native. 

2. When the Sun is in the 5thor 9th bhava, the father of 
the person will be afflicted by misfortune at the age (of the 
person) represented by the number of bindus in that house in the 
Samudayashtakavarga. 

3. If the Sun is in the 2nd or 5th house associated with 
3 bindus and Rahu is in 9th, the person will be bereft of his 
father in his 5th year of age. 

4. Evil effects to the person, his father, mother or 
brother have to be predicted when Saturn, the Sun, theMoon or 
Mars is respectively in the 5th house from the Lagna, at the time 
of birth. 

5. The person will surely lose his father in childhood 
when the Sun is in the 5th house with | or 2 bindus and the birth 
of the child is in (1) Ist quarter of Moola: (2)2nd or 3rd quarter 
of Revati or Aswini and (3) the 4th quarter of Aslesha or 
Jveshta. 
6.-If the Sun is in the 3rd house with 3 or 4 dindus and 
a malefie planet is in the 9th house, the father of the native will ° 
depart from this world within 20 vears of the native's age. 

7. When the Sun is in the 6th house with 4 bindus and 
is aspected by or associated with Jupiter, the person loses his 
father within 25 vears of his age. 

8. When Jupiter is in a Kendra from the Sun. and (1) is 
at the same time in a Kendra from the Lagna, or (2) is in his own 
house. or in the middle of the bhava.and is associated with 3 to 


82 arena: 


7 bindus (in the Sun's Ashtakavarga), the person bom will be the 
owner of vast estates: if a Brahmin. he will be conducting 
sacrifices or be a minister. 

9. When the Sun is in the 8th house with 3 to 7 bindus 
the effects are very little. 

10. After the two reductions, if the Sun has 3 bindus and 
is posited in the 3rd, 6th or {1th bhava,that bhava prospers well 
according to the strength of the bhava and the Sun (Shadvarga 
Bala): if the bixdus are | or 2 only, the effect is much diminished 
whichever the bhava may be. 

11. The number of brothers and sisters of the father can 
be ascertained from the number of bindus in the 9th house from 
the Sun (in a native's horoscope). Bindus donated by male 
planets indicate brothers and the rest sisters. 

Shodhyapinda and other catculations. 


ye Me TAA: TANS BA 

are ag fireqatrad dey senha | 
AAAS aT SAT Ta aTAes ara 

WM aT ay aradtaghat we: Gays: ev 


Sloka 14 — Multiply the Shuddhapinda of the Sun by the 
number of bindus in the 9th house from the Sun before both the 
reductions and divide the product by 27. The remainder reckoned 
from Aswini, gives the asterism which brings about the dealth of 
the father when Saturn passes through it, or it may happen when 
Saturn passes through the asterism as reckoned from his radical 
asterism (the asterism of Satur at birth). 

Notes : Some astrologers are of opinion that counting of an 
asterism should be done from Aswini for a person born in the 
bright half. and from Dhanishta for one born in the dark half of the 
Moon. In the Standard Horoscope the Sun's Shuddhapinda is 204 
and the number of bindus in the 9th house from the Sun (before 
the reductions) is 4. The product is 204 x 4= 816. Dividing by 27. the 
remainder is 6. 

1. Counting from Aswini the 6th asterism is Ardra. 


De 4s3 + Saturn's asterism(Sravana) the 6th is Revati. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 83 


Therefore. when Satum transits any one of the above two 
asterisms the death of the father may take place. 


When there is no bindu in the 9th house from the Sun, 
take the Shuddhapinda figure itself as the product. In case of 
zero remainder take 27 as the remainder. These two rules hold 
good in all cases of multiplications and remainders for the 
Ashtakavarga calculations. 


TURN :- 
afcaserat a Pforesrsraity | 
solearer Tae UR: Ag7s FTL 
Tae i esery 


aatisrgd as aed a aS: | 

ae ae aa ae sae RRR | 

afer, are gece vada + aera 11 

aaa af Prat Rgeatst aT 

wee gen ae ey BTA 
Breve werta at waa aa Vt MEAT 
aaah ret: waenay | 
fre aaa Sacre Ear Ft: Prey 
SATA AT HATHA AT ATA ATT 1124 1 


Sloka 15 — Add up the bindus in the Sun's Ashtakavarga that 
remain after the two reductions (atearafre), but before the 
multiplications. Multiply this total by the number of bindus that 
remain after the reductionsin the 9th house from the Sun and 
divide the product by 27. If there are no bindus in that house. 
then no multiplication is necessary: take the Sum of dbindus as it 
is. for division. The remainder counted from Aswini shows the 
asterism which when transited by Satum may bring about the 
death of the father. 


Notes : \n the Standard Horoscope the sum of the bindus after 
the two reductions (Shodhyavashista ) is 16 and there are 2 
bindys in the 9th house from the Sun (after the reductions). 


The product is 32. Dividing by 27. the remainder is 5. 


84 srepeant: 


Counting from Aswini the Sth asterism is Mrigasiras and 
Satum's transit through it may bring about the dealth of the 
father of the native. 


Ua qatar gaat weak: | 
Wreat Tat Heras srarsay: Pear 1 WE 


Sloka 16 — So far, the method of finding out the asterism in 
relation to the Sun's Ashtakavarga for deciding the time which 
may bring about the death of the father of the native during 
Saturn's transit of that asterism, has been explained. It is, 
however, necessary to find out the simultaneous positions of the 
Sun and Jupiter. 


Notes : In the previous verses it has been explained how the 
transit of Saturn through a particular asterism may bring about 
the death of the native's father. If this was the only condition it 
will be found that in almost all cases a native will lose his father 
before the age of 30. This is not, however,tme as one comes 
across several cases where the father of a native lives much 
longer. In fact the last line of the above verse itself suggests that 
there are other conditions which have to be satisfied to 
determine the time of the death of the father. These are the 
simultaneous transits of the Sun and Jupiter (See the following 
stanza). If these additional conditions are not satisfied and Saturn 
alone-is transiting that asterism, it should be inferred that the 
father or a similar elderly paternal relative of the native will 
suffer from severe sickness or some quarrels with the father or 
the like will take place. 


The above principle should invariably be borne in mind in all 
cases while predicting the demise of the other relatives of the native 
from the Ashtakavargas of the planets concerned according to their 
Karakatva. 


epareaetrare Prvoreaparearaten ATH: 1 Re UA 


ASHTAKAVARGA 85 


Sloka 17 — Multiply the Shuddhapinda of the Sun by the number 
of bindus (before the reductions) in the 7th house from the 
position of Jupiter in the Sun's Ashtakavarga, and divide the 
product by 27. The remainder reckoned from Aswini is the 
asterism which when transited by Jupiter brings about the death 
of the father. Similarly, multiply the Shuddhapinda of the Sun by 
the number of bindus in the 7th house from the Sun (bcforc the 
redcutions), and divide the product by 27. Remainder is the 
asterism from Aswini through which the Sun passes at the time 
of the father's death. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the 7th house from Jupiter 
has 5 bindus in the Sun's Ashtakavarga. The product is 
204 x 5 = 1020. Dividing by 27, the remainder is 21 which when 
counted from Aswini gives Uttarshadha for Jupiter's transit. 


The 7th house from the Sun has 6 dbindus. The product 
is. 1224 which when divided by 27 gives 9 as the remainder. 
Counting from Aswini, Aslesha is the asterism. So at the time 
when Saturn passes through the asterism calculated previously, 
Jupiter should transit Uttarashadha and the Sun Aslesha to bring 
about the dealth of the father. 


Qetaeatet aya At Sa | 

TATA TAT ASAT |S 
Sloka 18 — The month when one's own death may happen can 
be found out from the Sun's Ashtakavarga. Similarly, the pesi- | 
tions of Saturn,Jupiter and the Sun calculated from the Moon’s 
Ashtakavarga will determine the time of the death of the native's 
mother. 


deoren: sireaftus <arearnccataer Pare | 

fre weg Aurates wafer HaHa TT: 1188 1 
Sloka 19 — Multiply by Shodhvapinda of the Sun by the number 
of bindus (before the reductions) in the 8th honse from the Sunn 
and divide the product by 12. The remainder reckoned from 


Mesha shows the rasi (bhava) which when transited by the Sun 
brings about one’s own death. 


86 Wena: 


Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the 8th house from the Sun 
has 5 bindus. The product is 204 x 5 = 1020. Dividing by 12, the | 
remainder is 0, therefore 12 is the remainder. Counting from the 
Mesha house the 12th is the Meena house. When the Sun 
transits this-house, the death of the native may take place. 


TOMT s- 
atten fies ee AT HAG 
Bremitgareds Aone THC TA: | 
aera ait Parciaaremes® a1 1 
Bete Heresy TTT ATEHT AA: | 


Weare :- 

aie Res aie Tas aaa 

Baa RASTA Tia aT 1 

aferarma ast aot aa Per 

wd wer aatoi PaaaRAraR: 11 
Notes : Both Parasara and Mantresvara imply by ®AM4 the 
bindus in the 8th house from the Lagna and add further that the 
trine positions of the rasi as calculated, also should be taken into 
account for the father's death. 


CHAPTER VII 


’ ASHTAKAVARGA OF THE MOON 

waranty icrariyeel Terra Ta: 
wratemeTy gheratehts aaTeareae: 

amt wager: Rarincaersseniargery lt: 
WAM RAT ATH eH HATTA 11 HA 


Slokas | — When the Moon in her Ashtakavarga transits 
bhavas containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows:- 


8 


Nw & tn 


bindus 


n 


» 


bindu 


” 


all sorts of comforts, splendour, grace and 
acquirement of many friends; 


acquisition of fine apparels, tasty and rich 
food, perfumes and festive occasions; 


gift of Mantras (initiation), contact 
with virtuous Brahmins: 


moral courage: 


’ neither being happy nor sorrowful: 


discord with relations and friends: 

quarrels on acount of wife or wealth 
(property), 

unexpected and unavoidable troubles: 

sorrow, anxiety, death, etc. 


Additional results given by other authors for the above:- 


8 


7 
6 
5 
4 


bindus 


2 
» 
” 


” 


fame: 

general activity; 

help from elder brothers; 
contentment and well-being; 
happiness; 


2. Barat 2. wWaisers Rad 


88 wena: 
3 bindu —_—rancour from others; 


2 5 separation from friends and relations, loss 
of wealth; 

| bindu _— danger; 

0 , " unexpected death 


The Moon's Ashtakavarga. 


SEX EESERV 


OX Ls Pe | 


Safe MET s TATTONTT TY * | 

ae MyM Bra arseaTT 11R 
Slokas 2 — When the Moon transits a Kakshya having a bindu 
in her Ashtakavarga one gets good clothes, ormaments and 


decorations; is recognised by people of high status and has 
achievement of aims (#4) expeditiously. 


fag: seas Aa wee Ae: ae | 
Bearcats Pret aererrareqarea 113 1 
Sloka 3 - While transiting a Kakshya void of a bindu the effects 


are evil results,quarrels with enemies, frequent bad dreams and 
loss of money. 


viaisireeat aguas afro ais. 
dard at gateracafinnd wretnf ary | 
woireretgarar gafadht afepate: saat at 
FRAGA THA Feats Pact awe TAIT: LI 


ASHTAKAVARGA 89 


. Sloka 4 — When the Moon transits a bhava containing the 
highest number of bindus in her Ashtakavarga, tonsure and other 
similar ceremonies pertaining to the native should be performed. 
- All desired work should be commenced at this time (for success). 
One's prosperity is increased through persons such as wife 
(husband), king, attendant, servant, pupil, preceptor or friend, born 
in a rasi (represented by a bhava) which contains the full (the 
maximum) number of bindus in the Moon's Ashtakavarga of the 
native. 
weather :- 
Weegee: yaaa mareaat Pagaa 
wea Tees ugh. seas fateh gat stor 
Wier sarah Mae | 
wet aortas a VAR STK I 
Sloka 5 — It is very auspicious for the native to visit or have 
first sight of persons born with the Moon in a_ bhava containing 
the maximum (8) bindus in the Moon's Ashtakavarga. Also, a 
gift of clothes, etc., to such persons will undoubtedly bring him 
prosperity. 
arate at gH a Gate 
wees frat ane f erty | 
PMT ASAT ATATAR TT 
wrafscreratte we ree Ie 
Sloka 6 —- Whem the Moon transits a bhava void of a bindu. 
one should not perform any auspicious work because all functions 
undertaken then, will end in failure. Even contact or association 
with persons having their Moon in the bhavas which contain the 
least number of bindus (in the native's Moon's Ashtakavarga). 
even first book (visit) at or from them in the morning will result 
.in great disaster. 
Notes : When there is no bhava void of a bindu in the Moon's 


Ashtakavarga, one should take a bhava having the least number of 
“bindus. : 


are 


90 orenal: 


RT Wa eT Herhrarenacregaeatct I Se | 
git a ust a fesite eat eaeorerfeee TeaeTAETA | I 1 
Sloka 7 — Water collected from tanks, wells, etc. situated in the | 
direction represented by the bhava having the maximum bindus- 
(in the Moon's Ashtakavarga) will be auspicious for bathing and 
drinking purposes. The Goddess Durga (Durga Temple) and the 
queen (residing) in this direction, should be worshipped and 
served. All the above will prove inauspicious, if they are in the 
direction, of the bhava having the least number of bindus. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the cardial directions are (1) the East 
and the North (Brihat-Jataka); (2) the East (Prasnamarga). 

Want atrmakrareat wets 

Are UR eHayS HAP TATTTATE: | 

aeRTeRS MR TTT Seat 

aafaseaefe wor efiaerat a1 ic 11 
Sloka 8 — Note the bhava void of bindus in the Ashtakavargas 
of the Sun and the Moon. When the Sun transits that bhava, the 
solar month. i.e., the period of transit of the Sun, should be 
avoided for all auspicious work. Similarly, when the Moon transits 
such a bhava (in her Ashtakavarga) that period also should be 
avoided. The Moon in the Lagna associated with 1, 2 or 3 
bindus, will make the person slothful and suffer from pulmonary 
disease. If, in the above case, the Moon is in conjunction with 2 


4 


or 3 plancts, the person will meet with death in his 37th year. 
Sarees Wass Arak aferertaery | 
fa-sfet ar ate a Pafast wersarst saat ae: 118 11 
Sloka 9 — Persons leamed in astrology say that when the Moon 
occupies a Kendra, a Trikona or the |Ith house and is at the 
same time in her depression or inimical house devoid of anv 


Kalas (i.e. waning Moon) and associated with 2 or 3 bindus, the 
effects of such a bhava become extinct. 


—.! Tt 
are fast ange afe wraafe: | 


ASHTAKAVARGA , 9] 


ferred af dace g wa 
faaaylataeayael ACHT: | 10 11 


Sloka 10 — If the Moon with full strength (exalation, own house _ 
or waxing) is in a Trikona, a Kendra or the 11th house and is | 
associated with 4 or more dindus, that bhava prospers well. The 
Moon in a Kendra position associated with 8 bindus makes the 
persons eminent for their learning, fame wealth, strength and 
leadership. 


WReagey Aig: WeareHTARRTAT | 
arent wes a eras Pat e211 
waa oer yaar area | 
RTH TTA aTAaG FINTT: 1122 1 | 
HATTA ATA THA ATA ATT: 1123 LI 
Slokas 11-13 — One should consider about the mother, building 
(residence), village (or city) from the 4th house from the Moon. 
When the Moon transits a rasi void of a bindu in her Ashtakavarga, 
one should avoid that asterism (and rasi) for celebrating anv 
auspicious event. 

Note the asterism occupied by the lord of the 8th house 
from the Moon. When she, i.é., the Moon in her transit arrives 
in that asterism or its trine ones, one will invariably undergo 
useless exertion and will suffer from disease and misery. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Venus the lord of the 8th 
house from the Moon occupies Swati. 


at at ATRIA | 

a Part ates HreveaTg 11S 

aout ert pepeareraash ar 

ATTA Be PHT PTT 11s 1 

aighfanrreht fafettermaa: fig: | 

fagat argherarat wrerate waerad 112% 11 
Slokas 14-16 — lf in the natal chart. the 4th house from the 
Lagna or the Moon is occupied or aspected by Mars or Saturn 

2. aa 


Na) 


92 : arepart: 


and the time is bad as calculated previously (reckoned by Dasa 
’ order) the death of the mother may take place. If the mother is 
already dead, the person's death may take place even though he 
has gone to a foreign place. 


If in a horoscope Mars is in the 4th or the 8th house from 
the Moon and the Sun is in the 5th or the 9th house from the 
Moon, separation from the mother takes place. If the same 
positions of Mars and the Sun are from the Lagna, separation 
from the father takes place. Thus, one should consider matters 
regarding the father and the mother from the Lagna and the 
Moon repectively. 

POM TAT SHAT HATH WT | 

FRAT THT YS RN TAMTIT HAT: |e tt 
Slock 17 — If the groom's Janmarasi is that one which in the 
bride's Ashtakavarga of the Moon has the maximum binds, 
there is happiness and prosperity (after marriage). Similarly, the 
wife's Janmarasi should be the one which has the maximum 
bindus in the groom's Ashtakavarga of the Moon 


wera: 
Sealer peraaaes Ta TIT | 

Geta natarhtawsrer ara rer 

areata jessy Reve fasrarfeeq bee tt 
Sloka 18 — It is even more auspicious (than that given in the 
preceding verse) ta have the Janmarasi of the bride as that one 
which in the groom's horoscope contains a bindu of the planet 


who is the lord of the Kakshya occupied by the Moon while 
considering thc Ashtakavarga of the Moon. 


Similarly. the groom's Janmarasi should satisf¥ the same 
condition in the bride's horoscope. 


Notes : 1t may so happen that the rasi containing the maximum number 
of hindus (verse No. 17) may not have a bindu contributed by the 
Moon's Kakshvya lord. in which case it is better to have the next best 
rasi which has a bindu of the said lord. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 93 


eet! reat wah ake Pasay | 
yas faerecnererat: wearer Hert ATT 1 12S 1 


‘loka 19 - It is very auspicious to have the groom's Moon in 
a Kakshva in any bhava (rasi) which contains a bindu in the 
Moon's Ashtakavarga of the bride and similarly to have the 
bride's Moon in a Kakshya in any bhava which has a bindu in the 
Ashtakavarga of the Moon in the groom's horoscope. This is 
known as Prastara (distributive selction). 


Notes : Note the Moon's longitude in the groom's horoscope. 
Find out in which Kakshya this position falls. in the bride's 
horoscope. If there is a bindu in that Kakshva in her Moon's 

’ Ashtakavarga it is auspicious. Similarly, observe in the groom's 

horoscope the position of the bride's Moon. 

In the Standard Horoscope the position of the Moon is 
68-13°-34", It falls in the Kakshyva of Jupiter in the wife's 
horoscope. There is a bindu in her Moon's Ashtakavarga. 

The wife's Moon (65-29°-46') falls in a Kakshva of the 
Sun in the native's horoscope which has a bindu in his Moon's 
Ashtakavarga. 

PRET THAT AAT | 
aren rerareretaesr A YAT TT: 1 Ro | 
Sloka 20 - In the Moon's Ashtakavarga, the house occupied by 
the lord of the Kakshva in which the Moon is posited or the 
house in rasi or Navamsa occupied’ by the lord of the Lagna 
should be the Janmarasi of the wife for a prosperous life. 

Devakeralam and other works:- 

1. The Moon with I. 2 or 3 bindus in the Lagna causes 
Catarrh or Asthma. 

- 2. The person would have lost his mother in infancy itself: if 
the Moon is in the 7th, 8th or 12th house from the Lagna 
with few dbindus in her Ashtakavarga. In the above case if 
the mother does not die. she may suffer from severe illness 
during the early vears of the child. 


2. Hela: 


O4 areal: 


When the Moon is in a Kendra or the 12th house associated 
with | to 3 bindus only, and malefics are in the 4th house, 
the native will lose his mother in his 6th vear. 


Loe) 


4. When the Moon is in the Lagna associated with | or 2 
bindus only, there is danger for the person and possibility of 
the death of the mother. If, in addition,malefic planets are in 
the 4th house from the Moon (i.e., the Lagna) the mother 
dies in his 36th vear of life. 


5. Inthe Ashtakavarga of the Moon, if there are 1,2 or 3 binus 
(after the reductions) in the Lagna with the Moon in it, the 
person meets with an injury by weapons or poisons. or there 
is a possibility of the death of his mother. 


6. After the reduction. if the Moon (in whichever bhava she 
may be) has 5 or more bindus, then that bhava prospers 
during the Dasa of the lord of that bhava. 


7. The number of brothers and sisters of the mother can be 
ascertained from the number of bindus in the 4th house 
from the Moon. Bindus donated by ia planets indicate 
brothers and the rest sisters. 


siren’ gare | 
SANT AT sy Aearacashat ALTA: 1122 1 

Sloka 21 - Multiply the Moon's Shodhyapinda by the number of 
bindus in the 4th house(before the reductions) from the Moon 
and divide the product by 27. The remainder reckoned from 
Aswini shows the asterism which when transitted by Satur. 
brings about the death of the mother. 

Notes: In the Standard Horoscope the Moon's Shodhyapinda 94 x 4 


(bindus in the 4th house from the Moon before the reductions) gives 
product 376. Dividing by 27. the remainder is 25 which:- 


!. counted from Aswini gives Purvabhadrapada: 
2. 5 a Saturn's asterism (Sravana) gives Moola. 


Saturn's transit through any one of the above two asterisms mav 
bring about the death of the mother. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 95 


wean asa wa sae qher a atictar festa: | 
wareain waa shieaageyar a featrateaay: 1122 11 


Sloka 22 — As explained in the Sun's Ashtakavarga. in order to 
find the time of death of a native's father. calculations are also 
required to be made from the positions of Jupiter and the Sun. 
In a similar way calculations should be made in respect of the 
Moon's Ashtakavarga for the positions of Jupiter and the Sun to 
ascertain the time of the mother's death. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope to find Jupiter's 
position : Multiply 94 by 7 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter) 
= 658 divided by 27 gives remainder 10 which counted from 
Aswini gives Magha. 


To find the Sun's position 94 x 5 (bindus in the 7th house 
from the Sun) = 470 divided by 27 gives remainder 1} which 
counted from Aswini gives Purvaphalguni. 


Devakeralam :- 


Multiply the number of bindus in the Chandra Lagna by 
the number of bindus in the 8th house from her position and 
divide the product by 12. The remainder shows the solar month 
(counted from Mesha) of the mohter's death. 


In the Standard Horoscope bindus in the Chandra Lagna 
3 x 3 (bindus in the 8th house from the Moon) = 9; dividing by 
12, remainder is 9. The mother's death may take place during the 
solar month represented by the Dhanus house. 


TAWA = 
sateen oda 
ad a opt a8 aig BRE 
aera a aremissy Head | 
meta -- 
weregand: Res scat area a I 
wet oe Anges: rarer a | 


CHAPTER VIII 
ASHTAKAVARGA OF MARS 
arreariaeareasan: aatceracasa 
UstaeaHa wea TAT ATs PaTeTTaT: | 
wigetace: Prartece:? ear taftrasac- 
PH IAeSA ASS SASS AAT: 11 LA 


Sloka 1 — When Mars in his Ashtakavarga transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows:- 


8 bindus gain of wealth and lands: victory over 
enemies; ; 

7 ks wealth from brothers and also to them: 

6 - a King's (master's) favourite: 


% pleasing. behaviour: 

= pleasure and pain mixed and equal: 

7 separation from brothers and wife; 

ra quarrel on account of coveted things and 
money: 

l bindu bodily afflictions by weapons (operation), 

fire, fever or smallpox: 
0 bindu stomach-ache, eye disease. faints and death. 


Nw eM 


Mars Ashtakavarga 


Additional results given by other authors for the above:- 


g. araaPawe: 2. wR 3. farted. eT 


ASHTAKAVARGA 97 


bindus great luck and accumulation of wealth: 
- handsome look: 
‘3 gencral happiness: 
“ danger: 
" separation from brothers and wife, 
censure and dishonour from enemies and 
opponents. 


waa wast var adore wea fe *| 
araagshast Brea wareag IR 1A 


Sloka 2 — When Mars transits a Kakshya having a bindu in his 
Ashtakavarga, the person acquires money, improves health. life 
and bodily lustre. 


frgera we weageaftaet: wer *| 
Pret worst TenfrereT ATT IE 
Sloka 3 — While transitting a Kakshya void of a bindu, he 
(Mars) alwavs produces Dyspepsia (indigestion), creates head- 
ache and gives troubles due to impurities of blood and bile. 
warerat a wat Ura ETAT 
qeraearoyteateadt wafes atte il 


Sloka 4 — When Mars passes through a bhava containing the 
highest number of bindus in his Ashtakavarga, one should 
purchase land. gold. etc., in order to ensure prosperity. 


waraetst ware fefaceavet afer a yet 
wotarat fama waerreatht wa ate) 
yore fegorae faaraad oRreaeret: 
Sra afte mPEneey A! 1 


Sloka 5 — In the Ashtakavarga of Mars note the direction 
denoted by the bhava (rasi) containing the full (highest) number 
of bindus. Worship of Kartikeya (Commander-in-Chief of Gods), 
audience with a King, visit to a minister or work connected with 
lands, all these located in the above direction will prove 
auspicious. That direction in one’s own house is also good for 


unas 


NG 


98 memat: 


locating the kitchen and the sacrificial place. The enemies can be 
easily subdued, if the attack is made im the direction denoted by 
the rasi having the highest number of bindus, and at atime 
when it is rising. Mars’ transit over a bhava void of or having 
very few bindus and the direction indicated by it, will be 
unfavourable (for the above functions). 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the cardinal directions are 
a the North (Brihat- -jataka); (2) the South (Prasnamarga). 

arrareTaiser Tener: AAT: Aer: 

Yolearrareranyfaa aremrergaarg | 

war ay YT Yeaishaey 

Ye wera WET TYAN BG Wye lel 

Sloka 6 — The number of brothers (and sisters) is equal to thé 
number of bindus in the 3rd house from Mars (before the 
reductions). Of these, those contributed by male planets indicate 
brothers and the rest sisters (contributed by female planets); 
their welfare or otherwise depending on the planets donating the 
bindus. This method will be explained in detail in Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga (Chapter No.X verse No.12) while determining the 
number of children. The transit of Mars through a bhava void of 
anv bindu after the reductions, mav cause afflictions or death to 
brothers (sisters). 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Tula the 3rd house from 
Mars contains only ] bindu (contributed by Satum). 


yfist weet araat fra waz! 

wyrae waa Aa: AE: Tat: loll 
Sloka 7 — Find out: the number of Jindus in the 3rd bhava 
from Mars (in his Ashtakavarga). Out of these omit the bindus 


contributed by inimical and debilitated planets. The remaining 
bindus will represent the number of brothers (and sisters). 


waaay :- 
Sargdrarernt ages aq | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 99 
arrest Teyareraraet 
fares a aft afeaamy: ard! 


Wy Beane FT UAT ie tt 
Sloka 8 — When Mars, associated with 8 bindus, is exalted or 
is in his own house and occupies the 9th, 4th, Ist or 10th bhava 
the person becomes a multimillionair.' If Dhanus, Mesha, Simha, 
Makara or Vrischika becomes the Lagna and Mars associated 
with 4 (or more) dindus occupies it, the native becomes a King. 


Asa dd a weit: STI 
wraSaeE ae STAT: 
Breakers Tawa 11S 1 
Sloka 9 — When Mars is associated with 8 bindus (in any 
bhava) the person born becomes a petty King; if that happens to 
be the 10th or Ist house;*he will be a King; if he is born in a 
royal family, he will be a King of the whole country; if the said 
Mars be in exaltation or in his own house in addition to the above, 
the person becomes an Emperor. 


frarereert grat yet aa Uaar* | 

wa aft a art a at Fe farts igo tt 
aaa g waa aaett fate 

wartraet aire wet GT A BTL II 
wa year: AAR: WATTS HI 

went wa yah aaa TT ALT 
war sadaracaiguige wal 

wat aa efter aa yee: Sear 123 11 


] Devakeralam adds that such a person born in a royal family 
becomes an Emperor. : 


2. The 2nd house according to Devakeralam. 


100 , spear: 


(Slokas 10-13 — The cardinal directions indicated by the bhavas 
which contain more bindus after Trikonashodhana help us to 
decide favourable directions in respect of land, wife, wealth and 
residence; in unfavourable conditions, t.e., when there are less * 
number of bindus destruction of apparel are indicated in those 
directions. 

If after Ekadhipatyashodhana a bhava has less bindus, loss _ 
of lands, etc., will take place in the direction denoted by the 
bhave (rasi); but wherever there are more bindus, good effects 
(from the above things) are obtained,so says Devashala. 

Even though Mars is not powerful still, if he is associated 
with more bindus in his Ashtakavarga he bestows longevity on 
brothers (sisters) but the same Mars with less dindus causes 
gradual loss of lands, etc. 


BRANT = 
ameat die wgdraa | 
ah sefseasvae dgarnad Taq 1 
Devakeralam and other works:- 


1. When Mars associated with more than 4 bindus, is in his 
exaltation or in his own house and that rasi becomes the Lagna, 
Chandra Lagna, 10th or 9th house, the person bom eams 
immense wealth. 


2. Mars as the lord of the 2nd house posited in thé 6th house 
with 6 bindus will create, many enemies to the person but he will 
be having all the enjovments of life, even from his birth. (This 
can happen only in Tula and Meena Lagnas). 


3. If Mars. as the lord of the Lagna and the 8th house, is 
in the Lagna, Chandra Lagna, 10th or 9th house, associated with 
1 to 3 bindus and is in conjunction with lower class planets, or 
planets in debilitation. the person bor will be an adopted son. 
(This happéns only in Mesha Lagna). 


4. When Mars with 6 bindus is debilitated or in combust in 


ASHTAKAVARGA 10] 


the 6th, 8th or 12th house, associated with waxing Moon or is in 
a Kendra, the person, will be without brothers. 


5. If Mars is strong, one becomes a village chief. Mars with 
4 bindus in the Lagna, Sth house or Kendra makes a person 
brotherless. 


6. Mars or Saturn in the 3rd house (from the Lagna) with 
I to 3 bindus in Mars' Ashtakavarga causes loss of brothers. 
When Satum and Mars are in conjunction with | to 3 bindus 
there is loss .of brothers as well. 


7. There will be brothers if Mars is in the 3rd house 
associated with 4 or more bindus with an aspect from a benefic. 


8. The mutual malefic aspect between the lords of the 7th 
and 4th houses also causes loss’ of brothers. 


9. In Mars’ Ashtakavarga the following effects are noticed 
according as the Lagna is Chara (movable), Sthira (fixed) or 
Ubhava (common) rasi:- 


(a) the Lagna a Chara rasi and Satur in anUbhava rasi 
with ] to 3 bindus indicate loss of brothers and sisters; 


 (b) the Lagna an Ubhaya rasi and Satum in a Chara rasi 
with | to 3 dbindus indicarte loss of brothers; 


(c) the Lagna a Sthira rasi and Mars or Saturn anywhere 
with | to3 bindus indicate loss of the father and 
brothers; 


(d) the Lagna a Chara rasi and Saturn anywhere with 5 or 
more dbindus will make the native rich and will bestow 
many brothers: 


(ce) the Lagna a Sthira rasi and Saturn in a Ubhavya rais in 
the 5th liouse with 4 or more dindus will make the 
native longlived, rich and comfortable: and will bestow 
many brothers. 


102 separ: 


10, When Mars, in conjunction with the lord of. the 7th 
house, is in debilitation or in combust or has association or aspect 
from malefics,there will be loss of brothers. 


11. Mars in the 8th house from Saturn, or Saturn in the 
8th house from Mars, with 1 to 3 bindus, indicates loss of 
brothers (thisis quincunx aspect); much more so, if the 3rd house 
from the Lagna also is occupied by malefics. 


12. There will be as many brothers as there are bindus in 
the house where Mars is situated, or in his trine houses, when 
anyone of these is aspected by a benefic. (This is another way 
to find the number of brothers). 


13. The number of brothers will be equal to:- 


(a) the number of Navamsas pased over (Tae) by: 
Mars when he is in the 3rd house associated with 3 
bindus: 


(b) the number of bindus in the house occupied by 
Mars;and 


(c) the number of bindus that remain in. the 3rd house 
from the Lagna after Trikonashodhana. (This figure 
represents the number of brothers alive). 


14. If Mars with 4 dbindus is m mutual aspect or is in 
conjunction with Saturn, the person will be the head of many 
States or a dispenser of justice provided Mars is not in debilitation 
or combust. 


15. If Mars with | to 3 bindus, is in any house in conjuction — 
with or aspected by Mercury, the person born will be poor and 
suffering privations, sorrow,etc. 


16. If Mars with more than 4 bindus is in anv bhava with 
the Moon is aspcted by her, the person will be the head of many 
States. 


17. When Mars as the lord of the 4th house, occupies his 
own house associated with 4 bindus, a person born in a royal 


ASHTAKAVARGA 103 


family will own 3 to 4 fortresses. If the said Mars is in the 10th 
house, he will be a King or dispenser of justice. If the person is 
a Brahmin, he will be conducting and performing many sacrifices 
(Yagnas). If a Vaisva, he will amass wealth by agriculture and 
trade. If 2 Sudra, he will be a Commander in army, or will have 
high position in life. (This can happen only for Simha and Makara 
Lagnas). 


18. Multiply the number of bindus in the 3rd house from 
Mars by the number of bindus in the 8th house therefrom and 
divide the produet by 12. The remainder reckoned from Mesha 
represents the solar month for afflictions to brothers. 


“Notes : In the Standard Horoscope multiply 1 (the number 
of bindus m the 3rd house from Mars) by 2 (the number of 
bindus in the 8th house from that, 1.e., 12th house from the 
Lagna). The product 2, divided by 12 leaves remainder 2. This 
represents the solar month Vrishabha. 


reat dre wearer | 
‘arafrrer eect urate Bay ey 1 
Teter arse Wad | 
Beret At ae agers faareergy 124 11 


Slokas 14, 15 — One should eonsider all about brothers, 
valour and courage from the Ashtakavarga of Marrs. The 3rd 
house from Mars is called the house of brothers. 


Multiply the Shodhvapinda of Mars by the number of 
bindus (before the reductions) in the 3rd house from him and 
carry out the other calculations as was done in the Sun's 
Ashtakavarga. When Saturn transits that asterism. the demise of 
or injury to brother may happen. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mars’ Shodhvapinda 153 
x | (bindu in the 3rd house from Mars before the reductions) = 
153 divided by 27. gives remainder 18. Counted from Aswini this 
gives Jveshta. When Satur transits Jyeshta or its trines, the said 
effects mav take place. 


104 weal: 


To find Jupiter's position :- 


153 x 2 (indus in the 7th house from Jupiter in Mars’ 
Ashtakavarga) = 306 divided by 27, gives remainder 9 which 
gives Aslesha and its trines for Jupiter's transit. 


In the Ashtakavargas of Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus, 
it is appropriate to consider the asterism along with its trines also, 
since it is possible to have more than one relation represented by 
those Karaka planets. 


aRaisirearrsa aera: SreaTTARITE 1 128 


Sloka 16 — Multiply the Shodhyvapinda of Mars by the 
number of bindus in the 3rd house from him (before the 
reductions) and divide the product by 12. The remainder reck- 
oned from Mesha house shows the house which when transited 
by Jupiter brings much benefit through brothers. Again the Dasa 
and Antara of the lord of that rasi shows the time when brothers 
are born and also when benefits from brothers can be expected. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mars’ Shodhyapinda 153 x 1 (bindu 
in the 3rd house from Mars before the reductions) = 153 divided by 12. 
Jeaves remainder 9 which represents the Dhanus house. Jupiter's transit 
through that house and the Dasa and Antara of the lord thereof, i.e.. 
Jupiter. will bring about the aforesaid results. 


CHAPTER IX 
ASHTAKAVARGA OF MERCURY 
wer earatearera facet’ fasateacaa: 


aataractea Aayearkaearay | 
Rerargeat Petra Or wares 
STAT FoI: AAS AA: Vk 


Sloka 1 — When Mercury in his Ashtakavarga.transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows :- 
8 bindus honour from King or Government (Ruling 
power); 
7 = affluence of wealth, intelligence, learning and 
happiness; 
6 of success in all undertakings: 
5 new friends and relations: 
4 . lack of enthusiasm in work: 
3 » uneasiness due to mental worries: Sickness on 
account of three humours, Vata, Pitta 
2 and Kapha (wind, bile and phlegm): 
| bindu — enforced imprisonment, other kinds of dangers 
and sorrow; and 
0 a loss of everxthing and consequent death. 
Additional results given by other authors for the abve :- 
8 bindus all kinds of good luck; 


7 broadminded and philanthropic living without 
worries: 
6 i capacity to grasp and accomplish easily even 


the most intricate and abstruse problems: 
CLIC 


2. Prrerageasdsitrare. dtyaPrnfeis- 
ug sealtedsr sad Teese se: 1 | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 106 


4 % contentment; 
1 bindu ‘tormented very often by enemies; 


0 - and loss of all property through enemy in- 
trigues and finally death. 


Mercury's Ashtakavarga 


geet Yaar dhet fiers awa wart 
areas fancaragera: 112 11 
Sloka 2 — When Mercury transits a Kakshya having a bndu in 
his Ashtakavarga one gets happiness and sweetmeats (sumptu- 


ous meal) always and rejoices in giving alms, doing charitable 
deeds and becomes a devotee of Brahmins, God and Agni (a1). 


fagtemmerva see aft: wet 
Zeaetst Persea Tal 13 1 
Sloka 3 — While transiting a Kakshya void of a bindu, he 


(Mercury) will give minor injuries; the native quarrels with 
enemies, gets bad dreams and untimely meals. ! 
gage pera a eagareargar: | 
Team watrenfattgeate Prag iy 11 
Sloka 4 — One should think about the family (welfare), wealth, 
children and maternal relations from the 4th house from Mercury 


and about Mantras (43) leaming, writing and intellect from his 5th 
house. ; 


ASHTAKAVARGA ‘107 


wet - gugentdapm a wgeeT 11 
utearenat qagatfadtat 7 aie 
waaaE waa GTA WIsasH 1k 11 


Sloka 5 — If the 2nd house from Mercury contains not even | 
bindu in his Ashtakavarga, the person born will be dumb. If it 
contains 1, 2-or 3 bindus, his speech will be unsteady and 
tremulous. : 


wott aat ade ae wiete aff waver! 
aera rasa St are Hae Brat were AT LE 


Sloka 6 — When the number of bindus (in the 2nd bhava from 
Mercury) is 4, the person will talk well after some one else has 
spoken. If there are 5 or 6 bindus, his speech will be commend- 
able by “virtuous persons and fitting to the occasion; with 7 
bindus he will be a scholar capable of composing poems and 
dramas. 


GTS TA WT AT ASA FTI 
eae PA craafaday ie 1 
Sloka 7 — When the number of dindus is 8, nobody will be 
capable enough to answer the questions put by him in debate or 
oppose him. When the 2nd bhava from the Lagna ( in Mercury's 
Ashtakavarga) is void of bindus, the person will be incapable of 
expressing even his own intentions properly. 
Notes : As stated in the first line of the verse, the 2nd house from 
Mercury cannot contain 8 dindus because he does not contribute 
a bindu in that house. Hence, the 2nd house from the Lagna may 
be considered as it may contain 8 bindus. 
The 2nd house from the Lagna will have at least | bindu 
contributed by the Lagna (2nd line of the verse). Therefore, the 
expression ‘‘YRl orate fede” may be construed to mean that 
there should be no bindu contributed by any donor other than the 
Lagan. This is the accepted view. 
WT J AeMTEs YR SA PST | 
WAMSAT Aaa 


Lic tt 


108 arena: 


Sloka 8 - If the bindus in the 2nd house from Mercury are 
donated by malefics, the native's speech is full of deceit and 
arrogance; if donated by benefics the speech will be virtuous. If 
the bindu is contributed by the Sun, the speech is in the form of 
wise counsel, while Saturn's bindu makes it vile (1.¢., improper or 
unsuitable to the occasion), and that of Mars causes discord. 

Notes : Even the wise counsel will be of an imposing nature. 


werecefegat yerer YA: BRT aT Bh | 
FUT Ta WATE PATA TAM TA: ATT LAS UA 


Sloka 9 - The person's speech is sweet if the bindu (in the 2nd 
house) is donated by. Mercury; it is distinct and clever if 
Jupiter's: it shows erudition in Puranas and Kavyas and is also 
delighting if Venus’; and it is deceptive if Saturn's. 

Notes : Regarding Mercury refer to notes under verse No.7. 


weaad’ drags ee Ararat | 
aaistage earercaat. gata ae | 1 10 U1 


Sloka 10 - If the Moon, posited in her depression or inimical 
sign, has contributed a bindu, the speech of the native will be 
sluggish and doubtful. If Ketu, Mandi or Rabu occupies the 2nd 
house from Mercury, the speech will be vile and harsh. 

: ath f a _ 

PAE WSTFTHAT TA AT AAS FTA RAAT: | ALLA 
Sloka 11 - When Ketu is in the 2nd house from Mercury, one's 
speech will be indecent in an assembly; when it is Mandi, it will 
be about thefts. curses or scandals and when it is Rahu. it will be 
depraved and about wicked deeds. 

Notes : In the previous four verses, the 2nd house from the 


Lagna is considered by some commentators as ates house rules 
speech: 


gerne a generat wget yr 
ae a fate eae Jat FSIS: 1122 11 


2 wrearad 


ASHTAKAVARGA 109 


Sloka 12 - In Mercury's Ashtakavarga when he is in a bhava 
void of bindus, there is lack of brilliancy in intelligence. Mental, 
Iethargy is the result for the period when Mercury passes 
through bhavas void of bindus. 

Notes : Here, the house where Mercury is situated will contain 
at least 1 bindu contributed by him. Hence the question how to 
explain Sunya (voidness of bindu) may arise. A reasonable 
answer to this is that there is no bindu contributed by the other 
planets or the Lagna in the said house. 


Wa aa wet Sa Aa T AKATT 11S A 
HEY AST LU aT BA AY Ger WT I 
aay Ter sake ar Fah TATT De 1 


Slokas 13,14 - When Saturn transits a bhava which has no bindu 
(after the reductions) in Mercury's Ashtakavarga, misfortune or 
death of the brothers and children of the native's kinsmen may 
happen. But, if the said bhava happens to be 3rd, 6th, 10th or 
11th (Upachaya) house from the Moon, the bad effect is very 
much mitigated. The effects of any other bhava (void of bindus) 
are nullified when Saturn transits it. 


If the said house happens to be the 8th or 12th from the 
Moon, then during Saturn's transit over it, the person suffers 
bodily: ailments or even meets with death. 


qaearerat aera? seer | 
Framarea: wereta fears gy ATTA: 1 
Sloka 15 - The commencement of any Vidya (new study) will 
be successful and also one will succeed in literary and legal 


debates when Mercury passes through bhavas containing many 
bindus. 


frated arena fran: wafrarae: SAT I 
TATOO TT BATA HS TST TSA: | ALE 


“110 aemat: 


Sloka 16 - Commencement of any Vidya will be 4 complei« 
success, if it is during the solar month corresponding to the bhava 
containing the highest number of bindus in Mercury's 
Ashtakavarga. When Saturn transits a bhava having no bindu, 
loss of some relation, kinsman or wealth will take place. 


t fafer 
eaftanaet ware 3 rag art a went RATA 
aa 


WTA SCG A TY ACTA TTA ET 
ard a araereadt oftyetery ar UT | to 1 


Sloka 17 - The cardinal direction represented by a bhava having 
many (maximum) bindus in Mercury's Ashtakavarga, should be 
the place for quick success in education. Location of the 
playground, place of worship of God Vishnu and service to 
~ Yuvaraja should be in that direction. A person who argues the 
case (in the Court) standing in that direction, or at a time when 
that rasi (bhava) is rising, is sure to succeed in litigation. 
Notes : In the Standzrd Horoscope the cardinal direction is the 
South according to both the methods. 


Sa aghrgs A oredtafaenfewirrer | 
 Sreatetaerataterst ceragieat a araerh: 1 1¢ 14 


Sloka 18 - One, born with Mercury in a Kendra or Trikona 
associated with 8 bindus, becomes conspicuous in learning 
pertaining to his caste and enjoys many comforts. Mercury in his 
exaltation,own house, etc., even associated with 1, 2 or 3 bindus, 
“does not impair but advance that bhava. 

Notes : in the above case if Mercury (with 1 to 3 bindus) is 
‘debilitated or in inimical house. the.effects of the said bhava are 
nullified. 


Devakeralam and other works- 


When Mercury is in the 6th, 8th or 12th bhava, associated 
with | to 3 bindus and has no aspect from a benefic planet, 
the person bom will be a gambler and meanminded. 


ASHTAKAVARGA il 


If Mercury associated with 3 bindus and in conjunction with 
Venus is in the 6th, 8th or 12th bhava, the person bom will 


_ be illiterate and a poor. 


If Mercury associated with 5 or more bindus is in Trikona 
in conjunction or having aspect from Satum or Jupiter, the 
person bom will be well versed in the Vedas (Satum and 
Jupiter are planets of philosophy). 

If Mercury is in the 6th house from Satum and is associated 
with 5 bindus and Jupiter is in the 2nd house from the 
Lagna, the person bor will become an eminent astrologer. 
(a) If Mercury associated with 5 dindus is in conjunction” 
with Jupiter and Mars; or (b) if Mercury (with 5 bindus) 
in conjunction with Jupiter, aspects Mars the person born 
becomes a good logician (in whichever bhava Mercury may 
be). : 

In Mercury's Ashtakavarga if the Sth house from the Lagna 
has 1 to 3 bindus with Ketu in that house, or if Ketu in 
conjuction with the lord of the 5th is in any bhava, the person 
born will be proficient in astrology. (In all its branches Phala, 
Ganita, etc.) 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the Sth house from the Lagna 
contains 2 bindus. Ketu and Venus (Lord of the Sth house) 
occupy it. 


7. 


8. 


10. 


If Mercury has Navamsa in his own house, the native will 
be proficient in sculpture, poetry, Vedanta and fine Arts. 
lf Mercury is associated with Satum, Venus and the Moon, 
the person bom will be proficient in dance, music and 
jugglery. 

If Mercury, associated with more than 4 bindus, is in the 
house of Mars or in the Navamsa of Venus and is aspected 
by Jupiter, the person born becomes a great poet and 
dramatist. 

If Mercury, having debilitation in Navamsa and association 
with malefics (conjunction or aspect), is in any bhava with 
more than 4 bindus, the person bom will be proficient in 
dance, music and mimicry. 


112 wena: 


11. Mercury with 1 to 3 bindus in any bhava but having 
Navamsa in a female sign,will destroy the effects of that 
bhava. 


12. If the lord of the house where Mercury is situated is 
associated with more than 4 bindus in Mercury's 
Ashtakavarga, and is in a Kendra or Trikona (from the 
Lagna)‘aspected by a benefic, the person born will have 
learning, fame and intelligence. 


13. When the lord of the bhava occupied by Mercury is in the 
6th, 8th or 12th bhava from the Lagna, there will be many 
obstacles in education. Even if that lord be in his own house, 
or in his exaltation with 1 to 3 dindus only (in Mercury's 
Ashtakavarga), the effects of the bhava occupied by 
Mercury do not prosper. 


14. Even though Mercury is in debilitation or combust or in 
inimical house, still, he is a beneficiary if associated with 4 
or more bindus. He confers the effects of the bhava 
occupied. 


15. In Mercury's Ashtakavarga note the rasis having more than 
4 bindus. Out of these, find out the rasi which has an aspect 
from a benefic. The period of Mercury's transit through this 
rasi (bhava), is the most auspicious one to start education so 
that even a person of weak intellect becomes very profi- 
cient. 


16. Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mercury by the number of 
bindus (before the reductions) in the 10th house from him 
and divide the product by 27. When Saturn passes through 
the asterism represented by the remainder counted from 
Aswini, there will be loss in trade, business (or some troubles 
in service). 


Notes : in the Standard Horoscope Mercury's Shodhvapinda 170 
x 4 (bindus in the 10th house from him before the reductions) = 
680 divided by 27. gives remainder 5: Mrigasiras which when 
transitted by Saturn brings about loss in trade. busines. etc. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 113 


erected Taare | 
CATEASTTSTTT UF TET: | 
Perea A AIATTETAT 
ferermrare ferroren ST AT ATT: 11230 
Seas Far Aer wTTH: VLHHTT: | 
Pater a aaa wares Baa 1 Ro 1 


Sloka 19, 20 - Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mercury by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the 2nd house from 
him; divide the product by 12 and get the remainder. Find which 
rasi (bhava) it represents when counted from Mesha house. 
Then, the Dasa and Antara of the lord of that rasi and the time 
when Jupiter transits that bhava, are the best priods for learning 
new Vidvas (Sciences). In addition, all things represented by 
Mercury such as ambassadorship, professorship,ete., can be 
acquired during these periods. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mercury's Shodhvapinda 170 
x 2 (bindus in the 2nd house from him before the reductions) = 
340 divided by 12 leaves remainder 4 which represents the 
Kataka house. Jupiter's transit through that house and the Dasa 
and Antara of the lord thereof, i.e. the Moon will bring about the 
aforesaid results). 


qereant aeret ATE WAT 
seg ttratrarerdtectaet ATT ATT 1RE 1 


Sloka 2] - Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Mereury by the number 
of bindus (before the reductions) in the 4th house from Mercury 
and divide the product by 27. The remainder reckoned from 
Aswini gives the asterism which when transited by Saturn, 
makes onelose his relations, friends, etc.without doubt. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mereurs’s Shodhvapinda 170 
x 1 (bindu in the 4th house from him before the reductions) = 170 
divided by 27 gives remainder 8. Counted from Aswini this 
gives Pushya. When Saturn transits Pushya or its trines the said 
effects mav take place. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 114 


To find Jupiter's position :- 

170 x 3 (dindus in the 7th house from Jupiter in Mercury's 
Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 510 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 24 which gives Shatatara and its trines for Jupiter's . 
transit. 

To find the Sun's position:- 

170 x 4 (bindus in the 7th house from the Sun in Mercury's 
Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 680 divided by 27 leaves 


remainder 5 which gives Mrigasiras.and its trines for the Sun's 
transit. ; 


CHAPTER X 


ASHTAKAVARGA OF JUPITER 


Sloka 1 - When Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus, the results are as follows:- 


8  bindus 
7 * 

6 “d 

5 2 

4 + 

3 = 

2 = 

] bindu 
0 . 


one becomes a King or gets power and status 
equal to a King: 

various kinds of wealth and general happiness: 
good dress, conveyance, gold, etc. ; 
destruction of enemies and success in undertak- 
ings; ; 

neither profit nor loss; 

ear diseases and loss of vitality: 

displeasure from the ruling powers; 

loss of wealth and relations: 

deterioration of intelligence, wealth and children. 


Additional results given by other authors for the 


7 = bindus 
3 7 

4 = 

2 “3 

1 bindu 
0 


2. teen sem: qeriPras: dng dere 


above:- 
acquisition of wealth and children: 


contact with and residence amongst good and 
sincere friends: 


meanness. ridicule from others: 

poverty, distress and no settled quartcrs: 
loss of wife, children and landed property: 
persecution by enemy: . 

death of children. 


As 
on 
Hy 


3. apeHrad weftaca sreriqae: | 


116 spepat: 


Jupiter's Ashtakavarga 


grat het ware AGATE LR A A 


Sloka 2 - When Jupiter transits a Kakshya having a bindu in his 
Ashtakavarga, increase in wealth, general happiness and conjugal 
bliss are the results. One becomes a destroyer of enemies, 
respectable and energetic; enjoys great prospertiy, increase of 
good apparel and gold; all sorts of happiness in abundance. He 
becomes a recipient of gifts from relations. 


fg: we farceadiatad frarat 
AMT ws, wah war West aTeATaT* | 
wgey aaafe war arearenrsarhs: 1131 


Sloka 3 — While transitting a Kakshyva void of a bindu. one 
suffers from misery due to loss of wealth and_ intelligence: 
becomes mentally worried over money matters. He often meets 
obstacles in travel or suffers a fall from a vehicle. One quarrels 
with all and suffers dishonour through speech. One is often 
. troubled by enemies and excessive spending. There is futility of 
efforts through rashness. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 117 


Wareraad wes yarteaeny | 
saree wears 1S 1 
Sloka 4 - One should consider about knowledge, children, 
rcligion, wealth, etc. from the 5th house from Jupiter and general 
consideration of children from P Aupiters Ashtakavarga. 


FAIS Heel: aoe Faswar: 114 11 


Sloka 5 - All functions such as initiation into sacred Mantras, 
repitition of the same, oblation to the sacred fires,performance 
of sacrifices, etc. study of Vesdas, feeding of Brahmins, all 
attempts to beget progeny, amassing of wealth etc. will prove 
effective when they are undertaken at the time of Jupiter's transit 
over a bhava containing the highest number of bindus in his 
Ashtakavarga. All these prove unsuccessful,if they are begun 
when Jupiter passes through a bhava having the least number 
of bindus. 


We Se agnatern <areasarternret 

uat afer: ferfatefaser dasrat are | 
eoreeanrqany z 

aearar efefe fF aar Fetarartert te 


Sloka 6 - The cardinal direction indicated by the house containing 
the maximum number of bindus, and/or, the time when that sign 
is rising should be preferred for success, in the native's house for 
the following:- : 

, (a) feeding of Brahmins: (b) performance of Mantra, Japa 
and Anushtana (314314): (c) establishment of safe deposit vault, 
for keeping valuables like gold, etc.: (d) visit to preceptor, 
Brahmins and ministers, etc. and (e) emergence from the house 
_ of a journey. © 

. Sarecanitategant aay Ae: wer garsy | 
anfiferarneraanths wads seh a Tle tt 


118 wena: 


Sloka 7 — One desirous of having a child should impregnate, 
when the rasi, representing the bhava which in Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga contains the maximum number of bindus is rising 
(and is occupied or aspected by Jupiter). 

The location of cattle, wealth and vehicles in one's house 

should be in the direction indicated by the aforesaid rasi for their 
increase and prosperity. 
Notes: Nishekadhyaya says that the rising sign or the Moon 
should be aspected by Jupiter or other benefics (particularly by 
the former as he is the Santanakaraka) for conception to take 
place. 


Warecaterytergrerrat 
art parfeegarrs arrears 
wahefergartyaac ea 
wrayer: ATT VS 
Slok 8 - If the Sun occupies a bhava which in Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga contains the least number of bindus at the time of 
“birth, a person is very unlucky and all his efforts for improvement 
(of welfare) will end in failure. When Jupiter, associated with 5 
or more bindus, occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th bhava, the person 
born will be long-lived, wealthy and victorious over enemies. 


nN 
wie: eehaerar yeraae: ATT VIS 
Sloka 9 - When Jupiter is in exaltation or in his own house in - 
a Kendra or in the 9th house: or is in any other rasi which is not 
his debilitation or inimical house and is not combust: and is 
associated with 8 dindus, the person born becomes a king by his 
own prowess and fame. 


Fat HEAR AMAA ALATA EAT: | 
Halfaqvanvanf eazy fesmaraey ose: bo A 


ASHTAKAVARGA 119 


Sloka 10 - When persons having this Yoga of Jupiter, described 
in the previous verse, are born in Brahmin caste. they become 
equal to kings by virtue of their charities and good‘acts and are 
admired by all for their outstanding intelligence,valour and other 
good virtues. 


Notes : Under similar circumstances a Vaishya becomes a multi- 
millionaire and a Sudra becomes either an Army Officer or a 
nobleman (Devakeralam): 


weraicret ae (TT 2) weit AY agehrayTa: 
wefegh aeatactad: araterat waettraae: 1122 11 


Sloka 11 - When Jupiter associated with 7 bindus and with the 
Yoga referred to in Versc No.9 above is in conjunction with the 
Moon, persons born will have women, wealth and sons in plenty: | 
with 6 dindus they will be having much wealth and many 
vehicles; and with 5 bindus they will have victory and be of good 
conduct. 

Ferersrrrahatan® aratet ATTA | 

Rrerenht sarees: Bed: FAH 
Serres ay wo eather TAT: 1128 


-Sloka 12 - Matters relating to children should be considered from 
the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter. Find the house where the lord of the 
3th from Jupiter is situated. The person will have as many 
children as there are bindus in that house after the reductions. | 
The characteristics of the children will be according to the nature 
of the donors of these bindus. The appearance, stature, etc. will 
be according to the verse “Hyftteh" etc.(Brihat-jataka, Chapter 
Il. verse 8) and character and nature according to verse" darputra” 
etc. (Brihat-jataka, Chapter II.verse 7). Out of these children 
those represented by the powerful planets will prove very 
beneficial to the native. 


Notes : \n this and the following verses wherever the question of 
the reduction comes, the order of donorship given under verse 15, 


120 : wepat: 


Chapter IJ, should be follawed to ascertain the donors of the 
remaining bindus. 


In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter is in the 5th bhava (Tula). The 
5th sign from Jupiter is Kumbha and its lord is Satum. Satum is 
in sign Makara and there are two bindus in Jupiter's Ashtakavarga 
in that sign. The order of the donors is Mars, Jupiter, the Sun, 
Venmus, the Moon, Saturn, Mercury and the Lagna. The 2 
bindus referred to above are donated by Jupiter and Mercury. 
After the reductions there remains no bindu. 


When there are no bindus after the reductions consideration as 
regards children should be made by other methods. 


area Proreaterery feeq: Gary 
art eirenraoran antaaeanr sft | 

Arrafagererarerratssata Baa Yat 
Hata: Fat Seat gelamr: FIT AI 


Sloka 13 - As explained in the preceding verse the number of 
children should be reckoned as follows:- 


The planet whose bindu remains (after the reduetions) if 
retrograde or in exaltation represents three children; if in his own 
house, own Navamsa, Drekana or in Vargottama Navamsa 
represents two children; if in debilitation or inimical house, the 
children represented by him will die (at an early age). 


Male planets and planets in odd signs bestow sons while 
female planets and planets in even signs daughters. 


aft qeraaaihta Tarerared TATA | 
mPrayeypars: Garten ag fara 1 ey 1A 


Sloka 14 - Just as the number of issues is considered from the 
house occupied by the lord of the Sth house from Jupiter. the 
same should be done from the positions (1) of the lord of the 9th 
from Jupiter: (2) of the lord of the 5th from the Lagna and (3) 
of the lord of the 5th from the. Moon. The numbers of bindus 
after the reductions in the houses where these three planets are 


ASHTAKAVARGA 121 


situated represent the number of issues. subject to the conditions 
mentioned in the preceding verse. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the lord of the 9th house from 
Jupiter, Mercury is in sign Kanya. The number of bindus in 
Kanya is 4 and after the reductions there remain 2 dindus 
(contributed by Mercury and the Lagna). Mercury being in an 
even sign and also in his exaltation sign, contributes three 
daughters. Venus being in an odd sign and in her own house 
contributes two sons. 


The lord of theSth house from the Lagna, Venus is in 
sign Tula. There are 4 bindus before the reductions in that sign 
but there is no bindu after the reductions. The lord of the 5th 
house from the Moon is Saturn. The calculations are the same as 
done previously (verse 12). 

BRAT ATOAA SATA TAT | 
THAT AHA AGATA |S I 
Sloka 15 - The method (of finding the number of children) 
explained in the three preceding verses is according to the Brihat- 
jataka commentary Chandrika. Another school of thoght ac- 
cepted by many astrologers is as follows. 
qremarftt fae afjemry yerer Arata | 
Wate wat TT Hat a Gey 
wrt Yartarpara Jereitera: ATA: 1 1ke 
Sloka 16 - After the bindus in Jupiter's Ashtakavarga have 
been correctly placed, find out the bindus that are contained in 
the Sth house reckoned from Jupiter. Out of these omit those 
bindus contributed by planets which are posited (1) in inimical 
houses (2) eclipsed and (3) in debilitation. The remainder will 
signify the number of children the native will have. this numbers 
being proportionately increased by suitable multiplications in 
respect of planets in exaltation. Swakshetra. etc. and their sex 


being determined by the male and female planets contributing 
those hindus. 


122 sepa: 


Notes : In-the Standard Horoscope the number of bindus in the 
_ 5th house from Jupiter is 5 contributed by Mars, Venus, Mercury, 
the Moon and the Lagna. Out of these, the bindus of Mercury 
and the Lagna (lord Mercury) are eliminated as Me is 
eclipsed by the Sun. 


aerate weravt 
aagtraieratre: Fa Farge erase: | 
easal Perea YF we: yrs arca | | 
Gaae :- 
aang waea feat Herp 
De cia wa: | 


Sere ree 
waetqarart at aft ware fey deri 

gage yaaa she: erepearcha 
WATT TIT: FET Aa: | 

Waa GMT Waa FUR: | 

Ceres TAIT Ararat ARTA | 
feeasatee Trae araerenfte BAT VARTA AA: | Me 


Sloka 17 — Find the number of bindus in the 5th house from 
Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga. Out of these, exclude the following 
bindus :- . 
(1) that contributed by Jupiter's enemy; 
(2) that of the enemy of the lord of the Sth from Jupiter: 
(3) that of a planet in combustion: 
(4) that of a planet in an inimical house: 
(5) that of a planet in his debilitation house: 
(6) that of a planet who is the lord of the debilitation sign 
of Jupiter's 5th house lord; and 
(7) that of Saturn who is the lord of Jupiter's debilitation 
sign. 


ASHTAKAVARGA : 123 


The number of children is represented by the remaining bindus. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope, out of the 5 dindus in the 
5th house from Jupiter those contributed by Mercury (enemy) 
and Mars (lord of debilitation of Satu) will be eliminated. 


Mareat fafee fastest fret aaa wets URTy | 
faera Sorensen Pear: AMAT: VALE 


Sloka 18 — In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga after the reductions and 
omitting the bindus in houses occupied by malefics, find the sum 
of the remaining bindus. This will be the number of children. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the toal number of bindus 
after the reductions is 9 (Shodhyavashishta), Out of these the 
house occupied by the Sun contains 2 bindus which are to be 
eliminated thereby leaving 7, representing 7 children. 


Wresat YF wean FT) 
RUHR ASTRA: SAAT: 1128 


Sloka 19 — In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga after the reductions and 
omitting the bindus in houses owned by malefics, find the total 
number of bindus. This will be the number of children. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope there are 9 bindus after both 
the reductions. Out of this total take away 2 which are 
the bindus in the houses owned by malefics leaving thereby 7, 
representing 7 children. 


AAAS ATT FAT 
were yard: ateTAMAATA 1 Ro LI 


Sloka 20 — The number of children will be equal to the number 

of bindus in the 5th house from the Dwadasamsa sign of either 

the Lagna, the Moon or Jupiter. In choosing the most powerful 

of the above three, the following methods should be adopted :- 

(1) the strongest out of the Lagna, the Moon or Jupiter: 

(2) the strongest Dwadasamsa rasi of the above three: 

(3) the strongest 5th house of the above three (Dwadasamsa 
rasis): and 

(4) the 5th house which has more bindus contributed by 
powerful planets. 


124 arena: 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the Lagna is the strongest. Its 
Dwadasamsa rasi is Kataka and the Sth house from that 
isVrischika. There are 6 bindus in that house m Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga. 


arsgraears we: ead ettoracte: | 
eeHaty _arakreadt TAT IRL I 
wears: a farat at waa ar 
aaeraes at der Yary aATeAT IR 11 


‘Slokas 21,22 — If there are malefics in the 12th, 2nd and Sth 
houses, the number of issues is less. The issues may be equal to 
the number of bindus in the 5th house from the Lagna in 
Jupiter's Ashtakavarga. 


When Jupiter is in the 5th house, the number of issues is 
less, but, if he is associated with or aspected by the lord of the 
5th, many issugs may be predicted. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter is in the 5th house 
from the Lagna (in bhava) and Venus the lord of the 5th also is 
posited there. 


7 7y q z . %. 

WATT: A RASA: WAHT LARZ 

Bet AAMT at Aelerearszar FA: | 

qarerates Aaa Be VARY I 
Slokas 23,'24 — In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga when there are 3 
' bindus each in the 5th house from the Lagna and also from 
Jupiter, there will be very few children, so savs Devashala.’ 
The number of children may be declared equal tothe number of 
Navamsas passed (*T7aT¥1) in the Sth house from the Lagna: or 
by the lord of the 5th house from the Lagna: or by the lord of. 
the 5th house from Jupiter. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope (a) the 5th house Tula and the 
Navamsa also is Tula.i.e.. onc Navamsa: (6) Venus the lord of 5th has 
passed 4 navamsas: (c) Saturn lord of 5th from Jupiter has passed + 
Navamsas. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 125 


wet yaars gener eagat a e- 
ATT Fa Tat ENT aery I 
ae TAS IAAT SAAT 


Tye HeUTTHagA AT SATIS RY 


Sloka 25 — A person will have to adopt a child when the lord 
of the 5th house is in the house of Saturn in Navamsa and is in 
conjunetion with Mercury and Saturn. When the lord of the 5th 
house is in Saturn's house in Navamsa and, Jupiter and Venus in 
their own houses,a natural son is born only after adoption. 


In the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter when the 5th house from 
him contains more bindus contributed by planets occupying the 
houses of Saturn, either in rasi or Navamsa, a child has to be 
adopted. 


ways aaa: 

wad aaveHey AfaarakreaaT: | 
Waray YaANaT BNET Were: 
gorerguittra gatatastarentsgy: (18 1 


aatiat aaaway yaantseait 
Wasearaasasaesws AISI 11 

uty areata ay ga a ashe wags: 

past aeriih aera war Wg ag aw PAT IRC 1h 

Slokas 26-28 — (A) When (1) the lord of the Lagna, (2) the 


lord of the Moon's Lagna. (3) the lord of the Sth house. (+) the 
lord of the 7th house and (5) Jupiter, are weak: 


(B) when the above five planets along with Yamakantaka 
(Suu of Jupiter) are situated in the 6th, 8th or 12th house: 


(C) when the 5th house is occupied or aspected bi 
malefics: 


126 sepa: 


_ (D) when there are eunuch (4a) Yogas such as S=HSR 
etc., (Brihat-jataka,Chap.IV, verse 13); 


(E) when the Santana Tithi (WaTafaf®) happens to fall between 
the 8th day of the dark half and the new Moon; and 


(F) when there are few bindus in the 5th house from Jupiter 
in his Ashtakavarga. 

In all the above cases it is difficult to have natural children, 
even after -propitiatory rites are performed. Adoption also is 
not possible. 


The auspicious conditions necessary for begetting children 
are :- 


(1) when the five planets referred to above are powerful; 

(2) when these five planets and Yamakantaka are in 
Kendras, Trikonas or in the 11th house; 

(3) when the 5th house is occupied or aspected by benefics; 

(4) when there is the Yoga (combination) for having 
children; 

(5) when there are many bindus in the Sth house from 
Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga; and 

(6) the Santana Tithi falls in the bright half of the Moon. 
All these are auspicious for one to be blessed with children. If 


there is a mixture of good and bad Yogas,then one may have 
children aftcr performing the necessary propitiatory rites. 


Notes : The position of Yamakantaka during day time on week 
days beginning with Sunday is at the end of 18. 14, 10, 6, 2, 26 
and 22 Ghatikas, for a day of 30 Ghatikas duration-and during 
the night, at the end of 2, 26, 22, 18, 14, 10 and 6 Ghatis. The 
rising sign should be calculated for the same latitude as is done 
for the Lagna. 


wrath aa yt: yaetraftrar- 
aaa Taka: | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 127 


TATA: YATAT SAG asa: 
SST GEnvag ied: MAAN SST LARS! 
arte 


ate: ee a ee 
iia BURG bah lle 
art cofvataarratad aarrateea | 130 1 


Slokas 29,30 — When (1) the 5th house is aspected by malefies 
alone ; 


(2) the 5th house contains less than 25 bindus’ in the 
Samudayashtakavarga ; 


(3) the 5th house falls in an even sign (like 
Vrishabha,Kataka, Kanya, ete.,) and 


(4) at the time of birth the Moon occupies an even sign ; 
there is no possibility of getting any issue for the native. 


Of the four defects mentioned above, if thcre is one 
defect, the reason for no issue, is some uterine ailment to the 
woman; if there are two defects, it is due to afflictions by a 
malefic deity ; if three, it is due to both the above causes. 
The necessary propitiatory rites should be performed for the 
respective defects in order to get an issue. If all the four defects 
are found in a horoscope, one will have no issue at all even after 
performing proopitiatory rites. 


FT yrs ay eae atl 

Wat YAH AMAT AST A ATI 
Sloka 31 — If the lord of the 5th bhava is situated very near (1) 
the Sth bhava or (2) the bhava occupied by the lord of the Lagna, 
the person will have issue in the early part of his married life. In 
other circumstances the issue will be at an advanced age. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Venus, the lord of the 5th 
house, is there itself and is at the same time in the 2nd house 
from Mercury (the lord of the Lagna). 


128 weep: 


aratad gare wat werast | 
wa aaa wT yao PAPPeSTT RR IA 


Sloka 32 — When the lord of the 5th bhava occupies (1) a 
Kendra, (2) a Panaphara or (3) an Apoklima house, one will have 
an issue at an early, middle or later part of married life 
respectively. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Venus, the lord of the 5th 
bhava, is ina Panaphara house. 


PMA Tea asa At 

art a war Baraat a aes | 

Tat wreRats a Racy slat waq ya: 
yaaa fafa fearcemredt wad Jae: 
yaatisa fahrcaat feaacecared vilarefh 1 133 1 


Sloka 33 — The transit of Jupiter through rasis having more 
bindus in his Ashtakavarga, indicates birth of children. The rasis 
are to be detcrmined as follows :- 


1. The rasi occupied by the lord of the 5th bhava from the 
Lagna ; 

the Navamsa rasi of the above lord : 

the rasi occupied by the lord of the 5th from the Moon ; 


the Navamsa ras? of the above lord (item 3) ; 


Bow 


HN 


the rasi oecupied by the lord of the 5th from Jupiter : 
the Navamsa rasi . of this lord (item 4): 
the rasi oceupied by Gulika : 


O88 So 


the Navamsa rasi of Gulika : 
and the 5th and 9th rasis from all the above eight rasis. 


Notes : The rising times of Gulika from Sunday onwards are 26, 
22. 18, 14, 10, 6 and 2 Ghatikas respeetively after sunrise during 
the day and 10, 6,°2, 26, 22. 18 and |4 Ghatikas respectively: after 


ASHTAKAVARGA 129 


sunset during night when duration of a day or night is 30 Ghatikas 
each and proportionately increase or decrease according to the 
variation in day (1 Ghatika = 24 minutes : 30 Ghatikas = 12 
hours). Degrees of Gulika should be found as for the Lagna. 
wea ueyfeard wate Ww center 

artianenatatanantard waaay | 
ware faeorseftaaset gat faeraterar- 

wore att Barat aarsrafeard 13% 11 
Sloka 34 — Find out the rising sign and the position of Gulika 
with its trines at the time of query. Whenever the Sun, the Moon 
.or Jupiter whichever has the maximum number of bindus in his 
respective Ashtakavargas transits the above Gulika rasi or its 
trines, birth of a child takes place. In addition, birth of a child may 
happen when Jupiter transits the horary Lagna, its Navamsa rasi 
or its trines,which contains the maximum number of bindus in 
Jupitcr's Ashtakavarga (in the natal chart). 


Pogaatrarred gaa Tapas | 
fire card aagget yarn Prager 1134 11 


Sloka 35 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Jupitcr by the number - 
of bindus (before the reductions) in the 5th house from Jupiter ~ 
in his Ashtakavarga, divide the product by 27 and find the 
remainder. Find out the asterism counted from Aswini. When 
Jupiter passes through that asterism, a child will be bor. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Shodhyapinda of Jupiter 96 
x 5 (bindus in the 35th house from Jupiter before the reductions) 
= 480 divided by 27 leaves remainder 21, i.e.. Uttarashadha. 


fresfansryies FIT ATT: | 
WAHT qatar FeaTHere 

SPratrtstirrara agarfervag | 132 1 
Sloka 36 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Jupiter by 7. divide the 
product by 27 and count the remainder from Aswini : when 


130 wena: 


Jupiter transits that asterism, a child is bom. Again. if the 
Navamsa in which Jupitcr stands is stronger than the rasi 
occupied by him, the remainder should be counted from Dhanishta 
to find the asterism for Jupiter's transit. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter's Shodhyapinda 96 x 7 = 672 
; divided by 27 leaves remainder 24. Jupiter is in Kanya but in Navamsa 
he is in Vrishabha. He is therefore stronger in rasi. than in Navamsa. The 
24th asterism from Aswini. viz.. Shatatara should be taken. 


Sloka 37 — Multiply the Shusddhapinda of Jupiter by 4 and 
divide the product by 12. When the Sun passes through the rasi 
represented by the remainder counted from Mesha, a son will be 
bom. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter's‘ Shodhyapinda 96 x 
4 = 384 : divided by 12 leaves remainder 0, i.e., 12, the Meena 
house. When the Sun passes through this house, birth of a son 
may be predicted. 


WaEt TRAST FST A 
Ree wt Ww erties | 


aeraa: wafer wat Wee 
afer aagght SATIAT | IRC 1 


Sloka 38 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Jupiter by 7 and 
divide the products by 27. The remainder should be counted 
from the asterism occupied by Jupiter. When Jupiter passes 
through that asterism, a son is born. 


- Notes : Ih the Standard Horoscope Jupiter's Shodhyapinda 96 x 
7 = 672 : divided by 27 leaves remainder 24. Reckoned from 
Jupiter's asterism Hasta, the 24th is Aslesha which when transitted 
by Jupiter, birth of a child takes place. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 131 


yates yer vara a: | 
ae Wass TAs FATT 138 1A 
Sloka 39 — Multiply the Shodhvapinda of Jupiter by 9, divide 
the product by 12 find the remainder. This, counted from Mesha 
house is the rising sign (Ascendant) of the son to be born. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter's Shodhyapinda 96 x 
9 = 864 ; divided by 12 leaves remainder 0, 1.¢., 12. Reckoned 
from the Mesha house, the 12th is the Meena house which will 
be the rising sign of the new born son of the native. 
aaa aegay Yotanearhers- 
i 
wet Ve wd wars g Weilaerer ater: | 
THAT MAA aT Lat Ble 
araarereaase aferateretfrarnred | t¥o | 


Sloka 40 — Find in which planet's Kakshya Jupiter is posited 
in the husband's horoscope. If this planet contributes a bindu in 
the 5th house from Jupiter in the wife's horoscope, a son will be 
born when Jupiter transits the said house. Also, from the 
husband's horoscope find out the Navamsa of the planet in 
whose Kakshya Jupiter is situated. A son will be born when :- 

1. the Sun transits the above Navamsa sign or its trines in 
the husband's horoscope : 


2. the Moon transits the rasi occupied by Mandi in the 
wife's horoscope ; and . 


3. the rising sign is a Navamsa rasi or its trines of Gulika 
in the wife's horoscope. 


WarSesr Taya Heae aT TT 
Sa wat wa afaatasest WTI 
Rrerrvahtgsy wreaaeratet vairarcast 
Rrerterg faagqe fresare ware 


Sloka 42 — Note the bhava occupied by the lord of the 5th - 
house from Jupiter. In that bhava find out which planet's Kakshya 


132 wena: 


is occupied by this lord : when Jupiter transits the house occupied 
by the above Kakshya lord, a son will be born. This ts a very 
great. secret. 

In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga add up all the remining bindus 

after the reductions and multiply this by the number of bindus— 
remaining after the reductions in the 5th house from Jupiter and 
divide the. product by 12. The remainder counted from the Mesha 
house shows the solar month for birth of a child. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope (1) Saturn, the lord of the 5th 
house from Jupiter is in Makara, (i.c., 8th house) in the Lagna's 
Kakshya (Mercury). Mercury occupies Kanya. Jupiter's transit 
over Kanya indicates birth of a son. 


(2) Jupiter's Shodhyavashishta is 9. There is | bindu in the 
5th house from Jupiter after the reductions. Therefore,9 x | = 9 
; divided by 12 leaves remainder 9. Counted from Mesha it gives 
the solar month Dhanus. 


wat yataenratredat a: Jaatat Ads! 
ut ae aera afaent dtatPadazar- 
were Teg yarn weer Partsway Lye 1 


Sloka 42 — Find out the planet which is capable of giving a 
child, by using any one of the following three methods :- 


(1) by contribution of a bindu in the 5th house from Jupiter 
in the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter ; 

.(2) by the favourable position of the child giving planet in 
the natal chart : 

(3) by the formation of the Yoga (darTa)) to have a child. 

When the Moon transits the stronger of either the rasi or 
Navamsa of any of the above or its trines,birth of a child may 
take place. 

arr wMagareaagea aaferaret: Ear: 
yea ate: wpeig ear: Jat WA: Fa: 


ASHTAKAVARGA 133 


Wa wad egary aaarrafercariiar 
a: yeatt gitar a aaa: ~q Rrraq: FATTER I 


Sloka 43 — In the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter in a woman's 
horoscope. the number of daughters will be equal to be sum of 
bindus in the 5th house from (1) the Lagna, (2) the Moon or (3) 
Jupiter . and, the number of sons will be equal to the sum of 
bindus in the 9th house from the Lagna, the Moon or Jupiter. 


In the case of a male's horoscope the 5th house represents sons 
and the 9th house daughters. 
gigas Bt qequafieequafaet | 
Heaters ATT UTenfer aerearfer by 1 
Sloka 44 — In a woman's horoscope, the Shuddhapinda of 
Jupiter should be multiplied by the binuds in the 9th house. 
The number of sons should be considered from the bindus in 


the 9th house and their welfare. characteristics, etc.. from the 
planets donating them. 


Daughters’ birth, their number,characteristics, welfare, etc., 
should be considered from the bindus in the 5th house and the 
planets that contribute them. 


aniernant aearreatatiad arate: 
a Veet Teatidaarda ert me | 
TersivamseMite Hitg weer 
TPMT: HAT AGAeeaT AaTAT METIS 1A 


Sloka 45 — In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga find out the number of 
bindus m the 5th house from Jupiter. ‘to ascertain number of 
issues. Out of these eliminate the bindus contributed by planets 
in debilitation, in inimical houses or inimical to Jupiter, etc. After 
eliminating thus. there may remain a certain number of bindus. 
This will be the number of children. Find the positions in the 
Zodiac of the donors of these bindus. Determine whether the 
rasi_ or the Navamsa rasi of the donor is strong and take into 
account the stronger of the two. The birth of a child may be 
expected when the Moon transits :- 


134 - wea: 


1. that rasi, if the planet is in the first Drekana ; 
2. the fifth rasi, if the planet is in the second Drekana ; 
3. the ninth rasi, if the planet is in the third Drekana. 


To determine the exact Nakshatra and the Ghatikas passed, 
etc., when the child is to be born, the following calculations are 
to be made. When the planet is in the first Drekana, take into 
consideration only the degrees and minutes and not the sign. 
Convert them into minutes. Multiply these minutes by 135 (Aree) 
and divide the product by 1800 (4qvTa). Take the quotient. 
Eliminate one Pada (quarter) of the Nakshatra for each unit of 
5 of the quotient. When the remainder is less than 5, multiply it 
by 3 to get the Ghatikas past in that Pada. 


If the planet is in the second Drekana, subtract the sign 


and 10°and if the third Drekana, subtract the sign and 20° and 
take the remainder. Repeat the above operation. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope it is found from Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga that Mars is one of the donors of the bindus. His 
position is 48-7°-1' and therefore, is in the ]st Drekana of Simha 
and is in Mithuna Navamsa. He is stronger in rasi. Therefore, 
when the Moon transits Simha rasi, birth of a child may be 
expected. To find the actual Nakshatra and the time of birth 
(Tae) the following calculations are to be made :- 
48-7 - | 
48 - 0° - 0 
0S - 7° - 1’ converted into minutes = 421 
421 x 135/1800 = 56835/1800 = 31.575 quotient. 
For 30 (6 units of 5) the wholeof Magha and 2 quarters of 
Purvaphalguni would have elapsed. 
For the remainder, i.e.. 1.575 x 3 = 4.725 Ghatikas in the 
3rd quarter of Purvaphalguni. 


Total time elapsed in Ghatis in Purvaphalguni is 2 x 15 + 
4.725 = 34.725. 


WF 8 


ASHTAKAVARGA 135 


= 34 Ghatis 43 1/2 Palas in Purvaphalguni in Simha. 


If the laSt quarter of the verse is taken as (text variation):- 
“actaeeerria frrsy vadfeten’’ 


This means that the product obtained by multiplication 
may be divided by 600 (instead of 1800). In each case we get 
Ghatis elapsed from the commencement of the rasi and for every 
60 Ghatis 1 Nakshatra should be counted. 


421 x 135/600 = 56835/600 = 94.725 Ghatis. 


That is 60 + 34 Ghatis 43 1/2 Palas, in the 2nd Nakshatra 
(Purvaphalguni) in Simha. 


PeTACHT ATA: | 
agree dart aay aarfestay Se 1 


Sloka 46 — One learned in astrology should find out the number 
of children according to these various methods and predict 
children definitely, if other conditions are satisfied. 


Devakeralam and other works :- 


l. Jupiter associated with 1 to3 bindus will not: do much 
good to the bhava occupied by him. 


2. If the conception takes place when the Sun is transiting 
a house containing the maximum number of bindus in 
Jupiter's Ashtakavarga, the issue begotten will be. a 
virtuous son. 

If the Moon associated with | to 3 bindus is.in the 6th 
or 8th house from Jupiter in his Ashtakavarga. the 
person will always be in debts even though bom with a 
Rajayoga. 


had 


4. Wf Jupiter. in any sign having exalted Navamsa, ‘is 
associated with 5 or more bindus. the person is blesssed 
with plenty of wealth. lands, etc. : but if the Moon is also. 
in the 6th or 8th from Jupiter associated with | to 3 
bindus, he will be poor and unlucky. In the above case. 
if the Moon associated with more than 3 bindus is in a 


136 


mepay: 


Kendra (Kesari Yoga) or Trikona to Jupiter, the person 
will have plenty of wealth, land and other comforts. 

If Jupiter with | to 3 bindus is in his won house and 
in a Kendra or Trikona, the person will suffer great 
sorrow through loss of children and the like. 


In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga, when the lord of the house 
occupied by Jupiter is exalted and associated with 5 or 
more bindus, the person will be king of kings. 


Jupiter having less than 3 dindus and having Navamsa 
in debilitation (Makara) and at the same time Saturn is 
in the 2nd house from the Lagna, the native will be a 
dullard. 


(A) Venus in Jupiter's Kendra and at the same time 
Jupiter in the Lagna Kendra ; (B) Venus and Jupiter 
in opposition or in conjunction, make the person a king ’ 
or equal to a king, provided Jupiter is associated with 
4 or more bindus. 


When the Lagna is occupied by its own lord who is 


weak in strength and is associated with | to3 bindus in 
Jupiter's Ashtakavarga and Jupiter is in the 6th or 8th 
therefrom, the person is very unlucky and slow-witted. 


When the lord of the 8th house is in the 5th house and 
vice versa, and both the lords have no aspcet or 
connection with Jupiter, the person will suffer persecu- 
tion at the hands of his children and grandchildren. 


. The person will lose as many children as there are 


bindus in the 3rd or 3th house from Jupiter. if he is 
posited in the 6th, 8th orl2th house from the Lagna. 


12. Jupiter in Dhanus or Meena and not combust, with more 


than 5 bindus and having Vargas of male planets and 
associated with or aspected by a benefic, if conception 
takes place when this sign is rising. a virtuous and 
illustrious son will be born. 


20, 


ASHTAKAVARGA 137 


. When the lord of the house occupied by the lord of the. 


5th house is in conjunction with or aspected by Jupiter, 
and that lord is associated with more than 4 bindusin 
Jupiter's Ashtakavarga, a son will be bom who will 
ennoble the family prestige. If, in the above Yoga, the 
same lord is in debilitation with | to 3 bindus, the son 
will be treacherous to his father. 


., If the lord of the 5th house has malefic connection, and 


Jupiter associated with 3 bindus is hemmed in between 
malefics (amgHdf) a son who is evil-minded and a 
scourge to the family, will be bom. 


. When Satur passes through the house or -its trines 


whieh in Jupiter's Ashtakavarga has the least number of 
bindus, the person may meet with afflictions provided 
that house is unaspected by Jupiter at birth. 


. The period of the Sun's transit through houses having the 


least number of bindus in Jupiter's Ashtakavarga is not 
good for auspicious ceremonies. 


. The lords of the 9th and 10th houses and Jupiter, if each 


of them is associated with 8 bindus in their respective 
Ashtakavargas, and the lords of the houses ocupied by 
them are powerful, the person born will be exceptionally 
lucky and blessed with everything. 


. If the lord of the lagna is in the 2nd house or in the 9th 


house, and Jupiter in a Kendra (from the Lagna) with 5 
bindus, the father of the native will be luckier than 
himself. 


. When the lord of the 9th house and Jupiter are in 


Kendras. or oecupy their own houses. or their exaltation 
houses and both are associated with more than 5 bindus 
each, in Jupiter's Ashtakavarga. the person becomes a 
King or dispenser of justice. 

In Jupiter's Ashtakavarga after the reductions and 
omiting the binds contributed by malefics. find the sum 


138 


sepa: 


of the bindus that remain. This will represent the number of 


children of the native. 


Notes : This is another method of finding the number of children. 
In the Standard Horoscope out of the total of 9 bindus (after the 
reductions) 2 are contributed by malefics. Eliminating these 2 


binds, 
children. 
21. 


22. 


Notes ; 


children : 


bad 


the remaining 7 bindus represent the number of 


When malefics are in the 12th. 8th and 5th houses from 
Jupiter, the loss of wealth and children will occur. 
When the. 5th house is occupied or aspected by (1) the 
lord of the Lagna, (2) the lord of the house occupied by 
Jupiter, or (3) the lord of the 5th house itself, the native 
will have many children. 


To find the time of dealth or afflictions to the 


In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter's Shodhyapinda 96 x 
5 (bindus in the 5th house from him before the reduc- 
tions) = 480; divided by 27 leaves remainder 21. Counted 
from Aswini this gives Uttarshadha when Saturn tran- 
sits it or its trines the said effects may take place. 


To find Jupiter's position :- 
96 x 4 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter before the 


reductions) = 384 ; divided by 27 leaves remainder 6 
which gives Ardra and its trines for Jupiter's transit. 


To find the Sun's position :- 


96 x 5 (bindus in 7th house from the Sun in Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga before the reduertions) = 480; divided by 
27 leaves remainder 21 which gives Uttarashadha for 
the Sun's transit. 


CHAPTER XI 
ASHTAKAVARGA OF VENUS 


are" 
errs: ang aatret STA: LeU 
Sloka 1 — When Venus in her Ashtakavarga transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus the results are as follows :- 


Y aaa: YET | 


8  bindus one gets all enjoyment, good dress, women, 
sweet-smelling flowers, varieties of eatables 
and drinks, etc. ; 

‘s omaments and precious stones : 

. meeting a beloved wife : 

: contact with friends ; 

s mixed effects (good and bad) : 

. enmity with neighbours and village (town) 
people,tastelessness ; 

“ degradation, sickness ; 

fear from disease through phlegm, water or 

poison. 

0 3 all kinds of calamities. 

Venus' Ashtakavarga 


Ww me mM A ~I 
7] 


Ss 
5, 
a. 
£ 


9 Rae 2 HHA 


140 mena: 


witet tar waata aC Usrearater 
waren qguays chiara gat 

aaa wet watt ager arash 
cette watt qa aherarateratery iz 


Sloka 2 — When Venus transits a Kakshya having a bindu in 
her Ashtakavarga, one's status and respect in Government 
service are enhanced and he gets a daughter, enjoys bodily 
comforts and longevity, takes active part in sports, acquires 
extensive knowledge, attains success in his aim, acquires wealth; 
happiness and general welfare are on the increase. 
Feary: we wate fe fetta 

wat Wet Heaeaged yas wT aey* | 

ant as. waht War Wawra VATA 31 
Sloka 3 — While transiting a Kakshya void of a bindu, she 
(Venus) causes troubles, loss of wealth through enemies, afflic- 
tion to wife, extreme quarrels, loss of landed property, misery, 
aberration of mind, frequent expense fall from a horse or 
obstacles during journeys (throughout the period) to the people. 

aaa wat wa yyGe: Sareat ater 
ward watch ast anett ar! 
“if ae : — aq 

ater daft Pa gach atterfesaresq iy 1 
Sloka 4 — When Venus passes through a bhava containing the 
highest number of bindus, one should acquire bed and other 
necessaries pertaining to the bed chambcr. Learning of music, 
performance of marraiges, acts leading to sexual enjoyments 
should be commenced during that time for prosperity; further. 
that would be the best period to purchase apparel of silk and the 
like. 
a yaresais agneras feet aera: 
wrerrarehe rerarg ateraemat fears: YH: | 


ASHTAKAVARGA - 14 


Se aa aR a wat untetee qe 

wa: Creataa: erfernatterent a arbre: 1K 1 
Sloka 5 — In the Ashtakavarga of Venus, find out the cardinal 
direction according to Sthirachakra represented by the maximum 
number of bindus, before and after the reductions. Marriage in 
that direction brings propsperity. To have the bedroom in the 
direction denoted by the rasi (bhava) containing the maximum 
number of bindus before the reductions, in one's own house, is 
good for conjugal happiness ; it is good to see a minister and to 
get the marriage ceremony performed in that direction also. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Kataka and Simha both 
contain 6 bindus each. The direction represented is the South. 
After the reductions Kataka contains 5 bindus which also 
represents the South. 


TUM: 

yircHat ay feats | - 

Prarrehat apeat rare TeaATy | | 

dg tg ven equals feet wa FI 

ya wert fat a wet AT 

Went :- 

Gencat ays ya ag ay 

wen AIPA AT VTATH A | | 

Terasawa apres anaes 
wrabraty werfeet Rrereen: fer: | 


: Wa: 

aes aeraishafaae stata yeah le 1 
Sloka 6 — The number of wives will be according to the number 
of bindus that remain after the reductions in the following 
houses :- 
1. the house occupied by the lord of the 7th from Venus . 
2. the house occupied by the lord of the 9th from Venus : 
3. the house occupied by the lord of the 9th from the Moon ; 


142 weal: 


4. the house occupied by the lord of the 9th from the Lagna ; 
5. the exaltation rasi of the lord ofthe 7th from the Lagna ; and 
6. the debilitation rasi of the lord of the 7th from the Lagna. 

Out of these six, that which gives the maximum number 
should be taken when the lord of the 7th house from the Lagna 
is powerful and well-placed; the minimum number when the 7th 
lord is weak. 


Qareat Tey aareager ater | 

Pernbrrarat a arate way Ie 1 
Sloka 7 — When the 7th house from Venus in her Ashtakavarga 
has more bindus contributed by malefics and if Gulika is in the 
3rd or 1}th house from Venus, death of wife may happen. 
Notes : The 3rd and [Ith houses from Venus are the same as 
the trine houses from her 7th house. 


Raranay Sareait we- 
ategat atta WATEGAAT HAT AAACN | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 143 


ig a _ | 

Wy BAganeyge sea BAR 1 NC i 
Sloka 8 — In the Ashtakavarga of Venus when the 7th house 
from her has a bindu contributed by theSun and the Janma 


asterism of the wifc is in Krittika triad, she will be very dear (to 
the husband) as his own soul. 


If the bindu is that of the Moon and the Janma asterism 
is in Rohini triad, she will be very pleasing to his mind. 


If that of Mars and the Janma asterism is in Mrigasiras 
triad, she will be very helpful to the husband in doing good deeds. 
The same effect is obtained in respect of Ketu for Aswini triad 


(HaracHaA. 


If that of Mercury and the Janma asterism is in Aslesha 
triad, she will be obedient and agreeable to the husband's 
commands. 


If that of Jupiter and the Janma asterism is in Punarvasu 
triad, she will be blessed with virtuous children. 


If that of Venus and ‘the Janma asterism is in Bharani 
triad, she will be capable of given conjugal happiness to the 
husband. : 


If that of Saturn and the Janmaasterism is in Pushya triad, 
she will be always ready to serve her husband like a slave. 
Similar effects are evident for Rahu in respect of Ardra triad 


(xifraeret) 


Notes : \t is impossible to have a bindu of Venus in the 7th house 
from her. Still the author has mentioned "3q: @ragawariryen" 
for the effect of Venus. Therefore, it is proper to consider the7th 
house from the Lagna where a bindu from Venus may be 
possible and the wife can be born in Bharani triad. Hence the 
Lagna's 7th house also should be considered in the case of 
bindus of other planets. The lordship of asterisms is as followed 
in the Vimshottari Dasa system. 


144 arena: 


PeReHTasIge Beat TA | 

arahsraqy ATH SAAT ATTA S Wisi 
Sloka 9 — A wife having her Moon in (a) a house which has 
the maximum number of bindus in the Moon's Ashtakavarga of 
the husband: or (b) a house which has the maximum number of 
bindus in the husband's Samudayashtakavarga ; or (c) a house 
which has a bindu contributed by the lord of the 7th house from 
Venus in the husband's Ashtakavarga of Venus; is very 
auspicious for thc welfare of the husband. 


Notes : Similarly, the wife's horoscope should be considered for 
the husband. In the Standard Horoscope Mars the lord of the 7th 
house from Venus, contributes a bindu in Tula, the wife's 
Janmarasi. 


AST SAAT: PRET Tee: | 

a aut a feqeear fe geet war fae FTI ko 1 
Sloka 10 — Out of the houses which contain more bindus in the 
Ashtakavarga of Venus, any one occupied by :- 


(a) a benefic ; (b) the lord of the Lagna : or (c) the lord of the 
7th house, indicates the direction of the bride's place for a happy 
married life. 


aefagHeraa ay ATT Y aerareaThey: | 
mrgcaatrarerinary faery eatergy 1 18 U1 


Sloka 11 — When Venus associated with 8 bindus is posited in 
a Trikona or Kendra house, the person will be possesing mighty 
transport animals: if with 7 bindus in the above case, he will be 
possessing much wealth and precious stones ; and will be 
enjoying all comforts throughout his life. 


Arrears J set 
yatteafafaratararert ear | 


qpaseaterggaarectefaant 
Marae aayS WET | TI 


ASHTAKAVARGA 145 


Sloka 12 — The Rajayoga mentioned in Verse No.1 1 is nullified 
when the said Venus is in her depression or occupies the 7th, 
12th or 8th bhava. It is commendable to have the bed-chamber 
(in one's own house) in the direction indicated by the rasi (bhava) 
containing the least number of bindus in the Ashtakavarga of 
Venus, because it helps one to win over women and keep them 
in willing submission. 

Notes : Only Jatakaparijata (from which this verse is taken) 
takes the rasi (bhava) of the least number of bindus, while 
Prasnamarga, Devakeralam, Parasara-hora, Phaladeepika and 
other works take the one having maximum Jbindus for the 
- cardinal direction to locate the bedroom. 


werat ya aa arate) 
wet amfvates: erect aftretaate: (123 U1 
Sloka 13 — In the Ashtakavarga of Venus, the direction 
represented by the rasi (bhava) having the highest number of 
bindus should be the wife’s Janmarasi, so as to ensure increase 
in progency through her. If the bindus are less, wealth and 
progeny will be poor. 
WT AAG AaAATaT yt 
ara waaged Arretinreste bee 
AettarasPare 


Beraaarcrage: | 
WrseAga: PARTS STS ATT: FAK 


Slokas 14-15 — When Venus occupies the house of Saturn 
either. in rasi or in Navamsa ; or is in conjunction with Saturn or 
any other malefic : or is in debilitation Navamsa(Kanya), the 
person is desirous of having union with a despicable woman. 
If Venus occupies the house of Mars either in rasi or 

Navamsa and is aspected by or associated with Mars, the person 
will be fond of beautiful women of other people. 

TaN = 

hain ye dreamy ar 

Hast gagsera acess 1 | 


146 wena: 


OTE SAN HH ATTA AT AKT FA: | 

ATT ST SET ae AT are Mafra TE | 1G 1 
Slokas 16-18 — When the Navamsa of the 7th house falls in the 
house of Saturn or Mars and (a) the 7th house is aspected by 
them or (b) the lord of the7th house occupies the rasi of Saturn 
‘or Mars, the wife of such a person will have a lover, or she will 
be a strumpet, prostitute, servant or destroyer of the husband's 
happiness. 

When the Moon, having Navamsa in the rasi of a malefic 
planet is either in the 7th or the 12th house; and Venus is 
associated with a malefic planet, the person comes to grief 
through a woman. 

BRET St aS TOT | 
MAGUS FM AT ATLAS TOTAL 1s 11 


Sloka 19 — The complexion,appearance and the characteristics 
of a wife will be accordinng to (1) the lord of the Navamsa 
occupied by Venus ; or (2) the lord of theNavamsa occupied by 
the Moon ; and her virtues will be according to the lord of the 
7th house. 


pres PaaS AY FHT Ro HI 
AT TATA MATA ATT AAT I 


eaenfeseat arear PaRSRT RT 1122 11 


Slokas 20-21 — If Satum is in the 5th or the 9th house from 
Venus, the married life is not happy; but Jupiter in the same 
position from Venus bestows happiness. One should observe the 
virtues of the wife from the strength or weakness of these 
planets. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 147 


Having considered the primary effects from the above one 


should predict further from the Ashtakavarga of Venus. — 
Devakeralam and other works :- 


1. 


Venus with 5 or 6 bindus in a Kendra or Tnikona, 
bestows a happy and prosperous family life and conju- 
gal bliss. If this Venus is aspected by Mars, the wives 
will be from noble families. 

When Venus is in the Lagna, 4th or 10th bhava 
associated with 5 bindus and has an aspect from a 
benefic, the person will possess fine vehicles. 

In the above Yoga, if Venus is in the house of Mars, 
there will be immense wealth and many kinds of 
vehicles. : 

When Venus is in a Kendra (except the 7th bhava) or 
Trikona from the Lagna, associated with 5 or more 
bindus and is not aspected by Mars, the person will 
marry early in life. 

When Venus with 5 dindus is in her debilitation rasi 
or Navamsa,and is connected with Mars (by association 
or aspect), the person will undergo great difficulties to 
get married. 

Venus in a Trikona or the 2nd house from the Lagna 
occupied or aspected by malefics will create many 
obstacles for marriage. 

If the lord of the sign occupied by Venus is in a Kendra 
or Trikona from thc Lagna and associated with 5 
bindus in the Ashtakavarga of Venus,the person will 
possess wealth, lands, vehicles and good fortune. 

If the lord of the house occupied by Venus is in the 6th 
or 8th house from Venus and is in trine to the Lagna,the 
person will ill-treat his wife and become a pauper in 
course of time. 

When the tords of 7th and 5th houses are in trine to 
each other and Mars is in the 7th house from the Lagna, 
the person will be abandoned by his wife. 


148 


10. 


swenat: 


When Mars or Saturn is in the 7th bhava, and the lord 
of the 7th bhava has Navamsa in the house of Satum 
or Mars ; or has an aspect from them, the wife of the 
native will be immoral. 
When Venus, associated with 4 bindus, is in her 
debilitation rasi or Navamsa and has an aspect from 
Mars, there will be scandal about his wife. 
When Venus, with 1 to 3 bindus in Saturn's rasi or 
Navamsa, has an aspect from Mars, the person will 
become the husband of an adulteress. 
When Venus with 5 bindus is in the house of Mars or 
his Navamsa and is (also) aspected by Mars, the person 
will be going after other people's wives (of item No.1 
above). 

Mars in the 6th house, the Moon in the 7th house and 
Venus in the 12th house (from the Lagna) and any one 
of these having an aspect or conjunction with Saturn or 
Rahu, the person will have union with a widow. 

The Moon in the 7th, the lord of the 7th having 
connection with Rahu, and Venus in exaltation rasi, the 
person will have union with an old woman. 

When Venus associated with more than 3 bindus has 
exaltation Navamsa and an aspect from Mars, the 
person will be always lascivious. 

When Venus with 2 or 3 bindus is in the 6th.7th, 8sth 
or 12th house and the lord of the 7th house is in 
debilitation, the person will be co-habiting with a base 
woman. 

When Venus in the 6th, 8th or 12th house with 2 or 3 
bindus is in conjunction with or aspected by Saturn, the 
person will co-habit with a blind woman. 

When the lord of the 9th is in the 7th house and the 
lord of the 7th is in Jupiter's house and malefics occupy 
the 7th housé, the person will have union with a woman 
of defective limb. 


20. 


2l. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 149 


Same is the case when a malefic is in the 9th house, the: 
lord of the 9th is in the 7th house and another malefic 
is in the 2nd house. 

When Saturn or Mars occupies the 2nd or the 7th house 
from the Lagna and Venus is in the 12th, the person will . 
marry a second time even when the first wife is alive. 
When the lord of the house occupied by the Kalatradhipa 
(lord of 7th) is in Kataka sign and is associated with or 
aspected by malefics, the person will have two wives. 
When Venus is in debilitation or is in combust. with no 
benefic aspect, and the lord of the 7th house is hemmed 
in between malefics (Wad) he will have three wives. 
Lord of the 7th in the 9th house, a malefic in the 2nd 
and Venus in a common (344) sign, indicate two wives. 
The number of wives will be as many as there are 
planets in the 7th or 2nd house. This should be consid- 
ered only when the 2nd house is occupied by a malefic. 
When the 7th house is a house of Saturn or Mars and 
when Venus is aspected by Mars and if malefics 
occupy the 2nd house. the person's marriage will be by 
use of force. 

When the lord of the Navamsa rasi of the Moon is 
between the lords of the Ist and the 7th houses and also 
aspects his own house. the marriage is by use of force. 
When the lord of the house occupied by the lord of the 
7th ‘is in the 6th or 8th house from the 7th house 
(Kalatrasthana), or if he(that lord) is in debilitation. in 
an inimical house or in combust, therc is no chance of 
an issue. : 

When Jupiter in transit passes through the trine houses 
of Venus or the lord of the 7th, marriage takes place. 
When Venus is in the 7th bhava. and the lord of the 7th 
is aspected by Mars. the marriage takes place after 
great effort. 

Marriage of persons bom in Uttarayana (SdxTa") takes 


150 area: 


place when the Sun comes to the Navamsa rasi of 
Jupiter or its trine rasis and he (the Sun) is aspected by 
Jupiter at that time. 

29. Marriage of persons born in Dakshinayana (<férrart) 
takes place when the Sun comes to the Navamsa rasi 
of Venus or its trines and he (the Sun) is aspected by 
Jupiter at that time. 

30. Marriage may take place when the Sun is in the 
Navamsa rasi of the lord of the Lagna, aspected by 
Jupiter at that time. 

31. If the wife is from the direction represented by the rasi 

(bhava), which is without a bindu of Venus in the 
Lagnashtakavarga of the husband, the result of such 
marriage is sickness and great sorrow. 
If on the other hand, the wife is from the direction of the 
rasi,which has more bindus in the Lagnashtakavarga of 
the husband, the union brings great happiness, fame, 
long lifeand good children. 

ae PRRyaEt Testraes FA- 
ward mY reqs gaat aga \ 

ware wre Prensa: aa UT 
Rares Seba TAY aT TLR 

Sloka 22 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Venus by the number 
of bindus (before the reductions) in the 7th house from her. 
Divide the product by 27 and find the remainder. Count that 
much from Aswini and when Jupiter passes through that asterism 
represented by the remainder, marriage may take place. 


Divide the same product by !2 and find the remainder and 
determine the rasi from Mesha. When Jupiter passes through that 
house or during the Dasas or Antara of the lord of that house. 
marriage may take place. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Venus' Shodhyapinda {48 x 
4 (bindus in the 7th house from her before the reductions) = 592. 


ASHTAKAVARGA : 131 


divided by 27 gives remainder 25. Counted from Aswini this gives 
Purvabhadrapada. When Jupiter transits this asterism marriage 
may take place. 


The product 592 divided by 12 lcaves remainder 4 which 
represents the Kataka house (counted form Mesha). Jupiter's 
transit over that house or the Dasa and Antara of the lord 
thereof, i.e, the Moon, will bring about the aforesaid results. 


Tear araqah AAT wage 
ROR So CIRC CC MERI ED UII K 


Tet aga wearer se aderfaa 1123 1 


Sloka 23 — When the lord of the 7th bhava and its Karaka are 
both benefics and occupy the 7th bhava from the Lagna ; and 
also, if this 7th bhava is full of strength and is unaspected bv or 
unassociated with malefic planets, the wife and the husband die 
simultaneously. 

The death of the wife takes place diirtig the. Dasa or 
Antara (main or sub-period) of a Chhidra (fe - vulnerable) 
planct pertaining to the7th bhava; when Saturn passes through 
the bhava which according to the Ashtakavarga of Venus is fatal 
for the wife and, also, when Jupiter occupies the same Navamsa 
as that of Saturn (during transit). 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :- 

Venus' Shodhvapinda 148 x 4 (bindus in the 7th house 
from her before the reductions) = 592 divided by 12 gives 
remainder + which represents the Kataka house (counted from 
Mesha). When Saturn passes through it and at the same time 
Jupiter transits Kataka Navamsa in anv rasi. the death of the 
wife may take place. 

The following seven planets arc. Chhidra planets :- 
| the lord of the 8th bhava - 


2 the planet occupying the 8th bhava : 


152 meant: 


3 the planet that aspccts the8th bhava : 

4 the lord of the 22nd Drekana (Khara) from the Lagna .; 

5 the planet in conjuction with the lord of the 8th bhava : 

6 the Jord of the 64th Navamsa from that occupied by the 
Moon : : 

7 the Adhishatru of the lord of the 8th bhava. 


Death may take place in the Dasa of that planet which 
is the strongest of them. 


Shodhvapinda calculations for Venus :- 


In the Standard Horoscope Venus' Shodhyapinda 148 x 4 
(bindus in the 7th house from her before the reductions) = 592 
divided by 27 leaves remainder 25. Counted from Aswini this 
gives Purvabhadrapada. When Saturn transits Purvabhadrapada 
or its trines the death of the wife may take place. 


To find Jupiter's position :- 


148 x 4 (bindus in the 7th house from Jupiter in Venus' 
Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 592 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 25 which gives Purvabhadrapada or its trines for 
Jupiter's transit. 


To find the Sun's position :- 


148 x | (bindu in the 7th house from the Sun in Venus' 
Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 148 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 13 which gives Hasta or its trines for the Sun's transit. 


CHAPTER XII 


ASHTAKAVARGA OF SATURN 
araragatestratara eraaererera: 


Tet SnPoreeaafaa ATA TA: | 


Re Saar Bra aA 


aratiarre, WT Ate ear ease: 1 1g Lt 


Sloka 1 — When Saturn in his Ashtakavarga transits bhavas 
containing 8 to 0 bindus, the results are as follows— 


8 bindus 


Lee] 


2 
l 
0 


bindu 


one becomes the head of a village, town or 
becomes a Roval chamberlain : 


one gets female slaves, asses, camels : 


one gets respect from leaders of thieves and 
forest tribes : 


one gets huge quantities of agricultural pro 
duce ; 


moderate happiness and misery :- 


loss of wealth, servants, women and happi 
ness : : 


imprisonment, anxiety or sickness : 
uncouth in all actions : 


loss of everything. 


Additional results given by other authors for the above — 


? 


1 
0 


9. warerferqay 
3. aenorsra 


bindus 


bindu 


poverty : 
sickness : 
possibility of death. 


2, wade 
8. ARISE ATat 


154 aeanaat: 


Saturn's Ashtakavarga 


firerat wargaftarce averreng af 112 1 


Sloka 2 — When Satum transits a Kakshya having a bindu in 
his Ashtakavarga he confers wealth by way of legacy, success 
in undertakings through a minister of a king, contacts with 
virtuous people, land, victory against cheats, interest in sacred 
and religious duties (G14, @I and 344) sweetmeats, boon from 
a King and increase in agricultural produce. 


fag we qohrract 
urat wetfienafiahadercrat | 
Prien wat agar yar: aferat 
gferwett watt at ae arey era 3 I 
Sloka 3 — While transiting a Kakshva void of a bindu, he 
causes misery, fear from a King, increase of troubles from or 
to relatives, accidental wounds from weapons, loss of money, 


mental agitation in diverse wavs, loss of land or quarrels. 
distortion of mind and loss in travel. 


WAERRITAASA HATA | 
wena wT aerge faery i 


ASHTAKAVARGA 155 


Sloka 4 — The 8th house from Satum is called the house of 
death. One should find out one's own longevity from the 
Ashtakavarga of Saturn. 


Sanat aad Tat aa 
eratfenent piers weet arerferarar eter | 
Cage RATHI Wael Ws crarateatar— 
RAPSSAATH ATA TET LY UI 
Sloka 5 — When Saturn transits a rasi (bhava) containing the 
highest number of bindus in his Ashtakavarga, acquisition of 
servants,agricultural work, etc., will prove fruitful. Agriculture on 
a small scale, quarters for untouchables and other servants, 
places for refuse, privy, dungcakes, firewood, etc., should be 
located in one's residence in the direction indicated by the 
rasi (bhava) having highest number of bindus. 


weet a UR: aareat Beast 

wraferart face warera mdtsherta Way AT le UL. 
Sloka 6 — Find which bhava has the minimum number of 
bindus in the Ashtakavarga of Saturn. Some sort of trouble will, 
be happening daily at the time when that bhava (rasi) rises. Also 


when the Sun transits that house. the whole period (one month) 
‘will cause danger or death. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Makara has only | bindu. 


waTenat Fat ae wet Wel 
aa arfer wet wer wer ae TATA Lhe | 
oat daast aq amt wt ata 
SSAA BT FT SMA IC UI 
Sloka 7. 8— Find out a bhava having no bindu in the Ashtakavarga 


of Satum. When Satum transits that house. no (good) results 
promised by the bhava will happen. 


If the Sun and the Moon along with Saturn transit the said 
house and if the Dasa or Apahara of a Maraka planet is in 


156 ema: 
progress, death may take place. If the Dasa and Apahara are 
both bad, death is the result without doubt. 
WANT 
ween sat sah vat 
Age MEHE Are aT are ale Feq | 


wa aeoeat Prafed flac AT AT 
Praoat ads wt gemsted 
wae Ah TAT wy tenrafeea: 11 
aMvSqancaaiad Tage Wud AIET 
amend cass at ae weiss SI | 
TAY FRAT HATA AGUAS | 
were eats rer aa BAT aT TATA 18 
wad dafageat cavraTeay J ET | 
AMMAR ATA Tat PrTAAY BR: BAq | 10 
Slokas 9, 10— Find the total of bindus from the Lagna to : 
Saturn (inclusive of both the houses); and from Satur to the ~ 
Lagna. In the years represented by these totals and also in the 
year of the sum of these two totals, one gets bodily afflictions or 
death or goes to a foreign country. In the same years also, one 
suffers from loss of wealth or untold miseries and if during any 
one of these three years, the Dasa or Apahara of a weak (or 
Maraka) planet is in progress, death is sure to happen. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :— 


(1) bindus from the Lagna to Saturn 5, 3, 5, 4, 2, 2, 3, 1 


(2) bindus from Saturn to the Lagna 1, 2, 6, 3, 3, 5 = 20; 
(3) the toal of the above two items, i.e., 25 + 20 = 45, 


ASHTAKAVARGA 157 


TAA TTOMATAT TIS AAT ATTA Ye 
WeUraaTAaasa arentgaryy TAT Beat | | 


BUTT PAAR FS 

WRT pHa Treat aT 
wafatagniagga Tax 

BR. Gay MTT: 1 122 1 


Sloka 11 — When Satur passes through a bhava which is void 
of a bindu in his Ashtakavarga the person born under thisYoga 
will meet with death or incur loss of wealth. If Saturn is in a 
Kendra associated with I, 2, 3 or 4 bindus and this house 
happens to be his exaltation sign, any child born will be short- 
lived. 


Sloka 12 — When Saturn possessed of strength and associated 
with 6 or 5 bindus is in the 1st bhava, the person concerned 
experiences much sorrow even from birth and will undergo loss 
of wealth. If he is in his debilitation or inimical house and is 


158 sepa: 


associated with 5 or more bindus, the person will have long life 
provided the Moon is in an auspicious Varga (Ref. Chap. IV- 
Verse 17). 


arefarereg FaRRgT WATE 110211 


Sloka 13 — When Saturn, in combust, in an inimical house or 
in debilitation, is associated with 5 or 4 bindus and occupies the 
5th or Ist bhava, a native will have female slaves, camels and 
wealth. If such Satum is associated with 8 bindus, the native 
will be the head of towns, well-versed in the administration and 
diplomacy ; if the number of bindus is 7, the person born will be 
very wealthy. 

Notes : Saturn cannot be associated with 8 bindus as he does 
not contribute a bindu in the house occupied by him. Therefore 
7 bindus will be the maximum. (Read 6 bindus where 7 aré 
mentioned and 7 bindus where 8 are mentioned). 


weareat afearerasft faeiter eat afe gafa: =r 
at Gecaget at Acyeaga HT ee 1 


Sloka 14 — After both the reductions, if the house occupied by 
Satum and the 7th from that are both devoid of bindus, the 
native will meet with an accidental or unnatural death in a 
deserted place. 

If both the above houses have bindus and the donors of 
these bindus are in friendly and other good houses, death will 
take placc amidst his relatives and. friends. 


Devakeralam and other works— 
1. When Saturn is in the Lagna with no bindu the result 
is death or loss of property or great sickness. 
2. If Saturn is in debilitation, in the Lagna or in an 


inimical house with more than 4 bindus and is aspected 
by a benefic. the person will have a longs life. 


10. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 159 


When Saturn is associated with 4 or 5 bindus and 
occupies debilitation, inimical house or-is in combust, 
the person will be riding on horses, elephants, camels 
and other conveyances and will be rich. 

When Satur debilitated. in Navamsa occupies the 
Lagna or the 5th house associated with more than’ 4 
bindus, the person will be poor and suffering from 
diseases in neck such as Goitre, Laryngitis, etc. 
Saturn in the Lagna or the 4th house, with 3 or 4 
bindus, will make a person short-lived if. the said 
Saturn is not in exaltation or in his own house. 
Saturn in a Kendra or Trikona occupving his own 
house in rasi and Navamsa associated with | to 3 
bindus, makes a person earn wealth by various means. 
When Saturn as the lord of the 9th and 10th houses 
is in the 3rd, 6th or 11lth house, associated with 3 
bindus, the person becomes a King or equal to a King. 


_ (This can happen only in Vrishabha Lagna). 


When Satur is in his own house with 4 bindus. and 
that happens to be the 2nd house (Makara Lagna) or 
the 12th house (Kumbha Lagna) and other malefics 
are in Trikona to the Lagna, the person will be a 
beggar throughout his life. 

When the lord of the 8th house from the Lagna or 
Saturn, is in an inimical house or in combust and 
without any benefice aspect, the person will be a life- 
long beggar. 

When there is a benefic in the 8th house from the 
Lagna or. from Satur : and the lord of that house is - 
powerful, the native will enjoy full happiness through- 
out his life. : 
Saturn and the Moon in the Lagna associated with 
more than 4 bindus bring great poverty. But, if they 
are in other Kendras, the person becomes a King or 
one equal to a King. 


160 


12. 


13. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


20. 


 gpseqpert: 


When Saturn is in Mesha, Mars in Makara each with 
4 bindus (in Saturn's Ashtakavarga) and the lord of 


’ the 8th house is weak,the person is poor and afflicted 


with Gout or Rheumatism. 


When Mars in debilitation with 1 bindu (in Satum’'s 
Ashtakavarga) is conjoint with or aspected by Satum, 
the person will be sickly and sorrowful sometimes, and 
at other times prosperous and happy. 


When Mars as the lord of the Lagna and the 8th house 
is in the 9th house with Satum and is associated or 
aspected by the Sun, the person will be fickle-minded 
and short-lived. (This hapens only in Mesha Lagna). 


When the lords of the 4th, 8th and 12th houses have 
association with or aspect from Satum and the Moon 
is in the 6th, 8th or the 12th house, the person will be 
short-lived. 


The death takes place in a foreign place when Satum 
is associated with | to 3 bindus in any bhava. 


When malefics arc in the 10th house, Saturn and Rahu 
in the 9th and the lord of the 10th house from the 10th 
is Venus, the person will go on a pilgrimage and will 
have a bath in the holy Ganges (This can hapen only 
in Mesha and Vrischika Lagnas). 

When Satur with 2 or 3 bindus is in the 2nd house 
and is aspected or conjoined with the lord of the 2nd 
house, the person will go on a pilgrimage to the sacred 
rivers. 

When Satum with 3 bindus is in the 10th house 
conjoined with the lord of the 10th, the person will be 
living in a foreign place: 

When Saturn is in the 2nd house and the lord of the 
2nd house .is weak, the person will commit heinous 
and sinful decd and will meet with an ignoble end, even 
when there is a Rajayoga. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 161 


waeanter Rea gem auf frat) 
yarenenera fe ye fos getrafracgaeTs | 4 1 


Sloka 15 - The causes of loss, misfortune, etc., and unfavourable 
years should be considered form the Ashtakavarga of Saturn. 
The Shuddhapinda arrived at after the reductions and multiplica- 
tions as done previously, should be considered by the intelligent 
people for finding the results attributable to Saturn. 


ware wg frecegunt SS at at GAT Re UI 


Sloka 16 - Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Saturn by the number 
of bindus (before the reductions) in the 8th house form Saturn 
and divide the product by 27. find the asterism represented by the 
remainder counted form Aswini. When Satum transits that 
asterism or its trines, death of the native may take plate. 


Multiply the Shodhyapinda of Saturn by (1) the number of 
bindus (before the reductions) in the house occupied. by Jupiter 
‘and (2) by the number of bindus.(before the reductions) in the 
house occupied by the Sun. Divide the$e two products by 12 and 
find the remainders. Count that much form Mesha house. The 
first ‘remainder shows the house occupied by Jupiter and the 
second, the house occupied by the Sun (solar month) when death 
of the native may happen. 


Notes : |. In the Standard Horoscope Saturn's Shodhyapinda 153 
x 3 (bindus in the 8th house form him before the reductions) = 
765 divided by 27 leaves remainder 9. counted form Aswini this 
gives Aslesha. When Saturn transists Aslesha or its trines the 
death of the native may take place. 


; 2. 153x2 (bindus in the house occupied by jupiter in Saturn's 
Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 306 divided by 12 leaves 
remainder 6, 1.¢., Kanya house (counted from Mesha) which 


162 wean: 


when transitted by Jupited, death of the native may take place. 


3. 153 x 4 (bindus in the house occupied by the Sun in 
Saturn's Ashtakavarga before the reductions) = 612 divided by 12 
leaves 0 remainder, i.e., Meena house which when transitted by 
the sun, death of the native may take place. 


All the above three conditions have to be satisfied, i.., 
Saturn, Jupiter and the Sun should pass simultaneously through 
the respective positions as above, at the time of the native's 
death. 


Rree wrarahtrefroaareatgaeser | Ie 1) 
Sloka 17 - Multiply the shodhyapinda of Saturn- 
(1) by the number 7 ; (2) by the number of bindus (before the 
reductions) in the house occupied by Saturn. 
Divide the respective products by 27 and find the remainders. 
Add these two remainders together and subtract 27, if the total 
exceeds 27. 0 
Find out the-asterisms represented by the above three remainders 
counted form Aswini. When Satur transits any one of them, the 
‘ death of the native may take place. Notes : In the Standard 
Horoscope :- 1. Saturn's Shodhyapinda 153 x 7 = 1071 divided by 
27 leaves remainder 18. Counted from Aswini this gives Jyeshta. 
2. 153 x 1 (bindu in the house occupied by Saturn before the 


reductions) = 153 divided by 27 leaves remainder 18, ic. 
Jyeshta. 


3. The sie ara 18 + 18 = 36 minus 27 = 9, ie., Aslesha. 


recreates 
Se Set ee I 


ASHTAKAVARGA 163 


fPremrahiftreamt a went dasa 
anita defea® wt me AT 
war agaatt weq Wraeea 
ferdtearerect safteresrer WAT RC 11 
Sloka 18 - Multiply the sum of the bindus from the Lagna to 
Satum (both inclusive) by the number 7 and divide the product by 


27. The remainder shows the asterism (from Aswini) which 
. when transited by Satum brings loss of wealth and happiness. 


Also, transit over the asterism indicated by the remainder 
arrived by multiplying the Shuddhapinda of Saturn by the number 
of bindus in the 8th house from the Lagna and divided by 27, 
gives the same effects. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :- 

The sum of the bindus from the Lagna to Satum is 25 (5, 
3, 5, 4, 2, 2, 3, 1). The product is 25 x 7 = 175 divided by 27, 
leaves the remainder 13. Counted from Aswini this gives Hasta 
which when transitted by Satum brings loss of wealth and 
hapiness. 


2. Satum's Shodhyapinda 153 x 1 (bindu in the 8th house 
from the Lagna before the reductions) = 153 divided by 27 leaves 
remainder 18. Counted from Aswini this gives Jyeshta. 


garde Ta ae AAS aT BRE 
TTMT 
Peatttceettet art a1 
Res Fea PORTO: THe: | 
Waa ss Heya FeTsT | | 
g. WiRaget | 


CHAPTER XIII 
MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS 


craters fener aff at weet 
eager vata viager faery 
aeaeaegated aft GaCs: 
wagarrace fares ATL 
Sloka | - When the Moon is in the Ist or 7th bhava and is not 
aspected by Jupiter, a Kemadruma Yoga (poverty Yoga) is 
formed. Similarly when planets are associated with few bindus 
in their Bhinnashtakavargas and are without strength, effects like 
poverty Yoga are noticed. 


REAR WMS TSA: | 

wae SI Rat Wess PIR 1 

wea Uerwart 8S seeokraqi! 
Slokas 2,3 - It is auspicious to choose the cardinal directions in 
one’s own house represented by the bhavas (rasis) having the 
maximum number of bindus in the respective Bhinnashtakavargas 
of the planets for the following:- 
Location of worship from the Sun ; 
Location of water from the “Moon ; 
Location of kitchen from Mars : 


Location of study-room from Mercury (gutfeqemeer) 
Location of Khajana, (Safe-deposit) from Jupiter 


(Rife) 
6. Location of bedroom and Zanana from Venus ; 
7. Location of refuse, lavatory, fuel, etc., from Satum, 


viiser gt ze soghegut: 
geraishracaene stata: | 
arficare fen 
Tet Pt freed feet erode 


ws wn - 


ASHTAKAVARGA 165 


Sloka 4 - When the Sun is in an unfavourable position he causes 

afflictions to the head and face due to impunities in bile; the Moon 
in a similar position afflicts the heart and neck due to phlegm; 
Mars afflicts the back and the belly portions due to blood 
disorders; Mercury, the joints of the limbs such as arms and legs, 
nervous affliction due to excess of bile, phlegm 
and wind; 

Jupiter affects the loins and shanks due to excess of 
phlegm ; Venus, the thighs, private parts and scrotum due to 
excess of bile and phlegm and Saturn affects the buttocks and 
anal parts due to wind troubles. 


featteafhe we afew wee FaTAT A  U 


Sloka 5 - (1) Add the bindus from the Lagna to Mars (both 
houses inclusive) and from Mars to the Lagna, in Mars’ 
Ashtakavarga. In the years represented by these totals. there will 
be incessant miseries and danger from weapon and fire. 

(2) Add the bindus from Satur jto Mars .and vice versa 
(both houses inclusive) in Mars’ Ashtakavarga. In the years 
represnted by these totals there will be danger from weapons, 
when the Lagna is not occupied by a benefic. 

(3) Add the bindus from Saturn to Mars and vice versa 
(both houses inclusive), in Saturn's Ashtakavarga. In these years 
there will be danger from bruises, etc. 

(4) Repeat the same process from Rahu to Satur (in 
Saturn's Ashtakavarga). In these years there will be loss of 
happiness. 

Notes : Results in respect of items 3 and 4 above should be 
watched. 


greacadaarardat Part 
ee ee aes 


ageatte at ary agate: 1 1g I 


CHAPTER XIll 
MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS 


wraaa ferat aff ar acer 
wate vase faery 
weacttargateat ate Gata: 
Saganracer fray Tiel 

Sloka \ - When the Moon is in the Ist or 7th bhava and is not 
aspected by Jupiter, a Kemadruma Yoga (poverty Yoga) is 
formed. Similarly when planets are associated with few bindus 
in their Bhinnashtakavargas and are without strength, effects like 
poverty Yoga are noticed. 


CRATE MNS TST: | 

wars Tat = WAATTAA IRA 

Wee Veet MS aeerakrry 1 | 
Slokas 2,3 - It is auspicious to choose the cardinal directions in 
one's own house represented by the bhavas (rasis) having the 
maximum number of bindus in the respective Bhinnashtakavargas 
of the planets for the following:- 
Location of worship from the Sun ; 
Location of water from the “Moon ; 
Location of kitchen from Mars : 
Location of study-room from Mercury (guifeqereen) 
Location of Khajana, (Safe-deposit) from Jupiter 

(qos) 

6. Location of bedroom and Zanana from Venus ; 
7. Location of refuse, lavatory, fucl, etc., from Saturn, 


weiss qa Re Haghegue 
eratshractacnestersta: | 
aiercarsrafen- 
hea Fer rere fee Soe et 


wh Wn = 


ASHTAKAVARGA 167 


Sloka 7 - Find the Shodhyavashishta in the Ashtakavarga of any 
planet. Multiply this figure by the number of bindus (before the 
reductions) in the Karaka bhava of the respective planet reck- 
oned from the house occupied by the planet. Divide the product 
by 27 and find the asterism (counted from Aswini) corresponding 
to the remainder. When Saturn transits this asterism, the death of 
the person indicated by this Karaka planet may happen. If the 
Karaka is the Sun, the father dies or a_ person of the like status; 
if the Moon, the mother or a person of the like status; if Mars, 
a borther; if Mercury, a relative; if Jupiter, a son; if Venus, wife 
and if Saturn, the native himself. When due to other strong Yogas 
death of the person is not to occur there will be great loss of 
. wealth and property during this period. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope multiply the Shodhyavashishta 
figure for the Sun 16 x 4 (the number of bindus in the 9th house 
from the Sun before the reductions in the Sun's Ashtakavarga) = 
64. Dividing by 27, the remainder is 10, indicating Magha. The 
father's death may take place when Saturn transits this asterism 
or there will be great loss of weath, etc. To find the time of the _ 
mother's death, multiply the Shodhyavashishta figure for the 
Moon by the number of bindus in the 4th house from the Moon 
before the reductrions in the Moon's Ashtakavarga and find the 
asterism. In the same way, the time of death of other relations 
is calculated from the Ashtakavargas of the other Karaka planets 
(Refer Notes under verse 38, Chap. IV). 


g Renfesrantagetacect | 
wared frais Rrewnsys fronfeqgana: ret ws aT 11 1 
Sloka 8 - In order to find the time of death of the father, the 
mother and other relatives, multiply the Shodhyapinda of the 
Karaka planet (as referred to in the previous verse) by the 
number of bindus (before the reductions) in the relevant bhava 
reckoned from the position of the Karaka planet and divide the 
product by 27. Saturn's transit through the asterism represented 
by the remainder counted from Aswini, brings about the death of 
the respective person. 
¢, Beeesatr | 


168 wea: 


Notes :In the previous verse. Shodhyavashishta is taken into 
consideration, while in this verse Shodhyapinda is multiplied. 


In the Standard Horoscope multiply the Shodhyapinda of 
the Sun 204 x 4 (the number of bindus in the 9th house from 
the Sun before the reductions in the Sun's Ashtakavarga) = 816. 
Diving by 27 the remainder is 6, i.e., Ardra. 


Tega Wet aaarorah Recarenyq | 
HPA THAT TAT ACTA : 118 


Sloka 9 - When Rahu is in either Dhanus or Meena (in the natal 
chart) and Jupiter transits that rasi or its trines, that period will 
bring misfortune to the person, or if Rahu and Jupiter are in 
conjunction in a natal chart and when Jupiter transits that rast or 
its trines, that period will bring misfortune to the person. 


When Jupiter trasits the asterism occupied by the lord of 
the 6th house (or its trines), there is fear of death. When the 
same asterism (or its trines) is transitted by Satum death may 
occur. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mars the lord of the 6th 
house is in Magha. The transit of Jupiter or Saturn over it brings 
the said results. 


si : 
alfa afeteret aferarishe ar Festag: aa are 
rT TAT 
Slokas 10, 11 - When Rahu transits the tines rasis with reference 
to the Dwadasamsa rasi of the lord of the 8th house, and the Sun 
transits the trine rasis of the rasi occupied by the lord of the 8th 
house at the same time, death may occur. 


Convert the Sun's longitude into minutes and mutliply that 
figure by Rahu's longitude in minutes. Divide the product by the 
minutes in the Chakra (21,600). The dividend convered into signs, 
degrees and minutes and added to the Sun's position, gives rasi 


ASHTAKAVARGA 169 


position which when transitted by the Sun, brings about the death 
of the native or it may happen when the Sun transits the trine 
rasis of the same. 

Convert Mars' longitude into minutes and multiply that by 

the Sun's longitude in minutes. Divide the product by the minutes 
in the Chakra. The dividend converted into signs, degrees and 
minutes and added to the Sun's position, gives rasi position (or its 
. trines) which when transitted by the Sun brings distress or 
suffering and weakness. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the lord of the 8th ae is 
Saturn and he is in Makara 16°-11' His Dwadasamsa rasi is 
Kataka. When Rahu transits Kataka, Vrischika or Meena and at 
the same time the Sun transits Makara, Vrishabha or Kanya, the 
death of the native may take place. 


The Sun's longitude 48-29°-40' = 8980' 
Rahu's longitude 08-6°-20' = 380' 
The product is 8980 x 380 = 34,12,400 


Dividing by 21.600; 34,12,400 / 21.600 = 158' = 05-2°-38' 


Adding to the Sun's longitude. 48-29°-40! 
Os. 20.38" 
58. 2°-18' 


i.e. Kanya, Makara or Vrishabha 

Mars' longitude 48-7.]' = 7,621' 

The Sun's longitude  48-29°-40' = 8.980' 

Product = 7621 x 8980 = 6,84,36,580 

Divided by 21.600; 6,84,36,580 / 21.600 = 3,168'= 18-22°-48' 

The Sun's longitude 48-299-40' 
65-22°-28' 

ie. Tula, Kumbha orMithuna 


170 wea: 


aqawe s- 

FHRECHA:, CAM Tet: CECH: | 

aalerarecected GroeTHT TRS 1 | 
aterarmrd at Pet aa Prearqs 

aeafrart fag. <araer aft war aaah ar 
aerarr ware aft Pea haeaareseeeaNSy TAT 1 123 1 


Sloka 12 - When the Moon in her course comes in trine to the 
lord of the 8th house or to the Navamsa rasi occupied by the lord 
of the 8th, death should be predicted as a certainty, if on that day 
the sum of the bindus associated with the planets in the bhavas . 
occupied by them (in their Bhinnashtakavargas) is very little. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Saturn, the lord of the 8th 
house is in Makara rasi and Vrishabha Navamsa. When the 
Moon transits, the trine rasis of Makara or Vrishabha, death may 
take place if the sum of the dindus is very little on that dav. 


SATE ATTA: WATT Wart TAT | 
FATA war geaarea Vegheiaq 1123 1 


Sloka 13 - (1) When the rasi representing the 64th Navamsa, 
reckoned from the Lagna or the Moon, is rising; or (2) the 7th 
house rasi from the 8th bhava (i.e., the 2nd house rasi) is rising; 
or (3) the 7th house rasi from the Lagna is rising ; one departs 
from this world if any one of these rising signs is devoid of 
bindus (has the least number of bindus) in the Lagnashtakavarga 
and the Dasa during that time is that of an adverse planet. 
Notes : The 64th Navamsa rasi will be the 4th bhava from the 
indicator's Navamsa rasi. 

In theStandard Horoscope Longitude of the Lagna is 28-4°-37' 
Longitude of the Moon is 65-13°-34' 

One Navamsa = 35-20° ; 

63 Navamsas = 35-20° x 63 = 210 = 7 signs which added to:- 
the Lagna = 98-4°-37' - Navamsa rasi of which is Kumbha ; 
the Moon = 15-]39-34' Navamsa rasi of which is Vrishabha. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 171 


Longitude of the 8th house 95-2°-41' ; its 7th will be 35-2°-41' 

ie., Kataka rasi 

Longitude of the Lagna 28-4°-37' ; 7th house will be 85-4°-37' i.e., 
Dhanus rasi 

Therefore, when out of Kumbha, Vrishabha, Kataka or Dhanus, 
the one which is devoid of bindus in the Lagnashtakavarga 
(having the least number of bindus) rises, death of the native 


may take place. 
we TSTEASHT aT 
wrens Aa AT SAT NY II 


Sloka 14 - (1) If the lord of the 8th house from the Lagna is in 
debilitation; or (2) the Moon is in the 6th or 8th house from the 
lord of the 8th; or (3) an inimical planet is in the 8th house from 
the Lagna, death may take place when the Sun transits any of the 
above rasis. 


eee Ree eTa Fe 41 
WATER 


yeyrerat ye 
Prerteraat wrath 1 126 1 


Slokas 15, 16 - A ane: to find the position of Pramana 
(authorised) Gulika and therefrom the positions of Saturn, Jupiter, 
the Sun and the Moon at the time of death, is given in other 
Shastras which is given below. 

For a person born in the day time, find the positon of 
Gulika of the previous night and add 6 signs(180..) to that. For a 
birth during night, take the position of Gulika of that day (before 
sunset). This is the Pramana Gulika. 

Death may take place when (a) Satur comes to the rasi 
occupied by the lord of the Pramana Gulika rasi; (b) Jupiter 
comes to the rasi occupied by the lord of the Navamsa_rasi of 
the Pramana Gulika: (c) the Sun comes to the rasi occupied by 


172, seat: 


the lord of the Dwadasamsa rasi of the Pramana Gulika; and (d) 
the Moon comes to the rasi occupied by the lord of the 
Trimsamsa degree of the Pramana Gulika. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the birth is on Monday night. 
The position of Pramana Gulika will be as for that day with the 
necessary diurnal correction. It is at 22 GH. 4 Pal. and the rising 
sign at that time is 9-6°-6' The Pramana Gulika occupies:- 
(a) the rasi Makara and its lord Satum is in Makara ; 
(b) the Navamsa Kumbha and its lord Saturn is in Makara ; 
(c) the DwadasamsaMeena and its lord Jupiter is in Kanya ; and 
(d) the Trimsamsa of Mercury and its lord is in Kanya. 
Therefore when Saturn is in Makara, Jupiter in Makara, the Sun 
in Kanya and the Moon in Kanya, the death of the native may 
take place. 

Petaerat way TTT | 

after warcaity errrervarteater: | io 1 


Sloka 17 - Out of the many rasis obtained by the various 
methods to find the positions of Saturn, Jupiter, the Sun and the 
Moon, find out which of them contain the least number of bindus 
in their individual Ashtakavargas. When the respective planets 
transit those rasis death of the native may take place. 


ARATRSTRER HHT ASL FATT | 
SPUN AAT WET AAT: ATTRISTMAT AT LS 


Sloka 18 - When the planets transit rasis: (1) which are in the 
2nd, 12th, Sth or 9th bhava from the Lagna (natal chart) or 
thePrasna-Lagna (question time Lagna); (2) which contain the 
least number of bindus in their Bhinnashtakavargas: and (3) 
which have the least aspect from the respective planets, death of 
the person may take place: if not, some misfortune. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the 2nd, 12th, Sth and 9th 
bhavas are Kataka, Vrishabha, Tula and Kumbha. Taking saturn 
for escanple there are 3,3,2 and 3 bindus in his Ashtakavarga in 
the above four bhavas. Kumbha has the least aspect from 
Saturn. Therefore death may take when Satur comes to Kumbha. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 173 


In the same manner the other planets also should be considered. 
TRA STUNTS ATT yah TT 
mraisa deerme aft ar ara fart ware 


we deat qd age aievety ar 

Wyaray aareafret: dare geafeae 1 128 1 

gee colle deni 
warad: | 


a feen: oe 
PaaS AAT ALT YaHSTaT WHA: 1 1R0U 

Slokas 19, 20 - Death may take place when (1) the Moon comes 
(a) in trine to the Yoga Sphuta rasi corresponding to the sum of 
the longitudes of the Sun and Saturn (expunging 12 if necessary) 
or (b) in trine to the 7th rasi from the Yoga Sphuta; rosi or ce 
to the Naransas rasi of the yoga bphata and (2) the Sun comes . 
(a) in trine to the Yoga Sphuta rasi corresponding to the sum of 
the longitudes of the Sun and the lord of Drekana occupied by 
Satum or (b) in trine to the 7th house of the Yoga Sphuta; rosi 
or (C) to the Navamsa rasi of the yoga Sphuta and (3) Jupiter 
comes (a) in trine to the Yoga Sphuta rasi corresponding to the 
sum of the longitudes of the Sun and the lord of the Navamsa of 
Saturn or (b) in trine to the 7th house of the Yoga Sphuta rasi 
or (c) to the Navamsa of theYoga Sphuta: and (4) Saturn comes 
(a) in trine to the Yoga Sphuta rasi_ corresponding to the sum of 
the longitudes of the Sun and the lord of the Dwadasamsa of 
Satum or (b)in trine to the 7th house of the Yoga Sphuta rasi or 
(c) to the Navamsa of the Yoga Sphuta. Death will be certain 
when these conditions agree with the positions arrived by the 
“Navamsa multiplication method given below:- 

Write down the longitude of the planet (in rasi, degrees 
and minutes) at birth in two places. Multiply the first by the 
number of Navamas elapsed from Mesha (each rasi contains 9 
Navamsas) upto the Navamsa occupied by the planet and 
convert the minutes, degrees, etc. to degrees and rasis, expunging 
cycles of 12. Bring down the longitude in the second place into 


174 aaa: 


minutes and multiply that by the number of minutes elapsed in the 
Navamsa occupied by the planet. Divide this product by 200 
(minutes in one Navamsa) and convert the quotient which is in 
minutes into degrees and rasis. Add this to the first product. 
When the planet passes through the rasi and position: thus 
obtained or through the position obtained by deducting this from 
12 rasis, death may take place. In this manner the positions of all 
the planets at the time of death should be calculated from their 
respective longitudes. It is this method which is mentioned in the 
previous verse as fareryfere: | 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope (1) for the Moon :- 
Long of the Sun — 48-29-40" 
Long of Satum 98-16°-11' 
28-15°-51' : 

This gives Mithuna and its trines or Dhanus and its trines 
or Kumbha (Navamsa). 
(2) for the Sun :- 


Long of the Sun 48-29°-40! 
Long of lord of Drek, of Sat. i-e., Venus — 68-1 5°-37' 
1 18-15°-17' 


This gives Meena and its trines or Kanya and its trines or 

Vrischika (Navamsa). ; 
(3) for Jupiter same position as for the Sun. 
(4) for Satum Meena trine or Kanvya trine or Tula (Navamsa). 

NAVAMSA MULTIPLICATION METHOD. 

The Sun 

Long 48-29°-40' Number of Navamsas elapsed 44 : 

Number of minutes in unexpired Navamsa 180’. 


48-29°-40! 

x44 4s.29%49' x 180. 8980 x 180 _ 202, 
33.15°-20! . 200 200 
48- 149-4?! = 48.1404" 


88-0"-2' which gives Dhanus or Kataka (defect from 12 rasis). 


ASHTAKAVARGA 175 


The arrived results for the Moon and other planets are the Moon- 
Mithuna or Makara : Jupiter- Kumbha or Vrishabha; Saturn - 
Kataka or Dhanus. 


weary Y art Yar wanag | 

aisentagacren AaHAY LR! 

Wag WIAA Aa wrasS HA | 

Heat J waa Wert fat AAT! 
Slokas 21, 22 - Bhavas which are auspicious (by having more 
than 28 dindus in the Samudayashtakavarga or more than 4 
bindus in the Bhinnashtakavarga of a planet) are good for all 
functions. Hence one should select such bhavas. The auspicious 
bhav from the Moon's position may be availed of when no 
auspicious Ashtakavarga bhavas are available and the moment 
an Ashtakarva bhava is available the Moon's Gochara bhava is 
not effective. 


Notes : This shows that for all auspicious functions the strength 
of a bhava should be judged by the Ashtakavarga alone, irrespec- 
tive of Gochara position from the Moon (favourable or 
unfavourable). 
AI = 
Treat aeat ancatet ert ay | 
ware sen eee TTA 
aya 
Tete yee feehsa ast gre 11 
THATHTS :- 
POTIUATSY TEMAS | 
adel B Hd Trae weft a1 1 
main & Yard War. aaadg | 
aerate: eye ufseg Tat 


176 apeenet: 


wad Tree Bes aeampftescanty | 
jerTeMega Paseo aay ORAL 
Elsewhere :- 
mae Vea: Tae fs AT AeA | 
TeNcainerage eer yat wade ffs 11 
wt f eat fraresaiisa Fae | 
farare: Wyeast TAA HTT IRI II 


Sloka 23 - Having explained the Bhinnashtakavargas and their 
effects, the method of computing and reading the 
Samudayashtakavarga is now explained. 


CHAPTER XIV 
SAMUDAYASHTAKAVARGA 


we: wateniess wagearakrarsy | 
Takara fears ahr 12 1 


Sloka | - Again draw up a diagram of the horoscope showing the 
aggregate number of bindus in the several bhavas, indicated by 
Mesha and other rasis in the Ashtakavargas of the Sun and other 
planets. 1 shall now explain the effects of the bindus contained in 
the several bhavas. 


6 5 5 4 5 1 
ORE 


178 arena: 


Notes : The aggregate of the bindus in each of the bhavas 
contributed by the 7 planets and the Lagna in all the 7 
Bhinnashtakavargas, is known as the Samudayashtakavarga 
(Wyararea), The table above shows the figures of binuds in the 
12 bhavas for the Samudayashtakavarga of the Standard Horo« 
scope. The Samudayashtakavarga is also known as 
Sarvashtakavarga (Waleoa), Vyuhashtakavarga (Zerena, 
Akhilashtakavarga (3itzereaa), Pindashtakavarga (firsreaath, 
Mahashtakavarga (Aete@at) and Sakalashtakavarga 
(weercaa), 


The bindus mentioned in the second column represent the 
Sun's Ashtakavarga figures contained in the 12 bhavas Mesha, 
Vrishabha, etc. Similarly, the bindus in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, etc. 
columns ‘represent the Moon's, Mars’, Mercury's. etc., 
Ashtakavarga figures contained in the 12 bhavas, Mesha, 
Vrishabha, etc. The figures in the last column represent the 
Samudayashtakavarga in the same way. 


Chalita or Bhava Kundali:- 


Wand 
a Rate 4326583 = 28 tea 
STOMAS 


eT) 
Ketu Ven 
baal 2411522] 4559652 = 33 petty 
WIEMWI= Y a8 ate 


In the above diagrams each house contains 7 different figures 
and their total. The first set of figures in all the 12 bhavas is 
the Bhinnashtakavarga of the Sun. The second set the 
Moon's, the third set Mars', etc., and the last and the 7th set 
represents Saturn's Bhinnashtakavarga. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 179 


The total of the figures in each bhava is the Samudaya 
bindus for that bhava. The planets are placed is the Samudaya 
bindus for that bhava. Thus, the Bhinnashtakavargas, 
theSamudayashtakavarga and the bhava positions of the planets 
can be studied from one diagram. 


Sun | Moon 
Bhinnashlakavarga 5 3 
strength ;- 
Samudayashtakavarga , 
strength ;- 27 19 


3 S22 3453979 93 S92 5399 37 
areal aferet camigrearey wit gor: frateenraa | 
4$ 352 3444672 3152661255 73 

AY MP aQaradsge Mews J Tea 1 
22.12 34242473 23 33 4 4234363 

eS WK agate wiht at waeqoininre: | 

32 444334446153 55 26 122 671 

we faaradatesear yet an Mifawtss Arete 13 1 


Slokas 2, 3 - The number of bindus donated in the 12 bhavas 
by the seven planets and the Lagna in the Samudayashtakavarga 
beginning with the sun are as follows :- 


1. The Sun =: 3, 3, 3, 3,-2.3, 4. 5, 3, 5, 7, 2 = 43 
2. The Moon - 2, 3, 5, 2,2. 5. 2 2,2,3. 7, 1, = 36 
3. Mars* -45,3,5,234 4,467, 2 = 49 
4. Mecury - 3, 1, 5, 2,6 6 1. 2, 5, 5, 7, 3 = 46 
5. Jupiter@ - 2, 2, 1, 2.3. 4.2. 4,2, 4,7, 3 = 36 
6. Venus - 2, 3, 3, 3, 4. 4. 2. 3,.4, 3, 6, 3 = 40 
7. Saturn -3624443344 46 1 = 42 
8. The Lagna- 23253526 1.2.2.6 2 1 =.48 

24, 22, 29, 26. 25. 34, 19. 26, 26, 36,54, 16 =337 


180 arent: 


The figures for Mars according to Varahamihira will be 
4,5, 3, 4 3 3 4 4 4 #6 «7, 2. 
@ The figures for Jupiter according to Varahamihira will be 


a a Po a: a, 


In order to find the Samudaya figures in each bhava 
without recourse to summing up their individual Ashtakavarga 
figures the above mnemonic verses are used. 


Each half of the line of the verse refers to the number of 
bindus contributed by each of the 8 donors (the Sun, the Moon 
etc., and the Lagna being the last) in order. To insert the proper 
figure in each bhava, the figure represented by the consonant is 
put down. ; 


For example "atel afers! Wasa" is for the Sun. 
Beginning with the bhava occupied by the Sun, put 3 (4) in that 
bhava and 3 (@) in the 2nd bhava from the Sun and 3 (4) in the 
3rd_bhava, etc. Adding up- these 8 figure given by the 7 planets 
and the Lagna in each bhava, the aggregate in each bhava is 
obtained. The sum of all the totals in the 12 bhavas will be 337 
(€eire) which is the same as given in Chap. II Verse No.!7. 
These figures in‘each bhava can be compared with those arrived 
at by adding bindus in the several Ashtakavargas as shown 
under Verse No.1. (The readers should note that the figures of 
the above mnemonic verses represent the number of bindus 
donated and not the order of places as given in the mnemonic 
verses in Chap.II). 


ASHTAKAVARGA 


Bhavas re 
presented by 


Mesha 


Vrishabha 3 2 


181 


Mithuna 5 2 2 4 3 5 33 
Kataka 7 3 a 4 | 3 3 13 32 
Simha 2 7 3 7 | 6 415 38 


Kanya 3 | 
Tula 3 2 


Vrischika 3 3 


Dhanus 


aaa vara Pearg 

WA HAST ATSTATN ASH: AYATAATAT LS A 
Sloka 4 - Insert in the 12 bhavas the bindu represented by the 
consonants of the verse "arell ferst' for the Sun, "wi", ect ...for 
the Moon, etc., etc., beginning with the bhava occupied by the 
respective planet and the Lagna. The aggregate jof these 
figures in each bhava is the Samudayashtakavarga total of 
that bhava. (The grand total of the figures in all the bhavas 
is 337). 


a yeaahragegeen 8 sree | 


& dhaantactearaet Areva orerafagareagq 1 ty 


192 " gperarent: 


Sloka 5 - Planets in exaltation, their own, a friend's house, in a 
Trikona, a Kendra (Ist, 4th, 7th or 10th house) or an Upachaya 
house or powerful by position in benefic Vargas are not effective, 
if they are associated with less number of bindus (in the 
Samudayashtakavarga). 


os cen 
a 


seas Se 
AX aAaqerHcareataagarrag | 1e 11 


Sloka 6 - Planet, in the 12th, 6th, 8th or 7th. house; or in 
debilitation, in Vargas of malefic and inimical planets ; or 
asociated with the lord of the house occupied by Gulika, are 
obstructors (of good results). Those, associated with more bindus 
are capable of giving all important good results. 

Tea wiseart wert vararisertadentirs aaq* | 
WaT et AAT A He srw: | he 1 
Sloka 7 - Great teachers of Astrology say that bhavas containing 
more than 28 bindus in the Samudavashtakavarga are auspi- 
cious. Those, having less than 28 bindus produce bad effects. 


ge ee eons 
ascfererreg SATA wei: AACA: 1 t 


WHA Ws seat Baristas Aa 
I TT MAR THT ATTA tC 1 


‘Sloka 8 - When a bhava is transitted by many planets 
simultaneously and if that bhava contains the greater number of 
bindus. these planets multiply the good effects of that bhava. 
The nature of the effects will be according to the bhava position 
of this house from the houses occupied by the transiting planets 
at birth and their Karakatva. 
wareansratrea: wera feadt areret wes: | 
Wachet We YH wateaaa ash yet fares is il 


ASHTAKAVARGA 183 


Sloka 9 - When planets in their transit pass though 
bhavas,containmg more bindus mm Samudayashtakavarga they 
produce good effects even when, these bhavas happen to be the 
12th, 6th or 8th from the Lagna. 


afery uURrad. a aa Uafaeierry | 
eaten a aera fea fara 120 11 


Sloka 10 - When a bhava (rasi) containing the least number of 
bindu in the Samudayashtakavarga is rising, one should consult 
(Doctors) and take treatment for ailments; that will be the best 
time to incur debts because the same can be squared up soon. 


Rameat asirareat aft wepfadt cerat a wet: 
TST Aa Her HAT: Efe AAT Werat Asche: | 


witcher wag Y mTay sty FeTy 
VPA AIA Fafaqt TVs 1 1k 1 


Sloka \1- Bhava containing 30 or more indus give very good 
effects; those having 25 to 30 bindus are middling: while bhavas 
having less than 25 bindus produce bad effects. Bhavas contain- 
ing 30 or more bindus should be chosen for all beneficial 
undertakings. Bhavas having less than 25 bindus should be 
avoided for travel. etc. In the matter of wedlock between bride 
and bridegroom if both have 30 or more bindus in their respec- 
tive Janma rasis. the union will be prosperous: if both have less 
then 25 bindus the union will be unhappy. 


TUM :- 
Ameri aaaseat seratanorraaai | 
gente aratalrd aires Prenaart feat aerctat: | | 
Penis garda: wy, wien: 1 
wrerscat aff sed: aera Srey wT AeySET: 1 


WAHT :~ 
aaa wana we aera | 
Baer gaara aaagimcas a aga | 


184 wendy: 


“meat - 
Brenner Fay MTT BAIT: | 
Tere Fel HSS TRAY: HI | 
SrTae = 
ama Fy UT YAIT: | 
UT AAT ATT: 1 | 
acetone 3 Sy UAT: BAT: || 
TSUAG TAT BHA HAT | 
ferararerctery :- 
Brian pat catiraerageeras ae | 
Fen et PEt at aoey sedate quad yy | | 


cet Seal aa 


Sloka 12 - A minimum number of dbindus has been prescribed 
for each of the 12 bhavas beginning with the Lagna. If the 
bindus are less than the standard fixed, the bhavas do not 
prosper, and conversely, if the bindus are more, they prosper.. 
The bindus are as follows:- 


The Lagna 25 7th house 19 
2nd house 22 8th. 24 
3rd, 29 th 29 
4th 24 10th. 36 
sth 25 llth 54 
6th 34 12th. 16 


If the Lagna has more than 25 bindus. the person's 
bearing,body, general appcarance and other things connected 
with the Lagna are good 


ASHTAKAVARGA 185 


Notes : At the time of great dissolution (AéTe74) all the planets 
are at or near the beginning of Mesh and the 12 bhavas beginning 
with the Lagna contain 24, 22, 29, 26, 25, 34, 19, 26, 26, 36, 54 
and 16 bindus in the Samudayashtakavarga chart. But in the 
. verse the Lagna is given 25, the 4th bhava 24, the 8th, 24 and the 
9th, 29. A possible explanation for these variations appears as 
follows:- : 


According to the Sankhya Darshana (Sitesi) the five 
gross elements (T=M{cil:)- earth, water, fire, air and ether; the 
five subtle elements (Wedq413)-smell, taste, form, touch and 
sound ; the five organs of perception (STiFaa)- eve, ear, nose, 
tongue and skin ; the five organs of action (H4f<a)- voice, hands, 
feet and organs of excretion and generation ; the mind, (774) 
intellect, (@f&) egoism (#EHR) and primal nature (Wafe) are the 
24 eternal tattvas. Evolution begins when these are aspected by 
Purusha, the 25th tatfva. 


Sinee birth is an evolution in the process of attaining the 
higher goal variously called Moksha, Nirvana, salvation,ete.. the 
Lagna representing the birth is allotted 25 bindus equal to the 25 
tattas. This makes it equal to the 5th house, 1.e.. the house of 
Purva Punya and further Karma is necessary (for forward 
progress). The progress towards perfection depends on one's 
penance (74) and luck (or divine grace) represented bv the 9th 
bhava and also on moral courage and prowess indicated by the 
3rd bhava. These bhavas, therefore, have been strengthened with 
29 bindus each. The 10th house. ie.. the house of action 
(Karma) is also well strengthened with 36 bindus. The hin- 
drances to the spiritual progress are (1) the family and material 
wealth (2nd bhava). (2) the realtions and property (4th house) 
and (3) love and passion (7th house). Attachment to these. ties 
one down to this material world. Hence the figures in respect of 
these bhavas are kept on a lower scale. The 6th bhava is the 9th 
from the Karma bhava and 10th from the 9th bhava which 

* indicates success in undertakings. This bhava is. therefore strength- 
ened with 34 bindus. Finally. the | ith house (house of gain) 1s 


186 wena: 


well fortified with 54 bindus showing acquisition of great merit. 
more spiritua] than material and the 12th house is given the 
minimum as it represents loss, expenses, etc. 


Watraadtad waka Te 
Ret a Pagdahaedt eat Fara | 
wa {ert watiayrenia dnnies 
ae srenqit waerdedt farm: MATT 113 


Sloka 13 - If the 4th house has more than 24 bindus and 1s not 
aspected or occupied by malefics, or if the 2nd house is free 
' from aspect or occupation by malefics and has more than 22 
bindus. in either of these conditions, the person will inherit the 
ancestral property. 

Conversely, if these two bhavas are aspected or occupied 
by malefics and bindus are less than 24 and 22 respectively, the 
person will not inherit the ancestral property. 

When the 10th bhava has more than 36 bindus and has no 
connection with malefics, the person will lead a happy life with 
wealth earned by his own efforts. 

When the 11th bhava has 54 bindus and has no connec- 
tion with malefics, wealth accrues to him without anv effort. 


ana ar wyase atreay oat qa PARE: 
TRA: ATTA TAA | 
amiga aa aT aay Peet wae 
ant: FATT weskreraet ATA ATTA LAS 1 
Sloka 14 - When the Lagna has more than 25 bindus or the 9th 
house has more than 29 bindus and each has no connection with 
malefics. the person will acquire hidden wealth. (Treasure 


and in modern davs. money through lottery. sweepstakes. 
competitions. etc.). 
The good effects mentioned above will be noticeable after 
the age represented by the number of Ddinc/us in the Lagna. 
When the 12th house has dbindus less than the 11th house. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 187 


the person becomes wealthy:converscly. when the |2th' bhava 
has more bindus than the 11th, he becomes poor. {f the 11th 
house has more bindus than the 10th, the gain will be equal to 
or more than the effort put in; if the bindus are less, the income 
is not up to the amount of effort put in. 


Poieterega: YNAHT FET AT TT: 
ATA TT FRAT WAGaAAACTSTATST: 11 UA 


Sloka 15 - Bhavas prosper when they have the prescribed (or 
more) number of bindus and are aspected or occupied by their 
respective lords or by benefics and have no association or aspect 
from malefics. Conversely, when any bhava has less dbindus 
than the prescribed:number and has an aspect from or occupa- 
tion by malefics and is not connected with benefics, the effects 
of that bhava are quite the reverse. 


feral aries sara qa areas | 
MAT SRT Sa aT aT TAT 


ere TT Sy wat qarrerareara: 1 1e 1 
Sloka 16 - In the Samuday; sishtakavarin add up the bindus in the 
Lagna, 2nd, 4th, 9th, 10th and Ith houses from the Lagna: if this 
total is more than 164 (ffara), the person will be prosperous 
having income more than the expense. If it is less than 164, his 
income is less than the expense, and if it is equal to 164, income 
and expenditure will be equal. 

Find the total of the bindus in the 6th, 8thand 12th bhavas. If 
this total is less than 76 (@l2f), one has income greater than 
expenditure: if the total is greater than-76, less income and more 
expenditure: if cqual to 76, both equal. 

Notes : \n the Standard Horoscope :- Ist-23 : 2nd- 32 : 4th-27 
: Oth-26 : 10th-32 : and I Ith-28 = 178 : and 6th-33 : 8th-23 : and 
12th 28 = 84. 

WTSI AAT 


STN FeTIAA WeaTEeY FATE | 


188 seat: 


MTS Asa Bass AS Ast aT SaTfeHT 1 1e VL 


Sloka 17 - Find the sum of the dindus in the Is, 4th, Sth, 7th. 
9th and 10th houses. These bhavas represent the inner-self of 
the person. If this sum is greater than the outer-self (the sum of 
the remaining 6 bhavas) the person will have contentment, 
learning, knowledge ; and will be doing good deeds and charities. 
Conversely, the person will have worries and will be deceitful. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :- Ist 33 . 4th 27; 5th 19 ; 7th 
18 ; 9th 26 and 10th 32 = 155 ; and 

2nd 32 ; 3rd 38 ; 6th 33; 8th 23 ; 11th 28 and 12th 28 = 182 


after afe drearehirerat TareraHea FAT INS I 
Sloka 18 - The sum of bindus in the Lagna,Sth and 9th houses 
is known as Bandhu; that of 2nd, 6th and 10th houses as 
Sevaka; that of 3rd, 7th and 11th houses as Poshaka figure is 
greater than Ghataka figure, the person will be wealthy. Con- 
versely, if Ghataka figure is greater than. Poshaka and that of 
4th, 8th and 12th houses as Ghataka. If Poshaka figure is greater 
then Ghataka figure, the person will be wealthy. Conversaly, if 
Ghataka figure is greater than poshaka figure. the person will be poor 
Notes : Intensity of richness and poverty depends upon the 
dispartiy of Poshaka and Ghataka figures. If Bandhu figure is 
greater than that of Sevaka, the person has independent means 
of living and good relations. When Sevaka figure is in excess of 
Bandhu figure the person has to serve (ie., he may have a 
superior over him in whatever capacity he works). 

In the Standard Horoscope :- 

Bandshu :-Ist 33, 5th 19, 9th 26 = 78 
Sevaka:- 2nd 32, 6th 33, 10th 32= 97 
Poshaka .- 3rd 38, 7th 18, 11th 28= 84 


ASHTAKAVARGA 189 


Ghataka :- 4th 27, 8th 23, 12th 28= 78 
Be Taal a: aakawad: Ma ere | 
wer: Braet fefaart aad 
 fartererg fad afeataraferanr Serre: 1128 1 


Sloka 19 - Find out the four units in order of the four 
directions :- 


The East: Ist, 12th, 11th bhavas. 
The South: 10th, 9th, 8th 

The West: 7th, 6th, 5th - 
The North 4th, 3rd, 2nd 


When there arc more bindus in a unit, the effects as 
shown in the direction will be good (favourable). When there are 
less bindus, the effeets will be bad (adverse). 


If the direction represented by the unit econtaimng the 
maximum-number of bindus has planets also in those bhavas in 
exaltationown house. etc., there will be complete success in. 
undertakings (started) in that direction. 


There will be acquisition of wealth from the direction 
indicated by the lord of the 2nd house. Death will take place in 
the direction indicated by the lord of the 8th house. 


MaHaestres :- 


Racca vat yaleagieres | 

wena are vere sregh wei ard: 1 | 
SITaNe :- 

afte we faesage fatwa: | 

aay saaty Tart aera | 

Rrevaes frat fare Pray | 

viva firm teeta fseaits 


190 srseqpatt: 


Wes aa Ht aft seat fad =TI 

etrorerent fer wat agqeat AMAT ATI IRM 
Sloka 20 — It will be auspicious to have a cow-house, 
land,agricultural operations, etc., in the direction indicated by the 
best bhava (containing the highest number of bindus). Wealth 
(money, etc.,) deposited in the direction of the bhava indicated by 
the least number of bindus, will be lost soon. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the cardinal directions for 
prospertiy are (1) The North (Brihat-jataka) ; (2) the South 
(Prasnamarga). 


Wee SHAM TAT USAT | 
fai ga afatrergafe are: AHN ACTAT 1 RL 


Sloka 21— A person will get a royal vehicle, wealth, son, great 
knowledge. etc., after attaining the age represented by the 
number of bindus in the Lagna. The above effect will be visible 
only when (in the natal chart) there are combinations (Yogas) 
capable of giving these results and not otherwise. 


Notes : \f the number of bindus in the Lagna and the 1]th house 
are identical and each above 30, then. at or after the age 
represented by that figure, the person will be the recipient of 
some special honours from the King, and will acquire consider- 
able wealth. etc. 


fteritt were erent sdct 7 

TY Wasa seeMTaT AATATGACAT:- VEAAPT ARR 
Sloka 22 — When the lord of the 12th house is in the Lagna in 
Makara or Kumbha asi and the lords of the Ist and 8th houses 


are weak, the person will live as many vears as there are bindus 
in the Lagna. 


Notes : The above seems to be correct only in Makara Lgna for, 
in Kumbha. Saturn will be in his Moolatrikona. 


arene ara areaet crarefisy aeneltaursat: | 
Baedenitea: waar UseiPert Ae: 1123-11 


ASHTAKAVARGA 19] 


Sloka 23 — When the lord of the Lagna is in the 4th house and 
the lord of the 4th is in the Lagna and if there are more than 33 
bindus in each of these houses, the persons will have kingly 
wealth and be lords of men. 


aergarraaag Preraniiratagirg | 

ATT: aga I Us sear earner ger he VIRv 
Sloka 24 — When there are more than 30 bindus in each of the 
3 bhavas, viz.. Ist, 4th and 11th, the person will prosper after his 


40th year and will have personality, abundant wealth and 
kingdom. 


Piaf , . 
wahraranuRratearcart 
qaeerq ve fafa 
Wa GT Wee a AABATSa: 1124 11 


Sloka 25 — lf the number of bindus in each of the bhavas 
beginning. with the 4th and ending with the 9th is between25 to 
30 (fret), the person will be carried in palanquin borne by men, 
i.e., will be as rich as Kubera, after completing 28 years of age. 
Notes ; Kubera is 4Xareatea: and lord of the 9 treasures. 


wares Tee TAGs. weatftafeegaearane | 

DTT TTT ATA TAY TAT TARTS: VRE TL 
Sloka 26 — When Jupiter, in exaltation with 40 bindus, is in the 
4th bhava and the Sun is in Mesha in the Lagna. the person will 
be a king with a command over one lack horses (cavalry). 


fart are vita arta Aesth 
warea A HT ATTA Bra: Taaltee TSA HR UI 


Sloka 27 — When the Lagna has 40 dindus and Jupiter is in 
Dhanus, Venus in Meena, Mars in Makara and Saturn in 
Kumbha, the person will be an emperor blessed with good 
fortune of every kind. 


faPraaaracetiet WAT IRS 1 


Sloka 28 — In the Samudayashtakavarga, if the number of 
bindus in the 1 ith house is more than that in the 10th house and 
the number of bindus in the 12th house is less than that in the 
10th house and if the figure in the Lagna exceeds the figure in 
the 12th house, the person born will enjoy life and wealth. When 
it is otherwise, the native will be poor (verse No.25). 


ATTRA SAT 
Arieaeaaye Feed oTEaTAea ae epee | 
Rearararetirs frat oe: Aah facavraeres: | 1 

wHeTal aaa :- 
HOTA AT TATE TAT STE | 
wea one art trareiarsad 1 

Pree :- 

Fee aT Feaeeorae STT:* | 
aaa Tens art traders | 

strat g fahren ereataRarrcenaty | 
a 


a yaya | 
ee aaa aS a 


Sloka 29-30 — The prosperity of a person should be judged from 
the excess of the number of planets occupying their exaltation, 
own or Trikona houses; from the excess of the number of bindus 
in. the, eleventh bhava over that of the twelfth in the 
Samudayashtakavarga ; from the Sunabha! and other Yogas and 


"When (one or more) planets other than the Sun occupy the 2nd house 
from the Moon, the Yoga is called Sunabha. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 193 


also from other Dhana (wealth-giving) Yogas. One's happiness 
and misery should be gleaned through the strength and weakness 
of Jupiter, Venus, and the Sun at the time of birth. 


a aft: wftrnbircsarne: aera aa 


Ararat, Aaaaa _ Morearee: 112 


Sloka 31 — If Rahu is in the 6th, 8th or the 12th house 
in the natal chart, a person may suffer from snake-bite or food- 
poison at the age represented by the number of bindus in the 
house (occupied by him). -This is all the more probable, if Rahu 
transits the above bhava at that timc. 

There may be injury by weapons at the age indicated by 
the number of bindus in the house occupied by Mars. 

At the age indicated by the number of dbindus in the house 
occupied by Saturn, there will be sickness. sorrow, etc. 


TATA TASIAAA STATA 11311 
Sloka 32 — At the age represented by the number of bindus in 
the house occupied by Jupiter, one may expect a child, 
wealth, etc. 

In the case of Venus, one may expect mariage or marital 
happiness at the corresponding age. In the case of ‘Mercury 
learning of science, intellectual expansion and praise from schol- 
ars may be expected at the age corresponding to the number of 
bindus in the bhava occupied by him. In this way, the 
Samudayashtakavarga shows the period in which the effects due 
to the Karakatva of the planet will be experienced by the. native 


194 arena: 


All the above results (as referred in this and the previous 
verse) are to be predicted only when, there are indications 
according to the horoscope. 


Sraraagiaamyfts avert we 
aasenireafet y areedit Peareqe | 

Wa yaaaiaaaaesiserare fF a 
Srey aakeaany xe Aisa aaTPE ATT: 11233 1 


Sloka 33 — Add the number of bindus in the 4 bhavas 
represented by :- 
1. Meena to Mithuna 
2. Kataka to Tula 
3. Vrischika to Kumbha 

These represent the 3 stagcs in a man's life. If the Ist 
portion contains more bindus than the remaining two, the person's 
first stage of life will be happy. If the middle portion contains 
more bindus than the remaining two portions, the middle stage of — 
life will be happy and if the last portion has the maximum, the last 
stage will be happy. 


Whichever portion has the least number of bindus, that 
stage of life will bring in sickness and sorrow. 
Notes . \n the Standard Horoscope :— 
Meena to Mithuna :- 32, 28, 28 and 33 = 121 (ist Khanda) 
Kataka to Tula :- 32, 38. 27 and 19 = 116 (2nd Khanda) 
Vrischika to Kumbha :- 33. 18. 23 and 26 = 100 (3rd Khanda). 
WTF ATR ATT :~ 
Bead WHR HT 3 ! 
ares eae Wah - arenateatts can a 1 
UT :~ 
arrre Pepstas wera grea aa. oR: 
wale aftreras cents TA yy 1 
“mult tafaced a geieicrsd aad | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 195 


areas sage Fae THT | 
ersag farierr eaTeTa Te | 
WSTTSS GS FHL SA | | 
arise gi aa ate seq 
Serre ACT TMT | | 
BITTE := 
asad yan cara fg Prete | 
saison Tad ARR 
RAAT 
aa western tar yA ax afdar 
aa dt FT OAT ART CaN | | 
fg wea Reseda re awd Shafeest at | 
Terragen fet gat Mee: TTT 1 
Sloka 34 — Omit thebindus in the 12th and 8th houses 


altogether. And total the number of bindus in the remaining 
bhavas (rasis) as before. 

If the: sums of bindus in the three units are equal to one another, 
the effect on the life of a person will be mixed. If the total of 
bindus in one unit is less than the other two, the person will have 
miseries during that period of life. 

{f the total of bindus in anv one unit is greater than the other 
two, the life of the person will be prosperous during that portion 
of life. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope. omitting the bindus in the 8th and 
12trh bhavas the totals are (1) Ist Khanda (32. 28. 33) = 93 : (2) 2nd 
Khanda (32. 38. 27. 19) = 116 : and (3) 3rd Khanda (33. 18. 26) = 77. The 
total 286 divided by 3 gives 95 avergage for each Khanda. 
ws waged FATAL ATT I 
fagecd aff wearearsar wearer 
fraese aate fageettata: wore: 1134 11 


196 wepat: 


Sloka 35 — When the benefic planets are posited in a unit, that 
portion of life will be happy. When there are both malefic and 
’ benefic planets in a unit, the effect on life during that unit's 
portion will be mixed depending upon the strength, etc., of such 
planets. The period of that unit which contains malefic planets 
only will be unhappy and full of troubles. 


When there are less bindus in a unit, there will be 
sickness, torment and the person will talk bad things. In the unit 
where there are many bindus, the person will enjoy abundant 
wealth during that period of life. 

areal Toad Tt Tara | 

ATA HAATATANS AT: PATH HATE | 
- Sloka 36 — Find the sum of bindus in :- 

1. Kendras (Ist, 4th, 7th and 10th bhavas) : 

2. Panapharas (2nd, 5th, 8th and Lith bhavas) ; 

3, Apoklimas (3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th bhavas). _ 
If the Kendras contain the maximum bindus, the first stage of 
life will be happy. If Panapharas have the maximum bindus, the 
_ middle stage and if Apoklimas have the maximum bindus, the 
final stage of life will be happv. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope (1) Ist Khanda (Kendra — 
33, 27, 18, 32) = 110 ; (2) 2nd Khanda (Panapharas — 32, 19. 
23, 28) = 102 ; and (3) 3rd Khanda (Apoklimas — 38, 33, 26, 28) 

= 125. 


STARSTATT :— 

FI TAMA USE TAY ACIAATATA | | 
PraleTy TTA IMA AT THAT | 
PITTA YATTTA TAHT CATE | | 


Devakeralam and other works:- 
The bhaves are divided into 3 sections. known as Khandas. (unit. 
etc.) of 4 bhavas each. According to some. they are from :- 
I. Mesha to Kataka . Simha to Vrischika and Dhanus to 
Meena : 


ASHTAKAVARGA 197 


3 3 y as » less bindus in the 
8th and 12th bhavas ; 

3. Meena to Mithuna, Kataka to Tula and Vrischika to 
Kumbha ; 


4. Lagna to the 4th bhava, 5th to the 8th bhava and 9th to 
the 12th bhava; 


5. 12th to the 3rd bhava, 4th to the 7th bhava and 8th to 
the llth bhava ; 


6. Kendra houses, Panaphara houses,and Apoklima houses. 


But the majority of the Acharyas follow the third method, 
i.e., Meena to Mithuna, etc. When the total of the bindus in the 
first Khanda is the maximum, there will be happiness in the first 
part of life. When the second Khanda has the maximum dindus, 
the middle part of life will be the happiest. When the third 
Khanda has the maximum, the last part of life is the happiest. 
Whichever Khanda contains the maximum bindus and is oceu- 
pied by benefic planets in that part, that portion of life will be the 
best and the happiest. If the bindus are middling and both 
malefies and benefies are in those bhavas. the effcrt is a mixed 
type. When the number of dbindus is the least in a Khanda and 
a greater number of malefies are there, that portion of life will be 
the most unhappy, causing much misery, etc. 


That Khanda which has the least number of bindus and 
has malefics in debilitation or in inimical houses, in that part of the 
life one may undergo roval displeasure such as conviction, 
imprisonment, loss of wealth. migration to a foreign place per- 
force. etc. That Khanda having more bindus with benefic planets 
occupying exaltation. own houses and friendly houses. in that 
portion of life, brings the native all kinds of comforts, happiness, 
etc. 


1, When the third Khanda is greater than the second 
Khanda and the second is greater than the first Khanda. it is 
ealled Kahala Yoga (@recrat"1). Happiness. prosperity. etc.. go on 
increasing as age advances. 


198 ; wena: 


2. When the second Khanda is greater than the third and 
first Khandas, it is called Maddhala Yoga (Aaear). One is fond 
of music, fun, entertainments and gets happiness and prosperity 
in the middle part of life. 

3. When all the 3 Khandas are more or fess equal to onc 
another, it is called Bheri Yoga (4%tam) or Sarvanga Yoga 

(aafram). One gets all comforts throughout life. 

4. When the second Khanda is less than the first and third 
Khandas, it is called Damara Yoga (Sata). One gets happi- 
ness and prosperity in the first and last portions of life. 

5. When the first Khanda is the greatest, second Khanda’ 
is the least and third Khanda is in between, it is called Veena 
Yoga.(amm am) 

6. When the first Khanda is the highest, and the third 
Khanda is the least, it is called Airavata Yoga (teraaain). 

7. When the first Khanda is the smallest and the second 
and third Khandas are equal to one another, it is called Vasi 
Yoga (afar. 

We FART AACHTA Y AMAA gS | 
Prot aarerahearreee ante Meter rahe MAT ATT: | 130 1 | 
Pee a fereraaret RE Tet faraaTTRAATE | 

Scary ara Tetra AL TATA | Ean 

Slokas 37, 38 — To find the good or bad effects of a 
particular bhava at particular period take the Shodhyapinda of the 
Samudayashtakavarga bindus. Multiply it by the corresponding 
figure for that particular bhava and divide the product by 27 to 
find the remainder. 

When Satum passes through the asterism indicated bv the 
remainder (counted form Aswini). there will be destruction of the 
effects of that bhava. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :- Ist bhava . - 
Shodhyapinda of Samudayashtakavarga 324 x 33 (bindus in the 
Ist house) = 10692 divided by 27 leaves remainder O Revati, 


ASHTAKAVARGA 199 


Aslesha and Jyeshta are the asterisms for Saturn's transit to 
cause the destruction of the effects of that bhava. 


10692 divided by 12 leaves balance 0. Meena, Kataka and 
Vrischika are the rasis for Saturn's transit to give the same . 
results. Similar is the case for the 6th bhava because the bindus 
contained in it are 33. 


Similar calculations should be made for the remaining 
bhavas to find the Nakshatras and the rasis for Saturn's transit. 
The Shodhvapinda of Samudayashtakavarga is 324 which is 
dividisble by 27 and 12. So the arrived at asterisms and rasis, are 
the same for all the bhavas in this particular example. 
Samudayashtakavarga — Trikona and Ekadhipatya Shodhana of 
bindus :- 


Planets 


Bhavas 
2| represented 
by rasis 


Bindus 


Mandala 
reduction 
(12)* 


8/0} 04,271 Trikona 
Shodhana 


0 | Ekadhipatya 
Shodhana 


= 174; veftvs = 150: mreaftes = 324; 
wet amaraet & frarongat arzar ates 
pease Bet Garey Teter, waft: AT) 138 tt 


* Refer Chap. xv Verse Nos. 24, 25 


200 sent: 


Sloka 39 — The same product when divided by 12 and the 
remainder counted from Mesha gives the rasi and its trines, 
which when transitted by Satrun spoils the effects of the bhava 
undcr consideration. Repeat the same process with the 
Shodhvapinda of rekhas (malefic points) and find out the aster- 
isms and the rasis as before. When Satum transits them good 
effects promised by that bhava are experienced. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :- Ist bhava : 
Shodhyvapinda of Samudavashtakavarga of rekhas 239 x 23 
(rekhas in the Ist house) = 5497 : divided by 27 leaves remainder 
16. Vishakha, Purvabhadrapada and Punarvasu are the asterisms 
for Satum's transit to give good results as promised by the 
bhava. 

3497 divided by 12 leaves remainder 1. Mesha, Simha and 
Dhanus are the rasis for Saturn's transit to give the same results. 
Similar is the case for the 6th bhava (23 rekhas). 

In the same manner calculations should be made for the 
remaining bhavas to find the Nakshatras and the rasis for 
Satum's transit for good effects. 

FTTH et TT Tega Ta | 
afar Rent atrearragerasrat eT | Yo 1 | 
Sloka 40 — Find the product of the number of bindus after 
the Trikonashodhana in the bhava occupied by the lord of the 8th 
bhava and the number of dbindus in the 8th bhava before the 
reductions and divide the product by 12. The remainder counted 
from Mesha bhava {rasi or its trines) and the solar month 
corresponding to that. causes afflictions to the native. 
Similarly. for parents and other relations. one should take the 
respecrtive bhava and their 8th houses. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :- For one’s own death <- 8 (the 
number of bindus in the bhava occupied by the lord of the 8th house. 
in the Samudayashtakavarga after Trikonashodhana) x 23 the number of 
bindus in the 8th house = 184 divided by 12 leaves balance 4. Kataka 
(Vrischika and Meena) are the rasis for the Sun's transit at the time of 
the death of the native. 
For the father :- The 9th house from the Lagna represents 
the father's house. The lord of the 8th house from the 9th house 


ASHTAKAVARGA 201 


will be the 4th bhava lord from the Lagna. The number of bindus 
remaining in the bhava (after Trikonashodhana) occupied by the 
lord of the 4th house multiplied by the number of bindus in the — 
4th house (before the reductions ) and the product divided by 12, 
will give the required month for the death of the father. 

Kumbha is the bhava representing the father's house. Its 8th 
house is Kanya which is occupied by its own lord. 

0 (the number of bindus remaining after Trikonashodhana) x 27. .. 
product 27dividedby 12 leaves3, i.e.. Mithuna (Tula and Kumbha). 
For the mother:- Kanya is the bhava representing the mother's house. 
Its 8th house is Mesha. Its lord Mars is in the Simha house. 

0 (the number of bindus remaining after Trikonashodhana) x 28. ..... 
product 28 divided by 12 leaves 4, i.e., Kataka (Vrischika and Meena). 


AAAS SF: Hea: | 
OT MPRA TST 


BMREAPST TART TY | 
Wey we eartarafererorrants ar Ye 11 


vata RrartenfeagegTey | 
PTT AaAS ATA | SF 1 

Slokas 41-43 — Find the sum of bindus from the house 
occupied by Saturn to the house occupied by the lord of the 8th 
house from Saturn (both inclusive). Multiply this total by the 
number of bindus in the 8th house from Saturn and divide the 
product by 12. The remainder counted fromMesha house shows 
the solar month of death of the native. It may happen even when 
the’ Sun transits its trines. In this manner. one can find out the 
probable solar months from the respective Karaka houses when 
the deaths of father. mother, etc.. may take place. 


The Lagna and its 8th house fro one's self and the house 
occupied by the Sun and its 8th house for the father, etc.. may 
be taken and the respective months calculated. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope to find the month of death of 
the native:- 


202 seca: 


Saturn is in Makara and the 8th house from that is Simha. 
Its lord the Sun is in Kanva (in bhava).. The sum of bindus will 
be 23. 26, 32, 28. 28. 33. 32, 38, 27 = 267 x 38 (bindus in the 
8th house from Saturn) : Product 10146. divided by 12 leaves 
remainder 6, i.e., Kanva or its trines. 


This multiplication can be simplified by casting out as 
many twelves as possible from each rasi figure and then sum- 
ming up. 

Same calculation:— 11. 2, 8, 4, 4, 9, 8, 2, 3 = 51 x 2 (38 - 36) 
= 102 divided by 12 leaves remainder 6. 


To find the month of death of the father :- 


The 9th house from the Lagna is Pitrusthana which is 
Kumbha. The 8th house from this is Kanva and its lord Mereurv 
is in Kanya. Counting (casting out 12s) Kumbha to Kanya (both 
inclusive) 2, 8, 4, 4. 9, 8. 2, 3 = 40. The bindus in the 8th house 
from Kumbhaare 3 (27-24). Therefore 40 x 3 = 120, divided by 
12 leaves remainder 0. When the Sun transits Meena or its trines’ 
thefather's death may happen. 


To find the month of death of the mother -— 


Kanvya the 4th house from the Lagna is the mothr's house. 
The lord of the 8th house from that, i.e.. Mars is in Simha rasi. 
Counting from Kanya to Simha 73 (casting out 12s) x 4 (28-24) 
= 292m, divided by 12 leaves balance 4. When the Sun transits 
Kataka or its trines, death of the mother may take place. 


Similar calculations for the months of death for other relations 
may be made from the positions of the respective Karakas. 


Rea T aes Mee AAT TY 
TY aeRt ares aerate ar aaa: aa IY 1 


Sloka 44 — The sum of the bindus from Satur to the house 
occupied by the lord of the 8th house should be found out. 
Multiply it by the number of dindus in the 8th house and divide 
the product by 12. The remainder shows the solar month counted 
from Mesha house (or its trines) for affliction to the native. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 203 


Notes : Similarly the solar month of death for the father can be 
calculated from the 9th house. 

In the Standard Horoscope Saturn occupies Makara. the 8th 
house from the Lagna ts Makara and its lord Saturn is posited 
there. Therefore the number of bindus are 4 (28-24) x 4(28-24). 
Their product 16 divided by 12 leaves remainder 4. Kataka. 
Vrischika and Meena are the months for the death of the native. 
Similarly, one can calculate for the father and the other relations. 


WHIMS FS AT TTT TAT | 
Tanta afe srony at Vonfedter Fagen ATT LSS 1 


ARS ART ST TEATS | 
RATATAT YTS Stet FAT | TSE 


Sloka 45, 46 — Multiply by 7, the total of bindus fromi the 
Lagna to the house occupied by Saturn (both inclusive) and divide 
the product by 27 and find the remainder. When the asterism 
indicated by the remainder (counted from Aswini) is transitted by 
any one of the malefics,the native suffers from diseases, 
miseries.etc. If at the same time other malefics transit the trine 
asterisms of the arrived one, the evil effects will be on a larger 
scale. 

Similar will be the effects in respect of transit of malefic 
planets through the asterism arrived from the sum of bindus 

’ from Saturn to the Lagna (both inclusive) : and in respect of 
Mars to the Lagna and the Lagna to Mars (both inclusive). 

In the case of a benefic planet. count the number of 
bindus from the house occupied by the planet to the Lagna and 
vice verse. Make similar calculations. When a benefic planet 
transits one of these two asterisms, good results mav be ex- 
pected. (If at the same time other benefics also transit the trine 
asterisms of the arrived ones. the good effects will be on a larger 
scale). 

Notes : Some are of the opinion that when the arrived at asterism 

is transitted by a malefic and if that malefic is posited in either 

the 5th or 9th house from the Lagna in the natal chart. the evil 
- effects will be on large scale. : 


204 separ: 


TSA ATH HEMT S| 

Tea RTE MTA aT SAT | Ye 11 

TRA aS BS AT TATA | 

Wa Heae ard MSTA HTT YS 

FANT AAMAS YT AAT | 

qaferrgerett rae AT ATT YS 1 
Slokas 47-49 — Find the sum of bindus in the 

_ Samudayashtakavarga from the Lagna to the house occupied by 

Saturn (both inclusive). Multiply this by 7 and divide the product 
by 27. At the age ‘represented by the quotient. a person suffers 
from disease or misery. Similarly. find out the quotient for the 
figures from Satum to the Lagna. Repeat the same process for 
Mars and Rahu. 

In the same manner find out the vears represented by the 
quotients for the benefic planets separately. In those years one 
may expect without doubt, issue, wealth, happiness, etc. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope : The Lagna to Saturn :- The 
sum of bindus (33. 32. 38. 27. 29. 33. 18. 23) =223 x 7 = 1561 : divided 
by 27. quotient is 57 and the remainder is 22. When any malefic planet 


passes through Sravana or during the 57th vear of life. the native may 
suffer evil results. 


Saturn to the Lagna :— The sum of bindus (23. 26, 32. 28. 28. 33) 
= 170 x 7 = 1190 ; divided by 27. quotient is 44 and remainder is 2. 
Bharani and 44th year of life. 


The Lagna to the Sun : 130 x 7 = 910 : divided by 27. quotient 33 
and remainder 19. Moola and 33rd vear of life. 


The Sun to the Lagna : 267 x 7 = 1869 . divided by 27. quotient 
69 and remainder 6. Andra and 69th vear of life. 


The Lagna to Mars : 103 x 7 = 721: divided by 27. quotient 26 and 
remainder 19. Moola and 26th vear of life. 


Mazrs to the Lagna : 305 x 7 = 2135: dividedby 27. quotient 79 and 
remainder 2, Bharani and 79th year of life. 


The Lagna to Rahu : 309 x 7 = 2136: divided by 27. quotient 80 
and remainder 3. Krittika and 80th year of life. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 205 


Rahu to the Lagna : 89 x 7 = 623; divide dby 27. quotient 23 and 
remainder 2. Bharani and 23rd year of life. 


The Lagna to the Moon : The sum of bindus (33. 32. 38, 27, 19) 
= 149 x7 = 1043: divided by 27, quotient is 38 and the remainder is 17. 
When any benefic planet passes through Anuradha or during the 38th 
year of life the native may get issue. wealth, happiness etc. 


The Moon to the Lagna : 240 x 7 = 1680; divided by 27, quotient 
62 and remainder 6. Ardra and 62nd year of life. 


For Jupiter and Venus the same years andasterism as for the 
Moon. 


The Lagna to Mercury : Same as for the Sun, i.e., Moola and 33rd 
vear of life. 


Mercury to the Lagna : Same as for the Sun, i.e., Ardra and 69th 
year of life. ; 


When there are indications of good and bad results in the same 
year or during the transit over the same asterism by benefics and 
malefics. the effects will be of mixed nature, the net result being that of 
the most powerful planet. 


Jataka-parijata says that after the multiplications and divisions. 
remainder should be taken into consideration. When a particular planet 
passes through that asterism. good or bad results accrue. while 
Phaladeepika takes the quotient for the same product and says that 
similar results will follow in the running year of life of the native as 
represented by the quotient. 


tare orig ge 
wang Fear aH wReAT I 140 U1 
Fat Trg SANS AT | 

aay SAY Teas ATT 1 142 1 


206 sre@at: 


Slokas 50, 51 — Total up the dindus from the house occupied 
by Mars to the Lagna (both inclusive). Calculate as before and 
findout the year (represented by the quotient). In that year, there , 
will be apprehensions of diseases or death, if Mars is associated 
with a malefic planet in the natal chart. One should avoid that 
bhava (for all auspicious ceremonies) during the closing months 
_of that vear. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mars to the Lagna — 305 x 
7 = 2135; divided by 27, gives 79th year of life. At that age the 
native will suffer from diseases. 


AITMEHAT THT HSI ALLA: | 
HIPAA FATTY, FATT LKR 
Sloka 52 — In the Samudavashatakavarga table note the 


number of bindus in the Lagna and the 8th bhava. Similarly, in 
the Chandra lagna (the bhava occupied by the Moon) and its 8th 
bhava. If the number of bindus in the respective Lagna is 
greater than the bindus in the corresponding 8th bhava, the 
person will be long-lived. If the number of bindus in both the 
bhavas are equal, a middle life. If the Lagna bhava has less 
bindus than its corresponding 8th bhava, the person is short- 
lived. 

CATSSH Tat ATASAAT FATT | 

AT ape at Ut esrewaty | 143 I 


Sloka 53 — The death of the native may take place when the 
_ rising sign is :- (a) the 8th rasi from the Lagna, or (b) the 8th rasi 
counted from the Moon. or (c) the rasi (bhava) containing the 
least number of bindus in the Samudavashtakavarga. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the 8th rasi from, (a) the 
Lagna is Makara: (b) the Moon is Vrishabha: and (c) rasi 
containing the least number of hindus is Dhanus. 


waver Vaat Barfeekey aa: * | 
we BAe Faq Torarasheaa 114% 11 


ASHTAKAVARGA 207 
waver Laat W_Get waaay * | | 
wear Frater: wafakrget wes: 144 11 
AIGeT YHA AT: ASN Aa:* | 
were 7 TART are BAT LINE LI 
gattsrypaey waa Vara * | 
at AAG J AAT Fae! TT IK UI 
vata ge ga waa * | 
TUATHA ST AHA STS PINS 1 
wafreraa wren erretatetared * | 
HHS: TSagfaar FIT LIKs 1 
aera zee ett: earerafaera* | 
weeme WY were: aaa frwaters | lho 11 
fies FMT ATSaAT * | 
Pratt TT YHA FATTT | E21 
vated zat at a faerva:* | 
sagee: wraterfeatrererrtsrt: BA: 1 1G? 
ageiraieedt Varhireraferar* | 
waantatates : wreratararrst: TET le 2 11 
TIT aacHe eats AAR: I 
feast wet Prat waa Pa BAT FATT 1k 1 
STE Hara war fans a 
Wreet Hereal Vi: rae TRTATACTT 1 1E4 VA 
SAP HTATEaTETA | . 
yatta ant wreath: yar afer lee) 
wata fapiras eg: Get 7 WTI 
Wa merase S A SM BTA IE II 


208 seme: 


Slokas 54-67 — On any desired day find the positions of 
the planets in the Zodiac. From the Bhinnashtakavargas of the 
natal cahrt find the number of bindus in each bhava occupied by 
the 7 planets on the day in question or on the day of Nirayana 
solar ingress and find the total of the bindus associated with all 
the 7 planets. The day-to-day or the monthly effects will be as 
follows according to the number of bindus obtained:- (14) 
detriment to Dharma (duty), wealth and happiness (fra*ferf’); 
(15) great misfortune ; (16) royal (Government) displeasure ; 
(17) loss (destruction of everything) ; (18) loss of wealth ; (19) 
distress due to perverted ideas and through relations ; 
(20) expense and quarrel ; (21) great mental anguish ; 
(22) humilitation, failure in undertakings and pitiable condition 
(@=4); (23) detriment to Dharma (duty) and wealth; 
(24) unexpected loss of money ; (25) loss of ready cash 
(rollingstock); (26) quarrel; (27) balanced state in all matters; (28) 
inflow of wealth; (29) respect from public; (30) royal recognition, 
virtuous deed and happiness; (31) wealth; (32) special gifts and 
honours; (33) attainment of everything and great profits, (34 to 
56) attainment of all kinds of prospertiy, wealth, etc., the 
magnitude increasing, proportionately according to the number of 
bindus. 


Thus, the day-to-day prosperity or otherwise has been 
mentioned by the sages. This important Ashtakavarga method 
has been taught by God Shiva in the Brahmayamala to under- 
stand the effects of the Dasas and the day-to-day results. 


Whatever effects are given in the forgoing verses accord- 
ing to the Ashtakavarga bindus, they will be two-fold when the 
planets are in their exaltation, own house or Upachavya houses 
and proportionately reduced if they are otherwise. 

In this manner the effects of all the 12 bhavas should be 
judged. 

Notes : Parasara gives the monthly or day-to-day effects begin- 
ning from the toal of 7 bindus up to 40 bindus in detail and from 
40 upto 56 collectively. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 209 


He has prescribed some propitiatory rites to be performed 
to ward off the evil effects. 

Some of the commentators such as those of Manasagari, 
Parasara, Jataka-Chandrika, etc., have applied the above results 
as the yearly effects, considering the Lagna as the first year; 2nd 
house, the secondyear; 3rd house, thethird year; and so on. Again 
the cycles of 12 years are to be taken, i.e., the Lagna will 
represent 13th, 25th, 37th, 49th, 61st, etc., years of life. 


GRRI :- 

Garey permeHaty aKa * | 
RTS YA Abe Teter AI | 
Tah: ay A Heys wad * | 
qari feafare cere at frat || 
Se, U we Aya Ae * | 
Wane TaeHyLa Tor | 
Para: wirrad ao gay * | 
aeaqwaghy: agai Yea cereasarera | | 
Pare: MarR Ara: * | 
SIGMA Hay THAT | | 
we: Wenhreng @ wera zea: | 
feared: varfafeat weercufer fast: || 
afer aa Af seq * | 
aR Sarg aE Wea AIT | | 
aAeuUdataransa FyAT TATA * | 
fasmfevormica ary Hareeareae | |: 
okreatftd were: area wfera:* | 
arena cetera fafa ary | | 
tat ae fafaticeasa geht wera | 
Rey: pera: wea a area || 
aac attrra yer Areata | 
Haase gaa MYPErraHy | | 


210 


wepat: 


aeMisHwaa: wareaia Halfearra:* | 
fazien gfearer: Sacpateceatd GT | | 
yrod wrist carer wda* | 
umnatrayiter cerereera ge: | | 
WATAgA A ATae MHI | 
drat weal cere: WeaTe: HAT | | 
aaah yer Cale szI* | 
MIRE werhastwerate PRAT | | 
mages: gu areal ae* | 
ara: tase: srg Ta Aa || 
aqua yd aR a art area: | 
quersra fata peter: erie: | 
warts aft farenraiad waq* | 


qaregant aa cee ae: || 
Riera saarakakte areata: | 


yafefrgream: qeetaataa: | | 
ASPARTATE FIAT: | | 
REATAAATY AGRA TAX | 
TeRTane arse laegaraaray | | 
wafer aS | 
FER GaN Frere | | 
eraraiftaizag weaterta gza* | 
aa wed uensatfta: qvastreadiad | | 


waned :- 


sa a care o ay ary itera | 
THERGRTG US TA YAYAA | | 
Ae: Meas Paar te TTE* 


aereh: Qgfercd FTTST a Tra || 


fisien memes: warefeg:fara | 
AaAaa ¢ wer Saas || 
amfetermiean: tedaefataa* | 
TaAaeeaTa ot Areata aera | | 


ASHTAKAVARGA Qn 


VOU TAMAS GAA AAAS: * | 

— watauga! aad 41 
Tareteiata: eee Yo a ferefa* | 
Bern aaatara Ged warren | | 
wrparny :- 


ARR WAS Vey AaAaASOIAA | 
pis worse 3 fara hagas | | 
wre feyorg ei arrasicatte fer | 
Pertereyadaitdagys: Tearpereden Care | 
oferg ssaehearh: are carfkertoraret ys | 
Tea Rearsequ ae Bera: waa AMA || 
za Gafahierni@iteniehkg ge RT | 
Fara WIehHgEM J TAIT | 
APMEPR :- 
AR ACeay: Wa: WAIT | 
arererstte vata ere Aereate: | | 
Weg VATS AAT: MH: | 
arate gat Fafa adenrafaerca | | 
armel Rafael gi ares | 
gatgtteares a wrt Brea | | 
qa PetePetata arn fear | 
CRATE Masa AST: | | 
wefan sar varge vate | 
variaaretay ax: yore | 
aM qaceitakseca aRa SeEarH | 
yas tee qorterfaerehs: eae | | 
wmeepasha: Sa waa wad | | 
Devakeralam and other works:- 
I. If there are more than 30 bindus in the Lagna. 9th. [0th 
and Iith houses. the person is born a king and remains so 


till his death or he will have all the powers and comforts 
equal to a king. 


212 sepa: 


2. One will be poor, irate or sickly according as the number of 
bindus is less than 25 in the Lagna, 9th, 10th and Ith 
houses. Mixed results if the number of bindus are more 
than 30 in some and less than 25in other bhavas. 


3. | When the number of the dindus in the Lagna, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses is between 19 to 22 and malefics are in Trikona 
houses, the person will be very poor and a beggar. 


4. When the Lagna has less than 30 bindus and the 3rd house 
has more than 30 dbindus, the person will wield royal 
authority in Parliament. 


5. When the Lagna, Chandralagna, ]0th and 11th houses have 
more than 30 bindus each and the Lagna is aspected by” 
Jupiter, the person becomes a king or a minister. 


6. If there are more than 30 bindus in the 2nd, 9th, 10th and 
11th houses, he becomes a ruler of many states. 


7. If the Lagna has more than 30 bindus and there are planets 
in the 9th and 10th houses, he will lead a comfortable and 
happy life. In the above case, he will be the chief in his 
family if the Lagna contains the maximum bindus. 


8. When there are more than 30 dindus in the 4th house and 
benefics occupy and aspect that house,the person will have 
conveyances carried by men. (Palanquin, etc.) 


9. When Satum associated with 30 bindus aspects the 4th 
house and the lord of that house is in a Kendra from the 
Lagna, the person will have horses for his conveyances. 


10: When the Moon is in the 3rd bhava aspected by the Sun, 
and Mars aspects the 8th bhava, the person will be afflicted 
by bodily sores. If there are malefics in the 3rd house with 
middling bindus (between 25 to 30), the person suffers 
from disorder of watery humours or suffers fatigue from 
travel, etc. 


1]. When the Moon is combust (New Moon) and the lord of 
the Chandralagna is associated with few bindus (i.e.. less 


ASHTAKAVARGA 213 


12. 


14. 


16. 


than 25), and has an aspect too from Satum, the person is 
possessed of and afflicted by evil spirits. 


The Samudayashtakavarga bindu strength of a bhava will 
be in effective if the benefic planets are in debilitation or’ 
combust or malefics are in benefic Vargas. 


A Vargottama planet in any bhava with 30 or more bindus 
advances the happiness of that Bhava to the greatest 
extent, 


When the lord of the Lagna is in the 4th house with more 
than 30 bindus, the person will be a feudatory king, 
prosperous and happy. 


The cardinal direction represented by the bhava occupied 
by the lord of the Lagna will be the place of living and 
earning, of the person. Luck may come from the direction 
of the lord of the 8th house also. 


In the Samudayashtakavarga note the bindus in all the 
bhavas. If one bhava has the minimum bindus (e.g.,18) and 
in the next house there are maximum bindus (e.g., 36), the 
person experiences sudden rises in life. Conversely, if one 
bhava has the maximum bindus (e.g., 36) and in the next 
house there. are minimum dindus (e.g., 18), the person born 
experiences sudden falls in life. When the difference be- 
tween the maximum and the minimum bindus is verv little, 
the life of the person is very steady and progressive as age 
advances. The reverse are the results if the disparity 
between the maximum and the minimum bindus is very 
high. 

Find the number of bindus in the house occupied by the 
Moon. The mother may suffer sickness or die after that age 
(represented by the bindus) of the native. 


When Saturn passes through the 12th, Ist and 2nd houses 
from the Moon, he gives bad results to the native. If the 
said houses contain more than 30 bindus each, the person 
suffers less troubles, miscries.etc.. and he obtains good 


214 


| aepayt: 


results on a very large scale depending upon the number of 
bindus in the said houses. If those 3 houses contain less 
than 25 bindus each, the person suffers miseries, etc., on 
a very large scale. If they contain mixed number of 
bindus, there are mixed results. When one of them con- 
tains very few bindus as compared to the remaining two, 
the person suffers heavily during the transit of Satum 
through that house. If one of the 3 said houses contains 
more bindus than the other two. the transit of Saturn 
through that house will give good results. In the same wav 
Satum's transits through the 4th and 8th houses from the 
Moon may be judged. (The transit of Satum through the 
12th, Ist and 2nd houses from the Moon is known as 
Sadesati (aTsurfa). Panoti (GAIff), ie., 7 1/2 vears of 


Saturn). 


CHAPTER XV 


AYUS AND DASAS 

FIAT: WAAC HASAN | 

ferea feat Warat ardaraey | 12 

feats fivart eau feardea* | 

Far Vary AAAS STAT LR 

feat Tartarg Stay WyaAT* | 

Wea AAA TTASSTY TAT: 1131 

Wa FATA: MA ATA |, 

Ted AM. VASAT FT | TY 1 
Slokas \-4 -- Parasara said, “Now I shall tell vou the system of 
finding Ashtakavarga Avyus. In a planet' Ashtakavarga - 


years Months Days 


A house having no bindu, gives 0 0 2 
1 0 0 1-1/2 
2 bindus 2 0 0 
3 s 0 0 V2 
4 0 0 7-1/2 
5 2 0 0 
6 4 0 0 
7 6° 0 0 
8 “; - 8 0 0 


Examine the dindus in all the 12 bhavas separately. The 
Avus obtained from the Ashtakavarga of each planet is summed 
up and reduced to one half. This is the net Avus contributed by 
that planet. Similarly, Avus contributed by the 7 planets and the 
Lagna is separately worked out and totalled up. The grand total 
will be the Ayus for the native. 


216 arena: 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :- The Ayus obtained from 
the Sun's Ashtakavarga :- 


Bhavas Bindus Years Months Days 
Lagna 4 0 0 71/2 
2nd 4 0 0 71/2 
3rd 6 4 0 0 
tth 5 2 0 0 
5th 2 0 0 l 
6th 4 0 0 7.1/2 
7th 2 0 0 1 
8th 2 0 0 1 
Sth 4 0 0 7A/2 
10th 6 4 0 0 
hith 5 2 “0 0, 
12th 4 0 0 7-1/2 
12 { 10-1/2 


The Ayus derived from the Sun's Ashtakavarga is (12 years. 1 
month 10.1/2 days divided by 2) = 6 years, 0 months. 20.1/4 days. 

The Ayus obtained from the Ashtakavarga of all the planets and 
the Lagna reduced to one half :- 


Planets Years Months Days 
The Sun 6 0 20.1/4 
The Moon 7 0 123/44 
Mars 4 0 10.3/4 
Mercury 12 0 9 
Jupiter 10 0 15.1/2 
Venus 10 0 5.1/4 
Saturn : 4 0 TAA 
Lagna 5 0 23.1/2 
38 3 4 


Total Ayus contributed by all the planets and the Lagna is 58 
years,3 months and + days. The Ayus obtained by this method and also 
by those under verses7.9 and 13. have to be increased or decreased by 
multiples of 27 years so as to agree with those calculated by other 
systems (Dasa, Yoga, etc.). 


Varat acre Fa. aTdacaest ay * | 
West weg: waferareiatesy 114 1 
Ud Genny: Fareedargeera 11211 


ASHTAKAVARGA. 217 


Slokas 5. 6 - Find the excess of bindus over ‘rekhas or vice 
versa. 


lf one bindu is in excess the Ayus, is af year: 


two bindu is in excess the > ~-is 2. vears : 
If one rekha is in excess the *? ~* is 1/4-day ; 
two rekhas are in excess the ~*~“. is 1/2 day ; 


When bindus.and rekhas are equal 7-1/2 days. . 


In this way Ayus is calculated for the figures in‘ each bhava 
in the respective Ashtakavargas of all the planets and thé Lagna. 
Reduce the Ayus so arrived by one-half. This will represent the 
total Ayus of longevity taken together. 

Notes : This system is the same as that mentioned in the previous 
verses. 


arenfeyort grat fos Tear er: | 

TEAR AasaarNsrrsy | ot 

MMA J TS MTNA ANA: | 

ay: Res g Beg Wrage J Be 1 IC HI 

Slokas 7, 8 - After obtaining the Shodhyapindas of the 7 planets, 
multiply each one by the number of bindus (before the reduc- 
tions) in the 8th house from the Lagna in their respective 
Ashtakavargas. Divide these products individually by 27. The 
quotients represent Asus in vears (months etc.). Their sum 


{reduced by 100 if the total exceeds it) is known as the 
Avuspinda. 


Notes : in the Standard Horoscope :— 


The Sun : 204 (Shodhayapinda of the Sun) x 2 (number of bindus in the © 
8th house from the Lagna before ihe reductions in the 


Sun's Ashtakavargas) = 408/27 = 15-1/9 years 
The Moon: 94x 4= 376/27 = 13-25/27 years 
Mers: 153 x 3 = 459/27 7 17 vears 

Mercury; 170 x 6 = 1020/27 = 37-7/9 years 
Jupiter, 96 x 2 = 192/27 = 7-1/9 years 


218 wena: 


Venus; 148 x 5 = 740/27 = 27-11/27 years. 

Saturn; 153 x 1 = 153/27 = 5-2/3 years. . 

Total years 124 less 100 years = 24 Nakshatra years 

To convert them into solar years 24 x 324/365 = 7776/365 
= 21 yrs. - 3 mths. - 19 days - 39 Ghs. 


Tahtreeqraerncnts gear PretareraATa SAH: FE 
ASTRA ATA AAS UAT TAATAAISNAAT: 119 11 
Ses Trerer faye cate Att rere! AST | 
HASTA ATMA aa feria ArT | Wo 1 | 


Slokas 9, 10 — Add together the Rasipinda and Grahapinda 
figures to get the Shodhyapinda for all the 7 planets separately. 
Divide these figures by 30 to get years (months, etc.). If the 
years are in excess of 12, deduct as many cycles of 12 years 
as possible (keeping 12 and figures less than 12 as they arc). The 
sum of all these figures, gives the period of life given by the 
various planets subject to modifications. 


(1) Double the Ayus for the planet in exaltation; 
(2) Reduce to one half the Ayus for the planet in debili- 
tation or combust: 
(3) In respect of a planet in an intermediate position 
- (between his exaltation and debilitation) calculate the 
proportional period: 
(4) When Mars is retrograde, double theAvus obtained. 


semreTraTTaTge waatraterer Praca: | ei 


Sloka 11 — In respect of plancts in Moolatrikona, own house. 
a friendly house or in benefic Vargas such as exaltation, conjuction 
with benefic planets or in aspect from benefics, the Avus figure 
‘has to be modified as before. When they’ are in the Vargas of 
malefic or inimical planets, the Avus undergoes corresponding 
reductions. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 219 


RyeeTeM: TA: we WATT | 
afarraarer Srargfeqererqye Gey: 1183 11 


Sloka \2 — The maximum period of life for human beings is 
obtained by adding together the years given (after the necessary 
modifications) by the Sun and other planets. Some great teachers 
(like Parasara) are of the opinion that this has to be increased by 
the Ayus contributed by the Lagna (deducted from the 
Lagnashtakavarga) in order to get the full life period. 


Notes : 


(a) 


(b) 


(c) 


(d) 


In the Standard Horoscope :— 

The Sun's Shodhvapinda is 204 ; divided by 30 gives 6.8. 
The Sun's position is 45-29°-40' and he is therefore 405- 
20' from his depression point. Hence the Ayus given by 
the Sun is :-— 


= 3.4 + 10.2 x 40°-20/180° 

= 3.4 + 2.2855 = 5.6855 yrs. 

= 5 yrs. 8 mths. 6 days. 47 Ghs. 

The Moon's Shodhvapinda is 94 ; divided by 30 gives 
3.13 yrs. The Moon's position is 6°-13°-34' and he is 
therefore 195-26' from her depression point. Hence the 
Ayus given by the Moon is :— 


= . 1,56 + 4.69 x 19°%-26' 
180° 


1.56 + 0.5074 = 2.074 yrs. = 0 mths. 26 dvs. 38 Ghs 


The Shodhvapinda of Mars is 153 : divided by 30 gives 
3.¥ xrs. The poisiton of Mars is 48-7°-I' and he is 
therefore 9°-1' from his depression point. Hence theAvus 
given by Mars is :- 


=253+ 7.65 x 


= 2.55 + 0.3832 = 2.9332 vrs. = 2 vrs. 11 mths.5 davs. 
57 Ghs. ; 


The Shodhvapinda of Mercury is 170 : divided by 30 


220 


(e) 


(f) 


* (g) 


(h) 


separ: 


gives 5.66 yrs. The position of Mercury is 55-5°-36' and 
therefore he is 170°-36' from his depression point. Hence 
the Ayus given by Mercury is :- 

= 2.83 yrs. + 8.49 x 170-36! 

: 180° 

= 2.83 + 8.056] = 10.8894 yrs. Mercury is combust,. 
Therefore this Avus has to be reduced by 1/2. Therefore 
the Ayus given is:- 

10.8894 2 = 5.447 yrs.= 5 vrs. 5 mths. 10 days 6 Ghs. 
The Shodhyapinda of Jupiter is 96 ; divided by 30 gives 
3.2 yrs. The poisiton of is 55-15°-35' and therefore he is 
109°-25' from his depression point. Hence the Avus 
given by Mars is :- 


= 1.6+48 x 10% - 25 


180° 

= 1.6 + 2.9177 = 4.5177 yrs. = 4 yrs. 6 mths 6 davs. 
24 Ghs. : 
The Shodhyapinda of Venus is 148 ; divided by 30 gives 
4.93 yrs. The poisiton of Venus is 65-15°-37' and she is 
therefore 18°-37' from her depression point. Hence 
theAyus given by Venus is :- 
= 2.466 + 7.399 x 18-37) 

180° 
= 2.466 + 0.76535 = 3.2320 vrs. = 3 vrs. 2 mths | 

23 days. 31 Ghs. 
The Shodhyapinda of Saturn is 153 : divided by 30 gives 
3.1 yrs. The poisiton of Satum is 98-16"=11' and he is 
therefore 93°-49' from his depression point. Hence the 
Ayus given by Satum is :- 
SPs 16ss 
_ 180" 
= 2.55 + 3.9872 = 6.5373 yrs. = 6 yrs. 6 mths [3 davs. 
24 Ghs. 

The Shodhyapinda of Satum is 91 : divided by 30 gives 
3.03 = 3 yrs. 0 mths. 12 davs. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 221 


Therefore the total of the Ayus given by the 7 planets’ 


and the Lagna :- 

_Yrs. mths days. Ghs 
The Sun 5 8 6 47 
The Moon 2 0 6 38 
Mars 2 11 5 57 
Mercury 5 5 10 6 
Jupiter 4 6 6 24 
Venus 3 2 23 31 
Satum 6 6 13 24 
The Lagna 3 0 12 0 
Total:- 33 5 4 47 

Tanfeae arate: STMT SAT: | 


Sarecatinwargeeer wah WT we | 123 1 


Sloka 13 — From the Bhinnashtakavargas of 7 planets, find out 
the numbers of bindus in the houses occupied by the planets 
(from the Sun to Satur before the reductions). The sum of these 
numbers with necessary modifications as done in the previous’ 
four verses, will represent the life period of a native. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope : 


The Sun is associated with 5 bindus in his Ashtakavarga 
in the 4th bhava. The Avus contributed is — 


225475 x 22nd = 25 + 1.6806 = 4.1806 years. 
180° 

Planets Years 

The Sun 4.1806 

The Moon 1.9858 

Mars 3.4508 

Mercury 4.8042 (The proportionate ape for 
Uccha position is halved for 
being combust). 

Jupiter 5.6472 

Venus 3.2757 

Satum 1.2818 


24.6261 = vears 
= 24 vears — 7 months — 15 days — 24 Ghatikas. 


222 wepat: 


aremfequictst areaediear: STAT: 1124 11 
wafers weet ubtathtay | 

aged fai: ster wre weeds 1126 11 
gases warsr Asse: 119 UI 


Slokas 14-17 — Multiply the Shodhyapinda by 7 and divide the 
product by 27. The quotient represents the period contributed in 
vears (months, davs, etc.). 

The poeriod of 27 vears is known as one cycle (ATSa). If 
the quotient so arrived at is less than 27, keep the figure as it is; 
if above 27 and below 54, subtract it from 54 and take the 
remainder (as Avus from that planet): if the figure is above 54 
and below 81, subtract 54 from the same: and if above 81 and 
below 108; subtract the figure from 108 and take the remainder 
‘as Ayus. 

; = : ; q ; + 
AOTATISAT SOT TY BAT | 12 1 
Gar FAM FaNTSTT TAT | 
TOA J SAAT ST: TUTPIATT 1188 1 
TEAST WIT PRAATT | 120 1 | 


Slokas 18-20 — The Avus obtained is subject to the following 
reductions. ; 


If two or more planets are together in a bhava. the Avus 
obtained is reduced to one-half for each of them. If anv planet 
is in debilitation, or is combust. the vears should be halved. If any 
planet is in an inimical house. reduce the Avus by one-third. 


If any malefic planet is in the visible half of the Zodiac 
(i.e.. in the 12th. 11th. 10th, 9th. 8th or 7th house) the reduction 
is as follows :-— 


ASHTAKAVARGA 223 


(1) for the 12th house. remove all - 

(2) for the Ith house, deduct one-half : 

(3) for the 10th house. deduct one-third : 

(4) for the 9th house, deduct one-fourth ; 

(5) for the 8th house, deduct one-fifth oo 

(6) for the 7th house, deduct one-sixth : 

In the case of bencfic planets in the visible half the 
reductions are half of those given for malefics. 

If a planet is defeated in war, reduce his Ayus by one- 
third. Also. when either the Sun or the Moon is in conjunction 
(within prescribed degrees) with Rahu or Ketu reduce the Avus 
by one-third. 

When there are two or more reductions applicable to a 
planet, carry out only that which is the highest (in magnitude). 


Notes : Planet in the invisible half the Zodiac. i..e.. between the cusps 
of the Lagna and the 7th house. undergo no reductions as given in 
verse 19. The Lagna Ayus is not subject to any reduction. The years. 
etc.. so obtained are the Nakshatra vears (a vear consisting of 324 days. 
i.e.. twelve cycles of the Moon). 


TRIAHA PET a PITA | 

Aare Tara rah A AAT 11 

Waafeaaared Ha TA SMT AIT | 

TH WeIM Aaa SAT FATATTFG 11221 

Urges aaihtr wey TI 

OATS CTATRTAPSP STAT R31 
Sloka 21-23 — After all the above reductions (verses 16 to 20) 
multiply each planet's Avus by 324 (aT) and divide the prodct 
by 365 (Ata) which gives the true duration in solar vears 


(months. days. etc.}. These are the vears of the Dasa Bede of ; 
the planets and the Lagna. 


In the case of the Lagna Avus, the solar years arrived at 
-have to be increased by as many vears as the Lagna has 


224 went: if 


completed, rasis, from Mesha. The completed portion of the 
Lagna rasi, converted into months, days, etc., at the rate of one 
year equal to 30° is added to it. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope: 
1. The Sun's Shodhyapinda is 204 and the product when 
multiplied by 7 is 1428. 
The Ayus given by the Sun = 1428 + 27 = 52 yrs. 10 mths. 
20 days. 
2 The Moon's Shodhyapinda 94 multiplied by 7 gives 658. 
The Ayus given by the Moon = 658 + 27 = 24 yrs. 4 mths. 
13 dys.1 20 ghs. , 
Similarly the Ayus given by the remaining planets and the Lagna 
are calculated. The Mandala reductions are then carried out. 


M 

The Sun 2 0 

TheMoon - 4 4 less than 27 no 
change 


Mars 39 


8 0 Of 14 4 © O- Subtract from 54: 
Mercuy 4 0 6 4 9 1 3 4 OF rt age 
Jupiter 4 10 20 Of 24 #+%IW W® 0 _ iess than 27 no 
. change 
Venus 38 064«2~B Subtracted from 54. 
Saturn 39 8 «+O 0 Bee ee 
The Lagna 23 7 3 2 less than 27 no 


change 


They are next subject to further reductrions due to planetary 
conjunctions and positions of the plancts in the visible half of the 
Zodiac. ? 

1. The Sun and Mercury are together in the 4th bhava. Mercury 
oe also. Therefore each of them undergoes reduction by onc- 

2. Jupiter, Venus and the Moon arc together in the 5th bhava. 
Also. theMoon is in conjunction with Ketu. Therefore each of these 
planets undergoes reduction by one-half. 

3. Mars is in the 3rd bhava with no other planet in it and he is 


ASHTAKAVARGA 225 


in the visible half of the Zodiac. Therefore no reduction in his Ayus. 

4, Saturn is in the 8th bhava with no planet in conjunction. But 
the Lagna minus Saturn is 25-4°-37' minus 95-16°-11'= 
48-18-26", This being less than 6 signs, there should be Chakrardhahani. 


The divisor is 45 - 18° -26' + 1800' = 4.614 


The rectified Ayus given by Saturn is 14 yrs. 4 mths. minus 
1/4.614 x 14 yrs. 4 mths. = 11 yrs. 2 mths. 21 dys. 40 Ghs. 


5. The Lagna Ayus is not subject to any further reduction. 


Nakshatra Ayus after 
Planets reduction for conjunc- 

tion, ete. 
“Yrs. Mths. Dys.  Ghs. 


Suddha Ayus in solar 
years 


Yrs. Mths. Dys. Ghs. 


The Sun 
The Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 

Venus 

Satu 

The Lagna 
Additive (See 
Sloka No. 23) 
Total 87 1 ll 40 799 


BEROCECKS 


24 15 


a 


The rectified Ayus arrived is the Nakshatra Ayus. This 
has to be converted into solar years (i.e., year of 365 days) by 
multiplying the figure by 324 and dividing by 365. 

The Sun's Nakshatra Ayus is 6 months 20 davs = 200 days 


200 x 324 


The equivalent Ayus in solar days = a a 177 days 32 Ghs. 


= 5 months 27 days 32 Ghatis. 
The Moon's Ayus kin equivalent solar years 


= 12-26-40 x 224 
Sie x65 


Similarly. the equivalent Ayus in solar years -of the 
remaining planets and the Lagna are given in the table above. The 


= 10yrs. 9 mths. 23 dys. 55 Ghs. 


226 wena: 


Lagna Ayus is increased by a period as given in verse No.23. 
HEMT AGA TET TAIT | 
CaS Me SHATSATT | RY 11 
ee 
WaT SET VATA TAT RY 1 
patter aero aa | 
RT F ToT aA: 1 RE 
Aatfaatahrscang: Fes yee | 
BRM ATS ATAU HT: FAT: 11 1 
Wage J Aes HVseT META: | 
WAH Y WerareratgaraTay | 1S 11 


Slokas 24-28 — Having prepared the Samudayashtakavarga, subtract 
cycles of 12 from each bhava, retaining 12 or figures less than 12 ; 
thereafter carry’ out the Trikona and Ekadhipatya reductions. ; 
Muhtiply the remainingfigures by the rspective rasi and Graha multipliers and 
find the Shodhyapinda. Multiply this figure by 7 and divide the product by 
27, which gives the duration of life in Nakshatra years (months. etc.). This 
figure is subject to reduction by 100, if it is greater than that. since, the 
maximum duration of life according to this method is onl 100 years, 
Convert this Ayus into solar vears. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the Shodhyapinda of the 
Samudayashtakavarga is 324. The product when multiplied by 7 is 2268. 
“. The Ayus obtained from Samudayashtakavarga is 2268 + 27 = 84 
‘Nakshatra years. 

This has to be converted into solar years 


, 84 = 74 years 6 months 23 days 11 Ghatis. 
arerpantarea :- 
Vertracd aearrnd: Geer aeaes asa: | 
TIPRN F RANT ATS Paha wa || 
eed UTTAR TTS: eapreaaeag 
Bet WeSy MEd Tees LIT | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 227 


aratre’y feared: aRHyRrs: 

weal aM feaaPratatge: Yeary; 1 
SMAAAGAATT AUST AAS eTAT: | 
Geared ada: AguireaHe reser | 128 


Sloka 29 — The above Samudayashtakavaerga years will have 
to be reduced or increased by cycles of 27 years (4°Sc1) 
according as the Lagna is aspected by malefic or benefic planets, 
and also, according as the longevity of the person is found to be 
short. middle or long by the Yoga Ayus or other methods. 


wernt g farmmenya: wads! 
Rapes qaaeT AT: 1130 1 
ne bl Se WaT! 

ay eae 
HEMT: wearer: 1122 11 


Slokas 30-32 — To find the proportional part of the 8 Dasas, in the 
Samudaya Ayus, the individual Bhinnayus is multiplied by the Samudayva 
Ayus and the product is divided by the sum of the 8 Bhinnayus, when 
the respective Dasa period is obtained. Thus the Dasa periods of each 
planet and the Lagna are found. This is known as the allocation of the 
Dasas in the Samudayashtakavarga Avus. The Ashtakavarga method 
of finding the longevity and the Dasa periods is said to be the best of 
all methods. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope: The Bhinnashtakavarga 
Ayus total is 79 yrs. 5 mths. 24 dys. 15 Ghs. and the Ayus 
according to Samudayashtakavarga is 74 yrs. 6 mths. 23 dys. 11 
Ghs. When (according to verse Nos.35, 36 supra) the Ayus has 
to be reckoned on the Samudavashtakavarga basis, the 
proportionate parts of the Dasa periods of the planets and the 
Lagna in the Samudayashtakavgarga will be as follows :— 


The proportionate Ayus contributed by the Sun 


228 meaart: 


=0 - 5 -.27 - 32 x 245644 (Samudaya years) 


- 79.4840 (Bhinnavus total 
= 0 Yrs. 5 Mths. 16 Dys. 33 Ghs. 


The proportionate Avus contributed by the Moon 


(Os5 0 Oe 55 OO). 

79.4840 
10 Yrs. 1 Mth. 22 Dys. 46 Ghs. * 
Similarly, the proportionate parts of the Ayus contributed by the 
remaining planets are to be found. They are given below in a 
tabular form against their respective Bhinnashtakavarga Ayus. 


Proportionate Ayus in 
Samudayashtakavarga. 

. Mths. Dys. Ghs. 

i6 33 


Bhinnashtakavarga 
Ayus 

Yrs. Mths. Dys. 
The Sun 0 5 27 32 
The Moon 10 9 23 55 


Planets 


Mars 12 8 20 23 
Mercury 4 4 25 £§9 
Jupiter 11 0 16 46 
Venus 6 1] 7 19 
Satum 9 1) 17 40 
The Lagna 23 1 

5 


FT Sate aedgad: deerettiant ae: | 
Rrareater erga warediseaet VerySTAHSAT | 132 1 
Paes FT UA weage | 

weary frargeraet: Arye: 1 1RY UI 


Slokas 33, 34 — The Bhinnayus Dasas are to be considered 
when :— 


(1) the powerful Moon is not in a Kendra ; and 


ASHTAK AVARGA 229 
——————— 
(2) any planet other than the Moon is powerful and 
is in a Kendra; or 
(3) the Moon in. conjunction with another planet is 
in bhavas other than a Kendra; and 
(4) the 10th bhava is occupied by benefics and male- 
fics. 
In all other cases the Samudaya Ayus system is to be 
taken. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope 
(1) the Moon is not in a Kendra : 
(2) powerful Mercury is in a Kendra (4th bhava); 
(3) the Moon is in conjunction with Jupiter and Venus in 
the Sth bhava. 
Therefore, the Bhinbashtakavarga Ayus system is anplied: 


BTR ITT: —— 

Saree SE war TET | 

AQ AAI YATASTAT | 
"Petar elrat Was aaa tsaashe: | 
Fe: Gegeraant fakraasaracatercar: 1184 UI 
Weaker Beret we Aenveche: fea: we: | 
agerarcataran wear Praca: 1126 1 


Stokas 35, 36—The Samudaya Dasa periods are to be 
taken when:— 
(1) the Moon in conjunction with any ee is ina 
Kendra; 
(2) the other planets are weak and not in Kendras; 
and 
(3) the powerful Moon alone is in a Kendra. 
According to Manittha (fea) When the Moon is in 
conjunction with one planet in a Kendra and when the 
remaining planets are outside the Kendras, one shows 


adopt Samudaya Ayus system. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :-(1) the Moon is not in a’ 
Kendra : (2) Mercury is strong and is in a Kendra. Therefore 


230 . eeHeaT: 


the Samudayashtakavarga Ayus system does not apply. (For the 
‘purpose of finding the proportionate parts of the Ayus given by 
the planets in the Samudayashtakavarga they have been calculated 
and given for the benefit of students, when such contingencies 


arise) : 
wage Sear Tas wT HAT | 
GAMA Ware MATA: | 130 1 


Sloka 37—Whatever Ayus is obtained in respect of a planet, that 
will be the Dasa period of that planet. I shall now. explain in detail 
‘the method of determining the Dasa order. 


area a at aeigeeder Hass eA gferahie: | 
TAMPA RATATAT SAT: AT IRS 


Sloka 38—The Dasa of that planet, which is the most powerful 
amongst the Lagna, the Moon and the Sun should be taken as the 
first Dasa. Thereafter the Dasas, of the planets in the Kendras from 
that powerful one of the order of their strength; of the planets in 
Panaphara houses and lastly, of thouse in the Apoklima houses 
follow in the same manner. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope amongst the Sun, the Moon 
and the Lagna, the Lagna is the most powerful (8.702 Rupas) 
followed by the Sun (7.348 Rupas), the Moon (6.756 Rupas) 
according to their Shadvargabalas. Hence the Dasa of the Lagna 
comes first. 

The Sun and Mercury are in Kendra from the Lagna. Therefore 
the Dasas of the Sun and Mercury (7.206 Rupas) come in order 
after the Lagna. 

Out of the Panaphara houses from the Lagna the 5th house 
is occupied by the Moon, Jupiter and Venus and the 8th by 
Saturn. The Dasas in the order of their strength are those of 
Saturn (7.997 Rupas), the Moon (6.756 Rupas), Venus (6.200 
Rupas) and Jupiter (5.368 Rupas). 

Next in order comes the planets in the apoklima houses. 
Mars is the only planet in the 3rd house. 


_ ASHTAKAVARGA. 231 


Therefore y the order of the Dasas is 1. The Lagna; 2. The 
Sun; 3. Mercury; 4. Saturn; 5. The Moon; 6. Venus; 7. 
Jupiter and 8. Mars. ; 


Watts See S Prat eset wee Ge 
Wale 3 Saageaprst Veet saa At set ARS I 
fareariggay watt yr Bart agers art 
areata fe wet: Bes west wa fag: FIT: VIO L 
Slokas 39, 40—To find out the sub-periods of the planets 
in the main Dasa period of a planer, the order is as 
follows :— , 
(1) a planet in conjunction with the main planet contributes 2 
of the main planet’s period; 
(2) thereafter, the sub-periods of planets in the 9th 
and Sth houses from the Dasa lord in the pro- 
portion of one-third of his period; , 
(3) that of a planet in the 7th house from the Dasa 
lord in the proportion of one-seventh of his period, and 
(4) those of planets in the 8th and 4th houses from 
the Dasa lord in the proportion of one-fourth. ‘ 
When there are many planets in a bhava only the 
sub-period of the strongest planet should be taken into account. 


Prearaars a atest Usa Aas | 
ASNT AA HAST ATA S ATA UNS 
Wer cael HE Saas ares fads fact fet aI 
CAMA CACM ATATATAT AATF | SR VI 
Slokas 41-42—Write unit for the main Dasa lord and 
the proportional fractions for the sub-period lords. Find . 
the L.C.M. of the denominators and multiply the fractions 
by the number. The figures obtained in the numerators 


represent the proportional periods of the main Dasa lord 
and the sub-lords for the common denominator. Add all 


232 Wea: 


these numerators and divide the Dasa period by this sum 
and multiply the quotient by the respective numerator of 
each planet to get his sub-period in the main Dasa. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope :— Main Dasa periods in 
their order :— 


In Solar years 
Yrs. Mths. Days. ° Ghs. 

1. The Lagna 23 1 4 41 
Kendra e The Sun 0 5 27 =32-« 4th bhava 

3. Mercury 4 4 23 59 " ” 

4. Saturn 9 11 17 «640 8th ” 

5. The Moon 10 9 23. «55 «Sth ” 
Panapharas }6. Venus 6 at 7 16” 2 

7. Jupiter il 0 10 46 -” ” 
Apoklima 8. Mars 12 8 20 #23 3rd” 

79 5 24 15 
(1). The Lagna Dasa and its sub-periods :- 
Bhavas Ist Sth 8th 4th 
Lords The Lagna The Moon (only) Saturn The Sun (only) 
Proportion 1 2 - a 
3 4 4 
_ 12444343 22 
= 12, 12 
.. Fractional parts 
12 4 3 3 
22 22 22 22 


.. The Lagna’s Antara 
12 
23-1-4-41x— =12 yrs. 7mths. Sdys. 17 Ghs. 
22 : 
The Moon’s Antara 
; 12 
23-1-4-41x— =4-2-11-46 
22 
Saturn’s Antara 
3 
23-1-4-41x — =3 - 1 - 23 - 49 
22 
The Lagna Dasa 23-1- 4 — 4) 


The Antaras in the main periods of the remaining Dasa 
lords are given below :— 


ASHTAKAVARGA 233 


(2) The Sun :—The Sun is in the 4th bhava from the 
Lagna. Mercury also occupies it. 


The Sun’s Antara qd = 0 —- 3 — 23 — 21 

Mercury’s » G) = 0 — 1 — 29 - 11 

The Sun's Dasa = Ovyrs. |§ Smths. 27 dys. 32 Ghs. 
3) Mercury :— Mercury and the Sun are both in the 4th 

and Satum is in the 5th from Mercury (the Dasa lord). 

Mercury’s Antara (1) = 2 4 25 5 

The Sun's” ) a ee, ees bey 

Saum’s " () = 0 — 9 ~ 8B 2 

Mercury Dasa =  4yrs. 4mths. 25 dys. 59 Ghs. 
(4) Saturn :— Saturn is in the 8th bhava from the Lagna. 


Mercury and the Lagna are in the 9th and the Sth respectively, 
and the Sun is in the 8th from Satum. 


Saturn’s Antara Oy = 5 — 2 — 11 — 49 
Mercury's " (2) = 1 ~ 8 ~ B-~ 57 
The Lagna’s  ” @) = 1 —- 8 — 23 — 57 
The Sun’s ” G) = 7 4 B24? & te 
Saturn's Dasa =  9yrs. limths. 17 dys. 40Ghs. 


(5) The Moon:— The Moon is in 5th bhava from the Lagna. Venus, the 
stronger out of Venus and Jupiter is in the same bhava. The Lagna is in the 9th 
and Satum in the 4th from the Moon. 


The Moon’s Antara (1) = 5 — 2 — 9 — 5 

Venus’ "i G) = 2 —~ 7 — 4 — 32 

The Lagna’s ” @) Shy CS Bae ag 

Sums =" (G) = 1 = 3 — 17 ~ 16 

Mercury's Dasa =  10yrs. 9Omths. 23 dys. 55 Ghs. 
(6) Venus :— Venus is in the 5th bhava from the Lagna. 


The Moon, the stronger out of the Moon and Jupiter is in the 
same bhava. The Lagna is in the 9th and Satum in the 4th from Venus. 


234 wena: 


Venus’ Antara gy = 3 3 28 43 

The Moon's Antara (3) = 1 — 7 — 2 — 21 

The Lagnas =” ) a ee en eee 

Satum’s ” (Z) = 40 9 29 — 4l 

Venus’ Dasa = 6yrs. 11 mths. 7 dys. 19 Ghs. 
(7) Jupiter :— Jupiter is in the 5th bhava from the Lagna. 


Mercury is in conjunction with Jupiter. Saturn is in the 5th 
from Jupiter. 


Jupiter’s Antara qd = 6 — oO —- 9 — 9 
Mercury’s ” G )}= 3 — 0 — 4 — 34 
Saturn's” G@ = 2 — 0 Se) Bi, ees 
Jupiter’s Dasa = Ii yrs. 0 mths. 16 dys. 46 Ghs. 


(8) Mars :— Mars occupies the 3rd bhava from the Lagna. 
There are no planets in the Ist, 9th, Sth, 7th, 8th or 4th bhava 
from Mars. Hence there are no Antaras. . : 

Mars’ Dasa = 12 yrs. | & mths. 20 dys. 23 Ghs. 
In finding the Antaras of the planets in a Main Dasa, the 
bhava positions of the Antara lords should be determined by taking the main 


Dasa lord’s longitude as Lagna. (cf. Shripati). 

“WHET Vel Ga Val Wa Bw ae KI 

fager wet gS aed fase ATLA 
Slokas 43—When the house occupied by a planet at birth 
contains excess of bindus over rekhas (in his Ashtraka- 
varga) his Dasa is auspicious; if the rekhas are in excess of 


bindus the Dasa is adverse and when the bindus and 
rekhas are equal it give mixed results. 


frgaet wert wreat warmer a faa: KL 
TSI Het Ha Ye aT aS ASAT KY UA 
VATEH Tet WT are TASTATK | 

at Tara wat Get TSH 

Ud faa wet TS WTA | 

WARS Wet ATA ATT alfa LE 


ASHTAKAVARGA 235 


SAAT Wet Varker ake %* I 
wat aarnet WT ye et wat waAT I Ie lt 


Slokas 44-47—The net-result, of the Dasa period will be 

good or bad as follows :— 

Find the difference between the number of bindus and 

rekhas and divide it by 8 (which is the maximum possible). 

If the bindus are in excess, good effects are given 
8 -0 


in due proportion. The proportions are 8 bindus 


= ] full ; 7 bindus u = 
and 5 bindus, + z Bad effects are found in the same manner accord- 
ing to the excess of rekhas over bindus. When both 
are equal, the effects are mixed. If at the commencement 
of a Dasa, a planet (whose Dasa is considered) transits 
a bhava containing 8 bindus the effects are full; with 7 
to 5 bindus, auspicious; with 4, mixed and with less than 
4, increasingly adverse. 
PRranesde froatarq varfirtterattes 
Wea Bes BAIT WM: VST TT HAT | 
earar aresrerr favea weer Areat: war: raar 
ATTA ATTA: YOST ACT: BAT LISS 
ares ATES T way A area: Fra: 
ae erereptrerre Sei ware aa} 
ar er rereeenfieecrer PART yPRaT LYS V1 


Slokas 48, 49—After completing the Ashtakavarga of each 
planet in the manner prescribed, note the number of bin- 
dus in the 12 bhavas. Divide the Dasa periods of the 
planets into 12 parts and allot one part (the years will 
be equal, to the number of months) to each bhava. The 
first duodecimal period commences with the bhava‘oc- 
cupied by the planet, whose Dasa and Ashtakvarga are _ 


== three quarters; 6 bindus, > 


236 wea: 


under consideration. The period corresponding to a bhava 
having less than 4 bindus will be inauspicious, and that 
corresponding to a bhava having more than 4 bindus will be 
auspicious. The bhavas having no bindu or less than 4 bindus 
will bring loss of wealth, harvest, cattle, etc. (in their 
corresponding portions of the Dasa periods). The bhavas 
having 5 or more bindus bring prosperity, wealth, etc., 
and bhavas with 4 bindus give mixed effects. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter is in the Sth 
bhava in Tula having four bindus. During the first period of 
(1/12 of 11 yrs. 0 mths. 16 dys. 46 Ghs.) 1] mths. 1 dy. and 24 Ghs. 
in Jupiter’s Dasa, there will be moderate increase’ in 
wealth, welfare of the children, intelligence and other things 
connected with Jupiter. 

The bindus in the 2nd house from Jupiter are 6. During the 
second 1/12 period of the Dasa, there will be increase in wealth, 
welfare of the children, intelligence, etc. In this manner, one 
should examine the 3rd, 4th and the remaining houses from 
Jupiter, till the 12th house, when the whole Dasa period will be over. 

There is another way of consideration also. Find which 
bhava from the Lagna is:occupied by Jupiter. The first 1/12th 
period of Jupiter’s Dasa gives the effects (good or bad depending 
on the number of bindus) indicatéd by that bhava and so on. 

Jupiter is in the Sth bhava from the Lagna with 4 bindus. 
The happiness through children, mental activity, etc-, are normal 
in the first period. In the 6th bhava from the Lagna, there are 
6 bindus, the 2nd duodecimal period will give freedom from sickness, relief 
from enemies, etc., and so on for the remaining bhavas. 

Similarly, the good or bad periods for each planet are to be considered 
from their Bhinnashtakavarga figures. 

This system of dividing a Dasa into twelve equal parts may be applied to 
other systems of Dasas such as Vimshottari, Ashtot-tari, etc. 


WSIS: 


RraeaeSsaTy TEM F IITE FTE || 


ASHTAKAVARGA 237 


zat wero aaa aa | 
Weret tet aieat Peet yeE TEL | 


ea wera ear TTT AETAT I | 

waaaprtaaes wafahsey | 

aberrant wertageredy | | 
wafehrat ufremrsterat ara | 
AAT HMHTAHT TT AT AT: 1 1Ko U1 


fargrrage Utrera BaF | 
aerate: satay TF APTA TIGL 1A 


Naat errs Wycht WNT Ae | 
fagetstere wat grat g fenet TAT KR 1 
aaas Horetat ferrarrsaraearg | 

ae arpa Va aa ara TAF 1143 11 


arr wetets cay heat sa | 
Rae Tar fares aA YY 1 


Slokas 50- 54-—-The Antardasa of the lord of a bhava 
containing only one, two, or three bindus in the Mahadasa 
lord’s Ashtakavarga, brings about distress, extreme suffer- 
ings in all undertakings and loss of wealth, grains and 
cattle. The Antara of the lord of the bhava containing 
five (or more) bindus is beneficial. It brings about suc-, 
cess in all undertakings and if there is Yoga (for prospe- 
rity) effect about that time, it will make the person very 
fortunate. In the case of planets owning two bhavas, 
when there are five (on more) bindus in both the bhavas, 
the Antara of the lord of those bhavas proves very auspi- 
cious; on the other hand when such two bhavas have less 
number of bindus in both of them, the lord of those bAavas 
will give no good effects during his Antara. Planets like 


238 wena: 


Mars, etc., (owning two bhavas) will give increasing good 
effects if there are more bindus in their bhavas. When the 
number of bindus and rekhas are equal, mixed effects are 
noticed. In this manner the effects of a planet during his 
Dasa and Antardasa should be considered in the Ashtaka- 
varga system., When the Sun’s house (Simha) contains less 
number of bindus, his Antara proves ineffective.: Similar 


is the case with the Moon. 

Notes : lf one of the two houses owned by a planet has more 
bindus and the other less, the effects of thal Antara will be partly 
good and partly bad. 


CHAPTER XVI 
PLANETARY TRANSITS (GOCHARA) 


ware site: fafsaPrarirer | tet 

fata argfe: areagergean | 

agaaa Yt Mara FTIR 

WS BH GT MeN Tasch fares | 

FATA aay eA TS 113 1 

wafahancrdt orsatteg far | 
Slokas 1- 3—The effects produced by the transit of the 
Sun through the various bhavas are as follows :-— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by him in 
the natal chart; (1) brightness, achievement of things 
desired; (2) increase in wealth; (3) agitation caused by 
enemies; (4) praise from kinsmen; (5) sickness, anxiety; 
(6) Sickness; (7) good health; (8) strenght, bringhtness; 
(9) happiness, comfortable journey; (10) wealth, mental 


happiness; (11) achievement of ends, attainment of results; 


(12) distress. 

: Notes . (Refer notes—page 63, Verse No. 4). When considering 
the Gochara (transit) effects of a planet, his Ashtakavarga 
alone, should be referred. Any planet while transitling a bhava 


will produce 8 different types of results depending upon his 
telative position from all the planets and the Lagna at birth. 

But these 8 types of resulis are neither experienced all at the 
same time nor throughout the entire period of the transit in that 


} In this chapter (a) the wrong readings are corrected in 
Round brackets; (b) suggested correct readings are given in 
square brackets. 


240 wena: 


bhava. When a planet transits a Kakshya, he produces one and only one type of 
result, which is according to the bhava position he occupies from the position 
(at birth) of the lord of the Kakshya transitted. The results are good or bad 
according to the presence or absence of a bindu in that Kakshya in the 
Ashtakavarga of the transitting planet. 

In the Standard Horoscope when the Sun transits the Lagna 
bhava, (i-e., 1-18°-39' to 2'-18°-39') he produces 8 types of results, 
good or bad, because he at that time transists the 6th bhava from 
Radical Saturn (bad); 9th bhava from Radical Jupiter (good); 
llth bhava from Mars (good); 10 bhava from his radical posi- 
tion (good); 9th from Venus (had); 10th from Mercury (good); 
9th from the Moon (bad) and the Ist bhava from the Lagna (bad). 

While transitting the 1st Kashya from 1°-18-39' to 1°-22°-38' 
(in about 4 days) he is in the Kakshya of Saturn. He is in the 6th house from the 
Radical Saturn and as there is no bindu in the Sun’s Ashtakavarga in that Kakshya, 
the result of the transit is unhappiness. (Ref. Verse 24). 

The Sun, while transiting the 2nd Kakshya from 18-22-38’ to 1*-26°-38', 
is - the Kakshya of Jupiter. He is in the 9th house from the Radical Jupiter and 
a it contains a bindu in the Sun's Ashtakavarga, the results are attainment of 
wealth, Dharma (duty) and success. (Ref. verse 19). 

Similarly, from 2°-15°-9' to 28-18°-39', he is in the Lagna 
Kakshya. He is in the 1st house from the Lagna and as it contains 
no bindu the results are loss of honour, vehicle and friends. (Ref. verse 26). 

In this manner the transit results of all the planets should be 
interpreted, taking into account the Ashtakavarga of the tran- 
sitting planet. and his relative positions from the radical planets 
and the Lagna when passing through their respective Kakshyas. 

The great acharyas give primary importance to the results of 
the transits of the planets, with reference to the Radical Moon only. 


PASTAS TATATAT TAT | AY A 
wrenntenit tat eave | 
ageepratreny faease gare vs 1 


ASHTAKAVARGA 241 


wrarrtanita: Hite TIT | 
qe walters, essa Treats TG 
Uae SqAaa: WHT WHAT TAT | 
wat: get wifes a feyfeaa tte tt 


Sr seg arareretershet ara | 

eAtgagairattiraeera SaRa: 1 1C 1 

aa ta feaveifaarer site wa Tt 

art eautqeartenpearat at aor AIT IAS 1 

art Frerranrg wart Rage at: | 

ST: eSATA AAMT | Io 
Slokas 4-10—(B) Beginning with the house occupied by 
the Moon in the natal chart; (1) sorrow, fatigue in travel, 
poverty (Pitibte condition), heart affliction, presecution 
by enemies; (2) heavy expense, exertion, anxiety; (3) 
attainment of position, honour, wealth and Dharma (duty), 
affection and consequent happiness; (4) impurity of blood, 
fever; (5) distress from relatives and children; apprehen- 
sion from King; (6) destruction of enemies, happiness, 
affection, good health; (7) weakness due to blood im- 
purity, uneasiness, indigestion, agony; (8) sickness to wife 
and children, ailment, loss of relations, trouble; (9) piti- 
able condition, loss of position, sorrow in debate (due to 
defeat, etc.); (10) acquisition of gold and apparels or gain 
of land; (11) sweetmeats, good health, position, mental 
happiness, fame; (12) loss of fruits of labour. 


weather -~- 
warqanaa avate faary erate | 
Fravst feta feate a geet aaa 
eIrokt gaa aPreayeeapeMEa | 
Wy wa Age wala we AE: wWerasiafaery | 


2A2 wena: 


TAM AAA TSH SIHTS FT Tet 
TRATMTAEHE: HAT ere TAT ATL | 
ater af Ree Freres 


WMT: Waasatherraat | 

eatin, ST galery warererf ref Tey tee 

gt wifraerens. tet SEAT ATTA | 

WS SET ATTA MTA | NR 

aaseer: carafta: wemfereg a | 

are aatget wifsedy searcher 1123 1 
Slokas 11-13—(C) Beginning with the house oclcupied by 
Mars in the natal chart; (1) income of Wealth and pros- 
perity; (2) inflow of money; (3) loss of prowess due to 
carelessness; (4) bringhtness, strength, good health; (5) 
sickness, anger through children; (6) sickness; (7) good 
health; (8) destruction of enemies; (9) sinlessness; (10) 
attainment of position and desired effects; (11) conjugal 
happiness, brightness; (12) grief, exertion. 

FAINT ATT TH | 

wee: ST TAT F Carat MPa aT | ey U1 

Arbre fer ahaa | 

araratedt set ar eager fave aT aTE L124 1 

fox ee way ATT Ger Aosrreg*he: | 

AY ATTA ATA AOTT: ATTA | LE A 
Slokas 14-16—(D) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Mercury in the natal chart; (1) frustration of ambition, 
sticknes; (2) quarrel; (3) interested in getting position 


and wealth; (4) fatigue in journey, threat from 
enemies; (5) good fortune, blessedness, (6) gain 


ASHTAKAVARGA 243 


of honour and riches; (7) agitation by women, imperfec- 
tion in speech; (8) sickness; (9) knowledge (learning); 
(10) praise from virtuous (elite) persons; (11) and (12) 
obtaining position, riches and good fortune. 


varerarerrat gt Rrra Fe | 

weet: ST GAT Y TTT AT: 110 1 
‘agar agra gat AAG Ys | 
wesfterary Gt Area aeerTar: 11S 1 
wert fox ratatisan: yr 

@ earatatstge Rasta 11k 


Slokas 17-19—(E) Beginning with the house occupied by Jupiter 
in the natal chart; (1) mental delusion, unhappi- © 
ness; (2) loss of wealth ; (3) loss of wealth and position, 
weakness of mind, ; (4) contempt from relations; (5) 
happiness, honour, riches; (6) mitigation of enemy perse- 
cution and sickness; (7) disillusionment, loss, exertion 
during travel (8) sickness, rancour, exertion during travel; 
(9) attainment of wealth, Dharma (duty) and success; (10) 
loss of position; (11) riches, happiness; (12) dishonour. 


yaasa frarraterie=aafererar: | 


fantestagerregete were: faa 1 1Ro 1 | 
Wa agar wrater wesady | 


weshtartt earikaey aifaeyay | 12 1 
four: HeAge at wrarTssa | 
Sr @ Barat HS ATTA IRI 


Slokas 20-22—(E) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart; (1) sickness, pitiable condi- 
tion, exertion during travel; (2) loss of wealth, injury to 
wife; (3) quarrel with women; (4) indifference of rela- 
tion; (5) Asthmatic trouble, increase of enemecs; (6) 
loss of enemies, attainment of position; (7) brightness, 
conjugal happiness; (8) trouble, unhappiness; (9) anger, 


244 . weet: 


cheating; (10) and (11) loss of fame; (12) attainment of 
honour and Dharma. 


Harerarearaent siftensit fara | 

gta: atitter aay gelasraer- ata: 1123 

Bratt: qart Hale: afer ! 

wee Ry PT aATATACTAAA | RY 1 

fox waa: wife: ware: ST TAA 

ST PAAR FT ATT ST STL ARE I 
Slokas 23-25—(G) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Saturn in the natal chart; (1) fame, gain; (2) prospe- 
rity, fame; (3) loss of wealth and reputation; (4) renow- 
ned in the family; (5) troubles in the family; (6) un- 
happiness; (7) attainment of great respect and food; (8). 
loss of enemies, affection; (9) attainment of position and 
tiches; (10) inclined to do good things; (11) riches; 
(12) sickness. 

AUMNAAASHSA AAATAG ETAT: | 

BI: ST at STA: FAA year: FIRE 

ge [a] = (A) annfadiesearcest: | 

alft: WOReCAT. wreatseaT VTE | Re 1 

fomsentisqaht: wretisarearsren: | 

erred Tsay war Pear: FHT IRS 11 
Slokas 26-27—(H) Beginning with the Lagna in the natal 
chart; (1) loss of honour, vehicle and friends ; (2) loss; 
(3) gain, happiness through attainment of desired ends, 
loss of enemies; (4) marital happiness; (5) unnecessary 
travel, quarrel, exertion} (6) fame, loss of sickness and 
enemies; (7) anger, fear of theft in journey; (8) distress 
due to weapons, enemy of fever; (9) contempt, imme- 


diate expense of acquired money; (10) and (11) gain of 
cattle, wealth and land; (12) unnecessary exertion, happiness. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 245 


SESH 


qatfiftsrareds war eedterz | 

ASE TAT T TIAA: FAT ARS 11 

wR Haghraat aefeacet Te 

waeat feat sr arerat MEHTA | [Ro Ut 
Slokas 29 - 30—The effects produced by the transit of the 
Moon through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun 
in the natal chart; (1) bodily afflictions; (2) sickness due 
to travel; (3) success, good health, contentment; (4) 
sickness to wife and relations; (5) increase of enemies, 
quarrels; (6) success, joy; (7) gain of riches through 
live-stock; [(8) good; (9) bad; (10) good; (11) good; 
(12) bad} 

Notes : Verses relating to results from the 8th to the 12th house, 
missing in the manuscripts. 


watssraareda Atraranfesthran | 
franftararer at eareraray ATTA 1132 1 
fraser: SEZs AUT Gata | 

FS VaaG eer EAA ATTA | 
Taastaassiet Vt APPA WaT | 
WSs AT GATT: FS TAT RZ 
Porras: Aye aA: | 

Hee Uafian eareweetsa PATA RY 
FAY AT: CATS aT: 

SI AAAS HAMA aA | RY 
art rere SIA | | 
BT SATS STAT TTT 1 RE 


246 wean: 


Slokas 31-36—(B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by her in the natal chart; (1) enjoyment of woman, perfu- 
mes and good food, getting new friends; (2) fatigue, 
heavy expenses; (3) gain of gold and apparels, happiness; 
(4) trouble from relations, sorrow, loss of wealth; (5) 
loss of wealth, indigestion, disease, fatigue in travel; (6) 
decrease of enemies; good health, gain of riches and happi- 
ness; (7) getting wealth, bed-requisites (7a) and 
gold, marital happiness, re-union with relations; (8) 
worry over disease, quarrel and general loss of all; (9) 
loss of honour and riches, heavy expense; (10) great res- 
pect, attainment of desired ends, mental happiness; (11) 
acquisition of affectionate friends, wealth, food, bed, one’s 
own status in society; (12) pitiable condition, idleness, 
state of being disagreeable. 


Tetathtet --- 
way aareaates wt we HATA A I 
Farah aeftrefate wre ert a wears ae: 1 

Uarearag Seat: WAST HTTATT | 

wfte: cat geet gy Aare ATA te 1 

Gara WT SETA AGIA | 

aanfees: Hares Area aT ATT 1 13S 1 

Rye dket waTaaAry | 

a Temas Mores ars 1138 

ae Hiftrghart Sia TAT | 

WTS wae RaeTretaera | Xo LL 
Slokas 37-40—(C) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Mars in the natal chart; (1) sickness in journey, dissen- 
tions among friends; (2) prowess; (3) recipient of honour 
in debate; (4) disease, anxiety and jealousy; (5) expec- 
tation of command, great activity in the family and good 
health; (6) happiness, loss of enemies; (7) bleeding . 
wounds; (8) disease, exertion in journey, confinement : 
(9) increase of brightness and general prosperity; (10) 


ASHTAKAVARGA 247 


brightness, command; (11) fame, gain of wealth; (12) loss 
of money. 

TATATHIT TS ATARI: | 

aay aera: eaTeeaThe: wife | V1 


Bea Gararatar fret seqearreare (2 

aarearIag: TS wat aa 

wrrrtarat fret at gartaday | 

qareiieattates: S weteratserat TSS 1 
Slokas 41-43—(D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart; (1) learning, honour, 
rejoicings in the family; (2) loss of money, (3) fame and 
brightness; (4) sweet speech of morals and good purpose; 
(5) escape from evil reputation; (6) humiliation through 
a wicked man; (7) mental happiness, knowledge; (8) 
gain of position and wealth; (9) inclined to bad ways; 
(10) sweet speech, intelligence, achievement of the ends 
(11) gain through lands; (12) dependence. 

Warren arate fret 1: 

aa ST ATTA AAS TT YY 1 

ga cagataanrat ret <arrerarshe: | 

eR WS Chga set Gr fer a aT IS II 

agaterratict: Creat FrTeapera: | 

arama aaa Vera TA | ved 


Slokas 14-46—(E) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Jupiter in the natal chart; (1) achievement of honour, 
wealth; (2) animosity with wife’s friends, (3) loss of 
self-respect and wealth; (4) conjugal happiness; learn- 
ing, welth; (5) loss of position through enémies; (6) 
sickness; (7) conjugal happiness, apparels; (8) riches, 
Strength; (9) mischief from relations, dishonour; (10) 
loss of enemies; (11) good meals, acquisition of conve- 
yance; (12) abatement of disease, (getting) riches. 

Notes : The results mentioned for the 2nd and 12th houses 
are according to Brihat-jataka. 


"248 wena: 


ET Aree: KAT Waser Fag | 
ANTS. Ta TEATS | Se 1 
WaT: FASTA AT ATT: TATA | 
WS Cn fates acaraiflarcent i ive 1 
Wiset WT GT wast ay TI 

ary Araeaytreterraareae 1 es 1 


Slokas 47-49—(F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart; (1) distraction (anxiety), quar- 
rel with women ; (2) loss of ornaments by forceful snatch- 
ing; (3) obtaining cattle and apparels, success; (4). 
gain of money through trade; (5) acquisition of food, 
respect and fame; (6) disease, opposition; (7) obtaining 
women, apparels and wealth; (8) disease; (9) worship, 
success; (10) riches; (11) obtaining women, apparels 
and ornaments ; (12) loss of hilarity. 


QYAAMET Waa oT TAIT | 

fade ore: careaattegetert t 140 1 

Fea sass wt rer feat aa 

wet aret Maren: het egy [rer Prat] 1142 rt 
Te Ural Vaal g-arateaay SV TAT: | 
QUT CTT AAT SAAT 1 142 UA 


Slokas 50-52—(G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart; (1) great hunger, injury due to 
stone; (2) loss of wealth; (3) fame through wealth; (4) 
misfortune, rheumatic fever, etc. ; (5) wealth; (6) wealth, 
strength; (7) loss of progency; (8) trouble; (9) blow or’ 
bruise, fever, indigestion, evil deeds; (10) exertion; (11) 
gain of wealth through cattle and servants; (12) enmity 
of wicked people. 

TAA SS Vasher TAT: | 

ararsenfaret: Sh ATA TAS TT 1143 

ayer: get fret yaad: | 
bide are A Anitsat ae | Kean 


ASHTAKAVARGA 249 


feaseale: Yeaea FYAAAITAT: | 

Taal ANS ATE eT TAT IKY TL 

wit: ga ae aiarsged wT! 

raters aero PRATT: WAT 1 KE UA 
Slokas 53-56-—(H) Beginning with the Leena in the natal 
thart; (1) fever, indigestion, vomitting, etc. ; (2) loss of 
honour and wealth, diseases ; (3) becomes endowed with 
honour, command and riches; (4) loss of relations; (5) 
trouble to children, loss of wealth; (6) loss of enemies, 
good health; (7) worry over money in travel; (8) distress 
in journey, sorrow due to friends, hunger, wounds 
from weapons, fever; (9) humiliation, trouble in journey, 
greed, delusion ; (10) achievement of the ends, happiness; 
(11) Happiness from female friends, good food ; (12) suf- 


fering due to labour, futility of results. 
aera : 


iar an asfiaudt we 1 

Praag eS Teta g Saas fqaa: 1149 11 

qasreg Fa AAT Fey Tr | 

ARG areseafan fsx Ararar 1 14¢ 11 

CRI ILINCe IDE MRCNTCIIE CLE 

ATTSt VaATTaa qereghTaaae 14S 
Slokas 57-59-——-The effects produced by the transit of 
Mars through the various bhavas are as fotlows :- 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun 
in the natal chart; (1) danger from fire ; (2) bilious 
troubles; (3) gain of gold and copper, loss of enemies; 
(4) ailments of body, ; (5) acquisition of honour 
and progeny ; (6) success, good health; (7) prolonged 
sickness after journey; (8) pain due to poison; (9) loss 
of command, fear from enemies; (10) relief from enemy 
persecution; (11) gain in position and hounour; (12) loss 
of intellectual power, worry. 


250 wep: 


PARE Ustataraatefaarar es | 
way esas fat wares SAAT | 10 1 


TATRA THAT TAN | 
Gea TaN TaTaR PaeISKAMTTAA | 1G 1 


ter Segaiensdtereati: | 
WS AZAA FC AAATAATLTAA bE A 


sista: catitsredtargearan: | 

aa faokena: wearst AISSA | 1e3 1 

Hea seaaeTy Srey ATT AT | 

Uae: fiRreteat wiser: |e 1 

ae ToT RATE: TAA: | 

arrive sat: wears FORTIES 1 
Slokas 60-65—(B) Beginning with the house occupied by 
the Moon in the natal chart (1) Rheumatic fever, fire 
burn, snake bite, wounds; (2) reverses, jealousy, sickness, - 
howling in distress, confinement; (3) plenty of food, 
contentment, brightness, honour; (4) fever, sickness, dis- 
gust, animless actions; (5S) anxiety due to enmity and child- 
ren, loss of wealth, fear of theft, wounds; (6) loss of: 
enemies, gain of honour, mental happiness; (7) loss of 
wealth, troubles to women folk, afflictions to sense organs, 
Diarrhoea; (8) fear from poison, enemy or disease; 
wounds from weapons; (9) censure (abuse), wounds from 
weapons, loss; (10) fear.of disease and theft, anguish, 
little happiness, wounds from weapons; (11) gain of land, 
copper, honour, attainment of command, rejoicings in the - 
family ; (12) dissention caused by women, anxiety, diseases 
of the feet. 


werathaat:—- 
. wy fae aaah fret ererrfert 
ae ah orate wet oboe 
CART CYR Taya Age 


ASHTAKAVARGA 251 


faftaamfttacracteeanga’: | 
BRST aT Hfaer: Ta: W RaMaaagfars TT | 
Va: Ver WA BWaMeA RASIEATT STATS: 1 
abana Eat | 
fade TATA A TTT SET aa lest 
qe frarifate: erewartera: Ee I 
WORST BA MH VAT AT 1 U1 
fRasiart aisorgia: @ ata? 
ay eavtgernita: Ararat aT ES I 
Slokas 66-68—(C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart; (1) acquisition of wealth, suc- 
cess; (2) obtaining gold and honour; (3) calumny; (4) - 
acquisition of friends and wealth; (5) dissatisfaction, loss 
of money; (6) cheating by enemies, sickness; (7) abate- 
ment of grief and sickness; (8) wealth, honour; (9) sinful 
thoughts; (10) devoted to social work; (11) obtaining 
gold and progeny; (12) loss of women, falsehood. 


wey eT I 

weet [a] fade wrehitstaftarger tes 

ya wakeara: Yaris | 

TS |: Hitarrat wrest Fr | to tt 

aaSEA Fasaaar @ [a] GAT | 

STA ST MT YTS: | 92 1 
Slokas 69-71—(D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart; (1) increase of vice and 


252 wena. 


enemies; (2) indifferent to the family affairs; (3) lord of 
wealth, enjoyments; (4) fear from one’s enemies; (5) 
getting progeny and wealth; (6) fame, respect money; 
(7) deluded while in travel, sickness to women; (8) con- 
finement; (9) disregard in the end caused by wicked 
people; (10) jealousy, apathy; (11) gain through land; 
(12) fear of theft during journey. 


wilareraregaisneat Ur: eeaATTNSHAAR: | 
wahrartart Ser ay Het AASTT 1 eR U1 
ge Fy] Sogenct freartsiat: gat 
mekiarar Ret er araksarree | bez 11 
Wiser Bx waarraiswitey Sl 
MMT AgaTa aaa ATTA: 1 eX Et 


Slokas 72-74—(E) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Jupiter in the natal chart; (1) internal disease, wound 
from weapons caused by enemies; (2) mental worry, loss 
of money; (3) fresh dissentions amongst relations; (4) 
fever, affiction to private parts; (5) sickness due to bilious 
disorders, fear from enemies; (6) fame, wealth, honour; 
(7) insult to wife, sickness; (8) disease;. (9) loss; (10) 
favour of honour and wealth, (11) gain of progeny and 
wealth; (12) honour, wealth, fame. 

Gaiters wat Faust 

eotash: cer Proreiite: weeerar tes 1 

wrqastaidar dqareeg TF | 

he: WS. et arat: eases ot FAI Wok 1 

ae CHa: Marat J wT t 

AUN Cart yas eaeaA TT | bets 1k 
Slokas 75-17—(F) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Venus :in the natal chart; (1) sickness due to phlegm or 
blood impurity; (2) danger from fire; (3) dissention from 
female friend, quarrel; (4) wound; (5) danger from fire, 


confinement, dispute with relatives; (6) prosperity; (7) 
loss of women; (8) wealth, happiness; (9) disorders. of 


ASHTAKAVARGA 253 


blood ; (10) agnoy, misfortune; (11) obtaining gold and 
progeny; (12) getting apparels. 


Terni safafe: Er TIT | 

wt, Sasge ACHRTaTAATETAT | ed 1d 
AATTATST GS FA WoSaTSTTAAT: | 
washed ered (2) fexsherasiter: | 18 1 


aastamt: aed aaa: Fe 
are aenisdeni here anberasherey | 1Co 1 


Slokas 78-80—(G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart; (1) acquisition of wealth; (2) 
loss; (3) enmity, beating, general weakness; (4) gain, 
activity (enthusiasm); (5) loss of health of progeny, loss 
of wealth; (6) fear of enemies, sickness; (7).and (8) abate- 
ment of threat from enemies and exertion; (9) gain of 
wealth and respectability; (10) favour of honour and 
wealth ; (11) fame, wealth, achievement of ends; (12) 
fatigue in travel, eye disease. 

AAMT ATT STATA R TAT: | 

earreatttert: SY seartheegath Com naa Et 

earner set Atgarhtast Fe I 

wesattarar sat aT eniaraeH ICR 

fos frasatt at wreasiiema pez | 

at fecarrat wer aferaday 1 1c3 1 


gatarrarentearay ara AAT | 

Cae OTT, ATT RATT ICY 
Slokas 81-84—(H) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Lagna in the natal chart; (1) brightness, com- 
mand, loss of enemies, rejoicings; (2) loss of position, 
wealth and reputation; (3) cessation of enemy persecu- 
tion; (4) fall in position (status), loss of strength; (5) 
affliction to wife and progeny, dread; (6) wealth, loss 
of enemies, merriment; (7) ailments in private parts, eye 
disease, bilious troubles; (8) bilious fever, enmity, danger 


254 wean: 


from weapons, blood disorders; (9) misfortunes caused 
by enemies; (10) relief from enemy persecution; (11) 
gain of gold, copper vessels, etc; (12) diseases of foot 


and eye, fear from thieves. 

WAASHAATM ET FEIT: | 

weiter: eT ereeeay FerreratsyST 1 1S 

HINT: FAN FAIA AT: Tet 

marae feat er Sereraretererae: 11E 

fax werner at faertatetasaa: | 

ayt @ wqenttatise WTA | co 
Slokas 85-87—The effects produced by the transit of Mer- 
cury through the various bhavas are as follows:— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun 
in the natal chart ; (1) decline of manly appearance; (2) 
loss of progeny ; (3) loss of friends, increase of enemies ; 
(4) family dissention ; (5) fame, happiness ; (6) obtaining 
progeny and wealth ; (7) abuse from enemies, loss during 
travel ; (8) sickness, quarrel ; (9) acquisition of learning, 
courage, wealth ; (10) inauspicious ; (11) obtaining cattle 
. and Jand ; (12) happiness born of knowledge. 


AMPs ERAE: | 
tay SRaranrarqarePradary co 1 
Bele wraqay YA ATARI 
aeearay YaeT PUTAS: 118 1 
gfahiat qateaer: warren fees | 
attendant Seater | 180 t 
gfamare faxer fafreatsrepioerat | 
at simstarersearantfafecery SL ISe 1 
eraqueftrnftaatataters ar | 
carafe eargtererar BrdaPOTA: 1182 1 


ASHTAKAVARGA 255 


Slokas 88-92—(B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) loss of honour, learn- 
ing and friends ; (2) relief from enemy troubles, sorrow 
and scandal ; (3) sickness, enmity with relations ; (4) 
honour, appreciation of character, joy ; (5) loss due to in- 
difference and anxiety ; (6) thoughts about prosperity, 
happiness, activity, destruction of enemies ; (7) disappoint- 
ment in ambition, pitiable condition ; (8) increase of favour ; 
women, qadrupeds, friends ; acquisition of honour ; (12) 
anxiety, futile labour. 


Herel rat:—- 
Road Broraftat anft aratagrcd fist rte) 
yartarrag reread ofS caraae weRaee ae: 1) 
qaewewnkt: WA EAMITATT |. 
er GarTaegdasarraratt: 1183 Ut 
ATCT: a FX aA: | 
anid Ryne eataearagarears 1 19y 
REY Mapa et AAS | 
@ aftaaraaray arash: WTA 184 11 
Slokas 93-95—(C) Beginning with the house occu- 
pied by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) attainment of desired 
ends ; (2) getting good results ; (3) fear of impeachment 
from others ; (4) gain of honour, fame and friends ; (5) 
heavy expenditure ; (6) pitiable condition in travel ; (7) 
getting women and apparels ; (8) respect from the public ; 
(9)increase of honour and wealth ; (10 fame, command, 
contentment, happiness ; (11) wealth ; (12) sin. 


WETHITA AA AAA ASAT: | 
ear warrants: Hse 
AWM FA FT MN TT | 
ws aot AT: TAT FT LIRe UI 


56° | wean: 


fox dRomseht qorat @setarrat | 
ay petaeatita: GEATATAAHT SC 1 


Slokas 96-98—(1) Beginning with the house occupied 
by him in the natal chart ; (1) gain in knowledge, rejoicings 
in the family ; (2) transgressing the moral codes (of Smri- 
tis) ; (3) decrease of enemies and sickness ; (4) sickness 
due to indifference, exertion, contempt ; (5) fame, wealth ; 
(6) destruction of enemies and sickness ; (7) exertion, con- 
tempt, sickness ; (8) threat from enemies ; (9) good 
’ behaviour, wealth ; (10) respect on account of wealth ; (11) 

obtaining land, gold and apparels ; (12) respect from 
friends, good food. 

Wrarerrerray ger freareteterz: | 

weftrntaerh:  Gaast aaSTT 1188 11 

GS Veneer Ate: YX AAT AT: | 

Wa: Wafers wast UST aA: | [200 || 

fox ruftadt g artaretsritsry | 

Asdeyfererat wet fers eaceesear | 1208 1 
Slokas 99-100—(E) Begining with the house occupied 
by Jupiter in the natal chart ; (1) loss of learning and 
wealth ; (2) disappointment in getting good friends ; (3) 
loss of happiness and vigour ; (4) quarrel, temptation ; (5) 
loss of respect and wealth; (6) success, good health of 
progency ; (7) oppression, loss ; (8) getting wealth ; (9) 
temptation on the way, physical pain ; (10) loss of wealth 
and fame ; (11) gain of desired objects ; (12) wealth. 

wan w frareatedternta: qarcgs: | 

ward: gala g fasritset FS TAT 121 

fer agente. wes AMiseteee: | 

Basta: Alga fx AGE aA | (203 1 

aastarattrartts: Aster: wera | 

wrattaraeees crise fate: | 1o¥ Ut 


ASHTAK AVARGA 257 


Slokas 102-104—(5) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart. (1) getting wealth through 
women ; eager for progeny ; (2) immense wealth ; 
(3) victory ; (4) wealth ; (5) getting cattle, land and 
progeny ; (6) sickness, loss of wealth ; (7) loss of 
wealth, sorrow through women ; (8) honour, happiness 
through friends ; (9) obtaining wealth, honour and 
friends ; (10) loss of money, exertion (fatigue) ; (11) 
mental happiness through wife, wealth and apparels ; 
(12) loss of achievement. 


waa F GAraattenifaearsarhtar | 

we yeaa wersas: 110% 1 

Fe F alfa fer gare: | 

PUSH ATS AAS SATAY | LE 1 
AMSSAST AIT TA: MTSAAAA: | 
ears MT PRATT ST: 1 Mow 1 


Slokas 105-107—(G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) brightness, gaiety, oblig- 
ing nature ; (2) acquisition of wealth through land ; (3) 
anger due to disappointment and exertion in travel ; (6) fever, 
bruise from stone, gout ; (7) good fortune ; (8) gain ; 
(9) gain of wealth and honour ; (10) attainment of posi- 
tion ; (11) acquisition of land and gold ; (12) sickness. 


wera ass: KArgaet (?) Heiters: | 
Hewat rnfratarest wafers 1 lod 11 
aratret aqat Hifaerregaeay | 
PRarfaratrart cir after Sq 1 1208 11 
Serta: Yar oS sieadeltger: | 

ayA Teas fox Mifa era | 1220 1 
arbre arrest at ir | 

SRT ARTA HATATIT ST TTT 11222 


258 ASA: : 


! 
walt: SaSTay Vea AAT 1 122 11 


Slokas 108-112—(H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart ; (1) wealth, conjugal happiness, rejoicings in 
the family ; (2) expansion of intelligence, obtaining 
wealth, proficiency in speech ; (3) discord with wife, 
enmity with relations, loss of brightness ; (4) gain 
of friends, respect, learning and fame ; (5) loss of health 
and wealth ; (6) brightness, wealth, intellect, progeny ; 
(7) inauspicious ; (8) satisfaction, pleasing, good health ; 
. (9) fatigue in travel, dispute, sickness, enmity; (10) marital 
happiness, good health, proficiency in Arts and elocution, 
strength; (11) welfare of female friends and servants, 
acquisition of apparels and progeny ; (12) ill-reputation, 


quarrel. 
Wareeat : 
watsatesiis fraratfanterafa: 1 
Ot Tt Geta FT Vreeb eer: | 1k23 1 


at auttdrantt eaten ga Fa 
are aeaferwartrade wacat WaT ey 1 


Slokas 113 - 114—The effects produced by the transit of 
Jupiter through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun in 
the natal chart ; (1) acquisition of friends and wealth, 
cleverness ; (2) wealth ; (3) destruction of disease, poverty 
and enemies ; [(4) auspicious ; (5) inauspicious ; (6) in- 
auspicious ; (7) auspicious ; (8) auspicious ;] (9)- piety, 
happiness ; wealth ; (10) attainment of ends, command, 
happiness ; (11) obtaining apparels and gold ; (12) in- 
crease of enemies: : 


Notes : One verse relating to results from the 4th to the 8th house, 
missing in the manuscripts. 


ASHTAKAVARGA , 259 


WaAsolararer Afra IAAT: | 

aranfafat ex eararaitea: Heiter: 11224 tt 

erste Rarrat ant seer free | 

Bert Serer: ATTA AAT AE 

errata: eriakerst Tay | 

we agftara: rereretatacrereh: 1 1220 Lt 

gq ce om \ 

HEM Serta yy TTETAT | 1k 1 

wrragaedtaet arearftasr er | 

wera (at) Harare Seerers BAT 1 12k8 1 

rarest: Bearearay Wear a ATT | 

TRAST MTT BET AAT LRT 
Slokas 115-120—(B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) temptation, loss of 
honour, position and wealth ; (2) acquisition of command, 
position, wealth, rejoicings in the family ; (3) loss of 
wealth on account of relations, failure of efforts, distress 
in travel ; (4) loss of desired objects, censure, dishonour ; 
(5) gain of position, apparels and wealth, fulfilment of 
command ; (6) dispute with relations, loss of action, 
’ threat from opponents ; (7) acquisition of happiness, appa- 
tels, good food and women, honour from Kings ; (8) 
confinement, sickness, dissension with relations, capital 
punishment ; (9) happiness through position, wealth, 
Children, women, obtaining respect and land ; (10) over- 
come by phlegm and ophthalmia, loss of desired objects ; 
(11) gain of land, family rejoicings, domestic happiness; 
(12) pitiable condition in foreign place, exertion. 


wHetalhtat:—- 


are caf eatripsamekght aa || 
pra ser Hera cara HA I | 
Sar Ea 
geegrreesra fege oa agar || 


260 wena: 


a ara eo PERN V1 
AVATTATGR TA ASAT: YT FT| 
erate get g eget efter 128 
ag arafrartadier wager | 


Saat TS ASAT TI RZ 
waesbaahosx at dhrada: | 


@ earaftaforeat. qereierekea are: 1 RBA 


Slokas 121-123—(C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) getting vehicles, happiness; 
(2) happiness, wealth ; (3) agitation from enemies, quar- 
rels ; (4) acquisition of honour and friends ; (5) uncon- 
trollable anger ; (6) cheating, troubles, ; (7) no disregard 
or censure ; (8) success, joy, help ; (9) loss ‘of good luck; 
(10) attainment of position, good behaviour ; (11) acquisi- 
tion of land and gold ; (12) expenses. 


Faas vile eters: | 
ee 
Sepia il gd 

we gon FSM 
fox amet eet areingeat 


et ee RE 11 


Slokas 124-126—(D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart ; (1) joy, prosperity, increase 
of progeny; (2) rise in position ; (3) loss of position and 
honour ; (4) acquisition of honour and Arts ; (5) acquisi- 
tion of fame and wealth ; (6) prosperity, fame, wealth; 
(7) loss of virtue and favour ; (8) waste of good speech ; 


ASHTAKAVARGA 261 


(9) excellence of speech and intelligence ; (10) wealth, 
(Dharma) duty; (11) happiness due to position and wealth ; 
(12) stupidity. 

werat ef gaia g fate: Gard FAT ize 1! 

wae pret wqanisitiara | 

PATCH A AHATATAT | LR 

enn feafasta: cart [rr] Rees a 

MY TAVTA: AT aTaTET UST 11929 11 


Slokas 127-129—(E) Beginning with the house occupied 
by himself in the natal chart ; (1) auspicious ; (2) suc- 
cess and wealth; (3) achievement ; (4) auspicious ; (5) 
dispute, fatigue in travel ; (6) agitation by enemies ; (7} 
and (8) good food, affection for women, free from sick- 
ness ; (9) loss of position and intellect ; (10) attainment 
of. position and fame ; (11) inflow of wealth, prosperity ; 
(12) exertion. 
Notes : One line missing in the manuscripts. 

PRAIA SS aay | 

ot aarfta: carat Be: AHASTSTT | 1230 

Gan eager. feat: weitere: | 

wosaiftedt qasenite: wae: faa | Rea 

qarkarrshay xt wrasse: | 

B Yara wasdettgarasraeay 1123211 
Slokas 130-132—(F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Venus in the natal chart ; (1) sorrow, misfortune ; (2) 
wealth, marital happiness ; (3) anger, quarrel through 
women ; (4) indifference from preceptor ; (5) obtaining 
wealth, family rejoicings ; (6) wealth, success over 
‘enemies ; (7) temptation during travel, (quarrel with 
women); (8) loss of happiness and wealth ; (9) honour, 
wealth and fame (10) happiness and wealth ; (11) acquisi- 
tion of wealth, women, and progeny ; (12) pitiable con- 
dition. 


262 -  aReHart: 


Harfaftorarsshs WAT Act WA: 

errera: [fecter], care sperarferegettery 1233 11 
aera Gane ser garnet | 

WS Toa ahes: FATT TATA | RY LI 
fastaraiers af areperat | 
eoRaretse TT AeQy SAT TTT 134 UI 


Slokas 133-135—(G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) dirty, bewilderment ,; 
(2) loss of money : (3) gain of wealth through land ; 
(4) loss ; (5) efforts of the son, rejoicing ; (6) good dis- 
position, acquisition of wealth (7) distress, fatigue in 
travel, sickness ; (8) loss of wealth, sickness ; (9) danger, 
worm troubles ; (10) dispute with enemies ; (11) inau- 
Spicious ; (12) wealth. 


AAT VT TAPIA: | FACT: | 
fect earat Ghat TAS TATA: 11236 1 
wmrasTae sat syATAa AT I 

AAT FECA TNH IT AT Fo UI 
Geet whee art. WS fms TAT | 
chanit seniaraaigenage G1 123 
HSA BROT: CATS ANA: SAT: | 


wae Carissa ary | 1235 1 
aay Usa atefaertarrs: | 


ay arareitientaataisatiaeres fear | evo 1 


Slokas 136-140—(H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart ; (1) gain in land, wealth and horses, rejoicings 
due to birth of a child in the family ; (2) happiness in posi- 
tion, gain of riches and respect ; (3) anger, slander caused 
due to discord with relations ; (4) happiness from relations, 
acquiring friends, good disposition, wealth ; (5) dignity, 
honour ; (6) acquisition of wealth leading to fame ; (7) 
gain of women, happiness from apparels, perfumes, good 
food and other things ; (8) phlegmatic complaints, indiges- 


ASHTAKAVARGA 263 


tion, fatigue due to travel ; (9) acquisition of position, 
learning, wealth, progeny, virtue ; (10) esteem from King, attain- 
ment of command, inflow of wealth ; (11) obtaining 
good harvest, cattle and land ; (12) loss of earned wealth. 


Wasa HATS FS TA | 

Rasher J GAA TT TT | gS 

qasktarmate: Saget THEATRES | 

Wierdaterrensd sarettrcret BA e¥R 1 

for aate ares at Pratkoreaat: | 

@ aaa aise anise Frew TT LAER 
Slokas 141 - 143—The effects produced by the transit of 
Venus through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun in 
the natal chart ; (1) repentance and little happiness ; (2) 
heavy expenditure ; (3) fear caused by discord with wife 
and children ; (4) increase of enemies and sorrows ; (5) 
exertion, break in travel, sickness ; (6) loss of affection, 
wealth and happiness ; (7) disappointments, quarrel with 
women ; (8) contentment, good health ; (9) anxiety caused 
by enemies and travel ; (10) misfortune ; (11) gain ; 
(12) sweetmeats, gain. 


SETA et Aaa 
aod coartreghy J (g) mene VIR 
uiyaritarge Gard wag 


Beiteaeat J ones I 
oxy fraret Wrest Sarat Peyfeaa | 

PTAA STAT: HYSTA FTL KE 

WEN Age enfaareterar AIT | 

at eAftraat: ahr eratatieade: Fath lev 1 
erage are fret a wha: | 

IY Aare erteatarsareaeeay eS 1 


264 eat: zt 
Slokas 144-148—(B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) obtains marital hap- 
piness and wealth ; (2) acquisition of wealth, women ; (3) 
joy, respect from women, land, garments ; (4) happiness 
from wife, children, wealth, friends and good food ; (5) 
great activity in the family, fame of the family, happiness 
from friendship : (6) pitable condition, dispute, disease, 
rancour ; (7) anxiety caused by debts, travel and women ; 
contact with bad friends ; (8) marital happiness, fame, 
mental joy ; (9) happiness of female friends, Dharma, 
acquisition of wealth, preceptor’s grace ; (10) enmity from 
own relations, obstacle, disrespect ; (11) respect from 
women, bed- “requisites ; (12) apparels, obtaining land and 
good food. 


atarenaitat acer GATT: AY FIAT | 

geet eetararat: wearer Praarws: 1 1e¥S 1 

wMater-qaer yoacawrend Ft | 

weet Argalet PAS: TASS 1 1240 11 

gare frat at aPrarteraeg @ 

abate, qatearar ane Pes eTTT L1G? 
Slokas 149-151—(C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) loss of women ; (2) con- 
finement ; (3) joy, honour, wealth; (4) bewilderment ; 
(5) courage, firm resolve ; (6) withdrawal of enemy due 
to great respectability ; (7) unhappiness, sorrow through 
women and children ; (8) misfortune, weakness ; (9) joy 
success in debates ; (10) loss of hoarded wealth ; (11) 
acquisition. of land and gold ; rejoicings on account of 
children ; (12) accumulation of wealth. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 265 


Notes : The results mentioned for the 4th and Sth houses are 
according to Brihat-jataka. : 


qaraureraay tetter yt: Ys I 
SSAA Y Wega 1 R42 


Gea ATs: SAT HT CATATTHTST: | 
wrererrat Reger aera Tay L143 


fox dace: eremaratieeg or 
St waafraast: Brahret aT |e 


Slokas 152-154—(D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercurry in the natal chart ; (1) bodily aliments ; (2) 
loss of wealth ; (3) annihilation of enemies and sickness ; 
(4) loss of honour and wealth ; (5) position, apparels, 
progeny; (6) maritime profits ; (7) loss of prospective 
work ; (8) loss of memory and strength ; (9) obtaining 
honour and wealth ; (10) break in religious vow : (11) 
wealth ; (12) reverses. 


Warrareraay ya teresa: aa: | 

aearer fata ereetaratsyy (7) 11244 11 
Fasiviarwa: MTA: FA 

BE VSS SPY TPIT TATA 1G 
at aracaratiear: sate: warhrarae: | 
TY AT AASATSST HHSTATATE 149 LL 


Slokas 155-157—(E) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Jupiter in the natal chart ; (1) loss of mental power 
and profits ; (2) fear of enemies ; (3) loss of Dharma ; 
(4) indigestion and accumulation of phlegm ; (5) posi- 
tion, land and progeny ; (6) sickness ; (7) increase of 
- enemies ; (8) attainment of position, good health, food ; (9) 
cleverness of speech, wealth ; (10) gain of wealth, appre- 
ciation from master ; (11) accumulation of much wealth  ; 
- (12) loss of effort, ill health. 


266 wana: 


array ys Preredkererry | 

Ager er getter go wife: eae AT Te eS 

Fe wagarnadee ftarsgEz: | 

wostarfreeaitey aratrarara: | es 1 

fox wife: gat at a wifadge: gaa 

gestalt qeararsearrat | 2&0 || 
Slokas 158-160—(F) Beginning with the house occupied 
by herself in the natal cghart ; (1) acquisition of Learning 
and wealth ; (2) marital happiness ; (3) attainment of 
position, gain by gambling; (4) respect from relations ; 
(5) gain of intelligence, honour and nourishment ; (6) 
loss of. wealth, distress in journey ; (7) loss of efforts and 
wealth ; (8) affection ; (9) auspicious ; (10) affection, physical 
comforts ; (11) prosperity ; (12) insult from low 
caste people. 

HAS: FRAC TYR ACTA: | 

Oy regen J wraeeret ray | kee 1 

fraratta: ga der eaahearedctry | . 

PAMATAAIT: I TS GIT TTS LET 

errattge fer afiieeg eit 

Ga S ehygaratharaty easethery 1 1263 11 
Slokas 161-163—(G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Saturn in the natal chart ; (1) quarrel and enmity with 
low caste people ; (2) sickness ;- (3) accumulation of 
cattle and wealth ; (4) getting friends and wealth ; (5) 
attaining position ; happiness, wealth ; (6) distress, neglect, 
disease ; (7) ailment in private parts ; (8) position, fame, 
happiness ; (9) achievement of ends ; (10) happiness ; 
(11) marital happiness, wealth ; (12) want of money. 


ATS Yas WnaeaTaeaTy | 
Se Miferettet shteraet caolepennfeeterry | ee 1 


ASHTAK AVARGA 267 


ga Aen rer arareage | 

WS ATTA It PT getfaraera 1 1e4 1 
fox arrears: ware TT (2) | 
SASHA TET HAVTSHT TATA 1 LE 


afrpenfeccarat ware TIT 
aera: afr qe: eateries PT 1 Ke 1 


Slokas 165-167—-(H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart ; (1) acquiring cattle, wealth and apparels ; 
(2) happiness due to affection ; (3) acquiring gold. pearls 
etc. ; (4) getting women, house, cows, ornaments ; (5) 
yearning for the wife ; (6) fatigue in travel, enmity ; (7) 
opposition from wife ; (8) getting variety of food and 
drinks ; (9) esteem ; (10) inferiority, aversion, inclined to 
evil ways ; (11) attainment of precious stones such as 
jewels, pearls, etc. ; (12) loss of money, fatigue in journey, 
loss of memory. 
WRePayt : 

Hester wieder: | 

eashtararegaer gy arraticarctera: 

Tey g TURE TI 

art Fart gettarrestt art 

HAS: TSAI LT AAT TAF | 1268 

atemrgearos area aft) 

@ HAghrarrst Fase BATA: | !o 1 
Slokas 168 - 170-—The effects produced by the transit of 
Saturn through the various bhavas are as follows :— 

(A) Beginning with the house occupied by the Sun in 
the natal chart ; (1) affection, joy, wealth, progeny 3 (2) 
loss of enemies ; (3) decline in honour, brightness and 
strength ; (4) happiness of relations ; (5) agitation in © 


family, sickness ; (6) quarrel; (7) happiness through wo- 
men and children ; (8) relief from sickness, loss of 


268 aera: 


enemies ; (9) inclined to sinful ways ; (10) progress in 
duty ; (11) happiness of wealth ; (12) waste of efforts. 
WAASSHMAAAS TATA TAAEF | 
eas farartet Gat y STA | 120? 1 
gatashtera: dhet Area AAT | 
Gaerne Feary TTA: 1 eR 
Ta Yaar: Sass feat: | 
WS WANT: ST TTA ATTA | VR EI 
BERT Hifearh: VaaTAeTATAT TA: | 
agararahtan ahahreraree | 10 1 
ae anfrrit at aaa wag | 
wide Vern: wetsaet ST (?) 194 UI 
WaT WAAC | 
VSP ST: CATT TS | LE 


Slokas 171-176—(B) Beginning with the house occupied 
by the Moon in the natal chart ; (1) confinement, fatigue in 
travel, rheumatism ; (2) wound by weapons, distress by 
position, expense, exertion ; (3) loss of enemies ; happiness, 
honour and gain ; (4) disregard from relations ; (5) loss of progeny 
fall in position and duty ; (6) loss of enemies , 
happiness, wealth, gain ; (7) loss of brightness, rheuma- 
tism, exertion ; (8) dejected due to many responsibilities, 
fear from enemies ; (9) sickness, exertion, enmity, loss of 
money ; (10) loss of money, duty and fruits of labour ; (11) acqui- 
sition of wealth through dairy products, servants 
and beautiful women ; (12) loss of action, proficiency, 
fame and position. 


Treats :-- 
Tis swagatet wmayartant 
; arsine aeorgeatraht wre | 
mart wgageeasearsarst 
wateesarad feat verre: FT 11 


ASHTAKAVARGA 269 


ATATITMTTAY AT Sa Tifa TH: | 
SHATMEGAT J ACATISAIAT | (9 U1 

PU ICP RIC PUR GIBIE IK i 

WS YUNA TTT ST ATTATAAT: 1 1Pee 1 

wh afewa PSs yaaa Ty 
 Gartaratater: SV ay AAT SAT FAT | 1268 11 


Slokas 177-179—(C) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mars in the natal chart ; (1) misery, weakness, sickness ; 
(2) loss of wealth ; (3) activity, freedom from enmity ; 
(4) increase of various difficulties (obstacles) ; (5) obtain- 
ing progeny, command and wealth ; (6) thoughts of virtue 
at the time of prosperity ; (7) enmity, exertion, sickness ; 
(8) wounds, danger from fire ; (9) extreme jealousy ; (10) 
getting happiness, wealth and honour ; (11) gains ; 
(12) happiness. : 


ATITATSHIAA AasarTasSt TATA | 

earyet artes earear rere rar gaT 1 RCo 1 

Ga Yesararay fret yarrareh: | 

W (q) Wee: WS TT aTIITATI TT 112 1A 
Rage yt at @ andere | 

IN Hearse aeTT 1 LCR 


Slokas 180-182—-(D) Beginning with the house occupied 
by Mercury in the natal chart ; (1) pecuniary and bodily 
troubles, disobedience of command ; (2) distraction ; (3) 
agitation due to lack of support from own party ; (4): 
breach of trust of friends ; (5) cognisance of misdeeds 


270 wepat: 


(offences) of progeny ; (6) good virtues, wealth, fame ; (7) adopt- 
‘ing to bad terms ; (8) happiness ; (9) auspicious, (10) actions 
arising after mature thoughts and words ; (11) obtaining servants 
and cattle ; (12) honour. 

WaT ATTA = 

yorerhy, fader ereeeat ata tec 

aah agqeraten: gafraraa: ya | 

asd acer fat sadtery ce 1 

FRAPATTATS: “erst @ eeneAy | 

Hep, Yt MAT waraferatatery 1 ec UI 
Slokas 183-185—{E) Beginning with the house occupied by Jupi- 
ter in the natal chart ; (1) weakening of intelligence ; (2) loss of 
things which are auspicious ; 93) bodily weakness ; (4) troubles 
from relations ; anxiety ; (5) acquisition of progeny and wealth ; 
(6) fame ; (7) sickness to wife ; (8) bodily troubles ; (9) reproach 
(insult) from servants and low caste people ; (10) bodily ailments ; 
(11) gain with little efforts ; (12) esteem from good people. 


yaretrerray tsreeteaay: Et | 

wastage YF FAAS Ts 1 CE 

PATHS AA ATAPI: Yer | 

Westar: WAAAY SH: | 19 11 

ot Aner cseahreraerd | 

earrehferereaneratass AAT |S 1 
Slokas 186-187—(F) Beginning with the house occupied by 
Venus in the natal chart ; (1) trouble to self and to women; (2) loss 
of wealth ; (3) sorrow and anxiety in confinement ; (4) quarrel with 
wife ; (5) troubles in journey, exertion ; (6) gain of wealth, state of 
being beyond avarice ; (7) and (8) sickness ; (9) pitiable condi- 
tion; fatigue in journey ; (10) want of everything (poverty) ; (11) 
gain of position, wealth, affection and brightness ; (12) auspicious. 


- ASTM AAY AS AEAAVITAAT: | 
eghtarrare at wurfetes: Tage C8 
yarage det wes warty | 


ASHTAKAVARGA 271 


eitftsreraet =e (BE anfirdrera 1 12¢0 Ui 
areata SAeteg FAT | 
SATS HGAT AAAS ANTS AIT 1 1S 


Slokas 189-191—(G) Beginning with the house occupied 
by him in the natal chart ; (1) wound from weapans, sick- 
ness; (2) sorrow ; (3) attainment of virtue ; (4) loss 
(wastage) ; (5) happiness due to progeny ; (6) rise in 
position and walth ; (7) sickness to wife, fatigue in 
travel ; (8) disease, loss of wealth; (9) loss (of gain) (10) loss of 


fruits of labour ; (11) gain of progeny and 
wealth in many ways ; (12) fear during journey. 
MTT HS A ATATTTAT | 
atertrnt: asttefatrercdtar 1 1232 11 
Tertaker Uete FART AIT | 
amrepaaearres Ryeararag FMT 1183 1 
watisrmarat saratt erry | 


AyardataPar Seta: TP ey 1 
ary Tet YET Brera AIT | 
IN CA eHeaa AIS ATATISaTSETT | ALAS 


Slokas 192-194—-(H) Beginning with the Lagna in the 
natal chart ; (1) honour, leadership in village ; (2) loss of 
wealth and ill fame ; (3) attainment of desired ends ; (4) 
happiness of family and wealth ; friendliness ; (5) 
activity (to increase) one’s pride ; (6) good health, loss 
of enemies ; (7) afterbirth sickness of the wife, exertion ;(8) loss 
of women, progeny and wealth ; (9) long sickness ; 
(10) prosperity ; (11) acquisition of women, cattle and 
iron ; (12) birth of dispute leading to misfortune. 


ware Yard facet araaeTTt | 

ATA ARAMA Arar HTT FA 1 1LE I 
Slokas 196 — The Sun and Mars give results (good or bad) in the 
first portion of a bhava ; Venus and jupiter in the middle portion of 


a bhava ; Saturn and the Moon in the last portion of a bhava. and 
Mercury throughout the bhava. 


272 wena: 


FEMAF --— 
Raeceet waste Tey ware ATTA | 
tagankrt fried ara: wereeg Tea | | 
areractt 
weft wat wat qeqyst yeaerayt |. 
uiraftrt ag Potaare wire: weaeeyg ea || 
SrarTseS - 


Rraigqartarat yer yaeraret weet AIATy | 
aeaftadt siaftet erg front a: aaesht ere 1 


wetalyar: -- 
ait ugar gacayeqar Urea | 

WAHT --- 

MATA ATATTTAT TATA a AAA 

Waa GAT: HAT AYR: AKAM AHATT: RATT | 
"wrTetreTferaT :-- 

Wart wacraret Jeqar | Aer | 

Wee Hea FIER F TAT | 


' Note : Kalaprakasika says that Saturn and Rahu give good or bad 
‘ results in the Jast part of the bhava while Mercury and the 
Moon give throughout the bhava. 


FMA THAT | 
AMAT FEMA Tet WsaP 1 10 


Slokas 197- When the Dasa is good, the good effects will be ona 
larger scale, and bad effects will be on a smaller scale. Conversely, 
when the Dasa is bad the good effects will be reduced while bad 
effects will be increased according to the strength of the planet. 

Notes : If a planet is associated with moe than 4 bindus in bis Ashtakavarga or 
more than 28 hindus in the Samudayashtakavarga and is powerful according to 
the Shadvargabala or bhava position, he gives good effects on a Jarger scale. 


The bad effects are on a larger scale if the planet is associated with less bindus 
and is not powerful as above. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 273 


CHAPTER XVII 
EFFECTS ARISING FROM PLANETARY POSITIONS 
AT BIRTH 


As the verses explaining the method of application of the 
effects were found to be corrupt and difficult to interpret correctly, 
their inclusion here has been deferred. 

The following is an attempt to give the gist of the meaning 
implied by the verses :— 

1. Observe the number of bindus and rekhas in the house 
occupied at birth by a planet (in his Bhinnashtakavarga). __ 

2. From the planet’s longitude find out which’ octave (ie., 
Kakshya) of that bhava is occupied by him. Note whether the 
lord of that Kakshya has donated a bindu or rekha. If there is 
a bindu the good effects enumerated under that Kashya for that 
planet will take place; when there is a rekha the bad effects 
mentioned under that Kakshya will take place. 

3. (a) When the planet is associated with 8 bindus (in that 
bhava) the effects mentioned will take place to the fullest extent ; 
with 7 hindus, to the extent of 7/8; with 6 bindus, 3/4 etc, etc. 
Even with one hindu only, in that bhava, the native will experience 
1/8 of the benefic results, if this bindu happcns to be in the 
Kakshya occupied by the planet. 

(b) Conversely, if a planet is associated with a rekha in the 
Kakshya occupied by him, the native will experience the bad 
results mentioned under that Kakshya for the planet (considered) 
to-the extent of I/8, 1/4, etc., etc., according to the number of 
rekhas in that bhava, i.e., 1, 2, etc., etc. 


Vearerateret: wrest waft vet mage | 
Rarrergseraage eras Ufsatsit Tt 
fetter: wort weyafadt Rreergqaeryk | 
ayes yale wera Fer FTIR 


274 HeHaM: 

Wear: eat wat SISTA BA: FTAA | 
fewagarttaragey AL wat att ATIF 1 
Bqa: Vara Tt Hota At Yas ery | 
aes Gat wret qalftad aaa WET IY UA 
Raat eS Gast area LY 
sate wadia ws ferat faaearsy fated sey | 
orate yetars wae eyes Le I 
Aerag Gy TATA at fart wy dteorehe: | 
seRRrt wyatt faarssitet TAGSA I be 1 


PSSA YR: Tat Teentaeraawa | 
Preaantht Aart Jatt salaet wah ATA Vc UA 


Slokas 1-8- The general effects arising from the Sun’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
When associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows;- 

Ist Kakshya : Courage; ownership of elephants and 
horses; association with friends and religious people and 
freedom from diseases. 

2nd Kakshya : Great valour ; abundance of wealth; 
victory over enemies ; avidity for learning ; royal favours 
and a tranquil mind. 

3rd Kakshya: Truthfulness: serenity: no worry over 
expenditure: respect from virtuous people: endowment of 
gold, progeny and riches: discrimination and good 
character. 

4th kakshya : Honour from all people: robust 
health: good character: honour from ruler: good luck; 
fame; a pious and philanthropic nature. 

5th Kakshya : Ownership of cows, buffaloes and camels: 
chief person in the family : favours from rulers : self-contol and 
devotion to Brahmins and God. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 275 


6th Kakshya : Destruction of enemies : a desirable 
person to women: devotion to preceptors and God ; 
abundance of wealth and plenty of food and beverages. 

7th Kakshya : Acquisition of women : noble minded- 
ness : endowment with authority : interest in sciences and 
a great warrior. 

8th Kakshya : Acquisition of progeny and wealth: 
excess of good blood and biliousness : undying fame ; 
self control and destruction of enemies. 


Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the Sun (4°-29°-40') occupies 
the 5th kakshya in the 4th bhava, and is associated with a bindu, 
ie, Venus the lord of that Kakshya has donated a bindu to the 
Sun (Ref. Sarvachanchachakra chart, page64). The native will 
experience the good results mentioned in verse No. 5 As the Sun | 
is associated with 5 bindus in that bhava, the proportion of the 
results will be 5/8 of the whole possible. - 


farghadtsdé: WHO We CaPsas STMT | 
eat Haet were faawelst Maat A IR 
ae Pee g car fade erat atarax | 
ferifiar {fear} woaekterpee whet se TAVE | 120 11 
Ae Jet ga Garter: uftahit aK | 
aay agergret fares G wet WAT 1 ee UI 
Pret gaet we pay eee Hoa Het Prat ATH | 
wehige waren wait AHA: METI U1 
weit ay: ag Taka wacarter Misa | 
SATAT TTATT AL AATTAT APIS 1 123 
we fer: WAM: Toft AC wasTARAaAaHTK | 
TAT Mery Hee AT TATA UE 
Profadst fact waat wraaeartates Terk | 
HUT AE GET ATA: Heater Bact GPS TT LU 


276 meaa: 
ease dermganrct at fart agiraaey | 


SOPH WH WTA FATT HAT HELA 
Slokas 9-16 - The general effects arising from the Sun’s 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as 
follows:- ; 

Ist kakshya : Sinful nature ; wikedness ; acute illness ; ema- 
ciation ;ingratirude ; desire for another's wife ; indiscretion and 
rashness. 

2nd Kakshya : Stupidity : vulgarity : bad associates ; 
sickness ; lack of wealth and food ; headache and fever 
due to sunstroke,billiouness, etc, and illness due to 
diseases of the mouth (¢.g., Pyorrhea). 

3rd Kakshya : Imprudence : lack of progeny, wealth and 
grains : domination by many enemies and slothfulness. 

4th Kakshya : Censure ; ungratefulness; coveteous- 
ness for other’s wealth; desertion by friends; desire for another’s 
wife and defeat from all people. 

5th Kakshya : Afflictions through sickness : rancour : pov- 
- erty and fear : misfortune : tete-a-tete with others’ wives ; coward- 
ice due to fear and hard-heartedness 

6th Kakshya : Defeat from enemies ; inclination to do base 
acts ; deceitfulness ; uncleanness ; robbery ; transgression from 
one's religion (moral code) ; lack of character and feebleness (over- 
anxiety). 

7th Kakshya : Poverty ; deformity ; shamelessness ; desire 
for other people's food, apparels and wealth ;materialism ; mock- 
ery and hard-heartedness. 

8th Kakshya : Inclination to commit many evil deeds; 
desertion by friends ; desire for another's wife; wickedness 
and miserable condition. 

_ Sarepatacry | . 
varkeraret feaekararet wary freaet Gat ATETEE | 

fret Fare WE [Lay] wH crates ass | 12 1 


ASHTAKAVARGA 277 


wepyaarst: fed fade agaamratiiertax 
ae weet weTeH Hea moTeTA aT TAS 


arTfrra: ay TaAeT: SUT es Sea ie 


sere eer FARE ee AGATE 1 


satvarentted Past watrerdtetat B2a | 123 r 
wrsee areaewage raat wert wren | 
HOt AT Alert Ayes Bracket sare TARE 


Slokas 17-24- The general effects arising from the Moon's 
position at birth in the different kakshya (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu)are as 
follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : Sood fortune ; king’s favourite ; devotion to 
preceptors and God ; visit to sacred places and fit to be worshipped 
(served) by all people. 

2nd Kakshya : Possession of elephnts, horses and 
vehicles ; also precious stones such as lapis-lazuli, pearls, 
etc. ; variety of pleasures ; courage ; serenity and affection. 

3rd Kakshya : Has a guardian-; modesty ; participation 
in many religious ceremonies ; prosperity ; virtue and. 
respect from kinsmen. 4 

4th Kakshya : Honour ; great renown ; possession of vari- 
ous kinds of wealth ; desire to costruct tanks, wells and resting 
places ; great man and happiness through children. 


278 wepan: 


5th Kakshya : Learning ; modesty ; discriminative 
sense ; enjoyment of variety of pleasures ; fond of 
guests ; patience in bearing everything and wisdom. 

6th Kakshya : Pleasing appearance ; good fortune ; agree- 
ability ; having wife, children and wealth ; delight in study of 
Shastras ; modesty ; honour from king and worthiness of respect. , 

7th Kakshya : Lusture ; ministership ; good character ; ob- 
servance of vows and fasts ; ritualism ; has a wife who is always 
agreeable and charming. 

8th Kakshya : Happiness and wealth ; Learning ; 

truthfulness ; courage ; an ascetic temperament and a 

fond of guests and Brahmins. 


warsae rene: wae: Mes FEI ATT | 


rary SITAR Set et CAPRA 
wate dat Pad fader at past aR FAT | 


meererg worear fae feats agers PTT RE 


vara ofa eget GON ATT ie i 
apt ore erage Ee 


Wt AAO HSt wat TT ATT PHrafawarry 1 132 1 
asad fret wre satht fast a eek | 
Merged areata wera Sera I 132 


Slokas 25-32 — The general effects arising from the Moon's 
position at birth in the defferent Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 


ASHTAK AVARGA 279 


when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as 
follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : Sickly constitution ; inclination to com- 
mit sins ; separation from one’s own people ; misery ; 
leanness and untruthfulness. 

2nd Kakshya : Ungratefulness ; acute emaciation and 
great misery ; creation of numerous enemies ; lustreless 
and abandonment by kinsmen. 

3rd Kakshya : Disfavours from the ruling power ; 
heavy expenditure ; serious illness ; affictions through 
phlegmatic and wind troubles (gout) 

4th Kakshya : Bad company ; untruthfulness ; un- 
happiness ; affliction from many ailments ; great ill-luck 
and indulgence in drinks. 

5th Kakshya : Loose character ; many enemies ; addic- 
tion to vices ; lack of honour and presents from ruling power. 

6th Kakshya : Service in foreign places ; ungrateful- 
ness ; subdual by enemies ; without honour ;trouble from 
‘ruling power and lack of wife, vehicles, etc. 

7th Kakshya : Much enmity ; severe sickness ; torment from 
ruling power or a robber ; diseases in the stomach on a large scale; 
loss of wealth and separation from the loved ones. 

8th Kakshya : Unfavourable results, such as sorrow, 
loss of money, etc ; and various afflictions ; deviation from 
virtuous habits ; loss of property and. wealth ; great fear, 
misery and grave misfortune. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope the moon (6°-13°-34') occupies the 8th kakshya 
in the Sth bhava and is associated with a rekha, i.e., the lord of that’Kakshya, 
the Lagna, has donated a rekha to the Moon. (Ref. chart on page 64) . The 
native will experience the bad results mentioned in verse No. 32. As the Moon 


is associated with 5 rekhas in that bhava the magnitude of this will be 5/8 of the 
whole possible. : 


Shears Aor alae a Gat TNT NeaT Beet TATA 13 


280 wena: Las 


avant fianasaté attest faa a aa 

PI RIEICCINC CE SIC BGC MCCA BEDS D 
watearney gafaenht ore Peers fark 
Fergferregeatenttre carat aes Fer Peay UR 


Broad qeharafas Remart AA SAT | Ig EI 
qatar ag tare: ateiigal ast ware | 
foot agartet aaakearet ag Sart Te 1 
west Het Ae: ANNA aEsTTT Peek | 
Sea ATT TATA Act AMT | ba 
WATTS SATA TATE CAAT TTT MATT | ate 
ahiset yforaratt a yor Pera aearsanye | 
aiwaat afrantate Passtrrgatars Farq | 1¥o | 


Slokas 33-40— The general effects arising from Mars’ 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : Gain of land and wealth, increase of 
live-stock ; various kinds of comforts and enjoyments ; 
respect from virtuous people and happiness. 

2nd Kakshya : Good health, prosperity of friends and 
wife ; elevation of mind ; popularity in public ; eminence 
and destruction of enemies. 

3rd Kakshya : Possession of asses, camels and various 
kinds of vehicles ; fame ; “eminence and gain of favours 
from the ruling powers. 

4th Kakshya : Valour, increase of good luck, happiness 
and prosperity, pleasure in receiving guests ; devotion to God 
and Brahmins ; recipient of honour from king and various gains, 


ASHTAKAVARGA 281 


Sth Kakshya : Visit to holy places ; gain of gold, com- 
fort ; great respect and happiness ; cessation of aftlictions 
and attainment of eminence. 

6th Kakshya : Destruction of enemies ; contact with 
relations ; apparels, bed requisites and sumptuous food ; 
achievement of piety and wealth. 

7th Kakshya : Proficiency in Learning and Shastras, rela- 
tions; bed-requisites,, apparels and good food ; sexual happiness 
and other advantages. 

8th Kakshya : Prosperity and eminence ; everlasting 
glory ; gain through merchandise ; success in agriculture ; 
attainment of desired objects and great prosperity. 


Fagieaah sqrt were ery cat esha AAT AAT |, 


Ag 
Hu 
ab 
14 


agtath: on 
Pareto yatta seepage Her TTL I 
et I ARTA AST AT ATTA STRAT YY 1 


HO at: Gy TET: HATTA Tete TOTAL AG 
ageearcrertaaet we fared fatasit arom | 

aa frat ag wedet Foatst aT a VISE 
are faant wafereat Si al a 


driven pet rami wena wr BT TUS 
Slokas 41-48 —The general effects arising from Mars’ 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bbava) 


282 wena: 


when associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as 
follows:- 
Ist Kakshya : Financial loss ; diseases in the back ; 
loss of intellect and happiness in the company of wicked 
_ people. 
2nd Kakshya : Severe headache ; fever and sunstroke ;loss 
of wealth by theft ; separation from beloved ; loss of intellect and 
friends. 
3rd Kakshya : Indulgence in sensual enjoyments ; 
censure ; association with wicked people ; bitter enmity 
and defeat. : 
4th Kakshya : Disputes and enmities of various 
kinds ; addiction to gambling and prostitutes ; defeat ; 
great fear and loss. 
5th Kakshya : Unhappiness, loss of friends and wealth ; 
loss of chidren and money ; separation from family for a 
long period and loss of valour. 
6th Kaksha : Dangers from quadrupeds, wild aati 
and snakes ; obstacles ; troubles from the ruling powers and 
association with wicked persons. 
7th Kakshya : Expenditure ; separation ; fear ; enmity 
with friends ; distress arising from diseases of tongue and 
eyes ; excessive indulgence in sensual enjoyments. 
8th Kakshya : Defeat ; diseases akin to death ; iss 
of wife ; deception by others ; wounds from weapons or birth 
of an illegitimate child. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mars (4°-7°-1‘) occupies the 6th kakshya in 
the 3rd bhava and is associated with a rekha i.e., the lord of that Kakshya, 
Mercury, has donated a rekha to Mars (Ref. chart on page 64). The native will 
experience the bad results mentioned in verse No. 46. As Mars is associated 
with 2 rekhas in the bhava the limit of this will be 1/4 of the whole possible. 


ASHTAK AVARGA 283 


wreat copra aarsitet aes Wa | 
pega bangs beh ial! Kot] 


Rarfat wreaks fafist adrrarareed ata yk 
welt aa: Gg Tae at Prat qa 
arrmranietaercnst ratact aferat BATT 143 
PRATT HRT MAT ST START AT TTT 
anfiaet ayaa ae: ASG aoe Dy 


Sed dee emg we get 
aaayanaadterga: adage wearer te 


Slokas 49-56— The general effects arising from Mercury's 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as 
follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : Good character, Learning, discrimina- 
tion, etc. ; many friends and freedom from enemies. 

2nd.Kakshya : Steadiness ; devotion to God and preceptors. 
; disposition towards Sciences ; many vehicles and beverages ; 
handsome form ; good luck and lustre. 

3rd Kakshya : Pleasant speech : respect from king and the 
enemies ; ritualism ; good luck, agreeability ; coquest over en- 
emies and performance of many religious rites. 

4th Kakshya : Graceful appearance ; fond of 
guests ; respect from one’s relations ; good intellect ; 
delight in the study of Scriptures ; ritualism ; constant 
observance of religious vows and fasts. 


284 weet: 


Sth Kakshya : Favourite of a king ; interest in the 
construction of rest-houses, ramparts and pleasure gardens; wealth 
and great devotion to Brahmins. 

6th Kakshya : Destructionof enemies ; gains through people 
of towns and villages ; great administratorship ; abundance of food 
and beverages ; fame ; valour and victory. 

7th Kakshya : Acquisition of wife ; conjugal hap- 
piness ; residence at sacred places ; full of happiness and 
prosperity ; pleasing appearance and good character always. , 

8th Kakshya : Possession of quadrupeds. apparels 

and wealth ; happiness through wife and children, 
honour everywhere and great dignity. 
Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Mercury (5*-5°-36) occupies the 6th Kakshya 
in th 4th bhava and is associated with a bindu. i.e, be, the lord of that Kaksbya, 
has donated a bindu to bimself (Ref. chart on page 64). The native will experi- 
ence the good results. mentioned in verse No. 54. As Mercury is assiciated with 
5 bindus in that bhava, the good effects will take place to the extent of 5/8 of the 
whole possible. 


frgitva: araganiaad waht wet weet act ak 
aratadt aterakargey aeat pellet AT BAZ 14 UI 
Whee Gest wage set paewyt 

pn BU UE aE tae 


vier a4 aaa SF aeariorpeee frat FT tig 1 
Fea eat Het Co Teh TK | 
what taygerge Hehe aha Gy TAT: 1 1eL tI 
weafea: elracer Yat AC wy arabic A | 
Taft ager Res Preanfaatst fees FHT RR 


ASHTAKAVARGA 285 


aha at aera era ae Se ae [are] cet 
WAUTATST Ba YaTT Heart MAT ToT IR | 


atdtgener aad RE TOA wat wae aI ee UI 


Slokas 57-64-—The general effects arsing from Mercury's 
position at birth in the defferent Kakshyas (in any Bhava) when 
associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as follows:- 

1st Kakshya : Inclination to be sinful, wicked and 
deceitful; neglect from relations; bad character and want 
of modesty. 

2nd Kakshya : Great affliction, desertion by virtuous 
people, humiliation : cruelty, ungratefulness and many 
sinful deeds. 

3rd Kakshya : Loss of children and wife ; slovenli- 
ness ; lack od lustre ; dirty body and troubles from the king. 

4th Kakshya : Great affilictions; without character and 
modesty, and desertion by men of good character, 

5th Kakshya : Loss of progeny and wealth ; slovenli- 
neess ; sufferings from diseases ; interference in other 
people's affairs ; defeat from other ; abandonment by God 
(good luck) and preceptors. 

6th Kakshya : Lack of wealth ; defeat from enemies, 
lack of Learning and want of modestry. 

7th Kakshya : Absence of enjoyments ; ; fondness for 
another's wife; reproach from people ; pitiable condition, perverted 
intelligence and apprehensiveness. 

8th Kakshya : Addiction to gambling and harlots ; irate 
temperament ; want of truthfulness and wealth ; fear: lack of 
everything and full of malice. 


 arerartaery | - 
Va Payee: Wa AC freer aaraqeHy | 
oY Haghernhad + east ASM TES LY 


286 wena: 


baled Wives aatwer eld wae ae VIG 
wate Pact wae at Yor wT week | 

SS YFS Wea Yr weaaae wert Ha TI Wo tt 
mientras Fae wel wad TOK | 

BraiPadt taper Gallas Yor: TTT tok 11 
waener: Eee free frarfakt waaay cere | 
At Pst AgUeAged THAT aT TIS UI 


Slokas 65-72—The general effects arising from Jupiter's 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas. (in any Bhava) 
when associared with a benefic point (bindu) are as follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : Culture and Learning ; modesty ; great 
intelligence and wealth ; a paragon of virtue and a favou- 
rite of Brahmins. 

2nd Kakshya : Happiness ; good fortune, agreeability ; pos- 
- Session of elephants, horses, vehicles, etc, intelligence ; honour 
from king and great renown. 

3rd Kakshya : Ministership ; many children and grandchil- 
dren ; compassion ; interest in the welfare of all beings , gibi 
nence in the family and good character. 

4th Kakshya : Endowment of gold, wealth and good intel- 
“lect ; cleverness ; discrimination and respect from kinsmen. 

5th Kakshya : King's favourite ; endowment of 
children ; affection towards people ; good character and 
interest in many religious rites. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 287 


6th Kakshya : Victory over enemies ; merriment ; 
well-nourished body ; full of respect to preceptors ; for- 
giving nature ; grear renown and a favourite of all. 

7th Kakshya : Delight in conjugal happiness with 
loving wife ; possession of wealth ; devotion to God and 
preceptors ; knowledge of good and agreeable talk and 
association with virtuous people 

8th Kakshya : Culture and Learning ;, fond of 
guests ; competency in all Arts; honour from king ; great 
avidity in learning many shastras ; great valour and vigour 


frghaat faye: waa AC Tet aePageTs | 

Ged past afereanrag faded agared | 1311 
fatto qftroneetet wt Poa: FET ATT | 
aaa Mae wy cated TI wx I 
hater Prevage faded: west WK) 
weaH a: Were SpahageIsae: FAST | Ws UI 
aga tape: WET esi agaGTayy | 
fraftard: uted a at gat seat at TI bok 
WTA TEN AL WAT FRAT | 

ol GU aa SR Sethe il ie a 
WS REN Feet: Wied crswrewx | 
west Faercest metered TaTTAN HH | Hee UI 


Rarroht sgards os waaay | Wes 

wey st &) ape wat aarkerrs Hlect AGENT | 

Bet To ea_eeT HET waa FG ATT | 1Co Ut 
Slokas 73-80 — The general. effects arising from Jupiter’s 


position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bbava) when 
associated with a malefic point (rekba) are as follows:- 


288 wemat: 


Ist Kakshya : Wickedness ; affliction by sorrow ; 
greediness ; ungratefulness ; baseness ; lack of strength 
(beingness) and rashness 

2nd Kakshya : Apprehension from king and robber ; wick- 
edness ; afflictions from disease ; ill-favoured posi- 
tion ; full of miseries and cause of the death of wife. 

3rd Kakshya : Poverty ; wounds ; a bad friend ; 
desire for another's wife ; ill-luck ; laziness and ungratefulness. 

4th Kakshya : Poverty ; many enemies ; sufferings © 
from itches, etc ; deceitfulness and crookedness in money 
matters. 

5th Kakshya : Afflictions of fever and scabies ; desire 
for another's wife ; 'great sorrows ; sinful disposition ; 
thieving habits and afflictions from great calamities. 

6th Kakshya : Eve diseases .nd other afflictions ; 
a barbarian in appearance ; tendency 10 cheat ; lack of wife 
and children ; non-performance of religious rites and end 
Jess sorrows. : 

7th Kakshya : Excess of phlegm, etc, hiccough, fever 
and other sufferings ; without honour ; pitiable condition ; 
reproach from people and very little happiness. 

8th Kakshya : Extreme arrogance ; crookedness ; dis- 
pleasure from kings ; loss of position (dignity) in one's 
family and a disfigured appearance. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Jupiter (5*-15°-35%) occupies 
the Ist Kakshya in the 5th bhava and is associated with a rekha 
i.e., Saturn, the lord of that Kakshya, has donated a rekha to 


Jupiter. (Ref. chart on page 64). The native will experience the bad results men- 
tioned in verse No. 73. As Jupiter is associated with 4 rekhas in that bhava the 


proportion of this will be 1/2 of the whole possible. 


YRTeHsHey | 
Venbrat teaypS: ET AC HAT YT YR | 
Rae eat wet qalgen wyUTAITAT 1 122 1! 
fedtan: arerge: [ata at] wae af a rent | 
enivict Bas ge waa wae TL ICR 


ASHTAKAVARGA 289 


gaiededt agaworadt at wed wat we | 
Rarer oat fad cafearagarct TL ICR 


Aaa: ast Get aero waaay Se ACE 
gat fart ag waned at Paid GurmTeny se | 
AERA AUaAeT ATTIC Vt 
wPset tenes waa at Pant Ga FAK | 
Wart agate Gat ateaad TICS Vt 


Slokas 81-88 —The general effects arising from Venus’ 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : Agreeable nature ; g00d luck ; good character 
; self-control ; charitable disposition ; pleasing behaviour ; devo- 
tion to religion (Dharma) and plenty of food and beverages. ; 

2nd kakshya : Great wealth ; virtue ; devotion to own reli- — 
gion (Dharma) ; modesty ; lustre and a favourite of people. 

3rd Kakshya : Many ornaments ; boldness ; great inrellect ; 
devotion to religion ; modesty and a favourite of God and 
Brahmins. ab 

4th Kakshya : Immense wealth ; endowment of good food, 
apparels and beverages ; possession of gems like lapis-lazuli, 
pearls, etc, and contentment. : 

5th Kakshya : Visits to sacred places ; acquisition of 
vehicles and progeny ; ownership of quadrupeds ; ne: s favourite 
and chief minstership. 


290 , . aeqat: 


6th Kakshya: Adherence to Learning ; knowledge of many 
sacred Mantras; gains from or through females ; good appearance 
; cleverness and proficiency in all Arts 

7th Kakshya : Great skill in enjoying carnal pleasures : 
enjoyment of saffron and apparels and honour from king. 

8th Kakshya : Expert in diplomacy; lustre ; great renown ; 
good acts (deeds) and interest in performing religious rites. 

Notes : In the Sandard Horoscope Venus (6°-15°-37’) occupies 
the 8th Kakshya in the 5th bhava and is associated with a bindu, 
i.e., the Lagna, the lord of that Kakshya, has donated a bindu to Venus (Ref. 
chart on page 64) The native will experience the good results mentioned in 

- verse No. 88. As Venus is associated with 5 bindus in that bhava the effects will 
be realised to the extent of 5/8 of the whole possible. 


aie eee Ae 
Fates: HSI Fea YR: MerereHahit WK | 

TURN Beat Haet Trae ATTA BAT IAA 
Tagan WagEd wat AC Hevenfergd <P | 

WyMerearetatet FT Tet Get USAT 1182 U1 
wht ER: Wy Tames wer eRe hapa ATT | 
Gigs wat Braet Pater 83 


Pelee Male ive 


ASHTAKAVARGA 291 


Slokas 89-96- The general effects arising from Venus’ position at 
birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) when associated 
with a malefic point (rekha) are as follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : Sinful nature : afflictions from many 
diseases ; oppression from the king : lack of progeny and 
wealth ; abandonment by relations and virtuous people. 

2nd Kakshya : Wounds ; without lustre ; inclination to sin- 
ful actions ; estrangement from members of his own family ; ex- 
treme grief and a voluptuous character. 

3rd Kakshya :Wickedness ; quarrel with own children ; de- 
feat ; slovenliness : distress through fever and want of 
self-respect. 

° 4th Kakshya : Full of sorrows ; afflictions through — 
incurable diseases ; poverty ; iack of quadrupeds and 
apparels ; servitude ; wickedness and without honour from the king. 

5th Kakshya : Poverty ; disfigurement ; lack of progeny and 
wealth ; indulgence in bad habits and association with wicked 
people. , 

6th Kakshya : Trouble from all people ; lack of affection 
and real happiness ; inclination to live in a foreign country and 
interference in othe peoples affairs. 

7th Kakshya : Afflictions from diseases. ‘caused by wind 
(ata), etc. ; wickedness ; indulgence in bad habits ; ungratefulness 
and lack of determination (sense). 

8th Kakshya : Base character ; afflictions from incurable 
diseases ; ingratitude ; always in want ; indulgence in many sinful 
deeds ; worry and inimical children. 


“Rated wae, wart Retaserret wea Se 1 
fetiadet cast, wat at Paid agarraenae 
eeAeae tare wag tee Sea LIS Ut 


eatrertrgreameaga AE war TiTAIMATAR L186 1 


292 wena: 


aa: BAYA: Wy AL Yatet garry 2k | 
SATUS AMAT WYATT AP TAIHA | 1200 | | 
“Ra He: Vy Ta AL Heit YR aT Pre 
ee eet et i081 


serarentt aerarart ReTaTs TOTTGITT | 1202 

WTR WaT Ia AL Tae WHT | 

fraaui Stet wits erg cel wae ANF | oR UI 

erent qiga wat ReareMret wz | 

froaarartagkagd Penta facet | 0X U1 
Slokas 97-104 — The general effects arising from Saturn’s 
position at birth in the differnt Kakshyas (in any Bhava) 
when associated with a benefic point (bindu) are as follows:- 

Ist Kakshya : A steady disposition good fortunes; associa-_ 
” tion with a good wife ; faa among men : modesty in dress 
and ornaments. 

2nd Kakshya : Worthiness for great honours ; endowment 
of valour, enthusiasm and wealth ; inrerest to go on pilgrimages 
and possession of excellent vehicles. 

3rd Kakshya : Ministership ; great avidity (to learn) for 
Scriprutes and Shastras ; possession of asses, camels and iron 
’ (articles) ; many chidren ; serenity and great influence. 

4th Kakshya : Many children, vehicles and variety of 
beverages ; enjoyment of garlands, perfumes, and incense, corn, 
wealth and excellent horses in plenty. 

5th Kakshya : Aristocracy ; happiness ; prosperity : ab- 
sence of enemies ; service to the king and a favourite of Goddess 
of wealth (Lakshmi). 

6th Kakshya : Good character ; ritualism ; devotion to God 
and Brahmins ; fame late in life ( or posthumous) : gain of wealth 
and gold ; grat splendour and honour from the king. 


ASHTAKAVARGA 293 


7th Kakshya : Great weaith ; alluring to beautiful women ; 
. Cleverness; great renown, agreeability ; proficiency in Arts and fame. 

8th Kakshya : Strange type of garlands and ornaments ; 
possession of gold, corn and wealth ; prosperity modesty due to 
Learning ; devotion to God and Brahmins. 


frgitve: qiae: wae sae aad ENT I 
Se oe ite mite 


aire aftaneatst BRATS Laon = 
Fadetstge: wae AC sete faaaheet aH 
sof weg to Ee ia i 
agin: qage. wat yehign west aye | 
fararant wagheatet Yer act peas tec WN 
Me Wat Tra: wae rast aforeasasyy | 
Bet aged cama SUSE Se 1208 UI 
WS wi Wg WAN WTA Teer I 
Gated wears wyRIS frratets TI V0 1 
We fart ag warmest at Praretrretst aye 
wer wet Porget earerst gtahrahsist a 1 ieee tt 
Misery: Her LU AC ae a_aracHyH | 
Pretexa: ifsergquent Preeranst Teta TL 1kT 
Slokas 105-112 - The general effects arising from Saturn's 
position at birth in the different Kakshyas (in any Bhava) when 
associated with a malefic point (rekha) are as follows:- 
Ist Kakshya : Unprofitable labour ; sinful nature ,; 
abandonment by own relations ; misery; pitiable condition wick- 
edness and oppression from king. 
2nd Kakshya : Evilmindedness : delight in sinful 


deeds ; afflictions-all over the body through abdominal 
diseases ; fickleness and miserly nature. 


294 wera: 


3rd Kakshya : Cruelty ; dishonesty in dealings ; gluttony ; 
untruthfulness ; thieving habits ; wickedness and oppression from 
all people. 

4th Kakshya : Unhappiness ; wounds ; defective complex- 
ion ; loss of sense and stamina ; servitude ; wikedness ; poverty 
and misfortunes. , 

5th Kakshya : A cause of disgust to citizens ; mean nature ; 
jealousy ; eccentricity ; loss of fruits of labour ; afflictions from 
sneezes (cold), wounds from weapons and cruelty. 

6th Kakshya : Sinful habits : lack of dignity ; fondness for 
another's wife ; afflictions from diseases in the anus and eyes ; 
sorrow, calamity and rashness. 

7th Kakshya : Inaction ; bitter enmity ; constant sickness ; 
lack of sincere relations ; loss of chidren and want of sense. 

8th Kakshya : Poverty ; sickness, inclination to mean acts ; 
afflictions as arsult of biliousness and serious illness ; residence in 
foreign countries and interfernce in other people's affairs. 

Notes : In the Standard Horoscope Saturn (9°-16°-11') occupies 
the 8th Kakshya (the Lagna's) in the 8th bhava and is associated with a rekha, 
ie., the lord of that Kakshya, the Lagna, has donated a rekha to Saturn (Ref. 


charl on page 64). The native will experience bad results mentioned in verse 
No. 112. As Saturn is associated with 7 rekhas in that bhava tie magnitude of 


this will be 7/8 of the whole possible. 


38 Wrong readings are corrected in round brackets ( ) ; suggested 
correct readings are given in square brackets [{ J. 


CHAPTER XVII 
SUMMARY OF ARTICLES : 


Abbreviation used : 


S.A.V. for Samudayashtakavarga; 
B.A.V.-for Bhinnashtakavarga; 
P.A.V. for Prastarashtakavarga; 


The authors have jointy and individually conducted work-shops on 
Ashtakavarga at various places e.g. Madras (1984); Trivendrum (1986); 
Bangalore (1986); Nadiad (1987) ete. and contributed articles in various 
magazines, such as The Astrological Magazine (Bangalore); The Times of 
Astrology (New Delhi); and Astro Futurology (Madras). : 


(1) Inall standard works on Indian Astrology now here is importance 
given to Ashtakavarga of the lord of the ascendant, exeept in. 
Vidymadhaviyam, where stray references are found herc and there. 


Devakeralam-Chandra Kala Nadi - (G.O.M.L. Madras) Vol. IT Part- 
Ipage 51 - verses 417 to 420- in these four verses the author Shri Venkatesh 
has exposed useful principles. 


When Jupiter transits a sign without a bindu (or having minimum 
ones) in the B.A.V. of the lord of the Ascendant, on the degrees of the lord 
of that sign (Suphuta-Yogam), the native has litde happiness. 


When Saturn transits the same sign, over the same degrees, the 
native will suffer much agony on account of quarrels. Conversely, when 
any planet malelic or benefic transits a sign having 5 or more bindns, as 
above very good results are indicated. (A.M. 1984 October). 


(2) (i) S.A.V. and Bhava-Phalam : 


For a house to prosper, it must have at least an average of 28 bindus. 
If any house, its Karakaand the lord, cach of them is associated with Icss 
number of bindu, the goed effects of that house are annihilated . 


Similarly, any house, its Karaka and its lord, each of them is 
associated with more bindus than 28, the good effects of that house are 
multiplied. 


(ii) S.A.V. and death : Jt has been observed, in practice that at the 
time of death of a native, generally Saturn transits a house containing the 


296 HHT: 


least number of bindus, or the X_ next lowest one. It is also found, that 
during such transit, the death of a nearer elderly relative takes place. 


(iii) S.A.V. - houses (Signs) associated with less bindus : If out of 
the 4 Kendras (the Ist, 4th, 7th and 10th houses) and two Konas (the 5th 
and 9th house), more houses are having higher number of biudus (e.g. 31 
and above), the native is very happy, in whatever walk of life he is placed. 
Conversely, if more houses out of these six, are having less number of 
bindus (e.g. 25 and below) the native's life is very miserable and is beset 
with obstacles at every stage of life. (A.M. January 1985). 


3. (i) Transit of planets through “O” -not- bindu sign : When 
each of the seven planets beginuing with the Sun to Saturn transits through 
a sign in their respective B.A.Vs. having “O” bindu, the results are as 
follows : 


(1) The Suu : Death or its equivalent troubles; 
-(2) The Moon : Sorrow; anxiety; unexpected death; oe 
(3) Mars : Stomach-ache; fainting; eye diseases; death; 


(4) Mercury : Less of everything (through enemy iutrigues) 
consequent death; 


(5) Jupiter : Loss of wealth or relations or children; becoming dull; 
(6) Venus : All kinds of calamities; and 
(7) Saturn : Less of everything; probably death; 


Death should be a certainty, if ou a day, the sum of bindus associated . 
with the seven planets in signs transisted by them (in their respective 
B.A.Vs) be very little. 


(ii) Results of houses having “<O” bindus in any B.A.V.: The © 
various houses (signs) in any B.A.V. having “O” bindu iu any house 
beginning with the Ascendant, give the following results to the uative : 


In the 1st house _ one suffers from serious disease; 
" 2nd” "= very poor; 

” 3rd” _ weak bodied; not daring; 

” 4h” — uuhappy; 


" pth” —  ‘ evil-minded; 


ASHTAKAVARGA 297 


Tn the 6th house — successful (victorious); 
” Th ” — without marital happiness; loss of wife: 
" 8th ” — healthy; long-lived; 
*" Oth ” — doing sinful deeds; 
"10th ” — without honour; inactive; 
" Tih ” — a beggar; without income; 
and” 12th ” — wealthy 


(A.M. 1991 January). 


4, Planets posited in natal chart get this effects enhanced or reduced 
by their placements in Navamsa Chart. According to Deva Keralam 
(Chandra Kala Nadi) Vol. II Part-I Page 5, verse 29.—“‘Ifan exaltéd planet 
in Rasi Chart is posited in debilitated Navamsa, the native is. unhappy; if 
a debilitated planet in Rasi Chart is exalted in Navamsa, the native is 
happy; while a planet in own Navamsa, or in Vargottamaconfersenjoyments 
and a kind of Rajayoga is formed.” 


Planets, otherwise powerful and well situated in Rasi Chart do not 
give favourable results, if they are weak in Navamsa Chart. “A Vargottama 
planet in any Bhava, with 30 or more bindus, advances the happiness of 
that Bhava to the greatest extent” - (in proportion to increasing number of 
bindus). 


A Vargottama planet, in same sign and in same Navamsa i.e. being 
powerful by position and also with higher numbers of bindus (in S.A.V.) 
in Rasi Chart as well as in Navamsa Chart gives very favourable results. 


From the above three points, it can be concluded that a planet 
associated with higher or lower number of bindus (S.A.V.) in Rasi Chart 
becomes fownful if he gets higher number of bindus in Navamsa Sign 
occupied by that planet. It is also true that the same planet gives adverse 
results, if he gets lower number of bindus in Navamsa Sign. 


(AM. 1988 July). 
; (5). Use of Rekhas in prognostication 


(d To find the good or bad effects of a particular Bhavaata particular 
period, take the shcdhyapinda of S.A.V. bindus. Multiply if by the 
corresponding S.A.V. figure for that particular Bhava and Divide the 
product by 27 to find the remainder. When Saturn passes through the 


298 rena: 

asterism indicated by the remainder (counted from Aswini star) there will 
bedestruction of the effects of that Bhava. The same product when divided 
by 12 and the remainder counted from Aries gives the Rasi and its trines 


which when transited by Saturn spoils the effects of the Bhava under 
consideration. 


Repeat the same process with S.A.V. of rekhas (malefic points) and 
find out the asterisms and Rasis as above when Saturn transits them the 
good effects promoted by that Bhava are experienced. - 


’ 


(ii) On a particular day note how many planets out of seven planets . 


transit through Kakshyas having bindus or Kakshyas having rekhas. 


“When the Sun, the Moon, Jupiter and Venus pass through Kakshyas 
having bindus in their respective P.A.Vs, they produce gain of wealth; 
these four planets and one more (out of the remaining three planets) will 
bestow great honour; these five planets and one more planet (out of 
remaining two planets) the native will have very good health, good dress 
and be honoured with robes (in modem times - titles, awardsetc.) and when 
ali the seven planets transit through Kakshyas having bindus, the native 
will gain kingdom (great profit, dignified position and the like). 


Similarly, if four planets (the Sun, the Moon, Jupiter and Venus) 
transit through Kakshyas having rekhas, there will be loss of wealth; if five 
planets as above, there will be disease; if six planets, great calamity etc. 
’ will fall on the native and if all the seven planets transit alike, death (of 
some near relation) is likely. If, at that time same planets transit signs 


having no bindu (Aksha-abhave) or minimum bindus in that, B.A.Vs, the _ 


native’s death be expected. 
(AM. Jan. 96-Annual) 


(6) There are quite a few verses in Sanskrit astrological classics who 
correct import has eluded the grasp of even learned astrological scholars. 


Jataka Parijata Chap X - V. 64; 

Ashtakavarga Chap XIV - V. 25; 

The correct meaning of the verse is as follows : 

“If the number of bindus (S.A.V.) in each of the house beginning 
with the 4th house and ending with the 9th, (i.e. including all the six 


houses) is between 25 to 30, the person will be carried in palanquin bom 
by men, i.e., will be as rich as Kubera, after completing 28 years of age.” 


Under theabove said conditions only this yoga becomes a rarity. The - 


ASHTAKAVARGA 299 


authors during their study of last SO years have come across, only 15 
horoscopes fulfiling the above conditions laid down. 
(Astro-Futurology April 96. Madras) 


(7). Foreign residence is loosely interpreted as staying at a very very 
' far off place from one’s birth place, may be native’s own country or a 
foreign country. Uttara Kalamrita considers the 7th house for journeys to 
foreign country; the 9th for travelling abroad and the 12 for going to 
foreign lands. Jataka Parijata partially supports these views. Modern 
astrologers consider the 7th house for foreign journeys; the 9th for long 
journeys and the 12th for journeys for permanent stay. Ln short the 7th, the 
9th and the 12th houses play an outstanding role to indicate permanent 
foreign residence. 


Arrange the S.A.V. bindus of a nativity numerically in a descending 
order with their house number marked in Roman. The last three houses will 
have to posses less, lesser and the least bindus. These three houses will be 
in any order forming a pattern as follows : ; 


(a) 7th, 9th, 12th; 
(b) 7th, 12th, 9th; 
(c) 9th, 12th, 7th; 
(d) 9th, 7th, 12th: 
(e) 12th, 7th, 9th; 
(f) 12th, 9th, 7th; 


These types of pattern are formed in Charts of many foreign 
residents. 


(T.O.A. June 95) 


APPENDICES 
1. The Ashtakavarga plate. 


' The preparation of the Bhinnashtakavarga of the 
planets by means of the mnemonic verses given in Chap. I 
involoves a great deal of labour and time especially when 
the number of horoscopes to be considered is large. To 
minimise this labour and save time, some kind of a simplified and 
easy-to-operate device becomes a necessity. The Ashtakavarga 
plate serves this purpose and one can prepare the 
Samudayashtakavarga figures in all the bhavas by one setting, 
at a short time. 

The handy device is fabricated by preparing nine 
circular: plates (of copper, brass, card-board etc.) The 
smallest one is with a radius of I inch and the subsequent 
ones with 14 in, 1% in, in, and so on so that the largest 
plate is of 3 in. radius. An axle with a screw arrangement is fitted 
through the centre of the largest plate and the other plates 
with perforated centres are passed through this axle, so that they 
can be turned about it. When all the plates are thus placed with the 
largest at the bottom and the smallest at the top, a narrow circular 
strip near rim of the 8 plates and the entire smallest piate arg ex- 
posed. Divide each strip into 12 uniform sectors by thin lines so 
that when the plates are Eagunte? for a horoscope, they form a 
straight line. 

Write down the names of the 12 rasis of the Zodiac in 
their order, in the 12 sectors of the topmost plate. Place a dot or 
other identification mark in one of the sectors of the remaining 
plates to denote the position of the planets related to those plates. 
In the Lagna plate write the bhava order in Roman numerals. 
In the exposed portion of the next bigger plate put down the 
figures—1 for the Sun, 2 for the Moon, etc.,—denoting the receiv- 
ers of benefic points counted from the Sun. For example, the Sun 


(2) 


Jupiter and Saturn, each receives a benefic point (marked by a bindu 
in the chart) in Ist house from the Sun, which is indicated by the 
figures 1, S and 7 in the plate. The 2nd house from the Sun 
contains 1, 5 and 7 representing the Sun, Jupitetr and Saturn as the 
receivers from the Sun and so on for the 12 houses from 
the Sun. In the next circular strip put down the figures 
denoting the receivers of benefic points from the Moon ; 
in the next from Mars and so on in the order the Sun, the Moon, 
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and the last plate the lagna 
(Ref, Parasarahora Uttarakhanda Adhyaya I). 

To set the plate for any horoscope, keep the bottom plate. 
i.e., the Lagna fixed and rotate the next plate (relating to Saturn), 
till the dotted sector representing Saturn is as many houses away 
from the dotted sector representing the Lagna as Saturn is away 
from the Lagna in the horoscope by bhava position. Keeping these 
two plates pressed by the finger, rotate the next plate (relating to 
Venus) till the dotted sector comes to the same bhava position 
from the dot in Lagna plate as Venus is in the horoscope. 
Next rotate the plate of Jupiter, keeping these three fixed 
and so on with the plates relating to Mercery, Mars, the 
Moon and the Sun. Finally rotate the topmost plate 
till the sector containing the name of the rasi representing the 
Lagna comes directly over the scctor containing the Lagna dot. 
Fix up the plates by tightening the screw at the top. It 
will be observed that the Lagna and the planets come directiy 
under the rasis which they occupy in the Bhava or Chalita 
Horoscope. The Ashtakavarga figures are then noted down 
in the following manner. The number of ‘1’s in the sector 
under Mesha sign represents the benefic points received 
by the Sun in his Ashtakavarga in the bhava indicated by 
the Lagna plate. The number of ‘]’s in the sector under 
Vrishabha sign respresents the Sun’s benefic points. in 
his Ashtakavarga in that bhava indicated and so on. Similarly, the 
number of ‘2’s in the sectors under each rasi represents the 
benefic points received by the Moon in her Ashtakavarga, in the 
respective bhavas. The number of ‘3’ s gives the figures for Mars; 


GB) 


the ‘4’s for Mercury; the ‘5’s for Jupiter ; the 6; s for Venus and the 
7; s for saturn in their respective Ashtakavargas. The sum of all 
these figures (nor numerical sum) under the Mesha ras gives the 
Samudayashtakavarga figure in the Mesha bhava ; that under 
Vrishabha rasi gives the Samudaya figure for that bhava and so on. 
The following chart shows how the different plates 
have been adjusted for the Standard Horoscope. All one 
has to do now is to collect the similar figures. in the several 
plates and their sum, in all the bhavas taking them one after 


another. For example it is found that in Mithuna (i.e., 
Ist bhava) there are 4 of ‘’s; Sof ‘2’s8s;3 of ‘3’s; 4 
of ‘47s; 7of ‘S’s;5 of ‘6’ s and 5 of '7's and 33 bindus in 
all when summed up. This means that the Sun has 
received 4 bindus the Moon 5 bindus, Mars 3 bindus, 


(4) 


Mercury 4 bindus, Jupiter 7 bindus, Venus 5 bindus and 
Saturn 5 bindus in their respective Bhinnashtakavargas in 
the Ist bhava and their sum 33 bindus is the Samudaya- 
shtakavarga figure in the Ist bhava. Similarly, the 
‘collecting of the Bhinnashtakavarga figures of the planets 
and the Samudayashtakavarga figures are carried out for 
the remaining. bhavas. — 

Parasara and Varahamihira difer at two places (Ref notes on 
pages 18 and 20). The figures in square brackets are according to 
Varahamihira. This book follows the Parasara system. Readers may 
choose whichever method they prefer. 

This device set for a horoscope can be used with great 
facility for plotting the .benefic points (by bindus) in their 
proper Kakshyas in the Sarvachanchaachakra (Ref. page 
64). The plate (consisting of 12 sectors) relating to the Sun 
represents his Kakshyas (in the 12 bhavas) and the figures 
represent the planets (in thir numeral order, i.e., 1 for the 
Sun, 2 for the Moon. etc) receiving bindus from the Sun in 
their respective Ashtakavargas, For example the Ist house 
from the Sun contains the figures 1,5 and 7-Plot a bindu in 
the Kakshya of the Sun in the bhava occupied by him in 
the Sarvachanchachakra in the 2nd strip (just below the 
strip showing the names of the Kakshya lords) which 
represents the Sun’s Ashtakavarga ; plot the 2nd bindu in 
his ‘own Kakshya in the 6th strip from the outermost one, 
which represents Jupiter’s Ashtakavarga, in the same bhava 
occupied by the Sun and lastly plot the 3rd bindu in his 
Kakshya in-the 8th strip from the outermost one, which 
represents Saturn's Ashtakavarga, in that bhava,. In this 
manner bindus are plotted in the other bhavas in the sun's 
Kakshyas. They are all in the Sun's: Kakshyas in the respec- 
tive planets’ Ashtrakavargas indicatd by the figures in the 
remaining eleven sectors in the Sun's plate. Similarly, bindus 
are placed in their respective Kakshyas in the Ashtrakavarga 
of the planets indicated by the figures in the plates relting 
to the Moon, Mars, etc, 


G) 


II, Precession ( Ayanamsa) on Ist January of each year 
based on Chitra (& Virginis, Spica 16) as 180°. 


(6) 


ayanansa 
Vikrama] Deg. Min. Sec. A..D. Vikrama | Deg. Min. Sec. 


3 34 1956 2012 23 13 38 
4 25 1957 2013 23 14 28 
1946 2002 23 5 15 1958 2014 23 15 18 
1947 2003 23 6 x 1959 2015 23 16 8 
1948 2004 23 6 55 1960 2016 23 16 59 

7 

8 

9 


1944 2000 23 


1945 2001 23 


1949 2005 23 46 1961 2017 23 17 49 
1950 2006 23 36 1962 2018 23 18 39 
1951 2007 23 26 1963 2019 23 19 30 
1952 2008 23 10 16 1964 2020 23 20 20 
1953 2009 23 et 7 1965 2021 23 21 10 
1954 2010 23 1] 57 1966 2022 23 22 ) 
1955 2011 23 12 47 1967 2023 23 22 Si 


The average change per year 50°°. 2622, i.e. about 1° 
per week. Subtract the amount of precession for the year in 
question from the longitudes of the planets, and the cusps 
of the Lagna, 10th house, etc., of the Sayana horoscope to 
convert them to the Nirayana form. Add this to the Nirayana 
Horoscope figures to get the Sayana Horoscope. 


III. Names of the Rasis of the Zodiac and the Planets and 
their symbols (Indian and Western). 
Rasis Planets 
al \e) The Sun 
Surya 
2. Chandra (4) The Moon 
ag 


1. Mesha Aries 

2. Vrishabha Taurus 
3.( Mithuna Gemini 
4. Kataka Cancer 


ies] 


Mars 


. Dhanus Sagittarius 


5. Simha Leo Kuja 

6. Kanya *=-Virgo 4. Budha ) Mercury 

7. Tula Libra 5. Guru (7) Jupiter 

8. Vischika Scorpio 6. Sukra Venus 

9 7. Sani Saturn 
8. 


10. Makara Capricorn Reon (a) ae 


Dragon's head 
Ketu @®) pone ; 

Dragon’s tail 
opied from the Janmabhumi Panchang wiih their kind 
permission P , 


11.Kumbha Aquarius 


be 


12. Meena Pisces 


5 
Ww 


7) 


IV A. About the Rasis and Plants :- 


Oddor Male or ord. house Orig. Exalt. Debil. 
Rasis even female Nature Swa. Moola Uccha _— Neecha 
Mesha Odd Male Chara Mars Mars Sum 10° Sat 
; 12-30 0-12 20° 
Vrish. even fem. Stthira Venus Moon Moon3®° — 
3-30 
- Mithuna odd male Ubhaya Mere -. = _— 
Kataka even fem. Chara Moon _ Jup. 5 Mars. 
28° 
Simha odd male Stthira Sun Sun - _ 
20-30 0-20 
Kanya — even fem. Ubhaya = Merc. Merc. = Merc. Venus 
20-30 15-20 15° 2P 
Tula odd male Chara Venus Venus Sat.20° Sun 
15-30 0-15 10° 
Vrisch = even fem. + Stthira Mars _- -— Moon 
. j 39 
Dhanus odd male Ubhaya = Sup. Jup. - _ 
10-30 0-10 
Makara even fem. Chara Sat. — Mars. 28° Jup 
5° 
Kumbha odd male Stthira Sat Sat - — 
20-30 0-20 
Meena even fem. Ubhaya = Sup. - Venus 27° Merc 
15° 


Chara = moveable, Stthira = fixed. Ubhaya = Common. 


Rahu: Vrishabha (Uccha), Vrischika (Neecha), Mithuna and 
‘ Kataka (Moolarrikona) and Kanya (Swakshetra) 
Ketu: Vrischika (Uccha), Vrishabha (Neecha), Dhanus and 


Makara (Moolatrikona) and Meena (Swakshetra). 5 
B. Showing Mitra (Friend), Satru (Enemy), and Sama (Neutral) of 
Planets. 


Mitra (Friend) Satru Enemy) 


Sama (Neutral) 


Sun Moon, Mars, Jupiter Saturn, Venus Mercury 

Moon Sun, Mercury None Mars, Jupiter, Venus 
Satun 

Mars Sun, Moon, Jupiter Mercury Saturn, Venus 

Mercury Sun, Venus Moon Mars, Jupiter, Saturn 

Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars Mercury, Venus Saturn 

Venus Mercury, Saturn Sun, Moon Mars, Jupiter 


Mercury, Venus Sun, Moon, Mars Jupiter 


(8) 


When the planets occupy the 2nd and the 12th, the 3rd and 
the 11th, or the 4th and 10th houses from one another, they are 
temporary friends to each other. In other positions, they are tempo- 
rary enemies. By combining the natural and the temporary friend- 
ships, etc, they become intimate friends (nat. friend temp. friend), 
ordinary friends. neutrals. ordinary, enmies and bitter enmies. 


V. Saptavarga divisions of the Rasis 
A. lords of Horas B. lords of Drekanas 


1. Mars 


5, Sun 


Mesha 9. Jup 


Vrish Moon Sun 2. Venus 6. Mere. 10 Sat 
Mithun Sun Moon’ 3. Meres 7. Venus 11.Sat 
Kataka Moon Sun 4, Moon 8. Mars 12.Jup 
Simha Sun Moon 5. Sun 9. Jup 1,Mars 
Kanya Moon Sun 6. Mere 10 Sat 2.Venu 
Tula Sun Moon 7. Venus 11Sat 3 Mere 
Vrisch Moon Sun 8. Mars 12 Jup 4 Moon 
Dhanus Sun Moon 9. Jup 1 Mars 5. Sun 
Makara Moon Sun 10 Sat 2 Venus 6 Merc 
Kumbha Sun Moon 11 Sat 3 Merc 7 Vean 
Meena Moon Sun 12 Jup 4 Moon 8 Mars 


C. Lords of the Saptamsas (rasi numbers) 


( Ist 2nd 3th 4th 5th 6th 7th 
Rasis 4 8° 12° 17° 21° 25° 30° 
17° 34° 51’ 8° 25° 42° 0° 
9” 1” 26” 31” 43° 51” 0” 
Mesha 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Vrish “3° 9 10 ll 12 1 2 
Mithuna3 3 4 RB) 6 7 8 9 
Kataka 10 i 12 1 2 3 4° 
Simha 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 
Kanya 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Tula 7 8 9 10 iH 12 1 
Vrisch 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Dhanus 9 10 n 2 1 2 3 
Makara 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Kumbha 1 12 1 2 3 4 5 
Meena 6 7 8 9 10 i 12 


Q) 


D. Lords of the Navamsas (rasl numbers) 


Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 
Rasis 3° 6° 10° 13° 16° 20° 23° 26° 30° 

20° 40° 0” 20° 40° 0° 20° 40° 0” 
Mesha | 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Vrish 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Mithuna 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
Kataka 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Simha 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Kanya 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Tula 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
Vrisch 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Dhanus 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Makara 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Kumbha 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
Meena 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ul 12 


E. Lords of the Dwadasamsas (rasi numbers) 
Ist 2nd 3rd ° 4th «65th 6th 7th = 8th 9th 10th 11th 12th 
Rasis 2 5 7 10° «12° 15° 17° 20° 22° 25° 27° 30° 


30° 0 30° ¢ 30 «68 O30 oO 30 Oo 30 0 
Mesha 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Il 12 
Vrish 2 3 4 5 6 #7 8 9 10 #11 12 1 
Mith ma 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 
Kataka 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 I 2 3 
Simha 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 1 2 3 4 
Kanya 6 7 8 9 10 IL 12 1 2 3 4 5 
Tula 7 8 9 10 #11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
Vrisch 8 9 10 It _ 12 1 2 3° 4 5 6 7 
Dhanus 9 10 11 12 Eid <3 4 5 6 7 8 
Makara 10 11 12 1 23 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Kumbha_ = 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 #7 8 9 10 
Meena 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
F. Lords of the Trimsamsas , 
Oddrasis —0°-5®_— 59-10 109-189 18-259 259-30? : 
Lords Mars Saturn . Jupiter Mercury Venus 
Even'rasis —_0°-5° 59-129 12°-20° ~—- 207-259 259.30° 
- Lords Venus Mercury Jupiter Saturn ‘Mars _ 


Example. In the Standard Horoscope Mercury. 5-5-56, has 
completed 5 rasis and is in the 6th i.e., Kanya From the tables, 
reading against the row of Kanya and under the columns within 
the limits of which this position (5°-36’) falls, it is seen. that 
the Hora shows Moon, Drekana Mercury, Saptamsa 1, Navamsa 
11, Dwadasamsa 8 and Trimsamsa Mercury i.e., the lords of the 
Rasi, Hora, Drekana, etc, are Mercury, the Moon. Mercury, Mars, 
Saturn, Mars and Mercury. 


(10) 


VI A. The 27 Nakshatras (constellation). the rulers of the Dasas 
with their periods in the Vimshottari system. 


No Nak. No Nak. No. Nak. DasaLord. Period. 
1 Aswini 10  Magha 19 Moola Ketu TV yts 
2. Bharani 11 PPhalgni 20 P.Ashadna Sukra 20 yrs 
3 Krittika 12. U.Phalgut 21° U.Ashadha Ravi 6” 
4 Rohini 13. Hasta 22 ~— Sravana Chandra 10 ” 
5 Mrigasiras 14 Chitra 23 + Dhanishta Mangal qe 
6 Ardra ‘15 Swati 21° Satatara Rahu 18” 
7 ~~ Punarvasu 16 ~ Vishakha 25 P.Bhadrapad Gum 16” 
8 Pushya 17 Anuradha 26 UBhadrapad Sani 19” 
9 Aslesha 18 — Jyeshta 27 ~~‘ Revati Budha 17” 


In the Standard Horoscope the Moon is in the Nakshatra Swati 
on that day and the ending period of Swati is at 17 Ghs. 40 pal. on 
the next day. The time still remaining to elapse at birth is 32 Ghs. ° 
46 pal and the duration of the Moon in Swati is 67 Ghs. 54 pal. . 
The ruling Dasa lord is Rahu and his period for the whole of Ardra, 
Swati or Satatara is 18 years. Therefore the balance of 
Rahu Dasa at the time of birth is 
32 Ghs 46 pal 
67 Ghs 54 pal 

This can be calculated from the longitudinal position of the 
Moon also. The Moon's position is 6°-13-34" and Swati extends 
from 6°-6°-40’ to 6*- 20°-0’. The distance yet to be covered by the 
Moon is 6°-20°-0’ minus 6°-13°-34’ = 6° - 26”. 


xX 18 yrw = 8yrs. 8 mths. 7 days. 


Batance of Rahu Dasa = 6°- 26° y 18 years, i.e. 8yrs. 8 mths 
: 13°- 20° : 

7 dys. There may be a slight difference between the two methods 
This happens because the Moon's movement is not uniform 
throughqut the entire transit over Swati. The other Dasas follow in 
the order given in the tables. The sub period (Antara) in Rahu Dasa 
is that of Mercury, At present these Dasa periods are reckoned in 
solar years. ~ 


B. THE ANTARDASA PERIODS OF THE VARIOUS NAKSHATRA DASAS 


Yrs . . De Yrs Ms. Ds. 

0 3 18 Moon aoe ) 10 0 
0 6 0 Mars a 7 1 
0 4 6 | — Rabu 1 6 0 
0 10.24 > Jupiter 1 4 t 
0 9 18 |S Saturn 1 7 0 
0 Wo 12 g Mercury... 1 5 0 
0 10 6 |S Kew en) 7 A 
9 4 6 Venus su 1 8 0 
1 0 6 


BASHOAAYNAILOooococscscoco#F 


2 8 Jupiter 2 1 1 3 0 3 
2 Jupiter 2 4 Saturn 2 6 1 Mercury 2 8 9 
3 Saturn 2 10 § Mercury 2 3 a Ketu 1 I 9 
mB Mercury 2 6 2 Ket ‘ 0 11 > Venus 3 2 0 
7% = Ketu 1 0 ‘©. Venus 2 8 g Fae : 1 4 F 
3 Venus 3 0 Sun 0 9 1 ‘oon 
3 Sun 0 10 3 Moon 1 4 g Murs 5 1 : 
Moon 1 6 o |e 0 i oF ha. 2 IO. 
Mars 1 0 18 2 4 2 upiter 
Mer 2 4 0 4 27 Venus 3 4 0 
g Pat o . il 1 2 0 1 Sun 1 0 0 
2 Venus » 2 3 10 0 4 6 = Moon 1 8 0 
iy f Q Mars 1 2 0 
m Sua 0 10 0 7 0 & Ran . 4 : 
Moon eens a Aa 2 Jupiter 2 8 Oo 
Ey Mars 6 21.27 Rahu 1 o 18 3 ‘Sone 3 3 a 
3  Rahu 2 6 18 Japiter 0 11 6 Mercury 2 10 0 
= ‘Jupiter 2 3 6) Saturn 1 1 9 ’ mt 
Saturn 2 8 9 Mercury 0 11 27 Ketu 1 2 0 


(IT) 


- 14, 


15. 


16. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Brihat-jataka of Varahamihira (505-578 A.D.), Eng. translation by 
Swami Vijnanananda, Sacred Book of the East, Vol. X11 (1908). 
Brihat-jataka with Sanskrit commentary of Rudra, 15th century 
(Trivandrum 1916). 


-Brihat-jataka: Eng. transation by Panditabhushana V. Subrahmanya 


Sastri, B.A., (Bangalore 1929). 
Brihat-jataka: Eng. translation by N. Chidambara lyer, (Adyar 
1921). 


. Jataka-parijata of Vaidyanatha Daivajna (1425 A_D.), with sanskrit 


commentary “Sudhasalini” of Pandit Kapileswara Sastri and Hindi 
commentary “Vimala” by Pandit Matruprasad Sastri (Benares 
(1942). 

Jataka-parijata with Eng. translation by Panditabhushana V. 
Snbrahamanya Sastri, B.a., (Bangalore 1933). 
Vidyamadhaviyam of Vidya Madhava with Vishnusarma’s 


* commentary Muhurthadipika, (1363 A.D.), edited by dr. R. Shama 


Sastry (Mysore 1923). 

Phaladeepika of Mantreswara (17th century), Eng. translation by 
Panditabhushana V. Subrahamnya Sastri, B.A., (Bangalore 1932). 
Phaadeepika : Editions in regional languages. 

Saravali of Kalyanavarma (10th century?), edited by P.V. S. Sastri 
B.A., Bombay 1928. 

Saravai Hindi translation by Pandit Shri Sitaram Jha, (Benares 
1953). ; : 
Saravali : Malayalam edition by P.S.P. Namboodiri, (Quilon 1927). 
Manasagaripaddbati (?) Edited by Shri Misraparmananda Sasti, 
with Hindi trfanslation, (Benares (1948). 

Jatakabharanaof Dhundhiraja(1 6th century), with Hindi translation 
by Pandi Shyamlal, (Bombay 1930). 

Shamhu-horaprakasha of Punjaraja with Hindi translation by 
Pandit Mahidharasharma, (Bombay 1937). 

Kalaprakasika of Narasimha (?)Eng. translation by N.P.Subramania 
Iyer, (Tanjore 1927). 


_17-18. Jyotisha Vijnan ane Laghu Parasari (1937); Jyotisha Vijnan, Ane 


19. 


Ashtakavarga (1938) by Shri Uttamram Mayaram Thakar, B.A., 
L.L.B., Gn Gujarati, Ahmedabad)... 

Prasnamarga (1650 A.D.): with Malayalam translation by 
Punnassiri Neelakantha Sarma, (Trichur 1916). 


Prasnamarga: with Malayalam wanslation by K. Neelakantha 
Asari (Quion 1927). 

Jatakadesamarga of Somayaji of Podumanai (1680 A.D.?), Eng. 
translation and notes by P.V.S. Sastri, B.A., (Bangalore 1942), 
Jatakadesamarga : Malayalam translation by K. Sankaran 
Namboodiri (Trichur 1924). 

Jatakadesamarga : Malayalam translation by K. Neelakantan 
Asari, (Quilon 1927). 

Krishneeyam (?), Malayalam edition (Quilon 1931). 
Brihat-parasarahorasastra with Subodbini Sanskrit commentary 
of Shridhara (Bombay 1925). 

Brihat-parasarahorasastra Hindi translation by Pandit Shri Sitaram 
Jha, (Benares (1946). : 
Jatakatilaka of Kamalakar (1665 A.D.) : Ms. copy. Bhan Daji 
Collection, Asiatic Society of Bombay. , 
Brihat-yavanajataka ofMeenaraja(150 B.C.)Ms. copy, Bhandarkar 
Oriental Research Institute, Poona. 

Brihat-yavanajataka : Ms. copy, Borada Oriental Institute, Borada. 
Jyotishashyamsangraha with hindi transation by Pandit Shyamlal 
(Bombay 1927). : 

Jyotishashyamsangraha by Pandit Shri Laxmi Prasad Pathaka, 
Qubbulopore 1950). - 

Horamakaranda of Gunakara (1496 A.D.). 

Laghujataka of Varahamihira (Bombay). 

Horasara of Prithuyasas (6th century), with Eng. translation by 
P.V.S. Sastri, B.A., and V.M. Ramkrishna Bhatt (Bangalore 1949). 
Muhurtadeepika of Ramacharya (1600 A.D.), (Bombay). 
Jataka-chandrika of Shri Yajniknatha edited by Shri Himmatram 
M. jani and Shri Manishankar K. Joshi (in Gujarati, Ahmedabad 
1939). 


37-38. Devakeralam (Chandrakalanadi) by Achyuta, Part 1—Vols. 1 


39. 


(1952) and 1 (1956), edited by Shri T.S. Ranganatha Josyar, 
Madras Government Oriental Series, Madras. 

Jatakasaradipa by Nrisimba Daivajna, edited by Shri P.P. 
Lakshminarayana Upadhayaya, Madras Government Oriental 
Series, Madras 1951. 

Sripatipaddhati (11th century), Eng. translation by P.V.S. Sastri, 
B.A., Bangalore 1937). . 


