ASTRO SUTRAS 


by 
J. N. BHASIN 
(Retired Accounts Officer) , 
(Ex-President Swami Ram Tirtha Mission, Delhi) 


Author of: 


Medical Astrology 
Events & Nativities 
Art of Predictions 


CONTENTS 


Pages 
A. word or two ix 


An Introduction to the Subject Matter 


What does a birth chart signify, Relation of planets 

to signs, Relation of planets to the Nakshatras, The 
influence or "ASPECT" of planets, the exhaltation 
signs of planets, the debilitation signs of planets, 
the mutual friendship neutrality and enemity 
between pla nets. 1-16 
An introduction of Planets 

The traits and characteristics of various planets, 


Main important rules for the interpretation of 
charts. 1748 


Some Fundamental & Impor rant Rules 
Explained 49-56 


The First House or the Ascendant (LAGNA). 


Evolution of Man and the conception of the Horo- 
scope; arrangement of the subject matter in the 
horoscope follows an evolutionary pattern. The 
importance of the signs occupied by the Sun and 
the Moon as &sténdatite Determination of the 


(iii) 


Pages 


the important features of the various horoscopes 
with various signs in the 5th house. 126-139 


9. The Sixth House. 


All “foreign’”’ things denoted by it, its link with 
being "adopted", is a house of injuries, diseases, 
debts, gives much wealth through the weakness and 
affliction of this house and it's lord, How it repre: 
sents the younger brothers of mother, is a house of 
thieves and theft, enmity, opposition hurdless all 
indicated by it, is a house of injury as also of 
"violence", the important features of various horo- 
scopes with various signs in the 6th house. 140-150 


10. The Seventh House. 


Relates to Marriage, marriage partner, and marri- 
age life, how related to "love marriage", marriage 
when, delay in marriage, seperation in marriage and 
"divorce" features of the wife or the husband 
marriage in a very rich family, many marriages, 
wealth from the wife or from her relatives, the 
house serves as a {‘maraka” house, character of 
the husband, the important features of the various 
horoscopes with various signs in the 7th house. 151-164 


11. The Eighth House. 


The extent of longivity of life decided by it, death 
when and how, is a factor for great affluence 
through the operation of the "vipreet Raja Yoga" 
Foreign travels considered from this house, research 
work the type of speech the partner, i.e. the wife or 
the husband may have, the effects of the situation 


( vi} 


12: 


13. 


14. 


Pages 


of various planets in the 8th house, the important 
features of the various horoscopes with various- 
signs in the 8th house. Determination of longivity, 
Death—when and how, "Vipreet Raja Yoga", 
Foreign travel. 165-174 


The Nineth House. 


Religious life, Divine grace and help, favour from 
the Govt! and it's officials. Raja Yoga and affluence, 
the son and the grandson, fate, unexpected gains, 
long inland travels, sudden death, the important 


features of the various horoscopes with various 
signs in the 9th house. 175-184 


The Tenth House. 


The results of the situation of various planets in the 
10th house, the defect arising out of the lordship of 
the 10th house as a kendra, the benefic results of 
the location of Rahu in thé 10th house, height— 
physical, material etc. related to this house. 
"SAMRAJYA YOGA", Occupation profession etc. 
and the 10th house, SKAHAL” Yoga, the impor- 
tant features of the various horoscopes with diffe- 
rent signs in the 10th house. 185-193 


The Eleventh House. 


Gains i'rom the "In-laws", keen intellect, gains 
position in regard to the elder brother, diseases: 
injuries, air travels etc., the important features of 
various horoscopes with different signs in lth 
house. 194-204 


( vii 


Pages 


15. The Twelfth House. 


Loss of eye sight, the results relating to the situa- 
tion of Venus in the 12th house, great affluence, 
amputation of the feet, expense and wastage of 
various things and traits by the situation of different 
planets in the 12th house, excessive sex irge, 
studious habits, habit of giving unsolicited advice, 
the love affairs of the husband with other women, 
the important results of the various horoscopes with 
different signs in the 12th house. 205-212 


16. Example Horoscopes For Critical Study. 


(a) Brief Comments on the Illustrated horoscopes. 
(b) Some rules for the interpretation of the 
"DASHA" system. 213-240 


( viii ) 


A word or two 


The subject of "natal" astrology has been dealt with 
in this book rather briefly, still in dealing with the various 
aspects of the science, it has been endeavoured, as far as 
possible, not to overlook the "how" and "why" of thi 
things involved. In other words the Scientifié rationale 
behind the various yogas and other kindered subjects has 
been attemted in most cases. In fact the spirit ofa 
logical enquiry is so essential to the art and science of 
Astrology that it has been given the epithet of *HETU” 
shastra or the science of "LOGIC" by the ancient seers 
of this land. We have therefore, tried to present the 
subject in a logical way but in complete consonance with 
the principles of the science as laid down by the standard 
ancient authorities such as MAHARSHI PAR ASH AR— 
the father of Indian Astrology and other savants of this 
divine science. 


It is in persuance of the above spirit of scientific 
enquiry that we have tried to present the basic traits » { 
he various signs, nakshatras, houses and the planets, from 
! common and comprehensive point of view. 


Practically all problems relating to an individual's 
life, from birth to death, have been dealt with in this 


(ix) 


book, and it is, therefore hoped that it would be bossiple 
for the students to obtain necessary guidance, in all matters 
relating to their individual lives, by consulting the houses 
concerned of the particular nativity that they may have 
in mind. 


In dealing with the various subjects, an eye has been 
kept on the modern aspect of the problems of life=aspects 
which were not prevalent, perhaps in old times, at least 
not in the form in which we find them today. We have, 
therefore} dealt with such problems as journies overseas, 
divorce, love affairs, lottery, speculation, family planning 
etc. 


If the students of astrology are fired with a zeat to 
tackle the subject in a logical, scientific and practical 
way, the endeavours of the author will have been amply 
rewarded. 


J.N. Bhasin 
New Bajendra nagar; 
New Delhi-60. 


(x) 


An Introduction To The Subject Matter 


(1) The "horoscope" or the birth chart is the map of 
the position of the planets and the other heavenly bodies, 
in the heavens, at the time of the birth of the individual, 
male, female, animal, institution etc at the place of such a 
birth. Any person thing or idea thatis born in this uni- 
verse, is born along with the qualities, good bad or in- 
differerent, ofthe nature as it existed at that moment of 
time, for nothing can or does exist in "ISOLATION" in 
this world. Each atom ora planet is linked to every 
other atom or planet by known and unknown laws such 
as the law of gravitation etc. 


(2) The "HOROSCOPE" or the birth chart is depic- 
ted by different people in different ways. All that is 
required, however, to be depicted is, as already stated, 
the location of the various planets in the signs involved. 
In northern part of India the horoscope is depicted in the 
shape of 12 squares or triangles, as would be seen from 
the example horoscope of INDIRA GANDHI shown be- 
low. 

(3) It is an established convention in northern India 
to show the ascendant or the Lagna in the middle square 
in between the two triangles on the top. This is done by 
putting thé figure representing the ascendant in the said 


I 


square. INDIRA GANDHI was born when the sign 
Cancer was rising on the eastern horizon of her place of 
birth viz ALLAHABAD, united provinces, India. We 
will, therefore, depict her Lapna or ascendant by putting 
the figure 4 standing for the sign Cancer in the top middle 
square. 

The numbers representing the different signs of the 
zodiac are See horoscope No. 1 (given below for facility of 
reference.} 


rd 
RS 


IWAN 
RA 


Sign Digit that represents Planet that is 
the sgn Lord of the sign 

Aries 1 MARS 

TAURUS 2 VENUS 

GEMINI 3 MERCURY 

Cancer 4 *Moon 

Leo 5 Sun. 

Virgo 6 Mercury. 

Libra 7 Venus 

Scorpio 8 Mars. 

Sagittarius. 9 Jupitor. 

Capricorn. 10 Saturn. 

Acquarius. 11 Saturn. 


Pisces. 2 Jupitor 


(5) The ancient pioneers of astrology had gained a 
THOROUGH knowledge of the science of astrology 
through constant observation and experiments. In the 
very nature of things, the planets should and do represent 
every trait, quality, character, thing, idea etc to whatever 
field it may relate, to physical universe and its multifarious 
things or to the emotions of man or to his intellectual 
ramifications, for itis through this type of representative 
traits that we are able to translate the mute symbols of 
Astrology into the concrete realities of this materia! uni- 
verse. For example Father, Eyes, Bones, Soul, Self, King- 
dom, Ruling powers, heart etc is represented by the planet 
Sun and itis by a study, inter alia, of the Sun in the 
horoscope that we are able to ascertain facts about the 
above things. Similarly, Mother, Blood, Mind, Emotions, 
Fast speed, Lungs etc are all represented by the planet 
Moon, through the study of which in the birth chart one 
is able to ascertain every thing relating to mother etc. 
The younger brother, courage, the defence department of 
a country including it's army navy and air force, theft, 
violence, cruelty, Sin, Injury, Muscles, flejh etc. are all 
represented by the planet Mars. A study of Mars in the 
horoscope reveals to us the possibility or otherwise of hav- 
ing younger brothers etc. Similarly Skin, the respiratory 
canal, intellect, thinking power, intestines, education, 
writing etc is represented by the planet Mercury, whose 
study in the birth chart reveals to us the secrets about the 
likely skin trouble in the body and other things enumera- 
ted above. Again the planetJupitor stands for Wisdom, 
belly, Feet, Governmental favour, wealth, Sons, elder 
brothers, husband etc. It is through a study ofthe planet 
Jupitor that we are enabled to predict every thing relating 
to wisdom, elder brothers, husband etc. Wife, Adultry, 
Face, urinary tract, Semen, Luxury and luxurious enjoy- 


ments, fine arts such as singing, dancing, music, painting, 
refined texture and refined tastes etc are all represented 
by the planet Venus, whose study in the horoscope enables 
us to know everything about the wife etc. Diseases, toil, 
Nerves, Long period of time, long stature, dearth, poverty, 
legs etc are represented by the planet Saturn, whose situa- 
tion in the horoscope if studied properly will enable us to 
know the likely nervous troubles etc in advance. The 
traits of Rahu are akin generally to the planet Saturn and 
those of Ketu are akin generally to those of Mars. I: must, 
however, be added that Rahu and Ketu are "SHADOWY" 
planets and as such do not have, in most cases an indepen- 
dent existance. These planets give the good or bad effects 
according to the good or bad planets under whose influe- 
nce these may be found to lie through association or 
aspect. 


(6) In para 4 have been mentioned the various signs 
and their"LORDS." The lord ship of the planets needs 
being thoroughly grasped. When we say, for example, that 
Mars is the lord of Aries-the sign no: 1, what we mean is 
that the sign Aries has the same traits and characteristir 5 
as the planet Mars. It will thus be seen that we have 
thereby, endeavoured to allot traits to the signs of the 
zodiac through the means already at our disposal viz thro- 
ugh the traits of the planets. We thus have more than 
one factor in the birth chart for the purposes of the study 
of one and the same trait Or quality. Signs as we know- 
are 12 in number and constitute the whole zodiac of 360 
degrees. It is thus clear that each sign will consist of 
1/12th of 360 degrees ie 30 degrees. 


Just as each of the signs represents a fixed distance, in 
the same way each of the "NAKSHATRA" also represents 


a fixed distance. The whole zodiac being divided equally 
into 27 nakshatras, we know that each of the naksharas 
will stand for a distance of 13 degrees and 20 minutes, for 
this measure multiplied by 27 gives us 360 degrees. The 
remarks regarding the representative character of the 
nakshatras apply here also. That is to say that the Nak- 
shatras too stand for various traits and characteristics of 
life. Astrology studies these traits through the planets 
that are the lords of the nakshatras concerned. In other 
words the trait of a nakshatra will be exactly the same as 
the traits of the planet that is lord of that nakshatra. Be- 
low is given a table showing the various nakshatras with 
their extent and position in the zodiac and the planet that 
represents them. 


Nakshatra From To Planet that 
is the Lord 
of the 
Nakshatra 
Ashvini 0-0-0 0-13-20 Ketu. 
Bharni. 0-13-20 0-26-40 Venus. 
Kritika. 0-26-40 1-10-0 Sun. 
Rohini. 1-10-0 1-23-20 Moon 
Mrigshar 1-23-20 2-6-40 Mars 
Ardra. 2-6-40 2-20-0 Rahu. 
Punarvasu 2-20-0 3-3-20 Jupitor. 
Pushya. 3-3-20 3-16-40 Saturn 
‘Ashlesha 3-16-40 40-0 Mercury. 
Magha. 40-0 4-13-20 Ketu. 
P. Phalguni. 4-13-20 3-26-40 Venus. 
U. Pha Lguni 426-40 5-10-0 Sun 
Hast 5-10-0 5-23-20 Moon. 


Chitra: 5-23-20 6-6-40 Mars. 


Swati. 6-6-40 6-20-0 Rahu. 


Vishakha. 6-20-0 7-3-20 Jupitor. 
Anuradha. 7-3-20 7-16-40 Saturn. 
Jyeshta. 7-16-40 8-0-0 Mercury 
Moola! 8-0-0 B-13-20 Ketu. 

P. Khada 8-13-20 8-26-40 Venus. 
U. Khada 8-26-40 9-10-0 Sun. 
Shravan 9-10-0 9-23-20 Moon 
Dhanishta. 9-23-20 10-6-40 Mars. 
Shatbhisha. 10-6-40 10-20-0 Rahu. 

P. Bhadrapad —10-20-0 11=3-20 Jupitor. 
U. Bhadrapad. 11=3-20 11-16-40 Saturn 
Revati! 11-16-40 0-0-0 Mercury. 


(8) Para 2 contains reference to the horoscope of 
Shrimati INDIRA GANDHI: Let us study the same from 
the point of view of the lordship of the planets over the 
signs and that of the situations of those planets. It would 
be seen that in the top middle square ie the lagna there is 
the figure 4. This indicates that at the time Ofher birth 
sign no: 4 ie cancer was rising in the eastern horizon. In 
other words her lagna or the ascendant is "CANCER" 
The lord of sign no: 4 ie cancer is Moon (See para 4 ante). 
This Moon is located in the seventh house in the sign 
Capricom. The method of counting the bhava or the 
house is to count it from the lagna or the ascendant to the 
the house concerned, taking both the houses in the recko- 
ning. The second house contains the sign Leo. Mars is 
situated in that sign. The lord ofthe second house is the 
lord of the sign contained in that house ie Sun, who is 
situated in the 5th house along with the planet Mercury. 
The lord of the third house is the lord of the sgn Virgo 
contained in itie Mercury, who is situated in the 5th 
house along with the planet Sun. The lord of the 3rd 


house is Venus because there is the sign Libra in that 
house. Venus is located in the bth house aiong with Rahu. 
The 5th house contains the sign Scorpio and therefore the 
lord of this house is Mars, who Is located im the sign Leo 
in the Betond house The 6th house contains the sign 
Sagittarius. Hence the Iordo f this house ts the planet 
Jupitor, who is situated in the L1th house in the Sgt 
Taurus. The lord of the 7th house is Saturn as the sign 
Capricorn is located in that house. The lord of the 7th 
house ie Saturn, 1s located in the first house in the sign 
Cancer. There is the sign Acquarius in the 8th house and 
hence the lord of the 8th house will be the lord of the sign 
Acquarius ie Saturn who, as we have already seen, is situa- 
ted in the Lagna in the sign Cancer. The lord of the 9th 
house is Jupitor as there is the sign Pisces in the 9th house. 
The lord of the 9th house ie Jupitor is located in the 
11th house in the sign Taurus. The lord of the 10tH house 
is Mars as the 10th house contains the sign aries. Mars 
is situated in the second house in the sign Leo. The lord 
of the CTH house is Venus as the L1th house contains the 
sign of Venus viz Taurus. Venus lord of the ITth house 
is situated in the 6th house along with Rahu in the sign 
Sagittarius. The lord ofthe 12th house is Mercury as 
this house contains the sign of Mercury ie the sign Gemini. 
Mercury is situated in the 5th house along with the Sun in 


the sign Scorpio. 


(9) The Aspects of Planets. Every planet aspects the 
house, sign or the planet placed 7th from it. When we 
say that a particular PYamet aspects a stated house etc we 
mean to say that it throws it's good or bad influence on 
that house etc. That the aspect of every planet is on the 
place 7th from it is a general rule. Certain planets, however, 
not only have this 7th aspect but also have a distinct 


aspect or influence of their own-Mars, for example, not 
only aspects or influences the 7th place from it'self but 
also aspects or influences the sign planet or the house 
that may happen to be located fourth from it. It also 
aspects or influences the sign house or the planet that may 
happen to lie in the 8th place from it. Similarly jupitor 
in addition to it's normal 7th aspect also aspects or influe- 
neces the place that may happen to lie 5th or 9th from it. In 
the same manner the planet Saturn in addition to having 
the normal 7th aspect has an additional aspect whereby 
it aspects or influences the place 3rd or 10th from it, It 
should be particularly noted that the shadowy planets 
Rahu and Ketu have both a normal and special aspect. 
By their special aspect these shadowy planets aspect or 
influence the house etc that may happen to lie Sth or 9th 
from them. In other words their aspects are like those 
of the planet Jupitor. (Maharshi Parashar says in this 
connection—‘Sut Madan Navantye Purna Drishti Ta- 
masya Yugal Dasham Gehe Chardha Drishtim Vadanti"). 


(10) The nature of the influence cr aspect of a planet 
is good or bad according to whether the planet is good 
or bad. The planets Saturn, Mars, Sun and Rahu are 
considered in astrology as "Natural Malefics. The aspect 
ie the influence of these planets on any sign, house or the 
planet that they may be aspecting, harms the prospects 
denoted by the aspected sign, house or the planet. Simi- 
larly astrology holds, Jupitor and Venus as "NATURAL 
BENEFICS" The aspect of these two planets on any 
house etc boosts and enhances the prospects tor which 
that house etc stands. Moon acts in both ways ie as a 
malefic and a benefic planet. The nearer it is to the Sun 
the less strong it becomes, until about 72 degree from the 
Sun it become weak. It's weakness continues to increase 


8 


until it has no power left when it 1s with the Sun 
ie when it has the same longitude as the Sun. A sit 
leaves the Sun and moves forward in the bright half of it's 
month it gathers strength, although it remains weak till 
about 72 degrees ahead of the Sun. It is considered strong 
thereafter until itis in maximum strength when at a 
maximum distance from the Sun ie when 180 degrees 
away from it. It's strength then starts dwindling until it 
reaches about 72 degrees from the Sun, whereafter it again 
starts becomting weak. The planet Mercury when situated 
with any planet does not act independently. It assumes 
the role of the planet with which it is situated. That is 
to say it acts as a benefic when located with a_ benefic 
planet and acts as a malefic when located with a malefic 
planet. The aspect of Rahu and Ketu is always Malefic 
in nature. It is, however, not so severe when these sha- 
dowy planets are located with benefic planets. 


(11) We will have a little exercise in seeing the 
"ASPECTS" of different planets. We will do so again 
from the horoscope of Shrimati INDIRA GANDHI. The 
planet Sun is situated in her horoscope in the 5th house 
in the sign Scorpio. From that position the Sun aspects 
or influences the [1th house, ie the house 7th from the 
5th, as also the sign Taurus and the planet Jupitor placed 
therein. Since the Sun is a malefic planet, it's aspect or 
influence on both the {lth house and the planet Jupitor 
denies elder brother, for the reason that this malefic in- 
fluence of sun falls on two representative factors of 
"ELDER" brorhers. She, therefore, lost an elder brother 
at a very early age. Moon is situated in the seventh house 
from where it aspects the 7th place from itie the ascen- 
dant and the sign cancer and the planet Saturn placed 
therein. The most important law in astrology is that any 


house that is aspected by its lord gets boosted up. Here 
the first house is aspected by it's lord Moon and as_ such 
is boosted up with the result that all traits for which the 
lagna or the ascendant stands, such as {{Longivityy 
"Fame" "Power" "Health" and "Wealth" get boosted 
up. Mars is located in the second house. From this 
position Mars aspects or influences, with it's special 4th 
aspect the 5th house and the sign Scorpio and Sun and 
Mercury located therein. Here also the rule enunciated 
previously applies} in as much as Mars aspects it's own 
sign and as such boosts it along with the 5th house in 
which it is situated, with the result that the traits ofthe 
house such as intellect and the advisory capaceiy are en- 
hanced. The same Mars is aspecting the 8th house of the 
horoscope With it's 7th aspect. It also aspects the Oth house 
with it's 8th aspect. Mercury has only the 7th full aspect 
It, therefore, aspects the 11th house and also, of course the 
planet Jupitor situated therein. Coming to Jupitor we 
would see that it is situated in the 1Jthhouse, from which 
position itis directly aspecting with it's 7th aspect the 
house no: 5 and the sign Scorpio and the planets Sun and 
Mercury situated therein. Similarly the planet Jupitor 
aspects, by it's special 5th aspect, the third house and the 
sign Virgo contained therein. Jupitor also aspects by it's 
special aspect (9) the 7th house, the sign Capricorn and 
the planet Moon placed therein. Venus bv it's location 
in the 6th house aspects by it's 7th aspect the 12th house 
and the sign Gemini placed therein. Rahu is located in 
the 6th house. From there it throws it's 7th aspect on 
the 12th house and the sign no: 3. Rahu also aspects by 
it's 5th aspect the 10th house and the sign Aries placed 
therein. Similarly Rahu also aspects by it's 9th special 
aspect the second house, and the sign cancer and the planet 
Mars placed therein. Last of all, Ketu is situated in the 


10 


12th house. Therefrom Ketu throws it's influence direct- 
ly on the 6th house. It also throws special aspect (Sth) 
on the 4th house and the sign Libra contained therein. It 
also throws it's 9th aspect on the 8th house and, of course 
on the sign Acquarius contained therein. Aspects of planets 
are of the utmost importance in Astrology in as much as 
aspects have the power to altogether reverse the results. 


(12) The "EXHALTATION AND THE DEBILI- 
TATION SIGNS" OF PLANETS. 


Sun, Moon, Mars Mercury, Jupitor, Venus, Saturn are 
exhalted in Sign numbers 152} 10, 6, 4, 12, 7 respectively 
and are debilitated in sign numbers seventh therefrom ie 
in 7, 8, 4, 12, 10, 6&1 respectively. 


A planet that happens to be located in it’s "EXHAL- 
TATION" sign not only becomes strong but also dignified. 
It, also, of course becomes very beneficial in results, when 
it is lord of a good house in the horoscope. The sign 7th 
from the exhaltation sign becomes the sign of "DEBILI- 
TATION." A planet that happens to be in it's sign of 
"DEBILITATION" not only become weak but also be- 
haver in an unbecoming and ostentatious manner. The 
"EXHALTATION" and the "DEBILITATION" signs 
of various planets are given below: in a tabular form also 


Planet The sign in which it is The sign 
exhalted in which 
it is 
debilitated. 
Sun. 1 7 
Moon. 2 8 


11 


Mars. 10 4 


Mercury 6 12 
Jupitor. 4 10 
Venus. 12 6 
Saturn 7 1 


(13) What the houses of a chart signify. 


In the previous paras we had some knowledge about 
the signs, the planets and the Nakshatras. We will know 
acquaint ourselves with the houses of a horoscope. We 
have seen previously how each of the fundamental con- 
stituents stands for or represents one or the other of the 
things of the world. The same is the case with the houses 
of the horoscope. The houses in the horoscope are ima- 
ginary divisions of the earth. These are, like the signs 
12 innumber. The first house is the house in which the 
ascendant ie the sign rising in the eastern horizon of the 
place of birth, at the time of birth falls. Being the very 
first house it stands for everything relating to the things 


pertaining to birth..... the first event in a man's life. It, 
therefore, represents such things as caste in which a person 
is born (Brahmin etc) the colour of his body, the stature 
of his body, the place of his birth, the body as a whole, 
the particular limb of the body represented by the sign in 
the Lagna. It also represents, inter alia, wealth, Honour, 
respect, longivity ie how long one is destined to live on 
this earth, the foremost part of the body ie the head. It 
also stands for the "SELF" of man and is very significant 
in denoting his deliberate action. The means of livlihood 
of a man are also determined from this house. 


(b) The second house of the horoscop2 stands for 
means of sustenance ie all sorts of food and eatables, the 


12 


mouth and the face, accummulated wealth, extent of the 
academic career, the family, death, prince or the son ofa 
high dignatory, the elder brother to the mother, ruling 
powers, the age of boyhood, speech, eye etc. Every thing 
about these things should be studied from the second 
houses. 


(c) The third house represents eais; shoulders, the 
respiratory canal, younger brothers, courage, the defence 
department of a govt:, the deliberate self of man, short 
journeys, arms, the age of youth, friends, air travel, lon- 
givity, courage etc. These things should, therefore, be 
studied from the third house. 


(d) The fcuth house stands for:—mother; mind, pro- 
perty, conveyances of different types, lands, farming, joys 
and sorrows, comforts, progress, lungs, chest, blood, the 
masses in general ie the public, nature of a man, residence 
water and watery tilings etc: All these things should be 
studud fromthe 4th house. 


(ec) The fifth house stands for!—Son}the power of 
advising people, the lady love, amusement and places of 
amusement such as the cinema, carnival etc. the elder 
brother to the wife, belly, wife of the elder brother, hus- 
band of the elder sister, lottery, luck, pregnancies, speech 
intellect etc. These things should be studied from the 
5th house of a horoscope. 


(f) The 6th house stands for:—Enemies, diseases, 
hurdles. injuries, thett{ vices, foreign elements of every 
description, the younger brother to the mother, intestines, 
violence etc. These things should be studied trom the 6th 
house of a horoscope. 


13 


(g) The 7th house stands for:—Semen; wife, marriage, 
the mode of the use of the semen, impotency, divorce, 
private parts of the body, trade and business, partnership, 
sex, death, ruling powers etc: These things should be 
studied in any horoscope from the 7th house. 


(h) The 8th house stands for:=Death} dishonour, 
adventures, foreign travels, seas, scrotem, destruction, 
logivity, the husband to the elder sister of the mother, the 
wife to the elder brother of the mother, etc These things 
should be studied and examined from he 8th house. 


(i) The 9th house stands for==Luck in general, divine 
help, sudden events of good or bad, nature: religion, 
penance, inclination, higher knowledge, father, the younger 
brother of wife, hips, wife of the younger brother, husband 
of the younger sister, favour from the govt, high pfficials} 
long inland journeys etc. All these should be studied from 
the 9th house. The 10th house stands for:=Govt! king- 
dom, ruling powers, virtuous and bad deeds, height, sky, 
position, honour, knees, mother to wife, longivity of the 
younger brothers or sisters, etc. These things should be 
examined and studied from the 10th house. 


(j) The {Ith house stands for:==elde?# brother, elder 
sister, wife of son, husband of daughter, the longivity of 
mother, arms, the deliberate self, injury, disease, the lower 
portion of the leg, gains of all types, foreignness, younger 
brother to father, etc. All these things should be studied 
from the LIth house. 


over use, loss seperation, luxurious enjoyments, enjoyments 
of the bed, sleep, husband of the younger sister to the 
mother, wife of the younger brother to mother, the defence 


14 


department of a govt:, a place of worship such as a temple 
or a mosque, liberation) the left eye, watery substances, 
imprisonment etc. These things should be divined from the 
12t8 house. 


Rule for Friendship ete of Planets. 


EVERY PLANET TREATS ANOTHER PLANET AS 
TIs friend, if the signs of the latter planet fall in the Sth, 
12th 2nd, 4th, 8th, 9th from the {Mool trikona" sign of 
the former. The lord of the exalted sign is 4186 treated by it 
asa friend. The Mool trikona signs of the various planets 
are §,2,1,0,9,7;11 respectively for Sun, Moon, Mars, Mer 
ecury, Juptor, Venus, and Saturn. 

EXAMPLE Suppose we desire to know how the 
planet Mars treats the planet Mercury. Now the "Mool 
trikona" sign of Mars 1s Aries. The planet Mercury is lord 
of two signs, viz Gemini and Virgo. Gemini falls in the 
3rd place from aries while virgo falls in the 6th. Neither 
the 3rd nor the 6th position has been stipulated in the 
rule and as such Mars will be considered as treating 
Mercury as it's enemy. Again} suppose we desire to ascer- 
tain how Mars treats Jupitor. Jupitor is the lord of sign no; 
9 and 12. Both the 9th and the 12th positions have been 
mentioned in the rule and as such we will say that Mars 
treates Jupitor as it's friend. Lastly let us determine how 
Mars treats the planet Venus. Venus is lord of the signs 
2 and 7. Position No; 2 has been mentioned in the rule 
but the position no 7 has not been mentioned therein. 
Hence we will have to say that the planet Mars treats the 
planet Venus as "Neutral." 


For facility of reference we are giving below a table 
showing the mutual friendship, enmity and neutrality of 
the planets. This table will prove of use in determining 
the strength and the conseqential behaviour of planets. 


15 


sIUqN 


wes ondngt pesman 
SIvJY |uIMEg | SaEIY | SNUDA | SnUdA SU Stepisuory 
toudnf jrondnf fouwdnf houdnf | nyey boudnf | umes | uanyeg [Aanssayy We WOU AL 


uooyy | LOO 


uooY - | snus AWOUG 
sie] SRY | sseyy | uooyy | snus nyey] moy | nyey | se siopisuo; 
ung uns uns ung] “aX | woo] “ayy |] Nye |) winies Ve HOUMA 
UNE nyey | nyey) vwoopy ung ung UoOjY pus 
BW} wy] eWiunieg |) ssepy | snusa poudnf | -zapy sippy | SB stapisuog 
snus, | srugA | snuas’ “1a ung] myey] uoopy ung roudaf i Woy Ay 
ny nypy | usnjog | snus4 aout” “aay sap]yr | woopy ung Pudi 


‘vq diqspuarry Arvjauepg yo ayqey 


An Introduction to Planets 


In this chapter we propose to deal briefly with some 
of the most prominent traits and characteristics of the 
planets and how these traits and characteristics can be 
made use of in the interpretation of a birth chart. 


Sun. That the Sun gives us heat is the experience of 
every one of us including the blind, the deaf and the 
dumb. This experience is, perhaps directly responsible 
for our saying in Astrology that the Sun stands for and 
exerts an influence of "Heat". Mars, and ketu are also 
planets of "Heat". When, therefore, we find in a birth 
chart Mars, Sun and Ketu throwing their combined in- 
fluence on say the first house we say that the body of the 
person concerned is likely to be exposed to the dangers of 
"Fire" and that he is likely to take up an avocation that 
involves the constant use of "FIRE" in some shape or 
other, such as is involved in avocations like electricity 
department, the radio, the furnace, the boiler, the artillery 
and the like. 


(2) The Sun gives us light. This is another very 
common experience. Light, in other words is very intima- 
tely connected with the Sun. "YAT PINDE TAT 
BRAHMANDE” or "AS ABOVE SO BELOW" is the 


17 


key rule for interpretation. Accordingly in_ the 
human body the part, or the limb that is most 
intimately connected with "LIGHT" will be the 
limb represented by the sun in the human body. Eye 
being such a part, in the birth chart the eye will be 
represented by the planet Sun. [If, therefore, when you 
find the Sun placed in the houses of the eye that is the 
house no: two or the hose no: 12, in an inimical sign, 
and under the influence of malefic planets, Mars, Saturn 
ketu, Rahu, etc., it creates a defect in the human eye and 
when the influence is severe, it may denote even total 
blindness. On the same anology, if the planet Sun 
is situated in the 8th house in an inimical sign and is influ- 
enced badly, by association or aspect, by the malefic 
planets, the father of the native may have eye trouble, 
and in cases where the said influence on the Sun _ so 
situated is very severe, he may even become blind. The 
reason is that the 8th house is the 12th house of the 
"FATHER" in any horoscope and as such represents the 
eye of the father. The affliction of Sun as an eye, there- 
fore, in the house for an eye, would afflict the eye 
concerned. 


(3) The Sun is King among the planets. This is 
quite evident from the simple fact that all planets 
revolve round it, like the laymen revolving round the 
V.I. Ps. Applying the "KEY" "AS ABOVE SO 
BELOW", we can say that amongst the people on earth 
too the king, or the government, or the head of a state, 
or the head of a family, or the head of an institution 
etc. are all represented by the sun. In the horoscope if 
the planet Sun happens to be the Lord of the 9th or the 
10th house and is strong by house position, aspect etc. it 
indicates that the person concerned is most likely to rise 


18 


to a position of authority, such as that of a king or a ruler 
or a governor, or a president or some high official of the 
government concerned. 

(4) The Sun is very huge in it shape too. Because of 
it's importance and hugeness, it makes the house over 
which it has lordship important. For example, if the 
Sun is lord of the second house in a horoscope, and is 
strong it gives much wealth, in comparison with a case 
where any other planet is lord of the same house and is 
also strong. If the sun is lord of the third house and is 
strong, it denotes the existance of highly placed friends 
..for which the third house stands. If it is strong in the 
horoscope as lord of the 4th house, it denotes the acquisi- 
tion of a house that is quite wide in areaand admits 
plenty of light into it. It also indicates, inter alia, that 
the chest of the parson to whom the horoscope belongs is, 
wide. Ifit is strong as the lord of the 5th house it indi- 
cates that the status cfthe son of the native will be quite 
high in life and that he will be brave. Ifit is strong as 
the lord of the 6th house, it indicates the existance of 
mighty enemies that he will have to contend with, and 
that the younger brothers of his mother (Represented by 
the 6th house) will rise to very good position in life. If 
it is strong as the lord of the 7th house in a horoscope it 
denotes that he will marry high and his wife may be a 
queen or one from highly aristocratic family. If Sun is 
lord of the 8th house in a birth chart and 1s also strong it 
ensures good "LONGIVITY" for the native. If it is 
strong as lord of the 9th house in a birth chart, it is indi- 
cative of the high ruling powers that he will 
posses in life. See horoscope No. 2 It also 
indicates that the person concerned will be very 
much spiritually inclined. If it is strong as the lord of the 
10th house it indicates that the native will undertake big 


19 


buseness in life and will also do considera ble charitable 
and good work. Ifit is the lord of the 11th house and is 
also strong it gives high class gains and even a kingdom, 
depending of course onit’s strength. Ifit is strong as the 
lord of the 12th house, it will seperate the native from the 
traits ofthe house which it may occupy. For example, 
if such a Sun influences both the 7th house and it's lord it 
indicates separation of the native from his wife, or the 
husband, as the case may be. Similarly if such a Sun 
influences both the lord ofthe 5th house and Jupiter it 
indicates the possibility of his being separated from his 
Son. If it is lord of the first house and is strong, it of 
course raises the general status of the native and may 
indicate his becoming a president or a king etc. 


Fig. No. 2 


(5) The second house, as already stated previously, 
represents the period of boyhood and education. If sun 
represents this house by becoming it's lord, and is also 
strong, it indicates the acquisition of education of a high 
class, provided, of course if the planet Mercury—the 
Significator of “EDUCATION” also is strong. 


20 


(6) The Sun through its rays nourishes all life ¥&8' 
tables, animals and men. Life is simply not possible with- 
out the Sun. Sun is, therefore, our protector and 
nourisher] In the world, therefore, he is likened to 
"FATHER" for on earth a father has the same functions 
as the Sun has inthe heavens. That is why Astrology 
enjoins that we should always study the position ot Sun 
before arriving at any judgement in regard to the father 
ofa native in his horoscope. For a complete judgement 
in this regard, however, we have also to take into con- 
sideration the position strength etc. ofthe 9th house and 
it's lord. 

(7) The Sun is the "PROP" and the basic support of 
every thing in this world. Anologteally the bones in the 
human system serve as the "PROP" of the body. Astro- 
logy has, therefore, represented the bones in the human 
body by the planet Sun. If, therefore, Sun as the lord of 
the first house in any birth chart is very weak, it would 
mean that the element prevelant in the body and repre- 
sented by the sun would suffer in life. Bones are such 
an element, that serve as the prop of the body as a whole 
(Ascendant). Hence in such a case the man is likely to 
have his bones broken or get some other disease of the 
bones. See horoscope No. 3 


Fig. No. 3 


LONIUEN, 


(8) The Sun is the lord of the sign no. 5. In the 
conception of the "KALA PURUSHA" the Sth limb is 
the belly. Hence ifin a horoscope, the 5th house, its 
lord, the sign no. 5 and its lord viz the Sun are all afflic- 
ted by malefic influence, ofa lasting nature such as_ that 
of Rahu or Saturn, one suffers for long from pains in the 
belly, such as colic pains or ulcer in the stomach. 


The Sun is verily the soul of the whole universe. The 
holy Vedas declare so. (SURYA ATMA JAGTAH 
TASTHUSHASHCHA) Hence whenever we have to pon- 
der over a problem or rather a thing that is basic, funda- 
mental, vital, innermost, subtle etc. we have to take he 
Sun as it's representative and consider the Sun's positions to 
arrive at a right conclusion. For example we know that 
in the alphabet of all the languages, all the world over.' 
and in the Sanskrit language in particular, the vowels are 
considered the soul of the cosonants, for the reason that 
the cosonants can nov be pronounced without the help of 
the vowels In alloting a planet to the vowels we are 
easily guided by this fact. We, therefore, at once say 
that the vowels are represented by the Sun—the soul of 
the universe, and therefore of the Alphabet. 


Moon. What a cooling effect the Moon has on the 
eyes and on the body! According, therefore, to the 
science of "SYMBOLOGY" Moon has been held in 
astrology as a watery planet, for water in its normal con- 
dition is cold. When, therefore, Moon, in combination 
with other "Watery" planets such as Venus and the lords 
of the 4th, 8th and the 12th house throws it's influence 
on the Lagna and it's lord, it induces the native to engage 
himself in such "Watery" vocations as the Navy, soda 
water factory, canal department, water supply depart- 
ment etc. 


22 


(2) This planet is friend to all and enemy to none. 
If Moon is strong in the horoscope and is intimately 
linked to the lord of the 4th house and the house no. 4, 
it shows that the native is popular with the masses and 
that he has resort to politics and other public activities. 


(3) As this planet is enemy to none and is treated as 
queen ie next in status to the king, it is a mother too. We 
should, therefore, always consider the longivity etc. of the 
mother and other matters relating to the mother by a 
study of this important planet, in company with the other 
factors of the hor scope that also stand for the mother, 
i.e. the 4th house and its lord. 


(4) The holy Vedas have declared in regard to Moon 
that "CHANDRAMAH MANSO JATAH" that is to say 
that Moon was born out of the emotional part of the 
“VIRAT PURUSHA". In examining, therefore, the 
nature of the emotions of a man through his horoscope, 
we should not only study and examine the 4th house and 
it's lord, but should also thoroughly examine MOON for 
this purpose. For example, you will always notice that 
people in whose horoscope, the 4th house and its lord 
along with the Moon is influenced (by association or 
aspect) by saturn—the morose planet, they are meloncoly, 
sad, ond dispassionate people. Such a yoga always 
exists in the birth charts of real sanyasis. 


(5) If Moon herself becomes the lord of the 4th house, 
it is evident that she would represent the emotional con- 
tent of aman par excellence. I such a Moon is situated 
in any of the bad (TRIK) houses and Rahu throws it's 
influence on both the 4th house as well as the lord there- 
of i.e. the Moon, the native is likely to suffer from some 


23 


phobia, as Moon is very much “Afraid” ofthis dark 
shadowy planet. Such a person may suffer from such 
diseases as epelepsy, hysteria, swoons etc. 


(6) In the “KALA PURUSHA" (Time personified, 
with it's limbs denoted by the houses and the signs) the 
planet Moon is the lord of the 4th part. It represents 
the lungs. When, therefore, Moon is herself the lord of 
the 4th house and is under the malefic influence of Mars 
Saturn etc. and the 4th house too is under similar malefic 
influence, it hints at the existance in the body of the 
native of such troubles as T.B. of the lungs, pleursy, 
pneumonia etc. 


(7) The planet Moon is "Liquid" in nature as already 
stated. It is the fastest moving planet. It also gives life 
and nourishment. The blood in the human body is 
almost an exact parralel in as much as blood too is liquid, 
fast moving and life giving. Thus if Moon in any horo- 
scope is the lord of the lagna or the lord cf the 4th house 
and is badly situated, and under purely malefic influence, it 
denotes that the native is most likely to suffer frem the 
diseases of the blood, such as blood pressure, anaemia etc. 


(8) Like the Sun, Moon, too is a light, though a lesser 
one. On the basis of the "SYMBOLOGY" already 
stated this planet too represents an eye—here the left eye, 
the right one being represented by the Sun. 


(9) The planet Moon is so important that it serves as 
an ascendent by itself. The ascendant, as already stated, 
represents the very start of life ie the infant stage. Moon 
thus stands for the infant stage of life in all horoscopes. 
Horoscopes where Moon is extremely weak and _ afflicted, 


24 


it denotes serious trouble to the native in his infancy. 
Thus if Moon as the lord of lagna in any horoscope or 
together with the lord of the lagna in any horoscope is 
weak and afflicted, it denotes that the native is not desti- 
ned to live long. 


(10) Since Moon represents the emotions and desires 
of man, it locates the preferences and proclivities of a man 
in the house in which Moon is located, particularly when 
Moon is the lord of the 4th hosue. For example, if Moon 
is located in the sign virgo in the 6th house, it indicates 
that the native is very fond of putting in his work labour 
or that he is fond of sports or in case she is there with 
Rahu one is fond of foreign elements such as foreign 
communities, and castes other than thése of his com- 
munity. 


(11) The letters "YA", "RA", "LA", "VA", "SHA", 
"SA", and "HA" are all pronounced frem a _ place below 
the neck. This is a place that is comparatively innermost 
except the one for the vowels=represented by the Sun. 
The mind being next to the soul, these letters are very 
apprcpriately represented by the Moon which is next to 
the Sun, in importance. 


Mars. If sun is of orange colour, and Moon of white, 
the colour of Mars is Red. The Veda says "AJAM 
EKAM LOHIT SHUKLA KRISHNAM" and_ thereby 
links the colour "red" to the "RAJAS" or active tenden- 
cies ofmen. This planet is thus full of push and activity' 
since activity is the prime quality of the "RAJAS" vide 
Yoga Sutras which aver that "PRAKASH KRIYA STHI- 
TI SHEELAM BHUT INDRIYA ATMAKAM BHOGA 
APVARGARTHAM DRISHYAM" that is to say that 


25 


this universe has been created by the Lord with a view to 
enable the Jeevas not only to have the experiences of 
their good and bad Karmas of their past lives, but also to 
work out their salvation through "nature" which is com- 
posed of inertia, activity and light or the "GUNAS", 
Satva, Rajas and Tamas} respectively. When the planet 
Mars, therefore} is very strong particularly as the lord of 
the lagna, it indicates that the native is zealous, pushing 
brave and active. 


(2) Being red and of the nature of SRAJAS,\ the 
planet Mars is a very powerful planet. (hé part of the 
body mostly red in colour and concerned with the exer- 
cise of power is the flesh. Hence in the body flesh and 
muscles are represented by the planet Mars! If the planet 
Mars situated in any ofthe bad house (TRIK’’)} is 
weak and afflicted, without the aspect of any Benefic 
planet it denotes that the native has some serious defect 
in his muscular built up, and he may suffer from loss of 
flesh of the body. 


(3) The planet Mars is the "KARKA" or the signi- 
ficator of the younger brothers. Ifit happens to occupy 
an inimical sign in the third house, and the third house as 
well as it's lord are also weak and afflicted, it denotes that 
the native is likely to be denied younger brothers. 


(4) Whenever the aspect of Mars falls on two planets 
it forebodes some evil or trouble. For example, if Mercury 
and Venus are located together in any place} and the 
ascendant is Taurus, and the planet Mars aspects both 
Mercury and Venus, this yoga indicates that the native 
will lose his wife early in life. The reason for the early 
demise of the wife lies in the fact that Mercury becomes 


26 


the lord of the second house, which is the 8th house from 
the seventh and represents the life of the wife, Mercury 
under affliction, we know gives comparatively earlier 
results. It's affliction along with the affliction of the Karka 
or the significator of "WIFE" would naturally indicate an 
early death of the wife. 


(5) When Mars is Lord of the Ist house and is strong 
it indicates long life for the native for the reason that in 
such a case Mars becomes the lord of the Estas well as the 
8th house, both of which represent "LONGIVITY". 
Longivity thereby gets strengthened. Similarly in the case 
of people with Virgo as their ascendant, the longivity is 
much, if Mars is very strong, for in that case mars again 
represents two houses each of which is representative of 
longivity. It will be noticed that the house no: 3 also 
stands for longivity due to the fact that it is a housé 8th 
to the 8th. This is in accordance with the principle of 
“BHAVAT: BHAVAMZ® which lays down that the house 
situated as far away from a house as the latter is from the 
lagna, gives the same effects as the other house. Under 
this principle traits ofthe third house would be studied 
not only from the 3rd house but also from the house third 
to third. Similarly the traits of the 4th house would be 
examined not only from the 4th house but also from the 
house 4th to 4th i.e. 7th house. Similarly the traits of the 
5th house would be examined not only from the 5th house 
but also from the house Sth to Sth i.e. from the 5th house 
and so on. 


(6) Ifin an Acquarius nativity both saturn and Mars 
throw their combined influence on the house and the 
"KARKA" ofa particular relation, then the native will, 
take deliberate steps ot harm that relation For example 


27 


ifthey are aspecting Jupitor lord of the 11th house, the 
native will be inimically disposed towards his elder brother, 
so much so, that he may try even to take the life ofthat 
brother. Similarly if the same two planets are aspecting 
the 5th house and its *‘KARKA”—Jupitor, the native will 
deliberately adopt such measures as not to have the life of 
any of his progeny, that is to say he may choose volunta- 
rily to go in for "Family Planning" If the same two planets 
are aspecting the second houses its lord and it's "KARKA" 
i.e. Jupitor, the Man will deliberately squander away or 
waste away his accummulated wealth. Similarly if the said 
two planets of the Acquarius lagna throw their influence 
on the 7th house and it's "KARK.V and lord, the man 
will be after the life of his wife. The rationale behind 
the effects of the two malefic planets in such cases is that 
each of them represents the "DELIBERATE" self of the 
native, in as much as Saturn being the lord of the lagna 
obviously stands for the self of the native while Mars 
would also stand in the same position being the lord of the 
house of "ARMS" i.e. the 3rd house. 


(7) Marsis devoid of "DIRECTIONAL" strength 
when located in the 4th house. It is, therefore, weak in 
that house. If, therefore, Mars is lord of the first house 
say for an Aries nativity and is situated in the 4th house, 
it will be all the more weak, because it will, is such a case 
be in it's sign of debilitation as well. In such cases Mars 
denotes short life for the native. Particularly in cas~s 
where such a Mars does not receive any good aspect. But 
a dehilitated Mars in the first house is considered to be 
good. The reason for such a Mars being good is that this 
planet is "RAJ YOGA KARKA" for cancer nativities, 
and is favourably situated from both its signs, Aries and 
Scorpio (Fourth from the sign Anes and 9th from its sign 
Scorpio). It therefore, gives good financial results. 


28 


(8) Anexhalted Mars in the 7th house constitutes 
“K AHAL™ Yoga. which is one of the best yogas to have. 
The rationale behind the excellence of this yoga is that 
Mars becomes not only exhalted, but also occupies a kendra 
position, as a Raj Yoga planet for the cancer nativities. It 
also aspects it's own sign in the 10th house, thereby boos- 
ting the traits of that house such as power, authority, high 
class business, honour etc. 


(9) Mars for the people born with gemini as_ the 
ascendant is very cruel. If this Mars happens to throw 
it's influence on the 4th house and Moon, and Mars is 
devoid ofall benefic influence, it makes the native cruel 
and violent, and in representative cases the man may turn 
out to be a merderer. 


(10) The aspect of Mars on the 5th house or it's lord 
is an Indication that the native possesses a keen intellect. 
Since Mars is "SIGNIFICATOR" of logic, it is but rea- 
sonable that it's aspect should help the evolution of logic 
and logical reasoning. 


(11) If, in any nativity, Mars happens to aspect the 
sign Gemini as well as !t’s lord Mercury, then the life of 
the person in whose 8th house the sign gemini is situated 
will have short life, provided of course there is no good 
aspect etc on either the sign Gemini or the planet Mercury 
The bad events resulting from the affliction of the planet 
Mercury and pertaining to the traits of the house in which 
the sign of Mercury is located, take place comparatively 
much earlier than when any other sign in a house is affli- 
cted. This is due to the fact that Mercury has been 
declared asa "BOY" in astrology. This is; of course a 
symbolic statement and signifies that the planet Mercury 


29 


is connected with tilings that come to men in the boyhood 
such as education, speech; play etc. Since "BOYHOOD" 
is a period that comes very near to birth, in fact, next only 
to infancy, the interpretation ofthis symbolic statement 
lies in the fact that the events, in such cases take place 
rather early in their respective fields. For example, if in a 
pisces nativity Mercury and Sun are situated together and 
are aspected by Mars alone, the father of the native is 
short lived, for in such a situation Mercury becomes the 
lord of the 4th house which being 8th from the 9th (father) 
represents the longivity of father, and suffers along with 
the significator of father ie Sun at the hands of it's enemy 
and cruel planet Mars. 


(12) If Mars is lord of the 1st house, and is strong 
then the native possesses, interalia} a spirit of generosity, for 
a strong Mars as a factor denothing character also indi- 
cates this desirable trait. In enumerating the qualitits « F 
Mars the author of "PHAL DEEPIKA" declares 
"RAKTAMBARORAKTA TANUR MAHEEJAH 
CHANDO ATYUDARAH TARUNO ATI MAJJAH" 
meaning that Mars is clothed in red is of red body, is 
aggressive but liberal too, is young and has bones full of 
marrow. 


(13) Mars gets "DIRECTIONAL" strengh when it 
is located in the 10th house. In that position Mars be- 
comes very strong, as it is then located in the chief kendra 
and is also in possession of the directional strength. Such 
a Mars is, therefore, very conducive to the traits of the 
house over which it has lordship. 


(14) Mars represents the "KA" varga ie the letters 
"KA," "KHA," "GA," "GHA," and "NGA". When any 


30 


problem in regard to the names of things and persons is 
under consideration, such as the determination of the 
first letter of the name of a person, and where Mars is the 
planet thot denotes that letter, the letter will be one of the 
five comprising the varga of this planet. 


Mercury) (1) The planet Mercury in Indian astrology 
is often mentioned as "VISHNU", or by such epithets as 
denote that protecting and merciful deity, Mercury taken 
by itself therefore, represents such traits as a charitable 
disposition, and a selfless person that is ever prepared to 
come to the rescue of the oppressed and the needy. In 
tagesy therefore, when Mercury becomes the lord of the 
9th house and has an intimate link with the Ist house, it 
makes the native a selfless person devoted to the public 
cause. (Cfthe nativity of Mahatma Gandhi at No: 4) 


(2) Mercury lord of the 7th house in a nativity is 
responsible as a major factor, to bring about early marriage, 
provided, of course, it is not under the influence (by asso- 
ciation or aspect) of malefic planets and provided also 
that the other factors of marriage viz the 7th house and 
Venus (for male nativities) and the 7th house and Jupitor 


31 


(for female nativities) are not afflicted. (Please see para 
under Mars) 


(3) If Mercury is lord of the 2nd house (This happens 
when Taurus or Leo is the ascendant) and is found to be 
under the "SEPERATIVE" influence or Rahu, Sun or 
Saturn, who are afflicting the second house as weil. the 
native, during his boyhood, either becomes a truent or is 
forced to live for some time in a hostel, gurukul etc, away 
from his parents, for the purpose of the prosecution of his 
studies. This is because both the second house and the 
planet Mercury represent the period of academic career 
relating to boyhood,and sun etc are separative in nature. 


(4) Mercury stands for "SKIN" of the body, more 
particularly in cases when it is (a) the lord of the lagna 
or (b) when it is located in any of the lagnas such as in 
the lagna proper, or in the Surya lagna or in the Chandra 
langa. In any of these positions, if Mercury is afflicted 
by planets that are the significators of "DISEASE", ie 
by Saturn or Rahu, one suffers from skin trouble such as 


LEUCODERMA ct etc. 


(5) Mercury lord of Virgo ascendant if afflicted by 
"SEPERATIVE" influence of Saturn or Rahu, brings 
about "DISPLACEMENT" (ie seperation from the nor- 
mal position) of intestines denoted by the sign no: six in 
the ascendant. Similarly the same planet as lord of 
gemini ascendant, if afflicted by malefic influence, causes 
trouble in the respiratory system, in the form of 
"ASTHMA" etc or brings about trouble to "ARMS" 
denoted by the sign no: 3 in the ascendant. 


(6) Mercury, Saturn and Rahu are of "LONG" 
stature. In cases where a majority of these planets in- 
fluence, through association or aspect, the factors that 
stand for the body as a whole ie the ascendant proper, 


32 


the Moon ascendant and the Sun ascendant, and their 
lords, they impart this trait of theirs to the body and 
make it "LONG" in stature, in comparison, for example, 
to the influence of Mars on these bodily factors, when the 
body becomes "SHORT" in stature. 


(7) If Mercury for people with Taurus ascendants is 
very strong, it makes them orators, for Mercury the 
significator of "SPEECH" himself becomes the lord of the 
houses of speech in such cases and through it's strength 
brings about excellence of speech called by the name of 
"ORATORY". 


(8) Ifthe sign Gemini and Mercury, of people born 
with Gemini ascendant are afflicted by Mars and Ketu, 
they are most likely to have a rather severe injury on the 
head in early life. The reason is that Mars is "SIGNIFI- 
CATOR" of Injuries, violence and cruelty. In such 
cases he has the added qualities of injuries ete by virtue 
of his becoming lord of the two houses of injury viz the 
6th house and the house sixth to sixth ie the ] Ith. If 
along with Mercury, the planets Venus and Moon are 
also under malefic influence of gemini nativities, the 
native is likely to suffer from some mental ailment, such 
as lunacy etc. For detailed information n this regard the 
students may refer to "MEDICAL ASTROLOGY" by 
the author: 


(9) When both the lord of the second house and 
Mercury are strong and are associated with the ascendant, 
one is conversant with the science of Astrology. The ratio- 
nale seems to be that the planet Mercury is the signi- 
ficator of Astrology and the second house too relates to 
that science, being the knowledge about the heavenly 


33 


bodies, the second house being 5th (knowledge) from the 
10th Gkies). See horoscope No. 6 


Fig. No. 6 


(10) Mercury is considered to be eunuch and impo- 
tent in astrology. Saturn is another planet that is also 
considered as "IMPOTENT". When, therefore, both 
Mercury and Saturn happen to throw their inflnence on 
the 7th house, its lord and the planet Venus, and there is 
no other influence on the 7th house etc, the native be- 
comes impotant. 

(11) Mercury gets strong by its location in the first 
house as this planet gets "DIRECTIONAL" strength 
in that house. 

(12) The planet Mercury denotes the five letters of 
the "TA" varga, T being pronounced as in the phrase 
"TIT FOR TAT". 

Jupitor. (1) Of all the planets Jupitor is the most 
beneficial. Whatever house, sign or planet that Jupitor 
aspects gets life and vitality and is boosted in all aspects. 
Jupitor, is significator for "WEALTH", and WEALTH 
has here to be taken in its broad sense as "VALUE" 


34 


This planet, therefore, not only makes the things it as- 
pects as valuable, but is himself enriched as a value, 
when for example, Venus is situated 12th from it, in which 
case Jupitor indicates good riches. See horoscope No. 5 


x 


(2) If Venus is placed in the I2th Rouse fromjupitor 
and Jupitor has good lordship too in the horoscope, the 
native is rich, for Venus boosts the prospects of the pla- 
net or the house from where it is in the 12th. In this 
case it will be in the 12th from Jupitor-the significator 
for wealth and as such would indicate good riches. 

(3) For people born in Gemini and Virgo ascendants, 
Jupitor becomes the lord of two kendras of the horscope. 
This has been considered as a defect in the case of the 
lord ship going to the natural benefics and more so for 
jupitor-a planet that is the most benefic. In such cases 
a weak and afflicted Jupitor placed in the 7th or the 
2nd house (Maraka Houses) of a horoscope brings about 
serious physical trouble to the native. 

(4) If people with Aries as their ascendant have 
Heit Jupitor along with the 12th house afflicted by male- 
fic planets, they are liable to have injury or disease in 


Sh) 


the region of the feet, for in such a case, all the factors 
denoting the feet namely the 12th house and it's lord, 
the 12th sign and it's lord, are afflicted. 


(5) If Jupitor is strong in the horoscope, of people 
having acquarius as their ascendant, it may prove a veri- 
table boon for them. Jupitor of such people increases 
the value and worth of the house and its lord that it may 
aspect, for the reason that Jupitor—a natural significator 
of "WEALTH" here becomes lord oftwo houses 2ml 
and 11th) each of which again stands for wealth. 


(6) Jupitor is of long Stature. Like Mercury Saturn 
and Rahu, it's aspect on things makes them of long s a- 
ture length etc. For example, if Mercury, Jupitor etc 
are aspecting the lagna and the Moon as also the lords 
of these signs, the native will be of "LONG" bodily sta- 
ture. 


(7) For ladies Jupitor is of special importance. In 
each female nativity, Jupitor stands for the husband. 
‘VAIDUSHYAM VIJITENDRIYAM DHAV SUKHAMN? 
says the author of PHAL DEEPIKA. It means Jupitor is 
wise and self controlled and represents the longivity of 
the husband in the female horoscope. Hence when in a 
female nativity, Jupitor himself becomes the lord of the 
7th house and is strong, it indicates not only cordial 
relations of the lady with her husband and vice versa but 
also good longivity for the husband. On the contrary 
if such a Jupitor in a female horoscope is under the 
"SEPERATIVE" influence of the planets Sun Saturn 
and Rahu, who also influence the 7th house, the lady is 
divorced by her husband soon after the marriage. 


36 


A strong Jupitor of people with Pisces as their ascen- 
dant, denotes the acquisition by them of ruling or exe- 
cutive powers, since Jupitor—a significator of govern- 
mental favours, becomes lord of two houses—lIst and the 
10th, each of which represents the same type of power. 


(9) <A strong Jupitor for people having Scorpio as 
their ascendant ensures good speaking powers and oratory, 
for jupitor—one of the significators of speech himself be- 
comes the lord of houses representing speech. 


(10) Jupitor situated in the 9th house in the case of 
people having Libra as their ascendant, confers devotion 
to and company of the Guru, for Jupitor—a spiritual 
planet becomes lord of the house of friends and associates 
(3rd_ house) 


(11) Jupitor even though situated in the 12th house 
a bad house in the horoscope and in an inimical sign 
(Libra) as representative of "SON" ie as lord of the 5th 
house in a scorpio nativity, does not deny male issues, 
provided it is retrograde, for retrogression is a source of 
strength for all planets. 


(12) Jupitor if situated in the lagna is endowed with 
"DIRECTIONAL" strength. 

(13) Jupitor stands for letters in the "TA" (T 
pronounced as in "TEERTHA") varga ie "TA", THA", 
"DA", DHA", and "NA". When Jupitor indicates the 
initial letter of a name, it is one of the five letters of his 
varga. 


Venus. {1} Venus is a planet given to luxury and 
enjoyment. When Venus is lord ofa house representing 
sexual enjoyment and is placed in another house also 
representing the same trait, it makes the native "OVER- 
SEXED". Examples are Venus of Taurus in the 7th 
house or of Libra in the 12th house. In these cases the 


37 


planet is considered as lord of the 12th in the 7th house 
and as lord of the 7th house in the 12th house. 


(2) Venus is the significator of wife, in Male nativi- 
ties. Ifit is occupying an inimical sign in the 7th house 
and is under the affliction of malefic planets who also 
afflict the lord of the 7th house, then the wife of the 
native is short lived. 


(3) Venus represents the face. When it is lord of the 
2nd house and is also under benefic influence along with 
the lord of the second house, it indicates a beautiful 
and handsome face. 


(4) Venus is intimately connected with articles of 
luxury and refinement. If Venus influences, by associa- 
tion or aspect, the lagna, it's lord, the chandra lagna and 
it's lord, it makes the native a person of refined tastes, 
earning his livlihood by the sale etc of such articles of 
luxury as fancy goods, cosmetics, fine cloth etc. 


(5) Venus is fond of truth. If as lord of lagna it is 
influenced by Mercury-lord of the 9th house, as in the 
case of the libra ascendant, it makes the native a_ lover of 
truth. 


(6) Venus lord of Taurus lagna, if afflicted indicates 
trouble in the second part of the "KALA PURUSHA" 
ie in the neck of the native, if it is afflicted as lord of 
libra ascendant trouble in the 7th limb of the "KALA 
PURUSHA" ie in the private parts of the native. 


(7) If both Jupitor and Venus of a libra nativity 
influence a particular house and it's lord, the native is 
very kindly disposed towards the person represented by 
that house. If, for example, both of them influence the 
4th house and it's lord-Saturn in a libra nativity, the por- 
son is devotedly engaged in doing good to the masses in 


38 


general. If the same two planets influence the 8th 
house and it's lord in the same libra nativity the native 
saves the lives of many people through his merciful 
actions. 


(8) If Venus happens to lie in the 12th house along 
with or under the influence of Saturn and Rahu, the man 
overuses his eyes and also wastes much of his vital fluid 
through various causes. The reason is obvious. In such 
cases there is "SEPARATIVE" influence on the eye and 
the semen factors. 


(9) Venus in the case of people with Sagittarius 
ascendant should always be considered as a planet of 
"INJURY", as Venus in such cases becomes the lord of 
two houses each of which represents “INJURY”’—the 6th 
house being a house of injury and the 1 Ith house too 
being of the same trait as it is sixth to sixth. 


(10) If the planet Sun is afflicted by association or 
aspect, by both Saturn and Venus, the Sun should be 
considered to be weak resulting in the shortening of the 
life of the fathv of the native. 


(11) In the case of people with libra ascendant, 
Venus becomes the lord of the Ist and 8th house, both 
of which denote the "mode of death" through the influ- 
ence falling upon them. In case therefore, there is a 
similar type of influence on these houses and their lords, 
that influence denotes the mode of death. For example, 
ff in the case of a libra nativity the lagna and the 8th 
house are under the influence of mars or Ketu, and these 
malefic planets also afflict Venus, then the death of the 
native takes place through some injury or accident. 


39 


(12) The location of Venus 12th from All the three 
lagnas is a boon indeed, for in fuch a case all the lagnas 
are strengthened and the strengthening of the lagnas 
means the acquisition of high status and powers. (See 
horoscope No. 7) 


(13) Venus gets "DIRECTIONAL" strength by being 
located in the 4th house. 


(14) In the alphabet Venus gets the "CHA" varga i.e. 
represents the letters "CHA", SCHHA”} "JA", "JHA" 
and }NJA": When Venus denotes the name ofa person 
or a thing, it begins the name with one of it's five letters 


noted above. 


Saturn. Saturn is the "KARKA" or significator 6! 
life. In other words it's strength counts very much in 
giving good longivity. When, therefore Saturn is strong 
as lord of the two houses of longivity viz the Ist and the 
Sth house, it particularly denotes long life to the native. 


(2) Colour of Saturn is Black. If saturn and Rahu 
(who acts as Saturn) influence, by association and or by 
Fspett) the factors that represent the face and the body 
as a whole, viz the lagna it's lord, the Chandra lagna, 


40 


and its lord, the surya lagna and it's lord, the second 
house and it's lord, the aspect etc. denotes that the colour 
of the body of the native is black or dark. 


(3) Saturn is also the significator of "Disease" in 
general. When there is Capricorn or Acquarius in the 
6th house ofa nativity, and that house is occupied by 
Rahu, then Saturn gets special power to cause disease. 
In such a case the house occupied by saturn or aspected 
by it will indicate the limb of the native that is likely to 
be afflicted with disease. 


(4) Saturn being black in colour, likes, as it were, 
dark surroundings in the broadest sense of the term 
"DARK". In the educational field it's role is thus of 
darkness i.e. it does not like the native to be benefitted by 
the light of education. When, therefore, Saturn aspects 
the house of education viz the 2nd house énd it's lord the 
5th house and it's Jord} and Mercury, the native gets 
every little academic education. 


(5) Saturn represents the nerves in the body. When 
it is situated in the 11th house, it may cause death by 
such nervous trouble as paralysis, or arthiritis, more so 
if Rahu too is afflicting one or both of these houses. The 
reason is that Saturn and Rahu will in such cases influ- 
ence the lagna and the 8th house=thé two houses that 
denote the mode of death in the horoscope, through the 
type of influence on them=nervous in this case as both 
Rahu and Saturn represent nerves of the body. 


(6) The planet Saturn is lowest in status in the plane- 
tary cabinet. It, therefore, represents servants, menials 
labourors and other categories of persons low in the 


41 


social rung. Being uneducated and uncultured the tone 
of the speech of Saturn is "HARSH". Unless, therefore, 
Saturn is found to be under the influence of benefic 
planets, it will make the speech of the person in whose 
house the sign Capricorn falls "HARSH" in content. For 
example if the ascendant is Taurus, the sign Capricom 
falls in the 9th house—the house of father who is likely 
to be harsh in speech. Similarly if a native is born in 
cancer lagna his wife is likely to have a harsh tongue, for 
here the sign Capricorn will fall in the 7th house—the 
house of wife. The reason in each case is that the lord 
of the sign of the house of speech (2nd) in each case is 
saturn—the uneducated and the uncultured. 


(7) If saturn is the lord of the lagna i.e. when Capri- 
corn or acquarius fall in the Ist house, and Saturn is 
afflicted anywhere in the birth chart by the malefic influ- 
ence of Mars Rahu etc., the native generally has trouble 
in the knees or legs represented by the signs 10 and II: 
These signs in those cases get special representative value 
by virtue of the fact that they fall in the ascendant. For 
a detailed study of the reasons leading to the full repre- 
sentation of the limbs denoted by the signs in the lagna 
please refer to the author's "MEDICAL ASTROLO' ry 
(Lakshmi Book Stores, Queens Road, New Delhi). 


(8) Saturn, Sun, Rahu and the lord of the 12th house 
in any horoscope are "SEPERATIVE" in nature, that is 
to say, they seperate one from the traits and characteristics 
of the house etc. that they may influence by association 
or aspect. Ifany two or more of these planets influence 
factor or factors that are in turn fully representative of a 
particular relation, trait or quality, one is Seperated from 
estranged with, or has to leave the relation etc. concerned. 


42 


tag for example, when such an influence falls on the ascen- 
dant and it's lord there is loss of health and wealth, 
See horoscope No. 8 


Fig. No. 8 


If it falls on the 7th house it’s lord and Venus, (or on 
Jupitor in the case offemale nativities) one is seperated or 
divorced from his wife, or the husband, as the case muay- 
be, if it falls on the 2nd house and its lord, one has to 
leave his family and live away from them for some 
time, if it falls on the 10th house, it’s lord and on the 
Sun, one has to give up the ruling powers or the kingdom 
that he may be having control of (CF the horoscope of 
King Edward VIII, where the 10th house, the lord of the 
10th house and Sun are all influenced by Saturn in 
Acquarius Nativity.) 


(9) Of all the nine planets Saturn is the slowest in 
motion. An idea of it's slow motion can be easily formed 
from the fact that a distance that is covered by moon in 
a little over two days is travelled by saturn in about two 
years and a half. The symbological interpretation of this 
fact is that Saturn is a "DELAYING", "PROLONGING" 


43 


Fig. No. g > * 


"LONG LASTING" factor. That is the reason why men 
and women in whose birth charts Saturn becomes the 
lord of the house of marriage (7th) marry rather late in 
life, provided of course, the factors of marriage i. the 
7th house, it’s lord and the signifactor of wife or husband 
(Venus and Jupitor) are not under benefic influence. 


(10) Saturn by itselfis a female planet and its influ- 
ence by position, association or aspect is faminine in effect. 
For example, when Saturn is very strong in the horoscope 
as lord of the 5th house and is not afflicted by Malefic 
planets, it indicates for the native daughters in good 
nuinbers. 


(11) Saturn is a sad, morose, cold and dispassionate 
planet. It's influence by association or aspect on the 
factors that represent the mind in the birth chart namely 
the 4th house, it's lord and Moon make the mind sad, 
meloncholy and dispassionate, as in the case of Sanyasins 
One may, however, not resort to sanyasa actually, merely 
on the basis of such an affliction, forto have sanyasa one 
has not only to have a dispassionate mind, but he has to 
leave his family and house and the means of enjoyment 


44 


(12th): Thus the yoga for full fledged Sanyas would 
require not only the affliction of the 4th house, it's lord 
and Moon, but in addition there must be the affliction 
(by the separative influence of Sun Saturn etc.) of the 
second and the 12th houses and their lords. 


(12) Saturn is the significator Oflands. When, there 
fore. Saturn is strong as lord of the 4th house, it gives the 
possession of lands to the native. 


(13) Saturn in the 7th house gets "DIRECTIONAL" 
strength. It is very strong in that house particularly in 
it's exaltation or own sign or in the sign of it's friends. In 
such a case, other things being not unfavourable, it 
denotes long life to the husband or the wife, as the case 
may be. 


(14 Saturn represents the "PA" varga of the alphabet 
ie. the letters "PA", "PHA", "BA", "BHA * and "MA". 
Whenever, therefore} Saturn denoted a name it gives the 
Starting or initial letter of the name from one of the letters 
cited above. 


Rahu. The good and bad qualities of this shadowy 
planet are, in general, like those of the planet Saturn. 
Like Saturn it is black in colour, long in stature, slow 
in motion, nerves among the tissues, {‘seperative’) in 
character, opposed to light and knowledge, and creator 
of Fear etc. 


(2) A distinctive feature of Rahu and Ketu is that 
these "shadowy" planets are known for their sudden and 
unexpected results, of course in both good and bad 
directions. If, for example, Rahu is located in the 9th 


45 


house, and the lord of that house is strong, particularly if 
Mercury as lord of that house is strong, then there is 
sudden and unexpected rise in life, such as an unexpected 
promotion, superceding others, a favour from the Gové! 
that is not so well deserved, a divine help that can not be 
accounted for on the basis of one's own actions. In the 
same manner if Rahu is in the 2nd house or the 11th or 
the 5th house, and the lord of these houses are strong, 
one gets unexpected money, such as through lottery or a 
windfall etc. 


(3) When Rahu is located with Saturn, we should be 
very cautious about the aspect of Rahu falling on the Sth, 
7th or the 9th houses from that of Rahu. In such a case 
Rahu not only throws it's own adverse influence on the 
houses it aspects but also conveys to those houses the 
malefic influence of Saturn with which it is situated. 
This is so because Rahu is a shadowy planet and its 
nature is transformed by the planet under whose influence 
it may be placed, by association or aspect. For example, 
if Rahu and Saturn are situated together in the 10th 
house, the 2nd house is adversely effected (Gn regard to 
finances disease etc.) by the Sth aspect of Rahu on it as 
also by the influence of Saturn on this house through 
Rahu. 


(4) Rahu is a planet that denotes foreign elements in 
all fields. In the field of "CASTES" it denotes castes 
outside the pale of Hindu society. In the field of 
"TERRITORIES" it denotes foreign countries. Thus 
it stands for "OTHER" and "ALIEN" relations and 
subjects The 6th house too is a house of "ENEMIES" 
i.e. of others and foreigners. Heéncé when both the lord 
of the 6th house and Rahu or the planet that is lord of 


46 


the 6th house when Rahu occupies it, aspects or influences 
any house that house becomes "FOREIGN" or has rela- 
tions with foreign elements. For example, if in a female 
nativity, the 6th house is under the aspect o" Rahu, as 
also under the influence of the lord of the sign 
occupied by Rahu, then the 6th house will be considered 
to have "FOREIGN" influence. Now since the 6th 
house is 12th from the 7th, it represents the pleasures of 
the bed for the husband of the native. Such a combina- 
tion will mean that the pleasures of the bed of the husband 
are foreign in nature. In other words the husband is 
involved in sex affairs with other women. 


(5) Rahu is a planet that has always retrograde 
motion. When there is the sub period of Rahu in the 
main period of a retrograde planet, or vice versa, the 
events relate to the things returned, restored, regained, 
or compensated for, such as the restoration of lost pro- 
perty, or getting compensation therefor. 


(6) When Rahu and Mars are both throwing their 
influence on the 2nd house and it's lord, the face of the 
native gets paralysed, as both Rahu and Mars have the 
quality of turning things out of shape, and Rahu is a 
nervous planet standing for the nerves. 


Ketu. The qualities and traits of Ketu are like those 
of Mars. Ketu like Mars is EFIRY2in nature. If Ketu 
is jnfluencing any house together with any other firy 
planets, such as Mars and Sun, the relation or the limb 
involved Will catch fire or get injured. For example 
if the combined firy influence is noticed on the second 
house, one gets his or her face burnt. 


47 


(2) If Ketu is located with a benefic planet in dignity 
i.e. in it's own house, it boosts the qualities, good or bad, 
of the house in which such a combination takes place. 
For example if Ketu is with Venus in Libra in the 2nd 
house it makes the person very rich. The same combina- 
tion occuring in the 9th house would denote that the 
person concerned is highly lucky and is in the very good 
books of the government, if it takes place in the third 
house, he is very couragious and brave with mighty power. 
Hitler who had Ketu with Jupitor in dignity in the third 
house is known in history for his mighty force with which 
he had well nigh conquered the whole world. 


(3) As already stated Ketu like Rahu is known for 
giving unexpected results and acts like a shadowy planet 
i.e. gives the effects of the planet with which associated. 
For example, Ketu is situated with a yoga karaka' planet 
(a planet that is simultaneoutly the lord of a trine anda 
square) then the plannet that is the lord of the sign 
occupied by Ketu will give affluence wind falls etc, such 
as the gain of a lottery or a prize in it's sub period in 
the Vimshottari dasha. 


48 


Some Fundamental and Important 
Rules Explained 


(1) When a king loses his kingdom or abdicates, 
when a person leaves his home and hearth and becomes a 
sanyasin, when a divorce takes place between the wife 
and the husband, there is always evidence in the birth 
chart, of influence of a "SEPERATIVE" nature being 
exerted on the houses concerned. We have observed in 
"HORA SHATAK": 


"Chhaya Atmaja Pangu Divakareshu Khet 
Dveyo Dishati Yatra Nij Prabhavam Noonam 
Prathakta Vishayadhi Tasmat Dashme Yathah Raj 
Nyasam Ahu." 


Translation. Out of Rahu Saturn and Sun when two 
or more planets throw their influence on a house etc, the 
native is seperated from the traits of that house. Just as, 
if Rahu and Saturn are aspecting the 10th house (and 
it's lord) one has to lose his kingdom or job. The princi- 
ple of "Separation" illustrated above is of universal 
applicability. In the field of health and disease, when 
we find that the 6th part ofthe "KALA PURUSHA" ie 
the 6th house, it's lord, the 6th sign (virgo) and its lord 
(Mercury) are all afflicted through association or aspect, 


49 


by Saturn and Rahu, one suffers from Hernia, which is 
obviously a disease wherein the intestines (represented by 
the 6th part of the Kala purusha) are dislocated ie separa- 
ted from their normal location, in the human system. 


(2) Rahu and Ketu—the shadowy planets too have 
aspects like the rest of the planets. Their aspect is of 
utmost importance. If their aspect is overlooked, the 
conclusions drawn would certainly be contrary to facts, 
Rahu and Ketu aspect i e throw their influence on the 
house, sign or the planet placed 7th from them. This is 
a common rule for all the planets. In addition Rahu 
and Ketu have "Aspects" similar to those of Jupitor i e 
these shadowy planets fully aspect or influence the house 
etc placed 5th and 9th from them. 


(3) The aspect of Rahu and Ketu is of course malefic 
in character, but when these shadowy planets are associa- 
ted with or are under the aspect of malefic planets, they 
not only impart their own malefic nature to the house 
they aspect but also throw thereon the influence of the 
malefic planet or planets associated with them or aspecting 
them. The nason of course is that these planets are 
shadowy in nature and assume the additional role of the 
malefic planets under whose influence they may be 
placed. 


(4) The lord of the sign occupied by Rahu acts like 
Saturn and that of the sign occupied by ketu acts like 
Mars. The former will impart to the house ete aspected 
by it such traits of Saturn as Disease, seperation, delay, 
hurdles etc and the latter will impart such traits of Mars 
as to bring about firy accident, cause injury, create theft 
etc. The lord of the sign occupied by Rahu or Ketu will 
act Like Saturn and Mars even if the planet involved be 


50 


Jupitor,. Thus, while studying the effects of planets like 
Jupitor one should take care to see if he is not the lord of 
the sign occupied by these nodes. 


(5) The lord of the first, fifth and the nineth houses 
are generally firy in nature because these houses are of 
that nature. 


The lord of the 2nd, 6th and the 10th houses repre- 
sent the "EARTHLY" qualities. The lord of the 3rd, 7th 
and the I1th house represent "AIR" and those of the 4th 
8th and the 12th houses represent "WATER" If, however 
these houses are occupied by any planet, the lord thereof 
will represent the element of the planet in occupation, 
and not the nature of the planet that is the lord of the 
house. For example, Ketu and Mars are situated in the 
12th house in pisces, then the lord of the 12th house ie 
Jupitor, according to the normal rules stated above stands 
for "WATER", being lord of a watery house, but in this 
tase, it will not act as water but will act as "FIRE", since 
it will carry the effects of the firy planets-Ketu and Mars' 
which occupy the sign of Jupitor in the 12th house. It 
is thus clear that when a firy planet occupies a firy house 
containing a firy sign, such as Mars and Ketu located in 
Aries in the 5th house, it's lord will represent "FIRE" in 
many capacities and as such will cause much harm ot 
the house etc it may influence. See horoscopes nos. 10 & LI 


(6) In fact there is a fundamental law working be- 
hind the rule No: 5 staled above. That law is that a 
planet, irrespective of it's nature will give the effects of the 
planet that is occupying its sign. Suppose, for example, 
that Mars is located in Sagittarius, then Jupitor lord of 
the sign Sagittarius will have to a very great extent, the 
destructive, injurius and firy nature of Mars occupying 


51 


Xx! 2 


Fig. No. 10 Fig. No. 11 
it's sign. The association with or the aspect on the other 
houses in the horoscope in such cases will be considered 
mainly as the association or aspect of Mars. In such cases 
the results are, of course, bound to be modified or trans- 
formed. 

(7) Mercury, Moon and Jupitor are natural benefic 
planets. Sun is a cruel if not a malefic planet. Mars, 
Saturn, Rahu and Ketu are natural malefic planets. The 
benefic nature of Mercury and Moon is subject to much 
variation. If Mercury is alone, it is considered a benefic 
planet ana acts as such. If, however, it is with some 
other planet, it acts in a modified manner. In case it is 
with another natural benefic planet, it also acts as a natu- 
tal benefic. If it is associated with a malefic planet it 
also acts as a malefic. As regards Moon the nearer it is 
to Sun, the weaker it becomes. It's weakness starts when 
it is 72 degrees behind the Sun. It's weakness continues 
to increase until it is on the same longitude as the Sun, 
when it is the weakest. Then it seperates itself from the 
Sun and gathers some strength but continues to be weak 


§2 


till it is within 72 degrees of the Sun on the other siae. 
From this point onwards it becomes stronger and stronger 
until it is strongest when it is at the maximum distance 
from the Sun ie 180 degrees from it. The assessment of 
the strength of Moon when it is near the Sun is a diffi- 
cult affair. For even when Moon is near the Sun, if 
the Sun, himself becomes weak by location etc, then Moon 
becomes strong. If for example, Sun is in the sign Libra 
in the 4th house, with Saturn and Venus, and Moon is in 
Scorpio in the 5th house, then Moon even though in the 
vicinity of Sun will be considered to be strong, for Sun in 
such a case becomes weak by reason of the fact that it is 
firstly in the 4th house, where it is weak being devoid of 
directional strength, secondly it is in it's debilitation sign 
and thirdly it is with two inimical planets—Saturn and 
Venus. 

(8) Ifany house is aspected by it's own lord, be it a 
natural malefic or a natural benefic, and if the house so 
aspected or it's lord is also aspected by a benefic planet, 
the traits of the house so aspected are highly boosted. If 
for example, Mars is located in the sign Libra in the 5th 
house in a birth chart and if Jupitor is located in the 
12th or the 7th house, then Mars aspects it's own sign 
Aries falling in the 11th house and Jupitor aspects the 
sign Aries or it's lord Mars and as such boosts "IN- 
COME" and "GAINS" denoted by the 11th house in 
which the sign Aries falls. It must, however, be remem- 
bered that the aspect of Mars even though on it's own 
sign in the 11th house, is operative, will not be condu- 
cive to the longivity of elder brothers denoted by the 11 th 
house, unless Mars or the 11th house is aspected by 
Jupitor. 

(9) A planet in retrogression should always be consi- 
dered as strong. For example ifin a birth chart having 


53 


Scorpio as the ascendant, Jupitor is located in the 12th 
house, and in inimical sign (Libra) but is retrograde in 
motion, it will still ensure the birth of male issues, to the 
native. 


(10) The planet Venus feels very happy in the 12th 
house. This is contrary to the general rule which says 
that a planet in the 12th house becomes weak and causes 
harm to the traits it represents) Why is Venus strong 
and happy in the 12th house? The answer lies in the fact 
that the traits of the 12th house and the planet Venus 
are similar and ccmplcmentary. Both Venus and the 
12th house represent ‘-BHOGA” or enjoyment and luxury 
Due to this affinity Venus in the 12th house is strong. 
Hence people in whose horoscopes Venus is placed in 
the 12th house in a friendly sign, have generally long 
living wives. That the planet Venus gives good results 
by it's location in the 12th house is the opinion of the 
authors of SBHAVARTH RATNAKAR" and "UTTAR 
KALAMRIT". These authors also hold the view that 
the location of Venus in the 6th house too causes affluence. 
Here also the reason is the same viz the affinity between 
Venus and the 12th house, which it would aspect by being 
situated in the 6th house. 


(11) Ifthere is any planet situated in the 10th house 
from any place or planet, then the place or the planet 
should be considered to have the influence on them of the 
planet situated 10th frem them. We may call it "KEN- 
DRA ASPECT". For example, if Jupitor is located in 
the 5th house and Saturn is in the 2nd house, then Jupi- 
tor should be considered to be under the "KENDRA 
ASPECT" of Saturn. In fact the astrological texts allot 
such aspect 3/4th the value of full aspect. 


54 


(12) The Ist, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th and 10th houses 
in a horscope are called good houses, if the lord of any 
of these good houses is situated in it's sign of debilitation, 
but there is "NEECHA BHANG" for the debilitated pla- 
net, then the effects of the "NEECHA BHANGA" ie the 
cancellation of debility, is very nice for the traits of the 
house or houses ov2r which th2 d2bilitated planet has 
lordship. For example, if birth is in Leo ascendant, and 
Sun the lord of the 1st house is in the third house occupy- 
ing the sign libra. If now sun gets "NEECHA BHANGA" 
then the person concerned gets excellent results in regard 
to the 1st house over which Sun has lordship—results such 
as ruling powers, honour. wealth etc. The "NEECHA 
BHANGA" Raj Yoga is constituted— 


(i) When the debilitated planet is in kendra from 
lagna or the Moon. 


(ii) When the lord of the sign where the debilitated 
planet gets exhalted (Mars in the above example) is in 
kendra from the lagna or Moon. 


(iii) The lord of the debilitation sign of the debilitated 
planet (Venus in the above example) and the lord of the 
exhaltation sign of the debilitated planet (Mars in the 
above example) are mutually in kendras. 


(iv) When the planet in debilitation (Sun in the above 
example) is asp2cted by the lord of the exhaltation sign 
of that debilitated planet (Mars in the above example) 


(v) When the planet which is exhalted in the debili- 
tation sign of the debilitated planet, is in kendra from the 
lagna or the Moon. 


55 


(13) If a planet happens to be the lord of "good" 
houses from all the three lagnas ie from the lagna proper, 
from the Chandra lagna and from the Surya lagna, it 
is considered greatly beneficial in results. 


56 


The First House or the Ascendant 


The evolutionary and scientific order of the 12 houses ofthe 
Horoscope 


The first house is called the house of "BIRTH". The 
very first event that relates to the life of man is his 
"BIRTH". That is the reason why all those things that 
are related to the birth or the conditions obtaining at the 
time of birth are considered and judged from the first 
house of the horoscope. Under this principle we always 
consider the caste of a man, Brahmin, Kshatriya etc. from 
the ascendant. Similarly the colour of the body or its 
stature is a trait that is got by man from the very birth, 
and as such the height and colour of a man are judged 
from the type of influence received by the Ist house. 


(2) Evolution is a fact recognised both by science 
and religion. The science of astrology also recognises the 
evolutionary nature of man. It is in recognition of this 
fact that we find that the houses in a birth chart denote 
traits in an evolutionary order. It is in pursuance of the 
evolutionary nature of the universe that while the first 
house denotes the birth the 12th house indicates "LIBER- 
ATION" or SMOKSHA’the last house indicating the 
culmination of the evolutionary process. 


57 


(3) In the evolutionary process the most essential 
thing for the man is his birth first of all. Birth gives him 
a body. Now this body cannot be sustained or maintain- 
ed without nourishment, which must be in hand without 
any effort on the part of the newly born child. The house 
"at hand" i.e. the 2nd house is the nearest in order and 
hence all ready made, or accumulated nourishment, eata- 
bles or wealth that sustains the body is considered and 
judged astrologically from the second house. Even in the 
conception of the ‘Kala Purusha’', the first house represents 
the head and the second the mouth, which is connected 
intimately with the food and other types of wealth. 
Thus it is but appropriate that in the evolutionary ascent 
of man the second house should be related to and _ repre- 
sent wealth including the wealth in the form of accumu- 
lated food. 


(4) It is a well known fact and a fact that does not 
require the study of the science of economics, that wealth 
can be produced only by labour and hard work. It is, 
therefore, at once suggested to us that the house next to 
that of wealth should represent 'labour' and effort, and the 
allied traits such as the "arms" the effort of the arms or 
the "armed" forces and their functions. Brothers are pro- 
verbially known as "Arms" of any individual, and as such 
are also considered and judged from the third house. We 
thus see that in the evolutionary process the traits alloted 
to the third house in astrology i.e. labour etc are of im- 
mediate necessity to those of the preceding house, viz the 
second which represents wealth of every type. 


(5) The human body even though helped by the 
accumulated wealth and the power to work cannot still 
produce weath or work unless there is the will to work. 


53 


"Where there is will there is way" goes the proverb. Hence 
what the physical labour denoted by the third house 
needs for it's proper utilization ano fruitful employment, is 
the will to work. This will or desire is a trait of the 
emotional part of the human nature. Hence the evolu- 
tionary process very appropriately allots to the 4th house 
all types of feelings and emotions, passions and joys, sorrow 
and love etc. 


(6) Emotions are generally blind. Excessive zeal is 
as harmful as the want of it. These emotions and desires 
need a direction and purpose. Hence a balanced view of 
things, their nature and workings is essential not only for 
keeping the zeal in proper proportion, but also to proceed 
in work in the right direction. Emotions have to be gui- 
ded by intellect. Hence the ancient pioneers of the science 
of astrology most appropriately alloted to the 5th house the 
trait of "intellect" and it's allied things such as the keen- 
ness or otherwise of the intellect, it's capacity for giving 
judgement and rendering advice etc. This sort of allot- 
ment to the Sth house (intellect) was an immediate nece- 
ssity to the sustenance of the traits of the 4th house 
(emotions) and as such was a right step in the evolutionary 
process. 


(7) Now ifa man is endowed with a fit body, adequate 
wealth, physical powers for work, proper desire to succeed 
and a capacity to have the requisite "know how" of 
things, he may still prove a failure in the practical field, 
for the reason, that he has not taken into account the 
hurdles, oppositions, enmities} competetive resistance that 
he has to face and overcome in this world. Thus the first 
thing that a man in the situation stated needs is the power 
and the capacity to successfully meet the challange of the 


59 


inim’cal and opposing forces. That is the reason why the 
they act in the physical field in the shape of disease or in 
the psychological ffeld through the human beings, are all 
alloted to the 6th house that follows the house of intellect 
or planning. A planning that does not take iuto account 
practical difficulties and hindrances is bound to fail. 
Hence it is in the fitness of things that in the evolutionary 
process the sixth homsé represents "enmity", "disease", 
and "debts" €tc7==thé retarding inimical forces. 


(8) Enemies in life can generally be overcome by the 
expansion of our field of friends. In case of disease our 
social contacts with competant doctors may stand us in 
good stead for the cure of the disease. In case we feel 
handicapped due to shortage of capital, we can réSort to 
the social device of getting into partnership with the _ per- 
son or the persons concerned. If we cannot pull on well 
in Sd¢ial life we may take a partner in marriage. Hence 
Partner ship, social contacts and marriage etc. are traits 
that are atonce necessary in order to better overcome the 
practical difficulties of life. That is why the house of 
partnership and the like i.e. the 7fH house comes imme- 
diately after the house of enemies (6th) in the evolutio- 
nary process. 


(9) The social contacts and the partnership in busi- 
ness and marriage denoted by the 7th house can be lasting 
in nature only if the partners in business etc. themselves 
are long lasting. Hence the quality of lasting for 
long i.e. age or longivity is very appropriately considered 
and judged from the house immediately following the 7th 
house i.e. from the 8th house of the horoscope. 


60 


(10) Our Shastras declare human life span to be in 
proportion to the needs of our moral and _ spiritual level. 
Hence to have good longivity one has to have good 
morality and spirituality. The traits of the 9th house viz 
religion, morality and spirituality have been very scienti- 
fically and rightly alloted to the 9th house in the evolu- 
tions pattern adopted in the shape of the horoscope. 


(11) Religion and morality have their roots in good 
actions. Without good karma, without unselfish and de- 
voted service real religious life is simply not possible. 
Hence good karmad in the best spirit of the teachings of 
feligion; are alloted to and judged from the 10th house, 
which immediately follows the house of religion (9th). 


(12) What is the source of sustenance for good ac- 
tions ? The answer is "good" actions of the highest type, 
actions that have no personal interest in them, actions that 
are good by the very nature of the doer and are not moti- 
vated by any personal benefit howsoever subtle. In other 
words the habit of doing good for goodness's sake is the 
only criterion for good karma. Such an attitude and 
capacity is denoted by the I] th house, which due to the 
excellence of the fact of acquisition of such traits has come 
to be known as the house of "GAINS". 


(13) The state of mind which is capable of perform- 
ing every single act out of love and thselfish:motive with- 
out the least tinge of selfishness is fully possible only in the 
LJEEVAN MUKTA" stage. This stage ensures selfless 
actions. That is why the 12th house that comes imme- 
diately after the TItH house is called the house of 
EMOKSHA®) It will also be noted that the 12th house 
is always nagation of the house from which it is [2th! For 


61 


example the 9th house stands for morality, and the house 
12th from it i.e. the 8th house would and does stand for 
sins—which are the nagation of morality. In a similar 
manner the 12th house is the nagation of the Ist house. This 
is quite true for in the state of liberation one is beyond the 
mind and the intellect and therefore beyond the body. 
Thus for this reason too the trait of "LIBERATION" has 
been appropriately assigned to the 12th house. 


(14) We have thus seen by a detailed examination of 
each of 12 houses of the horoscope that the allotment of 
traits to the various houses of the horoscope has a_ scienti- 
fic basis. It is evolutionary in character that is to say it is 
intended to denote the various phases of man's progress 
from birth right to liberation. 


(15) Treatment Of the Surya and Chandra Lagnas as 
Lagnas Authorities like Parashar enjoin that the houses 
occupied by the Moon and the Sun should also be consi- 
dered as lagnas. In other words the questions relating to 
finances should be considered not only by an examination 
of the second house from the lagna but also from the 
Surya Lagna and the Chandra lagna as well. Similarly 
the question relating to brothers should be examined not 
onli from the 3rd house from the lagna but also from. the 
third house from the Surya lagna and the Chandra lagna. 
Problems relating to the rest of the houses should similarly 
be considered from all the three laganas. 


The author of "DEVA KERLAM" says :— 


"Chandra Lagnam Shriram Syat Lagnam Syat 
Pran Sanmgyakam Te Ubhe Sampreekshyaiva Sarva 
Nadi Phalam Smritam”’. 


62 


Translation: —TheChandra lagna is body of the native. 
The ascendant is the Pranas. One should declare the 
results of divination only after duly considering the pro- 
blem involved from the house concerned both in the lagna 
and Chandra lagna. In an other place the same author has 
widened the scope so as to include the Surya lagna as 
well in the scheme ._ He avers :— 


"Tryanam Putra Nathanam Lagmat Chandrat 
Cha Bhaskarat Sphut Yogam Gate Jeeve Putra 
Labham Vinirdishet”’. 


Translation :—When in transit the planet jupitor esta- 
blishes a yoga or link through association or aspect with 
the lord of the 5th house from lagna, chandra lagna and 
Surya Lagna, one should predict the birth of a son at that 
time. The idea is that the examination is more valid and 
useful if it is conducted from all the three lagnas and not 
merely from the lagna. 


The First House and SUDARSHAN, The main point to 
be noted in the system known as “SUDARSHANY is that 
the divination of the birth chart has to be carried out 
with reference to all the three lagnas i.e. from the lagna. 
the Surya lagna and the Chandra lagna in the natal 
horoscope. Ifany one planet becomes the lord of a 
particular number of house from all the lagnas, it is quite 
obvious that it would represent the traits of that house to 
the fullest extent, as against the case where it is lord of 
that house only from one lagna. In other words the 
malefic influence on a planet that is the lord of the same 
house from all the three lagnas will do more harm than 
would have been the case had it received the same malefic 
influence as lord of the same house from one lagna only. 
Similarly such a fully representative planet if strong and 
well aspected will indicate the accruence of better results 


63 


in regard to the house over which it has lordship. 
Suppose, for example, that the ascendant in a horoscope 
is Aries and Moon occupies the sign Virgo. Then Venus 
will be the lord of the second house both from the gna 
and the Moon. If Venus is strong and not aspected by 
any malefic planet, it will indicate that the native possesses 
a most handsom face — more handsom than would 
have been the case had Venus been the lord of the second 
house only from lagna and not from moon as well. In 
short for better and truer results we should always 
examine planetary positions with reference to all lagnas. 

(See horoscope no. 12 & 13) 


Fig. No. 13 

(17) Bodily Constitution=Bulkj or Thin. When the 
lagnas are influenced by association or aspect, relatively 
more by "WATERY" planets or exclusively by 
"WATERY" planets, or when the lords Bfthe lagnas 
themselves are "WATERY" planets and are strong and 
uninfluenced by malefic planets, the native gets a 
"BULKY" body. In this context the outhor of "SAR- 
VARTH CHINTAMANI" has opined :- 


64 


tam Ahu." 


Translation. If benefic planets occupy a _ watery sign 
in the lagna, or if the lord ofthe lagna is a watery planet, 
strong and associated with benefic planets one has a bulky 
body. 


(18) Stature ofthe Body. Saturn, Rahu Mercury arid 
Jupitor are long in stature. When there is dominant in- 
fluence of these planets on the lagnas and their lords, the 
native gets a fall body. On the contrary, when Mars and 
Venus have such dominant influence the body bBfithe 
native is short in length. In case there is influence ofa 
"MIXED" type one gets a "MIDDLE SIZED" body. 


(19) Balarishta or Serious Trouble in Early Age. The 
lagna being the very first house in the horoscope, Stands 
as already stated, for the period of life immediately 
following birth ie. infancy and very early childhood. 
Similarly Moon is the significator of {InfancyZ] Hence 
if the lagna and the chandra lagna and their lords arc 
strong the child passes through it's infancy safely. [If] on 
the contrary, these factors are weak and afflicted then there 
is danger to the life of the newly born child in infancy 
and early childhood. Varah Mihir has stated in "BRIHAT 
JATAK" in the chapter dealing with "BALARISHTA" 
as under :- 


"Ksheene Himgad Vyayage Papai Udaya Shtam 
gai Kendreshu Shubhashcha Na Chet Kshipram 
Nidhanam Pravadet.2 


Translation. If weak Moon occupies the 12th house, and 
if there are malefic planets in the Ist and the 8th houses, 


65 


and if there are no benefic planets in the kendras, then 
the newly born child meets it's death in infancy itself. 
Moon being in the nature of a lagna represents body and 
longivity and as such when situated in a bad house viz. 
the 12th would naturally indicate harm to tht body and 
it's longivity. When malefic planets occupy the Ist and 
the 8th houses, then also longivity suffers, as both the Ist 
and the 8th house stand for age and longivity. Planets in 
kendras may be considered to be conductive to longivity 
for two reasons. In the first place natural benefic planets if 
strong are conductive to longivity and it is obvious that 
by being in the kendras they will be strong indeed. 
Secondly the location of natural benefic planets in the 
kendras strengthens the lagna and the strengthening of the 
lagna has the effect of increasing FLongivity2=2 trait of 
lagna. It is for this reason that it has been stipulated in 
the Eloka that the kendras should not be devoid of the 
presence of benefics. 


(20) Lagna and the Pervasive Tissues. If Sun is the lord 
of the lagna, it represents "BONE". Ifmooris thé lord 
of the lagna, it represents "BLOOD", Similarly Mars as 
the lord of the lagna stands for the "MUSCLES" in the 
body. Mercury in that position indicates "SKIN" 
Jupitor as the lord of the lagna denotes "FAT". Venus 
in that position indicates "SEMEN" Lastly if Saturn is 
the lord of the lagna it represents "NERVES" of the 
body. Why should the Sun as the lord of the lagna 
represent "BONE" in preference to eyes heart etc. of 
which too it is a significator ? The answer lies in the fact 
that lagna is "BODY AS A WHOLE" too, and as such 
when Sun is the lord of the lagna it will represent such of 
it's traits as are relatively better part of "BODY AS A 
WHOLE", for bones occupy more space in the body than 


66 


th2 eyes or the heart. Similarly Moon even though it 
represents lungs and chest and blood, it will in this case 
b2 representative of blood rathei than chest or lungs in as 
much as blood is functioning by circulation in a vaster 
area than do the lungs or the chest. (For further details 
please see our book “MEDICAL ASTROLOGY "— 
Lakshmi Book Stores, Queen's Road, New Delhi). Hence 
if Sun is weak and afflicted, as lord of the lagna, it will 
bring about trouble in the bones. If Moon is weak and 
afflicted as lord of the lagna it will give such complaints 
as blood pressure anaemia. If Mars is in that position it 
will give such muscular troubles as "atrophy of the 
muscles". If Mercury is suffering as the lord of the lagna 
it will bring about skin troubles such as LEUCODERMA. 
If Jupitor is afflicted as the lord of the lagna it would 
indicate loss of fat in the body. If Venus is  similary 
situated there will be loss of semen etc. Lastly if Saturn 
is the lord of the lagna and is weak and afflicted it would 
indicate the on set of the diseases of merves such as 
paralysis. 


(21) Limbs Represented by the Ascendant! [£the lord of 
the lagna is weak and afflicted by the association or aspect 
of malefic planets, then there will be trouble in the organ 
of the body represented by the sign falling in the ascen- 
dant. If the lagna is Aries, and if Mars is weak and 
afflicted by malefic planets, there is pain or disease in 
the head. If the ascendant is Taurus and Venus the lord 
of the ascendrnt is weak and afflicted, then the disease or 
injury will be in the second part of the "KALA- 
PURUSHAZ2 represented by thé sign Taurus, i.e. in the 
face. If there is the sign gemini in the ascendant, and 
the lord of the ascendant i.e. Mercury is weak and _afflic- 
ted, then 'he trouble Will be in the third part of the Kala 


67 


purusha i.e. in the respiratory canal. Ifthe ascendant is 
cancer and the lord of the legna ic. Moon is weak and 
afflicted, then disease or injury will result to the 4th part 
of the Kalapurusha ie. the chest. Ifthe ascendant is leo 
and Sun the lord Of thé ascendant is weak and afflicted, 
then the 5th part of the Kalapnrusha will suffer and the 
trouble would bé in the belly of the native concerned. If 
the ascendant is Virgo and Mercury the lord of the lagna 
is weak and Afflicted! then the 6th part ofthe Kala- 
purusha will suffer and the trouble will be in the intestines 
of the nmativé concerned. [f the lagna is Libra and 
Venus lord of the lagna is weak and afflicted, then the 
physical trouble would bé experienced in the 7th part of 
the Kalapnrusha ie. in the private parts of the native 
concerned. Ifthe ascendant is scorpio and Mars lord of 
the ascendant is weak and afflicted, then there will be 
trouble or disease in the 8th part of the Kalapurusha 7.¢. 
in scrotem Of the native concerned. If the ascendant is 
Sagittarius and Jupitor lord of the ascendant is weak and 
afflicted, then there will be injury or disease in the 9th 
part of the Kalapurusha i.e. in the hips of the native 
concerned. ifthere is the sign Capricorn in the ascendant 
and Saturn lord of the lagna is weak and afflicted, then 
il disease will be located in the 10th part of the kala- 
purusha ie. in the knees of the native concerned. Lastly 
if the ascendant is Pisces and the lord ofthe lagna ie. 
Jupitor is weak and afflicted, then the trouble should be 
looked for in the 12th part of the Kalaptiitsha fc: in the 
feet of the native concerned. In short the limb represen- 
ted by the sign in the lagna suffers through the affliction 
of the lord of the lagna. 


(22) Wnidication ! ‘isces thi elt the plancts in Laguna, 
Any planet that occupies th lagna become: ail the more 


68 


pucea representative of the tissue etc that it represents, 
therefore, a planet suffers in the lagna then it becomes 
certain that the tissue concerned should suffer. For exam- 
ple if Mars situated in the lagna is aspected by Saturn etc 
malefic planets and is without the aspect of any benefic 
planet. then the trouble takes place in muscles of the 
native. When Mercury, who represents Skin is located 
in the lagna (or if Mercury is located with Surya or Moon 
considered as lagnas) and is under the influence, by asso- 
ciation or aspect of malefic planets, without the aspect of 
benefics, them it creates such diseases of the skin as [euco- 
derma (See horosccp na: 14). Similarly if Jupitor is located 
in the lagna and is in association with or under the aspect 
of malefic planets without the aspect of benefic planets, 
then diseases of the liver etc are suffered by the native 
concerned. If Venus is located in the Lagna and is afflic- 
ted without the aspe¢t etc of any benefic planet then 
troubles take place in the urinary tract of the body of the 
native concerned. Lastly if Saturn is occupying the 
ascedant and is afflicted without ihereleiving aspect of 
any benefic planet then the man suffers from troubles 
through his Nerves. 


- ie 


69 


(23) Location of Disease through the debilitation sign of the 
lord of the lagna. 


If the lord of the Jagna is in its sign of debilitation it 
locates the disease in the part of the body indicated by the 
house in which it is situated. Mars lord of the Aries 
ascendant becomes debilitated in the fourth house and as 
such would indicate that the native is likely to suffer from 
diseases relating to the 4th house ie those of the lungs and 
the chest. Venus lord of the Taurus ascendant, if debili- 
tated would occupy the 5th house of the horoscope and 
as such would indicate that belly is the weak spot in the 
body of the man or woman concerned and he or she is 
likely to have troubles like ulcer in the stomach and the 
allied troubles. Mercury lord of the lagna debilitated in 
the [0th house 6f the horoscope, indicates occasional trou- 
ble in the knees. The trouble in this case is not serious as 
the 10th house is the strongest of kendras and as such tht 
location of Mérctry in it would give tothe planet suffi- 
cient strengh inspite of its debilitation. Moon lord of the 
lagna if debilitated in the 5th house of the horoscope in- 
dicates the likelihood of some watery trouble in the belly 
such as pleursy (See horoscope no. 15) While dealing with 
the Taurus lagna the author of "DEV KERALAM" has 
opined on page 13 of that work: — 


"Jyesht Bhratri sutadheeshe neechamshe Shubha 


Veekshite Jyesht Bhratri sutarishtam Jala gandam 
Vinirdishet.” 


Translation. When Moon is in its debilitation sign in 
the 7th house, then the son ofthe elder brother of the 
native suffers from pleursy. The 1I1this the house of the 
elder brother in the horoscope. The son of the elder 


70 


brother would be indicated by the 3rd house as that house 
is 5th from the llth house. Moon lord of the 3rd house 
world be debilitated in the 7th house and as such would 
indicate that the son ofthe elder brother to the native 
would suffer from pleursy (a watery trouble akin to the 
watery planet moon) In this connection please refer also 
to the horoscope no: 14. 


(24) Sun lord of the lagna debilitated in the 3rd 
house would indicate trouble in the arms or the respira- 
tory canal, to some extent. Ifmercury is debilitated in 
the 7th house it indicates some trouble in the private 
parts of the body ofthe native. If Venus is debilitated 
in the 12th house of the horoscope it indicates slight trou- 
ble in the eyes and the feet of the native concerned. 
Similarly if Mars lord of the scorpio ascendant is debili- 
tated in the 9th house it indicates the existance of disease 
or trouble in the region of the hips. Saturn lord of the Cap- 
tricorn lagna debilitated in the 4th house of a birth chart 
indicates trouble in the 4th part of the body of the native 
concerned ie in his chest. Jupitor if debilitated in the 


71 


second house as the lord of the lagna would indicate some 
trouble in the region of the face. Saturn lord of the 
acquarius ascendant debilitated in the thir3 house indi- 
cates the trouble in the third part of the Kalapurusha 
ie in the respiratory canal etc. Jupitor if situated in its 
debilitation sign Capricorn in the II th house, as the lord 
of the Kalapurusha ie. in the legs. The trouble is not 
much since by its location in the 1 lthhousejupitor gets 
considerable strength. 

(25) Longivity and the Lagna. Factors relevant to lon- 
givity of man or woman &ré:—thé lord of the lagna, 
Moon, Sun, Saturn, the 3rd and the 8th house and their 
lords. If these factors are strong the body becomes strong 
and the yoga results in good longivity. The ascendant 
is the house that is relevant to the consideration of lon- 
givity. Since longivity and death are intimately linked 
to each other, the lagna is also the indicator of death and 
its manner. The type of planet or planets that may be 
found influencing the lagna and it's lord would indicate 
the manner or mode of the death of the person. For 
example if Mars happens to be the planet that influences 
the Jagna and its lord to the exclusion of other influences 
then it would indicate that the death of the person will 
take place through fire, or accidental injury etc. The 
question as to whether the death would be by fire or by 
assassination should thereafter be decided. In this con- 
nection please see further details in the horoscope No: 24 
and our book Vocational Astrology. As a further illustra- 
tion it may be noted that if Jupitor, Mars and Sun are all 
located in the 7th house in pisces the man METS a watery 
grave. The reason for death through water is that the in- 
fluence ofall these three planets on the lagna is Watery 
in nature. 


72 


Sun being the lord of the 12th house becomes watery 
in nature. (Jupitor’s Mool trikin sign will fall in the 4th 
house and as such it will give the effects of that house 
which is a watery house. Mars is the lord of the 8th 
house and is, therefore, to be trasted as a watery planet. 
We thus see that the influence exerted on the lagna by all 
the three Planet§ is watery in nature. That is why a 
watery grave is indicated for the native. In this connec- 
tion horoscope no: 24 and our book “MEDICAL 
ASTROLOGY" way be consulted for further details. 


26) Vocation and the lagna. The ascendant or the lagna 
is the essence of the whole horoscops. It represents both 
the wealth and the earner of that wealth. See the nature 
Ofthe influence being felt by (a) the lagna, (hh) the lord 
ofthe lagna, (c) the chandra lagna, (d) the lord 6Ethe 
chandra lagna (e) The Surya lagna (f) The lord of the 
Surya lagna, through . the association, aspect etc of the 
planets. Count the number of times each planet influen- 
ces Elid §¥ lagna factors listed above. The planet that 
has the greatest number of influences will be called the 
"DOMINANT" planet. Now see or determine the planet 
that influences the most this EDOMINANT 4 planet. Let 
us call this as the final planet. The traits common bet- 
wee m the -DOMINANT" planet and the "FINAL" 
planet would determine the nature of the vocation follo- 
wed by the native. Please see the horoscopes No: 16, C7} For 
example ifthe "DOMINANT" planet is Sun and Sun is 
in turn aspected by Jupitor lord of the 9th or the 10th 
hdise!l the man will be a government servant, because sun 
is ERulerd and Jupitor is the significator for "GOVERN- 
MENTAL FAVOUR". Besides both Ehé StH and the 10th 
houses are indicative of Government. Hence the trait of 
being a Government official is common to both. Fora 


detailed study of the question please study our book 


"VOCATIONAL ASTROLOGY." 
§ MO 
9 
RA 


Fig. No. 16 Fig. No. 17 
(27) Wealth and the "LAGNADHI" Yoga. The follo- 
wing is the. shloka relating to the "CHANDRADHI 
YOGA" appearing in "SARAVALI" :— 


"Shashtam dynam athashtamam = shishargo 
Praptah Samastah shubhah Kruranam Yadi Gov 
hare na Patitah Bhanu Alayat Durtah Bhoopah 
Prabhavet sa yasya Jaldhe velanvanantodbhavai 
sena Matta Karilmdra dan Salilam Bhringai muhr 
Peeyate.7 
Translation 

If all the benefic planets occupy the 6th, 8th, and the 
7th house from the moon, and these benefics are not in- 
fluenced by malefic planets, and they are also not in the 
Micinity of Sun, then the person is a mighty king with 
mighty army ete: Why is this "CHANDRADHI" yoga 
extolled so much? The reason is that the Moon is treated 
as Lagna ie affluence etc. When the Moon is strong the 


74 


lagna should be considered strong ipso facto., and a 
strong lagna gives affluence as already stated. In the 
opinion of some people the location of benefic planets in 
the bad houses changes their effect from bad to good. 
We do not agree with this view. In our view thé ratio- 
nale behind the good effects of this yoga is that the 
position of the benefic planets is conducive to the strength 
of moon. It is very easy to see that the benefic planets 
situated in the 7th house from the moon will fully aspect 
the moon and will {therefore} strengthen it as a lagna. 
Similarly the planet that is situated in the 6th house from 
the moon will throw it's benefic influence on the 12th 
house from the moon and the third benefic planet situa- 
ted in the 8th house from Moon will throw it's benefic 
influence on the 2nd house from Moon, with the result 
that moon will have benefic influence not only directly 
over it but also on each side of it. Moon will thus be 
benefited by benefic influence in more than one way, 
thereby giving excellent results in regard to finances etc 
for which the Moon or th? lagna stands. The above 
rationale equally applies to the lagna ie when _ the 
lagna has benefic planets in the 6th, 7th and 8th from it, 
it will also get boosted by that benefic influence in the 
manner already stated and will confer wealth etc for 
which it stands. It needs not much thought to see that 
if the planets situated in 6th, 7th and 8th houses from the 
Moon or the lagna are weak in any way, by the associa- 
tion or aspect of malefic planets or by being eclipsed by 
the Sun or by being in "ATICHAR" motion in the 
vicinity of the Sun, their power to throw good influence 
on the Moon or the lagna as the case may be will be 
much reduced with the result that the lagna or the moon 
will fail to give full results of the yoga under study. 
"LAGNADHI" yoga as the conferer of good financial 


75 


benefits has also been mentioned by the author of the book 
"SARAVALI" as under :- 


* LaGnat Shasht Mad Ash tame Yadi Shubham 
Papai Na Yuktekshitah Mantri Danda Pati Kshiter- 
adhipati Streenam Bahunam Pati Deerghayu Gad 
Varjito Gat Bhayo Lagnadhi Yoge Bhavet Sat Sheelo 
Yavanadhiraj Kathiteo Jatah Puman Saukhya 
Bhak.2 


Zyfanslationl When natural benefics are situated in 
the 6th 7th and 8th house from the lagna, and _ these 
benefics are neither associated with nor under the aspect 
of malefic planets then the person involved becomes, a 
minister, a Judge or a king, depending on the strength 
of the benefic planets. The person born in such a yoga 
is very rich, of good character and lives in luxury and 
comfort, so says the great SYAVANA’’. (See horoscope 
no. 18) 


(28) WfahaiDhana Toga and the Lagna. The lord of the 
lagna represents the "SELF" of man and is conducive to 


76 


the acquisition of the things concerning the house in 
which it may be situated, but more so is the case when 
there is an exchange between the lord of the lagna and 
that of the 2nd house. The rationale behind the excel- 
lence of this yoga lies in the fact that both the lagna and 
the second house stand for wealth. Under the principle 
of similarity, the link between the two brings about afflu- 
ence. The exchange referred to above constitutes 
= MAHA DHANA" Yoga. In this connection the author 
ofthe celébratéd Work "SARVARTHA CHINTAMANI" 
avers :- 


“Laeneshe Dhan  Rashisthe Dhaneshe Labha 
Rashig: Labheshe Vapi Lagnasthe Bahu Nidhyadi- 
kam Bhavet.” 


Translation. If the lord of the first house is situated 
in the second house and the lord of the second house is 
situated in the I1th house or the lord of the 11th house 
is situated in the first house one comes across a great 
treasure i.e. becomes very rich. The rationale here again 
is the principle of similarity, the lord of the 2nd, 11th or 
the 1st all stand for wealth in some shape or the other 
and as such the mutual link of these wealth denoting 
factors causes affluence. 


(29) Honour and the Ist House. The factors constitu- 
ting "HONOUR" are the Ist house, the 10th house, the 
planet sunetc. If, therefore, the lagnas and their lords 
along with Sun and the 10th house and its lord are all 
strong and under the influence of benefics, the native 
becomes renowned in the world. The idea is that the 
lagna and it's lord are also a necessary factor in the 
acquisition of honour and fame. 


77 


(30) Ruling powers and the lagna. Win any horoscope 
the lord of the lagna aspects the lagna, the lord of the 
sign occupied by the Moon aspects the sign in which 
Moon is located, and the lord of the sign occupied by the 
Sun aspects the sign occupied by the Sun, then the per- 
son born in such a yoga is lucky indeed. Such a person 
becomes a great leader of men in the political and other 
fields, and wields much power in addition to being very 
rich financially. The rationale in this yoga les in the 
fact that any house aspected by it's own lord gets streng- 
thened very much and since in the cases under considera- 
tion the lagnas get strengthened it is but reasonable that 
the traits of the lagnas i.e. riches and power should be 
had in abundance by the native. (See horoscope no. 19) 


ae 


NSN 


G1) Nature of Alan andthe Lagna. A man's nature 
or character is generally studied by the nature of the in- 
fluence being received by the fourth house, it's lord and 
the Moon—the significator of "MIND". But a_ considera- 
tion of the nature of influence being received by the lagna 
ie. the Ist house is also of equal importance, for the lagna 


Fig. No. 19 


fi) 


being the Ist house represents the brain of man. It also 
stands for the man as a whole. It is, therefore, clear that 
a study of lagna is also vital to the consideration of the 
question of nature of man. Thus if the lagna and _ its 
lord are under the aspect etc. of benefic planets tne man 
exhibits good character, if under malefic influence, he 
shows a bad character. In this connection the author of 
“SARVARTHA CHINTAMANI" has opined :- 


“Lagne Gurau Danav Pujiten Yukte Yada Tasya 
Vishudha Chittam.’ 


Translation. When the lagna is conjoined to Jupitor 
and Venus the native has a clean mind. The idea of 
course is that the lagna should be under their influence. 
For example, we find that in the horoscope of Swami Ram 
Tirtha both Jupitor and Venus are located in the sign 
Virgo in the 7th house 3nd are as such both fully influ- 
encing the lagna, and the lord of the lagna too is under 
the benefic influence of Venus. This shows the purity and 
the excellence of the mind and individuality of the great 
Param Hamsa: In the same context but in the contrary 
direction the author of DEVA KERALAM" has 
stated :- 


"Lagne Rahu Yute Chandre Moorkha Prakriti 
Kop Van." 


Translation. If Rahu and Moon are located in the 
lagna the native becomes foolish and full of anger. It 
will be remembered that Rahu like Saturn is "DARK" 
and foolish, In the case under discussion this foolish 
planet will influence so many factors standing for the 
mind. Moon as the significator of mind will be under it's 


79 


influence. Moon again will be under its influence as a 
lagna and lastly the lagna as such will also be under the 
influence of Rahu. 


(32) Violence and the Lagna: The lagna stands for the 
selfofman. It is, therefore, clear that if it is weak and 
under the influence of planets that denote violence, the 
self Will be prone to violence, and in extreme cases one 
may turn out to be a murderer. In Sycha case the party 
represented by the house in which the other sign ‘ofthe 
lagna falls may be murdered at the hands of the native. 
(For example please Sec horoscope pio: 2:0} 


Fig. Ne. 20) 


(33) Treatment of others and the lagna. Ifthe lord of 
ie. lagna denoting factors are natural benefic planets and 
ate at the same time sirong then the native is prone to be 
service ful to others and of a self denying and philinthropic 
nature. On the other hand, if the said factors are natural 
malefic planets and are weak the native proves to be sel- 
fish, rogue and harmful to others. 


80 


(34) Planets in the I Oth house from the lagna, When a 
planet occupies the 10tn house it always throws it's influ- 
ence on the lagna., even ifthe planet in the 10th house 
may not be fully aspecting the lagna in accordance with 
the known rules of astrology. It follows from the rule that 
when Jupitor or any other benefice planet is located in the 
10th house of a horoscope, the lagna is benefitted thereby. 
The result of this benefit is that longivity, health] wealth 
etc=trait$ of the lagna, are boosted. This is the rationale 
behind the "KARAKA-KHYA” YOGA, where exhalted 
planets or planets in dignity are in kendras from one 
another and give very nice results! sae horoscope no. 21 


Fig. No. 21 


(35) Cordial relations etc. and the lagna, A planet situ- 
ated favourably i.e. in houses second, fourth, fifth, seventh 
nineth, tenth, eleventh from the lagna or the lord of the 
wena; has cordial relations with the native. On the 
other hand, a planet that is situated in the rest of the 
houses from the lagna, particularly if it is placed 6th, 8th 
or 12th from the lagna or the lord of the lagna, indicates 
enmity between the native and the party represented by 
the planet. For example, ifthere is a female nativity with 
taurus as it's lagna and Venus is situated in the 6th, 8th 
or the 12th house from both the plan et Mars (Lord ofthe 


81 


7th house) and from Jupitor (The significator of the 
husband) then the woman concerned will be deadly 
against her husband. Che can even take his life. While 
examining the question of "cordiality" between the boy 
and the girl, the above noted point should also be taken 
into consideration along with the other stipulated points. 


(36) Effect of fire and the lagna. The 1st, 5th and the 
9th houses in any horoscope should be taken as "FIRY" 
houses. If a "FIRY" planet such as Mars, Sun or Ketu 
is occupying the lagna, then the lord of the lagna will all 
the more represent "FIRE". Even in cases where the 
lord of any of these houses is a watery planet such as 
Venus, it will still give the results as a "FIRY" planet. 
Thus the lord of the above noted houses will carry their 
"FIRY" effects to the house in which they are situated, 
particularly when such planets are in debilation and 
are otherwise weak. For example, if in a nativity 
Mars Sun and Mercury occupy cancer in the Lagna, 
and the lord of the lagna i.e. Moon ooccupies the 5th 
house, then the native gets his belly burnt through 
"FIRE". 


(37) Lagna as significator of things at the start. If the 
lagna, it's lord, the Chandra lagna, the lord of the sign 
occupied by chandra, the Surya lagna and the lord of 
the sign occupied by the Sun have on them :- 


(a) The influence, by association or aspect, of 
"BRAHMIN" planets such as Guru (Jupitor) or Venus 
the man is born in a Brahmin family. 


(b) Ifthe preponderating influence is of the "KSHA- 
TRIYA”: planets j.e. Mars and Sun, the man is born in a 
“KSHATRIYA" family. 


82 


(c) If the preponderating influence is of Mercury 
and Moon—the person concerned is born in a ‘‘VAISH- 
YA" family. 


(d) Ifthe preponderating influence is of Saturn the 
person belongs to a "SHUDRA" family. 


(e) Ifthe preponderating influence is of Rahu or of 
the lord of the sign occupied by Rahu, then the person 
concerned is born in a family outside the fold of the 
HINDU community. That the planet Rahu_ represents 
casteless and classless society is also the opinion of the 
author of "SARVARTH CHINTAMANI" who, says :- 


"RAHU DHVAJABHYAM ATH Jati heenah. i.e. 
Rahu and Ketu are without Jati i.e. caste or class. 


Various Signs in the Ist House. 


If the lagna i.e. the first house contains the sign Aries, 
the person born has the traits and characteristics of the 
planet Mars. The native has active habits and has a fair 
amount of anger in him. Since in this case the planet 
Mars assumes the lordship of both houses that represent 
"LONGIVITY", and death, it will indicate the native's 
mode of death through the nature of the planet or planets 
that may be influencing Mars. For the same reason the 
planet mars assumes great importance for longivity as 
well. In other words the stronger Mars is in the nativity 
the more long lived the native would be. Similarly if 
Mars is very weak it denotes that the native is not desti- 
ned to live long. The lordship of the 8th house by Mars 
makes the native prone to a sinful life unless Mars has the 
relieving aspect etc. of some benefic planet. Sinful life is 


83 


more likely if Mars has influence on the 4th house and it's 
lord as well. 


(38) Taurus Ascendant. ‘The natives of this lagna are 
generally of handsome built, as Venus the beautiful be- 
comes the lord of the lagna. They are given to luxuri- 
ous living and have intimacy with people belonging to 
faiths other than the Hindus, as the other sign of the 
lagna falls in this case in the 6th house which is a house 
of others or foreigners. Such people are also prone to 
accidents for the same reason, and particularly when 
Mars and Jupitor are also influencing Venus (Mars is 
significator bfinjuries and Jupitor for Tarus lagna assum- 
es violent role because of it's lordship over the 11th house. 
People with this ascendant, though fond ofa luxurious 
life are capable of working very hard like a bull once 
they set their mind on work. 


(39) Gemini Ascendant. People with Gemini as their 
ascendant are generally of an intellectual bent of mind 
unless Mercury in their horoscope is very weak. If 
Mercury of such people is under the seperative influence 
of such planets as Saturn, Rahu or Sun, they are sepera- 
ted from their country or place of birth and have to live 
away from it most of their life. If Moon too is under the 
seperative influence the mother of such people is generally 
short lived. If the horoscope belongs to a govt. servant, 
his life is subject to very frequent transfers from station to 
station. Ifthere is the association of Mercury and Moon 
in the 4th house and there is no malefic influence on these 
planets the person takes part in politics and public affairs 
In the case of this ascendant, if Mercury Moon and Venus 
are all under malefic influence, there is every possibility 
of the native turning mad, for in that event all the 


84 


relative factors concerned in lunacy vi&. the lord of the 
lagna, the lord of the 5th house, Mercury and Moon are 
all effected. If this lagna together with the planet 
Mercury is afflicted by malefics such as Mars then the 
younger brothers of the mother of the native are short 
lived for the reason that the planet Mercury is the signi- 
ficator of uncles and is also the lord of the 8th house from 
the 6th==the house of uncles and as such represents their 
longivity. For people born in this lagna Mars becomes 
the lord of the 6th house which is a house of injury and 
violence. Mars also becomes the lord of the IIth house 
which being 6th to 6th (BHAVAT BHAVAM) also stands 
for injuries and violence. Mars for such people is, as it 
were, saturated with violence. If, therefore, such a Mars 
is located in Gemini in the lagna and also aspects Moon 
then the mind of the native becomes very violent indeed. 
Such a man may become a thief, a murderer or a dacoit. 
The situation of Mars in the lagna in such cases indicates 
the great liklihood of the man receiving an injury in the 
head, particularly when Mercury too is afflicted by Mars. 
If Ketu joins Mars it is evident that the injury will be 
more serious. 


(40) Cancer Ascendant. Since the lordship of this lagna 
goes to Moon-—a planet that is like mother to all and 
enemy to none, the natives of this ascendant are generally 
of mild and gentle nature. They are well wishers of all} 
enemies to none. They are also fond of truth and avoid 
falsehood as for as is practicable for them to do so. They 
generally act in haste, because Moon the lord of the lagna 
is a fast moving planet. Such people are prone to alter 
their decisions if put under pressure, like the moon who 
changes its phases so often. | Such people are fond of the 
subject denoted by the house in which the Moon is 


85 


located, for Moon in their case represents the mind par 
excellence. For example, if Moon is located in the 2nd 
house they are fond of the family and their bank balance, 
if located i@ the 3rd house they are fond of their brothers 
and friends. If it occupies the 4th house they are fond 
of their motherland, their mother, the masses in general 
etc. If Moon is located in the 6th house such people are 
fond of the labour class and of the people belonging to 
faiths Othéi than the Hindu faith. If it is in the 7th 
house, they are fond of their wife and the partners in 
business. If it is located in the 8th house, they are fond 
of adventure and sinful deeds. I&it is located in the 9th 
house they are fond of long inland travels, religion, and 
high thoughts. I£ it is located in the {0th house they 
become fond of righteous deeds and people placed in 
high position. If moon is located in the 11th house they 
are very much devoted to the ideal they hold dear to 
their heart. Lastly ifthe Moon is located in the 12th 
house they become fond of sleep, voracious reading and 
high &xpenditire 


(41) Leo Ascendant. The lord of the lagna becomes 
the Sun. Such persons develope the traits and the 
qualities of Sun. Ifthe Sun is strong in the horoscope, 
such people become brave, influential, endowed with 
ruling powers, strong of heart and strong of bones. On 
the other hand, if their Sun is weak and afflicted by 
malefic influence, then the persons are put to much dis- 
honour in life, have trouble in their eyes, are likely to 
suffer from heart trouble and troubles of the belly and 
are always opposed to the government of the day. 


(42) Virgo Ascendant. Ifthe people born in this ascen- 
dant have their Mercury strong, they are very wise, 


86 


honoured, with attractive appearance, with some practical 
art, fond of music etc. If on the other hand their Mercury 
is weak, they suffer from diseases of the belly and the 
intestines, are afflicted with skin troubles and _ suffer 
physically in early life. 


(43) Libra Ascendant. This is one of the best lagnas to 
possess. The reason therefor is that the natural malefic 
planets like saturn become the best friends of the lagna in 
addition to the natural benefic planets who are of course 
already disposed to do good. The natives of this lagna 
are generally handsome, luxury loving and given to vice. 
On the other hand, if Venus the lord of this lagna is very 
strong and is under the influence of Jupitor and Mercury, 
the natives of this lagna are very long lived, fond of truth 
and devoted to religion. If Venus is heavily afflicted 
they are short lived for the obvious reason that Venus 
who is lord of the lagna as well as the 8th house repre. 
sents "LONGIVITY" par excellence and as such it's 
affliction naturally detracts from "LONGIVITY". The 
nature of the influence on Venus in such cases indicates 
the mode of death. For example ifthe 1st and 8th houses 
and Venus are under the influence of Mars, death is by 
accident or injury, such as by fire, by fall or by bullet. 


(44) Scorpio Ascendant. The natives of this ascendant 
are generally of aggressive nature, self willed, black marke- 
teers and friend of people in the military and police. If 
such people have their Mars strong, they are victorious 
over their enemies. If Mars and Saturn throw their 
combined influence on the representative factors in the 
horoscope, such people are very much adversely disposed 
to and even act cruelly towards the party represented by 
these factors. For example, if both Mars and saturn 


87 


influence the 7th house and Venus they treat their wife 
with cruelty. 


(45) Sagittarious Ascendant. These people possess a 
noble heart. They are philanthropic in nature, and have 
contacts with the general public. They are religious 
minded, wise and patient people. IfJupitor is afflicted 
in their birth chart, they suffer from diseases of the liver, 
spleen and the digestive system. They also suffer at the 
hands of the public to whose cause they do harm by their 
activities. 


(46) Capricorn Ascendant. Such people are generally of 
low taste, unless Saturn or the Ascendant has the relieving 
aspect etc. of benefics like Jupitor. They are also generally 
harsh of speech. They rise in life slowly. If saturn is 
strong they are Iong lived. They are fond of people in 
the lower strata of society, and often gain from land 
farming etc. 


(47) Acquarius Ascendant. Such people are spend thrift, 
rather mean and selfish, unless Saturn has good influence 
on it, in which case they are very wise, long lived, wealthy, 
and have much property. The planet Jupitor in the 
birth chart of such people is of special significance, 
because it has the lordship of two houses of finance viz the 
2nd and the Lith house, and is himself the significator of 
finance. If, therefore, Jupitor aspects any house and _ it's 
lord that house is bound to get it's prospects enhanced. 
If, for example, it aspects the 4th house and it's lord, it is 
instrumental in making the person rich in landed properly, 
conveyance etc. From the angle of the lordship of Jupitor, 
the people born in this ascendant can be said to be lucky. 
People born in this lagna have Saturn as the lord of the 


house that stands for the self viz ofthe Ist house, and 
Mars becomes the lord of the 3rd house which again 
robi< + nts the deliberate "SELF" ofman. Thus these 
planets represent the deliberate self of the native—a 
self hat is prone to act inimically towards the party which 
may be exposed to their combined influence in a represen- 
tative manner. For example, if they afflict the 11th 
house and Jupitor, the native is deadly opposed to his 
elder brothers. If they aspect the 7th house and Venus 
the native is very cruel to his wife. Such influences 
should always be taken into account during the hourse of 
matching of the horoscopes of the boys and girls for the 
purposes ofmarriage. If Mars and Saturn afflict the 5th 
house and it's lord, such people deliberately take steps to 
avoid having progeny. They are, in other words, 
“VOTARIES" of family planning. Similarly if the two 
planets are influencing the 8th house and it.s lord, they 
are out to kill themselves, ie. they are prone to commit 
suicide. 


451 Pisces <lscendant. People with this lagna are 
generally wealthy,' honourable, famous, self made, and 
prone to do good to others. They earn respect from the 
government of the day. This is when Jupitor is strong. 
IfJupitor is afflicted along with the 10th house and it's 
lord, such people are dishonoured by the government 
and suffer at the hands of government officials. They 
oppose the govt. of the clay. Such people suffer from 
stu mat li troubles and have occasional trouble in the region 
of their feet. 


(49) While considering lagna, the chandra lagna and 
the Surya lagna should not be over looked. Just asa 
strong lagna is instrumental in conferring affluence, power 


89 


and longivity, in the same manner a strong chandra lagna 
and Surya lagna are also instrumental in making the 
native long lived wealthy influential etc. That is the 
reason why the various "ADHI" yogas are effective in 
conferring affluence etc. 


(5) An "ADHI" yoga is formed when in the 6th, 7th 
and the 8th house from any of these three lagnas, then: 
are natural benefic planets. The rational behind the good 
effects of this yoga is that the lagna etc. are not only fully 
aspected by benefic planet, but there is also cross benefic 
influence on either side of the lagna. The planet in the 
6th house will aspect the 12th from the lagna concerned 
while the one situated in the 8th will throw its good 
influence on the 2nd place from the lagna involved. It 
should, however, be noted that the natural benefics in the 
6th, 7th and 8th houses should themselves be strong, in 
order to give best results. The stronger they are the 
stronger will be the benefic influence on the lagna con- 
cerned, and the greater will be the good results of that 
influence. That is why the author of "SA RAVALI" 
has imposed the condition that the planets in the 6th, 
7th and 8th from Lagna or the Moon should be away 
from the Sun (i.e. should not be weak). 


90 


The second house 


(1) Just as the 4th house represents the house of a 
man in which he lives or in which his body generally 
remains, in the same manner the second house being 4th 
from the 11th is the place where the income denoted by 
the 11th house is deposited. Hence the 2nd house repre- 
sents the bank, the treasury or the accummulated wealth. 

(2) Early age and the 2nd house. The first house has 
priority over all other houses from the point of view 
of the order in time. Hence it represents the most early 
part of one ’s life ie infancy. On the same anology the 
second house represents the period of childhood and boy- 
hood, as it follows immediately the first house. Thus all 
problems relating to the childhood and boyhood, ie events 
occurring in that age should be cosidered from the second 
house. "Education" is started in and is continued for 
the most partin boyhood. Hence the extent of the aca- 
demic career—the nature of education and it's extent—all 
these questions should be decided after examining the 2nd 
house and it's lord. If there is on the second 
house and it's lord seperative influence of sun Saturn or 
Rahu,—the native is seperated from the family in boy- 
hood and has to prosecute his studies in some place away 
from his parents. Due to such seperative influence he may 
develope the habit of a truent. 


91 


(3) Handsomeness and the 2nd house. Being first in order, 
the first house represents the head in the body. Second 
in order is Face. Hence the second house represents a 
man's face. which is an index to his handsomeness. If 
the lord of the second house is Mercury or Venus and is 
strong and aspected by benefic planets, the native has an 
attractive face, is impressive and is otherwise hand- 
some. In regard ¢o this quality of Venus the author of 
Devakeralam writes: —"SHUKRO SHUBHAM BAI.AM 
RUPAM RAJYOGYA RAJYAPRIY AH" 


Translation:—Venus is a benefic, full of strength, good 
looking; is charming and is with power and affluence. 
Since handsomeness is generally judged from the face it is 
clear that Venus as lord of the second house strong and 
well aspected will make a native very handsome. Mer- 
cury is also a good looking planet. It is known as 
"KUMAR" ie boy and all boys have a boyish charm about 
them. 


That is why the author of SARAVALI has opined 
‘HRISHTO MADHYAM RUPVAN- SUNIPUNAM" 
Mercury is happy-go-lucky, middling, handsome and 
clever. That is why when Mercury is strong and well 
aspected as lord of the second house, it also gives hand- 
someness to the face. 


(4) Defective speech and the second house. Speech has 
"MOUTH" as it's main instrument of expression. If 
Mourcury and Jupitor (Significators ofspeech) along with 
the lord of the second house, are in weak position any- 
where in the horoscope, by being in a bad house, afflicted 
and by being in association with or under the aspect of 
malefics, the speech ofthe native is defective. If these 


92 


factors of speech are suffering under the exclusive influence 
of Saturn and Rahu, one may even lose the power of 
speech. Jupitor like Mercury is the significator of speech. 
Jupitor is intimately linked to lawyers who earn their 
living by "SPEECH". In regard to the quality of speech of 
the planet Jupitor, the author of "SARVARTHA" 
CHINTAMANI" has said ‘VAK STHANPE DEV 
PUROHITEN YUKTE YADA NASH GATE ATRA 
MOOKAH." 


TRANSLATION:—Lordof second together with 
Jupitor in 8th makes one dumb. If the lord of the second 
house and Jupitor are both in the second house,——all these 
three planets are strong, the native developes good powers 
of giving sermons, and lectures and also of taking part in 
debates. As already stated Mercury and Jupitor are signi- 
ficators of speech. If the lord of the second house, Saturn 
and the lord of the 6th house are together in Gemini, one 
speaks very little. Ifin addition Mercury and the lord of 
the 5th house are also afflicted one is unable to speak. 


(5) Riches and the second house. If the 2nd house con- 
tains a natural benefic planet in it's own sign alongwith 
the shadowy planet Ketu, the native becomes very rich. 
For not only the benefic planet in dignity in the house of 
wealth denotes abundance of wealth. the association of 
Ketu with that benefic heightens the effect. "KETU" 
literally means FLAG”—a symbol of height and being a 
shadowy planet boosts still further the good effects of the 
benefic planet in dignity. 


(6) Music and the "Second house. Ifthe lord of the 
second house and the 5th house and Venus are mutually 
linked, by association, aspect, exchange etc, and are 
strong, a yoga for musical ability is created. The reason 


93 


is that the lord of the 2nd and the 5th house both repre- 
sent speech, and the association with them of the cultured, 
sublimating, refined planet Venus, makes that speech 
musical in character. 


(7) Blindness and the second house. IfSun or the Moon 
is located in an inimical sign and in weak position in the 
second house and is aspected by Mars and or Ketu, the 
yoga brings about blindness. The reason is that the second 
house, Sun and the Moon all represent the eyes and their 
affliction at the hands of such malefics as Mars and Ketu 
will naturally result in disease to or loss of eyes. 


See horoscope No. 22 


SV 


Fig. No. 22 t | 


aN 


(8) S4anyas and the second house. The second house re- 
presents both wealth and the "FAMILY" Hence when 
along with the requisite affiction of the 4th and the 12th 
houses and their lords, there is the seperative influence of 
Sun, Rahu and Saturn and the lord ofthe 12th house, on 
the second house and it's lord, one is seperated from 
his family in order to lead a life ofa Sanyasin. For sepera- 
tion from or the forsaking of wealth; family, home and 


94 


luxuries is after all what constitutes "SANYAS", at least 
in it's outward form. See horoscope No. 23 


Fig. No. 23 


(9) Death Period and the second house. According to the 
principle of “BHAVAT BHAVAM” the house 8th to 
the 8th acts as the 8th house ie as the house of longivity. 
Again according to the general principle that the 12th 
from any house is the negation of the latter, the second 
house which is 12th from the 3rd would be the negation 
ofthe 3rd house ie the negation oflife. In other words 
the 2nd house would represent death and death inflicting 
powers. That is why the second house is called the 
"MARAKA" house. and it’s lord "MARKESHA" ie the 
"KILLER" When there is the ruling period of the lord 
of the second house and the sub ruling period of the lord 
of 7th, 8th or 12th houses, ie of other house lords destruc- 
tive of longivity one meets his death, particularly when 
the period running constitutes long middle or short as pro- 
mised on the whole by the planetary position in the horo- 
scope and the lords of the main and the sub ruling periods 
are weak and afflicted. If they are not so the period only 
causes disease or trouble but not death. 


95 


(10) Value and the second house. The lord of the house 
of wealth ie the second denotes "WEALTH". Under the 
principle of symbology it therefore represents EVALUE’! 
in general also. If Jupitor the significator of wealth him- 
self becomes the lord Ofithe second house, he naturally 
represents "VALUE" toa much more extent. Again if 
Jupitor lord of the second house becomes also the lord ol 
the house of gains (11)-as in the case of acquarius nativity, 
it represents "VALUE" par excellence. Naturally, there- 
fore, ifany house receives the "VALUABLE" aspect of 
such a Jupitor, it becomes most valuable in it's traits and 


characteristics. Ifmore than one such factors féprésenting 
one and the same trait receives the aspect 6Bfsuch a valu- 
able Jupitor, it is easy to see that the Valtie of such factors 
would be boosted to the highest degree. For example if 
the ascendant be acquarius, and Jupitor and Venus are 
both located in the 10th house, the native will have much 
property (See horoscope No: 36). Similarly if the ascen- 
dant is scorpio and Jupitor aspects the Suii the native 
engages in big business and if it aspects Venus in the 7th 


house one gets very rich in-laws. 


(11) Adoption @nd the second house. TYf£the lord of the 
11th and the 6th houses and Rahu are fully influencing 
the second house and it's lord by association or aspect, 
the yoga indicates that he would be adopted as Son by 
someone. The reason is that Rahu, the lord Of thé 6th 
house andthe lord Ofthe Ith house all stand for" For- 
eign" influences, which when received by "FAMILY" will 
make him have a foreign family as his family ie he would 
be adopted. 


(12) Ruling Powers and the Second House. In defining 
the "A KHANDA SAMRAJYA" Yoga the astrological 


96 


texts lay down that the yoga is constituted when even 
one of the lords of the Ist, 2nd or the 10th house happens 
to be in kendra from the Moon and when Jupitor too as 
the lord cfthe 2nd and the 11th, or 2nd and 5this in 
kendra from Moon. It would be seen from this definition 
that the 2nd house has been considered pari-passu with the 
10th house in the matter of the Acquisition of ruling 
powers. Wealth being a strong factor for power, it is 
little wonder if the 2nd house is conneted in astrology to 
the acquisition of ruling powers. The author of "SAR- 
VARTHA CHINTAMANI" has opined in this connec- 
tion :- 


Swocha Sthite Vitta Pattau Cha Kendre Simha- 
san Praptim Udaharanti". 


s 
Translation. WUfthe lord of the 2nd house is in kendra 
and occupying it's sign of exhaltation, one acquires ruling 
powers. 


(13) Education and the Second House. In the opinion of 
the author of :'SARVARTHA CHINTAMANI" | the 
second house represents "education". He has said :- 


SKautumbat Bhartavyan Mukhan Cha Dakshin 
Akshi Poorvarthan Vidya Bhukti Visheshan Dasan 
Mitrani Cha Pravadet." 


Tronslation! From the second house should be seen 
affairs relating to the family, and to those one has taken 
under ones protection, those relating to "mouth", the 
right eye, accummulated wealth, education, eating, 
servants and friends. The author of "UTTAR KALA- 
MRIT= too holds the openion that education should be 


97 


seen and examined from the second house. He _ has 
averred :- 


Vidya Swarna Surupya, Dhanya, Vinaya, Nasa, 
Manasthairyakam.”; 


Translation. Education, gold, silver, grains, politeness, 
(in speech), nostrils and patience of the mind should all 
be examined from the second house. 


Various Signs in the Second House 


Aries. If there is the sign Aries in the second house, 
the lord of the second house becomes the lord of the 9th 
house as well. If mars is strong in the horoscope the 
native gets wealth beyond his expectations. The officials, 
of the govt are also particularly helpful to him, in his 
acquisition of wealth. On the contrary if Mars is Weak, 
in association with or under the aspect of malefic planets, 
the native loses wealth more as ordained by fate than can 
be justified by the circumstances of his case. His wealth 
is lost unexpectedly. If the wife of the native has a 
younger brother, that younger brother (9th house) is 
instrumental to the loss of his wealth. If Mars is in it's 
sign of debilitation and_ there is no benefic influence on 
the second house and Mars, the elder brother of the 
mother of the native is short lived, for the 2nd house 
being {Ith from the 4th represents the elder brother of 
the mother of the native. 


(2) Taurus in the Second House. If taurus is in the 
second house, and Venus is strong, one gains financially 
to a considerable extent from business or trade as well as 
from the side of his in-laws. If Venus is weak and is 


98 


situated in the 6th or 8th house it gives much _ physical 
trouble in it's dasha or in it's sub-ruling period, as it then 
acts as "MARAKA". If Venus is strong one has an 
attractive face, for Venus as the lord of the second house 
doubly represents the face, firstly as the lord of the second 
house, and then as the significator of handsomeness. If 
Venus is heavily afflicted, the native has a short lived 
wife, for the reason, that Venus the significator of "WIFE" 
has himself the lordship of the two houses that represent 
the longivity of wife, viz the 7th house and the house 
8th from 7th (i.e. second). The mode of death of wife 
should, in such cases be determined from the nature 
of the influence being exerted on Venus and on the longi- 
vity houses of wife? (second and seventh). 


(3) Gemini in the Second House. If the sign Gemini is 
in the second house, and if Murcury is strong, the native 
becomes an orator, for the reason that Mercury the signi- 
ficator of speech has in this case become himself the lord 
of the two houses of speech viz of the second and the fifth 
and as such represents "speech" in the fullest measure 
and by being in strength boosts the power of speech to 
the fullest extent. If Mercury and Venus are together 
and are afflicted by the aspect etc. of such planets as Mars 
and Ketu, the first wife of the native does not live long! 
The reason is clear. In this case, both Venus the signifi- 
cator of wife and Mercury the lord of the 8th house from 
that of the wife (7th) suffer and brings about the undesi- 
red effect (see horoscope No. 24). If the second house and 
it's lord is afflicted, by association or aspect, by Rahu 
and Mars, the native prosecutes his studies, for some time 
by living away from his parents in some hostel etc. during 
the period of his boyhood. The reason is that the 
second house represents the period of boyhood. The 


99 


Fig. No. 24 


OK 
eK 


affliction of the lord of the second house at the hands of 
the seperative planet Rahu and the malefic Mars naturally 
works to seperate the native from his "FAMILY" 7.e.. the 
parents, in the early age denoted by the second house. 


(4) Cancer in the Second House. Tf Moon as lord of the 
second house is strong, one gets riches and ruling powers, 
the second house being a house of "ruling powers" and 
Moon being a royal planet. The number of elder sisters 
to the mother of the native is considerable as the female 
planet Moon is strong as the lord of the second house 
which being 11th from the 4th represents that relation. 
If Moon is weak the native is poor and is opposed to 
his family. 


(5) Leo in the Second House. If Leo i in the second 
house and Sun is strong, one gets ruling powers as both 
the second house and Sun it’s lord would represent ruling 
powers. There is aring of "ROYAL" tone in the speech 
ofthe native. The native's mother gets a good number 
of elder brothers, Sun lord of the 11th house from that of 


100 


the mother being a male planet. If, on the other hand, 
the Sun is weak and afflicted, the native gets trouble in 
his eyes as both the second house and Sun represent the 
eyes. He is opposed to the family and also suffers at the 
hands of the government represented by both the second 
house and it's lord (Sun). 


(6) Virgo in th* Second House. If Virgo is in the second 
house, Mercury becomes the lord of two houses of finance. 
It also becomes a planet of "VALUE" and "PLENTY". 
The influence of Mercury in such a case on a house and 
it's lord will, therefore, enhance the value and _ prospects 
of that house and make it rich and of high quality. <A 
strong Mercury unafflicted gives much wealth. Sucha 
person earns through "interest" on deposits etc. for the 
yoga indicates income (11th house), through "finance" 
(2nd house). Such a person has many elder sisters to his 
mother, as Mercury a female planet becomes lord of the 
second house. On the contrary if Mercury is weak and 
afflicted, by malefics through association or aspect, the 
native (a) gets hindrances in his education in boyhood 
(b) gets loss of wealth in early age (c) remains for some 
time away from his parents during the educational period 
(d) gets defect in his speech (e) gets an ugly face. 


(7) Libra in the Second House. If Libra falls in the 
second house, Venus becomes the lord of the 9th house 
as well. Such a person gets financial wind falls. He is 
also benefitted financially through the favour of the govt: 
and it's officials. If Venus happens to be in Libra itself, 
along with Ketu, the yoga makes the native very rich, of 
cultured speech and of good features. 


(8) Scorpio in the Second House. \f scorpio falls in the 
second house, and Mars is strong, the native becomes 


101 


rich, has a long-living wife, is a man of prowess possesses 
logical speech, gains from his in-laws and is particularly 
happy in the period of his youth. Ifon the other hand, 
Mars is weak and afflicted, by malefic planets either by 
ass:, ciation or by aspect, the man's financial losses result 
from business and also as a result of the wrong advice etc. 
of his wife. His wife is short lived. The nature of 
influence being received by Mars should be carefully 
studied, in order to ascertain the mode of death of his 
wife. Such a person also suffers in his youth. 


(9) Sagittarius in the Second House. When Sagittarius 
falls in the second house, Jupitor assumes the lordship of 
the second and the 5th house. If Jupitor is strong one is 
benefitted financially through his sons, and his sons get 
much honour and respect in life. He is also a good 
orator. His speech is also sweet and wise. He gets high 
education. He generally earns through the use ofhis 
intellect. If on the other hand Jupitor is weak and 
afflicted by malefics, the native suffers much financially. 
In this financial loss of his, his son has also a hand. He 
has defective speech. 


(10) Capricorn in the Second House: If Capricorn falls in 
the second house, the native earns by the sweat of his 
brow and the use of his hands. If Saturn is strong he be- 
friends the V.I.P.’s. He benefits himself through his 
younger sisters. His friends also help him. His wife 
lives long. If, on the other hand, Saturn is weak and 
afflicted, he gets very little wealth. His wealth is lost 
through his younger brother or sister. His wife is short 
lived. 


(11) Acquarius in the Second House. 1 f acquarious falls 
in the second house the man has a harsh speech. He 


102 


earns by dint of his own labour. If saturn is strong he is 
wealthy and respected. His mother has a good number 
of elder sisters. His wife lives long. If Saturn is weak, 
he loses financially through his own fault and wrong 
judgement. His mother has death of elder sisters. 


(12) Pisces in the Second House. If the sign pisces falls 
in the second house, and Jupitor is strong, the native 
becomes very rich. Jupitor represents "Value" in such 
a case and boosts the life and financial prospects of the 
house etc. whom it aspects, and also makes it valuable. 
Jupitor in such a case indicates the existance of the elder 
brothers of the mother of the native. Because of the 
simultaneous lordship of the 11th house, the native earns 
through, rent, interest, shares etc. He is also benefitted 
financially from his elder brother. On the other hand if 
Jupitor is weak, and afflicted by malefics, by association 
or aspect, he loses much wealth in life, and he is at 
daggers drawn with his elder brothers. His mother loses 
her elder brothers. While dealing with the acquarius 
ascendant, the author of "Deva Keralam" has averred :- 


‘“SLabhe Shukre Dhane Jeeve Av Yog Shatairapi 
Dhanikah Keertiman Chaiva Rajdware Prasidhi- 
man”, 

Translation. If in a nativity with acquarius as the 
ascendant, Jupitor is in the second house and Venus in 
the IIth, then the man becomes rich inspite of any other 
bad yoga present in the horoscope, and will earn respect 
from the government. The reason is clear. Jupitor as a 
significator of wealth and as the lord of the house of 
wealth will be in dignity in the second house and Will be 
still further strengthened by the square aspect from the 
lith house of Venus, who it must be noted is "Yoga 
karaka" for the Acquarius ascendant. 


103 


The Third House 


(1) Seif and the third house. It is through the arms that 
man always gives practical shape to his feelings and desires. 
Arms are the means for the expression of "SELF". In other 
words the arms or the third house represents the "SELF" 
ofman. The lagna too represents the "SELF". When 
therefore, both the lord ofthe 3rd house and that of the 
lagna act together there is the fullest expression of the’self. 
In such cases the action denoted by the lord of the lagna 
and the Jorg ofthe 3rd house, indicates volition and ini- 
tiative on the part of the native. The native has to take 
full responsibility for his actions in such cases. (See 
horoscope no: 25). 


Fig. No. 25 


104 


(2) Suicide and the third house. When the lords of the 
third and the first houses, be they natural malefics or bene- 
fics, are linked by aspect or association, with the 8th 
house and it's lord, but neither the 8th house nor it's lord 
is under the influence of any other planet, the native 
commits suicide, for the planets influencing the 8th house 
and its lord denote the mode ofdeath. In this case the 
lord ofthe lagna and the 3rd house, both represent the 
self of the man, hence the death is at the hands of 
"SELF" (Suicide) (See horoscope No: 25) 


(3) Friendship and the 3rd house. The 3rd house and 
it's lord denote friends and friendship. The nature of the 
house or planet with which the lord of the 3rd house is 
situated, Will denote the type and nature of the friend 
that the native will have. For example ifthe lagna be 
leo, and there is exchange between the lord of the second 
and the third house ie. the lord of the second house is in 
the 3rd house and the lord of the 3rd house is in the 
second house, the native developes friendship with princes, 
aristocrats and the high-ups. The reason is that the 
second house being 5th from the 10th represents the 
princes and the aristocracy and the intimate link establi- 
shed between the second and the 3rd by the mutual 
exchange makes the friends of the native belong to that 
high class. Similarly if Libra be the ascendant, and 
Jupitor lord of the 3rd house is located in the 9th house, 
the native is religious minded and creates contacts with 
Sadhus and Mahatmas. Here also Jupitora religious and 
spiritual planet assumes the lordship of the house of 
friends viz the 3rd and is in contact with the house of 
spirituality and spiritual people (9th). Ifthere is exchange 
between the lord of the 3rd and the 4th house, Gne takes 
part in politics, as the 4th house is the house of 


105 


the "Public". If there is the exchange between the 
lord of the 3rd and the 8th house this constitutes a yoga 
to a great extent, of suicide, for the 8th house denotes the 
mode of death and the 3rd house the "Self" of man. 


(4) Literary Activities and the 3rd House. fie ord of 
the 3rd house is intimately linked to the lagna, the 
chandra lagna and the surya lagna, and the second house, 
and is also strong, the native earns his livelihood through 
literary activities, writing of books etc. Ifcancer be the 
ascendant and Mercury is strong and has an intimate 
link, by association or aspect, with the three lagnas viz 
the lagna proper, the chandra lagna and the Surya Lagna, 
one becomes an astrologer. The reason is that Mercury 
is the significator of astrology and his intimate and strong 
link with the lagnas makes astrology as the source of 
income. It would be noted that in this case Mercury has 
the lordship of the 12th house as well. The 12th house 
being 9th from the 4th, represents the EBHAGYAY® or the 
"fate" of the general public. In other words he earns by 
divining the fate of the people. 


(5) Arms and the 3rd House. Ifon the 3rd house, it's 
lord and on Mercury there is the influence, by association 
or aspect, of Mars and Ketu as also of the planets that 
are lords of the signs occupied by Mars and Ketu, the 
native gets his "ARM" severed through some accident. 
The reason need not be dilated upon. Suffice it to say 
that Mars etc. are planets of injury and the 3rd house etc. 
are representatives of arms and are bound to suffer at the 
hands of the former (See horoscope No. 31). The man's 
right arm was severed by being run over by a train. 


(6) Longivity and the 3rd House. The third house 
represents "Longivity as muchas does the 8th house. 


106 


for according to the principle of SBHAVAT! BHAVAM2: 
it is 8th from the 8th. If, therefore, when the 3rd house 
and it's lord are exposed to much malefic influence, there 
is danger of the life being cut short, particularly in cases 
where the lord of the 3rd house is Mercury who is known 
for it's quality of receiving easily good or bad influences 
and who being a "KUMAR" or boy (Symbologically gives 
relatively earlier results.) The Same principle can be 
extended by us to relatives of ours. For example if léd be 
the ascendent and if Mars aspects both the 11th house 
and it's lord i.e. Mercury, the father of the native meets 
a premature death. The reason is that Mercury becomes 
the lord of the 3rd house from the 9th i.e. from the house 
of the father and as such by it's affliction denotes danger 
to the longivity of his father. 


(7) Great Riches and the Third House. Ifthe lord of the 
3rd house occupies the 8th house and is there under the 
influence, by association or aspect, of the natural malefics- 
lardé of the 6th and the 12th houses and is devoid of any 
influence, association or aspect, of natural benefic planets, 
the configuration constitutes a "VIPREET RAJA YOGA" 
which confers extra-ordinary riches on the native. The 
reason is that the third house is a bad house, and it's lord 
by being situated in the 6th house from the third i.e. in 
the 8th, will harm the prospects of the 3rd house==which 
will suffer all the more under other malefic influences 
referred to above. The affliction of the lords of the evil 
houses destroys their evil thus resulting in the good of the 
native. Negative destroyed is always positive gained. 
(See horoscopes no. 26). 


(8) Small Travels and the Third House. If the third house 
and it's lord is afflicted by the influence of malefics like 


107 


Fig. No. 26 


Saturn, Rahu and Mars, one has occasion to perform 
small journeys frequently or go on tours etc. The third 
house is the house of Small journeys. 


(9) Air Travels and the Third House. If there is an 
intimate mutual link, by association or aspect, between 
the lords of the 3rd, 7th and the 11th houses, and the 
link is established by any planets such as Rahu and Saturn 
the native gets opportunities for travel by air. The 
reason is obvious. The three houses mentioned above are 
"AIRY" houses. The mutual interaction of "AIRY" 
elements brings about journeys by air. 


(10) Discoveries and the Third House. J the lord of the 
3rd and the 8th house are conjoined in the Sth house of 
the horoscope, the native is endowed wi h the capacity 
for deep and subde thinking on intricate problems. He 
engages himself in research work and often turns out to be 
a “Discoverer". The rationale behind the statement is 
that the 8th house is ‘GOOHYA” or deep and subtle and 
so is the third (being 8th from the 8th). The link of the 


103 


lords of the 8th and the 3rd houses with the house of 
intelligence (Sth) would naturally engage the intelligence 
of the native in persuit ofresearch and discoveries. This 
yoga obtains in the horoscopes of such eminent scientist 
as Newton and Einstine. 


(11) Adartial Bravery and the Third House. If the 3rd 
house and it's lord is strong or if there is a natural benefic 
planet in it's own sign in the 3rd house with Ketu, the 
native becomes a great soldier, brave and courageous. 
Ketu like Mars is a martial and brave pianet, and the 
3rd house being the house of "Arms" represents the 
"ARMED" forces as well as the valour of the arms. 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THIRD HOUSE 


dries in the Third House. If Aries falls in the 3rd house, 
Mars who is the natural significator of the younger 
brother, himself becomes the lord of the 3rd house If 
Mars is strong and well aspected along with the 3rd 
house, the native has many younger brothers. If, on the 
other hand, these factors are weak and afflicted the native 
is denied younger brothers. Mars also has the lordship 
of the 10th house. If Mars is strong the native takes 
active part in the affairs of the state. Since the sign Aries 
i.e. the first sign falls in the 3rd house, the planets become 
the lord of the same number as the sign counted from the 
3rd house. In other words the planets represent fully 
the various limbs of the younger brother. In case any 
planet is heavily afflicted, the limb denoted by it will 
suffer, much particularly when the sign of which it is the 
lord is also afflicted by malefic influence. For example 
if the 4th house from the 3rd and Moon are weak and 
afflicted the younger brother of the native will suffer from 


109 


troubles relating to the 4th house i.e. from diseases of the 
chest and the lungs. Similarly the Sun will become the 
lord of not only the 5th sign but also of the same number 
of house viz the 5th and would represent the belly and 
heart of the younger brother. In the event of severe 
affliction of the 5th house and the sun, the younger 
brother of the native will suffer from troubles in the belly 
and the heart. The principle may be extended to the 
other houses of the younger brother of the native and the 
results declared as adverse for the younger brother in so 
far as the limb represented by the house of the brother is 
concerned. If weak, Mars will denote short life to the 
younger brother of the native. 


(2) Taurus in the Third House. When tbe sign Taurus 
falls in the 3rd house, Venus becomes the lord of the 3rd 
and the 8th houses, both representing "Longivity". For 
that reason strong Venus confers good longivity on the 
native. A weak Venus for the same reason would indicate 
short life to the native unless other factors of longivity 
are very strong. If Venus is strong in the horoscope, it 
indicates, as a female lord of the 3rd house, the existance 
of younger sisters of the native in good number. Such a 
person is fond of luxurious life and to that end he may 
risk his life. If Venus the lord of the 3rd and the 8th 
house is in the fifth house, it indicates the pursuit of the 
occult, the hidden, and the abtruse, mainly through the 
intellectual research. 


(3) Gemini in the Third House. If gemini falls in the 
3rd house, the native is fond of putting much labour in 
his work. He is generally fond of sports also, particularly 
if Mercury is linked to the 6th house. When Mercury is 
strong the native possesses younger sisters in good numbers 


110 


for Mercury as an independent planet represents the female 
sex. If Mercury is weak and associated with and aspected 
by malefic planets, particulary if it is so in the 5th house, 
the native becomes a millionaire, provided the 3rd house, 
the 6th house and Mercury have no benefic influence on 
them by association or aspect. In such a case one can 
easily see that Mercury would be adversely situated from 
both of it's signs. From Gemini it would be third 
and from Virgo it will be in the 12th house. Thus it 
would do much harm to both the 3rd and the 6th house. 
Now since the 3rd house dénotes dire poverty (being 8th 
from the 8th) and the 6th denotes "Want" "debts" etc., 
Mercury would then represent the destruction of "poverty 
and "want", which is an indirect way of saying that the 
native will be rich. This is a "VTPREET RAJA YOGA" 
i.e. a yoga of affluence through the destruction of negative 
forces. Since the 3rd house being 8th from the 8th 
represents the 8th house #.e. the longivity of the native, 
the affliction of the 3rd house and Mercury in a severe 
manner, indicates the strong possibility of the life of the 
native being cut short suddenly ie. prematurely. 
In this connection it would be remembered that Mercury 
like it's mother Moon is known to act in a sudden manner 


causing SARISHTA”. 


(4) Cancer in the Third House. The lord of the 4th sign 
is Moou—which is the significator of "MIND" and _ the 
3rd house represents one's "hobby". Hence the house in 
which the Moon would be situated would indicate the 
subject or the sphere in which the native is interested from 
the point of view of "Hobby". For example if Moon is 
located in the 4th house in the sign Leo, one takes great 
interest in politics, if it is located in the 5th house in the 
sign virgo, he is interested in places of amusement, such as 


Il 


the cinema, clubs etc. If moon is weak and afflicted the 
chest of the younger brother of the native is weak, and he 
is likely to fall prey to such diseases of the chest as the T.B. 
pneumonia etc. Ifin addition to Moon being weak there 
is the affliction of the 3rd house as well, particularly by 
Mars, the younger brother of the native is likely to become 
hunch-backed. 


(5) Leo in the Third House. Sun is the lord of the sign 
Leo. Sun isa male planet. Hence if Sun is strong parti- 
cularly by the aspect of Jupitor the native would possess a 
good number of youger brothers, and the younger brother 
is bold and in the good books of the govt. Ifthe Sun is 
located in the 10th or the 11th house, the native becomes 
much ambitious, and developes contacts with the V.I.P's. 


(6) Virgo in the Third House. Here the planet mercury 
becomes the lord of the 12th and the 3rd houses. If this 
planet happens to fall in the 5th house in the sign scorpio, 
it would be adversely situated from both of it's signs. I 
will be 6th from Gemini and 3rd from Virgo. Mercury 
in such a position would naturally harm the prospects of 
the 12th and the 3rd houses, more particularly because it 
would be occupying scorpio-an inimical sign as well. 
Now if Mercury is under the malefic influence only and 
has on it no influence either by aspect or by association of 
benefic planets, and the 12th and the 3rd houses are also 
devoid of benefic influence, the evil denoted by the 3rd 
and the 12th houses will be completely destroyed with the 
result that the yoga will give extra-ordinary affluence and 
would make the native a millionaire indeed. It should, 
however, be remembered that the severe affliction of both 
the 3rd house and it's lord, particularly Mercury, may 
result in the premature death of the native, unless he has 
very strong indications for a long life. 


112 


(7) Libra in the Third House. When the sign Libra falls 
in the 3rd house, Venus becomes the lord of the 3rd and 
the 10th houses. Such a person uses his arms for the 
purpose of or for the benefit of the govt. of the day. If 
Saturn too is strong and is favourably situated from the 
3rd house, the younger brother of the native (of course if 
he has one) rises to high position in life. A strong Venus 
for people with Leo as their ascendant is not conducive 
to wealth. For them it would be better if they have a 
weak Venus, in order to have good finances. 


(8) Scorpio in the Third House. If Mars is strong it 
bestows much longivity on the native as it then becomes 
lord of two houses, each of which represents longivity. 
But a strong Mars gives very little wealth as it enhances 
or boosts up poverty represented by the 8th house, and 
the one 8th to 8th ie the 3rd. Mars in Gemini in the 10th 
house gives vices in youth and also gives violent mind ih 
that period of one's life. 


(9) Sagittarius in the Third House. Jupitor becomes 
the lord of two houses that are evil, viz the 3rd and the 
6th. Weakness of Jupitor bestows wealth, Jupitor being 
lord of the house of friends, (3rd) denotes the acquisition 
of friends, moral in nature. It's location in the house of 
morality, therefore, indicates that the person will develop 
contacts with highly spiritual people. 


(10) Capricorn in the Third House. If Saturn is located 
in the 3rd house, and is well influenced, the native is 
favourably disposed towards the lower strata of society, 
he loves the masses in general and in turn is loved by the 
public. His younger brother is of somewhat harsh speech, 
unless Saturn has on it benefic influence of Jupitor etc. 


113 


The native has good landed property. IfSaturn is strong 
he has a good number of younger sisters, for Saturn is a 
female planet by itself though of course, it acts as a eunuch 
when influencing the 7th house and it's lord and karka 
exclusively or in company with Mercury. If Saturn is 
weak and afflicted, the native has dearth of younger 
sisters, and he suffers at the hands of friends. 


(11) Acquarius in the Third Houst. VfSaturn is strong 
one has quite a number of youger sisters. The native is 
long lived (third house is also one of longivity). He gets 
benefitted from his friends and younger sisters. If on the 
other hand Saturn is weak, and afflicted the native is 
short-lived and also suffers financially at the hands of his 
friends and sisters. 


(12) Pisces in the Third House. Jupitor becomes the 
lord of the 3rd and the 12th houses—both bad. 
Hence if Jupitor is weak, it creates "Vipreet Raja Yoga" 
and gives good riches. If Jupitor is strong, the native is 
blessed with younger brothers. If Jupitor is in the 9th 
house, the native moves in the company of saints. If 
Jupitor is aspected or influenced by malefic planets, the 
native suffers losses and expenses at the hands of his 
younger brothers. 


4 


The Fourth House 


(1) Lunacy and the Fourth House. Wfthe 4th house, it's 
lord and Moon—all emotional factors—along with other 
"intellectual" factors such as the 5th house, it's lord, the 
first house, it's lord and Mercury are all weak and afflicted 
by malefic planets, the native becomes mentally weak and 
in severe cases even a lunatic. For what is lunacy after 
all, if not the disturbance of the intellectual and the 
emotional poise, in man (See horoscope No. 31 and our 
book "HORA SHATAK". 


(2) Fear and the Fourth House. If Moon is the lord of the 
4th house and there is on the Moon an exclusive influence 
of Rahu, it shows some sort of phobia or feay in the mind 
and in severe cases one suffers from fit's and swoons. 


(3) Epilepsy and the Fourth House. If Moon as the lord 
of the 4th house is located in the 8th and is under the 
exclusive influence of Rahu, one suffers from epilepsy. 
The reason is that both the 4th house and Moon represent 
the emotional contents of the mind and the 8th house is 
one of destruction. Hence emotions in the house of 
destruction suffer at the hands of Rahu, for Moon repre- 
senting the emotions is mortally afraid of Rahu. 


115 


(4) Special Inclination and the Fourth House. Moon lord 
of the fourth house locates one's preferences and passions 
in the house in which the Moon is located. For example, 
if Moon lord of the 4th house is in the 6th house, the 
native is persevering and fond of sports, for the 4th house 
and the Moon represent desires and the 6th house repre- 
sents labour and sports, and exercise etc. Ina female 
nativity an exchange between the lords of the 4th and the 
5th houses, makes her efficient in fine arts, such as dancing 
etc. The yoga becomes all the more strong if the lord of 
the 5th House (the house of amusements) is Ventis—the 
significator of arts and is associated with Mercury. 


(5) Mother and the Fourth House. \f Fourth house, it's lord 
and Moon are all strong, mother is long-lived, i.e. to say 
she lives up to the old age of the native himself. More so 
will be the case if the lords of the 6th and the [Ith houses 
are also strong, for these houses being 3rd and 8th respec- 
tively from the 4th represent the longivity of mother. If 
Mars is in Lagna, Saturn in the second and Moon in the 
8th house, the native loses his mother early in his life. 
The reason is obvious. In such a case the malefic planets 
Mars and Saturn will afflict by their aspect not only the 
4th hause=—thé house of mother, but also Moon—the 
significator of Mother. 


(6) Diseases and the Fourth House. Ifthe fourth house, 
it's lord, the 4th sign i.e. concer and it's lord i.e. Moon are 
all afflicted by association or aspect, of malefic planets, the 
4th limb of the "KALA PURUSHA" ie. of time personi- 
fied should be taken as afflicted. This would result in the 
trouble to the 4th part of the body of the native i.e. to the 


pac tpatshisthasthgee tor 


etc., depending on the intensity of tne malefic influence 
(See horoscope No. 27). 


(7) Comforts and the Fourth House. Wf the &tH house, it's 
lord and Jupitor are all weak and afflicted, the native gets 
very little of Eomf¢rts and amenities in life and he suffers 
much in life, for ali the factors representing comforts and 
joys are afflicted. On the contrary ifall these factors are 
strong and well aspected etc., one passes his life in peace 
and comfort. (See horoscope No. 28) 


(8) Conveyance and the Fourth House. Tf the lord of the 
ascendant is linked in some manner or other with the 4th 
house, it's lord and Moon, and the 4th house etc. are all 
strong, and well influenced, by benefics the native takes 
active part in political affairs, is popular with the public 
Bnd ig » well wisher and leader pfthe masses (Please see 
horoscope No. 2). If on the other hand the 4th house, 
it's lord and Moon are all weak and afflicted and there ™ 
no link between these and the ascendant one does 
either enter politics, grfihe does he is not successfull 


7 


Fig. No. 28 


init. The 4th house is the house of Masses. If the 4th 
house, it's lord and Moon are all linked with Rahu, 
through association or aspect, it gives indication of riots 
by the people in native's fife. The reason is that Rahu is 
the significator of sudden events, riots, revolutions coupe- 
de-tete etc. Hence it's link with the house of masses 
creates that type of activity. The author of "DEVA 
KERALAM" obseives :- 


“Sukheshe Rahu Samyukt Dashayam Raj Vigra- 
ham”. 


Translation. When the lord of the 4th house is con- 
joined to Rahu and Rahu has his ruling period, it denotes 
a period of riots by the masses. 


(10) Landed Property and the Fourth House. If the 4th 
house and it's lord are strong, and Saturn has a link, by 
association or aspect with the 4th house, as well as by the 
lord of the lagna, the native becomes the master of much 
landed property. He may also earn through agriculture, 
farming, rent sale of property etc. 


118 


(11) Transfers and the Fourth House. If on the fourth 
house and it's lord, there is influence of a "seperative" 
nature, such as one exerted by the Sun, Saturn or Rahu 
or by the lord of the 1?th house, he is compelled to leave 
his house and or his residence denoted by the 4th house, 
as a result of such separative influence. Seperation from 
residence is what constitutes a transfer of a person in 
government service. Ifthere is very heavy influence of 
the above nature on the 4th house and it's lord, one is 
permanently seperated from his place of birth and has to 
pass the rest of his life in some other province or country. 


(12) The Defect of the Lordship of the Fourth House by 
Benefics. If the lord of the 4th house also becomes the 
lord of the 7th house as is the case in the case of people 
with Pisces or Virgo ascendants, then Mercury and Jupitor 
suffer from the defect of owning two kendra _ houses, for 
according to the basic principles laid down by Maharshi 
Parashar, natural benefics lose their benefic nature when 
they become the lords of kendras. Hence when such 
benefic planets are situated in evil houses such as the 6th, 
8th or the 12th, they indicate disease in their ruling periods. 
The disease or physical trouble in such an event will take 
place in the sub ruling period of a maraka planet. In the 
main ruling period of the benefic lords of the kendras and 
in the sub ruling period of the lord of the 4th house too 
there is generally physical trouble, though it is not of a. 
very severe type. 


(13) Weak Planets in the Fourth Houst. If a planet is 
weak and is situated in the fourth house, it would give 
disease etc. in it's sub period, in the main ruling period of 
the lords of the 2nd, 6th, 7th, 8th or the 12th houses 
The disease in all such cases ig generally not fatal. 


119 


(14) Enmity and the 4th House. Since the fourth house 
is the house of the masses. if the lord of the 4th house is 
weak and under malefic influence, it brings about conflict 
or quarrel with some one from amongst the general 
public. 


(15) Selfishness and the Fourth House. If the 4th house 
it's lord and Moon are all under the influence of Saturn 
and Rahu, and there is absence of any other kind of 
influence, it makes the native highly selfish. 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the Fourth House. Vf Aries falls in the 4th 
house Mars becomes the lord of the 4th and the 11th 
houses. If Mars is strong itis instrumental in the acquisi- 
tion of property and gain therefrom. It creates anger in 
the mind. Judged from the 4th house the planets lord of a 
particular house become also the lord of the same number 
of signs as well, with the result that if any planet is weak 
and afflicted, it points towards trouble in the limb of the 
mother of the native in the part represented by the number 
of signs afflicted. If Mars is strong it indicates long life 
for the mother of the native. If on the other hand, Mars 
is weak and afflicted it indicates short life to her, The 
nature of influence being exerted on Mars, the 4th house 
and the 11th house will determine the mode of death of 
the mother of the native. 


(2) Taurus in the Fourth House. Venus becomes the lord 
of the 4th and the 9th houses and as such under the rules 
laid down by Maharshi Parashar becomes "Raja yoga 
Karaka" i.e. conferer of affluence and power, in it's sub- 
period. Venus, however, must be strong, otherwise there 


120 


will be very little of gain. If Venus is strong the native 
acquires fine conveyances as also good amount of property. 
Such a person takes part in politics. His luck shines 
through his public activities. If Venus is weak and under 
malefic influence, his father is short lived i.e. his father 
dies when the native is quite young. The reason for the 
short life of the father lies in the fact that Venus becomes 
the lord of the 3rd and the 8th houses from that of the 
father, and as such represents his longivity in full manner. 
Such a person suffers in life through adverse fate i.e. 
through circumstances beyond his control. 


(3) Gemini in the Fourth House. When Gemini falls in 
the 4th house, Mercury becomes the lord of the 4th house 
and that of the 7th. If Mercury is very weak and heavily 
afflicted, the father of the native dies while the native is 
very young, particularly when the 4th house and Mercury 
are aspected by Mars. The reason is that Mercury 
becomes the lord ofthe 8th (Longivity) house from that 
of the father (9th) and being prone to suffer easily and 
quickly, it indicates early loss of the longivity of father. 
If Mercury is strong the native owns considerable landed 
property. If Mercury is conjoined to Venus and Moon, 
and all the three are under strong malefic influence, by 
association or aspect, the mother of the native is likely to 
go mad. A native with weak and afflicted Mercury 
suffers emotionally because of some conduct of his wife. 


(4) Cancer in the Fourth House. If the sign cancer falls 
in the 4th house, Moon the significator of mind _ herself 
becomes the lord of the house ofmind. Hence Moon 
lord of the 4th house will locate, the nature of the main 
desire of the native in the house in which she is situated, 
If the Moon is in the house of finance, the native will be 


121 


after wealth, if she is in the 3rd house, he will be very 
much fond of friends, and their company. If she is located 
in the Sth she will be indicative of the fondness of the 
native for his children. Ifshe is in the 6th house one is 
fond of mixing with foreign people. If Moon is weak and 
afflicted she will bring about diseases of the chest. The 
mother of the native may also suffer from diseases of the 
chest for the 4th house—the lagna of the mother will have 
in it the sign no. 4 representing the chest. If Moon is 
afflicted by Rahu along with the 4th house one suffers 
from fits and swoons. If Moon is located in the 8th house 
and Rahu afflicts the 4th house and Moon, the native 
may suffer from epilepsy, for Moon is mortally afraid of 
Rahu and in such a condition the phobia called epilepsy 
is created (See "MEDICAL ASTROLOGY" by the 
author). 


(5) Leo in the Fourth House. Sun becomes the lord of 
the 4th house when leo falls in that house. If Sun is 
strong the residence of the native is wide and open with 
plenty of sun shine init. The native is bold with a broad 
chest. He has comforts of a high class in life. His 
mother is a lady with much prowess. If Sun is weak and 
afflicted by Saturn and Rahu, who if they also afflict the 
4th house: the native is sure to leave his residence and 
live away from it most of his life. Ifsuch a yoga obtains 
in the case of a govt. servant, he is liable to very frequent 
transfers. The mother of the native in such a case suffers 
from nervous troubles such as arthiritis paralysis etc. 


(6) Virgo in the Fourth House. Mercury becomes the 
lord of the 1st and the 4th house, when Virgo falls in the 
4th house. Hence if Mercury is strong the native is 
highly intellectual, wealthy, popular and acquainted with 


122 


many languages. His mother is long lived and he possesses 
conveyances and other items of comfort. Ifon the other 
hand Mercury is weak and afflicted, he is sorrowfull, poor, 
foolish, with very little education, and opposed to the 
public. If Moon and Venus are conjoined to Mercury, 
and all the three are weak and afflicted he may develop 
lunacy. 


(7) Libra in the Fourth House. When Libra falls in the 
4th house, Venus becomes the lord of the 4th and the 
11th houses. If Venus be in the 7th or the 12th house, 
the native is over sexed, for the reason that both the 7th 
and the 12th houses are houses of sex and enjoyment of 
the bed, and Venus as the lord of the 4th house represents 
a mind saturated with sex. If Venus and Ranu are 
situated together in the 12th house, the mother of the 
native dies of some chronic disease, for Rahu a malignant 
planet not only acts like Saturn and harms Venus, lord of 
the 4th house, but also harms the 4th house too by it's 
aspect. 


(8) Scorpio in the Fourth House. Mars becomes the lord 
of the 4th and 9th houses, when scorpio fall in the 4th 
house. The fourth is a kendra’ while the 9th is a 
trine house. Hence by simultaneously owning a kenndra 
and akona, Mars becomes a Raja Yoga karaka ie. a 
planet of affluence and power, and in the event of being 
strong, by house and sign position, gives in it's sub period 
high class results in regard to comforts wealth, honour, 
ruling powers, governmental favour, position, promotion 
etc. Such a person is very likely to gain from property. 
He is also happy because of the benefit that he gets from 
his father. If Mars is weak and afflicted, the father of the 
native meets his end while the native is still young, the 


123 


reason being that Mars in such a case becomes the lord of 
two houses each of which represents longivity of father. 
An afflicted Mars denotes trouble in the scrotem of the 
native's father, for Mars becomes the lord of both the 8th 
sign and the 8th house, counted from the house of the 
father. 


(9) Sagittarius in the Fourth House. Jupitor becomes 
lord of the 4th and the 7th houses. A strong Jupitor 
makes one possess a wise, sober, philosophical and moral 
mind. His mother is long-lived. He gets conveyances 
such as Car etc. He gets good amenities of life and peace 
of mind for Jupitor the significator of comforts and peace 
himself becomes the lord of the house of comforts (4th). 
A weak and afflicted Jupitor creates the defect of the 
ownership of two kendras as a result of which it ceases to 
be a natural benefic and suffers much, particularly if it is 
situated in such evil houses as the 2nd, 6th, 8th or the 
12th, when it brings about much physical trouble to the 
native in it's sub periods. 


(10) Capricorn in the Fourth House. When Capricorn is 
in the 4th house, Saturn becomes the lord of a kendra 
(4th) and a trine (Sth). Hence Saturn becomes a Raja 
Yoga karka ie. a planet of affluence and power. If 
Saturn is strong it confers much wealth property, position, 
promotion honour etc. The native is devoted to the 
general public, and fond of amusements. If Saturn is 
weak the native meets sorrow at the hands of his son. 
His mother has harsh speech unless Saturn is well aspected. 
If Saturn has on it the influence of Rahu, the native is 
selfish. 


(11) Acquarius in the Fourth House. If Saturn is strong 
the native comes to possess considerable property. The 


124 


native takes active part in public affairs and is benefitted 
from friends. His mother lives long. If Saturn is weak 
and afflicted, the native suffers at the hands of friends, he 
is opposed to the interest of the general public and harms 
the interest of the people. 


(12) Pisces in the Fourth House. Jupitor becomes the 
lord of the 1st and the 4th houses. If Jupitor is strong 
the native becomes highly wise, sober, talented philin- 
thropic, wealthy, unselfish and popular. His mother is 
long-lived. He gets comforts of every description, and 
leads a peacefull life. If Jupitor is weak, he works against 
the interests of the general public and suffers much in life. 


125 


The Fifth House 


(1) Intellect and the Fifth House. The fifth house is 
related to intellect, and as such questions relating to 
intellect and intelligence, should be considered, inter alia, 
from the 5th house, of course along with a consideration 
of the planet Mercury=the significator of intellect. If all 
the three factors namely the Sth house, it's lord and 
Mercurv are strong one possesses high calibre and keen 
intelligence. 


(2) One's Diety and the Fifth House. An “ISHTA 
DEVATA” i.e. the diety one is devoted to is considered 
from the 5th house as the diety is after all a subject of our 
thought and devotion. Sun represents "VISHNU" Moon 
stands for “SARASWATI’?—the devi of learning and 
education. Mars represents "HANUMAN" Mercury 
again is "VISHNU" and Vedanta. Jupitor represents 
the absolute Brahm: Venus stands for Durga. Saturn 
represents the SHIVA and BHAIRAVA: 


(3) Ministership and the Fifth House. If the 5th house is 
very strong the power to advise others becomes very strong. 
With supporting strength such persons can become 
advisors and ministers of the state. If there is an exchange 
between the lord of the 5th house and the 10th house, 


126 


such as would be the case if Jupitor occupies the sign 
taurus in the 10th house and Venus is located in the sign 
Sappitarius in the 5tb house, such a person has the capa- 
city to give to the govt: the benefit of his advice. (See 


horoscope No. 29) 


Fig. No. 29 oS 


(4) Male Issues and the Fifth House. The lagna ie. the 
Ist house is fifth from the nineth. That is why it is the 
house of self i.e. of the son to ones father. On the same 
anology the house fifth to the lagna stands for the son to 
the lagna i.e. for the son to self. All problems relating to 
the son should be considered from a study ofthe 5th 
house, it's lord and the planet Jupitor who is the signifi- 
cator of "SONS". In addition the lord of the nineth 
house should also be considered as the nineth house also 
acts as the fifth house on the principle of "BHAVAT 
BHAVAM”™: Ifall of these factors are weak and afflicted 
one is denied a son. For example if in any horoscope 
irrespective of it's ascendant, the planet Mars is situated 
in the 2nd house and the planet Saturn is located in the 
3rd house, and the planet Jupitor is located in any of the 
two houses fifth or the nineth, in ninetynine per cent of 


127 


cases, the native is not likely to be blessed with a son. If 
he has one by some strong beneficial influence the son is 
short lived. This is not without it's reason. It would be 
seen that both Saturn and Mars will fully aspect the 5th 
house—the house of "SONS". Being malefic planets their 
influence on the Sth house will not be conducive to the 
acquisition of Sons, particularly because of the fact that 
the malefic aspects in such cases will be received not only 
by the 5th house but also by Jupitor—the significator of 
"SONS". It should also be noted that the stipulated 
position of the two malefic planets Mars and Saturn not 
only adversely effects the 5th house but also the 9th house, 
which being 5th to 5th also acts as Sth and as such 
by being under strong malefic influence denies male 
progeny (See horoscope no. 51). Sun by it's location in 
the 5th house destroys pregnancies. In this house Moon 
by it's location gives many female issues with practically 
no male issue. Mars located in this house destroys the 
issues born and is also not conducive to having an issue. 
Mars occupying the sign Aries in the 5th house, particu- 
larly when the 12th house is occupied by the planet Rahu 
is instrumental in the loss of many pregnancies, the reason 
is that in such a case Mars comes to the 5th house as the 
lord of the 12th house and that too occupied by the planet 
Rahu. Mars in such a case acts not only as a malefic 
planet but also as the lord of the 12th house as well as the 
lord of the sign occupied by Rahu (See horoscope nwo. 30). 
Ifthe 5th house and it's lord are under the exclusive 
influence of Saturn and Mercury, there i! the likelihood of 
not getting any progeny at all, for both Saturn and 
Mercury are eunuchs and by themselves denote "Want" of 
things and their scarcity. Jupitor in this place is effective 
or instrumental in giving a male issue only if it is strong 
and is under benefic influence and is also devoid of malefic 


128 


Fig No. 30 


influence. Venus in the 5th house gives preponderating 
number of female issues. Saturn in this house acts like the 
Sun and is instrumental in causing abortion particularly 
when occupying an inimical sign. The results of the 
situation of Rahu and Ketu in the 5th house are akin to 
those of Saturn and Mats respectively. The author of 
"DEVA KERALAM" has opined :- 


"Putra Sthanadhipe Mande Yugmanshe Budha 
Veekshite Santati Stambha Yogapti Pratibandhak 


Jatakam” 


Translation, If Saturn is lord of the 5th house and 
occupies the navamsha of Mercury and is also aspected by 
mercury, the yoga prevents the birth cf progeny. 


(5) Love Marriage and the Fifth House. The 5th house 
is the house ofthe "PARAMOUR" and the lady love in 
the case of a female and male chart respectively. When 
the lord of the 5th house has an intimate relation by 
natural exchange, mutual aspect etc. with the Sth house 


129 


and it's lord, the man or woman does not marry in 
accordance with the traditional customs prevalent in the 
society but they contract a love marriage. For example, 
if Libra be the lagna and Saturn the lord of the 5th 
house is conjoined with the lord of the 7th house in the 
11th house, there is love marriage between the couple 
involved and not an arranged customary marriage 
according to tradition. 


(6) Amusement and the Fifth House. The 5th house 
denotes amusements also. Places of amusement such as 
the cinema, club carnivel etc. are examined from this 
house. If there is exchange between the lord of the 4th 
and the 5th houses, and the planets Mercury and Venus 
are mutually linked, in some shape or other, the native is 
passionately fond of places of amusement. 


(7) Competitive Exams. and the Fifth House. Since the 
5th house relates to intellect and it's exercise, all types of 
competitive examinations in service or outside, such as_ the 
subordinate accounts service the courses of instructions 
etc. are considered and examined from this house. The 
general principle of examining any problem from the 
house concerned, it's lord and the  signficator is involved 
here also. 


(8) Lottery and the Fifth House. The Sth house is also 
the house of speculation, Satta, lottery etc. If the 5th 
house is occupied by Rahu, or Ketu and the lord there- 
of 1s strong, and under benefic influence by association or 
aspect, the native has much chance of winning a lottery 
or getting some windfall, or unexpected favour in the 
sub period of Rahu and Ketu and the lord of the 5th 
house. If in addition Mercury becomes the lord of the 5th 
house, the chances for lottery are enhanced manyfold. If 


130 


the lord of the 9th house—a benefic planet also takes part 
in the yoga, the chances for getting a subtantial amount 
in lottery prize etc. are still further enhanced for the 9th 
house is the house of Bhagya or fate and bhagya or fate is 
divine dispensation, and not the result of human effort, 
besides the 9th house being 5th from Sth, acts as 5th i.e. 
acts as a house of lottery on the principle of “BHAVAT 
BHAVAM" The fifth house too being 9th from the 9th 
acts as the house of luck or fate. 


(9) Raja Toga and the Fifth House. Being 9th from the 
9th, the 5th house is also one of the best benefic houses. 
It is also a trine. Hence an intimate link of the lord of the 
5th house and the lord of a kendra such as the 4th confers 
"Raja Yoga" or affluence and power according to the basic 
principles of Indian Astrology laid down by Maharshi 
PARASHAR. But it must be ensured that the lord of 
the kendra establishing the said intimate link must not be 
lord of any other bad house such as the 11th 3rd, etc.— 
in which case there will be no Raja Yoga. 


(10) Balarishta and the Fifth House. When Moon is 
weak in the vicinity of the Sun and is under the influence, 
by association or aspect, of malefic planets, she creates 
what is called "BALARISHTA" i.e. danger to life of the 
newly born child in its childhood. Mercury is considered 
in astrology as the son of Moon. Hence in this context 
Mercury acts like Moon. In other words if Mercury is 
situated for example in the 5th house, in association with 
or under the aspect of malefic planets, it causes such 
and intricate serious physical troubles that the disease 
cannot be diagonized and the patient becomes the despair 
of the doctors. 


131 


(11) Planets in the Fifth House. Sun in the 5 th house 
causes loss of pregnancies. Ifa strong Moon occupies the 
5th house, she causes the birth of a good number of 
daughters, Mars situated in the 5th house, causes destruc- 
tion of the sons born, unless it is in it's own sign or in it's 
sign ofexhaltation. But Mars in Aries in the 5th house 
causes loss of pregnanccies for the reason that it comes 
there as the lord ofthe 12th house. An afflicted Mercury 
in the 5th house causes danger to life as already stated. 
Jupitor in this house if it be in a friendly sign, in it's own 
or exhaltation sign causes the birth ofsons. Ifit is in an 
inimical sign and badly aspected, it does not give male 
issues at all. 

(12) Lunacy and the Fifth House, Since it is tssential 
that the power of thinking and judgement should be 
impaired or disturbed in order to bring about lunacy and 
since the power of thinking and judgement is represented 
by the 5th house, it is essential to take into account the 
5th house and it's lord in addition to the other factors 
such as the first and the 4th houses and their lords 
Mercury and Moon, in order to infer lunatic tendencies 
in the birth chart ee horoscope no. 31). 


Fig. No. 31 


132 


(13) Behaviour of Malefics in the Fifth House. Natural 
malefic planets such as Sun, Mars and Saturn become 
weak by occupying the 5th House. In such an event the 
traits of the houses over which these malefic planets have 
lordship suffer. Hence natural malefic planets when they 
are lords of good houses but are situated in the Sth house, 
require the aspect or the influence 6F benefic planets in 
order to give good effects of the good houses over 
which they have lordship. If they are devoid of benefic 
influence they do not give good results. If Moon is in the 
5th house and is afflicted, by the malefic planets, it causes 
chances for the early death of the father of the native. 
In this context the author of "DEVA KERALAM" 
opines :- 


"Sute Pap Yute Chandre Shani Angarak Veek- 
shite Pitarishtam Janma Daye Dashamsha Grah 
Bhuktishu” 


Translation. If Moon occupies the 5th house and is 
aspected by Saturn and Mars, then in the very first ruling 
period in the life of the native and in the sub period of 
the lord of the navamsha occupied by the main ruling 
planet, the father of the native suffers terribly from 
disease. It must be clearly understood that the cause of 
physical trouble to the father in this case is not because 
there are malefic planets in the 8th house from the 10th 
(which is the house of father according to some) but 
because the 5th house being 9th to 9th works as the 9th 
house i.e. the house of the father in accordance with the 
principle of "BHAVAT BHAVAM". If the 5th house is 
afflicted by the presence therein of an afflicted moon, 
health of father suffers. The reason for the same is that 
an afflicted Moon in the 9th from any place causes arishta 


133 


to the relation represented by that place (here father). In 
dealing with the question of danger to child's life the 
great Acharya Varah Mihir has opined :- 


"Sut Madan Navantya lLagna Randhreshu 
Ashubha Yuto Marnaya Sheet Rashmih” 


Translation. If Moon is situated in the lagna, 5th, 7th, 
9th, 12th or 8th place in any horoscope and is_ afflicted 
it causes early demise of the native concerned. Applying 
the principle to the house of father we can easily see that 
Moon in the 9th from the house of the father that is 9th 
from 9th and afflicted would harm the life prospects of 
father. It was perhaps in view of the above principles that 
the author of "SARVARTHA CINTAMANI" has written 
as follows in regard to the 5th house vis-a-vis the father :- 


"Sut Bhavnat Sut Budhi Mantrinam Api Mantra 
Bhojan pitri Bhavan Hridaya Udar Pradesham 
Vivek Shaktim Ch Nirdishet Matiman” 


Translation. A wise man should examine, sons, intel- 
lect, mantra ie. the advisory capacity, eating, particulars 
about father heart, belly, wisdom etc., all from the Sth 
house. That the 5th house is relevent to the consideration 
of the particulars about the father is also clear from 
another statement of the same author made by him in the 
same work in another place :- 


"Pitustathaiv Atmaj Bhagya Suryah" 


Translation. All about father should be examined from 
the 5th house, the 9th house and the Sun. 


134 


SIGNS IN THE FIFTH HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the Fifth House. When Aries falls in the 
5th house the planet Mars assumes the lordship of the 5th 
and the 12th house. IfMarsis strong, it ensures good 
wealth, for the reason that the lord of the 12th house, 
according to the rules of Maharshi PARASHAR, always 
gives the results relating to the house in which it's other 
sign falls. Hence here Mars lord of the 12th house would 
give the results of the 5th house, which being a trine is 
bound to give beneficial results to the native. If Mars 
occupies the sign Gemini in the 7th house it makes the 
native over-sexed, as Mars falling in the 7th house has 
come there as the lord of the luxury house (12th) and the 
house of lady love (Sth). Mars even though it may be 
occupying it's own sign in the 5th house should be 
considered as instrumental in causing abortions, for the 
reason that it comes there as the lord of the house of 
seperation (12th). A strong Mars situated in a house 
other than the 5th is conducive to the acquisition of sons. 
A weak Mars detracts from power of logic and reasoning. 
It is also instrumental in bringing about losses through 
one's son. The son is also likely to suffer from some 
trouble in the region of the scrotem. Ifin the horoscope 
any one planet is extremely weak and afflicted, it denotes 
trouble or disease in the organ of the son represented by 
the house over which that weak planet has the lordship. 
The reason for this trouble lies in the fact that the lord of 
a particular house from the 5th also becomes the lord of 
the same number of sign for the 5th house, with the result 
that the limb involved becomes representative in character 
and as such easily suffers when afflicted. 


(2) Taurus in the Fifth House. Nenus becomes the yoga 
Karaka as it then becomes the lord of the 5th (trine) and 


135 


the 10th (Kendra) houses, and gives nice results in regard 
to affluence power etc. The son of the native is instru- 
mental for the performance of good and charitable deeds 
by the father. Venus also ensures the possession of good 
power of advising others. If on the other hand Venus is 
weak and afflicted, it gives very little gain in it's sub 
pericd. The native somehow performs unbecoming deeds 
as a result of the instigation etc. of his son. The native 
is also opposed to the govt. of the day in his assessment 
about the govt. 


(3) Gemini in the Fifth House. If Mercury is normal 
and not very strong it does not give much benefit as it 
has the simultaneous lordship of the worst house in the 
horoscope namely the 8th house. If, however, Mercury 
is extra strong, there are chances for the native to get a 
prize or lottery amount. The native is well educated and 
wise. If Saturn etc. are aspecting the Sth house, it's lord 
Mercury and it's significator Jupitor, the native is_ likely 
to be denied a male issue, provided the 9th house and 
it's lord are also weak. In that event the native is subject 
to trouble of wind in the belly. The 5th house is Oth 
from the 10th, and the 10th house, being 4th from the 7th 
represents the mother of the relation represented by the 
7th house i.e. mother of the wife or the husband, accord- 
ing as the horoscope belongs to a male or a famale person. 
When the 5th house and it's lord is afflicted by cruel 
planets like Mars, the mother of the wife or the husband 
is likely be short lived. 


(4) Cancer in the Fifth House. Moon lord of the 5th 
house in a Strong position i.e. away frcm the sun and un- 
afflicted by malefic planets, assures a good rise for the son 
of the native. In case however, Moon is weak it causes 


136 


such diseases to the son as cough pneumonia and other 
troubles in the chest. A strong Moon gives good memory 
and high intelligence. 


(5) Leo in the Fifth House. The sun becomes the lord 
of both the sign no. 5 as well as the house no. 5. Hence 
if the Sun is weak and afflicted by malefic planets it causes 
trouble in the region of the heart and the belly. If the 
Sun is afflicted by Rahu and the lord ofthe sign occupied 
by Rahu it is likely to cause heart trouble particularly. 
Rahu, it must be remembered, is a planet notorious for it's 
sudden effects which we always noticed inthe case of heart 
attack. 


(6) Virgo in the Fifth House. Mercury becomes the lord 
of the 2nd and the 5th house. If Mercury is strong it 
makes the native an orator, wealthy and wise and his son 
gets much honour in life’ The native possesses a hand- 
some body. Ifon the other hand Mercury is weak and 
afflicted by malefic planets, the native suffers financial 

. he is not highly educated, he is likely to lose preg- 
nane ies; may have some defect in his speech and he is 
likely to suffer losses through his own son. 


(7) Libra in the Fifth House. ‘Venus becomes the lord 
of the Sth and the 12th house. If Venus is strong it 
bestows much wealth on the native, for the reason already 
stated namely the lord ofthe 12th house gives the effects 
of the house in which it's other sign falls. Here the other 
sign of Ntmus falls in the 5th house whose effects are 
always good, it being a trine house. If Venus happens to 
fall in the 7th house, the native is over sexed for the 
reason that the planet Venus in such a case comes to the 
7th house as the lord of the 12th house and the Sth house, 


137 


both of which are houses of sex in some shape or other. 
A strong Venus gives many female issues. If Venus is 
weak it detracts from the longivity of the son. We can 
study the manner of death of the son by studying the 
nature of the influence being received by the planet Venus 
and the 5th and the 12th houses. Since Saturn is a strong 
Yoga Karaka for the libra ascendant it is clear that if the 
planet Saturn is strong it would indicate that the son of 
the native is likely to rise high in life. 


(8) Scorpio in the Fifth House. The planet Mars 
becomes the lord of the 5th house (a trine) and the 10th 
house (a kendra), and as such it gives highly good results 
in regard to finances, poweretc. If Mars is very strong 
the native has the capacity to rise high in the estimation 
of the Fovt); through his power of intellect and sound 
advisory capacity. He earns name and fame through his 
power of sound advice. If on the other hand Mars is 
weak and afflicted the name of the native suffers through 
his progeny. He also suffers through troubles in the 
belly. 


(9) Sagittarius in the Fifth House. If Jupitor is strong 
it bestows a son upon the native. Ifon the other hand if 
Jupitor is weak it denies son to the native, for the simple 
reason that weakness ofJupitor means the weakness not 
only of the lord of the 5th house but also of the karka of 
that house. A strong Jupitor gives high education and a 
good measure of intelligence. A weak and _ afflicted 
Jupitor spoils the married life of the elder sister to the 
native in as much as Jupitor becomes both the lord as 
well as the significator of the 7th house from the [Ith} ie. 
the house of the husband of the elder sister of the native. 


138 


(10) Capricorn in the Fifth House. If Saturn is strong 
the native is likely to have many daughters. The son of 
the native is likely to have a harsh tongue unless saturn 
has on it benefic aspect. If Saturn is weak and afflicted 
the son of the native proves a hurdle in the way of the 
native. 


(IL) Acquarius in the Fifth House. Saturn in such a case 
becomes a yoga karaka as it owns then the 5th house (a 
trine) and the 4th house (a kendra). A _ strong Saturn 
ensures comforts through the native's own son. The native 
is also likely to gain property through his son. If Saturn 
is weak and afflicted by association or aspect, the native 
is forced to live away from his place of birth most of his 
life time. He is of mediocre intelligence, and has not 
much wealth. 


(12) Pisces in the Fifth House. Jupitor becomes the lord 
of two benefic houses viz. the 2nd and the fifth. A strong 
Jupitor is conducive to the acquisition of wealth, power 
of fpeech} sons, high education and family etc. A strong 
Jupitor also represents "VALUE" and makes everything 
that it influences "VALUABLE" and of high importance. 
For example if Saturn and the fourth house are pspey fed 
by Jupitor, the native will have considerable landed 
proper. 


139 


The Sixth House 


(1) Foreign Elements and the Sixth House. The sixth 
house is called the house of enemies. An enemy is always 
harmful to one's interests, and for that reason the enemy is 
said to be "OTHER", "FOREIGN", or "ALIEN" and 
not one's own. Accordingly all foreign things and foreign 
people, communities and things are examined and studied 
from the 6th house. While examining the 6th house the 
11th house should also be examined along with it, for the 
11th house too acts as the 6th house on the principle of 
“BHAVAT BHAVAM”. Apart from these two houses the 
planet Rahu should also be examined, in this context for 
Rahu is the significator of "FOREIGN" elements. For 
é€xample; the second house stands for the family ofa 
person. If there is on the second house and it's lord 
foreign influences of the lords of the 6th and the 11th 
houses along with that of Rahu, one's family becomes 
"FOREIGN" to him. In other word he is adopted in 
another family (See horoscope no. 32). 


(2) Injuries and the Sixth House. An enemy or a hurdle 
can be a veritable source of injury to us. Hence injuries 
are very appropriately examined from the 6th house. The 
11th house lord is as much a cause of injuries as the lord 
of the 6th house, according to the principle of "BHAVAT 


140 


Fig No. 32 


BHAYAM" already stated. Among the planets, Mars and 
Ketu are the planets responsible for causing injuries. 
When in a birth chart Mars himself becomes the lord of 
both the 6th and the 11th house, as is the case with people 
born with Gemini as their ascendant, it effectively harms 
the house etc. that it effects by association or aspect. For 
example Mars placed in the Gemini lagna causes injury’ to 
the head. Ina similar manner if in a Gemini nativity 
Mars influences, by association or aspect, the first and 
the 8th houses and their lords, the native meets his end 
by violence, as all the factors through which the "Mode 
of death” is studied will in this case be under the influence 
of violent and injurious Mars. 


(3) Disease and the Sixth House. As already stated the 
6th house is the house of disease. Amongst the planets 
Saturn and Rahu are considered as the karkas or the 
significators of disease. Hence it is not difficult to see 
that when Saturn becomes the lord of the 6th house 
containing Rahu it becomes tripple representative of 
disease : - (a) As a significator of diseases ; (b) As the lord 
of the house of disease, (c) as lord of the sign occupied by 


141 


Rahu—another significator or disease. Saturn thus a 
complete representative of disease will naturally harm the 
limb etc. denoted by the house it may occupy or aspect. 
For example if in a birth chart with Virgo as the ascen- 
dant Rahu occupies the 6th house, Saturn becomes such a 
complete representative of disease. If such Saturn occupies 
say the 9th house, it will cause disease to hips or the 
lower portion of the vertibral column, represented by the 
9th house. The same Saturn will bring about some 
trouble in the ears also as it will then be aspecting the 
L1th Ard the 3rd houses=houses that stand for the ears. 
Because of it’s aspect on the 6th house it will weaken the 
intestines as well. 


(4) Debts and thé Sixth House. Debts are generally 
incurred to others and not to our own people from whom 
we generally get things gratis. Hence debts are considered 
from the 6th house. When the lagna the second and the 
Lth house are under malefic influence and the lord of the 
6th house has established a relation by aspect etc. with 
the §€¢coud house and it's lord, the native has to incur 
much expenditure and as a result go under debt. 


(5) Vipreet Raja Toga and the Sixth House. Raja Yoga 
is of two kinds Direct Raja Yoga and the "VIPREET" 
Raja Yoga or the "REVERSE" Raja Yoga. When the 
lords of the benefic houses such as those of kendras and 
trines are in mutual relation by aspect etc. and are strong 
the yoga is created and is called Direct Raja Yoga, which 
is of course conducive to much wealth. But when the 
lords of the evil houses are in mutual relation and are 
weak and afflicted exclusively by malefic planets this 
weakness removes the evil effects of the evil houses over 
which they have lordship, and in turn the native gains 


142 


much more than he does by having a Raja Yoga of the 
direct type, for the reason that any good that the native 
may be receiving otherwise is in addition to the good that 
he receives by the destruction of the evil of the bad houses. 
For example, if the ascendant be cancer and Mercury 
occupies the 5th hduse and Saturn the 8th, then Mercury 
creates Raja Yoga of the "VIPREET" type. In sucha 
case Mercury is situated in evil place (3rd), from an evil 
house (3rd) and again located in another evil place i.e. 
the 6th from another evil house viz the 12th. Thus 
Mercury is the lord of two evil houses viz the 12th and 
the 3rd. It becomes harmful to the 12th and the 3rd 
house, more so as it is aspected by a malefic Saturn, and 
who is also an evil planet for the cancer ascendant. The 
weakness of the lords of the 12th and the third houses 
means destruction of evil and the result is affluence of the 
reverse order. It should, however, be ensured that 
Mercury is not under any benefic influence. Then onlv¥ 
will it give the results of the reverse Raja Yoga. 


(6) Uncles and the Sixth House. The 6th house is 3rd 
from the fourth, hence it represents the younger brothers 
of the native's mother. Thus the life etc. ofthe younger 
brother of the mother is to be considered from the 6th 
house, along, of course, with the planet Mercury=thé 
significator of uncles. 


(7) Theft and the Sixth House. Mars is the significator 
of "THEFT". For Gemini nativities it becomes all the 
more so, as it then has the lordship over two houses 6th 
and 11th each of which represents theft, the 6th as the 
main house of theft, and the [Ith as one on the principle 
of "BHAVAT BHAVAM", that is being the 6th to 6th. 
Thus for example if Mars for Gemini nativities occupies 


143 


the sign libra in the 5th house, it denotes loss of wealth 
through theft. Mars in the 5th house means it is 9th to 
Oth, and as such harms the prospects of the Oth house viz. 
luck. The author of ‘DEVA KERALAM" has opined :- 


“Swochamshe Taulige Bhaume Chor Dreshkan 
Samyute, Lagne Cha Mithune Jatah Choraphrit 
Vitta Van". 


Translation. If Mars is situated in Libra in it's exhal- 
tation navamsha and in “THEFT" decante in a 
nativity having Gemini as the ascendant, it causes loss of 
wealth through the thieves. 


(8) Enmity and the Sixth House. If there is a natural 
benefic planet in it's own sign in the 6th house together 
with Ketu, then the native has mighty enemies. The pla- 
net that influences such a planet in dignity usually denotes 
the source or the party from which the enmity comes. 
For example, in the horoscope of ShreeJ. L. Nehru we 
find that the 6th house contains Jupitor in dignity in 
Sagittarius along with ketu. He had to contend with a 
great enemy like the British Empire. Mars aspects the 
6th house from the 3rd and denotes that the enmity 
should arise from the British whom Mars represents in 
mundane astrology. He had, therefore, to actin opposition 
to the British govt. If the 6th house has on it purely 
benefic influence, particularly of the benefic lord of the 
lagna and has no malefic influence, the native is gentle 
and loving even towards his enemies. 


(9) Kala Purasha and the Sixth House. The 6th house 
and it's lord should be studied along with sign no. 6 ie. 
Virgo and it's lord Mercury. If all the four factors are 


144 


under malefic influence by association or aspect, then the 
limb no: 6 of the native i.e. the intestines are weak 
and as such the native suffers from such diseases as 
constination, dysentry, hernia, kidney trouble etc. (See 
horoscope No. 33) 


i2 


Fig. No. 33 


(10) Serious physical trouble and the sixth house. If the 
lord of the 6th house is posited in the 8th house, and is 
weak, it gives in it's own sub period and in the sub 
periods of the weak lords of the 2nd, 7th, 8th and 12th 
houses physical trouble of rather serious nature. If the 
sub period of the lord of the 6th falls in the main ruling 
period of a maraka} in the appropriate "KHANDA" or 
period of life, the native may meet his end on this earth. 
Apart from this the 6th position anywhere is generally 
bad, as it denotes disease, opposition, enmity hurdles etc. 
Thus if the sub-period lord is 6th or 8th from the main 
period lord it creates many hurdles, in some cases 
removes one from the office that he is occupying and 
in serious cases causes death also. 


145 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE SIXTH HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the sixth house. Mars becomes the lord of 
the 1st and the 8th houses. We _ have already given 
the results for it while dealing with the 1st house. If 
Saturn is located in the 6th house, then Mars as the 
lord of the 6th house (the house of theft), 
as the karaka of theft and as lord of the sign occupied by 
saturn becomes a strong indicator of the habit of theft. 
Mars for Aries people should be studied in connection 
with the mode of death of the younger brother of the 
mother of the native, as the 6th house represents that 
relation, and Mars becomes the lord of the Ist and 
8th houses of that relation i.e. of the houses of his 
longivity. Since the sign Aries falls in the house of the 
younger brother of the mother of the native, it is easy 
to see that the lord of a particular sign considered from 
that house will also be the lord of the house of the 
same number and as such would represent, par exccelle- 
nce, the number of the limb in the body of the uncle, 
with the result that in the event of there being heavy 
affliction of any house and it's lord the trouble in _ the 
limb concerned is likely to be sure and serious. 


(2) Taurus in the sixth house. Venus becomes the lord 
of the 6th and the 11th houses. Both the 6th and the 
1] th houses are houses of injury. Hence if both Mars 
and Venus are throwing their influence by association or 
aspect on any house, that house is bound to suffer through 
injury. If both Mars and Venus are located in the 8th 
house and they throw their influence by association or 
aspect on the lord of the 8th house as well, then native 
meets his end through some injury or violence. If Saturn 
along with Venus throws it's influence on any house, 


146 


and it's lord there is likely to be disease in the limb 
represented by that house. For example if both Saturn 
and Venus are in the 5th house in the sign Aries, the 
native developes some chronic trouble in his belly. 
1fVenus for people under consideration is strong they get 
quite a good number of elder sisters, as Venus female 
planet becomes lord of the 11th house. But the strength 
is not conducive to wealth. 


(3) Gemini in the sixth house. Mercury becomes the 
lord of the 6th and the 9th houses. If Mercury is strong 
the native has quite a number of younger brothers to his 
mother. If Mercury is weak and afflicted contrary is the 
case, and the career of the native is impaired through 
his enemies. He suffers at the hands of labourers, servants 
and the like. Ifboth Mercury and Jupitor are afflicted 
by the influence of malefic planets, like Mars the life of 
the elder brother of the native is cut short, for the reason 
that the 6th house is the house of the longivity of the 
11th (elder brother), and malefic influence on Jupitor 
and Mercury means such influence on the lord of the 
house of longivity of the elder brother as well as on the 
significator of the elder brother. 


(4) Cancer and the sixth house. A strong Moon is 
conducive to the good number of sisters to the mother. 
If weak the number is very small indeed. A _ weak 
Moon indicates trouble in the chest of the younger 
brother of the native's mother, as the sign cancer repre- 
sents chest. IfMoonis strong and well aspected the 
native is fair and kind even to his enemies. If Moon is 
in the 8th house, the native is contaminated with vice and 
engages himself in dubious acts. 


147 


(5) Leo in the sixth house. If the Sun is strong by 
house and sign position, it denotes good status of the 
younger brother of the mother of the native. His enemies 
are formidable and mighty. If the lord of the 6th 
house is weak, in the 8th house it gives disease etc. in 
it's period. 


(6) Virgo in the sixth house. The situation of Mercury 
in scorpio or Leo under the influence whether by association 
or by aspect of natural malefic planets and without the 
influence of natural benefic planets, causes "VIPREET 
RAJA YOGA”—which makes one very rich. <A weak 
Mercury is not conducive to the life of the younger 
brothers and sisters of the mother of native. The 
association or link of Mercury coupled with the afflic- 
tion of the 6th house by such disease causing factors as 
Saturn and Rahu, causes such troubles of the intestines 
as Hernia, typhoid, appendicitis etc. 


(7) Libra in the sixth house. If Venus is strong the 
younger brothers of the mother of the native stand to 
gain financially etc. Contrary is the case if Venus is weak. 
The planet that influences the most the planet Venus 
and the 6th house denotes the cause of the death of the 
younger brother to the mother ofthe native. As _ strong 
Venus denotes a good number of the younger sisters to 
the mother of the native. If Venus is under _ beneficy 
influence, the native treats even his enemies with con- 
sideration and love. 


(8) Scorpio and the sixth house. Mars becomes the lord 
of the 11th and the 6th houses. Mars in himself is a 
planet that loves violence. His lordship of the house of 
violence viz. the 6th makes Mars still more violent. A 


148 


further measure of violence is added to Mars by virtue of 
his ownership of the 11th house, which being 6th from 
the 6th again represents violence. If by chance Ketu 
also occupies the 6th or the Lith house, Mars becomes 
violent to the extreme degree, for it then represents the 
violent nature o7 Ketu as well. It is thus clear that the 
extent to which the Ist and the 4th houses and their 
lords are under the influence of such a Mars to that extent 
there will be violence in the nature of the native. We 
can thus see, for example, that if such a Mars occupies 
the sign Gemini in first house, and the lord of the 4th 
house and Moon are aspected by Mars it will impart 
violent character to the lagna the 4th house and the 
Moon, and as such will make the native a robber or a 
murderer. 


(9) Saggitarius in the sixth house. Jupitor although it 
owns the 6th house is in the last analysis some what 
though not much benefic in effect due to his lordship of 
the 9th house. A strong Jupitor indicates a good number 
of uncles. If Jupitor is weak it indicates some lasting 
loss from some Brahmin enemy. 


(10) Capricorn in the sixth house. The younger brother 
of the mother of the native has harsh speech, for Saturn 
becomes the lord of the second house (Speech) from the 
6th house. A strong Saturn is not conducive to wealth. 
Saturn located in the 8th or the 2nd house causes 
phusical trouble to the native during it's dasha 
and bhukti. A strong Saturn of course indicates that 
there is a good number of younger sisters to the mother of 
the native. 


(11) Acquarius in the sixth house. If Rahu also happens 
14¢ 


to be in the 6th house, saturn brings some chronic dis- 
ease to the native particularly when Mercury lord of the 
lagna tot is weak. In sucha case the adverse results 
for the body are sometimes due to the curse of the 
"beloved", arising out of the rejection of her claims to 
love. The 5th is the house of the "Lady love" in a 
male horoscope and hence Saturn lord of the 6th house 
represents her adverse speech. (Curse). 


(12) Pisces in the sixth house. The weakness of Jupitor 
is a desirable feature here, for Jupitor assumes the lord- 
ship of two evil houses viz. the 3rd and the sixth. A 
strong Jupitor shows the existance of and benefit from 
younger brothers and uncles. But the relation or link 
by association or aspect of Jupitor with the lord of the 


second and the 11th houses creates financial stringency 
and debt. 


150 


The seventh house 


(1) Urge cf sex and the seventh house. If Mars is 
linked to the 7th house, it's lord and Venus the native is 
oversexed. An exchange between the lord of the 12th 
and the 7th houses also makes one "Over sexed", as 
both these houses stand for "SEX" and sexual "enjoy- 
ment." Excess of Sex, therefore, results on the principle 
of similarity of traits. The author of "DEVA 
KERALAM" has opined that :- “Ifthe lord of the 7th 
house occupies the 12th the native is sex ridden". He 
has no regard for ttme or day even in relation to his 
own wife. For example if the ascendant be scorpio and 
Venus is located in Libra in the 12th house a _ yoga for 
being ridden with sex arises. Similarly Venus situated 
in it's own sign taurus in the 7th house also creates 
conditions for being oversexed, for the lord of the house 
of enjoyments of the pleasure of the bed (12th) is in 
the house of sex (7th). In our experience we have 
found that if the lord of the Sth house also takes part 
in the yoga the native is over sexed all the more: 


(2) Love marriage and the seventh house. As a general 
rule th? tim? of mirriage dep2nds on the nature of the 
planet that is lord of the 7th house. If Mercury is the 
lord of the 7th house marriage takes place in the 16th 


151 


year of ones’ lite. IfMars is the lord of the house it 
takes place in the 18th year of one's life. If Venus is 
the said lord marriage takes place in the 20th year of 
of the native's life. If Moon happens to be lord of the 
7th house, one is married at the age of 22. When 
Jupitor owns the 7th house, it brings about marriage in 
the 24th year. Sun having that owenrsip brings about 
marriage in the 26th years of one's life. If Saturn is the 
lord of the 7th house, in a horoscope one gets married in 
his 28th year of life: It is thus clear that people with 
Sagittarius or Pisces as their ascendant get married early. 
The figures for year of marriage given above constitute a 
general rule and are applicable to a male nativity. In 
the horosocope of a female the time of marriage is 2 years 
less in each case. In female nativities the average years 
for different lords of the 7th houses are :- Mercury 14, 
Mars 16. Venus 18, Moen 20, Jupitor 22, Sun 24, and 
Saturn 26, It should also be noted that the averages iu 
the case of both the sexes are subject to medification. 
That modification is as follows :- In the horoscopes of 
Males, the influence of malefic planets on the 7th house, 
it's lord and Venus-the significator for wife would delay 
the marriage and bring it about later than the average 
stated for the various planets. If the three factors are 
influenced by association or aspect, by benefics, the marri- 
is hastened and comes about earlier than the average 
indicated above. The delay or hastening as the case may 
be, is 2 years for the association of malefic and _benefic 
planets and 4 years for the aspect of malefic or benefic 
planets respectively. In other words if a natural benefic 
planet is associated with any of three factors for 
marriage (7th house it's lord and it's significator) the 
marriage is hastened by 2 years for each such associa- 
tion. If a natural benefic planet aspects any of the 


152 


said three factors, the marriage is hastened by 4 years 
in each case (The influence of aspect being more than 
that of association). Similary if a natural malefic 
planet is associated with any of the three factors, the 
delay in each case is of 2 years from the average, and in 
the case of malefic aspect such delay in each case is 
4 years from the average stated above, In this manner 
the year of marriage should be worked out on the basis 
of the average given for the lord of the 7th house as 
modified by the  benefic or malefic influence on 
the 7th house, it's lord and Venus in male nativities and 
on the 7th house, it's lord and Jupitor (husband) in the 
case of female nativities. The final decision in regard 
to the time of marriage should be determined by ensur- 
ing that the main and the sub ruling period in the 
“VIMSHOTTARI DASA" - system obtaining at the 
year woked out in the above manner is also suitable for 
marriage. (For details please see our book "HORA 
SHATAK”), The average years of marriage in the 
above discussion are based on the "NATURAL" ages 
of various planets as mentioned in the astrological texts, 
after applying the key of symbolism. Mercury as it's very 
name "KUMAR" signifies is a boy. It has been alotted 
the least number and it therefore. causes very early 
marriage. Saturn on the other hand is very old man 
and as such it brings about marriage last of all other 
planets as we have observed in "HORA SHATAK". 


* Somatmajo Bhaumo Bhrigushcha somo 
Devendra Pujyo Arkah Tatha Cha Mandah 
Kramen Kalasya Dishanti Matram Saumyastu 
Swalpo Mandastu Deergah”, 

Translation Mercury, Mars, Venus Moon, Jupitor 
and Saturn denote the measure of time in the ascending 


153 


order. Mercury the least and Saturn the greatest of it. 
It was perhaps after keeping in view the traits of Mercu- 
ry asa "KUMAR" or boy that the celebrated author of 
‘DEVA KERALAM'" stated :- 


"Granthantare Meen Lagne Swa Kshetre Som 
Nandane Ati Balye Vivaha Syat Sampat Daye 
Shubhe Khage". 


Translation. Another author has opined that if birth 
takes place in the pisces ascendant and Mercury is in 
his own sign in the 7th house the native is married very 
early in life in the ruling period of a benefic having the 
sccond dasa from birth. Another yoga for early marri- 
age is the mutual relation or link by association or 
aspect of* the lords of the Ist and the 7th houses .. In 
this connection the author of "SARVARTHA CHINTA- 
MANI" is of the opinion that ifthe lord of the 7th and 
the 1st house are close to each other in degreecal position, 
one gets married early in life. We think that this is only 
a partial truth, for the time of marriage depends not only 
on the lord of the 7th house i.e. on the nature of influen- 
ce received by it but also on the nature of influnence 
received by the 7th house and its significator (Venus, 
for males and Jupitor for females) (See horoscope No. 
34 & 35) 


(6) High family of wife or the husband and the 7th 
huose. Ifthe lord of the 7th house ina male chart is a 
high class planet, which is in association with or under 
the aspect of benefic planets indicative of "VALUE", 
one marries in a high class family such as that of a 
king or an aristocrat. For example if acquarius be the 
ascendant and Sun is under the aspect of Moon and 


154 


Fig. No. 34 Fig. No. 35 


Jupitor, in a male chart, the native is married to the 
daughter ofa Raja or a nawab ie. of a highly placed 
person. The reason is (a) Sun is himself the king among 
the planets and as such as the lord of the 7th house 
represents high class in-laws, (b} Moon strong in 
"PAKSHA BALA" will be aspecting tke Sun as a friend 
and as a great benefic. (c) Jupitor aspecting the sun 
would not only be aspecting as a natural benefic and 
significator of wealth and value, but it would also be the 
lord of two houses of wealth viz the 2nd and the 11th, 
and would thus represent "VALUE" and worth all the 
more. In this manner Moon and Jupiter would boost 
the already high qualities of the Sun and bring about 
marriage in afamily that is very high in status and 
wealth (See horoscope no : 35) 

(7) Divorce and the 7th house. When two or more 
of the "seperative” planets viz the Sun, Saturn and Rahu 


and the lord of the 12th house are influencing by associa- 
tiou or aspect the usual three factors denoting the 


155 


partner in life i.e. the 7th house it's lord and Venus 
(WIFE' in the case of a male birth chart) and the 7th 
house, it's lord and Jupitor (husband in the case of 
female birth charts') there is seperation between the 
husband and the wife. Divorce is one shape of such a 
Seperation. It takes place in the very _ starting 
period of one's married life if (i) Mercury happens to be 
the lord ofthe 7th house, for Mercury is "KUMAR" 
and is known to give it's good or bad effects early in life 
(ii) The seperative influence is, on three factors for the 
partner in life ie. the 7th house it's lord and Venus 
(In the case of male charts) and Jupitor (In the case of 
female charts) (See horoscope no. 34 & 35). Most of 
the rules regarding marriage are applicable to business 
partnership as well. 


(8) Wife's beauty and the 7th house. A man _ having 
an even sign in the 7th house with Venus and the lords 
of the 7th house from the lagna and the Moon also 
situated in the even sign gets a charming wife with 
complete feminine grace. 


(9) Wealth from In-laws and the 7th house. If the lord 
of the 7th house and Venus are situated together in 
5th, 9th or the 11th house, the native gains considerably 
financially from his in-laws. In regard to the beauty of 
women the author of SARAVALI opeines :- 


SPrakritistha Lagnendvo Sam _ Bhe Sat Shell 
Rupadhya, Bhushan Gunai Rupeta Shubha 
Veekshityoshtha Yuvati Syat". 


Translation. When in a female birth chart the lagna 
and the Chandra lagna fall in an even sign and are well 


156 


aspected the lady is beautiful as Will as wealthy and of 
good character. 


(10) ‘Multimarriages and the seventh house. If in a 
male chart the lords of the 12th houses and the Sth 
house and Rahu have their influence on the 6th house 
and its lord, by association or aspect, and the lord of 
the 7th house is strongly placed in the house of gains 
such as the 1Ith house, one has many women as wives 
ata time. The reason is that considered from the 7th 
house, the lords of the 12th and the 5th houses would 
be respectively the lords 6£the 6th and the 11th houses 
from the 7th. Thus the 12th house from the house of wife 
would receive three foreign influences of the 6th & 11th 
houses along with foreign influence of Rahu. The 6th 
house from the lagna being the 12th house from the 
house of the wife denotes the "pleasures of the bad" of 
the wife. Foreign influence thereon would naturally 
make those pleasures foreign, which means in other 
words that the pleasures of the bed of the wife of the 
native would be shared by other women, which is _ tant- 
amount to having many wives at a time. 


(11) Defect of owning kendras and the 7 th hosel. For 
people having Virgo and Pisces as their ascendants, 
Jupitor and Mercury own two kendras in the horoscope 
viz the 4th and the 7th. When these two palnets in their 
respective charts are located in 2nd, 6th, 7th, 8th or 
12th house in a weak condition, they bring about disease 
and trouble in their dasa and bhukti. The same remarks 
apply to the weak position of Jupitor and Mercury for 
the Gemini and Saggitarius people. 


(12) Markesha and the 7th house. If the lord of the 
7th house is weak and situated in the 2nd, 6th, 8th or 


157 


12th house, it works as a markesha i.e. a planet capable 
of killing the native. The 7th house being the 12th 
from the 8th—the house of longivity, denotes abscence 
of longivity i.e. death, and as such the situation of the 
lord of the 7th house in similar evil houses, stated above 
would lead to death. 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE 7th HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the 7th house. Mars becomes the lord of 
the 7th and the 2nd houses. A strong Mars denotes long 
life for partner in life i.e. wife or husband as the case may 
be. On the cotrary if Mars is weak, the wife or husband 
gets short life. Since the sign Aries i.e. the first sign of the 
zodiac falls in the 7th house-the house of the partner in 
life, it is easy to see that in the event of any house and 
it's lord being weak and afflicted there are greater 
chances for the wife or the husband to suffer from trouble 
in the limb of the body denoted by the sign or house 
afflicted, as all the relevant factors denoting the the limb 
would be weak and affiicted: Mars is double markesha 
as it is lord of two maraka houses viz the 2nd and the 
7th and as such it's weakness particularly in the 6th, 8th 
and 12th houses would lead to much physical trouble 
in it's dasa and bhukti. 


(2) Taurus in the 7th house. If taurus falls in the 7th 
house and Venus is strong, it ensures long life to the 
wife of the native. If Venus occupies the 7th 5th or the 
12th house, native is ridden with sex as all these three 
houses denote sex in some measure or other, and their 
mutual association brings about the undesirable results 
in regard to sex. The person has to incur much expendi- 
ture on his wife as Venus the significator of wife himself 


158 


owns the house of expenditure and links it to the 7th 
house, - the house of wife. IfRahu is located in Capri- 
com in the 3rd house and Saturn lord of that house 
aspects Venus located in his own sign in the 7th house, 
the native developes marital or sexual contacts with 
other women, inspite of his being a married man. The 
reason is that Rahu is a foreign planet. Saturn as lord 
of the 4th house and as lord of the sign occupied by 
Rahu represents "OTHER WOMEN" It's link by 
aspect with all factors of wife would naturally lead to 
the marital and sexual aberration referred to above. 


(3) Gemini in the 7lh house. If Gemini falls in the 
7th house in a female nativity and Jupitor and Mercury 
are afflicted, by the influence, by association or aspect, 
of Saturn, Rahu and Sun (Any two of them would do.), 
then there is seperation of the lady from her husband 
soon after marriage. The reason for the early sepera- 
tion lies primarily in the afflication at the hands of 
"Seperative" planets of Mercury-who is known to give 
it's good or bad results earlier than all other planets 
similarly situated. The affliction of Jupitor-the  signi- 
fcator of husband at the hands of the same _ seperative 
factors would hasten the seperation between the couple 
all the more. Asa result of above noted trait af Mer- 
cury people having Gemini in their 7th house marry 
early in life provided, of course, Mercury lord of 7th 
house is strong and not afflicted by malefic influence. 
If, however, Mercury is under malefic influence, and 
Venus (in male nativities) and Jupitor (in female nati- 
vities) are also afflicted, then there is delay in marriage 
even when Gemini is in the 7th house. It would be seen 
that being 8th from the 12th, the 7th house represents the 
longivity of the 12th house i.e. of the mother of the father 


159 


of the native. Hence if Mercury and the 7th house are 
very weak, the grand mother of the native is short 
lived. 


(4) Cancer in the 7th house. Tf Moon and Venus both 
occupy even signs and are well aspected, the native gets 
a beautyful wife full of feminine charm, A strong Moon 
away from the Sun, of course indicates long life for the 
wife. If Moon is in the 12th house one is fond of 
luxuries and sex. 


(5) Leo in the Ith house. Sun being the lord of the 
7th house, wife bécomes bold, influential, and aristocra- 
tic in nature. If Sun is weak, wife is short lived, but in 
such a matter weakness of Venus is also a necessary condi- 
tion. If Sun is aspected by Moon and a strong Jupitor, 
the wife or husband- as the case may be, belongs to a 
high family say of Raja or nawab. Ifthe Sun is strong 
the native wins favours from the govt: as Sun himself is 
a governmental planet and becomes the lord of the house 
10th to 10th (i.e. Govt:) 


(6) Virgo in the 7th house. Ina male chart, if both 
Mercury and Venus are under the influence, by associa- 
tion or aspect, of seperative planets Sun Saturn and 
Rahu (influence of any two of them will do) there are 
strong chances for separation taking place beween wife 
and the husband, soon after the marriage, for the reason 
already stated viz the nature of Mercury to give quick 
results. If Mercury is strong the wife is educated and 
accomplished and is very much respected in society. 
The native himself too is popular particularly in literary 
matters as Mercury becomes for him, the lord of the 
4th house and the house 4th to 4th. (7). 


160 


(7) Libra in the Seventh House. Venus the rignificator 
of wife also becomes the lord of the house of wife. Hence 
all influences on Venus and the 7th house are very telling 
in effect on wife. If Venus and the 7th house are strong 
and well aspected the wife is long living, highly polished, 
beautiful, graceful and accomplished in arts etc. Ifon 
the other hand, Venus and the 7th house are weak and 
afflicted, she is short lived, ugly ete. It would be seen 
that Venus being the lord of the 7th house and the house 
8th from the 7th, represents par excellence, the longivity 
of wife and as such benefic influence on Venus would 
naturally be conducive to the longivity of wife. If Venus 
is located in the 5th house or the 12th house, it would 
create a link between the 7th house and other houses of 
sex and enjoyments and as such would make the native 
ridden with sex. If the birth chart belongs to a lady and 
Venus and Saturn are very strong, her husband becomes 
lucky and rich, for both Venus and Saturn are Raja Yoga 
karakas for libra which falls in the house of husband. 


(8) Scorpio in the Seventh House. If Mars is strong the 
wife or husband represented by the 7th house lives long. 
A weak and afflicted Mars is instrumental in causing 
much expenses on the wife of the native. If Mars and 
Venus occupy the Sth and the 12th house the native is 
ridden with sex. If the horoscope belongs to a female 
and both Mars and Saturn afflict the Lagna as well as 
the lord of the lagna, then the husband of the lady is 
very hard and cruel towards her, for the reason that 
Mars represents the "self" of the husband as lord of the 
7th house and Saturn represents the arms (deliberate self) 
of the husband again, being lord of the 3rd house from 
the 7th. Both are cruel and would be influencing Venus 
a representative in itself of wife both as Venus and as 


161 


lord of lagna in the female nativity. Venus and Ist 
house under seperative influence causes stirilization of 
wife in a male horoscope (See horoscope no. 36). 


Fig. No. 36 


(9) Sagittarius in the Seventh House. Tf the birth chart 
belongs ta a lady, Jupitor would be double representative 
of husband, firstly as lord of the 7th house and secondly as 
significator of husband. It is clear that any malefic influe- 
nee on Jupitor would be felt simultaneously by two repre- 
sentative factors of the husband who will consequently 
suffer in the matter of health and finance: A strong and 
well aspected Jupitor, on the contrary would cause long life 
to the husband as well as prosperity to him. Ina male 
horoscope a strong Jupitor would indicate a long living 
wife, if Venus also is strong. If Jupitor is weak it gives 
it's bad effects in regard to it's ownership oftwo kendras. 
A weak Jupitor located in such bad houses as the 2nd, 
the 6th, the 8th or the 12th causes serious disease in it's 
dasa and bhukti. Ifthe horoscopes belongs to a male and 
Jupitor is strong, the native is in the very good books of 
the govt; and enjoys ruling powers, for Jupitor—the signi- 
ficator of “favour from Govt." himself becomes the 


162 


lord of two houses i.e. 10th and the 10th to 10theach of 
which represents the govt. 


(10) Capricorn in the Seventh House. Saturn becomes 
the lord of the 7th and the 8th houses. This makes the 
wife of the native harsh in speech. She is also full of 
anger as she has Saturn as the lord of her lagna and Mars 
as the lord of the house of her mind (i.e. 4th from 7th) 
unless, of course Mars and Saturn are under benefic 
influence, by associaton or aspect. Saturn as the lord of 
the 7th house makes wife a very hard working lady. She 
generally does not belong to a very high family unless, of 
course, Saturn has on it much benefic influence. A strong 
Saturn, of course, indicates long life for the wife, for 
Saturn the significator of longivity himself becomes the 
lord of the 7th house=the house of wife. If Venus is 
located in the 12th house, the wife of the native is long 
lived, even if Mars be aspecting the 7th house from the 
lagna, for Venus feels very happy and strong in congenial 
atmosphere in the house of enjoyments (12th). The 
bhukti of Saturn is not beneficial. It may on the other 
hand be very harmful, particularly in the dasa of Venus 
or vice versa, for both Venus and Saturn are malefic and 
adverse/planets for cancer nativities according to the 
basic rules adumberated by Maharshi Parashar. 


(11) Aquarius and the Seventh House. Saturn becomes 
the lord of the 6th and the 7th houses. Saturn is a bad 
planet for leo nativities. The sub period of Saturn in the 
main ruling period of venus destroys wealth as well as 
health, because both Saturn and Venus are enemies of the 
lord of the lagna. The wife in such cases generally 
belongs to a family that is lower in status than that of the 
native, particularly in cases where Saturn is without the 
benefic influence of Jupitor Moon etc. 


163 


(12) Pisces in the Seventh House. In female nativities 
Jupitor lord of the 7th house assumes a very important 
and significant role. For example a strong aspect of Mars 
on Jupitor can kill the husband soon, and a strong aspect 
of Saturn and Rahu etc. can bring about the seperation 
from her husband. In such nativities Jupitor suffers from 
the defect of ownership of two kendras in the horoscope. 
Hence a weak Jupitor situated in the 8th, 12th, 2nd or 
the 6th house (bad houses from the point of view of 
health) gives much physical trouble in it's main and sub 
ruling periods. If Jupitor is strong the native is quite 
rich and leads a comfortable life, as it then becomes the 
lord of both the houses of comfort viz. the 4th and the 
4th to the 4th. 


164 


The Eighth House 


(1) Longivity and the Eighth House. The 8th house is 
as much a_ house of longivity as the first. The stronger 
it is the longer is the life of the native. We do not agree 
with the view expressed by the author of “PHALA 
DEEPIKA" in regard to the question of longivity when 
he says :- 


“Kendrat Anyatra Randhreshe Lagneshad Dur- 
bale Sati Nidhanam Vighno Na Klesho Nrinam 
Ayush Chiram Bhavet". 


Translation. If the lord of the 8th house is located in 
a house other than a kendra and is weaker than the lord 
ofthe Ist house the native is free from hurdles and 
troubles and is long lived. 


Since the 8th house stands for longivity, the weakness 
of the lord of the 8th house in the manner stated in the 
shloka would, in our opinion, be a cause for short life of 
the native and not for good longivity as stated by ‘Phal 
Deepika". 


(2) Extent ofLongivity and the Eighth House. In order 
to have a broad assessment of longivity of a person, the 
examination of the following factors in the horoscope is 
essential :- 


165 


(a) The strength of the lagna and it's lord. 
(b) The strength of the 8th house and it's lord. 


(c) The strength of Saturn—the significator of longi- 
vity. 


(d) The strength of the lord of the house 8th to 8th 
i.e. ofthe lord of the 3rd house, on the principle of 
"BHAVAT BHAVAM". If two out of the 4 factors 
stated above are weak, the native gets short life upto the 
age of a maximum of 32 years. If3 out of the 4 factors 
are strong, the native gets medium life upto a maximum of 
64 years and if all the 4 factors are strong the native lives 
beyond a minimum of 64 years. In assessing the longivity 
care should however be taken to see that Moon and Mer- 
cury are not extremely weak. For the extreme weakness of 
these planets brings about untimely death in the very start- 
ing period of life inspite of the strength of the lord of the 
ascendant and Saturn. After having decided the cate- 
gory, short medium or long of a native, the ruling period 
of the markesha should be determined in _ that 
category and the final figure of longivity arrived at (See 
horoscope no. 37). 


a 
Fig. No. 37 


ONS 


166 


(3) Mode of Death and the Eighth House. The house of 
longivity itself is the house of death also, for death is only 
a negation or variation of longivity. Hence the factors 
for the determination of longivity would be the Ist and 
the 8th houses and their lords. The nature of influence 
received by these four factors would denote the mode of 
death of a person (See horoscope no. 38}. If, for example, 


Fig. No. 38 


the 8th house and it's lord are under the influence, by 
association or aspect, of the lord of the ascendant, the 
lord of the 3rd house and the lord of the 11th house the 
native commits suicide. Suicide being death at one's own 
hand the yoga would be appropriate as the lord of the 
Ist, 3rd and the [ lth houses all stand for the "“self" of 
man being representative of the bodv as a whole, right 
and left arms respectively. If the lord of the 6th and the 
1]th houses and Mars are influencing the 8th house and 
it's lord, the cause of death is injury or violence (See 
horoscope no. 29). 


(4) Markesha and the 8th house. the lord of the 
8th house is weak and is situated in the 2nd, 6th, 7th or 


167 


the 12th house, it causes much disease or physical trouble 
in its main or sub ruling periods. Ifthe native is passing 
through the maximum period of his longivity, as ascer- 
tained in the manner indicated in para 2 above, the sub 
period of the said weak lord of the 8th house can cause 
death also. We give below a list of the planets that can 
cause death in their ruling periods. The first in the list 
is the greatest killer from the point of view of the intensity 
of it's harmful effects while the last in the list is also 
killer but the least ofall. In the appropriate maximum 
period of life, however, each of them causes death. 


(a) A malefic planet associated with the lord of 
the 2nd house, (By malefic planet is meant a malefic 
planet who is determined as such on the basis of it's 
lordship according to the rules laid down by 
PARASHARA, 


(b) A malefic planet as defined above located with 
the lord of the 7th house. 

(c) A malefic planet situated in the 2nd house. 

(d) A malefic planet situated in the 7th house. 

(e) Lord of the 2nd house. 

(f) Lord of the 7th house. 

(g) Lord of the 12th house. 

(h) Malefic planet situated with the lord of the 
12th house. 

(i) Lords of the 3rd and the 8th houses. 

(j) Lords of the 6th and the IIth houses. 

(k) Malefic planets. 


(5) Vipreet Raja Toga and the 8th house. If the lord of 
the 8th house is located in the 12th, 3rd or the 6th house 
and is aspected by malefic planets lord of these houses, 


168 


and is not influenced either by association or aspect by 
any of the benefic planets, it will in it's dasa or sub 
period give excellent results in regard to the acquisition 
of power and affluence etc.—results attributable to the 
"VIPREET RAJA YOGA." 


(6) Sun in the 8th house. If sun is located in the 8th 
house and is weak say in an inimical sign, and is aspected 
by Mars and Rahu, it proves very injurious to the eye 
of the father of the native, for the reason that the Sun 
represents the eye and occupies the worst house \i/ the 
8th, and becomes all the more weak being in the 12th 
house from that of the father (9th). 


(7) Other planets in the 8th house. If the Sun is 
influenced by malefic planets and is without the aspect 
etc. of any benefic planet, it brings about trouble in the 
bones of the native. Moon similarly situated brings 
about trouble in the blood such as blood pressure, want 
of blood etc. Mars similarly situated in the the 8th 
causes atrophy of the muscles. (See Horscope no. 39) 
Mercury situated in that position in the 8th house brings 
about asthma. Jupitor in similar position causes kidney 
and liver troubles. Venus in that position brings about 
many types of sexual troubles. Saturn in that house 
without good influence and in an inimical sign brings 
about nervous trouble. (See Horscope no. 40) 


(8) Harsh wife and the 8th house. The 8th house 
repri sents the speech of the wife and hence the nature 
of hei speech should be examined from this house. If 
the lord of the 8th house is Sun etc. and is well aspected 
she will be sweet tongued. On the other hand if the 
lordship of the 8th house goes to Saturn aud Satura is 


169 


devoid of all benefic influence the wife possesses "HARSH" 
speech. 


(9) Foreign travel and the 8th house. The 8th house is 
"watery" house and represents the sea. The crossing 
of the seas has been considered as "Foreign travel". 
When the 8th house and it's lord is under the influence 
of malefic planets the yoga for foreign travel arises. In 
regard to the location of the Sun in the 8th house, the 
author of "SARAVALI" says "BHRAMYATI DESHAT 
DESHAM" i.e. such a native roams from one country to 
another. This confirms that "Foreign Travel" relates 
to the 8th house. 


(10) Research and the 8th house. The 8th house 
relates to adventure as well as to research as it is a deep 
and subtle house. The lord of the 8th house and that of 
3rd house when a benefic planet, if situated in the lagna 
or the 5th house the man becomes a deep thinker, a 
philosopher or a research worker. He may hit upon 
some new discovery in the field in which he is engaged. 
As for examble if Libra be the ascendant and Venus 
the lord of the 8th house and Jupitor the lord of the 3rd 
house are together in the 5th house the native becomes 
a great discoverer, for the reason that there has been an 
intimate contact of the thinking principle (the 5th house) 
with research and deep thought. People who have some 
invention or discovery at their credit are generally well 
versed in mathematics. Mathematics is a deep and 
subtle subject. Itis probably due to this fact that the 
association of deep and philosophical Saturn with the 8th 
house generally makes a native good in mathematics. 


(11) Destruction and the 8th house. The 8th house is 
170 


the house of destruction. Itis also called the house of 
death. A planetin this house proves injurious to the 
prospects of the house over which it has lord-hip, includ- 
ing the prospecis of life. For example if the lord of the 5th 
house is located in the 8th house the native is most likely 
to lose one of his sons. Similarly if Jupitor be the lord of 
the 11th house and is situated in the 8th house, the elder 
brother of the native if born is most likely to be short 
lived. The lord of the 8th house also harms the life 
prospects etc. of the house in which it may be situated. 
For example if it is situated in the 5th house there is 
danger to the life of one of the sons of the native. The 
8th position as such is also not free from it's sinster effects. 
For example if Acquarius be the ascendant and Mars be 
located in scorpio in the 10th house, the location of 
Mars in it's own sign in the 10th kendra even though 
would give him younger brothers stil the fact that Mars 
would be 8th from it's house i,e¢. the 3rd house, would 
lead to the destruction of most younger brothers of the 
native, particularly if Mars is aspected also by a malefic 
planet. 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE 8th HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the 8th house. Mars becomes the lord of 
the 3rd and the 8th house. Both are houses of longivity. 
Hence if Mars is strong the native is long lived. The 
nature of the influence exerted on the 8th house and 
Mars denotes the mode of death of the native. If Mars is 
located in the 10th house one commits much sin, parti- 
cularly in youth. 


(2) Taurus in the 8th house. Venus becomes the lord 
of the 1st and the 8th house. If Venus is strong it be- 


171 


stows long life on the native. Ifit is weak, and afflicted 
it makes the native short lived. The nature of influence 
exerted on the Ist, 8th house and on Venus denotes the 
mode of death of the native. The sub period of Venus 
does not give bad effects because of the simultaneous 
lordship of the lagna by Venus. 


Gemini in the 8th house. If Mercury happens te 
be weak and afflicted the native may die in his boyhood, 
or even earlier for Mercury is known to give quick results. 
Ifthe 3th house and Mercury are afflicted by natural 
malefics the native travels overseas early in life. If 
Mercury occupies the sign Aries in the 6th house, it 
. Altses disease or trouble in its sub period as it occupies 
the house of disease, as lord of the house of death. 


4 Cancer and the 8th house. Moon becomes the lord 
of the 8th house. According to the texts Moon does not 
suffer from the defect of the ownership of the 8th house. 
In other word if Moon is strong and is well aspected, 
it bestows wealth: honour etc. in it's dasa and bhukti. If 
on the other hand Moon is weak and afflicted it may 
cause sudden death in very early chidhood. 


5 Leo in the 8th house. Sun becomes the lord of the 
8th h'>use. The sun does not suffer from the defect of 
the ownership of the 8th house. In other words Sun if 
strong bestows wealth and honour in it's dasa and 
bhukti. The mode of death (suicide. accident, violence 

should be determined from the nature of the 
influence being received by the 8th house and Sun 


(6; Virgo in the 8th house. Mercury becomes the lord 
of the house no: 5 and !!. As an independent planet 


172 


Mercury is not very auspicious as even though one of 
it's signs falls in kona in the Sth house, it's Mool 
trikina sign falls in the 8th house (worst house). If 
Mercury is weak and afflicted one is liable to suffer from 
loss of conciousness during it's dasa or bhukti. The native 
also suffers losses through his progeny. One also suffers 
physically in the boyhood. This is a yoga for early over- 
seas travel also. 


(7) Libra in the Eighth House. Venus becomes the lord 
of the 3rd and the 8th houses. Both are houses of longi- 
vity. * Hence a strong Venus is conducive to longivity. 
The nature of influence on the 8th house and Venus 
denotes the mode of death of the native. A weak and 
afflicted Venus brings about disgrace through friends and 
younger brothers. 


(8) Scorpio in the Eighth House. Mars becomes the lord 
of both the 8th house and sign no. 8. If there is malefic 
influence on the 8th house and on Mars the native suffers 
from trouble in the scrotem or from such diseases as relate 
to the area in question 8th). A strong Mars is of course 
conducive to longivity as the Ist and the 8th houses over 
which Mars has lordship are houses oflongivity. Wa 
strong Saturn aspects both the ascendant and the 8th 
house one is liable to commit violent crimes, for the 8th 
house is as much the life of "others" as it is of "self". It 
has besides a strong link with the house ofself rtzi the [st! 


(9) Sagittarius and the 8th House. Jupitor becomes the 
lord of the 8th and the [Ith houses. If Jupitor is strong 
but the 8th house is under strong malefic influence: one 
gains financially through transactions with foreign lands 
or the foreign people. IfJupitor is strong one lives long. 
The dasa or bhukti ofJupitor does not give much wealth 


173 


as Jupitor's main sign viz Sagittarius falls in the worst 
house. 


(10) Capricorn in the Eighth House. Saturn becomes the 
lord of the 8th and the 9th houses. Although on the 
whole Saturn gives good results in it's dasa and bhukti 
due to the fact that it's main sign falls in the best kona 
viz the 9th house, still it does not give excellent results as 
the simultaneous lordship of the worst house (8th) detracts 
to some extent from it's capacity todo good. If Saturn 
is strong it gives long life to the native for two reasons. 
Firstly Saturn is lord of the house of longivity. Secondly 
it is significator of longivity. 


(11) Acquarius in the Eighth House. Saturn becomes the 
lord of the 7th and the 8th houses. If Saturn is strong 
it gives long life as it is lord of the house of longivity and 
also because it is the significator of longivity. The wife 
of the native is generally harsh of speech, unless Saturn 
has benefic influence on it. If Saturn is weak and afflicted 
the man can be disgraced by his own wife. Such a Saturn 
is not conducive to wealth as, Saturn by virtue of it's 
lordship over the 7th kendra ceases to be a malefic, but 
due to it's simultaneous lordship of the 8th house it 
becomes a malefic planet. If Saturn is weak it gives bad 
results in regard to finances, particularly in the dasa or 
bhukti of Venus. The reason is that both Saturn and 
Venus are enemies to Moon the lord of the lagna. 


(12) Pisces and the Eighth House. Jupitor becomes the 
lord of the 5th and the 8th houses. If Jupitor is strong 
he gains through his sons. Ifit is weak and afflicted one 
is liable to be disgraced at the hands of one's own pro- 
geny. A strong Jupitor is conducive to longivity, while 
a weak one gives short life. A weak Jupitor and an 
afflicted 8th house give overseas travels. 


174 


The Nineth House 


(1) Religious Life and the Nineth House. When an inti- 
mate link is established by the lord of the 9th house with 
the 1st house, or it's lord, one becomes both lucky and 
religious. If there is also an intimate link between the 
sign occupied by the Moon and it's lord on the one side, 
and the 9th house from the Moon and it's lord on the 
other side, one is still more lucky and religious. And if 
in addition there is an intimate link between the Sun and 
the lord of the sign occupied by the Sun on the one side, 
and the 9th house from the Sun and the lord of that house 
on the other, one is extraordinarily lucky as well as 
spiritual. The spiritual element reaches it's climax in 
such cases if along with the said intimate link between 
the lagna factors and the 9th house, and it's lord, there is 
the dispassion producing effect of Saturn on the 4th 
house, it's lord and Moon (the mind). (Please see the 
rare horoscope of a living Jeevan Mukta at the serial no. 
41). 


In this horoscope it would be seen that Jupitor the 
moral and spiritual planet and lord of the lagna fully 
aspects Mars the lord of the 9th house. From the Surya 
lagna, Sun the Atma Karaka, himself becomes the lord of 
the 9th house and occupies the Surya lagna. It is also 


175 


aspected by Jupitor thus creating an intimate link between 
the Surya lagna and the 9th house from it also. The lord 
of the sign occupied by Moon ie. Mercury is located in 
the house of spirituality riz the 9th house. The lord of 
the 9th house from Moon ie. Saturn is fully aspecting the 
Moon lagna. Added to all these wonderful yogas you 
will find that the planet of "Vairagya" ie. dispassion viz 
Saturn is fully aspecting all the factors that denote the 
mind viz the 4th house, it's lord Mercury and it"s signifi- 
cator Moon: thereby giving dispassion of the first order 
to this Mahatma in white clothes who lives in regions 
beyond the mind in “TURYA"' ie. ecstetic bliss practi- 
cally all the 24 hours. 


(2) Diviné Help and the Nineth House. The nineth is the 
house of divine grace, as this house is of religion and 
spirituality. Divine grace descends on moral and _ spiritual 
people. When the lord of the 9th house is strong and 
well aspected it indicates sudden gains through divine 
grace from the person or party indicated by the house it 
may be occupying. For example if the lord of the 9th 
house is strong and well aspected in the 10th house, it 
denotes the acquisition of ruling powers through divine 
grace as opposed to one's own efforts. Ifthe same is 
located in the 4th house one gets conveyances and other 
comforts of live. Ifit is in the 2nd house, one is destined 


to be rich. 


(3) Govt. Favour and the Nineth House. The 9th house 
stands for government favour. If the lord of this house 
happens to be a royal planet or one intimately linked ‘to 
royalty, such as the Sun, Moon or Jupitor and is strong 
and well aspected the native gains favour from the govt: 
in some shape or other. He may have powers as a ruler, 


176 


or he may be one of govt, officials or he may be outside 
the yovt. but may be favoured financially by the govt. 
ofthe day, through contracts e1e. (See horoscope no. 5). 


(4) Raja Toga and the Nineth'Houuse. According to the 
fundamental principles laid down by Maharshi Parashar, 
the father of Indian Astrology, the 9th house has been 
declared as the most benefic of all houses, it being the 
foremost of the konas. If there is an intimate link, 
through mutual aspect, exchange or location in the same 
sign ete., between the lord Of the 9th house and that of 
the 10th kendra, this link constitutes the best cf Raja 
Yogas ie. a yoga for affluence power and honour etc. (See 
horoscopes no. 42 and 43). 


(5) Planets in the Nineth House. When the Sun _ occu- 
pies the 9th house, it will naturally be in the lagna of the 
father. It is clear that if the 9th house and it's lord is 
strong, the father of the native will be wealthy honoured 
and long lived etc, for all the factors standing for the 
father will be strong and well aspected. On the contrary 
if the 9th house containing the Sun and it's lord is weak, 
the yoga denotes short life to the father, as well as ill 
health and poverty to him. For this very reason the 
native will have very little of paternal property. If Moon 
is strong and well aspected in the 9th house, the father of 
the native becomes rich, for this gives strength to the 
lagna of the father. Mars in the 9th house should be 
considered as weak and therefore harmful to the prospects 
uf the house over which it has lordship, unless, of course, 
Mars is well aspected. If Mercury occupies the 9th house 
and is strong it augers well for the house over which it 
has lordship. A _ strong Jupitor in the 9th house is con- 
ducive to longivity, sons, education etc. of the native. 


177 


Venus strong in the 9th house is conducive to the pros- 
pects of the house over which it has lordship. Saturn in 
the 9th house should be considered to be weak and as 
such not conducive to the prospects of the house over 
which it has lordship. In the 9th house Saturn makes 
one unorthodox and gives an attitude of opposition to 
the tenets of the religion in which one is bom, If there is 
a debilitated planet in the 9th house one is ostentatious in 
religious matters and is not religious in the true sense of 
the term. 


(6) Sons and the Nineth House. Tt:e9th house is very- 
much concerned in the problem of the determination of 
the number of sons one is likely to have. The reason is 
that the 9th house is 5th to 5th and as such acts as the 
5th house i.e. the house for sons. Ifthe lord of the 9th 
house is strong and aspected by even a moderately strong 
Jupitor, one is sure to have a son even if the 5th house 
and it's lord are totally weak. That the 9th house is also 
relevant to the question of male issues is confirmed by the 
author of "DEVA KERALAM", when he says :- 


"Bhagyadhip Dasa Kale Bhagya Vridhi Sutot- 
savah". 


Translation. During the dasa of the lord ofthe 9th 
house there is increase in one's fortune and one gets a 
son. 


(7) Sudden Income and the Nineth House. If one of the 
nodes i.e. Rahu or Ketu is located in the 9th house and 
the lagna contains Sun, Moon or both and the 9th house 
has in it one of the signs of Mercury, and Mercury is 
located in the 11th, Ist or the 5th house, well aspected, 


178 


the configuration indicates sudden and unexpected rise in 
fortune. Firstly when in any horoscope the lord of the 
9th house gets strength there is always an element of 
sudden and pleasurable surprise. Secondly when the 
lordthip of the 9th house goes to Mercury the tendency 
to give sudden results is increased, for Mercury by itself is 
known as "SADYA PRATAPI" ie. giver of sudden power. 
Thirdly as lord of the sign occupied by Rahu or Ketu, 
Mercury will have in it all the more the power to bring 
about quick and unexpected results, for Rahu and Ketu 
always give sudden and unexpected results. Thirdly 
since all these happenings will have reference to not 
merely one lagna but more than one lagna, the effects of 
the lord of the 9th house will be the effects of the 9th 
house from so many lagnas and as such will multiply the 
good effects. 


(8) Long Inland Travels and the Nineth House. WHILE 
THE 8th HOUSE IS THE HOUSE OF TRAVELS 
OVERSEAS THE 9TH HOUSE RELATES TO LONG 
TRAVELS INSIDE ONES OWN COUNTRY. Hence 
lord of the 9th house in it's dasa and bhukti would give 
long inland journeys. 


(9) Grand Sons and the Nineth House. The 5th from the 
lagna is the house for the sons. Hence the house for the 
grand sons is the house 5th to the Sth i.e. the 9th house. 
Ifthe 9th house and it's lord are strong one gets long 
living grand sons. 


(10) Sons from the second wife and the Nineth House. The 
second wife is considered from the 9th house. If the first 
wife is dead and a native has married for the second time, 
the question of the acquisition or otherwise of a son from 


179 


the second wife Will be Fonsidéred frou the Oth house and 
the Isi house, as the first house would beéameé the house 
of the sen ta the second wife. The author of "DEYA 
KERALAM" says in this connection :- 


"Bhagyadhip Dasa Kale Lagnadhipati Bhuktishu 
Darantare Suputra Prapti Raj Preeti Dhanagamah’; 


Translation. During the dasa of the lord of hed 
house and the bhukti of the lord of the lagna one gets 801 
from the keeond wife and there is also favour from the 
rave Fd tin reass Hfwe Ml 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE NINETH HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the Nineth}lase! Mars becomes the lord 
of the 9th and the Ith HouseSic. t becomes SiMe 
ously the lord of a kona 8tid a kendra. The Strorgei 
Mars is thé mora wealthy honoured and powerful the 
native Will become! This is a yoga that may be inter- 
preted as conducive to property acquired [uckil¥] The 
mother of the native will be long lived. He will rise high 
in life. He will also earn the good will of the govy of the 
day. Ifin thé horoscope any planet is extremely weak 
then the father of the native will have trouble in the limb 
denoted by the house over which that planet has lordship, 
particularly when the house concerned is also Weak 


(2) Taurus in Nineth House. Venus becomes the lord 
of the 9th and the 2nd house. Both of these are [hencfie 
houses. Hence if Venus is strong in the horoscope it 
gives much wealth in it's dasa and bhukti. It also miakes 
a person handsome and in the good books of the govt) of 
the day. Ifon the other hand, Venus is weak and afflict- 
ed it denotes loss of Wealth} set backs in carew find 


130 


reverses in dealings with the govt. MQ[hé native is also 
likely to suffer financially at the hands of his brother ins 
law ie. the younger brother of his wife. 


(3) Gemini in the ‘Nineth‘House) Oné ofthe epethets of 
Mercury is "VISHNU". When, therefore, Mercury is the 
lord of the 9th house, it becomes saturated with such high 
qualities of the 9th house as morality, spirituality, service 
etc. Hence when Mercury is located in the Ist house! or 
is linked to the lord of the Ist house it makes the native 
spiritually inclined, self sacrificing and unselfish. If Rahu 
or Ketu is in the 9th house and Sun or Moon is in the 
lagna, then a strong Mercury brings sudden and unex- 
pected gains such as an out of turn promotion, lottery, 
prize etc., for the reason that Mercury who by nature 
tends to give quick results gives such results all thé more- 
being lord of the Oth house and acting for Rahu or Ketu 
(suddenness) with reference to two lagnas. YEVenus is 
weak and afflicted, it causes not only set backs if career 
but is also dangerous to the life prospects of the elder 
sisters and brothers of the mother ofthe native for whom 
the 2nd house stands. 


(4) Cancer in the Nineth House. Moon the royal planet 
becomes the lord of the house connected with favour from 
the gwovti and as such, if strong confers ruling powers. If 
Moon is in the lagna but is away from the Sun and is not 
influenced by malefic planets, it still bestows wealth and 
morality on the native even though it occupies it's sign of 
debilitation. Moon represents the religious mind in such 
a case and it's link with the self (1st house) would natu- 
rally make the native Feligiou3 etc. If Moonis strong in 
paksha a Bala and is well aspected the native has quite a 
number of younger sisters to his wife or if id horoscope 


181 


belongs to a female, she has quite a number of younger 
sisters to her husband. 


(5) Leo in the Nineth House. The lordship of the 9th 
house by Sun may be interpreted to mean the native's 
destiny (9th house) is linked to ruling power (Sun). This 
will be so if Sun is strong and well aspected. The associa- 
tion of Sun with Mercury creates Raj yoga i.e. affluence 
and power. If Sun is strong one's wife has a number of 
younger brothers. Sun in Sagittarius makes one religious, 
as Sun a Satvik planet representing the soul becomes the 
lord of the house of religion and is linked to self. 


(6) Virgo in the Nineth House. Mercury becomes the 
lord of the 9th and the 6th houses. Since the Mool 
Trikona sign of Mercury falls in the 9th house it gives 
more of benefic results relating to the 9th house than 
malefic results relating to the 6th house. The native is 
unexpectedly brought into contact with people of foreign 
countries. One's career is linked to ie. made or marred 
by one's uncles represented by the 6th house. If Mercury 
is in the lagna one is highly religious, provided, of course, 
if Mercury is well aspected etc. A strong Mercury in the 
lagna brings about sudden pleasurable results in regard to 
wealth etc. when Rahu or Ketu is situated in the 9th 
house. 


(7) Libra in the Nineth House. Venus becomes the lord 
of the best kona (9th house) and a kendra—the 4th house. 
Hence it gives in it's dasa and bhukti nice results of Raj 
yoga i. power and affluence. If Venus is weak and 
afflicted the native suffers emotional set backs due to 
sudden loss of fortune. If Venus is strong and the 4th 
house is aspected by Jupitor, the native gets all sorts of 


182 


comforts of property, conveyances etc. He is also popular 
with the masses. A strong Venus denotes that the wife of 
the native has quite a number of younger sisters. 


(8) Scorpio in the Nineth House. Mars becomes the lord 
of the 9th and the 2nd house. If it is strong it gives much 
wealth. One is lucky and speaks in religious tones. His 
wife has younger brothers. If Mars and Jupitor are linked 
by mutual aspect, association etc., the native becomes 
both lucky and spiritual. 


(9) Sagittarius in the Nineth House. Jupitor becomes the 
lord of the 9th and the 12th houses. Since the 12th 
house gives the results of the house in which the other 
sign of the lord of the 12th house falls, the natives in this 
case will experience the effects of the 9th house. He would 
therefore be lucky and religious. The native will spend 
much on religious acts. <A strong Jupitor not only indi- 
cates that the wife of the native (or the husband of the 
native) has younger brothers, it also confers wealth on the 
native. A strong Jupitor in lagna makes one highly 
religious. 


(10) Capricorn in the Nineth House. Saturn becomes the 
lord ofthe 9th and the 10th houses, i.e. ofa kona and a 
kendra and as as such becomes Raj Yoga karaka. Unless 
Saturn is fairly strong the native is born in a rather poor 
family. If Saturn is not under the benefic influence of 
Jupitor etc, the father of the native possesses harsh speech. 
The fortune of the native increases slowly. In it's dasa 
and bhukti Saturn gives increased income, promotion and 
status. 


(11) Acquarius in the Nineth House. Saturn becomes the 
lord of the 8th and the 9th houses. The nineth is the 


183 


beg howe while the 8th is the worst. Since the Mool 
Trikona Sign of Saturn falls in the 9th house it gives good 
resulls on the whole, but only slightly so. If very strong 
Satum gives rise in luck, it also gives fortune through 
foreign lands etc. If Saturn is weak and afflicted it may 
cause sudden danger to life. 


12) Pisces in the Nineth House. Jupitor becomes the 
lerd of the 9th and the 6th house. In the net result 
Jupitoris slightly beneficial for the reason that the 6th 
house is not as bad as the 9th house is good. If Jupitor 
is Weak one suffers suddenly through his enemies. Jupito: 
m the Igna makes one religious. If Jupitor is in the 2nd 
honsé the native is apt to deliver speeches in the public 
on religious affairs. 


fc4 


The Tenth House 


| Planets in the Tenth House. The author of "DEVA 
KERALAM" while dealing with the effects of various 
planet in the 10th lions" has opined as such :- 


“Sicdharambhah Karmani Chandra Lagne Bha- 
Ume Sahasi Pap Budhi, Vidvan Saumye, Vak Pati 
Raj Tulyah, Shukre Bhogi, Bhanuje Shok Taptah”. 


Translation! If Sun is located in the 10th house from 
the Moon (or from the lagna), the native is successful in 
his tndertakings: If Mars is there one is bold and sinful 
(the latter because of the influence of Mars on the lagna 
and the 4th house). If Mercury is there one is learned. 
(Due to the strength of Mercury and it's influence on the 
lagna). If Jupitor is there one is equal to a king (Jupitor 
himself being a planet of governmental favour and also 
because it will benefit the 10th house—the house of ruling 
powers, If Venus is in the 10th house one is given to 
luxuries (Venus is luxurious and makes the self and mind 
of the native after itself). IfSaturn isin the 10th house 
one gets sorrow (Saturn being a seperative planet it 
seperates one at long last from the prospects of the 4th 
and the 10th houses it influences). 


185 


(B) If the Sun is strong and well aspected in the 10th 
house the native is powerful and a man of status. Ifa 
weak and afflicted moon is in the 10th house there is 
danger to the life of the eldest son of the native. Mars 
in the 10th house destroys quite a few of the issues of the 
native. Mercury in acquarius in the 10th house gives a 
good number of daughters to the native provided, of 
course if it is not under any malefic influence. Jupitor in 
the 10th house makes one a rich man leading a comfort- 
able life. Venus in the 10th house is generally weak and 
as such is not conducive either to the life prospects of the 
wife of the native or to the prospects of the house over 
which it has lordship. Saturn gives ultimate bad results 
i.€. one may prosper and rise initially but finally he will 
have to go down and lose whatever he has gained. Mars 
cf Gemini in the 10th house indicates financial losses to 
the father of the native. 


(C) The 10th house is the chief of the kendras. The 
tule is that any planet that occupies a kendra becomes 
strong. This strength boosts the prospects of the house 
over which the planet has lordship. For example Jupitor 
lord of the 5th house placed in the 10th house increases 
the number of sons and makes them long living. 


Jupitor in the 10th house is conducive to longivity for 
the reason that by it's location the lagna becomes fourth 
from it and as such it has considerable aspect on the lagna 
which stands inter alia for longivity. 


(2) Defect of Owning Kendras. In the case of people 
with Sagittarius or gemini as their ascendant mercury and 
Jupitor become lords of two kendras vtz the 7th and the 
10th. The ownership of kendras by natural benefics takes 


186 


away their benefic nature and as such if such planets are 
weak and placed in such disease giving houses as the 2nd, 
the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th, they cause physical trouble 
to the native in their dasa and bhukti. 


(3) Rahu in the Tenth House. Inregard to the location 
of Rahu in the 10th house of people with acquarius as 
their ascendant the author of "DEVA KERALAM" 
says :- 


“Karme Rahau Prajato Yah Vipad Daye Suyatra- 
van Punya Teertha Phalam Sidham Ganga Snan 
Phalam Smritam". 


Translation. If Rahu is situated in the 10th house the 
native has the opportunity in his Vipad dasa i.e. the third 
dasa from birth of going to the holy places or having a 
dip in the holy Ganges Rahu being a shadowy planet has 
no independent action of it's own. It, therefore, gives the 
effects of the 10th house in which it is situated. Hence it 
is clear that religious actions relate to the 10th house. 
The author of "UTTAR KALAMRIT" HAS STATED 
IN Khanda V shloka 18 as under :- 


“Daasatvam Krishi Vaidya Keerti Nidhi Nikshe- 
pashcha Yagyadayah”. 


Translation. The astrologer should consider service 
agriculture medicine, renown, treasury, and works of 
public utility from the 10th house. From the above it is 
clear that the 10th house relates more to the deeds of a 
religious nature than to professional nature. 


(4) Rulership and the Tenth House. The texts mention 
"SAMRAJYA YOGA" i.e. yoga for rulership as a_ result 


187 


of the strength of the 10th house. The author of "DEVA 
KERALAM” opines :- 


"Labhesh Karamesh Dhaneshvaranam. Ekopi 
Chandra Grah Kendra Varti Swa Putra Labhadhi- 
pati Gurushcha Akhanda Samrajya Patitvam Eti”. 


Translation. IF EVEN ONE OF THE LORDS OF 
THE 11th, 10th or the 2nd houses is located in the kendra 
from Moon andJupitor too as the lord of the 2nd, 11th 
and the 5th house is in kendra from Moon, the native gets 
great ruling powers. The following is the rationable 
behind this highly beneficial yoga :- 


(a) The lords of the 10th; 11th or the 2nd houses each 
denotes the fact ofrulerslup. It is, therefore, clear that 
the strength of the lords of any of these houses by location 
in kendra from the Moon will be conducive to the acquisi- 
tion of ruling powers. 


(b) Jupitor is the significator of "GOVERNMENTAL 
FAVOUR". When, therefore, Jupitor is the lord of benefic 
houses 2nd, 11th or the 5th, and is strong in the kendra 
from the Moon, it will also become instrumental in the 
acquisition of govt. favours or ruling powers. 


(5) Honour and the Tenth House. Like ruling powers 
honour too is indicative of attainment of height, which 
the 10th house (zenith) represents. When the lagna, the 
lord of the lagna, the 10th house the lord of the 10th 
house and the Sun—the significator of honour are all 
strong and well aspected the native gets much honour 
and renown in life. 


(6) Meaning of the Term Height. The lagna stands for 
the eastern horizon. The 4th house is the mid night. 


188 


Ihe 7th house stands for the time of sunset. The 10th 
house represents the mid day i.e. the zenith. Hence the 
1 Oth is the house ofheight where it represents maximum 
height on the place of birth. The term "height" is symbo- 
lic in content and denotes height of every type—height in 
name, height in position, height in status etc. Ifthe 10th 
house, it's lord and the Sun arc all under the influ- 
ence of the planets Saturn and Rahu, a king is fureed to 
abdicate, as Saturn acts as a seperative force on all Uy 
factors standing for rulership or kingship. 


(7) Profession and the Tenth House. We have already 
stated earlier in this chapter that the 1 Oth house relates 
more to religions affairs than to profession as such. The 
! Oth house has. however, been stated by eminent writers as 
the house of profession. The reason appears to be that 
the planets in the 10th house have considerable influence 
on the lagna and as such they give a clue to the nature of 
profession followed by the native, by virtue of the influ- 
ence exerted by such planets on the lagna. 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE TENTH HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the Tenth House. Mars becomes the lord 
of the 10th and the 5th houses. By simultaneously own- 
ing a kendra and a kona, Mars becomes a Raja Yoga 
Karaka planet ie. harbinger of affluence and power. If 
Mars occupies the 7th house ie. Capricorn and is not 
under any malefic influence, it constitutes "KAHAL" 
yoga, about the beneficial results of which the author of 
"DEVA KERALAM" opines :- 


"Yoge Tu Kahale Jato Sachivo Va Chamoopati, 
Dvi Panchadhik Sahasram Nishkam {shvar Bhashi- 
tam”. 


189 


Translation. A person born in "KAHAL" yoga 
becomes a general or a minister and draws 7 thousand 
as salary according to the opinion of ISHVARA. There 
are many reasons for the beneficial results of Mars of the 
type stated above. First of all Mars is a Raja Yoga 
Karaka in this case, i.e. a planet of affluence and power. 
Secondly it will be occupying its sign of exhaltation which 
will add to those beneficial results. Thirdly it will be in 
kendra and, therefore, strong and consequently more 
favourable. Fourthly and most important of all, the 
aspect of Mars will fall on Aries—it’s own sign with the 
result that the prospects of the 10th house fe. ruling 
powers and those of the 5th house i.e. the powers of advi- 
sing the people and the government would be boosted. 
In regard. to the excellent results of this yoga please see the 
horoscope of Sardar Patel; a great advisor on political 
matters. Mars in Lagna in Cancer even though in debi- 
litation, is not weak or bad, for the reason that it is well 
placed not only in kendra but also 4th from one of its 
signs i.e. Aries and 9th from it's other sign i.e. scorpio. 
Such a person gets honour through his son. He also gets 
renown by dint of his sound power of advising others. 


(2) Taurus in the 10th House. Venus as the lord ofa 
kendra ceases to remain a benefic planet, and becomes a 
malefic planet by virtue of the fact of the ownership of 
the 3rd house. The dasa and bhukti of Venus is not 
conducive to wealth unless Venus is extremely weak. 
The bhukti ie. the, sub period Of Venus in the main 
period of Saturn is particularly bad for the native as both 
Venus and Saturn would be enemies to Sun the lord of 
the Lagna. If Venus is strong the native has contacts 
with the V. I. Psand is active in obtaining the approba- 
tion of people very high in position. 


190 


(3) Gemini in the 10th House. Mercury becomes the 
lord of the 1st and the 10th houses. It is, therefore, highly 
beneficial. If strong it confers ruling powers, honour, 
wealth and status in its dasa and bhukti and engages one 
in good charitable deeds. A strong Mercury also ensures 
early wealth to the father of the native. 


(4) Cancer in the 10th House. Moon becomes the lord 
of the 10th house. Ifit is in the 4th house i.e. Capricorn, 
it boosts the 10th house by aspect and takes one to high 
status, ruling powers and honour etc. 


(5) Leo in the 10th House. Vf Sun the lord of the 10th 
house is strong, the father of the native becomes rich. 
The native tackles big business. Heis renowned and is 
generally successful in his undertakings. 


(6) Virgo in the 10th House. Mercury in this case creates 
the defect arising from its lordship over two kendras. It 
therefore, gives physical trouble in its dasa and bhukti, if 
it is weak and is situated in such disease giving houses as 
the 2nd, the 6th, the 8th and the 12th. Ifon the other 
hand Mercury be strong it brings much honour to the 
native. If Mercnry is under the influence of Saturn and 
R.ahu it at once seperates the native from the benefits of 
power and removes him from office and power. 


(7) Libra in the 10th House. Venus becomes the lord of 
the 10th kendra and the Sth kona house. As such Venus 
acts as a Raja Yoga Karaka planet and confers much 
power and affluence on the native. One is competant to 
render sound advice to the govt. on appropriate matters. 
Unless Venus is extremely weak? it gives always wealth 
and power in its dasa and bhukti. 


191 


(8) Scorpio in the 10th House. Mars ceases to be male- 
fic in nature by virtue of the fact that it owns a kendra 
but since it assumes at the same lime the lordship of the 
3rd house, it again becomes malefic for the native and 
gives bad resultsin it's dasa and bhukti. If Mars is 
strong the native earns honour through the instrumenta- 
lity of his younger brothers and friends. Saturn in 
scorpio in the 10th house should be considered as quite 
beneficial inspite of it's location in an inimical sign, The 
reason is two fold. Firstly Saturn would remain strong 
by viertuc ofbeing in a kendra and secondly Saturn as 
the lord of the lagna wou'd be aspecting Capricorn one 
of it's signs with the result that the benefit will accrue to 
the lagna as well, thereby bringing iato fructification the 
good traits of lagna such as honour, longivity, wealth etc. 
That is probably the reason why the author of “sDEVA 
KERALAM" has opined :- GADAMSHE TU ACHARE 
LAGNE LAGNESHE KARAM RASHI GE JANMA 
PRABHRITI SHREEMAN NA KADACHIT DARI- 
DRAKAH." 


Translation, If the ascendant be acquarius, the amsha 
is © GADA’’; and Saturn is located th the | Oth house, the 
native is rich from the very birth and does not see poverty 
at any time during his life. 


(9) Sagittarius in the 10th House. Jupitor becomes  tin- 
lord of the 10th kendra and thefirst kona. It, therefore, 
becomes a Raja Yoga planet. A strong Jupitor would th re- 
fore, confer honour, favour from govt., longivity wealth 
etc on the native. The native is able to stand on his own 
legs and earns much fame by dint of his own labours and 
wisdom. 


192 


(10) Capricorn in the 10th House. Saturn becomes the 
lord of the 10th and the 11th houses. According to the 
basic traits laid down by Maharshi Parashar, Saturn 
ceases to be a malefic by ov ning the 10th kendra, but 
since it owns the 1 Ith house at the same time, it becomes 
a malefic planet again. The IIth house is 6th from the 
6th i.e. the house of disease. Saturn is significator of 
disease. Hence the house which is influenced by Saturn 
and by such other factors of disease as Mercury lord of 
the 6th house and Rahu, will be afflicted with disease. 


(11) Acquarius in the Tenth House. Saturn becomes the 
lord of the 9th and the 10th houses. Nineth is a kona 
and 10tha kendra. Hence Saturn becomes Raja Yoga 
Karaka planet i.e. it would confer affluence and power on 
the native in it's dasa and bhukti. If Saturn is strong the 
native gets name, and success not only through the govt. 
but also through divine help i.e. in circumstances in which 
he apparently deserves very little success. 


(12) Pisces in the Tenth House. Jupitor suffers from the 
defect of the ownership of two kendras i.e. the 7th and 
the 10th. If Jupitor is weak and is located in the 2nd, 
6th, 8th or 12th house it gives disease etc. in it's dasa and 
bhukti. If on the other hand Jupitor is strong it gives 
ruling powers, for it is not only a planet of "governmental 
favour" but in this case would become the lord of two 
houses each of vhich represents the government i.e. the 
10th house and the house 10th to 10th (7th). A strong 
Jupitor would confer honour, ruling powers and wealth, 
longivity and philanthropic spirit on the native. 


193 


The Eleventh House 


(1) Gains ti the Eleventh House. The 11th is the house 
of gains, acquisition, profits, income, receipts ete! A 
planet situated in the [1th house is instrumental in bring- 
ing about gains from the person etc. represented by thé 
house over which it has lordship, When the lord of the 
lagna is in the 11th house, the gains are rather certain. 
Sun, for example, if situated in the 11th house, ensure 
acquisition of ruling powers and courage. If Moon is 
located in the 13tH house, as lord of the lagna, the native 
is successful in attaining the main object of his life for 
which he had been striving. Such a person is of strong 
will. If Mars occupies the 11th house as the lord of the 
lagna the native would have, in ample measure, such 
traits as courage, powers, anger, energy, efficiency high 
practical thinking etc. If Mercury is strong and is situat- 
ed in the 11th house, the native possesses a keen intellect, 
a knowledge of religion, and a spirit of sacrifice and 
service. If Jupitor is strong and occupies the 1 Ith house, 
the native is endowed with wisdom, power of rendering 
advice to others, comforts and honour from the govt. If 
Venus is strong and occupies the 11th house, one is strong 
in fine arts such as singing paintings etc. and has a luxuri- 
ous bent of mind. If Saturn occupies the I1th house and 


194 


is strong, the native is very industrious, serious and with a 
philosiphical outlook. He gets good landed property. 


(2) Gains and Transit of Planets. Things relating to a 
particular house are gained or acquired when :- 


(a) The lord of the lagna is located in trine to the lord 
of the house involved or in trine from the lord of the 
navamsha occupied by the lord of the house involved. 


(b) When the lord of the lagna comes to the house 
involved. 


(c) When the lord of the house concerned passes 
through a sign which is trine to the lord of the lagna or 
trine to the lord of the navamsha occupied by the lord of 
the lagna. 


(d) When the lord of the house comes to the lagna. 


(e) When the lord of the lagna and the lord of the 
house concerned are together or are mutually aspecting. 


(f) When the significator of the house involved comes 
to the Surya lagna or the Chandra lagna. 


According to the above principle, if the lord of the 
7th house and Venus are situated together in the 11th 
house, the native is likely to be benefited financially 
through his in-laws. 


(3) Elder Brother and the Eleventh House. The TIth 
house stands for the elder brothers, and Jupitor is the 
significator of the elder brothers. When Jupitor is loca- 
ted in the \I th house in an inimical sign and is under the 


195 


influence of malefic planets, by association or aspect, the 
native has absence of elder brothers. When Jupitor is 
himself the lord of the 11th house and is weak and afflict- 
ed, the native is again denied elder brothers. It has been 
our experience that if the lord of 1 Ith house is a natural 
malefic planet i.e. Sun, Mars or Saturn and is located in 
the 5th house, the yoga generally denies elder brothers to 
the native, unless the 11th house and it's lord is strongly 
aspected by the benefic planets, preferably by Jupitor 
who should also be strong. In such cases, that is where 
a malefic planet is the lord of the 1]th house and is 
situated in the 5th house we cannot advance the plea that 
since the lord of the llth house is aspecting the 11th 
house, it should be conducive to the prospects of the TI th 
house. Here the lord of the [1th house would be con- 
conducive only to the financial prospects of the Ith 
house and not to the life prospects of that house (elder 
brother). 


(4) Diseases injury etc. and the Eleventh House Just as 
when a planet occupies the 6th house we rightly presume 
that it is contaminated by the bad qualities of the 6th 
house, such as disease, injury etc. similarly a planet in the 
11th house should also be considered as contaminated by 
disease injury etc. For example the lord of the 8th house 
indicates the mode of death. Ifitis located in the 11th 
house we can presume that death will result by injury or 
violence, provided, of course, if the lord of the 6th house 
and Mars—other factors of injury and violence are Aso 
influencing the 8th house and its lord. In a similar 
manner if the lord of the 6th and the {1th houses are 
located in the 8th house we can predict death by violence 
or injury. In the case of people born with Sagittarius as 
their ascendant, Venus becomes the lord of the 6th and 


196 


the Hthhouse. Venus for them is a violent planet even 
though it is natural benefic. 


(5) Plenty and the Eleventh House. The planet situated 
in the 11th house not only indicates the acquisition of the 
traits of the house over which it has lordship, but also 
indicates plenty, multiplicity or abundance of those traits 
etc. For example Mars lord of the 3rd house in the 11th 
indicates the existance of younger brothers. 


(6) Air Travel and the Eleventh House. When the lords 
of the 3rd the 7th and the [J th houses are linked together 
intimately, one has many chances of travel by air as all 
these three houses are houses of air. 


(7) Left Arm and the Eleventh House. The 11th house 
represents the left arm. The lord of the 11th house acts 
as the self of the native in collaboration with the [5rd of 
the lagna who represents the self. If the lords of the 1 lth 
and the Ist houses are both benefic planets, e.g. in the case 
of Sagittarius nativities, and aspect a particular house and 
it's lord, the native is very strongly devoted to the person 
represented by the house that is aspected. For example, 
if Venus and Jupitor in the case of Sagittarius nativities 
aspect both the 5th house and it's lord, the native is 
highly devoted and helpful to his son. On the contrary 
if the lords of the [1th house and _ the first house are 
natural malefics, as happens in the case of Capricorn 
nativities, and be aspecting the 5th house and it's lord, the 
native will deliberately harm the prospects of the 5th 
house that is he would be a votary to the cult of "Family 
Planning" and would deliberately take action to have 
abortions. The principle can, of course be extended to the 
influence of the lords of the 11th and the Ist houses on 
the other houses and their lords. 


197 


(8) Value andthe Eleventh House. If the lord of the 
11th house is a natural benefic plant, it will enhance the 
value of the traits of the house and it's lord that it may 
be aspecting. Ifthe lord of the second house—a benefic 
planet happens also to be the lord of the house of wealth 
or gains i.e. the 11th house as happens in the case of Leo 
and acquarius nativities, such a benefic plonet will boost 
the value of the traits of the house it aspects very consider- 
ably. For example if acquarius be the ascendant and 
Jupitor and Venus are occupying the 10th house, the 
native would be endowed with high class bangalows, 
property, comforts and amenities denoted by the 4th 
house. The author of "SARVARTHA CHINTAMANI" 
has averred that :- 


"Labhesha Tat Karaka Drishti Yogat Edam 
Vadanti Atra Dhane Bahutvam". 


Translation. The exuberance of wealth results from the 
aspects of the lord of the 11th house and ‘Jupitor—the 
significator of gains. Since value is represented by the 
lagna also it stands to reason to suppose that in cases 
where Jupitor lord of the 11th and the second houses or 
the second and the 5th houses is simultaneously the lord 
of the sign occupied by the Moon, it would assume a 
greater role as the giver of wealth and value and as such 
it's aspect on representative factors in such a case would 
make the factors aspected extremely rich and valuable. 


(9) Finances of Gout. and the Eleventh House. Since the 
Ilth house is second from the 10th (Govt.), it represents 
the wealth, revenue and the finances of the govt. The 
principle can be extended to other houses vis-a-vis the 
10th. For example the 12th house is 3rd from the 10th 


198 


house. Itis therefore the arms of the govt., i.e. the armed 
forces, the navy, the air force etc. The ascendant would 
be fourth from the 10th house, and as such would repre- 
sent the home department of the govt., and it's home 
affairs. The second house is 5th from the 10th house and 
as such represents the "planning" department of a govt. 
The third house being 6th from the JOth, would stand for 
the labour department of the state factories etc. and so on 
with respect to the other houses of the horoscope as coun- 
ted from the 10th house. 


(10) Sub Periods of, the Eleventh Lord. When there is 
the main ruling period of the lord of the Ith house and 
the sub period of the lord of a house that is inimical to 
the lord of the lagna involved one suffers disease or injury. 
The author of "DEVA KERALAM" writes "ABOUT 
THE CANCER LAGNA PEOPLE" :- 


"Labhadhip Dasa Kale Shane Bhuktau Maha 
Vipat". 


Translation. During the dasa period of the lord of the 
11th house and the sub ruling period of Saturn there is 
great calamity. It is clear that under the rules of Para- 
shar both Venus—the lord of the 11th house and Saturn 
would be enemies of Moon the lord of Cancer lagna and 
as such they would in their dasa and bhukti harm the 
health and wealth prospects of the native. 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the Eleventh House. Mars becomes the lord 
of the llth and the 6th house. This is like adding insult 
to injury. Mars by himself represents violence and in- 
juries. By his becoming the lord of two houses of violence 


199 


and injury fZlof the 11th and the 6th he would be satura- 
ted, as it were, with spirit of violence. If Mars happens 
to occupy the lagna and is also influencing Moon by 
association or aspect, it would obviously infuse it's violent 
and injurious traits into the self (lagna) and the mind 
(By influence on the 4th house and on Moon). Such 
being the case, if then Mars influences a particular house, 
it's lord as well as it's significator by aspect et€5 it would 
make the person harm the prospects of the person  repre- 
sented by the house which Mars may be influencing. If 
Mercury is located in the 11th house and Mars in the 
8th, for Gemini nativities, one is likely to be a thief or a 
Tobber. Aries being in the house 6fthe elder brother 
(1] th), if a particular house and it's lord are both afflicted 
in the horoscope, it would indicate trouble in the limb of 
the elder brother, the limb involved being represented 
by the number of the sign afflicted. For example Venus 
and Taurus afflicted would indicate trouble in his (elder 
brother's) throat. Similarly Gemini and Mercury afflict- 
ed would mean disease in his respiratory canal. Cancer 
and Moon afflicted would mean some trouble in his lungs 
and so on. 


(2) Taurus in the Eleventh House. Venus ceases to be a 
benefic by virtue of the fact that it owns the 4th kendra. 
Since it also owns the 11th house it becomes a malefic as 
defined under the rules of Parashar. Venus in it's dasa 
and the bhukti of Saturn would cause physical trouble as 
well as financial stringency. If Venus is strong one is 
blessed with a high class vehicle. If Venus is located 
with Rahu in the 12th house one is seperated from his 
house, or his house is destroyed. In such a case Rahu 
the planet of seperation would not only be afflicting Venus 
by it's association but would Also be throwing it's 5th 


200 


aspect on the 4th house of which Venus is the lord, there- 
by seperating the native from the traits of the fourth 
house. Such a man may have to leave his place of birth 
for good. He is also over sexed. 


(3) Gemini inthe Eleventh House. Mercury becomes the 
lord of the 11th and the 2nd houses. Both of these houses 
represent wealth. Hence if Mercury is strong the native 
becomes rich. Ifthe Sun and Mercury are together and 
both are aspected by Jupitor, the native becomes bold, 
courageous; respected and in the good books of the govt. 
He gains through rent, interest etc. If Mercury is weak 
and afflicted the native suffers financially through his 
elder brother or the elder sister. If Rahu or Ketu is 
situated in the 11th or the 2nd house and Mercury is 
li Gated in the 5th or the 9th house in association with or 
under the aspect of benefic planets, the sub period of 
Mercury becomes instrumental in bringing a wind fall to 
the native in the shape of a lottery or a prize. If both 
the I lth house and Mercury are under the aspect of Mars 
there is likelihood of the life of the mother of the native 
being cut short. 


(4) Cancer in the Eleventh House. If Moon the lord of 
the 1 Ith house is strong the native has very good income 
and he has quite a number of elder sisters. The reason 
is that the 11th house stands for the elder coborns of the 
native and Moon a female planet would represent the 
elder sisters of the native. The fact that Moon is the lord 
of the I [th house also indicates that the native is ambitious, 
provided of course if the Moon is strong. A weak Moon 
reduces considerably the number of the elder sisters to the 
native. It also denotes short life to the mother of the 
native, for the reason that that FItH house being 8th from 


201 


the 4th represents the longivity of the mother: more parti- 
cularly when the lordship of that house goes to Moon= 
significator of mother herself. 


(5) Leo in the Eleventh House. A strong Sun in_ this 
case indicates the likelihood of much gain from the govt: 
for which the planet Sun stands. The elder brother of 
the native would rise in status and his mother would be 
normally long lived. If Sun is weak and afflicted by 
malefic planets either by association or by aspect, and the 
planet Jupitor is also weak and afflicted the native is likely 
to be denied elder brothers. It also indicates the likeli- 
hood of some stomach trouble to the wife of the native! 


(6) Virgo in the Eleventh House. Mercury becomes the 
lord of the 11th and the 8th houses. It gives some money 
as it's Mool trikina sign falls in the [1th house which is 
better than the 8th house. If Mercury is strong the 
existance of elder sisters to the native is indicated. If 
Mercury is weak and afflicted there is financial loss to the 
native in his early life as well as in the sub periods of 
Mercury. Mercury acting in collaboration with Mars 
acts as a planet of injury. 


(7) Libra in the Eleventh House. Venus becomes th@ 
lord of the 11th and the 6th house. Both of these houses 
are the houses of "Injury". Hence Venus even though it 
is a natural benefic planet would act as a malefic planet 
and would cause injury to che house etc. which it may 
aspect or be associated with. Ifthis Venus influences a 
house along with Mars then the house etc. afflicted by 
them receives much injury. 


(8) Scorpio in the 11th House. Mars in this case becomes 
the lord of the 4th house and as such does not remain a 


202 


malefic planet. But since it is also the lord of the 11th 
house it again becomes a malefic planet according to the 
priciples laid down by Maharshi Parashar. Hence Mars 
in its sub period would give bad results. But these results, 
in our opinion are adverse only in so far as health is 
concerned. So far as the finances are concerned the 
results are not bad and the native may stand to gain in 
money matters, particularly if Mars is strong, in which 
case Mars is instrumental in procuring for the native 
property and houses. If Mars together with Saturn 
influences a house its lord and it's significator the native 
commits violence on the person denoted by the house 
afflicted by them. The reason for such an action on the 
part of the native is that Saturn becomes the lord of the 
lagna and as such represents the self of the man, and 
Mars being the lord of the 1 1th house represents the arms 
of the native i.e. again the self of the native. Malefic 
Mars and Saturn would in these circumstances give 
premeditated and deliberate action. For example if both 
Saturn and Mars aspect Venus and the Moon, the man 
would be deadly against his wife and may even go to 
the length of murdering her. 


(9) Sagittarius in the Eleventh House. Jupitor here is 
already in himself a significator of "WEALTH". It is in 
the second place the lord of the house of gains or value. 
And again Jupitor becomes the lord of the second house 
i.e. the house of wealth and as_ such_ represents 
"VALUE" and wealth par-excellence] It is now not 
difficult to see that the house etc. which sucha pucca 
representative of value and wealth aspects would 
become highly rich and valuable in whatever it repre- 
sents. For example if the above type af Jupitor aspects 
Sun and Mars it would confer ruling powers on the 


203 


native, as Sun is the significator of Ruling powers and 
Mars is the lord of the 10th house which stands for 
ruling powers. Similarly if the above type of Jupitor 
aspects both the 4th house and Venus, the native will 
have all sorts of comforts in life, conveyances, property 
land etc. It would thus be seen that people born in the 
acquarius ascendant are comparatively more fortunate 
than others in so far as the finance conferring qualities of 
Jupitor are concerned. Some people unnecessarily decry 
birth in the acquarius ascendant. 


(10) Capricorn in the Eleventh House. Saturn becomes 
the lord of the 11th and the 12th houses. In such cases 
the elder brother of the native is generally of harsh speech 
unless Saturn has on it some good asecpt. If Saturn is 
strong the native has many elder sisters. He stands to 
gain from landed property. If one the contrary Saturn is 
weak the native suffers financially at the hands of his 
elder brothers or elder sister. 


(11) Acquarius in the Eleventh House. Saturn becomes 
the lord of the 10th and the 11th houses. It acts adver- 
sely in health matters. Itis, however ever, somewhat 
good so far as finances are concerned. Ifsaturn is strong 
one works for his elder brother. One also benefits from 
landed property. 


(12) Pisces in the Eleventh House. Jupitor become the 
lord ofthe 11th and the 8th house. Ifthe 11th house 
and Jupitor are aspected by Mars and Saturn the native 
does not have any elder brothers. If Jupitor is strong 
the native gains through some sort of invention or discovery. 
He is also blessed with elder brothers and engages himself 
in good deeds. 


204 


The Twelfth House 


(1) Loss ofEye Sight and the Twelfth House. If Sun or 
the Moon is located in the 12th house and is afflicted by 
association or aspect of malefic planets, there is danger 
of the native losing his eye sight. The reason is that the 
12th house stands foi the left eye ofa man and the Sun 
and the Moon stand for the right and _ the left eye respec- 
tively of a person. Similarly if Moon is the lord of the 
12th house and malefic planets influence both the 12th 
house and the Moon, there is again the likelihood of the 
native losing his eye sight. The principles enunciated 
above can be extended to other relatives. For example 
if Sun occupies an inimical sign in the 8th house, and is 
aspected by malefics like Mars and Saturn, the father of 
the native is likely to lose his eye sight. The reason is that 
in such a case Sun-the light representing the eye would be 
situated in the 12th house of the father (9th), which also 
represents eye of that relation. 


(2) Venus in the Twelfth House. (i) Venus isa luxu- 
rious planet. This planet is very much happy and in its 
elements when situated in the houses of enjoyment and 
sex i.e. the 12th house and the 7th house. Venus is thus 
an exception to the general rule that a planet in the 12th 
house suffers. People in whose horoscopes Venus occupies 


205 


the 12th house have generally very long living wives, due 
to the happy situation of Venus referred to above. 


Since both the 12th house and the planet Venus are 
luxurious factors it would be noted that the location of 
Venus in the 12th house along with the lord of that house 
would greatly boost up the prospects of enjoyments and 
wealth. In regard to the 12th position of Venus the 
author of SDEVA KERALAM” opines := 


“V yaya Sthan Gate Kavye Neechamshak V arjite 
Bhagyadhipen Samdrishte Nidhi praptina Sams 
shayah." 


Translation. Jf Venus is situated in the 12th house 
(but not in its neech navamsha) and is aspected by the 
lord of the 9th house the native meets with a treasure. 
The idea is that the location of the planet Venus in the 
12th house has been considered as_ beneficial and not 
harmful. 


(ii) Since Venus benefits the house etc. from which 
it is twelfth, it would make a_ person highly rich if it is 
situated in the 12th house from the Sun and the Moon 
when the latter two planets occupy the lagna. 


(iv) As a corolary to the principle stated above we can 
say that when Venus is situated in the 12th house 
from the planet Jupitor, it is highly conducive to Jupitor. 
And since Jupitor stands for wealth location of Venus 12th 
from Jupitor would naturally make the person concerned 
very rich. 


(3) Amputation of, the Feet and the Twelfth House. 
According to the conception ofthe "KALA PURUSHA" 


206 


the 12th house stands for the feet ofa man When malefic 
influence of planets is being received by the 12th house, 
it's lord Jupitor and the sign pisces, the native is most 
likely to have injury or some other trouble in his feet. If 
the malefic influence in question is of the planet Mars and 
is being felt not only by the lord of the 12th houses from 
the lagna but 8Isé by the lords of the 12th houses from the 
Surya lagna and the Chandra lagnas, the native is likely 
to have his feet amputated. (See H'Scope No. 44) 


{| Drowning and the Tweloeth House. The 12th house 
is a watery house, When the lord 6fthis watery house 
influences the 8th house and it's lord along with the lord 
of the 4th howse=another watery house, the man con- 
cerned meets a Waters grave. It should however, be 
remembered that when a planet is occupying the 12th 
house, tlit lord of the L2th house acts for the element 
whit H thd planet in the 12tH house represents and not nece- 
ssaily wan For example] if Uié 12th house is occupied by 
Sun and Mars} and the lord of the 12th house is located 
in the BtH house "ith the lord of the 8th house, the death 
would take place not through water but through fire 
which the lord of the 12th house would in these circums- 
tances represent. 


(5) Huge Riches and the Twelfth House. When the lord 
ofthe 13th house is situated in the 3rd, 6th or the 8th 
house, and is under the exclusive influence of malefic 
planets, without the influence of benefic planets, the con- 
figuration creates "Vipreet Raja Yoga", which is a great 
desirable yoga for affluence, which is fenéfally found in 
the horoscopes of millionaires. 


(6) Unfaithful Husband and the Twelfth House. Ifin a 
female nativity the 12th house and it's lord are associated 


207 


with Rahu and the lord of the 6th and the 1 Ith houses, 
the "pleasures of the bed" ofthe native become foreign 
to her i.e. seme other lady shares these pleasures with her 
husband. 


(7) Expense and the Twelfth House. The 12th house is 
the house of expenditure—expenditure tncludes wastage. 
Hence Sun etc. located in the 12th house without the 
influence of any other planet, denote expense or wastage 
of their respective traits. For example ifthe Sun is in 
the 12th house, without any influence, it denotes that the 
native is selfless end is prepared to sacrifice his self for the 
benefit of others, the Sun being a Satvik planet. Ifa 
similar type of Moon is located in the 12th house, it indi- 
cates wastage of emotional contents, i.e. the native is easily 
irritated and is highly emotional. If Mars of that type 
is in the 12th house, one wastes his muscular power 
for the benefit of others. If Mercury is located in the 12th 
house in that position one is garrulous and wastes his 
speech on others. Ifit be Jupitor in the 12th house with- 
out any influence the native wastes his unsolicited advice 
on others. If Venus occupies the 12th house without any 
influence on it the native wastes his semen in many ways 
and is a book worm. If saturn or Rahu is located in the 
house without any influence the yoga indicates that the 
native makes extra use of his nerves and strains his nerves 
too much. 


(8) Libra and the Twelfth House. If the lagna, the 
chandra lagna and the Surya lagna or their lords are 
intimately linked by association or aspect with the 9th 
house therefrom, or their lords and the 12th house and 
it's lord is under the influence of Satvik planets, and the 
4th house and Moon are influenced by Saturn the native 
attains to Moksha or liberation. 


208 


VARIOUS SIGNS IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE 


(1) Aries in the Twelfth House. Mars becomes the lord 
of the 12th and the 7th houses. Both ofthese houses 


represent "sex" 


and luxurious living. Hence if Venus 
and Mars are together and are located in the 5th house, 
the native is ridden with sex. The location of Venus and 
Mars together in the 7th house or the 12th house also gives 
the same results. Mars lord of the 12th and the 7th 
houses according to the basic rules of Maharshi Parashar 
would give the results of the 7th house, and as such it's 
lordship over that kendra would make him lose his malefic 
nature. Thus Mars will be somewhat good for the native 
so for as the financial matters are concerned. 


(2) Taurus in the Twelveth House. Here also Venus 
being lord ofthe 12th house, would give the results of the 
house over which it's other sign falls i.e. of the 5th house. 
The 5th house being a trine, Venus would prove nice in 
financial matters. Venus located in the 7th house would 
indicate that the native is ridden with sex, for the reason 
that the 12th house is the "house of enjoyments of the 
bed" and_ the Sth house is the house of "The lady Love" 
and as such the link between the lords of the 5th and the 
7th houses would bring in "Excess" of sex. If Venus is 
strong the native has preponderance of daughters. If 
Venus is weak and afflicted, the native suffers financially- 
through some fault of his son and also suffers in financial 
matters through his own wrong judgement or assessment. 

(3) Gemini in the Twelfth House. Mercury Becomes 
the lord of the 12th and the 3rd houses. Both of: these 
are bad houses. If Mercury is located in the 5th house; 
and is under the irffidence} by association or aspect <f 


209 


malefic planets only without the influence, by association 
or aspect of any benefic planets, the configuration would 
create "YTPREET RAJA YOGA" for the native who 
will as a result of this highly useful yoga, gain immensely in 
finance, for the badness of the horoscope would be 
destroyed. A strong Mercury would give many younger 
sisters to the native. If Mercury is weak and afflicted 
one has to spend much on his younger brothers and 
sisters. Ifboth the 12th house and it's lord Mercury 
are aspected by malefic planets the life of the son of the 
native is cut short, mercury—the giver of quick results 
being the lord of the 8th house ftom that of the son. 
(Sth). 


(4) Cancer in the Twelfth House. The lordship of 
Moon over the 12th house indicates that the subject is 
given to luxury and enjoyment, more porticularly if Moon 
is linked by association etc. with the Ist and the 4th houses 
and their lords. If Moon is away from the Sun and is 
not weak by affliction it is treated as a benefic planet and 
increases the prospects of the house in which it is located. 
Moon does not suffer as a result of her lordship of the 
8th house, the worst house in the horoscope, and as such 
there is no likelihood of her suffering as a result of being 
the lord of the 12th house, which is after all not as bad 
as the 8th house. Besides Moon is like the Lagna and as 
such if strong is a great boon. 


(5) Leo in the Twelveth House. If Sun is strong it would 
give good results in regard to finance, power etc. inspite 
of it’s lordship over the 12th house. The native would be 
spendthrift. IfSun is weak and afflicted by Saturn and 
Rahu, the native may lose his eye sight. 


210 


(6) Virgo and the Twelfth House. Mercury Becomes 
the lord of the 12th and the 9th houses. Since 
the other sign of the lord of the 12th house falls in this 
case in the 9th house, the results of the 9th house would 
be experienced and as such Mercury would, if it is strong, 
prove very beneficial in it's effects. If Mercury is weak 
one suffers financially through one's father, and _ the 
govt. of the day. He is also unlucky ie. has to suffer 
setbacks in his career unexpectedly. 


(7) Libra in the Twe'fth House. Venus becomes the 
lord of the 12th and the 7th houses. Both of these houses 
have "sex" in common. Hence if Venus is located in the 
7th or the 12th house, and is influenced by Saturn, lord 
of the sign occupied by Rahu, the native even though 
married establishes matrimonial relations with other 
women. If Venus is not strong he has to incur much 
expenditure on his wife and suffers at the hands of the 
govt. of the day. 


(8) Scorpio in the Twelfth House. Mars becomes the 
lord of the 12th and the 5th house. Since the lord of the 
12th house gives the effects of the house in which his 
other sign falls, Mars becomes very benficial for the native 
being thus the lord of the 5th kona (trine house). 


(9) Sagittarius in the Twelfth House. Jupitor will give 
the effects of the 3rd house, as the second sign of the lord 
of the 12th house would fall in that house. HenceJupitor 
in it's dasa and bhukti will not give much wealth. If 
Jupitor is strong one benefits through his younger brothers. 
He also gains through his friends. His friends are a good 
lot. 


211 


(10) Capricorn and the Twelfth House. Such a persoy 
has acquarius as his ascendant. Some authors are of thi 
fpinion”_that since Saturn owns the 12th house as well 
acquarius is an unfortunate lagna. Wedo not subscrik 
to this view. Our submission is that according to thi 
basic principles enunciated by Maharshi Parasha the 
father of Indian Astrology, the lord of the 12th hong 
gives the effects of the house iri which it's other sigr 
falls. In the case under consideration the other sign a 
the lord of the 12th house falls in lagna, and as 8utl 
Saturn will give the effects of lagna, which cannot b 
bad but would be positively good. 


(11) Acguarius in the Twelfth House. Saturn become 
the lord of the house of speech of the elder brother 
the native. As such that brother is likely to be harsh ff 
his speech, unless of course this defect is removed by sor 
benefic influence on Saturn. 


(12) Pisces in the Twelfth House. Jupitor bécome’s 0 
lord of the 12th and the 9th houses. Since the log 
of the 12th house gives the effects of the other house ove 
Which it has lordship, Jupitor in this case would give the 
effects of the 9th house—thé best of the trinés! Ag SUCH 
the effects of Jupitor arc bound to be excellent. If [Jupitg 
is linked to the lagna one is actively associated wit 


religion and the religious life. If on the other hand 
Jupitor is weak and afflicted the native suffers at O 
hands of the govt. and it's officials. Jupitor as 
ofthe sign piscé§ located in the 12th house become 
good representative of the feet of the native. If the- 
house and Jupitor are under the influence of male 
planets, like Mars and Ketu, the native suffers 
disease or trouble in his feet. 


212 


Brief Comments on the Dlustrated 
Horoscopes 


(1) Duke of Windsor. Saturn is lord of the lagna and 
as such represents the self. It is a "seperative" planet. It 
aspects the 10th house by it's third aspect. It also in- 
fluences by it's 7th aspect not only the lord of the 10th 
house (ruling powers) but also the Sun=thé significator 
of ruling powers. Thus all the factors for Ruling powers 


are afflicted by a seperative "self" resulting in abdication 
by his own choice. 


(2) Jawahar Lal ‘Nehru! (i) The acquisition of ruling 
powers as Prime Minister was due to the aspect of Mars== 
the lord of the house of ruling powers on it's own house 
(10) and the aspect on the same house of as many as 
three benefic planets fig Venus, Mercury and Jupitor. 


Gi) The lords of all the three lagnas ie. the lagna, 
the chandra lagna and the Surya lagna are mutual friends. 


Hence Mars becomes a great Raja Yoga karaka from all 
of them. 


(ii) The house of masses i.e. the 4th and it's lord Venus 
is in good company OFit's friend Mescury and is squared 
by a benefic and strong lord of lagna and the §ignifica] 1 


213 


ns aA ea an — | yvs}owf — | an] — | — EE 6 | ¢ 
be le eS tl ee My ede salle os 
qn 
ns on VE SH ar) — | — } an] — Vs} VN t t 
aA 
ee | Fi Co Ss Se NO Ses tr 
! vs | ow] * 
_ — | -—|¥8 aa) an] — | -— | - eae ae | 8 £ 
; ns n 
| 
= ee ren reel PP ia aA ey | eae 
vu | | : | ar as| 38 | vw] vs}ow! + z 
vu 
a: = ee es ce ee _ | aad — | wr] _ 
VS an ar on ch i 
aoe 
uN ix x tur fjmalual rs | al ar tae | dor | exort| ibe 


sadoosg ‘YH ~patessnyy. 


214 


- ‘qyamay ‘yyohyey ‘VY Swings 
“qAmmosa "yy fesondot ‘qa Amorypy VW=hEy OK =uoop ‘qseunsg, : suepeati4ggy 


A a 


_ |_| _ | or 
ae! tI 
av 
¥S 
aA| OK] 2 ol 
ns 
vu 
aw 
aA i‘ 6 
vA | 4s 
wy | ow] — 6 a 
nti axl! s t 


rath 


¥H 


ix 


¥S 


x 


— | - bee vu| — | vw] — 
| pe? 
aW 
mS SS On|! aL ee | = 
ns : 
— |ow|] orl asf — | vw] — 
val — | a | —|— 4a me aN 
aN 
a F eae 3 vu 
HA | nS} aK ww] Ot 
ss] - | al) —|—1 33 
nalaa | a}latla| ou |e 


fia 


™ 


tz 


DR 


aN 


HX 


Vu 


an 


ix 


AW] 4A] aN J 7 


SIX 
Vs 


ON 
Wu 


— | 


ae Vs $ 


= WIN 


I 
t 
I 


221 


“on 


aia | tla 


for the masses. Hence his great contacts and popularity 
with the masses, and his active part in public life. 


(iv) Since there is a benefic planet in his own sign 
along with Ketu in the 6th house—the house of enemies, 
he had a great enemy in the shape of the British Empire. 


(v) Mars situated in an inimical sign in the 3rd house 
suffers as the significator of brothers. It therefore harms 
the prospects of the brothers denoted by the 3rd house. 
Hence he had no younger brothers. 


(vi) The lagna, it's lord, the chandra lagna, it's lord 
i.e. Moon are all under "Nervous" influence being 
hemmed in by Rahu and Saturn. Hence his death thr- 
ough "stroke." 


(vii) The lord of the 7lh house i.e. Saturn is located 
in the 8th house from the 7th and that too in an inimical 
sigh, hence wife was short lived. 


(viii) The 5th house has the stupendous and the 
malefic planet Sun in it. Saturn makes a square on the 
5th house. The lord of the 5th house i.e. Mars occupies 
an inimical sign and has no influence on it. Mars and 
Ketu are influencing ‘Jupitor=the significator of Sons and 
the lord ofthe 9th house (5th to 5th and as such 5th) 
Hence he had no son. 


(3) The lordship of the 7th house goes to the planet Mer- 
cury. Sun and Saturn—the seperative planets are influ- 
! encing the 7th house and it's lord. Venus=the significator 
, of wife is under the influence of seperative planets Sun 
and Saturn, Ketu and the lord of the 12th house (Mars). 


223 


Hence there was seperation from wife soon after the 
marriage. 


(4) Mahatma Gandhi. Venus is the lord of the lagna 
as well as the 8th house. This planet together with 
Jupitor lord of the 3rd house (i.e. 8th to 8th) all represenr 
one field. Mars influences all of these factors. Hence Mars 
must be held to be the cause of death. Mars being near 
the Sun is SAtichari’2 ie. in very fast motion. Hence the 
death was caused by a fast moving fire ie. by the bullet 
of an assassin: 


(ii) Mercury the lord of the 9th house from the lagna, 
Mars the lord of the 9th house from the chandra lagna, 
and Venus the lord of the 9th house from the Surya lagna, 
are all together in the lagna (self) and arc aspected by 
the spiritual planet Jupitor. This accounts for his immense 
interest in religion. 


(iii) The lagna, the lord of the lagna, lord of the 2nd 
house and Moon are all aspected by the spiritual planet 
Jupitor. He always took satvic vegitarion diet. 


(5) President Dr. Rajendra Prasad. The lord of the 
house of govt. favour is the kingly planet Sun himself, 
who has Venus 12th to it Jupitor is squaring it and Moon 
is fully aspecting it. Such a Sun gave him the president- 
ship of India. 


(6) A Diseased Person. Saturn himself the significator 
of disease has become the lord not only of the house of dis- 
ease (6th), but in also the lord of the sign occupied by 
Rahu. Saturn is thus disease in a very acute form. The 9th 


224 


house is influenced by sucha Saturn. Hence the native 
had a severe and life long trouble in the hip joint. 


(ii) The same Saturn aspects the 3rd and the Ith 
houses (ears). He was twice operated upon in boyhood 
for ear trouble. 


(iii) The lord of the 7th house ie. Jupitor and the 
significator of the 7th house i.e. Venus are together and 
are heavily afflicted by the Sun—a malefic and seperative 
planet who has become all the more malefic by being 
lord of the 12th house and also by being the lord cf the 
sign occupied by the planet Ketu. Hence he was seperated 
from his wife for the whole of his life, the rift having 
taken place within a few months of marriage. 


(iv) The 5th house, the lord ofthe heuseé 5th to 5th 
ie. Venus and Jupitor—the significator ofthe 5th house 
(Sons) are all afflicted by the malefic and seperative Sun 
lord of the 12th house and of the sign a occupied by 
Ketu. Thus the seperative influence on the representative 
factors of "SON" resulted in his seperation from his son 
also for the whole of his life, as the son continued to stay 
with the seperated wife. 


(7) Bone Fracture. The lord of the lagna} the lord of 
the Surya lagna and the Chandra lagna are all linked to 
the 4th house i.e. nadir (fall). 


(ii) The lord of the lagna is Sun and represents the 
bones. Sun as Hone is influenced by Ketu acting as 
Mars. Sun is also surrounded by the injury planets Mars 
and Mercury (who is lord of the house 6th to 6th). Hence 
the native had fracture of the bones by fall frem a great 
height. 


223 


(8) Shree V.K. Menon Ex-Minitner. Sun Jupitor and 
Saturn are all exhalted and are mutually in kendras. 
This constitutes "KARAKAKHYA" yoga which has 
been extolled by Maharshi Parashar and is responsible 
for the high status in life. 


(9) Nero the Roman Emperor. The house of the "Family" 
viz, the 2nd house is under the influence of Rahu, also 
under the influence of the lord of the 6th house. It is 
also being influenced by the lord of the 11th house, which 
acts as the 6th house being 6th from the 6th. All of them 
denote foreign influence on the family resulting in the 
native being adopted by another family and his own 
family becoming "foreign" to him legally. 


(ii) Great interest in Luxury and music. The lord of the 
5th house (interest) is exhalted in the 2nd house. It is 
with Venus—the luxurious and the musical planet. The 
lord of the 2nd house i.e. Saturn is exhalted as the lord of 
the 2nd house and as the lord of the sign occupied by the 
musical Venus. Hence the said interest. 


(10) George Bernard Shaw. Long Life. The lord of the 
lagna, the lord of the chandra lagna and the lord of the 
Surya lagna and Saturn the significator of longivity are 
all together and are influenced by the square of Juptior. 
This ensured a long life of over 90 years. 


(11) Queen Victoria. Venus is situated 12th from all 
the three lagnas. All the three lagnas are aspected by 
Jupitor. Venus aspects it's own sign libra and thereby 
strengthens both libra and it's other sign taurus. Hence 
the lagnas are strengthened all the more. 


226 


(12) Hitler Ruling Power. The lord of the lagna 
aspects the lagna. The sun and the sign occupied by the 
Sun are together, well aspected by Jupitor. The lord of 
the sign occupied by Chandra is in the Chandra lagna 
itself with Ketu. Thus the strength of all the lagnas 
ensures ruling powers. 


(ii) Bravery and Boldness. A Jupitor in dignity situated 
with Ketu accounts for it. 


(iii) Suicide. The lagna, the lord of the lagna and the 
lord of the 8th house are all influenced by Mars. They 
are also influenced by Sun, Saturn and Jupitor. The 
influence of Mars is of course violent in effect. The 
influence of Jupitoris also violent in nature, it being lord 
of the 6th house. The influence of the Sun is also one of 
violence it being the lord ofthe house 6th to 6th. (11th). 
Sun is "SELF" and more so being lord of the 11th house 
(Arms—=a great instrument of "self"). Jupitor also 
represents the self being the lord of the 3rd house 
(Again Arms). Hence the suicide by this great tyrant of 
the world. Mars being in extraordinary motion accounts 
for death by fast moving fire—a bullet. 


(13) Lungs Trouble. Jupitor the lord of the house of 
lungs (4th) and Moon the significator of lungs are together 
in a bad house (12th) and are aspected by malefic Saturn 
who has become all the more so by virtue of the fact that 
it owns the sign occpied by Mars and Rahu. The 4th 
house from the Surya lagaa is also afflicted. 


(14) Pleursy in Boyhood. A watery planet is in debili- 
tation in the 5th house (belly). There was burning of the 
belly also in the child-hood. (ii) Moon representing the 


227 


sun and the Mars as Fire is in debilitation in the house nf 
belly (Sth). 


(15) Godse the Assassin of Mahatma Gandhi. (i) Violent 
Nature. Mars the violent and injurious planet is the lord 
of the 2 houses of violence viz the 6th and the 1 Ith houses, 
and is influencing the lagna, the 4th house and Moon— 
all factors of mind. 


Gi) The lagna is afflicted by both Mars and satuin. 
The square influence of Venus on lagna is also the, male- 
fic influence of Sun and Rahu. Mercury the lord of the 
lagns is a also with malefics Sun and Rahu and is surro- 
unded by malefic influence. Weakness of the lagna and 
the lagnesh thus harms the 4th house (i.e. one from the 
masses) and causes murderby hint Jupitor's influence 


Mars and Rahu. 


(16) Husband's Death Soon After Marriage. Mercury the 
planet notorious forit's quick results is the lord of the 8th 
house from the house ofthe husband i.e. from the 7th 
house. He and Jupitor—the significator of the husband are 
together and are both aspected by Rahu by its 5th aspect. 
This aspect of Rahu has the additional malefic fie influence 
of Mars as well, who is a famous killer. Venus too is the 
lord of the house of violence. It is also lord of the sign 
occupied by the violent planets Ketu and Mars. Due to 
this heavy "killing" influence on the factors representing 
the life of the husband, the husband died soon after the 
marriage. 


(17) Hernia Resulting From Seperative Influence: There is 
the influence of seperative saturn on the 6th house and 


228 


its lord. The signno: 6is hemmed in between Saturn 
and Sun. The lord of the sign no 6 i.e. Mercury is with 
Sun. Thus the seperative influence causes displacement 
of the intestines and gives the disease called hernia. 


(18) Stirilization of Wife. The private parts of wife 
would be repressented by the 1st house since it is the 7th 
house from that of the wife (7th)—The lord of the lagna 
i.e. Venus is with the Sun=the seperative planet. Mercury 
too is the lord of the sign occupied by Rahu- Hence 
Mercury too causes seperation. Then Saturn aspects Venus 
and Rahu aspects the lagna. All these seperative influen- 
ces on the lagna and the lord of the lagna therefore caused 
stirilization of the wife. 


(19) Mercury ina Lagna and Disease. Mercury=the 
significator of "SKIN" is located in the chamdra lagna. 
It is hemmed in by malefics and is also aspected by Ketu. 
Thus there is the disease called "leucoderma". 


(20) Disease Through the Sign in the Lagna. Rahu is 
afflicting the lagna as well as the chandra lagna.  It'is 
also afflicting the lord of these lagnas. Hence there is 
cancer in the limb no 1] denoted by sign no: 1] in the lagnas. 
It would be noted that there is no benefic influence 
either on the lagnas in question or on Saturn their lord. 


(21) Isolated Planet and Disease. Mars is in debilitation 
in the 8th house and is aspected by Rahu. Here the role 
of Venus is that of a disease causing planet as it has the 
lordship of the 6th house and the house 6th to the 6th. 
Hence there is absolutely no bemefit to mars by the aspect 
of Venus. The result was "ATROPHY OF THE MUSC- 
LES. 


229 


(22) Disease By Definition Lunacy. The lord of the lagna, 
the lord of the 4th housh and the planet Mercury arc- 
doubly hemmed in by malefic influence. There is a 
malefic planet in the 4th house. The 5th house is hemmed 
in by malefics. The lord of the 5th house is under the 
aspect of Saturn. Moon is influenced by Saturn and Ketu. 
Jupitor is under the influence of malefics like Ketu, Saturn 
and Mars. Thus Jupitor is weak and it's aspect has not 
been effective. 


(23) Loss of Many Pregnancies. Mark the lordship of 
Mars. Itis the lord of the sign occupied by Sun and 
Saturn. By it's association with the 5th house Mars is 
therefore acting asa seperative and destroying force. 
Ketu is already aspecting the 5th house. Jupitor is no 
doubt aspecting the 5th house but Jupitor being the lord 
ofthe sign occupied by Kety is acting as Ketu and is 
therefore harming the prospects of the 5th house. 


(24) Death By Fire and the 8th House. MARS THE 
FIRY PLANET IS ASPECTING THE LAGNA. Venus 
too is aspecting the lagna but here also Venus being the 
lord ofthe sign occupied by Ketu is acting as Ketu ie. 
fire and is again throwing firy influence. The lord of the 
lagna is being aspected by the same firy Ketu. It would 
be noticed that Ketu contains in it the firy influence cf 
Sun as well—The firy Sun is in the 8th house. Mercury 
with fire is also fire. 


(25) Mode of Death Importance of Planets Vis-Vis the House. 
THE PLANET Saturn is influencing the lagna, the lord 
of the lagna, the 8th house and the lord of the 8th house. 
One is tempted to consider Saturn asa watery planet 
being the lord of the 12th house. But since Saturn is lord 


230 


of the sign occupied by the firy planets Sun and Mars, it 
will act as a firy planet and as such will bring about death 
by fire and not by water. 


(27) Blindness. Sun representing the eye is situated 
in the house of eye in an inimical sign. Both sun and the 
2nd house suffer particularly because both are aspected 
by Mars. 


(28) Subhash Bose Death by Air Crash. Saturna planet 
that is airy in nature is occupying the 11th house, as the 
lord of the sign occupied by Venus representing a high 
class vehicle. Saturn is influencing most of the factors 
that denote the mode of death i.e. the 8th house, the 
lord of the 8th house and the lord of the lagna. 


(29) Paralysis Death of Father by. Mars is occupying 
the 9th house the house of father. He is there as the lord 
of the sign occupied by Saturn and Rahu—both of which 
are planets of nerves. 


(30) Amputation of Feet. Mercury is the lord of the 
12th house (feet) from the Moon, and Saturn is the lord of 
the [2th house from Sun. Both of them are significantly 
occupying the 12th house from Sun. Marsis aspecting 
both Saturn and Mercury. Besides Jupitor the lord of 
pisces (feet) lagna is located in the 12th house from the 
lagna and is aspected by Saturn as lord of one of the houses 
standing for injury Viz the 11th house. Hence the ampu- 
tation of the feet. 


(31) Amputation of the Right Hand. Saturn being the 
lord of the 3rd house from the lagna and the Surya lagna 
represents the right arm. Mercury lord of the 3rd house 


231 


from Moon too represents the right hand, Saturn 1s 
aspected by Ketu while Mercury is aspected by Mars. 
Mars, it would be noticed is the lord of the sign occupied 
by Ketu and as such doubly acts as Mars. Again Kew 
has on it the influence of Mars and as such acts as double 
Mars. No wonder then if Mars and Ketu gave more than 
an ordinary injury. 


(32) Parashar’s Raja Toga in Illustration. Mars the lord 
of the lagna is in intimate relation with Jupitor and Moon 
lords of trines. Hence the yoga. 


(33) Karakakhya Toga in Morarjee': Horoscope. Exhalted 
Saturn and exhalted Jupitor are in mutual-kendras, there- 
by constituting the "KARAKAKHYA" YOGA. 


(34) Losses in the Bhukti ofa Toga Karaka Planet. This 
person sufferred financially in the main period of Rahu 
and the sub period of Saturn. It will be noticed that the 
influence of the malefic planets Mars, Rahu and Saturn 
is being felt by the lagna. Thus the aspect of Saturn is 
harmful even though for people born in Virgo and Taurus 
ascendants Saturn is said to be a very good benefic planet 
for them. 


(35) Marriage from a High Family. Sun the highest 
among the planets is himself the lord of the 7th house. It 
is'being aspected by another royal planet Moon. Jupitor 
has in it four fold value. Firstly it is the significator of 
"value". Secondly it is the lord of the house of wealth 
and value ie. the 2nd house, Thirdly it is the lord of 
house of income which becomes again a factor for value. 
Fourthly it is the lord of the sign occupied by the Moon 
—acting as the lagna and as such represents "Value" 


232 


again. The aspect of Jupitor is thus not an ordinary 
aspect. It has made the in-laws belong to a royal family. 


(36) Mohd AliJinnah. Mark the value in Jupitor. It 
is the significator of value. Then it is the lord of the 1th 
house—a house of value and income. Thirdly it is the 
lord of the 2nd house and as such represents wealth and 
value. Then it is the lord of the sign occupied by Sun 
and as such acts as the Surya lagna and therefore as a 
factor of value. Lastly it is the lord of the sign occupied 
by Moon and as such again represents value as a lagna 
factor. Thus Jupitor a manifold reprecntative of Value 
is fully aspecting both the 4th house and it's lord Venus, 
thereby making the 4th house i.e. property most valuable. 
He had not only much property of his own but was 
mainly instrumental in getting ‘SPAKISTAN” territory. 


(38) Vipteet Raja Toga and Immense Wealth. Mercury 
is the lord ofa very bad house viz the 12th. It is situated 
in the 6th house from the 12th ie. badly situated from it. 
Mercury is again lord of the 3rd house—a bad house 
again and is situated 3rd from the 3rd house ie. badly 
placed again‘ from a bad house. Mercury is more ove) 
occupying an inimical sign and is aspected by malefics 
Rahu and Mars. Besides Mercury is hemmed in by Sun 
and Saturn. Last but not the least Mercury is not in 
association with or under the aspect of any benefic planet. 
Thus Mercury harms the prospects of the 3rd and the 


indirectly. 


(40) Adhi Toga An Example Of. Venus, Mercury and 
Jupitor—the natural benefics are occupying from both the 
lagna and the Moon the 6th, 7th and the 8th place 
respectively. These three benefics are throwing their 
influence on the lagna and the chandrs lagna as well as 
on either side of them with the result that the native 
was rolling in money all through his life. 


233 


(41) Indira Gandhi—Planets Aspecting their Own Signs. 
The lord of the lagna aspects the lagna and the planet 
jupitor is aspecting the lord ofthe lagna. The lord of 
the Chandra lagna aspects the Chandra lagna and the 
planet Jupitor again aspects the Chandra lagna. The 
lord of the Surya lagna aspects the Surya lagna and the 
planet Jupitor is again aspecting the Surya lagna. Mars 
aspects the sign scorpio, the benefit goes not only to 
scorpio but also to the house where the other sign of Mars 
is situated ziz the 10th house. This accounts for the 
ruling powers that she is wielding, 

(42) General Nasser of UAR. Mars is fully aspecting 
the sign Aries and is himselfaspected byJupitor. This 
has the effect of boosting not only the house containing 
the sign Aries but also the ascendant where the othe: 
tl Mars i. Scorpio is stituated. The result was ruling 
powers. Similarly Saturn the lord of the Surya 
lagna aspects tht Surya lagna. and Jupitor also aspects 
the Surya lagna. Thus the Chandra lagna in which the 
' ther sign of Saturn is located also gets strengthened. In 
this manner all the three lagnas get boosted with — the 
result that he ruled for quite a long time. 

(43) T. B. Chavan, Cabinet Minister. Lagna is acqua- 
rius. The Surya lagna also is acquarius. The Chandra 
lagna is Virgo. Saturn and Mercury their lords are 
mutual friends. Hence all the three lagnas belong to one 
and the same category orclass. Venus is Yoga karaka 
from all the three lagnas. It is in exhaltation and is 
being aspected by a full Moon. It is not aspected by any 
malefic planet. Hence Venus is extra Strong and is con- 
ferring all comfort and ruling powers. 

(45) Ashoka Kumar Actor. Saturn and Mercury 
in themselves the lords of all the three lagnas. Saturn and 
Mercury are friends. Saturn thus becomes a great yoga 


234 


karaka. Then this planet is aspecting its own sign and 
thereby becoming all the more powerful. Fortunately 
that sign is located in the lagna which becomes strong. 
Saturn is thus extra strong and confers landed property 
and other long lasting results. 

(47) C. Rajagopalachari. Mars is aspecting it's own 
sign Aries and the benefit is being received by the other 
sign of the planet Mars i.e. by the lagna. The lord of the 
Chandra lagna is already aspecting the Chandra lagna. 
Jupitor is also aspecting the Chandra lagna. Hence all 
the three lagnas are strong. The influence of various 
planets on the lagna may be classified as under :- Sun 3. 
Moon 4, Mars 4, Mercury 7, Jupitor 3, Venus and Saturn 
zero. Total 21. The influences of Mars are the m< SI 
numerous. Mars is the lord of two lagnas and is very 
strong and is thus a great Raja yoga Karaka that gives 
ruling powers. 


(411) A Great Mystic. Mars the lord of the 9th house 
from thé lagna is aspected by Jupitor. Saturn the lord of 
ihe 91h house from the Chandra lagna is apecting the 
Chandra lagna. The lord of the 9th house from the 
Surya lagna is the Sun himself who constitutes the Surya 
lagna. The 41h house, the planet Moon, the Sun, and 
the lagna arc all under the influence of Saturn who is a 
planet of vairagya or dispassion. This gentleman even 
though a house holder is a great realized soul, and always 
lives in the “TURYA” or the Samadhi state of conscious- 
ness. 


(49) Dr. Goswami Girdhari Lal M.A. Ph.D. Astrologer. 
Mars is occupying the lagna. Ketu is also there and acts 
as Mars. Mars being the lord of the 6th house and the 
house 6th to 6th, is highly injurious. Both Mars and 
Ketu are influencing the lagna and it's lord: Their influ- 
ence is also felt by the Sun and the Moon through Rahu. 


235 


This is an indication of a serious injury to the head 
during boyhood. The second house from the Sun and 
the Moon lagna contains Mercury occupying it's own sign 
in that house. That Mercury is under the influence of 
both Jupitor and Venus. This gives ability for the livli- 
hood as an astrologer. 

(50) Rama Krishna Param Hamsa. Venus is the lord of 
the sign occupied by Saturn and Ketu and is afflicting the 
house for the family viz. the 2nd house. Venus and the 
2nd house are also aspected by Rahu. Rahu is also 
aspecting the 4th house—the "home". The 4th house 
has also the Kendra influence of three seperative planets 
Sun etc. The plight of the lord of the 4th house repre- 
senting the "home" has already been seen by us. The 
12 house contains the lord of the sign occupied by Rahu. 
On the same house there is the kendra influence of Saturn 
as well. All these seperative influences cospired to give 
Sanyas to this great saint. The aspect of Jupitor on the 
lord of the 12th house eould not prevent the advent of 
the Sanyasa against so many factors in favour ofsanyas. 

(51) Absence of Male Issues. The location of Mars and 
Saturn is worth study. Both of these malefic planets are 
throwing their malefic influence on : (A) the 5lh house, 
(B) the lord of the Sth house. (C) On Jupiter, (D) On 
the 9th house. This gentleman either lost the pregnancies 
or lost the few progeny that he had. He has no issues. 

(52) Women who Poisoned her Husband. The lord of the 
lagna is Venus herself. who being the Karaka of the wife 
is occupying the 1 Ith house from the lagna, Mars the lord 
of the 7th house is 8th from Venus. Venus is 6th from it. 
Similarly Venus is 8th from Jupitor the Karaka of the 
husband. This 6th and 8th position of the lord of the 
lagna from all the three factors standing for husband was 
responsible for the extreme enmity in question. 


236 


Some Rules For Direction or “Dasa” 


(1) A decision as to when how and in what manner 
the planets give their effects is arrived at in Indian Astro- 


logy by means of the directional system known asthé 
"DASA SYSTEM. ' 


(2) Dasa is of many kinds. But the most usefull 
tried, and one in most use is ethe '"VIMSHOTTARI®! 
DASA SYSTEM. The method of working out the planet 
that rules a person at the time of his birth has already 
been given in chapter. 


(3) In this chapter we will dilate upon a few ofthc 
most important rules of this directional system: The first 
point to be seen in this connection is as to which of the 
planets arc friends to two or all the three lagnas ¢tz. the 
lagna. the chandra lagna and the Surya lagna. II a 
planet is friend to most of the lagnas it will give it's results 
in preference to other planets. For example if the lagna 
is acquarius, the sun is occupying the sign Sagittarius and 
the Moon is located in scorpio, the question as to which 
planets are benefic or otherwise would be decided from 
the Sagittarius or the scorpio lagna. Thus in the horoscope 
Jupitor Sun, Moon and Mars would be considered as 


237 


Benefics while Venus Mercury and Saturn would be 
- :onside red as malefics. 


(5) If according to the principle enunciated above 
a planet becomes a benefic or a yoga karaka planet, it 
would give good results. Ifthe lord of the sub period 
too 1s a benefic or a Yoga karaka planet from these lagnas 
the results would be all the more nice from the point of 
view of finances etc. 


(6) It should be remembered that the effects of the 
planet whose sub-period is running is reletively more 
important than the one whose main dasa is running. In 
other words where the main dasa lord is not a benefic 
planet but the sub period lord is so, the results would 
still be somewhat good. 


(7) If the sub period lord is a friend of the main dasa 
lord and is situated in good places from the main dasa 
lord i.e. in the company of, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th 
and 11th houses from the main dasa lord, the subperiod 
lord gives still better results. If the lord of the dasa is 
located in a good house (as detailed above) from it's own 
signs as well, the results are still further nice in quality. 


(9) The most important ofall points to remember is 
that the sub—period lord should be in good strength. If 
the sub period lord is benefic as determined above, is 
located in one of the kendra houses, is occupying it's sign 
of exhaltation or it's own house, or is located in a friendly 
sign, or is in the middle of the house, is not in the influence 
of malefic planets either by aspect or by association, is 
in association with or under the aspect of benefic planets, 
is retrograde, is not situated in the very beginning or the 


238 


fag end of a sign, is not weak in navamsha, then the sub 
period lord will give very good effects in regard to the 
house over which it has its lordship. On the contrary 
ifa planet though it is lord of a good house but is situated 
in bad houses i.e. the 6th 8th or the 12th, is in debilitation 
or is in an inimical sign, is under the influence by assoc- 
iation or aspect of malefic planets, is in the ven' beginning 
or at the very fag end of a sign, is weak from the 
navamsha position, is eclipsed, is "ATICHARI" ie. 
being in the vicinity of Sun isin very fast motion, the 
planet will give bad results even ifit may be the lord of 
a good house. 


(10) When three planets are located in the same sign, 
and one of them is a natural malefic and the other two 
natural benefics, and if there is the main and the sub 
ruling periods of the natural benefics, then the results of 
the dasa and the bhukti relate to the traits etc of the 
natural malefic planet. For example ifthe ascendant is 
cancer and the planets Mars, Venus and Jupitor are toge- 
ther in any sign, and if the dasa is of say Jupitor and the 
bhukti of Veuus, then the events will relate to the traits 
and qualities of the planet Mars, This result will, of 
course be good as Mars for the people born in Cancer 
ascendant is a very good planet. 


(11) When the planet having the main ruling period 
and the sub ruling period are located in the same sign, 
the events will relate to the house in which the two planets 
are situated. 


(12) When both the main and the sub period lords 
are aspecting one and the same house, the events would 
relate to the house aspected by them. 


239 


(13) When the planet having the dasa and _ that 
having the bhukti arc mutual enemies, and are located 
6th/8th from each other, and the lord of the sub period 
is located in the 6th, 8th or the 12th house from the 
lagna, then events such as hurdles, oppositions, enmities, 
struggles, change of position take place. 


(14) The lords of the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 11th and 
12th houses in the horoscope give trouble in the body 
in their main and sub periods. In other words if the 
main dasa lord and the sub dasa lord are both lords of 
any one of the above stated houses and are located also 
in one of these houses, then that dasa and bhukti would 
bring aboutdisease etc. Ifsuch a dasa and bhukti falls 
in the appropriate portion of life death even is likely in 
that period. It should, however, be remembered that 
the weaker the planets the more troublesome they would 
prove. 


(15) When Jupitor becomes the lord of the 4th and 
7th house or is the lord ofthe 7th and the IOth house, 
it has the defect of owning kendras. If such a Jupitor is 
located in any of the houses mentioned above, it would 
cause physical trouble in its dasa and bhukti. 


(16) Rahu and Ketu are shadowy planets. They do 
not have any independent effects. If these shadowy 
planets are situated in good houses ie. in 2nd, 4th, 5th, 
etc and the lords of the houses occupied by them are also 
strong by their location in kendras and in exhaltation 
sign é/¢} then these shadowy planets give good results in 
their dasa and bhukti. 

(17) Ifthe shadowy planets Rahu and Ketu are under 
the influence, either by location or by aspect of benefic or 
Raja yoga karaka planets, they would give the gn«d 
results of those benefic or the Raja yoga karaka planets. 


240 


INDEX 


Page 
Abdication-illustrated 

Windsor. 222 
Acquarious Lagna-Saturn and Mars acting 

together. 197 
Academic Career. 

Rep: by 2nd house. 91 
Activities. 

Rep : by Mars. 26 
Adhi Yoga. 74, 233 

rationale of. 75, 90 

and Saravali. 74, 76 

conditions for. 74 
Adoption 2nd house. % 
Adventure. 

Rep : by_8th house. 170 
Advisory Capacity. 

Rep : by 5th house. 126 
Agriculture. 118 
Air Travel. 108, 197 
Airy Houses. 5I 
Amputation of Feet. 206,231 

illustrated. 231 
of Right Hand. 106, 231 
Anaemia by moon. 24 


241 


Aspect of Mars Kills. 2" 


Amusement. [30 
Rep : by 5th house 

places of. 130 

Arms. Rep: by 3rd house. 106 

Rep: by 11th house. ag 


Aspects of Rahu and Ketu. 
Aspects Exercise in. 


Astrology Yoga for. 33 
‘Ascendant. ; 
Aries. BS 
Taurus. 84 
Gemini. Be 
Cancer. sae 
Leo. Kb 
Virgo. 86 
Libra. B7 
Scorpion. 87 
Sagittarius. 88 
Capricorn. 88 
Pisces. 89 
Ashok Kumar—<actor. 235 
Asthma. 32 
Balarishta and 1st house. 66 
and 5th house. 131 
Belly. 

Rep : by sign 5. 68 
Benefics Natural. 8 
Bhavat Bhavam Principle. 27 
Bhairava Rep : by Saturn. 126 
Birth Chart. 

Nature of. 1 
Blindness. 

Illustrated. 18, 94, 231 


242 


Blood. 
Body. 
Bulky. 
Stature of. 
Bone Fracture. 
Illustrated. 
Bones. 
Brahm Rep by Jupitor. 
Bravery—3rd house. 
Business Partnership 
Rep: by 7th house. 
Black colour and Rahu. 


Blood Rep : by 4th house. 


Rep : by Moon. 
Body as a Whole. 
Boyhood. 

Rep : by 2nd house 

Rep: by Mercury. 
Bravery. 

Rep: by Mars. 
Brethers Younger. 

Rep : by 3rd house. 


Elder Rep : by I}th house. 


Carnival. 
Rep : by 5th house. 
Caste. 


Determined from Lagna. # 


Casetlessness and Rahu. 
Charitable Disposition. 
Rep: by Mercury. 
Chest. 

Rep : by 4th house. 
Cinema. 

Rep: by 5th house. 


65, 


66 
57 
64 
65 


225 
66 
126 
109 
60 
45 
24 
66 


91 
32 


26 


26 
195 


130 


82 
83 


31 


116 


130 


243 


Cold Effects of Saturn. 44 


Colour and the Gunas. 25 
Colour. 57 
Comforts. 

Rep : by 4th house. 117 
Conveyances. 

Rep : by 4th house. 117 
Cordiality and Lagna. 81 
Cosmetics 

Rep : by Venus. 38 
Courage 

Rep : by 3rd house. 109 
Cough 

Company of Saints. 105 
Dancing. 4 
Darkness and Saturn 41 
Death. 

By dawning illustrated. 161 

By affiction of 3rd Lord. 107 

Rep : by 8th house. 167 

involves 2nd house. 95 

involves 7th house. 157 
Discoveries. 

Rep : by 3rd _ nouse. 108 
Diseases. 

Rep : by 6th house. « 141 

Rep : by 4th house. 116 
Debts and 6th house. 142 
Decoits Rep : by Mars! 85 
Defence departt. 

Rep : by 3rd house. 109 

Rep : by 12th house. 14 
Deity 5th house. 126 
Delay and Saturn. 43 


244 


Deliberate Action. 

Rep : by Ist house. 

Rep : by 3rd _ house. 

Rep : by 11th house. 
Desire. 

Located by Moon. 
Digestive System. 

And Jupitor. 
Directional strength. 

Of Jupitor. 

Of Venus. 

Saturn. 

Mars. 

Mercury. 
Disease. 

Through Planets in Lagna. 


Through debilitation of lagnesh. 


And Saturn. 

Rep: by 11th house. 

Rep : by 4th house. 
Dishonour. 

Rep : by 8th house. 
Dispassion. 

Rep : by Saturn. 
Divine help. 

Rep : by 9th house. 
Diverce 

Seen from 7th house. 

Caused by seperative influence. 
Durga. 

Rep : by Venus. 
Deva Keralam. 

On Riots. 

On thefts. 


224 
196 
119 
174 
236 
176 


155 
155 


126 


118 
144 


245 


On various lagnas. 62 


On pleursy. 70 

On wealth for Acquarius people. 103 

On SSKAHAL” Yoga. 189 

On want of Progeny. 129 

On 9th house. 178, 180 
Duke of Windsor. 222 
Ears. 

Rep : by 3rd house. 225 
Education and the 2nd house. 97 
Eighth house signs in. 171 

Is longivity. 165 

Is discoveries. 170 

Is foreign travel. 170 

Is research. 170 

Is watery. 51 
Eleventh house. 

Unselfishness. 61 

Foreign elements. 140 

Planets in. 194 

Injuries. 140 

Air Travel. 197 

Value. 198 

Finance of Govt. 198 

Lord of, is malefic. 199 
Emotions. 

Rep : by 4th house. 59 
Enemies. 

Rep : by 6lh house. 144 

Rep : by 4th house. 120 
Enjoyments. 

Rep: by Venus. 37 
Epelepsy. 

Rep : by Moon. 115 


245 


Rep by : 4th house. 

Rahu a cause. 
Exhaltation Signs of Planets. 
Evolution. 


How confirmed by Astrology. 


Exams competetive. 
Exertions. 
Rep : hy 3rd house. 
Expenses. 
Rep: by 12th house. 
Eye. 
Left rep : by 12th house. 
Right rep : by 2nd house. 
Left rep : by Moon. 
Over use of. 
Face. 
Rep: by 2nd house. 
Rep: by Venus. 


Rep : by Taurus in Lagna. 


Family planning. 

» Rep: by 2nd house. 
Fancy Goods. 
Farming. 

Rep: by 4th house. 
Fat in body. 
Father, 

Rep: by 9th house. 
Favour from Govt. 

Rep : by 9th house. 
Fear and 4th House. 
Feet. 

Rep: by 12th house. 

Rep : by Pisces in Lagna. 
Fine arts. 4th house. 


115 

115 
YH 
57 
57 

130 


58 


208 


205 
205 
205 
208 


92 
92 
84 
89 


96 
38 


118 
66 


177 


177 
115 


207 
89 
116 


247 


5th house signs in. 135 


Rep Intellect. 13, 126 
Fire, 51 

Rep : by Sun. V7 
First house sign in. 83 
Is related to birth. 12, 81 
Gives caste. 12, 57, 82 
Gives balarishta. 65 
Determines vocation. 2 
Represents honour. 12 
Cordiality. 81 
Is Fire. 91, 82 
Is very early life. 97, 82 
Is self. we 
Firy houses. 51 
Fits and 4th house. 115 
Flesh Rep : by Mars. 26 
Food. 

Rep: by 2nd house. 98 
Foreign Elements. 140 

Rep : by 6th house. 140 

Rep : by 11th house. 46 


Foreign things and Rahu. 

Forei vel 8th h We 
oreign travel Sth house. 13,51, 115, 120 

Fourth House. 


Friends rep by 3rd house. oe 
Friendship Planetary. 15, 16 
Determination of. 
Gains. 194, 197 
Rep by 1 Ith house. 
George Bernard shaw. 
Lene life of. ast 
Girdhari Lal! oe 
Gi char. 63 


How it works. 


248 


Godse. Comments on. 
Govt. Kep by 10th house. 
Govt. Favour. 
Grand Sons. 
Gunas 

Colours Rep by. 
Hanuman Rep by Mars. 
Harshness 

Rep by Saturn. 
Head 

Rep by Lagna. 
Heat 

Rep by Sun. 
Height 

Rep by Ketu. 

Rep by 10th House. 

Meaning of. 
Hernia 
High Officials 

Rep by 9th House. 
Higher Knowledge- 

Rep by 9th House. 
Hindrances. 

Rep by 6th House. 
Hips. 

Rep by 9th House. 

Rep by Sagittarius in Lagna. 
Hitler. 

Comments ¢« u. 
Honour. 

Determined From Lagna. 


Determined From 10th House. 


Horoscope Del' of. 
Hotise Asperted by it Mord 


228 
187 
176 
179 


25 
126 


42 
58 
17 
93 
189 
188 


228 


177 


Hurdles. 

Rep by 6th Haus. 
Husband. 

Rep by Jupitor. 

Cruelty In. 
Hysteria. 

Rep by Moon. 
Illiteracy. 

And Saturn. 

And Rahu. 
Impotéiicy, 

Rep by 7th House. 

Rep by Mercury 
Imprisonment. 

Rep by 12th House. 
Injuries. 

To Head. 

Rep by 6th House. 

Rep by [Ith Hi use. 

Inland Travels. 
Intellect. 

Rcp by Sth House. 
Int filiations of Mind. 

Rep by 4th House. 
Indira Gandhi. 

Comments on. 
Inimical Placement of Lagnesha 
Intestines. 

Rep by 6th House. 

Rep by Virgo in Lagna. 

Introduction to Astrology. 
J.L.Nehru. 

Ruling Powers of 


250 


222 


Journeys Short. 


Rep by 3rd House. Ths 
Journeys Long Inland. 
Rep by 9th House. 17" 
Jupitor. 
What it Represents. 196 
Is Strong Benefic. S4 
Is Wealth. 34 
Is Value. 34 
Is Long. 36 
Is Husband. 36 
Can Act as Mars. 50 
Is Brahmin. f2 
Deffective When Owning 2 Kendras. 33 
Feet For Aries People. 35 
Value For Acquarius people. 
Is Govt. Favour! 37,188 
Is Oratory. 37 
Is "Ta" Varga. 
Is Liver. 
Is Spleen. 88 
Is Digestive System. 88 
Is Fat. 66 
Kahal Yoga. pa 
Kala Purusha. 24.7 
Karakakhya Yoga. 81,239 
Karmas: 61 
Kendra Aspect. 54 
Kendra Ownership. 119, 157. 186 
Ketu. 
Is Firy. 47 
| Symbol of Height. 93 
Gin * pected Results. 3 
Special Aspect of. 50 


201 


With a Swakshetri Benefic. 48 


What it Stands For. 47 
Kindness. 

And Venus. 39 
Kingdom. 

Rep by 10th House. 188 
Knees. 

Rep by 10th House. 68 

Rep by Saturn. 42 

Kumar. 153 
Lady Love 

Rep by Sth House. 129 
Lagnas. 

Convention About. 1 

Are 3 in Number. 63 

And Tissues. 66 

And Longivity. 72 
Lands. 

Rep by 4th House. 118 

Rep by Saturn. 118 
Legs. 

Rep by 11th House 14 

Rep by Saturn 4 

Rep by Capricorn. 14 
Letters. 

Rep by Sun. 22 

Rep by Moon. 25 

Rep by Mars. 30 

Rep by Mercury. 34 

Rep by Jupitor. 37 

Rep by Venus. 40 

Rep by Saturn. 45 
Leuc 6derma? 32,66 


Liberation and 12th House. 208 


ols 


Limbs. 


Determined From Lagna. 67 
Liquid. 

Rep by Moon. 24 

Rep by Venus. 22 
Liver. 88 

Longivity and 8th House. 60 
Lords of Signs. 2 

Lotteries. 130 
Lunacy. 115,132 
Lungs. 

Trouble Illustrated. 227 
Luxury. 

Rep by Venus. 37 
Luxurious Enjoyments. 

Rep by 12th House. 205 
Maha Dhana Yoga. 

And the First House. - 76 
Mahatma Gandhi 

Comments on. 224 
Male Issues. 

And the 5th House. 127 

Denial of. 127 
Malefic Planets 

In the 5th House. 133 

Natural. 8 
Marriage. 

From High Family. 232 

By Love. 15] 

Average Years for. 153 

Rep by 7th House. 151 

Many Times. 157 
Marrow. 

Rep by Mars. 30 


253 


Is Zeal. 25 


Is Red. 25 
Is Flesh. 26 
fs Muscles. 26.66 
Is !Ka’! Varga. 36 
Is of Small Stature. 33 
It's Position in Gemini Lagna. 29 
Directional Strength in | Oth. 30 
When Neecha in Lagna. 28 
Masses. 
Rep by 4th House. 118 
Menials. 
Rep_by Saturn. 41 
Menon Y.K. 226 
Mental Ailments. 33 
Mercury. 
Is Vishnu. 315181 
Is Charitable. 31 
Is Public Spirited. 31 
Is Skin 32,66,229. 
Is of Long Stature. 32 
Is Impotent. 34 
Has Directional Strength in Ist! House. 34 
Represents 'T' Varga. 34 
Is Good Looking. 92 
Mind! 115 
Ministership. 
Rep by 5th House. 126 
Mode of Death-Drowning. 207,230 
Molid Ali Jinnah. 232 
NJoojla Trkion Signs. 15 
Moon. 


What it Represents. 23,25 


Treated av | aun. 2] 


ts Mild and Gentle. 85 
Is « f Varying Strength. = 
Is Navy. 22 
Is Canal 1)ep ulm nt, 2 
ts Water Supply Departs 22 
Ts Popularity. 23 
Is Public. 23 
Is Mother. 23 
Makes One Fickle: 85 
Ii Sth House Dangerous Io the Father 13] 
Is Liquid. 24 
Is Left Eye. 24 
(Jives Epelopsy. 115 
Swoons. 115 
T.B. 24 
Pleursy. 24 
Pneumonia. 116 
Blond Pressure. 24 
Is Lungs. 24 
Ts blood. 24 
Is Significator Of Infancy. 65 
Is Sarasvati. 126 
Represents {Ya “Ra”? "La" Etc. 25 
Is Of White Colour. 25 
Is Lagna. 62 
Mother. 
Rep By 4th House. 116 
Meéuthy 
Rep By 2nd House. 13 
Muscles. 
Rep By Mars. 66 
Mysticism. 
frustrated. 236 


256 


Nineth House. 

Is Morality. 

Is Spirituality. 

Is Religion. 

Planets in. 

Stands For. 
Nakshatras. 
Measures Of. 
Nasser General. 
Nature of Man. 
Rep by 4th House. 
Rep by Ist House. 
Navy. 

Rep by Mpon. 


Neecha Signs of Planets. 


Neeécha Bhanga. 
Nero. 

Horoscope of. 
Nerves. 

And Saturn. 

Nineth House-Fire. 
Orange Colour. 

Rep by Sun. 
Oratory. 
Overseas. 
Paralysis. 

To Father Illustrated. 

Facial. 
Paramour. 

Rep by 5th House. 
Partnership. 

Rep by 7th House. 

Paternal Property. 


Phala Deepika, 


On 1st House vs 8th House. 


226 


231 


129 


60 
177 


165 


Phobia. 

Rep by Moon. 
PI inets. 

Aspects of. 

Having Separative Influence. 

In Retrogression. 

In 10th From Lagna. 

Lordship of. 

Lordship Illustrated. 

In Lagnas Effect of, Malefics Benefics: 
Pleasures of Bed. 

Rep by 6th House. 
Pleursy 

Rep by Moon. 
Pneumonia. 

Rep by Moon. 
Popularity. 

Rep by Moon. 
Pregnancies. 

Rep by 5th House. 
Princes. 

Rep by 2nd House. 
Private Parts. 

Rep by 7th Hous2! 
Profession. 

Rep by Lagna. _) 

And 10th House. ) 
Progress. 

Rep by 4th House. 
Property. 

Rep by 4th House. 
Public. 

Rep by 4th House. 

Rep by Moon. 


24 
7,8, 53 
an 


185,18" 
2,u3 

€ 

52 


140 


24,22 


24 
23 
128 
1B 


38 


189 
1? 
118 


23 
23 


257 


I'ublic Spirit. 


Rep by Mercury. 3 
Rahu. 

A Shadow. s 

Is Like Saturn. 45 

Is Black. 45 

Is Long and Tall. 32 

Is Slow. 45 

Is Nervous. 45 

Is "Separative". 45 

Is Illiterate. 45 

Causes Fear. 45 

Gives Sudden Results. 45 

Is Casteless. 46 

Is Always Retrograde. 47 

Special Aspect of. 50 

In 6th House Disease. 141 

In 10th House. 187 
Raja Yoga. 177, 232 
Rama Krishna Param Hamsa. 236 
Raj Gopalachari. 235 
Dr. Rajendra Prasad. 224 
Refinement. 

Rep by Venus. 38 
Religion. 

Rep by 9 th House. 61 
Rent. 

Income From. 118 
Residence. 

Rep by 4th House. 13 
Respiratory Canal. 

Rep by 3rd House. 13 
Retrogression. 

Implications of. 4/ 


258 


Is Strength. 
Riots. 
Rules For Dasa. 
Ruling Powers. 
From 7th House. 
From 10th house. 
From Ist House. 
From 2nd House. 
Samrajya Yoga. 
Sanyas: 
In Terms of Planets. 
Sarasvati. 
Saravali. 
And Adhi Yoga. 
Sarvarth Cintamani. 
And Maha Dhana Yoga. 
And Ruling Powers. 
And Educational House. 


And 5th as Father's House. 


And Bulky Body. 
Saturn. 

Is Karaka For Longivity. 

Is Black. 

Is Disease. 

Is Illiterate. 

Nervous. 

Causes Paralysis. 

Is Menial. 

Is Harsh. 

Is Knees And Legs. 

Is Slow Motion. 

Is Delay. 

Is Sad. 

Is Morose. 


37, 53 
118 
238 


14 
187 
78 
97 
187 


94 
126 


74,76 


77,198 
97 

97 

134 

65 


40 
40 
Al 
Al 
41} 66 
Al 
Al 
42 
42 
Al 
43 
44 
44 


259 


Is Cold. 44 


Is Dispassionate. 44 
Is Lands. 45 
Has Directional Strengh in 7th House, 45 
Rep "Pa" Varga. 45 
Is Impotent. 34 
Is Long in Stature. 5 
Scrotem. 
Rep by 8th House. 14 
Rep by Scorpio In Lagna. 68 
Second House. Signs in. 98 
Is Sustenance of Body. 12 
And Blindness. 94 
Is Family. 13 
And Education. 13 
Is Earthly. 51 
Is a Treasury or a Bank. 91 
Is Boyhood. 91 
Is Face. 92 
Lord of Is Killer. 95 
Is Value. 93,96 
And Adoption. 96 
And Ruling Powers. 13 
Is Speech. 92 
Is Music. 92 
Seas. 
Rep by 8th House. 14 
Self. 
Rep by Lagna. 12 
Rep by 3rd House. 104 
Selfishness. 
Rep by Fourth House. 121 
Semen. 
Rep by Libra In Lagna. 66 


20 


Rep by 1st House. 
Separation. 

Rep by 12th House. 

Rep by Sun. 

Rep by Saturn. 

Rep by Rahu. 
Seventh House. 

Marriage. 

Traits of. 
Sex. 

Rep by 7th House. 

Rep by Venus. 

Excess of 
Shiva. 

Rep by Saturn. 
Shoulders. 

Rep by 3rd House. 

Signs and Their Lords. 
Seventh House. 

Signs in. 

Is Business Partnership. 

Is Marriage. 

Is Airy. 

Sixth House. 
Skin. 

Rep by Mercury. 

Trouble Ulustrated. 
Sky. 

Rep by 10th House. 
Sleep. 

Rep by 12th House. 
Slow Motion and Saturn. 


Social Contacts and 7th House. 


Sons. 
Rep by 5th House. 


158 
14 
151,14 


51 
13,144,145,51 


66 
32 


189 
14 


43 
60 


127 


2fl 


Rep by 9th House. 127,178 


From Second wife. 179 
Sorrow. 

Saturn in 10th! 185 
Speech. 

Rep by 2nd House. 33 

Rep by 5th House. 35 
Stature. 

Of Body. 32,36 

Mercury. 65 

Saturn. 65 

Rahu. 65 
Stinlization of Wife. 229 
Subhash Bose. 

Death of. 231 
Suicide & 3rd House. 104 
Success in Undertakings. 185 
"Sudarshan" Defined. 63 
Sudden Results. 

And Rahu. 45 

And Ketu. 45 
Sudden Income. 

And the 9th House. 178 
Sun. 

Is Lagna. 62 

Is Vowels. 12 

Is Orange Coloured. 25 

Is Weak With 2 Enemy Planets. 39 

Rep Honour. 188 

What it Represents. £7.22 

Rep Right Eye. 24 

Rep Father. 17.21 

King and Govt. 17 

Rep Hugeness. 17 


262 


Rep Status. 

Is Charitable. 

Is "Separative". 
Is Bone. 

Fire. 


Swoons. 
Rep by Moon. 
Swami Rama Tirtha 


Lagna of. 
Temple. 


Rep by 12th House. 


Tenth House. 
Is Karmas. 
Is Honour. 
Is Height. 

Is Earthy. 

1 heft. 

Rep by Oth House. 

Third House. 
Is Self. 

And Suicide. 
Is Friends. 


Is Literary Activities. 


Is Longivity. 
Is Journeys by air. 
Is Exertion. 
Is Arms. 
Is Discoveries. 
Signs in. 
Transfer in Service. 
Truent. 
Yoga for. 


Truth Loving Nature. 


And Venus. 


21,66 


143 


13,104 
105 
13,105 
105 
105 
108 
109 
105 
108 
109 
119 


91 


38 


263 


LB. 


Given by Moon. 


Turya 
Twelfth House. 


And Liberation. 


Is negation of the Ist house. 


Eye Sight. 

Luxury. 

Drowning. 

Vipreet Raj Yoga. 
Unfaithful Husband. 
Expenses. 

Uncles. 


Unselfishness. 


And the 11th House. 


Urinary Tract. 


Rep by Venus. 


Uttar Kalamrit. 


House of Education. 


Venus. 


264 


And Injury. 
Location In 12th House. 
Directional Strength. 
Is "Cha" Varga. 

In the 6th House. 

Is Luxury. 

Is Enjoyment. 

Is Sex. 

Is Wife. 

Is Face. 

Is Refinement. 

Is Fancy Goods. 

Is Cosmetics. 

Is Truth Loving. 


98 


39 
37,39,54,205 
40 


Is Urinary Tract. 


Acting With Jupitor. 


Is Short Statured. 
Is Semen. 
Vices. 
Rep by 6th House. 
Victoria Queen. 
Lagnas of. 
Widowhood. 
Violence. 
Rep by 6th House. 
And Lagna. 
Vipreet Raj Yoga. 


Made by 8th House. 
Made by 6th House. 


Virtuous Deeds. 

Rep by 10th House. 
Vocation. 

And the Lagna. 
Vowels. 

Rep by Sun. 
Wastage. 


Rep by 12th House. 


Water. 
Rep by 4th House. 
Water (Contd). 
Rep by 8th House. 
Rep by 12th House. 
Rep by Moon. 
Rep by Venus. 
Watery Houses. 
Watery Planets. 
Give Bulk. 
Wealth. 


Determined From Lagna. 


38 
38 
65 
3,66 


13 


226 
228 


141 
80 
233 


168 
142 


61 
73 
22 
14,39 
51 


51 
51 
22 
22 


51 
64 


77 


265 


266 


From 2nd House. 
Yoga For. 
White Colour. 
Rep by Moon. 
Wife. 
Rep by Venus. 
By 7th House. 
'" Nd " 
Cruel Illustrated. 
Harsh 
Will to Work. 
Year of Marriage. 
Younger Brothers. 
Rep by Mars. 
Youth. 
Rep by 3rd_ house. 


Zeal represented by mars. 


Y.B. Chavan. 


58 
77 


25 


38 
154 


237 
169 


152 
26 
13 


26 
234 


