Baskaran System 


Astrologics 
ofkaalchakra 


A GENERAL STUDY 


Author: 
Prasanna Jothidamani 


K. BASKARAN 


Translators: 
S. GNANASAMBANDAN 
J. RAMA SUBRAMANIAN 


cen Au sw ne 


CONTENTS 


HOPCWONe iebcudlsbedsinentanutepmuataddnwestnianntuuuvaitercietendns Vv 
Note of Translators _______X 
Preraee oie da nie hate XI 
Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time_—_1 
Fiery, Earthy, Watery and Windy Signs................ 8 
Movable, Fixed and Common Signs..................... Il 
Kaalchakra - The Twelve Signs of Zodiac......20 
Kaalchakra - The Planets....................::cccceeeeeeeeeeees 30 
Bhava Characteristics of The Planets__33 
Kaalchakra - The Bhavas...............:c:cc:ccceeseeeeeeeees 52 
PTO aspects cael ences eae aides osceds aan eons: 75 
AE: 1) epee TES ce SSE EER ROR te eter ed ene sr een nee tae 103 
11 | ae a ee eae ee pe 128 
COATIC ET ei sticils ences aed eandecte eda chndenaiaiaeighi ideanisownciee 153 
EO acer cantnctiscbapteyanannwdaudesiecwarssiateosiaaaemarsamiacneaceeaes 178 
VO ages ess hs erat ed atte earn eaxaeeneeee 203 
Baad de sane iedestecewohunsteetwesxexiemmarieeveleetcemeninans 227 
no, 6 L(t One eg en ere eT 251 
SAO UE CAT TUIS, cases ts sasedisadcccsenieacsavvensesauetuatiauaeuedencey 274 
CADTICOPD seks ik oek ois se ee ees 300 
PROUUEANIOS: 22 oo ce Goensicheed eds peneeehandedisatic ce eetliouatensd: 327 
PSC OS. ounce cas shennan ieiduchatien ccnweustuaieetecadstGetlenmnaaucteide 352 
PRTATIO RUNG gsc aise casandescasiiad ua Sevdenaceraenateaanunanaragnaaeasts 377 
Kaalchakra - Residential Positions of Planets. ....383 
Kaalchakra - Dasha, Bhuktis ete.......................... 397 
Kaalchakra - Transit... ccc eceeeeeeeeeeeeseees 404 
Scope for further work..................::::ccccsceeeeeee essen’ 413 


fff 


Sri Maha Ganapathaye Namaha 


Dr. D.GR.Sharma 

Principal Lecturer, COE, UNITEN 
7th Km, Jalan Kajang Puchong, 
43009, Kajang, 

MALAYSIA. 


FOREWORD 


Astrology has been practiced for several centuries with varying 
results. The basis for making predictions in traditional astrology 
has been well known - the karakas of planets, the rasis, bhavas, 
aspects between planets, ownership etc. In addition to these, 
additional specific rules are also to be used and these are well 
known by the term yogas - there are several hundreds if not 
thousands of the yogas. An expert astrologer can make accurate 
predictions but the multiplicity of the rules can confuse the 
novice and uninitiated. 


The Krishnamurthy Padhdhathi, or KP system as it is popularly 
known, developed in the 20s century was a markedly different 
system and the late Sri Krishnamoorthy gave a new method of 
preparing the chart and a new set of rules for prediction. 
However, his rules still made use of the traditional aspects of 
planets. This system was further developed by Sri K. Baskaran 
of Madurai and his system now referred to as the KB system 
uses the calculation procedure of KrishnaMurthy. 


However, predictions are made based on the 'theory of cuspal 
interlinks' proposed by Sri Baskaran. This method does not 
use the aspects, ownerships, conjunctions, exaltations and 
debilitations of planets. The fundamental rules of this system 
are still obtained from the traditional system. However, the 
explanations given by Sri K.Baskaran on the basis of stars and 
elements for the rules of the tradition are very interesting. 


The basis of traditional astrology is the Kalapurusha Thathva. 
The zodiac is divided into the twelve signs of 30° each and the 
starting point of the zodiac is 0°Aries. The signs are given 


V 


various characteristics such as moving, fixed and common, odd, 
even, fiery, earthy, windy and watery, long and short, and besides 
these, the signs represent various things like the type of place, 
directions, body part, and many more and ‘includes everything 
under the sun’. , 


In a similar mamner, the zodiac is divided into the 27 Nakshathras 
of 13 deg 20 min each. Each Nakshathra has its own 
characteristics, and represents different body parts, has a different 
ruler and signifies many things similar to that of the signs. 


When a native is born, his ascendant falls in a particular point 
in the zodiac and the remaining eleven cusps are calculated using 
the Placidus House system. According to the KP system every 
point in the zodiac has its own set of rulers and these are obtained 
by dividing each nakshatra or star into subs and subsubs in a 
manner similar to that used for finding the dasa, bhukti, antara 
and sookshma based on the moon’s position. 


The gross position of the twelve cusps i.e. just the sign and the 
star of each cusp can be used for making predictions i.e. in the 
absence of accurate data, predictions can still be made about 
the general characteristics of the native. More precise 
predictions and timing of events can be made in the native's life 
only when the time of birth is accurately known. 


Baskaran’s research has been progressing from the specific to 
the general. His earlier books were related to the Cuspal 
Interlinks and making predictions when the precise positions of 
the cusps are known. This present work now takes up the general 
predictions relating to the native and he has in his characteristic 
way handled the topic extremely well. For example, the physical 
characteristics of a native with his ascendant in Aquarius are 
described in detail depending on the star in which the ascendant 
falls. The ascendant related characteristics like speech, courage 
etc are all derived from the corresponding cuspal positions in 
the Kalachakra. for exaniple, it states that “Cancer, the IV sign 
of Kalachakra is the VI house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
born will have diseases in the chest and in lungs. They will gain 
success in their li:2 with the confidence gained from their academic 


Vi 


qualifications:” These are the precise combinations .of the 
characteristics of the fourth house of the kalapurusha and the sixth 
house of the native. A practising astrologer can derive similar 
combinations. Such elaborations throughout the book shows the 
depth of analysis carried out by the author. By writing this book, 
Sti K. Baskaran, who is also my revered teacher of astrology, has 
given a new dimension to his writings and has given a new reference 
tool to the practising astrologer. However, the novice has to keep 
in mind that the actual outcome of predictions would be dependant 
on the exact positions of the subs, subsubs and their lords. 


I sincerely hope and pray that many such books would spring forth 
from the scientific mind of Sri K. Baskaran and illumine the field 
of astrology. May his service continue in the forthcoming decades. 


Hari Om. 
August 2005, DrD.G R. Sharma 
Malaysia. 


Vil 


Om Mahaganapathaye Namaha 


Shri A.R.BALAN 


Friends, 


Namaskarams. We are living in a modern and 
complex society with multiple dimensions of facilities and 
problems. Nobody in Tamil Nadu would have spelt the word, 
- Tsunami - till that fateful day of 26m December 2004. The 
earthquake in the deep sea causes Tsunami which is 
devastating with high tides while speedily reaching the 
seacoast. Capricom, the sign for coastal region 1s an earthy 
and movable sign. So the natural disaster of Tsunami lies in 
this sign and causes danger to those people whose VIII house 
is somehow linked to it. Thus, inferences are to be drawn to 
suit the present requirements for studying cases like 
Tsunami victims. 


Japan is a country of frequent natural disasters like 
earthquakes, volcanoes and tsunamis. It is a country of small 
islands. It was severely affected by the two atomic 
bombardments. These properties of Japan lead us to fix it in 
the sign Scorpio and especially in Mercury star to mark its 
developments in the field of electronics. If one has to visit 
this country, his IX or XII house must have a linkage with 
Scorpio; or he must be running the combined DBAS periods 
of Mars and Mercury. So people bom in the ascendant signs 
Sagittarius and Pisces will have an edge over others to make 
frequent visits to Japan. This is how the principles of 
Kaalchakra are to be adapted to our modem requirements. 


Vill 


This book is an eye opener in the above context. It 
teaches us to intrepret the basic significations of planets and 
houses. Shri K. Baskaran's theory of Cuspal Interlinks has 
had warm reception. It was acclaimed as one of the 
milestones of astrological researches in our country. I must 
thank Shri Daya Shanker for having given due credit to Shri 
K: Baskaran in his article, “ Sharing with Parasar ",in the Jan 
2005 issue of the journal, “ The Times of Astrology ", which 
is as follows: “ Shri K. Baskaran of Madurai is doing further 
a good work on this to make the scheme of Astrology very 
apparent about accurate unique predictions dependence on 
preferential treatment of bhavas in comparison to planets as 
per general astrology ”. It is further an acknowledgement to 
Shri K. Baskaran as few more books on Cuspal Interlinks 
have recently been published. Though these books are 
incorrect In many senses with pretended cum egoistic 
approaches and have not given proper and genuine credit to 
Shri K. Baskaran as the founder of the theory of Cuspal 
Interlinks, it has proved that people could not bypass the theory 
of Cuspal Interlinks any more. 


I appreciate the team of young and research minded 
astrologers around Shri K. Baskaran for upholding his 
theories to newer dimensions. I must also congratulate the 
publisher, the cover designer, the translators for bringing up 
this book in a good and attractive manner. I hope readers would 
really enjoy the fun of using the principles of Kaalchakra, 


after a deep reading of this book. 

Good luck. 
Madurai A.R. Balan 
15.08.2005 


IX 


Note of Translators 


Dear friends, 
Vanakkam. 


This is a new book on astrology and deals with the 
traditional concepts on “ Kaalchakra " with a newer 
perspective. Author Shri K. Baskaran is well known to you as 
a scholar on astrological researches and the founder of the 
theory of" Cuspal Interlinks * Indeed, this book should have 
come prior to his earlier works " Principles of Cuspal 
Interlinks * and “‘ Application of Cuspal Interlinks ”. 


The highlight of this book lies in its classification of 
Bhavas and Planets with reference to all the 12 Bhavas. With 
this book, even a traditional astrologer can get needed clues 
to give a set of reasonably meaningful and authentic 
predictions. Ancient astrologers have left us to derive 
accordingly forthe remaining I! signs by providing us with a 
set of basic concepts for Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra 
alone. Shri K. Baskaran, has explained his derivations from 
those concepts for all the 12 signs. He is a master of 
classifying principles for Bhavas so that the occult science of 
astrology could withstand before the present day 
requirements. 


The linkage of the Bhavas with other houses is the 
vital part of astrology in giving predictions. Every bhava or 
House has separate sets of significations for linking and 
being linked with every other bhava. A planet by being the 
common lord to more than a single horse creates a fcynergir 
signification. For example, Mercury, the lord o: Ill and the VI 
house to Aries, when linked to the I house, makes a person to 
become argumentative and when linked to the 1] house, makes 


him to earn by way of service in the fields of information and 
communication. The art of deriving combinations is the 
foremost requirement for understanding and applying KB’s 
Cuspal Interlinks theory. 


Compared to his previous books, this book would 
appear as simple and easier one to understand. Hence, we 
request the readers to have a thorough reading of this book to 
get memorized with the basic Kaalchakra concepts of 
astrology. 


Good luck. 


§S.GNANA SAMBANDAN 


J. RAMA SUBRAMANIAN, 
ll, 


Xl 


Om Mahaganapathaye Namaha 
OM Gurubyo Namaha 


My sincere thanks and acknowledgements to 


Shr T. Ramesh Kumar, Publisher, 

Shr A.R. Balan, My Guru, 

Shr Prof A.Vaithiyalingam, Salem, 

Shr Dr. D.G. R. Sharma, 

Shr S. Gnana Sambandan, 

Shr J. Rama Subramanian, 

Shr K. Rangarajan, Chennai, 

Shr M. Pazhanichamy and P. Thirumurthy, 
for their Ganapathi art work. 


and to all the booksellers, KB students, friends, 
relatives and to my family. 


Good luck. 


Prasanna Jothidamani 
K.Baskaran 
Madurai-16 


Xil 


Preface 


Man has been inquisitive about nature right since day one of 
mankind. He has been trying hard to solve its mysteries and 
studying it quite systematically. He envisaged different branches 
of science to study different aspects of nature. For example 
Physics deals with the laws of nature, Botany and Zoology deal 
with flora and fauna while Geology tries to peep deep down 
inside the earth and so on. 


Above all, there is yet another subject, which attempts to observe 
every thing not only under the Sun but much beyond. It is 
Astrology. Astrology is a divine science, which probably handles 
every thing without exception, from mini to maxi and from micro 
to macro. Obviously a sumptuous subject like this has to be 
quite complicated and so it is. Unfortunately, the research in 
Astrology could not be continued at the desired pace as it has 
been with other branches of science. Some of the so-called 
‘intellectuals’ even go to the extent of branding it as superstition. 


Since time immemorial our seers and sages have tried to identify 
the rhythm of nature and universe and attempted to put them 

into the verses (slokas) of Astrology. We are quite fortunate to 

have most of them inherited. But side-by-side it also entrusts us 

the responsibility of furthering it through research and honest 

hard work in order to make the laid down principles of Astrology 
more contemporary. 


This book is a small step in this direction. Kaalchakra, the Wheel 
of Time moves on and on ceaselessly. It is this wheel of time 
only which defines hours, months, years and centuries. Seasons 
come and go in a cyclic order. So it is perhaps with all the events 


Xil 


and occurrences in the cosmos. Everything has to move, rotate 
and revolve as per the dictates of Kaalchakra! 


I have endeavoured to delve deeper into the theory of Kaalchakra 
and have discovered a definite and orderly flow in it. Its 

knowledge may be scientifically and logically applied to read 

out the attributes in a horoscope. I am presenting my findings in 
this book for the benefit of the readers and all the students of 
Astrology. 


Needless to add that any mistakes or errors, if pomted out by 
the learned readers or any suggestions for the improvement in 
the subsequent editions will be very much solicited. 


XIV 


Kaalchakra 
-The Wheel of Time 


The Wheel of Time or the Kaalchakra is the very foundation of 
Astrology. It is the God of Time, the Kaalpurusha and every 
single horoscope cast is based on it. 


All events, happenings and incidents in the universe are so 
beautifully amalgamated into the Kaalchakra that they fit with 
absolute consistency into its map—the horoscopic chart. Aries 
is the Ascendant (first house) or the Zagna of the Kaalchakra 
with the rest of the matters and items organised systematically 
into the scheme of twelve houses. 


It is interesting to note as to how everything and anything, we 
feel, see or touch, whether living or non-living, whether natural 
or artificial are fitted into the system of Kaalchakra. 


As per the Hindu philosophy, there are three basic characters 
that exist-——Rajasam, Sathwamand Thamasam. 


Rajasam denotes a bundle of characters, which include 
activeness, short temper, anger, speed, etc. Sathwam is a mixture 
of softness, affinity and composure. Thamasam is an 
intermediary stage between ‘Sathwam’ and ‘'Rajasam’. 


Extending the same analogy to the science of astrology, the 
twelve signs from Aries to Pisces have been classified as 
Movable, Fixed and Common. Sathwa is the ideal character of 
mankind, as defined by Hindu texts. That is why, the fifth sign 


of zodiac, the Leo, the house of wisdom and divinity has been 
marked as the fixed house or a house of Sathwa in nature. 


Activeness with burning desires of materialistic life has been 
defined as ‘Maya’, i.e., 'the Falsehood’. The holy Bhagavat Gita 
preaches to observe calmness and to remain composed while 
carrying Out our social duties, as this only enlightens the way 
and the will to approach the salvation. The ideology of 
classifications of zodiac also is founded on firm ground of faith 
and belief in God. The principles laid down herein are fixed 
and never change and should be scientifically and logically 
applied while proceeding with astrological analysis. 


The Principle of Motion 


1, All the living things in the world are always on the move 
and therefore they have been placed under the Movable signs of 
zodiac, 1.e., Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn. 


Zi The trees, plants, mountains, lands, buildings and other 
non-living things are all stable in nature, so they have been placed 
under the Fixed signs of zodiac, 1.e., Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and 
Aquarius. 


3. The rest of the things are placed in the Common signs 
of the zodiac, i.e., Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces. 


The first house, the house of selfness, ego and activeness, the 
fourth house, the house of niaterialistic knowledge, the seventh 
house, the house of society and the tenth house, the house of 
karma are prone to changes from time to time. These movable 
houses explicitly or impliedly effect changes on the remaining 
houses. They are bound to be in motion all the time to 
consciously result into various modifications in the world. 


The second house, house of words and vision, the fifth house, 
house of wisdom, the eighth house, the house of life and the 
eleventh house, the house of satisfaction are identified as fixed 
in character They should remain steady and changeless to make 
the human life more meaningful. 


The third house is the house of mind. The mind is always full of 
changes and jumps from one thing to another. The sixth house 


2 Astrologics of Kaalchakra 


is a house of physique and is responsible for dual functions of 
appreciation (growth) and depreciation. The ninth house, the 
house of dharma withdraws both the virtuous and the sinful 
deeds of our parents. Finally the twelfth house, the house of 
moksha signifies that even the state of eternity is not permanent 
and the souls are bound to take birth again and again and change 
from one form to another. All these display the character called 
Common. 


It is therefore established that everything known to the mankind 

is categorised into these three heads—(i) the movable (which 

characteristically grow), (ii) the, fixed and (ii) the common 

signs. 

1. The animals and reptiles are, by nature, always on the move. 
So they have been placed to represent the movable houses/ 
signs of the Kaalchakra. 


2. The trees, plants, mountains, lands, buildings and non-living 
things are all basically stable in nature and therefore they 
have been placed to represent the fixed houses/signs of the 
Kaalchakra. 


3. The remaining items, which also include the birds are given 
the place of the remaiming houses and are called as the 
common houses/signs of the Kaalchakra. 


Intelligent living beings have been given place in the movable 
signs, while stable-minded ammals are in the fixed signs and 
those with unsteady minds lay in common signs. 


The time of the day also has been divided in the same manner. 
The morning time is represented by the movable, the afternoon/ 
evening time by the fixed and the night time by the common 
signs. 


Likewise different seasons have also been treated. The beginning 
of seasons is taken as the movable, the middle as the fixed and 
the final ripe part of seasons are considered as the common 
signs. 


Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time 


Nature 
Elements 
Body 


Taste 
Planets 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF MOTIONS { Table-1 ) 


MOVABLE 
Phlegm 
Water & Earth 


Flesh 

Glands 

Head, Lungs 

Kidney, Uterus 

Hips, Thighs 
Sweetness, Bitterness 


Venus, Moon 


FIXED 
Bile 

Fire 

Bones 
Nerves 
Neck, Heart 
Private parts 
Knees 
Saltish 


Sun, Mars, Rahu & Ketu 


COMMON 
Rheumatism 
Air, & Sky 
Blood 
Respiration 
Hands, Skin 


Stomach, Anus 
Feet 


Sourness, Astringent 
Jupiter, Mercury & Saturn 


On this basis, the movable signs contain within themselves the 
four important climates of the year—summer, windy, rains and 
winter. These are experienced in the months of Chitra/Chaitra 
(April/May), Aadi/Aashada (July/August), Aippasi/Aasweejam 
(October/ November) and Thai/Pushyam (January/February) in 
southern/northern part of India. These months represent the 
movable signs of Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn 
respectively. 


All the other items/subjects may also be classified as above. 
The Principle of Elements 


All the objects and the subjects in the world are composed of 
five basic elements-the sky, the fire, the earth, the wind and the 
water. This theory, of ‘Pancha Bhootha’, i.e., the five elements 
has been profusely used for understanding the nature of all the 
visible and invisible entities in the universe in almost all the 
schools of philosophy. 


The Hindus describe the matter, the ‘Pirakrithi’, as a container 
of the five elements, which vary in their respective natures. 


The fire, ‘the thermo’ devours everything that falls within its 

periphery and also increases the temperature, of its surroundings: 
Ascendant, the first house is made up of fire in the body-the fire 
to exist and the fire to metabolise. The fifth house is also a fiery 

house—the inner fire of the soul and the fire required for 

reproduction. The ninth house also has to be fiery so as to let 

the virtuous and sinful deeds of the souls to dissolve ultimately 

in the fire of almighty. Thus first, fifth, and ninth houses together 
are designated as the Triangle of Dharma, the yirtues. 


The earth, ‘the primordial matter’ is solid and dense. Compared 
to fire, it is extremely slow in reaction. Earth supports everything 
that exists like a mother and therefore is aptly symbolised as 
patience in Hindu mythology. The second house, the house of 
family, the sixth house, the house of physique and the tenth house, 
the house of karma are earthy signs. Man has an inherent 
attachment to these materialistic things. In other words, the 
illusion or the Maya induces the human mind to believe that 
things like family, body and karma are solid and permanent. 


Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time 5 


The set of second, sixth and tenth houses are defined as the 
Triangle of Materials, the money matters. 


The wind while passing through a garden, carries and spreads 
the fragrance of flowers but while passing through a drain carries 
the noxious smell alongwith. On its own, it does not have any 
property but acquires or withdraws qualities based on 
companionships and relationships while passing through the 
streets of life. The third house, house of mind, the seventh house, 
the house of atmosphere, the eleventh house, the house of 
satisfactions and desires belong to airy element. As per holy 
Quran, the mind on its own is a clean slate with no letter inscribed 
at the time of birth of a child. But the society paints good or bad 
colours during the progression of life. The third, seventh and 
eleventh houses are termed as the Triangle of Kama, the desires. 


The water has no colour, shape or size of its own but adopts the 
features of the container holding it. The water is the source of 
emergence for life. It is instrumental in growth of plants, 
blossoming of flowers and ripening of fruits. And that is why; 
the watery signs are referred to as fruitful signs. The fourth, 
eighth and twelfth houses, together represent the Houses of 
Moksha, or, in other words, the Houses of Houses. The fourth 
house is the residential place and the eighth is the house of uterus 
of mothers in different janmas or births and the twelfth house is 
the feet of the almighty, the final conclusion of the countless 
series of births. 


The sky is the space in which the time or the period of life 
traverses in a cyclic order. The sky itself is a big bale of mysteries 
and that is why, in Chidambaram, the holy place of Lord Shiva, 
the God stays as abstract whereas in other places, idols are 
worshipped. 


The light is essential for any kind of happening, and it emanates 
from heat or fire. The stability of any phenomenon requires a 
force called gravitational force, which is provided by the earth. 
These two basic elements form the building blocks for living 
beings, which further require wind and water to survive, grow 
and multiply. 


6 Astrologics of Kaalchakra 


tsased on four basic elements 07 tire, earth, wind and water, tne 
seers of astrology have provided the distinct characteristics to 
all the twelve bhavas or cusps. A question that arises here is, 
why the sky was not included im this classification exercise. 
The possible answer is that the sky 1s of permanent nature. They 
delegated the properties of sky to the stars, which are 
characteristically perpetual. Our ancestors have stressed upon 
the importance of making predictions by analysing the positions 
of the planets through the stars. 


The twelve signs of the zodiac are thus divided into three equal 
parts of 120 degrees each, and the signs of 1, 5 and 9 (Anes, 
Leo and Sagittarius) are called as the fiery signs. Next to the 
fiery signs, are the earthy signs,2, 6 and 10 (Taurus, Virgo and 
Capricom), each 120 degrees apart. Then, come the windy signs 
3,7 and 11 (Gemini, Libra and Aquarius) once again separated 
by 120 degrees each. Finally, the watery signs 4, 8 and 12 
(Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces). 


The twelve signs of zodiac are designated as fiery, earthy, windy 
and watery signs in an orderly sequence. The table below depicts 
the summary of classification of each sign. 


Aries Fiery and Movable sign 
Leo Fiery and Fixed sign. 
Sagittarius Fiery and Common sign.. 
Taurus Earthy and Fixed sign 
Virgo Earthy and Common sign 
Capricom Earthy and Movable sign 
Gemini Windy and Common sign 
Libra Windy and Movable sign 
Aquarius Windy and Fixed sign. 
Cancer Watery and Movable sign 
Scorpio Watery and Fixed sign 
Pisces Watery and Common sign 


All this exercise is quite purposeful as each classification is 
identified with certain set of characteristics. A detailed hst is 
provided below: 


Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time 


VARIOUS CUSPAL ATTRIBUTES UNDER DIFFERENT 
CLASSIFICATIONS 


Cuspal Attributes in Fiery, Earthy, Watery and 
Windy Signs 


Note : The entire zodiac around us inscribes a complete circle. 
of 360 degrees, which is divided into twelve signs. Also the 
horoscopic charts comprise of 12 houses or bhavas. These 
bhavas have been assigned specific attributes by the seers of y. 
astrology covering all the aspects of our life and environ. Thes€ 
twelve cusps fall on different points along the zodiacal circle "’ 
and thus lie in different signs, out of which some may be fiery 
while others may be earthy, windy or watery. The attributions 
of the cusps get modified in the light of the colours of these 
signs. A list of logically derived cusp-wise attributes in seriatim 
is provided hereunder depending on their falling in fiery, earthy, 
windy or watery sign: 


(1) Fiery Signs 
Cusp Cuspal attributes when falling in fiery Sign 


] Short-tempered, unattached, arrogant, proud, heavy 
body structure. 


Inclined to tell lies, spendthrift, maintains harmful hands. 
Courage, self-confidence and boldness. 


Rough in education, working in fire-related professions. 


ne & NY 


Compelling in sexual relationship, rape, involvement in 
prostitution and vulgar dancing, having sexually 
motivated children. 


Illnesses caused by excessive body-heat- 
7 Immoral wife and opponents. 


8 Muscle damages, murder, threatenings, accidents, 
suicide, mental instability. 


9 Lack of sharpness despite being educated, religious 
fanaticism, multiple affairs, managerial skills. 


10 
11 
12 


Industry, chief executive responsibilities. 
Sadistic friends, being greedy and egoistic. 
Involving in secret and sabotage activities, masochistic. 


(2) Earthy signs 


Cusp Cuspal attributes when falling in earthy sign 


1 


vzaAa un & WwW Ww 


10 


11 
12 


Mild natured, stout and soft body, family attachments, 
brisk, respectful, open in talks. 


Creating improvement on anything, safe-keeping. 
Yielding nature, lack of boldness, cowardliness. 
Deeply educated, agriculture, rearing domestic animals. 
Caring sexual relationship, interests in arts. 


Getting sick due to cliniatic conditions, allergy, neural 
disorders. 


Morally upright wife, caring opponents. 


Facing damages due to natural disasters, getting struck 
in thunders, gales and heavy winds, losses and 
disappointments due to family attachments:: 


Polygamy, relationships with strangers, research abilities, 
keeping learned skills within themselves. 


Medical profession, business interests in the fields of 
food, dress materials, vegetables, grains and agriculture. 


Caring friends, greedy. 
Research attitude in good and useful fields. 
(3) Windy signs 


Cusp Cuspal attributes when falling in windy sign 


1 


2 
3 


Atrocions and playful in nature, actmg to be caring, lean 
body. 


Witty and prideful but clear speech. 
Stressful mind, making many attempts. 


Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time 9 


11 
{2 


Expert in mathematics education, ability to write stories, 
articles and poems. 


Comedian, playwright, magic squares and games. 


Respiratory disorders, work in petrol and gas companies, 
airports, research centres and dye industries. 


Intelligent wife, partners and opponents. 


Accidents due to air pressures and natural disasters, 
bomb blasts. 


Skill in research, excelling in higher education, teacher, 
professor. 


Intelligence agencies , work m planes, work which needs 
human intelligence. 


Carefree and happy disposition, freshness. 


Secret research activities, gathering intelligence, 
archaeology, research education. 


(4) Watery signs 


Cusp Cuspal attributes when falling in watery sign 


I 


Calm nature, silent, angelic qualities, unattached 
saintliness, fat body, soft speech, never revealing 
anything. 


Speech unclear yet full of wisdom. 
Impulsive, presence of mind. 


Adjusting to changing circumstances, doing very well 
in education, good in teaching, and interest in agriculture, 
careful maintenance of water bodies. 


Getting religious wisdom, divine powers, great yogi, 
expert in arts. 


Fluid disorders, work in liquid related fields. 
Devout wife, partners and opponents. 


Accidents and dangers in lakes and seas, affected by 
heavy 


rains, problems in urinary track. 


9 Excelling in higher education, preacher, deep 
involvement in sexual relations, religious-minded, 
travelling by sea. 


10. Work in harbour, bridge and danis. 

1] Helping tendencies, happy mind and strong friendship: 

12 Research in discovering underground water etc. 
Cuspal Attributes in Movable, Fixed and Common Signs 


The three types of signs, movable, fixed and common have also 
been systematically earmarked to the twelve cusps. The basic 
characteristics are as follows. 


(1) Movable: Height, length, breadth, travel, distance, 
routes, paths, markings, places, continuous, endless, target, 
movable in nature, growth, improvement, superior, inferior, 
outside etc. 


(2) Fixed: Stable, singular m quality, steadiness, constant, 
fixed quantity, length, breadth, travel, destination, main street, 
fixed place and objects, end, seat, inside, steady growth, stability, 
decisions etc. 


(3) Common: Unsteady, dual in quality, unstable in nature, 
dilemma, inconstant quantity, approximate, returning back, by- 
lanes, temporary places and objects, tenancy on rent, living out 
of hometown, unsteady growth, hanging, shaky, decadent, 
bending and yielding, unsteady in decisions, lack of proper 
completion despite good start etc., 


The logically blended nature of these three types of signs for 
the individual cusp is outlined as follows. 


If it is amovable sign the following general significations given 
for all the 12 houses will be growing in nature. 


If itis a fixed sign, these significations will be constant in nature. 


If it is a common sign, these sigmfications will be fluctuating 
in nature. 


Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time Il 


I@sp &® 


PhysicaMppearance, memory power, intelligence, anger, natural 
characteristics, actions, skills, colour and beauty. 


[1 Cusp 


Oratory skills, eyes, acceptance, gold jewellery, gems, money, 
expensive objects and documents. 


/// Cusp 


Courage, self-confidence, body movements, sensory organs, blood 
vessels, communications, writings, messages, change of places, 
shifting of materials, actions, acumen. 


IV Cusp 


Production organs, education, house, land, vehicle, machinery 
and belongings. 


V Cusp 


lilood cells, deep knowledge, wisdom, arts, children, love, 
religious beliefs. 


VI Cusp 


Food. dress, medicine, loans, success, litigations, digestion 
organs, slavery and diseases. 


VII Cusp 


Spouse, partner, opponents, persons we meet in normal course 
of life, sensory organs in the body and kidney. 


VIH Cusp 


Longevity, accidents, troubles, sorrow, pains, sufferings, 
struggles, reproductive organs, dishonour and disgrace. 


IX Cusp 


Higher education, travel, foreign life, research, extra-marital 
affairs, anus and trustworthiness. 


12 Astrologies of Kaalchakra 


X Cusp. 


Profession, prestige, status, executive positions, excessive 
production disorders in the body and thigh. 


XI Cusp 


Self-cravings, happmess, expectations, son-in-law, daughter-in- 
law, knees and vitamins in the body. 


AlICusp 


Secret activities, losses, investments, expenses, comforts in 
travel, sleep and sex, feet and failure of organs in the body. 


On the analogy as mentioned above, the twelve signs of zodiac 
have their characteristic properties. It is dealt in detail in the 
next chapter. 


Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time “3 


/Cusp 
Movable 
Physical appearance, memory power, intelligence, anger, natural 


characteristics, actions, skills, colour and beauty are all in growing - 
nature. 


Fixed 
Physical appearance, memory power, intelligence, anger, natural 


characteristics, actions, skills, colour and beauty are all constant 
in nature. 


immovable 
Physical appearance, memory power, intelligence, anger, natural 


characteristics, actions, skills, colour and beauty are all 
fluctuant : mn nature. 


// Cusp 

Movable 

Oratory skills, eyes, acceptance, gold jewellery, gems, money, 
expensive objects and documents are all m growing nature. 
Fixed 

Oratory skills, eyes, acceptance, gold jewellery, gems, money, 
expensive objects and documents are all constant in nature. 


Innnovable 

Oratory skills, eyes, acceptance, gold jewellery, gems, money, 
expensive objects and documents are all fluctuating in nature. 
WICusp 


Movable : Courage, self-confidence, body movements, 
sensory organs, blood vessels, communications, writings, 
messages, change of places, shifting of things, actions, acumen 
are all m growing nature. 

Fixed 

Courage, self-confidence, body movements, sensory organs, 
blood +: ssels, communications, writings, messages, change of 


14 Astrologics of Kaalchakra 


places, shifting of things, actions, acumen are all constant m 
nature. 


Immovable: Courage, self- confidence, body movements, 
sensory organs, blood vessels, communications, writings, 


messages, change of places, shifting of things, actions, acumen 
are all fluctuating in nature. 


IV Cusp 


Movable 
Production organs, education, house, land, vehicle, machinery 
and belongings are all m growing nature. 


Fixed 


Production organs, education, house, land, vehicle, machinery 
and belongings are all constant m nature. 


Immovable : Production organs, education, house, land, vehicle, 
machinery and belongings are all fluctuating m nature. 


V Cusp 
Movable 


Blood cells, deep knowledge, wisdom, arts, children, love, 
religious beliefs are all in growing nature. 


Fixed 


Blood cells, deep knowledge, wisdom, arts, children, love, 
religious beliefs are all constant in nature. 


Immovable 


Blood cells, deep knowledge, wisdom, arts, children, love, 
religious beliefs are all fluctuating in nature. 


VI Cusp 
Movable 


Food, dress, medicine, loans, success, litigations, digestion 
organs, Slavery and diseases are all m growing nature. 


Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time fe) 


Fixed 


Food, dress, medicine, loans, success, litigations, digestion 
organs, slavery and diseases are all constant in nature. 


Immovable : Food, dress, medicine, loans, success, litigations, 
digestion organs, slavery and diseases are all fluctuating in 
nature. 


Vil Cusp 
Movable 


Spouse, partner, opponents, persons we meet in the course of 
life, sensory organs in the body and kidney are all in growing 
nature. 


Fixed 
Spouse, partner, opponents, persons we meet in the course of 


life, sensory organs in the body and kidney are all constant in 
nature. 


Immovable 


Sponse, partner, opponents, persons we meet in the course of 
life, sensory organs in the body and kidney are all fluctuating in 
nature. 


VI Cusp 
Movable 


Longevity, accidents, troubles, sorrow, pains, sufferings, 
struggles, reproductive organs, dishonour and disgrace are all 
in growing nature. 


Fixed 


Longevity, accidents, troubles, sorrow, pains, sufferings, 
struggles, reproductive organs, dishonour and disgrace are all 
constant in nature. 


16 Astrologics of Kaalchakra 


Immovable 


Longevity, accidents, troubles, sorrow, pains, sufferings, 
struggles, reproductive organs, dishonour and disgrace are all 
fluctuating in nature. 

IX Cusp 


Movable : Higher education, travel, foreign life, research, 
extra-marital affairs, anus and self-confidence are all in growing 
nature. 


Fixed 


Higher education, travel, foreign life, research, extra-marital 
affairs, anus and self-confidence are all constant in nature. 


Inmovable : Higher education, travel, foreign life, research, 
extra-marital affairs, anus and self-confidence are all fluctuating 
in nature. 


X Cusp 
Movable 


Profession, prestige, stafus, executive positions, excessive 
production disorders in the body and thigh are all in growing 
nature. 
Fixed 


Profession, prestige, status, execufive positions, excessive 
production disorders in the body and thigh are ail constant in 
nature. 


Immovable 


Profession, prestige, status, executive positions, excessive 
production disorders in the body and thigh are all fluctuating in 
nature. 


XI Cusp 
Movable 


Self-cravings, happiness, expectations, son-in-law, daughter-in- 
law, knees and vitamins in the body are all in growing nature. 
Kaalchakra - The Wheel of Time 17 


Fixed 


Self-cravings, happiness, expectations, son-in-law, daughter-m- 
law, knees and vitamms m the body are all constant m nature. 


Immovable 

Self-cravings, happiness, expectations, son-in-law, daughter-in- 
law, knees and vitamins in the body are all fluctuatmg m nature. 
Xl Cusp 

Movable 


Secret activities, losses, Investments, expenses, comforts m 
travel, sleep and sex, feet and failure of organs in the body are 
all m growing nature. 

Fixed 


Secret activities, losses, investments, expenses, comforts in 
travel, sleep and sex, feet and failure of organs m the body are 
all constant m nature. 


Immovable 


Secret activities, losses, investments, expenses, comforts in 
travel, sleep and sex, feet and failure of organs in the body are 
all fluctuatmg in nature. 


On the analogy as mentioned above, the twelve signs of zodiac 
have their characteristic properties. It is dealt with in the next 
chapter. 


18 Astrologics of Kaalchakra 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF ELEMENTS (Table 2) 


FIRE EARTH WATER AIR SKY 
Body Stomach Legs Thighs Chest Head 
Metal Copper Gold Lead lron 
Colour Reddish Golden White Black Blue 
Taste Saltish sweet Astringent | Sourness Bitterness 
Excretions Blood Shit Urine Carbon Sperms 
Shape Triangle square Semi-circle Pentagon Circle 


Planets Sun, Jupiter Mars Moon, Venus Mercury Sat, Rah, Ketu 


Kaalchakra - ‘The Twelve 
Signs of Zodiac 


The twelve signs of zodiac have their own typical characteristics, 
properties and attributes. They are hereunder enlisted seriatim. 


ARIES 


Movable and fiery sign, sterile, four-legged, masculine, lack of 
improvement, anger, incomprehension, beastly, lengthy, docile 
animal, lanes, morning time, house with compound, front part 
of the street, small mountains, sparsely populated areas, place 
where thieves live, low-lying areas, industrial area, security 
personnel quarters, crumbled house, singular sign, east direction, 
red colour, forest, Ashwini |, 2,3, 4, Bharani 1, 2,3, 4, Krittika 
1, the first sign of the zodiac, 0 to 30 degrees, own house of 
planet Mars, Chitra/Chaitra month (April/May). 


TAURUS 


Fixed and earthy sign, neck part, affectionate, submissive, stable, 
calm, beastly, lengthy, four-legged, semi-beneficial, feminine 
sign, bull sign, main street, mid-day, house with compound, 
middle part of the street, banks, secret rooms, treasury rooms, 
place where ladies live, dual sign, cast direction, fertile lands, 
white colour, make-up room, Krittika 2, 3,4, Rohini 1, 2, 3, 4, 
Mrigashirsham/Mrigashira 1, 2, the second sign of the Zodiac, 
30 to 60 degrees, own house of Venus, Vaikasi/Vaisaka month 
(May/June). 


20 A Strologics of kaalch akra 


GEMINI 


Common and windy sign, intclligent, shoulders, hands, easy 
grasping, instability, human nature, two-legged, narrow sign, 
masculine sign, double male figures, final part of the street, 
heavy traffic, double-storied house, night time, hilly places, play 
grounds, communication office, publication office, research 
centres, book shelf, good voice, singular sign, black colour, 
south-east direction, Mrigashirsham/Mrigashira 3, 4, 
Thiruvadirai/Arudra |, 2, 3, 4, Punarpoosam/Punarvasu 1, 2,3, 
the third sign of the Zodiac, 60 to 90 degrees, own house of 
Mercury, Aani/Jyeshta month (June/July). 


CANCER 


Movable and watery sign, lungs, chest, silent, fast understanding, 
growthful, fully beneficial sign, calm nature, multi-legged sign, 
narrow, staying houses, grain storage yard, education, 
educational institutions, building complexes, house with 
compound, crab figured, front part of the street, morning time, 
Punarpoosam/Punarvasu 4, Poosam |, 2,3, 4,Ayilyam/Aslesha 
1, 2,3, 4, the fourth sign of the Zodiac, own house of the Moon, 
dual sign, white colour, south direction, agricultural fields, 
gardens, 90 to 120 degrees, Aadi/Aashada month (July/August). 


LEO 


Fixed and fiery sign, stability, heart, short-tempered, 
incomprehensive, barren and sterile sign, beastly natured, 
narrow, four-legged sign, lion figured, hill tops, forests, deserts, 
forts, government buildings, music and drama auditoriums, 
gambling places, pleasure houses, hidden treasures, labour 
wards, masculine sign, house with compound, lodges, beginning 
of a street, mid-day time, Makham 1, 2, 3, 4, Pooram/ 
Purvapalguni |, 2,3, 4, Utharam/Uttarapalguni 1, the fifth sign 
of the Zodiac, own house of the Sun, singular sign, red in colour, 
south direction, 120 to 150 degrees, Avani/Shravana month 
(A ugust/Septem ber). 


Kaalchakra—The Twelve _—_ Signs of Zodiac 21 


VIRGO 


Common and earthy sign, unstable, stomach, calm, affectionate. 
semi-beneficial sign, sterile, human natured, narrow, lonely 
house, night time, last part of a street, hospital, pharmacy, 
clothes, food articles, potato, expertness, first-aid box, grain 
storage yard, libraries, gardens, 150 to 180 degrees, the sixth 
sign of the Zodiac, Uthara/Uttarapalguni 2, 3,-4, Hastha |, 2, 3, 
4, Chitra |, 2, own house of the Mercury, dual sign, black colour, 
city, south-west direction, yellow colour, Purattasi/Patrapada 
month (September/October). 


LIBRA 


Movable and windy sign, kidney, uterus, having good voice, 
intelligent, quick comprehension, windy and elevated places, 
lifeless objects, lengthy, singular sign, semi-beneficial sign, 
masculine sign, main street, early morning time, persons with 
status, womanisers, arts such as music and drama, research, self- 
praises, the seventh sign of the Zodiac, Chitra 3, 4, Swathi 1, 2, 
3,4, Visakam/Vaishaka 1, 2, 3, own house of the Venus, 180 to 
210 degrees, golden colour, west in direction, bazaars, Aippasi/ 
Aasweeja month (October/November). 


SCORPIO 


Fixed and watery sign, stable, sexual organs, silent, 
knowledgeable, quick in comprehension, ability to explain 
clearly what is learnt, power, prestige, sign of living things, 
lengthy, useless well, drainage, muddy places, lavatory, 
tanneries, slaughter houses, mutton market, operation theatre, 
burial ground, iron godowns, chemical laboratory, prison place 
where executions take place, multi-legged sign, beneficial sign, 
feminine sign, house with compound, mid-day time, the eighth 
sign of the Zodiac, Visakam/Vaishaka 4, Anusham/Anuradha 1, 
2,3, 4Kettai/Jyeshta 1, 2,3, 4,own house of the Mars, 210 to 
240 degrees, dual sign, black colour, well, west direction, 
Karthikai/Karteega month (November/December). 


22 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


SAGITTARIUS 


Common and fiery sign, dual sigh, immovable sign, anal parts, 
difficult to comprehend, multi-storied house, semi-masculme 
and semi-feminine sign, semi-beastly and semi-humanly sign, 
angry, place full of trees and plants, arms godowns, religious 
institutions, schools, colleges, temples, law courts, lanes, night 
time, barren and sterile sign, the ninth sign of the Zodiac, Moota 
1, 2, 3, 4, Pooradam/Poorvashada 1, 2, 3, 4, Utharadam/ 
Uttarashada 1, own house of the Jupiter, 240 to 270 degrees, 
singular sign, red and golden colour, north-west direction, outer 
area of the town, war-front, Margazhi/Margashira month 
(December/January). 


CAPRICORN 


Movable and earthy sign, semi-beneficial sign, thigh, 

affectionate, quick comprehension, slum area, lonely places, 

hospitals, mortuary, cow-shed, caves, crowded places, litter spot, 
low buildings, street, feminine sign, sea-horse figured, 

cowardliness, self-pride, selfishness, extremely inclined towards 

sex, early morning time, the tenth sign of the Zodiac, Uthradam/ 
Uttarashada 2, 3, 4, ThiruvonanyShravana 1, 2, 3, 4, Avittam/ 

Dhansshta 1, 2, own house of Saturn, 270 to 300 degrees, dual 

sign, white colour, north direction, marine area, Thai/Pushya 

month (January/February). 


AQUARIUS 


Fixed and windy sign, lifeless sign, knee, having good voice, 
quick comprehension, main street, unequal places, corridor, 
ditches, hidden places, radio, television, place where we keep 
the refrigerator, pot figured, cowardice, be suspicious of, 
perseverance, mid-day time, senii-beneficial sign, three legged, 
the eleventh sign of the Zodiac, Avittam/Dhanishta 3, 4, 
Sathayam/Sathabisha 1, 2, 3, 4, Poorattadhi/Poorvabadra 1, 2, 
3, own house of Saturn, 300 to 330 degrees, singular sign, dark 
yellow in colour, north direction, water bodies, Masi/Maagha 
month (February/March). 


Kaaichakra—The Twelve Signs of Zodiac 23 


PISCES 


Common and watery sign, living sign, leg and feet, silent, 
intelligent, grdwthful, seas, ponds, fishing places, tanneries, salt 
producing places, prisons, wells, muddy places, oil wells, 
harbours, generous, two-legged sign, feminine sign, dual in 
nature, double-fish figured, humble, night time, fully beneficial 
sign, the twelfth sign of the Zodiac; Poorattadhi/Poorvabadra 4, 
Uthrattadhi/Uttarabadra |, 2,3, 4,Revathi |; 2,3, 4,own house 
of the Jupiter, 330 to 360 degrees, dual sign, ash colour, north- 
west direcion, oceans, Panguni/Palguna month (March/April). 


These attributes of the different signs of zodiac are very general. 
It is important to learn to pick up appropriate ones quite 
judiciously, suiting to the particular individual and his query 
being examined. 


4 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


SIGN 
Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


THE TABLE OF CHARACTERS OF THE XII SIGNS OF ZODIAC (Table 3 ) 


RULER 
Mars 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 
Sun 
Mercury 
Venus 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Saturn 
Jupiter 


MOBILITY ELEMENT 


Movable 
Fixed 
Common 
Movable 
Fixed 
Common 
Movable 
Fixed 
Common 
Movable 
Fixed 


Common 


Fiery 
Earthy 
Airy 
Watery 
Fiery 
Earthy 
Airy 
Watery 
Fiery 
Earthy 
Airy 
Watery 


GENDER 
Masculine 
Feminine 
Masculine 
Feminine 
Masculine 
Feminine 
Masculine 
Feminine 
Masculine 
Feminine 
Masculine 


Feminine 


LEGS 

4 legged 

4 legged 

2 legged 

6 legged 

4 legged 

2 legged 
Mono legg 
8 legged 

2 legged 
Mono legg 
3 legged 

2 legged 


COLOUR 
Red 

White 
Green 
Whitish red 


Smoke white 


Multi-coloured 


Violet 
Golden 


Dusty brown 
Light brown 


Light black 


Dark green 


HEIGHT 
Short 
Short 
Medium 
Medium 
Long 
Long 
Long 
Long 
Medium 
Medium 
Short 
Short 


THE TABLE OF CHARACTERS OF THE XII SIGNS OF ZODIAC (Table- 4) 


Sign. Duration Symbol Mobility(2) Places Plaat 
Aries 1H42M Ram Wandering Forests Grains 
Taurus 1 54 Bull Wandering Fertile sand Creepers 
Gemini 2 06 ~~ The pair* Walking Grove , City Shrub 
; (*The lady with a Veena and a man with a Cudgel making romance) 
Cancer 2 12 Crab Crawling River, Channels Creepers 
Leo 2 06 Lion Running Hills Trees 
Virgo 2 00 #;Maiden* Walking Town Shnub 
A* Carrying fire & Grains) 
Libra 2 00 Scales Idle River bed, Bazzar Creepers 
Scorpio 2 06 Scorpion Creeping Muddy areas, Wells Grains 
Sagittarius 2 12 Double figured* Marching Battle field, Outskirts Trees 
(ehorse in the bottom & human with bow and arrow in the upper half) 
Capricorn 2 06 Sea monster Flying Watery areas, Sea shore Creepers 
Aquarius 1 54 Pot with holy water Stable Ponds Throny 
Pisces 1 42 Double fish Swimming Sea/Oceans Foliage 


Sugarcane 


Organs 
Head 


Face 
Lungs* 


Heart* 
Stomach 
Hips 


Navel 
Privateparts 
Thighs 


Knees, 
Shin 
Feet 


Sign 
Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 


Internal Organs 
Brain 

Eyes, mouth 
Neck, ears 
Lungs* 

Heart* 
Intestines 
Uterus 

Testicles, ovaries 
Anus 

Thighs 

Knees 

Feet 


structural Organs 
Skull 

Jaws 

Collar bones 
Chest bones 
Wrists 

Hip joints 

Back bones, kidneys 
Back bones 

Thigh bones 

Knee joints 

shin joints 

Fingers in the feet 


Side Of Organs 


Right eye, foot 
R/ear, lung, spinal chord, knee 
R/Heart, thighs 


R/Hip 

R/Ovaries, testicles, kidney 
L/Ovaries, testicles, kidney 
L/Hip 

L/Heart, thigh 

L/ear, hand, shoulders 
Lieye, foot 


THE TABLE OF CHARACTERS OF THE XII SIGNS OF 


Notes: 


i) 


ii) 


ZODIAC ( Table3 ) 


All the movable signs denote the begining and the past, 
the fixed signs the middle and the present and the 
common signs denote the end and the future of any event. 


All the movable signs denote the mornings, the fixed signs 
the middays and the common signs the evenings of 
a day. 


iii) All the movable signs denote minerals while the fixed signs 


iV) 


v) 


V1) 


Vil) 


viii) 


1X) 


28 


denote origin and the common signs denote the life. 


All the movable signs denote streets with heavy traffic 
while the fixed signs denote highways and main roads 
and the common signs denote the lanes. 


All the fiery signs denote East in direction, while the earthy 
signs are South, the airy signs the West and the 
watery signs the North according to a tradtional school 
of astrology. 


All the fiery signs are barren, while the earthy signs are 
semi-fruitful and the airy signs are dry and the watery 
signs are fruitful. 


All the fiery signs denote short temper, while the earthy 
signs patience and the airy signs pride and 
the watery signs denote peaceful. 


All the fiery signs are arrogant and the earthy signs are 
happy and the airy signs are sweety and the watery signs 
are calm in sounds. 


With the use of number of legs, we could identify the 
wheels of the vehicle, house-hold appliances, houses and 
animals etc. According to one classical school of astrology, 
the signs Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are multi-legged 
signs. Sagittarius has two fore legs and 4 legs in the back 
while Capricorn has 4 fore legs and multiple legs in the 
back side. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


x) Lungs and heart have been marked respectively in Gemini 
and Cancer in a few traditional texts while the 
remaining texts mark them in Cancer and Leo. Lung is an 
organ of respiration, hence an airy sign Gemini would be 
more appropriate. Heart, which has a non-stop functioning 
for the flow of blood, the liquid, could be placed in 
Cancer, the movable and watery sign. But Sun being the 
planet of generosity is the lord of the sign Leo, the 
house of romance. That is why some texts mark the heart 
in the sign of Leo. 


xi) All the Masculine signs are cruel signs while all the 
feminine signs are peaceful signs as per one of the 
traditional school. This gender classification of signs could 
be used for the intrepretation of many things such as sex, 
beauty, physical strength, courage, potencey, 
agriculture etc. 


Kaalchakra--The Twelve Signs of Zodiac 29 


Kaalchakra - The Planets 


The propounders of astrology detailed the nature, character and 
behaviour of individual planets or grahas. 


ATTRIBUTES OF THE PLANETS 
Here is an illustrative list of the attributes of the planets. 


Sun : Paternal 


Father, soul, head, tusk, right eye, stiff hair, bile, body, treatment, 
head diseases such as head-ache, fever, sexual relationship with 
unhealthy or mentally disordered women, strict vegetarianism, 
meditational powers, the ultimate god, alloy of five metals, 
invaluable gem, elephant, wheat, pepper, pilgrimage, day time, 
light, mountain, forest, village tour etc are some of the attributes 
ofthe Sun. 


Moon : Maternal 


Mother, the Supreme Goddess, Lord Ganesha, easy life, clothes, 
horse, sleep, duration of few days, fluctuating body structure, 
madness, tuberculosis, cold and cold-related diseases, left eye, 
eye brows, umbrella, job, fame, wavering, pearl jewellery, 
bronze, butter, rice, salt, black spots in the body, farmer, 
washerman, choultry, flowers with good fragrance, fan, strength, 
bathing etc are some of the attributes of the Moon. 


30 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


Mars : Brotherly 


Brother/sister, earth, Lord Karthik, Goddess Patrakali, short- 
tempered, potter, persons in fire-related profession, war, blood, 
wounds, bravery, copper, red gemstones, fear of fire, deep 
wounds, hatred, loans, adultery, potency, cheerful, goat, leader 
of army, surgeon, commanding posts, sexual relationship with 
widows, instant death etc are some of the attributes of the Mars. 


Rahu : Grandfather 


Science, grand father and paternal relationships, chemistry, 
physics, magic, thefts, various acting professions, cinema, 
profession as servants, foreign life, involving in such professions 
which are unfitting to his community, enchanting and conjuring 
magic, sexual relationship with women of ill-health, leprosy, 
military arms and missiles, swellings, chronic diseases, fear of 
poison, dangers in water, being handicapped, over-talking, gas 
troubles, fits, bile diseases, respiratory diseases, cut wounds, 
deep wounds etc are some of the attributes of the Rahu. 


Jupiter > Offspring 


Children, lord Brahma, wisdom, yoga practice, teaching 
profession, the eight great powers explained in ‘the Vedas, 
advices, clever and intelligent, good suggestions on 
administration, monarchy powers, family, service to the king, 
wealth, moral, fame, gifts from the king, nickname, divine 
matters, peace, gold, valuable gem stones, sweet, eyes, honey, 
groundnut etc are some of the attributes of Jupiter. 


Saturn : Servant 


Lifespan, the grace of mid-night god, means of living, bull pen, 
iron, slavery, servant, agricultural fields, blue gemstone such as 
sapphire, carpentry, theft, soul troubles, imprisonment, 
punishments from the king, useless talk, shameless, sufferings, 
talkative, loans, immoral acts, fainting, eating out, sexual 
relationships with widows; handicapped or women of low castes, 
living in lonely islands, eunuch, handicapped, mental instability, 
sexual diseases, hair, skin, nails, bile disorders, oil etc ate some 
of the attributes of the Saturn. 
= eS — om as] 


Kaalchakra—The Planets . 31 


Mercury : Uncte 


Uncle, education, knowledge, Lord Vishnu, businessman, 
accountant, the manager of wealth, ambassador, charioteer, 
orator, public speaking, poetry, tales, music, astrology, skill, 
true statements, Vaishnava sect in Hindu tradition, business, 
writing profession, sculpture, eunuch, chariot, traditional dances, 
paralysis, poisonous diseases, involvement with prostitutes, 
universal wisdom, reliable speech, lack of childbirth, green 
gemstones such as emerald, leaves etc are some of the attributes 
of the Mercury. 


Ketu : Grandmother . 


Wisdom, religious matters, maternal grandparents, laser 
equipments,. legal profession, professions of low status, 
prostitution, immoral professions, foreign life, deep wounds, 
leprosy, stomach pain, dangers with fire, pompous, lack of 
pleasure, imprisonment etc are some of the attributes of the Ketu. 


Venus « Spouse 


Marriage, residence, nickname, sexual relationship with many 
women, attractive prostitutes, musical instruments, inclination 
towards traditional dances, scented flowers, varions scents, bed 
mattresses, luxurions beds, royal ladies, beautiful women, sexual 
enjoyments, beauty, youth, dark eyes, wealth, vehicles, garlands, 
flags, gemstones, silver, shipping trade, witty speech, desires, 
divine prayers to the Goddess Lakshmi, exuding charm to 
general public, friendship, cows, milk, curd rice, lead metal, 
divine women, air and sea voyages etc are some of the attributes 
of the Venus. 


32 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PLANETS 


Note : The horoscopic charts comprise of 12 houses or bhavas. 
These bhavas carry specific well-defined attributes covering 
all the aspects of our life and environ. It is understandable that 
the characteristics of the planets will be influenced on account 
of their placement in these different bhavas. 


An illustrative hst of planetary characteristics in different bhavas 
_ in which the said planet or its stars appear is presented in the 
following: 


sun 
Bhava Characteristics of Sunin different bhavas 
1 Elegant structure, pride, strong bones in the body, 


prestigious activities, administration capacity, 
leadership quahty, status, self-prestige, executive 
responsibility. 


2 Government assets, treasury, financial institutions, 
documents of ministry of finance, stamps, financial 
status of a country, government orders, savings, 
opal,gems, government rewards. 


3 Government commands, national communication 
departments, posts and telegraph, telephones, news, 
advertisements, government messages, records, 
documents, national details. 


/ 


4 Government buildings, offices, mansions, palaces, 
vehicles, educational centres, colleges, urban lands, 
governments gifts, government staff quarters, 
government machineries, properties, agricultural lands, 
ponds, wells, water tanks, mountains, housing and 
transport departments. 


ed 


5 Government temples, function halls, politics, religion, 
governmental celebration of arts, sports meets, political 
leaders, government subsidy details, games, arts 
department, chess. 


Kaalchakra—The Planets 33 


10 


11 


12 


34 


Government loans, government litigations, government 
servants, food, dresses, medicines, employment 
schemes, food department, veterinary, agricultural and 
medical departments. 


General welfare, public populace, opponents, 
domineering wife, officers, those who have relationships 
with our country, public welfare departments. 


Government seizure, damages in properties and 
government buildings, stealing government documents, 
top leaders of the nation, death, quitting politics, 
government punishment, death penalty, removal of 
encroachments charge-sheets, criminal activities, fire 
accidents 


Religious departments, institutions of higher education, 
foreign embassies, government research centres, finance 
departments, foreign companies. 


Officers of higher anthority, government related offices, 
industrial centres, vocational educational centres, 
employment centres, government business centres, 
prestigious posts in government. 


Government halls, clubs, friendship centres, functions, 
guest house, co-operative centres, government rewards, 
monuments, government gifts and incentives, providing 
help, important leader in politics. 


Investigating department, customs department, sales tax 
department, audit department, prisons, hoarder, offices 
involving in secret activities, department which handles 
seizure, government hospital, place where post-mortem 
is carried out, offices which carry out punishments. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Moon 


Bhava Characteristics of Moon in different bhavas 


1 


Calm disposition, matured actions, confused mind, 
unstable acts, increase in water content of body, over 
thoughts, not accepting responsibilities, submissive, 
prideless friendship, co-operative. 


Frequent income, clear speech, consultant in financial 
companies, orator, quick acts through money, pearl 
ornaments, silver articles. 


Fast messages, news, tours, document writer, author of 
various articles, novels and poems, commentaries, 
encouraging news. 


Lakes, agricultural lands, boats, aquatic matters, watery 
fruits and vegetables, educational trainings, dams, rain 
water, underground water, wells, lakes, ponds, potable 
water, vehicles, refrigerators. 


Good acting performance, youthful acting, poets, 
thinkers, quick and enjoyable sexual relationships, 
pleasure clubs, children, playgrounds, intelligent 
children, cricket players. 


Labour in dams, ship workers, fishermen, plumbers, 
water related diseases, weakness, labour in agricultural 
fields, lunatic. 


Young-looking women, brisk women, sadistic sexual 
tastes, women with oscillating moods’, business partners, 
customers and those who meet us. 


Madness, unconsciousness, forgetfulness, bad thoughts 
and deeds, damages in water content of the body, losing 
intelligence, unfitting acts, lack of educational wisdom, 
dangers in water. 


Speedy researches, excellence in higher education, 
illegal affairs, ships, troubles through loans, professors, 
inventions, private research centres. 


Kaalchakra—The Planets =~ 35 


10 


11 


12 


Professions in water and liquids, medicines, white 
coloured objects, quick business, exports and imports. 
service in ships, harbours, fishing, boats, pipelines and 
wells. 


Confusing friends, quick satisfaction in anything, large 
friends circle, selfish persons, inclined towards liquid 
products. 

Quick expenditures, investments, sea voyages, hoarding 
of liquid products, enjoyable sleep and bed comforts. 


Mars 


Bhava Characteristics of Mars in different bhavas 


1 


36 


Brave acts, angry, impertinent, selfishness, excessive 
heat in the body, rough exterior, unyielding, short- 
tempered, never accepting to other's opinions, 
arrogance, pride, self-praise, immorality, insanity. 


Spendthrift, lying, dishonesty, ornaments made by red 
gems, metals, rough speech, daring, speech, sadistic 
speech, usage of bad language, indecent speech, harsh 
and wounding speech, defence weapons, stealing. 


Bravery, confidence, encouraging acts, wrong news and 
messages, forged documents, mental strength, rough 
intelligence, unnecessary negotiations, incompetent 
agreements. 


Rough education, house, lands, desire in vehicles, 
landlord, agricultural farms, poultry farms, chemical 
fertilizers, machineries, weapons, large industries. 


Rough sexual acts, sexually motivated children, indecent 
acting, singing, atheists, painters, sculptures, artists in 
colours, cabaret dancers, folk dancers, boxing. 
Damages in muscles, diseases due to body heat, service 
in industries, aggressive personality, tough servants, 
cooks, tailors, food articles, pharmacists. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


10 


11 


12 


Immoral wife, partner, arrogant wife, dishonest 
customers, terrorists, haughty bank officials, seeking 
help from others by force. 


Squabbles, tiffs, revolutions, revolts, terrorism, 
invasions, false allegations, police and military actions, 
troubles from brothers, weapons, bombs, attacks, ghastly 
accidents, rape, murder, robbery, usurping other's 
properties, swindling, cheating, suicide squad. 


Agricultural education, geology, engmeering education, 
history, archaeology, politician, political leader, head 
master, transport owner, hereditary landlord, criminal 
law departments, judges. 
Industries, fire related professions, departments for 
housing and land development, police, armed forces, 
administration officers, responsible officers for 
government documents, executive posts. 
Untruthful friends, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, ultimate 
success after many struggles, lunatic greed, getting or 
achieving what is wanted after facmg many hurdles. 
Improper and unbecoming activities, adulteration, 
hoarding, covert activities, service in operation theatres, 
prostitution dens, service in luxury hotels, investigation 
departments, smuggling. 

Rahu 


Bhava Characteristics of Rahu tn different bhavas 


1. 


Gigantic ideas in everything, thoughts, activities, 
overgrowth of body organs, respiratory disorders, 
penchant for alcohol and women, gourmet. 

Pretentious speech, soft spoken, keeping others' money, 
foreign currency, scholarship from abroad, leader for 
strangers. 

Clerk in embassies, ambassadors, settlement through 
compromises, foreign agreements, communications 
from abroad, foreign articles, foreign memos. 


Kaalchakra—The Planets 3 


10 


11 


i 


38 


Education abroad, government vehicles, palaces 
belonging to government, prisons, graveyards, narcotic 
manufacturing, production of adulterated and spurious 
goods. 


Love and sexual relationships with strangers, prostitution 
in foreign countries, nude dancing, invovement in 
gambling anddrinking bars, getting emotional in open 
places, good swimmer, athlete. 


Respiratory disorders, gourmet, service in production 
of narcotics, sedative foods, clove, cashew nut, almonds, 
cardamom, alcohol, anaesthetists in operation theatres, 
manufacturer of respiratory equipments. 


Wife and opponents from unknown places, partners, 
excessive sexual involvement, orgy, homosexual, neutral 
genders, lecher, womanisers, likes to have prolonged 
Sex. 


Incarceration, sadistic sexual desire, totally immersed 
in drugs and women, getting punished abroad, 
confiscated, allegations from abroad, damages in blood 
vessels, carbon-dioxide problems, protein problems. 


Researchers in drugs, narcotics and abnormal sexuality, 
transplantation surgeons, transplantations, production of 
artificial limbs, religious research centres, foreign 
cultural organisations, grain storages abroad, teaching 
of foreign languages. 


Prisons, investigating officers, translators, foreign 
currency exchange centres, banks, foreign employment 
offices, wardens, multinational markets, magicians, 
manufacturer of shoes and boots, illegal computer usage. 


Foreign friends, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, inter- 
community relationships, enjoying by watching sex 
performed by others, self-less talks with selfish 
intentions, sadistic pleasures. 


Clandestine intelligence gathering, software, atomic 
reactor, production of gunpowder, anesthetists in 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


operation theatres, moderator with respiratory 
equipments, plane hijack, jail. 


Jupiter 


Bhava Characteristics of Jupiter in different bhavas 


1 


Truthful, honest, own ideas, humble, prestigious, 
confidence, intelligent, calm and accommodative in 
nature. 


Money in cash, treasury, gold articles, honest speech, 
respectable speech, teaching, banks, jewllery shop. 


Documents, stamp papers, cheques, cash related 
negotiations, true messages, legal agreements, legal 
orders and notices. 


Legal assets, educational centres, manufacturmg, large 
companies, real estate owners, land surveyors, 
manufacturing food products, silk, cotton, cattle farm. 


Religious contacts, trust in divinity, children, true 
romance, performers of religious rites, arts of instinct, 
politics, religious leaders, serving in religious acts, deep 
thoughts, having the blessings of God. 


Service in big organisations or banks, presiding over 
feasts and functions, medical treatment, foods with 
cholesterol, vitamin tablets, cholesterol related diseases, 
genetic disorders, getting loans through 
recommendations from statusful persons, bank cashier, 
medical officer, lawyers, service in law departments. 


Calm, responsible and accommodating wife, partner, 
business customers, statusful persons as business 
associates. 

Persons who get punished by law, penalties, losmg gold 
articles, illegal activities, legal threatenings, assets 
getting impounded, acting above law, producing 


damaged articles. 


Kaalchakra—The Planets 39 


9 Higher education, teaching education, professor, finance 
minister of a country, extreme wisdom, changing conditions 
for rehgion, law and morality, religious rites, temple or 
church renovation works, temple trustees, manager of 
temple administration, leader of an embassy, exporters. 


10 Responsible persons in big organisations, service in 
banks, groups for child welfare, prestigious posts, mints, 
service in gold mines, maintenance of national wealth 
and monuments. 


1] Truthful, generous and intelligent fnends, son-in-law, 
daughter-in-law, legally achieving what is wanted, legal 
expectations. 


12 Legal but clandestine activities, legal but unknown 
troubles, getting caught in income tax problems, 
undisclosed assets getting impounded by the 
government, legal imprisonment, secret survey by the 
financial department, printing of counterfeit money. 


Saturn 
Bhava Characteristics of Saturn in different bhavas 


1 Sluggish, cynical, making decisions only after due 
consideration, research skill, dissatisfaction in 
everything, inferiority complex. 


2 Miser, receiving small amounts, slow in speech, telling 
too many lies, keeping cheap articles, stealing by nature. 
3 Frightened, undertaking short tours, writers, letters from 


undisclosed sources, false or forged documents, 
frequently changing one’s appearance, likes to walk. 


4 Unclaimed lands, mines, old buildings, old articles, 
wooden goods, earthenware, oil seeds, black coloured 
articles. 

5 Sexual relationship or romance with persons of lower 


status, unfaithful love, prostitution, saintliness, lazy 
children, menses, obscene or heart-rending acting, 
security in temples and ponds. 


40 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


10 


11 


12 


Inferior professions, works as labourers, lowly jobs in 
the production units for food, dress and medicines, works 
as helpers in the legal profession, skin diseases, receiving 
small loans. 


Immoral, unfaithful, cynical, lying and instable natured 
spouse, partners and persons gwtting associated in the 
profession. 


Disgraced, detached, facing threatenings and 
intimidations, cowardice, forgetfulness, ugly appearnace, 
absconding, fugitive, fearing about death, mental 
imbalance, facing false allegations, litigations, gory 
accidents and brutal activities, involving in the 
restoration of old articles. 


Studying science, continous studies, lack of mental 
disposition befitting one's education, oil wells, research 
in seeds, clinical analysis of blood, urine and stool. 


Peons, progressing upwards from lowly jobs, respectful 
to persons of lower status, seller of old articles, doing 
menial jobs in police, military and corporations. 


Unfaithful, lethargic, having immoral and dishonest 
friends, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law, receiving and 
doing everything through dishonest means, purchasing 
of properties full of problems. 


Clandestine revenge, hoardings, hiding things 
underground, refusing everything, making secret plans, 
involving in adulterations, clandestine, unfitting and 
immoral activities. 


Kaalchakra-—The Planets 41 


Mercury 


Bhava Characteristics of Mercury in different bhavas 


1 


42 


Intelligent, quick understanding and acting accordingly, 
slim and attractive in appearance, capacity to assess the 
circumstances, witty, brisk activities, unstable in nature, 
skills in mathematics, thinking twice before leaping, 
good nervous system, cunningness. 


Witty speech, green coloured gem stones, expensive 
sensitive instruments, double based voice, visible blood 
lines in the eyes, cheques, exchangeable monetary 
instruments, commentaries, orators. 


Writer of stories and articles, document writer, registrars, 
clerks, postmen, communicators, providers of electrical 
connections, messengers, advertisers, unstable in nature, 
tax collectors, proof-readers, brokers. 


Novel products, machineries, computers, calculators, 
printers, sensitive instruments, electric and electronic 
appliances, lodges, spare parts, tiles, lathe workers such 
as fitters and turners, checking staff in transports, spare 
parts assemblers, manufacturers. 


Singers, famous actors, stage speakers, teachers of arts, 
visual artists, sculpturers, teachers of Vedas, performers 
of musical instruments, singers of meaningful poems, 
commission agents. 


Accountants, staff in business premises, issuing loans 
in installments, cash collectors, labour contractors, tax 
collectors, auditors, printing workers, computer 
operators, experts in neuro-sciences, nurses, 
compounders, office clerks. 


Witty, cunning and exploring wife, partners, 
shareholders, arbitrators, business customers, excelling 
in education and knowledge. 


Cheques, documents, proof of assets, problems related 
to origin of assets, disconnections in power and 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


10 


11 


12 


telephones, negotiations, signatures of accountability, 
unsigned letters, mix-up of messages, absent-minded, 
lack of meaningful thoughts, nervous disorders. 


Clerks in research centres, teachers in higher education, 
consultants, lawyers, mathematical wizards, embassy 
staff, agents for exports and imports, telecommunication 
departments, government treasury accountants, statistic 
inspectors, advertisement departments. 


Busmess, sensitive instruments, weighing scales, 
measurement and balance Instruments, pipe lines, rods, 
wiring materials, sellers of green coloured articles, 
stationery stores selling notebooks and calculators, 
computer sellers. 


Witty friends, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, elder brother, 
loves to use sensitive Instruments, loves to read books 
of choice. 


Invention of sensitive instruments through secret 
research, secret notes and accounts, proof of income and 
expenditure, agreements, adulterations, photographs, 
documents. 


Ketu 


Bhava Characteristics of Ketu in different bhavas 


1 


4 


Kaalchakra—The Planets 


Unpredictable i in nafure, unusual in appearance, slim or 
stooping In appearance, crafty and scheming, criminal 
thoughts, over-acidity in the body, greedy. 


Type of speech, that can neither be agreed to or denied, 
amassing wealth through immoral means, problematic 
and crafty speech, dealers in narcotics, gemstones, 
rumour-mongers. 


Forged papers, deliberate propagators of wrong 
messages, criminal litigations, embezzlements, unsigned 
letters, preparing false documents, forged cheques, 
collectors of wrong messages. 


Problematic assets, overtaking assets by cheating, 


10 


11 


44 


producers of spurious, cheap and lesser quality articles, 
producers of narcotics, taking-over possession of 
concealed wealth. 


Magics, conjuring tricks, crafty stories, scheming arts, 
illegal commission agents, agents for prostitution, 
narcotics, commission agents, acting or political 
professions with cheating intentions. 


Taking loans with cheating intentions, criminals, 
narcotics, workers in acid manufacturmg units, illegal 
litigations, crmimal lawyers, wily workers, doctors in 
the field of body acidity. 


Crafty wife, partners, persons who communicate with 
us, customers, crminal group, persons who meet us 
with cheating intentions. 

Getting caught ahd punished in illegal activities, 
punishments, stealing, involving in sabotages, 
blackmailing others, sadistic, using rumours through 
improper means, bending law. 


Criminal Judges, researching for criminal acts, 
investigations, archaeologists, subversive acts abroad, 
trainers for illegal activities, involving in illegal exports 
and imports. 

Involving in illegal activities with prestige and status, 
illegal businesses, achieving fame through illegal means, 
acting illegally for fame, dissatisfaction in everything. 


Fulfilling desires illegally, expectations, crafty friends, 
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, elder brother. 


Secret involvements in illegal and subversive activities, 
secret plans, taking revenge secretly. 


Astrologies of kaalchakra 


Venus 


Bhava Characteristics of Venns in different bhavas 


1 


Beauty, charm, attractive In appearance, winning over 
others in self doings, pretty and good-looking, egotist, 
inclined to beautify oneself, scents, loves to possess gold 
articles, 


Gold articles, wealth through beauty products, 
captivating speech, diamonds, silk products, expensive 
art pieces, wealthy, happy speech, fmanciers in cine 
fields. 


Happy news, contacts, letters, agreements, cheques, 
involving happily in brokerage professions, writer of 
novels, essays and poems, converting imagination skills 
in words, cinema story writer, editor and script writer. 


Palaces, mansions, flower gardens, vegetable gardens, 
producers of fancy and beauty products, glass, 
chinaware, plastic products, cinema producers, building 
and automobile departments, art schools. 


Interested in arts, cinema actor, glamorous acting, 
prostitution, excelling m arts, music, acting and drama, 
charismatic politicians, skillful musicians, orators, 
astrologers, orators. 


Professionals in art fields, tailors, workers in vegetable 

and fruit shops, service in hardware, paints, scents, glass, 
chmaware and plastic fields, silk clothes, weavers, great 

cooks. 


Attractive wife, partners, happy persons, cheerful 
customers, female majority In customers and the persons 
we meet. 


Disgrace through ladies, humiliation, teaching, 
threatening ladies, losmg happiness, suffering and 
ignominy through ladies, sad news from ladies, 
kidnapping ladies. 


Kaalchakra—The Planets 


10 


11 


46 


Research in arts, higher education, transport, function 
halls, extra-marital affairs, foreign ladies, lady teachers. 


Status in artistic field, prestigious professions, film 
director, cinema producers, music instrumental and vocal 
performances, dance halls, cabaret halls, professions in 
alcohol, prostitution and narcotics. 


Happy persons, happy friends, son-in-law, daughter-in- 
law, elder brother, expecting everything happily. 


Secret activities through happy and carefree life, secret 
marriage, secret agreements through ladies, secret plans, 
concealing plans. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


TABLE OF CHARACTERS OF PLANETS (Table 4) 
SCIENTIFIC DATA 
PLANET }| DIAMETER | MASS DENSITY | GRAVITY 
Kms (Earth=1) | (Water =1)] (Earth=1) 


14 Million 330,000 | 
3,476 0.01 


6,794 O11 
1 A2.984 318 
120,536 95.16 
4,880 0.06 
12,104 0.82 


Rotation Rotation Moons 
(Axis) (Orbit) 
25.4 days 


2/32 days 
24.62 hrs 


Temperature 
(Centigrade) 


SUN 


29.53 29.53 days 
686.98 days 


9.93 hrs 11.86 yrs 
10.66hrs | 29.46 yrs 
58.65 days | 87.97 days 


243 days 224.70 days 


Wamiors Fixed Walking 
en Priests Movable | Crawling 
Male Wartiors Movable | Walking 
Female Labourers Movable | Crawling 


Male Priests Common | Walking 
Neither MF _ | Labourers Common _ | Handicapped 
Neither \VV | Businessmen | Common _ ] Flying 
Neither NI/F | Labourers Movable | Walking 
Female Farmers Fixed Walking 


meee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee 


Kaulchakra—The Planets 47 


PLANET LEGS CONTENT [MOLE |SCARS 


MARS 
RAHU 


JUPITE 


4§ 


4 legged 


Multi legged 


4 legged 


Multi legged 


2 legged 
4 legged 
2 legged 


Multi legged 


2 legged 


ae green 
White 

Red 

Black 
Yellow 
Dark blue 


Reddish green 
Creamy white 


Garla 
Diamond 
Bow 
Hexagon 
Winnow 
Octogon 


Core 
Mineral 
Mineral 


Life 
Mineral 
Life 
Mineral 
Core 


Shortest 
Tall 
Tall 


Average 


Mineral 


Temple 
Watery places 
Earth 

Tree holes 
Temple 

Oven 

Bed 

Hide outs 


Watery places 


Centre 
South East 
South 
South West 
North 
West 
North East 
North West 
East 


Forests 
Liquid surface 
Earth 

Slums 

New city 

Old town 
Twin places 
Slums 

Grain fields 


Peacock 
Fox 

Swan 
Goat 
Elephant 
Crow 
Horse 
Lion 
White 
Neckebird 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


PLANET ORGAN STRUCTURE DISEASES 


Head Bones Heat 
Face Blood Cough 
Chest Muscles Blood 
Hands Gas Potson. 
Stomach Flesh Watery 
Thighs Skin Biles 
Back Nerves Nerves 
Legs Enzymes Acidity 
Private parts Segregations Fever 


Krithigai.Uthiram & Uthiradam . 
ne Rohini. Hastham & Thiruvonam 
Aries & Scorpio Mrigaseersha.Chithrai & Avittam 

1* Thiravathirai. Swathi & Sathayam 
Sagittarius & Pisces | Punarpusam. Visakam&Poorattathi 
Capricom & Aquartu4 PoosamAnusham & Uthirattathith1 
Gemini & Virgo Ayilyam. Kettai & Revathi 

—|* Ashwini.Makain & Moolam 
Taurus & Libra Bharani. Pooram & Pooradam 


King Father Metabolism 
Queen Mother Physique 
Soldier Brother Triple 
Foreigner Paternal 

Priest Child i Five 
Servant Enemy Mono 
Minister Uncle Dual 

Spy Maternal 

Artist Spouse * Quadra 


Kaalchakra—The Planets 49 


[inet TRonsrnes [any [Rare 


50 


Dominant *2 


Confused 
Pride*2 
Show 
Calm 
Obedience 
Adjusting 
Cunning 
Attractive 


Big tree 
Creeper 
Grams 
Thomy 
Crops 


Thormy 


‘Collective 


shrubs 
Poisonous 
shrubs 


Erukku 
Purasu 


Karunkali 


Aruhu 
Arasu 
Vanni 
Nayuruvi 
Dharpai 
Aththi 


Sincere 
Unstable 
Opportunist 


Fond of food 


Honour 
Attentive 
Expertise 
Wisdom 
Humble 


Wheat 

Rice 

Red grams 
Black grams 


Bengal grams 


Gingili 
Green grams 


Carbuncle 


Pearl 


Coral 
Sardonyx 
Topaz. 
Sapphire 
Emerald 
Lapis Lazuli 
Diamond 


Horse grams 


Panchaloga 


Tin 
Copper 
Lead 
Gold 
Iron 
Brass 
Steel 
Silver 


Benefic 
Dual 

Malefic 
Malefic 
Benefic 
Malefic 
Dual 

Malefic 
Benefic 


Red lotus 
Jasmine 
Champak 
Shoe flower 
Arabian 
jasmine 
Black lily 
White flower 
(Kanthal) 
Red oleander 


White lotus 


Middle 
Child 
Young 
Old 
Child 
Elder 
Middle 
Eldest 
Young 


Astrologies of kaalchakra 


Notes: 


i) 


Jothida Mannan Prof K.S.Knishnamoorthy has advocated not 
to concern about the Debilitations, Exaltations, Oppositions, 
Neutral details of the planets as they do not work in most of the 
cases, Shri K.Bhaskaran, author of this book further advises to 
exclude the aspects of planets also as they seem to be 
unscientific. 


The nodes Rahu & Ketu do not rule any sign. However they 
would act like Jupiter & Mercury respectively. 

Sun is dominant because it is a leader but Mars is arrogant 
because it is considered as a soldier. 


Please note that the above-mentioned details about the signs 
and planets given in the tables are to be used judiciously based 
only on the questions that are raised and not for all aspects of 
the birth charts in general. 


For further details please refer classical texts. 


Kaalchakra—Th@ lanets 54 


Kaalchakra - The Bhavas 


As was with the planets and the twelve signs of zodiac, the 
propounders of astrology also detailed the attributes and 
portfolios covered under the twelve cusps (bhavas). 


ATTRIBUTES OF THE DIFFERENT BHAVAS 


An illustrative list of the attributes of the different bhavas is 
mentioned hereinbelow: 


Note : Simplest of simple life profile if studied closely would 
reveal that it is truly quite complicated. If one tries to dissect 

the mechanism of an apparently straightforward.event, it will 

be observed that the same is an outcome of multi-step phenomena 
and has dependence on a number of parameters .Likewise. on 

the other hand it, in inn, influencessqsuany other happenines 
factors/events to follow. 


A very valid conclusion may bevdrawn from the foregoing that 
none of the cusps or bhavas acts independently 1.e.in isolation. 
They react on each other, including themselves and yield 
multifarious results. An illustrative list fa provided in the 
following detailing the resultant attributes of theaction of 
different bhavas, one by one, on itself and on the other bhavas. 


52 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Ascendant 


Bhava Attributes of ascendant vis-a-vis allthe cusps 


1 


10 


Self-thoughts, ideas, brisk activities, skills, impulsive 
acts, own acts, exposing power. 


Speech skills, improvement of skills, acceptance of both 
truth and falsehood. 


Knowledge, strength, self motivation, boldness, 
intelligence, mental strength, communications, mental 
affiliation fitting to education, interest, modify oneself, 
self-confidence. 


Manufacture of everything, keenness in education, 
involving in fruits, vegetables and grain fields, farming 
operations, establishing educational institutes and 
libraries. lakes, ponds. 


Respectability, morality, fondness in arts and sports, deep 
thinking, wisdom, involvement in love affairs, 
imaginative skills, stable in nature, masculinity, 
femininity, maturity. 


Successes and failures, health, food, dresses, medicines. 
medical treatment, self efforts, disease. 


Social relationships, social recognitions. legal 
conditions, dependence on others. 


Pains, sufferings. inactiveness. disgrace, bring shame on. 
threatenings. suicides, murders. damages. comatose. 
getting punished. 


Confidence, fame, scholar, leader. research skills, 
friendship with strangers, envoy. research education. 
devout, donor. temple trustees. change of actions. hving 
in new surround tn es. body chanves, obedient to god. 
law and associates. conservative. 


Prestige, status, leadership, prestigious posts, unsatisfied 
mind, responsible consultant. administration skill, top 
officials, great fame. 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 53 


11 


12 


Greed, selfishness, exuberant, happiness, club 
consultant, desires, extremely lucky, successes, 
achievements, joyful, accommodating. 


Secret activities, losing energy and power, absconding, 
self-dedication, investigation, secret troubles, hurdles 
and failures in every effort. 


II Bhava 


Bhava Attributes of IT bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 


54 


Encashing own thoughts, money-making ideas, quick 
functioning of body organs, increasing skills, speaking 
ones mind, independant income, show-off of power 
through money, 


Great orator, increase in money-related activities, 200d 
speech skills, truthful speech, body acceptance. 


Intelligent speech, gains through writing skills, own 
ideas, bold acts, sharp arguments and valiant acts, gainful 
communication, receiving cheques by posts, receiving 
advance amounts for change of places, gams through 
mind-related professions, great inclination towards 
money making, changing colours for the sake of money, 
confidence through money. 


Excessive energy in the body, gains through education, 
fruits, vegetables, grain fields, farms, educational 
institutes, libraries, contracts for lease of lakes, ponds 
and bridges. 


Gains through respectable shares, religious acts, arts. 
sports, deep thoughts and acts, brilliant knowledge, 
music halls, lovers, imaginative skills, stable body 
charm, prostitution by both sexes, religious rites. 


Gains through competition successes, medical 
scholarships, food products, tailoring, rental sources, 
rental agreements, medicines, medical treatment, hard 
labour, distribution of loans, litigations, salaries, profit 
as rental income through house, cooking utensils and 
other articles. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


7 Gains through social relationships, government 
approvals, government subsidies through legal means, 
gains through others’ help, partners, spouse, banks, tax 
evasions. 


8 Gains through bullying and stealing, robbery, profits 
from old articles, making gains from working in dirty 
places, raping, defamation suits, threatenirig, profession 
of hangman, assassination, bribery in accident wards, 
mortuary, commission agents, cheating, magics, illegal 
acts, treasons, will, insurance, frauds. 


9 Confident gains from ancestral properties, getting gold 
equivalent to ones weight through faine, gains through 
honesty, education, executive positions, researches, close 
friendship with strangers, gains as mediators, teaching 
research education, divine duties, good deeds, welfare 
trusts, transplantation of organs, life in foreign countries, 
gains by way of donating despite tax evasions, temple 
assets, law departments, submissive agreements, 
valnable archaeological monuments. ++: 


10 Gains through prestigious positions, status, holding top 
positions, issuing responsible suggestions, 
administration skill, senior executive post and fame. 


11 Gains through greediness, easy. ‘gains, happy romantic 
life, delightful means, club activitigs, gairis from desired 
articles, extremely lucky, successes, achievements, 
making others happy, supportive to friends. 

12 Making gains from secret activities, losing energy or 
body organs, hidden things, given money, saved money, 


hidden cache, clandestine activities, getting back lost 
things, re-joming family after separation. 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 55 


If Bhaya 


Bhava Attributes of II bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 


56 


Recording self thoughts, bold ideas and actions, ears, 
nose, sensory organs of the body, blood vessels, actions 
of the nerve system, body strength, putting into actions 
what are thought, independant thoughts, exposing power. 


Excellent writing skills, writing-related actions, cheques, 
monetary documents, clever writing techniques, writing 
truths, receiving cheques by post, grasping mind. 


News about us being published by the newspapers, 
intelligent writings, letter departments, announcing own 
thoughts, intellectual debates, skillful writing to urge 
bold acts and to explain about mind-related matters, 
receiving transfer orders, perseverance, stable natured, 
self-confidence. 


Decreasing energy in the body, educational certificates, 
business of fruits, vegetables and food grains, farms for 
domestic animals, birds, seeds, trees and saplings for 
business, trading of notes, paper and stationery items 
for educational institutes, newspaper business, trading 
of machinery and spares for cooking ware, furnitures, 
grocery, houses, lands, vehicles, hardware, lakes and 
ponds, brokers, real estate business. 


Equity shares, religious texts, writing about sports, love 
and romance, poetry, novels, essays, politics arts and 
games, actions encouraged by deep thoughts, 
improvement of intelligence, performances at dance 
halls, love letters, imaginative paintings, permanent 
charm, vulgar dancing, announcer of religious rites. 


Success in competition exams, medical tips, performer 
of experiments, seller of food products, medicines and 
dresses, tailors, trader in medical equipments, domestic 
servants, giving loans in lieu of documents, lawyers, 
officers in pay and accounts, collectors of house rents, 
accountants, lease collectors, auctioneers, postmen. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


7 Getting social recognition, government approvals, legal 
government orders, recommendation letters, partnership 
agreements, letters from spouse, documents, ration cards, 
letter correspondence from banks, tax notices. 


8 Overtaking assets through torturing, robbing documents 
and notes, selling old goods, writing vulgar, threatening 
and intimidating letters, mental disorders, death penalty 
order, agreement reached by way of assassination, writers 
in accident wards, inspectors of mortuary, performers 
of post-mortem, anti-corruption department news, 
corruption agents, stealing of documents, false messages, 
change of mind through magics, illegal messages, 
unlawful copier of messages, will, insurance documents, 
forged documents, unexpected mental dilemmas. 


9 Trustworthy agreements, getting famous, money 
exchanges, certificates for higher education, employment 
orders for honourary posts, agreements through research, 
close friendship with strangers, senders of messages, 
research notes, government contacts in the service of 
God, good deeds, negotiations, nationalisation of trust 
organisations, organ transplantations, communications 
with foreign countries, tax accounting in business, temple 
assets given on lease, writers in legal departments, 
mediators, researchers of ancient monuments. 


10 Employment orders for a prestigious post, business 
through status, records for maintaining leadership 
position, responsible suggestions, messages, 
appreciations for administrative skills, taking oath as the 
top executive, advertisement through great fame. 


11 Advance reservations through greed, satisfactory news, 
criticising jolly life, happy chit-chat, getting club 
recognitions or approvals, taking part in desired 
activities, lucky messages, lucky numibers, certificates 
through success and achievement, winning trust by 
making others happy, getting friends as desired. 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 57 


12 Messages through secret acts, agreements for losing 
energy or body organs, losing hidden records, receiving 
document on given money, losing records on saved 
money, totally losing hidden treasures, getting 
informations on clandestine plans, losmg assets, 
permanently losing given things, permanent separation 
of already separated persons. 

IV Bhava. 
Bhavya Attributes of IV bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 Manufacturmg based on own ideas, bold acts, actions 
of producing organs in the body such as heart, chest, 
lungs and kidney, excessive productions in the body, 
doing what is planned, mdependant purchases, 
improving ones Own energy and power. 


2 Purchasing gold, expensive and useful articles, building 
expensive houses, owning everything, purchasing useful 
thmgs more than what is necessary, buymg everything 
to keep im store. 

3 News of our change of residence being published in the 
papers, publishing intelligent books, production 
departments, leaving native place, brilliant education, 
actions based on education, messages on production, stay 
on transfer orders, exposing mind related actions, 
confidence in production improvement. 


4 Excessive energy production in the body, education 
based actions, production of fruits, vegetables and food 
grains, farms for domestic animals, birds, seeds, trees 
and saplings for production, production of notes, paper 
and stationery items for educational institutes and 
newspaper, production of machinery and spares for 
cooking ware, furnitures, grocery, houses, lands, 
vehicles, hardware, lakes and ponds, contractor for 
buildings, bridges, and roads. 


58 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


5 Company shares, religious texts, trainers in sports, love 
and romance, poetry, novels, essays, politics, arts and 
games, actions encouraged by deep thoughts, teacher of 
intelligence, performances at dance halls, register offices 
for love marriages, producer of imaginative pamtings, 
prostitution dens, places for religious rites. 


6 Centre for competition exams, medical camps, 
laboratories, production of food items, dresses, 
medicines and medical appliances, tailoring, adopting 
domestic servant, loans on immovable assets, courts of 
law, accountants, tenants, investors, lodges, buyers on 
auctions, milkmen. 


7 Member of society, government staff quarters, 
government donated and legally obtained lands, joining 
with guests and partners, wife staying in joint family, 
inclusion as member in the ration card, buying assets 
through banks. 


8 Usurping assets through torturing, problematic assets, 
robbery, reproduction of old articles, living in ugly 
looking dilapidated buildings and dirty places, damaged 
or repaired articles, showing aggressions, hanging places 
in the prisons, operation theatres, slaughter houses, clerks 
in accident wings, managers of mortuary, graveyard 
workers, stealing other's belongings, anti-corruption 
departments, false assets, illegal encroachments, 
providers of document copies illegally, assets through 
will, vehicle Insurances, spurious products. 


9 Contract through assets, getting famous through 
education, exchange of goods, teachers of higher 
education, head-master posts, production of new articles 
through research, intimate relationships with strangers, 
importers, research centres, constructions of temples 
through government aid, trusts formed by the 
government, production of organs to be transplanted, 
foreign aids, production taxes, trust maintaining temple 
properties, clerk in courts, village administration boards, 
protector of archaeological monuments. 


Kaalchakra— The Bh avas 59 


10 


11 


12 


Prestigious post as Zamindar or landlord, owners of 
industries, responsibte officers of government records, 
responsibte positions, efficient officers, person who 
makes officers taking oath of office for higher posts, 
persons with name and fame. 


Amassing assets greedily, building expensive villas and 
halls, buildings built through associations, buying desired 
things, tucky house, fucky objects, winning prizes 
through successes, great achievement in production, 
changing into a new residence, visit of desired friends 
to our house. 


Ptans for secret acts, fosing energy or numbness of body 
organs, hidden things, receiving given things, things 
being saved, getting hidden treasures, secret ptaces for 
ctandestine acts, stabilizing assets, permanent re-union 
of already separated person. 


V Bhava 


Bhava Attributes of V bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 


60 


Own, deep thoughts, production of living things, excellent 
achievements in artistic fieids, heart, chest, tungs and 
production of btood ceffs in the body, increase in 
immunity powers, improvement of skill of imagination, 
independant thoughts. 


Purchase of expensive things of artistic value, useful 
musical instruments, artistic gotd artictes, receiving 
commission amounts, musicat records, keeping 
everything in an artistic taste, fearning of useful arts more 
than what is required, receiving everything in 
imagination. 

News of our artistic involvement being published in the 
papers, publishing art books, advertisement departments, 
brilliant artistic education, actions based on artistic fietds, 
agreements on artistic fields, changes in transfer orders, 
exposing mind retated actions on artistic fietds, 
confidence in production improvement of childbirth. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Excessive immunity power production in the body, 
education based artistic actions, production of nutritious 
fruits, vegetables and food grams, farms for domestic 
animals, birds, seeds, trees and saplings for production, 
production of musical instruments, newspaper editors, 
producers of cosmetics and beauty products, cinema 
producers, organiser of dance and music programmes. 


Share brokers, preachers of religious texts, lovers of 
sports, deep involvement in love affairs, poets, story 
writers, writers of essays on artistic fields, political 
inclinations, trainers in art fields, sport centres, teachers 
of deep thoughts and wisdom, auditoriums, register 
offices for love marriages, inventors of imaginary artifacts 
of artistic value, prostitution dens, halls for vulgar 
dancing, places for performing religious rites. 


Centres for artistic competition exams, obstetricians, 
examiner of blood cells, nurses, production of food items 
for feasts, natural medicines, tester of medicines, service 
in artistic fields, law courts, commission agent, tenants, 
investors for earning commission, service in lodges and 
cinema theatres. 


Good relationships with members of society, government 
quarters for artistes, government donated musical 
instruments, guest houses, joining with partners, marrying 
lover, public welfare centres. 


Sadistic rapes, suffering disgrace and ignominy, getting 
caught and cheated, repairing old musical mstruments, 
vulgar acting, living m pitiable conditions, receiving 
punishments. 


Contract through arts, getting famous through artistic 
education, exchange of arts, teachers of music, drama 
etc., head-master posts, new changes in the fields of music 
and drama through research, intimate relationships with 
strangers, importers of art materials, research centres for 
arts, religious texts and astrology, prayers in temples 
through government aid, trusts overtaken by the 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 61 


10 


11 


12 


government, production of replacement things, foreign 
agreements, temple taxes, trust maintaining temples, 
judges in courts, members of village administration 
board, protectors of archaeological sculptures. 


Prestigious post as great artiste, mdustries for art 
materials, responsible officers of government temples, 
cushy jobs, efficient and artistic officers, person who 
makes national leaders taking oath of office, astrologers, 
persons with name and fame. 


Learning arts greedily, building pleasure halls, branches 
for associations, joint efforts through clubs or 
associations, friendships with desired women, lucky 
agreements, lucky chances, winning prizes through 
lottery, achievement in production of living objects, 
ceremony on girl attaining puberty, naming ceremony 
for newbom child, spending happy moments with desired 
friends. 


Plans for secret love, losing love or lack of romantic 
sense, one-way love, recovering lost energy, protecting 
children, secret child-birth, secret places for clandestine 
love affairs, creating child, reconciliation with the 
separated person. 


VI Bhava 


Bhava Attributes of VI bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 


62 


Own ideas, disease- ridden body, successful actions, 
functions of body organs such as stomach, intestines and 
digestive organs, large reduction of immune power of 
body, decrease in physical actions, lack of independant 
functiomng, improvement of work efficiency. 


Successful and profitable speech, good digestive power. 
buying gold articles by loans, receiving money as loans, 
purchasing expensive things, permanent nature of loans, 
hard work more than what is required. 


News of our successes being published in the papers, 
publishing business related books, advertisement 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


departments, actions through own capacity, agreements 
on employments, eniployment and transfer orders, mind- 
related actions, confidence of production improvement 
in service, jobs in writing, communications, tenders, 
clerical jobs. 


Excessive immunity power production in the body, 
service in house, land, vehicle, buildings and big 
organisations, producers of food and eatables, 
maintenance of farms for domestic animals, birds, seeds, 
trees and saplings, labour on daily wages, school teachers, 
producers of domestic appliances and furniture, 
organisers of dance and music programmes. 


Work as share brokers, preachers of religious texts, 
workers in the manufacture of sports goods, brokers for 
women, proof-readers for writings about stories, poems, 
art essays, politics etc., working in sports centres, 
auditoriums, register offices for love marriages, 
prostitution dens, halls for vulgar dancing, bars and place 
for performing religious rites. 


Service in competition centres, hospitals, nurses, 
production of food and medicines, tailors, weavers, 
service in medical professions, law courts, lodges. 


Service in welfare centres, stooge for government 
officials, marriage brokers, labour contractors, worker 
in public and labour welfare centres. 


Hard labour, disgraceful jobs, jobs without labour 
welfare, repairing of old articles, lowly jobs, jobs in 
pitiable surroundings, excessive working load, slavery. 


Contracts in harbours, offices which decide on transfers, 
teachers on education, service in research centres and 
importing offices, government job as temple priests, trust 
offices, foreign agreement offices, collectors of temple 
taxes, trusts for the maintenance of temples, courts, 
village administration board offices, protection of 
archaeological sculptures. 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 63 


10 


11 


Permanent job, cushy jobs, efficient officers, prestigions 
professions with name and fame, promotions. 


Struggles in everything but successful through greedy 
means, always staying in pleasure houses, service in 
associations, successful in litigations through clubs, 
retaining desired servants, lucky chances, lucky 
employment opportunities, proving excellency in job, 
accurate diagnosis of a disease, eating desired food items. 


Obtaining loans through secret plans, repayment of loans 
through fresh loans, getting back lost things, getting back 
what is invested, getting medical treatinents in hospital, 
separated person suing us again, equality of income and 
expenditure, losing body functions through ill-health. 


VII Bhava 


Bhava Attributes of VH bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 


64 


Combined ideas, submissive, kidney, uterus and 
abdomen, successful partnership efforts, weakness due 
to excessive loss of immunity, Increase in opposition, 
lack of independant actions, facing competitions, well 
acquainted persous. 


Money through help from others, profitable negotiations 
with bank, lack of digestive power, purchasing of gold 
articles through help from others, borrowing money from 
others, receiving expensive articles as donations, doing 
everything as help, hardworking for others more than 
what is required, receiving anything as help from others, 
staying as one of the members of the family. 


News of us being published in the papers by help from 
others, publishing books on public service, advertisers, 
Spending energy for others, agreements on meetings, 
recommendation letters, news of transfer orders, actions 
based on others’ opiions, registrars, confidence through 
others help, petitioners, communication department, 
submitting tenders, tenant as neighbour, person living in 
next street. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


4 Relatives, persons hving m the same compound, person 
hving in the opposite house, our own home, land, vehicle 
and building, relative who maintains large organisations. 


5 Lovers, artists, art painters, singers, astrologers, religious 
heads, religious workers, priests, prostitutes, pimps, 
ascetics. 


6 Bank officials, financiers, servants, separated friends, 
medical patients, doctors, cooks, lawyers, contagious 
diseases. 


7 Strangers, opposite gender, social workers, stooges for 
government officials, persons working for public welfare, 
marriage brokers, contractors, workers for improvement 
of public amenities, partner, persons we encounter on 


business. 

8 Cheating persons, opponents, murderers, robbers, insurance 
officials, middlemen for corruption, traitors, cunning 
persons, criminals, terrorists, those who insult us. 

9 Leaders, foreigners, exporters, strangers, judges, priests, 


trustees, teachers, persons lacking social recognition. 


10 Colleagues, those who admire us, executive officers, 
those who are in power, prestigious persons, questioners 
with authority, co-workers, trade union leaders, those who 
help us through business, business customer, dealers. 


11 Persons we are fond of, fmends, honest persons, those 
who care about us, those who have sexual relationships 
with us, elders, close friends, those who make us happy, 
those who make agreements with us legally, getting 
recognition. 


12 Secret planners, those who recover loans, thieves, those 
who trouble us, those who have secret contacts, those 
who help us by making investments, those who create 
losses for us, those who know our secrets, those who 
carry-out raids, those who mtimidate us. 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 65 


VII Bhava 


Bhava Attributes of VIET bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 


66 


Losing self-thoughts, body functions getting affected, 
wastage of produced energy, actions with struggles, 
blockages of body functioning, lack of body acceptance, 
reduction in efficiency, lack of independant actions, 
problems in our normal activities, pains and sufferings, 
body injuries, remorseful, sorrowful, rueful, 
disappointments. 


Speech full of troubles and hurdles, allergy, giving away 
gold articles, and donations unexpectedly, gifting 
expensive things, giving away more than ones capacity. 


Damaging news about us being published in the papers, 
publishing books of criminal, murder and robbery 
subjects, slanderer, mathematical mistakes, forgetfulness, 
things getting misplaced, lack of performance to capacity, 
wear and tear of body organs, break in job agreements, 
hurdles in appointment orders, cancellation of transfer 
orders, problems in doing mind-related activities, black 
marks in service, problems in the job of production 
improvement, problems in the jobs of writings, 
communications, tenders and clerical works. 


Production organs m the body getting damaged, involved 
in accidents, injuries, problems or accidents in houses, 
lands, vehicles, buildings and large organisations, food 
items getting spoilt, unexpected deaths of domestic 
animals and birds, hurdles in education, house-hold 
appliances getting mto repairs, furnitures getting broken. 


Accidents in music and dance programme stages, toys 
turning into bizarre dangers, being raped, disgrace, 
humiliation, brought to disrepute through publishing of 
poems, stories, art essays, politics etc., getting punished 
in sports and games, facing disgrace in auditoriums, 
disgraced through love marriage, ordeals in prostitution 
dens, wild and crazy acts in lewd dance halls, quarrels in 
booze bars, discrediting the places of religious rites. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


10 


11 


12 


Problems in competition exam centres, increasing of 
agony of disease through medical treatment, bungling 
acts of nurses, wrong results of medicines, allergy through 
food, acidic medicines and dresses, accidents in the 
production of medicines, mistakes in medical procedures, 
quarrels in courts, allegations in lodges. 


Immoral activities in social service centres, antagonising 
government officials, corruptions in public welfare 
centres, disappointments in marriages, partnership 
cheatings, discredit and disgrace through spouse and 
enemies, murder threats. 


Bad deaths, getting murdered, sufferings, quarrels, pains 
and torments, injuries, illegal acts, death sentences, 
carrying out revengeful acts, seizures, mad acts, 
incompetent actions. 


Problems in labour contracts, hurdles in job changes, 

hurdles inf teaching jobs, fire accidents in research centres, 
problems faced by importers, cancellation of job as priest 

by government, closure of trust offices, cancellation of 
foreign collaboration offices, frauds in the collection of 
temple taxes, sabofages in trusts for the maintenance of 
temples, punishments meted out by the courts, village 

administration boards getting divided, damages in 

archaeological offices. 


Allegations regarding job confirmation, corruptions in 
cushy jobs, fraudulent acts of efficient officers, losing 
name, fame and prestige, hurdles in promotions in job. 


Greedy struggles in everything, sufferings in pleasure 
houses, swindles in clubs, no-confidence motions through 
clubs, problems in desired objects, lucky chances tuming 
into unlucky, unlucky job opportunities, testing times in 
service, diagnosis of vitamin deficiency, hatred towards 
desired thmgs. 


Problems through secret plans, disappointments, assets 
petting confiscated, seizure, getting cheated, unable to 
get back investinents, coma stage in hospital, separated 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas. = 


person troubling us again, losses in income and 
expenditure. 


IX Bhayvya 
Bhava Attributes of IX bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 Research with own thoughts, stable actions, produced 
energy functioning differently, well educated, calm 
activities, Increase in body functions, good acceptance 
by the body, improvement of skills, independant 
activities, some changes in efficiency, swellings, obesity, 
changes in body appearance, peacefulness, sleep, ideas. 


2 Calm and compliant speech, getting ancestral gold 
articles, receiving money and expensive gifts as 
donations, getting anything as donation. 


3 Excessive thmking beyond one's capacity, good news 
about us being published in the newspapers, publishing 
books on negotiations, communications, village 
administration boards, research and education subjects, 
person who spreads the news, mathematical 
involvements, deep memory power, exchange of assets, 
acts within capacity, growth of body organs. 


4 Learning teacher's education, ancestral properties, 
foreign assets, Imported products, donated properties, 
setting-up schools and colleges, temple properties, 
vehicle maintenance departments, production 
departments, storages for grains, research centres, 
protector of temple assets. 


5 Doing divine acts, pilgrimages, spendmg happy moments 
with strangers, religious beliefs, clairvoyant persons, 
getting cured from diseases through the grace of God, 
divine child. 

6 Supervisor for competition exams, increase in hereditary 
diseases, nurses, medical examinations, unusual results 
of medicines, over intake of foods, allergy through 
relationship with strangers, problems by way of 
involvement in acidic medicines, joint effort in medical 


68 A Strologics of kaalchakra 


10 


11 


research, immoral relations in research centres, joint 
agreements in national parliaments, job given to legal 
heir, allegations in staying places, getting separated from 
second wife or illegal affairs. 


Moral acts in social service centres, getting acquainted 
to government officials, government approved social 
service centres, second marriage, second partner, 
adultery with opposite sex, sexual relationship with 
younger sister of wife. 


Murder threats through immoral relationships, fraudulent 
acts in ancestral properties, mistakes in research centres, 
malfunctioning in rockets sent to space, hurdles in higher 
education, troubles fron) foreign countries, failures in 
agreements, hurdles in foreign journeys, hurdles in 
research efforts. 


To become a national leader, excellent investigators, 
leading persons, those who are in prestigious posts, 
ambassadors, those who make agreements, judges, 
government financial departments, foreign embassies, 
religious departments. 


Transport departments, communication, professor, 
embassy, exports and imports, harbour, electricity, water 
pipes, oil wells, mines, department which decides on 
transfer orders, teaching job, service m research centres 
and import offices, job as a temple priest through 
government, service in trust offices, foreign agreements, 
collection of temple taxes, offices for temple 
maintenance, courts, village administration offices, 
archaeological departments. 


Diploma courses, cushy and prestigious jobs, success in 
research attempts, attaining name, fame and prestige, 
taking oath of office, successful in every effort through 
greed, always in a jolly mood, good relationships within 
clubs, successful agreements throngh clubs, having 
relationships with desired strangers, lucky chances, lucky 
Opportunities for agreements, achievement in research 


Kaalchakra—T. he Bhavas 69 


12 


Bhava 


70 


efforts, identifying correct methods, likes to consume 
fatty food items. 


Losses through secret contacts, financial constraints, 
spending on temple renovations, incapable of getting 
back the investments, discovery of hidden messages, 
financial problems through new business, learning 
research education. 


X Bhava 
Attributes ofX bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


Business based on own ideas, excessive skill of action, 
increase in produced energy, business magnate, 
prestigious acts, troubles in body functioning, body 
allergy on certain food items, improving on self-power, 
independent actions, new changes in working methods. 


Prestigious speech, professions through speech, business 
of ancestral gold or expensive articles, financial 
business, getting everything through business. 


Business based on own iieas formed beyond one's 
natural capacity, news of us being an industrialist getting 
published in the newspapers, profession as a broker, 
communication departments, profession on lease 
agreements, publisher, sender of messages, printer, 
writer, bill collector, accountant, workers in electricity 
departments, plumbers, business based on deep memory 
power, venders, assistants. 


Manufacturers, growth of body organs, agriculturists, 
building workers, industrial workers, tree climbers, 
carpenters, vehicle maintenance staff, cleaners, workers 
in power generation umts and water tanks, fertilizer 
units, boilers, grain fields, farms, orchards, storage 
yards. 


Professional performers of religious rituals, organisers 
of pilgrim tours, pimps, involving in divine duties, being 
a yogi, prophets, religious preacher, workers in art fields, 
actors, singers, poets, artists, astrologers, musical 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


wizards, obstetricians, producers of vitamin medicines. 


6 Service in competition exam centres, doctors, nurses, 
medical examinations, medicinal preparations, 
production of food items and dresses, farms for domestic 
animals and poultries, hotel workers, lawyers, 
fmanciers, daily labours. 


7 Job in public welfare centres, marriage brokers, 
partnership business, service in national welfare, 
speakers in clubs and associations, labour contractor. 


8 Crimmal profession, business on old and used articles, 
renewing old articles, profession in rapes, stealing, 
robbery and assassinations. 


9 Service in social service centre, those who make- 
agreements with government officials, offices of public 
welfare departments, marriage register offices, export 
business, professors, work in research centres,, 
production of space rockets, teachers of higher 
education, service m foreign embassies, those who make 
agreements, organisers for foreign jobs, to become a 
national leader, researchers, leaders, those who are in 
prestigious posts, ambassadors, judges, government 
legal departments, religious endowment boards, 
transport departments, communication, harbours, 
electricity, water pipes, oil wells, mines, department for 
transfer orders, teaching job, service m research centres, 
importing offices, job as a priest through government, 
service in truS$t offices, job in foreign agreement offices, 
collector of temple tax, jobs in trusts for temple 
maintenance, courts, village admmistration boards, jobs 
in offices for maimtenance of ancient sculptures. 


10 Cushy and prestigious jobs, jobs with name, fame and 
prestige, service in customs, income tax and sales tax 
departments. 

11 Jobs in clubs, those who make agreements through 
clubs, involving in desired business, lucky opportunities 
in business and business agreements, achievements in 

Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 71 


12 


business, enriching business standards. 

Business through secret contacts, domg two different 

businesses, spending money for business, making 

business investments, doing business on hidden matters, 
secret involvement through new business, research- 

oriented business. 


XI Bhava 


Bhava Attributes of XI bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 


1 


72 


Thinking more about self, excessive vitamm presence 
in the body, increase in greediness, self-praise, happy 
involvements, excellent body functioning, enjoying food 
tastes, selfish, mdependant ideas, new changes in own 
actions, good imagination skills. 


Happy speech, profit through speech, getting gold 
articles as desired, making profits through friends, son- 
in-law and daughter-in-law, getting expensive articles, 
changing anything into self-favourable. 


Increase in body energy, auspicious news about us 
getting published in the newspapers, entering into 
agreements, involvement in communications, writing 
books, receiving messages, verifying accounts, writing, 
improving Memory power, responsibility for sales 
contracts. 


Purchasing desired articles, problematic assets, vehicle 
getting into repairs, appliances getting damaged. 
Happy relationships, sexual relationship with desired 
person, mutual trust, peace agreements, inclined towards 
arts. 


Success in every venture, vitamin-related diseases, 
joining in a desired job, identifying a disease in such a 
job, successful opportunifies. 

Selecting a life partner of choice, moving with the 

general public in a loving attitude, pourmg love on 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


others, likes to meet desired persons. 


8 Facmg problems in desired things, tensions, vitamin 
related troubles, dissatisfactions, impulsive, facing 
dilemmas. 


9 Contacts with social service organisations, contacts with 
high officials, involving oneself happily in public 
welfare and service centres, polygamy, foreign travel 
as desired, higher education as desired, involving in 
research activities, foreign contacts, involvement in 
agreements. 


10 Cushy and prestigious posts, jobs with name, fame and 
prestige, doing desired jobs. 

11 President in a club, those who make agreements through 
clubs, lucky chances, lucky opportunities for 
agreements, achievements, enriching new methods, 
clandestine involvements. 


12 Happimess through secret contacts, making investments 
as desired, explaining about hidden matters, secret 
involvements through friends, successes through 


research. 
XII Bhava 
Bhava Attributes of XT bhava vis-a-vis all the cusps 
1 Masochist, losing energy in the body, increase in 


complex of inferiarity, low self-estimation, unsatisfied 
involvements, hurdles in body functioning, food allergy, 
unselfishness, hurdles in one's activities, losing skill 
involving imagination. 

2 Getting back what is given, eye defects, making 
investments in gold articles, digestion related diseases, 
secret monetary income. 


3 Losing energy, bad news about us getting published in 
the newspapers, breaks in agreements, hurdles in 
communication, book sales, blockage of news, mistakes 
in accounts, losing memory power, selling things. 


Kaalchakra—The Bhavas 73 


10 


Il 


12 


Making investments in desired articles, benefits through 
automobiles, hiding things. 


Break in happy relationships, sexual relationships with 
persons we dislike, hurdles in mutual trust, breaks m 
agreements, losses in artistic fields. 

Success through secret nieans, losing consciousness 
through allergic food intake, getting transferred m job 
as desired, servant leaving us, inability to identify 
diseases, successful chances but with loss potentials. 


Choosing a foreigner as life partner, living separately 
from general public, extreme dislike of others, 
separation from opposite sex. 


_ Facing problems, losses and shameful posifions in every 


activity, comatose, things getting confiscated, impulsive 
running away from hometown, dilemmas, suffering 
losses. 


Spending money on social service causes, secret 
contacts with high officials, secret Involvements of 
public welfare centres, sécret marriages with many 
women, travels abroad, hurdles in higher education and 
research education, secret foreign contacts, 
involvements in secret agreements. 


Responsible posts of secrecy, jobs with overwork, 
undertaking dual natured jobs. 


Secret activities of clubs, breaks in agreements through 
clubs, hurdles in lucky opportunities, cancellation of 
lucky agreements, failures in achievement attempts, 
concealment of new methods. 


Losses through secret contacts, invested money, given 
money, inability to get back binami properties, 
concealing already hidden matters, strengthening of 
secret involvements, doing continuous research 
activities. 


Aries 


General Nature of the sign Aries 


There is a set of a few karakas (significations) of Aries/Mesham: 
It is a Fiery, Movable sign ruled by Mars. Barren, Four legged, 
Singular, Masculine, Violent, Long-ascension, Soft-natured 
animal, Lane, Ruined Palace, Early mornings, Compound of 
houses, The front part of a street, The Mountains, Area with 
lesser population, Dwellings of thieves and criminals, Low lying 
areas, Industrial area, Police quarters, Eastern direction, Red in 
colour, Forests, Represents the month of “Chithirai” in the Tamil 
years or the “Chaithra” of the Saka years. 


The significations may be categorised into (i) ascendant related 
and (ii) independant. 


(a) Itis a Fiery sign :Short temper, Anger, Violence, Never 
respecting others, hyper-thermal in the body-nature. 

(b) Itis a Movable Sign :Developing nature of either good 
or bad qualities. 


(c) The Lord of Aries is Mars : Rough in appearance and 
the structure of body. 


(d) Itis the First sign of Kaalchakra :Bold and courageous 
in activities, Leadership, Treating others as slaves or 
forcing others to stick to his commands or words. 


Arles 75 


In the same manner, the remaining significations could also be 
studied. 


The sign Aries contains these three stars leading to the following 
body natures : 


Ashwini :OQwned by Ketu (Acidity and Hyper-thermal). 
Bharani : Owned by Venus (Sugar and Hyper-thermal). 
Krithigai :Qwned by Sun (Calcium and Hyper-thermal) 


Mars, the lord of Aries is also the owner of Vrischiga/Scorpio, 
the 8th house to the Aries. Hence, the Bhava Karakas (House 
significations) of the houses 1 & 8 of the planet Mars as in 
Chapter III, Part A would combine to form the general nature 
and appearance of the Aries-ascendant borns. 


I House significations of Mars: 


Bold and courageous, Short-tenipered, Selfishness, Rough in 
appearance, Disregarding others, Assertive, Self-pride, Violent 
and Immoral. 


VIII House significations of Mars: 


Quarrelsome, Faith in terrorism, Struggles, Riots, False 
allegations, Police and military actions, Accidents, Loss of 
chastity, Murders, Robbery, Suicide army, Abduction of other's 
properties and belongings, Cheatings etc. 


Refer to the Karakas of I & VIII house that are related/ 
dependant to Asc as in Chapter IV, Part A. 


I House sigiifications in the I house: 
Self-thought, Active, Capacity fo act independantly, Show of 
strength. 

VIII House significations in the I house: 


Loss of self-thoughts; Inactive, Loss of.energy, Struggles in acts, 
Lameness of the body, Allergic, Difficulties in works, Pain and 
stress, Dejections, Disappointments etc. 


76 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Note 1; The readers may raise a question here. In the I house 
significations, it has been mentioned as active whereas in the 
VIII house significations it has been mentioned as inactive in 
nature. Does it mean that the person would remain inactive in 
the mornings and would be active in the nights? No! It could 
not be so! A mixture of sudden laziness and activeness would 
form the character of Aries-borns. This mixture could not be 
comparable to a mechanical joint of a nut and bolt but would be 
similar to a synergic compound. 


Note 2: There are 6000 million people in our globe, the Earth. 
Does it mean that the characters of all the possible 500 million 
Aries-borns would remain as one and the same? It could not be 
rational; Hence, to differentiate, our ancient astrologers insisted 
to look for the star in which the Asc has actually fallen. This is 
what we call as "Stellar astrology". We have got three stars in 
Aries — Ashwini, Bharani and the first quarter of Krithigai owned 
respectively by the planets KETU, VENUS and the SUN. 


If the Lagna/Ascendant of Aries-borns falls in the star of - 


(i) Ash wini, owned by Ketu, the person would be a criminal 
in nature 
(ii) Bharani, owned by Venus, the person would be a 
Sex-maniac 


(iii) Krithigai, owned by Sun, the person will carry 
self-pride. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF ARIES 


General significations: Fluctuations in body structure, Character 
that could not be easily estimated by others, Criminal and greedy 
in nature, Lean in appearance, Acidity in the body. 


1. KETU does not own any sign of Zodiac. According to Prof. 
KS. Krishnamoorthy, KETU is like MERCURY and RAHU is 
like JUPITER. Mercury is the lord of GEMINI, the III house 
and VIRGO, the VI house to Aries. So, in the cases of 
ASHWINI-ARIES ascendant-births, in addition to t..<planetary 


Aries 7 


significations of Ketu for ASC, i.e., unpredictable in nature, 
unusual in appearance, slim or stooping in appearance, crafty 
and scheming, criminal thoughts, over-acidity in the body, greedy 
etc, the significations of houses 1, 3, 6 & 8 would combine to 
determine the character. (Significations of 1 & 8 are already 
given in the previous paragraphs) 


Il] House significations meant for I house: 


Written self-thoughts, Courageous thoughts, Active sensory 
organs, Nerves and Blood vessels. Doing things as per self- 
desires, Independant thoughts, Tendency to show the strength. 


VI House significations meant for I house: 


Self-thoughts, Disease that would lead to inactiveness, Disease- 
borne body, Successful actions, Active digestive organs, Lack 
of immi 1ity, Developing the skills and workmanship etc., the 
combination of MARS and KETU denotes criminal and 
vindictive attitude. 


2. VENUS is the lord of TAURUS and LIBRA, the IT and the 
VII houses to Aries. Hence, for BHARANI-MESHA ascendant- 
births, houses 1, 2,7 & 8 would combine together to form the 
character. 


ASC-related (Planetary) significations of VENUS: Beautiful 
structure and handsome in appearance, Attracting others through 
activeness, Self-pride, Fond of cosmetics and ornaments. 


II House significations meant for I house: 


Money making through self-thoughts. Materialistic intentions, 
Active, Ability to express the thoughts, Show of status through 
money. 


VII House significations meant for I house: 


Team spirit, Listening to others, Diseases in Kidney, Uterus, 
Stomach, Successful team ventures, Increasing enmifies, 
‘Dependence, Weakness due to lack of immunity. The 
combination of MARS and VENUS denotes excessive interests 
in sexual affairs. 


78 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


3. SUN is the lord of LEO, the V house to Aries. Hence for 
KRITHIKAI-MESHA ascendant-births, houses 1, 5 & 8 would 
combine to form the character. 


Planetary significations of SUN: Majestic in appearance and 
structure, Powerful bone-structure, Honesty, Leadership, Self- 
esteem, Authority and power. 


V House significations for I house: 


Independant deep thoughts, Production of poultries, {nterest in 

politics, Inclination towards Arts and Music, Active heart, Lungs 
and high count of blood cells, Power of Immunity, Imagination 

skills, independant thoughts etc., the combination of MARS and 

SUN indicate power, authority and ability to command. 


Note 3: Now, as per the above stellar classifications, we could 
classify the births of probable 500 million births in the sign 
Aries into three; the probable 220 million in the Ketu Star, the 
220 million in the Venus star and the 60 million in the Sun Star. 
But still, we need a better tool to proceed further in classification. 


1. The Traditional astrologers use the “NAVAMSA CHARTS" 
by classifying the births of the same star into 4 equal quarters, 
i.e., the “Padas”. Thus there could be 9 parts in each sign. 
According to this, there could be 50 Million births in a single 
quarter. 


2. Instead of dividing the star (The DASA) into four, there is 
another way of classification, i.e., identifymg the 9 Bhukthis 
(The Kaalamsas). This concept was initially popularized by 
Meena (Shri. R. Gopalakrishna Rao) in his article, "The truth 
about Amsa Divisions" in the monthly journal “Astrological 
Magazine" Volume 58, in June 1969. Later, Jothida Mannan, 
Shri. K.S. Krishnamoorthy has familiarized this concept in* 
identifying the Ascendant and the other 11 cuspal points by using 
Placidius System. The advantage in this system remains in its 
scope of extension, by identifying the Antharaas and 
Sookshamas. Hence the 729 divisions of a single star through 9 
Bhukthies (Kaalamsas) or (Subs as called by Prof. Shri. K.S.K) 
and further through 9 Antharaas (Subsubs) and in fr? throuch 
the 9 Sookshamas (Subsubsubs) enable us to marl: a set of 3 


ee eee eee = a Os NS 


lakh births from the probable 220 million births in the same 
star. This is known as “KP SYSTEM" in Astrology. 


3. Shri. K. Baskaran, Author of this book, has propounded a 
theory of "Cuspal Interlinks" by using the "Kaalamsas" . Through 
cuspal interlinks, we can get 479,001,600 divisions of an 
ascendant so that we can exactly find the uniqueness of each 
and every horoscope. For further details kindly refer the book, 
"Principles of Cuspal Interlhnks". But whatever be the method 
of classification, we should not bypass or overlook the true 
significations of a SIGN/RAS!I in predictions. 


4. In presenting the following details , it 1s assumed that the cuspal 
points fall in consecutive houses. Please see notes at the end of 
this chapter for other cases. 


There are certain significations that are meant for ASC but 
remain in he other {1 houses. Let us start studying them. 


II House : Taurus 


Speech is a signification of the If House that is meant only for 
supplementing the Asc. Taurus/Rishaba is the second sign to 
Aries/Mesha. It is a fixed sign. Hence the Artes asc borns will! 
stick to their words. Since Taurus is an earthy sign, Artes asc 
borns will maintain intimacy in conversations. They are usually 
fond of natural foods like vegetables and fruits. 


Taurus is ruled by Venus. Hence the Aries asc borns will 
maintain love, affection and sweetness in conversations. They 
will have beautiful eyes and lips. 


Aries is ruled by Mars and Taurus 1s ruled by Venus. The 
combined significations of Mars and Venus are: Vehicles, 
Opposite sex , Sexual interests, Glasswares, Plastic goods, Drugs 
etc. Hence, the Aries asc borns would like mostly to converse 
on these subjects; to be precise, Aries asc borns are better in 
delivering sexy jokes. 


According to the starlord/sublord of the beginning point of the 
II cusp, a detailed nature of speech and other characters could 
be predicted. 


80 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


it! House : Gemini 


Il! house supplements the Ascendant with the significations such 
as "Courage". Since Gemini, the III sign to Aries is ruled by 
Mercury, the Aries asc borns would lack in mental stability. 


Since Gemini is an airy sign, the Aries asc borns tend to disclose 
confidential matters. They would be fond of undertaking short- 
journeys as Gemini is a Commion sign. 


IV House : Cancer 


Aries asc borns are educated since their fourth sign, Cancer is 
a watery and a movable sign. They never hesitate to share their 
knowledge with others. They like fo live in places which are 
cool in climate. 


Since Cancer is ruled by Moon, Aries asc borns would like to 
gather knowledge in Mathematics and difficult & complex 
subjects. 


V House : Leo 


Aries-borns would soon beconie addicted to smoking since LEO 
is a fiery sign. Since if is a fixed sign, Aries-asc borns like to 
practice martial arts. Since LEO is ruled by SUN, they like to 
attend Government festivals & functions and political meetings. 
They like vulgar and obscene dances. There may arise quarrels 
or misunderstandings in the course of occasions like festivals 
and feasts. 


VI House : Virgo 


Aries-asc borns would be consistent in the sense of dressing 
and would not control their diets since Virgo is a common sign. 
They would like to eat greenish and natural food items. Since 
Mercury, the Lord of Virgo is also the lord of Gemini, ie., 
houses 3 & 6, Aries-asc borns naturally possess a high degree 
of writing skill. 


Aries 81 


VII House : Libra 


Libra/Thulam, the 7th Sign to Aries is an airy and a movable 
sign. Hence, Aries-asc borns tend to remain in the company of 
intelligent and active people. 


Venus, the lord of Libra happeus to be the lord of 2 & 7 to 
Aries. It automatically meaus 1 & 8 to Wife/Partners. Hence, 
the Aries-asc borns would cause for fear and caution to their 
companions. 


VIL House : Scorpio 


Scorpio/Vrischigam the 8th sign to Aries is a watery and fixed 
sign. Hence, Aries-asc borns would meet with accidents in Wells, 
Ponds, Overhead Water Tanks, Sunips etc. 


Since the lord of Scorpio is Mars and it is being the ruler of 1 
& 8, the Aries-asc borns, would be short-tempered; they will 
have criminal intentions and frequent fears of death. 


IX House : Sagittarius 


Dhanus/Sagittarius, the 9th sign to Aries is a common, fiery 
and a dual sign. Hence Aries-asc borns will face mental blocks 
and would loose their interest during higher education. They 
may have to continue their higher studies in more than a single 
institution. They tend to show a bit of arrogance while doing 
higher studies. 


Since the lord of Dhanus is Jupiter, the lord of houses 9 & 12, 
the Aries-asc borns may be interested in the fields like Research, 
International trade, Law, Transport, Finance etc. 


X House : Capricorn 


Makaram/Capricorn is the 10th sign to Aries. It is an earthy 
but a mono sign. Hence, the Aries-asc borns would gain status 
and confidence through helping others. 


Since Saturn, the lord of Makaram is the lord of houses 10 & 
11, the Aries-asc borns would come up in their life. They like to 
act independantly as per their will and wish. 


82 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


XI House : Aquarius 


Kumbham/Aquarius is the |1thsign to Aries. It is a fixed and 
airy sign. Hence, the Aries-asc borns tend to expect praising 
words. They have the capacity to fulfill their wishes. They will 
excel in the field of arts and culture. 


Since the lord of Kumbham is Saturn, the lord.ofhouses I0 & 
11 to Anes, the Aries-asc born people will succeed only after 
struggles. They aspire to work hard for achievements. 


XII House : Pisces 


Meenam/Pisces the 12th sign to Aries is a watery and dual 
sign. Hence, the Aries-asc borns tend to have a secret and a 
double-sided approach in all walks of their hfe. They like bed- 
comforts. They tend to spend more time on long-distance travels. 
They like to spend money on others. 


Since the lord of Meenam is Jupiter, the lord of houses 9 & 12, 
the Aries-asc borns may have secret illegal affairs and 
clandestine ties with their bosses. 


Till now we have studied a few of the Asc related significations 
of Aries asc borns by using one or two significations of the 
Signs/Planets. I would like to caution the readers as not to forget 
the fact that there are more than a few hundred significations 
with respective permutations and combinations of ASC/Signs/ 
Planets to fine-tune and determine about one's character. 


Aries &3 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF ARIES NOT RELATED TO ASCENDANT _ 


II House: 


Money is one of various significations of the II house, which is 
relatively independant of ASC. 


Taurus, the IT house to Aries, is an earthy and fixed sign. Hence, 
the Aries asc born would be firm and clear in their financial 
matters. They will utilize money in worthy ways. Their income 
will have a steady and stable nature. Most 9f the Aries asc born 
will belong to the salaried class. 


Taurus is ruled by VENUS, the planet that represents women. 
Hence, the Aries asc born will gain through women and in the 
field of arts and through their attractive speech. They would 
also happily earn their money in a quick and short span of time 
in the fields of gold, diamond, costly articles, cinema and 
cosmetics. 


If the II cusp falls in Krittiga star, which is ruled by SUN, the 
Aries asc born will deal in government treasury, government 
assets, financial institutions, financial documents, national 
savings, national awards stamps, government orders and 
valuable stones such as rubies. 


SUN is also the lord of V house to Aries. So the Aries asc born 
will gain through blue chip shares, religious and endowment 
service, arts, culture, sports, prostitution, religious rites, deep 
thoughts, intelligence, imagination skill and glamour. 


If the II cusp falls in Rohini star, which is ruled by MOON, it 
would enable the Aries asc born to gain through frequent 
financial transactions, clear speech, counselling in financial 
institutions, costly gems like pearls and ornaments. 


Moon is also the lord of the IV house to Aries. So Aries asc 
bom will gain through education and from the fields of fruits, 
vegetables, grain fields, farms and libraries; make gain out of 
leasing of ponds, lakes, and bridges. 


If the II cusp falls in Mrigasira star, which is ruled by MARS, 
then the Aries asc born will be spendthrifts, will be dishonest in 


84 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


financial matters to seize the properties from others and will 
gain from costly gems. 


Mars is also the lord of houses I & 8 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
born will, 


(i) gain from self-thoughts, will have independent income 
and will like to exhibit fmancial strength; 


(ii) gain in all kinds of crrmimal and illegal activities like 
raping, harassments, thefts, robbery, defamation suits, 
murders, treason, bribery, corruption, cheatings and 
forgery and through magic; wills insurance and charters; 
will gain in serving at accident wards, dirty places and 
mortuary. 


Ill House : 


III house to Aries is Gemini. It is an airy and common sign. 
Hence the Aries asc born will naturally have writing ability 
with interest in the fields of Journalism and Mass 
communication. Since it is a common sign, they would not be 
able to sustain their interest in these fields. Since it is an airy 
sign, their works would be appreciated by others as astonishing. 


Mercury, the lord of III house, would mduce the Aries asc bom 
to write anonymous letters and to sue others. Their writings 
will aim to win over others. They will become authors of stories, 
document writers and will become clerks: postmen, messengers, 
electricians, ambassadors, advertisers, proof-readers, brokers 
and tax-collectors. Their show of courage wil! be unnatural and 
blind. Since Mercury is a planet of dual nature, the writings of 
Aries asc bom may require editing or rewriting. 


If the III cusp falls in Mrigasira star, owned by Mars, the Aries 
asc bom will be courageous and confident, will spread false 
news, will forge documents and will involve in unnecessary 
and controversial dialogues and in unethical agreements. 


Mars is also the lord of houses I & 8 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
bom, 


Aries 8&5 


(t) wilt have courageous thoughts and actions, will have 
needed physical strength, will have independent 
thoughts, will like to exhibit their strength, will have 
excellent and proper functioning of blood vessels, 
sensory organs and nerves; 


(ii) will seize properties by threatening, will rob documents 
and notes, will sell old and obsolete goods, will write 
obscene letters, will enter into agreements for murder, 
will serve as clerk or inspector in accident or mortuary 
wards in hospitals, will become doctor to postmortem 
of corpses or brokers for bribery, will become informers 
to anti-corruption wing, will spread illegal news and 
will have unexpected mental changes. 


If the II cusp falls in Arudra star, owned by Rahu, the Aries 
asc born will become clerks in embassies, will become 
ambassadors or mediators, will enter into agreements with 
foreigners, will have notes and communication links with foreign 
organisations, and will deal with foreign goods. 


Rahu would act alike Jupiter as far as the significations of 
houses are concerned. 


If the III cusp falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Aries asc born will deal in documents and stamps, negotiable 
instruments, will enter into legal agreements, will issue legal 
orders and notices and will spread faithful and truthful news. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 9 & 12 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(i; will enter mto confident and reliable agreements and 
contracts, will involve in exchange of currency, will be 
glorified, will be certified in higher education, will enter 
into agreements of research, will become messengers, 
will negotiate In endowment activities and religious 
service, will nationalise religious/ endowment 
organisations, will assemble organs for transplantations, 
will have mternational communication network, will 
submit sales tax accounts, will become clerks in law 
departments, mediators, leasers of temple properties, 


86 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


will provide information about ancient archaeological 
monuments; 


(ii) will have information about sécret activities and plans, 
will lose energy, will Jose secret documents and savings 
certificates, will receive documents for money, will lose 
belongings and outstanding money and will have 
permanent separation of the already separated member 
of the family. 


IV H ouse: 


Cancer, the IV House to Aries 1s a movable and watery sign. 
Hence, the residence of Aries asc bom would mostly face eastern 
direction and may be in the prime part of a South-North street. 
Their residences will be surrounded by trees and will have 
surplus ground water. 


Since it is a multi-legged sign, their residences will have multiple 
rooms. Since it is a movable sign, to raise the value of their 
buildings or lands, the Aries asc born would improve their houses 
by frequent modifications aud further constructions. Their 
possessions will become valuables. 


Since the Moon, the fastest planet, 1s the owner of the sign 
Cancer, the IV House, the Aries asc bom will speedily make 
their purchases of properties, lands, machinery and household 
appliances etc. They may own ponds, agricultural lands, boats;- 
air-conditioners and refrigerators etc. They. may harvest rain 
water and will have surplus ground water. 


If the IV Cusp falls in Poonarvasu star owned by Jupiter, the . 
Aries asc bom will own properties without encumbrances, will 
Tun educational institutions or macro organisations, will become 
owners of real-estates, will involve in production and 
manufacturing process of commodities like food articles, cotton, 
silk and turmeric goods etc.. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 9 & 12 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
born, 


Aries 87 


(I) will enter contracts for properties, will earn namv 
through education, will become head masters or high 
school teachers, will involve in novel production through 
research, will maintain close affinity towards foreigners, 
will become importers, will man research centres, will 
induce the government to construct temples or create 
endowments, will manufacture organs _ for 
transplantations, will receive foreign subsidies, will 
become trustees of temples or protectors or care takers 
of ancient monuments and will work as clerks in law 
departments; 


(ii) Will work on secret plans, will lose physical energy, 
will gain secretly placed articles or treasures, will regain 
the articles that were lent, will have the nature of saving 
the articles and consolidating the ownership on 
properties, will have secret places for secret activities 
and will have reunion of separated member of the joint 
family. 

If the IV Cusp falls in Pushyam star owned by Saturn, the Aries 
asc born will encroach village common lands, will own mines 
and old or ancient buildings, old or wooden goods, pottery, oil 
seeds and black coloured articles etc. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 10 & II to Aries. So the Aries asc 
bom, 


(i) will earn name and fame as honorary landlords; own 
small scale industries and hold responsible posts with 
administrative capacity. 


(ii) will accumulate wealth with greed / nature and to their 
choice, will construct guest houses, will organize forums 
and will construct houses through companies, will gain 
fortunes through house and articles, will receive gifts 
for their achievements in production and will have 
frequent visits of friends of their choice to their house. 


If the IV Cusp falls m Aslesha star owned by Mercury, the 
Aries asc bor will be in possession of machines, computers, 
calculators, printers, micro instruments, electrical and 


88 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


electronics goods, spares, and titeS; will serve as checkers in 
vehicles, will become assemblersjof spare parts, will do 
manufacturing and wil! own lodges. 


Mercury is the lord of houses of 3 & 6 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(i) will have the press-publicity about their transfers, will 
publish books on knowledge, will confidently involve 
in production technology and gain information about 
echnical know-how, will leave the native place, will 
have stay on transfer orders, will exhibit mentally 
inclined activities. 

(ii) will leave their properties like lodges for the use of 
competitive examinations, medical camps, research 
laboratory, will do preparation of food articles or 
medicines, tailoring, manufacturing of medical 
equipments, will become money lenders against 
properties or milk men, will serve in the departments of 
accounts or purchase and will live in houses for monthly 
rent. 


V House : Leo 


V house to Aries is Leo. It 1s a fixed and fiery sign. Hence, the 
first issue of the Aries asc born may be an aborted child or a 
child with short-temper. Since it 1s a fixed sign, the delivery of 
the first child will be difficult and mostly through caesarean. 


Since the 5th sign is ruled by Sun, the Aries asc born will have 
success in the fields of arts , music and literature. The Aries born 
will show interest.n the fields of politics, sports, will be invited 
for government feasts, festivals and sports events and will deal 
with government subsidy etc. 


If the V cusp falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the Aries 
asc born will become pimps, magicians or agents on illegal 
professions, will deal with drugs and intoxicating materials, will 
enter into cheap and dirty politics with others, will be cunning 
in all their activities and will write stories on crime subjects 
and on witches and spirits. 


"Aries 89 


Ketu would act like Mercury as far as significations of houses 
are concerned. Mercury is the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Aries. So 
the Aries asc borns, 


(i) will have press-publicity about their artistic 
performances, will publish books on arts, will involve 
in advertising departments, will enter into agreements 
on artistic performances and will learn intelligent arts; 


(ii) will run competitive centres for arts, will become 
gynaecologists, nurses, costume designers, servants in 
the fields of arts and culture or at cinema halls or at 
lodges, will stay in lodges, will prepare natural 
medicines, will run medical laboratories and will work 
for commission. 


If the V house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by Venus, 
the Aries asc born will shine as stars in the fields of arts and 
culture, will become performer of obscene dances, may become 
prostitutes and will excel as orators, astrologers, pundits or 
politicians. 

Venus is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
born, 


(i) will collect artistically valuable goods like musical 
records, musical instruments, ornaments, and will 
arrange things in artistic manner; 

(ii) will have cordial social relationships, will leave in 
government quarters or in guest houses, will receive 
musical instruments as donations from the government, 
will associate themselves with voluntary or social 
organisations and will enter into love marriage. 


If the V house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun,, 
added to its planetary significations, as it is the lord of the V 

house, the Aries asc born will become share brokers, priests 

and registrar of marriages; will be fond of sports; write poems, 

stories, run sports centres, show excessive interests in sexual 

pleasure and will associate with prostitution dens, cabaret halls, 

places of religious rituals etc. 


90 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


VI House : Virgo 


Virgo is the 6th house to Aries and it is a common and earthy 
sign. So the Aries asc born will have intermittent and frequent 
health problems. 


Since the lord of Virgo is Mercury, a karaka planet for nerves, 
blood vessels and sensory organs, health problems in these parts 
of body may trouble the Aries asc borns. Since Mercury denotes 
green colour, problems due to indigestion may occur by taking 
food with greenish vegetables. The Aries born may become 
accountants, workers in shopping centres, money lenders for 
installments, collectors of money and taxes, labour contractors, 
printers, computer operators , neurologists, nurses, compounders 
and office clerks. 


Ifthe VI cusp falls in the star of Uttarapalgum, ruled by Sun, 
the Aries asc borns will acquire loans from the government, 
will face litigations from the government, will be in government 
service, will be supphed with uniforms, medicines and food by 
the government, will serve in the government departments of 
employment, food, agriculture, health and cattle development. 


Sun is also the lord of V house to Aries. So the Aries asc born 
will serve in share-brokers offices, auditoriums, sports centres, 
marriage registration offices, prostitution homes and liquor bars, 
will chant Vedic mantras, will manufacture sports goods and 
may become pimps, or proof-readers of books on arts and culture. 


If the VI cusp falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Aries asc born will work in water reservoirs, ships, fisheries 
departments and agricultural fields, will become plumbers, will 
suffer due to diseases caused by water. 


Moon is also the lord of IV house and hence the Aries asc born 
will work in the fields of lands, vehicles, buildings, macro 
organisations, food processing, live stock, education, house hold 
apphances and furniture, will work for daily wages and will 
become stage managers of music concerts. 


If the VI house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Aries asc born will suffer due to pains in muscles, heat borne 


Aries 9] 


diseases, will serve in factories, will become insane, will be 
hard workers, cooks, tailors, manufacturers of food and 
medicines. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 1 & 8 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
born, 


(i) will have self-thoughts, will suffer due to diseases in 
digestive system and to remain as inactive, will have 
success through activities, lack the power of immunity, 
will become dependant m activities, will improve their 
working capacity. 


(ii) will render hard labour, work under poor conditions, 
repair old goods and will have excessive work load. 


VII House : 


VII house to Aries is Libra. It is a movable and airy sign. Hence 
spouses of Aries asc born will be clever and will carry self- 
pride. They are dynamic with their natural talents. They are 
always active. Since it is a masculine sign, their appearance 
will be blended with masculinity. The spouses of Aries asc borns 
will not stay far behind to their husbands in their public and 
social fife. 


Since Libra is owned by Venus, spouses of Aries asc borns 
would appear beautiful. They tend to carry excessive sexual 
desires. They would often meet with women customers in their 
business. Since Venus is the lord of houses 2 & 7 for Aries and 
1 & 8 to the VII house, wives of Aries asc born are short- 
tempered and talkative. They may suffer due to body pains and 
mental stress. 


If the VII cusp falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Aries asc borns will have undisciplined and arrogant wife/ 
partners, will meet with liars, anti-social elements as customers, 
will have to deal with arrogant bank officials and will be forced 
to request assistance from others. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 1 & 8 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
born, 


92 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


will have collective thoughts, wil! listen to the words of 
others, will suffer due to problems in Kidneys, Uterus 
and lower abdomen regions, will gain success in joint 
ventures, will face increasing opposition and will lack 
independence in actions. 


(ii) will meet with cheats, murderers, criminals, anti-social 
elements, insurance officials, terrorists and policemen. 


If the VII cusp falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Aries borns will find their life/business partners from foreign 
community will become homosexuals, will be fond of excessive 
and perverted sexual pleasures. 


Rahu would act like Jupiter m the case of honse significations. 


If the VII cusp falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Aries asc born will have ca!m-natured, adjustable and 
responsible persons as life/business partners and will have 
popular persons as their customers. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 9 & 12 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(i) will often meet with leaders, foreigners, exporters, 
judges, priests, trustees and teachers and socially down 
trodden people. 


(ii) will plan secretly, will become collectors of loan-ques, 
will meet thieves, persons who threaten, persons who 
have secret links, persons who assist them in investments 
and persons who would lead to losses to them. 


VIII House : Scorpio 


Scorpio is the 8th sign to Aries. It is a watery and fixed sign. 
The Aries asc born will meet with accidents due to heavy rains 
or in floods or at bridges or at ponds and wells. 


Since this sign is owned by Mars, accidents and dangers would 
be caused by fire or by red coloured articles and may be due to 
production of excessive heat. Accidents and dangers may be 
caused by short-temper, arrogance and anger of the Aries born. 


Aries 93 


They may involve in petty street quarrels, riots, struggles, 
terrorism, seizures, false allegations, police and military actions, 
troubles caused by brothers, handling of weapons, cruel 
accidents, raping, murders, robbery, forgery, cheatings and 
suicide squads. 


If the VIL house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Aries asc born will be punished by law, will do illegal 
activities and will disobey rules and regulations. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 9 & I2 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(i) will face troubles in export/import contracts in ports and 


(1) 


in teaching profession, will meet with fire accidents in 
research centres and ancient monuments, will close 
endowments and trusts, will misappropriate temple 
taxes, will be punished by the court and will divide the 
panchayat boards. 


will face troubles in secret plans, will face dejections, 
seizures, robbery and cheatings, will become unable to 
liquidate investments, will face troubles caused by the 
separated member of the family and will face losses. 


If the VIII house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by 
Saturn, the Aries asc born will face disrespect, will be 
annihilated, will be threatened, will threaten, will 
abscond, will become cowards, will suffer due to loss 
of memory, will face false allegations, cruel accidents, 
will modify old goods and will involve themselves in 
cruel acts. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 10 & 11 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(1) 


94 


will face allegations in the substantiation process of 
employment, will be corrupt in higher posts by using 
their administrative capacity, will lose name, fame and 


¢ status and will face hurdles in promotion process in 


service; 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(ii) will struggle with greediness, will be harassed in lodges, 
will misappropriate in societies, will face no-confidence 
motions in societies, will face troubles and dejections 
in desired fields, will see the fortunes turning into 
misfortunes, will have unfortunate employment 
opportunities and will suffer from vitamin deficiency. 


If the VIII house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Aries asc born will face troubles by way of cheques, 
negotiable instruments, documents, electrical and telephone 
connections, agreements, surety, anonymous letters, 
forgetfulness and neurological disorders. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(i) will have notorious press publicity, will write books on 
criminology, will spread rumours, will make mistakes 
in accounting, will suffer due to forgetfulness, will face 
adverse remarks im service matters, Will face troubles 
in the services as clerk, m taking tenders, in writings 
and communications and will suffer due to deteriorations 
in body organs. 


(ii) will face troubles in centres of competitive 
examinations; suffer due to medical treatment, 
negligence of medical staff, side effects of medicines, 
acidity and allergy; will face allegations in lodges and 
will meet with accidents in the preparation of medicines. 


IX House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius is the 9th sign to Aries. It 1s a dual and a common 
sign. Hence, the Aries asc born may study two different types 
of courses. To go for higher education, they may have to change 
their places of residence. Since it happens to be a fiery sign, 
their character and appearance would not match to their studies. 


Since Jupiter is the lord of this sign, their profession may not 
be related to their studies. Aries asc born will excel in research 
fields and in higher studies and at foreign countries. They may 
become professors, financial controllers of countries, temple 


Aries 95 


trustees and ambassador in embassies, exporters and the trend 
setters in the fields of law, religion and discipline of the society. 


If the 1X house falls in the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the 
Aries asc born would become judges in criminal courts, would 
study criminology and forensic science, will investigate crimes, 
will become archaeologists, will trai subversive elements, will 
illegally export and import goods and will carry subversive 
activities in foreign countries. 


Ketu would act like Mercury as far as the significations of 
houses are concerned. Mercury is the lord of houses 3 & 6 to 
Aries. So the Aries asc born, 


(i) will get due press publicity about celebrations and happy 
occasions, will publish books on information and 
communication, research and education, will spread 
news, will show interest in mathematics, will have good 
power of memory, will exchange properties and will 
undertake works within their capacity; 


(ii) will become supervisor in competitive examination 
centres, will suffer due to increase in hereditary disorders 
or due to side effects of medicines or due to excessive 
intake or due to acidity, will become nurses or medical 
lab technicians, will undertake joint ventures in medical 
research, will have illegal affairs in research fields, will 
sign mutual agreements in international bodies and will 
be offered with employment on the grounds of legal 
heirships. 


If the IX house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Aries asc born will involve in the research of artistic fields, 
will study higher education and automobile engineering, will 
become decorators of marriage halls and halls of feast and will 
have illegal affairs with foreigners or teachers. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
born, 


6 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) will talk decently and adjustably, will get ancestral gold 
and goods, will get money as donations, and will receive 
costly gifts. 


(ii) will be alleged in lodges, will be separated from second 
wife, will have illegal affairs with sister-in-laws, will 
discontinue the illegal affairs, will win friendships with 
government officials and will get due recognition for 
their social service institutions. 


If the IX house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Aries asc born will be interested in the fields cf religion, higher 
education, embassies, government research centres, finance 
departments and international organisations. 


Sun is also the lord of V house to Aries. So the Aries asc born 
will undertake rehgious endowments or pilgrimage, will have 
religious faiths, will get cured from diseases by god's grace and 
will get relieved from service. 


X House : Capricorn 


Capricorn is the X sign to Anes, which is a movable and earthy 
sign. Hence, the professional life of Aries asc bom would always 
progress upwards. 


Since Saturn is the lord of this sign, which is also the lord of 
houses I0 & 11, fulfillment of professional ambitions would be 
delayed. They may become office assistants in the departments 
of pohce, military and corporate companies. They would come 
up in their life from the lower status and will respect the feelings 
of subordinates. They may also deal in old goods. 


If the X house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Aries asc born will become higher officials and will hold 
honorary posts, will be in government service and will be able 
to work in industrial centres or industrial training institutes, 
employment exchanges and trade centres organised by~ the 
government. 


Sun is also the lord of the V house to Aries. So the Aries asc 
born will perform religious rituals, will organise pilgrimage 
tours, preachers of religion, priests, artists, painters, singers, 


Aries ~ 97 


poets, astrologers, musicians, gynaecologists, producers of 
vitamin syrups and will perform religious rituals. 


if the X house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Aries asc bor will be in white collar jobs, will handle liquid 
and white coloured articles in their professional fields, wilt deal 
in consumer goods, will be in the fields of ports, wells, pipelines, 
boating and fisheries. 


Moon is also the lord of the IV house to Aries. So the Aries asc 
bom will manufacture goods, would. involve in production 
process, will do farming, building constructions, carpentry, auto 
mechanism, cleaning and production of electricity, will be in 
the fields of water tanks, boilers, grain fields, fruit gardens and 
godowns. 


lf the X house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Aries asc bor will handle fire in their profession, will become 
administrative officers in the departments of police and military, 
will act on responsible capacity, will be accountable for 
government documents and will be m the fields of lands and 
houses. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 1 & 8 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
bor, 


(i) will use their own ideas im their professional fields, will 
be over enthusiastic in their profession, will become 
industrialists, will undertake honorary and prestigious 
ventures, will suffer due to malfunctioning of the body, 
will increase their power, will be capable of acting 
independently and will make modern changes in their 
professional fields. 


(ii) will become professional criminals and anti-social 
elements of all kinds and will sell old and repaired goods. 


XI House : Aquarius 


Aquarius is the 1]th Sign to Aries. It is a fixed sign. Hence the 
Aries asc borns tend to carry long-term ambitions. Since it is 
also an airy sign, they carry a higher degree of expression of 
their talents and they are greedy for name and fame. 


98 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since this is a sign ruled by Saturn, the lord of houses 10 & 1], 
the Aries asc bom will have to overcome difficulties in fulfilling 
their ambitions. They never get satisfied at any particular point. 
False satisfactions are common among many Aries asc bom. 
They will have friendships or relationships with liars, lazy and 
undisciplined people; and they may also purchase properties 
with litigations. 


If the XI house falls in the star of Dhanishta, mled by Mars, the 
Aries asc born will have friendships or relationships with 
insincere people, will have to win things of their choice after 
prolonged struggles and will be greedy. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 1 & 8 to Aries. So the Aries asc 
bom, 


(i) Will always think about themselves, will have excessive 
percentage of vitamins in the body, will have increasing 
desires, will be fond of name and fame, will have a high 
sense of taste, will be selfish, will have independent 
Opinions and will have the ability of imagination. 


(ii) Will face trouble in things of their desires, will become 
tension-borne, will have dissatisfactions and dejections, 
will be hasty in desires and will have mental fluctuations. 


if the XI house falls in the star of Sathabisham, mled by Rahu, 
the Aries asc bom will become researchers in the fields of drugs 
and liquors, will become surgeons of transplantations, will 
manufacture artificial organs, will run religious research centres 
and intemational cultural centres, will teach foreign languages 
and will deal in foreign grain godowns. 


Rahu would act like Jupiter as far as the significations of houses 
are concemed. 


If the XI house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, mled by Jupiter, 
the Aries asc born wiff fulfil their legitimate desires through 
lawful means; will have friendships and relationships with 
truthful and sincere people. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 9 & 12 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc bom, 


Aries 99 


(i) | Willhave links with social service institutions and higher 
officials, will undertake voluntary service, will become 
polygamists, will undertake foreign journeys of their 
choice, will study the course of their choice, will have 
international links and agreements of their choice and 
will involve in research fields. 


(ii) Will be happy through secret contacts, will invest in the 
fields of their choice, will have success in research 
attempts, will detail things which could not easily be 
understood by others and will have secret relationships 
through friends. 


XII House : Pisces 


Pisces is the 12th house to Aries. It is a watery sign. Hence, the 
bed comforts would be pleasant to the Aries asc born. Since it 
1s also a common sign, they may have to visit other states 
frequently. 


Since Jupiter is the lord of this sign, the Aries asc born will 
have an inclination towards research, and may have illegal affairs 
and international and inter-state contacts etc. They will have 
secret disturbances through law, will get into income-tax raids, 
will be imprisoned, will print fake currency and will undertake 
jobs of secret financial reviews. 


If the XII house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
in addition to its own bhava karakas as detailed in the previous 
paragraph, as it is lord of houses 9 & 12 to Aries, the Aries asc 
born, 


(i) Will spend for social service and voluntary organisations, 
will have secret links with higher officials and with 
foreign nations, will enter into secret agreements, will 
study research education, will face hurdles in higher 
education, will have secret and multiple love affairs and 
will undertake foreign journeys. 


(ii) Will incur losses im secret contacts, will be unable to 
hquidate investments and recollect outstanding amounts 
and binami properties; will maintain secrecy, will go 


100 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


on undertaking research and will} have stable and 
permanent secret relationships. 


If the XII house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Aries asc born will take secret revenges, will hoard things, 
will avoid things, will plan secretly, will do adulterations and 
smugghings and will secretly involve in indecent acts. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses {0 & 11 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(i) Will secretly hold responsible posts and will undertake 
jobs with heavy workloads and dual natured jobs. 


(ii) Will have secret activities in societies and clubs, will 
have breach of agreements with societies, will miss 
fortunate opportunities, will fail in achievements and 
will keep modern methods m secrecy. 


If the XII house falls in the star of Revathi ruled by Mercury, 
the Aries asc born will invent micro instruments through 
research, will keep secret notes, photographs, documents and 
accounts, will enter into secret agreements and will not hesitate 
to do adulterations. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Aries. So the Aries 
asc born, 


(i) Will lose their physical energy, will get notorious 
publicity in the press, will have breach of agreements, 
will face troubles m information and communications, 
will sell books, will block information, will make 
mistakes in accounts, will lose power of memory and 
will become sellers. 


(ti) Will gain secret success, will become unconscious due 
to allergic food, will change service of their choice, will 
get successful opportunities after making undue 
expenditures, will suffer due to the inability to diagnose 
diseases and will be separated from the subordinates or 
servants. 


Aries 101 


Note 1: As per the Placidius system of Cuspal divisions, two 
bhavas may fall in a single sign itself. For example, in a few 
charts of Aries asc bor, the fourth and fifth cusp may fall in 
Cancer itself. The star lord of the V house will be Mercury in 
these cases. If so, we may have to draw predictions by 
considering the planetary and Bhava significations of the Planet 
Mercury. 


Note 2: The traditional followers may appropriately include the 
residential bhava significattons of planets for further predictions. 


Note 3: Method of using Sublord or Subsublord. 


(i) Identify the sublord. For example, let us presume that 
ASC is Mars-Venus-Mercury in Aries and Mercury is 
the sublord of the Asc. Then the significations of houses 
3 & 6 would form the core of the character alongwith 
the planetary significations of Mercury. 


(ii) Identify the starlord of the sublord. If Mercury, the ASC 
sublord resides in the star of Moon, include the 
significations of IV house, as Moon is the lord of Cancer, 
the IV house to Aries along with the planetary 
significations of Moon. 


(iii) Identify the starlord of the sublord. If Mercury, the ASC 
sublord resides in the star of Moon, in stead of using 
rule (11), note down the cuspal points, to which Moon is 
the cuspal sublord. Supposing that Moon is the cuspal 
sublord of houses 5 & 8, then, the significations of houses 
5 & 8 along with the planetary significations of Moon 
are to be studied for predictions. (KB method) 


(iv) The above rule could extensively be used for subsubs 
as better replacement to the subs. However, the accuracy 
of subsubs would depend on the accuracy of software, 
birth time and place of birth. Hence, care has to be taken 
in using "Subsubs". 


Note 4i Character, Physique especially with regard to the weight 
and the colour and behaviour of a person tend to change 
according to the Dasa/Bhukthi periods. It has also to be taken 
appropriately into account. ae 
102 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


‘Taurus 


General nature of the sign Taurus 


It is a fixed, dual, earthy, soft natured animal, ox, four-legged, 
feminine, semi-fruitful sign, static, obedient, long ascension, 
main road, mid-days, compound houses, middle part of a street, 
banks, safety rooms, khajana or treasury, cosmetics, pantry, 
residences of women like nunnery or convent, fertile lands, white 
in colour, east in direction, month of Vaikasi in Tamil and 
Vaishaka in Saka calendars, the second sign of the Zodiac or 
Kaalchakra. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF TAURUS 


Derivations from the above mentioned karakas of Taurus could 
be as under : 


1. Itisan Earthy sign: Affinity towards family and friends, 
public relations, well structured body and obedient. 


2. Itis a house of Venus: More sexual interests, fond of 
cosmetics, watery in body structure, costumes and 
jewellery and good physique 


3. Itis a Fixed sign: Stat ic in structure and nature. 


4. Itis the Second sign of Zodiac: Fond of money, gold 
and valuable articles; greedy. 


Inthe same manner, the remaining significations could also be 
interpreted. 


Taurus 103 


Venus is the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Taurus: Let us take the 
bhava significations of the planet Venus for the houses 1 & 6. 


I House : Taurus 


Beauty, handsome, attractive, drawing others through actions, 
sexy, self-pride, interested in self-beautification, fond of 
cosmetics, costumes and jewellery. 


VI House : Libra 


Workers in the fields of arts and culture, tailors, servants in 
vegetable and fruit shops and the fields of hardware and paints: 
they will suffer from diabetes. 


The significations of the I! & VII house of the Kaalchakra 
on Asc are: 


II House : Gemini 


Materializing self-thoughts, thoughts of money, speedy 
functioning of the body, highly active, immediate expression of 
thoughts, independent income and expressing status through 
money. 


VII House : Scorpio 


Collective thoughts and listening to others; kidney, uterus, 
diseases in the lower parts of stomach, successful joint ventures; 
weakness caused by lack of immunity, increasing oppositions 
and inability to act independently; well known persons; face 
oppositions resulted by their own deeds. 


The sign Taurus extends over for three stars leading to the 
following body natures: 


Krittiga :OQwned by Sun - High calcium content and hot body. 


Rohini : Owned by Moon - Surplus blood and water in the 
body. 


Mrigasira : Owned by Mars - Muscular and hyper-thermal 
body. 


104 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


1: Ase significations of Sun : 


Majestic in appearance with powerful bone-structure; will have 


qualities of honesty, leadership, self-esteem, authority and power. 


Sun is the lord of IV house to Taurus: So we will also have to 
take into account the IV house significations of Sun. 


IV House : Leo 


Production according to self-thoughts, courageous acts, heart 
& lungs, excessive production in the body, increasing power 
and strength, doing things as desired, active functioning of 
productive organs in the body. 


The combination of Venus & Sun: (1, 4& 6) 


Landlords and great achievers; suffer from diseases in bones 
and productive organs of the body; will be persons with self- 
pride, womanisers, selfish and greedy; have excessive interests 
in materialistic and sexual pleasures. 


The combination of Venus & Moon: (1, 3 & 6) 


Success through struggles, court cases, litigations; brokers and 
lawyers; suffer from diseases in sensory organs, blood vessels, 
nerves, mental disorders, diabetes, sentiments, self-praise, 
submissive, wavering mind; sexy in appearance. 


The combination of Venus & Mars: (1, 6, 7 & 12) 


Excessive sexual interests, disobedient, addiction to hquor and 
drugs, indiscipline, harsh and rough attitude in sexual affairs, 
divorce or separation from life-partners, problems caused by 
partners, enmity, contagious diseases. 


Let us study the Asc related significations of the remaining 11 
bhavas to Taurus. 


II House : Gemmi 


Since the IIT house of Kaalchakra ts the II house to Taurus, the 
Taurus asc borns will have natural ability to express their 
thoughts. Their conversattons would mostly centre on 
informations and communications, documents and records etc. 


Taurus 


05 


II house Gemini is an airy and common sign. Hence Taurus 
asc borns will not generally stick to their words. They would 
frequently change their stands in their negotiations with only a 
low percentage of truth in what they say. They tend to talk as if 
they know everything under the sky. 


Since it is a house owned by Mercury, their conversations will 
be clear and will contain sense of humour, double meanings 
and with cunningness. 


III House : Cancer 


Since the IV house of the Kaalchakra 1s the III house to Taurus, 
the Taurus asc born will not like to reside long in any one place. 
They carry a desire to change their residences often. 


Since Cancer is a watery and movable sign, they have wavering 
minds. Doubting natured Taurus asc born tend to confuse them. 
Their mind would always hang around development of 
properties, lands and houses etc. 


Since Cancer is a house owned by Moon, the Taurus asc born 
would have speedy mind fluctuations and would lack mental 
stability and balance. 


IV House : Leo 


Since the V house of Kaalchakra, Leo is the IV house to Taurus, 
the Taurus born will like to get educated in the fields of arts, 
culture and about children. 


Since Leo is a fixed and fiery sign, the behaviour of Taurus asc 
borns would not confirm to their education. They may have to 
face many hardships during then primary education. 


Since Leo is a sign owned by Sun, the Taurus asc born will get 
a good chance for educational scholarships from the government. 


V House: Virgo 


Since the VI house of Kaalchakra, Virgo is the V house ta 
Taurus, the romantic life of Taurus asc borns will face many 
hardships. Diseases in the blood cells would be common among 
Taurus asc borns. 


106 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


The V house Virgo is a common and earthy sign. Hence the 
Taurus asc born is flexible and tends to carry fluctuating interests 
in the fields of arts and culture. 


Since Virgo is a sign owned by Mercury, the Taurus asc horns 
will have multiple love affairs, will be interested in more than a 
single field of arts and culture and they may become 
mathematicians. 


VI House: Libra 


Since the VII house of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Taurus, 
the opponents of Taurus asc borns will lose their strength. 
Taurus asc born is easily prone to contagious diseases. 


The VI house Libra is a movable and airy sign; so Taurus asc 
born will easily recover from illnesses; they are prone to 
respiratory disorders and gastric ulcer etc. 


Since Libra is owned by Venus, inspiration to success could 
be gained through women, diseases may be caused by women, 
vegetables; diabetes may be a common disease among the 
Taurus asc borns. 


VII House : Scorpio 


» since the VIII house of the Kaalchakrais the VII house to Taurus 
asc borns, they tend to increase enmities; they are shy of talking 
to the opposite sex; they are prone to tension and fear; the Taurus 
asc borns are problematic people and would create problems 
with their life partners. 


Scorpio, the VII house is a watery and fixed sign. Hence the 
Taurus asc born has excessive production of sperms with more 
sexual interests; they are flexible towards others but would 
commit to firm decisions. 


Since it is a house owned by Mars, the Taurus asc born will 
have the company of arrogant people and subsequently would 
face mental agony and financial losses through them. 


Taurus 107 


VIII House : Sagittarius 


The IX house of Kaalchakra is VIII house to Taurus. Hence 
they will face hardships in continuing their higher education 
like suspension or dismissal from colleges etc.; they may also 
be punished at foreign countries; they will damage their 
reputation in illegal affairs. 


Since the VIII house is a common and fiery sign, they may meet 
with accidents at crowded places, or may be due to animals, or 
fire. They tend to attempt suicides by charring themselves due 
to loss of prestige in their higher education. 


Since it is a house owned by Jupiter, the Taurus asc borns may 
be punished by courts of law and would be troubled by people 
belonging to higher social strata; damage to their prestige may 
be caused by children. 


IX House : Capricorn 


The X house of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Taurus. Hence, 
the Taurus asc born will get status through education. They 
may lead educational institutions. 


They will excel in higher education. They may get professional 
assistance through their illegal affairs. 


IX house is Capricorn. It is a movable sign. Hence speedy 
progress in higher education would be possible to the Taurus 
asc born. Since it is also an earthy sign, they will serve with 
their education for the benefit of the society. 


Since it is a house owned by Saturn, they will study long term 
courses. Education in the fields of science and technology would 
suit to their interests. 

X House : Aquarius 


The XI house of Kaalchakra is the X house to Taurus. Hence, 
the Taurus asc borns would like to hold honorary posts. They 
tend to show off their self-pride and will have job satisfactions. 


Since their X house Aquarius is a fixed sign, they carry 


108 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


permanent social relations. Since it is an airy sign, their status 
would grow day by day. 


Since it is a house owned by Saturn, they may have to earn 
status only after a prolonged struggle. They tend to like cheap 
publicity and carry false status. 


XI House : Pisces 


Since the XII house of the Kaalchakra is the XI house of Taurus, 
the Taurus asc born will derive satisfaction in secret affairs, 
research works and life at foreign countries. 


Pisces, their XI house is a watery and common sign. So the 
Taurus asc borns tend to change their interests according to 
changing circumstances. They will struggle and win in their 
chosen fields and circumstances with high fluctuations. 


Jupiter is the lord of their XI house. Hence they will gain legally 
and in the fields of rehgion and philosophy. (Since Jupiter also 
happens to be the lord of 8th house, such gains would come 
unexpectedly) 


XII House : Aries 


Since the first house of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Taurus, 
the Taurus asc borns will not show their natural face and would 
never hesitate to carry-out secret plans, subversive acts, 
adulteration and forgery etc. They will go to any extent to fulfil 
their personal desires. 


Since Aries is a fiery and movable sign, the Taurus asc borns 
will have deceiving and cruel mind; they will maintain intimacy 
with officials and secret persons. 


Since it is a house owned by Mars, the lord of houses 7 & 12 to 
Taurus, the Taurus asc borns will have many secret enemies. 


Taurus It 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF TAURUS UNRELATED TO 
ASCENDANT 


II House : Geminj 


Gemini, the III house of Kaalchakra is the II house to Taurus. 
Hence, the Taurus asc boms would make financial gains in the 
fields of information, communication, writings, agreements, 
cheques, money-order and documents etc. 


Gemini is a common sign. Hence the Taurus asc boms would 
not have a steady flow of income. Since it is an airy sign, the 
Taurus asc borns could make their earnings in a speedy way. 
But in the same speed, they would spend all their income. 


Since this house is owned by Mercury, the lord of houses 2 & 
5 to Taurus, the Taurus asc borns can make profits through 
lottery, gambling and in playing cards etc. They could earn in 
installments. They can earn through greemsh articles, costly 
micro in truments, cheques and negotiable instruments. They 
will make money with their ability of witty and descriptive 
speech and mimicry. 


If the II house falls in Mrigasira star ruled by Mars, the Taurus 
asc boms will be spendthrifts, will not hesitate to tell hes and 
will be dishonest in financial matters, will make money out of 
coral ornaments and metals, will seize properties and belongings 
of others, will use indecent and filthy language to hurt the 
feehngs of others in financial matters. 


Mars 1s also the lord of houses 7 & 12 to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will, 


(i) make profits through spouse and relatives, government 
recognition, government subsidy, assistance from others, 
partnerships, banks and by tax evasions. 


(ti) financially be benefited through secret plans and 
activities, money lending, savings, investments, 
hoardings and ancient articles; they will be able to 
recollect the outstanding and the goods that were lost. 


If the II house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 


110 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Taurus asc borns will talk generously and decently in financial 
matters, will have foreign exchange, will avail foreign 
scholarships or aids, will guide foreigners and will keep the 
money of foreigners. 


Rahu would act like Jupiter as far as the significations of houses 
are concerned. 


If the Il house falls in the star of Punarvasu ruled by Jupiter, 
the Taurus asc borns will deal in treasuries, gold articles, 
jewellary and banks and will be honest and sincere in financial 
matters. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 8 & 11 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) make money through hard labour under severe working 
conditions and at dirty places, will earn as bribe money 
in mortuary and accident wards, will earn through 
harassments and all kinds of anti-social activities and 
will gain in insurance policies or wills and charters and 
magic; 

(ii) gain through greedy nature and in easy and happy means, 
romance, societies, fortunes, success, achievements, 
entertainments, friends and through cordial speech; they 
could make money through means of their choice. 


III] House : Cancer 


Cancer the IV sign of the Kaalchakra is the II] house to Taurus. 
Hence the Taurus asc borns will produce documents for village 
common lands and for unclaimed properties without legal heirs. 
They will deal in the fields of education, lands, houses, vehicles, 
machinery etc. They will maintain good relationships with 
advertisers, representatives and agents. 


Since Cancer is a watery and movable sign; they may acquire 
water reservoirs, bridges or irrigation tanks etc through lease. 
They can also make profits out of them. 


Since it is a sign owned by Moon, the Taurus asc bcrastend {1 
change their places of residences, vehicles, machiner and far. 


Taurus “TE ae 


etc., they will be quick in communicating, will undertake speedy 
journeys, will write articles and stories with imaginations and 
will always like to have happy information. 


If the III house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Taurus asc borns will deal in documents, stamps, cheques 
of huge amounts, will negotiate in financial matters, will be 
truthful in communications, will enter into legal agreements 
and will-get communications by way of government orders and 
legal notices. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 8 & 11 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) seize properties by humiliating others, will steal notes, 
will sell old goods, will write obscene and threatening 
letters, will have mental depressions, will work as clerks 
"1 accident wards, will become inspectors of mortuary, 
Ill give news about anti-corruption activities, will have 
illegal news, will hold insurance policies, will forge 
documents and will have mental fluctuations in 
negotiations and agreements; 


(ii) make advance reservations and registrations with greedy 
motives, will have satisfactory informations, will boast 
about their romance, will be recognised by societies, 
will show interest in the fields of their choice, will have 
fortunate informations, will be certified for their 
successes and achievements, will win confidence of 
others by entertaining others, will make friendships with 
persons of their choice. 


If the III house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, the 
Taurus asc borns will become afraid of negotiations and 
communications, undertake frequent short journeys, prefer to 
walk long distances, frequently change themselves, write 
anonymous letters and forge documents. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 9 & 10 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


112 A Strologics of kaalchakra 


(i) enter into confident and honest agreements, will have 
name and fame, will exchange money, will become 
certified in higher education, will receive orders of 
leaderships, will enter into agreements of research, will 
make friendships with foreigners and will establish 
international contacts, will send messages, will negotiate 
in religious endowments and practices, will become 
clerks in law departments, will act as mediators, will 
take lease of temple properties and will involve in the 
transplantations of organs; 


(ii) receive orders for honorary posts, will do business 
through status, will show responsibility in counselling, 
will be appreciated for their admimistrative capabilities 
and will get needed publicity through their name and 
fame. 


If the Ill house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Taurus asc borns will be able to wnite stories and articles, 
will become document writers, registrars, clerks, postmen, 
communicators, electricians, ambassadors, advertisers, proof 
readers and tax collectors and will lack stability in mind. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 2 & 5 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) excel in their writings, will act according to writings, 
will receive things in their mind and will write truths; 


(ti) deal in share markets, will write about politics, religion, 
sports and romance, will improve their intelligence, will 
excellently write love letters, will have permanent 
physical attraction and will spread news about religious 
rituals. 


IV House: Leo 


Leo, the V sign to the Kaalchakra is the IV house to Taurus. 
Hence the Taurus asc borns tend to dwell in places near 
maternity homes, temples, and child care centres etc. 


Since Leo is a fiery and a fixed sign, the Taurus borns tend to 
dwell in congested places or in a compound of houses. They 


Taurus | 113 


may have to live in the outskirts of a city. Their houses may 
lack thermal protection. The walls of the houses may have a 
few cracks and at times may collapse. 


Since it is a house owned by Sun, they may live in the houses of 
government officials or near government staff quarters. They 
may encroach village common lands, will be in possession of 
government vehicles and machinery, will study in government 
institutions and will deal with government departments of forest 
and hills, housing and transport. 


If the IV house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
Taurus asc borns will purchase properties with litigations, will 
seize properties through cheatings, will prepare spurious or 
substandard goods, drugs and intoxicating materials and will 
possess ancient and archaeologically valuable goods. 


Ketu would act Jike Mercury, as far as the significations of 
houses are concerned. Mercury is the lord of houses 2 & 5 to 
Taurus. So the Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) purchase costly and valuable articles like gold 
ornaments, will construct bungalows and will 
excessively keep things in store; 


(ii) deal in company shares, will produce artistically rare 
goods, will become trainers at sports or religious centres, 
will deal in auditoriums, marriage halls and prostitution 
homes. 


If the IV house falls in the star of Poorvapalgunt, ruled by Venus, 
the Taurus asc borns will live in palaces with greenish flower 
gardens, manufacture cosmetic goods, glass ware, plastics, 
produce films and run institutions of arts and automobiles. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will, 


(i) manufacture goods with their own ideas and self- 
thoughts, will act courageously, will have proper 
functioning of productive organs in the body, will make 
independent and personal purchases, will improve their 
abihty and capacity and will do things only as they think; 


114 Astrologics of kaatchakra 


(ii) organise medical camps, will own lodges, centres of 
competitive examinations, medical laboratories, will do 
catering, tailoring, manufacturing of medical 
equipments, live in houses for rent, work as accountants 
in purchase departments, involve in money lending on 
properties. 


If the V house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
besides its planetary significations, by being the lord of the IV 
house would enable the Taurus asc borns to involve in farming 
and cattle developments, deal in stationeries and papers for 
educational institutions, deal in groceries, produce furniture, 
machineries and hardware materials for construction industry. 


V House: Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of the Kaalchakra is the V house to Taurus. 
Hence the Taurus asc borns will have unhealthy children; they 
may have to raise loans or to face court cases on behalf of their 
children. 


It is an earthy and common sign; so the Taurus asc borns will 
show excessive affinity towards their children; but they would 
not live together with their children for long. 


The V house is owned by Mercury. Hence the Taurus asc borns 
will have more than a single child. Their children may be 
intelligent and will excel in conversations. The Taurus asc borns 
will become good singers, comedians, debaters, commission 
agents and trainers of arts, drawings, sculptures and musical 
instruments. 


If the V house falls in the star of Uttarapalgnni, ruled by Sun, 
the Taurus asc borns will have success in the fields of arts, 
music and literature. The Taurus asc borns will show interest 
in the fields of politics and sports, will be invited for government 
feasts, festivals and sports events and will deal in government 
subsidy etc. 


Sun is also the lord of the IV house to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will have high level of immunity, will act for training 
in arts, will prepare nutritious food, will do cattle development 


Taurus “H15 


and live stock, will manufacture musical instruments, will 
become cosmeticians, journalists, film producers and stage 
managers of dance and music concerts. 


If the V house falls in the star of Hastha, the Taurus asc borns 
will perform character or youthful roles in dramas and cinemas, 
will become poets, thinkers, will be blessed with intelligent 
children, wil) associate themselves with recreation clubs and 
will have pleasant and cordial marnied life. 


Moon is also the lord of the III house to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will get press publicity about their artistic 
performances, will pubhsh books on arts, will involve in the 
field of advertising, will enter into agreements for artistic 
performances and will be intelligent and imaginative in 
performing arts. 


If the V house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Taurus asc born will be arrogant in copulation, will perform 
obscene dances, will be atheists and will like martial arts and 
boxing. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 7 & !2 to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will, 


(i) have cordial relationships with society, will live in 
government staff quarters or guest houses, will receive 
musical instruments as donations, will marry lover, will 
join with partners and will associate with voluntary 
organizations. 


(ii) plan secretly in love affans, will fail in love affairs, will 
regain energy, will secretly deliver illegitimate child and 
will reunite with separated member of the family. 


VI House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of the Kaalchakra is the VI house to Taurus. 
Hence the Taurus asc borns will raise bank loans and would 
file law suits. They tend to make social relationships with selfish 
motives. Their friendships would not last long. They could 
achieve success only with the assistance of others. 


116 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since Libra is an airy and movable sign, their loans tend to 
mcrease; they may serve in gas services, boilers and automobile 
service stations. They tend to show self-pride in their professions. 


Libra is a sign owned by Venus; soTaurus asc borns will 
become debtors on behalf of women. Taurus asc borns wiil 
serve in the fields of arts, weaving, tailoring, catering, fruits 
and vegetables, cosmetics, glass and plastic ware, silver and 
silk. 


If the VI house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Taurus asc borns will suffer due to muscle pains and heat borne 
diseases, will serve m industries, may become insane, will be 


hard workers and labourers, cooks, tailors, manufacturers of 
food and medicines. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 7 & 12 to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will, 


(i) serve in social service institutions, voluntary 
organisations and labour welfare departments, will 
become agents to government officials, will act as 
marriage brokers and will become labour contractors. 


(ii) acquire loans through secret plans, will clear debts by 
further borrowings, will regain whatevas lost, will be 
able to liquidate investments, will undertake medical 
treatment, will have break-even of income and 
expenditures and will face litigations by the separated 
member of the family. 


if the VI house falls m the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Taurus asc borns will suffer due to respiratory disorders, will 
like to have excessive intake of food, will become addicted to 
drugs and intoxicating materials, will serve as anaesthetist and 
operators of artificial respiratory equipments and will deal with 
food items with fragrant smells. 


Rahu would act like Jupiter as far as the significations of the 
houses are concerned. 


If the VI house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Taurus asc borns will serve in huge organisations, banks, 


Taurus 117 


will be fond of fatty food items, will suffer due to excessive 

percentage of cholesterol and diseases in blood cells, will acquire 
loans through banks, will lead feasts and festivals and will 

become bankers, medical officers and lawyers. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 8 & 11 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) become hard labourers or medical surgeons, will work 
under dirty and severe working conditions, will repair 
old goods and will have heavy workload. 


(ii) win after struggles, will remain in lodges, will serve in 
societies, will win litigations against societies, will have 
fortunate opportunities of employment, will make 
achievements in their fields and will be able to correctly 
diagnose diseases. 


VII House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of the Kaalchakra is the VII house to 
Taurus. Hence the Taurus asc borns may have to meet with 
accidents at the time of their marnage and may blame their 
spouses as unlucky. 


It is a watery and fixed sign; The Taurus asc bors would 
frequently be attracted by the opposite sex. They tend to maintain 
long-standing relationships with their spouses or partners. 


Since it is a house owned by Mars, the Taurus asc borns may 
have to face difficulties and financial losses on behalf of their 
spouses or partners. Their spouses would be arrogant and 
indisciplined. They may have to meet with customers who are 
liars. They may have to deal with arrogant bank officials and 
anti-social elements. They would be forced to request the 
assistance from others. 


If the VII house falls in the Star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Taurus asc borns would have a calm and adjustable spouses; 
they may deal with popular persons, honest customers and 
partners in their professional field. 


118 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since Jupiter is the lord of the houses 8 & 11 to Taurus, the 
Taurus asc borns, 


(i) may have to meet with all kinds of anti-social elements 
and insurance officials; 


(ii) will like to meet with frends of their choice, elderly 
people, entertainers, well-wishers, parties who are 
interested in legal agreements, recognised persons and 
truthful people. 


If the VII house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Taurus asc borns will marry or meet with insincere, 
untruthful, indecent persons with doubting minds. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 9 & 10 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) meet with political leaders, priests, foreigners, exporters, 
judges, trustees, teachers and socially downtrodden 
people; 


(ti) often work and meet with colleagues, administrative 
officials, trade uniomsts, business customers and dealers, 
persons of status and persons who bring status to them. 


If the VII house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Taurus asc borns will marry or meet with witty, 
well educated and clever people; they would often meet 
with mediators and shareholders. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 2 & 5 to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will, 


(i) be able to get financial assistance from others, will have 
profitable negotiations with banking institutions, will 
purchase and acquire gold or costly articles with the 
assistance of others, will receive costly articles as gifts, 
will render excessive labour, will lead the family and 
will receive or give money as assistance instead of loans. 


(ii) marry or meet with lovers, artists, painters, singers, 
astrologers, teachers, saints, priests, pimps or prostitutes. 


Taurus 7 119 


VIII House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the IX sign of the Kaalchakra is the VIII house to 
Taurus. Hence the Taurus asc borns may have to face 
difficulties through ancestral properties and lose them by way 
of penalty. They may have to face troubles in the course of 
researches or during life at foreign places. 


Sagittarius is a fiery and common sign. So the Taurus asc borns 
may meet with accidents caused by fire or by animals. They 
may face accidents during air journeys or at traffic-congested 
places. 


It is a house owned by Jupiter. So the Taurus asc borns would 
get unexpected gains due to god's grace or by reputed persons 
of the society or through their children. Taurus asc borns would 
be threatened or fined or punished by law as they would prefer 
illegal means at times. They would donate gold and would 
produce goods in damaged conditions. 


If the VIII house falls in the star of Moola, mled by Ketu, the 
Taurus asc borns will get into illegal activities, will be punished 
by court of law, will involve thernselves in sabotage and 
subversive activities, will be harassed and threatened, will 
blackmail others, will misuse information and will not hesitate 
to steal. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 2 & 5 to 
Taurus. So the Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) suffer due to allergy, will raise controversies in their 
speech and will donate golden goods beyond their 
capacity ¢ 


(ii) meet with accidents in drama and music concerts, will 
get into troubles as matters of fun becoming matters of 
serious nature, will spoil their name, fame and reputation 
in the fields of arts and culture, sports, love marriages, 
artistic performances, prostitution homes, liquor bars 
and places of religious rituals. 


If the VIII house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Taurus asc borns will threaten women, spoil their name, 


120 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


fame and reputation due to women and kidnap and threaten 
women. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will, 


(i) become unconscious, will become inactive, will involve 
in struggles, will suffer due to allergy, will lack 
independence in actions, will face stress, pain, 
amputation and dejection and will face troubles in 


working capacity. 


(ii) face troubles in competitive examination centres, will 
suffer due to medical treatment, negligence of nursing 
staff, side effects of medicine, allergy, and acidity, will 
meet with accidents in manufacturing of medicines and 
will face allegations in lodges. 


If the VIII house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Taurus asc borns will face seizure of their properties by the 
government, damages in properties, will steal government 
documents, will quit from politics, will be punished by the 
government, will meet with fire accidents and involve in criminal 
activities. 

Sun is also the lord of IV house to Taurus. So the Taurus asc 
borns will meet with malfunctioning of productive organs in 
the body, will meet with accidents, will face troubles in studies 
and in the fields of lands, vehicles, properties, household 
appliances, furniture and in big organisations. 


IX House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X sign of the Kaalchakra is the IX house to 
Taurus. Hence, the Taurus asc borns will have changes or 
breaks in their professional life. They will get their fortunes 
only through their professional life. They could excel in their 
professions at out-stations, or at other states or at foreign 
countries. 


It is a movable and earthy sign. Hence the Taurus asc borns 
may have to undergo foreign tours for professional purposes; 


Taurus SS j = ~ “37 


they will improve their research abilities in the course of their 
profession. 


It is a house owned by Saturn. So the Taurus asc borns tend to 
make many changes and agreements in their professions. They 
may have illegal affairs with older women or at their old age. 
Taurus asc borns will study steadily in science education, lack 
needed interest in studies, involve in diagnosis of diseases in 
medical laboratories and will deal in oi] wells and seeds. 


If the IX house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Taurus asc borns will involve in government departments 
of finance, research, higher education, rehgion and endowments 
besides big multi-national organisations. 


Sun is also the lord of IV house to Taurus. So the Taurus asc 
borns will study courses of teacher training, will hold ancestral 
properties, will have properties at foreign countries and imported 
goods, will become trustees of temple properties, will own 
research laboratories, grain fields, automobile service centres, 
will install educational institutions and will be able to get 
properties as donations. 


If the IX house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Taurus asc borns will involve in the fields of water reservoirs, 
boats, agricultural lands, rain water harvesting, ground water, 
wells, drinking water, refrigerators and vehicles. 


Moon is also the lord of II house to Taurus. So the Taurus asc 
borns will think beyond their mental capacity, will get press 
publicity about their happy occasions, publish books on 
education or communication, spread news, show interest in the 
fields of mathematics, exchange properties and have deep 
memory powers. 


If the IX house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, tne 
Taurus asc borns will study agricultural sciences, geology, 
archaeology and mechanical engineering; will become 
politicians, landlords, criminal lawyers, judges or transport 
owners. 


122 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Mars is also the lord of houses 7 & 12to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc bors will, 


(i) face discomfort in lodges, will behave honestly in social 
and voluntary organisations, will make friendships with 
government officials, willremarry, may involve in illegal 
affairs especially with the younger sister of wife. 


(ii) make undue expenditure in their secret affairs, will face 
financial troubles and crisis especially due to new 
professional ventures, will spend on religious rituals, 
will be incapable of liquidating capital and investments 
and will study research oriented education. 


X House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Taurus. 
Hence the Taurus asc borns will generally have job satisfaction. 
They tend to maintain very good public relations. They are fond 
of feasts and festivals; Co-operatives, companies, arbitration 
are some of the possible professional fields for Taurus asc borns. 


X house is a fixed and airy sign; gas, air-planes, helicopters, 
rockets, cleaning machines, air-conditioners and sieves are some 
of the professional fields of Taurus asc borns. 


It is a sign owned by Saturn. So the Taurus asc borns may 
have to face frequent troubles m their professions. Lay-offs, 
lock-outs , shut-downs, and availing long leave and absenteeisms 
are inevitable in their professional lives.'Taurus asc borns will 
become office assistants especially in police, military and 
corporate offices, will come up in their life from lower levels, 
will respect the feelings of downtrodden people and will be 
sellers of old goods. 


If the X house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Taurus asc borns will work with responsible capacity in the 
fields of industries, police, military and administration and will 
have to handle fire in their profession. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 7 & 12to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc bors will, 


Taurus mat eae ——se ——-—* eos 


(i) work in social service and voluntary organisations, will 
become marriage brokers or labour contractors, wilt do 
joint ventures and will represent people in assemblies; 


(ii) do business with secret contacts, will involve in dual 
ventures, will spend for and invest in profession, will 
have secret links through new ventures, will undertake 
research as profession and may do subversive acts as 
profession. 


If the X house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Taurus asc borns will work in prisons or investigation 
departments, will work as translators, wardens in hostels, 
magicians, manufacturers of shoes and abusers of computers 
and will work at international centres of market, trade, banks 
and employments. 


Rahu would act like Jupiter as far as the significations of houses 
are concerned. 


If the X house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Taurus asc borns will become controller of macro 
organisations, child care centres and ancient and national 
monuments will hold honorary posts in banks and will serve in 
gold mines or at mints. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 8 & 11 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) become professional criminals with all kinds of anti 
social activities and will sell old and repaired goods; 


(ii) serve in societies, will enter into agreements with 
societies, will do professions of their choice, will have 
fortunate professional opportunities, will make 
achievements in their professions and will develop their 
respective professional methods. 


XI House: Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Taurus. 
So the Taurus asc borns will be interested in research fields, 
secret planning and subversive activities, investigations and life 


124 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


at foreign countries etc. 


It is a watery sign. Hence the Taurus asc borns are always greedy 
in their ambitions; as it is also a common sign, at times they get 
into dissatisfactions. 


It is a sign ruled by Jupiter. Hence the ambitions of Taurus asc 
borns will be fulfilled with difficulties subsequent to litigations. 
Their high ambitions will be full of encumbrances. They will 
win friendships with sincere and generous, intelhgent people. 
They may expect things to materialise only through legal means. 


If the XI house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
besides its planetary significations, as Jupiter is also the lord 
of houses 8 & 11 to Taurus, the Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) face problems and dissatisfactions in the fields of their 
choice; will be hasty and tension-borne; suffer due to 
vitamin deficiency and will have mental fluctuations in 
the fulfillment of their own desires. 


(ii) become leaders of societies, will enter into agreements 
through societies, will have fortunate opportunities of 
agreements, will make achievements and will introduce 
novel methods in their chosen fields. 


If the XI house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Taurus asc borns will have friendships with untruthful, lazy, 
indisciplined and dishonest people, will get things done in 
improper ways and means and wil! purchase properties with 
encumbrances. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 9 & 10 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will, 


(i) have hnks with social service centres, international 
organisations and higher officials, will show interest in 
rendering voluntary service, will undertake foreign 
journeys of their choice, will study courses of their 
choice and will involve in research fields; 


(ii) hold honorary posts with name and fame and will 
undertake works and ventures of their choice. 


Taurus —_—— 125 


If the XI house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
the Taurus asc borns will win friendships and relationships with 
witty people, will be fond of micro instruments and will like to 
read books of their choice. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 2 & 5 to Taurus. So the 
Taurus asc borns will 


(i) be benefited through speech, will get expected golden 
ornaments and costly articles, will utilize circumstances 
to their own favour and will be profited through friends 
and sons-in-law; 


(ii) have happy relationships, will have sexual pleasures with 
people they love, will enter into peaceful accords and 
wil! show interest in fine arts. 


XII House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Taurus. 
The Taurus asc borns, in the course of years, may have to face 
downward trends in their status, name and fame etc. They may 
have to face very tough and challenging situations in their hfe. 


XII sign is a fiery and movable sign. So the Taurus asc borns 
will be spendthrifts. They will lose their properties and 
belongings on behalf of others and would invest in useless and 
unprofitable ventures. 


It is asign owned by Mars. The Taurus asc borns could never 
get due returns from their investments resulted by extravagant 
expenditures. They will involve in illegal and secret activities, 
will do adulteration, hoardings and smugglings and will work 
in operation theatres, prostitution homes, lodges and 
investigation departments. 


If the Xi] house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Taurus asc borns will show secret interest in illegal and 
subversive activities, will plan secretly and would take secret 
revenges. 

Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 2 & 5 as far as the 
significations of houses are concerned. So the Taurus asc borns, 


126 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) will lose their savings, will suffer due to eye diseases 
and digestion problems, will invest in golden articles 
and will secretly hold black money; 


(ii) will experience breaches in happy relationships, will 
be forced to have sexual pleasures with persons unsuited 
to their choice, will face troubles in mutual agreements 
for peace and would make undue expenditure in the 
fields of arts and culture. 


If the XII house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Taurus asc born will maintain secrecy in romance, will secretly 
marry, will enter into secret agreements with women, will hide 
things and will make secret planning. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Taurus. So the Taurus 
asc borns will, 


(i) become masochists with inferiority complex, will lose 
physical energy, will underestimate their own potential, 
will have dissatisfied relationships, will suffer due to 
malfunctioning of body and allergy, will lack in self- 
interest and enthusiasm, will lack in imaginations and 
will face troubles in all kinds of their activities; 


(ii) get success through secret means, losing consciousness 
through allergic food intake, get transferred in jobs 
as desired, servants leaving them, inability to identify 
diseases, successful chances but with loss potentials. 


If the XII house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Taurus asc borns will keep contacts with the government 
departments of investigations, customs and excise, sales tax, 
auditing, pay and accounts offices, prisons, hospitals especially 
post mortem-wards and departments of seizures and 
punishments. 


Sun is also the lord of XII house to Taurus. So the Taurus asc 
borns will invest in things of their choice, will secretly keep 
belongings and articles in safe custody and will maintain 
excellent functioning of their vehicles. 


Taurus 127 


Gemini 


General nature of the sign Gemini 


Airy sign, common, intelligent, dynamic, instable, quick in 
grasping, shoulders and hands of the body, human, short 
ascension, two-legged sign, masculine, singular, pair of boys, 
the end part of a street, two-storied building, nights, high places, 
mountains, sports ground, communication and information 
offices, press, research centres, book-shelf, acoustics , represents 
Shravana month in Saka and Aani in the Tamil Years, black in 
colour, south east in direction, congested traffic. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF GEMINI 


Derivations from the above mentioned karakas of Gemmi could 
be as under: 


/, Itis an airy sign: Airing self-pride, general awareness. 
research attitude. 


2. Itis a sign of Mercury: Witty, intelligent and fond of 
knowledge, lean in structure, active nerves 


3. It is a Common sign: Frequent changes in nature. 
disobedient, unstable health 


4. Itis the IH sign: Writing skills. imagination, mformation 
and communication, filing evidences. 


In the same manner, the remaining significations could also be 
studied. 


128 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


The sign Gemini extends over three stars leading to the 
following body natures: 


Mrigasira : Owned by Mars - Lean but extra-muscles 
Arudra : Owned by Rahu - Stout with respiratory disorders 
Punarvasu : Owned by Jupiter - Stout but anaemic. 


Mercury is the lord of this sign. It is also the lord of Virgo the 
4th house to Gemini. The combined significations of Mercury 
are as follow: 


I House: Intelligence, Quick in grasping power, Lean and 
beautiful in structure, Estimating the situation, Witty, Quick in 
action, Instability and fluctuations, Mathematics, Calculative, 
Thinking twice before doing once, Neurology, Cunning. 


IV House: The mind and character to find and work with different 
and modem things, machinertes, computer, calculator, printer, 
electrical and electronic goods, lodges, assembling spare parts, 
tiles, lathe works and manufacturing etc. 


The significations of III house of Kaalchakra on Ascendant are: 


1}! House : Recording self-thoughts, courageous thoughts and 
action, ear, nose and sensory organs, blood veins, functiomng 
of neurological system, strength of the body, acting as desired, 
independent thoughts, showing the strength. 


We have got three stars in Gemini. If the asc falls in, 


(i) Mrtgasira, owned by Mars —~ Great achievements, 
struggle for success, vitamin deficiency. 


(ii) Arudra, owned by Rahu - Social thoughts, lesser interest 
in sexual pleasures, differences of opinion between the 
couple. 


(iii)/Punarvasu owned by Jupiter- Self-prestige, more 
interest in partnership ventures, fluctuating relations 
between the couple. 


If the Asc falls in the star Mrigasira, owned by Mars, the Gemini 
asc bom will have self-pride, rough but humorous speech, more 


Gemini 129 


interest in sexual pleasures and diseases caused by excessive 
heat. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Arudra, owned by Rahu, the Gemini 
asc born will have status and authority, appearance as a popular 
personality, very good public relations and different tastes in 
sexual pleasures and may suffer from contagious diseases. 


If the Asc falls mn the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, the 
Gemini asc borns would be industrialists, landlords, owners of 
macro organisations; they may also gain m partnership ventures; 
they may find dissatisfaction m married life; they will have 
status,; prestige and very good relations with theologists. 


II House : Cancer 


Since the sign Cancer, the 4th sign of Kaalchakra is the II house 
to Gemini, the Gemini asc borns would have conversing and 
negotiating skills to deal in house, land, vehicles, machineries 
and properties. 


Since Cancer is a movable sign, the Gemini borns would 
, Improve their talents on conversing; since all watery signs are 
fruitful signs, their oratorical skills would bring fruitful and 
expected results.The Gemini asc borns would always like to 
speak truth. 


Since it is a sign owned by Moon, the Gemini asc borns would 
swiftly express new and innovative ideas. They do not expose 
their talents in conversations. 


III House : Leo 


Since Leo, the V house of the Kaalchakra is the III house to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns are affectionate towards children; 
they gain mental satisfaction in religious matters; they expose 
their mind by writing articles and paintings in the fields of 
religion, astrology etc. 


{II house is a fiery and fixed sign. Hence Gemini asc borns tend 
to suffer from mental dejections, they tend to do things 
aggressively. without proper analysis of the positive and negative 


130 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


reactions. The Gemini asc borns are short-tempered and 
argumentative people, but they carry open minds in their 
expressions. 


Since it is a house owned by Sun, the Gemini asc borns tend to 
show themselves as courageous and mentally strong people. 
They also carry self-pride. 


IV House : Virgo 


Since Virgo, the VI house of the Kaalchakra is the IV house to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns are more interested in their 
education; they tend to learn many languages and in the fields 
of medical, diet, costumes, textiles and chemicals etc., 


Since Virgo is an earthy and common sign, the Gemini asc 
borns tend to help the society with their education; they excel 
in their education despite fluctuations; they become debtors for 
the cause of their education. 


Since Virgo is ruled by Mercury, the Gemini asc borns have 
natural interest in mathematics. 


V House: Libra 


Since Libra, the VII house of the Kaalchakra is the V house to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns tend to gain wisdom and 
knowledge due to persuasions by opposite sex; they have the 
capability to entertain the society through arts and music. 


Libra is a movable and airy sign; so the artistic and cultural 
movements of Gemini asc borns would:Wvays move in the 
path of development, in less than a reasonable time. 


Since it is a house owned by Venus, the lord of houses 5 & 12 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns tend to make extravagant 
expenditures on behalf of their interests in the fields of arts and 
culture; they may also have to face troubles caused by their 
secret enemies. 


~al 
aI 
wm, 


Gemini _ 


VI house : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of the Kaalchakra is the VI sign to Gemini. 
Hence they tend to suffer from stress and pain resulted by sudden 
illnesses and diseases. They may also have to face difficulties 
due to litigations. They also carry a desire to commit suicide 
due to excessive borrowings. 


Since this VI house Scorpio is a watery and fixed sign, the 
Gemini asc born may have to lead a life full of struggles due to 
permanent diseases caused by glands and in private organs. 


Since this house is ruled by Mars, the lord of houses 6 & 11 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc bom would suffer from diseases caused 
by vitamin deficiencies. 


VII House : Sagittarius 


Since Sagittarius, the IX sign of Kaalchakra, is the VII house 
to Gemini; the Gemini asc boms will have very good social 
relationships with teachers, priests, temple trustees, lawyers and 
judges. 


Since this VII house is a common but fiery sign, the Gemini 
asc borns would meet persons with short-temper and wavering 
minds; their friendships would not last long. 


Since this house is owned by Jupiter, the lord of houses 7 & 10 
to Gemini, the Gemini asc borms may lack love and affection 
towards their life-partners and are materialistically interested 
persons and will maintain relationships with many people in 
their profession. 


VIII House : Capricorn 


Since Capricorn, the X house of Kaalchakra, is the VIII house 
to Gemini, the Gemini asc boms would face mental stress in 
their profession; they may also have to meet with accidents in 
their professions. 


The Gemini asc bom tends to face the problems quietly, because 
their VIII house is a movable but an earthy sign. 


This house is owned by Saturn, the lord of houses 8 & 9 to 
132 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Gemini. Hence the Gemimi asc borns would tace ditticulties 
while undertaking long journeys; they may face deadlocks in 
reaching agreements; they would find it difficult to reach their 
destination as desired. 


IX House : Aquarius 


Since Aquarius, the XI house of Kaalchakra is the IX house of 
Gemini, the Gemini asc born are more interested in higher 
education and could study in the fields of their own interest. 
They have a liking for illegal sexual affairs. 


Since this [IX house is an airy and fixed sign, the Gemini asc 
borns tend to gain intelligence and research interest through 
their academic education. 


Since it is a house owned by Saturn, the lord of houses 8 & 9 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns may have breaks in their higher 
education and discontinue their higher studies. 


X House : Pisces 


Since Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra, is the X house to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will not hesitate to undertake 
secret activities like adulteration etc. They gain status and honour 
through two different types of profession. They carry needed 
inclination for research and innovation. 


Since this X house is a common and watery sign, the Gemini 
asc borns will have fluctuations m their professional life. They 
venture in multiple professions in the fields of liquids. 


Since it is a house ruled by Jupiter, the lord of houses 7 & 10 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will excel in partnership deeds. 
But these partnership ventures would have to face breaks. 


XI House : Aries 


Since Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house of 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will get position of chiefs as 
desired by them; they tend to implement their plans immediately 
after assuming responsibilities as chiefs. 


Since it is a movable and fiery sign, the Gemini asc bors are 


— —— 
Gemini = —- —— — OO 


crazy and have a never-ending desire to gain name and fame. 


Since it is a house ruled by Mars, the lord of houses 6 & 11 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will gain success in their life 
only after struggles. 


XII House : Taurus 


Since Taurus, the II sign of the Kaalchakra is the XII house to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns tend to maintain secrecy in their 
investments and would not hesitate to undertake secret activities 
for financial gains. 


Since this XII house is a fixed and earthy sign, the Gemini asc 
borns would like to invest in immovable properties. 


Since it is a house ruled by Venus, the lord of houses 5 & [2 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will lose money and properties 
due to their love affairs. 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF GEMINI UNRELATED TO 
ASCENDANT 


II House ; Cancer 


Cancer is the II house to Gemini. Since it is the IV sign of 
Kaalchakra, the Gemini asc borns could make money out of 
land, vehicles, properties, machinery, agriculture and 
manufacturing. 


This II house is @ watery and movable sign; the income pattern 
of Gemini asc borns will mostly maintain upward trends; the 
income of them would mostly be used for honest purposes. 


Since it is a house of Moon, the income pattern of Gemini asc 
borns wilt have frequent and speedy transactions of money, will 
profit from clear speech and pearl ornaments, will become 
counsellors in financial institutions and will become active 
through financial sources. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Gemini asc borns will be sincere, respectful, honest and 


truthful in financial matters; will deal in jewellery shops, treasury 
and banks. 


134 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 7 & 10 to Gemini. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) be benefited from society, banks, government 
recognition, partnership deeds, spouse and relatives, will 
gain through government subsidy and tax evasion; 


(ii) gain by holding honorary or high posts, through status, 
leadership, administrative capacity , name and fame and 
responsible counselling. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, 
the Gemini asc borns will become misers, will belong to small 
income group, will tell lies in financial matters, will be in 
possession of costly goods and will tend to seize properties and 
belongings of others. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 8 & 9 to Gemini. So the Gemmi 
asc borns will, 


(7) profit through all kinds of anti-social, illegal and criminal 
activities like robbery, thefts, cheating, forgery, 
threatening, murders, kidnappings etc. They will gain 
by accepting bribery m accident wards and mortuary in 
hospitals, insurance claims, magics and wills; 


(ii) gain through ancestral properties, confidence, honesty, 
education, leadership, research, religious service, 
endowments, transplantation, taw, temple properties, 
ancient monuments and life at foreign countries. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Gemini asc boms will gain through greenish stones and 
articles, mimicry and witty speech, micro instruments, 
negotiable instruments and by rendering commentary. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 1 & 4 to Gemini. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) make money with self-thoughts, will always be fond of 
money, will increase their activities with the use of 
money, will increase their status through money and will 
have independent sources of income; 


Gemini "135 


(ii) benefit through education, fruits and vegetables, grain 
fields, farms, education centres, hbraries, lease of ponds 
and water reservoirs. 


III House : Leo 


Leo is the Il sign to Gemini. It is the V house to Kaalchakra. 
Hence the Gemini asc borns tend to write and communicate 
much about religion, arts and culture. Since this HI house is a 
fiery and fixed sign, the Gemini asc boms will show steady, 
serious and stubborn involvenients in the fields of arts and culture 
and are adamant in their re¥gtous practices. 


Leo is a sign ruled by Sun. So the Gemini asc borns will deal 
with statistics, records, orders, informations, communications 
and postal departments of the government. 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Makha ruled by Ketu, the 
Gemini asc bor will forge documents, spread rumours, file 
criminal cases, manipulate accounts and write anonymous 
letters. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 1 & 4, as far 
as the significations of houses are concerned. So the Gemini 
asc bors will, 


(i) record their self thoughts, will have courageous thoughts 
and acts, will have proper functioning of neurological 
and sensory organs including blood vessels, will do 
things as they like with the use of their physical strength, 
will carry independent opinions and thoughts and will 
like to exhibit their strength; 


(ii) lose physical energy, will be certified for education, will 
sell vegetables and fruits, livestock, nursery, stationeries 
and papers used in educational institutions, newspapers, 
vessels, utensils, furniture, groceries, hardware, 
equipments and accessories used in the construction of 
bridges and would become real estate brokers. 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by Venus, 
the Gemini asc borns will happily get information, 
communication, letters, agreements, brokerage, script writings 


136 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


and film editing: they would be able to capitalize their skill of 
writing and imagination. 

Venus is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Gemmmi. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) deal and write about stock market, sports, politics, arts 
and hterature, religion and Vedic rituals, will paint with 
pure imagination, will have intelligence, will have 
attractive physique and will perform obscene dances. 


(ii) have information through secret sources, will lose 
physical energy, will miss the evidences and savings 
certificates, will recerve documents for outstanding, will 
get needed information for secret plans, wil! permanently 
lose outstanding and will experience permanent 
separation of person who is already and temporarily 
separated from the family. 


If the 3:4 house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
besides its planetary karakas, as it is also the lord of the II] 
house to Gemini, the Gemimi asc borns will have needed press 
publicity, will use intelligence in writing, will express own ideas, 
will participate in debates and discussions, will write to boost 
the confidence and courage of the readers and will have stable 
mind with courage and confidence. 


IV House : Virgo 


Virgo the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Gemmi. 
Hence the Gemini asc borns will mostly live in rented-houses; 
they may face litigations in their properties; loans and 
borrowings against lands, vehicles and properties are inevitable. 


Since this IV sign is an earthy and common sign, the Gemmi 
asc bors tend to gain profitable returns from their lands, vehicles 
and properties. They tend to make changes in their lands, vehicles 
and properties. 


Mercury is the lord of this house. So the Gemini asc borns 
could hold double natured lands, vehicles and properties and 
could be called as landlords.'They may get ancestral properties. 


Gemini 13 


If the 4 house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Gemini asc borns wil! live in or near government buildings 
and government offices, will be in possession of government 
vehicles and could handle government maciiinery, will encroach 
village common lands, will run educational institutions with 
due government recognition and will deal with government 
departments of vehicles, lands, forest and hills, grains, civil 
supply godown, water tanks, wells and ponds. 


Sun is also the lord of III honse to Gemini. So the Gemini asc 
borns will get press publicity about their transfers and place of 
postings, will publish books on general knowledge, will leave 
their native places, will confidently involve in the production 
processes, will be knowledgeable persons and will behave 
according to their standards of education. 


If the 4" house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Gemimi asc borns will deal with water reservoirs, agricultural 
lands, dams, wells, ponds, boats, watery fruits and vegetables, 
rain water harvesting, refrigerators and vehicles. 


Moon is also the lord of II house to Gemini. So the Gemini asc 

borns will purchase costly and valuable articles, jewels and 

bungalows and will tend to keep things in excess at their personal 
possession and custody. 


If the 4th house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Gemini asc borns will show arrogance towards their education; 
will show strong interests in lands, vehicles, automobiles, 
machinery, agricultural farms, machinery for production of 
chemicals and fertilizers and may own huge industries. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Gemmi. So the Gemini 
asc borns will, 


(i) have centres of competitive examinations, will organise 
medical camps, own medical laboratories, will do 
catering, tailoring, manufacturing of medicines and 
medical equipments, will finance against properties, will 
become accountants in purchase departments or 
milkmen in societies and will become lessors; 


138 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(ii) accumulate properties with greedily, will construct 
bungalows, will construct with assistance from societies, 
will purchase goods of their choice, will live in fortunate 
houses, will receive gifts as token of their successes, 
will make professional achievements and will have 
frequent visits of friends of their choice. 


V House: Libra 


Libra the VII sign to Kaalchakra is the V house to Gemini. 
Hence the Gemini asc borns have a chance to give birth to twins. 
They would love their life-partners very much. 


This V house is an airy and movable sign. So the Gemini asc 
borns will have intelligent and beautiful children; they will love 
people with self-pride. 


Since this V house is ruled by Venus, the Gemini asc boms will 
have to make huge expenditures on their iovers or daughters. 
The Gemini asc borns will be interested in the fields of arts, 
culture and cinema and may perform obscene roles; they may 
also be popular politicians, orators and astrologers. 


If the 5"“house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Gemini asc borns will be arrogant during copulations, will be 
known for their obscene styles im the fields of arts and culture, 
will practice martial arts and will not have faith in god. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Gemini. So the Gemini 
asc borns will, 


(i) run competitive centres for arts, willbecome 
gynaecologists, nurses, costume designers, caterers, 
producers of natural medicines, laboratory technicians 
and workers in lodges, cmema halls and would reside 
in lodges. 


(ii) learn arts greedily, will construct lodges and branches 
of union, will venture jointly with societies, will have 
sex with people of their choice, will enjoy fortunate 
opportunities, will always remain in the company of 
joyful friends and will make achievements in the 
production of livestock. 


Gemini ~ "43 


Ifthe V house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Gemini asc borns will have sex with foreigners, will involve in 
gambling and prostitution at foreign places, and may become 
swimmers and sprinters. 


Rahu would act as Jupiter as far as the significations of houses 
are concerned. 


If the 5th house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Gemini asc borns will have faith in god, will be truthful in 
their love affairs, will adhere to religious practices and rituals, 
will become leaders in the fields of religion and politics and 
will perform arts with intuition power. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 7 & 10 to Gemini. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) have cordial social relationships, will hve in government 
quarters, will recerve musical instruments as donation 
from the government, will enter into partnerships, will 
marry the lover and will associate with voluntary 
organisations; 


(ii) hold honour, name, fame and status as eminent artists, 
will become officers with administrative capacity, will 
manufacture artistic goods, will be responsible for 
temples that were undertaken by the government and 
will hold posts of easy jobs. 


VI House : Scorpio 


Scorpio the VIII sign of Kaalchakra, is the VI house to Gemini. 
Hence the Gemini asc borns will gain success only after 
struggles. They could get double the amount as loans beyond 
their expectations. 


Since it is a watery and fixed sign, the Gemini asc borns will 
have increased borrowings for their litigations and medical 
treatments. Their court cases, loans would last relatively 
permanently. 


Since it is a house owned by Mars, the lord of houses 6 & 11 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns are to struggle for success in all 


140 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


walks of life. They will suffer due to muscle pains and high 
fever; will serve in industries, will become manual labourers, 
cooks, tailors and producers of medicine and food. 


If the 6 house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Gemini asc borns will serve in huge industries or banks, 
will become medical officers, lawyers, presidents of feasts and 
functions and bank cashiers, will suffer due to cholesterol in 
blood, will produce nutritious tablets and would be able to raise 
loans with recommendations of popular persons of the society. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 7 & 10 to Gemini. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) serve in social service, voluntary and labour welfare 
organisations, will become labour contractors or agents 
to government officials and will act as marriage brokers; 


(ii) join in permanent service, will hold posts with easy jobs, 
will become officers known for administrative capacity 
to earn narne, fame and status with promotion avenues. 


If the 6n house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Gemini asc borns will have sexual relationships with people 
belonging to lower strata, will be insincere and unfaithful in 
love affairs, may become prostitutes, security guards in temple 
ponds or priests, will perform sober roles in the fields of arts 
and will have lazy children. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 8 & 9 to Gemini. So the Gemini 
asc bors will, 


(i) render hard labour under severe working conditions and 
dirty circumstances; will repair old goods and will have 
heavy workloads. 


(ii) serve as teachers, priests, researchers, scientists and in 
the fields of intemational trade, endowments, courts, 
panchayat boards, ancient monuments, temple tax 
collection offices and temple trusts. 


If the 6n house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Gemini asc boms will serve at commercial centres or as 


Gemini “441 


accountants, labour contractors, fax collectors, nurses, 
compounders, office clerks, neurologists, computer operators 
and printers and in hire-purchase or instalment agencies. 


Mercury is also the lard of houses 1 & 4 to Gemini. So the 
Geinini asc borns will, 


(i) work with self-thoughts, improve their working capacity, 
will have successful acts, will have proper functioning 
of digestive and neurological system, will tend to depend 
on others in functioning, will lack in efficiency and will 
suffer due to loss of power of immunity; 


(ii) have excessive power of immunity in the body, will serve 
in the fields of lands, buildings, housing, vehicles and 
machinery, will become caterers, maintenance staff of 
livestock, labourers on daily wages, school teachers, 
manufactures of house hold app} iances and furniture and 
stage managers for dance and musical events. 


VII House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the [X sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to 
Gemini. Hence the Gemini asc borns may become polygamists. 
They would have plump wives, belonging to different states. 


It is a common and fiery sign. Hence the Gemini asc borns may 
have immoral spouses and opponents. They will have fluctuating 
relationships with their spouses, partners, opponents and persons 
they meet in the course of life, functionings of sensory organs 
and kidney in their body will be that of fluctuating in nature. 


Since it is a house owned by Jupiter, the lord of houses 7 & 10 
to Gemini, the Gemmi asc borns are money minded in their 
matrimonial affairs. They tend to gain partnerships with socially 
popular personalities and good natured people. They will have 
understanding, calm and responsible spouses, partners and 
business customers. 


If the 7: house falls ta the star of Moola, owned by Ketu, the 
Gemini asc borns will have dissatisfactions and dejections in 
their married life. They will have criminal minded spouses, 
business partners and customers. 


142 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Ketu would act like Mercury as far as the house significations 
are concerned. Mercury is the lord of houses 1 & 4 to Gemini. 
So the Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) have collective thoughts and joint efforts, will listen to 
others, will suffer due to contagious diseases and at 
abdominal regions of the body, will become weak due 
to loss of power of immunity, will lack independence in 
actions, will invite competitions and oppositions due to 
their activities and will become well known persons; 


(ii) marry among relatives, residents in the same compound 
or opposite houses and caretakers of house, land, 
organisations and vehicles. 


If the 7i house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Gemini asc borns will have attractive spouse and business 
partners, will often meet with happy and joyful persons and 
women as customers 1n their businesses. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Gemini. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) often meet with their lovers, artists, painters, singers, 
astrologers, teachers, religious servants, priests, 
prostitutes and pimps; 


(ii) often meet with secret planners, thieves, people who 
threaten them by knowmmg their secrets and who lead to 
losses to them and people who assist them im 
investments. 


If the 7 house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Gemini asc borns Will have spouse or business partners who 
are authoritative with self-pride, will often meet with officers 
of public welfare departments. 


Sun is also the lord of 3rd house to Gemini. So the Gemini asc 
borns will get press publicity about the assistance received by 
them, will publish books on public service, will meet with 
advertisers, will spend their energy for the cause of others, will 
write recommendation letters and petitions for others, will Work 


143 


Gemini 


as registrars, will gain confidence through others and will have 
spouse or business partners from neighbours. 


VIII House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X Sign of Kaalchakra, is the VIII house to 
Gemini. The Gemini asc borns may have to meet with accidents 
at their places of profession; they may also have to serve with 

excessive workloads; they could come up in their life only by 

way ofhard work. 


Since it is a movable and earthy sign, the Gemini asc borns will 
be troubled by natural calamities. 


Since it is a house owned by Saturn, the lord of houses 8 & 9 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will have to face a series of 
problems. They will be humiliated, annihilated, threatened, 
alleged and sued with false charges and they may abscond 
sometimes; they will behave like cowards; they will suffer due 
to forgetfulness and frequent fears of death; they may meet with 
cruel accidents and they will involve m modification old goods. 


If the VIII house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, 
the lord of III house to Gemini, the Gemini asc borns could get 
into troubles by sudden communications from government; they 
would also be troubled by anonymous letters. Their properties 
may be seized by the government; they may steal government 
documents, will quit politics, will involve in criminal activities, 
will meet with fire accidents and will be punished by the 
govemment. 


Sun is also the lord of III house to Gemini. So the Gemini asc 
borns will get notorious press publicity, will publish books on 
criminology, spread rumours, make mistakes im accounting, 
suffer due to forgetfulness, misplace belongings, suffer due to 
wear and tear of body organs, will have adverse remarks in 
service and will face troubles in the service as clerks and in 
communications. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Gemini asc borns will suffer due to mental depression, 
forgetfulness and unconsciousness, lack proper knowledge, meet 


144 A Strologics of kaalchakra 


with accidents in water, lose.their mental balance and will 
involve in anti-social thoughts and activities. 


Moon is also the lord of II house to Gemini. So the Gemini asc 
borns will enjoy frequent income, clear speech, pearl ornaments 
and silver articles; they will be consultants in financial 
companies, orators; their acts will be quick through money. 


If the 8n house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Gemini asc borns will involve with quarrels, riots, struggles, 
terrorism, seizures, false allegations, police and military actions, 
use of weapons, bomb blasts, cruel accidents, forgery, cheating, 
suicide squads, murders and robbery; they will be troubled by 
brothers. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Gemini. So the Gemini 
asc borns will, 


(i) have problems in competitive examination centres, 
would suffer due to medical treatments, negligence of 
nursing staff, side effects of medicines, allergy and 
acidity, will meet with accidents during preparation of 
medicines and will face discomforts in lodges; 


(ii) struggle with greediness, will be harassed in lodges, will 
misappropriate in clubs, will face no-confidence motious 
in societies, will experience the fortunes turning as 
misfortunes, will have unfortunate employment 
opportunities and will be dejected in the fields of their 
choice. 


IX House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Gemini. 
Hence the Gemini asc barns will gain success in their research 
efforts; they may face hurdles in undertaking foreign journeys. 


Since this house falls in an airy and fixed sign, the Gemini asc 
borns may undertake frequent air journeys; they will show keen 
interest in their research efforts. 


Since it is a sign owned by Saturn, the lord of 8 & 9 to Gemini, 
the Gemini asc borns will have to face hurdles and hardships in 


Gemini 145 


all their research efforts. Gemini asc borns would be able to 
steadily study science. They may lack needed mental inchnation 
for higher education; and they could study about oil wells, natural 
gas and medical research. 


Jf the 9th house falls in the star of Dhanishta; owned by Mars, 
the Gemini asc borns would win in competitions in the fields 
of research, higher education and contests for honorary posts. 
They may study agriculture, geology, mechanical engineering, 
history, archaeology and criminal law; they may become criminal 
judges, transport owners, head masters and politicians. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Gemini. So the Gemini 
asc bors will, 


(i) serve as supervisors in competitive examination centres, 
will suffer due to hereditary disorders, excessive intake, 
allergy, acidity, and the side effects of medicines, will 
study nursing courses and medical research, will make 
joint efforts in medical fields and will have illegal affairs 
in research fields. 


(ii) study diploma courses, will hold honorary posts with 
easy jobs, name and fame, will make success and 
achievements in research ventures, will always remain 
joyful, will gain in all fields, will have cordial 
relationships in societies, will get fortunate opportunities 
of accords, will be able to find the right way of doing 
things and will be fond of fatty food. 


If the 9® house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Gemini asc borns will become researchers of drugs and 
intoxication, will become surgeons of transplantation and fitting 
artificial organs, will associate with religious research centres 
and internationalfriendship clubs and will teach foreign 
languages. 


Rahu would act like Jupiter as far as the significations of houses 
are concerned. 


If the 9th house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Gemini asc borns will have higher education in the field of 


146 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


teaching, will become financial controller, administrators of 
temples, trustees, exporters and ambassadors and will modify 
the fields of religion, law and social discipline. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 7 & 10 to Gemini. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) face discomforts in lodges, will detach from illegal 
affairs, will behave in a disciplined manner in social 
service institutions, will remarry, will have illegal affair 
with the sister of spouse and will make friendships with 
government officials; 


(ii) work in the fields of transport, communication, embassy, 
international trade, electricity, water supply, teaching, 
research fields, religious endowments, courts of justice, 
panchayat boards, ancient national monuments, oil 
wells, gold mines and trusts. 


X House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Gemini. 
Hence the Gemini asc borns will do their profession in the fields 
of research centres, investigation & customs departments, 
adulteration, secret planning, shoe makers, hospitals and imports 
and exports etc. They may work in foreign countries. 


Since the X sign is a common but watery sign, the Gemini asc 
borns may undertake business through sea ports, work in the 
fields like transport, boats and ships, may do fishing and may 
use liquids in their profession. 


Since it is a house of Jupiter, the lord of houses 7 & 10 to 
Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will excel in partnership ventures; 
they may have to face unexpected breaks in their professional 
life. They will become responsible officers in big organisations, 
will serve in child welfare organisations, currency printing 
division of banks, gold mines, national monuments and will 
hold honorary posts. 


If the 1 0" house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
besides its planetary significations, Jupiter being the lord of 
houses 7 & 10 to Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will, 


Gemini 


(i) work in the social service or national service 
organisations, w1!! enter into partnerships, will become 
labour contractors or marriage brokers and will represent 
{he nation in international bodies; 


(ii) hold responsible but easy posts wilh name and fame 
and will serve in customs and sales or income tax 
departments; 


If the 10" house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Salurn, 
the Gemini asc borns will work as assistants in office and would 
come up in their life from the lower level especially in the 
departments of police or military; they will respect socially 
downtrodden people and they may sell old goods. 


Salurn is also the lord of houses 8 & 9 to Gemim. So the Gemim 
asc horns will, 


(i) be professional criminals of all varieties and will sell 
and modify old goods; 


(ii) work .at social service institulions, voluntary 
organisations, offices of international trade, marriage 
registrar office, universilies, colleges, communication 
and information departments, transport offices, religious 
institutions, trusts, courts, panchayat boards, ancien! and 
nalional monuments, electricily departments, water 
supplies department, oil wells, mines, employment 
exchanges and will become professors, judges, 
negotiators, registrars and posts with honour and respect. 


If the 10m house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
the Gemini ase borns will do business, will deal with micro 
and measurement inslruments, papers, slationeries, books, 
calculators, computers, wires and rods and will gam from 
greenish articles. 


Mercury is also the lard of houses 1 & 4 lo Gemini. So the 
Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) work with self-ideas and thoughts, will become over 
active, will become industrialist, will do respectful 
independent acts, will suffer due to allergy, will improve 


148 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


their physical strength and will make suitable changes 
in their profession; 


(ii) manufacture goods, will work as agriculturalists, 
construction workers, carpenters and electricians, will 
work in the fields of automobiles, cleaning, water tanks, 
fertilizers, boilers, farms, fruit gardens and godowns. 


XI House : Aries 


Aries, the I sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Gemini. So 
the Gemini asc boms will Jead in all fields of life through self 
efforts. They have the quality of leadership; they will show their 
cleverness in pohtics. 


Since the XI house falls in a fiery and movable sign, the Gemini. 
asc borns are adamant in nature; they never believe in religious 
rituals and conventions. They are more ambitious in fulfilling 
their personal desires. 


This house is owned by Mars. Hence the Gemini asc borns 
will always carry the spirit of competition and will be forcibly 
fond of success. The Gemini ase borns will have friendships 
and relationships with sincere people, will gain success in desired 
things after struggles and will be greedy and arrogant. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Gemini asc borns will purchase properties with litigations or 
encumbrances; they tend to opt for and would expect things in 
illegal means and they would carry on with criminal activities. 
They will have friendships and relationships with criminals. 


Ketu would act like Mercury as far as the significations of 
houses are concerned. Mercury Is the lord of houses I & 4. So 
the Gemini asc borns will, 


(i) always think about themselves, will have a high 
percentage of vitamins, will show happy relationships, 
will be selfish with self-pride, will have independent 
opinions, will have imagination and will make new 
changes in their activities, will have a high sense of taste 
and will have proper body functioning. 


Gemini 149 


(ii) purchase things of choice and will purchase properties 
with encumbrances; their vehicles and their belongings 
will get damaged. 


If the 11“ house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Gemini asc borns will have friendships and relationships with 
happy and joyful persons and they would always expect happy 
and joyful events. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Gemini. So the 
Gemini ase borns will; 


(i) have happy and joyful relationships, will marry persons 
of their love, will enter into mutual agreements and will 
show interest in the fields of arts and culture; 


(ii) enjoy happiness in secret contacts, will invest in the 
fields of their choice, will explicitly express hidden 
things, will have secret interests through friends and will 
gain success in the research fields. 


If the 11* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
lord of III house to Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will have 
highly selfish desires and would fulfil them through public 
relations. They will be part of government bodies, societies, 
friendship clubs, co-operative centres and they will be awarded 
with gold medals, mementos and subsidies by the government 
and they will associate with the feasts, festivals and monuments 
of the government. 


Sun is also the lord of the 3 ™ house to Gemini. So the Gemini 
asc borns will increase their energy, will have press publicity 
about their good tidings, enter mto sales agreements and 
commumications, write books, receive messages, verify accounts 
and will iniprove power of memory. 


XII House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra, is the XII house to Gemini. 
So the expenditures of Gemini asc borns will in a way end up 
as investments; they will do very well im their second profession; 
they tend to conceal gold and other valuables; they may gain 
from hidden treasures. __ 


150 ~~ Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since it is a fixed and earthy sign, the Gemini asc borns.tend to 
make long term investments of fruitful returns inspite of delays 


It is a house of Venus, the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Gemini. The 
Gemini asc borns will face dejections in their efforts to help 
others; they may be cheated by opposite sex. They will have 
secret activities in sexual relationships, will secretly marry, will 
enter into secret agreements with women and will tend to hide 
things. 

If the 12m house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
lord of IIT house to Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will invest 
on commercial and business ventures. They may also involve 
in the government departments of investigations; customs, 
excise, Sales tax, auditing, prisons, hospitals, postmortem wards. 
punishments and seizures. 


Sun is also the lord of 3:4 house to Gemini. So the Gemini asc 
borns will lose their memory and physical energy, will get press 
publicity about their sorrow, will face breach of agreements and 
cominunication, will make mistakes in accountmg and will sell 
thmgs especially books. 


If the 12m house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
lord of II house to Gemini, the Gemini asc borns would go on 
investing their money. They will make investments quickly, will 
undertake voyage, will hoard liquid articles and will have 
pleasant bed comforts. 


Moon is also the lord of II house to Gemini. So the Gemini asc 
borns will lose their savings, suffer due to eye diseases and 
indigestion, invest in gold articles and will possess black money. 


If the 12m house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, 
the lord of house 6 & 11 to Gemini, the Gemini asc borns will 
involve in money lending and would get reasonable returns from 
it. They would also involve in adulteration, smuggling, hoarding, 
secret, illegal and subversive activities, will work in prostitution 
homes, lodges or in investigation departments. 


Gemini a ag 


Mars is also the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Gemini. So the Gemini 
asc borns will, 


(i) gain secret success, will fall unconscious due to allergic 
food, will change service of their choice, will suffer due 
to inability to diagnose the diseases and will gain success 
after making undue expenditure for the same; 


(ii) have secret activities in societies, will face breach of 
agreements in societies, will face troubles in fortunate 
opportunities, will fail in achieving and will keep new 
and modern methods in secrecy. 

With the above examples, readers are requested to interpret the 
remaining significations of the respective houses to Gemini, to 


get a wider perspective to provide general predictions for the 
Gemini asc borns. 


152 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Cancer 


General nature of the sign Cancer 


It is a watery, movable, feminine, calm, even, fully beneficial 
sign. Multi-legged, silent, fast understanding, developing, short 
ascension sign. Lodges, agricultural fields, gardens, grain stor- 
ages, education, educational institutions , complexes, compound 
houses, crab figured, first part of the lane, morning period, south 
in direction, white in colour. Punarvasu 4, Pushyam I, 2, 3, 4 
and Aslesha 1, 2, 3, 4.It is the 4th sign of the Zodiac, owned by 
the Moon. Aashada month in Saka and Aadi month in Tamil 
calendars. 


First let us begin with the Asc-related matters of Cancer in 
general. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF CANCER 


1. Itis a Watery sign: Calm and quiet as deep water, 
wisdom, not exposing their true talents, excellence, 
flexible to circumstances, never inclined to have a 
prolonged stay at any single place. 


2. Itisahouse of Moon: Fast in thoughts and action, deep 
thoughts. 


3. Itisa movable sign: Developing nature of either good 
or bad qualities. 


4. It is the fourth sign of Zodiac: Capacity to produce in 
the interested fields of lands, vehicles, properties, 
machinery and education. 


In the same manner, the remaining significations could also be 
studied. 


The sign Cancer lasts for three stars leading to the following 
body natures : 


Punarvasu : Owned by Jupiter- Stout body with fat and water 
content. 


Pushyam : Owned by Saturn - Stout with rough body and skin. 
Aslesha :-Owned by Mercury— Lean and stiff nerves. 

The sign Cancer is ruled by Moon: 

The Ascendant significations of Moon are: 


Calm in appearance, quick in actions, confusions, static, actions 
that are not continuous, excessive water content in the body, 
thoughts, avoiding responsibilities, accepting things, dependent 
on others, not conscious about status. 


Cancer is the IV sign of Kaalchakra. The ascendant 
sigmifications of the 4th house would play a vital role in the 
determination of the character of the Cancer asc borns. 


IV House on ASC : 


Production with own ideas and self-thoughts, courageous acts, 
heart, lungs, kidney and other productive organs of the body, 
functioning of the body, excessive production in the body, 
independent purchases, increasing of strength, desired actions. 


If the ascendant falls mn the star of Punarvasu, owned by Jupiter, 
the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Cancer, the Cancer asc borns would 
be flexible to circumstances, calm and thoughtful 1n nature and 

fond of education, faithful m moral values, fast and successful 

in actions in all walks of life. 


If the ascendant falls m the star of Pushyam, owned by Saturn, 
the lord of houses 7 & 8 to Cancer, the Cancer asc bonis will 


154 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


be slow in their actions, pessimistic in nature, indisciplined, 
fearful, doubtful, unhesitant to use dirty places, submissive to 
slavery, loss of memory and confusion, would be willing to share 
others’ sorrows. 


If the ascendant falls in the star of Aslesha, owned by Mercury, 
the lord of houses 3 & 12 to Cancer, the Cancer asc borns will 
be fond of frequent changes, fast and quick in actions, sharp, 
intelligent, excel in education especially in mathematics, 
sufficient imagination to write stories and songs, would not be 
inclined to reside in any one place and talented in business 
dealings. 


II House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign to Kaalchakra is the II house to Cancer; so the 
Cancer asc borns will mainly converse about arts, literature, 
culture, astrology, religion, politics, sports, children, gambling 
etc. 


Leo is a fiery and fixed sign. Hence the speech of Cancer asc 
borns is static but rough; mostly they will not respect others 
and tend to hurt others in their conversations. 


It is a sign ruled by Sun. Hence the tone of the Cancer asc 
borns tend to be authoritative and they would talk more about 
politics and office administration. 


ITI House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign to Kaalchakra is the HI house to Cancer; so 
the Cancer asc borns will have self-confidence and courage; 
they will often have to face litigations and court cases; suffer 
from diseases in nerves and veins. 


This sign is a common and earthy sign; So the Cancer asc borns 
would have frequent mental changes and would come down for 
the sake of love and affection with members of family. 


This house is ruled by Mercury, the lord of houses 3 & 12 to 
Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns will mostly possess double 
mind and an inclination towards writings and mathematics. They 
are more interested in secret notes, letters and correspondence. 


Cancer 155 


IV House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign to Kaalchakra is the IV house to Cancer. So 
the Cancer asc borns may have to live in a joint family. They 
usually live with their relatives, near and dears. They are more 
inclined towards social education. 


Libra is a movable and atry sign; so they will excel in education 
and may not like to reside in the same place for long. 


It is a house of Venus the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Cancer, the 
Cancer asc borns will excel in primary education. 


V House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VII sign to Kaalchakra is the V house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc borns may have to face defamation and 
disrespect in love affairs. Their love rnainly aims for Just. In a 
few cases when cuspal interlinks are also indicative, they may 
become incestuous. 


This house is a watery and fixed sign; so the Cancer asc borns 
tend to show interest in arts and culture, believe in violent politics 
and would like obscene and filthy dances. 


It is a house ruled by Mars, lord of houses 5 & 10 to Cancer, 
the Cancer asc borns will not hesitate to involve in violent 
politics, gambling and prostitution: will like martial arts. 


VI House : Sagittartus 


Sagittarius, the IX Sign to Kaalchakra is the VI house to 
Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns will be inclined to study law. 
They may have to file suits against educational institutions and 
illegal affairs. They may suffer from hereditary diseases and 
piles. 


This house is a fiery and common sign; so the Cancer asc borns 
will suffer from multiple diseases caused by excessive body 
heat. They will also suffer from swellings, growths and burning 
sensations. 


It is a house owned by Jupiter, the ruler of houses of 6 & 9 to 


156 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Cancer, the Cancer asc borns will have stout body with 
excessive fat; they may have to face legal proceedings often. . 


VII House : Capricorn 


Capricom, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc borns may like the company of self- 
entrepreneurs and to act for professional gains; may become 
dissatisfied in married life. 


Capricorn is a movable and earthy sign; so the Cancer asc 
borns will get professional gains from society. Their professional 
friendships will last long. 


Capricorn is ruled by Saturn, the lord of houses 7 & 8 to 
Cancer. So the Cancer asc born may have to face problems 
due to doubtful circumstances. 


VIII House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc boms will get mto various kinds of troubles 
due to their greedy nature. They may make their elder brothers/ 
friends into enemies. Their reputation may be spoilt by their 
daughters-in-law or sons-in law. 


Since Aquarius is a fixed and airy sign, the Cancer asc borns 
will have the mind to face their life full of struggles. They are 
also adept in creating problems and to spread rumors at a windy 
speed. 


Aquarius is ruled by Saturn, the lord of houses 7 & 8 to Cancer; 
so the Cancer asc bors tend to create and develop enmities. 
IX House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the 1X house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc boms may have an inchnation to study 
research education, and about international trade and law; have 
religious faith. 


Pisces is a common and watery sign. Hence the Cancer asc 
boms may face delays in getting due returns to their academic 


Cancer 157 


qualifications. They may undertake foreign journeys and 
pilgrimage. 


Since Pisces is. ruled by Jupiter, the lord of houses 6 & 9 to 
Cancer, the Cancer asc boms may be identified in the fields of 
law, religion and finance. 


X House: Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the X house of Cancer. 
Hence the Cancer asc borns will gain status by holding high 
posts with power and authority. 


Since Aries is a movable and fiery sign, the Cancer asc borns 
will prosper through profession; though they may have to hold 
tension-prone‘posts. 


Since Aries is owned by Mars, the mler of houses 5 & 10 to 
Cancer, the Cancer asc bom will shine in the fields of pohtics 
and films. 


XI House : Taurus 


Taurus, the I] sign of the Kaalchakra is the XI house of Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc boms will be greedy in earning gold and 
money. 


Taurus is a fixed and earthy sign; so the Cancer asc borns tend 
to hold their money and valuables permanently. They would get 
satisfied when their earnings are used for meaningful purposes. 


Taurus is a house of Venus, the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc boms will not hesitate to hold properties 
with litigations or encumbrances; they may own lands, vehicles 
and marriage halls. 


XII House : Gemini 


Gemaini, the [II sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Cancer. 

So the Cancer asc boms will have secret correspondences, secret 
registrations, benamti businesses and properties, black money 

and secret lockers etc 


Gemini is a common and airy sign; so the Cancer asc borns 


158 Astralogics of kaalchakra 


may face difficulties in their mvestments and may like to spend 
money on long-journeys. 


Gemini is a house of Mercury, the lord of houses 3 & 12 to 
Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns may have to abscond from 
their native place, may have to live underground and without 
being recognised by others. 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF CANCER UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT 


II House : Leo 


Leo, the V house to Kaalchakra ts the II house to Cancer. Hence 
the Cancer asc borns could get income from sources, such as 
politics, arts, culture, devotion, region, wisdom, excellence, 
romance and through children. 


Since Leo is a fiery sign, the Cancer asc borns are spendthrifts 
and could save only a tiny part of their income. 


Since Leo is a fixed sign, however little they save out of their 
income, the Cancer asc borns could save their money in the 
fonn of valuables like gold, silver, diamonds, and costly artistic 
goods. 


Since Leo is ruled by Sun, the Cancer asc bors could gain 
from government sources, finance companies, government 
savings schemes, subsidies and through sale of stamps and 
documents. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, as per 
planetary significations, the Cancer asc borns could make 
money through their clever, diplomatic and controversial speech, 
rumour-mongering, political cunningness and through criminal 
means such as sale of narcotics. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, which 
would act like Mercury, the lord of 3rd & [2th houses to Cancer, 
the Cancer asc borns, 


(i) could make money through intelligent speech and 
arguments, writing skills and from profitable 


Cancer 159 


information, cheques, secret advances, motivations in 
earnings and by expressing personal opinions, 
courageous acts and by changing themselves for the sole 
purpose of earning money. 


(ii) may earn from secret plans and activities, through money 
lending and from past savings, by hiding articles, by 
losing organs and by regaining articles that were lost. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by Venus, 
as per planetary significations, the rich Cancer asc borns may 
earn from gold and valuables, silk and cosmetics, costly artistic 
goods, joyous and eloquent speech and through film-financing 
etc. 


Since Venus is the lord of 4th & 11th houses to Cancer, the 
Cancer asc borns, 


() may earn from excessive production of energy in the 
body, education and educational centres, libraries, fruits, 
vegetables, crop-fields, farms and by taking lease of 
ponds and water reservoirs. 


(ti) will earn greedily, happily and comfortably, through 
romance, unions and societies, with good fortunes, 
through successes, wins, achievements, by rendering 
pleasures and through friends. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Cancer asc born may earn through their skills of speech 
and by disclosing truth. 


III House’: Virgo 


Virgo, the V1 house of Kaalchakra is the II house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc borns will win htigations and make profits 
out of their writings and agreements. 


Virgo is an earthy sign; so the Cancer asc borns are flexible in 
their negotiations. 


Virgo is a common sign; so the Cancer asc borns will face 
fluctuations in their efforts for transfers, communications, 
agreements and writings. 


160 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since Mercury is the lord of this sign which is the lord of houses 
3 & 12 to Cancer, the Cancer asc borns may serve as document 
writers, registrars, clerks, postmen, communication agents, 
electricity lne-men, ambassadors, advertisers, tax collectors, 
proof readers, brokers and journalists etc (3rd house). 


The Cancer asc borns may invent micro instruments through 
secret research, may work in the fields of secret notes, 
documents, accounts, income-expenditure statements, 
agreements, adulteration, photographs, marketing and sales. (12 
house matters). 


If the 3 house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
which jis the lord of 2nd house to Cancer, the Cancer asc borns 
will have contacts with government orders, posts & telegraphs, 
telecommunications, information and broadcasting etc; make 
financial gains through their excellence in writings and 
publications. They tend to express truth in their writings. 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, which 
is the lord of ascendant, the Cancer asc borns are quick in their 
communication skills; write with excellent imagination, write 
entertaining stories and excel in rendering commentaries. 


The Cancer asc borns tend to record their thoughts; they tend 
to have independent thoughts and do as they wish. 


If the 3:4 house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
lord of houses 5 & I0 to Cancer, the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) excel in writing articles about pohtics, sports, arts & 
culture, romance, religion and wisdom. 


(ii) have ability to act as a counselor in responsible posts; 
may excel in their profession through advertisements; 
may also receive orders for honorary posts and wide 
appreciations for their administrative skills; may do 
business by utilizing their status. 


Cancer 161 


IV House : Libra 


Libra, the VII house of Kaalchakra 1s the IV house to Cancer. 
Hence the Cancer asc borns will mostly live in the front part of 
a street and in an airy place. They live in colonies. 


Libra, being an airy sign, leads the Cancer asc boms to excel 
in mathematics and in writing lyrics. 


Since Libra is a movable sign, the Cancer asc boms will 
improve their machinery, houses, vehicles and promote their 
lands and academic skills. 


Venus, the ruler of houses 4 & 11 to Cancer, is the lord of this 
sign, Libra. Hence the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) own palaces, bungalows, gardens, vegetable farms, and 
may produce films, buildings, cosmetic goods, glass 
wares, plastic goods and may run automobile training 
centres, art schools and cultural institutions. 


(ii) be the happiest persons and will have joyful company 
of friends, elder brothers, sons-in-law and daughters- 
in-law, They tend to expect and like only happier 
moments in life. 


If the 4th house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Cancer asc bom may own agricultural farms, poultries , chemical 
and fertilizer machinery and industries etc. 


Since Mars is the lord of houses 5 & 10 to Cancer, the Cancer 
asc borns, 


(i) may be trainers in sports and politics, run sports centres, 
manufacture artistic goods, own religious centres, 
auditoriums, prostitution dens and may be preachers of 
Vedic concepts. 


(ii) may hold honorary post of a zamindar, own industries, 
responsible for government documents, have 
administrative capabilities and will generally be famous 
persons. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Swathi, owned by Rahu, the 


182 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Cancer asc borns may get educated in foreign countries, possess 
government vehicles, live in government quarters, may be 
imprisoned, may live near prisons or graveyards, may do 
adulterations and produce banned drugs or spurions goods. 


Rahu will act like Jupiter, the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Cancer. 
So please refer the bhava karakas of Jupiter. 


If the 4m house falls in the star of Vishakha, owned by Jupiter, 
the Cancer asc borns may hold legally valid properties, 
educational centres and big organisations, may be land 
inspectors, manufacturers of goods for temples, food items, silk, 
cotton and turmeric and may do business in real estates etc. 


Since Jupiter is the lard of houses 6 & 9 to Cancer, the Cancer 
asc borns will, 


(i) run centres for competitive examinations or research 
laboratories, produce food, medicine and medical goods, 
will do tailoring, arrange for medical camps, raise loans 
on properties, let houses for rent, will be purchasers, 
own inns, lodges and win tenders. 


(ii) win contracts, earn fame through higher education, do 
barter exchanges, will be teachers or head masters, 
manufacture novel things through research, have illegal 
affairs with servants, involve in imports, run research 
centres, construct temples, form trusts, make artificial 
organs, work as clerks in courts, panchayat offices, 
archeological and ancient memorials, receive subsidies 
from foreign countries and will be involved in 
production of taxable goods. 


V House : Scorpio 


Scorpio the VIIi house of Kaalchakra is the V house to Cancer. 
Hence the Cancer asc borns will have to face reversions, 
dejections or disrespect in the fields of arts, culture, sports or in 
gambling. 

Scorpio is a watery sign. So the Cancer asc borns will develop 
their skills of materialistic knowledge into wisdom of god and 


Cancer 163 


will become an expert in various kinds of arts. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So the Cancer asc borns will shine as 
milestones with their Intelligence in the fields of arts and culture. 
They are strong and steady in their Jove affairs and their children 
will be blessed with long life. 


Scorpio is ruled by Mars. The 5m house significations of Mars 
would let the Cancer asc borns to have children with excessive 
interest in sexual pleasures; Cancer asc borns may not believe 
in gods. They may like folk arts and boxing. They will be 
arrogant during copulations. 


If the 5in house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Cancer asc bors will have religious contacts, faith in god, 
quiet and calm children, will be true to their love affairs, excel 
in the field of arts through intuition, become politicians and 
religious leaders, religious servants and will be blessed with 
wisdom. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Cancer. When the V 
house falls in the star Vishaka, ruled by Jupiter, the lord of 6th 
& 9th, would enable the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) run competitive centres for arts and culture, become 
gynaecologists, blood-testing technicians, nurses, 
organisers of feasts, tailors of rich and artistic costumes, 
producers of naturopathy medicines, drug inspectors, 


commission agents and servants in lodges or cinema 
halls etc. 


(ti) win contracts in the fields of arts, gain name and fame 
through arts, change the field of arts, become teachers 
and hold honorary posts in the fields of arts and culture, 
change the forms of arts through research, have love 
affairs with artists, import artistic goods, run centres of 
music, arts, culture, religion and astrology, priests in 
religious centres, nationalize trusts, research clownery, 
erter into agreements with foreigners, collect temple 
taxes, mun trusts to maintain temples, member of the 


164 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


village panchayat board, to become a jury or a judge in 
the court of law and to maintain ancient memorials etc. 


If the 5m house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Cancer asc borns will have love affairs with people 
belonging to lower strata, will not be true to their love affairs, 
will not hesitate to involve in prostitution, become sanyasis, 
have lazy children, act in obscene or sober roles, will be watch 
guards at temples and ponds. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 7 & 8 to Cancer. If the 5th house 
falls in the star of Anusham, ruled by Saturn, the lord of 7 & 8, 
the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) maintain good social relations, reside in government 
quarters for artists, work in guest houses, love 
culminating into marriage, run voluntary organisations 
for social service and enter into partnership ventures. 


(ii) not hesitate to rape, to seize, to behave immorally; will 
be cheated, will live in bad surroundings and will be 
put into disrespect. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Cancer asc borns will be singers, musicians, commission 
agents, comedy actors, talkers, teachers of arts and Vedic 
scriptures, painters, sculptors etc. 


If the 5m house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the lord of 3&12, the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) be appreciated in journals and magazines for their artistic 
performances, publish books on arts, work in advertising 
agencies, study fine arts which requires imagination and 
intelligence, enter into agreements for artistic 
performances, change the orders of transfer and excel 
in arts of imagination. 


(ii) plan for secret love affairs, will be disappointed in love 
affairs, lack sense in love affairs, regain energy in 
hospital, protect children, give birth to children secretly 
and get into compromise with others. 


Cancer 165 


VI House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the IX sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc borns will enjoy favours m their court cases. 
They may issue insolvency notice and involve in illegal affairs 
during their service. They may become advocates, judges, head 
masters, dieticians and workers in schools, colleges, law and 
research centres. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign. Hence the Cancer asc borns may 
have to serve in jobs wherein fire is used. 


Since Sagittarmus is a common sign, food, dress, medicines, 
loans and borrowings, success, litigations and services of the 
Cancer asc borns would be of temporary in nature. 


Sagittarius is ruled by Jupiter. So the Cancer asc borns will 
serve in huge organisations, banks, medical and legal 
departments; organize feasts; avail loans through 
recommendations or against surety of popular and famous 
people. 


If the 6 house falls in the star Moola, ruled by Ketu, the Cancer 
asc borns will avail loans with criminal intentions, serve in the 
jobs wherein acid is used, face criminal charges, may practice 
as criminal advocates or as doctors (Gastro entreomologists), 
serve with criminal motives and will not hesitate to involve in 
criminal activities. 

Ketu would act like Mercury. Mercury is the lord of houses 3 
& 12 to Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) pubhsh books on their service, work in advertising 
agencies, enter into service agreements, receive appointment 
and transfer orders, serve as clerks, work to their job-interests 
and would believe in increasing production, receive 
appreciations from newspapers and magazines with regard to 
their professional or legal successes. 


(ii) borrow through secret plans, re-pay loans by availing 
fresh loans, withdraw their capitals and investments, 
regain lost goods, will be sued by the divorcee or partner 
and face break-evens in income and expenditure. 


166 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Cancer asc borns will serve in the fields of arts, culture, 
hardware and paints, glassware, plastics, silk production, become 
tailors, or weavers, work in vegetable stores, fruit stalls and 
produce tasty food or sweets. 


Venus is the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Cancer. So the Cancer 
asc borns will, 


(i) serve in macro-institutions of lands, vehicles & 
properties, prepare food varieties, serve in production 
of hvestock, become school teachers or producers of 
house-hold articles and organise decorations of stages 
for dances and music concerts. 


(ii) gain success only through struggles, stay in lodges, work 
for societies, gain success on litigations of societies, get 
a servant of personal choice, have fortunes and fortunate 
opportunities of employment, make professional 
achievements, will be fortunate to taste food of personal 
choice and will have the capacity to diagnose diseases 
correctly. 


If the 6 house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Cancer asc borns will avail government loans, become or have 
government servants, get government food, uniforms and serve 
in government departments of food, agriculture, poultry, health 
and employment. 


Sun is the lord of 2na house to Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns 
will be capable of rendering successful and profitable speech, 
avail cash or gold or valuables as loans, purchase or hire- 
purchase costly goods keep goods against loans and work for 
more than what they actually need. 


VII House : Capricorn 


Capricorn the X sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Cancer 
So the Cancer asc borns would be able to do partnership 
ventures. However, their family life would always be in trouble 
and the relationships between husband and wife would not 
remain cordial leading to frustrations in hife. 


Cancer 187 


Capricorn is an eatthy sign. Hence the Cancer asc boms will 
have affectionate spouses with belief in moral values. 


Capricorn is a movable sign. Hence the Cancer asc boms will 
have increasing number of customers, make professional gains 
from society and would see development of their spouses or 
partners. 


Capricorn is ruled by Saturn, the lord of 7 & 8 to Cancer. So 
the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) have spouses/partners/customers with indiscipline, 
untaithfulness, doubtfulness, wavering minds and 
untruthful characteristics. 


(11) suffer mental tensions caused by and will be cheated by 
spouses/partners/customers. 


If the 7in house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Cancer bors will be in public service and work for the 
development of people, have spouses with self-pride and may 
have to serve under rude officers. 


Sun is the ruler of 2n¢ house to Cancer. So the Cancer boms 
will have spouses or partners with shorter lives, get financial 
assistance from others, have the ability to speak for profits 
through banks, purchase gold arid valuables with the assistance 
of others, get costly goods as gifts, will act to assist, work for 
more than what others actually expect and will be affectionate 
towards others. 


If the 7 house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Cancer asc borns will have colourful, young, active spouses 
with perversions in sexual pleasures and wavering minds. These 
characteristics would also apply to business partners & 
customers. 


Moon 1s the lord of Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns will accept 
the ideas of others, listen to others, do successful joint ventures, 
may face oppositions, require dependence to remain active, 
invite competitions from others and may become as popular 
persons. 


168 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


They may have to suffer from diseases in kidneys, uterus and 
stomach. They are physically weak due to the decrease in the 
immunity power. 


If the 7ih house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Cancer asc borns will have spouses / partners of immoral 
characters and arrogance, meet customers who never hesitate 
to tell hes, may have to meet terrorists who threaten society, 
may have to manage second child who behaves arrogantly and 
will have to request for assistance from others under stressful 
circumstances. 


Mars is the lord of houses 5 & 10 to Cancer. So the Cancer 
asc borns will, 


(i) easily fall in love, will be artists, singers, astrologers, 
saints or priests, rehgious servants , pimps or prostitutes. 


(i) enter into partnership ventures, face dissatisfactions 
caused by others and will have love failures. 


VIII House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc borms will enjoy favours in the course of 
their worries and struggles and in the same way they will get 
into troubles due to their greedy nature. 


Aquarius 1s an airy sign; hence the Cancer asc borns may tend 
to meet with accidents due to natural calamities, bomb blasts 
and air pressure. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign; so Cancer asc borns will have long 
life. The effects of accidents, worries, troubles, pains, stress, 
disrespect would last long for Cancer asc borns. 


Aquarius is ruled by Saturn. So the Cancer asc borns will 
face disrespect, false allegations, false court cases, defamation, 
dejection, annihilation and threatening, act cowardly, run away 
to save their lives, live incognito or underground, have constant 
fear of death, face cruel accidents and will not hesitate to 
undertake cruel acts and have the capacity to repair old goods. 


Cancer {69 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Cancer. asc borns will get into quarrels, riots, struggles, 
terrorism, sieges and false allegations. They may be put under 
pohce or military actions; they may be troubled by brothers and 
assaulted with weapons or bombs; face cruel accidents; will 
not hesitate to involve in rapes, murders, forgery and cheatings 
and to be a part of suicide squads. 


Mars, the lord of Dhanishta star is also the lord of houses 5 & 
10 to Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) meet with accidents at dance and music programs and 
in sports, spoil their own reputations in love affairs, will 
not hesitate to rape, will be put into disrespect in politics, 
arts and culture, will be punished in sports, will be 
harassed in prostitution lodges, behave rudely in 
indecent dance shows, mvolve in brawls at bars and 
impure religious rituals. 


(ii) face allegations in the substantiation process in service, 
corrupt while holding high posts, have admimstrative 
capacity, will not hesitate to do forgery, lose name and 
fame and face difficulties m getting due promotions in 
service. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Cancer asc borns may be imprisoned, will easily be addicted 
to liquor, drugs and women, will be punished in foreign 
countries, their properties getting seized, will be blamed by 
foreign countries and suffer from damages in blood vessels, lack 
of protein and respiratory problems. 


(Readers may please refer the bhava karakas or cuspal 
significations of Jupiter for Rahu.) 


If the 8" house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Cancer asc borns will be punished or fined by courts, lose 
gold and valuables, do illegal acts, will be threatened by legal 
proceedings or face seizures of properties and produce damaged 
goods. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Cancer. So the Cancer 
asc borns will, e 


170 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) face problems in competitive examination centres, suffer 
more due to severe diseases in hospitals, due to the 
negligence of nurses and by side-effects of medicines, 
suffer from allergy through food and dress, acidity 
tablets, meet with accidents while producing medicines 
and face allegations in lodges. Their debates will turn 
into quarrels. 


(ii) get into troubles in port contracts or while importing, 
face difficulties in teaching or preaching professions and 
when their transfer orders get delayed or stayed, meet 
with fire accidents in research centres, may have to wind 
up trusts, enter mto forgeries in collecting money for 
rehgious centres, will be punished by courts, meet with 
accidents due to damages in ancient monuments and 
involve in making divisions of local bodies. 


IX House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc borns wil! study research and in foreign 
countries; may have secret illegal affairs; have the ability to 
find new and novel things and may research in religious matters; 
they may have to live in foreign countries. 


Pisces is a watery sign. so the Cancer asc borns will excel in 
their higher education; they may be priests and preachers and 
may undertake sea voyages. 


Pisces is a common sign; so higher education, travels, life at 
foreign countries, research, illegal affairs of the Cancer asc borns 
will see fluctuations. 


Pisces is ruled by Jupiter. So Cancer asc borns will have 
wisdom, faith in religious rituals, undertake renovation works 
of temples and !n higher education, alter religious practices, 
law and discipline of a country, will be educated in teaching 
and may become as professors, temple trustees, ambassadors, 
exporters and national financial controllers. 


If the 9» house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the lord of 6 & 9, the Cancer asc borns will, 


Cancer 177 


(i) act as supervisors in competitive examination centres, 
will become nurses, undertake medical examinations, 
suffer due to the severity of hereditary disorders, side 
effects of medicines, allergies due to affairs with 
unknown persons and in the handling of acids, have the 
habit of consuming excessive food, undertake joint 
ventures in medical research, may get into illegal affairs 
in research fields, enter into mutual agreements in the 
national assemblies and may be employed through 
heirships. 


(ii) become national leaders, popular researchers, 
ambassadors, holders of honorary posts, judges, enter 
into agreements, work in government finance 
departments, embassies and religious centres. 


If the 9 house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Cancer asc borns will get educated im the fields of science; 
slow but steady in higher education, Jack needed interest in 
higher education, involve in seed research and may become 
laboratory technicians. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 7 & 8 to Cancer. So the Cancer 
asc borns will, 


(i) show discipline in social service, have social relations 
with government officials and their social institutions 
will be recognised by government; have illegal affairs 
with younger sister of wife, may marry twice and may 
enter into second partnerships. 


(ii) face threats on life in illegal affairs, commit forgeries in 
ancestral properties and make mistakes in research 
fields; face hurdles in continuing higher education and 
research work, will be troubled in foreign journeys and 
by foreigners and face failures in reaching agreements. 


If the 9tn house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
the Cancer asc borns will become clerks in research centres, 
teachers of higher education, counselors, lawyers, 
mathematicians, agents for imports and exports, government 
cashiers and statisticians and work in embassies or information 


172 A Strologics of kaatch akra 


& field publicity departments. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 3 & 12 to Cancer. so the Cancer 
asc borns will, 


(i) publish educational books, work as propagators, have 
interest in mathematics, research, speeches, 
communication, have excellent memory power, think 
beyond their capacity but act within their capacity and 
exchange their holdings and belongings. 


(ii) spend money on their secret affairs or relations or for 
renovation of temples, face financial crisis due to new 
professional ventures, will be unable to liquidate capital; 
make discoveries and will continue their research 
education. 


X House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Cancer. So 
the Cancer asc borns will become leaders of their professional 
teams, higher officials, political leaders and industrialists and 
hold responsible posts. 


Aries is a fiery sign; so the Cancer asc borns will become 
industrialists and would hold responsibilities as leaders. 


Aries is a movable sign; so their status, profession and promotion 
to higher posts will be progressively improving. 


Aries is a sign ruled by Mars. So the Cancer asc borns will 
hold responsible and vital posts, become industrialists or 
executive officers and work in fire-related professions or in the 
fields of land & buildings, government documents, police and 
military. 

If the 10 house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Cancer asc borns will involve themselves in illegal activities 
with and for authority and power but in reality, will have to live 
with mental dissatisfactions. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of 3 & 12 to Cancer. So 
the Cancer asc borns will, 


Cancer 173 


(i) gain press publicity as industrialists, become brokers, 
book publishers, messengers, composers in printing, 
writers, bill collectors, accountants, electrical staff, 
plumbers, salesmen and assistants and will work in 
professions which require presence of mind and power 
of memory at times beyond their capacity. 


(ii) do business through secret contacts, do two different 
professions, incur high expenditure and make heavy 
investments on profession, have secret affairs in new 
profession and will do research works. 


If the 10" house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Cancer asc borns will have status and authority in the fields of 
arts and culture and would involve themselves in the profession 
of banned drugs, liquor and women. 


Venus is the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Cancer. So the Cancer 
asc borns will, 


(i) produce goods of artistic values, become farmers, 
masons, cleaners and carpenters and work in the fields 
of glassware, woods and trees, vehicles, electricity, water 
tanks, fertilizers, boilers, agricultural fields, farms, fruit 
gardens and godowns. 


(ii) work in societies, will be registrars of agreements on 
behalf of societies, have fortunes and favours in 
profession, enter into favourable agreements, have job 
satisfactions, make achievements in their professions, 
improve working conditions and professional status and 
develop their own professional fields. 


If the 10* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 

Cancer asc borns will become government officers, work in 
~ government, quasi-government or public sector undertakings, 
industrial centres, centres of vocational education and 
employment exchanges and hold honorary posts in government 
sectors. 


Sun is the lord of 2nd house to Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns 
will show professional excellence With their skills of 


174 A strologics of kaalch akra 


conversations and in-bom nature of speaking truth and incyease 
their professional activities through money. 


XI House: Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of the Kaalchakra is the XI house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc boms will always be selfish and greedy after 
money. They would tend to treat friendships for gains. They 
gain through friends, elder brother, sons-in law and daughters- 
in law. 


Taurus is an earthy sign; so the Cancer asc borns will be greedy 
but show affinity towards their friends. 


Taurus is a fixed sign; so the Cancer asc borns will have long- 
term desires and expectations and their happiness would last 
long. 


Taurus is a house of Venus; so the Cancer asc boms will always 
be happy persons with joyful company of friends, sons-in-law, 
daughters-in law and elder brother. 


If the !1" house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Cancer asc borns can make fnendship with popular political 
leaders and win awards and medals from government. They can 
be part of assemblies of government, co-operative societies, 
recreation clubs, festivals, guest houses and memorials. 


Sun is the lord of 2nd house to Cancer.So the Cancer asc borns 
will have satisfactory gains through their skills of conversations; 
gain gold, costly goods and valuables of their choice; make 
profits out of their friends, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law 
and they will change everything to their favour. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Cancer asc borns will have many friends and a few of them 


tend to create confusions, have complacent attitude, selfish and 
will be fond of drinks. 


Moon is the lord of Cancer. So the Cancer asc borns will always 
think about themselves and greedy, happily involve in their 
activities, show self-pride, maimtain different or independent 
approach, make changes in their activities, show imagination, 


Cancer 175 


have the pleasure of tasting foods, have excess of body vitamins 
and will have good body functions. 


Ifthe 11" house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, 
the Cancer asc borns will have unfaithful friends, sons-in-law 
and daughters-in-law, struggle for success and satisfaction and 
greedy with vigour. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 5 & 10. So the Cancer asc 
borns will, 


(i) have love affairs, happy relationships enter into peaceful 
agreements and will be interested in the fields of arts 
and culture. 


(ii) hold honorary higher posts with status, gain name, fame 
and do jobs or works of their choice. 


XII House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Cancer. 
So the Cancer asc borns will have to Jose their belongings and 
properties in secret activities. They may also lose their 
documents, benami properties and secret holdings. 


Gemini is an airy sign. So the Cancer asc borns will undertake 
secret research, investigations and archeological research on 
ancient things. 


Since Gemini is a common sign, the expenditures, investments 
and secret activities of the Cancer asc borns would not last 
long and see high fluctuations. 


Gemini is ruled by Mercury. So the Cancer asc borns may 
invent micro instruments through secret research, log secret 
notes and accounts, involve in adulterations, enter into secret 
agreements and possess secret photographs and documents. 


Ifthe 12h house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, 
the Cancer asc borns will involve themselves in illegal and 
secret activities, involve in smugglings and hoardings, run 
prostitution dens and may work in lodges, investigation 
departments and operation theatres. 


176 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Mars is the lord of houses 5 & 10. So the Cancer asc borns will, 


(i) face breaks in happy and cordial relations and peaceful 
agreements, force opposite sex for love and incur 
expenditure in the fields of arts and culture. 


(ii) have to work heavily, serve in double-natured jobs and 
in jobs wherein maintenance of secrecy would be 
required. 


If the 12" house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Cancer asc borns may undertake secret investigations, have to 
serve in atomic power stations and gunpowder industries or serve 
as anaesthetist or oxygen-assistants and may be hijackers of 
planes. 


(Readers may please refer and include the house significations 
of Jupiter for Rahu.) 


If the 12* house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Cancer asc borns will involve in secret legal activities and 
fake currency notes, threaten by issuing legal notices through 
courts, get into income-tax troubles and will be imprisoned by 
court of law and their secret properties will be seized by the 
government. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Cancer. So the Cancer 
asc bors will, 


(i) make secret success but with high expenditures, lose 
self consciousness due to perverted feelings, change their 
jobs as they wish, suffer due to inability to identify 
diseases; servants absenting themselves without notice. 


(ii) incur expenditures for the cause of social service, have 
illegal affairs with higher officials, secret interests in 
voluntary organisations, have secret affairs, undertake 
secret journeys to foreign countries enter into secret 
agreements and will have troubles in continuing their 
higher education. 


Added to the above, the inclusion of residentships of planets at 
the time of birth will support the precision of predictions. 


Cancer 177 


Leo 


General nature of the sign Leo 


It is a fiery, fixed, masculine and singular sign. Its colour is red 
and denotes heart among the organs in the body. Other chief 
significations of Leo are: barren, dry, animal, four legged, lion 
shaped , mountains, forests, hilly regions, deserts, forts, 
government buildings, arts, music, culture and literary centres, 
gambling houses, lodges, maternity homes, compound of 
buildings, front part of a street, noon, V sign of Zodiac, south 
direction, Shravana in Saka or Aavam in Tamil calendars. 


As detailed earlier, the significations may be categorised into 
(i) ascendant related and (11) independent of ascendant. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF LEO 


Leo is the fifth sign of zodiac. It is a fiery and fixed sign, ruled 
by Sun. These bestow the following significations to Leo asc 
borns. 


(a) Fiery sign: Short temper, lack of affection, arrogant in 
appearance and character and self-pride. 

(b) Fixed sign: Physique, character, anger, activities, colour, 
beauty, appearance and talents would remain fixed. 

(c) Lord of Leo is Sun: Majestic in appearance, self-pride, 
strong bones in the body, generous attitude, authoritative 
and leadership. 


178 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(d) 5m house of Kaalchakra: Artistic talents, interested 
towards literature, music, drama, lottery, race, gambling, 
politics, cinema and commission business. 


In the same manner, the remaining, 1.e., ascendant independent 
significations of Leo may also be studied. 


The sign Leo extends over three stars leading to the following 
body natures. 


Gi) Makha: Owned by Ketu (acidity and hyper-thermal). 
(ii) Poorvapalguni: Owned by Venus. 
(iti) Uttarapalguni: Owned by Sun. 


If the ascendant falls in Makha star, ruled by Ketu, the Leo asc 
bors will have distinct and different appearance, which could 
not easily be understood by others. Greed with criminal 
intentions, lean body with humpy back and excess secretion of 
acid in the body may be inherent with them. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, which is the lord of houses 2 and 
11 to Leo. So the Leo asc borns will,, 


(1) have the skill of expressions, the ability to adjust with 
truth and false and the ability to develop their skill of 
actions, 


(il) be greedy, selfish, happy and joyful; have expectations 
and fortunes, success, achievements and will be adjusting 
with others. 


If the ascendant falls m the star of Poorvapalgum, ruled by 
Venus, the Leo asc borns will have beautiful, sexy and attractive 
appearance. They will attract others through actions, have self- 
pride, relish self-beauttficationsand cosmetics and will be fond 
of gold and valuables. 


Venus is the lord of houses 3 and 10 to Leo so the Leo asc 
borns will, 


(i) be intelligent, active, make self-efforts, have courage, 
self confident, interest, knowledge, remain informative, 


inclined towards education, self-transformation and have 
changes in jobs and 


(ii) have status, authority, leadership, honorary posts, 
administrative skills, high offices, name and fame, 
unsatisfied mind and responsibility to render 
counselling, 


If the ascendant falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Leo asc borns will have majestic appearance, seltf-pride, 
strong bones, respectable gestures, authority, leadership and 
generous attitude. 


Sun is the lord of ascendant to those born in Leo. So they feature 
own and independent thoughts, quick in actions and reactions, 
capability to act, tendency to show strength and actions as per 
their personal traits. 


II House : Virgo 


Virgo is the sixth sign of Kaalchakra. Hence the Leo asc borns 
tend to talk more about success, litigations, loans and 
borrowings, diseases and problems between husband and wife. 


Virgo is an earthy and common sign. Therefore, the words of 
Leo asc borns would not remain stable but would be calm. They 
respect others in their words and show love and affection in 
their conversations. Their words will always aim at winning 
others. 


It is a house ruled by Mercury, which is also the lord of houses 
2 and 11 to Leo. So the Leo asc borns will talk with evidences, 
clarity, profit-motives in a well-organized manner and with 
multiple meanings. 


IIJ House : Libra 


Libra, the seventh sign of Kaalchakra is the third house to Leo. 
So the Leo asc boms will always think about others by carrying 
competitive spirits and their minds will be inclined towards 
others. 


Libra is a movable and airy sign. So the Leo asc borns believe 


180 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


in self-pride, self-acclamations, self-publicity and self- 
confidence. 


Venus rules Libra, which is the lord of houses 3 and 10 to Leo 
thereby making the Leo asc borns to have happy minds and 
imaginations. They like writing and may choose it as a career. 


IV House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the eighth sign to Kaalchakra is the fourth house to 
Leo. The Leo asc borns may have to face hurdles in their primary 
education. 


Scorpio is fixed and watery sign. Thus the natives may excel in 
education. They would not hesitate to hve in dirty places and 
like to change their residences. They tend to change themselves 
as per the requirements of the situations. They will be interested 
in agriculture. 


Scorpio is a house ruled by Mars, the lord of houses 4 and 9 to 
Leo. So the Leo asc borns will excel] in their higher education 
in spite of their natural attitude of arrogance. 


V House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the ninth sign of Kaalchakra is the fifth house to 
Leo. Leo asc borns will fall in love with married persons or 
with children. They show arrogance and try to thrust their love 
in their affairs, which may initiate at colleges, law offices or in 
femples. 


Sagittarius is a fiery and common sign. Hence the Leo asc 
boms tend to show more interest in the fields of arts, culture, 
politics and sexy dances. 


Since it is a house of Jupiter, which is the lord of houses 5 and 
8 to Leo, they may have their respect spoiled on account of 
sexy dances, prostitution, politics, religion, gambling and 
astrology and in sports. They have the grace of god with them 
and would excel in the art of mixing their intuitions with deep 
thoughts. 


Leo 181 


VI House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the tenth sign of Kaalchakra is the sixth house to 
Leo. So the Leo asc borns will suffer permanently from pain in 
legs and professional hazards. 


Capricorn is an earthy and movable sign. So the Leo asc borns 
will suffer from excessive body weight. They always gain 
success in their actions. 


Capricorn is ruled by Saturn, which owns the houses 6 and 7 
to Leo. So the Leo asc borns are likely to suffer from contagious 
diseases and their diseases may be severe. 


VII House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the eleventh sign of Kaalchakra, is the seventh house 
to Leo. This renders Leo asc borns to have cordial] and 
harmonious social and private relations. 


Aquarius js a fixed and airy sign. Their friendships usually are 
longlasting and they have public or family relations with people 
of self-pride. They have a sensitive feel of touch and a normal 
functioning of kidneys. 


Since Saturn, the lord of houses 6 and 7 to Leo, rules this house 
the partners of the Leo asc borns may lack needed sexual interest. 
The Leo asc borns will win over their opponents or enemies. 


VIII House : Pisces 


Pisces, the twelfth sign of Kaalchakra 1s the eigth house to Leo. 
The Leo asc borns may get into troubles on account of their 
secret activities. They may also become dejected in their 
investments. 


Pisces 1s a common and watery sign. The Leo asc borns may 
have to meet with accidents in seas and during return journeys. 


Since this sign is ruled by Jupiter, the lord of houses 5 and 8 to 
Leo, the Leo borns may gét into troubles one after another and 
get their reputation damaged. 


182 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


IX House : Aries 


Aries the [ sign of Kaalchakra is the 1X house to Leo. So the 
Leo asc borns excel in higher education, win others’ confidence 
and gain status in life. 


Aries is a movable and fiery sign. The Leo asc borns would not 
care for anything, which distracts them from higher studies. They 
shine in the field of machinery. 


Aries is a signruled by Mars, which ts the lord of houses 4 and 
9 to Leo. Leo asc borns usually study about buildings, 
automobiles, machinery, agriculture etc. 


X House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra 1s the X house to Leo. So the 
Leo asc borns gain status in the professions of banking, jewellery 
and diamonds, mortgages and selling of stamp papers. 


Taurus is a fixed and earthy sign. So the status and authority of 
Leo asc born remains permanent. Such natives use their 
influence to benefit others. 


Since it is a sign ruled by Venus, the lord of houses 3 and 10 to 
Leo, the Leo asc borns will use their professional relationships 
for the professional benefits of others. 


XI House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the X1 house to Leo. The 
Leo asc borns will be satisfied with their interests and self- 
confidence as with struggles. They will also win the confidence 
of their sons-in-law, daughters-in-law and friends. 


Since Gemini is a common and airy sign, the Leo asc borns 
will be fond of name and fame and would not carry their desires 
forever. They tend to switch their interests from one field to 
another. 


Since it is a house of Mercury, the lord of houses 2 and 11 to 
Leo, the Leo asc borns will prosper with generally big financial 
benefits. 


Leo 183 


XII House : Cancer 


Cancer, the fourth sign of Kaalchakra is the twelfth house to 
Leo. So the Leo asc borns will usually have secret interests in 
lands, vehicles, buildings, machinery and properties. They may 
even possess black money. 


Since Cancer is a watery and movable sign, the Leo asc borns 
will get due returns from their secret investments. 


Cancer is the house of Moon, so the Leo asc boms will keep 
secret notes and secret documents. 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF LEO UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT 


II House : Virgo 


Virgo the sixth sign of Kaalchakra is the second house to Leo. So 
the Leo asc borns will prosper out of their loans, diseases, 
htigations, service, costumes, food and unofficial negotiations for 
mutual agreements. 


Virgo is an earthy sign. The Leo asc boms would like to preserve 
and improve upon their earnings by saving them. 


Virgo is acommon sign. The belongings and valuable articles 
like gold, diamonds, money, costly goods and documents of the 
Leo asc borns may not remain preserved with them in spite of 
their efforts in this direction. 


It is asign ruled by Mercury. So Leo asc boms will gain from 
greenish stones, costly micro-instruments, cheques and 
negotiable instruments. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Leo asc borns are likely to receive advantages from 
government in the form of subsidies, awards and savings, also 
get benefited from financial departments and financial 
institutions. They may hold diamonds, stamps and documents. 


Sun is the lord of ascendant to Leo. So the Leo asc borns will 
make money out of their own ideas and wil! remain independent 
with their income; show their influences through money; change 


184 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


their minds for money, increase their activities with the use of 
money and would like to enjoy themselves with their earnings 
to fulfil their selfish motives. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Leo asc borns will have frequent incomes and would gain from 
pearls and silver goods; increase their activities by using their 
money. They may become counsellors to finance companies. 


Moon is the lord of 12* house to Leo. So the Leo asc borns will 
derive benefits and profits from their secret activities, plans and 
articles, by losing organs in their body, through money lending, 
savings and by regaining goods that were lost. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Leo asc borns will become spendthrifts, will not hesitate to he 
for financial benefits, become dishonest in money matters by 
seizing articles of others, will possess jewellery, ruby and metals. 


Leo asc borns will have the ability to speak courageously but 
will at times become hoarse and indecent and use filthy language 
and hurt the feelings of others. 


Mars is the lord of houses 4 & 9 to Leo. So the Leo asc borns: 


(i) will have excessive production of energy vin the body, 
will get benefits from their education, educational 
centres and libraries, make profits from fruit farms, crop 
fields and vegetables and by taking lease of ponds, 
reservoirs and bridges. 


(ii) will study agriculture, geology, mechanical engineering, 
history, criminal law, archaeology and may become 
judges, headmasters, transporters, landlords and 
politicians. 


III House : Libra 


Libra, the seventh sign of Kaalchakra is the third house to Leo. 
The Leo asc borns will be fearful towards opposite sex and 
would always think about others. They would carry social 
awareness and have good pubhic relations. 


Leo 185 


As Libra is ar airy sign, the Leo asc boms are tension-prone 
and always carry confusion in their minds; could perform only 
after repeated attempts. 


Libra, being movable sign, the communication and contacts, 
writings and publications, public relations, sale of properties of 
the Leo asc borns would be taking place fastiy and effortlessly. 


Libra is a house of Venus. The Leo asc borns will mostly receive 
happy news, contacts and letters, enter into profitable agreements 
and receive brokerage happily. They would be editors and 
dialogue writers for films and dramas, excel in writing stories 
and poems using pure imagination. 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Leo asc born will get involved fn false propaganda and forged 
documents and may enter into illegal agreements and impose 
unnecessary and harsh conditions in them. 


Mars is the lord of houses 4 and 9 to Leo. So the Leo asc borns: 


(i) will study certificate courses, involve in the sale of fruits, 
vegetables, grains, seeds, seedlings and trees through 
nurseries and farms, sale of livestock, notebooks, pencil, 
paper and stationeries for schools, newspapers, utensils, 
furniture, groceries, lands, buildings, vehicles, hardware, 
machineries and equipments for ponds, reservoirs and 
bridges and would become brokers of real estates. 


(ii) will enter into confident and reliable agreements and 
money exchanges, enjoy name and fame, receive orders 
to act in the capacity as leaders or heads, enter into 
agreements for research and social endowments, easily 
become closer to foreigners, act as mediators or senders 
of messages and communicators to foreign nations, 
involve government in religious endowments, 
nationalise trusts, do transplantation of organs, will be 
forced to submit sales tax accounts, will be clerks in 
legal departments, take lease of the properties of temples 
and religious centres and provide research information 
about archaeological centres and ancient monuments. 


186 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Leo asc borns will work as clerks in embassies, ambassadors 
and mediators and enter into international trade and foreign 
agreements, receive communications from and provide 
information about foreign countries and will deal in foreign 
goods. 


(Readers may please refer and include the bhava significations 
of Jupiter for Rahu.) 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Leo borns will deal with documents, stamp papers, cheques, 
legal notices, legal agreements and court orders. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 5 & 8 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns: 


(i) will be brokers in stock exchange and share market, 
become writers 6f religious arid sports columns in 
magazines, painters, sexy dancers, stage performers, 
political analysts, preachers of religion and write love 
letters, poems, stories and articles: 


(ii) will seize properties by harassing, steal documents and 
notes, spread rumours and illegal information, sell old 
goods, write obscene and threatening letters, receive 
court orders as death-warrants, become inspectors in 
mortuary or anti-corruption wing, doctors for post- 
mortem of corpses, agents for bribery, clerks in accident 
wards, enter into agreements for murders, illegally 
supply photostat copies, write wills and charters, forge 
documents and spoil reputation. 


IV House : Scorpio 


Scorpio the eighth sign of Kaalchakra is the fourth house to 
Leo. So the Leo asc borns will have to reside in dirty places or. 
in old buildings. Murders, suicides or accidents may take place 
near their residences. They may face accidents during 
construction of their houses and may have to face problems 
after problems in their properties and vehicles. 


Teo 187 


Scorpio is a watery and fixed sign. The Leo borns therefore 
may meet with mishaps near ponds, drainage water pits or in 
schools. They may like to hve in residences which fall in central 
part of a street having surplus water. Their lands, vehicles, 
properties and machinery would remain for long. 


Mars rules Scorpio. Mars would lead the Leo asc bors to 
show interest in agriculture, lands, vehicles and properties. They 
are natural landlords. They may hold agricultural farms and 
poultries. They may take lease of maintaining or protecting major 
industries, bridges and public toilets. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Leo asc borns may hold legally valid properties like big 
industries and educational centres. They may produce goods 
that are required for temples and churches and may become 
real-estate promoters, transporters, landlords, criminal judges 
and lessors. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 5 and 8 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns: 


(i) will own company shares, involve in religious codes, 
sports, love affairs, politics, arts and culture, produce 
imaginary- goods of artistic values, may reside near 
prostitution homes, cabaret clubs , auditoriums, religious 
and sports centres and become teachers of arts and 


(ii) will not hesitate to seize and encroach others' properties 
by threatening, hold properties with encumbrances, may 
reproduce with the use of scraps or pirated goods, may 
reside near dirty or damaged buildings, operation 
theatres, prisons or slaughter houses and may work in 
accident wards, mortuary or anti-corruption wing. They 
may gain properties through insurance or wills. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Leo asc borns may live near public lands, mines, ancient 
buildings, own old goods and wooden or clay articles and would 
benefit from oil seeds and black coloured materials. 


188 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Saturn is the lord of houses 6 and 7 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns: 


(i) will excel in tailoring, catering and production of 
medicines and medical-equipments; they may conduct 
medical camps, centres for competitive examinations 
and lodges; they tend to adopt the servants and would 
do money lending on properties; they may become 
accountants, tenants, purchasers, contractor on tenders 
and milk vendors. 


(ii) will mingle with society, guests and partners, reside in 
government quarters or government lands and purchase 
properties by acquiring loans, gain success by 
convincing life partner to stay in joint family and hold 
valid ration cards issued by government. 


If the 4tn house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Leo borns will own different articles, machines, computers, 
calculators, printers, micro instruments, electric and electronic 
goods, spare parts, tiles and lodges. They may serve as checking 
inspectors in transport organisations , assembler of machine parts 
and manufacturers. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 2 and 11 to Leo. So the Leo 
borns: 


(7) will hold valuable and useful articles, may purchase gold 
out of their own money and may construct bungalows. 


(ii) will be greedy in acquiring properties, construct 
bungalow with all comforts with the help of societies, 
organize clubs, gain fortunes at their residences, own 
lucky goods, will be fond of purchasing gift-articles, 
make achievements in production and will enjoy 
frequent visits of their best friends. 


V House: Sagittarius 


Sagittarius the eleventh sign of Kaalchakra ts the fifth house to 
Leo. So the Leo asc borns will have faith i god and religious 
services. They may fall in love especially with people who are 
much younger to them at schools, colleges and temples and 


Leo ""789 


would spoil the sanctity of these places. 


Sagittarius is a fiery and common sign; so the Leo asc bors 
would force for love or would rape or would do prostitution or 
perform obscene dances or give birth to a child with excessive 
interest in sexual pleasures. 


Sagittarius is a sign ruled by Jupiter. So the Leo asc borns 
will have religious contacts with faith in god; will become 
priests, politicians, religious leaders, would be true to their love 
affairs and will be fond of children. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the Leo 
asc boms will involve in magics and black-magisc, may act as 
pimps, will be brokers for illegal trades, will be politicians or 
would become closer to persons with criminal intentions. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, which 1s the lord of houses 2 and 
11 to Leo. So the Leo asc boms will: 


(ij) buy artistic goods and musical instruments, gain 
commissions, arrange things in an artistic manner, make 
imaginary purchases and train themselves in meaningful 
arts. 


(ii) learn arts zealously, open lodges or branches of societies, 
enter into partnership with societies or agreements to 
bring fortunes, win lotteries, make achievements in 
rearing livestock and will show affinity towards friends. 


If the 5th house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Leo asc borns, will show interest and excel in various fields 
of arts and culture would become popular politicians, astrologers, 
speakers or pundits and will not hesitate to involve in 
prostitutions and obscené dances. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 3 and 10 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
boms: 


(i) will receive happy news and enter into cordial 
agreements, happily act as brokers, be imaginative in 
writings and write verses, plays or screenplays. 


(ii) will gain status in various fields of arts and culture and 
1390 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


will profess in the fields of drugs, wine and women. 


If the 5th house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, 
the Leo asc borns will serve in government buildings, involve 
themselves in politics, sparts and religion, excel as chess players, 
work in the field of art supported by government and would 
receive subsidy. 


Sun is the lord of ascendant to Leo. So the Leo asc borns will 
excel in arts involving pure imagination, have independent 
thoughts and approach, acquire immunity and broaden their 
chests and enjoy proper functioning of heart, lungs and blood 
cells. 


VI House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the tenth sign of Kaalchakra is the sixth house to 

Leo. So the Leo asc borns will win court cases in their profession. 
They will be easily promoted in government service to gain 

status and honour, get opportunities in their profession. They 

would also suffer from profession related diseases and tend to 

remain in the same service for.a long period. They are also likely 
to become debtors in their professions. 


Capricorn is an earthy sign, so the Leo asc borns will suffer 
from diseases like allergy caused by environmental pollution 
leading to damages of neuro-system and shine in fields of 
agriculture and geology. 


Capricorn is a movable sign. So the dress and food habits, 
digestive capacity, diseases, medicines, loans, litigations, 
service, successes of the Leo asc borns Would naturally follow 
a developing trend. 


Capricorn is a sign ruled by Saturn. The Leo asc borns may 
have to work as labourers with poor working conditions; serve 
as assistants or peons in the fields of medicine, dresses, hotels 
and law offices; may work as announcers; have the habit of 
frequent borrowings of small amounts and may have to suffer 
from skin diseases. 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Leo asc borns wili.sue against government but would enjoy 


Leo 19] 


loan facilities from government. The Leo asc borns will be 
provided With dresses, food and medicines by the government. 
They may be employed in the government departments of food, 
poultry, employment, agriculture and health. 


Sun is also the lord of the ascendant to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will develop with self-thoughts and with their practice of 
developing their own skills of workmanship for successful acts. 
They will suffer from diseases that would make them inactive, 
impart frequent illnesses in stomach, intestines and digestive 
organs of the body due to lack of immunity. 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Leo asc borns will work as labourers in ships, fish ponds and 
grain fields. They serve as plumbers and would suffer from 
diseases and become physically weak caused by contaminated 
water. 


Moon is the lord of 12* house to Leo. So the Leo asc borns will 
borrow money through secret plans, clear previous loans by 
acquiring additional loans, regain lost goods and investinents, 
will be sued by the separated partner, become weak due to ill 
health, may become medical practitioners and spend all they 
earn. 


If the 6m house falls in the star of Dhanishta which is ruled by 
Mars, the Leo asc borns will suffer due to muscle pains and 
diseases caused by excessive heat in the body. They may work 
as labourers in food processing or medical industries or as tailors 
or cooks, 


Mars is also the lord of houses 4 and 9 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will: 


(i) work as contract laboureres in the fields of lands and 
buildings, household articles, automobiles and transport, 
macro industries, catering and as maintainers in 
poultries; may work as school teachers, furniture 
manufacturers and stage organisers for dramas and music 
concerts. 


192 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(ii) will serve as contract labourers in ports and teachers of 
high schools and in research centres, personnel 
departments, import and export offices, trusts, temples, 
courts, local bodies and in the offices of preservation of 
ancient monuments. 


VII House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the eleventh house of Kaalchakra is the seventh house 
to Leo. So the Leo asc borns will show affinity and love towards 
their life-partners. They tend to share their interests with business 
partners and society especially towards aged people. 


Aquarius is an airy sign. So the Leo asc borns will have 
intelligent wives and business partners. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign. The Leo asc borns will have everlasting 
and permanent ties with their wives, business partners , customers 
and people belonging to opposite sex. 


Aquartus is ruled by Saturn making the Leo asc boms to have 
wives or partners having immoral character, indiscipline, 
doubting, untruthful and wavering natures. 


If the 7th house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Leo asc borns will have wife or partners with characteristics 
like indiscipline and arrogance and may have to meet with liars 
as customers, may have to deal with terrorists, arrogant bank 
officials and disobeying children. They would be forced to 
request for assistance from others. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 4 and 9 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
bom will: 


(7) live with relatives, may be in the same compound, show 
affinity towards neighbours who live in houses directly 
opposite to them, have cordial relationships with people 
who are deputed to manage their properties and macro 
organisations, and 


(ii) have social contacts with leaders, foreigners, exporters, 
judges, priests, trustees and teachers. 


Leo 193 


If the 7th house falls in the’star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Leo asc borns will marry foreigners or have them as partners 
or customers, show undue and perverted interests in sexual 
pleasures with wavering minds and may become homosexuals. 


(Readers may please refer and include the bhava significations 
of Jupiter for Rahu.) 


If the 7in house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Leo asc borns will marry responsible and loving wives; may 
also get partners and customers from popular persons of the 
society. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 5 and 8 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will: 


(i) meet and maintain social relationships with opposite 
sex, artists, painters, singers, astrologers, teachers, 
religious preachers, prostitutes and pimps, and 


(ii) meet with persons like murderers, thieves, insurance 
officers, brokers for bribes, cunning persons and persons 
with criminal charges such as cheats and terrorists. 


VIII House : Pisces 


Pisces the twelfth sign of Kaalchakra is the eigth house to Leo. 
So the worries and troubles of Leo asc borns will resut in losses 
and they may be forced to hve underground at times. 


Pisces is a watery sign. So the Leo asc borns will face accidents 
by water especially seas or oceans; They will be troubled by 
rains and suffer due to infections in their urinary tracts. 


Pisces is acommon sign. Longevity, accidents, sorrows, pains 
and stress, disrespect and agony of the Leo asc borns would see 
fluctuating trends. 


Pisces is the sign of Jupiter. So the Leo asc borns will be 
punished and fined by law. They may lose gold and valuables 
through illegal activities and may have to face legal threats for 
seizure of properties. 


If the 8 house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 


194 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


the lord of houses 5 and 8 to Leo, the Leo asc borns will: 


(i) meet with accidents in drama or music stages, get injured 


in sports and games, will not hesitate to rape, face 
disrespect in love affairs and in the fields. of arts and 
culture, will be punished in sports and games, will be 
harassed in prostitution houses, enter into quarrels in 
cabaret halls or liquor bars and damage the sanctity of 
religious centres. 


(ii) be murdered or hanged to death, face accidental deaths, 


enter into quarrels, feel stress and pains, lose organs of 
body, enter into anti-social activities, will not hesitate 
to cheat, vengeful, believe in violence and will not 
hesitate to involve in robberies and seizures. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 

the Leo asc borns will threaten and will be threatened and 

boycotted; will be cowards; have loss of memory and wavering 

minds, carry a poor sense of dressing, abscond, have a permanent 
fear of death, face false allegations, meet with cruel accidents, 

will not hesitate to violent mode of actions and would repair 

old goods. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 6 and 7 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will have: 


(1) 


(11) 


problems in competition exam centres, increasing of 
agony of disease through medical treatment, bungling 
acts of nurses, wrong results of medicines, allergy 
through food, acidic medicines and dresses, accidents 
in the production of medicines, mistakes in medical 
procedures, quarrels mm courts, allegations in lodges. 


immoral activities in social service centres, antagonising 
government officials, corruptions in pubhe welfare 
centres, disappointments in marriages, partnership 
cheatings, discredit and disgrace through spouse and 
enemies, murder threats. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
the Leo asc borns will face troubles by way of cheques, 


Leo 


"555 


documents, disconnection of electricity and telephones, 
properties, surety, anonymous letters, miscommunication, 
forgetfulness, loss of memory and neurological disorders. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 2 and |] to Leo. So the Leo 
asc borns will: 


(i) enter into troublesome negotiations, suffer due to allergy, 
have unexpected gains or gifts in the form of gold and 
valuables, donate valnable gifts and tend to save beyond 
their capacity. 


(ii) struggle with greedy nature, will be harassed in lodges, 
misappropriate funds in societies, face charges 
challenging their integrity m societies, lose fortunate 
opportunities, have unfortunate employments and face 
troubles in service due to their self-interests and would 
diagnose for vitamin deficiencies. 


IX House : Aries 


Aries the ascendant of the Kaalchakra is the ninth house of 
Leo. So the Leo asc borns wil! win the confidence of others and 
will be forced to complete their higher education. They will be 
interested in the fields of teaching, agriculture and mechanical, 
engineering and may get into troubles due to illegal affairs with 
close relatives. 


Aries is a fiery sign, so they will be intelligent enough in 
academic pursuits, have strong faith in their religion and 
administrative capabilities and may indulge in polygamy. 


Aries is a movable sign. Higher education, journeys and life in 
foreign countries, research, confidence and polygamy will be 
imminent features in the life profile of a Leo asc borns. 


Aries is a sign owned by Mars. So the Leo asc borns will study 
agriculture, geology, mechanisms, history and archaeology and 
may become head masters, political leaders, transporters, 
landlords and judges in criminal courts. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 


196 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Leo asc bors will excel in their higher education with wisdom 
and knowledge and would be educated in the fields of teaching; 
they may become temple trustees, ambassadors, exporters, 
professors and financial controllers of a state; they may involve 
themselves in transforming law and moral codes of a society 
and in religious rituals, customs and renovation works of 
temples. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 2 and 11 to 
Leo. So the Leo asc borns will: 


(i) be soft-spoken, gain ancestral properties and would be 
able to receive gifts of all kinds. 


(ii) complete diploma courses, hold honorary posts, achieve 
success in research, earn name and fame, gain with 
greedy attitude, maintain cordial relations and enter into 
successful agreements with societies, have lucky 
opportunities in life, find out right ways of doing things, 
will be fond of taking fatty foods, always be joyful and 
will not hesitate to have illegal affairs with unknown 
persons of their choice. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Leo asc borns will involve themselves in the research of arts 
and culture, have higher education, become transporters, stage 
decorators and may have affairs with foreigners or teachers. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 3 and 10 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will: 


(i) think beyond their capacity, get press-publicity, publish 
books on education, become as orators , communicators, 
mediators, researchers and informers; show interest in 
the fields of mathematics with powerful memory and 
enter into barter exchanges, and 


(ii) serve in transport organisations, information and 
communication departments, import export 
corporations, ports, embassies, electricity, oil wells, 
water supply, mines, teaching institutes, personnel 


departments, temples, trusts, courts, panchayat offices 
and in ancient monuments. 


If the 9* house fails in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the Leo 
asc borns will serve in education and endowment departments, 
embassies, government research centres and finance departments 
and in foreign organisations. 


Sun is the lord of ascendant to Leo. So the Leo asc boms will 
research with self thoughts, show stability and independent 
approach in their commitments, be knowledgeable and quiet 
and calm in actions, have deep sleep and thoughts, get 
transformations in the body structures, suffer due to malignant 
growths and due to the changes m the functioning of the 
productive organs of the body, become stout, face increase in 
body functioning and have body that would adapt to the 
requirements. 


X House : Taurus 


Taurus the second house of Kaalchakra is the tenth house to 
Leo. Leo asc boms will serve in the fields wherein they use 
their voice and have to speak. They will work in the fields of 
banking, finance, jewellery and mortgage stores. 


Taurus.ts an earthy sign, so the Leo asc boms will show 
professional interests in the fields of medicine, catering, dresses, 
vegetables, grains and agriculture. 


Taurus is a fixed sign. The Leo asc boms will be blessed with 
stability in their profession, status, authority and posts. The 
production in the body will remain constant and they have strong 
thighs. 


Taurus is a house of Venus. So the Leo asc boms will gain 
status in the fields of arts and culture and would not hesitate to 
involve themselves in the professions of drugs, wine and women. 


If the 10* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Leo asc borns will be high officials or hold honorary posts in 
goverment departments and work in government owned 
commercial complexes, industrial, vocational or educational 
centres and employment exchanges. 


198 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Sun is the lord of ascendant to Leo asc boms. So they will use 
their brains with independent thoughts in respectful professions 
and may become industrialists; will suffer due to body 
functioning and would be allergic to a set of food items; however 
they tend to become more energetic and activé. 


If the 10* house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Leo asc borns will work in boats and ships, import-export 
organisations, medical shops, fisheries, ports, pipes and wells 
and work with white coloured articles and liquids. 


Moon is also the lord of 12"house to Leo.So the Leg asc borns 
will do profession with secret links or secret things or research 
as profession or would do two different professions; tend to 
invest more on profession; may have secret affairs in profession. 


If the 10* house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, 
the Leo asc borns will work in industries or in fire related 
professions or in the fields of Jand and vehicles, police, military, 
administration, government documents with more 
responsibilities. 


Mars ts also the lord of houses 4 and 9 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
boms will: 


(i) involve in the fields of manufacturing, agriculture, 
construction, carpentry, automobiles, electricity, water 
tanks, wood factories, fertilizers, boilers, grain fields, 
farms, fruit gardens, godowns and house-keeping. 


(ii) serve in voluntary organisations, social service 
institutions, éxport organisations, rocket launching 
stations, marriage registrar office, research institutes, 
embassies, agencies for foreign employment, transport, 
communications, ports, electricity, water supplies, 
mines, temples, trusts, courts, panchayat offices, ancient 
monuments, teaching institutes like colleges and 
universities and may hold honorary posts. 


Leo 199 


XI House Gemini 


Gemini, the III house of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Leo. 
Leo asc borns will show more interest in the fields of information 
and communication, negotiations, agreements and travels. 


Gemini is an airy sign. The Leo asc boms will be happy with 
fresh minds without bothering themselves with worries. 


Gemini is a common sign. The desires, happiness and 
expectations of the Leo asc borns would generally see 
fluctuations. 


Mercury rules this house. So the Leo asc borns will like micro 
instruments and books and will have witty frends, daughters- 
in-law, sons-in-law and elder brother. 


Ifthe 11 house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, 
the Leo asc borns will have insincere friends, struggle for 
success, will be greedy and have their desires fulfilled after 
prolonged struggles. 


Mars is also the lord of 4 and 9 houses to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will: 


({) tend to purchase whatever they wish, own properties 
with litigations, suffer due to frequent repairs in their 
vehicles or belongings, and 


(ii) have links with social-service institutions and voluntary 
organisations, have relations with high officials and 
foreign countries, undertake foreign journeys, study 
according to their personal desires , enter into agreements 
and may be polygynists. 


If the 11 house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Leo asc borns will have foreign friends and sadistic attitudes 
with a mind to enjoy cruelty and talk about social service with 
selfish motives. 


(Readers may please refer and include the bhava significations 
of Jupiter for Rahu.) 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 


200 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


the Leo asc boms will gain friendship of sincere, generous, 
truthful and intelhgent friends and will expect things to happen 
through legal means. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 5 and 8 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
boms will: 


(i) have happy and harmonious relations with friends and 
would easily fall in love with opposite sex, will be 
interested in the fields of macro-arts and culture and 
enter into mutual and cordial agreements. 


(ii) face troubles in their desires, have tensions, get 
dissatisfactions and will be hasty in nature with wavering 
minds. 


XII House : Cancer 


Cancer, the fourth sign of Kaalchakra is the twelfth house to 
Leo. So the Leo asc boms will have benami properties like 
lands, vehicles and machines. 


Cancer is a watery sign. So the Leo asc borns will have the 
abihty to identify the water sources through research. 


Cancer is a movable sign. So the secret activities, unnecessary 
expenditures, capital investments and failures in the functioning 
of the body of the Leo asc bors will get developed day by day. 


Cancer is the house of Moon. So the Leo asc borns will spend 
their money at a faster rate, undertake voyages, hoard hquid 
articles and will have the pleasure of bed comforts. 


If the 12" house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Leo asc borns will involve in illegal and secret activities 
such as counterfeit, will be threatened and imprisoned legally 
and secretly, get into income-tax troubles, lose properties to 
government. 


Jupiter is also the lord of 5 and 8 houses to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will: 


(i) face breach of harmonious relations and mutual 


Teo 201 


agreements and incur high expenditure in the fields of 
arts and culture. 


(ii) face problems in all their secret activities, make undue 
expenditures to end in losses, attain disrespectful status, 
fall in coma, will face seizures of properties, hastily 
abscond and will show wavering of minds. 


If the 12 house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, 
the Leo ase boms will carry out their revenges secretly, will 
involve in hoardings, adulterations and concealing, make secret 
plans and involve in secret activities unworthy of their status. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 6 and 7 to Leo. So the Leo asc 
borns will: 


(i) have secret success, get into coma due to allergic foods, 
switch their profession as per their desires, suffer due to 
inability to diagnose disease and gain success after 
making undue expenditures. 


(ii) marry foreigners, live in separation from the society, 
hate others and will go for divorce. 


If the 12" house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Leo asc boras will invent micro instruments through secret 
researches, have secret notes and accounts, maintain income 
expenditure details, possess secret photographs and documents 
and enter into secret agreements. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 2 and 1] to Leo. So the Leo asc 
boms will: 


(O get back outstanding amounts, invest in gold and 
valuables, have secret sources of income and troubles 
in eyes and disorders in digestive system. 


(ii) become presidents of societies, enter into agreements 
on behalf of societies, have lucky opportunities of 
agreements and achievements, innovate and introduce 
new methods and act secretly in all aspects of their life. 


Astroiogics of kaalchakra 


Virgo 


General nature of the sign Virgo 


It is an earthy, common and feminine sign; even, barren, narrow 
and short sign: single house, night times, end part of a street; 
hospital; pharmacy; first aid; dress and food; grain godowns: 
library: gardens; black or grey in colour; city; south west in 
direction; calm and semi-fruitful sign; human; shows affinity; 
expertise. VI sign of Kaalchakra: house of Mercury. It denotes 
Bhadrapatha in Saka and Purattasi in Tamil calendars. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF VIRGO 


(a) Itis an Earthy sign :Soft natured body and mind, out- 
spoken, plump body, active in nature, affinity towards 
others, respectful. 


(b) Itis a Common sign :Fluctuating body and mind, fast 
changing structure, appearance and colour, changing 
characters and acts, short living anger. 


(c) It isa house of Mercury: Intelligent, quick in grasping, 
estimating the situation and adjustable to circumstances, 
mathematical brain with proper functioning of 
neurological system, cunning, thinking twice before 
doing once, lean and beautiful in structure, witty, quick 
and fast, unstable in nature. 


Virgo 203 


(d) It is VI house of Kaalchakra: Interested in the fields of 
diseases and medicine, dyes & chemicals, litigations, 
dresses, food and service for fees. 


In the same mamner, the remaining significations of Virgo could 
also be studied. 


The sign Virgo lasts for three stars leading to the following 
body natures. 


I. Uttarapalguni;: Owned by Sun : Body with strong bones. 
2. Hastha: Owned by Moon: Body with more water content. 
3. Chitra: Owned by Mars :Stout body with muscles. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, the 
Virgo asc borns will be majestic in appearance, have self-pride 
and prestige, strong bones in body, generous behaviour, authority, 
leadership and responsibilities. 


Sun is also the lord of 12th house to Virgo; So the Virgo asc 
borns will involve in secret activities, lose energy, abscond, 
sacrifice, investigate, suffer due to secret troubles and face 
failures and troubles. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the Virgo 
asc borns will be calm in appearance, quick but fluctuating in 
actions, adjustable, depending on others and unconscious about 
prestige, carry confusions in mind with more thoughts and will 
have a tendency to shirk their responsibilities. 


Moon is the lord of the 11th house to Virgo: the Virgo asc 
borns will be greedy, joyful, happy and selfish in nature, carry 
more desires, will be counsellors to societies, have fortunes and 
success, make achievements and will be co-operative with 
others. 


If the ascendant falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Virgo asc borns will be bold, proud, active and rough im 
appearance, obstinate, selfish, immoral, arrogant, violent, 
disobedient and short-tempered; will not respect the feelings of 
others. 


204 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Mars is also the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Virgo. So the Virgo asc 
borns will have, 


(i) wisdom, capabilities, self-efforts, courage, intelligence, 
informative, inclination towards education, self- 
transformation, self-confidence and interest in changing 
of places. 


(ii) pains and stress, disabilities, disrespects, threatening, 
suicidal tendencies, mental agony and confusions, 
mental retardation, being murdered, damaged or 
punished and deadliness. 


II House: Libra 


Libra is the II house to Virgo. It is the VII house to Kaalchakra. 
Hence the Virgo asc borns tends to talk more about women or 
opposite sex, sexual pleasures, wife and others. 


Since Libra is an airy and movable sign, the Virgo asc borns 
tends to attract others in their speech. They speak in easy terms 
but with self-pride; they tend to talk rnore about developments 
but will indirectly hurt the feelings of others. 


Since it is a house of Venus, the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Virgo, 
the Virgo asc boms will speak with research data and in an 
attractive manner with a touch of affinity 


Ill House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign to Kaalchakra is the III house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns will have a fear about others with 
cowardliness and mental confusions. They carry fear of death 
with tiredness in their agitated minds. They tend to suffer from 
loss of memory and suicidal tendencies. 


Scorpio is a fixed and watery sign; so the Virgo asc boms will 
be pessimistic and masochistic m nature with wavering mind 
and lack confidence; they will be afraid of water and will meet 
with accidents im water. 


Scorpio is a house of Mars, the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Virgo; 
So the Virgo asc borns will have troubles out of their writings 
and will have a cowardly mind full of confusions. 


IV House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the 9th house of Kaalchakra is the IV house to 
Virgo. So the Virgo asc borns will excel in education in the 
fields of transport, travels, finance, religion, research, teaching 
and law. 


Sagittarius is a common and fiery sign; so they may live in 
small and congested houses situated in the end part of a street 
and in the outskirts of city; may have to live in houses owned by 
other community people; they will not stay long in the same 
house; may complete their higher education after crossing over 
quite a few barriers. 


Since it is a house of Jupiter which is the lord of houses 4 & 7, 
they will become successful m their hves through experience; 
they will own vehicles and machinery. 


V House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Virgo; 
so the Virgo asc borns tend to fall in love with elderly persons 
or customers at offices or professional places with more interest 
in sexual pleasures. Their love affairs will result in mental agony 
to them. 


Capricorn is an earthy and movable sign; so the Virgo asc 
borns will progress in the fields of ancient arts, religion and 
culture. 


Capricorn is the house of Saturn which is the lord of houses 5 
& 6. So Virgo asc boms can make gains in the fields of politics, 
religion, astrology, prostitution, obscene dances and gambling. 


VI House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns will have short legs; they will serve in 
jobs with lesser workloads. They may have to face litigations in 
professional life; they will sufferdue to diseases due to vitamin 
deficiency. 


Aquarius is an airy and fixed sign; so the Virgo asc borns will 


206 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


suffer due to loss of weight and gastric problems in the body. 
They will reach amicable solutions and gain success with 
happiness. 


Since it is a house of Saturn, the lord of houses 5 & @to Virgo, 
the Virgo asc boms will suffer due to virus ‘disorders or due to 
leprosy; they may have to face disciplinary proceedings in their 
service. 


VII House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII house of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns will have secret relations and problems 
in the society to which they belong and they may be dissatisfied 
in marital hfe. 

Pisces is a common and watery sign; so the Virgo asc boms 
will have double-minded persons as, life or business partners; 
their friendships may not’ last long. 


It is a house of Jupiter, the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Virgo; so the 
Virgo asc boms will have soctdl affinity with their family but 
their spouses may lack interest in sexual pleasures. 


VIII House : Aries 


Aries, the ascendant of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc bom tend to get dejected due to their hasty 
decisions; have sleepless mghts, head-aches, loss of memory 
and energy etc. 


Aries is a movable and fiery sign; so the Virgo asc bom will 
meet with fire-accidents and they will have to face troubles in 
the initial phases of all their ventures in life. 


Aries is a house ru led by Mars which ts lord of houses of 3 & 8 
to Virgo; so the Virgo asc boms will get into mental agony in 
one or other crisis; they often tend to lose their mental balance: 


IX House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II house of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Virgo. So 
the Virgo asc borns will win confidence of others and would 
permanently face financial crisis; have academic excellence in 


i ee eee ee eee Bm EE =z me ee oo 


financial management; they would remain short in their physical 
structure. 


Taurus is a fixed but earthy sign; so the Virgo asc borns may 
have to study at foreign places or nations; they will show 
academic excellence in the fields of accountancy, auditing, 
finance, banking, registration and sale of diamonds and gold. 


Since Taurus is a house of Venus, which is the lord of houses 2 
& 9 to Virgo, the Virgo asc borns will involve themselves in 
the fields of foreign exchange, religious endowments, financial 
managements and international affairs. 


X House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III house of Kaalchakra is the X house to Virgo; 
So the Virgo asc borns will gain status and respect in the 
professions like courier, communications, posts & telegraphs, 
radio & television, electrical & electronics fields, plumbing and 
transports etc. 


Since Gemini is a common and airy sign, the status and respect 
of Virgo asc boms would not last long and they tend to influence 
others with their status and respect only for their personal gains. 


Gemini is a house of Mercury, which 1s the lord of houses 1 & 
10 to Virgo. So the Virgo asc boms will gain respect and status 
in their professional fields with their communication skills and 
public relations. 


XI House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV house to Kaalchakra is the XI house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns will remain in the joint family and would 
get into encumbrances in properties due to their greediness. 


Cancer is a movable but watery sign; so the desires of the Virgo 
asc boms will flow and recede as flood water. 


Since it is a house of Moon, the Virgo asc borns will have the 
satisfaction of owning numerous properties. 


208 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


XII House : Leo 


Leo, the V Sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc borns will maintain secrecy in their affairs of love 
and romance, in the fields of sports and gambling and about 
their children. 


Leo is a fiery and fixed sign; so the Virgo asc borns will get due 
returns to their capital through secret activities. 


It is a house of Sun. So the Virgo asc borns will be in possession 
of secret documents of the government or diaries of their fathers. 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF VIRGO UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT ___ 


II House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the II house of Virgo. So 
the Virgo asc borns will gain from their wives, business partners, 
customers and through others’ assistance. 


Libra is an airy sign; so the Virgo asc borns could make their 
earnings in a speedy way. But in the same speed, they would 
spend all their income. 


Libra is a movable sign; so the Virgo asc borns will gain through 
gold and other valuables. 


Since Libra is a house of Venus, the Virgo asc borns will gain 
in the fields of jewellery, cosmetics, silk garments, valuable 
artistic goods and diamonds. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Virgo asc borns will be spendthrifts, will not hesitate to tell lies 
for materialistic gains or to seize properties of others, dishonest 
in financial matters, gain from metals and coral omaments and 
use filthy words to hurt others’ feelings. 


Mars is the lord of 3rd & 8th houses to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc borns, 


(i) will gain with skills of eloquence and in investigative 
journalism, writings and courageous acts, information 


Virgo 209 


and communication, clever arguments and transfers, 
change and transform themselves for monetary and 
materialistic benefits, have confidence from their 
financial backgrounds, always carry inclinations for 
money and will work hard for financial benefits. 


(ii) will not hesitate to venture into robbery by assaulting 
or threatening others, will benefit out of old goods, gain 
by working in dirty places or as a hangman in jails or a 
worker in accident wards or mortuary in hospitals, gain 
in defamation cases, illegal activities, forgery, ingratitude 
acts , rapes and murders or by accepting bribery and gain 
through insurance claims or wills. 


If the 2na house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Virgo asc boms will gain through foreign scholarships, subsidies 
or as guides to foreigners and in international trade. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Virgo asc boms will gain by speaking truth and by respecting 
others in conversations, in teaching profession, in the fields of 
cash transactions, banks and jewellery shops. 


Jupiter is the lord of 4th & 7th houses to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc borns, 


(i) will gain through experience and education, fruits, 
vegetables, grain fields, farms, educational centres, 
hbrary and by taking lease of water reservoirs and ponds. 


(zi) will gain from social relations, business and life partners, 


banks, govemment subsidy, govemment recognition and 
through tax-evasions. 


HI House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the [II house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns will face one or other kinds of problems 
in their Communications, letters and information. 


Scorpio is a watery sign; so the Virgo asc boms will always 
carry wavering minds but will have a high degree of grasping 
power. 


210 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So the Virgo asc boms will naturally 
have courage, confidence and intelligence. Body functions, 
neurological system, writing skills, communications and public 
relations would remain stable and last longfor Virgo asc boms. 


Since Scorpio is a house of Mars, the Virgo asc boms tend to 
be over-confident and courageous; they would not hesitate to 
spread rumours and involve in forgery; include unwanted 
conditions in their agreements and would enter into illegal 
agreements. 


If the 3"¥ house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Virgo asc borns will involve themselves in documents and 
stamp papers and would enter ito negotiations of money 
transactions; rely on truthful information and enter into legally 
valid agreements; expect favours from orders and notices of 
courts of law 


Jupiter happens to be the lord of houses 4 & 7. So the Virgo 
asc boms, 


(i) will be weak in physical energy, complete certificate 
courses, will be vendors of fruits, vegetables, livestock, 
accessories and stationeries to educational institutions 
and involve themselves as brokers in the fields of lands, 
vehicles, properties and machineries. 


(ii) will get due recognition from society or government, 
gain through recommendation letters, possess 
documents and bank correspondences by way of their 
spouses, enter into partnership deeds and receive notices 
of tax rermbursements. 


If the 3:4 house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Virgo asc borns will be fearful, undertake frequent short 
journeys, have to walk a lot, will not hesitate to write anonymous 
letters and to forge documents and make frequent self-changes. 


Saturn is lord of the houses 5 & 6 to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc borns, 


(i) will involve in share-market, will have the ability to 
write in the fields of sports, religion, arts, culture and 


Virgo 21 


politics and will develop and broaden their wisdom and 
knowledge. 


(ii) will be successful in competitive exams, will be lab- 
technicians, serve in the fields of garments, food, 
medicine, house-keeping and law, work in accounts and 
auditing offices and will be collecting agents of house 
rent and lease amounts. 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Virgo asc borns will have the capabilities to write stories, 
poems and essays, will become registration or recording clerks, 
postmen, messengers, electricians, ambassadors, advertisers, tax 
collectors, proof-readers, brokers and will have fluctuating 
minds. 


Mercury is lord ofhouses 1 & 10 to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc borns, 


(i) will record their self and independent thoughts, show 
courageous attitude and power, tend to act according to 
will and pleasure and have strong physique with normal 
functioning of neurological and blood systems in the 
body along with ear, nose and throat. 


(ii) will receive orders for honorary posts, will do business 
with status, render responsible advice, information and 
counselling, receive appreciations for administrative 
abilities, earn advertisements through name and fame 
and will take oath to hold high posts. 


IV House : Sagittarius 


The IX house of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc borns will reside near temples, schools, colleges, law 
offices, post offices, telephone exchanges and government 
offices. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign; so the Virgo asc boms may have to 
live in traffic congested places. It is also a common sign; so the 
Virgo borns will not permanently keep their lands, vehicles, 
properties and machineries in possession. 


212 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


It is a house of Jupiter; so the properties of Virgo asc borns 
will legally hold their lands, houses, vehicles and properties 
and may become real estate owners, land Inspectors and produce 
food articles. 


If the 4* house falls in the star.of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the 
Virgo asc bors will illegally hold lands, house, vehicles and 
properties and forge goods, produce sub-standard goods and 
drugs. 

Ketu would act like Mercury. Mercury is the lord of houses 1 
& 10 to Virgo. So the Virgo asc borns, 


(i) will show courage in their acts, make independent 
purchases and increase their own strength. 


(ii) will become landlords, own industries and have vehicles 
by holding responsible and administrative posts. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Virgo asc borns will own forts and palaces, flower gardens, 
vegetable farms and art schools and will become manufacturers 
of cosmetics, films, plastics and glassware. 


Venus also happens to be the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Virgo. So 
the Virgo asc borns, 


(i) will make purchases of valuable and costly goods, own 
bungalows, store and Keep stock of goods and tend to 
keep things in their personal custody. 


(ii) will enter into contracts on properties, barter exchanges, 
imports and exports, form endowments, make organs 
for transplantation, earn foreign subsidy, and maintain 
relationships with foreigners. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Virgo asc borns will reside in government quarters, gain 
government pattas, will encroach government lands and own 
ponds or wells. 


Sun happens to be the lard of }2" house to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc borns will plan secretly for lands, house, vehicles and 


Virgo - 213 


properties, regain lost goods, stabilize income into properties, 
hve in hide-outs and rejoin their joint family. 


V House : Capricom 


Capricorn, the X house to Kaalchakra is the V house to Virgo. 
So the first child of Virgo asc borns will suffer due to ill health 
and. the Virgo asc borns would never succeed in their love affairs 
and excel in art fields but do jobs of easy nature. 


Capricorn is an earthy sign; so the Virgo asc borns will show 
commitment in their love affairs and carry interest in the fields 
of arts and culture. 


Capricorn is also a movable sign; so the Virgo asc boms tend 
to develop their love affairs and belief in god and will have ever 
growing wisdom and artistic talents. 


Since it is a house of Saturn, the Virgo asc borns will have lazy 
children and sexual pleasures with people who belong to lower 
strata, become sanyasis or guards in temple ponds and excel in 
sober characters in films and dramas. 


If the 5* house fallsin the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Virgo asc bors will be interested 1n politics and would 
frequently participate'in government functions and will be expert 
in playing chess. 


Sun happens to be the lord of 12* house to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc boms will have secret plans im their love affairs, fail or carry 
lack of interest in love affairs, secretly give birth to illegitimate 
child, get into compromise with separated partner, regain power 
and strength and secretly protect their child. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Virgo asc boms will excel in performing character roles, become 
poets and thinkers; have quick and happy copulations, visit 
recreation clubs, will be fond of playing cricket and have 
intelligent children. 


Moon happens to be the lord of 11th house to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc borns will be induced to learn arts with envy and 
greed, own lodges, open branches of societies enter into 


214 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


partnerships with societies, have fortunate agreements, have 
frequent and favourable opportunities and will be happy in the 
company of friends. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Virgo asc borns will be rough during copulations, have children 
with undue interest in sexual pleasures, will be atheists, 
sculptors, play boxing and will not hesitate to perform vulgar 
dances. 


Mars happens to be the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc boms, 


(i) will find themselves amidst press publicity about their 
artistic performances, publish books on arts and culture, 
enter into agreements for artistic performances, excel 
in art fields wherein tmagination of mind play a vital 
role and make changes in their transfer orders. 


(ii) will involve in rape and spoil self-respect and reputation, 
face seizures, repair old music instruments, lead dirty 
life, will be cheated and punished. 


VI House : Aquarius 


Aquartus, the XI house of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns will be successful in their professional 
fields; win fitigations in courts and capable of changing 
circumstances to their favour. 


Aquarius is an airy sign; so the Virgo asc borns will suffer due 
to respiratory problems and work in the fields of airlines, air 
force, radio, petrol or gas companies, research centres or dyeing 
factories. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign; so the dress, food, diseases and 
medicines, digestive system of the body, service, loans, 
htigations and success of the Virgo asc borns will remain more 
or less permanent. 


Aquarius 1s a house of Saturn; so the Virgo asc boms will 
have to undertake cheap works as daily labourer, work as office 


Virgo 215 


boys in garment shops, law offices, medical shops and hotels, 
acquire short term loans, suffer due to skin diseases and serve 
as announcers. 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Dhanishta, rnled by Mars, the 
Virgo asc borns will suffer due to muscle pains, work in 
factories, become medical practitioners or produce medicines, 
undertake physical labour and may become cooks or tailors. 


Mars happens to be the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc borns, 


(i) will serve in the fields of information, communication, 
publicity and advertising, publish books on profession, 
work to their strength, enter into agreements will serve 
as clerks and receive orders of appointments or transfers. 


(ii) will be prepared to render hard labour, undertake jobs 
of hard labour, disrespect and dishonour; repair old 
goods and work under poor conditions with heavy 
workload. 


If the VI house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Virgo asc borns will suffer due to respiratory disorders, will 
be gluttons, work in drug centres or as anaesthetists, manufacture 
respiratory aids, involve in the fields of liquors, narcotics and 
spices. 


(Readers may please refer and include the house significations 
of Jupiter for Rahu.) 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Virgo asc borns will work in big organizations, banks, 
medical shops, nutrition department and law offices, will avail 
loans with the recommendation of popular personalities, lead 
feasts and festivals, will be fond of fatty foods and suffer due to 
cholesterol and tissue disorders. 


Jupiter happens to be the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc borns, 


(i) will serve in the fields of lands, house, vehicles & 
properties, food processing, livestock, schools, 


216 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


household articles and furniture and will be energetic. 


(ii) will serve in social institutions and voluntary 
organizations, will be agents for government servants, 
become marriage brokers and will serve in labour 
welfare offices. 


VII House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Virgo. So 
the Virgo asc boms tend to spy their spouses or business partners; 
relationships between the partners would carry fluctuations; their 
business partner would maintain secrecy towards Virgo asc 
boms. 


Pisces is a watery sign; so the Virgo asc boms will have spouses 
or business partners who would have a tendency to change 
themselves according to situations. 


Pisces is a common sign; so life partners of Virgo asc bors 
will have fluctuating relationships with spouses or business 
partners or with their customers. 


Pisces is a sign of Jupiter; so the Virgo asc boms will have 
understanding and flexible life partners, business partners, 
customers and popular persons of society. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Virgo asc boms will have cordial and harmonious social 
relationships and may live in a big joint family. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc boms, 


(i) will have social relationships with relatives and the 
neighbours and will leave their lands, vehicles and 
properties at the care and maintenance of relatives. 


(ii) will frequently meet with unknown persons, social 
workers, agents for government, marriage brokers, 
public works contractors, public relations officer and 
customers. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 


the Virgo asc boms will have indisciplined, untruthful, doubtful, 
wavering natured spouses, business partners and customers. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 5 & 6 to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc boms, 


(i) will have social relationships with lovers, artists, 
painters, singers, astrologers, religious servants, priests, 
prostitutes, pimps and hermits. 


(ii) will have social relationships with bank officers, 
bankers, servants, patients, doctors, cooks, lawyers, 
separated persons and suffer due to contagious diseases. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
thé Virgo asc borns will have witty, cunning and research- 
oriented spouses and partners; have social relationships with 
mediators & educationists. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 1 & 10 to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc boms, 


(i) will submit themselves to collective thoughts and listen 
to others, will be successful in teamwork, become weak 
due to lack of immunity, face stiff oppositions, dependent 
on others in actions, suffer due to problems in lower 
abdomen and uterus and, have frequent social 
relationships with known persons. 


(ii) will have social relationships with colleagues, executive 


officers, bureaucrats, persons with authority and power, 
trade unionists and dealets. 


VIII House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns will frequently be threatened or charged 
with allegations or betrayed or confused or put into disrespect. 


Aries is a fiery sign leading to damages in muscles to the Virgo 
asc borns; they may face assaults or meet with accidents or 
commit suicide or may become mad and violent. 


Aries is a movable sign; so the Virgo asc borns will have long 


218 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


life; their sorrows, pains, stress, problems, disrespect and 
meeting with accidents would last reasonably for a longer 
period. 


Mars is the lord of Aries; so the Virgo asc boms will involve 
themselves in petty quarrels, riots, struggles, violent activities, 
false allegations, crue! accidents, raping and murders, robbery 
and thefts, forgery, cheating, suicides, bomb blasts and handling 
weapons besides troubles caused by their brothers. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Aswant, ruled by Ketu, the 
Virgo asc boms will get into troubles by way of illegal activities; 
they may also be punished by law; they tend to cause troubles 
to others by black-mailing, harassing and by spreading rumours. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 1 & 10 to 
Virgo; so the Virgo asc boms, 


(i) will lose self-thoughts and mental balance leading to 
inactiveness, enter into struggles, suffer due to allergy, 
stress, pain or amputation, will become dependent to 
act and will have dejections and dissatisfactions. 


(ii) will face allegations in service, become corrupt in high 
posts and administrative capacity but would not hesitate 
to commit cheatings and forgery; lose name and fame 
and will have troubles in getting due promotions. 


If the 8m house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
name and fame of Virgo asc boms will be damaged by women; 
involve in threatening, kidnapping and raping of women leading 
to troubles and disrespect; will receive bad news from women. 


Venus happens to be the lard of houses 2 & 9 to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc borns, 


(i) will get into troubles thru their speech; suffer from 
allergy and will unexpectedly donate gold, valuables 
and money beyond their capacity. 

(ii) will be troubled in port contracts, imports and in teaching 
profession, meet with fire accidents in research centres; 
wind up trust and endowments, do forgery in temple 


Virgo 219 


properties, will be punishéd by court and the transfer 
orders of Virgo asc boms will be stayed. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
properties of Virgo asc borns will be seized or get damaged, 
will be punished by the government, their encroachments of 
common and government Jands will be removed by authorities, 
involve in criminal actions and meet with fire accidents. 


Sun is also the lord of I2* house to Virgo. So the Virgo asc 
boms will be troubled in secret plans, get dejected or cheated, 
become incapable of recovering back their capitals, fall 
unconscious in hospital, face break-even in financial status and 
will be troubled by separated partners. 


IX House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the 1X house to Virgo. So 
the Virgo asc horns will not stick to honesty in spite of their 
attempts to win confidence of others in conversations; get into 
troubles with their ancestral properties and always find 
themselves amidst financial troubles and worries. 


Taurus is an earthy sign; so the Virgo asc boms will not like to 
disclose their knowledge to the world in spite of deep knowledge 
and research capacity; they will maintain relationships and 
communications with foreigners and may end up as polygynists. 


Taurus is a fixed sign; so the higher education, travels, life at 
foreign country, research ventures, polygamy, levels of 
confidence of the Virgo asc borns will remain steady and stable. 


Taurus is a house of Venus: so the Virgo asc boms will involve 
themselves in the fields of transport, higher education and 
research of arts and culture; will arrange stages for festivals and 
will have illegal affairs with foreigners or teachers. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Virgo asc boms will involve themselves in the fields of rehgion, 
departments of higher education, foreign embassy, government 
research centre, finance departments and foreign organisations. 


Sun is also the lord of 12* house to Virgo. So the Virgo asc 


220 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


borns will incur expenditure in secret affairs and new ventures; 
face financial crisis, spend money on religious endowments, 
become incapable of liquidating their capital, find hidden things 
and study research education. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Virgo asc borns will be quick in their research capacity, have 
affairs with widows, ftnd new things in research, involve 
themselves in shipping or money lending and may become as 
professors. 


Moon is also the lord of 11* house to Virgo. So the Virgo asc 
borns will study post-graduate courses, hold comfortable and 
honorary posts, gain success in research attempts with burning 
desires, make achievements in research fields, will be fond of 
taking fatty food, gain name and fame, wtll be active in 
associations and have fortunate opportunities in hfe. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Virgo asc borns will learn and study agriculture, geology, 
mechanical engineering, history, archaeology, and politics and 
will become head masters, transport owners, landlords and 
judges on criminal litigations. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Virgo. So the Virgo asc 
boms, 


(i) will think beyond their capacity, get press publicity to 
earn goodwill, involve in the fields of information and 
communication, publish books on education, show 
interest in mathematics, have deep memory power, make 
barter exchanges and will become mediators. 


(ii) will be threatened in illegal affairs, get cheated in their 
ancestral properties, commit mistakes in research, find 
difficulties in higher education, will be disturbed by 
foreign agencies, fail in accords and agreements and 
will be troubled in foreign journeys. 


Virgo 221 


X House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III house of the Kaalchakra is the-X house to Virgo. 
So the Virgo asc borns: will excel in their professional life and 
in the fields of communication, information, advertising, 
publicity and electrical engineering. 


Gemini is an airy sign; so the Virgo asc boms will serve in jobs 
wherein presence of mind is a prime requirement and in the 
fields of airhnes, radio & TV. 


Gemini is a common sign; the profession, status, honour, higher 
posts of the Virgo asc boms will see many fluctuations. 


Gemini is a sign of Mercury; so the Virgo asc borns will do 
business With green coloured articles, handle micro instruments 
and computers, sell stationeries and notebooks, handle 
measuring instruments, mercury and weighing scales, pipes, rods 
If the 10* house fallsin the star of Mrigasira, the star of Mars, 
the Virgo asc boms will hold responsible and administrative 
posts in industries, fire-related professions, lands, buildings, 
police and military. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Virgo. So the Virgo asc 
boms, 


(i) will be in those professions which require apphcation 
of mind beyond their capacity, act as brokers, will be in 
the fields of communications and agreements and will 
become printers, publishers, plumbers and electrical 
staff. 


(ii) will involve in criminal proceedings, deal in scraps, 
modify and repair old goods and involve in thefts and 
rapes. 


If the I10* house falls in the star of Arudra, the star of Rahu, the 
Virgo asc boms will be mvestigation officers: work in prisons 
or foreign exchange centres or foreign employment agencies, 
will be translators, magicians, shoe-makers or computer hackers. 


(Readers may please include and refer the house significations 


222 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


of Jupiter for Rahu.) 


If the 10" house fallsin the star of Punarvasu, the star of Jupiter, 
the Virgo asc borns will hold responsible and honorary posts in 
macro-organisations, banks, child welfare organisations, 
currency notes printing division, ancient memorials or gold 
mines. 

Jupiter is also the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc borns, 


(i) will manufacture goods, will be agriculturists or 
labourers in buildings and factories, will become 
carpenters, cleaners and Will involve with vehicles and 
automobiles, water tanks, fertilizers, grain fields, fruit 
gardens, farms and godowns; 


(zi) will serve in voluntary and social service organisations, 
will become marriage brokers or labour contractors and 
will do partnership ventures. 


Xi House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house of Virgo. So 
the Virgo asc boms will carry unlimited desires of their own 
and may create litigations in their properties. 


Cancer is a watery sign; so the Virgo asc boms will tend to 
help others and would maintain affinity towards others besides 
being joyous personalities. 


Cancer is a movable sign; so the desires, happiness and 
expectations of the Virgo asc borns will have multiplying and 
growing in nature. 


Cancer is a house of Moon; so the Virgo asc boms will have 
many friends with confusing nature; will become satisfied 
cheaply, will be selfish and fond of drinks. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Virgo asc borns will have truthful, generous and 
knowledgeable friends or sons-in-law and daughters-in-law and 
will expect and fulfil their desires only through legal means. 


Virgo ° 22 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Virgo; so the Virgo 
asc boms, 


(i) will make purchases according to their desires, face 
litigations in their properties and frequent break-downs 
in their vehicles and the articles purchased by them 
would soon end up as useless. 


(ii) will select spouse of their choice to marry, have social 
affinity and frequently meet with people of their choice. 


If the 11 house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, 
the Virgo asc borns will have lazy, undisciplined, dishonest and 
untruthful friends or sons-in-law; acquire properties with 
litigations and would get things through dishonest means. 


Saturn also happens to be the lord of houses 5 & 6 to Virgo; So 
the Virgo asc boms, 
(i) will have cordial relationships, enter into mutual 
agreements and will be interested in the fields of arts 
and culture. 


(ii) will gain success in fulfilling their desires; suffer due to 
vitamin deficiencies; join in the job of their choice and 
will always have opportunities of success. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Virgo asc borns will have witty friends; like micro 
instruments and will read books of their choice. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 1 & 10 to Virgo. So the 
Virgo asc borns, 


(i) will always think about themselves with pride and have 
prowing desires, happily show their commitments; have 
independent opinions and imaginations and will be 
gluttons. 


(ii) will become leaders of societies, have fortunate 
opportunities and agreements, maintain secrecy in doing 
things and make innovations and achievements. 


224 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


XII House : Leo 


Leo, the V house of Kaalchakra 1s the XII house to Virgo. So 
the Virgo asc boms will spend on secret love affairs, their 
children and for drug and liquor addictions. 


Leo is a fiery sign; so the Virgo asc borns will have secret 
interests, will not hesitate to involve in sabotages and will 
become masochists. 


Leo is a fixed sign; so the secret activities ,expenditures, capital, 
bed comforts and failure of metabolism of the Virgo asc boms 
would remain stable. 


Leo is a sign of Sun. So the Virgo asc borns will serve in the 
departments of investigation, customs and excise, sales tax, 
prison, audit, health, mortuary and in the offices of enforcements, 
punishments and seizures. 


If the 12" house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
Virgo asc borns will have secret interests in illegal activities, 
will carry out secret plans and secretly show their vengeance. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 1 & 10 to 
Virgo. So the Virgo asc borns, 


(i) will lose physical energy, have pessimistic approach, 
show frustrations in their jobs, suffer due to allergy, will 
not care about self, lack imagination and will take pains 
in their jobs. 


(ii) will hold responsible posts secretly, accept works with 
heavy workload and undertake works of dual nature. 


If the 12* house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by 
Venus, the Virgo asc borns will have secret marriage or affairs, 
have secret and unwritten agreements with women and will hide 
things. 

Venus is also the lord of houses 2 & 9.to Virgo. So the Virgo 
asc borns, 


Virgo 225 


(i) will be able to collect outstanding money, suffer due to 
eye-diseases and digestion problems, invest in gold and 
valuables and will have secret sources of income. 


(ii) will spend on social and voluntary organisations; have 
secret links with foreign countries or high officials; 
secretly become polygynists, have difficulties in 
continuing higher education and involve in research 
activities. 


If the 12* house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Virgo asc boms will incur losses in their secret activities; 
will become incapable of recovering their capital, benanii 
properties and outstanding money; maintain secret interests and 
will continue with their research activities. 


226 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Libra 


General nature of the sign Libra 


It is an airy, movable, masculine, singular sign; golden in colour; 
long ascension; intelligent and understandable nature; It denotes 
kidney and uterus in the body; semi-fruitful, higher planes and 
windy places, lifeless, moving natured, early mornings, main 
roads, commercial streets, popular persons, womanisers, 
literature, music and drama, research, self-pride, VII sign of 
Zodiac, west in direction, Ashwina in Saka or Aippasi in Tamil 
calendars. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF LIBRA 


(a) It is an airy sign: Self-pride, sportive in nature & lack 
of seriousness, lean structured, acting as if affectionate. 
(b) Itis a movable sign: Developing nature in anger, talents, 


structure and appearance of the body, memory power, 
activeness, colour and beauty. 


(c) Itis a house of Venus: Beautiful, attractive and glamorous 
in appearance, fond of cosmetics and perfumes, 
collection of gold and valuables, interested in self- 
beautification and having a high sense of touch. 


(d) Itis VU house of Kaalchakra : Thoughtful about the 
society, dependent on others, thinking always about 
others and the opposite sex. 


Libra "227 


In the same manner, the remaining significations of Libra could 
also be studied. 


The sign Libra extends over three stars leading to the following 
body natures. 


L Cltitra’: Owned by Mars: Heat borne body 
2. Swathi :OQwned by Rahu: Tall and broad appearance 
3. Vishakha: Owned by Jupiter: Stout and fleshy body 


If the asc falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the Libra 
asc borns will be bold in their activities, short tempered with 
self pride, will not give due respect and would not listen to others; 
will be rough in appearance; will become immoral and arrogant. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns, 


(i) will be naturally talented with eloquent speech, will 
improve their capacity and will adapt to circumstances. 


(it) will have social relations, gain social recognitions, 
depend on others and will be bound by law. 


If the asc falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the Libra 
asc borns will have the habit of great thinking and acts will 
suffer due to respiratory disorders, fond of excessive intake of 
food, liquor, drugs and women and will become fatty with 
dissimilarities in the organs of the body. 


Since the node Rahu does not own any sign in Zodiac, we can 
include the house significations of Jupiter for comprehension. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, the 
Libra asc borns will have true and honest thoughts, will be 
obedient and intelligent, earn status, will be self-confident and 
will be flexible with others. 


Jupiter happens to be the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Libra. So the 
Libra asc borns, 


(i) will have intelligence and capacity, show self-efforts 
with confidence, have courage, will be informative, will 


228 Astrologics of kaalch akra 


become messengers, have inclination towards education 
and will not hesitate to adapt to the requirements. 


(it) will become successful in efforts, may face marital 
separation, will have sound health, practice medicines, 
exercise personal labour and exhibit style in dressing 
and dining. 


II House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns tend to use vulgar words; get into troubles 
by way of their controversial, self-contradictory, untruthful and 
irritating speech. 

Scorpio is a watery and fixed sign; so the Libra asc borns will 


be artificial in their speech and dominantly try to establish false 
things as truth with their eloquent speech. 


Since it is a house rnled by Mars, the Libra asc borns will not 
hesitate for wordy duels and involve in false propaganda about 
others. 


II House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the [X sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns will become more social and will have 
more public relationships. 


This house is a common and fiery sign; So the Libra asc borns 
will show arrogance in their behaviour, will face instability in 
communications and will enter into short-term agreements. 


Since Sagittarius is a house of Jupiter, the Libra asc borns 
will have needed courage and confidence for success and will 
be interested in martial arts. 


IV House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the }V house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns will show interest in studying about 
lands, vehicles, machineries, manufacturing, automobiles and 
education. 


Tibra 229 


Since it is an earthy and movable sign, the Libra asc borns will 
show increased interest in their studies. 


It is a house of Saturn. So the Libra asc borns will excel in arts 
and beautician courses. 


V House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI house of Kaalchakra is the V house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns tend to fall in love with elderly persons 
or with people living in the same apartments or compounds or 
with people within famtly or sub-sect; they may have frustrations 
in their sexual life and they tend to be indecent and perverted in 
sexual affairs. 


Since this ts an airy and fixed sign, the Libra asc borns will 
show interest with greediness and will not be sincere to others. 


It is a house of Saturn. So the Libra asc borns will have 
dissatisfactions in many aspects of their life and would like to 
lead their life like a sanyasi. 


VI House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII house of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc boms will have short legs and suffer due to 
vitamin deficiencies or in service-related diseases; they may 
fail in court cases regarding their service matters and serve in 
posts with easy workload. 


This is a watery and common sign. So the Libra asc borns will 
suffer due to excessive fats or liquids in the body; gain success 
but only after undue expenditure and show fluctuations and 
uncompromising attitudes in their activities. 

Since it is a house of Jupiter, the Libra asc borns will suffer 
due to secret diseases in nerves and blood vessels; enter into 
litigations in their professions and in investments. 


VII House: Aries 


Aries, the I sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Libra. So the 
Libra asc borns will have social relations with popular persons 


230 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


and people belonging to higher status; they will have dominating 
spouses/business partners and will depend on others. 


This house is a movable and fiery sign; so the Libra asc boms 
will have long standing relations and will deploy their spouses/ 
business partners to administer and assist in their ventures. 


Since Aries is a house of Mars, the Libra asc boms will torture 
their life partners or people belonging to opposite sex; expect 
undue gains from their life partners and will lack social 
discipline. 


VIII House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc bom will suffer due to eye-diseases and will always 
have troubles in the matters of money and valuables. 


Taurus is a fixed but earthy sign. So the Libra asc boms will 
have to face problems of one kind or the other and will not 
hesitate to commit forgery. 


Taurus is a house of Venus; so the Libra asc boms will show 
anger and hastiness and will tend to get confused by taking 
personal pains. 


IX House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the [X house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc boms will excel in higher studies and in the 
faculties of information and communication, accounting and 
auditing, transport, imports and exports. 


Since Gemmi is a common and airy sign, the Libra asc borns 
will study at foreign countries. They will excel in advertising, 
research education, accountancy and auditing, will become 
writers and will enter into agreements full of fluctuations. 


Since Gemini is a house of Mercury, the Libra asc boms will 
excel in the fields of trade and foreign exchange, financial 
management, international affairs and religious endowments. 


Libra 231 


X House : Cancer 


Cancer, the [IV house of Kaalchakra is the X house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns will gain status and respect in the fields 
of land, transport, automobile, machinery, agriculture, farms, 
gardens, wells and water reservoirs. 


Cancer is a movable and watery sign; so the Libra asc borns 
will use their influences of status, respect and authority for their 
professional needs. 


Cancer is the house of Moon. So the Libra asc borns will gain 
status through sudden professional ventures. 


XI House: Leo 


Leo, the V house of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc born will become polygynists and will have desires 
in art, culture and sports fields. 


Leo is a fixed and fiery sign; So the Libra asc borns will have 
never ending sexual desires. 


Since Leo is the house of Sun, the Libra asc boms will find 
many friends among government servants. 


XII House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI house of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns will become debtors due to secret 
activities and suffer due to secret diseases. 


Since Virgo is an earthy and common sign, the Libra asc borns 
will show fluctuations in their secret activities and will show 
interest in archealogy and m finding the secrets of nature. 


Virgo is a house of Mercury. So the Libra asc borns will visit 
many foreign countries, spend on religious matters, have illegal 
and multiple affairs and will have research minds. 


232 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF LIBRA UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT 


II House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns will be troubled frequently in their 
fmancial matters; they would not hesitate to accept bribes and 
would improve their financial status against moral codes. 


Scorpio is a watery sign; so the Libra asc borns would easily 
be able to mobilize finance from multiple sources. 


Since Scorpio is a fixed sign, gold and other valuables, 
diamonds, documents and money would remain permanent in 
the hands of Libra asc borns. 


Since Scorpio is a house of Mars, the Libra asc borns are 
spendthrifts, will not hesitate to tell hes for financial gains, 
dishonest in financial matters, like to wear coral ornaments and 
possess valuable metals. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Libra asc boms will have free flow of finance, disclose 
truth in financial matters, have jewellery shops, run private banks 
and own gold and other valuables. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns, 


(i) will gain through writings and publications of religious 
and medical articles, gain through courage and 
intelligence, gain confidence through money, change 
themselves for want of money and gain through 
information, communications and transfers. 


(ii) will gain by winning competitions, get medical subsidy 
or claims, gain through food articles, tailoring, rents, 
hire articles, manufacturing of medicines, court cases, 
salary and manual labour and in money exchanges. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Libra asc boms will be misers, gain small and meagre 
amounts and like to seize valuables from others. 


Tibia 233 


Saturn is the lord of houses 4 & 5 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc boms will, 


(i) gain through education, vegetables and fruits, grain 
fields, farms and by taking lease of ponds and water 
reservoirs. 


(ii) gain through shares, religious rituals and devotional! 
services, arts, cultural activities, sports, intelhgence, 
imagination, prostitution, beauty and in love affairs. 


If the I house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, the 
Libra asc bors will gain through witty speeches, mimicry and 
by rendering commentaries, greenish stones, micro-instruments 
and negotiable instruments. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 9 & 12 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc boms, 


(i) will gain from ancestral properties, name and fame, 
honesty, education, leadership, research, foreigners, 
sending messages, religious service, endowments, 
transplantations, legal proceedings, agreements, temple 
properties and ancient monuments. 


(ii) will gain in secret activities or by hoardings or through 
their own savings, regain properties that were lost, will 
be able to recollect outstanding amounts and by losing 
organs. 


IH‘House : Sagittartus 


Sagittarius, the [X house to Kaalchakra is the II house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc bors will think much about informations, 
communications and illegal affairs. 


Sagittarius is a fiery house, the Libra asc boms will be bold, 
courageous and confident in communications but will also be 
arrogant in actions. 


Sagittarius is a common sign, the Libra asc borns will see 
fluctuations in their courage, confidence, communications, blood 
vessels, writings, intelligence and transfers. 


234 Astroiogics of kaalchakra 


Sagittarius is a house of Jupiter, the Libra asc borns will enter 
into legal agreements, issuance of legal notices and legal orders; 
deal in documents, stamps and cheques. 


If the 3:4 house falls in the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the 
Libra asc borns will involve in forging documents and cheques, 
spreading rumours, filing criminal cases, misappropriation of 
accounts and writing anonymous letters. 


Ketu, the node does not own any sign; it acts like Mercury, the 
lord of houses 9 & 12 to Libra. So the Libra asc boms will, 


(i) enter into rehable agreements and money exchanges, 
get certified in higher education, enjoy fame, receive 
orders for holding higher posts, maintain affinity towards 
foreigners, send messages, involve in government 
religious endowments, make transplantation of organs, 
have international contacts, become clerks in legal 
departments, negotiate for endowments, act as guides 
in ancient monuments and take lease of temple 
properties. 


(ii) gain information in secret activities, lose physical energy, 
lose evidences that were kept secret, gain documents 
for outstanding money, lose documents against savings, 
lose belongings and will permanently separate from 
family subsequent to temporary separations. 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Poorvashada,.ruled by Venus, 
the Libra asc boms Will get happy information, contacts, letters, 
agreements and brokerage, write with imagination and involve 
in cine fields. 


Venus is also the lord of houses I & 8 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) record self-thoughts in diary, have courageous thoughts, 
excellent functioning of nerves, blood vessels and ENT, 
show their physical strength and will perform as they 
wish. 


(ii) seize properties through harassments, steal documents 
and research notes, sell old articles, write obscene or 


Libra 235 


threatening letters, enter into agreements to murder, 
work in accident wards or hospital mortuary, accept 
bribes, work in anti-corruption wing, provide false 
information, have sudden mental changes subsequent 
to black-magic and cheatings, will involve in insurance 
documents. 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Libra asc boms will involve in government orders, serve in 
govemment departments of information and communication, 
have authority to represent government and will have the details 
ofthe state/country. 


Since Sun is also the lord of the J1™ house to Libra, the Libra 
asc boms will keep things greedily, receive happy news, involve 
in happy discussions, get due recognition through societies, have 
personal likings, get fortunate information, get certified for 
success and achievements and will be blessed with friends of 
their choice. 


IV House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X house of the Kaalchakra is the IV house to 
Libra. So the Libra asc borns will find their professions in the 
fields of land, house, buildings, vehicles, machinery and 
manufacturing; mostly they will live in or near their professional 
addresses and in the first part of commercial streets. 


Capricorn is an earthy sign; so the Libra asc bors will do 
agriculture and will have pet animals. 


Capricorn is a movable sign meaning the developments of 
education, house, lands, vehicles, machinery and belongings of 
the Libra asc boms. 


Saturn is the lord of the sign, Capricorn. So the Libra asc 
boms will own mines, old buildings, village common lands, 
wooden articles, black coloured articles, oil seeds and clay 
articles. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Libra asc borns will live in government buildings, have 


236 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


government vehicles, study in government institutions, own 
village common lands, may work in forest departments, 
automobile divisions of the government, take lease of common 
ponds, wells, water tanks; have government machinery, 
properties, agricultural lands or godowns for storing grain fields. 


Sun is the lord of 1] house to Libra. So the Libra asc borns 
will accumulate properties with greediness, build bungalows, 
organise clubs, construct buildings through societies or unions, 
have fortunate house or articles, get gift articles through success, 
make achievements in productions and will enjoy the visits of 
dear friends. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Libra asc borns will live near water reservoirs and dams, 
agricultural lands; will own boats, refrigerators; produce 
vegetables and fruits with excessive water content. 


Moon is the lord of the 10 house; so the Libra asc borns will 
be landlords; own industries, will be responsible for government 
documents, hold responsible posts in administrative capacity 
and will earn name and fame. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Libra asc boms will have to be forced during primary education 
and will be interested in land, house and vehicles, will be 
interested in agriculture and production of livestock and will 
work with chemicals and fertilizers. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) purchase valuable and household articles, purchase gold 
and other valuables, construct bungalows and will 
possess things as personal. 


(ii) become a member of society, hve in quarters, get lands 
or houses as donations from government, have 
understanding spouse in joint family, purchase properties 
through loans from banks and will rejoin with guests or 
partners. 


Tibra " "237 


V House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Libra. 
So the Libra asc borns will have healthy children, cordial love 
affairs and will excel in the fields of arts and culture. 


Aquarius is an airy sign; so the Libra asc borns will excel as 
comedy artists, story-writers, sportsmen and riddle-makers. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign; so the number of blood cells, wisdom 
and knowledge, artistic interests, children, faith in god of the 
Libra asc borns would remain stable and steady. 


Since Saturn is the lord of this sign, the Libra asc borns will 
have sexual affairs with people belonging to lower strata, become 
insincere in love affairs, will not hesitate to involve in 
prostitution, become sanyasis, excel in sober characters, have 
lazy children and may become guards at temples and ponds. 


If the 5* house fells in the star of Dhanishta, mled by Mars, the 
Libra asc boms will be arrogant m sexual affairs, have children 
with unusual sexual interests, act with obscenity, will not have 
faith in god and may become sculptors, painters, boxers or filthy 
dancers. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) purchase artistically valuable goods, musical records or 
useful musical mstruments or golden ornaments, gain 
commissions, maintain and arrange house or office or 
things in an artistic manner and lear arts without any 
purpose. 

(ii) maintain cordial relations with society, live in 
government quarters for artists, get musical instruments 
as donations from government, have guest houses, 
associate in voluntary organizations, rejoin with partners 
and would go for love marriage. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Libra asc boms will have sexual affairs with foreigners, 
will do prostitution in foreign countries, have intentions to 


238 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


gamble, become swimmers or sprinters and may become 
addicted to drinks. 


(Since Rahu does not own any house, the significations of house 
owned by Jupiter could be included for comprehensive study) 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Libra asc borns will have religious interests, faith in god, 
god-fearmg children with discipline, will be true to their love 
affairs, become priests, politicians or religious servants, excel 
in arts with intuition and wisdom and carry blessings of god. 


Jupiter is the lord of the houses 3 & 6 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) get press publicity, publish books on arts, serve in 
advertising agencies; will be educated and qualified in 
the fields of arts and culture, get transfer orders of their 
choice, excel in artistic fields wherein mind plays a vital 
role and will become doctors for artificial fertilization. 


(ii) run competitive centres of arts and culture, become 
paediatricians, involxe in diagnosis of blood ceHs, 
become nurses or servants in cinema theatres, prepare 
feasts, become costume designer, manufacture natural 
medicines, work for commissions, reside in lodges and 
become orators. 


VI House: Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc borns will make undue expenditures in their 
professional fields, clear debts through additional borrowings 
and will have to acquire loans to meet out expenditures regarding 
court cases, diseases and on behalf of their servants. 


Pisces is a watery sign leading to water-borne diseases to Libra 
asc borns; they may serve in the fields wherein liquids are used. 


Pisces is acommon sign; so the Libra asc borns will experience 
fluctuations in the fields of food, dresses, medicines, debts, 
success, litigations, service conditions, diseases and functioning 
of digestive system. 


Libra 239 


Pisces is house of Jupiter. So the Libra asc borns will serve in 
big organisations, banks, medical institutions and legal 
departments; frequently attend feasts, fond of fatty foods, suffer 
due to cholesterol and cell diseases, get loans throngh 
recommendations of popular persons and have opportunities to 
preside over public functions. 


If the 6 house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Libra, the Libra asc borns will, 


(1) get publicity abont their success, publish books on 
profession, work (may be as clerks) in the fields of 
information, communication and advertising, enter into 
professional agreements, get appointment or transfer 
orders, work in fields of their personal choice and will 
confidently increase production. 


(ii) serve in centres for competitive examinations or in 
hospitals, will do tailoring or weaving or become chefs, 
serve in lodges or in legal departments (labour courts). 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Libra asc borns will do subordinate or class [TV jobs, work 
for daily wages or as office boys in tailoring shops, textile shops, 
medical shops and law offices, become announcers, suffer due 
to skin diseases and could get loans only in small amounts. 


Since Saturn is the lord of houses 4 & 5 to Libra, the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(1) serve mostly for daily wages in the fields of lands, 
houses, livestock, vehicles and buildings, become cooks, 
teachers, household manufacturers, furniture makers and 
will arrange stages for music and dance programs. 


(11) serve in stock exchanges, chant Vedas on the occasions 
of religious rituals, manufacture sports goods, become 
pimps or proof readers of books on arts, serve in sports 
centres or anditoriums, marriage registration offices or 
prostitution dens or in liquor bars. 


If the 6m house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 


240 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


the Libra asc boms will serve mostly as accountants in 
commercial centres; become collectors of money or taxes, 
contractors for labour, computer operators , neurologists, printers 
and hire-purchase agents. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 9 & 12 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc bors will, 


(i) become contractors in ports, work in personnel or 
research departments, become educationists or priests 
and may serve in trusts, temples, foreign agencies, courts 
of law, panchayat offices or archaeological offices. 


(ii) acquire loans through secret plans, clear debts by 
acquiring further loans, regain what was lost, serve in 
hospitals, become inactive due to diseases, have 
breakeven in income and expenditures and will be sued 
by separated partner. 


VII House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc borns will show more affinity towards their 
spouses and would mostly depend on them adding to the self- 
pride and egoistic attitudes of their spouses and business partners. 


Aries is a fiery sign; so the spouses and business partners of 
Libra asc boms would mostly be with immoral characters with 
excessive interest in sexual affairs. 


Aries is a movable sign; it reflects the developments of spouses, 
business partners and customers; it also ensures a high sense of 
touch for Libra asc borns. 


Aries is the sign of Mars. So the Libra asc boms will have 
immoral and arrogant spouses and business partners who will 
threaten public and will be compelled to seek assistance from 
others. 


If the 7m house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Libra asc boms will have spouses and business partners with 
cunningness and meet with criminals. 


Libra 241 


Ketu does not own any sign but will act like Mercury, the lord 
of houses 9 & 12 to Libra. So the Libra asc boms will, 


(i) have social contacts with politicians, foreigners, 
exporters, judges, priests, trustees and teachers and with 
people of lower social standing. 


(ii) often meet with thieves, with people who know the 
secrets of Libra asc boms and would be threatened by 
them, have social contacts with people who are going 
to cause losses and with people who would help them 
in investments. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Libra asc borns will have attractive spouses and business 
partners, meet with persons of joy and have enthusiastic 
customers or women. 


Venus is the lord of houses I & 8 to Libra. So the Libra asc 
boms will, 


(i) abide by collective thoughts and become successful, 
listen to others, suffer due to contagious diseases in 
kidneys, uterus and abdomen regions, inactive due to 
deficiency of immunity power, face growing 
oppositions, lack independence in actions, bring enmity 
in their actions and often meet with persons known to 
them. 

(ii) meet with cheating criminals, enemies, murderers, 


thieves, terrorists, agents for bribery and insurance 
officials. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Libra asc borns will mostly meet with government officials 
and public servants and will have life/business partners with 
arrogance and self-pride. 


Sun is the lord of 11" house to Libra. So the Libra asc borns 
will meet with people of their choice, have true and sincere 
friends and meet with elderly people who would show interest 
, HI personal developments of Libra asc borns. 


242 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


VII House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc borns will face threatening, allegations, disrespect, 
confusions in financial matters. 


Taurus is an earthy sign. So the Libra asc borns will face 
dejections in family relations and face troubles due to natural 
calamities such as earthquakes, landslides etc. 


Taurus is a fixed sign; so the Libra asc boms will have long 
life but will permanently be endangered with accidents, stress, 
pain, disrespect and worries. 


Taurus is a house of Venus. So the Libra asc borns will be put 
into disrespect by women, threaten and be troubled by women, 
lose happiness and abduct women. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Libra asc borns will seize government documents, their 
properties will be seized by government, live in government 
buildings, will face damages to properties, will be punished by 
government, involve in criminal activities or may get into fire- 
accidents. 


Sun is also the lord of 11™house to Libra. So the Libra asc 
boms will suffer due to greediness, will be harassed in lodges, 
misappropriate funds in societies, have troubles in fulfilling 
desires ,experience turn of fortunes into misfortunes, misfortunes 
in their employment opportunities and will face dejections in 
their desires. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Libra asc borns will face mental distress ,become unconscious, 
have lack of knowledge and education, will be troubled by water, 
suffer due to water-borne diseases, lose sense and will involve 
in immoral activities. 

Moon is also the lord of 10" house to Libra. So the Libra asc 
borns will be alleged in service, become corrupt while holding 
high offices, have administrative capacity, will do forgery, lose 
name, fame and status in service and will be blocked in getting 
promotions. 


— = hn 


Libra" 535 


If the 8m house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Libra asc borns will enter info quarrels, riots, struggles, violence, 
terrorist activities, make false allegations, will suffer police or 
military actions, will be troubled by brothers, handle weapons 
and will be injured in bomb blasts and will not hesitate to murder, 
rob, cheat or commit suicides. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) have troubles in talks, suffer due to allergy and will 
donate money, gold and other valuables beyond their 
capacity. 


(ii) involve in immoral activities and corruption in voluntary 
and social institutions, invite enmity from officials, face 
marital dejections, will be cheated by partners, will be 
put into disrespect by enemies or spouses and face threats 
on life. 


IX House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the [IX house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc borns will pose as reliable persons, may have 
illegal affairs with neighbours, excel in transports, agreements, 
negotiations and may not possess their ancestral properties for 
long. 


Gemini is an airy sign; so the Libra asc borns will excel in 
higher education, have research capacity and will be professors, 
teachers and transporters. 


Gemini is a common sign. So the Libra asc borns will see 
fluctuations and instability in their higher education, research 
and confidence; will make frequent foreign trips. 


Gemmi is a sign of Mercury. So the Libra asc borns will mostly 
become clerks in research centres, teachers in high schools, 
counsellors, lawyers, matheniaticians, import & export agents, 
statisticians and will serve in foreign embassies. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Libra asc borns will excel in agricultural education, geology, 


244 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


mechanical engineering, history, and archaeology and may 
become pohticians, head masters, transport owners, landlords, 
criminal lawyers and judges. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Libra, So the Libra 
asc boms will, 


(i) be soft-spoken with understanding, gain ancestral gold 
and valuables as money and will get money or valuables 
as gifts. 


(ii) show affinity towards officials and show morality and 
discipline in social institutions, get government 
recognition to their social institutions, may go for second 
marriage, may have affairs with younger sister of wife 
and will be seduced to immoral affairs by the opposite 
SCX. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Libra asc borns will be researchers of drug addictions, experts 
of transplantation surgeries, implant artificial organs, will be 
preachers of religion, work in grain godowns belonging to 
foreign countries, involve in institutes of international cultural 
activities and will teach foreign languages. 


(Since the node Rahu does not own any sign of Zodiac, the 
significations of houses owned by Jupiter could be included for 
a comprehensive study) 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Libra asc boms will excel in higher education, teaching 
profession, become professors, financial controllers, temple 
executive officers, ambassadors, temple trustees and exporters, 
redefine religious, moral and legal practices, perform 
reincarnation rites with wisdom and knowledge. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) think beyond their capacity, publish books on education, 
show interest in mathematics, have memory power, 
make barter exchanges, have excessive growth in body 
organs, involve in the fields of information and 


Tibra 245 


communication and become mediators or researchers. 


(ii) be supervisors for competitive exams, suffer due to 
hereditary disorders, illegal affairs and malfunctioning 
of medicines, become medical personnel, have excessive 
food intakes, do joint ventures in medical research, make 
mutual agreements with multi-national organisations, 
divorce second wife or disconnect illegal affairs and face 
allegations while residing in lodges. 


X House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc boms will excel in professional fields of land, 
vehicle, automobile and machinery. 


Cancer is a watery sign; so the Libra asc borns would work in 
the fields of ports, bridges, water reservoirs and agriculture. 


Since Cancer is a movable sign, profession, status, honour and 
authority of the Libra asc boms will always show an upward 
trend. 


Cancer is a house of Moon; so the Libra asc boms will involve 
in the professional fields of water, liquids, medicines, ports, 
shipping, boating, plumbing, fishing, imports and exports, retail 
sales and in wells. 


If the 10™ house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Libra asc borns will hold responsible posts, serve in 
childrens’ welfare societies, hold honorary posts and serve in 
gold mines and centres of ancient monuments and national 
museums. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 3 & 6 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc boms will, 


(i) do those-professions in which they have to apply their 
thoughts beyond their capacity, involve in the fields of 
brokerage, information & communications, printing & 
publishing; accountants and bill collectors, electricians, 
plumbers, messengers, sellers of goods and assistants 
etc. 


246 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(ii) serve in competitive centres, become doctors, nurses, 
medical examiners, manufacturers of medical goods, 
food processors, dress ‘makers, lawyers, livestock 
producers, daily labourers or financiers. 


If the 10" house fails in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, 
the Libra asc borns will work as office boys especially in police 
or military, come up in life from lower stages and will deal with 
old goods. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 4 & 5 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 

(i) become manufacturers, agriculturalists, construction 
workers, factory workers, carpenters, drivers, cleaners, 
electricians, fertilizer makers, boiler workers, workers 
in grain fields, farms, fruit gardens or godowns. 


(ii) become pimps, priests, tour planners for pilgrimages, 
religious preachers, actors, astrologers, singers, painters 
and gynaecologists. 


If the 10" house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Libra asc bors will do business in the fields of micro 
instruments, scales, pipes, rods, wires, greenish articles, 
stationery, calculators and computers. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 9 & 12 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) serve in social service institutions, voluntary 
organisations, trusts, temples, courts, ports and foreign 
embassies, enter into agreements with government- 
officials, will be exporters, judges, leaders, professors, 
teachers, scientists, researchers, religious servants and 
communication experts etc. 


(ii) do business with sécret.contacts, will do dual and 
research oriented professions, spend for and invest in 
professions and 4»*:= ceeret interests in new professions. 


Libra 247 


XI House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Libra. So the 
Libra asc borns will give importance only to their personal 
satisfactions. They tend to show more interest in festivals, feasts 
and romance etc. 


Leo is a fiery sign. So the friends of Libra asc borns will have 
self-pride and arrogance. The Libra asc borns will be greedy in 
their needs. 


Leo is a fixed sign. So the desires, happiness and expectations 
of the Libra asc borns will remain static and permanent. 


Leo is ruled by Sun. So the Libra asc borns will involve in 
government societies, friendship forums, feasts, guest houses 
and co-operative societies, and get government recognitions and 
subsidies and will encourage and assist others. 


If the 11th house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
Libra asc borns will fulfil their desires through illegal means, 
carry expectations, have criminals as friends, sons-in-law and 
elder brothers. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 9 & 12. So the 
Libra asc borns will, 


(1) have contacts with social service institutes and higher 
officials, undertake foreign journeys and higher 
education of their choice have international contacts and 
enter into agreements. 


(11) be happy by way of secret contacts, invest in the fields 
of their choice, have secret interests through friends, 
disclose truths and will gain success in research fields. 


{f the 1! * house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by Venus, 
the Libra asc borns will become the happiest persons and have 
happiest persons as friends, sons-in-law and elder brothers. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 1 & 8 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) think much about themselves, have excessive vitamins, 


248 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


selfish and greedy, have self-pride, show happy and 
harmonious interests, have independent thoughts and 
imagination, change themselves in actions and enjoy 
tasting food. 


(11) have problems and troubles in their interests, will be 
tense, have dejections and will be hasty with wavering 
minds. 


If the 11™ house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, the 
Libra asc bors will involve in government societies, friendship 
forums, feasts, guest houses and co-operative societies, get 
govemment recognitions and subsidies and encourage and assist 
others. 


Sun is the lord of 11™ house to Libra. So the Libra asc borns 
will become leaders in societies, enter into agreements in 
societies, have fortunes and fortunate agreements, maintain 
secrecy in their activities, develop new and novel methods and 
thus would make achievements. 


XII House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Libra. So 
the Libra asc borns will spend on their investments, litigations, 
medical expenses by acquiring loans. They will always have a 
breakeven in their income and expenditure. 


Virgo is an earthy sign; so the Libra asc bors will have to 
spend on litigations, loans and medical treatments. 


Virgo is a common sign; so the Libra asc borns will spend on 
secret activities; their expenses, investments, body functions 
would carry fluctuations. 


Virgo is a sign of Mercury. So the Libra asc bors will invent 
micro-instruments, keep secret notes, accounts, photographs and 
documents and will never hesitate io involve in adulterations 
and secret agreements. 


If the 12 house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Libra asc borns will serve in the departments of 
investigations, customs, sales tax, auditing and accounts, prisons, 


Libra 249 


government hospitals, mortuary and public seizure. 


Sun happens to be the lord of 1] * house to Libra. So the Libra 
asc boms will show secret activities m societies, fail in their 
achievements, hide new and novel methods and will see failures 
in agreements with societies. 


Ifthe 12" house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Libra asc borns wil] make fast and quick expenditures, 
undertake sea-journeys and hoard liquid articles. 


Moon is the lord of X house to Libra. So the Libra asc boms 
will hold offices with secret responsibilities and heavy work 
load with multiple job natures. 


If the XII house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Libra asc boms will involve in immoral activities such as 
hoardings; adulterations, prostitution and smuggling etc. They 
may work in operation theatres or in investigation departments. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 7 to Libra. So the Libra 
asc borns will, 


(i) regain outstanding money, suffer due to d iseases in eyes 
and digestive system, invest in gold and valuables and 
have secret sources of income. 


(ii) live away from society, separate from opposite sex and 
have a despicable attitude towards others. They may 
marry foreigners. 


250 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Scorpio 


General nature of the sign Scorpio 


It is a watery, fixed and feminine sign; even sign; black in colour; 
long ascension; calm, authority and pride, intelligent and 
prasping in nature; capability of expression to share knowledge; 
It denotes the sexual organs of the body; fruitful, lively sign, 
multi-legged, compound walls and toilets in the buildings, wells, 
drainage channels, muddy places, butchery, slaughter honses, 
meat markets, graveyard, iron godown, chemical laboratory, 
operation theatre, VIII sign of Zodiac, west in direction, noon 
of the day, Karthika in Saka or Karthigai in Tamil calendars. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF SCORPIO 


(a) Itis a Watery sign t Result-oriented thoughts and acts, 
mentally committed to their deeds, could not be 
understood by others, composed as a puzzle in nature. 


(b) It is a fixed sign : Take concrete decisions and mental 


(c) [tis a house of Mars :¥Fond of sex, rough and violent in 
appearance, short-tempered, disrespect to others, 
arrogance, addiction to drugs, argumentative....... 


(d) Itis VI house of Kaalchakra :Opposite and perverted 
thoughts and acts, creating fear by way of appearance, 
criminal intentions, excessive interest in sexual 
pleasures, addictious to bad habits, pain and stress in 


Scorpio 251 


the body, short-tempered and have suicidal tendencies 
and revengeful nature. 


In the same manner, the remaining significations of Scorpio 
could also be studied. 


The sign Scorpio extends over three stars leading to the 
following body natures. 


I. Vishakha: Owned by Jupiter: Fatty body. 
2. Anuradha: Owned by Saturn: Rough skin and strong hair. 
3.  Jyeshta: Owned by Mercury: Strong nerves and lean body. 


If the asc falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, the 
Scorpio asc borns will excel in religious preaching, arts and 
songs, will be calm in nature and soft and divine in appearance 
and will be fair-complexioned. 


If the asc falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, the 
Scorpio asc borns will be crude in their appearance, will be 
black-complexioned, will be lazy and cowardly, doubtful and 
unhesitant to tell lies, will carry mental inclination towards 
education and may remain as atheists. 


If the asc falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, the 
Scorpio asc borns will be witty, dangerous and selfish in nature, 
easily depressed during failures and might attempt to commit 
suicides. 


There is a set of significations in each house that is 
complementary to asc as given below: 


II House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the 1X house of Kaalchakra is the II house, the 
Scorpio asc borns will mostly speak truth and their blessings 
would be treated by others as holy sayings. The Scorpio asc 
borns will have capability to express in research fields with 
authority and will have fatty eyes. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign; so they tend to change voice or tones 
and will be good in mimicry. 


252 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since Sagittarius is a common sign, the Scorpio asc borns will 
be eloquent with witty and double-meaning speech with a high 
degree of modulation. 


Since Sagittarius is a sign of Jupiter, the lord of houses 2 & 5 
to Scorpio, the Scorpio asc borns will excel in the fields of arts 
and find themselves among the company of popular saints and 
personalities. 


II House : Capricorn 


Capricom, the X house of Kaalchakra is the III house; the 
Scorpio asc borns will be courageous in their professional 
ventures. 


Since Capricorn is an earthy sign, the Scorpio asc borns will 
make professional publicity through their courage and 
confidence. 


Since Capricorn is a movable sign, their courage and confidence 
will grow day by day. 


Since it is a house of Saturn, the Scorpio asc borns will at 
times become cowards, show fluctuations of mind and have 
needed inclination towards education. 


IV House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI house of Kaalchakra is the IV house to 
Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc borns will be educated in their 
fields of interest. 


Since it is an airy sign, the Scorpio asc borns will be interested 
in the fields of science and mathematics. 


Since it is a fixed sign, the Scorpio asc boms will show strenuous 
and consistent efforts in education. 


Since it is a house of Saturn, the ruler of houses of 3 & 4 to 
Scorpio, the Scorpio asc borns will complete their education 
only after facing a few difficulties and discontinuities. 


Scorpio 253 


V House: Pisces 


Pisces, the XII house of Kaalchakra is the V house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc borns will have secrecy with their own 
children and in their love affairs; have capabilities to undertake 
research in the fields of arts, culture, theology, astrology and 
literature. 


Pisces is a watery sign, so the Scorpio asc borns will get fruitful 
results in their fields of research. 


Pisces is a common sign, the Scorpio asc borns will have a 
mind to spend too much of their time and energy to make changes 
in their fields of research. 


Since it is a house of Jupiter, ruler of houses 2 & 5 to Scorpio, 
the Scorpio asc borns will establish cordial relationships with 
popular saints and will have eloquence in the field of theology. 


VI House: Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra, is the VI house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc boms will become successful through self- 
efforts and are generally disease-prone to lose energy in their 
painful self efforts. 


Since Aries is a fiery sign, the Scorpio asc boms will generally 
suffer due to diseases caused by excessive heat and could win 
only after prolonged struggles. 


Aries is a movable sign, their diseases would grow at a faster 
rate. 


Since it is a house of Mars, the ruler of houses 1 & 6 to Scorpio, 
the Scorpio asc boms will suffer due to muscle pains, swellings 
and growths. 


VII House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc boms will often meet with gold and diamond 
merchants, financiers, bankers, treasurers. 


254 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


Taurus is an earthy sign, so the persons who meet the Scorpio 
asc borns will be adjustable and flexible and will show affinity 
towards them. 


Taurus is a fixed sign, so the social relationships of the Scorpio 
asc borns would last long. 


Taurus is a house of Venus, the ruler of honses 7 & 12, so the 
Scorpio asc boms will often be troubled by secret enemies. 


VIII House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc boms will always carry mental depressions 
and dejections. They may meet with accidents during short or 
return journeys. 


Since Gemini is an airy sign, the Scorpio asc borns will often 
be troubled by gas problems and will ipse respect due to self- 
pride. 


Since it is a common sign, the troubles and mental worries of 
the Scorpio asc boms would not be constant. 


Since Gemini is house of Mercury, the ruler of houses 8 & 11 
to Scorpio, the Scorpio asc boms will have sudden pleasures 
and pleasant surprises. Since Mercury is the Karaka planet for 
uncles, the reputation of the Scorpio asc borns would be 


damaged by them. 
IX House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV house of Kaalchakra is the [X house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc borns will face difficulties in continuing 
their higher education; they may face threats in their illegal 
affairs. 

Since Cancer is a movable and watery sign, the Scorpio asc 
borns will be benefited through their higher studies. They tend 
to continue their studies for long. 


Since Cancer is the house of Moon, the Scorpio asc boms will 
get informations at a faster speed and undertake speedy journeys 
and research attempts. 


Scorpio _ 255 


X House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Scorpio. So the 
Scorpio asc borns will gain respect and professional status in 
the fields of arts and culture. 


Leo is a fixed sign; so the Scorpio asc borns will stabilize their 
professional status. 


Since Leo is also a fiery sign, the professional status could be 
gained by the Scorpio asc borns only after prolonged struggles. 


Leo is the house of Sun. So the Scorpio asc borns will get 
professional status through government officials. 


XI House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Scorpio. So 
the Scorpio asc borns will achieve success in the fields of their 
interest but would suffer due to vitamin deficiencies. 


Since Virgo is a common sign, the Scorpio asc boms tend to 
show fluctuations in their desires; since it is also an earthy sign, 
they would show patience in fulfilling their desires. 


Since it is a house of Mercury, the ruler of houses 8 & 11, the 
Scorpio asc borns will have explicit desires and would fulfill 
them only after intermittent struggles. 


XII House : Libra 


Libra, the VII house of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Scorpio; 
the Scorpio asc borns will have more number of secret enemies/ 
partners. 


Since Libra is an airy sign, the Scorpio asc borns will become 
spendthrifts in cosmetics and because it is also a movable sign, 
they will indulge in extravagant expenditures. 


Since Libra is a house of Venus, the ruler of houses 7 & 12 to 
Scorpio, the Scorpio asc borns will face problems and conflicts 
from opposite sex. 


256 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF SCORPIO UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT 


Il House.: Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the [IX house of Kaalchakra is the II house to 
Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc borns will gain financially from 
father and in the fields of government, religion, temples, 
transport, education and law. 


Since Sagittarius is a fiery sign, the Scorpio asc borns may 
possess lethal weapons and would be spendthrifts. 


Since Sagittarius is a common sign, the financial status of the 
Scorpio asc borns would often see fluctuations. 


Since it is a house of Jupiter, the mode of income of the Scorpio 
asc borns would be lawful and within the boundary of ethics. 
They would be profited from self-discipline, arts, culture, sports 
and love affairs. 


If the 2na house falls in the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the 
Scorpio asc borns will not hesitate to hold narcotic drugs, may 
possess diamonds; adopt illegal means for making money with 
their cunning speech and create problems for material gains. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, which is the lord of houses 8 & 
11 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc borns will, 


(i) make profits by all kinds of illegal means such as 
harassments, rapes, threats, magic, cheatings, 
ingratitude, forgery, murders, thefts, robbery etc, make 
profits out of scrapped goods, gain by serving in dirty 
places, by accepting bribery at accident wards and 
mortuary, gain through defamation suits and will have 
income in insurance sectors or through wills and 
charters. 


(ii) gain through greedy nature, gain from easy and happy 
means, gain from societies, friends and clubs, success 
and achievements, through romance and by entertaining 
others. 


If the 2na house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
Scorpio Pn f 


the Scorpio asc bors will gain through gold and valuables, 
cosmetics, valuable and costly artistic goods, silks, cinema and 
by attractive and entertaining speeches. 


Venus is the lord of houses 7 & 12 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc boms, 


(i) gain with assistance from others and social relationships, 
life or business partners, gain through banks or 
government and by evading taxes or from subsidies or 
recognitions from government. 


(ii) gain through secret activities and plans or by hoarding 
essential goods or through returns from investments or 
savings and will regain lost goods or outstanding money. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Scorpio asc boms will gain from govemment and financial fields 
of stamps, documents, treasury and orders. 


Sun is the lord of 10° house to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc 
boms will gain through honorary or responsible posts, status, 
name, fame, leadership, administrative capacity and in 
counselling. 


IMI House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X house of Kaalchakra is the III house to 
Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc boms will undertake frequent 
professional journeys, supplement their professions with more 
communications, publications and informations. 


Since Capricorn is an earthy sign, a touch of intimacy will be 
there in the communications of Scorpio asc borns and they will 
be flexible during negotiations. 


Since Capricorn is a movable sign, the process of negotiations 
will have a speedy flow; the Scorpio asc boms will be fast in 
their communications and they will undertake frequent changes. 


Since Capricorn is a sign of Saturn, the Scorpio asc boms 
will not hesitate to make false propaganda about others, forging 


258 Astrologics of kaatchakra 


documents and will change stands in the process of negotiations 
and walks long distances. 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 

Scorpio asc borns will have to interact more with the information 
and communication departments of the governmerit and will 

deal with the government documents like stamp papers. 


Sun is the lord of 10* house to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc 
borns will get government orders for holding honorary posts, 
will do business with status, have the responsibihty to counsel, 
will be appreciated for their administrative capacities and will 
enjoy good publicity. 


oi 
If the 3 ra house falls in the star of Shravana, ruledby Moon, the 
Scorpio asc boms will be speedy communicators, write with 
great imaginations and description and will prefer faster modes 
of travel. 


Moon is the lord of 9* house to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc 
boms will confidently enter into agreements and exchanges, 
get speedy publicity, enter into agreements for research, establish 
contacts with foreigners and foreign countries, become 
messengers or tourist guides, act as mediators, will be clerks in 
law departments, become auditors, will be certified for higher 
education and could receive orders to act as leaders. 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Dhanishta, mled by Mars, the 
Scorpio asc borns will make bold and courageous agreements, 
send false informations, enter into unethical agreements and 
will dominate with physical strength during negotiations. 


Mars is the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc 
boms will, 


(i) record their self-thoughts in diary, have independent 
thoughts in negotiations, show their strength and publish 
about themselves. 


(ii) attam success in competitive fields, render medical 
counseling, make research attempts, sellers of food 
items, will be tailors , house-keepers, lawyers, postmen, 


Scorpio — - 259 


caller for tenders, lessors, accountants, money-lenders 
or medical representatives. 


IV House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI house of Kaalchakra is the IV house to 
Scorpio; the Scorpio asc borns will have Jitigations and troubles 
in their lands, house, vehicles and machinery. ‘They tend to reside 
in colonies or nearby lodges; they will generally reside at the 
central part of a street or a road. 


Since Aquarius is an airy sign, the Scorpio asc boms will reside 
in an airy but noisy and spacious house; since it is also a fixed 
sign, the belongings and properties would remain forever with 
them. 


Since Saturn is the lord of the 4* house, the Scorpio asc boms 
will usurp village common lands; own mines, old buildings, 
scrap materials, wooden or clay articles, oil seeds and black 
coloured articles. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 

Scorpio boms will be interested more in the fields of automobile, 
machinery, agriculture, livestock, chemicals, fertilizers and 

macro industries. 


Mars is the lord of the houses 1 & 6 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio + 
asc borns will, 


(i) do manufacturing with their own ideas, improve their 
strength by making independent purchases and make 
courageous self-decisions in matters of lands, vehicles 
and properties 


(ii) own laboratories, organise medical camps, prepare food 
items, will do tailoring, produce medicines or medical 
equipments, finance on properties, serve in purchase 
departments, will be milk vendors, lodge-owners or 
accountants. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Scorpio asc bors will often use professional vehicles, reside 
in quarters or near prisons or grave-yards, serve in embassies or 


260 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


ancient palaces and manufacture drugs, forged goods and 
adulterated goods. 


(Readers may please refer the house significations of Jupiter 
for Rahu.) 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Scorpio asc borns will legally own properties like macro- 
industries, educational institutions, or manufacturers of silk, 
cotton and turmeric goods or work as surveyors. 


Jupiter is the lord of the houses 2 & 5 toScorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will, 


(i) own valuable and useful goods, gold and valuables, 
construct bungalows, store things and personally own 
things. 


(ii) own company shares, becorne sports trainers, own 


auditoriums or prostitution dens and will produce artistic 
goods with great imagination. 


V House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII house to Kaalchakra is the V house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc borns will keep their love affairs in great 
secrecy, but will fail in them and their first child may not have 
a long life. 


Pisces is a watery sign; so the Scorpio asc boms will excel in 
the fields of arts and theology. 


Since Pisces is a common sign, their knowledge and wisdom 
would remain incomplete. Love affairs, life of their first child, 
faith in god of the Scorpio asc borns will see fluctuations. 


Pisces is ruled by Jupiter. So the Scorpio asc boms will have 
faith in God, will be true to their love affairs, become priests 
and will excel in arts with great intuition. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Scorpio asc borns will have faith in god, will be true to their 
love affairs, become priests and will excel in arts with great 


Scorpio 261 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 2 & 5 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will, 


(i) hold artistically valuable goods, own musical 
instruments, earn commissions, keep things in an artistic 
manner and will spend more time in Jearning arts. 


(ii) act as share brokers, will be Vedic chanters, will be fond 
of sports, write poems and short-stories, will be 
interested in politics and own auditoriums. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Scorpio asc borns will have sexual affairs with people 
belonging to lower strata, will be untruthful in their love affairs, 
turn into sanyasis, have lazy children, excel in sober characters 
in films or dramas or serve as security guards for temple ponds. 


Saturn is the lordof3 & 4* houses to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will, 


(i) publish books on arts and culture, receive press publicity 
for their artistic performances, serve in advertising 
departments, enter into agreements for artistic 
performances and could obtain changes in their transfer 
orders. 


(ii) involve in the fields of arts and culture as academically 
qualified persons, manufacture nutritious food, develop 
livestock, produce films, cosmetics, musical instruments 
and journals and will be stage managers of dramas and 
music concerts. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
the Scorpio asc boms will be singers, comedy actors, debaters, 
painters, sculptors, commission agents, artists, cultural teachers 
and chanters of Vedas. 


Mercury, is also the lord of houses 8 & 11"to Scorpio. So the 
Scorpio asc borns will, 


(i) repair musical instruments, live in dirty places, face 


262 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


punishments, seizures or cheatings, get their reputations 
spoilt and will not hesitate to rape. 


(11) learn arts with greedy nature, construct lodges, organize 
branches for societies, have fortunate opportunities, 
spend time with friends of their choice and win lotteries. 


VI House: Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc borns will serve in responsible posts, gain 
success through service and serve im the fields of military, 
railways, police, fire service and industries. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the Scorpio asc boms will Serve in the 
fields wherein fire is used. Since it is also a movable sign, they 
will serve for a longer period of time. Their borrowings and 
court cases would always be in an upward trend. 


Since Aries is a house of Mars, the Scorpio asc boms will 
work in industries and in the fields of medicine, catering, 
tailoring and garments and will have to render hard labour in 
their jobs. 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Scorpio asc boms will acquire loans with an intention to cheat, 
undertake criminal activities, anti-social & illegal activities and 
serve in the field of acids. 


Since Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 8 & I1 
to Scorpio, the Scorpio asc borns will, 


(i) render hard labour, serve in severe working conditions, 
do repairing jobs, have heavy work load and may work 


in dirty places. 


(ii) gai success only after prolonged struggles, serve in 
societies, win htigations against societies, get fortunate 
opportunities Tepeatedly, make achievements in service 
and will be capable of diagnosing diseases correctly. 


If the 6* house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Scorpio asc borns will serve in the fields of arts and culture, 


Scarnia 263 


tailoring, vegetable stores, fruit stalls, hardware, paints, 
glassware, plastic, silks, food articles and weaving etc. 


Venus is the lord of houses 7 & 12 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will, 


(i). serve in social service institutions and voluntary 
organisations, agents for government officers, will be 
marriage brokers, labour contractors or labour welfare 
officers. 


(ii) acquire loans through secret plans, clear debts by more 
borrowings, liquidate investments, become doctors, may 
become inactive subsequent to ill health, face breakeven 
of income & expenditures and have to face court case 
filed by separated partner. 


If the 6* house falls in Krittiga star, ruled by Sun, the Scorpio 
asc borns will get government loans, may have to face court 
cases filed by the government, have government servants for 
attending their personal needs, get free uniform, medicines and 
food from government and work in government departments of 


employment, investigation, cattle development, agriculture and 
health. 


Sun is the lord of the 10" house to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc 
boms will get permanent and easy jobs with administrative 
powers and status with promotion avenues. 


VII House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Scorpio. 
So the life partners of the Scorpio asc borns would be greedy 
after money, will be interested more in accumulating gold and 
valuables or will belong to higher socio-economic class. 


Taurus is an earthy sign. So the Scorpio asc borns will have 
disciplined and affectionate life partners. 


Since Taurus is also a fixed sign, the Scorpio asc borns will 
have long standing relationships with their spouses /business 
partners and with customers. 


264 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Taurus is a house of Venus. So the Scorpio asc boms will have 
attractive and beautiful wives or handsome husbands. Their 
business partners and customers will always get satisfied through 
the Scorpio asc borns. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Scorpio asc boms will have life/business partners with self- 
pride; they will often have to meet officers and welfare 
department officials. 


Since Sun is the lord of the 10th house to Scorpio, the Scorpio 
asc boms will often spend more time with colleagues, executive 
officers, trade union leaders, persons with status, dealers and 
customers in their professional life. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Rohim, ruled by Moon, the 
Scorpio asc borns will have young-looking wife with wavering 
mind, customers with unstable minds and active partners. 


Since Moon is also the lord of the 9* house, the Scorpio asc 
bors will often meet with leaders, foreigners, judges, priests, 
trustees, teachers and also with people who could not get due 
social recognition. 


If the 7* house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Scorpio asc borns will have undisciplined and arrogant wife 
and liars as customers, often meet with terrorists or arrogant 
bank officials and will be forced by circumstances to seek 
assistance from others. 


Mars is the lord of 1 & 6 houses to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc 
borns will, 


(i) abide by collective decisions, listen tp others, attempt 
successful joint ventures, face undue oppositions due 
to their over-activeness, will lack in taking independent 
decisions and suffer due to diseases in kidney, uterus 
and abdomen regions. 


(ii) often meet with bank officers, money lenders, servants, 
patients, doctors, caterers, lawyers and suffer due to 
contagious diseases. 


Scorpio ” 265 


VIII House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III house to Zodiac is the VIII house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc boms will get into troubles due to writings, 
agreements, surety, documents and due to loss of memory. 


Since Gemini is an airy sign, the Scorpio asc borns may get 
into accidents due to air pressure; bomb blasts and natural 
calamities. 


Gemini is a common sign. So life, accidents, stress, pain, 
disrespect, sorrows of the Scorpio asc borns will not remain 
stable for long. 


Gemini is a house of Mercury. So the Scorpio asc borns will 
get into troubles by way of cheques, documents, disconnection 
of power supply or telephone, negotiations , anonymous letters, 
forgetfulness, miscommunication of messages and in their 
neurological system of the body. 


If the VIII house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, 
the Scorpio boms will get into troubles in quarrels, riots, revolts, 
struggles, terrorism, besieges, false allegations, police or military 
actions, weapons, bomb blasts, cruel accidents, rapes, murders, 


robbery, forgery, cheating, suicide squads and also due to their 
brothers. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
boms will, 


(i) lack in self-thouglits, have to struggle in actions, remain 
inactive, suffer stress and pain in working capacity, face 
dejection and suffer due to failure of functions in the 
body. 


(ii) face problems in competitive centres, suffer due to 
increase in diseases subsequent to wrong medical 
treatment and due to side-effects of medicine or allergy, 
accidents in the production of medicines and face false 
allegations in lodges. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Scorpio asc boms will face imprisonment, become addicted to 


266 A Strologics of kaalch akra 


wine and women, will be punished in foreign countries, face 
troubles in blood vessels or lack of protein and face seizures of 
their properties. 


(For the house significations of Rahu, please take the house 
significations of Jupiter, as given below) 


[f the 8* house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Scorpio asc borns will be punished by law, lose gold and 
valnables, face legal threatening or seizures, act against law 
and produce damaged goods. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 2 & 5 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will, 


(i) invite troubles by way of their tone of conversations 
and loose talks, suffer due to allergy and will 
unexpectedly donate gold and other valuables even 
beyond their capacity. 


(ii) face accidents in music or dance concerts, sports, games, 
involve in raping to spoil reputation, will be punished 
in sports, spoil reputation in auditoriums, face 
harassments in prostitution dens, quarrel in bars, cause 
damage to the purity of the sanctum sanctorum, lose 
reputation in love marriages, will be discredited in 
stories, essays, and in politics. 


IX House : Cancer 


Cancer, the 1V sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Scorpio. 
So the Scorpio asc borns tend to involve in extra-marital affairs, 
have shorter span of life, gain ancestral properties, lose their 
father at their early ages, will get troubles through foreign 
contacts and in research attempts. 


Cancer is a watery sign. So the Scorpio asc boms will excel in 
higher education and will be preachers and show excessive 
interest in sexual pleasures. 


Cancer is also a movable sign. So the Scorpio asc borns will 
quickly gain in confidence, may become polygamists, undertake 
frequent journeys, excel in higher education and will enjoy their 


Scorpio 267 


successful research developments in foreign countries. 


Cancer is a house of Moon. So the Scorpio asc bors will! excel 
in their higher education, have extra-marital affairs with widows, 
have contacts through borrowings, run private research centres, 
find new things and will have a fast and quick reaction of mind. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Scorpio asc borns will have higher education, qualify in 
teaching and preaching, will be professors, financial advisers, 
temple trustees, ambassadors and exporters; modify rituals and 
customs of law, rehgion and moral codes. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 2 & 5 to Scorpio. So the 
Scorpio asc bors will, 


(i) be flexible during talks or negotiations, get ancestral 
properties and get things only as donations. 


(ii) undertake religious service and pilgrimage; have faith 
in god; get rid of diseases by the grace of god and will 
often tend to resign their jobs. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, the 
Scorpio asc borns wil! study science; lack mental inclination 
towards higher education; research about accidents; run a 
medical laboratory and may own oil wells. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 3 & 4 to Scorpio. So the 
Scorpio asc boms will, 


(i) think beyond their capacity, receive press publicity about 
their achievements, publish books on education, will 
be messengers, undertake barter exchanges, have 
excessive growths in organs of the body, will be 
interested in mathematics, involve in the fields of 
information and communication. 


(ii) qualify in teaching, gain ancestral properties, own 
properties abroad, run schools, have temple properties 
at their disposals, mvolve in the fields of productions or 
automobiles and own grain godowns. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 


268 Astrologics “of kaalchakra 


the Scorpio asc boms will work as clerks in research departments 
will be teachers for higher classes, counsellors, lawyers, 
mathematicians, statisticians, representatives of information & 
communication, international trade and accountants 1n treasury. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 8 & 11 to Scorpio. So the 
Scorpio asc boms will, 


(i) face threatening to life in illegal and extra-marital affairs, 
commit forgery in ancestral properties, commit mistakes 
in research attempts, face hurdles in higher education 
and difficulties in foreign journeys and failures in 
agreements. 


(ii) study certificate courses, hold honorary posts, make 
achievements in research fields, fond of fatty food, have 
fortunate opportunities from agreements, succeed in 
agreements with societies, gai name and fame and will 
always remain joyful. 


X House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Scorpio. So the 
Scorpio asc boms will work in the fields of arts, culture and 
sports. 


Since Leo is a fiery sign, the Scorpio asc borns may hold 
responsible posts in industries. Leo is also a fixed sign. So the 
status, honour, profession and posts of the Scorpio asc borns 
will remain steady. 


Leo is a sign owned by Sun. So the Scorpio asc borns will 
become govemment officers, serve in government commercial 
centres, industrial centres, vocational training institutes, 
employment exchanges and will be honoured by government. 


If the 10" house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
Scorpio asc boms will involve in illegal activities using their 
status, gain status and respect through illegal means and will 
never get satisfied with anything. 


Ketu would act like Mercury in house significations. Since 


Scorpio = aa - «69 


Mercury is the lord of houses 8 & 11 to Scorpio, the Scorpio 
asc boms will, 


(i) involve in all kinds of illegal professions and deal in 
old goods or repair and modify old goods. 


(ii) serve in societies, enter into agreements for societies, 
do profession of their choice, make professional 
achievements and will modernize their professional 
fields. 


Ifthe 10* house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by 
Venus, the Scorpio asc boms will gain status and respect in the 
fields of arts and culture, will be m the professions of wine and 
women and will become entertainers. 


Venus is the lord of houses 7 & 12 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc boms will, 


(i) serve in social service or national service organisations 
become marriage brokers or labour contractors, do joint 
ventures and will be orators in clubs and parties. 


(ii) do business with secret contacts, do dual-natured 
profession, spend and invest more on profession, do 
secret things as profession, do research as profession 
and establish secret relationships in profession. 


If the 10* house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Scorpio asc borns will be government officers, serve in 
government commercial centres, industrial centres, vocational 
training institutes, employment exchanges and will be honoured 
by government. 


Sun is also the lord of 10* house to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will hold top and leading posts with power, authority, 
name and fame, responsibility and honour; they may work in 
the government departments of customs, income-tax and sales 
tax. 


270 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


XI] House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Scorpio. So 
the Scorpio asc bors will become successful in their fields of 
interest through self-efforts. 


Virgo is an earthy sign. So the Scorpio asc borns will be greedy 
but will have affectionate friends. 


Virgo is acommon sign. So the desires of the Scorpio asc boms 
will change and see fluctuations in the process of fulfillmentof 
their desires. 


Virgo is a house of Mercury. So the Scorpio asc boms will 
have witty friends, sons-in law, elder brothers; like to handle 
micro instruments and have a chance to go through books of 
their choice. 


If the 1!" house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Scorpio asc boms will have opportunities to become part of 
government bodies, societies, friendly forums, and feasts, will 
be honoured by the government with medals or subsidies or 
scholarships and show interest in the field of politics. 


Sun is also the lord of 10* house to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will hold honourable posts with name and fame to 
suit their desires. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Scorpio asc bors will have friends who tend to confuse them, 
will easily and cheaply get satished, will have more number of 
friends, will become selfish and will be fond of liquors. 


Moon is also the lord of the 9th hause. So.the Scorpio asc borns 

will establish contacts with social service institutions, voluntary 

organisations and higher officials, may become polygamists, 

undertake foreign journeys of their choice, study courses of their 
choice, have international contacts and enter into research. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Scorpio asc bors will have untruthful and insincere friends, 
sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, become successful in fulfilling 
their desires only after prolonged struggles, will be greedier with 
arrogance. 


Scorpio 271 


Mars is also the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc borns will, 


(i) always think about them, carry self-pride, have 
independent opinions, imagination, like to make changes 
in their activities, have excellent functioning of the body, 
happily involve in things and will be greedy. 


(ii) win in the fields of their choice, join in service of their 
choice, have favourable scopes for success and have the 
capability to diagnose diseases correctly. 


XII House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Scorpio. 
The Scorpio asc borns will be troubled by women, partners and 
enemies frequently. 


Libra is an airy sign. So the Scorpio asc borns will undertake 
secret investigation, research on ancient things and in 
educational research fields. 


Libra is a movable sign. Their secret activities, losses, 
investments and expenditures would grow day by day. 


Venus is the lord of Libra. So the Scorpio asc boms will involve 
in secret love affairs, secret marriage, make secret plans and 
involve in hoarding things. 


If the 12* house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Scorpio asc borns will serve m government departments of 
investigation, health, custorns and excise, sales tax, prisons, 
postmortem divisions, acquisition or seizures of lands or 
properties. 


Mars is the lord of houses 1 & 6 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio asc 
borns will, 


(i) be masochists, have inferiority complex, under-estimate 
their own strength and potential, have unsatisfactory 
relations, lack interest and imagination, face hurdles in 
their efforts and suffer due to allergy. 


272 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(ii) have secret success, change their seats in their offices 
as desired, gain success only after extravagant 
expenditures, suffer due to wrong diagnosis of diseases 
and will be troubled by their servants. 


If the 12* house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Scorpio asc boms will make secret investigations, work in the 
fields of software, atomic energy, bombs, anaesthesia, artificial 
respiration, prisons and may involve in hijacking of airplanes. 


(For the house significations of Rahu, please refer to the house 
significations of Jupiter, as below) 


If the 12" house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Scorpio asc borns will do secret activities in the banner of 
law, suffer due to secret troubles by way of law, will be raided 
by the income-tax department, will face seizure of their 
properties by the government, imprisonment by courts, conduct 
secret financial reviews and may print fake currency. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 2 & 5 to Scorpio. So the Scorpio 
asc bors will, 


(i) regain outstanding money, suffer eye-diseases due to 
vitamin deficiency, invest in gold and valuables and have 
secret sources of income. 


(ii) have breach of cordial and harmomous relationships, 
forcibly have sexual pleasures, face hurdles in mutual 
relationships of peace and make undue expenditure in 
the fields of arts and culture. 


Kindly include the karakas of residentship of the planets for a 
more comprehensive study. 


Scorpio 273 


Sagittarius 


General nature of the sign Sagittarius 


It is a fiery, common and masculine sign; odd sign; red and gold 
in colour; long ascension; anus in the body, semi-animal and 
semi-human, barren, dry sign, house of Jupiter, multi-storied 
buildings, arms godown, schools and colleges, temples, religious 
centres, courts, branch of a street, places surrounded by trees 
and plants, suburban areas, outskirts of a city or village, battle 
fields, angry in nature and delay in understanding, [X sign of 
Zodiac, north west in direction, nights of a day, Margashira in 
Saka or Margazhi in Tamil calendars. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF SAGITTARIUS 


(a) It is a fiery sign : Short temper, lack of affection, 
arrogance in appearance and character & self-pride. 


(b) Itis a common sign ; Fluctuating body and mind, fast 
changing structure, appearance and colour, changing 
characters and acts, short-living anger. 

(c) It is a house of Jupiter : Sincere, honest, self-thoughts, 
obedient, prestige, self-confidence, intelligence, 
calmness, adjustable to others. 


(d) It is IX house of Kaalchakra : Honesty and credibility, 
fond of education, research capability, faith in god, 
trustees, ambassadors, interest in the fields of law, 


274 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


travels, undertaking visits to' outstations and foreign 
countries. 


In the same manner, the remaining significations of Sagittarius 
could also be studied. 


The sign Sagittartus extends over three stars leading to the 
following body natures. 


1. Moola: Owned by Ketu: Excessive acidity in the body 
2. Poorvashada: Owned by Venus: Water-borne body 
3. Uttarashada: Owned by Sun: Strong body with calcium. 


If the asc falls in the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the Sagittarius 
asc borns will have appearance with lean body or hunch-back, 
acidify in the body, criminal and greedy natured. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 7 & 10 to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc borns will, 


({) have multiple social relations duly recognized by the 
society, abide by laws and have legal bondages, tend to 
depend on others. 


(ii) gain status and prestige as senior officers, will be leaders 
with administrative capacity, hold honorary posts and 
as responsible counsellors, have dissatisfactions and eam 
name and fame. 


If the asc falls m the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will appear as attractive, beautiful, sexy 
and handsome, attract others through their activities, have self- 
pride, like self-beautifi cat ion, fond of cosmetics and collection 
of gold and other valuables. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) gain success, face separation in marital life, have sound 
health, faith in labour, extra-ordinary sense of taste in 
dressing and patience in nursing. 


(11) be greedy and selfish in nature, happy and harmonious, 
counsellor to societies, have fortunes, successful, make 


Sagittarius 275 


achievements, adapt to the requirements of situations 
and towards others. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Sagittarius asc boms will be majestic in their appearance, proud 
generous, have strong bones, commanding in nature with 
leadership qualities. 


> 


Sun is also the lord of 9th house to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns wil! win confidence of others; earn name, 
fame; have capabilities of undertaking research work, faith in 
god, will be trustees, educationists, obedient to laws, god and 
to society; conservationists; affinity towards foreigners; 
ambassadors, have changes in physique and would like to 
contribute for endowments. 


II House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X house of Kaalchakra is the II house to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc bom tends to speak in a 
proud and commanding tone; excel in professional 
conversations; their eyes will be fleshy. 


Since Capricorn is an earthy sign, they tend to talk in a pleasing 
tone with affinity towards others. It is also a movable sign. So 
they tend to speak slowly and steadily. 


Since it is a house of Saturn, the lord of houses 2 & 3 to 
Sagittarius, the Sagittarius asc boms will talk what they think. 
They never hesitate to tell hes and exaggerate things. 


Iii House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI house to Kaalchakra is the II! house to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc boms will work in the fields 
of their interest with enthusiasm. They are courageous and 
confident in fulfilling their desires and actively involve 
themselves in the fields of communications and entertainments. 


Since Aquarius is an airy sign, they have wavering minds but 
with imagination and enthusiasm. It is also a fixed sign. So they 
have the will and strength in spite of mental oscillations. 


276 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since Aquarius is a house of Saturn, the ruler of houses 2 & 3 
to Sagittarius, the Sagittartus asc borns will have fluctuating 
minds and are doubtful in nature. They are mostly pessimistic. 


IV House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII house of Kaalchakra is the IV house to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc borns could not get benefits 
out of their studies and academic qualifications. They may face 
difficulties in their primary education or they may lack needed 
inclination towards primary studies. They may be benefited 
through undue investment on their education in an unusual 
manner. 


Since Pisces is a watery sign, the Sagittarius asc borns will 
grasp things quickly with their academic qualifications and they 
will not be reluctant to share their knowledge with others. Pisces 
is acommon sign meaning that the Sagittarius asc borns will 
undergo frequent changes, ups and downs; they have a fair 
chance of studying at far-off places or abroad. 


Since Pisces is a house of Jupiter, the lord of houses 1 & 4 to 
Sagittarius, they will have dissatisfactions in their studies and 
would be worried by their first child. 


V House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of the Kaalchakra is the V house to 
Sagittartus. So the Sagittartus asc borns will show pride and 
authority in the fields of arts, culture and religion. They are 
dominant and possessive in then* love affairs. 


Since Aries is a fiery sign, they tend to show arrogance with 
anger and dissatisfaction towards their first child and in their 
love affairs. They will carry dissatisfactions in the fields of arts 
and culture. 


Aries is a movable sign. So the Sagittartus asc borns will have 
a mind to indulge in unnecessary expenditure for making 
frequent changes in the fields of arts, culture and religion; they 
are extravagant in their love affairs and for the cause of their 
first child. 


Sagittarius 2/7 


Since Aries is a house of Mars, they are fast and arrogant during 
copulation and they are bold in disclosing their love affairs but 
will also face troubles and dejections. 


VI House: Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to the 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc borns will have diseases in 
eyes, teeth and mouth. 


Taurus is an earthy sign; so the Sagittarius asc boms will suffer 
due to climatic changes, diseases caused by environment or 
allergy and in neurological system. They will win over others 
by way of their affectionate attitude and love towards them. 
Since it is also.a fixed sign, their ailments and suffenngs would 
last long; they have a steady approach towards success. 


Since it is a house of Venus, the lord of houses 6 & 11 to 
Sagittarius, the Sagittarius asc boms will suffer due to vitamin 
deficiencies; they will succeed in their life through their self 
endeavours. 


VII House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III house to Kaalchakra is the VII house to 
Sagittarius; they are communicative in their social relations. 
They will maintain harmomous relationships in married life with 
an open mind. 


Since Gemini is an airy sign, they gain more information by 
way of their public relations. 


Since Gemini is also a common sign, they frequently make 
changes in their attitude towards others. 


Since it is a house of Mercury, they tend to be friendlier with 
famihes of their spouses and in the course of their self and 
professional ventures. 


VIII House = Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to 
Sagittarius; the Sagittarius asc borns will get injured in chest. 


278 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


The organs in the thoracic regions may fail or would lead to 
sufferings due to malfunctioning. 


Since Cancer is a watery sign, the Sagittarius asc boms may 
suffer due to water-bome diseases. They may meet with 
accidents in water or caused by liquids. 


Since Cancer is a movable sign, the troubles to Sagittarius asc 
boms would get multiplied. 


Since it is a house of Moon, the karaka planet for mother, the 
Sagittarius asc boms will be troubled by their mother. They 
will suffer due to cool articles and liquids. 


IX House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc boms will excel in their higher education 
especially in the fields of arts, culture and religion. 


Since Leo is a fiery sign, they would show strong commitment 
towards their higher studies. They may suffer from irritations 
during long distance travels. 


Since Leo is a fixed sign, their faith m god and higher education 
would remain unchanged. They may live at a foreign place for 
long. 


Since Leo is the house of Sun, they may study in government 
institutions by getting scholarships; will be inclined towards 
politics. They are best counsellors. 


X House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc boms will become successful in their 
professional fields. They can gain status and prestige in the fields 
of textiles, catering, drugs, chemicals, law and money lending. 


Since Virgo is a common sign, the status and prestige of the 
Sagittarius asc bos would not remain stable and permanent. 


Since Virgo is an earthy sign, they tend to gain their status and 
prestige through proper means. 


Sagittarius 279 


Since Virgo is a house of Mercury, they will be glorified by 
their spouses, the society and their business partners. 


XI House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc borns will fulfil their desires through spouses; 
have sexual affairs as per their desires or with people of their choice. 


Since Libra is an airy sign, they will have a generous attitude 
with mental satisfaction. Since it is also a movable sign, they 
tend to preserve their happy mind and show patience in attaining 
their goals. 


Since Libra is a house of Venus, the lord of houses 6 & 11 to 
Sagittarius, the Sagittarius asc borns will get mental 
satisfaction by hstening to music and by spending time in the 
field of arts. 


XII House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to 
Sagittarius, the Sagittarius asc boms will be punished and 
troubled due to secret and illegal planning and for cruelty. 


Since the Scorpio is a watery sign, the Sagittarius asc borns 
will be troubled by liquors, liquid fuels and spurious medicines. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So they tend to get involved in secret 
criminal activities permanently. 


It is a house of Mars, the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc borns will behave arrogantly in their 
Jove affairs and towards their children. 


280 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF SAGITTARIUS UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT 


II House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc borns will make financial 
and monetary gains in their professional ventures and by way 
of their prestige, promotion and status. 


Since Capricorn is an earthy sign, the Sagittarius asc borns 
will develop their financial position and would preserve their 
income through savings. 


Capricorn is a movable sign; so financial status and flow of 
income of the Sagittarius asc borns would always be in an 
upward trend. Diamonds, documents, costly and valuable articles 
and paper currency of the Sagittarius asc borns will be of 
multiplying nature. 


Since it is a house of Saturn, the Sagittarius asc boms are 
basically misers; the amount and denomination of income would 
remain low; they will not hesitate to seize belongings of others. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Sagittarius asc boms will deal with and gain from financial 
institutions, government orders, savings and financial details of 
the nation. 


Sun is also the lord of 9th house to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will benefit out of ancestral properties, 
credibility, higher education, leadership, research, foreigners, 
information and communication, devotional services, 
endowments and through transplantation of organs, legal 
departments, agreements, ancient monuments and from life at 
foreign countries. 


If the 2na house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will have frequent income, act as advisers 
to financial institutions, and hold pearls and silver goods. 


Moon. is the lord of 8th house to Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius 
asc boms will derive benefits out of thefts, harassments, robbery, 
rapes, murders, cheatings, forgery, magic, threatening, bribery 


to&ttariiTs  —" * 287 


and all other illegal and anti-social means; gain from insurance, 
wills, old goods and scraps, service at dirty places or accident 
wards or mortuary in hospitals. 


If the 2na house falls in the star pf Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Sagittarius asc boms will hold valuable omaments made up of 
ruby and costly metals. They become spend-thrifts, dishonest 
and tell lies for fmancial benefits. They use rough and filthy 
language to threaten others for fmancial gains. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc bors will make financial gains from, 


(i) devotional services, arts and culture, sports, intelligence, 
imagination, religious rituals, prostitution and in love 
affairs. 

(ii) secret activities, investments, money lending, savings 
and hoardings. Further the Sagittarius asc borns will 
be able to regain their Jost goods and to reunite with 
separated member of their family. 


III House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI house of Kaalchakra is the III house to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc boms wilt feel happy through 
information and communication, agreements and travels. 


Since Aquarius is an airy sign, the Sagittarius asc borns will 
have to make repeated attempts to complete a work. They are 
tension-borme and get gonfused while undertaking travels. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign. So the Sagittarius asc boms will be 
firm, clear and concrete in their communications and 
publications. 


Since Aquarius is a house of Saturn, the Sagittarius asc boms 
will undertake frequent short-journeys, often have to walk, 

frequently change their stands, write anonymous letters and forge 
documents. 


If the 31d house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruledby Mars, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will communicate on behalf of his 
organisation or serve in information and Communication 


282. = °  Astrologics of kaaichakra 


departments such as posts & telegraphs , telecom, AIR, television, 
statistical departments, field publicity offices or in advertisement 
agencies. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) communicate and publish about share market, religion, 
sports, politics, arts & culture and will like to perform 
obscene and filthy dances. 


(ii) communicate through secret sources, lose evidences, 
gain documents against loans, lose savings documents, 
permanently lose their goods, get permanent separation 
from their family and gain information for their secret 
plans. 


If the 3ra house falls in the starof Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Sagittarius asc boms will work as clerks in embassies, 
become as mediators, enter into agreements with foreigners, 
establish international contacts and will be fond of foreign goods 
and articles. 


(Readers may please include the house significations of Jupiter 
for Rahu.) 


If the If house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will involve and deal in stamps; 
documents, legal agreements, legal orders, legal notices, true 
and correct information and negotiations on financial matters. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 1 & 4 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) record their thoughts, do as they wish, have independent 
thoughts, tend to show their strength, will have proper 
functioning of their neurological and blood circulatory 
system. 


(ii) lose physical energy, will be certifted in education, do 
business in the fields of fruits, vegetables, farms, 
livestock, seeds, nurseries, trees, educational goods, 
stationery, newspapers, vessels, furniture, groceries, 


Sagittari 283 


lands, vehicles, hardware, machineries and accessories 
and will take lease of ponds and bridges. 


IV Honse : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc borns will like to invest in lands, house, 
vehicles, machineries, and manufacturing. They will like to 
reside in bungalows with all comforts. They will live in 
individual houses in the end part of a main road or a street. 


Pisces is a watery sign. So the Sagittarius asc borns will change 
their residences to occasions, will excel in education and 
teaching and will involve in agriculture and water reservoirs. 


Pisces is acommon sign. The properties, lands, houses, vehicles 
and machineries would not last long with Sagittarius asc borns. 


Since Jupiter is the lord of Pisces, the Sagittarius asc borns 
will legally own properties such as big industries; will become 
real estate owners or manufacturers of food items, silk, cotton 
materials, turmeric and livestock. 


If the 4" house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will legally own properties like big 
industries; become real estate owners and manufacturers of food 
items, silk, cotton materials, turmeric and livestock. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses I & 4 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) produce with own ideas, have surplus energy production 
in the body, purchase things on their own, increase their 
strength and have proper functioning of lungs and heart. 


(it) have excessive energy production in the body, act 
according to their academic qualifications, involve in 
manufacturing fruits, vegetables, farms, livestock, seeds, 
nurseries, trees, educational accessories, stationery, 
newspaper, vessels, furniture, groceries, lands, vehicles, 
hardware, machineries and spares. 


If the 4'* house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will usurp village common lands; own 


284 Astrologics of kaqichakra 


mines; possess old buildings, scraps and old goods, wooden or 
clay articles, oil seeds and black coloured materials. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 2 & 3 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) own valuables and utility-oriented goods, old 
bungalows, keep things as their own or at their personal 
custody and like to store things in excess. 


(ii) leave their native places, have information about 
production processes, limit his production and publish 
books on manufacturing methods. 


If the 4in house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will possess micro instruments like 
computers, calculators, printers, electrical & electronic goods, 
spares, tiles and lathes etc; may assemble parts of machineries; 
may serve as ticket inspectors in transports. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 7 & 10 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) reside in government quarters, will become members 
of ration cards, purchase properties by acquiring loans 
from banks and will be members of societies and clubs. 


(ii) render honorary service, will be landlords, industrial 
owners, Will be responsible for government documents 
and earn name and fame. 


V House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Sagittarius. 
So the love affairs of Sagittarius asc borns will be full of 
struggles with ego-clashes. They will give birth to first child by 
Caesarean; they tend to make extravagant expenditures in the 
fields of arts and culture. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the Sagittarius asc borns will forcibly 
involve in love affairs, sexual pleasures, rapes, prostitution, 
obscene dances; their first child will be vigourous in sexual 
pleasures. 


Sagittarius 285 


Aries is a movable sign. So the Sagittarius asc bors will develop 
themselves day by day in intelligence, knowledge, arts and culture, 
religious faith and with increasmg number of red blood cells. 


Mars is the lord of Aries. So the Sagittarius asc borns will 
show arrogance in sexual affairs; they may become atheists, 
painters of vulgar drawings, sculptors, dancers or singers of filthy 
and obscene dances or songs, boxers and folk artists and may 
have children with excessive interest in sexual affairs. 


If the 5* house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will involve themselves in magics, 
mythical stories and prostitution. They age criminals in politics 
and would gain commissions through illegal trades. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, which is the lord of houses 7 & 
10 to Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) have harmonious relationships in societies and clubs, 
hve in quarters for artists, get musical instruments as 
government donations, own guest houses, serve in 
voluntary organisations and marry persons of their 
choice. 


(ii) hold honorary posts as artists, manufacture artistic 
goods, become responsible for temples, become 
administrators in artistic fields and earn professional 
name and fame. 


If the 5in house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Sagittarius asc boms will show interest in the fields of arts and 
culture, will excel as orators, politicians, astrologers, will act in 
vulgar roles and will perform glamourous dances. 


Venus is the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) run competitive examination centre for arts and crafts, 
become gynaecologists, lab technicians, nurses, feast- 
cooks, tailors and costume designers, producer of herbal 
medicines; commission agents and servants in lodges 
and cinema halls. 


286 " ~~ Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(ii) learn arts with commitment, construct lodges, form 
branches of unions, make joint ventures with societies, 
enjoy fortunes and favours, make achievements in 
production of livestock and like to be in the company of 
friends for pleasures. 


If the 5m house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will serve in government temples, 
government auditoriums, government sports functions, will 
become politicians, like to play the game of chess and provide 
details of government subsidy and welfare schemes. 


Sun is the lord of 9» house to Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius 
asc borns will enter into contracts for artistic performances, earn 
name and fame in higher education of arts and culture, hold 
responsible and honorary posts in the fields of arts and culture, 
become teachers of arts and culture, import artistic goods, run 
institutes of arts and culture, maintain temples, become members 
of village panchayat, protect ancient monuments, collect taxes 
for temples, will do clowning and have illegal affairs with 
foreigners. 


VI House : Taurus 


Taurus, the I] sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc borns will serve in the fields of finance, 
gold, silver, mortgage shops, banks, treasury, documents and 
litigations. 

Taurus is a fixed sign. So their service, borrowings, litigations, 
diseases, consumption of medicines, food, dresses and the 
digestive system are of permanent nature with steady and slow 
progress. 


Taurus is an earthy sign; so the Sagittarius asc borns will serve 
in the departments of health. They love to serve with devotion 
and commitment 


Taurus is a sign ruled by Venus. So the Sagittarius asc borns 
will serve in the fields of arts and culture, weaving and tailoring 
and in vegetable stores, fruit stalls, pamt shops, cosmetic stores, 
glassware, plastic industries, silk stores, and sweet stalls. 


Sagittarius 287 


If the 6" house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Sagittarius asc borns could avail government loans and help 
from government servants, face court cases filed by government, 
get government uniforms and serve in employment exchanges, 
food cells, poultry and departments of agriculture and health. 


Sun is the lord of 9 house to Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius 
asc borns will win contracts m ports, work in personnel and 
training departments, research centres, import sections, temples, 
endowments, courts, panchayat offices, ancient monuments, 
trusts and international organisations. 


If the 6"h house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will serve as daily labourers in water 
reservoirs, ships, and in the departments of fisheries, plumbing 
and in grain fields. They may suffer due to diseases caused by 
water and will soon lose physical energy due to diseases. 


Moon is the lord of 8 house to Sagittarius. The Sagittarius 
asc borns will have to render hard physical labour, serve under 
poor working conditions with heavy workload and work in repair 
shops. Their diseases may later lead to surgery. 


If the 6"house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will suffer due to muscle pains and heat- 
borne diseases, serve in factories or in hospitals, will become 
hard labourers in the fields of tailoring and catering and will 
produce food and medicines. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) serve in stock exchanges, cabaret clubs, liquor bars, 
prostitution dens, marriage registration offices or sports 
centres, chant mantras in religious rituals, produce sports 
goods and become pimps, proof-readers of political or 
sports articles. 


(ii) acquire loans through secret plans, repay loans by further 
borrowings, liquidate investments, serve in hospitals, 


will be breakeven with income and expenditures, 
become inactive due to ailments and diseases and will 


288 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


face litigations filed by the separated life/business 
partners. 


VII House : Gemini 


Gemini, the [If sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to 
Sagittarius. So the spouses of Sagittarius asc borns will be of 
generous attitude with interest in the fields of information & 


communication and are cautious with pre-planning in all walks 
of life. 


Gemini is an airy sign; so the spouses, business partners or 
customers of the Sagittarius asc borns will be intelligent. It is 
also a common sign; there may be fluctuations in the 
relationships with spouses, business partners and customers; 
Sagittartus asc boms may also suffer due to problems in kidneys. 


Gemini is a house of Mercury; so the spouses of Sagittarius 
asc boms will be witty in nature with cunningness and research 
capabihties. They will often meet well educated and intelligent 
persons. 


If the 7 house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will have undisciplined spouses/business 
partners; they will often meet with hars, anti-social elements 
and arrogant bank-officials. They will be forced to request 
assistance of others. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) often have to meet with lovers, artisans, painters, singers. 
astrologers, teachers, religious servants, priests, saints, 
prostitutes and pimps. 

(ii) often meet the following persons: secret planners, 
subversive activists, thieves, collectors of loan 
installments; will be raided or threatened by others by 


knowing the secrets of Sagittarius asc borns to cause 
losses to them. 


If the 7m house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Sagittartus borns will marry non-relatives and persons who may 


Sagittarius 289 


be lesbians/homosexuals or impotents and show arrogance in 
copulations. 


(For the house significations of Rahu, kindly include the house 
significations of Jupiter.) 


If the 7" house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Sagittarius asc boms will marry persons who are calm, quiet, 
responsible, adjustable natured. Their business partners and 
customers would also be of same nature. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 1 & 4 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) abide by collective thoughts, listen to others, become 
successful in joint ventures, suffer due to diseases in 
kidneys, uterus and abdomen regions, face oppositions, 
lack ability to make independent decisions, invite 
troubles by way of their actions from well-known 
persons. 


(ii) live with relatives, marry among relatives or persons 
living in same compound or apartments and often meet 
persons who manage the properties of the Sagittarius 
asc boms. 


VIII House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV house of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc borns will get into troubles 
and worries caused by their mothers, properties, lands, vehicles, 
household appliances and in accidents. 


Cancer is a watery sign; so the Sagittarius asc borns will meet 
with accidents in water reservoirs and in rainy seasons and suffer 
due to urinary infections. 


Cancer is a movable sign; so the life of Sagittarius asc borns 
are long but with prolonged troubles like accidents, pains, stress, 
disrespect and disputes etc. 


Moon is the lord of the 8th house. So the Sagittarius asc borns 
will suffer due to mental dejections, loss of consciousness, loss 


290. "AsTrologTcs of kaalchakra 


of memory, lack of education, accidents in water and due to 
anti-social thoughts. 


If the 8 house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will be punished by law, do illegal 
activities, have to face lawful threatening, face seizures and fines 
by court to lose properties and valuables. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses I & 4 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) lose self-thoughts, become inactive and have to snuggle; 
face stress and pains, get dejected, suffer due to allergy, 
inability to take independent decisions and have to face 
heavy workload. 


(H) suffer due to loss of organs in the body, meet with 
accidents, face troubles in lands, vehicles and in 
buildings, hurdles in education and frequent troubles in 
house-hold appliances and furniture. 


If the 8h house falls in the star gf Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will suffer due to disrespect, will be 
threatened, will become cowards, suffer due to loss of memory, 
abscond, have fear of death, mental oscillations; face false 
charges, modify old goods and involve in cruel activities. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 2 & 3 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) lead to controversies during talks, suffer due to allergy, 
unexpectedly gain gold and valuables and donate money 
or valuables beyond their capacity. 


(ii) become notorious, publish books on crimes, make 
mistakes in mathematics, spread rumours, suffer due to 
loss of memory and bone erosions, lose belongings, face 
hurdles in transfer orders, punishment in service, earn 
bad name and face troubles in service in communication 
and information departments. 


If the 8" house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Sagittarius asc borns wil} face troubles in negotiable 


Sagittarius 291 


instruments, documents, electrical and telephone connections, 
negotiations, anonymous letters, surety, absence of mind and 
neurological system. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 7 & 10 to Sagittarius. So 
the Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) show indiscipline and do corruption in social and 
voluntary organisations, invite opposition of government 
officials, face dejections in married life, will be cheated 
and threatened and put into disrespect by opponents and 
partners. 


(ii) face allegations m profession; become corrupt in 
profession and responsible posts, face disrespect in 
profession, and will be deprived of promotions. 


IX House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc boms may have illegal affairs; their 
ancestral properties will be passed on to their children; their 
fathers will have a long life; they will win benefits through 
international relations and research attempts. 


Leo is a fiery sign. So the Sagittarius asc boms will have needed 
intelligence for higher education, have strong faith in their 
religions, become polygamists and may lack in administrative 
capability. 


Leo is a fixed sign; so the Sagittarius asc bors will have 
stability in their foreign life; wm confidence and credibility; 
have permanent ties in illegal affairs; have smooth journeys and 
trouble-free higher education. 


Leo is ruled by Sun. So the Sagittarius asc boms will have 
faith in religious rituals and practices; involve in embassies and 
foreign organisations, government departments of research and 
finance. 


If the 9 house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
Sagittarius asc bors will become judges in criminal courts, 
forensic researchers, investigators in criminology, involve in 


292 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


subversive activities in foreign nations, trainers for illegal 
activities and smugglers. 


Ketu would act like Mercury as far as significations of houses 
are concemed. Mercury is the lord of houses 7 & 10 to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) become disciplined and sincere workers in social service 
or voluntary organisations, gain fyiendships with 
government officials, get due recognition from 
government for their voluntary organisations; marry 
second time, may have affairs with the younger sister of 
wife and have illegal or extra-marital affairs. 


(ii) involve or serve in communication, transport, imports 
& exports, mines, ports, electricity, plumbing, oil wells, 
personnel departments, teaching, research centres, 
international relations, temples, endowments, courts, 
collection of temple taxes, trusts, panchayat offices and 
ancient monuments ) 


If the 9 house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by Venus, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will involve in research fields of arts 

and culture, higher education, transport and feast halls; may 

have illegal affairs and have relationships with foreigners or 

teachers. 


Venus is the lord of houses 6 & 11 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) become supervisors of competitive exam centres, nurses, 
medical examiners, suffer due to increase in hereditary 
disorders or side-effects of medicines or excessive 
consumption of food and due to acidity, successful in 
joint ventures in medicines, get separated from second 
wife, get rid of illegal affairs, get employment 
Opportunities on heirship, face allegations in lodges, 
enter into mutual agreements in international 
organisations and find themselves amidst illegal affairs 
during research assignments. 


Sagittarius 293 


(ii) study diploma courses, hold honorary posts, complete 
research process, earn name and fame, take oath of 
service, always remain happy and harmonious, have co- 
operation and win agreements with societies, have 
fortunate opportunities , make achievements in research 
fields, find right approach and will be fond of fatty food 


items. 


If the 9® house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Sagittarius asc boms will have faith in religious rituals and 
practices; involve in the fields of foreign embassies and 
organisations, government research centres and finance 
departments. 


Sun is also the lord of 9* house to Sagittarius. So Sagittarius 
asc boms will become national leaders, excellent researchers, 
ambassadors, judges and involve themselves with embassies, 
religious institutions and government finance departments. 


X House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the X house of Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc boms will serve in the fields of dress, 
catering, chemicals, dyeing, medicines, and printing etc. 


Virgo is an earthy sign; so the Sagittarius asc boms will deal 
in the fields of medicine, food, dress, vegetables, agriculture 
and vessels for storing grains; 


Virgo is acommon sign; so the status, profession, prestige and 
posts of the Sagittarius asc boms will see fluctuations. 


Virgo is a sign of Mercury. So the Sagittarius asc borns will 
do business and deal with micro-instruments, scales, pipes, rods, 
wires, greenish articles, stationeries , note books, calculators and 
computers. 


If the 10 house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Sagittarius asc boms will become higher officials or hold 
honorary posts in the government and serve in government 
offices, industrial centres, vocational guidance institutes, 
employment exchanges and government commercial complexes. 


294 —  Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Sun is also the lord of 9" house to Sagittarius; So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will serve in social service institutions or 
voluntary organisations or marriage registration offices, export 
organisations, educational institutions, research departments, 
religious departments, transport organisations, communication 
and information departments, electricity or water departments, 
oil wells, space research centres, trusts, temples, courts, 
panchayat offices, ancient monuments, foreign embassies and 
pohtical parties, enter into agreements with government officials 
and will become leaders, honorary officials, judges and 
ambassadors. 


If the I0n house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, 
Sagittarius asc boms will work m the fields of water and liquids, 
medicines, white coloured articles, retail sales, imports and 
exports, ships, ports, fishing, boats, pipes and wells. 


Moon is also the lord of 8th house to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will do illegal and anti-social professions, 
modify old goods and become professional criminals. 


If the 10" house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Sagittarius asc bors will work in industries, in the fields 
wherein fire is used or in construction fields or in the offices of 
police, mihtary and administration; become responsible officers 
for government documents. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) serve in religious rituals, arrange pilgrimages, become 
pimps, priests, sanyasis, prophets, religious preachers, 
astrologers, actors, singers, poets, artisans, 
gynaecologists and manufacturers of medicines. 


(ii) do business with secret contacts; work in two fields, 
spend or invest on profession, have secret contacts in 
new profession and do research work. 


Sagittarius 295 


XI House: Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house of Sagittarius. 
So the Sagittarius asc boms will fulfil their desires only through 
their spouses or partners; win in joint ventures and win friendship 
with love and flexibility. 


Libra is an airy sign; so the Sagittarius asc borns will always 
remain happy and free from wornes and will be enthusiastic 
and joyful. 


Libra is a movable sign; so the ambitions, happiness and 
expectations of the Sagittarius asc borns will always be on the 
increasing side. 


Libra is a house of Venus; so the Sagittarius asc boms will 
always be persons of joy and happiness; they will always expect 
happy things and occasions in their life; have cordial and 
harmonious relationships with friends, elder brothers, sons-in- 
law and daughters-in-law. 


If the 11™house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Sagittarius asc borns will have insincere frends, elder brothers, 
sons-in-law and daughters-in-law; have to struggle for 
fulfillment of their desires and ambitions and will remain greedy. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 5 & 12 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will, 


(i) have happy and harmonious relationships, have sexual 
pleasures with persons of their choice, enter into mutual 
agreements for peace and will be interested in arts and 
culture. 


(ii) become happy in secret contacts, invest in desired fields, 
disclose and expose secret matters; succeed in research 
attempts and have secret interests through friends 


If the 11™ house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Sagittarius asc bors will maintain friendships with foreigners, 
hide selfish motives in the name of public interest and they like 
sadistic pleasures. 


296 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(For the house significations of Rahu, kindly include the 
significations of Jupiter.) 


If the 11™house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Sagittarius asc boms will expect things legally, limit their 
desires within the boundary of law, have true, sincere and 
intelligent friends, sons-in-law or daughters-in law. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 1 & 4 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) always think about themselves, greedy, selfish, like to 
taste variety of foods, have mdependent thought and 
imagination and will make novel changes in their 
activities. 


(ii) purchase things as desired, purchase properties with 
encumbrances; have frequent repairs in vehicles and 
their belongings would get damaged. 


XII House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to 
Sagittarius. So the Sagittarius asc borns will lose money and 
valuables lent to others and will incur losses in investments. 


Scorpio is a watery sign; so the Sagittarius asc boms will have 
the capability to find water sources through research and would 
like to invest on liquid articles. 


Since Scorpio is a fixed sign, the Sagittarius asc borns will 
permanently have links for secret activities, permanently lose 
money or capital, make speedy and unexpected expenditure and 
permanently become inactive due to diseases. 


Scorpio is.a house of Mars. So the Sagittarius asc boms will 
involve in secret and illegal activities, adulteration, hoardings, 
surgery in hospitals, service at prostitution dens, investigation 
and smugglings. 

If the 12 house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will get troubles and worried in legal 


surveillance, legal notices and threatening, income-tax raids, 
seizure of benami properties by government, legal imprisonment, 


Sagittarius 297 


printing of fake currency and secret financial auditing etc. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 1 & 4 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc boms will, 


(i) lose physical energy, have inferiority complex, under- 
estimate themselves, lack interest in materialistic things, 
suffer due to allergy, lack imagination and self-care, face 
hurdles in actions and carry memories of sad incidents 
for long. 


(ii) invest in things of their choice, have excellent vehicles 
and tend to keep belongings in safe custody and in 
secrecy. 


if the 12" house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will take secret revenges, 
misappropriate and hoard things, undertake secret and subversive 
plans, do adulterations and go to the worst extent in their secret 
activities. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 2 & 3 to Sagittarius. So the 
Sagittarius asc borns will; 


(i) regain outstanding money, suffer due to eye diseases 
and digestive disorders; invest in gold and valuables and 
will have secret sources of income. 


(ii) make false propaganda and damaging publications in 
magazines, lose energy, face breach of agreements and 
negotiations, sell books, make mistakes in accounting, 
lose memory power and will not get due information. 


If the 12m house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Sagittarius asc borns will improvise micro instruments 
through secret research, keep secret notes and accounts, possess 
secret documents and photographs and enter into secret 
agreements. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 7 & 10 to Sagittarius. So 
the Sagittarius asc boms will, 


298 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) choose foreigners as life/business partners, live in 
separation from relatives, hate others and keep away 
from opposite sex. 


(ii) hold posts with secret responsibilities; undertake works 
with heavy workloads and jobs with dual nature 
(telephone operator cum receptionist, for example). 


Besides the above, the residentships of planets could also be 
included for comprehensive study. 


Sagittarius 299 


10 


Capricorn 


General nature of the sign Capricorn 


It is an earthy, movable and feminine sign; even sign; white in 
colour; semi-fruitful sign; short ascension; denotes thighs in body 
parts; affectionate and shows love towards others; quick in 
grasping, coward, self-pride, selfish, excessive interest in sexual 
pleasures by nature, seas, private and isolated places, slums, 
dirty & congested places, hospitals, graveyards, jails, mortuary, 
cattle shops, caves & pits: X sign of Zodiac, house of Saturn, 
north in direction, early mornings of a day, Pausa in Saka and 
Thai in Tamil calendars. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF CAPRICORN 


(a) Itis an earthy sign : Affectionate and would be affected 
by sentiments. 


(b) It is a movable sign : Intelligent, high and dignified 
thoughts and active. 


(c) It is a house of Saturn : Tend to tell more lies and 
imaginary stories; obedient and sincere. 


(d) It is X house of Kaalchakra :Naturally gain status and 
prestige; dissatisfactions in sexual pleasures, inferiority 
complex, self-pride and fond of publicity. 


In the same manner, the remaining significations of Capricorn 
could also be studied, 


300 AStrologics of kaalchakra 


The sign Capricorn extends over three stars leading to the 
following body natures. 


1. Uttarashada: Owned by Sun: High percentage of calcium. 
2. Shravana: Owned by Moon: Waterborne body 


3. Dhanishta: Owned by Mars: Fleshy with excessive heat 
in the body 


If the Asc falls in the star of Uttarashada, the Capricorn asc 
borns will be majestic in appearance with self-pride, prestige, 
strong bones in the body, authoritativeness, leadership and 
generosity. 


Uttarashada is the star of Sun which is the lord of 8th house to 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc borns will suffer due to stress 
and pains, mental worries and agony, become inactive, face 
disrespect, threatening, atternpt suicide or murders, will be 
punished or face damages in the organs of the body. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Capricorn asc borns will rernain calm in appearance, quick 
but inconsistent in actions, have fluctuating minds, have 
excessive content of water/liquids in the body, have more 
thoughts, reluctant to assume responsibilities, flexible, never 
bother about false prestige and will carry team spirit. 


Moon is the lord of 7th house to Capricorn. So the Capricorn 
asc boms will depend on others, get due social recognition and 
social relations and will abide by rules and conventions. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Capricorn asc borns will be bold and courageous in their 
actions, short-tempered and violent, will not respect others, 
selfish, arrogant in appearance, rough and uncompromising, will 
not listen to others, proud and will lack in discipline. 


Mars is the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) show interest in education, have inclination to run 
educational centres or libraries, show interest in grain 


Capricorn 301 


fields, gardens and like to maintain ponds or water 
reservoirs. 


(ii) be selfish, greedy, happy and joyful, counsellor of 
societies, enjoy fortunes, gain success and would make 
achievements, remain happy and flexible with others. 


II House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc borns will tend to express 
their pride, selfish attitude and greedy nature in their 
conversations. 


Aquarius is an airy sign. So the words and assurances given by 
the Capricorn asc borns would not remain constant and would 
fly in the direction of opportunistic winds. They would not stick 
to their words by way of their self-pride. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will be 
adamant and inflexible in their conversations. 


Since Aquarius is a house of Saturn, the Capricorn asc boms 
tend to speak lies freely without any hesitation or being guilty- 
conscious. 


III House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign to Kaalchakra is the III house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will have secret mental worries; 
have a tendency to leave home and family, have secret 
communications and their minds will wander into secret things. 


Pisces is a watery sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will have 
fluctuating and wavering minds. 


Pisces is acommon sign meaning that the Capricorn asc bom 
will have oscillating minds and will lack in needed courage. 


Since Pisces is a house of Jupiter, the lord of houses 3 & 12 to 
Capricorn, the Capricorn asc boms tend to face huge losses 
due to their fluctuations of mind and by way of leaving their 
residences. 


302 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


IV House : Aries 


Aries, the I sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Capricorn. 
So Capricorn asc borns will gain status by way of their 
education and will excel mn their education. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the behaviour of Capricorn asc borns 
will not reflect the standards of their education. 


Since Aries is a movable sign, the Capricorn asc boms will 
show progress 1m their education and will gain authority through 
their education. 


Aries is a sign of Mars; so the Capricorn asc boms will face 
struggles and hardships during the course of their studies but 
will show arrogance and commitment towards their studies. 


V House: Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc bors will be money-minded in the fields 
of arts and culture and even in their love affairs and towards 
their children. 


Since Taurus is an earthy sign, the Capricorn asc boms will 
be possessive and affectionate towards their children and in love 
affairs; will show excessive interest in the fields of arts, culture 
and theology. 


Taurus is a fixed sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will be 
blessed with children with long life and they will show sustained 
interest in the fields of arts and culture. Their love affairs would 
last long. 


Since Taurus is a house of Venus, the lord of houses 5 & 10 to 
Capricorn, the Capricorn asc borns will gain status and prestige 
in the fields of arts and culture but would be dissatisfied by 
their children and love affairs. 


VI House : Gemmi 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will have diseases in sensory organs, 


Capricorn 303 


blood vessels and in nerves; gain success through confidence 
and courage. 


Since Gemini is an airy sign, the Capricorn asc borns will 
suffer due to respiratory disorders. They will gain success with 
pride. 


Since Gemini is a common sign, the Capricorn asc bprns may 
have to face frequent litigations and problems of ill health. 


Since Gemini is a house of Mercury, the lord of houses 6 & 9 
to Capricorn, the Capricorn asc borns will suffer due to 
physical changes and htigations in rehgious service and may 
have affairs with servants. 


VII House : Cancer 


Cancer, the 1V sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will] often meet with persons 
belonging to higher social strata such as landlords, influential 
persons and academicians. 


Since Cancer.is a watery sign, the Capricorn asc boms will 
get desired benefits out of opposite sex.. 


Cancer is a movable sign; so the Capricorn asc borns will 
tend to maintain sustained and prolonged social relationships. 
Since Cancer is a house of Moon, the Capricorn asc borns 
will often meet with persons of wavering minds. 

VIII House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will face disrespect in the fields of 
arts and culture and in love affairs. 


Since Leo is a fiery sign, the Capricorn asc borns will be short- 
tempered, arrogant, meet with fire accidents and face problems 
subsequent to quarrels. 


Leo is a fixed sign; so the problems of the Capricorn asc borns 
will remain unsolved for long. 


304 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Since Leo is a house of Sun, the Capricorn asc borns will face 
problems or disrespect by government and they will be troubled 
by excessive heat in the body. 


IX House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Capricorn; 
the Capricorn asc borns will become successful in their higher 
studies and especially in the fields related to traditions, culture 
and management. 


Since Virgo is an earthy sign, the Capricorn asc boms will 
have research mind and extract work from their sub-ordinates 
by encouraging them and through pleasant manners. 


Virgo is a common sign; so the Capricorn asc borns will 
frequently undertake journeys and research ventures. 


Since Virgo is a house of Mercury, the ruler of houses 6 & 9, 
the Capricorn asc borns will not hesitate to assume 
responsibilities, have international contacts, become lawyers 
and counsellors and will study medical sciences. 


X House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will gain status through public 
relations, through wife and business partners. 


Libra is an airy sign. So the Capricorm asc boms will earn 
name and fame, status and prestige but would show seltf-pride 
in their professional fields. 


Libra is a movable sign. So the status and prestige of the 
Capricorn asc boms will always be in an upward trend. 


Since it is a house of Venus, the ruler of houses 5 & 10 to 
Capricom, they will get due social recognition in the fields of 
arts and culture. 


Capricorn 305 


XI House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to 
Capricorn; so the Capricorn asc boms will fulfil their desires 
only after prolonged struggles. 


Scorpio is a watery sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will! get 
unexpected gains in the process Of fulfilling their ambitions and 
desires. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will carry 
long standing desires permanently. 


Since Scorpio is a house of Mars, the lord of houses 4 &11 to 
Capricorn, the Capricorn asc borns will give displeasures 
during sexual relationships. 


XII House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the. IX sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc boms will have a mind to 
illegally possess and hoard gold and valuables and will have 
secret illegal affairs. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will be 
arrogant in their illegal activities. 


Sagittarius is a common sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will 
spend too much for endowment services and for maintaining 
temples. 


Since Sagittarius is a house of Jupiter, the lord of houses 3 & 
12, the Capricorn asc borns may be imprisoned due to illegal 
affairs. 


306 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF CAPRICORN UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT | 


II House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc borns will be greedy in 
financial matters. They tend to earn as they wish and would 
always be money minded. They will try to justify and establish 
false ideas into real. 


Aquarius is an airy sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will tend 
to make money out of their skill of eloquence. They are very 
clear in their speech regarding financial matters. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will 
permanently hold gold, valuables, diamonds, money, costly 
articles and documents. 


Aquarius is a house of Saturn. So the Capricorn asc borns 
will remain as misers, belong to salaried class, will not hesitate 
to tell lies in financial matters, have a tendency to seize 
belongings of others and possess costly but ancient wooden 
articles. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Capricorn asc bors will tell lies, will be spendthrifts, dishonest 
and intend to seize others’ money, courageous or arrogant in 
conversations, hurt the feelings of others in their speech and 
make false remarks by using filthy and arrogant language. 


Mars is the lord of the houses 4 & II to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) have excessive productions in the body and gain from 
education, fruits and vegetables, grain fields, farms, 
educational centres, hbraries and leases of ponds and 
water reservoirs. 


(ii) make profits with greedy nature and in easy means; gain 
out of societies, achievements, romance, fortunes, 
success and by entertaining and engaging others. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
Capricorn "307 


the Capricorn asc borns will speak calmly by assuming 
themselves as experts in their respective fields, possess money 
of foreigners or foreign exchange, guide foreigners and will get 
foreign scholarships. 


(Rahu would act like Jupiter in the house significations.) 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Capricorn asc borns will earn money in higher 
denominations, will be paid higher salaries, possess gold and 
valuables and may become bankers or jewellery shop owners. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 3 & 12 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc bors will, 


(i) speak intellectually, gain through writings and 
publications, courageous acts, intelligent arguments, 
information, negotiable instruments and transfers; gain 
from works of their mental inclination, show interest in 
monetary profits, gain self-confidence, adapt themselves 
for economic gains. 


(ii) get profits out of secret activities, gain by way of losing 
organs or by donating blood, gain through savings, 
investments, secret plans and treasures and regain lost 
goods. 


HI House: Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra 1s the. III house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will carry secret mental worries, 
maintain secrecy in information and communication, 
agreements, letters and in journeys. 


Since Pisces is a watery sign, the Capricorn asc boms will 
quickly grasp things but with fluctuating minds. 


Pisces is acommon sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will have 
fluctuations in their courage and confidence, intelligence, 
functioning of the body, sensory organs and blood vessels, 
informations and communications, transfers and writings. 


Since Pisces is a sign of Jupiter, the Capricorn asc boms will 


308 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


deal in documents, stamps, cheques , monetary negotiations, true 
information, legal agreements, legal orders and notices. 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Poorvabadra ruled by Jupiter, 
then the Capricorn asc borns wil} deal in documents, stamps, 
cheques, monetary negotiations, true information, legal 
agreements, legal orders and notices. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 3 & 12 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) get press publicity, clearly show intelligence and mental 
attitude in their writings, express own thoughts, have 
debating talents, encourage others through their writings 
and will show confidence and mental stabihty. 


(ii) communicate on secret activities, enter into agreements 
for donating organs of the body, lose evidences kept in 
secret, receive documents against borrowings, lose 
savings certificates, get details for secret activities, lose 
their own properties and permanently get separated from 
their family. 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Capricorn asc boms will be fearful, undertake short 
journeys, become writers, write anonymous letters, forge 
documents, change themselves and may have to walk long 
distances. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 1 & 2 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) record their self-thoughts, have courageous thoughts and 
actions, proper functioning of sensory organs, blood 
vessels and neuro system, have physical strength, have 
independent thoughts and would like to show their 
strength. 


(ii) have writing skills, write truths , possess grasping power 
and deal in negotiable instruments. 


If the 3rd cusp falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, the 
Capricorn asc borns will write stories and articles and will be 


Capricorn "555 


document writers, advertisers, postmen, clerks, ambassadors, 
communicators, electricians, tax collectors, proof readers & 
brokers. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) gain success in competitive examinations, render 
medical counselling, sell food items, medicines, medical 
equipments, sellers or tailors of garments, housekeepers, 
lawyers, pay-bill clerks, rent collectors, accountants, 
postmen and lessors. 


(ii) enter into honest agreements, earn fame, exchange 
money, get certificate for higher education, will become 
messengers, sign agreements for research works, 
negotiate for endowment works, have international 
contacts, will become clerks in legal departments, work 
as mediators, give guidance about ancient monuments, 
work for sales-tax accounts and have government 
contacts in religious services etc. 


IV House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will lead in the fields of lands, 
houses, vehicles, education, production and machinery; like to 
install huge industries; may hve m apartments and in the first 
part of amain road. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will work 
with fire and live in congested places and fiercely involve in 
their studies. 


Aries is a movable sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will have 
consistent development and improvement in their education, 
lands, vehicles, machinery, houses and belongings. 


Aries is the house of Mars; So the Capricorn asc borns will 
fiercely involve themselves in studies, show more interest in 
holding properties and may own agricultural lands, cattle, 
machinery used for chemicals, fertihzers and huge industries. 


310 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


If the 4" house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Capricorn asc boms will own properties with litigations seize 
others’ properties or treasures and manufacture forged or 
substandard goods or drugs. 


Ketu would act like Mercury. Mercury is the lord of houses 6 
& 9 to Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) run centres for competitive examinations and medical 
laboratories, undertake caterings or tailoring, produce 
medicines or medical equipments, become money 
lenders against properties, accountants, purchasers, 
lessors, sellers of hide and wool, organize medical 
camps and live in rented houses. 


(ii) gain contracts against properties, earn fame in education, 
enter into barter exchanges, become teachers for higher 
classes, importers, maintain relationships with 
foreigners, run research centres, produce artificial 
organs, gain foreign subsidy, form trusts for maintaining 
temple properties, serve as clerks in courts or panchayat 
boards and become protectors of ancient monuments. 


If the 4* cusp falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Capricorn asc boms will own forts, palaces, flower or vegetable 
gardens, manufacture cosmetics, glassware, plastics and films, 
run schools for constructions, vehicles, arts and culture. 


Venus is also the lord of house’ 5 & 10 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) deal in company shares, Vedic, spiritual granthas, 
politics, sports, poems, stories, articles, trainings in the 
fields of arts and culture, sports centres, auditoriums, 
marriage registration offices, manufacturing of artistic 
goods, prostitution dens or asylums and places of 
religious rituals, 


(ii) hold honorary, administrative and responsible posts, 
become industrial owners, in-charge of government 
documents, earn name and fame in professional fields 
and heads of departments. 


Capricorn 31] 


If the 4in house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Capricorn asc borns will live in government quarters, serve in 
government buildings, possess village common lands, get 
government pattas, possess government vehicles, own 
agricultural lands, wells, ponds, water tanks, grain fields, take 
lease of hills, forests, serve in housing or automobile divisions 
of the government. 


Sun is the lord of 8m house to Capricorn. So the Capricorn 
asc borns will seize properties by harassing others, have 
litigations in properties, indulge in robberies, reproduce with 
scraps, own damaged buildings, live in dirty places, work at 
operation theaters, slaughter houses, accident wards, 
mortuary, graveyards, anti-corruption wings, vehicle 
insurance sector, forged goods etc. 


V House : Taurus 


Taurus, the I sign of Kaalchakra, is the V house to Capricorn. 
The Capricorn ase borns will gain from their love affairs, 
through their children and in religious activities; however they 
will never get satisfied. Their first child will suffer due to health 
problems. 


Since Taurus is an earthy sign, the Capricorn asc borns will 
be interested in the fields of arts and culture, will be affectionate 
in their love affairs. 


Since Taurus is a fixed sign, the Capricorn asc borns will have 
wisdom and knowledge, artistic interests; they will show 
sustained interest in their love affairs and religious faiths; they 
will be blessed with children. 


Venus is the lord of Taurus. So the Capricorn asc boms will 
show interest in the fields of arts, culture, politics and astrology; 
they will excel as best speakers and pundits; they may not hesitate 
to involve in prostitution or entertaining others. 


If the 5m house falls in the star of Krittiga ruled by Sun, the 
Capricorn asc borns will involve in government owned temples, 
government hotels, politics, religion and government sponsored 


312 A strologicsof kaalch akra 


arts or sports festivals, details of government subsidies and in 
chess game. 


Sun is the lord of 8 house to Capricorn. So the Capricorn 
asc boms will involve in rape, face disrespect, seizures of 
properties, punishments, repair old musical instruments, hve in 
dirty places and get cheated. 


If the 5: house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Capricorn asc boms will excel m character roles in films and 
dramas will be poets, thinkers, cricket players; will be quick in 
sexual pleasures, associate with recreation clubs, sports clubs 
and will be blessed with children. 


Moon is the ruler of the 7in house to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will maintain cordial and harmonious 
relations with society, get musical mstruments as donations, 
serve in guest houses, live in government quarters for artists, 
associate themselves with voluntary organizations and will marry 
the girl or boy of their own choice. 


If the 5th house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Capricorn asc boms will be arrogant during copulations, have 
children with more interest in sexual pleasures, will not hesitate 
to act in obscene scenes and will be atheists, sculptors, painters 
or cabaret dancers. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) have excessive energy production in the body, work for 
artistic trainings, produce nutrition foods, livestock or 
musical instruments or cosmetics, work in journals and 
arrange music and dance programs. 


(ii) construct lodges, learn arts with commitment, form 
branches of unions or societies, enter into fortunate 
agreements, enjoy luck in lotteries, purchase properties 
with litigations, spend time with friends of their choice 
with joy and will construct artistically beautiful 
buildings. 


Capricorn 313 


VI House : Gemimi 


Gemini, the III sign of the Kaalchakra is the VI house of 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc boms will frequently meet 
with court cases; serve in information and communication 
departments and in the fields of writings, agreements and 
contracts; they will be exphcitly courageous and confident in 
their work. 


Gemini is an airy sign; So the Capricorn asc boms will suffer 
due to respiratory disorders; serve in gas or petroleum, radio, 
air force, dye companies and research centres. 


Gemini is acommon sign; So the Capricorn asc boms will see 
fluctuations in their health problems, food, dress, medicines, 
loans and. borrowings, success, court cases, digestive system 
and in service. 


Gemini is a house of Mercury. So the Capricorn asc borns 
would mostly be accountants, money collectors, printers, 
computer operators, neurologists, nurses , compounders, office 
clerks, labour contractors, money Jenders on installment basis 
and serve in commercial centres. 


If the 6m house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Capricorn asc borns will suffer due to muscle pains and diseases 
caused by excessive heat, serve in industries or medical 
departments, will be in the fields of catering or tailoring and 
they will have hard workers as their servants. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms, 


(i) will have excessive production in the body, serve in the 
fields of Jands, houses, vehicles and buildings, prepare food 
items, maintain hvestock, work for daily wages, as school 
teachers, produce house-hold appliances, furniture and 
make arrangements for music and drama stages. 


(ii) could win only after struggles; stay in lodges, serve in 
societies, gain success in court cases against societies, 


have fortunate opportunities and employment 
opportunities, make achievements in service, will be able 


314 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


to rightly diagnose diseases and will be able to employ 
servants of their choice. 


If the 6 house falls in the star gf Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Capricorn asc borns will suffer due to respiratory problems, 
will be fond of taking excessive food, serve in drug industries, 
work as anaesthetist or respiratory assistant, deal in drugs and 
intoxicants. 


(Please include house significations of Jupiter for Rahu). 


If the 6 house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Capricorn asc borns will serve in large industries, banks, 
preside over functions, fond of fatty food items, suffer due to 
diseases in blood cells, acquire loans through popular 
personalities, will be bank cashiers, medical officers, lawyers 
and workers in legal departments. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 3 & 12 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) get press publicity about their success, publish 
professional books, serve in advertisement, information 
and communication departments, perform works to their 
strength, enter into agreements of employment, receive 
appointment or transfer orders and undertake works of 
their choice. 


(ii) acquire loans through secret plans, clear debts by 
acquiring further loans, will be able to liquidate 
investments, will become doctors; face court cases filed 
by separated member of the family, face breakeven in 
financial status and become inactive due to ill health. 


VII House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra ts the VI] house to Capricom. 
So the life partners of Capricorn asc borns will have 
dissatisfactions in all walks of life and will become experts in 
their chosen fields. 


Cancer is a watery sign; so the life/business partners of 


Capricorn 315 


Capricorn boms would be god-fearing and the Capricorn asc 
borns would gain out of them. 


Cancer is a movable sign. So the relationships between the 
Capricorn asc borns and their spouses/business partners would 
progressively develop with time. 


Cancer is a house of Moon. So the life/business partners of 
Capricorn asc borns will be young, energetic and quick but 
with wavering minds and will like to be quick during their 
copulations. 


If the 7in house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Capricorn asc borns will have calm and adjustable life/ 
business partners and establish contacts with popular 
personalities as their business customers. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 3 & 12 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(I) get press-publicity with the assistance of others, publish 
books on social service, become advertisers, spend 
energy for the cause of others, enter into agreements of 
meetings, write letters of recommendation, issue news 
of transition or change, work in the fields wherein others 
are also inclined, register or gain confidence through 
others, write petitions, serve in information and 
communication departments and may marry neighbour. 


(ii) make secret planning, collect loans, will be thieves, give 
troubles to others, have secret contacts, gain capital or 
investment from others, incur losses for the cause of 
others and will be threatened by persons who know their 
secrets. 


If the 7" house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, the 
spouses/business partners of Capricorn asc borns will be 
undisciplined, insincere, liars and doubting natured people. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 1 & 2 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


316 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) abide by collective thoughts; listen to others; suffer due 
to diseases in kidneys, uterus and abdomen regions; gain 
success through joint ventures; be inactive due to lack 
of immunity; face increasing opposition, unable to take 
independent decisions, induce competitions by way of 
their actions and marry persons who are well known to 
them. 


(ii) receive financial assistance from others, gain gold and 
valuables with the assistance of others, get profitable 
dealings with banks, lack digestive capacity, do things 
as help, serve for more that the needs of others and will 
become a part of their family. 


If the 7 house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the spouses/business partners of Capricorn asc borns will be 
clever, witty, cunning natured and research minded people and 
excel in academics. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


({) often meet with bank officers, money lenders, patients, 
doctors, cooks, lawyers and would suffer due to 
contagious diseases. 


(ii) often meet with leaders, foreigners, exporters, judges, 
priests, teachers and people with social recognition. 


VIII House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will lose their reputation and respect 
in their love affairs, religious rituals and through their children. 


Leo is a fiery sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will face damages 
in their bones; they may be threatened or murdered; they may 
often meet with fire accidents and they may sometimes become 
violent. 


Leo is a fixed sign; so the Capricorn asc borns will have a long 
life; their worries, stress, pains, disrespect and loss of name and 
fame would last long. 


Capricorn “31 


Leo is a house of Sun. So the properties of Capricorn asc bom 
will be seized by the government; may misappropriate 
government money; may be punished by government on criminal 
charges; meet with fire accidents and they may enter politics 
but would subsequently quit. 


Ifthe 8* house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
Capricorn asc born swill get mto illegal activities and get 
subsequent punishments, will not hesitate to involve in thefts, 
subversive activities and harassments; black-mailing and 
rumour-mongering. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 6 & 9 to 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) face problems in competitive examination centres, face 
increase in their diseases due to maltreatment, acidity, 
side effects of medicines and neghgence of nurses, suffer 
due to allergy of food and dresses, meet with accidents 
in manufacturing of medicines and face allegations in 
service records. 


(ii) face troubles in port contracts, imports, closure of offices 
for international agreements, teaching profession, due 
to cancellation of transfer orders, fire accidents in 
research laboratories, closure of religious endowments, 
cheatings in temple charities, punishments by courts, 
splits in panchayat boards and damages in ancient 
monuments. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Poorvapalgunt, ruled by Venus, 
the Capricorn asc boms will be put into disrespect and their 
reputation will be spoilt by women; kidnap, rape and threaten 
women; will be troubled by women and often receive bad news 
through women. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 5 & 10 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc bors will, 


(i) meet with accidents im music or drama stages, involve 
in rape, prostitution and consequently lose reputation, 
face disrespect im the fields of short-stories, articles, 


318 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


politics, arts, culture, sports and misbehaviour in dance 
programs or in liquor bars or holy places wherein 
rehgious rituals are performed; 


(ii) face allegations in the substantiation process in service, 
involve in corruption and misappropriation while 
holding high offices, lose name and fame and face 
hurdles in their promotion process. 


If the 8h house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the properties of Capricorn asc borns will be seized by the 
government; they may misappropriate government money; 
punished by the government on criminal charges; meet with 
fire accidents and may enter but would subsequently quit from 
politics. 


Sun is also the lord of 8th house to Capricorn. So the Capricom 
asc boms will face untimely death, may be murdered or harassed; 
may enter into quarrels, face stress and pains, may become 
traitors, involve in all kinds of illegal activities, will be hanged 
to death, take revenge, will seize properties of others and opt 
for anti-social means. 


IX House: Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc boms will suffer from venereal diseases, 
face litigations in foreign journeys, serve in finance departments 
or foreign embassies and may have illegal affairs. 


Virgo is an earthy sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will be 
polygamists, have international contacts, knowledge and 
research capacity; will not like to share their knowledge. 


Virgo is a common sign; higher education, journeys, life at 
foreign nat ions, research, confidence and illegal affairs of the 
Capricom asc borns wilt not last long and would see many 
fluctuations. 


Virgo is a sign of Mercury. So the Capricorn asc borns will 
serve as clerks in research centres, high school teachers, 
statisticians, counsellors, lawyers, mathematicians, agents of 
imports and exports, cashiers in government treasury and in 


Capricorn 319 


information, communication and advertising departments. 


If the 9th house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Capricorn asc borns will involve themselves in the fields 
of religion, higher education, foreign embassies, finance 
departments, government research centres and foreign 
organisations. 


Sun is the lord of 8 house to Capricorn. So the Capricorn 
asc borns will unexpectedly meet with government seizures, 
damages in properties and government buildings, stealing 
government documents, top leaders of the nation, death, quitting 
politics, government punishment, death penalty, removal of 
encroachments, charge-sheet, criminal activities, fire accidents. 


If the 9tn house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Capricorn asc borns will have faster research capacity, will be 
able to discover new things and mun private research centres, 
excel in higher education and may become professors, have 
illegal affairs with widows and contacts with ships or money 
lending. 


Moon is also the lord of 7th house to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will show discipline in social service 
centres, make friendships with government officials, get needed 
government recognition to their social clubs, may remarry, enter 
into second partnerships and may have sexual affair with sister 
of wife. 


If the 9" house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Capricorn asc boms will study agriculture, geology, machines, 
history and archaeology; will become politicians, head masters, 
transport owners, landlords, criminal lawyers and judges. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Capricorn. So the 
-Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) study teacher training, have ancestral properties, have 
properties in foreign countries, import goods, run schools 
or colleges or research laboratories, possess automobiles, 
involve in manufacturing process, become trustees of 
temple properties and own grain fields. 


320 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(ii) study diploma courses, hold honorary posts, gain success 
in research attempts, win things through greedy nature, 
have co-operation with societies, gain success in the 
agreements with societies, have fortunate opportunities, 
make achievements in research ventures, find out right 
ways and will be fond of taking nutritious foods. 


X House: Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Capricorn. 
So the Capricorn asc borns will work in the professional fields 
of social sector, labour contracts, and supervisory cadres. 


Libra is an airy sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will work in 
investigation departments or air force or air lines or radio. 


Libra is a movable sign. Profession, status and prestige of the 
Capricorn asc borns will always be in an upward trend. They 
may get higher posts one after another in their profession. 


Libra is a house of Venus. So the Capricorn asc borns will 
gain status in the fields of arts and culture, perform high ranking 
and luxurious professions, involve in the fields of music and 
dance as professionals and may deal with intoxicating goods. 


If the 10* house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Capricorn asc bors will serve in industries; handle fire in their 
profession, land, houses, police, military, administrative offices 
and as responsible officers. 


Mars is the lord of houses 4 & 11 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) be in manufacturing fields, involve in agriculture in grain 
fields, fruit gardens or farms, building contracts, 
carpentry, automobile repair and maintenance, cleanings 
of water tanks, electricity production, fertilizers and 
chemical manufacturing and will be in the fields of 
boilers and stores and godowns. 


(ii) serve in societies, enter into agreements on behalf of 
societies, involve in professions of their choice, have 
fortunate opportunities in professional fields, make 


Capricorn 321 


achievements in their profession and modernize their 
profession. 


If the 10" house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Capricorn asc borns will work in prisons, investigation 
departments, international centres of trade and banking and 
employment exchanges for foreign opportunities, deal in 
minerals and will become wardens, shoe makers, translators 
and pirates with the use of computers. 


(For the house significations of Rahu, please include the 
significations of Jupiter.) 


If the 10" house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Capricorn asc borns will be responsible officers in big 
organisations and volunteer in banking services, run children 
welfare organisations, hold honorary posts, work in gold mines 
and protect national properties and ancient monuments. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 3 & I2 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) get publicity as industrialists in press, work in the fields 
of information, communication, advertisements, 
agreements and lease, publish books and will be 
messengers, printers, brokers, writers, bill collectors, 
accountants, electrical workers, plumbers, assistants and 
sellers of goods. 


(ii) do business with the use of secret contacts; dual natured 
professions, incur and invest on profession, have secret 
affairs through new profession and will do research 
oriented professions. 


XI House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc borns will fulfil their desires 
only after struggles and through criminal means. 


Scorpio is a watery sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will have 
the tendency to assist others with happy mind by showing 
affinity. 


Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will have 
strong and permanent desires and expectations, long lasting 
happiness and surplus vitamin and will be blessed with sons-in- 
law or daughters- in-law. 


Scorpio is a house of Mars. So the Capricorn asc borns will 
have insincere friends or sons-in-law or daughters-in-law, 
become successful and fulfil their own desires only after 
struggles and show arrogance in fulfilling their desires. 


If the XI house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Capricorn asc borns will have sincere and generous friends 
or sons-in-law or daughters-in-law with great wisdom and 
foresight and will get fulfilled with their desires only through 
legal means. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 3 & 12 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) increase their strength, get positive press pubhcity, show 
interest in the fields of information and communication, 
write books, receive messages, audit accounts, increase 
the power of memory and enter into sales agreement. 


(ii) become happy after secret relations and contacts, invest 
in the fields of their choice, make achievements in 
research fields, have secretinterests through friends and 
reveal secrets. 


If the 1]™house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Capricorn asc boms will have lazy, undisciplined and 
dishonest friends, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law, purchase 
properties with litigations and get things done in untruthful ways 
and means. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 1 & 2 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) always think about them and remain selfish, proud, have 
independent thoughts and imagination, have new 
changes in their activities and excellent functiomng of 
the body. 


(ii) make profits through their pleasant speech, gain gold, 
valuables and costly articles as expected, gain profits 
from friends, sons-in-law or daughters-in law, use 
circumstances to their choices. 


If the 11 house falls in the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Capricorn asc borns will like micro instruments, will be 
able to read books of their choice and have witty friends, elder 
brothers, sons-in-law and daughters-in law. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 6 & 9 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc borns will, 


(i) become successful in their attempts, have diseases 
caused by vitamin deficiency, join in service of their 
choice, have opportunities and scope of success and will 
be able to diagnose diseases and by doing works of their 
interest. 


(ii) establish and maimtain contacts with social service 
centres or voluntary organisations, higher officials and 
foreign nations, will be polygamists, undertake foreign 
journeys of their choice, study courses of their choice 
and enter into agreements. 


XII House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the [X sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to 
Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc boms wil! not be able to regain 
stolen goods, outstanding money, gold and valuables and 
investments and will not hesitate to go for illegal activities and 
secret affairs. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign. So the Capricorn asc boms will 
have secret interests and will involve in sabotages and will 
become masochists. 


Sagittarius is a common sign. So the Capricorn asc borns will 
not carry on with their secret activities, making undue 
expenditures and extravagant investments and face temporary 
malfunctioning in the body to make them inactive. 


Sagittarius is a sign of Jupiter. So the Capricorn asc boms 


324 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


will face secret threatening and imprisonments by law, will be 
raided by income-tax authorities, face seizure of properties by 
government, undertake secret financial reviews and may involve 
in printing fake currency. 


If the 12* house falls in the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the 
Capricorn asc borns will have secret interests in illegal and 
subversive activities, will secretly take revenges and would carry 
on with secret plans. 


Ketu would act like Mercury which is the lord of houses 6 & 9 
to Capricorn. So the Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) have secret successes over enemies, fall unconscious 
due to food allergy, shift to jobs of their choice, suffer 
due to inability to identify diseases and could find scope 
for success only after making extravagant expenditures. 


(ii) incur expenditures for social service institutions, have 
illegal affairs, show secret involvements in public service 
organisations, secret multiple affairs, undergo foreign 
journeys, face troubles m higher education, undertake 
research education, enter into secret agreements and 
estabhsh secret contacts with foreign nations. 


If the 12" house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Capricorn asc borns will have secret activities through 
romance, have secret marriage, secret agreements with women 
and will hide and plan things. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 5 & 10 to Capricorn. So the 
Capricorn asc boms will, 


(i) face breaches in cordial relations and in agreements for 
peace, face troubles m mutual agreements, make 
expenditures in arts and culture and may have sexual 
pleasures with persons disliked by them. 


(ii) hold posts with secret responsibilities or with heavy 
work loads and with double-natured jobs. 


If the 12™ house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, 
the Capricorn asc borns will face seizures of properties by 


Capricorn 325 


government, face damages in properties, live in government 
buildings, have unauthorised possession of government 
documents, quit politics, will be punished by government such 
as framing of charge sheets with criminal charges, removal of 
encroachments or being hanged and meet with fire accidents. 


Sun is the lord of 8* house to Capricorn. So the Capricorn 
asc boms will face troubles in all their secret activities leading 
to undue expenditures, will face disrespect, will become 
unconscious, will face losses and may have to hastily leave their 
native places. 


525" Astrologics of kaalchakra 


11 


Aquarius 


General nature of the sign Aquarius 


It is a windy, fixed and masculine sign; single and lifeless sign; 
three-legged sign; dark green in colour; pot shaped and semi- 
fruitful sign; short ascension; denotes knees in body parts; sign 
of quick grasping, coward in nature, consistent efforts and lack 
of faith in others; main roads, hallways, pits, unequal places, 
hiding places, place of keeping radio, TV & refrigerator and 
sandy regions in places. XI sign of Zodiac. House of Saturn, 
north in direction, noon of a day, Maka in Saka or Masi in Tamil 
calendars. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF AQUARIUS 


(a) Itis a windy sign : Self-pride, sportive in nature and 
lack of needed seriousness, lean in structure, acting as 
if affectionate. 

(b) It is a fixed sign : Static mind, long standing beauty, 
consistent efforts, inflexible character. 


(c) It is a house of Saturn : Secret activities, masochists 
and research minded. 


(d) It is XI house of Kaalchakra: Proud, fond of happiness, 
joyful, friendly, encouraging and surplus of vitamins. 


In the same manner, the remaiming significations of Aquarius 
could also be studied. 


Aquartus "327 


The sign Aquarius extends over three stars leading to the 
following body natures. 


1. Dhanishta: Owned by Mars : Fleshy body with 
excessive heat in the body 


2. Shathabisham: Owned by Rahu; Plump body. 
3. Poorvabadra: Owned by Jupiter: Fatty and stout body. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, the 
Aquarius asc borns will be bold and courageous in actions, 
short-tempered, have long-lasting anger, will not respect and 
listen to others, selfish, have excessive prevalence of heat in 
their body, arrogant in appearance with self-pride, indiscipline 
and violent by nature, and Will remain inflexible. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 3 & 10 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(i) have intelligence, self-confidence, self-efforts, mental 
courage, inclination towards studies, interest in all fields, 
self-changing and adaptability, capacity to act and 
communicative by nature. 


(ii) have unsatisfied mind, status , prestige, leadership, name 
and fame, counselling and_ responsibilities, 
administrative capacity and honours. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, the 
Aquarius asc borns will have great and big ideas and thoughts, 
undue growths in the body, problems in respiratory system, fond 
of food and addictions to intoxicants. 


Rahu will carry significations similar to that of Jupiter. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, the 
Aquarius asc borns will be honest, sincere, soft-natured, calm, 
adaptable, flexible, self-confident persons with seli-thoughts and 
with due honours. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 2 & 11 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


328 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


(i) have the skills of expression, increasing activities, 
digestive capacity and truthful m nature. 


(ii) be greedy, selfish but joyful, counsellor of societies; have 
desires and fortunes, will be successful and would make 
achievements and will remain happy and flexible with 
others. 


II House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will speak mostly about secrets, 
expenditures and investments. 


Pisces is a watery sign. So the Aquarius asc bors will lack 
clarity in their speech though they are capable of speaking about 
wisdom and Moksha, the eternal world of almighty. 


Since Pisces is a common house, speech, power of eyes, 
digestive capacity, gold, valuables, costly articles and documents 
will not remain long and would see fluctuations for the Aquarius 
borns. 


Since Pisces is a house of Jupiter, the Aquarius asc boms will 
be explicit in their desires in their speech. 


III House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the III house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will lead in all walks of life and will 
show self-pride. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the Aquarius asc boms will be 
courageous, self-confident and arrogant. 


Aries is a movable sign. Courage, self-confidence, intelligence, 
activities, functioning of sensory organs and blood vessels, 
ability to communicate, mind to change places will have growing 
in nature. 


Aries is a house of Mars; so the Aquarius asc borns will have 
increased courage and confidence, involve in document 
cheatings, enter into unfair agreements with impractical terms 
and conditions. They will be aggressively intelligent. 


Aqmarnas SS SS SS SS ~ 396 


IV House: Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc borns will gain eloquence through 
education. They will study finance related courses. 


Taurus is an earthy sign. So the Aquarius asc boms will be 
simple without pride though they are well educated. 


Taurus is a fixed sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will show 
steady progress in their financial hfe. They may study agriculture 
courses. 


Taurus is a house of Venus. So the Aquarius asc borns may 
study automobile engineering and may face hurdles in their 
education. 


V House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will think differently in the fields of 
arts and culture. They will have artistic talents as writers. 


Gemini is a windy sign. So the Aquarius asc boms will have 
research mind in the fields of arts and culture and they will 
have needed interest. 


Gemini is a common sign. So the interests of Aquarius asc 
boms in the fields of arts and culture would face fluctuations. 


Gemini is a house of Mercury. So the Aquarius asc boms will 
face disrespects in the fields of arts and culture and will be 
interested in multiple fields of arts and culture. 


VI House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will have diseases in the chest and 
in lungs. They will gain success in their life with the confidence 
gained from their academic qualifications. 


Cancer is a watery sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will suffer 
due to water-borne diseases and will gain success with self- 
pride. 


330 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Cancer is a movable sign. So the diseases and litigations of the 
Aquarius asc borus will soon be over. 


Since it is a house of Moon, the Aquarius asc boms will face 
litigations in lands, vehicles and properties and will have increase 
in body weight. 


VII House: Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Aquarius. So 
the Aquarius asc borns will meet artists and persons with self- 
pride. 


Since Leo is a fiery sign, the Aquarius asc borns will often 
disagree with their opponents and will enter into egoistic 
arguments. 


Leo is a fixed sign. So the Aquarius ase borns will have long 
lasting social relationships. Since it is a house of Sun, the 
Aquarius asc borns will often meet persons with steady and 
stable minds and links with government. 


VI111 House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI house to Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc borns will face disrespect through 
borrowings, litigations. service, foods and diseases. 


Virgo is an earthy sign. So the lives of Aquarius asc borns will 
be endangered due to nafural calamities. 


Virgo is a common sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will face 
same problems repeatedly and suffer troubles both physically 
and mentally. 


Virgo is a sign of Mercury. So the Aquarius asc borns will 
face disrespect due to uncles and suffer due to neurological 
disorders. 


IX House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the |X house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc borns will academically excel in social 
and legal or public relations. 


Aquarius 331 


Libra is a windy sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will have a 
research mind about society. 


Libra is a movable sign. So the educational qualifications, 
research mind and intention to undertake foreign journeys of 
the Aquarius asc borns will show growing natures. 


Libra is a sign of Venus. So the Aquarius asc borns will have 
research education, will have links with education centres, will 
be talented in education and would become as counsellors or 
lawyers. 


X House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc borns will spoil their reputation and respect 
in their profession. They would opt for illegal means and 
substandard ways in their profession. 


Since Scorpio is a watery sign, the Aquarius asc borns will 
behave improperly by using their name, status and authority. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So the authority and status of the 
Aquarius asc borns will remain stable. 


Since Scorpio is a house of Mars, the Aquarius asc borns will 
forcibly earn reputation, authority and respect with the assistance 
of others. 


XI House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the |X sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to 
Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc borns will have illegal affairs 
with the persons of their choice. They will fulfil their desires 
through illegal means and persons of their choice. 


Sagittarius, is a fiery sign. So the Aquarius asc borns would 
be able to fulfil their desires only after struggles. 


Sagittarius is acommon sign. So the Aquarius asc borns woul 
face fluctuations in their desires and expectations. 


Sagittarius ia a sign of Jupiter. So the Aquarius asc borns 
will greedily run after money. 


332 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


XII House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to 
Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc borns will have secret 
professional activities and will do hoarding. 


Capricorn is an earthy sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will 
opt for secret activities in the name of their affinity. 


Capricorn is a movable sign. So they will have a mind to incur 
undue expenditures for the cause of their profession. 


Capricorn is a house of Saturn. So the Aquarius asc borns 
may at times have to abscond due to their secret activities. 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF AQUARIUS UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT 


II House : Pisces 


Pisces, the XII sign of Kaalchakra is the {] house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc borns will soon spend their income. They 
may have to pay dearly for their loose talks. They tend to keep 
their money secretly. 


Pisces is a watery sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will not be 
clear in their conversations but will show their wisdom and 
knowledge through their speech. 


Pisces is a common sign. So their speech and words, eye power, 
digestive capacity, possession of gold, valuables, costly articles 
and documents would not remain stable and will face 
fluctuations. 


Pisces is a house of Jupiter. So the Aquarius asc borns may 
.earn money through truth and respect in their speech, through 
teaching or in banking, jewellery shops, mortgage shops or 
through treasury. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Aquarius asc borns may earn money through truth and 
respect in their speech, through teaching or in banking, jewellery 
shops, mortgage shops or through treasury. 


Aquarius ~ — "333 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 2 & 11 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc borns will, 


(i) have eloquence, speak truths, increase their activities 
by way of money and have the capacity to digest 
anything. 


(ii) gain profits out of their greediness, in easy means and 
happy ways, through romance, through societies, from 
interested fields, by fortune and success, by making 
achievements, by entertaining others ‘and by co- 
operating with friends. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, 
the Aquarius asc boms will be misers, belong to small income 
gioup, talk slowly, tend to lie, hold costly articles in their 
possession and will tend to seize goods of others. 


Saturn is the lord of houses 1 & 12 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(i) capitalize their thoughts, have mind to make money, 
quick reflexes in the body, become more active, have 
independent sources of income, express their thoughts 
and like to show their strength through money. 


(ii) gain profits from secret activities, from savings and 
money lending, from secret plans and from treasures 
and will be able to regain lost goods. 


If the 2nd house falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, 
the Aquarius asc boms will gain income through greenish 
articles, costly and micro instruments, cheques, negotiable 
instruments, witty speech, rendering commentaries and skills 
of eloquence or mimicry. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 5 & 8 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(i) gain from costly shares, by performing religious services 
or rituals, through deep thoughts, imagination and 
intelligence, love affairs, in the fields of arts, culture 


353" Astrologics of kaalchakra 


and sports and in maintaining auditoriums and from self- 
beauty and prostitutions; 


(ii) gain monetary income by thefts, robbery, harassments, 
magic, wills, forgery, raping, murders, threatening, 
bribery, cheating and through alli kinds of illegal 
activities; by serving in dirty places, accident wards, 
mortuary and insurance offices. 


III House : Aries 


Aries, the first sign of Kaalchakra is the III house to Aquarius. 

So the Aquarius asc boms wil] excel in the fields of information 

and communication; progress through journeys and agreements; 
may get depressed in their achievements. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the Aquarius ase borns will be 
courageous, confident, bold but arrogant. 


Aries is a movable sign; the confidence, courage, functioning 
of the body, especially the neural senses and blood vessels, skills 
of communication and writings, movement of properties and 
the intelligence of the Aquarius asc boms will always carry 
improvements and progress. 


Aries is a house of Mars. So the Aquarius asc boms will go on 
building their courage and confidence; spread rumours and forge 
documents; enter into unethical agreements with undue clauses; 
have knowledge with arrogance. 


If the 3:4 house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 
Aquartus asc borns will forge documents and cheques, spread 
rumours, provide misinformation, face criminal charges and 
write anonymous letters. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 5 & 8 to 
Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc boms will, 


(i) intelligently deal in company shares, holy books, sports, 
politics, romance, writing of stories, poems and articles, 
preaching of religious values, paintings, glamourous or 
obscene dances. 


Aquarius 335 


(ii) seize properties by using force and cheatings, steal 
documents and notes, sell old goods, write obscene 
letters, threaten, have mental depression, serve as clerks 
in accident wards or mortuary, act as agents for bribery, 
spread illegal information, have unauthorised possession 
of documents and deal in insurance policies. 


If the 3rd house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Aquarius asc boms will have happy and joyful information, 
communications, agreements and agency; write stories, songs 
and articles, write with pure imagination, will become editors 
or script and dialogue writers in cinema field. 


Venus is the lord of houses 4 & 9 to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
asc boms will, 


(i) lose physical energy, get certified in education, deal in 
the business of fruits, vegetables, grains, seeds, nurseries, 
stationeries, school books, notes, news papers and 
journals, vessels, utensils, furniture, groceries, hardware, 
lands, houses buildings and livestock. 


(ii) enter into reliable and honest agreements, have name 
and fame, exchange money, get certified for higher 
education, enter into agreements for research, send 
messages, face monitoring on their religious activities, 
negotiate for endowments, transplant organs, have 
international communication and relations, file sales- 
tax accounts, serve as clerks in law departments, 
mediators and provide information about ancient 
monuments, 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Aquarius asc boms will deal with government documents, 
information and communication departments of the nation and 
will become responsible for statistics and government 
documents. 


Sun is the lord of 7m house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc 
borns will get due social recognition, have legally valid 
government documents, get recommendation letters, enter into 


336 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


partnership agreements, issue notices to collect taxes, correspond 
with banks and may have to communicate for life partners. 


IV House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will gain income from house, lands, 
vehicles, machinery and properties; hve in apartments; live in a 
main road and in the central part of a street. Mostly their entrance 
may face western direction in a north-south facing street. 


Since Taurus is an earthy sign, the Aquarius asc boms would 
be blessed with deep knowledge and would be interested in 
agriculture. They may keep pet animals in their houses. 


Taurus is a fixed sign. So the productive organs of the body, 
education, house, lands and vehicles, machineries and 
belongings of the Aquarius asc borns will stay permanent. 


Taurus is a sign of Venus. So the Aquarius asc borns may live 
in bungalows or palaces; own flower or vegetable gardens at 
home, produce cosmetics, deal m glassware, plastics and films 
and may run schools for arts and culture or driving schools. 


If the 4t house falls in the star Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Aquarius asc borns may lve in government quarters, work in 
government buildings, encroach village common lands, get 
government pattas, handle government machineries or vehicles, 
hve near education centres or colleges, own agricultural lands, 
wells, ponds, water tanks, grain godowns and may serve in 
departments of vehicles or housing. 


Sun is also the lord of 7th house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
asc borns will become members of social clubs, live in 
government quarters, will receive lands donated by the 
government, purchase properties by availing bank loans, become 
members of ration cards and live in a joint family. 


If the 4 th house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Aquarius asc borns will own water reservoirs, agricultural lands, 
boats, bridges, water-vehicles, wells or ponds, will be able to 
save rain water, get surplus groundwater, will be fond of taking 


Aquarius 337 


fruits and vegetables with excessive water content and undertake 
educational trainings. 


Moon is the lord of 6th house to Aquartus. So the Aquarius 
asc boms will run centres for competitive exams, medical camps 
or laboratories, prepare food, become tailors, milkmen, 
accountants, money lenders against properties, live in rented 
houses, work in purchase departments or lodges, produce 
medicines or medical equipments and may treat their servant as 
one among the family. 


If the 4* house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Aquartus asc boms may be arrogant during their academic 
studies, show arrogance im acquiring lands or houses or vehicles, 
become landlords, own agricultural farms, have machinery to 
produce chemicals and fertilizers and serve in big industries. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 3 & 10 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(t) get publicity about their transfers and places of postings, 
publish books on general knowledge, serve in 
manufacturing fields, leave their native places, show 
intelligence in studies, have confidence in increasing 
production, get stayed with their transfer orders and get 
needed technical information for production. 


(ii) become landlords or industrialists, hold honorary or 
responsible posts, have admimistrative capacity, gain 
name and fame and will become responsible for 
government documents. 


V House : Gemini 


Gemini, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Aquartus. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will write more and more letters in 
their love affairs, have satisfaction in love affairs and in 
devotional services, will be blessed with an intelligent first child, 
excel in writing stories and articles and do things for self- 
publicity. 


Gemini is an airy sign. The Aquarius asc boms may like sports 


3 ~~ Astrologics of kaalchakra 


and games, may become comedians, story-writers and puzzle- 
masters. 


Gemini is a common sign. Blood cell count, knowledge, interest 
in the fields of arts and culture, life of children, love affairs and 
faith in god of the Aquarius asc borns may have to face many 
fluctuations. 


Gemini is a sign of Mercury. So the Aquarius asc borns would 
mostly become singers, comedians, debaters, orators, teachers 
and masters of arts, crafts, painters, sculptors, priests, music 
instrumentalists and commission agents. 


If the 5th house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Aquarius asc borns will show arrogance during copulations, 
have children with excessive interest in sexual pleasures, will 
become atheists, sculptors, painters, obscene dancers, singers 
or boxers. 


Mars is the lord of houses 3 & 10 to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
asc borns will, 


(i) get press publicity for writing skills, publish books on 
arts and advertisements, perform artistically, enter into 
agreements for artistic performances and gain changes 
in their transfer orders. 


(ii) will hold honorary post as the best artist, produce artistic 
goods, will have unusual ideas about their professions, 
earn name and fame in their professional fields, become 
astrologers and will have artistic and administrative 
capacity. 

If the 5 house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Aquarius asc borns will have sexual relations with foreigners, 
will do prostitution in foreign countries, serve in liquor bars, 
perform obscene dances, gamble and will be swimmers or 
sprinters. 


(Rahu would act like Jupiter as far as house significations are 
concerned.) 


Aquarius oe 339 


If the 5" house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Aquartus asc borns will have religious contacts; have faith 
in god and children; show sincerity in love affairs, perform 
religious rituals, become priests, religious leaders, religious 
service volunteers and show power of intuition in arts. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 2 & 11 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc borns will, 


(i) be fond of purchasing artistic goods, useful musical 
instruments, musical records, artistically rare and costly 
goods and learn arts without any meaning or purpose. 


(ii) learn arts with commitment, organize lodging homes 
and branches of societies; make love with women of 
their choice; enjoy fortunate agreements and 
Opportunities; remain happy with friends, make 
achievements in production of hvestock. 


VI House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms may serve and will have to face 
litigations in their lands, vehicles, machinery, education and in 
production processes. 


Cancer is a watery sign leading to troubles and diseases in and 
caused by water or liquids for the Aquarius asc boms. 


Cancer is a movable sign. So the Aquarius asc boms may serve 
for long; suffer due to increase in diseases especially in digestive 
organs; their court cases would get prolonged and loans tend to 
increase further and further. They may suffer due to frequent 
changes in the nature of their diseases and will! be gluttons or 
will have to take medicines endlessly. 


Cancer is a house of Moon. So the Aquarius asc bors will 
mostly serve in water reservoirs, ships, fisheries or plumbing 
works or in grain fields; suffer due to diseases caused by water. 


If the 6 house falls in the star of Punarvasu ruled by Jupiter, the 
Aquartus asc borns will serve in huge organizations, banks, medical 
or legal departments; acquire loans with assistance from popular 


340 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


persons, will be fond of taking fatty food and nutrition tablets, suffer 
from diseases caused in blood cells and will preside over functions 
and feasts. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 2 & 11 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquartus asc borns will, 


(i) have successful and profitable speech, good digestive 
capacity, acquire gold and costly articles as loans, keep 
things by acquiring loans and render excessive labour 
or service. 


(ii) win only after protracted struggles, live in lodges, serve 
in societies, win court cases against societies, employ 
servants of their own choice, get fortunate opportunities 
or employment, make achievements in their labour, will 
be able to diagnose diseases and consume food items of 
their choice. 


If the 6" house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, the 
Aquarius asc borns will undertake labourious jobs; work for 
low wages in hotels, law offices, tailoring shops and medical 
shops; suffer due to skin diseases and get loans in small amounts. 


Saturn is the ruler of houses I & 12 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc borns will, 


(i) become unconscious or mactive due to diseases, suffer 
from generation of new diseases; diseases in stomach, 
intestines and neurological system, lack of immunity, 
lack of self-thoughts and independent activities; have 
successful activities and develop their skill of labour. 


(ii) acquire loans through secret plans, clear debts by 
acquiring further loans, regain what was lost, liquidate 
investments, undertake medical treatments in hospitals, 
face litigations filed by separated member of the family, 
have break-even of accounts and will become inactive 
due to ill health. 


If the 6" house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Aquarius asc borns will become accountants, labour 
contractors, tax-collectors, printers, computer operators, 


Aquarius SAT 


neurologists, nurses, compounders and office clerks, serve in 
commercial places and will give and collect loans in instalments. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 5 & 8 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boras will, 


(i) serve as share brokers, priests or in sports centres, 
auditoriums, marriage registration offices, prostitution 
dens, liquor bars and in places of religious rituals; 
manufacturers of sports goods or pimps or proof readers 
of stories, articles and poems. 


(ii) render hard labour, have to do jobs of no respect and 
without any benefits for labour; repair old goods and 
undertake jobs in severe working conditions and at dirty 
places with heavy work load. 


VII House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Aquarius. So 
the life/business partners of Aquarius asc borns will be 
dominating in nature with more interest tn the fields of arts and 
culture. 


Leo is a fiery sign. So the lfe/business partners of Aquarius 
asc boms may be less disciplined. 


Leo is a fixed sign. So the relationships with life/business 
partners/customers of Aquarius asc boms will remain long. They 
will have proper functioning of kidneys and will have a high 
sense of touching. 


Leo is a sign of Sun. So the Aquarius asc borns may deal with 
public works and welfare departments. Their life/business 
partners will show pride and authority. The Aquarius bom may 
often have to meet with dominant and arrogant people. 


If the 7th house falls in the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
life/business partners of Aquarius asc borns will be cunning 
and revengeful; the Aquarius asc boms may often have to deal 
with criminals and cunning people. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, which is the lord of houses 5 & 
8 to Aquarius, So the Aquarius asc borns will, 


342 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) often have to deal with lovers, artists, painters, singers, 
astrologers, teachers, religious servants, priests, pimps, 
prostitutes and saints. 


(ii) often have to deal with criminals, opponents, murderers, 
thieves and insurance officials; brokers of bribery, 
terrorists, cunning people, traitors and people who 
disrespect the Aquarius asc boms. 


If the 7th house falls in the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by Venus, 
the Aquarius asc boms will have glamourous life partners and 
will often meet with happy and joyful persons or women. 


Venus is the lord of houses 4 & 9 to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
asc boms will, 


(i) often meet with relatives, residents of same compound 
especially the opposite houses and the persons who 
maintain their lands and buildings. 


(ii) often meet and deal with foreigners, leaders, exporters, 
judges, priests, trustees and teachers. 


If the 7 house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Aquarius asc borns may deal with public works and welfare 
departments. Most often, they have to meet with dominant and 
arrogant people. Life/business partners will show self-pride and 
authority. 


Sun is the lord of 7th house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc 
boms will often meet with foreign dignitaries, social servants, 
agents for government servants, marriage brokers, public 
welfare officers and business customers. 


VIII House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Zodiac, is the VIII house to Aquarius. So 

the Aquarius asc boms will face disrespect by way of litigations, 
loans, diseases and service in the fields of food, dress and 

medicines. 


Virgo is an earthy sign. So the Aquarius asc boms will face 
problems due to natural calamities like thunders and cyclone 
etc and will face dejections in family life caused by relatives. 


Aquarius = —s—“‘“‘i™SCOCO~*~*~™ ~ 343 


Virgo is a common sign. So the life of Aquartus asc boms will 
see fluctuations. Dangers like accidents, pains, stress, disrespect, 
loss of name and fame and sorrows of the Aquartus boms will 
not last long. 


Virgo is a house of Mercury, So the Aquarius asc boms will 
face problems by way of cheques and documents, disconnection 
of electricity and telephone; misinformation, surety signatures, 
anonymous letters, loss of memory and due to neural disorders. 


If the 8 house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Aquarius asc boms will face seizure of their properties by 
govemment, cause for loss or damages to government properties, 
steal government documents, quit politics, get punished for 
criminal charges, remove encroachments on behalf of 
government and may meet with fire accidents. 


Sun is the lord of 7in house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc 
borns will behave indecently in social service centres, increase 
enmity towards government officials, corrupt in public service, 
face dejections in married life, will be cheated by partners and 
face disrespect and threatening on their hves. 


Ifthe 8th house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Aquarius asc boms will suffer due to mental dejections and loss 
of memory; become unconscious; lack in educational qualifications, 
face troubles in water and dehydration and carry subversive 
thoughts. 


Moon is the lord of 6m house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc 
boms will face troubles in competitive exam centres; suffer due 
to increase in diseases resulted by side effects of medicines, 
negligence of nurses, allergy caused by dresses or food, meet 
with accidents in manufacturing of medicines, do illegal 
activities in medical departments, face allegations in lodges and 
enter into quarrels inside court premises. 


If the 8h house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Aquarius asc boms will meet with all kinds of illegal, subversive 
and violent activities such as quarrels, wars, riots, straggles, 
terrorism, seizures, false allegations, police and military actions, 


344 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


assault by weapons, bombings, rapes, murders, robbery, forgery, 
cheatings and suicide attempts. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 3 & 10 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(i) get notorious press publicity, publish books on 
criminology, spread rumours, commit mistakes in 
mathematics due to loss of memory, misplace 
belongings, face deterioration of body organs, face 
breach of agreement on employment, troubles in 
appointment orders, get black-mark in service, face 
troubles in mcreasing productivity in service, face 
troubles as clerks in communication and tenders. 


(ii) face allegations in the substantiation process of 
employment, corrupt in high posts, commit forgery in 
administrative capacity, lose name, fame and honour 
and face hurdles in promotion processes. 


IX House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will indulge in illegal activities in 
business, social service centres and may have illegal affairs with 
partners or foreigners. 


Libra is an airy sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will have 
research capacity and excel in higher education and may become 
professors and teachers. Since Libra is also a movable sign, the 
Aquarius asc borns will excel in their higher education, 
undertake frequent foreign journeys, become polygamists and 
will increase their credibility. 


Libra is a house of Venus. So the Aquarius asc boms will 
research in the fields of arts and culture, have higher education, 
work in transport organisations, make arrangements in feast halls 
and have affinity towards women especially foreigners. 


If the 9 house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Aquarius asc boms will study agriculture, geology, mechanical 
engineering, history or archaeology, become politicians, head 


SO — "345 


masters, transport organizers, judges, criminal lawyers and 
zamindars. 


Mars is the lord of houses 3 & 10to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
asc boms will, 


(i) think beyond their capacity, get press publicity about 
happy occasions, deal in information and 
communication, will become educationists, mediators, 
messengers and mathematicians, exchange properties 
and have increased power of memory. 


(ii) serve in transport departments, involve in 
communication and information departments, 
international trade, electricity, plumbing, oil wells, 
mines endowments, government temples, tax collection 
authorities, temple trusts, courts, panchayat boards and 
ancient monuments. 


If the 9* house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Aquarius asc boms will become researchers of addictions, 
transplant surgeons, artificial organ specialists and teachers of 
foreign languages and involve in religious research centres, 
international cultural centres and international grain godowns, 


(Rahu will act like Jupiter in respect of house significations.) 


If the 9tn house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 

the Aquarius asc borns will have higher education in the field 

of teaching, act as financial controller of the nation, have wisdom 
and knowledge, transform the structure and rituals of religion, 

law & discipline of the country, undertake religious rituals & 

service, become trustees of temples, ambassadors of the country 
and exporters. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 2 & 11 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(} negotiate peacefully and amicably, acquire ancestral 
properties as gold and valuables, get money and a variety 
of articles as donations. 


(ii) study diploma courses, hold honorary posts, gain name, 


346 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


fame, success and achievements in their research 
attempts, remain joyful and happy, have co-operation 
in unions, successful agreements with societies, 
fortunate opportunities of agreements; will find out right 
methods and like to take fatty foods. 


X House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaakchakra is the X house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc borns will work in the fields of operation 
theatres, sanitary & toilets, wastes, prostitution, treatments of 
venereal diseases and in a few illegal professions. 


Scorpio is a watery sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will work 
in the fields of agriculture, ports, bridges and water reservoirs. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So the Aquarius asc boms will get 
permanent status; their profession, prestige and postings would 
last long. 


Scorpio is a house of Mars. So the Aquarius asc boms will 
work as responsible executives m huge mdustries, fire related 
professions, housing, lands, police, military and for government 
documents. 

If the 10 house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Aquarius asc borns will become responsible officers or by 
holding honorary posts m huge mdustries, banks, children's' 
welfare societies, currency divisions, gold mines, protection of 
ancient monuments and national properties. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses 2 & 11 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 

(i) work in those professions wherein speech is required, 
deal in fields of ancestral golden ornaments, costly 
articles and fmance and will do everything as 
professional. 

(ii) work in societies, work for agreements of societies, work 
in the fields of their choice, avail fortunate employment 
opportunities and employment contracts make 


Aquarius 347 


achievements in their profession and would improve 
their professional fields. 


If the 10 house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Aquarius asc bors will come up in life from lower cadre, 
work as office assistants especially in the fields of police, military 
or corporations, respect people irrespective of their status and 
sell old and obsolete goods. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 1 & 12 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc borns will, 


(ij) work in the fields wherein self thoughts are required 
more, more active with enthusiasm, become 
industrialists, perform acts of honour, suffer due to 
allergy from a specific set of foods, have independent 
approach in their professional field and make needed 
changes in their professional capacity. 


(ti) do business with secret likes and hidden things, involve 
in dual profession, make extravagant expenditure on 
their profession, invest in profession, have secret 
interests through new profession and take up research- 
oriented jobs. 


If the 10 house falls m the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Aquarius asc borns will do business and deal im the fields 
of micro instruments, scales and metres, mercury, pipes and 
rods, wires, greenish articles, stationeries and notebooks, 
calculators and computers. 


Mercury is the lord of houses 5 & 8 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(i) perform religious rituals especially during deaths and 
funerals, arrange for pleasure trips, render religious 
services, foretell the future and become religious 
preachers, pimps, painters, actors, singers, poets, 
astrologers and music artists, producer's of vitamin 
syrups and nursing maids of child-births. 


(ii) do criminal activities in profession, sell or modify old 
goods; involve in rape, stealing or murder. 


348 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


XI House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the IX house of Kaalchakra is the XI house to 
Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc borns will fulfil their desires 
through illegal means and wit over others by inducing them to 
have illegal affairs. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sigu. So the Aquarius asc borns will have 
friends who are arrogant, greedy and carry self pride. 


Sagittarius is a common sigu. So the Aquarius asc boms will 
have fluctuations m their happiness, expectations and desires; 
relationships with their sous-in-law and daughters-iu-law will 
see fluctuations. 


Sagittarius is a house of Jupiter. So the Aquarius asc borns 
will have sincere, truthful and generous friends, sous-in-law and 
daughters-in-law; will get things doue thru legal means and will 
expect things to be doue ouly through legal ways. 


If the 11" house falls im the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the 
Aquarius asc borns will fulfil their desires through illegal means, 
expect things and have cunning natured friends and in-laws. 


Ketu would act like Mercury in house significatious. Mercury is 
the lord of houses 5 & 8 to Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc borns 
will, 


(i) have happy relations, will be mterested m the field of 
arts, have sexual affairs with persous of their choice and 
will enter mto mutual agreements. 


(i) face troubles in fulfilling their desires, become hasty 
and tensed, suffer due to deficiency of vitamin, 
dissatisfactions and lack of mental stability. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Veuus, 
the Aquarius asc borns will often meet with happy and joyful 
people, happy friends, in-laws and elder brother and will always 
expect happy things. 


Veuus is also the lord of houses 4 & 9 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


Aquarius 349 


(i) buy desired things, own properties with htigations; have 
frequent repairs in vehicles and lose their belongings. 


(ii) have contacts with social service centres and higher 
officials, will be polygamists, render voluntary service 
in social organisations, undertake foreign journey of their 
choice, study courses of their choice, involve in research 
and have international relationships and agreements. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, the 
Aquarius asc boms will have links with political leaderships, 
government societies, friendship clubs, government festivals and 
feasts, guest houses, co-operative centres, government medals, 
mementos, monuments, subsidies and assistance to fulfil their own 
desires, 


Sun is alsg the lord of VII house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius asc 
boms will choose their life partners by choice, maintain affinity 
towards others and society and often meet people whom they love 
most. 


XII House : Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Aquarius. 
So the Aquarius asc boms will make extravagant expenditures in 
their profession by increasing their investments; involve in 
subversive activities, adulteration and all kinds of illegal activities 
in their profession. 


Capricorn is an earthy sign. So the Aquarius asc boms will 
involve in the fields of medicines, dresses, food items and 
vegetables and agriculture. (probably as a second profession.) 


Capricorn is a movable sign. So the Aquarius asc borns will 
go on increasing their secret activities, expenditures and 
investments and soon lose their physical energy and movements. 


Capricorn is a sign of Saturn. So the Aquarius asc borns will 
secretly be vengeful against their opponents, hoard and hide things, 
make secret plans and will involve in all kinds of secret and indecent 
acts. 


If the [2 house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, 


350 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


the Aquarius asc borns will work m the departments of 
investigation, customs, sales-tax, auditing, jails, post-mortem 
in government hospitals, seizure of encroachments, secret 
agencies of government and will hide and hoard things. 


Sun is also the lord of 7th house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
asc borns will choose foreign citizens as life partners, hve away 
from society and especially from opposite sex and hate others 
and society. 


If the 12" house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, the 
Aquarius asc borns will be quick; make hasty investments, 
undertake voyages and sea journeys; hoard liquid articles and enjoy 
bed comforts. 


Moon is the lord of 6th house to Aquarius. So the Aquarius 
asc borns will gain secret successes, fall unconscious due to 
food allergy, change jobs of their choice, will be unable to 
diagnose diseases, get separated from their servants and gain 
favourable scope for success after making undue expenditures. 


If the 12 house falls in the star of Dhantshta, ruled by Mars, 
the Aquarius asc boras will involve in illegal and unethical 
acts, smugglings, adulterations, hoardings, secret activities, 
operation theatres, prostitution dens, lodges and investigations. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 3 & 10 to Aquarius. So the 
Aquarius asc boms will, 


(i) lose their physical energy, will have notorious press 
publicity, face breach of agreements, face troubles in 
communications, sell books, commit mistakes in 
accounts and face loss of inemory. 


(ii) hold responsible secret posts, jobs with heavy work load 
and undertake dual natured jobs. 


Besides the above, the residential positions of planets could also 
be included for study of detailed significations of the respective 
houses. 


Aquarius 351 


12 


Pisces 


General nature of the sign Pisces 


It is a watery, common and feminine sign; double-fish in shape; 
even sign; grey in colour; fruitful sign; short ascension; live 
sign; generous, obedient, calm and intelligent in nature; improve 
and develop things; ocean, sea, fish ponds, clay pits, oil fields, 
salt-beds, ports, jails, tanneries, XII sign of Zodiac, house of 
Jupiter, north-east in direction, night times, Palghuna in Saka 
or Panguni in Tamil calendars. 


ASCENDANT RELATED SIGNIFICATIONS OF PISCES 


(a) It is a watery sign : Soft and calm in appearance and 
speech, God-fearing, detached mind, stout body, implicit 
and unexpressive by nature. 


(b) It is a common sign :Anger, activeness and talents wil! 
not last long. colour, beauty and structure will disappear 
shortly; mood and mind would frequently change. 


(c) It is a house of Jupiter : Honest and sincere self- 
thoughts, obedient, calm, prestigious, self-confident, 
intelligent, flexible and adaptable by nature. 


(d) It is the XH House of Kaalchakra : Secret activities, 
investigation, research-oriented, life at foreign countries, 
absconding and doubtful. 


In the same manner, the remaining significations of Pisces could 
also be studied. 


352 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


The sign Pisces extends over three stars leading to the following 
body natures. 


L Poorvabadra: Owned by Jupiter: Plump body. 
2. Uttarabadra: Owned by Saturn: Rough skins. 
5. Revathi: Owned by Mercury: Lean body. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, the 
Pisces asc boms will be honest and sincere in thoughts, obedient, 
calm, prestige-conscious, self-confident, intelligent, flexible and 
adaptable. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 1 & 10 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc borns will, 


(i) have self-thoughts and independent actions, active and 
quick in actions, like to exhibit strength and like to do 
things of their own choice. 


(ii) gain status, prestige with name and fame, leadership 
qualities; hold honorary posts and will be responsible 
counsellors with administrative capacity. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Uttarabadra, ruled by Saturn, the 
Pisces asc boms will be lazy and doubtful with dissatisfactions; 
pessimistic with inferiority complex; have research capacity and 
take decisions only after coming to a clear mind. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 11 & 12 to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc boms will, 


(i) be selfish and greedy by nature, happy and joyful; 
counsellors for societies have fortunate opportunities 
for success and achievements and will be flexible with 
others. 


(ii) have secret activities, lose energy, abscond, sacrifice or 
investigate, face secret disturbances and often face 
defeats and difficulties. 


If the Asc falls in the star of Revathi, ruled by Mercury, the 
Pisces asc boms will be intelligent, witty and flexible in nature, 
have the capability to make quick estimation about sitnations; 
Pisce — = SS I ee a5 


lean and beautiful in structure, have excellent neural system 
with mental fluctuations and oscillations; mathematical brain, 
think twice before acting and will be cunming at times. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc boms will, 


(i) have manufacturing capacity; fond of education, 
cultivate fruits and vegetables in farms, become founders 
of educational centres or hbraries and may own ponds 
and water reservoirs. 


(ii) have cordial social relations and get due social 
recognition and depend on relatives. 


II House : Aries 


Aries, the I sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc boms will be dominating and arrogant in their speech 
and often find faults with others: establish their side in words 
and try to destabilize others through their speech. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the Pisces asc boras are fiery in their 
speech with arrogance and will hurt the feelings of others in 
their speech. 


Aries is a movable sign; so the eyesight, speech, digestive 
capacity of the Pisces asc boras will go on improving by nature. 


Since Aries is a house of Mars, the Pisces asc borns will show 
their generosity in the fields of religion and education in words. 
Their benevolence will be limited only in words. 


III House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the III house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc borns will be money-minded. They would tend 
to be in the forefront with the use of financial means. 


Taurus is an earthy sign. So the Pisces asc boras are mostly 
cowards; they are only courageous and confident like saints and 
at times are insensible. 


Taurus is a fixed sign. So confidence, courage, functioning of 


354 ~ Astrologics of kaalchakra 


neural system especially blood vessels and sensory organs, 
ability to communicate, transfer of places, actions and 
intelligence of the Pisces asc borns would mostly remain 
permanent. 


Taurus is a sign of Venus. So the Pisces asc boras will face 
disrespects and damages caused by women and will be dejected 
in all walks of their life. 


IV House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc boras will lack inclmation towards education and 
will tend to shift places often. 


Gemini is an airy sign. So the Pisces asc boras will tend to 
show themselves as educated and well-versed persons. 


Gemini is a common sign; So the Pisces asc boras may face 
frequent troubles in their academic career. They may study 
information and communication oriented courses. 


Gemini is a house of Mercury. So the Pisces asc boms will 
gain knowledge through experience and will undergo studies 
with the assistance of relatives. 


V House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc boms may like +o produce artistic goods and 
decorative materials and make films with pure mmagmation. 


Cancer is a watery sign. So the Pisces asc boms may get 
dissatisfied in the fields of arts, religion, culture and literature 
and with their children. They may not be successful in their 
love affairs and m them romantic life. 

Cancer is a movable sign. So the Pisces asc boms will reach 
their levels of peaks in their artistic life. They have high ideals 
about love and religion. 


VI House: Leo 


Leo, the V sign to Kaalchakra is the VI honse to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc boms will gain success in the fields of arts and sports 
and suffer due to diseases in the blood cells. 


Leo is a fiery sign to mean that the Pisces asc boras will suffer 
due to diseases caused by excessive body heat and achieve 
success with arrogance. 


Leo is a fixed sign. So the sufferings in the body, litigations of 
the Pisces asc borns would almost remain permanent and their 
success would also last long. 


Leo is a sign of Sun. So the Pisces asc boms will suffer due to 
calcium deficiency and excessive body heat. They would often 
be troubled by hot climates. 


VII House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc borns will make their opponents to lose their 
energy and strength. Pisces asc borns are mostly inflexible 
towards their opponents and opposite sex. 


Virgo is an earthy sign. So the opponents will tend to tie the 
Pisces asc boms by showing love and affection. 


Virgo is acommon sign. So the Pisces asc boms will not have 
long standing relationships with others and the society. 


Virgo is a sign of Mercury. So the Pisces asc borns will often 
meet with dual-natured persons who are excellent in 
mathematics. 


VIII House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc borns will often face disrespect caused by 
opposite sex, life partners or business partners or customers. 


Libra is an airy sign. So the Pisces asc borns will face 
unexpected troubles due to respiratory disorders and in cyclones 
and for the cause of others. 


356 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Libra is a movable sign. So the Pisces asc boms will face 
prolonged troubles. 


Libra is a house of Venus. So the Pisces asc boms will face 
mental dejections, disrespect due to women and unexpected 
sufferings in kidneys or uterus. 


IX House: Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII sign of Kaalchakra, is the [IX house to Pis¢es. 
So the Pisces asc boms will tend to imvolve in illegal activities; 
they may go to the extreme level of committing murder and 
robbery for the cause of their illegal affairs; challenge the law 
and order of a region; suffer subsequent to organ transplantation. 


Scorpio is a watery sign. So the Pisces asc borns will have 
research minds and think about the miseries and secrets of life. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So by nature the academic careers, 
journeys and research ventures of the Pisces asc boms will 
always remain stable. 


Scorpio is a house of Mars. So the Pisces asc borns will excel 
in the academics of finance, criminology and foreign exchanges. 


X House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius, the [X sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc borns will lose their status and prestige in 
their professional fields, may hold honorary posts or may work 
in the fields of education, have illegal affairs at places of work, 
face legal troubles in professional career. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign. So the Pisces asc borns will be 
arrogant in illegal affairs by using their name, fame and authority. 
Sagittarius is a common sign; so the Pisces asc boras will see 
fluctuations in their status and prestige. 


Sagittarius is a sign of Jupiter. So the Pisces asc borns will 
gain power and authority with due status and prestige in their 
professional careers. 


t Ee oe — = Tle | = 


Pisces — -- - 357 


XI House ; Capricorn 


Capricorn, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc borns will fulfil their desires in their 
professional ventures and will do things of their choice in their 
professional career. 


Capricorn is an earthy sign. So the Pisces asc boras will fulfil 
their desires through love, affection and by being flexible. 


Capricorn is a movable sign. So the Pisces asc boras will have 
very high levels of burning desires. 


Since Capricorn is a house of Saturn, the Pisces asc boras 
will develop their cheap interests and will fulfil them secretly. 


XII House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaalchakra is the XII house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc boras will be happy in maintaining secrecy 
and will have success in their secret activities. 


Aquarius is an airy sign. So the Pisces asc bornss will have 
high degree of research capabilities. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign. So the Pisces asc boras will abscond 
for tong and gain permanent successes in their secret activities. 


Aquarius is a sign of Saturn. So the Pisces asc boras will live 
as they like through secret activities. 


SIGNIFICATIONS OF PISCES UNRELATED TO ASCENDANT 


II House : Aries 


Aries the first sign of Kaalchakra is the II house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc boms will become authoritative and dominant 
with self-pride when their financial status gets improved. They 
tend to make financial gains with the use of their eloquence; 
They tend to keep liquid cash just to exhibit their self-pride. 


Aries is a fiery sign. So the Pisces asc boms will have dominating 
speech with self-pride and would tell lies copiously. They will 
be spendthrifts and would like to possess weapons. 


358 ~~ Astrologics of kualchakra 


Aries is a movable sign. The fmancial flow and the income of 
Pisces asc borns will always maintain an upward trend; like to 
possess coral ornaments, gold, valuables, costly articles, money 
and documents. 


Aries is a house of Mars. So the Pisces asc boms will be 
spendthrifts, liars, dishonest persons, like to wear coral 
ornaments, deal in metals, like to seize the belongings of others 
by threatening and will hurt the feelings of others in financial 
matters. 


If the 2na house falls in the star of Aswani, ruled by Ketu, the 

Pisces asc borns will be stubborn in their speech, improve their 
fmancial status by improper means, cunning and controversial 

during conversations, possess drugs and intoxicants, spread 

rumours for fmancial gains and may deal in diamonds. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc borns will, 


(i) have excessive energy production in the body; get 
benefited from education, fruits, vegetables, gram fields, 
farms, educational centres, libraries, ponds and 
reservoirs. 


(ii) get benefited from society,. professional recognition, 
subsidy, assistance from others, partnerships, wife/life 
partners, banks and by tax evasions. 


If the 2na house falls in the star of Bharani, ruled by Venus, the 
Pisces asc boms will be benefited financially from women, 
cosmetic goods, films, silks, costly artistic goods, diamonds and 
gold; their financial status would always be healthy and they 
will eam money through their pleasing and attractive speech. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc boras will, 


(1) be intelligent in conversations, get benefited from 
writings, thoughts and ideas, mental inclmation and 
courageous actions, placing intelligent arguments, 
information and communication; gain confidence from 
income and change themselves for the cause of money 

Pisces ~ oe ee 


and show enough interest in earning money. 


(ii) earn by harassments, robbery, thefts, raping, murders, 
cheating, forgery, bribery and all kinds of illegal 
activities; by dealing in old and obsolete goods, by 
serving in dirty places or in mortuary or at accident wards 
or in insurance departments. 


Tfthe 2na house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Pisces asc borns will deal with financial status of the country, 
finance companies and departments, government revenue, 
orders, national savings, stamps and carbuncle ornaments. 


Sun is the lord of 6" house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc borns 
will gain out of competitions, catering, tailoring, medicines, 
physical labour, money lending, litigations, rental goods and 
house rents, will be able to get medical benefits and mostly 
belong to monthly income groups. 


II House : Taurus 


Taurus, the II sign of Kaalchakra is the III house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc borns will courageously undertake financial 
matters for personal gains. They would gain from informations 
and communications. 


Taurus is an earthy sign. So the Pisces asc boms will be flexible 
when financial matters are concerned. 


Taurus is a fixed sign. So their courage, confidence, 
communication would be permanent, would mostly remain 
away from home and would carry long-standing repercussions. 


Taurus is a sign of Venus. So the Pisces asc boras Will have 
happy and harmomous communication, information, agreements 
and public relations; will write happy and joyful stories, articles 
and poems; work as editors or film script-writers and will get 
brokerage by making others feel happy. 


If the 3ra house falls in the star of Krittiga, ruled by Sun, the 
Pisces asc boms will deal with government orders, serve in 
information, communication and publicity departments of the 
government like postal, telephone, radio, television and statistics. 


360 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Sun is the lord of 6m house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc borns 
will become sellers of foods, dresses, medicmes and medical 
equipments; lawyers, pay & accounts officers, rent collectors, 
postmen, lessors, medical counsellors, money lenders against 
documents; undertake house-keeping and gain success in 
competitive exammations. 

If the 3ra house falls in the star of Rohini, ruled by Moon, the 
Pisces asc borns will be very quick in information and 
communication, undertake short journeys, will be document 
writers, write articles and imaginative stories and will render 
commentaries. 

Moon is the lord of V house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc borns 
will write about share market, sports, politics, religious rituals 
and romance; induce actions by deep thoughts, sharpen their 
skills of intelligence, will become religious preachers and 
perform in music and drama auditoriunis. 


If the II house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Pisces asc boms will show courage and confidence, spread false 
information, have forged documents and include unnecessary 
clauses in Improper agreements. 


Mars 1s also the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc borns will, 


(t) excel in the skill of writmg, undertake written actions, 
deal m cheques and money related documents, write 
about truths and will have the capacity to grasp things 
quickly. 


(ii) enter into confident agreements of research, get due 
publicity, exchange currencies, will be certified in 
education, receive orders of headship im offices, 
affectionate towards foreigners, will become 
messengers, mediators, clerks in law departments, 
protectors of ancient monuments, have government links 
in religious matters and services, negotiate for 
endowments, work m organ transplantation, compute 
sales and income tax accounts and will take lease of 
temple properties. 

Pics ‘ -[_——-- — 35 


IV House : Gemini 


Gemini, the III sign of Kaalchakra is the IV house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc boras will deal in lands, vehicles, properties and 
machinery. They mostly live in multi-storied buildings in the 
end part of a narrow street. Mostly their houses would face 
western direction. 


Gemini is an airy sign. So the Pisces asc boras will write songs, 
stories and articles; they will excel in mathematics. They will 
live in an airy place. 


Gemini is a common sign. The properties, lands, vehicles, house, 
machinery and belongings of the Pisces asc borns would not 
remain permanent with them. 


Mercury is the lord of Gemini. So the Pisces asc boms will 

possess sensitive instruments like calculators, computers, 

printers, electrical and electronic goods, spare parts of 

machinery, tiles and lathe works, will become assemblers of 

vehicles and ticket-checkers of transport organisations and may 
own lodges. 


If the 4" house falls in the star of Mrigasira, ruled by Mars, the 
Pisces asc boms will show arrogance in possessing lands, 
vehicles and machinery; become landlords and may own 
agricultural farms, livestock farms, huge industries and 
machinery for production of chemicals and fertilizers. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc borns will, 


(i) purchase costly and utility oriented articles, build 
bungalows, purchase gold and ornaments, make 
extravagant purchases and will like to keep properties 
in their personal custody. 


(ii) become contractors of properties, high school teachers, 
head masters, protectors of ancient monuments, 
importers, exporters, researchers and clerks in courts, 
eam name and fame in education, make barter 
exchanges, serve in panchayat boards, trust for temple 


62-——- -— — ~~ Astrologics of kaalchakra 


properties, produce artificialorgans and have links with 
temples and religious institutions. 


If the 4th house falls in the star of Arudra, ruled by Rahu, the 
Pisces asc borns will study in foreign countries, deal with 
vehicles, live in guest houses or in government quarters or in 
prisons and will deal in graveyards, intoxication materials and 
adulterated food articles. 


(For the house significations of Rahu, please include the 
significations of Jupiter.) 


If the 4th house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Pisces asc borns will hold legally valid properties and big 
organisations, run education centres, produce goods especially 
food articles, silk, turmeric, cotton and livestock, real estate 
and will become surveyors and land inspectors. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 1 & 10 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc boms will, 


(i) have their own manufacturing processes, undertake 
courageous acts in matters of properties and make 
independent purchases and increase their strength. 


(ii) become honorary zamindars or landlords, industrialists, 
administrative officers, responsible officers for 
documents, hold responsible posts and will become 
persons with name and fame. 


V House : Cancer 


Cancer, the IV sign of Kaalchakra is the V house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc borns will face troubles in their love affairs and 
romantic life. They will feel dissatisfied in devotional worships 
and in love affairs. Their first child may face longevity problems. 
They will excel in the construction of buildings. 


Cancer is a watery sign. The Pisces asc borns will gain wisdom 
and knowledge and would become experts in the fields of arts 
and culture. 


Cancer is a movable sign. The faith in god of Pisces asc borns 


isces “363 


would get intensified with time. Their love affairs, knowledge 
and deep thoughts would see gradual development. 


Cancer is a house of Moon. So the Pisces asc boms will excel 
in character roles in films and plays, become poets, thinkers 
and cricket players, associate themselves with recreation clubs 
and sports clubs and will have intelligent children. 


If the 5th house falls in the star of Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Pisces asc boms will have religious links, faith in god and 
deep thoughts; will be sincere and truthful in love affairs; become 
political or religious leaders and render service in religious 
institutions. 


Jupiter is the lord of houses | & 10 to Pisces. So the Pisces asc 
borns will, 


(i) deal in share markets, chant Vedic mantras; would be 
fond of sports and games; write poems and short stories, 
interested in politics and arts; become trainer of arts, 
associate themselves with marriage registration offices 
and places of religious rituals; will innovate artistic 
goods. 


(ii) hold honorary posts as artists, deal with industry for 
artistic goods, become responsible for large temples, 
hold posts with easy workload and eam name and fame 
in their professions. 


If the 5 house falls in the star of Pushyam, ruled by Saturn, the 
Pisces asc borns will have sexual relationships with people of 
lower strata, become insincere in love affairs, become saints or 
prostitutes or security guards of ponds or water reservoirs, have 
lazy children and act in sober characters. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 11 & 12 to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc borns will, 


(i) learn arts with commitment, arrange lodges, make 
branches of unions, have partnerships with unions and 
associations, have fortunate opportunities of agreements, 
make professional achievements in hvestock and would 


364 ~ Astrologicsof kaalchakra 


like to be in the company of joyful and happy friends. 


(ii) secretly plan for love affairs but fail in them, regain: 
energy and strength, deliver child secretly, hide and 
protect child and will rejoin with a separated member 
of the family. 


If the 5m house falls in the star of Aslesha, ruled by Mercury, 
the Pisces asc borns will become singers, comedians, debaters, 
arts trainers, painters, sculptors, priests, instrumentalists, 
commission agents and singers preaching the values of society. 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc boras will, 


(i) produce nutritious food, livestock, musical instruments, 
cosmetics, films; arrange stages for music and dramas 
and will have a high degree of stamina in the body: 


(ii) have cordial relationships with society, live in 
government quarters for artists, get instruments from 
government, enter into partnerships, associate with 
social service clubs or guest houses and marry persons 
of their choice. 


VI House : Leo 


Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra is the VI house to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc borns will serve in the fields of arts and culture, sports 
and gambling; also, they may have to face frequent litigations 
in these fields and may suffer due to viral infections. 


Leo is a fiery sign. So the Pisces asc boras will serve in those 
fields where fire is used; they may also suffer due to heat-borne 
diseases. 


Leo is a fixed sign. So the food and the digestive system of 
Pisces asc borns would remain stable. They are reluctant to 
change their dresses or costume styles; The litigations would 
remain unsolved for long but the success gained by them would 
carry long-standing effects. They may mostly be employed in 
permanent service; their diseases also would remain for lfong. 


Bacon —e = = 


isces 365 


Leo is a sign of Sun. So the Pisces asc boras will serve in 
government departments of food and agriculture, cattle, 
employment, medicines and loans. They may also represent 
government side in litigations. 


If the 6 house falls m the star of Makha, ruled by Ketu, the 
Pisces asc boras will acquire loans with an mtention to cheat, 
become criminals, deal in acids, illicit drugs and intoxicating 
materials and become criminal lawyers or doctors of gastro- 
enteritis. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 4 & 7 to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc boras will, 


(i) have excessive energy production m the body, serve in 
huge organisations of lands, housing, vehicles and 
automobiles, catering fields or livestock and cattle 
developments, may work for daily wages, become 
school teachers, manufacturers of house-hold articles 
like furniture and stage decorators of music and dramas. 


(i) serve in social service institutions and voluntary 
organisations or labour welfare offices and will become 
agents of government officials, marriage brokers, and 
labour contractors. 


If the 6* house falls m the star of Poorvapalguni, ruled by Venus, 
the Pisces asc boras will serve in the fields of arts and culture, 
tailoring, silk-manufacturing, weaving, sale of vegetables, fruits, 
hardware, glass wares, plastics, paints, cosmetics or sweets and 
suffer due to diabetes or water-borne diseases. 


Venus is also the lard of houses 3 & 8 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc boms will, 


(i) have press publicity alaut their success, publish books 
on profession, involve in advertising and publication 
departments, enter into agreements of employment, 
confident in their service and work as clerks in tender 
or personnel departments. 


(ti) become hard workers with heavy workload, undertake 
jobs of disrespect under severe working conditions and 


366 . Zz an ~~ Astrologics of kaalchakra 


jobs in which labour privileges are deprived and may 
undertake repairing jobs. 


If the 6m house falls in the star of Uttarapalguni, ruled by Sun, 
the Pisces asc boms will serve m government departments of 
food and agriculture, cattle, employment, medicines and loans. 
They may also represent government side in litigations. 


Sun is the lord of 6 house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc boms 
will work in competitive exam centres, lodges, hospitals, 
nursing, health care centres, and in the fields of tailoring, 
weaving and catering. 


VH House : Virgo 


Virgo, the VI sign of Kaalchakra is the VII house to Pisces. So 
the Pisces asc borns will not have mutual understandings with 
their life partners leading to separations, divorces and troubles. 
They may also suffer due to contagious diseases. 


Virgo is an earthy sign. So the Pisces asc boms will have 
disciphned and affectionate spouses and business partners. 


Virgo is a common sign. The relationships of the Pisces asc 
borns between life/business partiiers , opposite sex and customers 
would see more and more fluctuations. The functioning of 
kidneys and sensory organs may be improper. 


Virgp is a sign of Mercury. So the life/business partners of 
Pisces asc borns may be clever and cunning; the Pisces asc 
boms may often have to meet with mediators, business customers 
and academicians. 


If the 7th house falls in the star of Uttarapalgum, ruled by Sun, 
the Pisces asc boms may have life/business partners with self- 
pride, often meet with persons belonging to public works and 
welfare departments, government officers and high ranking 
officials. 


Sun is the lord of 6" house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc borns may 
often meet with bank officials, money-lenders, servants, patients, 
doctors, cooks, lawyers and suffer due to contagious diseases. 


Pisces 367 


If the 7 house falls in the star of Hastha, ruled by Moon, the 
Pisces asc borns will marry young and energetic persons with 
fluctuating minds; meet customers and business partners quite 
frequently. 


Moon is the lord of 5" house to Pisces. So the life/business 
partners of Pisces asc borns will become artists, priests, 
prostitutes, pimps, saints, singers, astrologers or religious 
servants. 


Ifthe 7t house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
life/business partners and the 2nd child of Pisces asc boms may 
be undisciplined with arrogance; the Pisces asc boms may often 
meet with people who threaten public and will be forced to 
request for other's assistance. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc boms will, 


(i) get the scholarship of others, have meaningful dialogues 
with banks, lack digestive capacity, purchase gold and 
valuables with the help of others, get money as 
assistance, costly goods as donation; work beyond the 
needs of others and become members of joint family. 


(ii) often meet with leaders, foreigners, exporters, judges, 
priests, trustees, teachers and people with social recognition. 


VIII House : Libra 


Libra, the VII sign of Kaalchakra is the VIII house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc boms will face troubles caused by life/business 
partners and customers. They will be threatened by opposite 
sex and they will be put into disrespects by them. 


Libra is an airy sign. So the Pisces asc boms will face difficulties 
due to natural calamities like bomb blasts and air pressures and 
suffer due to respire*ory. disorders. 


Libra is a movable sign. The life of Pisces asc boms will 
generally be long but the disrespects caused to them would also 
remain for long. Pains, stress, troubles and accidents may recur 


6 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


frequently. 


Libra is a house of Venus. So the Pisces asc boms will face 
disrespects and harassments caused by women; kidnap, threaten 
and rape women and will lose happiness due to women. 


If the 8: house falls in the star of Chitra, ruled by Mars, the 
Pisces asc boms will get into quarrels, riots, wars, straggles, 
violence, terrorism, seizures, allegations, police or military 
actions, seize properties of others, handle weapons and bombs, 
will be troubled by brothers, meet with cruel accidents, cheat, 
rape, murder or steal and may be part of suicide squads. 


Mars is the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Pisces. So the Pisces asc 
borns will, 


(i) talk with troubles and difficulties, suffer due to allergy 
and will donate money and costly articles beyond their 
capacity. 


(ii) face difficulties in port contracts, will face stay of 
transfer orders and in teaching profession, will meet with 
fire accidents in research centres, will close trusts and 
endowments, will do subversive activities in trusts to 
maintain temples and in collection of taxes, will be 
punished by the court of law and will have damages in 
ancient monuments. 


If the 8* house falls in the star of Swathi, ruled by Rahu, the 
Pisces asc boras will be imprisoned, face troubles during sex, 
addicted to intoxicants, will be alleged and punished in foreign 
countries; suffer due to respiratory infections and deficiency in 
proteins and the belongings of Pisces asc boras may be seized. 


(For Rahu's house significations, kindly include the house 
significations of Jupiter.) 


If the 8m house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Pisces asc borns will be punished or fined by courts, lose 
gold and valuables, do illegal activities, produce goods with 
damages and enter into actions of illegal seizures. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses 1 & 10 to Pisces. So the Pisces 


$ 369 


(i) lose self-thoughts, physica] energy and would become 
inactive, perform with struggles; lack in independent 
actions; suffer due to allergy, troubles, pains, stress and 
amputations in their service and face dejections in their 
professional career. 


(ii) face allegations in their substantiation process of 
employment and will be corrupt by misusing their 
administrative powers in high posts to lose name, farne 
and promotions. 


IX House : Scorpio 


Scorpio, the VIII house of Kaalchakra is the IX house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc boras may get mto illegal affairs in departments 
of finance and foreign affairs, high courts, hospitals and colleges 

and during foreign journeys. 


Scorpio is a watery sign. So the Pisces asc boras will face 
troubles in life and problems in ponds and water tanks and during 
rainy seasons and in urinary tracts. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign. So the higher education, foreign journeys, 
life at foreign countries and research ventures of the Pisces asc 
borns will be stable in nature. Their credibility would remain 
permanent and few of them may become as polygamists. 


Scorpio is a house of Mars. So the Pisces asc borns may study 
agriculture, geology, mechanical engineering, history and 
archaeology, become bead masters, politicians, transporters, 
landlords and judges and involve in branches of criminal law. 


If the 9th house falls in the star of Vishakha, ruled by Jupiter, the 
Pisces asc borns will have higher education and will be in the field 
of teaching; become responsible for controlling financial activities 
of the country, gain intelligence and wisdom, alter the codes of 
religion, law and social discipline, involve in religious rituals, 
religious services and become trustees, temple executives, 
ambassadors and exporters. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses I & 10to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc borns will, 


370 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) research with own ideas, calm and stable in their 
independent actions, become academicians, enjoy 
increased activities and proper functioning of body, have 
flexibility m their working capacity, suffer due to 
swellings and growths, have changes in the body and 
would become stout and get needed rest in sleep and m 
calm thoughts. 


(ti) work in the fields of transport, information and 
communication, courts and law, imports and exports, 
ports, electricity, teaching, research centres, endowments 
and temples, tax collection, international offices of 
agreements, panchayat boards and in protection of 
ancient monuments. 


If the 9" house falls in the star of Anuradha, ruled by Saturn, 
the Pisces asc boras will learn science, will be slow in their 
academic career due to lack of needed inclination, work in 
research of oil seeds, blood, urme and sputum and work in oil 
fields. 


Saturn is also the lord of houses 1] & 12 to Pisces. So the 
Pisces asc borns will, 


(i) study diploma courses, hold honorary posts, become 
successful and make achievements in research to identify 
right ways, eam name and fame, gain success with 
greediness, always remam happy and joyful, haVe 
needed co-operation with societies and gain success m 
agreements with societies, have fortunate chances of 
employment and will be fond of taking fatty foods. 


(ii) spend much im secret links, face fmancial crisis 
especially due to second professtonal venture andspend 
for religious service, unable to liquidate capital, find 
hidden factors and learn in research fields. 


If the 9» house falls m the star of Jyeshta, ruled by Mercury, 
the Pisces asc borns will work as clerks in research centres, 
become high school teachers, counsellors, lawyers, 
mathematicians, statisticians, advertisers, servants of embassy,,. 
penis of foreign trade oo accountants in treasuries. 

isces — — — 


Mercury is also the lord of houses 4 & 7to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc boras will, 


(i) study teaching courses, have ancestral properties and 
properties in foreign countnies, maintain temple 
properties, use imported goods, become founder of 
schools and colleges, work in maintenance division of 
automobiles, production departments, grain fields and 
research centres. 


(ii) become disciplined worker im social service centres and 
voluntary organisations, get due recognition from 
government for their social and voluntary institutions, 
maintain friendships with government officials, marry 
the sister of wife and will be induced into illegal affairs 
by opposite sex. 


X House : Sagittarius 


Sagittarius , the IX sign of Kaalchakra is the X house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc boras will work in the professional fields of 
law, religion, import & export, become contractors and 
superintendents of construction works and may work in 
panchayat offices. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign. So the Pisces asc borns will hold 
important and responsible posts as leaders. 


Sagittarius is a common sign. So the status, prestige, posts and 
profession of the Pisces asc borns would see many fluctuations. 


Sagittarius is a house of Jupiter. So the Pisces asc borns will 
hold responsible or honorary posts in big organisations; serve 
in banks, child welfare societies , mints, gold mines and national 
monuments. 


If the 10 house falls in the star of Moola, ruled by Ketu, the 
Pisces asc boras will involve in legal activities using their 
status and authority, illegal professions, gain status through 
illegal means and will feel dissatisfied in all walks of life. 


Ketu would act like Mercury, the lord of houses 4 & 7. So the 
Pisces asc borns will, 


372. Astrologics of kaalchakra 


(i) be manufacturers of commodities, become agriculturists, 
cleaners and house-keepers; work in the fields of 
building constructions, automobiles, electricity, boilers, 
water tanks, grain fields, farms, fruit gardens, godowns 
and industries. 


(ii) serve in social and public service institutions, become 
marriage brokers or labour contractors, enter into 
partnerships and represent themselves in social forums. 


If the 10° house falls in the star of Poorvashada, ruled by Venus, 
the Pisces asc boras will earn status and prestige in professional 
fields of arts and culture and work in the fields of intoxicants or 
prostitution. 


Venus is also the lord of houses 3 & 8 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc boras will, 


(i) work in those professions wherein the Pisces born are 
expected to think beyond their capacity, get professional 
press publicity, become brokers, involve in the fields of 
information and communication, work in the fields of 
printing, publishing, plumbing, writing, electricity, collection 
of fees, accounting, sale of goods and work as assistants. 


(ii) work in the fields of old and obsolete goods and may 
work as professional criminals. 


If the 10 house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, 
the Pisces asc boras will become government officials, work in 
semi/quasi government organisations, industrial centres, 
industrial training centres, employment offices and government 
trade centres and hold honorary government posts. 


Sun is also the lord of 6 house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc 
boras will work in competitive examination centres, medical 
shops, hotels and as medical officers, nurses, lab technicians, 
lawyers, money lenders or tailors. 


"ISCeS 373 


XI House : Capricom 


Capricorn, the X sign of Kaalchakra is the XI house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc borns will fulfil their desires through their 
profession. They will tend to win over the minds of others 
through their profession. 


Capricorn is an earthy sign. So the Pisces asc boms will be 
joyful, happy persons and always be enthusiastic. 


Capricorn is a movable sign; the profession, status, authority 
and posts of the Pisces asc boms will always progress with an 
upward trend. 


Capricorn is a house of Saturn. So the Pisces asc boms will 
have lazy, undisciphned and dishonest friends, sons-in-law and 
daughters-in-law, will get things done in untruthful ways and 
the properties purchased by them will be with litigations. 


If the 11 house falls in the star of Uttarashada, ruled by Sun, 
the Pisces asc bom will work in the professional fields of 
government bodies, societies, co-operative clubs, friendship 
forums, government festivals, guest houses, monuments, co- 
operative centres, and will be able to get government assistance, 
subsidies, medals and honours. 


Sun is the lord of 6th house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc borns 
will gain success in their ftelds of interest, suffer due to vitamin 
deficiencies, join in the services of their choice and always find 
themselves with successful opportunities. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Shravana, ruled by Moon, 
the Pisces asc boras will have more number of friends who 
tend to create confusions and the Pisces asc boras will be persons 
of self-satisfaction and remain selfish. 


Moon is the lord of 5th house to Pisces. So the Pisces asc borns 
will fall in love affairs, enter into mutual agreements, show 
interest in the fields of arts and culture and have cordial and 
harmomious social relationships. 


If the 11" house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, 
the Pisces asc borns will have untruthful and insincere friends, 


~ Astrologics of kaalchakra 


sons-in-law and daughters-in-law, will have success only after 
struggles, will be greedy and could win their professional desires 
only after prolonged struggles. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc borns will, 


(i) use eloquence for professional gains, gain out of their 
speech, gain expected gold and valuables, benefit out 
of friends, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law and utilize 
Opportunities and circumstances. 


(ii) have links with social service institutions and higher 
officials, show interests in public service centres, 
undertake journeys, researches, courses of higher studies 
of their choice, have international contacts and will 
frequently enter into agreements. 


XII House : Aquarius 


Aquarius, the XI sign of Kaaichakra is the XII house to Pisces. 
So the Pisces asc borns will be able to liquidate their capital 
and investments, maintain secrecy in friendships and will be 
able to fulfil their desires only after making extravagant 
expenditures. 


Aquarius is an airy sign. So the Pisces asc boras will involve in 


secret research, investigations, archaeology and in the research 
fields. 


Aquarius is a fixed sign. So the Pisces asc borns will 
consistently involve in secret researches and would make steady 
expenditures. Their investment would remain steady for long. 


Aquarius is a house of Saturn. So the Pisces ase boras will 
take secret revenges against their opponents, they tend to hoard 
and adulterate things, will reject things, make secret plans and 
will act secretly. 


If the 12™house falls in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, 
the Pisces asc boras will involve in investigations, adulterations, 
hoardings, smugglings, secret and illegal activities and work in 
operation theatres, prostitution dens or lodges. 


Pisces oe — Oe ee ee eee eee eee 


37. 


Mars is also the lord of houses 2 & 9 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc boras will, 


(i) be able to regain what was lost, will have diseases in 
digestive system and eyes, invest 1n gold, valuables and 
will have secret financial transactions. 


(ij) spend for social service centres and voluntary 
organisations, have secret hnks with higher officials and 
foreign nations; undertake foreign journeys; face 
troubles in higher education; enter into secret agreements 
and have secret illegal affairs. 


If the 12™house falls in the star of Shathabisham, ruled by Rahu, 
the Pisces asc borns will involve in secret investigations, 
software, atomic power stations, explosives, anaesthesia, 
artificial respiratory system's, prisons and hijacking of planes. 


(For the house significations of Rahu, kindly include the 
significations of Jupiter.) 


If the I2"house falls in the star of Poorvabadra, ruled by Jupiter, 
the Pisces asc boras will involve in legally valid secret activities 
Or printing of fake currencies, face secret troubles and 
imprisonments by law, undertake secret financial reviews, will 
be raided by income-tax authorities and the secret properties of 
the Pisces asc borns will be seized by government. 


Jupiter is also the lord of houses I & 10 to Pisces. So the Pisces 
asc borns will, 


(i) lack physical energy and self attention, suffer due to 
inferiority complex, become masochists, underestimate 
themselves, suffer due to allergy, lack in imaginations 
and face troubles in their actions. 


(ii) undertake jobs with secret responsibilities with heavy 
workload or dual natured jobs. 


In addition to the above, the residential positions of the planets 
should also be taken into consideration for a comprehensive 
study of a horoscope. 


376 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


ANNEXURE (SPORTS) 


Different fields of sports and games could be identified in the 
zodiac for astrological study and research. For example, sprint, 
one of the sports, has been studied here after a detailed analysis 
of a set of charts that were available with us and after providing 
scope for improvements from the feedbacks of the readers. 


SPRINT is a sport of running a short distance at full speed. 
Naturally, the karaka planet ought to be Moon, the fastest planet. 
Moon is the lord of the sign Cancer, a movable sign, again to 
reassure the conclusion on motion. Cancer has three stars, 1.c., 
Punarvasu, ruled by Jupiter, Pushyam, ruled by Saturn and 
Aslesha, ruled by Mercury. The sport of sprint, 1.e., the 100 
metres or 200 metres dash, requires very good strength on legs. 
Saturn is the karaka planet of legs. So Pushyam could be the 
star for this sport of sprmt. There are four quarters in Pushyam 
star that would spread in the Navamsa signs of Leo, Virgo, 
Libra and Scorpio. The field of sports is one of those 
significations of the sign Leo, as it 1s the V sign of the Zodiac: 
So Pushyam first quarter may generally denote the sport of sprint. 


So the V house of a person may have to fall in the first quarter 
of the star of Pushyam for him to become a sportsperson of 
sprit. It may be possible only to those who are born in the 
Ascendant sign of Pisces. Saturn, being the lord of houses 11 
& 12 would enable the Pisces asc boras to gain success in sprint. 


If Saturn remains in the I house of the natal chart, 1.e., i the 
sign of Pisces itself, he/she would be able to earn status. If it 
resides in the II house, Aries, he/she could earn money; If it 
resides in the II house, Taurus, he/she would avail needed 
publicity; if it is in the sign of Gemini, the IV house, he/she 
may become a trainer of sprint and could participate in the local 
events; If it is in the sign of Cancer, the V house, he/she may 
represent the nation; If it is in the sign of Leo, the VI house, he/ 
she may win competitions; If it resides in the sign of Virgo the 


Annexure (Sports) 377 


VII, he/she may represent clubs in group events; If it resides in 
the sign Libra, the VIII house to Pisces, he/she may get into 
frequent injuries in this sport event; If it resides in the sign 
Scorpio, the [X house, he/she may represent their state in the 
national events. If it resides in the sign of Sagittarius, the X 
house, he/she may undertake foreign journeys to represent the 
nation and thus could earn status as a national player. If it resides 
in the sign of Capricorn; the XI house, the ambition to shine in 
this field of sport could be fulfilled and could bring honours to 
them. If it resides in the sign of Aquarius, the XII house, he/she 
may be able to participate m the world events like Olympics. 


So we could draw a logic that the runners (Sprint) would mostly 
belong to the Ascendant sign of Pisces. But all the Pisces asc 
boras may not be running the same dasa. Only if they are running 
either the Saturn or the Moon dasa/ bhukthi/ antharaa/ 
sookshama, they could show some involvement in this field of 
sport, i.e, only to those who are running Saturn/Moon dasa at 
their right ages of 15-34, could possibly dedicate their life in 
this sport 


This logic could also be extended to people who are running 
dasas of other planets, which are in the star of Saturn or Moon. 
People who are running Saturn or Moon bhukthi in the dasas 
of other planets, could perform only for a short period. If they 
are running Saturn or Moon Antharaa, they could participate 
in one or two important events to settle themselves with a few 
sweet memories of this sport. Scokshma could limit the scope 
__ only for occasional participations in this event. 


If the Pisces asc horns are running Sun dasa, as the planet Sun 
is the lord of VI house to Pisces born, the involvement in 
competitions could naturally be assured. But the success could 
be possible only during the period of Saturn or Moon bhukthies. 


Added to this, if the dasa lard Sun resides in the sign of Aries in 
their natal chart, i.e., for those Pisces asc boras who are born in 
the Tamil month of Chithirai, they may have a fair chance of 
winning cash awards, as Sunis in Aries, the II house to them. If 
it is in the sign of Taurus, the II] house, they will win certificates 


378 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


or silver medals mostly from the hands of a lady. If Sun is in the 
sign of Gemini, the IV house, they will win more than a single 
article as mementos or cheques along with certificates. If Sun 
is in the sign of Cancer, the V house, they will be honoured in 
feasts and may be accommodated in government hotels. If Sun 
is in Leo itself, the VI house, they may be able to win government 
scholarships. If Sun resides in the sign of Virgo, the VII house, 
they may be able to get prizes sponsored by sports clubs and 
corporate companies. If Sun is in the sign of Libra, the VIII 
house, they may unexpectedly receive prizes carrying 
commercial benefits. If Sun is in the sign of Scorpio, the [X 
house, they may unexpectedly be selected fot a tour by the 
government. If Sun is in the sign of Sagittarius, the X house, 
they may win gold medals in prestigious events. If Sun is in the 
sien of Capricorn, the sign of employment, they may be offered 
with employment opportunities. If Sun is in the sign of 
Aquarius, the sign of satisfactions, they would secretly be 
selected for an intemational event. In the above manner, we can 
use the residentships of the other dasa lords (planets) for 
comprehensive study. 


Like Saturn, the planet Moon, the lord of V house to Pisces, 
asc boms, would also encourage persons to show more and more 
involvement and dedication towards this sport; during its dasa, 
bhukthi or antharaa periods. Even the Moon may enable them 
to level their respective national records and performances: If 
Mars dasa is on, as Mars being the lord of houses 2 & 9, the 
Pisces asc boras, in spite of struggles and financial difficulties, 
would show consistent interest by undertaking long and difficult 
journeys. During Rahu dasa, they may undertake foreign 
journeys and would perform like strong winds at the intemational 
levels. If Jupiter dasa is running, they may participate in the 
regular annual events abroad. If Mercury dasa is running, they 
may participate only in the local events and would remain as a 
trainer and would associate themselves with training schools 
and sports clubs. They would also like to train one of their family 
members in this field of sports. If Ketu dasa is running, they 
may feel dejected in choosing this career and would not pay 
sustained interest in this game and would prefer and practice 


Annexure (Sports) 379 


for a different event in this same kind of sports. If Venus dasa is 
running, they would become more nervous during their 
performances and would subsequently end up with failures. Their 
minds may remain as barriers to success. 


During Saturn dasa, the Pisces asc boras would show needed 

involvement in sprint. In its own bhukthi, the practice and 

involvement will be there and they would become entertainers. 

In Mercury bhukthi, they would opt for a different event in this 

kind of sport. In Ketu bhukthi, they may lack practice due to 

their diversion of attention i changing the style of performance 

in the event. During Venus bhukthi, they may sustain injuries 

and may lack concentration. During Sun bhukthi, they would 

perform well and make achievements. During Moon bhukthi, 
they will register their career-best speed. During Mars bhukthi, 
they will sustain injuries during journeys. During Rahu bhukthi, 
they will perform well in international events and during Jupiter 
bhukthi, they will be on top of their career with international 

status and prestige. 


Now we have a different question before us as to whether all 
the sprinters in the world would belong to the same category of 
Pisces ascendant boras. It could not be rational. As in any other 
case, there would be representations by all the twelve ascendant 
borns. But on one condition; they must run Saturn or Moon 
dasa and Saturn or Moon should be in their V house or their V 
house should have fallen in the stars of Saturn or Moon. Also 
it should be important that any one of their houses should begin 
in the first quarter of Pushyam. Only then, this Zodiac point of 
Pushyam first quarter could suitably represent its signification 
of sprint. 


The combination of the Moon, the fastest planet and Saturn, 
the karaka planet for legs is also available in the Shravana star 
of Capricorn sign, which is again a movable sign. Only to those 
who are born in the Hastha star of Virgo as Asc, the V house 
would fall in the star of Shravana. The planet Saturn becomes 
the lord of houses V & VI and the planet Moon becomes the 
lord of XI house to these people. Hence, the Virgo asc borns 


380 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


could also become as sports persons in this field. But the 
disadvantages to the Virgo asc borns are: 


(i) The V house, Capricorn is an earthy sign whereas 
Cancer is a watery sign.. Water flows speedily compared 
to solid articles. 


(ii) Leo, the V sign of Kaalchakra, is the XII house to the 
Virgo born. (XII is also VIII to their V house). So mostly, 
the Virgo asc borns would not explicitly show their 
interests in the field of sports. But to the Pisces asc borns, 
the V sign of Kaalchakra, Leo is the VI house, 1.e., the 
house of physique and labour. 


Before concluding, I would like to remind the readers about the 
appropriate use of the transit of Saturn and Moon as they have 
to transit in favourable houses for ensuring success. In the 
Placidius method of house divisions, two consecutive houses 
may fall in the same sign, depending upon different latitudes of 
birth places. To Sayana births, the cusps may vary completely; 
these factors should also be kept in mind before determining 
the prospects of a person to become a successful sportsperson 
of this field. 


Of course, I am sure that the KP/KB followers would not forget 
to apply the rules of merits of sublords for a comprehensive and 
detailed study of cases. As a part of academic interest and 
especially to the KP/KB followers of astrology, I think the 
following may stand as a case of reverse study. We Indians could 
never forget the name of the sprint queen of our nation, P.T.Usha 
and her great contribution to our national pride. We may not 
know the date and time of her birth; but we presume that she 
had been born in Pisces Ascendant for the following reasons; 
she has often been described as the "Golden Girl of India”. 
Jupiter, the karaka planet for gold, is the lord of Ascendant and 
also the X house to Pisces. So name and prestige have been 
awarded by Jupiter to her. Her X house would fall in 
Sagittarius, the [IX house, or the house of transport of Zodiac, 
as she is working in Indian Railways. Her 2, 6 and 10 might 
have fallen respectively in the stars of Krittiga, Uttarapalguni 


Annexure (Sports) 381 


and Uttarashada so as to enable her to receive the government 
employment, scholarships and medals. She is also married to her 
trainer, Shri Nambiar; Mercury, the lord of 7* house or the house 
of life partner is also the lord of 4* house, the house of training. Her 
Ascendant must have been linked with the planet Sun, as she carries 
the name of ‘USHAI” which is related to the Sun God. Similarly, 
we can presume the ascendants of eminent sports personalities with 
available information about their physical structure, appearance, 
successful performances and so on. 


382 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


1 


Kaalchakra Principles 
Applied to Residential 
Positions of Planets 


In the preceding chapters we attempted to get to the roots of the 

fundamental principles of Kaalchakra or the Zodiac. Now it is time 
to demonstrate the applicabihty of these principles. In the current 
as well as the following chapters, it is being discussed 1n full length. 


Effects of Residential Positions of Planets 


Following the foot-steps of Jothidamannan Prof K.S. 
Krishnamoorthy, we advocate not to give extra or undue importance 
to exaltation, debilitation, conjomments and aspects of planets. The 
reasons for the same have already been detailed in my previous 
books. 


Consider an example: 

Date 9-3-1962 

Day Friday 

Time 06.15 Hrs. 

Place : Madurai (TN)}(Long.: 9°58’N, Lat: 78°10°E) 
Lagna : Aquarius (Ascendant Lord: Saturn) 

Rasi : Aries (RasiLord: Mars) 

Nakshatra : Aswani-1* Qtr(Nak Lord: Ketu) 

Sidereal Time 17H2M37S 

Ayanamsa 23° 13° 54” 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Residential Position of Planets 383 


Traditional Chart 


Star Quarter Planet Starlord Bhava 
Poorvabadra 2 Sun Jupiter 1 
Aswani } Moon Ketu 2 
Dhanishta 4 Mars Mars 12 
Dhanishta Z Mercury Mars 12 
Dhanishta 3 Jupiter Mars 12 
Uttarabadra } Venus Satum } 
Shravana 2 Satum Moon 1] 
Aslesha 2 Rahu Mercury 6 
Shravana 4 Ketu Moon 12 
Sathabisham 4 Ascendant Rahu 1 


Going by the traditional concepts, (wherein usually the equal house 
system is adopted), if the Lagna falls in the 6" navamsa of Aquarius 
sign, all the other 11 bhavas will naturally fall in the subsequent 6m 


384 A Strologics of kaalchakra 


navamsas of signs as tabulated below. 


When we say that the ascendant falls in the 6 navamsa of the sign 
Aquarius, i.¢., Sathabisham 4th quarter, it only indicates the 
beginning of the ascendant bhava. Similarly all the other 11 bhavas 
begin at their respective star quarters. 


Bhava Navamsa Sign Star Quarter 
Ascendant 6 Aquarius Sathabisham 4 
Z 6 Pisces Revathi 1 
3 6 Aries Bharani 2 
4 6 Taurus Rohini 3 
5 6 Gemini Arudra 4 
6 6 Cancer Aslesha l 
7 6 Leo Poorvapalguni ps 
8 6 Virgo Hastha 3 
9 6 Libra Swathi 4 
10 6 Scorpio Jyeshta 1 
11 6 Sagittarus  Poorvashada 2 
12 6 Capricom = Shravana 3 


The position of the various bhavas in the Rasichakra is called the 
Bhavachakra and this is shown in the accompanying figure. 


Here it may be so said that, all the planets which fall between 
Sathabisham 4* quarter and Revathi 1* quarter at the time of birth 
are actually residing in the ascendant and so on. 


However if Placidus system for defining houses is followed, the 
above statement may or may not be true. This is an illustrative 
chapter to demonstrate the application of Kaalchakra principles. 
We leave it to the readers to adopt it for Placidus House system, 
which should be easily possible after the methodology detailed 
hereunder is grasped fully. 


The cusp of the first bhava (1.e., precisely the point where the first 
bhava begins) for this Aquarius asc born native, obviously has to 
fall at some point in the zodiac, which in turn, will be ruled by a 
certain star. From what has already been elaborated in the preceding 
pages, readers can draw general predictions for the first and also 
the subsequent bhavas. 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Rasidantial Position of Planats 385 


Bharani-2 Rohinl-3 Arudra-4 | 
(Ven) (Moon) (Rahu) 


Aehiasha-1 
(Mer) 


Shravane-3 ; | P.Phaigunt-2 
(Moon) . (Van) 


Revathi-t 
' (Mar) . 
2 


a | 
Aahiaaha-1 
(Ma r) 


Now, we will deal with the residential positions of the planets. 
A planet will provide only the significations ofthe star in which 
it transits at the time of birth. 


SUN 


The planet Sun is in the sign of Aquarius. The lord of 7* house is 
in the ascendant. 


. Aquarius is a fixed sign. So the Sun would make this native to 
enjoy stability with respect to his physical health, mind, capacity, 
colour, structure, beauty and characters like anger, short- 
temperedness and activeness. 


Aquarius being an airy sign would enable the Sun to cause the 
native to have self-pride, sportive nature, lean body and pretentious 
nature of showing affection. 


386° Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Sun itself resides in ascendant. Its planetary significations, would 
make the native majestic and authoritative in appearance with self- 
pride, strong bones, status, leadership qualities, generosity and 
prestige, etc. 


Sun is the lord of 7m house. So it will also mpart 7m house 
significations to ascendant by bestowing the native with social 
relationships and recognitions, tendency to abide by law and to 
depend on others. 


But statistically speaking, these significations are going to be 
common for some 42 million births taking place between 14m 
February and | 4" March out of the poo! of the possible 500 million 
births with Aquarius ascendant in the global population of 6000 
million. So to fine tune our specifications, we move on to identify 
the star or the stellar position of the planet Sun. In this horoscope it 
resides in Poorvabadra, the star of Jupiter. The domain of star 
being shorter than that of the sign, the native now shares a 14 
million strong community of those taking births between 4. March 
and | 4 March. 


Jupiter is the starlord of Sun. Sun would therefore provide the 
significations of Jupiter and not of its own. Jupiter is the lord of 
honses 2 and // to all the Aquarius borns. 


2nd house significations of Jupiter: Linkage with money in higher 
denominations, treasury or banks, pawn brokers, gold articles and 
truthful speech to respect others and teaching by using the voice etc., 


In house significations of Jupiter: Friendships with truthful, 
sincere, generous and intelligent people, expecting things to happen 
through legal means and doing things through legal means. 

In addition to the above mentioned common significations, we now 


add yet another dimension to make it more specific to this native- 
the residential position of the Jupiter. 


Every year Jupiter changes its sign or for that matter, its residence. 
So out of the likely 14 million births, ].17 million would have taken 
place resembling the current case wherein Jupiter transits in the 
same sign of Capricorn, the 12" house. 


Kaaichakra Principles Applied to Residential Position of Planets 387 


So Sun would produce results of 12h house significations of its 
starlord, the Jupiter. 


12" house significations of Jupiter: Secret but legal activities, 
secret but legal troubles, income-tax raids, seizure of binami 
properties by the government, legal imprisonments, secret financial 
reviews and printing of fake currency etc. These are the planetary 
significations of Jupiter only. 


Further, the Sun, as stated above, resides in the ascendant. It is in 
Aquarius sign, Poorvabadra star, It therefore has to deliver the 
results of the matters specific to 2, 11 and 12m houses of the 
ascendant related significations. 


2nd house significations on ascendant: Ability to speak, activeness 
and digestive capacity. 


[th house significations on ascendant: Greedy nature, selfishness, 
happy and joyful, counselor to societies or clubs, desires, fortunes, 
success, achievements, cordiality and flexibility. 


12" house significations on ascendant: Secret activities, loss of 
energy, absconding, sacrifice, investigation, failures, blockages and 
secret troubles, etc. 


MOON 


Moon is in Aries, the fiery sign. It suggests the native to possess 
temperament of prideful speech, telling lies, being spendthrift and 
carrying weapons on person. 


Moon is in movable sign. The development and growing nature of 
digestion capacity, besides the acquisition of valuable and costly 
documents or articles made up of gold or diamonds. 


Though Aries is the third sign from Aquarius, Moon is actually in 
the 2nd house. But Moon is in the star of Aswani, which is ruled by 
Ketu. Ketu is not a ruler to any house, but is in the 12"house to 

Aquarius. So the Moon would act for its starlord Ketu for its 

planetary and the bhava karakas. 


Planetary significations of Ketu meant for 12" house: Secret 
plans, involvements in all kinds of illegal and subversive activities 
and taking secret revenges, etc. 


388 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


As Moon resides in the 2nd house, so blended significations of 
houses 2 and 12 will be manifested. 


12% house significations in the 2nd house: Making gains from 
secret activities, losing energy or body organs, hidden things/cache, 
given or saved money, clandestine activities, getting back lost things 
and re-joining family after separation, etc. 


MARS 


Mars is in Aquarius sign itself, but in the 12" bhava. Aquarius is 
an airy sign so Mars would enable the native to involve in secret 
research, investigations and research in the fields of archaeology 
and education. 


Mars is in a fixed sign. The secret activities, expenses, losses, 
investments, comforts 1n travel, sexual pleasures, sleep, failures of 
organs in the body would prolong to cause for permanent disabihties. 


Mars is the lord of houses 3 and !0to Aquarius. 


The planetary significations of Mars meant for the 3ra house: 
Bravery, confidence, encouraging acts , rumours, forged documents, 
menta! strength, arrogant use of intelligence, unnecessary deals 
and incompetent agreements etc., 


The planetary significations of Mars meant for the 10” house: 
Industries, fire-related professions, departments for housing and 
land development, police, armed forces, administration officers, 
responsible officers for government documents and executive posts 
etc., 


Mars is in the !12"house. So we will have to include the planetary 
significations of Mars meant for the 12th house. 


Planetary significations of Mars meant for the 12th house: 
Improper and unbecoming activities, adulteration, hoarding, 
smuggling, covert activities, and service in operation theatres, 
prostitution dens, luxury hotels and investigation departments, etc. 


Besides the above house significations related to 3, 10 and 12 of 
Mars (being in the 12"house) are: 


3” house: Losing energy, press publicity about personal mishaps, 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Residential Position of Planets 389 


breaks in agreements, hurdles in communication, book sales, 
blockage of news, mistakes in accounts; loss of memory power 
and selling things etc., 


10" house: Responsible posts of secrecy, jobs with overwork and 
doing double natured jobs etc., 


12" house: Losses through secret contacts, invested money, given 
money, inability to get back binami properties, concealing already 
hidden matters, strengthening of secret involvements and doing 
continuous research activities etc., 


As Mars is in its own star of Dhanishta, Mars would independently 
act for itselfin this case. 


MERCURY 


Mercury is in Capricorn, the 12* sign and also in the 12in bhava. 
Capricorn ts an earthy signso Mercury would make the native to 
spend for the cause of affection and love and would involve him in 
research ventures forthe common and noble causes. 


It is a movable sign. The secret activities, expenses, losses, 
investments, comforts in travel, sexual pleasures, sleep, failures of 
organs in the body leading to permanent damages. 


Mercury is in the star of Dhanishta, ruled by Mars, which is in the 
12™ house and is the ruler of houses 3 and 10. As an agent of 
Mars, Mercury would assume the following significations: 


The planetary significations of Mars meant for the 3ra house: 
Bravery, confidence, encouraging acts, rumours, forged documents, 
mental strength, arrogant use of intelligence, unnecessary deals 
and incompetent agreements etc., 


The planetary significations of Mars meant for the 10" house: 
Industries, fire-related professions, departments for housing and 
land development, police, armed forces, administration officers, 
responsible officers for government documents and executive posts 
etc., 


Mars is in the 12™house. So include the planetary significations of 
Mars meant for the {2 house. 


390 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Planetary significations of Mars meant for the 12: house: 
Improper and unbecoming activities, adulteration, hoarding, 
smuggling, covert activities, and service in operation theatres, 
prostitution dens, luxury hotels and investigation departments etc., 


Besides the above the house significations of 3, 10 and 12 of Mars 
in the 12" house are to be included as Mercury would act for the 
planet Mars. 


3rd house: Losing energy, press publicity about personal mishaps, 
breaks in agreements, hurdles in communication, book sales, 
blockage of news, mistakes in accounts, loss of memory power 
and selling things etc., 


10° house: Responsible posts of secrecy, jobs. with heavy workload 
and doing double natured jobs etc, 


12" house: Losses through secret contacts, invested money, given 
money, inability to get back binami properties, concealing already 
hidden matters, strengthening of secret involvements arid doing 
continuous research activities etc., 


JUPITER 


Jupiter is in Aquarius sign, in the 12“ house. It is an airy sign. So 
Jupiter would enable the native to involve in secret research, 
investigations and research in the fields of archaeology and 
education. 


Further, Jupiter is in a fixed sign. Secret activities; expenses, losses, 
investments, comforts in travel, sexual pleasures, sleep, feet and 
failures of organs in the body would remain stable and permanent 
in nature. 


Lastly, it is in the star of Dhanishta; ruled by Mars, the ruler of 
houses 3 & 10 and resident of 12thhouse. So Jupiter would act 
for Mars in this case. 


The planetary significations of Mars meant for the 3ra house: 
Bravery, confidence, encouraging acts, rumours, forged documents, 
mental strength, arrogant use of intelligence, unnecessary deals 
and incompetent agreements etc., 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Residential Position of Planets 


The planetary significations of Mars meant for the 10" house: 
Industries, fire-related professions, departments for housing and land 
development, police, armed forces, administration officers, responsible 
officers for government documents and executive posts etc., 


Mars is in the 12* house. So the planetary significations of Mars 
meant forthe 12" house should also be included. 


Planetary significations of Mars meant for the 12" house: 
Improper and unbecoming activities, adulteration, hoarding, 
smuggling, covert activities, and service in operation theatres, 
prostitution dens, luxury hotels and investigation departments etc., 


Besides the above the house sigmifications of 3 & 10 and 12 of 
Mars in the 12" house are to be included, as Jupiter would aet for 
the planet Mars. 


3” house: Losing energy, press publicity about personal mishaps, 
breaks in agreements, hurdles in communication, book sales, 
blockage of news, mistakes in accounts, loss of memory power 
and selling things etc., 


10" house: Responsible posts of secrecy, jobs with heavy workload 
and doing double natured jobs etc., 


12” house: Losses through secret contacts, invested money, given 
money, inability to get back binam1 properties, concealing already 
hidden matters, strengthening of secret involvements and doing 
continuous research activities ete, 


VENUS 


Venus is in Pisces and in | st bhava. Pisces 1s a watery sign. So 
Venus would impart the native a calm and soft spoken temperament, 
devotion and faith in god, detachments, stout body, etc. 


Venus is in acommon sign. The physical appearance, anger, 
memory power, intelligence, skills, natural characteristics, actions, 
colour and beauty would fluctuate (i.e). would frequently rise and 
fall qualitatively. 


Venus, in this chart, is in Uttarabadra star, ruled by Saturn. So in 
this chart, Venus would assume the significations of Saturn. Saturn 
is the lord of the houses 1 & 12 and is a resident of the 1 1thhouse. 


392 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


The planetary significations of Saturn meant for the Is: house: 
Sluggish, cynical, decision only after prolonged consideration, 
research skills, dissatisfactions in everything and inferiority complex 
etc., 


The planetary significations of Saturn meant for the 12 house: 
Clandestine revenges, hoardings, hiding things underground, working 
out secret plans, adulterations and unbecoming and immoral conduct. 


The planetary significations of Saturn meant for the In house 
by virtue of its resident-ship : Unfaithful, lethargic , immoral and 
dishonest friends, daughters-in-law, sons-in-law: dishonest means 
and properties with encumbrances etc., 


The house significations of t, tf& 12in ascendant (as Venus is in 
ascendant) are as follows. 


Ascendant: Self-thoughts, ideas, brisk activities, skills, impulsive/ 
own acts and show of strength etc., 


Ihin house: Greed, selfishness, exuberant, happiness, club consultant, 
desires, extremely lucky, successes, achievements, joyful and 
accommodative etc., 


12" house: Secret activities, losing energy and power, absconding, 
self-dedication, investigation, secret troubles, hurdles and failures 
in every effort etc., 


SATURN 


Saturn is in Capricorn sign in the tt™house. Capricorn is an 
earthy sign. So this native would show attachment towards his 
friends but would remain greedy. 


Capricorn is a movable sign. So Saturn would enable this native 
to have growths in the matters of self-cravings, happiness, 
expectations, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law and vitamins in the body, 
etc. 


Saturn is in Shravana star, ruled by Moon. Moon is the lord of the 
6* house and is in the 2nd house. So Saturn would assume the 
planetary karakas of Moon with respect to the 2nd & 6th houses. 


2nd house significations of Moon: Frequent income, clear speech 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Residential Position of Planets 393 


and oratory skills, consultant in financial companies, quick acts 
through money, pearl ornaments and silver articles etc., 


6" house significations of Moon: Weakness, labours in dams, 
ship workers, fishermen, plumbers, water related diseases and 
labourers in agricultural fields etc., 


Besides planetary significations, Saturn would also acquire the 
house significations of Moon (2.& 6) through its resident-ship at 
11th bhava. 


2™ houseHappy speech, profit through speech, getting gold articles 
as desired, making profits through friends, sons-in-law and daughters- 
in-law, acquiring costly articles and changing things to their favours. 


6" house: Success in every venture, vitamin-related diseases, joining 
in a desired job, capacity to diagnose diseases arid successful 
opportunities etc. 


RAHU 


Rahu is in Cancer sign and in the 6th house. Cancer is a watery 
sign to mean that the native would suffer due to water-borne 
diseases and would involve in liquid-related professions. 


Cancer is a movable sign so as to mean the growth or continuity in 
service, diseases, litigations, borrowings, consumption of medicines, 
success, costumes and food etc. 


Rahu is in Aslesha star ruled by Mercury. So Rahu would presume 
the planetary significations of Mercury, as lord of houses 5" & 8th 
and as resident in the 12% house, besides the house significations of 
5, 8& 12 in the 6" house, as Rahu resides in the 6* bhava. 


Planetary significations of Mercury meant for the 5m house: 
Singers, famous actors, stage speakers, teachers of arts/vedas, visual 
artists, sculpturers, musical instrumentalists and commission agents. 


Planetary significations of Mercury meant for the 8m house: 
Forged cheques and documents, litigations of assets, disconnections 
im power and telephones, negotiations, signatures of accountability, 
unsigned letters, mix-up of messages, absent-minded, lack of 
meaningful thoughts and neuro disorders. 


394 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Planetary significations of Mercury meant for the12” house: 
Invention of sensitive instruments through secret research, secret 
notes and accounts, statement of income and expenditure, 
agreements, adulterations, photographs and documents etc., 


The house significations of 5, 8 & 1 1 in the 6 house are: 


(1) Service as a share broker, preacher of rehgious texts, pimps, 
proof-reader for writings about stories, poems, art essays, 
politics and worker in the manufacture of sports goods and 
at auditoriums, registrar offices for love marriages, prostitution 
dens, halls for vulgar dancing, bars and places of religious rites. 


(1) Hard labour with heavy work load, disgraceful jobs, jobs 
lacking in service amenities, repairing of old goods, lowly 
jobs with poor working conditions and slavery etc., 


(11) Obtaining loans through secret plans, repayment of loans 
through fresh loans, getting back Jost things and due returns 
on investments, getting medical treatment in hospital, 
separated person pursuing us again, break-even in income 
and expenditure and losing body functions through ill-health etc. 


KETU 


Ketu is in Capricorn sign and in the 12" house. Capricorn is an 
earthy sign. This means undue expenditure for the cause of 
relationship and affection and making research attempts in 
meaningful ways. 


As Capricorn is a movable sign, Ketu would lead to growth in 
secret activities, expenses, losses, investments, comforts in travel, 
sexual pleasures, sleep and failure of organs in the body. 


Ketu is in the star of Shravana ruled by the planet Moon, which is 
the lord of the 6h house and resident of the 2nd house. So Ketu 
would act according to the planetary significations of 2nd & 6th of 
Moon and the bhava significations of 2 & 6 in 12™house. 


IT house significations of Mooi: Frequent income, clear speech 
and orator, consultant in financial companies, quick acts through 
money, pearl ornaments and silver articles etc., 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Residential Position of Planets 395 


VI house significations of Moon: Weakness, labours in dams, ship 
workers, fishermen, plumbers, water-related diseases and labourers 
in agricultural fields etc., 


The house significations of 2nd & 6m houses in the t2" house are: 


(i) Getting back what was given, eye defects, digestion related diseases, 
making investments in gold articles and secret monetary income. 


(ii) Success through secret means, losing consciousness through 
allergic food intake, transfers in job as desired, servant leaving, 
inability to identify disease and low success potential in enterprises. 


In the above manner, with their general and the stellar potentials, 
the planets would render results for the native during their Dasa, 
Bhukthi, Anthara and Sookshamia periods as per their planetary 
and house significations. 


396 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


2 


Kaalchakra Principles 
Applied to 
Dashas, BhuKtis etc.... 


In this chapter, we are going to study about the significance of 
applying the concept of Kaalchakra to Dasha, Bhukthi and Antharaa 
periods. There are several kinds of Dashas prescribed in the classical 
texts. Some of the important ones are introduced here. 


1. Maha Dasha (Vimsothari Dasas) 


These Dasha period calculations are based on starlord of the natal 
Moon. Those born with Moon in Aswant. Makha and Moola stars 
have Ketu Dasha as their first Dasha. The length of this Dasha 
extends to a maximum of 7 years. Similarly those born in other 
stars and their respective maximum durations are tabulated below: 


S.No. Birth Star Dasha Duration 
at Birth in Years 
1. Aswani, Makha and Moola Ketu 7 
2 Bharani, Poorvapalguni and 
Poorvashada Venus 20) 
3% Krittiga, Uttarapalguni and 
Uttarashada Sun 6 
4. Rohini, Hastha and Shravana Moon 10 
5 Mrigashira, Chithra and 
Dhanishta Mars 7 
6. Arudra, Swathi and 
Sathabisham Rahu 18 


7. Punarvasu, Vishakha and 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Dashas, Bhuktis, etc.... 397 


Poorvabadra Jupiter 16 
8. Pushya, Anuradha and 

Uttarabadra Saturn 19 
9. Aslesha, Jyeshta and Revathi Mercury 17 


The sum total of all the Dashas works out to 120 years. Though all 
tne traditional texts have directed the same durations and sequence 
of Dashas, they all are silent about the basis of this division. 


These Maha Dashas are quite long, the shortest 1s being as much 

as 6 years. But in our daily lives, we observe diverse types of 
happenings taking place. To explain this, our seers have made fiirther 
subdivisions of Maha Dashas which are called Bhuktis. The ratio 
of dividing the time allotted to each Bhukti within a Maha Dasha is 
exactly the same as tabulated above. One may go deeper to 
subdivide Bhukti as well, to further levels , named as Antara and 
then each Antara to Sookshma, etc. 


2. Prana Dasha 

Prana Dasha is worked out from the natal Sun Star. ! 
3.Lagna Dasha 

It is the Dasha arrived at from the natal Lagna (Ascendant) star. 
4.Niraayana Dasha 

Ths Dasha is calculated from the natal Saturn star. 

5. Urpanna Dasha 


Urpanna Dasha period is deduced using the sixth star counted from 
the birth Moon star. For example, if a person is born in Aswani 
star ruled by Ketu, his Urpanna Dasha will be (Arudra) Rahu as it 
is the sixth one counted from the birth star. 


6. Mridhyu Dasha 


Just as explained under Urpanna Dasha, Mridhyu Dasha is the 
Dasha of the third star from the natal Moon star. 


7. Aad nana Dasha 
Aadhana Dasha is of the eighth star from the natal Sun star. 


398 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


8. Vaama Dasha 


It is the Dasha arrived of the twenty-fifthstar or the fourth star in 
reverse from the natal Sun star. 


9. Udu Dasha 


This Dasha is arrived at by identifying the respective star in which the 
sum of the ephemeris of the natal Sun and the natal Moon falls. 


10. Maha Prana Dasha 


This Dasha is arrived at by identifying the respective star in which 
the sum of the ephemiris of the Lagna, natal Sun and the natal 
Moon fall. 


11. Kaalchakra Dasha 


To the Aries and Scorpio borns it 1s 7 years of Mars Dasha. To 
Taurus and Libra boms, it is Venus Dasha, for 16 years. To Gemini 
and Virgo borns, it is Mercury Dasha for 19 years. For Cancer 
borns, it is Moon Dasha for 21 years. For Leo borns, Sun Dasha 
runs for 5 years. Sagittarius and Pisces borns have Jupiter Dasha 
of 10 years while for Capricorn and Sagittarius borns, Saturn 
Dasha for 4 years. Again, as is in the case of Mahadasha. there is 
no reference available about the basis of ratio employed in fixing 
these periods. Further, there is a completely different methodology 
adopted for calculating Kaalchakra Bhukthies which uses right- 
oriented or the left-oriented stars, etc. 


Also there are some other varieties of Dashas which are mentioned 
in the traditional texts. 


As written in the theory of "Survival of the fittest" by the popular 
scientist Darwin, most of these Dasha calculations have withered 
away either due to their complexity or probably due to their 
irrelavance to this modern time. The days, months and the years 
are arrived at in accordance with the Lagna, the Moon and the 
Sun or the rotation of earth aboutJts axis or the rotation of Moon 
around earth or the rotation of earth around the Sun. So the Lagna 
Dasha, Prana Dasha and the Maha Dasha may be more relevant 
to our present day. The confusion further surmounts as, for Lagna 
Dasha, there are more than one method to determine it. The 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Dashas, Bhuktis, etc.... 399 


extensive use of Maha Dasha ratio to the starlords of lagna in 
Lagna Dasha or to the starlords of Sun in Prana Dasha is 
meaningless unless we are sure about the fundamentals regarding 
application of this ratio. Hence, we are left with no other option but 
to accept the popular "Maha Dasha". 


According to Prof. K.S. Krishnamoorthy, Fate is the origin of 
thoughts. Moon is the actual executor of thoughts or events. 
According to me, only the concurrency of moment of the origin of 
thoughts (i.e., Lagna) and a favourable Moon, is responsible for 
an event to take place. That is why it is always advisable to study 
the potentiality of an event, giving full cognizance to all the twelve 
houses and the Dasha period using the Maha Dasha system, which 
is ascertained from the natal Moon position. 


Now we refer to illustration chart of the chapter on Kaalchakra 
Principles Applied to Residential Position of Planets. 


Sun is in Jupiter star Poorvabadra in first bhava. So during its Dasha, 
Sun would act to render the significations of its starlord, Jupiter, 
which itself is the lord of houses 2 and 11 and resident of twelfth 
bhava. Under the circumstances, Sun would give the results of the 
significations of houses 2, 11 and 12. 


The sigmifications of 2, 11 and 12 would mean the followings to 
each and every bhava. 


Cusp Bhavas as counted from Nature of Result 
the cusp under observation 

] 2, lland 12 Unfavourable 

II 1, 10 and 11 Favourable 

HI 12, 9and 10 Neutral 

IV 11,8and9 Neutral 

V 10, 7and 8 Unfavourable 

VI 9, 6and 7 Neutral 

Vil 8, 5and6 Unfavourable 

Vill 7,4and 5 Untavourable 

IX 6,3 and4 Neutral 

X 5, 2and 3 Highly favourable 

XI 4, land2 Favourable 

X11 3, 12and1 Favourable 

400 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


A planet will carry out the significations ofits starlord more on 
the basis of its actual residentship in the chart at the time of 
birth than the starlord’ actual ownerships. 


The triangle houses (i.e., the trigonasthanas), the houses of 1, 5and 
9 to any house are highly favourable. The houses 2, 3 and 11, (the 
vrithisthanas) would be favourable to a limited extent The houses 
4,8 and 12 are highly unfavourable. The houses 6, 7and 10 would 
remain neutral. But more complex situations arise when 
combinations of different characters appear together. For instance, 
the II house, a vrithisthana, the VIII house, the house of danger 
and the VI house the house of neutrality jointly appear as the 
significations of a particular planet. We should not hastily jump on 
to a conclusion that a highly favourable house would nullity the 
demerits of a highly unfavourable house. These combined 
significations are notthe mixtures of energy but are the compounds 
of synergy. Also we should not opt to decide on the number-wise 
majonty of nature within the list of significations. We must understand 
that each and every combination of significations bears a different 
interpretation. 


Dasha designates strength of potentialities of different attributes in 
one's life during a particular phase. In the example chart, we 
demonstrate the derivation of predictions for Sun Dasha. Houses 
2, 11 and 2 would mean an unfavourable combination to Ascendant. 
On one side it would enhance the financial capabilities, being 1, 10 
and 11 to the II house, the house of finance while bringing trouble in 
the family life, as it is 5th, Gin and 8 house to the VII house. 6 years 
span of Sun Dasha would be characterized by an excellent 
materialistic life of the native along side not so good personal life. 


The details of events could be drawn with the appropriate use of 
principles of links. The method of using the principles of combinations 
have been detailed in my previous books, "The Principles of Cuspal 
Interlinks" and "The Applications of Cuspal Interlinks" (Vol 1&2). 


Bhukti periods mean the mind or native's current involvement in a 
set of particular fields, as permitted by the Dasha either favourably 
or unfavourably. Here the Sun Bhukti enhances its significations of 
2, 11 and 12 in a more pronounced manner. 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Dashas, Bhuktis, etc.... 401 


A Bhukthi is always subservient to its Dasha. It cannot overrule 
Dasha potential. For example, the Sun Dasha has the significations 
of houses 2, 1 !and 12. The Moon Bhukthi has the potential of the 
12" house signification, as it is disposed in the Aswani star which is 
ruled by Ketu, located tn 12th house. The overall life, financial 
position and quality of married life of the native would be influenced 
more by the 12* honse significations of Moon. In his personal and 
married life, this Bhukthi would bring 111-effects; and in the financial 
life, it would induce the native to make more investments. 


Likewise, if we further consider the anthara period, during Sun 
antharaa, the communications, negotiations and agreements towards 
improving the financial status would bring expected favours. 


But let ns take the case of Mars anthara in Moon Bhukthi of Sun 
Dasha. Mars is in its own star Dhanishta and is the ruler of the 
houses 3 and 10 to Aquarius while being the resident of 12" house. 
So the houses 3, 10 and 12 would act alongwith the combination 
already indicated by the Dasha and the Bhukti. This will boost 
native's financial positon (anthara's 3 is favourable to the Dasha's 
2). Moreover, lack of fulfillment of desires (anthara's 10 becomes 
unfavourable to the Dasha’s 11) and involvement in making 
investments (12 remains fhe same) for the native will be prime 
characteristics during Mars anthara. 


Antharaa cannot overrule the Bhukthi just as the Bhukthi cannot 
overrule Dasha. Dasha goes along with the birth potential. (Please 
refer PN. 16 and 1.7 of my book "Secrets of RP and the Birth Time", 
published by Krishman and Co. » Chennai). 


Besides the above discussion, there are few other items worth being 
taken care of. 

Sun is in a fixed sign, the Aquarius. The course of the Dasha 
significations would almost remain permanent. 


Aquarius also happens fo be an airy sign, the Dasha significations 
would fly at a faster speed with economic motives usually 
byepassing grace, love and affection. 


402 Astrolegics of kaalchakra 


Since, it is the | thhouse of Kaalchakra, the sources would mostly 
be friends, elder brothers, sons-in law, daughters-in law, happy 
occasions and entertainments. 


The bhava or the house significations of Sun (2,11 and 12) are 
derived from its starlord Jupiter. However, in the present case, 
there is no planet transiting Sun's star. This causes Sun to grant the 
results through its own planetary significations e.g., government 
officials, political means or generosity of persons bora in its own 
stars 1.e., Krittiga, Uttarapalguni and Uttarashada etc. 


In the same way, during Moon bhukthi, as the planet Moon is ina 
fiery and movable Sign, it would lead to more activeness towards 
investments (the significations of the 12" house). 


On the same analogy, during Mars Anthara, the investments would 
be with a greater speed and also with a human touch on account of 
Mars residing in a movable and earthy sign. 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Dashas, Bhuktis, etc..:. 403 


3 


Kaalchakra Principles 
Applied to ‘Transit 


Transit is yet another and an extremely important dimension of 
predictive astrology. Natal chart itself is only a transit chart at 
the time of birth. The pundits of astrology depend heavily on 
transits while giving predictions. This is also evident from the 
fact that there are so many publications available in the market 
today detailing minutely the consequence of transits of Saturn, 
Jupiter or the Lunar Nodes in different signs and houses. But 
these predictions are manifested only when the native runs the 
corresponding Dasha, Bhukti, Anthara, Sookshma periods. 


Even in the case of a particular Dasha period, if we forget 
applying the logics of Kaalchakra, we may go wrong in our 
interpretations. Let us consider an example. Saturn takes about 
30 years to complete a full transit of the Zodiac. It can therefore, 
not transit all the 12 signs in its Dasha period of 19 years. Saturn 
is the lord of the VIII house to Gemini and Cancer borns. It 
may transit its own star up to maximum of two times during 
this period. It would reside in its own star for about I3 months 
during which Sun; the monthly planet will transit at least 3 times 
in Saturn stars, 1.¢e., for approximately 40 days in all. In the 
mean time, the day planet Moon will transit the stars of Saturn 
for about 4 times in this period. Does that mean that the Gemini 
or Cancer borns are to meet with same kind of accidents atleast 
four times in a row and that too within a period of 13 months? 
The readers will agree that this is an absolutely incorrect 
deduction. 


404 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


In our example chart (given in the chapter Kaalchakra Principles 
Applied to Residential Position of Planets) let us study the 
outcome of Sun Dasha by way of transit. Sun is in the I bhava. 
It is in Jupiter star, which is lord of houses 2 and I1 and resident 
of the 12" house. So the planet Sun has the linkage to 2, I1 and 
12 through its starlord. What about the significations of the 
remaining 9 houses? Will it influence through the remaining 
houses to the native? Sun is the karaka planet for bones. Bones 
constitute the structure and are part of every organ in the body. If 
Sun is linked only to these 3 houses, what would happen to the 
bones in the remaining organs of the concerned houses. This is 
exactly where the importance of transit of planets come in to picture. 


Sun, with its natal potential of significations of houses 2, I] 
and 12 would transit in all the 9 stars in 4 months. To elucidate 
the approach of applying the logics of transit, let us study the II 
house karaka of Sun in our example chart. The results are 
tabulated in the following. 


House Starlord of Result of Sun transiting 
the House such Star 


I Rahu Native uses his income for himself 

II Mercury Native converts hquid cash into jewels 

Ii Venus Increase and stabilization of flow of income 
through valuable documents 

IV Moon Native multiplies his sources of income 

V Rahu Native spends his money on entertainment 

VI Mercury Native lends his money as loans to others 

Wn sCVeenus Native keeps his money in the personal 
custody of others 

VU Moon Native's money remains as outstanding 

IX Rahu Native faces financial difficulties 

xX Mercury high turnover of money in Native's 
profession 

XI Venus Enables the native to have cash in hand 

a Moon Induces the native to invest his money in 
profession 


Raalchakra Principles Applied to Transits 405 


These are all academic deductions. In real terms, however, the 
transit of Sun would not be as simple as this. The reason is that, 
it has got combined signification of houses 2, 11 and 12. 


lf Sun transits in the star of the 9n house, the combined 
significations of houses 2, 11 and 12 would mean a different 
thing to the native. For 2nd house, transit in the star of the 9* 
house would not be favourable. For 11" house, Sun favourably 
transits in the 11™ house to the 11" honse (i.e., the 9* house) 
and for the 12* house it transits in its 10*, to show the neutral 
linkage. The results would vary accordingly. 


During the course of its Dasha, Sun would transit about 6 times 
in every star and at least 18 times in the group of stars of the 
same lord. In the example chart, Mrigasira, Chithra and 
Dhanishta are the stars of Mars, the lord of houses 3 and 10 and 
resident of the 12* bhava. Sun would transit in a Mars star 
every four months. Will it render the same set of results to the 
native each time? Certainly not. Again it is the principles of 
Kaalchakra that distinguish them. 


When Sun transits in the star of Mrigasira (of Gemini) it renders 
a different set of results from those shown up while it transits 
same star-lordship in the previous sign (Taurus). Taurus being 
a fixed sign will grant a higher percentage of permanency in 
results whereas Gemmi as a common sign, would offer more 
fluctuations. This way the nature of motion, the elements, the 
planets and the house of Kaalchakra at the time of transit would 
lay their influence in deciding the courses of the events. 


The transit routine of all the planets 1s also fixed at the very 
time of birth of the native alongwith natal potential and the 
potential of the Dasha, Bhukti, Anthara, Sookshma (DBAS) 
periods. Marriage and the character of the spouse are assured in 
the natal potential. The period of marriage could be determined 
by identifying the corresponding DBAS periods. But the other 
shades of the event, like venue, menu in the feast, dance, music, 
number of guests, gifts, joy arid happiness and the decorations 
may be studied only with the transit of the appropriate planets. 


408 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Transit of Sun would be influenced by the transit or the 

respective positioning of the remaining six planets and the nodes. 
Transit results are team work of the planets put together. In our 

example chart, let us presume that the native is running Sun 

Dasha. Imagine that the native is a cricketer and is playing a 

cricket match during Sun Dasha, Mars Bhukthi, Rahu Antharaa, 
Jupiter Sookshama, Saturn Prana on a Mercury star day which 
falls on a Friday. Here we may study the transit of all these 

seven planets for identifying the pattern of performance of the 

native on that particular day. The bowlers, the composition of 
the opposite team, umpires, venue, partners while batting, runs 

scored in singles, twos, threes, boundaries, sixers, the LBW 

appeals faced, the balls that beat the bat, the catches offered, 

the catches dropped and catches taken as a fielder, the bowling 

statistics like the wide balls, no balls, runs given away in his 

over, wickets taken, appeals made, end at which he is batting or 

bowling, balls stopped and the balls missed by a fielder etc., 

cannot be studied either from the natal potential or from the 

DBAS potential. These particulars may only be deciphered 

through an appropriate use of transit. May be, one or two of 
these planets have the potential to affect native's performance 

on that particular day. All the planetary effects, whether negative 
or positive, will have to gain their sources from their respective 
transits only. 


Transit, on its own has no power or authority to change the 
course of an event. When planets tend to act for the schedule of 
the natal chart in their respective DBAS periods, they produce 
colours as per their respective transits and for the same, the 
principles of Kaalchakra work. Study of a horoscope can be 
considered complete in scientific terms only if it is done by 
correlating all the three factors of predictive astrology—natal 
potential, the current DBAS periods and the current transit of 
relevant planets..- 


Raalchakra Principles Applied to Transits 407 


4 


Kaalchakra Principles 
Applied to 
Cuspal Interlinks 


Majority of KP/KB followers can understand and follow the 
theory of Cuspal Interlinks. Those pursuing Vakya System 
consider the sign of Ascendant. In Drik System the Ascendant 
and other houses are identified using Bhava Maddhima (centre). 
In KP/KB System, wherein Newcombe Ayanamsa is used, 
Placidus System of cuspal division is adopted. In Placidus 
System, the houses are identified with their respective Sign, 
Star, Bhukthi (Kaalamsa or the sub) and the Antharaa (the 
subsub). 


The cusps or the houses vary in consonance with the changes in 
the latitudes and longitudes of the birth-places alongwith the 
time. So a minor difference in time (even a few seconds) affects 
so as to make every birth a unique event! 


KB's theory of cuspal interlinks moves a step forward in 
identifying interlinks of the bhava beginnings or the cuspal 
points. These interlinks are mainly of two types. The first type 
involves identifying the cusps to which the starlord of the sublord 
of a particular house is the cuspal sublord to ensure the strength 
and the potential of that particular house. The second type 
involves identifying the planets, which are in the stars of the 
sublord of the particular house for finding the favourable periods 
of events of that particular house. 


408 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Whenever an exercise to decipher an attribute is taken up under 
the KB system of astrology, first of all, the inherent strength of 
the horoscope is examined from the point of view of the same. 
We call this as ‘potential’ of the horoscope. Then the favourable 
period (DBAS) is established during which an event concerning 
the attribute under examination is likely: Finally the precise 
element of time is earmarked within the selected DBAS where 
the transit agrees. 


In this entire process, the principles of Kaalchakra become very 
relevant to KB followers. The order of importance to a planet 
is: its role as sublord to cusps, subsublords to cusps, starlords 
to cusps and the bhava occupied at the time of birth. 


Moon is the owner of the sign Cancer, a watery and movable 

sign. In each horoscope there would be at least one house 

wherein the Moon will be sigmficant. In one third of the 

horoscopes, Moon would be starlord of at least one or two houses 
and would seldom be sublord or subsublord to more than four 

houses. But Moon becoming significant for four or five houses 

would be possible only in KP/KB astrology. In addition, Moon 

as a sublord or subsublord of houses, could make a unique 

combination of all the four elements (fire, earth, water and wind). 
It is basically a watery planet and if it happens to be the sub or 

subsub lord of the VIII house, a fiery sign, the native faces 

dangers to his life caused by boiled water. On the same analogy, 
if it happens to be an earthy sign, the native faces dangers to his 

life caused by the landslides caused by heavy rains. Thus, the 

basic karaka of the planet changes according to the basic karaka 
of the sign. 


Take the case of an air accident. Rahu is the karaka planet for 
aeroplanes, Speaking from potential point of view, all the 
passengers taking the same flight are likely to face death during 
air travel, yet in the same accident, all of them may not die due 
to the same reason. Rahu as an airy planet with its ownership 
as sublord or subsublord of the VIII cuspal points, of fiery, earthy, 
watery, etc. sign in the respective charts of each passenger, brings 
death to them in a way typical to these four elements, one by one. 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Cuspal Interlinks 409 


For example, let us consider the case of the noble death of 
astronaut Smt. Kalpana Chawla. 


(i) She died while she was rendering her 

professional service :6 
(ii) It is a noble sacrifice for the cause of mankind : | & 10 
(iii) She is the only women astronaut of 


Indian. origin—an achievement >: 1& 11 
(iv) She was of Indian origin but an American Citizen 
:1& 1 


(v) She was part of a noble group of astronauts : 1&7 
(vi) The event took place in the course 


of retum journey : 1&3 
(vii) The space venture is research oriented 79 & 12 
(viii) The space vehicle was also destroyed 

and damaged in the accident :4& 11 
(ix) It happened unexpectedly :1&8 
(x) The space vehicle lost communication :2&8 


(xi) She was traveling in the space vehicle with the 

fastest, at a maximum speed of all the vehicles : 1 & 5 
This shows that all the 12 bhavas carry linkages. Similarly, the 
planets: 


(i) She represented a nation : Sun 
(ii) She was in the company of fellow astronauts : Mercury 
Gi) The journey was adventurous =: Mars 
(iv) The journey was for global research : Jupiter 
(v) The journey was on a scientific research : Saturn 
(vi) She was with people belonging to 


foreign origins : Rahu 
(vil) The accident was cruel : Ketu 
(viii) The spacecraft fell in a sea : Moon 
(ix) Karaka planet for space craft (Vehicle) : Venus 


= ee ee ee eee eee ee eee 


410 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


Again, all the 9 planets carry linkages. 
(i) The accident was on the return course to 

the earth : Earth 
(ii) It was caused by the hquid fuel : Water 
(ii) It happened while entering the atmosphere: Air 
(iv) The vehicle got burnt to ashes : Fire 


Here all the four elements have linkages. 


(i) It was a retum journey : Common 
(11) The accident was caused by the inability to 

detach that part offuef mechanism . . ~. : Fixed 
(ili). 2... from the moving main space vehicle : Movable 


All the rules of motion are also shown up! 

Such justifications to this event is not possible using the 
traditional rules of 108 yogas and the same number of doshas. 
Only when the same planet hag a linkage either as sublord or as 
subsublord to all the 12 bhavas during the course of which it 
also establishes linkages with houses of all the four elements 
and the three kinds of motion, the event gets matured. At that 
time, the remaining eight planets are also bound to the said main 
planet, by residing in the star, sub or subsub of the main planet, 
either in natal chart or in transit. Thus a person becomes famous 
or notorious depending upon the domination of a planet in its 
hnkages to majority of cusps as lord of star or sub or subsub 
and also during the corresponding DBAS periods of the said 
planet. The cuspal strength of a chart could easily be assessed 
by observing the dominations of the current and the subsequent 
dasalords. (PI. refer PN 193 of Part II of my book, "Applications 
of Cuspal Interlnks", published by Mother Mera Publications, 
Madurai). 


In the Placidius system of cuspal division, two bhavas may fall 
in the same sign. Sometimes a single planet may become the 
owner to more than one house, unlike in the Vakya or Drik 
systems. Supposing if bhavas 1 and 2 fall in the same sign, say 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Cuspal Interlinks 411 


Leo, the person carries self-pride both in hits fiery behaviour 
and in his fiery speech. This is unique from the other Leo-borns. 
In most of the horoscopes in northern latitudes, one can easily 
find a single planet appearing as sublord or subsublord to more 
than two or three consecutive houses to add more complexity 
to impart a peculiar nature/temperament to the native. 


Imagine that the 5* cuspal sublord 1s Sun and it resides in the 
star of Moon and the sub of Mars. The potential of the 5 cusp 
depends upon the starlord Moon to be finally confirmed by the 
sublord Mars. 


(a) Suppose Moon is the cuspal sublord of the 4* house 
(12th to the 5") and Mars is the cuspal sublord of the 
3rd house (12th to the 4th and 11th to the 5"), the child 
birth is assured. 


(b) If however, Moon becomes the cuspal sublord of the 3x 
house and Mars becomes the sublord of the 4th house, 
then the possibility of pregnancy prior to marriage and 
subsequent abortion 1s indicated. 

Thus we can appropriately apply the principles of Kaalchakra 
along with cuspal interlinks. (Ref. PN 20 of my book on 


"Principles of Cuspal Interlinks" published by Sagar 
Publications, New Delhi). 


412 Astrologics of kaalchakra 


SCOPE FOR FURTHER WORK 


In the principles of Kaalchakra, the twelve signs denote 
everything under the Sun. The varied natures of these twelve 
signs are very much needed in the predictive part of astrology. 
For example, some of us show mterest in the field of politics 
and others in the fields of arts, culture, sports or games. But all 
these fields lie in the same bhava, the 5th house, the Leo sign in 
Zodiac. Few people have interest in more than one fields like 
Shri Navjoth Singh Siddhu, who ts a popular cricketer alongside 
an elected member of the Parliament. Similarly, some film 
personalities have drifted to politics, taking advantage of their 
glamour. Now, we have a question before us: how to distinguish 
between the involvement of a person in the fields of arts, culture, 
etc. and also in the field of sports. The answers to these questions 
could not easily be traced from our traditional texts, as they 
were basically framed to cater to the requirements of one- 
dimensional feudalistic society of Indian village community 
system. Due to the increasing divisions of labour and the 
evolution of multiple fields of professions in modern day life, 
we need to draw derivations from the basic principles of 
astrology to suit to everybody's requirements. Attempts to 
answer the astrological question of why a person hkes to play a 
particular game like cricket were tried by eminent astrologers 
in the past. To carry out such subtle, fine and hairsplitting 
analysis, the principles of Kaalchakra become handy. These 
principles could be extended to almost all walks of life. 
Everything in the world, from left to nght, from top to bottom 
like, the seeds, vegetables, trees, fruits, metals, coins, currency, 
cities, towns, professions, courses of education, diverse fields 
of arts and culture, sports, etc., are to be classified appropriately 
among the | 2 signs of zodiac. In this process of classification, I 
would like to quote a translated part from the article, 
"Kaalachakra and major cities of Tamil Nadu" by Shri. M. 
Parthiban, one of my students, m association with the KB Astro 
Research Centre, Madurai, pubhshed in the Tamil astrological 
monthly, Jothida Murasu, in its May 2004 issue: 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Cuspal Interlinks 413 


"Every town has a character; it is identified with one or 

two major things of importance. For example, take the 

case of the city of Madurai. It is an ancient city; it is a 

city of pilgrimage importance; the economy of this city 

depends much on tourism; at the centre of the city, the 

holy temple of Goddess Meenakshi is situated; the city 

is situated at the northern and the sourthern banks of 
the river Vaigai; the three schools of sangam poets of 
Tamil hailed from this city; the ancient Shiva temple is 

popularly worshipped as a holy place of Mercury. Now 

with the above karakas, we can try to evolve a suitable 

identification for this city in the Kaalchakra. Towns with 
pilgrimage and religious importance will fall in the 9th 

house of Kaalchakra, the sign Sagittarius. Sagittarius 

has three stars, Moola, Poorvashada and Uttarashada 

ruled respectively by Ketu, Venus and the Sun. Ketu 

would act like Mercury. So Moola star would be 

appropriate for Madurai. This Ketu star has four quarters. 
The third quarter falls m the navamsa owned by 

Mercury. So the city of Madurai falls in the I quarter 

of Moola star, ruled by Ketu. 


Those who are born in the stars of Ketu either as lord of 
the lagna or as the lord of the Moon may reside in this 
city; People who are running Ketu dasa would be able 
to live for some time or work in this city; People who 
are running Ketu Bhukthi would be able to study or 
undergo medical treatment at this city or marry someone 
from this city; People who are running Ketu Antharaa 
may undertake long and repeated visits to this town; 
People who are ruming Ketu Sookshama may visit this 
city. The purpose of study, living, tours, profession and 
other things would vary depending upon the respective 
cuspal significance gained by the planet Ketu in their 
natal charts and in transit." 


In the above manner my associate Shri S.Gnanasambandan has 
also made an attempt to study the karakas for the Sprint (sports). 


414 Astrologies of kaalchakra 


Shri Vigneshwer Raja, one of my students, had recently 
attempted to classify different academic courses of higher 
education. According to him, the study of medicines or the 
MBBS course would fall in the sixth sign of the Kaalchakra 
Virgo, as it is the house of medicines. The post graduate study 
of medicines would have to fall in the vrithisthanas, the sign 
Libra for Medicines (MD) and the sign Scorpio for surgery 
(MS). These findings were verified after studying quite a few 
horoscopes. 


Still, there remains a long way to go in this direction. This also 

calls for a coordinated, strong and dedicated teamwork. I pray 

for your assistance in this attempt. This will help in the much 

needed elimination of baseless superstitions from the field of 
astrology and restore its due glory. The ‘Principles of Kaalchakra’ 
laid down in this book is just a small step forward in this 

direction. 


Kaalchakra Principles Applied to Cuspal Interlinks 415 


