ASTROLOGY AND 
REINCARNATION 


BY 
MANLY P. HALL 


CONTENTS 


How TO READ YOUR PAST AND FUTURE LIVES......... 
ASTROLOGY AND REINCARNATION .................0 00 cee eee eee ed 


ASTROLOGY AND KARMA............. 00... ccccceeeeeeeeeee eee eee eenees 


HOW TO READ YOUR PAST 
AND FUTURE LIVES 


The science of astrology had its beginning with 
the most learned nations of antiquity. The first 
astrologers were priests and philosophers, who found 
no conflict between the principles of astrology and 
the sacred philosophical systems which, ancient his- 
torians agree, were first revealed to humanity by the 
gods. Thus astrology not only conforms with those 
universal laws which were the foundations of an- 
cient wisdom, but is also perfectly compatible with 
ancient standards of morality and ethics. 


Unfortunately, the philosophy of astrology finds 
few exponents in this modern age. Men, more in- 
terested in material fortune than the metaphysical 
mysteries of the soul, have ignored the more pro- 
found issues of the astral science. But Brahman 
sages in rock-hewn temples, Chaldean magi on their 
lofty ziggurats, and Egyptian priests in their stone 
observatories did not devote thousands of years to 
the perfection of astrology merely out of curiosity 
concerning their mundane affairs. To all these wise 
men, the mysteries of the heavens were a revelation 
of divine principles and divine will. The handwrit- 


(3) 


ing of stars on the wall of heaven was to them in 
the very language of the gods. 


The nations most given to astrological research 
also accepted the doctrine of the rebirth of human 
souls. Since these two important teachings, astrology 
and reincarnation, developed side by side, and the 
believers in the one teaching were also the expo- 
nents of the other, it is evident that no point of con- 
flict exists between the belief in rebirth and the 
science of the stars. 


The Hermetic philosophers, the wisest of the 
Egyptians, possessed a profound knowledge of both 
of these mysteries, as did also Pythagoras, Plato, and 
Aristutle, the noblest thinkers among the Greeks. 
The Druid priests of Britain and Gaul included both 
reincarnation and astrology among their secret teach- 
ings. These noble men, revered as among the wisest 
and most virtuous of mortals, could not have been 
party to ignorance or superstition. In these matters, 
then, we should consider their opinions with all 
seriousness. 


Among Oriental nations, the science of astrology 
and the doctrine of rebirth are still included to- 
gether in the philosophy of life. Old Hindu text- 
books on astrology, attributed to the saints and 
Rishis, contain hints and allusions to the method of 
determining past and future states of existence from 


(4) 


a natal horoscope. Among the lamas of Tibet, secret 
formulas, carefully guarded from the profane, are 
still used by astrologer-priests to determine the parts 
of the previous existence from the position of the 
stars at the beginning of this life. 

The problems which these Tibetan priests seek 
to solve are comprehended under three headings: 


1. The place of the spiritual entity among the 
nidanas, or the sequences of consequences, which 
cause the physical incarnation of the soul. 


2. The level or plane of consciousness in which 
the entity functioned prior to its present life, which 
contributes the moral force to the present existence. 

3. Such details and circumstances of the previous 
existence as may account for the karma, or processes 
of retribution, which are at work in the present ex- 
istence. 


In addition to these, a horoscope may be erected 
for the moment of death by which the future state 
of the soul or entity is estimated. 

Altogether, this part of astrology is concerned 
with that larger theater of action of which the pres- 
ent life is but a fragment. To all philosophic peo- 
ples, man's present state is the result of previous 
life and action. To understand this, is to discover the 
cause of present conditions. Asiatic astrologers have 
practiced this part of the science for thousands of 


(5) 


years, and their findings should be of interest to 
Western students of astrology. 


The principle behind the Bhava Chakra (Cycle 
of Transmigratory Existence) recorded on the ceil- 
ing of the Lamaist monastery at Sik-kim is entirely 
astrological. The outer circle of the figure is di- 
vided into 12 parts which are termed the nidanas, or 
the causes, that move the soul to rebirth. These 
nidanas are the 12 zodiacal signs, each one of which 
contains within it an impulse to action or, as the 
ancients termed it, a cause of contact. 


The first nidana, under Aries, is called the un- 
conscious will. It is represented by a blind man, and 
signifies the soul passing from death to rebirth. 


The second nidana, under Taurus, is called con- 
formation, and is represented by a potter and his 
pots signifying the soul shaping the materials of the 
mental and physical natures. 


The third »idana,under Gemini, is called the con- 
scious will, and is typified by the restlessness of the 
monkey. It signifies the rise of conscious experience 
in the soul. 


The fourth nidana, under Cancer, called self-con- 
sciousness, is represented by a ship containing man, 
woman, and animals, and signifies the rise of the 
quality of individuality. 


(6) 


The fifth nidunu, under Leo, is represented by an 
empty house, and signifies the development of the 
sensory perceptions. 

The sixth nidana, under Virgo, is a figure repre- 
senting marriage, and signifies the focusing of the 
sense perceptions upon exterior objects. 

The seventh nidanu, under Libra, is represented 
by a figure with an arrow in its eye, and signifies 
the illusions of pain and pleasure and their reaction 
upon the soul. 

The eighth niduna, under Scorpio, is called desire, 
and is involved in the experiences of gratification. 

The ninth niduna, under Sagittarius, is termed 
indulgence, and is represented by a man collecting 
fruit into a basket. It signifies attachment to world- 
ly possessions. 

The tenth nidana, under Capricorn, represents 
maturity, and signifies the fullness of material ex- 
istence brought to its highest philosophical level. 

The eleventh nidana, under Aquarius, is compen- 
sation represented by the birth of a son. This signi- 
fies the paying of all debts to nature and final de- 
tachment therefrom. 

The twelfth nidana, under Pisces, shows the dead 
body being carried to the grave. lt signifies decay 
of all points of contact by which the life is held to 
the material state. 


(7) 


After the twelfth, the first begins again, and so 
on through all the cycles of existence. The nidanas, 
of course, represent the dominating consciousness or 
the place of the spiritual self in the great cycle of 
progress. While our little life has its birth, growth, 
maturity and decay, so many hundreds of these lives 
form together a greater cycle involving a vast process 
of life moving through its several stages. 


By the position of the sun, the nidana is de- 
termined; and by the Ascendant, the subdivision of 
the nidana is ascertained. Thus, a person born with 
the sun in Pisces is born to the experience of detach- 
ment, for he is bringing a cycle of experience to an 
end. A person born with the sun in Scorpio is born 
under the eighth nidana, and the sole purpose of 
his existence is to experience the consequences of 
greed, personality, and possession. 


The Ascendant of the horoscope represents a 
minor cycle of experience with a great one. It quali- 
fies and specializes the general significance. For ex- 
ample, the fifth nidana, or Leo, is an externalizing 
of the sensory power and generally manifests as 
ambition. If the Ascendant is in the third nidana, 
or Gemini, representing the effort to establish in- 
dividual sufficiencies, it qualifies the major factor 
and denotes that the ambitions will be of an intel- 
lectual or mental nature. By calculations based upon 


(8) 


this arrangement, the primary purpose of the soul's 
incarnation is established. In application, it is gen- 
erally found that this purpose more or less dominates 
the individual in whose horoscope it is indicated. 

In the Tibetan monastery figure, the central part 
of the design, representing the world or, more ex- 
actly, the conditions of consciousness which together 
make up the world, is divided into six parts. In the 
painting, these parts or panels are filled with elabo- 
rate designs setting forth the condition of souls in 
various levels or degrees of spiritual development. 

The six compartments of the circle are divided 
into an upper and lower hemisphere of three com- 
partments each. The upper hemisphere represents 
the three nobler states of being which are denomi- 
nated in degrees of excellence: (1) the world of 
the gods; (2) the world of the Titans or heroes; 
(3) the world of men. Together these three parts 
depict the happy states of consciousness which are 
the reward of good karma—that is, lives of noble 
thought and action. 

The three compartments of the lower hemisphere 
of the circle depict the miseries resultant from bad 
karma, or destructive thought, emotion, and action. 
The three compartments are named _ respectively: 
(1) the world of animals; (2) the world of ghosts; 
(3) the world of hells or spheres of violent retri- 
bution. 


(9) 


oo 


In each of these six parts of the world is also de- 
picted a form of the Buddha symbolizing the uni- 
versal enlightenment, which regenerates and _ pre- 
serves evolving souls in all the spheres of being. 


The sun, of course, represents the Buddha, the 
power of diffused illumination. The solar energy, 
distributed through the natural creation, is the uni- 
versal source of the impulse toward light and truth. 


The six compartments through which the sun's 
light shines pertain to the other major bodies of the 
solar system known to the old astrologers. The world 
of the gods is the sphere of Jupiterian consciousness; 
that of the Titans, Martial consciousness; that of 
human beings, Mercurial consciousness. These plan- 
ets, therefore, dominate the upper hemisphere of the 
sphere of consciousness. Venus represents animal 
consciousness; the moon, the imaginative conscious- 
ness, termed the world of ghosts; and Saturn, the 
retribution consciousness or the karmic hells. 


In the East, it is taught that each soul coming in- 
to material life enters from one of the six compart- 
ments of the Wheel of the Law. Astrologically, the 
rule for determining the origin of the soul's present 
life cycle is as follows: 

Examine the horoscope and discover whether the 
sun or the moon is the stronger. Determine this 
from position, dignity, and aspect. Then observe in 


(10) 


which decanate the more powerful luminary is 
placed. Find the ruler of this decanate according 
to ordinary astrological practice, and the ruler of the 
decanate shall signify the sphere of consciousness, or 
Lokas, from which the soul came into birth. Next 
examine the position of the planet which is ruler of 
the decanate as to its dignity, position, aspect, ete. 
From this determine the quality of the previous life. 
If the ruler of the decanate enjoys dignity and high 
position, the same would be true of the previous life 
of the native. If it is afflicted, cadent, or ill-placed, 
the previous state’ of the life was lowly or unfor- 
tunate. 


A similar system is practiced by the Brahmans. 
They consider only four worlds, but the method of 
determining this important matter is identical in 
both systems. 


In astrology, the sign ascending on the eastern 
angle of the heavens at the moment of birth is the 
general significator of the present incarnation, and 
the entire horoscope is read from this Ascendant, 
and all the testimonies of the chart are blended 
with the fundamental keynote of this ascending sign. 
The zodiacal sign upon the cusp of the 12th house 
may be termed the preceding sign to the Ascendant, 
and the zodiacal sign upon the cusp of the 2nd house 
may be termed the succeeding sign from the Ascend- 


(11) 


ant As the Ascendant signifies the present state of 
the evolving soul, the cusp of the 12th house be- 
comes the significator of the life previous to the 
present one, and the sign upon the cusp of the 2nd 
house, the next incarnation after the present one. 
The rule 1s that angular houses signify the present 
life, succedent houses the next life to come, and 
cadent houses the previous life and its karma. 


If, then, we move the horoscope sufficiently to 
bring the 12th house cusp to the Ascendant, we can 
then read the horoscope as the nativity of the pre- 
vious life. Ordinarily the 12th house of the horo- 
scope is termed the house of self-undoing, in that 
it reveals the fundamental weaknesses of character 
which undermine the probability of present success. 
The term self-undoing is identical in meaning with 
karma, or the accumulation of past actions which 
overshadow present conditions. This accumulation 
is carried forward from life to life until all weak- 
nesses are overcome and final perfection is achieved. 

It naturally follows that whatever zodiacal sign 
dominates the present life of the individual, the 
sign previous to it signifies the karma brought for- 
ward from the past. The positions of the ruler of 
that sign and planets in the 12th house reveal the 
circumstances of the previous existence, the prob- 
able place and time of the previous birth, and the 
general circumstances of that existence. 


(12) 


The sign Aries ascending indicates Pisces to have 
dominated the previous existence. Aries, the first 
sign of the zodiac, is the beginning of a new cycle 
of experience. Aries people have come into this life 
from a previous existence of limitation, responsi- 
bility, and bondage. Their present life is therefore 
a release, and they move forward, dominated by 
strong ambition and enthusiasm. 


If Taurus is ascending, they have brought for- 
ward the impulse of the previous Arian existence. 
Most Taurians bring forward attitudes of Aries, and, 
beneath their artistic surface, emotional fires bear 
witness to the militancy of their previous incarna- 
tion. 


When Gemini ascends, we find beneath the in- 
tellectual attitude the karmic pressure of Taurus. 
The superficiality of the Gemini temperament is evi- 
dent throughout this country, which is strongly Mer- 
curial. Yet, under the general intellectual surface of 
the nation is a powerful and despotic economic force 
that is a distinct Taurian hangover. 


When Cancer ascends, Gemini lurks in the back- 
ground. Cancer people are subject to the distorted 
imaginations of a negative and uncontrolled Mer- 
cury. It is hard for Cancer people to be natural and 
relaxed, for behind them is a life lived under the 
influence of a negative Mercury agitating the in- 


(13) 


tellect by a complex of opinions and fears that are 
too often allowed to grow into Facts. 


When Leo is ascending, there is generally a 
strength complex arising out of the weakness of the 
previous life. For this reason, Leo people are apt to 
be egotistic and power-loving, building a positive 
outward front to protect a very sensitive, emotional, 
imaginative, subjective nature held over from the 
Cancer influence. 


When Virgo is ascending, there is a subconscious 
repentance in the soul. The previous life was under 
the forceful, dominating influence of Leo. The Leo 
incarnation revealed the emptiness and vainness of 
authority, and the native is born into Virgo with a 
strong tendency to the simple life. Virgo is a sign 
of atonement, and the individual has the impulse to 
help a world which he probably tyrannized in the 
previous life. Deep inside themselves many people 
have rather a definite Leo superiority complex and 
a tendency to boss. 


When Libra ascends, the individual brings into 
life Virgo karma. The people of Virgo have a tend- 
ency to lean and depend, and this weakness comes 
forward in Libra as a sense of internal insufficiency 
The Libra native is of an artistic, somewhat irri- 
table, delicate temperament. He has strong vanity 
arising out of his Virgo repentance. 


(14) 


When Scorpio ascends, the strong emotional pow- 
er of the previous life combines its force with the 
fiery nature of this sign. Libra is artistic and emo- 
tional with a tendency to melancholy. Scorpio in- 
tensifies these qualities, giving also depth and or- 
ganization to the thought. The self-gratification of 
Libra is the natural foundation for the powerful 
ambitions of Scorpio. 

Sagittarius ascending produces a jovial tempera- 
ment, but the Scorpio qualities of the previous life 
are also present, producing their love of the mys- 
terious, religious, and philosophic aspirations, a 
strong emotional nature, a love of power and po- 
sition, and danger of overindulgence. The schemes 
and plots of Scorpio are released as vast promotion 
projects by the Sagittarians. 

It may at first seem improbable that we should 
find much of Sagittarius in the Capricornian. With 
Capricorn rising, however, we find great emphasis 
upon the ambitions and a considerable measure of 
the Sagittarian concept of justice. When Capricorn 
ascends, the individual generally feels that he is 
limited or inhibited. The large Jupiterian promo- 
tions of his previous life are curtailed by the Sa- 
turnine limitations of his present sphere of action, 
so he is dissatisfied and repressed. 

As Capricorn is the most limited sign in the zodiac 
(a limitation, however, mostly self-imposed), it is 


(15) 


natural that the next incarnation should be a revolt 
against limitation. The result is the Aquarian whose 
life is often dedicated to unconventionality. With 
Aquarius rising, there is a general revolt against 
precedent, convention, and conservativeness. Gen- 
erous in large matters, Aquarians often retain a self- 
ishness in small things essentially Capricornian. 


Pisces is the last sign of the zodiac and it brings 
to an end the cycle of karma set in motion in Aries. 
People with this sign rising will usually have rather 
hectic lives, gathering up the loose ends of un- 
finished business. From Aquarius, the preceding sign, 
come vacillation, inconsistency, and nervousness. 
From all the preceding signs come responsibilities 
and problems to be assimilated and transmuted into 
soul power. It is the particular duty of the Piscean 
to put his life in order and prepare himself for a 
new beginning and a higher level of action. Pisces 
is the weakest of the signs because it represents the 
end of a cycle of experience. 


By reading the 12 th house as the Ascendant, the 
general pattern of the previous life can be deter- 
mined with reasonable detail, and we can discover 
the subtle forces which have brought us to our pres- 
ent state and dominate our present life. Through 
the understanding of this branch of astrology, we 
can appreciate the old philosophical belief that all 


(16) 


we are today is the result of what we have been, 
and that what we will be tomorrow must be the re- 
sult of what we are today. We learn from the past, 
we labor in the present, and we build for the future 


(47) 


ASTROLOGY AND REINCARNATION 


Flavius Claudius Julian, generally known as the 
Apostate, Emperor of Rome, was bom at Constanti- 
nople, November 6, 331 A. D. He propitiated the 
god Mercury as lord of his geniture, and from this 
circumstance, checked by his appearance and the 
events of his life, it appears that he was born with 
the sign of Gemini ascending. 

Julian was by far the most learned and philo 
sophical of the Roman emperors, and probably also 
exceeded all the others in personal virtue and in- 
tegrity. At the time of his birth, the Flavian family, 
rulers of Rome, was nominally Christian as the re- 
sult of the conversion of Constantine, sutnamed the 
Great. Julian was educated as a Christian in Nico- 
media by the Bishop Eusebius and even officiated 
as a lecturer in the Christian church. 

The circumstances which caused Julian to de- 
nounce the Christian faith and return to the pagan 
doctrines of the classical world have been variously 
described. The young man was of an extremely re- 
ligious and sensitive nature, with strong development 
of the faculty of veneration. His fine sense of values 
led him early to the realization of the greatness of 


(18) 


Pythagoras, Plato, and Aristotle. His childhood 
brought him into constant contact with the iniqui- 
ties of the Christian house of Flavian The Christian 
Emperor Constantius massacred Julian's father and 
most of his relatives, banished his half-brother Gallus 
to Ionia, and spared Julian only because of his ex- 
treme youth. A third factor in Julian's conversion 
to paganism was probably the Grecian influence in 
the prevailing educational system. Julian's teachers 
were men who highly venerated the Grecian philoso- 
phies and early instilled the old lore into the young 
man's mind. 


In his twentieth year, Julian was secretly initiated 
into the Mysteries of the Ephesians by the priest- 
philosopher Maximus, and four years later, in Ath- 
ens, he was solemnly accepted into the Mysteries of 
Eleusis. He may, therefore, be regarded as one of 
the last great initiates of the pagan world. 


There is no evidence that Julian ever persecuted 
the Christians, although he wrote a powerful essay 
against the corruptions of their faith. It is certain, 
however, that he gave favor in government to pa- 
gans, and surrounded himself with philosophers and 
priests of non-Christian rites. 


The call to the purple came on his birthday, No- 
vember 6, 355 A.D., which seems to check the prob- 
ability of the accuracy of his horoscope as given. 


(19) 


The responsibilities of government weighed heavily 
upon the soul of the philosopher-emperor and inter- 
fered seriously with the development of his religious 
ideals. But it has been said of him that he pene- 
trated as far in philosophy as the responsibilities of 
empire would permit. 


Representations of the Emperor Julian portray 
him as a man of noble visage, heavy beard, promi- 
nent nose, and a definitely Scorpio asymmetry of 
features. He described himself as being utterly in- 
different to the formalities of rulership and the 
niceties of personal appearance. He tells us that even 
while campaigning he continued his studies and 
writing, and that on the battlefield his fingers were 
stained with ink. Bound by the circumstances of the 
times in which he lived, Julian nevertheless repre- 
sented a standard of personal integrity far above 
the majority of his contemporaries and worthy of 
recognition in any age. 


The historian Libanius thus describes Julian's 
amazing life and temperament: "Always abstemious, 
and never oppressed by food, he applied himself to 
business with the activity of a bird, and dispatched 
it with infinite ease. In one and the same day, he 
gave several audiences; he wrote to cities, to magis- 
trates, to generals of armies, to his absent friends, 
to those who were on ‘the spot; hearing letters read 


(20) 


that were addressed to him, examining petitions, and 
dictating with such rapidity that the short-hand writ- 
ers could not keep pace with him. He alone had the 
secret of hearing, speaking, and writing at the same 
time; and in this multitude of complicated opera- 
tions he never mistook. After having dispatched 
business, and dined merely through urgent necessity, 
shutting himself up in his library, he read and com- 
posed till the instant when affairs of state summoned 
him to other labours. A supper still more sparing 
than the dinner was followed by a sleep as light as 
his meals. He awakened in order to labour with 
other secretaries whom he had allowed to sleep on 
the preceding day. His ministers were obliged to re- 
lieve each other; but, as for himself, he knew no 
repose but the change of employment. He alone was 
always labouring, he multiplied himself, and as- 
sumed as many forms as Proteus. Julian was a pon- 
tiff, author, diviner, judge, general of the army, and, 
in all these characters, the father of his country." 

The extraordinary personality of Julian is well 
shown in his horoscope. There is a grand trine of 
planets in the watery triplicity abundantly testifying 
to the accounts of various historians who describe 
his devotion to the mystical and occult arts. It is sel- 
dom that one discovers a nativity containing a grand 
trine involving the sun, the moon, the ruler of the 
chart and the lord of the midheaven. 


(21) 


HOROSCOPE OF 
FLAVIUS CLAUDIUS JULIAN, EMPEROR 
OF ROME, BORN NOV. 6, 331 A.D., 
6:20 P. M. 

Thomas Taylor, the eminent Platonist, in his I7- 
troduction to the Orations of the Emperor Julian, 
observes: "The grandeur of his soul is so visible in 
his composition, that we may safely credit what he 
asserted of himself, that he was formerly Alexander 
the Great, and if we consider the actions of Alex- 
ander and Julian, we shall easily be induced to be- 
lieve that it was one and the same person." 

If it is possible to discover from the positions of 
the planets any key to the previous life of an in- 
dividual, no better example could be chosen for 
study than the horoscope of the initiate Julian. By 


(22) 


virtue of his acceptance into the sacred body of 
pagan learning, he should be particularly qualified 
to pass judgment on the condition of his previous 
existence. As a pagan, Julian was well informed 
concerning the action of the law of rebirth. 

Let us now turn for a moment to the life of 
Alexander the Great. Unfortunately, we are without 
a correct horoscope of his nativity. In 1662 the 
English astrologer, John Gadbury, published a horo- 
scope purported to be that of Alexander, but the 
17th century was notoriously inaccurate in matters 
regarding history, and as early as 1697, the astrologer 
Partridge exposed the improbability in the accepted 
birth date of Alexander. Modern historians have 
shown the old nativity to be incorrect, not only in 
month and day, but also in the year. According to 
Hogath, probably the most reliable authority on the 
subject, Alexander the Great was bom B. C. 356, 
probably in the month of October. Portraitures of 
Alexander and written descriptions of his appearance 
agree in general that he was a man of medium 
height, of strong, squarely built body. The head was 
large, the face somewhat flat, the eyes large and 
wide apart, the forehead low with a heavy prominent 
lock or tuft of hair low in the’center. His eyes are 
described as liquid and melting. The neck was some- 
what large, the chin square, and the lips full. In 
other words, we have a pretty good description of 


(23) 


a Taurian, nor is there lack of precedent of the con- 
quering power of Taurus ascending. George Wash- 
ington had this sign rising, and it dominated the 
nativity of General Grant. From Hogath’s data, the 
sun sign was most likely Libra. This sign is also 
often associated with leadership and conquering 
genius. According to the given time, Napoleon I 
had Libra rising, and another example of the am- 
bitions of this sign was Adolph Hitler. Gandhi also 
had the sun in Libra. 


The lives of Alexander and Julian were certainly 
parallel in many respects. Both men were devoted 
to classical learning. Alexander the Great respected 
his tutor, Aristotle, above all other men. On one 
occasion, he declared Aristotle to be far dearer to 
him than his own father, for he said: "My father 
gave me being, but Aristotle gives me well-being.” 
The youths of both Alexander and Julian were simi- 
larly involved in conspiracies and disasters. Both men 
died at an early age. There was only one year's dif- 
ference in the length of their lives. Alexander died 
of poison; Julian, of a wound. Both died at a dis- 
tance from their native lands while on campaigns 
of conquest, and the places were not far removed. 
Alexander died in Babylon; Julian, in Assyria. 


Following the rules set forth in the preceding 
chapter, let us examine the chart of Julian. The 


(24) 


first rule is to observe which of the luminaries is 
more dignified, and take the ruler of the decan as 
the significator of the estate and condition of the 
previous life. The sun and moon are both highly 
dignified in the chart of Julian, but the moon en- 
joys the added strength of being in its own sign. 
The moon is in the second decan of Cancer, which 
is under the rulership of Scorpio; therefore, Mars is 
the significant planet. From this, we should read 
that in his previous incarnation Julian should have 
been a soldier or some person engaged in martial 
pursuits. In Julian's nativity, Mars is in the 10th 
house, the house of kingship, leadership and honors, 
and so placed, is part of the grand trine enjoying 
powerful benefic aspects from the sun, moon, and 
Mercury. It would be perfectly proper, according to 
the most conservative rules of astrology, to declare 
Mars so placed to represent an extraordinary meas- 
ure of martial dignity and a royal or at least highly 
honored position among men. 

Our second rule relates to the progress of the sun 
and Ascendant from life to life. According to this, 
the sign on the cusp of the I2th house should in- 
dicate the Ascendant of the previous life, and the 
sign previous to the sun sign should represent the 
sun sign of the previous life. If Alexander was born 
in October, it is quite reasonable to suppose that his 
sun sign could have been Libra, which is the sign 


(25) 


previous to the sun sign of the Emperor Julian. The 
description of Alexander is so definitely Taurian that 
it is well within possibility that he had Taurus ris- 
ing. Alexander believed himself to be the incarna- 
tion or embodiment of the god Dionysus. This di- 
vinity was frequently depicted with the horns of a 
bull, and is usually associated by mythologists with 
the sign of Taurus. It is therefore quite possible that 
Alexander propitiated Dionysus as the deity of his 
ascending hour in the same way that Julian propi- 
tiated Mercury. 


Some astrologers maintain that the sign ruling the 
I2th house may indicate the nationality of the pre- 
vious life. Taurus rules Greece. To follow out the 
theory that the 12th house cusp signifies the previous 
incarnation, turn the chart of Julian so that the cusp 
of the 12th becomes the Ascendant, and discover 
if possible to what degree this position could repre- 
sent the life of Alexander. To point out a few possi- 
bilities, Capricorn becomes the ruler of the mid- 
heaven. Capricorn governs India, and it was one of 
Alexander's greatest ambitions to convert the Hindus 
to Grecian art and religion. Mars and Uranus are in 
the 11th house, to represent Alexander's hopes, ideals 
and ambitions. May not the grand trine focusing 
upon these planets signify the extreme emphasis of 
ambition in the life of Alexander, who wailed to 
his generals that there were no more worlds to con- 


(26) 


quer? Sagittarius is on the 8th cusp, becoming the 
significator of death. Jupiter, the ruler of the house 
of death, is in the Sth, opposing Mars and Uranus, 
to signify his undoing. Venus, also, is in the 8th 
house and shares with Jupiter in signifying the cir- 
cumstances of dissolution. Alexander feasted and 
debauched for six days (Jupiter in the Sth), was 
finally poisoned (Venus in the 8th), and died a 
great distance from home (Sagittarius on the cusp 
of the 8th). 

From these indications and others it is possible 
to conclude that if Julian were not the reincarna- 
tion of Alexander, he was certainly the reincarna- 
tion of a person much like Alexander in many re- 
spects—a brilliant military genius, whose ambitions 
were inordinate and against the balancing and rea- 
soning forces of Jupiter. 

It is also interesting to ask the fate of the soul 
of Julian after it was freed from the body of the 
Roman Emperor. Move the horoscope so that the 
2nd house becomes the Ascendant, and try to solve 
the mystery of the next life of Julian the Apostate. 


(27) 


ASTROLOGY AND KARMA 
HOW WE MAKE OUR OWN FATE 


"There is no fatal necessity in the stars," wrote 
Lord Bacon, "and this, more prudent astrologers 
have consistently allowed." 

Opponents of astrology frequently advance the 
argument that belief in the influence of the heaven- 
ly bodies leads to a fatalistic attitude toward all the 
problems of life. We all like to think of ourselves 
as free agents. We chafe at any factor of restraint, 
physical or psychological. We all like to talk about 
free countries, free speech, and free trade. The very 
thought of freedom has become a fetish. We rise in 
righteous wrath against anyone who seeks to curb 
the spontaneous abandon of our actions. We ac- 
knowledge no authority superior to our own desires, 
and feel that the democratic theory of government 
has released us forever from supervision and re- 
straint. Are we not all born free and equal? May 
not the humblest child hope to be a senator when 
he grows up? Were not all our great capitalists, 
prize-fighters, and movie stars once humble and in- 
significant persons? Every man knows he is the equal 
of every other man, and superior to most. Success 
is a matter of "breaks." Even the subtle restraint of 
the merit system, demanding certain standards of 


(28) 


thought and action, has been dissipated by the 
equality complex. 


The materialist views astrology as a sort of astral 
theology. He feels that old orthodoxies are being 
fed to him again, under a new name. He feels the 
influence of the heavenly bodies to be as tmprob- 
able as heaven and hell, and relegates angels and 
planets to a common limbo. The modern man, wise 
with the conceits of 20th-century scholasticism, can 
find nothing in the universe nobler than himself, 
and settles down to a fanatical veneration of his own 
superiority. 


It is not, of course, within the province of any 
science to convert a man against his will, yet even 
a little thought must convince the reasonable-minded 
man that some principle of order binds together the 
far-flung purposes of the cosmos. It certainly can- 
not be scientifically demonstrated that the universe 
is merely one vast accident manifesting by means of 
innumerable lesser accidents. Despite the conceits 
of mortals, the vast pageantry of cosmic order mani- 
fests throughout its every part absolute and immut- 
able law. 


The very thought of this cosmic law oppresses and 
disturbs the lawless mortals of this generation. Man 
hates to think that he is a mere atom moved by in- 
evitable and immutable laws. Egotism is the most 


(29) 


easily offended of the conceits, and man is mortally 
offended by the immensities of the universe about 
him. 

The universe of the wise man is unendurable to 
the foolish. To ease the aching of his personal pride, 
the Sophist has decreed that space be regarded as 
mindless and soulless, that man alone is endowed 
with sovereign reason, decreed by the accident of 
fate to become master of all the works of the in- 
finite will. 

How different from this modern attitude was the 
gentler vision of the ancients. They held all creation 
to be ensouled by a divine will and a universal pur- 
pose. Instead of being offended by the sense of their 
own smallness, they rejoiced in the vastness and 
sufficiency of the wisdom that preserved all life and 
sustained the order of cosmic progress. 

It was among the wisest of ancient nations that 
philosophy and astrology grew up together, each 
accepted as a complement of the other. Nor was 
antiquity enfeebled by a sense of fatalism; rather, 
it rejoiced in the recognition of immutable insti- 
tutions of law in which no elements of change or 
accident existed. Having discovered and accepted 
the great laws of life, the philosophers of antiquity 
put their own lives in order, gladly acknowledging 
the sovereign wisdom which regulated justly and 
certainly all celestial and terrestrial affairs. 


(30) 


The law of cause and effect is one of the most 
important of the seven great laws by which, accord- 
ing to the ancient wisdom, the universe is sustained. 
The acceptance of this law and the understanding 
of its inferences is found in nearly all of the old 
systems of religion and science. Over forty great na- 
tions of the past have preserved this law in their 
scriptures by the statement which we call the golden 
rule. Unrecognized by most, this same law preserves 
all the consistencies of life and action. 


The farmer plants his seed with perfect assurance 
that it will grow. Science accepts this law in every 
laboratory experiment. We live from day to day 
sustained by the conviction that certain causes will 
always produce consistent effects, and we have never 
yet been disappointed. 


Yet very few people apply the law of cause and 
effect to personal action, sometimes because of ig- 
norance, but more often, as already observed, be- 
cause the training of the modern man has caused 
him to feel that he is in some way superior to or 
apart from the ordinary edicts of nature 


The great philosopher of India, Gautama Buddha, 
once said: “Effect follows cause as the wheel of the 
cart follows the foot of the oxen." We live in a 
world completely ruled by a law of universal com- 
pensation. Most of the miseries which now afflict 


(31) 


suffering mankind are due to our ignoring the prin- 
ciple of compensation in action. We do not sense 
the profound moral inference behind the story of 
the sowing and the reaping. 

It is perfectly natural to ask: how does astrology 
fit into this picture? What part do the stars play in 
the administration of the law of cause and effect? 
To understand this point, we must also have re- 
course to another law of the ancients—reincama- 
tion. Life is eternally building, constantly improving 
vehicles for its own expression. 


For our present purpose, we narrow down this 
subject to the life of man, for as Socrates once wise- 
ly observed: "The proper study for mankind is man." 


Reincarnation applied to man teaches that each 
human being has already lived many times upon this 
earth, and in future ages will frequently return. The 
present life of a person is, therefore, not the whole 
of his existence, but a mcre fragment. 

Causes leading up to this present existence arc 
not always evident in this life, nor are the conse- 
quences, which, arising from present action, will 
manifest in some future life. The ancients believed 
that from the horoscope it was possible to discover 
certain generalities of the previous life. 


The law of cause and effect, when applied par- 
ticularly to human concerns, was called karma by 


(32) 


the ancients. Karma does not mean fatalism, but 
rather, compensation. When a man buys something 
on credit, he creates a debt, and the law declares 
that he must pay that debt. In a material, economic 
transaction this would not be regarded as fatalism, 
but as responsibility. Every action which a human 
being performs may thus be regarded as a cause, 
and every cause thus set in motion must have an 
effect consistent with itself. This is not fatality; this 
is compensation, or karma. 


In this unphilosophic age, we all like to hope that 
by some mysterious formula we can escape the re 
sponsibilities of destructive action. We want to be 
selfish, but we do not want to suffer the reactions of 
selfishness. We constantly break natural law, and we 
are all seeking some panacea which will remove from 
us the unhappy consequences of our indiscretions. 
The theological doctrine of the forgiveness of sin is 
a salve to take the sting from the reactions of 
iniquity, but the law of cause and effect can never 
be evaded, and all the evils that we do return to us 
again. There is no escape from any part of them. 


The law of compensation, or karma, has two dis- 
tinct aspects. Good karma is the beneficent reaction 
of constructive action. Fine and noble’causations pro- 
duce like consequences, bringing us joy and security 
and the good things of life. Bad karma is the re- 


(33) 


action of destructive action. Evil causes set in mo- 
tion produce evil consequences, resulting in the 
miseries and misfortunes which afflict this present 
life. 


When we are born into this world, there are three 
factors working together, molding and modifying 
our existence here. The first is good karma, which 
brings certain privileges of happiness and improve- 
ment, and surrounds us with such good things as 
we have earned. The second is bad karma, which 
manifests as the difficulties of the hour and the 
apparent evil fatality which dogs our footsteps. The 
third factor is action itself, our individual expression 
which is constantly making new karma, good or bad, 
according to the merit of the action itself. 


Philosophy teaches us to be modest in success 
(good karma), patient in adversity (bad karma), 
and constructive in all action. A life so lived prom- 
ises future lives of greater enlightenment and hap- 
piness. 


The law of cause and effect controls, among other 
things, the actual phenomenon of birth itself. We 
are born at the time which we have merited, into 
conditions which we have merited, and into oppor- 
tunities suitable for the next stage of our develop- 
ment. Each person is in the place he has earned for 
himself, and, if he is dissatisfied with his present 


(34) 


condition, then he must set up within himself the 
causes which will result in a better state. 


Astrology is the mechanism which administers the 
law of karma. The universe is vibration. The inter- 
action of the heavenly bodies is constantly setting 
up fields of specialized vibration. The incarnating 
entity of man is also a rate of vibration, modified 
by the karmic factors within itself. The incarnation 
of the individual is determined by these vibratory 
factors. He is born into circumstances consistent with 
the karmic modifications of his own nature. He is 
born when the planets are arranged in a pattern 
consistent with his own karma. With his first breath, 
man breathes in the sidereal influences; and what he 
has merited comes to him from the stars and becomes 
the individuality determinant for his entire life. 


The stars, then, are not merely sending baneful 
influences upon some poor, weak, helpless mortal. 
They are really administering universal justice, be- 
stowing upon each according to his own works. This 
is not fatalism. It is compensation. One of the first 
things that every philosopher must learn is to pay 
gladly the debts which he has incurred in nature. 
All karma, both good and bad, leads finally to en- 
lightenment through experience. 


It is very often possible to determine, to some de- 
gree, the karmic elements in life from the horo- 


(35) 


scope, for in many respects the nativity is a state- 
ment of indebtedness, a bill rendered to each of us 
when we are born. In it are set forth the debits and 
credits of karma, as these apply directly to the pres- 
ent life. 


The path of progress is with the sun, and as karma 
arises from past action, it is most apt to be revealed 
through the qualities of the signs preceding those 
occupied by the sun and the Ascendant in this pres- 
ent life. 


As you realize, the signs of the zodiac are al- 
ternately positive and negative. The positive signs 
are Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquar- 
ius. The negative signs are Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, 
Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces. To understand what 
is meant by positive and negative, it would prob- 
ably be more appropriate to use the terms objective 
and subjective. Objective signs gain experience by 
contact with external sources of knowledge, and 
objectify impulses. The subjective signs are much 
more introverted, and their reactions arise from with- 
in themselves, rather than from external contact. 
The negative and positive signs alternating represent 
an ebb and flow of energy. The Oriental philoso- 
phers symbolized it by an inbreathing and outbreath- 
ing, an alternating process of externalizing. These 
signs themselves are ‘closely related, therefore, to 


(36) 


cause and effect, the positive signs being causes, and 
the negative signs effects, or actions and reactions. 


Persons born under the positive signs of the zodiac 
are not so apt to sense the karmic factors in life as 
those born under the more psychically sensitive nega- 
tive signs. This does not mean that the positive signs 
escape cosmic law, but they interpret impulses so 
definitely into action that they seldom feel the retrib- 
utive aspect of energy. This explains why people 
born under the negative signs are much more fatal- 
istic than their positive sign brothers and sisters. 


You may have already observed that each of the 
zodiacal signs includes among its keywords qualities 
belonging to previous signs. I believe that each sign 
works out the karma of the previous sign. Also, each 
sign rebels against the limitations of the previous 
sign. The sign of the zodiac under which we are 
born reveals not only the personal tendencies of 
the present personality, but also brings forward a 
statement of unfinished business from the past. If 
previous action has merited a fortunate karma, then 
the qualities of the sign are positively stated. If 
previous action merits an unfortunate karma, then 
the negative responds to the negative vibration of the 
sign. All of the sidereal influences are in themselves 
neutral, but they manifest as constructive or destruc- 
tive according to the merit of the individual himself. 


(37) 


Let us consider the signs in their order, bearing 
in mind especially the workings of the law of karma: 


Aries, the first sign, is in itself positive, but it 
carries with it much of the negativeness of Pisces, 
the preceding sign. There is no more certain indica- 
tion of weakness than constant effort to be strong, or 
an overstatement of ambition. Aries is a sign of re- 
bellion against the limitations and restraint of Pisces. 
Disappointment may be considered an Aries charac- 
teristic. Persons born under the sign are constantly 
struggling to overcome obstacles, not realizing that 
their greatest obstacle is the Piscean weakness with- 
in themselves. 


Taurus is a negative sign, but persons born under 
it are in many ways more positive than negative in 
their impulses. Many men successful in industry and 
military are born under this supposedly negative 
sign. The reason is that the inordinate ambitions of 
Aries lie in the karmic background of all Taurus 
people. The reason the sign is termed negative is be- 
cause very often these dynamic impulses are blocked 
in their manifestation by the inflexible Taurian tem- 
perament. Ambition is locked in and comes to noth- 
ing, unless the Taurian person subjects his life to a 
powerful self-discipline. Even the successful Taurians 
are notoriously unhappy. Whatever they achieve is 
unsatisfying, and they live and die in bondage to 


(38) 


unfulfilled desires. Their Aries karma denies them 
contentment. 


Gemini is considered to be a strong, positive, in- 
tellectual sign, but throughout all of its aspects it 
is dominated by the subjective emotional impulses 
of Taurus. Gemini people are notoriously irritable 
and inconstant. One of the chief professions of the 
sign is writing, and literature as a whole is emo 
tional and artistic, and its inspiration comes much 
more from Venus than from Mercury. Mercurial 
people are strongly temperamental, often moody, and 
not infrequendy have morbid imaginations. The neg- 
ative Mercurian frequently lacks integrity and is 
largely dominated by impulses and sense gratifica- 
tion, which is brought over from Venus, the ruler 
of Taurus. 


Cancer is a negative sign, strongly sympathetic 
and frequently a victim of inadequate mental control. 
The bad karma of Gemini works out through the 
dubious reasoning powers of the Cancer type. The 
undeveloped Cancer persons develop the most ex- 
traordinary attitudes on the numerous problems of 
life and relationships. Their sympathies do their 
thinking for them, and sentimental antipathies breed 
furious dislikes. Failure to orient in the intellectual 
sphere while living under the Gemini influence 
means a scattered existence under Cancer, with the 


(39) 


- 


thinking powers partly eclipsed by the hallucinations 
of the sentiments. 


Leo 18 a positive sign, but is frequently a victim 
of the evils of the sign Cancer. Unbalanced Leo 
types frequently suffer from some form of obsession, 
a malady peculiar to the psychism of Cancer. The ob- 
session may range from a divinity complex to a 
highly aggravated infallibility complex. Leo people 
frequently feel that they are not as other mortals, 
that they are made by a special pattern, peculiarly 
endowed with semidivine attributes. Their profes- 
sions may vary, but whether they be evangelists or 
dictators, artists or financiers, they are overwhelmed 
with the impulse to reform. Cancer is a sign of 
parenthood and teaching, and Leo people feel that 
they are the fathers and teachers of all mankind. 


Virgo is a negative sign and is, so to speak, the 
let-down from Leo. Virgo people very often find 
Leo circumstances thrust upon them and they are 
forced by conditions beyond their control into po- 
sitions of responsibility and leadership. The Virgo 
mind naturally seeks comfort, security and protec- 
tion, but is seldom privileged to enjoy either. It js 
a sign of responsibility and signifies the servant and 
the breadwinner. The sign of Leo is frequently as- 
sociated with monetary affairs, and the problems of 
Virgo are usually monetary ones. If Virgo inherits 


(40) 


a good karma from its Leo past, then it may be 
placed in positions of responsibility and trust and 
become an administrator of power and authority. 
If the Leo person has trampled on others in his 
path to power, he is apt to find his Virgo incarna- 
tion one of hopeless limitation and financial reverse. 


Libra is a positive sign and is regarded as one of 
the most artistic of the twelve. Though under the 
rulership of Venus, Libra manifests many tendencies 
of the Mercurial sign which precedes it. Libra fre- 
quently revolts against class limitation and rises to 
superiority usually from humble ancestry. In other 
words, it is a climbing sign. Two good examples of 
this climbing tendency of Libra are Napoleon Bona- 
parte and Adolph Hitler. Virgo symbolizes the pro- 
letariat, and the fundamental psychology of Libra 
is a struggle against mediocrity. From its Virgo 
background, the Libra type also secures the capacity 
to judge human nature. Libra types become public 
idols because of the ability to handle people. Their 
bad karma, however, frequently limits their capacity 
to remain in high position, and disaster follows honor. 


Scorpio is a negative sign, yet in many ways it 
manifests a strength not always to be found in posi- 
tive signs. But, again, the course of the impulses is 
introverted. Scorpio's great problem is emotional 
control. The emotions of Scorpio are not derived 


(41) 


from Mars, the ruler of the sign, but from the ac- 
cumulated karma of Libra, ruled by the emotional 
planet Venus. Libra signifies justice, and its symbol 
is the scales. But where bad karma has caused the 
Libra native to depart from standards of integrity, 
the distortion of the justice sense comes out in Scor- 
pio, where truth becomes involved in a thousand 
emotional reflexes and loses all semblance to in- 
tegrity. It is the bad karma of Scorpio to always 
know that it is right, whether it is right or not. It 
becomes its own standard of integrity. In a highly- 
advanced Scorpio, this sense of justice may be highly 
perfected and lead to great attainment in the oc- 
cult arts, but, in a less developed type, judgment is 
usually hopelessly biased by the intensities of the 
emotions. 


Sagittarius is a positive sign and seems to delib- 
erately revolt against the introversions of Scorpio. 
The Sagittarian is a good organizer and promoter. 
He receives these qualities as a legacy from Scorpio, 
but he puts them to much more evident use. The 
Sagittarian is usually entirely open and aboveboard 
with his plans. This is a reaction from the Scorpio 
secretiveness. Sagittarius is a religious sign, which 
again is due to the strong emotional influence of 
Scorpio. Sagittarius is also the sign of long journeys 
on water, yet is not itself a water sign, but borrows 


(42) 


its affinity to liquids from Scorpio. Sagittarians fre- 
quently engage in occupations of a Scorpio nature, 
as medicine, occultism, diplomacy, etc. The karmic 
tie between the two signs often manifests as dissipa- 
tion, which is a negative Scorpio weakness. 

Capricorn is a negative sign, though in many ways 
one of the strongest and most enduring of the twelve. 
In no sign is there more danger of introversion than 
in this one. The negative quality of the sign turns 
all the impulses back upon themselves and makes 
normal mental, emotional, and physical expression 
difficult. Yet Capricorn people are filled with the 
bubbling enthusiasm of Sagittarius. They are an in- 
dependent, ambitious, naturally progressive group 
of people, but their normal expression is made al- 
most impossible because of a peculiarly crystallized 
personality. The Capricorn person inherits from his 
Sagittarian incarnation high aspirations and widely 
scattered resources. The lesson of Capricorn is a 
moderating of all extremes of living. Most of all, 
the Capricorn native must master the impatience and 
inordinate ambition of the Sagittarian and settle 
down to an appreciation of reasonable and simple 
things. Capricorn people are often unhappy, not so 
much from the evils of their state, but from the 
comparison between their present position and some 
abstract standard toward which their ambitions are 
pointed. 


(43) 


Aquarius is the last of the positive signs and in- 
herits from Capricorn a peculiar fixation of view- 
point in the midst of an otherwise almost complete 
inconsistency. Aquarius is termed the sign of the 
liberals, and from social reform to dietetics the 
Aquarian is apt to be found pointing out the ad- 
vantages of something new, and the hopeless dis- 
advantage of things as they arc. It may be said that 
Aquarians are born in the objective case. One that 
I know once referred to himself as one of the cranks 
that make the world go round. The sign is original 
and capable, and receives from Capricorn certain 
psychic undercurrents which strongly influence all of 
its activities. First it embodies the Capricorn tenacity 
of viewpoint, and at the same time it lives in a 
constant state of revolt against Capricorn conserva- 
tism and accepted institutions. From Capricorn, also, 
comes a definite strain of melancholia, and, like 
Capricornians, Aquarians have very few close friends. 
This is not because people do not like them, but be- 
cause they cannot penetrate the Aquarian aura of 
superindividuality. The Aquarians should try to over- 
come the Capricorn karma of isolation and try to 
mingle in a happy, genuine way with the numerous 
interests of mankind. 

Pisces is the last sign of the zodiac and is also a 
negative sign. As the 12th house rules karma par- 
ticularly, and Pisces is the 12th house sign and the 


(44) 


last division of the zodiac, it has special karmic sig- 
nificance. Aquarius is the greatest energy-waster in 
the zodiac, because people born under that sign do 
not know how to relax. This waste is reflected in 
the debilities of the Piscean. Pisces also is complet- 
ing a cycle and gathering up the loose ends of in- 
carnations in the preceding eleven signs. The result 
is a heavy load of karma. When the karmic debt to 
the universe has been paid in the Pisces incarnation, 
the incarnating soul is then ready to start out afresh 
with a considerable part of karma sublimated into 
soul power. 


(45) 


