ASTROLOGY 
AND THE 
HOAX 

OF 


“SCIENTIFIC TEMPER" 


Chief Editor 
GAYATRI DEVI VASUDEV 


This book is an inspired collection of writings that 
expose the fraud of "Scientific temper" in its attacks 
on Astrology. Astrclogy has always had its critics— 
criticism is indeed healthy for the growth and proper 
understanding of any science. But unfair and unjust 
criticism made up of distortions, lies and bias must 
be forcefully met and nipped in the bud. Otherwise 
it can be a dangerous enemy of all honest intellectual 
inquiry and examination. 

A lot of criticism has been levelled against 
Astrology in recent times by some so-called 
scientists and selfstyled rationalists. But how much 
of it is sensible criticism? And more important, how 
much of it is true? This book reveals the bias, the 
vituperation, the ignorance behind such attacks. 
Those who have attacked Astrology do not even 
know what it means. Some have even taken recourse 
to lies to criticize Astrology. This volume is an 
attempt at meeting unfair criticism. 

The book tells you all about Astrology (non- 
technical) and which exposes the fraud the rationalist 
is playing on the layman in order to push his anti- 
Astrology campaign. 


Gayatri Devi Vasudev, B.Sc, LL.B., is the Associate 
Editor of The Astrological Magazine. She has 
authored Practical Horary Astrology and How to 
Judge a Horoscope—Volumell. She has also 
contributed articles to several periodicals and dailies. 
Some of her famous predictions in The Astrological 
Magazine include the assassination of Mrs. Indira 
Gandhi, the election of George Bush, 
Mr. Ramakrishna Hegde's chief-ministership and 
subsequent loss of power, Mrs. Benazir Bhutto's 
prime ministcrship, the end of the "Rajiv era", return 
of Benazir Bhutto to power, India's space 
programme, etc. 

Mrs. Gayatri Devi Vasudev has written several 
articles on matters of topical interest. She has also 
delivered lectures at different educational 
institutions, Rotary and other clubs and groups. She 
has conducted workshops on different aspects of 
Astrology and participated in seminars on the 
subject. She was the first woman to deliver the 
Keynote Address to inaugurate the II International 
Symposium on Vedic Astrology on November 18, 
1994 at San Rafael. California, U.S.A. She also 
participated in the [V International Symposium on 
Astrology on February 2-6, 1996 at San Diego, 
U.S.A. as special invitee. 

Mrs. Gayatri Devi Vasudev has brought out a 
collection of papers under the title Astrology and 
the Hoax of Scientific Temper. She has recently, 
with her father, Dr. B.V. Raman edited Planets and 
the'Xext World Har She has been actively working 
under Dr. B.V. Raman in his mission to bring 
Astrology into the comity of sciences. 


CONTENTS 


Preface 
Introduction 
Nehru Wanted Rajiv's Horoscope 
1. Why Single Out Astrology — I 
Gayatri Devt. Vasudev 
2. Why Single Out Astrology — II 
Gayatri Devi Vasudev 
3. Proof of the Pudding 
K.N. Rao. LAAS. 
Table I 
Table 1 
4. Air Crashes Related to 
Astronomic Events 
V. Zakharko 
5. The Hoax of "Scientific Temper" 
A. The Narlikar Episode 
Gayatrt Devi Vasudev 
B. Supressing Truth 
H. J. Eysenck 
D. K. B. Nias 
C. Rejoinders to The Humanist 
Statement 
1. Astrology and Unscientific 
Prejudices 
B. A. Kumar Babu 


105 


113 
113 


119 


127 


127 


ii. About Astrology 132 
Buell D. Huggins 
D. Rationalist Plays to the Galleries 138 
Gayatri Devi Vasudev 
Validity of Astrology 


- A Radio Discussion “ 141 
E. Piqued Rationalist Resorts to Lies 160 
Gayatri Devi Vasudev « 
F. Some More Hypocricy 170 
Gayatri Devi Vasudev 
i. The Space Tamashas 170 


fi. Weathermen Caught Napping 173 
fii. Another Instance of Hypocrisy 176 
6. The Kovoor Story - The Denouement 179 
Y. Kesava Menon : 
7. How I was Greeted by "Science": 


Strict Scepticism 185 
Michel Gauquelin 

8. Planets and Personality 193 
Michel Gauquelin 

9. Astrology. Science and Scientists 205 


B. A. Kumar Babu 
10. Astrology and Our Space Programme 215 
Gayatri Devi Vasudev 
11. How I was Convinced About Astrology 231 
Late Dr. A. S. Bhise 


12. Sri Aurobindo on Astrology 244 
edited by K. Channabasappa 
13. Outwitting the Stars 255 


Paramahamsa Yogananda 
14. Written in the Stars—Paul Brunton 266 


15.Astrology Verified 
16. Astrology: Its Origin 
17. Indian Astrology - Sepharial 
Appendix I 
—Prof. Carl Jung's Letter to 
Prof. B. V. Raman 
Appendix H 
—The Stars and Me 
Woodrow Wyatt 
Appendix WW 
—Who Doesn't Consult Astrologers 
Stepher Pile 
Appendix IV 
—Brighu Nadi Reading of Bhagawan 
Ramana Maharshi's Horoscope 


291 
298 
311 


328 


330 


334 


339 


Preface 


This book is an inspired collection of writings 
that exposes the fraud of "scientific temper" in its 
attacks on Astrology. Astrology has always had ils 
critics— criticism is indeed healthy for the growth 
and proper understanding of any science. But un- 
fair, unjust criticism made up.of distortions, lies 
and bias must be forcefully met and nipped in the 
bud. Otherwise, if can be a dangerous enemy of all 
honest intellectual inquiry and examination. This 
volume is an attempt at meeting unfair criticism. 

{ thank all the thinkers from various sources 
from whom [ have drawn my ideas and insplration. 
I thank Mr. Anand R. Kundaji of the, Indian Institute 
of World Culture, Bangalore who has been extremely 
helpful in securing me some vital information 
found in this book and also my brother Mr. B. 
Niranjan Babu but for whose dedicated and whole- 
hearted help ite production of this volume would 
not have been so competently executed. 


Bangalore GAYATRI DEVI VASUDEV 
24.12.1989 


INTRODUCTION 


Today the age of science {s full upon us. 
Apart from the benefits conferred on mankind to 
make material life more comfortable. science is 
collaborating in massacres and today, in this age 
of scientific thought we stand on the brink of 
scientific destruction. Social ill-health that we see 
in our country - alcoholism, violent, crimes, acci- 
dents, suicide, terrorism and disregard for ethical 
principles even in the highest quarters - is the 
product of the age of science. 


The tentacles of science threaten us as it 
claims truth is its monopoly and it fosters 
materialism! Over-reliance on the method of 
science as the sole font of valid knowledge has 
blinded a certain section of educated persons to 
the possible alternatives employed in ancient 
India to discover disciplines like Astrology, Yoga, 
Vedanta etc. 

Today, the term science is being abused by 
some so-called ‘men of science'. What they need 
to be told is that science needs Astrology to im- 
prove and harmonize the life of man. Science has 
been measuring the speed of falling stones and 
peering through lenses, Yet it has no explanation 
for gravity. The scientist does not know the 
meaning of gravity as such although he will rush 
to identify its manifestations. The trouble is some 
men of certain so-called recognised sciences have 
taken upon themselves the role of social 
reformers depending upon the official recognition 


and state patronage their discipline currently en- 
Joys. They hasten at every opportunity to 
denigrate Astrology. Their so-called scientific ap- 
proach is nothing but a subterfuge, meant to 
confuse and mislead the common man. Their 
prejudice against Astrology rests more on a mis- 
conception of what science is than on a true un- 
derstanding of the basics of Astrology. What they 
have not realized is that the techniques of objec- 
tivity that distinguish science are already in 
trouble in the areas of ‘relativity and particle 
physics. It 41s now being discovered, to the 
chagrin of the rigid orthodox scientist, that the 
universe is non-material and non-rational. The 
first step for these self-styled men of scientific 
temper is to free themselves from a misconcep- 
tion of Astrology and to be clear about the defini- 
tion of science, of the methods of science. 


We commend to the attention of our pseudo- 
scientists who denigrate Astrology, what the 
famous Australian neurologist and Nobel 
Laureate Sir Eccles says viz., “This is an age 
more beset by superstition than‘any other age 
and the worst superstition is that materialistic 
science can explain all things. The materialists 
have had their long innings of arrogance. Their 
beliefs are worn out. They land nowhere. 
Materialism gives you a hopeless empty life, one 
without values." 


The aim of science is truth, not running 
down branches .of knowledge like Astrology. 
Prejudice is no sign, however, of a true scientific 
mind and prejudice is what sticks out in attacks 
against Astrology. 

Criticism against Astrology has always been 
from a standpoint of ignorance. A careful review 
of some of the most vociferous critics and their 
antics will reveal a frightening mixture of both 
lack of a knowledge of what science is and what 
Astrology is. How else can one describe critics 
who tear a handful of predictions out of context 
and brand them as failures and proceed to say, 
that Astrology therefore is not a science? How 
else can one explain the obstinate refusal of 
critics to look at hundreds of correct predictions, 
some of-them, for instance so remarkably ac- 
curate as of the 1975 Emergency made months 
before in the pages of THE ASTROLOGICAL 
MAGAZINE, and their mischievous libel that it had 
not been predicted at all. Show us one discipline 
where there is not 100 percent success as critics 
of Astrology demand, but even a mere 50 percent 
success. Incidentally Astrology can boast of 65 to 
70 percent success in the hands of qualified men 
and women. For some of the western scientists 
who claim to have tested Astrology. Astrology 
means only the Sun-sign and the Sun-sign 
forecasts published in the media. They equate the 
entire subject of Astrology with the Sun-sign 
readings and betray colossal ignorance of this 


systematized knowledge. namely, Jyotisha 
developed in ancient India thousands of years 
ago. . 
What is distressingly unfortunate ,is that 
some of our scientists and media persons imitate 
western thinking in the name of modernism, im- 
pervious to and ignoring their own great heritage. 

The so called men of ‘scientific temper’ tr- 
responsibly play with young people's minds and 
lead them away from the spirit of scientific en- 
quiry by peddling neo-superstition as scientific 
truth before them. The consequences of such in- 
tellectual dishonesty can only be disastrous: on 
young minds in their formative age. 

These pseudo-scientists indulge in nit-picking 
all the time. They have developed the knack of 
quoting, out of context, one or two _ isolated 
predictions that may have gone slightly off the 
mark and rushing to the press to proclaim Astrol- 
ogy is therefore not science. -+ 

Proclamations. - even if endorsed by the 
highest authority of the land, do not make up 
science. If the yardstick of hundred percent ac- 
curacy is applied to other disciplines, then 
SROSS-I and its miserable end (24-3-1987) and 
the fate of ASLV-D2 (13-7-1988) can only be 
described as the greatest science hoax of the cen- 
tury. In fact these failures of science have only 
confirmed astrological axioms. Space science and 
meteorological failures costing crores of rupees 
are indulgently overlooked by the same critics 
which proves they have no sense of science or 


fairplay. They dare not criticise such colossal 
failures, because if they do. they must pay the 
price of-, forfeiting their official positions. With 
Astrology, it 1s not that way. Astrology has no 
godfather in the governmental patronage which 
these other ‘sciences’ enjoy. 

The material provided in these pages is from 
different .sources. Some of it embodies my own 
painful experience with so-called men of science 
and the highly confused 'rationalists'. Some of it 
is from genuine men of science. Part of it is from 
some of the greatest thinkers we have had in our 
country in the past. But all of it Is fact. No con- 
cocted fiction like some of the rationlists have 
done in their own books and Sunday supplement- 
articles decrying Astrology. 


The loudest critics of Astrology in our own 
country have, as far as I have known, not shown 
any trace of the spirit of science in their obses- 
sive attacks against Astrology. Their “facts” have 
been cooked up; and their language undignified. 
This has not hurt Astrology one wee bit. But the 
nuisance has to be checked. And these critics 
must be reminded of an Arab proverb which says 
"You can fool some people for all time, you can 
fool all people for some time, but you can't fool 
all people for all time". 

I only hope that after reading these pages 
you realise what a big fraud the critics of Astrol- 
ogy are indulging in by their antics. I also hope 
you will appreciate the ancient heritage we have 
in Astrology and learn to question the Hes critics 
try to spread against it. The best way we can 


combat these lies is to understand Astrology 
properly starting from its basics. Astrology is a 
Vedanga and therefore Sat. It will always remain 
for Truth is. It has survived worse attacks in the 
past and wherever there are true men of science 
who respect truth, Astrology will always be 
respected. 

In the opinion of the famous psycho-analyst 
Carl Jung “Western civilisation .by ignoring 
Astrology gains little and may be losing much" by 
what: he calls "the contemptible treatment and 
defamation of an ancient art which defied a 
reasonable explanation and after 200 years of in- 
tensive scientific progress we can risk testing 
them in the light of modern truths." 


Gayatri Devi Vasudev B.Sc., LL.B. 


Bangalore 
24-12-1989 


NEHRU WANTED RAJIV'S 
HOROSCOPE 


When Rajiv Gandhi was born, grandpa 
Jawaharlal Nehru wrote to Indira Gandhi 
asking her to get a "proper horoscope made 
by a competent” person. 

Writing to his sister ViJayalaxmi Pandit on 
August 29, 1944, Nehru said*. "In my letter to 
Indira. I suggested to her to ask you to get a 
proper horoscope made by a_ competent 
person. Such permanent records aa the date 
and time of birth are desirable. As for the 
time, I suppose the proper time should be 
mentioned and not the artificial time which 
is being used now. War time is at least an 
hour ahead of the normal time." 


When astrologers speculated about 
Mr. Nehru's birth time, his private secretary 
wrote on June 19, 1962 to the editor of 
THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE. Bangalore, 
stating: 

"The Prime Minister has asked me _ to 
write to you that, so far as he knows, the 
time of his birth was 11.30 p.m. on 
November, 1889." 

Astrologers have been speculating about 
the birth time of Mr. Rajiv Gandhi in the 
columns of THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 
since his entry into politics. - UNI 


CHAPTER ONE 


WHY SINGLE OUT 
ASTROLOGY— 


Gayatri Devi Vasudev 


Computer software has ushered in a revolu- 
tion in the intellectual world. Medical diagnosis, 
legal Information, accounts and auditing, busi- 
ness management and a variety of other uses 
have been ascribed to the computer with constd-- 
erable success. Astrological charts, known as 
horoscopes, have also been possible in a matter 
of minutes using computers. There 1s hardly any 
area of intellectual activity that has not been ex- 
plored by computer technology. 

Horoscope casting (provided the chart is cast 
in its entirety which includes Rasi, Navamsa, 
Shadvargas and/or Shodasavargas, Dasa-balance 
as well as Ashtakavarga charts) done manually is 
a tedious job but done by a competent person is 
always accurate. What the computer does ts to 
practically eliminate the labour involved and save 
on time. This is about all that a computer can do 
in the field of Astrology. Its role is limited only to 
the calculational or computational part. To the 
conscientious astrologer, the utility of the com- 
puter stops here. 

What then does one have to say on computer 
forecasts? Simply this. Exit the astrologer and 
enter the mercenary, enter the peddler, enter the 
businessman. Computer forecasts are absolutely 


unreliable. The blame here must not unfairly be- 
laid at the door of Astrology or the astrologer but 
at the doorstep of the tribe of men who will ex- 
ploit human weaknesses. 

This tribe is active not only in Astrology but 
also among educationalists (otherwise why would 
marks-cards’ scandals erupt periodically or ques- 
tion papers leak out), medical fraternity (trade in 
human spare-parts is reported all the time), en- 
gineering, legal and every other field of profes- 
sional activity. 

So. the next time someone advertises a com- 
puter forecast we can surely conclude it is a 
fraud as in the case of education, medicine etc., 
where too. unscrupulous elements exist in larger 
numbers but under the more dangerous cloak of- 
fered by official recognition and state patronage. 

Patients die under medical care and some 
even worse, get incapacitated for life due to indif- 
ferent and negligent medical treatment. Brilliant 
students find their academic future Jeopardised 
and even destroyed by avaricious dons who in- 
dulge not only in favouritism but also sell suc- 
cess in examinations for monetary and other con- 
siderations. Such things happen in every profes- 
sion and to single out Astrology only as fraud is 
to display an obsessive prejudice against it. 

When two people marry, sometimes the doc- 
tors are approached and if the blood groups are 
not agreeable, the match may be set aside. 
Similarly young men and ‘women with serious 
cardiac conditions are advised against marriage. 


Does one therefore say that marriages are 
destroyed thereby and hell created for the young 
people. Most certainly not. The same logic applies 
to horoscope matching. When the disparities be- 
tween two charts are high the match is not 
recommended. Here the role of Astrology is 
preventive. Future unhappiness is _ avoided. 
Likewise where a chart is said to have kuja 
dosha, it means chances of strife in marriage are 
more. But by pairing such a horoscope with one 
containing counter-balancing features marital 
harmony can be achieved. Astrology was formu- 
lated by the ancient Rishis of India and with the 
specific purpose of ensuring Loka Kalyana or the 
welfare of the largest number. Only a_ short- 
sighted view and an inability to understand men 
and matters can conclude that Astrology is fraud. 
No one who has had enough experience of life, of 
inter-relationships between members of a family, 
of human limitations and the weaknesses of the 
mind will ever condemn Astrology. 

Some critics class Astrology with the evils of 
dowry. This is the ultimate in infantile logistics 
and ¢o be strongly condemned. The motive in 
dowry is greed. The intention of horoscopic 
matching is the total welfare of all concerned. 
One who cannot distinguish this simple dif- 
ference between the two is quite incapable of ap- 
preciating the nuances of Astrology. 

Astrology is a preventive measure and the 
very anti-thesis of the adage ‘ignorance is bliss'. 
Do schools and IITs admit mentally retarded 
pupils on their rolls? If they do not, can you 


describe it as injustice and of labelling the men- 
tally retarded as misfits. Here it is only a percep- 
tion of the fact of the intellectual abilities of the 
individual that is being made and not discrimina- 
tion. So also in Astrology, when a chart is 
described as having some blemish, all that is 
being done is cautioning the parents that certain 
precautions must be taken while matching so 
that the girl or boy may be happy. Otherwise, it 
would be like Justifying a heart patient's eating 
cholesterol rich foods and arguing that if he is 
not given fat-rich foods he is being discriminated 
against. How unreasonable prejudice can make 
one is evident from this comparison? 

The favourite argument of some critics of 
Astrology is that a negative forecast to someone 
led him to commit suicide. Incidentally this was 
due to a computer forecast. A computer is a 
mechanical thing and with no ability to Judge 
human nature. That is why a computer forecast 
is not reliable. But no competent human 
astrologer would have made this kind of forecast. 
So why blame Astrology for this. Blame the man 
peddling such software. 

It is common knowledge that indiscreet medi- 
cal diagnosis often has had far reaching 
dangerous consequences. As a result couples 
have divorced, young men and women told by 
doctors they have terminal illnesses have killed 
themselves, wrong SD tests have led women to 
abort foetuses prematurely and so on. The list of 
tragedies due to such diagnoses is endless. 


Now take the legal profession. Instead of 
counselling warring couples to reorganise their 
martmiages, lawyers have prompted their trusting 
clients to file divorce-suits and destroyed thereby. 
Innumerable marriages. Not only that, children of 
such "legally invalidated marriages have been 
shuffled from parent to parent thereby damaging 
forever their growing minds with the idea that ad- 
justment between family members is impossible. 
Later when such children grow up, the first solu- 
tion they seek when emotionally low is in the 
courts perpetuating thereby a death blow to the 
very foundations of the institution of marriage. 
Or. where differences erupt between collaterals, 
lawyers are the first to advise partition of not 
only property but also of human feeling. Does no 
critic of Astrology have the guts to point this out? 


I know of whole families, generations of them, 
living in hate simply because of ill-advised litiga- 
tion relating to Joint families. In one case a young 
man wrote to me saying his wife had left him fol- 
lowing some tension. She had taken away their 
6-month child with her. The young man wanted 
to know if his marriage would get re-sorted. After 
a look at the 2 charts I told him, his wife was 
basically a nice person, an extrovert and fond of 
friends. The marriage itself was safe and after a 
few months, he would be reunited with her. He 
then told me he had consulted his lawyer friends 
and one of them had said he could divorce his 
wife on the ground of adultery by carefully using 
the fact she was an extrovert. I told him this was 
unfair and her own chart showed she was a 


faithful wife and a little persuasion from a com- 
mon friend would help. About 6 months later, he 
wrote to say they were now living together and he 
had set aside the lawyer's advice and gone by 
astrological counselling. 

Can one therefore call jurisprudence a fraud? 

You can go on and on in this refrain taking 
every single profession under the sun and you 
will be shocked by the negative side that every 
profession has to it. But the point here is, I 
repeat, why single out Astrology? The arguments 
against Astrology speak of an obsession, may be 
because of some personal experience, but that is 
no valid argument against Astrology. 

The attacks on Astrology are both ill-con- 
ceived and highly biased. The critics show by 
their arguments not only their utter ignorance of 
the basics of the science of Astrology but also an 
absence of an open mind which is the hallmark 
of a true thinker and intellectual. 


Astrology In Moscow 


By Bill Keller 


Astrology ts not taboo tn Soviet Russta. Sophisticated 
Muscovites swap astrological signs at parties. Horoscopes 
are a hot item in the weekly public market Young engineers 
devote their free time for running astrological computer 
progranuies. 

In a one-room clinic a few paces from Moscow's most 
popular pedestrian mall, Dzhuna Davitashvili, celebrity 
psychic healer, gesticulates over the head of a deaf and 
blind man, as if pulling invisible weeds from his cranium. 


The criticism against Astrology by so-called 
rationalists (which term includes some officially 
designated scientists as well) proceeds from a 
point of ignorance. In the first place, it is due to 
an absence of knowledge of even the fundamen- 
tals of the science. The second, and this is more 
serious, is a mistaken belief that anything that is 
beyond the known laws of science is not science 
at all. What such critics forget is sctence, at any 
point of time, is both incomplete and inconsistent 
Where a fact or a phenomena keeps occurring 
but there is no explanation, only a fool would 
dismiss the fact itself. A true scientist, in con- 
trast, would try to expand the frontiers of science 
by hard work and study, investigating into the 
heart of the phenomena. 


No sane man with even an inkling of scien- 
tific temper will shut his eyes off to phenomena 
which he cannot explain. Newton, talking of 
gravitation, said "Action at a distance can only be 
described; it cannot be explained." Gravitation 


Watched by a rapt crowd, she works unself-consclous- 
ly, chattering about the hundreds of people, high. and low. 
who flock to her for a sample of the healing touch she rails 
Effect D. for Dzhuna. 

In the United States, land of all faiths, people laugh at 
Nancy Reagan for consulting an astrologer. But in the 
Soviet Union, land of scientific materialism, Dzhuna 
Davltashvill has a state business license, an honored spot 
on the Soviet Peace Committee and a coterie of friends that 
includes scientists, artists, Journaltsts and tntellectuals. 

Horoscopes, folk medicine, psychic healing and _ all 
manner of mysticism occupy a prominent place in Soviet 
society. 


and Its laws are known to everyone but no one 
knows why gravity exists, why celestial bodies 
with mass have the property of gravitation. 
Anyone who says that there is no way to explain 
the role of planets in human destiny and thinks 
that this is a valid argument against Astrology is 
fooling no one but himself. In seience, facts 
precede theories. Apples fall to the ground; so do 
material objects and unsupported bodies. Taking 
this fact into account Newton began his inves- 
tigations and came up with the law of gravitation. 
He attributed gravitation to the forces of mutual 
attraction between material objects. Later, when 
Einstein came on the scene he explained the 
same phenomenon as due to the curvature of 
space in the rieTghborjiood of the material object. 
Both were great scientists. Yet each had his own 
theory which the respective contemporary scien- 
tific community accepted. How can the same 
phenomena have two divergent scientific explana- 
tions? Both may be wrong, or, one may be right. 


“it is our secret silliness", said the wife of a govern- 
ment official, who nonetheless noted that as soon as Mik- 
hail S. Gorbachev became the Soviet leader, she looked up 
his sign. He is a Pisces. 

"Leave Nancy Reagan alone,” the woman admonished. 

Except in the unlikely event that some Kremlin 
counterpart of Donald T.Regan writes a tell-all book, it may 
never be known whether astral omens guide Soviet affairs of 
state. Mr. Regan, the former White House Chief of staff, 
says that has sometimes been the case in the Regan family. 

Dzhuna Davitashvili, who prefers to go by the personal 
name she gave herself because “Yevgenia” seemed inade- 
quate to her gift, reputedly was summoned to the bedside of 


Only time and another more brilliant explanation 
from another scientist can tell. But .the facts 
which these theories seek to explain are beyond 
doubt. If they had not existed, no one would have 
bothered to find out why they happened at all. 
This brings us to the crucial truth that the func- 
tion of science is not to ask hypothetical ques- 
tions but to explain admitted facts. Do those 
who question Astrology accept the facts put 
forth by the astrologer? If not, they have no 
business to waste his time with their idle ques- 
tions. As a scientist in his own night, he has 
every right to reject the idle queries of the 
prejudiced critic. 

Swami Abhedananda, a fire-brand brother- 
monk of Swami Vivekananda, would, talking of 
Astrology, tell his talented American audiences 
"So the study of this science is beneficial to 
mankind and for that reason r thought that I 
would give you an idea and open your views and 
your minds to the universal laws and the highest 


Leonid I. Brezhnev when he was slipping beyond the help of 
conventional medicine. Dzhuna carefully does not deny this 
report. 

Whatever Mr. Gorbachev and his wife, Raisa, make of 
the occult sciences, his constitnents seem to feel that such 
arcana explain at least as much about life as Marx and 
Lentn ever did. Sophisticated Muscovites swap astrological 
signs at dinner parties, horoscopes are a hot ttem at the 
weekly public market in Izmailovo Park, and at one Moscow 
scientific institute a young engineer says he and hts friends 
spend most of their free Ume running astrological computer 
programs for themselves and friends. 


10 


spiritual truths which are hidden behind the sur- 
face of the phenomenal world... After studying 
this you may become more superstitious and you 
may feel you are like a slave to the physical con- 
ditions of this planetary influence, but Vedanta 
teaches the will of the human-beings is all power- 
ful, and if you hold the thought and bring out 
the soul's power, you will be able to overcome all 
these natural influences... That is also taught in 
our country (in India). If an astrologer would cast 
your horoscope, he would tell you. 'these are the 
conditions but there is the way out of it, and you 
can overcome these conditions by performing the 
spiritual practices or observing the spiritual 
laws." 

Swami Abhedananda would go on "In this age 
of skepticism and agnosticism we may laugh at 
the claims of the science of true astronomy, but 
it is certainly a study of the power fascination 
which it has extended over the greatest men. 
through 7000 to 8000 years, and a vast number 


A Moscow based New Yorker was astonished recently 
when a renowned physicist who had received permission to 
emigrate to the United States asked, as a parting favour, 
advice on where to get his horoscope done tn New York. 

Oleg, 49, an astrology buff encountered Thursday on 
the Arbat mall aronnd the corner, from Dzhuna's stndio 
professed to have retired a few years ago after winning 
about $1,50,000 in the state lottery using a system dictated 
by the stars and planets. He said he was delighted to hear 
on a Voice of America radio broadcast that Mrs. Reagan 
shared his interest... 


11 


of authenticated fulfilment of prophecies by 
astrologers which have been handed down 
through generations will prove that there is some 
underlying truth at the bottom of its claims." 

In fact, it is childish for an adult to rave and 
rant about a subject about which he knows noth- 
ing. Most of these rationalists are obscurantists 
who will refuse to see anything that is beyond 
their individual power of comprehension. This is 
very tragic indeed for science cannot be struc- 
tured to fit Into the limited brain-corridors of a 
handful of confused individuals. However, we 
must, when relating to such men remember they 
are very much human and when their passions 
are excited, they may go off at a tangent and 
believe their personal prejudices define the ul- 
timate boundaries of science. 


Although astrology is officially frowned upon in the 
Soviet Encyclopedia as a "false science", scholarly works 
have been devoted to such subjects as the healing proper- 
ties of mumiyo, a tar-like resin collected from the places 
wounded animals go to die. 

Parapsychology is accorded serious discussion in the 
Soviet Academy of Sciences. When Soviet newspapers or 
television feature practitioners such as Dzhuna, as the hip 
late-night program "Vzglyad" did recently, there is nary a 
hint of smugness... 

Her forecast is bright: "Just see what kind of 
friendship will blossom between Reagan and Gorbachev. 
They will be like brothers. That's what the stars show me". 
NYTS 


Courtesy : NagpurTimes(29.5.88) 


12 


CHAPTER TWO 


WHY SINGLE OUT 
ASTROLOGY—I 


Gayatri Devi Vasudev 


Simple Truths about Astrology are being con- 
firmed by recent findings by scientists in the 
West. 

In Astrology, the Moon is said to rule the 
mind and described as manahkaraka. Afflictions 
to the Moon give rise to various kinds of mental 
characteristics. The Moon with Venus makes one 
pleasant, friendly, fond of ease. The Moon with 
Mars gives an aggressive nature, restless and 
sometimes, dictatorial. It also makes one In- 
tolerant of others' views. Instead of Mars if we 
substitute Jupiter we havg a benign, tolerant, ex- 
pansive personality, balanced in outlook. The 
Moon and Saturn together make one rigid In out- 
look, over-cautious and pessimistic. 


Scientists In the West have now confirmed 
the role of the Moon In defining mental states. 
And they offer an explanation as well. 

The earth Is made up of about 80 percent 
water and 20 percent inorganic matter. When the 
Sun and the Moon exert their combined pull on 
the earth there are high tides. When the com- 
bined pull of the Sun and the Moon {ts low, there 
are low tides. The joint pull of the Sun and the 
Moon is maximum when they are moving towards 
a conjunction (0°). When the two are 90° apart. 


13 


the combined influence of their gravitational 
fields is lowest and this acting on the watery sur- 
faces of the ocean leads to low tides. In astrologi- 
cal language the 180° position’of the Sun and the 
Moon is called Pournamtand the 0° position of 
the two is called Amavasya. Like-wise when the 
distance between the two is 90°. astrologically it 
is called Ashtami, and like the watery surfaces 
the fluids in the human body are also in a state 
of relative rest. That is why during Ashtami 
medication Is advised. by the ancients as per the 
dictum Ashtamt vyadhinasini. During the con- 
junction and opposition of the Sun and the Moon 
the oceanic surfaces are subjected to a mighty 
pull and so. rise up in high tides. The composi- 
tion of the human body is similiar to the earth - 
80 percent fluid. About these periods, the brain 
fluid encased in a tough case, the skull, is also 
subjected to the combined gravitational pull of 
the luminaries. As a result it is thrown into tur- 
bulence within the walls of the skull leading to 
tension and impaired Judgment. That is why 
about these two periods there is an increased in- 
cidence of family tensions, accidents, crime.’ 


Jyotisha Sastra which is loosely translated as 
Astrology is a study of the correlations of the 
planetary positions and terrestrial phenomena. 
The word planet is a misfit and the right word 
would be graha. Like Dharma, graha, has no 
proper English equivalent. 

There are 9 grahas of importance and the 
mutual juxtapositions of these planets at birth 
carry the blue-print of an individual's future. 


14 


The ancients knew that there were countless 
celestial bodies in the heavens but they pitched 
on to only 9. known as Navagrahas, as influenc- 
ing life on earth. They addressed God or the Cos- 
mic Being as Akhilanda Koti Brahmanda Nayaka 
meaning ‘Lord or Master of infinite crores of 
Brahmandas or Cosmic Eggs'. This expression 
alone is evidence of the fact that the ancients 
knew of the existence of grahas, other than the 
Navagrahas. but which they did not deem neces- 
sary for analysing birth-charts. 

A graha may be described as not only a 
material body with a field of force of its own but 
also as a geometric point with a field of force. In 
this respect, not only Mars, Venus, Jupiter, 
Saturn, Mercury but also the Sun and the Moon 
are grahas. Rahu and Ketu, the points of inter- 
section of the ecliptic and the Moon's orbit round 
the earth are also included in the Navagrahas. 


A question often asked is why not Include the 
now discovered trans-saturnine planets— Pluto, 
Neptune and Uranus in the scheme of Jyotisha. 
As I have said earlier only 9 grahas were con- 
sidered “Important and _ others rejected for 
astrological purposes. Therefore, the question it- 
self ts redundant. The mere fact that they were 
discovered recently cannot imply they were not 
known to our ancients. Only our ancients did not 
consider them important enough. 


Recent findings now tell us how these trans- 
saturnine planets are dissimilar from the grahas 
recognised in Jyotisha. A zodiac is defined as a 
belt extending to 9 degrees on either side of the 


15 


ecliptic over which the planets (grahas) are said 
to move. This belt therefore has a latitudinal limit 
of about 10 degrees, north or south. Pluto's orbit 
is inclined 17° to the ecliptic. Therefore, how can 
anyone include Pluto in the Navagrahas (confined 
to a belt of 9° on either side of the ecliptic) when 
Pluto is orbiting outside the zodiac. The latitude 
of none of the Navagrahas exceeds 7 degrees. Per- 
haps this could be why Pluto was not included 
amongst the Navagrahas. It is also believed by 
modern astronomers that taking into account 
Pluto's high orbital inclination and eccentricity, 
its small mass and other properties that it may 
not be a planet at all but only an escaped satel- 
lite of Neptune. it is possible, in future, 
astronomers will come up with facts Justifying the 
exclusion of Neputne and Uranus from the 
Navagraha scheme. But until then let us bear in 
mind that absence of evidence is not evidence of ab- 
sence (of proof), A Russian scientist Prof. A.L. 
Chizevskiy (1892-1964) found there was a cor- 
relation between sunspot activity and human af- 
fairs. As a result he founded “heliobiology”, which 
in our language Is Jyotisha. 

The Soviet scientist V. Desyatov relates 
suicides and automobile accidents to solar flares. 
Every time there is a peak in_ solar flares, 
suicides go up by a factor of four on the following 
day. 

Solar activity occurs in 11 years cycles with a 
maxima and minima every 5 1/2 years. The 
geocentric period of Jupiter is also a 11-year 


16 


cycle. This way a correlation between Jupiter and 
mundane events can also be established. 

There are hundreds of astrological dicta that 
work in actual practice. Anyone can verify for 
himself these astrological dicta. ,Now, where are 
these dicta to be found? 

The oldest known work and which is popular- 
ly relied upon is Brihat Parasara Hora, dating 
back to the Pre-Mahabharata period. Dicta found 
in this work are astrological dicta and anyone 
keen on investigating into the truth of Astrology 
must experiment on these. 

Some critics of Astrology very naively advance 
the argument that all buses which start in 
Rahukalam do not meet with accidents ‘and 
therefore Astrology is nonsense. Whoever said 
this belief has an astrological background? Let 
those critics give us the reference of the work 
that carries this pseudo-astrological enunciation. 
This is not an astrological dictum at all and is as 
true or false as the belief that all men who were 
Gandhi topies are all honest or plain rogues. 


More important, anyone who is keen on test- 
ing astrological laws must know the laws in the 
first place. Without Knowing that if one goes on 
making up something and then proves it wrong, 
what has that to do with Astrology? It proves 
nothing against Astrology. All that it proves Is the 
ignorance of the one airing these non-existent 
rules. And some 'scientists' and rationalists 
are doing just that. 


17 


Certain stars such as Jyeshta, Moola etc. are 
classified as not good and many critics pounce on 
this to attack Astrology. In order to understand 
this classification we have to start at the very 
beginning. This classification is of relevance only 
at the time' of matching charts for marriage. And 
the part played by this classification in the total 
process of matching is a mere 2 to 4 percent. 
Further, the blemish does not extend to the en- 
tire Nakshatra. A constellation is 13° 20' of arc 
and is divided into 4 equal parts, each of 3° 20° 
duration. Each arc of 3° 20' Is called a pada. 
Only certain padas of certain Nakshatras are said 
to be blemished. The following padas of the fol- 
lowing Nakshatras come under this rule: 

Moola (lst pada) : Aslesha (1st pada] 

Jyeshta (lst pada) : Visakha (4th pada) 

And the blemish is not absolute. Where the 
other party's chart has neutralizing Influences, it 
loses Its sting. This is the purpose of matching 
charts. 


Kuta agreement also comes in for. attack. 
Many people mistakenly believe that if Kuta 
agreement is lacking and a count of less than 18 
against 36.5 is obtained, the match is best 
dropped. This test of Kuta agreement is only one 
of 8 factors considered while matching for mar- 
riages. Not all these factors are of equal impor- 
tance. Dosha Samya or balancing of afflictions in 
the 2 charts is second only to an approximate es- 
timate of longevity In the 2 charts. The Kuta test 
is only about 10 to 12 percent of the total match- 


18 


ing process. Most critics of astrological matching 
of charts are blissfully unaware of these facts. 

While testing horoscopes for marriage, an 
overall assessment of health is also important. In 
the chart of an energetic young man brought to 
me by my friend for his daughter, I found 
material prosperity was good. But Venus, who 
has an important say in matters relating to mar- 
riage, had two maleflcs in the 7th from it. This 
meant, unless there were countering features in 
the girl's chart, conjugal life would be adversely 
afflicted and perhaps, even denied. I found no 
such features in the girl's chart. However, my 
friend was swayed by other considerations and 
went ahead with the marriage. Ten days after the 
marriage he came running to me saying that the 
girl had found the boy incapable of conjugal life. 
This is the kind of tragedy astrological counsell- 
ing can avert. 


If horoscopes are matched only on the basis 
of gunas by some astrologers, then there is noth- 
ing to defend except to say they are doing disser- 


Financial Astrology Popular in Tokyo 

Tokyo: Ask some Tokyo currency dealers what the US 
dollar is going to do next and they will reply with convic- 
tion: Heaven knows. 

Faced with the task of a second-guessing the financial 
markets, some dealers in Tokyo are turning increasingly to 
the stars to guide their decisions on when to buy and sell. 

A Japanese bank specialist on economic fundamentals 
analysis for foreign exchange rates said his department 


used financial Astrology to predict currency fluctuation. 


19 


vice to Astrology. But every profession has its 
quota of misfits and incompetents and for this 
reason can we dismiss the discipline itself as 
nonsense? If this tendency {is more apparent 
amongst astrologers, it is only because the media 
plays it up. Otherwise let people investigate into 
the tragedies wrought by medical and legal men 
as well as educationalists and they will be ap- 
palled at the high incidence in these areas. 

A horoscope is a guide to abilities and draw- 
backs. Irrespective of whether one Is male or 
female, the picture that a horoscope paints is the 
true picture of an individual. Unfortunately 
during the post-1950's, the chauvinist male 
found the horoscope often showed his own draw- 
backs as well as highlighting the plus points of 
his wife. This was something domineering brutish 
husbands did not relish and so, they set about 
trying to run down Astrology to serve their own 
selfish ends. This was how the rumblings against 
Astrology first began and still continue in certain 
sections of men. This was fanned by the western 


"It is a part of our bank's strategy for predicting the 
dollar's outlook" , the specialist said. 

The manager of a major Japanese bank's treasury sec- 
tion said he also uses Astrology in trading. 

“You know, J.P. Morgan, founder of Morgan Guaranty 
Trust Company, said that a millionaire does not belfeve in 
financial Astrology, but a billionaire does," he said. 

Like other star-strnck dealers , he declined to allow 
the publication of his name, presumably concerned that 
clients might not be universally impressed. 


20 


education many men received in our country. 
While they themselves led highly westernised 
lives, they wanted their wives to remain in a per- 
manent state of ignorance so that their male 
tyranny could go unchecked. It was precisely to 
perpetuate a state of permanent feminine sub- 
jugation and male domination that many such 
so-called educated men starting crying hoarse 
against horoscopes and matching of horoscopes. 
Many a-time, an honest astrologer would reject 
the boy's chart as being of a womaniser. 
debauchee, or suffering from impotence or of 
being extremely cruel in, nature or avaricious for 
dowry. Naturally greedy men resented the role of 
Astrology which frustrated their plans to grab 
money under the excuse of marriage. Women's 
organisations must fight not only social evils 
such as dowry but also the more subtle and in- 
sidious plans of such men who know that by dis- 
pensing with horoscope- matching, they can fool 
the parents of the brides. 


"We can predict direction of exchange rates, stock and 
bond prices from planetary aspects," the manager at a 
Japanese Bank said. 


"For example, you can predict the turning point for the 
dollar/yen rate from relationships between Earth, Mercury 
and Uranus,” he added. 


The dollar is supposed to change direction when the 
angle between Mercury and Uranus ts at 30, 45, 60, 90. 
120, 135,150 and 180 degrees, which happens once or 
twice every month he said., 


21 


In another case of” horoscope matching 
brought to me, the father was eager to get his 
daughter married to a rich man's son. He satd 
his priest had said the kuta agreement was good 
between the two charts and showed harmony. 
There are many factors, other than kuta, that 
need to be studied while judging horoscopes for 
marriage. One of them is the psyche of the in- 
dividual. The chart In question, indeed, had its 
plus points but a study of the 4th house and the 
boy's Moon Joining Mars, Saturn and Rahu in the 
7th left me little doubt of the boy's avaricious 
and heartless mental disposition. It also showed 
promiscuous personal:habits. So I hinted.to the 
girl's father the drawbacks of the chart and 
rejected it. The father of the girl, however was 
carried away by pictures of his daughter living 
like a queen with this rich boy. So the marriage 
was performed at great expense. The girl soon 
found that her husband had affairs with just 
about everyone who was willing and whom he 
met in his work-a-day life. When she protested, 


The theory is that planets radiate various magnetic 
waves which are belfeved to affect everything on the earth 
Including human beings and _ ffinancial markets, the 
manager said. G 

Mars 1s a symbol of fierceness in mythology, but to 
astrologically-minded dealers it Implies “restrained 


monetary policy," a bearish factor for the financial markets. 

Capricorn 1s also deeply related to monetary policy, 
while Uranus indicates sudden changes in exchange rates, 
bonds, stocks and other fi::anclal markets. 


22 


he .began beating her with his belt. Not satisfied, 
he even tried to get some business deals through 
by trying to use her. This was the last straw and 
the poor girl came back to her now totally disil-, 
lusioned parents. Many girls, thanks to the 
scrutiny of horoscopes before marriage, have es- 
caped such tragedies. Many greedy men, on the 
other hand, resent horoscope matching under the 
garb of scientific temper. A horoscope reveals all 
and men shy away from it because it can reveal 
much more than they would like their future in- 
laws and brides to know. Women's organisations 
in the country must insist on a horoscopic study 
of the groom to ensure their fellow-women do not 
suffer at the hands of greedy brutes. Women's ac- 
tivist groups must ensure horoscopes are 
matched so that their sisters everywhere are 
protected from dangerous man and in-laws. 


Mercury and Uranus being in parallel ts bearish for 
the dollar, and on December 10 last year, when they were 
so aligned the dollar began to fall sharply from 132 yen 
towards its post war low of 120.45 yen reached in early 
January, the manager said. 

But the crystal ball is sometimes Just as fallible as 
economic analysis. 

The manager at the US securities house said he had 
been studying the prtnctples of financial astrology for 10 
years. 


23 


The uses of horoscope-analysis are infinite. 
The wise man will sift the rice from the chaff and 
not throw out the baby with the bath water as 


many ill-informed critics of the science are trying 
to advocate. 


The use of Astrology for trading is getting popular 
among Tokyo dealers, but the problem is that it takes many 
years for dealers to be able to use the Astrology, properly 
because it is very complicated, he said. - Reuter 


24 
CHAPTER THREE 
PROOF OF THE PUDDING 


K.N. Rao, LA.ASS. 


Dr. B.V. Raman's Amazing Achievements in 
Forecasting World Events 


(Son of late Mr. K. Rama Rao, the well-known 
founder and editor of National Herald; was in a 
responsible position in the Delhi Corporation; 
keenly interested in our ancient culture). 


I met Dr. B.V. Raman for the first time and 
introduced myself to him on December 26,, 1982. 
in Delhi. But I have read his writing so closely for 
so many years that I was absolutely amazed that 
so brilliant a person with so amazing a record, 
instead of being honoured with Bharat Ratna in 
this country should have been attacked by the 
pseudo-intellectuals in the Indo-Anglican lineage 
of the English press in India. The explanation for 
this, of course, flows from ‘a rather inherent 
slavish mentality of persons who have privately 
depended upon Astrology but have publicly 
denounced it. 

Without knowing Dr. Raman personally, and 
after critically appraising his achievements for 
the last [0 years, i once wrote a long article 'Is 
Astrology a Hoax’ for the Search-light, Patna, and 
not, in THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE. The October 
1974 issue of THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 


25 


reproduced my article when a professor of Patna 
University sent it to the Magazine. What 1 want to 
clarify here is that I neither wrote for the THE 
ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE nor personally knew 
Dr.Raman, till I had made my own absolutely 
honest assessment about his greatness. 

What is my assessment? He is In the history 
of the world of at least the last four hundred 
years, the greatest among successful astrologers; 
the greatest among the successful teachers of 
Astrology, particularly applied Astrology. through 
his books and writings 'in THE ASTROLOGICAL 
MAGAZINE; and the greatest promoter of the cause 
of Astrology through the encouragement he has 
given to others. 


To explain why I had to make this assess- 
ment I have to talk about the critics of Astrology 
and astrologers. They fall into the following 
categories: 

(A) Well-meaning critics: Some, like my father, 
late Mr. K. Rama Rao, founder-editor of the Na- 
tional Herald, and later, editor of Search-light, 
Patna also, and many other papers, attacked 
Astrology because they found astrologers driving 
Indians into fatal inaction. My father did not see 
many good astrologers and had no benefit of 
seeing the evidence of great mundane astrological 
predictions. The late Mr. C Rajagopalachari who 
led a Rishi-like life. was. perhaps, prompted by 
the desire to save Indians from fatal inaction 
when he attacked astrologers. 


26 


After I learnt Astrology and gave many suc- 
cessful predictions myself. [ discovered that many 
of the professional astrologers. unlike a non- 
professional ltke me, commercially exploited the 
fear of the unknown of persons who consulted 
them. i personally, heartily, endorse even today 
the attack on astrologers as was done by my late 
father and the late Mr. C Rajagopalachari but I 
do not accept their attack on the great supra- 
science of Astrology. In so doing. I have the ad- 
vantage of seeing in my mother, an extraordinari- 
ly successful astrologer but, her area being non- 
mundane, she herself could not assess the great- 
ness of Dr. B.V. Raman with whom she some- 
times exchanged letters. It was my Jyotish Guru, 
Yogi Bhaskaranandji of Ahmedabad who told me 
that Dr. Raman was the greatest astrologer of the 
world. 


(B) Indo-Anglican critics : The Indo-Anglican 
streaks of the colonial days survive strongly in 
the Indian character, particularly among English 
knowing Indians. They have attacked Astrology ir- 
rationally. The astrologers can always silence 
them in at least 60 out of [00 cases through cor- 
rect predictions. 

(C) Modern critics: To preserve a modern 
image men like Pandit Nehru privately consulted 
astrologers directly or through men like Mr. Gul- 
zari Lal Nanda, but publicly attacked it. In view 
of this, many people in this country felt that Pan- 
dit Nehru did not believe in Astrology. An extract 
of the letter written by Pandit Nehru- on 


27 


29.8.1944 to his sister, Mrs. Krishna Hutheesing, 
is given here. It is self-explanatory. 

Letter No. 74 

From ; Jawaharlal Nehru - Ahmednagar Fort 

To : Krishna Hutheesing-20. Carmichael 
Road, Bombay. 29.8.44 

“In_my letter to Indu 1 suggested to her to 
ask you to get a proper horoscope made by a 
competent person. Such permanent records of the 
date and time of birth are desirable. As for the 
time, I suppose the proper solar time should be 
mentioned and not the artificial time which is 
being used outside now. War time is at least an 
hour ahead of the normal time." 

(Nehru's Letters to His Sister - edited with 
an introduction by Krishna Nehru Hutheesing- 
Faber and Faber 24 Russel Square. London.) 

Surprisingly this portion has been omitted by 
the editor of the letters of Pandit Nehru publish- 
ed by the Publications Division, Government of 
india, perhaps, in his over-anxiety to preserve the 
"secular image of Pandit Nehru". The editor exer- 
cised his selective judgement in a way as will dis- 
tort some facts of the personality of Nehru. 

(D) "Scientific " Critics: Irrational attacks have 
been made on Astrology by scientists and 
astronomers. The scientists, with their tremen- 
dous limitations, have no capacity to understand 
how supra-physical laws and pure scientific 
methodology get combined in Astrology. It is 
these scientists that men like me will keep on 
challenging day in and day out, and, other 


28 


astrologers must join me by exhibiting their suc- 
cesses on the predictive side with scientific ex- 
planation. Basically, failures of the western 
Astrologers on the predictive side have been 
responsible for attacks on Astrology. If the 
western astrologers had properly learnt the prin- 
ciples of Hindu Jyotisha and developed enough 
predictive powers such an attack could never 
have been made. 

(E) Astronomer-critic:I reserve astronomers as 
a special category of men who, having learnt so 
much already about planets, must have found 
themselves lacking in higher intellectual faculties 
and gifts for astrological predictions. 

2. Limitations: Constraints: in discussing Dr. 
Raman, let me first mention the limitations and 
constraints within which an astrologer has to 
work. This must be appreciated, intelligently, tn 
assessing the merit of an astrologer. 

(A) Birth-time: The correct time of the birth of 
an individual, a political party, independence ofa 
nation, signing of an agreement etc. is rarely 


out of such an awkward situation by giving 
predictions on the basis of the Moon, as he did, 
in the case of Vietnam as early as 1946 and 
predicted continuous violence, blood-stained his- 
tory which would not be over till 1975. It was 
only im [1976 that there was a reunification of 


“crimes against humanity" were committed. But 
in making predictions on the basis of the Moon 
alone, and the rising sign, Dr. Raman partly suc- 


29 


ceeded and partly failed in some prediction he 
made about political’ parties of India. Since 
people in India were interested in the political fu- 
ture of their own country, part- failures of Dr. 
Raman have been overemphasized and his much 
greater and more outstanding successes have not 
been discussed. This was an unscientific ap- 
praisal and to rectify the imbalane. I decided to 
tabulate his great predictions, not without men- 
tioning causes for his failed predictions without 
which such an appraisal would become one 
sided. 

Dr. Raman got the wrong time of Nixon when 
he predicted victory for Him in 1960. Fortunately 
this was corrected by U.S. astrologers after which 
Dr. Raman made his world famous predictions 
about Mr. Nixon winning his re-election in 1972 
but not completing his term. Yet Dr. Raman's 
failures teach valuable lessons in Astrology be- 
cause he still imparts Astrological knowledge 
when he discusses a horoscope - a wrong horo- 
scope, to risk his reputation, to justify his sense 
of adventure, to Justify the aspect of Mars on his 
own birth Ascendant. 

(B) Birth details: In many cases, the birth 
details, the day. month and year of ,important 
men of the world are not available. To make 
predictions about them on the basis only of the 
national horoscope is not the safest course al- 
ways, through Dr. Raman has made many such 
brilliant predictions about the destiny of "the 
men of destiny". 


30 


(C) Supplementary researches: There is no 
one else in the country or in the world whose re- 
searches in mundane Astrology could help Dr.. 
Raman. Small men like me, who have also given 
some successful predictions, have borrowed from 
him, even "stolen his.predictions and passed 
them on as ours". We have been intellectually 
dishonest. If we had done our own researches 
and passed them to Dr. Raman for publication in 
his famous THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE it would 
have served the larger and nobler cause of Hindu 
Jyotisha. 

(D) Margin for failure: All scientists particular- 
ly doctors have areas of failure for which we pro- 
vide a percentage. Why do we want an astrologer 
to give hundred percent correct predictions only? 
Dr. Raman's failure to predict in 1971 and again 
in 1980, the return of Mrs. Indira Gandhi to 
power with a thumping majority is an instance 
which will show that we have not helped Dr. 
Raman with our researches based on dependable 
data. Falling back upon his own great researches, 
he was utilising wrong data of political parties 
and even wrong horoscopes of political rivals of 
Mrs. Indira Gandhi sometimes. In other words, 
for a full assessment of political fortunes full 
details about individual horoscopes and political 
parties have never been available to Dr. Raman 
or. for that matter, to any astrologer. 

3. 1 have discussed the failures of Dr. Raman 
which have been actually very few. But 1 am 
more interested in projecting his successes which 


31 


must have been perhaps above 80% if his career 
average is taken. 

4. Aims: The specific aims of my assessment 
of Dr. Raman's are as follows: 

(a) Eclipses: The impression created by physi- 
cal scientists and astronomers that eclipses have 
no effect on the destiny of nations and men of 
destiny will get exploded after actual instances of 
such predictions made are seen in the tabulated 
summary. 


(b) Astrologer-adviser: Hindu Sastras laid em- 
phasis on a king having the benefit of objective 
astrological assessment of the future for shaping 
state policies. Looking at the instance given in 
both tables, the value of the advice given in 
Hindu Sastras will be appreciated. 

(c) Superior intelligence : With so many in- 
telligence agencies in so many countries 
functioning all over the world with all their 
man-power and_ researches, their failures 
should be compared with the failure of one In- 
dividual. Dr.Raman, who, in his discussion of 
global trends and tensions, year after year 
since 1937, has predicted what intelligence 
agencies could not foresee. It may appear enig- 
matic to the physical-sclence-afflicted-inteilect 
of an average educated man anywhere in the 
world today that an Indian astrologer, sitting 
in Bangalore, casting horoscopes, is able to 
collect more intelligence from planetary in- 
dications, and more successfully, in most of 
the cases. 


32 


(d) Supra-scientific tradition: And the purpose 
also is to show that the Hindu tradition based on 
Sastras is supra-scientific: Hindu Jyotisha proves 
it; through this proof, the supra-_ scientific 
validity of the Hindu tradition stands vindicated, 
with brilliance, through the predictions of Dr. 
Raman. 

(e) Benefit to humanity: The benefit that flows 
to humanity from the acceptance of a supra- 
science is obvious. To serve the larger interests of 
mankind, and. at the same time wherever neces- 
sary, to attack the manifold superstitions 
prevalent in modern society through excessive 
influence of physical scientists and astronomers, 
who have attacked Astrology. I am giving two 
Tables here. 


Table I: Table I is a bird's eye view of some of 
his great predictions among thousands. I have 
chosen such predictions as linger in public 
memory. The small instances given are of recent 
years, particularly Indian, so that readers will be 
able to verify them immediately. 

Table H: The difference between astrological 
foresight and historical hindsight cannot be _un- 
derstood and appreciated by the modern man, to- 
tally blind and cynical in his- materialistic pur- 
suits, in the technology-corrupted age of ours un- 
less he knows that in Astrology there is a 
method, a discussion, a manner of drawing con- 
clusions before actual prediction is given, and 
that even if 60% of such predictions come out 
correct, this achievement is much greater than 
the achievement of others who employ vaster 


33 


resources in terms of men, power and money-and 
achieve,a much lower percentage of success. 

How does this amazingly great astrologer 
make his predictions? What is the method? Let 
that be described briefly. 

(A) Classical Basis: (a) He adopts Hindu 
Lunar Saka year for his predictions of all the 
countries of the world. It is amazing that the 
basis of the Hindu New Year should apply so ac- 
curately to predictions given about all the 
countries of the world - Hindu, Buddhist, Mus- 
lim. Christian, Jew etc. Instances have been 
given in Table I. 

(b) The beginning of the Hindu-Birth Year is 
converted into local meantime for the capital of 
the country about which predictions are given. 

(c) The Navamsas for all these are also cast. 

(a) The Hindu system of planetary cabinet for 
the year is mentioned and the broad general in- 
dications and promises’ for the New Year 
delineated. 

(B) Traditional Methods: Along with the classi- 
cal Hindu methods Dr. Raman uses the time- 
tested traditional methods given, among others, 
by the great Varahamihira thus: 

(a) The transits of planets, particularly major 
planets like Saturn, Jupiter and Rahu, in dif- 
ferent Rasis give their unfailing results in the 
zodiacal areas concerned. 

(b} The transit of planets into Nakshatras is 
also pointed out wherever and whenever neces- 
sary as given by Varahamihira. 


34 


(c) The effect of eclipses as given by Varaha 
Mihira has been used very brilliantly by Dr. 
Raman in some of his most sensational predic- 
tions like fall of Bhutto, fall of Morarji; 
earthquakes in Iran and China. 

(C) Neo-classical basis: Dr. Raman is the 
greatest researcher in Mundane Astrology in the 
last 400 years of human history. He never makes 
any departure from the classical frame of the 
text- books. But within this classical frame, he 
introduces innovative style, tests them vigorously 
and gives his results. The features of his neo- 
classicism are as follows: 

(a) He takes into consideration the changed 
boundaries of India; therefore, departing from 
Varahamihira. he would give to Goa Satabhisha 
Nakshatra and Aquarius Rasi; to West Bengal 
Mrigasira (3). Gemini Rasi. and on this basis, 
after testing it with historical incidents begins to 
give predictions about future which come out cor- 
rect brilliantly. 

(D) Additional material: To all these, he adds 
additional astrological data like the following: 

(a) The formation of a state in India like, say, 
Andhra. or the emergence of a country like. say. 
India or Pakistan on the attainment of their inde- 
pendence. 

(b) The oath-taking ceremony of a cabinet 
newly formed or of an important dignitary; for in- 
stance, on the basis of the oath-taking ceremony 
of Mr. Sanjiva Reddy. the former President of 
India, he predicted about his ailment for which 


35 


he had to go to U.S.A. for a major surgical opera- 
tion. 

(c) Through experimentation again Dr. Raman 
has reduced the Vimshottari Mahadasa of 120 
years into five years proportionately, it being the 
period of the life of a new Government under In- 
dian Parliamentary System; and on the basis, 
perhaps, he predicted brilliantly when the late 
Mr. Lal Bahadur Shastrl assumed the office of 
the Prime Minister that his cabinet was not likely 
to last more than one year. 


How by applying these methods he discusses 
the finer points of Astrology and not merely 
foresees the coming events but takes along with 
him Astrology-knowing readers 1s illustrated in 
Table HW. 

In his long, now nearly 50 years of astrologi- 
cal career, he must have written at least 400 
editorials on mundane matters affecting the his- 
tory of the world. 

Five examples have only been chosen here to 
give to readers only an idea of the depth, range, 
brilliance and pre-visions, which Hindu Jyotisha 
gives without the use of Pluto, Neptune and 
Uranus. The first example shows how astrological 
foresight is more dependable; second why the 
astrological vision is superior to the foresight of 
statesmen; the third, how an astrologer can sift 
from a complex combination of planets the pre- 
dictable events and allay the panic created by 
alarmist-astrologers and astronomers; the fourth 
how research in Astrology is done and applied; 


36 


and the fifth how ancient astrological formulae 
are eternally modem, and so brilliant. 

Inferences that flow from both Tables will 
very clearly establish the following: 

(A) Eclipses: The effects of eclipses on destiny 
of man and nation in causing rise and the fall of 
important men. earthquakes, railway accidents 
and railways’ strikes. Out of the 110 instances 
given in the Table. I have endeavoured to collect 
different bases for the predictions given to show 
the extraordinarily brilliant range of Hindu 
Jyotisha and the varieties of approaches that can 
be made to arrive at results. For instance, the 
various methods through which the predictions 
have been made by Dr. Raman would fall into 
three broad categories: 


(a) The pure classical category when he 
quotes from the Sastras and applies them in a 
practical way thus: 

(i) The Vimshottari Mahadasa as applied to 
different vargas: see predictions about the deaths 
of Hitler and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and the 
fall from power of Malenkov and Khruschev. 

(i!) Use of sensitive points as given in ancient 
Hindu classical texts (see in Table II the instan- 
ces of such formula being applied to predict the 
death of Indian National Congress of 1885 in the 
period between 1963-1970). 

(ill) The effect of yogas-raja, arishta. maraka- 
in all types of horoscopes. 

(b) Researchers : Dr. Raman has given to his 
readers the benefits of his researches time and 


37 


again. See for instance, his research on 
‘Planetary Combinations' for the breaking out of a 
war and the analysis of the Ashtagraha (eight- 
planet combination of February 1962) and the 
death of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. 

(c) Synthesis : A skillful use of the Mahadasa 
(Vimshottari) and transit of planets applied to dif- 
ferent vargas and synthesised with the planetary 
indications in the horoscopes of concerned tn- 
dividuals is the most scientific method for predic- 
tions, which is why Dr. Raman has maintained 
such a high average of successful predictions. 
[See his prediction about the short-life of the 
space-craft Bhaskara. (A.M., August 1979).} More 
important is the fact that even when his predic- 
tions have failed, he has taught his readers a 
scientific method of arriving at a prediction which 
makes it possible for some of his readers to arrive 
at results different from his, sometimes, even bet- 
ter. That is how a great teacher imparts training. 


As Mrs. Rukmini Arundale rescued Bharat. 
Natyam from the houses of devadasis and Vishnu 
Digamber Pulaskar and V.M. Bhakthande rescued 
Hindustani classical music from the houses of 
Muslim gharanas, so has Dr. Raman rescued 
Astrology from the houses of persons, who were 
slowly getting out of tune, with the ancient in‘el- 
lectual tradition of the Rishis, and were unable to 
apply those principles to modern complex life. 


Dr. Raman's achievement is greater than that 
of any other Indian. His revival of Hindu supra- 
scientific tradition very clearly proves that the 
word "revivalism" is not an act of resurrecting 


38 


what is historically archaic but the act of explain- 
ing what is eternally valid which, being non- 
physical. is less understood, therefore. less ap- 
preciated in this age of physical science and tech- 
nology when human 1I1.Q. functions at lower, 
physical, sex money-sleep level only. 


Table I 


Some Instances of Dr. B.V. Raman's Predictions 
1. These are all documented predictions answering 


the rigidest tests of historical 
scrutiny. 

2. Linked to the Hindu theory of cycle of births. a horoscope is the sum-total of karmas 
of past. allotted for the present incarnation of the native. Astrology Is of Indian 
origin. as it could not have originated. in any culture which does not believe in 
re-birth. its roots lie in the Vedas. the world's oldest books. 

3. 


How planets influence human affairs is discussed in Dr. B.V. Raman's Planetary 


Influences on Human Affairs. From his own writings some intances have been given 
here. 


39 


Zz 
a 
1 
I 


0) 


Genl. 


2. 


Refer to the 
issue of The 
Astrological 
Magazine 
2 
April 1947 


July 1962 


Prediction Fullfilment When 
(Persons) Predicted 

4 5 6 

Gandhyi's as- 3. India One year 

sassination 30-1-1948 before 

",.point to loss Gandhlji 

by assassina- was as- 

tion as violent —sasInated. 

Mars ts with 

Saturn in the 

12th. of a 

respected mass 

leader of the 

country". 

Pt Nehru's Died on 27+ More than 

death approach- 5-1964 two years 

ing 1-8-1963 to before 


16-5-1964 criti- 
cal 


+ 


Basis of 
Prediction 


7 
"Sade-sati 
third and 
maraka- 
dasa 


Mahadasa 
of Rahu- 
Ketu 


40 


Remarks 


8 
Gandhij|'s 
name was 
not men- 
tioned. 


Referred 
specifically 
as Prime 
Minister 


Jan. 1964 3. National = mourn- —do— —do- Hindu New 


ing vears horo- 
scope 
June 1964 4. “All these are -do- Two His natal “My Hife Is 
{read by us in not favourable months horoscope’ not going to 
May : written for his continu- before end so very 
in March 1964) ing in office” soon 
Pt.Nehru 
had said tn 
a Press Con- 
ference on 
22-5-1964, 
Five days 
after, he 
died. 
August 1964 ‘5. Lal Bahudur Died on One year Oath Held back 
Shastri's 11-1-1966 and seven taking discussion of 
Cabinet-Lon- months Ceremony his hor- 
gevity about before of the socope. 
one year- Cabinet : Revealed {t 
Shortlived Its inauspi-* Indirectly 
cious time Muhuhrta 
and day 1 I+ 
20 a.m. 9- 
6-1964 
Oath 


41 


42 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 

6. March 1966 6. The prediction —do— -do- Birth horo- 2nd October 
given to VVIPS scope 12- is not his 
was made 30 ghatis 9-birthday 
public 10-1904 

7. July 1967 7. President Zakir Died on 4- One year Time when Importance 
Hussain 5-1968 before the Oath of Muhurta 
"\.may not be was taken lke Item 

* able to com- No.5 


+ plete full term" 


March 1977 


Jan. 


1979 


8. 


9. 


Dasa of 
Saturn; Bhuktl 
of Maraka; 
Saturn aspect- 
ing, as the 7th 
and the 8th 
lord, the 10th 
house; transit 
of Saturn in 
Lagna and 
Mars in the 
8th dramatic 
reversal 


Falt of Morayji 
Desat, Eclipse 
falling on hts 
natal Moon in 
August 1979 


On 23-3- 
1977 Mrs. 
Indira 
Gandhi 
lost elec- 
tions 


Fell in 
July- 
August 
1979 


Two 
months 
before 


Ten 
months 
before 


Astrologers Veiled predlc 


only can tion again 
recognise ltke Nos. 1 
that it ap- and 5. He 
plied to does so in 
Mrs. Indira national 
Gandhi's interests 
horoscope 
Eclipse Horoscope 
analysis 
avoided Ike 
No. 5 


43 


1 2 

10. Issues of 
1964. 1965. 
1966, 1967. 
1968, 1969 

11. June 1978 


1. 


2. 


4 


Death of In- 
dian National 


Congress (1885) 


i Splitup of 
Janata Party 


5 


Parties 
Political. 
The great 
organisa- 
tion spillt 
in 1969. In 
1967 many 
north In- 
dian States 
had non- 
Congress 
Govts. 
Split in 
July 1979 


6 


Repeated 
year after 
year 


One year 
and two 
months 
before 


7 


The birth 
horoscope 
of the In- 
dian Na- 
tional Con- 
gress of 
1885. Dec. 


On the 
basis of 
the Moon 
in a horo- 
scope 
whose 
Lagna was 
donbtfnl 


44 


8 


importance 
of birthtime 
of a political 


party 


In 1971, Dr. 
Raman had 
made predic- 
tions on the 
basis of 
wrong horo- 
scope of 
political par- 
ties. When 
accused of 
wrong predic- 
tions he 


12. 


13. 


Jan. 1954 


Angust 1964 


1, 


2. 


War in 1962 
only, not 
before with 
China 


War with Pakis- 
tan (1965) 


Wars (In- 
dian) in 
1962 India- 
China War 
broke out 


War broke 
out in Sep- 
tember 
1965 


called tt an 
error of 

Judgement 
gracefully. 


More than Anextra- An absolute- 
eight years ordinary _ ly dazzling 


One year 
three 
months 
before 


piece of re- chain of 


search predictions 

Hindu New followed 

Year which no 
statesman of 
the world 
could 
visualise or 
foresee 

Oath Gave hints 

taking of many im- 


ceremony pending dis- 
time of Lal asters 
Bahadur 

Shastri's 

Cabinet 


45 


46 


2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
14. May 1971 3. War with Pakis- December Seven Pianetary —do— 
tan (1971) 3 1971 months transits 
"Celestial warn- before 
ings- 
15. Jan 1966 1, Devaluation of | Mixed (In- Few Hindu New How planets 


Indian curren- 
cy : “Drastic 
economic 
measures* 


dian) Somc- months 
time in the before 
middle of 

1966 In- 

dian rupee 

was 

devalued 


Year 


affect 
economy 


16. April 1969 2 Mr. Jyoti Lasted for Five years Time of Muhurta 
Basu's Cabinet more than before Oath of the (election) ts 
of 1969 : West four years Cabinet so important 
Bengal. Fairly Mr. Sid- 
long term - not dhartha 
less than four Sankar 


years Ray (Con- 
gress) 
formed 
Govt. after 
1973 
17. Jan. 1958 3 Train Accident Ambala Two Saturn- How planets 
Train Acci- months Mars in cause acci- 
dent of 1-1- before Scorpio, dents is il- 
1958 ~ the 3rd lustrated 
from Virgo, 
India's 
Lagna 


47 


48 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
18. April 1973 4. Railway strike _—_A terrible Thirteen A great Mars caus- 
after Mars strike months piece of re- ing a railway 
moves into during Mr. _ before search on _ strike-Eclipse 
eclipse- point L.N.Misra's eclipses 
on 10-4-1974 time took 
place in 
1974 April. 
May, June 
19. March 1966 5. Exit of Mr. T.T.K. had = Few Oath - Importance 
T.T.Krish- to leave at months taking of Muhurta 
namachari the end of _ before ceremony 
from the the year 


Centra! Cabinet 


20. 


Dec. 


1974 


1 


Recent Events 


Growth of 
totalitarianism 
in Indian 
Democracy 


Emergency 
of 1975 
June 


Acutally 
many 
years 
before. 
Here eight 
months 
before he 
predicted 
it 


A great An 

piece of re- astrologer 
search, foresees for- 
Jupiter in ces that 
Pisces and shape history 
Saturn in 

Cancer in 

the past— 

battles of 

Panipat 

and 1857 

Mutiny 


49 


21. 


22. 


2 


Oct. 1977 


July 1979 


2. 


3. 


4 


President San- 
jiva Reddy's ail- 
ment. "Satur- 
nine movement 
not easy to 
identify his ail- 
ment" 


Mr. Jaya 
Prakash 
Narayan {s also 
exposed to ef- 
fect of Eclipse 


5 6 


Dr. RK. Few 
Caroll, months 
then before 
President's 
physician, 

detected a 

shadow on 

Mr. 

Reddy's 

lungs. 

Operation 

was in USA 


J.P. died 
on 6-10- 
1979 


before 


Oath 


Six months Eclipse 


50 
8 


Importance 
of Muthurta 


Importance 
of Eclipse 


23. 


24. 


25. 


26. 


A speech in 
A.M, 2-4-1981 


Jan. 


Jan. 


1982 


1983 


Mrs. Gandhi 
should be care- 
ful about her 
safety 


Communal 
Riots In Bihar 


Partisan 
decisions by 
the Supreme 
Court 


Supreme Court 
will reverse ear- 
lier dicision 


A plane 
(Makalu) In 
which she 
was to fly 
was 
sabotaged 
27-4-1981 


in May 
1981 com- 
munal 
riots took 
place In 
Bihar 


No com- 
ments 


Guess 


Few days 
before 


-do— 


No com- 
ments 


—do-- 


Perhaps 
Mrs. Indira 
Gandhi's 
horoscope 


National 
horoscope 
possibly 


Hindu New 
Year 


Hindu New 
Year 


51 


52 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
27. Jan. 1982 8 *A minority Sheikh Ab- Some 
leader will dullah died months 
pass away* some before 
months 
after 
28. Jan. 1982 9 Punjab Problem Remains Brillant Saturn rep See how 
unsolved prediction resents planets and 
based on west and_ Rasis repre- 
deep re- _— Libra sent direc- 
search, north. So tions 
Two years trouble in 
before Punjab, 
also Kash- 
mir Hindu 
New Year 
29, Jan. 1983 10. Punjab Problem -do- 
J, 
30. Jan. 1982 11. Islamic Fun- No com- o-cont With some 
damentalism in ments ments special re- 
Kashmir search on 


Kashmir 


31. 


32. 


Jan. 


Jan. 


1982 


1982 


12. 


13. 


Restrictions on 
Press 


Re-shuffle of 
the Central 
Cabinet 


Dr. 
Jaganath 
Misra 
passed the 
Bihar 
Press Bill 
which 
created a 
national 
controversy 


Mr. Kedar 
Pandey, 
Mr. 
Sttaram 
Kesri and 
Mr. 
V.C.Shukla 
were 
dropped. A 
sensation 
was created 


Many 
months 
before 


Many 
months 
before 


added New 
Year 


Hindu New Well-known 
Year 3rd = area of Mun 
house dane Astrol- 


ogy 


Hindu New Research 
Year 


53 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 


33. Jan. 1983 14. In- In the —do— Fantastic Re- 
crease Budget of search 
In Post- March 
al Rates 1983 In- 
creased 


34. Jan. 1983 15. Bank Scandals Syndicate 
will be detected Bank, In- 
dian Over- 
seas Dank, 
New Bank 
of India, 
Punjab 
and Sind 
Bank are 
in news 
and under 
CBI inves- 
tigation 


35. 


36. 


Jan. 


Jan. 


1983 


1983 


16. 


17. 


Business Scan- 


dal will be 
detected 


There will be 
devastating 
fires in Delhi, 
Bombay 
around June 
eclipse 


Inquity. 
Beef Tallow 
Scandal of 
Jains has 
tormented 
Hindus. 
Swaraj 
Paul's case 
is still very 
hot 


Gopala 
Towers 
and indane 
Gas fires 
{n Delhi in 
May, June 
shook 
Delhi. On 
June 6, 
fire broke 
out in 26 
places in 
India 


does 


A groat re- 
search on 
Eclipse, 
Zodiacal al- 
location of 
regions in 
India 


Hindu New Fantastic Re- 


search 


This predic- 
tion is far 

greater than 
Lily's about 
London fire 


55 


56 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
37. Jan. 1983. 18. At least one Mr. Zodical al- Special re- No other 
more South In- N.T.Rama location for searches of astrologer 
dian StAte will Rao in Andhra Dr.Raman has done so 
opt for non- Andhra Revat! (Pis- Hindu New many new re- 
Congress rule and Mr. ces Rasi). Year searches 
RK.Hegde Two 
in Kar- months 
nataka before 
have 
formed 
non Con- 
t . gress 
Govts. 
eafter Jan. 
1983 elec- 


tions. 


38. 


39. 


Jan. 1983 


Dec. 1947 


19. 


Performance of Won elec- 

Congress may tions in 

not be that bad Delhi in 
many 
municipal 
elections 
in MP and 
Assam 
State elec- 

“ tions 


Pakistan 
Re-nnion with Watch it 


India a cer- 
tainity 


At least Hindu Newspapers 


three New Year totally failed 
months to to assess this 
five 

months 

before 


Birth horo- Birth horo- This method 
scope of scope yields best 
Pakistan results 
13/14 

Angnst 

1947 mid- 

night 

Karachi 

and 14/15 

for India 


57 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
40. June 1949 2. Democracy will Judge your- ‘lhirty lour —do— Atthcted 
be a farce, self years ago Moon 
totalitatriain 
tendencies 
visible in the 
horoscope 
4]. Jan. 1953 3. Significant Kwaja Niza Nine Hindu New Fantastic Re 
change—loss muddin months Year search 
or resignation was dis- before 
missed in 
July 1953 
42. Jan. 1955 4. Mr. Mohd. All Was Ten Hindu New —do— 
will be thrown thrown out months Year 
out in August before 
1955 
43. May 1956 5. Ayub’s Islamic Collapsed Three Birth horo- Time is the 
Republic will in less years scope of ls- crux of 
collapse than three _ before lamic Muhurtha 
Balarista years Republic 


44. 


45. 


46. 


47. 


May 1956 


August 1964 
May 1971 


June 1969 


July 1969 


Economy will 

improve- Mas- 
sive aid from 

USA 


Indo-Pak Wars 


Upsurge in 
East Pakistan- 
bloodshed 


Significant 
change 


US aid 
flowed into 
Pakistan 
massively 
during 
Ayub's 
regime 


Sec under 
India 


Two years 
before 
Bangladesh 
was formed 


Ayub goes, 
Yahya be- 
comes 
Pakistan's 
dictator 


Two 


months 
before 


Two years 
and some 
months 


A few 
months 
before 


Position of How planets 
Mercury and Rasis 


repre- represent 
senting countries 
USA 


It was an Dr, Raman's 
old predic- consistent 
tion based astrological 
on prevision is 
Pakistan's revealed 
birth horo- 

scope 


Transitting Great Re 
planets search 


59 


48. 


49. 


2 
Jan. 1977 
Jan 1975 


10. 


1. 


4 5 
Solar eclipse of On 5th 
Pakistan's As- July, 1977 
cendant; sig- Bhutto 
nificant change was dis- 
placed and 
Gen. Zla 
became 
Martial 
Law Ad- 
ministrator. 
Bhutto 
was later 
hanged 
Bangla Desh 
Unexpected August 
developments- 1975 
crucial for Mujib was 
BanglaDesh killed 


6 


About ten 
months 
before 


About ten 
months 
before 


60 


7 8 
Hindu New A very great 
Year prediction 
eclipse 


Hindu New Late Mr. 


Year 


Y Keshav 
Menon had 
also 
predicted 


50. 


51. 


52. 


April 1975 om 


Jan, 1982 3. 


World prospects 1. 
1937-1938 


"Violent move- 
ment to unseat 
Mujib’ 


"The President Was over- 
of Bangla Desh thrown on 


will be over- 25-3-1982 
thrown" 

World Problems 
World war ll War broke 
will begin in out as 


Europe follow- _ predicted 
ing Eclipses (1959) 


—do- 


Five 
months 
before 


One year 
before 


Saturn's 
entry in 
Cancer 
and aspect 
of Mars 


Hindn New 
Year 


Eclipse 


search 


Dr. Raman's 
grandfather 
late Prof. B. 
Suryanarain 
Rao had 
predicted 
about the 
Ist World 
War. Dr. 
Raman at 
the age of 25 
predicted the 


61 


53. 


August 1940 


2. 


Russo German 
Pact will be 
dead (German- 
Soviet Non-Ag- 
gression Pact 
concluded on 
23/24 August 
1939) (Molotov- 
Ribhen trap) 


Died after 
1942 when 
Stafford 
Cripps 
made trip 
to Moscow 


At least 


before 


62 


8 


Second 
World War 
when most 
of the 
Western 
astrologers 
had ruled 
out such pos- 
sibilities. 


The time of If Stalin and 
three years signing of Hitler had 


the Pact 
transit of 
planets 


joined. world 
would have 
been 
enslaved. 
But only Dr. 
Raman knew 
that the Pact 
would col- 
lapse. 
Europe was 
nervous 


54. 


35. 


July 1940 


Jan. 


1941 


3. 


4. 


Italy would 
enter war and 
get ruined 


Fascist dictator- 


ships will col- 
lapse in four 
years 


Mussolini's 
Italy had 
become 
Hitlers 
llabUlty. 
Italy was 
ruined 


Collapsed 
in 1945 
(see 56 
and 57 
below) 


Two years Transit of 
and five planets 
months 

before 


Four years Transit of 

before Saturn in 
Taurus 
and 
Jupiter tn 
Cancer 


jt was not a 
certainty at 
one stage 


Astrological 
foresight; no 
one else, 
statesman or 
political 
scientist, 
could have 
been so con- 
fident 


63 


56. 


57. 


2 
Sept. 1944 
Noy. 1943 


5. 


6. 


4 


Hitler will have 
a violent end 


Mussolini wil! 
have a violent 
end 


5 


30-4-1945 
committed 
suicide 


Was shot 
dead on 
29-7-1945 


6 


One year 
(see 4) 
before 


See(4) 
above also 
Two years 
before 


64 


7 8 
Dr. Raman Hitler figures 
had made in the cal- 
a very culation of 
deep study longevity in 
of the horo- Dr. Raman's 
scope of — book on 
. world Jaimini 
figures - 
see his 
Notable 
Horoscopes 
and 
Studies in 
Jaimint 
Astrology 
Deep study 
of individual 
horoscopes, 
transits of 
planets in 


Italy's Hindu 
New Year 


"Global The prob- 


shortage of lem hap be- 


energy” come ter- 
rible. On 
Sept. 19, 
1983, 
Global 
Energy 
Meet in 
New Delhi 


Russia 


Stalin's death Stalin died 
approaching on 5-3- 
Dasa Chidra of 1953 

Mars (ending 

in 1952-53) 


horoscope 1s 
Dr. Raman's 
techniquc 


Hindu New' A great piece 


Year's of research 
horoscope 
More than Stalin's Dr. Raman 
three years birth rectifies 


details 21- Lagna in a 
12-1879 at very extraor- 
3-5 p.m. dinary man- 
Gori (Geor- ner with fan- 
gia) tastically 


65 


66 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
high percent- 
age of suc- 
cess. 

60. Jan. 1953 2. Critical for Rus- Stalin died Five Hindu New Lunar Saka 
sia... Stalin's on 5-3- months Year con- Hindu New 
own position 1953 before verted into Year is the 

LMT of most depend- 
Moscow able scien- 


tific basis for 
mundane 
predictions. 
Dr. Raman 
has used it 
for over four 
decades 


61. 


March 1954 


3. 


Malenkovy's fall 
: troubles 
begin from 
May, June. 
1954. Will be 
overthrown 
and not shot 
dead lke Beria 


Nikolai Bul- 
ganin 
replaced 
him some- 
time in 
1955 


A horo- 
scopic vious 
analysis column. 


See the pre Planets are 
God's agen- 


cies of con- 


thus. The The further trol. Mar- 


Moon’ lord discussion 
of 8th {s in was : in 
Ketu's nak- Rahu Dasa 


shatra and when Rahu 


Ketu is transits 
aspected the nak- 
by Mars shatra 


and Mars held by 
to his turn Mars 

is not sub- Malenkov 
ject to any will be on 
affliction his way 
but only out 
aspects the 

8th. Conse- 

quently 

Malenkov's 

fall by 

being over- 

thrown 

One Year 

before 


xists are not 
spared. 
Planets do 
not dis- 
criminate 
betwen 
capitalists 
and com- 
munists, 
Marxist op- 
position to 
Astrology is 
proof of how 
Marxism has 
become a 
mind-deaden' 
ing opiate 


67 


68 


1 2 4 5 6 7 8 

62. March i962 Khruschev : Khruschev Two years Birth on During his 
What is the fu- was over- and ten 17-4-1894 Indian visit 
ture? At the thrown on months Kalinorka Khruschev 
moment the 6-10-1964 before (Kurk). Dr. had asked 
ruling sub- by Raman where is 
period is that Brezhnev rectified God? Hindu 
of Rahu. Here Lagna and Astrology, 
Saturn is in gave Var- and Dr. 
the constella- gottama aman's 
tion of Mars, a Libra prediction 
maraka, Rahu Lagna in would have 
whose sub- keeping given him 
period lasts titl with adequate 
Oct, 1963... Khrusehev’s 2nswer 
will be the exit liberal, 
of this great balanced 
personage post-Stalin 

policies 


63. 


Jan. 


1979 


5. 


Brezhnev's 
health will be 


affected at timc 


of Solar eclipse 
of February 
1979 


World 
came to 
know 
about it 
niuch later 


How many Hindu New Physical 


years or 
months 
before cau- 
not be 
kuown 


Year con- 
verted into 
L.M.T. of 
Moscow 
and the ef- 
feet of 
eclipse is 
first 
studied. 
Then tran- 
sit of Mars 
to the 
point of 
eclipse af 


scientists 
and 
astronomers 
arc still nurs 
ing the belief 
that eclipses 
have no ef- 
fect on 
human des- 
tiny. Primi- 
live men 
who knew 
this were 
wiser than 


fecting Rus-modem 


sian politl- 
cal power- 
structure 
analysed 


scientists 


69 


70 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
64. Jan. 1982 6. Dramatic chan- Brezhnev One year 18 of Can- Dr. B.V. 
ges in Kremlin. died on 12-_ before cer rises. Raman 
A leading 11-1982 Mars predicted it 
Soviet States- aspects the: one year ago 
man will pass 10th house yet an Indo 
away and the Anglican of 
8th lord the English 
Satumis Press in 
assoicated India wrote 
= with Mars. that no In- 
. Hindu New dian 
Year predicted it 
while a Rus- 
. sian woman 
had. 
65. Jan. 1980 7. A considerable Kosygin Six months With Libra See remarks, 
shake-up In was before as Lagna_ = (ndo- 
the Soviet removed in in the Anglican 
Government Is April 1980 Hindu New should be 
expected abont Year horo- educated 
the middle of scope and properly by 
the year * the Moon 


GC. 


Jan. 1979 


8. 


The Soviet in- 
fluence in Af- 
ghanistan will 
rise dramatical- 
ly and cause 
serious con- 
cern among Its 
neighbours. 


Details not Ten 
known, months 
But Decem- before 
ber last 

week 1979 

Russia 

moved fnto 
Afghants- 

tan 


the }eth = Hindu 
lord in the astrologers 
6th 

withthe 

Sun but 
aspected 

by Saturn 

and 

retrograde 

Mars 

power 

struggle is 
indicated 


Afghanis- Most sensa 


tan is Krit- tlonal 
tika (Aries) foresight 


71 


68. 


2 


Jan. 1980 


World 
prospects 1940 


9. 


1. 


4 5 


Jupiter lord of | im Decem- 


ber 1979 it 
house of neigh- happened 


the 3rd or the 


bours ts as- 
sociated with 
Mars and 
Rahu... planetary 
disposition 1s 
indicative of 

the Soviet 
Union getting 
ebogged down 


in 


Afghanistan's 
war 


U.S.A. 


Re-election of Was 
President elected 
Roosevelt 


72 


7 8 


Only an 

astrologer 
could have 
foreseen Itt 


About one Jupiter 


and Saturn 
transiting 
their radi- 


69. 


70. 


Sept. 1940 


World 
prospects 
1948-49 


2: 


Death of Presi- 
dent Roosevelt 


Election of 
Truman “Stars 
are not Ina 
frowning mood 
in regard to 
Mr. Truman 
.. consequently 


there are chan- 


ces of his re- 
election to the 
Presidential 
chair" 


Died in 12- 
4-1945 


Truman 
was re- 
elected 


cal posi- 
tions 


Four years Transit of 
before major 
planets 


About one Truman's 
year horoscope 
before 


Dr. Raman's 
prediction 
was given 
much earlier 
than per- 
haps by a 
lady clair- 
voyant of 
US.A. 


We have 
quite a num- 
ber of 
astrological 
Journals tn 
this country. 
Except one 
or two, the 
others have 
reduced 
Astrology to 
a farce. Most 
of our 


73 


74 


8 


71. Nov. 1968 4. Mr.Nixon Mr.Nixon Few Mr. Nixon's 
would be was elected months. horoscope 


elected as Presi- before 
dent of U.S.A. 


astrologers * 
and 
prophets 
predicted 
that Truman 
would never 
succeed this 
time—New 
York John 
Jefiries, 
(AM, 1949 
Jan, p.110} 


in. 1960 Dr. 
Raman had 
wrong birth- 
time of Mr. 
Nixon when 
he went 
wrong. Im- 
portance of 
birth time 


72. 


73. 


Dec. 1972 


Dec. 1972 


5. 


6. 


Mr. Nixon 
would be re- 
elected 


But will he 
complete the 


term? Disquiet- 
ing features for 


the second 
term. 


Mr. Nixon 
was re- 
elected 


Mr. Nixon 
resigned 
on 9-8- 
1974 after 
the Water- 
gate affair 


Few 
months 
before 


Two years 
nine 
months 
before 


Mr. Nixon's In 1960 Dr. 
horoscope Raman had 


wrong birth 
time of Mr. 
Nixon when 
he went 
wrong. Im- 
portance of 
birth time. 


Dr. Raman 
has 
hundreds of 
more bril- 
liant predic- 
tions but 
USA remem- 
bers this as 
one of his 
great predic- 
tions. 


75 


74. 


75. 


76, 


2 3 


tn 1972 in ad- 7. 


dressing U.S, 
Astrologers 


Jan. 1949 1. 


March 1950 2. 


4 5 


This prediction US papers 

about repeated reminded 
their 
readers 
about the 
great 
prediction 
about Mr. 
Nixon 


China 
Fall of Chiang Fled in Oc- 


Kai Shelk by tober 1949 
* September 1949 


Chinese revolu- Remains so 
tion will 
remain Chinese 


-do- 


About 
eleven 
months 
before 


Thirty- 
three years 
ago 


76 


Saturn's _—_ Series of 
transit on predictions 
the cusp of followed 
the 10th 

house of 

Chiang Kal 


Chinese Mao had ac- 
Republican cused Rus- 
horoscope sia of even 
3-15 p.m. ‘distortions’ 
1-10-1949 


77. 


78. 


79, 


March 1950 


March i950 


Jan. 


1976 


1 


3. 


4, 


5. 


Sino Russian 
relations will 
be strained in 
Mars Dasa 
(1958-1965) 


Will be a world 
power in Rahu 
Mahadasa 
(1965-1983) 


Chou-en-Lal 
will fade away 


See Table 
il. In 1960, 
ten years 
after the 
prediction 
and within 
the 
predicted 
time it hap- 
pened 
China is a 
nuclear 
power 


Died on 
8th 
January 
1976 


Ten years 
before 


Nearly 
twenty 
years 

before 


Three 
months 
before 


Chinese No states- 

Republican man of the 

horoscope world could 
foresee or 
say this 


Planetary Surprisingly 
yogas and in spite of 
position in bad Sino 


the Soviel rela- 
Republican tions 
horoscope 


Hindu New Who ex- 
Year's pected this? 
horoscope 


77 


78 


1 2 4 5 6 7 8 
80. Jan. 1976 6. Mao-Tse-Tung _ Died on Eleven Hindu New Note how 
will fade away September «months Year scientific his 
9th 1976 Hindu New 
Year basis is 
81 Jan. 1981 7. Earthquake fol- On 26-1- Three Hindu New Let physical 
lowing 1981 months Year scientists, 
penumbral South before seis- 
eclipse of the China sus- mologists 
Moon on 20th tained a note this 
January 1981 =. major 
earth 
quake, c 
Many were 
killed. 
Egypt 
82. Feb. 1952 1, Drastic politi- On 23rd Nine King's Which Is bet- 
cal changes... July 1952 months heroscope ter- political 
the king King before guess or 
must... careful Farouk Astrological 
alsout personal was foresight? 


safety deposed 


83. 


84. 


Nov. 1952 


Jan. 1981 


2. 


3. 


Dictatorship 
not democracy 


Coup against 
Sadat 


Nasser 
used 
Naguib as 
a figure 
head Ina 
controlled 
democracy 
and 
replaced 
him as 
Egypt's 
dicatator 
by 1954 
Sadat was 
shot dead 
on 6-10- 
1981 


One year Planetary Planets 
before position of decide the 
revolution form of 
Government, 


Eleven Hindu New Again sec 

months Year how Hindu 

before New Year 
basis be- 
comes ap- 
plicable 


79 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Yugoslavia 
85. Jan, 1977 1. Mars~Jupiter Prime Mini- Seven Hindu New Again see 
conjunction ster months Year how Hindu 
may see flags Dzemal before New Year 
half mast in Bifidie basis be- 
Yugoslavia died In a comes ap- 
plane crash plicable 
Pope 
86. Jan. 1982 1. Year critical for On Angnust Ten Hindu New Could 
Pope 8. 1982 months Year anyone 
Pope sur- before know 
vived assas- beforehand 
sination at- 
tempt but 
was 
Seriously 


injured 


87. 


88. 


89. 


90. 


Jan. 1067 


Jan. 1973 


Jan. 1982 


Jan. 1983 


Israel 


War between Is- 


rael and Egypt 


West Asia on 


the brink of war 


Armed confron- 


tation with 
Arabs 


Begin Govt, 
may not last 
whole year 


June 1967 
war broke 
out 


Oct. 6, 
1973—War 
broke out 
between Is- 
rael and 


Egypt 


June 1982 
war broke 
out 


Begin quit 
In Sept. 
1983 


Ten 
months 
before 


Ten 
months 
before 


Eight 
months 
before 


Ten 
months 
before 


Hindu New 
Year 


Hindu New 
Year 


—do— 


—do— 


Hindu New 
Year for 
Jews also as 
basis 


Hindu New 
Year for 
Jews also as 
basis 


All wars 
predicted 
successfully 


Letters of ap- 
preciation 
received for 
these predic- 
tions are 
many 


$1 


82 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
Tran 
91. Jan. 1953 t. Maussadiques Fell tn One year Hindu New Hindu New 
fall Nov. 1953 __ before Year Year applied 
to Iran 
92. Nov. 1978 2. Fall of the Jan. 1979 Four Shah's Accurate 
Shah; abdica- Shah fled months horoscope horoscope 
tion or misfor- helped 
tune giving of ac- 
curate 
prediction 
93. Jan. 1978 3. Total lunar Teheran Eleven Hindu New Yet sclen- 
eclipse on 16-9- was rocked months Year lists and 
1978 causes on 16-9- before Eclipse Kovoors will 
Earthquake 1978 not 
Thousands appreciate 


killed 


94. 


95. 


Dec. 1980 
Jan. 1975 
Nov. 1951 


4. 


1. 


1. 


Around Jupiter- On 29-7- 
Saturn conjunc- 1981 Lran 
tien of 20-7- was rocked 
1981 tran may by 


be rocked by earthquake 

Earthquake and 
thousands 
killed 


King Faisal 


One Arab dte- —- King Faisal 

tator will be vie- was shot 

tim of violence dead by 
his own 
nephew in 
April 1975 


England 


Victory for Con- 
servatives 


Conserva- 
tives won 


Nine Conjunc- Yet scien- 

months tion of tists say 

before major planets do 
planets not affect us 


Six months Hindu New —do— 


before Year 

Few Horoscope importance 

months of the Con-* of a party 

before servative horoscope 
Party 


83 


97. 


98. 


99. 


i) 


Jan. 1952 
June 1955 
Jan. 1966 


4 5 
Death of King The King 
George V1 died on 6- 
5-1952 
Victory of An- in 1975 An- 
thony Eden thony . 
Eden be- 
came 
British P.M. 
Ghana 
Not favourable Was over- 
for con- thrown on 
tinuance of 22nd Feb. 
Nkrumah 1966 on 
his way to 
Hanoi 
while at 
Peking Air- 


port 


6 


Seven 
months 
before 


Few 
months 
before 


Few 
months 
before 


84 


7 8 
¢ Hindu New Perhaps also 
Year the horo- 
scope of the 
King 


Horoscope Fortunes of 
of England ea party too 
according are 

to Zodiacal predictable 
sign and 

Eden's 

horoscope 


Hindu New A fantastic 
Year prediction 


South Africa 


100. May 1960 1. South Africa Quit on 31- One year Horoscope A piece of re- 
will quit com- 5-1961 and two of Sonth search 
mon-wealth months Africa 

before 


Fall of Idi Amin 


101. Jan, 1977 1. Fall of Amin Fellin May Seven Hindn New A fantastic 
1977 months Year prediction 
before 
Thailand 
102. Jan. 1981 i. Coup in May 1981 Six months Hindu New Astrology 
Thailand there was before Year has no 

a coup limitations: 

astrologer 

may have 


85 


86 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
France 
103. April 1982 1. Fail of French 22-5-1981 Seven Horoscope Planets af- 
Govt. French Par- months of France fect Parlia- 
liament before ment also 
was dis- 
solved 
Indonesia 
104. Jan. 1966 1. Exit of Sukarno Exit in Few Hindu New Could also 
1966 months Year be 
before Indonesian 


horoscope of 
mdcpendenec 


105. 


106. 


March 1947 


March 1947 


L. 


2. 


Vietnam 


The above 
chart has a fot 
of explosive ele- 
ments. Enemy 
France 


..-combined in- 
fluences of 
Saturn, Mars, 
Rahu in the 
10th-therefore, 
full of complica- 
tions 


The French 
continued 
their battle 
for eight 
long years 
till they 
fost in 
Dien Bien 
Phu 


USA got in- 
volved first 
indirectly 
and later 
directly 
when Red 
China 
came into 
power 


Seven 
years It 
continued 


Seven 
years it 
continued 


Birth time 
not known 
The Moon 
offers the 
basis for 
prognos- 
tication 


Birth time 


not known. 


The Moon 
offers the 
basis for 
prognos- 
tication 


One of Dr. 
Raman's ex- 
traordinary 
method of 
depending 
npon the 
Moon only 
when birth 
time is not 
known 


One of Dr. 
Raman's ex- 
traordinary 
methods of 
depending 
upon the 
Moon only 
when birth 
time Is not 
known 


87 


88 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 

107. Sept. 1954 3. Geneva Agree- Theblood- Continned Geneva Importance 
ment ...rela- stained his- for years Agreement'sof the time 
tions worsened _ tory is well- horoscope of Agreement 
.. death, dis- known 21-7-1954 
aster, In con- 
nection, with 
the army and 
the navy ... 
dangers of 
war... Mars 
dominates 

108. June 1968 3. 17th Parallel After 1975 Eight years Republic of .The only per- 
No bright re-unifica- _ before Vietnam son who , 
shades. Rahu tion of Viet- 26-10- timed the 
Dasa lasts til nam took 1955 was return of 
1975. Only place In the basis _ peace not 
after Saturn 1976 when before 1975 
enters Gemini— Rahn Dasa 
prospects of was over 


peace 


109. 


110. 


Jan. 1979 


April 1979 


4. 


5. 


Chinese inten- 
sions towards 
its neighbours 
could be decep- 
tively 
dangerous in 
view of conjunc- 
tion of Saturn 
and Rahu in 
the 3rd 
house... | Viet- 
nam will con- 
tinue to be a 
sore spot 
Sino-Viet- 
namese War 
1979 Obviously 
Vietnamese are 
not badly 
placed. Be- 
cause Jupiter 
aspects Mars 
the Dasa lord, 
the conflict 
may not lost 
long 


China 
launched a 
large-scale 
offensive 
against 
Vietnam 

on 17-2- 
1979 


Vietnamese 
fought 
valiantly. 
The war 
was over 
soon (No 
definite 
date could 
be ascer- 
tained) 


Four years Hindu New Military ex- 


before 


Some 
weeks 
before 


Year, 
Saturn- 


Rahu con- 


junction. 


Rahu Dasa 
in Chinese 


horoscope 


Horoscope 
of China 

and Viet- 
nam and 

Mahadasa 
in both 


perts may 
profit from 
such an ex- 
ample 


Comparative 
study of com- 
batants from 
the war horo- 
scope is a 
brilliant re- 
search of Dr. 
Raman 


89 


90 


TABLE II 
Astrologer Versus Statesman 
The difference between Astrology and all other subjects of the world—politlcal. social, 


economic together with the intelligence report of the Intelligence Agencies of the different 
countries is vast. In this part gets illustrated the difference between astrological foresight 


and historical hindsight. 


Astrological Foresight 
Dr. B.V. Raman 
Coa 

According to Avakahada Chakra Goa falls 
under Satabhisha or Kumbha Rasl...But after 
Rahu enters Scorpio and Saturn quits Libra 
their movements will have reference to the 
tenth house from Kumbha...Thercfore it oc- 
curs to us the end of Portuguese rule is in 
sight within the next two years. Sani Bhuktt tn 
Rahu Dasa is In operation now. Saturn {fs tn 
a marakaplace while the major lord Rahu oc- 
cupying the 9th or house of fortune, and 
aspected by the maraka Saturn clearly {ndi- 
cates "the death of the native" (the end or Por- 
tuguese rule) 


Historical Hindsight 
Pt. Nehru 
Coa : Pt. Nehru's Speeches 

‘What are the basic elements of our policy 
in regard to Goa? First, there must be peaceful 
methods. This is essential unless we give up 
the whole roots of all our policies and our be- 
haviour. There 1s nothing 1 can arguc. with 
any person who thinks that the methods 
employed in regard to Goa must be other than 
peaceful, because we rule out our non-peaceful 
methods completely." 


In view of the incendiary nature of Saturn— 
Rahu conjunction, the Portuguese authorities 
will not gracefully .withdraw. The problem of 
epeaceful negotiation" cannot work in the case 
of Goa, in view of the strong disposition of 
malefics in the 7th. 8th and 9th houses.,,.There- 
fore, a grave situation is likely to develop by 
about October 1956 (Saturn—Rahu  conjunc- 
tion)...before Rahu leaves Scorpio, the ’Goa 
problem will have been satisfactorily (but not 
entirely non-violent) solved and Portuguese 
authority terminated. (A.M., August, 1955) 


(Pt. Nehru's speech in Lok Sabha, Septem- 
ber 17, 1955) 
(Dr. Raman’'s editorial written earlier clearly 
stated what Pt. Nehru could not foresee. 
Later when military action was taken what Pt. 
Nehru said ts : 
Background of Liberation of Goa 
“The whole operation there took about 26 
hours. It would have taken half that time but 
for the fact that roads were mined and vchicles 
could not move." 
Vol. IV, p. 36 of Jawahar La! Nehru's 
Speeches) 


Hindu Jyotisha and Statesmen's Wisdom 


01. Hindu Shastras refer to Astrology as a Science of Wisdom for the management of day-to-day 
affairs which the King must make use of, it being an infallible peep into the future. 


02. Instead of respecting the astrological wisdom of Rishls, it has been looked down upon. True 
what is inevitable, could not have been prevented, but could have been foreseen and mini- 


mised. 


91 


92 


03. All foreign offices of the countries of the world have their own China specialists. In the years 
referred to below, we had our China specialist in late K.M. Pannlkar, V.K.N. Menon, K.P.S. 


Menon and a vast team of officers. 


04. Given below 1s a contrasting study between what Dr. Raman said in March 1950 and December 
1954, the same year in which Pandit Nehru concluded an agreement with China which was 
signed in Peking. Two points worth noting below are what Dr. Raman says about relations 
between China and Russia on the one hand and China and India on the other. 


Dr. Raman. March 1950 

01."The period of Mars in the Chinese 
Republic Horoscope will be of far-reaching con- 
sequences. While the Soviets will be despaired 
of their Chinese friends, the Chinese themsel- 
ves will follow in Asia a policy more or less on 
the pattern of the policy followed by the 
Soviets in Europe after theIl World War. 


Pt. Nehru and others 

OL."As we know how. the CCP delegates 
did not attend as meek followers of Moscow-dic- 
tated policies. Until 1960 China was willing for 
the sake of block unity to issue harmonious 
sounding communiques, but from that year on- 
wards they displayed an Increased willingness 
to challenge Moscow openly. Andeat the four 
Congresses in late 1962, and one in early 1963 
the Sino-Soviet dispute was on the table for all 
to see. It is no accident that Peking had at- 
tended only block Congresses in Rumania and 
Albania since that time.” (Management of 
Foreign Affairs in China in the book China: 
Management of a Revolutionary Society (p 335) 
George Allen and Unwin Ltd.) 


December 1954. 

02 Chinese expansionism will be aimed at 
the destruction of the capitalist system and the 
establishment of communism. It occurs to us 
therefore that the adage ‘trust begets trust’, 
referred to by our Prime Minister in his recent 
Calcutta speech, will not hold good in regard to 
our Chinese friends in view of the dominant 
position of Mars. We beg to differ from the 
Prime Minister's view that "nobody can foresee 
what will happen in the future. The future can 
be foreseen with appreciable accuracy and the 
future indication in the horoscope of China 
does not warrant the optimism that China will 
scrupulously adhere to the terms of recent 
Joint-statement issued by the Prime Ministers of 
India and China... China will continue to follow 
a policy of expansion until the end of Mars 
Dasa. India should beware of this. Otherwise 
the true interests of India will be in jeopardy... 
A firm grasp of the basic issues involved is es- 
sential on the part of our leaders, {t policies 
adequate to meet the communist menace are to 
be eventually evolved. 

(A.M., December I954) 


02 * A few days ago, an agreement between 
India and China was signed in Peking,, The 
agreement is based on the principles of mutual 
respect for each other's territorial integrity and 
sovereignty, mutual non-aggression, mutual 
non-interference in each other's internal affairs, 
equality and mutual benefits, and peaceful co- 
existence ...1f these principles were recognised 
in the mutual relations of all countries, then 
indeed there would hardly be any conflict and 
certainly no war. This agreement not only set- 
tles some outstanding points between the great 
countries of India and China and establishes 
their relationship firmly on a peaceful basis, 
but 1 think it will help in the maintenance of 
peace in Asia,' 

(p.253 Broadcast from Colombo, May 2, 1954) 
Jawahar Lal Nehru's Speeches, Volume three, 
The Publications Division. 


93 


94 


Ashtagraha of 1962-An Instance of Astrological Peep into Future 


Editorial of November 1960, THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 


Even today there are lots of critics of Astrology who cite the instances of the panic 
created about the possible results of the Ashtagraha Combination of February 1962, and 
refer to it as a glaring instance of failure of Astrology. \t is therefore, necessary to know 
what exacily Dr. B.V.Raman said about the Ashtagraha combination in the month of 
November 1960, editorially, t.e., 16 months before the event. 


Dr. Raman's Prediction 
Hindu — Attitude 

Ol It is not necessary to suggest that our 
interpretation of the combination fs in the light 
of Hindu Astrology supplemented of course by 
our humble experience. Hindu methods of ap- 
proach differ to a certain extent from those 
employed by European and American 
astrologers. One should not go by mere prece- 
dents. 


Comments : 


01 Dr. Raman's own researches have led 
him to discard the Western Astrological method 
of pronouncing Judgement merely on the basis 
of precedents. There are so many other factors 
taken into consideration as is obvious. 


02 Varahamlhlra recognises five types of 
combinations, viz., Sammoha (tarnishing). 
Samaja (meeting), Kosa (Fellowship), San- 
nipatha (encounter) and then Samagama 
(general conjunction) when four or five planets 
meet together in a sign Samavarta. If Rahu or 
Ketu should join then it is Sammoha. The com- 
bination in question takes the character of 
Kosa also because Jupiter and Saturn meet. 
Sammoha and Kosa are considered to be 
dangerous to people. 


02. The factors to be taken into considera- 
tion are the five types of combinations referred 
to by Varahamlhlra. Western astrologers should 
learn from these finer naunces of different 
results. It is particularly necessary because it is 
western astrologers who through their stupen- 
dous follies have brought down the level of 
Astrology, as a predictive science. The Jupiter 
Effect. a book sold {n enormous numbers all 
over the world, had predicted almost the end of 
the world in July, 1982. and Dr. Raman had 
assured his readers that no such impending 
catastrophe would take place. Therefore, going 
back to Hindu Shastras and acknowledging It, 
would help western astrologers more than their 
plagiarising Nke Alan Leo, who lifted bodily the 
principles of Jyotisha of India without acknow- 
ledging, and, also lifted the tatva-theory- »Agnl, 
Prithvi, Vayu, Jal, Akash, in his esoteric Astrol- 
ogy. The recent glaring instance of astrological 
piracy Is that the British astrologers who have 
adopted the Shadvargas of India, and without 
acknowledging it, they eall tt “harmonics”. 


95 


03.In Mr. Nehru's chart. the planets conjoin 
in a maraka place. These are not happy dis- 
positions. Lessons of history should not be ig- 
nored. We must beware of China. 


04.Declaration of some sort of a national 
emergency cannot be ruled out... The threat 
from China will be real and no effort should be 
spared to meet thls threat. 


96 


303 Ashtagraha combination in Capricorn 
Rasi was a clear indicator of the coming events. 
Anyone,who knows elementary Astrology, could 
have seen that Pandit Nehru who made fun of 
Ashtagraha himself was to be affected by it and 
Dr.Raman very clearly points out that the 
planets are conjoining in the Maraka place in 
Nehru's chart. 


04.More remarkable still, {t was in 1962 
October when the SIno- Indian war broke out 
that the first external emergency was declared 
in the country. Dr.Raman had already predicted 
about this emergency. He had predicted again 
in 1974 December, the internal emergency of 
1975. 


05.There is also another important thing to 
consider. In 1962, there will be two solar eclip- 
ses one on the Sth February and the other on 
3ist July. Moreover the lunar fortnight between 
19th June and lst July has got only 13 days 
which is said to be a rare phenomenon. It is 
sald that in the year in which the lunar 
fortnight is only 13 days war is likely. In the 
1962 combination Mars is dominant. He ‘4s ex- 
alted and in close conjunction with Saturn. 
There Is also a powerful Kalasara Yoga, i.e., all 
planets being hemmed In between Nodes. 
Hindu astrological works use for such a dis- 
position, such terms as"certaln death of Kings", 
great political revolutions and immense suffer- 
ing for the people in the northern hemisphere. 


06.Capricorn being a movable sign the con- 
flict, If it breaks out, is not likely to be a long 
drawn affair. 


07.In view of the favorable directions 
operating in the horoscopes of both America 
and Russia, we do not think either of them will 
start the war. 


05.A tremendously valid principle of Hindu 
Shastras is that if eclipses fall within a ludar 
fortnight of 13 days, a war breaks out. 
Dr.Raman's extra-ordinary research of eclipses 
will restore the faith of the world back in 
super-scientific tradition of Hindu Astrology. 


06.The war between China and India was of 
short duration only as was clearly predicted. 


07.Pandit Nehru had delivered a very pes- 
simistic speech when Khruschev was sending a 
Russian ship loaded with nuclear missile and 
President Kennedy gave to Russia 24 hours ul- 
tlmatum. It appeared that the Third World War 


97 


98 


would break out but it was Dr.Raman who had 
already stated tn 1960 November that there 
would be no war between USA and Russia. So 
tn spite of the Bay of Pigs disaster no such war 
broke out. But on the other hand, war between 
India and China as repeatedly predicted by 
Dr.Raman did break out, that was the begin- 
ning of the end of Pandit Nehru who next year 
had a stroke of paralysis. A smart photographer 
of US Newsweek took a photo of Pandit Nehru 
bending sideways, and dangling his arms in a 
helpless posture. A Bombay weekly reprinted 
that and created a sensation in India; one year 
after 1963, Pandit JawaharLal Nehru thought 
that he had made partial recovery and his era 
was not over. In a press conference In Bombay 
sometime in February and later in a press con- 
ference in Delhi on 22nd May 1964, he clearly 
stated. “I am not gotng to dite so early", But five 
days after 22nd May, he died. 


Foreseeing Future History (War) 


O01 When in introducing Dr.Raman I remarked that an astrologer foresaw forces that shape history 
which the historian chronicles after the events have happened some academicians thought that 


it was to big a claim. Please read the following. 


02. In India very few men, particularly in the North, know both English and Astrology. 


03. Most of them do not know how Dr.Raman has been making predictions in advance, mam years 
in advance, when others strutting on the world’s stage, least expected the events, that hap- 


pened to happen. 
Dr.B.V.Raman. 
THE ASTROLOGICAL MACAZINE 

July 1954 
01 Wars-especially involving great nations 
can break out only under certain definite 
planetary patterns when Saturn, Rahu, Mars 
are either in kendras or trlkonas and signs and 
constellations {nvolved are of particularly sensi- 
tive nature such as Mrigasira, Aswint, Satab- 

hisha, etc. 


Comments 


OlJtis planets only that decide when a war 
would take place. Men are instruments of 
planetary decisions and through them, Hitlers 
and Mussolinis, wars break out. But for a war 
to break out planets, malefic in nature moving 
in malefic places, must occupy certain strategic 
positions from each other. These are the three 
conditions to be fulfilled. 


99 


02.Planetary movements during 1957 do 
not warrant the outbreak of hostilities between 
USA and Russia. 


O3.1f we Just study’ the movements of 
planets {n 1959, we find that by the end of 
August Saturn, Mars and Rahu will have oc- 
cupied kendra positions .. These Influences 
favour increased tension between world powers. 


04.But the real crisis can come only in 
1962 when Saturn, Mars, Ketu and Jupiter will 
be in Capricorn and Rahu in Cancer the dis- 
position having reference to the 8th from 
Gemini ruling USA and the 12th from Aquarius 
ruling Russia, 


100 


02.Panic is created periodically by war- 
monger, western astrologers, western 
astronomers, now futurologists (who get wide 
publicity and get good commercial profits from 
books like Jupiter Effect) by giving alarming 
predictions about war. Dr.Raman deprecates 
such fears for 1957. 


03.Out of the three conditions mentioned 
one condition will be fulfilled In 1959. So there 
will be tension between and among world 
powers, (Tensions had increased then between 
(ndfa and China : between China and Russia 
and between USA and Russia.) 


04.All the three conditions wil! be fulfilled 
in 1962. Russia will be In difficult sttuatlon 
caught in two minds whether to wage a war or 
not. 
Please note 


Dr.Raman predicted very clearly in a series 
of editorials. 

(a) US-Russia will not be Involved in a war 
(Bay of Pigs a war nearly broke out). 


(b) India-China war would break out. War 
broke out in 1962. 


(c) It was in 1954 that he forewarned about 
war in 1962. That {s how an astrologer foresees 
future history. 


Predicting the Death of a Political Party 
(THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE,October 1963) 
Supra-Technical_ Discussion in Hindu Jyotisha 


(From 


For Astrologers 
01."According to Jalmini, the Congress has 
a full term of life. The disposition of lords of 
Lagna and the 8th gives the length of life as 
above 83 years". 


(5) 


Dr.Raman’s editorial) 


For Non-Astrologers 

Ol.Length of ife of 83 years added to the 
birth year of the Congress 1885 + 83 - (1968) 
brings to us the year of death of the old Con- 
gress party in 1969 when this great organisa- 
tion split. 

(Please remember that it was written when 
Pt.Nehru was alive and six years before the 
death of 1.N.C.) 


101 


02."it is also suggested by aucient writers 
that a Bhava suffers destruction when Saturn 
transits the Rasi and Navamsa held by the lord 
of the 8th or the 12th from the concerned 
Bhava. Saturu's trausit of trinal places from 
these two houses can also. destroy’ the 
Bhava...Saturn’'s transit of Scorpio, Pisces or 
Cancer should cause destruction to the 8th 
house. 


03.The sum-total of the fougitudes of 
Saturu, Jupiter, the Suu aud the Moon (here it 
is Capricoru 28°) 1s a point of death (Mrityub- 
haga) 
In the case of a full term life, Saturn's trausit 
of this point in the 3rd cycle cau prove fatal. 


04.The longitude of Mandi fess that of 
Saturu indicates auother death-dealiug poiut. 
Saturn's transit of which can prove fatal. Iu the 
Cougress horoscope this point happens to be 
(44° 22°- 73° 50) Pisces 18 


102 


O2.Here the priuciple of timiug {s giveu. The 
timing according to Lahlrl's ephemeris would be 
8-4-1966 to 2-11-1966 
19-12-1966 to 16-6-1968 
28-9-1968 to 6—1969 


For Pisces 


O3.Pt.Nehru came out with his Kamra} Plau 
in August, 1963, when this poiut of death got 
activated. Many old Congress stalwarts had to 
resigu from his cabinet. After Pt.Nehru's death 
some of the old stalwarts claimed that they 
were the original Congressmen of the origiual 
party, aud in later years, they formed an al- 
liauce with Swatautra Party formed by the 
oldest surviving Cougressmau, Raja- 
Gopalacharl. 


04.The timing arrived at is again as In 
paragraph 2 for Pisces. But the fine timing will 
be Pisces 18. 


95.Multiply by 9 the longitudes of Mandi 
and Saturn. Add the products. The transit of 
this point (here it is Pisces 16" ) by Saturn 
woud give extremely evil results. 


06.The sign representing the Navamsa oc- 
cupied by the lord of the Ascendant {s Taurus. 
This 18 second from Aries. 


In the Congress Chart such a sign again 
happens to be Pisces. 


When Saturn transits the sign as far 
removed from the sign uccupied hy the lord of 
the 8th death js likely. 


Q7.1t is clear therefore that Satsrn's transit 
of Aquarius and Pisces should be extremely sig- 
nificant and crucial In future history of the 
Congress Party. 


05.Again Pisces. First the longevity was 
fixed as 83 years ; Saturn's transit of three sen- 
sitive areas located now out of the three Pisces 
as the sensitive area for the death of the Con- 
gress is established. Then it is seen that Saturn 
will be in this area as death's agent at the age 
of 83 years of the Congress Party. 


06.Again Pisces. 


07.Symptoms of death will appear 


103 


Saturn enters Pisces in March 1966 and 
stays there until June 1968. 

08.Mereury’s Dasa ends in 1970. It will be 
during the remaining seven years that the Con- 
gress organisation would have to completely 
disintegrate. 


104 


O8.Now the scheme of three-fold timing of 
death is complete. 
(a) Longevity of 83 years - 1968. 
(b) Saturn's transit - 1968. 
(c) Aeeording to the Moon at birth before 1970. 


The great organisation died before 1970, 
and the quarrelsome children partitioned pater- 
nal property whieh between 1970 and 1980 was 
fragmented three times more. 


105 


CHAPTER FOUR 


AIR CRASHES RELATED TO 
ASTRONOMIC EVENTS 


‘ Vv. Zakharko » 

No one knows the exact number of sea acci- 
dents and plane crashes in the area of the Atlan- 
tic, lying between the Bermuda Islands, Florida 
and Puerto Rico, but it is known that there have 
been very many accidents there. 

But that is not the only place marked by ac- 
cidents of inexplicable origin. In the area between 
Japan, Guam and the Philippines so many ships 
and planes have been reported missing that the 
Japanese Government has officially declared it a 
dangerous zone, 


An opinion 18 in currency that there exists no 
mystery of "triangles" and that accidents in them 
result from the inexperience and errors of 
navigators and pilots, rather than -the action of 
certain natural forces. But this point of view has , 
not been substantially proved. 

There now comes an interesting hypothesis 
on the "triangle" problem, recently put forward by 
A. Yelkin who holds a chair at the Moscow Civil 
Engineering Institute. 

"1 do not want." he says, "to advocate any of 
the views on the '‘triangles'; is there a scientific 
problem here or not? What I did was simply to 


106 


assume that the problem existed and try to find 
out whether there was any regularity in those ac- 
cidents. 


"After collecting statistics on planes, I saw 
that the moments at which they had disap- 
peared—as distinct from ships, these are estab- 
lished with a precision of one—had something 
definitely regular about them, related to 
astronomic phenomena, or, more precisely, to the 
position in regard to each other of the Earth, the 
Moon and the Sun. 

"It is known that the Sun and the Moon do 
not always exert the same influence on the Earth. 


"Since the Earth is compressed at the. poles, 
the Sun and the Moon more strongly pull‘ the 
part of it at the equator that is nearer to them. 
There arise the so-called forces of precession 
straining to turn the axis of rotation of the Earth. 


A Case for Astrology 


ASTROLOGY has fascinated mankind for centuries and 
a belief in it 16 spread over many nations. In this country 
we have always paid It Its due respect and do not allow the 
avowed disbelief of a few to interfere with our faith in tt. 
Astrology does forecast definite trends in an Individual's life 
and that tt ts not always able to foretell all events in detail 
certainly does not mean that {tt is incapable of fulfilling tts 
objectives. There are those who argue that considering how 
a person's life runs according to preordained trends, there 
{s no point 1n consulting an astrologer at all and that it may 
often be better not to know what the future has tn store for 
us. But it 1s important to realise that Astrology has other 


107 


“These forces can become most important in 
December and June, with a zero influence in 
March and September. Revolving around the 
Earth along an elliptical orbit, the Moon now 
comes nearer to us, now moves away. When it is 
the nearest to the Earth (in perigee), its tide- 
forming power {Ss 40 per cent greater than In 
apogee. 

"Knowing from the statistics when the planes 
had disappeared, I established what coordinates 
the Sun and the Moon had held in those days. 
Without going into the subtleties of this question 
now, I would like to say the most important 
thing: it turned out that there was a definite 
regularity in the moments at which the air acci- 
dents had taken place—they coincided with new 
moons and full moons and the Moon's position 
near perigee, as well as with the moments of the 
greatest magnitudes of precession forces. 


aspects which may be studied with profit. In his inaugural 
address to the All- Kerala Astrological Association, Prof, 
B.V.Raman has stressed this factor. He sald that Astrology 
could also be studied “with advantage to help medicine, 
agriculture, meteorology and psychology". He has argued, 
too, that as Astrology has shown that foreknowledge of 
events is possible, science must find a place for it in {ts 
purview of the Universe. There arc many enthusiastic 
scholars both here and in the high-advanced Western 
countries who carry on constant research in Astrology. 1n 
this country, with tts ancient traditions, every facility 
should be afforded to the scholarly astrologers to improve 
their knowledge through study of and research into ancient 
texts and pass on the resultant benefits to the people. We 


108 


The discovered regularity suggests that at 
such moments in the Bermuda and other tri- 
angles lunar-solar tides may cause a movement 
of ionized magma beneath the ocean floor which 
gives rise to magnetic anomalies. These may af- 
fect the functioning of common and gyroscopic 
compasses, clocks and electric and _ electronic 
devices, which happened on the planes and 
ships. This could be one of the causes of the ac- 
cidents." 


A hypothesis is not yet a theory, but there is 
no scientific theory which has not been preceded 
by hypotheses. If it turns out that A. Yelkin's 
hypothesis does identify not an accidental (which 
the author himself thinks is possible) regularity 
in the moments of accidents but a real law of na- 
ture, this can have not a "purely" scientific but 
an enormous practical significance. 


may even venture to say that centers of knowledge like our 
Universities should afford facilities to its study. These are’ 
days, for Instance, in which we hear of the good effect of 
sound waves in promoting the growth of vegetable life. it 
has been pointed out that certain mantras have a beneficial 
effect in the case of afflicted persons, and these mantras are 
resorted to on the advice of competent astrologers. The 
analogy with the effect of sound waves on the growth of 
plants should immediately strike the dispassionate observer 
who does not look down upon Astrology merely because ft Is 
fashionable to do so today. Unfortunately, most people 
resort to astrologers (and there are many quacks among 
them, as there are in any other profession) to ask for 
detailed information about most trivial affairs. There Is also 


109 


For almost all the "triangles" are areas of 
very intense sea and air traffic. And how impor- 
tant it would be to know when they can be 
entered without any risk and when the risk is 
great. 


According to this hypothesis, the nearest 
time of a “line-up” of the Earth, the Moon and 
the Sun which causes dangerous situations in 
the "triangles" will come on January 18. 1977. 

It is possible, believes A. Yelkin, that linked 
with the nature of the formation of the fields of 
force in the "triangles" also is the mechanism of 
the long-term development of situations leading 
to earth- and sea-quakes in certain areas of deep- 
water depressions. 

Such a mechanism may cause destructive 
earth tremors approximately on December 20-25 
and January 5-8 and 18-22 next year in the fol- 
lowing areas: Turkey (in the Taurus Mountains 
zone), New Zealand and Japan (with the ap- 


the human tendency among some astrologers to try to play 
down unpleasant expectations and to tell those who come to 
them with their horoscopes only what they would like to 
hear. A reputation as a good astrologer is built upon long 
study and diligent practice. ln this country there ts no use 
pretending that Astrology {s not popular. By and large, we 
believe tn it; and the suggestions of men like Dr.B.V.Raman 
deserve to be studied with due consideration. That there is 
much tn our traditional corpus of knowledge, the result of 
the experience of generations, is becoming more widely 


110 


pearance of a tsunami), South America (from 20 
to 35 degrees of the southern latitude) and 
Cakfornia, USA. 

I have only to add that back in the summer 
A. Yelkin in conversation with me _ said he 
thought that a violent earthquake in Turkey 
could be expected at the end of November. As is 
known, the earthquake occurred. "It may be that 
this coincidence is also accidental,” says the 
scientist. 


Courtesy : Deccan Herald 
(Supplement) 


recognised. In this context much can be done by our study 
of Astrology by the setting up of separate “chairs” devoted to 
the development of this hoary science. 


- Courtesy: THE HINDU 
18-9-1958 


The Predictions of Tycho Brahe 


ETTER known even than Cardan, the Tycho 

Brahe. some of whose predictions were 
remarkable. In 1577 he declared that "in the 
North, in Finland, there should be born a prince 
who would lay waste Germany and Vanish in 
1632", and he went on to give the grisly details. 
His predictions came true to the letter for Gus- 
tavus Adolphus of Sweden was born in Finland. 
in 1630he landed in Pomerania and made a treaty 
with the French statesman Cardinal Richelieu, 
granting him subsidies. He invaded the German 
states and won brilliant victories, among them the 
capture and sack of Magdeburg where 30.000 
civilians perished. But. as he foretold, he led the 
Swedes to victory in the Battle of Lutzen, in which 
he was killed. 


In an article on Tycho Brahe the Encyclopedia 
Britannica says:The fulfillment of the details of 
this prophecy suggests that Tycho Brahe had had 
some basis of reason for his prediction." (‘) 

Among the famous who studied Astrology even 
if they did not practise it. were: Copernicus. 
Galileo, Kepler. Huygens, Flammarion, Roger 
Bacon, Napier of Merchistoun (the inventor of 
logarithms). Sir Christopher Heydon and Ellas 


112 


Ashmole, founder of the Ashmolean Museum in 
Oxford. 


Courtesy: Seeing into the Future by Harvey Day 


Benjamin Franklin and Astrology 


NE of the firmest believers in astrology was 

Benjamin Franklin, scientist, philosopher, 
diplomat, and the most outstanding American of 
his time. He believed nothing he could not test for 
himself and prove to be true. While at college he 
drew up the horoscope of a fellow student named 
Titan Leeds and calculated that he would die at 
3-20 p.m. on 7th October 1733 at the instant of 
the conjugation of the Sun and Mercury. Leeds 
died at the time predicted... 

Astrology was then a respectable art in America 
and many of the Fathers of the Revolution, among 
them Jefferson, Washington and Robert 
Campbell, author of Our Flag, practised it. 
Campbell says that the national flag was designed 
to express the symbolism of the flag and the nation 
in terms of the zodiac. 


Courtesy: Seeing into the Future by Harvey Day 


113 


CHAPTER FIVE 


THE HOAX OF "SCIENTIFIC 
TEMPER" 


A. The Narlikar Episode 
Gayatri Devi Vasudev 


A science degree tagging a name docs not 
automatically imbibe one with a scientific temper. 
At a time, in our country. when chaos rules and 
merit "has been stomped upon and trampled to 
death, it is not unusual for men with doctorates 
to claim ommniscience. and play to the galleries. 
Such men are small fry and best left to clamour 
amongst themselves. But what is tragic and ob- 
jectionable and must be viewed with serious con- 
cern is the ease with which men in responsible 
positions spread canards against Astrology. 


i attended a discussion meeting led by Prof. 
Narlikar on "Astronomy and the Scientific Out- 
look" held on 3-12-1985 at the Indian Institute of 
World Culture, Bangalore. under the auspices of 
the Centre for the History and Philosophy of 
Science. Prof. Narlikar chose to tread on areas he 
had not investigated and therefore, if he could 
claim to be one of genuine scientific temper, had 
no right to trespass into. 

* Incidentally, no scientist, official or otherwise, has 
tested even a single astrological principle found in Sanskrit 
classics on Astrology and which principles form the basis of 
the most amazing predictions of Indian astrologers. 


114 


One of the topics he chose for discussion was 
something about beliefs that had their origins in 
astronomy. He took up Astrology as one such 
belief and said it was not a science. His argu- 
ment was that according to the Greeks, the word 
planet meant "wanderer". The Greeks called a 
planet by this name because it did not seem to 
have a fixed path as it moved backwards and for- 
wards in its path round the Sun (probably the 
astrophysicist was referring to a _ planet's 
retrograde and direct motion although he did not 
make use of these terms). Since it moved in this 
manner, the Greeks, he said, thought planets had 
a will of their own. This will, they believed, 
planets exercised on man and this was the 
origin of Astrology as a belief. Since planets had 
no will really Astrology was not a science. 


1 was surprised that he should be so Ill-in- 
formed and that he should also subscribe to the 
theory of the Greek origin of Astrology. When the 


Scientific Dogma 

Rigid and intolerant ideas, ideas which assert in effect 
that “lam in possession of the truth, the whole truth, every 
bit of the truth,and nobody outside the pale has it", narrow 
men's minds, shutting the door against a tolerant and ob- 
jective approach, where men net only look up at the 
heavens without fear but are also prepared to look down 
into the pit of hell without fear. It seems to me that people 
in the Buddha's time were more advanced in tolerance and 
compassion than we are, although they were not so ad- 
vanced in technology and science.... 


115 


question hour came | told him that Astrology was 
Hindu in its origin, being a Vedanga. it was 
based on the theory that a correlation exists be- 
twecn celestial phenomena and terrestrial events. 
It was not a cause and effect relationship be- 
tween man and the universe. Since he was mis- 
taken in the definition of Astrology, he could not 
dismiss it as of no consequence and as a mere 
belief with no locus standi. What did he have to 
say now about Astrology? The astrophysicist gave 
no answer. 


While dismissing Astrology, he further said 
that astrologers had charged scientists with com- 
ing to a conclusion that Astrology was not scien- 
tific without ever having made a study of it. He 
asserted he had details of investigations made on 
Astrology. He said even allowing for a wide mar- 
gin of error, none of the astrological dicta had 
been proved by scientific studies. When I asked 
him where the studies had been conducted and 


The scientist is supposed to be an objective seeker 
after truth. Science has grown because in a large measure 
the great scientists have sought truth tn that way. But I 
suppose no man today, not even a scientist, can live in a 
world of his own, in some kind of ivory tower, cut off from 
what is happening. Therefore, science today has perhaps 
begun to cross the borders of morals and ethics. If it gets 
divorced completely from the realm of morality and ethics 
then the power it possesses may be used for evil purposes. 
But above all, if it ties itself to the gospel of hatred and 
violence, then undoubtedly it will have taken a wrong direc- 
tion which will bring much peril to the world. I plead with 
the scientists here and elsewhere to remember that the 
scientific spirit is essentially one of tolerance, one of 


116 


when, whether the results of such studies had 
been published and who were those who had 
made such studies and what were the astrological 
laws tested, he said nothing again, although he 
had initially claimed he had the references with 
him. I think a man of his stature should be more 
responsible and closer to truth. Lesser folk such 
as displaced educationists and rationalists can 
get emotional, hysterical and talk a lot of non- 
sense. But it is a Serious matter when it comes 
from an officially designated scientist from a 
prestigious institution. 


Another statement this astrophysicist made 
was Sanskrit was suited for literature, not 
science. Grandoisely he conceded that a slokaby 
Aryabhata (he did not quote which or from where 
it was) had said that the earth moved round the 
Sun, yet the Sun appeared to nse and set just as 
aman in a boat sailing in a river saw the tree on 
the bank moving. He said this was true and cor- 


humility, one of realization that somebody else may also 
have a bit of the truth. Scientists should note that they do 
not have a monopoly of the truth: that nobody has a 
monopoly, no country, no people, no book. Truth is too vast 
to be contained in the minds of human beings, or in books, 
however sacred. 


Jawaharlal Nehru in his Speech at the Science Con- 
g ess, Caleutta, January 14, 1957. 


India And Western Science 
"Science has dominated the Western world and 
everyone pays tribute to it and yet the West is still far from 
having developed the real temper of Science. It has still to 


117 


rect but Sanskrit was such a versatile language 
that it could be interpreted in any way. Not one 
in the audience, which was supposed to be dis- 
tinguished for its intellectual stature, said a word 
in protest but nodded sheepishly. I wonder how 
many Sanskrit scholars will agree with the 
astrophysicist on this kind of versatility of this 
beautiful language. No other language can be as 
precise In sound and sense as Sanskrit. The 
latest findings of scientists is that Sanskrit is the 
most suitable language for computer-use. 


There were many contradictions in what Mr. 
Narlikar said. When questioned about Newton's 
and Tycho Brahe's respect for Astrology, not- 
withstanding their scientific eminence, he said: 
"Perhaps Newton did not let the other aspects of 
his life Interfere when he was in the laboratory". 
What did he mean exactly? Was he hinting, as 
pointed out by Prof. Ramachandra Sharma, a 
noted psychologist of Bangalore who was also 


bring the spirit and flesh into creative harmony. In India, in 
many obvious ways, we have a greater distance to travel 
and yet there may be fewer major obstructions in our way 
for the essential basis of Indian thought for ages past, 
though not its later manifestations, fits in with the scientific 
temper and approach, as well as with internationalism. It is 
based on a fearless search for truth, on the solidarity of 
man. even on the divinity of everything living, and on the 
free and co-operative development of the individual and the 
species, ever to higher freedom and higher stages of human 
growth." (Discovery of India.) 


— Jawaharlal Nehru 


118 


present at the meeting, that Newton was ea 
schizophrenic, a’‘split. two different beings. ra- 
tional and irrational at the same time? But (here 
was one point he made when he said scientists 
were not necessarily scienttflc-mlnded! 
¢ (Reproduced from THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 
February 1986) 


119 


B. Suppressing Truth 

(Another favorite weapon some pseudo-intel- 
lectuals try to use against Astrology is a state- 
ment, said to have been signed by 186 scientists 
(including some Nobel prize-winners "| condemn- 
ing Astrology that appeared in Humanist. This 
statement was issued in 1975. The matter did not 
stop there. 186+1 = 187 people with academic 
degrees issued another statement contradicting 
the Humanist statement. Now read on for the 
facts and how a real scientist rates the unscien- 
tific statement flaunted by critics of Astrology]. 


Closed and Open Minds 
There is no bar to knowledge greater than contempt 
prior to examination. 
Herbert Spencer. 


Incidentally Dr. S. Chandrasekhar whose name is in- 
cInded in the ist of Nobel Laureates who signed the statement 
1n 1975 won the Nobel prize only in 1983. This proves those 
who quote this statement have no respect for truth and are 
unfit to investigate Qruth. In 1983, Dr.Subrahmanyam 
Chandrasekhar says in an article published in Readers' 
Digest: “Scientists seem to develop a certain arrogance 
towards nature. They imagine their success in one area means 
they have a special way of looking at science that must there- 
fore be right. But it has been shown over and over that the 
kinds of truth which underlie nature transcend even the most 
powerful minds." 


Courtesy: Astrology: Science or Superstition? by 
H.J. Eysenck and D.K.B.Nias. 


120 


There is no doubt about the popularity of 
astrology. According to various opinion polls 
roughly a third of the population of Western 
countries believes in it and another third is inter- 
ested enough to read astrological predictions, at 
least occasionally. The last third remains uncon- 
cerned or sceptical... 

In reaction to this surge of credulity. other 
people hurry in to denounce everything to do 
with astrology as an absurd fraud, and among 
these opponents a number of scientists have been 
prominent. The American Humanist (a magazine 
devoted to discussions of social problems and ir- 
rationatity} in its September 1975 issue, carried 
the following statement, entitled ‘Objections to 
Astrology’. lt was endorsed by 186 leading scien- 
tists, including 18 Nobel Prize winners. 


Scientists in a variety of fields have become concerned 
about the increased acceptance of Astrology in many parts of 
the world. We, the undersigned-astronomers, astrophysicists, 
and scientists in other fleldswish to caution the public 
against the unquestioning acceptance of the- predictions and 
advice given privately and publicly by astrologers. (Those who 
wish to believe in Astrology should realise that there is no 
scientific foundation for its tenets). 


In ancient times people believed in the predictions and 
advice of astrologers because Astrology was part and parcel of 
their magical world view. They looked upon celestial objects as 
abodes or omens of the Gods and, thus, intimately connected 
with events here on earth: they had no concept of the vast 


121 


distances from the earth to the planets and stars. Now that 
these distances can and have been calculated, we can scc how 
infinitesimally small are the gravitational and other effects 
produced by the distant planets and the far more distant 
stars. It is simply a mistake to imagine that the forces exerted 
by stars and planets at the moment of birth can in any way 
shape our futures. Neither is it true that the positions of dis- 
tant heavenly bodies make certain days or periods more 
favourable to particular kinds of action, or that the sign under 
which one was born determines one's compatibility or incom- 
patibility with other people. 


Why do we believe in astrology? In these uncertain times 
many long for the comfort of having gnidance in making 
decisions. They wonld like to believe in a destiny predeter- 
mined by astral forces beyond their control. However, we must 
all face the world, and we must realise that our futures lie in 
ourselves, and not in the stars. 


One wonld {tmagine, in this day of widespread enlighten- 
ment and education, that it wonld be nnnecessary to debunk 
beliefs based on magic and superstition. Yet, acceptance of 
astrology pervades modern society. We arc especially disturbed 
by the continued uncritical dissemination of astrological 
charts, forecasts, and horoscopes by the media and by other- 
wise reputable ncwspapers, magazines, and book publishers. 
This can only contribute to the growth of irrationalism and 
obscurantism. We believe that the time has come to challenge 
directly, and forcefully, the pretentions claims of astrological 
charlatans. 


It shonld be apparent that those individnals who con- 
tinne to have faith In Astrology do so in spite of the fact that 
there is no verified ‘scientific basis for their beliefs, and indeed 
that there is strong evidence to the contrary. 


122 


in the editorial it was explained that both the 
American Ethical Union and the American 
Humanist Association - the co-publishers of The 
Humanist - had long been opposed to cults of un- 
reason and irrationalism (under which they also 
classify religion, of course). The editor went on to 
ask: "What better way to demonstrate this in this 
anniversary issue than by a major critique of 
Astrology?" Professor Bart J. Bok, a former presi- 
dent of the American Astronomical Society, was 
invited to draft a brief statement listing some 
scientific objections to Astrology. This was sub- 
sequently revised and expanded to the statement 
quoted above and then sent to a selected list of 
distinguished members’ of . the American 
Astronomical Society and the National Academy 
of Sciences for endorsement. 


The signed statement was subsequently sent 
to thousands of newspaper editors in the United 
States and abroad, with the suggestion that they 
print it. especially if they carried a dally or week- 
ly horoscope column. The intention, of course,” 
was to counter the ever-increasing trend for 
Astrology to be foisted on an unsuspecting public 
which Is rarely exposed to scientific criticisms of 
it. This was an honourable intention, but as we 
shall show it is questionable whether the 
statement is true. It is also unscientific in its 
approach. This point was well made by Carl 
Sagan, a scientist who declined to sign, in the 
following letter to The Humanist. 


123 


t find mysclf unable to endorse the ‘Objecttons to 
Astrology! statement ISeptember/October, 1975) - not because 
1 feel that Astrology has any validity whatever, but because t 
felt and still feel that the tone of the statement ts 
authoritarian. The fundamental point {s not that the origins of 
Astrology are shronded in superstition. This is true as well for 
chemistry. medicine, and astronomy, to mention only three. To 
dtscuss the psychological motivations of those who believe in 
Astrology scems to be quite peripheral to the tssuc of its 
validity. That we can think of no mechanism for Astrology ts 
relevant but unconvincing. No mechanism was known, for ex- 
ample, for continental drift when it was proposed by Wegener. 
Nevertheless, we sce that Wegener was right and those who 
objected on the grounds of unavailable mechanism were 
wrong. 

Statements contradicting borderitne, folk, or pseudo- 
science that appear to have an authoritarian tone can do more 
danger than good. They never convince those who are flirting 
with pseudo- science but merely seem to confirm their im- 
pression that scientists are rigid and close-minded.... 


What i wonld have signed ts a statement describing and 
refuting the principal tenets of astrological belief. My belief is 
that such a statement would have been far more persuasive 
and would have produced vastly less controversy than the one 
that was actually circulated. ~ 


Authority or evidence? 

The scientists who signed The Humanist 
statement agreed that Astrology was folkore and 
superstition and that there was no _ scientific 


124 


basis for it. Unfortunately, they do not seem to 
have investigated any evidence that would have 
supported or disproved their claim, and so their 
response seems to have been largely emotional. 
Rather than appealing to their authority, it would 
have been better if they had simply presented 
evidence. This point was well made by Einstein in 
response to criticisms of his work. In 1920, a 
racist German group tried to refute the theory of 
relativity by holding an emotional meeting in the 
Beriin Philharmonic Hall, and then by persuading 
a hundred professors to condemn _ Einstein's 
theory in a book. Einstein commented: Were 1 
wrong, one professor would have been quite 
enough. 


In addition to the ‘appeal to authority’ other 
weaknesses occur in the statement. Feyerabend 
(1978) points out that the 186 scientists made 
the mistake of criticising the basic assumptions 
of Astrology rather than the way in which it is 
practised. He observed that it is interesting to see 
how closely both parties approach each other in 
ignorance, conceit and the wish for easy power 
over minds. He also notes that, following the 
statement, many of the scientists declined in- 
terviews because they had not studied Astrol- 
ogy. It appears they had signed merely on the 
basis of a 'religiously' felt conviction(bold ours) 


Feyerabend claims that the conviction led the 
astronomers to overlook even evidence they were 
familiar with. For example, in an article accom- 
panying the statement. Bok (1975) had stated 


125 


that because ol their distance from us, the 
planets could not influence human affairs; he 
similarly assumed that the walls of the delivery 
room would shield the new-born child from radia- 
tion emitted by the planets. He made these state- 
ments even though, as an astronomer, he should 
have known that the planets might influence 
solar activity which in turn has various effects on 
us; It is also known that certain types of radia- 
tion can penetrate very thick walls to which a 
delivery room would not be an exception. 


The scientists’ statement prompted a contrary 
statement published in 1976 by the astrological 
journal Aquarian Agent. This statement claimed 
that Astrology is at least a valid area of research, 
and that It is Important to distinguish 'Sun sign 
frauds' from genuine astrologers, who take far 
more factors into account than the sign of the 
zodiac under which one is born. Signatures for 
this statement were obtained from 187 (!) people 
with academic degrees. This, while also appearing 
in authority, does seem to take a less prejudiced 
view. Of course, simply to state that you are In 
favour of further research is to say little more 
than being against sin and for motherhood, but 
even this is an advance on the simple, prejudiced 
refusal to examine the evidence. 

It is of course possible that there is no truth 
in any part of Astrology. The point is that the 
186 scientists have not demonstrated this. To do 
so would involve systematically examining all the 


126 


available evidence in favour of Astrology and then 
showing how it is invalid .... 

It is against this background of undisguised 
hostility, rather than of receptiveness to new 
ideas and experiments, that open- minded scien- 
tists have had to fight in their attempts to estab- 
lish whether or not there is any truth in Astrol- 
ogy. They have even had to defend their right to 
do research in this field. As a result, established 
scientists have often found it best to say nothing, 
rather than incur derision; only a few have had 
the courage to admit that 'there might be some- 
thing in it’, 


Prejudice 

Prejudice means literally pre-judgment, the rejection 
of a contention out of hand, before examining the evidence. 
Prejudice is the result of powerful emotions, not of sound 
reasoning. If we wish to find out the truth of a matter we 
must approach the questions with as nearly open a mind 
as we can, and with adeep awareness of our own limita- 
tions and predispositions. On the other hand, if after care- 
fully and openly examining the evidence, we reject the 
proposition, that ts not prejudice . It might be called "post- 
judice™. It is certainly a prerequisite for knowledge. 


Critical and skeptical examination is the method used 
in everyday practical matters as well as in science. When 
buying a new or used car we think it prudent to insist on 
written warranties test drives and checks of particular 
parts. We are very careful about car dealers who are evasive 
on these points. ...Where skeptical observation and discus- 
sion are suppressed, the trut i hidden, 


- Carl Sagan. 


127 


C. Rejoinders to The Humanist 
Statement 


1. Astrology And Unscientific Prejudices 
B.A.Kumar Babu, B.E., M.S. 


There have been appearing in recent times 
critical and cheap attacks on Astrology. Because 
of the wide publicity they received, of particular 
interest Is a statement published In The 
Humanist and signed by some physicists and 
astronomers. Though clothed in scientific jargon 
the statement published is nothing more than a 
hastily pieced together, ill-conceived and unscien- 
tific criticism of Astrology and astrologers. 


What distinguishes the 20th century from the 
dark ages is the fact that people have realised 
that a scientist in any field is not omniscient and 
that all he knows is Just an extremely tiny frac- 
tion of the sum-total of human knowledge. It 
might very well be said that because of his con- 
centration on a very small item he gets a totally 
distorted view of everything else. If you have any 
doubts about this fact try looking at your door 
with your eyes about a millimetre from it and see 
how it appears. Thus it is that a Nobel prize In 
any field does not count for much except in the 
extremely narrow and specialised field of research 
that the Nobel laureate is involved in. The state- 
ment published in The Humanist bristles with in- 
consistencies and it is interesting to examine it in 
detail. 


(1) “Those who wish to believe In Astrology 


128 


should reaslise that there is no scientific founda- 
tion for its tenets.” 

This presupposes that the signatories of the 
statement are very conversant with the tenets of 
Astrology. 1t would be interesting to see if even 
ten percent of these people know how to cast a 
horoscope, let alone how to interpret it. As far as 
scientific foundations are concerned, it has to be 
realised that there is a difference between "known 
scientific foundations" and the relatively longer 
expanse of the unknown and unexplained scien- 
tific phenomena. Science knows that light is an 
electromagnetic wave. But has it ever really been 
able to explain why it is so? If you go to the root 
of any scientific principle you will find that at 
some stage it begins in a hypothesis. 


(2) The statement says that the ancients had 
"no concept of the vast distances from the earth 
to the planets". 

It is surprising that a group of such 
specialists as those who issued a statement in 
The Humanist have made remarks that border on 
the ridiculous. Obviously the signatories (who in- 
clude astronomers) do not reaslise that without a 
concept of such distances it would have been im- 
possible to cast a horoscope which in its simplest 
form is a chart showing the longitudes of some 
celestial bodies with respect to a reference point. 


It might be a comfortable thought to Imagine 
that our futures lie in ourselves. But life is such 
that in any major thing we do we are held down, 
influenced and many times thwarted from doing 


129 


what we want to do by social, religious, family, 
economic and other compulsions that it is but- 
natural to speculate whether such compulsions 
which bog us down are in any way indicated by 
extra- terrestrial phenomena. Until proved. other- 
wise we may well suppose that it is the order of 
nature that there is a correlation between the 
movements of planets and the direction of man. 


In Lawrence E. Jerome's article in The 
Humanist there is a caption which says that the 
author has done extensive research on Astrology. 
Jerome and The Humanist must be having their 
own unique definition of * extensive research". He 
displays considerable ignorance in tracing the 
history of Astrology. Nowhere does he mention 
Astrology in India - and Astrology has existed in 
India for thousands of years. Astrology was 
propounded in India not by charlatans and 
magicians but by the same sages who enunciated 
the highest philosophical truths which are un- 
matched in their content by any philosopher or 
scientist of today - Eastern or Western. 


Lawrence Jerome talks about the principle of 
correspondences as the basis of all Astrology. Lit- 
tle does he realise that the entire gamut of physi- 
cal sciences is developed on the same basis. 

The whole problem with people who make ir- 
relevant attacks on Astrology is that they start on 
a wrong scientific premise. They accept that 
Astrology is all wrong and then go about trying to 
prove it. As such their vision gets blurred and 
coloured so much so that important facts are 


130 


brushed aside as of no consequence because they 
are inconvenient. Under such "unscientific condi- 
tions” how can truth be arrived at? Though 
Jerome goes about trying to make a statistical 
case against Astrology he himself concedes that 
statistics can be easily manipulated (consciously 
or unconsciously) to yield the desired results. 


In the same issue of The Humanist is an ar- 
ticle by Bart J. Bok. an astronomer. He starts off 
his tirade against Astrology by calling it a 
pseudo-science. If at all there is a branch of 
knowledge which has made little or no progress 
in a thousand years it is astronomy. Except for 
some very basic facts regarding our solar system 
astronomers have done nothing but indulge in 
theoretical speculation which is a scientific word 
for ‘useless work'. Why should so much _ public 
money be squandered on a subject so unsure of 
itself? Whether it is the age of the earth or of the 
Universe, the origin of life or something else 
astronomers just do not seem to agree on any- 
thing. Everyone of them comes out with weird 
ideas which look logical enough on paper but are 
essentially self-contradictory. Astronomers spend 
years and years wasting public money and do no 
useful service. It is time the public took a critical 
look at the work of astronomers. It is not a co-in- 
cidence that the majority of the signatories are 
astronomers - it is because they feel insecure 
about the irrelevance of whatever they are doing 
that they have to bring out cudgels against 
another branch of knowledge. 


131 


In the same article Bok talks about the Moon 
and other planets having similar physical proper- 
ties. In the first place irrespective of what proper- 
ties planets possess let us concede that we are 
talking about correspondence of phenomenon and 
not a cause and effect relationship. The fact that 
we do not know why a certain phenomenon hap-. 
pens does not imply that the existence of that 
phenomenon itself is in doubt. It only means that 
the frontiers of science have still a long way to 
go. If 1 did not know why light has to be an 
electromagnetic radiation and not something else, 
does it mean that the existence of light is itself. 
unscientific. 


There is ample proof to show that Astrology 
can be used as a very valuable aid in studying 
the psycho-physical characteristics of a person. 
There is proof to show that it is valuable in long 
term weather forecasting. There are proofs to 
show that It is an extremely valuable and power- 
ful tool in the hands of man to help him lead a 
more sane existence. + 


It is time conventional scientists stretched 
their mental horizons to include branches of 
knowledge they do not comprehend. When Edison 
was asked to define electricity he said: "Why 
define? it exists. Use it." Why not we use Astrol- 
ogy in the same way? 

There might come a time in future when ad- 
vances made in other branches of knowledge 
would solve the mystery of why terrestrial hap- 
penings are in synchronism with planetary move- 


132 


ments but till then let us not waste time arguing 
whether Astrology is scientific or not - but let us 
use it. 

(Reproduced from THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 


April 1976.) 


li). About Astrology 
Buell D. Huggins 


But tf the humanists have doubts and fears 
about the United Nations, in this issue they had 
more about the stars, which to them are just in- 
animate bodies so far away that none of them, 
not even the Sun. could possibly give light and 
warmth to inhabitants of the earth, much less af- 
fect their physical appearance, personality, or ter- 
restrial destiny. 


it is astonishing how the humanists uphold 
psychologists, most of whom - Skinner. Watson, 
Freud and others - have been firm believers tn 
determinism, but when it comes to Astrology 
Lawrence Jerome concludes his article “Astrology: 
Magic. or Science" with the statement that to 
believe in Astrology ts "to abandon free will". Evi- 
dently, Jerome does not know that most 
astrologers accept free will, and that it is the 
scientists and psychologists who reject it. Just 
eight months earlier (January - February 1975 
issue), The Humanist editor Paul’ Kurtz, in a 
diatribe against religion, wrote as follows: 

"The religious believer insists that he is free 
for he is created In God's image. But the problem 


133 


of evil turns this eternal drama into a divine 
comedy. God entrusted me with the power and 
freedom of choice, yet he will punish me ifi stray 
from Him. Why did he not program me during the 
act of creation, so that 1 could not avoid knowing 
Him and following His guidelines? Since it is He 
who created me. why does He condemn me for 
satisfying my natural inclinations, which He im- 
planted in me? Why does He permit suffering and 
pain, torment and tragedy, disease, strife, war 
and plunder, conflict and chaos?" 


Is it not plain that Kurtz does not believe in 
free will? 


Jerome further claims that humanists believe 
in rationality, or rationalism. Yet this hardly 
seems possible. When rationalism was the 17th 
century philosophy of Rene Descartes. Gottfried 
Leibniz and Baruch Spinoza, who believed not 
only in rationality, or reason, but also intuition 
and apriori knowledge. Kurtz and his fellow 
humanists belong to the camp of the empiricists 
and pragmatists who came along later—David 
Hume, Gerbert Spencer. John Dewey. Bertrand 
Russell. 


Jerome's linking of Astrology with magic is 
another blunder. Magic is a ritual performance 
involving slight-of-hand tricks and other In- 
genious acts which children and the uneducated 
are prone to link with the mystical or super- 
natural. Astrology, on the other hand, is based 
upon the powers and laws of nature and upon 
the electromagnetic, gravitational and _ radiative 


134 


effects of those powers - the planets and 
luminaries. 

Nor is Astrology a mode of fortune-telling. Of 
the 30 types of fortune-telling listed in Collier's 
Encylopaedia, Astrology is not mentioned, though 
dreams, the Bible, tea leaves, animal livers, the 
crystal ball, the Tarot and other cards are listed. 
While there may be some connection between 
magic and fortune- telling, there is none between 
magic and Astrology. And the horary branch of 
Astrology, the least favoured and practised of all 
branches, is the only one which has any 
resemblance to fortune-telling, divination and 
omens. 


Jerome's complaint about the "daily horo- 
scopes" in the newspapers does, we admit, have 
some validity. But did he ever stop to figure out 
why the “daily horoscopes" are there? They are 
there simply because there is a demand for 
them—just as there is a demand for the comic 
strips, the recipes, sports section, the crossword 
puzzle, and the women's section. In recent years, 
the newspaper publishers have discovered that 
certain readers are interested in Astrology. Most 
of the publishers know nothing about it and care 
nothing about it, but to supply the demand of 
certain readers and increase , on the one hand 
(and to appease the rest by publishing simple 
transits or "daily horoscopes" on the other) they 
publish these non- sensical columns based upon 
the tropical Sun-sign alone. If a competent 


135 


astrologer were to offer them the true horoscope 
of George Washington, they would turn it down. 

Jerome finds fault with astrologers using 
statistics. Prof. Skinner, the psychologist. does 
not like statistics, either, stating in one of his 
books that psychologists should use the 
laboratory. Does Jerome want Prof. Skinner to 
put him in a laboratory for several months for 
an experiment, along with the pigeons and mice? 
Astronomers cannot use the laboratory, either, 
being unable to capture the planets and put 
them there; so, like astrologers, they use mathe- 
matics. 


Bart J.Bok, in his article "A Critical Look of 
Astrology" wonders why astrologers do not use 
the time of conception, instead of the time of 
birth, for casting the horoscope. if Bok can give 
us a foolproof method of arriving at the moment 
of conception, we will be glad to use it. The an- 
cient Hindu astrologer, Satyacharya. said the 
time of conception might be preferable, but that 
it could not be discovered. We will let the scien- 
tists discover it. However, Bok should know that 
if a conception horoscope were used, it would be- 
come the object of the severest criticism and 
ridicule, since the humanists and scientists, who 
favour abortion, do not consider even the foetus 
an “entity”, let alone the moment of conception, 
and the courts do not consider the foetus a ""per- 
son". So the moment of conception, before the 
foetus formed, would be too much like "magic" or 
an accident for the humanists and scientists. And 


136 


if the walls of a room shield a baby from the 
radiative effects of the planets, as Bok contends, 
does he hot think there would be much more 
shielding inside the uterus? 


Bok. Jerome and Kurtz all spoke of the bad 
psychological effects that predictions could have 
on one. Jerome feared the Gemini native might 
conclude he had a "split nature" and become 
schizophrenic. Yet he furnished no proof that the 
majority of schizophrenics are Geminis. 


According to radio' and television news com- 
mentators, buyers of securities in the stock 
market are very’ strongly Influenced by 
"psychological factors". We are for ever being told 
that it was a very bad day at the stock exchange 
because of a report that some city is bankrupt, or 
the oil producing countries have raised their 
prices, or the steel workers went on strike, or the 
President was hospitalized. or a dictator seized 
power in some foreign country. How people intel- 
ligent enough and rich enough to buy expensive 
stocks could be so psychologically immature is 
not understood. They certainly lack Jerome's 
"rationality". But then may be they are.all Gemini 
people. A "scientific survey" of all schizophrenics 
and stock purchasers should be made immedi- 
ately. 


The Humanist statement blasting Astrology 
was shipped to thousands of news editors in the 
United States and abroad. Science News 
magazine (September 13, 1975 issue) noted that 
the Washington. D.C. Star editor called it "the 


137 


most futile broadside of recent memory." Science 
News then concluded: "Whether any minds have 
been changed remains to be seen." If Astrology 
could survive persecution by the medieval 
Church, it is likely to outlive another scholarly 
blast". With this the astrological savant agrees. 
(Reproduced from THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 


February 1976.) 


The Evils of Specialisation 

We must return to the study of the whole man. In- 
creasing specialisation in practice has ted to increased ]:Om- 
partmentalism, departmentalism and _ fragmentation in 
teaching, with all the evils that follow. The doctor must 
never forget that man is more than the sum of his parts. 
Basic medical teaching must aim at presenting a ‘synoptic’ 
view of man, in health and in disease. Unless this be 
achieved, then the training will be misdirected in aim. in 
structure and in balance. The student will lack the neces- 
sary guiding principles when confronted with the novel 
situations which rear daily in front of him in typical prac- 
tice. 


— Margery Blake. 


Astrology is Astronomy brought to earth and applied to 
the affairs of man 


— Emerson. 


138 


D. Rationalist Plays to the Galleries 
Gayatri Devi Vasudev 


In the mid-seventies, Prof. N.K. Narasimha 
Murthy, retired Professor of Mathematics, Mysore 
University, wrote a small book _ entitled 
Manavanamele  Grahangala  Prabhava Unte (Do 
Planets Influence Man) in Kannada. It was writ- 
ten for and under the inspiration and guidance of 
a local rationalist Mr.Narasimhiah. an erstwhile 
Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University. This 
book was a hastily written affair, full of con- 
tradictions. It contained some cheap _ gibes 
against Astrology. 


At the book-releasing function held at the 
Senate Hall in the Central College Grounds, Ban- 
galore, the erstwhile Vice-Chancellor chuckled 
into the mike that since the Sun, the Moon, 
Rahu and Ketu were not planets Astrology was 
proved baseless and not science. It was simply 
the rationalist's concept of Astrology and of 
definitions used in this science and had absolute- 
ly no relation to the proper definitions used in 
the science. Amused by such peurile and infantile 
criticism, I walked upto the man and asked him 
if he had studied Astrology. In order to 
pronounce judgement on a subject, one must 
know not only its basics such as definitions but 
a lot more of it. Criticism, from a point of ig- 
norance, is both invalid and untenable. The 
rationalist's answer only exposed his hypocrisy 
and blas against the subject. 


139 


“Where do I have the time to study it?” he 
said. The next moment he realized the cat was 
out of the bag and hastily scampered into his 
waiting car and drove away refusing to answer 
my questions. It is exactly such bias that Carl 
Sagan refers to when he says "Prejudice means 
literally pre-judgement, the rejection of a conten- 
tion out of hand, before examining the evidence. 
Prejudice is the result of powerful emotions, not 
of sound reasoning. if we wish to find out the 
truth of the matter we must approach the ques- 
tion with as nearly open a mind as we can, and 
with a deep awareness of our own limitations and 
predispositions. On the other hand, if after care- 
fully and openly examining the evidence, we 
reject the proposition, that is not pre-judice. It is 
certainly a prerequisite for knowledge...." 


Mr.Narasimhaih's is a case in point. He only 
displayed his ignorance of Astrology by his 
criticism. What has that to do with Astrology 
being a science? 

A great scientist Dr.Richard Garnette sums 
up such attitudes lucidly when he says”....the 
study of facts and the observation of nature must 
always be stronger than any abstract reasoning: 
and the investigation of the arguments brought 
against Astrology will disclose a great reluctance 
on the part of the objector to resort to the tes- 
timony of facts, and a thoroughly unscientific 
habit of mind". 

Another firsthand experience was of 
Mr. Narasimha Murthy confiding in my father 


140 


Dr. Raman that he had anticipated his mother's 
death to the particular day on the basis of the 
Moon crossing the Vipat-tarafrom her birth star. 
This damning confession from Mr. Murthy under- 
standably created a stir amongst the don's group 
and led us to believe he had been coerced into 
lending his name to the book already mentioned 
implying he did not really endorse its contents. 
This confession came at the All India Radio Sta- 
tion, Bangalore, after a discussion on Astrology 
*between Dr. B. V. Raman and Mr. Murthy had 
been recorded with Mr. Justice Tukol as the 
moderator. The discussion was initially to be be- 
tween Dr.Raman and Mr.Narasimhiah, but like 
every time in the past, the latter stayed ‘away 
sending his deputy. 


Search for Truth 

By Investigation, experiment and reason. Every human 
being should be allowed to investigate to the extent of his 
desire-his ability. The literature of the world should be open 
to htm-nothing prohibited, sealed or htdden. No subject can 
be too sacred to be understood. Each peron should be al- 
lowed to reach his own conclusions and to speak his honest 
thought. 


He who threatens the investigator with punishment 
here, or hereafter, is an enemy of the human race. And he 
who trie to bribe the Investigator with the promise of eter- 
nal joy is a traitor to his fellow-men. 


There {s no real investigation without freedom, freedom 
from the fear of Gods and men. 


So, all itnvestigation—all experiment—should be pur- 
sued in the light of reason. _ « arse - zs 
- Robert Green Ingersoll 


141 


Validity of Astrology—-A Radio 
Discussion 

Justice Tukol I welcome today 
Dr.B.V.Raman, who is a well-known student and- 
an expert in Astrology. I welcome _ also 
Mr.Narasimha Murthy who had been a Professor 
of Mathematics im the Central College of the 
former Mysore University. Today we have met to 
discuss about the validity of Astrology or Astrol- 
ogy as a science. So. in view of the discussion, 
Prof. Raman may kindly define what is Astrology 
in the scientific sense. 

Dr.Raman : Astrology is a science of correla- 
tion of the movements of celestial bodies and ter- 
restial affairs which means natural phenomena 
physical phenomena and human _ psychological 
phenomena. In other words, Astrology is a 
science which deals with man's responses to 
planetary stimuli. 


And what are the objections of Mr.Narasimha 
Murthy to doubt the validity of Astrology? 

Mr.Murthy : We are discussing now about 
the validity of Astrology. That is the subject- 
matter. You have defined Astrology. 1 understand. 

{The discussion reproduced above was broadcast by the 
All-India Radio, Bangalore, on Ist December 1976 at 9-30 p.m. 
The participants were Dr.B.V. Raman. Editor. THE 
ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE, Justice T.K. Tukol, former Vice- 
Chancellor of Bangalore University and Mr. N.K. Narasimha 
Murthy, Retired Professor of Mathematics, Mysore University. 
Justice Tukol acted as moderator. The discussion was carried 
on extempore by the participants.] 


142 


We cannot consider Astrology as a valid science | 
emphasise sclence-because it is not a science, 
for, it has no definite units of measurements like 
length, mass and time which are there for all 
other sciences of modern times. Next, It is not 
based on the methods of experimentation, obser- 
vation and deduction as is done in other scien- 
ces. Statistical methods like the mean, the mode, 
the standard deviation, etc., ?re not employed in 
analysing the predictions of Astrology. | say it is 
not valid because its foundation Itself is unsound 
in my opinion. 


Dr.Raman : I think the objection raised by 
Mr. Narasimha Murthy cannot hold good in the 
light of the fact that all sciences cannot be 
reduced to occular demonstration. There are 
sciences like Psychology, Biology, Statistics which 
are not amenable to the methods of experimenta- 
tion, etc., which acording to Mr. Narasimha 
Muthy should form the basis of such validity. if 
by science you mean, reducing everything to oc- 
cular demonstration, then Astrology is not a 
science, Medicine is not a science, Psychology is 
not a science, Statistics is not a science. If by 
science you mean systematised knowledge, then 
Astrology is a science. Astrology Is so vast and 
comprehensive In its scope’that it embraces all 
phenomena in nature: for instance, weather 
forecasting, diseases, psychological aspects of 
human nature, events in human life. So Astrology 
is amenable to experimentation in respect to say, 
weather forecasting or prediction of natural 
events. Astrology has quite,a good deal of statis- 


143 


tics and quite a good deal of astrological facts to 
show that it is a science. For instance, History 
depicts the character of Shivaji and Aurangzeb. 
But it {S not possible to find out the character of 
Shivaji or the fact that Shivaji lived on the basis 
of science. J mean, Western science. By historical 
facts, we can establish that Shivaji lived or 
Aurangzeb lived. Similarly, we can adduce any 
amount of astrological facts to show that a cor- 
relation exists betweeen certain groupings of 
planets and certain events on earth. 

Justice Tukol : You mean to say that you 
can explain certain events of Shivaji's life or 
Aurangzeb's life by the planetary systems that ex- 
isted In their horoscope? 

Dr. Raman : What I suggested’ was Just as 
for demonstrating the truth of history we have to 
use histrotcal facts, similarly for demonstrating 
the truth of Astrology, we have to use astrological 
facts. Supposing in hundred horoscopes, Mars is 
in the second house.... 


Justice Tukol : That is exactly what I mean 
by saying... 

Dr. Raman : Mars is in the second house 
and there is some trouble with the eyes. So 1 am 
Justified in providing these statistics to show that 
in the 10lst horoscope, a similar situation of 
Mars might indicate a similar result. That is why 
we are going to astrological facts. 

Mr. Murthy : Have such sttistical methods 
been employed or is there any indication to show 


144 


that they had been employed by ancient Indian 
Astrologers as a method? 

Dr. Raman : Yes. The sages of yore might 
have discovered all these phenomena not merely 
by observation but also by intuition. In fact ac- 
cording to one of the great-scientists. Dr .Hans 
Eysenik, Professor of Psychology, General 
Medicine Hospital. London, "The only conclusion 
the unbiased observer can come to. must be. that 
there does exist a small number of people who 
obtain knowledge existing in other peoples' minds 
or in the outer world by means, as yet unknown 
to Science." Therefore, unknown to modem 
science does not mean that it can be unknown to 
sages also. They might have made a series ‘of ob- 
servations. They might have conceived that such 
groupings of planets may give rise to some such 
events and in the statistical studies that have 
been carried out subsequently, it has been clearly 
established that by a certain juxtaposition of 
planets, a certain event has happened. Much re- 
search in this line has not taken place in India, I 
must confess. But much research has taken 
place in Western countries because in the West, 
the scientists of the recent generation are open- 
minded. They have not made-up their minds, 
whereas our scientists still seem to feel that they 
must get the inspiration from the Westerners. 


Justice Tukol : If 1 have’ understood 
Mr. Narasimha Murthy. what he wants to say is 
whether there has been a study. by way of 
verification of what {is predicted by astrologers 


145 


and if it is of certain old individuals or ancient 
people. 

Mr. Murthy : Have the practising astrologers 
kept registers showing their clients' cases and the 
way in which they have predicted and  sub- 
sequently testifying whether they have succeeded 
in their predictions or failed. Whether it is in 
India or elsehwere, I would like to know if there 
is any regular documentation of such things in 
sufficient numbers to warrant a statemenl that 
there is a statistical method and if such things 
have been published in magazines available to 
many people and if such things are not published 
therc, are they published in India? I think many 
statistical persons, even individuals can publish 
such things. We are not telling of only this one, I 
am talking of ancient India of course, ancient 
India had no such statistics that I would like to 
know, they had no such terms, methods and 
other things, statistical methods such as means, 
mode and moderation and all those things. i do 
not think there were sciences like statistics 
formerly. 


Dr. Raman : We are not bothered about (he 
want of statistics in ancient India. We are now 
concerned with the proposition—Validity of 
Astrology, and not the validity of Astrology as 
devleoped by the ancients. So what they have 
given as principles have been applied in a" num- 
ber of cases and we find that they work In actual 
practice. 


146 


. Mr. Murthy : That I want to know. I would 
like to know statistics for the application of the 
ancient science of Astrology within the statistical 
frame work. 

Dr. Raman : Statistics has been applied and 
those principles that have not been found to be 
quite valid, they have not been accepted, they 
have been rejected. In this aspect, you must al- 
ways allow some margin for the deprecations of 
the professional astrologers. So whether they 
have preserved an account of their predictions 
and fulfilments I do not know. But I am not a 
professional Astrologer. So as a research scholar 
in Astrology. I have plenty of horoscopes which 
we have classified: we have found out which are 
the combinations for short life, so he has lived 
for so many years and these are the combina- 
tions for fall from political power. For instance, 
we went on making researches as to the sig- 
nificance of Saturn in the tenth house. So this 
idea came to my mind at the time of the second 
World War when the British Government wanted 
to know about their future. Then I collected the 
horoscopes of all these monarchs in Europe 
during whose times such world wars occurred. 
For instance. Georges Ill, V,. VI, Queen 
Elizabeth's. Spanish Armada—nobody expected 
that England would win but one chance storm 
destroyed the Armada. But astrologically we 
found that Phillip II, King of Spain, had Saturn 
in the tenth house, whereas Elizabeth had 
Jupiter in the tenth house. That is repeated in 
the horoscopes of George i and Napoleon; 


147 


George V and Kaiser and George VI and Hitler. So 
we came to the conclusion that Hitler would fall. 
This way, there is plenty of statistics which we 
were making available from time to time in the 
pages of THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE. This is 
so far as India fs concerned. But so far as the 
West {s concerned, many of the scientists have 
found out not only the theoretical basis of Astro- 
logy—they are not quite successful—but they have 
made experiments to find out how for Instance 
there would be change in the chemical composi- 
tion of certain fluids at the time of eclipses, how 
a certain position of planets In the meridian and 
the horizon—they have ignored all the technical 
aspects of Astrology but the have confined only to 
the astronomical constants—the position of Mars 
{mn the meridian and horizon predispose one to 
becoming an athlete or a military man, etc. So if 
you want, we can produce all that statistics to 
show that these principles hold good. 


Mr. Murthy : Astrology naturally arose out of 
the data supplied by Astronomy. Therefore an- 
cient Indian Astrology was based on ancient In- 
dian astronomy. Indian astronomy was Imperfect 
and defective. Astronomers after astronomers— 
Aryabhata, Varahamthira, Brahmagupta. Bhas- 
kara. Ganesha and Ketkar have declared previous 
Acharyas as {gnorant and their results as inac- 
curate. 

Dr. Raman : The proposition is reduced to 
this that the knowledge of Astronomy was not 
well developed and that Astrology has been 


148 


developed on the. basis of that knowledge of 
Astronomy. First t will come to this knowledge of 
Astronomy. Somehow, it has been our ill-luck 
that we have been treated to a dtstorted image of 
our ancient Indian achievements. Most of these 
astronomical books were written by Western 
scholars who had a certatn sense of prejudice 
and their bltnd Indian admtrers. 

Mr. Murthy : One minute Str, I have not 
quoted any Western astronomer so far, I have 
quoted only Indian texts and I am quoting Indian 
astronomers. Astronomer after astronomer has 
criticized the previous astronomer and there has 
been no defintte sctence ltke Astronomy and tt 
has been tnaccurate throughout. That is why I 
say it has been inaccurate. It has been corrected 
again and again by the application of what ts 
called as Beeja, and one of the last is Ganesha 
Daivagna who lived in the sixteenth century. 


eargh caret Wer Aq 


Even thts wil! become inaccurate in course of 
time. 


Bg oa ofcoetgagrenanang 


Then the tntelligent people will observe the 
Moon, the eclipses of the Moon, the planets in 
cornbination with the stars and all that. 


149 


ACAATEASM ITT STITT: 
ara sare ofears warret | 


With the help of the knowledge, they will find 
out the correct positions and put the planets into 
correct orbits. This is what Ganesha Daivagna 
has said. What I have now been saying is that 
Astrology which Is based on Indian Astronomy, 
but Indian Astronomy was not static. It has been 
improved from time to time while correct cor- 
responding improvements and corrections have 
not been noticed In Astrology. 

Justice Tukol : Would I be right if I say that 
all of them recognised that the Indian Astronomy 
was at a stage of evolution from one generation 
or from one person to the other and making 
gradual strides of progress from time to time? 

Dr. Raman : You have quoted the Siddhan- 
tas, the astronomical works relating to the Sid- 
dhanta period. There you see, our knowledge of 
Astronomy had already become decadlng by the 
time of the Siddhantas. What about the 
knowledge of Astronomy during the period of the 
Vedas? 

Mr. Murthy : Is it Improved by the period of 


Vedas? 
aang aaretaPaasa: | 
ararsyat fafecer war: | 
aentfad areafaurt Wea | 
a wifey ae a ae aay II 


150 


This is Vedanga Jyotisha—Lagadha—3rd or 
4th century B.C. 

Dr. Raman : My submission is, even regard- 
ing the Vedic Astronomy what we have tried to 
understand is only from the Vedanga Jyotisha. 
But there is an aspect of Astronomy which is to 
be found in the Atharvana Veda. For instance in 
the appendix to the Atharvana Veda, which con- 
sists of 16 formulae and which have been made 
public by the Sankaracharya of Puri in a book 
called Vedic Mathematics. For instance in the 
16 sutras, beginning from 
and ending with TTT PIS Aras 
simple formulae for world's mathematical, 
problems have been laid down. Dr.V.P. Dalial of 
the Heldelburg University feels impelled. as a 
mathematician, physicist and Sanskrit scholar, to 
put on record his comment on the following sloka 
couched In alphabetical code language. He gives 
the value of % (pye). 


aihranyara ofeenefr afar 
CAAA AATTATATS WARTATLAT | 


On the face of it, it 1s a hymn to Lord Krish- 
na. Actually this gives the value of ® (pye) as 
3.1415926535897932384626433822792. It 
shows how deeply the ancient Indian mathe- 
maticians penetrated Into the subtlety of their 
claculatlons even when the Greeks had no 
numerals above 1000 and their multiplications 
were so very complex which they performed 
with the help of their counting frames, by ad- 


151 


ding so many times the multiplier. Prof. Sen- 
gupta. former Professor of Mathematics in Calcut- 
ta University, has clearly shown after comparing 
Greek and Hindu methods in _— spherical 
astronomy. of the independence of Hindu 
Astronomers and that Hindu method is not 
derived from any Greek’ source. “Hindu 
astronomy in its scientific form is original and 
not borrowed from a foreign source. There is 
evidence that some crude form of Greek 
astronomy was transmitted to India and went by 
the name of the Romaka or Poulasa Siddhanta 
but they were rejected by our Astronomers." For 
instance, conversion of a vulgar fraction say 
1/19th of its equivalent recurring decimal frac- 
tion, involves 18 steps of cumbersome working 
according to the current system, but requires 
one single and simple step of mental working ac- 
cording to Vedic surras. So if you go to the Vedic 
period, I think they had very good knowledge of 
Astronomy and during the period of Siddhantas, 
there may have been some sort of a stagnation. 
Mr. Murthy + Not stagnation—Mayv 1 conclude 
that at the time of the Vedas. the Siddhantas had 
correct knowledge of Mathematical Astronomy 
and all that and only after these people Aryab- 
hata, Brahmagupta came, they spoiled the whole 
thing or they had forgotten the ancient. They did 
not know the Vedas and therefore they presented 
wrong values say value of ®% (pye) as 10 or 3 
which Brahmagupta has said and Sulbhasutras 
of ancient time—8th century B.C.—also gave the 


152 


wrong values, and this is the first time I am 
hearing that the value’of pye is corrected to so 
many places. 


Dr. Raman : Regarding the accuracy of 
planetary movements of course they based their 
calculations on mathematics as we do now. The 
Moon's synodical revolution according to Surya 
Siddhanta is 29.530587946 days. The period 
given by modern astronomy differs by 7/I00ths 
of a second so that in 5000 years the difference 
is about I . With this accuracy they felt they 
could study positions of planets in the various 
Rasis, and the consequent effects they envisaged. 


Mr. Murthy : The Surya Siddhanta has been 
corrected from time to time. I would just like to 
read this about Surya Siddhanta. "The latest 
Surya Siddhanta has been the Almagen of India 
for the last I5 centuries and has been acknow- 
fledged as an authority on all matters of 
phenomena. All the subsequent works’ on 
Astronomy—Indian Astronomy of course—have 
been more or less based on it ahd it is very much 
venerated in India as being a direct revelation 
from the Sun. But it would be unreasonable to 
adhere to it in future when the great discoveries, 
the accurate observations and_ the _ refined 
methods of calculations of modern European 
astronomers are available to us. We must 
venerate and admire it as an ancient relic tes- 
tifying to the high degree ot excellence at- 
tained by ancients under very adverse cir- 
cumstances." Already Panchangas based on the 


153 


nautical almanac have gamed_ considerable 
popularity among the educated men for their per- 
fect agreement with easily observable phenomena, 
such as eclipses and conjugation of planets. I will 
Just say this that I had an interview with one of 
the Panchanga makers, one or two of them, one 
admitted that he used French tables in preparing 
his Panchanga, the other said nautical almanac 
was used in giving data about the eclipses and 
even the latest Panchanga. you give 9.04 minutes 
as the starting of the eclipse and 9.04 minutes 
cannot be by any means got by means of your 
Ghatis and the ancient calculations. 


Dr. Raman : Now, if accuracy is the only 
basis, then all sciences including Physics and 
Chemistry started with primitive instrumentation 
but does it then invalidate those sciences? 

Mr. Murthy : I have said that Astronomy is 
continuously improving. Why Astrology Is static— 
I have said that point. 


Dr. Raman : Astrology cannot be static be- 
cause we all are adopting only the modern cal- 
culations. What can be adapted to suit modern 
conditions have been adapted. What cannot be 
used have been rejected. But in acutal practice. 
some astrologers say that you have Vahana Yoga, 
that.you have Gaja Yoga and so on, if the predic- 
tions are" given, we cannot blame It on Astrology. 
It is as much a science as for instance medicine 
is. 


Mr. Murthy : In the case of medicine, a cer- 
tain research is made and a man thinks that you 


154 


can try. He will first try it on a number of rats or 
a number of rabbits. When he its satisfied that it 
is alright he will give it out to the world, and the 
Government 1S very particular im seeing that 
proper tests are made and otherwise it will be 
considered as spurious drug and precautions will 
have to be taken because it is a matter of life and 
death. It is not merely a dictum of a certain per- 
son. 

Dr. Raman ; [| find that penicillin im one case 
causes death and in another case, causes relief. 

Mr. Murthy : Quite right. 

Dr. Raman : Penicillin has been tried and 
teseted In a number of cases but why should 
one... 
Mr. Murthy : It is the same in all the cases 
because, you are not interacting dead elements. 
There is a human cell which reacts .... 

Dr. Raman : So you have an excuse.... 

Mr. Murthy : No- excuse and_= every 
medicine... 

Dr. Raman : Or explanation. 

Mr. Murthy : A man dies after taking a cup 
of Panaka—can't say why~There is a reaction. It 
is not a bad thing. 

Dr. Raman : [ know. Similarly a certain com- 
bination, it may apply in one case and a certain 
combination, it may not apply In another case. 

Mr. Murthy : Quite right Sir. 


Dr. Raman : Just a minute. If you want 
statistics, and if you think statistics has not been 


155 


done. I submit. that you collect 1000 horoscopes 
and then you yourself can make _ statistical 
studies to disprove Astrology, as one of the 
eminent scientists In Western country Michel Ga- 
quelin tries to do. That can be done but I say.... 

Mr. Murthy : You say that statistics have 
been collected in Western countries. 

Dr. Raman : And also in India. 

Mr. Murthy : Large number of statistics have 
been collected and all that. 

Dr. Raman : Yes. 

Mr. Murthy : If that ts done, it Is alright. 1 
say that statistics have not been collected. 

Dr. Raman : To give one instance, as to the 
validity of these astrological principles, you know 
nowadays, by sending the space vehicles, scien- 
tists have been able to measure solar radiation, 
intensities and so on. Now the scientists have 
been able to find that the outburst of solar flares 
have a very significant effect on terrestrial 
phenomena. So when there js a solar flare, the 
effect of the solar flare is being transmitted to the 
earth through the solar wind and when the solar 
flare impinges on the earth's magnetic field, there 
is a disturbance of the ionic content. Now scien- 
tists have found that when the solar flare bursts, 
and it impinges on the earth's magnetic field, 
many people die from heart attacks and many 
people will have nervous breakdowns and Max- 
well Johnson has been able to discover that a 
certain juxtaposition of Mars and Mercury coin- 
cide with solar flares. So we can mathematically 


156 


calculate that Mars and Mercury will reach the 
Juxtaposition on such and such a day. about that 
time and there are solar flares, and there are the 
heart attacks. Now, the astrological principle says 


gat wat 
They associate the Sun with the heart 
trouble. Intuitionally what the ancients may have 


perceived is being experimentally proved by some 
of these Western thinkers. 


Mr. Murthy : I lay stress on that some. I 
want many. I want many people to do it. As I told 
earlier, an experiment on a frog was conducted 
by some scientist in the [6th century. But it is 
done in our colleges even today. So experiments 
or Statistics, statistical experiments on the solar 
flare affecting the human heart must be con- 
ducted daily and continuously. 


Justice Tukol : I mean the reason why that 
is not done is all those who are astrologers are 
not of the same calibre, not are they mentally so 
equipped as to carry on the sort of experiments 
by collecting statistics. It Is only given to a few 
people who have got expert knowledge of both the 
subjects, viz., Astronomy and Astrology that can 
be expected to do justice by’collecting statistics 
and giving us the verifications of the planetary 
positions as vis-a-visthe incidents that occur. 


Dr. Raman : Now to give you some more 
statistical Information conducted by Michel Ga- 
quelin, who is the Professor of Statistics and 


{57 


Psychology at Surbonne University, what he has 
done is—he has collected hundred thousand 
horoscopes and he,finds that high frequency of 
births of doctors coincide with the position of 
Mars in the meridian, and low frequcncy of births 
of actors; similarly high frequency of births with 
the position of Jupiter in the meridian and low 
frequency of births when Jupiter is in the 
meridian—ior doctors and painters. Similarly, for 
scientists he finds high frequency of births when 
Saturn is in the meridian and for writers and ac- 
tors, he finds a low frequency births. This way he 
has done quite a bit of statistical evidence to 
show that certain juxtapositions of planets at the 
time of birth predispose one towards an aptitude 
for certain types of professions and he says we 
could use this Information to enable one to pur- 
sue his studies In the direction and derive the 
maximum of benefit. So even according to 
astrological considerations, planets in the tenth 
house are supposed to indicate profession. But in 
actual practice, many astrologers may be erring 
but. that is no reason for a reflection on Astro- 
logy. 

Justice Tukol: So from the discussion, it 
apears to me that everything need not be open to 


What is Rationalism? 

Rationalism does not, however, either begin or end 
with the mere adoption of a critical attitude to established 
beliefs in religion or philosophy. The Rationalist seeks to 
overthrow accepted beliefs only in so far as he concteves 


158 


physical verification. There are many things in 
the world which could be understood; many 
phenomena,.1 should say, which could be under- 
stood more by intuition and so far as Astrology is 
concerned, though many statistics have been col- 
lected by way of horoscopes and the verification 
of the Juxtaposition of the planets vis-a-vis the 
incidents in the individual lives and the lives of 
the country, have been made tm the foreign 
countries, in India, I think we have yet to ad- 
vance In the collection of statistics and verifica- 
tion of the consequences so as to establish that 
even those who are studying the field of Astrology 
or Astronomy and allied sciences should have op- 
pourtunity of knowing the scientific connection 
between the two. 


Dr. Raman : The cosmic-terrestrial relations 
which form the basis of Astrology may transcend 
recognised principles of Westren Science. But a 
scientific approach to the problem gives the proof 
of Astrology. What we want critics to do is to ap- 


them to stand In the way of a true constructive explanation 
of man's relation to the Universe and to his kind. He 
believes, in short, that right thinking Is the key to right 
condnet, and that, as Mr. J.M. Robertson puts It, yon can- 
not "rationalize condnct without seeking to rationalize 
creed." Rationalism—the acceptance of the reason as the 
final arbiter In all matters relating to the formation of 
opinion—tnvolves the adopUon of an essentially positive and 
affirmative, though wisely discriminative, attitude towards 
the materials of experience. Of course, the mere intention 
to be reasonable does not always succeed in its object. Al- 


159 


proach the problem scientifically not irrationally, 
basing their conclusions on subjective factors. 

Justice Tukol : Mr. Narasimha Murthy ts 
also saying that there should be scientific ap- 
proach. 

Dr. Raman : Again experimental evidence has 
been collected by many scholars interested in the 
study of Astrology and it is astonishing how 
those, who looked down upon it. have ignored all 
such evidence and stuck to their orthodox view. 
We have been able to collect a number of horo- 
scopes and study them statistically and reject 
what is not valid and retain what is valid. This 
work could profitably be done by the Universities 
with all the resources and funds they have. 


though we can all reason fairly well up to a certain point, 
most of us reach that point all too soon. Hence, increasing 
accuracy and adequacy in the use of our reasoning powers 
should be our constant alm. And if we are to achieve that 
aim In any marked degree we must voluntarily undergo cer- 
tain disciplines in supplement of those afforded by our 
present defective system of education. 


~—Thomas Paine in 
The Age of Reason' 


160 


E. Piqued Rationalist Resorts to Lies 

(Society, a Bombay-based journal, in tts Oc- 
tober 1984 issue carried a write-up on-Dr. Raman 
titled “B. V. Raman's Star- Spangled Life and 
Predicttons” It was, on the whole, a true and fab- 
assessment of Dr. Raman and his attainments. It 
also carried several correct predictions Dr.Raman 
has made in his life and appreciative references to his 
missionary crusade for Astrology. Mr. Narasimhiah, a Ban- 
galore rationalist, was so upset by this that he post-haste 
scribbled an article in the Society, November’ 
1988, making cheap gibes at Dr. Raman. He 
wrote “His International Conference of Astrology, 
utilised as a felicttation. function to himself in 
December 1983 was a flop, thanks to the  sys- 
tematic campaign, by the right thinking people, in 
Bangalore, against the fraud of Astrology. The 
conference was considered to be international 
since his son Dr. B. Sureshwara attended it com- 
ing all the way from the United States of 
America....". and many more, lies referring to 
Dr. Raman. 

I rang up the Editor Mr. Binoy Thomas from 
Bangalore and asked him if he would carry my 
rejoinder refuting Mr. Narasimhiah's blatant lies in 
his Journal. He promised to do so and_ the 
February 1985 issue carried hot only my rejoinder 
blasting the awful lies Mr. Narasimhiah had so 
shamelessly written about Dr. Raman but also 
the reproduction of a very aptly worded letter from 
Dr. Sureshwara of Illinois which showed to what 
contemptious levels this self-styled rationalist 


161 


could stoop to vent his personal animosity against 
Dr. Raman. We reproduce relevant excerpts from 
the rejoinder below, Courtesy, Society. We place 
on record our thanks to Mr. Binoy Thomas for 
presenting both sides of the issue to hts readers, 
thereby showing a high sense of fairness and im- 
partiality. Editor) 


THE NEW RAMAN EFFECT 

Dr. Narasirnhiah's rejoinder (Society, Novem- 
ber 1984) made familiar but painful reading. 
That he is entitled to his opinions on Astrology or 
any other science under the sun none can dis- 
pute. But what is in extremely bad taste is his 
distortion of certain facts and the presentation of 
even blatant lies in relation to Dr. B.V. Raman. 


Referring to the International Convention on 
Astrology, he describes it as a flop, because to 
use his own words "thanks to the systematic 
campaign by the right thinking people in Ban- 
galore against the fraud of Astrology". 1 was 
present throughout the two-day delibe ations and 
I can give an eyewitness account of the nuisance 
these followers of Dr. Narasimhiah made of them- 
selves at the portals of the Banquet Hall of the 
Vidhana Soudha where the Convention took 
place. Just before the deliberations began a noisy 
group of about 5 or 6 persons started shouting 
anti-Astrology slogans. One would have thought 
they were hooligans and rowdies (Judging by their 
dress and demeanour) of the kind one usually en- 
counters in theatres peddling tickets in black. 
The police however hounded out the group In a 


162 


matter of minutes. So much for Dr.Narasimhiah's 
campaign and right thinking people at the Con- 
vention! 


The second fact he deliberately misrepresents 
is, he says the Convention was considered Inter- 
national because Dr.Raman‘s_son Dr.Sureshwara 
"attended it coming all the way from the United 
States of America". I wonder where he gets his 
ideas from. Dr.Sureshwara did not attend the 
conference. But there were as many as 100 over- 
seas delegates from England, Sweden, Germany, 
Canada, the U.S.A.. Malaysia. Sri Lanka, Sin- 
gapore and Bangladesh who participated in the 
Convention to make it a grand international meet 
of astrological savants. Besides delegates from all 
over India also took part in it. 


The people of Bangalore led by the Committee 
for the Felicitation of Dr.B.V. Raman headed by 
Justice AR. Somnath Iyer {former Chief Justice 
of Karnataka) and comprising of such distin- 
guished gentlemen as Justice Nittoor Srinlvasa 
Rao. Govind Narain. Veerendra Patil, Ramnath 
Goenka, Dr.M. Chenna Reddy, Dr.V.K.R.V. Rao 
and other luminaries had decided to honour their 
distinguished fellow citizen Dr.B.V. Raman. The 
International Convention was held as an adjunct 
to the Felicitation function? To {impute the mo- 
tives of fraud to these intellectual and public per- 
sonalities is an insult to the entire people of Kar- 
nataka. 


163 


A LETTER FROM RAMAN'S SON 


This has reference to the article 
"Narasimhiah, Bangalore's Miracle-buster Chal- 
lenges B.V.Raman" in November 1984 issue of 
SOCIETY. 

Dr. Narasimhiah should verify facts before he 
writes or says anything. The International Con- 
ference on Astrology at Bangalore was attended 
by delegates from both within and outside India. 
I, son of Dr.B.V.Raman, did not attend the con- 
ference. Therefore, Dr.Narasimhaiah is wrong 
when he writes that I attended the Conference. I 
question his credibility and Judgment on many of 
the things he has written, especially when he 
cannot verify a simple fact like my not attending 
the Conference. Those who stretch truth to dis- 
credit a branch of learning, an individual, or a 
group are Just hypocrites and nothing else. 


' There is nothing new in what Dr.Narasim- 
hiah has said in the arttcle. Today it is 
fashionable for some to identify himself or herself 
as a 'rationalist'. Many of these ‘rational’ per- 
sons appear to have made thetr main goal in life 
to continually degrade anything pertaining to In- 
dian Culture. Hinduism and Hindus. It is because 
the Hindus are tolerant, that many of the so- 
called '‘rationalists' are able to make stupid and 
irresponsible statements. 


164 


Their ‘rationalism' quickly evaporates when it 
comes to non-Hindu religions and cultures. It is 
simple because the other religious groups and 
cultures would not tolerate any direct or indirect 
insults or attacks on their group or beliefs. If 
these so-called _'rationalists' truly believe — in 
universal.applications of their beliefs, I would 
like to' see *them express their ‘rationalist! views 
on the beliefs of not only Hindus, but also others. 
Otherwise, the conclusion is, they lack courage of 
conviction, and sincerity in whatever they say or 
write, 


Dr.Narasimhaiah is a_ talented and educated 
individual. He should direct his talent and energy 
not at publicity generating efforts such as 
‘challenging! the faiths, and beliefs of millions of 
Hindus, but at action-oriented service in the suf- 
fering poorer and weaker sections of society. We 
have seen enough of lip service and words by 
politicians and others. Dr.Narasimhaiah with his 
educational background can _ effectively _ initiate 
educational and other programmes to assist the 
deserving poor. Of course, that needs a lot of ef- 
fort, and it will not generate the same publicity 
as the gimmick of ‘challenge’. 


In any case, the public will understand 
sooner or later that the main objective of many of 
the 'rationalists' is simply to get free and cheap 
publicity. And by making every issue sensational 
they double their ‘popularity’ and ‘public appeal. 


165 


It appears tt does not matter to them whether 
they hurt the feelings and faith of a vast number 
of people, and all they care is generation of con- 
tinuing publicity for themselves. 


Yours sincerely, 
(Sd.) 
B. SURESHWARA 


Reference to Mr. A.N. Banerjee’s and Mr. SR. 
Bommai's speeches have also undergone mali- 
cious twists. While Governor Banerjee described 
Astrology as a statistical science and not exact, 
Mr.S.R. Bommai called on the astrologers to word 
their predictions in cautious language. Statesman 
and politician respectively, they are not expected 
to be as thoroughly science- knowing as men 
from specific areas of science are. I think it 
would be appropriate at this stage to point out to 
Dr.Narasimhiah, that with the discovery of 
Heisenberg's Principle of Uncertainty and the sur- 
facing of quantum physics, the very concept of 
the exact sciences has received a death blow. It is 
true Dr.Narasimhiah received a doctorate for his 
thesis some three decades ago, but it is unfor- 
tunate he has not kept pace with the latest 
developments of science. Several theories prevail- 
ing ihen have been set aside and clinging to 
these outdaled theories can do more harm than 
good to the cultivation of his scientific temper. 


A Convention attended by three to four 
hundred delegates and nearly 2000 citizens 


166 


drawn from all walks of life cannot be called a 
flop. 

One of the more serious charges 
Dr. Narasimhiah makes against Dr. Raman is 
that his challenge to the latter to predict events 
has not been accepted. Dr. Narasimhiah sounds 
like a garrishly painted matinee hero who throws 
out ‘challenges’ left and right from his pedestal 
on the silver screen. This would be the rating his 
challenges deserve. However, coming to the facts 
themselves, there has been no challenge to 
Dr. Raman from Dr. Narasimhiah. Even otherwise 
for the sake of argument. how can he arrogate to 
himself the task of a judge of an individual's 
competence or the validity of a science. Surely, it 
would be the height of absurdity to claim such 
omniscience. No one in his senses would care a 
hoot for challenges of this kind. On the contrary, 
a few years ago when Swami Krishnateertha, 
Secretary of the Karnataka Jyotisha Parishad in- 
vited Dr. Narasimhiah to a public debate on 
Astrology, the latter backed out at the last 
minute. Dare he ‘challenge’ a specialist in cancer 
to cure a particular case of cancer? Dare he chal- 
lenge specialists in other fields of knowledge? 


While claiming to not blowing his own trum- 
pet, Dr.Narasimhiah unabashedly reels out dis- 
tinctions that have supposedly descended on him 
of their own accord. Belonging to a minority 
group in a country of caste-politics has its own 
distinct advantages ! 


167 


1 shall give just two instances where I had an 
opportunity to watch his ‘scientific temper’ at 
work.¢ 

One was at the Seminar on ‘Science and 
Superstition’ organised by the Youth Writers and 
Artists Guild in mid 1977 at the Institution of 
Engineers at Bangalore, under the Chairmanship 


of Dr.V.K.R.V.Rao. Dr.Raman, Swami 
Adldevananda and Dr.Narasimhiah and a_ few 
others were the speakers. Angered by 


Dr.Narasimhiah’s charge against Astrology that 
no one had forecast the Emergency, I walked up 
to him with a copy of the forecast of the event 
made 10 months in advance in THE ASTROLOGI- 
CAL MAGAZINE. This man claiming to be a 
rationalist just scampered away hastily refusing 
even to look at it, let alone peruse it. 


His favourite quote from Swami Vivekananda 
[Society, November 1.984, page 59) is pulied out 
of context. The Swami had the highest regard for 
the ancient science of Astrology. (Complete Works 
of Swami Vivekananda,Vol. IV, pages 372-373). 
“In America there is the best scope for caste (real 
Jaat) to develop, and so the people are great. 
Every Hindu knows that astrologers try to fix the 
caste of every boy or girl as soon as he or she is 
born. That is the real caste — the individuality 
and Jyotisha (astrology) recognises that, and we 
can only rise by giving it full sway again", the 
Swami says. Men who quote Vlvekananda to tar- 
nish Astrology should remember this!... 


168 


“The history of science is fraught with cases 
of orthodox scientists rejecting the theories and 
findings of contemporary scientists which did not 
fit tn with the theories prevailing then. Coper- 
nicus, Galileo, Michelson, Morley were all looked 
down upon because they took a stance that did 
not respect the reason of contemporary scientists. 
When will orthodox scientists learn they have 
never been and never will be champions of truth? 
As Whitehead in Science and the Modern World 
puts ‘Science has never shaken off its origins in 
the historical revolt of the later renaissance. It 
has remained a predominantly antirationalistic 
movement based on a naive faith... | Of course, 
the historical revolt was justified... it was a,sen- 
sible reaction, but it was not a protest on behalf 
of reason." 

Dr. Narasimhaiah is no rationalist or scien- 
tist. A highly prejudiced don, he is making use of 
his official position to brainwash young minds 
with his personal biases and prejudices. Like all 
self proclaimed reformers in our country, he will 
question Hindu beliefs and Hindu saints and 
never non-Hindu beliefs and practices. What 
about the faith-healing at the Dargahs and the 
healing sessions of the Hendersons? He dare not, 


Their communities will not tolerate him like we 
do. 


Lastly, a word on his attack of the predic- 
tions made by Dr. Raman. These predictions are 
based on planetary movements and their corvrela- 
tions to human activity. It is to the credit of Dr. 


169 


Raman that he does not make categorical 
forecasts. No man of intellectual stature will do 
it. A parallel will illustrate the point. A cancer 
specialist with all the equipment at his command 
and the patient. fully reposing his faith in him 
will still not promise categorically, a cure. All he 
will say is, "I shall do my best. The rest is in 
God's hands". That Is the reason why Dr. Raman 
uses the words ‘may and possibly' and not ‘will 
and ‘shall’. Only politicians and dons backed by 
them spill promises with a liberal usage of these 
words. Not true scientists who know both the 
scope and limitations of human skills and 
knowledge. 


(Courtesy: Society February 1985) 


INDIA AND WESTERN SCIENCE 


"From its modern awakening with Sri Ramakrishna 
and Swami Vivckananda, Eastern mysticism has begun to 
adapt its revelations to the entirely different cultural 
framework provided by science and technology, without in 
any way sacrificing what is valid in its traditional under- 
standing of the phenomemon itself. " (The Eye of Shiva: 
Eastern Mysticism and Science p. 120) 


—Amaury De Reincourt 


170 


F. Some More Hypocrisy 


i) The Space Tamashas 

In 1979. India's first booster-rocket SLV-3. 
launched on 10-8-1979 with much fanfare came 
plummeting down into the Bay of Bengal within 5 
minutes of take-off (10-8-1979 at 7.55 a.m. IST. 
at Sriharikota). 


You Said It 


by Laxman | 


MR. CITIZEN 


By RAMAMURTHY 


P : Bae ‘Don't feel so bad, professor? 

The only thing that is soaring intO There is a vast improvement over 

space with a steady reiocity is the the jast attempt. This one fell 300 
Indian price-line! metres Farther. 


Courtesy : Deccan Herald dated Courtesy : twes OF NOW dated 
15/7/1988 16/7/88 


171 


This scientific failure costing crores of hard- 
earned money only proved a simple astrological 
truth in electional Astrology. 

Malefics Saturn and Rahu are in Lagna, a 
deadly thing to have.The Moon in the 8th is never 
advocated in Muhurta as leading to premature 
death or termination (For details. refer Planets 
and Our Space- Programme supra) 

On 24-3-1987, again from the‘ same site. 
SROSS-1 was launched to watch which the Prime 
Minister of the country and a whole lot of other 
big-wigs had gathered. 


The weekday was Tuesday and for the time of 
launching (12-10-noon) Gemini rising had the 
Moon in the 8th. Tuesday is fateful astrologically 
for any new venture. The launch met with a 
premature and watery grave and at a whooping 
cost of 28 crore rupees when it came plunging 
into the sea within a bare 164 seconds of take- 
off. Any student of Astrology would have thrown 
up his arms in protest at the choice of the time 
and date of these launchings. 


And for this the space-scientist concerned 
was given a_ special award. This _ simple 
demonstration of Astrology is proof against all 
criticism. It. even to the chagrin of the scientist, 
proves the truth of the Yogas in his own chart 
which fetched him laurels for a dismal perfor- 
mance. 


172 


LAB BLAB Mohan Sivanand 


"Thanks to satellite technology, Dourdarskan now shows us a new 
picture every day’-the Inset IB picture". 


Courtesy : Indian Express, Science Supplement dated 23-8-88 - 


H 


173 


ii) Weathermen Caught Napping 

The deluge of July 9. 1987 at Mancherial 
predictably caught our Meteorology Department 
unawares. Two bogies of the Hyderabad- 
NizamuddIn Delhi (Dakshin) Express were 
washed away in flash floods on this fateful night 
about 245 kilometres from Hyderabad when the 
train was Just about to cross the rail bridge 
across the Gangaregedl rivulet. About 53 people 
were killed according to official sources. 


It was a flash alright, for us laymen. But we 
are not most certainly going to accept this ex- 
planation: from the Meteorology Department. 
Pampered and fed at great expense to the exche- 
quer what weire these weather prophets doing? 


2 Ue hues 
meet pda Ae 


Courtesy : Indian Express Science Supplement 
dated 22.3.1988 


174 


With all the resources they have at their com- 
mand, the highly expensive and_ sophisticated 
weather gadgets and the countless men working 
for them, what were these men upto? Aren't they 
paid to warn of weather vagaries of the mag- 
nitude and nature of the Mancherial deluge in 
which so many lives were lost? 

Just look at the forecast appearing on page 
15, THE HINDU, dated July 8, 1987. The forecast is 
said to be "valid until the morning of July 9". 
That means it Includes the pre-dawn 2 hour- 
period on July 9 when the flash-flood came 
like a bolt from the blue. The meteorological 
forecast said “Rain or thundershowers will be 
fairly widespread over coastal Karnataka, 
Teiangana, scattered over interior Karnataka. 
Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Lakshadweep and tso- 
lated oyer Rayalaseema, Tamil Nadu and Pon- 
dicherry." 


The train having travelled 245 kms from 
Hyderabad towards Delhi was+far from anywhere 
near the coast. That means the weather predicted 
for the region was" rain or thundershowers". Not 
even thunderstorms but look what happened! It 
certainly needed cheek to make this kind of 
prediction! 

A sudden deluge which kills more than 50 
people and which washes off the track itself from 
under the train is not even remotely anticipated. 
The Department owes an explanation on its fatal- 
ly poor performance. This is just one amongst 
numerous instances when the weathermen fool 


175 


the people with their totally unreliable forecasts 
leading to catastrophic and disastrous conse- 
quences. This, based on “scientific” knowledge 
and methods! Scientists who have such a high 
opinion of their scientific knowledge and methods 
and who do not accept the limitations of science 
should ponder over their failures and descend 
from their ivory towers and humbly approach 
Astrology. 

Not a word of criticism from the "rationalists" 
who shout themselves hoarse over astrologers. 
Most rationalists are biased, rather ill-informed 
with inflated egos and a strong conditioned 
sense of righteous indignation which, when 
roused, fumes and frets and make them run 
amok. 


What is important is what is going on in the 
Meteorology Department if it cannot play any ef- 
fective role in deciphering weather changes. No 
answers will come because that is how it is today 


Flunky Forecasts from the Weatherman. 

. IN ABSOLUTE defiance of INSAT pictures and charts at 
the Meteorological Department, the City's winter sky has 
held true. But take a look at the forecasts datly over the 
last three days. “Generally cloudy with spells of rain" on 
Thursday, “partly cloudy" on Friday and "mainly cloudy" for 
Saturday while the sky stayed gleefully blue. It seems we 
are in luck. Whoever said that weather was predictable 
anyway? 


—Indian Express (20.12.1987) 


176 


in our country when uncomfortable questions are 
asked. 

Science is meant not to glority personal egos; 
science is meant to unravel the secrets of Nature 
and to use this knowledge to help mankind. But 
what many of the scientists are doing now is the 
exact antithesis of the fundamental purpose of 
science. 

(Reproduced from THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 


January 1988) 


ii1) Another Instance of Hypocrisy 


A lot of nonsense on Astrology has gone into 
a book Science, Non-Science and Paranormal 
produced by a local "rationalist" assisted by a 
mathematics teacher in a local college. 

Parts of the book carry flashes of sense. For 
instance, the "rationalist" who has also edited the 
volume, quotes a scientist saying science is iden- 
tified by its methods and not by its attainments. 
Immediately, he contradicts this statement by 
quoting out of context half-a-dozen predictions 
saying these went wrong and Astrology is there- 
fore, not science. But unfortunately, scores of 
predictions which have proved correct have been 
just wished away perhaps to impress his personal 
prejudices on the readers. A genuine science- 
man, on the other hand, would have taken note 
of the overwhelming number of correct preditc- 
tions and gone on to study why these predictions 
came right and how. The "rationalist" only made 
a fool of himself by this gimmick * 


177 


NEWSLETTER JUNE 1988 11 


COMPUTER HOROSCOPE 
Computer Horoscope in the South Indian/North Indian style cast in 5-pages 
computer printout giving the following details :— 


{i) Scientifically computed accurate positions of the Sun, the Moon. Lagne 
(Ascendant) end ell the plenets including Uranus, Neptune and Pluto 
(ii) Nakshatra end Paede, Janma Tithi. Rashi, Yoga and Kerana 
(iii) Balance of Dasha at birth according to the Vimshottari sytem 
(iv) Rashi kundali and Navamsha Kundeli in South/North Indian style 
(v) Arambha. Madhya and Antya of ell the 12 Bhaves, and 
(vl) Bhava Kundali. 
Send detalis of date, time and place of birth Fees Rs. 30/- 
For trade enquiries for the Horoscope Software Package on SPECTRUN Home 
Computer or to act as collection centres contract :— 
Or. Shirali Balachand:a Rao. M.Sc , Ph.D. 
2388. Jnana Deep. Subramanyanagar Main Road 
Rajajinagar, 2nd Stage. Bangelore-560 010. 


Courtesy : Canara Union Newsletter dated June 1988 


Now on to his man, Friday, Mr. Balachandra 
Rao. This man prepares horoscopes for a fee on 
the sly while decrying it before the rationalist for 
either fear or favour, we do not know. Given 
above Is a copy of Mr. Rao's advertisement for his 
horoscopic-wares which expose to what levels one 
can descend in the name of ‘scientific temper’: 
This advertisement appears periodically in The 
Canara Union Newsletter, Malleswaram, Ban- 
galore. 

For every single wrong prediction, dozens of 
space and science disasters can be shown. 
Astrologers are human and failures are there 


178 


sometimes. But in fact the significant number of 
correct astrological predictions indicate prob- 
abilities far in excess of what can be achieved by 
random chance. 


A fool who thinks that he is a fool is to that extent a 
wise man: but a fool who thinks of himself as wise Is indeed 
a fool. 


The fool desires undue reputation, precedence among 
monks, authority over dwellings,and honour among the 
families. 


"Let both laymen and monks think that this was done 
by me. im every work, great and small, let them follow me" - 
such is the aspiration of the fool; (thus) his desire and pride 


increase. 
* 


Through all his life, a fool associates with a wise man, 
he still remains ignorant of the truth as the spoon, the 
flavour of the soup. 


—Dhammapada 


179 


CHAPTER SIX 


THE KOVOOR STORY-THE 
DENOUEMENT 


Y. Keshava Menon 


Columnist Leon has been, from the time 
Kovoor started stalking this land from across the 
Strait throwing challenges right and left, pointing 
his index finger unerringly at the patently irra- 
tional terms with which he was hedging the con- 
test. As far as we know only one person is so far 
reported to have fallen victim to his wile and lost 
a cash deposit of Rs. 1000. No astrologer seems to 
have been Involved. 


Kovoor has now met a diamond of a man he 
could not cut. This is set out in some detail in a 
rare signed editorial in the prestigious Malayalam 
Weekly, Malaysia Nadu, which had over a period 
of time, featured Kovoor and his work sym- 
pathetically. The rare editorial, in the Issue of the 
Journal of the 16th January 1977, was prompted 
by the Editor's total disillusionment with the 
Kovoor religion. 

It so happened that a popular literateur 
based in Bombay. Sri M.P. Narayana Pillay was 
prepared to take up Kovoor on his challenge. Sri 
Pillay would demonstrate through an eminent 
Yogi at any appointed place of Kovoor'’s choice the 
miracle of man walking on water. Kovoor 
nominated Quilon (Kollam) for the demonstration 


180 


and demanded the cash deposit. Sri Pillay sent 
in the cash to Sri SR. Nair, the Editor of 
Malayala Nadu, a known admirer of Kovoor with 
a request that he act as the moderator for the 
contest after ensuring that Kovoor's lakh of 
rupees was readily available and nominate the 
time, date and venue for the performance of the 
miracle. 

When told of Sri Pillay's final acceptance of 
the contest, Sri Nair was invited to meet Kovoor 
at the Government House, Quilon. Present at the 
meeting were, besides Kovoor and Sri Nair, Com- 
rade M.N. Govindan Nair, the Communist leader 
who is also a Cabinet Minister in the Government 
of Kerala, political leaders Anandan. Mohan and 
K. Karunakaran (Editor of the Daily Janayugam), 
Thoppil Bhasi, the matinee idol, choreographer, 
dramatist, playwright, producer and director, Sri 
Panicker and a few of the followers of Kovoor's 
Rationalist Philosophy. Incidentally. Thoppil 
Bhasi is reputed to be the man behind the film 
Punarjanmam (Rebirth) which featured Kovoor 
live. 

When Sri. S.K.Nair stated Sri.Pillay's case 
Kavoor reared up “On just one man's say-so, why 
should 1 sell off my valuable properties in Ceylon 
to stake the lakh of rupees in cash?" Kovoor said 
that his word that within 15 days of his losing 
the contest, should such a contingency arise, he 
would bring a lakh of rupees from Ceylon should 
be accepted. This statement, charged with un- 
necessary vehemence, stuck at the throat of 
those present. 


181 


Minister Govindan Nair intervened to say that 
bringing a lakh of rupees from Ceylon on an er- 
rand of this nature was an improbability. He 
cited the instance of a neighbour whose sole 
earning member in Ceylon was not permitted to 
remit paltry sums for the maintenance of his 
aged parents in India. On Kovoor contesting this 
statement, the Reserve Bank authorities at Er- 
nakulam were promptly contacted on_ the 
telephone. It was then established that transfer of 
such a sum of money from Ceylon, for the 
avowed purpose was a total impossibility. 

On Sri Pillay being told over the telephone 
that a stalemate had arisen on terms of the con- 
test, Sri Pillay pointed out to those assembled 
that he had already put down Rs. 1000 In cash 
as demanded of him and he would be further in- 
curring expenses of a few more thousands in 


Are Astrologers Charlatans? 


Sir,- Following Dr. Kovoor's line of reasoning (16th 
Oct) 1 think that cardiology too Is humbug. Let Dr Kovoor 
produce a single cardiologist who on seeing an electro-car- 
diogram (ECG) can tell within 5 percent error the sex and 
age of the patientl 


The fallacy In Dr. Kovoor's "test" lies in his absolute 
ignorance of science. Just as an ECG is an indicator of the 
patient's heart and circulatory system so the horoscope is 
the indicator of a person's destiny. Just as a cardiologist 
can make a wrong diagnosis, so too an Astrologer can make 
a wrong diagnosis (prediction). After all he is a human 


182 


bringing the yogi and his attendants over and es- 
corting them back. 

To this, Kovoor petulantly retorted, “If Sri 
Pillay’s Yogi is a miracle performer why should he 
not produce the lakh of rupees for him from thin 
air rather than take all the’pains to come over 
and take a risk?" With this he stalked out of the 
place followed by his adherents. 

The editorial concludes "I am now in a quan 
dary and led to believe that you do not have a 
lakh of ‘rupees in the first place. Please do not 
churn our mind, thoughts and soul any more and 
create ulcers for which there might not be any 
remedy even in rationalism. I published your ar- 
ticles and statements hitherto accepting your 
genuineness prima facie. Please do not put 
human faith on trial any more." 


Confirming the fact delineated in the editorial 
is an independent report by Thoppil Bhasl and a 
statement of Sri Narayana Pillay himself. 


being and as prone to fallibility as any other engineer, 
physician, surgeon or Dr. Kovoort 


Coming specifically to Dr. Kovoor's charge against 
Dr B.V. Raman, this is a clear example of hypocrisy. He 
has cleverly selected the one year in which Dr. Raman 
failed and ignored 37 years of accurate (published) 
record of predictions (bold ours) 


To quote just one astonishing prediction: In the period 
October 1972 to December 1972. Dr. Raman tn his forecast 
‘IN THE USA' published in The Astrological Magazine of 
the same period said *as Saturn enters Aridra constellation, 
in May 1974, Nixon will be forced to resign". This predic- 


183 


In the meantime, came the blast from no less 
a person than Acharya Rajneesh. This was the 
real coup d'etat for the Doctor which only 
Acharyas may divine. 

“Why does Kovoor,” asks the Acharya in the 
course of an interview with the Current, the 
popular Bombay Weekly, “spend his last days on 
negativism?" 

To the saint. It is simple logic. "You say that 
there is no God. That can only be a matter of 
faith, for you cannot prove it. You accuse the 
other fellow of being irrational because he says 
that there Is God. Your rationality is thus on a 
par with the other fellow's." (The words are mine 
to simplify the whole process of thought of the 
Acharya). 

The Acharya deplores that an aged man of 
over 80 as Kovoor claims he Is should engage 


tion came Just before and after Nixon had won the U.S. 
Presidential election with the largest majority in American 
history and a clear 20 months before he actually resigned 
as predicted. Name ONE newspaper or magazine Dr. 
Kovoor, which has politically or otherwise anywhere in the 
world made such a prediction! There are hundreds of other 
accurate predictions but for reasons of space I give only a 
few: the assassination of Shaikh Mujibur Rehman and King 
Faisal of Saudi Arabia as well as the attempts on the life of 
President Ford were accurately predicted. 


Besides every issue of The Astrological Magazine car- 
ries the legend- “Those who know Astrology can only indi- 
cate in a way what will take place in future, who else except 
the Creator can say with certainty what will definitely hap- 


184 


himself in this negative process of denials in his 
last days. ' 

Kovoors do more for Astrology than Is com- 
monly imagined. By his several challenges going 
totally unnoticed by astrologers led by 
Dr.B.V.Raman who sat back like a sage receiving 
the darts as flower offerings. Kovoor is today a 
sad man—a little wiser let us hope. 


Reproduced from THE ASTROLOGICAL 
MAGAZINE, April 1977. 


pen?" Ifa man is a charlatan and out to fool people why 
should such a legend be published in every issue at all? No, 
Dr.Kovoor you can only fool some of the people, sdine of the 
time, but you can't fool all people all the timel 


Bombay. — VR. PRABHU 


Courtesy: Free Press Journal, dated 22-10-1976 


185 


CHAPTER SEVEN 


HOW | WAS GREETED BY 
‘SCIENCE’ : STRICT SCEPTICISM 


Michel Gauquelin 


In science, the important thing is not only to 
discover phenomenon, but above all to repeat it a 
sufficient number of times for it to be properly 
established. When I published my first statistical 
results in 1955, revealing a new relationship be- 
tween man and certain planets, I had of course 
already made sure of the phenomenon by various 
experiments in France. But all I had done was to 
discover them. This is why this work, which 
presents the extension of my research from 
France to four other countries of Europe, takes 
on the value of a confirmation. 


A link between man and the planets...When 
we envisage such a relationship, we automatically 


In his latest book “Written in the Stars” Michel 
Gauguelln's studies establish the link between man and 
planets. Thirty years have passed since he first began his 
experiments to disprove Astrology but now he has ended up 
accumulating invaluable data proving the correlation be- 
tween astrological data and human life. This volume pub- 
lished in 1988 is an impartial but amazing record of the 
study conducted by Gauquelin which proves the validity of 
the basic tenet of Astrology— of the link between man and 
planets. These findings are based on a collection of more 
than 100,000 cases and 30 years painstaking, scientific en- 
deavur. 


186 


think of Astrology. And such positive and nega- 
tive passion Is attached to that word in the eyes 
of those who are stirred up by the question, that 
they can no longer make any objective judgement 
of the scientific facts presented to them. This is 
why this work is also valuable as a response to 
all those who only wanted to see in my work a 
‘fortunate’ stroke of luck, which was a priori un- 
worthy of being examined. 


Scepticism, which is the ‘done thing’ in ad- 
versaries of Astrology, is nine times out of ten 
based on an exaggeratedly scientistic concept of 
the relationships between man and nature. In- 
deed, Mr.Dauvillier, for example, a professor of 


The complete data used by Gauquelin is said to be 
available on magnetic tape and can be checked by anyone 
against the source data in the public domain and on the 
original birth- certificates accessible at Gauquelin’s 
laboratory in Paris according to the postscript to the book 
by Geoffrey Dean. 


In fact, there {s no doubt whatsoever about the validity 
of Gauquelln's methodology, as three members of the 
CSICOP (Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims 
of the Paranormal which publishes theSkepticallaquirer] to 
which local rationalists make frequent references in their 
attacks on Astrology, Professors Abell, Paul Kurtz and Zelen 
have finally acknowledged {n 1983. in an article that “ Gau- 
quelin adequately allowed for demographic and astronomical 
factors {In predicting the expected distribution of Mars sec- 
tors for birth times in the general population ". (Ref.The 
Abell-Kurtz- Zelen'Mars Effect’ Experiments: A Reappraisal! 
The Skeptical Enquirer. 1983. pages 77-82. ) 


187 


cosmic physics at the College de France, wrote to 
me. in a letter which in other respects was most 
polite’. What immoderate human vanity it is to 
believe that the destiny of a mammal born on a 
little planet could be linked to the course of the 
celestial bodies: Just put the sun, the earth, and 
the human race and life into their places in the 
galaxy, and you will see how futile these beliefs 
are... '. Every word is saturated with a kind of 
primary materialism. Look again: 'the vanity of 
this mammal born on this little planet...’ What 
has vanity got to do with anything here? There 
are facts and there are experiments. We have to 
examine them, that is all. 


In. any case, it does too much credit to the 
consequences of my results to think, with horror 
or delight, that there is any risk of them over- 
turning everything that is currently known. It is 
too much to believe that they might, if recognized 
to be correct, modify the thought processes of a 
scientist worthy of the name. In the case of scep- 
tics, this excessive credit (or indignity) which they 
heap on me comes from their habits of thought, 
which prevent them from reasoning about any- 
thing other than what they already know about 
the laws of the universe. They confuse an un- 
resolved problem with a ‘false problem and flee 
from it. giving their current knowledge as an ex- 
cuse. Here its Mr. Dauvillier's testimony once 
again: If such influences existed, they would not 


* All the quotations which follow are taken from letters 
I received and have preserved in my files. 


188 


act on the arrangement of chromosomes at the 
moment of birth, but at conception. Now, the 
laws of genetics show us that these associations 
are chance ones'. Nevertheless, this scientist is 
presented with numerous easily verifiable statis- 
tics showing the Importance of the moment of 
birth... That they should appear to him to be in- 
credible, or even absurd, I can easily accept. But 
one should at least assess the results before af- 
firming the opposite! 

There is more to come: Sylvain Arend.an 
astronomer at the Brussels observatory. asserts 
by way of sole scientific criticism: 'Professional 
astronomers have studied the problem a 
priori{!]|As far as they are concerned, the planets 
are celestial bodies which have cooled down and 
which in essense merely reflect the radiation 
which they receive'.He adds: ‘Moreover, it can be 
seen II] that human destiny depends on human 
and not astral factors*. 


The thought process is always the same: 
peremptory apriority (which is admirable in a 
scientist), negative proof on the basis of known 
‘radiations'and complete refusal to study the 
question. The most astonishing thing is still to 
come. All these gentlemen, for whom there is 
nothing left to discover about ‘radiation’, have 
been working together for several years on a com- 
mittee with the publicly recognized aim of exam- 
ing evidence such as mine! 

From the pen of Paul Couderc, an 
astronomer at the Paris Observatory. we read: 


[89 


‘For a long time, a permanent scientific commis- 
sion, founded by the American Association of 
Scientific Societies, has undertaken to study the 
laws put before it: it 1s prepared to examine any 
propositions concerning the influence of planets 
on individuals': and further on : ‘A Belgian com- 
mittee for" investing phenomena held to be 
paranormal. made up of thirty scientists from all 
disciplines,* was formed in 1948 to study precise 
programmes of simple, controllable experiments. 
And Courdec concludes : 'I am at the disposal of 
anyone to pass on to the Belgian committee any 
precise statement of laws, since these experi- 
ments deserve to be examined by scientists—they 
have been in the past and will continue to be.” t 


. 


I hastened, of course to forward my work to 
these two committees, and to Couderc himself. [ 
expected that my results would surely be ex- 
amined by these men of science. Did not my work 
contain first and foremost an experimental criti- 
que of Astrology which no one had ever before 
really undertaken? With these men of science, | 
hoped to set up a discussion not of the practical 
aspect of horoscopes, since I was backing up 
their argument on this point, but at the strictly 


* Compromising, amongst others, S. Arend (see above), 
M. Boll (see below) and P. Couderc himself. 


t Paul Courdec, L’Astrologie, P.U.F..1951, pp.76 and 77 


190 


scientific, experimental and verifiable level of my 
experiments. 
I am still waiting... 


After'some time, having received no reply. I 
ventured to enquire about the progress of the 
matter. 1 was berated with accusations of self- 
importance. ‘What! replied Marcel Boll, ‘do you 
really think that the scientists would stop all 
work and amuse themselves for ten days going 
over your work with a fine tooth comb? ... this is 
self-justification manta!’ 


Are the scientists on these committees really 
so overburdened with work? Not according to 
Paul Courdec who—contradiction of contradic- 
tions!—made this disillusioned remark : 'Unfor- 
tunately these scientific commissions do not have 
enough work'. Yet he himself never even acknow- 
ledged my repeated requests for examination. I 
was told he had better things to do. Be that as it 
may, it is clear that this astronomer 4s perfectly 
willing to spend time writing a whole book on the 
blunders of astrologers, but not to look Into ‘a 
programme of simple, verifiable laws' that he 
himself called for. 


It is very easy to draw a conclusion from all 
this: the adversaries of Astrology love to criticize 
it, but they have no intention whatsoever of 
broadening the debate tn order to check the facts 
set before them. Their committees of ‘scientific 
investigation’ do not aim to serve science, but 
only to spread amongst public opinion the decep- 
tive appearance of science. 


191 


But deploring the indifference and scepticism 
of certain scientists would be a sterile, and hence 
unscientific, attitude. In order to claim the right 
to be examined and read, you have to set every- 
thing in motion. To find the necessary credence, 
you have first and foremost to pursue research in 
order to obtain more and more convincing sets of 
proof. 


This is why 1 had to increase the amount of 
birth data studied, and repeat the experiments 
over and over again, broadening the scope of my 
research to several countries. After all, perhaps 
the quantity of my data was not yet sufficient. 
And you could ask what would happen to all this 
fine reasoning if fresh observations destroyed the 
first ones. 


My contradictors had not waited for the 
results of these experiments to come, but had 
replied in advance: ‘If the statistics show a 
semblance of correlation.’ Dauvillier wrote to me, 
'this can only be a fluctuation showing that the 
data are not sufficiently numerous.’ As for Marcel 
Boll, he prophesied: ‘Your conclusions are noth- 
ing more than a serialized novel, the worst kind 
of justification, and this solution is hopeless, 
since if you repeated the same investigation in 
Great Britain, Germany, the U.S.A. or the USSR, 
you would wriggle out of it with ease (faced with 
different results). by citing national 
idiosyncrasies.'* 

That was a challenge that I Just had to take 
up. The results of fresh research that I am 


192 


publishing now are a direct response to Messrs 
Dauvillier and Boll: they fully confirm, and ex- 
tend to a European scale, the French results 
published in 1955. 


Courtesy: “Written in the Stars”by 
Michel Gauquelin 


¢ Note of 1987 : Some 30 years ago, Marcel Boll was a 
well-known scientific writer In France, ranking with Martin 
Gardner In the USA, for example. 


193 


CHAPTER EIGHT 
PLANETS AND PERSONALITY* 


Michel Gauquelin 


Planetary Heredity 

i maintain that the child's temperament is re- 
lated to the position of the planets at the time of 
his birth. But relationship does not necessarily 
mean direct and almost instantaneous influence. 
When he comes into the world, the child is fully 
formed, with all the potentialities inherited from 
his parents. It is difficult to accept the idea that 
the heavenly bodies could act on_ the 
chromosomal structure of the child's cells, could 


disrupt and redistribute them, to the point of 


' Gauquclin began his studies with 576 cases of doctors 
who were members of the Academic De Medecine. He then 
look up 508 cases of notable doctors. He found Mars occupied 
a prominent position in their charts. He extended his inves- 
tigations to 570 well-known sportsmen, then to 494 members 
of the Chamber of Deputies and stage by stage covered 
painters and and scientists in his study. He found Jupiter 
dominant in the charts of actors, lawyers, judges, Mars sig- 
nificantly placed in the charts of the sportsmen, military men 
and doctors. Saturn was strong in those of priests and scien- 
tists. However, at this stage Gauquelln's studies were confined 
only to France. 


Well-known mathematicians and statisticians who ex- 
amined the results of these studies were impressed but said 
if the findings could be replicated in data from other 
countries, Gauquelln's fingings would be really significant. 


194 


modifying his character. At the conception. per- 
haps, the heavenly bodies might (who knows) 
have affected the chromosomal lottery. But after 
the encounter between the ovum and the sperm, 
the whole game is played according to the genetic 
plan. In reality, if he were born two weeks earlier, 
the same child would just as well have become a 
doctor, sportsman or painter, according to his 
temperament. 

This is why—looking at the question from a 
scientific point of view. I do not think that the 
planet adds anything to the child being born. At 
the very most, it is perhaps an ‘indicator’ of a 
temperamental tendency which will lead him later 


So, Gauquelin geared up to the challenge and set about 
working on cases outside France, This covers about i5,000 
cases~-Italy 7,000 Germany 3000, Belgium 3000, and Nether- 
lands2000 plus 2000 more French births. This was no easy 
task and at every stage Gauquelin had to face many problems. 
These plus the original group of 7000 births were divided tnto 
40 specific groups. He found Mars, Saturn or Jupiter had Just 
risen or reached their culmination at these births, the planet 
depending upon the group to which the births related, the 
division being on the basis of occupation. The results of these 
findings are given in detail in"Wrttten in the Stars" and show 
an unfailing cosrrespondence between planets and personality. 
Some of these findings were independently tested and cor- 
roborated by researchers, some of whom Include the 'Para 
Committee’ in Brussels in 1967, 3 members of the CSICOP, 
American Sceptics Committee in i977 and Prof.Dr. Amo 
Muller, Saarland University, tn 1988. 


Reproduced above are excerpts from 
“Written in the Stars". 


195 


to succeed in a career which suits his character. 
What leads to success in professional life is 
hereditary predispositions, allied to a combina- 
tion of favourable circumstances. To integrate the 
planet into the system. we have to take account 
of heredity. Psychology—and particularly the 
work of Eysenck—teaches us that there is an 
hereditary basis for personality. 1 Since the posi- 
tion of the celestial body represents a factor in 
character, one explanation proves to be possible: 
that this factor is hereditary. Thus the position of 
the planet at birth would also have to be 
hereditary. 


As early as 1955, I had intended to put this 
idea into concrete form. But. for practical 
reasons, it was only from 1959 that any truly em- 
pirical research could be undertaken, this re- 
search being announced in the last chapter of 
Les Hommes et les Astres. My first results ap- 
peared in 1961 in a German Journal2. But the 
fundamental work on this subject remains my 

Heredity Planetaire (Planetary Heredity). 
which was published in 1966 with a preface by 
Professor Giorgio Plccardi. the director of the 
laboratory of physico-chemistry at the University 
of Florence, in Italy.3 1 am pleased to announce 
that an updated version of this work has iust 
been translated into English and published, In 
that work 1 give a detailed report on the results 
of an investigation carried out on some 30.000 
birth dates and times for parents and _ their 
children, collected from the birth registers for 
Paris and several places in the Paris area. 1 noted 


196 


a predisposition in children to come into the 
world when a planet is rising or reaching its cul- 
mination, if the same planet was positioned in 
the same zones*¢of the sky at their parents’ 
births. 

The tendency to have a planet in ‘'Gauquelin 
plus zones' in one's horoscope appears to be 
hereditary, hence the title of my book: planetary 
heredity. True, this tendency is not’ very 
pronounced. A very great quantity of data is re- 
quired to bring it to light. Sometimes— and this 
was the case for an investigation i published 
recently— the effect is not observed, and this 
could lead us to doubt its very existence. The 
future will doubtless show us how to explain this 
regrettable instance of non- replication. Most 
often, however, the effect can be observed in a 
manner which is statistically very significant. 


What appears certain, in any case, is that 
planetary heredity can only be observed for Mars, 
Jupiter, Saturn, Venus and the Moon, precisely 
the five temperament -planets, ‘and not with the 
others which are further away from us: Uranus, 
Neptune or Pluto, nor for Mercury either, a very 
small planet which is swamped by the Sun's 
fires. All this appears to confirm the hereditary 
nature of the five planetary types described 
above, to the exclusion of any other. Moreover, if 
both of the child's parents are born with the 
same planet in ‘Gauquelin plus zones’, then their 
child has twice as much chance of being born 
under the same planetary configuration. This last 
observation, if confirmed, is in accord with the 


197 


classical laws for the transmission of hereditary 
factors. But it is not opportune to go to further 
lengths on planetary heredity in this work. The 
curious reader will, if he wishes, find further in- 
formation on these investigations in the recent 
English translation of my book Planetary 
Heredity.* 


Midwife Planets? 


Little by little, my work encouraged me to 
propose a physical model for the planetary ef- 
fects; a very fragile model, it is true and not 
without contradictions; nothing more, in fact, 
than a proto-theorye. 

The child seems to be endowed with a 
‘planetary sensitivity)’ which induces his coming 
into the world at a ‘chosen’ moment. How can 
this be explained? In medicine it is known that 
once the moment of birth has arrived, the 
slightest little thing—the introduction into the or- 
ganism of a medicine in a homeopathic dose. for 
instance—can set off the start of labour. This 
‘slightest little thing' could be linked to planetary 
factors, so that the child could react to a cosmic 
‘call sign’ to which his planetary type would make 
him more sensitive than to any other. Playing the 
role of a catalyst or filter, the midwife planet 
would partly determine the time of birth. This Is 
the most likely mechanism: birth being imminent, 
the mother's uterine contractions are started up 
and guided by harmonal secretions from the 
foetus passing into the mother's blood; the foetal 


198 


secretions themselves being partly stimulated by 
the ‘midwife’ planet passing through the Gau- 
quelin plus zones. 

Certainly, this is a very daring model, per- 
haps too much so. and one which makes 
astrophysicists shudder. It is certain that it 
raises a shower of difficulties which have not yet 
been overcome. In a recent book. I have Indulged 
in self-criticism of my explanatory model; I refer 
the reader to this.s The most shocking thing from 
the astrophysical point of view is that I have not 
established any significant correlation for the 
Sun, whose influence on the earth and Its in- 
habitants is by far the most important. So by 
what means could the planets, which are mini- 
scule by comparison, act this role of catalyst or 
filter that I have described? There is however a 
promising sign: when the geomagnetic activity of 
the earth (which depends on sunspots and solar 
eruptions) increases, the planetary effects on 
heredity can. it seems, as much as double in fre- 
quency. 


This explanatory model also makes biologists 
shudder. Here, however, the promising signs 
seem more numerous. The role I attribute to the 
foetus, for example, is based on the most recent 
medical observations. They are, for example. ex- 
pressed in this succinct phrase of Professor 
Robert Debre, a renowned paediatrician and a 
member of the Academie de Medicine: ‘It is, the 
foetus that orders the mother to expel it!;" or 
rather, in the words of the chairman of an inter- 
national congress of obstetrics. Dr. G.S. Dawes, 


199 


of the University of Oxford: ‘Finally, there is 
evidence that suggests that the foetus normally 
initiates the process of parturition. thus liberat- 
ing itself from the intra-uterine environment 
which has protected it’. 1 can note in passing that 
these experts are merely reformulating in modern 
scientific terms the intuition of Hippocrates who 
asserted, five centuries before Christ: ‘When the 
time comes, the child stirs, breaks the 
membranes holding it and comes forth from its 
mother's womb'. 


Yes, any other theory: the search for a physi- 
cal model for planetary effects is, I fear, an al- 
most unsurmountable task in the state of current 
knowledge, because of the small material means I 
have at my disposal in order to achieve it. But. 
as William of Orange asserted in a famous 
maxim: ‘It is not necessary to hope in order to 
*undertake, nor to succeed in order to persevere*. 


it is worthwhile abandoning for once the 
‘scientification’ of my results in order to examine 
the 'symbolic' hypothesis. At the beginning, I had 
little belief in it and wrote to this effect. But cer- 
tain pieces of empirical evidence have shaken my 
antipathy for this way of seeing things. 
Alongside the theory of the celestial bodies as 
physical causes, we_ shall discover that the 
doctrine of heavenly bodies as signs or symbols is 
full of enigmatic indications which cannot be 
blindly ignored simply because we wish to remain 


200 


reject my discoveries in the name of logic. The 
reality of facts alone should be our Ariadne's 
thread in this obscure labyrinth of astral influen- 
ces where so many great minds have wandered 
hopelessly but with the deep conviction that 
there was a way out of the labyrinth, perhaps 
even many ways out. 


A planet in the 'Gauquelin plus zones' is cer- 
tainly linked to the child's predispositions. There 
is simply no need to search for a_ physical 
relationship between planet and child. As a con- 
sequence of universal sympathy, the child is .born 
in his own time. If human beings come into the 
world under the same astral configurations as 
their parents, it is because they are obeying the 
same signs. The influence of the celestial bodies, 
in the astrological sense, is not really an in- 
fluence; it is simply a_ significant coincidence be- 
tween the planet and the child. That is the true 
meaning of planetary effects, the only possible 
astrological doctrine. Im other words, the planet 
‘signs' the child; it does not influence him. 


As early as 1955, when I observed my first 
results, it was already pretty obvious to me that 
there was something astonishingly true about 
this planetary symbolism. But the time had not 
then arrived to speak of it, because it was simply 
an Impression that I was not able to prove scien- 
tifically. In my research, I had observed Mars 


201 


dominating the births of men of war and sports 
champions. Jupiter being dominant with actors. 
Saturn with scientists and the Moon with poets. 
And, it is true, many military men and cham- 
pions turn out to be ‘martial’, many actors 
‘jovial’, many scientists 'saturnine' and many 
poets ‘lunar’. Can we really speak of coinciden- 
ces? It seems difficult. 


How could I demonstrate to others what ap- 
peared to me to be terribly evident? My impres- 
sion would have to be confirmed by objective re- 
search. Fortunately, the character traits method 
made it possible to identify the psychological pat- 
terns which correspond to the positions of the 
planets in ‘Gauquelin plus zones'. The Mars, 
Jupiter, Saturn, Venus and Moon types have 
been defined and published. Thanks to this 
method. it had become possible to compare 
astrological tradition with the thousands of traits 
in our catalogue; in particular, to test the validity 
of the keywords that astrologers attribute to 
planets which are strong in the birth horoscope. 
It was going to be possible to judge my 
hypothesis, or rather, my initial impression. Al- 
ready, in 1974, in my work La Cosmopsychologie, 
with regard to our description of the planetary 
types. I had published the astrological  sig- 
nificance of the heavenly bodies according to the 
Tetrabiblos of Ptolemy, the great astrologer of an- 
tiquity.12 

This was just a first step. In [977, I sug- 
gested to my then-wife Francolse, now Schneider- 


202 


Gauquelin, that she undertake a more systematic 
investigation. ' Using the data provided by our 
catalogue of traits, she tested the validity of the 
keywords attributed by ten astrologers to the 
bodies of the solar system. She demonstrated in 
accordance with my hypothesis, that a significant 
proportion of planetary symbolism had an objec- 
tive reality. at any rate for the five celestial 
bodies for which psychological types had pre- 
viously been demonstrated. This work gave rise to 
the publication of a monograph by my 
laboratory: . This monograph has since been 
reproduced in the form of a book for which I 
wrote the preface 


The results of my investigation were very 
positive for Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Venus and the 
Moon. When they bear the ‘ancient’ astrologers’ 
keywords, the celebrities In my groups were born 
much more frequently ‘with the right planet in 
the right place’. that is. in the Gauquelin plus 
zones, than would be allowed by ch'ance. 


REFERENCES 


—_ 


Eysenek II., The Structure of Human Personality, Methuen 
London, 1970. 

Gauquclin M.. ‘Die Planctare Hereditat', Zeitschrift fur Para 
psychologie und Grenzgebiete der Psychologie, 5, 2/3,1961, 
168-193. 


3 Gauquelin M.. L’Heredite Planetatre, foreword by Prof. G.Pic- 
cardi, Florence University, Planete, Paris, 1966. 


4 Gauquelin M.. Planetary Heredity. ACS Publications. P.O.Box 
16430. San Diego, CA 92116, USA. 1988. 


No 


203 


5 Gauquelin M.,Planetary Heredity, A Reappraisal on 50,000 
subjeets, New Birthdata Series, Volume 2,LERRCP, Paris, 
1984. 


6 Seymour P.A. H., A Causal Mechanism for Gauquelin's 
Planetary Effect, Plymouth, 1986, (another very recent math- 
ematical modelfor a theory by an astronomer). 


7 Debre, Prof. R., in France-Soir, 12 April 1975. 


8 Dawes G.S., Chairman's opening remarks, Foetal Autonomy, 
CIBA Foundation. 1969. 


9 Andre J., Rendez-vous planetaries, La Science et ses 
doubles, Autrement, Paris, 1986,pp 46-53. 


1OGauquelin M., Cosmic Influences on Human Behavior Stein 
& Day, New York, 1973. ( Updated edition, Aurora Press. 
New York, 1985) 


11 Seznec J., The Survival of the Pagan Gods. Princeton 
University Press, 1972. 


12 Gauquelin M., La Cosmopsychologte, Paris,Retz. 1974. 


13 Gauquelin F., | Traditional Symbolism in Astrology and the 
character-Trait Method. Series D, Vol. 7, LERRCP, Parts 
1980 


14Gauquelin F., The Psychology of the Planets foreword by 
M. Gauquelin, Astro Computing Publications, San Diego, 
1982. 


15 Startup M.. The Accuracy of Astrologer's Keywords- Part] & 
Part 2, Correlation, 1981, 1,1, 36-43 & 1.2. 24-36. 


One {s born into a herd of buffaloes and must be glad If 
one is not trampled underfoot before one's time. 
* » » » 
Great spirits have always encountered violent oppoition 
from mediocre minds. 


204 


16 Gauquelin M., Planetary Influences: An Empirical Study of 
the Acuracy of ‘Ancient’ Astrologers’ Keywords, Correlation, 
1982, 2,2,4-11. 

17 Parr J.,  Tambulane's Malady and other Essays on Astrol- 
ogy in Elizabethan Drama University of Alabama Press, 
1953. 


18 Couderc P.. V AStrologte., P.U.F., Paris, 195]. 


19Sachs A.. Babylonian Horoscopes, Journal of Cuneiform 
Studies. 1952, 6, 2, 49. 

20 Curry, P., Astrology and Philosophy of Secience, Correla- 
tion, 1981, 1,1,4-10 ( and Astrology as a Scientific Re- 
search Programme unpublished M.Sc. thesis, London 
School of Economics, 1980). 


21 Lakatos L., The Methodology of Scientific Research 


Programmes. Cambridge University Press; ed. J, Worral & 
G. Currrie. 1978. ( quote in Curry, 1981). 


The struggle against the persistent and overwhelming 
majority of fools and of those who exploit them as tools ts 
indeed a tough one and with little prospects. But the fight 1s 
necessary for without {t mankind will be in worse plight. 


— ALBERT EINSTEIN 


205 


CHAPTER NINE 


ASTROLOGY, SCIENCE AND 
SCIENTISTS 


Kumar Babu B.E.,M.S, 


The alignment of planets on the same side of 
the Sun a few years ago gave the media an op- 
portunity to take some cheap potshots at Astrol- 
ogy. Though it had been astronomers who had 
been making a big deal of this so called align- 
ment. Imaginary predictions were attributed to 
astrologers. For example the New York Daily 
News said that "Indian Astrologer B.V.Raman 
predicted that Los Angeles would be destroyed by 
an_ earthquake." This was nothing more than a 
fabrication because we have repeatedly been ad- 
vising our readers to disregard the big fuss that 
astronomers have been making regarding this 
alignment. In our editorial in the January 1982 
issue of THE ASTROLOGICAL -MAGAZINE we stated 
"It is our opinion that no special significance be 
attached to this so-called line-up. And we would 
like to make it clear that we do not endorse the 
opinions of either Western astronomers or 
astrologers anticipating such catastrophes as a 
nuclear war, extinction of life and destruction of 
cities by earthquakes, etc. One need not get 
scared at such sensation -mongering predictions 
made in this regard". 


206 


There is no doubt that this was primarily 
done for its headline value but it is symptomatic 
of a deeper psychological disease that is afflicting 
not only the media but the public in general. The 
psychological basis for the media making unfair 
and underserved comments on Astrology probably 
resides in the newsman's (and the general 
public's) awe of scientists. This awe is so obses- 
sive that newsman who are supposed to verify the 
truth of a report before publishing it become to- 
tally tongue-tied when they are in the presence of 
scientists and take anything a scientist says as 
Gospel truth. And unfortunately since the scien- 
tific community, with a few honorable exceptions, 
has been Iess objective when it comes to Astrol- 
ogy we can't really expect anything better from 
the media either. Is Astrology a science ? Are 
scientists Justified in trying to bar the entry of 
Astrology into the comity of sciences? We will at- 
tempt to answer briefly these and other ques-. 
tions. 

Critics of Astrology have always had "valid 
arguments” to prove Astrology is not a science. It 
is important here to realize that a subtle distinc- 
tion exists between what is valid and what is 
true. The connection between truth and validity 
is this. If all the premises of a valid argument are 
true then the -conclusion is true. The thing to 
note is that the "premises" must be true. If a 
review of criticisms of Astrology 1S made one will 
invariably find that the arguments flow from faul- 
ty initial premises. A case in point is critics find- 
ing fault with Astrology on the basis of the 


207 


newspaper report above— when the report itself 
was totally wrong. 


Quantification is the introduction of numbers 
into the definition of concepts and the formula- 
tion of laws. There is no doubt that physics is the 
most thoroughly quantified of all sciences and 
there is a proclivity in some scientists to take for 
granted that tn all areas quantification alone is a 
necessary and sufficient condition for a subject to 
be classified as a science. In Astrology. psychol- 
ogy and in biological science quantification is not 
very prevalent. 


In itself quantification is no magic key. If the 
material warrants it, then its advantages are ob- 
vious. Advocates of quantification get annoyed 
when other sciences do not make an effort to 
quantify. Understandable as it is, the annoyance 
does not always make their arguments more Judi- 
cious or temperate. Deduction from quantified 
laws is easier; this is one reason why quantifica- 
tion is desirable. But to say that a subject can't 
be classified as a science unless it can quantify 4s 
totally illogical. 


There are those who think that scientists are 
always objective and fair and would have ac- 
cepted Astrology if it merited being called a 
science. This is far from the truth and is very 
clearly brought out by Theodore Gordon in his 
book ‘Ideas in Conflict' where he says "some of 
the ideas which are now the very Jewels of our 
existence were absolutely rejected by prominent 
spokemen of their age. For all our vaunted scien- 


208 


tific “achievements and publicized open-minded- 
ness, radically new ideas have few supporters. 
Ideas which did not coincide with the precon- 
ceived mainstream of scientific, political or 
religious thought were fought with militant and 
abusive dedication. Socrates. Galileo, Maxwell. 
Planck. Lister and Roentgen, all of these and 
others faced the establishment. They proposed 
the unusual, the mutant idea and they were 
rejected first, 

".....The scientists have attempted to Intro- 
duce a logical and codified reception system by 
which newly proposed data can be rationally ex- 
amined before being accepted as truth. This is 
the scientific method which purports to open Its 
arms to all new ideas to give them a fair test. 
This method implies that there are no cliques in 
science, that an idea will stand on its own worth, 
not on the opinion of pre-eminent scientists. Yet 
this approach has failed repeatedly because . 
scientifists are people who. even as you or I. are 
impressed by titles, rank, glory, and can suffer 
the ego-starvings Jealousies....". 


The whole edifice of science is built on the 
ability to prophesy. Natural laws are. after all, 
formulas for predicting. Some scientific dis- 
ciplines permit relatively exact predictions; others 
predict with less precision. These latter dis- 
ciplines, including Astrology, are those in which 
causality is not properly understood. However 
over the course of time considerable evidence has 
accumulated linking terrestrial phenomena with 


209 


planetary motion and in time causality may be 
understood better. It is impoosible to list in an 
article of this nature all the accumulated 
evidence but we will sample some of the latest 
findings. 

Ralph Morris, a professor of pharmacology at 
the University of Illinois Medical Center, studied 
more than 100 patients over 5 years and found 
that bleeding ulcers and chest pains became 
more frequent in two thirds of the patients at 
times of the Full Moon. His findings were pub- 
lished in the January 8,82 issue of the Journal of 
the American Medical Association where he says 
"People who have problems, such as_ ulcers, 
should be more careful and take their medicine 
during full-moon periods". Prof Morris thinks that 
incidences of health problems may be linked to 
changes in gravitational and_ electromagnetic 
fields. He says that while no one has pinpointed 
a cause and effect relationship there is consider- 
able support for a theory that speculates that 
magnetic interaction between the earth and the 
Moon may affect physical and emotional proces- 
ses. He further thinks that this interaction could 
affect humans because of electrical charges and 
\metals such as iron in the body. Support to the 
theory that the Moon could influence humans 
comes from J.Allen Hynek, Professor Emeritus of 
Physics and Astronomy at Northwestern Univer- 
sity. His studies show that increases in arson, 
violent crimes and strange behaviour in mental 
hospitals occur when the Moon is full. 


210 


Professor Frank Brown. Dept. of Biological 
Science at Northwestern University says that"all 
life is sensitive to the electromagnetism of the at- 
mosphere. Humans, he says, are" Just a plethora 
of magnetic fields ....". and studies have shown 
that changes in the magnetic fleld can, for in- 
stance, affect metabolism. Other researchers like 
A.P. Krueger of the University of California, 
Berkeley point out that Jon levels are known to 
change 100 fold during electrical storms and that 
positive ions In the air can drastically increase 
the levels of serotonin, a biochemical associate 
with a widerange of stress and anxiety reactions 
in animals. 


Jupiter has always been considered by 
astrologers to be a very special planet in a horo- 
scope. Modern science reiterates this in the 
February 82 issue of the Science Digest which 
says'Jupiter is probably the only planet that is 
slowly contracting and thus generating thermal 
energy which radiates into space at twice the rate 
it receives energy from the Sun. Because its very 
strong rapidly rotating magnetic field Interacts 
with the solar wind, Jupiter emits intense radio 
waves. This in conjunction with the fact that 
human beings are influenced by eletromagnetic 
fields should be sufficient to cause even the most 
hard-nosed skeptic to investigate whether planets 
may, after all. have some influence on the destiny 
of man. This may he disturbing to some who 
believe that man is master of his own destiny. 
Even here modem science seems to indicate that 
we are not really totally in control of our destiny. 


211 


For instance Sarnoff Mednick, Professor of 
Psychology at the University of Southern Califor- 
nia, says that his research (including measure- 
ment of brain waves etc..) has shown that some 
people have a genetic predisposition to commit 
crimes. In a study involving 9000 children he 
said one could predict the onset of criminal be- 
haviour as much as 10 years in advance. 


These and other scientific findings have 
shown and continue to show that the microcosm 
and the macrocosm are not after all that far 
apart. Dr.Fritjof Capra. a distinguished physicist 
at the University of California says. "Any living 
system, from a bacterium to a brain, from a 
beehive to the biosphere, is complete in itself and 
is also a component of the Cosmos. Two basic 
themes emerge again and again from the study of 
living and nonliving matter and are also repeadly 
emphasized in the teaching of the mystics—the 
Universal interconnectedness of: and interdepen- 
dence of all phenomena." 


Some researchers speculate that planetary in- 
fluences may be due to energy beyond the 
presently known limits of the electromagnetic 
spectrum, perhaps even on another still undis- 
covered spectrum. Bui others are uncomfortable 
with the Idea of a force apparently not governed 
by the known laws of physics. These others have 
an established view of the world and how natural 
laws work.and they are afraid of any new view 
point that in any way threatens their comfortable 
and settled perceptions of the world. As Beverly 


212 


Rubik, a San Francisco State University 
biophysicist says, “Everyone thinks the scien- 
tific community is cool, calm and collected 
but there are people who would rather crucify 
you than see their world view destroyed." It is 
possible that using our subconscious minds may 
be the only way of obtaining a complete under- 
standing of the effect of planetary motion on 
human affairs. Our ancient sages must have real- 
ized the limitations of the conscious mind when 
they gave more importance to "Jnana" (transcen- 
dental experience)than to “Vidya” (or knowledge). 
Princeton Psychologist Julian Jaynes likens the 
conscious mind to a flash light searching around 
a dark room. The flash light (if It could think) 
since there 1s light in whatever,direction it turns, 
would have to conclude that there ts light 
everywhere while the truth was that the room 
was dark! a2; 


« The bitter denunciation of Astrology by some 
scientists reminds us of what philosopher William 
James said many years ago about his scientist 
colleagues at Harvard. We quote, “There is in- 
cluded in, human nature an ingrained naturalism 


The Scientist's Dilemma 
i 
We are living in a period of such great external and 
{ntemal insecurity and with such a lack of firm objectives 
that the mere confession of our convictions may be of sig- 
nificance, even ff these convictions, as all value Judgements, 
cannot be proven through logical deductions. 


213 


and? materialism’ ‘of : mind ‘which can only admit 
facts* that“ are actually tangible, jot this sort of 
mind thefentity called ‘science’, is' the idol. Fond- 
ness"for thé!word ‘scientist’ Is one’ ‘ofthe notes by 
which you may know’ its votaries: and its short 
way of killing any. opinion' that it‘ disbelleves in is 
to call it ‘unscientific’.” 

There have been a number of ‘Investigating 
Committees' which have been formed — all with 
the express intent of debunking Astrology and 
other paranormal phenomena. Dr.Hynek ridicules 
these committees with this observation, "What 
sort of a scientific investigation Is it that as- 
sumes the answer before starting ?". The 
answer to a research problem should never be 
anticipated to such a degree that It strongly 
influences the approach to the problem. 
Ridicule can not and should not be an ac- 
cepted part of the scientific method. 


In each epoch of man's history there has 
been a smugness of knowledge that is not ap- 
parent to most participants of that age. It_is an 


* There arises at‘onee the question: should we consider 
the search for truth or more modestly expressed, our efforts 
to understand the universe "through constructive, logical 
truth—as an autonomous obfective of our work? . . , 


This, in a sense, religious attitude of a man engaged In 
scientific work has some influence on his whole personality. 
For apart from the knowledge which is offered by accumu- 
lated experience and from the rules of logical thinking, 
there exists in principle for the man of science no authority 
whose decisions and statements could have 


214 


unawareness of things not properly understood. 
Things that are bewildering and unthinkable at 
that point in time but holding answers for the 
future. That is why it is essential that scientists 
study the puzzling phenomena of today, not dis- 
miss with ridicule, with humility and dignity. 


themselves a claim to “truth”. This leads to a paradoxical 
situation that a person who devotes all his strength to ob- 
jective matters will develop from a social point of view, Into 
an extreme individualist who at least in principle has faith 
in nothing but his own Judgement. It Is quite possible to 
assert that intellectual individualism and the thirst for 
scientific knowledge emerged simultaneously in history and 
remained inseparable eversince. 


— Albert Einstein 


215 
CHAPTER TEN 


ASTROLOGY AND OUR SPACE 
PROGRAMME* 


Gayatri Devi Vasudev 

July 13, 1988 was indeed one of the darkest 
days, In the life of our space programme. Even as 
the 150 Kg ASLV-D2 satellite shot into the sky 
and the scientific community gathered at 
Sriharikota cheered shouting ‘success, success’, a 
pall of gloom descended over it within a mere 150 
seconds, when the Augmented Satellite Launch 
Vehicle (ASLV-D2), carrying a stretched Rohini 
series Satellite plunged into the Bay of Bengal, 
hissing fumes! 

Except for isolated instances of bold write 
ups on the failure, the media, by and _ large. 
preferred not to criticize the dismal performance 
of our science-men. On the contrary many con- 
soled the scientists that programmes everywhere 
had had to face failure and one even went so far 
as to pat the space scientist on his back and 
prod him to redouble his efforts. As in the past 
the Failure Analysis Committee was entrusted 
with the task of finding out what went wrong, 
where and why. 


The 1SRO Chairman drew consolation from 
the fact that failures have also occurred in U.S. 
and European space programs but conveniently 


* Reproduced from THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE, October 
1988 


216 


avoided comparing the success-failure ratio of 
our programs to that of other countries! ISRO's 
shocking 66 ‘per cent launch -failure is the 
highest. Against this background, it was 
ridiculous for the ISRO chief to say that the Polar 
Launch Vehicle Program will remain unaffected. 


The Government (presumably on the advice of 
our space scientists) uses ‘technology spin off as 
a justification for the colossal amounts of money 
being spent on the space program. This technol- 
ogy spin-off includes nationwide television, better 
telephone systems and_ sophisticated cyclone 
warning systems. Apart from the fact that none of 
these thingshave materialized, all-the — spin-off 
Items can be purchased from the U.S., Russia 
and Western Europe at a fraction of the cost. As 
an example. Singapore has no space program but 
its telephone systems far outclass those of every 
city in india. It is apparent to us that the govern- 
ment is afraid of displeasing the powerful 
’space/science lobby' that seems to be" om- 
nipresent. The 7th plan assigns 700 crore 
rupees to space when basics like drinking 
water, sanitation etc.. are in short supply in 
every city of India. Imagine the benefits if that 
money was invested in improving our 
country's water supplies. 


The ‘space lobby' is a creation of ego bound 
Indian scientists who start ‘prestigious’ projects 
(that have very little relevance to the country's 
real needs) in order to advance their careers. 
Career advancement is easy in India if you start 


217 


expensive projects even if you do not complete 
them. Large segments of .the Indian press appear 
to understand little about the state of technology 
development outside the country. So much so 
that any press release from a National Laboratory 
or an Indian University is immediately accorded 
headline status! 


Our' Rishis who gave us such sciences as 
Vaimanika' Sastra (crudely translated as 
aeronautics) also gave us Jyotisha a beacon of 
knowledge to show light where conventional 
methods of ‘information gathering’ must stop due 
to various limitations. There is general scientific 
agreement that at any given point in time science 
has a degree of incompleteness-resulting in some 
inconsistencies and Jyotisha is no exception. 
Hence it is surprising that some ‘scientists’ dis- 
play such ignorance when dealing with Astrology. 


The ASLV-D2 was launched on an Amavasya 
(new Mqon)— a most unsuitable time astrological- 
ly. Though the launch probably had severe tech- 
nical problems—not surprising because of the low 
calibre of some of our scientists— the inauspi- 
cious launch time itself magnified the technical 
problems. Dr. Ram Shrivastava, Professor of 
Physics at the Holkar Science College,Indore and 
Founder Member of ICEPS (International Centre 
for Educational Physics Experiments in Space) 
echoed a fundamental dictum of Muhurta or elec- 
tional Astrology when he said "No space scientist 
would dare to launch a satellite on a new Moon 


218 


night when the earth tilts in the direction of the 
Sun and the Moon resulting in severe tides." 


in fact. Dr.Shrivastava’s warning to the Mini- 
ster of State for Science and Technology had been 
arrogantly dismissed by the concerned Minister 
with the words he (the Minister) did not know if 
"the scientist was well-known or reputed". Had 
Astrology been applied, "the hard-earned money 
of the nation would not have been thrown into 
the Bay of Bengal". it is all the more appropriate 
now for thoughtful decision makers to seriously 
consider Astrology as a planning tool in projects 
of national interest. 


The failure of the ASLV-D2 brings four points 
into sharp focus: (1) a new vindication of 
astrological principles, (2) a lack of under- 
standing of the term 'science’ of some newsmen, 
(3) failure of the news media to critically review 
our scientists’ performance and (4) the guilty 
silence of men in responsible positions on the 
tremendous wastage of public money. 


A few days before the launch, many a 
newspaper carried columns on how foolproof this 
venture was: and one went on to say "This 
second ASLV being in effect the first operational 
one. no chances are being taken* and further 
wrote, naively, of the Failure Analysis Committee 
constituted by the iSRO Chairman to find out 
what went wrong wifh SROSS-1 and that it would 
do everything to ensure the success of SROSS-II 


The truth of our observations made in the 
June 1975 issue of THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 


219 


when India's first space-craft was launched from 
a Soviet cosmodrome has now been borne out. 
We had observed: ".... This has occurred Just on 
the eve of the country coming under the second 
and more significant phase of sade-sathi in- 
fluence of Saturn. Obviously this is a period of 
great saturnine strain on Indian affairs and we 
are hesitant to join the chorus of sooth-sayers 
amongst our politicians and scientists that 
"Aryabhata" now In orbit, and “Robini” the 
second Satellite to be put into orbit would 
serve the nation in its development efforts. 
This inference becomes fortified if the chart cast 
for the.time of launching Aryabhata ts carefully 
assessed. Lord of the Ascendant Moon ruling 
Aryabhata is in the Ascendant in the constella- 
tion of Saturn who in turn occupies the 12th 
without any beneflc aspects. But Jupiter, lord of 
the 9th, aspects the Ascendant. Obviously this 
disposition indicates that the launching could act 
as a shot in the arm to our country now under 
the grip of moral degeneracy and economic chaos. 

"Mercury, the planet of science ruling the 3rd 
and 12th houses, is in the 10th in exact conjunc- 
tion with the Sun. lord of the 2nd. the constella- 
tion of Ketu being involved. The exaltation of the 
political planet in the 10th is significant in as 
much as the experiment in space while 
strengthening the image of the rulers and divert- 
ing public attention, will not have much 
relevance to the current problems of India's 
economic and social development.... 


“What are the uses of ‘Aryabhata’ and how do 
they benefit the country?" -are questions~ that 
naturally arise in our minds. Lord of the 4th 
(agriculture) and 11th (benefits) is no doubt 
placed in the 11th but he is in conjunction with 
Ketu aspected by'Mars and subject to Papakar- 
tari Yoga being hemmed in between the Sun and 
Mercury on one side and Saturn on the. other. 
Because Mars is a yogakaraka its prestige as a 
member ‘of the Space Club will be enhanced but 
it will not find a" practical’ application in the 
course and content of economic development as a 
whole... - ; “et 


“Aryabhata"" was put into orbit under the 
directional influence of Saturn which will last for 
nearly 14 years. Saturn as lord of the 7th is in 
the 12th while in the'Navamsa his affliction is 
not less pronounced. Therefore, it occurs to us 
that we should not expect much useful result 
from this experiment. 

Every single word said above has come out 
true. The relevance of this project to our 


221 


economic and social life is dubious. its role in 
improving agriculture has been zero. What initial- 
ly started at 4 crores of rupees is now mounting 
with each venture, the present costing 23 crores 
of rupees and taking into account the 15 months 
of work by space-science men it would probably 
run into several more crores. 


In a country where millions die for lack of 
food and countless children are ravaged by dis- 
ease and malnutrition, putting public funds to 
such prestige-boosting exercises and expensive 
luxuries 1S an appalling and disgraceful com- 
mentary on the Government's priorities. 


Reproduced below is a table from a national 
daily which is to say the least amusing. Inciden- 
tally, the June 1981 launch is described as a 
success although the mission ended in less than 
10 days against a life expectancy of 90 days! 

LANDMARKS IN SPACE PROGRAMME 


sensing 


DATE SATELLITE FUNCTION LAUNCHER RESULT 
MAR. 19,1975 Aryabhata Sctentific U.S.S.R.Success 
7.1979 Bhaskara-1 Earth 
nuns eat observation U.S.S.R. Success 
10, ini Earth 
pug Tet Kebint observation SLV-3 Failure 
July 18,1980 Rohini Earth 
observation SLV-3 Success 
June 19,1981 Apple Communi- Arfane 
cation Euro-pean Success 
Space Agency 
Nov.20,1981 Bhaskara II Earth 
observation USSR. Success 
May 31.1981 Rohini Scientific SLV 3 Failure 
Apr. 17,1983 Rohini Sclenttfic SLV-3 Success 
Mar .24,1987 SROSS-I Technology 
and Appll - ‘ 
cation ASLV_ Failure 
Mar. 19,1988 IRS-IA Remote 


U.S.S.R.Succes 


Courtesy : THE HINDU (14-7-1988} 


222 


Seven of these launches are described as suc- 
cessful and no one still knows, the spacemen in- 
cluded, what that means. If putting.a satellite at 
colossal cost to the exchequer in the sky is 
decribed as a success, well... And the term failure 
in all the 3 cases is a disastrous plunge down 
into the sea within minutes of take off. Perhaps, 
the launches did not come down tmmediately is 
what success means.according to this table. In- 
cidentaly, the. Table is indulgent to ISRO in 
enumerating its success and needs correction. 

Earlier on 10-8-1979 ‘Rohini’ SLV-3 also 
came plummeting into the Bay of Bengal within 5 
minutes of take-off. A horoscope (Chart 2) cast 
for this launch has serious afflictions. 


The Lagna is Leo. occupied by powerful 
Saturn and Rahu while the Moon is in the 7th. 
All the benefics are relegated to the 12th house. 

In the parent launch (Chart 1). the Dasa lord 
Saturn is in the 12th house in Aridra and its 
ruler Rahu js debilitated in the 5th house. Rahu 
in the 5th {fs a severe affliction that can give 


223 


problematic offspring (in this context the series 
may have a chequered career) some times, at 
other times, a mental euphoria of success where 
it is not,phantasical plans, wild imagination and 
hypochrondria also. Saturn as Dasa lord made 
the successful projects practically useless and 
the failures, abysmally dismal. Saturn Dasa ends 
in August 1989. The present Bhuktl is that of 
Jupiter and is the last one in Saturn Dasa going 
by the name of dasa-chidra. Saturn, the 7th and 
8th lord and a first rate malefic, is placed in the 
12th house. His blemish is slightly redeemed by 
being in Jupiter's constellation, although Jupiter 
is himself caught between malefics. Jupiter and 
Saturn are in Nakshatraparivartana which is not 
too bad but the chart suffers from severe strokes 
of balarishta and the Dasa of a maraka planet 
running can hardly support the grandiose objec- 
tives envisaged in our space programmes. 


"Bhaskara 1’, which marked Experiment two 
of the space sctentists, was launched on 7th 
June, 1979 at 16 hours (1ST), again from a Soviet 
cosmodrome. Its function was described as earth 
observation and that included "studies in hydrol- 
ogy, metelorology, forestry and other related 
areas of economic developments". 'Bhaskara' was 
an improvement on 'Aryabhata' in that it cost Rs. 
6.5 crores (the launcher being a gift from USSR), 
took 4 years to build and involved 600 men who 
worked on it in different space centres in the 
country. This was in Venus Bhuktl of Saturn 
Dasa in Chart 1. Venus as 11th lord is afflicted 
by Ketu. The Dasa lord Saturn is in the 12th in 


224 


the house of expenditure and as a malefic allows 
for unwarranted spending or to put It more plain- 
ly. creates losses. 


In ‘Bhaskara’s chart (Chart 3)' discussed in 
the August 1979 issue of THE ASTROLOGICAL 
MaGAZINE,we wrote. “Lord of the Ascendant Venus 
is In the 8th in his own sign in association with 
the Sun, lord of the 11th and the constellations 
involved being Krittika and Mrigasira respectively. 
This disposition suggests that the launching of 
‘Bhaskara’ can at best act as not only a shot In 
one arm (o the sagging spirit of our scientist as 
the pace of our progress In space science is far 
from spectacular, but also strengthen the image 
of our rulers whose amateurish methods of 
governing have placed India under the grip of 
moral degeneracy not to speak of economic chaos 
and political confusion. Mercury, the planet of in- 
telligence, thinking, communications, weather 
and intellectual acumen, is !deally placed In the 
9th as lord of the 2nd and the 7th. This Is a 
silver lining as Mercury's position denotes that 


225 


‘Bhaskara’ will contribute to some extent to the 
advancement of knowledge pertaining to 
weather.... 


"What is the main mission of 'Bhaskara' and 
how does it benefit the ‘common man' and the 
weaker sections about whom our politicians shed 
crocodile tears day im and day out? The satellite 
is said to identify mineral occurrence areas. The 
fourth rules minerals, agriculture, etc. It is 
aspcected by exalted Jupiter, lord of the 3rd and 
6th. But lord of the 4th Saturn is with Rahu in 
the 8th from the 4th. This is not an encouraging 
disposition though Saturn and Rahu are posited 
in the 11th. 


"... In fact, Ketu in the 5th can only mean 
Imaginary uses and nothing more. 

Satur, the Sth lord, nuling: ntelligence is 
eclipsed by Rahu. It is also the house of invest- 
ment and Saturn's affliction by the nodes con- 
firms the unwise investment of both grey-matter 
and resources which finally showed up as a big 
failure. 


‘Rohini’ D2 launched in April 1983 is said to 
have been an unqualified success for ISRO. One 
just cannot be satisfied by such statements. One 
is also curious to know why it was called suc- 
cessful. Simply because The Rohini D2 took more 
than 2500 imageries which were used for iden- 
tification of features of Bhadravati forests in Kar- 
nataka, snow cover in Sutlej and vegetation in 
northern Andhra Pradesh" although this data was 
of practically no utility compared to the cost of 


226 


acquiring it. The same data could have been 
provided by U.S. satellites currently orbiting the 
earth for a nominal cost. The same crores if 
employed to Improve agriculture would have paid 
spectacular dividends both In terms of produce 
and in terms of improving the life of the poor 
farmer. But none of it. These space programmes 
provide Information using which a paper is writ- 
ten, read at an international conference, and the 
reader given a citation amidst the clicking of 
cameras and the clapping of hands. A single ego 
is bloated out of all proportion and that at what 
cost to the exchequer? Some space project this! 

‘Rohini" D2's predecessor's performance is 
also described as a success thereby making a 
mockery of this term if we look into the facts of 
the Rohini Satellite which went up on July 19, 
1981. Its" mission ended in Just- 9 days as 
against the envisaged 90 days due to low attitude 
problems". 


Now when the media heralded the second 
ASLV Launch on July 13,'it was received with 
crossed fingers by the astrological community. 
More so because of the sad choice of the lunar 
day being Amavasya, in the context of the first 
developmental flight of the ASLV also going up in 
smoke. This was barely a-year ago when accord- 
ing to the spacemen, the operational launch 
vehicle had failed to "achieve its mission's objec- 
tives". In spite of that, said the press, which 
seemed to have clearly" succumbed to the story 
doled out to it by the ‘scientists’, that "much of 


227 


the technology developed for the ASLV could be 
tested during its 3 minute flight and the perfor- 
mance was found to be satisfactory" even if in 
common parlance it had failed even before the 
end of this 3 minutes of providing profound en- 
lightenment! 

According to the FAC the failure of the mis- 
sion was due to an occurrence which had only an 
exceedingly low probability. Chances or no chan- 
ces and in spite of all the detailed research 
and investigation by the FAC, SROSS-II went 
the same way as its predecessor, because' the 
orthodox scientific community of our country 
did not have an open enough mind to consider 
the use of Astrology. There has been, never 
before, such rigidly of outlook as we now have 
in our officially designated scientists. 


SROSS-I was launched on March 29. 1987 in 
Jupiter Bhuktl of Saturn Dasa of the parent 
chart. The chart (Chart 4) for the time of blast-off 
has some interesting features. 

The weekday was Tuesday. The Moon is in 
the 8th. a powerful combination for balarishta. 
Apparently abhyii, the Sun in the 10th is himself 
afflicted by Rahu. The Moon in the 8th is one of 
the doshas frowned upon in electional Astrology. 
in fact, the. principle is Sarveshukaryeshusasi 
balatayah that no matter what the venture, the 
Moon must be rendered strong. 


The same mistake was repeated at the 
launching of ASLV_D2 (Chart 5) rendered worse 
by the lunar day being Amavasya, Amavaasyaa 


228 


niraarambha sarvaarambhesh varjitam— meaning 
the new Moon day should be rejected for any 
enterprise. We may also note the concentration of 
the malefic influences of the Sun, the Moon, 
Mars and Saturn on the 8th or house of destruc- 
tion. The 8th lord Mercury is in Aridra ruled by 
Rahu. Any tyro in Astrology could predict that 
ASLV- D2 would meet with instantaneous death. 


The Ascendant is in a martian sign Scorpio. 
Both Aries and Scorpio ruled by Mars are taboo 
for any undertaking. Panchaka works out to 4 
which is unsafé:“Now let us take a look at its 


229 


previous project shown by the 11th house Virgo 
(ruling elder siblings). Virgo is afflicted by the 
combined aspects of Mars and Saturn. The 11th 
lord Mercury {is also aspected by both malefics 
showing the fate of its predecessor. 


Apart from the fact that the launch-off times 
were astrologically unsound the last Bhuktl of 
Saturn Dasa (Chart 1) now running does not 
seem to indicate smooth sailing for the space 
projects of our country. 


Chart 1 has an interesting melee of planetary 
dispositions. The Lagna and Lagna lord are both 
in Cancer, the constellation occupied by both 
being Pushya ruled by Saturn. Saturn as a func- 
tional malefic and placed in a dusthana transfers 
his inhibiting qualities to the Lagna. Therefore 
results of the space project will be nebulous, 
non-profitable, entail heavy losses and be marked 
by a string of failures. Yogakaraka Mars who is 
also the 10th lord (ruling achievements) is in the 
8th house and this does not speak much of fu- 
ture performances either. "Results include "many 
breaks in career, lf the 10th lord is fortified. he 
will occupy a high office in his field but only for a 
short time. If a malefic planet afflicts the 10th 
lord, the person has criminal propensities and 
commits offences. Saturn here makes the person 
an undertaker or otherwise employed in burning 
ghats, grave yards etc". These are for individual 
charts but can be suitably adapted to the project 
although they cannot be read too literally. The 
10th lord Mars is afflicted by being in Rahu’s 


230 


constellation and Rahu 1s afflicting the house of 
intelligence from his sign of debility. This sug- 
gests impaired thinking and inability to com- 
prehend realities. The 10th lord in the 8th, house 
of death, is hardly indicative of laudable achieve- 
ments. On the contrary it points to more dismal 
performances. 


In Chart 1 Jupiter in the 9th is the only 
saving grace of a jinxed space program. It may 
give an occasional sample of a semi- successful 
launch and nothing more. But Jupiter Dasa ts 
practically ruled out this century and this dis- 
position of Jupiter ceases to be relevant. 


Mercury Dasa can be interesting for Mercury, 
though 12th lord, is in the 10th with exalted Sun 
(2nd lord) and can normally give rather gratifying 
results in terms of achievement. But within a 
year of the advent of Mercury Dasa, transit 
Saturn will have moved to Capricorn bringing the 
chart under affliction again. This could therefore 
give another spell of frustration and gloom for 
our space 'scientists'. The Sun, 2nd lord joining 
12th lord Mercury in a constellation of Ketu will 
fire the ambitions of the spacemen so much as to 
expend astronomical amounts to put their plans 
into action but most of it ultimately going up in 
smoke. LITTERALLY! 


Phenomena come to us disguised in their frameworks of 
time and space; they arc messages in cipher of which we 
shall not understand the ultimate significance until we have 
discovered how to decode them out of their space-time wrap- 
pings. 

Sir James Jeans (The Universe Around Us). 


231 


CHAPTER ELEVEN 


HOW | WAS CONVINCED ABOUT 
ASTROLOGY 


Late Dr. S.A. Bhise, D.Sc.,Ph.D. 


(Dr. S.A. Bhise was an eminent scientist and 
a great inventor. His inventions in the realm of 
mechanics were largely to do with the casting 
and composing of type. American and European 
scientific Journals conceded that he had satisfac- 
torily solved the Intricate problem of multiple 
type-casting and he was dubbed "the Edison of 
India". In the chemical line he developed proces- 
ses for reducing Iodine to its atomic non- 
poisonous and water-soluble form. According to 
Scientific American, “the work of Dr. Bhlise should 
dispel the Itllusion, that the Indian brain sadly 
lacked inventive faculty". Such an eminent 
scientist's personal experiences with astrologers, 
must be of great value to the advocates of Astrol- 
ogy for Dr. Bhise’s opinions are not coloured by 
misconceptions and prepossessions which char- 
acterise the utterences of modern scientists on 
Astrology.) 


As a youth I had not the slightest faith in 
Astrology. This despite the fact that my parents 
firmly believed that the stars exert an influence 
on human affairs. They used to consult 
astrologers frequently. 

However, I kept an open mind on the subject. 
In the event of coming across evidence which 


232 


proved conclusively the soundness of astrological 
principles, 1 would gladly recognize the science as 
valid, I told my friends. I meant every word of it. 

Thus. when, in 1895, in the twenty-seventh 
year of my life, I was afforded an opportunity to 
observe astrological evidence at first hand, I 
proceeded to investigate the matter with all scien- 
tific impartiallty at my command. 

In the course of my sojourn at Lucknow, 
whither I had gone as a piligrim, | heard that a 
famous astrologer and palmist had taken up 
residence in the city. In order to “kill time", I 
went to him one day. I told him quite frankly of 
my scepticism. But I assured him that in the 
event of his furnishing conclusive evidence of his 
claims, | would cheerfully confess my conversion. 


The man was a venerable Brahmin pandit 
and since I was from distant Bombay. he was a 
total stranger to me. It was scarcely conceivable, 
therefore, that anything he said was based on 
previous information. 


He regarded me solemnly for several seconds, 
carefully examined my palms, and asked whether 
1 had two hours or more to spare. "Here Is one 
thing at any rate that I can safely predict. If you 
can spare the time, you will leave here fully con- 
vinced". 

"1 called his bluff" and he set to work. The 
first thing he did was to take impressions of my 
palms on a sheet of paper. Then he studied the 
lines on the soles of my feet. Finally, he com- 


233 


pleted an involved series of mathematical calcula- 
tions and satd: 

"I am now going to ask you several questions, 
please answer nothing but ‘yes’ or 'no’. 

"Did you lose your father when you were 
twenty-six years of age?" (I answered in the af- 
firmative, attributing the guess to the fact that he 
knew me to be on a holy pilgrimage and such 
journeys are usually undertaken on behalf of the 
disembodied soul of one's late parent and occur 
after the first anniversary of the death). 


"Did you complete your formal education at 
the age of twenty-one and enter the civil, military 
or private service soon afterwards?" (This too. I 
attributed to mere guess work. Such a program 
is quite the usual thing for the educated Hindu). 


"Did your first wife pass away several months 


before your father?" (This was more than mere 
guess work. I was now intensely interested). 
Tell me, " I asked him, "would you care to 


cast my horoscope? Could you undertake to tell 
me the approximate date of my birth and, at the 
same time, tell me something of what the future 
has in store for me? I have all the time in the 
world at my disposal at the present moment, and 
I shall be glad to pay you well for your services." 


"Frankly", - the pandit smiled benevolently as 
he said this "I am very much interested in your 
case. I would regard it as a privilege to cast your 
horoscope. But I warn you I shall have to spend 
considerable time making the necessary calcula- 
tions." 


234 


Two hours later, the good Brahmin Was ready 
with his report. 

"At the time of your birth, Pisces was In the 
Ascendant" .- 


I was mildly surprised. - "You were bom in 
April 1867." - The adjective mildly no longer ap- 
plied - "You came into this world on the 29th day 
of the month, shortly before sunrise." At that my 
amazement knew no bounds. - “As nearly as | 
can calculate it", he ruthlessly continued, "You 
were bom at 4-30 in the morning." 


My scepticism was at an end. | frankly and 
enthusiastically admitted this to the astrologer. I 
entreated him to enlighten me with regard to the 
future. 


The sage was silent for several minutes. 
Then he said: "Within less than a year, you will 
be given an unexpected opportunity to travel to a 
far distant land, north-west of India. This will 
mark the beginning of a new career. it will be 
entirely at variance with that of your father." 
Within six months 1 left for England. - "You will- 
reside in foreign lands for many years. And you 
will become celebraated for your work. You will 
derive a comfortable living from your labours. 
never, however, be truly a man of wealth. You 
will achieve considerable success in some kind of 
humanitarian work. In work of a medical nature 
among other things. You will incline Increasingly 
toward an interest of philosophy and matters oc- 
cult. You will ever be striving anxiously and 
earnestly—-independently to boot—to achieve 


235 


something worthwhile. Assistance will be offered 
you more largely by foreignersy-than your own 
people. You will have plenty of secret enemies. 
No one, though, will be able to do you any harm. 
You will devote the best part of your life to the 
fulfilment of some important task or mission. 
After a hard struggle you will succeed. You will 
owe your success to financial and moral support 
rendered you by foreigners unexpectedly. You 
will neither gamble nor speculate nor become ad- 
dicted to any vice. You will live an exemplary 
life. After reaching a ripe age you will be sur- 
vived by grown-up sons and daughters and 
grandsons and grand-daughters. 


"Scorpio in relation to Saturn occupies a 
peculiar' position in your horoscope. On_ this 
account, you will never sanction religious or- 
thodoxy, so called. Rather, you will become a 
religious and social reformer of note. When you 
will have passed your sixty-fifth birthday. you 
will devote the great part of your time to the 
study of philosophy and the occult sciences. To 
facilitate your studies you will retire from all 
commercial activity. In fact, you will virtually 
renounce all worldly interest. According to the 
planetary aspects of your horoscope and lines of 
your palms, you are destined at this time to il- 
luminate the weary ways of the world with a new, 
important concept, a concept which will either 
take the form of a philosophical or spiritual truth 
or be translated into a measure of reform. Your 
accomplisment will be accorded wide renown. 


236 


Your memory will persist in the minds of the 
world at large for many years after your death". 

A large part of the foregoing has already been 
substantiated, especially the last. Within the 
past few years, I have not only proposed a con- 
crete “measure of reform " (viz., the World Globe 
Temple) but I have also devoted considerable time 
to the study of philosophy and religion with a 
view to write a "Philosophy of Reason". I intend 
to retire from all temporal affairs within two or 
three years. 

My enlightment encompassed a period of 
more than three hours. 

My mother verified the hour of my -birth for 
me on return to the hotel, in as much as I was 
not myself fully aware of it and I found my Luck- 
now friend's rough horoscope, when I was once 
more back in Bombay, totally almost Mne for line 
with that cast at the time of my birth. The only 
exception I could note was that of the position 
assigned to the Moon; the Lucknow astrologer 
identified a particular phase as existing with 
Aquarius in the ascendancy whereas the man my 
father had engaged showed it In relation to Pis- 
ces. Then, of course, there was six minutes dif- 
ference In the time of birth. 


From that time to this very day I have been a 
staunch believer in Astrology and Palmistry. I 
have constantly in the interest of science, at- 
tempted to sift the truth from the falsities. 


My horoscope... | with the first an- 
nouncements in the Indian press of the Chicago 


world fair of 1893. 1 became conscious of a burn- 
ing desire to make a trip to the United States. 
Since I had no way of knowing whether or not I 
would be afforded the opportunity for such a 
journey - as a matter of fact, my circumstances 
at the time seemed to indicate anything but the 
likelihood of my leaving India in the near future - 
1 consulted a prominent Bombay astrologer. As I 
have already pointed out, I had not the slightest 
faith in Astrology at the time; It was only out of 
curiosity. The good man at once pronounced the 
the Aries Ascendant horoscope the more reliable. 
He proceeded to predict, on the strength, of it. 
that 1 would never leave India. 


On the other hand, the Lucknow sage, as 1 
have already indicated, cast my horoscope with 
Pisces In the Ascendant and, on the strength of 
Saturn's position during Scorpio's ascendancy, he 
prophesied my spending the greater part of my 
life achieving success abroad. 

Needless to say. the fulfilment of the 
Lucknow prognostication has resulted in Hindu 
astrologers with one accord discarding the horo- 
scope with Aries in the Ascendant and accepting 
that dominated by Pisces. 

The following are positions of the planets as 
determined by Hindu astrologers: 

There its the conjunction of Venus and Mer- 
cury, during the ascendancy of Pisces, which Is 
considered highly beneficial. As a result of it, I 
have acquired International repute as _ India's 
pioneer and inventor. In addition. I have secured 


238 


myself a significant position in social and scien- 
tific circles generally. The publicity accorded me 
by the press, I might state, has at no time in 
recent years been inconsiderable. 

Pisces appears in my horoscope incidentally, 
in the first house. 

The Sun's position in the second house, with 
Aries In the ascendent. is indeed an exalted one. 
In accordance with it I have at all times beer 
able to earn a comfortable living. I have had lit 
{le trouble securing adequate financial backin 
for my inventions. Unlike so many accidental in 
ventors, I have never had the experience of bein 
given anything other than an executive post O1 
the board of directors of the company organised 
for my contrivance's exploitation. 1 have been 
either president, vice-president. or some other of- 
ficer, with a proportionate share in the company's 
earnings. However, it has not been destined that 
I mass wealth or make any appreciable savings. 
The Sun's position 1s scarcely favorable as can 
readily been; the Sun in the house of wealth is 
considered favourable to spiritual rather than 
temporal well-being. 


Mars appears in the fifth house with Cancer 
in the ascendancy. which is by no means too 
favourable. On account of it, I was forced to end 
my formal education with graduation from high 
school. Owing, however, to the opportunities for 
observation and enlightening contact afforded in 
the Occident, I have been able. I believe, consider- 
ably to increase my store of knowledge. I have 


239 


been granted honorary academic degrees and 
membership in sundry engineering and learned 
societies. 

Rahu. the earth's node, apears in the sixth 
house, with Leo in the ascendancy. This is a 
decidedly good omen. According to Hindu Astrol- 
ogy, Rahu in the 6th house raises a man of the 
most humble origin to the position of a powerful 
potentate and enables him to crush his enemies 
with ease. 


1, for one, did not reach such an exalted 
position as that of king or dictator. However, it 
is true that 1 was born in India, a land scientifi- 
cally centuries behind the times, and that despite 
the almost insurmountable obstacles arising out 
of this contingency I have "beat" a number of 
European scientists and inventors "at their own 
game". It ts also a fact that I have had any num- 
ber of enemies, the greater portion of whom have 
been characterised by duplicity. Yet, with the 
help of the Almighty. 1 have consistently prevailed 
against_them. 


I am told by Hindu astrologers that H.H. 
Sayaji Rao, Gaekwar of Baroda has a horoscope 
which, too. shows Rahu in the sixth house. On 
this account it 1s believed he ascended to the 
throne. Neediess to-say. he was aided by other 
powerful planetary aspects as well. 

Saturn {s shown in the ninth house with 
Scorpio in the ascendancy. Saturn {s a_ slow- 
moving planet. Its chief function is to increase 
the beneficence of the influences peculiar to the 


240 


house in which it finds itself and in my case 
these influences pertain to travel and to religion. 


As regards travel, I have made several long 
voyages from India to England and retum, and 
from England to the United States. All in all. I 
have spent more than thirty three years of my 
life, the greater part by far. in travel and 
residence abroad. In the house directly opposite, 
the third, Saturn is in exceedingly bad aspect, to 
which fact I have absolutely no assistance from 
brothers, sisters or relatives. 

With regard to religion, 1 have throughout 
waged relentless war against orthodoxy, so-called 
and deceitful dogma. I have devoted not a little 
time to matters philosophical and had _ en- 
deavoured with more or less zeal to effect social 
and religious reforms. It is interesting to note in 
this connection that the sadesatt of Saturn in my 
case begins somewhere in [933. the year in 
which I am contemplating the inception of a dras- 
tic change in my way of life. 


When I was about five years of age, we 
removed to Bombay, to a house which my father 
had had built next door to a family of Christian 
persuasion. A very real friendship sprung up be- 
tween our neighbours and ourselves and i used 
very often to have tea with them, often afternoon. 
My further contact with a faith other than Hindu 
was obtained at Christian Missionary School at 
which my education commenced. 


In the course of my residence abroad, my 
contacts have been almost exclusively with Chris- 


241 


tians and Jews and it is by them that I have 
been helped most considerably in my work. 

The conjunction of Jupiter and the Moon and 
Ketu (the Moon's node in relation to the earth) 
with Aquarius in the ascendancy, in the twelfth 
house of my horoscope represent the expenditure 
of money. Due to Jupiter's favourable aspect in 
this case, my money was rarely spent for any 
reason other than one of necessity, that is; for 
up-keep of the home, for worth-while causes, etc. 

Since the Moon is the ruler of the mind, and, 
in this case is found in, Aquarius, I have con- 
stantly been engaged in Intellectual pursuits, in 
the solving of scientific problems and the study of 
philosophical and occult subjects. Astrologers 
term me an "Aquarian" as a matter of fact. 


The effect of the Moon, however, is compli- 
cated by the phenomenon of Ketu, the eclipse 
aspect as I have already stated. By virtue of this 
land, I have often been in "hot water" (the oc- 
cidental astrologer does not take such concurren- 
ces into account and cannot, therefore, help but 
be in error). 


In [896 I first acquired a full knowledge of 
Ketu's significance in my horoscope. It was from 
the lips of no less renowned a Hindu Gujarathi 
(astrologer) than the aged Nursi Joshi, of Bom- 
bay. He warned me that my inventions and 
ideals were bound at all times not only to meet 
with misunderstanding and distrust but with 
Jealousy and envy - to breed for me enemies of a 
cowardly nature who. not having the courage 


242 


confront me with their indictments in public, 
would resort to a whispering campaign against 
me. He assured me at the same time that I was 
certain to emerge from all thls triumphant. He 
even went so far as to say that every obstacle in 
my path would serve only to assist me on my 
way. 

Since the Moon's eclipse is caused by the 
shadow of the earth itself, enemies would be 
found among my fellow countrymen. It would be 
only on exceedingly rare occasions that help 
would be forthcoming from India. 

Nursi Joshi concluded by telling me that the 
instance of Ketu in the twelfth division is exceed- 
ingly rare, and that the only other such case of 
which he was aware was that of H.H. the Gaek- 
wad of Baroda. 

Thus it came about that I have on numerous 
occasions suffered set-backs through 
misunderstanding only to secure an' even more 
advantageous position within a short while. My 
ideals, motives, and activities have not only been 
misjudged by outsiders but also by my family 
circle, who certainly should have known better. [ 
have been blamed with distressing frequency for 
fancied wrongs which time invariably proved the 
result of none of my doings. 

Due to its somewhat unusual aspects, my 
horoscope has been’ carefully studied by 
astrologers on three continents. Several years 
ago. It was published in a number of astrological 
journals. 


243 


Among those to whom I am especially in- 
debted for convincing proof of Astrology's validity 
are: 


The Sage of Lucknow; Narsf Joshi, Hareshwar 
Mahadev Joshi Jivanram Chithnavis (all three of 
Bombay ), Alan Leo and Robert King of London; 
Swami Rajah of Atlantic City: Belle Bart and 
Theodore Nyland of New York. 


— Reproduced from THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE 
(October 1948 and November 1948.) 


In America there is the best scope for the caste (real 
Jjaat§ to develop, and so the people are great. Every Hindu 
knows tht astrologers try to fix the caste of every boy or 
girl as soon as she is born. That is the real caste—the 
individuality, and Jyotisha (Astrology) recognises that, and 
we can only rise by giving it full sway again. 


— Swamt Vivekananda (Complete Works Vol. IV 
page 372-373) 


244 


CHAPTER TWELVE 


SRI AUROBINDO ON ASTROLOGY 


edited by K. Channabasappa 


ASTROLOGY is in the general mind as- 
sociated with that class of subjects which goes 
under the name of the occult.and along with 
others of its class-it has long been discredited by 
modern “enlightenment", one does not quite know 
on what gtounds or with what rational justifica- 
tion. It has its psychic and mystical side, but 
that Is not its ordinary presentation; there it 
claims to be a science like any other with fixed 
processes and an exact and definite system of 
rules which ought to be perfectly capable of 
verification or of disproof by experiment and in- 
duction like any othere science. Its basis Is 
astronomical and mathematical, Its data perfectly 
open and positive and in no way hidden or oc- 
cult,nor does it at all shrink back from the test 
or hide itself in secrecy and mystery. It does not 
indeed give ordinarily the why, but only the how 
of the causes and effects it professes to establish, 
but so It Is with all other sciences; they do not 
give the reason for things, but only their proces- 
ses. 


Yet Astrology is supposed at some indefinite 
time in the march of human mind to have been 
exploded along with such things as witchcraft 
and demonology. not to speak of the existence of 


245 


spirits and the immorality of the soul — and 
there is a sort of idea that it has been disproved 
and therefore put aside as a superstition which 
no reasonable man can even look at except with 
a lofty disdain, much less stoop to investigate 
with an open mind its truth or falsity. 


Still the anathema of science has not been 
able to destroy it. In Europe it has revived, and 
in India it has always survived. It is not indeed 
the habit of educated Indians to profess explicitly 
their belief in it; they fight shy of that as a rule, 
but it is largely consulted by numbers of them, 
as also by many Europeans. This is an 
anomalous position which ought to be corrected. 
Either Astrology is a true science and should be 
investigated, proved. improved where defective 
and generally rehabilitated in opinion, or else it 
is a pseudo-sience and should be investigated 
and disproved so as to cut the ground away final- 
ly from all secret belief or open credulity. 


As a matter of fact Astrology has never been 
scientifically disproved. nor has any rational 
ground ever been advanced for treating it as a 
pseudo-science. It simply came to be assumed at 
a certain period and under certain intellectual in- 
fluences that it was a childish superstition. Or if 
there were any grounds,then it was left aside be- 
cause astrologers were charlatans, because many, 
perhaps most predictions went wrong, but most 
of all because it was thought that in the nature 
of things, in any rational theory of the universe 
the planets simply could not have any influence 


246 


on our characters, lives and actions. None of 
those grounds are sufficient. 1f many astrologers 
are charlatans, so also have there been many 
quacks in the field of medicine; at one time in- 
deed not only did they pullulate; but the system 
of medicine itself seemed so defective that there 
were plenty of clear and enlightened minds who 
were inclined with Moliere to denounce the whole 
thing as a gross pseudo-science, an elaborate and 
solemn system of ignorance, humbug and quack- 
ery. Supposing that view had prevailed It could 
not. merely because men are too vitally interested 
in healing their ailments and preserving their 
bodies and know no other way of doing it, that 
would not have done away with the truth under- 
lying the science. 


That many predictions go wrong, proves 
nothing essentially, against Astrology any more 
than the constant failure of doctors to heal dis- 
eases proves anything essential against their 
science. The first reason of this failure may be 
that a number of practising: astrologers are either 
charlatans who speak to please their clients 
rather than predict by scientific rule—of that 
kind there are perhaps many—or else inefficient 
and ignorant men who practise only by rule of 
thumb, perfunctorily and with a main eye upon 
their fees. But if even capable astrologers fail 
often, that also only proves that either the 
science or their way or treating it is largely em- 
pirical or that some of its rules and theories may 
be errors. But every science has to pass through 
its empirical stage and some—as again, the 


247 


science of medicine have hardly emerged from it, 
and every science too burdens itself in its 
progress with false generalisations, incorrect 
theories and imperfect rules which have after- 
wards to be discarded or amended. As the main 
point in medicine is whether herbs and metals 
and other remedies have or have not certain ef- 
fects on the body and whether their working can 
be substantiated by experience in a_ sufficient 
number of cases to establish a regular relation of 
cause and effect so it is in Astrology with the 
fundamental question of planetary influences 
upon earth and its creatures. 


The apriori argument from the rational theory 
of the universe cannot stand. There is nothing 
essentially irrational in the Idea that in this solar 
system, so closely linked together, there may be 
mutual influences -of all the planets upon each 
other or that the beings of a particular planet are 
powerfully influenced..or even dominated by in- 
fluences from the others. The question remains, 
the apriori rationality being admitted or at least 
not summarily dismissed, first, whether it is so 
in fact and secondly, how far those influences go 
and of what nature they are. Astrology affirms 
that they not only effect our bodies, but also our 
psychical being. if matter and mind were entirely 
independent entities having no influence or deter- 
mining effect upon each other, then such a result 
could not be: but that is not the case. According 
to the materialistic view of the universe which 
claims to be the sole rationalistic view, mind is 
itself an effect of matter and all its states and 


248 


movements are determind by matter. There is 
nothing then impossible, planetary influence 
being once admitted, in the action of material 
bodies producing psychical conditions on the 
earth and thereby determining our psychical 
states and movements. In a more truly rationalis- 
tic view mind and matter are always influencing 
and determining each other; here too. given a 
universal mind and matter so acting upon in- 
dividual matter and mind, the movements of the 
planetary system may be one or even the first 
nodus of their activities, and the assertions of 
Astrology become at least primarily credible. 


Further. Astrology affirms that these influen- 
ces determine the whole course of our lives and 
that the all-important element is time. That 
raises the major question of the influence of Time 
upon human beings and events; does Time deter- 
mine the course of our lives and the states of our 
being and if so, how-far and in what way? Or to 
put the question more precisely, as itis raised by 
Astrology. do or can the conditions reigning at 
given critical time, in this case the moment of 
birth, determine our physical and psychological 
conditions and the whole course of our future 
lives, or determine them to any considerable ex- 
tent? And are the relative movements and there- 
fore the mutual positions of the Sun and planets 
with regard to the earth and each other either the 
nodus or in some way the effective signs of these 
determinations? And, secondly, do the develop- 
ing time conditions which come afterwards, by 
themselves or viewed in reference to the original 


249 


conditions determine from moment to moment, 
from time to time the subsequent evolution of our 
primary physical and psychological conditions 
and the course of lmked and successive cir- 
cumstances which make up the history of our 
lives, and if so, again, are the relative movements 
and mutual positions of the Sun and planets at 
any given time the nodus or the effective signs of 
this late determination also? Can they therefore 
be taken for all practical purposes as deter- 
minants, or at any rate as sure signs by which 
the determinations of our life and being can be 
discovered? That is the question which Astrology 
raises, and it is evidently a perfectly legitimate 
and rational question: nor can we on a priori 
grounds condemn and put away an affirmative 
answer, which is based upon past expirence sys- 
tematised into rules and theortes, as a supersti- 
tion or a childish folly. Granted that in things 
here there is a chain of cause and effect or at 
least, if causality is disputed, of antecedent con- 
dition leading upto subsequent condition— and 
that if and so far as we know that chain, scien- 
tific prediction becomes in that proportion po.s- 


Ancient Prophecies 

There have been many occasions in the past 2,000 
years when astrological predictions have come true. Hip 
pocrates predicted a plague at Athens, and a plague swept 
the city, Alexander the Great was warned by astrologers to 
flee from the walls of Babylon where his evil star prevailed, 
but like Hitler he took their advice only when it snited htm, 
entered the city, and met his end. 


Courtesy: Seeing into the Future by Harvey Day 


250 


sible— two propositions which, unless we deny 
determination altogether, it would be difficult to 
dispute— there Is no Inherent Improbability in 
the clue to happenings, human and other, on the 
planets being found in the motions of those 
planets. Astronomy is in a sense the primary 
physical science, for the first facts which give all 
the others their field are astronomical facts; it 
may well be that in the psycho- physical field the 
same rule holds and that there the first facts 
may be astrological. 

The a priori objections disappearing, the next 
step is to ask ourselves whether there is a suffi- 
cient prima facte empricical case for inquiring 
into the actual truth of Astrology. This at 
present depends upon the experience of isolated 
individuals, a very unsatisfactory basis. But if 
this experience could be collected, sifted and 
published, I believe it would he found that a for- 
midable prima facie case exists in favour of 
Astrology, much stronger than that which en- 
couraged the Society for Psychical Reasearch to 
carry on its work in another psycho- physcial 
field to such important conclusions. I may state 


Astrology Is Science 
Mr. Morarjl Desa] observes thus about Astrology: 


I firmly believe that the law of Karma governs the 
universe and therefore 1 believe in Astrology as a science. 
But I wonld not go so far as to claim that there are many 
practising astrologers who can make absolutely correct 
forecasts. Accurate predictions are indeed possible... 


251 


my own experience in the matter in the belief, 
justified by many instances, that it is only typical 
of the experience of hundreds of others. My first 
accidental contact with an Indian astrologer was 
not encouraging. This gentlemen was the most 
accomplished thought-reader I have ever seen: 
for he asked me to think my question without 
speaking it and not only successfully named the 
unspoken question I had fixed on. but three 
others which had crossed my mind, one of them 
only in the merest flash and without leaving any 
impression behind; this he pretended to do by 
mathematical calculation, an operation which I 
took leave to regard as humbug or professional 
parade. For when it came to his answers, I 
found that he was still doing thought-reading and 
not Astrology: he simply echoed the hopes or 
thougts in my mind and his predictions did not 
come within one hundred miles of the truth. 
Other practioners I have found to belong, a few 
plainly to the class of merely flattering charlatans 
but most to the inefffeient who read by rule of 
thumb and have made no profund study of their 


One's destiny Is the sum total of the consequences of 
one's past actions or karmas. If we believe in the dynamie 
law of karma, we must admit that one's destiny is unal- 
terable, unavoidable. Modem physical selence, too. tells us 
that action and reaction are equal and opposite, that noth- 
ing" in this world js lost, but only undergoes a change of 
form or value. It stands to reason thus that one's destiny is 
capable of being charted in advance by a good astrologer. 


Coutesy: Times of India (11-4-65, 


252 


science. On the othere hand, with capable 
astrologers the results have been often of such 
a remarkable accuracy as to put quite aside 
any possibility of chance hit, mere coin- 
cidence, intelligent prevision or any of the 
current explanations. I may instance the father 
of a friend of mine, a deep student of the science 
but not a professional, who predicted accurately 
the exact year, month. hour and even minute of 
his own death. In my own case accuracy was 
hampered by the inability to fix the precise mo- 
ment of my birth; still some of the results were 
extraordinary. Two may be mentioned, from one 
and the same astrologer, which related to my 
public career. One. given when I had: not yet 
plunged into the political vortex and my then 
obscure personality was quite unknown to the 
astrologer, predicted as an inevitable certitude of 
the future a political struggle with powerful non- 
Indian adversaries during which for a time even 
my life would fall under the shadow of danger. 
The other, given at the time of my first prosecu- 
tion in the Bande Mataram case, predicted three 


India And Western Science 

“If we are to live at all, we must resume India's great, 
interrupted endeavour. We must take up boldly and ex- 
ecute thoroughly, in the individual and in the society, In the 
spiritual and in the mundane Hife, in philosophy and 
religion, in art and literature, in thought, In political and 
economic and social formulation, the full and unlimited 
sense of her highest spirit and knowledge. And if we do 
that, we shall find tha! the best of what comes to usdraped 


253 


successive criminal trials im each of which the 
prosecution would fail. I may instance also two 
predictions by the book in which  slokas from 
Sanskrit astrological writings indicating the 
results of certain conjunctions or planetary posi- 
tions were shown to be aplicable to my horo- 
scope. One foretold specific chronic illnesses for 
the body of which there was no sign at the time, 
but long afterwards they put in their unexpected 
appearance and _ persisted. Another Indicated 
very very precisely that one of my future activities 
would be to found a new spiritual philosophy and 
Its discipline; at that time I had no knowledge of 
philosophy or Yoga and no turn or inclination in 
my mind which could make the realisation of this 
prediction at all probable. These are only the 
most precise examples out of a number. Suppos- 
ing all well-authenticated evidence of the kind 
were to be collected, I am convinced there would 
be an overwhelmingly strong prima facie case and 
even a body of sufficently strong empirical proof 
to establish at least a nucleus of truth in Astrol- 


ogy. 


in Occidental forms, is already implied tn onr own ancient 
wisdom and has there a greater spirit behind tt, a 
profounder truth and self-knowledge and the capactty ofa 
will to nobler and more ideal formations. Only we need to 
work out thoroughly tn life what we have always known in 
spirit. There and nowhere else lies the secret of the needed 
harmony between the essential meaning of our past culture 
and the environmental of our future.” (Yuva Bharatt, 
Madras, Dec 1979.p33). 


— SRI AUROBINDO 


254 


That would be the first step. For if Astrology 
is a science and is to take its proper place. the 
first necessity is to dissipate by an appeal to the 
empirical mind of the general public as well as of 
the sceptical thinker the great mass of unenquir- 
ing prejudice which now exists against it. 


— Reproduced fromTHE ASTROLOGICA MAGAZINE 
February 1975. 


255 


CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
OUTWITTING THE STARS 


“Mukunda, why don't you get an astrological 
armlet?" "Should I. Master? I don't believe in 
Astrology." "It 1s not a question of belief; the 
scientific attitude one should take on any subject 
is whether. it is true. The law of gravitation 
worked as efficiently before Newton as after him. 
The cosmos would be fairly chaotic if its laws 
could not operate without the sanction of human 
belief. 


"Charlatans have brought the ancient steller 
science to its present disrepute. Astrology is too 
vast, both mathematically and philosophically, to 


1 From astronomical references in ancient Hindu litera- 
ture, scholars have been able to ascertain the dates of the 
authors. The scientific knowledge of the rishis was very great; 
in the KaushitakiBrahmanawe find precise astronomical pas- 
sages indicating that tn 3100 B.C. the Hindus were far ad- 
vanced in astronomy, which had a practical value to determin- 
ing the auspicious times for astrological ceremonies. An ar- 
ticle in East-West, February, 1934, says the Jyotish or body 
of Vedic astronomical treatises: "It contains the scientific lore 
that kept India at the forefront of all ancient nations and 
made her the Mecca of seekers after knowledge. Brahmagupta, 
one of the Jyotish works, ts an astronomical treatise dealing 
with such matters as the heliocentric motion of the planetary 
bodies in our solar system, the obliquity of the ecliptic, the 
earth's spherical form, the reflected light of the Moon, the 
earth's daily axial revolution, the presence of fixed stars in the 
Milky Way. the law of gravitation, and other scientific facts 
that dtd not dawn in the Western world until the time of 
Copernicus and Newton’. 


256 


be rightly grasped except by men of profound un- 
derstanding. lf ignoramuses misread the heavens, 
and see there a scrawl instead of a script, that is 
to be expected in this imperfect world. One 
should not dismiss the wisdom with the ‘wise’. 


"All parts of creation are linked together and 
interchange their influences. The balanced 
rhythm of the universe is rooted in reciprocity,” 
my guru continued. "Man, in his human aspect, 
has to combat two sets of forces - first, the 
tumults within his being, caused by the admix- 
ture of earth, water, fire, air, and ethereal ele- 
ments; Second, the outer disintegrating powers of 
nature. So long as man struggles with his mor- 
tality, he is affected by the myriad mutations of 
heaven and earth. 


"Astrology is the study of man's response to 
planetary stimuli. The stars have no conscious 
benevolence or animosity; they merely send forth 
positive and negative radiations. Of themselves, 
these do not help or harm humanity, but offer a 
lawful channel for the outward operation of 
cause-effect equilibrium that each man has set 
into motion in the past. 


The so-called "Arabic numerals," invaluable in the 
development of Western mathematics, came to Europe in the 
ninth century, via the Arabs, from India, where that system of 
notation had been anciently formulated. Further light on 
India's vast scientific heritage will be found in Sir P.C Roy's 
History of Hindu ChemtstryinB.N. Seal's Positive Sciences of 
the Ancient Hindus, in B.K. Sarkar’s Hindu Achievements in 
Exact Sciences and his The Positive Background of Hindu 
Sociology, and U.G. Dutt's Materia Medica of the Hindus. 


2a 


"A child is born on that day and at that hour 
when the celestial rays are in mathematical har- 
mony with his individual karma. His horoscope 
is a challenging portrait, revealing his unalterable 
past and its probable future results. But the 
natal chart can be righly Interpreted only by men 
of Intuitive wisdom; these are few. 


"The message boldly blazoned across the 
heavens at the moment of birth is not meant to 
emphasize fate - the result of past good and evil 
but to arouse man's will to escape for his univer- 
sal thraldom. What he has done, he can undo. 
None other than himself was the instigator of the 
causes of whatever effects are now prevalent in 
his life. He can overcome any limitation, because 
he created it by his own actions in the first place, 
and because he possesses spiritual resources 
that are not subject to planetary pressure. 


"Superstitious awe of Astrology makes one an 
automaton, slavishly dependent on mechanical 
guidance. The wise man defeats his planets 
which is to say. his past - by transferring his al- 
legiance from the creation to the Creator. The 
more he realizes his unity with Spirit, the less he 
can be dominated by matter. The soul is ever 
free; It is deathless because birthless. It cannot 
be regimented by stars. 

"Man Is a soul, and has a body. When he 
properly places his sense of identity, he leaves 
behind all compulsive patterns. So long as he 
remains confused in his ordinary state of 


258 


spiritual amnesia, he will know the subtle fetters 
of environmental law. 

"God is Harmony; the devotee who attunes 
himself will never perform any action amiss. His 
activities will be correctly and naturally timed to 
accord with astrological law. After deep prayer 
and meditation he Is in touch with his divine 
conscousness; there is no greater power than 
that inward protection." 

"Then, dear Master, why do you want me to 
wear an astrological bangle? JI ventured this 
question after a long silence; I had tried to as- 
similate Sri Yukteswar's noble exposition, which 
contained thoughts very new to me. 

"It is only when a traveller has reached his 
goal that he is justified in discarding his maps. 
During the journey, he takes advantage of any 
convenient short cut. The ancient rishis dis- 
covered many ways to curtail the period of man's 
exile in delusion. There are certain mechanical 
features in the law of karma that can be skilfully 
adjusted by the fingerts of wisdom. 

“All human ills arise from some transgression 
of universal law. The scriptures point out that 
man must satisfy the laws of nature, while not 
discrediting the divine omnipotency. “He should 
say: "Lord, I trust in Thee, and know Thou canst 
help me, but I too will do my best to undo any 
wrong [ have done’. By a number of means — by 
prayer, by will power, by yoga meditation, by con- 
sultation with saints, by use of astrological 


259 


bangles — the adverse effects of past wrongs can 
be minimized or nullified. 

"Just as a house may be fitted with a coper 
rod to apsord the shock of lightning, so the bodi- 
ly temple can be protected in certain ways. 


"Electrical and magnetic radiations are cease- 
lessly circulating in the universe; they affect 
man's body for good and ill. Ages ago our rishis 
pondered the problem of combating the adverse 
effects of subtle cosmic influences. The sages dis- 
covered that pure metals emit an astral light 
which is powerfully counteractive to negative 
pulls of the planets. Certain plant combinations 
were also found to be helpful. Most effective of all 
are faultless jewels of not less than two carats. 

The practical preventive uses of Astrology 
have seldom been seriously studied outside of 
India. One little-known fact is that the proper 
jewels, metals and plant preparations are value- 
less unless the required weight is secured and 
unless the remedial agent is worn next to the 
skin.” 

"Sir, of course I shall take your advice and 
get a bangle. I am intrigued at the thought of 
outwitting a planet!" 

"For general purposes I counsel the use of an 
armlet made of gold, silver, and copper. But for a 
specific purpose I want you to get one of silver 
and lead." Sri Yukteswar added careful direc- 
tions. 

"Guruji, what ‘specife purpose’ do you 
mean?" 


260 


“The stars are about to take an ‘unfriendly’ 
interest In you. Mukunda. Fear not; you shall be 
protected. In about a month your liver will cause 
you much trouble. The illness is scheduled to 
last for six months, but your use of an astrologi- 
cal armlet will shorten the period to twenty-four 
days". 

I sought out a jeweller the next day, and was 
soon wearing the bangle. My health was excel- 
lent; Master's prediction slipped from my mind. 
He left Serampore to visit Benares. Thirty days 
after our conversation, I felt a sudden pain in the 
region of my liver. The following weeks were a 
nightmare of excruciating pain. Reluctant to dis- 
turb my guru, I thought I would bravely endure 
my trial alone. 

But twenty-three days of tortue weakened my 
resolution; I entrained for Benares. There Sri 
Yukteswar greeted me with unusual warmth, but 
gave me no opportunity to tell him my woes in 
private. Many devotees visited Master that day, 
just for a a darshanz. Ill and neglected, I sat in a 
comer. It was not until after the evening meal 
that all guests had departed. My guru summoned 
me to the octagonal balcony of the house. 

“You must have come about your liver disor- 
der." Sri Yukteswar's gaze was averted; he walked 
to and fro, occasionally intercepting the moon- 
light. "Let me see. you have been ailing for twent- 
four days, haven't you?" 

“Yes, sir." 

The blessing that flows from the mere sight of a saint. 


261 


"Please do the stomach exercise I taught 
you." 

"If you knew the extent of my _ suffering. 
Master, you would not ask me to _ exercise." 


Nevertheless I made a feeble attempt to obey him. 


"You say you have pain; I say you have none. 
How can such contradictions exist?" My guru 
looked at me inquiringly. 

I was dazed and then overcome with joyful 
relief. No longer could I feel the continuous tor- 
ment that had kept me nearly sleepless for 
weeks; at Sri Yukteswar's words the agony 
vanished as though it had never been. 


I started to kneel at his feet in gratitude, but 
he quickly prevented me. 

"Don't be childish. Get up and enjoy the 
beauty of the moon over the Ganges." But 
Master's eyes were twinkling happily as I stood in 
silence beside him. I understood by his attitude 
that he wanted me to feel that not he. but God, 
had been the Healer. 

I wear even now the heavy silver and lead 
bangle, a memento of that day — long-past, ever- 
cherished — when I found anew that I was living 
with a personage indeed superhuman. On later 
occasions, when I brought my friends to Sri Yuk- 
teswar for healing, he invariably recommended 
jewels or the bangle, extolling their use as an act 
of astrological wisdom. 

I had been prejudiced against Astrology from 
my childhood, partly because I observed that 
many people are sequaciously attached to it. and 


262 


partly because of a prediction made by our family 
astrologer: "You will marry three time, being 
twice a widower." I brooded over the matter, feel- 
ing like a goat awaiting sacrifice before the 
temple of matrimony. 


"You may as well be resigned to your fate", 
my brother Ananta had remarked. Tour written 
horoscope had correctly stated that you would fly 
from home toward the Himalayas during your 
early years, but woud be forcibly returned. The 
forecast of your marriage is also bound to be 
true." 


A clear intuition came to me one night that 
the prophecy was wholly false. I set fire to the 
horoscope scroll placing the ashes in a paper bag 
on which I wrote: "Seeds of past karma cannot 
germinate if they are roasted In the fire, of divine 
wisdom." I put the bag In a conspicuous spot; 
Ananta immediately read my defiant comment. 


“You cannot destroy truth as easily as you 
have burnt this paper Sens "My brother laughed 
scornfully. 


It is a fact that on fais occasions before I 
reached manhood, my family tried to arrange my 
betrothal. Each time I refused to fall in with the 
plans.3 knowing that my love for God was more 
overwhelming than any astrological persuasion 
from the past. 

3 One of the girls whom my family selected as a possible 
bride for me afterward married my cousin, Prabhas Chandra 


Ghosh. He is an officer of the Yogoda Satsanga Society (af- 
filiated with SRF) in India. 


263 


The deeper the Self-realization of a man, the 
more he influences the whole universe by his 
subtle spiritual vibration, and the less he himself 
is affected by the phenomenal flux." These words 
of Master's often returned inspiringly to my mind. 

Occasionally I told astrologers to select my 
worst periods, according to planetary indications, 
and I would still accomplish whatever task 1 set 
myself. It is true that my success at such times 
has been preceeded by extraordinary difficulties. 
But my conviction has always been Justified; faith 
in divine protection, and right use of man's God- 
given will, are forces more formidable than are in- 
fluences flowing from the heavens. 


The starry inscription at one's birth, 1 came 
to understand, is not that man is a puppet of his 
past. lts message is rather a prod to pride: the 
very heavens seek to arouse man's determination 
to be free from every limitation. God created 
each man as a soul, powered with individuality, 
hence essential to the universal structure, 
whether in the temporary role of pillar or 
parasite. His freedom is final and immediate. If 
he so wills; it depends not on outer but inner 
victories. 


Sri Yukteswar discovered the mathermatical 
application of a 24,000-year equinoctial cycle to 
our present age . The cycle is divided into an As- 
cending Arc and a Descending Arc. each of 


4 These equinoctial cycles are expounded in Swami 
Yukteswar's book, The Holy Science (Yogoda Satsanga 
Society, P.O. Ariadah, Dakshineswar, West Bengal, India). 


264 


12,000 years. Within each Arc fall four Yugas or 
Ages, called Kali. Dwapara, Treta, and Satya. cor- 
responding to the Greek ideas of Iron, Bronze, 
Silver, and Golden Ages. 


My guru determined by various calculations 
that the last Kali Yuga or lron Age, of the As- 
cending Arc. started about A.D. 500. The Iron 
age, 1200 years in duration, is a span of 
materialism; it ended about A.D. 1700. That year 
ushered in Dwapara Yuga, a 2,400-year period of 
electrical and atomic-energy development, the age 
of telegraph, radio, airplanes, and other space- 
annihilators. 


The 3,600-year period of Treta Yuga will start 
in A.D, 4,100; its age will be marked by common 
knowledge of telepathic communications and 
other time-annihilators. During the 4,800 years 
of Satya Yuga, final age in an Ascending Arc, the 
intelligence of man will be highly developed; he 
will work in hormony with the divince plan. 


A Descending Arc of 12,000 years, starting 
with a Descending Golden .Age of 4,800 years, 
then begins for the world (in A.D. 12,500); man 
gradually sinks into ignorance. These cycles are 
the eternal rounds of maya, the contrasts and 
relativities of the phenomenal Universes, Men, 
one by one, escape from creation's prison of 


5 The Hindu scriptures place the present world-age as 
occuring within the Kali Yuga of a much longer universal cycle 
than the simple 24,00 year equinoctal cycle with which Sri 
Yukteswar was concerned. The Universal cycle of the scrip- 
tures is 4,300,560,000 years in extent, and measures out a 


265 


duality as they awaken to consciousness of their 
inseverable divine unity with the Creator. 

Master enlarged my understanding not only 
of Astrology but of the world's scriptures. Placing 
the holy texts on the spotless table of his mind, 
he was able to disect them with the scalpel of 
intuitive reasoning, and to separate errors and 
interpretations of the scholars from the truths as 
originally expressed by the prophets. 


(Reproduced from Autobiography ofa Yogi 
Paramahama Yogananda.) 


Day of Creation or the length of life assigned to our planetary 
system in its present form. This vast figure given by the rishis 
is based on a relationship between the length of the solar year 
and a multiple of Pi (3.1416, the ratio of the circumference to 
the diameter of a circle). 


The life span for a whole universe, according to the an- 
cient sears, is 314,159,000,000,000 solar year, or " One Age of 
Brahma". 


The Hindu scriputes declare that an earth such as ours 
is dissolved for one of two reasons; the inhabitants as a whole 
become either completely good or completely evil. The world 
mind thus generates a power that releases the captive atoms 
held together as an earth. 


Dire pronouncements are occasionally published regard- 
ing an imminent “end of the world". Planetary cycles, how- 
ever, proceed according to an orderly divine plan. No carthly 
dissolution {s in sight; many ascending not descending equi- 
noctial cycles are yet in store for our planet tn its present 
form.. 


266 


CHAPTER FOURTEEN 


WRITTEN IN THE STARS 


The cupolas quiver with light in the dazzling 
sunshine, the bathers fill the air with the sounds 
of their matutinal ablution, and the Jumbled, 
Oriental pageant of the water-front and Benares 
shows itself anew to my alien gaze. I idle down 
the Ganges in a heavy Junk, whose prow is 
carved like a cobra's head. I am on the roof of a 
cabin, while the three rowers who are below pull 
their quaint oars. 


A merchant from Bombay is my companion 
and, as he sits next to me, he tells me that he 
intends to retire from trade when he returns to 
that city. He is an extremely pious but equally 
practical man. While laying up treasure in 
heaven, he has not omitted to lay up treasure in 
the bank. I have known him for about a week 
and find him an amiable, genial and friendly per- 
son. 

"I am retiring at the very age which Sudhei 
Babu predicted it would happen" he says, eager 
to explain. 

This odd remark causes me, metaphorically, 
to prick up my ears. 

"Sudhei Babu - who is he?" 

"Do you not know? He is the cleverest 
astrologer in Benares." 

"Oh, just an astrologer!" 1 grunt back a little 
scornfully. 


267 


For I have seen the breed squatting In the 
dust of Bombay's great open space, the Maidan; 
sitting in sultry booths at Calcutta; and 
foregathering wherever travellers pass through 
every little town I have visited. Most of them are 
dirty-looking creatures, with wild locks of un- 
kempt hair. The recognizable print of supersiti- 
tion and ignorance rests upon their faces. Their 
stock-in-trade usually consists of two or three 
greasy, well-fingered books and some vernacular 
almanac filled with incomprehensible signs. I 
have often cynically thought of their eagerness to 
direct the fortunes of other persons, when they 
themselves seemed outside the pale of good for- 
tune. 


“L am somewhat surprised at you. Is it safe 
for a business man to trust himself to the twin- 
kling of the stars. Don't you think common sense 
is a better guide?" I add. in the tone of one giving 
good advice. 

The other man _ half-shakes his head and 
smiles tolerantly at me. 

"How, then, do you explain the prediction of 
™y retirement? Who could have guessed that I 
would give up trade at such an exceptionally 
early age. for as you know I am only a year past 
forty?" 

“Coincidence, perhaps." 

“Very well; let me tell you a little story. 
Some years ago I met a great astrologer in Lahore 
and started a large business negotiation on his 
advice. At that time I was in partnership with an 


268 


older man. My partner asserted that the affair 
was far too risky and he refused to agree with 
me. Because he would not enter Into the transac- 
tion we dissolved partnership. I carried the busi- 
ness through alone. It was a startling success 
and brought me a small fortune. Yet unless the 
Lahore astrologer had strongly supported me, I, 
too. would have feared to enter the affair." 

Then you hold the opionion that..... : 

"Our lives are ruled by destiny and that 
destiny is shown by the positions of the stars!" 

I slip my objections to his statement upon 
the thread of an impatient gesture. 

The astrologers I have seen in India are such 
an illiterate, stupid-looking lot. that I cannot im- 
agine what beneficial advice they can _ give 
anyone." 

"Ah, you must not confuse a learned scholar 
like Sudhei Babu with those ignorant men you 
have encountered. Truly, those men are char- 
latans but he is a highly intelligent Brahmin who 
lives in a large house of his own. He has made a 
deep study of the subject for many years and 
possesses many volumes of great rarity." 


It suddenly occurs to me that my companion 
Is no fool. He belongs to that type of modem 
Hindu who is enthusiastically practical and who 
does not hesitate to avail himself of the latest 
resources of Western Invention. He is even ahead 
of me in some ways. He carries a magnificent 
moving-picture camera on the boat, whereas I 
can boast of nothing better than a humble pocket 


269 


kodak; his servant produces a thermos flask and 
pours out a cooling drink, thus rebuking my la- 
mentable forgetfulness of an excellent travelling 
requisite; and | know from his talk that he makes 
more use of the telephone when in Bombay than 
I have ever cared to do when in Europe. And yet 
he believes in astrology! I puzzle over the incon- 
gruous elements which compose his character. 

"Let us understand each other. You fully ac- 
cept the theory that every man's career and every 
worldly event is controlled by stars whose dis- 
tance from our planet is so great that it beggars 
imagination?" 

"Yes, I do," he answers quietly. 

I shrug my shoulders, not knowing what to 
say. 

He assumes an apologetic air. 

"My dear sir, why not go and try him for 
yourself? You say in your country, The proof of 
the pudding is in the eating'. Find out what 
Sudhei Babu can discover about you. I have no 
use for the cheap charlatans myself, but | believe 
in that man's genuineness." 

“H'm. I am sceptical about those who make a 
business of foretellelng. Still, I shall take you at 
your word. Will you take me to this astrologer?" 

"Certainly, Come and have tiffin with me 
tomorrow and then we shall visit him." 

We continue to float by broad palaces and 
old temples and little shrines bespattered with 
yellow flowers. I look indifferently at the broad 


270 


stone steps crowded with bathing pilgrims and 
reflect that, though science rightly flatters itself 
with having put a check to superstition, 1 have 
yet to learn that a scientific attitude should put a 
check to investigation. If my ¢ompanion can 
produce some evidential facts for the marked feel- 
ing of fatalism which he shares in common with 
most of his countrymen. I shall study them with 
an open mind. 


The next day my amiable acquaintance 
brings me to a narrow, archaic street which runs 
through a heap of flat-topped houses. We stop 
before a rambling, old. stone-built stucture. He 
leads the way through a dark, low-roofed ‘passage 
and then we climb several stone steps, which are 
no wider than a man's body. We pass through a 
narrow room and find ourselves on the veranda 
of a spacious inner courtyard, around which the 
house has been built. 


A chained dog sights us and furiously barks 
a challenge. 


An array of large pots, each holding some 
tropical flowerless plant, spreads along the veran- 
da. I follow my companion into a dark, frowning 
room and nearly fall over some broken flag-stones 
at the threshold. As I stoop, 1 notice that loose 
earth lies sprinkled in the room as freely as it is 
sprinkled on the veranda floor. Does the 
astrologer find relief from his starry studies in 
plant-growing, 1 wonder. 


The other man shouts for the astrologer, 
whose name is echoed back to us by the ancient 


271 


walls. We wait for two or three minutes and as- 
sist the dog. by further calls for the astrologer, to 
punctuate the silence of this seemingly deserted 
building. I begin to think that we have come on a 
fruitless errand, when the sound of someone stir- 
ring descends from an upper floor. Soon after I 
hear shuffling steps approach our room. 


The figure of a slight man, carrying a candle 
In one hand and Jangling a bunch of keys in the 
other, appears on the threshold. There follows a 
brief conversation in the semi-gloom and _ the 
astrologer unlocks another door, through which 
we all pass. He draws aside two heavy curtains 
and opens the shutters which cover tall balcony 
windows. 

The astrologer's face is suddenly illuminated 
by the light which falls through the opened win- 
dows. I see a man who seems more like a figure 
from the ghost world than one of flesh and blood. 
Never before have I seen anyone so" sicklied o'er 
with the pale cast of thought". His death-like 
coutenance, incredibly lean body and unearthly 
slow movments combine to produce a weird ef- 
fect. The whites of his eyes are so pronounced as 
to heighten this impression, their whiteness offer- 
ing a strong contrast to the Jet-black pupils. 


He takes his seat at a large table, whose sur- 
face is littered with papers. I discover that he 
speaks tolerably good English, yet it is only after 
some persuasion that I can induce him to carry 
on a direct conversation without the afd of a 
third party as interpreter. 


272 


"Please understand that | come as an en- 
quirer, not as a believer," I begin. 

He nods his thin head. 

“Yes, I shall cast your horoscope and then 
you must tell me if you are satisfied." 


"What is your fee?" 


"] have no fixed charge. Some people of posi- 
tion pay me sixty rupees; others pay me twenty 
rupes. I leave the amount to you". 

I proceed to make it clear to him that, before 
we bother about the future, I want to test his 
knowledge of the past. He agrees. 


"For a while he busies himself with calcula- 
tions over my birth date. After ten minutes he 
stoops to the floor behind his chair and searches 
among a disorderly pile of yellowed papers and 
palm-leaf manuscripts. Finally he draws out a lit- 
tle bundle of oblong, time-stained slips. He 
sketches a queer diagram on a sheet of paper 
and says: c 

This is a chart of the heavens at the time 
you were born. And these Sanskrit texts explain 
the meaning of every part of the chart. Now. I 
shall tell you what the stars declare." 

He scrutinizes the diagram with minute care, 
referes to one of the slips, and speaks again, in 
that low, emotionless voice which befits his per- 
sonality so well. 

"Your are a writer from the West? Am 1 cor- 
rect?" 

I nod in agreement. 


273 


He tells me thereafter about my youth and 
describes in quick succession a few happeings of 
the earlier years of my life. In all, he gives me 
seven important points about my past. Five of 
them are broadly correct, but the other two are 
utterly wrong. Thus I am able to check up on the 
value or worthlessness of his powers. The hones- 
ty of the man is transparent. 1 am already con- 
vinced that he is incapable of deliberate decep- 
tion. A 75% success in an initial test in startling 
enough to show that Hindu Astrology calls for in-; 
vestigation, but it also indicates that the latter is 
no precise, infallible science. 


Once again Sudhei Babu burrows among his 
scattered papers and then describes my character 
with a fair degree of accuracy. After that he*pic- 
tures the mental capacities which have brought 
me to follow a profession congenial to them. Here 
again, when he lifts his intellectual head and 
asks, "Have I read correctly?" I cannot dispute 
his words. 


He shuffles his papers, silently studies the 
diagram, and begins to speak of the future. 

The world will become your home. You shall 
travel far and wide, yet always you will carry a 
pen and do your writing work.” And in this strain 
he discourses of what is yet to be. But I can run 
no investigating rule over his prophecies. sot am 
content to leave them where I find them - written 
in the stars! 


1 One of his predictions, which | had instantaneously and scep- 


tically dismissed as a ridiculous impossibility, has now received 
ample confirmation. Bui a second event has failed to mature at 
the dale he gave for it. The others still wait for time's comment. 


274 


¢ With his last words he again asks if I am 
satisfied. His fairly correct description of my past 
forty years on this amazing planet; his almost 
completely successful effort to show me my men- 
tal self these things silence the criticisms which I 
have come prepared to utter." 

I want to ask myself, "Is this man merely 
drawing a bow at a venture? Is he doing nothing 
more than a bit of smart guess work?" But 1 
must candidly confess that his prognostictions 
impress me. Yet time alone can tell whether there 
is any worth in them or not. 


is my western attitude toward the dark ques- 
tion of fate to tumble about me like a thouse of 
thin cards? What can I say about Ithe matter? 1 
move over to the window and stand there, staring 
out at the opposite house and jingling the silver 
rupees in my pocket. Finally I return to my seat 
and question the Astrologer. 


"Why should it seem impossible to you that 
such distant stars can influence the lives of 
men?" he rejoins softly. Do not the tides respond 
to the distant moon in their ebb and flow? Does 
not the body of woman undergo a change every 
lunar month? Does not the absence of the Sun 
make men more liable to depressed moods?" 

"Quite so. But that is a far cry from asserting 
the claims of astrology. Why should Jupiter or 
Mars care two annas whether I meet with 
shipwreck or not?" 

He looks at me with an unruffled face. 


275 


"It is better that you regard the planet as 
being only symbols which stand in the sky; it is 
not they which really influence us, but our own 
past." He replies. "You will never understand the 
reasonable nature of astrology unless you accept 
the doctrine that man is born again and again , 
and that his fate follows him with every birth. If 
he escapes the results of his evil actions in one 
birth, they will punish him in his next; and if he 
does not retrieve a due reward for his good ac- 
tions in one lifetime, he will surely retrieve it in 
the next. Without this doctrine of the continued 
return of man's soul to this earth until such time 
as it becomes perfect, the changing fortunes of 
different persons would seem the result of mere 
chance or blind luck. How can that be allowed by 
a Just Deity? No — it is our belief that when a 
man dies, his character, desires, thoughts and 
will continue to exist until they enter a body of 
flesh once more and come among us in the form 
of a new-born baby. The good or evil actions 
committed In the former birth will be suitably 
rewarded or punished in the present or even fu- 
ture births. This is how we explain fate. When I 
said that you would be shipwrecked one day and 
in grave danger of drowning. that is the fit des- 
tiny which God. in His hidden justice, has por- 
tioned out to you because of something wrong 
which you did in a former birth. It Is not the 
planets which force you into shipwreck, but the 
inescapable results of your former actions. The 
planets and their positions only act as a record of 
this destiny; why they should do so I cannot 


276 


say. No man's brain could ever have Invented 
astrology; It came to us from long ago, when it 
was revealed for man's benefit by the great seers 
and sages of ancients times." 

As I listen to this plausible pronouncement. I 
hardly know what comment to make. He would 
bind one's soul and fortune to the stake of fate, 
but no healthy westerner will let himself be 
despoiled of the prized possession of free will. 
What inhabitant of the energetic Occident can 
wax enthusiastic over this belief that it is des- 
tiny, and not choice, which directs him to take 
his steps? I gaze in bewilderment at this lean 
dreamer, this sallow wanderer through * remote 
signs of the zodiac. "Do you know". I tell him, 
"that in some parts of the South astrologers rank 
next to the priests, and that nothing of any mag- 
nitude can be done without previously consulting 
them? We Europeans would laugh at such a post- 
tion, for we do not look kindly upon predictive 
methods. We lke to think that we are free in- 
dividuals and not the hapless victims of an inex- 
orable destiny." 

The astrologer shrugs his shoulders. 

"In one of our old books, the Hitopadesa, it is 
declared: ‘No one is capable of opposing the 
predestination of fate, which are written in the 
foreheads of men." He lets his words sink in. 
Then he continues: 

"What can you do? We must bear with the 
the fruit of our actions." But I am dubious about 
this statement and express my feeling. The 


277 


prophet of personal fortunes rises from his chal. 
I take the hint and prepare to leave*him. He mur- 
murs musingly: 

"All is in the power of God. Nothing can es- 
cape Him- Who of us Is really free? Whither can 
we go where God is not?" 

At the door he adds hesitatingly: 

"If you wish to come again we may talk fur- 
ther on these matters." 

I thank him and accept the invitation. 

“Verly well. I shall expect you tomorrow, after 
the Sun has gone down, about the hour of six." 

Next day I return with the dusk to the 
astrologer's house. 1 have no intention of accept- 
ing all that he tells me, but neither have 1 formed 
any plans for rejection. I come to listen, possibly 
to learn, though the latter rests on how far his 
statements can be verified by experiment. And at 
this time I am ready enough to make experi- 
ments, but only if sufficiently strong reasons can 
be given for them. Yet Sudhei Babu's reading of 
my horoscope has stirred me to the perception 
that Hindu astrology is not superstitious non- 
sense, and that it may well warrant a deeper in- 
vestigation. That thought represents the limit of 
my present attitude. 

We sit facing each other at his large writing- 
table. A paraffin lamp throws a dim light upon 
the scene. Millions of other Indian homes are 
being lit to-night in the same way. 


278 


"I have fourteen rooms in this house." the 
astrologer tells me. They are filled with ancient 
manuscripts, which are mostly written in 
Sanskrit. That explains why I need such a large 
house, although I Mve alone. Come and see my 
collection." 

He removes the hanging lamp and leads the 
way into another room. Open boxes are ranged 
around the walls. I peer inside one of them and 
find it full of books and papers. Even the floor of 
the room is hidden under a multitude of paper, 
bundles of palm-leaf manuscripts and _ books 
whose covers are discoloured with age. I take a 
small bundle in my hand; each leaf is covered 
with incomprehensible, faded characters. We go 
from room to room and find the same scene 
everywhere. The astrologer's library appears to be 
in a state of hopeless disorder, but he assures 
me that he is familiar with the whereabouts of 
every book and paper. It seems to me that his 
house has gathered the wisdom of Hindustan. 
Surely much of the strange lores of India is con- 
tamed in the almost undeciperable pages of these 
ancient rolls of manuscript and in these Sanskrit 
books! We return to our chairs and the other 
man informs me: 

"Nearly all my money has been spent in 
buying those manuscripts and books. Many of 
them are very rare and cost me large sums. So it 
Is that I am very poor to-day." 


"What subjects do they deal with?” 


279 


They deal with human life and _ divine 
mysteries, while many are concerned with astrol- 
ogy" 

Then you are also a philosopher!" 

His thin mouth relaxes into a half-smile. 

“A man who is not a good philosopher will 
make a poor astrologer." 

"If you will pardon me for saying so, 1 hope 
you do not overstudy all these books. I was 
shocked at your pallor when I first met you." 

That fs not surprising." he replies calmly. "1 
have not eaten for six days." 

I express my conceren. 

"It is not a question of money. The woman 
who comes every day to cook for me is away ill. 
She has been away for six days." 

Then why not call in another woman?" 

He shakes his head firmly. 

"No my food must not be cooked by a lower 
caste woman. I would rather not eat for a month 
than permit that to happen. I must wait till my 
servant's health is restored. But 1 expect her to 
return in a day or two." 

1 peer at him Intently and notice that he 
wears the sacred thread of The Sons of Brahma." 
The triple cord of woven linen which nestles 
under his chin is placed around the neck of-every 
Brahmin baby and is never to be removed till 
death. So he is a Brahmin. 


280 


. "Why trouble yourself with a superstitious 
caste restriction” 1 urge. "Surely your health is 
more important than that!" 


"It is not superstition. Everyone gives out a 
magnetic influence which is quite real, even 
though the Instruments of your Western science 
have not yet discovered it. The cook who prepares 
food throws her influence into it, unconsciously 
of course. A cook of low character will thus taint 
the food with bad magnetism, which passes into 
the person who eats the food." 


"What a strange theory!" 

"But it is true." 

I change the subject. 

"How long have you been an astrologer?" 


"For nineteen years. [ took up the profession 
after my marriage." 


"Ah, I understand." 


"No. I am not a widower. Shall I explain? 
When | was a youth of thirteen 1 prayed often to 
God for knowledge, and so was led to various 
people who taught me and to different books. I 
became so fascinated by study that I would sit 
up reading all day and far Into the night. My 
parents arranged a marriage for me A few days 
after we were married, my wife got angry with me 
and said: I have married a human book!’ On the 
eighth day she ran away with the man who used 
to drive our carriage.” 


Sudhei Babu pauses. I cannot help smiling at 
his wife's caustic comment, though her speedy 


28! 


elopement must have created a sensation in con- 
servative India. But the ways of women are tor- 
tuous and beyond the compass of a man's mind. 


"After a while I recovered from the shock,” he 
continues, “and forgot her. All my emotions were 
blotted out. I went deeper than ever into the 
study of astrology and the divine mysteries. It is 
then that I took up my greatest study, the book 
of Brahma Chinta.” 


"Perhaps you will tell me what that book is 
concerned with?" 


The title can be translated as Divine Medita- 
tion, or as The Quest of Brahma, or even as God- 
knowledge. The entire work contains several 
thousand pages, but the part I study is only a 
section. It took me nearly twenty years to collect 
even that, because it exists only in scattered 
parts here and there. I have slowly obtained 
these different parts through agents in the 
various provinces of India. There are twelve chief 
divisions among its subjects, and many _ sub- 
divisions. The chief topics are philosophy, astrol- 
ogy. Yoga, life after death, and other deep mat- 
ters." 


"Do you know if there is any English transla- 
tion of book?" 

He shakes his head. 

"I have never heard of one. Few, even, are 
the Hindus who know of the existence of the 
book. Hitherto, it has been jealously guarded 
and kept secret. It came originally from Tibet, 


282 


where it is looked upon as very sacred and only 
chosen students are allowed to study tt.” 

"When was it written?" 

"It was composed thousands of years ago by 
the sage Bhrigu, who lived so long ago that I can- 
not give you the date. It teaches a method of 
yoga which is quite different from all others 
which exist in India. You are interested in Yoga 
are you not?" 

"How do you know that?" 

For answer, Sudhei Babu quietly produces 
the chart which he constructed around my birth- 
date, and moves his pencil among the strange 
glyphs which represent planetary configurations 
and zodical signs. 

"Your horoscope surprises me. It ts out of 
the ordinary for a European, and not even a com- 
mon one for an Indian. It snows that you will 
have a great tendency to study Yoga and that you 
will enjoy the favour of sages who will help you to 
delve deeply Into the subject. Yet you will not 
limit yourself to Yoga alone, but become versed in 
other mystic philosophies." 

He pauses and looks at me straight in the 
eyes. I recieve the subtle impression that he is 
about to make a statement which will be tan- 
tamount to a revelation of his inner life. 

I am taken a back at this strange turn of af- 
fairs. I first come to Sudhei Babu to check up on 
the claims of Indian astrology; I come again to 
listen to his further defence of its basic postulate. 


283 


And now he unexpectedly offers to become my 
teacher in Yoga! 

"If you will practise the methods of Brahma 
Chinta you will need no teacher,"he continues. 
"Your own soul will become your teacher." 

I suddenly realize my mistake and wonder 
whether he has read my thoughts. 

"You take me by surprise?" is all I can say. 

“. I have already instructed a few persons in 
this knowledge but I never regard myself as their 
master—only as their brother or friend. So I do 
not undertake to become your teacher In the or- 
dinary sense. The spirit of the sage Bhrigu will 
simply use this body and mind of mine to com- 
municate his teachings to you." 

"I do not understand how you can combine 
the profession of astrology with the teach ing of a 
Yoga system?" 

His thin hands spread themselves upon the 
table. 

"The explanation is this. I live in the world 
and serve it through my work, which happens to 
be astrology. Secondly, I refuse to be looked 
upon as a teacher of Yoga, because in our Brah- 
ma Chinta the only teacher acknowledge is God. 
He is the only preceptor we acknowledge. He, as 
the universal soul, is In us, and will teach us. 
Look on me as a brother, if you wish, but do not 
look on me as a spiritual preceptor. Those who 
have a teacher are too apt to lean on him and to 
depend on him instead of their own soul." 


284 


"And yet you depend on astrology for 
guidance, " I retort quickly, “{nstead of your own 
soul,” 

"You are not right. I never look at fy horo- 
scope now—in fact. I tore It up many years ago." 


I express astonishment at thf{s statement. He 
replies: 

"I have found the light and do not need 
astrology to guide me. but those who still walk in 
darkness find it helpful. I have placed my life 
entirely {fm the Lord's hands. I carry that act to 
{is proper conclusion by giving up all care about 
future or past. Whatever the Lord sends, that I 
accept as His will. I have given my whole self - 
body, mind, actions and feelings - to the will of 
the Almighty." 


Suppose you are threatened with death by a 
murderous ruffian, would you do nothing and ac- 
cept that as God's will?" 


"When any danger arises I know that I have 
only to pray and instantly to receive His protec- 
tion. Prayer is necessary but fear is not. I pray 
frequently and the Lord has’ marvellously 
protected me. Yet I have been through great 
troubles. Through all of them I was conscious of 
His help and I trust Him fully under every event. 
One day you, too, will disregard the future and 
become indifferent to it." 


There will have to be a remarkable change in 
me before that happens." I observe drily. 


That change will surely come" 


285 


"Are you certain?" 

"Yes. you cannot escape your destiny. This 
spiritul rebirth is an event which comes from 
God, whether one looks for it or not." 

"You say strange things, Sudhei Babu." 

The idea of Deity is the unknown factor 
which enters Into so many of my conversations in 
this land. The Hindus are essentially religious 
and I am often tantalized by the familiar way in 
which they introduce mention of God. it is pos- 
sible for them to appreciate the view- point of a 
doubting Westerns . who has surrendered simple 
faith for complex reason? I realize that it will be 
unavailing and suit no practical purpose to throw 
up this question of Deity into agreement with the 
astrologer. 1 have no taste for partaking of any 
theological diet which he will probably piace 
before me, so I turn the subject back to less con- 
troversial ground. 

"Let us talk of other matters, for God and I 
have never met." 

He looks at me fixedly, his peculiar black and 
white eyes searching my soul. 

The chart of your horoscope cannot be 
wrongly drawn or I' might keep back my 
knowledge from an unready mind. But the stars 
move without fault; what you are unable to grasp 
today will linger in your thoughts for a time and 
then return with double force. I[ tell you again 
that I am ready to impart the way of Brahma 
Chinta to you." 

"And [ am ready to learn it.” 


286 


What is the meaning of this mystery oft 
chance, which, by the mere fortune of birth, puts 
one man in dirt-stained rags upon this road and 
another in silken robes in yonder river-side 
palace? Life is truly a dark enigma; I cannot 
comprehend it. 

"Let us sit down here! "" says the astrologer, 
when we reach the Ganges. We sit in the shade 
and look down the river upon the stretch of 
broad stone steps, rambling terraces and jutting 
platforms. Little groups of pilgrims are constant- 
ly coming and going. 

The shapely forms of two slender minarets 
soar gracefully into the pearly sky to'height of 
nearly three hundered feet. They mark the 
charming Mosque of Aurungazeb, that.Muham- 
medan anachronism in this most Hindu of Hindu 
cities. 

But the astrologer has noted my sad _ preoc- 
cupation with beggars, for he turns his sallow 
face towards me and says: 

"India is a poor country." His voice is some- 
what apologetic. "its people have been sunk in 
inertia. The English race possesses some fine 
points and I believe that God brought them to 
our country for its benefit. Before they came life 
was unsafe; law and justice were often set aside. 
It is my hope that the English will not leave 
India; we need their help, but it should be given 
in friendship now, and not by force. However, 
the destiny of both nations must fulfil itself.” 


"Ah, your fatalism returns again!" 


287 


He ignores my comment and falls into 
silence. At length he asks: 


"How can the two peoples avoid God's will? 
Day is ever followed by night, and night is ever 
followed by day. So {ts it with the history of na- 
tions. Great changes brood over the world. India 
has been sunk in sloth and intertia, but she will 
change until she becomes filled with desires and 
ambitions, which ever precede activity. Europe 
burns with practical activities, but the strength of 
its materialism will pass away and it will turn its 
face towards higher ideals. it will happen to 
America. 


i listen in silence. 


"For this reason the philosophic and spiritual 
teachings of our land will travel towards the West 
like a wave of the ocear” he continues gravely. 
"Scholars have already translated some of our 
Sanskrit manuscripts and sacred books into 
Western languages, but many texts are hidden 
away in cave libraries in out of the way parts of 
India, Nepal and Tibet. Those, too, must even- 
tually be made known to the world. The time will 
come before long when the ancient philosophies 
and Inner knowledge of India shall unite with the 
practical sciences of the West. The secrecy of 
past times must give way to the needs of this 
century. I am glad that all this will happen." 


I stare into the greenish water of the Ganges. 
The river is so strangely tranquil that it hardly 
seems to flow. its surface shimmers in the sun- 
light. 


288 


He addresses me yet again: 

The destiny of each race of people must be 
realized, just as the destiny of every person must 
fulfilled. The Lord is omnipotent. Men and na- 
tions cannot escape from their self-earned fate, 
but they may be protected throught their troubles 
and even saved from great dangers." 

And how does one obtain such protection?" 

"By prayer, by keeping a child-like nature 
when one turns towards the Almighty, and by 
remembering Him not on one's lips, but in one's 
heart, especially before one begins any action. In 
happy days try to enjoy them as a blessing of 
God. and in troubles try to think that it is very 
much like a medicine to heal your inner disease. 
Fear Him not, as He is all merciful." 


"You do not believe that God is remote from 
this world, then?" 

"No. God is a spirit which is hidden in 
people and throughout this "universe. If you see 


RAMANA MAHARSHI AND ASTROLOGY 

But Ramana could never let down the devotees who 
had cast their burden on htm. The cases of Jagadisa Sastri 
and Rangayyar are worth recalling on this point. From hts 
death bed Jagadlsa Sastri, "the Sanskrit Pandit of 
Bhagavan's Court” wrote a final appeal tn poem that "he 
would not accept any plea that prarabdha must follow its 
course and if only Bhagavan willed it His grace could cancel 
prarabdha and save him.” Certain death was warded off. 
Rangayyar, a playmate of Ramana at Tiruchupuzi and 
later a staunch devotee, was stricken in a certain period 


289 


any beauty in Nature, a beautiful landscaspe, for 
instance, do not worship it for its own sake, but 
remember that it is beautiful because of the Deity 
present in it. See the Divinity in objects and 
people, and do not be so captivated by the outer 
forms that you forget the inner Spirit which 
gives them life." 


"You mingle your doctrines of fate, religion 
and astrology in a peculiar manner, Sudhei 
Babu." 


He gazes solemnly at me. 


"Why so? These doctrines are not of my 
creation. They have descended to us from the 
most distant ages of the past. The tremendous 
power of destiny, the worship of our Creator and 
the lore of planetary influences were known to 
the earliest peoples. They were not such savages 
as you Westerners imagine. But have 1 not 
prophesied? The west will rediscover before this 
centruy closes how real are these invisible forces 
which enter into the lives of all men." 


by a series of calamities. Astrologers saw no hope for him. 
Ramana not only made him stay with him but also insisted 
on his not leaving his presence for a long time. Once, when 
Rangayyar sought permission to go to the railway station 
and see off his relative, Ramana warned him to came there 
straight “without loitering anywhere or spending the night 
in town."He was thus saved from evil which there would 
have been no escape otherwise. 


It ts not that a specific prayer should always be ad- 
dressed to Ramana. For, fate's blows are quick, sudden 
and totally upredlctable. Then unasked Ramana would be 


290 


“It will be extremely hard for the west to give 
up its inborn notion that a man's will is free to 
make or mar his own life." 

"Whatever happens is by His will and what 
seems like free will really works by His power. 
The Almighty returns to men the good or evil 
fruits of their thoughts and deeds in earlier 
bodies. It is best to accept His will, but one will 
not tremble under sorrows if one looks to him for 
the strength to endure them..." 


(Reproduced from Search in Secret 
India by Paul Brunton) 


there with his helping hand.... While seeing the palm of 
another devotee an eminent palmist wondered how this 
devotee was still alive. ‘Could all my vast knowledge he 
wrong?', wondered the palmist. Then it dawned on him that 
Ramana had saved the life of his devotee even without the 
devotee's knowledge. Whether one prays or not Ramana 
knows what to do when and does it, but would never accept 
credit for it. 


- Courtesy: Divinity Here and Now 
A.R.Watarajan 


291 


CHAPTER FIFTEEN 


ASTROLOGY VERIFIED 


(The following is a reproduction from Encyclopaedia of 
Tales of the chapter on the experiences of the famous his- 
torian Meadows Taylor in Astrology). 


In fhis chapter we shall strive for nothing 
less than to show that a great deal of what is 
boasted as "modern progress* is,in fact retrogres- 
sion. Astrology may have fallen into contempt 
under the influence of improved modern 
science.but undoubtedly the time is coming when 
it will again have the attention it deserves and 
recover its ancient dignity as a sublime science. 
There is supposed by modern astronomers, to be 
some connection, not unlike that attributed by 
the old astrologers, between the position of the 
planets and the fortunes of our earth. Not of 
course, as used to be supposed in Christendom, 
and is still believed in this and other Eastern 
countries, that the lives of individual men are in- 
fluenced, but that the period of perihelion, when 
the superior planets approach the Sun, is one of 
misfortune arising from natural causes. It is al- 
leged that the history of great epidemics, for ex- 
ample, confirms this theory. The view is that at 
such time, the temperature and other conditions 
of our atmosphere are so seriously disturbed as 
naturally to engender irregularities. The next step 
will be for the modern astronomers to discover 


292 


that no mere change in atmosphere temperature 
accompanying the conjunction of planets affects 
human destinies, but a far more (mportant and 
occult power, the magnetic sympathy between the 
various planetary orbs. 


Colonel Meadows Taylor, the well known 
author of "Confessions of a Thug, Tara" who had 
during his long career in India acquired an in- 
timate knowledge of the natives of this country 
and gained their warm affection and respect as 
few Englishmen ever do, thus speaks of his ex- 
perience of Astrology in three instances:- 


"] hear you speak Mahratta, is it so ?" 


"1 am only a beginner" 1 replied; "but 1 dare 
say 1 can follow you* 

"1 am struck with with your face, * he con- 
tinued, "and 1 should like to see your hand and 
cast your horoscope. Do you know when you 
were born?” 


"1 gave him the date, and he proceeded to ex- 
amine first my forehead and then my left hand. 
‘It is a long and happy life on the whole ' he said; 
‘but there are some crosses and some deep sor- 
rows; you are not yet married, but you soon will 
be, and you will have children - not many - some 
of whom you will lose. You will never be rich, nor 
ever poor; and yet much, very much money will 
pass through your hands. You will not now stay 
long here;but after many years you will return 
and rule over us. Fear nothing, your destiny is 
under the planet Jupiter, and you will surely 
prosper.’ 


293 


"He added further details when he brought 
my horoscope some hours later, one which esper 
cially struck me being that 1 should become a 
Rajah, and rule over a large tract of country to 
the south." 


This happened in 1828, and shortly after- 
wards Taylor's employment over the province of 
Nuldersy in which Tuljapoor is situate abruptly 
came to an end. He was some time afterwards ap- 
pointed sole Administrator of the Shorapoor state 
during the minority of the king and subsequently 
when the Berars were ceded along with Nuldroog 
to the English he was appointed Deputy Commis- 
sioner of Berar and made his arrangements ac- 
cordingly,but an express arriving from the Bom- 
bay Government a sudden change was made, and 
he was ordered to take charge of Nuldroog. This 
happened in 1853, and shortly afterwards when 
he visited Tuljapoor he met the old astrologer 
again. He thus writes:- 


"On the day of my arrival, I had just break- 
fasted,and sat down to begin work in my cucher- 
ry, or office tent, when an old Brahmin came in, 
and for a time sat down quietly in a corner 
without speaking. Seeing that 1 was alone, he 
came up to my table, and peering closely into my 
face as he leant upon his staff, he said. 'Are you 
the Taylor Sahib who came here many years 
ago?" 

"When 1] answered that 1 was the same, he 
produced a bundle of old papers, and asked me 
whether 1 recollected them. As 1 looked over 


294 


them. [ saw that I had put my Initial to each of 
them, but forgot at the moment why I had done 
so; for in any case of inquiry or settlement it was 
my habbit to initial all the papers. and I thought 
these documents must relate to some old claim or 
suit to be revised, I was soon undeceived. 


"Have you forgotten sahib’, said the old 
man,‘that [ once cast your horoscope, and told 
you that you would return here to govern us after 
many years? And see! it was true! you have 
come: indeed, there is little difference in the time 
i recorded twenty- five years. I had not the exact 
data, if you remember, that I wanted, you could 
not give it to me.' 


F It was all true enough then I[ was the ‘ruler’ 
over them, and 1 then recollected how strange it 
had appeared to me at the residency when my 
destination was so suddenly altered from Berar to 
these western districts, on the requisition of 
Government of Bombay. The prediction had cer- 
tainly been a strange one. and was as strangely 
fulfilled, even to the very letter of time. 


"And you have been a 'rajah too’, continued 
my old friend, "and have governed a country to 
the south for ten years; that I recored — see 
Sahib, and he pointed excitedly to the document. 
‘See there 1s no mistake there either!’ " 

"Not quite a 'Rajah' " I said laughing, “only 
manager of the country while the Rajah was a 
child". 

‘It was all the Same, "returned the old Brah- 


min; you were all powerful, and just like a 


295 


Rajah, and you governed the people. And you 
have seen sorrow too, Sahib: you were not mar- 
ried when you were here, and now you have lost 
wife and dear children. I hear? I wrote that. I 
saw it all plainly - it is here. And you are not 
rich they tell me? Yet lakhs of rupees have 
passed through your hands. Did I not tell you 
that too?' 

"No, indeed." I replied. "I am not rich; indeed 
much the reverse,and i have had heavy sorrows." 

It could not be avoided’ he said: 'no one 
could have mistaken what I discovered Just 25 
years ago. You were born for work not for the 
indulgence of wealthy idleness, and so you will 
continue. If you want these papers I will give 
them to you; if not, let them remain with me,' 
and so saying he took his leave. He soon after- 
wards went on a pilgrimage to Nasik and there 
died. 


"I did not want the papers, and he kept 
them. I cannot account for his prediction. I only 
relate what happened. I told my old Serishtadar, 
Baba Sahib, about my horoscope and its results; 
but he was not in the least surprised. 


We Brahmins', he said ‘believe in astrology, 
and you English laugh at it, but when one who 
understands the art casts a horoscope and calcu- 
lates it scientifically, the result is seldom wrong. 
You were to have gone to Berar, and yet your fate 
has brought you here to Tooljapur again, at the 
very time appointed, twenty five years after, in 
spite of yourself and also of the Resident. Can 


296 


you doubt, after this? Is there not more in 
astrology than you believe?’ 

I made no comment. How could 1 in the face 
of the simple facts that had occured? 


The second instance is much more Tremark- 
able. Rather a curious incident occurred during 
this year (1846). A Brahmin who had been absent 
from Shorapoor for two years, came to me and 
said that he had cast up the table of my nativity, 
and had brought me the result. As I had never 
seen or heard of him before, and as he himself 
wished to know whether it tallied with my own 
experience hitherto. I was anxious to see the 
paper. which ran after this manner. I had not, 
nor could 1 have given him any sort of informa- 
tion as to the date of my birth or other  par- 
ticulars; as I did not know of his existence. 


From birth under the Sun's _ influence. 

Neither favourable ‘or unfavourable. I was weak 
and delicate, some times ill. Six years 
Next under the Moon influence. Generally 
good: few crosses and those which occurred 
resulting in good. Ten years. 
Next under Venus. Neither favourable nor 
unfavourable. The ordinary run of life. Seven 
years. 
Next under Saturn. Bad, losses. Grief. No 
worldly advancement. No wealth. Never long in 
the same place; unsettled, frequent disappoint- 
ments. Eighteen years. 


297 


Deduct on account pf astrological months five 
years, two months. End of troubled period, thirty 
five years, two months. 

Since when I[ have been under the influence 
of “Brihasput” or Jupiter, of whose sway one year 
is already past, and it will continue from its com- 
mencemnt, sixteen years. 


Add to the previous calculation the one year 
of Jupiter, and the result is - thirty six years; 
which was my exact age. 

The Brahmin enquired whether that was 
about right, as he had been rather bothered in 
the calculations regarding the Moon's influence 
which could not be rendered with as great cer- 
tainty as the others. No one here knew my age, 
that i was aware of, but the result seemed to me 
very curious. I wished to know how the calcula- 
tions had been made; but my friend could only 
explain them in Sanskrit, and this I did not un- 
derstand. I sent the paper home to my father, 
and it afforded a good deal of interest and 
amusement to friends at home." 


The third instance is the most remarkable. 


298 


CHAPTER SIXTEEN 


ASTROLOGY: ITS ORIGIN 


Vedanga Jyotisha : Oldest Tract 


Vedanga Jyotisha is the oldest tract on 
Astrology and found in the Rig and Yajur Vedas. 

The position of the equinoxes given in it 
enables one to fix the date of this treatise of the 
Hindus. This same information also helps us to 
fix the date of the beginnings of the accurate 
visual observations of the sky by the Hindus. Ac- 
cording to Vedanga Jyothisha, Mrigasira, a star 
in the Orion group of stars, was the position of 
the equinox marking the beginning of the spring 
season at about this time. By noting the present 
position of the equinoxes (the spring equinox is 
now in Pisces) and from the rate of their 
retrograde motion of 50 1/4 seconds of angle per 
year, the difference between the present position 
of the equinox and that of the equinoxes as given 
in Vedanga Jyotisha can be worked out and this 
places it at about 4000 years before Christ. In 
other words, Hindu Astrology can be traced to 
this period in India. 


Nakshatras 


Very early in the history of mankind, the 
Vedic Hindus in Bharatavarsha were the first to 
study systematically the movements of the Sun, 
the Moon and other grahas in the sky. These 
movements were studied against the background 


299 


of the stars. The ancient Hindus saw that, night 
after night, the Moon or Chandra, shifted its 
position among the stars. Watching its move- 
ments closely, they saw it came back to its 
original position every 193rd days. So. they 
divided the path of the Moon in the sky into 274% 
equal parts. Constellations on or about the path 
of the Moon were related to the Moon's daily mo- 
tion. Thus the lunar zodiac of the Hindus came 
into being. It was made up of 27 constellations 
corresponding to the star or groups of stars by 
which the Moon was seen on each successive 
night. These stars (may be one or more) were 
called Nakshatras. 


The brightest star of each Nakshatra was 
called Yogatara. 

The Yogatara (or asterism chosen to mark out 
each Nakshatra) was chosen either because it 
was most clearly visible to the naked eye or be- 
cause it had some other feature that attracted 
the eye such as, for example, peculiarity of con- 
figuration. 


These 27 Nakshatras chosen’ lay  ap- 
proximately on the ecliptic, never too faraway 
from it. 

These 27 Nakshatras are: Aswinl, Bharani, 
Krittika, Rohini. Mrigasira, Aridra, Punarvasu, 
Fushyami, Aslesha. Makha, Pubba, Uttara. Hasta, 
Chitta, Swati, Visakha, Anuradha, Jyeshta. 
Moola. Poorvashadha, Uttarashadha, Sravana, 
Dhanishta, Satabhisha, Poorvabhadra, Uttarab- 
hadra and Revati. 


300 


Movement of the Sun 


The ancient Rlshis also saw that the Sun and 
the other grahas never moved very far from the 
course of the Moon. They used this fact to 
regard the 27 divisions in the sky as many mile- 
stones to chart the course of the other grahas. 


They saw that the Sun too apparently moved 
amongst the stars. They noticed that a _ par- 
ticular star which rose or set with the Sun did 
not do so after a certain number of days. So, 
they chalked out the Sun's course and found it 
also had a periodic movement like the Moon's. 
Only the time it took was 12 times that of,the 
Moon's cycle. Therefore 27 lunar constellations 
were divided into 12 Rasis. The Sun took one 
month to cross each Rasi or 2 1/4 Nakshatras. 


Solar Month 


The period taken by the Sun to cross each 
Rasi was called a solar month. 

The solar month was named after the 
asterism in which the Full Moon took place that 
month. The solar month in Mesha when the Full 
Moon occurred in Chltta Nakshatra was called 
Chaitra and so on. 


Lunar Zodiac: Hindu in Origin 


The phenomenon of precession, known in the 
Vedas, was known to the Hindus several cen- 
turies before the Christian era. The Hindus in- 


301 


vented sunya or zero and this was a sensational 
attainment for it "liberated the human intellect 
from the bars of the counting frame". This symbol 
sunya. the sciences of geomeii, trikonameti and 
bijaganiia were carried over by early Arab 
travellers to India to the West. The same Arabs 
also carried the Nakshatra system and the lunar 
zodiac to the West. 


These sciences in the course of their transit 
from India to the West via Arabia acquired new 
names. Geometi hecame geometry, trikonameti 
became €trignomeiry and bijaganiia became al- 
gebra. The Nakshatra system was christened 
Menazil system. They borrowed the system from 
the Hindus and improved upon it calling each 
Nakshatra or lunar mansion Menazil al yamr. 


The Chinese also, one of the oldest civiliza- 
tions. borrowed the lunar zodiac from India call- 
ing it Siew. According to Prof. Weber, there is no 
evidence whatsoever of the lunar zodiac in China 
earlier than 250 B.C. This period in the history 
of Hindu astronomy {s a very late period indeed. 
That clearly proves that the lunar zodiac was 
purely the discovery of the Hindu astronomers. 


Many western historians and their slavish In- 
dian counterparts make the sad mistake of at- 
tributing all knowledge of Astrology and 
astronomy to the Greeks. But the Hindus knew 
and practised Astrology much. much earlier and 
there is evidence of this in Vedic literature. The 
same historians who think Greece and Chaldea 
discovered Astrology unfortunately and _ con- 


302 


veniently overlook the fact that history does not 
admit of intellectual trade or even political Inter- 
course betwen India and Greece till after the date 
of Alexander's entry into India which is about 300 
B.C. That means, their theory that India learnt 
her Astrology from Greece becomes baseless 
and concocted as we have already seen that 
Vedanga Jyotisha 1s at least about = six 
thousand years old. 


The Solar Zodiac: Greek Origin Theory 
Mischievous: 


In one of the hymns in the Rig Veda, the Sun 
is described as the I2 spoked wheel. The 360 
days as well as the same number of nights are 
called his 720 children. The very fact that the 
Hindus could, so early in the history of the 
world, visualise the number of days to a year 
speaks of their astronomical attainments. 


The commentator Sayana explains the 12 
spokes referred to in the sloka as the 12 signs of 
the zodiac. There are the /2 Adityas or solar en- 
tities of the Veda. They are said to be the off 
spring of Adiit meaning endless which means an 
enclosure like the ecliptic. The reference to the 
Adityas is to the manifestations of the same Sun 
in the 12 stages of his journey or simply the 12 
divisions into which the ecliptic is divided. 

The equinoctial and solistical points are im- 
portant points on the ecliptic. In the Vedas these 
poinis are called as the 4 Adityas — Agni, Indra, 
Mitra and Varuna. In different hymns of the Rig 


303 


Veda, \ndra Is always associated with Agni. Agni 
is the point of Intersection of the celestial equator 
and the ecliptic. The Vedic Hindu had a very 
good concept of the equinox, not merely as the 
time when day and night are equal but also as 
the Junction of the ecliptic and equator. 

In the Rig Veda, Agni Is described as the 
leader of the hosts of gods, implying that the year 
begins when the Sun is at the vernal equinox or 
Agni. The 4 Adityas, Agni, Indra, Varuna and 
Mitra, though lords of different signs, are 
described as one in the sense that each can oc- 
cupy the position of the other on account of 
precession. Rik{I 164-66) 


Nakshatras:Arcs, not Stars 


In the very early Vedic times, the Nakshatras 
were essentially longitudinal segments of the 
ecliptic. The constellations were a relatively later 
discovery chosen to symbolize and identify the 
divisions. 


Weekdays First Conceived by Hindus: 


The Rig Samhita is believed to be the world's 
oldest extant record. The date ascribed to it is 
14th century B.C. by Colebrooke. But Indian 
scholars call it apourusheya or not composed by 
any human. Modem scholars, on the basis of 
astronomical data found in it, are now veering to 
this conclusion. 


304 


The Rig Veda (47-18) gives the period of 
precession as 28,800 years. The Puranas declare 
several Indras (equinoxes) have ruled over the 
world implying that the equinox has made several 
complete revolutions round about the _ ecliptic 
with respect to ASwint. The statements show in 
no unmistakable terms, the Hindus grasp of 
astronomical phenomena. 

The Rig Veda consists of 3parts: The Sam- 
hiia, Brahmanas and Upanishads. 

The Samhiia is divided into 10 mandalas. 
Each mandala consists of a number of Suktas. 
Each sukta consists of mantras of different 
metres varying in number. Of these suktas, the 
Purusha Sukia 1s a very popular one and Tecited 
daily by almost every devout Hindu In his morn- 
ing prayers. 

This sukta is a description of Purusha, Kala 
Purusha or Time Personified. It contains many 
facts about time and divisions of time. 

In the 15th mantra of. the Rig Veda but 
apearing as the 7th in Taitttiriya Aranyaka we 
find the week defined and related to the month. It 
says: 

Saptaasyaasan paridyah, meaning the 
‘month is made up of 7 weekdays’, and Trisapaia 
samidhah kritaah which means ‘and three more 
seven days' these with the Full and New Moon 
days constitute the month. 

This is the oldest reference to the weekdays 
which are 7 in number. The sloka describes the 
month as constitued by 7 days plus three more 


305 


(units) of 7 days plus the Full and New Moon 
days to make 30 days in all. 

Many historians obsessed with the Greek 
origin will find these facts hard to digest. They 
have usually gone by western theories which are 
many times fanciful, not corroborated by facts 
and absolutely unconnected with original works. 


Such historians and their slavish votaries 
mistakenly believe that the zodiac was formulated 
first by the Babylonians in 700 B.C. and the 
word horoscope is from the Greek word horos- 
kopos. What they fall to comprehend is the Issue 
is not the ethymology of the word horoscope but 
the origin of  Jyotisha  Sastra. Manilius’ 
Astronomicon and Plotemy's Tetrabiblios (140 
A.D.) are the earliest Greek works on Astrology or 
Jyotisha. 

Further, the theories of Astronomy that 
Ptolemy puts forth In his Almagest are simply 
childish compared to ancient Indian attainments 
in Astronomy. For instance Prolemy begins with 
the theory the earth is fixed and the planets 
revolving around it. When he finds he cannot ex- 
plain the appearance of Venus in the sky before 
sunrise and sometimes after sunset he changes 
the theory to one where he conceives of a long 
bar connecting the earth and the Sun and the 
planets hanging in between. This systenf of 
Ptolemy laid the foundations for European 
Astronomy. By this time in India, the theory of 
the earth spinning on its axis, the ecliptic....etc., 
were all familiar to even students of elementary 


306 


Astronomy. How can one be so naive and so 
biased as to attribute all knowledge of Astroloy in 
India to Ptolemy with his silly theories of the 
earth. 


With their advanced theoris of the Universe 
(which are today accepted as correct) the Hindus 
were the founding fathers of Astrology when the 
Greeks were still stumbling in the dark with their 
knowledge of the skies misconceived and wrong. 
Vedic Astrology had gained such strong roots in 
India and its reputation had spread.so far and 
wide that even Hippocratus who lived in about 
400 B.C. borrowed not only his materia medica 
from us but also learnt Astrology here*. In India, 
a horoscope was an absolutely necessary diagnos- 
tic tool and helped decide the line of treatment as 
well. It was the Arabs and Moorish astrologers 
who took Astrology from India to Europe during 
the middle ages. 


According to Balagangadhar Lokamanya 
Tilak, the Indians, the Iranians and Greeks 
originally were all Vedic Aryans. Later the 
Iranians and Greeks migrated westwards, the 
scholars among them taking with them Hindus 
Astrology amongst other subjects. Many Greek 
words are derived from Sanskrit. From shukra in 
Sanskrit is derived kupris' in Greek. Chakra in 
Sanskrit is kuklos in Greek. The Sanskrit tatra 


¢ A Study of the Heliocentric Science by Swami 
Abhedananda 


307 


becomes turas in Greek**. Many historians, with 
an in-built inferiority complex, have knowingly or 
unknowingly worked to distort fact by attributing 
many Sanskrit astronomical terms to Greek. 
Such scholars unfortunately, are ignorant of both 
Sanskrit and Astronomy and are incompetent to 
comment on either subject. Perhaps these 
‘scholars'could study the available original works 
and scholarly studies of those proficient in both 
Astronomy and Sanskrit which could help them 
shed their highly prejudiced views of the date and 
origin of Astrology. 

Prof. Weber, in fact, traces Indian literature 
to the period when the Indians and the Iranians 
lived together. According to Tilak (ibid) the Parsls 
separated from the Indian Aryan (from the 
geographical region known as Akhanda Vishala 
Bharata) in the Orion period, that is, between 
3000 to 2800 B.C. 


Says Tllak (pp. 206 The Orion) "The Greeks 
and the Parsis have retained no traditions of this 
period. for the simple reason that they carried 
with them only the calendar which was in force 
when they left the common home, while the In- 
dian Aryans have preserved all the traditions with 
a super-religious fidelity and scruplousness..... 
Further on (p. 307) he says talking of the Orion 
period (4000 B.C. to 2500 B.C.) "The Greeks and 
the Parsis appear to have left the common home 


ee The Orion by B.L.Tilak 


308 


during the latter part of this period as they have 
retained most of these legends and even the at- 
tributes of the constellation of Mrigashiras other- 
wise called Agrayana, Orion or the Pauryenl....” 


Prof. Max Mueller in his Biographies of 
Words (pages 288- 289) gives a lst of about 60 
mythological names common to Greek and 
Sanskrit. Many historians tend to represent this 
list as implying the Sanskrit words are derived 
from Greek, Actually, it is just the other way 
round as Tilak points out in his book The Orion. 


Vedanga Jyotisha, some historians wrongly 
believe, is only about Astronomy. It gives details 
of when sacrifices must be performed and tells us 
about auspicious and inauspicious periods. 
These periods are determined on the basis of the 
solar and lunar movements and come, as such.. 
within Astrology. It is not known exactly when 
but fatakaor horoscopy also evolved with muhur- 
ta. The latest, no matter how unwilling one is to 
accept the antiquity of Astrology, can be 1400 


GEOLOGIST USING MANUSCRIPT FINDS 
WATER 


Armed only with a 6th century manuscript, an Indian 
geologist is discovering groundwater reservoirs with amazing 
success, using trees and termite hills as clues. 


"My technique may be unorthodox’, says E.A.V. 
Prasad, a professor at Sri Venkateswara University in 
Tirupathi in South India, “but it works." 


The challenge came four months ago when the Gujarat 
state's water supply and sewerage board (GWSSB) asked 


309 


B.C. to 500 B.C. Jataka is a term that frequenily 
appears in Buddhistic literature. Buddha's own 
birth was interpreted horoscopically by the 
scholars in king Suddhodana's court and that is 
far. far anterior to the Greek Astrology of 
Manilius. For one who is open-minded, the refer- 
ences to the horoscope of Sri Rama in Srimad 
Ramayana will place Astrology even earlier. By 
then Astrology was a well developed science, so 
Its origins must date back very very early in the 
history of Aryavarta. 


Even the most reluctant critic will have to 
concede that horoscopy in India is indigenous 
and the latest period thaf can be given is 600 
B.C.. the Buddha having been born in 623 B.C 
The great poet Aswaghosha who belongs to the 
Ist century B.C has written 2 books in Sanskrit. 
Buddha Charita and  Soundarananda, both of 
which are admitted authentic by historians {Ii 31- 
32). 

In the first chapter of, BuddhaCharita (1 31- 
32), It says that "renowned pious scholars as- 


him to locate water in Jamnagar, a chronically drought- 
stricken district, in the western Indian state. 


Surveying the surface vegetation in village Kamballia, 
Prasad spotted a date palm enwinted with a banyan tree, 
He asked the GWSSB to drill a borehole 15 feet north of the 
tree. 


Water gushed out of the well at the rate of 2000 gal 
lons per hour (GPH). 


310 


sembled at the king's palace and told king Sud- 
dhodana that his son would be a great man and 
save the world from sorrows”. 


There can be no doubt as to the origin as 
well as antiquity of Jyotisha. It was born and 
developed in India. According to scholars, well- 
versed in Sanskrit as well as Astrology, Jyotisha 
is at least 6000 years old. 


In village Haripar, Prasad identified a termite mound 
colonized with vegetation and had a hole drilled 10 feet 
north of it. Its yield was even higher: 3000 GPH. 


Within 10 days. Prasad located 51 well sites in 30 vil- 
lages that had been classified as “no source” villages. Drill- 
ing has been completed in 15 sites. ‘ 


While modern scientists depend on costly equipment 
and satellite pictures to detect groundwater, Prasad says he 
depends on “bio- Indications" listed in “Brihat Samhita" 
written by Varahamihira, a philosopher. and sage who lived 
about 1500 years ago. 


According to Varahamihira, the presence of termite 
mounds indicates water below. His clues also include half 
a dozen animals and some 30 different trees, important 
among them being a species called “phreatotypes", whose 
roots penetrate to reach water, no matter how deep. 


- Courtesy: SPOTLIGHT (30-4- 1988) 


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 


INDIAN ASTROLOGY* 


Sepharial 


(Sepharial was a noted writer on Astrology 
and a contemporary of late Prof. B. Suryanaraln 
Rao. Sepharial had always kept an open mind on 
Hindu Astrology. The following is reproduced 
from his book The Science of Foreknowledge' to 
bring home to the handful of Indian astrologers 
who have no correct conception of their own great 
heritage. the antiquity, importance and_ in- 
digenous character of Indian Astrology and how, 
in the interests of astrological science, a 
hotchpotch mixing-up of the Indian and_ the 
European systems has withstood the test of time 
and experience and has certain features which 
can usefully be incorporated into the western sys- 
tem. - Ed. A.M.) 


It has been asserted that we can find a 
dozen writers who allege that the Hindus got 
their Astrology from Chaldea and Egypt, but not 
one authority can we find who controverts this’. 
Frankly. I should like to examine the credentials 
of these twelve "authorities". I am prepared to 
find that not one of them has familiarity with 
the subject of Astrology, either European or 


¢ Reproduced from the THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE, 
December 1961. 


312 


Hindu. My personal intercourse with Jyotish 
Sastris (astrological experts) and pandits of India 
confirmed me in this belief, and what I have seen 
of the work of Orientalists does not impress me 
to the contrary. 


When the Suryasiddhanta has been closely 
studied from first to last, the Orientalist is as far 
from any conception of the basic principles of 
Jyotish Vedanga (Astrology) as a new-born babe. 
Bailly has given us a very good rendering of the 
astronomy of the Hindus 1n his Astronomic In- 
dienne, but he and all other Orientalists are 
silent about the subject of Hindu Astrology. The 
fact is that, never having touched the subject in 
their own language, they wisely refrain from’ in- 
volving themselves in the more intricate system of 
the East as expounded in the Sanskrit Sastras. 


Though no “authority” from a mere linguistic 
point of view, I venture to contradict the dictum 
of those twelve writers who allege (but do not 
prove) that the Hindus got their Astrology from 
either Chaldea or Egypt. I will advance my argu- 
ments against this allegation. 


1. No Orientalist has yet disposed of the fact 
that Sanskrit 1s the oldest Indo-European lan- 
guage, the parent language of the Aryan race. 
None has shown, nor can show, that Accadian 
the principle languages of the ancient 
Babylonians is of greater antiquity than Sanskrit, 
or the Babylonians more ancient than the 
Aryans. The language of any people is the direct 
outcome of its thought, for it {ts embodied 


313 


thought, and hence expresses all those _ par- 
ticulars and peculiarities of environment which 
induced the thought of the people, their religious 
beliefs, their social polity, and all that goes to 
make up the round of their lives. Such is the 
Sanskrit im which the Vedas are written. And of 
Sanskrit it may be said without fear of contradic- 
tion that it is at once the most complex, com- 
plete, and highly inflected language within our 
knowledge. The Chaldean and Hebrew tongues 
are in comparison with it as the lisping prattle of 
a child is to the mature diction of a philosopher. 
The Astrology of the Hindus is all written in 
Sanskrit, Translations have been made into the 
vernaculars, into Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Marathl, 
Canarese, but all primarily are traceable to the 
teachings of the Hindu sages, Narada, Garga, 
Parasara, Varahamihira. and others. 


2.1 it is true that India, under the princes, 
enjoyed a free commerce with the surrounding 
nations, and that certain traditions may have 
passed current among them. But we have to 
remember that this commerce was restricted to 
one caste of Hindus - viz., the Vaisya. or mer- 
chantmen. The landlord was never allowed to 
travel out of his country. Yet it is these Brah- 
mins who, as hereditary Sastris, are responsible 
for the entire Jyotisha Sastra. Even at this day it 
is only the Brahmin who is permitted to expound 
the Vedas, and previous to the invasion of India 
by foreign nations the literature of the country 
was exclusively in the hands of the Brahmins. 


314 


3. If Claudius Ptolemy derived his Astrology 
from the Chaldeans, or if the methods advocated 
as original with the Chaldeans had any tradition 
in Egypt. certain it is that neither Chaldean nor 
Egyptian Astrology had tradition in India, for the 
sole and sufficient reason that the astrological 
methods of the Hindus are essentally and fun- 
damentally: different to all that is reputed 
Chaldean and Egyptian. 


In the first place their zodiac is not related to' 
the equinox, but counts from the fixed ' star 
Revati. which is now about 19° 35°17" east of the 
vernal equinox. (Mr. B. Suryanarain Rao makes 
Ayanamsa 21° 44'47". [I have used the epoch 
K.Y. 3600 as given in the “Kalasankalitafables. 
Precession 50 1/2 " per annum - Sepharial). The 
calculation of periods is based on the 27 Nak- 
shatras. or asterisms. and are reckoned from the 
place of the Moon at birth. What are called 
“Chaldean Directions", based on the diurnal 
aspects of the planets after birth form no part of 
Hindu Astrology. How, then, can it be said that 
the father has been taught by his children? 

It must not be thought that because the Hin- 
dus do not relate their zodiac to the equinox they 
were ignorant of those considerations which 
determine our Western methods. They were, ap- 
parently, well informed concerning the precession 
of the equinoxes and solstices, and the proper 
motion of the stars. They knew to make fairly 
accurate observations and did not neglect the 


315 


study of astronomy. The "Kalasankalita" tables 
show this to be the case. 

In Varahamihira’s work, entitled Brihatsam- 
hita, there is a passage which not only deter- 
mines the date of that writer, but of that 
Parasara whom he quotes. Mihira says: The 
summer solstice iS now in the first point of 
Kataka and winter solstice in Makara but the 
summer solstice was: at one time in the midddle 
of Aslesha according to former writers." Kataka 
is the constellation of Cancer; Makara is 
Capricormus; Aslesha is Leo. From this we lear 
that the constellation of Aries corresponded with 
the sign Aries when Mihira wrote his treatise on 
Astrology - viz., in the year AD, 498 - and also 
that observation had been made over 2.000 years 
before that date, when Taurus was an equinoctial 
and Leo a  solstitial constellation. The two 
zodiacs arc distinguished by the Hindus by the 
name of Sayanazand Nirayana, that which has 
motion and that which has none. It is well 
known that at the beginning of the year the wor- 
ship of Maya under the figure of the Bull (Apis) 
was performed by the Egyptians in the month of 
May. in honour of the Sun's entry into the con- 
stellation Taurus, the solar disc between the 
Bull's horns being emblematic of the astronomi- 
cal fact. 


The Hebrews must have witnessed this 
ceremony during their captivity in Egypt, since 
they sought to perpetuate this custom in the wor- 
ship of the golden Calf after their exodus. The 


316 


incident is in accord with the astronomical fact, 
for the Sun came to the equinoctial point in the 
constellation Taurus during the period of their 
captivity. It is evident however that the celebra- 
tion continued with the Egyptians after the equi- 
noctial point had left Taurus and had passed into 
Aries, for Moses, who was "learned in all the lore 
and language of the Egyptians”, put the Hebrews 
straight In this matter by instituting the Pasach 
(Transit), or passover to coincide with the true 
equinox. He prohibited the Worship of the Bull 
and instituted the symbolism of the Ram. The 
equinox had precessed from Taurus into Aries 
170. years before the Exodus. Before the 
Pharaohs there were the Hysksoi or Shepherd 
kings, and before the Hyksol in Egypt there were 
the "Former writers". on Astrology in India, 
referred to by Mihira. This carries us back to 
close upon 2700. B.C. at which time we find the 
Hindus already in possession of an astronomy 
and Astrology to writings upon which Mihira con- 
stantly refers. ¢ 


The Sanskrit kadjan, or palmyra book, is 
more ancient than the hieratic papyrus of Egypt, 
So far as the records of Assyria go they -do not 
approach the antiquity of the Hindu Sastras. Mr. 
Wilde, has laboured to show that the "day for a 
year" method of directing was in vogue among the 
Chaldeans and hence with the Babylonians. This 
may well be, seeing that Daniel, the chief 
astrologer at the court of Nabakollassar 
(Nebuchadnezzar) declared that, in the first year 
of the reign of Darius, King over Chaldea, he "un- 


317 


derstood by books the number of the years" of’ 
desolation propheised by Jermiah and we _ find 
him making use of a period of "70 weeks" to indi- 
cate a period of 490 years, Le., 70x7=490 days. 
But if this were the method in vogue among the 
Chaldeans, it is certain that they were not the 
preceptors of the Hindus, for. as | have said, the 
latter have no such time-measure in their 
astrological books. 

4. The insular character of the Hindus, and 
the exclusive nature of the Brahmin caste. is op- 
posed to the Idea of the Chaldean tradition which 
could only have been effected by commerce or by 
means of Mogbeds sojourning in India. In such 
cases the tradition would have left philological 
landmarks easy of recognition. 


That our Astrology came to us. from whatever 
source, by Latin tradition is evident from the 
names of the signs and planets in use by us. In 
the same manner, had the Babylonians communi- 
cated Astrology to the Hindus, the names would 
have been received by the latter along with the 
tradition. Where are the landmarks? Prof. Max 
Muller takes the contrary view in his famous 
derivations: 


Deva-Pitar Deo-pitar (Sanskrit), Zeus-patar 
(Greek). Deus- pater(Latin.) JupIter(English). 

There are two names for Jupiter in common 
use among the Hindus, one (Brihaspatibeing the 
designation of the celestial Father, the other 
(Guru) being the appellative of the earthly precep- 
tor or “God-Father’,ie., Deo-pitar. Brihaspali 


means “Lord of Increase" from brith (to expand) 
and Pati (Lord). It is identified with the Lord of 
Creation, Brahma, the latter name having the 
same root, the Hindu Trimurti or Trinity being 
Brahma (Jupiter), Vishnu (Mars), and _ Siva 
(Saturn): literally the Expander, the Pervader, 
and the Resolver. They have for consorts 
Sarswati. Lakshmi and Parvati respectively. 
Hence the unique symbol of Biune Trinity is as- 
sociated with the seven celestial bodies. 


Shiva 


Parvati 


The solar orb in this relation will correspond 
to Parabrahman. The male trigon (Saturn. 
Jupiter. Mars) is represented by the right tri- 
angle, the female (Moon, Mercury, Venus) by the 
reverse triangle, the male and female emanations 


319 


being opposite in position as In nature; for ob- 
serve, Dhanus and Meena, the signs of Jupiter, 
are opposed to Mithuna and Kanya, the signs of 
Mercury; Mesha and Vrischika the signs of Mars 
are opposed to Thula and Vrishabha, the signs of 
Venus, etc., the opposition being that due to 
polarity or equilibrium. The asterisms constitut- 
ing the Hindu zodiac take their names from the 
principal stars in each of them. These stars 
bear Sanskrit names - not Chaldean. 


The astronomy of the Hindus, like their 
Astrology, is original with themselves. The 
asterisms are subdivided into padas or quarters, 
each of which js ruled by one of the planets. The 
periods of the planets are: 


Saturn 19 years 

Jupiter- 16 years 

Mars 7 years 

Sun 6 years 

Venus 20 years 

Mercury 17 years 

Moon 10 years 

Caput Draconis 18 years (Rahu) 

Cauda Draconis 7 years (Ketu) 
120 years 


The trine is the basis of Hindu Astrology. 

These details are mentioned in support of the 
statement that there Is no known trace of Chal- 
dean tradition. The Chaldeans appear to have 
divided their zodiac into 28 asterisms and the 
names of them as received by us are Arabic, 
showing the channel of tradition. 


320 


The insular character of the Hindus, as 1 
have said, is opposed to the idea of a borrowed 
science. Their terminology is likewise in evidence 
against the theory of tradition. But what seems 
to set the matter beyond all doubt is the fact 
that the Hindus, who are. saturated .with 
astrological beliefs, and whose whole life is 
regulated by these beliefs, present no. single 
monument or structure, no literary quotation, 
no theological concept, no social law,-no single 
custom which points to such a_ tradition. 
Their architecture, on which all inscriptions 
are in relief, and not in intaglio, as with the 
Accaclans and Egyptians their ancient lan- 
guage; their classic literature; their theogony; 
their marriage laws; their methods 'of life; 
their regulations in regard to births and 
deaths— the whole atmosphere of _ their 
thought, life, and polity are .unique and 
original with themselves. The religion, science 
and language of the Hindus, ,existing uncor- 
ruted for milleniums, is exclusively and entire- 
ly Hindu in Its genesis and evolution. 


Mr. A.G. Trent "(Dr. Richard Garnett. LL.D.) 
says in regard to Hindu Astrology: ."So far as it 
differs from European Astrology, it appears to dif- 
fer for the worse. I cannot find any attempt at a 
theory of Uranus, whose life influence is as 
demonstrable as that of any other planet. At the 
same time, the small regard paid to the house 
seems to me to show that it was not derived from 
the Arabs, .and 1 am willing to believe it older 
than Mahomet, while I cannot imagine that it has 


321 


any such antiquity as the Astrology of Egypt or 
Chaldea." 

This is a very important statement coming 
from so reputable a source, but I venture to sug- 
gest another view of the case, which appears as 
more worthy of acceptance. The mere fact that 
the Hindus have not yet adapted Uranus of their 
system of Astrology (for they are not ignorant of 
Its existence) shows once more the insular 
reserve of the Brahmin, who stands by the 
Sastras as the meanest individual among them 
stands by the Dharma (caste) of his progenitors. 
In India every thing is hereditary, inviolate, unal- 
terable. No doubt, in the hands of a European, 
any difference in the system of Astrology taught 
by us and the Hindus would appear prejudicial to 
the Hindu system. But put competent Hindu 
astrologers to the test on their own lines, and I 
venture to say that they will repeat my experience 
and produce better result with less labour than- 
we by our methods. At the same time I will point 
that there are comparatively fewer proficients in 
India than in Europe. The Hindu astrologers la- 
ment the decline of Jyotisha Sastra, we here 
regret that the masses have never even com- 
menced the study of Astrology. In India everyone 
knows something of it. in Europe the knowledge 
of it is restricted to a few who are vey assiduous 
in their studies. Astrology is not yet nearly~at 
high noon, with us. but it has more than dawned 
upon those who stand on the hill tops. In the 
East they are lying languid in the evening of a 
resplendent day, and only a few watchers of the 


322 


night retain a real interest in the glimmering 
stars. 

As to “The small regard paid to the houses", I 
can only say that every Sastra considers the 
Bhavas as an essential part of Jyothisha, and a 
great stress is laid on the several dignities and 
deblities of the planets in the houses, irrespective 
of the signs they occupy. I regret that I have not 
done justice to the part of the subject in my 
short exposition of Parasara In the New Mammal. 
That Hindu Astrology is Immeasurably older 
than the Mohammedan era is certain from the 
fact that Mihira wrote in the fifth century, at 
least 120 years before Mohammed, while he 
makes reference to and quotes from Sastras 
evidently written in 2700 B.C about 2300 years 
before Daniel began the study of the books of 
prophecy! Narada is regarded by the Hindus as 
the sage who preserved the ancient astronomical 
records to those who survived the deluge; and 
Manu, who struck the keynote of the nation's 
polity for the Kaltyuga in his famous "Institutes". 
Is held to be one of those sages who bridged over 
the anti and post deluvian periods. The "In- 
stitutes" of Manu have strict regard to the teach- 
ings of Astrology, and the conservative Hindu will 
never neglect the study of his almanac, because 
the observance of the “Institutes” requires that he 
should have due regard to the time and seasons. 

While it Is true that we have no evidence to 
know that Chaldean Astrology had its birth in 
India, it certainly Is true that Hindu Astrology 


323 


cannot be ascribed to a Chaldean source. The 
horoscopes in the Ramayana not only enable us 
to fix the date of the great epic, but also con- 
stitute internal evidence of its historical verity. 
Above all they prove the great antiquity of Hindu 
Astrology, showing its existence in the peninsula 
fully 2000 years before the period ascribed to the 
Chaldeans. The statement that "... The Hindus 
compute horoscopes incorrectly" is quite false. 
They calculate the Lagnasphutam. or the rising 
degree with great accuracy, and the planets’ 
places are also properly determined in their 
panchangams. But the failings of the Professor 
must not be laid to the charge of the science, else 
an equal indictment’ will dispose of European 
science forthwith. This, I know, the Hindus 
have records of the influence of every six 
minutes of the zodiac. European Astrology has 
not as yet more than barely delineated the na- 
ture and influence of the twelve signs. 

As to the many authorities "who allege 
that Hindu Astrology had its birth in Chaldea”, 
I regret to say that I do not know of one 
Orientalist who has sufficient knowledge of 
either Hindu or Chaldean Astrology 'to enable 
him to institute a comparative study. The 
assertion almost makes one doubt their right 
to be called philologists or Orientalists. In ref- 
erence to Dr. Richard Garrnett and George Wilde, 
however, it should be observed that, whereas 
neither was a reader of Sanskrit, both were com- 
petent students and exponents of European 
modern Astrology. Dr. Garnett entertained great 


324 


suspicions in regard to the antiquity of Aryan 
literature in distinction from Prof. Maxmuller, Sir 
Willian Jones, and others who were disposed to 
trace all tradition and language to an Aryan 
source. Mr. Wilde, on the other hand, had con- 
ceieved an Idea that Chaldea was the birthplace 
of astronomy and Astrology, and even went so far 
as to call well-known modern methods by the 
name of Chaldean Astrology. Sparse references to 
astronomical facts to be found in the Accadian 
and Assyrian records were for him evidences of a 
complex system of Astrology having been current 
among them. | think it highly probable that such 
a system existed but we have no evidence of it 
still less that it had the least influence over the 
Astrology of the Hindus. 


From my_- general statement of _ the 
Orientalists' position in regard to Astrology, it 
was to be expected that the supposed evidences 
of a Chaldean or an Egyptian origin of Astrology 
would resolve themselves into a series of unsup- 
ported assertions. An authoritative statment can 
only emanate from one who has made Astrology a 
study. One has only to refer to the star texts of 
the Bible to see their linguistic study does not 
suffice Tor correct interpretation of passages of a 
technical nature. Reference to an article entitled 
“The Two Gates", which I contributed to the 
Astrological Journal, Coming Events, will show 
the familiar use of the word, "Gate" as referring 
to the point of ingress. The Book of Judges had 
received scholarly translation centuries before the 
gates of Gaza were recognised as the sign 


325 


Capricorn, or Hebron as the sign Cancer, or yet 
Samson as the solar body (Shemesh-on) and 
Delilah as the Moon. In the translation of the 
Book of Job there are many fancied references of 
stars where none are Intended, and the succes- 
sional rising of the signs under the name of Maz- 
zaroth has troubled many a commentator. 


So In reference to the origin of Hindu Astrol- 
ogy, a mere knowledge of Sanskrit does not suf- 
fice. The abundant literature of Hindu Astrology 
requires a technical knowledge for its adequate 
translation. It is true that the Greeks were in a 
state of rude barbarism while the Egyptians were 
pursuing an advanced study of astronomy. It is 
also true that the modern Parsis in India are fol- 
lowers of Zoroaster, but whereas the Hindus have 
extensive astronomical literature in the classical 
Sanskrit, no such record lies to the credit of the 
Parsis. The statement by the late Mr.George 
Wilde that "The Indians have sotne ancient writ- 
ings of no date" Is a very unscholarly remark 
more particularly when the tablets of Sargon I 
are set in contrast as if bearing an authentic 
date. The only means we have of judging in this 
matter is by the internal evidences. 


Had the Hindus borrowed their astronomy 
from Chaldea or Egypt or Greece, they would 
have preserved the landmarks—there would be 
evidences of tradition. For just as we know that 
the Saxons were vassals of their Norman con- 
querors from the contrast of such words as cow 
(sax), beef (norm), deer (sax) vension(norm), sheep 


326 


(Sax), mutton (norm), etc., and just as we have 
traces of the Latin tradition in language of our 
day—as. in fact, we localise the Hebrews and 
know them to have been.a nomadic race from the 
letters of their alphabet. so we know that the 
Hindus have no astronomical tradition from 
Greek or Egyptian. In the nameing of the celes- 
tial bodies and the asterisms. everything is 
original, insular, and local. Mr. Wilde himself 
advanced a statement which goes far to prove. “In 
none of the old writings is any account to be 
found of the computation of horscopes by oblique 
ascension." It has already been shown that the 
Hindus fix the rising sign and count therefrom. 


The Hindus fix the rising sign and count 
therefrom giving to each succeeding sign (Rasi) 
dominion over a whole house (Bhava).  Ballly 
states that "the first tables possessed by the In- 
dians only date back to 3102 B.C.". This was the 
year of the commencement of the Kaliyuga, which 
opened with the entry of Sun into the constella- 
tion Mesha (Aries) in the month of February. 


The tables referred to may be the oldest as 
yet known to us, but it is certain’ that 
Varahamihira, writing in the year A.D. 498, 
remarks upon the coincidence of the vernal equi- 
nox with the constellation Aries, and of the sum- 
mer solstice with the constellation Cancer 
(Kataka). But in the same passage he states 
that, "according to former Sastras," the summer 
solstice once Coincided with "the middle of As- 
lesha" (Leo), and this throws the record back to 


327 


3240 B.C. Weber's remark that "it would indeed 
be a most wonderful play of chance that in all 
these three countries— Chaldea. China and India 
— each in a different spot. but in an identical 
pole or same latitude the observations and cal- 
culations of the duration of the longest day 
should be the same" strikes me as being the most 
puerile thing ever penned by a professed orien- 
talist. If the countries named are in the same 
latitude, it would only be strange if observations 
and calculations as to the length of the day at 
summer solstice should not be same. 


Certainly Chaldea, China, and the Aryan 
country all have common latitude between the 
Tropic of Cancer and 30 degrees N., and It was 
in this territory of India that the ancient records 
were made. A careful survey of the passages 
quoted by Mr. Wlide reveal no evidence 
whatever that Hindu Astrology had its origin 
In Chaldea. They do Indeed show the aniquity 
of astronomical records in all the countries 
named, but there the matter ends, and the 
evidences of tradition are nil. 


328 


APPENDIX I 


Prof. Carl Jung's Letter to Prof. 
B.V. Raman 


Kusnacht-Zch. 
September 6th 1947 


Dear Prof Raman, 


I haven't, yet received THE ASTROLOGICAL 
MAGAZINE, but 1 will answer your letter neverthe- 
less. 


Since you want to know my opinion about 
astrology I can tell you that I've been interested 
in this particular activity of the human mind 
since more than 30 years. As I am a 
psychologist, I am chiefly interested in the par- 
ticular light the horoscope sheds on certain 
complications In the character. In cases of dif- 
ficult psychological diagnosis I usually get a 
horoscope in order to have a further point of 
view from an entirely different angle. J must 
say that I _ very’ often found that the 
astrological _— data elucidated certain __ points 
which I otherwise would have been unable to 
understand. From such experiences I formed 
the opinion that Astrology 1s of particular in- 
terest to the psychologist, since it contains a 
sort of psychological experience which we call 
“projected” - this means that we find the 
psychological facts as it were in the constella- 
tions. This originally gave rise to the idea 


329 


that these factors derive from the stars, 
whereas they are merely in a relation of 
synchronicity with them. I admit that this is 
a very curious fact which throws a peculiar 
light on the structure of the human mind. 

What I miss in astrological literature is 
chiefly the statistical method by which certain 
fundamental facts could be scientifically estab- 
lished. 

Hoping that this answer meets your request 

I remain, 


Yours sincerely, 
(Sd.) C.G. JUNG. 


330 


APPENDIX II 
THE STARS AND ME 
Woodrow Wyatt 


Donald Reagan: "Virtually every major move 
and decision the Reagans made during my time 
as White House Chief of Staff was cleared in ad- 
vance with a woman in San Francisco who drew 
up horoscopes...." 


This revelation did not startle me. We take 
the superstitions of religion as normal and ac- 
ceptable. They are no more rational than con- 
sulting astrologers, a practice older than estab- 
lished religions and which does not conflict with 
them. Sir Stafford Cripps was a devout Christian 
who believed im what Attlee dlsparingly 
described as the “Mumbo Jumbo" of religion as 
much as he did in conscientiously modelling his 
life on the precepts of Christ. 


I was the personal assistant on the Cabinet 
Mission to India. We had been having a sticky 
time with Congress and Muslim League. Stafford 
asked at his morning conference if anyone knew 
of an auspicious day on which to announce the 
mission's conclusions. Part seriously, part 
jokingly, 1 said we should apply to the Bengal 
Government's official astrologer. Stafford at once 
commanded Mr. Joyce, the press officer from the 
India Office, to find out from this astrologer the 
most auspicious day. This was duly done. 


331 


In 1947 the Cabinet and Mountbatten, 
under pressure, chose August 14 as the start of 
independence for India and Pakistan, hoping 
this would not be too late. Mr. Jinnah of the 
Muslim League was unconcerned. The Hindu In- 
dian leaders were troubled. The astrologers had 
reported that August 14 was not the best of 
dates and were ordered to select the most 
promising moment during It. They came up with 
exactly midnight. So Pakistan began its inde- 
pendence in the morning and India in the mid- 
dle of the night. India's subsequent history has 
been somewhat more successful than Pakistan's. 


Apart from setbacks and hiccups which in- 
evitably attend an eight-year presidency, Mr. 
Reagan has been remarkably successful inter- 
nally and internationally. Perhaps we should be 
grateful that seemingly he relies more on advice 
from astrologers than from political commen- 
tators and opponents. As Hamlet observed: 
“There are more things in heaven and earth. 
Horatio, Than are dreamt of in your philosophy". 
That goes for archbishops and popes too. 


Confess it or not, the vast majority of 
mankind believes in what it thinks is super- 
natural. Some intellectuals (see the Hidden 
Power by Brian Inglis) prefer to call it para- 
psychology. Arthur Koestler founded a professor- 
ship in the subject at Edinburgh University. 

"Bomber" Harris consulted Lyndoe, the 
people's astrologer, on the best times for bomb- 
ing raids on Germany and presumably was not 


332 


disappointed by the results. Millions daily read 
the stars' predictions under their signs of the 
Zodiac in the newspapers because they feel 
vaguely that there may be some truth in them. 
But such predictions are unlikely to reach 
anywhere near the accuracy of, say, Indian 
astrologers working on a precise time, date and 
place of birth of the person concerned. 

I went to India in the Army in late 1944. I 
had a friend, K.M. Panikkar, who was Prime 
Minister of the princely state of Blkaner. He 
asked me if I would like the court astrologer, 
K.P. Sharma to cast my horoscope, emphasising 
that his accuracy had been sharpened by being 
put in the local lock-up for a day or so any time 
he made a serious mistake over the Maharajah's 
Immediate future. This was unfair to Mr. Shar- 
ma; frequent applications to an astrologer dilute 
and muddy the brew. 


Mr. Sharma, whom I never met and who 
knew nothing about me (not that there was any- 
thing to know I when was 26),°cast my horo- 
scope blind in January 1945 from the actual 
minute and second of my birth, when I knew, 
and from the house I was born in. The full text 
is published as a three-page, appendix to my 
autobiography. Confession of an Optimist. 

When I have felt down I have been en- 
couraged by looking at it afresh because Mr. 
Sharma foresaw most the next-to-come good hits 
in my life. For example. "The royal planet in the 


333 


tenth /viz., the Sun) also indicated titles and 
honours in the latter half of life*. 

I was knighted when I was 64. I was sent to 
the Lords when I was 68. How the devil could 
Mr. Sharma tell that and many other things 
from my stars. But he did. He made amazingly 
accurate predictions for my friend Panlkkar 
which puzzled us in 1945 but became clear 
when, unexpectedly ambassador of independent 
India in Peking (1948-52). he was able, trusted 
by both, to persuade the Americans and Chinese 
Communists to begin the negotiations which 
ended the Korean war. My horoscope is a main 
reason why I have always been an optimist. 

I cannot explain these matters. But there is 
something going on out there which is real 
though we do not understand it. Take care how 
you laugh at Mr. and Mrs. Reagan - the last 
laugh may be with them. 


(Courtesy : THE TIMES. London). 


334 


APPENDIX III 
Who Doesn't Consult Astrologers 
Stephen Pile 


RONALD REAGAN consults an astrologer 
and the whole of America rises up in derision. 
Politicians mock, the state totters and car- 
toonists have a field day. 

What hypocrisy. You rarely meet Americans 
without them saying: "You must be a Gemini." 
They all read their horoscopes with blind devo- 
tion and there is such an astrology boom in the 
U.S. that you or I could buy a tent, set up in 
business there and make a healthy living. 


No less than three state governors consulted 
a leading British astrologer for advice about 
standing in the presidential election. What is 
more, companies have astrologers on the staff to 
help with product launches and the second most 
successful stock market analyst on Wall Street 
openly makes his predictions on astrological 
basis. 


It is exactly the same in Britain, where a 
significant number of businessmen, politicians, 
well-known companies, titled folk and people in 
the city have an astrologer in the way that 
others might have a chiropodist. 


335 


More Auspicious 


Nonetheless, the president felt obliged to 
deny the report. (In that case, would he care to 
tell us why he delayed his inauguration as the 
governor of California from the traditional hour 
of midday to the decidedly eccentric one of a 
minute past midnight? Astrologers were queue- 
ing up to point out that his chart for the second 
day was far more auspicious than for the pre- 
vious one.) 


More to the point, why does Ronnie feel that 
he was to deny it? He would be a fool not to 
consult an astrologer. In his position it would be 
tantamount to dereliction of duty. Every body 
else does, particularly some of the shadier dic- 
tactors with whom he seems to be so chummy. 


General Pinochet in Chile has a hotline to 
the stars, General Zia of Pakistan took astrologi- 
cal advice before executing Bhutto, as did Sri 
Lanka before choosing the exact minute in 
which it became a republic. 

There is documentary evidence that Mossad, 
the Israeli intelligence service, regularly uses 
astrologers, most notably in the raid of Entebbe. 
Sheikh Yamani had one in London and _ or- 
ganized OPEC meetings according to her advice. 
Indira Gandhi had whole gangs of them and the 
Indian astrological press was full of warnings 
about the planetary dangers at the time of her 
assassination. 


336 


In world history. of course, Ronnie is the 
rule rather than the exception. The art of divin- 
ing the future began around 3000 BC in the 
Tigris-Euphrates basin because they never knew 
who was going to invade them next or when the 
river was going to flood. (There was no divina- 
tion in Egypt because the desert prevented in- 
vasion and the Nile flooded at the same time 
every year.) 

Thereafter, all Roman emperors consulted 
augurs of astrologers, as did Elizabeth I, 
Napoleon, Lloyd George, Edward VII, Roosevelt, 
Churchill, the lot. Only the age of reason wiped 
astrology out for 300 years until the 20th cen- 
tury decided to give it another half-hearted go. 


So why should the President put himself at 
a disadvantage and ignore this ancient tool, par- 
ticularly at a time when astrology has _ Inter- 
wined with Jungian psychology to the point 
where it increasingly counsels you on how to 
make the most of your individual charac- 
teristics? 

[ last week submitted myself to a _ tarot 
reader, a psychic, a clairvoyant in Mansfield who 
worked from a lock of my hair, a dial-a-crystal- 
ball reading, a palmist, a medium and several 
astrologers. Most of them got enough right to 
keep me interested, but were way off beam on 
much else. 

The one who got everything wrong was the 
medium who learned from the next world that I 
am dynamic, organised, quick at decisions and 


337 


destined to be an editor (in my view this is not a 
fit job for a grown-up and I would re-train as a 
vet in preference.) 


The Mansfield clairvoyant predicted that I 
would meet a man called Fred with a flat cap, 
live in Saudi Arabia, sit near a fountain while 
having a meal and see a rolled-up pink carpet. 

My dial-a-crystal-ball reading brought a 
flood of information, including the fact that 
there will be only two more popes before 
Catholic Church disintegrates. 1, meanwhile, am 
going to be very rich, successful, and a public 
figure, which is nice because the palmist said I 
would be strapped for cash and never fulfil my 
potential. 


You can see why astrologers want to dis- 
sociate themselves from that sort of waffly 
occult gang. They stand out In that company 
for their accuracy and seriousness, (bold ours) 
But even here there is a great range of ability. 


My worry Is not that Reagan consults an 
astrologer, but that he should consult a good 
one. Newspaper reports suggest that he uses 
Miss Joyce Jillson, who acted in Peyton Place 
and the Sammy Davis Jr show, wrote a booked 
called The Fine Art of Flirting and advertises her 
$ 1 introductory service in a _ horoscope 
magazine. She may be a first-rate astrologer but 
I would feel much happier if he was visiting 
some horribly serious, darksulted person in 
swish consultation rooms who charges a fortune 
and is known only by word of mouth. 


338 


Real Thing 


If you want a good astrologer in Britain, for 
example, you should contact the faculty of 
astrological studies in Haywards Heath and ask 
for its list of consultants, all of whom have com- 
pleted a five-year training course and signed a 
code of ethics that prevents them for writing a 
stars column in the press. Few of those people 
advertise and some may charge up to £ 100 for 
a session. However, you will be getting the real 
thing. 

Whatever my reservations about even the 
most unhelpful of the seers T visited, I accept 
that they were all compassionate, thoughtful, 
peace loving and aware that human society is a 
fragile web in which each of us depends upon 
the others. 

Personally, I would much prefer that' Ron 
listens to an astrologer, psychic or a blind 
woman with a bucket full of duck entrails than, 
say. Caspar Weinberger or those document- 
shredding aides. At last, I feel that Ron 4s in 
safe hands. 


Courtesy: The Sunday Times and 
Times of India, 14-5- 1988 


339 


APPENDIX IV 


BRIGHU NADI READING OF 
BHAGAWAN RAMANA _, 
MAHARISHI’S HOROSCOPE 


Shukra asks: 


O Brahman, O great Sage, many persons are 
born when the constellation Libra is raising, 
how may I have the detailed knowledge of each 
individual separately? 


Brighu replies: 


The birth Is in the Tula Lagna(Libra Ascen- 
dant) and therein (first house)are, you (Venus or 
Shukra.) O best amongst Brighus.O son. Mer- 
cury (Budha) ts in the second house; hence the 
child will be a yogi. In the third house is the 
Dragon's Head(Rahu). and the Sun is also there. 
In the fifth house is Jupiter(Guru) so he will be 
a knower of Truth. Saturn (Shani) is in the sixth 
house. In the seventh is Mars(Mangal): hence 
the child is Yogabrishta (fallen from Yoga). In 
the ninth house ts the Dragon's Tail (Ketu). and 
the Moon is also there; for this reason he wuil 
know the Selfin the end. 

The correct time of birth (as calculated from 
sunrise) being :- 48 Ghatis, O Pala, 30 Vipala, 4 
Truties. A configuration, as this (this Yoga) is 

¢ Furnished by Sri T.N.Venkataraman, President Sri 
Ramanasramam, Tiruvannamalai 


340 


called"Muktl Sadhaka" (achiever of liberation.) 
One bom In this configuration will see the world 
as Brahman. He was berm on Monday the first 
superimposed by the second thithi of the Dark 
half in the month of Marghasheersha, when the 
Moon was in that Asterism (Nakshatra) which 
comes after Ardra, viz., Diti (or Punarvasu). He 
the best among the Brahmins, will be desirous 
of Liberation (Moksha)... He will be possessed of 
an elder brother and a younger brother and 
other possibilities (of Brothers) being destroyed. 
And I have nothing to say about sisters. 

His education will be im accordance with the 
time and place(he is born in), and_ his 
(knowledge) of English will be (Just enough) for. 
practical purposes. He will be coming in contact 
with (study) Philosophy, and though living like 
an ordinary man. he will be mentally detached. 
In his palm there is line which will bring him 
honour and success; at the base of the second 
(ring) finger. which is actually a Yoga-line, in- 
dicative of his desire for Moksha,and Omnis- 
cience; he will be a knower of truth and he will 
look upon all equally. He will obtain great fame 
and respect and a mere sight of him will destroy 
all sins. 


This child (or. from his childhood he) will be 
pure minded and will aspire to the realisation of 
Hari. Even though (in his past incarnation) he 
had made atonements (purification) for his past 
sins(as will be clear later), he will suffer from 
severe illness in his childhood; in hts thirteenth 


341 


year his father will go to Heaven (die). His 
mother will become a widow. The mother will be 
beloved of the brothers, but this child being dis 
interested, (tn worldly affairs), there will be dis- 
sension in the home. Having renounced every 
thing, he will be seer of the self. And again, out 
of an intense desire to obtain realisation of 
Brahman, and having left his home, he will 
practice complete control over the processes of 
his mind. He of pure heart, having gone to the 
Holy mountain, will, station himself in a quiet 
place, and there, his doubts removed, will be in- 
tent on the vision of God. Later, many diseases 
will assail his body; he. however will become 
pure(free from illness) not only in body, but in 
soul and mind. He will progress in the practice 
of Yoga, and absorbed in Yoga he will reach the 
Samadhl (supramental spiritual consciousness). 
The cause of everything that happens to all em- 
bodied beings 1s contained in what they have 
earned or acquired (by their actions) in past 
births. 


Sukra asks: 


O Brahman, tell me in the first place what 
happened in his previous life, by knowledge of 
which I may have divine vision (explanation of 
why and wherefore of the present life). 


Brighu replies: 


O Shukra. in his former life he was a highly 
intelligent Brahman, who had mastered the lore 


342 


of the Vedas and was devoted to the worship of 
God. Intellectual, one who had progressed far 
along the path of knowledge(Gnyan). he was in 
the first rank of those learned in the scriptures. 
Conceited in his learning, he was, however, 
despised by other learned men. One Pandit, tor- 
mented by an insult, cursed him, saying "May 
you be debased in:birth after birth; may you fall 
from the path of salvation and be born again on 
this earth." When he heard this terrible and un- 
bearable curse he resorted to reciting the 
Gayatri Mantra (the mother of the Vedas); and 
later he became a Sanyasi(an ascetic). After a 
long time O Shukra he died and guided by des- 
tiny, took birth as a Brahmin having knowledge 
of Brahman and possessing characteristics as 
have been related before. 


Shukra says: 


Tell me all the incidents of his life while he 
remains on earth, beginning with, his birth, and 
also the ceremony of purification, etc. 


Brighu replies: 


At the moment of his birth a certain old 
woman of the name of Sulochana (or one who 
had beautiful eyes) obtained divine vision in 
which she had a luminous experience of Brah- 
man. O best amongst Brighus, his father will be 
a lawyer at the Court. From his birth upto his 
tenth year his father will have respect and 
standing as a leading lawyer. Thev will be three 


343 


brothers, himself being the middle one. His 
mind will be on learning his lessons, and he will 
be agile and fond of playing. During those(ten) 
years he will occasionally have troubles(e.g. 
minor illness). During his 11th or 12th years he 
will be devoted to his studies. At this stage an 
effort (a purificatory penance as prescribed by 
Brighu) should be made to save the life of his 
father but as my words will not be heard no 
effort will be made. In the thirteenth year his 
father will go Heaven (die); and his mother 
having become a widow, will give up all her or- 
naments. 


During his 14th and 15th years, a certain 
Brahmin will give him spiritual instructions and 
hearing his words, he will leave his home and 
resort to Arunachala. Here he will stay, and his 
doubts having departed, he will gradually ac- 
quire knowledge of Brahman. This boy, being a 
portion of Divinity and because of the actions of 
his past lives, will desire Spiritual Liberation. At 
this time a Brahmin, who has: taken a vow of 
silence, comes and takes shelter with him. Again 
some mischievous boys starts dropping stones 
upon him. Thereupon renouncing everything 
(leaving that place) he who has taken tbe vow of 
silence takes shelter on Arunachala. maintaining 
his silence. Up to his 18th year he will observe 
silence as a means of finding truth. Some times 
trouble will come to him(e.g. small illness), but 
he will be protected by merit acquired in the 
past (by his good deeds). Now, his preminded 
mother who was very much _ worried and 


344 


depressed (by his absence) and desired the 
return of her son will come to him accompanied 
by his brother. He, however, being wise and 
knowing Truth, the mother and brother become 
disappointed and return home full of anxiety. 
After that, O Shukra, his knowledge and detach- 
ment will increase. Suddenly one day a huge 
python comes but when he sees this python, the 
python goes away. His knowledge increases and 
he becomes a Sidha (a perfect sage). 

During his 20th and 21st years : - His elder 
brother goes to Heaven(dies). During his 22nd, 
23rd. and 24th years: his mother again visits 
him and she. having seen her son, returns 
home. Also a certain eminent Brahmin comes to 
see him, He will become a knower of Brahman, 
and will be known (henceforth, by the name of 
“Maharshi”. Beginning with the 26th year up to 
the 31st year he becomes known by this name 
"Maharshi" and is respected by the people 
around.’ He—who knows Brahman—the Truth. 
and whose mind 4s free gives spiritual instruc- 
tlons(to disciples). During his 35th and 36th 
year: His .brother’s wife dies. His mother arrives 
accompanied by his younger brother. His fame 
spreads and he is more widely respected: a her- 
mitage (Ashram) like a small village springs up. 


Between his 37th and 41st years he be- 
comes indeed a Yogi and his mother goes to 
heaven. During his 42nd and 44th years there is 
mortal danger from night prowlers. There is in- 
deed graver danger. The thiteves,however, are 


345 


however unsuccessful. Later, all these thieves 
though, for committing an offence at some other 
place, receive the king's punishment as the 
result of which they perish. From his 45th to 
56th year he becomes a King amongst Yogis-the 
knower of Brahman with a mind unattached. 
His fame becomes great and he is worshiped by 
the people to whom he is unattached. 

O Shukra, in his 57th year, a certain 
Solicitor (literally, an adviser in the Court) to 
whom God is dear, and who is desirous of know- 
ing the qualities of a Yogi will come to hear my 
words. He (the Solicitor who is also a knower of 
Brahman, will hear my words first; afterwards, 
he himself (the Maharshi) will read them, so also 
will many other people. In the extra month of 
Bhadrapada the many people staying in the Ash- 
rama, having heard these words, will be 
wonderstruck 


My words should be kept secret and should 
not be given to the bad, roguish and _ sinful 
people : they should be divulged only to the 
calm, the devoted, the pure and the firm. In the 
Kali age, the sinful and wicked people will decry 
my, words and call them false, imagining them- 
selves to be intelligent. Furthermore, in the per- 
formance, of the Prayaschitta (purificatory 
penance) hindrances will arise from day to day; 
these being the results of sin will say otherwise 
(i.e.. deter from its performance). Therefore, on 
hearing this, the effort (the ceremony ) should 


346 


be made with the liberal mind and in accord- 
ance with the prescribed rites. 


Shukra asks : 


O great Yogi, if you would be kind to me 
please tell me whose pooj a he should perform 
and what money in charity he should give so 
that he may not experience trouble even in 
dreams and he may become as a child of God. 


Brighu replies: 


He should make a heap of 400 tolas of 
gold(the lines from 130 and 141 are omitted 
since they relate exclusively to the mode of 
ceremony) 

If he does the Prayaschitta ceremony in this 
manner his knowledge of Brahman will be per- 
fect. By its non-performance there will be mental 
anxiety and his Yoga will go astray. 

His disciples, therefore, should perform the 
prayaschitta (by doing which) he will becomes 
lustrous, knower of Brahman and respected of 
the people, and ultimately a perfect Yogi with in- 
fallible will (possessing all Divine powers). 

(Line 147 seems a mistake, therefore omitted 
here). 

During his 58th, 59th and 60th years, he 
shines like a being liberated though dwelling in 
the body, and has great love for his devotees. He 
experiences great bliss. he is as though a living 
image of the Vedas, puissant and ever dutiful. 


347 


Now and then Ill health arises, but disappears of 
itself. Pure and holy himself, and _ therefore 
beyond the need of acquiring virtue he takes Joy 
in doing religious deeds and works 
of charity (for the sake of good example). 

During his 61st, 62nd.and 63rd years the 
Light in him increases and burns Hike fire,and 
he shines like liberation incarnate. 

During his 64th, 65th and 66th years I 
declare (about) concerning this unattached great 
Being that he now becomes equal to the highest 
Brahman (achieves complete unity with Brah- 
man, the highest state of perfection). His face 
shines with beautiful Ught, the very sight of 
which is enough -o give one salvation. 

During his 67th, 68th and 69th years this 
Yogi of Yogls_ this knower of Brahman whose 
mind is unfettered may have iliness which would 
be cured by the practice of Yoga. 

In the 70th, 71st and 72nd years he who 
has realised truth obtained suprene knowledge 
and achieved complete freedom will dangerously 
ill towards end, and if finally he is brought back 
to health by means of Yoga, then alone will hap- 
pen what I say further. 

From the 73rd to the 80th years he will be 
even as the Supreme Brahman, and will occupy 
himself in devotion and service to God. 

Finally death will approach and in a waking 
state he will pass into the Supreme trance 
(Samadhl). If death turns back he will then dle 
in his 83rd year, in the month of Magh on the 


348 


12th of bright half in the early part of the night 
when his body will resolve itself into the five 
Elements and the Spirit will rest at the feet of 
Vishnu (Supreme Deity). 

If this Yogi does perform the Prayaschitta he 
will have all the wealth of spiritual power, but 
by its omission the result will be to the con- 
trary. 

Thus I have related the incidents of his Ife 
as seen from the first house, which is the most 
important, and also, though briefly, the. other 
houses, after hearing which nothing more 
remains to be known. 

Thus ends the Horoscope of the Monarch of 
Yogis in the Sub- Chapter called “Kundali*, in 
the seventh Chapter ofthe Brighu- Samhita 
which contains a dialogue between Brighu and 
Shukra. 


