AstrologyKRS 


AstrologyKRS 


KRSchannel company 


Edition 1 
copyright 2013 © Kapiel Raaj 
www.Astrologykrs.com 


The following magazine is a collection of articles based on Vedic Astrology by authentic Vedic 
Astrologers across the globe. 


Each article in the magazine is individually copyrighted by its author. Kapiel Raaj and 
www.AstrologyKRS.com does not hold any copyright to the material written by any astrologer except 
Kapiel Raaj's article. 


Kapiel Raaj has the legal permission from the author's to publish their work in the magazine. 


Any reproduction or publication of any article in the magazine must be authorized by the copyright 
holder of the article. 


All photographs in the magazine are copyrighted under its rightful owner. 


Editor: each article has been edited by its rightful owner. 


Producer: Kapiel Raaj 
www.AstrologyKRS.com 
contact: krschannel@gmail.com 


AstrologyKRS 


INDEX: 

BESS Ey esa atmos eet acoes nce eta ess ta ean ner ome 1 
MAST GU NC ADIL yas ppsczehciiszrase actus cerns Seca sincualnonasu suossai kos cGviee woadunouisnarree exeaded quipped eesbaductswcwsecen bees 3 
Calm, Coul, Collective: Wiare Boney cmtsssdccnccsackexsetesssadie Bandar snceneuansiorsctescoadasodanedetedGnetswiertasnscsates 6 
How a Skeptic Became a Practitioner ............ccssccssssseccssscssssecsscssccesscessacsnansseccseacssnssensseesnsesscesacens a 
Typewriter Verslis 2 COMmpULEL c.5ccccaaralecasenicatsstbabetesicnidexsaialanetaeteexpaanicentiaeatenem eedeuen 8 
About Mate Boney Mi As: scisicccsncanecanahsaivswnsnrtessalasdeansensuaepoiaicccasseutaiuslaadiawnineisnbianccummnlessstnniaraeies 10 
eM CIE scsczsecicsipacssenoowcadcestosnaseuecuua ssa hia SesmanvasusrncsasauvaaurcendadusocmnaD re cxtnacse eueeauseasadiascynentecieas 11 
CURES OF a1 BC OUI E s3in decir veciuasavticcdcip iuaca tanh Gesen elute uanaaneute ened aaleatnnecannetaceay eae 20 
BTEC CUS) srg ectsenee cantons vauste evs eee deena aes sane dasinnetoan ton weet tapriouvnavestiertauvenrncerswursecarens uiereosammnnanns 24 
POET TANT OOS csecinssssasesorsanetecstsceerarcueatoadenal yenceuaenaledlunsustiacsiuaddanluiacdsarvsdsduaeoeardsealwecsaaloecemaatinde 25 
TO Basic Jatiit Raj aVOeas si cssncascesiadcvunsinascvsskeacenaens susseatabceciaansciessadacsuaansecssniasdetaaanlavesaideemnenns 26 
Dancing with the waves: Vaugh Paul Manley............c.ccccccssecsseceseeeesceeeeceseceeeeseeeeeseecsaeceeeeeeeensaes 50 
The Ogeen of Jyotish: JONI Pry sccsiveecavenctecccr edaatnketancnnnacem saa inoamenaainaaune 61 
COMBINATIONS OF POWER (RAHU AND KETU ) ....... cece cccescesseseceeecseeeceeeeeceaeeeeeaeeeeeaeenees 70 
Sada Siva? The miacicof Harmi0ie CHArts sce soscvonusvuavsdWsosnertesaainnesuavanviesvnaacseavtesesisiesdsnazanecoeriens 93 
The Quiet Side of Me: Kaniel Raat sisciscnccikccineiarcniinto oii edwateanceicaien 105 
Dye Ut yi TDG SUNN ads coset atc ctue here a eaadrencenienanieeue been tana xenad ences eeeiaen etadaeuennennners 112 
(AR BER COM SDI TATION sjectsaisteatecccseesecncashtnntonalstesnsasSeneadsabosoranelesnalsetattasstuedtasecuueunbecediettaasies 117 
MY BEST BLUNDER © sssdicaccvadsseccssavexceaibiaeecasteantera i iacksieandend toaetvatenten exees eaneenetrncdaatneenees 128 
IO COU aiid CAR EIR 2, «ccsasenseesieavesiadstadeieshusn'bausseuncntesatunssssunsentavam iavssarseacoueancnstoteceavcnemuness 130 
HW itoe Gig tp, ar0,iigg lic: 50h.) 1 eeermreemee re menrs penne T nenritt airy eye menntT cemetn ne metry nnn rte onrte  merenr rennet eee tr eee 134 
THLE WAT GIVI N  sszxctncess sc bnacitasienacnauthatovannas eesindandeicaamadaccusoia eboasdaaecan ance deeuncatlaberassinian isis 135 
AES SE Tt Wy le FANT FN NS yes pec seniscbetun ese Scmnraasnnpna dua becnccuaeedaeys Seeisaxenienadueteabieeasdedsctesnaanic’s 140 
Ray or Ligh Misch Ray agi eas vsccranccruniucton carved runrainenta aceon ieee 144 
The Hybrid ETtect (A. Perrect Goulash) sscisascaccsuaniessavaneswiannnnccsedssuestuavennssesesalennsinncesuaseaiaencanuten 148 
TOOK UIP SE TUS VOUE TIDE cn; cccsassseacesneondcaddivelvesasnoncastanbarduuvenisudsvesdestonnpepebeuberduunanussekensseseuusoasiaens 153 
Ts Bei Aaa | Ye ge Fa) coe casa atebcaebicnesns ans baceieiaaeaasaancanniancans iia decaima oun aeeeeenainens 155 
A Different Perspective: Met Ernst Wilhelm. siccccccccsssancsacassevisesnnatenccdencoansasecsseaneeedsunvcnesnnasentonn 158 
WU AMTUTIALS COLE TP a Ua. ssecsaiaitesa yes eeenianiuccasdonuseueaus aces oa arcane annem aa) aaa ea 160 
The House Waster: Despal, Bisaria scsicsccssisacassahuccasedisnevonsiandcvadioacesanedecneisnocs ekonddsaneincsetanceuns 166 
Jamies Brahe: Mari yrithtintliiele ISPS NS ci... sdssnidastannerteondondeuasvoesese snnddebenbedduavsncanesennsesbuusesuhss 199 
PAROS COG UOT IGS sca sevens nceasieh acca aatdecests idan asscesasietidcesuniiaceuseicaennannieiascasiansuapiaereileseoacaiels 201 
Ts legal prospective Oni J yOu s liv :cmxccesispiestsuandacwncadsnensennnncdacicaxtenas pcrereuareasateaetinencedaaenuleenenuatennons 205 
MEST Diy Wii Diath Dain NA cscs passes zea saonsavaevtoesancecpacustvapiarosepsemacathadantsosdiesbacdse apse 210 
NADI ASTROLOGY — PREDICTIVE HINDU ASTROLOGY ..........ccccccccccesseceeessteeeeeesteeeees oA Ml 


The Royal Cabinet: 


a 


Marc Boney 


Vaughn Paul Manley 


Sam Geppi 


AstrologyKRS 


AstrologyKRS 


Kapiel Raaj 


Ernst Wilhelm 


AstrologyKRS 


Umang Taneja 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


AstrologyKRS 


How a Skeptic Became a Practitioner 


1 bt 4 


photograph by Kapiel Raaj 


Did you ever have the feeling that some things are just meant to happen? Have you ever wondered what 
words like “fate” and “destiny” really meant, or whether such things actually exist? I have. In fact, I 
have spent my entire adult life pondering these age-old philosophical questions as a result of my 
experiences with astrology. These experiences have transformed my perspective on the human 
condition, and the eternal debate about fate versus free will. They have taught me the literal truth of the 
biblical statement “As you sow, so shall you reap.” They have also given me an unshakable faith in the 
existence of a higher reality in life, a faith I had once lost. 


My astrological journey began at age 22 when I had my own chart read by my first spiritual preceptor, 
Goswami Kriyananda. Just based on my birth data, including the exact time, I was astonished at what he 
was able to tell me about myself and my life experience thus far. I was even more astonished when he 
predicted that I would likely become an astrologer myself! Up until then I regarded astrology as a 
medieval superstition in which only ignorant and uneducated believed. This experience literally turned 
my world upside down and sent me on a quest to understand how such a thing could be. How could the 


AstrologyKRS 


planetary pattern at a person’s birth symbolically reflect their personality and to some degree their life 
experience? 


My quest led me to the work of renowned Swiss psychiatrist, Carl Jung, and his concept of 
“synchronicity,” and statements of his such as “whatever is born of a moment takes on the qualities and 
characteristics of that moment.” In a publication of his letters, I discovered that he did the birth charts of 
his patients to gain a deeper understanding of them. While reading “Autobiography of a Yogi” by 
Paramahansa Yogananda I came across such statements from his guru that “a child is born on that day 
and at that hour when the celestial rays are in mathematical harmony with his individual karma.” 

Soon thereafter I began my own studying of astrology, drawing up the charts of family members and 
close friends, and found that these validated the interpretive principles I was learning. To my continued 
astonishment astrology appeared to “work,” and as a result of this discovery, the concepts 
of reincarnation and karma became very real for me, since they were the only thing that that logically 
explained the correlation between a person’s birth chart and their life experience. Then I started to 
become known among my circle of acquaintances as having some proficiency at interpreting charts, and 
they started coming to me for “a reading.” Kriyananda’s prediction had come true. The skeptic had 
become a practitioner. 


So 


Typewriter versus a Computer 


Of Western astrology, that is, and I continued as such for a period of twenty years. But if the truth be 
known, I felt like something of a fraud. I could not reliably and consistently predict events. The only 
redeeming feature in this was that I was an honest fraud. I told my clientele up front that if it was 
prediction that they were looking for, they were probably talking to the wrong person. 


Instead, I became adept at delineating personality dynamics through the birth chart, and shied away from 
the predictive side. I got good feedback on this type of consultation, but it was really more astro- 
psychologizing than predictive astrology. 


AstrologyKRS 


Then in the autumn of 1992, on the insistence of a friend, I attended the first Symposium on Vedic 
Astrology in the U.S. where I met Dr. B.V. Raman, a renowned practitioner. Though he did not 
demonstrate his own skill with the Vedic system, his talks did inspire me to begin learningJyotisha. I 
quickly perceived that without a teacher, I would make little progress. I prayed to God that a teacher 
would come into my life, and made plans to go to India. As it happened, India came to me. At the 1993 
conference I met Mr. K.N. Rao. God had answered my prayer. Rather awestruck, I watched him 
demonstrate the beauty, elegance, and predictive power of this astrological system to a rapt audience in 
his hotel suite one night using my own chart. (For a more detailed account of this fascinating first 
encounter with K.N. Rao click here. It’s a good story!) 

I was completely hooked, and immediately began an intense course of study with him. Utilizing the 
methods he teaches, I was soon able to make successful predictions about such diverse events as 
marriage, birth of a child, periods of professional distinction and financial gain, as well identifying 
challenging times for health. The experience in making this transition from Western to Vedic astrology 
was rather similar to what I felt when I was able to go from creating documents on a typewriter to using 
a word processor on a computer. It was just so much more of a sophisticated tool with such greater 
capabilities! So that is how a Westerner astrologer became a “Jyotishi.” I have been immersed in Vedic 
astrologer ever since, and would be pleased to share with you the benefit of my 20 year experience. 


AstrologyKRS 


So 


About Marc Boney M.A. 


Marc Boney M.A. is an internationally renowned astrological teacher, writer and consultant. He has 
been involved since 1974 with the integration of the ancient wisdom of astrology with the counseling 
arts. He received his training in Jyotisha primarily from K.N. Rao, one of the world’s foremost Vedic 
astrologers. His focus is on using the Vedic system to help guide people in their lives, as well as training 
other Jyotishis. 

Marc has been a featured speaker at international conferences, is a faculty member of the American 
College of Vedic Astrology, and was the main presenter on Jyotisha at the Chopra Center for Well- 
Being from 2000 to 2002. He is the author of 50 articles on this topic, and two soon-to-be published 
books. 

The Institute of Astrology, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, of New Delhi, India honored Marc with a 
Distinguished Service Award for his contributions to the advancement of Vedic Astrology in the West. 
Marc recently founded the Pacific Institute of Vedic Science, which offers quality educational programs 
in Yoga, Ayurveda, and Jyotisha in the San Diego area where he lives. 


Prior to his current full-time involvement with these Vedic sciences, Marc held positions in the 
corporate world as a Director of Human _ Resources, Outplacement Consultant, and 
Leadership/Organizational Development Consultant. 


Marc holds an MA in Counseling Psychology and a BA in English Literature from Northwestern 
University in Chicago, Illinois. 


He is a practitioner of Transcendental Meditation since 1971 and later trained as a teacher and taught 
TM in the late 70’s. 


10 


AstrologyKRS 


Crowning Glory 


Gwenyth Platrow’s Mukuta Yoga 


By Marc Boney M.A. 


Copyright: All Rights Reserved 2013 


Dedicated to 
Shri K.N. Rao 


Who ignited in me the light of Jyotisha 


“Jyotisha is the art of seeing light, of guiding, of counseling based on the truth called the 
horoscope. Jyotisha is the pathway to God through the mazes of intuitions and the 
brilliance of an organized science, like any other science. Jyotisha is the fusion of the 
divine with the mundane, the metaphysical with the scientific methodology, a divine 
chorus of the music of the heavens and the dance of the stars. It is that divine ballet, 
Jyotisha, which is at once both a divinity and science that we are presenting.” 


AstrologyKRS 


Saturated Experience 


When I first met K.N. Rao, I was astonished at his ability to see very specific events in a person’s life 
based solely on their birth chart. I had my own experience of this with him, and then was witness to 
numerous other demonstrations of his skill on the charts of people well known to me. Oftentimes 
people would come away from such consultations declaring that “he must be psychic,” something that he 
found rather amusing. Whereas I believe innate intuitive gifts refined through spiritual practice certainly 
played a part, I also came to realize that his ability resulted from what he called “saturated experience.” 


What he meant by this was that over a period of decades he had worked on so many birth charts, 
carefully noting what events happened when and the planetary patterns that gave rise to such events, that 
when a similar pattern appeared in a chart he was reading, he would recognize it. It is rather like a 
highly experienced doctor who has become very skillful in diagnosing diseases because the particular 
symptom patterns that he is seeing in patients are ones that he has seen before. 


His advice to me back then as someone who wanted to develop good predictive skills was to examine 
hundreds if not thousands of charts of individuals over a period of 10 years in relation to their life 
events. I did that, and though I still don’t have his predictive skill, I feel at least that I am moving in that 
direction. Yet the “saturated experience” of which he spoke has come to my aid at times, most recently 
when I was visiting him in New Delhi, India 


The Bollywood Actress Turned Astrologer 


IZ 


AstrologyKRS 


I had not seen K.N. Rao face to face for 16 years. The school that he founded, the Institute of Astrology, 
Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, was hosting an International Course in October of 2012 and I thought this 
would be a good occasion to re-connect with him. In his opening address at the inauguration of this 
event he was gracious enough to acknowledge me as well as others, including a lovely and vivacious 
woman astrologer from Mumbai 


She introduced herself during the first luncheon and I invited her to dine with me. As will naturally 
happen when two astrologers meet, we exchanged information about out birth charts in the course of the 
conversation. She also shared with me that earlier in her life she had been a Bollywood actress, 
appearing in films in the 1993-94 period with good reviews when she was running Jupiter-Moon. Why 
had this period and sub-period brought this distinction, was the question we discussed. One glance at her 
chart and it was quite clear to me. I had seen it all before. 


The Birth Chart of Movie Star, Gwenyth Paltrow 


The “saturated experience’ that came to my aid that day was the fact that I have worked on the charts of 
hundreds of movie stars. Repeatedly I have seen how they achieved success in their acting careers 
during the periods and sub-periods of planets connected to their 3™ house/3" lord, provided these are 
also configured in raja yogas or other favorable, fame-giving planetary combinations. (For a fuller 
exposition of these researches, see my article “Hollywood Nights’). One such chart was that of Gwenyth 
Paltrow. 

Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Mo 
Sa | Ke 


3 Ari 4 Tau 5 Gem 


6 Can 


Gwyneth Paltrow 
Wed. 9/27/1972 17:25:00 
Los Angeles, CA 


10Sco 9 Libr 8 Virg 


13 


AstrologyKRS 


For her Aquarius ascendant chart, Mars rules both the 3"! house of the dramatic arts and the 10" house 
of career. It goes to the 8 house with a very exalted 5" and 8" lord Mercury and 7" lord Sun, forming 
multiple raja yogas or angle-trine combinations. To see the underlying strength of this combination, 
note that Mercury continues to have a good dignity in the navamsha, falling in its own sign, Gemini, 
while the Sun is in its exaltation sign, Aries. It is also worthwhile to note that her ascendant is 
vargottama as is Rahu/Ketu, and that the yogakaraka planet, Venus, falls in its exaltation sign, Pisces. 
My point here is that five of her grahas are well placed in this most important of divisional charts and 
can therefore give their results very strongly. 


Navamsha (D-9) Dharma/Spouse Navamsha (D-9) Dharma/Spouse 


Ve | Su Jp Mo 

MeKe 

2 Pis 3 Ari 4 Tau 5 Gem 
Ma 
As 


1 Aqu 6 Can 


12 Cap 7 Leo 


Ra 


Sa 


pee Sag. _(10Sco 9 Libr 8 Virg 


The view from Chandra lagna shows the potential for great success in the dramatic arts as well, and 
rather more clearly. Here we find an exchange between the 1% lord Venus and the 3" lord Moon, with 
the later falling in its exaltation sign, Tauras. Moreover, this 3! lord Moon is with the 10" lord of career 
and yogakaraka planet for Taurus /agna, Saturn. This is the classic combination I have seen over and 
over again in the charts of movie stars. A powerful 3" lord connected to the 10" lord/10" house plus 
raja yoga. Note also from this angle the involvement of the artistic grahas, Venus and the Moon and 
artistic rashis,Taurus and Cancer. This shows that the “talent” and “performance” indicated by the 3"¢ 
house/3" lord will be in an artistic direction versus, say, an athletic one, which would be more likely if 
natural malefics and the signs of malefics were predominant. 


All these patterns were very familiar to me when I first looked at her chart back in 2000 after she won an 
Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance in “Shakespeare in Love.” What was rather 
surprising at first, however, was that she achieved this peak of success as an actress in Rahu-Moon. The 
Moon giving these kinds of results as the antardasha lord was clear enough from what was just outlined 
above. And Rahu, vargottama in the 11" house of honors, giving the results of the 11" lord Jupiter, 


14 


AstrologyKRS 


strong in its own sign Sagittarius, made perfect sense as well. But it was the unfavorable 6-8 
relationship between these two planets that was puzzling at first. Then it dawned on me...Mukuta Yoga. 


Mukuta Yoga 


In the classical texts of Jyotisha, there are a whole set of yogas involving the Moon and Jupiter that are 
said to give rise to various results, both favorable and unfavorable. Well-known and notable among 
these are: 


Jupiter falling in an angle from the Moon, referred to as Gajakesari Yoga or “Elephant-Lion 
Combination.” Under the right conditions it can give prominence and enduring fame. 


Jupiter falling in the dussthana houses, 6", 8", or 12", from the Moon, referred to as “Shakata Yoga” or 
“Bullock Cart Combination.” If the Moon is not in angle and there are not other modifying factors, it 
can give rise to very fluctuating fortunes, a lot of up and downs, slow progress and many 
disappointments in life. 


The major exception to this latter, unfavorable combination is when Jupiter falls in the 6" or 8 house 
from the Moon in its own or exaltation sign. This changes the results entirely, and gives a very 
favorable “Mukuta Yoga” or “Crown Combination” that can “crown” an individual with some 
distinction when the yoga becomes active in the dasha sequence. In my experience this combination is 
not typically known and recognized by most students and even some practitioners of Jyotisha. 


Look again at the chart of Gwenyth Paltrow and you will see that from her Moon in Taurus, Jupiter falls 
into the 8" house in its own sign, Sagittarius, thus forming Mukuta Yoga. The interpretive principle for 
Rahu, of course, is that it will give the results of the planets with which it is most associated and the lord 
of the sign it is in, only in an even more exaggerated way. In her case, Rahu is in Jupiter’s sign with 
Jupiter, such that to say “Rahu-Moon” is to say “Jupiter-Moon amplified.” And it was exactly in this 
period and sub-period giving the results of Mukuta Yoga that she was crowned “Queen of Hollywood 
Actresses.” 


Déja vu 


Let us return now to the former Bollywood actress turned renowned astrologer. See her chart given 
below. 


Be 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


(le As 
Ke 


Mo 


1 Pis 2 Ari 3 Tau 4 Gem 


Su 


12 Aqu 5 Can 


11 Cap 6 Leo 


Jp Ra 


| 10 Sag__ 9 Sco 8 Libr 7 Virg 


Do you see it? Can you tell what I instantly recognized as a result of having worked on Gwenyth 
Paltrow’s chart? This woman’s Moon is likewise in its exaltation sign, Taurus, and Jupiter falls in the 
8 house from there in its own sign, Sagittarius, forming a similar Mukuta Yoga. As Yogi Berra, the 
great Yankee catcher famous for his malapropisms was once quoted as saying, “/t’s déja vu all over 
again!” 


Since the Moon falls is the 3™! house of the dramatic arts and Jupiter is the 10 lord of career, it was not 
difficult to see that she gained some distinction for an artistic performance during this period. My 
“saturated experience’ of having studied the charts of so many movie stars, Gwenyth Paltrow’s in 
particular, enabled me to recognize a pattern that could mean success in the dramatic arts in Jupiter- 
Moon. 


A Tale of Two Predictions 
Of course, the yogas that are the easiest for us to recognize are ones that can be found in our own charts. 


See mine given below, and you will appreciate why I readily pick up on Mukuta Yoga in the horoscope 
of others. 


16 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Me V 


7 Pis 8 Ari 9 Tau 10 Gem 


6 Aqu 11 Can 


Marc Boney Ke 


Wed. 4/18/1951 16:54: 


Toledo, OH Mo 
5 Cap 12 Leo 

As 
Sa 


| 4 Sag 3 SCO 2 Libr 1 Virg 


From the Moon in Leo, Jupiter goes into the 8 house in its own sign, Pisces. In the first consultation I 
had with K.N. Rao in 1994 I asked him about this, thinking it was Shakata Yoga, and an unfavorable 
feature of my birth chart. He explained to me that it was quite the contrary, and that in my upcoming 
Jupiter-Moon period beginning in late 2004, I would “wear the crown.” 


Years passed and I completely forgot about this prediction. In September of 2004 I was approached by 
a group of Hatha Yoga teachers to lead a study group on the Bhagavad-Gita on which they had heard 
me speak. Thereafter a group of over 20 people began meeting at my home every Thursday evening for 
this purpose. In April of the following year, one of these evenings coincided with my birthday and the 
group threw a surprise party, honoring me with gifts etc. During the celebration, much to my surprise, a 
woman in the group came up to me and placed a wreath of flowers on my head. Instantly, Shri Rao’s 
prediction flashed through my mind—‘during this period you will wear the crown.” It had quite 
literally come true! I was running Jupiter-Moon-Jupiter. 


Fast forward now to November 2012 on the rooftop cafe of a hotel in the Pahar Ganj section of New 
Delhi. I am with a group of Russian and Japanese students attending the International Course mentioned 
at the beginning of this article. I’ve not come to teach but was persuaded by this group to hold an 
informal class in the evening. My lesson that night was on how the essence of Jyotisha is yogas and 
dashas. Yogas or planetary combinations show certain karmic potentials, and dashas or planetary 
periods show when these will manifest. I had just finished outlining to this group essentially what I’ve 
presented in this article. How the very similar Mukuta Yogas in the charts of Gwenyth Paltrow and the 
former Bollywood actress-turned-astrologer had given both of them success as an actress in the period 
and sub-periods of the planets involved, although at a very different level. And then I gave a prediction. 
Starting in early January 2013, Gwenyth Paltrow would be entering her Jupiter-Moon period. Like her 


17 


AstrologyKRS 


Rahu-Moon period, this would “activate” her Mukuta Yoga and I told the group that over the next 14 
months she would again “wear the crown.” While stopping short of predicting she would win another 
Oscar, I indicated that it would again be a period of professional distinction for her. 


As it turned out I did not have long to wait before this prediction was fulfilled. Within the April-May 
period of this year, 2013: 


She appeared on the cover of People Magazine as “The World’s Most Beautiful Person.” 


A cookbook that she wrote entitled “/t’s All Good’ became the New York Times #1 bestseller for non- 
fiction. 


Iron Man 3, a movie in which she co-starred, was released and came close to setting a box office record 
by grossing over a billion dollars globally in just 23 days. 


As a result of all this, she received intense media coverage and was highly sought after by the all the 
major talk show hosts. 


This all took place in her Jupiter-Moon-Rahu period...the three planets involved in her Mukuta Yoga. 
The astonishing science of Jyotisha had shown me that it was once again time for her ...Crowning 
Glory. 


Marc Boney 


June 2013 
Cardiff, CA 


18 


AstrologyKRS 


Technical Summary: 


It is said that “experience is the best teacher.” If you really want to learn Jyotisha and develop 
predictive skill, study intensively the charts of those well known to you or those public figures whose 
life events are well documented, provided you have an accurate birth time. With regards to every major 
event, ask yourself the question “by what interpretive principle can this event be understood?” 


Learn to recognize the different yogas given in the classical text of Jyotisha, and then see how these 
combinations can give rise to new meanings in modern era in which we live versus the feudal and 
agrarian era in which these were written. 


The over-all condition and strength of the planets forming the yoga indicate the quantum of effect. To 
gage this it is critical to see a planet’s placement in the navamsha. The favorable yogas in the chart of 
Gwenyth Paltrow are giving such a great level of fame and fortunate because so many of the grahas 
involved are vargottama, exalted or in their own sign in the birth chart or navamsha. 


Jupiter falling in the 6", 8", or 12 house from the Moon usually forms an unfavorable Shakata Yoga, 
particularly if neither Moon nor Jupiter fall in angles from the birth /agna and are afflicted. It can mean 
very fluctuating fortunes and slow progress in life like the movement of a “bullock cart.” 


However, when Jupiter falls in the 6" or 8" from the Moon in its own signs, Sagittarius or Pisces, or its 
exaltation sign, Cancer, Mukuta Yoga is formed. In the period and sub-period of the constituent planets, 
a person can receive some recognition for their endeavors. They can “wear the crown.” 


Rahu, being a chaaya graha, or “shadowy planet” with no substance of its own, takes on the qualities of 
the planets with which it is most closely associated and/or the lord of the sign it is in. If these planets 
form favorable yogas and are strong, Rahu in its major and sub-periods will give the result of the yogas, 
and oftentimes in an amplified and even stronger way than the planet itself. This will be particularly 
true if Rahu is strong as in the case of Gwenyth Paltrow’s chart where Rahu is vargottama. 


Having studied intensely hundreds of charts you will come to recognize patterns that you’ve seen before 


and what they have meant. Such saturated experience then forms a basis for making sound 
interpretations/predictions. 


19 


AstrologyKRS 


Courtesy of a King’s Courtier 


Predicting Career Rise with 
Jaimini’s Amatyakaraka 


By Marc Boney M.A. 


Copyright: All Rights Reserved 2013 


20 


2. 


oF t 
photography by Kapiel Raaj 


21 


AstrologyKRS 


Common Concerns 


Among the most frequently asked questions put to astrologers are those about career and professional 
pursuits. The ability to accurately identify times in a person’s life when they are likely to enjoy 
particular success and recognition in their chosen line of endeavor is a skill every astrologer must 
acquire. From the standpoint of the more commonly utilized methods of “Parashari’” Jyotisha, this is 
primarily a matter of identifying good quality raja and other benefic yogas and seeing their activation in 
the dasha sequence. 


However, one of the marvelous (and intimidating!) things about Jyotisha is the vast repertoire of 
techniques that it offers for considering any matter or question, and the way in which these multiple 
approaches and perspectives can be used in combination with each other to increase predictive accuracy. 
This has long been the approach taught by my jyotisha-guru, K.N. Rao, which he refers to as the 
“composite technique.” 


My own preference is for techniques that are simple, quick, and elegant. In which case, those identified 
with Maharishi Jaimini and expounded upon in his Upadesha Sutras, are among my favorite. Shri Rao 
is to be credited with fostering something of a renaissance of these techniques in the world of Jyotisha. 
In his original and seminal work “Predicting Through Jaimini’s Chara Dasha,” Mr. Rao refers to the 
use of the Amatva karaka (AmK), or planet with the second highest degrees in any sign, for making 
predictions about a person’s career life. 


This article is an elaboration and illustration of some of these techniques. 
A Very Short Course on the Jaimini System 


Most of what goes by the name of Jyotisha is really Parashari astrology, the system expounded by 
Maharishi Parashara in the Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra. However, imbedded within this work are 
several chapters giving techniques that are identified with the name of another sage, Maharishi Jaimini, 
and which are spelled out more elaborately in the Jaimini Sutras. 


Special Karakas 


A unique feature of this system is the way in which a graha takes on a special identity in a chart 
depending upon its exact degrees of longitude (irrespective of sign). For example, the planet with the 
highest degrees becomes the Atma karaka or “indicator of self,” and is therefore like unto the 1* lord of 
a chart, while the planet with the 7" highest degrees becomes the Dara karaka or “indicator of spouse,” 
like unto the 7" lord. 


Among those who practice Jaimini, some use only seven karakas, excluding Rahu and Ketu from this 
scheme, while other use eight karakas, including Rahu. See the following two verses, one from the 


Jaimini Sutras and the other from the Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra. 


“Among the seven planets from the Sun to Saturn, or among the eight including Rahu, the planet which 
has attained the highest number of degrees becomes the atmakaraka. 


22 


AstrologyKRS 


(Jaimini Sutram, translation by P.S. Shastri) 


“T now detail below the atmakaraka etc, obtainable from among the seven planets viz. the Sun to Saturn. 
Some say that Rahu will become a karaka when there is a state of similarity in terms of longitude 
between to planets. Yet some say that the eight planets including Rahu will have to be considered 
irrespective of such a state. 


(BHPS, translation by R. Santhanam) 


When doing Jaimini Jyotisha, I strictly adhere to the scheme of seven karakas, following the example of 
K.N. Rao, which I find working very satisfactorily. 


For an example of determining these special karakas, see the chart of U.S. President, George Bush Jr., 
based on chitrapaksha ayanamsha. 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Ra | Su 


9 Pis 10 Ari 11 Tau  |12 Gem 


8 Aqu 1 Can 


George Bush W. Ma 
Sat. 7/6/1946 7:26:00 
New Haven, CT 


7 Cap 2 Leo 


Ke Jp 


6 Sag 5 SCO 4 Libr 3 Virg 


ast And Degrees 
araka (AK) 28-23 


a karaka (AMK) 25-02 
eae ee epee 
i karaka (BK) 23-36 

araka (MK) 


23 


AstrologyKRS 


araka (GK) 
es ee 
araka (DK) 


When using a scheme of seven karakas it can be seen that they correspond in meaning to the first seven 
houses of the horoscope, and whereas the specific name given to each implies one primary meaning, 
each karaka should be understood to signify other meanings associated with that house as well. For 
example, the planet with the sixth highest degrees, the Gnati karaka, does not just signify the blood 
relations or “cousins” suggested by the Sanskrit work “gnati,” but also other 6th house meanings such as 
“iIIness,” “enemies,” “conflicts” etc. In the same way, the Putra karaka does not just signify children, 
but embodies other 5th house meanings, such as education, authorship, spiritual practice involving the 
use of mantra etc. 


99 66 


Sign Aspects 


Another major difference in this system is how “aspects” are determined. Unlike the familiar planetary 
“glances” used in Parashari astrology, aspects in Jaimini are between the rashis or constellations. 


The scheme is actually quite simple. 


All the moveable rashis (Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn) make aspect onto the fixed rashi (Taurus, 
Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius) except for the ones next to it. 


In turn, all the fixed rashis make aspect onto the moveable rashis except for the ones next to it. 

All the dual rashis (Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces) make aspect onto each other. 

This means that any planets in rashis of a particular category will aspect those in the rashis of the other 
category, except for the one next to them in the case of moveable and fixed rashis. For example, in the 
chart of George Bush Jr., since all dual rashis and any planets in them aspect each other: 

His Sun in the dual rashi, Gemini, aspects the Moon and Jupiter in the dual rashi, Virgo 

Conversely, Moon and Jupiter aspect the Sun 

Since moveable rashis and any planets in them aspect all fixed rashis except for the one next to it: 
Saturn, Mercury and Venus in the moveable rashi, Cancer, aspect Rahu in the fixed rashi, Taurus and 


Ketu in the fixed rashi Scorpio, as well as the 8" house, associated with the fixed rashi, Aquarius. They 
do not, however, aspect Leo containing Mars, since it is the fixed rashi next to Cancer. 


24 


AstrologyKRS 


Since all fixed rashis and any planets in them aspect all the moveable rashis accept for the one next to it: 


Rahu in Taurus aspects Saturn, Mercury and Venus in the moveable rashi, Cancer as well as the 4" 
house, Libra and the 7" house Capricorn, but not the 10" house Aries which is adjacent to it. 


Ketu in Scorpio also aspect Saturn, Mercury and Venus in Cancer, as well as the 10 house Aries and 
the 7 house Capricorn, but not the 4 house Libra, which is adjacent to it. 


See how it works? 


This different way of seeing aspects takes some getting use to, but comes very quickly with just a little 
practice. 


Signed-Based Dashas 


Dashas in the Jaimini system are also sign-based. Instead of running, say, the sixteen- year period of 
Jupiter, like in the familiar Vimshottari planetary dasha, a person will be said to run the period of Aries, 
or Scorpio or Gemini etc. 


This article features the use of Chara Dasha as presented in K.N. Rao book “Predicting through 
Jaimini’s Chara Dasha.” His method of calculating it is given in most of the prominent Vedic 
Astrology software programs. The calculations given for the example charts utilized in this article come 
from Shri Jyoti Star. 


Jaimini Raja Yogas 


There are some thirty combinations for raja yoga given in Jaimini. However, for the sake of simplicity 
when teaching beginners, I follow my teacher’s example and focus on just the conjunctions or aspects 
between the following four Jaimini karakas, and lord of the 5th house of the birth chart. 


AK - embodies the significations of the 1st house 

AMK - embodies the significations of the 2nd and 10" houses 
PK - embodies the significations of the 5th house 

DK - embodies the significations of the 7th house) 

Sth lord 


As can be seen, these combinations parallel to some degree the Parashari principle of raja yoga resulting 
from connections between kendra lords and trikona lords. 


Combinations and permutations of the above five planets in a birth chart create 10 Jaimini raja yogas. 
They are as follows: 


25 


AstrologyKRS 


10 Basic Jaimini Rajayogas 
+ 5th lord 
Pp 


t+ 5th lord 
+DK (K+ Sth lord eee 
Po 


These combinations in a birth chart show the promise of success and fame. 


However, just as in the case of Parashari raja yogas, the ultimate quality and magnitude of the success 
will depend on the strength of the planets involved, their placement by sign and house, their lordship, the 
aspects they receive, and the chart as a whole. 


Besides those mentioned above, there are some additional combinations from the Jaimini sutras that give 
taja yoga. 


The Moon and Venus together, or the Moon aspected by Venus is a rajayoga. 
If the Moon is aspected by many planets, it is an excellent rajayoga. 


Saturn kendra from the karakamsha (navamsha sign position of the atmakaraka) makes a person 
successful in their chosen line of work. 


(Note: This principle comes from sutra 20 of the second part of the first chapter of the Jaimini sutras. 
Different translators give different interpretations of how Saturn needs to be related to the karakamsha 
for the meaning to hold true.) 


As an aside, Shri. Rao bases part of his rationale for using the karakamsha in the birth chart, instead of 
the navamsha, on this sutra. His reasoning is that anyone with Saturn as the atma karaka will have 
Saturn in the karakamsha in the navamsha, and would, according to the sutra, become famous in their 
line of work. 


Of course, this is absurd, and can be easily disproved using birth charts in which Saturn is the atma 
karaka. Mr. Rao’s contends that he has only found this sutra giving results when it is applied to 
karakamsha placed in the birth chart, and that has been true in my experience as. Following the 
example of some other Jaimini scholars, Mr. Rao refers to the sign placement of the atma karaka in the 
navamsha as swamsha, and uses the term karakamsha to refer to this special lagna being applied in the 
birth chart. 


The Importance of the Navamsha 


26 


ee S 


AstrologyKRS 


After seeing these raja yogas in the birth chart, it is no less important to see what happens to them in the 
navamsha. They may evaporate; in which case the promise in the rashi may be an empty one. The 
navamsha should be examined to see: 


If there are more raja yogas or; 

If there are less raja yogas or; 

If the raja yogas have become stronger or; 
If the raja yogas have become weaker. 


The King’s Courtier 


The essentially feudal society in which Jyotisha originally flourished has bequeathed to us a rich and 
colorful, albeit archaic Sanskrit terminology. One of my favorites is the term “Amatya karaka,” which 
as we’ve seen literally means “a King’s Courtier.” What is connoted here is someone close to power or 
the ruling authority, a member of their “court,” as it were, serving in a ministerial or advisory capacity. 
A modern-day equivalent might be someone like a cabinet member or a high-government official, or in 
the corporate world, a CEO’s Board of Directors or executive team. 


The broadest definition, used by my teacher’ is “‘an important or significant person,” and this special 
karaka of Jaimini can be very useful for determining astrologically when a person’s own significance 
increases. 


The basic principle could hardly be simpler. 


Success or “elevation” in one’s profession or line of endeavor will tend to increase in periods and sub- 
periods of rashis containing the Amatya karaka (the planet with the second highest degrees). 


This will also tend to be true in periods and sub-periods of rashis from where the Amatyakaraka falls in 
9% 10" or 11" houses (especially the 10"). 


This result is particularly assured if the Amatyakaraka is involved in significant Jaimini raja yogas, 
and/or is strong and well placed (exalted, own sign etc.) in the birth chart and navamsha. 


I must emphasize immediately that the above stated predictive principle should not be taken as some 
invariable “law,” since it will not “work” in every instance. But applied intelligently, along with 


Jaimini’s raja yogas, it does become a very useful predictive tool, especially when used in coordination 
with another dasha such as Vimshottari and standard Parashari raja yogas. 


What follows are some “textbook” examples using the birth charts of well-known individuals. 


America’s King Arthur 


The chart of “Camelot” President, John F. Kennedy, illustrates this principle perfectly. 


Z/ 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1) General 


Rashi (D-1) General 


Ma 
Me 


JpVe 
Su 


Ke 


7 Pis 8 Ari 9 Tau 10 Gem 
Sa 
6 Aqu 11 Can 


John F Kennedy 
Tue. 5/29/1917 15:00:00 


Brookline, MA M O 
5 Cap vi Leo 
Ra As 
4 Sag 3 SCO 2 Libr 1 Virg 


At 27-53 Aries, his Mercury becomes his Atma karaka (AK), since it has the highest degrees of any of 
his grahas, excluding Rahu and Ketu. Mars becomes the Amatya karaka (AmK), since it is the planet in 
his chart with the second highest degrees at 25-43 of Aries. 

This conjunction in his chart of the AK and the Amk is one of the best Jaimini raja yogas, and in his 
case, Mars, the Amk, is in its own sign Aries in the birth chart and goes into its own sign Scorpio in the 
navamsha. This gives it great strength. 


According to the above stated principle, Aries periods and sub-periods should be very good for success 
and elevation in his field (politics) and Cancer periods as well, since from there the AmK falls in the 10" 


house. 


It was exactly in his Aries period, beginning in May of 1957 that he began to rise in his political party’s 
ranks, and in Aries-Cancer (May 1959 to May 1960) he won the Democratic nomination. 


The subsequent sub-period of Aries-Leo gave him the Presidency. From the standpoint of Jaimini-style 
interpretation and how the Chara dasha is to be used, see that: 


Leo receives the aspect of the Mercury-Mars (AK-AmK) combination 
Using Leo as a Jagna, the 10" house from there (Taurus) becomes so strong, showing the 1‘ lord Sun in 


the 10 with two benefics, including the 5" lord Jupiter and 10" lord Venus. The Jupiter-Sun 
combination is that of the dara karaka (DK) with the putra karaka (PK) another Jaimini raja-yoga. 


28 


AstrologyKRS 


The major period Aries and the sub-period Leo are in a benefic 5-9 relationship, (i.e. Leo falls fifth from 
Aries, and Aries falls 9 houses from Leo.) 


But Aries, the 8" house of the assassination from the birth /agna, had another, different tale of 
misfortune to tell as well. 


Tricky Dick 
Richard Nixon’s Amk also helped him to the White House 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Ra Sa 


8 Pis 9 Ari 10 Tau |11 Gem 


Ve 


7 Aqu van. 


Mo | Richard Nixon 


Thu. 1/9/1913 21:35:00 
Whittier, CA As 


6 Cap 1 Leo 


SuMe 
Jp Ma Ke 


|\5 Sag 4 Sco 3 Libr 2 Virg 


At 26-45 Sagittarius, his AmK Sun is vargottama and forms a Jaimini raja yoga with the PK Mercury. 


In 1966 he began the Chara dasha of Pisces from where the 10 house has four planets, including the 
AmK Sun. Note the significant raja yogas formed by these planets both from the Jaimini and Parashari 
point of view. Two years later he finally won the Presidency, achieving the goal that had eluded him in 
1960, only to lose it in 1974 in the tidal wave of the Watergate scandal. 


The Billionaire Monopolist 


Microsoft founder, Bill Gates, one of the most significant entrepreneurs of our times—or of any time— 
also has a raja yoga-giving conjunction of his AmK (Venus) and his AK (Saturn). In his case, the 
former is in its own sign and the later is exalted. They remain together in his navamsha in the sign of 
Great Friend. In addition, these two karakas are in mutual aspect (moveable sign to fixed sign) with the 
DK (Jupiter) in Leo, giving rise to multiple Jaimini raja yogas. It shows a great promise in the 
horoscope. 


29 


AstrologyKRS 


Dynamically, and according to the premise of this article, that promise would find its particular 
fulfillment in the Libra period (sign placement of the AmK), as well as the Aquarius, Capricorn and 
Sagittarius periods, from where the AmK Venus falls in the 9 house, 10" house, and 11" house 
respectively. 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Mo 


Ke | As 


10 Pis 11 Ari 12 Tau  |1Gem 


9 Aqu 2 Can 


Bill Gates | Jp 


Fri. 10/28/1955 21:15:00 
Seattle, WA 


8 Cap 3 Leo 


Ra Vel Me 
Sasu| Ma 


7 Sag 6 Sco 5 Libr 4 Virg 


4 


His Aquarius period in Chara Dasha, from October 1975 to 1979, saw him drop out of Harvard to found 
Microsoft. It was during this time that he assembled a team of “whiz-kid” programmers who created the 
company’s first products. Aquarius is the 9" house of his birth chart and receives the aspect (moveable 
sign to fixed sign) of the powerful AK-AmK Jaimini raja-voga formed by Venus and Saturn in Libra. 
This conjunction falls in the 9" from Aquarius. 


The following three-year Capricorn period, from where the conjunction of the AmK and AK falls in the 
10" house was the most significant in terms of the company’s development and future. It was during 
this time that Gates secured the deal with IBM to provide the operating system for their new line of 
personal computers. MS-DOS subsequently became the industry standard. This made Gates and 
Microsoft enormously wealthy and is what established them initially as the major player in the software 
industry. This significant period saw the beginning of the fulfillment of Gates’ monopolist vision of “a 
personal computer on every desk running operated by Microsoft software.” 


The subsequent period of Sagittarius ran from fall of 1982 to fall of 1990. From here both the 11" and 
10" house become incredibly strong, both from the conventional and special karaka point of view. 


30 


AstrologyKRS 


Microsoft’s success skyrocketed, making Gates a software tycoon with an enormous personal fortune 
and the subject of an April 1984 Time Magazine cover story. His wealth, power, and status were a 
continuous, steep upward curve during this time. 


It is interesting to note that in the subsequent period of Scorpio, from where the AmK falls in the 12" 
house, Microsoft, although still expanding and enormously successful, was sued by the U.S. government 
for violation of anti-trust laws, lost the initial judgment, and was ordered to be broken up. 


Yet, beginning in the fall of 2000, Gates began his Libra period, which will last a full 12 years and is the 
sign containing the AmK with the AK. This suggests that he and Microsoft will not be fading from the 
scene anytime soon. Libra-Capricorn, which is a one-year period from fall of 2002 to 2003, should be 
particularly noteworthy for achievement. At the time of writing this article (May 2001), a headline in a 
prominent business publication proclaimed “Microsoft Stronger Than Ever.” 


The Raging Bull 
Beginning in the early 70’s actor Robert De Niro electrified movie-going audiences with a series of 
intense, riveting screen performances that earned him two academy awards and two nominations for 


Best Actor. 


Like John F. Kennedy and Bill Gates, his AK Venus at 27-26 Leo and AmK Mercury at 25-4 are 
conjunct in his birth chart. 


They fall in De Niro’s 3" house of acting with the DK Sun, who is also the 3"¢ lord of this chart. Note 
also that from the Parashari point of view, the combination of Mercury and Venus is a first-rate raja 
yoga, it being a conjunction of the 5" lord Venus with the 1% and 4" lord Mercury. 

Again, all of this shows a very great promise that waited to be fulfilled in the dasha sequence. 
According to the theory under investigation, the appropriate Chara dashas are: 

Sagittarius (from where the AmK falls in the 9" house) 

Scorpio (from where the AmK falls in the 10" house) 

Libra (from where the AmK falls in the 11" house) 

Leo (which contains the AmK) 


These should all be exceptional for giving him success and recognition in his field of endeavor, acting. 


31 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Ma / Sa 


RaJp 


10 Pis 11 Ari 12 Tau  |1 Gem 


Mo Jp 


9 Aqu 2 Can 


Ke | RobertDeNiro |SU Ve 


Tue. 8/17/1943 3:00:00 
Brooklyn, NY M e 


8 Cap 3 Leo 


| Sag 6 Sco 5 Libr 4 Virg 


He entered his Sagittarius dasha in August of 1971 and during this period he won an Oscar for Best 
Supporting Actor for his performance as a young Don Corleone in the Godfather, Part IT (1974). This 
triumph was followed by a nomination for Best Actor for Taxi Driver (1976). 


In August of 1978 he moved into the Chara dasha of Scorpio from where the raja yoga-giving 
combination of the Amk (Mercury), AK (Venus), and DK (Sun) all fall in the 10" house. In addition, 
the Sun is the 10" lord in its own sign/house. He was again nominated for Best Actor for his role in the 
Deerhunter (1978) 


It was during this period also that he gave his most unforgettable performance as boxer Jack LaMotta in 
Raging Bull (1980), for which he won the Oscar for Best Actor. 


The award actually came in the subsequent period of Libra, from where the 11" house of honors, gains, 
and recognitions contains the AmK and becomes otherwise so strong. 


Parenthetically, this career peak occurred in Mercury-Venus in Vimshottari, the dasha and antardasha 
of the two planets forming raja yoga in the 3" house of acting and with the 3" lord. 


Starting in 1991, De Niro entered his Leo period, which lasts a full 12 years, and his career has 
continued to flourish in such films as Cape Fear (1991) and Casino (1995), to mention only a few. 
Since the Leo period continues until late 2003, my prediction would be that his star will continue to 
shine, especially as he just entered his Venus period in Vimshottari, which gives substantial raja-yoga 
both from the birth /agna and the Moon. 


a2 


AstrologyKRS 


Olympic Gold Rush 


In the annals of athletic competition, few feats have ever matched the seven gold medals won by 
American swimming champion, Mark Spitz in the 1972 Summer Olympics. 


Again, the AmK falling 10" from the period lord and configured in significant Jaimini raja yogas tells 
the story very clearly. 


In early 1968, Mark Spitz moved in his Chara dasha of Scorpio, from where his AmK Saturn falls in the 
10" house, Leo. Unlike the previous examples, it is not conjunct his AK, which for his chart is the Sun. 
However, examine their mutual positions very closely. Saturn is in the Sun’s sign Leo, and the Sun is in 
Saturn sign Capricorn, forming an exchange (parivarthana yoga), the strongest way two planets can be 
connected. Moreover, they are in mutual aspect since all fixed signs aspect all moveable signs and vice 
versa, except for the ones next to them. 


In addition, from its position in the 10" house from Scorpio, the AmK Saturn in Leo receives aspect 
from all the planets in Capricorn, not just the Sun, and in this case these planets are all the natural 
benefics, Jupiter, Venus and Mercury. From Scorpio, the period lord, the 3™ house of efforts, 
performance and physical prowess, and the 10 house of achievements get tremendous emphasis, 
including the activation of the AmK Saturn and AK Sun raja yoga. It was an unparalleled period of 
athletic glory. 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Ra 


MaKe 


8 Pis 9 Ari 10 Tau |11 Gem 


7 Aqu rare 


Su Ve AS 
JpMe| MamerPlZ | Sa 


Modesto, CA 
6 Cap 1 Leo 


Ma 
Mo Ke 


|\5 Sag 4 Sco 3 Libr 2 Virg 


However, as we will see, the Amk need not always be configured in Jaimini raja yogas in the birth chart 
to give great success and recognition. 


33 


AstrologyKRS 


The Zen Buddhist of Basketball 


In the world of sports, Los Angeles Lakers coach, Phil Jackson, is unique. An outspoken advocate of the 
spiritual tradition of Zen Buddhism, he has been known to burn sage in the locker room to dispel 
negativity, and has written a book entitled Sacred Hoops. He is also unique in that he is among the few 
individuals who have won NBA championships both as a player and a coach. 


Focus in on his AmK, which in his chart is his Venus in Cancer. 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


RaSa 


3 Pis 4 Ari 5 Tau 6 Gem 


2 Aqu 7 Can 


AS | Phil Jackson 
Mo | *szsa en | Me 
1 Cap 8 Leo 


Ke Su 


\12Sag__|11 Sco 10 Libr __[9 Virg 


It is not with any planets, nor is it aspected by any since there are no planets in fixed rashis, except the 
one next to it, Leo. 


However, see the position of the Amk Venus in the navamsha. 


34 


AstrologyKRS 


Navamsha (D-9) Dharma/Spouse Navamsha (D-9) Dharma/Spouse 


Ve / Jp 
Mo | As Sa 


12Pis {1 Ari 2 Tau 3 Gem 


Ke 

11 Aqu 4 Can 
7 

Ma Su 


10 Cap 5 Leo 


Me 


|\9 Sag 8 Sco 7 Libr 6 Virg 


Here the AmK Venus is exalted and with the Moon (a special Jaimini raja yoga) and in mutual aspect 
with the AK Saturn (all dual signs aspect each other). 


Beginning in the fall of 1968 Phil Jackson began his Libra period, from where the AmK Venus falls in 
the 10 house. He was a defensive specialist and rebounder for the New York Knickerbockers at this 
time. A year and a half later, the Knicks won the NBA championship, the peak of his career as a player. 


Fast-forward twenty years later to 1989 when he moves into the Cancer period, the sign position of his 
AmK Venus. Shortly thereafter Jackson assumed the head coaching position for the Chicago Bulls. He 
convinced Michael Jordan to be more of team player and coached the team to three consecutive NBA 
titles during this period. 


Femme De Jour 

Actress Catherine Zeta-Jones exploded upon the Hollywood scene in the late 90’s, playing opposite 
Antonio Banderas in The Mark of Zorro and Sean Connery in Entrapment. Mostly recently she 
appeared with her husband, Michael Douglas in the Oscar winning film, 7raffic and graced the cover of 
People Magazine’s “Fifty Most Beautiful” Issue. 


From the standpoint of Jyvotisha—and the interpretative principle being illustrated here—her stardom 
during this period could not be more obvious and predictable. 


See her chart given below and focus in on the planets in Virgo 


35 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Mo | Sa 


4 Pis 5 Ari 6 Tau 7 Gem 


Ra 


3 Aqu 8 Can 


Catherine Zeta-Jones Ve 
Thu. 9/25/1969 14:50:00 


Swansea, UK Ke 
2 Cap 9 Leo 


Ma Me 
As Jp Su 


1 Sag 12Sco__|11 Libr _|10 Virg 


Her AmK Mercury at 16-43 of Virgo is within two degrees of its highest point of exaltation in Virgo. In 
the navamsha it goes into its own sign, Gemini. 


It also just happens to be her 10" lord in the 10" house configured in spectacular raja yogas both from 
the Parashari and Jaimini point of view. 


In terms of the standard, Parashara kendra-kona combinations, see that: 


The 10 lord Mercury combining with the 9" lord Sun in the 10 house gives a very powerful Dharma- 
Karma Raja Yoga. 


The 10" lord Mercury combining with the 1‘ lord Jupiter in the 10 house gives an equally powerful 1- 
10 raja yoga. 


The 9" lord Sun combining with the 1‘ lord Jupiter in the 10" gives another powerful raja yoga. 


Needless to say, this is a dramatic promise for fame, and this promise gets confirmed from the Jaimini 
point of view. 


The Amk Mercury is conjunct the AK Jupiter 
This raja yoga combination becomes multiple due to the mutual aspect with the PK Mars and DK 
Moon. 


Mars is also the 5" lord of this chart, such that all the potential raja yoga forming special karakas in her 
chart are in mutual aspect with each other (since all planets in dual rashis aspect each other) 


36 


AstrologyKRS 


At the beginning of this article I indicated that the AmK is a quick and elegant tool for predicting 
periods of distinction—especially when used in combination with the more familiar Vimshottari dasha 
and standard Parashara principles of raja yoga. 


The chart of Catherine Zeta-Jones is a perfect example. In 1997 she moved into her Chara dasha of 
Virgo, her 10" house, and the sign placement of her exalted AmK Mercury, configured in spectacular 
Jaimini raja yogas. 


Simultaneously in Vimshottari, she began her Mercury-Jupiter period, which also gives the fruit of 
spectacular Parashari raja yogas. When you see this kind of confluence, a prediction of “elevation” 
becomes a sure bet. 


This Virgo period has also brought her a husband and child, which is again very obvious. From Virgo, 
her darakaraka Moon (indicator of spouse) goes into the 7 house Pisces. Her putrakaraka Mars (who 
is also the 5" lord) aspects Virgo as well. 


These events are readily apparent in Vimshottari as well, since Mercury is also her 7" lord. Her 
relationship with Douglas began in Mercury-Jupiter, and she gave birth to their child in Mercury-Saturn, 
the later falling in the 5" house from her birth lagna. 


Predictions Using the AmK 


I have given seven examples now of individuals achieving great success and fame during Chara dasha 
periods of signs containing the AmK, or from where the Amk falls in the 10" house. I could have given 
100. But this kind of retrospective analysis—while instructive—is ultimately meaningless unless the 
technique being demonstrated can also then be used to accurately predict. 


What follows then are five predictions where this technique was employed that subsequently proved 
correct. 


Election 2000 


In March of 2000 I published an article on the internet giving my analysis of why I thought George Bush 
would win the upcoming election. The prediction came out correctly, although my favored candidate 
lost. The article emphasized that I found the election period itself “too close to call,” and predicted a 
Bush victory based on the subsequent inaugural period. 


Poor Al Gore, since November 2000 he has been left with the bitter reflection that few men have ever 


come closer to the White House and not occupied it. Political pundits had seen the election as “his to 
lose” and he did. 


However, his winning of the Democratic nomination, the popular vote in the election and his near 
victory did represent a peak in his political career, and the Amk along with the Chara dasha does have a 
story to tell this way. 


oT 


AstrologyKRS 


He was running his Sagittarius period—one notorious in Chara dasha for raising an individual to great 
heights, but also for precipitating a great fall. From here, his Amk Mercury in Aquarius is not 
particularly well situated, falling in the 3" house. 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Ve 


Su | Ra 


9 Pis 10 Ari 11 Tau |12 Gem 


Me AsMa 
Sa 


8 Aqu 1 Can 


Al Gore 


Wed. 3/31/1948 12:53:00 
Washington, DC 


7 Cap 2 Leo 


Mo Ke 


Jp Mo 


However, the sub-period during the campaign and election was Taurus, from where the AmK falls in the 
10", and receives the aspect of the AK Mars, giving that powerful Jaimini raja yoga and showing his 
prominence at this time. Not strong enough, however. 


|\6 Sag 5 Sco 4 Libr 3 Virg 


He was running Rahu-Saturn in Vimshottari when he contested the election, but I saw that he would be 
in Rahu-Mercury at the time when the inauguration would normally occur. With Mercury falling the 8" 
house of humiliation and “reversal of fortunes” and not forming any good yogas, it looked like his 
political demise to me. 


Note that both Kennedy and Gore have their AmK in the 8" house, draw some inferences and then test 
them on additional charts of politician with similar placements/experiences. 


Now see both the birth chart and navamsha of the winner, Bush. 


38 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Ra | Su 


9 Pis 10 Ari 11 Tau |12 Gem 


8 Aqu 1 Can 


George Bush W. Ma 
Sat. 7/6/1946 7:26:00 
New Haven, CT 


7 Cap 2 Leo 


Ke Jp 


|\6 Sag 5 Sco 4 Libr 3 Virg 


Navamsha (D-9) Dharma/Spouse Navamsha (D-9) Dharma/Spouse 


Ke | Su 
Ve 


5 Pis 6 Ari 7 Tau 8 Gem 


4 Aqu 9 Can 


Sa Jp 
MoMa 


3 Cap 10 Leo 


Me | As Ra 


|\2 Sag 1 Sco 12 Libr |11 Virg 


He won the election and was inaugurated in the Chara dasha period of Libra-Scorpio. 


From Libra see how extraordinarily strong the 10" house Cancer becomes, both from a conventional 
Parashari raja yoga point of view, and from the standpoint of Jaimini raja yogas. It has the AK Venus, 


39 


AstrologyKRS 


the PK Mercury and the DK Saturn, giving multiple raja yogas. Contrary to what is being presented in 
this article, the Amk Jupiter is not part of this configuration, and, in fact, falls in the 12" house from the 
period lord, Libra. 


However, this is where the picture in the birth chart must be synthesized with that of the navamsha. 
Here, the AmK Jupiter falls in the 11 from Libra and forms a Jaimini raja yoga with the DK Saturn. 


But then see things from the sub-period rashi, Scorpio. In the birth chart, the AmK falls in the 11" 
house from here, and in the navamsha the AmK falls in the 10 house forming raja yoga. 


This picture, along with the advent of Saturn-Rahu in Vimshottari at the time when the inauguration 
would normally occur, convinced me that Bush would emerge the winner. 


Saraswati Incarnate 


I once heard it said that the essence of Jyotisha is yogas and dasha, with the former indicating what a 
person was likely to experience based on their past life actions (karma) and the latter showing when. The 
deeper I go into Jyotisha more I realize the truth of this statement. See, for example, the chart of a 
woman whose whole life from a very early age has been almost entirely focused on classical music, 
violin performance, and musical education. 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


Rasa 
Ve 


7 Pis 8 Ari 9 Tau 10 Gem 


Su 


6 Aqu 11 Can 


Me 
5 Cap 12 Leo 

Mo y Jp 
Ma AsKe 


4 Sag 3 SCO 2 Libr 1 Virg 


40 


AstrologyKRS 


Navamsha (D-9) Dharma/Spouse 


Navamsha (D-9) 


Dharma/Spouse 


Ke Sa Jp As 
Me 
10 Pis 11 Ari 12 Tau |1Gem 
Ma 
9 Aqu 2 Can 
8 Cap 3 Leo 
Ve 
Mo Su | Ra 
Sag |6 Sco |S Libr__—[4 Virg 


Her chart is dominated by a Saraswati Yoga, which includes an exalted Venus, and holds true from both 
the birth /agna and the Moon. It is defined by the three natural benefics Jupiter, Venus and Mercury all 
placed in the angles, trines, or 2"! house. Some definitions expand this to include the 11" house, and 
using this more expanded definition, this yoga re-occurs in her navamsha as well. 


Saraswati is the Vedic deity of knowledge, wisdom and classical education, and especially of literature, 
music and the arts. She is always depicted holding a veena or stringed instrument. This yoga is said 
therefore to strongly incline an individual in this direction. 


This young woman had a stellar educational career, winning scholarships and completing two Masters 
degrees with honors in violin performance and literature. As an undergraduate she was selected to tour 
with Leonard Bernstein in a youth orchestra as well. Upon graduation she became the headmistress of a 
special classical music school for children but left it to pursue her dream of being a violin soloist. 


When I met her in 1995 she was somewhat ‘down and out” and feeling like a failure, even considering 
giving up her musical career altogether. Based on her AmK, Jaimini raja yogas, and the Chara dasha | 
encouraged her to persevere because it looked as if some measure of success and fame was right around 
the corner. 


Her AmK is the Moon in Sagittarius and her AK is Saturn in Pisces and they are in mutual aspect (since 
they both fall in dual rashis). They are also both vargottama! These planets therefore form a powerful 
Jaimini raja yoga in both the birth chart and navamsha and have great strength. 


41 


AstrologyKRS 


What is more, she was running the Sagittarius period when I met her—the sign containing her AmK— 
and well known for elevating a person. Additionally, this rashi in the navamsha contains the special 
Moon-Venus Jaimini raja-yoga. 


Since in Vimshottari she was running Rahu, which also shows the potential for raja yoga from the 
conventional Parashari point of view, to me it was more just a question of which sub-periods would give 
the elevation. 


I suggested to her that in Sagittarius-Pisces in 1998 (the sign of the AmK and the sign from where the 
AmkK falls in the 10") that she would become a star. It would be Rahu-Saturn in Vimshottari, which is a 
Parashari raja yoga in her chart. 


Unexpectedly, in March of 1997 she was offered a six-month contract with a small orchestra in 
Germany. This led to her creating and performing some highly original concerts aimed at both 
entertaining and educating children in classical music. These have made her a local celebrity where she 
has been the subject of numerous newspaper and magazine articles. She’s appeared on TV, made 
several CDs and her concerts draw in the thousands. 


This prediction—tmy first use of the AmK to predict professional rise—was one of the more satisfying 
of my astrological career. 


An Anxious Father 


The periods of rashis merely aspected by the Amk can also be used effectively to time career 
developments, as the following illustrates. 


The story of this prediction began with a phone call from an anxious father, himself a student of 
Jyotisha, whose 19 year old son had made the decision to temporarily forego further higher education 
(he completed a year at UCLA) in order to get some experience in the world of work. 


In high school the young man had been very involved in the Unitarian Church, taking on leadership 
roles in the official Youth Group of that organization. He had applied for a position with the national 
headquarters in Boston to become the director/coordinator for the Church’s Youth Group programs 
nationwide, a position that would last one year and require considerable travel. The position had a 
salary associated with it that would be considered quite reasonable given his age and level of education. 
It would also necessitate him relocating from San Diego to Boston and was due to begin in January 
1999. 


One of the things that intrigued me this case, is that it would be an instance where someone would be 
earning there first salary. Col. A.K. Gour, a faculty member at the astrological school that K.N. Rao 
founded in Delhi, gives the results of researches done on this very question in his fine book entitled 
“Professions.” 


42 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1) General Rashi (D-1) General 


2 Ari 3 Tau 4 Gem 


Su | Ve 


9 Sco 8 Libr 7 Virg 


The principles for seeing an individual’s first salary from the Jaimini perspective as given in this book 
are as follows: 


The AmK should influence the dasha/antardasha or be in the 10" or 11" from them. 


Among the karakas, the ones that give gains are the AK, AmK, PK, DK and 5" lord. Two or more of 
these should be aspecting the dasha/antardasha. 


At the time the person begins to receive the first salary, the AmK should by transit aspect the 
dasha/antardasha or be in the 10" or 11" from it. 


I noted that the young man was running the Chara dasha of Taurus-Cancer. 

His AK is Mercury in Scorpio. It falls in a kendra from the period rashi Taurus and trikona from the 
sub-period rashi Cancer. Since fixed signs aspect moveable signs, his Amk aspected Cancer. Note also 
that Cancer is the 5 house of children and education in the birth chart and contains an exalted Jupiter, 


natural karaka of religious organizations. 


Cancer is also aspected by the 5" lord Moon, it’s own ruler, such that the antardasha lord is aspected by 
both the Amk and the 5" lord, fulfilling the second principle as well. 


The Amk Mercury would be transiting Capricorn when he received his first paycheck, and Capricorn, a 
moveable rashi, aspects the dasha lord Taurus, a fixed sign. 


These principles supported the idea of a newly established income stream during the Cancer sub-period. 


43 


AstrologyKRS 


See also how from the Jaimini point of view, the 10" house from the sub-period lord Cancer gets the 
aspect of all the planets in the fixed signs—six in total—including the Ak Saturn and the Amk Mercury, 
a strong Jaimini raja-yoga combination. This too supports the obtainment of a position during this sub- 
period and this was confirmed by what was indicated in Vimshottari. I predicted that he would be 
offered the job and was gratified when it proved correct. 


Having now illustrated how the AmK and Jaimini’s Chara dasha can be used effectively to give 
accurate predictions about career rise, I will conclude this article by showing its use in a future 
prediction concerning ex-First Lady, now U.S. Senator, Hillary Clinton. 


Hillary’s Career Peak? 


I once heard a joke about Bill and Hillary Clinton that made me laugh because it speaks to a commonly 
held perception. 


As the joke goes, the First Couple are visiting friends back where Hillary grew up and they stop at a gas 
station. Hillary recognizes from the car that one of the attendants is a man she once dated in high school 
and even considered marrying. 


As they drive away Bill notices that Hillary has tears in her eyes and asks her what’s wrong. She sighs 
and says, “/t’s so sad.” After a pregnant pause, Bill inquires, “What's so sad?” Hillary replies, “That 
man back there as the gas station...he could have been President.” 


From biographical material that I’ve read on Bill and Hillary Clinton, both were enormously ambitious 
when they met as law students, and saw in each other a mate that was not only compatible with that 
ambition but also a means to fulfilling it. Whereas Bill Clinton is recognized as one of the most skillful 
politicians of the modern era (he had to be to survive his own foibles), Hillary Clinton is no less a 
political force to be reckoned according to those who know her. 


Thus, it came as no big surprise to anyone that when her role as First Lady was winding down, she 
began to position herself to run for the U.S. Senate, which she was elected to last fall—amid all the 


accusations of “‘interloper” since she choose to run in New York. 


Some have speculated that her real ambitions lie even higher, and in this regard it is interesting to 
consider her birth chart and the times ahead. 


44 


Rashi (D-1) General 


AstrologyKRS 


Rashi (D-1 


) General 


SaMa 


Mo 


10 Pis 


11 Ari 


Ra 


12 Tau 


9 Aqu 


8 Cap 


Hilary Clinton 
11947 20:00:00 
Chicago, IL 


Sun. 10/2 


3 Leo 


Ve 
Me Su 


© Libr 


4 Virg 


Navamsha (D-9) 


Dharma/Spouse 


Ve 


Me 


5 Ari 6 Tau 7 Gem 
Ke 
8 Can 
Mo 
9 Leo 
12Sco_|11 Libr _|10 Virg 


Looking at it from the conventional view first, she became First Lady in her Venus period in 
Vimshottari, which will continue to run until December of 2006. 


45 


AstrologyKRS 


Venus is in its own sign in both the rashi and the navamsha, and as the 5" lord in the 5" with the 1% lord 
Mercury, forms a superior raja yoga. Venus-Mercury is still to come (12/02 to 10/05). Interestingly, 
this period coincides with another national election in the fall of 2004. 


What’s fascinating to me about this timing in Vimsottari is the way in which it runs parallel to her Libra 
period in Chara dasha. Libra contains her AmK Mercury, forming a Jaimini raja yoga with the PK Sun. 
Also, her AmK Mercury is in its own sign in the navamsha, forms Jaimini raja yogas with the PK Sun 
again and also the AK Saturn, and falls in the 9 house from the current major period of Libra, which is 
due to last until 2007. 


This is an intriguing picture that suggests that Hillary Clinton’s career star has not yet peaked. Could it 
mean the chairmanship of some powerful Senate committee? A Cabinet post if the Democrats win back 
the White House? Possibly even a Vice-Presidential nomination? 


Of course, based on astrology alone, there is no way to know for sure. I do predict, however, that Hillary 
Rodman Clinton will reach even greater heights in the coming years—Courtesy of a King’s Courtier. 


All Praise to the Rishis and their Divine Science of Jyotisha 
Marc Boney 


May 2001 
San Diego 


(Note: This article was written in May of 2001. Later, Hillary was elected for a second term as U.S. 
Senator from New York and in January 2009 was made Secretary of State in the cabinet of President 
Barrack Obama.) 


46 


AstrologyKRS 


Technical Summary 


Given the ubiquitous concerns about career life, it is helpful for an astrologer to have a wide variety of 
techniques for dealing with such questions. 


K.N. Rao and his research teams in Delhi have shown how Jaimini’s Amatyakaraka can be used to in a 
variety of ways to address these. 


This article has focused on just one. Using Jaimini’s Chara dasha, the periods containing the AmK, or 
from where the Amk falls in the 10 house will oftentimes signal a rise in a person’s professional 
fortunes. 


This will be particularly true if the AmK is configured in Jaimini raja yogas, especially ones involving 
the AK-AmK combination. 


When assessing such potentials, all the standard principles of interpretation with respect to planetary 
strength and over-all planetary disposition, as well as the use of the navamsha, need to be taken in 


account. 


Such indications should be “cross-checked” with parallel timing in Vimshottari. If both systems show 
the strong potential for a precipitous rise at a particular time, greater predictive accuracy is insured. 


Bear in mind that no “timing technique” will ever give what does not first exist as a potential in the birth 
chart as a whole, so apply this technique intelligently not blindly. 


47 


AstrologyKRS 


About the Author 


Marc Boney M.A. is an internationally renowned astrological teacher, writer and consultant. He has 
been involved since 1974 with the integration of the ancient wisdom of astrology with the counseling 
arts. He received his training in Jyotisha primarily from K.N. Rao, one of the world’s foremost Vedic 
astrologers. His focus is on using the Vedic system to help guide people in their lives, as well as training 
others. 


Marc has been a featured speaker at international conferences, is a faculty member of the American 
College of Vedic Astrology, and was the main presenter on Jyotisha at the Chopra Center for Well- 
Being from 2000 to 2002. He is the author of 50 articles on this topic, and two soon-to-be published 
books. 


The Institute of Astrology, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, of New Delhi, India honored Marc with a 
Distinguished Service Award for his contributions to the advancement of Vedic Astrology in the West. 


48 


AstrologyKRS 


Marc recently founded the Pacific Institute of Vedic Science, which will be offering quality educational 
programs in Yoga, Ayurveda, and Jyotisha in the San Diego area where he lives. 


Prior to his current full-time involvement with these Vedic sciences, Marc held positions in the 
corporate world as a Director of Human Resources, Outplacement Consultant, and Leadership 


Consultant. 


Marc holds an MA in Counseling Psychology and a BA in English Literature from Northwestern 
University in Chicago, Illinois. 


He is a practitioner of Transcendental Meditation since 1971 and later trained as a teacher and taught 
TM in the late 70’s. 


Visit his web-site at www.marcboney.com or contact him at marc@marcboney.com 


49 


AstrologyKRS 


Dancing with the waves: Vaugh Paul Manley 


50 


AstrologyKRS 


The Spark of Passion and the 5 House 
by Vaughn Paul Manley, MA 


For most people, if they could pull off making a living doing what they loved, they would. 
There’s plenty of advice out there that encourages us to follow our passion and live an 
inspired life, but how often do we associate these qualities with the 5° house? Not often 
enough, in my opinion. Yet, that is exactly what we should do, because the 5 house 
represents our spark of passion. Why? Let’s take a look. 


The Dharma Houses and the Fire Element 


The 5th house is a trinal or trikona house and as such is a member of the Dharma 
House Trine - 1, 5, and 9. Dharma means life purpose. When we'’re living in accordance 
with the dharma houses we’re motivated because our life has meaning and purpose. 
These are considered “fire houses,” because they correspond to the fire signs Aries, 
Leo, and Sagittarius respectively. When we're aligned to our dharma, we’re on fire, 
excited, our passion is sparked, and we feel moved by spirit. The word inspire comes 
from the Latin word spirare, the root word of spirit, to breathe life into. So the dharma 
houses can show us what would help us live feel alive, connected to spirit, and inspired. 
We need that spark to feel motivated enough to overcome the obstacles we'll inevitably 
face. 


nice 
t 


SHIM 
Ae 


“When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all your 
thoughts break their bonds: Your mind transcends limitations, your consciousness 
expands in every direction, and you find yourself in a new, great and wonderful world. 
Dormant forces, faculties and talents become alive, and you discover yourself to be a 
greater person by far than you ever dreamed yourself to be.” ~ Sage Patanjali in The 
Mahabhasya 


eal 


AstrologyKRS 


"Don't ask yourself what the world needs; ask yourself what makes you come alive. And 
then go and do that. Because what the world needs is people who have come alive." ~ 
Harold Whitman 


The Dharma Houses as Opposite the Kama Houses 

The kama or desire houses, 3, 7, and 11, are opposite the dharma houses, 1, 5 and 9. 
The kama houses ask, “What do | want to do?” while the dharma houses ask, “What 
should | do?” or “What am | called to do?“ The kama houses are also social or “air 
houses,” corresponding to the air signs, Gemini, Libra and Aquarius respectively. 
Therefore, the question of “What do | want to do?” is usually within a social context. 
Whereas, the dharma houses ask, “What am | called to do?“ within the larger context of 
one’s life purpose, which the fire element represents. It’s a much deeper question 
searching for what makes our life meaningful, rather than just pursuing the fulfillment of 
desires. 


The Dharma Houses as Friendly to the Ascendant 


The ascendant or 1st house is the most important house, not only within the Dharma 
House Trine, but also among all the twelve houses. It’s the starting point for interpreting 
a chart, and constant reference point, because it’s the house of the self, identity, and 
one’s main character traits. It’s the filter or window through which all other houses can 
be seen. 


The other two dharma houses, 5 and 9, are considered friendly to the ascendant, being 
of the same sign element. For instance, if your ascendant is an earth sign, then the 5" 
and 9" houses will also be earth signs. Also, the three dharma house lords will always 
be members of the same family of natural friends. The two families of natural friends 
are: Saturn, Venus, Mercury and Jupiter, Mars, Sun and Moon. Therefore, the 5 and 
9" houses will always compliment the ascendant. They will be the most beneficial 
house lords, along with the 1° lord, due to their collective status as the temporal or 
functional benefics in the chart. Therefore, if you can identify any houses as capable of 
giving the most benefit, it's the dharma houses. For all these reasons, it’s generally 
advisable to design your life in accordance with whatever the dharma houses represent. 


The Dharma Houses and Purva Punya 


We typically think of the 5 house as the house of purva punya, or past life merit. But all 
three of the dharma houses, 1, 5, 9, generally represent where we’ve acquired positive 
karma from past lives. This is why they’re considered friendly and beneficial to us, and 
their lords are the temporal or functional benefics in the chart. Their dashas will tend to 
be periods of the return of our good karma, and are generally more beneficial than the 
dashas of other house lords. This makes sense based on the principle of Bhavat 


52 


AstrologyKRS 


Bhavam, or house-to-house relationships, because the 9" house is the 5" house from 
the 5 house, and the 15 house is the 5'" house from the 9" house. 


The 5t* House — Acquired Knowledge, Skills, and Talents 

Of the three dharma houses, the 5" house is unique because it’s the 3rd house from the 
3rd house. The 3rd house is the house of hobbies and interests. As the higher octave of 
the 3rd house, the 5" house represents our strong and intense interests, what we’re 
passionate about. As the primary house of purva punya, it also represents where we've 
focused our energies in past lives, and developed as our acquired knowledge, skills, 
and talents. To direct our efforts towards these natural strengths is always a good idea, 
since we're likely to be met with the most success with the least effort, while at the 
same time feeling the most inspired. 


My Jyotish guru, K.N. Rao, emphasizes the 5th house for career and educational 
counseling. See the following quote from chapter three of his book, Yogis, Destiny and 
the Wheel of Time: 


"In a series of horoscopes | have tested career patterns, talents, gifts - normal and 
supernormal, by focusing on the fifth house and the fifth lord from the Lagna 
(ascendant) and the putrakaraka of Jaimini." 


The 5th house corresponds to the 5th sign of Leo, which is the sign of the creative 
faculty and self-expression. The 5‘ house is also well known as the house of children, 
however, when our concept of childbirth expands to include our creative expressions, 
what we produce, our “creative babies," we gain a broader understanding of its 
significance. 


The 5‘ House and Educational Counseling 


As a stepping-stone to career, decisions about education can be crucial for career 
outcomes. Therefore, educational counseling is a valuable service that a Vedic 
astrologer can render. It can save someone a lot of time, money, and unhappiness. If 
someone can be guided toward their strongest interests, skills, and talents represented 
primarily by the 5 house, then they'll have the best chance to succeed, and will be 
ultimately the most fulfilled. 


However, there’s differing opinions amongst Vedic astrologers about which is actually 
the house of education. Generally, north Indian astrologers attribute the 5th house, 
while south Indians give the 4th house. Both are right. The 4‘ house represents 
education that is acquired at home, as well as at a compulsory foundational education 
setting which is typically through high school (pre-college). But as soon as there is 
choice in educational subjects it becomes a 5" house matter, which is what is relevant 
for counseling purposes. 


aa 


AstrologyKRS 


This is well supported in the classic texts. For instance, the sage Parashara emphasizes 
the 5th house for education. Here's a quote: 


"From the 5th house are to be seen amulets (yantras) sacred spells (mantras), learning, 
the splendor of the intellect, knowledge (vidya), sons (children), capacity to manage 
affairs (royalty), and fall from position (8th house from the 10th house)." - Brihat 
Parashara Hora Shastra, verse 6, chapter 13 


This quote suggests that the 5th house is the process of learning, increasing knowledge 
and exercising the intellect. We can see what a person will be interested in studying 
primarily by the 5th house, 5th lord, and Mercury regardless of whether it's formal or 
informal education. The 5" house is primarily seen for undergraduate studies, whereas 
the 9'" house, being the 5 house from the 5'" house, is the house of post-graduate 
studies and higher knowledge. 


Another hint from classic texts that education can be seen from the 5th house is in the 
Jaimini Sutras. In the Jaimini system, the karakamsha lagna and the 5th house from it 
indicate one's professional inclinations and the educational training suitable for that 
profession. Here's a quote from the sage Jaimini: 


"If Venus is alone in the Karakamsha or in the 5th from it, one becomes a poet, an 
eloquent speaker, and a good critic of literature." - Jaimini Sutram 


Synthesizing Many Factors — A Flexible Methodology 

Interpreting the horoscope is always a matter of analysis and synthesis: analyzing many 
factors and synthesizing them into a cohesive logical interpretation. So then it becomes 
a matter of knowing what factors to analyze and for this there are always varying 
opinions amongst astrologers. 


For the purpose of determining what a person would be strongly interested 

in studying and developing into a career, we need to primarily examine the 5" house, 5" 
lord, and karaka of education, Mercury. Mercury will show us what someone is 
interested in studying. Next, K.N. Rao recommends looking at the 5" house and 5* lord 
from the karaka Mercury itself. This needs to also be combined with an understanding 
of one’s basic personality traits and inclinations represented by the 1st house and 1* 
lord. Here’s a quote from K.N. Rao from the forward to Naval Singh’s book, Planets and 
Education: 


‘It is the lagna and lagna lord who hold the key of everything in life, including 


54 


AstrologyKRS 


education.” 


Also, it’s useful to add the examination of the Sun and Moon, karakas of personality, as 
well as noting the dasha running at the time of study. The Sun becomes doubly 
important because it’s the karaka of the 1st house of personality as well as 10 house of 
career. There are many other factors that are worthwhile examining like the other 
important karaka of education as well as of dharma/inspiration, Jupiter. Looking at the 
nakshatra of the 5" lord is also very useful. If we’re using the Jaimini system, then we 
can also focus on the karakamsha lagna and 5" house from the karakamsha, as well as 
the putra karaka (PK: planet with 5 highest degrees). There’s also great value in 
examining the D9 navamsha chart and the D24 chaturvimshamsha charts for education. 
However, in the following example charts we'll limit our analysis to these three areas: 


1. Personality Indicators: 1S‘ house, 1st lord, Sun and Moon 
2. House, house lord, and karaka: 5 house, 5° Lord, Mercury, and 5 house from 
Mercury. 


3. Dasha running at time of choosing field of study. 

The first two areas are static, unchanging, and the dasha running is dynamic, ever 
changing. Just looking at the static unchanging indications in the natal chart is not 
enough, because our interests, values, and priorities all change with changing of the 
dashas. If you focus on these three areas then many important clues will not be missed. 


The strongest planet(s) combined with the dasha running will ultimately decide the 
choice of education and career direction. 


Three Questions: What, When, How 

There are three kinds of questions that typically arise with regards to education: 
1. What to study? 

2. When to study? 


3. How successful will studies be? 


In the following example charts we'll focus mostly on what to study. 
Artistic vs. Technical Planets 

K.N. Rao makes a useful broad distinction between benefic and malefic planets for the 
purpose of educational counseling. He describes the benefic planets: Jupiter, Venus, 


Mercury, and the Moon as predominately artistic planets, and the malefic planets: 
Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu as predominately technical or scientific planets, with the Sun 


a 


AstrologyKRS 


as a mild malefic, representing less technical subjects like political science. This 
provides a basic starting point for deciphering planetary combinations as seen in 
educational/career patterns. 


Example Chart #1: Donald Trump 


Donald Trump 
G/A4/1946 Friday 
9:51:00 

Queens, N¥ 

73°S2' O"W 40°43'0"N 
Asc24° 28'Can 

Sun29° 46'Tau Neutr 
Moo27°34'Sco DebxXd 
Mar 3° 38'Leo G.Frn 
Mer15° 40'Germ Own 
Jup 24° 20'Virg RNeutr 
Ven 2°34'Can G.En'y 
Sat 0°42'Can G.En’y 
Rah2?° 38'Tau DExalt 
Ket 27° 38' Sco DExalt Ke 
Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump, has the 1% lord Moon in the 5" house. 
One of the many indications of the 5 house is speculation, and Trump is the epitome of 
a speculator. Notice how the Moon is aspected by both the 2" lord, Sun, from the 11% 
house, and 5" lord, Mars, from the 2" house. The ascendant lord, Moon, therefore, is 
involved in multiple dhana or wealth producing yogas, between 1‘ lord and 2" lord, and 
1st lord and 5" lord. So, of all the 5° house indications we need to lean toward the 
financial ones, like speculation and investments to understand what this guy is all about. 
At first glance, you may think that Trump is a mystic with the Moon debilitated in Scorpio 
with Ketu. Not with the aspect from two masculine, ambitious planets like the Sun and 
Mars, from materialistic houses the 2" and 11". In this case, Ketu with the Moon 
indicates that he can be sneaky and deceptive in his dealings. The 5" lord Mars in the 
24 houses says a lot about where his passion lies: to make money, lots of it! Mercury 
as the 12 lord, in the 12 house, gives him international dealings and ambitions. 
Looking at 5" house from Mercury, again we’re seeing a strong dhana yoga with the 5 
lord, Venus, combined with 9" lord, Saturn, in the 2"¢ house. 


He started business school in his Venus-Rahu dasha. Venus is the 4" lord with the 8" 
lord, which is a combination for real estate renovation, which is how he eventually made 
millions. The 4" house is the house of real estate, and the 8 house is the house of 
transformation. Rahu, the sub dasha lord, is in the 11 house with the 2" lord, which is 
a combination that’s showing obsessive and excessive ambition for gains. No wonder 
he chose to attend business school. He says that he flirted with the idea of going to film 
school, but ended up choosing business. Rahu with the Sun in the 11 house is a 
combination for being a bit of a showman, which he actualized later in his life in Jan 
2004, during his Rahu-Jupiter dasha when he aired his first episode of his reality TV 
game show, The Apprentice. 


56 


AstrologyKRS 


After graduating from business school in his Venus-Jupiter dasha, he went to work at 
his father’s real estate renovation company in New York and made millions in his Venus 
dasha. Notice how Jupiter is the 9" lord, representing the father, aspecting the Sun also 
representing the father. This forms another powerful dhana yoga in his chart between 
the 9" and 2" lords, and indicating how he benefitted tremendously from his father’s 
influence. 


Example Chart #2: Bill Gates 


Bill Gates Ke YY As 

10/28/1955 Friday Mo Jp Ke 
21:15:00 : > 
Seattle, WA 
122°19'51"W 47°36'23"N 


Asc24° 58'Gem 

Suni1° 45'Libr DebXd 
Mool4° 33'Pis Enemy} 
Mar16° 51"Virg G.En'y 
Mer23° 19'Virg Own 
Jup 4°32'Leo G.Frn 
Ven26° 56'Libr Own Ff 
Sat 28° 20'Libr = Exalt 
Rah24° 53'Sco RDebxd | 
Ket 24° 53'Tau RDebXd | Ra Sa Me 7: 


Similarly to Donald Trump, notice how in the chart of Bill Gates, the multi-billionaire 
founder of Microsoft Corporation, the ascendant lord, is aspected by both the 2" lord 
and 11* lord forming multiple dhana yogas. Likewise, the Sun is also associated with 5" 
and 9'" lords, Venus and Saturn, forming an extremely strong lakshmi yoga. Certainly 
his passion has been, like Trump, to earn vast sums of wealth, since the 1% lord, Sun, 
Moon, and 5% lord are all involved in powerful dhana yogas. Because Mercury is exalted 
in it’s own sign of Virgo in an angular house it forms a bhadra mahapurusha yoga, 
which also repeats from the Moon (Chandra lagna). When Mercury and/or the 5* lord is 
strongly placed then it indicates someone with high intelligence. This is certainly the 
case in Bill Gates’s chart with Mercury exalted, and the 5" lord Venus in its mulatrikona 
sign of Libra, and both placed in angular and trinal houses respectively. 


His ascendant is Gemini, the 3 sign of the natural zodiac, which along with Mercury 
represents communication and computer technology, while his ascendant lord Mercury 
is combined with Mars, a technical planet. This certainly shows his interest in computer 
technology, especially because Mercury is also place in its exalted sign of Virgo. It was 
in his Mercury-Saturn dasha that he began his undergraduate studies at Harvard 
University. This makes sense since Mercury is the karaka of education (along with 
Jupiter), and Saturn is in the 5° house conjunct the 5" lord, Venus. However, as soon 
as his Ketu mahadasha began in 1975 he dropped out of college, to go through the 
preparation stages of forming Microsoft. It was in his Venus dasha following Ketu that 
his lakshmi yoga involving Venus became activated and he soon became one of the 
richest men in the world. 


57 


AstrologyKRS 


Both Trump and Gates have Venus conjunct Saturn, in the dharma houses 1* and 5 
respectively. Both are designers (Venus) of structures (Saturn). Trump designs 
buildings, and Gates designs computer operating systems. 


Example Chart #3: Stephen King 


Stephen King 

Date 9/21/1947 Sunday 
Time 1:30:00 

Place Portland, ME 
Longitude 70°15'21"vV 
Latitude 43°39'41"N 


Asc 6° 44' Ca 
Sun 4° 16' ¥irg Enemy 
23° 7' Sco DebXd 
Mar 1° 3' Ca Debxd 
Mer 21°54' Virg Own 
Jup O° 40'Sco  Neutr 
on 9° 1' Virg = DebXd 
Sat 24°59' Ca G.En'y 
Rah 1° 55' Tau D Exalt 
Ket 1° 55' Sco D Exalt 


Stephen King is one of the most prolific writers of all time, specializing in contemporary 
horror and suspense thrillers. His books have sold over 350 million copies and many 
have become movies as well. 


Similar to the chart of Donald Trump, he has Cancer ascendant with the Moon with Ketu 
in Scorpio. Both Trump and King are highly creative with the lagna lord in the 5‘ house, 
and in both cases Mars is connected with the ascendant lord, Moon. In King’s chart the 
Moon is in exchange with 5‘ lord Mars, in Cancer. This forms a parivartana yoga and 
neecha bhanga raja yoga, giving cancellation to the Moon’s debility. The Moon is not 
only in the 5° house, it combines with the other two dharma house lords, Mars and 
Jupiter. This also repeats from the Moon (Chandra lagna). This is an extremely creative 
combination, because the Moon is with Jupiter a benefic artistic planet, in a watery 
creative sign of Scorpio, and Jupiter also aspects the ascendant from the 5" house, a 
creative house. He produces book after book and has an abundance of creative ideas. 
This is further enhanced by the fact that the Sun is with exalted Mercury, the 3% lord in 
the 3 house, along with the planet of creativity Venus. The 3 house, Mercury and 
Venus all represent writing. If we look at the 5" house from Mercury, we see that the 5th 
house and 5* lord, Saturn, is with the 3 lord, Mars, representing writing. Malefics and 
the 8 house represent horror. In King’s case, the 5" lord Mars is with the 8" lord, and 
this from Mercury, the karaka, the 5" lord Saturn, is with the 8" lord, Mars. This is 
indicates his passion for suspense and horror. 


It was in his Venus mahadasha that he began undergraduate studies in literature, a 
subject represented by Venus. Venus is also conjunct exalted 3 lord, Mercury, further 


58 


AstrologyKRS 


indicating a direction is writing and literature. Venus also has its debility cancelled by 
association with its debilitation lord, Mercury. This is a good example chart of why we 
need to factor in the mahadasha lord as an important influence on our choice of 
academic studies. 


Example Chart #4: Deepak Chopra 


Deepak Chopra 
Date 10/22/1946 Tues Ra \ oo ‘NS Va 
Time 15:51@ a= N12 4 Sage” 
Place New Delhi, INDIA 4 XS ie 
Longitude 77°12'0"E A oe As XS 
Latitude 28°36' 0"N Sa 


Asc 26°34' Aqu 

Sun 5° 18' Libr DebXd 
5° 42' Virg = GFrn 

Mar 25°59' Libr =‘ Friend 


Mer 27° 23' Libr 
Jup 12°37" Libr 
Ven 8° 45' Sco 
Sat 14°59' 


GFrn 
Neutr 
Friend 
Neutr 


Rah 19°30' Tau R Exalt 
Ket 19°30' Sco R Exalt 


Here is the chart of Dr. Deepak Chopra who has been a pioneer in the field of 
alternative medicine as a prolific writer and speaker. Notice how the 1° lord Saturn is 
placed in the 6" house of illness and healing. When we read the chart from the Moon 
(Chandra lagna) Saturn becomes the 6" lord and aspects the ascendant. This shows a 
strong connection with the medical field. In addition, Mercury, which happens to also be 
the 5" lord, and the Sun are conjunct Mars, a technical scientific planet. He began his 
undergraduate studies in Mars-Venus dasha. Mars is with 5" lord, Mercury, and Jupiter, 
both karakas of education, indicating a dasha focusing on education. Venus represents 
biology and Mars and Venus form a parivartana yoga between the 9'" and 10* lords. 
The mahadasha lord, Mars, is also with the Sun, karaka of the body and the medical 
field. To be a medical doctor is also to be in the role of advisor, consultant, and 
educator. Therefore, the 9" house, the house of teaching, and Jupiter, the guru and 
advisor, must also be strongly positioned in the chart of medical doctor. It was in the 
dasha sequence of Mars followed by Rahu, two technical scientific planets, that he 
became trained as a medical doctor. 


As in the chart of Stephen King, Jupiter aspects the ascendant, the 5° house, and the 
5" lord, giving him an abundance of creative ideas. The 5" lord, Mercury in the 9t 
house with Jupiter, the Sun and the 10" lord, gives him the qualities of a teacher and 
educator. It has been since his 16 year Jupiter dasha, which began in 1983, that he has 
become known as a new age guru. This makes perfect sense since Jupiter is placed in 
the 9" house, the house of higher knowledge and wisdom, with his 5" lord. It was in this 
dasha, that teaching and writing became his passion. 


Utilizing the D24 Chart for Birth Time Rectification 


59 


AstrologyKRS 


Deepak Chopra’s chart is a good example of how we can make use of the D24 chart for 
birth time rectification purposes. His given birth time is 15:51. However, if you move his 
birth time back just one minute to 15:50, it changes his D24 lagna from Taurus to Aries. 
This makes much more sense, because he moved to the USA for post-graduate studies 
in Rahu-Jupiter dasha in the summer of 1970. With Aries ascendant, Rahu is aspected 
by 9" and 12" lord Jupiter. The 9" house represents post-graduate studies, and the 12" 
house represents foreign countries. 


Conclusion 


In each of these example charts, the 5" house and 5" lord have been shown to have a 
significant influence on educational choices and career directions. Ultimately, the 5 
house, and collectively the three dharma houses, represents the spark of inspiration, 
which gives our lives meaning and purpose. To focus on these houses, house lords, 
and karakas, along with an intelligent blending of the dashas that a person is in, is safe 
ground for an astrologer when making recommendations about education and career 
patterns. You will likely do him or her a great service. 


"Follow your bliss and the universe will open doors for you where there were only walls.” 
~ Joseph Campbell, author of The Hero’s Journey 


Vaughn Paul Manley, M.A, (Pavitran) is a full time Vedic astrologer who has been 
practicing professionally since 1992. He has a master’s degree in counseling 
psychology and an elementary school teaching credential. He is a certified teacher 
and tutor with the American College of Vedic Astrology (ACVA), and is a contributing 
author for the ACVA Online Course. He has been a presenter at ACVA Conferences, has 
taught in Japan, and also in India at K.N. Rao’s school, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan. His 
articles have been published in The Journal of Astrology, The Mountain Astrologer, 
Express Star Teller, CVA Journal, and Zento Magazine. Many of his articles and 
lessons have been translated into Japanese and Russian. 


He has spent 16 months in India studying with such well-known astrologers as his 
Jyotish guru, K.N. Rao, editor of the Journal of Astrology, and the late R. Santhanam, 
translator of the classic text, Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra. While completing his 
master's degree in Santa Fe, New Mexico he tutored for three years with Vedic scholar 
Dr. David Frawley, former president of ACVA, and author of Astrology of the Seers. He 
lives in Maui, Hawaii. 


60 


AstrologyKRS 


The Queen of Jyotish: Joni Patry 


Joni Patry is an internationally renowned astrologer and the founder and Director of the Galactic Center (formerly 


known as the Dallas Metaphysical Center). The mission statement of the Galactic Center is: 

To find meaning, purpose, direction, healing, and enlightenment through the study of astrology 

To unite likeminded people who feel an affiliation or purpose that they may share ideas knowledge, and wisdom 
To educate the public about the value of astrology 


To bridge the gap between eastern and western astrology 


61 


AstrologyKRS 


Joni Patry is revered as one of the most recognized teachers and astrologers in America. Patry is the highest level 


certified Vedic astrologer. 
Joni’s Career Achievements 


She has been the Vedic Instructor for the Online College of Astrology, a western astrological certification 


program. 
Her course, Introduction to Vedic Astrology, is accredited by all major astrological organizations. 


She has also taught for the American College of Vedic astrology online program and is a faculty member for 


ACVA (American Council of Vedic Astrology). 


She served as the Executive Secretary for CVA (Council of Vedic Astrology) where she published and distributed 
the International CVA Journal. 


She was given the Dr. B.V. Raman Janma Shatamanothsava Award and awarded the title of Jyotisha Choodamani 
by the Trustees of the Raman & Rajeswari Research Foundation in Bangalore, India, in appreciation of her 


contribution towards propagating the systematic awareness of Vedic Astrology. 


Her memberships include the NCGR (National Council for Geocosmic Research), Uranian Society, 
Cosmobiology Research Foundation, ISAR (International Society for Astrological Research), Declination Special 
Interest Group of NCGR, AFAN (Association for Astrological Networking), and serves on the board of numerous 


astrological societies and is the south central Coordinator for ISAR’s Professional Speakers Bureau. 
She organized the ACVA International Symposiums held in Hawaii, 


She was solely responsible for organizing the first national conference of its kind, “Eastern Astrology for Western 


Minds” to teach Vedic Astrology to Western astrologers. 


She is often the keynote speaker for national and international conferences, and has been on national television 


and radio programs as an authority on both Western and Vedic astrology. 

Patry has lectures regularly at national and international conferences such as: 

BAVA (British Association of Vedic Astrology)- London, England 

ISAR (International Society for Astrological Research)- Chicago, IL 

UAC (United Astrology Conference)- Denver, CO, New Orleans, LA 

ACVA (International Symposiums for the American Council of Vedic Astrology)- Sedona, AZ, Kauai, HI 


Eastern Astrology for Western Minds - Dallas, TX 


62 


AstrologyKRS 


Holistic Inner Science Conference — Houston, TX 

Holistic Science Conference- Oak Ridge, TN 

The Blast- Sedona, AZ 

CVA (Council of Vedic Astrology)- Seattle, WA 

36" Annual International Astrology and Oriental Heritage Conference, Kolkata, India 
Bilgi Paylasim Merkezi- Istanbul, Turkey 

Consultation Practice 


Joni’s client base is over 5,000 individuals in seventy-nine countries that includes celebrities, dignitaries, 
politicians, and world leaders. Joni currently charges $225.00 an hour for her consultations and she books up to 


six readings a day. She also conducts readings when traveling for speaking engagements and conferences. 


Speaking Engagements 2013 


Since she began her career as an astrologer, Joni has been a keynote speaker for numerous national and 
international conferences. Frequently she also travels in order to speak to various astrological and metaphysical 
organization and p[provide reading to the local clientele. Since it would be too extensive to list all of her speaking 
engagements over a career that has spanned three decade, below is a brief outline of her whereabouts (outside of 


her regular consultation practice) over the last year: 

Istanbul, Turkey ¢ January 23-30": Bilgi Paylasim Merkezi 
Lecture- Future Predictions for Turkey and the World 

-Gave fifty-six individual readings 


http://www.bilgipaylasim.org/wp/index.php 


Laguna Woods, CA ¢ February 13": Southern California Astrological Network (SCAN) 
Lecture- Understanding the Moksha Houses: The Liberation of the Soul 


http://www.meetup.com/scanastro-com 


San Diego, CA ¢ February 16": San Diego Chapter of the National Council for Geocosmic Research 
Lecture- The Deeper Meaning of the Houses from the Derivative Houses 


http://ncgrsandiego.org 


63 


AstrologyKRS 


Kolkata, India ¢ March 2-5": 36 Annual International Astrology and Oriental Heritage Conference 
Lecture- Rahu: A Sudden Rise to Fortune or Drastic Fall from Grace 


http://www.astrologicaleducation.in/ 


Annapolis, MD « April 13: Annapolis Chapter of the National Council for Geocosmic Research 
Lecture- Rahu: A Sudden Rise to Fortune or Drastic Fall from Grace 


http://www.geocosmic.org/chapters/chapters.php?Chapterldx=13 


Lauderdale/Dania, FL ¢ April 20%: Florida Atlantic Chapter of the National Council for Geocosmic 


Research 
Full-Day Workshop- Understanding the Moksha Houses: The Liberation of the Soul 


http://www.ncersouthflorida.org 


Dallas, TX * May 8": The Dallas Visionaries Meetup Group 
Lecture- World Events and the Future 


http://www.meetup.com/Metaphysics-Visionaries/ 


Phoenix, AZ ¢ July 21-22"4: The Arizona Society of Astrologers 
Lecture- How to Find Money in a Chart 


http://www.azastrologers.org/stella.htm 


Philadelphia, PA « August 15-19; NCGR's 2013 National Astrology Conference: Everything Under the 


Sun Lecture- Liberation of the Soul 


http://ncgr2013.com/ 


http://ncgr2013.com/speakers/joni-patry 


Istanbul, Turkey * September 21*-October 10%: Bilgi Paylasim Merkezi 


64 


AstrologyKRS 


-Intensive Astrological Courses 
-Book Signings 
- Television Appearances 


-Gave eighty individual readings 


http://www. bilgipaylasim.org/wp/index.php 


San Francisco, CA * November 21%: San Francisco Astrological Society 
Lecture- Astrology of Happiness: In-Depth Look at the 4" House 


http://www.sfastrologicalsociety.com/ 
Other Recent Activities 


August 4", 2012, Joni was featured and interviewed as a guest on the nationally syndicated radio/internet show, 


Coast to Coast 


September 4" and September 19", 2013, Joni was interviewed on the YouTube channel KRS. Both videos had 
10,000 views 


She was featured in the October 2013 issue of Faces, a widely circulated Turkish magazine 
Joni’s YouTube channel Astrologi,c; World Predictions 2014 over 40,000 views, Sign Predictions 2014 20,000 


January 10, 2014 she was featured on Good Morning Texas an ABC affiliate 


Joni’s Books 

Eastern Astrology for Western Minds (2004) — A complete manual to learn Vedic astrology. 
Awaken to the Power Within You (2006) — Written to inspire the seeking of our true reality. 
Answers (2007) — The power to know our own connection to the Divine. 

Tommy the Rock Opera (2010) — An interpretation of the Rock Opera Tommy by The Who 


How to Make Money Using Astrology (2011) — Discusses how to use the power of Astrology to unleash one’s 


prosperity and financial potential. Also translated into Turkish. 


65 


AstrologyKRS 


The Transformation of Consciousness: 2012 and Beyond (2011) — A new world consciousness begins... 


World Predictions for 2013 (2012) — An astrological perspective on world conditions and social climate in the 
year 2013. 


Astrology: The Divine Order of the Universe (to be released in 2014) 
Joni’s Lectures 


Below is a sampling of some of Joni’s past lectures as well as some new lectures introduced in 2013. All her 
lectures and speeches are tailored towards her audiences; the wide range of subjects on which she has spoken 
demonstrates this range and her vast appeal. Joni offers keen spiritual insight and expertise on all of the topics in 


which she speaks: 

How to Find Money Using Astrology (New for 2013) 

How to Find Wealth in a Chart: Examining the Charts of Billionaires (New for 2013) 
How to Predict a Sudden Rise in Life (New for 2013) 

Astrology of Happiness: In-Depth Look at the 4" House (New for 2013) 

Surrender the Need to Be in Control: An Exploration of the 8 House (New for 2013) 
The Great Escape: The 12" House and Your Horoscope (New for 2013) 

The 5 House: A Heart of Gold (New for 2013) 

Planetary Cycles (New for 2013) 

Luck or Disaster? Combinations of Jupiter with Rahu 

Transits: The Predicting Tool of Life (New for 2013) 

The Vargas and Divisional Charts: The Mathematics of Vedic Astrology (New for 2013) 
Moksha Houses of Liberation 

Combinations of Power: Rahu and Ketu 

The Derivative House System 

How to Predict Relationships and Marriage 

How to Read the Rashi Chart 

Prediction Using the Vimshottari Dasha System 


Importance of the Navamsha 


66 


AstrologyKRS 


Bhavat Bavam: House to House 

Basis of Prediction 

World Events and Mundane Astrology 

How to Predict World Events with Vedic Astrology 
Varshapal Chart / Solar Return 

Ketu: Special Gift or Curse? 

The 27 Nakshatras 

How to Read the Vedic Chart (for Western Astrologers) 
Special Aspects and Configurations in Prediction 
Separation or Unity 

The Age of Pisces 

Yogas in Vedic Astrology 

The Basics of Vedic Astrology 

How to Find Love in Your Life Using Astrology 


Joni also has a new professionally filmed DVD series that will be available in 2014 through her 


GetAstrologicNow website on the following topics: 


-Beginning Vedic Astrology: Planets, Houses, Signs, Aspects (Gochara) Yogas, Planetary Cycles, Derivative 


House System, Bhavat Bavam, How to See Other People in Your Life 


-Intermediate Vedic Astrology: Nakshatras, Prediction using Transits and Dashas, the Vargas, Divisional Charts, 


How to Predict Major Life Events: Marriage and Pregnancy 


Joni on the Web 


Galactic Center Website & Monthly Newsletter 


Published monthly since 1999, Joni’s newsletter (News from the Stars) contains her Spiritual Insights for each 


month as it relates to the astrological climate across the world and how it pertains to our personal daily life. It also 


67 


AstrologyKRS 


contains her monthly sun sign horoscope predictions and the astrological planetary aspects. Currently her 
newsletter is sent out to 5,000 people each month. Her website contains many articles on a wide array of topics 
including sign predications and her ‘Who’s in the News’ analysis of people and the news. Joni provides 
astrological insight to world events and current affairs. Here she makes bold predictions on world events, many of 
which have proven true with shocking accuracy. Self-paced online classes are also offered. The website also 


contains her booking calendar so consultations can be booked and paid for online. 


www.galacticcenter.org 


Japanese Website 


Due to her large fan base in Japan, Joni was approached to create a Japanese website that provides monthly 
lessons and predictions geared for the Japanese population. On this website, Joni specifically predicted the 
earthquake in Japan a month before it happened in March 2011. This website was also made into an App for 


Japanese mobile devices. 


Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. 


Indian Saptarishis Astrology 


Joni’s column published in the Indian website Saptarishis Astrology, an annual multi-lingual astrological e- 


magazine that is read in 120 countries. 


http://www.saptarishisastrology.com/articles.php 


Sports Predictor 


Joni created an astrological formula to predict the results of sporting events. NFL win predictions can be 
purchased at this website. She accurately predicted the last four Super Bowl winners. 


http://www. galacticcenterreports.com/sports-predictor.asp 


Get AstroLogic Now 


Joni Patry teamed up with Victoria Belue-Schaefer (writer, producer and former news broadcaster) in order to 
interpret Joni’s current global predictions in practical ways. These newsletters include important information on 


investments and the economy. 


68 


AstrologyKRS 


Her new DVD series will be available through this website. 


http://www.getastrologicnow.com 


Best Timing Calendar 


Joni created a year-long calendar that calculates the ideal time and date for success. Whether it is a business deal, 
financial or personal matter, etc., the Best Timing Calendar calculates the most favorable astrological conditions 


for a specific time and decision. 


http://galacticcenterreports.com/best-timing-calendar.asp 


Wikipedia Page 


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joni_Patry 


Facebook Pages 
Joni Patry Vedic Astrologer 
Joni Patry Galactic Center 


Get Astrologic Now 


Twitter 


@JoniPatry 


You Tube Channel 
Joni Patry Vedic Astrologer 


Joni Patry Astrologic 


Contact Joni Patry 


Galactic Center: 4333 Willow Grove Road, Dallas, Texas 75220 — USA 


Phone: (214) 352-2488 


69 


AstrologyKRS 


E-mail: joni@galacticcenter.org 


Website: www.galacticcenter.org 


“TheBlast” Astrology ConferenceSedona, Arizona September 16 - 21, 2008 


COMBINATIONS OF POWER (RAHU AND KETU) 


In Vedic astrology the lunar nodes known as Rahu and Ketu have special powers in a chart. They are 
referred to as our karmic destiny. They will indicate our greatest gifts and our darkest issues. In 
prediction they are where the eclipses fall and indicate the areas of our life that involve the most 
transformation for that year. 


When the lunar nodes are combined with another planet they will take on the quality of that planet. They 
are like mirrors magnifying the energy of that planet. Each combination will produce amazing but very 
different results. 


Rahu and Ketu are described as shadowy planets because they cause the eclipses of the Sun and the 
Moon. These shadows developed the powerful myths and meanings bestowed on the nodes, myths of 
struggles with demons, serpents, and forces of darkness and light. Symbolically they may be seen as our 
own shadows. 


In the Hindu myth a serpent slithered in the line between the Sun and Moon to partake of the nectar of 
immortality being given to the gods, planets, and luminaries. When the thief was discovered, Lord 
Vishnu threw a disk splitting him in half, but he had already swallowed the nectar. This was the creation 
of the serpent’s or dragon’s head (Rahu), and the serpent’s or dragon’s tail (Ketu). Rahu is the head that 
is consumed with the thinking mind. The mind separated from the senses creates illusions, and Rahu is 
the indicator of worldly illusions. Ketu is the quality of knowing without the thinking mind. It is the 
perception of spiritual insights that lead to enlightenment. 


The Moon’s orbit around the Earth intersects the ecliptic at two points. These two points are the nodes 
of the Moon. The north node of the Moon (Rahu) is where the Moon crosses from south to north, called 
the ascending node. This symbolizes the birth into the material manifestation. The south node (Ketu) is 
where the Moon crosses from north to south, called the descending node. This symbolizes our leaving 
the material plane for the spiritual realm. So Rahu takes us into the physical world and Ketu takes us out 
of it. 


All this represents the cycles of birth and death into and out of this world. Rahu and Ketu are the 
indicators of destiny and fate, symbolizing our entrapment in this physical plane. These shadow planets 
control us by our desires. Our desires are our karmas. Our destiny is to release the chains this world has 
cast upon us. It is like the serpent’s bite. The poisonous venom intoxicates us into this world. Rahu takes 


70 


AstrologyKRS 


us under its spell with the illusions of this world, the promise of happiness; “If I could only have more of 
the things that give me pleasure”. But of course, this only leads to insatiable desires. We can never have 
enough. This is the venomous bite of Rahu. Conversely Ketu strips us of the objects of our desires, 
revealing that nothing in this world gives us security and permanence. It is essentially the process of 
enlightenment, when we come to realize that ultimately, it is all an illusion. Nothing of this material 
world lasts, therefore; it is all an illusion or Maya. Ketu is the bringer of enlightenment through the 
realization of this truth. Ketu is the release of this world. 


Rahu is our entrapment and Ketu is our final liberation from the karmas of the soul. Rahu will give 
things but always with a price. Ketu will take away but gives the gift of seeing or enlightenment. When 
the nodes are combined with another planet they will take on the quality of that planet. They are like 
mirrors magnifying the energy of that planet. 


In a birth chart, the extremes caused by Rahu and Ketu will be: 


The houses that Rahu and Ketu occupy. 

The houses of their dispositors. 

The houses ruled by the planet that conjoins Rahu or Ketu. 

Nakshatra dispositor of Rahu or Ketu and the planet in conjunction with them. 
The 27 nakshatras have ruling planets just like the 12 signs. 
*One or more of these houses will be connected to the destiny and fate of the soul. 


The next level that is the main indicator is the nakshatra ruler the planets are in. To get a deeper 
look at the results a planet will produce you must look to the nakshatra dispositor of the planets. 
They are extremely important for the nakshatras are the focus of Vedic astrology. To not use the 
nakshatras would be to deny the bases of Vedic astrology. It is the nakshatras that determine the 
entire predictive system used in Vedic astrology, the Vimshottari dasha system. This system is 
based on the nakshatra your natal Moon is placed in your birth chart. The nakshatra that rules 
the natal Moon begins the entire life sequence of events to occur in a lifetime. 


Effects of Rahu 


Rahu (North Node of Moon): Rahu has the nature of a serpent. It poisons you to the illusions of this 
world. It is our desires that keep us incarnating here. Under Rahu, things happen. Rahu gives: but with a 
price. When our most intense desires are granted under Rahu we discover that too much of a good thing 
ends up causing our most intense suffering. We may for example gain fame and fortune, only to realize 
we have no freedom, or place to go without being mauled by fans. Family and friends disown us out of 
jealousy. The fame and fortune we desired only brought us separation and sorrow. Ultimately the 
disillusionment leads to the enlightenment of Ketu, who detaches and renounces the world for spiritual 
enlightenment. The nodes are the most powerful of all the planets for they cause the eclipses of the 
luminaries, the Sun and Moon. The nodes block out the light or consciousness. Rahu is the material 
world and all the desires it creates. It gives material things which will never bring lasting happiness. 
This is the illusion of Rahu. When these things start to fall away we become obsessed with trying to hold 
on to them. Rahu deals with fear, obsessive and compulsive behavior. It is about addictions, poisons, 
alcohol, and drugs. Any planet with Rahu will be magnified greatly in the chart as Rahu will take on the 
quality of the planet it is next to (in the same sign). This can be good or bad depending on the planet. 


71 


AstrologyKRS 


Rahu with Venus or Jupiter can bring wealth, but Rahu with Saturn can cause suffering to the house they 
are in. 

Keywords: Fame, status, prestige, power, worldly success, fulfillment of worldly desires, outer success 
with inner turmoil, extremes, obsessive behavior, addictions, psychic disturbances, collective trends, 
foreigners and foreign lands, epidemics, disease, poisons that destroy and heal, medicine, drugs and 
alcohol. 


Rahu and Ketu take on the quality of the planets that are associated with them 
(especially conjunct) or aspect them. If they are not associated or aspected by other planets they will 
give the results of the planet that rules the sign they are in (dispositor). 


The sign and nakshatra dispositor is considered the karmic control planet 
Rahu and Ketu cast the trine aspect 5 and 9 signs away from their position. 


Rahu acts like Saturn, and Ketu acts like Mars. They can be described in my opinion like 
the outer planets. Rahu is similar to Pluto or a mixture of Uranus/Saturn/Pluto, and Ketu is like Neptune 
or a mixture of Neptune/Mars/Uranus. 


Rahu and Ketu will give raja yoga whenever they are either in a trikona or kendra house 
and they are conjunct a planet that rules a trikona or kendra. 


How often Rahu and Ketu conjunctions occur with a Planet 
They will always occur in the sign Rahu and Ketu are in during the 18 month period Rahu and 
Ketu are in a sign, once with Rahu and then with Ketu. 


The Sun will conjunct Rahu and Ketu once a year (during an eclipse), 6 months apart. 

The Moon will conjunct Rahu and Ketu once a month 

Mercury and Venus once a year 

Mars once every 2 years 

Jupiter once every 7 years, the conjunction will occur 8 signs away from the previous conjunction 


Saturn once every 11 years, the conjunction will occur 6 signs from the previous conjunction 


*As we go through all the planets in conjunction with Rahu the qualities of each planet will be 
magnified with these conjunctions. 
Rahu conjunct the Sun 


Sun (Surya): The Sun is the life force of our planet. It is the soul and spirit of a chart. However it 
can be an overpowering influence. If it is too close to other planets it can burn up their capability to 
function properly. This condition is called combustion of the Sun. The Sun works best in the tenth house 
where it gives a sense of power and career opportunity. In other houses its forceful presence can be 
excessive and cause problems. 

Key Words: Atma-Self, masculine, day, future, soul, physical body and health, heart, life force, 
courage, pride, ego, vitality, will power, stamina, sense of self, power, fame, glory, inspiration, 


da 


AstrologyKRS 


creativity, leadership, Father, teachers, authority, law and order, bosses, political leaders, kings or 
presidents. 

The Sun is the karaka for the father and leaders or Presidents. 

Famous People with Sun conjunct Rahu: 

Hank Aaron: Sun conjunct Rahu, Saturn, and Venus in Capricorn in the fifth house. 

Cheyenne Brando: Sun conjunct Rahu with Venus in Aquarius in the 10" house. 

Elizabeth Kubler-Ross: Sun conjunct Rahu, Pluto and Moon in Gemini in the 5" house. 

Timothy Leary: Sun conjunct Rahu and Mercury in Libra in the 12" house. 

David Cassidy: Sun conjunct Rahu in Pisces in the 10" house. 

Donald Trump: Sun conjunct Rahu in Taurus in the 11" house. 


9th h. MK 04:47 org 
Sh 27:41 Mrg § 15:40 Ard 
x © 2046 Mrg 
8th h. Donald Trump 
Fri 06-14-1946 02:34 Pun 
09:51:00 Q 16:56 Asl 
Queens Village, Ny ae, 
R USA Asc 24:34 Asl 
7th h. Timezone: 5 DST: 1 
Latitude: 40N43'36 3 ; 
Longitude: 73W44'31 ideas 
V3 Ayanamsha : -23:06:16 Lahiri 
6th h. 


3) 27:34 Jye Ys 12:44 Has 
VU o7-41 Tye AR 2420 Cht 


Donald Trump’s chart: The Sun is the atma or the self. It is the ego and rules our motivations and drive 
in life. The Sun rules leaders, teachers and is the karaka of the father. With the Sun conjunct Rahu his 
ego and sense of self worth is expanded and exaggerated. In the 11 house this gives gains and the 
ultimate gift to fulfill his wishes and desires. Because Rahu indicates expansion in the physical 
materialistic world Donald’s gains are manifest in physical wealth. The Sun in this chart rules the 2™4 
house giving more credence to the gains pertaining to wealth and money. Rahu is exalted in the sign of 
Taurus according to Parashara, therefore, gives it great power to fulfill the indications of the 11 house, 
which is material gains and desires. When a planet is exalted it is in its most exalted state and has more 
power to produce the indications of the house it resides in. 

Rahu and the Sun are in the nakshatra Mrigashira which is ruled by Mars. Mars is in the 2" house of 
money and finances further indicating his gains will be associated with the extremes of money. The 
Nakshatra the planet and Rahu are in are equally as important as the sign. 

He was born on a Lunar Eclipse complicating his life with women and emotional issues due to 
relationships and marriage. This is because on a lunar eclipse the Sun and Moon are in opposition and 
conjunct the lunar nodes. The oppositions activate relationship issues, since they are 7" from one 
another. 


fe 


AstrologyKRS 


When Donald entered into Rahu’s cycle in 1999, his father died, and he ran for President of the United 
States. The Sun is the karaka of the father, and Sun with Rahu are power and leadership. Rahu is 
extremes and power. It will work as a malefic giving what is desired but with a price to be paid. When 
the nodes (either Rahu or Ketu) are conjunct a planet, and the person enters the dasha/bhukti of the 
planet and the node, such as when Donald entered into dasha/bhukti of Rahu/Sun, then an extreme result 
will manifest. It can be problematic for the person the planet is karaka for, as the Sun is the karaka for 
the father. 

Rahu conjunct the Moon 


Moon (Chandra): The Moon is the reflective influence. The Sun sends out its radiance and the 
Moon reflects it back. It is receptive, and therefore represents the reflective mind giving consciousness. 
The Moon is the nurturing, protecting influence that a mother provides. It is the Yin or female influence 
while the Sun is Yang or male. 

Keywords: The mind, reflection, feminine, night, emotions, sensitivity, nurturing, security, past, past- 
lives, patterns of behavior, receptivity, caring for others, heredity, Mother, the public or masses, 
popularity, inner contentment, home, water, habits, subconscious mind. 

The Moon is the karaka for the mother and the mind. 

Famous people with Moon conjunct Rahu: 

Pamela Anderson: Moon and Rahu in Aries in the 12" house. 

Tony Blair: Moon conjunct Rahu in Capricorn in the 10" house. 

Gloria Vanderbilt: Moon conjunct Rahu in Leo in the 5" house. 

Sharon Tate: Moon conjunct Rahu in Leo in the 34 house. 

Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis: Moon conjunct Rahu in Aries in the 7" house. 


K 3) 02:44 Ash 4 16:42 Roh 
18:27 Rev 


Se 24:54 Bha 2 28:53 Mrg 


Jacqueline Ken Onassis 
Sun 07-28-1929 
14:30:00 
Southampton, NY New York 
USA 
Timezone: 5 DST: 1 

Latitude: 40N53'03 US 07:16 Mag 
Longitude: 72W23'24 ; 
Ayanamsha : -22:52:13 Lahiri 3 = 


rey 24:54 Vis 
bp 01:46 Mul 
ASC 25:05 Vis 


Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis’ chart: The Moon is the emotions and the mind. When it is with Rahu it 
indicates an obsessive compulsive mind. It will indicate a life with extremes interfering with peace of 
mind. The Moon and Rahu in the 7 house indicates the area of life this extreme tension will occur. The 
7 house indicates the partner as in marriage or business. I see the 7 house as relationships that are 
contractual. The Moon rules the 10" house indicating a relationship with the partner that is connected to 


74 


AstrologyKRS 


her career or social standing. She was a very public figure that boosted her husband’s career as the First 
Lady. When the 7 and 10% houses are connected the person will work in some capacity with the 
spouse. 

Taking a deeper look, Rahu is in the nakshatra Bharani and it is ruled by Venus. Venus is in Taurus in 
the 8" house. The ruler of the 8" in the 8" house of death, ultimately predicts the death of the husband. 
The Moon is in Ashwini which is ruled by Ketu, and Ketu is in the 1‘t house meaning the results of this 
planet will affect her personally. 

At the time of the assassination of President Kennedy she was in the Dasha of Moon/ Rahu. They are 
both in the 7" house and the nakshatra dispositor of Rahu (Bharani) is Venus in the 8" house of death. 
Rahu Conjunct Mercury 


L] Mercury (Budha): Generally Mercury has to do with all forms of communication: speech, writing, 
and publications. Mercury also rules the intellect, learning, education, wit and a sense of humor. 
Mercury was the messenger of the gods and could travel to the underworld, the symbolic realm of 
hidden secrets where ordinary mortals could not enter. In Greek mythology, Hermes (Mercury) was also 
a trickster and a thief. Mercury's attributes include dexterity and creative ability with the hands. Mercury 
is fast and relates to short quick travels. He rules youthfulness and agelessness and is the perpetual Peter 
Pan, androgynous like a child before puberty. 

Key Words: Communications, speech, writing, commerce, sales, education, ideas, thoughts, school, 
analytical mind, rational mind, cognitive intelligence, sense of humor, youth, trickster, truth, telephones, 
television, computers, short distance travel, adaptability, childhood, aunts and uncles, neighbors, twins. 
Mercury is the karaka for Aunts and Uncles, communications and intellect 

Famous People with Rahu conjunct Mercury 

Errol Flynn: Mercury conjunct Rahu in Taurus in the 2" house. 

Jacques Cousteau: Mercury Conjunct Rahu and Sun in Taurus in the 9" house. 

Yoko Ono: Mercury conjunct Rahu and Sun in Aquarius in the 6" house. 

Al Capone: Mercury conjunct Rahu in Sagittarius in the 11" house. 

Jackie Gleason: Mercury conjunct Rahu in Capricorn in the 2™ house. 

Edgar Cayce: Mercury conjunct Rahu, Saturn and Venus in Aquarius in the 8 house. 


75 


AstrologyKRS 


4s 11:30 Ash 
© 06:12 UBh 
3) 19:32 Bha 
& 42- 
siaiaiainas Edgar Cayce 
B 20:40 PBh Sun 03-18-1877 ASC 16:46 Asl 
Hopkinsville, KY M sor 
5b 18:22 Sat 
Timezone: 5:49:56 DST: 0 
Latitude: 36N51'00 2° js 
Longitude: 87W29'00 salah 
Ayanamsha : -22:08:38 Lahiri 
3 19:03 PSh 
4 09:53 Mul 


Edgar Cayce’s chart: Edgar Cayce is the most prolific psychic of the 20 century. He would give 
information in trance medium sessions. His Mercury Rahu conjunction in the 8" house gives him his 
psychic abilities. Mercury rules the 3" and the 12th house. The 12™ house relates to spirituality and the 
3™ house is communications. With Mercury in the 8" house his spirituality and communication skills 
come from his psychic ability. The nakshatra both Mercury and Rahu are in is Shatabhishak, which is 
ruled by Rahu. This makes Rahu even more powerful in its own nakshatra. It is like a planet in its own 
sign of rulership. 

On March 16" 1886 Cayce had his first vision. Two years later he was pronounced dead from drowning, 
but recovered. He was in Venus/Mercury when he had his first vision. Both planets are in the 8" house 
and the nakshatra dispositor of Venus is Purva Bhadrapada ruled by Saturn. All these planets, Venus, 
Saturn, Mercury and Rahu are in the 8" house. Rahu actually intensifies all these planets giving him his 
amazing psychic abilities. 

But the 8" house is also the house of difficulty and death. He was in Venus/Ketu during the time of his 
near death experience with drowning. Venus is in the 8" house and Ketu is in the 2"! house a maraka 
house, indicating possible death. But most importantly Ketu is in Purva Phalguni ruled by Venus, and 
Venus is again in the 8" house, and it is in Aquarius ruled by Saturn. Venus’ nakshatra is ruled by 
Saturn, ruler of the 8" house in the 8" house, and it is in Purva Bhadrapada ruled by Saturn. All these 
planets in the 8" house are intensified in the 8" house of death and psychic ability. When he died 
January 3" 1945, he had just entered into Saturn’s maha dasha. 

Venus conjunct Rahu 


Venus (Sukra): Venus is the principle of attraction and therefore rules relationships. Relationships 
result in procreation and Venus is creative energy and passion. This not only relates to children but to all 
forms of the creative arts. It rules the senses and the pleasures of the physical body, which also include 
taste, music, touch, luxuries and aesthetic beauty. Venus refers to a person’s wealth and to their comforts 
in life. 


76 


AstrologyKRS 


Keywords: The feminine spirit, beauty, grace, charm, refinement, luxuries, wealth, sensuality, vanity, 
charisma, glamour, good taste, sexual attraction, elegance, comforts, conveyances, arts, music, theater, 
love, affections, pleasure of the senses, sugar, flowers, the wife in a male’s chart. 

Venus is the karaka of relationships, luxuries, and the wife in a man’s chart. 

Famous people with Venus conjunct Rahu 

Burt Reynolds: Venus conjunct Rahu in Sagittarius in the 8" house 

Sigmund Freud: Venus conjunct Rahu in Aries in the 7 house 

Merv Griffin: Venus conjunct Rahu and Mercury and Mars in Cancer in the 2"¢ house 

Catherine Oxenberg: Venus conjunct Rahu in Leo in the 3" house. 

Ted Kennedy: Venus Conjunct Rahu in Pisces in the 4 house. 

Elvis Presley: Venus conjunct Rahu in Capricorn in the 3" house. 


Elvis Presley 
2) 09:04 Sat Tue 01-08-1935 
04:35:00 
02:47 Dha 

2 Tupelo, MS 
Timezone: 6 DST: 0 
88 08:10 Ush Latitude: 34N16'00 

Longitude: 88W43'00 
Ayanamsha : -22:57:14 Lahiri 


un) 21:29 PPh 
4 06:24 USh 


8 29:21 USh 


ASC 19:23 Jye 2. 25:06 Vis 


O 24:16 PSh 


Elvis Presley’s chart: Rahu and Venus together represent extremes in the area of beauty, wealth and 
luxuries. Venus and Rahu in the sign of Capricorn represent leadership and business affairs. Venus and 
Rahu are in the 3" house indicating extreme talent in communication skills. It is the house of siblings. 
Elvis had a twin brother who died at birth. Venus rules the 7" and 12 houses indicating extremes in 
loss in the area of the 3"! house. The 7" house is a difficult house being a maraka house. The 12" house 
indicates loss. The sign dispositor of Venus and Rahu is Saturn placed in the 4° house. He was a very 
private person. The fame and notoriety forced him further inward. He spent a lot of time alone at home. 
He was very close to his mother, but in a very obsessive way since Saturn is the dispositor of 
Venus/Rahu. 

Venus and Saturn are in the nakshatra Uttara Ashadha which is ruled by the Sun. The Sun is in the 2"4 
house representing his powerful voice that made him a legend and gave him the title “the King”. The 2™4 
house is the voice and wealth, in which the Venus/Rahu would predict the extremes produced from these 
houses. 

On the day of his death, 08/16/1977 he was in Saturn/Moon, both in the 4 house which is considered 
the house of the end of life. Saturn is the sign dispositor of Rahu/Venus and the Moon is in Shatabhishak 


77 


AstrologyKRS 


ruled by Rahu. This connects the Venus/Rahu in the 3" house, which the 3" house is also a house of 
death, being the 8" from the 8" house using bhavat bhavam. 
Mars conjunct Rahu 


Mars (Mangala): Mars is the commander in chief. He is the planet of war. Mars rules the blood 
and the circulation of life force in the body. Mars’ nature is fiery and if provoked, he will fight. Mars 
deals with issues of anger but is also the planet of ambition and zest for life. It brings out suppressed 
energies or inner turmoil. Mars is very impulsive, aggressive and impatient; it represents accidents, 
surgery, wars, and volcanic eruptions, with courage and fearlessness as its positive side. 

Keywords: Energy, action, passions, fire, blood, sexual vitality, male influence, muscles, athletics, 
courage, strength, determination, motivation, self-righteousness, selfishness, anger, violence, aggression, 
injury, accidents, enemies, war, can inflict death, conflict, military, police, criminals, science, machines, 
weapons, guns, knives, property and real-estate, brothers. 

Mars is the karaka, for brothers (siblings), intelligence and real estate. 

Famous people with Mars conjunct Rahu 

John Adams: Mars conjunct Rahu in Virgo in the 1* house. 

Clint Eastwood: Mars conjunct Rahu in Aries in the 7" house. 

Harry Houdini: Mars conjunct Rahu in Aries in the 3" house. 

Joan Crawford: Mars conjunct Rahu in Virgo in the 12" house 

Carolyn Myss: Mars conjunct Rahu in Capricorn in the 3" house. 

Jerry Seinfeld: Mars conjunct Rahu in Sagittarius in the 9 house. 

Albert Einstein: Mars conjunct Rahu in Capricorn in the 8" house. 


Y 24:48 Rev 10th h. 
D 12-00 UBh 
4S 15-41 Bha ASC 19:28 Ard 
% 10:58 UBh 
© 01:20 PBh 
Albert Einstein 
Fri 03-14-1879 
4, 05:18 Dha 11:30:00 
Ulm, 
Germany 
Timezone: -0:40:00 DST: 0 
8% 10:33 she Latitude: 48N24'00 K 
eA stains Longitude: 10E00'00 =n 
: Ayanamsha : -22:10:27 Lahiri 


Albert Einstein’s chart: Mars and Rahu occupy the 8" house, intensifying the qualities of the 8" house. 
Mars is exalted in Capricorn giving it even more intensity. The 8" house indicates deep profound 
thoughts and research. Mars is the planet of intelligence, so together with Rahu in the thought provoking 
8 house we have a brilliant mind who uncovers answers to the Universe. 


78 


AstrologyKRS 


Rahu is in Shravana which is ruled by the Moon and the Moon is in the 6" house. This indicates his 
prodding scientific mind, searching for answers. His Mars is in Uttara Ashadha which is ruled by the 
Sun. The Sun in the 10 house gave him fame and recognition particularly due to his scientific 
discoveries. 

Saturn is the sign dispositor of Rahu and Mars. It is in the 10 house of career and social recognition 
which did come about later in his life. In 1922 he won the Nobel Prize, he was in Moon/Mars. The 
Moon is in Scorpio ruled by Mars, and Mars is with Rahu in the 8" house. 

Mars the planet conjunct Rahu takes on this magnification and activates the houses it rules. Mars rules 
the 11" and the 6" houses. These are the houses of healing. But since Mars is in the 8" house he felt he 
had a lot to do with the destruction of many lives. He had enormous guilt dealing with the outcome of 
his discovery and development of nuclear energy. He didn’t create it for destruction, but this was exactly 
how it was used. 

He died of an aortic aneurism in 1955 when he was in Rahu/Mars dasha. Both these intensified planets 
are in the 8 house of death. There is no surprise this is the dasha that took his life. 

Jupiter conjunct Rahu 


Jupiter (Guru): Jupiter is the preceptor and teacher of the gods. He was to teach the path of 
righteousness and spiritual wisdom and represents God’s grace. Jupiter is expansion and growth. 
Whatever Jupiter aspects will grow large. This can indicate overweight conditions or a tall stature. Even 
an expanded organ such as the liver can cause health difficulties. Jupiter deals with the external rituals 
associated with religion. It is also about judgment and laws pertaining to legal advice and it rules 
lawyers. 

Keywords: Spiritual teacher, guide, truth, faith, religion, philosophy, spirituality, grace, law, the great 
benefic, fortune, wealth, expansion, higher education like colleges, optimism, generosity, joy, luck, self- 
indulgence, excess, money, long distance travel, children, the husband in a female’s chart. 

The karakas for Jupiter are children, the spouse in a woman’s chart and wealth 

Famous People with Jupiter conjunct Rahu 

Roger Daltrey: Jupiter conjunct Rahu in Cancer in the 9" house 

Ursula Andress: Jupiter conjunct Rahu in Sagittarius in the 6" house 

Jill Ireland: Jupiter conjunct Rahu in Sagittarius in the 4" house 

Michael Landon: Jupiter conjunct Rahu in Sagittarius in the 1‘' house 

Scott Peterson: Jupiter conjunct Rahu in Sagittarius in the 2"4 house 

Ellen Degeneres: Jupiter conjunct Rahu in Libra in the 12 house 

Madonna: Jupiter conjunct Rahu in Libra in the 3"! house 


79 


AstrologyKRS 


Madonna 2 07:15 Pus 
Sat 08-16-1958 K 
07:05:00 174 Aad 
Bay City, MI © 29.9 ast 
Dosen 
Timezone: 5 DST: 0 eee 
Latitude: 43N36'00 $B 12:22 Mag 
Longitude: 83W54'00 Asc 14:57 PPh 
Ayanamsha : -23:16:54 Lahiri 10415 
18:15 PPh 


$b 00:45 Cht 
bp 25:51 Jye 4 03:06 Cht 


tw Ys 09:01 Swa 


Madonna’s chart: Rahu and Jupiter are in the 3™ house which denotes great creative abilities. The sign 
Libra can indicate creativity, particularity with music, because Venus as ruler of Libra rules the arts, and 
air signs can indicate music. Venus as the sign dispositor of both Jupiter and Rahu is in the 12 house. The 
12 house has connections to film and dancing. The 12 house is connected to film for the association to 
Neptune and Pisces, and the 12 house rules the feet indicating dancing abilities. 


Jupiter rules the 8 and the 5" houses. The 5 is another house of creativity and the 8 house indicates sex 
and magnetism. The ruler of the 8 house is magnified with Rahu producing a very charismatic individual. 


The nakshatra dispositor of Chitra is Mars. Mars is in the 9" house in Aries. This gives her a lucky rise and 
her passion towards her religious beliefs. She was born in an Italian Catholic family and is now studying 
the Kabbalah. The nakshatra Chitra denotes someone who shines and stands out in a crowd. 


Mars becomes a wild card being with Ketu. It is related to the Jupiter/Rahu because Mars/Ketu aspect 
Jupiter /Rahu, and Jupiter and Rahu’s nakshatra dispositor is Mars. Jupiter and Rahu indicate expansion 
and huge extremes. Jupiter and Rahu magnetize the Mars/Ketu. 


From 1987-1994 she was in Mars’ dasha. This was the time she rose to the top as one of the most popular 
performers, taking the world by a storm. She became an icon at this time. During her Mars/Ketu in 1991- 
1992 she produced the provocative taboo works “Truth or Dare”, a video, and published the book “Sex”. 
Madonna capitalized on her shock value knowing the more shocking it was, the more she would be a public 
commodity. Someone with Mars and Ketu in the 9™ house is not afraid to express their beliefs, no matter 
who it offends. 


Saturn conjunct Rahu 


80 


AstrologyKRS 


Saturn (Shani): Saturn is the furthest planet visible to the naked eye. It is therefore the slowest and 
darkest from our perception (outer planets excluded here) and perceived as giving darkness, delaying or 
slowing things down. Saturn rules old age. It is the final boundary, suggesting death and doom. As one 
becomes disillusioned with life, there is misery and frustration. It is the function of Saturn to strip away 
everything of this existence to rid one of all desires and attachments. This eventually leads to higher 
consciousness and final liberation from the karmic chains of the world. Saturn’s primary function is to 
lead the soul back to its source, to God. Characteristics of Saturn are delays, depression, restrictions, 
setbacks, destruction, disease and death. But Saturn also exhibits discipline, stability, and gives long 
lasting results. 

Keywords: Discipline, order, structure, dependability, stability, concentration, endurance, longevity, 
separation, solitude, limitation, bondage, obstruction, delay, poverty, death, disease, oppression, 
pessimism, worry, doubt, fear, phobias, bad luck, old age, retardation, paralysis, depression, stunted 
development, deprivation, bones, skin, degenerative diseases, arthritis, fixed assets, land, property, 
darkness, sorrow, detachment, decay. 

The karakas for Saturn are elderly people, death and wisdom 

Famous People with Saturn conjunct Rahu 

Carnie Wilson: Saturn conjunct Rahu in Pisces in the 6" house 

Ashley Judd: Saturn conjunct Rahu and Venus in Pisces in the 8" house 

Judy Garland: Saturn conjunct Rahu and Jupiter in Virgo in the 4" house 

Timothy McVeigh: Saturn conjunct Rahu and Venus in Pisces in the 10 house 

David Copperfield: Saturn conjunct Rahu in Scorpio in the 3" house 

Lisa Marie Presley: Saturn conjunct Rahu in Pisces in the 9" house 

Priscilla Presley: Saturn conjunct Rahu in Gemini in the 7" house 


4th h. 
29-42 Rev © 1025 Roh B 1557 acd 


§ 18:41 Bha 
3 23:53 Rev K 19:32 Roh 8 16:32 Ard 


Priscilla Presley 


Thu 05-24-1945 Qs. 
22:40:00 15:04 Fas 


Brooklyn Naval Station 7, 


AR 
2nd h. Timezone: 5 DST: 1 
Latitude: 40N42'00 2. ae 
Longitude: 73W58'00 asta 
Vy Ayanamsha : -23:05:22 Lahiri 
1st h. 
VS 1632 Psh 
3) 18:31 Swa rat) 10:40 Has 
ASC 12:58 Mul 


Priscilla Presley’s chart: She has Saturn/Rahu in the 7 house indicating the spouse. The relationship 
with Elvis no doubt changed her life in a huge way. It represents fame and destiny through the spouse. 
Interestingly in her daughter’s chart, Lisa Marie has the same conjunction Saturn and Rahu in her 9% 
house of the father. 


81 


AstrologyKRS 


In Priscilla’s chart Saturn rules the 2™4 and 3" houses. Saturn’s magnification from Rahu brought the 
extremes of money from the 2™ house. The 3" house indicates creative talents, and Priscilla came 
through with her acting abilities, but doors opened due to her famous marriage. 

Mercury is the sign dispositor of Saturn and Rahu. In the 5" house it connects her to her children and 
represents fame still associated with her spouse. 

The nakshatra of Saturn and Rahu is Ardra, which is ruled by Rahu. This intensifies Rahu even more! 
Further intensifying the effect of her extreme blessing or curse she experienced through her marriage to 
one the most famous people of our time. 

In 1977 when Priscilla was in the Saturn/Rahu dasha, Elvis Presley died. Once again the relevance and 
power of this combination predicted this unexpected shocking event. 


$b 27:39 Rev 


M4 14:47 UBh 


=) 28:27 PBh Lisa Marie Presley 


3 Thu 02-01-1968 
24:54 PBh 17:01:00 ASC 14:07 Pus 
§ 06:55 Sat aR Memphis, TN 

7th h. Timezone: 6 DST: 0 


© - Latitude: 35N08'00 AR, 09:48 Mag 
potas Longitude: 90W03'00 


bss 29:04 UPh 
Ayanamsha : -23:24:36 Lahiri 


9 K 05:26 UPh 
14:12 PSh 
0) 27:39 Cht 


Lisa Marie Presley’s chart: She has Saturn and Rahu in Pisces in the 9" house indicating the extremes in 
life came from the father. Saturn rules the 8 and 7 houses. The 8" house has to do with inheritances, 
in which she inherited most of her father’s fortune. The sign dispositor of Rahu and Saturn is Pisces. 
Jupiter as the ruler of Pisces is in the 2" house. This further indicates the wealth gained from the father. 
Saturn is in Uttara Bhadrapada ruled by Saturn. This is like Saturn in its own sign, strengthening the 
power of Saturn. Rahu is in Revati which is ruled by Mercury. Mercury in the 8" house indicates the 
lack of the father in her life. He died before she really got to know him. He was not a part of her life. 

At the time of her father’s death, Lisa was in the Saturn/Ketu dasha. Natal Saturn is in the 9'* house and 
the nakshatra dispositor is Saturn, and Saturn rules the 8" house of death. The Nakshatra dispositor and 
sign dispositor of Ketu are both in the 8" house. Ketu is in Virgo, the sign dispositor is Mercury, and 
Ketu is in the nakshatra Chitra, which is ruled by Mars, so Mars is the nakshatra dispositor. Both 
Mercury and Mars are in the 8 house in Saturn’s sign. A major focus of these two planets’ Dashas 
(Saturn/Ketu) are 8 house matters dealing with 9 house matters, therefore death of the father. 

Effects of Ketu 


Ketu (South Node of Moon): Ketu’s function is to cause inner turmoil so that the soul will seek 


the true essence of the individual. Whereas, Rahu is the material world, Ketu is the spiritual world. It is 
the headless serpent, implying the perception and wisdom that is a gut level knowing and that can give 


82 


AstrologyKRS 


psychic or clairvoyant abilities. But Ketu can give a feeling of helplessness, self-doubt and lack of 
confidence. Through humiliating experiences one becomes humble. Ketu is a wanderer without roots. It 
is a fiery force that can cause accident and injury. Above all, it is the karaka of loss that directs our 
attention back to the eternal reality, the self-realization of our essence with God. Rahu works on the 
outer material world and Ketu works on the inner spiritual world. Ketu with a planet will have a 
spiritualizing effect on it, directing the planetary energy to look within its essence. If Ketu is with Mars, 
the nature will actively seek the spiritual side of life, Martian qualities will be withdrawn, anger 
suppressed and channeled inwardly. Ketu with the Moon can give psychic abilities. Like Rahu, Ketu can 
cause mental instabilities, mass hysteria, diseases and plagues, and represent poisons like drugs and 
alcohol. However both Rahu and Ketu can also be drugs or poisons that heal. 

Keywords: Loss, negation, lack of confidence, self doubt, fantasies, confusion, indecision, illusions, 
drug addiction and alcoholism, psychic influences, fire, injury, death, spiritual insight, liberation, 
perception, wisdom. 

There is an ambition for power where Ketu is positioned by house. The ambition for power comes from 
a strong empty feeling. The house it is in will feel like an empty void therefore, there is a need to 
constantly fill this void creating an obsession to refill the emptiness. This is why there can be gains and 


abundance for the house that Ketu is in. 


Ketu has been said to negate the planet it is conjunct or aspects. A planet conjunct Ketu becomes 
magnified in an unusual way, the outcome depends on the houses the planet with Ketu rules. That is if 
the planet with Ketu is a friend or enemy to the chart. This depends on the Ascendant. 


Ketu is the suction point for all incoming karma from past incarnations. This karma is processed then set 
forth through our life with experiences indicated by Rahu. Rahu is the future and new karmas developed 
during this lifetime. The controlling planets are the sign and nakshatra dispositors of Rahu and Ketu. 
Planets conjunct these nodes become the wild card to express this experience even more. So Ketu is the 
past karmas of the soul in which are put forth into action in this lifetime through Rahu. Ketu is the 
talents and faculties developed through past lives. Ketu deals with the inheritance of these natural 
abilities but the real test is to balance these abilities and not let them control us. We must reach out and 
develop the Rahu qualities instead of letting the karma repeat itself of the previous lifetimes. We must 
learn to use this power for the good of mankind instead of selfish self grandeur. Ketu is our past while 
Rahu is our future and where we must develop our skills in this lifetime. 


If Ketu is with a benefic planet the qualities of that house are empowered. If they are in 
the sign the planet rules, extremes of wealth are possible, especially in the maha dasha of Ketu. 


For example, if Ketu is in the second house with Jupiter it gives wealth. But, it gives extremes of wealth 
if Ketu and Jupiter are in Sagittarius or Pisces. 

This becomes activated when Ketu’s maha dasha begins. At the end of the seven-year Ketu cycle all the 
gains during this cycle can be lost. 

*Planets conjunct Ketu will be exaggerated in an unusual way. The exaggeration is due to a sense of 
lack that is overcompensated. 

Sun conjunct Ketu 

Famous People with Sun conjunct Ketu 


83 


AstrologyKRS 


Nicolas Cage: Sun conjunct Ketu in Sagittarius in the 15‘ house 
Amelia Earhart: Sun conjunct Ketu in Cancer in the 4" house 
Chandra Levy: Sun conjunct Ketu in Aries in the 10 house 
Mike Love: Sun conjunct Ketu in Pisces in the 10" house 
Alice Bailey: Sun conjunct Ketu in Gemini in the 12 house 
Roman Polanski: Sun conjunct Ketu in Leo in the 12 house 


7th h. 
MW 0423 Ash 3) 29:31 Pun 
# 
6th h. Roman Polanski 
R tate Fri 08-18-1933 Q 00:55 Pun 
a a = = 
oe § 13:26 Pus 
A Paris, 
France 
Sth h. Timezone: -1 DST: 0 © 02:02 Mag 
bp is Latitude: 48N52'00 Wocsor 
Wx 19:10 Shr Longitude: 02E20'00 05:39 Mag 


VW Ayanamsha : -22:55:58 Lahiri us 16:25 PPh 
4th h. 4. 02:20 UPh 


2 03:18 UPh 


Zz ASC 22:26 Has 


Roman Polanski’s chart: He was an iconic movie producer. Twice in his life he was exiled from the 
countries he lived in. In 1939 his family had to flee Poland due to the German invasion of World War II. 
Then in 1977 he was exiled from the United States due to his indiscretion with minors in his lover 
affairs. 

An event that caused great loss and pain was in August 1969, when his wife Sharon Tate was brutally 
murdered in the Charles Manson murders. These are all effects of the karmas of the 12" house. 

He has Sun conjunct Ketu in Leo in the 12™ house. The intensity of this combination is stressed further 
by the sign and nakshatra rulers. Sun and Ketu are in Leo which is the ruler of the 12" in the 12" house. 
Both Sun and Ketu are in Magha ruled by Ketu. This intensifies Ketu again, the ruler of the 12" in the 
12", Ketu is the karaka of loss. The 12" house is the house of foreign lands and Polanski was exiled two 
times in his life from the counties he lived in. This configuration brought about intense losses in his life. 
The Sun indicates our ego and self esteem and with Ketu will mean the loss of these. The experiences in 
his life are humiliating and represent a deep sense of loss. 

In 1977 when Polanski was exiled from the United States because of his scandalous affairs he was in 
Ketu/Rahu dasha. Ketu is powerfully connected to loss. Additionally its placement in the 12" house 
indicates problems with foreign countries. 

Moon Conjunct Ketu 

Famous people with Moon conjunct Ketu 

Van Cliburn: Moon conjunct Ketu in Cancer in the 11" house. 

Julia Child: Moon conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 5" house 


84 


AstrologyKRS 


Emeril Lagasse: Moon conjunct Ketu in Pisces in the 6" house. 
John Paul Getty: Moon conjunct Ketu in Libra in the 11" house 
Barbra Mandrell: Moon conjunct Ketu in Libra in the 11 house 
Donald Trump: Moon conjunct Ketu in the 5 house 

Bobby Kennedy: Moon conjunct Ketu in Capricorn in the 10 house 


ASC 13:03 Ash 


Bobby Kennedy 
iK m Fri 11-20-1925 
28:47 PBh 15:11:00 


Brookline, MA 


10th h. Timezone: 5 DST: 0 
3) 05:37 USh Latitude: 42N19'00 us i 
Longitude: 71W07'00 ree 


0) 04:25 USh 
~ Ayanamsha : -22:49:03 Lahiri 


7th h. 
4.2720 Ush Qos:1 Am CB 1201 swa 


4 22:14 PSh . 27:00 Jye b 25:29 Vis 


Bobby Kennedy’s chart: He has Moon/Ketu in the 10" house of career, fame and recognition. The Moon 
in the 10" house can represent fame, particularly with a node of the Moon. The Moon is the karaka of 
the masses, the public and the mother. Since the Moon rules the 4" house of the mother it indicates great 
loss for the mother. In which Rose Kennedy did loose almost all her children tragically while she was 
still living. The sign dispositor of Moon and Rahu is Saturn which is located in the 7" house of marriage 
and partnerships. Saturn rules both the 10" and 11 houses connecting Booby to his older brothers in 
business partnerships. The 11" house represents older siblings. The nakshatra of both Moon and Ketu is 
Uttara Ashadha which is ruled by the Sun. The Sun is powerfully placed in the 8 house. Therefore, his 
connections with his family specifically his brothers lead him to great loss through Ketu, and eventually 
death through the nakshatra dispositor the Sun in the 8 house. He never got to fulfill his political 
desires for he had a greater destiny to fulfill for the world. 

Donald Trump (chart displayed in Sun/Rahu) has Moon/Ketu in Scorpio the 5 house. You would think 
as the Moon is the ruler of the chart by owning the 1*t house, he would be weakened considerably by 
being debilitated in Scorpio and conjunct Ketu. But the Moon with Ketu gives intuitive powers and in 
the 5 house gives knowingness as to when to make investments. It does form Raja yoga, for the Moon 
rules an angle (Kendra) and the Moon and Ketu are in a trikonal. Although it was during his Moon/Ketu 
dasha in 1990 that he had the biggest losses financially. In order to stay afloat he had to juggle all his 
properties. The sign dispositor of Moon/Ketu is Mars, and Mars is in the 2™ house of money, but the 
Nakshatra dispositor produced the result being Mercury (Jyestha is ruled by Mercury), for Mercury is in 
the 12" house of losses in its own sign. But he was still able to succeed through this difficult time. 
Mercury conjunct Ketu 

Famous people with Mercury conjunct Ketu 


85 


AstrologyKRS 


Patrick Swayze: Mercury conjunct Ketu with Moon and Pluto in Cancer in the 11" house 
Alice Bailey: Mercury conjunct Ketu with Sun in Gemini in the 12" house 

Pope John Paul II Mercury conjunct Ketu and Venus in Aries in the 9" house 

Phil Hartman: Mercury conjunct Ketu and Mars in Libra in the 10" house 

Cameron Diaz: Mercury conjunct Ketu in Cancer in the 2™ house 

Jon Bon Jovi: Mercury conjunct Ketu, Saturn, Mars, and Moon in Capricorn in the 5" house 
Howard Dean: Mercury conjunct Ketu in Libra in the 5 house 

Bobby Fisher: Mercury conjunct Ketu in Aquarius in the 8" house 


Oth h. r 
07-54 Kri 
2 22:07 Rev 3) 09:01 Ash AR 22:07 Pun 
b 13:26 Roh 
# 
O 25:18 PBh 8th h. Bobby Fischer 
rs) Tue 03-09-1943 ASC 07:31 Pus 
04:47 Dha 14:39:00 Dares 

V 01:43 Dha ~R Chicago, IL ‘ 

7th h. Timezone: 6 DST: 1 


Latitude: 41N52'00 
Longitude: 87W39'00 
V3 Ayanamsha : -23:03:39 Lahiri 


8 01:43 Mag 


3 07:54 USh 


gs 07:58 UPh 


# wy Q TR 

Bobby Fischer’s chart: He became the World Chess champion on 09/02/1972. He was exiled from the 
United States for his antagonistic behavior. After 20 years of exile he won again $3.35 million in a 
rematch with Boris Spassky from Russia on 09/02/1992. He has the combination of Mercury with Ketu 
in the 8" house. The 8" house is the most profound house for thoughts and research. There are other 
aspects that denote his keen intelligence, but I believe it is the Mercury/Ketu in the 8" house that give 
him his probing mind. Mercury with Ketu indicates a deep thinking mind, and in the 8" house gives the 
quality of concentration coupled with research, as Einstein had Mars/Rahu in the 8" house. Mercury in 
an air sign gives more of a mental quality. Mercury as the planet conjunct Ketu, rules the 12" and 3"4 
houses. The 3" house like the 3" sign indicates mental ability and communication skills, for it relates to 
Mercury, because the 3" sign is Gemini ruled by Mercury. The sign dispositor is Saturn. Saturn in the 
11" house magnifies the results of Mercury/Ketu. The 11" house magnifies and multiplies the results of 
planets. The nakshatra dispositor of Mercury is Mars (Dhanishta). Mars is in the 7 house exalted. Mars 
is the key planet for intelligence, as the dispositor exalted in an angle will give the extreme of Mars in 
all its glory. It is called Ruchaka Yoga. It probably had a lot to do with his antagonistic behavior. 

In 1972 when he won the Championship he was in Moon/Mars. Mars is his powerhouse and the Moon is 
in Mars’ sign but the nakshatra that rules the Moon is Ketu (Ashwini), therefore the 8 house and 
Mercury are activated giving depth to the thinking process. 

Venus conjunct Ketu 

Famous people with Venus conjunct Ketu 


86 


AstrologyKRS 


Marcia Clark: Venus conjunct Ketu and Mars in Cancer in the 10" house 

William Randolph Price: Venus conjunct Ketu in Taurus in the 1‘t house 

Christian Dior: Venus conjunct Ketu in Aquarius in the 5 house 

Sammy Davis Jr. Venus conjunct Ketu with Jupiter in Capricorn in the 11" house 
Charles de Gaulle: Venus conjunct Ketu and Mercury/Sun in Scorpio in the 3" house 
Conner Clapton: Venus conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 2" house 

Roger Daltrey: Venus conjunct Ketu in Capricorn in the 3" house 


MW 11:53 Roh 
GO 24:16 Mrg 


| 8 26:41 Mrg 


Roger Daltrey Sb 13:11 Pus 
O 17:15 Sat Wed 03-01-1944 Q 
02:00:00 13:49 Pus 
9 03:26 Dha gh 
London, AR 26:41 Asl 
England 
Timezone: -1 DST: 0 
, 17:10 Shr Latitude: 51N30'00 
S ie. Longitude: 00W10'00 


Ayanamsha : -23:04:24 Lahiri 


ASC 05:39 Anu US 10-24 Has 


Roger Daltrey’s chart: As the lead singer of the Rock and Roll band “The Who”, he has Venus conjunct 
Ketu in Capricorn in the 3" house of creativity and communication skills. “The Who” is considered by 
some to be the best rock and roll band ever! Roger’s success is due to many aspects of this powerful 
chart, but particularly his exalted Jupiter conjunct Rahu in the 9" house. The rise of “The Who” began in 
the 60s when he was in Rahu’s cycle. In 1964 the group changed their name from “The Detours” to 
“The Who”, and added Keith Moon as the drummer. He began his Rahu/Jupiter dasha. This catapulted 
them to fame and fortune. 

His Venus and Ketu in the 34 house is what gave him his creative exuberant style with entertaining on 
stage. In 1975 he began his acting career in the movie “Tommy”. He was in Rahu/Venus. The 3" house 
has indications of film and showman ship. 

Venus rules the 7" and 12 houses. The sign dispositor Saturn is in the 7 house, also the nakshatra 
dispositor (Shravana) is the Moon. All these indications point to the 7“ house. This confirms it was the 
group effort that made the “The Who” the success that it was. He has Saturn, Mars, and the Moon (with 
Uranus) in the 7 house. I can see each of these planets as representing each of the other three members 
of the group. I see the Moon as Keith Moon, because he was the most fluctuating, and it is close to 
planet Uranus indicating instability emotionally. He died at age 32 of a drug over dose in 1978. Besides, 
his last name is Moon! John Entwistle is represented by Mars, and Saturn represents Pete Townsend. 


Whenever I see 3 or more planets in the 7 house I know the individual is a success through the support 
of others, but also they are the ones who control and run the group. They get many people to help and do 


87 


AstrologyKRS 


work for them. The combination of Saturn, Mars and Moon/Uranus describes the volatile relationship 
“The Who” had in their group. 

Mars conjunct Ketu 

Famous people with Mars conjunct Ketu 

David Cassidy: Mars conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 4" house 

Karen Carpenter: Mars conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 4" house 

Madonna: Mars conjunct Ketu in Aries in the 9" house 

Ted Bundy: Mars conjunct Ketu and the Moon, Sun and Mercury in Scorpio in the 4" house 
Kurt Cobain: Mars conjunct Ketu in Libra in the 3" house 

George Gershwin: Mars conjunct Ketu in Gemini in the 8 house 

Brad Pitt: Mars conjunct Ketu and Mercury, Moon, and Sun in Sagittarius in the 2"! house 
Mark Spitz: Mars conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 2" house 


8th h. 
8 15:24 UBh K 08:05 Ard 
H 
7th h. Mark Spitz 
Fri 02-10-1950 Q : 
17:45:00 ae 
A Modesto, CA 
©2836 Dia 6th h. Timezone: 8 DST: 0 
2. 22:59 Shr Latitude: 37N38'21 ASC 00:59 Mag 
Op. 11:51 Shr Longitude: 120W59'45 2442 
oe V3 Ayanamsha : -23:09:35 Lahiri 2k ne 


V 15:24 Has 


3) 15:30 Anu 3 17:52 Has 


4 tw 4 94.09 cht Tr 


Mark Spitz’s Chart: Mark won 7 gold medals at the 1972 Olympics. He has Mars and Ketu in Virgo in 
the 2™ house with Ketu. The sign Virgo denotes discipline and focus and in the 2™4 house refers to his 
early childhood. His parents both made Mark their focus, training him in swimming since a very young 
child. He began breaking records as soon as he hit the water. His parents were so involved in his 
swimming career they moved three times to be close to better coaches. Mars becomes a driving force 
close to Ketu. Ketu can have the effects of Mars so together they become more intense. The 2™4 house 
indicates speech and eating which were extreme in both cases. He was noted for his particular eating 
habits, and he was not well liked for his arrogant comments. His team mates often made fun of him and 
called him a hypochondriac. Ultimately he made his fortune through his endorsements which is due to 
his success as an Olympic star. The 2"¢ house rules our ability to make our own money. Mars rules the 
4h and 9" house indicating both the mother and father, and both parents made him their focus sacrificing 
everything for his success. The sign dispositor of Mars is Mercury which is placed in the 6" hose. The 
6" house is the house of competition and improvement. This is a house involved with athletes. Also, 
whenever there is a connection between the 2™ and 6" house one becomes vested in what they eat or 


88 


AstrologyKRS 


health matters. The nakshatra dispositor of Hasta is the Moon. The Moon in the 4" hose indicates the 
focus his mother had in his career. 

He was in Mars/Ketu, April 1972-September 1972. So it was the Mars/Ketu dasha that prepared and 
brought him the triumph of one of the most successful Olympic wins in history, aside from the new 
record breaker Michael Phelps of the 2008 Olympics. 

Jupiter Conjunct Ketu 

Famous people with Jupiter conjunct Ketu 

Jennifer Aniston: Jupiter conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 12" house 

Lucille Ball: Jupiter conjunct Ketu in Libra in the 11" house 

Hillary R. Clinton: Jupiter conjunct Ketu in Scorpio in the 6" house 

Steffi Graf: Jupiter conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 4" house 

Henry David Thoreau: Jupiter conjunct Ketu in Scorpio in the 11" house 

Vincent Van Gogh: Jupiter conjunct Ketu in Sagittarius in the 7 house 

Jerry Seinfeld: Jupiter conjunct Ketu in Gemini in the 3" house 


12th h. § 04:40 Ash 4. 01:44 Mrg 


ASC 1427 Bha * 07:23 Kri 0) 24:13 Pun 


x O 15:19 Bha MK 26:14 Pun 
11th h. 


Jerry Seinfeld 


ai Thu 04-29-1954 Q + 
26:51 PBh 06:00:00 29:19 Asl 


Brooklyn, NY 


10th h. Timezone: 5 DST: 1 
Latitude: 40N38'00 


Longitude: 73W56'00 
Ayanamsha : -23:13:24 Lahiri 


8 24:13 PSh ys 01:05 Cht 
fe! 12:03 Mul bp 12:37 Swa 


Jerry Seinfeld’s chart: He is the highest paid TV comedians of our time. In terms of what constitutes 
what is funny in a chart I usually refer to the sign Gemini. To be funny you have to sharp and quick 
witted. You have to be smart to be funny, because your mind has to think quickly and be a head of 
everyone in a conversation. Mercury is the planet that rules the trickster in Greek mythology and rules 
the mental disposition. In Gemini the mind is quick and adaptable. The sign Virgo which is also ruled by 
Mercury produces a more dry humor. Great comedians have to have Mercury strong. Seinfeld has 
Jupiter in the sign Gemini in the 3" house which is associated with the sign Gemini since Gemini is the 
34 sign. Jupiter is accentuated by Ketu in the 3" house. The 34 house is about communications and the 
arts and Jerry has a powerful skill to come across dramatically in his stage act. 

Jupiter is magnified by Ketu and rules the 9" and the 12" houses. The 9" house gives him the popularity 
and blessings to be successful with his act. As Mars/Rahu aspect his Jupiter/Ketu configuration it 
becomes all the more magnified. 


89 


AstrologyKRS 


Mercury is the sign dispositor and resides in the 1‘ house of the self. This gives him a youthful 
appearance and flexible style. Mercury is in Aries with the exalted Sun giving him drive, ambition and 
success. The Sun rules the 5" house of drama and creativity. You will find talented actors, artists, 
musicians and writers have accentuated 3" and 5 houses. 

The Nakshatra dispositor of Jupiter is Mars, which rules Mrigashira. Mars is in the 9" house with Rahu 
aspecting his Jupiter/Ketu configuration, so it gives enormous power. The 3/9 house axis is great for 
communications on a public level. The 3" house also rules media and television. Ketu is in Punarvasu 
which is ruled by Jupiter, so it magnifies his Jupiter even more. This is a magnificently magnified 
Jupiter. This is the powerhouse that gifted him with his humor, communication skills and drama. 

He had his rise as a stand-up comedian during his Mercury dasha. The top-rated TV series Seinfeld 
ran from 1989-1998. As soon as he hit his Ketu dasha the show ended. He was ready to retire while at 
the top. He stated he didn’t need any more money, and wanted his freedom. I am sure he traveled and 
had fun during this Ketu dasha. 


Coincidentally, he has a perfect Lakshmi yoga to produce wealth. Venus in its own sign (placed in the 
2™4 house), the ruler of the 9" house is aspected by the ruler of the 1‘, and the ruler of the 1‘ is strong. 


Saturn conjunct Ketu 
Famous people with Saturn conjunct Ketu 


Ralph Waldo Emerson: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Leo in the 12" house 
Athena Roussel: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Scorpio in the 2" house 
Christina Onassis: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Virgo in the 5 house 
Burt Bacharach: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Scorpio in the 11" house 
Doug Flutie: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Capricorn in the 6" house 
Jennifer Gates: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Pisces in the 7 house 

Tina Turner: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Aries in the 10" house 

Paul Gauguin: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Pisces in the 8" house 

Tyra Banks: Saturn conjunct Ketu in Gemini in the 1‘t house 


90 


AstrologyKRS 


V 05:11 Mrg 
3) 13:49 UBh 3 02:20 Ash Bp 09:12 Ard 
ASC 24:38 Pun 


Tyra Banks 
Tue 12-04-1973 
19:13:00 
Inglewood, CA 


Timezone: 8 DST: 0 
4. 15:31 Shr Latitude: 33N57'00 
Longitude: 118W21'00 


04:22 USh 2 
? Ayanamsha : -23:29:51 Lahiri 


5% 05:11 Mul i 02:47 Cht Q 12:58 Has 


ra O 19:20 Jye 


Tyra Bank’’s chart: Tyra quickly rose to fame as one of the top models of the 1990s. Currently she has 
her own talk show, and is said to be the new Oprah Winfrey for the younger generation. 

Her Saturn/Ketu is in Gemini in the 1‘ house. The first house represents the persona of the individual 
and I believe this is what gives her, a unique beauty. Ketu in the 1% will make someone appear 
mysterious with an unusual appearance. Her Saturn as ruler of the 8 and 9™ houses makes her magnetic 
and spiritual. The ruler of the 9 house in the 1‘ makes one spiritual and the rulership of the 8 will 
indicate her search for meaning. As Saturn rules the 9" house it will give luck and fortune. Ketu gives it 
an unusual interesting quality. 

The sign dispositor of Saturn/Ketu is Mercury. Mercury as the dispositor gives her gifts in 
communications and learning. Saturn in Mercury’s sign gives focus and an ability to concentrate and 
learn. Mercury is in the 6" house indicating her desire to help others and promote healing to the planet. 
Her talk show will bring awareness to the world. 

The nakshatra dispositors of Saturn and Ketu are different. Ketu is in Mrigashira and Saturn is in Ardra. 
Ketu’s nakshatra dispositor is Mars. Mars is powerfully placed in the 11" house in its own sign of Aries. 
This indicates great gains and connections to very powerful people. As a model she worked with the 
most powerful people in her industry, working with designers Ralph Lauren, Oscar de la Renta, and 
Channel. Now in the media business she works with Oprah Winfrey and Ellen DeGeneres. She is a 
power to be reckoned with for future generations. Rahu is the nakshatra dispositor of Saturn. Saturn is 
aspected by its dispositor. This is a powerful Saturn that will give a feel of a magnetized Rahu. It is in 
the 7 house which can cause difficulty in marriage. So far she has not gotten married and is not 
interested. Trya’s Saturn/Ketu in the first house makes her unique and unusual. She could not have 
attained her success without it. 

Interestingly, she was in the Ketu dasha from 1994-2001 when she had her rise to fame as super model. 
Ketu gave her rise and success, particularly because it magnified her powerful Saturn. 


Rahu and Ketu as explored in these examples are our karmic destiny. Through understanding them 
we will discover our own destiny and ultimately the karmas of our world. 


91 


AstrologyKRS 


Joni Patry 


Galactic Center 

4601 West Lovers Lane 
Dallas, Texas 

75209 

(214) 352-2488 
www.galacticcenter.org 


joni@galacticcenter.org 


92 


AstrologyKRS 


Sada Siva: The magic of Harmoic charts 


Integration of Rasi and Harmonic Charts 


The use of harmonic charts in Vedic astrology is one of the most important tools a jyotisha 
employs in order to make accurate predictions about when Karma’s ripen, and to also get insight 
into the general nature and behavior of an individual. However, given the complexity of Vedic 
astrology it is easy to get overwhelmed when trying to integrate indications and apparent 
contradictions that arise when trying to synthesize the Rashi (natal) chart with the harmonic 
charts. 


Several questions arise from this confusion. The most common is: 


“When the Rasi chart says one thing and the harmonic chart says another, which do you pay 
more attention to”? 


There are a few fundamental mistakes supporting this question. First of all, the harmonic charts 
are extrapolated from the Rasi chart, and they are never indicating a contradictory result, even 
when one chart is stronger than another, etc. I explain this in greater detail below. 


Also, in general, there is an inability to read either the Rasi or Harmonic charts correctly. 
Students make mistakes, expecting conditions such as exaltation / debilitation (Planetary dignity) 
or other inconsequential factors to determine results. In fact, results are produced by Yogas and 
tulerships (of Houses, Nakshatras and Karakas) to produce effects, timed by the dasas. 


93 


AstrologyKRS 


An Analogy To Clarify Rasi and Harmonic Charts 


There’s a fundamental difference between the Rasi chart and the harmonic charts and they work 
together very in a very specific way. It is useful to look at the Rasi chart as being like a house, 
and the harmonic charts as being separate rooms in the house. Everything is going to take place 
within the house, and based on the priorities of the person who occupies the house. 


Just like in your house, there may be days or weeks where you never enter certain rooms, like a 
basement, or a guest room that is unoccupied. In fact, maybe you rarely enter the kitchen! 
Similarly, the Rasi chart shows the preferences or the ‘ratio of effects’ of an individual and the 
importance they place on different areas of life, shown by the different harmonic charts. 


There are many iterations of this principle. There may be a very beautiful room in the house, that 
is never entered. This can be seen astrologically as a strong and fruitful harmonic chart, that 
never realizes it’s potential. Or, there may be a room in shambles, (weak harmonic chart) that a 
person is constantly trying to clean up and improve (it is important in the Rasi). 


This ratio between the Rasi and harmonic chart then gets activated in the dasa cycles. You will 
see the overall themes in life and their importance to the native being shown in the Rasi chart, 
then the specifics of those events and areas of life being shown in the harmonic charts — as we 
will see. 


There are a few important rules to consider when using harmonic charts in conjunction with the 
Rasi chart. They are: 

The rasi chart shows the ratio of effect through all areas of life. The harmonic charts fill in the 
specifics. 

The same rules of Raja yoga, ripening of karma’s, 3 karakas, effects in dasas, hold true in 
harmonic charts. These factors are harmonized with the ratio of the facts mentioned above. 
Non-astronomical factors, such as Nakshatra’s, retrograde, combustion are not applicable in the 
harmonic charts as they are not astronomical, they are derived from the Rasi chart. 


Let’s go deeper into each of these concepts 


Ratio of effects from Rasi Chart 

The Rashi chart determines the ratio of effects between different areas of life. This ratio of 
importance is carried over into harmonic charts. For example, if the Rashi chart shows a strong 
emphasis on career, expect the Dasamsa chart to be more important in the person’s life overall, 
and factor more prominently in their sense of identity and well-being. This does not mean you 
omit the other harmonic charts, just that you must see them in light of this ratio. 


For example: 
A person may have a Rashi chart that emphasizes career focus over relationships or children. 
Yet, the D10 chart may be weak in comparison to the D9 (marriage chart) and the D7 (child 


94 


AstrologyKRS 


chart), during a particular dasa cycle. At that time, this individual may get married and have 
children, yet still feel a sense of lack due to the unfulfilled promise of career, as shown by the 
weaker D10 and emphasis on career in the Rashi chart. 


General Principles for Chart Reading 

It is not enough to identify these general principles, we must combine this framework with 
precise methods of chart reading and analysis. One without the other is of no use. There are 
specific rules and conditions that make events happen. These factors allow us to see both what 
will happen and when. 


Planetary Yogas — What Happens 

Now we will explore deeper connections between the planets and how they interact with each 
other to form yogas. The word “yoga” means to join. Planetary yogas combine planetary 
rulership with house tenancy. Meaning, as planets rule certain houses and occupy other houses or 
join / aspect with their rulers, special combinations are formed. Below are important Raja Yogas 
from Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, based on house rulerships. 


Brihat Parashara - Yoga Karaka Chapter 

v.11-12. Lordships of Kendras and Konas. If there be an exchange between a Lord of a Kendr 
and a Lord of a Kon, or, if a Lord of a Kendr is yuti with a Lord of a Kon in a Kendr, or in a 
Kon, or, if a Lord of a Kon is in a Kendr, or vice versa, or, if there happens to be a full Drishti 
between a Lord of a Kendr and a Lord of a Kon, they cause a Yog. One born in such a Yog will 
become a king and be famous. 


Commentary: 

~ When an angle ruler and a trinal house ruler join or exchange with each other in an angle or a 
trinal house, a powerful yoga is formed. 

~ If an Angle and a Trinal house ruler aspect each other, A Raja yoga will be formed. ~ Or if the 
lord of an angle is in a trinal house or vice versa a yoga is formed. 


V. 11-12 (cont.) 


If one and the same Grah gets the lordships of a Kon, as well as a Kendr, or, if a Grah is in a 
Kenadr, or in a Kon, it will prove specially a Yog Karak. 


Commentary: 

The planet that owns both angle and a trinal house by itself creates a Raja Yoga. When this 
occurs that planet becomes in some ways more important than the lagna Lord. 

Mars for Cancer and Leo 

Saturn for Libra and Taurus Venus for Aquarius and Capricorn 

All form Raja yogas by themselves when they are in an angle (houses 4,7 or 10) or a trine 
(houses 1,5 or 9). 


16. Rahu and Ketu. Rahu and Ketu give predominantly the effects, as due to their yuti with a 
Bhava Lord, or, as due to the Bhava they occupy. 


95 


AstrologyKRS 


Commentary: 
Rahu and Ketu give the effects of the planets they're joined as a house ruler (and also as a 
planet). If they're not joined a planet, they modify the house they occupy (and also of course, the 


sign). 


17. If Rahu and/or Ketu are in Kendr, receiving a Drishti from, or in association with the Lord of 
a Kon, or of a Kendr, it will become Yog Karak. 


Commentary: 
Rahu or Ketu in an angle joined a trinal lord or vice versa forms a Raja yoga — it becomes a 
Yoga Karaka. 


These are the main combinations of planetary power we will focus on in this article. 
Dasas — When it Happens 


Dasas are important timing system in vedic astrology. The most common is the Vimshottari dasa 
cycle. Specific rules govern when karma’s ripen and what produces actual effects. 


In Dasa cycles, karmas are produced based on the planet as a: 
A: Karaka (As a natural ruler) 

B: House Ruler 

C: Dispositor of a Planet in its Rasi 

D: Dispositor of a Planet in its Nakshatra 


There is no hierarchy in the above list. You need to look for a confluence of factors to see what 
the most prevalent issues will be: 


KEY: Pay close attention to when a Dasa/Bhukti cycle lines up with the Bhukti planet 

ruled by the Mahadasa planet. 

For example: A Mercury / Jupiter cycle with Jupiter in Mercury's sign or Nakshatra will be very 
active for showing major changes relative to what is indicated. 


3 Main Influences and Indicators for Any Area of Life 

In astrology we want to evaluate all areas of life based on three main influences. 
Planetary karaka — The planetary producer — Shows the common lesson 
House Ruler — The individual’s relationship 

House itself — The “environment” itself. 


For Example: Relationships 


96 


AstrologyKRS 


The Planetary karaka is Venus. It shows the themes common to everyone in a relationship. It is what 
everyone wants and the force that gets activated when 2 adults interact. 


The 7" House Ruler will be unique to that person based on their Ascendant. It shows the nature of their 
relationship — and to the common theme itself. It would also show the type of partner they would be 
interested in. The other house ruled by the 7" lord will be very important. 


The 7 House will be the relationship itself. Any planet sin the 7 house will modify the previous 
indicators. If there are no planets in the 7 house, then you can look at aspects to the house, in particular 
the special aspects of Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. A planet in the 1‘ house aspecting the 7" house is more 
focused on the 1* house. 


Techniques for Integrating Harmonic and Rasi Chart 


The three karakas apply in all charts. The ruling planet in the harmonic chart shows them 
in that area of life (for example, Scorpio ascendant in the Navamsa shows Mars is “them” in 
relationships). 


The planetary karaka is the overall potential of the harmonic chart (for instance, Venus in Navamsa is the 
potential for love and connection). 


The house itself, and the house ruler, shows the thing unfolding (the 7" house and 7" house ruler shows 
the partner and relationship itself in Navamsa). 


Read the harmonic chart both as a separate, composite look in that area of life (like that 
room in the house) and also as mapping specific Karmas as they unfold through different dasha cycles. 
However, this must be done with in the correct ratio seen in the Rashi chart. 


Case Studies 


Now, let’s examine some charts and see how these principles work in real _ time. 
I will assess the ratio of effects based on three charts, the Rasi Chart (Self-growth), Navamsa 
(Relationships) Dasamsa (Career). 


97 


AstrologyKRS 


EX:2 —- RA - Ratio of Effects — D1 (40%) —D9 (40%) — D10 (20%) 


This individual has three planets in the first house. Two of them are self-factors, the Sun and ruling planet 
Mercury. But ketu is also there, showing self-doubt, but also a focus on self-mastery. 


Mercury and the Sun are both Karakas of career as well, with Mercury being the 10" lord, and the Sun as 
natural Karaka of the career. If this Mercury/Sun /Ketu had been in the 10 house, we would see the 
emphasis shift from the Self to the career. 


Rahu in the seventh house will draw a lot of attention toward relationships, including quite a lot of 
confusion. In addition, having the seventh house ruler in its own sign (Jupiter), and Venus, the Karaka of 


98 


AstrologyKRS 


relationships in its own sign, one would expect romantic relationships occupy a lot of this person’s 
attention, more so than career, and perhaps equal to their own personal growth. 


RA’s Dasamsa has a libra ascendant, with ruling planet Venus conjunct Mercury in the fourth house of 
Capricorn. This is a very powerful placement, with both Mercury and Venus forming Raja Yogas, being 
two trine lords in an angle. Immediately this alerts us to career benefit and ease, whether someone works 
for it or not. In addition, Saturn, the natural Yoga Karaka planet is in its own sign of aquarius, in the fifth 
house. The 10" house holds Mars, and the tenth house ruler is exalted and with the Sun (a main Karaka of 
Career). 


At the beginning of the Venus dasa he got a job at the US Post office, which was stable employment for 
more than 20 years, after which he retired. Since then he pursues his true love of music, singing spiritual 
music in particular, and also service to his guru (Libra / Venus / Saturn energy). It is clear that a love 
music and creativity is indicated with Venus ruling the Dasamsa and the exalted Moon. Yet, the career 
ratio of importance for him is not very high, compared to his personal growth and relationships, as we 
discovered. 


If his Rasi chart would have shown more focus on career accomplishment, this d10 could have propelled 
him into great heights creatively. Yet, it served its purpose perfectly. It gave a steady, comfortable job 
while he developed other parts of himself — as shown by the ratio. Later he was able to retire and pursue 
his love of music, and dedicate it to his guru. 


RA’s Navamsa is similarly strong. There is a Taurus ascendant, with the ruling planet Venus in the ninth 
house joined the Sun, the fourth house ruler. Powerful Raja Yogas are formed, as the first and fourth 
house ruler (angle and trine lord) join in the ninth house. This brings inner strength and conviction to 
partnerships and shows a love of marriage (9" house is the marriage ceremony). In addition, Yoga Karaka 
planet Saturn goes to the fifth house, also forming a Raja Yoga, as the 10" lord in the fifth. Again, 
willingness to make a commitment is shown as Saturn rules the 10" house of responsibility and is also the 
Karaka of commitment. Also, Mercury is the fifth house ruler in the fourth house, forming another Raja 
Yoga — where creativity and communication is brought into the heart and home (4" house). Also, Ketu is 
in an angle with trine lord Mercury, also forming a Raja yoga. In addition, the seventh house ruler is in 
the seventh house, showing a lot of comfort and courage to get involved in a connection. 


RA has been married four times. Obviously, he is very good at it! He sees himself as existing in a 
partnership, and once he finds the one, he pulls the trigger and gets married. We can see all of the Raja 
Yogas in this relationship chart giving him the opportunities shown in the Rasi chart (Rahu in 7" , Venus 
in Libra, 7" lord in its own sign). 


There were several marriages of 1 to 5 years of duration. One wife died. There was also one long 
marriage of 18 years (officially). Many ups and downs and crucial, personal lessons have been learned 
through these romantic interactions. This is meaningful, especially in contrast to his D10, where we see 
one stable trajectory during the same period of time, even though both charts have similar potential and 
power. Rather than him going through four careers, trying to ascend to the highest level of creativity and 
contribution 9as shown in that chart), we see that his stable job as a high paid government employee is 
satisfactory. Instead we see him going through four marriages (also two children), fulfilling the ratio of 


99 


AstrologyKRS 


effects from the rashi chart, which clearly show his emphasis on his own personal growth in relation to 
partners. 


EX:3 — George Bush - Ratio of Effects — D1 (50%) —D9 (30%) — D10 (20%) 


This is the chart of ex-president George w. Bush. His chart is dominated by three planets in the first 
house, which will naturally show an emphasis on himself and his own self-growth. In addition, his ruling 
planet (the Moon, ruler of Cancer) is in an exchange with its ruler, Mercury (ruler of Virgo). This further 
joins the first and third houses in a constant dialogue between the Self/ truthful identity (1* house) and the 
ego/ enjoying life (3™ house). This is also called a “Kahala” (Cruel) Yoga. It does not mean he’s a cruel 
person, it means he will battle his own opinions and self-willed nature and learn many hard lessons 


100 


AstrologyKRS 


through that dynamic. Also, the Moon / his ruling planet is joined Jupiter, effectively involving five of the 
seven Grahas in this personal identity struggle. The Jupiter/Moon aspect also shows a tendency for 
drinking and partying. This was an issue for him for much of his life, until Saturn dasa started. 


Secondarily we see a strong emphasis on relationships, with both the Karaka (Venus) and the seventh 
house ruler (Saturn) in the first house. 


The career factors are much less prominent and important to him. The Sun, which is the indicator of 
vision and power, goes to the 12 house. The 10" house ruler, Mars is in Leo (the second house), which 
gives courage and power that comes from family (2™ house), but these factors are much less prominent 
than the Self and relationship indicators. 


This is surprising considering this man was the governor of Texas, then the President of the United States. 
However, when you assess the arc of his career you will see that period to be the only time in his life 
where he had success. Some would say it is also the only time in his life when he put forth a concerted 
effort to contribute to a higher cause. 


GWB’s Dasamsa has a vargottama ascendant (same as in rashi), the ruling planet, Karaka (Sun) and the 
11" house ruler, Venus are all in the 6" house, of obstacles, struggle and conflict. Yet, the 10" house ruler 
is exalted in the seventh house, and forming several Raja Yogas (5" lord in the 7 — 10" lord joined the 
9 Jord in an angle). Also, the second Karaka of career, Saturn, is forming a Raja yoga with Mars (its 
ruler), in the 10" house. However, these Raja yogas in the D10 involving Mars mix with conjunctions or 
aspects with debilitated planets, operating along the nodal axis, they involve natural malefics, and are 
therefore, complicated. The rules outlined above in the “Dasas — What Happens” section will be 
important now. 


GWB entered his Jupiter dasa in 1971. After several uneventful enterprises, he ran for congress in 1978 
and lost by 6% of the vote. He ran largely on his family name (as seen in the Rasi with the 10" lord in the 
2"4) and was successfully portrayed as being out of touch with every day Texans by his opponent. Later, 
he returned to the family business, the oil industry, starting an enterprise that later folded into HKN 
enterprises, which was later investigated by the SEC for suspicion of insider trading. During this time, 
(1976) Bush was arrested for drunk driving, and still working through a lot of personal problems until 
1986 when he decided to stop drinking alcohol. 


The Jupiter dasa presented many opportunities, as seen by the ninth house ruler in the seventh house, with 
an exalted Mars. These opportunities were connected to his family lineage (Ketu in 10" with Raja Yoga 
Saturn exchanging with Mars). Yet, when we examine what Jupiter rules, it is clear this will be a cycle of 
missed opportunities, distraction and halfhearted efforts, especially in comparison to the Navamsa chart 
(confirming the ratio from the rashi chart). 


101 


AstrologyKRS 


We see this clearly as Jupiter rules the sixth house, and the three planets in the sixth house. The ruling 
planet itself (him in his career), the karaka of responsibility and integrity (Sun) and (indulgent) Venus are 
all triggered during his Jupiter dasa — from the sixth house. This shows he will lose to his enemies (as in 
the election), and try to take shortcuts based on his family name and legacy. The six house factors 
combined with Jupiter’s dignity, shows many missed opportunities. Also, at this time he was still cycling 
through many issues related to personal desires, as shown in the Rasi chart with Jupiter in the 3"! house 
joined the lagna lord, and also ruling his Sun in the 12" house (Punarvasu nakshatra). 


GWB entered Saturn dasha in 1987, at which time he began to ascend in public life. Immediate career 
and financial success (of his accord) soon followed. In 1988 he helped his father GW senior become 
elected president. This was an important first step in his political career. Then, upon returning to Texas he 
bought an interest in the Texas Rangers baseball team for $800,000USD. He later sold that interest for 
$15 million, in 1998. GWB was then elected governor of Texas, and then to two terms of President of the 
United States. 


Saturn Dasa is much more powerful based on what it rules. In this case, Saturn rules the powerful Raja 
Yoga in his seventh house, the exalted Mars with the debilitated Jupiter (called a Neecha banga Raja 
Yoga). Saturn is immensely powerful and can even make someone the most powerful man in the world, 
especially when you consider it is exchanging with its exalted ruler Mars, and in mutual aspect. Yet, as 
was said earlier, the association with two debilitated planets shows the controversy, and unusual nature of 
this individual and his rise to power. In particular, the association of Ketu, which has to do with family 
history and legacy, is also quite clear. Also, in the Rasi chart, Saturn forms a Raja Yoga as the 7" lord in 
the 1‘ house. Saturn is also in his own Nakshatra (Pushya). 


By the end of his Saturn dasa in the middle of 2006, he had burned most of his political capital and was 
seen as a huge liability by his own party in the next election. Since leaving the presidency, he has not 
carved out any meaningful work or profile. 


GWB?’s Navamsa is much more stable, both in general and as showing karmas ripening during the 
Jupiter and Saturn dasas. The Scorpio ascendant is ruled by Mars, who goes into the tenth house with 
Jupiter, the Moon (9 lord) and Saturn (commitment). The chart ruler is participating in many Raja yogas, 
showing enormous strength and benefit. Mars is the first house ruler in the 10" house, the first house ruler 
joined the 9" house ruler, and the first house ruler joined the 4" house lord. In addition, Mars is in an 
exchange with the Sun, the ruler of leo who is exalted! This is incredibly strong and stable. 


Of primary importance, relative to the ripening of relationship Karma, we see Jupiter ruling an exalted 
Venus (Karaka of relationships). Venus forms Raja yoga, as the seventh lord in the fifth. Also, Jupiter 
forms many Raja yogas as the 5" lord in the 10% (Leo), the 5 lord joined the fourth lord (Saturn), and 
also as the 5" lord joined the first lord (Mars). In the Saturn Dasa, the same themes and associations 
continue, as Saturn is the 4" lord (angle) joined all three trine lords! It could not be much more stable. 


However, his Jupiter dasa started in 1971 and he did not get married until 1977. It is hard to overlook the 
timing of his marriage, and its occurrence shortly after his arrest for drunk driving, on September 4, 1976. 
He met Laura in mid-1977, and later said of their meeting and subsequent connection, "I saw an elegant, 


102 


AstrologyKRS 


beautiful woman who turned out not only to be elegant and beautiful, but very smart and willing to put up 
with my rough edges, and I must confess has smoothed them off over time." 


Early in his life, during the Rahu and Jupiter dasas, nothing would manifest in his career, or his 
relationships, as he was still working through personal struggles. As his personal issues began to settle, he 
focused on relationship first, then career, as seen by the ratio of importance in his birth chart. Whether it 
was earlier in life or later in life, his career successes were built on his family name. This is shown by the 
10" lord in the 2"4 in the Rashi Chart and Ketu in the 10" with Raja Yoga planet Saturn. 


One thing to understand, during his Jupiter dasa, there was much more potential for career success than he 
was able to manifest, based on the D10. If the ratio of importance in the Rasi chart would have shown 
more emphasis on career, and less personal struggle, the Raja Yogas as shown in the d10 could have 
shown greater success too, of this there is no question. Yet, that would not be the person who incarnated 
to have those experiences at those times. 


The combination of factors that catapulted George Bush to governor, the President of the United States 
was a combination of the “Rasi ratio” in combination with the Raja yogas, the principles of karmas 
ripening and the Dasas. 


To Summarize 

To Integrate Rasi and Harmonic Chart Factors: 

1. Evaluate the ratio of importance (remember the house and room analogy) 
2. Apply Raja Yoga factors to see potential within that ratio 


3. Remember, karmas ripen through Rulership 


4. Evaluate timing based on dasa 


BIO: 

Sam Geppi (Sadasiva) is the author of "The Ascendant-108 Planets of Vedic Astrology". He is the 
founder of the American Academy of Vedic Art and Science - which offers level 1-3 Certification 
programs in Vedic Astrology. More than 70 students each year enroll in the 9 month Level 1 Course and 
close to 30 students are enrolled in the level 2 course. Sam is certified level 1 and 2 through ACVA and 
CVA and was hired by Dattatreya Shiva Baba to teach the first Astroved Vedic Astrology Certification 
Program in 2010. 


103 


AstrologyKRS 


For free classes and newsletters visit his site at: 


http://vedicartandscience.com 


104 


AstrologyKR 


The Quiet Side of Me: Kapiel Raaj 


photograph by Kapiel Raaj 


Millions of people have seen me on Youtube and know who Kapiel Raaj is, or do they? You see me in 
front of the camera with my jokes, puns and parodies and think "How social this guy must be. He must 
be life of a party anywhere he goes." This is couldn't be further from the truth. What you see in front of a 
camera is Rahu, the illusion. What is behind the camera is Saturn. Camera, photography and cinema are 
all the crux of Rahu that makes you believe something which isn't real. A camera and Youtube can make 
you believe that I am the most socially aggressive person in the world. In reality I am (Saturn) 
introverted, quite and private guy. Rahu is reflection of Saturn on steroids. 


If you asked my wife what my dream scenario is of living condition. She would tell you I want to live in 
Montana, United States in middle of a horse range inside a ranch house. I want to have a wraparound 


105 


AstrologyKRS 


patio with a rocking chair, telescope and the most clear sky. I want to sit on that porch every night with 
my dog Yash and gaze the stars and planets with my telescope. When I am old and can hardly walk I 
want to take my last breath on that rocking chair under the most clearest starry night with a half finished 
glass of the finest Montana Ale. These are my dreams and moments I want to live; away from 
civilization, society while surrounded by mysterious of nature and the open sky. Growing up I was 
socially awkward, shy and never fitted in any friend circle. To this day I only have two friends whom I 
can call anytime and feel comfortable enough to go out to lunch dinner and movie; one of these friends 
you already know, Shalani from Shalctv. I have to mentally prepare myself when meeting even my 
astrologist collogues. But now I have finally started to put myself into social position because the more 
you dive into the unknown territory the more experience you gain in the world. But growing up I ran 
away from people or making any kind of friendships. I always felt I didn't belong on this planet. I just 
couldn't be amongst people of such thinking pattern that adapted to the ways of religion, cast, 
conservativeness and boxed thinking. This is the sole reason why I just couldn't be around people other 
than my family because I had to live with them. It wasn't until 2013 when I discovered that my soul and 
consciousness wasn't even of this plain. I am from the galaxy of Andromeda. I met someone through a 
UFO group including my own wife who confirmed I am an Andromedan due to my face structure. The 
forehand shape is what gave it away to this person. They also confirmed my world views and what I 
thought of life itself. These small test confirmed who I was. They told me I am here to tell something 
and to change something. It has nothing to do with astrology but astrology will be the building block to 
something bigger. What I wrote in my sci-fi novel Kyirux was indeed "The Message of Pascal" 
transferred through me into paper. 


My room has always been my den, whether it was my mother's house or my own place. I live and breath 
in my room. I am lucky enough to have a wife who understands my social dilemma and my internal self. 
She let's me be for the most part knowing what I do for a living. 


106 


AstrologyKR 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


My office is my spiritual sanctuary. It's where I feel like me. My dress attire inside and out has always 
been cotton pajama with an cotton undershirt or thin hoddie. I want to feel free and comfortable at all 
time like I am flying. My wife hates and love this part about me. She eventually had to buy 7 pajamas 
for me since I would wear the same pajama because I only had jeans and pants to wear. It's a burden 
wearing a jean or pant where sitting or walk just makes you feel uncomfortable. These are the little 
idiosyncrasy that makes me, me. 


Astrology cannot be a 9-5 business for you, if it is, you're in the negative zone. Astrology is a 24/7 game 
of chess that must played each day in order to become better at pursuing your passion. Locking myself 
in my room with Yash I feel it's just me, stars and the sheer energy of the knowledge that most don't 
have access to. My dream was always to wake up in the morning and go the room next door to work and 
not having to be stuck on a freeway, waiting for raises, promotion and office politics. It's not me. It will 
never be me. This is why I've had over 40 different corporate jobs because I knew they were monitoring 
my computer and seeing hundreds of websites on astrology, numerology and anything related to 
mysticism. One day working at a mortgage company I suddenly had an awakening. I suddenly realized 
which I had known subconsciously that what I am doing is modern day slavery. There is no freedom 
when you have to clock in clock out for work. That particular day around 11:30 am I made a decision 
and walked out without even giving a notice. That was the first day when I registered my website for 
astrology and started exploring how to expand my passion for this subject. Even my mom's own uncle 
was an astrologer which I found out much later on through my mother who showed my horoscope 
written by him. Astrology is in my blood. 


107 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


Creating KRSworld was not an easy task but knowing it was my passion it felt like walk in the 
park. All the littlie money I was making in the initial stages of KRSchannel while living on my savings I 
invested in a manual DSLR camera with an extremely good lens, which instantly separated me from the 
rest on Youtube. Operating a manual DSLR camera is not an easy task but since I've done professional 
photography in New York Fashion Week and Wedding photography, lighting and editing has been a 
second nature to me. It was actually the technical side of creativity that helped me. I was a filmmaker 
before and still am to a certain extent, and knowing how to edit through a professional editing software 
was the greatest asset I have. But changing the world requires daily practice and knowledge. Beside 
reading astrology books I also keep myself update with all the new visual effects that are happening out 
there; from Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premier, magic bullet, illusion to After Effects. I have been constantly 
trying to better myself and my presentation. Its not simply about teaching or discussing astrology, its 
how you present it that matters the most. A film with a good script shot on a 8mm camera would still be 
worth the watch, but if it was shot on a RED4K camera, you can surly bet people would pay top dollar 
to watch that movie. 


My future plans for this channel is to not only educated but to entertain people through my passion of 


filmmaking and astrology. I can't discuss what is to come but things are prepping quietly in the dark, and 
one day you'll see it. 


108 


AstrologyKRS 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 
Passion for 3 + 1: 


My top three passions in the world are knowledge about life outside of our planet, basketball and 
astrology. I've been working for a while trying to combine all three of them in a very creative way which 
is part of a secret project. I am not sure exactly when this project will start but it is in its embryonic 
stages. It was quite a delight knowing that Marc Boney and I share the same passion for basketball and 
astrology. While Vaugh Paul Manley himself was a top tennis athlete. My plus one passion has now 
become golf. Yes, I have to be honest. I wanted to try golf after hanging out with Michael Jordan for 
nearly 5 hours on a 18 hole course. Once I saw how the game was played and how much fun they were 
all having I wanted to give it a try. I bought the most reasonable clubs and went out to the golfing range. 


109 


AstrologyKRS 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


After hitting several bad balls I found my self confused and without interest. But I went back in time and 
remembered how I felt when I couldn't make a layup in basketball if my life depended upon it, and then 
to go on and becoming one of the most feared shooter on the court I realized I had to be patient and 
practice. That's what I did. I went to the range twice in one day and suddenly found my rhythm. I am not 
100% but from where I was at 5% I am now at least at 60%. Everything in this life takes time and effort, 
and you can do anything; just ask Andy Dufresne. 


110 


AstrologyKRS 


In trying to follow my dream which is to start fulfilling other people's dream by making video and 
content that they wanted to see, not what they were forced to see. Its a God's given talent that I have 
regarding what people actual want, whether its movies, food, economical system or spiritual guidance. I 
just know, that's my true wealth I have. I naturally know what people need. It's this fire of motivation of 
other people that keeps me going day-in-day-out. I work all day for that kid who might be 23 years old, 
lost, alone, confused and searching for answers on the internet on astrology while in his cubical. This 
time I want that kid to actually find some information rather then browsing through redundant cut-&- 
past articles on Jyotish. I simply want to give hope because I had none. I want to give hope to "Make 
your own destiny". 


111 


Make Your Own Destiny: 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


112 


AstrologyKRS 


I am writing this article after seeing the heavy toll astrology takes upon people in India. It's not only a 
pass time but a spiritual practice that most family promote and follow. This obsession and filtering over 
remedies, gemstones, dosha and impact of Sadi-sati can drive a weak hearted ones to madness. Most 
astrologers, too, fuel the fire by bringing such names as Kal Sarp Yoga and Pitra dosha into the picture. 
Someone who has no clue about astrology but looks towards this divine science for help can certainly be 
lost, scared and used by those who know the art of sale. This notion led me to create the magazine cover 
I did. You cannot let astrology rule your life and let the planets plague upon you. It's when you 
obsessively search for solution through astrology is when it can bring the native energy within astrology. 


I come upon emails everyday by people who only look for remedial solution of gemstones. They do not 
care what the planetary alignments are, they just want a quick fix of gemstones because it has been 
marked so well to them in India. Around 5 out of 10 people in India will be seen sporting gemstones, not 
for fashion reasons but for astrological reasons. Some driving a three-wheeler or bus conductor will be 
seen wearing an expensive gemstone; without it, success is not visible for them. Now, try telling that to 
some Hollywood stars here who were at their highest peek in the 90's and dropped to level zero but than 
arose again arose like the phoenix. Those celebrities did not wear a gemstone to get back up in their life. 
In Bollywood you'll see many celebrities wearing gemstones to improve their career, which I am sorry 
to say, doesn't go anywhere. An ordinary person seeing their favorite bollywood star wearing a 
gemstone for good luck instills a notion that only gemstones will give rise to one's film career, not their 
connection, hard work and yes, timing of planetary alignment. I have heard emails where the person's 
entire savings was wiped out because their astrologer recommended a expensive blue sapphire to turn 
their career around. It had to unheadted, untreated "Kashmari Blue Sapphire". J can't tolerate such 
nonsense anymore since I was its victim five years ago. 


It's the marketing ability of India to keep such astrological remedies alive and keep people obsessed with 
such nonsensical things like Kal Sarp Yoga, Pitra dosha, Manglik Dosha or even Kemdrum dosha. It's 
such terms that drives a person to spend their entire savings on a piece of gemstones which no one truly 
know is working for them. Gemstones work, but they are mainly for health reasons and such gemstones 
are not $1000 a caret rather $50 a caret. 


I am writing this today because I was one of those people who spent more than $15,000 dollars on 
gemstones in a period of 5 years without any positive results. The recommendation to wear those stones 
came form some very renowned astrologers whom I will say had very accurate insights about me but 
could not provide a valid result with remedies. It was when I threw every single gemstone out of my 
house that I realized the freedom in my life. J was finally free. 


I was also looking at my chart all day everyday. I was paying attention to mahadasha, antar dasha, 
partyantar dasha, Shookshma dasha and Prana dasha. These are sub periods that go down all the way to 
a particular week. I knew I had gone too far. I had to stop. Once I did stop and looked at astrology with a 
broader perspective instead of day-to-day life; I finally realized what astrology was. It was a tool to give 
you a basic guide to your destination instead of looking at your current transits everyday. It's like the 
glowing sword of Zelda. It should not be used with every small little solider that comes your way, it's 
only for those big trolls. One should not use astrology for day-to-day life, this will keep them stuck in a 
wormhole that has no opening on the other side. Planets work in a very mysterious way. The more you 
try to observe their move the more they will repel from their true action. The moment you ignore their 


113 


AstrologyKRS 


everyday moves and realize their big mission of mahadasha or chara dasha; that's where the magic 
happens. 


As a passionate lover and true believer of Vedic Astrology I would be the first one to say "Stop!". "You 
don't need to look at your chart everyday to be successful or make your dreams come true. It's the action 
you take outside your door that brings opportunity." Planets, even when debilitated, crunched by 
malefic or simply giving bad results in their mahadasha, are only their to tell you that it's time for you to 
get up and work and not wait for your Raj yoga to give you what you need. The psychological patter of 
all who use the council of Jyotish think that timing brings everything to them, they don't create anything. 
But it's you who creates your tomorrow, not the planets. Planets simply give you hurdles or joy in your 
path to your destiny, but if you don't walk to the destination you have picked in your mind, you are not 
getting any closer to reaching your dreams/goals. That's the free will you have. It's your choice to walk 
towards your destiny sitting behind the thin foggy pathway. If I didn't write my books 18 hours a day or 
make videos on Youtube with passion, I would still be in a small room trying to look for a minimum 
wage job. It was me who by working today created my tomorrow. It was me who got up and stood in 
front of the camera to talk about astrology; all planets were doing was either making the process hard or 
easy. At times my camera won't work, editing system would fail, I would feel down and depressed on 
some days while many times I was out of money in my bank account; but it was my free will to still get 
up finish the work no matter how long it took. It's you who can also change your destiny. Universe/God 
gives you free will and controlled environment to live in. God says choose any destiny you want at 
anytime. You want to change your destiny, you can, but the path your destiny will have controlled 
hurdles and joy, if you can make through such hurdles, the world is yours. 


For me personally, mahadasha, charadasha, transits, yogas, all they show is how easy your path will be 
to what you want to do. I never say you won't accomplish something in this dasha, no one has the right 
to say that. All I tell them is how hard or soft the surface is on which they are about to walk on. 


Signs of failure: 


The # 1 sign of a failure in a person I see all the time is when they send me an email asking "Will I have 
name, fame and wealth?", this one statement clearly shows that one doesn't have capacity to work hard, 
but are waiting for the easiest opportunity. This is something Ernst Wilhelm also disused in a interview 
with me on Youtube. If you were to tell Steve Jobs back in the early 1980 that you do not have the 
combination to become famous or wealthy. A man like Steve jobs would laugh at you, shrug your 
existence in his life and become the Steve Jobs he was destined to be. This not just about the will power 
or strength of Mars in a horoscope. This is the free will that us human have on this planet. God has given 
you a Set of rules to follow in your journey towards death, again, he has created a stamina and endurance 
course for you. Some participates get a easier path while other are on a harder path or advance level. 
Those who have the hardest path are the one who are remembered for their achievements. Those who 
have a easier existence only get a few applauds. This is why all powerful people around the world have 
had the hardest life. Just look at the biography of Arnold Schwarzenegger, the man refused to listen to 
anyone who said he will not be a body builder. While in the army he escaped the camp at night, went 
into the completion and won. He came back to a solitary confinement for 5 days. There are lot more to 
his life and what made him who he is. A man like Arnold not only refused to listen to people, he would 
completely reject the notion of Vedic Astrology, dosha, curses or whatever negative aspects are there in 
his chart. Sure, this determination is the strength of his planets and mind but everyone and anyone can 


114 


AstrologyKRS 


dig deep to find their power. Amold and Steve Jobs didn't have to dig that deep to find their inner 
strength, they simply had a harder path to power. 


Are there signs of failure in Jyotish or lack of motivation? 


Yes, there are natural signs of failure in Jyotish and there are two planets responsible for such constant 
downfall; those planets are Mars and Saturn. A weak Mars will make the native lazy, wanting 
everything without putting effort or a good fight. Saturn is the ability to have discipline, organization 
skills and actual physical work. If Mars is the fuel/ energy then Saturn is the engine, but one cannot 
work a car without the two. You need Mars to have energy within you to do anything, but having energy 
isn't enough. You should be able to get up and do something about it, that's where Saturn plays his role. 
Saturn is the actual work you do, the movement you make. 


To find strength or willpower and ability to fight one has to see the how strong Mars and 3rd house is. If 
Mars is strong yet 3rd house is weak that neutralizes the strength, if Mars is strong and 3rd lord is 
strong, this is when you have a machine willing to do anything to achieve their goals. Most of the time 
you will find strength of planets being determined by degree of planets, especially Mars. They say if 
planets are in very early or very late degrees; the planet is void of any strength. This happens to be a 
myth. 


Take Mars for example. Mars between 28-30 degrees of any sign will take around 2-3 days to complete 
this number. Just in 48 hours there are around 30,000 or more babies being born. You are to tell me that 
all those babies will have lack of strength, will power, stamina and ability to fight? It's not about the 
degree, rather conjunction, aspects, navamsa chart and ashatakavarga which plays a vital role. An 
aspect can mold and influence the planet just as much a sign and house placement can. A conjunction 
can influence a planet just as much the nakshatra placement can. All of this has to be looked at in a 
chart. 


Will power and strength doesn't start from the physical self or physical body. The true measurement of 
strength and will to do anything starts from the moon. Moon is the mind. If the mind is caught up 
between malefic or part of a negative yoga in the birth chart, this can make HULK into a peewee from 
inside. If Moon or other planets are caught up in a parivartan yoga between 3rd and 8th house, this 
causes lack of courage within the person. 3rd house is courage and will power while 8th house is the 
house of death; exchange between the two will cause death of courage. If 3rd lord is in a bhadaeskha 
house, that, too limits the potential for strong will power. 


People usually think that debilitated Mars shows lack of courage and will power. This is not true. Mars 
actually becomes too aggressive and out of control in Cancer and has short fuses to fight and show his 
courageousness. Mars and Ketu conjunction can shows sudden explosion of strength or willing to fight 
till death. Mars and Rahu conjunction can shows bold moves and too much strength within a person to 
break laws and boundaries. Mars and Saturn conjunction can show someone who is a workaholic, but 
it's this conjunction that can also give lack of courage if Saturn holds the lowest degrees in the 
conjunction. Any planet that has the lowest degree will have the most say in the conjunction. Saturn is a 
slow moving, fear giving planet, this effect of Saturn goes into Mars. Also, 5th aspect of Rahu and Ketu 
upon Mars can give fear and lack of courage. Aspect and conjunctions are quite tricky. A conjunction 


115 


AstrologyKRS 


can act like a fire cylinder for a planet while an aspect can throw a veil of disillusion upon a planet. But 
the effect of planetary influence should be judged on how close they are in degrees. Planets 7 degrees or 
more apart will have less influence on the other planet. 


If you look charts of some famous entrepreneur like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, Tony Robbins; they all have 
a extremely strong Mars, actually too strong for their own good where they do not see the meaning of 
"No", they only want to hear "Yes" and they are willing to kill for it. It's this type of Mars energy that 
makes a human into a figher. Yogas and mahadasha play a huge role, too, but even with bad mahadasha 
a strong Mars person can still cut through all the obstacles and get close to what they want. They do 
have this saying for no reason, "If you have the will, you' will find a way". Mars is willpower in 
astrology. 


Universe created the concept of astrology like a chess game. There are no definite rule that you must 
follow to win a game, neither there are rules that you are obligated to follow in order to win because 
there are too many options to break free from the planets. If you let the planets hold you, they will hold 
you, if you allow the prediction from a Jyotish to come true, it will come true because many simply give 
up after hearing the negative prediction, and they let the boundaries of planet deicide their next move. 
But, if you realize that astrology is not a simple cookie cutter game but rather a chess play, you can go 
around it and beat your planetary alignments. This is the truth of astrology which I learn from my Guru 
who is in New Delhi. If you had one encounter with this Guru, you will follow him like a saint as I do. 
However, I am not allowed to reveal his identity for quite some time per his wishes. It is these types of 
true gurus who do not look for fame and fortune, do not want to be marked or have lines of people in 
front of their door. Only the lucky ones or chosen ones come in their presence. 


116 


en ea 


AstrologyKRS 


CAREER CONSULTATION: 


Let's talk about career and destiny. How do I personally find destiny or careers that best suits a person to 
make the maximum amount of wealth. To do this you must learn several things. 


Planets 

Houses 

Signs 

Nakshatra 

aspect 

conjunction 

divisional chart (D10 Chart) 


All of this information, or most of it is already talked about on my Youtube channel (KRSchannel) and 
my books on www.astrologykrs.com. One thing that I still need to discuss is the game of other planets 
besides moon in nakshatras. Moon in Rohini nakshatra has a certain meaning while Jupiter in Rohini 
nakshatra has a certain meaning. It's this meaning of planets in nakshatra that play a significant role in 
one's career choices. A lesson which I learned on my own by observing thousands of charts and still I 
am only a student of astrology. 


One thing I would make it clear is that you can never ever be 100% accurate in Jyotish without some 
luck. If you get close to 60% you are doing well. This is because astrology is a mystical guide that works 
with intuition along side mathematics. K.N. Rao, the biggest astrologer in the world relies mostly on his 
intuition which he has developed through his sadhna, meditation and dedication to Krishna. Jyotish 
becomes a tool and a guide to increase his intuition accuracy. But you must also know how to use the 
tools with the intuitive power. 


117 


AstrologyKRS 


Chart 1 


Name: G (wants to say private) 
April 15 1985 

10:56 am 

Toronto, 

Ontario 

Canada 


BIRTH CHART: 


><11 moon 


AI SS 


. ~ 


~ 


118 


AstrologyKRS 


I came up with the career of films, cinema and acting but more so I said healing and occult with films 
and acting. This was 100% correct and I will show you how. 


He was born as a Gemini ascendant with ascendant lord in the 10th house. The placement of ascendant 
lord in a certain house shows where the life focus always will be. No matter what is happening in the 
native's life, the focus internally will always be towards that house. Mr. G ascendant lord is in the 10th 
house, this means his life focus will always be towards reputation, gaining reputation with public and 
society, career and status in life. There are people who have focus towards children or are obsessed with 
education and getting degrees after degrees. In this case it's strictly reputation and fame. 


After finding out life's focus, we look at the sign in which the planet is placed. In this case Mercury the 
ascendant lord is placed in the sign of Pisces. What this told me is that this man wants his reputation and 
status to come through his intelligence, speech and communication that invokes imagination and artistic 
skills. The sign of Pisces is all about spirituality, imagination, dancing and simply artistic talent. We also 
have to notice if any planet is conjunct the ascendant lord, in this case it's Venus. Venus is the natural 
karaka of entertainment, art, music, signing and cinema while Mercury in his own right brings the skills 
of mimicking and speech. When these two good friends are in one house one tends have great creative 
talent towards that house, in his case his career and image must involve artistic talent. But, this is isn't 
the full story. We also have to pay attention to the 10th lord and where its placed. The placement of 10th 
lord shows the ration of success one will have in his or her career and the type of work environment they 
will work in. In the chart you see 10th lord is sitting in the 8th house (Jupiter) in the sign of Capricorn. 
First, Jupiter is debilitated within 5 degrees of its maximum debilitation. Jupiter is debilitated at 15 
degree Capricorn, and it's around 19.34 degrees in the chart. This position shows that success will have 
dramatic rise and fall while working with other people in a corporate environment or working with other 
people. 


Second: when I look at a career for someone, I pay attention to the second house. Second house is not 
only the house of wealth, family and assets, but it's the house of earnings, how we earn our wealth or 
how we derive our wealth and what we value; being a artha house in jyotish along side sixth and tenth 
house, it shows one's source of earning. The placement of second house lord shows where and how the 
wealth/income for the native will come from. The second house in Mr. A case is ruled by Moon who is 
sitting in the 9th house in the sign of Aquarius. The source of earning will come through long distance 
travel while being involved in spiritual development of one's own mind for a higher purpose. We saw 
the house placement of the 2nd lord but now we must look at the sign its placed in. Moon in the sign of 
Aquarius as a second lord shows that one values a scientific thinking which bring a philosophical view 
towards social reform and social welfare. The native's mind is all about trying to prove spirituality and 
philosophy as a scientific research. They must also travel to prove this point. 


Third: We must look at the 10th house through microscope and see what exactly is the reputation of the 
person and the potential for success. We must look at the divisional chart known as Dasamsa chart. This 
chart in vedic astrology cuts the chest of the 10th house in birth chart and looks inside the heart, kidney, 
liver, lung and how they are functioning. Dasamsa chart is not really about pin pointing the career, but 
about pin point the image and success ration of the person. 


When you look at the dasamsa chart, you should always look at the Ist and 10th house, especially 10th 
house. In Mr. A's case 10th house is ruled by Jupiter who is sitting in the 1st house with Mercury and 


119 


AstrologyKRS 


Venus. This is causing Sarawsati yoga, which is a yoga in Vedic Astrology for creative potential and gift 
of artistic talent. This shows that reputation and success ration of the person is coming through creative 
things. You see how important yogas are in Jyotish. In 10th house of Dasamsa chart you have Rahu 
sitting there wanting to be the most famous spiritual and inspirational sage of all time. Rahu wants the 
title of fame and name through creative philosophy. Sagittarius, the sign that controls the 10th house of 
Dasamsa is about spirituality, law, philosophy and dharma while the lord of 10th is sitting in the sign of 
Pisces with creative planets. 


Fourth: Notice any aspects by other planets that might be influencing the 2nd or 10th house. Aspects are 
extremely important. They are Storm-troopers with laser guns. They can be miles apart but one shot can 
kill you or heal you. In Mr G's chart 10th house has no aspect in the birth chart but 2nd house has the 
aspect of Jupiter from the 8th house, which shows that earnings will come from putting intelligence 
towards things that are hidden deep beneath the surface because Jupiter is pure divine intelligence and 
8th house is secrecy, occult, sexual desires, transformation etc. In Dasamsa chart we should also only 
look at aspects on the 10th house. In Mr. G's case Moon aspects the 10th house, now even though Rahu 
and Ketu have aspects, they only have 5 and 9 aspect as the 7th house brings the axis point for both 
which is a black hole. Moon aspect on the 10th house shows one is emotionally attached to their career 
internally, because Dasamsa chart is the internal and fine tuned aspects of a person's profession. 


Fifth: The fifth and foremost aspect of my consultation revolves around nakshatra. No, not moon 
nakshatra bur rather the nakshatra in which the planets which hold the native's career/destiny. In such 
case we want to look at the nakshatra of the ascendant lord and second house. Ascendant lord Mercury 
is in the nakshatra of Uttra Bhadrapada. Many do not know or pay attention the meaning and symbolism 
behind the nakshatra, they all jump to the position of where nakshatra lord is placed. Since each 
nakshatra like a zodiac sign is ruled by a certain planet, its human nature to see the position of nakshatra 
lord. But, like how we look at the meaning behind moon nakshatra, we must give same importance to 
other planets and their nakshatra. 


Mercury is a planet of communication, speech, business, writing, education and many other things. The 
nakshatra of Uttra Bhadrapada is about long spiritual journey and limitation and hurdles in obtaining 
spiritual knowledge. Purva Bhadrapada is about receiving spiritual knowledge like a lightning bold with 
sudden transformation. This is more of a nakshatra that shows one will obtain their imaginative and 
creative spiritual ideas after learning certain lessons and hardship. Mercury here shows that one's ability 
to logically and analytically come up with creative ideas will requires the native to take a spiritual 
journey to distant lands and then finding inspiration from it. Saturn rules this nakshatra which shows 
there will be delay and frustration in attaining spiritual wealth, it shows one will find creative spiritual 
voice and business skills after mid life. Just knowing this fact about his ascendant lord I knew the man is 
extremely creative in writing and acting but feels stuck. 


We also look at the nakshatra of second lord Moon. In this case importance of Moon nakshatra and 
second lord nakshatra are the same. Moon is in the nakshatra of Satabisha, which shows that mind wants 
to remove the veil from the secret knowledge of the world, break boundaries towards the notion of death 
and sorrow. 


120 


AstrologyKRS 


Knowing everything I told you, my brain automatically came to a consultation that he should be a 
filmmaker or writer who talks about mystical side of life into his art and work. Shows the hidden secrets 
of the world in his stories and directing. The person is doing exactly that. 


I do realize I haven't made videos or written a book of other planets in nakshatra and their meaning 
behind it, but it's all coming as I am writing my detailed book on nakshatra and will make video series 


on my Youtube channel in coming years. 


"Stay thirst my friends...." ~Jonathan Goldsmith 


Chart 2 


Name: A (wants to say private) 
DOB:22/05/1984, 

TOB: 20 50 

POB: Pithoragarh (Uttarakhand, India 


BIRTH CHART: 


121 


AstrologyKRS 


DASAMSHA CHART D10: 


In Chart you have Mr. A with Sagittarius ascendant. I told him finance and engineering are his two best 
choices for career. He told me he did engineering and finance for six years and now he's doing 
consulting in managing money for heIS corporation. How did I come to this conclusion? 


Jupiter is sitting in the first house of Sagittarius ascendant, in his own house. Jupiter also aspects 
Mercury in the 5th house of education. Jupiter is the karaka of finance, teaching, spirituality and 
religion. Jupiter is also in the nakshatra of Purva-ashada ruled by Venus,. Porvashada nakshatra either 
makes a person a philosopher, philanthropist or a great advisor. How do we determine which one of 
these Jupiter is choosing? Well, Jupiter's nakshatra lord is in the sixth house in the sign of Taurus which 
deals with daily routine of money and currency, next, Saturn aspects Jupiter from 11th house of 
marketplace while Saturn is the lord of 2nd and 3rd house of money and marketing. The person is 
interesting in money and has the intelligence of manage money since the karaka of management 
(Mercury) is in the 5th house of education with a beautiful aspect of Jupiter, but, Mercury also receives 
the 7th aspect of Saturn and Mars. This made the education of the native technical and mechanical. This 
is why he did engineering and finance in college. However, Jupiter's position will always make him a 
great advisor and someone who will take great advise of his seniors. But as you know career of a person 
is seen from the second house since it's the house of earning and value and source of wealth. Saturn, the 
lord of second house is in the eleventh house with Mars creating a powerful dhan yoga. Saturn conjunct 
Mars usually makes one a police officer, athlete or a engineer. Since Mercury has a mutual aspect with 
Saturn and Mars from the 5th house, education was more emphasized than sports. His logical and 
analytical intelligence went into technical (Mars) and mechanical (Saturn) fields. 


122 


AstrologyKRS 


The question is why did he ended up being a financial advisor, even though his Saturn controls the 
second house? You must look at several other things. You have to see the current mahadasha, 
amatyakaraka and dasamsa chart to see which field brings more success. 


He was running Jupiter mahadasha for past 16 years. This means Jupiter was the most brightest planet in 
his chart and having the most say on his life, even more than second lord Saturn. The mahadasha also 
came at the right time during his youth where he maximized his time in studies which was a breeze. But, 
Saturn did his job too of providing technical knowledge because Saturn was aspecting Jupiter, the 
mahadasha lord. But why did he choose finance? We go deeper. Jupiter for Mr. A is the amatyakarka in 
Jamini astrology. This means, no matter what he does, he will eventually end up becoming a advisor and 
counselor of some kind, what kind? well Venus being the naksahtra lord in the sign of Taurus (wealth) 
showed his everyday routine will be as a financial advisor. 


Chart 3 


Name: Mr. T (wants to say private) 
DOB:Feb 12th, 1988 

TOB: 06:47 am 

POB: Kanpur, UP, India 


BIRTH CHART: 


123 


AstrologyKRS 


DASAMSHA CHART D10: 


Mr. T had a career consultation done by me and said he is losing interest in his steel and iron business. 
He wanted to know what can he do to fulfill his soul. I suggested him real estate, petroleum business 
while he'll suddenly change his career towards creativity and entertainment. 


He was born as a Capricorn ascendant with ascendant lord Saturn in the 12th house in Sagittarius. This 
placement of Saturn shows that his life focus is always into foreign lands and wanting to eagerly live in 
foreign places like United States. I told him about this in the audio and he said I hit a bull's-eye. He has 
being trying to come aboard for a long time. Saturn being the ascendant lord in 12th house shows he is a 
very disciplined individual when it comes to dealing with expenses and finances. He also has the 
patience to save his money since Saturn aspects the 2nd house. Saturn in Sagittarius in 12th house shows 
one wants to settle in foreign places that allows the native to bring discipline to their philosophical and 
spiritual beliefs. He is subconsciously wanting to become a yogi and a spiritual person since Saturn is in 
the mula nakshatra ruled by Ketu. He also has Sun (amatyak karaka) and Mercury in the first house. 
This placement shows he is a natural born leader, wants to order others rather than take orders. Sun and 
Mercury create a strong bhudha aditya yoga due to their degree closeness. Mercury is bringing business 
intelligence and common sense of dealing money. 


When it comes to his career we are going to look at his second house of earning and source of wealth. 
His second house is controlled by the sign of Aquarius co-ruled by Rahu and Saturn. Saturn as I 
mentioned is sitting in the 12th house showing source of earning will come from foreign lands and 
dealing with things related to Saturn like Iron, steel, coal and construction. He also has the co-ruler Rahu 
sitting in its own sign further clarifying that his earnings will be from foreign sources but through his 
own effort and business. Rahu in the second house shows that his life's mission and goal is to make your 


124 


AstrologyKRS 


own money without anyone else's support. He must also become the face of his own corporation like 
Steve Jobs or Bill Gates who appeared on their own company commercials. Rahu here will earn money 
by making an impact of other people in society since Rahu aspects the 10th house. He will need to bring 
illusion to his work which means (media). Now we are going to look the impact on second house. 


Mars from the 11th house aspects the second house. This show his source of earnings will come from 
Martian sources as well. Knowing that both Saturn and Mars are aspecting the 2nd house he would do 
great with real estate and construction business which he admitted he's already doing (buying and selling 
flats). I also suggested going into gas station business (which he also later admitted) his father-in-law 
owns a gas station which he is interested in buying. But why sudden loss of interest from Saturn related 
work? for this I noticed his mahadasha. He started his Ketu mahadasha in 2011 May. If you know 
anything about Ketu, he is about letting go of all material goals and desires. Ketu is about meditation, 
yoga, spiritual practice, occult knowledge. This is one major factor in him losing interest in his career 
because in Jamini astrology Ketu aspects the 10th house (career). In 2018 he will start his Venus 
mahadasha of 20 years. Venus is exalted in 3rd house, this shows that in Venus time period he will 
pursue what Rahu wants him to do, which is to go into media and perhaps advertise his company with 
his own face to bring more connection with the audience and customers. Venus will suddenly invoke the 
artist in him because Venus is a yoga karaka for Capricorn ascendant ruling the 10th and 5th house, both 
houses play a major part in fame, cinema, entertainment and artist skills. Yogakaraka mahadasha always 
bring a huge transformation in a person's life. 


If you notice his Dasamsa chart, his 10th house is ruled by Pisces with lord Jupiter in 11th house conjuct 
Mars in Aries; with aspect from Rahu on the 10th house through prashara aspect and aspect on Mars and 
Jupiter through Jaimini aspect. This also indicated to me computer science and IT field, which he also 
admitted doing. But Jupiter here conjuct Mars shows one is very aggressive business man as Jupiter 
controls both 7th and 10th house for his D10 chart. 


Right now due to Ketu mahadasha his career may not make so much sense or any other aspect of his 


life, but once his Venus mahadasha starts everything will come into place like a puzzle automatically 
arranging itself. 


125 


Chart 4 


Name: Sharon 
DOB: August 29, 1968 
TOB: 13:17 pm 

POB: Sutton, England 


BIRTH CHART: 


126 


AstrologyKRS 


Sharon consultation was an instant nail. Within six seconds of looking at the chart I knew she belonged 
in some kind of a medical field. Let's go step by step to see why I came to such quick conclusion. She is 
born as a Libra ascendant with ascendant lord Venus in the 12th house in Virgo conjunct Mercury and 
Ketu. This placement shows that life focus has always been towards serving people from a very private 
space like hospital, asylums, ashrams and monasteries. Virgo is the sign of health, healing, looking into 
details and taking care of people in unprivileged conditions. Venus as the ascendant lord is debilitated 
which shows one suffered heartbreaks in life in relationships due to which the native decided to have a 
relationship with the world and especially those who are broken inside, perhaps like the individual 
themselves. Venus conjunct Mercury is a help as it's a type of neecha banga raj yoga. But, Mercury is 
also a functional malefic and tightly conjunct Venus and is sitting with Ketu, a natural functional 
malefic. One important factor to consider is that Mercury is holding the lowest degree and in a conjunct 
the planet with the lowest degree controls all the planets, here exalted Mercury is supporting Venus and 
Ketu because they are sitting in Mercury's sign. Mercury has laid down the rules in the house. This 
conjunction show the native will learn through all the heart breaks and become logical and analytical 
person who will serve the need of others which will fulfill the individual soul as a whole. Ketu shows 
that one will have a spiritual connection to the divine with healing hands since Mercury shows hands 
and 12th house the divine hidden power. Ketu in the nakshatra of Hasta shows she brings past life 
experiences of healing people with her hands. Hasta nakshatra is about using your hands to do good 
deeds. 


Now we move to the second house which is controlled by the sign Scorpio. The lord of sign Mars is 
sitting in the 10th house in Cancer. Although Mars is debilitated it's also position in a very strong house 
with the sign lord Moon. Second lord in 10th house shows that source of earning will be coming from 
serving the community and society at large by using sharp objects, and ability to heal and nourish others. 
Mars in Cancer shows that one will have to become the solider of protection and nourishment and 
healing society. Mars in the Ashlesha nakshatra shows that one's energy will be used by developing a 
sharp mind to help those in place of sickness. Mars' aspect on Moon in Ist house energizes the mind to 
service other as well, especially Moon being in the sign of Libra (other people). Saturn in 7th house 
aspects the Moon as well. Saturn in the sign of Aries and nakshatra of Ashwini tells us that work ethics 
and ability to be organized will be used in serving other people through medicine because nakshatra of 
Ashlesha shows 1000 physics to Gods. 


Her amatya karaka is Mars, this confirms that she will be using sharp objects in medical field and 
nourishing others with her ability to protect people. Mars being the amatya karaka also shows she can do 
things in engineering and information technology since Rahu aspects Mars as well and Rahu is all about 
new age technology. She did her qualification in data IT management. But one of the biggest indication 
for her to be in the medical field was Rahu in 6th house. This life's mission calls for her to serve others 
and cure other people. She needs to deal with obstacles and health concerns of other people which 6th 
house suggests. Once I combined all of these things and saw she was going through Mercury mahadasha 
followed by Ketu mahadasha then Venus mahadasha of 20 years; all the planet are placed in her 12th 
house. I advised her to go into spiritual healing, like pranic healing, rekhi healing, energy healing and 
especially acupuncture which will involve her to use sharp objects. She replied to me saying she always 
wanted to do these things and she is already in the medical filed as a data IT manager. 


127 


AstrologyKRS 


If you look at the D10 chart, the 10th house is ruled by Piseces (spirituality), lord Jupiter is in the 8th 
house of Aquarius (scientific intellgence), while receiving an aspect from Rahu and Saturn from 11th 
house in Jamini concept, it was no wonder she was destined to do scientific education that would be 
closer to spirituality and healing. 


MY BEST BLUNDER: 


Chart 5 (The Blunder) 


Miss S 

May, 18th 1979 
10:30 pm 

Fiji, Suva 


BIRTH CHART: 


128 


NAVAMSA CHART D9: 


JUPITER 


MARS 
JUPITER 


129 


AstrologyKRS 


In this chart I made a very simple yet important error. I predicted the career best to my ability and it was 
as predicted, but, when it came time for current mahadasha prediction I told her that Jupiter mahadasha 
is a very good for her in terms of career, while since 2005 she has been suffering form illness, set backs 
and career demotion. Why is it that an exalted Jupiter is giving such negative results? First, the most 
important thing I ignored was that her Jupiter was a "Functional Malefic" for her ascendant, meaning it's 
moolatrikona sign 'Sagittarius' is ruling the the dushtana house (12th house). The next thing I missed 
was I didn't see the degree of Jupiter which was 9:33:00, while the ascendant was at 11:56, just about 5 
degree apart. The difference between the degree shows that Jupiter was actually effecting her in quite a 
negative way and bringing trips to hospitals (12th house), expenses (12th house) and made her put lot of 
effort into everything (3rd house) without much result. The next thing I didn't pay attention to was the 
chara dasha that was operating at that time. From 2007-2010 she was in her Leo chara dasha of 8th 
house, bringing tremendous amount of transformation due to the presence of Rahu and Saturn, 
especially Saturn in the first pada of Purva Phalguni nakshatra. But still not paying attention to the 
functional malefic part, and seeing that Jupiter was in the second pada of Pushya naksahtra gave her 
health problems. For the Cancer chara dasha GK (Gatinikaraka) Venus is 10th from the 7th house, 
which means major set backs in career in major and sub period time of Cancer/Aries. 


She has her ascendant lord Saturn in the 8th house with the cunning Rahu. This placement of Saturn 
bought major ups-&-downs all throughout her life which I did mentioned in the consultation, and she 
did admit to it. I did not want to go into details of such placements because I only wanted to stick to the 
main purpose of consultation, which was career. I also noticed that Jupiter was receiving an aspect from 
Ketu via Jamini aspect which also bought upon sudden unexpected changes to health because Ketu is a 
very unpredictable planet; Sometimes it gives the best of results and some times it take you places you 
would never wish to be in. 


If you notice the navamsa chart, Jupiter is sitting in the 6th house in the sign of Virgo showing major 
digestive problems, especially constipation. Ignoring such factors can have you miss the whole picture 
of the entire dasha. Such mistakes are always possible as astrologers are only human, but admitting and 
learning from mistakes is what separates a good astrologer from an average one. 


10th HOUSE and CAREER 


Since we are on the subject of career we might as well clear some misconceptions regarding 10th house 
which is known as the house of "career". What is tenth house in astrology? Tenth house in astrology is 
the house of authoritative figures, government, your father and your reputation, but it is not the house of 
your career. You only see ups & downs in career with the tenth house because usually the reputation of 
the native suffers when they do not have a job or are demoted. Originally the tenth house is ruled by the 
sign of Capricorn; if you observe this house from the most basic premise of astronomy Capricorn is the 
sign of status, reputation and government. The sign is controlled by Saturn because it represents hard 
work, service to the King, ranking in King's kingdom. The tenth house is also known as the house of 
father. This is another misconception that must be cleared. Ninth house in astrology is not the house of 
father, it's your gurus, advisors and teachings of gurus but it also shows teachings of father since father 
is your very first authorities figure who instills value, morals and spiritual teachings within you. 


130 


AstrologyKRS 


The first house is self and directly opposite to it is the seventh house which is your spouse. Fourth house 
is mother and directly opposite to is the spouse of mother, meaning your father. The question is, who is 
known to be the authorities figure in a family? It's always been the father despite the change in time and 
era. Father still holds the title of house hold bread winner. Sure, mother can take the spot of the father if 
planetary placements are carefully judged. But, since 10th house is authority and authoritative figures, 
the father takes the first title of that house. Why is reputation linked to 10th house? Because back in the 
days your status in life was linked to your father, his work and his own reputation in society. You were 
known by the name of your father not by who you were. If you watch any pre-historic shows you will 
see a boy being referred to say "Son of Théoden the VIIth". This is why tenth house is the house of 
status and fame. It's the highest point in the sky. When you go out and look directly up at the sky that 30 
degree sector of the sky is known as the tenth house. People always looked up to the king, a child always 
looks up to his or her father and fame comes when everyone see you. If there is a plane in the sky, 
everyone is the entire county can see that plane. Sun is brightest around noon time where tenth house is 
located. 


The only reason why tenth house was known as the house of career till 17th century because you only 
did what you father was known for. "The son of black smith". The son of merchant". "The son of 
farmer". These terms not only identified what your father did but also what you would be forced into 
doing. If that was the case right now there would be no need for this article. But, since we have come out 
of the stone age we might as well bring astrology out of the stone age, too. 


The ups-&-downs in career however are still seen from tenth house, but only for certain individuals. 
There is fine line between a employee and self-employed. When you own your own business, the ups & 
downs in career comes a tricky process. 


First, why tenth house for ups-&-downs. We use this scenario because someone with bad reputation is 
most likely to be passed on during interview process. If someone is well respected and receives 
accommodation of other authoritative figures then they will be the first one to get the job. What causes a 
dampen image of your reputation via astrology? that would depend upon transit of malefic and benefic 
planets over your tenth house. Now, I do not want to go into the details of what transits are if you are 
new to astrology but I will give a brief explanation. Astrologers see the yearly or "current" movement of 
planets in your personal birth chart. Since planets are constantly going around the sun, they are 
constantly moving through different signs in our zodiac sky. This means a certain planet, whether 
malefic of benefic, might be transiting over your sign which is placed in the 10th house of your birth 
chart. A natural malefic planet like Saturn, Rahu, Ketu and Mars might bring struggle and fight to win 
your spot in society and work-place. We no longer work for the king or his kingdom this is why I am 
using the word "work-place". A corporation, regardless of its status, acts like a kingdom and its CEO as 
the King. If the king is not pleased with you then there is a danger you might be thrown to the crock-pot 
aka crocodile pit. 


Let's fine tune this concept of transit. Not everyone will lose their jobs if a malefic transits their 10th 
house, even if they are an employee. An astrologer must see if the transiting "malefic" planet is weak or 
strong, is it exalted, debilitated, friendly sign or enemy sign. These things will tell us if the transiting 
planet will cause trouble or giving higher status to the individual. Even benefic planets can cause trouble 
during their transit if such benefic planets are debilitated, enemy sign, receiving aspect from other 
transiting malefic planets. 


131 


AstrologyKRS 


Another most important factor that goes into seeing the ups-&-downs in career is looking at the houses 
which the transiting planet rules in your horoscope. This is where the concept of functional malefic and 
functional benefic come into play. Again, you must read my book 'Astrology @ the speed of light’ to 
understand this concept. When a planet's moolatrikona sign rules the 6th, 8th and 12th house, regardless 
of it being a natural malefic of benefic nature, its transit of over any house will give quite malefic results 
unless that planets gets exalted during transit or sits in its own sign. This concept has seems to work for 
me for as long as I could remember. 


If your promotion is coming up while Jupiter is transiting your 10th house in the sign of Aquarius, you 
can surly bet that Jupiter will bring sudden restriction in your promotion due to your spiritual or 
religious beliefs and actives; perhaps your boss is a Jewish and you were a Muslim, with no fault of your 
own he might just give it to someone else. Jupiter is religious beliefs in astrological knowledge and 
when transiting being a functional malefic its significance can actually back fire for you. May be sudden 
death of your teacher or guru may disturb your professional environment where you couldn't concentrate 
on your work as you used to. But pay attention the degree of transiting planet compare to your ascendant 
degree, if they are 5 degrees on either side, it can give some hard time. 


If Jupiter was ruling your ninth house with his mooaltrikona sign and transited the 10th house, this can 
backfire even though Jupiter is a functional benefic for your ascendant. In the 10th house for Aries 
ascendant Jupiter will be debilitated, especially around 15 degrees. This could get you laid off or fired 
due to lack of educational experience or degree in your life or your promotion did occur but you only 
got 10% of what you were expecting. 


If Saturn transits your 10th house in the sign of Capricorn, Saturn here will give benefic results from 
elder co-worker, bosses and will slowly help you rise to better level in your company, but this process 
will be slow since Saturn is a slow moving planet and takes 2.5 years to complete one zodiac sign. If 
Saturn is transiting your 10th house while in the sign of Libra then you can expect great diplomacy at 
work and help from your co-workers. Again, even being exalted Saturn gives slow and steady results but 
they will be positive. But, if Rahu and debilitated Sun are present in the 10th house while Saturn transits 
being exalted, this can trigger a war within the company. 


If Saturn transits your 10th house in the sign of Aries then there would be sudden loss of jobs, position 
and rank in society. Saturn in Aries is debilitated and is forced into position where he has to take the 
leadership role in places which are not of his interest. Saturn will show that one might get humiliated in 
public since Saturn is a public servant. One will be forced to bow to the crowd even if their ego is the 
size of King. This also shows manual jobs when Saturn is in the artha houses. 


This is why when you are working under someone else, transit play a huge role in success because you 
are in the house of the king following his rules. If you break the rules 10th house will punish you. 


132 


AstrologyKRS 


SELF EMPLOYED and 10th HOUSE 


When you are self employed you are not working for the king, rather yourself. You do not have rules 
and authorities figures to answer to. You are the authority, boss and employee. It's you who makes the 
rules. If you own your own business, will you still rely on transits of planet over 10th house for their 
success & failure? Remember, 10th house is also your reputation and what people think of you. 


If you look at celebrities, they are not really employees rather independent contractor hired by a studios. 
When their reputation is tarnished in public eye it can easily hurt their career potential as well. If you are 
caught doing something stupid or saying things that one should never say, your product's sale goes down 
in a heartbeat and next thing you know the studio has released you off your contract. In this case we are 
still looking at the 10th house because the King has hired you on a project bases to perform your duties, 
in such case you are still not working for yourself, you are a contractor employee. 


If you own your car garage or electronics store, will your own reputation hurt your business? You are 
not working for the king and neither an independent contractor. You are the King, boss and employee. If 
you do something in public unrelated to your work you can still withstand the storm and come out 
winning. Just because you got into a bar fight doesn't mean someone will not bring their car at your 
body shop for a oil change. Not every customer will know or care what happens in your personal life. If 
you own a jewelry store and you are caught stealing something at a gas station you will still be able to 
go back to your shop and sell your jewelry without anyone knowing what happened to you the day 
before. In such case I look for transits of planets over seventh and eleventh house. 


Seventh house is the house of other people like public and customers because it's the house of business 
and trade. If a malefic transits is occurring over the 7th house then access to mass public and trading 
merchants could be hindered. If a malefic transits over your eleventh house then such transit can block 
incoming gains because this house is the actual house of gains of liquid money, network circle and your 
hopes/wishes. When such house has a blockage, it's like having a blockage in your heart's artery, little to 
no money may come or due to more expenses your gains will feel little. But even malefic can give 
excellent results if they are placed in good sign and pada of the nakshatra. If Saturn is in Aries, Ashwini 
nakshatra pada 1; Saturn here will give hard times regarding the area of life it's sitting in, where the 
person will be forced take responsibility against their will and might have to do manual work related to 
that house. In 2nd, 6th and 10th house one can become a construction worker or a laborer, while in the 
8th house one can be a miner or ditch/grave digger. 


Why not second house for transits for business? Second house is the house of earning and savings, and 
how you make your money, right? But remember, doing business is 7th house while second is your 
money saved through your earnings or when you are involved in your "family business" only. Malefic 
over second house can show money in, money out or waste of your bank account due to high expenses 
and family responsibility. One can have great incoming gains and business dealing occurring, but 
because they are not able to save money they will psychologically think their business is not doing well. 
You always have to see how strong the transits is over any house. Saturn transiting on the 10th house in 


133 


AstrologyKRS 


the sign of Cancer will simply show lack of emotions and sympathy from your co-workers and bosses. 
This doesn't mean you'll lose your job. 


The Crux of Transit 


Judging the transit of a planet in birth isn't enough to make a final prediction. When assessing the result 
of a transit you must also pay attention to the divisional charts known as Dasamsa chart/ D10 chart. This 
is the char that rips open your 10th house and shows the real pictures happening beneath the surface. To 
confirm loss of job and reputation to a serious point, a planet must transit either the Ist or 10th house of 
Dasamsa chart. Once this happens that's is when the down cycle in job is confirmed. Divisional chart are 
a excellent tool to confirm what you see in the main birth chart. 


If you are self-employed, does this chart helps regarding ups-&-downs in career? I would say yes, it 
does. This is the chart of your karma, what you do in this life, in such case business and employment are 
all judge from your karma varga chart aka D10 chart. But a negative transit on your D10 chart Ist and 
10th house cannot determine the final result. You must give 2 points to your main birth chart transits and 
half a point to your divisional chart transits. Only when both give a equal result of 2.5 points is when 
any malefic or benefic result can be judged. 


I can write a whole book on transits to show you exactly how to read them; actually I am writing a book 
on transits. It will come out in due time. 


134 


AstrologyKRS 


THE WATCHMEN 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


I have many people leaving comments on my Youtube videos and emailing me asking about my love for 
watches, especially big watches and which watches I wear and how one can see love for watches in 
astrology, and is it even possible? 


My love for watches was always there, suppressed beneath my poverty stricken umbrella. I naturally 
always picked big dial watches even if they were ten dollars. It was something unique about wearing a 
watch that can be noticed and makes you feel you spent your money on 'something'. My love for 
watches was quietly sleeping within me for a very long time till the age of 28. I was 28 years old 
walking in a mall, minding my own business when I saw two guys walking a head of me with one of 
them wearing the biggest watch I'd ever seen. It was complicated looking gold watch with some kind of 
a grill on top. I was suddenly struck by lighting and obsessively started following the guy who walked 
into a TV store at that time. I pretended talking on a cell phone trying to get a glimpse of the watch. I 
thought this guy is a major financial player for him to have such a big watch. This were my linkage to 
big watches and status was embedded, not knowing that symbol of a status via watch was not in the size 
of the watch but the engineering and brand of the watch. But since my DNA only loved big watches I do 
not mind about the internal engineering. I always loved and still love large face watches. 


135 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


The watch I am talking about on the guy's wrist was Zlatoust Vodolaz: a replica of 1948 Russian diver 
watch. Standing at 65mm in diameter. Most people think 50mm is too big, well, if they saw this they 
would think it's the T-Rex of watches. This was the watch that awaken the sleeping giant within me. 
When I got my tax refund back in 2011, it was the first thing I bought on ebay. Sure it's a re-production 
of the original watch but its still a beautiful time piece. 


I always play these scenarios in my mind about how if I was offered a Patek Philippe Calatrava vs a U- 
Boat Classico 2272, I would hands down pick the U-boat. Yes, you might be laughing within as a true 
watch collector but everyone has their taste and choice. "J like big watches and I cannot lie". 


I never really got into big name watches like Rolex, Cartier or Patek Phillipe. The biggest reason was 
they weren't big enough in size and the design of the watch was were common to millions of watches 
out there. I know those millions of watches took the idea from such companies, but I've always been a 
fan of out of the box watches. This is why I own the world's most unique watch: Nixie Tube watch. 


136 


AstrologyKRS 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


This watch looks like a gadget out of a James bond film. This watch has given me the most comments. 
Everyone who sees the watch asks only one question, "Is that a watch, how do you tell the time?" The 
watch works on a tilt mechanism where tilting it will give you the time in hours, minutes then seconds 
on the nixie tube. I feel I got a bargain when I got the watch. I purchased it for $500 but to be honest it 
can easily be sold for $2000. I saw this watch on the wrist of "King of Geeks", Steve Wozniak. Since 
then I wanted the watch. When I could afford it, it was the first thing I purchased from this genius 
engineer who goes by Cathode Corner. The man is a living legend in the watch world. 


137 


AstrologyKRS 


One of my most priced possession is a classic iconic watch. Tag Heuer Monaco Caliber 12 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


MONACO MODIFIED 


Any watch collector and expert might think this is a fake by looking at the watch first hand because 
Caliber 12 monaco doesn't have red hour and minute hands. Did I tell you I love the color red. Yes, I do. 
And I fell in love with the original version of the watch when I saw it back in 2008 in a store with the 
poster of Steve McQueen. The original Tag Heuer Monaco had a lot of red in it, especially the hour and 
minute hand. When I bought this watch I was in love with it, but, something was ticking me inside, 
something was not right, that's because it didn't have the red hour and minute hand. This is where my 
obsession took over. I knew trying to find the original Monaco or even caliber 11 Monaco will be a 
mission impossible, but my creative brain took over and said why not simply color the actual minute and 
hour hands to red. That's exactly what I did. I had the hour and minute hand professionally painted in 
Los Angeles. 


138 


AstrologyKRS 


Love for watches in Astrology: 


In astrological terms what do we look for when one has the love for watches where they either collect 
watches or become a watchmaker. 


First, what is the karaka of watches? In Jyotish Rahu represents the coming time as in future. Having a 
prominent Rahu in birth and divisional charts can show someone who is constantly looking for the 
future. Rahu also represents new-age machinery, this is why Rahu is the karaka of watches. A machine 
that tells the coming time. Any interest in clocks or watch comes from Rahu. There is a term called 
"Rahu Kaal", its this term that shows what Rahu is all about: time. Certain Jamini sutra also shows Ketu 
being the karaka of watches. I am not too certain with this but I am sure it has its place in jyotish text. 


Rahu is watches but collecting them comes from second house. I have seen over 15 horoscopes of 
people who collected watches where Rahu was placed second from the moon. Why the moon and not 
ascendant. Interest in collecting things starts from the mind. It's the mind that makes you addictive to 
things. This is why from the perspective of the mind the second house shows what type of assets and 
possession one wants to collect. If the second house is empty then there may not be any interest in 
collecting things, or not the extent when you have a certain planet in the second house from the moon. 
Mars for instant shows one like to collect sharp objects, guns, swards, knives. Mercury or Jupiter can 
show love for collecting books. Venus in the second house from the moon shows love for collecting 
jewelry or things related to fashion. This can be seen from ascendant as well but Moon is more 
prominent. 


139 


AstrologyKRS 


Career in watching making: 


Meet Carlos Grunbaum 
finest watchmaker in Newport Beach, Ca. 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


Carlos is one of my favorite watch repair engineer. He is not only down to earth as a human being but 
when it comes to charging people, he is the most generous. He will not take your money unless the job is 
done. I have to force pay Carlos sometimes because the job he needs to finish may not be done for quite 
a while even though he spent 30 minutes looking at your watch. That's a respectable and honorable 
businessman. Knowing what he does for a living I couldn't help but have him be a part of my magazine. 
I was as curious as you are about his horoscope. What is it in his horoscope that makes him a 
watchmaker and a watch repairman. 


140 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


Carlos fixing my Tag Heuer watch. 
Carlos Grunbaum 

December 13th, 1951 

11:30 am 

Venezuela, Caracas 


BIRTH CHART: 


JUPITER 


. | 4 : 2 > i y Pa 4 


141 


AstrologyKRS 


DASAMSHA CHART D10 


The horoscope of Carlos fits perfectly to his career. 


1. Karaka for watches = Rahu 

2. Career = 2nd house, influence on second house 
3 Jamini amatyakaraka 

4 supporting mahadasha/chara dasha 

5. divisional chart support 


Carlos was born as an Aquarius ascendant. Aquarius ascendant people are mostly scientific, technical 
and into new age technology due to the fact this sign is co-ruled by (mechanical) Saturn and (new age 
technology guru) Rahu. These folks are always trying to understand things through extremely logical 
and scientific manner. Rahu is in the ascendant in Aquarius shows the man is obsessed with time and 
space. It also gives him a very worldly personality who is able to do things which are foreign to most 
people. The co-ruler Saturn of Aquarius is sitting in the 8th house in the conjunction with Mars. Saturn 
and Mars conjunction is a typical conjunction for a engineer, lawyer or fighter. As I said earlier that for 
me career is truly seen from the 2nd house as it shows what you value and how you earn your living. His 
second house has Jupiter in Pisces, which is his own sign. This shows that he will be using his 
imaginative skills to make money and artistic knowledge. Saturn and Mars also aspect the second house 
influencing the second house and Jupiter. This shows that his source of earnings will not only involve 
education and imagination but technical/mechanical education. He has Sun in the 10th house in Scorpio. 
What does this mean? This shows that his personality is about digging deep and looking deep into 
things, his work environment will be about investigating things especially since 10th lord is in the 8th 
house. If you notice, he wears an eye piece so he can look deeper into the watch when he's working on 


142 


AstrologyKRS 


them. Do I need to talk about other planets that might show what he does for a living and what he will 
be passionate about? Yes, you can. If you look at his moon it's in the 5th house and receives an aspect 
from Saturn and Mercury. This aspect tells me that his mind is not only very communicative within but 
his mind works on a very technical level. 


What else can we look into to confirm that he is a good watchmaker? We can look into his Jamini 
astrology. It's no surprise that his amatyakaraka is Saturn. Saturn is the karaka of karma, time, and yes 
mechanical/repetitive jobs. It's conjunct Mars which adds the engineering factor in his earnings. Carlos 
can build a watch from scratch because he has the engineering skills of putting things together. 


If we look even deeper than we must open his 10th house in birth chart and look inside. We must look at 
his Dasamsa chart D10. In his D10 chart if we pay attention to the 10th house. He has Rahu in the sign 
of Taurus with an aspect of Saturn from 4th house and Mars from 3rd house. This confirms that he is 
going to be working a very unusual career related to technical things. 


What really made him adore watches? First, Rahu in his ascendant in his own moolatrikon sign gives 
love for time machines and watches itself. It's a clear indication of him wanting to work with watches or 
collect them. Rahu also aspects his Moon and Venus. His mind and passion in life is also being 
influenced by time. Whenever Rahu is heavily controlling someone's chart, they would always have 
fascination with time and watches. If Rahu happens to be in the 2nd house then one will be obsessed 
with collecting time pieces and watches because 2nd is the house of possessions and assets. Time is the 
biggest assets for people with Rahu in 2nd house. 


Timing: Carlos started his Saturn time period in 1986 which was the year when he first started fixing 
watches. Saturn suddenly bought work related to mechanical and engineering things. He hasn't stopped 
since because per Jamini his Jupiter, Moon, Mercury, Saturn and Mars all aspect each other due to dual 
sign placement. 


143 


AstrologyKRS 


Ray of Light: Meet Ray Taaffe 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


Ray Taaffe is a hairstylist who I got from time to time. Watching my youtube videos it may not really 
show that but Ray has been helping me grow my hair properly as one can go through really weird stages 
when growing their hair long. She has known about my astrological world since the first time she cut my 
hair last year. I thought she would be a good candidate about doing a career consultation. Now, I know 
you must be thinking I already know what she does then how can I predict her career? Trying to stay 
honest with the concept of the magazine I did not ask Ray for her personal information as in biography 
and what here interest are and before even asking her for her birth details I told her the planetary 
alignments that might make her a hair dresser which turned out to be quite accurate. But I found more 
career opportunities for Ray after looking at her char. 


144 


photography by Kapiel Raaj 


145 


Ray Taaffee 
October 23, 1991 
Las Vegas, NV 
11:20 am 


BIRTH CHART: 


a a 7 ; 4 
7s 


a 
ra 

a 

< 6 


a ~ 
a . 


VENUS 
JUPITER 


~ > A 
N12 7 
~ o 


~ 


<U11 venus 


KETU 
SUN 


~ 


146 


AstrologyKRS 


What is in Ray's horoscope that makes her a hairdresser? She was born as a Scorpio ascendant with 
ascendant lord Mars in the 12th house in the sign of Libra. Mars as a planet represents sharp objects like 
knife, sword, and scissor. A hair stylist uses scissor to cut hair. Libra is the sign of creativity, fashion 
and beauty which is ruled by the planet of creativity Venus. The 12th house shows working behind the 
sense towards something which will eventually come in front of public 10th house. A makeup artist and 
hair dresser work behind the scene on a celebrity or public figure who eventually comes out in front of 
the camera (10th house). There was no surprise as to why she became someone who works behind the 
scene. But one thing you have to know ascendant lord simply shows us life focus and where our energy 
goes most of the time, but career and source of earning is seen from the second house. Her second house 
is controlled by Jupiter with sign of Sagittarius. Jupiter is in the 10th house conjunct Venus in Leo. This 
conjunction of Jupiter and Venus while Jupiter is holding the lowest degree shows love for classical 
music, dance and singing. Both Jupiter and Venus are in the nakshatra of Purvaphalguni Nakshatra; this 
nakshatra is giving dharma about creativity and love for exploring spiritual education through music and 
art. In Dasamsa chart her 10th lord in ruled by Capricorn (Saturn) who is in the 8th house and Mars is in 
the 10th house showing parivartant yoga. This yoga shows great engineering and mechanical skills. 
Mars aspect on Mercury in the ascendant of D10 chart shows great technical skill of hands through 
sharp objects. 


After looking at everything she can not only work as a hair dresser but also go into acting, media, and 
singing. 


147 


AstrologyKRS 


The Hybrid Effect (A perfect Goulash) 


What is the hybrid effect? It is using Jamini and Prashara aspects extremely carefully to quickly 
determine the positive and negative effect on a planet. In Prashara Jupiter aspects the Sth, 7th and 9th 
house from itself. In Jamini astrology, Jupiter may also aspect the 4th, 7th, and 10th place from itself 
depending upon which sign it's sitting in. Jupiter in the 12th house for Cancer ascendant shows that it 
aspects the 4th, 6th and 8th house from normal Prashara aspect, but, from Jamini it 's also aspecting the 
3rd, 6th and 9th house in addition to the other houses because from a dual sign, Jupiter will aspect all the 
other dual signs. 


You must know the aspect of Jamini and how they work in order to make sense of this article. I have 
written about this in my book Aspects @ the speed of light and made videos on them on youtube 
channel. Once you watch and read the material you can come back to this article. 


The big question is how do you bring about the hybrid effect, especially when K.N. Rao, Vaugh Paul 
Manley and Marc Boney have advised not to mix these systems up or you'll end with a goulash. This is 
where we have to take a fine tuned approach. How does this approach work? If you simply just use the 
method of natural malefic and natural benefic planetary concept it will make all the sense into the world. 


Natural malefic planets: Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu, 

Mild malefic/benefic - Sun (Sun is not a full on malefic planet. He is a mild malefic because he has the 
tendency to burn things that are too close to him, but Sun is also the giver of life and the king of all 
planets, so he will not burn his kingdom to crispy critter. 


Natural benefices: Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, Moon (waxing) 


Neutral planets: Mercury and Moon. The reason why they are also considered natural because Mercury 
will give ill effects if conjunct a natural malefic planet; same goes for the moon. If moon is waning then 
it brings a lesser potent effect on a person but not fully malefic. Although in my case studies a waning 
moon was just as positive as waxing. 


Knowing these facts we can now go towards the hybrid effect. 


Chart 1: 

Mr. M 

April 2nd, 1985 

19:45 pm 

(due to the sensitivity of the situation I won't reveal his place of birth) 


148 


JUPITER 10 >< 


a 


He wrote me a very detailed and desperate email regarding his career and life. He is currently doing his 
PhD in clinical psychology but he has been depressed all thought-out his life, felt suicidal, was part of a 
very bad crowd doing all kind of shenanigans. He has gone to many shrinks and none could help him. 
Looking at his chart you can see that Moon is creating a kemdrum yoga with no planet on either side of 
the moon. However I can show you many people, especially well to do people with the same yoga and 
they live a happy normal life. His moon is also in the regal sign of Leo ruled by his friend Sun. There is 
only aspect of Saturn that brings tough time on the mind but Saturn is the yogakaraka planet for this 
ascendant. Saturn is a natural malefic. Saturn is simply brining a lot of responsibility upon him regarding 
money matters since he aspects Moon from the 2nd house. 


If Moon was in the 12th or 8th house it would make more sense regarding this person's situation as to 
why he is so ill in the "mind". He is not stupid, he's doing PhD even with a debilitated Jupiter and 
Mercury because they are well placed in navamsa chart and Mercury is receiving a neecha banga raj 
yoga with Venus and Jupiter. 


But, start looking at the chart through perspective of Jamini and Prashara and apply all the aspects; 
doing so you will see how every malefic planet aspects the Moon. Saturn aspects moon from prashara 
aspect while Ketu, Mars, Rahu aspect moon from Jamini aspects. Jupiter, too, as the lord of ill houses 
6th, and 3rd aspects the moon from Jamini aspect while debilitated. Before I even read the email I saw 
each aspect shooting its beam towards Moon. Remember, Mercury doesn't make you depressed and 
suicidal, it's Moon. Although mental illness is seen from Saturn and Mars in Ist and 7th house from 
classical perspective, including various other combination, but there are perhaps million mentally ill 
people on this planet, not all will have the exact combination. How I know this? because I have done the 
study through my facebook page in 2013 where over 150 people sent me horoscopes of their relatives, 
friend and family members who were suffering from mental illness. Hardly 20% of them had classical 
alignments. What made more sense was using functional malefic concept and Jamini/Prashara aspects. 


149 


AstrologyKRS 


How you should not mix Jamini and Prashara? You can't use the planetary aspects of Jamini in 
vimshottari mahadasha, or use Prashara aspect in chara dasha time periods. Leave them separate. Do not 
try to make Prashara yogas out of Jamini aspects or make Jamini yogas from Prashara aspects.Keep 
them sepereate, but the way we should intergrade them is by planetary transits, the yearly transits. An 
yearly transit of planet is not mahadasha or charadaha, they are simple unconcious moment of planets 
that are applied to both Jamini and Prashara. (Saturn in 2013 was in the sign of Libra. For Aries 
ascendant Saturn was transiting the 7th house aspected the 9th, lst and 4th house through the normal 
Prashara aspect, but from Jamini prespective it was also aspecting the 11th, 2nd and Sth house from his 
yearly moment. 


knowing that even if Mars for Mr. M is only aspecting the 10th, Ist, and 2nd house, you can't tell me 
that a natural melfic planet sitting in the sign of Aries, a sign that aspects the 11th house of Leo, will not 
effect the planet sitting in that house because natural melafic planets do not become natural benefic 
planet even in Jamini updasha. This is where the logic should come in and brain should seperate the two. 
I have not even gone to the second layer of Jamini sutra, this is why I do not dive into it during my 
consultation, but the surface part was infomative enough for my brain to quickly made sense of its basics 
steps. 


150 


Mr. N Kumar 

March 20th 1977 

1:20 pm 

India, AP, Secunderabad 


BIRTH CHART: 


DASAMSHA CHART D10: 


JUPITER 


2 e 
*. 
oe os 
™A a 


z , 


151 


AstrologyKRS 


This person is a software engineer who I did a consultation for. He wanted to find another job in the 
software field, but I had to spend quite a bit of time on his horoscope to really understand as to why he 
was not in a creative field; until I used hybrid effect and Nakshatra parivartan concept. By using Jamini 
and Prashara aspects but not mixing them up regarding dasha prediction, I was able to finally see the 
whole picture. 


His first and second lord Moon and Mercury are both in the sign of Pisces controlled by Jupiter. Pisces 
is the sign of creativity, imagination and spirituality. The mind and intelligence is being derived from a 
creative source, especially because Jupiter the lord of 10th house is in the 12th house in the sign of 
Taurus. But software fields can be seen through education which was easily visible. Mars in the 9th 
house of higher education receives the aspect of Rahu from 5th house. Rahu is new age technology and 
Mars is engineering. Through Jamini aspects Saturn and Mars mutually aspect each other as Saturn 
impacts the second house of earnings. This shows that technical and mechanical skills will impact one's 
earnings. But still not being convinced I looked deeper into nakshatras. There was a exchange of 
nakshatra between Saturn and Mercury. Mercury was using mechanical skills of Saturn while Saturn 
was using linguistic skills of Mercury to create a mechanical environment. 


We will not end there, we will go deeper, deeper into his Dashamsha chart of career and reputation. He 
has 10th lord Mars in the 3rd house with Ketu and Venus in the sign of Aries. This was the convincing 
part that said he should be in technical and field of engineering but only in creativity like animation and 
3D graphics. If we use Jamini aspects, Mars aspects Mercury and Saturn, while Mercury is in mutual 
aspect with Saturn, too. This was the final draw towards him going into software engineering. 


{52 


AstrologyKRS 


LOOK UP: It's your right! 


q = = 


photograph by Kapiel Raaj 


Gettting a telescope was one of my life long wishes and passion. I was 
finally able to afford a decent telescope to truly grasp the energy of planets 
and stars. The first time I operated the telescope my hands were shaking 
because I was about to truly look up at the sky and witness the heavily 
bodies that I talk about each day on my videos. My very first planet was 
Jupiter because in the month of March it was the only planet rising above 
the horizon around the evening while majority of the planets arose after 1 
am in the morning. Having a baby didn't make it feasible to take a stroll 
down the park for a look. But after seeing Jupiter in his most honest form 
sitting still in the darkness of space was truly an honor. 


After viewing every major planet in the sky over the period of two month, I 
feel its every human's duty to have a telescope to view the sky. To see what 
Prashara or Jamini might have seen at night. To talk about planets and not to 
visit them once in your life is perhaps the most unfair way of relating to the 
planets. The moment you see Jupiter and the mysterious Saturn, you truly 
understand why certain ancient sages picked these planets with particular 
properties and personalities. 


Saturn has to be one of the most distinct and most beautiful body in the sky. 
It looks like an odd ball in the sky. It almost as if it doesn't belong there. I 


153 


AstrologyKRS 


viewed Saturn for the first time in Sedona, AZ under the most brightest and 
clearest sky. I just couldn't believe that planet that is most feared would turn 
out to be the most beautiful body in the sky. It's truly a healing sight for sore 
eyes. 


photograph by Kapiel Raaj 


154 


AstrologyKRS 


It's A Fan Affair (Your Q & A) 


How and when did you came to know that one day you will become a famous astrologer? 


I never looked at myself being a famous astrologer. I put one video out on Youtube due to 
frustration of all the scams that were running in the Vedic Astrology world, but Youtube was 
going to be my platform to put some of my unreleased movies on and make some more short 
movies. But after seeing how this one web cam video took off in weeks and people started asking 
me for more information. I suddenly got everything in one single moment. I knew what I wanted 
to do, which was to save lives and give hope to those who lost faith in Vedic Astrology. I never 
lost faith in Jyotish because the prediction made by astrologers I met were always accurate, but 
their method of remedies and selling remedies was the black spot on the white sheet. I promised 
myself I will never sell any remedy unless it's scientifically proven and gives result within days. 
So far I have not found any such remedy except pouring milk on shivling in a temple. The reason 
why I advise on doing the Abisheakam in a temple is becuase you must maintaine shivling every 
day with proper pooja and sadhna which many will forget to do due to their busy livs. 


what combination makes a good astrologer in your kundli? 


In order to become a good astrologer the most basic combination that takes place is between the 
2nd, 5th, 8th, and12th house. Second house is the house of speech and counseling. 5th house is 
the house of learning spiritual text and mantras like Jyotish and Vedas, 8th house is the main 
house of occult and wanting to dive into the world of mysticism and eleventh house shows gain 
of knowledge. The 12th house is the house of spirituality, the other dimension and the intuitive 
mind. One must have strong intuition to be a good astrologer. Natural benefic planets do well in 
12th house for Jyotish vidya. 


You wanted to become an actor but landed becoming an astrologer....do u think acting was 
your true passion or astrology? Do you still dream of becoming a successful actor? 


Growing up acting was everything to me. I thought I'd be the next Amitabh Bachchan or Tom 
Cruise. I was so strongly passionate about it that I raised good chunk of money from strangers, 
including a very good person who was a surgeon from Mississippi. But when the frequency of 
planets hit, they hit you hard. I realized that being an actor means you have a limited time of lime 
light and you go away, without really contributing to the human race in their advancement. With 
Vedic Astrology I am leaving the most useful work behind for those who will search for exact 
same information that I once was looking for. What I am doing in astrology will go far beyond 
the limelight an actor or even an athlete has. You'll have many Tom Cruises and Amitabh 
Bachchans, but there is only one Einstein, one Prashara and one Jamini. A thousand years from 


155 


AstrologyKRS 


now people would still be reading books of K.N. Rao and B.V. Raman to learn something new. 
Watching a movie that is 300 years old might be nothing but a pass time. 


On many occasions you have mentioned that you have gone through difficult times .. So 
would request you to please tell us what kept you motivated and focused? 


Where can I start, from a hash, harsh home environment, with lack of direction from the father I 
was on my way to doom land. If it wasn't for United States calling me I would be someone who 
would only had 50 rupees to his name without any direction and stuck in dream land. The laws 
and culture of United States was like a missing piece to my DNA. I remember an astrologer back 
in 2002 told me, India is venom while United States is sugar for my chart. Looking at the 
economically systems of two countries, I agree. I must say if it wasn't for my mother's dedication 
to raise a loner, artist and misunderstood child, I might still be struggling in U.S. No one knows 
this about me till now. I had zero relationship with my father. If you calculated all the hours that 
I had a conversation with him growing up, it would equal to no more than 60-120 minutes, if 
that. Since I was 16 I wanted to become a father, especially because I wanted to nourish a life the 
way I wish my father had done to me. Without a father a child is seriously directionless. It was 
simply my own determination to beat all odds that got me here. From my ex's, to cousins and 
family members, everyone thought "Kapiel" will never make it. 


What are your future plans? 


Just keep going with Vedic Astrology and make a the most vicious impact upon people regarding 
astrology. I want to make astrology cool again as it was back in Prashara days. If I can just make 
the population realize there is more to astrology than sun sign and moon sign, I think I 
accomplished my mission. 


What keeps you going fearlessly? 

To give answers that you are searching for desperately online regarding Vedic Astrology. To 
make sure I make a Disneyland theme park out of astrology. If there is information one needs on 
astrology, KRSchannel will have it. I want to give you the world of astrology before I go to the 
next place. 

How and where did you meet Mrs Raaj? 

I met my soul mate on online dating site called POF.com, we met, and after the first date we both 
took our profiles off because we knew this was it. We had found each other. We met on 


September 7th 2012. 


What was the biggest confusion in your life and ‘'how' did you resolve it to find the 
simple/difficult answer? 


My biggest confusion was to know thyself. I came to a point where I just didn't know what the 
hell my purpose was in this life. I asked this question during my Ketu antar dasha, a period that 


156 


AstrologyKRS 


separates you from material world and takes you to another world. After going through this time 
I knew my path. 


Did you ever think you would be teaching astrology to others one day? 


If you asked me this question even 5 years ago I would've laughed at you, but few lucky human 
beings go through an epiphany in their life where a single moment changes everything for them. 
That happened to me at 2:00 am when I decided to open my Youtube channel. This was the time 
my 'amatyakaraka' awoken. 


What is your ideal life that you want to live? 


This is something I ponder everyday, especially when I watch HGTV or Travel channel. My idea 
of a ideal lifestyle would be to live in Montana in open range farm house with a wrap around 
patio. No neighbors, just me, my wife, farm animals while my kids and family are living their 
life in the regular world. I want to sit in the patio with a bottle of beer, pull out my telescope and 
search. Search for the truth and for to solve some mystery about this Universe. I actually want to 
die the same way. I want to be sitting on a rocking chair during twilight time looking at the stars 
and planets, and BOOM. Just leave. I don't want "Me" to be effecting anything in this world 
except "My work". It's my work and research on astrology that should be paid attention to. I am 
just a cluster of electron and proton moving at extreme speeds. I'll be gone @ the speed of light. 


I am a very private and isolated person. I barely have one close friend. The things I experienced 
in my life have isolated me since childhood. I love being alone. If you ever see me at a party 
sitting in the corner quietly, just know I am enjoying life to the max. I am more of a observer 
than a engager. 


17 


A Different Perspective: Meet Ernst Wilhelm 


- 
photograph by Kapiel Raaj 


Ernst Wilhelm had his horoscope read at the age of 20. After talking about many 
mundane things the astrologer, Nancy, pulled out an ephemeris and table of houses and without 
any explanation started to teach Ernst how to calculate horoscopes. She then gave Ernst the 
books necessary to calculate a horoscope and sent him on his way wondering, "what am I 
supposed to do with these big fat books?" A year later Ernst had his answer when heartbroken 
from a rough relationship he turned to astrology for all the answers, and found them there, upon 
which he decided to give up his natural healing career and devote his life to astrology. 


Ernst vigorously studied Western Astrology for 3 years, after which he felt unsatisfied 
and being at a loss at what to do, he followed up on the feeling that he should go and live in an 
Ashram for 8 months. A month after arriving there he had a dream on the night of his 25th 
birthday that prompted him to purchase a copy of Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, one of the 
foundation books of Vedic-Astrology, from that day forward in 1995 he has devoted his life to 
studying the Astrology hidden and tucked away in the books found only in India. Thanks to the 
ashram meditation schedule of 20 hours a week, Ernst rapidly learned Vedic Astrology and after 


158 


AstrologyKRS 


leaving the Ashram in late 1995 Ernst started to read horoscopes and teach Vedic Astrology as 
his full time career. 


Since then Ernst has published four books and written thousands of pages for his course 
manuals. Ernst has taught extensive and very involved courses on Vargas, Dasas, Muhurta, 
Jaimini Sutras, Transits, Avasthas, Varshaphala, Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, Compatibility, 
Medical Astrology, Rahu and Ketu, and rectification. All Ernst's courses and books are available 
at www.vedic-astrology.net and www.astrology-videos.com. 

Jaimini Sutras is one of Ernst's favorite branches of astrology. In order to study Jaimini 
thoroughly and originally, Ernst began to learn Sanskrit in 2000 after being unsatisfied with the 
available translations. Since then Ernst has made many ground breaking researches in Jaimini 
techniques. Ernst has also made ground breaking researches in the areas of compatibility, 
Muhurta, Parashara's Avasthas, Shad Bala, Varshaphala, medical astrology, gem therapy, transits 
and divisional charts. 

In conjunction with his wife, Srishti, Ernst has developed Kala Vedic Astrology 
Software, a multi language software popular in the US, Germany, Russia, Hungary, Iran and 
Israel. Ernst and Srishti have also developed online report software for both themselves and third 
parties. Some of these reports are available at www.vaultoftheheavens.com. 


— 4 


photograph by Kapiel Raaj 


As his friends always tell him, "even Ernst can't use his brain 24 hours a day." So when 
he is not thinking about astrology Ernst spends his time hiking with his wife and children, riding 
bikes, practicing martial arts, weight lifting, gardening, or working with his hands on cars, 
bicycles, painting, jewelry and even watches. Ernst believes that good diet, exercise, manual skill 
development and good hard labor are critical for everyone and that doing these things helps 
maintain a balance that provides better functioning of the brain, emotions and spirit. 


| bebe 


AstrologyKRS 


photograph by Kapiel Raaj 


Jaimini's Secret Path 


A few centuries before the Christian Era (according to Prof. KV Abhyankar) a text was 
penned and attributed to one by the name of Jaimini. Who Jaimini was, whether he wrote by his 
own hand the very words in the existing texts attributed to him, or whether his lineage of words 
were written down at that time are not known. We know, in fact, nothing concrete regarding the 
text or its author. A brief examination of the text, however, clearly shows that the level of 
astrological significance and authorship goes far beyond genius. Many students of astrology 
believe that this text was written by the same Jaimini responsible for the Mimamsaka 
philosophy. While this is possible, there is no proof to ascertain that fact; however, the level of 
genius seen in the text could only be penned by a sage of equal insight. 

Jaimini's principles of astrology are known as the Upadesa Sutras as per Upadesa being the 
first word found in the first Sutra of the text. Now just what is Upadesa? Upadesa are the 
initiatory techniques, which, according to Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, are ruled by the 3rd 
house. The 3rd house, when it comes to techniques has to do with structured, scientific and 
replicable techniques. It's a house of skill, not intuition; a house of measurement, not faith. Its 
every scientific astrologers dream. Jaimini's Sutras contain the largest selection of step-by-step 


160 


AstrologyKRS 


techniques of any other astrological text. Where most text concern themselves with countless 
Yogas and few techniques, Jaimini concerns himself with what every astrologer wants, 
systematic techniques that work. 

Sounds to good to be true, doesn't it? You know what they say, if it sounds to good to be true, 
it's probably not true and so it is in this case. Jaimini really does give us countless step-by-step 
techniques, but he secrets them into coded Sanskrit and as if that is not cruel enough to all of us 
aspiring astrologers, he hides what we want in plain sight - the hardest place to find something. 
The result of Jaimini's "trickery" is that every technique and principle found in his Sutras are 
practiced and translated differently by different astrologers - in short, everyone gets confused. 


Why would an author of Jaimini's genius write a text that only serves to confuse the 
astrologers who were to come after him? There are a few possibilities. One possibility is that he 
wanted his ideas to survive the dark age of Kali Yuga and by creating Sutras of no obvious 
meaning, it would become more difficult for those Sutras to become corrupt. Had the Sutras been 
written in plain Sanskrit, they could have been retold in loose Sanskrit by someone of lesser 
understanding and some meaning would have been lost. But by being in cryptic Sanskrit that no 
one understood, they could only be passed down in their original cryptic form. Jaimini may also 
have not wanted his so very easy to practice techniques used by every astrologer of the Kali 
Yuga, but only by the most brilliant - those brilliant enough to gain the meanings that Jaimini 
intended. 


After working on Jaimini's text for many years, I have come to the conclusion that Jaimini 
had a much more important reason to encrypt his Sutras and hide the meanings. I believe that he 
did it because he is a teacher. Yeah, you are thinking, OBVIOUSLY he is an astrology teacher, 
but I am saying no, he is a TEACHER. Jaimini does not want to teach astrology to you. He wants 
to teach YOU. What I mean by this is that he wants to teach you the profound capacity for 
knowledge that is within you. That is what a real teacher does. Any other teacher, is a charlatan- 
myself, sadly, included. Any other teacher tells you what do to, what a planetary position means, 
etc. And you learn a bunch of information that you can put to use. You can use it to make 
money, to look cool, to think that you know what is going on, etc. But Jaimini writes his key 
Sutras in such a way that they are impossible to understand. No matter how much you engage 
your brain, they are impossible to understand the way that he wants you to... unless you 
contemplate his words... and then they still don't make sense... Until one day, a light goes off in 
your consciousness and you know that something in the Sutra has a particular meaning and then 
you run to your Jaimini book, look at that Sutra, and see that the truth that Jaimini wanted you to 
understand was written plain as day. Now that is teaching, now that is learning - it's the kind of 
learning that makes you forget about money or looking cool, and forget about thinking that you 
know anything. Instead, it's the kind of learning that makes you realize that truth really is inside 
of you and that all you have to do to learn ANYTHING is to deeply contemplate what is right in 
front of you until understanding comes from within. That is the true trickery of Jaimini - he 
secretly writes down his ideas and hides them in plain sight so that in trying to learn astrology 


161 


AstrologyKRS 


you walk down a path of contemplation and true understanding. Jai Guru is all I can say to 
Jaimini for his work. 


Jaimini's Sutras are written in such a way that not until you correctly understand the proper 
astronomical, numerological, behavioral or astrological relationships of creation, you cannot 
understand his Sutras. Jaimini does not tell you these relationships, he expects you to discover 
them from within and once that is done, the meaning of his Sutras are plain as day. This can be a 
long path of discovery. I fondly remember spending two years on one Sutra! That is just what it 
takes to understand what Jaimini wants us to do. 

Unfortunately... I hate to be critical, but I just don't have any choice in the matter, most 
"Jaimini" astrologers have not spent the necessary time to contemplate the key Sutras in Jaimini, 
instead, they have copied down the meanings of similar sutras that are found in Brihat Parashara 
Hora Shastra. Yes, that is right, Jaimini looking stuff is found in Brihat Parashara Hora 
Shastra, but its written in plain, simple to understand Sanskrit - unfortunately, all the technique 
centered stuff is wrong, including the Rasi Dasa calculations. What is in Brihat Parashara Hora 
Shastra is not from Parashara, it's just a bad Jaimini interpretation that got included in Brihat 
Parashara Hora Shastra when it was recompiled in the 1800s. Such is my opinion which is 
based on just how bad the results are if trying to use the Jaimini stuff in Brihat Parashara Hora 
Shastra. Don't use the stuff in Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra if you want to do Jaimini. In 
addition to copying what is found in Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, the more educated Jaimini 
astrologers have studied a couple old Jaimini commentaries that are in existence. But those 
commentaries are lacking in Jaimini's original meaning- the authors simply did not understand 
Jaimini. So when you look around at available Jaimini Sutra translations, you are really just 
getting 80% Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra corrupted techniques, and 20% of God Knows 
What, with only a little bit of that being a real Jaimini technique. And that is exactly how Jaimini 
wants it to be! 


The way to study Sutras, the spirit of Jaimini, is to read the Sutras in their original Sanskrit, 
or to read their perfectly literal translations and these literal translations will leave you totally 
confused, just where Jaimini wants you to be, so that you can contemplate and find the 
realizations that he wants you to have. Unfortunately, there is not a single literal translation of 
Jaimini available (not yet anyway, though my literal translation of the first Quarter of Jaimini 
should be out in April). Instead, the available translations of Jaimini are not translations, they are 
the translator's thoughts of what the Sutras mean. That is good, we need the translator's thoughts, 
but we also need to know exactly what Jaimini wrote, even if it does not make any sense - 
especially if it does not make any sense. We need that so as our knowledge deepens we can gain 
additional insights. But left with just the translator's thoughts, well, that is all we will ever get, 
the translator's thoughts. I don't know about you, but I want Jaimini's thoughts, though I am 
happy to hear other educated folk's thoughts as well - but Iam there for Jaimini's thoughts. 

A perfect example of Jaimini hiding something in plain site are Sutras 1.1.25-27: 


1.1.25a. pracivrittir visamabhesu. 


162 


AstrologyKRS 


praci — directed forward or toward. vrittih — Nom. behavior, rule, common practice. visama — 
odd. bhesu — Loc. Pl. Rasis of the zodiac. 
Forward rule at the odd Rasis. 


1.1.26. paravrittyottaresu. 

para — opposite. vrittya — Jnstr. behavior, rule, common practice. uttaresu — Loc. Pl. what 
remains or is left. 

Opposite rule at what is left. 


1.1.27. na kvacit. 
na — not. kvacit — sometimes, somewhere, in certain cases. 
Not sometimes. 


In these three Sutras Jaimini tell us that the rule is to go or count forwards from odd Rasis: 
Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquarius, and to go opposite for the other Rasis, 
namely the even Rasis: Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces. But then he 
stipulates with "Not sometimes." The question is, what are these sometimes? Commentators have 
made up and looked in other places of Jaimini for all kinds of "Not sometimes." The most 
common is the idea that for Leo and Aquarius, which are odd Rasis, we need to count backwards 
and that for Taurus and Scorpio, which are even signs that we need to count forwards. This is 
due to Jaimini stating that for the Drig Dasa calculation, and that is correct, for Drig Dasa that is 
the way. But here in this first section of his Sutras Jaimini is giving us the fundamental principles 
for his work and he is not going to repeat a fundamental chapters later, he is going to teach all 
the fundamentals right here where he said he would when he started the chapter in Sutra 1.1.1: 


upadesa vyakhyasyamah. 


upadesa — Acc. instructions, teaching, initiation, formula, communication of the initiatory 
technique. vyakhya — Nom explanation, exposition, paraphrase, anything that can only be 
understood by explanation. syamah — I shall explain in detail, tell in full. 

I shall tell in full the teaching/formula/nitiatory technique. 


So no, that is not what he means by "not sometimes." Remember, Jaimini tells us exactly 
what he wants us to do. Step-by-step. He is perfectly clear, the question is, are we clear enough 
to see it? To see what Jaimini means by "not sometimes" let's pretend that you and I are having a 
conversation about one of my favorite subjects, women in relationship. And the conversation 
goes like this: 


You: What are woman like and how can I benefit from my woman the most? 
Me: They are like the Moon. Parashara tells us that the Moon is round and full of knowing so 
women easily adapt and change direction as necessary to insure their greatest wellbeing and thus 
the wellbeing of society - society being something the Moon rules as well. Being full of 


163 


AstrologyKRS 


knowing, women really do have female intuition. They have the capacity to just know something 
- to know the right thing, or to recognize the wrong thing - even without having studied 
something. So when a drop of advice just pops out of your woman, follow it, even if it does not 
make sense - if you don't, you will find yourself in a mess or trouble! 

You: That is hard for my big male ego to believe, but I am going to try that! 

Me: But sometimes don't (i.e., "not sometimes"). 


After my saying, sometimes don't. Do you think I am going to just say that and leave you 
hanging? No, of course not, rather, the next words out of my mouth will be the times when not to 
listen to what pops out of your woman's mouth, cause in those times if you do, you will get into 
trouble. (To find out those times listen to my Vedic Astrology Relationship Compatibility 
Course.) So the next words out of my mouth will be the "not sometimes." And that is exactly 
how Jaimini does it. The next few Sutras are the "not sometimes" that he means! So just go read 
those next few Sutras after the "not sometimes" Sutra and then start calculating Dasas and Dasa 
length's the right way, the Jaimini way. Not understanding Jaimini's flow from one Sutra to the 
next in this way has resulted in no one calculating Dasas correctly! But now you know... 

Don't ever make anything up with Jaimini, it's all right there in a perfectly organized 
encrypted and hidden fashion. Don't change it, don't fantasize, rather contemplate until the clear 
vision of Jaimini becomes your own vision and then laugh at yourself when the meaning of the 
Sutras becomes so obvious. It's a joyful way to learn and its only for those who study for the love 
of learning, for the true Brahmin minded who prize the path of knowledge above else. It's not for 
the Rajasic astrologer who wants to be able to predict the future - that astrologer will never 
achieve the clarity of insight required to understand Jaimini Sutras. That astrologer will have to 
learn from someone with some mastery in Jaimini astrology. 


Now onto the astrology - just what type of astrology can we learn from studying Jaimini 
Sutras? The gist of Jaimini Sutras revolves around step-by-step techniques that reveal just what 
your life will consist of. What things will you have and how great will those things be? What 
will you be? How will you learn and develop spiritually? Will you be famous, wealthy, healthy 
or sick, a great person, married with children and if yes, how many children? All the big things 
in life that you may or may not have, be or not be are what Jaimini teaches. And then he teaches 
how to see when we will die. His is the astrology of birth and death, that what we are born with 
and born to have and when we will have those things, and also when will things, including our 
own body, die. For all the little details of what happens to those things, the nicks and bruises, the 
kisses and hugs, use Parashara astrology. But to see the big things that your life consists of, you 
need Jaimini, no one else teaches it nearly as well. To see who you really are in this world, not in 
a psychological sense, but in a sense of, "You will be an astrologer and a philosopher who will 
write books, have three children including twins by a skillful wife from another country in the 
first part of your life, you will be a Vishnu devotee and a Kavi skilled at seeing meaning where 
none is apparent and love snakes and though peaceful and diplomatic you will be skilled with a 
sword. You will live until... after having painful breaks in life and acquiring prosperity and a 
multi storied house built out of wood upon a plot of land which you will farm for food." Yes, that 


164 


AstrologyKRS 


is me and its all shown by Jaimini. If you want to know who you are, your role in this world and 
your capacity for joy and knowledge, you have to turn to Jaimini. 


All that is to be found in Jaimini's Sutras and its all encrypted. In fact, Jaimini uses a 
numerical system of turning letters into numbers any time that he is referring to a house or a 
Rasi. This is his encryption method. The numerical system is a well known system, what you 
don't know is exaclty what letters in the Sutra he wants you to decrypt and which ones he wants 
you to leave alone. But the rules for figuring out the right are covered in the first section and no 
deviation from these rules can be made. If you can't make sense of a Sutra without deviating 
from the rules in the first section, then you still need more contemplation and clarity. You can 
imagine what would happen if you were the head of the CIA and you sent an encrypted email to 
one of your spies in Iran if he were to decrypt your message without follow the decryption 
method exac/ty? Well that is what has happened with Jaimini commentaries. 


The method of Jaimini writing his Sutras requires intense study, it just takes a long time. As a 
result, no astrologer has come to understand even a small fraction of Jaimini correctly. The most 
important chapter is the first which deals with who you are both materially and spiritually, 
wealth, success and power, and family relations. I spent about 5 years of devoted study before I 
came to understand the entirety of the first chapter - it's the easy chapter! During that time I also 
studied a lot of the other chapters as well. The second chapter of Jaimini deals with longevity and 
Dasas. The longevity is extremely tricky - no one has got much of that right. The Dasas are 
tricky, most astrologers calculate those out completely wrong as per the Sutras I mentioned 
above, but they are actually pretty simple if a person remembers everything that Jaimini says in 
his intro chapter, but one slip in that intro, and all the Dasa calculations come tumbling down. 
The last two chapters are the least importan,t though the most difficult as there is a lot of 
corruption in those two chapters and it will take years of dedicated study before any astrologer 
understands all that is found in those two chapters. The point I am making is that Jaimini 
astrology is a work in progress, just as he intended it to be, because us astrologers, we are also 
works in progress and Jaimini is only going to award us with an awesome technique if we have 
progressed in knowledge and insight. Jaimini is not training parrots, he is training beings with 
untold capacity for wisdom. If you want to learn from Jaimini, learn Sanskrit and get ready for a 
lifetime of intense study. If you want to learn what someone else has learned from Jaimini, find 
them and start learning but realize, that just as they are a work in progress, their unstanding of 
Jaimini is a work in progress, no matter who they are, myself included, and so it really won't be 
Jaimini, not in full. 


165 


AstrologyKR 


The House Master: Deepak Bisaria 


About the Second and The Third House 


Deepak Bisaria 


166 


AstrologyKRS 


Are Money Spinners the final Winners? 


What was infancy is childhood today and the childhood of yesterday is perhaps the adulthood of 
today. 


How soon does a child get attracted to what others have but he doesn't? The fascination for 
goodies and the sense of the having or not comes faster to him now, perhaps than ever before, for 
he watches TV from birth and possibly registers the sounds of mobiles and advertising jingles in 
his mother's womb. Earlier, it was a gradual process to the 2nd house stage, governing wealth 
and possessions, from the Ist house, representing physique and initial period of life in a 
horoscope. But no longer. The 2nd house, among many areas, importantly governs wealth, the 
fascination for which perhaps is now activating a child sooner than ever before. 


In earlier times, people reached the phase of fascination for wealth only when 
exposed to youthful pastimes like the cinema. In pre-independence decades, it was perhaps in 
early youth. We are assaulted with advertising images of goods to be desired from childhood 
now. We perhaps need to redefine and re-age infancy and childhood. 


The stories of rags to riches, pauper to prince and treasure hunts were always 
popular - be it in the present day idiot box or the books, Hollywood and Bollywood of earlier 
eras. 


The gold always shines to stimulate greed : It is not only for the big and huge haul 
that the 2nd house of wealth is seen, but for the buffer for difficult times when it comes to the 
aam admi. A need for security prompts one to accumulate for the rainy day. The desire to 
acquire, seen from the 2nd house, is a basic instinct, natural and human. Astrologically speaking, 
the 2nd house is the artha house. It is to be seen for the accumulated wealth of the individual. 
Third, the following house, besides many attributes is a kaam house and therefore gives an idea 
of the level of desire in an individual to attain more than what is essential. A peep into others 
wealth and possessions and the longing to get them also comes from here. The third is also the 
house of neighbors and neighborhood. 


The desperation for wealth and impatience to acquire at life’s cost is ancient 
and still holds good : The lessons on greed with the story of the hen that laid the golden eggs 
relates to the 2nd and the bhavat bhavam of it, the 3rd house; or the similar story of the man who 
was offered to mark the area from sunrise to sunset in exchange of gift of that area of land to 
him, but his greed made him overestimate his strength and he started to run from sunrise to mark 
acres and acres of land for himself but before the sunset died of exhaustion in the land which was 
to be his. Finally, he could get only 6x4 feet for his coffin. 


The British came with greed for money but they say it was the spirit of adventure 
that led them. Both the spirit of adventure and greed are seen from the 3rd house which is bhavat 
bhavam of the 2nd house. 


Family and Death surround Wealth. Is Wealth Death inviting? 


As per Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, the second house governs wealth, grains 
family, death, enemies, metals, precious stones. In primitive times the grains and wood was 
accumulated as a reserve collection. This collection perhaps started to be called treasure with the 
addition of gems, precious stones, gold and other valuables to it. Going by astrology, the worldly 
acquisitions and possessions to man are his closest. Even closer than his siblings, therefore, 


167 


AstrologyKRS 


wealth is assigned the 2nd house and siblings the 3rd. The 2nd house is the house of death also. 
Wealth attaches with it the tension and responsibility to secure it. The pirates, thief, burglars and 
dacoits, who had an eye on others' wealth were there from time immemorial. They threatened the 
wealthy. The killing for wealth was common. Linked to wealth is kutumb the family- earlier the 
joint family and today the nucleus family. The accumulated wealth of the family kept the joint 
family secured and united . It is said wealth always remains a tension whether you have it or not. 
If you have it, the tension is to secure it from thieves and tax authorities and if you do not have it, 
the tension is to get it somehow for survival. It is better for health to remain unconcerned about 
your wealth as the concern makes one greedy and brings him nearer to death. One should be a 
Gyani (knowledgeable) to understand the trap of wealth and a Dani (charitable) to come out of 
the trap. 


Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite was of the view that his wealth would spoil 
his children. He, therefore, instituted the Nobel Prize by depositing his huge wealth for the good 
of the humanity. . 


Classics on 2nd house matters : Sarvarth Chintmani: The following should be 
studied from the 2nd house- Those who are dependent on the person, face, mouth, speech, the 
right eye , accumulated wealth, education eating servants and friends. Phaldeepika: Vitta 
(wealth) Vidya (Learning) Swa Annapana (riches, food and drinks), Bhukti (eating), Asya (the 
right eye, face) Patrika (letter or document) Vak (Speech) and Kutumbh ( Family) 


The 2nd house also indicates the mission of life: Stationed in between the Ist that 
represents the self and the third which indicate the desire and self-effort, the 2nd with its 
neighborhood influence, becomes the house for consolidation and from there emerges a road 
map for the self which we call the mission of life. 


The 2nd house is the house of niyama or the house of ethical conduct. Malefics 
in it show either no mission or deceipt in the guise of pretension of a mission Dhanashe paap 
samyukte dhane paapsamanvite (Shloka 13 page 49). 


If the second lord is conjunct with malefics and if the second house has malefics 
such a person indulges in backbiting, is a liar, and becomes patient of vaat roga.Then apply the 
repeatedly the following shloka from Parashara(pg65 Sitaram Jha) Dashame paap smayukte 
Labhe Paapsamanvite Dushkitim labhate Martyuh swajanaanam vidushakahindulges. If there are 
malefics in the 10th house and 11th house the person indulges deeds and becomes hostile to even 
his kith and kin. If the 10th lord is debilitated. If there is a malefic in the 10th house, If there is 
malefic in the 10th from the 10th , there is the performance of lowly deeds Variation of these 
combinations are many. The significant points being stressed are: a) If the 10th lord is debilitated 
b) If there is a malefic in the 10th house c) If there is malefic in the 10th from the 10th , there is 
the performance of lowly deeds. 


The 10th lord should not be debilitated The lord should not be associated with 
malefics.The concept of a mission may differ from nation to nation but, in one word, it can be 
defined as the determination. Adishankaracharya or Vivekanand toured all over India and fulfil 
their mission. 


How much wealth is there in your destiny? 


168 


AstrologyKRS 


Mars-Moon conjunction : Phaldeepika opines that the person with this combination will be a 
dealer in hammer, ploughs, similar instruments, and earthen pots. He will be disobedient to his 
mother. Saravali is of the view that the person will be valorous, brave in war, be a boxer, will 
suffer bloody imbalances or diseases, will manufacture articles of mud, skin and minerals and 
will be an artisan and a metallurgist. Jatakabharana bereft of conduct, mean-minded, valorous, 
businessman, belligerent, inimical to mother and sick. This combination has been found in 
industrialists, traders and entrepreneurs who have generated wealth, are enterprising and 
unscrupulous. All these attributes are required to be successful in today's business. Depending on 
other influences, the presence of Moon in the signs of Mars or Mars in the sign of Moon and the 
influences through aspect also has been found to be giving entrepreneurship. The positive or 
negative impact with respect to the character and mindset of the person should be judged after 
taking into account the dusthana, trishadhaya or the kendra -trikona influence on this 
combination. 


Jupiter-Rahu or Jupiter-Ketu : Guru Chandaal Yoga: Guru is Jupiter and chandaal is Rahu. 
This combination has also been found in successful businessmen. This also makes one 
unscrupulous and may give a tinge of megalomania- a psycho- pathological condition 
characterized by delusional fantasies of wealth, power, or omnipotence. An obsession with 
grandiose or extravagant things or actions. Ram Kishan Dalmia, the famous industrialist had this 
yoga strong in the 11th house. During the dasha of Rahu-Rahu he contemplated the idea of 
forming a world government with him at the helm and all toured all across the globe for the 
purpose. He had five marriages during this dasha. Jawaharlal Nehru also displayed such 
tendencies by advocating socialism and non-alignment and promoting a dynasty. 


Speculation and Gambling : Quick money 


Windfalls through lotteries, horse race betting and other ways of gambling has 
attracted man from time immemorial. We have the example of the wise with uncontrollable 
gambling instincts in Yudhister that made him loose his kingdom and the wife of five brothers, 
Draupadi. We have stories of fluctuating fortunes and ruin caused by alcohol and gambling in 
casinos all across the globe. The latest version is the 20-20 cricket format with IPL dominating it 
to provide cricket crazy gamblers a platform with their favorite glass of whisky, beer or wine. 
Heavy stakes are involved in a three hour gambling tamasha called 20-20 cricket. 


How to judge gambling tendencies from a horoscope 


The 3rd from the 3rd is the 5th house. Being bhavat bhavam it is the house to be 
seen for knowing the speculative and gambling tendencies in an individual. It is the house of 
emotions and sentiments and should include the uncontrolled ones also. It has the qualities of the 
3rd the kaam and the 9th house of bhagya (fortune) as it is bhavat bhavam for both these houses. 
Since it is the opposite to the 11th house the potential fructification of the promise of the 11th 
house (one's income and gains ) can also be seen from the 5th house. The houses 1, 2, 5, 9 and 11 
in a horoscope are seen to assess the potential to create wealth the type of which and the method 
of acquisition is revealed by the nature of planets and their associations in a horoscope. 


What Caused The Global Meltdown? Clearly, the collective greed of the 
individuals and the nations. "Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's need, but not every 
man's greed"- Mahatma Gandhi. 


How did we get infected by Greed 


169 


AstrologyKRS 


Call greed the desire to have what the neighbors have but you do not. Call it the 
craving for habit forming drugs, tobacco, drinks or food. Define it as luxuries that turn into 
necessities like a limousine instead of a small car or travel by business class instead economy. 
No doubt, one can justify the modern lifestyle without calling himself greedy. Greed gets into 
you without your knowing. 


Greed can't do any Good : One can define it as the motivation that leads to 
success. It can also be described as the stimulus that drives you to achieve. It is alright so far as 
you do not forget that it is your hard work and slog that makes you afford the needs you get 
habituated to by the marketers. If today you want to relax your body and mind and give time to 
your family you cannot as you have a tight budget and the organization you are working for has a 
budget with a tight schedule where only performance matters. You cannot shed your habits 
because they have become necessities from luxuries. One could, without realizing, get motivated 
to work hard to raise the credit in his bank account or boost his ego. Is getting into a fast track 
with money and achievements of any consequence? We have heard many cases of successful 
executives and achievers who burnt the mid night oil for success but their health failed and they 
died early or started to suffer from a chronic disease earlier than normal. Question yourself and 
decide. Gandhiji perhaps wanted you to limit your greed for the good of humanity, the nation and 
the society and most importantly for yourself. Had all of us followed Gandhi, nations included 
we would not have had the melt down. 


Paper vs. Plastic: Today one can carry a million in his purse without the fear of loosing it. The 
modern money lenders, the banks load you with money and equip you to secure it through the 
plastic credit card. The marketers tempt you to spend beyond your needs. Efficient recovery 
agents handle the shaky and recover the principal with interest without fail. One is drawn to the 
unnecessary and the non- essentials subconsciously. It is widely believed the global melt down 
was caused due to overspending beyond their means by the individuals and nations. European 
Union and the IMF have given $1 trillion (45 lakh crore) bail out package to Greece this month. 
The package, almost is the size of India 's GDP. It will just be able to save a collapse of Greece 
and the euro presumably. 


The mother of all evil is speculation says Gordon Gekko- the biggest gambler. 


Can astrology catch the Stock Market: From euphoria to dejection and from 
dejection to euphoria. Stock market is like roller- coaster The Wall street never sleeps as there is 
one sensex or the other always clicking across the globe. A rap or rumor anywhere, send ripples 
to D-Street. Investors keep their finger crossed as uncertainty returns to haunt without a hint. 
Recently, euro break-up talks sent shock waves across all the stock streets. The stock market 
perhaps can be caught by astrological analysis of related houses of the horoscope of a nation. 
Earning from stocks can be predicted to an individual from his horoscope. If we work on 50 
authentic horoscopes of the people who have stakes in a particular stock market, we can perhaps 
catch the pulse of the market. Like longevity, it seems God did not want the astrologers to 
predict the stock market. Stock are perhaps destined to remain as shaky as life. 


The economy of a country is like a patient to an economist: The economist, like a 
doctor, starts with the diagnosis. It is no accident but a result of a well thought out treatment 
plan, think both the doctor and the economist. But they both have to admit, at times, that every 
patient and every situation does not react the same way to? doses as they have their own 
individuality. The world markets faced turbulence in the wake of euro-zone crisis that seems to 


170 


AstrologyKRS 


threaten a fragile economic recovery. Shares, commodities and crude oil crashed as the euphoria 
over the $1-trillion bailout plans for debt-laden European nations gave way to concern about 
their abilities to keep promises on fiscal prudence and survival of the euro. It is the north vs the 
south in Europe . 


Agenda of Jupiter, Saturn and Mars Portend eventful times ahead 


On Sunday, the 2nd May at 8.07 a.m. Jupiter changed its sign to Pisces. It had 
moved into Aquarius on 19th December, 2009 .On Ist November,2010 it goes back to Aquarius 
anavakra and on 6th December, 2010 again it enters Pisces. There positioning appears to 
bringing us to some major events. 


Saturn and Jupiter oppose each other in Virgo and Pisces: In 1990 when Saturn 
and Jupiter opposed each other in Capricorn and Cancer, major changes of total collapse of 
communism in Europe and in Russia were witnessed. During the opposition of these two major 
planets, the United States fought the Iraq war after the recession of the eighties. An year after 
that, Bill Clinton rode the economic and IT boom which spread all over the world. A new form 
of capitalism came into the world system. 


The capitalism in its present form is encouraging individual avarice and, therefore, 
cannot survive. It has caused world-wide recession and brought down great economic disaster in 
south Europe and other countries. The present turmoil is giving way to a future system which is 
going to be a unique and rare one and will be something in between communism and capitalism. 
This change would come about while Jupiter opposes Saturn and India will greatly benefit due to 
its dasha of Sun. 


The Magical third house! Will it make your dreams come true? This letter will take 
you to myriad areas that the third house governs:- sibling support, colleague intrigue, 3 G 
mobiles, sports, music, dance and goals of life. Debate them. Apply on yourself the fundamental 
searching question that this letter raises. Do you, at all, need to bother about the yearnings that 
the third house governs? 


Do you have a goal for yourself? Think deeply! Our shastras guide us to believe 
that the focus on liquidation of one's karmas best serves the purpose of life. Salvation-moksha 
has been described as a better state of existence than life. What then do you need to do if you opt 
for moksha as your life goal? Nothing! 


Why should you not even strive? Many things become unnecessary when you set 
moksha as your goal. No scintillating action is called for. No sharp and witty reactions that brand 
you as worldly wise. No need to prepare for the hurdle race to cruise ahead of others for early 
success. No need to practice for sharper edges that get you into 20-20 cricket or similar careers 
where fierce competition holds the key to money, fame and glamour. 


Literally a Mad Rush! Everyone seems to be in a hurry and rushes to compete in 
Kaliyuga. To get the crucial edge, desperate journalists manufacture headlines day in and day out 
that are more eye catching than that of competitors. The banner headlines in newspapers and 
channels therefore like hats come in a variety of sizes and shapes. The focus of TRP hungry TV 
channels and target driven newspaper management's is to sensationalize and to attract eyeballs to 
advertisements. The photographers chasing Diana, while trying to click a picture that could win 


171 


AstrologyKRS 


them accolades, caused her accidental death. All this is done to either sustain the organization the 
individual works in or for the individual to make an extra buck. In any case, the rush mad. 


Today, every business dreams to be the first one to reach the pockets of the 
customers lest they spend in preference of something else. Marketing models dream to open 
flood gates for their products for the flow could spin millions. Many such marketing models have 
worked. The assertive marketers did it with Maggie Noodles. Their deep impact ads and clever 
follow up on the retail floor changed the eating habits of children. The demand for noodles grew 
a million times, never mind the impact on health. In this competitive world, one who runs the 
fastest is the winner. The means do not matter, what matters is how close are you from your 
targeted achievements. The stampede to acquire worldly possessions and karmas to grease the 
ego and sensuality leaves a huge debit in the karma account. When you have moksha as your 
goal, you would shed the desire to become an achiever. The realization will come that there is 
no need to indulge in desires for finally they don't matter.. 


How well are you handling your life? Do you need to balance it? Can astrology 
Guide you to a better outlook? How relevant are 3,6,7 and 1 lhouses? 


Classics on 3rd house: According to the astrological classic Brihat Parashara Hora 
Shastra:- Prakaram (valour), servant, brother updesh (initiary instructions) yatra (travel) mata 
pita ka maran (death of parents) are matters governed by the 3rd house. Phaldeepika gives the 
subjects allotted to the third house as asschikya, Uras (breast), the right ear, army, valour, 
prowess and brother. Satya-Jatakam -brothers, courage, bravery, fear, voice, ear, fruits, father's 
death, strength dress, mental stability and firmness. Sarvarth Chintaman:- ibrothers, 
valour,medicine,friends, throat, chest, education, right ear, eatables and planets Maansaagari:- 
Sahodar (Siblings),nauker ( servant), prarkaram valour udham self-effort Brihat Jatak sahotha 
(brothers) vikram (bravery). 


The centuries don't change your destiny but the interpretation changes; With 
the changes in Desh Kaal and Paatra the area that a house of a horoscope governs is widening. 
Each house has in it meanings and interpretations embedded for every situation in changing 
times, even for the centuries that have yet to arrive. We astrologers have to dig out and keep 
broad basing house matters with ever growing developments in lifestyles and career profiles. In 
the present context, numerous cases of success were found when the third lord or the third house 
related dashas were operative. The 3rd house is seen as one among the trishadhaya houses 
(3,6,11) whose dashas have not been considered good as they call for immense hard work for 
thriving well. Also being 7th from the 9th house of father and 12th from the 4th house of 
mother, its dasha has been found impacting the longevity of the parents adversely. Moreover, the 
fact that it is the bhavat bhavam of 8th house (being 8th from 8th) does no good for the stigma 
attached to it. When we relate these dashas with conventional view categorizing the 3rd house 
and third lord inter alia as a small trik, a new meaning emerges. As per classics the third lord 
going to any house spoils the signification of that house but Lagna lord is good in the 3rd house 
and the 3rd lord going to lagna is also good for the lagna and the 3rd house; but it is not good 
for the 3rd house when it goes to the 6,8 or 12. 


Sports and the 3rd house: Sportsmen have to have the extra special cutting edge to 
be winners. Such specials are seen from the 3rd house. The 3rd house also signifies the shoulder, 
the strength of which is central to any sport. It has been observed that malefics in the 3rd house 
provide the competitive edge, though they do not prove friendly to the siblings. Virender Sehwag 


172 


AstrologyKRS 


has the 3rd lord in 3rd with 3 other planets placed there. Clearly, a strong third house classifies 
his horoscope as a third house focused horoscope. Horoscopes of many sportsmen have a similar 
configuration. A strong third house with malefics makes a third house sports oriented. The larger 
purpose of such debate, is to dispel fear about the 3rd house. It has to be established that the 3rd 
house has a unique quality of insurmountable success through self effort, more so in the field of 
extra-curricular activities. 


Sangeet (music) and the 3rd house: According to Rishi Satyacharya, the 3rd house 
governs talent and the Sth house education. If one has a strong 3rd house and a weak 5th house, 
one may the talent but not a good education. In the horoscope of Lata Mangeshkar, the 
nightingale of India, the 3rd lord, Moon is in 3rd and the 5th lord Mercury is is in the 5th making 
the third house of talent doubly strong as also education. Legendary Rukmini Arundale, the 
queen of Bharat Natyam also has her 3rd lord in 3rd aspected by Mercury, Venus and Saturn 
from the 9th and Jupiter from the 11th. She played a major role in bringing Bharat Natyam from 
the fold of Devadasis and in reviving it by making it a honourable profession. Today when 
people in the south send their daughters to learn Bharat Natyan, they should not forget that their 
great grandfathers or their fathers pelted stones at Rukmini Arundale for reviving this art. In case 
of K.L. Sehgal the Moon is again in the 3rd house. It has the aspect of the 3rd lord Mars which is 
in its own rashi with Mercury in the 8th house-the house of hidden talent. The 3rd house is also 
aspected by Jupiter from the 7th house in the horoscope of K.L.Sehgal. According to 
Mr.K.N.Rao, the 3rd house being the house of sports also, malefics here give sports like cricket 
and hockey, where strength is required and benefics give sports like Tennis where there the 
artistic touch and glamour. He often explains the horoscope of Federer to convey his point. 
Federer has the Moon in the 3rd and the third lord Venus is in the Lagna 


3rd house primarily indicates siblings: It also shows your capacity to shoulder 
responsibility and indicates the people who could shoulder part of your responsibility. The will, 
grit, valour and the stamina of the individual can also be seen from here. The support one can 
expect from people close- siblings or co-workers can also be seen from the 3rd house. The 3rd 
shows the younger co-borns and subordinates and the 11th should therefore show the elder co- 
born and senior colleagues. The 11th from 11th is the 9th which is the house of the Guru and 
father whose role in guiding a destiny remains unchallenged. The crucial guidance and moral 
support comes from the 9th which is the 7th from the 3rd. - the house of fructification for the 
3rd. Hence the importance of a Guru. 


The third house and drekana pointers. Present day astrology especially in 
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan under the able guidance of Mr. K.N. Rao has developed a mechanism to 
rectify the time of birth. Role of the 3rd house to determine the number of co-borns is 
extensively applied and this application has been consistently correcting the time of birth. 


Third house and self-effort. Mars placed in the third house has been found to be 
harming co-borns but has a positive influence so far as self-effort, courage and valour is 
concerned. The aspect of Mars on 3rd house helps both co-borns and self-effort. Repeated 
application helps us to understand the influence of karka on a bhava with aspect or on 
placement. The placement of karka in a bhava except for Saturn in 8th has been found having a 
negative influence but its aspect has always been found positive. 


Art of purposeful living is nothing but skilful management of energies that 
drive destiny : Like all Planets the houses too have their allotted negatives and positives. The 


173 


AstrologyKRS 


association of upachaya 3 and 11 houses with each other or with the 10th have been found 
giving unprecedented rise to a person on the material plane. If the 6th ,another upachaya house 
has Rahu or a malefic, they give phenomenal rise to the person in their dashas but also give 
disease and disputes along with it. The 7th house though a maraka is the house of pada praapti 
(rise in life) Since 3, 7 and 11 houses are kama trikonas(desires), they inspire and motivate a 
person to achieve but become obstructive for a person who has set moksha as his goal. Since the 
3rd house is right opposite the 9th house of dharma, the potential fructification of the promise of 
the 9th house (one's bhagya) can also be seen from here. The spiritual pursuits, the intent & 
mental inclinations can be seen from the 3rd house. The 3rd house unfolds the potential in a 
horoscope for worldly progress as also for converting those extra efforts for spiritual progress. 
An individual's capabilities, talent, intent and effort all come from the 3rd house. 


Communication the life line: According to Maharishi Parashara the 3rd house 
governs updesh (initiatory instructions). Satya Jatakam too assigns voice to the 3rd house. Being 
the 2nd from the 2nd , as per Parashari principle of bhavat bhavam it should govern all the 
matters of the 2nd house also which include vani (speech).The third gives an idea of an 
individual's communication skills, so important in today's career. Since it is the interface 
between organization and the client which decides the success or failure of a business, the role 
of the 3rd house in the coming times with the introduction of 3G technology and the coming 4G 
would prevail in the foreseeable future could be revolutionary. In the Indian context the dasha of 
the 4th lord Sun in the 3rd house of the Independence horoscope and its likely impact on our 
country's bhagya in the dasha of Sun and will give an opportunity to communicate our view 
point as a nation more effectively than ever before. 


Dharma and Adharma How you present and push matters in today's world is what 
matters and this is also what the 3rd house reveals. The 3,7 and 11 combine to inspire and 
motivate to achieve and the 6th provides the ability to compete. People who bring a turnaround 
in a languishing giant to make it a fast moving company show a zeal represented by the 3rd 
house and a 3,6, 7 and 11 dominated horoscope. Ruthless go-getting attitude, grit and trouble- 
shooting behavior can bring success in management in today's world. Not straightforward 
judgments and actions. These are not the houses of straightforward actions and routine. But, if 
one has set moksha as his goal these houses are rendered useless. The house 4, 5, 9 and 10 gain 
prominence then for the activity that credit your karma account and not the 3, 6, 7 and 11. 


Life starts with dharma represented by the first house. The 2nd motivates us to 
consolidate and secure ourselves. The third brings desires in us and after exhaustion of desires it 
has to moksha represented by the 4th house Many of us are too late and miss the bus. 


About The Seventh House 


With a cocktail of Love, Passion and Death, can 7 always be lucky? 


Next to the 10th, the house of karmas, the 7th is the most challenging house in 
today’s context. Here’s why. Our basic instincts and sensuality attract us to many opposites, 
including, most importantly, the opposite sex. This natural stirring of love and passion, brings 
joy, often changes lives in fundamental ways. 


174 


AstrologyKRS 


Unlike other changes in life’s pattern, the seventh activates several sensitive chords, 
making this change intense at the emotional level. Passion and rage define the narratives of 
couplings like those of Romeo and Juliet, Heer Ranjah, Soni — Mehiwal, Laila and Manju. These 
are instances from time immemorial of fiery passions and shooting desires that drive one to kill 
or get killed in love. We have the story of destruction of a thousand ships in the quest of Helen of 
Troy in Greek literature. Our Ramayana and Mahabharata too revolve around the wrongful 
passion for women and its catastrophic outcome. These epics from our Puranas compel us to 
review our own basic instincts that often excite us to break barriers in love and passion. These 
stories, in a subtle way perhaps lead us to exercise discretion against a wave of overpowering 
emotion. 


With love laid bare, can greed be far behind? 


So in today’s world a quick buck can be made from those runaway passions, the 
profiteers can profit from love. Why should not they leave a known human weakness 
unexploited -Viagra had to come for men and now for women. The market also includes those 
whose sex life is or has been rich. 


Pillars: Houses 1-4-7-10 


You have love, hate, passion, jealousy, anxiety, and tension along with a number of 
manias, phobias and other psychiatric conditions and even death attached to the 7th house. 
Balancing our karmas has become more challenging than ever before today in the wake of 
distractions that are difficult to resist due to a degrading morality outpacing inner strength that 
checks. The 7th is the house of desires (kaam). It is the house of death (maraka). Being 10th 
from 10th it is bhavat bhavam of our karmas also. According to the principle of bhavat bhavam 
what we see from the 4th house is also seen from 4th from 4th the 7th house and what we see 
from the 10h is also seen from the 10th from 10th the 7th house. In the workshop on Home and 
property on 25th September, 2010 on the lighter side, I commented that from 4th you see the 
sapno ka mahal (the palace of your dreams) and from 7th you see sapno ki mahila (woman of 
your dreams). Both give illusions of happiness but often result in unhappiness. The 1-4-7-10 
houses are the pillars of a horoscope that hold life. 


Lagna is the most important house that represents self, the 4th happiness and 
contentment, the 10th action or karmas and the 7th, the desires, the motivations and the 
inspiration that vibrates and propels you to act. It falls in the trikona (triangle) of kaam (desires). 
It can be called the house of Dreams, Desire and Death. When swayed by desires, the discretion 
is lost. 


In ashtanga yoga the 7th is the house of dhyana (concentration), Concentration amidst 
diversion. 


The 7th house not only attracts us to the opposite sex but to many more opposites. 
The most revered classical text, Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra mentions wife, travel, trade, loss 
of sight, sex, death and the like as areas governed by the 7th house. 


Phaldeepika, another great classic recommends that all about desire, passion, sexual desire, a 
way, people, husband, road and wife should be read from the 7th house. 


Mundane astrology suggests that we see: war, foreign countries, disputes, international affairs, 
marriage and divorce from this house. 


Partnering could mean sleeping with the Enemy 


175 


AstrologyKRS 


A marriage partner or a business partner could be an adversary we opt to live and 
work with. We invite them to our fold as they appear to be desirable companions. One for 
fulfilling our needs in our Grihastha ashram and other to amplify our energy for rapid growth to 
realize our dreams for acquisitions and success as | and 1 make 11 not 2. We hate and love 
them! 


Often, inspite of disputes and knowing well that they have turned out to be our 
adversaries, we do not part, for we need them. One may part with the business partner swiftly, 
whenever the bond cracks severely but with the spouse one cannot part so easily even after a 
dispute, since the legal, societal, moral and karmic bindings are strong. Once a partner is chosen, 
it is a karmic binding for life. Our shastras have therefore rules defined for the commitments 
with the opposite sex what we now know as marriage. With common law marriage, live-in — 
relationships, gay marriages gaining acceptance and recognition from law, it’s time we review 
the institution of the traditional marriage with cultural, social, moral and karmic bindings. 


Are marriages made in a heaven or do we have a choice? 


The karma theory cites rinanubandhan ((debt of past lives) as a probable reason for 
choice of people who surround us. Does the divine power that plots our destiny decide our 
partner before our birth? If so, why bother with Kundli milaan (matching of horoscopes). We 
have seventy five percent destiny that cannot be changed and twenty five percent freewill that 
minimizes or maximizes the impact of the fixed destiny through good and bad karmas. To say 
that a partner in marriage is fixed and the effort in choosing one is an exercise that is futile, 
therefore in my view is wrong. 


Can we have a fairy tale love? A reality check. How do we characterize modern marriage? 


Are two people satisfied in their relationship? Can we term earlier marriages in a 
male dominated society successful, since they lasted, in most cases till death did them part. Do 
we ignore the fact that there was no scope for a woman to assert her rights freely and dispute 
unjustified actions as she was economically dependent? Can we term those marriages also 
successful where a man married another woman inspite of a devoted wife because both 
marriages lasted lifelong? Can you have the concept of happy marriage of a literate to a semi- 
educated woman, who may have devoted herself to rearing children and attending household 
chores, blissfully unaware of her potential and devoid of aspirations? But, for understanding 
what is happiness and unhappiness is we have go back to our shastras. When you have 
expectations, you have unhappiness. 


Shloka 62 of Bhagavad Gita Chapter 2 


"dhyayatah visayan pumsah sangas tesupajayate sangat sanjayate kamah krodha 
bhijayate" 


While contemplating the objects of senses, a person develops attachment for them, and from 
such attachment, lust develops, and from lust anger arises. 


Shloka 63 


"Krodhad bhavati sammohah ammoohat smrti-vibhramah smrti-braramsad buddhi -naso 
buddhi-nasat pranasyati" 


From anger, complete delusion arises, and from delusion bewilderment, intelligence is lost, and 
when intelligence is lost one falls down again into the material pool. 


176 


AstrologyKRS 


If you view everything you have as god -gifted and destiny- sent including marriage 
and do not hope for or expect anything, you have contentment. A differentiation of an unhappy, 
not so happy or happy marriage is much too subjective a concept to be assessed objectively. 
Where there has been death of partner, divorce, separation or no marriage, it is clearly a 
weakness in the 7th house and can be assessed by evaluating the 7th house, the significator 
Venus and the divisional chart navamsha. A working methodology for such an evaluation has 
been explained in my book Indian Marriage in Modern Urban Educated Society. 


One who has contentment and happiness in what destiny has bestowed will be happy 
in marriage and one who has not will not be happy even with all that life can offer. 


Bhagavad Gita Chapter 12 Shloka 14 


‘asman nodvijate loko lokan nodvijate ca yah harsamarsa bhayoodvegair mukto 
yah sa ca me priyah" 


He by whom no one is put to difficulty and who is not disturbed by anyone, who is equipoised in 
happiness and distress, fear and anxiety, is very dear to Me 


Does Mars or a malefic in 7th indicate problems in marriage: The classics, the Vishvijay 
panchang and even some present interpretations of classics, are frightening. 


Most of the classics talk of death of spouse if Mars is in the 7th. This was when there 
was no concept of divorce and when societal compulsions did allow a woman to live 
independently. In today’s context, Mars in 7th could mean divorce, separation or simply some 
minor irritations in marriage. It is important to evaluate the positives as well. 


The educational qualifications and the multi dimensional character of women which 
has come to the foreground of the national scene cannot be ignored in assessing the quality and 
even the standard of unorthodoxy in marriage. Much modern research has been undertaken in 
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, where it has been clearly shown that the planets in the 7th house 
have totally new meanings for example a woman with Mars in the 7th house can have an 
engineer, policeman or an army man as her husband. Similarly Ketu in the 7th can give a 
spiritually minded husband. 


A woman from Tamil Nadu, who learnt astrology from Mr.K.N.Rao, has Kumbha 
Lagna with Rahu in the 7th aspected by Jupiter from Sagittarius. She was given many negative 
predictions by several astrologers but Mr. Rao assured her that she would have an excellent 
orthodox marriage because of her Sun, the 7th lord being in the 4th house with Mercury. Her 
husband is very well placed in his career as a chartered accountant. 


Such modern interpretations will have to be put, departing from the literal and 
narrow translation given by some writers in translating the classical text. Most of the 
astrologers are sticking to the literal meaning given in Phaldeepika which is doing damage 
to astrology. 


Similarly in another horoscope of an Andhra Brahmin woman having Taurus, Lagna 
has Sun Ketu and Mercury in the 7th. Her Rahu, with debilitated Moon is in the 7th and is 
aspected by Jupiter from Pisces. She has been having an extraordinary marriage since 2001. Both 


177 


AstrologyKRS 


the husband and wife happen to be doing exceptionally well professionally. Senior Bush, the 
father of George W. Bush is 87 years old. He has Mars-Ketu in the 7th house and his marriage 
with Barbara Pierce Bush since 1945 is still on. 


Vedic astrology is known for its negative readings in the West. As in India so in the 
West primarily to entice clients and earn from remedial measures. Mangal dosha is one of the 
most misused concepts by astrologers to make money and promote fear. In Bharatiya Vidya 
Bhavan we stress on the totality of a horoscope which has to have different shades of happiness 
and unhappiness, materialism and spirituality; the modern and ancient meaning. A lot of these 
ancient meanings are given in Phaldeepika but we have to modernize with new meanings. 


Mr.C.V.B.Subrahmanyam, Professor and Head, Department of Jyotisha, Telugu 
University, Hyderabad, who had taken a workshop in Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, had stated that 
Lagna refers to the self and the 7th from it relates to society. Whether we are ruled by society, or 
we tule society, can be assessed from the Sarvastakavarga point’s of the ascendant and the 7th 
house. If lagna has more points than we dominate the society and if the 7th has more than we are 
dominated by the society. Generally in Sarvastakavarga the 7th house and the 12th house should 
have less point. 


From the days of Leo Tolstoy’s Resurrection in the nineteenth century and George 
Meredith acclaimed novel Diana of the ‘Cross Ways’ released in 1885 the downtrodden women 
has been well portrayed and continues to be redefined even today. Scholars believe that in 
ancient India women enjoyed equal status with men. Through the low point of the medieval 
period, this status has been rising. 


In the Vedic and Upanishadic times the great freedom women enjoyed is described in 
»S Altekar’s book ‘The Position of Women in Hindu Civilization’. The women’s rightful place as 
a co-equal has to be recognized and accepted in the context of the swirling hanged life of our 
times. 


In today’s India a well educated woman clearly deserves better treatment. She is 
deprived f the dignity that is due to her. We are not living in Moghul times when the Hindu 
woman had to be protected from the lustful invaders. Slowly the Indian male has started to 
accept this shift in the ower balance. On the other hand we also have instances of unscrupulous 
woman taking foulest advantage of section 497 IPC and 18 of Hindu Adoption and Maintenance 
Act 1956 and Section 125 of Criminal Procedure Code and harass the husbands. How a balance 
is to be structured to put marriage on grounds of stability, dignity and harmony is the challenging 
point of research for astrologers of modern times. 


It is a challenge to produce new researches. Those who are sticking to Phaldeepika 
literally when a still finer shade is to be considered in predicting matters on the basis of the 
shlokas are committing a serious mistake. If there is a sanyas yoga which also involves the 7th 
house it mostly means a woman leading a normal married life and from second half of her 
middle age becoming spiritual after fulfilling her worldly duties. Parashara rightly gives a hint 
about it but many modern astrologers put a wrong interpretation of this combination. A malefic 


178 


AstrologyKRS 


in the 7th and any planet in the 9th is a combination that makes a woman highly spiritual. It is to 
be seen to be believed. 


A Horoscope Matching of today too requires innovative Methods 


Matching of horoscopes by merely totting up points out of 36 is woefully 
inadequate. These days the rapid computer results leave many hearts broken for no reason as the 
self styled astrologers and simplistic computer software quickly churn out matching results that 
have little astrological moorings. We have a colleague in Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan whose 
marriage has crossed 50 years. It is a beautiful and blissful marriage still with only 13 points in 
matching. 


The dosha samya matching by some astrologers does not answer the purpose of 
matching when we have highly educated women outpacing men in many fields. Shudh jatak 
matching, a part of bhava milaan is also to be viewed in modern context. An evaluation in 
totality with desh kaal and paatra is required. My half written book ‘Choosing a Partner’ is 
gathering dust. I intend making it a comprehensive book for Horoscope Matching. I am also 
updating the Chapter Selection of Spouse of my book Indian Marriage in Modern Urban 
Educated Society with the 2nd edition. 


Desire, War, Death — The 7th represents all Three 


In his presentation ‘Glimmer of Hope in a strife torn World’ during the Global 
conference on Mundane Astrology at Vishakhapatnam from 1-4 October, 2010, Mr K.N. Rao 
convincingly demonstrated through the horoscopes of many heads of states, prime ministers and 
presidents that they were engaged in war in the dasha of the lord of the 7th house, the planets in 
the 7th house or planets aspecting the 7th house. Clearly the 7th represents, the spouse, the 
society, war and also death. The classical and the researched are on the same line. 


Reflect on this: A hit on the heart or a blow to a fragile home leave many vibrations ! 
Why? This can be understood by an analysis of the 4th house that governs the heart and 
happiness. Did you know that at the end of each of the first two phases of life governed, 
respectively by the first to fourth house and the fifth to eighth, alarms ring for a lifestyle 
overhaul? These alarms gear you up for the periodical reforms. They reveal that the actions at the 
appropriate time is life’s call, perhaps its purpose. Significantly, the third phase of life (related to 
the ninth to twelfth house) does not come with much opportunity to reform. It ends, without 
forewarnings, in death either with moksha or another life attached after death. 


With Kaliyuga advancing, the purpose of life is getting more and more difficult to 
understand : Is there that undefinable thing you are always seeking but are unable to grip- 
something that you know exists but is difficult to identify? You, at times, can’t locate it though 
you know it is around. It is abstract but it is the most valuable. One way to define it is happiness. 
It lies in the security and comfort that you derive from your mother. It is also found in the feeling 
of belonging and the nostalgia for a place where your roots are- a house you can call yours, a 
room of your own. It comes in the fragrance of the surrounding where perhaps you had a happy 
childhood. It is in going back to the college campus and alumni meets. There are many places 


9 


AstrologyKRS 


where this intangible happiness hides. It is felt and is longed for unknowingly. Most of us have 
the exhilarating experience of it though the level differs. In failures it flips over to unhappiness. 
Women melt in sweet appreciation of their looks or dress and men when their ego is greased. 
This happiness is the most sought after thing. It is the least durable in a Kaliyuga destiny and 
causes sharp upswings and downward swings that affect the heart and the mind adversely. 


In a horoscope this happiness (sukh) can be assessed from the 4th house. But happiness 
comes only when there is peace and tranquility within. It cannot rest in you for long unless peace 
too resides in you. 


Does the 4th house cover all the sources of Happiness and Unhappiness- As per the 
classic Brihat Parahara Hora Shastra the 4th house covers:- Conveyance, relatives, mother, 
happiness, treasure, lands and houses, residential comfort, musical instruments, beautiful 
mansions and quadrupeds. Many more additions come to the mind when classical text is 
interpreted in modern context. 


Phaldeepika mentions house, land, maternal uncle, a sister’s son, a relation, a friend, 
conveyance, mother, kingdom, cow, buffalo, perfume, clothes, ornaments, the nadir and 
happiness as areas governed by the 4th house. 


Satya-Jatakam includes comfort, education, conveyance, heart, landed property, house. 
mother, friends, relatives, cattle and buildings under 4th house matters. 


Interestingly, with respect to the 4th house, the mother, happiness, home, comfort, relatives 
are the areas which are common and accepted by all the rishis. Since it is a crucial house and 
deeply internal, we have three karakas (significatiors) of the 4th house: Moon, Venus and 
Mercury. While Moon represents the mother and happiness, Venus is given the task of governing 
the sweet home and Mercury has relatives under its control. Mercury has this role assigned to it 
as it lords the 3rd and 6th house of the natural zodiac, the Moon lords the 4th of the natural 
zodiac and Venus the 2nd and the 7th. What emerges is that the interior planets Mercury and 
Venus are the source of happiness or unhappiness. They are the core around which life revolves. 
They are the closest to the Sun and the Moon which represent the soul and the mind. The 
Ascendant is the 10th from the 4th and clearly the focus for the 4th therefore is the 10th from it 
the Ascendant which represents the self. Such a relationship of the Ascendant with any other 
house does not exist. 


The condition of the mind at any given time can be assessed by the position of the fast 
changing Moon which waxes and wanes. It quickly turns a malefic from a benefic. Even when it 
appears old at times it can suddenly freshen and look young and new. 


In Mundane - the branch of astrology that predicts a nation’s destiny- earthquakes, weather 
conditions , political and economic projections and the like are seen from the fourth house. The 
4th house lords Land and crops, agricultural, industry, mines and minerals, landed interests, real 
estates, slum areas, hotel industry, weather conditions, landslides, forests fires, volcanic 
eruptions and mining disasters, earthquakes and floods, schools, colleges and educational 
institutions, home, land, patriotism, opposition parties, throne of the king and the like. 


180 


AstrologyKRS 


The fourth clearly controls the core of a country. This supersensitive house governs all 
that is central to a nation Agriculture is our foundation and industry our future. Natural wealth of 
minerals and wood from forest is also under its jurisdiction. 


The central portion of a horoscope houses the fourth which is also a moksha house : In 
the square of dharma-artha-kaam-moksha represented by | to 4 houses . One reaches the 4th 
house of moksha after being assigned the dharma for a specific human life governed by the Ist 
house. The next station of life’s journey is the 2nd house of artha where matters with respect to 
securing the self and the family prevail. It has under its jurisdiction the family (Auwtumbh) and 
initial education that comes from the mother and family members. It governs money. Dreams, 
actions, reactions and the rigour are in the next station, which is the 3rd house. This house is 
categorized as a Kaam house also. It governs flaming desires and aspirations which prompt 
actions. It is only after exhausting these three levels that the doors to salvation or moksha can 
open. 


Moksha at the 4th house stage is to be interpreted as an opportunity to review, change 
and reform. It is for this reason that the following house, the Sth , is the house of higher learning 
and education. The 5th is again a house of dharma where the lst phase is to reviewed and 
resolutions to reform made. It is the house of thinking, sentiments and emotions as also the house 
to be seen for accumulated karmas. The house for karma is 10th and 5th being the 8th from it 
becomes the house of death of a karma or its registration. One is required to regulate the lifestyle 
and control the thoughts to reform. One can derive from the pattern of a horoscope the potential 
to reform. 


The 2nd phase ends in the 8th from lagna which is also called the house that has the 
battlefield. This house traces the struggle and changes and is also seen for moksha. During the 
Ist phase 0-32, it the Lagna (body that rules. The Moon (Mind) holds the key during the 2nd 
phase 32-64 and thereafter the Sun (Soul) from 64 onwards. These three nodal points in a 
horoscope should be used accordingly. 


The travel of the soul from one life to another is certainly a tedious journey in life terms A 
journey perhaps at a speed unknown to man and the route perhaps God has willed not to reveal. 


The key to a meaningful life is contentment and happiness: Whether you delve deep into 
the thinking of Greek philosophers- Socrates, Plato and Aristotle or in the feelings of poets and 
philosophers all across the globe or in the messages every religion have to offer, the focus is on 
karma that benefits all to make the life happy and meaningful. 


Hindu Philosophy believes that it the karma of earlier births that decides the destiny. 
Why should a man be born blind? Why should one born in a family of king and another in the 
family of a pauper. As per Hindu philosophy you are on auto-mode. ‘As you sow you reap’ .You 
create your karmas and your karmas create your destiny. Niskaam karma is what Bhagavad Gita 
prescribes (a karma without its fruit as a consideration ) A karma out of duty and not out of 
desire. This can only lead us to contentment and happiness. 


181 


AstrologyKRS 


Home, ‘Sweet Home’ is not in everybody’s destiny: As your karmas of earlier births 
determine where you would be born, they also allocate the level of happiness which can be seen 
from the 4th house. If you have the 4th lord in 4th house or the ascendant lord is in 4th, without 
afflictions, it promises an all weather home. Such combinations also promise happiness, 
conveyances, helpful relatives and comforts. Even when the 4th lord is exalted or in its own or 
exalted Navamsha good results from the 4th house can be expected. 


Our classics mention that if the 10th lord joins the 4th lord in an angle or in a trine, the 
person will acquire beautiful mansions. The gypsies or the migratory shepherds and birds, who 
are deprived of a continuing comfort of the home, surely should be having an afflicted 4th house 
or their 4th lord in the 6th, 8th or the 12th house . 


The research available in the book Planets and Travel Abroad by M.S. Mehta explains 
the 4th house and 4th lord affliction as a combination for settlement in a foreign country, 
away from the ancestral home and relatives. In the coming centuries many people may be 
required to migrate from regions with unbearable heat due to global warming. This has to reflect 
in their 4th house. 


What type of house can you have ? 


- The Moon and Venus in the 4th give multi-storyed houses, Ketu and Mars — brick houses, 
Jupiter — a house of timber, Sun a hut of grass. 


- Exalted planets in the 4th give beautiful houses. Benefics in the 3rd and the 4th also give 
beautiful houses. 


- Saturn and Sun worry for the houses most of the time but good houses as tenants. 
- Moon in the 4th -a farm house. 
- Venus in 4th — a house with much garden. 


- Rahu in the 4th, a person deprived of a house. Ketu buys and sells farms and makes profit. 


The position of planet in the house is one determinant, though the final conclusion is to be 
drawn by processing many determinants like 4th from Karakamsha lagna, and the 4th from 
swamsha. The promise in divisional chart navamsha and chaturthamsha is also to be considered 
in evaluation while not forgetting to use at least two type of dashas. All this under a tested 
methodology to get to the correct prediction. 


The fourth as the house of Life Force : The importance of 4th house should be judged 
from the fact that our rishis have assigned Moon the significator of ‘Life force’ (praan) as 
karaka (significator) of the 4th house. 


The equation of 10th vs 4th : Karma vs Happiness is perennial. The 4th house is the house 
of fructification for the 10th and the 10th house for the 4th.The 4h house is the most internal and 
the 10th house the most external house of a horoscope. In a high stress lifestyle people tend to be 
short tempered and impatient. Globalisation have made people ambitious and restless. The 


182 


AstrologyKRS 


internal aspirations have to reflect on the karmas governed by the 10th house There will always 
be a direct relation of karma with happiness and of happiness with the karmas. 


God wanted man to live happily in his creation but the Kaliyuga Man continues to 
spoil himself and God’s creation in the quest for more: The making of earth beautiful and 
living happy has to be from the actions of the earthlings as spoiling of it is. We need to protect 
the environment, culture, heritage and morality for our own sake for we are going to be born as 
children in this earth in an advancing kaliyuga situation. Think of at least your own self if not of 
others before the greed for more captures you. 


Does every destiny follows the horoscopic pattern? Yes, indeed? But it gives you many 
opportunities to correct and reform as there is 25 percent freewill with 75 percent destiny. Do not 
miss the bus in this life. 


Your Karma may visit you one day, in another life! 


The consequences of an action that takes a few seconds to complete could impact you after 
a thousand years. Hard to swallow! But the mechanism of human action is such that the results 
could remain suspended for years and may manifest themselves after a millenium. Hence, 
whether you believe in reincarnation or not, think before you act. This debate on the moral 
consequences of our actions surely will lead us to a better understanding of our own self and of 
natural and karmic justice. 


The reaction of an action like pressing a nuclear trigger, could be lasting. But so could the 
consequence of a seemingly innocuous action, like kicking a dog. Think how many times you 
have asked yourself, “Why has this happened to me but not to others?” Be prepared for an 
explanation that cites retribution or reward for deeds in past lives that visit you today. Did you 
know that a seemingly spontaneous action also involves a long drawn process that may stretch to 
another birth! This letter debates the philosophy and the science of an action. You will be 
surprised to find how elaborate the process can be that culminates into a simple action and how 
complex the process can be that ensures every action gets justifiably rewarded-or punished. 


Is it your stars or your wit that will bring you the millions? 


We also takes you to the realm of working of the human psyche that prompts you to act. We 
now look at how the psyche is constructed and how it is structured. How to judge whether the 
psyche is blessed with more freedom or less? Or whether our thoughts surge towards being 
positive, negative, constructive, destructive, creative, aesthetic, morose, lethal or mostly happy 
? This and much more can be traced to the 5th house. The raw-material for construction of your 
psyche are your karmas and karmas alone. This is the reason why the psyche has that subtle 
difference of shade at the individual level. The insightful and interpretative analysis of the Sth 
house that holds the key to the current life’s destiny and of many more lives that are still to 
come can be explained in absolute terms. The focus here is the Sun, the 5th lord of the natural 
zodiac representing the soul. The 5th house, also known as the house of Sanchit Karmas, is 
meant to keep a record of all actions and deeds in perhaps a disk of sorts that the soul carries 
with it after death to another life. This house has your record from perhaps the times of the big 


183 


AstrologyKRS 


bang. The destiny of yet another life is carved from that record kept by the 5th house with debits 
and credits to it ona daily basis. The 5th house is the house of karma and the 11th of its reward. 
The equation of 5th and 11th carries on for thousands and thousands of years. Each house 
represents fructification for the other. 


Is Karma more than tossing coins to a pauper? 


An action that becomes a karma of consequence could be in just a gesture, a spoken word 
showing some amount of decisiveness or simply a routine act from motivational forces that tune 
the psyche. The psyche is constructed both from the karmas of earlier births which the soul 
records along with the actions of the current birth. Your conscience too has developed from such 
karmas of yours. Be it a tendency to shower snide remarks, self-praise, ridicule or to criticize 
others. In fact, for every idea that comes to your mind and for every action, there is a reason and 
logic that lurks behind. The samskaras (psyhco mental tendencies) imbibed from actions 
(karmas) of past and current births get built in your psyche. How much of tamasic, rajasik or 
satwik elements (gunas) are there in your psyche and your conscience can be assessed from an 
analysis of the 5th house of your horoscope as the 9 planets and the 12 rashis are classified as 
tamasic (laziness, irresponsibility, cheating maliciousness), rajasik are the undecided qualities 
between tamasic and satwik. Satwik guna or innate quality would mean fearlessness, pure 
heartedness, charity, self-restraint, austerity, non-violence, truthfulness, modesty and the like. A 
domination of satwik planets in the trinity of 1-5-9 houses, therefore makes you a Satwik, 
concentration of rajasik makes you a rajasik and so forth. 


Processing the Human Action : The 5th house prompts, the 9th filters and the first house 
acts. A process that takes a fraction of a second in some of your actions still follows this route. 
Your reaction to unwanted situations that you are forced into also goes through the same process. 
Therefore don’t judge people by... how they disappoint you but judge them ... by their reaction 
when you disappoint them. 


Every action is not a Karma : An action of consequence only goes to the account and not 
the routine ones.If this screening and elimination was not there the account perhaps would 
become unmanageable. Sanchita karmas are the accumulated karmas of past lives. Prarabdha: 
that portion of the accumulated karma which is allotted for the present birth. Kriyamana are the 
karma we do in the present life. Aagami are the karmas that reflects in our future births. 


Akarma and Vikarma:The Good (Akarma) and the Bad (Vikarma) . Vikarma are a) Anti- 
parental karma b) Anti-family karma and c)Anti-society karma. 


Results of these Karmas: 
a) Akarma leads to salvation. 
b) Vikarma leads to divine punishment and bondage. 


Every Psyche is peculiar : The reward of the same karma will differ based on age, desh, 
kaal and paatra considerations. Marrying 2-3 times in the permissive west will not amount to a 


184 


AstrologyKRS 


serious anti society karma as it would be in India. Not caring for parents will be lesser evil in the 
developed west, where children have not seen their parents, respect their grandparents, than in 
India where the society trains you to look after your parents. And culturally and morally it is 
considered a duty. 


Could History be different if free will was exercised judiciously? Are we puppets in the 
hand of destiny? 


History has in its record many major upheavals caused from routine reactions out of 
mistaken perceptions of those in power. Were these pre-willed by the destiny of the earth, 
nations and the individuals or did free will play a role in these actions. Can free will, postpone, 
minimize or maximize. This will remain an eternal debate. Bhagavad Gita answers it eighty 
percent. Lord Krishna tried his best to avert the Mahabharata. It was both the destiny of the 
nation as well the karmas of the high and mighty who did not agree to budge that led to the 
Mahabharata. 


The action inspired by the beauty of Helen of Troy led to the sinking of a thousand ships and 
the destruction of the great Roman empire. The insult of Draupadi, by a spoken word led to the 
Mahabharata war and as a consequence the eternal Gita was created. A line drawn by an 
englishman on a map dividing India and Pakistan led to killing and uprooting of millions. 


Spot the reason for being in a tight situation. Do not miss the bus every time. 


That the Almighty God has given us ample opportunities to improve is quite clear. One is 
thrown into a typical situations and tested time and again. A challenging situation may be an 
opportunity to liquidate your bad karmas. 


Vedic Astrology can Read your Psyche from the 5th house:The 5th house controls that 
crucial channel that connects Heart- Brain-Soul. The 4th house governs the heart as Moon is the 
lord of the 4th house of the natural zodiac. The lordship of the 5th house of the natural zodiac is 
of Sun, the significator of the soul. The planets in the 4th and 5th house and their lords indicate 
the promptings that go for every action and it is finally the culturally moulded mind- set that 
processes and gives command . The Sun and Moon are planets of royalty. The 4th represents the 
simhasan (throne) and the 5th royalty and sovereign. In our research on 15 Indian prime 
ministers we have found a dominating role of the 4th and the 5th house at the time when they 
became prime ministers. 


Sun _ as the lord of 5th house of ‘Kaal Purusha’ represents a person with power, kings, prime 
ministers, government heads of state, big commercial firms and new undertakings, cabinet, 
ministers, of state and perhaps holding high political power, person in authority, important 
person in society including influential businessman, honour, fame, big name and reputation. This 
is well accepted in astrological circles. 


As per Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra amulets, sacred spells, learning, knowledge, sons, 


royalty (or authority), fall of position, house of sanchit karmas. The 5th house governs higher 
learning (education) in the Ist phase, children in the 2nd and spirituality in the 3rd phase. As per 


185 


AstrologyKRS 


Mantreshwara’s Phaldeepika the fifth house deals with he mark of the sovereign , taxes, soul, 
intelligence, knowledge of the future, life, progeny, belly. Vedic knowledge and other religious 
scriptures. Vyankatesh Sharma’s Sarvarth Chintamani suggests son, intelligence,ministers, 
mantra, eating, father, heart, belly, power of discrimination as the matters. 


What to see from the 5th in Mundane Astrology: Children, birth rate, educational 
facilities in arts. All forms of national pleasures, enjoyment entertainment, theatre, cinema hall, 
casinos, community parks actors and actresses, artistic activity of the nation, sports, public parks, 
speculation, stock exchange, morals, immorality, scandals, crimes related immorality, elite 
society and functions, upper house of Parliament, Rajya Sabha, House of Lords, schools and 
places of education, ambassadors and diplomats from foreign countries, danger to rule as it 8th 
from the 10th, mentality of rulers even crime according to Mr.B.V.Raman 


The 5th an intellectually stimulating house. Mantra-Tantra is seen from the 5th house. 
No other house has been given such an esoteric character. The society today is changing at a 
rapid pace and we must be in tune with the realities. We need to work in tandem both with 
esoteric and the practical. Divine Intervention is also seen from the 5th house. All about the past 
and the future lives is also seen from the Sth house. Past life regression is seen from the Sth 
house. 


The Amazing Brighu Reading : Mr.K.N.Rao often narrates the case of a doctor who had 
gone for a Brighu reading. In the reading it came out that in his previous birth he was a vaidya 
(doctor) and he had aborted a girl who cursed him. It was mentioned in the reading that she 
would be born as his wife in the next birth. Most surprisingly this doctor came to Mr.Rao and 
gave him a first hand account of his current life. He as a successful doctor in this life had made 
millions. His wife and brother- in- law conspired against him to get him framed to take away all 
his wealth. He is now on the run and is not likely to escape imprisonment. There are many 
instances of rebirths found, the account of which can be had from the book Karma and Rebirth 
by Mr.K.N. Rao. 


Hidden Talent is seen from the 5th house and the 8th house. 


The 5th house and 8th house connection is found in deeply intuitive people. Acharya 
Rajneesh, Amitabh Bacchan and Nostradamus have these links in their horoscopes. The Sth is 
the house for intuition the 8th for hidden talent and 11th for fulfillment and the 2nd wealth 
generation, name fame and also for the mission in life. Therefore the quadrant of 5-8-11-2 
houses of a horoscope complement each other. These famous men with the quadrant link could 
get name, fame and wealth from their innate talent. 


Film making and creative writing is also seen from the 5th house: The 5th house reveals 
your mindset, a domination of artistic planets like Venus and Mercury indicate artistic talent. 


Do you have the intuitive power that could see events happening or is it the tendency to 


give self-fulfilling prophecies. The power to dicriminate, the supernatural and the power to see 
beyond the ordinary is also assessed from the 5th house. 


186 


AstrologyKRS 


Speculation is also seen from 5th house : Do you have the urge to gamble? Do you have 
the midas touch. Whether you can make money in speculation. All this can be assessed from the 
5th house. 


The aesthetic sense is also seen from the 5th house. The power to create and innovate is 
also seen from the 5th house. How much is from your ealier births and how much you have 
acquired in this life life through learning is though difficult to assess but certanly possible to read 
from the 5th house. 


Is it possible to control yourself and balance. Is maintaining the equilibrium the answer. 
How much do you know about yourself? 


The 5th house is the house of education and high learning. The knowledge acquired by 
activation of the 5th house could last for a millenium in the form of samskaras. Our parampara 
(tradition) to cultivate Rajgurus (advisors to the rulers), yogis, preachers, thinkers through yogic 
practices and meditation to reach a high spiritual level is well known. It was a good policy for 
the Satya and Treta Yugas but not for Kaliyaga.The invaders of kaliyuga compelled us to review 
this policy of diverting the strong minds to spirtuality at the cost of our defence. 


Which school of thought do you subscribe to? How cynical about everybody including the 
government you are? Are you proactive in your statements and deed. Do you pass the buck? Is 
cynicisn in you so entrenched that youe believe in none. The Sth house can describe your 
mentality 


How does one let go past the Brain- Suicides, Mercy killings, Murders and other 
crimes. 


If you are running a bad dasha period, the 5th house creates a stir in you that could lead you 
to suicide and other crimes. Do human values emerge only when the going gets tough. Does your 
source of inspiration to do the right dwindle and is shadowed by the evil forces? If you have 
come with a criminal mind-set and your current life's kKarmas are also evil, the planets then drive 
you to a natural and karmic justice. Your karmas can change your conscience. The feeling of 
guilt and the factors that drive one to suicide or to other evil deeds can be controlled. An honest 
counselling at the appropriate time is crucial. 


Is a jolt needed to become a whistle- blower. Patriotism, nationalism and humanism is also 
seen from the 5th house. What drives you to blow the whistle can also be seen from the 5th 
house. Across India many RTI activists have been killed for asking inconvenient questions while 
police usually looked the other way. The bill to protect whistle blowers has come though quite 
late. 


The 5th house governs children. Those impressionable and fragile ones. They are our 
future, rather they are we as we going to be born as them. They need to be nurtured collectively 
for a better environment and a happy life for our own sake. Mother is not a medical condition 
but a promise. Our attitudes need overhauling for our own sake. Human values need to be 
changed especially when it comes to the mother and the child The thinking spare the rod and 


187 


AstrologyKRS 


spoil the child need revision. What are we doing for the spastics, for the hypersensitive and for 
children with short attention spans and pent up feelings. Excerpts from Planets and Children by 
Mr.K.N.Rao, Categories of Children “The ancient thinking about the types of children, a 
woman can have, has always been both liberal and progressive. It is only now when the western 
societies have started legalizing children born out of wedlock or accepting them in the society 
without any stigma attached to them that once again the attention of many Indians have been 
drawn to the problem of what are called illegitimate children. A famous Indian journalist, who 
had earned a high reputation both for his sense of style in English and relatively higher moral 
standards in the disturbed post-independence era of Indian journalism, was the late 
S.Mulgaonkar. All his life, he had one big remorse- that he was an illegitimate son and did not 
know who his father was. Perhaps in the Victorian England, the expression bar-sinister conveyed 
social rejection of a child born out of wedlock. What happens in modern India is no different. 
We have a long list of children abandoned in the hospital and maternity-homes. 


Ancient India was much more progressive in these matters and not merely recognized the 
problem but adopted a very sympathetic attitude towards such children. In the Shanti Parva of 
the Mahabharata, Bhishma explains to Yudhisthira that there could be as many as twenty type 
of sons. But of these twenty, six are from Pratiloma marriages (marriage below one’s status in 
the caste-hierarchy), six from Anuloma marriages (in which the status of the husband is higher 
than that of the wife). 


All these 20 types of children recognised in the Mahabharata were looked after by the 
society which put spiritual value far above the petty fogging attitude of a dogmatic and 
unrelenting society. 


Today along with earlier disparity we have the children of upper class mixed with the 
children from economically weaker section, giving them complexes. We have the problem of 
APHD Syndrome (Attention Deficit hyperactivity disorder), less attention span and problems 
caused by easy access to the perverse on internet and TV which is difficult to absorb by the 
fragile and impressionable young minds. In addition to this the problem of the physically and 
mentally challenged remains. We have to collectively take the challenge upfront for our own 
benefit as we are going to born as children. All this and more on children is proposed in a book 
where a group research was undertaken in 2009 will be presented on issues relating to the Sth 
house. 


According to Mr.Shanker Hegde, an astrologer from Bangalore the negative factors related 
to the 5th house can be seen, now a days, in the horoscopes of software engineers with regard to 
child birth problems. Natural malefics influencing 5th house/lord like Mars, Saturn and Ketu 
make them engineers as far as education is concerned but their children suffer. Doctors would 
advice medication but astrological solutions will be different. Of-course the other factors like 
condition of Jupiter in sapatamasha, 5th from the Sth the 9th house should also be seen. 
Similarly, doctors suffer from the lack of happiness of mother or some times, many of them 
behave like partially insane as the famous theory of Sh. KNR “The drugged Moon” explains it. 
Since the 5th house is the 8th house from the 10th house and the 10th house from 8th house, it is 
capable of revealing the sudden down fall as well as the sudden favours. 


188 


AstrologyKRS 


Many south Indian astrologers, mainly the Kerala astrologers ,call it as “Panchamaarishta” 
or evil of the 5th house if malefics occupy the Sth house. Mainly if Sun is in the 5th they predict 
problems/down fall for the father. But according to my experience it is true to a good 
percentage,but the navamsha and the dwadashamsha must be analyzed carefully". 


4th House and 5th House in Jyotish: 


Reflect on this: A hit on the heart or a blow to a fragile home leave many vibrations ! 
Why? This can be understood by an analysis of the 4th house that governs the heart and 
happiness. Did you know that at the end of each of the first two phases of life governed, 
respectively by the first to fourth house and the fifth to eighth, alarms ring for a lifestyle 
overhaul? These alarms gear you up for the periodical reforms. They reveal that the actions at the 
appropriate time is life’s call, perhaps its purpose. Significantly, the third phase of life (related to 
the ninth to twelfth house) does not come with much opportunity to reform. It ends, without 
forewarnings, in death either with moksha or another life attached after death. 


With Kaliyuga advancing, the purpose of life is getting more and more difficult to 
understand : Is there that undefinable thing you are always seeking but are unable to grip- 
something that you know exists but is difficult to identify? You, at times, can’t locate it though 
you know it is around. It is abstract but it is the most valuable. One way to define it is happiness. 
It lies in the security and comfort that you derive from your mother. It is also found in the feeling 
of belonging and the nostalgia for a place where your roots are- a house you can call yours, a 
room of your own. It comes in the fragrance of the surrounding where perhaps you had a happy 
childhood. It is in going back to the college campus and alumni meets. There are many places 
where this intangible happiness hides. It is felt and is longed for unknowingly. Most of us have 
the exhilarating experience of it though the level differs. In failures it flips over to unhappiness. 
Women melt in sweet appreciation of their looks or dress and men when their ego is greased. 
This happiness is the most sought after thing. It is the least durable in a Kaliyuga destiny and 
causes sharp upswings and downward swings that affect the heart and the mind adversely. 


In a horoscope this happiness (sukh) can be assessed from the 4th house. But happiness 
comes only when there is peace and tranquility within. It cannot rest in you for long unless peace 
too resides in you. 


Does the 4th house cover all the sources of Happiness and Unhappiness- As per the 
classic Brihat Parahara Hora Shastra the 4th house covers:- Conveyance, relatives, mother, 
happiness, treasure, lands and houses, residential comfort, musical instruments, beautiful 
mansions and quadrupeds. Many more additions come to the mind when classical text is 
interpreted in modern context. 


Phaldeepika mentions house, land, maternal uncle, a sister’s son, a relation, a friend, 


conveyance, mother, kingdom, cow, buffalo, perfume, clothes, ornaments, the nadir and 
happiness as areas governed by the 4th house. 


189 


AstrologyKRS 


Satya-Jatakam includes comfort, education, conveyance, heart, landed property, house. 
mother, friends, relatives, cattle and buildings under 4th house matters. 


Interestingly, with respect to the 4th house, the mother, happiness, home, comfort, relatives 
are the areas which are common and accepted by all the rishis. Since it is a crucial house and 
deeply internal, we have three karakas (significatiors) of the 4th house: Moon, Venus and 
Mercury. While Moon represents the mother and happiness, Venus is given the task of governing 
the sweet home and Mercury has relatives under its control. Mercury has this role assigned to it 
as it lords the 3rd and 6th house of the natural zodiac, the Moon lords the 4th of the natural 
zodiac and Venus the 2nd and the 7th. What emerges is that the interior planets Mercury and 
Venus are the source of happiness or unhappiness. They are the core around which life revolves. 
They are the closest to the Sun and the Moon which represent the soul and the mind. The 
Ascendant is the 10th from the 4th and clearly the focus for the 4th therefore is the 10th from it 
the Ascendant which represents the self. Such a relationship of the Ascendant with any other 
house does not exist. 


The condition of the mind at any given time can be assessed by the position of the fast 
changing Moon which waxes and wanes. It quickly turns a malefic from a benefic. Even when it 
appears old at times it can suddenly freshen and look young and new. 


In Mundane - the branch of astrology that predicts a nation’s destiny- earthquakes, weather 
conditions , political and economic projections and the like are seen from the fourth house. The 
4th house lords Land and crops, agricultural, industry, mines and minerals, landed interests, real 
estates, slum areas, hotel industry, weather conditions, landslides, forests fires, volcanic 
eruptions and mining disasters, earthquakes and floods, schools, colleges and educational 
institutions, home, land, patriotism, opposition parties, throne of the king and the like. 


The fourth clearly controls the core of a country. This supersensitive house governs all 
that is central to a nation Agriculture is our foundation and industry our future. Natural wealth of 
minerals and wood from forest is also under its jurisdiction. 


The central portion of a horoscope houses the fourth which is also a moksha house : In 
the square of dharma-artha-kaam-moksha represented by 1 to 4 houses . One reaches the 4th 
house of moksha after being assigned the dharma for a specific human life governed by the Ist 
house. The next station of life’s journey is the 2nd house of artha where matters with respect to 
securing the self and the family prevail. It has under its jurisdiction the family (Auwtumbh) and 
initial education that comes from the mother and family members. It governs money. Dreams, 
actions, reactions and the rigour are in the next station, which is the 3rd house. This house is 
categorized as a Kaam house also. It governs flaming desires and aspirations which prompt 
actions. It is only after exhausting these three levels that the doors to salvation or moksha can 
open. 


Moksha at the 4th house stage is to be interpreted as an opportunity to review, change 
and reform. It is for this reason that the following house, the Sth , is the house of higher learning 
and education. The 5th is again a house of dharma where the Ist phase is to reviewed and 
resolutions to reform made. It is the house of thinking, sentiments and emotions as also the house 


190 


AstrologyKRS 


to be seen for accumulated karmas. The house for karma is 10th and 5th being the 8th from it 
becomes the house of death of a karma or its registration. One is required to regulate the lifestyle 
and control the thoughts to reform. One can derive from the pattern of a horoscope the potential 
to reform. 


The 2nd phase ends in the 8th from lagna which is also called the house that has the 
battlefield. This house traces the struggle and changes and is also seen for moksha. During the 
Ist phase 0-32, it the Lagna (body that rules. The Moon (Mind) holds the key during the 2nd 
phase 32-64 and thereafter the Sun (Soul) from 64 onwards. These three nodal points in a 
horoscope should be used accordingly. 


The travel of the soul from one life to another is certainly a tedious journey in life terms A 
journey perhaps at a speed unknown to man and the route perhaps God has willed not to reveal. 


The key to a meaningful life is contentment and happiness: Whether you delve deep into 
the thinking of Greek philosophers- Socrates, Plato and Aristotle or in the feelings of poets and 
philosophers all across the globe or in the messages every religion have to offer, the focus is on 
karma that benefits all to make the life happy and meaningful. 


Hindu Philosophy believes that it the karma of earlier births that decides the destiny. 
Why should a man be born blind? Why should one born in a family of king and another in the 
family of a pauper. As per Hindu philosophy you are on auto-mode. ‘As you sow you reap’ .You 
create your karmas and your karmas create your destiny. Niskaam karma is what Bhagavad Gita 
prescribes (a karma without its fruit as a consideration ) A karma out of duty and not out of 
desire. This can only lead us to contentment and happiness. 


Home, ‘Sweet Home’ is not in everybody’s destiny: As your karmas of earlier births 
determine where you would be born, they also allocate the level of happiness which can be seen 
from the 4th house. If you have the 4th lord in 4th house or the ascendant lord is in 4th, without 
afflictions, it promises an all weather home. Such combinations also promise happiness, 
conveyances, helpful relatives and comforts. Even when the 4th lord is exalted or in its own or 
exalted Navamsha good results from the 4th house can be expected. 


Our classics mention that if the 10th lord joins the 4th lord in an angle or in a trine, the 
person will acquire beautiful mansions. The gypsies or the migratory shepherds and birds, who 
are deprived of a continuing comfort of the home, surely should be having an afflicted 4th house 
or their 4th lord in the 6th, 8th or the 12th house . 


The research available in the book Planets and Travel Abroad by M.S. Mehta explains 
the 4th house and 4th lord affliction as a combination for settlement in a foreign country, 
away from the ancestral home and relatives. In the coming centuries many people may be 
required to migrate from regions with unbearable heat due to global warming. This has to reflect 
in their 4th house. 


What type of house can you have ? 


191 


AstrologyKRS 


- The Moon and Venus in the 4th give multi-storyed houses, Ketu and Mars — brick houses, 
Jupiter — a house of timber, Sun a hut of grass. 


- Exalted planets in the 4th give beautiful houses. Benefics in the 3rd and the 4th also give 
beautiful houses. 


- Saturn and Sun worry for the houses most of the time but good houses as tenants. 
- Moon in the 4th -a farm house. 
- Venus in 4th — a house with much garden. 


- Rahu in the 4th, a person deprived of a house. Ketu buys and sells farms and makes profit. 


The position of planet in the house is one determinant, though the final conclusion is to be 
drawn by processing many determinants like 4th from Karakamsha lagna, and the 4th from 
swamsha. The promise in divisional chart navamsha and chaturthamsha is also to be considered 
in evaluation while not forgetting to use at least two type of dashas. All this under a tested 
methodology to get to the correct prediction. 


The fourth as the house of Life Force : The importance of 4th house should be judged 
from the fact that our rishis have assigned Moon the significator of ‘Life force’ (praan) as 
karaka (significator) of the 4th house. 


The equation of 10th vs 4th : Karma vs Happiness is perennial. The 4th house is the house 
of fructification for the 10th and the 10th house for the 4th.The 4h house is the most internal and 
the 10th house the most external house of a horoscope. In a high stress lifestyle people tend to be 
short tempered and impatient. Globalisation have made people ambitious and restless. The 
internal aspirations have to reflect on the karmas governed by the 10th house There will always 
be a direct relation of karma with happiness and of happiness with the karmas. 


God wanted man to live happily in his creation but the Kaliyuga Man continues to 
spoil himself and God’s creation in the quest for more: The making of earth beautiful and 
living happy has to be from the actions of the earthlings as spoiling of it is. We need to protect 
the environment, culture, heritage and morality for our own sake for we are going to be born as 
children in this earth in an advancing kaliyuga situation. Think of at least your own self if not of 
others before the greed for more captures you. 


Does every destiny follows the horoscopic pattern? Yes, indeed? But it gives you many 
opportunities to correct and reform as there is 25 percent freewill with 75 percent destiny. Do not 
miss the bus in this life. 


Your Karma may visit you one day, in another life! 
The consequences of an action that takes a few seconds to complete could impact you after 
a thousand years. Hard to swallow! But the mechanism of human action is such that the results 


could remain suspended for years and may manifest themselves after a millenium. Hence, 
whether you believe in reincarnation or not, think before you act. This debate on the moral 


192 


AstrologyKRS 


consequences of our actions surely will lead us to a better understanding of our own self and of 
natural and karmic justice. 


The reaction of an action like pressing a nuclear trigger, could be lasting. But so could the 
consequence of a seemingly innocuous action, like kicking a dog. Think how many times you 
have asked yourself, “Why has this happened to me but not to others?” Be prepared for an 
explanation that cites retribution or reward for deeds in past lives that visit you today. Did you 
know that a seemingly spontaneous action also involves a long drawn process that may stretch to 
another birth! This letter debates the philosophy and the science of an action. You will be 
surprised to find how elaborate the process can be that culminates into a simple action and how 
complex the process can be that ensures every action gets justifiably rewarded-or punished. 


Is it your stars or your wit that will bring you the millions? 


We also takes you to the realm of working of the human psyche that prompts you to act. We 
now look at how the psyche is constructed and how it is structured. How to judge whether the 
psyche is blessed with more freedom or less? Or whether our thoughts surge towards being 
positive, negative, constructive, destructive, creative, aesthetic, morose, lethal or mostly happy 
? This and much more can be traced to the 5th house. The raw-material for construction of your 
psyche are your karmas and karmas alone. This is the reason why the psyche has that subtle 
difference of shade at the individual level. The insightful and interpretative analysis of the Sth 
house that holds the key to the current life’s destiny and of many more lives that are still to 
come can be explained in absolute terms. The focus here is the Sun, the 5th lord of the natural 
zodiac representing the soul. The 5th house, also known as the house of Sanchit Karmas, is 
meant to keep a record of all actions and deeds in perhaps a disk of sorts that the soul carries 
with it after death to another life. This house has your record from perhaps the times of the big 
bang. The destiny of yet another life is carved from that record kept by the 5th house with debits 
and credits to it ona daily basis. The 5th house is the house of karma and the 11th of its reward. 
The equation of 5th and 11th carries on for thousands and thousands of years. Each house 
represents fructification for the other. 


Is Karma more than tossing coins to a pauper? 


An action that becomes a karma of consequence could be in just a gesture, a spoken word 
showing some amount of decisiveness or simply a routine act from motivational forces that tune 
the psyche. The psyche is constructed both from the karmas of earlier births which the soul 
records along with the actions of the current birth. Your conscience too has developed from such 
karmas of yours. Be it a tendency to shower snide remarks, self-praise, ridicule or to criticize 
others. In fact, for every idea that comes to your mind and for every action, there is a reason and 
logic that lurks behind. The samskaras (psyhco mental tendencies) imbibed from actions 
(karmas) of past and current births get built in your psyche. How much of tamasic, rajasik or 
satwik elements (gunas) are there in your psyche and your conscience can be assessed from an 
analysis of the 5th house of your horoscope as the 9 planets and the 12 rashis are classified as 
tamasic (laziness, irresponsibility, cheating maliciousness), rajasik are the undecided qualities 
between tamasic and satwik. Satwik guna or innate quality would mean fearlessness, pure 
heartedness, charity, self-restraint, austerity, non-violence, truthfulness, modesty and the like. A 


193 


AstrologyKRS 


domination of satwik planets in the trinity of 1-5-9 houses, therefore makes you a Satwik, 
concentration of rajasik makes you a rajasik and so forth. 


Processing the Human Action : The 5th house prompts, the 9th filters and the first house 
acts. A process that takes a fraction of a second in some of your actions still follows this route. 
Your reaction to unwanted situations that you are forced into also goes through the same process. 
Therefore don’t judge people by... how they disappoint you but judge them ... by their reaction 
when you disappoint them. 


Every action is not a Karma : An action of consequence only goes to the account and not 
the routine ones.If this screening and elimination was not there the account perhaps would 
become unmanageable. Sanchita karmas are the accumulated karmas of past lives. Prarabdha: 
that portion of the accumulated karma which is allotted for the present birth. Kriyamana are the 
karma we do in the present life. Aagami are the karmas that reflects in our future births. 


Akarma and Vikarma:The Good (Akarma) and the Bad (Vikarma) . Vikarma are a) Anti- 
parental karma b) Anti-family karma and c)Anti-society karma. 


Results of these Karmas: 
a) Akarma leads to salvation. 
b) Vikarma leads to divine punishment and bondage. 


Every Psyche is peculiar : The reward of the same karma will differ based on age, desh, 
kaal and paatra considerations. Marrying 2-3 times in the permissive west will not amount to a 
serious anti society karma as it would be in India. Not caring for parents will be lesser evil in the 
developed west, where children have not seen their parents, respect their grandparents, than in 
India where the society trains you to look after your parents. And culturally and morally it is 
considered a duty. 


Could History be different if free will was exercised judiciously? Are we puppets in the 
hand of destiny? 


History has in its record many major upheavals caused from routine reactions out of 
mistaken perceptions of those in power. Were these pre-willed by the destiny of the earth, 
nations and the individuals or did free will play a role in these actions. Can free will, postpone, 
minimize or maximize. This will remain an eternal debate. Bhagavad Gita answers it eighty 
percent. Lord Krishna tried his best to avert the Mahabharata. It was both the destiny of the 
nation as well the karmas of the high and mighty who did not agree to budge that led to the 
Mahabharata. 


The action inspired by the beauty of Helen of Troy led to the sinking of a thousand ships and 
the destruction of the great Roman empire. The insult of Draupadi, by a spoken word led to the 
Mahabharata war and as a consequence the eternal Gita was created. A line drawn by an 
englishman on a map dividing India and Pakistan led to killing and uprooting of millions. 


194 


AstrologyKRS 


Spot the reason for being in a tight situation. Do not miss the bus every time. 


That the Almighty God has given us ample opportunities to improve is quite clear. One is 
thrown into a typical situations and tested time and again. A challenging situation may be an 
opportunity to liquidate your bad karmas. 


Vedic Astrology can Read your Psyche from the 5th house:The 5th house controls that 
crucial channel that connects Heart- Brain-Soul. The 4th house governs the heart as Moon is the 
lord of the 4th house of the natural zodiac. The lordship of the 5th house of the natural zodiac is 
of Sun, the significator of the soul. The planets in the 4th and 5th house and their lords indicate 
the promptings that go for every action and it is finally the culturally moulded mind- set that 
processes and gives command . The Sun and Moon are planets of royalty. The 4th represents the 
simhasan (throne) and the 5th royalty and sovereign. In our research on 15 Indian prime 
ministers we have found a dominating role of the 4th and the 5th house at the time when they 
became prime ministers. 


Sun _ as the lord of 5th house of ‘Kaal Purusha’ represents a person with power, kings, prime 
ministers, government heads of state, big commercial firms and new undertakings, cabinet, 
ministers, of state and perhaps holding high political power, person in authority, important 
person in society including influential businessman, honour, fame, big name and reputation. This 
is well accepted in astrological circles. 


As per Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra amulets, sacred spells, learning, knowledge, sons, 
royalty (or authority), fall of position, house of sanchit karmas. The 5th house governs higher 
learning (education) in the Ist phase, children in the 2nd and spirituality in the 3rd phase. As per 
Mantreshwara’s Phaldeepika the fifth house deals with he mark of the sovereign , taxes, soul, 
intelligence, knowledge of the future, life, progeny, belly. Vedic knowledge and other religious 
scriptures. Vyankatesh Sharma’s Sarvarth Chintamani suggests son, intelligence,ministers, 
mantra, eating, father, heart, belly, power of discrimination as the matters. 


What to see from the 5th in Mundane Astrology: Children, birth rate, educational 
facilities in arts. All forms of national pleasures, enjoyment entertainment, theatre, cinema hall, 
casinos, community parks actors and actresses, artistic activity of the nation, sports, public parks, 
speculation, stock exchange, morals, immorality, scandals, crimes related immorality, elite 
society and functions, upper house of Parliament, Rajya Sabha, House of Lords, schools and 
places of education, ambassadors and diplomats from foreign countries, danger to rule as it 8th 
from the 10th, mentality of rulers even crime according to Mr.B.V.Raman 


The 5th an intellectually stimulating house. Mantra-Tantra is seen from the 5th house. 
No other house has been given such an esoteric character. The society today is changing at a 
rapid pace and we must be in tune with the realities. We need to work in tandem both with 
esoteric and the practical. Divine Intervention is also seen from the 5th house. All about the past 
and the future lives is also seen from the Sth house. Past life regression is seen from the Sth 
house. 


195 


AstrologyKRS 


The Amazing Brighu Reading : Mr.K.N.Rao often narrates the case of a doctor who had 
gone for a Brighu reading. In the reading it came out that in his previous birth he was a vaidya 
(doctor) and he had aborted a girl who cursed him. It was mentioned in the reading that she 
would be born as his wife in the next birth. Most surprisingly this doctor came to Mr.Rao and 
gave him a first hand account of his current life. He as a successful doctor in this life had made 
millions. His wife and brother- in- law conspired against him to get him framed to take away all 
his wealth. He is now on the run and is not likely to escape imprisonment. There are many 
instances of rebirths found, the account of which can be had from the book Karma and Rebirth 
by Mr.K.N. Rao. 


Hidden Talent is seen from the 5th house and the 8th house. 


The 5th house and 8th house connection is found in deeply intuitive people. Acharya 
Rajneesh, Amitabh Bacchan and Nostradamus have these links in their horoscopes. The 5th is 
the house for intuition the 8th for hidden talent and 11th for fulfillment and the 2nd wealth 
generation, name fame and also for the mission in life. Therefore the quadrant of 5-8-11-2 
houses of a horoscope complement each other. These famous men with the quadrant link could 
get name, fame and wealth from their innate talent. 


Film making and creative writing is also seen from the 5th house: The 5th house reveals 
your mindset, a domination of artistic planets like Venus and Mercury indicate artistic talent. 


Do you have the intuitive power that could see events happening or is it the tendency to 
give self-fulfilling prophecies. The power to dicriminate, the supernatural and the power to see 
beyond the ordinary is also assessed from the 5th house. 


Speculation is also seen from 5th house : Do you have the urge to gamble? Do you have 
the midas touch. Whether you can make money in speculation. All this can be assessed from the 
Sth house. 


The aesthetic sense is also seen from the 5th house. The power to create and innovate is 
also seen from the 5th house. How much is from your ealier births and how much you have 
acquired in this life life through learning is though difficult to assess but certanly possible to read 
from the 5th house. 


Is it possible to control yourself and balance. Is maintaining the equilibrium the answer. 
How much do you know about yourself? 


The 5th house is the house of education and high learning. The knowledge acquired by 
activation of the 5th house could last for a millenium in the form of samskaras. Our parampara 
(tradition) to cultivate Rajgurus (advisors to the rulers), yogis, preachers, thinkers through yogic 
practices and meditation to reach a high spiritual level is well known. It was a good policy for 
the Satya and Treta Yugas but not for Kaliyaga.The invaders of kaliyuga compelled us to review 
this policy of diverting the strong minds to spirtuality at the cost of our defence. 


196 


AstrologyKRS 


Which school of thought do you subscribe to? How cynical about everybody including the 
government you are? Are you proactive in your statements and deed. Do you pass the buck? Is 
cynicisn in you so entrenched that youe believe in none. The Sth house can describe your 
mentality 


How does one let go past the Brain- Suicides, Mercy killings, Murders and other 
crimes. 


If you are running a bad dasha period, the 5th house creates a stir in you that could lead you 
to suicide and other crimes. Do human values emerge only when the going gets tough. Does your 
source of inspiration to do the right dwindle and is shadowed by the evil forces? If you have 
come with a criminal mind-set and your current life's kKarmas are also evil, the planets then drive 
you to a natural and karmic justice. Your karmas can change your conscience. The feeling of 
guilt and the factors that drive one to suicide or to other evil deeds can be controlled. An honest 
counselling at the appropriate time is crucial. 


Is a jolt needed to become a whistle- blower. Patriotism, nationalism and humanism is also 
seen from the 5th house. What drives you to blow the whistle can also be seen from the 5th 
house. Across India many RTI activists have been killed for asking inconvenient questions while 
police usually looked the other way. The bill to protect whistle blowers has come though quite 
late. 


The 5th house governs children. Those impressionable and fragile ones. They are our 
future, rather they are we as we going to be born as them. They need to be nurtured collectively 
for a better environment and a happy life for our own sake. Mother is not a medical condition 
but a promise. Our attitudes need overhauling for our own sake. Human values need to be 
changed especially when it comes to the mother and the child The thinking spare the rod and 
spoil the child need revision. What are we doing for the spastics, for the hypersensitive and for 
children with short attention spans and pent up feelings. Excerpts from Planets and Children by 
Mr.K.N.Rao, Categories of Children “The ancient thinking about the types of children, a 
woman can have, has always been both liberal and progressive. It is only now when the western 
societies have started legalizing children born out of wedlock or accepting them in the society 
without any stigma attached to them that once again the attention of many Indians have been 
drawn to the problem of what are called illegitimate children. A famous Indian journalist, who 
had earned a high reputation both for his sense of style in English and relatively higher moral 
standards in the disturbed post-independence era of Indian journalism, was the late 
S.Mulgaonkar. All his life, he had one big remorse- that he was an illegitimate son and did not 
know who his father was. Perhaps in the Victorian England, the expression bar-sinister conveyed 
social rejection of a child born out of wedlock. What happens in modern India is no different. 
We have a long list of children abandoned in the hospital and maternity-homes. 


Ancient India was much more progressive in these matters and not merely recognized the 
problem but adopted a very sympathetic attitude towards such children. In the Shanti Parva of 
the Mahabharata, Bhishma explains to Yudhisthira that there could be as many as twenty type 
of sons. But of these twenty, six are from Pratiloma marriages (marriage below one’s status in 


197 


AstrologyKRS 


the caste-hierarchy), six from Anuloma marriages (in which the status of the husband is higher 
than that of the wife). 


All these 20 types of children recognised in the Mahabharata were looked after by the 
society which put spiritual value far above the petty fogging attitude of a dogmatic and 
unrelenting society. 


Today along with earlier disparity we have the children of upper class mixed with the 
children from economically weaker section, giving them complexes. We have the problem of 
APHD Syndrome (Attention Deficit hyperactivity disorder), less attention span and problems 
caused by easy access to the perverse on internet and TV which is difficult to absorb by the 
fragile and impressionable young minds. In addition to this the problem of the physically and 
mentally challenged remains. We have to collectively take the challenge upfront for our own 
benefit as we are going to born as children. All this and more on children is proposed in a book 
where a group research was undertaken in 2009 will be presented on issues relating to the Sth 
house. 


According to Mr.Shanker Hegde, an astrologer from Bangalore the negative factors related 
to the Sth house can be seen, now a days, in the horoscopes of software engineers with regard to 
child birth problems. Natural malefics influencing 5th house/lord like Mars, Saturn and Ketu 
make them engineers as far as education is concerned but their children suffer. Doctors would 
advice medication but astrological solutions will be different. Of-course the other factors like 
condition of Jupiter in sapatamasha, 5th from the Sth the 9th house should also be seen. 
Similarly, doctors suffer from the lack of happiness of mother or some times, many of them 
behave like partially insane as the famous theory of Sh. KNR “The drugged Moon” explains it. 
Since the 5th house is the 8th house from the 10th house and the 10th house from 8th house, it is 
capable of revealing the sudden down fall as well as the sudden favours. 


Many south Indian astrologers, mainly the Kerala astrologers ,call it as “Panchamaarishta” 
or evil of the 5th house if malefics occupy the 5th house. Mainly if Sun is in the 5th they predict 
problems/down fall for the father. But according to my experience it is true to a good 
percentage,but the navamsha and the dwadashamsha must be analyzed carefully". 


198 


AstrologyKRS 


James Braha: Man with multiple insights 


James Braha altered the world of astrology in 1986 when he wrote the first easily understandable 
and accessible book on Hindu Vedic astrology, Ancient Hindu Astrology for the Modern Western 
Astrologer which is widely recognized as a modern classic. Robert Hand, the world’s foremost 
Western astrologer, called it a masterpiece. The ensuing tidal wave of interest in Jyotish in 
America spurred Western astrological authorities to return to their Greek and Latin roots, 
translating ancient texts and reviving techniques long forgotten. 


Ancient Hindu Astrology was followed by four more Hindu and Western astrology books: Astro- 


199 


AstrologyKRS 


Logos: Revelations of a Hindu Astrologer; How to be a Great Astrologer: The Planetary Aspects 
Explained; How to Predict Your Future: Secrets of Eastern and Western Astrology (previously 
titled Transits of the West—-Dasas of the East); and The Art and Practice of Ancient Hindu 
Astrology. Nine Intimate Sessions Between Teacher and Student. 


James’ 2005 book Living Reality: My Extraordinary Summer With “Sailor” Bob Adamson is a 
detailed account of hosting the Australian Advaitan master in his home. Living Reality has been 
called ‘a modern classic representation in the field of non-duality.” 


James learned Jyotish with R. Santhanam in 1983 in Delhi, and with P.M. Padia in 1984 in 
Bombay. He has given classes and workshops all over the globe and maintains an international 
astrological practice from his home in Longboat Key, Florida. 

He is the recipient of Jyotish Kovid award and the B.V. Raman Janma Shatamanothsava Jyotisha 
Choodamani award. 


200 


AstrologyKRS 


Horoscope Priorities 


One of the biggest, most critical tasks astrologers face is how to prioritize birthchart 
features. It is a never-ending issue that every astrologer should, indeed must, attempt to 
refine from the very beginning to the very end of his or her professional career. 


Clearly, each astrologer will develop his or her own assessments, based on personal 
experience. There will always be different opinions on which astrological conditions are 
stronger or weaker, and each astrologer is likely to change his or her conclusions from 
time to time. Astrology must always be seen as an art/science of probabilities — not 
absolutes. Thus, what I offer in this article is a guideline. What follows are the general 
results of my findings since I began Hindu/Vedic astrology in 1983. 


Moreover, while analyzing any horoscope, intuition must of course come into play. And, 
as I have repeated in my books and lectures over the years, every single astrological 
feature I have ever seen, no matter how powerful, definitive, or consistent, has at some 
time or other failed to produce its expected result. Astrology, arguably, cannot yet be 
considered a “pure” science. It appears to fit into the realm of metaphysics and 
mysticism. 


The lists of priorities below, which are explained in greater detail in my book The Art and 
Practice of Ancient Hindu Astrology, cover the positive and negative effects of planets. 
And as they are listed in order of importance, it is critical to grasp the seriousness of this 
concept of prioritizing. I have noticed that many students that have read my list of 
strengths for planets think, “Oh, here are many conditions that make a planet strong or 
weak.” No. This is a priority list. I consider the number one condition distinctly more 
preferable than the number two feature, which is distinctly more preferable than the 
number three condition. At some point down the list, of course, the distinctions or 
priorities necessarily become too subtle and nuanced to measure. While number one may 
be clearly better than number two, the same is not generally the case for, say, number 
seven versus number eight. 


Also, note that I use the term “more preferable” rather than “strong”. This is because my 
list is for the most part based on judgment calls. In the same way that one might prefer a 
Maserati sports car, someone else would prefer a Rolls Royce or Corvette Sting Ray. 
Really, how much difference can there be between a planet in its highest degree of 
exaltation and one that is conjunct within one or two degrees of benefic Jupiter? Thus, the 
list reflects what I would prefer to have in my horoscope, if given the choice. 


Let’s examine what I have listed as the number one planetary strength or preference: a 
planet that is stationary direct or stationary retrograde. This means that when a planet is 


201 


AstrologyKRS 


completely stopped while all other planets are moving forward or backward, that planet 
becomes potentially massively strong and powerful. And, please remember that planets 
never actually station (stop) and turn retrograde. They only appear from our earthly 
vantage point to do so (in which case they have noticeable effects within the horoscopes 
they occupy). Also, not all astrology computer programs will note stationary planets on 
the actual horoscope page. In many cases, you must look at the planetary motions where 
they are shown, or in an ephemeris. 


So, when I list the stationary condition as number one in the list below for planetary 
strength, I mean to say that such a planet is most often stronger (more powerful and 
beneficial, whether benefic or malefic by nature) than every other possible feature, 
including an exalted planet and/or a planet that is aspected tightly by a great benefic. The 
typical example I use in workshops is that of John F. Kennedy. On his birth day, 
Mercury, the ruler of his ascendant (Virgo) and his tenth house (Gemini), had stationed 
between the 5 - 8 AM time frame. In other words, the planetary motion of Mercury 
during those three hours was listed as 00.0. At 3 PM, some seven hours afterwards, JFK 
was born and Mercury was then 00.03 - a very tiny motion of three seconds (I consider a 
planet generally stationary if it is within around ten or twenty hours of the exact moment, 
because it will be moving extraordinarily slowly for that first day or so.). 


At first glance, JFK’s ascendant ruler, Mercury, was massively afflicted by being in the 
eighth house (death) and conjunct within about two degrees with the third and eighth 
house ruler Mars — a functional malefic as well as a first class natural malefic. Indeed, 
this afflicted Mercury created JFK’s extremely weak physical health and several near 
death occurrences (he had actually been given “last rites” by Catholic priests several 
times). But, due to the near stationary Mercury he also had enormous charisma and 
personal recognition. Normally a person with his or her ascendant ruler this afflicted, 
particularly Mercury — the planet ruling the nervous system - would have no confidence 
at all. JFK, however, was not afflicted by self-esteem issues at all. 


The only other positive feature on his ascendant was an extremely wide (twenty-seven 
degree) aspect from Jupiter that was essentially cancelled out by the closer (twenty-three 
degree) aspect thrown onto the ascendant by malefic Saturn. And even though the only 
other tenth house feature in his chart was Ketu’s placement (in Gemini), he had great 
fame and career status. 


For those who have seen stationary planets (or any other very beneficial feature) in 
clients’ charts have a much smaller impact than expected, remember that one great 
feature in a horoscope cannot overcome an otherwise weak and afflicted chart. If a person 
is weighed down by an overabundance of weaknesses, especially intense confidence 
problems (weak first house), it becomes near impossible to take full advantage of one 
great talent. I have seen this phenomenon too many times over the years. Indeed, there 
have been several occasions where I had to firmly press a client to get to the truth about a 
stationary planet and the areas affected (the house or houses involved). One such client 
with a very afflicted chart and low self esteem kept saying she had no particular talent 
connected to her stationary Mercury - until I kept pressing and she admitted “Well, my 


202 


AstrologyKRS 


college professor did say I was the most brilliant student (in his particular subject) that he 
had ever seen in his career.” 


POSITIVE PLANETARY POSITIONS 


1) Stationary direct or stationary retrograde — beats everything. 

2) Planet is conjunct within two or three degrees, with Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, or 
bright Moon, where the benefic planet is occupying its own or exaltation sign. 
(Note: Beware dusthana rulers six, eight, and twelve. If a planet is conjunct a 
dusthana ruler — even though a natural benefic, it can cause some significant 
damage, while also giving otherwise great results.). 

3) Planet is aspected within two or three degrees by Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, or 
moon (brighter moon is better). (Note: Beware dusthana rulers). 

4) Planet is within one or two degrees of its most intense exaltation degree, such as 
the Sun in eight or nine degrees Aries or Moon in one or two degrees Taurus. 
(Note: Once a planet is past its highest exaltation degree, it quickly loses 
strength. 

5) Moon within one or two days of full (can sometimes mitigate a fallen Moon — a 
Scorpio Moon). 

6) Planet occupies own or exaltation sign and is well aspected by a benefic — or 
several benefics. 

7) Planet occupies exaltation sign. 

8) Planet occupies own sign. 

9) Planet occupies the house ruled by a benefic planet and is aspected by the benefic 
owning or exalting the house (e.g. Mercury occupying Taurus, while aspected 
by Venus. Or, Moon occupying Virgo, while being aspected by Mercury.). 

10) Planet is “hemmed in” by benefics, and not aspected by malefics 

10A) Excellent if it occurs within one sign (Example: in a case where 
Jupiter occupies the fifth degree of Leo, Mars occupies the tenth degree of 
Leo, and Venus occupies the fourteenth degree of Leo, then Mars — the planet 
in the middle - is “hemmed in” by benefics. 10B) Good 
(but not great), if involving three signs. (Example: in a case where Moon 
occupies leo, Saturn occupies Virgo, and Venus occupies Libra, then Saturn — 
the planet in the middle — is “hemmed in” by benefics. 

11) Planet occupies fifth or ninth house (trikona houses), and is well aspected by a 
benefic. 

12) Planet occupies house one, four, seven, or ten (Kendra houses) and is well 
aspected by a benefic. 

13) Planet is aspected by two benefics (even within a wide orb, say, ten - thirty 
degrees), and no malefics. 

14) Planet rules best houses, thereby becoming a rajayoga-karaka. 

15) Planet rules good houses, thereby becoming a yoga-karaka. 

16) Planet occupying trikona house (fifth or ninth) becomes fortunate. 

17) Planet occupying Kendra house (one, four, seven, or ten) becomes powerful. 


NEGATIVE PLANETARY POSITIONS 


203 


AstrologyKRS 


1) Planet is conjunct within one or two degrees of Saturn, Mars, or Sun, which are 
occupying their fallen signs. (Example: Venus conjunct Saturn in Aries, or Jupiter — even 
though exalted - conjunct Mars in Cancer.) 
2) Planet is conjunct within one or two degrees of Saturn, Mars, or Sun, or Ketu (NOTE: 
a planet conjunct with Saturn or Ketu is the most harmed. A planet conjunct with Rahu, 
while not good, is nowhere near as harmed as it is when tightly conjunct with the other 
four malefics.) 
3) Planet occupying a few degrees before its most intense fallen degree. (Example: Moon 
in one or two degrees of Scorpio, or Mars in twenty-five or twenty-six degrees of 
Cancer.) 
4) Planet is in fallen sign and is aspected by a malefic. 
5) Planet occupies the house of a malefic’s fallen sign and is aspected by that malefic 
(e.g. Moon in Aries aspected by Saturn, or Mercury in Cancer aspected by Mars). 
6) Planet occupies dusthana house (six, eight, or twelve) and is aspected by a malefic. 
7) Planet is aspected by two malefics (even within ten — thirty degrees) and is not 
aspected by any benefics. 
8) Planet is in its fallen sign (but not extremely close to most intense degree of fall). 
9) Planet is “hemmed in” by malefics, and not aspected by any benefics. 

9A) Devastating if this occurs within one sign. 

9B) Very bad if involving three signs (Example: Venus in Leo, flanked by Rahu 
in Cancer, and Saturn in Virgo). 
10) Planet occupies the eighth or twelfth house (dusthanas), and is not well aspected or in 
its own or exaltation sign. 
11) Planet occupies sixth house (dusthana). 
12 (Moon is very dim (e.g. New Moon — where Moon is in same house as sun, or in the 
house preceding the Sun) and not aspected by benefics, and not in own or exaltation sign. 
13) Planet is opposite its own sign (e.g. Jupiter in Gemin or Venus in Aries, called 
detriment in the West). 
14) Planet rules bad houses and becomes functional malefic (Note: do not ignore 
essential nature of planet. A natural benefic that becomes a functional malefic will not 
give all bad effects. It will be partially good and partially bad.). 
15) Retrograde planet is considered latent, or slow to produce outer effects. It is not 
malefic, but is slower to produce results. If results are desired, the person must actively 
pursue that planet’s energy. 
16) Planets in either the first or last two or three degrees of a sign. (Note: sometimes this 
is devastating, other times there is little noticeable effect. Look for good or bad aspects to 
that planet, and use intuition.) 


204 


KCJA 


& Vijay LLP 


The legal prespective on Jyotish 


Meet my attorney Vijay B. Jhinga of KCJA & Vijay LLP. 


205 


AstrologyKRS 


Vijay Jhinga left, his father Kailash Chander Jhinga Advocate left 
KCJA & VIJAY LLP 


KCJA & VIJAY LLP is International Law Firm, extend their services in all spheres of law 
internationally. The firm represents a number of Individuals, large, small and medium 
businesses, multinational corporations in advisory and negotiating roles including business 
transactions and general legal advice. 


The firm’s Area of Practice includes International Law, International Trade Law & Customs, 
Immigration and Nationality Law, Taxation, Intellectual Property Rights Law, Due Diligence for 
Company Acquisitions, Company Law, Accounting & Auditing, Joint Ventures, mergers and 
acquisitions, FDIs, Alternative Dispute Resolutions, Human Rights, Pro Bono services, Medical 
laws, Family Law, matrimonial disputes, Civil and Criminal Litigation internationally. 


Kailash Chander Jhinga Advocate 
M.A., M.Com, LL.B., FCPA (UK), M.Sc, M.Phil 


Mr. Jhinga is the managing partner of the firm. He is practicing Advocate in Supreme Court of 
India. He also registered as Legal Practitioner in DIFC Courts Dubai, UAE. He has a rich 
experience of over decades in International Law, Immigration Law, Accounting, Business Law, 
Taxation, Arbitration and Trade Law in both National & International level. He has handled a 
wide variety of cases in corporate litigation and arbitration. He is on the Panel of Arbitrators and 
Mediator in many prestigious institutions and resolved many disputes internationally. He is 
member of various international legal bodies i.e. Chartered Institute of Legal Executives, 
Charted Institute of Arbitrators-UK, Indian Council of Arbitration, Supreme Court Bar 
Association-India, Fellow member of Certified Public Accountant Association-UK are name as 
few. He has also actively participated in more than 500 International conferences, Seminars, 
Trainings, workshops in India and aboard. 


Vijay Bhawani Jhinga 


He holds Bachelor of Laws, Post Graduate Diploma in International Law & Diplomacy, Master 
of Arts in International Relations, Post Graduate Diploma in Human Rights and numerous 
Diplomas and Certificates in specialized branches of Law. He is the partner of the firm & 
practicing Advocate in Supreme Court of India. He specializes in providing legal representation 
for clients in International Law, Human Rights & asylum Law, Medical Laws, Immigration, 
Intellectual Property Right Laws, Corporate law, Business law, Exports & Imports, Arbitration & 
ADR, joint venture and other civil and criminal litigations. He is member of New York State Bar 
Association, Amnesty International, Supreme Court Bar Association-India, Delhi High Court 
Bar Association and Human Rights Advocates-USA etc. He also participated in various National 
& International Conferences, trainings, Seminars, Summer Schools, public discussions. He has 
undergone specialize training in International Human Rights law in 42nd Annual Study Session 
in International and Comparative Law of Human Rights organized by International Institute of 
Human Rights, Strasbourg, France. 


206 


It was an ordinary day, where I was waiting for my turn to represent my case in the court 
premises as my routine schedule. In the meanwhile, I started exploring social media sites and 
was checking some of the status updated. There I saw the status posted by Mr. Kapiel Raaj, the 
post was regarding Copyright Infringement issues. It caught my attention as an attorney and as 
the nature of my profile of enquiring, I commented on the said status post and I offered my legal 
advice & I asked him the nature of the dispute to get the intrusive details and in this way I started 
to work on this case, Initially I found this case a bit challenging since the information of alleged 
person is quite limited and long distance was involved, with the passage of time, it became really 
interesting and we put our all sincere efforts to resolve the case with full of enthusiasm and our 
hard work and guidance from Senior colleague have been paid off. I was overwhelmed while 
working with Mr. Kapiel Raaj, without his full support and trust, it would be impossible to 
achieve. 


207 


AstrologyKRS 


Copyright law is part of Intellectual property right law. It gives the exclusive rights to 
copyright’s owner of the original work in order to protect the creation of work, regardless of the 
format of work. Copyright law grants various exclusives rights to copyright owner to retain 
exclusive control on work, including the right of reproduction of work, the right to create 
derivative works, the right to display and to distribute copies of the copyrighted work to the 
public by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending etc. 


Copyright infringement is the act of violating the rights of the copyright owner to unauthorised 
use of copyrighted work without the permission of the owner. Piracy word used to describe the 
unauthorised copying, distribution and selling of copyrighted work in copyright law. In the age 
of Information Technology, it’s not an easy task to preventing the copyright infringement 
because almost everything can be copied easily over the internet. Electronic piracy is rapidly 
expanding and one of largest growing the cyber crime in today’s world. Piracy remains a huge 
challenge for the global market and it’s directly affect the copyrights law since direct copyright 
infringement involved. Electronic books piracy has becomes more abundant and becoming a big 
matter of concern. The illegally sharing, uploading and creating derivative copy of e-books gives 
huge monetary losses to the author and owner of copyrighted books. Many studies conducted on 
e- piracy in recent past, shown that millions of e-books were uploaded, shared, and downloaded 
till date. These things take away the actual profits from the authors of copyrighted books and 
publishing entities. Piracy is now a global phenomenon, and requiring the global action to 
seeking effective solution to this problem. 


Buying a copy of copyrighted e-books does not confer any rights of creating or distributing 
copies of copyrighted e-book, it’s strictly for purpose of personal use only, creating any sought 
of copies, reproducing and distribution of copyrighted book, leads to copyright infringement. 
The wrongful intention of infringer with a motive to financial gain illegally. For example, in 
some cases alleged infringer may blackmail to the author to either fulfil the illegal demands or 
else infringer will unauthorize upload the copyrighted book in public domain with an intention to 
financially harm to the Author of copyrighted work. In the recent times, new trends have 
emerged in the global sphere. The infringer uses different types of infringement in today’s 
electronic arena. To uploading 


and making available on various free websites with illegally marketing advertisements, 
uploading in paid websites for offering infringe copies, sale of infringe copies in any format via 
websites like eBay, Amazon etc, commercial piracy for reproducing or recreating, uploading the 
infringe copy to share in relation to peer to peer file sharing network, unwitting uploading via 
website like Torrent etc, to name as few. 


The Penalties for Copyright infringement offences include the civil and criminal liability, on one 
hand copyright owner can file civil lawsuit against the offender or third party for monetary 
damages for injuries suffered, further the Court can issue the injections for resisting infringement 
act for future, the Court can also award the monetary compensation up to $ 150,000 to the 
copyright owner along with cost of litigation and attorney fees (the actual amount will be based 


208 


AstrologyKRS 


upon the court’s discretion) and the court can impound the illegal infringed work. On the other 
hand, it also attracts criminal liabilities against the offender for wilful copyright infringement 
with imprisonment and penalties would be higher than other. 


In my personal view, one of the best safeguard in order to protect the rights of creator of the 
original work, a person should register his original work initially with concerned Copyright 
Office to ensure the exclusive rights as copyright holder. Non copyright work cannot be institute 
any lawsuit for copyright infringement and cannot claim any monetary damages. 


Contact Address:- 

KCJA & VIJAY LLP 

H-48, ADVOCATE CHAMBER, 

STREET NO-3, VIKAS MARG, 

LAXMI NAGAR, DELHI-110092, INDIA 

PHONE- 0091-11-22044587, FAX- 0091-11-22024587 

MOBILE- 0091-9718394205, EMAIL- KCJAANDVIJAYLLP@Y AHOO.COM 


209 


Meet My Main Man Umang Taneja: 


210 


reas 


AstrologyKRS 


NADI ASTROLOGY — PREDICTIVE HINDU ASTROLOGY 


Nadi astrology is hindu predictive astrology which carries 5 simple rules to pin point various events of life. Following are the 
rules and a case study as to how predictions are done in Nadi Astrology. 


Rule No.1 


According to Nadi Astrology a Planet in a Horoscope is under the influence of the following three factors. 
It is desired to give its results in DBA keeping in view these factors. 


1) Its position & the lordship of houses in the horoscope. 
2) Its Nakshatra. 
3) Its Sub lord. 


According to Nadi Astrology Sub lord is stronger than the Nakshatra & in the same sequence Nakshatra is 
stronger than the Planet. In other words planet is weaker than the Nakshatra & Nakshatra is weaker than 
the Sub lord. If planet is promising something & the Nakshatra negates, the event is not going to happen. 
Similarly if Sub lord negates an event promised by both Nakshatra & the Planet the event will finally not 
take place. On the contrary if sub lord confirms an event, event is destined to happen. Whereas if all the 
Planet, Nakshatra & Sub lord join hands together the event takes place without any hurdle or difficulty. 


Rule No.2 


According to Nadi Astrology, 12th house to every house mars the significance of that house. 12th to 12th 
i.e. 11th will stop the expenses & losses 


12th from 10th i.e. 9th will separate one from the job. 


& 12th from 9th i.e. 8th will create obstacles in the life. 

& 12th from 7th i.e. 6th will separate from the marital home 
& may lead to divorce. 

but 12th from 6th i.e. 5th will make one free from disease 


211 


AstrologyKRS 


& litigation although the person may not be inclined to work. 
12th from Sth i.e. 4th will deny the children. 
12th from 4th i.e. 3rd will be loss of property or denying the 
purchase of property & native will go away from the 
house / motherland. 
There are certain exceptions to it as follows : 
12th from 11th i.e. 10th is good for profits in business as both are complementary houses here. 
Similarly 12th from 5th i.e. 4th is good in education since Sth is house of intelligence. 


&12th from 4th i.e. 3rd is good in regard to vehicles since 3rd house is the house of Travel & so on. 


Rule No.3 


In elongation to the above rule 2nd house to every house enhances the significances of the 
penultimate house. 


Rule No.4 


Combinations of Houses give result. A single house never gives result. 


Rule No.5 


Dasa lord (Mahadasa Lord ) is the strongest . It is stronger than the Bhukti lord ( 
Antar lord ) & in the same sequence Bhukti lord is stronger than the Antar lord 
(Pratayantar lord ). 


Dasa to be used: Only Vimsottari Dasa is correct Dasa. 


There are various Dasa systems in Indian Astrology. I recommend "Vimsottari Dasa". According to Nadi 
Astrology in Vimsottari dasa, In all the chapters I'll be referring Dasa, Bhukti, Antar as DBA. 


Results of Planets 


Let us take an example to understand the results of Planets of a Native born on 7 June 1950 at 
22.30hrs Delhi 


212 


AstrologyKRS 


LAGNA NIRAYANA BHAVA CHALIT 


Y 


BX 
WK 
BK 


z 
> 


Sun 23:17 Mon 25:52 Mar 5:28 Mer 29:59 Jup 13:48 Ven 


13:57 Sat 19:59 Rahu 11:33 
To know the results of the Planets we'll pen down the following : 


The Lordship & the position of all the Planets. 
Note: Position & Lordships of the planets are to be seen in "Nirayana Bhav Chalit" chart. 


2) The Nakshatras & the Sub lords of all the planets. 


I'll take up the same horoscope to explain the above 


Step 1 


Step | will be followed for all the planets to take out the Lordship & the position of the planets. 


1) Write down the position of the planet by looking its position in the "Nirayana Bhav Chalit". 


213 


AstrologyKRS 


2) Write down the Lordship of the planet by looking the lordships in the "Nirayana Bhav Chalit". 


Lordship & the position of all the Planets are as follows : 


Sun : 5,8 
Moon : 251 
Mars : 4,8,11 
Mercury : 4,6,9 
Jupiter : 1,3,12 
Saturn : 1,2,7 
Venus : 3,5,10 
Uranus ; 1,5 
Neptune : 3,8 
Pluto : 7,11 


For taking out the houses signified ( coordinates of ) by Rahu & Ketu different method is followed. Rahu 
& Ketu do not have Lordships. Rahu & Ketu give the results as follows : 


1) They give the results of the planets they are conjunct with. 
2) They also give the results of the planets they are aspected by. 
3) They also give the results of the planet in whose sign they are posited. 


Note: Aspect conjunction and lordship all three above pts. Have to be seen from Lagan Chart. Since Aspect and 
conjunction are from sign to sign and not from house to house. Lordship of that planet has to be considered in 
whose sign Rahu or Ketu are posited in the Lagna Chart. 


Hence, Rahu in the horoscope will give the results as under & in the same above sequence 


1) None (rahu is not conjunct with any planet in the Lagan Chart) 


2) 4,8, 1 lc Rahu is aspected by Mars, Mars is in the 9'* House in the Lagan Chart whereas Rahu in 3rd ) 
3) 1 535 12 ( Rahu is in Pisces therefore it will give results of Sign lord of Pisces i.e. Jupiter) 


In addition to the above three conditions We'll also write the position of the Rahu which is “2” in the 
Nirayana Bhav Chalit. 


So all the Houses signified by Rahu are : Rahu : 4,8,11,1,3,12,2 


Similarly for Ketu we'll follow the same steps 


214 


AstrologyKRS 


1) 4,8,11 (Ketu is conjunct with Mars) 

2) None ( Ketu is not aspected by any planet) 

3) 6,9,4 (Ketu is in Virgo hence it will give results of Sign lord of Virgo which is Mercury) 
The position of the Ketu is in the 8th. 

So all the Houses signified by Ketu are : Ketu : 4,8,11,6,9 

Step 2 


Now we'll note down the Nakshatra & the Sub lords of all the planets one below the in the following 
fashion from the table given in the Annexure of the book “Accurate Predictive Methodology” authored 
by Umang taneja & write down for the ready reference during prediction. 


Planet 
Nakshatra 
Sub Lord 

Sun 5,8 
Mon 2,7 
Sun 5,8 
Mon 2,7 
Jup 1,3,12 


Ket = 4,8,11,6,9 


Mar 4,8,11 
Sun 5,8 
Mer  4,6,9 


Rah —1,2,3,4,8,12,11 
Sat 1,2,7 


Mon 2,7 


215 


AstrologyKRS 


Jup 1,3,12 


Rah —1,2,3,4,8,12,11 


Mer 4,6,9 
Sat 1,2,7 
Ven 3,5,10 


Rah —1,2,3,4,8,12,11 


Mer  4,6,9 


Sun 5,8 


Rah —1,2,3,4,8,12,11 


Ket 4,6,8,9,11 


Mon 2,7 

Mar 4,8,11 
Ven 3,5,10 
Ven  3,5,10 
Ven 3,5,10 


Date of Birth -7th June 1950 Time of Birth - 22.30 Hrs. Place of Birth - Delhi, India 


216 


LAGNA 


Louw 


Sun 23:17 
Mer 29:59 
Sat 19:59 


Nep 21:35 


Folwoing is the table of Planets and their Nakshatras and sub lords written one below the other. 


Sun 5,8 
Mon 7,2 


Sun 5,8 


Rah 1,2,3,4,8,11,12 


Sat 1,2,7 


Mon 2,7 


Mer 4,6,9 


Sun 5,8 


Rah 1,2,3,4,8,11,12 


Balance Dasa of Jup : 8y 11m 16d 


Marriage 


X 
8 


AstrologyKRS 


NIRAYANA BHAVA CHALIT 


xX 


x 


EN 


Mon 25:52 
Jup 13:48 
Rahu 11:33 


Plu 22:46 


Mon 2,7 
Jup 1,3,12 


Ket 4,8,11, 6,9 


Jup 1,3,12 
Rah 1,2,3,4,8,11,12 


Mer 4,6,9 


Ket 4,6,8,9,11 
Mon 2,7 


Mar 4,8,11 


Mar 5:28 
Ven 13:57 


Ura 11:0 


Mars 4,8,11 
Sun 5,8 


Mer 4,6,9 


Sat 1,2,7 
Ven 3,5,10 


Rah 1,2,3,4,8,11,12 


Ven 3,5,10 


Ven 3,5,10 


Ven 3,5,10 


217 


AstrologyKRS 


This is Horoscope of a male married in DBA of Mercury-Mercury-Sun on 29% June 1979. To Time the period of 
Marriage we shall first consider the Time Place & Conditions. Keeping into view time place & conditions we will 
delineate this Horoscope. The Native becomes 24 years of age when the Bhukti of Jupiter starts in the Dasa of 
Saturn. For fructification/timing of an event DBA should allow the event, here marriage. First Dasa lord should be 
analyzed if it signifies marriage then marriage can take place in the Dasa after that subsequent Bhukti should be 
analyzed further. If Dasa lord negates the marriage, Bhuktis will not give results. Astrologer should analyze the next 
Dasa in this case for marriage. Similarly if Dasa lord allows but Bhukti negates, next Bhukti should be analyzed for 
the fructification of event. After the agreement of the Bhukti lord, marriage will take place in Antar, which allows 
the event. After the Antar, Transits must endorse the event, which will finally give rise to fructification of marriage. 


Before analyzing marriage in the above Horoscope we must understand that there are three houses which take part in 
marriage and these are 2,7,11. There are three houses which negate marriage and these are 1,6,10. There are two 
houses 5,9 which will always facilitate marriage. 5" being 12m from 6m will negate no marriage, it is also house of 


love. 9 House being 12: from 10m and House of general fortune. 


Two Houses 8 and 12 facilitate marriage when signified with 2,7,11 since 8" House signifies sexual parts and 
dowry. 12: House is house of bed pleasure. It also signifies expenditure in marriage. Please note that when the 12 
House will be signified with 11m it means expenditure because the signification of 11n house means getting 
something in turn of spending. 12 House will signify loss when signified with 8m or 6m House. 


However these houses 8,12 will signify bickering, insults and loss to married life when they will be signified with 
1,6,10 houses. 


Houses 3, 4 remain neutral to marriage and the married life. 
When a native comes to an astrologer for query about marriage of native astrologer should see the DBA for 


marriage from the marriageable age. In this case at the marriageable age Dasa of Saturn and Bhukti of 
Jupiter was in operation. Dasa 


In this example Dasa lord Saturn allows marriage 


(see how to analyze a Planet for a particular event, here Saturn). The Planet, Nakshatra & Sub-lord of Saturn are as 
under: 


Sat 1,2,7 
Ven 3,5,10 
Rah 1,2,3,4,8,11,12 


The combination of marriage is 2,7,11 & that of no marriage is 1,6,10. Houses, 5(Love); 8 (Dowry and sex); 12(bed 
pleasures); 9 (fortune) will act as supporting houses or facilitators or will support marriage Hoses 2,7,11. Houses 3,4 
will remain neutral. Now Saturn will be assessed in three capacities Planet, Nakshatra & Sub-lord. Sub-lord should 
be considered the strongest. First of all Planet should be analyzed. To analyze Planet, Nakshatra & Sub-lord we 
should check all the six Houses i.e. the three Houses which, signify marriage and three Houses which negate 
marriage & the Houses which facilitate marriage to get final picture. 


First the Planet: 


218 


AstrologyKRS 


In this example Planet signifies two Houses, 2,7 of combination of marriage, 2,7,11 & 1, one House of negation of 
combination Marriage i.e. 1,6,10. Since the Houses of marriage are in majority the Planet signifies marriage. 


Then Nakshatra 


Nakshatra signifies none of the Houses of combination of Marriage but signifies House 10 of the combination of 
negation of marriage. It also signifies facilitator House 5. Therefore the Nakshatra negates marriage. 


Lastly Sub-Lord 


Sub-lord signifies two Houses; 2,11 of combination of marriage, 2,7,11 & 1, one House of negation of combination 
Marriage i.e. 1,6,10. It also signifies Houses 8,12 i.e. the facilitator Houses. This implies that Sub-lord signifies 
matriage. 


Conclusion: To conclude, since Sub-lord strongly signifies marriage, although the Nakshatra is weak whereas 
Planet helps, marriage is possible in the Dasa of Saturn. However because Nakshatra signifies House which negates 
marriage and a facilitator House between Planet and Sub-Lord Saturn is weak for marriage. 


Bhukti 


To finally pin point the marriage now present Bhukti should be analyzed, if the present Bhukti allows marriage, 
matriage can take place in the present Bhukti otherwise we will analyze subsequent Bhuktis. In present case Bhukti 
is of Jupiter & will be analyzed in the manner Dasa lord was analyzed. Planet, Nakshatra & Sub-lord of Jupiter are 
as under: 


Jup 1,3,12 

Rah 1,2,3,4,8,11,12 
Mer 4,6,9 

First the Planet : 


In this example Planet signifies no House, of combination of marriage, 2,7,11 & 1, one House of negation of 
combination Marriage i.e. 1,6,10. This implies that Planet negates marriage. 


Then Nakshatra: 


Nakshatra signifies two Houses, 2,11 of combination of marriage, 2,7,11 & 1, one House of negation of combination 
Marriage i.e. 1,6,10. It also signifies Houses 8,12 i.e. the facilitator Houses. This implies that Nakshatra signifies 
marriage. 


Lastly, Sub-lord: 


Sub-lord signifies none of the Houses of combination of Marriage but signifies one House, 6 of the combination of 
negation of marriage. It also signifies facilitator House 9. Therefore the Sub-lord negates marriage. 


Conclusion: 


To conclude, since Sub-lord negates marriage, although the Nakshatra allows marriage, whereas Planet also negates 
matriage, marriage is not possible in the Bhukti of Jupiter. 


219 


AstrologyKRS 


Note: Sub-lord is strongest of both Nakshatra & Planet. 


Now the next step is to check next Bhukti. Since Bhukti of Jupiter is last in the Dasa of Saturn, Dasa of Mercury 
starts we will now check Mercury to check when marriage of the Native will take place. 


Next Dasa 

The next Dasa should be analyzed in the similar manner as the previous Dasa 
Planet, Nakshatra & Sub-lord of this Dasa lord Mercury are as under: 

Mer 4,6,9 

Sun 5,8 

Rah 1,2,3,4,8,11,12 

First the Planet : 


Planet signifies none of the Houses of combination of Marriage but signifies House 6 of the combination of negation 
of marriage. It also signifies facilitator House 9. Therefore the Planet negates marriage. 


Then Nakshatra: 


Nakshatra signifies neither the Houses of combination of Marriage nor signifies any of the House of the 
combination of negation of marriage. It signifies facilitator Houses 5 & 8. Therefore the Nakshatra facilitates 
matriage. 


Lastly, Sub-lord: 


Nakshatra signifies two Houses, 2,11 of combination of marriage, 2,7,11 & 1, One House of negation of 
combination Marriage i.e. 1,6,10. It also signifies Houses 8,12 i.e. the facilitator Houses. This implies that Sub-lord 
signifies marriage. 


Conclusion: 


To conclude, Sub-lord signifies marriage, and is helped by the Nakshatra. although Planet negates marriage, since 
Sub lord signifies marriage, marriage is signified in the Dasa of Mercury. 


Bhukti: 


Since the Dasa lord Mercury is good enough to give marriage, it is possible that marriage takes place in the Bhukti 
of Mercury but only a strong Antar can only make this happen. 


Antar 


In the Dasa & Bhukti of Mercury first Antar is of Mercury itself. Since Mercury does not signify one of the House 7 
of the combination of marriage. Marriage can not take place in the Antar of Mercury. Also it is rule that DBA of any 
sole planet is referred to “Chidra Dasa” which implies no important event takes place in the period. Next Antar is of 
Ketu which is analyzed as under: 


Ket 4,6,8,9,11 


220 


AstrologyKRS 


Mon 2,7 
Mar 4,8,11 
Planet 


Planet signifies one Houses,11 of combination of marriage, 2,7,11 & 6 one House of negation of combination 
Marriage i.e. 1,6,10. It also signifies Houses 8,9 i.e. the facilitator Houses. This implies that Planet signifies 
matriage. 


Nakshatra 


Nakshatra signifies 2,7, which implies that Nakshatra strongly signifies marriage. 
Sub-lord 


Sub-lord signifies 11, one of the House which signifies marriage & 8, one facilitator House & 4 one neutral House, 
Sub-lord is very strong to give marriage. 


Conclusion 


Since Nakshatra & Sub-lord are strongly signifying marriage, Antar lord Ketu is capable of endorsing marriage in 
the Dasa & Bhukti of Mercury. Note that Rahu & Ketu are naturally the strongest of all the Planets & give their 
affects suddenly and strongly. The Native got engaged in the present Antar. The Native was selected /accepted by 
the wife’s relatives on 4: Dec.1978. The Transit of the day is important to note since this is natural than the date of 


matriage. 


Transits 


In Transits, three Planets Mercury, Sun & Ketu (positive for marriage) are in Houses 11 & 2, Houses of marriage & 
Antar Lord Ketu Transits the Nakshatra of Rahu which signifies 2,11. Mercury is transiting exact degree of the 
House 11 in the Transit chart, which has triggered the event. 


TRANSIT AS ON 41h DEC, 1978 


NL 


XOX 


Laas 


Sun 18.14 Mon 11.12 Mar 00.07 
Mer 22.13 Jup 15.28 Ven 14.30 
Sat 20.05 Rahu 29.39 Ura 24.46 


221 


AstrologyKRS 


Nep 24.20 Plu 25.04 


Sale and purchase of 


Property and Vehicle 


Mark the presence of combination of 4,11 in the planets. The Native purchased a number of properties in 
his lifetime. For the benefit of the students oth residential & commercial properties will be discussed. 


Native purchased residential property on 10th March 1986, in the DBA of Mercury-Moon-Saturn. All the 
planets signify 4,11 in the Sub lord. 12th house is also signified in Sub lords of Saturn & Mercury & 
Nakshatra of Moon. 6,8 Houses are also signified therefore the purchase of property was on loan. Dasa- 
Bhukti lords are natural benefics, Mercury-Moon. The property was purchased in prime location in South 
Delhi. In Transits Natural Significators Saturn & Mars are transitting 11th House. Bhukti lord Moon & 
Jupiter (which also signify purchase of property) Transit over Natal Jupiter. Transit of Dasa lord Mercury 
is over Natal Rahu (which also signifies purchase of property) & vice versa. Observe that Antar lord 
transits its own Nakshatra. 


The Native purchased commercial property on 25th May 1994 in the DBA of Mercury-Saturn-Moon . 
Mark the presence of 7th house with combination of 4,11. The property was purchased in Government 
Auction. House of speculation 5 is also signified in the DBA. Significators of Government are Sun & 
Moon. Loan factor is also there because of the presence of 6,8 houses. In Transit Natural significators of 
purchase of property Saturn & Mars Aspect & transit 4th house respectively. Jupiter aspects the 4th house 
whereas Antar lord Moon transits the 11th in the Nakshatra of Saturn. 


The Native started construction in the Dasa & Bhukti of Ketu. He faced series of troubles during construction in the 
subsequent Bhukti's of Venus & Sun. Observe that Venus signifies Houses 3,5,10 & Sun 2,7,5,8. Neither of the 
Houses supports construction. 


Although half structure was constructed in the Bhukti of Moon. 


Native sold a property in the DBA of Mercury-Saturn-Moon in which he had purchased the above 
property. It is the case of simultaneous sale & purchase. In addition to 4,11 these planets also signify 
3,5,10 clearly in the Planet, Nakshatra & Sub lord. We can pin point sale of property exactly in this case 
only by Transits. On 13th May 1994 when the property was sold there had been conjunction of Moon, 
Venus & Mercury in the 5th house. Jupiter which signify 3 was transitting 10th house & was aspected by 
Mars from the 3rd which also signify sale. Antra lord Moon was transitting the Nakshatra of Venus which 
signify full combination of sale of property 1.e. 3,5,10. 


Note:.1f combination of sale of property 3,5,10 is signified with combination of purchase of property 
4,11 it will not restrict purchase of property but there will be simultaneous sale & purchase of property. 


In addition to a number of properties the Native purchased a number of vehicles in his life time. The 
Native purchased a car on 3rd June 1995 in the DBA of Ketu-Ketu-Venus. Since Ketu is a kin to Mars the 
colour of the Vehicle was metallic red. In the transit Dasa-Bhukti lord Ketu is conjuct with Antar lord & 
Natural Significator of vehicles, Venus in the 4th house. Venus transits over its Natal position. Mercury 
and Jupiter are 5th & 11th house in Transits. Both mutually aspect each other. Since there is involvement 
of 6th house in DBA lords the car was purchased on loan. 


222 


AstrologyKRS 


Another vehicle was purchased on 13th December 1995 on loan in the DBA of Ketu-Venus-Venus. In 
Transit Jupiter, Mercury, Venus & Mars all signifying property purchase are conjuct in the 12th house. 
Dasa & Bhukti lord Venus transits in its own Nakshatra.Since there is predominance of Venus in the 
DBA the vehicle purchased was new & white in colour. There is conjunction of Mercury & Venus in the 
Natal horoscope therefore the Native had always purchased premium vehicle for himself & will purchase 
luxury vehicles in future. 


TRANSITS 
TRANSIT AS ON 25th MAY 1994 TRANSIT 45 ON (0th MARCH 1986 


SORES 
XKDOX 
XX 


223 


AstrologyKRS 


TRANSIT AS ON 3rd JUNE 1995 


VENI 


es 
xX 


Travels 


Majority of the planets in the Natives Horoscope signify the combination 3,9,12. The Native has traveled 
across the country. There is combination of 2,4,11 with the combination of travel i.e. 3,9,12 in most of the 
Planets which signify returning home in the Antras. There is combination of 2,6,10,11 with the 
combination of Travel in most of the Planets which signifies that the Native had traveled on account of 
the job. The combination of 5,11 which is also present indicate the travels were also on account of fun & 
relaxation. 


Profession 


There are combinations of 5,9 ; 5,8,12 ; 2,6,10,11 in the Native's Horoscope. The Native started his 
career as a trainee from a public limited company from the DBA of Mercury-Mercury-Mercury. Due to 
the presence of the combination 2,6,10,11 he got promotions one after the other in the Dasa of Mercury. 


224 


AstrologyKRS 


He rose to become Chief Executive of several companies at one time in the Bhukti of Jupiter & Dasa of 
Mercury . Observe the role of Mercury as significator of "multiplicity" & Jupiter as significator of 
"Expansion". Throughout the Dasa of Mercury he used to handle multiple jobs at a time. Since there is 
presence of the combination of 5,9 in the most of the planets, he changed multiple jobs throughout the 
Dasa. Due to the presence of 5,8,12 he was forced to leave the job also. 5,8,12 also signify conspiracies 
against the Native. In the end of the Dasa of Mercury Bhukti of Saturn he left the job altogether & finally 
decided to do business. He started Business as a "Builder" in the DBA of Ketu-Ketu-Ketu. Mark the 
presence of Houses 2,7 in Nakshatra & Sub lord which compelled him to do business. Presence of 
combinations of 4,11 in most of the Planets reflects the Native connected with real estate. He worked in 
all the companies relating to real estate business throughout his life or construction work & finally did 
business of the same. 


Health 
All the planets in the Native's Horoscope signify Houses 1,4,6,8,12. In addition to it Houses 5,11 are 
equally signified. Native doesn' t remember which of his bone is intact. He had multiple accidents in his 


life time. He suffered from plenty of ailments in his life time. Once he recovered magically from the death 
bed in the DBA of Saturn-Jupiter-Mercury. Note: 1 4 6 8 12 is combination of injury due to accident. 


Umang Taneja 


www.nadi-astrology.com 


220 


AstrologyKRS 


226 


AstrologyKRS 


2a) 


