Astrologia Vedica: A Treatise on the Predictive Astrology of 
Rishi Parashara 
By Dean Dominic De Lucia 


Table of Contents 
Dedication 
Introduction 
Part J: Proper Understandings and Mindsets 
Chapter One: The System of Disciplic Succession 
Chapter Two: Leave Well Enough Alone 
Chapter Three: Perspectives on Astrological Determinism 
Chapter Four: How to Deal with Destiny 
Chapter Five: Intuition and Sadhana 
Part II: Component Factors 
Chapter Six: The Zodiac 
Chapter Seven: Indications of the Houses 
Chapter Eight: Rules of House Placement 


Chapter Nine: The Planets 
Chapter Ten: Sign Placement of Planets 


Chapter Eleven: House Position of Planets 
Chapter Twelve: The Asterisms 

Part III: Overall Judgment 
Chapter Thirteen: The Concept of Lordship 
Chapter Fourteen: Incorporating the Asterisms 
Chapter Fifteen: The Timing of Events 


Chapter Sixteen: Aspects 


Chapter Seventeen: Divisional Charts/ Navamsha 


Chapter Eighteen: The True Horoscope of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, 
Prabhupada 
About the Author 


Dedication 

This dedication should rightfully be a two-pronged dedication and, 
therefore, it is. 

I would first of all like to dedicate Astro Vedica to A.C. 
Bhaktivedanta Swami, Prabhupad. It was he who cultivated in me the 
concepts which have allowed me to accept Vedic astrology and which guide 
me in its practice to this very day. 

Principally, he nicely explained ... 

Evam Parampara Praptam 
Imam Rajarshayo Vidu 
Sa Kaleneha Mahata 
Yogo Nashtah Parantapa 

“This supreme science was thus received by the chain of disciplic 
sucession, and the saintly kings understood it in that way. But in due course 
of time the succession was broken and, therefore, that science as it is appears 
to be lost.” 

The question may be raised about why I would dedicate a book on 
Vedic astrology to somone who wasn’t an astrologer. 

Well, when I first ran across Vedic astrology, I was not at all 
inclined to accept any astrology, Vedic or otherwise; not accept it as 
anything other than soothsaying, that is. But because I had had so much 
respect for Vedic culture and the disciplic succession inculcated in me, I 
opened my mind to its study. To this day I closely follow the original Vedic 
system without any hodge-podging or mixing, and I am very happy with the 
result. I owe this perspective to A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, Prabhupad. 

Secondly, I really should dedicate this book to Bangalore Venkatesh 
Raman. Raman was India’s most outstanding astrologer of the 20th Century; 
he did wonders for Vedic astrology, and his achievements had a similarity 
with those of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, Prabhupad. That is to say, he was 
the first to really bring Vedic astrology to the West in the form of his books 
and a lecture given at the United Nations. 

In his books he provided the student with hundreds of practical 
examples of how to interpret a Vedic horoscope and apply the ancient 
techniques; he distilled the essence of the Vedic astrological classics and 


presented them in their proper weight and proportion. The great majority of 
westerners who first took up astrology and went on to help establish it in the 
West first learned from him through his books. 

In addition, his astrological journal was the first of its kind and the 
foremost in India, a true lighthouse beacon. 

I don't know of any modern astrologer who comes near to his 
acheivements. Therefore, this book is dedicated to him as well. 
Dean Dominic De Lucia 


Introduction 
Om ajfiana-timirandhasya 
jhanafijana-salakaya 
caksur unmilitam yena 

tasmai sri-gurave namaha 
"I was bom in the darkest ignorance, and my spiritual master opened my 
eyes with the torch of knowledge. I offer my respectful obeisance unto 
him." 


There are many "how to" books which have been recently produced for the 
Vedic astrology market, and one may question the necessity for another one. 
There are several reasons for this. For one thing, it does not seem that the 
modern astrological writers in India who have presented the science in 
English anticipated exactly how it would be accepted in the West. It is all 
right enough to write in English for an Indian audience. Hindu readers are 
accustomed to receiving information about their own culture without 
changing it all around or grafting it on to something else; they are quite 
comfortable with their culture and they are very traditional to begin with. 
But in the West a more challenging and experimental approach is the norm. 
Thus, even though the Hindus writers, by and large, have done a reasonable 
job of making a presentation of the science of astrology to the English- 
reading public, they have presented it to a public lacking certain perspectives 
on it. 


In this sense, the present effort is truly unique. The beginning chapters 
practically prepare one’s thoughts for reading the rest of the book. Some 
very unique philosophical perspectives and mindsets are presented. 


The initial chapters also acquaint the reader with the concept of the 
Parampara system, a system of disciplic succession. Information received 
from this disciplic succession is not empiric or experimental. It comes to us 
from celestial beings that generated and fostered humanity on the earthly 
plane, and through rishis and sages who were their representatives. Thus, 
this knowledge is special as it was handed down, which precludes the need 
to add or subtract from it- in contrast to the tendency to hodgepodge systems 
of astrology, which is so common in the West nowadays. 


After presenting the reader with parampara concepts, the book then 
proceeds to map out before the reader the main components of Vedic 
astrology, giving all components their proportionate weight and 
consideration. In so doing, an attempt is made to support the astrological 
principles and concepts with both logic and appropriate statements from the 
ancient astrological writings. A constant thread runs through the book in this 
sense, such that a harmonic justification, peculiar to the author's style, is not 
lost sight of at any stage. 


It may be questioned, then, why there have been so many quotes from 
modern Indian (Vedic) writers in the book, given that many modern Hindu 
writers have a tendency to mix up systems and depart from the standard of 
old. (Know that this quoting of modern writers has mostly been done in the 
chapter which deals with the signs of the zodiac.) The answer is twofold: 
first of all, the ancient writers did not typically delineate at length on the 
nature of the zodiacal signs themselves, although they did map out the rest 
of the science in great detail. This may have been due to compositional 
constraints, such that the information had to fit into a certain slot determined 
by Sanskrit meter and rhyme. It seems that the ancient Sanskrit writers 
composed in more of a pleasing and poetic way rather than in the modern, 
frank and efficient fashion. 


A reason which is possibly closer to the truth would be that the ancient 
writers didn't have to delineate in terms of the basics. A student would 
usually learn sign characteristics, which was common knowledge among 
astrologer brahmins, from any local village astrologer. The theme of sign 
characteristics was perhaps too simple to warrant a display of learning, 
maybe as embarrassing as discovering onion soup. And some works had a 


fairly narrow focus rather than a complete presentation of the science; they 
purported to preserve certain elements of the science that, for some reason, 
they felt needed emphasis. 


At any rate, an expanded description of the signs is hard to come by in the 
ancient writings, and there are modern writers who have done a good job of 
expressing the characteristics of the signs. For this reason, proper 
recognition of their comments has been given where due, though 
recognition is not necessary in the case of the observations which are not 
original or which are obvious or generally accepted. 


This in no way, however, elevates the modem scribes to an absolute 
pedestal otherwise, or implies an automatic acceptance of any other 
comments which they might have made. In spite of flashes of brilliance, 
many modem Hindu writers fall short or deviate in some fundamental way, 
and their writings have to be read with a grain of salt. Thus the author of this 
book has only quoted appropriate insights. 


In addition to the "as it is" perspective, and the inclusion of all the main 
component factors - giving proper weight and allotment - the book comes to 
a conclusion with a sample interpretation of the true horoscope of A.C. 
Bhaktivedanta Swami, Prabhupada, in which all of the lessons of the book 
are properly applied. 


Part I: Proper Understandings and Mindsets 
Chapter One: The System of Disciplic Succession 


In the Bhagavad Gita, Shree Krishna establishes the concept of disciplic 
succession, or param-para. In fact, the second verse of the fourth chapter is a 
keystone verse for understanding all Vedic knowledge, not just astrology: 


Evam Param Para Praptam 
Imam Rajarshayo Vidu 
Sa Kaleneha Mahata 


Yoga Nashta Paramtapa 
"This supreme science was thus received through the chain of disciplic 
succession, and the saintly kings understood it in that way. But in the course 
of time the succession was broken, and now that science as it is appears to 
be lost." 


Through these words, Lord Krishna indicates that one should understand 
Vedic knowledge through the disciplic succession, that is, the Vedic sages. 
Why is this? Because knowledge coming down in disciplic succession from 
pure sages in contact with the Supersoul originates from a divine source and 
is free from the defects of mundane sensory perception. 


And what are these defects? According to the Jiva Goswami, these defects 
are of four basic types: 

"such as bhrama or error due to wrong perception of one object for another, 
pramada or error due to carelessness, vipralipsa or error due to the cheating 
propensity and karanapatava or error due to limited sense perception. He 
therefore accepts only shabda (oral evidence from the disciplic succession) 
and no other evidence; the rest he treats as purely subsidiary." By shabda 
brahman is meant transcendental sound vibration such as found in the 
Vedas. 


At this point, let us define Vedic astrological teachings; we are basically 
speaking of Parashara Rishi. He has given us a complete system of astrology 
in his book Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra. He did not say that it was 
incomplete or an installment. And although he spoke his teachings to 
Maitreya, he had the man of the present age, the kali-yuga, in mind. This is 
evident from the sections that deal with Ashtakavarga and Vimshottari 
Dasha. Although there are some less extensive Vedic sources such as 
Satyacharya's teachings, almost all Hindu astrology corresponds to 
Parashara's system and is therefore known as Parashari astrology. 


So who was Parashara in the first place? There is a nice narration in Hari 
Bhakti Shudhodaya (a section of the Naradiya Purana) which illustrates 
how exalted Parashara Rishi was. Apparently, the sage Markendeya came 
upon a meeting of sages in a forest clearing. They were sitting in a circle, 
among them Parashara, who was just a little boy of seven at the time. He 


was seated on the lap of Vasishta Muni, who was the family priest of Shree 
Ramachandra, an avatar of Vishnu. To be seated on the lap of Vasishta is in 
itself an honor. But to get on with the story, Markendeya fell at the feet of 
Vasishta and offered his respects. Parashara, in tum, bowed down to 
Markendeya. Markendeya disapproved of this and instructed the boy that 
elders should receive respect and not humble themselves to those of lesser 
age. Parashara showed surprise and mentioned that, since he was only a boy 
of seven, he was not an elder, for which reason there should be no objection 
to his bowing down. Markendeya, however, cited the sages defining age as 
time which is spent in remembrance of Vishnu. Markendeya went on to say 
that Parashara's devotion was unalloyed and that the boy was in contact with 
the Supersoul. Therefore, Markendeya said that, although only a boy, all of 
his seven years counted whereas if the time all others present there had 
remembered Vishnu were added together it would not even exceed five 
years. That is why Markendeya considered Parashara to be the eldest person 
in the assembly. 


Another anecdote is found in the pastimes of Shree Ramanuja Acharya, one 
of the chief saints of the Vishnu worshippers of South India of the post- 
Vedic era. It is nicely related in "The Life of Ramanuja Acharya," compiled 
by Naimisharanya Das, P - 59, wherefrom we relate: “Just before the 
cremation of Alabandara (Yamunacharya), a saint of practically equal 
stature, Shree Ramanuja arrived and attended the viewing. He noticed that 
the saint had his three middle fingers curled over in a fist-like fashion, while 
the thumb and pinky were extended. "After a while, Ramanuja said' I see 
that three fingers of Alabandara's are folded and clenched tight. Were they 
like that during his lifetime?" 


"The disciples who were close by replied, 'No, his fingers used to remain 
straight. We cannot guess why they are like this now." 


"Ramanuja then declared aloud, ‘Remaining fixed in devotion to Lord 
Vishnu, I shall free the people from illusion by spreading the glories of the 
Lord throughout the land.’ As these words were spoken, one of the fingers 
relaxed and became straight." 


“Ramanuja spoke again, saying, To establish that there is no truth beyond 


Lord Vishnu, I shall write the Shree Bhashya commentary on the 
Vedantasutra.' At this, the second of Alabandara's fingers became straight." 


"Ramanuja declared again, 'In order to show respect to the sage Parashara, 
who has so wonderfully described the glories of the Lord in the Vishnu 
Purana, I shall name one learned vaishnava after him.' With this final 
statement, the last of Alabandara's fingers relaxed and became straight." 
This story, relating to the three vows of Ramanuja Acharya, are part of the 
lore of the Vishnu worshippers of South India; the last vow highlighting the 
exalted status of the Sage Parashara. 


From these stories we can conclude that Parashara Rishi was certainly an 
exalted personality and a pure medium for astrological knowledge. His 
teachings would not be tinged with any of the aforementioned empiric 
defects. Keep in mind that he is also the father of the sage Vyasadev who 
compiled the very Vedas! 


As far as Parashara's sources are concerned, he states in several places in his 
treatise that "I was instructed by Brahma ..." or that "such and such I have 
heard from Narada." We know from Bhagavat Purana (canto two, chapter 
nine) and other similar sources that Brahma is the "Adi-Devo Jagatam" or 
first demigod of the universe and "Para Guru," the supreme guru (verse 
five). He was so successful at yogic practice that the Personality of Godhead 
Narayana appeared before him from the spiritual sky (Vaikuntha), shook his 
hand, smiled at him and referred to him as being impregnated with the 
Vedas. Brahma may therefore be considered a perfect source of knowledge 
as he has the recommendation of Narayana, shook His hand, and saw Him 
personally! Narada is his offspring. 


This means that astrological teachings coming down from Brahma and 
Narada to Parashara are free from mundane sensory defects. And to learn 
from such sages is the perfection of the above keystone verse. 


On the other hand, even if one looks for empiric evidence, he may rest 
assured. Since the close of the Vedic age several thousand years ago, some 
of the greatest intellects of India have applied themselves to this system of 


astrology. They have been patronized by great kings and wealthy men, or 
have had ample facilities in some way. Their findings and understanding of 
Parashara's system have been documented in the form of such great books 
as Brihat Jataka by Varaha Mihir and Jataka Parijata by Vaidyanath 
Dikshita. Experimentation with the system has not been lacking. So it seems 
that, in Vedic astrology, we have not an empiric system subject to human 
imperfection. Rather, we have a system that is free from such defects, 
though employed by fragile human beings. 


Chapter Two: Leave Well Enough Alone 

Given the fact that Vedic astrology is coming down through the chain of 
disciplic succession, then it should be understood in the same way that the 
disciplic succession of sages presented it. According to the keystone verse, 
that is the way in which the saintly kings understood transcendental 
knowledge, what to speak of us. In the 34th shloka of the same fourth 
chapter of the Bhagavad Gita, Shree Krishna also advises "Pariprashneya 
Sevaya," or an attitude of humble inquiry and devotional service to go along 
with it. That is the way to receive Vedic knowledge, astrological or 
otherwise, according to Shree Krishna, whom Arjuna deemed infallible 
(Achutya). 


In the West, of course, it is typical to be challenging, especially in academic 
circles. It is fashionable to be original and find out something new, or even 
to disprove one's predecessors. That way, one makes a name for oneself. 
This is actually a good way to go if the goal is to develop new technologies, 
industries or to project oneself across oceans to new continents. (Who would 
have ever heard of Christopher Columbus if he weren't original?). It is not a 
good way, however, to understand Vedic knowledge coming down in 
disciplic succession as pointed out in the Bhagavad Gita. 


The speculative, experimental approach to Parashari astrology simply brings 
us to the point of fixing something which is not broken, even tampering with 
the already refined. It is well documented that Vedic astrology is very 
accurate in the timing of mundane events. In terms of personality analysis 
also, Vedic astrology offers a soulful, instinctive perspective from Surya 
Lagna, (Sun chart), an emotional perspective from Chandra (Moon chart), 
and a more general point of view from the lagna proper or ascendant. It is 


actually much broader that the Western system and replete with techniques 
and methods of analyses otherwise unknown (such as the planetary periods 
and methods for assessing planetary strength). So why not accept this 
wonderful system of astrology as it has been handed down instead of 
speculating on it with our imperfect senses? 


And it is not reasonable to think that the Western system and Parashara's 
complement each other. They are different systems with a different logic 
behind them and a different set of rules for interpretation; they don't lead to 
the same place by different roads. It would be more accurate to say that they 
are mutually exclusive of each other. Maybe this is what Jiva Goswami 
means when he uses the term "Vipralipsa;" it is possible that we fool 
ourselves without really knowing it. 


Therefore, as we go about the study of Vedic astrology let us recall the 
Gita's keystone verse and try to understand from the previous acharyas 
(teachers). As a final inspiration, we can meditate on Arjuna's words from 
the seventh verse of the Gita's second chapter: Sishyas te ham shadi mam 
tvam prapanam: " Now I am a your disciple and a soul surrendered unto 
you. Please instruct me." 


Chapter Three: Perspectives on Astrological Determinism 

The theme of astrological determinism has been in existence for as long as 
astrology itself. They go hand in hand, for although one may be bound by 
karmic reactions, one still has some free will upon which to call. And God's 
will must be factored into the equation, too. So naturally, a question arises; 
up to what degree are we bound and at which point does free will or divine 
intervention come into play? Unfortunately, the answers to these questions 
are not always understood properly in relation to the science of astrology. 


Typically, there are various grounds upon which the authority of horoscopic 
indications is mistakenly minimized. For example, some feel that free will 
reigns supreme in its contest with karmic and horoscopic indications. 


But it must be kept in mind that the soul is not possessed of absolute free 


will in the first place. In his writings, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami, the 
founder-acharya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, 
typically makes reference to the "minute free will of the living entity." 


The disciples of Swami Bhaktivedanta give an appropriate analogy to 
describe how the living entity bargains away his free will and becomes 
karmically bound in their commentary to the 12th canto of Shrimad 
Bhagavatam. It is similar to boarding an airplane, they write. When an 
individual boards an airplane, that person is bound by such action. One 
cannot capriciously decide to change one's fate and walk out the door. The 
person becomes bound by his or her former decision and must remain aloft 
for a while. 


Furthermore, they explain that this decision opens up a whole new array of 
choices. For example, one may choose coach fare and then decide to 
upgrade to first class. Or one may decide to see a movie or not to do so. The 
point is that the exercise of free will is never negated, but still karmic 
environments and specific reactions will manifest. There is choice, but not as 
much as we might think. 


Others feel that by taking initiation from a bona fide spiritual master one's 
karmas are accepted by him and that afterwards, the supersoul takes 
responsibility for guiding one's life from within. Still others feel that through 
spiritual practice (sadhana) one's karmas gradually melt away such that one 
is no longer bound by them. In all such cases, the horoscope would come to 
have less and less validity. 


The example of a fan may be appropriately applied. When the plug of a fan 
is pulled out the blade continues to rotate because of the momentum. This is 
true even though no new impetus is received. Similarly, a practitioner of 
sadhana (spiritual life) may incur no new karma, but he will continue to 
receive karmic reactions from before. Thus it's true that new karmas are 
avoided though responsibility must be taken for old karmas. (“Certain old 
karmas, as we shall see) 


This actually occurred in the case of the Avanti (district of Malwa in India) 


brahmin mentioned in the 11th canto of the Bhagavat Purana. This 
brahmin had been materialistic but renounced the world to practice sadhana 
on the banks of a holy river. For all his efforts he was rewarded by being 
beaten up and tormented by hooligans. He was not sorry for that, however; 
he blamed it on his previous impious activities and the root cause of these, 
his mind. The point is that although he was engaged in spiritual practice, not 
all of his karmas dropped off immediately. 


This seems to be in stark contrast to the instructions of the Vishnudutas to 
the followers of Yamaraj. While snatching the soul of Ajamil from their 
grasp, the Vishnudutas explained that even casual mention of the name of 
Narayana can relieve a soul of more karma than a soul could possibly 
commit. They also mentioned that Ajamil's utterance of the Holy Name was 
especially efficacious because he did so without offenses and in a pitiable 
condition. 


There are many other statements such as this in the Vedic literature. One 
nice example may be found in the Bhakti-Rasamrita of Rupa Goswami. In 
the ninth chapter of this work Shree Rupa quotes Narada Muni in the 
Dvarka Mahatmya as saying "From the body of any person who claps and 
dances before the deity, showing manifestations of ecstasy, all the birds of 
sinful activity fly away." 


Does this mean that just by attending religious ceremonies such as the aroti 
ceremony that all of one's karma is negated and that horoscopic indications 
become negligible? Certainly not, but the answer to this conundrum must be 
fully understood before one can have faith in one's horoscope and make use 
of it. 


First of all, it should be understood that astrology is not simply a study of 
karmic reactions. Rather, astrology indicates the will of the Supreme 
expressed through his agency of Time. Astrology is principally a study of 
time. 


The point being that the will of Vishnu\Krishna is indicated by astrological 
phenomena. Therefore, this phenomenon should not be considered as some 


kind of separate power from the will of God. The idea is not similar to the 
Christian concept of God and the Devil. According to the Christians, the 
Devil exists as some kind of separate power outside of the framework of the 
Lord. Astrology should not be seen in that way. In the Bhagavad Gita, 
Krishna explains in the first person that "Time I am, the great destroyer of 
the worlds" (Kalo 'smi Loka Kshaya Krit Pravriddho). Time is not even 
referred to in the possessive case as an agency but rather, in the first person, 
thus indicating that time is indicative of the direct will of God. So much so 


that in the 11 Chapter of Gita, Arjuna witnessed a form of the Lord called 
the Kala Rupa, the Form of Time. 


Time's role as a beginning and end is generally well understood, but there is 
another, less understood aspect of Time which has been pointed out in the 
same 11th Chapter of Gita (Texts 33 and 34): "Conquer your enemies and 
enjoy a flourishing kingdom. They are already put to death by my 
arrangement, Oh Savyasachi, and you can be but an instrument in the fight. 
Drona, Bhishma, Jayadratha, Karna and the other great warriors have 
already been destroyed by me." 


A deeper understanding of the involvement of thinking, feeling and willing 
on the occurrence of any action helps us to understand the nature of time 
and chronology. Any action must be first initiated on the mental platform, 
which is an ethereal, platform; sometimes the word "astral" is used to 
indicate this platform. For example, in the 33rd text of the 26th chapter of 
the third canto of the Bhagavat Purana, His Divine Grace A C. 
Bhaktivedanta Swami, Prabhupada, confirms this: "Subtle forms are 
generated from the ethereal element, ... mental activities are also on the 
platform of ethereal existence." 


It is only after an action occurs on the subtle, ethereal platform that it 
actually takes place in the gross material sphere. This is the understanding 
behind Shree Krishna’s words ’They are already put to death by my 
arrangement.” A certain trickle-down effect occurs culminating with the 
final manifestation of an action on the gross material platform. The 
successive, trickle-down manifestations of an action in the various realms, 
subtle then finally gross, is actually an exhibition of the chronology of Time, 
comprehended now in a more complete way. For this reason it is useless to 


resist one’s destiny as destiny has already occurred on subtler planes; it is 
just a matter of time before the played-out fate manifests on the material 
plane. Astrological symbols indicate these “days of the future past from the 
subtler, ethereal planes. 


And although it is true that karmas fall off for one who utters Hare Nama 
and engages in spiritual practice otherwise, the confusion actually has to do 
with which karmas are the ones that are cancelled. 


A year or two back an essay was generated by the Philosophical Research 
Committee of the Hare Krishna movement, penned by Shyamasundara 
Dasa, which shone some light on this question. It was entitled "Fate, 
Freewill and the Law of Karma." 


This essay began by explaining divisions of karma because not all karmas 
are of the same nature. Kriyaman karma is defined as newly created karma 
and sanchita karma as stored-up karma. Sanchita karma is further divided as 
anurabdha karma, or reactions that have not yet manifested and are lying in 
a seed-like state, and prarabdha karma, which refers to karma which has 
already begun to manifest. 


Then the Vedantra Sutra is quoted which states: "Upon obtaining Vidya 
there takes place the non-clinging of works done in the present life, and the 
destruction of karma stored up which was done in the past life. This is so 
because it is declared in the Upanishads." This seems to support the idea that 
one gets off scot-free by chanting Narayana's name or clapping his or her 
hands in front of Shree Murti. 


But the 15th verse of the same chapter seems to put everything in its 
perspective. There it is stated that"... only the immature karmas of former 
lives, namely, those karmas whose effects have not begun, are destroyed by 
knowledge." This verse seems to suggest that the prarabdha karmas, the 
ones depicted in the horoscope, remain even if one were to obtain Vidya. 


The horoscope is actually the wheel of time which was set into motion at the 


moment of birth. The prarabdha karmas it represents have already 
manifested; it is only a matter of time before they come to pass on the 
physical plane. And according to the above verse of Vedantra Sutra, these 
karmas will come to pass even if one takes up religious practice (sadhana) or 
obtains Vidya (knowledge). 


As explained in the paragraphs above, this truth is reminiscent of Shree 
Krishna's statement to Arjuna in the Gita (11th chapter) wherein He 
instructs Arjuna that " These soldiers and kings have already been put to 
death by my arrangement, Oh Savyasachin, and you can be but an 
instrument." 


For further understanding we can refer to the narration of the birth of 
Maharaj Parikshit in first canto, twelfth chapter of the Shrimad 
Bhagavatam. Parikshit Maharaj was an exalted soul because he was 
protected by Vishnu in the womb of Uttara (from the Brahmastra of 
Ashvattama). The brahmins of the court of King Yudhistira referred to him 
as a maha-bhagavat, a pure devotee of the lord; Parikshit Maharaj was a 
pure devotee from his very birth. 


Even so, the Bhagavatam states that "Thereupon, when all the good signs 
of the zodiac gradually evolved, the heir apparent of Pandu, who would be 
exactly like him in prowess, took birth." (1.12.12) In his commentary on this 
verse, His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami states that "Maharaj 
Parikshit, or even the Personality of Godhead appear in certain 
constellations of good stars, and thus the influence is exerted upon the body 
thus bom at an auspicious moment ... a suitable moment was chosen when 
all good stars assembled together to exert their influence upon the king." 


The question of whether or not the king carried with him prarabdha karmas 
when he took birth becomes immaterial when the following point is 
understood; that even though Maharaj Parikshit was a maha-bhagavat, a 
pure devotee of the lord, his horoscope still corresponded to the events 
which unfolded in his life. This practically suggests that astrological 
phenomena will remain valid for all beings, in spite of one's exercise of free 
will or one's level of spiritual attainment. 


As an example of the validity of the king's horoscope, the jataka vipras 
(astrologers) predicted that King Parikshit "Would be true to his promise like 
Rama, the son of Dasaratha...exactly like King Ikshvaku in maintaining 
those who are born ... a munificent donor of charity and protector of the 
surrendered like the famous King Shibi ... amongst great bowman the child 
will be as good as Arjuna ...," and even more (IBID). 


Besides these general predictions, the brahmins foretold specific incidents 
about Parikshit Maharaja's future life. For example: "After hearing of his 
death, which will be caused by the bite of a snakebird sent by the son of a 
brahmin, he will get himself freed from all material attachment and surrender 
to the Personality of Godhead, taking shelter of him. After inquiring about 
proper self-knowledge from the son of Vyasadev, who will be a great 
philosopher, he will renounce all material attachment and achieve a life of 
fearlessness" (IBID). 


All of this came true in the life of Maharaj Parikshit from which we may 
conclude two things. First of all, the astrologers of the court of Maharaj 
Yudhistira mastered the Vedic system very well. This had to be so in order 
for them to predict so accurately. Contemporary astrologers should take a 
lesson from the astrologers of old; half-baked interpretations from 
astrologers who don't have a good working knowledge of the system nor 
sufficient experience cannot be approved of. At the present time, as Vedic 
astrology is becoming transplanted to the West, it is even seen that immature 
practitioners read three books and hang their shingle, so to speak. 


Secondly, we can conclude that astrological indications strongly correspond 
to the lives of pure souls, Godhead himself (Shree Krishna), and Vishnu 
expansions. What then, can we say of souls who are still in the conditioned 
state, even if they have begun to tread the path of self-realization. 


At this point, we now have a basis for understanding Vedic astrology. We 
have seen from whom to understand, how to understand, and we have also 
seen that astrological influences will be indicative in all cases, beginning 
with Shree Krishna and his pure devotee down to the common man. 


Chapter Four: How to Deal with Destiny 
The Bhagavad Gita is very instructive insofar as how to face up to one's 
destiny. When faced with the prospect of engaging in a fratricidal war in 
order to recover his unlawfully usurped kingdom, Arjuna commented to 
Shree Krishna: 
aho bata mahat papam 
kartum vyavasita vayam 
yad rajya-sukha-lobena 
hantum sva-janam udyatah 


yadi mam apratikaram 

asastram sasta-panayah 

dhartarastra rane hanyus 

tan me kshemataram bhavet 

"Alas, how strange it is that we are preparing to commit greatly sinful acts. 
Driven by the desire to enjoy royal happiness, we are intent on killing our 
own kinsmen. Better for me if the sons of Dhritarastra, weapons in hand, 
were to kill me unharmed and unresisting on the battlefield." (Bhagavad 
Gita, chapter 1, texts 44 and 45). 


In other words, Arjuna was not inclined to engage in warfare for material 
gains because he was saintly and had higher considerations to make. In the 
second chapter, text 5, Arjuna says: Shreyo Bhoktum Bhaiksyam, that "It 
would be better to live by begging" (than by killing). Arjuna was willing to 
give up an opulent kingdom in order to avoid bloodshed, and to walk off 
and become a mendicant. In text 9, Arjuna even came to the point of 
announcing "Govinda, I shall not fight." 


Shree Krishna's reaction was very interesting. He did not advise Arjuna to 
run away from the problems of life. Rather, He advised Arjuna to have a 
spiritual perspective, to take devotion to God into consideration as well as 
karma and duty. In fact, by the end of the Bhagavad Gita, Shree Krishna 
had made things very clear: 
shreyan sva dharmo vigunah 
para-dharmat sv-anushthitat 
svabhava-niyatam karma 
kurvan napnoti kilbisham 


"It is better to engage in one's own occupation, even though one may 
perform it imperfectly, than to accept another's occupation and perform it 
imperfectly. Duties prescribed according to one's nature are never affected 
by sinful reactions" (chapter 18, text 47). 


Arjuna's reaction, once the full message of the Gita was spoken to him, was 
maybe even more interesting. He didn't ask for personal favors along the 
lines of karmic alleviation, even though the original form of Vishnu was 
standing in front of Aruna playing the role of a friend. He didn't ask 
Krishna to turn back the hands of time in order to do things over, nor did he 
try to escape the karma in front of him in any way shape or form by wearing 
rings, other talismans, chanting mantras, or by becoming empowered in any 
way. Rather, Arjuna discovered in himself a willingness to confront the 
situation in front of him and deal with it. 
Arjuna uvacha: 
Nashto mohah smitir labdha 
tvat-prasadan mayacyuta 
sthito 'smi gata-sandehah 
karishye vacanam tava 

"Arjuna said: My dear Krishna, Oh infallible One, my illusion is now gone. 
I have regained my memory by Your mercy. I am now firm and free from 
doubt and am prepared to act according to your instructions." (Bhagavad 
Gita, verse 73, chapter 18) 


In other words, Arjuna seemed ready to engage in his own "occupation" 
(face his own destiny) even though it seemed "imperfect" in some sense. 
How different from the beginning of the Gita when the particular set of 
troubles in front of Arjuna seemed so terrible to him that he trembled, let his 
bow fall to the ground, felt confused and became dry at the mouth. 
However, once he was free from illusions he then understood things clearly 
and was willing to accept the apparent karmic reactions coming his way. 


Nowadays, of course, it has become the fashion to try to overturn the 
indications of time/astrology by various remedial measures. But perhaps this 
shouldn't really be our purpose. In real life, we have to be willing to face up 
to things and to do our part until the karma plays itself out and we are freed. 
Imagine a sports player whose team is losing a championship game without 
enough time to recover. Is he allowed to give in to his lamentation and walk 


away? No, he still has to go through the motions until the last minute, even 
though he knows all is lost. He has to be responsible. He even has to know 
how to lose, just as we have to know how to face our karmic reactions. The 
simple attitude of responsibility that Arjuna showed towards his destiny is 
certainly a good one to apply towards horoscopy. After all, it was an attitude 
born of a state of mind which was free from illusions. 


Even so, conditioned souls cannot be expected to be on the same level as 
Arjuna. The Vedas and classical astrological literature do mention remedial 
measures, which may help minimize karmic reactions, although total 
eradication is not promised. So in one sense, destiny is not so severe, and the 
general population may take advantage. 


Unfortunately, there seems to be a few misconceptions about methods of 
minimizing planetary indications. I assure the reader that it is not so simple a 
matter. Gemology is one particular area which has a lot of confusion 
surrounding it. 


In a document called "Is Wearing Jewels Bonafide or Bogus?," 
Shyamasundara Dasa quotes the Garuda Purana. Chapter 68, verses 6 - 8 
state: "On account of their intrinsic merit some of them (jewels) imbibed the 
power of quelling obstacles from the influence of demons, poisons, serpents 
and sickness, and others are devoid of any qualities." Text 11 makes a 
useful statement, too: "First the shape and color are to be tested, then its 
merits and defects are to be understood; its influence must then be 
known....". Then text 12 says: “Gems bought or first used under a bad 
ascendant or inauspicious day become defective and even lose their merits." 


Shyamasundara goes on to say that: "As seen in previous verses, the expert 
must know what the specific influence of each jewel will be. This doesn't 
mean that all diamonds have one effect, all rubies another, and similarly for 
other gem categories. It seems from verse 11 that each individual jewel may 
have its own unique qualities that may or may not be shared with other gems 
of its class. I dare say that the kind of gemologist who can determine the 
individual gem qualities is probably rarer than the gems themselves." His 
point is clear. 


And in spite of the fact that gems are purported to have mystic influences in 
the Puranas, they are not specifically prescribed to overturn the evil 
influences which are indicated in the horoscope. Even though gems are 
mentioned in the classic astrological literature, it is important to understand 
in what context they are mentioned. Always, mention of gems is simply 
couched in the middle of a paragraph which consists of a list of all kinds of 
things which correspond to a given planet. A typical paragraph might 
mention, for example, that new cloth, cotton, water, pearls, salt, and milk 
correspond to the Moon. But this doesn't constitute a confirmation to the 
effect that pearls are effective against evil lunar indications. The pearls are 
just mentioned as corresponding to the Moon, along with the other objects. 
The tantrik (mystic) astrologers in India do make good business at gem 
prescription, but there are no instructions to prescribe in this way in the 
astrological literature. 


Unfortunately, it is not uncommon in modern times, either in the West or in 
India, for astrologers to speak along the lines of "dominating your fate" by 
using the gems which they prescribe. I have personally seen astrologers give 
fancy talks along such lines, then whip out gems after the lecture for sale. In 
India, the astrologers even receive commissions on the gems which they 
prescribe. They recommend certain jewelers with whom they have 
arrangements. Obviously, it is hard for any professional with business 
interests related to the particular counseling to give objective advice, and 
there are many cases of astrologers selling gems at inflated prices and taking 
advantage of trusting souls. 


At this point in the kaliyuga, it is simply not feasible to prescribe gemology 
as a remedial measure against one's karma. And although gems do have 
influences, the experts are not available as in Vedic times, the gems are too 
costly, and many so-called astrologers with ulterior motives cloud the issue 


anyway. 


In the 84th chapter of The Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra however, 
Parashara Rishi does prescribe worship of the planetary deities, prayer and 
charity to brahmins (priests) as remedial measures. He does explain that the 
creator (Brahma) instructed the presiding planetary deities to "do good unto 
those that worship you." But Parashara did not prescribe gems. In India, it is 


still possible to take advantage of the navagraha puja (worship of the nine 
planets) in the appropriate temples. It is also becoming difficult to even find 
a brahmin worthy of charity in modern days. In the West, all of this is 
difficult. 


The following are different planetary mantras, which are prayers, along with 
the number of times they are to be chanted. This is the one remedial 
prescription of Parashara’s that is practical and easy to follow. The person 
should begin chanting the mantra during the bright half of the Moon on the 
day represented by the planet. For example, the Moon mantra should be 
begun on Monday. The mantras are chanted on japa beads of 108 beads per 
string. They are similar to rosaries. 


Sun Mantra- to be chanted 7,000 times: 


Japa kusuma-sankarsham kashyapeyam maha-dyutim 
tamo-rim sarva-papa-ghnam pranato ' smi divakaram 


"Let us chant the glories of the Sun God, whose beauty rivals that of a 
flower. I bow down to him, the greatly effulgent son of Kashyapa, who is 
the enemy of darkness and destroyer of all sins." 


Moon mantra- to be chanted 11,000 times: 


Dahhi-shankha-tusharabham kshirodarnava-sambhavam 
namami shashinam soman sambhor mukta-bhushanam 


"Il offer my obeisances to the Moon god, whose complexion resembles 
white cheese, the whiteness of conch shells and snow. He is the ruling deity 
of the soma-rasa born from the ocean of milk, and he serves on the ornament 
on the top of the head of Lord Shambhu." 


The Mars mantra: to be chanted 10,000 times: 


Dharani-garbha-sambhutam vidyut kanti-samaprabha 
Kumaram shakti-hastam ca mangalam pranamamy aham 


"T offer my obeisance to Shree Mangala, the god of the planet Mars, who 
was born from the womb of the earth goddess. His brilliant effulgence is like 
that of lightning, and he appears as a youth carrying a spear in his hand." 


Mercury mantra- to be chanted 4,000 times: 


Priyangava-gulikashyam rupena pratimambudam 
saumyam saumya-gunopetam tani pranamamy aham 


"I bow down to Buddha, god of the planet Mercury, whose face is like a 
fragrant globe of the priyangu herb and whose beauty matches that of a lotus 
flower. He is most gentle, possessing all attractive qualities." 


Jupiter mantra- to be chanted 19,000 times: 


Devanam ca rishinam gurun kafichana-sannibhham 
buddhi-bhutam tri-lokesham tam namami brihaspatim 


"I bow down to Brihaspati, god of the planet Jupiter. He is the spiritual 
master of all the demigods and sages. His complexion is golden, and he is 
full of intelligence. He is the controlling lord of all three worlds." 


Venus mantra- to be chanted 16,000 times: 


Hima-kunda-mrinalabham daityanam paramam gurum 
sarva-shastra-pravaktaram bhargavam pranamamy aham 


"I offer my obeisance to the descendent of Bhrigu Muni, ( ie., Venus ), 
whose complexion is white like a pond covered with ice. He is the supreme 
spiritual master of the demoniac enemies of the demigods, and has spoken to 
them all the revealed scriptures." 


Saturn mantra- to be chanted 23,000 times: 


Nilafjana-samabhasam ravi-putram yamagrajam 
chaya-martanda-sambhutam tam namami shaishcharam 


"I bow down to slow-moving Saturn, whose complexion is dark blue like 
nilanjana ointment. The elder brother of Lord Yamaraj, he is born from the 
Sun god and his wife Chaya." 


Rahu mantra- to be chanted 18,000 times: 


Ardha-kayam mahim-viryam chandraditya-vimardanam 
simhika-garbha-sambhutam tam rahum pranamamy aham 


"I offer my obeisance to Rahu, born from the womb of Simhika, who has 
only half a body yet possesses great power, being able to subdue the Sun 
and the Moon." 


Ketu mantra- to be chanted 17,000 times: 


Palasa-puspa-sankasam taraka-graha-mastakam 
raudram raudratmakam ghoram tam ketum pranamamy aham 


"I offer my obeisance to the violent and fearsome Ketu, who is endowed 
with the potency of Lord Shiva. Resembling in his complexion the flower of 
a palasa plant, he serves as the head of the stars and planets." 


Vishnu Sahasra Nama, the thousand names of Vishnu, is also prescribed as 
a remedial measure. In the present era of Kali, however, a more abbreviated 
form of the thousand names of Vishnu is recommended. (The Vedic 
literature divides time by cycles of four eras, the present one being the age of 
Kali, quarrel and hypocrisy). In the Brihat Naradiya Purana, there is a 
text that goes as follows: 


Harer Nama, Harer Nama, Harer Nama eva kevalam 
Kalau nastyeva, nastyeva, nastyeva, gatir anyata 


"Chant Hare Krishna, chant Hare Krishna, chant Hare Krishna, it is the best 
way, the best way, the best way for self realization in the age of Kali." 


When the reader reaches this point, he more than minimizes astrological 
indications. In addition, he reaches the culmination of Vedic astrology and, 
indeed, the culmination of all the Vedic literature. In the fifteenth chapter of 
the Bhagavad Gita, Shree Krishna claims: Vedaish ca sarvair aham eva 
vedyo: "By all the Vedas, I am to be known." 


In the very beginning of Parashara's Hora Shastra, the sage explains that the 
different planetary deities are but direct expansions of Vishnu. This is 
probably what Shree Krishna is referring to in the ninth chapter of 
Bhagavad Gita, twenty-third text, wherein He explains: 
ye ' py anya-devata-bhakta 
yajante shraddhayanvitah 
te pi mam eva kaunteya 
yajanty avidhi-purvakam 
"Those who are devotees of other gods and who worship them with faith 
actually worship only me, Oh son of Kunti, but they do so in a wrong way." 


So if we are going to adopt prayer as a remedial measure, instead of praying 
to the planetary deities, why not pray to Vishnu or Krishna himself, the "Adi 
Purusha," (Brahma Samhita) the original person? This same idea comes 
out in other parts of the Vedic literature. For example, in the ninth canto of 


the Bhagavat Purana, in the narration of Shree Krishna's pastime of lifting 
Govardhan Hill. At that ttme, Shree Krishna explained to his earthly father 
that instead of worshipping the demigod Indra, the same paraphernalia could 
be used to worship Him directly. 


Here is another confirmation from the second chapter, text 51, of the 
Bhagavad Gita: 

karma-jam buddhi-yukta hi 

phalam tyaktva manishina 

janma-bandha-vinirmukta 

padam gaccanty anamayam 
"By thus engaging in devotional service to the lord, great sages or devotees 
free themselves from the results of karma in the material world. In this way 
they become free from the cycle of birth and death and attain the state 
beyond all miseries." 


There are no claims made about the ability of any demigods or planetary 
deities being able to alleviate karmic reactions on this level. And to tell the 
truth, this level of karmic alleviation usually involves more than the present 
incarnation, which is what the horoscope mainly focuses on. We have 
already seen the statement from the Vedantra Sutra, in the chapter entitled 
Astrological Determinism, to the effect that, even if one attains complete 
self-realization, one's pravritta karmas must run their course. (Pravritta 
karmas are the ones we are born with, the ones in the horoscope. They are 
obligated to occur or because they have already occurred on subtle, astral 
platforms; it being only a matter of time for this karma to manifest on the 
physical plane). 


It does seem obvious that prayer and worship are tenable remedial measures 
in relation to general statements in the Vedic literature, as well as being 
indicated directly by Parashara Rishi. One has to stretch things at best to 
assign such a role to wearing jewelry. But if there is to be any minimization 
of karma, it will come through prayer and not through buying gems. It 
seems that our best bet is to face our karmic reactions with the type of 
responsible attitude shown by Arjuna at the end of the Gita and not look for 
an easy escape or try to run away, as was Arjuna's first impulse. 


Chapter Five: Intuition and Sadhana 


Intuition is important for an astrologer but it has to be properly understood. 
We may define intuition as subtle guidance from the Supersoul within. In 
the fifteenth chapter of Bhagavad Gita (text seven), Shree Krishna gives us 
an idea of how intuition works. 
Sarvasya caham hridi sanivisto 
Mattah smritir jianam apohanam ca 

"T am seated in the heart of all living entities, from me come remembrance, 
knowledge and forgetfulness." 


This is why various ancient texts stipulate that the astrologer be a religious 
person of clean habits, and that he observe some kind of " sadhana," or 
purificatory practice, such as prayer; such practice will help the astrologer to 
be receptive to instruction from the Supersoul. Actually, given the context of 
Vedic culture, it was to be understood that an astrologer was a brahmin in 
the first place, a religious priest. Some texts come right out and stipulate a 
certain behavior or lifestyle for an astrologer, for example, Prashna Marg. 
There, the author states " That person, who has mastery of this science, who 
has good knowledge of mathematics, who leads a religious life, who is 
truthful, who is free from conceit, and who is well versed in the Vedas, 
mantras and tantras, he alone may be called a seer... When even the mlechas 
and yavanas (untouchable races) who are well versed in astrology are held 
in the same esteem as rishis, who would deny respect to an astrologer who 
happens to be a brahmin?" (Texts 15 and 14 respectively, translation by Dr. 
B.V. Raman) 

A problem arises, however, when the astrologer imagines his or her hunches 
to be suggestions inspired by the Supersoul, or that some kind of divine 
intuition is working through him. Even though the astrologer tries to see the 
guiding hand of the Supersoul in everything, this is not actually possible for 
him to perceive until he becomes completely pure. Once again, Shree 
Krishna shines some light on this conundrum in the sixth chapter, seventh 
text of Bhagavad Gita. There, it is stated: 

Jitatmanah prashantasya 
Paramatma samahitaha 
Shitoshna-suka-dukeshhu 
Tatha manapamanayoh 
"For one who has conquered the mind, the Supersoul is already reached, for 


he has attained tranquility. To such a man, happiness and distress, heat and 
cold, honor and dishonor are all the same." 


In other words, were the astrologer on such a platform, that "heat and cold, 
honor and dishonor are all the same," then he would certainly be in contact 
with the Supersoul. Such an elevated astrologer could directly trust his 
hunches and feelings as something divinely inspired. Until that stage is 
attained, it is artificial for an astrologer to think that he has been inspired by 
the Supersoul to predict in such and such a way, or that the universe is 
communicating through him. 


The idea is that the astrologer tries to lead a clean life without a lot of 
distractions, and that he tries to make himself receptive to the Supersoul 
through some kind of spiritual practice. But then he has to understand that 
such guidance will come in a subtle way. For example, his attention may be 
directed to a certain planetary combination during an interpretation, or a 
certain conclusion may naturally pop into his head. But the astrologer will 
begin to over step his boundaries if he tries to recognize the hand of the 
Supersoul in an exterior way. He is probably not on such a pure platform 
yet, hardly anybody is. Until he becomes extremely pure, the pitfalls of 
rationalizations and justifications will be ever present. One good way for an 
astrologer to double check his intuition is to make sure that his feelings 
correspond to an objective, logical interpretation of the chart. Only then can 
the astrologer be sure that the interpretation is untainted by the bias of 
sentimentality and wishful thinking. 


Part II: Component Factors 
Chapter Six: The Zodiac 


The zodiac is called in Sanskrit the Kalapurusha, or time personified. It is 
also referred to as the Kalachakra, the wheel of time. Who and what is the 
Kalapurusha exactly, and what are its functions? To begin with, let us 
consider the following dialogue from The Bhagavad Gita. 


In the eleventh chapter of Gita, (verse 31), Arjuna inquires of Shree Krishna 


"Oh Lord of Lords, so fierce of form, please tell me who You are. I offer 
my obeisance to you; please be gracious unto me. You are the primal Lord. I 
want to know about you, for I do not know what Your mission is." The 
reader will recall from a previous chapter that the Supreme Person, Shree 
Krishna, answered: 
Kalo 'smi loka-kshaya-krit pravriddho lokan 

"Time I am, the great destroyer of the worlds, and I have come to engage all 
people." 


So to begin with, this is how we can understand the zodiac. It is the Form of 
Time/Kala Rupa, a direct form of the Lord as witnesses by Arjuna that has 
to do with time. So understanding the zodiac will help us to understand 
God, his will and his plans for us. Again, the zodiac measures time, and 
astrology is principally a study of time. 


There are twelve divisions of the zodiac: three signs are fiery, three are 
earthy, three are airy and three are watery. The fiery signs tend to impart a 
brave and energetic nature, the earthy signs are more practical and mundane. 
The main thrust of airy signs is intellectual, calculating and changeable, 
while the watery signs give one an emotional and caring nature. These are, 
of course, basic tendencies. One's actual nature will be determined by the 
many different permutations and combinations of planetary and zodiacal 
arrangements. The following is a list of the different signs and their 
corresponding elements: 
Fiery signs: Aries, Leo and Sagittarius 
Earthy signs: Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn 
Airy signs: Gemini, Libra and Aquarius 
Watery signs: Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces 

These twelve different divisions of the zodiac, are representative of different 
parts of the body of the Kala-Rupa, "time personified." Aries, for example, 
represents the head of the Form of Time. Taurus is his mouth and facial 
area. Gemini stands for his throat and shoulders while Cancer is 
representative of his heart and chest. Leo is the stomach of time personified, 
Virgo represents the area of the intestines, Libra the external genitalia, 
Scorpio the large intestine and anus, Sagittarius represents the thighs, 
Capricorn the knees, Aquarius stands for the calves while Pisces has 
reference to the feet of the Form of Time. 


An important thing to realize is that the coordinates of the Vedic zodiac are 
different from those of the western zodiac with which the reader is familiar. 
It is called a sidereal zodiac. This means that its coordinates are measured in 
relation to certain fixed stars. The Vedic star Revati is the principle indicator. 


This is different from the western zodiac, which is called a tropical zodiac. 
The coordinates of the tropical zodiac are measured by the movements of 
the Sun. The position of the Sun at the moment of the spring solstice marks 
the beginning of the western zodiac. The difference between the two 
amounts to about 24 degrees. This means that, for example, if one has one's 
Sun at 23 degrees Taurus by the western, tropical calculations, it will end up 
at near 29 degrees of Aries in the Vedic, sidereal zodiac. It is beyond our 
scope to examine the astronomical technicalities of the matter, just know that 
the difference does exist. The point is that the whole horoscope becomes 
plotted differently than in the western system and one's rising sign changes. 
So a person has to become accustomed to seeing himself in a different way, 
as corresponding to a different rising sign. 


This task of seeing things differently is complicated for the reader by the fact 
that Vedic astrology emphasizes the rising sign and even the Moon sign 
instead of the Sun sign (see the fifth paragraph of the chapter entitled "The 
Planets"). It is easy to know what our western Sun sign is just by knowing 
our date of birth. But to establish or Vedic horoscope, we have to perform 
the Vedic calculations for the rising sign at our moment of birth. It is not a 
matter of what month in which a person was born, because all of the signs 
of the zodiac rise on the horizon and make a complete rotation on any given 
day. And in order to make good use of this book, one should have the Vedic 
calculations handy. 


If one is already knows how to erect the western horoscope, it will be easy 
to make the conversion to the Vedic scheme, although calculating the 
planetary periods is a different matter. Our course, it is difficult to master the 
calculations if one has no previous experience at all. A tutor who already 
knows how to do the Vedic calculation would be helpful. But there is so 
much Vedic astrology software on the market nowadays that there is hardly 
any necessity of doing the calculations by hand. 


Now that some basic definitions have been covered, let us delve into the 
actual nature of the different signs of the zodiac. To a great degree, these 
descriptions will be similar to the typical descriptions of Western writers. 
But remember that the Vedic version is being described such that some 
differences might be noted. 


Aries is a fiery sign. It indicates the male sex. Two rams butting heads 
against each other represent it. Among its themes are striking and hitting. 
Even the word "krura" or fierceness is used to describe this sign. The idea is 
that birth under this sign imparts a challenging and resistant nature. This is 
important to know because this challenging nature is probably the most 
outstanding trait of Aries. It is not a passive sign, nor a particularly patient 
sign, nor a maternal sign, nor the sign of an introverted personality. And 
things like appeasement and weakness go against the grain of the Aries 
personality- remember that Aries people challenge. It is interesting in this 
regard that the lord of this sign, Mars, was considered by the Romans to be 
the god of war. Aries does belong to the warrior caste. Courage is denoted 
by Aries. 


In keeping with the basic nature of Mars, Aries makes one frank and 
straightforward in one's dealings. In Notable Horoscopes, B.V. Raman, 
India's most noted astrologer, refers to Mars as "the matter-of-fact planet." 
Mars is a planet of logic, which explains the directness of Aries. 


The fiery element of Aries also explains why those born under it are full of 
energy and dynamic. The Aries element imparts tremendous drive. This is 
why to achieve and to do are major tendencies of the Aries-born. 


This fiery nature probably accounts for a noted idiosyncrasy of Aries 
people- their good muscle tone. Hindu Predictive Astrology comments that 
Aries females "possess fairly perfect contours" (Raman, P: 92). The fiery 
metabolism imparted by Aries apparently keeps weight from accumulating. 


That Aries is the first sign of the zodiac suggests another Aries trait- 
originality. Aries has no precedents and comes from no previously 
established mold. Therefore, it is seen that the Aries-born often go out and 


generate things on their own. A pioneering spirit is present in them. They 
can initiate things. 


It naturally follows that those born under Aries are independent; the Aries 
person marks his or her own path in life. This is no doubt why the Sun finds 
his exaltation in Aries. The Sun is the king of planets; he bows his head to 
no one. He himself is the indicator of independence in any chart. So Aries, a 
sign of originality and independence, is the best sign for him. 


It goes without saying that the forceful Aries personality does not function 
well in service environments. These people just aren't tailored to be 
followers. Rather, they are commanders and leaders. They can even be 
dictatorial. 


Aries is a moveable sign, so change is not against their nature. In this regard, 
Esoteric Astrology notes that "The Aries-born would have suddenness in 
their life. Such persons do not believe in gradual changes. They take drastic 
actions and produce dramatic results " (P: 47- 48). 


As for a few more idiosyncrasies, the Aries-born have a tendency to jut their 
chins out and then even give their heads a little upwards nod. This is done 
either in an approving manner or in a questioning way. B.V. Raman refers 
to this as "craning the neck" (Raman, Hindu Predictive Astrology). 


Nalini-Kantha Dasa mentions another Aries idiosyncrasy in his book "How 
to Read Your Horoscope" (P: 111). He mentions that "They like athletics 
and exercise as a means of blowing off mental steam." Experience confirms 
these two idiosyncrasies to be true. 


Aries is a sign of short ascension and those born under it do tend to be short. 
Height is dependent on other factors, too, though, such as the planets in the 
ascendant. 


And know that Aries-people tend to receive hits on the head. This only 


makes sense because it is the head of the zodiac and represented by two 
rams butting heads with each other. Actually, the astrological justification 
for the strikes to the head couldn't be more obvious. 


Geographically, certain types of places correspond to the signs. A couple of 
examples will be given for each sign and then the reader may extend the 
same logic carefully. For example, places where sheep, rams and goats are 
found correspond to Aries; after all, the sign is symbolized by a ram. 
Therefore, mountains, cliffs, peaks and such places are indicative of the 
Aries influence because those are the kinds of places where rams live. 
Places and things typified by fire and combustion would be suggestive of 
Aries, too. Examples would be boiler rooms, kitchens and certain 
manufacturing processes. Boxing rings smack of Aries for obvious reasons. 
Places of chemistry, mines, copper, bricks, army bases and battering rams all 
correspond to Aries. Hopefully, this description will help the reader to 
recognize the Aries element in his or her surroundings. 


The second sign of the zodiac is Taurus. A good place to start in our 
description of Taurus would be with the fact that natives of this sign tend to 
be determined people. They have even been described as stubborn and 
obstinate. This tendency is definitely in keeping with the nature of the 
symbol of this sign, which is the bull. The fact that Taurus is an earthy, fixed 
sign also contributes toward their rigidity in this sense. Bulls can be, well, 
"bullish," and aren't very easy to push around. Taurus ascendants feel "as if 
they were born to exercise authority over others and, in a sense, they are 
right .... They generally resemble the bull in their behavior towards new 
people if they are not listened to properly" (Hindu Predictive Astrology, P: 
92). This obstinate stand of the Taurus Ian is really one of the main features 
of the sign. To gain a good understanding of this sign, it is necessary to 
incorporate this characteristic. In our own humble experience, it just doesn't 
seem to occur to Taurus people that they can be wrong. They're not good at 
compromising, diplomacy or dealing with the delicate nature of people's 
feelings. They are rather clumsy in this regard and tend to step on other 
people's feet, so to speak. Even if by force of argument one convinces a 
Taurus ascendant to compromise and to meet one halfway, Taurus people 
seem to do so more because it is expected of them and not because they 
have any new understandings. Even though Taurus is a feminine sign, its 
fixed and stubborn outlook rules out any kind of pliable or flexible nature. 


Dr. Raman also notes that Taurus ascendants "are slow to anger, but when 
provoked, furious like the bull ". Endurance is another quality of theirs 
which may also corresponds to the bull symbol. 


Nalini-Kantha defines Taurus people as having a "sensual and artistic 
nature". This makes sense because Venus is the lord of this sign and Venus 
is the planet of art, music, beauty, luxury, theater, acting, dance, harmony, 
perfumes, incense, essential oils, comforts and such. This sensual side is 
actually confirmed by the bull symbol. Since bulls are connected to breeding 
and sexual activity it is only natural that the sign they symbolize 
comprehend such a facet. Experience overwhelmingly confirms that Taurus 
ascendants are disposed of a sensual orientation. 


Taurus is considered a domestic sign. In predictive astrology, the second 
house is related to family and even marriage. This is well substantiated in the 
ancient texts. Maybe this is why Taurus, as the second sign of the zodiac, 
has such a domestic orientation. Remember that Venus is the lord of this 
sign. Venus is the natural indicator of one's love life, marriage and married 
partner. The venusian ownership of Taurus also suggests the domestic and 
comfort-loving nature of this sign. 


As such, it is understood that Taurus inclines one towards pravritti marg, the 
worldly path. The Taurus individual would be inclined to worship God from 
a home environment. The Taurus way would generally be to dovetail his 
comfort-loving instincts to a religious life. You don't usually think of Taurus 
people as renunciates or monks. 


Another recognizable trait is that the sign Taurus imparts what Bepin Behari 
calls "one-pointed concentration" (Esoteric Astrology, P: 58). They do 
seem to focus on things in a singular, narrowly defined type of mode. This is 
different from, say, the Gemini individual who generally has several things 
going at the same time or runs from one to another without finishing. 


In terms of bodily features, Taurus ascendants usually have a stocky build. 
This is so apparent that one can usually pick out who is born under Taurus 


just by looking at the squareness of their build. In addition, the Taurus-born 
usually have rather full lips. 


To understand the type of places which corresponds to Taurus one simply 
has to recall that Taurus is represented by a bull. So places where cattle are 
found naturally correspond to Taurus. "Pastoral and cultivated fields" are 
how Hindu Predictive Astrology phrases it. Dairy farming corresponds to 
Taurus par excellence. Shree Krishna was born under Taurus so it is no 
surprise that he sported as a cowherd boy. Of course, nowadays, most 
people don't live on dairy farms. But, as we have already mentioned, Taurus 
is very much indicative of domestic life, comforts and furniture, as well as 
the color white. Perhaps this will help the reader to recognize Taurusian 
environments. 


We will end this section on the sign Taurus by quoting, once again, B.V. 
Raman, whose astrological comments are always fraught with significance. 
In Notable Horoscopes, Dr. Raman says that "steadiness in independence, 
consciousness and pride of power" are intrinsic to this sign. These words are 
very indicative of the Taurus individual. 


Gemini is the third sign of the zodiac. This is a dual sign represented by a 
man and a woman holding hands with each other. The man holds a mace 
while the woman carries a stringed instrument. There are several 
understandings about the sign which we may abstract from this symbol, one 
of which is duality. Oscillation is a basic quality of Gemini- Gemini 
ascendants go back and forth from one extreme to the other. Practically 
speaking, this tendency can manifest as a "wavering mind, making one the 
proverbial jack of all trades, master of none" (B.V. Raman). Bepin Behari 
mentions "conflict and instability" in relation to this sign (Esoteric 
Astrology). The easily agitated, even tipsy mental platform of the Gemini as 
well as the sudden breakdowns have been well documented. They seem to 
careen from one point of focus to the other. Mr. Behari has also coined the 
phrase "differentiation in unity." And that is the key- the idea behind Gemini 
is that of a single unit composed of polarized parts. It is interesting to note 
that even the two main stars that comprise this constellation are binary stars 
(Castor and Pollux). Once again, division within unity is the idea. Geminis 
are known for doing two things at a time. 


Another justification for the dual nature of Gemini stems from the fact that 
Mercury is the lord of this sign. Mercury is the planet which stands for the 
nervous system. This ownership goes a long way towards explaining why 
Gemini ascendants have such an impulsive and quicksilver nature. It would 
also explain why they get emotionally undone at times. 


In spite of its dual nature, Gemini is a masculine sign. The mace of the 
symbol indicates the masculine temperament. 


Thus, variety and change correspond to Gemini. It is an active and vivacious 
sign. Those born under it love excitement "Carefree, joyous and versatile" is 
how Raman describes them. People born under Gemini just seem to have a 
bubbly enthusiasm about them. 


Something else to be abstracted from the symbol is the sensuous nature of 
the sign. After all, this symbol doesn't just represent human unity; it stands 
for unity between man and woman. The wavering and impulsive nature of 
Gemini gives it a flirtatious element. 


Gemini is an airy, hence intellectual sign. Even its lord, Mercury, is the 
planet of the rational intellect. Hence Gemini is related to writing skills, 
reading, poetry, music, science, grammar, codes, computer programming 
and any type of endeavor that involves the abstractive intelligence. Not only 
does Gemini impart an intellectual nature, but those born under it tend to be 
quick witted; the rapid and impulsive nature of Mercury seems to carry over. 
In accordance to the actual planetary arrangements, this basic Gemini urge 
to use their minds may manifest along any of the above-mentioned lines; 
how it actually does so is not the point at this moment. The point is that 
Gemini is intellectual and abstractive. 


This is the only sign of the zodiac which contains a musical instrument as a 
part of its symbol. This certainly confirms the basic Gemini instinct for 
music, poetry and the arts. Writers and poets galore have shown a strong 
Gemini element in their charts in one way or another; especially when 
Gemini is occupied by the artistic and poetic planet, Venus. For Gemini to 


channel results along scientific lines one would expect the influence of Mars 
somehow, for example, by aspect or occupation of the sign. Mars is a frank 
and logical planet, as the scientific outlook is supposed to be. When Mars, or 
Mercury itself influence this sign, a tendency to work with facts and figures 
is seen. 


Physically, there is a pronounced tendency towards sunken eye sockets and 
snubbed noses. 


Places which relate to Gemini are parks, playgrounds, libraries, art 
museums, musical stages, cinemas, theaters, brothels, casinos, stock markets 
and commercial environments, especially ones where dealing and 
bargaining goes on. Gemini is strongly suggestive of urban environments. 


Lastly, know that the caste of Gemini is mercantile. Gemini imparts a basic 
business instinct. As an impulsive masculine sign, Gemini conjures up the 
image of a hard-hitting, fast-talking salesman. 


Cancer is the fourth sign of the zodiac. We already know that it's a watery 
sign. The watery signs impart an emotional, caring nature. The lord of this 
sign, the Moon, is the natural indicator of one's feelings and emotions. So 
these words, "feelings and emotions," have special meaning for the sign 
Cancer. 


Cancer is also a sign of maternal instincts. This is because in Vedic 
astrology, the fourth house is the house of mothers. Notice that Cancer is the 
fourth sign. In addition, the Moon is the very planet of motherhood and 
maternal feelings. (the Moon is Cancer's lord). So for these reasons Cancer 
partakes of maternal instincts and a nurturing nature. This only makes sense 
since the Moon represents such things as milk and a mother's breasts. 


The Moon's influence can be seen in other ways. The typical lunar qualities 
are softness, gracefulness, sincerity and emotionalism along with the 
maternal ones. And the Moon is the planet of the emotions. It is this lunar 
nature of Cancer that seems to produce a person who is easy-going, 


romantic, caring, meditative and gracious. In keeping with the nature of the 
Moon, Cancer people are generally emotionally tranquil; they are active on 
the mental platform and have a tendency to slip into daydreaming. 


The opposite side of the coin is that when the Moon is afflicted, or when 
turbulent planetary combinations afflict this sign, emotions are all but 
tranquil. And this situation points out a truth about all signs- they all have 
positive and negative attributes. These different attributes tend to manifest 
more in this way or that way in relation to the planetary influences that come 
to bear on the sign. There is a natural dichotomy in this sense and, as we go 
through our analysis of the zodiac, we will try to point out to the reader just 
how this is so. 


Cancer is, of course, a brahminical sign. The brahmins of the Vedic era 
were the professional class. What are today doctors, lawyers, teachers, 
advisors, counselors, psychologists, financial advisors, and bankers were 
brahmins in Vedic society. Of course, this understanding can be a little 
exterior. One of the basic ideas of being a brahmin is that one is an advice- 
giver. That's why the brahmins were the teachers and astrologers of their 
society. Active administration was carried out by the kshatriyas, the warrior 
caste. The vaishyas (merchant class) were involved in business and trade 
while the sudra caste dedicated itself to labor. It is just uncanny, and a tribute 
to Vedic astrology, the way that Cancer naturally imparts the nature of a 
guide, helper, and teacher to a person. Esoteric Astrology (Behari, P: 77) 
sums it up nicely by saying "As a politician the Cancer-born becomes a 
king-maker rather than a king; as a sportsman he is the coach rather than the 
player, as a teacher he is more of a guide rather than a bully." 


Cancer reflects brahminical qualities in other ways, too. In the eighteenth 
chapter of Bhagavad Gita, Krishna himself points out what some of them 
are. In the forty-second verse of that chapter, Krishna mentions the Sanskrit 
words sama, saucham, and kshantir in relation to brahminical dharmas. They 
mean peacefulness, purity and tolerance, respectively. And these attributes 
really do seem to be natural qualities of the sign Cancer. The word soumya 
or "gentleness" is often mentioned in relation to Cancer. 


It's noteworthy that the Vedic constellation Pushyami lies within this sign of 


the zodiac. In Latin it is known as Cancri. Pushyami is known for imparting 
the nature of a teacher or advisor to those born under it. The adi devata of 
Pushyami is Brihaspati, a celestial brahmin and the teacher of the gods; 
wisdom and thoughtfulness are ascribed to it. This constellation must be the 
very source of the love that the Cancer-born have for teaching and guiding 
others. 


That Cancer is a watery sign tends to make those born under it rather 
adaptable. This simply makes sense because water itself is so adaptable. 
Water has no fixed shape. It has no odor or color and is, in fact a transparent 
medium. It adapts itself to the shape of its container. This expression of the 
watery essence of Cancer has been well described as follows: "Water is 
formless, colorless, and so is Cancer. According to the society and 
environment in which the individual has been placed, the basic nature is 
determined... This does not suggest them to be without likes and 
preferences." (Esoteric Astrology, P: 76) 


Of course, there are other watery signs such as Scorpio. But Scorpio is a 
fixed sign and hence rather rigid. And the lord of Scorpio is the fiery Mars. 
The lord of Cancer is the soft moon. It is a moveable sign, too- all this 
makes it easy-going and flexible in a way that other watery signs don’t 
match. To sum it up in everyday words, it just seems that the Cancer-born 
are genuinely able to see validity from various angles of view. It's not that 
they have no definition themselves, it's just that they're so flexible. 


This adaptable nature of the Cancer person is also pointed out by the fact 
that many species of crabs camouflage themselves by reflecting the color of 
their surroundings like chameleons, and that the symbol of Cancer is the 
crab. 


The crab symbol tells us a lot about the nature of the Cancer-born 
personality. Crabs are shy and sensitive and, other things notwithstanding, 
so are Cancer people. If one no more than approaches a crab, it goes 
skittering away to burrow in the sand. So Cancers are sensitive. 


This is different than, for example, a Leo ascendant. Leo the lion struts 


royally through the jungle. They are bold and straightforward. On the other 
hand, a crab never moves in a straight line. It always moves cautiously 
backwards, and even then off to an angle. This shy, sensitive and even 
cautious nature of a crab is distinctly manifested in those born under Cancer, 
the sign of the crab. 


The feminine nature of Cancer merits some attention. Esoteric Astrology 
states that the "female principle" functions as a vehicle of male projection. 
He goes on to affirm that "The Cancer-born would be found to play the role 
of vehicle and, as such, these people would surrender themselves to the 
circumstances and let events mold them. They do not wish to generally exert 
their own influence. Rather, they want to be influenced by the circumstances 
" (P: 76). This trait is very true of the Cancer personality and if one wishes 
to acquire a functional understanding of this sign, this trait will have to be 
recognized and observed. 


The danger is that if the Cancer-born sits back in a reactive mode the 
opportunity to go out and be a mover of events may pass him by. So often it 
seems that the Cancer personality will wait for things to happen, as if 
awaiting a sign from God or the like. The rabbit would do better to at least 
run rather than closing its eyes and freezing at the sight of the hunter- the 
Cancer-born may take a lesson from this analogy. Unless otherwise 
energized by the planets, the Cancer people just don't have the tendency to 
go out impose themselves or generate activities like a person born under a 
fiery or masculine sign would. 


A comparison with Scorpio, another feminine, watery sign, is instructive. 
The passiveness is more evident in the case of Cancer than in Scorpio. This 
is probably due to the fixed nature of Scorpio, as we have already pointed 
out. It would also be due to the hot and resistant nature of Scorpio imparted 
by its lord, the fiery Mars. 


The typical marriage karma of the Cancer born is also worth noting. In more 
than one ancient text, it is noted that they tend to be unhappy and even 
unlucky in regards to marriage. This tendency arises from the fact that 
Saturn owns the house of marriage from Cancer. Saturn is a planet of a very 
different nature than the lord of Cancer, the Moon. While the Moon is a soft 


and sensitive planet, Satur is hard, rigid, constrictive, and generally 
negative. The influence of Saturn over this important factor, indicative of 
marriage and partnerships, tends to color relationships in this way. 


It is a feeling of suffocation brought on by Saturn that makes the Cancer 
person skittish about marriage. Deep inside, they feel threatened or 
imprisoned by marriage; they are ready to bolt and run at any moment even 
if they spend a long time being married. This is one reason they tend to 
marry late in life. Also, Saturn is the planet of time and delay, so his 
influence over the marriage house accounts for this, combined with the 
workings of the skittish Cancer mind. 


Speaking of the workings of the Cancer ascendant’s mind, they react to 
marriage on a mental platform in another way. Typically, they allow their 
sensitivity to get out of hand. This occurs pretty much in proportion to how 
threatened they feel. They make mountains out of molehills and, in one way 
or another, invent reasons to run away from the chains of marriage, just as 
the crab leaves its home in the water to hide away in the sand. The mental 
breakdown can be so acute that Bepin Behari goes as far as to say that, as 
marriage partners, Cancer people "are often suitable subjects for a careful 
psychological analysis." 


It is safe to say that the places which correspond to Cancer are watery 
places, specifically places where crustaceans dwell. Marshes, sandy 
riverbanks, bays, canals and reservoirs all correspond to Cancer. Rice fields 
are indicated by Cancer. Places of sandy soil are indicated by Cancer. It is 
interesting to note that Dr. Raman, in Hindu Predictive Astrology, notes 
that the country Holland corresponds to Cancer (Raman, P: 268). Holland is 
a country of canals and much of its land mass is sandy because it has been 
recovered from the sea. Places where psychology is practiced, where milk is 
somehow or other involved, and nurseries for newborns also correspond to 
Cancer. 


A study of the sign Leo brings us back to the fiery signs. Within the zodiac 
there are four mini-cycles which repeat themselves, so to speak. Aries is 
fiery, Taurus is earthy, Gemini is airy, Cancer is watery and Leo begins the 
cycle again as a fiery sign. The next and last fiery sign will be Sagittarius. 


Thus there are three signs corresponding to each element. 


Because Leo is a fiery sign, we can say right away that people born under 
this sign will be energetic, ambitious, and will have a commanding nature. 
The symbol of Leo is the lion, so birth under this sign naturally gives a bold 
and forceful personality. Leos hold their heads high and seem to have a 
rather majestic way about them. 


The Sun’s ownership over this sign is also a key to understanding its nature. 
The Sun is known in the Vedas as Surya, Ravi and Savitur; actually, he has 
many names but these are the most prominent. He is depicted as a chivalrous 
warrior (kshatriya in Sanskrit) and a king. Now, the positive qualities of a 
warrior king are along the lines of nobility, dignity, honor and pride. These 
solar qualities begin to give us an idea of the Leo makeup. Those born under 
Leo have a strong sense of duty and loyalty, just as one might expect from a 
royal personality. 


But it would be inaccurate to think that all Leos are evolved souls such that 
only the highest qualities of the sign's nature will be manifest. A regular 
cross-section of Leo ascendants exists such that some are saints while some 
are sinners, just as with any sign. In the same way that the above-mentioned 
desirable qualities correspond to Leo, the Leo-born may also become 
autocratic and dictatorial. Under unfavorable planetary combinations, the 
Leo element may even produce a severe personality who is tactless and 
blunt. These are also Leo qualities, but they're on the opposite side of the 
coin. 


To understand this dichotomy better, let us take the Leo pride as an 
example. It is nice to say that Leo's are proud because pride can be a 
wonderful quality. A proud person obviously takes pride in his work and 
honors his word. But not all pride is healthy. Sometimes pride can manifest 
as arrogance. Arrogance is a tamasic (ignorant) concept of pride. Saturn is 
the planet that corresponds to this element, which is why when Saturn or 
Rahu influence the sign Leo, one tends to have an arrogant streak. Even 
when the noble Sun occupies a sign of Saturn, such as Capricom, this same 
perversion of the solar pride takes place. (Other combinations 
notwithstanding) The point is that, although the solar qualities of the Leo- 


born are admirable, their royal ego can have a negative manifestation. This 
all depends, of course, on the specific planetary arrangements in each chart. 
All signs in this sense offer some kind of basic nature which has both a 
positive as well as negative side. It is the planetary dispositions which 
determine which side will manifest. 


Leos are good organizers and administrators. This makes sense if one 
remembers that the Sun, as the king of planets, is concerned with 
administration and organization. Therefore, these talents correspond to the 
Sun's sign, Leo. 


Birth under Leo produces powerful rulers because it is a masculine, fiery 
sign. Wielding authority and giving orders comes naturally to these people. 
Leos exhibit leadership. 


Originality is another attribute which may be logically linked to Leo via its 
lord the Sun. The Sun is certainly original as it is the very source of life in 
the solar system. 


Another name of Leo in Sanskrit is "Prajapati" Reference is made by this 
title to the demigods known as the Prajapatis who were progenitors of 
mankind. They are mentioned in the Puranas. So the idea of progeny is also 
one of the themes of this sign. This just makes sense because the Sun is the 
planet of creation and generation. It is interesting to note that the fifth house 
in Vedic astrology is the house of offspring. So as the fifth sign Leo is also 
indicative in terms of progeny and creativity in general. 


Because the Sun is related to progeny and creation, he is also the "karaka," 
or natural indicator of fatherhood. The generous, protective instincts of the 
Sun as a ruler are easily transferable to the concept of the Sun as a paternal 
figure, so fatherhood is another chief aspect of this sign. 


Another quality of this sign which has a natural correspondence to the Sun 
is independence. The Sun, as a warrior king, is certainly independent. By 
way of negative definition, we may state that Leos don't shine well in 


subservient positions; it goes against the grain of the solar ego. 


Esoteric Astrology, (Behari, P: 89) points out an idiosyncrasy of Leo 
which experience has shown to be very prominent in Leos. Mr. Behari says: 
"One supreme quality of Leo is suddenness....Therefore, we may find Leo- 
people succeeding in sudden, aggressive and instantaneous frontal attacks." 
Nothing could be truer. Just when one thinks that a Leo is on the run, maybe 
in a discussion or something of that sort, it is typical of the Leos that they 
will suddenly lance some type of counter-logic that throws one off balance. 


By using the word "frontal" Mr. Behari shows a good understanding of this 
sign. Leos are very straightforward. They have been invariably described as 
candid, frank and outspoken, and they are. They'll tell one what they think 
or they'll at least drop an obvious innuendo that's about as subtle as a ton of 
bricks. They'll even look one in the eye while doing so. 


Marriage-wise, Leos have a difficulty similar to the one outlined in relation 
to Cancer. Saturn owns the house of marriage and is inimical to the Sun, 
Leo's lord. Since Saturn is a planet of constriction and limitation, marriage 
often becomes an obligation in the life of the Leo. The dictatorial Leo ego 
doesn't help much with regards to marriage, either. Often they end up 
honoring the marriage bond out of their sense of loyalty and duty. They also 
seem to unconsciously look for a compliant marriage partner who will be 
compatible with their temperament. 


A typical place represented by Leo are deep forests and jungles, especially 
ones where lions roam. Others are forts, palaces, throne rooms, 
governmental buildings, hospitals, power plants, where glass is 
manufactured, where gold is stored and where medicines are produced. Just 
to give an idea of how the ancient dictums can be applied to modern life, the 
following is instructive. When the author was a child, the major planetary 
period of Jupiter operated practically throughout. Jupiter was in Leo. The 
author’s childhood was spent at the edge of a large metropolitan city where 
there was a large, wooded area nearby, many miles square. So although the 
author did not spend his childhood in a jungle or deep forest where tigers 
and lions roamed, he did actually spend his youthful days playing in the 
middle of a forest; and in the company of dogs at that, which are the same 


species as lions. 


Virgo is a feminine sign represented by a virgin in the prow of a boat. She 
carries a bundle of grains in one hand and a torch in the other. This symbol 
is very indicative of the main thrusts of this sign. The virgin symbol suggests 
maternal, caring instincts. After all, it is not as if the virgin comes with 
weapons in her hand. Rather, she brings nourishing grains and the warmth 
of fire. She is obviously in a giving mode. No wonder the Virgo-born are 
known for sacrifice and altruism. This basic nature of theirs cannot be 
stressed enough. It is the main trait of the Virgos. 


By definition the Virgos tend to exteriorize themselves. This is different 
from, say, the Scorpio ascendants. The Scorpio element is private, sensitive 
and even touchy. The life of the Scorpio is either more or less self-centered 
because it centers around its own sensitivity. But Virgo people go outside of 
their immediate boundaries and extend themselves. The Sagittarius element 
also exteriorizes, but in order to control and impose their will. The Virgo 
element is different, they exteriorize because they care about others. 


John Lennon's chart makes a good example of the altruistic and maternal 
side of Virgo. Of course, John's chart had two fiery planets in the ascendant, 
Mars and the Sun, so he was a bit aggressive. But in spite of this, his 
concern for social causes very strongly shone through as a major facet of his 
personality. At various times he championed such causes as peace in Viet 
Nam, women's liberation, vegetarianism, and democracy (Power to the 
People). He spent the last years of his life, in fact, in a rather maternal mode. 
He dedicated a lot of time to baking bread and paid a lot of attention to his 
son Sean. 


The fact that the virgin of the symbol is traveling over water in a boat, the 
way being illuminated by her torch, suggests that she is searching, or on 
some kind of a quest. This alludes to the curious nature of the Virgo 
ascendant, which is also confirmed by the lordship of Mercury over this 
sign. That Mercury imparts curiosity is well known in astrological circles. 
And, of course, the torch relates to illumination which manifests in this 
analogy as a thirst for learning, which is something the Virgos are known 
for having. 


This makes sense in another way- notice that the two signs of Mercury, 
Gemini and Virgo, are both symbolized by human beings. Thus Virgo 
suggests intellectual abilities, in spite of the fact that it is an earthy (sudra) 
sign. Abstractive intelligence, the ability to understand through symbols, is 
particular to the human species. 


The abstractive, intellectual abilities of the Virgo-bom find expression in 
various ways. The influence of Mars and Mercury over this sign typically 
manifests along the lines of hard science, such as chemistry, physics, and 
engineering. Architecture may also manifest through the Virgo element. 


Hindu Predictive Astrology mentions that Virgos have "good taste in art 
and literature." (Raman, P: 96) Venus, the planet of artistic abilities, is the 
owner of good houses from Virgo. This suggests that those born under 
Virgo have a Venusian knack and that they may be lucky developing such 
karma (planetary combinations permitting). 


We will refer to John Lennon's chart again because his chart is very 
representative of the artistic side of Virgo. Remember that the Sun is the 
planet of generation- John's sun sign was also Virgo. Virgo is a literary sign 
such that the Sun in Virgo gave him the ability to generate and compose not 
only nice music, but poetic lyrics as well. 


In Astrology and Jyotirvidya, author Visvanath Dev Sharma sums up the 
Virgo element as "expression through representation." In other words, 
Sharma is referring to skillfulness. The Virgo-born may express themselves 
through poetry, art, music painting. In the more everyday charts the Virgo 
skillfulness manifests as craftsmanship, engineering, or by office work such 
as typing, record keeping, bookkeeping, filing and computer work. This all 
depends, of course, on the particular planetary arrangement of a given chart. 
The point is that the Virgo-born is an intelligent, curious person who 
expresses himself in some sort of skillful and usually technical way, while 
understanding the world around him in a pensive manner. 


How to Judge Your Horoscope mentions that: "Experience shows them to 
be great lovers of nature" (Nalini-Kantha, P: 116). Since Virgo is an earthy 
and perceptive sign, this is natural. 


Geographically, meadows and grassy plains are places which correspond to 
Virgo, as well as banks, financial institutions, art museums, libraries, and 
gambling houses. 


Notable Horoscopes (P - 275) of B.V. Raman says the following: "Virgo 

or Kanya is a sign of quick perception. This makes the native modest, 
contemplative, prudent, thrifty and cautious, sometimes rather undecided but 
usually precise, though nervous and lacking self-confidence, perceptive, and 
somewhat intuitive." 


The seventh sign of the zodiac is Libra. It is a moveable, airy sign, so 
natives of this sign tend to be rather flexible. The personality of the Libra- 
born is many-faceted. They like change and travel. 


This is a sign which corresponds to the "vaishya" or mercantile caste. It is 
represented by a man holding a scale in the form of a balance. Bazaars and 
shopping areas, nurseries, airports, racetracks, and places of gambling 
correspond to it, too. A spirit for doing business is imparted to one born 
under Libra. 


The symbol of a scale points out an important aspect of this sign- that they 
"crave equanimity and balance" (Behari, Esoteric Astrology, P: 109). Libra 
is the halfway point around the zodiac, the fulcrum. Democracy and equality 
have invariably been associated with this sign. How interesting that Saturn, 
the planet of the working class and masses, finds his exaltation here. The 
average man is interested in "one man, one vote." On the other hand, the 
Sun is a planet of aristocracy, royalty and such. It doesn't seem that 
democratic themes are too appealing to the Sun, which is probably why he 
becomes debilitated in the sign Libra. As a sign of balance, it naturally 
follows that Libras love honesty, truth, justice and fair play. 


But not all is equanimity and balance with the Libras. In this material world, 
the normal state of affairs is anything but balanced. The balance symbol just 
serves to point out their sensitivity. They are quite aware of impacts which 
upset the balance of things. The upshot is that the Libra-born often find 
themselves in the middle of some kind of conflict. It seems as if they spend 
more time craving equanimity than actually experiencing it. 


A classic example of a chart of Libra rising would be Mahatma Gandhi's. 
He preached non-violent protest and "ahimsa," which is the Sanskrit word 
for non-violence. The Buddha Avatar had the Moon, the indicator of the 
mind, in Libra. Ahimsa was one of the pillars of his preaching. 


Adolf Hitler is another classic example of a Libra-ascendant, but one whose 
balance was disturbed. His chart also exhibits another typical Libra trait 
which was summed up by Bepin Behari in Esoteric Astrology such that 
Libras "zealously impose their views upon others." This has been well 
documented in astrological circles and a minimum of experience bears this 
truth out as well. Anyway, Mr. Behari's comment is so appropriate that it 
requires no real elaboration. 


Venus is the lord of this sign, which is why Libra ascendants have an artistic 
and musical nature. The Venusian connection gives a touch of sophistication 
and refinement. 


Scorpio is the next sign of the zodiac. It is a watery sign represented by a 
scorpion. This may appear to be a bit of a contradiction because scorpions 
are only found on dry land, for example, in deserts. However, in the 
Smithsonian Institute's Museum of Natural History there is a fossil hundreds 
of thousands of years old, if not more, of an aquatic scorpion. It is very clear 
that the scorpion had a type of fish tail. So there is really no contradiction at 
all that Scorpio is a watery sign represented by a scorpion. 


As a watery sign, Scorpio will, of course, impart an emotional and caring 
nature. Scorpios are warm-hearted and are people with a lot of feeling. But 
this sign is a bit different than the other watery signs in that it is a sign of hot 
temperament. After all, there are such things as boiling springs and warm 


seas in nature, so there has to be some kind of astrological correspondence. 
And not every feminine mindset is passive and pliable (Scorpio is feminine). 
A substantial percentage of the women in the world have a side to them 
which is capable of resistance and putting up a good fight. Again, this reality 
has to have astrological correspondence and, in Scorpio, it does. 


Scorpio is a fixed sign, so those born under it will have an inflexible element 
to them. This, coupled with the Martian ownership of the sign, makes 
Scorpio a rather resistant sign. Scorpio is the more introverted sign of Mars 
while Aries, represented by two rams charging at each other, is the 
challenging, extroverted sign. 


Just as with the other signs, the symbol of this one can give us a good idea 
of the sign itself. Scorpions are rather sensitive and touchy. There is no 
caressing or petting a scorpion as with a domestic pet. Any touch will elicit 
an immediate reptilian sting. In fact, scorpions are known to be self-stinging 
and, after mating, the female stings the male. This behavior of the scorpion 
suggests that people born under Scorpio can be too sensitive for their own 
good. Their sensitivity also gives them a revengeful element. (The Scorpio- 
ascendant nature is to be “destructive” towards those that have “soft” 
relationships with them; Bepin Behari, Astrological Biographies, Page 46.) 


(The word "krura" (cruel) is used to describe this sign of Mars as it is with 
Aries. In fact, Scorpios can be quite angry and dictatorial.) 


The sensitive and touchy side of scorpions makes them loners, too. A typical 
observation in this connection is that scorpions don't live in any kind of 
social or familial group. Rather than traveling in any kind of pack or herd, 
they live alone. Places such as holes in the ground, dark corners, nooks, 
crannies, and crevices are their typical habitat. This idea of being a loner 
definitely carries over from symbol to sign. Leos, for example, may thrive 
on attention and the limelight, but Scorpio ascendants are rather private. 
Although all Scorpio ascendants don't have the luxury of living a reclusive 
life, people born under this sign do seem to favor places such as basement 
rooms or maybe a portioned corner of an office, some place apart. This 
liking for privacy gives a secretive element to Scorpios. 


A very interesting comment was made in Hindu Predictive Astrology 
about this sign. Dr. Raman says "Even females born under this sign will 
have more of masculine tendencies." Just a little experience shows this to be 
quite true. Even though Scorpio is a feminine sign, its lordship by Mars is no 
doubt responsible for this. 


Some attribute the Scorpio interest in occult studies to the secretive nature of 
the sign. It could, however, be due as much to the reptilian nature of the 
symbol. Reptiles are known for hypnosis, trances, meditation and as mystic 
creatures. 


The Scorpio born are observed to be quite the sense gratifiers. Their mode 
of gratification right up to satiety seems to smack of Roman Holidays. Their 
sexual appetite has been described as "beastly" in Esoteric Astrology (P: 
122). 


Besides the habitats of scorpions mentioned above, the sign Scorpio 
corresponds to places such as tunnels, wells, crevices, caves and mines. 
Basements are a more everyday type of place which is typical of the Scorpio 
element. When the author entered the planetary sub period of a planet in 
Scorpio, he moved into the basement bedroom suite of his house, which was 
very private. It was a very nice bedroom, but it certainly smacked of 
Scorpio. Finally, extractive industries correspond to Scorpio; as also naval 
bases, submarine pens, vaults and kitchens. 


Sagittarius is the ninth sign of the zodiac. It is a fiery sign of warrior caste. 
So the energetic personality and commanding nature will be present, as with 
all fiery signs. 


This sign, however, is symbolized by an archer who points his arrow 
upward. The symbol suggests that any theme that has to do with projecting, 
throwing, lancing, driving force, ballistics, hurling or propelling would have 
reference to Sagittarius. 


The ambitious nature of the Sagittarian is also suggested by the archer 
symbol. They are achievement-oriented and actually enjoy power. The fact 
that the archer points his arrow high also tells us that Sagittarians project 
themselves. They are not private like the Scorpio ascendants and they don't 
want to get away from it all like the Cancer-born. People born under this 
sign tend to take charge of things and make their mark on the world around 
them. They push their agendas across. 


In this regard, it is interesting that B.V. Raman indicates that Spain is a 
country which is characterized by Sagittarius in Hindu Predictive 
Astrology. (At least Northern Spain).Now, what is Spain known for? It has 
fame as a country which first discovered America. Others followed later, but 
Spain was the first to "project" itself, so to speak. 


We may also conclude from the archer symbol that the Sagittarius-born is a 
straightforward personality. Observation shows them to be very direct about 
things. Raman mentions that they are "free from hypocrisy,” which is 
basically another way of saying straightforward. Their Sagittarian directness 
makes them rather honest, (planetary influences notwithstanding). They 
don't hide their intentions, but they are formidable anyway because they just 
come straight out and overwhelm one. 


Another reason for the Sagittarian honesty would have to do with the fact 
that the lord of this sign is Brihaspati (Jupiter), the priest of Indra and the 
gods. Jupiter stands for religion, dharma, and spiritual understanding. Both 
of Jupiter's sign's are rather pious. But Pisces is the placid, priestly sign 
characterized by sweetness and caring, while Sagittarius is a pious-warrior 
type. Maybe this Jovian influence also accounts for the conservative and 
conventional streak in Sagittarians. 


But although Sagittarians are usually oriented towards positive goals and 
operate through approved-of means, there is a rough side to this sign. 
Remember that it is a dual sign, meaning that there are two basic tendencies 
to those born under it: the hinder part of this sign is represented by a beast, 
the horse. Therefore, when afflicted, the opposite side of the coin has a 
downside, such that one born under it can become blunt, tactless, 
aggressive, and warlike, and may practice some kind of perverted morality. 


A good example might be The Crusades, when so-called Christian warriors 
practiced butchery in the name of religion. 


The fact that this is a dual sign, combining attributes of both moveable and 
fixed signs, suggests the Sagittartus-born to be rather versatile. 


Raman also brands them as being "hasty" in speech such that they become 
misunderstood. This is very true. They seem to interject so much that a 
conversation becomes awkward and they become misinterpreted as being 
aggressive. Keeping this sign's symbol in mind it makes sense to say that 
Sagittarians are "fiery projectors" in essence, and that this is even born out in 
their mode of speech. 


That Sagittarius is the ninth sign of the zodiac merits some attention. Both 
the ninth and fifth signs/houses have something in common- they are trinal 
houses. In all the classic astrological literature the trinal places have been 
defined as places of purva-punya and purva-karma. These words refer to 
pious activities and credits from previous lives. The way in which these 
houses/signs give their results is different from others. These places give 
results that do not seem to come about as a result of some action that one has 
put into motion. 


Their typical results manifest differently from, for example, tenth house 
results. The tenth is the karma-stan, the house of actions. The results that this 
house gives come in relation to one's own work and effort. Another negative 
definition is provided by Saturn, which is the planet of labor- Saturn’s 
results also definitely manifest in relation to one's effort. 


Contrary to this tendency, the way in which trinal houses and signs give out 
rewards or afflictions may be exemplified through the following examples. 
The fifth house is the house of children. One seems to receive this karma in 
life almost as a passive recipient. One cannot pick or choose, really, what 
kind of child one wishes to be blessed with. As an opposite illustration, let's 
say that the lord of the fourth house, the house of property, occupies the 
tenth. This would suggest that, through one's own efforts, one would 
acquire a house, since the fourth relates to property and the tenth to one's 


own work. Now, if Mars were the fourth lord, one might even construct a 
red brick house because Mars is the planet of bricks and indicates the color 
red. Were Saturn the fourth lord, then by one's own labor one might 
construct a house with stonework because Saturn represents stones and 
masonry. But in relation to offspring karma, one pretty much has to accept 
what comes as a result of past karmas. 


It is the same with the other trinal house, the ninth house. The ninth is the 
house of luck and fortune. One way in which its results might be seen is in 
relation to gambling. One man purchases a lottery ticket and wins nothing. 
The next man buys one and wins a million dollars. Neither one was able to 
influence the outcome by his own efforts. It seemed to be up to lady luck, 
but the results actually came as a result of prior actions. 


Similarly, good and bad results seem to manifest of their own accord in the 
lives of the Sagittarius-born because Sagittarius is the ninth sign. The point 
is that Sagittarians are inclined to experience a life subjective to past karmas, 
not unencumbered and completely free to generate anew. Sagittarians don't 
seem to have to craft results through their work, either good or bad- it rains 
in their garden, or there is drought. 


As always, a geographical perspective will help our understanding. Places 
represented by Sagittarius are battlefields, cavalry, tanks, mechanized 
infantry, artillery, propelled grenades, rockets, missiles and places where 
ammunition is stored. On-the-go executives exemplify the Sagittarius spirit 
very well. So places where they are typically found, such as executive 
boardrooms, are Sagittarian. 


Capricorn is the tenth sign. It is an earthy sign in spite of the fact that it is 
represented by a crocodile that spends time in the water. Hence a practical 
orientation should be expected. Although earthy, Capricoms are rather 
flexible and adjustable because it is a moveable, feminine sign. 


There is a bit of a contention surrounding the earthy nature of Capricorn 
which deserves explanation. Two classic astrological texts shine light on this 
question by describing the symbol of this sign. In the Parashara Hora 


(translated by R. Santhanam) it is said that the first half of Capricorn is 
quadruped, "the second half moving footless in the water." The Brihat 
Jataka (translated by B. Surya-Narayan Rao) is a little more specific. It 
states that the first half of Capricorn is represented by the "face of a deer, the 
second half being represented by the hinder part of a crocodile." 


In spite of these descriptions, let us be cautious about concluding that this 
sign is watery or half watery, just as we cannot conclude that half of Cancer 
is earthy. (The symbol of Cancer, the crab, is amphibious, too). It doesn't 
make any difference if the Cancer-ascendant was bom under the first, 
second or third part of this sign. Whatever degree of Cancer rises, people 
born under it still exhibit the typical characteristics of one born under a 
watery sign, i.e., they are seen to be emotional, caring and maternal. In the 
same way, Capricorns are earthy and this is seen no matter what part of 
Capricorn rises. 


Also, notice that every fourth sign of the zodiac repeats the same element. 
For example, since Aries is fiery, the fourth sign from it, Leo, is also fiery. 
The fourth signs before and after Capricorn are earthy, so it is just logical 
that Capricorn is earthy, too. Otherwise, the whole sequence of things gets 
upset just because of this one sign. This is not reasonable. 


The fact that Parashara states that Capricorn is an earthy sign, in spite of his 
observation about the "second half moving footless in water," basically 
closes the case. Some things can only be understood through the disciplic 
succession. Such information is not subject to sensory imperfections as is 
empiric knowledge. So we may conclude for functional purposes that 
Capricorn is earthy. 


Its Sanskrit name of Capricorn is "Makara," which means crocodile. When 
we consider the Puranic story of Gajendra the elephant, the crocodile 
symbol gives meaning to the sign. 


Gajendra was the king of the elephants. While bathing, he was attacked by a 
crocodile. Although an elephant is considered practically invincible on land, 
a crocodile is strong in water, its natural element. Thus, this crocodile was 


able to hold the elephant in its grasp for eons and eons until Gajendra was 
rescued by Vishnu. Concepts to be derived from this story are perseverance 
and endurance, like the crocodile's hold. It should also be noted that, 
although born of a low and unclean place, a crocodile should be respected 
for its potency. Similarly, although Capricorn is considered a rather 
mundane sign, Capricorns should be respected for their abilities. 


It is easily observed that people bor under this sign usually have thick 
eyebrows and prominent hair on the body. Their hair seems to be unusually 
dark given the context of their race. Capricom is a sign of long ascension, so 
those bom under it are tall unless the planets dictate otherwise. It is also 
observed that Capricom ascendants have rather large teeth. 


Nalini-Kantha is a well-known astrologer in the United States. He has made 
a few comments about this sign, which are insightful because he himself is a 
Capricorn-ascendant. Thus he has special understanding of the workings of 
the Capricorn mind. "A Capricorn will have a strong appetite with an 
uncontrolled tongue, is very talkative, often lacking the ability to keep 
secrets." B.V. Raman describes Capricorns as “chatterboxes,” which 
experience quickly confirms. 


Speaking of uncontrolled, Raman notes that "They are possessed of 
sympathy, generosity, and philanthropy but cannot economize funds even is 
they were to be under the influence of adversity" (Hindu Predictive 
Astrology). 


The sympathy and philanthropy of the Capricorn-ascendant is only natural 
because the lord of this sign is Satur, the planet of the masses, the tired, the 
poor, and the downtrodden. Sadness, depression and melancholy 
correspond to Saturn. Such feelings do make one philosophical about life, 
which is why Capricoms have a philosophical streak and a sober side. 


Nalini-Kantha also mentions that "They are sympathetic to the needy but 
usually selfish in their personal dealings" (How to Judge Your Horoscope , 
P: 120). And that "The Capricorn element makes one feel a bit conceited or 
superior and leads to moments of arrogance." 


These characteristics are no doubt bom of the coldness and aloofness of the 
sign, which is in keeping with the reptilian nature of its symbol. Its lord 
Saturn is also characterized by being cold and aloof. The reader should keep 
in mind that such descriptions offer but basic ideas. The characteristics 
which every rising sign imparts become modified by the planetary 
dispositions. 


As a tule, Capricorns are intelligent. B.V. Raman mentions that "The 
Capricorn element quickens the intellectual qualifications." It is easily noted 
that Capricorns have a very rapid thinking process. A flip side of this 
attribute is nicely presented in Esoteric Astrology (Behari P: 142) wherein 
one is informed that "Capricoms are intellectuals ready with rationalizations 
for their every action; their mind is so developed that their reasoning many 
times deludes even themselves." This idiosyncrasy is also easily noted by an 
astrological observer. Even in friendly discussions Capricorns will justify 
and rationalize things with so many points of view, from so many different 
angles of vision and so fast that they are a marvel to watch. This 
phenomenon is a tribute to, if not proof of, their quick and agile brains. 


One of the really positive elements of this sign is that it tends to make one 
born under it an achiever and a doer. This can be understood easily if one 
remembers that Capricorn is the tenth sign of the zodiac. The tenth is the 
karmastan, the house of work and actions. Thus a practical nature is 
communicated to one born under this sign. Capricorns are seen to be 
working people capable of producing by dint of steady labor. 


The tenth house occupies the meridian in any horoscope; it has reference to 
heights, high status, rank, fame and such. So Capricorn, as the tenth sign of 
the zodiac, imparts ambition to those born under it. 


Among the places indicated by Capricorn are the habitats of crocodiles. In 
general, low and unclean places correspond to Capricom. Places 
characterized by manual labor and workers, as well as stonework and 
cement, are Capricornian. Dark, gray colors are Saturnian, and carry over to 
Satum's sign. Hence factory settings correspond to Capricorn, as do 


graveyards and tombs. 


Lastly, we'll consider the words of Hindu Predictive Astrology wherein it 
is written "Depending on the disposition of the ninth house they (Capricom- 
born) can become philosophically-minded or develop social consciousness." 


The penultimate sign of the zodiac is Aquarius. The Vedic name of this 
sign is Kumbha, which means the water bearer, and a man carrying a large 
jug of water above his head is the symbol of this sign. The Western name 
seems to give some direct connection to a watery nature, while the Vedic 
name doesn't actually make this implication. The name Kumbha simply 
refers to a water bearer. We know from the disciplic succession that 
Aquarius is an airy sign and, in spite of its Western name, we want to see it 
as such. 


But can the airy nature of Aquarius be justified even by the Vedic symbol of 
this sign? There are a couple of ways of considering the symbol such that a 
connection is made. The water bearer of the symbol carries an urn over his 
head, which is half empty and pouring out water. Thus it is practically a 
container of air. It has also been said that, even though the water bearer 
carries water, it is held above his head, such that what the symbol actually 
depicts is the airy space between the bearer and the urn. So there is scope for 
establishing Aquarius as an airy sign by dint of its symbol. 


B.V. Raman comments that Aquarians seem to shine as writers and 
philosophers (Hindu Predictive Astrology). 


In Notable Horoscopes, Raman comes right out and says "Aquarius is a 
sign of calculated thinking" with reference to the horoscope of Augustus 
Caesar. 


Aquarians aren't usually as flexible as those born under Libra or Gemini, the 
other two airy signs. This is because the other two are moveable and 
common signs, respectively, while Aquarius is fixed. 


Saturn is the lord of this sign. He is a serious and melancholic planet. 
Perhaps too serious because Satyacharya, a Vedic sage and author of a well 
known astrological treatise, classifies the Aquarius element as "sorrowful 
and miserable." It is well documented that Aquarians have melancholic and 
sad streaks. It is this very nature which foments the stoic and philosophical 
side of the Aquarian. 


Of course, one who has suffered can be compassionate with others because 
he understands suffering himself. Perhaps therein lies the origin of the 
humanitarian instincts so often associated with this sign. Raj Gopal Iyer, a 
contemporary Hindu astrologer, defines Aquarians as "Utopian in nature, 
universal in scope" in Notable Horoscopes. 


Aquarius imparts an eccentric nature. In everyday charts, Aquarians are seen 
to go in for new, offbeat and unusual types of things. Behari characterizes 
them as having interest in a "different twist, a new value, a new direction" 
(Esoteric Astrology, P: 152). They are often in the vanguard of things. 
Hindu Predictive mentions "The sign Aquarius has the quality of usually 
making one somewhat queer and peculiar in one's nature." This tendency 
can manifest in different ways, but the common thread is that Aquarians are 
eccentric and different. 


The eccentric nature of the Aquarian appears to be related to another main 
aspect of this sign- the mystic nature of the Aquarian. In Notable 
Horoscopes, Raman goes as far as to say that "Aquarius is the only true 
mystic sign of the zodiac." This seems to be in recognition of the natural 
intuition and quasi clairvoyance associated with this sign. For whatever 
reason, Aquarians just seem drawn towards occult activities such as palm 
reading, astrology, hypnosis, and tarot. Scorpio is often said to impart mystic 
tendencies, but this might be more in recognition of the secretive nature of 
Scorpio rather than any mysticism. 


Of course, the Master of all Mystics is Shree Krishna himself as pointed out 
by Sanjaya to Dritarashtra. And the greatest secret is knowledge of Him: 
Raja Vidya, Raja Guhyam- "This knowledge is the king of education, it is 
the most secret of all secrets" (Bhagavad Gita, Chapter nine, text two). 


Raman makes a very insightful and appropriate comment about the 
Aquarian born (he is one himself): "Aquarians are pure in heart- a quality in 
them endears them to others." In my own humble experience, I have found 
these words of Mr. Raman to be very true. 


Communism is an Aquarian phenomenon because it is a philosophical sign, 
a utopian sign, and its lord is Saturn, the planet of labor. Karl Marx, the 
father of communism, was born under this Aquarius. Contrary to western 
notions, the Aquarian element is rather harsh unless planetary configurations 
dictate otherwise. That ties in well with the Aquarius-communism link- 
communism is by nature a restrictive, cold and impersonal doctrine. 


Which is why Hindu Predictive classifies Russia as a country which 
corresponds to the Aquarian element. Factories, machinery, and places 
dominated by workers all correspond to Aquarius. Aeronautical machinery 
corresponds to Aquarius because Saturn, its lord, is a planet which 
represents mechanisms and machinery, especially those made of iron; and 
Aquarius is an airy sign. Communist Russia was well known for the 
advanced aeronautics of its MIG aircraft. 


Places where mysticism and occult sciences are practiced also correspond to 
Aquarius. 


The last sign of the zodiac is Pisces. It is a watery sign and, as with all the 
watery signs, people born under it are endowed with an emotional and 
nurturing nature. Pisceans tend to romanticize things. They feel things with 
their hearts, and are perceived as being sincere people. 


This sign is a feminine one, but there is no hot, Martian influence as with 
Scorpio. So people bor under it have been described with adjectives such 
as sweet, mellow and kind. They are easy-going and unobtrusive. 


Pisces is symbolized by two fish darting nervously past each other in 


opposite directions. Fish are rather nervous creatures, so what this symbol 
points out is the nervous nature of the Piscean. It also points out their 
restlessness and the fact that they are reserved, timid and indecisive. Raman 
says they "lack self-confidence" in Hindu Predictive Astrology. 


Pisces is a pious sign. It belongs to Brihaspati, the spiritual master of Indra 
and the Devas. Brihaspati is a great priest famous for ritualistic sacrifices and 
observances. It is a sign of brahminical (priestly) caste. And as the last sign 
of the zodiac, it represents moksha, liberation. This is one of the main goals 
of religious practice. 


Even geographically, Pisces represents places such as pagodas, altars, 
temples, shrines, churches and places of pilgrimage. Since Pisces is a watery 
sign, fisheries, oceans, ponds, lakes and any large tanks of water correspond 
to it; swimming pools, for example. So do reservoirs and fountains. 


The Pisces-born are very orthodox and correct in their dealings. They seem 
to want to go through the established channels and work by approved-of 
means in everything they do. They just seem to have a fetish about this. 


Again, Jupiter (Brihaspati) is the lord of this sign. History corresponds to 
Jupiter. Therefore, Hindu Predictive says that Pisceans are "fond of history 
and antiquarian talks." Jupiter is the natural planetary indicator of dharma, 
religion. So the Puranic narrations, which are pious histories of a theistic 
society, especially correspond to the Pisces element. 


Pisceans are by nature altruistic and may find themselves in the role as 
"sustainers" of one sort or the other. There are several good astrological 
reasons that justify this. The very fact that Pisces is the 12th sign of the 
zodiac suggests that those bom under it would be inclined towards 


charitable efforts, the 12" relates to charity. 


Another reason is that, as the last sign of the zodiac, Pisces is a platform or a 
base for the first. The zodiac is, after all, a circle. Esoteric Astrology sums it 


up nicely by saying "One finds that the Pisces-born individuals are full of 
responsibilities and that they have to sustain many individuals and 
organizations. In fact, the last degree of Pisces is the first degree of Aries, 
which very well indicates that the Pisces ascendants are born to give life and 
sustenance to those who have to begin a new cycle of activities, families and 
thought currents" (P: 165). 

The Piscean naturally desires to be altruistic and helpful. Why is this? The 
seventh house is the kama-stan, the house of desires. It depicts, naturally, the 
nature of the desires of the Pisces-born. Virgo, a sign of maternal instincts, 
altruism and sacrifice, falls in the seventh from Pisces. For this reason the 
Piscean naturally desires to be altruistic and helpful. 


This brings us to the end of the section dealing with the signs. The 
information presented is by no means exhaustive or the last word. Rather, it 
is hoped that this material will give a solid understanding of the basic 
building block of any horoscope, the signs of the zodiac. Fancy 
interpretations should not be undertaken until one has a good understanding 
of the signs. 


Chapter Seven: Indications of the Houses 
Another horoscopic building block is the houses of the horoscope. The first 
house is considered from the ascendant in Vedic astrology- it is where the 
rising sign sits. In Sanskrit, this house is called the lagna, which means 
"starting point." It is also called the "Tanu Bhava," meaning the house of the 
body in general. Dr. B.V. Raman has referred to the ascendant on several 
occasions as the "foundation of the horoscope." One's basic nature, 
personality and character traits are indicated by the ascendant. 


Indeed it is the foundation. Other houses acquire their significance according 
to their relationship to the ascendant. For example, the fourth house is so 
because it is the fourth from the ascendant. Its fourth house significations 
such as relations, education, mother, etc. manifest as such because of this 
relationship with the ascendant. 


It is chiefly the ascendant which pegs the horoscope on a higher or lower 
level and dictates the results which other houses give. The following 


example illustrates this. Let us suppose that two different charts both have 
equally strong indications for education, such as a strong fourth house and a 
strong karaka Jupiter. But in one case, the ascendant is quite robust and 
unblemished, while in the other it is decidedly weak. Well, although both 
charts would give good results in terms of education, the chart with the 
strong ascendant would give results on a higher level. The native of that 
chart might graduate from a well-known university with a valued degree. 
On the other hand, the native of the chart with a weak ascendant would also 
graduate, but maybe the school would have less prestige, or be known only 
regionally, or have less-valued accreditation, or something of that nature. 


The beginning of life is represented by the ascendant, as well as its duration. 
For example, in one chart known to the author, the Sun occupies the 
ascendant in Cancer, a watery sign. The Sun, among other things, represents 
hospitals and the government. How interesting that the native was born, in 
other words, began his life, in a naval hospital on the banks of a river, in 
keeping with the indications of the ascendant. 


And just as the different signs of the Zodiac are representative of the 
different anatomical parts of the body, so too are the different houses of the 
individual horoscope. In the case of the ascendant, it represents the brain, 
head and even one's hair. 


Similarly, the second house represents one's face, right eye, mouth and 
tongue. As a result of this, one's karma in relation to diet and eating habits, 
speech, and vision are indicated by the second. 


The 11th chapter, 49th verse of Jataka Parijata mentions that "learning ... 
is regularly derivable from the second house." Learning has reference to the 
second house because the second is the 11th from the fourth. The 11th is the 
house of gains and the fourth is the main house of academic education. So 
as a gainful house from the fourth (education), the second is indicative of 
academic karma, too, although the fourth is the principal house of education; 
so one might require a strong fourth house or karaka for academic results to 
flow through the second house. 


Family is another indication of the second house. Many a classical texts 
mention this. This refers not only to the family unit in which one was born, 
but to marriage, too. Related to this indication, the second represents 
maternal uncles because it is the 11th (older brothers) from the house of 
mother. 


That the second has reference to economic development is also born out in 
many an ancient text. In fact, in the first chapter of Hora Sara, the name 
"Artha" is given to the second house. "Artha" has been translated by His 
Divine Grace A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami as "economic development." 


Specifically, income is attributed to the second. This is because it is the 
fourth from the 11th. The 11th is the house of financial gains. The fourth is 
the house of residence. So according to standard interpretive logic, the 
second house is where wealth resides, as it were; that is one reason why the 
second is considered to be the house of income. That the second is the house 
of income has much empiric confirmation. The second can also be thought 
of as standing for movable assets. 


The third is the house of sahaja, or brothers. This includes neighbors, friends 
and other collaterals, too. 


Courage and boldness are other main indications of the third. When this 
house is well disposed, one has courage. When fiery planets favorably 
influence this house, this is even truer. When Mars, who is already the 
karaka (natural indicator) of courage occupies this house, one becomes very 
courageous. 


Another main indication of the third is communication. This covers 
everything from the writing, publishing, and distribution of information- it 
includes books, newspapers, magazines and the media in every respect. 


Anatomically, the area of the throat, shoulders, arms and ears are typically 
related to the third. Therefore, the nature of one's voice and "Vira," strength, 
may be divined from the third. 


The fourth house is indicative of several major aspects of life. For example, 
it is called the matru-stan because it is the house of mother. It is the Vahana- 
stan because it represents conveyances. Bandhava is another important name 
of the fourth house. It refers to the fact that relations are indicated by the 
fourth- "hearth and home." Land and properties correspond to the fourth, 
and it is indicative of one's homeland. Last but not least, the fourth is the 
house of formal education. When it is fortified, one receives higher learning, 
good grades and such. When there are afflictions to this house, education is 
either interrupted of arrested prematurely. 


The part of the body that the fourth house stands for is the chest area and the 
heart. Perhaps this is why the house is representative of one's mind and 
feelings because it is the house where the heart lies (and, according to the 
Puranas, where the soul sits). 


The fifth house receives the appellation of Putra-stan; it is the house of 
children. In keeping with this logic, the fifth is indicative of creativity in 
general; after all, one's children are one’s creation. 


It is the house of intelligence. Not only the level of one's intelligence may be 
judged from this house, but the nature of one’s intelligence as well. For 
example, Mercury in a Martian sign in the fifth would give a very logical 
brand of thinking while Jupiter in this house would give a type of thinking 
more along the lines of wisdom, good judgment and common sense. 
Advisory capacity is assigned to the fifth house because it is the house 
representing one’s mode and nature of thought. 


Anything dealing with chance or competition is related to the fifth. Exams, 
sports, speculative investments, and lotteries and such are related to the fifth. 


The fifth is also a house connected with vows, temple worship, mantra japa 
and religious rituals. It is a house of piety. This is born out in the section of 
Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra that delineates upon fourth-house 
lordship, wherein the Maharishi states that "When the lord of the fourth 


occupies the fifth house, the native becomes a devotee of Shree Vishnu." 


Because the fifth is related to temples, worship and rituals, an idea about 
one's worshipable deity may be had from this house. For example, female 
influences on fifth house factors might see one particularly fond of Durga or 
Laxmi. 


One's stomach is represented by the fifth. 


The sixth house is indicative of sickness, enemies, opponents, obstacles, 
litigations (such as court-room battles), servitude, and debts. 


Because it is the third house (brothers) from the house of mother, it comes to 
stand for younger maternal uncles. This is confirmed often in the classical 
astrological literature. 


Anatomically speaking, the sixth corresponds to the intestines, kidneys, 
pancreas and the liver. 


The seventh house is referred to as the kalatra-bhava, the house of marriage. 
In the same vein, it is called the kama-stan. It also functions as the house of 
partnerships. 


"Opposites" may be judged from the seventh, although in terms of 
opponents, the sixth is more representative. 


To determine foreign residence the seventh would be one of the houses one 
would want to take into consideration. Isn't a foreign land opposite of one's 
own? (The seventh is opposite the first) 


One medical astrologer correctly stated that the seventh house represents the 
"external genitalia." 


The eighth is the house of secrets, hidden impediments, deceit and 
mysticism. In more modern times, it has also been observed to involve a 
person in psychoanalysis and psychology, and research in general. 


Longevity is a chief indication of the eighth house. Therefore, it is called the 
house of death. Not only one's longevity, but information about the source 
and nature of one's death may be divined from the eighth, as well as an idea 
of one's next destination. This we have on authority of Shree Krishna from 
the Bhagavad Gita: 
Yam Yam Vapi Smaran Bhavam 
Tyajati Ante Kalevaram 
Tam Tam Evaiti Kaunteya 

Sada Tad Bhava Bhavita 
"Whatever state of being one remembers when he quits his body, to that 
state he will attain without fail." (Bhagavad Gita, chapter eight, verse six) 


After all, if our "state of mind" at the time of death influences our next 
destination, then the environment and activities that manifest at our death, as 
indicated by the eighth house, will be an indicative factor. 


Inheritance is another indication of which the eighth is indicative. 


The large colon and anal region correspond to the eighth. 


The ninth house is the house of Dharma or religion. The fifth is also a pious 
house, but the ninth is even more intensely so. It is indicative of pilgrimages 
and temple worship. 


It is the house of preceptors such as the spiritual master or guru. Along 
similar lines, the ninth represents teachers in general. The father is a 
principle teacher in life, so maybe this is why the ninth is indicative of one's 
father as well. 


And that the ninth does indicate one's father is beyond doubt as Parashara 
Muni himself tells us so; this statement may be found in the 20th chapter of 
Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra which delineates ninth-house indications. 


This house is also termed the bhagya-stan or the house of fortune. In this 
sense, it is similar to the fifth. Both are houses connected with punya and 
purva karmas- pious credits and previous activities, respectively, from other 
lives. This is because both are trinal houses and that is the nature of trinal 
houses. At any rate, results from these houses tend to come with little effort 
and/or not exactly in relation to some action that one has set into motion. For 
example, a person may not choose his or her father. The father that one 
receives in life is something which is awarded according to karma from 
previous lives. A good example in relation to the fifth house is children. 
Obviously, one cannot choose one's child, either. The type of child born to 
one is also awarded in relation to previous karmas. This is why the type of 
results that the ninth house gives has an element of luck about it. 


Anatomically, the thighs are represented by the ninth house while the tenth 
indicates the knees. 


The tenth house is the Karma-stan, the house of actions. Its indications also 
encompass one's type of work, profession and career. A deeper 
understanding of this house has been nicely presented in Esoteric 
Astrology (P: 187) by Bepin Behari. Mr. Behari points out that the Sanskrit 
word "vasanam" or clothing is used to define the tenth house. It seems that 
just as the body expresses itself through the clothing it wears, the soul 
expresses itself through the tenth house; in other words, through the actions 
and activities of the body. 


This house definitely differs from the ninth in that it is indicative of one's 
own efforts and labors. The results that this house gives do come in relation 
to actions that a person sets into motion with his or her own hand. 


Another major indication of the tenth has to do with status, rank and 
authority. Of course, one's status in life is greatly indicated by the ascendant, 


but this is definitely the domain of the tenth house, too. 


And just as authority is represented by the tenth house, so are superiors and 
the government. Since the ninth is the twelfth from the tenth, by the way, the 
ninth becomes the house of government expenses, charities, welfare, et 
cetera. 


In the eleventh chapter of Parashara Hora (eleventh verse), the Maharishi 
relates that one's father may be judged from the tenth house, even though in 
the twentieth chapter he states that one's father is an indication of the ninth. 
This is not actually contradictory- it just means that more than one house 
may be indicative of the father. R. Santhanam, in his commentary to this 
verse in the Parashara Hora (P 122 - 123), makes the point that the tenth is 
the opposite house to the fourth, which is the house of mother. So it only 
makes astrological sense that the tenth house would be indicative of one's 
father. At the same time, the ninth is still the house of father because one's 
father is given by providence, is a teacher in life, and because Parashara 
Rishi said so. It is the opinion of Mr. Santhanam that "The status of the 
father, his family, and the final rites the native will perform to his father will 
all have to be known through the tenth house. The father as an individual ... 
may still be examined from the ninth house." 


At any rate, it is very standard that astrologers in South India consider the 
father from the ninth house although in the North, there is a strong tendency 
to consider him from the tenth. 


The eleventh is the house of gains. It is a financial house. In the twenty- 
second chapter ofParashara Hora, the sage uses the word 
"auspiciousness" to describe this house, although its lord is not deemed to be 
so. Wealth-producing results are described however, throughout the chapter 
for the eleventh lord as well as planets in the eleventh. 


This house also stands for collaterals, brothers and neighbors, as does the 
third. The only difference is that, in this case, the eleventh stands for older 
brothers while the third is representative of younger brothers. 


Anatomically, one's calves are represented by the eleventh house, and the 
feet and left eye by the twelfth. 


The twelfth house is termed "Vyaya," the house of loss. The twelfth causes 
expenses, decay and degeneration of karma in general. 


The term "shayana-shuka," evening pleasures, is used to describe the 
twelfth. This statement relates to both the existence as well as the nature of 
one's sexual pleasures. Karma in relation to one's sleep and dreams may also 
be judged from this house. 


The twelfth house is the last house of the horoscope. Just as the first is 
indicative of the very beginning of life, the twelfth is indicative of the very 
end and even beyond. It practically touches the next life; it is only separated 
from one's next destination by a thin layer of time. The momentum which 
gathers steam from the first house onwards, basically carries through to the 
next life from the twelfth-house platform. In a sense, at this point, the soul 
would be closer to the next life than to the beginning of this one. 


The influence of pure benefics on this house is said to give results anywhere 
from pure love of God, to liberation, to a future life in heavenly planets. The 
influence of malefic planets would create a future condition which is hellish. 
Influences in between, of course, might give a future life with something of 
comforts and good luck along with something of obstacles and difficulties. 


Chapter Eight: Rules of House Placement 
In the previous chapter, the simple indications of the houses were delineated. 
In this chapter, we shall try to see the houses in a different light; we shall try 
to see how planets function in a positive or negative manner according to the 
type of house which they occupy. 


We basically have four different classifications of houses in Vedic astrology: 
quadrant or kendra houses, trines known as trikonas in Sanskrit, dushthanas 
or evil houses, and upachaya (productive) houses. Quadrant houses are the 


first, fourth, seventh and tenth. Trines are the fifth and ninth. The first 
functions as both a quadrant and a trine; it is the cornerstone of both. The 
sixth, eighth and twelfth houses are evil places and the third, sixth, tenth and 
eleventh are the upachayas. 


The best way to define the different classifications of houses is simply to 
define how they function. Benefic planets, for example, give positive results 
in quadrant houses. In and of themselves, they strengthen such houses. 
Malefics are not positive in these houses unless they are otherwise fortified. 


In general though, planets in quadrant houses suggest that a person can 
manipulate the material nature and manage things in life. The rationale 
behind this statement basically lies in the fact that the quadrants represent the 
main aspects of life. For example, the first represents the karma in general, 
the fourth stands for such central elements as one's mother, house, education 
and vehicles. The seventh stands for one's spouse and the tenth one's work. 
By comparison, other houses represent peripheral things, such as the third, 
which represents brothers, or such as the twelfth, which represents expenses, 
or in the way that the second indicates income. So planets in the quadrant 
houses are an indication that the native of the horoscope is interested in the 
main aspects of life and that his karma in these areas is active. A person with 
major planets in a house such as the twelfth house, by comparison, might be 
interested in renunciation or might simply be a man without means in the 
“poor house.” 


Trinal houses are always benefic towards the planets which occupy them. 
Going in the opposite direction, the same scheme applies as with quadrants: 
benefics benefit these houses by occupation and are productive of good 
results, while malefics are negative for trinal houses. 


Evil houses are the sixth, eighth and twelfth. In Sanskrit, they are also called 
trik or dushthan houses. They are always evil places for a planet to occupy, 
with a few noted exceptions. 


A well-known exception is Venus in the twelfth, and there is a logic for this. 
Since the twelfth is a house related to enjoyments and comforts, it is a house 


where Venus is comfortable and productive of good results. These results 
would probably be along the lines of luxuries and sensual pleasures, not 
necessarily financial results. 


Another exception has to do with Mercury in the eighth. Classical 
astrological literature stipulates that Mercury in the eighth is good for 
longevity. This indication simply makes sense and is not so particular to 
Mercury because benefics enhance the indications of any house they 
occupy. Since the eighth is the house of longevity, Mercury, or the bright 
Moon, Jupiter or Venus are all helpful in this regard. 


But indications that are particular to Mercury in the eighth are pointed out in 
various texts, such as in the Brihat Jataka, chapter 20, text 6. There, 
Viraha Mihir mentions that when Mercury occupies the eighth, "the person 
will be renowned for his virtues" (Usha & Shasi). This is unusual because 
the eighth is an evil house, and planets located there are not known for 
producing virtuous results. 


Saravali of Kalyan Varma (translation by R. Santhanam, chapter 30, text 
45) goes even further by saying that "If Mercury occupies the eighth bhava 
(house), the native will win famous names (i.e., titles), be strong, long-lived, 
will support his family and be equal to a king or will become a justice." So it 
seems that an eighth house location for Mercury is not necessarily a strike 
against the planet giving good results; in fact, strong results from Mercury in 
the eighth have been observed. 

Bhavarta-Ratnakara also mentions an exception with reference to Jupiter 
in the eighth. In chapter nine, text eight of that work, it is stated that Jupiter 
in the eighth can be productive of wealth when he is the ninth lord. Dr. B.V. 
Raman, in his notes to the text, points out that this is probably so for the 
following reasons: Jupiter is a wealth-producing planet to begin with and 
owns the ninth (which is a wealth-producing house) when, for example, 
Cancer rises. As such, its aspect on the second (income) from the eighth 
should bring about the accumulation of wealth. I have seen this particular 
dictum come true very strongly; the source of wealth was the native's father, 
in keeping with the ninth-house lordship of Jupiter. So it may be regarded 
seriously. Another exception to the evil results usually attributed to the 
occupation of dushtanas will be mentioned in the coming paragraphs on 
upachayas. 


The upachaya houses are: the third, sixth, tenth and eleventh. To define 
these houses in terms of occupation, we have simply to say is that planets 
which occupy these houses are productive of results, especially malefics. 
This is the opposite of quadrants and trines, where malefics produce 
negative results. 


It is noteworthy that the sixth is both an evil dushthana as well as an 
upachaya house. This is why, in the ancient texts, one can find both good 
and bad results ascribed to planets, especially malefics, in the sixth. 
Remember that upachaya houses make the planets which are placed in them 
fruitful. 


This can be quite confusing. But it all becomes clear when one simply 
understands that when a planet is well-off otherwise, for example, in terms 
of sign position, lordship, aspects and association, then he can and will 
produce powerful results in the sixth because the sixth is, after all, a 
productive upachaya house. 


This only makes sense because even in a quadrant or trine a planet has to be 
well disposed, or at least not afflicted, in order to take advantage of those 
houses. The same goes for the sixth- to a great degree, a planet can 
overcome the evil of being in this negative, dushtana house by taking 
advantage of the fact that it is also an upachaya. But then a planet would 
have to have some strength otherwise in order to do so. 


In a similar way to the sixth, the tenth also plays a double role; it is both a 
quadrant as well as an upachaya house. What this means is that malefic 
planets generally prosper and produce good in the tenth because they do 
well in upachayas. Usually, malefics cause evil in quadrants, but in the 
tenth, the opposite is true because of the fact that it is simultaneously an 
upachaya. 


Chapter Nine: The Planets 


In the very beginning of Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, the Maharishi 
identifies the planets as being expansions of Vishnu. This makes sense as 
Vishnu is concerned with the sojourn of the spirit soul throughout the 
material world. In fact, Vishnu creates the material world as a field of 
activity for the individual soul (see chapter thirteen of the Bhagavad Gita). 
Then he expands himself as the Supersoul to accompany each individual 
soul from birth to birth. Since the planets are indicative of our destiny in this 
world, it is only natural that they be Vishnu-tattva (of the nature of Vishnu). 
The point is that the will of Vishnu is indicated by the planets; they are not a 
separate agency. 


To even begin to be able to address the topic of the planets and how they 
function in predictive astrology, one first has to become familiar with the 
concept of karakas. "karaka" is a Sanskrit word meaning indicator. The 
planets are all natural indicators in some way; for example, the Moon 
represents mothers; the Sun represents fathers, the king and the government; 
Mars is the planet of courage; Venus represents amorous affairs, Mercury 
communication, et cetera. That over which a planet is a natural indicator is 
called its "karakatva" and again, the planet itself is called the "karaka." 


We will consider the planets in the order in which they are found in the 
weekdays, beginning with the Sun. (Obviously, the term "planet" is being 
used rather loosely here so as to include the Sun and Moon). The Sun 
claims the title of the Atmakaraka, the planetary indicator of the soul. When 
the Sun is prominent in one's chart and other combinations are sympathetic, 
one becomes concerned with self-realization and topics concerning the soul. 
It is for this reason that the Sun is indicative of one's ego and instincts. 


In fact, even one's spiritual evolution may be largely judged from the Sun 
for this reason. The Brihat Jataka gives a technique for gleaning an idea 
about one's past birth. First, one determines the decant occupied by the more 
powerful of the Sun or the Moon. The ruler of this decant suggests from 
which plane of existence one has come (for example, earthly, heavenly, 
infernal) and whether one's position in life was high or low. The point is that 
the Sun is indicative of one's soulful journey from one body to the next. 
(Why the Moon is also indicative of one’s soulful journey will be explained 
shortly). 


As a negative definition, it may be noted that the Sun is not treated the same 
in Vedic astrology as it is in the western system. In western astrology, the 
horoscope and planetary arrangement is basically judged from the Sun. In 
Vedic astrology, the horoscope is judged from the rising sign and the Moon 
although the Sun may be given tertiary significance. The rationale for the 
Vedic stance is basically that, although the Sun is representative of the soul, 
the soul is covered in this world by the subtle mind and the body. Since the 
Moon corresponds to the emotions, and the ascendant to the body and 
personality, these two are more telling in terms of everyday, mundane events 
such as marriage, children, finances and work. But again, subtle indications 
which come from a soulful platform, such as one's spiritual advancement or 
instincts, would have to incorporate the solar situation to be properly judged. 


As far as the more exterior indications of the Sun are concerned, know that 
it is considered to be a fiery planet of warrior (kshatriya) caste. This is why 
kings, the government, politics and authorities in general have all been 
ascribed to the Sun. The royal qualities such as pride, dignity, loyalty, 
honor, a sense of duty and such all correspond to the solar influence. The 
Sun is a satvic planet, so the concept of a chivalrous warrior corresponds to 
the Sun in full. 


It has long been recognized that the Sun relates to healing. The Sun's rays 
are antiseptic, they purify and clean. Along these same lines, doctors, 
medicines, and hospitals are indicated by the Sun. The Sun stands for 
sharpened blades, so surgery and scalpels correspond to the Sun. 


Because the Sun is the natural indicator of the body, so it is entitled the 
"Tanukaraka." The skeletal structure corresponds to it. 


Since it is a satvic planet concerned with self-realization and the soul, it 
makes sense that temples are indicated by the Sun. 


Vision, photography, telescopes and optics in general are also in the solar 
domain. 


The other luminary, the Moon, has been given great significance in the 
classic astrological literature. Raman calls the ascendant and the Moon the 
"twin pillars" of the horoscope. In the same vein, Satya-Rishi, who was a 
sage of the Vedic era and whose writings are therefore very authoritative, 
indicated in his astrological treatise (Satya-Jatakam) that the Moon should 
be given significance similar to the ascendant if it is strong. In fact, 
Parashara speaks of considering the planetary configuration from the 
ascendant, Moon and the Sun to arrive at an overall judgment. This he terms 
"su-darshana," or a good view of the horoscope. But again, the ascendant 
and the Moon will be more prominent in terms of everyday events and the 
Sun will be more indicative of one's instincts, evolution and the soul proper. 


The Moon is termed the Manakaraka, the planetary indicator of the mind. In 
fact, there is a term in the fifth canto of the Shrimad Bhagavatam, 
"Manomaya," which His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami 
translates as "the Moon, the predominating deity of everyone's mind." The 
Moon represents the mind in the sense of one's emotions and feelings, the 
rational intelligence being represented by Mercury. So the Moon is 
indicative of the mind in the sense of feelings, urges, tendencies and the 
nature of one's attraction; psychology and psychoanalysis come under its 
domain. 


It is noteworthy in this analysis to shine some light on the nature of the mind 
as pointed out by the Avanti (district of Malwa) Brahmin in the eleventh 
canto of the Shrimad Bhagavatam (chapter 23, text 46). There, while 
taking personal responsibility for the negative karma he was experiencing, 
the brahmin instructs us that "I, the infinitesimal spirit soul, on the other 
hand, have embraced this mind, which is the mirror reflecting the image of 
the material world." This statement confirms a common observation, that the 
mind seems to have a reflective element about it just as the Moon, its 
indicator, reflects the light of the Sun. 


A rule-of-thumb for understanding the Moon is given by its phases and 
brightness. The brighter the Moon is, the stronger it becomes while the 
darker it becomes, the weaker it gets. A dark moon is considered a malefic, 
indicative of a mind which, to some degree or other, doubts itself, worries, 
exaggerates, is indecisive, without determination, prone to phobias, paranoid 


to some degree and which lacks that "go-ahead" spirit which the full Moon 
would impart (other considerations notwithstanding). 


On the other hand, when the Moon is bright, and especially when it is full, it 
indicates a strong and healthy mind. Shil Ponde, in his book Hindu 
Astrology- Jyotish Shastra, sums it up very nicely by saying "The shukla- 
paksha (bright Moon) people may not be rich or even wealthy, but they 
seem to know what to do to develop what talents they possess and to enjoy 
life to the fullest extent, permitted by the station in life to which they were 
born. They have the power to rise in life through their own efforts" (P - 
206). This is the basic idea behind a bright Moon; it gives a positive mind, 
good memory and a stable emotional base. 


Besides having karakatva over the mind, the Moon is the karaka par 
excellence of mothers. Naturally, the feminine gender is associated with this 
orb. Since the lunar nature is to nurture, it is no wonder that the Moon stands 
for the breasts and milk. How interesting then, that the Moon is termed 
"soumya" or gentle in the classical astrological literature; gentleness is a 
quality traditionally associated with motherhood. In modern times, childcare 
would be a typical lunar occupation. 


The Moon is a watery planet and so not only water, but all types of liquids 
correspond to the Moon. In fact, the oceans, salt water and pearls are 
represented by the Moon. So are navigators and sailors. 


Following this same logic, our blood and cardiovascular system are 
considered to be represented by the Moon. Since Mars is red, some feel that 
Mars stands for the blood, which may be so; Mars from watery signs could 
certainly represent the blood. But primarily it is the Moon which is the 
astrological indicator of the blood. 


Vegetation falls under the domain of the Moon. Shree Krishna declares in 
the Bhagavad Gita that the Moon supplies the "juice of life to all 
vegetables." In his purport to this verse, A.C. Bhaktvedanta Swami explains 
that "Due to the Moon's influence, vegetables become delicious. Without the 
rays of the Moon, vegetables can neither grow nor _ taste 


succulent....Everything becomes palatable by the agency of the Supreme 
Lord through the influence of the Moon." (verse 15.3) 


Also noteworthy in predictive astrology is the fact that cotton, clothing and 
the textile industry in general are all indicated by the Moon. 


Next in our line of planetary consideration is Mars. Mars is a planet of 
warrior caste as is the Sun. In fact, Mars was the Roman God of War. 
Actually, Mars is Kartikeya in the Vedic scheme, the Commander-in-Chief 
of the demigods. There are stories in the Puranas about how Karttikeya 
defends the demigods against a group of materialists known as Daityas. 


As a fiery warrior planet, Mars imparts energy, resistance, courage, anger 
and a fiery temperament. The ability to challenge is naturally communicated 
by the Martian element. The military and weapons such as artillery, spears, 
rifles, and explosives are indicated by Mars as well as any sharp, pointed 
weapons. 


When the Martian fire is well channeled and sublimated- basically by good 
house position, sign position, good association or aspects, then this planet's 
influence can be positive. When this type of Mars is prominent in a chart, 
one will go forward in life, in whatever sphere, with energy, fight and 
resistance. Such Martian influence will make a person constructive. 


But an unbridled Mars, maybe in a negative house or sign, or in association 
with a planet such as Saturn, can see a person engaged in an aggressive, 
touchy, pushy and even destructive mode. Work as a butcher is 
representative of Martian energy which has not been sublimated. 


Mars is a natural indicator of various important aspects of life. For example, 
vira or strength is indicated by Mars. People with a prominent Mars in their 
horoscope would have good muscular development. 


Mars is the Bhratrukaraka, or the natural indicator of brothers and sisters. To 


have brothers is considered a source of strength for an individual, such that 
they are naturally indicated by Mars. Included in this classification would be 
not only brothers, but all types of collaterals. 


Bhoomikaraka is another name of Mars; it means that Mars is the karaka for 
lands and properties, such as buildings. 


A typical Martian occupation would be military service. But any type of 
work with heat and fire, such as working in kitchens, boiler rooms, factories, 
or fire fighting would be Martian. Mars is a planet of logical nature, so 
occupations involving mathematics, such as engineering and science, could 
be due to principally Mars. 


But such a manifestation usually involves the blending of Mercurial and 
Martian influence. Mars in a Mercurial sign and vice versa can certainly 
incline one towards science and engineering, also such interests as medicine, 
mathematics and computing. 


Mercury's principle fame comes as the planet of intelligence; this planet's 
very name in Sanskrit is "Buddhi," or intellect. (Wisdom and judgment are 
the basic domain of Jupiter). All kinds of rational intelligence, i.e., analytic, 
synthetic, as well as abstractive, come under Mercury's domain. 


How noteworthy it is, then, that both of the signs which Mercury owns are 
represented by human figures (Gemini's twins and Virgo's virgin). It is the 
human intellect which separates us from the animals, especially our ability to 
interpret through symbols. Mercury has special significance for human life. 


In fact, as the planet indicating abstractive abilities, Mercury has domain 
over composition, mathematics, codes, languages (including computer 
languages), and astrology itself. After all, astrology has to do with 
understanding time and karma through astronomical symbols, so it is 
certainly abstractive. 


Because of its great intellectual significance Mercury is a karaka for 
learning. Its influence can involve one in higher studies and even in an 
academic career. 


Mercury is known as the herald of the gods, so any type of communication 
or publishing, such as books, newspapers, magazines, radio, television or 
computer networks, smack of Mercurial influence. Any type of mail service 
is also Mercurial, obviously. 


Following the same logic, speech corresponds to Mercury. To give a basic 
idea, if Mercury associates with a benefic planet such as Jupiter, then one's 
speech would probably be positive, fraught with wisdom and piety. 
Association with Saturn would tend to make one’s speech harsh. When 
Mercury is retrograde, one would become a chatterbox because retrograde 
motion exaggerates the qualities of a planet. 


All planets are influenced by their association, but in the case of Mercury, it 
is especially so. He is deemed to be reflective of the planets around him. 
This quality of Mercury's is brought out in the ancient literature, for 
example, in Saravali, fourth chapter, text nine (R. Santhanam). There, it is 
stated "Jupiter, Mercury and Venus are benefics in nature ... Mercury in the 
company of malefics and the waning Moon are also considered malefics." 
By way of negative thinking, Mercury isn’t absorbent, Mercury does not 
take on the qualities of the planet he associates with; Mercury always 
represents one’s intelligence and way of thinking. But in the association of 
malefics, that thinking will be dedicated to negative purposes, while in the 
company of benefics, the thinking will be oriented towards positive 
purposes. Mercury is easily influenced. 


Skillfulness corresponds to Mercury. In modern times, one place where we 
see this quality of Mercury manifest is in the office place. Typing, filing, 
writing, and record keeping, such as accounting and bookkeeping, are all 
Mercurial. Furthermore, artistic skills, the ability to compose, craftsmanship, 
and technical proficiency all correspond to Mercury. Since Mercury belongs 
to the mercantile caste, this planet also imparts business skills. 


One last point about Mercury- it is a generous planet. This trait is brought 
out well in Jataka Parijata, chapter nine, verse ten, wherein it is stated: "If 
Mercury be in the tenth house, the person born will engage in sacrificial 
works ..." (Translation by V. Subramanya Shastri). The idea is that the tenth 
house (karma-stan) is indicative of one's actions and is the house through 
which the soul expresses itself. So if the verse tells us that Mercury here 
inclines a person towards sacrifice, public service and such, this means that 
Mercury by nature is generous and helpful. 


This trait is traditionally attributed to the fact that the adi-devata of Mercury 
is Vishnu, the Supreme Personality of Godhead. The adi-devata is the 
demigod symbol which typifies the intrinsic qualities of a planet. Vishnu is 
depicted throughout the Vedic literatures, especially the Puranas, as a 
forgiving and generous Personality who always comes to the rescue of the 
devas, the godly beings, when their forever opponents, the asuras, get the 
upper hand. We can therefore conclude that Mercury is not only a generous 
planet, but that Mercury inclines one toward piety, goodness and even 
makes one sympathetic to Vishnu worship, if other indications so warrant. 


Jupiter is Brihaspati in the Vedic scheme of things, the preceptor of Indra 
and the devas. This suggests that he is a great brahmin to begin with, what 
to speak of being a teacher, priest and a pious planet. 


Actually, as a brahmin Jupiter is indicative of all kinds of advice-giving 
karmas because this is the nature of brahminical dharmas. In ancient times, 
such activities were carried out by caste brahmins, but in modern times, the 
brahminical role of Jupiter would occupy one as a counselor, advisor or 
some type of modern professional. Combination with the Moon might see 
one a psychologist, with Mars a lawyer, with Mercury an accountant, or in 
the fifth a financial\investment advisor. The particulars would depend upon 
Jupiter's situation in the horoscope, the point being that Jupiter would see 
one engaged in an advisory or instructive role. 


Because he is a brahmin, guru and instructor, the Jovian personality feels 
authoritative in some way, that his or her opinion is the "last word." 


One of Jupiter's titles in this regard is Dharmakaraka, the planetary indicator 
of religion. Jupiter gives spiritual understanding and wisdom. As a priest he 
inclines one toward religious ceremonies and rituals, too. 


Jupiter is a great educator as a brahmin. In fact, he is called the Vidyakaraka 
because Jupiter indicates the acquisition of knowledge. Under his influence, 
one acquires higher learning such as university studies, and may be involved 
in teaching in one way or the other as a career. 


Another title of Jupiter's is Dhanakaraka, the indicator of wealth; Jupiter's 
role as an indicator of one's financial worth constitutes one of his main 
definitions. Specifically, investments and banking come under Jupiter’s 
sphere of influence because expansion is another one of his main traits. 
After all, what is banking and investment except money that grows? 


Another way in which this expansive facet of Jupiter commonly manifests is 
suggested by his title of Putrakaraka, the natural indicator of children. In a 
horoscope, it is principally Jupiter, the fifth house and its lord that are 
indicative of the existence of children and even, in tum, of their fate. 


Jupiter is the greatest benefic- it is said that his strong and central location in 
a horoscope can save one from the harmful influences of untold other 
planetary combinations. 


Jupiter is the planetary opposite of the constrictive Saturn. Whereas Saturn 
limits possibilities and establishes parameters, Jupiter suggests unfolding, 
evolution, cheerfulness and conveys a positive outlook. Even when Jupiter 
is blemished or afflicted somehow, he would tend to see one over-generous, 
too optimistic and too nice. The absence of Saturn’s influence, for example, 
might find one unable to say no, and wasting one's efforts along 
unwarranted lines. 


Dr. B.V. Raman states that "The position of Jupiter also considerably 
improves a horoscope by making the person not depend on another but to 
earn the name of a self-made man. Jupiter adds to the dignity of a person in 


a sure but silent way" (Hindu Predictive Astrology, P - 85). The logic 
behind this is that Jupiter is the planet of "punya," or good karmic credit 
eared in previous lives, such that in this life one may be lucky in one's 
endeavors and build oneself up, even where others fail. 


Venus is another great benefic. In the Vedic scheme of things, Venus is 
known as Shukra-Acharya, the spiritual master of a group of materialists 
known as Daityas. Venus is considered to be very merciful because he 
extends reformatory opportunities to the Daityas. The great Parashara Rishi 
has openly stated in the Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra that for Aquarius 
ascendant, the planet Venus, is benefic. The rishi does this by stating: Daitya 
Guru Shubha. Of course, he says this in relation to the lordship over houses 
which Venus acquires in relation to that ascendant, but we know that in a 
broader sense, Venus is a positive benefic all around. For example, in 
predictive astrology, Venus in a quadrant can counteract a multitude of 
afflictions by other planets. The very fifth canto of the Bhagavat Purana tells 
us that Venus is auspicious because it obstructs the influence of evil planets. 


Venus rides a white steed with a scroll and pen in hand. The pen and scroll 
relate to the fact that Venus is the originator of scriptures and religious 
processes. For this reason Venus is considered to be very merciful. One of 
the 108 names of Venus is Muktidaya, which indicates that the purpose of 
this planet is to lead one to liberation. The love, love of beauty, refinement, 
mercy, care and refinement championed by Shukra all have the goal of 
sublimating and spiritualizing the baser qualities of the materialists, in a 
similar way to Beauty to the Beast. 


The cursing of Maharaj Yayati by Shukra is a good example of this. Yayati 
had been given the hand of Shukra's daughter, Devayani, in marriage. But 
he also carried on a secret liason with her maidservant, Sharmishta. For this 
reason Yayati was cursed to experience immediate old age by Shukra, but 
was given the boon that the old age could be transferred to a willing 
recipient. His noble son Puru answered the call and donated his youth to his 
father, who took advantage to the fullest! But Yayati became philosophical 
upon noticing that, even thought he enjoyed sensual pleasures to the 
maximum, his desires never became satiated. It dawned on him how futile 
material life is, he became philosophical, returned the youth to his son and 
then went off to the forest to engage in self realization. The entire episode 


was all part of a greater plan for the spiritual upliftment of Yayati. Thus the 
sensuality and materialistic love corresponding to Venus is a part of a greater 
plan of evolution. 


In the case of Bali Maharaj, we can hardly blame Shukra for protecting the 
material possessions of Bali; nor for warming him against awarding the 
Vamana Avatar his requested donation of three steps of land. Shukra knew 
that with a mere two steps, Vamanadev would cover all the worlds, and ask 
for something more, too! But remember, the Venusian way is to elevate 
one's consciousness by exposure to love, beauty and refinement; to thus 
recondition grosser forms of consciousness, such that the Venusian way 
would be a backslide for one who has already come to the very point of 
surrendering worldly attachment in favor of pure love of God. Thus, Bali 
felt that he had to reject his preceptor's advice. 


However, we cannot be critical of Shukra in the sense that he once again 
taught us by playing his role as a worldly benefic; ultimately, for the spiritual 
upliftment of society. We can only see such interactions between the leaders 
of the demigods and the demons as some type of pastime enacted for our 
benefit. 


In Notable Horoscopes (P - 139), Dr. Raman points out that "Venus is a 
planet of devotion as well as emotions.” 


Venusian influence in a horoscope can reinforce the professional, advisory 
and teaching karmas of a horoscope as he is a great Brahmin, similar to 
Jupiter. 


Venus is named Shukra (semin) Acharya, which is why sensual karmas 
correspond to the planet. Not only sensual karmas, but enjoyments, comforts 
and refined things are this planet's domain, too. Venus is rather all- 
encompassing in this regard: Comforts, furniture, beauty, harmony, poetry, 
acting, art, dance, music, silks, silver, diamonds, fine apparel, incense, and 
perfumes are all in its portfolio. 


As all types of comforts correspond to Venus, this planet relates to vehicles, 
too, for they make the work of conveyance easy. This is why Venus 
receives the title of Vahanakaraka, the natural indicator of vehicles. 


Liquors and intoxications of all types are also the domain of Venus. 
Combination with Saturn is often present when sedative intoxicants are in 
question, such as marijuana, alcohol or opium derivatives, but still, it is 
Venus which is the main planet of intoxication. 


Cows are another Venusian indication. In all the classic literature, cows are 
related to Venus. Milk, however, is mainly a lunar indication. 


Probably the most famous indications of Venus are love, sex and marriage, 
just as in western astrology. The seventh is the house of marriage and sexual 
affairs in general, as its name, kama-stan, attests (Kamastan = place of love 
or lust). The nature of one's sex life, the point at which it will manifest in 
one's life, marriage, and the nature of the very marriage partner are mainly to 
be judged from Venus. 


In addition, the fifth will be indicative of dating and boyfriend-girlfriend 
relationships and the twelfth is very much a house of sex as it is the house of 
bed pleasures. Venus is not the same as Cupid, who is a separate entity. In 
the Vedic scheme, Cupid is referred to as Kamadev. 


The last of the seven major "planets" is Saturn, just as his day, Saturday, is 
the last day of the week. One of Saturn's Sanskrit names is Surya-Putra, 
because he is the son of Surya, the Sun God, and Chaya, shadow. Saturn 
has apparently taken after his mother as darkness and shadow are indicated 
by him. It naturally follows that themes such as occultism, mysticism, hidden 
secrets and the unknown all come under his domain. 


Another of Saturn's nomenclature is Shanaish-char, which refers to the fact 
that it is a slow-moving planet. Actually, in the Puranas the slowness of 


Saturn is attributed to the fact that he is lame. This is because one of his feet 
was cut off at the ankle by Ravana, the enemy of Rama. At one point 
Ravana herded the planets into the eleventh house where all planets are 
productive of good. But in order to spite Ravana, Saturn moved into the 
house of loss at a crucial moment, for which reason Ravana threw his disc at 
his ankles and made Saturn lame. 


This Puranic anecdote is instructive because it confirms that not only is 
Saturn slow, but that he is a planet which causes obstacles. In predictive 
astrology impediments - hidden and otherwise - have been observed to be 
caused by Saturn. 


The slowness of Saturn is indicative of another one of the planet's main 
indications, time. Saturn gives his results slowly, and often after long 
waiting, because he is the planet of time. The concept expressed in common 
parlance by saying that "time is on one's side" is certainly Saturnian. One 
would need a strong Saturn in one's chart to benefit through waiting, 
patience or the passage of time. The story of the tortoise and the hare smacks 
of this Saturnian theme. 


Any instruments of time also relate to Saturn’s nature. This is very much so 
in the case of sundials because they tell time through sunlight and shadow; 
again, shadows correspond to Saturn. 


Astrology corresponds to Saturn insofar as it involves an element of time. 
Astrology is principally a matter of timing karmic reactions by interpreting 
astronomical symbols. We have already pointed out that Mercury is the 
planet of abstractive intelligence and that it is, therefore, the chief planet of 
astrology. However, any Mercurial indication in a chart would have to be 
kissed by the influence of Saturn (e.g., sign occupation, aspect) to manifest 
along astrological lines. Thus mysticism involving time is to be divined by 
Saturn. 


In a way, Saturn is supreme amongst planets precisely because it is 
representative of time, time being an aspect of the Supreme. Time is finality. 
It is the most certain thing in the world and the last word. We have already 


quoted Shree Krishna is the Bhagavad Gita, (11.32), wherein the Blessed 
Lord says "Time I am, the great destroyer of the worlds, and I have come to 
engage all people." Saturn indicates the will of the Supreme because it is 
indicative of aspect of time. For this reason Saturn is named Adrishta or 
"unseen," because the effects of time are so subtle that they often go 
unnoticed. 


Along the same vein, Saturn has the title of Ayushkaraka, the planetary 
indicator of death. Actually, ayush means breath. The Vedic culture had this 
conception of longevity, that it was measured by the amount of breaths that 
one takes. So because Saturn is the planet of time and one's very breath, he 
is the natural indicator of longevity. Maybe for this reason Saturn rides a 
vulture. It goes without saying that graveyards and crematoriums correspond 
to this ringed orb. 


And as death is Saturnine, so is sickness. Saturn is the karaka (natural 
indicator) of sickness. Specifically, illnesses caused by depression and worry 
such as ulcers, long-drawn out diseases and cancer are Saturnine. Sickness 
and medical astrology are practically a study unto themselves, encompassing 
such varied indicators as the house of disease (the sixth), the ascendant, the 
ascendant lord and the eighth house. But know that the karaka of disease is 
Saturn and that indications for bad health or sickness will manifest through 
his planetary periods and sub periods. 


Not only do death and sickness correspond to Saturn, but the period of life 
in which they typically occur also corresponds to Saturn. Saturn, as well as 
the last few houses of a horoscope, are indicative of one's final days. 


Since Saturn is representative of such absolute and dreaded karmas as time, 
sickness and death, it should be obvious by now that this planet is not a 
gentle benefic such as Venus or the Moon. Unless otherwise sublimated, 
Saturn is a harsh planet by nature. In 300 Important Combinations, B.V. 
Raman describes the basic nature of this planet as "...mean, cruel, 
undignified and sinful." Other adjectives which well describe the basic 
nature of Saturn are harsh, caustic, and cold. 


This is a bit different to the way in which Satur is typically depicted in 
western astrology. In western astrology, Saturn is associated with sympathy, 
Aquarianism, and socialism which benefits the masses, all of which is true 
when Saturn is favorably placed. For example, a sublimated Saturn imparts 
an element of discipline and makes one serious. Saturn helps one to establish 
parameters, and he helps one to channel energies and remain on track. Such 
a Saturn might see one an auditor or a person that checks on others, or some 
kind of enforcer such as a policeman; the specifics would depend on the 
other planetary arrangements. When Saturn is favorable, the ngidity of this 
planet manifests in a productive way. For example, one might become a 
strict administrator or one might work as a foreman amongst workers. Saturn 
represents the laboring class of men to begin with, so when he is favorable 
in a chart, one might have some status among laborers or benefit somehow 
through labor. And the stubbornness of Saturn would make one determined. 


But all too often Saturn acts as a harbinger of unfavorable karma from the 
past whose reactions are visited upon us in the present life. In this more 
typical vein, Satum's influence in a chart sees an individual suffer 
subjugations; he ends ups in subservient positions and dependency. 
Employment situations where one barely gets by would be indicative of this. 
Limitation and restriction are Saturn's typical way. As an extreme example, 
jails and imprisonment are imposed by Saturn. Poverty and lack are 
Saturnian indications, as is begging. 


Another basic trait of Saturn's is communicated by his title Dukhakaraka, the 
planetary indicator of sorrows. In fact, sadness in its varying degrees, 
whether it be called melancholy, gloom, grief or depression, is indicated by 
Saturn. 


In a similar sense, Saturn indicates serious and somber moods. This is why 
Saturn is such a philosophical planet. Actually, to be sad and philosophical 
are practically the same thing; one brings on the other. When one 
experiences the expansive, joyful moods of Jupiter, for example, one does 
not exactly wax philosophical. But when one experiences sadness, one does 
tend to become philosophical about life. 


Which leads us to the question of vairagya or the mood of renunciation. J.N. 


Bhasin appropriately used the term "dispassion" to express the vairagya 
mood imparted by Saturn. The detachment and philosophical outlook 
caused by Saturn's impact leads one toward renunciation. It is possible that 
Jupiter only involves us in religiosity for material gain, in other words, 
religion with the idea of "give us this day our daily bread." However, the 
Saturnian mood can practically lift the anchor of material enjoyment and 
facilitate self-realization. So for real progress in spiritual life, Saturn must be 
sublimated by some type of religious influence; for example, the occupation 
of a pious sign such as Pisces or a pious house such as the Dharma-stan 
(ninth). 


Back to a more mundane vein, agriculture is another main indication of 
Saturn's. How could it be that a planet which indicates death is also 
indicative of growth and life? What is the astrological rationale for this? 
Well, remember that a main trait of Saturn is slowness. An intrinsic quality 
of any kind of plant life is slow growth. And agriculture requires a great 
amount of labor to come about. Labor also belongs to Saturn’s category; it is 
not at all indicated by Jupiter, whose results fall into place with little effort, 
such as income from investment. One sits back and waits for income from 
investments; in the case of agriculture, one has to work hard in order to 
eventually harvest a field. Lastly, remember that Saturn is a planet of 
shadow, darkness and hidden things. All plant life can be generally defined 
as being sustained by roots in the ground- the underground and roots are 
Saturn’s domain. Following this same logic, hair and teeth are represented 
by Saturn. At any rate, by dint of the specific nature of the planet Saturn and 
the basic idiosyncrasies of agriculture, it is astro "logical" and apparent that 
the planet of agriculture could be no other. 


And since dark and hidden places correspond to Saturn, the reader should 
know that tunnels, interiors, cavities, mines and extractive industries in 
general are Saturn’s indications. The petroleum industry is Saturnian, 
especially as the color which Saturn stands for is black. So is the coal 
industry. 


We have mentioned that labor corresponds to Saturn. It merits mention that 
Saturn is overwhelmingly the planet of the labor class, the poor, the masses, 
servants and the sudra caste of India. Therefore, industrial workers, miners, 
agricultural workers, slaves, labor unions, groundskeepers, masons and 


construction workers of all types are the children of Saturn. Since iron and 
steel are the metals of Saturn, the steel industry and its workers are 
represented by it. (Lead is also a metal indicated by Saturn). 


Thus Saturn is seen to be a major planet which deals with undeniable 
aspects of life such as work, old age, disease, time and death itself. There is 
nothing peripheral about Saturn. 


In addition to the seven major planets, Vedic astrology considers the 
Northern and Southern Nodes of the Moon, known in Sanskrit as the Rahu- 
Ketu axis. These are called the Dragon's Head and Dragon's Tail in Western 
astrology. In scientific parlance, they are referred to as the magnetic nodes of 
the Moon. They don't really have physical shape or form, as do the other 
planets, but they do exist as points of magnetic influence which the Vedic 
sages deemed to influence human affairs. Their existence was even known 
to the Mayan Indians of the Yucatan and Central America who used their 
coordinates in order to calculate eclipses of the Sun and Moon, as have 
modern astronomers. 


At this point, it is probably appropriate to point out that Vedic astrology 
does not consider the outer planets Uranus, Neptune or Pluto. This does not 
mean that they were unknown to the Vedic sages. In the Mahabharata, a 
reference is made to a planet called Sweta and another planet called 
Mahapata, which are Neptune and Uranus, respectively. After all, the Vedic 
sages were definitely aware of the magnetic nodes, which don't have 
physical form, so why wouldn’t they be aware of those outer gas giants? 
Keep in mind that the knowledge available to the Vedic sages was not 
simply empiric; the source of their knowledge was introspection. Their lives 
were guided by the Supersoul to whom they were receptive because of their 


purity. 


It seems apparent, however, that the sages didn't deem the influence of those 
planets to be substantial enough to warrant inclusion in the astrological 
scheme of things. Some things can only be understood through the disciplic 
succession because they aren't readily perceived by empiric means. We don't 
know exactly why the sages didn't include the outer planets in their 
astrological scheme; we don't know what their reasoning was. Were we to 


speculate on possible logical explanations, it could simply be that those 
planets are too far away to be influential. There is an invisible barrier around 
the solar system, which is referred to in the Vedic literature as the Loka- 
Loka mountains. It is demarcated by the outer limits of the orbit of Satur. 
The planets within the Loka-Loka barrier are deemed to be illuminating and 
the ones outside of it not so. Maybe this has something to do with their 
exclusion from the scheme of Vedic astrology. 


In the case of Pluto, it could even be that this planet is simply too small to 
have any effect. Modern astronomers inform us that Pluto is only a few 
hundred kilometers across, merely the size of many asteroids. In fact, the 
scientific, astronomical community even stripped Pluto of its status as a 
planet, primarily for this reason. And it is so far away! As such, is it likely to 
influence human affairs as a planet? The point is that when we go outside 
the framework of knowledge given to us by the sages we are subject to error 
because of the imperfect nature of empiric processes, such as our very sense 
perception or our logical reasoning. The sages have given us a very 
functional system of astrology, so why tinker with it? 


At any rate, the Dragon's Head and the Dragon's Tail, Rahu and Ketu, 
were considered by the Vedic sages, so let us now consider them, too. There 
are two Vedic dictums which shine light on the basic nature of these two 
"planets" which have been rather popularized by Dr. Raman: Shanivad 
Rahu meaning that Rahu partakes of the basic nature of Saturn and Kujavad 
Ketu meaning that Ketu partakes of the basic nature of Mars. Just as Saturn 
is a planet of melancholy and caustic nature, so is Rahu. And as Mars is has 
energetic, fiery and explosive qualities, so does Ketu. 


Another main trait of these planets is exaggeration. They heighten and 
exaggerate the indications of the signs, planets, houses and constellations 
that surround them. The way in which the nodes act on the mind is very 
illustrative of this trait. The normal state of the mind is calm, even-keeled, 
and certainly not fearful. But when Rahu and Ketu substantially influence 
the Moon (karaka of the mind), fanaticism, phobias, paranoia and hysteria 
are typically noted. And as their normal movement is retrograde, it is 
interesting to note that they stand for things which are opposite the norm and 
different. For example, Rahu is a planet of revolt and revolution. Revolution 
is certainly the opposite of the normal state of affairs. 


One other example would be heights. Human beings are normally found on 
the ground. But when Rahu and Ketu are favorable in a chart, the native 
will have good karma in relation to heights. Such a person would not be 
afraid of heights and may even have work along the lines of a window 
cleaner of skyscrapers. Of course, most people don't become window 
cleaners. But the point is that a person with a good Rahu and Ketu (a weak 
Moon not withstanding) would handle heights well while a person with an 
afflicted Rahu is typically observed to have trouble with heights. Again, this 
is another example of how Rahu and Ketu have an effect which is opposite 
of the norm. 


In the 34th chapter of the Bhrhat Parashara Hora Shastra, 16th verse, 
Maharishi Parashara describes a very important trait of Rahu and Ketu 
which probably has the greatest impact of all; we may term this trait the 
"reflective factor." There, the Rishi states that Rahu and Ketu give 
predominantly the effects as due their conjunction with other planets or as 
due to the lord of the house they occupy. 


This is very important because they are chaya grahas, shadowy planets. By 
definition, a shadow reflects the reality of another, although it is not an exact 
duplication. So as Rahu and Ketu are "shadowy planets," according to the 
Maharishi, they will predominantly reflect the results of other influences. 


This reflective nature of the nodes, besides being outlined by Parashara, is 
corroborated in the puranic histories. As the narration goes, the demigods 
retired to the assembly hall of Indra to partake of the nectar of immortality. 
This was done after churning the mountain Mandara wherefrom the nectar 
came. 


At that time the Daitya Rahu disguised himself as one of the demigods and 
sipped some of the nectar. He was discovered by the Sun and the Moon 
who reported this espionage to Vishnu, who in turn severed Rahu's head 
with his disc. Afterwards, because Rahu had swallowed some of the nectar 
his hinder portion remained alive though headless. This hinder portion 
offered prayers to Vishnu and performed a sacrifice for which reason 


Vishnu awarded him a serpent's head with a reddish face. 


There are actually several lessons to be derived from this story. First of all, 
that Rahu and Ketu are reptilian in nature. Ketu was even directly given a 
reptile's head. So the comments that we made before about having strong 
karma in relation to the things that Rahu and Ketu represent holds true in 
this sense, too; when the Rahu-Ketu axis is afflicted in a chart, or overly or 
negatively influences the Sun or the Moon, then one is fearful of snakes and 
reptiles. Conversely, when Rahu and Ketu are well placed, one seems to 
have a natural sympathy for reptiles. In this case, one would not have fear of 
snakes or have bad experiences with them. 


Another lesson to be gleaned from this narrative is that Rahu and Ketu are 
enemies of the Sun and Moon. Their influence on the luminaries is never 
favorable; abnormal emotional states such as we have already gone over, 
e.g., Suspicion, paranoia, worry and fanaticism, typically result. 


What is maybe most significant is the fact that, being in the assembly hall of 
the gods, Rahu acted like one of them. In other words, he practically took on 
their appearance and reflected his surroundings. In predictive astrology also, 
Rahu and Ketu act in a similar fashion to a wild card and reflect the 
influence of their sign lords, planetary associations and even of any aspects 
they receive. This is the import of the above-mentioned verse. 


At the same time, one wants to remember that they still have their own 
results to give independent of their reflective nature. This is all in keeping 
with the above-cited verse of Parashara Muni because the rishi simply states 
that the nodes have a "predominantly" reflective nature. The rishi does not 
state that they are absolute chameleons or transparent mediums. At the same 
time they retain their own nature and have their own results to give, in 
accordance with their own nature as we have already gone over. 


The conundrum has to do with how much of which. In other words, when 
various factors influence Rahu and Ketu, which imposes itself the most? 
And to what degree do Rahu and Ketu give their own results? Do these 
become mostly subjugated or mostly manifest, the "reflective factor" being 


something secondary? 


Experience shows that the nodes will primarily give their own results and 
the results of their sign lord, over and above the results of any associations 
and aspects that they may receive. This is basically so only as the reflective 
results do not contradict their basic indications in terms of their innate nature, 
house position and sign position. 

Planetary Friendships 
Sun 
Friend: Jupiter, Mars, Moon 
Enemy: Saturn, Venus, Rahu, Ketu 
Neutral: Mercury 


Moon 

Friend: Sun, Mercury 

Enemy:: Rahu, Ketu 

Neutral:: Saturn, Venus, Jupiter, Mars 


Mars 

Friend: Moon, Jupiter, Sun 
Enemy: Mercury 

Neutral: Saturn, Venus 


Mercury 

Friend: Rahu, Venus, Sun 
Enemy: Moon 

Neutral: Jupiter, Mars, Saturn 


Jupiter 

Friend: Sun, Mars, Moon 
Enemy: Mercury, Venus 
Neutral: Saturn 


Venus 

Friend: Mercury, Satur, Rahu 
Enemy: Sun, Moon 

Neutral: Jupiter, Mars 


Saturn 

Friend: Venus, Mercury, Rahu 
Enemy: Sun, Mars, Moon 
Neutral: Jupiter 


Planet—---------------—---- Grain/Cereal 
Sun----------------------------------- Wheat 
Moon------------------------------------ Rice 
Mars------------------------------ Red Dhal 
Mercury------------------------ Mung Dhal 
Jupiter------------------ Garbonzo Beans 
V enus------------------------- Lima Beans 
Saturn-------------------- Sesame Seeds 
Planet-—-------—------ Age 
Sun----------------------- 50 
Moon--------------------- 70 
Mars---------------------- 16 
Mercury------------------- i 
Jupiter------------------- 30 
Venus---------------- 16/20 
Saturn------------------ 100 


Chapter Ten: Sign Placement of Planets 
How a planet reacts to its placement in the different signs is one of the main 
elements of astrology. There is ample information regarding the indications 
of the planets in different signs in all the classical astrological literature as 
well as in modern writings. In fact, these correspondences are pretty much 
standard and commonly known. Often, it is simply a matter of applying the 
logic of astrology. For example, the Sun in either of the signs of Mercury is 
supposed to make one shine at grammar and composition. This simply 


makes sense because the Sun represents our very soul, so wherever he goes, 
he is indicative of our interests and instincts, that is to say, of tendencies and 
abilities carried forward from past lives. And Mercury is the planet of 
communication, grammar, reading, and composition. So the Sun in a 
Mercurial sign would naturally contribute towards a Mercurial knack. 


In keeping with our theme of fidelity to the original Parashari system, many 
of the following indications have been gleaned from the Brihat Jataka or 
Saravali, which follow in the Parashari tradition. Experience and the natural 
logic of astrology have also been factored in. 


The luminaries are of principal importance as the Sun and the Moon stand 
for our soul and our emotional mind, respectively. The Sun is indicative of 
our very will, our basic characteristics and instincts. 


The Sun- 


In Aries: Aries is the first sign of the zodiac and the Sun is the planet of 
generation. No wonder that the Sun here has been described as pioneering 
and original. Aries is a fiery sign, so the Sun in Aries makes one rash, 
challenging, ambitious, and active. The autocratic instincts of the Sun are in 
full force here as Aries is his sign of exaltation, where he is at his strongest. 


For this reason, one with the Sun in Aries might have a prominent interest in 
his soul as the Sun is the Atmakaraka, the planetary indicator of the soul. 
Temple worship would be prominent in the life of such a person if other 
planetary indications at all support an interest in spiritual life. This is because 
the Sun relates to temples. Notice that since ancient times, when Vedic 
culture was dispersed all over the planet, the day of the Sun (Sunday) has 
been a day of church-going and worship. 


As Aries is such a favorable sign for the Sun, its placement here favors all 
the typical solar indications. For example, one's bones and skeletal system, 
one's vision, health, fame, status, one's relationship with the government, as 
well as one's sense of honor and dignity are all strengthened by having the 


Sun in Aries. 


In Taurus: The Sun here gives one a domestic, artistic and sensual 
orientation on the deep level of the soul. One is confident with the Sun in 
Taurus, as Taurus is the sign of the bull; it provides quite an environment of 
dominance for the fiery, soulful Sun to occupy. 


Since Taurus is an earthy sign the Sun can make one practical and possibly 
inclined towards working with the earth when it sits in Taurus, depending 
on other combinations. One area of interest could be livestock and 
shepherding, as Taurus stands for these. 


Brihat Jataka mentions that one "deals with cloth" when the Sun occupies 
Taurus. How interesting that the Moon is the planet of clothing and cotton, 
and that Taurus is the sign of exaltation of the Moon. 


In Gemini: As mentioned above, Gemini is a sign of communication, 
composition, grammar, and language, so people with the Sun in this sign 
have an interest in such. What is perhaps more intrinsic is that Gemini is an 
airy sign, therefore intellectual and, in fact, a sign of both abstractive and 
expressive intelligence as it is represented by human symbols. Under this 
light, it is no wonder that the Sun in Gemini inclines one towards 
astronomy, science, languages and technical skills, and gives a scholarly 
disposition. 


Due to the abstractive and expressive nature of Gemini, a person with the 
Sun here might take a natural interest in computer sciences, programming 
and any type of work having to do with codes and symbolism. Combined 
with Venusian influence, an artistic knack will be present. 


A rash and quicksilver element is communicated in keeping with the nature 
of Gemini, also flexibility and an affinity for change. 


In Cancer: Cancer is a watery, feminine and emotional sign and, when 


occupied by the Sun, the Sun’s abrasiveness subsides. This helps to make 
one warm-hearted, emotional, loving, sincere and sentimental. 


This placement suggests sensitivity because Cancer is a very sensitive sign, 
represented by the crab, no less, and the Sun is so centrally indicative of 
one's personality. 


Sun-in-Cancer people have an affinity for the water; they like the ocean, 
beaches, swimming and boating. Some connection with the Navy might be 
present as the Sun is a military planet and Cancer is watery. 


Brahminical skills and qualities are latent in people born with this placement. 
For example, teaching and coaching come naturally to people with the Sun 
in Cancer. The "peacefulness, self-control, austerity, purity, tolerance, 
honesty, wisdom, knowledge and religiousness," which Shree Krishna 
ascribes to the brahminical nature in the eighteenth chapter of the Gita, is not 
foreign to Cancer people, other combinations notwithstanding. Neither is a 
meditative and thoughtful mind foreign to the Cancer bom. The cultivation 
of brahminical dharma in previous lives is suggested. 


Brihat Jataka mentions that those born with the Sun in Cancer are "expert 
astrologers." This is because the Sun in this sign of feelings is possessed of 
intuition. 


Indolence is another quality ascribed to this placement. It is only logical that 
a watery placement tends to extinguish the solar fire and energy. 


In Leo: Leo is the Sun's own sign, so the natural solar qualities find full 
expression here. Independence, organizing capacity, generosity, pride, 
ambition, ego, dignity, loyalty, forcefulness, and leadership abilities are all 
communicated by the Sun in Leo. To better understand this placement, 
remember that the Sun and Leo are both of a royal nature. In fact, all of the 
above-mentioned qualities are simply royal qualities. 


Having the Sun in its own sign reinforces the autocratic nature. So one born 
with the Sun here would be uncomfortable among equals and in subservient 
positions. 


Leo is a fixed sign, so the Sun here can make one stubborn and unbending 
in one's perspective. 


In Virgo: As in the case of Gemini, the Sun occupies a sign of Mercury, so 
again there will be a natural interest insofar as activities which require 
skillfulness, intelligence and abstraction. This is especially so in relation to 
communication or business skills, but also in the area of mathematics, 
information science, astronomy, astrology, and science in general. 


The Sun in Virgo suggests a reader and especially a writer, as the Sun is a 
planet of generation in a literary sign. There will be a knack for poetry, 
music and art. 


The Sun in Virgo specifically smacks of manual dexterity; one may be 
expressive with his hands because the asterism Hasta falls within Virgo. The 
symbol of Hasta is a hand, and this asterism contributes manual skills. 


Virgo is a feminine sign represented by a young virgin girl. So the Sun here 
suggests gentleness, for one thing. Furthermore, maternal qualities, altruism 
and generosity are imparted by this location. The boldness of the Sun in this 
sign of a little girl becomes sublimated- organizing abilities are 
compromised. One with the Sun here has been described as reserved and 
even timid. 


Abilities requiring intelligence, expression and abstraction are naturally 
found in people with the Sun in Virgo, unless otherwise blocked (by the 
nodes, for instance). So just as in the case of the Sun in Gemini, the Virgo 
Sun can give an interest in science, mathematics, astronomy, and astrology. 


In Libra: Libra is a sign of equality and democracy, a sign where the 


autocratic Sun is not comfortable. In fact, it is the Sun's sign of debilitation. 
So the more noble qualities of the Sun become debased here and one 
becomes arrogant, conceited, cruel, overbearing and too autocratic. Nobility 
is lacking in the heart of the person with the Sun in Libra. 


It is usually written that one becomes inclined to intoxications when the Sun 
sits here. This is a Venusian sign, of course, and Venus is the planet of 
intoxicants. Libra is an airy sign and the Sun a fiery planet, so not only 
liquors but also intoxicants that are smoked may be indicated by the Sun in 
this sign. 


Physical complaints which may accompany the Sun in Libra would have to 
do with eyesight, heart trouble, osteoporosis and digestion, as he is the fire 
of digestion and represents one's vision, the heart, and bones. 


People with the Sun here desire equanimity in their hearts but always feel 
disturbance, maybe through their own rashness, arrogance and autocratic 
attitudes. Still, their scheme of values would give importance to fairness, 
justice and equality because that is simply the nature of Libra and the Sun is 
always the indicator of instincts and characteristics, even if he is 
uncomfortable in this sign. 


As the solar characteristics become unrefined in Libra one becomes blunt 
and frank. Remember that Libra is a masculine sign and that the Sun is fiery. 
The fiery and autocratic nature of the Sun becomes unbridled here and one 
becomes tactless and rebellious. Trouble with authorities and the 
goverment arise. 


In Scorpio: Scorpio is a watery sign, which at first thought, isn't the best 
element for the Sun. But the ruler of Scorpio is Mars, who is favorable 
towards the Sun, and it is a sign of hot temperament, which is in keeping 
with the basic nature of the Sun. The upshot is that the Sun does well in this 
sign; the basic solar characteristics manifest well when the Sun occupies 
Scorpio. For example, some typical descriptions of the Sun in this sign have 
to do with the native being adventurous, bold, reckless, and combative. 


Tactical ability and an instinct for strategy are innate when the Sun occupies 
Scorpio. After all, Scorpio belongs to a logical military planet; Mars, while 
the Sun is himself is a military planet. 


The Sun here would, of course, give one an active and energetic heart. The 
idea of a person with passionate, heated emotions would correspond well to 
the Sun in Scorpio. 


Another main characteristic of the Sun in Scorpio would be sensitivity. 
Scorpio is a reptile sign represented by a creature of extreme sensitivity as 
we have already delineated upon in the section dealing with the signs of the 
zodiac. So the Sun, ruling the heart and instincts of a person, would make 
one sensitive when he is placed here. The Sun in this sign is suggestive of a 
flashing temper. 


Doctors and surgeons correspond to the Sun par excellence while Scorpio 
has been observed to be related to hospitals, clinics and such. The 
implication is obvious. 


The fact that Scorpio is a secretive sign shouldn't be overlooked, either. The 
Sun here could be supportive of corresponding activities such as research 
and espionage. 


In Sagittarius: In Sagittarius, the Sun contributes a pious heart because this 
sign is so pious to begin with. It is the ninth sign of the zodiac, the ninth 
being the house of dharma or religion in Vedic astrology. 


This is a sign of projection, not at all an inward sign. The Sun in Sagittarius 
would therefore make one ambitious, a doer who makes his mark on the 
world around him. An outward perspective would be present. 


Sagittarius is a fiery sign, so the presence of the Sun in this sign would give 
a temper. One would not only have the heart of a fighter in a resistant sense, 


but the first instinct would be to go on the offensive due to the projective 
nature of the sign. In fact, the Sun here would give the heart of a chivalrous 
warrior. This is a good placement for a military man. Elvis Presley had the 
Sun in Sagittarius, and when he was drafted into the army, he ended up in 
tanks, which are definitely weapons of military projection and not defensive 
in nature. 


Compromise would not come naturally to a people with the Sun in 
Sagittarius; in their hearts they would resist exterior pressure like two 
positive poles against each other. 


People with the Sun here would have a desire deep down to be frank and 
honest about things. They would naturally be straightforward in their 
dealings. Their way would be honorable and dignified, as the positive solar 
characteristics thrive here; one could certainly expect the person with the 
Sun in Sagittarius to be independent-minded. 


In Capricom: Traits opposite to the Sun's are natural to Capricorn just as the 
lord of this sign, Saturn, is the planet of darkness and shadow while the Sun 
is an entity of light. So without considering other combinations, we could 
say that the Sun in Capricorn makes one lazy instead of energetic. Capricorn 
is a sign of ignorance or tamas, so here the more noble instincts of the Sun 
suffer. The solar pride radiated by the King of Planets becomes arrogance 
when refracted by Capricorn, and traditional morality is lacking. The Sun 
here gives a streak of coldness and even a mean element because that is the 
nature of Capricorn. 


Remember that the lord of Capricom, Saturn, is the planet of time par 
excellence. People with the Sun here are patient and naturally know how to 
use time to their advantage. On the other hand they tend to procrastinate. 


Because Capricom is an earthy sign, people born with this placement can be 
practical workers. In the same vein, people with a Capricorn Sun understand 
labor and hard work because Saturn, the lord of Capricorn, is the planet of 
such. The practical side of the Sun in Capricorn cannot be underestimated; it 
orients Capricorn-Sun people towards achievement. They can be precocious 


people who don't stay in their position, and find a way to elbow their way to 
the top. If the Sun has any other affliction to deal with on top of being in 
Capricorn, then the placement can indicate that one gets bogged down with 
work and sees work as drudgery. 


In Aquarius: In this sign, the Sun is a fiery planet in a masculine sign, a sign 
of his enemy and a rather coarse planet to boot. So a person born under this 
combination has an element of harshness in his heart. 


Of course, suppressed anger easily transforms into sadness, which is a 
pronounced trait of this sign. Unhappiness is typically ascribed to one with 
the Sun in Aquarius; the Sun here gives a melancholy soul. In addition, 
Brihat Jataka points out that, for both Capricorn and Aquarius, "one will 
engage in deeds unsuited to his rank" (Usha & Shasi, chapter 18, text 4). In 
other words, one adopts a profession or acts in a way which doesn't 
correspond to one's position in life. 


Aquarius is a mystic sign. Since the Sun represents the soul, mystic abilities 
and intuition from previous lives will be available to one with the Sun in 
Aquarius. 


If positive combinations are present in the chart, the Sun in Aquarius can 
give socialistic leaning and sympathy for the masses. 


And as one might expect with the Sun in a sign of Saturn's, good karma in 
relation to time and labor will be present if the placement is favorable in 
terms of lordship, house position and other variables. 


In Pisces: Pisces is a watery, feminine sign which sublimates the rougher 
characteristics of the Sun. Consequently, one born with the Sun in Pisces 
can have a peaceful heart, is kind, easy-going, and sweet. 


A cheerful disposition naturally corresponds to Pisces, what to speak of 
when the Sun is placed in it; one becomes positive and upbeat in his heart of 


hearts. 


Keep in mind that Pisces is represented by two skittish fish which dart in 
different directions. So when the planet of one's heart occupies this sign, one 
tends to be nervous, shy and timid deep within. 


In fact, the feminine gender and dual nature of this sign (it is neither fixed 
nor moveable but both) makes one flexible and pliable. 


The Brihat Jataka mentions another indication in relation to the Sun's 
occupation of this feminine sign. Viraha Mihir points out that one "will be 
respected by women." Good karma in relation to women is suggested by 
having the Sun, the planet of one's heart and soul, in a positive, feminine 
sign, especially since the whole atmosphere of Pisces is Jovian and therefore 
agreeable and helpful towards the Sun. 


A satvic (honorable) planet in such a pious sign makes a person naturally 
religious. And since it is such a brahminical sign one becomes priestly and 
instinctively has good teaching ability. 


Lastly about the Sun in this sign, Brihat Jataka tells us that "one will become 
rich by dealing in the produce of water." This just points out a predisposition 
by having such a main indicator, an indicator of consciousness, instinct and, 
indeed, one's very soul, in a watery sign. So as long as other juxtapositions 
are supportive, a person with the Sun in Pisces would be inclined to profit in 
relation to water, liquids, the ocean, transport, the sale of pearls, et cetera. 
For example, if a person with the Sun in Pisces had a piece of property with 
a spring on it, he might naturally warm up to the idea of bottling water for 
sales to the public. Whether or not such a person would be successful or not 
would depend on the total combinations in the chart itself. But the Sun in 
Pisces would incline one towards dealing in water or water products and, as 
always with the luminaries, this would be a soulful tendency carried over 
from a previous life. 


The Moon- 


The Moon is also a major indicator in a chart because it presides over the 
mind. By way of opposite definition, in the Sun are invested one's instincts; 
the experience of the soul is channeled through the Sun, so to speak, and 
made accessible according to one's merit. The Moon as the emotional mind 
is also conditioned by previous lives, but we may say that the mind is not is 
not buried by false ego (ahankara) as much as the soul (which corresponds 
to the Sun). So the Moon is more indicative of our feelings, cravings and 
urges; the Moon’s feelings are closer to our everyday awareness than the 
Sun’s distant, almost lost instincts. Certainly, the Moon can be best 
understood by its interaction with the different signs as follows. 


In Aries: Aries is a fiery sign, of course, and the Moon here gives an 
energetic and active mind. A person with this placement will be outgoing. 
This is different from, say, the depression and procrastination that result 
from lunar placement in Capricorn. 


Actually, the Moon here tends to make one impulsive and excitable. In this 
sign, the Moon sees one fond of arguing. One is competitive and truculent. 
Needless to say, with the Moon in a warrior sign belonging to Mars, one is 
brave. 


A logical frame of mind is displayed when the Moon is in Aries, but one is 
much more of an action person than a pure intellectual. 


Because Aries is the first sign of the zodiac, an Aries-Moon person would 
show initiative and be enterprising. 


In Taurus: When the planet of the mind occupies Taurus, one is steady and 
determined because it is an earthy sign, but stubborn as its symbol is the 
bull. Authoritarian is a good adjective in this case. Such people are 
independent and nobody marks their path nor leads them in life. 


The Moon in Taurus suggests beauty, and gives rounded features, especially 


if this combination influences the ascendant or the second house. The Moon, 
of course, stands for the mind while Taurus is a sign of luxury, comforts, art, 
music and pleasures. So when a person's Moon falls here, he naturally has a 
mind for such karmas. 


In Gemini: Gemini is an airy, hence intellectual sign. When occupied by the 
Moon, a person likes to use his or her intelligence, i.e., is a thinker. It is a 
literary sign, a sign of languages, and of communication. The Gemini-Moon 
person is, of course, attracted to these types of activities. 


Given the fact that the lord of this sign is the planet of abstraction and 
rational intelligence, computer science and programming are natural for 
people with a Gemini Moon. The Moon in this sign reinforces combinations 
relating to science and technological skills and such indications can easily 
flow through the lunar planetary periods. The Gemini-Moon individual is 
dexterous and skillful in general. 


Change, variety and excitement are attractive to the Gemini mind. Unless 
the Moon has a bit of brightness to its credit, however, the Gemini mind 
finds itself subject to oscillation and instability. 


It has been observed that this person has a knack for doing two things at 
once. Unfortunately, when the Moon lacks brightness, the Gemini-Moon 
person has trouble being steady and leaves things half-done. 


Brihat Jataka mentions "skillfulness in sex" (Usha & Shasi, chapter 17, text 
3) for these people. This is natural as a man and woman walking hand-in- 
hand symbolize the sign. But due to the wavering nature of Gemini they 
tend to be impulsive, streaky and unstable in relationships and sexual 
matters- especially if the Moon lacks brightness. 


A raised nose and curly hair are typical physical characteristics of people 
born with the Moon in Gemini. 


The Moon in an airy sign can make one a stargazer. 


In Cancer: Cancer is the very sign of the Moon and basic Cancerian traits 
are reinforced when the Moon occupies it. For example, one's sentimental 
and emotional side becomes more pronounced. And Cancer is definitely a 
sensitive sign to begin with, so one's perceptivity becomes heightened when 
the Moon occupies it. This perceptivity would become more and more akin 
to sensitivity and instability to the degree that the Moon became less and less 
bright. Soumya or softness is attributed to both sign and planet, so when the 
Moon occupies Cancer, a very nice and sincere personality results which 
doesn't like to hurt people. Maternal instincts would be another heightened 
trait. One would be moody, meditative and thoughtful, too, in keeping with 
the mutual mental nature of Cancer and the Moon. The Cancer-Moon 
person takes to water like a fish and loves beaches and sandy areas like a 
crustacean; of course, Cancer and the Moon are watery and Cancer's symbol 
is a crab. 


The Moon in Cancer forms an intuitive personality that is more guided by 
feelings and emotions than by, for instance, logic or duty, as would be the 
case of the Mercurial and solar personalities, respectively. If the Moon were 
weak, then such a person would be overly sentimental and easily 
manipulated by others. 


This is a feminine sign and the Moon a feminine orb; this is surely why 
Varaha Mihir, in Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shasi, chapter 17, text 4), states that 
one with the Moon in Cancer "will be subject to the influence of women." 
What this means is that one will be sympathetic to women and the feminine 
point of view. The kind of personality is formed (other combinations 
notwithstanding) which warms up to women, is apt to feel encouraged by 
them and is nicely disposed towards them. Of course, every man is attracted 
to women, but some personality types seem to feel threatened by women, or 
seem to feel the need to control them, or something along that order. But 
Viraha Mihir suggests that one with the Moon in Cancer would be 
sympathetic towards women, probably due to a like disposition. If the Sun 
and ascendant are in feminine signs, this will be even more so. 


In Leo: The Moon occupies another fiery sign in Leo. So to begin with, the 


same energy and drive that corresponds to the Moon in Aries would also be 
present. Along the same lines, this placement would give a temper, which is 
actually the first thing that the Brihat Jataka says about the Moon in Leo 
(Usha & Shasi) 


But unique results may be attributed to the Moon in Leo, over and above, 
for example, the urge of the Moon in a fiery sign to simply fight and 
challenge; urges which can be ignoble and meaningless. The personality 
formed by the Leo Moon is inspired by dignity, honor, pride and protective 
instincts. The person born with the Moon in Leo feels rather bold, has leader 
instincts, is independent and is straightforward. These results are particular 
of "the predominating deity of everyone's mind" in the sign Leo. 


This type of Moon gives determination because it occupies a fixed sign here. 
There would be no wishy-washiness in the Leo-Moon personality. On the 
other hand, such a placement does not exactly lend itself to flexibility. 


The Moon in Leo also suggests a strong element of ego because of the solar 
influence. The Leo-Moon person sees himself at the center of things. For 
example, a Leo-Moon individual might feel protective because someone has 
offended his ward or generous because a supplicant has humbly requested 
something before him; thus ego is present even in the more self-extending 
side of the Leo personality which are not selfish at first glance. 


Varaha Mihir states that one with the Moon in this sign "will be fond of 
animal food" and that the person will frequent "forests and hills." Of course, 
the symbol of Leo is the lion, who is a carnivore and who frequents hills, 
jungles and forests, such that this result is yet another natural 
correspondence between planet and sign. 


In Virgo: Here again we have a personality with a maternal element, similar 
to the Moon in Cancer. Remember that a young girl bearing nourishment, 
warmth and light represents Virgo. It is a very giving sign; altruism and self- 
sacrifice are attributed to it. Therefore, the Moon here suggests a person with 
evolved emotions. And a similar type of Mercurial enthusiasm is present just 
as when the Moon occupies Gemini. 


As one might expect of a feminine, emotional planet in the sign of a young 
virgin girl, one with the Moon here is rather gracious and "modest" in the 
words of Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shasi, chapter 17, text 6). 


Similar to the Moon in the other Mercurial sign, the Moon in Virgo gives a 
knack for language, literature, art, music, mathematics, technology, science, 
codes, communication and computer programming. All of these correspond 
to the Mercurial element. 


Indeed, Virgo supports any activity requiring skill and intelligence, 
especially abstractive intelligence and representative abilities, which are the 
domain of human beings. Remember that both of Mercury's signs have 
human symbols. In modern times, the Moon in Virgo would give a mind for 
Mercurial activities such as typing or word processing, any kind of record- 
keeping, accounting, filing or work involving numbers. 


One of the asterisms which underlie this sign is Chitra, whose demigod 
symbol (adi-deva) is Vishva-karma, the celestial architect. So a Virgo Moon, 
in Chitra, can support architecture, engineering and any kind of building or 
craftsmanship, too. 


Because Virgo is an earthy sign, an attraction to gardening may be 
communicated when occupied by the Moon. 


The Brihat Jataka describes an artistic knack in terms of music, poetry, art 
and dance. Chitra (the asterism) actually means "the beautiful one" and has 
reference to beautiful pictures that strike one's attention. So placement in the 
asterism Chitra would enhance the artistic nature of one born under the 
Virgo Moon (Chitra’s artistic side is enhanced in Libra). 


But the actual way in which the Virgo skillfulness manifests will be 
indicated by the total influence of the chart. The point is that the Moon in 
Virgo will give an industrious and bright mind, itching to think, understand 


and represent. 


In Libra: Libra is an airy sign, so the Moon here suggests a calculating frame 
of mind, like a businessman. In fact, its cast is vaishya, which means that it 
is a mercantile sign. 


It is a masculine sign, so the mellowness and emtionalism of Cancer and 
Virgo, for example, are not communicated by this placement. 


Probably the most notable trait of the Moon in Libra has to do with an 
attachment for harmony, fair play, and equality. The Moon here indicates a 
mind which peruses a balanced state of affairs in life. This is simple “astro” 
logic as the Moon is indicative of how one feels and wills, while Libra is a 
sign of balance. 


On the other hand, when the Moon lacks brightness, sensitivity will be 
heightened. In this situation, any disturbance will be exaggerated in the 
mind. When the weak moon occupies Libra, imbalance and disturbance are 
the net result. 


Because Libra is both moveable and airy, one with a Libra Moon is rather 
flexible and changeable. They are attached to travel. Here the underlying 
asterism Swati would reinforce this tendency; the Moon in Swati indicates a 
mind which is constantly changing and which cannot be tied down. 


The symbol of Swati is the trader's scale, and the type of place indicated by 
it is a bazaar, or a commercial center. It only makes sense, then, that the 
Libra Moon gives an inclination for doing business. Since this sign belongs 
to Venus, business involving cattle, milk and cattle products is supported by 
the Moon here, especially since the Moon is the planet of milk par 
excellence. 


Another trait of the Moon in Libra may be traced to the ownership of 
Venus; i.e., one is attached to art and music. When the Moon occupies 


Chitra, which extends into this sign from Virgo, this indication is intensified 
and painting is specifically indicated. 


A text in the Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shasi, chapter 17, text 7), which is much 
quoted, mentions that people with the Moon in Libra will have "respect for 
gods, Brahmins and holy men." 


In Scorpio: This is an emotional watery sign, so the Moon here suggests a 
person guided by the heart and feelings. 


The symbol of the sign is, of course, the Scorpion, which is a sensitive and 
secretive creature. A very particular and even touchy personality is produced 
when the Moon occupies through this sign. Such a person is very perceptive 
and conscious of things around him/her. There is not much question of 
tolerance in such a personality or an even keel about things. In fact, the 
Scorpio-Moon personality is even quite revengeful. 


The secretive nature of the scorpion is very evident in the personality born 
under a Scorpio Moon. The mind of such a person naturally operates in a 
secretive mode and the person is attached to privacy. Such people are 
introverted, not at all the outgoing type. 


Scorpions are full of poison and anger, so when the Moon occupies the sign 
of the scorpion, the mind tends to become poisoned with anger. The typical 
Scorpio-Moon personality has a streak of cruelty, gets agitated easily and 
can even be violent tempered. 


Scorpio is the debilitation sign of the Moon, so when it occupies this sign 
suspicion, indecision, and insecurity permeate the mind to one degree or 
another. 


Of course, if the Moon receives benefic influence, for example, an aspect, or 
if it has a good amount of brightness to its credit, then the evil effects will be 
reduced to a great degree. There will be more stability and sympathy to the 


personality. The more positive qualities of the Scorpio Moon, such as its 
resistance, determination (fixed sign), and boundless energy, then tend to 
become channeled in a more positive manner. 


The tendency is for a base attraction for sense gratification when one is born 
under this Moon, along with a beastly sexual appetite. Often one becomes 
touchy with the partner after lovemaking. Bepin Behari observes that “The 
lower type of Scorpio ascendant may not have any type of affection or 
altruism. Once the personal desire is satisfied, the other individual is of no 
value.” (Esoteric Astrology, Page 124) 


In Sagittarius: This last of the fiery signs permeates one's mind with energy 
and fight, and gives a dominating outlook when occupied by the Moon. A 
person feels industrious, positive and is attached to the idea of being 
productive. 


Remember that this is a sign that has to do with projecting and extroverting, 
in keeping with its symbol of an arrow pointed skyward. So a person with 
the Moon in this sign feels like being straightforward and frank. A 
Sagittarius-Moon person doesn't keep his or her feelings inside, nor 
deceives. 


And just as the archer aims high, a Sagittarius Moon imparts an ambitious 
perspective. If the Moon has any brightness at all in Sagittarius, the person 
will be enthused about the idea of success. The Sagittarius mind would 
never lead one to discouragement or resignation, or induce one to give up or 
bend. 


We already know that the ninth place, sign, or house correspond to religion- 
Sagittarius is the ninth sign. Therefore, the Moon here gives a pious mind 
inspired by noble virtues. A conservative mindset evolves and a person's 
mind is uncomfortable around libertine exaggerations and such. 


Naturally, a person with the Moon in a sign represented by a projecting 
arrow doesn't think to back down from threats. The Sagittarius-Moon person 


stands up to challenges and, if anything, goes on the attack. The common 
expression "the best defense is a good offense" smacks of a Sagittarian 
sense. 


In Capricorn: One of the main thrusts behind Capricorn is melancholy and 
sadness. The Moon here is definitely tinged by such qualities, and this 
placement colors one’s mind and feelings. If the Moon lacks brightness and 
suffers any other affliction, this is strongly felt. A stronger Moon will give a 
serious mind with a philosophical quality about it. 


Since time, slowness and delay are part and parcel of Capricorn, its 
occupation by the Moon indicates a mind that has a feel for patience. 


The mode of material nature that governs Capricorn is tamas, or ignorance. 
The unbridled impact of Capricorn on the Moon is to produce a cold, cruel 
and selfish mind. The person feels negative and critical. 


The Capricorn element detracts from shame, so the implication of having the 
orb, which is “the presiding deity of everyone’s mind” in this sign, is 
obvious. In fact, adjectives such as shameless, unscrupulous, low morals, et 
cetera, typically crop up in the standard texts with reference to Capricorn. 
One tendency imparted is precociousness. 


Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shasi, chapter 17, text 10) makes a comment which 
highlights the base nature of a Capricorn Moon, that "a person born with the 
Moon in Capricorn will do deeds of virtue for outward show." 


This is an earthy sign which communicates a practical nature to the mind. So 
a Moon which is energized and positive here makes a person industrious 
and a doer. The Moon in Capricorn is definitely supportive of working with 
earth along the lines of gardening or even agriculture. It produces a mind 
which lends itself to labor and service environments. 


Horasara of Prithuyashas (R. Santhanam, chapter 28, text 10) mentions that 


one will be "attached to women" with a Capricorn Moon. We have already 
pointed out how the classical authors feel that the Moon in a feminine sign 
seems to make one inclined towards women and a feminine perspective. 
This is in keeping with basic astrological rationale. Furthermore, Horasara 
opines that "one will have the affection of older women." This indication 
could manifest in various ways, but the point is that Capricorn is feminine 
and indicative of older things and age, while the Moon is the planet of 
feelings and urges. So the Moon here, in and of itself, gives some kind of 
affection for older women; and a positive Moon gives their approval and 
affection. The influence of an older woman will manifest during the 
planetary periods and sub periods of the Moon in Capricorn. 


Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shasi, chapter 17, text 10) also mentions how the 
mind of the person with the Moon in Capricorn will "readily understand 
what is spoken." A quick mental and intellectual process is intrinsic to 
Capricorn. 


In Aquarius: The Moon is back in a masculine sign here, and one that has a 
bit of roughness and abrasiveness to it. In fact, it is these qualities, which 
describe the Aquarian mind well. 


Surprisingly though, Aquarius has the fame of being a sign connected with 
humanitarian instincts and sympathy for the masses. And since it belongs to 
Saturn, the planet of the poor and downtrodden, this is actually true i 
Aquarius (and the Moon) are sublimated by brightness, benefic aspects and 
occupation, good association, et cetera. Otherwise the baser saturnine nature 
manifests. 


This only makes sense. Since Saturn is the planet of the labor class, when its 
element becomes sublimated, with whom is it going to sympathize? Will it 
sympathize with the aristocratic class, represented by its opposite 
counterpart, the Sun? Of course not; a positive, Saturnian element would 
generate sympathy for its own- the masses. 


How interesting that Brihat Jataka, chapter 17, text 11, ascribes "attached to 
the property of other men" to this location of the Moon. This indication 


certainly smacks of modern socialism. One should be very careful about 
being carried away by the romanticized western ideal of Aquarius. 


Terseness aside, Aquarius is certainly a sign of philosophical thinking- its 
melancholy nature is bound to make it so. It is an airy (intellectual) sign, so 
the Moon here makes one pensive. 


Airy signs are rational in the sense that they are not sentimental or emotional 
like watery signs. It is for this reason that in Notable Horoscopes, in the 
section dealing with the horoscope of Augustus Caesar, Dr. Raman informs 
us that Aquarius is a sign of "calculated thinking." 


Recall that sadness and a melancholy nature are communicated by both 
signs of Saturn, Capricorn and Aquarius. In fact, Brihat Jataka speaks of 
"elevations and depressions," which suggests an up and down nature to the 
Moon-in-Aquarius melancholy. 


Another trait not to be lost sight of is the esoteric and mystical side of 
Aquarius. This trait has been amply discussed in other sections, but it 
suffices to say that the Aquarian Moon gives a rabid attraction for occult 
sciences. 


And the Aquarian Moon makes one eccentric. Perhaps the two go hand in 
hand, because it can certainly be said that the eccentric side of the Aquarian 
mind fuels the interest in mysticism. But this eccentric twist manifests in 
other ways; it gives an attraction to offbeat and unusual things. 


In Pisces: Above all, Pisces is a pious sign. And, of course, when the Moon 
occupies it, one is inclined towards spiritual life and attached to goodness. 
To a great extent, a person with the Moon in Pisces may follow his heart to 
God. 


Just as this sign is symbolized by two fish skittering away from each other, 
when it is occupied by the Moon, a person can be indecisive and go back 


and forth. Pisces is a dual sign, hence the changeable nature. The Moon here 
can make a person a bit nervous and unsure of himself and his direction. 
This is especially so if the Moon lacks brightness. 


The Piscean element is, among other things, romantic, emotional and 
impractical. So when the planet of emotions occupies Pisces, the mind is not 
practical. One has to fight the tendency to be a romantic dreamer. Again, 
this is even more so if the Moon lacks brightness. 


The "Soumya" or gentle nature of the Moon is reinforced in this sweet and 
mellow sign. 


It is interesting that Brihat Jataka states "A person born with the Moon in 
Pisces will be a dealer in the produce of the sea" (Usha & Shasi, chapter 17, 
text 12). The idea is that the Moon is one of the major pillars of the 
horoscope, and its position in a watery sign, in and of itself, will incline one 
to work and earn in relation to water, liquids in general, the oceans, lakes or 
rivers. Whether one is a beverage dealer, a pearl merchant, fisherman, or a 
mariner of some sort would be determined by specifics in the horoscope. 
But one thing is for sure, the Moon in Pisces would give a mind which is 
predisposed towards water and watery environments. Even if there were no 
indications in a chart for working specifically with water, the Moon in 
Pisces would give attachment for water and make one a natural in the water, 
unless the Moon were afflicted. 


Mars- 


In Aries: Mars in Aries stands for challenge. It indicates a temper, a martial 
spirit, and an element of cruelty. Frankness, logic, muscular development, 
activity, energy, and recklessness are called to mind by Mars in Aries. This 
placement suggests knocks, wounds and scars and such to the head. 


In Taurus: The stubborn nature of Mars is reinforced in Taurus because it is 
a fixed sign. The independence of each is mutually reinforced. Mars in the 
sign of the bull suggests a commanding personality, even bossy. And the 


sensuality and artistic nature of Taurus are both energized by the Martian 
fire. In itself, this is an indication for aggressive speech. 


In Gemini: Mars in Gemini gives a rational and logical outlook, the kind that 
lends itself to science, mechanics and engineering. Mars is naturally 
aggressive and Gemini is a masculine sign, so this element of Mars gets 
reinforced, Mars can even be rash. Good at military or aggressive strategies. 
Musical skills are indicated in the classical texts, in keeping with the musical 
nature of Gemini. 


In Cancer: Mars occupies a watery sign in Cancer where his fiery nature is 
not comfortable and where he is deemed to be debilitated. Mars becomes 
agitated here, so to speak, for which reason the fire and energy of Mars 
becomes destructive and angry. Brihat Jataka mentions "wicked" for Mars 
in Cancer. The more negative side of Mars becomes more prominent; in 
other words, the aggression, irritability, and rashness; emotionally explosive. 
A career in the Navy is implied. 


This placement is not good in terms of the maternal relationship. Depending 
on other combinations, there could be separation from the mother or she 
could be quite aggressive towards the native. 


In Leo: Mars in Leo suggests independence because Leo is a sign of 
independence in the first place and Mars is a planet which bows to none. An 
active, logical and even rebellious role in politics is suggested. 


A combative nature and aggressive, imperial outlook is produced by this 
placement. Ability in relation to firearms and ammunition would come 
naturally to a person with Mars in Leo. 


The placement evokes the idea of hunters roaming in forests. 


Classic texts warn that Mars here is negative for children; when afflictions 
are present, there can be few of them and losses during pregnancy. Mars can 


produce stomach troubles here. This is because Mars is a malefic and Leo is 
the fifth sign, the fifth being the place of children and the stomach. But one 
wants to judge these things and find confirmation in relation to the houses 
and the chart in general, not just by sign position. 


In Virgo: The classic texts opine that Mars gives skill in music and art here, 
just as in the other sign of Mercury. S 


Again, just as in the case of Mars in Gemini, placement in this sign gives a 
dimension of rational thought which lends itself to science, mathematics and 
engineering. Mars here suggests a craftsman or architect. 


Saravali deems that "Should Mars occupy Virgo the subject will not be ... 
very valorous and will fear enemies very much" (R. Santhanam, chapter 25, 
text 11 - 12). This makes astrological sense as the brave and fiery Mars finds 
himself in a sign symbolized by a little virgin girl. In other words, one's 
bravery and boldness suffer. If Mars is fortified in Virgo, however, the 
placement will give skillfulness in fighting because Virgo is a sign of 
skillfulness. 


In Hindu Predictive, Dr. B.V. Raman mentions that Mars here makes one 
"pretentious and ceremonial minded" (P - 145). 


In Libra: Mars is back in a masculine sign where his aggressive side is 
heightened. Libra, although a sign of balance, is also a sign where balance is 
easily disturbed. So here the Martian anger is easily provoked and 
disproportionate. 


In Libra, Mars contributes a calculating and businesslike nature; businesslike 
in the sense of being efficient. This is because Libra is an airy, intellectual 
sign (these signs are rational in the first place), and Mars is logical and frank 
by nature, hence the calculating and businesslike nature. 


At the same time, since Libra is a sign of mercantile caste, business skills in 


the typical sense are indicated by Martian occupation of Libra. But they 
wouldn't be along the lines of a soft sell; fast talking and arm twisting might 
be more appropriate for Mars in this masculine, mercantile sign. And 
business mathematics, along with concomitant professions in fields such as 
finance and accounting, are all supported by the logical Mars in this airy 
sign. 


An aggressive malefic in this sign augurs poorly for marital harmony and 
peaceful relationships. Why is this? Well, the seventh place is the place of 
relationships and the opposite sex, and Libra is the seventh sign and 
Venusian. In fact, Saravali (R. Santhanam, chapter 25, text 13 - 14) goes as 
far as to say that when Mars occupies Libra one will "lose his first wife, will 
deal in liquors, and earn through prostitutes." These are simply negative 
indications for Venus, which a malefic such as Mars in a Venusian sign is 
likely to bring about. 


Lastly, it would be easy to imagine all the ways in which Mars could 
energize the artistic element of Libra. The specific way in which the Martian 
energy would be channeled would be indicated by the total influences 
which Mars receives, as well as by the chart as a whole. 


In Scorpio: Resentful, logical, sharp, touchy, aggressive, violent, and tactical 
are the type of qualities which manifest when Mars occupies Scorpio. 
Actually, these are simply the essential qualities of Mars; they become 
prominent and highlighted when Mars occupies his own sign. The sign 
Scorpio adds sensitivity and sensuality, which the occupation of Mars 
heightens. 


If the combination or the chart itself is otherwise afflicted, it is only logical 
that an aggressive planet like Mars in such a vicious sign would suggest 
plunder, thievery, or acts of violence of some sort. 


On the other hand, when not otherwise blemished, Mars in Scorpio can be 
supportive of such positive things as mining, engineering, chemical 
engineering, pharmaceuticals, police work, firefighting, metal works, the 
armed forces, or working in kitchens. 


As far as the military is concerned, Scorpio is a watery sign. So Mars in this 
sign is suggestive of involvement in the Navy or Coast Guard. 


Scorpio is a secretive sign and very fortified when occupied by its lord. So 
this placement activates strong karma in relation to secrets and secret 
activities. 


And, as in the case of Mars in Aries, Mars in Scorpio suggests hits, wounds, 
and scars on the body. 


In Sagittarius: The fiery, Martian energy in such a fiery sign gives an 
aggressive leader. Ambition and executive talents are suggested. The drive 
to achieve is certainly communicated by this combination of sign and planet, 
and know that Sagittarius channels the Martian energy in a positive manner. 


Mars in a fiery sign always suggests fighting and argument, but in 
Sagittarius, a challenging element is added. The idea of going out and 
provoking an argument for a good cause is evoked, which is the opposite of 
the previous sign Scorpio, which is introverted and resistant. 


Both Sagittarius as well as Mars have been described as frank, forthright and 
such, so this is even more so when they combine. 


As both Mars and Sagittarius correspond to the warrior caste, a military 
bearing is indicated. If other combinations are supportive, and/or if the Mars- 
in-Sagittarius combination is centrally located, actual military activity might 
come about. In accordance with the mounted archer symbol of Sagittarius, 
involvement with cavalry, mechanized infantry, missiles, artillery and 
caissons is suggested. 


In Capricorn: Mars is exalted in Capricom even though it belongs to an 
inimical planet, Saturn. Why is this? The basic idea is that the earthy, 


moveable Capricorn provides dry, pliable terrain for the fiery and 
dominating Mars. Compare this situation to Mars in Cancer- Cancer is a 
watery, emotional sign, where the fiery, logical Mars isn't able to carry out 
his agenda very well. 


But in Capricorn the basic Martian qualities shine through well. That is why 
the classical astrological literature is replete with adjectives such as brave, 
independent, bold, and militaristic for Mars in Capricorn. 


The "indefatigable" energy of Mars from Capricorn has been well noted by 
Dr. B.V. Raman in Hindu Predictive. ( P - 145 ) 


In addition, both Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shashi, chapter 18, text 7) as well as 
Saravali (R. Santhanam, chapter 25, texts 19 - 20) correspond wealth and 
high status to Mars in Capricorn. Actually, any exalted planet supports high 
status. 


Success would be along general Martian lines, something which the reader 
has already been exposed to. The fact that Capricorn is a sign of Saturn 
suggests success through labor, machinery and mechanics. 


Positive property karma would also be a natural consequence of the 
exaltation of Mars. 


In Aquarius: Aquarius is a masculine sign with a bit of harshness to its 
credit, or discredit. In fact, it is a cold and calculating sign while Mars is 
blunt, rough and fiery. So the combination of the two is not productive of 
affection or camaraderie. Rather, a very intentional type of meanness is 
produced. 


Not only anger, but anger tinged with frustration is produced by Mars here 
as Aquarius is a sign of sadness par excellence. An aggressive complainer is 
suggested, someone bitter about things. 


Once again, Mars in a Saturnian sign indicates labor, industry, machinery, 
engineering, steel working, and motors. Since Aquarius is an airy sign, one 
with this combination, under positive influences in the chart, might work 
with aeronautical engineering or aircraft machinery in some way. 


In Pisces: The natural energy and boldness of Mars becomes reduced in this 
watery sign, such that indolence and a timid nature result. 


Uncertainty comes about because Pisces is a dual sign. Unless Mars is 
strengthened here, indecision is indicated and the person doesn't know 
which way to go. 


Due to the pious nature of the sign, the tendency would be to expend energy 
along proper channels. Since Pisces is the "basis" of the zodiac's beginning, 
perhaps such effort would be spent propping up good causes. If Mars were 
at all well placed, this would certainly be the tendency. 


But if Mars is not well disposed in this sign, or if the chart is impious, the 
opposite would result. In this sense Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shashi, chapter 
18, text 7) and Saravali (R. Santhanam, chapter 25, texts 23 - 24) warn that 
one is disrespectful to religion and elders when Mars occupies Pisces. 


And if other combinations in the chart are supportive, a naval career may be 
indicated by having a warrior planet in a watery sign. Marine construction, 
engineering or demolition could result, too. 


Mercury- 


In Aries: Just as Mars gives a rational, scientific and technical outlook in the 
signs of Mercury, Mercury in Martian signs gives a similar perspective. 


In Aries, the karaka for intelligence gives an argumentative mode of 


thought. This is no doubt why the Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shasi, chapter 18, 
text 8) states that one with Mercury here will argue against the spirit of the 
scriptures. A person with this placement is described in the classics as mean 
of thought, deceitful, false and unscrupulous. The point is that the thinking 
becomes aggressive and challenging like Mars when the karaka of thought 
occupies this Martian sign. 


The thought process will be, however, logical as far as Mercury in Aries is 
concerned. The idea behind this is that the Martian element will reinforce the 
Mercurial logic. 


Because Mercury is the karaka of speech, one's speech becomes blunt and 
challenging with Mercury in Aries. Both Saravali (R. Santhanam, chapter 
26, text 1) as well as Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shashi, chapter 18, text 8) 
ascribe untruthfulness to Mercury in Aries. 


The classics also ascribe impulsiveness, gambling and thievery to this 
placement, but this has to be judged in the light of other combinations. 


In Taurus: Mercury occupies a friendly sign in Taurus, which is a sensual 
and domestic sign. Therefore, a happy marriage and a satisfactory home life 
are indicated. 


Speech is jocular, but can be frivolous. 


Mercury here gives skillfulness in relation to Venusian karmas such as art, 
music, dance, poetry, cattle husbandry, sex life, et cetera. 


Taurus is a fruitful, benefic sign, so Mercury here exhibits a thought pattern 
which is harmonious and liberal. 


Taurus favorably influences the karaka of speech such that one's speech is 
positive and sweet; once again, this indication will be modified by other 


factors in the chart. The Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shashi, chapter 18, text 8) 
even goes as far as suggesting preaching, in other words, religious speech, 
when Mercury occupies Taurus. 


In Gemini: Mercury gives strong results in his own sign in keeping with his 
natural indications. Karmas in relation to learning, arts, sciences, astrology, 
speech, communication, language and composition will manifest. 


Skills will be quickly acquired by the individual with Mercury in Gemini. 


Good intelligence; logical, expressive and abstractive; is indicated by 
Mercury here. The intellect will be agile and adroit. 


Musical tendencies will be present as Mercury is a skillful planet and 
Gemini a musical sign. Musical abilities would probably be along the lines 
of stringed instruments because Gemini is a sign represented in part by a 
vina, a stringed instrument similar to a harp. 


In Cancer: In Cancer, the logical Mercury occupies an emotional sign where 
he is uncomfortable. The impulsive side of Mercury seems to come to the 
fore here, such that headlong, off-kilter emotions can be expected. 


This ill-timed, impulsive nature of Mercury in Cancer specifically manifests 
as a lack of control in relation to women. One is easily peeved by them and 
disagreements come about in relation to them. 


Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shashi, chapter 18, text 9) mentions gains through 
water-related sources when Mercury occupies Cancer. 


In Leo: The karaka of thinking in the solar sign gives independent thinking 
as well as sympathy with aristocratic and imperial concepts. This is but 
natural; remember that Mercury is indicative of one's way of thinking and 
Leo is a sign of government, kings, the elite and aristocracy. This placement 


has been seen to give engagement along Mercurial lines in a governmental 
environment, such as clerical work in government office buildings. 


The ancient texts attribute a lack of wisdom and stupidity to Mercury here, 
which would not normally be expected because Mercury considers the Sun 
to be his friend. Experience proves this to be true, however; Mercury in Leo 
in the house of speech, for example, has been observed to incline one to say 
frivolous things which are out of place. 


Leo is a sign of generation because it belongs to the Sun. So the planet of 
composition here suggests the ability to generate original writings and 
compositions. 


Brihat Jataka defines a love for travel for those with Mercury in Leo, in the 
same chapter 18. 


In Virgo: Mercury is exalted in Virgo up to 15 degrees, from 15 to 20 
degrees is his moolatrikona and from 20 degrees until the end is considered 
his own sign. This is the best sign for Mercury, and all the finer Mercurial 
indications such as intelligence, learning, communication, language, 
composition skills, skillfulness in general, astrology, abstractive abilities, 
business acumen; along with mathematical, scientific and technical 
understandings; will thrive in this sign. 


Mercury is a naturally helpful planet in the first place; Virgo is an altruistic 
sign. So the public spirit, generosity and helpfulness of Mercury are 
accentuated in Virgo. 


Mercury is a benefic planet whose adi-devata (demigod symbol) is Vishnu 
himself. Therefore, Mercury in Virgo makes one pious. 


In Libra: Saravali (R. Santhanam, chapter 26, text 13 - 14) says that when 
Mercury occupies Libra, the "native will have knowledge of the arts." This 
makes sense because Mercury is the Jhanakaraka; he indicates the nature of 


one's knowledge, and Libra is a Venusian sign. But whether in terms of art 
or otherwise, Libra is a good sign for Mercury to occupy. This placement is 
supportive of learning. Mercury in an airy sign certainly makes one a thinker 
and denotes a broad intellectual capacity. 


Libra is a sign of balance. So Mercury inclines one to believe in balance and 
equanimity when posited in this sign, one's conviction is against disturbing 
the progress of others. At the same time, Libra is a masculine sign so there 
will be an impulse to argue and impose one's convictions on others. Maybe 
this is why Saravali (IBID) says " ... sometimes short-tempered yet 
sometimes notably peaceful." 


This is a combination for business ability as Mercury is the karaka of 
business and Libra a sign of business caste. If there were indications in the 
chart for study, this combination would suggest a business degree. Sales are 
suggested because bazaars and places of commerce are the domain of Libra. 


Again, Saravali says that the person with Mercury here "will honor wise 
men, guests, gods and preceptors." 


Just as in the case of Taurus, Mercury in Libra indicates a happy marriage 
because he is a benefic, Libra belongs to Venus, and is the seventh sign; the 
seventh being the place of marriage. 


In Scorpio: Once again, Mercury tends to manifest his negative side in the 
sign of Mars. Neither Saravali nor Brihat Jataka are positive at all about this 
placement. They scribe envy, untruthfulness, stinginess, illicit sex, cruelty, 
debt and thievery to this placement. This makes sense because Scorpio is a 
cruel, mean, touchy and sensual sign. Mercury, on the other hand, is a very 
volatile planet, easily influenced by its surroundings; and it is indicative of 
our thinking process, how we direct ourselves. 


One becomes reckless with Mercury in Scorpio because the naturally 
impulsive side of Mercury becomes overcharged by the heat and anger of 
this sign. 


Another natural result would be selfish thinking because Scorpio has quite a 
selfish element to it. 


Scorpio does, however, provide inexhaustible energy to drive the Mercurial 
intellect and skillfulness. When channeled properly, this combination can 
see one productively engaged along Martian and /or Mercurial lines, 
involved with the likes of printing, writing, office work, accounting, 
engineering, chemicals, medicines, architecture as well as information 
science. Specifics, as always, would have a lot to do with the chart as a 
whole. 


The idea of untempered, seething rationalism is evoked. 


In Sagittarius: This is a positive sign for Mercury so his basic traits prosper 
here. This placement itself suggests that one would be learned, intelligent, 
and skillful at writing and speech. Since Sagittarius is a religious sign, the 
tendency would be to write and speak on religious topics. 


Mercury is naturally altruistic and helpful. Placed in such a projective and 
outgoing sign, his liberal and generous disposition would find ample 
expression. 


Mercury in Sagittarius indicates executive thinking and an objective, skillful 
administrator. 


In Capricom: Capricorn is a rather negative sign unless modified in some 
way by the planetary configuration. The idea is that the natural Mercurial 
significations, such as intelligence, thinking, and speech, will have a 
mundane, depressive and/or negative twist to them. This makes sense 
because Mercury has karakatva over intelligence and speech. Therefore, 
cunningness and mean thought appear in the classic literature in relation to 
this placement. Truthfulness is not supported, either. 


Schooling may be delayed or limited by the Saturnine element; Mercury is 
the Jhanakaraka. 


This is a rather practical sign, so the Mercurial skillfulness can become 
heightened here if Mercury is well disposed. Intelligence can be quick, 
regardless of its nature, because Mercury is the karaka of intelligence while 
Capricorn is a sign of quick and agile thought par excellence. 


Both Brihat Jataka and Saravali ascribe subservience to Mercury in 
Capricorn. In fact, low clerical status is suggested unless Mercury is 
empowered otherwise. 


In Aquarius: In Aquarius, Mercury's placement is suggestive of frank and 
stubbom thinking to the point of being controversial Aquarius is a masculine 
sign belonging to the stubborn Saturn, and Mercury, of course, is indicative 
of our thinking. 


This is a philosophical sign, so the planet of thinking here can make one a 
deep thinker or philosopher. That doesn't mean that the philosophy so 
produced will be so positive and fruitful; Karl Marx was an Aquarius, and 
his philosophy, though it had a humanitarian orientation, was atheistic and 
severe. 


In the absence of strengthening factors, the image conjured up by having 
Mercury in Aquarius is one of being bogged down by a heavy clerical 
workload and low status in the workplace hierarchy. 


In Pisces: Mercury occupies his debilitation sign here. Low status, 
dependence and such are typically ascribed for Mercury in Pisces. The 
Mercurial skillfulness manifests on a low platform. For example, one might 
learn menial skills or might not advance much in life through his skills or 
Mercurial professions. 


Since Mercury is a pious benefic (recall that his adi-devata is Vishnu) and 
since Pisces is such a pious sign, Mercury in Pisces may actually contribute 
towards one's righteousness and piety; moral conduct is supported. If at all 
afflicted, though, a person won't be firm in matters religious. 


The natural Mercurial significations such as learning, speech, intelligence, 
impulsiveness and communication may manifest in a negative way because 
of Mercury's debilitation. 


Jupiter- 


In Aries: When Jupiter in Aries is prominent, one wants to be taken 
seriously. 


This is a friendly sign, so some status may be expected. 


The typical Jovian indications such as happiness, piety, wealth, professional 
occupations, children karma and wisdom are all benefited when Jupiter 
occupies Aries. 


In Taurus: Because Jupiter is a benefic, his presence benefits Taurus. So the 
typical Taurusian indications, such as marriage, family life, comforts, 
agriculture, and cattle will thrive with Jupiter here. 


Taurus is the second sign of the zodiac; the second place has reference to 
finances and speech. The Dhanakaraka in Taurus, therefore, is an indication 
for wealth, also pious and positive speech. 


This fixed sign of the bull reinforces the authoritative feeling that Jupiter has 
about him. If prominent, this placement could contribute pride and self- 
importance. 


Jupiter in Taurus will see one well-dressed because the sign Taurus relates 
to clothing and Jupiter is such a benefic. 


In Gemini: The Vidyakaraka in a sign connected with human intelligence is 
inclined to impart learning and especially religious knowledge. Brahminical 
karmas involving intelligence and discrimination, such as counseling and 
teaching, are indicated by the planet of vipras in Gemini. 


The greatest benefic in the sign of human unity augurs well for marital 
affairs. 


Jupiter here gives eloquent and learned speech, i.e., makes one a good 
speaker. This is natural since Gemini represents the throat and is a sign 
having to do with communication. 


In Cancer: In his exaltation sign, the benefic and brahminical indications of 
Jupiter fully bloom. Wealth, knowledge, common sense, priestly karmas, 
professional activity, advice-giving karmas, cheerfulness and wholesome 
beauty will all attend one. Success will come through honest means. There 
will be satisfaction in life, and things will seem to fall in place naturally and 
develop. 


Jupiter is, of course, a brahminical planet in an emotional, brahminical sign. 
So the best of the heart-felt brahminical qualities, such as happiness and 
compassion, will be exhibited. In this regard, Shree Krishna's words from 
the eighteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita shine some light on brahminical 
dharma: 
Sama Damas Tapa Saucham 
Kshantir Arjavam Eva Ca 
Jhianam Vijfianam Ashtikyam 
Brahma Karma Sva Bhavajam 


"Peacefulness, self-control, austerity, purity, tolerance, honesty, wisdom, 
knowledge and religiousness; these are the qualities by which the brahmins 
work." 


In addition, a strong Jupiter, such as is found in Cancer, allows a person to 
maintain some dignity about him. Self-sufficiency, perhaps in a silent or 
natural way, is one of Jupiter's boons. This would all be due to pious 
activities in previous lives, the results of which Jupiter gives. 


In Leo: Jupiter’s benefic presence here brings out the dignity, honor and 
nobility of the sign in a positive way. Other solar indications also thrive 
when Jupiter occupies Leo. For example: good status, benefit through 
doctors, and good relations with the government might be expected. 


Brihat Jataka (Usha & Shashi, chapter 18, text 13) states that "A person 
born with Jupiter in the sign Leo will be all that has been said in the case of 
a person bom with Jupiter in Cancer and will, besides, be the commander of 
armies." What this means is that not only do the Jovian karmas prosper, but 
that some additional karmas in relation to the military and governmental 
aspects of Leo are activated. 


The person has a liking for forests, hilly and mountainous regions. 


In Virgo: This is a sign of knowledge, intelligence and learning, so Jupiter, 
as the Vidyakaraka, makes one learned here. This combination supports 
some type of counseling, maybe as a minister, priest, psychologist, or in 
some other professional capacity. Virgo provides fertile ground for Jupiter's 
brahminical nature such that involvement with educational has also been 
defined for this planet in Virgo. 


This is a placement for investment activity and banking karma par 
excellence. We have already commented that both Jupiter and the sign 
Virgo are indicative of banks and financial institutions. 


The natural skillfulness of Virgo will manifest favorably along the lines of 
business and writing. 


The altruism and maternal qualities of Virgo, combined with Jovian 
beneficence, suggest a deep goodness of heart, helpfulness and spirituality. 


In Libra: The Dhanakaraka in a business sign suggests economic success 
through business. Libra is a Venusian sign, so the business may involve 
music, art, dance, fine apparel, cattle or vehicles. 


Such a great benefic in a Venusian sign also indicates that there will be 
comforts, music and objects of art in one's surroundings. If this placement is 
centrally situated in the chart, then Venusian indications will figure 
prominently in one's life. 


Jupiter here indicates a wholesome marriage partner and a fruitful 
relationship. Why? Because he is such a wholesome benefic himself in the 
seventh sign, a placement that relates to marriage and love, belonging to 
Venus, the natural indicator of the same. But Jupiter in Libra would be only 
a part of the marriage puzzle compared to house indications and the situation 
of karaka Venus itself. 


Jupiter’s benefic, positive influence on the sign suggests a fair-minded, even 
keeled, and balanced personality. 


In Scorpio: The basic indications of Jupiter seem to thrive in Scorpio. For 
example, karma in relation to wealth, children and knowledge will prosper 
here. 


A holy planet in the sign of the Bhumikaraka, from which he aspects the 
Cancer-the-fourth sign, suggests that one might be involved in temple 
building or church construction. 


At the same time, Scorpio can influence Jupiter. The knowledge that one 
acquires might be along the lines of science or engineering. And there is a 
tendency for health troubles in relation to organs represented by Jupiter, 1.e., 
the liver, pancreas, and kidneys. 


In Sagittarius: 

Jupiter's natural significations are reinforced in his own sign, hence strong 
karma in relation to wealth, knowledge, religion, and children may be 
expected. Brahminical and professional karmas will be strong. High status 
and influence is indicated. Because Sagittarius itself is benefited by Jupiter's 
presence, executive ability is indicated, and honesty and a positive nature 
enhanced. 


Because Sagittarius is a military sign, high rank in a military organization 
may be awarded by this placement, if other combinations in the chart are 
supportive. 


Lastly, this placement is suggestive of inheritance karma, although there 
would have to be other indications in relation to the eighth house, and 
maybe the ninth and second. 


In Capricom: Here Jupiter occupies his sign of fall, and one where his finer 
indications have a damper on them. The spirituality, accumulation of 
knowledge, and the positive and expansive nature which Jupiter usually 
indicates suffer. A person with this placement, for example, might take to 
kaitava-dharma (cheating religion). 


Learning suffers, for example, there may be breaks in one’s education, or 
one might study some sub-standard subject matter. 


Children karma suffers because of the karaka’s debilitation. 


Nor is Jupiter in Capricorn good for finances; Brihat Jataka (Usha & 
Shasi, chapter 18, verse 13) and Saravali (R. Santhanam, chapter 27, text 
19 - 20) both confirm this. Low status and servitude are also indicated. 


Some kind of immoral behavior is suggested because the planet of goodness 


and morality occupies such a low brow sign in Capricorn. Expect an 
element of untruthfulness or hypocrisy and little inclination towards 
cleanliness. 


In Aquarius: The Deva Guru in such a philosophical sign certainly suggests 
an interest in the same. The humanitarian side of Aquarius comes to the fore, 
as does an interest in mysticism. This placement does not negate learning. 


Saravali (R. Santhanam, chapter 27, texts 21 - 22) mentions that one will 
lose wealth through one's utterances. 


The cheerfulness and expansive nature of Jupiter become covered over in 
this sign, such that a more philosophical and mature outlook is produced. 
Jupiter's goodness and piety also become covered, such that Saravali opines 
that " one will be a tale-bearer, be ill-disposed, interested in evil jobs, 
attached to base men, be malicious, miserly, will suffer from diseases, will 
be devoid of virtues and will violate elder's bed" (R. Santhanam, chapter 27, 
texts 21 - 22). Of course, we don't want to apply all this verbatim, but it is 
obvious that Jupiter's positive nature suffers in Aquarius. 


In Pisces: Here again Jupiter occupies his own sign such that his natural 
significations flourish. There will be good economic development and the 
acquisition of knowledge. Since Pisces is a brahminical sign, the 
brahminical qualities and professional karmas are much developed when 
Jupiter is posited here. Advice-giving activities such as advocacy, banking, 
financial advising, teaching and academic counseling all come naturally for 
the person with Jupiter in Pisces. 


One's spiritual life flourishes with Jupiter in Pisces. It is a pious sign in the 
first place, and Jupiter is the karaka of dharma. Common sense, a soft heart, 
good judgment and priestly karmas flourish when Jupiter occupies Pisces. 


One enjoys listening to historic, folkloric and puranic narrations and stories. 


A way with children and good-natured, successful progeny are also the 
indications when Jupiter sits in this sign. 


Its a good placement for inheritance karma, too, and indicates luck generated 
from good karmas in past lives which manifests in this one. 


Quiet strength from within could be a theme of Jupiter in Pisces. 


Venus- 


In Aries: Because Aries is a fiery sign, the sensual side of Venus becomes 
energized and the sex drive is strong. Certainly an extroverted type of 
sexuality is indicated. 


The Venusian artistic element also becomes energized when the Daitya 
Guru occupies Aries. Dancers, and people who play hard, electric music 
come to mind. 


In Taurus: Venus in his own sign of the bull certainly makes one 
independent, and gives status and rank. The karma in terms of marriage and 
domestic life is strong and pleasing. Sensuality and a comfort-loving 
disposition are, of course, reinforced here because Taurus is Venusian to 
begin with. One's artistic side is developed and there may be good karma in 
store along artistic lines. One is sensuous and voluptuous. 


Venus in Taurus indicates beauty and nice clothing. 


This placement is positive for development through cattle and agriculture in 
keeping with the natural indications of both this sign and planet. 


And, of course, Venus in its own sign suggests good karma in relation to 
vehicles. 


In Gemini: Here again, artistic and musical karma is heightened in this sign 
of skillfulness. Note that Gemini is the only sign of the zodiac that has a 
musical instrument as a part of its symbol. If this combination figures in an 
economic way in the chart, then earnings will be through music, dance, 
writing, poetry and art. 


Since Gemini is a sign represented by human unity, the sensual nature of 
Venus is at home in this sign, too. Venus here supports karma for more than 
one marriage if there are any other indications for it in a chart. 


Both Brihat Jataka as well as Saravali mention wealth and learning for 
Venus in Gemini. 


In this sign of communication, Venus makes one an eloquent speaker. 


In Cancer: In Cancer, a watery, emotional planet occupies a watery, 
emotional sign. So this placement contributes towards an emotional and 
even sentimental personality. 


Venus is a gentle, feminine planet in a timid, sensitive sign here. It goes 
without saying that this is not an aggressive placement. The person is tactful. 


Saravali suggests grief through wine and women; this makes sense because 
Venus is the planet of intoxication par excellence while Cancer is a 
feminine, watery sign. 


In Leo: In a fiery sign again, the passionate and sensual nature of Venus is 
heightened. Since suddenness is an intrinsic quality of Leo, there may be an 
element of suddenness to one's courting or lovemaking. 


In a fiery sign, Venus indicates a passionate sex drive. 


"Wealth through females, a beautiful wife and few sons" is what Brihat 
Jataka has to say about this placement. Maybe this statement could be 
expanded a bit to include "wealth through Venusian indications." 


Pride and even conceit is another quality commonly associated with this 
placement. Probably this would be in relation to one's beauty, sexuality, 
artistic ability or in relation to an atmosphere of social life and entertainment. 


Of course, a fair complexion is indicated by the fair Venus in a sign of light. 


In Virgo: Venus is in fall here, so the basic Venusian indications in relation 
to love life suffer. For example, one’s love life may be licentious and the 
person may dabble in affairs, or a very carnal or base type of sexuality may 
be indulged in, or disease may be contracted through sex. All Venusian 
karmas may be may manifest in a baser way when Venus occupies Virgo. 


Venus here is bad for status and suggests earnings through base, Venusian 
activity such as drugs, sexual literature or alcohol. 


In spite of all this, Saravali still opines that the native will be learned. 


In Libra: Back in its own sign, Venus gives a sensual and artistic nature, and 
an enjoyment mood. This combination sees one acquire Venusian articles 
such as fine apparel, art, and vehicles. Some musical instruments may be 
acquired or artistic skills developed. 


Intelligence and learning are indicated by Venus here as Libra is an 
intellectual sign and Venus a scholarly planet. 


Venus in Libra contributes towards a happy and successful marriage for 
obvious reasons, i.e., the karaka is in his own sign, which is the seventh 


sign, the seventh being the place of marriage. 


The seventh place also has to do with foreign residence and Libra is a 
moveable sign; so Venus here suggests travels to far away places. 


And, of course, Venus in its own sign gives high status, beauty and wealth. 


In Scorpio: The baser Venusian qualities tend to manifest when Venus 
occupies Scorpio. For example, illicit relationships are mentioned in both 
Brihat Jataka as well as in Saravali for Venus in this sign. In general, this 
placement is negative for marriage karma, and relationships are 
characterized by touchiness and strife. Saravali even suggests some kind of 
contemptuous attitude towards chastity. 


Success and strong results are not to be expected. On the other contrary, a 
debt load and an inability to accumulate wealth may be expected. 


Of course, both Venus and Scorpio are watery and therefore emotional; so is 
the native in whose chart they are prominent. However, such emotions will 
be tinged by the sensitivity and anger so typical of Scorpio. So when Venus 
in Scorpio influences the chart strongly, one becomes touchy and 
quarrelsome, but loses ground through arguments and litigations because, 
after all, Venus is not favorable here. 


In Sagittarius: Good rank and status is awarded by Venus in Sagittarius. 


And the more positive qualities of Venus and Sagittarius come to the fore 
when this combination occurs. The personality thus formed will be 
straightforward, virtuous, positive marriage karma manifest. 


Happy domestic life and marriage karma manifest. 


This combination is productive of wealth, which will come about through 
professional activity and Venusian means, including cattle raising and cow 
protection. 


Venus is a great preceptor; he is Shukra of the Daityas, as we have already 
explained in the section dealing with the planets. So in such a spiritual sign 
as Sagittarius, the more spiritual qualities of Venus manifest. Therefore, 
Venus in Sagittarius is a combination for priestly and brahminical karmas. 
Learning and scholarship are mentioned by the ancient texts. 


In Capricorn: Attachment to rough women, older women, domination by 
women and a constrictive marriage are all indications mentioned in Brihat 
Jataka and Saravali for Venus in this sign, and experience confirms the 
same. This makes sense as Venus is representative of one's sexual karma 
and Capricorn is a negative sign associated with limitation, loose morals and 
age. 


In keeping with the nature of both sign and planet, Venus and Capricom 
would not combine to produce refined musical and artistic tastes, but rather 
something a bit more popular or base. This, of course, is without taking 
other influences into consideration. 


The natural goodness and beneficence of Venus becomes degraded in 
Capricorn such that course behavior is indicated. Uncleanliness is suggested, 
and attendance to religious functions and the execution of pious acts all 
suffer. 


This sign is depressive for such a pleasant planet. 


In Aquarius: The same comments made with reference to Venus in 
Capricorn apply here, and for the same basic reason; both Capricorn as well 
as Aquarius belong to Saturn, partake of his qualities, and influence Venus 
in similar ways. 


In addition, the native with Venus in Aquarius might be more of a thinker 
because Aquarius is an intellectual sign. The Venus-in-A quarius person will 
have a stauncher personality because Aquarius is a fixed sign. And Venus 
heightens the humanitarian element of Aquarius. 


The native works long and hard for paucious results. 


In Pisces: Venus enjoys exaltation in Pisces, such that the more positive 
qualities of both manifest. A nurturing, affectionate personality is produced. 
There will be both spiritual and material learning, opulence, vehicles, 
happiness, pious behavior and a positive marriage with an attractive and 
gentle partner. 


The refined Venus in this pious, timid, unassuming sign make one modest, 
refined and tactful. 


The truth is that all the Venusian and Jovian karmas prosper. And since both 
planet and sign are of brahminical caste, brahminical qualities come 
naturally to the person and brahminical and professional activities bear fruit. 
There will be high status and the ability to carry out one's agendas. 


Saturn- 


In Aries: Saturn is in fall in Aries, which has to be negative. Aries is a rather 
violent and aggressive sign in the first place, and Saturn is a rough and 
course planet. This placement contributes towards a mean and 
argumentative personality. 


One really ends up working long and hard for little return. And it becomes 
difficult to exploit the labor of others because labor karma, represented by 
Saturn, becomes unfavorable. Low status, unskilled labor jobs re indicated. 


When the planet of darkness is debilitated, karma for education and learning 


suffers. If this placement is connected to the factors which represent 
intelligence, then we may expect foolishness and stupidity to result. 


Depression and frustration manifest, especially in the planetary periods and 
sub periods of Saturn, because these qualities are part and parcel of Saturn's 
negative side which, of course, is more in evidence when the planet is 
debilitated. 


The duration of one's life suffers with the karaka of longevity 
(Ayushkaraka) in debilitation. 


Both Brihat Jataka and Saravali depict a wanderer and a deceitful 
personality. 


In Taurus: Saturn in Taurus suggests a stubborn and fixed personality. Why 
is this? Well, the stubborn nature of Saturn is well known and Taurus is a 
fixed sign represented by a bull. This combination doesn't make for a person 
who is easily dominated. 


Since Taurus is the second sign and the second place has to do with income, 
this placement should tell us something about one's earnings. Of course, the 
most important factors would be the interaction between the houses and 
planets, i.e., the chart as a whole. But with that in mind, know that both 
Saravali and Brihat Jataka state that there will not be much economic 
development through Saturn in Taurus. This indication can be modified by 
other considerations, however, such as lordship or aspects. Earnings through 
service or employed positions are indicated. 


The second place is also the place of speech. It is only logical then, that 
Saturn in the second sign doesn't indicate truthful speech although it does 
indicate harsh speech. 


One very important thing to keep in mind about this relationship between 
sign and planet is that Taurus is a sensual, feminine sign belonging to 


Venus, and that Saturn is a planet of low morals and time; in other words, 
age, too. So extramarital relationships, relationships with older women, 
widows and women below one's rank in life are all suggested by Saturn 
here. In addition, we know that whenever Saturn is connected with the 
factors which indicate marriage, divorce or separation tend to result. 
Eamings through women and subservience to women are mentioned in 
Saravali. 


In Gemini: Gemini is an airy, intellectual sign belonging to the planet of 
rational intelligence, Mercury. Saturn is a planet of darkness and ignorance 
(tamas); so when he occupies Gemini, the idea is that one's reasoning and 
intelligence become covered over. Notwithstanding other factors, the nature 
of the thinking process would be shrewd, cunning or even criminal due to 
Saturn's presence. 


This placement is not a fertile one and does not favor the birth of children 
because both Saturn as well as his sign lord, Mercury, are considered neutral 
of gender. 


The person with this combination shrewdly suppresses the harshness and 
aggressiveness which is natural of a malefic such as Saturn in a masculine 
sign. But it manifests at some point, making for some kind of dual nature or 
episodic personality. 


Involvement or interest in mechanics is indicated. Know that Saturn is 
indicative of mundane and mechanical technology while Gemini provides 
an technological and engineering environment. 


Sexual habits become base because Saturn occupies a sensual sign of human 
unity as a planet lacking shame or higher understandings. 


The position of some kind of enforcer, such as a guard or police officer, is 
indicated in Brihat Jataka. 


In and of itself, a thin build is indicated if the placement has reference to the 
ascendant. This is because both Gemini and Satum are airy. 


In Cancer: Karma in relation to one's mother suffers when Saturn occupies 
Cancer. Either one's mother is stern or harsh, or one experiences separation 
from one's mother in some way. Or it may just be that the mother is the 
serious and disciplined sort. The idea is that Cancer is the fourth sign of the 
zodiac and the sign of the Moon - both the fourth place as well as the Moon 
standing for the mother - and that Saturn is a planet of harshness, discipline, 
parameters and separation. So Saturn in this sign indicates such results in 
relation to the mother. To what degree and how much would all depend on 
a total judgment of the factors which indicate one’s mother in the horoscope. 


Cancer is an emotional sign, so the nature of one's feelings becomes tinged 
with the Saturnine element when Surya's son occupies it. A streak of 
bluntness, stubbornness, a critical nature and a cold heart may all be 
expected when this placement is prominent. 


When sublimated, a service attitude and feelings of sympathy are produced 
as these are the positive qualities of Saturn. 


In Leo: Here Saturn occupies a fiery, inimical sign, something which brings 
out the worst of both the Saturnine and solar qualities. The nature indicated 
is caustic and mean, and a severe personality is produced. The solar pride 
becomes arrogance and one is cold towards others. True dignity, nobility 
and honor are lacking, although a false presentation of these may be 
flaunted. 


The classics suggest few sons when Saturn occupies Leo. This is because 
Leo is the fifth sign, the fifth place being the place of offspring. Saturn is a 
planet of limitation and constriction, so his occupation of Leo is negative 
with regards to children karma. But again, the total karma indicated in the 
chart would have to be considered, sign placement being just a small part of 
this. 


Subservience and manual labor is suggested by this placement. 


In Virgo: When Saturn occupies Virgo, the maternal and altruistic instincts 
become eclipsed. The native retains the Virgo nature but is, shall we say, a 
bit too negative to fully express it. Bluntness and criticism will be present in 
spite of the benefic Virgo nature. 


As far as the Virgo skillfulness is concerned, a technical, mundane, or 
industrial orientation manifests in keeping with the Saturnian character. A 
technical administrator is suggested who is expert in establishing parameters 
for those undemeath. 


Virgo is a sign of purity and virginity- a pristine nature is indicated by 
Virgo. On the other hand, Saturn is a planet of foulness and brutality. So 
chastity and honesty in relationships is not supported by Saturn in Virgo. In 
fact, Saravali even suggests that Saturn here supports "addiction to 
prostitutes and the spoilage of virgins." Of course, this would only be so if 
other afflictions were present. The course mentality that accompanies the 
modern plunder of nature is certainly suggested by Saturn in Virgo. 


Saturn in Virgo can depict an enforcer, such as a police officer. 


In Libra: As always, when a planet is exalted, good status and the ability to 
push across agendas is indicated. These indications improve in the latter part 
of life, specifically, as one ages. 


The person will benefit from labor, patience, agriculture and industry. An 
employed position with some high status to it, such as a corporate manager, 
would be a typical manifestation of how the subservience of Satur can 
become exalted. 


Strong instincts of fair play and democracy are communicated by this 
position of Saturn; a stance sympathetic to labor, too. 


This placement is positive for longevity. 


In Scorpio: Hard-hearted, course and cold are qualities of Saturn in Scorpio. 
Basically, negative Saturnian results would manifest For example, 
subservience and bad finances would be typical, low status, and any 
experience as a laborer would be negative. 


There is a tendency towards indulgence in alcohol. 


Saturn in Scorpio is negative in relation to reptiles and poisons. 


This placement is not good for longevity, either. 


In Sagittarius: Sagittarius is such a positive sign that all planets have good 
results to give from occupying it. Wealth, good status, dutiful children, 
friendship with higher-ups, along with religious and proper behavior is 
indicated in the classics. Wealth is especially indicated in old age because 
Saturn is the indicator of that period of life and Sagittarius an opulent sign. 


On the other hand, Saturn in a fiery sign may give a bit of a temper. And 
although Sagittarius is a positive sign with a tendency to exteriorize, the 
natural Jovian generosity would be curtailed thanks to the tightwad Satur. 


A pushy element can be expected because Saturn is stubborn and hard while 
Sagittarius is a sign of projection. 


In Capricom: In his own sign, Saturn is able to confer status and success, 
especially as a result of one’s own work or labor. This type of success 
would be different than the type of success which is characterized by luck 
generated in previous births. Brihat Jataka suggests lasting wealth when 
Saturn occupies Capricorn. 


The natural characteristics of Capricom such as perseverance, a tendency to 
engage in mental rationalizations, selfishness in personal dealings, 
melancholy, and coldness would be typical indications of this placement, the 
intensity depending on its location in the chart. 


Both Saravali and Brihat Jataka tell of taking advantage of women by 
living off their property (Capricorn is a feminine and earthy sign) and 
appropriating inheritances. They also tell of dirtiness and an indifference to 
bathing. This last indication is easy to understand because uncleanliness is a 
Saturnine trait par excellence. So this trait is heightened by Saturn in his 
own sign. 


Basically, Saturn in his own sign, be it Capricorn or Aquarius, denotes a 
harsh and blunt character. 


In Aquarius: In his own sign again, Saturn will partake of a number of 
characteristics similar to Capricorn. Once again, perseverance, selfishness, 
melancholy, coldness, an aversion to cleanliness, a tendency to appropriate 
the wealth of women, to engage in affairs, practical, methodical, 
philosophical and reflective are the typical qualities when Saturn occupies 
Aquarius. 


And once again, the status will be high and the native able to push across his 
or her agendas. 


A bad temper is to be expected from this combination as Aquarius is a 
harsh, masculine sign and Saturn is such a harsh planet. 


Aquarius has an eccentric nature, which simply becomes heightened when it 
is occupied by its own lord. Depending on the chart in general, this would 
lead to an interest in mysticism and occult studies, or simply in offbeat, out- 
of-the-norm subjects. 


In either of his two signs, Saturn contributes towards longevity. 


In Pisces: There is a tendency for Saturn to give his results slowly or in the 
latter part of life because slowness is simply one of Saturn's indications, as is 
old age. This tendency is reinforced in Pisces because it is the last sign of the 
zodiac, and therefore, also stands for the last part of one’s life. 


In such a pious sign, Saturn can contribute a disciplined and sober element. 
Saravali even suggests fondness of sacrifice. 


Both Saravali as well as Brihat Jataka tell of wealth and high position, at 
least as time goes by. 


A service disposition is denoted because the feminine, pious element of 
Pisces sublimates Saturn and brings out the best of this celestial shudra 
(servant amongst the gods). 


A tendency towards renunciation is suggested. Why? Well, in the first place, 
the last sign of the zodiac is suggestive of loss and renunciation. Besides 
this, Saturn is the very planet of renunciation and mendicancy, while Pisces 
is a common sign as well as a pious one. When it all comes together, a 
picture is painted of sanyas dharma, or the life of a religious renunciate. 


Rahu and Ketu- 


As far as these planetary outcastes are concerned, they basically reflect the 
results of the planet in whose signs they are posited. At the same time, they 
do have their own results to give. This was already delineated upon in detail 
at the end of the section entitled "The Planets," and will not be unnecessarily 
repeated. 


At the same time, the reader may know that, according to Parashara, Rahu is 
considered exalted in Taurus and in his own sign (so to speak) is Virgo. 


Ketu is considered exalted in Scorpio and in his own sign in Pisces. Other 
authorities consider Rahu in his own sign in Gemini and Ketu in Sagittarius. 


Chapter Eleven: House Position of Planets 

In the chapter entitled "Rules of House Placement and Lordship," the 
general principles governing the placement of planets in houses was 
presented. Now we will take a more specific look at the results to be 
expected from the different planets in the different houses. As before, the 
basic logic of astrology will be obvious. In addition to making occasional 
references to Brihat Jataka and Saravali, as we have just done in the above 
section, we will refer to Chamatkar Chintamani as well, which contains a 
wealth of information, specifically on house position, in keeping with the 
Parashari tradition. Chamatkar Chintamani is well-accepted, standard 
reference book in Northern India, as well as on the Bengal-Orissa side of 
India. 


The Sun- 


In the ascendant: In this most central of all locations, the solar qualities stand 
out. One is proud but dutiful, loyal, with elitist leanings and a streak of 
nobility. An independent nature is conferred and an autocratic bearing. The 
solar element imparts an egotistical outlook, and makes one original, 
independent, and pioneering. . 


Both Brihat Jataka, as well as Saravali, tell that the Sun in the ascendant 
gives rise to laziness, weak eyesight, and loss of hair. 


Since the Sun is the Atmakaraka, this placement supports an interest in self- 
realization. 


As a fiery kshatriya (warrior) planet, the Sun in the first gives a royal 
outlook and an impatient, peevish, irritable temperament. 


Natives with the planet of consciousness in the first have a bright and sunny 
disposition. 


In the second: Ancient texts tell of wealth when the Sun is well placed in the 
second, possibly through one's own effort as the Sun is the planet of the 
"self," possibly through the agency of the government, and through copper 
and gold, the metals of the Sun. If the Sun is afflicted, there will be little 
wealth in the first place and certainly losses. 


The second is the house of speech. When the Sun is here, speech will be 
characterized by an authoritative and autocratic tone. Speech can be strong 
like a lion’s. 


In the third: A fiery, warrior planet such as the Sun in the house of valor 
contributes courage to the chart. This is an obvious indication. Equally 
obvious is that the Sun contributes strength to the arms because the third 
governs that part of the body. 


Ancient texts suggest negative karma in regard to siblings because of the 
Sun in the third. Depending on the nature of the affliction, this could mean 
the loss of a co-bor, a distant relationship, or that one's siblings are inimical. 
It’s a placement for having an imperial attitude towards siblings, friends, 
neighbors and collaterals. 


Status, fame, success and the ability to push across one's agendas are all the 
result of the Sun in this house. 


Strong karma in relation to communication and the ability to compose 
original writings are indicated. 


Chamatkar Chintamani indicates "pilgrimage after foreign travel" in the 
section on the Sun in the third house. 


In the fourth: The Sun in this house gives mental agitation and restlessness. 


In general, the Sun in this quadrant house is going to be negative for the 
indications of this house, unless the Sun is otherwise fortified, in which case 
the evil is minimized? So, in general, we can say that the Sun here is 
negative in relation to transportation, relatives, education, and property. In 
fact, Saravali mentions the loss of paternal property when the Sun occupies 
the fourth. (The Sun stands for the father and the fourth is the house of 
property). If the Sun is fortified, these indications become modified, as 
always. 


There is a tendency to reside in foreign lands when the Sun occupies the 
fourth because the Sun is a planet of separative nature and the fourth is the 
house of one's homeland. The idea is that one is turned out of one's 
homeland, so to speak, such that the person resides in other lands. 
Chamatkar Chintamani confirms this by saying "The native mostly lives in 
foreign lands.” 


In the fifth: The Sun here is definitely negative for children karma. There 
will be few issues, or a distant relationship with offspring, or separation or 
miscarriage; depending on the nature of the affliction. 


Sharp intelligence is indicated when the Sun occupies this house. And as 
long as the Sun is not ill disposed otherwise, it engages one in advice- 
giving, especially in a government environment. 


As a Satvic planet, the Sun in such a pious house indicates strong religious 
instincts and temple worship. If there are afflictions, then this karma 
becomes diminished because, after all, the Sun is a malefic in a trine. 


Wealth is indicated for this satvic planet in a positive trine, a house of assets. 


In the sixth: The basic thrust behind the Sun in the sixth is that one meets 
with obstacles and opponents, but overcomes them. One's status is high and 


reputation is good. This placement is suggestive of disease and health 
problems, though. 


Any positive results will be due to the fact that the Sun is a malefic in an 
upachaya house, where he gives strong results. If, however, the Sun is at all 
afflicted, then it must be remembered that the sixth has an evil side, too, as a 
dushthana house. In this case, more evil results would come to pass in 
relation to sixth-house affairs. 


In the seventh: Rebelliousness is the key word for the Sun in the seventh. 
The person argues with partners and spouse and relationships are not 
smooth. Why? This is because the imperial and domineering nature of the 
Sun doesn't fit in well with the partnership theme of this house. The Sun is a 
regal regent and a "partner" to none. 


Thus, the crimson ball sinking from view indicates tense relationships which 
result in some kind of embarrassment through the opposite sex. One ends up 
on the losing end of relationships. 


In addition, the seventh-house Sun energizes one’s sex drive. Sexual 
instincts and infatuation with the opposite sex become central. 


This placement of the Sun is not at all conducive to relations with the 
government. In fact, some kind of trouble from the government is suggested, 
nothing positive. 


In the eighth: Misery, dangers, obstacles and loss are the lot of the person 
with the Sun in the eighth. 


Such a person has a shrewd element to his or her personality. The Sun here 
operates in an environment of hidden impediments and evil, either by theft 
or low associations. 


The karakatva (natural indications) of the Sun, such as health and vision, 
suffer as the eighth is the most evil of houses. 


The status that the Sun can give when placed in favorable houses is opaqued 
here. And the charismatic, center-of-attention ego that the Sun typically 
imparts is replaced with a more subdued personality. 


An interest in research and mysticism, however, is supported by the Sun in 
the eighth. 


In the ninth: As in the case of the fifth house, the Sun occupies a pious trine 
here. Because the Sun is a satvic planet, any favorable disposition will give 
an interest in religion and brahminical dharma. If the Sun is blemished, then 
bullying in religious circles may result. 


Unless otherwise fortified, the karma generated in relation to the father is 
negative. Either a distant relationship, separation or friction may result. 


This placement is positive in terms of wealth; because the Sun is so satvic 
and the ninth a pious house relating to assets, and also because the ninth is 
such a favorable house and the Sun such an energetic planet. 


In the tenth: Placement on the meridian is one of the best for the Sun, so the 
solar indications prosper. A good reputation and high status are bestowed. 
The Sun here gives success and luck in relation to the workplace and one's 
activities in general. The approval of superiors is obtained, and relations 
with the government are positive. The person bom with this combination 
tends to be influential and bold. Managerial and organizational capacities are 
inherent. 


Health is good unless combinations dictate otherwise. This is because the 
Sun is the karaka for health and well placed. 


In the eleventh: Once again, the Sun occupies one of the best houses for 
him. So the above-mentioned solar indications, i.e., fame, status, success, 
power, health, valor, and the approval of superiors and government are also 
bestowed from this house. 


Above all, the eleventh is a financial house capable of bestowing business 
profits. The Sun here benefits this house and therefore bestows wealth and 
gains, often through the government, if not, then through other solar 
indications. 


In the twelfth: This is the house of loss and decay, so the solar indications 
suffer here, needless to say. There will be poor status, subjugation and a lack 
of success. A person's social standing will be considered fallen. Paternal 
karma, as well as karma in relation to the government, will be negative. 
Losses from taxes, fines and duties are typical. 


Furthermore, this placement is negative for one's eyesight. 


The Moon- 


In the first: The Moon is predominating from the ascendant, so one is 
inclined to be romantic, emotional, nice, gentle (Soumya) and caring, even 
matemal. This is especially so if the sign is feminine. 


The Moon in the ascendant makes one pleasure loving, in keeping with the 
basic nature of the mind. By the same logic, if the Moon is dark, the 
resultant personality will be indecisive, worried, doubting and suspicious. It 
depends on just how new or waning the Moon actually is. 


In the second: If the Moon is showing its bright side, its presence in the 
second will contribute wealth, a beautiful face, sweet and gentle speech, and 
regular meals (with a liking for salty foods). There will be good earning 
power in relation to lunar indications, such as through the public, water, 
cheese, milk, vegetation, psychology, clothing or childcare, just to give a 


few examples. 


If the Moon is dark, of course the opposite will be true. 


Agreeable and even sweet speech is attributed to the Moon in the second. 


In the third: The mind becomes imbued with valor when the Moon sits here, 
but the mind becomes predisposed to aggression. 


The Moon favors the existence of sisters as opposed to brothers, and 
positive fraternal relationships. A dark Moon would give irritating 
relationship with the siblings. 


An expressive mind is indicated by the third-house Moon, and one is 
attracted and has a knack for writing and communication. 


In the fourth: As long as the Moon has some brightness to its credit, then 
happiness, learning, comforts, the acquisition of property and vehicles, and 
maternal instincts are the rewards of the Moon in the fourth house; one's 
mother will be prominent in life and the relationship will be positive. One 
will be well-dressed. 


If the Moon is weak, then these karmas suffer proportionately. Worry and 
unstable emotions will result. Any property acquired will be humble; if the 
affliction is significant, then property may be lost. A weak moon disturbs the 
karma in relation with one's mother and suggests a negative relationship. 


In the fifth: Good intelligence is awarded by the Moon in the fifth- the 
person likes to use his or her mind. However, since the Moon is a feminine 
planet, a timid mode of thought may result. This placement favors karma in 
relation to counseling and psychology. 


A bright Moon has the tendency to give a good number of children, 
especially daughters. If the Moon were dark and afflicted, then the karma in 
relation to children would be negative- a miscarriage or the absence of 
children could even result. 


The Moon here inclines one toward a feminine deity such as Shree Radhika 
or the Virgin Mary. 


This is a good financial placement with gains resulting from business 
activities because the Moon is of Vaishya/mercantile caste, and investments, 
which are an indication of the fifth. 


The sixth: Obstacles, debts, opponents or even enemies, and servitude or 
low status result when the Moon occupies the sixth. Health wise, the Moon 
here indicates sickness. The Moon itself represents the cardiovascular 
system, breasts, the lungs, respiratory disorders and the blood. The sixth is 
the house of the intestines, the kidneys, pancreas and the liver. Any 
affliction would be along such lines. In relation to the kidneys, liver and 
pancreas, Jupiter's position would have to be examined as he is the karaka. 


The native's mother will be negative or inimical towards him; if the Moon is 
afflicted or weak, then separation from or loss of the mother may occur. 


In the seventh: The karaka of the mind in the kamastan indicates a 
passionate mind. If the Moon lacks brightness then there will be an element 
of unsteadiness in relationships. 


The spouse will partake of a lunar nature, in other words, he or she will be 
emotional, caring, and gentle. If the Moon is dark, then the spouse will be 
worried, sensitive and prone to hysteria. Fondness for women in indicated. 


A bright Moon indicates that partnerships will be prosperous while a dark 
moon suggests losses and suspicion in relation to partners. 


In the eighth: Unstable emotions result when the Moon occupies the eighth. 
There will be phobias, worries, sensitivity, and an indecisive mind. 
Depression will afflict the mind if the influence of Saturn or Rahu is felt, 
either by aspect, association or the occupation of a Saturnine sign. Of 
course, if the Moon is bright, all this is minimized. If the Moon is dark, 
expect a very negative manifestation. 


Sickness is another result of the Moon in this worst of houses. Certainly 
complaints along lunar lines, as mentioned in relation to the Moon in the 
sixth, would be the tendency. Other manifestations of disease would be 
pointed out by indicators such as lordship or sign position. A bright moon is 
favorable for longevity and a dark moon unfavorable. 


The same principle applies in relation to wealth and inheritances here- a 
bright Moon is favorable and a dark is negative. 


In the ninth: The Moon in the ninth indicates a pious mind, or at least one 
attracted to goodness. 

It also indicates attachment to the preceptor and one's father. To a large 
degree, a person will be able to trust his or her emotions in relation to God. 


Wealth, luck and happiness certainly result from this placement. Long- 
distance travel and pilgrimage are also suggested by the Moon in the ninth. 


Note that the Moon’s aspect on the third house is favorable for third-house 
affairs as long as the Moon is not dark. 


In the tenth: Successful and ambitious is the person when the Moon glows 
overhead; such a person puts across his or her agenda by dint of mental 
enthusiasm, determination and concentration. 


In addition, status, rank and fame are given by the tenth-house Moon. 


The adjectives "valorous" and "bold" are given in Brihat Jataka and 
Saravali, and this just makes sense; one with the Moon on the meridian will 
be brave due to mental strength and a sound, emotional base. Of course, this 
will not be so if the Moon is weak. 


A favorable Moon in either the tenth or eleventh suggests approval of the 
government. 


In the eleventh: Wealth and business skills are acquired by the person with 
the Moon in the house of gains. It is a good position for influence, status, 
fame and success. 


Due to the Moon's aspect on the fifth house, many children, especially 
female, are indicated, as well as good intelligence. This will not be the case 
if the Moon lacks brightness. 


The mind is strengthened when the Moon occupies the eleventh, i.e., there is 
presence of mind. 


Positive karma in relation to women manifests when the Moon is bright. For 
example, B.V. Raman comments in Hindu Predictive Astrology that one is 
“liked and helped by the fair sex.” The opposite is true when the Moon is 
waning dark. 


In the twelfth: The tendency is to be weak-minded when the Moon occupies 
the twelfth. In other words, a person's determination is easily broken and 
one is influenced by others. Status is low, one suffers subservience and is 
unable to carry out one's agendas when the Moon occupies this house. 


It goes without saying that there will be exaggerated worries and mental 
aggravation. This will increase in proportion to the darkness of the Moon. 


One meditates on pleasures of the bed if there is any sensual influence at all 
on the twelfth-house moon, such as the aspect of Venus, the seventh lord or 
occupation of a Venusian sign. The rationale behind this lies in the fact that 
the twelfth is the house of bed pleasures and that the Moon is the planet of 
the comfort-loving mind. So unless the Moon has some brightness to its 
credit, when it is in the twelfth, the emotions become volatile. Unless there 
are other indications to the contrary, the person with such a Moon can't 
restrain him or herself and ends up following the whimsies of the mind. 


Expenses become prominent and the person losses money. If there are 
ameliorating circumstances, then the expenses will be along approved lines. 
For example, the person may make charitable contributions. 


Mars- 


In the first house: This position of Mars indicates an active, energetic and 
ambitious person. Themes for Mars in the first are that he will be powerful, 
competitive, argumentative, aggressive and resistant. Of course the native 
will be courageous because Mars is the very karaka of courage. 


In keeping with the basic indications of Mars, his position here indicates a 
person that works well with machinery, logic, martial arts, the military, 
police work, cooking or with fire in general. 


The aspect of Mars to the house of marriage suggests friction in the 
marriage, if not breaks in the karma. It also suggests a fiery sex drive. 


Scars on the body would be typical as well as strikes to the head because 
Mars is such a violent planet and the first house represents the head. 


This is not a good placement for longevity as Mars is a natural malefic and 
aspects the house of longevity. It also suggests a violent death, although 
various factors would have to be taken into consideration before such 
conclusions could be made. The aspect of Mars on the eighth would only be 


one factor. 


Since Mars is the karaka of property (Bhoomikaraka), his placement in the 
first is positive for property karma. 


Mars gives a youthful appearance to the native, even in old age the native 
appears younger than his true age. 


In the second: One of the most obvious indications of Mars in the second 
has to do with speech: the native's speech will be aggressive, caustic and 
straightforward to the point of being blunt. The speech will be logical, and 
the voice strong. 


Mars has a negative impact on one's diet, too. One thing he indicates in the 
second is a tendency to eat meat. But irregular meals and a poor diet may 
also result. Since Mars is a fiery planet, and the second the house which 
represents one's tongue and mouth, Mars here suggests a smoker. 


Eamings will be in relation to Martian indications, a few of which we 
mentioned just above in the section dealing with Mars in the first. 
Chamatkar Chintamani suggests that Mars makes one stingy from the 
second by making an analogy with the way a monkey might protect a 
valuable necklace, not even knowing its use. Other than this, Mars has a 
negative impact on income and accumulated earnings from the second; 
unless otherwise sublimated, a person with such a Mars would lose his 
wealth or have a meager income. 


In the third: Here Mars imparts courage par excellence as he is the karaka 
for courage in the house of courage. This indication is well documented. 


The tendency is to have male siblings when Mars is in the third. But even if 
they weren’t male, any sisters would probably have masculine tendencies. If 
Mars is badly placed, then absence or loss of brothers may result. 


From here, Mars energizes a chart; and an active person, a doer, is 
produced. This is so especially in view of the Martian aspect on the tenth. 


The aspect of Mars to the tenth supports one’s status and rank. 


In the fourth: In general, Mars augurs badly for fourth house affairs. There 
will be breaks in education, and educational results in general will be 
mediocre. If Mars is otherwise strengthened, there will be higher learning 
along the lines of engineering or technical studies. 


Martian influence over the Matru-stan suggests an energetic but strict 
mother; a mother with a temper, and this impedes any happiness in relation 
to her. 


An atmosphere of quarrel and argument is created by Mars in the fourth in 
the domestic environment. The idea is that the fourth house stands for hearth 
and home, and that this house indicates relatives as well. From here, Mars 
aspects the house of marriage, which confirms any tendency for quarrels 
within the family. Mars can go a long way towards causing separation and 
divorce from the fourth. 


In fact, this placement is fairly negative in relation to conveyances. Unless 
Mars is strengthened, one may not possess a vehicle, or during Martian 
planetary periods, difficulties, accidents and expenses may arise in relation 
to vehicles. 


The fourth house is indicative of the mind and what a person feels. So 
although Mars here may impart energy and ambition, this placement 
suggests a bad temper and a combative nature. 


The one bright spot in relation to Mars in the fourth is that it can be a 
favorable placement for the acquisition of property. This is so because Mars 
is the karaka of property. Despite the well-known dictum Karako 


bhavanashaya, which warns about the karaka of a house in the house itself, 
if Mars has any strength at all he will favor the acquisition of property from 
here. 


In the fifth: The placement of Mars in the putrasthan is basically negative. It 
suggests miscarriages, abortions or the denial of progeny. Injury to children 
would be another typical result. A rebellious child would be another 
indication. If Mars were well-placed in this house, children born to the 
native would become practical, active people. Predominantly male issues are 
indicated. 


In and of itself, Mars in the fifth does not augur well for wealth and 
finances. However, the placement of Mars here may bring about financial 
development, especially in view of its aspect over the house of gains. In 
such a case, Mars would have to be empowered by, for example, sign 
position or favorable lordship. 


Since the fifth rules over intelligence, its occupation by Mars will give a 
quick and logical element to the thinking process. Aggressive strategies are 
thought up. 


One may prosper in the field of athletics and competitive sports as these are 
indications of the fifth house and Mars is a courageous and fiery planet. 


Health wise, stomach complaints are typical with Mars in the fifth. Ulcers 
are a common complaint. But the placement is positive in relation to 
digestive powers because Mars strengthens the fire of digestion. 


The piety of the fifth suffers as Mars is a malefic and a tama sic (mode of 
ignorance) planet. However, if Mars acquires beneficence through other 
sources, then this need not be so. 


In the sixth: As a malefic in the sixth, Mars can act powerfully in a chart 
because the sixth is an upachaya house, a house where malefics are fruitful. 


When Mars occupies this house without experiencing afflictions otherwise, 
one overcomes opponents and obstacles, and is successful in litigations as 
these are indications of the sixth. Good rank and status accrue to the native 
of the chart. On the other hand, the sixth is a dustman, an evil house. So if 
Mars is weak here, the opposite is true. 


The sixth relates to debts. If Mars is well placed, then the karma becomes 
ameliorated somehow. For example, one might be able to bypass debt, or 
else debt will be acceptable, even favorable or for a good cause. For 
example, since Mars is the karaka of property, Mars in the sixth may see a 
person accept a debt load for the sake of buying a house. This is not 
necessarily a negative thing to do. In fact, financing property is usually a 
favorable development in one's life which enables a person to build up 
equity. In modern times it is typical. If Mars is afflicted in the sixth, then one 
will have negative karma in relation to debt. 


The same consideration applies to other dimensions of the sixth house; the 
sixth is the house of disease. So to the degree that Mars is fortified in the 
sixth, one's constitution will be robust and sound. To the degree that Mars is 
afflicted, there will be afflictions to the organs represented by the sixth 
house, such as the liver, intestines, kidneys and pancreas. Wounds and 
accidents may also result. 


In the seventh: An argumentative, uncooperative spouse is indicated by 
Mars in the seventh. Besides friction, breaks in the karma are indicated if 
Mars is ill disposed. The same ideas apply to partnerships. 


Mars here makes one bold and courageous, but dictatorial, blunt, rash and 
rebellious at the same time. 


Mars in a quadrant favors property karma. 


In the eighth: The eighth house is certainly the worst of houses for Mars. In 
relation to marriage, this placement brings about great strife, arguments 
galore, separation and divorce. If ever there were a placement to indicate 


death of the spouse, this is it; although there would have to be an absence of 
benefic influence and most likely some other reinforcing affliction to 
actually bring about such an extreme result. 


The effect of Mars in the eighth house on longevity is also negative- it 
curtails the duration of life and can certainly contribute towards a difficult or 
violent death. Similarly, Mars has a negative impact on health from the 
eighth. Specifically, fevers, infections and inflammation may result and 
generalize, stemming from and branching out from the area of the large 
colon. 


Speech is harsh thanks to the opposition aspect that Mars throws on the 
house of speech from the eighth. 


One engages in mean, base and cruel acts, and there is a tendency to be 
secretive. There will be trouble in general, enemies, obstacles, low status 
and a penned-in feeling, even confinement. 


Karma in relation to inheritances is blocked and, of course, property karma 
suffers. If Mars is fortified here, then it follows that property may be 
inherited. 


In general, failure, obstacles and trouble correspond to this placement of 
Mars. 


In the ninth: It is illustrative of Mars in the ninth that the only thing Brihat 
Jataka says about the placement is that "If Mars occupies the ninth, the 
person will be a sinner" (Usha & Shasi, chapter 20). In other words, one's 
dharma (piety) suffers because Mars is a malefic in a trine here and malefics 
harm the prospects of trines. The harshness and anger of Mars may be 
apparent in the affliction. 


Conceptually, one's dharma will suffer due to pragmatic and narrow-minded 
logic of the type espoused by modem atheists of a scientific bent of mind. 


By the same token, if Mars is sublimated, there will be religious courage or 
energy spent for religious causes- temple construction would be a good 
example. 


Friction with the father will exist, and the father is aggressive. Other 
combinations, of course, may ameliorate this indication. As far as Mars in 
the ninth is concerned, however, the father is aggressive. 


This is a positive place for Martian property karma as long as Mars is not 
afflicted. This is only natural as the ninth benefits its occupants, Mars stands 
for property and aspects the house of property from here. If favorable, a 
paternal inheritance of property is suggested. 


Luck and wealth are obstructed, and long-distance journeys bring losses and 
bad experiences. 


Mars in the tenth: The tenth is a nice placement for Mars because it is the 
third of the upachaya houses, where malefics sit well. The ability of 
upachaya houses to give results increases progressively. 


Rank, status, esteem and the ability to carry out one's agendas are indicated 
par excellence by Mars in the tenth. Mars makes one courageous, bold, 
strong, independent, an active doer and pioneering when he occupies the 
tenth, but he can also make the person too aggressive from the tenth. 


Success in the work place is indicated, and work will be along Martian lines. 
(See the chapter entitled The Planets). 


Thanks in no small part to the square aspect of Mars on the ascendant, the 
body will be strong and there will be good muscle tone. In such a chart, 
Mars contributes a competitive nature, athletic ability and fighting skills. 


The Martian aspect on the fifth suggests male issues and active children that 


grow up to become practical-minded. 


Brothers benefit by having Mars so well placed. In the tenth, Mars suggests 
good status for them. 


Karma in relation to property prospers when Mars is here because, as the 
karaka, he is well placed. As such, his aspect to the house of property (the 
fourth) reinforces the property karma. 


In the eleventh: Here again, because the eleventh is an upachaya house, it is 
a very favorable placement for Mars. And as the last of the upachayas, it is 
the most fruitful. Furthermore, the eleventh does not have the stigma of 
being a quadrant house like the tenth nor an evil house like the sixth, which 
are both upachayas at the same time. (Remember that quadrants don't 
receive malefics well, what to speak of evil houses) So there is no 
impediment to the result-giving ability of Mars from the eleventh, at least, 
not insofar as the occupation of the house itself is concerned, because the 
eleventh is purely an upachaya. 


The aspect of Mars to the house of enemies suggests that one overcomes his 
enemies by his own prowess. 


Business gains and wealth are one major result when Mars occupies the 
eleventh. This simply makes sense as the eleventh is the house of gains and 
Mars is at his strongest there. From the eleventh, Mars aspects another 
financial house, the second, which is another reason why finances are 
enhanced by Mars in the eleventh; this will especially be so if Mars is well 
off in terms of lordship or sign position. This aspect to the second also 
contributes frank speech. 


The natural significations (karakatva) of Mars prosper here, of course. 
Hence, the native in whose chart Mars occupies the eleventh will be 
endowed with courage, properties, martial skills, et cetera. 


The Martian aspect on the Putrasthan (fifth) favors male children and 
progeny who become doers and achievers. If Mars is ill disposed otherwise, 
there will be a limited number of children and possibly a miscarriage. 


As in the case of Mars in the tenth, from the eleventh Mars gives good 
status, power, influence and the ability to achieve one's goals. 


Older siblings will be male or at least masculine in character. 


In the twelfth: In general, both Martian as well as twelfth house indications 
suffer when Mars occupies the twelfth. Losses and expenses manifest. 
Status is low, humiliation will be experienced, the native will be unable to 
achieve his or her goals, and even danger and confinement may be faced, 
depending on the degree of severity. 


The twelfth is the house of bed pleasures and from here Mars aspects the 
house of marriage and relationships, the seventh. Since Mars is a fiery, 
excitable planet, and not at all in the mode of goodness, adultery comes to 
mind with this placement. Conjugal relationships for such a person will be 
fraught with tension, argument and aggression. 


Also in relation to the twelfth house role as the house of bed pleasures, Mars 
here will cause nightmares and troubled sleep. 


Loss of, or separation from siblings is indicated as Mars is the indicator of 
brothers and the twelfth is the house of loss. 


Mars is negative here for the left eye and feet; there may be some 
deformation, puncture, or wound. 


Mercury- 


In the first house: This is a good placement for the benefic Mercury, not 
only because it is a quadrant house, but also because Mercury acquires 
directional strength here. So the finer Mercurial qualities become available to 
a person; one is intelligent, skillful, and learned with Mercury in the first. All 
branches of knowledge may manifest through Mercury. It just depends on 
how the planet and the actual chart itself are disposed. 


From the first, the karakatva of Mercury, namely communication, speech, 
education, composition, reading, language, publishing, the broadcast media, 
technical work, mathematics, science, computer skills, record keeping, 
bookkeeping, accounting, architecture, engineering and business skills, are 
all favorable for the native of the chart. Any art or science involving 
abstractive or rational intelligence may be counted among the basic 
indications of Mercury. For a wider look at Mercury's nature, see the section 
entitled "The Planets." 


Mercury is well known as a planet of jocular disposition, so his placement in 
the ascendant communicates good humor and a positive outlook to a person. 


Mercury communicates a knack for music, art and literature in the first. 


It is the basic nature of Mercury to be very helpful and charitable. This 
dimension of the planet is observed in the native of the chart with Mercury 
in the first. 


In the second house: A benefic such as Mercury gives a beautiful face in this 
house as per standard astrological reasoning. By the same token, Mercury 
here indicates sweet, witty, humorous, youthful, and even boyish, speech 
(notwithstanding other influences). 


Because it is the house of income, Mercury here augurs well for economic 
development. Earnings will be along the lines of the general, Mercurial 
indications. 


Such a person will eat well. Green-leafy vegetables will be consumed in the 
planetary periods of Mercury in the second. The person eats well. 


Speech is agreeable, clear and truthful, other combinations notwithstanding. 


In the third: This placement gives positive karma in terms of writing and 
communication. General Mercurial qualities, such as curiosity, cheerfulness, 
as well as a zest for learning will be present. 


Friends and siblings will be of the intellectual sort. 


This placement augurs well for courage. 


Shrewdness with money is indicated in Chamatkar Chintamani, and an 
analogy is given about a person that learns business skills as some type of 
apprentice, and then turns around to set up shop next door. 


In the fourth: The Jnanakaraka in the house of education gives a high level 
of education as well as teaching skills. A high degree of intelligence is 
indicated, too. 


Mercury's placement here benefits fourth house indications. For example, it 
suggests the acquisition of property, wealth, good transportation karma, the 
existence of friendly relations and a helpful mother that extends herself. 
Mercury in the fourth provides scope for doing business out of one's home, 
too. 


A generous heart and a helpful, giving nature belongs to the individual with 
Mercury in the fourth because Mercury is that kind of planet and the fourth 
house is indicative of a person's feelings. So a Mercury-in-the fourth person 
can be expected to be religious and moral. 


The basic Mercurial karmas thrive well in this house. 


In the fifth: Mercury and the fifth house are mutually beneficial for each 
other; the basic indications of each thrive. For example, the karaka for 
intelligence in the house of the same suggests that the owner of the chart will 
have a high level of intelligence. This is certainly a good placement for 
learning, as well. Classic texts describe that Mercury here makes one a 
counselor. Advice-giving and counseling are basic indications of this house, 
so an intellectual planet such as Mercury reinforces such indications of this 
house. All of the basic Mercurial indications thrive here. 


Saravali describes abilities in relation to chanting mantras and incantations, 
which is another main indication of this house. As a skillful planet and the 
planet of speech, it is but natural that Mercury gives such abilities from this 
house. 


Mercury imparts athletic skills in the fifth. This is because Mercury imparts a 
playful game-for-anything type spirit, while the fifth is the very house of 
sports and competitive games. In fact, Mercury supports anything that 
smacks of skillful competition or luck, such as exams, dating or sports in the 
fifth. 


Fifth house Mercury is positive for progeny. Saravali states "many sons" in 
relation to Mercury in the fifth. In keeping with the general Mercurial traits, 
they would be expected to be helpful, intelligent and skillful, at least insofar 
as Mercury in the fifth is concerned. 


In the sixth: The existence of many opponents and quarrels are encountered 
when Mercury occupies the sixth. At the same time, Mercury here allows 
one to overcome enemies and obstacles, in large part by means of sharp wit, 
skillfulness and speech, if Mercury is at all well disposed; otherwise not. 


This placement is not positive financially; debts are indicated. However, as 
long as Mercury has some other saving graces, such as positive ownership 
of houses, then the native would not be overcome; merely a typical debt 


load would manifest. 


Also in relation to the sixth house susceptibility to disease is indicated, 
probably through anxiety and nervousness, nervous disorders being the 
domain of Mercury. 


Breaks in education should be expected as the Jfanakaraka occupies an evil 
house (dushthan). 


In the seventh house: In the seventh, Mercury acquires no strength from dig- 
bala (strength from placement in terms of direction, i.g., North, South, et 
cetera). Even so, as a benefic in a quadrant house, Mercury has some good 
results to give. 


Mercury's placement in this house is positive for marriage karma. A 
beautiful, intelligent and educated wife is indicated as well as an early 
marriage. There will be an intellectual, mind-to-mind element to the 
attachment. An impulsive element to the lovemaking is suggested as 
Mercury is an impulsive, nervous planet in the Kama-stan. 


In fact, the basic Mercurial karmas shine well through this house. Thus this 
placement gives positive karma in relation to speech, learning, business and 
skillfulness. 


Financial development through trade and marriage are indicated. 


The Mercurial altruism and helpfulness are apparent from here. 


In the eighth house: As already pointed out in the chapter entitled " Rules of 
House Placement and Lordship," Mercury in the eighth is an exception to 
the general rule; usually, planets in the eighth give evil results, but Mercury 
is known for giving positive results here. In addition to the quotes from 
Brihat Jataka and Saravali in the above-mentioned chapter, we can quote 


Chamatkar Chintamani, in the section dealing with Mercury in the eighth, 
for confirmation: 


"The native with Mercury in the eighth house from the lagna enjoys a long 
life. He is renowned in his own as well as in foreign lands. He is cheerful. 
There is gain through royal favor or business. Enjoys the pleasure and 
confidence of women." 


We can see from the above quote that the karakatvas, the natural indications 
of Mercury, thrive in the eighth- the text mentions gains through business. 
Not only do the karakatvas of Mercury do well, but also the eighth house 
indications prosper as the verse confirms good longevity, a major indication 
of the eighth. Other eighth house indications which prosper from Mercury's 
presence are research and knowledge of mysticism, reincarnation and occult 
sciences. Inheritance karma is also favored by Mercury here. In general, 
good karma in relation to land and wealth are indicated by Mercury here. 


In the ninth house: Once again in a trine, Mercury and this house are 
beneficial for each other. Ninth house indications prosper. For example one 
becomes wealthy and religious. Since Mercury is intimately connected with 
Vishnu worship, his placement in such a pious house will give sympathy 
towards Vaishnavism (Vishnu worship). Classic texts also mention the study 
of scripture, pilgrimage and bathing in holy rivers in regard to Mercury in 
the ninth. Of course, in non-Hindu charts, Mercury in the ninth still indicates 
a religious nature, but it will manifest along the lines of some other religious 
tradition. A happy and giving relationship with one's father is suggested, 
too. 


Mercury's natural indications find expression here; one is learned, intelligent, 
skillful, trained in business, a good speaker, obliging, curious, logical and a 
reader or writer. Wealth will come from Mercurial sources. 


In the tenth house: From the tenth house the helpful and altruistic side of 
Mercury fully manifests. Ancient texts speak of public works being done in 
the mode of charity, such as the planting of trees that give shade, the 
construction of wells and fountains for the public, and charity, et cetera. In 


keeping with the basic Mercurial nature, the disposition imparted by 
Mercury here will be cheerful, even frivolous. 


Once again, the typical Mercurial karmas, as we saw in the first house 
section, will be very apparent in such persons. Good taste along artistic, 
musical and literary lines will be present, as will an intellectual dimension. 


Wealth, property, conveyance and education will come the way of people 
with Mercury in the tenth. They will accomplish their goals. 


In the eleventh house: The Mercurial indications flourish from here. One 
becomes affluent, certainly through sales and other business activity, or also 
in relation to some other Mercurial indication. 


In the twelfth: Mercury in the twelfth house suggests financial and 
commercial decline. That the person will spend is for sure; if Mercury is 
well disposed, such expenses will be positive. For example, the person may 
spend for schooling or charity. 


The tendency is to experience nervous complaints. There will be worry and 
an impulsive spirit. Education suffers and business endeavors go awry. 


Saravali (R. Santhanam, Chapter 30) states "the native will be unable to 
keep up his word, will be humiliated and cruel." 


The native experiences low status, is indolent, and humiliated. 


Education suffers. 


Jupiter- 


In the first house: The Deva Guru in the first house indicates a person that 
has an authoritative air about him or herself. The person basically has a 
brahminical disposition. As Jupiter anchors things down from the ascendant, 
such a person will be moral, tolerant, respectful, sincere, nice and religious. 
Jupiter endows common sense and maturity. Such people are tall and fair 
complected, at least as far as the influence of Jupiter is concerned. 


Jupiter is the Vidyakaraka, he indicates the acquisition of knowledge. So his 
position in the first suggests high degree of education. 


The person will have a knack for giving advice, teaching, counseling, 
instructing, and coaching- in other words, brahimincal and professional 
karmas. Some examples of typical Jovian occupations would be banker, 
lawyer, financial/investment planner, priest, preacher, teacher, psychologist 
and marriage counselor. 


Jupiter is also the karaka for wealth (Dhanakaraka), so of course his position 
in the ascendant suggests that one will be prosperous and have assets. But 
over and above this, Jupiter favorably disposed suggests the quiet 
independence of a "self-made man" (Raman, Hindu Predictive, chapter 26). 
A divine "guiding hand" would be present in life thanks to favorable karmas 
generated in previous lives. In this way, the person can expect a little bit of 
luck or good fortune in life. 


The fact that Jupiter is the karaka of children, aspects the house of progeny, 
aspects the house of marriage and is well placed in the ascendant tells us that 
the person with Jupiter in the first is apt to find happiness from wife and 
children, and that they, in turn, are likely to have good qualities (other 
indications not considered). 


In the second house: The indicator (karaka) of wealth in the house of 
income gives good earning power, assets, etc. Earnings would be along the 
Jovian lines mentioned above, with an accent on investments and 
professional activity. The second is the house of accumulated wealth and 
Jupiter basically has to do with built-up wealth and equity. So his position 
here gives a positive bank balance, savings and assets. 


Jupiter in the second makes one an eloquent speaker and writer. Speech will 
be cheerful, positive, humorous, and more than likely religious. 


Sugar corresponds to Jupiter, so his position in the house which relates to 
the tongue and one's dietary habits suggests a liking for sweets. Experience 
shows that people with Jupiter in the second house are especially fond of 
corn; this makes sense as corn is yellow and yellow is the color of Jupiter. 


Beautiful facial features are given by Jupiter in the second. As Jupiter is the 
greatest of benefices, and the second house represents one’s face, this is only 
natural. 


Jupiter's aspect on the sixth house suggests that one will prevail over 
obstacles and opponents and enjoy good health. His aspect to the tenth from 
here suggests that one's conduct will be correct and, other combinations 
allowing, that he will engage in religious activity. 


Jupiter in the second constitutes a very positive placement insofar as 
education is concemed. 


In the third house: Jupiter's location in the third house seems to be positive in 
relation to third-house affairs but not so in relation to his natural 
significations. For example, standard texts mention that Jupiter in the third 
gives attachment for one's siblings, such that one extends him or herself 
towards them. Speaking of siblings, Jupiter here suggests brothers and that 
they will be wealthy and of good character. 


Other examples of the way in which third-house indications are benefited by 
Jupiter's presence are as follows: The courage and boldness of this house is 
reinforced, a wholesome taste in relation to art is present, as well as literary 
talents along the lines of liberal art, religion and philosophy. The individual 
with such a Jupiter reads literature on spiritual and philosophical themes. 


On the other hand, the natural significations of Jupiter don't fare as well as 
they might from this house. For example, Chamatkar Chintamani 
(translation by S.S. Sareen) says that there will only be "little gains in spite 
of good luck." Brihat Jataka makes a statement about the person being 
“miserly.” If Jupiter were to acquire strength from other sources, for 
example, by good lordship over houses, sign position, aspect, etc., etc., then 
the fruitful nature of this house may come to the fore and mediocre results 
may be improved. 


In the fourth house: The greatest of benefics is back in a quadrant house in 
the fourth; consequently, his natural indications shine and the affairs of this 
house are benefited. For example, as the Vidyakaraka (Jupiter indicates the 
accumulation of knowledge and degrees) in the house of education, Jupiter 
suggests that there will be a high level of educational attainment. As Jupiter 
is a brahmin, his placement here suggests that the skills to teach, guide and 
coach will be much developed in the native. 


The fourth house relates to hearth and home, as well as family relations in 
general. Jupiter here suggests good relations with the maternal side of the 
family, with people in general and with brahmins (in modern days, teachers 
and professionals). 


Contentment is suggested by Jupiter in the fourth because this house is the 
house of the heart and feelings, and Jupiter is, of course, the greatest benefic. 


This is also the house of landed property and real estate. Needless to say, 
Jupiter's presence augurs well for this indication. Since the fourth is the 
house of mother, such assets may come about by means of a maternal 
inheritance or through the agency of the mother. One's mother will be 
positive and wholesome thanks to Jupiter’s presence. 


The fourth house as the Vahanasthan, the place of vehicles, also benefits by 
Brihaspati's occupation, suggesting good karma in relation to transportation 
and the vehicles. 


Last but not least, the Dhanakaraka in a quadrant promises wealth and more 
equity than liabilities. 


In the fifth: A high level of intelligence is indicated as the fifth is the house 
of intelligence proper and is much benefited by Jupiter's presence here. As 
far as the nature of one's intelligence is concerned, Jupiter gives sympathy 
for religious and philosophical thinking when he occupies this house and 
knowledge of scripture and mantras is acquired. 


Of course, progeny is another main indication of the fifth. The tendency is to 
have a good number of children when Jupiter sits here. And since Jupiter is 
a masculine planet, sons are more than likely. Jupiter's goodness indicates 
proper children, children who are lucky, become wealthy and who enjoy 
good status in life. 


Counseling and teaching correspond to this placement because Jupiter's 
natural brahminical qualities are enhanced in a trine. Furthermore, Jupiter 
aspects the house of teachers and preceptors from here, i.e., the ninth. A 
high level of education goes without saying. 


Positive finances are also indicated- specifically, good investment and 
banking karma. The fifth is the house of investments while Jupiter is the 
planet of investments and banking par excellence. 


In the sixth: This is an evil house (dushthan), so Jupiter's natural indications 
suffer here. Finances fare poorly, investments sour and debt is incurred. At 
best, expenses are for a good cause, but wealth will not be generated by 
Jupiter here. This placement also augurs badly for inheritances. 


The karma in terms of progeny is weak, too. This placement, in and of itself, 
suggests that there will be either no children born to the native, or a fetus lost 
during pregnancy, or that there will be few children, or that the birth of 
children will come late in life. 

Sixth house placement of the Putrakaraka suggests that the children will be 


sickly, debt-ridden or fare poorly in life. 


Disease is indicated by Jupiter’s occupation of the house of disease, 
especially in relation to the kidneys, liver and pancreas. Blood sugar 
disorders are suggested. If Jupiter is fortified and sublimated in some way, 
then one will avoid these afflictions. Jupiter in the sixth makes one indolent. 


Sixth-house Jupiter sees the native obscure with little respect. 


The sixth is the house of enemies, but Brihat Jataka writes that one with 
Jupiter in the sixth has no enemies. In Hindu Predictive Astrology, Dr. B.V. 
Raman validates this statement by saying that when Jupiter sits in the sixth, 
the person is “foeless.” 


Breaks in education are to be expected. 


Maternal uncles prosper and are the proper sort as Jupiter occupies the third 
(brothers) from the house of mother. 


In the seventh: In a quadrant again, Jupiter augurs well for status, piety, 
education and wealth. 


Jupiter in the seventh indicates a pious, positive mate, with brahminical 
qualities and a fair complexion. Marriage will be happy and wholesome, 
unless Jupiter occupies Capricom. Jupiter sublimates the sex drive from 
here, and one’s orientation towards sex is wholesome, insofar as Jupiter’s 
influence is concerned. Wealth may be acquired through marriage or the 
wife may be a good earner. 


This placement gives karma for pilgrimages because the seventh house 
indicates foreign lands, i.e., places opposite one's own, and Jupiter is such a 
pious planet. 


Friendships are helpful and siblings positive. Note that Jupiter aspects both 
the third and eleventh from here. Both houses stand for neighbors, friends 
and siblings. Partnerships will be positive and will contribute to growth. 


Children figure prominently in the life of the native. 


The karma is positive for learning and the person will be endowed with 
wisdom. 


In the eighth: A benefic in the eighth augurs well for the basic indications of 
the eighth house. For example, Jupiter has a positive effect on longevity. His 
presence indicates a pious environment surrounding one's death, as well as a 
pious destination. The logic behind this statement has already been given in 
the chapter entitled "Indications of the Houses." There, Shree Krishna's 
words from the eighth chapter, text six, of the Bhagavad Gita were cited in 
this regard. 


Jupiter in the eighth has a positive effect in regards to legacies and 
inheritances, too. The eighth house gives the results of karmas earned in 
previous lives. This is so much so that some say the eighth house 
corresponds to purva punyas, similar to the trines. At any rate, Jupiter is the 
planet which corresponds to pious acts from previous lives. So Jupiter’s 
location in this house is conducive to wealth from an inheritance, if he has 
some strength to his credit. 


On the other hand, the natural indications of Jupiter generally suffer in this 
house. Jupiter in the eighth is negative for finances, unless he is well 
disposed otherwise. In the chapter entitled Rules for House Lordship, 
situations in which Jupiter in the eighth house can be productive of wealth 
have been presented from Bhavarta Ratnakara. But unless Jupiter is 
unusually well disposed in this house, financial karma will be feeble. 


In and of itself, the placement makes one obscure and gives low status. 


One's piety suffers; either one won't be religious at all, or one will adopt 
some substandard religious system or there will be some kind of religious 
hypocrisy. High caliber morality will not correspond to the native. 


Jupiter's results as the Putrakaraka, the indicator of children, also suffer. If 
Jupiter and the fifth house are badly disposed, then some kind of loss or 
miscarriage may result. If there are some saving graces, then maybe the 
affliction will manifest in the form of a distant relationship with offspring, or 
a heavy child-support burden. The basic idea is that Jupiter's position here 
indicates that offspring karma is weak and that it should be avoided if 
possible. 


The status will be low and one will experience subservience. 


There is a negative impact on health, too. One can expect some health 
disorders in relation to the karakatva of Jupiter, in other words, the liver, 
kidneys, pancreas and also blood sugar imbalances. 


In the ninth: In the best of trines, the indications of both Jupiter and this 
house are benefited. Above all, the ninth is the house of religion. The 
Dharmakaraka in this house suggests highly developed sensitivities in the 
spiritual domain. The person participates in religious ceremonies and goes 
on pilgrimage. Brahminical qualities are highly evolved in the native. The 
person will find fortunate karma along the lines of priestly work, advice- 
giving professions, and teaching. 


In general, Jupiter in the ninth indicates luck and fortune, especially during 
his planetary period. The results of punya purvas and karmas, pious acts 
from previous lives, come back to bless one and make life easier, just as one 
reaps what he sows. 


Wealth will be built up, most likely through professional activities such as 
advocacy, banking, financial advising, or counseling. Investments will be a 
source of wealth as Jupiter and this house indicate financial growth and 


luck, respectively. 


The ninth-house placement of Jupiter supports the idea of earning through 
teaching as both Jupiter and the ninth house stand for preceptors and 
brahmins. Teachers are generally paid by the government, and the ninth 
house is the house of governmental expenses, so Jupiter in the ninth lends 
itself to the idea of earning as a public school teacher. 


Needless to say, a high degree of learning is indicated as this is probably the 
most excellent house for the Vidyakaraka. The native not only has 
knowledge at his disposition, but common sense, too. 


Strong karma in relation to progeny is indicated; not only is the Putrakaraka 
strong in this house, but his aspect to the house of children is extremely 
favorable. Children will be many, and they will be pious, good, and lucky in 
life. 


This placement augurs well in relation to brothers, too, because Jupiter's 
aspect on the house of brothers indicates that they will be favorably 
disposed, and pious and lucky as well. As a masculine planet, Jupiter 
suggests brothers. His aspect on the fifth suggests male offspring. 


The native enjoys good status, he is happy and giving. 


In the tenth: The tenth is both a quadrant as well as an upachaya house, both 
of which are positive for Jupiter. So the person with Jupiter in this house has 
a brahminical bearing about him. The person will be sympathetic to religion, 
wise and dignified. 


The person will engage in brahminical activities. This is only natural as the 
tenth is the karmasthan, the house of occupation. By brahminical activities 
we are again referring to teaching, instructing and counseling, especially in 
the field of religion, economics, banking, finance, business in general, law 
and history- Jovian indications. 


The person is an intellectual and strong education karma is indicated. Not 
only because of the favorable position of Jupiter, but also because of 
Jupiter's direct aspect on the house of education. 


Jupiter's direct aspect from here benefits all the fourth-house affairs, in fact. 
Karma in terms of conveyances and properties is reinforced and favorable; 
one's mother is a positive person and the relationship with her will be 
nurturing. 


Wealth and a positive bank balance will be in store for the native thus bor. 
This is not only because Jupiter sits well in a quadrant, but because he 
aspects the house of accrued wealth, the second. 


This aspect on the second helps the native to be truthful as Jupiter is such a 
dignified and pious brahmin, and because the second house pertains to 
speech. Indeed, Jupiter's presence in the house of actions suggests that the 
native will be clean and straightforward in all his activities. 


Good and successful children are generated by the native, and they are a 
centerpiece of the person's life. 


As far as tenth house indications per se are concerned, the native enjoys 
good status and positive karma in relation to the government. 


In general, the happy, positive and growth-oriented outlook of Jupiter 
thrives in this house and channels the person's work in a positive manner. 


In the eleventh: The greatest benefic gives strong results in the best of 
upachayas. Since this house is a house much related to profit and money, the 
Dhanakaraka here promises a high degree of wealth. Marriage and 
friendships will be helpful in this regard. 


Not only may friendships be helpful economically but, in general, 
relationships with friends, neighbors, and older siblings will be uplifting. 


The positive placement of the Vidyakaraka not only promises the acquisition 
of knowledge, but his aspect to the house of intelligence tells us something 
about the native's way of thinking. A good degree of intelligence is 
indicated, and the native's mode of thought will be positive and beneficial. 
The person doesn't think in a destructive way or in a way which will impede 
the progress of others. 


The native enjoys a happy and beneficial relationship with his or her 
children. These will be good natured, religious and well off. Several 
children can be expected. 


Jupiter's aspect to the house of marriage suggests the relation will be a 
helpful one, the spouse a thoughtful person and good. 


In general, the brahminical and religious side of Jupiter, as we have already 
defined, finds full expression in this house. There will be luck and 
exponential gains along such lines. 


In the twelfth: The most obvious result of the Dhanakaraka in the twelfth 
house is financial loss and expenses. Such losses are along the lines of 
Jupiter's karakatva or, of course, his lordship. For example, Jupiter here 
suggests losses and expenses through investments, banking, religious 
charity, tuition and children. Such expenditures will be foolish and twisted if 
Jupiter is afflicted, and one will be bitter about them. If Jupiter is sublimated, 
one's expenses will be for a good cause. 


One religious life does not have to suffer unless there are afflictions, but the 
person will be an obscure personality rather than a religious leader. 


It must be noted that Jupiter influences both houses concerned with the end 


of life and the hereafter from the twelfth, 1.e., the twelfth itself and the 
eighth, which receives Jupiter’s aspect from the twelfth. As such, if Jupiter is 
at all well disposed, a peaceful and pious environment surrounding death is 
indicated, as well as a pious destination. 


Though Jupiter gives the results of pious activities in former lives, which we 
typically term "luck," his affliction here gives bad luck, plain and simple. 
Since Jupiter is weakened here, servitude and low status result. 


In keeping with the idea that Jupiter's karakatva suffers in this dushthan (evil 
house), few children may be expected. Even if children are born to the 
native, the karma will still be weak. For example, children born to the native 
of such a chart may an inordinate financial burden or there may be a distant 
or uncomfortable relationship with them. 


Venus- 


In the first: One prominent result of Venus in the ascendant is a sensual 
disposition. The person is skilled in sex, and his or her love life develops 
early; marriage comes early, too. Remember that these results may be 
modified by other planetary alignments. For example, Saturn's influence 
over Venus or the seventh house could cause delay. At any rate, love and 
marriage are at the center of one's life. 


Another characteristic would be an affectionate and emotional bearing. A 
prominent Venus imparts a gentle nature and a liberal outlook. The native is 
a pleasing person and harmony is the theme when Venus holds sway. 


A rather attractive appearance is indicated by the beautiful. 


From the ascendant, Venusian indications such as art, music, dance, theater, 
poetry, and love are prominent. The person will acquire such things as 
attractive furniture and comforts in general, flowers, paintings, perfumes, 
incense, fine apparel, and silks in his environment. 


The title Vahanakaraka refers to the fact that Venus indicates vehicles. The 
location of Venus in the most central of all quadrants gives favorable karma 
in relation to vehicles and transportation. Cattle are also indicated by Venus, 
so cow protection and dairy farming become another favorable avenue of 
karma. 


Venus is a brahminical planet par excellence. (This is further elucidated in 
the chapter that is entitled The Planets). So Venus in the ascendant indicates 
general karma for learning and teaching, especially where the education of 
materialists is involved. A natural ability in terms of counseling is also 
indicated, along the lines of a marriage counselor or psychologist. An 
attraction for religious rituals and worship is indicated. 


When influenced by Mars, Saturn or the nodes, Venus can be suggestive of 
involvement with intoxication, which is so common in the West. 


Depending on other combinations, Venus can indicate karma in relation to 
water, boating and the sea. 


In general, benefics in the ascendant make life smooth and easier, and help 
the person to achieve his goals. Venus is no exception as he is a tremendous 
benefic. 


In the second: The second house rules the face. So one of the most obvious 
indications of Venus in the second is a beautiful face. Sweet, witty, and 
pleasing speech are other results. The person will have a melodic voice and 
singing abilities, and will be articulate. Regular meals and rich food are 
indicated. The native will have a taste for sour food, for example, sour kraut. 


As a benefic, Venus benefits this house, which is indicative of income. 
Venus gives wealth from this house. In fact, if both of the houses owned by 
Venus also have financial significance, Venus can award fabulous wealth to 
the native. For example, when Virgo rises, Venus becomes the owner of a 


trine and of the second house. If such a Venus also occupies the second, 
then the native may attain great wealth. 


Gains would be along the lines of Venusian karakatva as we have just 
described in the previous section. In addition, gain could come in relation to 
one's spouse or women in general. Not only does one earn through 
Venusian karakatva when Venus occupies this house, but the karakatva of 
Venus thrive here such that one acquires Venusian articles and works along 
Venusian lines. 


In the third: Venus indicates A fondness for art, music and literature in the 
third. The person writes and expresses him or herself in a pleasing manner. 


The person is affectionate to friends, co-borns and neighbors, in keeping 
with Venusian qualities. Siblings tend to be female. 


Since Venus is a female planet, the courage of this house is not so 
reinforced. Rather, one tends to be diplomatic and even timid. 


Venus allows one to build up his wealth from this house if there is any 
indication for him to do so. Saravali describes one with Venus in the third as 
being "rich." 


Classic texts seem to describe third-house Venus as being oversexed in 
some way. 


In the fourth: Venus is strong and favorable in the fourth as we might expect 
from a benefic in a quadrant. Both house and planetary significations are 
benefited. Higher learning is indicated, probably along the lines of liberal 
arts or music. A brahmin is indicated by Venus in the fourth; a thinker, 
pundit and teacher. 


Venus enhances the property karma here, and one's residence will have an 


artistic touch to it. For example, maybe there will be some paintings on the 
wall and sculptures. 


Conveyances and transportation are another fourth-house indication 
benefited by the presence of the Daitya Guru. 


Chamatkar Chintamani says that such a person will be "Devoted to his 
mother since childhood." A nice mother and an affectionate relationship 
with her is indicated by fourth-house Venus. In this house, Venus suggests 
that one's own maternal instincts are highly refined. 


The classic indication of Venus in the fourth house is strong karma in 
relation to cattle and dairy farming. In Vedic times, when the classic 
literature was recorded, the ownership of cattle was more common and this 
type of interpretation to Venus in the fourth was more typical. 


Besides these specific results, Venus in the fourth is typical of benefics in 
quadrants- a positive personality is indicated, the native is beautiful, wealthy, 
has some rank and high status in life, and is able to carry out his or her 
agendas. 


The person has beautiful clothes and jewelry. 


In the fifth: A high degree of intelligence is indicated. Why is this? Because 
Venus is an intellectual, brahminical planet, and one of the main indications 
of the fifth is intelligence. And a good level of education is produced when 
the teacher of the Daityas occupies such a benefic house. 


Another main element of the fifth house is children. Venus itself suggests 
female offspring, and that the offspring will be kind, sophisticated and 
artistically inclined, though an amalgam of all indications must be looked at. 


Counseling is another fifth house indication which becomes prominent due 


to Venusian occupation. Keep in mind that Venus itself is a brahminical 
planet; a planet indicative of ministers, diplomats, advice-givers and such. In 
keeping with this logic, this placement is supportive of occupations such as 
advocacy, astrology, and psychology. 


Of course, benefics in trines are always indicative of wealth. But the fifth 
house has special reference to investments as a source of wealth. 


The typical, Venusian karakatvas are enhanced just by occupation of such a 
benefic house. Poetic, artistic and musical abilities manifest, the person 
enjoys good karma in relation to transportation and vehicles, and favorable 
karma in relation to love life (dating) and marriage. 


In the sixth: Even though the sixth is the house of enemies, Brihat Jataka 
indicates that Venus in the sixth makes one relatively foeless, as in the case 
of Jupiter. 


Expenses or business losses will be experienced under the influence of 
Venus in the sixth. Losses are likely to be in relation to Venusian karakatva, 
such as women, vehicles, art or livestock. The lordship of Venus will be 
very helpful in determining the exact nature of expenses or debts incurred. 
This doesn't have to be as evil as it might sound; in modem times, for 
example, it is common to borrow from a bank to purchase a car. If Venus is 
well disposed otherwise, then such might be the case. 


Other Venusian significations suffer in the sixth as well. Arguments with, 
separation from or illness of the spouse would all be typical results. Equally 
typical would be to expect obstacles and interruptions in relation to karma 
involving vehicles, learning, artistic endeavors, writing, acting, luxuries and 
comforts. Venus here doesn't support success through brahminical or 
professional karmas. 


In the seventh: Venus in the Kamastan suggests very strong sex drive. The 
native will derive happiness through marriage and love. An early marriage 
and a harmonious relationship can be expected. Seventh-house Venus 


imparts beauty to the wife (as well as to the native). The partner will be an 
artistic, liberal person. In general, the native will have gainful, positive 
karma in relation to women. 


In keeping with Venusian characteristics, a charming and gentle personality 
is communicated. Venusian karmas manifest prominently from this house; 
one may work along artistic lines or along the lines of liberal arts, maybe 
teaching or advising as a professional. Good karma in relation to learning is 
indicated. 


Seventh-house karma can involve one in foreign travel or residence, 
especially if the ascendant or fourth house factors are involved. Other 
configurations would have to be supportive, too. 


In the eighth: The eighth is primarily the house of longevity and 
inheritances. As a benefic, the presence of Venus here benefits this house 
greatly. Not only a long life is generally indicated, but a peaceful end under 
favorable circumstances is indicated, too. 


Benefit through legacies and inheritances are also indicated because Venus 
here is a benefic in the house of inheritances. 


At the same time, if Venus is so disposed through lordship, sign position, 
aspect, et cetera, then its aspect on the second house, the house of wealth, 
could give financial development. Otherwise, classic texts usually ascribe 
debts, struggles, and ups and downs in relation to finances when Venus sits 
in the eighth. It is interesting to note that taking responsibility for the 
expenses of one's father is one indication for this placement as the eighth is 
simultaneously the twelfth house, which represents expenses, from the 
house of father. In ancient times, one’s debts were passed from father to son. 


Though the eighth house affairs basically benefit from Venusian presence, 
the natural significations of Venus do not benefit by occupation of the evil 
eighth. For example, karma in relation to marriage and love life suffer. The 
karma will be delayed, or there will be breaks in the karma, such as divorce. 


The native of the horoscope will wind up on the losing end of marital strife 
and litigations. 


Other Venusian karmas suffer as well; there will be losses and 
disappointments in relation to music, art, and vehicles. Given such a Venus, 
the native would do well to pick out other karmas in the horoscope to 
develop. 


And of course, the Venusian refinement and gentleness suffer in such an 
evil house, such that this placement contributes towards an ungracious 
streak. 


In the ninth: As a benefic preceptor in the house of dharma, Venus imparts 
sincere religious instincts. Saravali speaks of honoring gods, guests, 
preceptors and elders. The person will attend religious ceremonies. The 
karmas of a religious brahmin are supported by Venus here. 


Venus generates a high level of wealth in the ninth. Sources of wealth 
would be along the lines of Venusian karakatva (and one would have luck 
endeavoring along such lines). For example, the spouse might be 
instrumental or one might earn in relation to vehicles, such as in the case of a 
transportation company. Or cattle might be the source of wealth. Since the 
ninth is involved, some kind of patrimony might help the native or the father 
may help the native to earn. 


As the ninth is the house of purva punyas and karmas, and Venus is such a 
benefic, one may expect the kind of autonomy that only the results of good 
acts in previous lives can provide. Therefore, the person with this placement 
would do well to endeavor along Venusian lines and expect good luck. 


Since the ninth indicates long-distance travel and is a religious house, travel 
and pilgrimage are suggested by such benefic occupation. Another benefit to 
be derived from the benefic influence of Venus over this house would be a 
high position in life to the father, as well as a long life for him. The benefits 
of governmental expenses and favor are also within the scope of Venus in 


the ninth. 


The natural significations of Venus, of course, thrive in this best of trines. A 
beautiful wife and the pleasures of love will come one's way with little 
effort. She will be religious. There will be good karmas in terms of learning, 
conveyances, cattle husbandry, art, music, and comforts. 


In the tenth: Good status, popularity, rank and the ability to push across 
one's agendas are the results of Venus in the tenth. 


The person is active in the work place in a Venusian way. The typical 
Venusian karmas, i.e., karmas relating to entertainment, music, art, and sex 
come to the fore. The tenth is the house of vasanam or clothing, so Venus 
here might see the person working with fine apparel and silks; certainly well 
dressed. 


A brahminical planet par excellence in the house of occupation gives scope 
for professional activities which involve counseling and a display of 
learning. 


A beautiful, gentle and sophisticated spouse are promised by tenth-house 
Venus. Working with the spouse in the work place is suggested for obvious 
reasons. One's love life prospers. 


It is interesting to note that fourth house indications are benefited by the 
aspect of Venus, especially those that are common to Venus, such as vehicle 
karma, karma in relation to comforts, teaching and education in general. 


Not only do exterior Venusian karmas manifest in the life of the native, but 
also the nature and mode of work of such a person are also decidedly 
Venusian. He or she will be a nice person; gentle, diplomatic, affectionate, 
liberal and pleasure loving. 


In the eleventh: The eleventh house is best known as the house of gains; it is 
a financial house. Venus here certainly sees one well off and even rich. 
Gains will come in relation to the karakatva of Venus, including the spouse. 
We have already defined other Venusian indications earlier in this section. 
Furthermore, friends and siblings, especially sisters, can be instrumental 
insofar as finances. 


In general, friends, neighbors and siblings will be favorable thanks to 
eleventh-house Venus. They will be prominent in one's life during the 
planetary periods and sub periods of Venus, or in general if the ascendant 
lord or Moon are involved. 


The natural significations of Venus prosper from this house. Strong marriage 
karma, a beautiful spouse and happiness from love life are indicated. The 
karma is strong in terms of the usual Venusian indications such as luxuries, 
comforts, conveyances, cattle, clothing, music, art, perfumes, cosmetics, etc. 
Strong karma in terms of education and brahminical activities is also 
indicated. 


The aspect on the house of children is likely to produce female progeny. 
The children will be endowed with good qualities, i.e., they will be 
charming, nice, and pleasant, as well as possessed of a sensual and artistic 
nature. 


Eleventh-house placement fortifies all planets, and Venus is no exception. 
This placement will confer upon the native influence, fame, success and 


popularity. 


In the twelfth: The twelfth house is a dushtana, an evil house where the 
significations of a planet suffer. But Venus is an exception to this rule in a 
few ways. Mention was already made of this phenomenon in the chapter 
entitled Rules of House Placement and Lordship. The logic basically 
stipulates that since Venus is a planet of luxury and love, and the twelfth is 
the house of bed and evening pleasures, Venus is quite comfortable in this 
house and gives sexual enjoyment as well as good sleep. Twelfth-house 
Venus is very sensual. There is a tendency is to spend money on sex. 


Twelfth-house Venus suggests a morally debauched person addicted to all 
kinds of vice. The person spends on intoxications. 


Venus in the twelfth is not, however, favorable in terms of finances. Losses 
and poverty are indicated. The person spends too much. Because Venus is a 
benefic, the person may even spend on good and charitable causes, but 
expenses will exceed income. That is the point. 


Under the influence of this Venus, for example, during a Venusian planetary 
period, the native of the chart may find himself a bit off to the side and 
isolated. The person may feel him or herself without much influence and of 
low status. 


A favorable afterlife is certainly suggested by Venus here; Venus is a 
celestial planet and the twelfth house represents one's next destination. 


Saturn- 


In the first: The native with Saturn in the ascendant is going to partake of the 
basic nature of Saturn, and we don’t want to gloss over the fact that Saturn 
is a malefic planet. Remember that B.V. Raman characterizes Saturn as 
being "mean, cruel, undignified and sinful" in his book 300 Important 
Combinations. Unless Saturn is sublimated in some way, the harsher 
qualities of Saturn will manifest. The native will have an element of 
abruptness, coldness, arrogance, sarcasm, obstinacy, jealousy, laziness, a 
critical side, a taciturn element, will have a temper and will be tyrannical. 


If Saturn experiences benefic influence -and this is an important 
consideration- then the baser qualities will be ameliorated and dovetailed in 
a positive way. For example, the Saturnine abruptness might manifest as 
simplicity and straightforward dealings, or Saturn’s quality of strictness 
might allow one to establish needed parameters and be disciplined. 


Saturn imparts a serious outlook. The person is philosophical and mature. If 
Saturn lacks benefic influence, then melancholy and depression may set in. 


In the ascendant, Saturn bodes well for longevity if he is at all well disposed. 
If not, then the person may be long-lived but disabled. If Saturn is afflicted, 
then the longevity will be affected. Saturnian influence on the ascendant 
contributes lanky height and indicates a rather hairy body. 


In the second: In the house of income, Saturn's presence tends to limit 
results. There is little income in proportion to one's labor. To the degree that 
Saturn is fortified, however, one may earn through labor. If Saturn is strong, 
then one may have the opportunity to earn by exploiting the labor of others 
or by managing workers on behalf of a company, such as a high-placed 
executive. If Saturn is not so strong, but has some strength, then the person 
may earn well at least through his own labor. 


As the second relates to speech, Saturn here gives one blunt speech, usually 
harsh and even sarcastic in nature. Saturn in the second makes one stammer, 
too. 


The second house also indicates one’s eating habits. The person with Saturn 
here smokes or takes intoxicants and is indiscriminate in his eating. The 
person will eat old food and junk food. The teeth are large. 


Saturn doesn't usually contribute to a beautiful face in the second, either- the 
person's face will be bony, and the nose may be long, at least as far as 
Saturn’s influence is concerned. The brows will be pronounced and even 
bushy. Of course, if Saturn is well disposed, then these characteristics will 
manifest in an attractive way, something not uncommon. 


It is noteworthy that fourth house karmas are suppressed by Saturn's third- 
house aspect from the second. As a result, education will be delayed or cut 
off at some point. The person will be separated from his homeland or live in 
an old house. One's mother may be of the strict sort, and the native may 


experience separation from her. 


The aspect to the eleventh house suggests the lack of older siblings, 
separation from them, or that they are colored with Saturnian qualities in 
some way. 


Saturn's aspect on the eighth is good for longevity. 


In the third: Upachaya houses (3, 6, 10, and 11) are fruitful for malefics such 
as Satum. In the classic literature, the reader will run across quite a few 
positive comments for Saturn in these houses. Saturn in the third, for 
example, suggests a bold and brave individual. The person will be 
successful insofar as Saturn is concerned, with a good bit of rank in life and 
the ability to push across his agendas. The person will have responsibilities. 


The person will advance in life through labor, either his own, or the through 
labor of others. Agriculture is another Saturnian avenue, as is work with 
machinery and construction. But all of these types of activities basically 
come under the heading of working with labor. 


Involvement in writing and publication would be natural because these are 
third house indications. Any writings might be along the lines of philosophy 
or socialism. If the person has blue-collar karma, work in a print shop or 
with printing machinery would correspond to this particular placement. 


Strong arms are another positive indication of Saturn in the third. 


In spite of the fact that the third house is a favorable place for Saturn, a cruel 
streak is indicated. Remember that krura is a natural indication of this house 
and Saturn is a harsh planet by nature. 


Because Saturn is the Ayushkaraka, his favorable placement in the third 
contributes longevity. 


Saturn limits the number of younger siblings. If afflicted, there will be no 
siblings at all or some kind of separation or loss will occur. There will be an 
element of coarseness between the native and the younger siblings. 


His occupation of the third limits the number of friends and neighbors. A 
cool and distant relationship with them is indicated. 


Saturn's aspect on the house of progeny limits their number and causes 
delay; the person has children late in life. A distant relationship may evolve. 


In the same way, Saturn aspects the house of father from the third and 
suggests a distant relation with him, or separation if the affliction is serious. 


So it can be seen that, even though the third house is a good place for Saturn 
where good results are generated, some untoward results can also be 
experienced. This is simply due to the fact that Saturn is a malefic wherever 
he goes in the chart, and that some untoward results will be generated due to 
his intrinsic nature, whether the house be favorable or not. 


In the fourth: In this house Saturn causes lamentation, melancholy and 
sadness. A serious outlook is imparted, even a stern one. This is simply due 
to the nature of Saturn, and the fact that the fourth house rules one's heart 
and feelings. 


Saturn has a negative and constrictive impact on fourth house affairs. For 
example, one loses one's mother early in life or experiences separation from 
her when Saturn occupies the Matrustan, the house of mother. The person 
may be raised by a stepmother. One thing is for sure, the mother will be on 
the strict and serious side. 


The situation of Saturn here definitely has a negative impact on property. 
There will be no property for the native, or it will be encumbered somehow, 


or the property acquired by the native will be old, paucious, or come late in 
life. 


Education will be limited or one's studies may be interrupted or stopped. If 
higher education does come, it might be held off until late in life. 


The native will lack a positive relationship with relatives. They will be cool 
and standoffish. 


Transportation karma suffers because of Saturn's presence. Either one will 
not be disposed of transportation, or one will not acquire a good means of 
transportation until late in life, or one's means of transportation will be old 
and second hand, such as a used car or a wagon pulled by an old nag. 


Saturn limits the native's accumulation of property and assets in the fourth. 
Chamatkar Chintamani states that the native of the chart "will not be blessed 
with inheritances." This is true at least as far as maternal inheritances are 
concerned. Property may be encumbered by Saturn’s influence. 


Saturn exercises a separative effect over the fourth in its role as the house of 
one's homeland. This brings about foreign travel as the person becomes 
separated, so to speak, from his or her own country. 


Chronic laziness is another indication of Saturn in the fourth. 


In the fifth: This is the house of progeny, and the first thing that one 
wonders about when Saturn occupies this house is his impact on progeny. 
Basically, when Saturn sits in the fifth, children come late in life or the 
person has no children at all. Or adoption occurs, or one helps to raise 
children from the spouse's previous marriage. 


The thinking process is pragmatic or blunt. Saturn doesn't impart diplomacy 
from here. 


The implication for gambling, competitive sports or placement exams is 
unlucky. The fifth represents all of these things. 


Disappointment in dating is indicated by fifth-house Saturn. If a sub period 
of Saturn occurs during one's teen years, social life will be very limited. Or 
dating will occur with a person from a lower station in life. 


This is the house of stomach; Saturn is known for causing ulcers here. Bad 
digestion is another typical Saturn-in-the-fifth indication. 


Investment karma will be sour thanks to fifth-house Satur. The native 
suffers paucity and lack in financial matters. There is much work per little 
gain. If Saturn is rather strong, then the person will have high status in lines 
of business such as insurance, railway companies, construction companies 
and extractive industries. 


The karma in relation to friends and neighbors will be limited because of 
Saturn's aspect to the eleventh. One will have few friends, and distance and 
coldness between the native and collaterals is more than likely. 


By the same aspect, the number of older siblings is also limited. Again, 
some distance or coldness between the native and his older siblings will be 
present. If the affliction is severe, then the existence of older siblings may be 
denied. 


The impact of Saturn's aspect on the house of marriage is noteworthy. 
Saturn in this situation will delay marriage, other indications 
notwithstanding. A certain coolness will exist in the marriage bond. The 
native will marry a divorcee or an older woman, or perhaps both. 


Saturn aspects the house of speech from the fifth, so the person may 
typically speak bluntly given this influence. 


Low status is the lot of the person with Saturn in the fifth, at least during the 
planetary periods and sub periods of Saturn. Happiness will have to wait for 
these to finish. 


In the sixth: The sixth house can be a positive place for Saturn insofar as it is 
an upachaya house, where malefics thrive. At the same time, Saturn here is 
capable of being quite unfavorable as the sixth is also a dushthan, an evil 
house. It basically depends on the disposition that Saturn acquires from other 
factors such as lordship and sign position. 


If Saturn is favorably disposed, Saturn helps one overcome obstacles and 
opponents from the sixth. The idea is that Saturn in the sixth will still present 
obstacles and opponents, but a favorable Saturn definitely helps one to 
overcome them. If Saturn were blemished, then one might still be able to 
resist the machinations of enemies, but maybe not as well. Of course, if 
Saturn were afflicted, then one would be out-and-out bested by his enemies. 


So to sum up a positive Saturn in the sixth, the person overcomes obstacles 
and enemies, is successful, carries out his agendas, and is courageous. Any 
debt load would be easily handled and of positive consequence, such as 
taking out a loan to buy a house. 


If Saturn were blemished or afflicted in the sixth there would be negative 
karma, the severity of which depends on the degree of affliction. To give an 
idea, afflicted sixth-house Saturn would give health troubles, especially in 
relation to the pancreas, kidneys and liver. A spastic colon may result, too. 
The rationale behind this is simply that Saturn, as a planet of obstruction and 
blockage, in the very house of blockage, aspects the eighth house, which is 
the house of the colon. 


Debt would overcome one and one's assets may become encumbered. 


The person would experience hindrances and delays in his or her activities. 


The native would feel cornered and constricted, without potency and would 
end up in servile positions. There would be trouble from litigations. 


Trouble would be forthcoming from maternal uncles; they would behave in 
a stubborn manner and oppose one. 


In fact, Saturn in the sixth makes the native of the horoscope rather 
stubborn. 


In the seventh: Saturn has quite a negative impact on the marriage karma 
from the seventh. There will be delays in marriage, then frustration once it 
finally arrives. Typically, marriage takes place with an older partner or a 
divorcee or widower. The native of the chart feels penned in and suffocated 
by the partner, and the partner will have a harsh, sarcastic, critical and 
pragmatic element. There is a tendency to associate with base members of 
the opposite sex. If afflicted, Saturn limits or breaks the marriage karma and 
causes divorce or separation somehow. If Saturn is favorable, however, 
there will be stability to the relationship., although dissatisfaction may 
persist. 


Poverty, obstructions, low status, delays and, indeed, general frustration are 
all experienced by the owner of the chart during the planetary periods and 
sub periods of Saturn in the seventh. Coldness, arrogance and a mean streak 
will be noted, too. 


Depressions and brooding are indicated for the native as the melancholic 
Saturn aspects the ascendant and the fourth house, the house of feelings, 
from here. 


Furthermore, Saturn's aspect to the fourth has a negative impact on the 
karmas of that house. For example, there may be separation from the 
mother, or she may be a stepmother, or she may be hard on the native of the 
chart. Breaks in education and negative vehicle karma will also be 
experienced. Insofar as property karma is concerned, either ownership will 
come late, or one will own an insignificant amount of property, or it will be 


encumbered, or else one will lose his or her real estate all together. 


Foreign travel is suggested by this Saturn as his aspect to the fourth 
separates one, as it were, from his or her homeland. The seventh is the 
opposite house from the ascendant so, in and of itself, it suggests foreign 
residence; the opposite of one's own is foreign. 


Lastly, both Saravali as well as Chamatkar Chintamani mention sickness for 
the native as well as for the spouse. 


In the eighth: The eighth house occupation of Saturn augurs well for 
longevity. If afflicted, however, two factors then suffer; both the house of 
longevity as well as Ayushkaraka Saturn. In this case, longevity would be 
doubly curtailed. Death by means of a long, drawn out illness is suggested 
by a negative Saturn here. 


Colic and a spastic colon are caused by Saturn in this house, the very house 
of the large intestine. Remember that Saturn is a slow planet, one of 
blockage, and of disease, specifically infection. When Saturn occupies the 
eighth, toxins may fester in the colon, seep through the cell walls, invade the 
bloodstream and tax one's bodily defenses. Boils are a typical result, 
especially on one's face, the house indicating one's face (the second) being 
opposite the eighth. By the same token, weak eyesight is also a typical 
indication when Saturn occupies the eighth. Saturn's aspect to the fifth will 
contribute towards ulcers. 


The progeny karma is also impacted by Saturn's aspect to the fifth. There 
will be few children, and separation from them, such as a distant 
relationship, is the tendency. The children will have a serious and mature 
dimension to them. 


Saturn in the house of the marital bond has much the same effect as Saturn 
in the house of the marriage partner, the seventh. There will be delay and 
frustration in regards to marriage, and coolness in the relationship. Again, 
the partner may be older than one, or a divorcee. And just as in the case of 


Saturn in the seventh, when afflicted in this house, Saturn curtails marriage 
and brings about divorce or widowhood. 


Harsh speech is indicated, once again by Saturn's influence by aspect to the 
second house, the house of speech. This same aspect contributes an 
indiscriminate element to one's eating habits. 


In general, this placement is not good: frustration, low status, obstructions, 
secret impediments, constrictions and imprisonment are the tendency. 


In the ninth: Saturn in the house of dharma is not naturally supportive of the 
indications of this house. Religious bigotry and a tendency towards kaitava 
dharmas (cheating religions) will be present. If Saturn is well disposed, 
however, the person will take an interest in philosophy or astrology. Since 
Saturn is the planet of age, the person will take to religion later in life. Saturn 
here can see one take vows of religious renunciation. 


It's noteworthy that, from here, Saturn aspects both houses which represent 
siblings: the third and the eleventh. This suggests the absence of brothers, a 
limit on their number, a distant relationship with them, or that there will be a 
stern or coarse element in the relationship. It depends on how Saturn is 
disposed, as well as on the other indications relating to brother, of course. 


Saturn will influence the karma in relation to one's father along these same 
lines because the ninth is, after all, the house of father. A hard, cold planet 
such as Saturn in the Pitrusthan basically dictates that the relationship with 
the father will not be sweet, soft or jolly. If Saturn is well disposed, the 
father will be a serious, disciplined man. 


Unless Saturn is sublimated or enhanced somehow, lucky karmas from the 
past are blocked. Specifically, wealth is not to be expected. 


Again, if Saturn is at all favorably disposed, then success in litigations and 
success over obstacles and opponents may be expected. 


In the tenth: In the house of actions, Saturn indicates high status and power. 
The native builds himself up over time. At some point, however, there will 
be a sudden fall from power. The higher the status, the more pronounced the 
fall. 


A career connected with labor and service is indicated; if the karma is 
exceedingly strong, then the person will exploit the labor of others along the 
lines of a capitalist or a corporate manager. Otherwise, the person will 
simply have a position as a manager of employees or simply be a well- 
remunerated worker himself. If Saturn is afflicted, then the native will have a 
humble service position. 


Saturn in the tenth is supportive of economic development, but it comes 
slowly and through the karakatva of Saturn or the things indicated by 
Saturn's lordship. 


An element of harshness and coldness is indicated. The person will be frank 
and blunt in his dealings. When Saturn suffers affliction, sadistic tendencies 
will be present. When Saturn is sublimated, Saturn's bluntness will manifest 
as straightforward dealings and simplicity. These indications are simply in 
accordance with the basic nature of Saturn which becomes modified 
according to placement, aspects, etc. 


Saturn's aspect on the fourth house suggests that the fourth-house karmas 
will be suppressed. Education, transportation karma, and property karma 
will all be diminished, interrupted and delayed. Saturn's aspect casts a 
serious mood to the house of mother- the more blemished Saturn becomes, 
the harder and colder the relationship with the mother. If other combinations 
concur, Saturn's aspect to the fourth can cause separation from the mother, 
bring about a stepmother, or the loss of mother. Melancholy is suggested by 
Saturn's aspect to the fourth, too. 


This planet's aspect to the seventh from here tends to cause a delay in 
marriage and give a cool relationship. 


In the eleventh: In this house, Saturn occupies the best of the upachayas, 
where malefics produce good results. And Saturn is arguably the worst of 
malefics, so he does all the better here! 


This is a placement productive of much wealth. Such wealth would come in 
relation to the natural indications of Saturn, for example, labor, mining, 
machinery, time or agriculture. The house ownership of Saturn as well as 
sign position would also be indicative of sources of wealth. Such wealth 
would come after much effort and after much time had passed. Wealth 
would also manifest in the latter half of life. 


One key word in relation to both progeny and siblings is "few" because 
Saturn occupies the house of older brothers here and aspects the house of 
progeny as a constrictive planet. There may be separation from these 
relations, a distant relationship, or the native may be bereft of older siblings 
altogether. Older brothers may be cool and harsh towards the native, 
depending on how the particular factors are disposed. 


Saturn gives high rank, status, and influence from this house. The native will 
have respect, probably because of his strict bearing, such that others become 
wary of him. 


Having the karaka in such a positive house benefits longevity. Success and 
development through all the karakatva of Saturn is supported by this 
placement. 


In the twelfth: The twelfth house is one of the worst places for Satum to be. 
There is even a puranic tale which illustrates this. Once Ravana, the king of 
the demons, rounded up all the planets in his eleventh house because all 
planets are productive of good there. Just before Ravana's duel with Shree 
Rama, however, Saturn jumped into the twelfth to spite Ravana and poison 
his luck. Because of this, Ravana cut off Saturn's leg, for which reason 
Saturn is lame and slow. If Saturn jumped into this house out of spite, it 
obviously isn't a good house for him to occupy. 


One of the main themes of Saturn in the twelfth is poverty- specifically, 
overwhelming and wasteful expenditures. Business loss goes without 
saying. Unfavorable debt is indicated by twelfth-house Saturn and the 
person with Saturn in the twelfth is a tightwad. 


Saturn here gives failure. Whatever a person has built up in life decays, most 
likely slowly, but it decays. The Saturmian period and sub periods are a time 
for laying low and waiting, not a time to build things up. Low status and 
servitude are indicated by Saturn here. 


Saturn acquires much evil in this house, so his aspect onto the house of 
enemies indicates that there will be many opponents and obstacles in 
general, specifically during the period and sub periods of Saturn. 


Twelfth-house Saturn also suggests constrictive living situations or even 
imprisonment if the affliction is strong. 


And since this house brings out the worst in Satum, depressive and 
melancholy moods come to the fore. The person lacks spirit and ambition. 


The aspect that Saturn casts to the second house can bring about tooth decay 
during its periods, too. 


Rahu and Ketu, the nodes- 


Rahu and Ketu will give the results of their sign lords to a great extent. Even 
so, they have their own results to give in terms of house placement. 
Therefore, we are only presenting the effects of house placement of the 
nodes, understanding that these different indications will be modified by the 
condition of the sign lords of the nodes. The nodes have been considered as 
a single axis, though some mention has been made where the results sharply 
differ. 


In the first: A consummate actor is indicated when the nodes occupy the 
first. The person is a chameleon, with a different personality for every 
environment. The native is eccentric and unorthodox. A mundane, even 
vulgar anchoring is present. 


In the second: Finances are eclipsed by nodal occupation of the second. The 
person talks too much and stammers; speech is stinging and even abusive. 
There is an untruthful tendency. Intoxication and smoking are indicated by 
the nodes here. Eyesight is weakened. 


In the third: Chamatkar Chintamani states that the person with Rahu in the 
third is "matchless in prowess." The same goes for Ketu, only that when 
Ketu occupies the third, the native is more argumentative. The native with 
the nodes in the third has high position and the ability to push across his or 
her agendas. Strength of arms is indicated by third-house nodal occupation. 
Relationships with collaterals are characterized by a coarse, bitter and 
argumentative element. 


In the fourth: In this house, the nodes eclipse mental peace and cause 
exaggerated amounts of worry, even unfounded paranoia and phobias. Trust 
is lacking in such a heart. Such disturbances grip the individual suddenly 
then let go, just as the nodes eclipse the luminaries and release. Fear of 
snakes and heights is typical of this placement, although the opposite will be 
true if the nodes occupy their own signs or signs of exaltations. 


Rahu would tend to give results more along the lines of depression and 
melancholy, while Ketu would give an exaggerated and easily provoked 
temper. 


Maternal karma is eclipsed; the tendency is towards early loss, separation or 
a stepmother. 


Nodal presence here suggests a predisposition towards heart attack, if other 


combinations are also indicative. 


In the fifth: The karma in terms of progeny is eclipsed somehow when either 
of the nodes occupies the fifth. There will be a miscarriage or abortion if 
other combinations also support this indication. Separation from offspring is 
a common result. 


Stomach ulcers are caused. 


An agile thinking process is indicated which can analyze things from 
various points of view. The mode of thought is revolutionary and 
unconventional. 


Prayer and spiritual practice suffer as a result of Rahu's occupation. Ketu 
confers focused concentration for meditation and mantra chanting. Karma 
along occult and mystic lines is present when Ketu occupies the fifth. 


In the sixth: From this house, the nodes confer status and the ability to carry 
out one's agendas. The native overcomes obstacles, enemies and is strong. 


Diseases, especially infectious diseases, are indicated. 


In the seventh: Marital karma is eclipsed by the nodes. Divorce, late 
marriage, paramours, and liaisons with divorcees are all indicated. 


The native has a versatile personality and is flexible. 


In the eighth: In this house the nodes eclipse the inheritance karma. A 
spastic colon, colic and constipation are indicated; diseases are hard to 
diagnose. Troubles from ghosts and mystic experiences are common. A 
worried, even phobic mind is indicated, as well as bouts with insanity. The 
person takes intoxications. 


In the ninth: Rahu in the ninth indicates an element of showiness or a desire 
for adoration in one's practice of religion. The person takes up baser forms 
of religion. A pragmatic attitude towards religion will be present if the frank 
and mundane influence of Mars and Saturn also come to bear, especially if 
the sheer logic of Mercury or his signs become involved. The person may 
fool himself about his level of spiritual understanding, and delusions along 
the lines of religious emotionalism may take place. 


Ketu, on the other hand, indicates focused concentration on prayer and 
meditation, just as in the other trine, the fifth. 


In the tenth: High rank and status are indicated by the nodes when they 
occupy the tenth. The person achieves his or her goals. This personality is 
unconventional and goes on pilgrimage. 


In the eleventh: Wealth is indicated by the nodes in the eleventh; earnings 
will be through unconventional or perverted means, at least during nodal 
periods and sub periods. Those desires will be achieved in the native's heart 
of hearts, other combinations permitting. A strained relationship will exist 
between the native and his friends and brothers. The native is brave and has 
strong arms. 


In the twelfth: Broken sleep and troubled dreams are the indications of nodal 
occupation of the twelfth. Sexual pleasures are eclipsed, or such pleasures 
will be clandestine, depending on the disposition of the nodes and other 
appropriate combinations. 


Poverty, expenses and servitude befall one under the influence of the 
twelfth-house nodes. 


Chapter Twelve: The Asterisms 
Along with the signs of the zodiac we take into consideration an underlying 
band of asterisms. These asterisms are also referred to as constellations, 


stars, lunar mansions and, in Sanskrit, nakshatras. Most commonly, they are 
simply referred to as stars. They are 27 in number. 


The reader may note the fact that these stars are classified by sex as either 
male, female or hermaphrodite. A further classification is important in terms 
of deva ganam, manushya ganam or rakshasa ganam, i.e., godly, earthly or 
materialistic qualities. Exaggerations and hasty conclusions should be 
avoided, as always. For example, the star Ardra- it is a star of harsh traits. 
Specifically, Ardra is a very critical star. Were it occupied by the Moon, 
however, that might simply indicate that a person is capable of critical 
thinking. Were such a person an engineer or something along those lines, 
such a dimension might be important to his work. But a person's total 
personality and nature are indicated by more than simply the lunar asterism, 
so again, no hasty conclusions, only all-encompassing ones. 


We will refer to the venerable classic Brihat Samhita by Viraha Mihir to 
anchor our understanding of the asterisms. Viraha Mihir is the same author 
of Brihat Jataka, to which we have already been exposed. It is one of the 
five stalwart astrological classics of India. 


1. The first of the asterisms is Ashvini. It is named for its devata, the Ashvini 
Kumars. In the sixth canto of Shrimad Bhagavatam, chapter six, verse forty- 
two, it is stated that these devatas are the twin sons of the Sun God, 
Vivashvan, and his wife Samjia. The ninth chapter, fifty-second verse 
affirms that they were instructed in the spiritual science by Dadichi Muni 
and that, after receiving instruction, they became Jivan Muktas, liberated 
souls. How natural, then, that the ganam or the quality of this star is godly, 
Deva Ganam. This is probably why the Brihat Samhita (translation by Rama 
Krishna Bhat, chapter fifty-one) ascribes such nice qualities such as "fond of 
omaments, lovely in appearance, attractive, efficient, and intelligent" to 
Ashvini. Chapter fifteen says that Ashvini represents "horse dealers, 
commandments, physicians, attunements, horses, horse-riders, merchants, 
handsome persons and horse grooms." 


The symbol of this star is a horse's face, and it is characterized by snorting, 
in the way that horses typically do. This symbol and characteristic are 
instructive; Ashvini indicates exhalation, inhalation, dawn and new 
beginnings. "Starting out" is its major theme. This all makes sense as it is the 


first asterism of the zodiac and carries with it no existing pattern. Thus the 
Exhalation depicted by the horse's snort; the initial inhalation that goes 
before is not in focus. 


In a less esoteric vein, horses, journeys and transport relate to Ashvini, as 
well as horse traders and horsemen. The Ashvini Kumars are celestial 
physicians. They gave youth to the aged Cyavanna Muni. Therefore the 
medical profession, healing and even surgery are related to Ashvini. 


2. The second asterism is Bharani: Its symbol is the womb and its devata is 
Yama, the God of Death and punishment. In fact, in the same verse of the 
Bhagavatam as mentioned above (6.6.42), it is stated that Yama is also an 
offspring of Vivashvan and Samjfia. Naturally, themes of Bharani are 
restraint, eclipse, covering from view, subjugation and suppression. 


Nourishment, upbringing and support are integral to Bharani along the lines 
of being responsible for a subordinate or paying wages. It is a female star of 
manushya or earthly qualities, it is not supposed to impart a godly 
disposition nor a demoniac one (which would be rakshasha ganam). 


This is hardly borne out in Brihat Samhita's (chapter fifteen) description of 
this star: "Those that feed on blood and flesh, cruel men, those that are 
engaged in killing, imprisoning and beating others, cereals, and those whom 
are devoid of character and dignity." 


Perhaps an esoteric perspective can reconcile the fact that Bharani is a 
manushya star though so many negative qualities have been accurately 
ascribed to it. The idea is that, by means of the severity of punishment, as its 
devata Yama typically dispenses, the conditioned soul comes to reform 
itself. So although Bharani is so severe, its severity is dovetailed towards a 
good purpose. This logic also makes sense because the earthly sphere is said 
to be little bit of heaven and a little bit of hell, hence the manushya or earthly 
classification. 


3. Krittika is a masculine star of rakshasa nature. It is referred to as the star 
of fire and its devata is Agni, the very God of Fire. The symbol is a sword 


or sharp axe. Krittika was the foster mother of Kartika, the Commander-in- 
Chief of the demigods. It should be obvious from everything associated with 
this star that Krittika is quite a severe one. It is a competitive star that has to 
do with such things as anger, fighting, action, and cutting. 


Agni as the devata suggests drive, energy and ambition. 


The fact that adoption is associated with this star suggests a maternal, 
protecting nature. Hence step mothers, nannies, foster parents, nurses and 
the concept of defending come under its aegis. 


In terms of professions, Krittika indicates police work, soldiering, 
engineering, manufacturing, and chemistry. 


According to the fifteenth chapter of Brihat Samhita Krittika presides over:” 
White flowers, brahmins who maintain and worship the sacred fire daily, 
knowers of sacred hymns, grammarians, miners, barbers, potters, priests and 
astrologers." 


The fifty-first chapter says that when one is born under this star a person has 
the following tendencies: "glutton, addicted to other's wives, brilliant." 


4. Rohini is the favorite star of the Moon, and is famous as the star under 
which Shree Krishna was born. In keeping with Rohini's lunar theme, 
waxing and waning correspond to Rohini. This is actually the nature of the 
mental platform, of which the Moon is indicative; to blow hot and cold. In 
the sixth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita, verses 25 and 26, Shree Krishna 
describes the mind of the conditioned soul as Cafichala, or unsteady, and 
opines that one should guide it by the rational intelligence. Other ideas of the 
Rohini-Moon connection are sensuality, growth, development, birth, 
sprouting vegetation, and cattle, especially cows. So nourishing is the nature 
of this star that an alternate name is Surabi, the celestial cow. 


In keeping with the cart symbol, Rohini indicates all kinds of conveyance 


and transport. 


Its comfort-loving nature definitely goes along with its manushya or earthly 
ganam. 


Brhat Samhita mentions in chapter fifteen that: "The following are ruled by 
Rohini: Observers of vows, merchants, kings, wealthy people, yogis, cart 
men, cows, bulls, aquatic animals, husbandmen, mountains and men in 
authority." 


Chapter fifty-one of the same work states: "The person born under Rohini 
will be truthful, pure, sweet-tongued, with a steady mind and lovely in 
appearance." Rohini has been observed to give rounded features. Brahma is 
the devata of Rohini. 


5. Mrigashira indicates people who are seekers. In fact, Mrigashira's symbol 
is a deer, so the typical way of a deer to turn its head, and look this way and 
that, corresponds to Mrigashira. An inquisitive nature is indicated by it, as is 
research, auditing, pursuit and investigation. Being fickle-minded, and 
darting here and there, are other ideas that correspond to Mrigashira. For this 
reason, in modern times, taxicab driving has been corresponded to the 
Mrigashira influence because of the simple nature of the job; cab drivers 
have to dart in and out of traffic in order to pick up and drop off passengers. 


Mrigashira's devata is the Moon, it is hermaphrodite and deva ganam or a 
godly star. Therefore, Mrigashira communicates tenderness, peacefulness, 
attachment to mother and feminine qualities. 


Chapter fifteen of Brihat Samhita says "The following are allotted to the 
constellation Mrigashira: Fragrant articles, garments, aquatic products, 
flowers, fruits, gems, forest dwellers, birds, beasts, those who partake of 
soma juice, musicians, lovers, and carriers of letters." 


Chapter fifty-one says: “One born under the star Mrigashira becomes fickle, 


clever, timid, eloquent, industrious, wealthy, and endowed with sensual 
pleasures." 


6. Ardra means "the teardrop." This name has reference to the suffering and 
cruelty occasioned by this star. Ardra communicates the idea of gnashing, 
crushing and oppressing. In this same sense, the press that squeezes seeds to 
make oil corresponds to the Ardra concept. 


In general, the Ardra element makes one debauched, haughty, mischievous, 
proud and ungrateful. 


Its devata is Rudra, which is the form Shiva took when he learned that Sati 
had committed suicide in fire upon being humiliated in her father's assembly. 
It is a terrifying, vengeful form. 


Brihat Samhita describes well the result of being bom under Ardra by 
saying "Murderers, executioners, animal catchers, liars, adulterers, thieves, 
rogues, creators of discord, cereals, cruel people, charmers, sorcerers, and 
those well versed in the art of contacting goblins- all these are assigned to 
the star Ardra" (Chapter fifteen). 


Chapter fifty-one tells us "The asterism Ardra makes one perfidious, 
haughty, ungrateful, cruel and sinful." 


7. Punarvasu is a male star of a godly nature. This makes sense as its devata 
is Aditi, the mother of the gods. So its influence is religious, righteous and 


happy. 


The main theme of this star is renovation, repetition, recurrence and renewal. 
Hence, Punarvasu depicts reincarnation. Purification also corresponds to this 
theme because one renovates and renews one's personality through 
purification. Moving and remodeling relate to Punarvasu, as does starting 
over. 


Because Punarvasu has to do with change, flexibility and mobility are 
concepts of Punarvasu. It has been described as a freedom-loving star such 
that one born under it cannot be tied down. 


Brihat Samhita (Chapter fifteen) says the following: "Under Punarvasu are 
placed the truthful, generous, pure, high-borm, handsome, intelligent, 
famous, the rich, best varieties of cereals, merchants, servants and artisans." 


Chapter fifty-one tells us that: "One born under the star Punarvasu will be 
self-controlled, happy, of good character, dull-witted, ailing, very thirsty and 
easily satisfied." 


8. Next comes Pushyami, also known as simply Pushya. The devata of 
Pushya is Brihaspati, the spiritual master of the demigods. Hence, the idea of 
being an advisor or teacher relates to Pushyami, as do professional, advice- 
giving occupations. That the devata is Brihaspati tells us that preceptors and 
priestly karmas are communicated by Pushyami, too. It is a thoughtful and 
religious star. 


The symbol of this star is the udder of a cow. Hence, it contributes a 
nourishing nature. It is a productive star. Key ideas of Pushyami are to 
thrive, flourish and blossom. In fact, the best of everything is said to be 
represented by Pushya; it is considered the best of the 27 stars. 


As one might already imagine, the ganam (quality) of Pushya is godly. 
Therefore, virtue, wisdom, learning and a tranquil mind are the indications 
of Pushya. 


Viraha Mihir mentions in the fifteenth chapter of his samhita that: "Under 
Pushya come barley, wheat, rice, sugarcane, forests, ministers, kings, ... 
virtuous men and those that are engaged in both big and small sacrifices." 


In the fifty-first chapter he says "One born under the star Pushya will 


possess a tranquil mind, amiable features, learning, affluence, and 
attachment to meritorious deeds." 


9. Ashlesha is the ninth asterism. It is a female star of rakshasa quality. Its 
devata is Sarpa, the serpent god, and its symbol the coiled snake. Ashlesha 
is quite the reptile star. Penetration, as represented by the stare of a snake, is 
one of its themes. As an example, it has been observed in a chart in which 
the ascendant and the Sun both occupy this asterism, the native makes eye 
contact and looks into a person with a type of curiosity. Ashlesha people are 
ruthlessly introspective and do not typically fool themselves with 
rationalizations. 


As a snake coils, so does the Ashlesha personality operate by entwining, 
embracing and involving others. In argument, such personalities even draw 
one in by offering up some type of exterior argument while seemingly 
pulling back themselves, only to snap forward at some point and sting. One 
is reminded of the way a snake rears back before striking forward. The 
Ashlesha personality is shrewd. 


Secretive and private are other reptile traits of the Ashlesha personality. As 
shrewd as a snake, the Ashlesha element can be deceitful and cunning. 


Since the ganam or quality of Ashlesha is rakshasa, it is not surprising that 
the Ashlesha nature has the tendency to torment, hurt or wound. The pain of 
poison is there in the serpent's bite. The mindset of the person born under 
this star can be so tactless and blunt as to be antisocial. 


The description of Ashlesha individuals in Brihat Samhita is not flattering: 
"The asterism Ashlesha makes one insincere, inclined to eat everything, 
sinful, ungrateful, as well as deceitful" (Chapter fifty-one). 


Chapter fifteen mentions some interesting correspondences: "To Ashlesha 
are assigned artificial things, bulbs, roots, fruits, insects, reptiles, poisons, 
robbers, cereals, and all classes of physicians." 


10. Makha begins concomitant with Leo. It is a female star of rakshasa 
nature. So Makha can be a severe asterism, as severe as the clouds for which 
it is named (makha means clouds). Clouds are imposing and grave. Great 
potencies are stored in them in the form of electricity. Lightning bolts release 
the energy of atomic bombs. The roaring of thunder scares all. 


Clouds are indicative of the Makha nature in other ways. Clouds pour water 
down on the oceans as well as on the dry lands of agriculturalists that need 
them, just as a wealthy man may give in munificent charity to one and all 
regardless of qualification or need. Suva karmas, or selfless acts, are 
ascribed to Makha. 


The symbol of Makha is the throne room, and this star communicates a royal 
bearing. In fact, the Sun is at its most majestic and imperial disposition here. 
Dignity, honor, majesty and lordship are among the qualities it bestows. 
Conservative people who carry on the family tradition are born under it. 
Maybe this is why Pitrigana, the demigod of one's forefather (the manes), is 
its devata. It is certainly why Makha people respect elders. 


Brihat Samhita opines that "The following are ruled by Makha: People rich 
in gold and corn, granaries, mountaineers, those who are devoted to parents 
and the manes, traders, heroes, camivorous beings and women-haters" 
(Chapter fifteen). 


Chapter fifty-one tells us "A person whose birth takes place under the star 
Makha will be very rich and will have many servants, will enjoy pleasures, 
worship the gods and the manes, and be very industrious." 


11. Purvaphalguni is a female star of earthly nature (manushya). Its symbol 
is a Swinging hammock and its devata is Bhagya, the dispenser of fortune. 


Purvaphalguni means "the fruit of the tree" which is an apt description of 
this star. To bring to fruition, to share good fortune, to provide welfare and 
deal sweetly with others are characteristics of Purvaphalguni. 


Brihat Samhita opines that "Actors, young women, amiable persons, 
musicians, artists, commodities, salt, cotton, honey, oil and boys are presided 
over by Purvaphalguni" in chapter fifteen. 


Chapter fifty-one says that "The star Purvaphalguni makes one sweet- 
tongued, liberal in gift, bright in appearance, fond of wandering, and a 
servant of the king." 


12. Uttaraphalguni literally refers to the "highest fruit" but it is usually 
translated to mean "the fig tree." It is similar to Purvaphalguni in that it has a 
sweet and fruitful nature to it; they are both feminine stars. The main 
difference is that qualities such as patronage, kindness, generosity, and an 
eagermess to help are more pronounced under this star. The idea of healing 
and giving relief are suggested by Uttaraphalguni. 


The fifteenth chapter of Brihat Samhita speaks highly of Uttaraphalguni by 
saying "Star Uttaraphalguni signifies kind-hearted people, the pure in 
conduct, heretics, charitable people, the learned, fine grains, rich men, those 
who are devoted to their duties and kings." 


Chapter fifty-one is equally flattering: "The person born under the star 
Uttaraphalguni will be very popular, will earn money by his learning, will 
be voluptuous and happy." 


The symbol of this star is a bed, its devata is Aryama and its ganam (quality) 
is earthly. 


13. Hasta is a godly star whose devata is Ravi and whose symbol is a 
clenched fist. Both devata and symbol suggest a desire to control. The acts 
of commanding and allowing are depicted by Hasta. Manual dexterity as 
well as handwriting and handicraft skills are suggested, as well as sleight of 
hand. Under negative conditions, stealing, pick pocketing or shoplifting 
might manifest under its influence. 


What does the Brihat Samhita say of this asterism? "Hasta rules thieves, 
elephants, those who travel in chariots, elephant drivers, artisans, 
commodities, cereals, men learned in the Vedas, and men of prowess" 
(chapter 15). 


The fifty-first chapter says that "The star Hasta makes one industrious, 
impudent, fond of drinking, merciless and thievish." 


14. Chitra means "the beautiful;" no wonder its symbol is a bright jewel. It 
calls to mind a beautiful object, such as a pretty picture, which enraptures. 


The devata of Chitra is Vishvakarma, the celestial architect and craftsman. 
So a talent for organizing programs and putting things in sequence is 
suggested by this star. The part of Chitra which lies in Virgo may have more 
to do with craftsmanship, construction, pre-assembled things, assembly 
lines, engineering, urban planning, accounting, writing, codes and computer 
programs. The other three fourths, which lay in Libra, would relate more to 
music and art. 


The fifteenth chapter of Brhat Samhita confirms these concepts by saying " 
Chitra presides over persons skilled in making ornaments, jewelry (or jewel 
examiners), dyeing (or painting), writing, singing or perfumery, as well as 
mathematicians, weavers, eye surgeons and kings corn." 


Chapter fifty-one says "Under the asterism Chitra one comes to have 
colorful garments and flower garlands as well as beautiful eyes and limbs." 


It is a female star of rakshasha nature. 


15. Svati is a godly star of female nature. Priests are born under it. Svati 
means "the sword." The idea is that one born under Svati can cut material 
attachments. 


The symbol is that of a sprout blowing in the wind, and Svati's devata is 
Vayu, the predominating deity of the air. The autonomous spirit of blowing 
free and being able to go here and there unrestricted is conveyed. The 
pranas or life airs are indicated by this asterism. 


Note that Brihat Samhita (chapter 15) mentions birds in relation to this airy 
asterism. "Under the jurisdiction of Svati are placed birds, beasts, horses, 
traders, grains that cause a lot of wind (like Bengal Gram), unsteady friends, 
feeble characters, ascetics and connoisseurs of wares." 


Chapter fifty-one: "The star Svati makes one self-controlled, clever in trade, 
kind-hearted, virtuous and of pleasant speech." 


16. Vishaka is known as "the star of purpose." This star invokes the idea of 
achieving a result through self discipline and keeping one's mind focused; 
even with a tinge of intensity, brushing other considerations aside. At any 
rate, Vishaka people have the ability to streamline their efforts towards 
success. 


The idea of materialistic worship, i.e., worship in order to achieve material 
results, is also suggested. To gratify and treat in a sweet manner with ulterior 
motives, we could even say adulation, corresponds to this star. 


How interesting that Vishaka is a star of rakshasa or materialistic nature. 
This would account for any pragmatic, selfish mindsets that those born 
under it may have. The ability to treat others in a sweet manner is a 
dimension accounted for by the feminine nature of the sign. Its symbol is a 
gateway decorated with leaves. Its devata is Shatragni, a form of Agni. 


Brihat Samhita (chapter fifteen) says: "Vishaka rules trees that bear red 
blossoms and fruits, sesame, green gram, cotton, black gram, Bengal gram 
and men devoted to Indra and Agni." 


Chapter fifty-one tells us: "One born under Vishaka becomes jealous, 
greedy, bright in appearance, clever in speech, and quarrelsome." 


17. Anuradha is a star similar to Vishaka in that it is a purposeful star. One 
difference is that Anuradha indicates a more affectionate and expressive 
nature. In addition, common causes, alliances, and camaraderie are other 
facets. The more positive twist than Vishaka can be explained by its deva 
ganam or godly nature. For this reason it is loving and pious. 


The devata is Mitra, one of the sons of Aditi. The promotion of friendship 
and exchange are attributed to him, as well as organizational abilities. 


"Anuradha rules men of prowess, heads of corporations, friends of the 
virtuous, lovers of assemblies, tourists, all honest persons in the world and 
all things that grow in autumn" (chapter fifteen, Brihat Samhita). 


Chapter fifty-one- "The person born under Anuradha becomes very 
wealthy, dwells in foreign lands, is unable to endure hunger, and wanders 
from place to place." 


18. One theme of Jyeshtha is simply to be the most important, the topmost. 
Executive talents are conferred by it. Its devata is Indra, who is certainly the 
chief executive of the demigods. Jyeshtha indicates seniority; for example, 
the oldest sibling is often corresponded to it. In ancient times, the oldest 
sibling was the inheritor and leader of the family. 


Jyeshtha is a male star of rakshasha nature, (coarse, materialistic). As might 
be expected, an element of abruptness and boldness are attributed to it. The 
Jyeshtha tendency is to not back down. 


The forceful nature of Jyeshtha is depicted in Brihat Samhita's fifteenth 
chapter: "To Jyeshtha belong great battle heroes, those who are noted for 
pedigree, wealth and fame; thieves, kings who are intent on conquests, and 


commandants." 


Chapter fifty-one confirms: "One born under Jyeshtha will not have many 
friends, will be contented, interested in meritorious deeds and exceedingly 
irritable." 


19. The asterism Moola is depicted by a bunch of roots tied together. The 
theme has to do with penetration, even penetration into the "root" cause of 
things. Beginnings, foundations, and support are also suggested by this 
symbol of a root. In addition, restriction, bondage and restraint, even to the 
point of not being able to repay loans, are suggested by the fact that the roots 
are tied together. 


J.N. Bhasin, in "Astrology in the Vedas," quotes the seventh sookta, 19th 
khanda of the Atharva Veda as defining Moola as a “dangerous star.” 
Maybe this fact is reinforced by the fact that its ganam is rakshasha, 
demoniac. 


Moola is hermaphrodite and its devata is Niritti. 


Brihat Samhita's comments, though short, are fraught with significance, as 
always. Chapter fifty-one: "Under Moola one becomes proud, wealthy, 
happy, of a gentle nature, firm-minded and luxurious in his living." 


Chapter fifteen points out that medicines and physicians are indications of 
Moola, which makes sense as many roots are medicinal: "Moola rules 
medicines, physicians, leaders of groups, those who deal in flowers, roots 
and fruits, exceedingly wealthy persons, and those who live only on roots 
and fruits." 


20. Purvashada means the invincible one, one not subdued. An autonomous 
state, being able to do what one wants, is suggested by it. To outlast and 
prevail are other qualities indicated by Purvashada. It is feminine. 


The symbol of Purvashada is a fan. The significance of this symbol has been 
interpreted such that, as a fan spreads air around, one's name or fame 
becomes spread around. The devata of Purvashada is Toya, who is 
connected with water in the Vedic literature. This reinforces the idea of 
one's fame being spread around. 


Brihat Samhita, chapter fifty-one: "The person bor under Purvashada will 
have an amiable and jolly wife, will be proud and firm in friendship." 


Chapter fifteen says: "Purvashada presides over people that are tender- 
hearted, navigators, fishermen, aquatic animals, the truthful, pure and 
wealthy, constructors of bridges, those who live by water, and aquatic 
flowers and fruits." 


21. Uttarashada is termed "the universal one" and in this sense has a 
similarity with Purvashada. However, whereas Purvashada is pervasive in 
an exterior way, Uttarashada is more suggestive of omnipresence and 
pervasiveness. This pervasive nature is indicated by the devata of 
Uttarashada, who is known as Ganadevata, although this title is actually 
more like a post comprised by ten different gods, the Vishvadevas- hence 
the pervasiveness. One wonders if Uttarashada isn’t indicative of hive 
consciousness. The symbol of Uttarashada is a tusk, and it is a feminine star. 


Brihat Samhita identifies this as a positive star. Chapter fifty-one says the 
following: "Birth under Uttarashada will make one modest, virtuous, with 
many friends, grateful and attractive." The fifteenth chapter follows suit: 
"Elephant drivers, wrestlers, elephants, horses, devotees of god, immovable 
things like trees, warriors, persons enjoying pleasure, and men of valor- all 
these come under Uttarashada." 


22. Shravan means hearing. It is connected to the goddess of learning, 
Saraswati, therefore, scholarship, an intellectual nature, communication, 
language and news come under its aegis. 


The devata of Shravan is Hari and its symbol consists of three footprints. 
This obviously has reference to the avatar Vamanadev, who crossed over 
the entire material and spiritual creations with two steps and placed the third 
on the head of his pure devotee, Bali Maharaja- thus, the deva ganam or 
divine nature of this star. 


Brihat Samhita elucidates a bit on this divine nature. It says: "One born 
under the asterism Shravan becomes learned, has a generous wife and is 
possessed of wealth and fame" (chapter fifty-one). 


"To Shravan belong jugglers, the ever-active, the efficient, the energetic, the 
righteous, devotees of Lord Vishnu, and the truthful" (chapter fifteen). 


23. Dhanishta is known as the star of symphony. Its symbol is a drum. It 
communicates musical talents, of course; melody and song correspond to it. 


The ability to unify others is attributed to Dhanishta. Due to this star's royal 
temperament, however, this may come about in a harsh or forceful way. 
After all, it is a rakshasa ganam star, imparting a materialistic point of view. 


Delayed or unhappy married life, temperamental differences and sexual 
impotence are signified by Dhanishta. 


The Brihat Samhita confirms this idiosyncrasy in the middle of this stanza 
from the fifteenth chapter: "Dhanishta rules the following: Men without 
pride, eunuchs, fast friends, men who are hated by women, charitable 
persons, the very wealthy, and peaceful (or self-controlled) persons." 


24. Satabhish is translated as the "hundred physicians." Cure, healers and 
medicines are principal indications. 


It is also known as the veiling star. Quiet people, hidden things, obstruction 
and restraint are other qualities communicated by it. 


Its devata is Varuna, the god of the oceans and rivers, such that worship for 
rain is conducted under it. 


That Satabhish is a star of materialistic, rakshasa nature (and hermaphrodite) 
may be seen in Brihat Samhita. Its negative, restrictive nature is seen in the 
very first two indications, if not in the entire description. "The following 
come under the star Satabhish: Snarers, anglers, aquatic products, dealers in 
fish, boar hunters, washer men, distillers and fowlers" (chapter fifteen). 


Chapter fifty-one tells us that "One born under the star Satabhish speaks 
clearly (or frankly), is unfortunate (or has some vice), conquers his enemies, 
is daring, and is hard to be won over." 


25. Purvabhadra is a male star symbolized by a double-faced man; its 
translation is "the burning pair." Its symbol is Rudra, a fierce form of Lord 
Shiva. To burn, punish, chastise and parch are chief themes of this star. Its 
nature is cruel, dry and hot. An unsteady, high-strung mind, prone to sudden 
anger, is characterized by it. 


These traits are obvious from the comments of Brihat Samhita: "Under 
Purvabhadra are placed thieves, cowherds, murderers, niggards, and those 
engaged in despicable and roguish activities, those devoid of virtuous or 
religious observances, and those that are clever in single combat" (chapter 
fifteen). 


"Under the star Purvabhadra one will be henpecked, unhappy, wealthy, 
clever, but a miser" (chapter 51). 


26. Uttarabhadra may also be translated "the burning pair" and its devata is 
Rudra, too, just as in the case of Purvabhadra. Fire and anger also have to 
do with this star, but here the ability to endure and control anger is indicated. 


The specific form of this Rudra is Abhibadhnu. Etymologically, this word 
makes reference to the death of illusion and attainment of the spiritual plane. 
Therefore, journeys, the idea of renunciation, leaving it all behind, and 
wandering correspond to Uttarabhadra. 


It is a male star of manushya ganam or earthly qualities. 


What does Brihat Samhita say about Uttarabhadra? "Brahmins, those that 
are engaged in sacrifice, charity and penance, very wealthy people, recluses, 
heretics, monarchs, and valuable grain- all these are ruled by Uttarabhadra." 
(Chapter fifteen). The fifty-first chapter describes thusly: "The person born 
under the asterism Uttarabhadra will be a good speaker, happy, blessed with 
children, will vanquish his enemies and be virtuous." 


27. Revati is the last of the 27 asterisms and shares its final point with the 
final point of Pisces. Finality and the last of things definitely correspond to 
it. Also time, as its symbol is a drum used for beating time. After all, time 
always leads to the end, such that the two are related and even synonymous 
in Revati. 


The devata of Revati is Pushan, a god characterized by guarding, protecting, 
finding the lost, giving shelter and such. Hence, fostering, adopting, 
supporting, nourishing, bringing up and shepherding all correspond to it. 


It is a deva ganam, pious star (and male), hence wealth, prosperity and 
progress correspond to it. In fact, Revati means wealthy. 


Let us take a final look at the fifteenth and fifty-first chapters of Brihat 
Samhita, respectively: 

"Revati rules aquatic products as well as fruits and flowers, salt, gems, 
conch shells, pearls, lotuses, perfumes, flowers, traders, sailors and 
helmsmen.” The fifty-first chapter: The star Revati gives one a symmetrical 
body, attractive, heroic, pure and wealthy." 


Thus we have finished our description of the 27 asterisms with the 
authoritative help of the Brihat Samhita of Viraha Mihir. The reader should 
remember that the position of the Moon and ascendant in these stars will go 
a long way towards indicating the character of any individual born under 
them. Any planet, during its period, will exhibit the qualities of the star it 
occupies to a great degree. 


Part III: Overall Judgment 
Chapter Thirteen: The Concept of Lordship 

Lordship refers to the ownership of planets over houses. Such ownership 
defines how a planet will function, from whence we derive the terms 
"functional benefic" and "functional malefic." This is different from a 
planet's innate nature. For example, Mercury is a benefic planet; a generous 
nature, skillfulness and rational intelligence correspond to this planet. And 
such will continue to be Mercury's qualitative nature irrespective of its 
lordship over houses. At the same time, whether or not Mercury will give 
positive, exterior results, also called "functional" results- for example, 
whether it will give debt or gain, fame or failure, depends largely on its 
ownership of houses. Lordship empowers a planet to do good or bad. 


Ownership over quadrants, trines, upachayas and dushthanas all affect a 
planet differently. Lordship over quadrants changes the basic character of a 
planet; benefic lords of quadrants produce evil while malefics become 
empowered with positive, functional results. 


Lordship over a trine always empowers a planet with beneficence, whether 
or not the planet is a natural benefic or malefic. For example, it doesn't 
matter whether Saturn, Mars or Jupiter is in question: as the lord of a trinal 
house, any one of these planets would have positive, functional results to 
give. Trinal lordship empowers benefics to produce good and benefics 
produce even more good than they would have. 


For an example of how a malefic can give positive functional results, which 
are the opposite of its basic nature, consider Mars in the tenth for Cancer 
ascendant. Mars is basically an aggressive malefic, although in this case, he 
would be the lord of good houses; a quadrant and a trine. The mere 


ownership of this combination by a planet suggests power and wealth. 
Because of the positive lordship in this case, the Martian energies would be 
channeled constructively and the native would be a force for good in the 
world. Mars would certainly give powerful, exterior results because of the 
ownership of good houses, but due to the innate nature of Mars, such results 
would continue to be Martian in nature. For example, the native might be 
involved in police work or fire fighting if the lordship over houses were so 
so, or the native might become wealthy as the owner of a munitions factory 
if the lordship were purely benefic. 


The lords of evil houses are, of course, evil themselves. Exceptions are the 
Sun and the Moon when they are the lords of the eighth; they are supposed 
to acquire no evil because of this. Parashara tells us that the lords of the 
second and twelfth are neutral, too; maybe this is meant in the sense that 
these lords act as chameleons in association with other planets and can 
reflect the results of other planets, at least to a degree. Dr. Raman has 
covered this phenomenon well in his commentary to the book Bhavartna- 
Ratnakara, in the section that deals with Virgo rising. But in general, know 
that the twelfth lord is not neutral! 


The lords of upachayas: the third, sixth, tenth and eleventh, are 
progressively negative. However, these lordships are modified in several 
cases. The sixth house is also a dushthana, an evil house, so such lordship is 
doubly evil. The tenth is also a quadrant, so the rules corresponding to 
malefic and benefic lordship over quadrants comes into play in this case. 
And even though the eleventh is an evil lord, he does give financial results, 
for what it's worth. 


To summarize lordship over negative houses, we can say that the lords of 
the third, sixth, eighth and eleventh are always evil, that the lord of the 
twelfth is usually evil unless well-associated, and that benefics which own 
quadrants will also have negative, functional results to give. 


In order to give the reader an idea of how these concepts are practically 
applied, we will now indicate the upshot in relation to planetary lordship for 
each sign. But first, we will have to give a brief definition of moolatrikona. 
The concept of moolatrikona can basically be defined as follows: a planet 


favors the indications of the house in which the moolatrikona sign falls. The 
moolatrikona is, in a sense, the main sign of the planet. The moolatrikonas 
are defined as follows: For Mars, Aries, for Mercury, Virgo, for Jupiter, 
Sagittarius, for Venus, Libra and for Satur, the moolatrikona is Aquarius. 


When Aries rises, for example, Saturn is functionally evil because his 
moolatrikona falls in the eleventh house, a house which is evil to own. This 
is so even though his other sign falls in a quadrant, which is good for him to 
own. Both of the houses which Mercury owns are evil. Venus, on the other 
hand, acquires functional evil because it becomes a benefic lord of a 
quadrant. Even worse, its moolatrikona falls in the quadrant. The Moon is 
also an evil lord because it owns a quadrant. Jupiter and Mars are the two 
favorable planets. Mars is favorable because he is the ascendant lord; notice 
that it is the moolatrikona of Mars which falls in the ascendant. The Sun is a 
positive lord thanks to his ownership of a trine, while Jupiter is favorable 
because his moolatrikona falls in the ninth house, the most favorable of 
trines. 


Taurus- Saturn is the unsullied lord of a quadrant and a trine, both of which 
are favorable, which makes Saturn an extremely positive planet when 
Taurus rises. The Sun is a good lord and functional benefic because the only 
house he owns empowers him favorably. The trine which Mercury owns 
corresponds to his moolatrikona, so Mercury is quite the benefic for Taurus 
ascendants. Venus has good results to give as the ascendant lord, but his 
moolatrikona falls in an evil house, the sixth, so his beneficence is curbed. 
The case of Mars for Taurus is similar; Mars owns a quadrant, which is 
functionally good for a malefic, but his moolatrikona falls in an evil house. 
The Moon and Jupiter are outright malefic lords. 


Gemini- The case of Mercury here is peculiar; the planet is mostly benefic 
because it is a natural benefic and because it owns the ascendant. On the 
other hand, the moolatrikona of Mercury falls in a quadrant. Remember that 
benefic ownership of quadrants is a negative thing functionally. So although 
Mercury is a benefic for Gemini ascendants, he is not completely favorable. 
The Sun and Mars are complete evil lords because they own evil houses, 
and Jupiter is a completely evil lord because he owns two quadrants. The 
Moon is a neutral lord and Saturn is a half-and-half lord; he owns an evil 
house as well as a benefic one. Even though Saturn's moolatrikona falls in 


the good house, the trine, Saturn is still decidedly evil for Gemini. This is 
because it is a matter of his natural evil nature and one bad lordship against 
one good lordship; even though the good lordship is a little stronger, two 
against one wins. Venus is, of course, a good lord for Gemini because its 
moolatrikona falls in a trinal house. Its other sign falls in a house that has 
been characterized as having neutral tendencies by Parashara, so the other 
lordship doesn't hurt the positive lordship. More advanced students will be 
very familiar with these concepts already, but we are being exhaustive in 
order to document things for the newer reader. 


Cancer- Mars is the Yogakaraka or completely favorable lord when Cancer 
rises because his signs fall in a quadrant and a trine. Keep in mind that 
ownership of quadrants makes malefic planets produce good. The Moon is 
an obviously good lord because it owns the ascendant. Jupiter owns a trine, 
and even though it is not the moolatrikona of Jupiter which falls there, 
Jupiter is still a favorable lord for Cancer as his natural benefic nature 
combines with what good the lordship does indicate. In fact, Jupiter can 
produce raja yoga for Cancer ascendants. As the second lord, the Sun is 
rather neutral. Saturn is a half-and-half lord once again, but an overall 
malefic planet because his natural evil nature tilts the balance. Mercury and 
Venus are both evil lords in keeping with the basic rules of house lordship 
delineated above. 


Leo- Mars is again the lord of both a quadrant and a trine and therefore a 
yogakaraka for Leo just as in the case of Cancer. The Sun is a completely 
benefic lord as the owner of the ascendant. Jupiter is also a benefic, maybe 
even a bit more so than for Cancer because it is the moolatrikona of Jupiter 
which falls in the trine. Saturn again owns a good house as well as a bad 
one, and his inherent evil nature tilts the balance once again. Venus and 
Mercury own no good houses and are evil by lordship under Leo, just as in 
Cancer. The Moon is not a positive lord because it owns the house of loss. 


Virgo- When Virgo rises, the very moolatrikona of Mercury falls in the 
ascendant. Therefore, this planet is mostly benefic in terms of lordship even 
though it is a benefic lord of two quadrants. Venus is definitely a benefic 
lord for Virgo even though its moolatrikona does not fall in the positive 
house (a trine). This is because the other sign, the moolatrikona, falls in the 
second house, a house which has neutral characteristics and basically cedes 


to the other ownership of the planet in question. The Sun is not a positive 
lord because it owns the twelfth house, which also has neutral 
characteristics. The Sun for Virgo is similar to the Moon for Leo. In both 
cases, their lordship is only neutral as they own no other signs. Therefore, 
they are very reflective of any other planets with which they may associate. 
Saturn owns a good and bad house again, and once again, it doesn't really 
matter where its moolatrikona falls; Saturn's natural evil tips the balance. 
Mars is an evil lord outright for both of Mercury's signs and Jupiter is a 
benefic lord of quadrants, which is functionally evil, for both of Mercury's 
signs, too. Needless to say, Mercury is friends with neither. The Moon is 
also an evil lord for Virgo as the lord of the most intense upachaya, the 
eleventh. 


Libra- Saturn is a spotlessly good lord for this sign of Venus just as it is 
when the other sign of Venus rises, Taurus. And this time, Venus is a 
decidedly good lord even though it owns an evil house. This is because its 
moolatrikona falls in the ascendant. Mercury owns a trine; hence, it is 
benefic by lordship. The moolatrikona of Mercury has no objections, so to 
speak, because it falls in a house which has neutral characteristics, the 
twelfth. Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon are completely evil by lordship. 
Although Mars owns a quadrant house (7th), it is not his moolatrikona 
which falls there. The seventh has some evil results to give anyway because 
it is a maraka-stan, a house through which death may manifest. So Mars is 
not a completely beneficial lord for Libra rising. And his natural malefic 
nature doesn't help. 


Scorpio- When Scorpio rises, it has to be remembered that the moolatrikona 
of Mars falls in the eighth house, an evil one. So even though Mars will give 
beneficial results when Scorpio rises, he is also known to give sudden 
troubles, even violent results, such as accidents. Jupiter is a good lord 
because he owns a trine and a basically neutral house. The Moon and the 
Sun are good lords, as they own a trine and a quadrant, respectively. Venus 
is a malefic lord because of its benefic ownership of a quadrant. Both of 
Mercury's houses are evil for any planet. Once again, Saturn's lordship is 
both good and bad. This is typical because Saturn owns two houses back-to- 
back such that this lordship pattern often pops up. 


Sagittarius- Mars is a good lord for Sagittarius because its moolatrikona falls 


in a trine- the other sign falls in a neutral house. Although Jupiter is a 
benefic lord of two quadrants for Sagittarius, his moolatrikona falls in the 
ascendant; so of course Jupiter is a good lord for his own ascendant. The 
only planet whose lordship is spotless is the Sun; he is a completely good 
lord. The Moon owns the eighth, which is a neutral lordship for the Moon. 
Venus and Mercury are completely negative in terms of lordship. Saturn 
owns an evil house and a neutral one, so he may be considered an evil lord 
for this ascendant. 


Capricorn- Venus becomes an unsullied lord for this ascendant. Saturn is a 
favorable lord because he owns the ascendant as well as the neutral second. 
Mercury is a fairly favorable lord because his moolatrikona falls in the ninth, 
a powerful trine. The Sun is the lord of the neutral eighth and the Moon is a 
benefic lord of a quadrant, hence the Moon is an evil lord. The moolatrikona 
of Mars falls in a quadrant, which is positive. However, his other sign falls 
in an evil house to own, the eleventh. This fact, coupled with the natural evil 
of Mars makes him a basically evil planet for Capricorn, though he can give 
powerful results, especially in terms of property and finance. Jupiter is an 
evil lord because he only has a neutral house to go along with his evil 
ownership of the third. 


Aquarius- Here again, Venus becomes a pure lord for a sign of Saturn. 
Although Saturn owns the ascendant, he also owns the house of loss; he is, 
however, considered a benefic lord. Notice that it is the moolatrikona which 
falls in the ascendant. The solar lordship over a quadrant makes him a 
benefic lord for this sign but the lunar lordship is simply evil. Mars is 
basically an evil lord because his moolatrikona falls in the third, an 
upachaya, which is evil in terms of lordship. Though Mars is quite rash and 
violent for Aquarius rising, he can still produce functional good in relation to 
his tenth house lordship. Jupiter's lordship is evil; at the same time, however, 
Jupiter is extremely well disposed to give wealth as the lord of the house of 
income as well as the house of gains. Jupiter's natural signification as the 
Dhanakaraka, the planetary indicator of wealth, must be factored into any 
judgment. 


Pisces- When Pisces rises, the fact that the moolatrikona of Jupiter falls in a 
quadrant house must be taken into consideration. Still, as a benefic and the 
lord of the ascendant, Jupiter functions well and is benefic for Pisces. The 


situation is different from the case of Venus under Taurus ascendant. In that 
case, the moolatrikona of Venus falls in a house that is very evil to own 
because it is a dustman as well as an upachaya. In this case, the lordship of 
benefic Jupiter over a quadrant is not as evil by comparison. The Moon and 
Mars are good lords for Pisces because they own trines. Even though the 
moolatrikona of Mars doesn't fall in the trine, his other house is neutral. 
Venus, the Sun and Mercury own only evil houses while Saturn is 
practically just as evil by lordship; he owns the eleventh, an upachaya, and 
the other house in which his sign falls does nothing to better this situation 
because it is a neutral house. 


The functional evil and benefic results due to lordship have been delineated 
and explained. After this, it is simply a matter of understanding that 
wherever a good lord goes, it benefits the house where it falls. In addition, if 
such a lord goes to a positive house and experiences positive influence, the 
house it owns becomes benefited, too. Conversely, wherever a nasty lord 
sits, the prospects of the receiving house become harmed. And if a lord goes 
to a nasty house, the prospects of the house it owns become harmed. 


Realize, too, that a situation is possible such that the house owned may 
become hurt while the receiving house may become benefited. For example, 
if a favorable lord occupies the eighth, that would have a positive impact on 
longevity. But because the lord of the house owned would be in the eighth, 
an evil house, the prospects of that house would be harmed. Hopefully, the 
reader's concept of lordship will be strengthened after reading the section 
entitled "Bringing It All Together." In this section, lordships are applied in a 
practical interpretation. 


Chapter Fourteen: Incorporating the Asterisms 


It is not enough to only consider the sign position of the ascendant and 
planets. In the classical astrological literature there are instructions for 
considering the horoscope in relation to the asterisms as well as to the signs. 
Indeed, all throughout the puranas and Vedas, the asterisms are given 
considerable attention. For example, in the Bhagavat Purana, it is described 
that Shree Krishna was born under the star Rohini. Of course, this is the 


most descriptive way to explain it because Rohini exists entirely within the 
sign Taurus. So by saying Rohini, Taurus is automatically included. In this 
way, many descriptions and calculations of time are referenced by asterism 
instead of sign, which indicates their prominence. 


One way in which the asterisms are incorporated into judgment is in terms 
of their qualities, just as in the case of the signs. For example, we know that 
the Sun in Aries is bold and challenging, while occupation of Virgo makes 
him shy and timid. In the same way, we look to see which asterism the 
ascendant, Moon and Sun occupy in order to judge the basic personality and 
tendencies, and which asterisms the planets occupy in order to judge their 
dispositions. This much should be easy to understand. 


In addition, we look at the asterism a planet occupies in terms of number 
sequence, just as we look at the house position of a planet (which is 
referenced by the sign ascending). This we may call "star placement." In this 
way there are three cycles or "paryayas" (in Sanskrit) of nine asterisms, each 
which repeat the same indications in terms of position. The paryayas are 
mostly used in electional astrology, muhurta; they will be explained here for 
the sake of being complete, but the reader doesn’t have to make a big issue 
of incorporating them into predictive astrology, not in general, certainly not 
in the beginning. The following definitions will help to clarify. 


. Janma tara or star- Natal star, moderately good 
. Sampath star- Wealth and prosperity 

. Vipath star- Dangers, losses and accidents 

. Kshema star- Prosperity 

. Pratyak star- Obstacles 

. Sadhana star- Realization of ambitions 

. Naidhana star- Dangers 

. Maitra star- Friendly, moderately favorable 

. Parama Maitra- Very favorable 


OANINDNKBWN KR 


According to the ancient texts, one's birth star should be calculated by the 
lunar asterism (called rashi) or the star ascending (called the lagna tara). This 
star would then be used as the starting point for the cycles and planetary 
period calculations. However, it is the general practice of the astrologers in 


India to favor the lunar asterism. 


As an example of how to incorporate star position, we shall consider the 
horoscope of John Lennon. Lennon's rashi or lunar asterism is Uttarashada. 
Saturn and Jupiter both occupy Bharani, the ninth star placement from the 
birth Ganma) star, an extremely good placement. Their planetary sub periods 
in Rahu were quite good for him, comprising the bulk of the Beatle years, 
along with Mercury. Mercury falls in Svati, in the fourth star placement, 
kshema, which is moderately good. 


Favorable star placements in terms of position contribute towards good 
results and offset evil influences from other indications. Similarly, evil 
placements are unfavorable and detract from the good results derived from 
other sources. 


Beside qualitative considerations and star placements, many astrologers in 
India make stellar considerations in terms of the lords of the different stars 
according to the Vimshottari scheme of things. For example, in the 
Vimshottari scheme, Saturn is the lord of Pushya, so one would consider 
Saturn’s strength in order to analyze the strength of a planet placed in 
Pushya. 


There are various problems with this technique. For one, Parashara does not 
give us this technique is his hora shastra, his astrological treatise. For 
another, the correspondences between planets and stars according to the 
Vimshottari scheme are not absolute. They have a specific purpose, which is 
only intended for the calculation of planetary periods according to that 
particular scheme. There are other schemes of planetary periods which 
mention other correspondences between the planets and stars, so the 
Vimshottari correspondences are not the last word. What is the justification 
for the correspondences of the Vimshottari scheme to translate into some 
kind of permanent lordship over the stars for predictive purposes? There 
does not seem to be any. 


One ends up defending some incongruent positions when one takes this 
stance. For example, Pushya is the most benefic and fruitful of the 27 


asterisms- Pushya is steeped in goodness. In the Vimshottari scheme, Saturn 
corresponds to Pushya. That may be all right for the calculation of the 
Vimshottari planetary periods because Parashara himself has indicated that it 
is so. However, Saturn is the worst malefic. He is a negative, cruel and cold 
planet, the planet of melancholy, the planet of scarcity and lack. How does 
one justify his lordship for predictive purposes over Pushya, the most 
benefic star? 


In the case of sign lordship, the planets which rule over the signs have some 
similarity of quality. For example, Jupiter rules over Pisces and Sagittarius. 
Jupiter is the planet of Dharma and spiritual understanding. In the case of 
Mercury, Mercury is the planet of abstractive intelligence, which 
corresponds to human intelligence- the animals do not possess abstractive 
intelligence. This adds up because the two signs of Mercury are depicted by 
human symbols. But again, what similarity does Saturn have with the star 
Pushya? 


The answer is “none.” We should not correspond the stars to planets for 
predictive purposes because Parashara Rishi has not given us this technique, 
because the Vimshottari correspondences are not absolute - there are other 
schemes of planetary periods which use other correspondences between the 
planets and the stars - and because one ends up defending some ridiculous 
astrological positions when this type of carrying over is adopted. 


Chapter Fifteen: The Timing of Events 

There are basically three tools by which an astrologer may time the 
occurrence of events. One of these tools is simply the chart itself, because a 
certain timing is suggested by house position, sign position, lordship and 
karakatva. The horoscope is the Kala Chakra, the wheel of time. The first 
house represents the beginning of life, and the end corresponds to the last 
degree of the twelfth. All other events fall at some point in between. The 
trick is corresponding a given event in life to a point on the chakra. 


For example, in one chart known to us, Cancer rises with the Sun very close 
to the rising degree. The native was born in a naval hospital. Why is this? 
Well, the first house represents the beginning of life. The Sun is a planet 


which represents physicians and hospitals. The Sun is also a warrior planet 
and a planet of the government. Cancer is a watery sign. So a warrior planet 
representing the government, in a watery sign, in a house that represents the 
beginning of life, indicated a birth in a naval hospital. This is timing. It is 
interesting that Mars, another warrior planet, occupies the house of father in 
that chart in another watery sign- Pisces. The native's father had been a 
career sailor. 


In this same chart, the house of inheritances (the eighth) experiences some 
affliction such that, at a certain point in his life, the native of the horoscope 
lost a small inheritance promised to him. For this reason, the native felt he 
was at a point in life represented by the eighth house; in other words, a little 
bit over the halfway point. 


During that same general time period, the native lost his father and shortly 
after, acquired some property (the acquisition was unrelated to the death). 
To the native's thinking, the death of his father confirmed that he was at the 
stage of life represented by the eighth house because the eighth is the house 
of loss from the house of the father (the eighth is the twelfth from the ninth). 


Mars is at the very beginning of the ninth house in this horoscope, 
wherefrom he aspects the fourth, the house of property. Mars himself is the 
Bhoomikaraka, the indicator of property. So when the native acquired some 
property shortly after his father's death, this made him feel that he was at a 
point on the Kala Chakra which now corresponded to the beginning of the 
ninth house; in other words, a bit further along. This sequence of events: the 
loss of an inheritance, the loss of father and the acquisition of property could 
not be explained by any other segment of the Kala Chakra, the horoscope. 
In this way, by relating events back to the houses of the horoscope, an 
astrologer can make determinations insofar as timing. 


Another of these tools is actually a system of planetary periods. The most 
prominent of planetary periods is the one known in Sanskrit as "Vimshottari 
dasha." It is a 120-year scheme of periods. It was originally made available 
to us by Parashara Muni in the Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, where 
various different schemes of planetary and sign-based periods are given. But 
the Maharishi points out that many of these schemes "are not appropriate for 


the purpose for which they are meant" and that "amongst them, Vimshottari 
is the most appropriate for the general population" (BPHS, Chapter 46). 


The basic idea is that the indications of the chart manifest through the 
different planetary periods. Whatever a planet promises in the chart will tend 
to occur during its period or sub period. This is not an absolute technique 
because the chart itself indicates a certain timing of events, as we have just 
gone over. Good judgment, in other words, the ability to blend various 
techniques into one conclusion, is called for. 


This scheme of planetary periods is basically divided into major periods and 
minor periods. The major periods carry the greater weight while the minor 
periods modify. If the lord of a minor period is indicative of a certain karma 
while the lord of the major period is not, then the karma will manifest only 
to a lesser degree. If the lord of a major period indicates a certain occurrence 
though the lord of the minor period does not, the karma will manifest quite a 
bit anyway- the idea is that the major lord has the greater say. If both the 
major as well as the minor lord concur on a given indication, then the results 
will manifest strongly. 


Let us assume, for example, that in a given chart the major planetary period 
of a favorable planet in the house of marriage is operating. At the same time, 
let us assume that the minor period corresponds to Venus, the karaka of 
marriage. Because both the minor lord, as well as the major lord, indicate 
similar results; we could confidently predict marriage. This would actually 
be a good example of how the planetary periods are supposed to be 
employed. But let us further assume that the native is young; let’s say that he 
or she is about 18 years old. In western culture, that is a young age for 
marriage. Furthermore, we will suppose that Saturn aspects the house of 
marriage and that it also happens to aspect Venus, the karaka. Let us say 
further that, in this example, Saturn is not too favorably disposed; we will 
say that he owns a favorable house as well as an unfavorable one. Well, 
Saturn is the planet of time and delays, and he affects not one but two major 
factors relating to marriage. So the tendency would be for marriage not to 
take place during the major and minor planetary periods in question, even 
though, on the basis of the planetary periods alone, it might seem like a 
classic case for predicting marriage without considering Saturn's delaying 
effect. 


Again, the idea is that the chart itself has its own indications in terms of 
timing. Not only do these indications need to be considered too, but they 
will probably carry more weight than any other considerations in terms of 
periods or transits. Why is this? Because nothing, simply nothing in Vedic 
astrology takes precedence over considerations in terms of house position, 
sign position, lordship and the natural significations of planets (karakatva). 
These are the main considerations, even in terms of chronology- other 
considerations become secondary. 


A third tool which Vedic astrology offers us has to do with the transits, the 
daily motions of the planets. In Sanskrit, the word for transit is gochara. 
Although the planets may have been at a certain points of the zodiac when 
the person was born, the movements of the planets continue. The location of 
those planets at any given moment is also indicative of horoscopic timing. 


If the major and minor planetary periods could be compared to the hour and 
minute hands of a clock, then the transits would be the seconds’ hand, so to 
speak. The reader should know, however, that the transits do not indicate 
independent results outside of the framework of the planetary periods. 
Rather, they are indicative of timing within that framework. 


In our above example, let us assume that the planet in the house of marriage 
is Jupiter, and let's forget about Saturn's delay for now. In this case, that 
would make the planetary period that of Jupiter-Venus. This period lasts two 
years and eight months exactly. Given that marriage results are predicted 
within this two year, eight month period, the question is, at exactly which 
point during this period will marriage come about? 


The two planets which set the stage for the timing of any event, so to speak, 
are Saturn and Jupiter; Saturn spends two and a half years in a sign while 
Jupiter spends about fourteen months. The other planets spend about a 
month or a month and a half, except for the Moon, which zips through a 
sign in two and a half days. The retrograde motion of Mars can see it spend 
up to six months in a given sign, but this is not the average stay. 


So let us say that, within the two years and eight months sub period, Jupiter 
begins a transit of the marriage house itself corresponding to the beginning 
of the second year. So within the Jupiter-Venus period, marriage would take 
place during the 14-month Jupiter transit. Now let us assume that, within 
that 14-month Jupiter transit, a favorable transit of Saturn begins during the 
last six months. So that six-month period would be the most likely time for 
marriage to occur. Now let us say that, although several favorable Venus 
transits occur during that six-month period, during the last six months such a 
transit happens along with several other favorable planetary movements. 
There is no use in over working the example, the readers can surely get the 
picture by now; within the scope of the planetary periods, the current transits 
narrow things down further and further, starting from Saturn and Jupiter. 
One can think in terms of overlapping windows of opportunity. 


But again, it must be understood that the transits will not bring about results 
that contradict results in terms of judgment of the chart and of the planetary 
periods. In our above example, let us now consider Saturn's aspect and the 
delay which it will cause. We will now assume that the person will pass 
through the Jupiter-Venus period without becoming married. An astrologer 
could not tum around and predict that, because Jupiter transits the house of 
marriage, and that because the ancient astrological scriptures connect 
marriage results to that transit, then the native of the chart will have to 
become married during that transit. Again, the transits do not jump over the 
head of what the planetary periods and the chart itself indicate, the chart 
itself carrying the greater weight. Viraha Mihir has affirmed this in the 103rd 
chapter, 46th verse of Brihat Samhita, (translation by Dr. K.N. Saraswaty in 
Gochara Phala) wherein the sage says: "Unless the person is having a 
beneficial planetary period, the mere transit of a beneficial planet will be of 
no avail, even as the gathering of dark, heavy clouds in spring cannot pour 
forth even a few inches of rain." The main function of the transits is to 
narrow things down within the framework of timing only. 


The following is a summary from Prasna Marg of the transit effects of 
planets in the different houses from the Moon. These results, in turn, are 
have been distilled from the Brihat Jataka. (Translation by B. Suryanarayan 
Rao). We say houses from the Moon, of course, because the transits of 
planets are judged by their movement in relation to the Moon, not from the 
ascendant. 


"Stanza 2. When the Sun transits the Janma Rashi (the sign occupied by the 
Moon at birth), fatigue, loss of good name and position, painful work and 
diseases afflict the native; in the second, loss of money and diseases of the 
eye, and deception from others may happen, in the third, one will experience 
elevation to a new position, ruin to one's enemies, increase of wealth and 
good health; in the fourth, he will meet with obstacles in the matter of 
enjoying the company of his wife and will suffer from diseases of the 
stomach. 


Stanza 3. In the fifth, affliction from enemies and diseases; in the sixth, 
recovery from illness, fall of enemies and pacification of all mental grief; in 
the seventh, fatigue from journeys, helplessness and diseases connected with 
the stomach; in the eighth, repulsion for women and from women and fear 
from the rulers and diseases. 


Stanza 4. In the ninth, calamities of all sorts, feelings of privation and severe 
diseases, and a break in one's profession; in the tenth, success in all 
undertakings and victory in all quarters; in the eleventh, promotion to an 
elevated position, general prosperity, recovery from diseases and a tendency 
to do good actions; in the twelfth, the native will not be able to reap the 
fruits of any good actions. 


Stanza 5. When the Moon transits his own radical position, he brings in 
wholesome food to the person's satisfaction, increased bed comfort, and gain 
of valuable things; in the second, the Moon causes troubles and obstacles to 
all good actions, loss of fame and of money; in the third, enjoyment with 
women, comfort from having good clothes and fresh acquisition of wealth; 
in the fourth, fear from others; and in the fifth, troubles of all sorts, 
obstruction to journeys. 


Stanza 6. In the sixth, gain of wealth, general happiness, peace with enemies 
and pacification of all diseases; wholesome and satisfactory food, presents 
from others, gain of money, comfortable sleep and enjoyment with women; 
in the eighth, trouble from fire; in the ninth, diseases in the stomach and fear 
of imprisonment; in the tenth, benefits from government; in the eleventh, 


visits from relatives and increase of wealth; and in the twelfth, loss of money 
and obstacles to all work. 


Stanza 7. When Mars transits the birth Moon, obstacles to all undertakings; 
in the second, fear from rulers, trouble from thieves and fire, sorrows caused 
by enemies, ailing of the body caused by mental and physical grief; in the 
third, gain of valuable metals, favor of God Subrahmanya and easy 
destruction of enemies; in the fourth, association with bad men, diseases in 
the stomach, high fever, unconscious flow of seminal fluid. 


Stanza 8. In the fifth, Mars gives troubles from foes, sorrows due to 
children, and dread from diseases; in the sixth, gain from valuable metals 
such as copper and gold, fear from quarrels and misunderstandings, fresh 
breaks with enemies; in the seventh, misunderstanding with the wife, 
diseases in the stomach and the eyes; in the eighth, blood pressure due to 
severe blows in the body or break of limbs and consequent diseases, fear 
from dishonor, mental depression. 


Stanza 9. In the ninth, loss of money, diseases and defeat; in the tenth, 
profits in all ways; in the eleventh, elevation to the headship of a village and 
general happiness; and in the twelfth, troubles of all sorts, waste of money, 
diseases due to heat, blood pressure and diseases in the eye. 


Stanza 10. When Mercury transits the radical Moon, it indicates quarrels and 
misunderstandings with relations, loss of money caused by libel or unlawful 
words and writings and journeys to distant places; in the second, fresh 
acquisition of wealth and influence and general prosperity; in the third, fear 
from enemies and anger from rulers; in the fourth, gain of money, prosperity 
to relatives and general progress of family; in the fifth, quarrels with wife 
and children. 


Stanzas 11 and 12. Mercury transiting the sixth indicates success in all 
things, general luck and rapid promotion; in the seventh, quarrels; in the 
eighth, victory, happiness from children, gain of clothes, increase of income, 
mental peace, and increase of learning; in the ninth, diseases of all kinds; in 
the tenth, destruction of enemies, gain of money, and happiness from 


women; in the eleventh, good speech, fresh gains, happiness and success in 
everything, better and closer association with wife and children; and in the 
twelfth, trouble from foes and diseases. 


Stanza 13. Jupiter transiting the birth moon involves loss of money, 
setbacks, quarrels and mental dejection; in the second, gain of wealth, ruin 
to foes, happiness to women; in the third, some change in profession, 
obstacles to all actions; in the fourth, sorrows caused by relatives, want of 
peace from all quarters; in the fifth, acquisition of vehicles such as horses or 
oxen, gain of ornaments and children, happiness from women, gain of 
clothes and dwelling houses; in the sixth, tendency to feel unhappy though 
having everything to make one comfortable. 


Stanza 14. In the seventh from the radical moon, Jupiter brings cleverness in 
speech, sharpness of intelligence, accomplishment of all actions and gain of 
money, happiness in sexual enjoyments; in the eighth, unbearable grief, 
diseases, loss of liberty, over-exertion and fatigue; in the ninth, profits, 
happiness with wife and children, acquisition of authority, accomplishments, 
and success in all actions; in the tenth, loss of position or profession, wealth, 
and fruitlessness of all actions. 


Stanza 15. Jupiter transiting the eleventh indicates favors, success in all 
actions, and elevation to a distinguished station in life; in the twelfth, fatigue 
caused by long walks and severe miseries in life. 


Stanza 16. Venus transiting the natal moon denotes getting wholesome food, 
enjoyment with wife, gain of perfumed articles, fresh sleeping materials, 
valuable clothes, and happiness resulting from these. 


Stanza 17. Venus in the second gives wealth and grains, acquisition of 
omaments and flowers, favor of rulers and happiness for the family 
members; in the third, respect and regard for one's opinions, profits and 
honors from others, acquisition of clothes and destruction of enemies; and in 
the fourth, happy reconciliation with relatives and great prosperity. 


Stanza 18. Venus transiting the fifth indicates gain of money, birth of 
children, help from relatives, satisfaction for the elders; in the sixth, troubles 
from enemies and diseases; in the seventh, trouble and danger from women; 
in the eighth, happiness resulting from women, acquisition of household 
utensils and ornaments in the family; in the ninth, gain of wealth, fruition of 
liberal and charitable actions, and happiness and enjoyment with women. 


Stanza. Venus transiting the tenth causes rivalry, quarrels and dishonor; in 
the eleventh, enjoyment of good food, gain of perfumed articles and favor 
from relatives; and in the twelfth, gain of wealth in many ways and 
acquisition of clothes and ornaments. 


Stanza 20. Saturn transiting birth moon causes fear from poison and fire, 
loss of relatives and friends, exile to distant lands, quarrels with one's own 
relatives, misunderstandings due to monetary transactions and journeys to 
distant places. 


Stanza 21. Saturn in the second causes loss of wealth, happiness and of 
health, as well as a decrease in desires; in the third, gain of elephants, 
buffaloes, good health and successful termination of all actions. 


Stanza 22. Saturn in the fourth brings a cloud to the mind, separation from 
wife and one's own wealth; quarrels with all; in the fifth, sorrows arising 
from death of children. 


Stanza 23. In the sixth, pacification of enemies and diseases; in the seventh, 
inttmacy with female servants and distant journeys; in the eighth, 
misunderstandings with one's own people and extreme helplessness. Saturn 
in the ninth, enmity with all, imprisonment or bondage, obstruction to one's 
charitable actions and heart trouble; in the tenth, loss of fame, wealth and 
education, and success in one's actions (karma phala). 


Stanza 24. Saturn in the eleventh, intimacy with other women, huge profits, 
increase of honor and authority; in the twelfth, succession of intermittent 
grief and overwhelming calamities in life. 


Stanza 25. Planets in the course of their transits contribute both good and 
evil to the native. But, they may be made to do good by propitiation, 
offerings, etc. 


Stanza 26. The Sun and Mars give their transit effects when they are in the 
beginning of the sign; Jupiter and Venus in the middle part; and the Moon 
and Saturn in the last part. Mercury gives his effects throughout the sign." 


The daily location of the planets in the different signs of the zodiac may be 
found out simply by consulting an ephemeris. As an alternative, any 
horoscope computer calculated for the moment would, of course, give the 
current positions of the planets. 


Chapter Sixteen: Aspects 
The term "aspect" refers to the way in which a planet throws its influence on 
another planet or sign. In Sanskrit, aspects are referred to as drishti or vision. 


All planets fully aspect the house opposite them. This type of aspect is called 
an "opposition" aspect in English. In addition, Parashara informs us that 
Mars fully aspects the houses fourth and eighth from him; this is called a 
"square" aspect. Saturn throws a full aspect to the third and tenth houses 
from him in a "sextile" aspect. Lastly, Jupiter, Rahu and Ketu fully aspect 
the fifth and ninth houses from the places where they are located. This is 
called a trinal aspect. 


There are other aspects in addition to the full aspects. For example, the 
square aspects of all planets are 3/4 aspects, except for Mars, who throws 
with full power to those houses. Other than these, we don't really want to 
get too involved in lesser aspects as they will end up confusing us because 
they simply don't have the same impact. 


Technically, the brunt of an aspect falls on a point at a certain distance from 


it. To be more specific, opposition aspects fall 180 degrees away, trinal 
aspects fall 120 degrees away, square aspects fall 90 degrees away while 
sextile aspects fall 60 degrees away. But aspects are powerful enough that if 
an aspect simply falls in a house, it may be deemed to radiate within the 
whole house, irrespective of the exact point at which it falls. To make a long 
story short, an interpreter should simply count aspects on a house-to-house 
basis. 


It should be pointed out that the nature of the aspect, good or bad, is 
determined by the disposition of the planet in the horoscope. This is different 
from western and Tajaka (Muslim) astrology in which the very nature of the 
aspect determines whether it is good or bad. For example, an eighth-house 
aspect would be considered negative simply because it is an eighth house 
aspect. 


Chapter Seventeen: Divisional Charts and the Navamsha 


There are sixteen divisional charts or shodasha vargas given by Parashara 
Muni in his Astrological treatise or "hora shastra." The principal of these is 
the navamsha. In Sanskrit, the word nava means nine and the word amsha 
means part. So the navamsha chart refers to a nine fold division of a sign, 
such that each sign is divided into nine parts of three degrees, twenty 
minutes. These subdivisions give us a closer look at the influences that 
surround a planet in terms of sign placement. Please consult the diagram for 
an overview. 


To give a better idea, we can compare good sign position with a royal road. 
The royal roads are well kept and are good to travel on. But even the royal 
roads have some bad stretches, for example, a rocky stretch or a stretch that 
goes through mountains and is curvy. In the same way, even a planet's good 
sign may have a bad navamsha which can take the wind out of its sails, so to 
speak, and diminish the strength of the placement. The point is that 
navamsha position modifies a planet in terms of sign placement. 


It has to be understood, though, that the navamsha and other sub divisions 
do not go so far as to jump up and contradict indications in the main chart. 
Rather, they are secondary, helpful for making decisions on the margin. Dr. 
B.V. Raman confirms this in a purport of the classic Prashna Marg, 
wherein he states: "Further, the navamsha may be referred to only when the 
rashi (sign placement) is satisfactory. Here, since the rashi (birth chart) chart 
itself does not ensure happiness (isn't strong enough to give the results in this 
case), the navamsha may be shelved." Keep in mind that Dr. Raman is an 
astrologer who, throughout the long run of his literary career, has always 
considered navamsha position. In all of his books the navamsha is printed 
right alongside the main chart, and its indications are examined. The same 
format has been followed in The Astrological Magazine, which he edited for 
some sixty years or so. So when a man such as this tells us that, when the 
sign consideration in the main chart does not support a certain consideration 
and that the navamsha doesn't have the authority to change things, then we 
don't want to take such advice lightly. 


To give an example of how the navamsha is used to make decisions on the 
margin, let's say that an astrologer sees that a planet is fairly strong in terms 
of lordship and house placement, but that the astrologer is not convinced 


about the planet's ability to give results because said planet is weak sign- 
wise. If the astrologer then notices that the planet occupies a favorable sign 
in the navamsha, then his objections in terms of sign strength may be 
allayed. 


Not only do we take into consideration the planet's sign position in the 
navamsha, but we consider its house position and lordship there, too. Let us 
say that an astrologer is contemplating the marriage karma of an individual. 
He feels that a certain planet has some results to give in terms of this karma, 
but the planet doesn't seem strong enough. If he were to notice, though, that 
the planet occupies the house of marriage in the navamsha, or owns the 
house, a seasoned astrologer would realize that this reinforces the results that 
the planet has to give in terms of marriage, such that the astrologer would 
feel more confident about predicting marriage results in relation to the 
planet. Even so, the fact that the divisional charts are secondary indicators 
which only modify to a certain extent should not be lost sight of. 


Me 04:22 Ve 08:46 
Ju 12:09 Mo 19:46 
5 3 
Su 18:44 
AS 21:38 
4 
Sa 02:55 +. 


8 


Raton 12 Maoose 


aN 


An example of the dominance of the birth chart is given by the above chart. 
In the Jupiter dasha, the native lived a very comfortable middle class life. In 
the Saturn dasha, however, the native lived a humble life in an ashram, with 
little respect from any quarter, subject to servitude and bad treatment- there 
have been better examples of ashram life. This is par for the course- par for 


the placement- in the birth chart as Saturn occupies Scorpio with debilitated 
Rahu, and is the lord of the eighth. 


In the navamsha which follows, however, Saturn aspects his own sign in the 
ascendant from the seventh, where he sits with exalted Jupiter in a quadrant 
and with Mars-the-lord-of a quadrant. 


ee 


nes GS a 


Such a placement should indicate high status and insulation from the 
situation described in the paragraph above but alas, perhaps “the navamsha 
may be shelved“ because the navamsha placement was not nearly as 
forceful as the placement in the main chart. 


The dasamsha chart does no better- Saturn sits in the tenth as the 
yogakaraka! 


Actually, both the navamsha placement as well as the placement in the 
dasamsha have some meaning. In the navamsha, Saturn in the seventh 
corresponded well to the native’s marriage karma; the karma was 
interrupted, the native married late and married a divorcee. Saturn in the 
tenth in the dasamsha indicated his occupation during the Saturn dasha, that 
of a monk. But in neither case did the divisional charts even begin to 
indicate the low, insignificant status of the native during the Saturn period. 
In fact, Saturn in both charts indicated just the opposite, 1.e., high status. 


The chart above is a high-quality example because we may place much 
confidence in the birth time- the time was recorded by a naval officer in a 


military hospital. 


This leads us to another point to consider. Judgment involving divisional 
charts requires exact birth data. A sign in the birth chart will remain on the 
horizon for a while, an hour and a half or two hours. But divisional signs 
rotate much faster. In a matter of minutes the divisional signs may rotate. So 
it can be difficult to know which 1s the true divisional ascendant, hence it is 
hard to have confidence in the house position of divisional charts unless the 
exact birth time is known. Also, rectification on the level of navamsha or 
dasamsha can be a subtle matter, not so easy to pinpoint. 


The following birth chart is another one whose birth data is ironclad. The 
clocks and watches in the birthing center were all set and corrected on the 
day of birth. The moment of birth was marked exactly, and the umbilical 
cord was cut at the very same moment. 


Nia 14:40 
Mo 1627 


The karma in relation to father is severely afflicted. In the birth chart, the 
Sun is afflicted by occupation of the eighth in debilitation with the nodes. 
Bad-lord Saturn occupies the house of father and the lord sits in the seventh 
next to a very waning moon. (His mother got possession and moved away 
when he was two). 


In the navamsha, however, none of this father karma is indicated. 


Ra 


NS Bee 
The Sun and the lord of the ninth, Mars, both occupy the tenth with two 
benefics, Jupiter and the Moon. 


In the dvadasamsha chart, which is the divisional chart pertaining to parents, 
the situation is not indicated, either. The lord of the ninth, Jupiter, occupies a 
quadrant, the fourth, with the Sun. Venus, a benefic, occupies the house of 


en 


a 


There are certainly no great afflictions to the father karma indicated in this 
chart. 


Enough! Divisional charts are subsidiary charts that do not carry the same 
weight as the indications in the birth chart, not at all. They may be helpful 
for decisions on the margin, but certainly when the results are clearly 


indicated in the birth chart, then where do the divisional charts belong in the 
analysis? Dr. Raman has already indicated where- “shelved.” 


The sixteen divisional charts and their significations are as follows. 
Remember that the navamsha is the main divisional chart; for everyday 
interpretations, many astrologers in India principally consult the birth chart 
and navamsha. Note that the navamsha has a dual role as the specific 
divisional chart which deals with marriage. 


1. Janma: The janma chart is the main chart, also referred to as the rashi. It is 
the basis of the horoscope and has reference to all karmas in general. It is not 
a sub division. 

. Hora: Wealth 

. Drekshana: Happiness and siblings 

. Chaturhamsa: Destiny 

. Saptamsa: Children 

. Navamsha: Spouse 

. Dasamsa: Great success 

. Dvadasamsa: Parents 

. Sodasamsha: conveyance 

10. Visamsha: Spiritual progress 

11. Chaturvisamsha: Knowledge 

12. Saptavisamsha: Strength 

13. Trisamsha: Misfortune 

14. Kavedamsa: Both auspicious or inauspicious effects 

15. Akshavedamsa: Patrilineal patrimony 

16. Shastiamsa: All matters 


OMANINNBWN 


Chapter Eighteen: The True Horoscope of A.C. Bhaktivedanta 
Swami, Prabhupada 


The horoscope of Abhay Charan Bhaktivedanta Swami, Prabhupada, will 
serve as an example chart which allows us to bring together the component 
parts of Vedic astrology and see how it functions as a system of judgment. 
Hopefully, the reader will be able to recognize the correspondence of the life 
events of this saint to the astrological indicators. 

A contention exists about which is the true horoscope of A. C. 
Bhaktivedanta Swami, Prabhupada. More specifically, the contention 
centers on whether the true rising sign is Sagittarius or Capricorn. A little bit 
of background in relation to the contention helps to understand the 
controversy and sort things out. Towards the end of his life, there was some 
attempt by his disciples to identify the horoscope of their guru. They were 
concemed about his health and longevity as he had been sick. He was 
confronted with three different horoscopes, each with a different rising sign: 
Scorpio, Sagittarius and Capricorn. 


It has been said that A.C. Bhaktivedanta recognized the Capricorn chart, 
which had been presented by Pandit Ojha. 


In spite of this, a section of the astrological community feels that Sagittarius 
is his true rising sign. In face of the choice of Capricorn by none other than 
A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami himself, how can anyone justify otherwise? 
Well, remember that Bhaktivedanta Swami himself was not an astrologer, 
and never claimed to have studied astrology. That he settled on the 
horoscope with Capricorn as the rising sign is hardly proof, there was no 
cross examination of the astrologer at all. This could just mean that the 
astrologer presenting Capricorn was impressive, or that Shrila Prabhupada 
had always been told that Capricorn was his rising sign such that he never 
gave it enough importance to investigate, or something along that order. It is 
difficult enough for an actual astrologer rectify a chart by matching the 
events of a person’s life to the chart, what to speak of having a lay person in 
astrology “ recognize “ or “identify“ which chart corresponds to his life. As 
far as we know, Bhaktivedanta Swami didn’t invoke any type of 
clairvoyance or contact with the Supersoul to confirm Capricorn as the 
ascendant. 


There is no reason not to believe that, if someone had brought a difference 
of opinion to his attention and had explained things correctly, he would not 
have accepted Sagittarius as his rising sign. Cases wherein he changed his 
mind after discussing things with his disciples are not lacking. 


An interesting point is that Shrila Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati, A.C. 
Bhaktivedanta Swami’s guru, was a great astrologer, but we have never 
heard of any discussion between A.C. Bhaktivedanta and Shrila 
Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati about A.C. Bhaktivedanta’s horoscope. And 
actually, by the time that they met, Shrila Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati had left 
astrology by the wayside in favor of full-time vaishnava evangelism. We just 
don’t know what the opinion of Bhaktivedanta Swami’s own guru, an 
astrologer, was or would have been. 


The lay person reading this may not understand the reason for the 
contention, but it is very simple; if Shrila Prabhupada’s reported birth time 
was off by a very short amount of time, less than half an hour or so, then the 
calculated ascendant would change from Capricorn to Sagittarius. 


Let us understand this issue fully. First of all, what do we mean by “reported 


time?” We are referring to a time zone in India where, at the time, the city of 
Calcutta was on one time zone, and the surrounding province of Bengal on 
another. This is confusing! What if a person lived in the outskirts of town? 
Which time zone would he use? Were things strict and uniform in this 
regard back then in India? I imagine not. Even in America, in those days, 
from one train station to another, towns were known to use different time 
zones, what to speak of India. 


And then who was it that reported the time? Probably Shrila Prabhupada’s 
parents. Were they so concerned in the first place, and did they know to 
record the exact birth time? Had they been schooled about all the possible 
astrological implications? Were they able to call the telephone company and 
get an accurate time check? (No) Did the clocks of the 1890s in India keep 
good time? Or were they like the old grandfather clocks which had to be 
periodically adjusted or re-set? It is a recorded fact in the time zone literature 
that not all of Bengal was observing the same time zone back in those days; 
there were even half hour differences. 


When faced with an ascendant near the borderline between two signs, all 
astrologers have to investigate the possibility of what they call rectification. 
This means that they have to see if the horoscope truly corresponds to the 
life of the native. If not, then they have to consider the possibilities offered 
by the other rising sign. It is more accurate to start by investigating the chart 
itself, interrogate, check both ascendants to see if the life events correspond, 
and then confirm or change the birth time; rather than to take a borderline 
birth time for granted. All practiced astrologers understand this and have 
dealt with this problem. 


The astrologers in the Sagittarius camp feel the need to raise objections 
when Capricorn is presented as the true rising sign. The contention is more 
delicate than it might seem insofar as a phenomenon might seem justifiable 
from both charts. For example, one could at least argue a case for the 
existence of children, and business along pharmaceutical lines, from both 
charts. (Earlier in his life, Bhaktivedanta Swami worked as a pharmacist, 
both in a laboratory as well as in his own pharmacy) But there are other 
major life events which can only be reasonably explained by the Sagittarius 
chart. They are: Shrila Prabhupada’s authorship, the type of success that his 
Hare Krishna movement had during the Seventies, and the fact that he had 


only one older sibling, a sister. 


When one examines any action or event, there are several basic elements of 
a chart which must be considered. On one hand, we look at the house which 
stands for the affair or event in question, its occupants, any aspects which it 
might receive and the position of its lord. 


At the same time, we examine the karaka or natural indicator. I will give a 
few examples of karakas to review the meaning of karaka. The Moon is the 
karaka of one’s mother, the Sun is the karaka of one’s father, also of the 
king, Mars is the karaka of brothers and Venus is the karaka of one’s love 
life. So, just as any issue has a house which represents it, there is a 
corresponding planetary indicator which naturally represents it, too. With 
this in mind, let’s examine the authorship issue from Bhaktivedanta Swami’s 
two supposed charts. 


The Vedic astrological literature unequivocally indicates Mercury as the 
indicator of writing, authorship and books. In the Capricorn chart, Mercury 
occupies its sign of exaltation, Virgo, in a benefic and pious house, the 
ninth. It forms raj yoga there with Venus, raj yoga being a tremendous 
combination for power and influence. So at first glance, the Capricorn chart 
supports the type of religious authorship that Shrila Prabhupada enjoyed. 


But the lord of the house of authorship, Jupiter, occupies the eighth house. 
The eighth is the most evil house in any horoscope. The affairs represented 
by any planet or lord who falls there are said to disintegrate and the strength 
of such a planet is described in the Vedic astrological literature by adjectives 
such as “feeble.” In spite of the strength of one of the indicators, the karaka 
Mercury, and the fact that Mercury aspects or throws its influence on the 
house of authors, the absolute weakness of the lord of that house does not 
support the idea of a world-famous author who wrote and organized the 
distribution of so many millions of his books. 


And the nature of any religious writings indicated by Jupiter in the evil 
eighth house, afflicted by the Rahu - Ketu axis, would not be of the nature 
of the pure devotion to Krishna of which Shrila Prabhupada wrote. The 


Rahu-Ketu combination together with Jupiter goes by the name of Guru- 
Chandala yoga in Vedic astrology, and is indicative of dharmas of lesser 
understandings. For example, when this combination is prominent in a 
horoscope, the traditional texts indicate that the person takes up Islam or 
Christianity, religions of the meat-eaters. I have seen this combination 
indicate comprehension troubles in the charts of many people investigating 
Vedic dharma, without carrying the added affliction of occurring in the evil 
eighth, as in the case of the Capricorn chart. So this afflicted third-lord 
Jupiter with the Rahu-Ketu axis, in an evil house, is not indicative of 
Bhaktivedanta Swami’s writings, which follow a strict, devotional line. 


Nor does the idea of a vipreet raj yoga save the day for Capricorn as the 
ascendant. A vipreet raj yoga results when the lords of evil houses occupy 
another evil house, the evil destroying the evil, thereby producing good. It is 
true that the lord of the twelfth and third house, Jupiter, occupies the evil 
eighth. But the Sun also occupies the house in its own sign. This is a source 
of traditional strength such that the vipreet raj yoga does not occur. This 
situation of the lord of the house of authors, Jupiter, simply does not support 
the quantity and quality of authorship karma which A.C. Bhaktivedanta 
enjoyed. 


On the other hand, the Sagittarius chart has four resounding indications 
which suggest great literary success, with no blemishes. They are: 


1. Again, the natural indicator Mercury occupies his sign of exaltation- that 
doesn’t change from one chart to the next. But the house which Mercury 
occupies does change- Mercury occupies the house of occupation and 
career, which is certainly a natural place for it to be in Bhaktivedanta 
Swami’s chart, Bhaktivedanta Swami being a writer. 

2. Rahu occupies the house of authorship. Rahu gives very good results 
from that house, the third. 

3. Jupiter and the Sun aspect the house of authors, as good lords, from the 
ninth house, a very pious and benefic house, wherefrom they form a great 
raj yoga. This aspect greatly strengthens the house of authors and 
spiritualizes Rahu. 

4. Finally, the lord of the house of authors occupies his sign of exaltation, 
this lord being Saturn in the eleventh. Not only is Libra the best sign for this 
planet, but the eleventh is the best house for Saturn! 


Now these are the kind of indications which would (and did) make an 
author a million-book seller over and over again. One just doesn’t see 
planetary combinations like this every day. Unfortunately, the indications for 
authorship according to the Capricorn chart wane pale. 


Another issue has to do with the fact that the heyday of the Hare Krishna 
movement took place during the major planetary period of Ketu. During the 
period of a planet, the indications promised by it in the chart become 
activated. The Ketu period started in May of 1971. Previous to that, the 
major period corresponded to Mercury, the minor period belonging to 
Saturn from August of ‘68 until May of 71. 


In the Capricorn chart, does Ketu in the evil eighth house with Jupiter and 
the ninth lord, the Sun, indicate any great spirituality? We have already 
responded to that question by identifying the combination as an afflicted, 
Guru-Chandala yoga, so the answer to this question is no. 


Does Ketu in the eighth suggest any type of strong success? Not according 
to the Capricorn chart. There is no vipreet effect occurring, such that the 
eighth is simply a terrible house placement for Ketu. Nothing overcomes this 
evil in the Capricom chart. 


In the Sagittarius chart, however, any natural evil of the Rahu - Ketu axis 
would be transformed by dint of the fact that Ketu sits in the pious house of 
religion, by the fact that Ketu is with a strong Jupiter, who is the karaka of 
religion and spiritual understanding (Jupiter is Brihaspati), and because Ketu 
sits with the lord of the house of religion, the satvic Sun. 


Ketu would not only reflect the piety of this ninth house situation in the 
Sagittarius chart, but would reflect and intensify the force and power of that 
house and its occupants, and give success in his period. I say this because it 
is the nature of both Rahu and Ketu to reflect the results of the planet in 
whose sign they are placed. They are, to a large degree, chameleons in this 
respect. They soak up and intensify the indications around them. Remember 


the story from the Puranas about Rahu? Although he was not one of them, 
he went to the assembly house of the gods to drink their nectar. He 
disguised himself as one of the gods in order to do this. In other words, he 
reflected his surroundings. In predictive astrology also, Rahu and Ketu act 
like the planets with which they are associated and reflect the indications of 
their sign lord. So in the Sagittarius chart, it is only natural and consonant 
with general astrological principles for Ketu to reflect and intensify the great 
success and piety of the raj yoga which Ketu sits next to. It is Ketu who 
would be overwhelmed by and reflective of the strong planets around him. 
In the Capricorn chart, Ketu would only reflect and intensify the negative 
indications of the evil eighth house. 


Ketu’s encompassing reflection would give results over and above those 
given in the major Jupiter period (in the Sagittarius chart ). The major Jupiter 
period took place in the 1920s, but Bhaktivedanta Swami didn’t have such 
success along spiritual lines back then. In other words, what Ketu did was to 
synthesize and reflect the combined effects of Jupiter and the Sun in a 
synergistic way. This is typical of the nature of Rahu and Ketu and requires 
no great stretch of the imagination on the part of any astrologer; we are used 
to seeing planets manifest their results through Rahu and Ketu. In the 
Capricorn chart, however, everything requires a bit of stretching. A much 
more tenable and natural interpretation results from the Sagittarius chart. 


Finally, there is the question of a sister. In the Capricorn chart Mars, a 
masculine planet, aspects the eleventh house of older siblings. The exalted 
Moon, who sits with Mars, does also. Three masculine planets, the Sun, 
Jupiter and Ketu, square the house. There is no limiting effect such as the 
influence of Rahu or Saturn, or any overwhelming effect from the lord of an 
evil house. As such, the house affairs should flourish. Since the lord of the 
house aspects it, along with the exalted Moon, the existence of at least a few 
older siblings is indicated. Also, since the aspecting lord is a masculine 
planet, at least one male sibling is indicated. The opposite was the case- 
Bhaktivedanta Swami had one older sibling, and a female at that- his sister 
Pishima. 


From Sagittarius as ascendant, we have congruency. The lord of the house 
of older siblings occupies a quadrant house, in a feminine sign, with a 
feminine planet, and here we are referring to Venus. (Debility is cancelled) 


The house itself is occupied by Saturn, a gender-neutral planet, in exaltation. 
Saturn’s influence also accounts for the limited number of older siblings, 1.e., 
one, and allows for her female gender, too. 


In fact, with Sagittartus as ascendant, we have all-round congruency. The 
fact that the native distributed millions of books, became a world-famous 
religious leader who commanded much wealth during the Ketu period, 
along with the fact that he had an older sister, all go to indicate that only 
Sagittarius could be the ascendant. It is surprising that several members of 
the astrological community in good standing have accepted that Capricorn 
was the true rising sign, though. 


Hopefully, Bhaktivedanta Swami’s horoscope is a good example of how the 
different component parts of Vedic astrology come together in confirmation 
of his life events. The thoughtful student will gain from studying it as it 
contains interesting combinations, such as the one found in the ninth house. 


About the Author 


Dean Dominic De Lucia was born in Bethesda, Maryland, in 1956. He 
studied Business Administration at the University of Baltimore, and later on 
completed a two-year course in translating at the Catholic University in Sao 
Paulo, Brazil, where he currently resides. 


He has maintained a life-long interest in Indian/Hindu philosophy and 
spiritual practices, which ultimately led him to take up Vedic astrology. He 
began his studies of the same in 1981 under Nalini Kanta Das/Tom Hopke, 
and has been a rather constant student and practitioner of the art ever since. 
His articles were published quite a few times in the older The Astrological 
Magazine, as well as in the newer follow-on magazine, Modern Astrology, 
published in Banglore. 


Dean maintains a unique perspective throughout the book, one of presenting 
pure Vedic astrology in its original form, as it was before the times of the 
Muslim invaders, and without hodge-podging it with other systems. This is 
rare among Hindu writers on Vedic astrology, and practically unheard of 
from a western writer on the subject. 


At the present time, Dean organizes classes on Vedic astrology in Sao 
Paulo, Brazil, where Astro Vedica was translated and published as the first 
book on the subject in the Portuguese language. 


