ASTRO SECRETS 


! 


2E=F<B5A HEG=D58<8<5G= 


PART III 


Edited by 
K. SUBRAMANIAM 
S/o. Sothida Mannan, Jyotish Marthand 
Late Prof.K.S. KRISHNAMURTI 


—_ =—_ = = = = = = 
OMNDAARWHD 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 
26. 
27. 


—_ — 
SSGPONATDARON A 


CONTENTS 


. CorrectTime of Birth 

. The Quintensence of the Superior 

. Realisation of Amount Lent 

. Love Marriage through: Horary & KP. Sub. Lord theory 


Cuspal Sublords and their impact on Dasa Effects 
Principle of Sublords and Relevant Houses 
Astrology : Traditional and K.P. 

Retrieving Lands from Tenant 

On Buying a Vehicle 


. Theft Articles Revealed through K.P. 
. Child Birth and the wonderful behaviour of Sub 
. How the Ruling Planets work? 


On Foreign travel 


. K.P- A unique predictive method 

. Free from Debts 

. Change in job 

. Marriage time correctly Analysed by K.P. 


K.P. Deeper Predictive System 


Marriage & Marital life : A Scientific Approach through 


StellarAstrology 
K.P. Serves the Astrologers for calculating 
the party Arrival & Reveals male or female 
Will sarguna help me financially? 
K.P. Theory saves from the clutches of false 
interpretation of 7% Sani 
When can | expand mysteel furniture business? 
Fact or Fiction? Significance of third house cusp 
Planet and Heart Diseases 
Friends Arrival: K.P. Gives the clue 
Horary Astrology: Its use in predicting minor events 


103 
107 


111 


118 
121 


125 
128 
130 
131 

140 
142 


41. 
42. 


K.P. Explains Death 

K.R's miracle in diagnosing diseases 

K.P. Birth Time Rectification 
TheBusinessman&HisPlanets 

On Reading a Natal Chart 

"Oh, what a hatred on K.P." 
. Proposed Business Venture is not suitable for you 
K.P. and Business 
Negotiation for Accommodation 
. Guruji's Guidance 
. Aspects! Their computation and modus operandi 
Cuspal sublord speaks 
. Timings of events by Ruling Planets - 
A Research Study 

Fortune in New Business 


Marriages are made in Heaven??? 


146 
151 
160 
164 
180 
185 
188 
191 
198 
201 
205 
250 


253 
266 
270 


CORRECT TIME OF BIRTH 


BY K.S.K. 


"Sir, a friend of mine wants to know his birth time correctly. 
He knows that he was born in the early morning hours within an 
hour before or after Sunrise at his place 1NN°.18' South and 36°.52 
East." 


K.S.K. : "What did you do?" 


New Student - "| worked out by Hindu system and | had 
many alternatives. | did pre - natal Epoch. | had a time before 
sunrise and another after sunrise. There is the alternative. 


K.S.K. :" You apply my method. That is, you take the 
ruling planets at the moment of judgment. They are the lord 
of the constellation where lagna falls: the lord of the constell 
ation occupied by Moon ; the lord of the sign in which Moon 
is deposited and the lord of the day." 


N.St: "Am | to find out the exact position of lagna?" 
K.S.K.: "Yes. What is the time now?" 
N.St: “I dial 174" 


K.S.K. : "You reject the number of seconds which they give, 
but take the time in minutes only as we have spent a few seconds." 


N. St :"Yes Sir. It is 11-45 am. I1.S.T. The latitude of 
our place is 13 N. To-day it is Sunday 29-6-69. Hence the 
Nirayana lagna falls in Uthrapalguni star governed by Sun." 


K.S.K. : "In which sign the lagna is?" 


N. St.: "In Virgo , Sir. But we have to take Kethu in place of 
Mercury as the lord of the sign as Kethu is now in the sign of 
Mercury." 


K.S.K. : "Yes, proceed." 


N.St.: 'To-day Sunday is ruled by Sun. Moon is in Moola 
governed by Kethu. Moon is in Sagittarius owned by Jupiter." 


K.S.K. : "Therefore what are the ruling planets?" 

N.St.: "Kethu, Sun, Kethu, Jupiter." 

K.S.K. : "What is his date of birth?" 

N.St.: "3-12-1928." 

K.S.K.: "Where was the Moon?" 

N.St.: “Makam star, in the Leo Sign. Sun Sign Kethu Star." 


K.S.K.: "Name out the ruling planets. Find out whether 
these two are there. Then note down which is left out." 


N.St.: "Kethu. sun, Kethu, Jupiter. Moon was in Sun sign 
Kethu star. That which are left out are Jupiter and strong Kethu 
which appeared more than once." 


K.S.K.: "Now note the range of the lagna which could have 
risen in the East from an hour before Sunrise to an hour after 
Sunrise." 


N.St.: "It should be about 15 before and after Sun. Sun on 
3-12-1928 was in about 18. Therefore the lagna must be between 3 
Scorpio and 3 Sagittarius." 


K.S.K.: "Scorpio was owned by mars. It is nota ruling planet. 
Reject it outright. Before Sunrise he is not born. Take Saggitarius. 
It is owned by Jupiter. Within 3, we have the constellation of 
Ketu. As Ketu repeated in the ruling planets, take Kethu sub, and 
Sun sub sub. Work out." 


N.St.:"Then it should be O 10' Sagittarius Nirayana. 
Krishnamurti Ayanamsa being 22 45, the Sayana ascendant 
should be 22 55' in Sagittarius." ° 


K.S.K. : "Proceed." 


N.St.: "As we have to calculate for 10°18' South latitude, 0° 
10' Sagittarius Nirayana 22 55' Sayana Sagittarius. Sir, as it will 
occupy much space here, | shall give the answer. In the next issue 


we Can give, how to find out sidereal time from the position 


of ascendant to South Latitudes." 
K.S.K. : "Alright" 
N.St.: "It will be 6-47 a.m. L.M.T at 36 52' E." 


K.S.K. : "What is the standard time." 


Ur 10-46 V 2-11 Vi 2-15 Ps pe 
E Jup. 8-34 Rahu 7-3 ars 13- 
ee is VII 28-11 
IX 28-11 
Moon 6-33 
Ill 28-11 sieotece 
Fort 18-44 
Sat 27-34 
I 28-11 Sun 17-29 
Ven 26-34 Mer 9-35 XI 2-11 X 0-11 
Asc 0-10 Kethu 7-3 
XI 215 


N.St.: "In East Africa, They use East African standard time, 
abbreviated as EAST. It is fixed for 45 E., i.e., 3 hours over 
Greenwich meantime and 21/2 hrs less |.S.T. Therefore 6-47 a.m. 


L.M.T. = 7-19-32 a.m. EAST." 


K.S.K.: "Come on. Make out the map. Let us verify by facts 


applying K.P" 


N.St.: "Here it is. 


"Kethu Dasa balance 3 years 3 months 22 days. (Now enters a 
young gentleman to consult.) | know that it is God-sent. So | took his 
horoscope. It is casted by himself. He is Mr.G. Ananada Rao, M.A. 
Research Scholar in Andhra University at Visakapatnam. Born on 
13-6-1938 at 18 17'N 83 57'E at 10-33 a.m. LM.T. He has studied 
thoroughly Krishnamurti Padhdhati. | took his chart and gave him 
time to meet me later." 


His chart is as follows:- 


Kethu 2-40 
Sat. 23-17 IX 7-21 X 8-21 XI 8-38 
Vill 6-21 Ura 22-57 Merc 17-8 Mars 11-11 
Sun 28-37 
Fortuna 10-16 
Jup 914 Se 
VII 7-55 5 
Asc 7-55 
VB Nept 25-31 
V 8-38 IV 8-21 
Moon 0-58 Rahu 2-40 Il 7-21 Il 6-21 


N.St.: "What for, you have called him in and took his chart, Sir?" 


K.S.K.: "Ruling plants reveal the position of lagna or that 
of Moon or the position of any planet in doubt or the position 
the Cusp in question or the significators of the matter in 
question. So ruling planets reveal that whatever, whichever you w 
ant, either any planet or cusp position." 


“Further people having same ruling planets at the moment 
of birth will come together to such an astrologer, who is honest, 
who is sincerely devoted to God, who does not speak ill of others 
due to his jealousy caused by incapability, who works hard with 
open mind. It is tip from nature." 


"Look, what are this person's ruling planets, Sun, Kethu, 
Guru, kethu. Do not they agree in full with the gentleman who 
wants the correct time of birth." 


N.St.: "Sir, thanks very much. Shall we proceed to the original 


chart and verify." 
K.S.K. : "Yes what is his date of marriage?" 
N.St.: "3-5-51 .please.” 


K.S.K.: "How to Judge and find out the time of marriage." 


N.St.:" Houses 2, 7 and 11 are to be taken. Significators are 
to be found out. When we get alternate dates, we should 
reject those dates when transit does not agree. We should fix 
the date when transit agrees." 


"Second house is vacant. It is owned by Jupiter.No planet 
is in Jupiter's star. No node is in Jupiter's sign. Hence 
Jupiter is a significator." 


Seventh house is occupied by Mars. No planet is in its star. 
Kethu will act as an agent of Mars in 7. 


Eleventh house is unoccupied. It is owned by Venus. Venus 
alone is in its star. Rahu represents Venus as it is in Venus sign. 


Therefore Jupiter, Venus, Kethu and Rahu are the strongest 
significators. 


At the time of his birth, he was running Kethu Dasa for 
3 years 6 months and 22 days. 


So Sukra Dasa operated between 25 - 6-32 to 26-6-1952. 
Kethu Bhukti was between 25-4-51 to 25-6-52. So during Kethu 
Anthra itself he got married immediately after Kethu Bhukti started. 
Kethu is very Strong to give 7th house results as it acts as 
an agent of Mars in 7 and is conjoined with Mercury owner of 7. 


By transit, Sun was in Mars sign Venus star Rahu sub; Venus, " 
Dasanatha in Venus sign Mars star Jupiter sub and Kethu in 
Jupiter star, lord of 2: Moon in Mercury star, lord of 7. Mars in 
Venus star, lord of 11. Thus the significator were in great 
advantageous position." 


K.S.K. : "Good" 


N.St.:" Sir, his son died on 2-10-68. Atthattime he had been 
running Mars Dasa Mars Bhukti Kethu Anthra." 


K.S.K. : 'Take the 5th house of this chart as the first house 
representing his son. Then calculate. Ascertain the date of death 
taking Bhadka and Marakasthanams." 


N.St.:" As the Ascendant is in Saggitarius 0-10" and the chart 
belongs to one born in Nairobi, the 5th house will be from 2 
11 ‘Aries to 2 15' Taurus. As the Cusp is in Aries, it is a movable 
sign and hence, bhadakasthana is Aquarius and no planet is 
in the 11* counted from Aries, houses 2 and 7 are Marakastan 
as. Rahu alone is found. Mars is in Rahu star. 11 house is 
owned bySaturn. Mercury and Kethu are in its star. hence Mars, 
Mercury and Kethu are evil. Then boy died - When mars Dasa M 
ars Bhukti Kethu Anthra operated. This agrees most satisfactorily." 

GOOD LUCK 


THE QUINTESSENCE OF THE SUPERIOR 


The late Guruji Krishnamurti was astonished to find how any st 
ate of his tribe could, with so much of literature and 
accoutrement at his command, give prediction, which tothe 
utter dismay of the consultant, proved incongruous to the 
results actually experienced. After deep contemplation, he was 
led to conclude that there was some missing link 
. It is to fill this acuum, that Prof. K.S.K. laboured for long years, 
carrying on research. His love of labour was rewarded by the 
grace of God and the Scientific system of astrology, Krishn 
amurti Padhdhati, based on the Stellar position of the planets, 
which is now gaining momentum, spontaneously unfolded itself. 
Another outstanding contribution is the discovery of the Ruling 
Planets, which serve as a master - key. This was inspired by 
the Hora Sastra of the star astrologer Varahamihira, who w 
as renowned for his dexterity in the art 
. The principle of the Ruling Planets was perfected after a good de 
al of experiments, and without the least effort we are 
now enjoying the fruits of others pains. 


Now, | shall give you an idea ofthe foundation on which the 
edifice of Krishnamurti Padhdhati was built on firm line and 
nurtured by his worthy disciples for the posterity to follow. 


A Planet tenanting a nakshatra affects the matters of the house 
occupied by the nakshatra lord and the houses owned by him. While 
the results of the house occupied by the constellation lord are fully 
brought out, those of the houses owned by the constellation lord 
and the results of the vacant houses are also affected. If any of the 
houses is occupied by another planet, the tenant Planet act only 
partly through the house are also affected. 

If any of the houses is occupied by another planet, the tenant planet 
act only partly through the house occupied by another 


planet, because any other planet in the constellation of 
the occupant will be stronger to affect the results of that house. For 
example, Mars in the constellation of Venus in 9 of Gemini 
ascendant, the 12th house Taurus being occupied by Kethu and 5th 
house Libra remaining vacant. Now. Mars will act fully through 
houses 5 and 9 where as Mars will act partly through the 12th 
house. (9 occupied by Venus and 5 unoccupied but owned by 
Venus. Any other planet in the constellation of Kethu will be 
stronger than Mars to offer the results of the 12th House. 


The occupant of a house will move the matters of the house it 
occupies, apart from the result it has to offer due to its 
constellational position, that is to say,’ the affairs of the house owned 
and occupied by the nakshatra lord, if there is no planet in any of its 
constellation. In the above example if there is no planet in the 
constellation of Mars, Mars will influence the affairs of the house it 
occupies in addition to the matters it has the role to affect because 
of its position in the constellation of Venus. 


The lord of a house will attain the status of a strong siginificator 
only if the house owned by is vacant and there is no planet in its 
constellation 


Whether or not such results as are indicated by the tenant 
planet, which is known as the "significator",will come to pass, 
depends on the "SUB" portion of the constellation occupied by 
the tenant planet. Again, if the lord of the sub occupied by the 
tenant planet is favourably connected by occupation § or 
lordship or constellation to the matters signified by the 
constellation lord of the tenant planet fulfils the matters of which it is 
the significator due to is constellational position. If the tenant planet 
is placed in the sub of a planet who occupies or owns houses 
detrimental to the affairs of the constellation lord according to its 
occupation and lordship, the matter is not fulfilled. The sub-lord 
signifying a house which is 12th to the house denoted by the 
constellation lord proves harmful. The sublord should not be _ in 
unfavourable aspect of the cusp of the house signified by the 
nakshatra lord. 


The aspects are to be computed by reckoning the distance in 
terms of longitude. 


The term "Sub" needs explanation to understand it in its right 
perspective. You may all be aware that the arc or extent of star 
(nakashatra) is 13°20'.This is divided into nine parts, not uniformly of 
each as is done for establishing the Navamsa position of planets, 
but are divided in the unequal proportion of the dasa years alloted to 
each planet in the Vimshottari system of 120 years. Each such part 
is known as the "Sub" contracted form of sub- division. It is also 
known as upanakshatra or nakshatra navamsa. The first sub in a 
constellation or nakshatra zone is named after the lord of the 
constellation itself and the others follow in the same cyclic order as 
obtaining in vimshothari Dasa system, namely, Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Kethu and Venus. That is, in Jupiter 
star the first sub will be that of Jupiter, the second sub that of 
Saturn, the third one will be that of Mercury etc. till the cycle of nine 
planets is completed. In other words, if the constellation is akin to 
‘dasa’, the bhukthi is akin to "sub" and the anthra is "inter" or "sub- 
sub" that is all. 


The occupant of a house offers the results of the house 
occupied through the house owned and its nature. If the owner of 
house is not in 6, 8 or 12 from what it owns, the results of the house 
will be experienced as normally indicated, but if it occupies a 
position which is in 6, 8 or 12 to the one it owns.it will give results 
contrary to those indicated. 


The third house denotes brother, writing, agency etc. and the 
11th house denotes profit or gain. Therefore the lord of the 3rd in 11 
will give you gain or profit through bother, agency or writing. If 
Saturn, Lord of 3 is in 11, brother will help you. As saturn is 
restrictive in nature, the brother will be economical or calculative. If 
the Lord of 3 in 11 is Mars .the help will be surprising or sudden and 
the brother will be thoughtlessly extravagant, which is the nature of 
Mars. For those born in Libra, Saturn is Lord of 4 and 5. If Saturn 
occupies Leo, the 8th sign to Capricorn, the matters 


signified by the fourth house, Capricorn, will suffer, but not the 
signification's of the 5th house Aquarius, where the fifth cusp falls. In 
short, the nature of result depends on the Lord of the constellation, 
gain or loss is shown by occupation or Lord ship, and karakathawa 
will show the source. The extent of the result will depend on the 
positional strength of the planet, namely Ucha, Vargotham, own 
house, friend's sign, enemy's sign and neechathwa. Although a 
planet by itself is in neecha , if it is in the constellation of a planet in 
ucha, the tenant planet will offer exceedingly brilliant result. 


How the sub-Lord acts favourably or disallows a planet to 
affect the matters signified by it, is illustrated below: 


Mars is Lord of 4 and 11 to those born in Makara lagna and 
planets in the constellation of Mars should otter brilliant result 
because the 11th house is always of success and fulfillment of 
desire. If planet is in chitra nakshatra in the sub of Saturn, the planet 
in the constellation of Mars will surely show gain and the native will 
be happy because there will be neither delay nor disappointment, 
since Saturn is the Lord of lagna and the 2nd House. Again, if the 
same planet be in the star of Mars but in the sub of Jupiter, although 
it is in the sway of Mars who rules house 4 and 11, yet it will bring 
loss, cause failure in attempts, disappointment and cause separation 
because the sub-Lord Jupiter, though a natural benefic, governs the 
matters of the I2th house.This will be so, unless Jupiter goes to a 
favourable house and tenants a favourable planet's nakshatra 


A planet, in Krishnamurthy Padhdhati terminology, becomes 
a malefic or benific not in consideration of its nature, but solely 
by reason of its owning beneficient or malevolent house or 
occupying them. Neither is Jupiter a benefic to one and all, 
nor Saturn a malefic to every one. 


Jupiter, apart from being Puthra Karaka, is Lord of 2 and 5, 
signifying birth of children, to those born in Vrischika lagna. If a 


planet tenanting the constellation of Jupiter is in the sub of Lord of 
11 .the native begets a child. But if the planet in the constellation of 
Jupiter is in the sub of Lord of 12, no child will be born in the period 
of the planet in the sub governed by Lord of 12. The 12th stands as 
the 8th, evil from the 5th. 


Again, suppose for Vrischika Lagna, Jupiter Lord of 2 and 5is 
in 9 in Cancer in Saturn's star and Saturn is in 2nd house, Saturn 
owns houses 3 and 4. Jupiter has to offer the results of 2nd house 
occupied by Saturn, apart from houses 3 and 4. The second house 
shows self-acquisition, bank position and finance. Jupiter is the 
greater benefic and expansive in character. To know whether 
Jupiter will improve or cause detrimental of bank position, look to his 
sub-Lord. It is Venus who is in the 8lh house as ruler of houses 7 
and 12. So Venus, the sub-Lord, is connected to 12 and as such is 
detrimental. Therefore, loss or expenses will be the result and 
hence Jupiter will cause deterioration of financial position in his 
dasa, even though it is exalted. Through which source or matters 
such loss is incurred, is shown by Jupiter by his lordship and nature 
and by the sub-Lord Venus. The second house denotes family, and 
the 5th house refers to children, love affairs, speculation etc. Venus 
is the karaka for transport, music, women etc. through one of these 
sources, loss will result. 


Whether a house or planet is benefical or malefic, depends on 
the matter that has come up for consideration. Benefics are those 
which allow the native to enjoy and malefics are those that cause 
frustrated ambition. To go overseas significators of houses 3, 9 and 
12 are beneficial; for death, bhadaka and maraka are beneficial or 
conducive; for marriage houses 2,7,11 are beneficial; for divorce, 
significators of 6,10,12 and 8 are beneficial. Therefore, no house or 
planet is wholly good or wholly bad. The 6th house is said to be 
"Upachayasthan™ or improving house, for draw-out of loan or 
overdraft, yes, but unfavourable from the point of health or of 
matrimonial relations. 


11 


Now | shall proceed to describe in the following paragraphs, 
the general principles of judgment according to Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati. 


Just as planet occupying a particular degree and minute of the 
zodiac governed by a sign Lord, constellation Lord and sub Lord, so 
also the cusp of the figure of the heavens at a given moment are 
governed by sign, constellation and sub lords in accordance with 
the degree rising on the cusps of the houses. A table of subs can be 
had in any of the K.R text books. Supposing Moon or the cusp of a 
house is at 21 degrees Cancer. The sign Lord is Moon constellation 
Lord Mercury, and sublord, Venus. The Sub - Lord is the deciding 
factor in all cases. 


For answering a query, a group of houses is considered, of 
which one of the houses is the principal house and its Sub 
Lord is the deciding factor. A few subject matters are mentioned 
below, with relevant houses and the principal Sub lords. 


Marriage : Houses 2,7,11 / Sub of 7th cusp. 
Longevity : Bhadaka and Maraka sthanas / Sub of lagna. 
. Employment : Houses 2,6 ,10/ Sub of 10" cusp. 
Promotion : Houses 2,6,11 / Sub of 10 and 6. 


. Overdraft: Houses 2,6,10/ Sub of 6. 
. Child birth : Houses 2,5,11 / Sub of 5th cusp. 


. Discharge from hospital :Houses 2,4,11 /Sub of the 
4th cusp. 


9. Reunion with husband : houses 2,7,11 / Sub of 11th cusp. 


1. 
2 
3 
4 
5. Construction of house : Houses 4,11,12 / Sub of 4th cusp. 
6 
7 
8 


10. Lottery : Houses 3,8,11 /Sub of 34 cusp (but timings is 
shown by significators of houses 2,6,11. 


11- Disposal of immovable property : Houses 3,5,10/ 
Sub of 10th cusp. 


12. Getting a tenant: Houses 4,6,11 /Sub of 11. 


12 


13. Foreign trip : Houses 3,9,12/ Sub of 12Ih cusp. 

14. Recovery of property lost: Houses 2,6,11 / Sub of 11th cusp. 
15. Return of missing person : Houses2.4,6.11 /Sub of 11th cusp. 
16. Getting a telephone : Houses 3.9,11 / Sub of 3rd cusp. 


REALISATION OF AMOUNT LENT 


The Gentleman asked , when will | get back the amount lent 
to Mr.X and gave the number 133. 


The cusps for the given number are as follows: 


House Longitude Sign 

X 12 10' Cancer 

Xl 14 10' Leo 

Xxil 14 10' Virgo 

I 1233' Libra 

I 11 57' Scorpio 

i 11 10' Saggitarius 


The planetary positions for the time of working i.e., 1-30pm 
on 28-9-70, is given in the chart:- 


Dasa Bhukti Periods: 
Dasa Bhukti Antara Sukshma from to 


Venus 10-7-86 

Venus Sun Kethu 19-8-70 10-9-70 

Venus Sun Venus Venus 10-9-70 20-9-70 

Venus Sun Venus Sun 20-9-70 23-9-70 

Venus Sun Venus Moon 23-9-70 28-9-70 

Venus Sun Venus Mars 28-9-70 1-10-70 
Analysis: 


According to Prof. K.S.Krishnamurti, Il house must be taken into 
consideration for all money matters including loans (please refer 
page No.324 in Vol.I.K.P.) and XI house represents the Principal and 
interest of the Loan given (refer Page 364 Vol.| K.P). XI house also 
refer to fulfillment of desires. Hence the houses to 


be considered to find out when will the amount lent, be returned, 
are Il and XI. 


VI 14° 10' VIP 12°33" | vill 14°57" IX 11° 10' 
Sat 28° 48' 
V 14° 10' X 12° 10' 
Rahu 7° 38° Rasi Chart 
for the moment 
Kethu 7“ 38’ 
X114° 10’ 
IV 12° 10' Moon 16° 32' 
Mars 22° 38' 
Mer. 23° 37' 


112° 33' Sun 11° 27' 
Ven. 23° 43' XII 14° 10° 
Jul. 14°20' 


Il. 11° 10 11 114° 57' 


First of all find out whether the amount will be realised at all. 
The amount will be realised if there is any connection between 
Sub-lord of the XI, cusp and the concerned houses II and XI. In 
this case the XI Cusp falls in leo sign, Venus star, Venus Sub. 
That is, the Sub-Lord of XI is Venus. 


Significators: 


Il Houses :- No planet occupies the Il Houses, the Lord 
of the Ilnd House is Mars. No planet is situated in its stars. 
Hence the significator of the Il nd house is Mars. 


XI Houses : - There are 4 planets in the XI house viz: Moon, 
Mars, Mercury and sun. Saturn and Sun are in the stars of Sun 
and Moon respectively. None is in the stars of either Mars or 
Mercury, XI house is owned by Sun and as seen above only 
Saturn is in its Stars. 


Venus and Jupiter are aspected by Saturn, a significator 
Hence take Venus and Jupiter also. Ketu and Rahu represent 
Sun and Saturn who are both significators. Take Ketu and Rahu’. 
also. 


Hence the significators for the matter being considered are - 
All the Nine Planets 


To arrive at the final list, compare with the ruling planets and 
select the common ones. At the time of Judgement i.e., at 1-30 
pm on 28-9-70, the ruling planets were as follows - 


Day Lord Moon 
Moon Sign Lord Sun 

Moon Star Lord Venus 
Moon Sub Lord Mars 
Lagna Jupiter 
Sign Venus Star 


Hence the final list of the planets to give the desired result 
are Venus, Sun, Mars, Moon and Jupiter. 


Judgement:- 


Since the XI cusp sub-lord is Venus, which is connected with the 
significators ( Moon, Mars, and Mercury are all in the Star of Venus) 
of the houses II and XI and also since the Dasa, Bhukti, and Anthra 
Lord are all significators for the matter the amount lent will 
certainly be realised in the present anthra in Venus Dasa, Sun 
Bhukti Venus Anthra itself. 


WHEN? 
It will be when the planets of the final list conjointly function. 


In Venus Anthra, Moon Suksharrta was just over on 28-9-70, and 
Mars Sukshama is a strong significator, the event must happen in its 
Sukshama itself. As Mars sukhshama ended on 1- 


16 


"10-70, the amount should be realised between 28-9-70 and 1 
10-70. 


To pin point the date, | turned to transit. It can be seen from 
Krishnamurti Ephemeris, that Moon was transiting in Virgo sign Kuja 
Star on Thursday the 1st October 1970. Hence | decided that the 
amount will be realised on Thursday the 1st October 1970, in the 
evening when Moon will be transiting in Mercury sign (Virgo Kuja 
Star (Chitra) Rahu Sub, since Rahu represents Mars. 


The amount was actually returned to the lender at 6-10 
pm on 1-10-70 as predicted. 


GOOD LUCK 


LOVE MARRIAGE THROUGH : 
HORARY & K.P. SUB LORD THEORY 


On 14-11-1993, Mr.G.N.R. came to my chamber for 
consultation, who is an Employee in Doordarshan at Jagdalpur, but 
native of Jeypore, he wanted to know whether, he can marry the Girl 
with whom he had love affairs and also informed that his parents are 
opposing the proposal, as she belongs to another caste. This is his 
problem. 


| asked him to mention a number between 1 to 249 for Horary 
Analysis. He has given No.7 and | made judgement on the same 
day at 10-40-0 am at Jeypore 18-50N, 82-38 E. 


After completion of my analysis and judgement, | have 
informed him that he will surely marry the girl with whom he got 
affair and the marriage will take place only after 18 months and 
there will be delay and disappointment for materialisation of 
the event, but the marriage will take place without fail. 


But, the consultant did not fully believe my prediction, as he 
had no hope that the marriage will materialise, due to strong 
opposition of his parents. Any way he was glad that he got 
positive reply and left my chamber with happy mood. So, saying 
let us see what will happen? 


In the month of July, 1995, the Gentleman came to me with a 
smiling face and informed me that his marriage taken place in 
the month of May , 1995 and he was happy that my prediction 
came true. 


Now, | am placing the Horary chart before readers, how | 
have analysed the question through Horary Astrology with Sub 
Lord theory of Krishnamurthy Padhdhathi. 


Analysis and Judgement: 


18 


The Moon is the indicator of mind, whatever question one may 
ask, the Moon should connect with the houses, which are under 
judgement, otherwise, we can take it for granted that the 
consultant has not asked the question with sincerity. In such cases 
the Astrologer need not proceed further to analyse the chart(which 
will lead to wrong analysis). This is advice of my Great Guru Sri 
Krishnamurti. 


Let us see whether the Moon is indicating the Question 
properly or not in this Chart. 


XI1 0-25-20 | Asc 7-33-20 Kethu Ill 4-26-20 
Fortuna 9-57-0 IV 29-25-20 
11 -25-20 Il 18-25-20 


Will my love affair will 
Saturn 0-13-0 meterialise into V 27-52-20 
marriage or not? 
Date of Judgement: 
14-11-93 
Time: 10-40 a.m. 
XI 27-52-20 Place : Jaypore 
18-50 N 82-38 E 


VII 18-25-20 ve mens 

5G. 212- VI 0-25-20 
X 29-25-20 | Mars 9-56-0 | Ven 42-450 
Ix 4-26-20 | Rahu 9-57-0} 1 7-33-20 
Moon 2-31-0 Jup. 7-10-0 


Cuspal Position Planetary Position & Signification 


Cusp Star Sub Planet Star Signf Sub Signf 
Kethu Jupiter Sun Jupiter 7,9.10,12 Venus  /7,1,8&2 
Moon Merc. Moon Jupt. 7,9,10,12,5 Rahu 11 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) Mars Venus Mars’ Saturn 11 Venus 7,1,8&2 
(4) Jupt. Sun Merc. Rahu 7,3.4.6 Merc. 7,3,4&6 
(5) 


Merc. Jupiter Jupiter Rahu 7,1.8 Rahu 11 


19 


(6) Sun Rahu Venus Rahu_ 7,1,8,2 Merc. —7,3,4,6 


(7) Rahu Rahu- Sat. Mars —1,7,8 Merc. 7,3,4 &6 
(8) Merc. Merc. Rahu_ Sat. 11 Venus 7,1,8&2 
(9) Kethu Moon Kethu = Sun 7 Venus 7,1,8&2 


(10) Sun Rahu 
(11) Mars — Jupt. 
(12) — Jupt. Moon 


Here Moon is Lord of V (Love affairs) in VII (Marriage) and 
marriage partner, aspecting Il nd house. This house indicated 
increase of family member through V (Love) VlIth(Marriage) and 
aspected by Saturn, Lord of XI (fulfillment of desire) associated with 
Mars, Lord of VII, tells difficulties, disappointments, Hindrances etc. 
Hence Moon is clearly indicating the Nature of Query. Therefore, 
the astrologer can proceed further to analyse the question. 


Is love marriage promising? This aspect we have to judge 
from the V house Sub Lord, if the Sub Lord of V cusp connected 
with 7th then only love marriage will take place, if it connected 
only with XI house, without VII then the matter will not end 
with marriage, but one will have a keep (Concubine) Illegal. 


Here in this chart, the Vth cup sub Lord is Jupiter who is 
occupant of VII the cusp and aspecting Saturn, Lord of Xl 
and associated with Venus ( a planet of Love) and also Lord 
of Il (Family) and Lord of VII (Legally married Partner). 
Hence, it is clear that the love affair will culminate into marriage. 


At the same time, we have to see the signification of VII cusp 
sub Lord, who should have connection with V(Love). Then only it will 
doubly confirm the marriage (VII) with (V Lover). The sub Lord of VII 
cusp is Rahu who is conjoined with Moon, Lord of V (Love) in VII 
(Marriage) in the Star of Saturn,Lord of XI (fulfillment of wishes and 
desires). Hence, it is doubly confirmed that the V and VII cusp sub 
Lords are fully connected with the houses of 


20 


2,7,5,11 which are the main houses for (Love Marriage). As such 
we can come to a conclusion that the Love Marriage will take 
place under any circumstances. 


(4) There is another School of thought in K.P" 


Will the marriage take place between A and B? suppose this 
question put by the consultant, we can say that the marriage will 
surely take place between them and there will be no 
disappointment, if the Lagna that raises according to the number 
given by the consultant between (1 to 249) if Moon posited at the 
time of query in any of the houses 3,5,7,10 and 11 and it receives 
beneficial aspect form Jupiter. Then the marriage will take place, 
if Jupiter retrogrades, it will fall through, if Saturn aspects after some 
delay the marriage will be fixed. 


With the above Guidelines, we will see what it is signifying the 
Moon is in Il to Jupiter and deposited in Jupiter Star, such Jupiter is 
on VII cusp. Hence Moon is fully connected with Jupiter and within 
25 from Jupiter and is not in retrograde and such Moon is Lord of V 
(love) in VII (Marriage). Therefore it is clear that the marriage will 
take place but here one more thing to be observed that Moon is 
aspected by Saturn whenever there is any connection between 
Saturn and Moon it will form "PUNARPPU DOSHA". Hence there is 
Punarpu Dosha_ strong that indicates troubles, hindrances , 
disappointments delay are the results. The Saturn being Lord of XI 
fulfillment of wishes is aspecting Moon , Lord of V (Love) in VII 
(Marriage) that means the fructification of marriage event will be 
delayed and there will be lot of problems, disappointment etc will be 
faced but finally matter will be materialised. 


Timing ofevents: 

At present Jupiter dasa, Rahu bukti is going on which will end on 
7-11-1994, if Rahu is strong enough to give marriage, then in Rahus period, it 
will materialise. Now let us judge Rahu, Rahu is no doubt is a significator of 
marriage but Rahu is in the 


21 


star of delayed Saturn and combust with mars, lord of 1st and VII 
and also sub lord of 6,10 and 7ih houses. The 1,6,10 and 8th 
houses are net favorable for materialisation of Marriage and 
moreover Saturn is with full strength in his MoolaTrikona, sign 
aspecting Rahu and Moon. Therefore , Rahu cannot give marriage 
in his Bhukti period. Another important thing whenever Saturn 
comes to picture, he will not allow other planets to give the results. 
He will make delay upto his dasa bukti or antara periods. 


Therefore after considering the strength of Saturn | fixed the 
event will be materialised only in Saturn dasa. Saturn bhukti mercury 
antara between 28-4-1995 to 1-9-1995 by that time the transit of 
Saturn will be in Jupiter star and Jupiter transit will be in Saturn star 
and sun transit will be in Venus star around 2'ld week of May 1995. 


| am concluding this articles with Pranams to Lord 
Mahaganapathv and my _ beloved Gurujee Professor 
K.S. Krishnamurti who invented the Sub Lord theory. 


GOOD LUCK~ 


CUSPAL SUBLORDS AND THEIR 
IMPACT ON DASA EFFECT 


(FOR KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI STUDENTS ONLY) 


The Late Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti was a great and generous 
soul, who by handing over to us the cuspal sub lord theory, a 
clear-cut technique of prediction, enabled us all to understand 
and assess the exact position of one's future and destiny. No 
sage of scholar had taught or even suggested such a method 
before the advent of our illustrious author of the scientific 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati system. | am happy and much obliged 
to the learned Editor of this illustrious magazine Astrology and 
Athrishta, who is doing yeoman service to the case of Astrology 
by helping the students of Krishnamurti Padhdhati to improve 
their knowledge through the magazine and also affording 
opportunities to the followers of the Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
system to present their ideas and interpretations. 


Readers might have understand by now that the division of 
a 'Nakashatra' into nine unequal sub-divisions and determining 
a planet's influence by its placement in such sub-division of a 
Nakshatra constitutes an important feature of the Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati technique. 


| am sure that the esteemed readers are also aware of the fact 
that a planet in a constellation, denotes the matters signified by the 
constellation lord, in terms of the houses occupied and 
houses owned by the constellation lord; and if the lord of the sub 
occupied by the tenant - planet is favourably connected to the 
matters signified by the constellation lord, the tenant planet fulfils the 
matters signified by the lord of the constellation. The tenant planet 
moves the matters governed by the houses denoted by the 
constellation lord, according to the latter's occupation and 
ownership, the tenant himself acting as the source through which 
the matters are moved. The source depends on what the tenanting 


23 


planet rules by lord-ship of houses as well as its own nature. The 
tenating planet's natural characteristics also play an equal part. 
So it is final in Krishnamurti Padhdhati that a planet is to give the 
result of the house occupied by its constellation lord. 


| need not reiterate that the Ruling Planets play a greater role 
in giving the final say in the selection of fruitful significators and 
to indicate the earliest opportunity of the fructification events. 


Of course, students are aware that the fruitful significators 
are selected with the help of the ruling planets, i.e. 


1. Lord of the week day, 

2. Lord of the sign tenanted by the moon 

3. Lord of the constellation in which moon is placed 

4. Lord of Lagna rising at the time of the commencement 
of the working 

5. Lord of the constellation on the cusp of the lagna. 

6. Nodes if connected to the signs of the ruling planets. 7 


. Sometimes, the sub-lords of the moon and lagna. 

With these matters in mind, let me discuss some intricate 
points which one comes across white assessing the strength of 
the planets and their limitations of matters that could be felt in 
the course of their Dasa periods, Bhukthis and Anthra periods, 
falling in tune with the strength of the cuspal sub lords, the cusp 
of which represents such matters. 


The timing of the event is being decided and the dasa, bhukthi 
and Anthra is revealed in accordance with the strength of the 
Ruling Planets. 


The problem is how to assess what exactly they (the planets) 
can do in their major period, sub period and sub-sub period and 
what are all the matters that cannot happen even when the star 


24 


lord signifies a particular house representing certain matters and 
so on. 


When a birth chart is presented to us, we simply say that a 
planet, say for instance Jupiter, is posited in the 2nd bhavam, in the 
star of Mars occupying 6th, owning houses 4 and 11. No planet is in 
the 11th bhavam - Jupiter's period is in progress. At once, one 
jumps to the conclusion that Jupiter period is a good one, as the 
same is well connected according to the Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
manner of recknoning, the 6th and 11th Upchayasthanas or 
improving houses (for material things) and further add that his 
service will be very good, with attractive promotion, and as Mars 
owns the 4th too, he will also own a house in this period in the 
bhukthi of a planet signifying 4, 9 and 12. Added to this, the lord of 
the major dasa in progress is a ruling planet also at the time of birth, 
as the lord of the Moon's sign and thus well fortified to bring about 
fortunate circumstances. (Students may well note that the dasa, 
Bhukthi and Anthra of the event are to be decided according to the 
strength of the Ruling Planets at birth, the Lagna constellation lord 
being the strongest and the day lord being the weakest. If the lord of 
the major period (Dasa) in progress is a Ruling Planet at birth, that 
dasa will give desired results. If a node represents these plants, the 
node also will act well and happy results can be expected in that 
period). 


All these positions do not bring about the results to the extent 
predicted. Then what is the answer? 


At this juncture only, Krishnamurti Padhdhati comes in handy 
as a predictive system. How? 


Here we have, to give more attention to the constellation of 
the birth chart. The Late Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti had unreservedly 
told us to interpret the message of the planets completely 
accepting the fundamentals in the ancient classical works but he 
had incorporated many other important features unknown hitherto 
such as delineating the planet's influence according to the star/ 


25 


sub lords house significations, etc. He also laid stress on finding out 
the twelve cuspal points of the horoscope according to the semi-arc 
(placidus system), correct to the degree and minute, for the latitude 
of the birth place. Also, according to him, the house is deemed to 
commence from the point in a sign where the cusp of that house 
falls, the space between the cusps of the1st house and the 2nd 
house being the extent of the 1st house. We have now an accurately 
computed "universal Tables of houses" available which gives the 
cusps of all the houses to the degree and minute of arc of longitude 
for all the angular / non-angular houses. Other tables of houses, 
including Raphael's which give the cusps of 11, 12, 2 and 3 only to 
the nearest degree are insufficient for precise work. 


The cusp of the houses are the 12 spokes of the horoscope 
wheel which distinguish one horoscope from another including 
those of twins or triplets born with a few minutes internal from 
each other. 


The cusps alone account for the marked differences and is thus 
the life wire in the birth chart. It has the capacity to limit what the 
bhava (house) signifies; how else can we explain the divergent 
results experienced by persons born at the same place and nearly 
the same time when the planetary positions and the dasa, bhukthi 
etc are nearly the same. 


If any planet occupies the 12th, we reach the conclusion that as 
the 12th is an evil one, such evil influence will be experienced in the 
period of that planet of course, here comes the dividing line between 
the traditional system and Krishnamurti Padhdhati. According to the 
latter system, the effects of the constellations lord by house 
occupation and ownership have to be reckoned and effects told in 
those terms only, but not blindly in terms of the 12th house wherein 
the planet is posited. 


Suppose, this planet in the 12th tenants the constellation 
of one situated in the 11th.Then the matters influenced by the 11th 


26 


are moved, through source of the tenanting planet, and we say that 
the period of the planet will be a good one and fine status will be 
predicted. To what extent is the question? This article is mainly 
aimed at proving the value of Krishnamurti-Padhdhati and cuspal 
sub lord theory and its accuracy. The consideration of the 12 sub 
lords of the birth chart and the correct significations of the 12 house 
sub lords show the extent to which the matters governed by the 11th 
house signified by the constellation tenanted by the planet will be 
moved. 


On the contrary, suppose a planet 'A' is in the 11th house but 
in the constellation of one in the 12th house or owning it. 


Here we Say at once, that the period will be bad and heavily 
expensive in terms of the signification and qualities of the 
constellation lord. To what extent is it bad and expensive? The late 
Prof K.S. Krishnamurti had given this cuspal sub lord theory only to 
assess how far the matters signified by the house denoted by the 
constellation lord are modified by the sub lord of that particular 
cuspal sub. Here we have to tell this in terms of the I2th cusp and its 
sub lord to what houses it is connected. If we approach this in a 
practical manner, in the period of a planet signifying 12th bhava, a 
native does not suffer or enjoy all those matters indicated by the I2th 
house, viz, heavy expenditure, seclusion, confinement, hidden or 
inimical activities, obstacles etc, and the virulence is also not at all 
felt. If the sub lord of the 12th cusp is well connected to the 
improving houses (i.e. I, Il, Ill, VI, X, XI) and more so to the 11th (the 
12th to the 12th) the density of bad effects will not be felt even in the 
dasa of the 12th house significator. 


Hence, first of all, before venturing prediction, we must assess 
the strength or weakness, of the sub lord of the 12th cusp to finally 
tell the density of the bad effects to be expected in the period of a 
planet signifying the 12th house fully. This is a boon we have got 
from the late Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti's technique. One need not 
expect to experience beneficial or harmful results 


27 


denoted by the 12m cusp morethan what is portrayed by the 
houses signified by the 12th cusp sub lord. 


If it signifies the 11th, there can be very little expenditure only, and 
the native will never have any of the malefic influences described by 
the house in his lifetime and also during the period of the planet 
signifying the 12th house. The very defects represented by the 12th 
will also turn to his advantage and bring luck through the matters of 
the XIl th house. For instance, the 12th rules separation, emigration 
to another country and so on, if the 12th sub lord signifies the 11th, 
it means one gains by migrating to another land and through all 
affairs of the 12th house. 


This idea can be well understood by the way our great Guruji had 
propounded this theory of Krishnamurti Padhdhati horary. 
Supposing one wanted to know as to when will his marriage come 
up. We look to the sub lord of the 7th cusp and if the same signifies 
the 12th to the 7th, namely the 6th, we finally say 'no marriage’. 
Even if the current period signifies 2,7 and 11 houses, marriage 
does not come up. This is what we have to apply in natal charts 
also. 


For instance, one runs the period of a planet signifying 7th fully, 
together with 2nd and 11th houses. A person consults you with his 
natal chart, regarding his marriage. You should not at once jump to 
the conclusion that he will be shortly getting married, as it is now 
the period of a significator of 7th along with that of 2nd and 11th. 


Let us discuss first, how it signifies 7th fully. This happens when the 
planet owns the 7th cusp or period of a planet in 7th having no 
planet in its stars; or may be found stationed in the star of a planet 
in 7th or deposited in its own star in 7th house. This status cannot 
bring out the marriage, which happens to be one of the major 
matters of the 7th bhavam. But in this period such other matters as 
signified by the 7th cusp sub lord only can happen. 


28 


If the 7th cusp sub lord signifies 6th and 10th, he will not at all 
get married, but will flourish very well in occupational position of life 
and if in any way connected to an earthy sign (Rishba, kanya or 
Makara) he will do well in business; if it signifies 2, 5 and 9, he will 
have no marriage at all, but will have more sexual affairs in that 
period and so on. And with such significations of the 7th cusp sub 
lord, these only can come to pass in the period of the significator of 
the 7th house. 


Another evil house is the 8th. It stands for accidents, criminal 
tendencies, over sexual nature and indulgence, fatal illness etc. Of 
these some will be indicated by the sub lord of the 8th cusp. If the 
same is connected to improving houses and_ signifies 
preferably 1,3,10 and 11 the matters represented by the 8th will be 
to his advantage. Even if the period of the planet in 8th in its own 
star and having no planets in the star of that planet and thus 
attaining the full signification of 8th operates, nothing serious will 
happen in its period. He will not meet with accidents. He will also 
derive financial benefits through sources never envisaged hitherto. 
Even though it is the full significators of the 8th no serious thing will 
happen so as to leave a scar in his life, except some stress and 
strain with a fleeting effect on mind. 


Let me further discuss regarding the cuspal sub lord of some other 
improving houses and their impact on the current periods. Let us 
take the 2nd cusp and presume that the sub lord of this cusp is 
Venus, placed in the 10th in the star of a planet Kethu (a node) in 
3rd. Assuming Mars is in 8th, Kethu is Mars agent being in Mars 
sign. Venus, let us say, owns 4 and 9 (for Kumbha_ lagna) 
So the 2nd cusp sub lord Venus has attained certain significations 
and any planet who is a full significator of 2nd and whose period 
operates can give the 2nd house results only to the extent of these 
matters. 


Here Venus promises professional money (X), end of professional 
career (IX), writing faculties (Ill), change of residence 


29 


(III), serious mental agonies, financial stress (VIII) and money 
through wills (VIII) and (II). 


So, the period of a planet signifying 2nd, through the star lord in Il, 
shall give these matters only. As the 2nd is mainly concerned with 
financial gains and since the sub lord of the 2nd cusp has been 
rendered very weak being connected to the 8th through the node 
Kethu (the star lord Kethu), his financial status will not at all be as 
affluent as could be expected in the good period as the 2nd house 
significator. From this one can infer his financial position in the 
periods of planets having weaker signification in connection with the 
2nd house. In experience, too, | found this. Even in the period of a 
planet signifying 2nd due to its placement in the star of a 2nd house 
occupant, a native well known to me did not benefit financially, 
though he got some amount by way of legacy (8th house) and that 
too was expended even before the end of that period itself. He faced 
retirement in this service, with not at all good retirement benefits. 
The 3rd house signification of the 2nd cusp sub lord gave him writing 
faculties in the period of the 2nd house significator. As the 2nd cusp 
was connected to the 8th through the node, in the period of the 2nd 
significator, there was untold mental agony pertaining to his family 
affairs and sudden change of residence also which was never 
expected (Ill and VIII) 


So the sub lord of the cusp is the barometer of that house 
significations. This is my candid opinion. 


The indications of the sub lords of the 12 cusps of a nativity are 
stamped on the native from birth to death and these significations 
represent certain matters only and these act in different proportion in 
the periods, as in the dasa of a full significator of the 12th house, 
one gets regular financial income whereas in the period of the 
significator of 2nd one gets depleted income and correspondingly 
more expenditure, thus involving the native in serious financial 
stress. Why? The 2nd cusp sub lord signifying 12th house and 12th 
cusp sub lord signifying 2nd and 


30 


11th houses give evil and beneficial results respectively, quite 
contrary to what one would normaly expect. 


The Ascendant sub lord denotes all the matters connected with 
the lagna which will be experienced in life. The lagna, among other 
things shows the longevity of the native. If the sub lord signifies 
Maraka houses, being connected to 2nd or 7th and one of the 
Bhadakasthanas, short life below 33 years is shown. So in the 
period of a significator of 1st house, though it is a life giver, if the 
birth is in a movable sing (Chara Rasi) one will die very early even in 
that period itself, may be in affluent circumstances corresponding to 
lagna and 11th signification (for Chara XI is bhadaka) if birth be ina 
fixed sign (Sthira Rasi), one will die very early before 33 years in the 
period of the significator of the 1st occupying a powerful political 
position, and if birth ina common sign (Dwisabhava Rasi), he will die 
with a background of good public contacts and business life through 
partner and death also comes in rather early. 


The 6th house is an index to debts, sickness, separation from 
wife and so on. If the 6th cusp sub lord signifies 8th, one will incur 
chronic debts, if it signifies 7 and 6, serious sickness; and if it be a 
significator 6 and 10, it shows separation from life partner. If in a 
nativity this sub lord signifies 5tth and 11th, the above matters 
will never come to pass in his life time even if he runs the period of a 
full significator of the 6th, as the above significations (i.e. 5 and 
11) are negative influences to the matters denoted by the 6th 
A planet signifying any bhava which stands in 6th, 8th or 12th 
from another bhava spoils the matters of the latter bhava. 


Take the 10th cusp. If the sub lord signifies 5th and 9th houses, 
even in the period of the planet having full signification of 10th (i.e. 
either in 10th in its own star or owning 10th cusp without any planet 
in the 10th and at the same time having no planet in its stars or 
situated in the star of a planet in 10th), he will have no definite 
occupation and in this period, the significations 5th and 


31 


9th only will be felt. No definite occupation, but much name 
or recognition will be there. It will be just a barren period so f 
ar as his occupation is concerned but will be fortunate in reg 
ard to progeny, political connections, creative work, research etc. 


Suppose the 11th cusp sub lord gets the signification of evil 
houses 8 or 12. In his life time, he wil be a miserable failure in regard 
to his ambitions. Even in the period of the full significator of the 11th 
house, not much benefit will accrue nor, Will his desires be fulfilled to 
his satisfaction. 


In presenting my observations to the esteemed followers of 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati, | would only wish to lay stress on the 
point that before venturing to predict the effect of a planet's period 
in terms of its signification of certain houses, it is essential to 
carefully scrutinize if the significations represented by such of 
those houses and the cuspal sub lords of such houses indicate 
the fructification of such of those matters and reach an 
assessment to what extent such significations will operate 
together with its limitations, in that particular planet's period. 


Suppose, again, Jupiter is in the star of a planet in 11th and 
Jupiter is stationed in the 3rd having no planet in its constellations 
Visakam, Poorttadhi and Punarpoosam. Or. checking up, the 11th 
cusp is found to signify 8th and 12m houses. What desires and 
happiness can one expect to be fulfilled or desired in this period of 
the Jupiter, a 11th house significator? Hence Jupiter, though it 
signifies 11th, it is at the same time rendered weak because of the 
connection of the 11th sub lord to 8th and I2th. So Jupiter is limited in 
power to offer the beneficial matters of the 11 th. 


Again here, Jupiter is a full significator of 3rd as explained 
above. The 3rd has connection with writing, journeys inland, 
communicative abilities etc. !f the 3rd cusp sub lord signifies 
3rd and 11th, he will, in this period of Jupiter be very bold in 
action indulge in writings and become a reputed journalist 
together with communicative abilities He will have beneficial 
journeys; he will 


32 


gain through all matters connected to the 3rd house. His writing 
will have a religious touch. 


Such assessments as illustrated above, cannot be obtained 
correctly if the natal (birth) charts are cast wrongly as a result of 
incorrect birth particulars resulting in wrong points on the house 
cusps. Even if the birth is known accurately, one is most likely to 
commit errors in computing the cusps if he were to use a table of 
Houses which furnishes the longitudes for a specified sidereal time 
only in whole degrees, such as 3°, 4°, 5° and so on, omitting the 
minutes on the cusp and rounding off to the nearest degree. This 
results, sometimes, in the Table of houses showing a certain degree 
on the cusp at a certain sidereal time and the same degree at 
another sidereal time differing by 3 minutes of time or even more. 
The cuspal point can never be the same at the same point for 
different sidereal times. How far are such Tables of Houses useful, 
especially when the predictive technique requires great; accuracy of 
the cuspal points in the horoscope? While, at this stage when births 
are stated only in hours and minutes (not in seconds) we would not 
need the cusps correct to the last seconds, we should at least know 
it correct to the nearest minute Universal Tables of Houses which 
gives the cusps of all houses to the nearest minute should be 
invariably used to calculate the cuspal points in preference to other 
tables of Houses. 


To attempt to work the house cusps precise to the second, 
whether by the process of interpolation from the Tables of Houses 
or otherwise is, to my mind, utterly futile when the stated birth 
time, such as 7.16 a.m. for any time between 7-15-30 a.m. and 
7-16-29 a.m. is only approximate. 


Any table of Houses can give house cusps only for, say, four 
minutes of sidereal time uniformly or in some other manner, 
and unless one is casting the horoscope of some person whose 
sidereal time of birth is one of those found in the Table of Houses, 
one has necessarily to interpolate from the positions furnished in 
the Tables of Houses, Now, here it is necessary that the Tables 


33 


of houses shows the cuspal points up to the nearest minute of arc. 
(not merely the nearest degree of longitude), so that the interpolation 
for an intermediate sidereal time is also done accurately. 
For instance, if the longitude on the cusp of the 2nd (or 3rd or 11 or 
12th and their opposite four houses the 8 non-angular house as they 
are called) is 1°29' (omitting the seconds, of course) at a 
specified sidereal time and 2-31 after four minutes and the Tables 
of houses gives the positions rounded off to the nearest degree, that 
is 1° and 3° respectively, it causes the user one to assume the 
movement of the cusp between these two sidereal times as 2° 
when the actual movement is only 1° - 2°. How then, can the 
user interpolate and arrive at the correct longitude (i.e. up to the 
nearest minute). So, it is advisable to follow the K.R Krishman's 
Tables of Houses and round off the result only to the minute (and 
not to the seconds which is erroneous). 


In the end, | would stress that before venturing prediction the 
horoscope should be correctly cast with the correct points on the 
twelve house cusps and correct planetary longitudes. As 
| have explained in the foregoing, a planet moves, in its period, only 
those matters - beneficial or harmful - that are signified by the lord of 
the sub-division (of the star) on the cusp of the house of which the 
said planet is the significator. The cuspal points therefore assume 
great significance and would need to be calculated and correctly. 
The house cusps play a greater role in the scheme of 
prognostication than any other factor. How else can we explain the 
different experiences of persons born at nearly the same (not the 
same) time and having the planets in almost the same position in the 
zodiac and running almost the same dasa, bhukthi and even anthra 
period? What accounts for the differences, if not the differences in 
the house cuspal points? So, we need to pay more attention to the 
house cusps. 


GOOD LUCK 


PRINCIPLE OF SUB LORDS 
AND RELEVANT HOUSES 


(FOR KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI STUDENTS ONLY) 


Our Guruji, Jothisha Marthand K.S. Krishnamurti, after his 
unceasing labour and research for nearly 40 years, devised this 
system, popularly known as Krishnamurti Padhdhati, a system 
of scientific predictive stellar astrology. 


In this system, the Ruling planets serve as a master key in 
timing the events. 


Unlike traditional system, a planet tenanting the constellation 
emits the matters of the house occupied by the constellation lord 
and the houses owned by them. 


Such matters as are indicated by the tenant planet which is 
known as the Significator will come to pass depending on the 
Sub portion of the constellation occupied by the tenant planet. 

The Concept of Significators: 
a. The planet in the constellation of the occupant of 
a house. 


b. The occupant of house, if there is no planet in its 
three stars. 


c. Planet in the constellation of the lord of the house, 
provided the houses owned by the lord of the 
constellation are unoccupied. 


d. Lord of the House, if there are no planets in any of its 
three stars and the houses owned are vacant. 


What is a Sub: 


You know that the Arcor the extent ofa star is 13°20’ (800 
mts) and is divided in the unequal proportion of the Dasa years 


35 


allotted to each planet in the VIMSHOTTARI DASA SYSTEM of 
120years. Each such part is known as SUB, contracted form of 
Sub-division. 


In other words, if the constellation is akin to DASA, the Bhukthi 
is akin to Sub and Anthra is akin to SUB-SUB. 


Just as a planet is controlled by Sub and thus its powers are 
modified in terms of its constellation lord, so also the 12 cusps in the 
Birth chart or horary chart, are ruled by SUBs and the lord of the 
same Sub is being controlled by the constellation lord and effects of 
the matters signified by the cusp and house get modified in terms of 
signification attained by the Sub lord of these cusps.. 


Table of Subs can be had in almost all of the Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati Readers and Krishnamurti Ephemeris. 


In Krishnamurti Padhdhati, the Sub lord is the deciding factor 
in all cases. This is the Sheet - anchor of Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
and is universally applied without exception to all queries whether 
judged from birth charts or horary maps, as is said by Nanganallur 
Krishnamurti in Annual Number 1977 Astrology and Athrishta 
page 19. 


For assessing a particular question and in terms of the matter 
cited in the query, one shall look into the sub lord of the cusp 
of the house which represents such matter. 


The cusp and the sub lord of that house is the deciding factor. 
As examination of the Cuspal Sub will enable one to decide finally 
and clearly, if the matter denoted by that house in question will 
fructify or not. What is a House? 


Sri K.S. Krishnamurti had advised the Placidius system to be 
used, and this system divided the 12 signs into the unequal but 
correct divisions. In this, a house is so considered to commence 
from a point in a sign, so that the space between the cusp of the 1st 
House and that of the 2nd house is the extent of the 


36 


lagna bhava, the space between the cusp of the 2nd house and 
that of the 3rd is called the 2nd bhava and so on. 


This radically differs from the Indian Traditional System where 
the cusp of a house is taken as the Mid point of a house, which 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati students need not consider at all. 


While stressing the need of assessing the strength of the 
cuspal sub lord, | desire to mention a few lines here. 


Suppose, a planet is in the VIII bhava, in its own star having no 
planet in its 3 constellations and it is Mars. So Mars is the full 
significator of the VIII house, Which stands for Accidents among 
other matters. With such a configuration, | have noticed that the 
native of that birth chart, never suffered even the slightest accident 
and he is now 62 years of age. He has seen this Mars bhukthi in 
various Dasas and this effect is not felt at all. Why? The VIllth cusp 
which stands for this matter (Accidents) reveals the real position. 
Here we must find out the significations of the VIII th cusp sublord. 
As | know, the sub lord is Venus situated in the XI th bhava in the 
star of Kethu in III. So Venus signifies Ill and XI, which promised a 
life without accidents. Hence, eventhough the planet Mars in ViIIIth 
duly attaining full signification of VIII, could not bring any accident 
whatsoever in any of his bhukthis. 


Another illustration, to substantiate the necessity to assess 
the cuspal sub lord, as it is more important regarding the 
fructification of a particular matter represented by that house. 


One of my near relatives, had birth in Cancer lagna and Mars 
the owner the V . house telling progeny, in Makaram his 
Uchasthanam. He died without children. Why? The sub lord of the V 
cusp was Moon owner of lagna and situated in 9th in the star of 
Mercury in IV house, a detriment house for Vth. So no progeny. 


| have Sun situated in XII, in the star of Moon, owing VI 
cusp and stationed in Il. The period of Sun was between 1973 


and 79. The Il house signification attained by Sun alongwith VI, 
should have given me good financial status. On the contrary | retired 
from Railway service only in this period and got meager retired 
benefits and some small amount through willed properties in terms 
of the Il nd house signification. The amount | received was very low. 
So to say | witnessed not even one promotion in service during the 
period of Sun, but | can say that | had no suffering for want of 
money. That is all. What | want to impress upon the students of 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati, is that the Sun, though it was a full 
significator of Il and VI could not give me a sound financial status, 
because the Ilnd cusp sub lord Kethu in Ill in the star of Sun, a 
depositor of XII bhavam and thus the Ilnd cusp is rendered very 
worst. (As Kethu and Mercury are in the stars of Sun, he is a very 
feeble significator of XII . house). 


That is how one should assess the strength of sub lord of the 
cusp to know the strength of the matter of that house and 
thus the entire 12 cusps, will reveal the status of the horoscope. 


So the students of Krishnamurti padhdhati may now 
understand the necessity of assessing the strength of each cusp 
before predicting the effects of a Dasa. To facilitate them | have 
consolidated the following by taking out from various Articles 
published in different issues of Astrology and Athrishta: 


1st Cusp 


1. Longevity : Sub lord of the ascendant cusp if signifies 
Bhadhaka and Maraka Houses short life. 


it signifies 1,5, 9,10 along with 3 and 8 promised long life. A 
caution is necessary here. If the sub lord of the Ascendant signifies 
Xl and Ascendant falls in a movable sign, life is short. If it falls in a 
fixed sign and signifies IX , life is short. 


2. Sickly native: If the sub lord of the lagna cusp is in the 
constellation of a planet in VI, one will be sickly. The period 
of sickness whenever the significators of 1 and 6 operates. 


3. If the ascendant sub lord of a girl is a full significator of XI 
, well connected to Jupiter, she is really Chaste and Chastity 
maintained 


4. lf the sub lord of the Ascendant is connected fully to 
Saturn, Mars and Venus and V . and XI . sub lords connected 
to either of these planets, one will be a Debauch, even to the 
extent of committing Incest. 


5. Sub lord of the 1st cusp indicates the general health of 
the native and also of the general condition of the head. 


6. The sub lord of the Ascendant is in the constellation of a 
planet who is posited in marakasthana or Bhadhakasthana the 
life is very short. 


7. Sub lord of the Ascendant tells ones physical features in 
terms of its connection with the signs and combination with other 
planets. 


8. Fame of a person is known through the 1st cusp sub lord 
connected to X. through star. 


9. Will | commit Murder - The sub lord of the Querist's 
Ascendant is deposited in the constellation of a planet which is a 
significator of the Victim's Bhadhakasthana or Marakashthana and 
also the significator of Querist's Il house, then he commits 
Murder. 


10. To lead a spiritual life, the sub lord of Ascendant being 
Kethu, deposited in the constellation of a planet in IX th and Kethu 
in some manner connected to Saturn and XIl. If he has Venus 
well connected to Mars, he will lead a family life and spiritual 
life without taking to Sanyasa Margam. (Kethu Gnanakaraka, IX 
philosophy and higher knowledge, XII for service to others) 


11. In the question of the missing person, the sub lord of the 
1st cusp signifies II, VIll and XI, he is sure to return in the period of 


39 


the significators of 2, 8 and 11, as is the case being consulted by 
the kith and kin of the missing one. 


12. If the sub lord of the Ascendant is deposited in the 
constellation of the planet occupying houses | or XI, health is 
generally very good. 


13. A woman can be a witch only when the sub lord 
Ascendant is in a fiery sign having strong connection with all 
the three Evil houses i.e. 6, and 8 and 12 along with Saturn and 
Mars or Kethu, connected in some way or the other. 


14. Lagna denotes mental disposition and changes in 
individual life. If the sub lord of lagna happens to be Kethu who 
is moksha karaka as well as Gnanakaraka and situated in the 
star of a planet in XII and connected to IX , through Sub or 
some other manner, the native's mental disposition will be poised 
towards MOKSHASTHANA. 


ll Cusp: 
1. Speaking Truth: Sub lord of the Il . cusp is 


Untruth and mischievious 


Governed by Mars 


Saturn = Hides some news 
Mercury a detailed information 
Venus = peace maker 

Sun = Noble, Never lies 
Jupiter = Truth only. 


2. Ifthe sub lord of the Il cusp is Mars or in the star of 
Mars = spend thrift, Saturn = Economical and stead fastness. 


3. To cheat another: Sub lord of the Il cusp should be 
deposited in the star of the significator of 6 and 10, and Saturn 
and Mercury connected to the sub lord in some manner. 


4. If the sub lord of the II cusp is either Kethu or Rahu 
and found in a Mute sign, there is defect in speech (cusp also to 
be formed in the star of a planet owning Mute sign). 


5. Il cusp indicates Finance, family, marriage and 
Kutumbham, childbirth and maraka (death) etc. 


If the sub lord of the II nd cusp signifies 5 an 11, predict child 
birth; 7 and 11 predict marriage; 6 only borrowing money and 
incoming debt; 7 only finance through public contacts; 6 and 
11 success in litigation or getting promotion in service, 6 and 1 
borrowing money due to ill health; 7 and 10 lucrative income 
through business; 7 and Bhadhaka house death. 


6. If the sub lord of the II cusp is well connected to VII second 
marriage, if connected only to Xlth house, one will have a keep as 
(VII house shows legal bondage whereas XI indicates attachment 
and friendship only) 


7.The sub lord of the Il cusp is connected to XII defect in eye 
can be envisaged in general. 


8. The sub lord of the Il cusp is connected to VIII .., right 
eye is defective. 


9. If the sub lord of the II nd cusp is in the constellation of a 
depositor of 6 and 11, shows very good financial status; 


In houses 2 and 10, moderate affluence; 
In houses 1 and 3, just satisfactory financial condition. 


Improving houses (i.e. 1,2, 3, 6, 10 and 11) are favourable 
from the financial point of view. 


10. If the sub lord of the Il cusp be connected in any 
manner with the XI house, then one may have connection with 
another's wife other than his legal partner, provided V is 
connected with II nd (otherwise it tells about using another man's 


property). 


Houses 2, 5 and 11 should be considered for periods 
and timing the event. 


41 


11. If the sub lord of the Il cusp is Jupiter and signifies 
XI house, whatever he speaks is true and will come to pass. 
(Vaksuddhi). 


12. If Mars happens to be the sub lord of the II cusp he is 
argumentative and authoritative. If it signifies VIII th it portends 
quarrelsome nature in speech. 


13. If the sub lord of the Il cusp is Venus and signifies XI 
. or V th, one will connect sex in speech invariably in all matters. 


14. If the sub lord of the Il cusp is Saturn, one will use 
hide and seek and jugglery of words, while speaking eventhough 
the matter is genuine and good one. 


15. If the sub lord of the Il nd cusp is connected to II and XIl, 
one will get money through behind the screen matters (in a secret 
manner). 


Ill . cusp: 


1. Getting a telephone: Houses 3, 9 and 11. Sub lords of 
the Ill cusp signifying 3 and 11. 


2. Disposal of the produced goods: Sub lord of the Il nd 
cusp signifying 3 and 11 will fetch profit, 3 and 12 loss. 


3. Lottery: Houses 3, 8 and 11 sub lord of the 3rd cusp (timing 
through the significators of 2, 6 and 11 connected to Ill house 
in any manner) 


4. Rumour: Sub lord of the Ill. cusp is in the star of Saturn, it is 
false, if Mars Mischievous, Jupiter; True. | like to advise the students 
of Krishnamurti padhdhati to look in to the scholarly Article of Sri 
K.R. Kar in September 1980 issue of Astrology and Athrishta on 
Page 18, under Analysis, he had given a fine interpretation of 
planets regarding Rumour or information when connected to III cusp, 
in terms of Tamo Guna, Rajo Guna and Satwa Guna. 


42 


5. Boldness to undertake job: If the sub lord of the Ill rd 
cusp is the significator of 2 or 10 or 11, one will surely undertake 
and come out successful. 


6. If the sub lord of the Ill cusp is Mars, one will never 
be contented. IfJupiter - legitimate and reasonable ambition. If 
Saturn no content at all. 


7. If Ill cusp sub lord is connected to 3 and 11, negotiation 
will be successful. 


8. If the sub lord of the Ill ,. cusp is either Jupiter. Sun, 
Mars or Venus, one has courage and confidence to compete 
any competitive examination. 


Houses 4, 9 and 11 should be judged for timing event and 
success and for departmental examinations and also interviews 
include 6 and 10. 


9. If the sub lord of the Ill cusp signifies XI , and also 
connected to Mercury and Jupiter, one has Journalistic capacities. 


10. If the sub lord of the Ill cusp signifying 3 and 11 tells 
receipt of letter. 3 and 11 houses to be judged and Moon 
progressed for timing the event. 


11. If the sub lord of the Ill , cusp is deposited in the 
constellation of the significators of 6and 11, there will be success 
in Appeal - on petition - request in courts. 


12. If the sub lord of the Ill cusp is the full significator of 1st 
bhava, he is a daring person. 


13. Negotiation: If the negotiation is for marriage the VII house has 
to be judged apart from 3 and 9, if it is for business 10 and 6, have to 
be judged in addition to 3 and 9. For getting living accomodation IVth 
house also needs consideration, apart from 3 and 9. 


43 


If houses 3 and 9 signify XI it is successful and if on the 
contrary connected to XII , indicates failure. 


So the sub lord of the Ill. | cusp is in the constellation of 
a planet in 3 or 9 and also signify XI. , the negotiation is successful. 


The significators of 3, 9, and 11 will mark the time of 
fructification. 


14. If the IIl cusp sub lord gets the signification of X house, 
one will possess a warrior nature. 


15. If the sub lord of the Ill cusp signifying XII house 
duly well connected to Mars, one should predict defective hearing. 


IV .cusp: 


1. Discharge from Hospital: - Houses Il, IV and XI sub lord 
of the IV th cusp. 


2. Construction of House: Houses IV, XI and XII Sub lord of 
the IV th cusp. 


3. Will a particular Child go in adoption: If the IV cusp 
sub lord of the child is deposited in a Dual sign or if the sub lord 
itself is Mercury and if the sub lord is a significator of VIII 
house (house for Legacy), the child is given in Adoption. 


The conjoining period of the significators of 4 and 8, 
houses of the child to be considered for timing the event. 


4. Any treasure in my building; If the sub lord of the IV cusp is 
deposited in the constellation of planets 2, 6 or 11 you will have 
treasure. 


The lord of the constellation must have some connection 
with Saturn in Direct motion. 


5. The House under query is a Haunted one if the sub lord 
of the IV cusp signifies 3 or 9, and in any manner connected 
with Saturn and Mars, Uranus and Neptune. 


44 


6. If the sub lod of the IV cusp signifies 8 or 12 or 4, you 
will marry a career girl. 


7. When will we reach home? 


If the sub lord of the IV cusp is in the constellation of a pl 
anet signifying Xl and in a movable sign, we will reach home 
soon. If fixed sign - long duration, if common sign undue delay. 


8. Medical examination : (Physical): If the sub lord of the IV 
cusp is a significator of X house and well connected to X| 
you will appear for medical examination and come out successful. 


9. Release from Jail: Sub lord of the IV cusp signifies 2,4 
and 11 and release will be in the conjoining period of 2, 4 and 
11. 


10. Domestic environments are shown through the sub lord of 
the IV cusp. 


11. Sub lord of the IV cusp is in the constellation of Mercury 
or Jupiter, promises education and planets signifying 4, 9 and 
11 give education in ther periods and Bhukthis; and in what 
measure is to be judged from the sub lords of the cusps of 9 and 
11 also. The sub lord of the 9th cusp throws light on Higher studies 
and research. 


12. 4th cusp represents the educational institution (college). 
So the sub lord of the IV cusp if posited in the star of Planets 
signifying 4 and 11, admission into the institution (college) is 
certain. 


13. Sub lord of the IV cusp signifying VIIl and XII causes 
breaks in Education or no education in certain cases. 


14.To sell a house, the sub lord ofthe X cusp signifies 3 
or 10 (Mars should have some relevance with 10th) 


Houses 3,5 and 10 to be judged for selling and 3 and 12 for 
giving possession. 


45 


Note: 4th represents immovable property (Land, Building 
etc) Mars is the Karaka for such properties. 


The purchaser is represented by the 7th cusp of the chart 
and his acquisition of property is denoted by 4th from 7th i.e. 10th. 


Whether any party would purchase the querent's property 
(i.e. whether the querent will be able to sell the property) is 
therefore to be judged from the 10th cusp of the chart. 


The querent's property is denoted by the 4th cusp and his 
parting with it by the 3rd house (which is 12 from 4). Thus some 
party would purchase only if the sub lord of the X cusp is a 
signifcator of 3rd and 10th. The 5th house is also relevant to the 
matter as it is the 11th house from the VII , representing purchaser. 


15. House: If the sub lord of the IV cusp signifies 4, 11 and 12, 
one will construct a house and Mars also should come into the 
picture for immovable properties and buildings and Saturn for 
construction. 11h fulfillment of desires and 12th for investment of 
money. 


Note: As the purchased house is not a new building, 6 and 9 bh 
avas are also to be judged because, 6th is 12th for 7th which 
stands for the person who sells and the 9th is 12th to 4th of the 7th. 


16. Transfer in service: The sub lord of the IV cusp signifies 
3, 10 and 12 and the conjoint period of these houses operate 
transfer is effected. 


If IVth cusp sub lord signifies 4th house and if there is a 
transfer order issued, it will get cancelled if the 11th cusp sub lord 
signifies 1, 2, 4, 10 and 11 and he will be retained if these 
significators operate. 


17. If the sub lord of the IV cusp is in the star of a planet 
signifying 3 and 12, change in residence cannot be ruled out. 


46 


18. To ascertain the outcome of an examination one has to 
look the sub lord of the IV cusp. The same should be connected 
to the XI.. house and at the same time should have no connection 
with the 3rd which is a negation to the IV th house matters. Then 
he will be successful. 


19. If the IV . cusp sub lord is venus itself and connected to any 
of the improving houses in movable signs, one will have vehicles 
and vehicular comforts; if in fixed signs furniture and if in common 
signs rocking chair like articles, giving bodily comforts. 


V_scusp: 
1. Child Birth: houses 2, 5 and 11. Sub lord of the Vth cusp 
signifying 2, 5 and 11. 


2. Children denied: If the sub lord of the Vth cusp signifies 1, 
4 and 10 one can never have a child. 


3. Playing Cards or bet in a race course: If the sub lord of the 
vth cusp signifies 6 and 11, wins most satisfactory 2 and 10, 
moderate gain 1 and 3 in significant gain 12 and 5 loss. 


NOTE: there are two types of speculative gains. 
1. Lottery, prize bonds etc. 
2. Horse Racing, Cards, Share market 


3. In Krishnamurti Padhdhati, it has been stated that the 
improving houses i.e. 1,2, 3, 6, 10 and 11, whenever receiving 
favourable aspects, promises victory over enemies, win in 
competition, success in litigation, gain in lottery, games etc. etc. 


It is also said that the 3rd house denotes gain in lottery, prize 
bond whereas the V house, horse racing, cards, share market etc., 
provided the significators of 2,6 and 11 has connection with 
3rd or 5th house. 


47 


It is imperative that whenever judgement for horse racing, cards 
etc is to be made, one is to take only the planets that have 
connection with the Vth house, but never take the planets or 
significators (specially the sub portion) which signify the Vth house 
matter as the V is the XI for 7th house i.e. gain to opponent. 


4. Will invalid child pick up health: If the querent is the parent, 
take the cusp of the V house as the Ascendant of the child and 
if the sub lord of the V house (Ascendant of child) is the 
significator of 3 and 5, the child will pick up health. If it 
signified 10th, and connected to Saturn also in any manner, 
the child will not recover. 


5. If the sub lord of the Vth cusp is deposited in the 
constellation of a planet situated in 1st | house which may be either 
Leo or Aquarius one has musical talent. 


6. If the sub lord of the V cusp is deposited in the 
constellation of 5, 6 and 10 and in any manner connected to 
Venus, one becomes a popular Actor. 


7. If the sub lord of the V cusp is deposited in the constellation of 
a planet signifying 7 and 11, materialisation of love affair into 
marriage is definite. 


If in the constellation connected to 6 and 12, it will not 
materialize. 


8. Ones prestige is lost as Debauch, if the V cusp sub lord 
signifies 10 and 12. 


9. Ones property is lost if the sub lord of the 5* cusp is a 
significator of 4 and 12, through debauchery. 


10. Cash is lost if the 5th cusp sub lord signifies 2 and 12, 
through debauchery. 


11. Initiation, of Manthras and Siddhi, if the 5th cusp sub lord is 
connected to 11th and Saturn in some manner connected (Saturn is 
the planet for renunciation and tapas). 


48 


12. The sub lord of the 5* cusp signifying 5 or 7 or both and 
being connected with Venus, the karaka of music shows proficiency 
in music (5th house is for music and 7th for fine arts). 


13. Speculation; If the sub lord of the 5th cusp signifies 2, 6, 5 
and 11 one gains in speculation. 


14. By examining the sub lord of the 5th cusp, and 
Venus, Love affairs sexual pleasure, the degree of success or 
failure achieved in Love affairs, courtship and licentiousness etc 
. can be seen. 


15. If 5th cusp sub lord stays in the constellation of a planet 
deposited in 11m and also signifies 10,h, one becomes a statesman. 


16. Attaining Puberty: The 5th cusp sub lord should be the 
significator of 5th or 8th or both; and Mars also should be well 
connected to 5th or 8th in any manner since Mars represents blood 
in the body. 


For fructification consider 2, 5 and 11th house and their 
conjoining period for timing the event. 
VI cusp: 

1. Overdraft facility: Sub lord of the 6th cusp signifying 2, 6 
and 11 and in the conjoining period of these significators. 


2. Illness: Houses 6, 8 and 12. 


Sub lord of the 6th cusp signifying any of the above 
houses or all. 


In the conjoining period of Ascendant and 6th house 
signification, sickness is there. 12 is connected hospitalization is 
there; 8 tells seriousness of the disease and danger to life can be 
envisaged.. 


3. Promotion: Sub lord of 6 and 10th cusps. In the conjoining 
period of 2, 6 and 11. 


49 


4. Getting a tenant: Sub lord of the 6th cusp. In the conjoining 
period of 4, 6 and 11. 


5. For reappointment in service, the sub lord of the 6th cusp 
should signify 6 or 10 or 2nd and if signifies 1, 5, 9 or 12, no 
reappointment. 


6. In exchange business, if the sub lord of the 5th cusp 
signifies 6 & 11 you gain and if 5 & 12 you stand to loose. 


7. lf the sub lord of the 6th cusp signifies 2, 6 and 11. there is 
receipt of money as one desires 


8. To get donation, see the sub lord of the 6th cusp signifies 
2or6or11. 


9. To get back entangled money, the sub lord of the 6th 
cusp should signify 2, 6 and 11, and should have nothing to do 
with Saturn. 


10. If the sub lord of the 6th cusp signifies 1,6 and 11 success 
in litigation is promised. 


11 .The sub lord of the 6th cusp reveals the type of disease in 
terms of its placements in the birth chart or horary Chart and it is 
seen through the sign lord, star lord. 


12. If the sub lord of the 6th cusp is in the 12th from lagna and 
becomes a strong significator of 6th the native will definitely suffer 
from an incurable disease. 


13. When will the tenant vacate? 6th house indicates tenant. 
4th and 11th counted there from denote occupation of your house. If 
he is to vacate the 3rd from 6th should operate. So the significator of 
8th (3rd from 6th); should be connected with 6th. ence during 
the conjoining period of the significator of 6 and 8 he vacates. 


14.To get a loan: The sub lord of the 6th cusp should not be in 
Retrograde motion or in the constellation of a planet in 


Retrograde status, and also have some connection with the 
houses II or VI or Xl 


15. In general if the sub lord of the 6th cusp gets a 
good signification in a horoscope i.e. connected to improving 
houses (1,2, 3, 6, 10 and 11) he will be a man of success 
in all theatres of life while dealing with others. 


16. Pet animals and about maternal uncle, one can read 
through the sub lord of the 6th cusp if connected to (signifies) 
the improving houses, benefit through them can be enjoyed; if 
connected to 5. 8 and 12 loss and trouble from these sources. 


Vil cusp: 


1. Marriage: If the sub lord of the 7th cusp signifies 2, 7and 11 
and with unafflicted venus, marriage is promised and the same 
fructifies in the conjoining period of the significators of 2, 7 and 11. 


2. Marriage stopped: If the sub lord of the 7th cusp is the 
significator of 1, 6, 10 or 12, marriage will not take place with the 
party in question, position of venus too be looked into. 


3. If the sub lord of the 7th cusp is in the constellation of a 
planet signifying 6 and 11, you can have a partner in business. If 
signifies 6 and 12, Partnership will break. It signifies 5 and 11, 
permanent tie with partner. If signifies 5, 8 and 12, partner will be 
benefited and you stand to loose much. 


4. If the sub lord of the VII cusp is the significator of 7, 8, 
12 and 5, opponent is very powerful in all walks of life. 


5. If the sub lord of the VII cusp signifies 2, 7 and 11 and the girl 
born with such Ruling Planets (as are the significators of 2, 7 and 
11) you can marry rich girl for harmonious married life. if 1, 6 and 10 
she will not come under marriage fold. 


6. Will marriage take place between A & B: 


51 


if to Lagna that rises as per the Number given by quarent within 
249, Moon is posited at the time of the query in any of the houses 3, 
5, 7, 10 or 11, and it received beneficial aspect from Jupiter with 
benefic signification in the chart, marriage will surely 
take place between them. 


If Saturn comes, there will be some delay and no denial. 


7. If the sub lord of the VII cusp is either Venus or Jupiter 
and signifies 2 and 11, very happy marital life. 


8. If the VIl cusp sub lord is Sun - no pleasure; Moon - 
very pleasant; Mars - silly quarrels and displeasure; Mercury - 
enjoys more than ones; Jupiter - pleasant; Venus - extreme 
pleasure; 64 leelas: Saturn - dissatisfaction in intercourse and 
duration short. 


9. If the 7th cusp sub lord is Saturn, aged husband i.e. 
difference is very much. Jupiter, Venus and Sun - Proper 
difference in age, Moon, Mars or Mercury - Difference is very 
little and attimes husband will be younger. Rahu and Kethu; In 
terms of Rasi lords. 


10. If the 7th cusp sub lord in the constellation of a planet 
signifying 4 and 10, one living in the same house or village. 3rd - 
partner may be cousin or a neighbour. Ascendant - in the same 
Town. 11th - from the friends family. 5 and 9 Love marriage or 
foreigner. 


11. VII th cusp sub lord is Mercury or any planet occupying Dual 
sign, more than one wife and if the same sub lord signified II and XI. 


12.If you want to know your future from an astrologer, the 
VII cusp denotes the astrologer 


If the sub lord of the VII cusp is a fast moving planet, he 
will predict immediately, slow moving planet, there will be delay 
in Analysis of the problem. 


52 


13. THEFT: If the sub lord of the 7th cusp is Mercury, thief is 
very young; Venus - youthful and young female; Mars - full of 
age; Jupiter - middle age; Saturn - elderly person; Sun - young; 
and sex - see the sub lord in terms of the planet's Sex. 


14. Partner in business is shown by 7th cusp. If the sub lord is 
Mercury tells more than one partner and if signifies 11th strong tie of 
partnership and if well connected to Venus through Sub, cordial 
relationship are promised. 


15. To find out if one died of MURDER: The sub lord of the 
7th cusp is deposited in the constellation of a planet which is the 
significator of Bhadhaka or Marakasthanas in terms of the 1st cusp 
and also 8th house. The person murdered represents the 1st cusp. 


Vill cusp: 


1. If the sub lord of the 8th cusp signifies 5, 6, 8 and 12 he 
will be borrowing from A to Z. 


2. If the sub lord of the 8th cusp signifies 2, 10 or 11 
he returns the borrowed money. 


3. If the sub lord of the 8th cusp signifies 6 and 11, you 
receive cheque and he looses. 


4. If the sub lord of the 8th cusp deposited in the star of a 
planet signifying maraka or bhadhaka houses and also 8th house 
and more connected to Mars, Suicidal death is to be predicted. 


5. Nature of death: Sub lord of the 8th cusp and its 
connection to other houses through star and elements to be 
considered (4 elements Fiery, Earthy, Airy and Watery). 


6. While 6th cusp sub lord tells about the nature of the 
disease, that of 8th tells about danger; and fatality is finally told. 


7. Death by suicide: The sub lord of the 8th cusp must 
be deposited in the constellation of a planet signifying either 


53 


bhadhakasthana or Marakasthana and moreover of the 8th house. 
Further the lord of the constellation must have some connection 
with Mars, Karaka of unnatural death. 


8. Accident can happen only when the sub lord of the 8th cusp 
is deposited in the constellation of a planet signifying 8th house and 
it happens in the conjoined period of the significators of 1 and 8. It 
will be fatal only if the sub lord of the 8th cusp is in the constellation 
of the significator of Bhadhaka or Marakasthanas. 


9. Surgery is denoted by the 8th house. For one to undergo 
surgery (an operation), the sub lord of the 8th cusp should be well 
connected with 6th (house of sickness), 8th (the house of surgery) or 
12th (house that indicates hospitalization, confinement to bed). The 
same sub lord should also in some manner be connected to Mars, 
the Karaka for Knives (Surgery). Operation takes place in the 
conjoint period of 6, 8, 12th houses. 


Xe ][2 


1. Longevity of father: Houses 3 and 10th and bhadhaka- 
sthanas reckoned in terms of IX being movable, fixed and common 
signs. 


Sub lord of the 9th cusp signifying other than the above 
houses i.e. 9, 11,1,6 for long life of the father. 


2. 9th cusp sub lord signifying 1 and 11, paternal 
properties are sure. 


3. 9th cusp sub lord connected to 3, 9 and 10, indicates 
pilgrimage and journey to Holy places. 


4. Who is an Astrologer: If the sub lord of the 9th cusp 
is deposited in the star of planets signifying 2, 9 and 11, one 
can become successful astrologer. Jupiter and Moon should 
be connected to 9 and 12. 


54 


X cusp: 


1. Employment: Houses 2, 6, 10 and 11, Sub lord of the 10th 
cusp. 


2. Promotion: Houses 2, 6, 10 and 11 sub of 10 and 6. 
3. Pilgrimage: Houses 3, 9 and 10 sub of 10th cusp. 


4. Disposal of Immovable property: Houses 3,5 and 10 sub 
of 10th cusp signifying 3, 5 and 10. 


5. Income Tax trouble: Houses 7, 8 and 12 sub lord of 
the 10th cusp. 


6. If the 10th cusp sub lord signifies 7, his profession (main) is 
business and if signifies 6, profession is service. 


7. For reinstatement in service, the sub lord of the 10th cusp 
signifies 2, 6 and 10; and will never be reinstated if signifies 1,5, 9 
and 12. 


8. For one to earn by self exertion, the sub lord of the 10th cusp 
should be a significator of 2 (the house of self acquisition) or 10 (the 
house of profession). If the sub lord of 10th connected to 6, one 
earns by service, if the sub lord of 7th, one earns by business. If the 
sub lord of 10th cusp is connected with a dual sign and with both 6 
and 7, one will earn by service as well as business and so on. 


9. POLITICS: The sub lord of the 10th cusp should 
signify 1, 6, 9, 10 and 11 and planets Jupiter Mercury, 
Mars and Saturn also should have connection to 10th. 


For Jupiter - Celestial Chief Minister 
For Mercury - Messenger of God 
For Mars - Commander in Chief 


For Saturn - position of trust 


55 


For Ascendant - Denotes success 
For 6th - Defeat of opponents 

For 9th - General fortune 

For 10th - honour and popularity 
For 11th - Ambition achieved 


10. If the 10th cusp sub lord is Saturn and signifies 11th house, 
one will earn money through illegal ways. 


11.If the 10th cusp sub lord is total significator of 7th house and 
in no way it has connection with any other house - he will be a man 
of public activities without any material happiness or return. 


J=A P_j[2 
1. Reunion with the husband: houses 2, 7 and 11; sub of the 


11th cusp signifying 2, 7 and 11; fructification in the conjoining period 
of significators of 2, 7, 11. 


2. Recovery of the lost property: Sub lord of the XI th cusp 
signifying ouses 2, 6 and 11 and _ ffructification in their 
conjoint period. 


3. Return of the missing person: Sub lord of the XI th cusp 
signifying 2, 4, 6 and 11. In the conjoining period of the significators 
of 2, 8 and 11. 


4. Will | tap water: If the sub lord of the XI cusp is deposited 
in the constellation of a planet in a watery sign you will tap water. 
If in a barren sign, cannot tap water. 


5. If the sub lord of the XIth cusp signifies 1 and 2, and also 
Xlth, one has success in any enterprise he undertakes and there is 
fulfillment of his desires. 


6. If the sub lord of the XI cusp is in the XII bhava or connected 
in any manner to 12th, and also connected to IX and 


56 


XI it shows his success in his attempts to do research and the 
sub lord's placement in 12, indicates doing so in a foreign country. 


7. Ifthe sub lord of the XI cusp in the constellation of the 
significators of IV and IX and in some way connected to Jupiter, 
PHD is got. If the same sub lord is in a movable sign, he will 
become PHd very early. 


8. For winning election, the sub lord of the XI cusp should 
signify 1,6,10 and 11 and for failure 5, 8 and 12. 


For no of seats in an election, Fortuna is to be looked into. 


9. For prosperity of an institution; the sub lord of the XI 
cusp signifies 6 and 10, prosperity is promised. 


10. Sub lord of the XI cusp signifying any of the Houses 1, 
2, 3, 6, 10 and 11, will have friends who will be helpful and 
beneficial. 


11. Interview: If the sub lord of the XI cusp is Direct and 
signifies 3 and 9, Interview is successful, in the conjoining period 
of 3 and 9. 


12. Child's return from school: This is strictly worked out 
on number given by the mother of the child. 


If the sub lord of the XI . cusp signifies 5 and 11, child 
will return when the transiting lagna degree touches the 5 and 
11 significators. 


13. If the sub lord of the XI ... cusp signifies 2, 6 and 11, in all 
cases of theft, lost property will be recovered, if the 
significators of 2, 6 and 11 agrees with the ruling planets. 


14. Marital life is indicated by the sub lord of the VII cusp, 
but the nature of marital life is assessed through the sub lord of 
the XI cusp only. 


57 


15. To get party ticket for assembly election: XI _ cusp sub lord 
should be the significator of Ill, being the house for agreement 
or permission to go ahead with the election. 


16.The XI cusp sub lord signifying 5, 10 and 11 shows 
Siddhi following Initiation. 5th shows manthra, 10th tells regular 
practice and XIth points to achievement. 


17. If the sub lord of the XI cusp is a significator of houses 
2, 5, 7 or 11 perfect harmony and happy matrimonial life is 
indicated. 


18. If the sub lord of the XI cusp is a significator of 6 and 
12. there is no cure or recovery from illness, If the same sub lord 
signifies 5 and 11, recovery from illness is promised. 


XII cusp: 
1. Foreign trip: Houses3, 9 and 12. 
Sub lord of the 12th cusp should signify 3 or 9or12. (3 shows 


leaving home and home land; 9th shows long journey; 12 
tells new atmosphere and environment) 


2. Loss of reputation: Sub lord of the XII cusp signifying 
Vill and XII; and happens in the conjoining period of the 
significators of VIII and XIl. 


3. If the sub lord of the XII cusp is a significator of 3 or 
9 or 12 and also a strong significator of VI th, trip is there on 
foreign assignment. 


4. if the sub lord of the XII cusp signifies 2, 3, 8 and 12 
and Rahu also well connected to the sub lord, Imprisonment is 
indicated (preferably Rahu be the sub lord itself and signify 3, 8 
and 12) 


2: afflicted - separation from family 


3: Leaving home and residence 


58 


8 : Restriction in movements 


12.Confinement within 4 walls and life in entirely different 
surroundings. 


5. Ifthe sub lord of the XII cusp is a natural benefic and 
signifies 2, 6 and 11, one is lucky in all and there will be more 
return within expenses. 


6. The defects are shown by the sub lord of the XII th cusp. For 
a native to have a defect, the sub lord of the XII th cusp should be a 
significator of one of the evil houses 6, 8 or 12. The nature of the sub 
lord of the 12th cusp and bhava (s), it signifies throw light on the part 
of the body affected. 


7. If the sub lord of the XII cusp signifies 6, 8 and 12 and 
some way connected to Il nd house, major defect to left eye is 
shown. 


8. If a person is cheated by another, then the sub lord of the 
XII the cusp will be in the constellation of planets signifying V 
and VIII; and at the same time the planets connected with the 
significators are mostly Saturn and Mercury. 


The above matters are consolidated purely for the benefit of 
the Krishnamurti Padhdhati students. 


| am open for correction from the Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
stalwarts and on hearing from them, the corrections may ple 
ase be carried out by the Editor of Astrology and Athrishta. The 
same be advised very early so that Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
students are benefited well and early. 


With pranams to our GURUJI. 


ASTROLOGY: TRADITIONAL AND 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 


(NATAL HOROSCOPY) 


Followers of Krishnamurti Padhdhati are fortunate in the sense 
that the late lamented Guruji K.S. Krishnamurti, has handed down 
to posterity the priceless knowledge and wisdom in the form of 
Krishnamurti padhdhati which aids to arrive at correct predictions 
without any contradictions and without memorizing any sloka. Rules 
are simple and crystal clear. Predictions prove very correct and no 
ifs and buts. Still followers of Krishnamurti Padhdhati some times 
encounter difficulties in predicting. It is not the fault of Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati, rather it lies with the interpreter who brings his " wishful 
thinking" in the predictions. The writer of this article is a votary of 
Krishnamurti padhdhati since April 1963, blends traditional, with 
krishnamurti padhdhati while reading afflictions concerning 
childlessness, supra dosha, pretha badha and other badhas. 


Five golden rules are the gift of Sri Uchishta Maha Ganapathy 
in the form of Krishnamurti Padhdhati. 


1. Adopt and follow Krishnamurti padhdhati Ayanamsa only. 


2. Sub lord of lagna must be connected in some manner 
with the birth star of a native. 


3. Selection of significators - Rule is ever universal. 


4. Dasa, Bhukthi and Anthra lords are connected with ruling 
planet at birth for fulfillment of any desire or event. 


5. Discovery of ruling planet for anything either in natal or 
Horary and for arriving at period fulfillment. 


In the light of the above theory, a natal chart is erected below 
indicating the occurrence of two happy events. Marriage on 
15-3-1971 and birth of first female child on 22-1-72 


60 


Chart: 


U eran Rahu 13-33 
ranus - 
XII 23-09 | |.Asc. 27-30 IN 21-28 
125-32 Ven. 25-37 
Mars 25-52 Sat. 26-59 
20-8-1945 Monday 
XI 19-02 11-34 p.m. (Actual | S.T) IV 18-29 
12-31 A.M. (War-Tlme) 
Place : 12-30 N 75E 
Ayanamsa : 22-59 (KP) 
Balance Dasa at Birth Merc. (R) 
X 18-29 Sun Dasa 4-05 
4Y-11M-21D Sun 4-20 
V 19-02 
Moon Jup. 6-05 
28-56-40 Nep. 11-48 
VIII 25-32 Bs 
IX 21-28 Vil27-30 | For, 22-08 
Kethu 13-33 VI 23-09 
Planets RasiLord StarLord Sub lord 
Sun Sun Kethu Moon 
Moon Jupiter Sun Mars 
Mars Venus Mars Rahu 
Neptune (R) Sun Kethu Moon 
Jupiter Mercury Sun Mercury 
Venus Mercury Jupiter Mercury 
Saturn Mercury Jupiter Venus 
Rahu Mercury Rahu Mercury 
Kethu Jupiter Venus Venus 
Uranus Venus Mars Mars 
Neptune Mercury Moon Mars 
Fortuna Mercury Moon Venus 


61 


Houses Rasi Lord Star Lord Sub Lord 


| Mars Sun Moon 
ll Venus Mars Rahu 
Vv Sun Venus Rahu 
Vil Venus Jupter Venus 
Xl Saturn Rahu Moon 


Moon who is the sub lord of Lagna, is in the birth star of the 
native viz. Uthrashada. So lagna cusp is correct. 


Mariage was celebrated in Rahu dasa, Guru bhukthi, Budha 
anthra. 


Is the marriage promised or Not? Yes, it is. 


Sub lord of 7th cusp is Sukra. Sukra lords over 2 and 7 houses, 
and is placed in the 3rd house. Lord of 7 in third house indicates 
among other things, one living at a short distance and is a distant 
relation. This aspect is correct in the case of this native's husband. 


Rahu is in the second house conjoined with Venus (Lord of 
2 and 7) and Saturn (Lord of 11). Rahu is also the constellation 
lord of 11th cusp itself. The native was born on Monday and Moon 
aspects Rahu. Rahu is in its own star and its sub lord Mercury (Lord 
of 3 and 6) is in the star of Kethu who is conjoined with Moon (ruling 
planet). This Mercury is in rapt conjunction with Sun, lord of fifth 
bhava and also the birth star of the lady. A node will act it is 
conjoined, or aspected and then represent the lord of the house. 


Rahu Dasa Guru Bhukthi started on 23-4-1970. During Budha 
Anthra (commenced on 5-1-1971) an alliance was received (Budha 
Lord of 3rd bhava and for quick results) and settled. Marriage was 
celebrated on 15-3-1971 (Monday ruling planet at birth) when Moon 
was transitting swathi star in Thula rasi, Guru, the Bhukthinatha is 
the constellation lord of 7th cusp, besides is in the fifth bhava, in the 
star of Sun (ruling planet at birth) and in the sub of Budha. Guru was 
transiting Vrischika (12th from moon 


62 


sign and 8th from Lagna, and as per cusp position seventh bhava 
from lagna. Gochara results are mainly read from Lagna bhava as 
per stellar and sub division method except when Guru is in 6, 8 and 
12 from Moon Rasi, the results indicated in traditional system, 
applies partly. 


Guru lord of 9th and 12th houses in 5th house and is in the star 
of Sun lord of the 5th house. Budha sub lord of Guru's position is 
connected with Sun lord of 5th house. Hence a child was born on 
22-1-1972 in Rahu Dasa Guru Bhukthi Moon Anthra. It is worthy to 
note that the Dasa, Bhukthi and Anthra are connected with the 
ruling planet at birth for the fulfillment of events. Long Live 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati. 


GOOD LUCK. 


63 


RETRIEVING LANDS FROM TENANT 


A gentleman had a parcel of land in a village in Tiruchi District 
(South India), which was occupied by a tenant, who never gave 
even a grain to the owner for the past three years. The owner 
wanted to take possession of the land for self-cultivation, but the 
tenant was evading by dilatory tactics. In the circumstances, the 
owner of the land wanted to know if at all he would be successful in 
his efforts to get back the land and whether he should prefer a civil 
suit or launch criminal proceedings against the tenant. 


The number given was 222, and the matter was judged at 
Madras at 3-47 p.m on Monday, the 22"4 December, 1980. 


Chart: 
IV 23*54'26" moon 
Il 25°17'52" Ill 26°54'26" 16*06' 
V 19*54'26" 
| 20*00'00" VI 17*54'26" 
Rahu 19%*33' 
VII 20*0*0" 
Kethu 19°33" Edtiuhe 
XII 28*51'-0" 
17*54'26" 
Mars 29*52' Jup. 15%12" 
XI 19°54'26" es ee 
Sun 7*15' X 23°54'26' IX 28*54'-26" Sat. 15*-38 
. Ven. 11*42’ VIII 
Merc. 2°19" pete ene 
Planet Star Lord Sub lord 
Sun Kethu Rahu 
Moon Rahu Venus 


Mars Sun Rahu 


Mercury Kethu Venus 
Jupiter Moon Jupiter 
Venus Saturn Moon 
Saturn Moon Jupiter 
Rahu Mercury Venus 
Kethu Moon Mercury 
Fortuna Sun Mars 


The Moon, who indicates the query, is in the 4th house, 
denoting land, in the star of Rahu in 6, denoting dispute. Moon is 
in the sub of Venus. Venus by nature is compromising and likes 
to avoid fighting and violence. Hence, there will be no hand-to- 
hand fight or bloodshed. 


Similarly, in all questions, the Ascendant should also be 
judged. The Ascendant is in constellation and sub of Rahu. Rahu 
is in the 6th house, in the constellation of Mercury and sub 
of Venus. Houses 6 and 8 denote the tenant and his going 
away while Venus shows peaceful atmosphere and land. 


If the tenant is to vacate and the querent is to regain 
possession of the land, the 8" house is to be connected to the 6th 
house also and the actual taking over will be in the conjoint period 
of the significators of the houses 6 and 8. 


The chart indicates some other matters also. Saturn in the 7th 
house reveals that the person who is for the time being in 
possession of the land is a cunning and calculative fellow, and it is a 
long drawn-out matter. Jupiter, a legal planet in 7 shows legal 
proceedings. As both the planets are in the constellation of lord of 6 
and sub of lord of 11, the querent must ultimately succeed. As mars, 
from 11th house aspects the dasanatha Rahu, there will be 
something happening, which will be surprising and dramatic. 


Rahu in 6. Moon in Arudra in the sub of Venus. Lord of 6 
Moon, has Jupiter and Saturn in Hastha, in the sub of Jupiter. 


65 


Kethu in Saravanam is in the sub of Mercury, lord of 8. No-planet 
in 8. Lord of 8 is Mercury. Rahu in Aslesha Venus Sub. It will be 
noticed that some of the planets are in Venus sub, lord of 4, 
which is the 11th house from the 6th denoting the tenant. Hence, 
this requires a detailed note. 


According to this horary figure, Rahu dasa, Venus Bhukthi, 
Rahu anthra operates up to 24-4-81. Rahu in the 6th house refers to 
the tenant, in the star of Mercury, lord of 8, denotes the tenant going 
out, the sub being Venus shows that the process is smooth. But 
then, Venus is lord of 11 from 6, denoting gain to the tenant. How 
are we to infer that Rahu in such a Venus sub will favour the 
querent? In this context, it is necessary to understand how the sub 
responds. The sub lord indicates matter by its lordship, occupation 
and nature (Karakathuam). From the lagna. Venus is lord of 4 as 
well as significator of 4. The 4th house from lagna indicates lands or 
buildings of querent. Here we are concerned only with lands. She is 
significator of 9 from lagna. The 9th house is the 12th from 10th. 
Taking the 7th house as the person with whom the querrent deals, 
10th house indicates the possessions, of the persons indicated by 
the house. When the 12th house to the 10th house operates, it 
shows loss of the possessions of the persons indicated by the 7th 
house. Venus by nature indicates partner in life, or conveyance. We 
are not concerned, with any of them. Venus who is the bhukthi lord, 
is in the constellation of Saturn in 7 as lord of 1 and 11, in the sub of 
Moon lord of 6 in 4. Venus being a significator of 1 and 7 is good 
and favourable to the querent, as a significator of 12 and 7 is 
favourable to the other person. This is a complication. 


The dasantha is in the sub of Venus, who is a significator of the 
4th house among others. When a planet is in the sub of another 
planet which is a benefic, in the bhukthi of the sub lord something 
must happen in favour of the querent. Since Venus plays a dual role, 
how are we to say that Venus will favour the querent in Rahu dasa? 
Venus is forming a dexter trine, which is the most beneficial 


aspect which can bring matters to perfection with the least effort. 
Another Rule is when ‘A’ dasa 'B' bhukthi operates and ‘A’ is a 
benefic, ‘A’ will give desirable results in 'A' anthra. But Rahu is in 
the sub of Venus. 


In a query regarding financial matters, let us say that the 
significators of the 24d house is in the sub of Venus, lord of 5 and 12 
to a Mithuna lagna native. It shows that as Venus is lord of 12 the 
native will lose money. As Venus is also lord of 5, the loss may be 
due to children, speculation, love affair etc, or as it is Venus, loss 
may be due to women, conveyance, etc. Thus the sub explains how 
the loss is sustained. In the same way, the dasanatha Rahu in the 
sub of Venus being a significator of the 4th house shows land and 
Rahu in 6 in the star of land of 8 shows the tenant going away. 
Since Venus has to play a dual role and is in good aspect to the 
dasanatha, Venus will toe the line of the dasanatha. As the anthra is 
also that of Rahu, Rahu is to give the most desirable results to the 
querent, in the bhukthi of Venus, who is the sub lord of Rahu. Venus 
will disappoint the tenant. Therefore, the querent should get 
possession of this land in Rahu dasa, Venus bhukthi, Rahu anthra, 
before 24th April, 1981. In this period when Sun transits in 
Sathabisha Rahu sub (as Venus aspects Rahu Venus sub has been 
rejected), on a Monday or Friday, Rahu or Venus star-day the 
querent should get possession of his land. This will be mostly on 
Friday, February 20, Poorvaphalaguni. 


How to go about the matter is the next question. The 11th 
house indicating realization of ambition is in Sagittarius, and Mars 
occupies the 11th house, There are no planets in any of the stars of 
Mars. Mars is a very strong significator of the 11th house in the sub 
of Rahu in 6, very good. Mars in the constellation of Sun in 10 
indicates grand success and a change in the present set up, as Sun 
is in 12 to Mars. Mars aspecting Rahu gives courage to 
the querent to take a bold action. 


67 


Whenever Mars is the sub lord of the 11th cusp and is a 
benefic, depending on the query, or is the significator of house, it will 
not rest content till the set purpose is achieved. Mars, in civil life, 
indicates police, use of force and audaciousness, for success to 
querent, as a significator of the 11th house. The ball set rolling on 
the week-days and star days of Mars will ensure success. As such 
the querent was asked to lodge a strong complaint with the police on 
the 30th December, 1980, which was a Tuesday coinciding with 
Chitra, and-the Thithi was Navami, (nobody in the normal 
circumstances would like to start anything new on Tuesday in this 
thithi) or take the law into his own hands and proceed. 


Anxiously awaiting the date, he lodged a complaint with the 
police on 30th December. On the 7th January or so he had the sad 
comment to offer that he was very much disappointed that the police 
had not initiated any action so far, to which the encouraging booster 
under which | took shelter now that 20th February was still very far 
away. On 11th January, it was communicated that the police had 
obtained an undertaking from the brother of the tenant that he would 
not interfere in the matter. Another brother was still at large. Day, 
passed on incipiently. All of a sudden, on 21st February 1981, the 
querent and a few farm labourers entered the land, harvested the 
standing crop and took possession of the land. There was nobody 
who could raise a finger against the querent. Nor did the tenant turn 
that side when the harvesting operation was going on. This is the 
story of how the querent got possession of this land, though the 
matter was hanging fire for the past three years. He could have 
embarked on such on an action in 1978 itself, but the planets gave 
him courage and forced the issue only in February 1981. in line with 
the adage that "there is a time for everything". 


GOOD LUCK! 


68 


ON BUYING A VEHICLE 


Jyothish Sastra is a vast and ancient science. It dates back to 
antiquity. It is divided into three branches (1) Sidhanta Sastra, (2) 
Hora Sastra (3) Samhita Sastra. Of course first two are the most 
important. Sidhanta Sastra is known as Astronomy dealing with 
heavenly bodies and Hora Sastra astrology recognizing their effects 
upon terrestrial affairs. But Hora Sastra is the most difficult and 
much less understood. Everybody is curious to know the unknown 
future and see what is destined for him. Astrology alone 
can aid him in this respect.. 


In India, when Astrology was fast, losing its hold, our revered 
Guruji Late Professor Krishnamurti laboured hard to make 
astrology as perfect a science as any other. He codified the 
principles enunciated in old texts and added much more material 
and method. He was the first to dwell elaborately on the efficacy 
of the nakshatras and their sub division. This has brought a 
revolution in predictive astrology. After years of deep research 
he discovered the influence of the star and "sub". 


A gentleman, who came to me, stated that he had borrowed 
some money from a Bank for purchasing a motor cycle and 
wanted to know whether he would buy the vehicle on the date 
fixed, 


On being asked, the querent gave the number 125 between 1 
and 249. The question was taken up for analysis at latitude 20° - 
30' N and longitude 86° - 28' E on 8-7-1980 at 9 a.m. (Indian 
Standard Time). 


Balance of Ravi Mahadasa at query: 4 years 5 months 25 days. 
For vehicle, the houses to be perused are 4, 9, 10 and 11. The 
significators of these bhavas, and will in their conjoint period, cause 
the event. 


69 


The significators are (1) the planets in the constellation of the 
occupants of 4, 9,10 and 11 - (2) the planets in houses 4, 9, 10 and 
11, (3) the planets in the constellations of lords of houses 
4, 9,10 and 11 (4) and the lord of houses 4, 9, 10 and 11. 


Chart 
Moon 
0-37-30 Sun 22-38-21 
VI 1-45 VIIO-0 Vans Mercury 
VIII 29-45 29-37-26 28-23-45 
IX 28-45 tage 
#125 
V 0-45 Date of judgement Rahu 
28-24-34 
8-7-1980 
Time of judgement 
9-00 am (IST) X 0-45 
Kethu paulnds : 20-30 Mars 5-04-48 
28-24-35 Longitude : 86-28 Jup 13-44-27 
Sat 28-29-45 
IV 29-45 Il 28-45 1129-45 XII 1-45 
Lagna 0-0 


Now we see that the 4th house is occupied by Kethu. The 
nakshatras Aswini, Moolam, Makham are ruled by Kethu. Mars is 
posited in Moolam. Jupiter is the owner of the fourth house. Sun and 
Mercury are posited in Jupiter's star. So Mars, Kethu, Jupiter, Sun, 
Mercury are the significators of the 4th house. The 9th house begins 
in Taurus 28°45' and extends upto Gemini 29°45'. Sun and Mercury 
are in the ninth bhava. Moon and Saturn are in Sun's star and Rahu 
is in Mercury's star. Venus is the owner of the 9th house. Jupiter 
alone is in Venus star. So Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn, Rahu, Venus 
and Jupiter are the significators of the 9th house. 


70 


The 10th house begins in Gemini 29°45' and ends in Leo 0-45". 
Rahu alone occupies the 10th bhava. There is no planet in Rahu's 
star. Mercury is the lord of the 10th house. Rahu is in 
Mercury's star Ashlesha. Hence Rahu and Mercury are the 
significators of the 10th bhava. 


The 11h house extends from Leo 0-45 to Virgo 1-45 Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn occupy the 11th bhava. None of the planets are 
placed in the constellation of Saturn. Kethu is in Mars star 
Dhanishta. Sun and Mercury are posited in the constellation of 
Jupiter. Sun is the owner of the 11th house. Moon and Saturn are in 
Sun's star. So, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Sun, Mercury, Kethu are the 
significator of the 11th bhava. 


When so many planets signify a matter, then Guruji has given 
a most simple, sure and scientific method of finding out the 
strongest significators which can cause the event to fructify in 
their conjoint period in the Vimshottari dasa system. This is the 
Theory of Ruling Planets. 


The day is Tuesday governed by mars. The sign transited by 
Moon is Taurus owned by Venus. The constellation transited by 
Moon is Krithika ruled by Sun. The Lagna is Leo owned by Sun. 
Therefore the ruling planets, are Mars, Venus and Sun. Among the 
ruling planets, the Sun is the strongest significator and so it will give 
vehicle during its period. 


At the time of judgment, Sun Dasa balance is 4 years 5 
months 25 days. Also Sun Dasa, Rahu Bhukthi and Saturn Anthra 
balance is 0 years 0 month, 12 days only. Saturn is not strong. After 
Saturn Anthra, Mercury Anthra will begin after 12 days pass. 
Mercury is in the star of Jupiter, lord of 4 (vehicle) and 6 (borrowing) 
and sub of Venus, Vahana karaka. Mercury also aspects the 4th. 
Sun and Rahu, dasa and Bhukthi lords, are the star and sub lords of 
the 4th cusp. Mercury is conjoined with Sun and both aspect the 4th. 


71 


While we find Mercury anthra in Sun dasa, Rahu bhukthi quite 
fruitful, Mercury is retrograde till 11th August. Thereafter only the 
vehicle can be purchased. The day would be when the 11th lord 
and also the lord of the dasa Sun, crosses the 11th cusp and the 
star of Kethu placed in the 4th house i.e. 18th August 1980. On that 
day, the Moon will be in Anthra lord Mercury's rasi Mithuna in 
Bhukthi lord, Rahu's star. The 4th lord, Jupiter, will transit the star of 
anthra lord. Mercury, and in the sub of lord of 4th in conjunction 
with Venus, lord of 2nd (acquisition). The 4th lord, significantly, is 
close to the natal position of Rahu, bhukthi lord Rahu too transits 
favourably in the 11th house in Sun's sign simha in the star of 
Venus and sub of Sun, dasa lord, in close conjunction to the 
radical, position of Jupiter, the 4th lord. 


Really the querent purchased the vehicle on August 18 exactly 
as predicted | was thrilled to hear the prediction, based solely 
on the principles of Krishnamurti Padhdhati, coming true to the date. 


GOOD LUCK! 


72 


THEFT ARTICLES REVEALED THROUGH 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 


) 


One of my consultants, a resident of Erode, had written to me 
that he had lost some articles valued around Rs.4000/- and was 
very anxious to know whether he would regain the same. 
He had also furnished a number '211' between 1 and 249. 


A. Details : Number given 211 (1 to 249) 


Nature of query: | have lost some articles by theft. Kindly 
predict the nature of the articles lost by theft, the description of 
the person who had stolen them and whether and when | 
would regain the lost property. 


Date of Judgment 2-10-1980 
Time of Judgment 9.20 a.m. 1ST at Madras 
Ayanamsa 23° - 29' 
(K.S. Krishnamurti) 


Balance in 'Jupiter" dasa at the time of judgment 6y-6m-7d 


B. ruling planets 
Day lord Jupiter (Thursday) 
Lagna Lord Mars (Scorpio) 
Lagna Star Lord Jupter (Visakam) 
Moon Rasi Lord Mercury (Gemini) 
Moon Star Lord Jupter (Punarvasu) 
Lagna Sub Lord Rahu 
Moon Sub Lord Venus 


73 


C. Chart 


: i. he 7 nm 32 
-48- 12-48-32 11-48-32 ~48- 
tas ¢ Moon 27-54 
7 
pas 4-48-32 
4-53-20 Rahu 23-51 
Nirayana horary Chart 
for No. 211 
Kethu 23-51 ee 
XII 
4-48-32 4-53-20 
Jup 1-58 
Mars 29-23 Sat 7-50 
“ i 45 Xx IX 12-48-32 VIII 
oie 11-48-32 | Merc.9-15 | 10-48-32 
Sun 15-37 


D.Planetary Positions 


74 


Planets 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Kethu 


Star Lord Sub Lord 


Moon Jupiter 
Jupiter Venus 
Jupiter Sun 
Rahu Jupiter 
Sun Jupiter 
Kethu Sun 
Sun Venus 
Mercury Mars 
Mars Mars 


E. Cuspal Positions: 


Cusps SignLord Star Lord Sub Lord 

Acendant Saturn Mars Sun 

H] Jupiter Saturn Sun 

Vv Mercury Rahu Rahu 

VI Moon Saturn Saturn 

VI Sun Kethu Mars 

Vill Mercury Moon Moon 

Xl Jupiter Kethu Jupiter 

XIl Saturn Sun Saturn 
Analysis: 


The lagna indicates the querent. The 7th house denotes the 
thief and theft itself. The 2nd house from the lagna indicates the 
liquid assets or movable goods and the bank balance of the 
querent. The 6th house indicates recovery of the lost property (12th 
to the thief's Lagna) and the 11th shows fulfillment of desire). 


The 8th house, being the 2nd from the 7nd. (Thief and theft) 
indicates the stolen property, the 5th house the theifs gain (11th 
to the 7th) and the 12th his gain and success.. 


The description of the thief can be judged from the 7th cusp 
sub lord and its significators. If the 7th house significator be 
Mercury, he is very young, It Venus, a youthful but yet young 
female. Mars shows him to be full of age, Jupiter of middle age and 
Saturn old people, If it is Sun, he is very young and well built. If it is 
Moon, then the age of the thief be that of the querent. The sex of 
the thief can also be found by the sub lord of the 7th cusp and its 
significators. 


If the sub lord of the 7th cusp is significator of lagna, then the 
thief will be a well known person who frequents the house and one 
who has already created impression for honesty. 


15 


If it is connected to 2nd house, the thief will be one of the family 
members. If it is connected to 3rd house, then the neighbours 
younger brothers or messenger. If it be connected to 4th house, he is 
one who resides in the same house or compound, if it is connected 
to 5th house, the thief will be one of his own children or an artist who 
frequents the house or a person with whom the querent has 
developed love or having some pleasure pursuits. If it is connected to 
6th house, the thief must be the servant. If it is connected to 8th 
house, the thief will be the gardener, washerman or sweeper. If the 
sub lord of the 7th cusp is a significator of the 9th house, then the 
thief is a stranger and of a different caste and a religious person in 
disguise, if it is a significator of 10th house, the thief is one in 
respectable circumstances or a businessman. If it is connected to 
11th house, then the thief will be a friend or elder brother. If the 
significator of the 7th house connected to 12th house, poor fellow, a 
person in miserable condition and one who always indulges in 
stealing. 


Recovery of the lost property: 


If the significators of houses 2, 6 and 11 (counted from the 
house indicating the person whose property has been lost) agree 
with the ruling planets of the day, the property will be recovered. If 
the ruling planets are connected to houses 5, 8 and 12. it is lost 
once for all. The time of recovery of the lost property will be during 
the conjoint period of the significators of houses 2, 6 and 11. 


With this let us proceed with the above Horary chart for the 
benefit of the readers of this esteemed magazine "Astrology and 
Athrishta" and also for Krishnamurti padhdhati st udents. 


In the Horary chart discussion, the sublord of the lagna is Sun. 
Sun is also lord of 7* (thief and Theft) house. Sun is posited in the 8* 
house. It is in the star of Moon in 5 and also a significator of 7* 
house. Sun in the sub of Jupiter, lord of 2 in the 7* house. Hence the 
sub lord of the lagna clearly reveals that the nature of the query is 
related to the theft. 


76 


The querent had asked me to predict the nature of the articles 
stolen. The stolen articles are indicated by the 8* house, because 
the 8* house is 2nd to 7* (theft). The sub lord of the 8* cusp is 
Moon, Moon posited in the 5* house. Moon is in the constellation of 
Jupiter and in the sub of Venus. Jupiter denotes gold and Venus 
gold ornaments. Venus also denotes textiles, some fancy goods, 
garments and articles of constant use sufch as radio, fan, watch et. 
Hence | concluded that the querent should have lost articles like gold 
and gold ornaments, textiles, radio, watch, etc, and the same was 
conveyed to the querent through a letter on 2-10-1980. 


| had also informed him that the thief would be a person not 
known to him, because the sub lord of the 7* cusp is Mars, a 
masculine planet, in a male sign. The sub lord is also posited in 
the 9* house. | came to the conclusion that the thief would be a 
male and also a stranger belonging to another place and of a 
different caste and a stranger completely. 


Whether the articles will be recovered? 


The sub lord of the 2nd cusp is Sun. Sun is in the 8* house and 
is in the star of Moon in the 5th house . Hence the 2nd cusp sub lord 
is not promising the recovery. 


The sub lord of the 6™cusp is Saturn. Saturn is in the 7t 
as lord of 1 and 12. Saturn is in the star of Sun in 8th house 
. Hence, the 6* cusp sub lord also not promising the recovery. 


The 11th cusp sub lord is Jupiter. Jupiter is lord of 2 and 11. But 
Jupiter is posited in the 7* house is in the constellation of Sun in the 
8th and Jupiter is in his own sub also. Hence all the sub lords of 
houses, 2, 6 and 11 are signifiying strongly the houses 5, 8 and 12. | 
came to the conclusion that the articles will not be recovered. 


In Ruling Planets also Jupiter and Mars came as stronger Ruling 


Planets. Jupiter and Mars are well connected to houses 5, 8 and 12 
and not connected to houses 2, 6 and 11. 


77 


At the time of judgment, Jupiter dasa was in operation. Jupiter 
dasa extends upto 9-4-87 Jupiter in the 7* and in the star of Sun in 
8th and Jupiter is also in his own sub. The Bhukthi of Venus 
operates upto 21-10-81. Venus, lord of 4 and 9, is posited on the 
cusp of 7* (1° - orb) and is in the star of Kethu in the 12* house. 
Venus is also in the sub of Sun in 8 signifying 5* house. Hence 
Jupiter dasa and Venus bhukthi are well connected to houses 5, 8 
and 12 and hence | wrote to him without any hesitation that the lost 
property and articles will not be recovered at all. 


The querent wrote to me in reply on 15-10-1980, that the theft took 
place on the midnight of 14-9-80, i.e. at the time when Jupiter dasa 
Venus Bhukthi, Jupiter Anthra and Venus Sookshma was operating. 
Mars, Jupiter, Venus are very strong significators of houses 5, 8 and 
12. He had also added that the following articles were lost: (1) Gold 
ring (2) Wrist Watch (3) Pants and Shirts (4) Tour bag (5) Slippers 
and (6) A bunch of Keys. He further added that in spite of his 
vigorous searching and lodging a police complaint no positive 
information had been received so far. 


It is needless to say that such an accurate prediction can 
only be possible by applying the Krishnamurti Padhdhati system. 


With pranams to our "Guruji" 


GOOD LUCK! 


78 


CHILD BIRTH AND THE WONDERFUL 
BEHAVIOUR OF SUB 


Child birth is a sensational and sensitive subject. The theory of 
pregnancy has volumes to say about the development of child in 
mother's womb. In modern days, this science has made further 
strides producing test tube child. No doubt the present generation is 
thus thrilled about all this development connected with pregnancy 
and procreation. 


Now, the question is: Can the medical science exactly find out when 
the actual birth will take place and what will be the sex of the 
expected baby? The answer is "No". A mother develops labour pain 
but this does not signify that child birth is immediately assured. 
Again as a second step, the same mother is admitted into a 
maternity ward. Here also in most cases the birth is delayed and 
the anxious mother is even sent back home with instructions, to 
report back after a week or ten days. Finally the anxious mother 
returns to the hospital at the scheduled time. Alas! The birth takes 
place either in the natural way or resorting to major or minor 
surgical operation medically termed as cesarean. 


All this goes to prove that medical science, strictly speaking, has yet 
to develop proper biological diagnosis and come out with crystal 
clear assurance as to when actually the birth will take place to 
forecast in advance whether the struggling mother really needs a 
caesarean operation. There is also no proper system to study 
whether the expected baby will be male or female. So in a nutshell 
the significance connected with date, time and manner 

of birth still poses an interesting and intriguing study. 


Now, it is here the science of astrology comes into play. While the 

medical man has to examine the expectant mother, the astrologer 

who has not at all seen the subject and is far away from the scene, 
comes out with a proper solution. He is in a position 


79 


to say when the birth will take place and what will he the sex of the 
child and whether a safe delivery is assured or there is need for 
surgical operation. 


We have inherited a treasure of knowledge regarding pregnancy 
and child birth from our ancient rishis who were well versed in 
astrology and medical science. Our ancestors thought that astrology 
and medical science were interlinked and only a person well versed 
in astrology could become a good physician. It is said of 

ippocrates, the 'Father of Medicine’ that he once remarked, "A 
physician without a knowledge of astrology has no right to call 
himself a physician”. 


Whether it is Astrology or Astronomy, Biology or Botany. Chemistry 
of Criminology or for that matter any other science, our ancients had 
left a great fund of knowledge. It is indeed a pity that the modern 
world of science does not care to make the best use of the 
teachings of ancient India known as the cradle of culture, civilization 
and human progress, A rigorous research and development in 
conjunction with the past and the present is an absolute necessity in 
the interest of human welfare and posterity. 


Our revered late Guruji diligently made a scientific and analytical 
study of the astrological works of the past and the present and all his 
life long research culminated in the discovery of the exact efficacy of 
the star and sub. It is this theory of 'sub' that crowned him with 
success, because it is the sub that is the deciding factor in the 
fructification of events. Well, what is this sub? The zodiac is spatially 
divided into 27 constellations and each constellation is subdivided 
into 9 parts in the manner of Vimshottari dasa time division. This sub 
divisions is called the SUB. For details the readers are requested to 
go through K.p Rader No.IIl Advance _ tellar Astrology (Theoretical) 
pages 59 to 105. 


80 


Now, to come to the subject of child birth, let me narrate my 
recent experience in the application of the sub for the benefit of the 
esteemed readers. 


On 15-4-1980, exactly at 8.40 p.m. a friend of 'mine called on 
me at my residence earnestly requesting me to solve his problem. 
| observed that he was very cautious and did not even divulge to me 
the reason for his sudden call which made me to feel as if he 
wanted to test me. Anyway, as the gentleman was in agony and in 
great depression, | asked him to furnish any number within 1 to 249 
and soon the answer came as 117. In accordance with the 
principles as enunciated in Krishnamurti Padhdhati a horary chart 
with a view of finding out what really was in his mind and what the 
astrological portent were, was prepared for the Ascendant 
corresponding to the number given which is reproduced below: 


TINY 
VII 17-46-40 aa eaeo Venus 17-42 X 22-38 
Sun 2-18 = 
Mercury Moon 8-58 IX 22-38 
7-55 
VI 23-35 NoWt7 XI 22-38 
Kethu 2-50 Taken up for consideration 
on 15-4-80 
at 8-40 p.m. | Rahu 2-50 | 
At Madras Avanamsa 
V 22-38 ; ; : Mars 2-54 
Krishnamurthi Padhdhati Jup (R) 6-55 
oreo: XII 23-38 
Sat (R) 27-50 
Asc 
IV 22-38 Ill 23-38 I] 23-33 17-46-40 


81 


Ruling planets 


Day Lord Mars 
Moon Sign Lord Mars 
Moon Star Lord Kethu 
Ascendant Lord Mars 
Ascendant Star Lord Saturn 


Planetary Position 


Planet Star Sub Lord 
Ascendant Hastham Mercury 
Sun Aswathi Venus 
Moon Aswathi Jupiter 
Mars Makam Venus 
Mercury Uthrattathi Kethu 
Jupiter (R) Makam Rahu 
Venus Rohini Saturn 
Saturn (R) Uthram Moon 
Rahu Makam Venus 
Kethu Dhanishta Venus 


Now let us analyse the chart. The moon reflects the mind of the 
person querying. It is in the 8* house. Moon is lord of 11 and is 
posited in the constellation of Kethu in 5, and in the Sub of Jupiter in 
11. Jupiter is retrograde and is the lord of 4 and 7.Moon thus 
signifies houses 8, 5, 11, 7 and 4. | told him boldly without the 
slightest hesitation that, the gentleman's anxiety pertains to child 
birth and he is terribly worried about his wife's safe delivery. The 
moment | uttered the words. 'Child Birth' he was astonished. | said to 
him that there is nothing extraordinary about what | told him and that 
the Krishnamurti Padhdhati system never fails. Now moon is in the 
8* house and is in the sub of retrograde Jupiter. Retrogression 
means retardation or blocking. |, therefore, assured that the subject 
was passing through considerable hardships due to delay in delivery 
and thus making 


82 


everyone anxious. My friend in fact became confused and said that 
my statement was fully correct. He admitted that his wife was earlier 
taken to the maternity clinic on development of severe pain but 
subsequently returned home causing much anxiety to everybody at 
home. 


Well, all that my friend now wanted is the correct answer 
to the following queries: 


1. Whether his wife will have a safe delivery. 
2. Time when the birth will take place. 


3. What will be the sex of the baby. 


According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, the houses to be 
investigated in connection with progeny are 2,5,11. Fulfillment of 
ambition or desire comes under the 11th house and the sub is 
the deciding factor. In this chart the sub lord of 11th cusp is sun. 


It is also conjoined with the Moon which also owns the 11th house. 
Moon is connected to the 5* being in the constellation of Kethu in 5*; 
it is also conjoined in the 8* with lord of 12, Sun. Moon occupies the 
sub of Jupiter 11 and is also aspected by Jupiter, So | predicted a 
safe delivery after a period of hospitalization. 


Now to come out with correct answers for the other queries, let us 
proceed further and examine the houses 2, 5 and 11. Lord of 2 is 
Venus and no planet is posited in its star. So take Venus. Kethu is 
in the 5* house. The planets posited in Kethu star are Sun, Moon 
and Jupiter. The planets in the 11th house are upiter. Rahu and 
Mars. No planet is in Rahu star. So take Rahu as a significator. 
Kethu is in Mars star. So, summing up, the significant planets are 
Venus, Rahu, Sun, Moon, Kethu and Jupiter. 


According to Vimshottari Dasa system the subject is passing 


through Kethu Dasa, Jupiter Bhukthi, Mars Anthra period and 
Rahu Sookshma from 14-4-80 to 17-4-80. 


83 


A comparative study of the ruling planets also reveal that 
Kethu, Mars, and Rahu are strong significators. Further - sub of 
all these three planets are one and the same i.e. Venus. 


Now the previous anthra period was that of Moon which is 
stationed in the sub of retrograde Jupiter that was the reason 
why upto 13-4-80child birth did not take place. My friend agreed 
with my observation. 


Taking into account the fact the Rahu and Mars are strong 
significators and Moon will be transiting the constellation of Sun, 
the Sub Lord of XI, | boldly predicted that the birth will occur 
in Rahu Sookshama i.e. on 17-4-80. Actually the birth took pl 
ace on 17-4-80 at 5.30 p.m. which was immediately intimated 
to me over phone. 


Further, in view of the fact the planet involved was Mars, | 
also predicted that the subject would have to undergo slight outer 
operation which also came out true, in tune with the function 
of Sun, the sub of 11th cusp. 


As regards the child's sex, | looked to the 5* cusp. It is ruled by 
Venus as the sub lord. Venus is a female planet and also 
occupies afemale sign. The 5 and 11th cusps also fall in fem 
ale signs. Venus is also deposited in a female planet's star. 
On this basis, | told my friend that a female child would be 
born. It came true. 


Thus all my predictions came 100% true and my friend 
congratulated me warmly. 


Inreply, |said that there was nothing very extraordinary about 
the prediction and that it was based on calculations and teachings 
of Guruji. Thanks should, therefore, go to my great Guruji. 


With deep pranam to Guruji! 


GOOD LUCK! 


HOW THE RULING PLANETS WORK 


The method of prognosticating a future event by the stellar 
system of Krishnamurti Padhdhati is indeed unique. The method 
properly applied yields accurate results. The late Professor 
Krishnamurti, the master genius in astrology, also discovered the 
efficacy of the Ruling Planets which help an astrologer to predict a 
future event with precision to the date, hour and minute. 


A child birth in our family was expected in the month of November 
1980 some time during the first week. | was anxious to know in 
advance the date of delivery so as to make the necessary 
arrangements. | applied the method of Ruling Planets for the 
purpose. Indeed | have been a student of the stellar system 

since five years. Details are given below: 


Latitude: 13°N 
Longitude 29°-51E 
Date 21-10-1980 
Day Tuesday, Mars 
Star Poorvabhadram (Jupiter) 
Rasi Aquarius (Saturn) 
Lagna Taurus (Number 23) Venus 
Star Sun 
Sub lord Rahu 
Aspects : 


a. Jupiter in the fifth house aspects the horary lagna 
b. The same Jupiter aspects the XI th cusp 
c. Mars aspects the moon (4th aspect) 


d. Mars also aspects the horary lagna. 
Analysis: 


The lagna coincides with a fixed sigh. So the delivery of child 
would not be immediate. As the lagna receives Jupiter's beneficial 


85 


rays the delivery would be normal. The ruling planets are Rahu, 
Venus, Sun, Saturn, Jupiter and Mars. Study the longitude of the 
Sun. The Sun traverses in Rahu star upto 6* November. hereafter it 
moves to Jupiter star in Libra sign. Rahu is posited in Cancer which 
is 12th to the 5* cusp. So Rahu would not speed up the event. 
Jupiter is an occupant of the 5* bhava. So it is logical to decide that 
Sun's transit in Jupiter star (Visaka) would bring the matter to 
fruition. That period of transit is between 6-11 -80 and 19-11-80. 


| shall pinpoint the date which with reference to Moon. The lagna 
sub lord is Rahu. So one would look for Rahu's star in the signs of 
the ruling planets. But Rahu is posited in Cancer. So it deputizes for 
Moon the depositor. But Moon is placed in Aquarius. Mars in Scorpio 
aspects it strongly. Moon is changeable by nature and reflects the 
strength of its depositor or aspector. Here mars is its aspector. So 
Mars comes to the picture as a strong fructifier of the event. As 
Saturn is another strong ruling planet, Mars and Saturn together ina 
rasi should be excited by the Moon in a stellar position. Two such 
sensitive stellar position are as below: (a 9-11 -80, Sunday - 
Anuradha in Scorpio (b 15-11 -80, Saturday - Dhanishta in 
Aquarius. The date of 15-11-80 was predicted in advance. 


The Sun's longitude in the Moon sub corroborates the days as 
15-1-80 Saturday, Dhanishta. Indeed, the birth took place on 
15-11-80, Saturday, when Libra was rising in the east. 


It is an illustration of how aspects on ruling planets modify their 
nature and function. Glory to the theory of scientific stellar astrology 


propounded by the greatest of our astrological genius in recent 
times. 


GOOD LUCK! °: 


86 


ON FOREIGN TRAVEL 


(AA gentleman has called on me on 4-4-1980 to know if any foreign 
travel was promised to him or not as per the well- known Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati System. He further added that he was taking necessary steps to 
go to the Middle-East and that it would take not more than 4 to 5 months for 
him to go. He therefore wanted to know the exact period of travel. He gave a 
number 110, between 1 and 249. As | could not take up the matter 
immediately, he was requested to come the next day (5-4-1980) 


The matter was taken up for judgment at 7-36 p.m. (IST) on 5-4-1980, the 
day being Saturday. The Number given was 110. The Horary Chart for the 
lagna - Kanya 7.0'-0" according to the Krishnamurti Padhdhati method 
corresponding to the Number (110at 7-36 p.m. on 5-4-1980. Saturday is 
reproduced below: 


B. Horary Chart: 
Sun 22°28' VIII 6-58" IX 7°58° X 6°58’ 
VII 7*00' Ven 8°16’ 
Mercury 
24°54’ 
VI 6°58' X1 5°58" 
Kethu 
3°21' 
Mars (R) 2°24' 
Bae, Rah 3°21' 
XII 6°58" 
Jup (R) 7°25’ 
Saturn(R)28°28’ 
Moon ite 
IV 6°58' 17-42' 11 6°58' | 7°00'00 
Ill 7°58" 


87 


Number 


Date of Judgement 


Day of Judgement 


Place of Judgement 


Time of Judgmenet 


Sidereal Time 


Balance of Mercury dasa 


Planet or 
Cusp 


Sun 

Moon 
Mars (R) 
Mercury 
Jupiter (R) 
Venus 
Saturn (R) 
Rahu 
Kethu 
Third 
Ninth 
Twelfth 


Nirayana 
Position 
352°-28' 
227°-42’ 
122°-24' 
324°-54’ 
127°-25 
38°-16" 
148°-28' 
123°-21’ 
303°-21' 
217°-58’ 
37°-58' 
126°-58’ 


Balance Mercury Dasa 
Mercury Bhukthi 


Mars Anthra 


Then Rahu Anthra 
Jupiter Anthra From 25-8-80 to 21-12-80 
Saturn Anthra From 21-12-80 to 8-5-81 


(D Before proceeding any further, let us analyse the position of 
Moon, the reflector of the mind. Moon is lord of 11 (realization of 
desire) in 3 (short travel and signifying away from residence). She is 
in the star and sub of Mercury, the Karaka for travels. Mercury is 
lord of 1 and 10 (profession, business, trade etc in 


110 
5-4-1980 
Saturday 
Bangalore 
7-36 p.m. 
8h-12m-35s 
15y-08m-6d 
Star Lod 
Mercury 
Mercury 
Kethu 
Jupiter 
Kethu 
Sun 
Sun 
Kethu 
Mars 
Saturn 
Sun 
Kethu 
15y-08m-06d 
01y-01m-03d 
10d till 15-4-80 


Sub Lord 


Moon 
Mercury 
Venus 
Mercury 
Rahu 
Venus 
Mars 
Sun 
Venus 
Kethu 
Venus 
Rahu 


From 15-4-1980 to 25 8-1980 


the star of Jupiter in 12. Moon is aspected by Venus, lord of 9 in 9. 
Venus is in the star of Sun, lord of 12 and own sub. Hence it is 
amply clear that the question is about travel out of India. 


The 12thcusp denotes foreign travel and new environments. If 
foreign travel is to be promised, then the sub lord of the 12th should 
be in a star which is the significator of the 3rd (away from 
residence),or 9 (long journey) or 12 (new surroundings). 


In our present case, the sub lord of the 12th is Rahu placed is in the 
star of Kethu. Kethu represents Mercury by being conjoined with it. 
Mercury is in the star of Jupiter, an occupant of 12. Kethu 
represents Mars and Saturn by being aspected by them. Kethu 
represents Saturn more strongly since it is aspected by, and posited 
in the sign of, Saturn. Saturn is in 12. Mars is lord of 3 conjoined 
with Jupiter and Saturn, both in 12. Saturn is in the star of Sun, lord 
of 12. Saturn aspects Venus, lord of 9 in 9 in the star of Sun, lord of 
12. Hence the star lord of 12th cusp sub lord, being a significator of 
3, 9 and 12 foreign travel is definitely promised to the querent. 


(E) The significations are: 


Third - Occupant-Moon 
No planet in its star 
Lord is Mars. Rahu conjoined mars and Kethu 
aspected by mars. 


Kethu in star of Mars. 

No planet in star of Rahu. 

Mars, Jupiter and Rahu in the star of Kethu. 
Therefore, the significators of the third cusp are 
Moon, Mars, Jupiter Rahu and Kethu. 


Ninth - Occupant and Lord is Venus. No planet in the star 
of Venus. Therefore the significator of the ninth 
cusp is Venus. 


Twelfth - Occupants are Jupiter and Saturn. 


89 


Mercury in the star of Jupiter. 

No planet in the star of Saturn. 

But Kethu in Saturn sign. Mars, Rahu and 

Jupiter in Kethu Star. Lord is Sun. Rahu is in the sign of 
Sun. No planet in the star of Rahu. Venus and 

Saturn are in the star of Sun. 

Therefore, the significators of the twelfth cusp are 

Sun, mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu 

and Kethu. 


Hence the significators of houses 3, 9 and 12 
are Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, S 
aturn, Rahu and Kethu. 


(F) To avoid confusion in choosing fruitful significators, the 
ruling planets come into play. The ruling planets are those planets 
which rule the moment of judgment of the horary chart, i.e. in 
our case at 7-36 p.m. on 5-4-1980, Saturday. 


Day Lord Saturn 
Lagna Lord Venus 
Lagna Star Rahu 
Moon Lord Mars 
Moon Star Mercury 


Kethu is conjoined with Mercury and in the sign of Saturn. 
Therefore take Kethu also. 


Therefore, the ruling planets are Mars, Mercury, Venus, S 
aturn, Rahu and Kethu. Saturn aspects lagna and lagna lord 
by means of which it becomes considerably strong as a ruling pl 
anet in spite of the fact that it is only the day lord. 


Let us consider the ruling planets one by one, studying their 
sub-positions. 


Mars - In Sub of Venus, lord of 9 in 9. Venus is in star of Sun, 
lord of 12. Therefore, Mars is favourable. 


90 


Mercury - In sub of Mercury, i.e. in own sub. It is in the star of 
Jupiter in 12. This is favourable. 


Venus - In own sub, lord of 9 in 9 the star of Sun, lord of 12. 
Therefore, Venus is also favourable. 


Saturn - In sub of Mars which is in the star of Kethu, discussed 
previously and found favourable. 


Rahu - In sub of Sun lord of 12. Sun is in star of Mercury, lord of 1 
and 10 and 6. Even though Sun, the sub lord of Rahu is a 
significator of 12 (by owing 12, we find that the star lord (Mercury 
of this sub lord (Sun) is not positioned in a house connected to 
foreign travel. Therefore, Rahu is considered unfavourable 
and dropped. 


Kethu - In the sub of Venus. Venus lord of 9 in 9, in the star of Sun, 
lord of 12. Therefore Kethu is also favourable. 


Hence, the favourable planets found common from amongst the 
significators and Ruling are Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn and 
Kethu. 


(G Mercury Dasa, Mercury Bhukthi is already on with a balance of 
ly-Im-3d. In this, Mars anthra has a balance of 10 days i.e. until 
15-4-80. Of course, nothing can happen in a matter of just 10 days. 
Next is Rahu anthra. We have found that Rahu is not fruitful and so 
Rahu anthra can be dropped. Next is the anthra of Jupiter, a 
significator but not a Ruling planet. Therefore Jupiter is also 
dropped. Then we have Saturn anthra. Saturn is a significator by 
being posited in 12, in the star of Sun, lord 12. Saturn, we have 
found, is also a strong ruling planet. Therefore, Saturn anthra is 
chosen. 


Hence the period of travel will be Mercury Dasa, Mercury Bhukthi 
Saturn Anthra, i.e. from 21-12-1980 to 8-5-1981. 


In Saturn Anthra, the Sookshma has to be that of Kethu, Venus or 
Mars. 


91 


(a) Kethu sookshma - from 2-2-81 to 10-2-81. During this 
period Sun transits in the stars of Moon and Mars (9s 19° - 28' to 
9s 27° - 43') 

(6) Venus Sookshma - from 10-2-81 to 3-3-81 During this 
period Sun transits in the stars of Mars and Rahu (9s 27° - 34' to 
10s 18°-43') 


(c) Mars Sookshma - from 21 -3-81 to 29-3-81. During this 
period Sun transits in the star of Saturn (11s 06° - 41' to 11s 14° 
-36') 

Which Sookshma do we have to choose? 


We find that Saturn, the delaying planet, aspects the 9* and 
Venus, lord of 9. Saturn will thus delay the travel. More so, since 
Saturn is a significator of 12 and is also a strong ruling planet, as 
explained before. Therefore, Saturn will delay the journey until Venus 
Sookshma is over. When this is the case, we are left with 
Mars Sookshma. Mars is a significator and a ruling planet, by being 
Moon Rasi Lord. 


Therefore, the period of travel will be between 21 -3-1981 and 
29-3-1981. i.e. during Mercury dasa, Mercury Bhukthi, Saturn 
Anthra, Mars Sookshma. 


During this period, Sun transits in Saturn star and this is 
favourable. 


Hence the period of travel will be between 21-3-1981 and 
28-3-1981. ° 


92 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI - 
A UNIQUE PREDICTIVE METHOD 


A young businessman of Delhi wrote to us requesting to tell him 
something about the probability of his marriage. He suggested 
Number 105 within 249. 


The matter was taken up for examination on the 8th September 
1978, Friday at 9-21 p.m. (1ST) at Pali. The Horary chart was 
prepared with the aid of ‘Tables of Houses" and "Mahabala's 
Nirayana Advance Ephemeris". According to the method 
enunciated in Krishnamurti Padhdhati Readers, the number "105" 
corresponds to 29° -13' 20" of Simha which is the lagna of the 
horary chart. 


Number : 105- 


Date 8th September 1978 
Day Friday 
Time : 9-21 p.m. (1ST) 
Place Pali (Rajasthan) 
Chart 
Vill 
27-21'24" | 1X 27°48" | X 29°05" 
Keth 3°49’ 
vil XI 0°12’ 
29°13'20" Jupiter 
VI0°34" 7°10'46" 
XII 0"34' 
; Merc. 4°57‘ 
te Sat. 12“03' 
Sun 22"11' 
Asc. 29-13'20" 
IV 29°05’ | 1 27°4g: | Rahu 3°49" 
Moon Venus 7°5|_ ‘|! 27°21" 
3°40" Mars 29°05 


93 


Planetary and Cuspal Positions 


Planet-Cusp Rasi Lord Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Sun Venus Saturn 
Moon Mars Saturn Saturn 
Mars Mercury Mars Saturn 
Mercury Sun Kethu Mars 
Jupiter Moon Saturn Mercury 
Venus Venus Rahu Rahu 
Saturn Sun Kethu Mercury 
Rahu Mercury Sun Saturn 
Kethu Jupiter Saturn Saturn 

Il Cusp Mercury Mars Jupiter 
Vil Saturn Jupiter Sun 

Xl Moon Jupiter Moon 


The Moon is assumed, in Astrology, to reflect the mind of the 
consultant. Here, in this chart, Moon is deposited in Scorpio, in the 
star and sub of Saturn. Saturn is the lord of the house of marriage 
7th. It is deposited in the star of Kethu, and Kethu is the sole 
occupant of the 7th. In this way, we see that Moon is well 
connected with the 7th house, hence the query is verified. 


To see whether marriage is promised or not, the sub lord of the 7th 
cusp is to be examined. Marriage comes off only if the sub lord of 
the 7th cusp is deposited in the star of a planet which signifies the 
2nd or 7th or 11th house. 


Now, in the horary chart, the sub lord of the 7th cusp is seen to be 
Sun. The Sun is posited in Venus star, in 2 and also conjoined with 
Saturn lord of 7. So Sun is connected to 2nd and 7th house. So 
marriage is surely promised. 


After completing the calculations, the judgement was made at 9-51 
p.m. on the very same day. At that moment, the day lord was Venus 
as it was Friday and Moon was in Scorpio. So, the Moon sign lord 
was Mars. Moon was transitting in Anuradha star owned by Saturn. 
So the Moon star lord was Saturn. Ascendant 


94 


rising was aries (Mesha) and the star was Bharani. So, the 
Ascendant sign and Ascendant star lods were Mars an Venus 
respectively. In this way, the ruling planets were: 


Day Lord : Venus 
Moon Sign Lord : Mars 
Moon Star and Sub Lord : Saturn 
Ascendant Sign lord : Mars 
Ascendant Star Lord : Venus 


Mars and Venus were the significators of the 2nd being the 
occupants of that house. (Mars in its own star.) The 11th was 
signified by Jupiter and Moon (which also signified the 7th being 
in the star of the 7th lord.) Mercury, Saturn and Kethu were the 
strongest significators of the 7*. Venus, the Kalathra Karaka, was in 
the star of Rahu, agent of lord of 2. Venus alone occupied the 'sub- 
sub' of Kethu strongly signifying 7th by occupation by house, star 
and sub. 


In this way, it was very easy to predict the probable time of 
marriage. We selected Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukthi, Venus anthra 
and Guru Sookshma for marriage. 


The consultant was informed accordingly. In the second week 
of June '79 | received a beautiful invitation card in which the 
date for the marriage of the above consultant was mentioned 
as 17th July. 


This clearly proves the exactness of the Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati. 


GOOD LUCK!: 


95 


FREE FROM DEBTS 


A lady, who was perturbed by the heavy debts she had incurred, 
desiring to know whether she will be able to clear off the loans and 
be free from debts, gave No. 12. It was taken up for analysis at 4-23 
p.m. on Wednesday, the 30 January, 1980, at Madras. 


Chart 


BALANCE OF JUPITER DASA 6Y 11M 16D 


XIE. 11°4'43"| | 4624390" | 45°4'agn| Hl 12°4'43" 
Moon 27°32) 
Ven 23°53’ 
XI 7-4'43" IV 8°4'43" 
Kethu 6°52" 
Rahu 6°52' 
Mer 22°36’ V 7-4'43" 
Sun 16-13" Jp 14°54'(R) 
X 8-4'43" Mars (R) 
20°34" 
Saturn 
IX 12°4'43" VII Vil 3-3'(R) 
15°4'43" 16°13’20 VI 11-4°43)" 
Planet Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Moon Saturn 
Moon Jupiter Venus 
Mars Venus Jupiter 
Mercury Moon Venus 
Jupiter Venus Venus 
Venus Jupiter Saturn 
Saturn Sun Saturn 
Rahu Kethu Rahu 
Kethu Rahu Rahu 


96 


The 6th house indicates debts. The 7* house indicates the 
person who lends money and from whom money is borrowed. The 
8th house, being the 2nd from the 7th, indicates his bank position. 
The 5th house, which is the 11th house from the 7th indicates his 
gains and getting back the principal and interest. To the querent, the 
12th house indicates expenses or repaying loan. Hence, if the 
sublord of the 12th cusp is significator of houses 5, 8 or 12 debts will 
be repaid. 


The sub lord of the 12th cusp of this chart is Moon, who is in 
Punarvasu of Retrograde Jupiter, lord of 12 in 5 and in the sub of 
Venus in the 11th house. This indicates that she will be able to 
repay the loans. Moon in the star of Retrograde Jupiter is not a 
serious negation, because Jupiter as lord of 5 in 12 connect, the 
matter quested and Moon will give the result when Jupiter resumes 
direct motion on 27th April. As Venus is lord of 2 in 11, it also shows 
some gain or advantage in the process of discharging debts. It may 
be that some of the creditors may show some concession in respect 
of interest. As Moon indicates discharging debts, and Moon is in the 
3rd house in the sub of Venus in 11 ; she will negotiate with the 
creditors and some to an amicable settlement, thereby gaining 
some money. 


No planet in 8. Lord of 8 is Retrograde Mars. No Planets in Mars 
stars. Mars is in the sub of Jupiter in 5. Lord of 12 is Jupiter. Moon 
in Punarvasu in Venus sub and Venus is in Poorvabhadra 
of Retrograde Jupiter and sub of Saturn. Mars can be eliminated 
and Venus can be retained as Saturn is in Uttara. Thus, the 
benefics which will assist in the discharge of debts are Jupiter and 
Venus. Rahu is conjoined with Jupiter and aspected by Venus, while 
Kethu is conjoined with Venus and aspected by Jupiter. The nodes 
may be included. 


Today is Wednesday, Moon in Mercury sign Jupiter star, and the 
lagna is also Gemini, Jupiter star. 


97 


The 11th cusp is in a fixed sign, but the fast moving Venus is 
occupying it. Hence there will not be too much delay to pay off the 
loans. 


Two points are available according the ruling planets, (a) Pisces 
Jupiter star Rahu sub, (b) Gemini Rahu star, Venus or Kethu sub. As 
pisces is aspected by Saturn, when Sun transits in Gemini Arudra 
star Kethu sub or Venus sub, major part of the debts will be repaid, 
around 30th June or 2nd July, 1980. On the 30th , Moon will be in 
Uttarashada, while on 2nd will be in Sathabisha. So, she will clear 
the debts on July 2. 


What is the source for repaying, The bhukthi lord is Venus, who 
occupies the 11th house. The 11th house is considered to give 
desirable results. To any house, houses 6, 8, 12 are inimical and 
harmful. The 9* house is the 6th and the 11th house is the 8th and 
3rd house is the 12th to the 4*. The dasanatha, Jupiter, in the star of 
Venus in 11 indicates danger to the house, in Venus, Bhukthi, as 
Venus is in the star of Jupiter, lord of 9. Both these planets are 
mutually conspiring against the property of the querent, allowing it to 
be sold. This is possibility. 


Will she be free from debts? The 2nd house indicates money and 
the 11th house shows gains. Hence when the significators of these 
houses operate, there will be no more debts. 


No planet in 2, Lord of 2, Venus is in 11. Jupiter is in Venus star and 
sub. Excellent. Mars in Venus star Jupiter sub is no good. Saturn is 
lord of 11. No planets in his stars. Venus and Saturn are in Saturn 
sub. Hence in Jupiter dasa Venus bhukthi Saturn anthra onwards 
there will be no debts. 


Needless to say that the querent sold her house and discharged the 
debts on 2nd July. While bargaining with the creditors, she reduced 
the interest from Rs.12,000 to Rs.6,000 


GOOD LUCK 


98 


CHANGE IN JOB 


One of my consultants asked me whether there-is any 
change in the present job and was very much anxious to know the 
possibilities of change in job. He had furnished a number 183 
between 1 to 249 immediately. 


Date of judgement : 18% July 1980 Friday 
Time of Judgement : 9-06 p.m.(IST) 
At Thana 19-12 N 
73° 0O2'E 
Ayanamsa > 23°-29'(K.R) 


Balance of Moon dasa at the time of judgement 6 years 1 
month and 10 days. 


Horary Chart 
V 3°38" 
éfoe Mer (R) 
I 3°38 °38! ° 
IV 5°38 Ven. 25 2 99°98" 
VI 28° 38 VII 24°00! 
Sun 2°40’ 
VIII 27°38" 
Rahu 27°50' 
No. 183 
Kethu Jup. 15°35" 
27°50 Sat. 29°20’ 
11 27°38" 
IX 3°38" 
| 24°00' XI 3°38' X 5°38’ Mar. 10°59' 
XI 28°38’ Moon 15°11" 


99 


Planetary Positions: 


Planet Starlord Sub lord 
Sun Jupiter Rahu 
Moon Moon Jupiter 
Mars Moon Moon 
Mercury (R) — Jupiter Saturn 
Jupiter Venus Sun 
Venus Mars Rahu 
Saturn Sun Rahu 
Rahu Mercury(R) Jupiter 
Kethu Mars Jupiter 


Cuspal positions: 
Cusp Signlord Starlord Sub lord 


HII Jupiter Saturn Saturn 
Vv Venus Sun Saturn 
IX Mercury Sun Saturn 
X Venus Mars Moon 


Rule: 


i. Sub lord of the Xth cusp should be significator of 3, 5 
or 9th house. 


ii. Sub lord of tenth cusp should not be deposited in the 
constellation of retrograde planet. 


Significators: 


Third house: No planet in the third house. Lord of the third house 
is Jupiter. Sun and Mercury are in the constellation of Jupiter. Saturn 
is conjoined with Jupiter Kethu represents for Saturn as Kethu is 
deposited in the sign of Saturn (Capricorn). As Mercury is in 
Retrograde motion it should not be taken as significator. Hence, Sun, 
Jupiter, Saturn and Kethu are the significators of the third house. 


100 


Fifth house: Venus is in the fifth house and also lord of the 
sixth tenth and fifth house. Jupiter is in the constellation Of Venus. 
Hence Jupiter, Venus are the significators of the fifth house. 


Ninth house: Moon and Mars are deposited in ninth house. Moon 
and Mars are in the star of Moon. Venus and Kethu are in the star of 
Mars. Lord of the ninth house is Mercury, Rahu is in the star of 
Mercury. As Mercury is in retrograde motion and Rahu is in the star 
of retrograde planet. These two planets are not considered in the 
significators. Hence Moon, Mars, Venus and Kethu are the 
significators of the ninth house. 


Before proceeding to analyse the horoscope let us see whether the 
consultant have the curiosity about the query. This can be judged 
from the position of Moon. In this case Moon itself is deposited in 
the ninth house indicating strong curiosity about the result. 


Analysis : The sub lord of the tenth house is Moon which is 
deposited in the ninth house indicating strong significator of the 9th 
house. Also sub lord of tenth house, Moon, is deposited in the 
constellation of Moon itself. The Moon never achieves retrograde 
motion. As per our rules both the conditions are satisfied clearly 
indicating the change in job of the querist. 


Once the answer is positive we will have to proceed for the time 
factor. This can be judged with the help of Dasa, Bhukti, and ruling 
planets. 


At the time of judgement Moon dasa, Jupiter bhukthi was operating 
upto 28-11 -1980. As per K.P. Method Dasa and Bhukthi lord should 
be significators of 3,5 or 9th house. In this case Moon and Jupiter 
are significator of 3, 5 and 9 houses. To confirm whether the event 
will be materialized in Jupiter bhukti we will have to check the 
sublord of bhukti lord. Here Jupiter is in the sub of Sun. As per.K.R 
Method Sun should not be the significators of detrimental houses in 
the matter judged. In this case Sun is deposited in seventh house 
and it has got no ownership of the 


101 


cusp as sign. Leo owned by Sun is not the starting point of any cusp. 
Now in general we can say that the querist will change his present 
job before 28-11 -1980. 


Now for picking up the exact month let us check the ruling planets at 
the time of judgement ascendant lord-Saturn / Kethu Moon star lord 
Moon / Rahu. 


Asc. Star - lord - mars. 
Moon sign lord - Mercury 
Lord of day - Venus 


As Mercury is in retrograde motion and Rahu is in the star of 
retrograde planet, these two are not considered in ruling planets. 
Then the ruling planets will be Saturn, Kethu, Moon, Mars & Venus. 
Rahu is is association with Sun in Kataka. 


In K.P. method, nodes are considered stronger than the planets. 
Using this valuable theory. Sun in the constellation of Magha (ruled 
by Kethu) in Leo will give the change in the job to the querist. 
Referring to Mahabala's Advance Ephemeris (1971 to 80) Sun is in 
Magha from 16th August 1980 to 30th August 1980. 


Actually the consultant have given resignation on 20th August 1980 
and he has been relieved on 25th August 1980 as predicted. 


All the credit for accurate prediction goes to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, 
Long live Krishna Murti Padhdhati. 


GOOD LUCK * 


102 


MARRIAGE TIME CORRECTLY 
ANALYSED BY K.P. 


When will the marriage of my daughter take place? 


This question was put to me by an anxious parent (my close 
relative's acquaintance), in the month of October 1980. Natal 
horoscope of daughter recast and rectified by K.P. Born on 
5-6-1953, Friday. Recorded Time 12-35 p.m. noon IST, and rectified 
Time 12-34 p.m. noon IST, place of birth - Madras, Birth star - 
Poorva Bhadra, Balance of Guru Maha Dasa at Birth Time Y-5, M-7, 


D 13 


Bhava Position of planets 


2nd Bhava - Sani, 5th Bhava - Rahu, 7* Bhava - Moon, 8th Bhava 


- Sukra, 9th Bhava - Guru & Sun, 10th Bhava - Kuja, Budha 


11Th Bhava -Kethu 


Chart 
Gury 139° | Kula 0°57" 
Vill 26-55' | Sukra 6°48" aes oqge_ | Budha 4°52 
IX 27°36" on Ura. 23°35' 
XI 26°39 
Moon ce: 22 Ketu 12°44' 
Mae ee XII 26°30" 
Natal Chart 
VI 26°30" o 
Rahu 12°44 b 20-02 
11 26°55" 
V 26°39" IV 27°24 l7eaer ||| eam erss 
Nep. (R) 
28-12! 


103 


Steller positions 


Planets & cusps Star Lord Sub lord 


Sun Moon Sukra 
Moon Guru Sukra 
Kuja Kuja Budha 
Budha Kuja Sukra 
Guru Moon Rahu 
Sukra Kethu Rahu 
Sani Kuja Guru 
Rahu Moon Rahu 
Kethu Sani Kuja 
1st Cusp Sukra Ketu 
2nd Cusp Kuja Guru 
34 Cusp Guru Sukra 
4* cusp Budha Guru 
5th cusp Sukra Kethu 
6* cusp Kuja Guru 
7h Cusp Guru Kethu 
8th cusp Budha Guru 
9th cusp Sun Moon 
10% cusp Kuja Guru 
11 cusp Guru Sukra 
12" cusp Budha Guru 


7th Cusp Sub-lord is Ketu. It is posited in the 11* house. It is in 
the star of Saturn in 2. Its Rasi Lord moon is posited very near the 
7th cusp. So, marriage is definitely promised to the Native. As Sani 
is strong significator of the 10th, being posited in Kuja Star, marriage 
is out of question in Sani dasha. The following positions of planets 
also confirm the rule mentioned above. Moon is in 6- 8 
(Shashtashtakam) relationship with Saturn. Moreover sani and Kuja 
mutually aspect each other powerfully. "Kalathrakaraka" Venus 
(Sukra) is also in 8-6 relationship with Saturn. 


104 


H’o us now find out the strong significators for marriage. 2nd 
House is occupied by Sani, Kethu alone is posited in Sani Star. 7* 
house is occupied by Moon, Guru, Rahu and Sun are posited in 
Moon Star. 11* house is occupied by Kethu. Sukra alone is posited 
in Kethu star. So, the significators are Kethu, Guru, Rahu, Sun and 
Sukra. The strongest significator is Kethu, being a node. Marriage 
must take place in the conjoined periods, Sub periods, Inter period 
etc. of the significators. As Budha is aspected powerfully by Saturn. 
Lord of 7 posited in the 2nd house, and as Budha is Lord of 2 and 
11 also, marriage must surely take place in Budha Dasa. Kethu is a 
very strong significator for marriage, being in house 11, Kethu sub 
period in Budha Dasa is a proper time. As per above significators, 
marriage must take place in Budha Dasa, Kethu sub period, and 
Guru antharam. The sookshma period can be Sun or Rahu. The 
following dates were recommended or better suggested for the 
marriage. Sun is in conjunction with Guru. Sukra is in house 8. So 
Sun sookshma was given consideration. 


1. 22-1 -1981 Thursday Budha Dasa - Kethu Bhukthi - Guru 
antharam and Sun Sookshma. 


2. 6-2-1981 Friday Budha Dasa - Kethu Bhukthi - Guru 
antharam and Rahu Sookshma. 


The marriage actually took place on 6-2-1981. It took place in Rahu 
Sookshma only. Sun is posited in house 10. Rahu is posited in 
house 5. So the latter position is more appropriate for the 
culmination of marriage. Moon was moving in the 7* house in Rahu 
star on that day. Transits also agree approximately on both dates, 
though on the 2nd date, transit agreement of planets is better. 


|. 22-1 -81 - Ruling planets for the proposed muhurtham 9- 15 
to 10-30a.m. Guru, Sani, Sun, Kethu, Guru. 


Il. 6-2-'81 - Ruling planets for the proposed muhurtham 9- 15 to 
10-30a.m. Guru, Sani, Rahu, Sani, Sukra. 


105 


Thus we see on the second date Ruling planets are more 
appropriate, as Rahu's absent in the first date. There were some 
peculiarities with regard to the marriage. The boy is 4 months 
younger than the girl. The girl possesses higher educational 
qualifications (M.A. & Diploma in some special subject) and is ina 
good job as Assistant professor in a Women's College. The boy is 
only aB.Com at present, and is self employed as a partner ina 
family business venture dealing in paper and printing. 


The marriage proposal arose on account of the deep love of the girl 
for the boy and vice versa. The father of the girl wrote to me in the 
1st week of December 1980 that his people were against this 
alliance, in reply | wrote to them that this marriage would surely take 
place as circumstances would force them to agree to this match 
finally. In the end what | foreshadowed happened. 


Rahu in 5 in the star of Moon in 7 indicates that the marriage has to 
be brought about by love. As Rahu is aspected by Guru which is in 
Conjunction with Sun, parents will have to agree to this proposal in 
the end. 7th cusp sub lord Kethu is an agent of Moon, being in 
Kataka Rasi. As per K.P. the difference age between the partners 
will therefore be very little, say, even the boy can be younger. Bride 
is more educated as the 4th lord is in the 10th house, in its own star 
and in Budha sub. In the case of bridegroom, judging from the girl's 
horoscope 4th lord Sukra is in 2nd from 7th and in Kethu star. So his 
qualifications are lower than those of the girl. As the sub lord Kethu 
is in the 11th house married life must be surely happy for both. K.P 
alone can pin- point coming events with precision, long live K.P. 


GOOD LUCK 


106 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI DEEPER 
PREDICTIVE SYSTEM 


(PREDICTIONS BASED ON SOOKSHAMA 


A consultant wanted to have the birth time of his son, who was 
born on Z?"1 September, 1978, between 10-51 and 10-53 p.m. at 
Calcutta 22° N 34' / 88° E 24', rectified and the horoscope cast. It 
was rectified to 10-51 -29 p.m. and the horoscope as given below 
was dispatched to the consultant. 


Date of Birth : 27-9-1978 


Date of Birth Wednesday 
Place of Birth : Calcutta 22-34 N 88-24 E 
Ayanamsa :23°-27' (K.P) 
House Star Lord Sub Lord 
I Rahu Saturn 
H] Saturn Saturn 
ll Kethu Venus 
IV Sun Rahu 
V Mars Sun 
Vi Saturn Venus 
Vil Kethu Saturn 
Vill Sun Mercury 
IX Mars Mercury 
x Jupiter Mars 
Xl Kethu Mars 
XII Sun Venus 
Planet Star Lord Sub lord 
Sun Moon Moon 
Moon Mercury Kethu 
Mars Rahu Saturn 
Mercury Sun Venus 
Jupiter Saturn Sun 


107 


Venus Jupiter Saturn 
Saturn Venus Venus 
Rahu Sun Jupiter 
Kethu Jupiter Rahu 
Uranus Jupiter Jupiter 
Neptune Mercury Moon 
Fortuna Venus Rahu 
Chart 
Ke. 2°49' XI 5°03' XI 9°36" | 11°07' 
X 1°02" F. 19°28' 
15°18" 
pomers Jup. 10°28' 
IX 1°05 Moon 
19° 5' 53" 
VII 5°18" i 1°05" 
Sat 14°23’ 
Ven. 22°22' IV 1-02' 
054) Ura 20°46' Rahu 2°49' 
°0Q7’ Nep 22°21 
Vil 11°07 vigege. | Mars 11°48'| Merc. 8°20 
Vv 5°03! Sun 10°45 


After a few weeks he wanted to have general prediction for the 
first week of January 1979. This period was covered by Mercury 
dasa, kethu bhukthi, Mercury anthra, Jupiter sookshama. Mercury in 
the star of Sun, lord of 3 and sub of Venus, lord of 12 indicated 
Journey. Kethu in 10 without any planets in its stars occupied the 
sign owned by Jupiter. Jupiter in the constellation of Saturn in 3 and 
sub of Sun, lord of 3 indicated a short journey. While trying to give 
the date, it was miserably missed that Kethu in Jupiter sign would 
give the result in its star - day and 


108 


inadvertently pitched upon Bharani as Venus was lord of 12 and 
was the sub lord of cusps of houses 3 and 12. But actually the child 
went to his uncle's place on Aswini star-day. This may, perhaps, 
have given mind to suspect the Bonafides of the horoscope (that is 
what | surprised) 


A few days later, he asked me to predict what would have happened 
on 7th January, 1979 for the family as a whole - any social function, 
good or bad news and domestic environment of course, from the 
child's horoscope. 


It was mercury dasa, Kethu bhukthi, Mercury anthra, Jupiter 
sookshama. The matter has to be judged from the child's birth chart. 
The 9th house indicates father and his family as whole is indicated 
by the 10th house. Mercury in 7 from 10 in the star of Sun in 7 and 
sub of Venus in 8 indicates something connected with Maraka and 
danger, worry etc., Kethu in the star of Jupiter in 5 denoted child 
birth or some function. It is in the sub of Rahu in 7. Hence it is nota 
happy one or may be connected with sore. The shookshama lord 
Jupiter is in the star of Saturn in 6 denoting ill-health, in the sub of 
sun, lord of 6 in 7. So, death due to ill health. 


January 7 was a Venus star-day. Venus is lord of 3 in 8 from 10 in 
the sub of Saturn, lord of 11 and 12 in 6 from 10. Third house 
indicate telegram letter or other communication or news, 8th house 
indicates, death, worry, sorrow. The sub being 11 and 12, indicated 
that the lord of 3 also being in 8 as lord of 8 dignified in the star of a 
planet in Ucha and the sub being lord of 11, news or communication 
about the passing away of a person should have been received and 
as Venus is also lord of 8 and 12, the message should have been 
received late. As it was Venus star- day commencing from 9-18 a.m. 
and as Venus indicated receipt of bad news, when Moon was 
transiting in Venus star in Venus sub, the message ought to have 
been received between 9-18 a.m. and 1-28 p.m. (which is the 
duration of Venus sub in Venus star) on 7th January. | was 
hesitating to declare this. Instantly, | 


109 


heard the veiling cry of a person in next door and this gave me 
confidence to confirm the findings. 


Two weeks later, it was stated that the consultant received a 
message at about 1 p.m. on 7th January, immersing all the members 
of the family in great sorrow, and added that though the news was 
sorrowful, the prediction was wonderful. 


Just now another case strikes my memory, wherein it was predicted 
to a lady that in her Mars sookshama, she would be injured by 
boiling water or steam, as Mars was in Scorpio in the constellation of 
a planet in 8 and sub lord lagna in 6. Mars is a Karaka for accidents 
and it was in the star of occupant of 8. The sub-lord being lord of 
lagna indicated the native and 6th house denoted injury and ill- 
health. Mars, a fiery planet, in Scorpio, a watery sign, denoted 
boiling water or steam. 


The lady was preparing tea and at that time the kettle with boiling 
water toppled down and her hand was injured. But this also 
happened a day earlier than the date predicted. | had been praying 
to catch hold of this horoscope, but was not successful. Hence, it 
could not be clarified in greater detail. 


GOOD LUCK 


110 


MARRIAGE AND MARITAL LIFE: 
A SCIENTIFIC APPROACH THROUGH 
STELLAR ASTROLOGY 


Date of Birth : 30-8-1947 


Time of Birth 12-05 p.m. (IST) 
Place of Birth Madras (13°-04’ N Lat 80°-17' E Long) 


Sidereal Time 10h-26m-28s 
Chart 
BALANCE OF MARS DASA 5 Y OM 2D 


V 13°58" VI 13°46" Rahu 4°22" VII 9°33" 
VII 10°34" Mars 17°36’ 


IV 11°45" IX 9°44 
Sat. 22°32' 
Nirayana Natal Chart 

Balance of aA 

Moon Mars Dasa 5yom 2d X 11°45 
27°08' Ven. puck 
111 9°44" Sun 13°02' 
Merc. 14°10' 

11. 9°33' Ke. 4°22! XII 13°46" XI 13°58' 


| 10°34" Jup. 27°36’ 


(Cuspal positions for the above time have been calculated with 
the aid of Table of Houses so as to get the interpolated non-angular 
cusps (i.€.) 2,3,5,6,8,9,11 and 12) correct to the minute of arc which 
cannot be got by applying Raphael's which gives the positions of 
these cusps only to the nearest degree. It is always advisable to use 


111 


the Table of Houses for casting the cusps accurately. The Ayanamsa 
is what Prof. Krishnamurti has recommended) 


(Saturn and Moon aspect each other causing Punarphoo 
which is an indication of impediment and disharmony in married 
life if other factors also lend support. 


Planet 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Kethu 


Cusp 


Xl 
Xl 


House Star Lord Sub Lord 
occupant 

10 Kethu Mercury 
3 Mars Jupiter 
8 Rahu Sun 

10 Venus Venus 
12 Jupiter Venus 
10 Kethu Mercury 
9 Mercury Moon 

6 Sun Saturn 
12 Saturn Saturn 


Sub lord 
Sun 
Saturn 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Venus 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Mercury 


Harmony and concord in married life is to be seen from the 
disposition of the sub lord of the eleventh cusp. Though the sub 
lord of the seventh cusp determines the possibility of marri 
age, yet harmonious living is to be understood only from the sub of 


112 


the eleventh house which rules abiding friendship. The sub lord of 
the seventh cusp shows whether marriage will take place or not. If 
marriage, is promised, it will also indicate the nature of proposed 
marriage such as arranged one, love affair of whether the bride / 
bridegroom is from another caste. Delay and impediments are also 
seen by the sub lord. In addition to the above the characteristics of 
the bride and bridegroom are to be read only from seventh house 
and its sub lord. 


Houses to be considered for marriage are 2, 7 and 11. The twelfth 
to the above houses, namely 1, 6 and 10 are 'Vraya sthanas' or 
negating houses. When dasa and bhukthi of significators of 1, 6 and 
10 operate in life, marriage will not take place, however much one 
may try. Sometimes one particular bhukthi may signify 2 or 7 or 11, 
but if, at the same time it also signifies strongly 1, 6 or 10, its bhukthi 
cannot cause marriage (here the strength of the significator is to be 
ascertained as per rules enunciated in the Krishnamurti padhdhati 
readers) 


When a planet signifies two events such as marriage and 
separation, both the events will take place. It is only a matter of 
time.The question of the planetary influence mitigating or canceling 
the other does not arise, at all. For instance, if a planet signifies 1 
and 8, accident may happen. If the chart is endowed with a short 
span of life and the planet causing the accident also represents 
death inflicting houses, the native may succumb to death. On the 
other hand, if the chart is endowed with a good span of life, the 
planet causing the accident will not take away life though it has 
connection with 'maraka’ or death-inflicting houses. 


Many people are under the impression that all bad events in life can 
be averted by resorting to shanthis. Probably the idea behind 
Shanthi is to relieve the mind from stress and stain. The best thing 
in life is to have faith in the lord. Prayer is the most potent weapon 
through which a devotee can achieve everything. Faith leads to 
devotion. Chanting a powerful name of the lord cleanses the mind 
and purifies the system. 


113 


Now turning to the horoscope and hand, the sub lord of the 
seventh cusp is Moon. Moon should have connection with 2, 7 or 11 
houses. Here Moon is stationed in the 3rd house in the constellation 
of Mars, lord of 1 and 6 in 8. Jupiter is lord of 2 and 5 and moon is in 
the sub of Jupiter. This Moon has connection with the 2nd house. 
Besides, Moon is trine to the cusp of 7 promising the native a 
married life. 


The selection of significators for marriage is to be done in the order 
of their strength as per _ rules’ enunciated in_ the 
Krishnamurti Paddhati. 


| - Order Significators: Since no planet comes as occupants of 
houses 2, 7 and 11, planets having supreme power to implement 
the event are nil. 


Il - Order Significators: They are occupants of 2, 7 and 11 * houses, 
No planet occupies the above houses. Hence order significators are 
nil. 


Ill Order Significators: Jupiter, Mercury, Saturn. 
IV Order Significators : Jupiter, Venus, Mercury. 


Evaluating the significators, Jupiter obtains 2 points (because it 
appears two times in the above list). Mercury gets two points; 
Saturn and Venus one point each. These are the planets which 
should govern the dasa, bhukthi, anthra and sookshma at the 
time of marriage. Sometimes more than four planets will qualify for 
the event. In such cases eliminate the tempters either with the aid of 
Ruling planets or by studying te subs. The former is more 
efficacious than the latter if experience is of any guide. 


Jupiter dasa started on 2-9-1970. The Swabhukthi (Jupiter sub 
period in Jupiter dasa) cannot bring the event, as the sub lord 
Saturn signifies 7, 12 and 6. The Swabhukthi is weak as it has 
connection with 6lh house. Hence, Jupiter sub period passed 
without any result. Next, Saturn sub period commenced. Saturn is in 
the sub of Moon in 3 in the constellation of Mars. Lord of 1 


114 


and 6 in 8. hence Saturn also did not bring about the event.Next 
Mercury bhukthi started. Mercury is in the sub of Venus, the Karaka 
for marriage. Venus's is lord of 7 and 12 and has obtained two 
points. Jupiter dasa, Mercury bhukthi proved useful in 
marriage. Jupiter is lord of 2 and Mercury of the 11th, they are both 
in Venus sub. Saturn and Venus controlled the anthra and 
sookshma period at the time of marriage. Saturn being in the 
constellation of 11th lord and Venus as 7th lord in its own star 
conjoined with Mercury, 11 lord Mercury is more potent for marriage 
than Saturn being not only in a favourable house reckoned from 
the dasa lord but also because Mercury is the planet in the chart 
posited in the star and sub of the 7th lord, of Venus, and in 
conjunction with Venus. Saturn is 94°04' away from Jupiter 
whereas Mercury is 73°26' away. Hence Mercury is more powerful 
than Saturn. 


State of Married Life : This is to be seen from the sub lord of 
the 11th cusp. Jupiter, the sub lord of 11, occupies 12th 
house representing separation. Jupiter tenants its own 
constellation signifying the 12th house result strongly. Moon, the 
constellation lord of 11th cusp, is in the 3rd tenanting the 
constellation of Mars, lord of 1 and 6 in 8. Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti 
observes that the 12th house shows’ separation from the 
partner, the 8th quarrel, disharmony and discord but yet living 
with the partner, and the 6th house temporary separation caused 
either by illness or proceeding to outstation on professional 
assignments. 


In the chart on hand, the 12* is well fortified and separation can be 
expected. Hence his married life cannot bring him happiness and 
concord. 


Mercury bhukthi and Kethu bhukthi gave mixed _ results. 
Though some misunderstanding prevailed, the married partner 
lived with him. During her stay in the bhukthi of Kethu, she gave 
birth to a child also. Kethu is connected to Saturn being in 
the latter's constellation and sub of Saturn also, rules the 
constellation on the fifth cusp. Hence the birth of the child in Kethe 
Bhukthi. 


Separation : Separation takes place when periods of 
significators of 1, 6 and 10 operate. There was such separation 
during April 1979. Jupiter, Venus and Moon ruled by dasa, bhukthi 
and anthra at the time of separation. Jupiter also represents the 
12th; Venus represents the 10th and also 12th (as its lord; and 
Moon represents the lagna being in the lagna lord's constellation. 


Reunion : Reunion takes place when the significators of 2, 7 and 11 
operate. The succeeding sub period should represent the above 
houses. If this happens to signify 12,1,6,10 strongly, reunion is 
ruled out. Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu are the sub periods he has to 
undergo from 14-3-81. The subs occupied by these planets are not 
significators of 2, 7 and 11. Hence these sub periods will not 
contribute for reunion. 


Second Marriage : In general, second marriage comes off either 
after the death of the first wife or after legal separation through 
court. According to the version given by the native of the horoscope, 
the matter is pending in the court. When the significators of 12, 6 
and 10 operate, Necessary court order will be passed. Sun is in the 
constellation of Kethu in 12. The sub lord Mercury is in the 
constellation of Venus, owner of 12 in 10. Necessary court order 
should issue during the sun sub period. 


According to the principles of advanced steller theory advocated 
by Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti, the 7th cusp sub lord should be either 
the dual planet mercury or situated in the constellation of a planet 
in a dual sign. Besides the above condition, it should also be related 
to 2 or 11. When the above two conditions are 
simultaneously satisfied, the native is destined to marry a second 
time. 


In the chart under discussion. Moon the sub lord of the seventh 
house is in the constellation belonging to Mars posited in Gemini, a 
dual sign of the zodiac. So the first condition is satisfied. Moon 
does not signify either 2 or 11 by lordship and occupation. The 
constellation occupied by Moon is Mars. Mars 


116 


also does not indicate the house in question. The sub lord of Moon 
is Jupiter, lord of 2 in 12. Moon also rules the constellation on the 
cusp of the eleventh house. In this way Moon is related to 2 and 
11. The 11th cusp sub lord Jupiter is connected more strongly with 
2nd and 12th than with the 7th house, representing the first wife. 
The constellation lord of 2nd cusp, Kethu, is an agent of Mars in a 
dual sign aspecting the 2nd therefrom. The sub lord of 2nd cusp, 
Saturn is placed in the star of the dual planet Mercury, lord of 11. 
Saturn also aspects the 11th. The probability of second marriage 
taking place is thus certain. Jupiter is lord of the 2nd in its own star 
in the 12th. The 2nd -house represents the second marriage. 


Moon in the sub of Jupiter is a strong significator of the 2nd 
house. So second marriage may be expected during Moon sub 
period which is to start from 2-1-82. Salutations to Late Prof. K.S. 
Krishnamurti. 


The great genius of astrology! 


GOOD LUCK 


117 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI SERVES 
THE ASTROLOGERS FOR CALCULATING 


THE PARTY ARRIVAL AND REVEALS 


MALE OR FEMALE 


On 28-2-81 Saturday 8.30 a.m. | wanted to know when the 
party would come to me. 


The Rasi Chart: 


Date of Birth . 28-2-81 
Time of Birth : 8.30 a.m. 
Day of Birth Saturday 
Latitude : 11-00 N 
Longitude : 77-00 E 
Ayanamsa 23-30 Krishnamurti Padhdhati. 
Chart 
Ascendant I1 20°58" Ill 19°19" IV 15°32! 
118°11' 
Mars 23°12' 
Sun 15-57" V 12°42’ 
XII 13-27' Rahu 15°57’ 
Venus 6°21' 
Merc. (R) 
26°36' VI 13°27' 
Kethu 15-57' 
XI 12°42' 
Sat. (R) 
Moon 27°53' 14°55) 
X 15-32’ IX 19°19” VIII 20°58' 
Nep. 1*09' jeaeaet Jup-R 15°6’ 
ra Vil 18°14" 


118 


Cusps Sign Lord Star Lord Sub Lord 


I Jupiter Mercury Mercury 
H] Mars Venus , Jupiter 
III Venus Moon Mercury 
IV Mercury Rahu Venus 
V Moon Saturn Mars 
Vi Sun Venus Venus 
Vil Mercury Moon Mercury 
VIII Venus Jupiter Jupiter 
IX Mars Mercury Kethu 
x Jupiter Venus Venus 
Xl Saturn Moon Rahu 
xil Saturn Rahu Mercury 
Planets Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Rahu Venus 
Moon Mercury Jupiter 
Mars Jupiter Saturn 
Mercury (R) Mars Jupiter 
Jupiter (R) Moon Jupiter 
Venus Mars Moon 
Saturn (R) Moon Jupiter 
Rahu Saturn Jupiter 
Kethu Moon Saturn 
Judging Houses 1,3, 7,9 and 11. 


Significators: 


1.Mars,Jupiter 

3.Venus 

7.Moon, Mercury, Rahu 

9.Rahu, Kethu, Saturn, Jupiter, Moon 

11 .Moon, Mercury, Kethu, Venus, Saturn, Rahu 


119 


Ruling Planets 
Day Lord Saturn / Kethu 


Rasi Mars 

Star Mercury 

Lagna Jupiter 

Star Mercury 

Sub Mercury 
Analysis : 


The sub lord of 11th cusp is Rahu, Rahu signifies 7 and 11 so 
the party will come sure. Jupiter, Mercury are strong significators. 
Mercury aspects Rahu, Rahu is also strong significators, because 
they come under both significators and ruling planets. When the 
lagna touches the above significators, the party will come sure. 
When the lagna will touch Jupiter sign, Meena, Mercury star Jupiter 
sub Rahu sub sub, a party will arrive at 9-04 a.m. on 28- 2-81. As it 
was expected two girls came to my room for astrological 
consultations. 


The sublord of 7th cusps is Mercury. Mercury, retrograde in Makara 
along with Kethu and aspects Rahu. Rahu and Kethu are 
representing for Moon. Hence two females (Mother and daughter) 
came for astrological consultations, Illrd house shows meeting. 3rd 
house falls in Venus sign Moon star Mercury sub. Mercury is for 
Karaka astrology. Thus through Krishnamurti Padhdhati, We can 
find out day-to-day events with the help of ruling planets. 


GOOD LUCK 


120 


WILL SARGUNA HELP ME FINANCIALLY? 


QUERIES MY FRIEND 


In the afternoon of 25-2-81, my friend Mr. M. approached me 
with the above query and also added if an approach for finance will 
affect his general name in future, as the party to be approached is a 
woman. And he was also anxious in Knowing the Horary result then 
itself. 


Hence | took up a number from him and put the horary figure; and 
the particulars are as under: 


Query Will sarguna help me by giving money 
No. given 198 (1-249) 

Time of working 3 p.m. IST on 25-2-81 

Place Chennai 13°47' 80°17’ 


Ref :Tables of Houses and Advanced Ephemeris 1981 - 90 
of Hariman's. 


Ayanamsa of Shri K.S. Krishnamurti 23° - 30° 


Cusp Sub Lord 
| Jupiter 
ll Moon 
Hl Sun 
IV Saturn 
Vv Kehu 

vi Venus 
Vil Rahu 

Vill Rahu 
IX Venus 
X Saturn 
Xl Venus 


Xl Sun 


121 


TINY 


Il 22°10'19" IV 23°0'19" V 20°10'19" | VI 16-10'19" 
Mars 21°3'36" Vil 
Sun 13-15'45" 13°53’20" 
ee eras Nirayana Horary Chart Bite 
Balance in Jupiter period 
Mercury (R at the moment: 
salon 9y-0m-15d ei 
soa 18°10'19" 
| 13-53'20" 
Sat. (R) 
Al XI 20°10719" oeete Hanae 
AS ANTS x 231019" | Pecpaigs 
IX 22-10'19" 
Planets Degree Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun 313-15-45 Rahu Mercury 
Moon 205-6-14 Jupiter Mercury 
Mars 321-3-36 Jupiter Jupiter 
Mer (R) 297-44-32 Mars Jupiter 
Jupiter (R) 165-21-1 Moon Jupiter 
Saturn (R) 165-4-49 Moon Juipter 
Venus 302-56-41 Mars Venus 
Rahu 106-4-49 Saturn Jupiter 
Kethu 236-4-49 Moon Saturn 


Query is if Mr. M.will get financial help from the particular 


person (Sarguna). 


At the outset | took up the question if his approach to a woman 
for financial help would tell upon his name and lead to scandal, as 
he was feeling more nervous for the approach, as such matters 


may even mar his name in future too. 


122 


For this | looked into the sub-lord of the 1st cusp, which is 
Jupiter, an auspicious planet (Nisargika Subha), which itself solves 
50% of the query, promising no disturbance in such matters or 
affect his status. Furthermore, the same sub-lord Jupiter signifies 
10th, having been posited in the star of Moon in 10th, concretes the 
fact that his approach to that particular woman for financial 
assistance will not mar his name in the future. 


For financial matter, the 2nd cusp and its sub lord should 
be scrutinized invariably. 


Here the sub-lord is Moon. It is in the 10th bhavam, in the star of 
Jupiter a depositor of 8th bhavam. 


8th bhavam is the house of finance in terms of the 7th cusp. 
7th represents the person with whom one transacts and here it 
is Sarguna. This combination tentatively tell that the financial 
help particularly from her is not forthcoming. 


Let me discuss the financial status of that person and also if she 
will be parting with her money on his account if the approach is 
made. 8th cusp and sub-lord will reveal this position. 


The sub lord is Rahu. Rahu is in the 7th itself, in the constellation 
of Saturn; a depositor of 8th, and Saturn is retrograde. 


8th house is the house of money in terms of 7. (It represents the 
person with whom one transacts), so the querist's financial position 
cannot be improved particularly through her (Sarguna), as she is 
not parting with her money on his account. This is the further 
finalised indication. 


8th cusp and its sub lord also tells her financial soundness. 8th 
cusp sub lord is Rahu, signifying 8th, reveals her sound position 
financially. But the sub lord Rahu is deposited in the star of one who 
is retrograde. This retrograde status of the constellation lord Saturn 
here tell some temporary phase of the difficulties regarding the 
financial position of that person; and further the sub lord Rahu is 
stationed in 7th (i.e. |) being a node it signifies 7th 


123 


too, that reveals the position that her financial circumstances 
are under a chequered status, as Is " is a negative sign for 2. 


With this | told him, that expecting financial assistance from this 
particular person will be of no avail, as the horary figure indicates 
her temporary difficult financial circumstances also at the moment 
of discussion. 


Anyway, | advised him not to drop human effort. 


My friend Mr. M., went away; and on 1-3-81 he again met me and 
told, that he approached her who had explained that her money in 
Banks could not be drawn on account of some objections raised 
by her husband on family reasons. 


Students may please note how the 8m cusp reveals the real 
financial position of the one with whom one transacts, as 
explained above. 


They may also note that the existing period of Jupiter, signifying 
10th and it is an aiding period; and the bhukthi of Mercury is a full 
significator of 2 and 6 (note no planet in Mercury stars), is also a 
very good period for financial help. Despite this happy contribution 
of Dasa and Bhukthis, financial help is not forthcoming, as the 
2nd cusp does not promise/permit the same, particularly from that 
person, for which it is queried. 


And thus one may note that superiority status of Krishnamurti 
padhdhati in predictive side of Astrology and we serve well our 
revered Guruji through our efforts, by going deeper into 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati, to unearth further secrets of this sacred 
Padhdhati of Sri K.S. Krishnamurti, as astrology is a science 
which is still on the road to perfection. 


Omid GOOD LUCK! 


124 


K.P.THEORY SAVES FROM THE CLUTCHES 
OF FALSE INTERPRETATION OF "7 1/2" SANI 


As per Indian traditional Astrology while the Saturn is moving 
through the 12th, 1st and 2nd houses to Moon posited in the Rasi 
chart, it is considered as 7 1/2 Sani. It is believed loss of money, 
failing in business, change of place, sick, worries in families and 
various bad events, occur in the said period. But it is a false notion. 
K.P system proves in that period the native gets a very good result 
in business, family, earning money and in various aspects of his life. 
During that period there is a possibility for a person to become a 
lakhier. To this effect is a chart given below analysed through K.P. 
System 


Chart 
Uranus Ss 
ong) 10°41' Ascendant Me. 8°1 
ee XI 13°16" 1 15°24" od 
Moon 29°22" Sun 15-48’ | Venus 28°43' 
Sel 18:28: Kethu 1-28' 
Xx 7°07 Birth 31-5-1935 Friday IL 8°19" 
A.M. 6.00 1ST 
11°00’N 77"00'E 
Ayanamsa 22-51 (K.R) IV 7°07" 
IX 8°19' Sun Dasa Balance 
Rahu 1°28' 4y-9m-13d ePuIe 
18°57 
i or ins Vv 9°28' 
VII 11-59 VII 15°24 ae a Mars 14°14" 


125 


Cusps 


Planets 
Sun 

Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter (R) 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Kethu 


Significators: 


126 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Kethu 


Sign 
Venus 
Mercury 
Moon 
Sun 
Mercury 
Venus 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 


Star lord 
Moon 
Sun 
Moon 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Jupiter 
Rahu 
Sun 
Jupiter 


1-3-4-12 
1-4-3-12 
3-5-7-12 

1 -2-5-8 
6-8-11 
2-6-1-8-11 
9-10-8 
1-8-9-10-4 
2-11-6%, 12,3 


Star Sub 


Moon Jupiter 
Rahu Saturn 
Saturn Venus 
Kethu Rahu 
Sun Venus 
Rahu Mercury 
Saturn Jupiter 
Kethu Mercury 
Sun Venus 
Rahu Rahu 
Saturn Venus 
Kethu Mercury 
Sub lord 

Saturn 

Rahu 

Jupiter 

Rahu 

Saturn 

Venus 

Venus 

Jupiter 

Rahu 


On 8-4-1966 the Saturn moved in the 12th house (Meenam)and on 

10-5-1966 he was transitting in the Star of Utharattathi. At that time the 
native gave his Rasi chart to a famous Astrologer to know his future. 
During that time Rahu Dasa, Mercury Bukthi were running. Balance of 
Mercury Bukthi was 1y-5m-6d. The Astrologer told him that Dasa lord 
Rahu posited in 8th House and at the same time 7 1/2 Sani was also 
running. Therefore he told that bad time had come and all sorts of 
failures and loss of money, accident etc. would happen to him. On 
hearing this, the native became upset. But until that time he was in a 
good position and was earning a lot through lending money. On 
hearing the prediction of the astrologer, the native reduced his 
business out of fear. After one month on his wife's inducement he 
invested money in the production of Machineries and tools connected 
with Iron. In this investment he earned a lot of money and reached the 
position which he did not dream of it. K.P explains reasons for this. 
Analysis: 

The Saturn being the sub lord of 2nd cusp, signifies 10th and posited 
in 10th house. On 8-4-1966 he moved in the 12th house and on 
10-5-1966 he transited in his own star of Utharattathi as per K.P 
theory, A planet when being sub lord of 2nd cusp, signifying 10th or 
11th moves in constellation of 10 and 11, the native will get very good 
results in his life and business improved, not taking into account of 7 
1/2 Sani or 8th Bava or Ashtama Sani and whatever it may be. 
According to the above theory in this rasi chart the Saturn was sub lord 
of 2nd cusp and signified 10th. He moved in his own star of Uttarattathi 
on 10-5-1966 wile the Saturn ran through Utlarattathi, the native got 
beneficial effects. Mercury and Venus signified 2nd and Kethu Venus 
signified further both 2nd and 11. Even when the Saturn moved 
through the constellations of the above said planets the native got very 
good opportunity and become a big shot during the period. The native 
did not receive any bit of bad effects as predicted by the Indian 
traditional Astrology see how K.P. breaks the false notion and 
enlightens the people in this regards. 


GOOD LUCK! 


127 


WHEN CAN | EXPAND MY STEEL 
| FURNITURE BUSINESS | 


Following is the case of one gentleman of business trade 
who is already having a steel factory and showroom at Central 
Calcutta since a long time. | came in contact with him while | 
went to purchase few steel Almirahs and noticed the diamond in 
his hand.On curiosity | asked the cost and effect of it. | mean 
whether he got any development after wearing the precious 
gemstone or not. On seeing my inquisitive query, he asked 
me whether | know astrology. Of course, |! had to surrender then 
.He took out his birth Rasi Chart which | finalised afterwards 
according to Krishnamuti Padhdhati and predicted as | noticed. 
He puts up one query: Whether he can expand his business 
venture to a greater height. 


Mr. Shyamal Kumar Bhourick of Lucky steel furniture, M.G. 
Road Calcutta-7 was born on 2nd Kartick 1343, Monday, that is 19th 
Oct. 1936 at 11-52 A.M.(I.S.T) at Milahi (30 miles from Dacca, 
Bangaladesh) Latitude 23°-42'N Longitude 90°-25' E, Ayanamsa 22° 
- 58' whose rasi chart and planetary position are erected below for 
detail and final judgement of his case: 


Ayanamsa used 22° - 52' Krishnamurti Padhdhati. 


Planet Constellation Sub 
Sun Mars Venus 
Moon Saturn Rahu 
Mars Venus Jupiter 
Mercury Moon Jupiter 
Jupiter Mercury Saturn 
Venus Jupiter Rahu 
Saturn -R Jupiter Saturn 
Rahu Kethu Moon 
Kethu Mars Venus 
Uranus - R Venus Venus 
Neptune Venus Mercury 


128 


Chart 


IV 12°56’ VI,3°39" 
I 11°13” Ura. (R) V C°33’ Kethu 4°34' 
45°42" VII 28°50" 
Sat. (R) 
23<=44' 
11 4°46" 
Rasi Chart 
Vill 4°48" 
Mars 21 °H' 
Nep. 25°02' 
Jup. 28°16’ 
1 28°50’ Moon X 12°S6' IX 11°13" 
Rahu 4°34 14°26'24" Sun 2°49 Merc. 15°10" 
XII 3°39" XI. 9°33" 
Ven. 2°20’ 


Analysis : 

10th house shows about one's Karma (profession or business 
Here 10th house falls in Venus sign Libra Rahu star and in the sub of 
Mercury. Mercury is in Kanya, his own and exalted house. It is in the 
star of Moon, occupant in Vrischika Rasi owned by Mars. Moon 
is posited in 11th house along with upiter, lord of lagna, Third and 
twelfth houses. 10th bhava is occupied by Venus, though 
stationed in Vrischika Rasi, in Jupiter star Rahu sub. Furniture is 
indicated by Mars and Venus, steel is allocated by Mars and Saturn. 
Venus in Vrischika is aspected by Mars and Saturn from Simha and 
Kumba _ respectively. The native is running Venus dasa, from 11 
-12-1963. Jupiter indicates expansion, 12th house __ indicates 
investments expenses. He operates now Venus dasa, Mercury 
bhukthi upto 11-10-82, While Venus dasa, Mercury bhukthi, Rahu 
anthra operates around November 1981 he will begin to expand his 
steel furniture business. 


GOOD LUCK! 


129 


FACT OR FICTION? SIGNIFICANCE OF 
THIRD HOUSE CUSP 


The query is: It is surmised that Mr. Keshab Ranjan Kar's 
mother tongue is Bengali. Is it a fact? 


Horary No. 129 within 249. Judgment time 9-36 p.m. Date of 
calculation 20-6-80 Friday at Calcutta, latitude 20° - 34' (N longitude 
88° 24' (E 


The third cusp sub lord is Mars, Mars is in the star of Venus, Venus 
is placed in Rishaba Rasi. It is retrograde and aspected by Saturn 
(10th aspect So the fact is not true. Mr. Keshab Ranjan Kar's 
mother tongue is not Bengali. 


According to the technique of Krishnamurti Padhdhati, if the 3rd 
cusp sub lord is Saturn, the rumour is false; if the 3rd cusp sub lord- 
is Mars, rumour is mischievous. If the 3rd cusp sub lord is connected 
with Jupiter, it is true, but if the 3rd cusp sub lord is in the star of 
Saturn it is wrong. 
Chart 0 
Sun 5°58' 
IX 5-02' 


VIIl 5°02" 


VI 8°02' VII 


130 


5°33'20" 


Ven.(R) 
27-43! 


Merc. 
29°20' 


V 8°02' 


IV 6°02' 


Kethu 29-20’ 


Rahu 29-20’ 
X 6-02’ 


XI 8°02’ 
Mars 25°45' 
Jup. 10°59" 
Sat. 27-26' 


Ill 5-02" 


1] 5°2" 


| 5°33'20' 


Moon 7°35' 
XII 8°02' 


GOOD LUCK 


PLANET AND HEART DISEASES 


Our learned Editor's constant encouragement has inspired me 
to compile the present article in great haste, though the topic is of 
utmost importance, in particular to myself since | am a chest 
specialist as well as a student of Astrology. The impending foreign 
travel along with its associated uncertainties and singularly the very 
process of uprooting myself from the settled surroundings have 
devoured my little leisure and diverted my attention. The readers 
have the uncontested right to expect all about the astrological 
aspects of Heart diseases whereas much of it may be missing, with 
due apologies. evertheless the case material gathered over a 
period of years is expected to present the readers with 
some astrological material worth my labour. The masterly article 
entitled "Saturn's role in Heart Diseases" by a senior and popular 
writer Sri. Kesavamenon in the Annual number 1979 of the 
Astrological Magazine which most of the readers might have 
already studied, triggered my enthusiasm to collect charts of patients 
under my care, a study of which brings to surface certain 
interesting observations. Medical terminology is omitted to a great 
extent with the specific intention of making it more presentable. 


Astrologically Heart Diseases may be classfied grossly into 
2 categories: 


1. those with sudden on set - Heart attacks. 


2. those which develop as a result of prolonged disease 
process valvular diseases. 


The first category will be dealt in the subsequent article where 
as valvular heart diseases are being discussed in this article. 


What are Valves: There are small holes in the heart through 
which blood flows from one chamber to another in one direction 
only. This direction of blood flow is controlled by Valve. The valve 
closes the hole soon after blood flow is over, during each Heart 


KRISHNAMURU PADHDHATI * 131 


beat, this closure prevents the back-flow of blood. Due to prolonged 
disease process the holes may get narrowed, (stenosis) which 
prevents adequate blood flow. On the other hand, the valve may be 
diseased and deformed thus failing to effectively close the hole when 
back flow (Regurgitation) takes place. The latter is more dangerous 
than the former whereas both need surgical treatment. In the same 
case one or more number of holes may be narrowed and one or 
more number of valves may be deformed. Another important point to 
note is they may be present since birth (congenital) or develop after 
birth. The scope of the present paper is grossly limited to study 
valvular diseases as an entity without striving to make out planetary 
combinations responsible for the various types of valvular diseases. 


The much-dreaded Planet Saturn is  solitarily responsible for 
"Prolonged disease", "narrowing" and "defects" in any part of the 
body. Where Heart is the seat of the diseases and defects, the 
placement of Saturn gains all the important which is discussed 
below. 


Kethu 1°14' 
X12°51' | X11 6°05" cee 
Birth Date:31/1-7-1955 ybn com Mocolte 
ogo San ie Ga Ven.6-08' Mars9¥19" 
Merc. 20°42") Birth Time:2-50A.M. Sun 14-44" 
Place. Yellamanchali Vizag} Jup. 17-13' 
Birth Day: Sunday Ill 28-34" 
17°42’ N 83°20'E 
sees Ayanamsa KP 23° 08' 
IX 28°34 Star - Moolam bigs 
VII 2°12' Balance of Kethu Dasa IV 28°42 
OY-9M-6D 
si Sat. 21°30’ 
11°52'13" es a 
vilzeze | “Ie tS Me 
Rahu 1°04! Nep. 2°29 


132 


It is widely accepted that Sun represents heart which is also 
evidence by the facts recognized by Scientists as well that during 
the period of Solar flares there is higher incidence of heart diseases. 
So afflictions to Sun and the sign it owns, Leo, shows the liability of 
a native to heart diseases. Like-wise afflictions to IV bhava which 
represents chest also should be considered. Since the sign cancer 
is 4th in the zodiac, an effort is also made to see if any affliction to 
the sign is in evidence in the cases discussed. 


There is affliction of the sign cancer both by Saturn and Mars who 
are aspecting each other, in addition, Sun who is also happens to be 
the Lord of IV bhava is afflicted by both the planets as such we 
cannot delineate whether affliction to Sun or the sign cancer are 
responsible for the valvular heart disease. May be the different types 
of afflictions are responsible for different types of valvular diseases, 
a study of which will be attempted at a later date. It is again 
interesting to note that Mars is the Sub-lord of the IVcusp. 


ChartNo.2 
Saturn IX 6°32" 
vi9°12 VIL7°28' 48°15? Jupiter 
VIIl 6°50 22°18! 
ethtt date of Birth 19.8.1942 X 7°00' 
11-37 Time of Birth 8-40A.M. 099) 
ae ; : Ven. 9°23 
V 8°22 Place of Birth - Sirkakulam 
Day-Wednesday 
Ayanamsa (KP) 23°-03' Sun 2°27' 
Ree Star: Visakam 099) 
Iv 7°00 Balance of Dasa Jupiter Ph eee 
6Y-5M-14d is 
Merc. 17°37 
Rahu 11 °37’ 
Moon Sie, 
111 6°32" 11 6°50" 27°57'18" eae 
| 7°28' 


133 


Once again there is affliction of the sign cancer by Saturn. 
Mars is in Leo in exact square to Saturn. There is also associated 
affliction to IV Bhava whose sub-lord Kethu is aspected by Saturn. 
This is a case of valvular disease present since birth. Surgical 
treatment is predicted during mars - Saturn - Rahu period i.e. 
20-8-81 to 15-1-82. 


Chart NO.3 
Jup. 21°20’ Kethu 27°06' IV 12°23’ Mars 2°25' 
Il 11-18' Ill 14°25" V 7°40 
| 4°45! Date of Birth 8.12.1975 VI 3°43! 
Time of Birth 11 05 A.M. Sat. 9°23' 
Place of Birth - Sirkakulam 
Day - Monday 
Ayanamsa (KP) 23"- 03' 
Star Balance of Dasa Mars 
Moon ae 
25"40'55" 5Y-OM-Od Vil 4°15 
XII 3°43' 
Nep. 18°14’ Ven. 7-57' 
ink X 12°23' Ura. 11°55’ VII 11°18" 
XI 7-40 
Sun 22°05’ IX 14°25’ 
Merc. 27°13' | Rahu 27°06' 


This is another case of congenital heart disease (present since 
birth). The first stage of operation was performed on 26-2- 79 at 
Perumbur Railway Hospital, Madras. A prominent feature of the chart 
is the absence of any affliction to Leo or Sun. Diagnosis of Heart 
diseases in all the cases presented in this paper have been 
confirmed by either professors of Medicine or Cardiologists as such 
errors are totally eliminated. The present chart will defy an answer 
unless affliction to the sign cancer is considered. In addition, Lord of 
IV bhava Venus is in exact square to Saturn. Though Mars is in IV 
bhava, affliction by Saturn, is a 


134 


necessary criterion to explain the valvular disease. The placement 
of Saturn in Cancer in this case can only be the possible 
explanation. Hence the sign Cancer also must be considered in 
Heart Diseases. Mars is IV has resulted in Surgery during Mars - 
Mercury - Saturn period. 


Chart NO.4 
V 11°20! : VII 6°33" VIE 5°52" 
Moh VI 10°35 Ura. 19°19’ | Sat. 12°54 
0°42'17" 
saat Date of Birth 7.8.1944 anu aey 
IV 9r11 Time of Birth 1-12 P.M. IX 6°25 
Hace of Birth - Sirkakulam Sun 21 °45' 
Oay - Monday 
Ayanamsa (KP) 23°-05' Ven 3°10" 
11 6°25" Star: Poorvashada Xx9"L1' 
pit Balance of Jupiter dasa Jup.9»3r 
Kethu 3°29 3Y-1M-26d Merc. 1B=56' 
Mars23"16!' 
Nep. 19"12' 
11 5°52’ 16°33" XII 10°35" XI 11 °20° 


NO. 4.: In this chart both Mars and Saturn are afflicting 
the sign Leo, the former by placement and the latter by 
aspect. The affliction of Saturn is responsible for the heart 
disease whereas Mars has resulted in surgical treatment on 
25-4-1977 during the period of Mercury - Rahu - Saturn. The 
dasa lord Mercury is associated with Mars 
. It is interesting to note that the sub-lord of IV cusp Jupiter is 
also afflicted by Saturn, whereas Mars is aspecting IV bhava. 


135 


Chart NO.5 


Rahu 11 °43' anus 
X 7°24" Moon XII 13°06" 6°46! 
16°21 '35" 144-4" 
XI 10°58' 
IX 6°32' Dateof Birth 15 111948 I 9°30" 
Time of Birth 7-30 PM. 
Hace of Birth - Sirkakulam 
Day * Monday 
Ayanamsa (KP) 23-08'Star bac 
Vill 9°30" Bharani ates 
Sat. 12°11’ 
V 10-58' IV 7°24' 
vil14°4 | Mars 28°21" | Pein 10 a Beat 
Jup. 6°32' VI 13°06' Rare 
Sun 29°59" | Venus 24°6' 


Chart No 5 : This chart belongs to a very unfortunate person 
who refused open Heart surgery When he received the call after a 
long period of waiting, from Christian Medical College Hospital, 
Vellore and later die. 


What has attracted my attention in this chart is why after having 
waited for surgery for a prolonged period, the person refused the 
call. A review of the cases where Heart Surgery was performed 
reveals association of Mars with IV bhava or Leo or Sun which is 
conspicuous by its absence in this chart. 


Saturn in Leo afflicting the sub-lord of IV cusp Kethu and IV lord 
Mercury by third aspect explains the heart disease. Mars is in no 
way connected with IV bhava or even with the Dasa lord during 
which period he received the call and refused it. 


136 


Chart NO.6 


ona: Merc 8°11' 
Venus 12°31 °24" 
Sat 318° | Mars 132" | RAM @28 | x 0°01 
vizeos' | Sun 15°59" | go47: ioc ied 
Vil 0°50 
Date of Birth 10-5-1966 wane 
V 1-18" Time of Birth 4-25 P.M. 
Place of Birth - Sirkakulam 
Day-Tuesday 
Ayanamsa (KP) 23-23' 
Star Utharashada 
moon 7 Balance of Sun dasa XI 1°18’ 
s34'36 2Y-11M-18d Ura. 22°11" 
IV 0°15" 
111 0°01' Ket. 2°24' Nep. 27°28' XII 2°28" 
10°17" 1 0°50’ 


Chart No. 6: This is a case of Valvular disease where affliction 

by Saturn, is not present to Leo or Sun or IV bhava whereas if we 
report to the study of sub-lord of IV cusp, Rahu, the causative 
factor becomes clear. Rahu is exactly aspected by Saturn (by 3rd 
aspect). Mars is afflicting both Sun and Cancer which indicates 
surgical treatment. | have predicted that operation will be performed 
during Mars - Saturn - Rahu period 6-7-81 to 5-9-82 as the three 
planets are significators of 1, 5, 11 (recovery) and 3, 12 
hospitalisation. 
Chart No. 7 : This chart was published in April 1978 issue of 
Astrology and Athrista on page 10. There is no affliction at all to 
cancer, Leo or Sun. Saturn is in 4 and is aspecting the sub-lord of 
IV Rahu. Mars is aspecting IV, surgery was performed as 
predicted in March, 78. 


137 


ChartNO.7 


Vill 29°50" IX 0-21” X 0-37' 
Keth 11-47' 
Vil 0°27’ 


Date of Birth 5.9.1959 

VI0°45" Time of Birth 6-40 A.M. XI 0°37" 

Hace of Birth - Sirkakulam 
Ayanamsa (KP) 23°-11' 
Balance of Moon Dasa 
7Y-9M-10d XII 0-45" 

V 0-37' Merc. 6-38' 

Ven. 12°37' 

Sun 18°31' 


10-27' 
Mars 6°13' 
Sat 7°17‘ Jup. 2-03’ Rahu 11°47’ 

IV 0-37' 10°21" Moon 13-59' 


Il 29°50" 


Conclusion : Totally 7 charts of Valvular heart Diseases are 
presented from which certain conclusions may be made. 


1. Affliction of Saturn is present in all the cases proving 
beyond doubt that it is a necessary criterion to diagnose Valvular 
Heart Disease. 


2. Affliction to sub-lord of IV cusp must also be considered 
as evidenced by Chart no. 6 


3. Different types of affliction may be responsible for different 
types of Valvular diseases. 


4. In 3 cases where surgery is already performed, Mars is 
connected with IV bhava, by placement or aspect. 


5. In 2 cases (no.2 and 6) where Surgery is predicted in 
future, Mars is not connected with IV bhava at all. If the prediction 
fails, it proves that for Heart Surgery to take place, Mars must be 


138 


associated with IV bhava. In chart no. (2) Mars is in Leo and 
in Chart No.6 Mars is in conjunction with Sun based on 
which prediction of surgery is made. 


6. In chart No (5) where a call for surgery was refused Mars is not 
all connected with IV bhava, Leo or Sun. 


A study of factors 4, 5, 6 should help to decide the place of Mars 
with reference to CARDIAC SURGERY. 


Case wise study will be sent for publication as and when an 


opportune time offers. 


GOOD LUCK! 


139 


FRIENDS ARRIVAL: KRISHNAMURTI 
PADHDHATI GIVES THE CLUE 


On 4-9-1980 evening at 7.30 p.m. my brother came to my room 
and wanted to know his friend's arrival. His friend had already 
promised to meet my brother in my room in the evening. Till 7-55 
p.m. he did not arrive. | asked for a number between 1 and 249. 
My brother mentiofied No.117, which falls in Kanya 17° - 46' 
Mercury sign, Moon star and sub of Mercury. Immediately | 
worked out the Ruling planets and the horary chart for the time of 


judgement. 


The horary Chart: 


No. 117 

Time 7-55 p.m. 

Day Thursday 

Date 4-9-1980 

Place Annur/ Coimbatore Dt. 

Ayanamsa : 11-00 N. 77-00 E 23-29 (K.P) 
Chart 


Vil 17°46" 


VII 18°6' 


IX 17°38 


X 16°52! 
Moon 
23°13' 


140 


VI17°14' XI 16°30" 
Rahu 25°18’ 

XI 17°14' 

Ket. 25°18' Sun 18°42' 

V 16°30" Jup. 25°21! 

Merc. 26°59" 

SAR) Sat. 4°26' 

Sete 11 18°06 

eee Ill 17°38" Asc. 17°46" 


Mars 10°37' 


Ruling planets: 


Day Lord Jupiter 

Moon Rasi Lord Mercury (Mithunam) 
Moon Star Lord Jupiter (Punarpusam) 
Lagna Sign Lord Jupiter (Meenam) 

Lagna Star Lord Saturn (Uttarattadhi) 
Lagna Sub Lord Rahu 

Lagna Sub Sub Lord Sun 

Cusps Sign Lord Star Lord Sub Lord 
1 Mercury Moon Mercury 
2 Venus Rahu Sun 

11 Moon Saturn Jupiter and 


Sub Sub Rahu 


Friends arrival is to be judged from houses 1 and 2 and 11. 


Significators: 


1st House : Mars occupies the lagna, Mercury rules it. Rahu 
is in Mercury's star. No planet in Mars star. 


2d House : Venus owns this house, and Sun and Jupiter are 
in Venus star. No planet in the 24, 


11*House : Rahu in 11* with Mars in its star. 


The sub sub lord of 11th, Rahu is placed in the 11 itself 
Rahu is one of the significators and is also among the 
ruling planets. So the person's arrival is sure. 


Rahu - Jupiter - Mercury are very strong significators. 


So when the zodiacal point co-ruled by the significators rises, 
the person will come surely. The lagna will touch this point at 8-40 
p.m. | said to my brother that his friend will come exactly at 8-40 
p.m. My brother waited and as was expected by me the person (my 
brother's friend) entered my Room at the time predicted, i.e. at 8-40 
p.m. My brother was astonished at the exactness of the prediction. 


GOOD LUCK! 


141 


HORARY ASTROLOGY : ITS USE 
IN PREDICTING MINOR EVENTS 


On 15th November 79, one of my colleagues was heard saying 
to another friend that he had received no letter from his wife for the 
last three weeks and that he was afraid and anxious as she was laid 
up. | interrupted him and asked him whether | could offer him help 
astrologically. He said readily "Yes, Sir, please if you can". 


He gave me No.89, without any hesitation, and immediately 
| set up a horary map. 
The details were ; 
Date and Time 15th November 79 at 6-27 p.m (IST) 
Longitude / Latitude 75-05 E/32 - 55 N 
Shri K.S.Krishnamurti 23-28-24 (as per 


Ayanamsa RE Manu's Tables) 
Number 89 (1 to 249) 
Ruling Plants: 
Ascendant Taurus 15-43-30 Ven/Moon/Sat 
Moon Virgo 10-57-06 Mer/Moon/Moon 
Day Lord Thursday Jupiter 
Planetary Positions: 
Planets Sign Lord Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Venus Jupiter Sun 
Moon Mercury Moon Moon 
Mars Sun Kethu Moon 
Mercury Mars Saturn Venus 
Jupiter Sun Venus Venus 


Venus Mars Mercury Venus 


142 


Saturn Mercury Sun Rahu 


Rahu Sun Kethu Saturn 
Kethu Saturn Rahu Saturn 
Il 29°13'22" Iv 2"13°20" | V.5°13°'22" 
11. 0°13'22" 
1 5°33'20" wats 
sthu VI 7-13'22 
Loree 7th cusp taken as Asc. 
6th cusp taken as =a 
2nd and so on Mars. 4°32 
XII 7*13'22" VII 5°33'20" 
Jup 14°11'47" 
Rahu 
10°54’23" 
X 2°13'22" VIIL0°13'22" 
aes ok Merc. (R) Sun Moon 
XI 5°13'22 9°34'06" 29°05'55" 4 0°47'06" 
Venus Sat. 01°10'42" 
20°17'28" IX 29°13’22" 
Cuspal Positions: 
Cusp Sign lord Star Lord Sub Lord 
I Saturn Mars Moon 
Vi Moon Saturn Mercury 
VII Mercury Sun Rahu 
XIl Saturn Sun Kethu 
Xl Jupiter Kethu Mars 
IX Mercury Mars Saturn 


Astrological Analysis: 


Moon is in Virgo the sixth house of the natural zodiac which 
is connected with hospital and public health. She owns Cancer, 
a watery sign. His wife's uterus had broken and had been 


143 


restitched by esarean. Moon owns the sixth house the house of 
sickness and disease, and occupies the 8th the house denoting 
danger, disease and depression. Moon is also conjoined with Saturn, 
lord of 12* in the 8*. Moon occupies its own star. The 12th reveals 
disease, accident and defect. 


To find out the ailment 

Mercury, the sub lord of sixth cusp, has gone to Scorpio, the eighth 
house of the natural zodiac which mainly rules ovaries, uterus, 
generative system and internal sexual organs. 


Mercury, the sub lord of sixth cusp, occupied the star of Saturn. 
Saturn shows chronic ailments and all sorts of complications. Saturn 
owns the 1st and 12th bhavas. It is stationed in 8th, an evil 
house. Besides, Saturn is the star lord of the 6th cusp. The sub 
lord of Mercury is Venus who owns the 4th showing that his wife is 
receiving treatment very near to her home town. Saturn the star 
lord of sixth house and the lord of the star in which the sub lord of 
the 6th cusp was deposited, clearly shows that his wife was under 
treatment in a hospital (Saturn being connected with the 8th and 
12th). But, how we can diagnose the particular disease? The 6th 
cusp is co-ruled by Moon, Saturn and Mercury as _ sign lord, 
star lord and sub lord respectively. Moon and Saturn in Virgo 
are responsible for bowels and intestine; Mercury in Scorpio rules 
uterus and ovaries. It can easily be diagnosed that the defect 
concerns uterus. The lady had been pregnant for over eight 
months, she had been operated upon as her uterus had broken 
and restitching by esarean had to be done. 


On scrutinizing the dasa system it is found that the dasa and 
the bhukthi belong to the Moon. Moon, as we have seen, rules the 
6th and occupies the 8th in its own star and sub, and is conjoined 
with Saturn, lord of the evil 12th. Suffering is thus indicated. 


144 


As the individual was afraid of his wife's life, let us analyse 
whether longevity is promised. 


Moon, the sub lord of the lagna, has connection with the 6th and 
8th showing disease and danger but not death, there being no 
connection with the death - inflicting houses. So | boldly predicted 
that she will suffer from sickness, but there is no fear to life. 


Salutations to Poojya Guruji for his charity and guidance through 
his marvelous contributions to the world of astrology in the shape 
of Krishnamurti Padhdhati Readers etc. 


GOOD LUCK 


145 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 
EXPLAINS DEATH 


1. In the month of November, 1979, | was shown the chart 
of a girl by another Krishnamurti Padhdhati Brother. He said that 
the girl had a very small span of life i.e. not more than 4 years. 
He wanted me to examine and let him know the approximate 
date of death. 


2. | took up the chart for analysis on 7-12-1979, Friday at 4- 
37 p.m. at New Delhi. The chart of the girl is as follows: 


i. Sex Female 

ii. Time of birth 5-25 p.m .(IST) 

iii. Date of Birth 19th October, 1976, Tuesday 
iv. Place of birth New Delhi, 28° 38’ N77° 12E 
v. Ananamsa 23°25’ 


Ruling planets at moment of judgement: Day Lord Venus / 
Lagna Lord Venus / Lagna Star Lord Moon / Moon Star Lord Saturn/ 
Moon Rasi Lord Moon. Kethu represents for Saturn. Mars, 
Jupiter conjoining with Rahu, aspect Kethu in Kumbha. 


Books Used : 
1. Universal Table of Houses 


2. Mahabala's Ephemeris. 


KETHU DASA UPTO 17-9-1977 


3. Cuspal positions: 


Cusp Sign Lord Star Lord Sub Lord 
| Jupiter Mercury Jupiter 
I Venus Sun Rahu 
HII Venus Mars Rahu 
VII Mercury Mars Jupiter 
Vill Mars Jupiter Moon 


146 


Xl Saturn Moon Jupiter 
XII Saturn Rahu Venus 
Chart 
11 0-09 
Asc. 26-22 | Kethu 10-21 ee IV 19-29 
Ill 26-00 
V 14-3 
XII 16-05 Saturn 
22-4 
Moon 
XI 14-43 11-36 
VI 16-05 
IX 26-00 Mars 13-50 Mercury 
Nep 18-38 Ura 13-22 
X 19-29 20-13 
Ven 5-06 Rahu 10-21 VII 26-22 
VIII 0-09 Sun 2-48 
4. Planetary Influences : 
House Owned by House Occupied by 
Planet StarLord Planet StarLord Planet Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Mars 6 8,9 7 7 Venus in 8 
Moon Kethu 5 . 5 1 Mercury in 6 
Mars Rahu 8,9 - 7 7 Mercury in 6 
Mercury Moon 4,7 5 6 5 Kethu in 1 
Jupiter Sun 1.10 6 2 7 Mercury in 6 
Venus Saturn 2,3 11,12 8 5 Saturn in 5 
Saturn Mercury 11,12 4,7 5 6 Sun in 7 
Rahu Rahu - - 7 7 Jupiter in 2 
Kethu Kethu .° - 1 1 Saturn in 5 
Uranus Rahu - - 7 7 Mercury in 6 
Neptune Mercury - 4.7 8 6 Kethu in 1 


147 


i. Rahu represents Sun and Mars by association and 
Venus by occupation. 


ii. Kethu represents Mars by occupation and Sun by 
aspect. 


Analysis: 


5. Whether a native has a long or short life, the houses, 1,3 
and 8 are to be enquired. The twelfth houses to these i.e. 2, 7 and 
12 are negation to longevity. These are the maraka houses. Besides 
the Bhadkasthana is also considered. The native is having a 
common sign as lagna i.e. pisces, the Badhakasthana is the 7th 
house. 

6. In the above chart let us first see the longevity of the girl. 
The sub Lord of the Ascendant and its position will indicate 
longevity. In this case the sub lord is Juipter who is positioned in 
the 2nd house. 2nd house is a Marakasthana. No planet is in 
Jupiter star. Jupiter aspects the cusp. Jupiter is in Sun star and 
Mercury sub. Sun owns the 6th house and is in the seventh 
another Marakasthana. Mercury is lord of 4 and 7 (Marakasthana) 
and is in 6 in the sub of Kethu. Thus we see that Jupiter is a strong 
malefic for longevity. 

7. Let us now examine the Marakasthanas viz. 2nd and 7th 
houses. Planets occupying them are Jupiter, Rahu, Mars, and Sun. 
We have above seen that Jupiter is a strong malefic. Rahu is in the 
7th (a Marakasthana) in his own star and Jupiter sub. Rahu is in 
Venus sign. Venus is lord of 2nd and 3rd houses. Thus Rahu is 
also a Maraka. Mars is in the 7th (a Marakasthana) and is in Rahu 
star. Rahu is also in 7th. Mars is in Mercury sub. Mercury owns the 
7* a Marakasthana. Thus Mars is also a strong malefic to longevity. 
In addition Mars owns the 8th house and aspects the 2nd cusp 
also. 

8. Sun is in 7* (Marakasthana) and owns 6th. Sun is in Mars 
star. Mars is also in 7* (Marakasthana). Sun is in sub of Venus 


148 


who owns 2nd (Marakasthana) and is in 8th house. Jupiter strongly 
aspects Vetius. Venus is in Saturn star and sub. Saturn is lord of 11 
and 12. 12th is negation to lagna. Thus Venus is also a malefic 
Venus is lord of 2nd house. The second house further falls in Sun 
star and Rahu sub. Both Sun and Rahu are in the 7th house. 
Mercury is the lord of the 7th house. Mars is the Star Lord and 
Jupiter the Sub Lord. Mercury is in the 6th and Jupiter and Mars are 
in the maraka houses. Saturn aspects the 7th house from the 5th. 
He is in Mercury star and Sun sub. Hence with the association of 
Mercury and Sun, Saturn is also a Maraka. 


9. Thus we find that all the planets excepting Moon are 
malefic and significators of the Maraka and Bhadakasthanas. Kethu 
also becomes a malefic as he will give results of Mars and Sun who 
are both Malefics. Now we have to find the dasa and bhukthi when 
death may occur. 


10.To eliminate, the ruling planets are used and found that 
Venus, Saturn and Kethu are common amongst the ruling planets 
and malefics. Hence death will take place in their conjoined period. 


11. At the time of judgment on 7-12-1979 the girl was 
running Venus dasa. Venus Bhukthi, Saturn anthra. In Saturn 
Anthra Mercury Sookshma runs upto 4-1-1980. Mercury is not a 
common significator as per ruling planets. Then comes Kethu 
Sookshma from 4-1-1980 to 15-1-1980. It is during this period that 
death actually took place. Death came to the girl on the afternoon of 
8th January, 1980. It was a Tuesday ruled by mars. On that day 
dasa and bhukthinatha Venus was transiting a Saturn sign, Mars 
Star and Jupiter sub. (all 3 planets are connected with 
Marakasthanas). Anthra lord Saturn had just turned retrograde and 
was transiting a Mercury sign, Sun star and own sub. (all 3 planets 
are connected with Marakasthanas). Sookshma lord Kethu was 
transiting Saturn sign, Rahu star and Rahu sub. (all 3 planets are 
connected with Marakasthanas). 


149 


Mode of Death 


12. The sub lord of 8th house Moon signifying lagna shows 
death in own place or at home as Moon is in Mercury sub and 
Mercury owns 4th house. Neptune in 8th house in Mars sign, 
Mercury star and Kethu sub shows an unnatural death due to 
poisoning. Mars, Lord of 8th in 7th indicates, a cut or a wound, 
blood, brain. Mars in 7th with Sun shows heat and burning/ Further 
they being with Rahu also shows a mysterious death. Moon sub lord 
of 8th is in Leo and in Kethu star and shows circulatory problems, 
sub lord of lagna and star lord of 8th, Jupiter, in Taurus signifies the 
neck. By combining these we come to the actual mode of death. 


13.The native was suffocated in her own residence by 
carbon monoxide (poisonous gas) coming from an angithi, while 
trying to reach safety, a heavy drum fell on her neck, the edge of the 
rusted drum cut into her neck and stopped blood circulation to the 
brain. She passed away before she could be taken to the hospital. 
Death came at about 3-40 p.m. when rising Ascendant at Delhi was 
in Venus sign, Mars star, Saturn sub. 


14.1 could tell my friend regarding the approximate date of 
death when we met days before it actually happened. But the mode 
of death has been corrected to the actual events after death took 
place. 


15. Fate is inevitable. Traditional astrology could have never 
explained the accurate nature and time of death. It is only due to 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati as propounded by our Guruji, the late prof. 
K.S. Krishnamurti that we can solve and explain such intricate 
problems clearly. Long live Krishnamurti Padhdhati. 


GOOD LUCK! 


150 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI’S MIRACLE 
IN DIAGNOSING DISEASES 


Pranam to Poojya Guruji 


The great learned astrologer the Astro-Scientist made simple 
theory in diagnosing diseases. Krishnamurti Padhdhati may be 
used to earn as a profession, but using Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
as a hobby is precious and rich in experiences. 


On 17-9-80 at about 11-00 a.m. a person approached me, making 
enquiries on astrology and finally the Krishnamurti Padhdhati was 
admired quoting with number of examples in the village where | 
am residing. 


He was eager to know about his wife. But he did not say anything 
about the matter. | gathered much boldness after praying the 
reliable guruji. | asked him for a number at once he deposed 76. 
It was 11-12 am. (IST) 


Astrological particulars as under: 
1. Date and Time : 17-9-80, Wednesday at 11.12 a.m .(1ST) 
2. Place of Judgement: 9 35 N and 77 40°E 
3. Use always K.P. Krishnamurti Ayanamsa 23 29' 


Nirayana Horary Chart to the given number 76 falls in Kataka 
Rasi. 7th falls in Makara. Taking 7th as lagna chart is given below. 


Cusp Sing Lord Star Lord Sub Lord 
| Saturn Moon Mercury 
Vi Mercury Rahu Mars 
Vill Sun Venus Mars 
Xl Mars Mercury Venus 
XIl Jupiter Venus Rahu 


Chart 


Planets Star Lord 
Sun Sun 
Moon Mercury 
Mars Rahu 
Mercury Moon 
Jupiter Sun 
Venus Saturn 
Saturn Sun 

Rahu Mer 
Kethu Mars 


House Significators 


| Kethu, Saturn Venus 
V Venus, rahu 


Ill 18-21 IV 20-21 V 20-21 VI 19-21 
Ven 16-39 
VII 
17-21 18-33-20 
Rahu 
24-28 
Vill 17-21 
Kethu 24-38 Jup. 28-06 
| 18-33-20 
XI 20-21 X 20-21 ee 
- i Sat 5-59 
X11 19-21 Moon Mars 19-08 | \erc. 18-04 
27-04-48 IX 18-21 


Sub Lord 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Moon 
Mercury 
Moon 
Jupiter 
Mercury 
Rahu 
Rahu 


IX Mars,\Kethu, Moon, Mercury, Rahu 


152 


Ruling Planets: 


Ascendant Scorpion Mars Saturn 
(East Horizon) 13°58 Rahu 

Moon's Scorpion Mars Mercury 
Position Jupiter 

Day Lord Wednesday 


Kethu represents Saturn and Mars 
Rahu represents Mercury and Moon. 
Both nodes are representing for Venus also. 


Balance in Mercury dasa Jupiter bhukthi Venus anthra 3 
months and 3 days. 


Experience has taught that Ruling Planets never err. These planets, 
reveal the matter also. 


Lagna Lord Mars owns 4 and 11 in 9. He is in Rahu's star, the 
node's seventh aspect to I5'. He is with Venus. Venus in 6th in 
watery sign in the star of Saturn. Saturn in 8 accident. Saturn owns 
1 and 2. Rahu represents Moon also. Moon in XI is watery sign. 
Star lord of lagnam Saturn in 8 owns 1 and 2 in Sun's star. Sun in 
Virgo the 8* accident, Conjoined Mercury i.e. 9 and 6. Star lord of 
Moon is Mercury in 9 owns 6 aspects 3 in Moon's star. 


Let us proceed with bearing in mind, the above conception. Moon 
rules the mind : 


She is in 11 owns 7 in the star of Mercury in 9 owns 6 in the sub of 
Jupiter in 8 owns 12 and 3. Moon is the indicator of Dasa 
Bhukthi, so it is no wonder the present time indicates the nature of 
the query. 


Lagna sub lord Mercury owns 6 and 9 in 9 in the star of Moon 
who is at 11 owns 7. 


153 


After these analysis | poked into the position of Lagnam. l.e. 
Capricorn is afflicted due to node's occupation. Owner Saturn in 8. If 
we go through the above immediate four paragraphs we find 1, 6 , 8, 
9, 12 bhavas. Here 1, 6,8, 12 are repeated. Hence after gathering 
courage | spelled out that the query is about the disease, connected 
with surprise or accidental because of 8* powerful connection. At 
once the person widened his eyes and looked at me utterly. After a 
few moments he replied in a confused tone. But | proceeded further. 
As Mars becomes chief the ruler of Aries: Head Scorpion: Female 
disease connected with monthly course in Libra: Sexual organs in 
the star of Rahu, the node in watery sign, definitely with monthly 
course irregularity because Saturn connected. Lagna lord Saturn in 
Sun's star a dry planet. Except Rahu and Moon other connected 
planets are in Virgo and Libra Dry signs. So | omitted the overflow of 
Bleeding and selected the irregularities and less of bleeding rather 
than normal flow. Mars the Brain ruler, Mercury the nervous ruler 
Jupiter the Mental intuition reveal regarding a Brain disorder but not 
much. So | told him she is suffering from irregularities of monthly 
course as well as a slight brain derailing. He really astonished. He 
replied nicely Sir, Sorry | tested you very much. Your every word is 
present. You told as though you have seen my wife. Your fantastic 
prediction is great and | do offer my apology for what you have been 
examined. 


Now let us see through Krishnamurti Padhdhati's Normal Manner. 
Krishnamurti Padhdhathi says the sixth cusp's sub lord 
connects 1 and 6, it definitely indicates disease. 


Another rmethod either the tenant or the owner of 6th 
bhavam signifying first; in their conjoined period disease will come. 


According to the nature of planets and signs diseases are to be 
diagnosed. 


Mars the sub lord of 6th in the star of Rahu in 7. Nodes are reflecting 


the effects of their conjoined planet, the owner where the nodes 
tenanted. The node in 7 very bad for longevity. The 


154 


natural malefic is the star lord of the sub of first. So here we can 
conclude the affliction. He is with Venus in 6 aspects first. Venus in 
Saturn's star who is in 8 owns 1 and 2. So the Venus Karaka planet 
of sexual organs in watery sign, mars who rules the monthly course 
of ladies in dry sign. Mars in Rahu's star who is in watery sign 
denote the disease. 


Moon's sub sub lord Venus in 6 aspects first doubly confirm the 
case. The querist agreed thoroughly the prediction and follows with 
a query on relief. 


Venus the owner of 5 and 10 may give a partial relief, but in the sub 
period of Jupiter cannot expect. Jupiter owns 3, the movements. 
The bleeding is running from uterus to exhaust way. So the 
movements do not co-operate. 12th shows defect. He is in 8 not 
favourable. Again he is in Sun's star deny in full volume. So Venus 
has been rejected Forget the sub. Moon's sub sub to Rahu's sub 
sub also will not cure in considerable level. Saturn can give the cure 
to certain level, where as his disposition threatens much. Venus the 
sub lord of 11 owns 5 and 10 in 6 will give mixed result. 


As far as concerning cure the following Kethu and Venus main 
periods will not give 100% relief. So as per Guruji's guidance ina 
technical manner | gave reply with boosting up his morale. 


But he did not stop his queries. He wanted further clarifications on 
her life. Mercury the sub lord of first owns 6 and 9 in the star of 
Moon in 11 (The bhadhakasthanam to movable sign Capricorn) 
Moon owns 7 the Marakathanam. the node Kethu occupies the first 
and equally signifies 2nd. Besides after completion of Jupiter's sub 
period Saturn follows, and the main period of Kethu starts. How | 
can predict the long life. But | did not reveal; My reply was in feeble 
manner which could be understood with a suspicion. 


In the same manner let us see one more case. 


155 


Astrological details are as under: Krishnamurti Padhdhati. 


Number - 6 

Date and Time : 9-7-80. Wednesday, 4-12 p.m. 
Palce : 9°35' and 77°40’ 

Always use 23°29’ 


Krishnamurti Ayanamsa 


Number 6 given by Husband chart is prepared to wife 
(Nirayana) taking 7™ house of the number as lagna. 


Chart 
VII 6-41 - . ea 
Ven 22-42 anes 
VI 0-41 VII 5-33-20 
Moon Mens) 
18-10-30 meus 
X 29-41 
Rahu 28-21 
XI 
What About My 28-41 
Wife's Illness? 

V 28-41 Jup 13-57 
Kethu Saturn 
28-21 28-35 

| XII 0-41 
IV 29-41 11 6-41 5-33-20 Mars 5-48 
II 3-44 
Bhavam Sub lord 
| Moon 
Vi Mars 
Vill Mercury 
Xl Rahu 
VII Rahu 
V Saturn 
xl Saturn 


156 


Sun Juipter Saturn 


Moon Moon Mercury 
Mars Sun Mercury 
Mercury Jupiter Venus 
Jupiter Venus Venus 
Venus Moon Sun 
Saturn Sun Mars 
Rahu Mercury Saturn 
Kethu Mars Saturn 


Ruling Planets: 


Lagna Scorpion 19-38 Mars, Mercury Venus 
Moon Venus, Mars, Saturn 
Day Lord Mercury 


Rahu represents Mercury and Moon 
Kethu represents Mars and Saturn 


What Ruling Planets speak: 


Mars rules brain internally and head externally. He is in 12; 
shows defect. He owns 7 and 2 not goo for long life. He is in the 
star of Sun, Sun in 9. Mercury in 9 owns 9 and 12. Mercury is in 

upiters star. Jupiter owns 3, 4 and 6. Jupiter is the tenant of 11. 
Venus the owner of 8 and 1; in Moon's star Moon in 8 owns 11. So 
1,6, 8 and 12 bhavas indicate the illness. 


Moon in 8 owns 11 in the star of her own and in the sub of 
Mercury lord of 12 shows defect and threatens the chronic illness 
and in a fixed sign confirms not new, the old case. Moon also 
reflects the nature of the query. Lagna sub lord Moon, no need 
to further analysis. 


Nature of the Disease : 


Sub lord of 6 is Mars in 12 in Sun's star in Mercury's sign 
Gemini. Here | want to give an explanation. 


Aries, Gemini, Leo, Sagittarius and pisces. The first-Brain, 
the third - mental way the fifth - mental intelligence working 


157 


capacity of brain, the 9th; the mental intuition and the 12th; the 
secret working and hidden things especially the mental working on 
unseen matters. There are the natural zodiacal signs and their 
functions are studied, through their bhavas and signs. The bhavam 
of 1,3, 8,5 and 12 are also to be considered. Hence the planets are 
also classified as the following : 


Mars - Brain 

Mercury - Nervous 

Sun - Intelligence / vitality 
Jupiter - Intution and secrecy. 


Lagna lord Venus in 8 has been afflicted. Venus in the star of Moon, in 8 
is afflicted. Moon reflector or present position of Brain is studied through. 
Hence lagna has been badly afflicted. Sub lord of first bnava is also Moon. 
Readers may observe the Luminary connects the Taurus a voice sign and 
responsible for eyes then how | am on mental connection. Here one 
Clarification is given like this. Mars the star lord of lagnam, in the star of Sun 
(Sun is also luminary responsible for eyesin 9 in Mercury's sign conjoined 
with Mercury. So gave up eyes, throat etc. Here Mercury plays in two roles. 
So | gave much importance to Gemini, Mercury and the third sign as well as 
9th bhavam supporting with 12th bhavam Virgo. Mars from 12 aspects 3rd, 
6th and 7th. Mercury aspects 3 and four. Sub lord of moon who decides the 
matter and period aspects first. Here | can declare that "Your wife is suffering 
from mental disease". But | did not spell out anything. | analysed further like 
this. 


As the 8th (the doctors doingand the 12th either separation or bed - ridden 
or hospitalization. The fourth bhavam profession of Doctor, 8th Bhavam 
money receipts of Doctor, like these | analysed on these aspects. So 
deposed like this : 


Your wife's brain derail caused you much disturbance, loss of peacefulness, 


loss of money and doctors say that she has no defects; but she is quite OK. 
Even X-rays might have been taken 


158 


and psychiatric specialists, might have examined and consequence 
of them were nothing wrong. Even it is also possible that four doctor 
may diagnose four or five types of illness. Because the chief player 
Mercury is here. What he replied to the above statement. He told 
Sir, you are 100% correct. Neither doctors agree in diagnosing nor 
able to say that she has been suffering from Brain Disorder. 


Finally he asked, "What | should do?" 


| Said : You simply say to a psychiatric specialist a doctor in mental 
disease, to give her mental treatment. You will get a cure or relief. 


Let us see whether he will listen and do this. If cure is promised he 
will do this otherwise not. 


Saturn the sub lord of 11 in 11 in the star of Sun in 9 afflicted 
bhavam in the sub of Mars in 12. Of course he will follow this advice 
to a low volume. But cure is denied. The disposition of Saturn in 11 


owns 5 will give a slight relief in a delayed time. 


As it was predicted eventhough the sub period of Saturn has been 
running, no cure or change has been found hither - to. 


GOOD LUCK! 


159 


KP BIRTH TIME RECTIFICATION 


A friend gave me the birth details of his eldest son for casting 
of horoscope and for a simple life Reading. The details supplied 
were as follows: 


Date of Birth 28-2-1945 
Time of Birth 8-10 p.m. 


Place of birth Karur (Tiruchirapally dist) 


| could not immediately attend to the work as | was busy 
otherwise, next day as soon as | saw the birth data, at once it struck 
me that the time mentioned was not quite clear. It may be the 
present IST or war-time IST. During wartime, people used to record 
the birth time, but failed to say it is war time or otherwise. 


From 1st September 1942 to 14th October 1945, the Indian Standard 
Time was advanced by one hour all over India including present 
Bangladesh and Pakistan for purposes of day-light saving during the 
war period, and was thus 6 hours and 30 minutes ahead of 
Greenwich Mean Time. Any recorded time of this period should, 
therefore, be reduced by one hour to get IST. Now the question is 
whether the person has mentioned this war-time IST as it is or the 
present IST after subtracting one hour form the recorded birth time. 
So what is to be done immediately to start the work? As the 
gentleman was much away from this place, he could not be 
contacted. 


Is there any fool-proof method to decide the matter beyond any 
shadow of doubt? except those well versed in K.P system. First of all 
there are no important past events available to check the horoscope 
and thus ascertain the time of birth. | thought of some methods in 
traditional Astrology like tatwa Siddhanta method, prasna etc. Finally 
| came to the conclusion that they are not decisive, but highly 
contradictory, one rule contradicting 


160 


the other. After much cogitation, the choice fell in K.P System, 
namely the Ruling Planets method. K.P has , so far, guided me 
correctly in all the cases | have resorted to . As my urge to know the 
correct time of birth of the person was very strong, | resolved 
to use the Ruling Planet Method. 


At the time of judgement 


Lagna 5-4 

Rahu 18-31 
Moon 4-1 Sukra 8-12 
Rasi Chart Buda 24-33 
for the moment Kuja 29-13 


Guru (R) 
24-25 


Sun 12-42 


Kethu 18-31 
Sani 28-53 
Time of judgement 9-30 pm 
28-8-1985 
Thursday - Trivandrurn 
Ruling Planets: 
Asc. Star Lord Kethu 
Asc. Rasi Lord Mars 
Moon star Lord Mars 
Moon Rasi Lord Saturn 
Day Lord Jupiter (R) 


161 


Rahu in Mesha Rasi agent of Mars - as such Rahu is a 
powerful Ruling Planet being in Lagna. 


Mercury can be a ruling Planet, being in close conjunction with 
Mars. Mars strongly aspects Moon. So Moon can be a weak ruling 
planet. Saturn aspects Mars and Mercury, and Rahu too. So they 
can represent Saturn. Saturn being in close conjunction with Kethu, 
Saturn can represent it. That time at which these ruling planets 
agree with the Ascendant of the person, that is , the Rasi Lord, Star 
Lord, and Sub Lord, is the correct birth time of the person. Now let 
me work out the Ascendant for both the times 


8-10 pm (assuming it as IST) 

Minus 18 minutes correction for the place to get the Local 
Mean Time 

LMT is 7-52 pm 

Sidereal time; 6 hours 24 minutes 11 seconds 

Ascendant 13 degrees 4 minutes in Kanya Rasi 

(Lord Budha, star lord Moon and sub lord Rahu) 

8-1NN pm as war - time IST (Includes 1 hour) 

IST is 7-10 pm LMT is 6-52 pm 

Sidereal time:5 hours 24 minutes 4 seconds 

Ascendant 26 degrees 58 minutes in Simha Rasi 

Position : Lord Sun, star lord Sun. and sub lord Moon 

Analysis: 


As sun is not at all a ruling planet, | took 8-10 pm as the 
correct birth time and worked out the horoscope. * 


162 


Reason for choosing (I): 


Mars occurs twice in the ruling planets. Rahu, posited in Mesha 
and that too in Lagna, becomes a powerful ruling planet. Mercury 
being in close conjunction with Mars, becomes another ruling planet. 
Saturn is in close conjunction with Kethu. So it can represent Kethu. 
Moon is powerfully aspected by Mars. So Moon can also act as a 
ruling planet. So practically all the powerful agents agree with the 
planets influencing the Ascendant in the first case. Even retrograde 
Guru is aspecting Mars, Saturn also aspects Mars powerfully. 


It may be said that Sun being posited in Kethu star can also be 
taken as a ruling planet. But Guru and Sani do not aspect Sun. Only 
in the first case the Ruling planets are In full agreement with the 
planets influencing the Lagna, though in an indirect way. The 
final decisive point is the coming of the Node Rahu as the Lagna 
cusp sub lord of the person. But for Rahu, some doubts would 
have lingered. On the 3rd day | contacted the person concerned 
and it transpired that the time given by him is only present IST. So 
K.Rhas come out wonderfully accurate. Long Live to K.P. System. 


GOOD LUCK 


163 


THE BUSINESS MAN & HIS PLANETS 


Those who are in service can get their salary on a specified date 
and their income is regulated. Businessmen have neither steady 
income nor regulated increase. They may be fortunate or unfortunate 
or one may follow the other. Their profit or loss is varying. As business 
is a speculation, they take the risk. So, a businessman can thrive only 
when his 2nd and 11th houses are not afflicted. Planets in earthly 
signs are more favourable though those in other signs. If the 
significator is in a common sign, he may take up another line of 
business and concentrate on it without severing his connection with 
the existing business. A businessman may be engaged in service and 
regarding to the dasa and the bhukthi, he may take up business or, if 
already doing business, he may expand his activity by taking up 
additional business. Houses 2, 6 and 10 are always judged for 
profession whether it is service or business. 


Second house indicates Income and it maybe by any means. Sixth 
house indicates payment made by another. Tenth house shows the 
main profession. It may be business when 7th house also indicates 
and the significators of houses 7 and 10 are well disposed. Eleventh 
house indicates profit, gain, increase in income and improvement in 
status. The 12th house shows leaving one and taking up another. The 
sub-lord in a moveable sign shows change of institution; in a common 
sign, he shows temporary change; if, in a fixed sign, no change at all. 
If the change is to take effect, the dasanatha will, among others, have 
the portfolio of change. It gives the result in the sub-period of another 
planet which contributes for change, as it is the conjoined effect of 
both. 


In this article, it is proposed to deal with the various problems that may 
ordinarily be faced with in business or those that may 


164 


be upper most in the mind of a businessman. As most of these 
queries were answered by the horary method, for which | have a great 
fascination, the respective charts were picked up from my files in order 
to make this special article for the Annual number comprehensive and 
representative. Whenever there was scope, additional problems were 
introduced and solved. As such, readers should not take it a mess or 
take it for granted that a hundred questions, irrespective of the subject 
matter, can be judged from one and the same horary figure. | shall first 
deal with change in profession. 


Change in Profession : 

"Will | leave the present job and take up business." asked a 
disgruntled gentleman, giving No.48. It was 6-30 a.m. at Madras on 
Thursday, the 12th October, 1978, when this query was judged. The 
horary map of the heavens is as follows. 


X 2-45 
Kethu 2-4 XI 5-45 
XII 8-45 | 8-40-0 
IX 1-45 Il 4-45 
Jupiter 
12-32 
Moon 
29-51 Ill 1-45 
VIII 4-45 Satum 
16-0 
Ven 28-6 
Vil Nep. | Mars 21-41 | Rahu 2-4 
Ura.1-: IV 2-45 
ooo aes Fortune 12-55) ou, 94-54 
Vi 8-45 Lagna 5-45 
Merc. 3-1 


Mars dasa balance yrs 3-6-29 Mars dasa Saturn bhukthi 
runs upto 11-11-1978. 


Planet Star Sub 
Sun Mars Rahu 
Moon Mars Saturn 


165 


Mars Jupiter Jupiter 


Mercury Mars Venus 
Jupiter Saturn Mars 
Venus Jupiter Venus 
Saturn Venus Sun 
Rahu Sun Jupiter 
Kethu Jupiter Rahu 
Uranus Jupiter Jupiter 
Neptune Mercury Moon 
Fortuna Rahu Mercury 


Whether it is service or business, houses 2,6,10 are to be judged. 
If the querent is to leave the present job the significator, will occupy a 
moveable sign, if in a common sign, he may take up another business 
without leaving his present job; if in a fixed sign, he will be unable to 
augment his income by taking up some other line. 


Jupiter is lord of 7 and 10 in the 2nd house. Mars and Venus are in the 
constellation of such an extraordinarily beneficial Jupiter. Mars is in 
Jupiter sub itself, while Venus is in her own sub Kethu occupies 
Pisces owned by Jupiter, where the 10th cusp falls, and represents 
Jupiter. No planet in the stars of Kethu. Kethu is in the sub of Rahu in 
3, while being in the star of Jupiter. Lord of 2 is Moon. No planet in 
Moon stars. Moon is in the sub of Saturn in 3. 


Lord of 6 is Mars. Sun Moon and Mercury are in Mars stars. Sun is in 
the sub of Rahu, Moon in sub of Saturn, and Mercury in the sub of 
Venus. 


To-day is Thursday. Moon is in Capricorn, Mars star. The lagna is in 
Libra Mars star. Mercury, Mars and Venus are in Lagna sign. 


Mars being Moon's star lord and Venus being Lagna sign Lord at the 


moment of judgement are strong. Jupiter is lord of 10 in 2 in the star of 
Rahu in 3 and in the sub of Mars, lord of 6. 


166 


As the sub is beneficial Jupiter will give the change. Kethu, also 
represents Jupiter, is stronger than Jupiter. 


The dasanatha being Mars will give him the boldness to take the risk. 
Therefore, as Mars is in the constellation of lord of 7 and 10 in 2, he 
will surely change over to carry on his own business in Mars dasa 
Venus bhukthi Jupiter anthara from 21st December 1980, when Sun 
transits in Sagittarius Kethu star Moola, Mars, sub on Mrigasira star- 
day. 


At the time of judgement, Jupiter, Saturn, Mars and Venus are the 
ruling planets, and the lagna is Libra. Mars is lord of 2, and Jupiter is 
in 10 both Venus and Mars are in the star of Jupiter in 10, (and the 
10th Cusp in a moveable sign denotes that the change is certain). 


According to the horary chart, Venus is dignified in 5th house and 
Jupiter is exalted in 2nd house. Venus and Mars are conjoined. Mars 
is lord of 6 and 11 in the star of Jupiter, lord of 7 and 10 in 2. Seventh 
house denotes the public, 6th house in gain to or receipt of money by 
querent, 11th house denotes gains and 2nd house denotes his 
earings and increase of bank position. Fifth house denotes 
entertainment and Venus in 5 is the chief governor for cinema. As 
such, he will run a cinema theatre. 


Is the time fortunate to start business? 
A native of Lyallpur, who was eager to start business on his own 
account desired to know what the stars indicated. The number given 


was 117. The matter was judged at Madras at 5-32 a.m. on 
Wednesday/Thursday, 5th October, 1978. 


Jupiter dasa Jupiter bhukthi runs upto 27-6-1979. 


Planet Star Sub 
Sun Moon Mercury 
Moon Jupiter Jupiter 
Mars Rahu Venus 


167 


Mercury Moon Venus 
Jupiter Saturn Moon 
Venus Jupiter Kethu 
Saturn Venus Venus 
Rahu Sun Jupiter 
Kethu Jupiter Rahu 
Uranus Jupiter Jupiter 
Neptune Mercury Moon 
Fortuna Jupiter Jupiter 
Vil 
reeete Vill IX 17-59 | X 16-59 
Kethu WP 
2-26 
VI 17-59 Jup 11-35 
XI 16-59 
bis Sat 15-13 
XII 17-59 
N Ven. 28-15 Rahu 2-26 
55 6 Mars 21-10 | 17-46-40 
a5 oe Ura 21-* a 
IV 16-59 Aan Be AD Sun 17-57 
Il 17-59 117-49 Mercury 
Mtr 16-58 21-16 


This horary chart was considered at a moment on Wednesday 
ruled by Mercury lord of 10. The Moon was transiting in the 2nd house 
as lord of 11, in Libra, and Venus in her own sign in 2, and dignified. 
The star was that of Jupiter in 10. The ascendant was Virgo, in the 
star of Moon. The Ruling Planets thus connected to 2, 10 and 11 
indicated that he would be a successful businessman. But this would 
require further examination with reference to the dasa-bhukthi that 
may operate in the future, to assess the prospects. 


Mars in Lagna shows his desire to be independent and that he is 


prepared to take the risk. The ascendant in the constellation of Moon, 
lord of 11 in 2 in the constellation Jupiter in 10, promises 


166 


name, fame and reputation. The sub governed by Mercury, lord of 
10 in the start of moon, lord of 11, shows that Mercury will ensure 
speedy turn-over, peace, pleasure and prosperity, publicity and 
profits. Dasanatha Jupiter being lord of 7 and 10 in the sub of 
Moon in 2 shows that he will do business. 


Will | gain? 

The 7th house denotes the customer of those who buy from him. 
They pay for the goods purchased. To that extent of the money 
paid, it is loss to the customers and so it is gain to the querent. This 
is shown by the 6th house, as it is 12 to the 7 th house. The 11th 
house denotes gains or profits. So, houses 6 and 11 indicate gains 
to the querent. 


Kethu is in 6 and no planet in its stars. Saturn is in 11 as lord of 6. 
Jupiter is in Saturn star. Jupiter is the dasa and bhukthi-natha, who 
connects houses 6 and 11 in one stroke. It is in the sub of Moon, 
lord of 11 in 2. It is an exceedingly fine position and then cannot be 
a better configuration for the querist gaining in this business. 


Will there be competition? 

The 7th house denotes the competitors or rivals. The 7th cusp is in 
Pisces. There is no planet in 7. Jupiter is lord of 7 in the 10th 
house. From the 7th house, the 10th is the 4th house, and so 
Jupiter is unfavourable to the competitors by occupation. Jupiter is 
in the star of Saturn in 11 and in the sub of lord of 11. From the 7th 
house, the 12th is the 6th house and the 5th is the 11th house, 
promising gains to competitors. But lord of 11 from the 7th house is 
occupying. But lord of 11 from the 7th house is occupying the 5th 
from the 7th, which is Vrayabhava (12th) to the 6th house from the 
7th. Saturn, who has to offer gains to the competitions, occupies 
the 5th house from the 7th So, the competitors have to lose, more 
especially due to the fact that the dasanatha and bhukthinatha, 
Jupiter is in such a Saturn's star and in the sub of lord of 11 in 2. All 
these are favourable to 


169 


the querent. When the 12th house to the 6th querent. When the 12th 
house to the 6th house of the competitors operates their efforts to 
undermine the querent will not be successful. Thus the querent will 
reign supreme and be rid of Skirmishes from his competitors. 


When will my product be popular? 

Jupiter, the dasa and bhukthi lord, is in 10 in the star of Saturn ina 
fixed sign; denoting that in his days, progress will be slow, gradually 
and steadily. Mercury is lord of 10 in the ascendant and Mars, lord of 
3, is also in the Ascendant. Mars, lord of 3 in the star of Rahu in 12 
and sub of Venus in 2 gives coldness to spend on advertising and 
publicity in Jupiter dasa Mercury bhukthi. Dasanatha Jupiter in a 
moveable sign shows some changes and expansion and Mercury 
denotes plurality of interest. Mercury in a common sign shows that in 
his sub period his activities will expand in Mars anthra. Mars being 
lord of 3 and there being no planet in this stars, denotes agency for an 
industry or commission business. The bhukthi lord Mercury also 
denotes representative, agent, etc. 


May | take in a partner? 

Partner is indicated by the 7th house. The sub lord of 7th cusp, 
Mercury, is also the sub lord of the 11th cusp and lord of 10. in the 
constellation of Moon, lord of 11. Mercury shows more than one 
partner and strong tie of partnership, as it is in the sub of Venus in 2, 
establishing cordial relationship. The dasanatha, Jupiter, in the 
constellation of Saturn, lord of 5 in 11 strengthen the tie of friendship 
in partnership business. 


Lord of 7 in the constellation of occupant of 11 and sub of lord of 11 
and lord of 11 in the star and sub of lord of 7 shows that whoever it be 
he selects as partner or whoever takes him as partner will have 
permanent tie and that it will be profitable. Jupiter is 10 indicates that 
his partner will be honest and reliable. 


170 


Which partner will be helpful to me? 


Eleventh house indicates your friends. Saturn in 11 shows that 
you will have a few friends; who will be helpful to you. The dasanatha, 
Jupiter is in the constellation of Saturn and in the sub of Moon lord of 
11. That means their partner who is born on Thursday or with his 
Ascendant is Sagitatarius of Pisces of Meena at birth was transiting in 
punarvasu, Visakha or Poorvabjadra will be helpful. 

Mars in the star of Rahu in 12 shows that whoever is born with Mars 
as ruling planet at birth will be you secret enemy. It is desirable not to 
cultivate the friendship of such persons. 


Fortunate in Business 


A 32 year old businessman, who entrained hopes of becoming 
rich, gave No. 117, to know the prospects. This was analysed at 
Madras at 8.05 P.M. on Sunday, the 10th September 1978. The map 
of the heavens is given below:- 


[== 
17-46-40 T HI 1/881 IX 17-51 x ). &1 
Kethu 3-42 

17-59 os 
Tails XI). &1 
eat. AR\P /& 
Sat )*8/ 
J=1 17-51 
Fn*,& 
oe H\N) 1&0 Rahu 
==)/&1 
: ort. 8-5+&,( BRO O**& ) +8 
= * 
AZIN (&, =4)/&1 IRY1& 1/8 y.8,( 
AN\] (&* 


Balance of Kethu dasa yrs. 6 Months 10 and days 16. 


Planet Star Sub 
Sun Venus Mercury 
Moon Kethu Kethu 171 


Mars Mars Mercury 


Mercury Kethu Jupiter 
Jupiter Saturn Kethu 
Venus Rahu Jupiter 
Saturn Kethu Mercury 
Rahu Sun Saturn 
Kethu Saturn Saturn 
Uranus Rahu Mars 
Neptune Mercury Sun 
Fortuna Kethu Jupiter 
Cusp 

H Rahu Sun 

Xl Mercury Mercury 


The 2nd house indicates the bank position; the 10th house 
indicates business, name, fame, reputation, honour or profession. 
That which one makes as gain or profit or that which is received as 
reward or donation is judged from 11th house. All that occurs from 
11th house is one's own and can be regained by oneself. Unless 
somebody gives, nothing can be received. This is judged from the 6th 
house. 

Planets owning or occupying a house can give the results of those 
houses in the periods and sub periods of the planets in any of the 
three stars of there is no planet in any of the three constellations, the 
owner and the occupant will indicate the results of the houses owned 
and occupied, other than what they have to offer according to the lord 
of the constellation in which the owner or the occupant is posited. 
Occupation of a constellation is stronger than occupation of a house. 


The significators of houses 2, 6,10 or 11, which are in the sub of 
significators of 2, 6 or 11 give wealth during their periods. A planet 
may be the significator of 2, 6 10 or 11 but if it is not in a favourable 
sub, that planet can not be expected to increase the bank position 
satisfactorily in its period or sub-period. Though 


172 


everybody has the significators of houses 2, 6,10 and 11 in favourable 
sub, the period of that significator of the sub-period of another benefic 
must operate in life. If the lord of the sub- period does not cooperate, 
riches cannot be enjoyed. The dasanatha and the bhukthinatha should 
not be in affliction by aspect. Evil sub-lords either make the native 
lose, or he will be unable to make money in the period of the planet 
and the sub- lord. 


Houses 2 and 11 are primary and it is most important that the sub- 
lords of the cusps should be significators of 2, 6, 10 or 11, or 
otherwise, it will not be possible to improve the bank position. Venus 
who represents Goddess of wealth must be well-placed. Favourable 
aspect with Jupiter is advantageous. 


In this chart, the sub-lord of the 2nd cusp is Sun. Sun is in the star of 
Venus, lord of 2 and Venus is signified. Venus is in 12 to it's own 
bhava may be considered to be evil, but it should be noted that she is 
in her own sign and not in a different sign. So, it is not bad. Sun is in 
the sub of Mercury in 11. Good. The sub-lord of the 11th cusp, 
Mercury is in the constellation of Kethu in 6 and in the sub of Jupiter in 
10. It is not bad. That means Mercury is not so much capable of best 
owing riches as Sun. 


No planet in 2, the lord of which is Venus. Sun in Venus star is in the 
sub of Mercury in 11. Fair. Venus is in the Sub of Jupiter in 10. Not 
satisfactory. Kethu occupies the 6th house. Moon, Mercury and Saturn 
are in the stars of Kethu. Moon in the sub of Kethu is excellent, Saturn 
in the sub of Mercury in 11 is also excellent, Mercury in the sub of 
Jupiter is not satisfactory. Lord of 6, Saturn is in the 11th house. 
Jupiter and Kethu are in Saturn star. Jupiter in the sub of Kethu and 
Kethu are in the sub of Saturn are excellent. 


Jupiter in 10. No planet in his stars. Jupiter with sub of Kethu is 
excellent. Lord of 10, Mercury, occupies 11th house and no planet in 


his stars. Mercury in the sub of Jupiter is not satisfactory. 


173 


Moon, Saturn, Jupiter and Kethu will contribute in a great 
measure to financial success. Sun will contribute to a lesser extent. 
However, though Moon is an excellent significator for riches, as 
Moon is forming a square the Kethu., the dasanatha, Moon bhukthi in 
Kethudasa will show loss or it does not at all contribute to riches. 


According to this horary chart Kethu dasa is operating. In this dasa, 
the sub periods of Kethu, Sun, Jupiter and Saturn will increase the 
bank position considerably. As fortuna is in the constellation of Kethu 
and sub of Jupiter, and as there is no planet in the stars of Jupiter, 
Kethu dasa Jupiter bhukthi will be exceedingly profitable, not with 
standing the trine between them is separating. Moon bhukthi has to 
be discounted, as it will give a set back. Even in other bhukthis, since 
the dasanatha is a benefic, the antras of Kethu, Jupiter, Saturn and 
Sun will be fortunate to some extent. 


Will my accounts show profit or loss in 1977-78? 


A gentleman, who was carrying on business in Nagpur, 
desired to know whether his Balance-sheet, which was_ being 
prepared, would show profit or loss in the accounting period 
1977-78 that had just ended. The number given was 197. This 
was judged at Chennai at 7-26 a.m. on Monday, the 21st 
August, 1978, the chart for which is presented below: 


Saturn dasa Venus bhukthi operates upto 30-8-1978. 


Planet Star Sub 
Sun Kethu Moon 
Moon Saturn Venus 
Mars Moon Saturn 
Mercury Kethu Kethu 
Jupiter Saturn Saturn 
Venus Moon Kethu 
Saturn Kethu Saturn 
Rahu Sun Saturn 


174 


Uranus Rahu Mars 
Neptune Mercury Sun 
Fortuna Venus Mars 


Ill 20-14 
Moon 
10-19 

Kethu 4-49 


VI 14-14 


Mer(R) 10-14 


Sun 4-14 
1 11-53-20 Sat 9-41 


VIIl 16-14" 


Fort. 17-58-20 


Rahu 4-49 
Mars 17-3 
X 21 -14 IX 20-14 


Ura 19-16 Ven 20-05 


Although it is not possible to say that the profit or loss will be so 
many lakhs in exact figures, it is possible to estimate, on the strength 
of the significators, whether the accounting period will end in loss or 
profit. 

Am | Lucky? 

To know whether he is lucky or unlucky, the 12th house has to be 
examined. The 12th cusp is in Sagittarius. No planet in 12, the lord of 
which is Jupiter. It is a natural benefic. No planet in any of the stars of 
Jupiter. Jupiter is in the 6th house in the constellation and sub of lord 
of 2, Saturn. Therefore, the money he has invested in business will 
fetch considerable return. He is Lucky. 

To Know the position of the accounts in accounting period that has 
first ended (his accounting period is from July to June) we should 
know the strength of the lords of the dasa and bhukthi which operated 
in 1976-78. Only then a comparative study is 


175 


possible. To know the strength of planets, houses 2, 6,10 and 11 
must be analysed and the benefics ascertained. 


Moon and Kethu in 2nd house. Sun, Mercury and Saturn are in Kethu 
star. Sun is in the sub of Moon in 2, Mercury in the sub of Kethu, and 
Saturn is in his own Sub. Saturn is lord of 2. Moon, Jupiter and Kethu 
all in Saturn stars. Moon in the sub of Venus in is no good. Jupiter 
and Kethu in the sub of Saturn are good. 


Jupiter in 6 and no planet in Jupiter stars. Jupiter is in the sub of 
Saturn. Good. 


No planet in 10, the lord of which is Venus. No planet in Venus stars. 
Venus is in the sub of Kethu in 2. Good. 


No planet in 11. Mars is lord of 11. No planet in Mars stars. Mars is in 
the sub of Saturn. Good. Sun, Venus and Mercury are first rate 
benefics. Retrograde Mercury can give beneficial results after he 
resumes direction. Jupiter is a second rate benefic Mars, Saturn and 
Kethu are third rate benefics. In the light of this, the planetary periods 
have to be examined. 


To estimate the accounts position in 1977-78, the strength of planets 
that operated in 1976-77 has to be seen. 1976-77 in Saturn dasa 
Venus bhukthi, the anthras of Mars. Rahu and Jupiter operated. 
Saturn is a third rate benefic and Venus is a first rate benefic. Mars is 
a third rate benefic and Jupiter is a second rate benefic. Rahu is a 
malefic. As against this background, let us examine the period 
1977-79. In this period, part of Jupiter anthra, and the whole of 
Mercury anthras operated in Saturn dasa Venus bhukthi, all the antra 
lords are benefics. In the previous accounting period, the whole of 
Rahu anthra would have been a dull period, accounting for five 
months. In 1977-78 the sales would have been uniformly good. 
Therefore, the year 1977-78 would have registered increase of 
business turn-over and consequently by the balance-sheet would 
show better profits in 1977-78 than the previous year. 


176 


Prospects for 1978-79 


In this accounting period, major part of Kethu anthara in 
Saturn dasa Venus bhukthi and the whole of Sun bhukthi will 
operate. Sun is of course, a first rate significator. However, as he is 
lord of 8, there would be some obstacles in other directions. Rahu in 
the constellation of Sun, would be a better significator to cause worry 
and impediments. So, Sun will not do much damage. As such, 
1978-79 should be a still better period than 1977-78. The estimation 
for 1977-78 proved to be correct. 
Will | become the Managing Director? 
A gentleman born at 2.20.24 p.m. on 27th April, 1935, at latitude 10 
N 45 and Longitude 76 E 30 Desired to know the Managing Director 
of the company, on the Board of Directors of which he was a Director. 
His horoscope is furnished below: 


I-= Ur. 8-51-+. X 12-34-50 
aa IRY_| = 
(& . &. IX 12-5-15 *(Q+&, roe 
Me 13-12-7 :Z\*_YR 


Su 13-19-13 * 8) &, + 


FNurn ?RAT 
8518 ( +8) 
[== ; 
1, B+ a 
)(&53-50 
AZZY 
*/855-5) I )(,,8 5.14 
VI 10-53-50 Bep. (R$ 
ENT_ 180-0 
+&) &, 


Jup. (R) 


eee - ep II 10-46-46 
)*&t, 60 III )* 85-15 AN\|#ES 
)5-51& 


Balance of Mars dasa at birth yrs. 4-0-22. 


Interested students, working the horoscope will find the 
cusps different from what they have calculated, as, in this 
horoscope, the cusps have been worked to the geocentric 
terrestrial latitude of birth place. | have been doing this from last 
year after the publication of my article in the Annual Number. 


177 


Planet Star Sub 


Sun Kethu Mercury 
Moon Mars Saturn 
Mars Moon Saturn 
Mercury Kethu Mercury 
Jupiter Jupiter Venus 
Venus Moon Kethu 
Saturn Rahu Kethu 
Rahu Sun Saturn 
Kethu Jupiter Rahu 
Uranus Kethu Jupiter 
Neptune Venus Rahu 
Fortuna Mercury Jupiter 


As the native is a Director on the Board, his becoming the 
Managing Director would denote a higher status and production, for 
which the houses to be judged are 2, 6, 10 and 11. Mars denoting 
power and Jupiter denoting administration should also lend support. 
Jupiter is in his own constellation and in the sub of Venus in 10. 
Mars occupies the 2nd house in the star of Moon in 6 and sub of 
Saturn, lord of 6. Thus, Mars and Jupiter are beneficially connected. 


Second house is occupied by Mars. Moon alone in Mars star. Sixth 
house is occupied by Moon. Mars and Venus are in Moon stars. Moon 
and Mars are in Sookshama parivarthana yoga. Venus is in the 10 as 
its lord. No planet in her stars. Kethu is in 11. Lord of 2 and 
11 Mercury and Sun are in Kethu star. There is no planet in Mercury 
star. Lord of 6 is Saturn. No planet in his stars. 


Since Rahu is in Saturn sign, apricorn, Rahu represents Saturn. 
Rahu is conjoined with Moon in the sign Capricorn, Rahu is to give 
what Moon effects, though they are in different houses. Though 
Kethu is in Cancer, Kethu is weaker than Rahu to represent the 
Moon, a significator of the 2nd house. In spite of the fact that Rahu is 
in Saturn sign, as Saturn is in the star of 


178 


Rahu. Saturn is stronger than Rahu. Saturn, Rahu, Mercury 
Sun, Venus and Mars are strong. 


As there was a balance of 4 years, and 22 days of Mars dasa at birth 
Saturn dasa Mercurry Bhukthi Moon anthara operates between 
6-7-77 and 27-9-77. Mars anthara will run upto 19-4-78. On date of 
judgement, 25-8-77 Moon anthara operates. We have seen that 
Saturn and Mercury are strong significators. So Saturn dasa Mercury 
bhukthis will fulfil the desire, As Moon is conjoined with Rahu, 
contemplation in Moon and fructification in Rahu. The dasanatha and 
bhukthinatha are in sextile, a powerful benefic aspect. 


Let us see whether the selection is correct. It was a thursday. Moon 
in Jupiter sign Sun star, and the Lagna in Pisces Mercury star Rahu 
in Virgo and Kethu in Jupiter is not a significator, Rahu anthara is 
good. He should be elected when Sun transits in Saturn sign Rahu 
star around 22nd Feb. 1978. However, this native assumed office in 
the third week of May 78, when it was Jupiter anthara. On review of 
the matter, it came to light that Jupiter was in the sub of Venus, 
occupant of 10th house and then was no planet in Venus stars. 
Therefore, Jupiter in the sub of such a significator gave the result in 
his anthara, and the bhukthi lord Mercury being lord of 2 and 11 in the 
star of the Node in 11 lifted him up. Jupiter repeating as a Ruling 
planet 

was not without purpose. 

This piece may be disappointing to the well wishers, enthusiastic and 
lovers of Krishnamurti Padhathi, who proudly spent a copy of this 
monthly under their broad wings, because they do not find a 
meandering (tortuous or megalomaniac innovation making them 
keep their fingers crossed; to the student because he is, shall | say, a 
pageant (parading, desiring to know all about stellar astrology in a 
short space of time; to the practitioners and the adopts, because this 
does not contain what is beyond their Ken (range of knowledge ! 
However, when it is born in memory that the taste of the pudding is 
in the eating, it will make all the difference. 


GOOD LUCK 179 


ON READING A NATAL CHART 


In reading a natal chart Bhava effects have to be blended with 
Rasi traits and planetary dispositions signifying good as well as evil 
results according to their Karak and functional dispositions. And, this 
blending of the Bhava, Rasi and planetary significations has to be 
done with due regard to the native's environmental limitations. The 
nature of the rising sign, its lord and the planets aspecting the 
Ascendant mark out the physical, mental and emotional attributes of 
the native. But Navamsa Lagna should never be ignored in personality 
delineation and also in judging the longevity of the native. 


For longevity we should consider the strength of the Lagna, the 
strength of the 8th house, the strength of the third house (which is 8th 
from the 8th), the strength of Saturn which is the Karak for longevity 
and the strength of the luminaries. The strength of the house which 
is 8th from Saturn should also be judged; and, then, an inference 
be drawn as to whether a native is destined with Purna ayu, Madhya 
Ayu or Alpa Ayu. Ordinarily, it the Lagna is strong, 8th house is 
unafflicted and Saturn is well- placed, a pretty long life of above 
64 years is assured. A strong Sun for day birth and a strong Moon for 
a night birth give added strength to the horoscope. Maha Rishi Garga 
has said: 


"Diva Surye Nishya Chandre Lagnasya ekadash Sthite, 
Koti Doshah vinashyanti Gargasya Bachnam Tatha." 


The Sloka means that the Sun in the eleventh house for a 
day-birth, and the Moon in the eleventh house for a_night-birth 
destroy a crore of Doshas (afflictions). 


Malefics on both sides of the Lagna and/or the Moon subject 
to papakartari Yoga create Balarishta, but if benevolent Jupiter is 
power, fully posited in the Ascendant or the Lagna Lord is powerful 
Balarishta is averted. Our sages have given a number 


of combinations for judging longevity. They are about two 
hundred and eighty four in number which only a prodigy can 
remember. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, | think, that if 
the Lagna is unafflicted and the lagna lord, the Star lord and the 
sub-lord of the Lagna are in residential and _ constellational 
strength supported by a pretty strong 8th house a long span of 
life, above 64 years, can be confidentially predicted. 


Some Special points 


If Lagna is Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn and the second house is 
unafflicted and occupied by Mercury of Venus in strength, the native 
will be an eloquent speaker. If Mercury occupies any of the watery 
signs (Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces) and is afflicted the native will be a 
stammerer. 


If Mars happens to occupy the Dhana Bhava (second house) and 
receives the bad aspect of Venus the native squanders money in 
luxurious living and in adultery; but, if the aspect of Venus is good the 
native develops fondness for women but does not spend 
extravagantly. Saturn in the second house receiving good aspects 
makes the person economical, but if he is badly aspected there the 
native will be an avaricious fellow. The second house along with the 
fifth shows the native's aptitude for music. If it falls in an airy sign 
(Gemini, Libra, Aquarius) the native might be a vocalist. If Mars, 
Saturn and Venus are connected with the second house the native 
might take to Tabla or Mridang. The third house is significant of one's 
intellect and inherent peculiarities or idiosyncrasies of the mind. It also 
signifies courage, valour and firmness of the native. If significators of 
the 10th and 6th houses are connected with the third house, the 
native might be employed in the Police or Military department 
provided that Mars is also a significator of houses 6 and 10. Kethu in 
the third house makes one a tale bearer or a rumour- monger. Saturn 
in the third house makes the native very cautious; Mars posited there 
will make him brave as well as foolhardy. Rahu posited there causes 
father's death during its period. 


181 


School and Collegiate education is judged by the fourth 
house, as also the end of every undertaking both in the nativity 
and in the horary astrology, Domestic environment and general 
condition of the native in the later part of his life are governed by 
this house. This house is also called the house of "grave' 
indicating private affairs, secret life and hoardings. In female 
horoscopy the fourth house signifies the sexual life and chastity of 
the woman. 


Fifth house signifies romance, children and speculative activities 
of the native. Venus badly aspected in this house indicates a 
strong love life. An afflicted fifth house with Uranus or Neptune 
posited there is a sure indication of perversion. Weak Mercury 
therein makes the person fickle-minded; and, in a woman's 
horoscope, weak Mercury in the fifth aspected by the Moon 
impels her to change her love partner frequently. 


Jupiter in the sixth is good for health. The Moon in the sixth in a 
watery sign makes the native whimsical, and if he is associated 
with Mars by aspect or conjunction the native is likely to be a 
drunkard. Mercury in the sixth shows that the native has many 
fads and fancies, while Saturn there indicates undernourishment. 
Venus in the sixth develops fondness for over-eating. If a strong 
significator of the sixth is connected with that of the tenth the 
native takes to the profession of his father. 


Both the third and seventh houses ought to be examined for 
change of residence. The Moon in the seventh badly aspected by 
Mars indicates separation with the married partner. Angular 
relationship between Mars of a male horosope and Venus of a 
female horoscope indicates strong physical attraction. Reciprocal 
relationship of the Sun and the Moon in the first and the seventh 
houses between the horoscopes of husband and wife shows that 
they will be ever attached to each other till the end. 


Accidents should be predicted by examining the 8th house along 
with the first and the sixth. Mars and Uranus afflicting the 


)0* 


Ascendant and the 8th, unrelieved by beneficial aspects, denote 
accidents, Uranus connected with the 8th causes sudden death 
due to fire or explosion or incurable diseases. If 8th falls in a watery 
sign and is also afflicted by Neptune, death may be caused by 
drowning. Jupiter and Saturn in the 8th house arouse the native's 
interest in occult sciences or mystical subjects. 


9th house shows one's fortune in the present life as a result of the 
Karmas done in the previous life. Jupiter in this house makes the 
native orthodox, religious and kind hearted, even Saturn posited here 
makes the native religious, noble and meditative, This is the house of 
intuition and pure reason. Jupiter or Saturn placed in this 
house receiving good aspect from the Sun or Mercury give the native 
intution and clairvoyance. 


Worldly attainments (name, fame and honour) are judged by the tenth 
house which is said to be the apex of the horoscope. Mars in the tenth 
house denotes rise in life by self efforts. Saturn well posited 
therein indicates that the native will prosper in the latter half of his life. 
Jupiter there indicates educational or legal pursuits and also 
officialdom. Uranus in the tenth house indicates rise in life as a 
result of some discovery, invention or revolution. Neptune in this 
house receiving good aspects indicates that the native will be 
connected with jobs where secrecy is maintained; if, on the 
other hand, it is badly aspected it is sure to bring about disgrace or 
scandal. 


Mercury in the tenth house denotes plurality of occupations. 
Dignified Sun in the tenth gives honour, distinction; prosperity and 
what not. 


Eleventh house is the house of friends. Social and_ financial 
success largely depends on the strength of this house. The sun in 
this house shows that the native will associate with men in 
power and high positions. The Moon here receiving harmonious 
aspects makes the native very popular among women folk. Mars in 
11, if well placed, will make the native popular and friendly 183 


with men in the Police and military departments; if afflicted, the 
native will be rash and will get into trouble with his friends. Mercury in 
11 causes friendship with literary and scientific minded people. 
Jupiter in this house gives wealthy and virtuous friends. Venus in 11 
favours friendship with the opposite sex. Well-placed Saturn in 11 
gives aged and serious friends, but very few friends if Uranus in11 
brings about sudden and remarkable friendships. But if he is afflicted 
friends will suddenly become foes. Neptune in 11 gives the native a 
magnetic personality and endows him with spiritual aspirations; if 
afflicted, the friends prove to be deceptive and treacherous. 


The 12th house rules over the liberation of the soul. Diving worship 
and future state of existence are determined from this house. Along 
with houses 6 and 8, it is termed as a Dus-sthana, viz, an evil 
house. But evil planets posited in this house are far less evil than 
when they are in the angles. Mars in 12 afflicted by Saturn may lead 
to imprisonment or confinement in a hospital for a long time. 


GOOD LUCK °* 


184 


‘OH! WHAT A HATRED ON KP.' 


it is interesting to read in a magazine from Chennai that the 
contributors claim ability to accurately predict the time of, say, the 
birth (and sex) of a baby etc., the arrival of gas cylinder and 
restoration of electric supply! Recently a contributor wrote an 
article about his predictions regarding the recovery of salary 
arrears of an engineer of U.P. 


| wonder why this person who "accurately predicted" the time of 
recovery of salary and replied to the U.P.Engineer within a week, 
had to wait for nine months with all unpleasantness, annoyance, 
and embarrassment subjected to, by his "fantastic" friend 
asking him, "in a mind mocking tone and tenor" about the 
correctness of his forecast. Surely this astrologer could have 
asked for a horary number from his "fantastic" friend and 
predicted the date of arrival of the reply from UP and thus 
made even Parasara and Varahamihira bow to his ‘revered’ 
Guruji from Heaven. 


| feel that there is a calculated move by certain section of 
astrological enthusiasts in India to denigrate Hindu Astrology 
and mislead the gullible and ignorant public, instead of learning 
and propagating what our ancient savants discovered and taught 
us. 


Of course democratic India has given the right to any citizen 
to "Propound" any 'Padhdhati' and watch the fun. 


Though the above writer had not come out openly, | 
can understand that this letter pertains to the article submitted. 


Let them say that they do not possess the capacity to understand 
KP; and it is not their concern to say that Democracy has 
given right to propound any padhdhati. It is the finding of a master 
mind and he has opened the eyes of Astrologers and 


185 


given to Astrology a status in the predictive portion; for which this 
is the way how Sri KSK and KP enthusiasts are being treated. 


There is a calculated move by a certain section of Astrological 
enthusiasts to denigrate Hindu Astrology. One may kindly note 
that KP is an improvement on the predictive wing of Hindu 
Astrology. KP followers never said in any place whatsoever that 
KP is a new thing sprang up suddenly; except that the padhdhati 
is an invention by introducing the "sub" which is a division of the 
Zodiac of 360°, in terms of the unequal proportion of the 
Vimshottari Dasa years allotted to each planet in that Vimshottari 
system of 120 years; and we like to impress upon him that KP had 
been based on the old fundamental concepts of Hindu Astrology 
only. We use the same 9 (nine) planets with the same 
significations and Karaka that was, as told in Hindu astrology. Let 
our friend now understand KP is born out of Hindu Astrology; and 
further advanced we and Hindu Astrology is not their property 
alien and not alone to KP followers as well. 


The KP followers claim the ability to accurately predict the time of 
the birth of baby etc. Because, if one is not endowed with such a 
faculty in predicting, he need not entertain such a feeling. Truly a 
good KP follower can do it with ease and give startling predictions. 


One of a student in this system by name Sri Sukumar, used to 
write letter and in the end he will indicate the time and date that 
letter would be delivered to the person it is addressed. Exactly 
that very time and minute, the letter will be delivered to; and to 
substantiate the ability of the KP followers to the accuracy of 
prediction, there are many such instances, to quote. 


In the end of the II paragraph one of our student's letter, he writes 
"and thus made even Parasara and Varahamihira bow to his 
‘revered’ Guruji from heaven." This betrays his hatred for KP and 
the inventor of KP; and he is blind with it. All know that our 
revered Guruji is now in Heaven and | am sure that Parasara 


and Varahamihira might, by now, met and congratulated our 
Guruji for producing such a student who has written the letter. 


While ending this letter, | like to advise that writer of the letter 
above to learn KP and be really useful to the consulting to learn 
KP and be really useful to the consulting public, should he be a 
student of Astrology. Otherwise English provides him restrained 
use of phraseology. 


GOOD LUCK 


187 


PROPOSED BUSINESS VENTURE IS 
NOT SUITABLE FOR KCH 


A gentleman known to me has given me the number 135 to find 
out whether the proposed business Venture is profitable, according to 
infallible Krishnamurthi Padhdhati. After the udgment with the 
number, | replied him, not to start with that, as it will not be 
successful. 
| wish to give below the procedure, which | have adopted according 
to K.P. for this decision. 

His number was taken for consideration at 11.45a.m. C.S.T. on 17th 
December 1978 at Galle, Sri Lanka. Bhava chart used for this 
purpose is given below. 


VII 15-13 VIII 15-00 IX 13-00 
?Rhu 28-33 Moon 1-22 
Jup. (R) 
Vv 13 
x ),&5( 
No. 135 at 11-45 a.m. X 12-00 
on 17-12-1978 
F_YQNa 
IV 13-48 am : 
808 * "9 c&(2"BH J=A3-00 
GNWV5RI@NYVN Sat. 20-26 
Rah 28-33 
III 13-00 IL 15&(( Ven 20&) 
Mars 9-51 ARrP \a XII 15-00 
Sun 1-26 y*8/ I 15&)+&*( 


188 Dasa Balance for Jupiter 02 yrs. 04 Mn. 10days. 


Planetary Positions: 


Planet Bhava Bhava Star Sub 
owned occupied 
Sun 11 2 Kethu Venus 
Moon 10 9 Jup Rahu 
Mars 2&7 2 Jup Rahu 
Mercury 9&12 1 Saturn Mars 
Jupiter 3&6 10 Saturn Rahu 
Venus 1&8 1 Jupiter Jupiter 
Saturn 4&5 11 Venus Jupiter 
Rahu 3 11 Sun Mars 
Kethu - 5 Jupiter Venus 


Seventh cusp falls in the sign of Aries, star of Venus and Sub of 
Venus. Eleventh cusp is Leo 13. 01. It is in the sign of Sun, star of 
Kethu and sub of Mercury. 


Position of Moon: 

Moon or Mathi- indicato rof mind which reveals the urge of the 
querrent. She owns 10 and deposited in 9th. In the star of Jupiter, lord 
of 3 and 6 in 10 and in the sub of Rahu in 11th. So Moon indicates the 
expectation and business, etc. 


Sub Lord of 11th: 

It is Mercury. He is a significator for 1, 4, 5,11, 9 and 12. So the sub 
lord contributes only for loss not profit as expected in a business 
venture. 

For business, 2nd, 7th and 10th bhavas are considered. Second 
bhava shows self acquisition, Seventh, partners and customers and 
the 10th for good name, fame etc. If a Business is to be successful, it 
should have a good name and reputation to have more and more 
customers for prosperity, but of these three, the most important one is 
the seventh, which denotes partners and customers. If there are no 
customers there will not be a business. So the seventh bhava is the 
most important place. 


189 


Seventh bhava falls in Aries. There are no planets deposited 
in it. Its lord is Mars. Mars is posited in the star of Kethu and in the 
sub of Saturn. According to K.P, Saturn sub occupied by the lord 
of 7th or significator of 7th is disadvantages. So it is not good for 
this querrent to start this proposed business. Opposition and loss 
in indicated. 


Sub lord of 7th is Venus. Therefore he will have social success, 
due to his pleasing manners there will be companions and 
well wishers. He will be successful by being a member of a club 
or a society. But the sign lord will not help in any respect. He 
will not allow the querrent to start, causing loss and obstacles. But 
he will not lose the courage. Due to Mars he will start the 
business in a flash, but ends in a clash, according to K.P. So he 
could start it if he is so interested, but there will never be any 
SUCCESS. 


Dasa lord give the results of the lord of the constellation, where he 
is deposited. Dasa lord Jupiter is in the constellation of Saturn, 
lord of 4 & 5 in 11, Bukthi lord Rahu is in the star of Sun, lord of 11 
in 2. So there will be gains to the querrent during this period, but 
the expected project will not give as the cusp rule is not FOR, but 
No. If he starts with a flash, there will be a clash. 


GOOD LUCK’ 


190 


KRISHNAMURTHI PADHDHATI AND 
BUSINESS 


A certain gentlemen had been running hotel business for the 
past few years. Owing to some difficulty in managing the business he 
had let it out on lease to another party some-time ago. Now the 
gentleman wanted to take back the business from the lease and 
run it on his own. He wanted to know the advisability of such a step 
on the basis of a horary chart. The horary number between 1 and 
249 given by him for the purpose is 150. 


The matter was taken up for examination at Chennai(Lat. 13°04'N; 
long. 80°17" E) on Thursday, 29-3-1979 at 11-48 a.m. I.S.T. The 
ayanamsa for 15-4-1978 is 23°33'30', 8206 and that for 15-4-1979 
is 23034'21,. 0946 as per the Tables of Houses. The rate of 
precession for the year commencing on 15-4-1978 is 50'.2740. By 
interpolation the ayanamsa for 29-3-1979 would be 23°34'19"1 The 
Nirayana cusp of the lagna for the horary No150 is 5°26' 40" in 
Scorpio or 215°26'40" adding 23°34'19", the ayanamsa for 
29-3-1979, the date of udgment, the Sayana cusp of the lagna 
would be 239°00'59". This point would be on the horizon at Chennai 
(13° 04'N) the place of udgment at idereal time 10 Hrs 6 mts 30 
sees, as shown below: 


Sayana cusp for Lat: 13°N 


at S.T. INNH 4M 0S 238° 28' 00" 
Less correction for 4 

‘at 21' per degree 0°01'24" 
Sayana cusp for Lat. 13'04/N 

at ST. 10H 4M 0S 238° 26' 36" 
Movement of cusp for 2 mts. 

of ST. at 55’ per 4 mts. 0° 27' 30"° 
Movement of cusp for 28" 0° 06’ 25" 
Movement of cusp for 2" 0° 06’ 27.5" 


Sayana cusp for Lat. 13°- 04'N 
at ST. 10H 6M 30S 239° 00' 59" 191 


The other cusps have, therefore, to be worked out for Lat: 13°04'N 
for Sidereal time 10 Hrs 6 Mts 30 Sec. and reduced to the 
Nirayana values by deducting the Ayanamsa of 23°34'19". The 
ayanamsa used in the Mahabala's Advance Ephemeries (1971 to 
1980) for the year commencing on 1.1.1979 is 23°28' (Vide table 
VIII of the Ephemeris). The accurate ayanamsa for 29-3-1979 is 
23°34'19" as per the T.O.H. The planetary longitudes derived from 
the Mahabala Ephemeris for 11-48 a.m. I.S.T. on 29-3-1979 
would, therefore, have to be reduced by 6,19"for accuracy. The 
Nirayana chart erected thus for the date, place and time of 
judgement would be as below; 


Moon 29°42' 

Sun 14° 24° VI 8°-19' Vil vill 
V 8°-09° 5-26'-40" 493! 
Merc (R) 

5° 47" 


Mar 29°34' 
Ket. 23-02' IX 4-7' 


Ven. 6°35" Horary No.150 Jup. 5°-27' 
ore Madras 13° 04'N 
IV 5°56 80° 17° E 
29-3-1979 
11-48 am. I.S.T. X 5°-26" 
Saturn(R) 
14-55' 
Rah 23°02' 


Lag. 
11 4°-237 5-26'-40" XII 8°-19 XI 8-09" 


Balance of Mercury Dasa 0 years 4 months 18 days at the 
time of judgement 


The star and sub positions of cusps and planets 


would be as below: ' 
192 


Cusp StarLord Sub Lord 
Lag: Saturn Mercury 
Ht] Kethu Moon 

ll Sun Saturn 
IV Mars Moon 

V Saturn Venus 
Vi Kethu Jupiter 
vil Sun Mercury 
Vill Mars Venus 
IX Saturn Saturn 
xX Kethu Rahu 

Xl Sun Venus 
XIl Rahu Rahu 
Planets StarLord SubLord 
Sun Saturn Rahu 
Moon Mercury Saturn 
Mars Jupiter Moon 
Mercury Saturn Mercury 
Jupiter Saturn Mercury 
Venus Mars Moon 
Saturn Venus Venus 
Rahu Venus Saturn 
Kethu Jupiter Saturn 


Now let us examine the chart. In a horary chart the Moon (who 
is said to reflect the mind of the querist) and also the sublord of the 
cusp of the lagna (which represents the querist) should be related 
to the houses governing the problem under examination. Moon in 
the chart is in association with Sun the lord of 10 (the house 
representing the means of livelihood) who is a strong significators 
of 10 by occupation of the constellation of Saturn in 10. Moon 
owns the sub on the cusp of 2 (the house of self-acquisition). 
Moon is in the constellation of Mercury who 


193 


is in association with Sun the 10th lord and is a strong significator 
of 10 by occupation of the constellation of Saturn in 10. Moon is in 
association with Mercury and is in the sub of Saturn in 10. Both 
Moon and Mercury the sublord of the cusp of the lagna are thus 
connected with 10, the house denoting the means of livelihood, 
thus reflecting the purpose of the query correctly. 


Now let us examine the 10th cusp. For one to earn by self- 
exertion the sublord of the cusp of 10 should be a significator of 2 
(the house of self-acquisition) or of 10 (the house of Karma or 
profession). If the sub lord is connected with 6 (the house of 
service) as well, one earns by service. If the sublord is connected 
with 7 one earns by business. If the sublord is connected with a 
dual sign and with both 6 and 7 one will earn by service as well as 
by business and so on. The 10th cusp of the chart is in the sub of 
Rahu who is in 10. Rahu is in the constellation of Venus the lord of 
7 (the house of business) and the sub of Saturn in 10. Conversely, 
Mercury the sublord of the cusp of 7 is in the (constellation of 
Saturn in 10, and its own sub. The cusp of 2 (the house of self- 
acquisition) with Sun the lord of 10 who also owns the 
constellation on the cups of 7 (the house of business.) Moon is in 
the constellation of Mercury who own the sub on the cusp of 7 and 
is in association with Mercury. The indiciation is acquisition of 
wealth by business. 


Let us now see whether the chart indicates the nature of business 
correctly. Cancer the 4th sign of the natural Zodiac and 
correspondingly the 4th Bhava of a chart are said to indicate 
water (Ambu) milk, shops, stalls, catering and so on. Among the 
planets Moon indicates cooked food (Bhojana), plantains and 
fruits (phalani mridulam), vegetables (Sasyam), Sugar, Milk, Curd, 
Water etc (Madhmaksheeradi Vastrambugo) Venus denotes 
confectionary, juicy and tasty fruits etc. Venus is said to represent 
the watery element, taste, tongue etc (Payogana) and also tasty 
food. Mars represents fire (Agni), kitchen (Mahanasa), cooking 
etc. Hotel business is thus connected with 


194 


Mars, Venus and Moon, pages 166 and 167 of K.P. Reader Ill, 
Predictive Astrology may kindly be seen in this connection. For one 
to * hotel business, therefore, the sublord of the 10th cusp apart 
from being connected with the 7th house should also be connected 
with the 4th house and with the planets Mars and either house and 
with the planets Mars and either Moon or Venus in some manner. In 
the chart Rahu the sublord of the 10th cusp is in the constellation of 
Venus the lord of 7 in 4 and the sub of Saturn the lord of 4 conjunct 
itself (Rahu). Venus is in association with Mars, the constellation 
lord of the 4th cusp and is in the constellation of Mars and the sub 
of Moon who owns the sub on the cusp of 4. 


Let us now examine the problem from the points of view of the 
cusps of 7 ( house of business) and 2 ( house of self-acquisition). 
The 7th cusp is in the sub of Mercury in 4 in association with the 
Moon. Mercury is in the constellation of Saturn the lord of 4 in 10 
and its own sub. Mercury's constellation lord Saturn is receiving 
aspect from Mars. 


The cusp of 2 (the house of self-acquisition) is in the sub of Moon 
who, as we have seen, is connected with 7 (the house of business). 
Moon is in the constellation of Mercury in 4 (catering, etc.) and the 
sub of Saturn the lord of 4 in 10 under the aspect of Mars. 


How correctly, clearly and mysteriously the horary method of 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati indicates facts! The self-styled protagonists 
of the ancient Rishis, who decry Krishnamurti padhdhati and vomit 
unthinking sarcasm on it, little known that they are slamming the 
doors on knowledge by doing so. The ancient Rishis whom these 
wonderful critics are out to uphold never asserted that the have 
exhausted all that the almighty meant to be revealed. On the other 
hand those illustrious Truth seekers exemplify a free and open mind 
which would receive Truths from all quarters and reject things which 
do not correspond to Reality no matter from whose lips such things 


fell. The luminous Truth the great Rishis of yore possessed and 
passed on to posterity do not need crutches and props from blind 
and biased people. These critics are in reality upholding and 
fostering only their own false’ prestige, prejudice and 
preposterousness in their attempts. Things which are really true 
will endure silently in the face of the most vociferous sarcasm and 
criticism. It would be in the interest of knowledge, if persons 
seeking it shed all ill-feeling among themselves. 


Reverting to the problem under discussion, let us see the rules of 
K.P. regarding business. (Vide pages 193 to 195 of K.P. Reader 
Ill, Predictive Astrology. Business is denoted by the 7th house. If 
the sublord of the 7th cusp is Saturn unaided by the influence of 
Mars, lack of courage, opposition and loss in business are 
threatened. Mars as the sublord of the 7th cusp gives courage and 
confidence. Mercury as the sublord shows tact, skill ability and 
publicity. Venus indicates sweet and pleasing relationship and so 
on. The 5th house which is the 11th of the customer and the evil 
houses 8 and 12 are detrimental to business. For successful 
independent business the sublord of the 7th cusp _ should, 
therefore, not be deposited in the constellation of a significator of 
5, 8 or 12. Earthy signs denote material welfare through business. 
If the sublord of the 7th cusp is in the constellation of a planet in 5, 
8 or 12 in an earthy sign winding up of business due to loss is a 
certainty. Houses 6, 11, 2 and 10 are favorable for financial 
prosperity and so on. 


The 7th cusp in the chart is in the sub of Mercury who is in the 
constellation of Saturn in 10. Saturn is in the constellation of Venus 
who signifies 6 by association with Mars the lord of 6 and by 
occupation of his constellation. Saturn the planet of diffidence is 
also receiving aspect from Mars the planet of courage and 
confidence. Mars is aspecting 7 (the house of business). The cusp 
of 3 (the house of courage) is in the sub of Saturn who is well 
under the influence of Mars. The querist will, therefore, 
have enough courage and confidence to take business risks 
and his business will also flourish. 


The cusp of 2 (dhanabhava) is in the sub of Moon who is in the 
constellation of Mercury, the lord of 11 aspecting 11. Mercury is a 
strong significator of 10 by occupation of the constellation of Saturn 
in 10. The Dhanabhava is well fortified, The 10th house shows 
acquisition by profession or business and the houses that precede it 
show income through various other sources, (the 4th house denotes 
ancestral property, the 8th, legacy or income from the side of the 
life's partner and so on). The 12th house represents expenditure. 
The 11th house which is in between 10 and 12 shows whether ones 
total income would exceed expenditure or vice versa: that is to say 
whether one will have anything to lay by or not. the 11th cusp in the 
chart is in the sub of Venus who is in the constellation of Mars the 
lord of 6 aspecting 10 and 11. Mars is in the constellation of Jupiter 
the exalted lord of 2 (Dhanabhava) who also owns the sub on the 
cusp of 6. Sufficient affluence is promised to the querist. He has 
since taken back the business from the lessee (leaser). He will be 
running Mercury Dasa upto 17-8-1979. Mercury in the constellation 
of Saturn in 10 and its own sub is auspicious. Kethu Dasa follows 
from 17-8-1979. Kethu owns the constellations on the cusps of 2, 6 
and 10 without any planets in its constellations. Kethu is in 4 in 
association with Mars the lord of 6 and Venus the lord of 7. Kethu is 
in the constellation of Jupiter the planet of righteousness 
and the lord of 2 (Dhanabhava) in 9 (Bhagyasthana) and the sub of 
Saturn in 10, Jupiter represents expansion. Jupiter is in his 
exaltation sign Cancer, the sign representing catering etc. Jupiter in 
9 is in the constellation of Saturn in 10 thus linking 9 and 10 ina 
Sookshma dharmakarmadhipa yoga. Saturn also connected with 4 
(hotel business) by ownership and by occupation of the constellation 
of Venus the lord of 7 in 4. Exalted Jupiter is also aspecting Mercury 
the sublord of the cusp of 7 (the house of business) by the 9th Hindu 
aspect. Jupiter and Mercury who are both in the constellation of 
Saturn in 10 and the sub of Mercury the 11th lord aspecting 11 are 
in excellent trine aspect (119° 40'). The querist by God's Grace, 
expand his business during Kethu and enjoy the fruits of honest 
endeavor. 


197 


NEGOTIATION FOR ACCOMMODATION 


The principal of a Tutorial College in Jullundur, who had been in 
search of a spacious building for the last 18 months, to house his 
college, in order that he may expand his activities, eagerly asked 
when he would get accommodation near the local college, adding that 
he was negotiating with a party at that moment. He also desired to 
know whether the negotiations would be successful. This was 
considered at Chennai on Thursday, the 17th August, 1978, at 11-30 
am. The horary chart for the number given, 64 is appended below. 


198 


X 29-57-37 
Kethu 5-2 


XI 26-46-53 


XII 1-32-4 


I 0-33-20 
Jup 2-42 
Il 27-11-14 


VII 27-11-14 Sun 0-32 
Me(R)3-31 

Moon 13-56 Sa 9-13 

VII 0-33-20 III 26-46-53 


Rahu 5-2 
Mars 14-1 


VI 1-32-4 Vv 19-42 Ven 16-9 
IV 29-57-37 
Planets StarLord SubLord 
Sun Kethu Kethu 
Moon Moon Jupiter 
Mars Moon Jupiter 
Mercury Kethu Sun 
Jupiter Jupiter Rahu 
Venus Moon Saturn 


Saturn Kethu Jupiter 


Rahu Sun Saturn 
Kethu Saturn Saturn 
3rd Cusp Sun Sun 


Moon dasa balance yrs. 7-0-18. 


Agreement, interview, negotiation, etc. are all denoted by 
the 3rd house from the 7th, that is the 9th house. egotiation to be 
made is to be ascertained from the significators of the 3rd house. If 
the negotiations to be successful or useful, 11th house is to be 
scrutinized. But if the negotiation etc. is to be a failure, the 
significator of the 12th house. Eleventh house is for success 
whereas 12th house is for failure. Therefore, houses 3, 9, and 12 
indicates failure. 


In a horary chart, whether or not negotiation is promised is to be 
judged from the sub-lord of the 3rd cusp. Ninth house 
shows whether other party will conclude or give his acceptance. 


If the negotiation is for marriage, the 7th house has to be judged 
apart from 3 and 9. If it is for business, houses 10 and 6 has to be 
judged in addition to 3 and 9. Getting living accommodation 4th 
house also needs consideration apart from 3 and 9. 


In this horary figure, the sub lord of the 3rd cusp is Sun, lord of 3. 
Sun will never be retrograde. Sun is in the constellation of Kethu. 
The Node always traces its course anti-clockwise. Kethu is in the 
9th house indicating negotiation being a success. As negotiation is 
indicated to be successful, the significators of 3, 9, 11 will mark the 
time. 


Rahu, Mars and Venus are in the 3rd house. No planets in any of 
their stars. Lord of 3 is Sun. Rahu is in Sun star. Kethu occupies 
9th house. Lord of 4, Mercury for accommodation, Saturn, lord of 
9, for consent of the other person, Sun, lord of 3 for negotiation, 
are all in the star of Kethu in 9, Lord of 9 is 


199 


Saturn and Kethu in his star. No planet is in 11, lord of which is 
Venus posited in 3rd house. No planet is in Venus stars. 


Today is Thursday. Moon is in Sravanam, and the Lagna is in 
Visakha in Libra. Kethu represents Jupiter and Venus is conjoined 
with Rahu. Kethu, Rahu Venus and Jupiter rules the moment. 


As Mercury, lord of 4 is retrograde and resumes direct motion on 
September 29, anything favourable can happen after the 29th. 
Sun is at present transiting in Makha in Leo. He must get it when 
Sun transits in Kethu Sub in Venus star. As Jupiter is represented 
by Kethu, Kethu sub in Venus star is preferred. Sun will be in such 
a position on 12th September. As 3rd house also denotes removal 
of goods, he will occupy the new premises on 12th. 


However, the consultant conveyed to me in his letter of 
September 12, that he inaugurated his classes at 11-06 a.m. on 
7th September. On that date Sun was in Venus star Jupiter Sub 
and Moon was in Venus sign Rahu Star. 


This brings back to my memory an anecdote. After completion of 
the course in Astrology, a student was given a practical test. The 
Guru, holding a gold ring in his closed palm, asked the student, 
working out a horary map mentally and finding Sun signified in the 
2nd house visualized that it was a valuable article of gold, circular 
in shape, with a hole in the centre, but the utter dismay vocalised 
that it was a grinding stone. 


Though K.P. lays down the principles and gives the influences of 


planets, " udgment", as Ptolemy has said, "should be regulated 
by thyself, as well as by the science." 


GOOD LUCK 


GURUJI'S GUIDANCE 


On Wednesday 7-2-79 at about 7 p.m. | tuned my Radio to listen 
the Chennai news, | heard an announcement by the Police Department 
stating a boy of nine years old is missing from 20-1-79 and the finder 
may inform Mr. Krishnan residing at No. 12 Kalingaroya Mudali Street, 
Old Washermenpet, Chennai - 21. 

Hearing this | immediately noted down the address with an intention to 
guide the poor man who is at a loss, with the aid of Astrology. Then | 
took this case for judgement on the next afternoon. 

The Ruling planet at that moment were Jupiter, Mercury, Rahu, Moon, 
Jupiter. Then contemplating upon the boy's where about and his return, 
| opened a book of 250 pages at random and found the page No. 65. 
And in few minutes the Horary Chart for No. 65 has been erected. 


XII 1-00 


xX 23°-21' Xl 27-40' 


Moon 
14-00' 


Kethu 1 1°-28' 
25-45! 8-2-79 Thursday Jupiter (R) 
Lucknow 12-45 p.m. 3°42" 

; 26°-55'N 80°-59'E. 6-04 
IX 21-52 Il 24°-57' 
No.65 


Sun 25°27' AvenaMeaies 28 Saturn (R) 


VII 24-57' Balance Rahu 8-42" 
Mer. 24-43! Dasa Mercury Bhukthi Ill 21-52" 


Mars 21°04' 7 years 10M-23 Days. Bah 
VIL 1°-28' 25-21' 


IV 23°-21' 


Star: Kethu Venus Sun Moon Mars 


Rahu Jupiter Saturn Mercury 
201 


Planet: Venus Rahu - Mars Sun 


Moon Kelhu Jupiter - 
Satur Mercury 
Balance 8.2.1979 
Rahu- Budha-Sutya 
Dasa-Buklhi-Anthra 13.0. 0 
21.2.1979 


Dasa-Bhukthi-Chandra anthara 17.2. 0 
8.5.1979 


| started my calculation from 5th house from the Lagna, 
simultaneously to refresh my memory I referred the pages 309- 
310. of Horary Astrology in which | found that our Guruji Revered 
K.S. Krishnamurthi has laid down the rule that the houses II, IV 
and XI are to be looked into and during the operation of the 
conjoined period of the strongest significators will bring back 
the missing person. 


Implying likewise houses II, IV, XI from the 5th house are 
VI, Vill and Ill and the significators are Rahu, Saturn, Venus, 
Moon, Sun. Among these planets Rahu and Moon are strongest 
of all because they are not only agreeing with the Ruling Planets 
but also by being the Lords of Dasa and Anthara Venus also 
has to be included, for it is in the Sub of Saturn which is conjoined 
with Rahu, further Rahu is in Venus - Star. 


Sub House Occupant Occupant 
in the in the 
constella constella Sign 
tion of Occupant _ tionof Lord 
Occupant Sign Lord 
Rahu | Kethu Jupiter Mars Moon 


Jupiter Il Jupiter Satum Mars Moon 


202 


SubHouse Occupant Occupant 


inthe in the 
constella constella Sign 
tion of Occupant tion of' Lord 
Occupant Sign Lord 
Jupiter III Moon Rahu : Sun 
Mars IV - - . Mercury 
Venus V : 7 Rahu 
Saturn Venus 
Venus VI Rahu Venus Kethu Jupiter 
= Saturn 
Jupiter VII = Sun Mars 
Mercury Mercury Jupiter Saturn 
Rahu_ VIII - Sun Jupiter Saturn 
Saturn IX — Venus Kethu Jupiter Saturn 
Mars X - - Kethu Jupiter 
Moon Xl 7 7 Sun 


Mercury Mars 


MercuryXll Mars Moon - Mercury 


Significators (From V House) 


Venus VI Rahu 


Saturn Venus Kethu Jupiter 
Rahu VIII - Sun Jupiter Saturn 
Jupiter Ill Moon Rahu - Sun 


Only Mercury the Lord of Bukthi is neither found in K.P. nor in the 
significators. But Rahu happens to be a very good agent of the Bukthi 
Lord Mercury by being in the Mercury sub. 


203 


These indications represents that on a day when Rahu, 
Moon, Venus conjointly operates the missing boy will come back. 


Such formation occurs on Monday 26-2-79. When Lagna falls in 
Mithuna Rasi, Arudra Star that is at 12-30 p.m. (roughly) The 
Panchang shows that Solar Eclipse fall on that New Moon day. | 
was hesitating to predict this due to a fear that Eclipse may cause 
any adverse effect in contrary to my prediction. 


At this juncture | simply asked my beloved Guruji Revered K.S. 
Krishnamurthi through meditation to offer his guidance in this 
respect. In no time an idea flashed in my mind on decoding, it 
reads them "An intimation about the missing boy will be 
received at 12-30 p.m. on 26-2-79." 


Subsequently with the regained moral courage | have written an 
encouraging letter to Mr. Krishnan stating his son will come back, 
nevertheless an intimation regarding the whereabouts of his son 
will be received definitely at 12-30p.m. on Monday 26-2-79. 


In his reply while thanking me he expresses that he has received 
a glad news exactly at 12-30 p.m. on Monday 26-2-79 as 


predicted, his son has reached his uncle's house at 
Madurantakam. 


Is it not a miraculous guidance of Guruji? 


GOOD LUCK 


204 


ASPECTS : THEIR COMPUTATION AND 
MODUS OPERANDI 


When judging a horoscope, various factors such as the signs, 
houses, constellations, subs, etc. enter into consideration. Equally 
important are the aspects. Which are the modifying influences? An 
analysis of a nativity or a horary chart without regard to the 
aspects will lead nowhere near correct judgement. 


Anciently, aspects were termed "Familiarities" or "Configurations" 
An aspect is a certain angular relationship between the rays which 
reach the earth from two heavenly bodies or between one ray and 
a given point. In astrology, the term "Aspect" familiarly refers to the 
angular distance measured in degrees and minutes of celestial 
longitude between two planets or between a planet and the cusp of 
a house in the horoscope. It has been established that certain 
angular measures do exert some influence on people living on the 
planet earth. 


Aspects are grouped into good or benefic aspects and bad or 
malefic aspects. The good aspects symbolise progress, harmony 
and concord, whereas the bad aspects are adverse in nature 
denoting disharmony and discord. There are a large number of 
aspects, of which the conjunction (same longitude) parallel of 
Declination (same longitude) parallel of Declination (same distance 
from celestial Equator) opposition (opposite longitude), Trine 
(120°), square (90°), Quincunx (160° distance), and the Sextile 
(60° distance) are classed as major aspects. 


The other angular distances such as 18° and 221/20 and their 
multiples, expect 90° and 180°, are classed as minor aspects. 
Many students of astrology, and perhaps a few of the practitioners 
of the art, may be in doubt as to whether Saturn aspects Venus or 
vice versa or whether Saturn is the aspecting body or Venus is the 
aspecting body. Of the two planets which are in aspect, that planet 
which has greater daily motion is the 


205 


aspecting body and the planet which has a lesser daily motion is the 
aspected body. In other words, the faster-moving planet is the 
aspected planet, in the sense that the faster of the two applies to an 
aspect with the slower. Therefore, Moon being the fastest of all 
planets, can apply in aspect to all others. As Mercury is the planet 
next in speed, it can apply in aspect to all others, except the Moon. 
Venus can aspect all others except Moon and Mercury. Mars can 
aspect all others except Moon. Sun, Mercury and Venus. To be more 
precise whether Mercury aspects Venus or vice versa, it should be 
decided by noting their daily motion on the given date. For example, 
date of birth. Sun will aspect planets other than Moon, Mercury and 
Venus. Jupiter can apply in aspect to Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and 
Pluto. Saturn can apply in aspect to Uranus, Neptune and Pluto only. 
Pluto being the slowest, can apply to none. 


As the speed in orbit is relative to the size or the orbit, the inner planet 
aspects the one farther away from the Sun. Thus, Venus 
aspects Saturn and not vice versa. owever, there are some 
exceptions. Transiting Saturn cannot pass over Venus, but Saturn 
can pass over the degree which Venus occupied on some former 
occasion, say, at the time of birth, at which its influence was 
augmented to create a sensitive degree. When Saturn transits that 
degree, a Saturn impulse through a Venus expectancy is received. 


The space within which an aspect is judged to be effective is called 
the "ORB" or orbit of influence beyond the exact point of an aspect, 
when two planets are within orb of an aspect, the aspect is said to be 
the forming* or ‘applying’ till it culminates or becomes exact. After the 
aspect has become exact, the receding motion is termed 
separating*. The faster planet may be said to be applying to or 
separating from an aspect with the other. When sufficiently within the 
orb of influence to be operative, it is a wide or platic aspect, which 
culminates in an exact or partile aspect. An aspect computed in the 
natural order of the signs 


206 


(Mesha to Simha and so on) is a sinister aspect; when the aspect 
is computed in the reverse direction such as when the aspecting 
planet is in Simha and the aspected planet is placed in Mesha, it 
is a dexter aspect. The sinister aspect of Venus and other benefits 
and dexter aspect of Mars and other malefics are powerful. 


An aspect when within orb is weak. But it gradually gains power 
as the planet draws nearer and nearer to the other. The aspect 
reaches its acme when exact; it becomes weaker and weaker as 
the planet separates after the exact aspect. When it is out of orb 
the aspect ceases to be operative. 


As regards conjuctions the Sun exerts influence upto 12 degrees 
when applying and 17 degrees when separating. The Moon's 
influence is 8 degrees when applying and 12 degree when 
separating. The other planets have an orb of 6 degrees when 
applying by Conjunction and 8 degrees when separating from IL 
In practice, however, two planets may not be in perfect 
conjunction, yet then are considered to be in Conjunction if the 
relative distance between them is less than half the sum of their 
orbs. 


The orb for conjunction with the cusp is 8 degrees and for other 
aspects to the cusp, the orbs recommended for the respective 
aspects may be followed. 


Nomencla- Angular Orb In Orb ac- order 
ture of measure Quality degrees cording of str- 
aspect Western to KP ength 

App. Sep. 

Conjunction Same 

degree & 
min. Variable 8 8 8 1 

Parallel by Same amount 

Deel. of DeCl. 

NorS Variable Porlil 


207 


Opposition 180 Adverse 8 8 8 2 
Trme 120 Very good 8 6 6 3 
Square 90 Very bad 8 6 6 4 
Sextile 60 Very good 8 6 6 5 
Semi-square 45 Slightly 

bad (S.b) 4 22 9 
Semi-sextile 30 Slightly 

good (S.g) 4 2 2 10 
Quincunx 150 S. adverse 2 23 6 
Quintile 72 S.good 4 33 11 
Sesquiquad- 
rate 135 S. adverse 2 33 7 
Biquintile 144 S.good 2 33 12 
Tradedle 108 S. good 222 - 
Decile 36 S. good 222 - 
Quindecile 24 S. good 2 ~~ Exact - 
Vigintile 18 S. good 222 - 


Table of dignities explained 


Except the So. (Sun) and the Luna(Moon), which have only 
one sign each, the other planets own two signs each. One of them 
is the planet's day sign each. Oneof them is the planet's day sign 
and the other its night sign, which are noted in column 2. 
Exaltation signs and degrees are known to almost all and 
need not be explained that against Aries 'Sun 10'shown means 
that the Sun's exaltation is at the 10 the degree of Aries. The 
next column given the Triplicities of planets and tells you which 
planet governs by day and by night. Against Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces you find Mars who governs by day and by night, but 
against Aries, Leo and Sagittarius. Sun and Jupiter are given. 
That means Sun _ has domination by day and Jupiter by night in 
that Triplicity. 


208 


Sign Howse 


Ti 'plicity 
Exaitation Day Highi 
Sun 10 Sun 
Moon 3 Ven 
Rahu 3 Gat 


o 8 2 2 


N 
D 
Ni 
N 
0 
N 
0 
iH 
8) 
N 


Mar 2é 
Sat 26 


Sat 2 | 


Ven 27 
Ver 19 Jup 25 
Sup 18 Sat 24 


np 19 Me 
Ven 21 Me 27 


| Me 19 Sal 25 


dw 18 Ma 25 
Ver 20 dup 25 
Me 20 Ma 26 


Terms: The first 6 degrees of Aries are the terms of Jupiter, 6 to 14 
are the terms of Venus et. This is somewhat similar to Trimsamsa 
of our traditional system. Face: the first 10 degrees of Aries are the 
Face of Mars; from 10 to 20 is the Face of Sun; from 20 to 30 is 
the Face of Venus, etc. This is something like Drekkana of the 
traditional system, but lordship is different. Detriment: Against 
Aries Venus is mentioned. Venus being in Aries is in a sign 
opposite" to the sign owned by It This is a debility. The last column 
gives the sign of fall (neecha) of planets. 


A planet not only has its fixed implication but also an acquired 
nature. The acquired nature is of two sorts, namely those resulting 
from its situation by sign known as ‘essential dignity' and those 
resulting from its placement by house or from the positions of the 
planets relative to each other (angular relationship) called 
‘accidental dignity*. 


A planet is at its best when located in its own sign. It is next best 
when located in the sign of its exaltation. It is not so strong when in 
the sign of its detriment. It is most weakly located when in the sign 
of its fall. If a planet Is angular i.e., placed in houses 1, 4, 7 and 10 
its strength is the same as though in home or exaltation sign; if in a 
succedent house (2, 5, 8 or 11), it is the same as though in sign of 
detriment, if in a cadent house (3, 6, 9 or 12) it is the same as 
though the planet is in the sign of fall. 


A planet is also deemed to be accidentally dignified when it has 
preponderantly favourable aspects from others or when it is direct 
or swift in motion. Conversely, it is accidentally debilitated 
when occupying the sign opposite its exaltation, or a cadent house 
when retrograde or slower than its mean motion and when 
adversely, aspected by others. 


When a planet is at home (its own sign), exalted dignified by 
position in the chart (in angles or being most elevated or nearest 
the Mid-heaven) or well aspected by beneficent planets, it 
manifests its highest qualities. When a planet is out of dignity 
(out of home sign, exaltation, out of angle etc.) and debilitated 


210 


by unfavourable sign position or aspects, especially by malefic 
planets, the lower side of its nature is more likely to be prominently 
manifested. 


If a planet should receive good aspect froma benefic and 
an adverse aspect from a malefic, the planet in question will 
manifest both sides of its nature when influenced by directions and 
transits and in accordance with the nature of such aspects. 


The influence of natural benefits is weakened when they are retro. 
The condition of retrogradation is contrary or inharmonious to the 
regular direction of actual movement in the zodiac and is in that 
respect evil; hence, when malefics by nature are retrograde, their 
maleficence is increased. Aspects whether radical or progressed 
that are thrown to a retrograde planet, rob the promisor of its 
efficacy what it promises falling short in actual results. Should both 
the planets be retrograde, the thing indicated by the aspect would 
be deficient or disappointing. Hence, retrogradation is considered 
a debility. 


Of retrogradation, it is said that it tends to being out of the 
introspective rather than the objective qualities of the native, and is 
generally synonymous with belated or denied benefits. 


The effect of a planet is usually very strong when it is stationary 
upon the place of a radical or progressed planet or in aspect to 
such. 


The fact that a sign is intercepted in a horoscope neither increases 
nor decreases the force of the tendencies bestowed by that sign. 
Count the number of degrees between planets from sign to sign 
regardless of whether or not a sign is intercepted, Interception is 
an appearance while longitudinal distance is a fact. 


Significance of Aspects 


The Trine (120°) by nature is compared with the Greater Benefic. 
Jupiter, and coincides with faith and confidence of 


211 


fulfilment. Hopes and desires are realised without much effort 
under this aspect. This aspect is associated with Luck and 
Fortune. 


The nature of Sextile (60°) is somewhat like Venus, the lesser 
Benefic. Opportunities are presented when planets form this 
aspect. It is upto the individual to grasp the opportunity and 
realise the result. You should be on the look out for this aspect and 
plan to realise your ambition. While the Trine may be said 
to denote negative good such as a reward for past deeds, the 
Sextile denotes positive good potentiality for the future, the key- 
word is Opportunity. 


The nature of the Semi-sextile (30°) is likened to the Moon and the 
benefits gained must be taken quickly, at it does not have a 
strong stimulation as the Trine or the Sextile Under its effect, 
advantages come in a small way and they should not be over 
looked. Growth is the key-word. 


Harmonious aspects bring results without obstacles, but 
unfavourable aspects, it is stated, do not bar achievement. By hard 
work and employing intelligence, the obstacles can be overcome. 
The adverse aspects are signals that something is out of the kilter 
(good working order). 


The most discordant is the Opposition (180°), Which is like Saturn 
in nature. There are strong conflicts and the constructive attitude 
would be to decide on a long-term policy, which will help in the 
long run, and adhere to it. The significance of this aspect 
is Separation. 


The Square (90°) is comparable to Mars and rouses energetic, 
forceful trends. The obstacles should be viewed as tests for the 
measure of our strength. It is connected with Obstacles. 


The Square is an expanding force that accomplishes against odds 


and strengthen the individual through struggle. In a Square 
the planet that is applying is the own which is attempting to 


212 


break up some hidden condition represented by the planet 
receiving the aspect. A planet may apply its force through natal 
aspects are of long-time influences, whereas the transiting aspects 
are brief. The transiting aspects set in motion natal aspects which 
have remained dormant in the life chart. 


Venus is thoroughly out of gear in the force of the Square, whereas 
Mars is at home. If Venus and Mars are applying in square, it will 
break up the strong personalties in life. 


If Sun applies by square to Neptune, it will, through suffering, 
awaken the native to the need for recognising the truth of the 
present as a reality in life rather than continuing to cling to old 
beliefs. 


If the square is between two planets whose adverse natures are 
similar to a Square, such as Mars, Saturn or Uranus, the 
undesirable features will be accentuated and still worse so if the 
planets involved are in angular houses of the chart and in signs in 
which they are not dignified. The above will be greatly modified 
and would be much less malefic if the planets are Mars in Aries 
and Saturn in Capricorn, in which signs they are dignified than if 
they were in the least expressive signs or cadent houses of the 
chart. 


The same may also ** favourable aspects. If the good aspect is 
formed by benefic planets from signs in which they are dignified, 
and from angular houses, its best and strongest influence will be 
expressed. But if the planets are in signs not agreeable to their 
nature and in cadent houses, the opportunities for the being 
expression of the good aspect are greatly lessened. 


The Semi-square (45°) corresponds to Mercury and is less malefic 
than the square. The key-word is Friction. 


The Sesqunquadrate (135°), if allowed to run its course, usually 
results in inharmonious reaction. Its nature is somewhat like 
Uranus, disruptive and sudden. Agitation is the key-word. 


The Conjunction (Same degree and minute), the Quincunx 
(150° or sashtashtama), and Parallel are neither harmonious nor 
discordant and the effect depends upon the planets involved. 
The Conjunction is likened to the Sound and brings to light the 
events in the individual's birth chart. It rules Prominence. 


The Quincunx is highly separative in action and is likened to 
Neptune. Harmony or discord depends on planets involved. The 
expression is Expansion and is connected with progress and 
experience. 


The Parallel of Declination is not an aspect in the strictest sense of 
the word, as it is formed by planets having the same amount of 
declination either. North or South. There is no definite trend of 
harmony or discord. There is, however, an intensity of energy 
when the Parallel occurs to a planet forming a zodiacal aspect and 
makes a powerful combination. Parallels provide energy through 
which much can be accomplished. Its key-word is Intensity. 


Just as there are Parallels of Declination, which have reference to 
the Celestial Equator, there are Parallels by Latitude, which have 
reference to the Ecliptic. Two planets having the same amount of 
Latitude either North or South, or one North and the other South, 
are also said to be in Parallel. But these are not commonly used. 


Yet another Parallel is the Rapt Parallel, which is a Mundance 
Parallel by direction formed after birth as a result or earth's axial 
rotation whereby the places of the planets are carried from east 
to west to the point where the planets are equidistant from and in 
opposite sides of the same angle. 


The following shows whether the conjunctions and Parallels 
between planets are harmonious or inharmonious: 
Moon - good with Mercury, Venus and Jupiter/ 

- adverse with Mars, Saturn and Uranus. 


214 


- doubtful with Sun, Neptune and Pluto. 


Mercury - good with Venus, Sun and Jupiter. 


adverse with Mars, Saturn and Uranus. 


doubtful with Neptune and Pluto. 


Venus Good with Sun, Jupiterand Neptune. 
adverse with Mars, Saturn and Uranus. 


doubtful with Pluto. 


Sun good with Jupiter. 


adverse with Mars, Saturn and Uranus. 


doubtful with Neptune and Pluto. 
Mars - good with Mars. 


* adverse with Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus 


doubtful with Nepturfeand Pluto. 
Jupiter - Good with Neptune. 

adverse with Saturn and Uranus 
doubtful with Pluto 

Good with Saturn 


Saturn 


adverse with Uranus, Neptune and Pluto 


Uranus good with Uranus. 
- adverse with Neptune and Pluto. 


Apart from the common aspects, there are certain other 
testimonies, which are powerful. 


7ZXO_|* 


Said to a planet closer than 5 degrees to the Sun. It 
introduces factors that considerably alter the interpretation of 
the Conjunction. The characteristic effect to which this term 


215 


applies in confined to within 3 degrees or arc and is more 
pronounced when the planet rises after the Sun. 


Mercury combust imparts to the mind a capacity for concentration 
on what is deemed its own destiny but robs of its receptivity to 
distracting influences. Venus combust takes away the strength to 
achieve, but when in particularly close conjunction with the Sun, it 
is said to produce the condition known as nymphomania. Mars 
combust is always the person who fights for what he wants. One 
whose Mercury is within 5 to 10 degrees of the Sun is seldom 
afflicted with any manner or mental derangement. 


Cazimi 

A planet with 0° -17'of the Sun's longitude is said to be in the heart 
of the Sun or Cazimi. All Ancient authorities deemed that it 
fortified the planet as much as a Combust position 

debilitated it. But modern authorities generally ignore the 
distinction and classify it as Combust. 


Abscission 

When a planet is simultaneously forming an aspect with two other 
planets, the one that culminates first may produce an abscission of 
light (cutting off) that will frustrate the influence of the second 
aspect. 


In horary astrology, when one planet is applying to an aspect of 
another, which aspect would signify some event, before such 
aspect culminates, a third planet by its swifter motion interposes to 
anticipate the culmination of the forming aspect but completing the 
aspect of its own. It is said to frustrate the promised effect of the 
slower moving aspect, constituting a prohibition against its 
operation. The matter thus subjected to prohibition will be retarded 
or utterly prevented, through the influences connected with the 
house of which the frustrating planet is the ruler (or in which it was 
posited at birth). 


216 


If Venus, the lady of the Ascendant of the horary figure, were 
hastening to the trine of Mars, lord of the 7th house, in a question 
of marriage, it would denote that the match would take place, but if 
Mercury were to form an opposition to Mars before Venus reached 
her trine of Mars, it would be a frustration and would show that the 
hopes of the querent would be cut off, and if it were lord of the 
12th, it denotes that would be done by a private or secret enemy; 
if he is lord of 3, by relations and soon. 


Collection of Light 

When a planet receives the aspect of any two planets which are 
not themselves in aspect, that planet is said to collect the light. It 
denotes that the affair will be forwarded by a third person, 
described by that planet, but not unless they both receive him in 
some of their dignities, such as own house, exaltation, triplicity, 
terms, or face (see Table of Dignities given earlier). 


Refranation 

It is a term used in ‘horary astrology, when the faster of the two 
planets applying to an aspect turns retrograde before the aspect is 
complete. 


Suppose two planets are in direct motion and one of them 'B' 
occupies the 20th degree of Thula and ‘A’ is either in Mithuna or 
Kumbha in the 15th degree 'A', as the faster of the two, will move 
towards the 20th degree of Mithuna or Kumbha from where it will 
throw a trine aspect to B's position. If 'A', before reaching the 20th 
degree of Mithuna or Kumbha from where it will throw a trine 
aspect to B's position. If 'A', before reaching the 20th degree of 
Mithuna or Kumbha turns retrograde, the trine aspect will never 
culminate. It is an indication that the matter under negotiation will 
not be brought to a successful conclusion. (If, on the other hand, 
the faster planet 'A’ in 15° Mithuna or Kumbha continues in direct 
motion and the slower planet 'B' goes retrograde, the aspect will 
culminate sooner than when 'B' is direct. It is one of mutual 
application, both planets applying to the aspect). 


217 


When the quicker of the two bodies in aspect turns retrograde 
before the aspect is full, it is said to separate from the aspect. 
When both bodies turn retrograde before the aspect is exact, 
doubtless a mutual separation is effected. These relations have 
distinct significations. The party representing the planet thus 
separating will decline the proposition, back out of the agreement 
or contract. When both the planets turn retrograde, there will be 
annulation by mutual consent. Similar effects have been noticed in 
regard to marriage. 


Translation of Light 


When a transiting planet separates from as anpect to one 
planet and applies, at the same time, to an aspect to another, it 
imparts some of influence of the first aspected planet to the second 
aspected planet by a translation of light. 


If. in a horary figure, for instance Jupiter or Saturn, the significators 
of the parties to the negotiation of an agreement are beyond the 
orb of an opposition (Jupiter in 25 Makara and Saturn in 15° 
Kataka) but a third planet. Venus in 20th degree to Thula while 
separating from Saturn is applying to Jupiter, which is a powerful 
testimony that a settlement will be brought about by a person or an 
idea that Venus represents. The nature of the aspect and of the 
aspected and the aspecting planets, through which the translation 
is accomplished, determines whether or not the out come will be 
fortuitous. Separating from a malefic and applying to an aspect 
with a benefits is deemed to be favourable. 


Mathematical Astrology 


Now that we are dealing with aspects, a few words about 
"Directions", which are also apects but calculated in a different 
way, may not be out of place. Directions are applicable to nativities 
and not to horary maps, in which the aspects are computed purely 
by longitude. 


The zodiacal position of a body is its position in the ecliptic 
circle and is expressed by their two coordinates, the celestial 


*)0 


longitude and celestial latitude. The zodiacal positions of 
bodies at birth are known as radical positions. 


The zodiacal cusps have only longitude and no latitude, being 
ecliptic points. They are found worked in Tables of Houses. 


The mundane position of a body is its position in the heavens in 
relation to a particular birth place on earth. It is stated in one of 
two ways (a) by the angular distance at which the body is from its 
nearer meridional half, that is from its nearer meridional half, that 
is upper meridional distance or lower meridional distance, or (b) 
by the angular distance at which the body is either forwards 
(anticlockwise) from the cusp of its mundane house, which is 
termed cuspal distance forwards, or backwards (clockwise) from 
the cusp of its next anticlockwise house, termed the cuspal 
distance backwards. To find these mundane positions the Right 
Ascensions, the Declinations and the semi-arcs of bodies have to 
be worked out. 


At the time of birth of a child, a few radical aspects may have 
been completed. As time passes, bodies change their positions 
and are brought to aspects of the radical positions of their own 
and those of other bodies. The dislocation of birth positions of 
bodies are brought by; 

(1) the eastward axial rotation of the earth, which causes celestial 
bodies to appear to rise in the east, to culminate in the mid- 
heaven and to set in the west, thus shifting from their birth 
positions; 

(2) the eastward annual rotation of bodies round the Sun and, of 
the Moon round the Earth. The change in the positions of bodies 
necessary to bring them into new aspects of the birth positions of 
other bodies or of their own radical positions is called a Direction. 
Therefore, a direction is an aspect to be formed in the future. In 
radical aspects, we note the aspects of bodies to other bodies 
taking all as they stood at birth. But in directions, we note the 
aspects of bodies taken at their subsequent positions to them, 
selves or other bodies as they stood at birth or at a subsequent 
moment 


Directions are classified into two groups, Primary and 
Secondary. A primary Directions is one that rests on the apparent 


219 


diurnal rotation of the heavens and a Secondary direction is one 
which rests on the annual revolution of bodies. Primary 
Directions are also divided into mundane and zodiacal. Primary 
mundane directions are those in which the aspect extents of 
directions are measured on the equatorial circle and the primary 
zodiacal directions are those in which the aspect extents of 
directions are measured upon the ecliptic circle. But Secondary 
directions are all zodiacal directions as the aspects are always 
measured up in the ecliptic. A primary or secondary 
direction may be direct or converse. When the body is moved 
clockwise, it is said to be a direct direction but when it is 
moved in anti- clockwise direction, it is a converse direction. 
But in primary zodiacal directions and in secondary directions, 
if the directed body is moved anti-clockwise it is a direct 
direction, since the anti-clockwise course of direction, is in 
consonance with the annual motion of bodies, and if the 
directed body is moved clockwise, it is a converse direction, 
since the clockwise course is opposed to the natural anti- 
clockwise annual motion of bodies. 


The time when the effects of a direction are said to be realised in 
life is always at a period later than the time when the direction 
will stand completed. Every four minutes after birth in primary 
directions and every day after birth in secondary ones measure 
to one year in life. 


The common rate of motion of all bodies is 360 equatorial 
degrees in 24 sidereal hours or one degree in 4 sidereal minutes. 
One equatorial degree of four sidereal minutes measures to one 
year of life. As one degree is rotated in four minutes and as one 
degree measures to one year of life, an error of about four 
minutes in the birth time of an individual, will not only shift the 
positions of the fast moving planets but will also produce an 
error of about one year in the periods to which the primary 
directions measure. Therefore, the precise moment of birth 
should be ascertained. 


220 


Essential Date & Calculations 


The essential data required to proceed to calculate the arcs 
of directions are Latitude, Declination, Right Ascension or 
Ascension Right, Meridian distance and semi arcs of planets. 
The latitude, declination and longitude of planets can be found in 
any reliable ephemeris Right Ascension and _ Assertional 
Difference are available readily worked in some of the text-books. 
However, these can be calculated by _ trigonometry. 
Meridian distance, oblique ascension, oblique descention, etc. 
have also to be calculated. 


Right Ascension is the circle of declination reckoned towards the 
east from zero degree Aries measured in the plane of the 
celestial equator. Oblique Ascension is measured on the Prime 
Vertical. Oblique Ascension is required when a planet is rising 
from the 4th towards the ascendant upto the 10th. Oblique 
Descension is required when a planet is descending from the 
10th to the 4th through the 7th. any planet on the eastward side 
of the line drawn between the 4th and the 10th houses, which, 
by the diurnal motion of the earth, is rising in the heavens. 


Ascensional difference is the difference between the Right 
Ascension of any body and its Oblique Ascension. 


The Meridian Distance of a body is found by taking the distance 
between the R.A. (right ascension) of the Mid-heaven and the 
planet, if it be above the horizon; and the difference between the 
R.A. of the cusp of the 4th house or northern meridian, if the 
planet be below the horizon. The R.A. of the 4th house is found 
by adding 180 to the R.A. of the Meridian and if it exceeds 360 
degrees, take that number from it. 


The Oblique Ascension of the six eastern houses is found by 
adding 30 degrees successively to the R.A. of the MO, rejecting 
360 degrees if it exceeds that number. The Oblique Descension 
of the six western houses is obtained by adding 180 degrees to 
the Oblique Ascension of the opposite houses and the sum is the 
descension required. 

221 


Formula 
To find a planet's Right Ascension, given Latitude, longitude 
and declination: 


Add together the arithmetical complement of the Cosine of the 
declination and cosine of the longitudinal distance and the 
cosine of latitude, and the sun will be the cosine of the Right 
Ascension or the planet from Aries or Libra, when the longitude 
was taken. 


If the planet be in Aries. Taurus or Gemini, the arc thus found 
will be the R.A. But if it be in Cancer, Leo or Virgo, it must be 
subtracted from 180 degrees; If in Capricorn, Aquarius or 
Pisces, the arc thus found must be substracted from 360 
degrees. 


To find a planet's Ascensional Difference under the pole of the 
horoscope: 

Add the Tangent of the latitude of the given place (or birth place) 
to the Tangent of the planet's declination and the sum will be the 
Sine of Ascensional Difference under the pole of the country. 


To find the Semi-diurnal arc of a star planet) above the earth: 
If the planet be above the earth in North declination, add the 
Ascensional Difference to 90 degrees; but if the declination is 
South, substract the Ascensional Difference from 90 degrees 
for its Semi arc. 


To find the Semi nocturnal arc of a body when below the earth: 
If the body has North declination, subtract the Ascensional 
Difference from 90 degrees; but if in South declination, add the 
ascensional difference to 90 for the semiarc. 


Subtract the acquired arc from 180 and the remainder is the 
contra-semiarc. 


222 


To find the Logarithm of Circle of position of a planet, add 
the Arithmetical Complement of the planet's semi-arc to the 
proportional logarithm (Ternary) of 90 (3010) and the sum is the 
logarithm of circle of position. This is retained as a logarithm for 
future use. 

To find a planet's difference of Circle of position or second 
meridian distance in any figure add together the logarithm of 
circle of position to the logarithm of the planet's Meridian 
Distance and the sum is the proportional logarithm of the 
distance of the circle of position. 
The circle of position of all planets between the Meridian and the 
Horizon are analogous to the circles of latitude, which are small 
circles of the sphere having their planets parallel with the plane 
of the Meridian. The Circle of Position of a planet has a certain 
point where it and the Pole of the planet intersect the Equator. 
The Circle of Position being obtained, we have only to find the 
difference between it and the distance of the planet itself and we 
get the ascensional difference of the planet under its own pole. 
Therefore, to find a planet's Ascensional Difference under its 
own Pole, the difference between the planet's Meridian distance 
and the difference of its circle of position gives the answer. To 
the Sine of Ascensional Difference last found, add the Co- 
tangent of its declination and the sum will be the tangent 
of its pole. 
To find the oblique ascension or descension under its own pole; 
Add the Ascensional Difference to its R.A. if the 
declination is South; but subtract the ascensional difference if 
the declination be North, from the R.A., and the result is the 
Oblique Ascension. 
If the star has North declination, add the ascensional difference 
to R.A.; and if South, substract, the result is the Oblique 
Descension. 


223 


The Ascensional Difference has been subtracted in both 
cases though the declinations are one north and the other south. 
But it will be perceived that when the declination is North, the 
difference is taken for Oblique Ascension and the difference for 
Oblique Descension if the declination is South and vice versa. 


Primary Mundane Directions 


Primary Mundane Directions may be viewed to be direct or 
converse. Direct Mundane Primary Directions are those in which 
the directed body is moved clockwise and Converse Primary 
Mundane Directions are those in which the directed body is 
moved anti-clockwise. The path of Directions is along the 
Equator. Only a celestial body can be the directed body and only 
an angle or the radical position of a body can be the stationary 
position. In Primary Mundane Directions, the directed body is 
directed to a mundane aspect of the position of an angle or 
radical body only. As there are nine bodies, we have 99 groups 
of primary directions, with the same directed body and stationary 
position. As there are 12 important aspects, we obtain 1188 
possible primary mundane directions. 


The aspects in Mundo, otherwise known as Mundare or 
Horizontal aspects, are merely the divisions of the semi-arcs is a 
semi-square one-third is a semi-sextile, two thirds is a sextile, 
the whole of the semi-arc is a Square; one semi-arc and one- 
third of another is a Trine; one semi-arc and a half is a Sesqui- 
quadrate etc. A semi-arc always bearing the same proportion to 
the 12 houses as 90 degrees do to the circle of 12 signs of the 
zodiac, it follows that two-thirds of it forms a Sextile, as two- 
thirds of 90 degrees is 60 degrees, a Sextile in the zodiac etc. 


Whenever an aspect is measured between two planets, any 
other aspect may be ascertained if it falls in the same 
hemisphere, by merely taking the relative proportion of the semi- 
arc of the planet to be directed. Thus, if we know the distance 
between two planets, etc., the arc of direction, to the conjunction, 
then one-half of the semi-arc of the planet which is directed, 


224 


added to that will give the arc of direction to the semi-quartile; by 
adding one-sixth of the semi-arc to this, we have the arc of 
direction to the sextile; one-third more of the semi-arc will give 
the square and another third, the trine; to which add one-sixth for 
the sesquiquadrate. 


To direct the mid-heaven to the opposition of a star bring it to the 
cusp of the 4th house; to the trine, bring it to the 2nd or 6th 
house; for the quartile, to the ascendant or the 7th; to the sixtile, 
it must be brought to the cusp of the 12th or the 8th; the sesqui- 
quadrateralls in the middle of the 2nd and the 5th houses. All 
aspects in Mundo are measured by the semi-arc of the promisor. 


In all cases if the secondary distance of a planet is on the same 
side of the cusp from where the primary was taken, when the 
aspect is complete, subtract the primary and the secondary 
distance from each other and the difference will be the arc of 
direction. But if the primary and the secondary distance from 
each other and the difference will be the arc of direction. But if 
the primary and the secondary distances be on different sides of 
the cusp when the primary was taken, then add them, and the 
sum will be the arc of direction. 


Directions of Pars Fortuna 


While on the subject of Directions, a short note on the Pars 
Fortunae (Part of Fortune) is necessary. Whatever distance the 
Sun is from the Moon, measured by oblique ascension, so far is 
the Part of Fortune from the Ascendant. If the Sun is exactly 
ascending at birth, the place of the Part of Fortune will be exactly 
that in which the Moon is at that time. Therefore, to find the Right 
Ascension of Part of Fortune (a significant sensitive point related 
to the three centres of a chart-the Sun, the Moon and the 
Ascendant): 


Add 90 degrees to Right Ascension of the M.C. and it will give 
the oblique ascension of the Ascendant. From the oblique 


225 


ascension of the Ascendant, subtract the oblique ascension of 
the Sun and to the remainder, add the Right Ascension of Moon; 
the sum will be the Right Ascension of Fortuna. 


To find the situation of the Pat of Fortune in the figure at birth, 
find its distance from the nearest meridian, bearing in mind that 
the Fortuna is always under the Horizon before full Moon, 
At Full Moon it is on the cusp of the 7th house (if Moon has no 
latitude) and that after Full Moon it is always above the Horizon. 


The semi-arc of Fortuna is always the same as that of the Moon 
if they are both above or under the Horizon; but if one is above 
and the other is under the horizon, Fortuna will have the 
opposite semi-arc to Moon, which may be found by taking the 
semi-arc of Moon from 180 degrees. 


The Part of Fortune is a fixed point and has no motion of itself. 
Bodies or planets may be carried to it or form aspects with it, 
except the Rapt Parallel Fortuna cannot itself move onwards 
either in the zodiac or by converse motion. The Fortuna 
forms no zodiacal aspects; it is capable of direct motion only. 


To direct the Sun, the Moon or any planet to an aspect of the 
Part of Fortune, (a) Semi-arc of Fortuna : its distance from any 
house it may be nearer: semi-arc of the planet directed: that 
planet's second distance to the house which is the aspect with 
the house to which Fortuna is measured from; (b) add or 
subtract the second distance from the apparent, according as 
the planet passes or falls short of the house, the sum or the 
difference is the arc of direction. 


Primary zodiacal Directions 


The Sun. Moon, Ascendant and the Mid-heaven alone can be 
directed in the zodiac. The principle on which these directions 
are based is the subtraction of the oblique ascension of either of 
the first three, taken under its own pole, from the oblique 
ascension of the place of the aspect taken under the same pole. 


226 


The pole of sun or Moon is certain elevation they have from 
the Meridian towards the horizon. If they be exactly on the 
Meridian, they have no pie and the arc of the direction must be 
found by Right Ascension. So also, the Mid heaven having no 
pole, must be directed by right ascension only. If the Sun or 
Moon be exactly on the horizon, they will have the polar 
elevation of the horizon itself, which is always the latitude of the 
country. The ascendant, when directed, must always be directed 
under the pole or latitude of the place of birth. 


The elevation or pole of the descendant is relative to the north or 
south latitude of the place for which a map is erected (latitude of 
the birth place). The Poles of the Houses increase as they 
recede from the Imum Coeli and the Midheaven, which have no 
polar elevation, towards the ascendant and the descendant. The 
cusps of the intermediate houses have polar elevation 
proportional to the positions at which they cut the Prime 
Vertical - the circle in which a person stands when facing South. 
The Pole of a planet is found by the formula: 


One-third of the planet's semi-arc: to the difference of elevation 
of two cusps: the planet's cuspal distance: its proportional polar 
distance. To ascertain the cuspal distance of a planet, from the 
oblique ascension of the cusp subtract the planet's oblique 
Ascension or Decension under the pole of the cusp. 


The place of the aspect or promoter must be taken without 
latitude in all directions in the zodiac, except those of the Moon, 
because when Moon is directed to the conjunction of any planet 
and when she arrives at the longitude of an opposite nature to 
the planet, 6 or more degrees of difference of latitude between 
them, and the conjunction will have no power, tf it should be an 
Opposition, it would be perfect, as it would have contrary 
latitude. Therefore, on coming to an Opposition, if the Moon 
should have extensive latitude of the same name as the planet, 
the direction is weak. 


227 


Direct Sun to the Square of Moon in the Zodiac: 


Ascertain the oblique ascension of Sun under his own pole 
if he is ascending or his oblique descension if he is descending. 
Sun is ascending from midnight till noon and descending from 
noon till midnight. 


(1) Add the ascensional difference to AR if the declination 
is South, but subtract it from the AR ifthe declination 
is North, the result is oblique ascension. 


(2) Forthe Oblique descension do the reverse : Add the 
ascensional difference to AR if the declination is South. 


Find the declination of the place of aspect and find its Log 
Tangent, to which add Log. Tangent of Sun's Pole. The sum will be 
the Log Sine of the aspect's ascensional difference under that pole. 
With this ascensional difference find its oblique ascension or 
descension as the case may be. Lastly, subtract that of the Sun from 
that of the aspect and the remainder will be the arc of direction. 


Moon in Aries 5 degs. 39 mins. When sun comes to 
Capricorn 5.39, he will from a square aspect to the place of 
Moon at birth. It is calculated as under: 


Declination of aspect Capricorn 


5-39 is 23-21 Its Log Tangent 9.63519 
Log. Tangent of Sun's Pole 20.50 is 9.58039 
The sum is the Log Sine of Ascen- 9.21558 


sional Difference of the aspect under 
Sun's Pole 9 27 (9 27 is the answer 
to Log Sine 9.21558) 


Then from AR of Capricorn 5.39 


which is 276°9 
Subtract the Asc. Difference as its 
Declination is South 9.27 


228 


It leaves the oblique descension of the 
aspect under Sun's Pole 


From which substract the oblique 
descension of Sun under Sun's Pole 247.20 


Arc of direction Sun square Moon in the 
zodiac 19.22 


If the above process is thought tedious operation, the 
aspects can be worked by the semi-arcs without reference to 
the Poles. The rule is: 


As the semi-arc of the significator (Sun, Moon or 
Ascendant) is to its distance from the Meridian, so is 
the semi-arc of the place of aspect to its second 
distance. The sum or the difference of the aspect's 
primary and secondary distance from the Meridian is 
the arc of direction. These proportions are worked by 
Ternary proportional logarithms. 


Secondary Directions 

Secondary directions rest upon the phenomenon of the anti- 
clockwise annual motion of the bodies in the heavens, due to 
the orbital revolution of the planets round the Sun, and of the 
Moon round the Earth. In consequence, celestial bodies appear 
to us to be moving anti-clockwise in the heavens, each at its 
own rate of daily motion, but not at the rate of its apparent 
diurnal clockwise motion as in the primary directions. Therefore 
bodies are brought to occupy new Zodiacal positions. The new 
zodiacal positions occupied by bodies and angles after every 24 
hours from birth are known as progressed positions on the 
corresponding progressed dates. Bodies at their progressed 
positions are progressed bodies Bodies are progressed to the 
zodiacal positions of all angles and radical bodies including 
themselves and to the zodiacal positions of all angles and other 
progressed bodies that are lower in their annual motions than 
themselves. As secondary directions are slowly formed and 


229 


slowly dissolved, an error of even half-an-hour in the birth time 
would produce in the time measure only a difference of about a 
week. As the aspects and arcs are measured upon the ecliptic 
and not refered to the equator all secondary directions are purely 
zodiacal, the course of direction is always anti-clockwise and 
there are no converse secondary directions. 


The movement by one body in one day is made to measure to 
one year of life. Since one day measures to one year of life in 
secondary directions to find out the directions that will operate 
during a particular ordinal year, we should cast horoscopes for the 
moment of birth on the two ordinal number of days corresponding 
to the required ordinal year of life. This is the Progressed 
Horoscope. A map for 26 complete days after birth will from 
a Progressed Horoscope for 26 years of age. If a native is born 
on 26th May 1937,2.40 p.m., the Progressed Horoscope for 26 
years of age will be calculated for 21st June, 1937 at 2.40 
p.m. as in done in the case of a life chart. 


Epochal Aspects 

Epochal aspects are the zodiacal aspects formed at a particular 
epoch between two celestial bodies as they stood at the epoch. 
The epoch commonly adopted are (1) Synodical Lunation, (2) 
Solar Revolution or Return, (3) Current Synodical Lunation,(4) 
Lunar Revolution and (5) Birth Map. 


A Synodical Lunation is the return of the Moon after birth date of 
the same relative distance from the Sun, as it was at birth. It takes 
approximately 29.5 days for the Moon to make a Synodic return. 
Every 29.5 days after birth, the Synodical return of Moon to the 
same relative distance from the Sun that it was at birth takes 
place. It is held that the aspects subsisting between celestial 
bodies at a particular Synodic Lunation after birth, bear fruit in the 
same ordinal number of years of life as that of the synodic 
lunation. (reader comment; looks like tithi pravesh) 


Solar Return : This is the return of the Sun of the same longitude 
as it was at birth. This occurs once in a year about the 


birth date. It is held that the aspects subsisting between celestial 
bodies at the moment when Sun occupies the same longitude as 
at birth, operates during the year succeeding the moment of birth. 
The map of the heavens erected for the moment of the solar 
revolution or return in a year is also known as the BIRTH- DAY 
MAP For this, the Sun's (longitude at birth should be taken 
correct to the second of arc) longitude as otherwise there will be 
an error in the longitudes of the cusps even to the extent of six 
degrees. The aspects bear fruit during the year extending from 
one solar return to the next. 


Lunar Return or Revolution / This is the return of the Moon to the 
same longitude as it held at birth. It occurs once in bout 27 days 
and it is held that the aspects subsisting between the heavenly 
bodies at the moment when the Moon occupies the same 
longitude as the birth bear fruit during the lunar month of 27 days 
succeeding the moment of return. The map erected for 
the moment of lunar return is also Known as MONTHLY MAP. 


Diurnal Map is the one cast for the moment of birth on a given 
date. The apparent time of birth on everyday is taken and its 
mean time equivalent is found and the horoscope is cast for it. 
The aspects at the moment of birth on every day are held to 
portend the events to transpire during the day. 


Transits : 
Transits are current aspects formed between the current 
positions of bodies and the radical or progressed positions of 
bodies and angles. A transit is the passage of a body over the 
radical or progressed positions of bodies and angles. The 
passage of a body over the point opposite to a radical or 
progressed position is also regarded as a transit. 


In order to differentiate these conjunctions and oppositions from 
the ordinary ones, they are known as conjunctions by transit and 
opposition by transit. Transit by square and by trine adopted are 
stated by some to be of subordinate value. 


Of the four angles and nine bodies, the Mid-heaven and the 
Ascendant and the luminaries are universally held to be the four 
important significators and the remaining seven planets are taken 
to be of minor value. The body passing over a radical or 
progressed position is the transiting body or exciter or promisor 
and it may be any one of the nine bodies. The transit of Jupiter, 
Saturn, Uranus and Neptune over the significators lasts for a long 
period. The transit of Mars is less lasting than the former 
but decisive and so important Moon, Mercury, Venus and the 
Sun being quickly moving bodies, their transits are ephemeral 
lasting for a few hours as in the case of Moon, or a few days 
as in the case of the others But the transits of the luminaries are 
held to be very effective, especially when they pass through the 
houses of the horoscope. 


In determining transits, an orb of one or two degrees is allowed. 
Transits also include New Moons. Full Moons and Eclipses. These 
can be found from the aspectarian given in the emphemeris. To 
determine the transits, we have to find the positions of the 
Conjunction, Opposition, the Square and the Trine with the two 
angles and the two luminaries both at birth and at the moment of 
birth on the progressed date corresponding to the given time and 
these have to be arranged in a numerically increasing order to 
facilitate spotting out transits. The, the range of positions of all the 
nine planets during the given period is to be noted. The given 
period may be any one day or any longer period. The range of 
positions of a body during a period is its position at the Greenwich 
mean-midnights at the beginning and at the end of the period. 
Record all eclipses, New Moons, Full Moons occurring in the given 
period. Now all the coincidences of the current positions of the 
nine bodies with the radical and progressed positions of the four 
aspects to the two angles and the two luminaries are noted as 
transits. 


Radix Important: 


If a planet is fortunately aspected and free from afflictions in the 
horoscope, even serious directions to it, such as squares 


232 


and oppositions, will have only a limited power to harm, while 
good directions to it will mark periods of decided good fortune. If 
planets are heavily afflicted at birth, evil directions to them will be 
serious and dangerous and good ones will be restricted in their 
scope. 


The planets in strong good aspect at birth mark periods all through 
life and the two that are seriously and closely afflicted will always 
be a source of trouble and danger under adverse directions and 
transits. 


Directions should be interpreted in terms of the positions of the 
planets in the horoscope of birth, except when both the bodies that 
from the direction are progressed or when the direction is to a 
progressed angle, the Progressed horoscope should be consulted. 


The direction of a heavenly body to the cusp of the Ascendant or 
to the M.C. certainly produces an effect and sometimes, an event 
that would otherwise be left blank for directions. They are 
stimulated into action by the occurrence of lunar directions, 
transits, eclipses or lunations falling in conjunction or opposition to 
the cusp or the planet with which it is in aspect. The same will 
happen is the Moon or some other quick moving body translates 
light between a cusp and the body with which it is in aspect, i.e., 
forms a direction first to one and then to the other. 


Strong directions formed by slow-moving bodies extend their 
influence over considerable periods and are liable to produce 
effects whenever similar lunar directions, transits or eclipses 
coincide. But even otherwise, slow-moving directions can act 
when they are due even if no lunar direction or transits occur. 


A solar aspect (aspects formed by Sol or the Sun to the Moon and 
other planets is anticipated by the Moon forming a similar aspect 
some months prior to the actual formation of the solar aspect, or it 
may, on the other hand, be delayed till the lunar aspects coincide 
come months after the solar aspect is formed. 


233 


The Moon's aspects formed by the progress of the Moon 
round the horoscope, are of vital importance when they coincide 
with solar and mutual aspects (mutual aspects are those formed 
among planets themselves part from the luminaries). Otherwise, 
the lunar aspects are indicative of what could happen under the 
lunar influence, no matter however strong the aspect in itself. 


A powerful square at birth can only be slightly modified by a trine 
aspect in progressed horoscope, while a trine at birth cannot be 
overcome by any severe aspects in affliction with that trine. 


Mutual aspects remain in force for several years but are never 
wholly complete till the Moon forms some aspect there to and 
then only fully when the solar influences are of a similar nature. 


By the favourable progress of the two benefits, Jupiter and 
Venus, all aspects of adverse nature, will be considerably 
mitigated. It will only as well this article if all the rules of 
calculating the directions are fully explained in an understandable 
way. Therefore, a short resume is given to have an idea of the 
manner in which these directions are calculated. All the directions 
that can possibly occur in a life time can be computed, but that 
will involve time consuming calculations. 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati and Aspects 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati is not shy of adopting what is good 
or practically useful in other systems of astrology, be it traditional 
or western. From this it should not be abruptly concluded that 
prof. KSK is a colossal copyist of other systems or that KP is 
just old wine in new bottle and that is has no originally. Those who 
are inclined to pass such a hasty judgment, are to say the least, 
doing so without impartially assessing the merits of KP For that 
matter can they say that the star astrologer Varahamihira who 
flourished in the 15th Century A.D. is only a copyist of the Great 
Parsara, etc? Certainly not. As Varahamihira had the extensive 
grace of the Sun God, he could see precisely in his 


234 


mind's eye what exactly would be the outcome of a certain 
planetary position. Whatever he uttered, came true to the word. 
Our Jyotish Marthand. K.S. Krishnamurti had the grace of Lord 
Ushishta Mahaganapathi and the planets spoke to him literally, 
so he was giving his prognostications like a wizard, however 
complicated the problem put forward might be. Non-conformists 
of the Padhdhati believe that the stellar theory is already 
explained. They base this belief by reason of the (reference in the 
old texts to the method of) ascertaining the dasa and bhukti at the 
time of birth with reference to the stellar position of the Moon. 
They refuse to understand when contracted that nowhere in the 
old texts even a brief mention is made of the stellar system 
of which Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti has extensively dealt with and 
has written volumes and volumes basing his analysis of nativities 
or horary figures on stellar position of planets. There is reason to 
believe that the ancient minds had a complete comprehension of 
the various influences at work in the Cosmos and had known 
about the perfect scheme prediction based on nakshatras and 
their sub-divisions, but whatever fragments of the old texts are 
scattered here and there at the present time do not form 
a continuous link to understand the science properly and correctly. 
To the late Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti goes the credit of resurrecting 
the science of stellar astrology, and K.S. Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
is an attempt to supply the missing link. In his system, the benefic 
or malefic nature of the constellation tenanted, or of the 
constellation lord, is not so much a significant factor as the house 
which the constellation lord occupies in a particular nativity and 
the house(s) it owns. While the unequal division of the 
nakshatras had existed from time immemorial, no one had known 
or claimed to have known, the efficacy of these unequal 
subdivisions of the nakshatras, or of the  nakshatras 
themselves, before the late Professor propounded his theory. 
The stellar system of predictive astrology enunciated in 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati is entirely novel. 


Maybe, by the benevolence of good Saturn and the 4th house, 
fortune favoured digging up a treasure of are containing molecules 


235 


of gold. The ore is kept in the crude form and yet pleasure is 
derived by calling it gold How can it shine and show its luster 
without being refined? As there is no Uranian urge for research 
which Jyothish Marthand KSK had, to probe into it, as there is no 
assistance from Venus to refine it, or Sun-Neptune blend to 
recognize the truth of Krishnamurti Padhdhati as a reality of the 
modem age, shelter is taken under the adage "Old is gold". 


Contrary to the view of the non-conformists KP is unique in itself 
in that, after many years of research the exponent of the system. 
Jyotish Marthand K.S. Krishnamurti, had found the truth 
that; 


“A planet in a constellation gives the result of the houses 
owned and occupied by the lord of the constellation, and 
that if the Sub occupied by the tenant planet is favourable, 


the matter comes through and is enjoyed, but if the sub is 
unfavourable, failure knocks at the door." 


This is the sheet-anchor of KP and is universally applied without 
exception to all queries, whether judged from birth charts or 
horary maps. This system is as simple as it is scientific and 
effective. The elephant is a huge animal having its eyes 
disproportionately smaller. It does not follow that the elephant, 
on account of the small eyes, will be lacking in good eye 
sight. Similarly, KP should not be brushed aside as having 
nothing of intrinsic value because of its simplicity. 


As aspects are modifying influences, surpassing even the lord of 
the constellation and the lord of the sub in the horoscope, and a 
prediction is never complete unless the aspects are properly 

computed, studied and the results judged, Krishnamurti 

Padhdhati recognises all the aspects of the western system. In 

addition, aspects like 24, 54, 126 and 162 degrees, which are 

mildly beneficial, and aspects of 21-1/2 degrees and its multiples 
67-1/2,112-1/2, 157-1/2 etc. which are feebly adverse in nature, 


are also employed for studying details. All these aspects are 
required to be exact for operation, but in actual practice, they are 
seen to be effective even within an orb of half to three- fourths of 
a degree. Besides, Progression and Transits are followed for 
precise timing of events. | say the aspects are stronger than the 
constellation lord and the sub-lord because although the dasa 
and bhukti lords who are strong significators by constellation and 
their subs are also powerfully strong, if the aspect between the 
dasa lord and the bhukti lord is evil, instead of the happy results, 
only unfavourable and diametrically opposite results will be 
experienced. 


The aspects employed in Krishnamurti Padhdhati either for the 
delineation of nativities or for judging horary figures, are all 
zodiacal, measured by longitude only. While the westerners 
attach much importance to the nature of planets involved in an 
aspect, Krishnamurti Padhdhati lays stress on the need to see 
whether the planets involved in an aspect are benefics by 
lordship and occupation of constellations, since the results shown 
by the constellation lord will be pronounced. The_ planet 
associated with the lord of a beneficial house in the chart is very 
good and auspicious. Any connection with the lords of houses 6, 
8 or 12 either by being conjoined with them or occupying their 
constellations is evil and such a planet's aspect cannot be 
expected to be being, because it becomes afflicted. 


What_a planet has to offer by lordship will even change the 
results indicated by its nature. Jupiter, a natural benefic, owing 
evil houses will be evil; much worse if it is in the constellation of a 
planet who is lord of an evil house. On the other hand, Saturn, a 
natural malefic, owning good houses will turn out to be a benefic. 
If his constellation lord owns or occupies favourable houses, 
Saturn will do immense good and the good aspect of such 
a significator will be of assistance. 


A planet placed in a sign which is in 6, 8 or 12 to the one it 
owns is to give diametrically opposite results signified by the 


houses concerned. Here the aspects play a vital role. Not 
withstanding such a bad relation, if the longitudinal distance 
between the planet and the cusp of the house to which it is in 6, 
8 or 12 relation constitutes a harmonious angle, no unfavourable 
effects will be bestowed. A planet though in the 12th, can be in 
Vigintile (180) or semisextile (30°); so also a planet in six can be 
in trine. If a planet owns two signs, only that house to which it is 
in bad aspect will suffer but not the other. The matter of the 
house to which it is in good aspect will more pronouncedly 
manifest than the other. 


Aspects formed from Cardinal, or moveable, signs (chara rasis) 
are the strongest and the next in strength are the aspects 
formed in fixed signs (sthira rasis) Aspects formed in common 
signs (ubhaya rasis) are the weakest. A planet in exaltation is 
the strongest, next in strength is Vargottama Asma the 
Moolatrikona is the third degree of strength, swakshetra is the 
next in order of strength and the least in power to do good is the 
planet in a friend's sign. A planet in Neecha, enemy" camp or 
connected with malefics in any manner is said to be weakly 
posited and afflicted. The aspect of an afflicted planet will be no 
use for favourable results. 


Planets in accidental dignities, i.e. in Kendras or angular houses 
(1,4,7 and 10) attain full power to express themselves and their 
aspects will be powerful. Planets in succeedents or Panaparas 
(2, 5, 8 and 11) gain moderate strength. Those in cadent houses 
or Apoklimas (3,6,9 and 12) get weakened and they are lacking 
opportunity to express themselves. The aspect of a planet from 
a sign of its own nature, as Mars in a fiery sign will be strong. 


The dignities etc. according to the Indian system are given 


below. Ucha, Neecha, Swakshetra are all the same as in the 
western system. 


*+0 


Planet Moola Trikona Degrees Friend Enemy 


Sun Leo 0 to 20 Moon, Mars Saturn Venus 

Moon Taurus 4 to 30 Sun, Mercury None 

Mars Aries 0 to 18 Sun. Moon, Jupiter Mercury 

Mercury Virgo 16 to 20 Saturn Moon 

Jupiter Sagit 0 to 13 Sun, Moon, Mars Mercury, 
Venus 

Venus Libra 0 to 10 Saturn, Mercury 
Sun, Moon 

Saturn Aquarius 0 to 20 Mercury, Venus Sun, Moon, 
Mars. 


Vargottamamsa: first Navamsa of Aries, Cancer, Libra and 
Capricorn (0 to 3.20 degrees); last Navamsa of Gemini, Virgo 
Sagittarius and Pisces (26.40 to 30 degrees). 


How a planet is influenced by the aspects to give of the higher or 
lower side of its qualities is tried to be explained below: 

Mars is a malefic by nature. If it receives good aspects and is not 
afflicted, it offers good qualities as self-confidence, quick mental 
activity, organising ability, independent spirit, leadership in all 
pursuits etc. But if Mars is afflicted, all the good qualities 

will be absent and the native will be rash and lose temper 
quickly. As Mars denotes strife, he will be quarrelsome. 


Moon denotes the mind and Mercury denotes intelligence. If 
Moon and Mercury are in good aspect, this aspect gives fertile 
imagination. If they are in bad aspect, he becomes confused. 
Again, Moon is a watery planet and shows changeability. If 
Moon and Saturn are in good aspect, he becomes steady. So 
also, Mercury is an unsteady planet and Mercury-Saturn good 
aspect makes Mercury become steady. 


If Mars forms good aspect with lord of 2 or 6 10 in Virgo (Mars- 


Mercury combination), the native may interest himself in press, 
printing, publishing or serve as a clerk in an industry 


239 


(Mercury denotes white collared gentry and Mars denotes 
industry). At the same time, if Mars is also afflicted, i.e. it 
receives bad aspect, he may amass wealth by foul means. 


If lord of lagna forms good aspect with lord of 4 or planet in 4, 
say Jupiter, the matters signified by 4th house and Jupiter will 
flourish. Lord of 1 forming good aspect indicates possession of 
vehicle in the conjoint period of lord of 1 and Jupiter. If lord of 

1 is Mars, possession of building, land etc.; if lord of 1 is Venus, 
he purchase a vehicle; if lord of 1 is Mercury, he owns a 
publication! if lord of 1 is Saturn he may be fortunate to dig a 
treasure or invest on lands. If, instead of the good aspect, there 
is bad aspect, there will be heavy expenses or vehicle, lands 
etc. will be sold away. (4th house denotes lands, buildings, 
vehicles; Mars is bhoomi-karaka, Venus is vahana-karaka,Saturn 
is karaka for things which lie hidden under the ground). 


The aspecting planet bestows the result through the house 
owned. So, lord of 3 in good aspect with Jupiter in 4, indicates 
that the person will shine through the matters signified by third 
house, viz. agent, contract, service in communication 
department, broadcasting etc. 


Mercury and Venus in good aspect and one of them occupying 
or owning any of the houses 2, 7 or 11 will indicate more than 
one attachment, as Venus shows beauty and opposite sex and 
Mercury denotes plurality. 


Sixth house denotes overdraft, 2nd house denotes money and 
Mercury is a dual planet. Therefore, lord of 6 in good aspect with 
Mercury in 2 denotes that the native will arrange overdraft or 
loan and earn commission, because houses 2 and 6 are 
connected with profession. 


240 


Dasa Bhukti & Aspects 


A hypothetical planetary position for investigation will be 
Meena lagna, Moon in lagna at 22 degrees, fifth cusp 
7 degrees Cancer and Jupiter at 22 degrees in the fifth 
house; Mars at 22 degrees is Scorpio. 


A planet may occupy any house. All the same, it gives the 
results of the lord of the constellation. The lord of constellation 
may own only one house or two houses. The planet in the 
constellation gives mainly what is indicated by the lord of the 
constellation, especially in the bhukti of the lord of the 
constellation. During the other bhukits, the distance between 
the dasa lord and the bhukti lord has to be calculated by 
longitude. If the aspect is good, the bhukti lord will co-operate 
with the dasa lord to offer such results that both the dasa lord 
and bhukti lord have to give. They also offer the results 
indicated by the bhukti lord by nature, lordship and occupation 
of a house. To elaborate it, if two planets form favourable 
aspects, both of them will co-operate and offer such results as 
the lord of the dasa and the planet indicate. If the lord of the 
dasa promises agreeable results, planets forming harmonious 
aspects will help the dasa lord to offer desirable results. If 
planets form adverse aspects, they will not co-operate with the 
dasa lord. If the dasa lord has to bestow beneficial results, the 
planet forming evil aspect will prevent the dasa lord from doing 
any good and will offer undesirable results only, during the 
sub-period of the planet forming the evil aspect. 


If the dasa lord is a benefic by occupation of a constellation 
belonging to a planet owning good houses and if such a 
significator is in evil aspect with another benefic, in the sub- 
period of the later, every matter, though apparently 
advantageous, cannot be enjoyed. It will delay, deny and 
disappoint. 


If the dasa lord is a malefic by occupying the constellation of 
an evil planet and the bhukti lord is also a malefic similarly, 


241 


| el 


As per the ad-hoc planetary position, Jupiter is in the 5th house. 
A planet which is 120 degrees away will be in trine, a highly 
harmonious aspect. Another planet, Mars, is in 135 degrees, 
constituting an sesquisquare, an evil aspect, from the 5th cusp. 
Therefore the 5th cusp receives a bad aspect from Mars But 
Jupiter in the 5th house receives a good aspect and Jupiter 
given such results as that planet is to give by lordship (Jupiter 
owns 1 and 10) and not according to its occupation (5th house) 
during the conjoint period and sub-period of Mars and Jupiter. 
During other periods, Jupiter will offer the beneficial results of 
houses 4 and 7 due to the constellational position. 


As lord of 1 and 10, Jupiter is in 8th from the 10th and in 5 and 9 
relation to the lagna. Jupiter is weak for the 10th house matters 
but is favourable for the lagna. When the 5th cusp is afflicted by 
aspect by any planet. It is unfavourable for 5th house matters, 
even though it may form good aspect with the planet in 5. But 
the planet in the 5th house and the aspecting planet can, in their 
conjoint period and sub-periods, give the results indicated by 
the dasa lord, according to its lordship and not according to its 
occupation (the house). If the fifth house is afflicted by aspect 
the matters embraced by the 5th cannot thrive in the period of 
the afflicting planet. But if there is a good aspect, it improves 5th 
house matters (except speculation) in the period of the planets 
forming favourable aspects. 


242 


The planet in the constellation of lord of 10. if harmoniously 
aspected by lord of 2 or 6 or 11, there will be increase in income 
and improvement in status. But if the lord of 2, 11 or 6 should 
form an evil aspect with the planet in the constellation of lord of 
10 there will be reversion. If lord of 8 or lord of 12 forms evil 
aspect with the planet in the constellation of lord of 10, 
promotion can be expected. But should the lord of 8 or 12 form 
favourable aspect with the planet in the constellation of lord of 
10, there will be trouble, difficulty, reversion or even dismissal. 
such are the powers of aspects. 


Therefore, good aspects of planets ruling good houses improve 
the matters. Bad aspects from planets owning evil houses also 
improve matters. But bad aspects from planets owning beneficial 
houses and good aspects from planets owning evil houses will 
be disadvantageous for personal matters of the native. 


The planet or the bhukti lord in 8 or 12 to the dasa lord is to 
throw obstacles, difficulties or bring about changes in the 
existing state of affairs. But if the longitudinal distance between 
them constitutes a good aspect, no unfavourable result will be 
experienced in the planet's sub-period or sub-sub period. 


A Taurus lagna businessman while running the dasa of Venus 
and the bhukti of Jupiter made very high business profits even 
though Jupiter is considered a malefic being lord of 8 and 11 for 
Rishabha lagna. But in Saturn bhukti in the same Venus dasa, 
he lost everything in business and faced defeat in his efforts 
even though Saturn is lord of 9 and 10 and Venus is lord of 6. 
Why? Saturn and Venus were in sesqui-square and Venus and 
Mercury (lord of following bhukti) were in 67-1/2 degrees evil 
aspect separating by 35 minutes. Therefore failure in business 
and deterioration of bank position. Even though the 
aspect is generally considered to be weak and adverse and 
added to that it was separating. Yet it played havoc. 


243 


Houses 1, 2, 3, 6, 10 and 11 are called improving houses. 
The houses which are the improving houses from the 7th house 
are 7, 8, 9, 12, 4 and 5 and they improve the matters of the 
person or the opponent denoted by the 7th house and hence 
they are evil to the native. 


Lords of houses 1, 2, 3, 6, 10 and 11 offer desirable results in 
competition-litigation, election etc. Whenever they form good 
aspects during transit. Lords of houses 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 12 give 
victory to the native whenever they form evil aspects during 
transit. The native will lose whenever the lords of 1, 2, 3, 6,10 
and 11 form evil aspects to the radical position of planets or 
when lords of houses 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 12 form good aspects to 
their position at birth. 


Progression 

The correct method of judging results of progression is to take 
lordship of planets into consideration. Jupiter, though a natural 
benefic, will show withdrawal from bank if it is lord of 12. If it 
forms good aspect with lord of 2, it threatens loss and difficulties 
on account of the wife, because the 7th house indicates the wife 
and the 12th house is the sixth reckoned from the 7th. Sixth 
house indicates sickness. 


The extent to which the native can benefit or lose depends on 
the strength of the planets in the radix. If the radical chart does 
not promise fortune, any number of strong good progressed 
aspects cannot secure lasting benefit. In the same manner, if 
the birth chart promises long lite, adverse aspects by 
progression cannot bring fatality. 


Aspects formed by progression in a particular week will be 
excited to give the result indicated when the same planets form 
similar aspects by transit. If Sun by progression forms a good 
aspect with Jupiter owning good houses denoting increase in 
income, find out from the ephemeris for the year concerned the 


244 


date on which Sun and Jupiter by transit form a good aspect. 
That will be the date on which the progressed aspect will 
operate to give the expected result. At that time, the progressed 
aspect should be in operation. 


The planet which is progressing (the aspecting planet) shows 
the source through which the result is enjoyed and the planet 
which is aspected indicates the nature of the result. Assume that 
Sun, lord of 3, is progressing to an evil aspect with the radical 
position of Moon, lord of 2. Sun is the aspecting planet. Its 
lordship of 3rd house shows brother. The planet which is 
aspected is lord of 2. The second house shows family or 
finance. The quality of the aspect decides whether the result will 
be favourable or unfavourable. So, the native gets separated 
from family or incurs expenses on account of brother. If Sun, 
lord of 3, progresses by good aspect to lord of 2, the native 
gains money through brother, as the 2nd house signifies loss to 
3rd house signifying brother. 


To Mithuna lagna natives. Mars is lord of 6 and 11. Lord of 11 
progressing by good aspect to lord of 2 promises income 
through elder brother or friends. The nature of the result is 
indicated by lord of 2, which denotes finance. Second house is 
12th to the 3rd. The aspecting planet, lord of 11, shows elder 
brother of friend and the aspect being favourable, shows profit or 
gain. As Mars is also lord of 6 and as the 6th house denotes 
uncle, uncle may also help. The house from which the 
progressed aspect is formed is of importance. If Mars forms the 
aspect from Libra where the 5th cusp falls, 5th house is loss to 
the sixth house, which denotes maternal uncle. Therefore, the 
uncle will help. But if the progressed aspect is formed from the 
10th house, as 10 stands as the 12th to 11th (elder brother or 
friend) renders assistance to the native and his financial position 
deteriorates. 


If the same Mars progressing in Pisces forms a bad aspect to 
lord of 2, as the aspect is unfavourable, the native will incur 


245 


expenses through elder brother or friend. In both the cases, the 
result of the progression will materialise only when Mars by 
transit forms an aspect of a similar nature with lord of 2. 


To persons born in Libra as lagna, Mars is lord of 2 and 7 and 
Sun is lord of 11. When lord of 11 progresses by good aspect to 
Mars, when the aspect is applying and till it becomes partile, the 
native will have pleasurable pursuit. When the same Sun 
progressing in Sagittarius forms a sextile with radical Mars (to 
form a sextile Mars, lord of 7, should be in the 5th house), there 
will be pleasure till the sextile becomes exact. When the Sun 
progresses still further separating from the exact aspect, 
frequency of contact with the fair sex will become less and less 
and the native will not find her as interesting as she was when 
the progressed aspect was applying. 


A planet separating from a malefic and applying to a benefic 
gives health, happiness and expansion after a struggle due to 
the bad aspect, for example semi-square. If the lord of 10 and 
due to the evil portents by this progression one is suspended 
from service, one will be reinstated when the planet further 
progresses and forms a good aspect, say the sextile. 


When the planet by progression applies by a semi-square, 
aspect of discord, he is very much afraid and put to trouble. 
When the aspect begins to separate after culmination, he gains 
strength gradually and when the same planet applies by 
progression by the good aspect, sextile, it encourages him with 
goods news and at the time the sextile becomes exact and 
transit is also similarly favourable (it maybe by any good aspect 
and not necessarily by the same sextile) he will rejoin duty. 


But if a planet separating from a progressed good aspect 
applies by an evil aspect, misfortune will overtake the native. If 
by progression a series of good aspects are formed, luck will 
follow one after another and beneficial results will be enjoyed for 
a long period. On the other hand, a series of bad aspects in 


246 


progression in a row will bring in a train of misfortunes one after 
the other. 


If by progression, a planet separating from one malefic applies 
to another malefic the evil is enhanced and the experience will 
be the bitterest. 


Transit 

Transit should be read in conformity with the radix (birth map), 
An evil aspect to the radical position of a planet which denotes 
an evil result will no doubt be beneficial but a good aspect to 
such a position will only accentuate the harmful results indicated 
at birth. The transit results, whether good or bad, which are in 
accord with the natal indications will be more prominent. Transit 
results which are contrary to natal indication will be feebly felt. 


Two planets by their inter-relation at birth, promise, say, certain 
favourable results. When these planets form good aspects by 
transit or one of them is in conjunction with the other or one of 
them is in conjunction with the other or transits that part of the 
zodiac conjointly ruled by them, the favourable results promised 
in the birth horoscope are brought out. During the period of bad 
aspects by transit, there will be no positive harm unless such 
aspects are in conformity with the nativity. The transits that 
coincide with the inter-relation between the planets concerned at 
birth will be very effective. 


Transits over the radical places of planets or cusps are more 
effective than aspects to them. Next in importance are the major 
aspects. The minor aspects of slow moving planets will be 
perceptible while those of fast-moving planets will be 
imperceptible. A transiting planet activates the matters of the 
houses under his domain or houses transited through the source 
of the houses it rules. 


To persons born in different lagnas, lordship of planets will vary 
and each bhava signifies certain matters. If lord of 4 is 


247 


afflicted by the transiting planet, as 4th house denotes mother, 
mother will suffer. If, however, lord of 4 is Moon, as Moon is 
karaka for the mind, the native will also be mentally disturbed. If 
lord of 5th which denotes children is afflicted, the native's 
children will suffer but not the native. 


Let us suppose for an Aries Lagna-born, Sun, Lord of 5, is in 2 
in Taurus. When Sun transits in Aquarius, Sun will be in the 
11th house. From 11th house Sun will be in sextile to Lagna and 
so the native will meet with success. But at the same time, Sun 
will be in square to the natal position of Sun. As the aspect is 
bad and as lord of 5th is afflicted, his children will suffer. 


To a Virgoan, Sun is lord of 12, denoting loss, separation, 
hospitalisation or life in a foreign place, or some changes. To a 
Libran, Sun is lord of 11, promising peace, pleasure, profit 
permanent tie of friendship, reunion with partner, etc. If a 
transiting planet is in good aspect with the Sun, as the 11th 
house denotes elder brother, the elder brother of the Libra-born 
native will enjoy good health and success because the 11th 
house is his lagna. At the same time the matters signified by the 
11th house will also flourish as the aspect is good. In the case of 
the Virgo-born native, as Sun is lord of 12 and the aspect is 
good, it is not conducive for favourable results. Therefore, the 
good aspect will show loss, separation etc because the lord of 
5th receiving a beneficial aspect is not favourable for financial 
matters. 


The general rule that good aspect of a planet to the lord or 
any house improves the matters indicated by the aspected 
planet or that evil aspect portends evil to those matters will not 
be applicable in some cases. For instance, if lord of 8 receives 
favourable aspect, as 8th house is the 2nd to the 7th, the good 
aspect to lord of 8 with improve the financial position of the 
opponent and the native will lose. If lord of a during transit forms 
a good aspect to its radical position, or if any other planet forms 
a beneficial aspect with lord of 8, it would show gains to 
opponent and loss to the native. If the native competes with 
another, the good aspect to lagna alone will give him success 
and the good aspect to the 7th house will pave the way for 
opponent's success. 


If a planet receives good aspect and at the same time, the same 
planet is in evil aspect with another, both the results will be 
experienced. To Aries lagna native. Sun, lord of 5, and Saturn, 
lord of 11 in good aspect will give gain through speculation (11th 
house gain and 5th house speculation, such as races, shares 
etc.,). At the same time, if Venus, lord of 2 and 7, is in evil aspect 
with Saturn, that would denote sickness of wife and worries at 
home. While he is happy on account of success at races, he is 
worried due to the illness of his wife at home. The good aspect of 
any planet, even of Saturn, will give only agreeable result. The 
only difference is that as Saturn is restrictive by nature, progress 
will be slow but steady and enduring. The evil aspects of Saturn 
will give poor judgment. If the tries for a transfer in job or to start 
some business, there will be impediments galore. 


This may not be a very brilliant exposition, but in this small 
compass, as far as my knowledge goes and as far as it is 
practicable, the most important points governing aspects in the 
western system of astrology and how they are made use of in 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati have been briefly explained. If they are 
understood well and applied intelligently. | am sure, satisfactory 
results will come. 


249 


CUSPAL SUB-LORD SPEAKS 

Now, let us discuss a natal chart it terms of progeny for 
the benefit of the readers of this esteemed magazine K.P. & 
Astrology. 

Mr. V., a male born on 18-10-1946. Friday 

11-55 a.m. at Delhi 28-38' / 77-12' Ayanamsa 23-06 (KSK) 

Balance in Saturn dasa at the time of birth 9 years 2 months 
and 9 days. 


IT 19-5," 


=I *0-5," Vv *5-5," Rah 21-()" VII 13-(," 


it AZZY 
Se y(-)#" 
Sat 14-,." 
VIII 18-5, 


Nirayana bhava 


TINV\NX 


II ) 0-5," IX 25-54! 


2RA*W)" XI *5-5," , 
ar XII) 1-5," pacman X 28-5," 
paeFs Mere. 21-52" ae 
Ven. 7-3," >up ))-,," 
Sun 1*10- 
Planet Star lord Sub lord 
Sun Mars Mercury 
Moon Saturn Venus 
Mars Juipter Saturn 


250 Mercury Jupiter Saturn 


Jupiter Rahu Saturn 


Venus Saturn Kethu 
Saturn Saturn Rahu 
Rahu Moon Venus 
Kethu Mercury Venus 

Cusp Sub lord 

2 Mercury 

5 Kethu 

11 Kethu 


(Rahu represents aspected by Mars) (Ask K. S.) 


This chart was consulted in terms of child birth 
(pregnancy) during 1988. 


On the general look out at the chart the 5th cusp falls in Aries. 
Mars as sign lord Venus as star lord and Kethu as sub lord. 


According to our K.P. System, the sub lord of the 5th cusp should 
signify houses 2 or 5 or 11th for the prospects of child birth. That 
is the K.P. rule in common we are adopting all these years. 


In this chart, the 5th cusp sub lord is Kethu an abortive planet in 
Nature. Kethu in a barren sign by occupation in the sign of Mars 
in 12th bhava. 


Kethu is in the star of Mercury lord of 10th bhava in 10th itself (12 
to 11th) the lord of 5th house Mars is a full significator of 
1,4,10,12, Kethu in the sign of Mars also gets with signification of 
1.4. 10. 12. 


Hence, the 5th cusp sub lord Kethu, is not indicated in the child 
birth fully in the chart. 


But on 10-8-1990, Friday Saturn star day, the native was blessed 
with a female child i.e., during Venus dasa Jupiter bukthi and 
Saturn anthra period. 


251 


How? the answer is given by the cuspal sub lord. According 
to cuspal sub lord and secrets of cuspal sub lord theory even 
though the 5th cusp sub lord negates the 5th house matters, he 
qualifies himself as a full significator of that cuspal results in 
the absence of planets in his stars. 


In this chart, the 5th cusp sub lord is Kethu. The 11th cusp (5 to 
7th) sub lord is also Kethu. No planets in Kethu stars i.e. Aswini, 
Makam, Moolam. Hence, the 5th cusp sublord promises the 5th 
house results. This is the secrets of cuspal sub lord. So we have 
to take the cuspal sub lord also as full significator of that bhava 
results while giving the predictions in the absence of 
planets in his stars 


So the efficacy of the cuspal sub lords are once again tested 
and proved 100% good results. Hence, readers & KP students 
and scholars are requested to give much importance to this 
cuspal sub lord for future prediction and the results may be 
intimated to me for further research if any. 


With Great respects to our beloved Guruji Sri. K.S.K.I. conclude 
this article. 


GOOD LUCK 


TIMINGS OF EVENTS BY RULING 


A trivial event expected to happen on the same day may 
be accurately timed by moving the Lagna to a point in the 
arc to be jointly operated by the RPs at the time of its 
materialisation. The querent must have an urge to find the 
answer to his query apart from a direct concern with its 
subject matter, and not merely a passing curiosity therewith. 
The following procedure and "rules" are generally relied upon 
for the purpose. 


1. Calculate the 5 RPs at TOJ (TIME OF JUDGEMENT) the 
strongest being the Lagna star Lord, successively followed by 
the Lagna Sign Lord, the Moon Star Lord, the Moon Sign 
Lord, & the Day Lord in order of strength or warrant of 
precedence (WOP). 


2. Add the Node to the above list when ever it occupies the 
sign of an RP, and, as the latter's representative, treat it so 
strong as to even replace it completely to get the desired 
result. 


3. Eliminate such RPs ("tempters") as are deposited in a 
retrograde star or sub, preferably the latter. 


4. Finally, pick up the remaining RPs on a "first-come first 
served-basis" in the Vimshottari Cyclic Order (VCO), but avoid 
their repetition as co-rulers of the arc to be jointly operated 
by the RPs. 


SOME RECURRING PROBLEMS 


The "Copy-book" method as above is easy to understand, but 
difficult to adhere to in practice. The reason is that the scope of 
RPs has been found to widen as a result of research to include 
various other categories of planets in addition to the five (above- 
mentioned). At any rate, the situation is vastly different today 
since they were said to be merely four, namely, "the lords of 


253 


lagna, star, rasi and day" (Prof K.S. KRISHNAMURTI; 
ASTROLOGY & ATHRISHTA, September 1967, p. 12; "No more 
doubts"). In practice it is found that we should add some other 
planets to the commonly known five categories i.e. include the 
sub lords of the Lagna & Moon, and even planets in aspect of 
conjunction with other RPs. And this list is not exhaustive! No 
wonder then that the first hurdle to be crossed while timing with 
the Lagna is at the very beginning of the exercise, i.e., while 
tabulating and selecting the RPsM! 


There are some other equally vexing problems. A mention may 
be made of at least three of them, event at this preliminary 
stage, as they would be found of frequent interference. The first 
of these is whether or not a Node be ordinarily treated to be 
strong enough to replace the represented Planet completely. 
The second pertains to the degree or extent of allowance to be 
made for adjusting the delay caused, say. by SATURN (the 
"delaying planet"), where relevant, that is, whether a sub-sub or 
sub or star or sign (or, for that matter, more than one sign) has 
to be omitted as an "adjustment allowance" for the anticipated 
delay while timing an event. The third is "retrogression", and 
whether it should not Prima faciebe totally ignored in any form. 
( should not be ignored at first view). 


It would be utterly futile to attempt timing an event unless these 
and similar knotty issues are satisfactorily solved in advance in 
each case. 


GENERAL GUIDE-LINES( Horary) 

The following guide-lines are being attempted as a result of 
analysing over 100 cases, mostly pertaining to the question of 
"restoration of disrupted supply of residential electricity’. 
Difficulties, however, remain the same irrespective of the kind of 
nature of the problem of event examined. If nevertheless the 
study was confined predominately to "electricity", alone that was 
for no other reason than the ease with which the frequent break- 
down of the local power supply afforded an ideal opportunity for 
collecting a proper and randomised sample (over 100 cases)- 


254 


both pre-requistes for a scientific study, within a relatively short 
period of some 4 years, and that too without having to move out 
of the residence in quest of the desired date! The experiments 
were mostly undertaken at Lucknow, but a few observations 
were recorded elsewhere in the country as well, and trivial 
issues other than "electricity" also taken up, such as "arrival of 


trains/ persons", "receipt of communications" etc. 


Guide-Lines can be of a general nature only. Exception of 
course would be there, but they have to be a few only, and 
importantly, capable, of being reasonably explained in similar 
situations equally well. This may be kept in mind while making a 
note of the following general guide-lines. 


1. In addition to the 5 RPs mentioned at the very outset, it would 
be desirable to invariably include the sub lords of Lagna & Moon 
as well in the list, most of the time one or the other sub lord 
would already be occurring as one of the RPs among the said 
five. 


2. The possibility of such other planets also giving the desired 
result as are in conjunction/aspect with an RP should be kept in 
view, particularly when so associated with more than one RP. 


3. A Node may be included as an RP not only when occupying 
the sign of an RP, but also when in conjunction/aspect therewith. 
In such a situation the Node can obviously represent only such of 
the planets as have already appeared as RPs, and not others, 
even though it might be in conjunction/aspect with these others. 


4. When directly occurring as an RP, a Node may represent a 
planet whose sign it occupies, and/or it is in conjunction/aspect 
with, even though they may not have appeared as RPs. 


5. It may be rewarding to consistently follow the Hindu system of 
aspects. In any case, no distinction need be made between 
"applying" and "separating" aspects as otherwise done in the 
west. 


6. No RP need to necessarily be rejected merely on the 
gound that it is "represented" by a Node, and the possibility of 
both of them alongside giving the desired result be kept in view. 


7. Any order of strength or WOP among the RPs, and every 
form of retrogression, may prima facie be ignored. 


8. There need not be any haste in eliminating the "excessive" or 
"unwanted" RPs (or tempters) before commencing the timing of 
the event. Frequently, several of them may get automatically 
eliminated simply because they just have no chance at all to 
figure in the analysis. One great advantage of taking this 
precaution is that one would frequently be spared the 
embarrassment when it is eventually discovered, at the end of 
the exercise, that it was indeed some of the eliminated planets 
who actually gave the final result rather than the ones retained, 
or in addition thereto! 


9. As usual, the RPs have to be picked up on a "first-come- first 
served-basis" while timing the event. However, avoid repetition 
of an Rp as a minor joint ruler of the arc being worked out. This 
seems to be fairly dependable device in practice. There, 
however, is no technical bar to a planet repeating itself as a co- 
ruler of the joint arc - not an unusual observation particularly at 
the sub-sub level. 


10. There can be no hard and fast rule to estimate the 
precise extent of the anticipated delay caused by Saturn, and 
very much would depend on the circumstances of each case. 
Often enough the astrologer may have to rely upon his 
discretion for the purpose. This discretion however, has to be 
"well-informed", and not merely governed by one's sweet will. 
Further, it may be possible to simplify the problem, and 
confine the enquiry to a limited period, when it could be 
reasonaly visualised that the desired event has a good 
probability of materialising within a specific duration or in its 
"Sub-period of Expectation" (SPE)-further commended upon 
subsequently. 


256 


11. It is not necessary to choose a horary number, the 
method under discussion (timing the event with the help of RPs 
and Lagna) itself being a "quickie", dispensing with the need to 
cast a horary chart for analysis. Where, however, one is chosen, 
say, for the purpose of a detailed postmortem of all experiment 
with the help of the concerned horary chart, the horary sub lord 
need not influence the selection of the RPs - it may not at all be 
finally relevant as one of the planets giving the actual result. 


12. It needs no over emphasis that KP Ayanamsa alone need be 
employed in all calculations. If the Ayanamsa adopted is different 
wrong conclusion would emerge. 


13. It is often rewarding to work out more than one soulution of 
the problem, particularly when the situation is confounded by the 
occurrence of Saturn or a Node as one of the RPs. 


AIDS TO CALCULATIONS 
The calculations have not only to be accurate; they must be 
completed quickly too. It may not take more than 7/8 minutes to 
achieve these objectives if the following aids are relied upon: 


1. The watch must be kept synchronised to the BBC or 
AIR time-signal, correct to the second, and all timings recorded 
as correctly as possible nearest to the second. 

2. All calculations be done on a sexagesimal-decimal 
calculator (popularly called the "scienctific calculator"), which 
automatically converts units of distance & time to equivalent 
decimal values, and vice versa. 

3. All Ascendants (Sayana) for the location at which the 
experiments are mostly or generally conducted be worked out, 
say, at an interval of 4 minutes ST (standard time), and kept 
handy in the form of a ready reckoner. 

4. A formula exclusively meeting the requirements of a 
sexagesimal-decimal calculator be used for quickly converting 
any ST to its IST equivalent (or vice versa) - described 
subsequently. 


257 


SUB-PERIOD OF EXPECTATION (SPE) 


An event may be timed by moving the Lagna because its "Period 
of Expectation" (PE) is the "same day" - you would move MOON 
if the PE were "days" but within a month, or SUN if more than 
this but within a "year" Such an expectation is based on pure 
common sense, or common knowledge, or known trend (or 
pattern or behaviour) of the event under scrutiny. Thus, the 
Shatabdi Express from Lucknow is scheduled to arrive at New 
Delhi at 21-50 hrs. and is ordinarily "on time", which may be said 
to be its known "trend" or "pattern" or "behaviour" of reaching 
there. The event is being judged say, at 06-50 hr. which is 15 
hours in advance. There would of course be numerous arcs duly 
operated jointly by the relevant RPs. during this long interval, 
indicating the particular moments when the event may be 
theoretically expected to materialise. However, it would be quite 
wrong to look for the appropriate time of the event much before 
the scheduled time of the train's arrival. The sensible and 
practical thing to do would be to expect the event near about 
21-50 hrs. with perhaps as safe margin of some 5 minutes (plus/ 
minus) to provide for any chance deviation from the re- 
scheduled time. This particular duration of 10 mts 21-45 hrs 
-21.55 hrs would thus be the SPE of the event. 


in several cases it may not be possible to have any ideal of the 
SPE of the event under examination. For instance, the Doon 
Express from Howrah is notorious for arriving late at Dehradun 
with a delay ranging from 1 to 18 hours. It would obviously be 
futile to even think of applying the concept of SPE in this case. 
On the other hand, there are events, which, though not so 
formally scheduled to occur as in the case of the running of the 
trains, may nevertheless exhibit some sort of "pattern" or "trend' 
in their materialisation on the basis whereof it may be possible to 
form an idea of their SPE. For instance, resumption of electricity 
in a particular locality may be known to ordinarily take place 
within 30-40 minutes from the moment of disruption. This, 


258 


then, would be the SPE of this event. The foregoing concept of "SPE" 
could be usefully employed in most of the cases: delivery of news- 
paper, return of children from school, return of the spouse from office, 
etc. - all common place events. This done, the investigation becomes 
limited to a specified duration - Saturn or no Saturn. And most of the 
time this may not be without its rewards! 


1.S.T. FORMULA 


It is elementary to develop a formula for any location in India 
(East or West of the Indian Meridian, 82deg./30'E) for converting any 
given ST, with the help of a sexagesimal-decimal calculator, 
to its IST equivalent. Given below is this Formula as applicable to all 
locations West of the Meridian (for all locations East of the 
Meridian K (2) would have to be substracted and not added) 

IST = ST(G)-ST(M)-K(1)+K(2)+(5h:30m) 

5 


WHERE, 
IST is the Indian Standard Time. 


ST(G) is the "given" ST (required to be converted to its IST 
equivalent). Add 24 hours where it is less than ST(M) 


ST(M) is the ST at 5-30 AM LMT at the Meridian (as given, 
say, in Ephemeris) nearest earlierto ST(G). 


K(1) is a Constant for a particular location, being the 
correction for longitudinal difference from the Meridian calculated 
at 2/3 second per degree of such difference. 


K(2) is the second Constant for the same location, being 
the measure of time to be constantly added or substracted, 
respectively for the location East or West of the Meridian, to 
anygiven IST for obtaining the corresponding LMT. 


D, the denominator, stand for a Constant value of 1.0027 
applicable to all location equally. For a higher degree of precision 


259 


it may be modified to 1.0027083, 1.0027199, 1.0027315, or 
1.0027431 according as the ST acceleration on the day in 
question is 234, 235,236 or 237 seconds - see also Ephemeris, 
1991 pp "j" to "1". 


The formula given above gets further simplified for being 
permanently used for a particular location. For instance, for 
Lucknow where most of the experiments were undertaken if gets 
simplified as follows by substituting the values for K(1)& K (2) 
which respectively are 01 second, an 06 minutes & 16 seconds, 
the coordinates for Lucknow being 80 deg.56' E; & 26/51'N 


IST=ST(G)-ST(M)-(01 S)+(5h:36m:16s) 
1°0027 

The result can be obtained in a few seconds only by merely 
pressing the appropriate key on the sexagesimal caculator (for 
hour, minutes, second, or a mere value) since all the values are 
already known, except for ST(M). Note also that there is no 
need to calculate LMT separately, which even otherwise does not 
at all figure in the above or the unsubstituted version of the 
formula. 


ILLUSTRATION 


Electricity supply to my residence had remained disrupted 
for a couple of minutes. "When could | except its resumption?" 


Horary Number: 60 (Mercury-Jupiter- Venus) 
Date : 16-05-1994. 
TOJ > (10h:30 m:55s) 


IST; Watch set to BBC time-signal; time recorded correct to 
the nearest 5 seconds. 


Place Lucknow - 80°/56'E; 
26°/51'N (Geographic) 
26°/42 N (Geocentric). 


260 


Ayanamsa 23 deg.41'(KP) 
Tables K.P. TOH & Ephemeris. 


RULING PLANETS 
Day Monday 
Moon 3=3*-10' 
Lagna 3=13 deg.32' 


Day Moon Lagna 


Day Lord Moon 

Sign Lord Moon Moon 
Star Lord Jup(R) Sat 
Sub Lord Rahu Rahu 


SATURN may be represented by Rahu by aspect. RAHU 
may also represent MARS by sign, and SUN/MERCURY by 
aspect, even though none of them appears as an RP, since the 
Node occurs directly as an RP. (Horary chart apended at the 
end of easy reference.) 


ALL the planets except VENUS & KETU thus are RPs. Take 
them as they are, and no attempt need to made at this stage to 
eliminate the "unwanted" RPs merely because they happen to 
be in a retrograde star/sub, or else are represented by the 
relatively "stronger" Node, etc. 


ANALYSIS 


Resumption of Electricity in this locality normally takes place in 
30 to 40 minutes (SPE). The event may, therefore, be expected by 
about 11AM. The Lagna is in MOON sign (Cancer), SATURN Star & 
RAHU sub. The rate of its movement in Cancer at Lucknow (the place 
of judgement) is about 13" per minute. The Lagna therefore would still 
be in Cancer when the event 


261 


materialises. In other words, MOON would be the sign lord of 
the joint arc being worked out. 


It takes about 7/8 minutes to complete the calculation (cf: 
"general guide-lines" Supra). Analysis of the event similarly 
takes 7/8/ minutes - about 15 minutes in all for the entire 
exercise which would be the period already gone by the time the 
experiment is concluded. The lagna by then would have reached 
the next star (MERCURY). As this is the last star in Cancer, and 
also ruled by an RP, the event may be expected therein. The 
star lord of the said arc thus would be MERCURY. 


The first sub in MERCURY star be ignored on the ground that its 
ruler has already been accounted for as a joint ruler (Star Lord) 
of the arc being worked out. Omit the next two, KETU & VENUS, 
as they are not RPs. The succeeding two subs (SUN & MOON) 
too be disregarded: SUN sub may be skipped to provide for the 
delay to be caused by SATURN; MOON sub may be omitted as 
the ruler has already been accounted for as a joint ruler (sign 
lord) of the arc in question. The next earliest sub ruled by an RP 
now is MARS, who may be relied upon to give the desired result 
as the sub lord of the arc. 


Alternatively, the event may be expected even earlier, in SUN 
sub, provided the appreciation is that sufficient delay would have 
been already caused by the time this sub is reached, and that, 
for this reason, no further "adjustment allowance" need be made 
for the same. In that case we have two solution as follows:- 


| - MOON Sign (Cancer) MERCURY Star - SUN Sub 

Il - MOON Sign (Cancer) - MERCURY Star- MARS sub 
F O&]_O 

As before, picking up on RP on a "first come- first served - 
basis", and avoiding repetition of those already accounted for as 


co-rulers of the arc, the sub-sub in Case | obviously would be 
the one ruled by MARS, and in case II it would be RAHU. 


262 


Timing 

It would be a matter purely of an academic nature to 
calculate the arc, etc., in Case 1, as we already know that the 
event materialised as per the solution given in Case Il. Further 
calculations, therefore, would be confined to the later only, 
namely, MOON Sign-MERCURY Star-MARS Sub-RAHU Sub, 
113deg./22'/43"to 113deg./29'/43"(Nirayana). 


Nirayana Arc 113*-22-43’ to 113°-29'43* 
Sayana Arc 137°-03-43’ to 137°-10'43’ 
Sidereal time 02-45:29° 10S-2.46.01°22S5 
I.S.T. 11.16 53°10S-11,17-25°13S 


Rounded off to the nearest minute, the event should be expected 
at 11-17 AM (IST). The actual time, recorded correct to the nearest 5 
seconds, at which the event materialised, was 11 h:17m:05s, the 
watch, as mentioned at the very outset, having been set to the BBC 
time-signal. This, when rounded-off, comes to 11-17 AM (IST) again. 


SUMMARY & CONCLUSION 


1. Timing with the RPs is a tricky affair. The scope of the RPs 
is too wide to be confined only to the 5 conventional categories. 
Besides, there is not a singly, "copy-book rule" that does not get 
frequently flouted in actual practice while timing an event. 


2. Some knotty problems interfering with analysis prominently 
include: the uncertain potential of the Nodes to replace the 
represented planet(s); the question of precisely evaluating the 
extent of anticipated delay to be caused by Saturn; and the 
likelihood (or unlikelihood) of "retrogression" (in any form) 
constituting a bar to the fructification of the event. 


3. A set of "General Guide-lines" has been recommended for 
dealing with the above problems (on the basis of some 100 


experiments). The use of a sexagesimal-decimal calculator, and 
of a simple mathematical "IST Formula" Specially suited to the 
requirements of the said calculator, have been recommended as 
aids to quick and precise calculations. Besides, the concept of 
"Sub-period of Expectation"(SPE) has been introduced for 
limiting the enquiry within a specified period, where possible. 


4. The instant case-study typically illustrates the application or 
the practical utility of the said "general guide- lines" in analysing 
and timing the event. In particular, the result, accurate to the 
minute’, could be achieved only because- 


a) the RPs were not eliminated even where represented by 
their respective Nodes; 

b) Rahu, the Node, and the represented planets (MERCURY/ 
MARS) were allowed to function side by side as co-rulers of the 
arc; 

c) deposition of RPs (MOON/RAHU) in a retrograde star was 
taken to be no bar to the fructification of the desired event: 

d) assistance of the "SPE" of the event was taken to form an 
idea of the extent of anticipated delay to be caused by SATURN, 
and thus limit the enquiry to a specified duration; & 


e)The result was not allowed to be prejudiced by the horary 
sublord. 


Planet Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Sun Jupiter(R) 
Moon Jupiter(R) Rahu 
Mars Kethu Kethu 
Mercury Moon Mercury 
Jupiter(R) Rahu Mercury 
Venus Mars Mercury 
Saturn Rahu Sun 
Rahu Jupiter(R) Moon 
Kethu ' Sun Rahu 


264 


Kethu 07-15" 


Mars 0-+(" 
Sun 1-*." 
a 1 
yi-*, = Merc ) 0-+(' 
*)-5) XII 25-,*" 


Sat )/ -+," 


No.60 
16-05-1994 


1Zn : 30m : 555&WFG 
Lucknow 


V 
25-42! *)-5)" 


Rahu 071XxX' Jup (R) 14-09" 


GOOD LUCK 


VEN 0730' 


26-33-20" 


Moon 3710’ 


U 
) 1-54" 


265 


FORTUNE IN NEW BUSINESS 


A gentleman who was doing business on a small scale called on 
me to know his fortune in the new business, for commencing which he 
was making efforts. It was May 24,1979 and the time was 11-30 a.m. 
The chart for 49, the number given by the consultant, is as under. 


XI 7°-51' Mer. 2-06 
X 4°51' Mars 12-34 Sun 9-02 
Ven 14-04 XII 10° 51 1110-26-40 
Moon 17-10 
For. 18-34 
Kethu 20-11 
IX 3° S51' IL 5° 51' 
Jup 10-31 
III 3-51' 
VIII 5° 51' Sat 13-47 
Rahu 
20-11 
VI Nep. (R) 
10°26-40 26-07 Ura.(R) 24-57 IV 4°51 
VI 10-51' en 


Balance of Venus dasa years 14-3-0 


Venus dasa Moon bhukthi operates upto 24-8-78. 


Planets 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
266 Jupiter 


Stellar Position of Planets: 


Star 


Sun 
Venus 
Kethu 
Sun 
Saturn 


Sub 


Venus 
Moon 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Sun 


Venus Venus Venus 


Saturn Venus Venus 
Rahu Venus Jupiter 
Kethu Jupiter Jupiter 
Fortuna Moon Mercury 


Lord of Lagna is in 12th sign; but it is in 11th house in the 
star of Sun. Sun is lord of 3 in 11. Mercury shows that the efforts 
of the querent will be crowned with success. 


Jupiter, lord of 10 in 2 in the star of Saturn, lord of 8 and 9 in the 
sub of Sun, lord of 3 in 11 enables him to negotiate successfully. 


As Moon lord of 2, is in 11 in the star of Venus, Lord of 12 in 11, 
in her own sub, Moon denotes that he will invest and that it 
will be profitable. 


Whether new or old, business, houses 2,6 and 10 are to be 
judged. For fortune in business, 11th house has to be included. 
Even though the significators of 2,6 and 10 may operate in dasa 
and bhukthi, unless thy have connection with Mars, anything 
cannot be commenced, as it gives the boldness to take the risk. 


Jupiter, lord of 10, in the 2nd house. Kethu, in the star, 
Poorvabhadra and in the sub of Jupiter is very good. Lord of 2 is 
Moon in the 11th house. No planet is posited in any of her three 
stars, Rohini, Hastha and Sravanam. Moon in her own sub is an 
excellent significator. 


Lord of 6 is Mars in the 11 th house. No planet in any of his stars 
Mrigasira, Chitra or Dhanishta. Mars in the sub of Mercury in 11 is 
Excellent. 


Apart from Moon and Mars, Venus is also in 11 and she is not 
lord of 2,6 or 10 and we have no use for her at the moment. 


According to this horary figure, 14 years and 3 months of Venus 
dasa are yet to run. Mars as lord of 6 will give the boldness 


267 


to undertake a new venture in his bhukthi in his own anthra, as 
Mars is in a movable sign. Venus is conjoined with Mars. So, in 
Venus dasa Mars bhukthi Mars anthra, when Sun transits in the 
starofdasantha, Poorva-phal-guni, in the sub of bhukthinatha, 
Mars around 4th September, 1979, he will run the business. 


What are the prospects in Venus dasa according to the bhukthis, 
which are to run? Venus is lord of 5 and 12 in 11 in her own star 
and sub. Fifth house denotes speculation and 12th house 
denotes investment and change. Venus shows that gains 
will accrue through investment in speculative business, in the 
subperiods of the beneficial significators of 2,6,10 and 11. 


Mars bhukthi from 24-8-79 to 24-10-80. Mars is lord of 6 and 11 
in 11 in the sub of Mercury in 11. As Mars is in a movable sign 
and in the star of Kethu in 9, which is 12 to 10 and the sub is 
beneficial, Mars gives a change for the better. As a strong 
significator of 6 and 11, he starts a new business. Mars being 
significator of 6 and 11 will ensure good runover. 


Rahu bhukthi runs from 24-10-80 to 24-10-83. Rahu is in the 3rd 
house in his star of Venus in 11 and sub of Jupiter in 2. This 
combination of 2 and 11 is very fortunate. But as Jupiter is 
in 12 to the sign occupied by Rahu, Rahu bhukthi will have some 
set-back also. Therefore, it can do, the minimum good and the 
business will not be as good as it was in Mars bhukthi. As Venus 
is hastening to trine Rahu, nothing serious will overtake. 


Guru bhukthi commence from 24-10-83 and runs upto 24.6.86. 
Guru is lord of 7 and 10 in 2. in the star of Saturn in 3 and sub of 
Sun, in 11. Since the 3rd house is also favourable ecumenical 
matters, the sub of 11 will greatly assist. As Jupiter is a planet of 
expansion, being lord of 10 in 2 in the sub of Sun in 11 should 
give increased out-burn. As he is a significator of the 3rd 
house, he will augment his income by taking up some agency or 
as 3rd house denotes shops, he may open a few branches. 
This-sub period augurs well. As Sun denotes 


268 


Government and Jupiter is lord of 10, in the star of Saturn, lord 
of 8 in 3, in the sub of Sun in 11, his dealings with Government, 
though at first seemingly difficult, will ultimately be successful. 
The officials will be favourably inclined, as sun is lord of 3, 
sahaya sthana, in 11. Licences, quotas, permits can be 
obtained. 


Saturn bhukthi is from 24-6-86 to 24-8-89. Saturn is lord of 8 in 3 
in the star and Sub of Venus in 11. Saturn is a very good and 
reliable money spinner. As lord of 8, he is to throw obstacles but 
as occupant of 3, somebody will help the querent. Third house 
denotes neighbours of agents, especially old people. As lord of 8 
is connected to 11th house, there will be no trouble whatever. 
Gains will be gradual and steady, but the querent will be 
dissatisfied because of lordship of 8th house. 


Mercury bhukthi, which starts from 24-8-89, lasts till 24-6-92. 
Mercury is lord of 1 and 4 in 11, in the star of Sun, lord of 3 in 11 
and sub of Jupiter in 2. In this period he will receive encouraging 
reports of very good turnover. His branches will be very co- 
operative. The sub-lord Jupiter shows that it is all earned by fair 
means. Money multiplies like anything. Mercury by himself 
denotes agreements and 3rd house denotes negotiations and 
11th house shows advantage. In this period he wil be able to 
negotiate and conclude agreements to his advantage. He will 
have peace of mind. 


Kethu bhukthi runs from 24-6-92 to 24-8-93. Kethu is in the 
constellation and sub of Jupiter lord of 10 in 2. This is a very 
auspicious period and he will make a good deal of money. But at 
the same time he will be inclined to be more religious, go on a 
pilgrimage of visit holy places, or at least meet a holy person. 


MARRIAGES ARE MADE IN HEAVEN ??? 


Smt. Geetha was married in June 1978. Saturn Dasa was 
till 13-12-1978. 


It was during the fag end of the Dasa and Jupiter bukti. 
Saturn the Dasanatha is in the constellation and sub of Mercury. 


Jupiter the Buktinatha owning the VII and aspecting the VII is in 
the constellation of Moon in the Il bhavam and the lord of the XI. 


Thus Saturn and Jupiter signifying 2, 7 and 11 brought about the 
marriage. 


Marriage is an important occasion. Married life is much more 
important. Married life runs into (say 20-50 years). Should not a 
chart be examined before marriage thoroughly for a happy 
wedlock that is supposed to span 20-50 years. Is it not the 
Astrologers’ responsibility to caution the person concerned if the 
horoscope does not promise a happy wedlock? 


Now, what happened to smt  Geetha's Marriage? 
Nothing happend, both the husband and wife live together, 
they have two children going to school, they have a decent 
Government quarters, good health, decent incomes for Smt 
Geetha, and equally good income from the husband. Otherwise 
their married life is well. Smt. Geetha is beaten cruelly 
everyday by her husband who has the habit of drinking liquor 
and bad temper. 


The point | would like to mention here is Saturn Dasa, Jupiter 
bhukti gave her marriage. Moon the Sub Lord of the VII cusp is in 
Il. being Lord of the XI in the constellation of Jupiter in Lagna 
and Lord of the VII (signifying marriage) and in the Sub of Rahu 
in the Il. This proves marriage is inevitable. 


270 


Mercury dasa commenced 14-12-78. Mercury though Lord of | 
and X in Lagna bhavam though signifying unhappy married life gave 
her happy days and marital bliss. Mercury in the constellation and Sub 
of Rahu in the II dispositing Venus Lord of II and IX in the III gave her 
peaceful married life. 

Kethu bukthi ruined her peace. Kethu in the VIII representing Mars 
in the Lagna gave her anxious moments. Husband took liquor during 
this period and used to assault the wife brutally. Kethu is in the Sub of 
Mars in the Ascendant. When seen from the Kalathrastana the VII 
signifying the husband Mars is in the VII. This has resulted in the 
brutal behaviour of the husband. Kethu in the II from the VII signifying 
husband, Kethu taking the place of Mars, II signifying eating habits 
confirms irregular habits. Kethu in Barani constellation and Venus 
coupled with Saturn and Moon in a watery sign clearly has 
contributed to the drinking habit of the husband. 

Venus bukti passed off in the same way. Venus is in the Sub of 
Mars again. 

Until this day the husband is a drunkard harassing Smt Geetha. 
Why has she been tolerant? Why has she not sought 
separation? 


piace VII 11-40 : : 
Ket.174g. | AGO 


vi 1M0 XI 9-40 
Smt J. Geetha 
25-10-1957 Friday 
4-19a.m. 
Thiru vayyara 
balance in Jupiter dasa 


XII 10-40 
V 9-40 
2Ys-1M-18days 
Ven 23-34 Rahu 17-43 Asc. 11-02" 
IX 10-40 at-R 18-30 IL IMO Jup. 23-02 
Ill 11-40 erc. 8-33 
Mars 26-50 
Moon 1-33 Sun 8 


271 


Cusp 


= 


oa oa fF wO ND 


Planet 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Kethu 


Sub Cusp 
Moon 7 
Saturn 8 
Moon 9 
Saturn 10 
Venus 11 
Saturn 12 


Star lord 


Rahu 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Rahu 
Moon 
Mercury 
Mercury 
Rahu 
Venus 


Sub 
Moon 
Mercury 
Mars 
Saturn 
Venus 


Saturn 


Sub lord 


Rahu 
Rahu 
Jupiter 
Rahu 
Sun 
Mars 
Mercury 
Sun 


Mars 


Vil cusp Sub Lord Moon is virtuous and unsoiled 


Mercury the Dasanatha is the Lord of Lagna and the X signifying 
a noble self and prestige in life. She has a good man in the Society 
and Office. Finally, Mercury is in no way concerned with the XII, VI, or 
VIII to severe the wedlock. 


My pranams to Mahaganapathy and Salutations to Late Prof 
. KSK our unfailing beacon. 


GOOD LUCK 


