ASTROLOGY 
AND 
DIAGNOSIS 


BY : * MAJOR S.G. KHOT (Retd.) 
JYOTIHA - SHASTRI AND JYOSTISHA VACHSPATI 


FOREWORD 


It is a matter of great pleasure to write a foreword for the book 
" Astrology and Diagnosis” written by well renowned Astrologer Major. 
S.G.KHOT (Retired). This book contains wealth of material. 


Major Knot has been awarded the most coveted title of Jyotish 
Vachaspati by Jaipur Institution, which shows his qualities as a well- 
known Astrologer. 


Major Khot is well-known for his Astrological Predictions in general 
and specially in the field of diagnosis. He can predict the course of illness 
and their outcome many times against the well established diagnosis. 
Major Khot, who is the author of this book, is not a physician but his 
approach to the subject no doubt definitely indicates that he is an 
experienced and renowned research scholar. For a country like ours such 
an approach is greatly needed. 


I have gathered some information from different persons, who came 
in his contact for their ailments. His forecasts have been responsible to 
bring solace to some ailing persons and their relations. 


I. Major Khot's predictions for Justice Suraj Bhan, of M.P. High 
Court written in his letter on 7.4.74 were : 


I. Over the next two months you are likely to keep an indifferent 


health. 


3. After retirement the parts of the body that are likely to be affected 
are the portions between knees and ankles - calf muscles. The diseases 
heretofore to be guarded are - rheumatism, rheumatic heart disease, 
eczema, palpitation, High Blood pressure and fracture. 


4. It is advised that you should get your heart checked periodically. 
Shri Suraj Bhan died of Heart Failure on 1.10.74. 


2. Dr. CK.GUPTA, T.B Specialist writes from Indore : 


" The Rudraksha you had given me has kept me fit. I had taken one 


forMr. K.N.Swami who had hypertension and heart trouble. It is 
pleasure to inform you that for the first time in many years his B .P. 
was found to be normal after the use of Rudraksha. 


Now I want another piece for my aunt, who has also suffered 
from hypertension for many years." 


3. Dr. B.PThawait, M.S., Surgeon wrote to Major Khot : 


“ My wife and myself are extremely grateful to you Major Saheb, 
for your valuable predictions, advice and guidance. At times 
predictions looked contrary to existing medical findings but we are 
happy to say that they were the medical findings which were found 
to be incorrect subsequently. The predictions always stood as true 
facts. 


4. Dr. P.P. Pandit, Ph.D., Director Technical Education, Madhya 
Pradesh, says in his letter," I was so amazed with your extraordi- 
nary accurate prediction of infection or injury in July and August. 
In fact, my eye trouble persisted in these months. I showed yearly 
forecast to some friends including Shri S.P. Verma, to show the 
accuracy of predictions ". 


5. Dr. M.R Bhidey, M.Sc. Ph.D. (Nag.)., Ph.D. (Lond.)., A. Inst. P 
(Lond.) saying about his son's health remarked " My son left for 
England on 23.9.73 for his post-graduation. I had to make the mind 
hard way after I received your forecasts, for him. I did not tell him 
or my wife the forecast, but kept on warning him about extreme 
care. 


Tam glad to let you know that he had no trouble at all in U-K. He also 
visited U.S.A. and Canada and returned to Poona in a far improved 
condition. His ailment has vanished and now he has got a good job in Blue 
Star Engg. Co. He has also got M.Sc (Eng) and D.U.C. of London. 


Similarly there are many letters proving the worth of Major Khot as 
an Astrologer. 


He has contributed much to this ancient Science. It is no surprise that 
his vast experience in this field, based on observations and research 
should take the visible formin the publication of this valuable book. It will 


be monumental guide for the difficult art of medical Diagnosis at times. 


Ihave gone through this interesting book " Astrology and Diagnosis" 
in detail at places, written by the great author. I can emphatically say that 
correlation between prediction and disease is worth considering , while 
declaring the prognosis of any body. 


I trust that this book will fulfil the need in that direction to a great 
extent. I recommend this book to all medical men and the public in 
general. The form in which this science is practised and applied in the 
circumstances assumes a valuable position in our day to day life. 


It may be true that there is no best way to arrive at a conclusion but 
there is always a better way. 


I am confident that this book will achieve the success it deserves. 


28th August 1979. 
(Dr.M.KUMAR ) 
M.S.,FA.C.S. 
KUMAR NURSING HOME. Retired Professor of Surgery. 
INDORE. 


5. 


Authour's Introduction to Astrology and 1 
Diagnosis 


Elementary principles 10 
a. Division of the body of Kala-Purvsha- 

Rashi and Parts b. Division of Zodiac into 

Bhavas and Bhavas assigned to part of the 

body of Kala-Purusha.c. Division of plan- 

ets into Three Humours. d. Planetsrule over 

different diseases. 


Bhavas, Planets, Signs and Mandi- 5 
Indication For diseases. 

a. Diseases indicated by afflicted planets 
b.Diseases shown by the Ascendant falling 


in different signs.c. Diseases indicated by 
planets in various constellations. 


General Health. 24 
a. The position of the disease . b. The 
functions of planets. c. Duration of disease. 
d. The planets in transit give rise to disease. 


Signs ,Planets, Stars and the Human bod) 30 
a.Partsand Organs of human body assigned 

to 12 signs b. Parts of the body ruled by 

seven planets. c. Division of the human 

body based on the Drekkana of the rising 

sign. d. Control on the body by various 

raahis.c. Stars and the division of body. f. 

Visible and invisible parts. g. The five 

elements and three humours h. Indicatiéns 

by afflicted lords of elements. 


Genetic code to help cure inherited 38 
diseases. 

a. Transferb. Research c. How blood breaths 

d. Why blood tests are important. e.Extrac- 

tion f. Profile g. Automation h.Short stature 


10. 


11. 


CHAPTER 


i. Shocktherapy.j. Sleepinducing drugsare 
harmful.k. Fat reduction. 1. Avoid Tea and 
Coffee in excess. m. An alcoholic. n. Sweat- 
ing. 0. Physical Deformities. 


Deficiency of mineral salts in the body am 
dominant characteristics accordfug to 
Birth Dates.. 


Major and sub-periods of planets - bring 
out serious illnesses. « 


Diseases indicated by planets owning or 
occupying, sixth, eighth and [2th Bhavas. 


Brain and Nerves 

Diagnosis of Mental Derangement. Classi- 

cal Texts-whatthey say. The Mind in Health 
and Diseases. a. Abnormality of Mind. 

Astrological factors. Mental Diseases : a. 

Melancholia; Mania; Insanity; Lunacy; 

Epilepsy; Convulsions; Encephalitis; 

Neurasthania; Cerebral Thombrosis; Mi- 

graine; Delusions; Headache-two types; 

Insomnia; Meningitis; Hysteria; Sleeping 

sickness; Memory. b. Familiar astrological 

combinations forthe diseases. Psycho-Neu- 
rosis; Anxiety-Neurosis; Mental Imbalance. 
Insanity. Astrological factorsParalysis - 

Infantile Paralysis; Poliomyelitis; Astro- 

logical factors for the above. Pischha Bacha. 
Horoscopes of :- Meningitis; Insanity, To- 

tal Insanity, Paranoia of a temporary na- 

ture; Depressive maniac; Brain Tumor; 

Epilepsy; Paralysis, Poliomyelitis; 


ace and Throat 

Eye Diseases Myopia; Conjunctivitis; 
Keratitis; Cataract; Diplopia; Night Blind- 
Iness; Glaucoma. a. Astrological factors. for 
eye diseases. b. Horoscopes of Blindness, 


Sl 


6! 


70 


122 


12. 


CHAPTER 


Bom Blind -4. Deafness and ear diseases. a. 
Astrological factors for ear diseases. b, 
Mastoiditis. c Dumbness. and astrological 
factors.d. Diseases concerning Mouth and 
face, Tongue, etc. and Astrological factors. 
e. Horoscopes of Deaf and Dumb - 2 Nasal 
diseases and Astrological factors Rhinitis, 
Polypous; Ell's disease. Horoscope of 
Polypous. Throat Diseases and astrological 
factors Enlarged Tonsils, Chronic Tonsilli- 
tis; Gingivitis; Helatosis Pharyngitis , Diph- 
theria; Sore-throat; Stomatitis, Stammer- 
ing, Hare-lips; Tetanus. Dental Troubles 
Pyorrhoea; Flurosis; Beri-Beri. astrological 
factors for dental diseases, Pyorrhoea, 
Troubles in the mouth and face; Combina- 
tions for dental diseases. Horoscopes of - 
Defective and bad setting of teeth; Tetanus; 
Inflammation and TUMOR in the mouth; 
Tonsillitis; Pharyngitis, Diphtheria; Beri- 
Beri?. 


Chest , Langs and Heart 
Bronchitis a. Chronic Bronchitis. b. Respi- 
ratory infections. c.Whooping Cough. 
Asthma a. Asthma patients should avoid 
strain. b. Asthma and astrological factors. 
c. Horoscope of Asthma. Diseases concern- 
ing Breast and Mammal glands a. Astro- 
logical factor for the above. b. Horoscope 
of Tuberculosis of Lungs; Asthma; Pleu- 
risy with effluxions; Pleurisy,Cancer of 
Breast. c. Horoscope of Cancer of Breast. 
Tuberculosisa. Tuberculous Lymphadinitis. 
b. Astrological factors. c. Horoscope of 
Tuberculosis of Lungs. Pleura and Lungs 
diseases and their astrological factors Horo- 
scopes of Pleurisy and Pleurisy 


159 


13, 


14. 


: CHAPTER 


with effusion. Heart Diseases a. Astro- 
logical factors, b. Thrombosis of Heart. c. 
Angina Pectoris. d. Cardiac failure. 
e.Tachycardia. f. Horoscopes of Heart dis- 
ease -Sex and Heart Disease a. Waistline - 
Exercise and Heat. b. Angina pectoris and 
sexual intercourse. c. Within limits. Dis- 
eases of Spinal Cord Ischamic Heart.Disease 


Abdomen 7 
Diseases concerning Bowels and Intestinesa. 
Peptic Ulcer. b.Treatment of Chronic 
Gastritis and Duodenal Ulcers. c. Astro- 
logical factors. Diseases concerningSpleen. 
a. Astrological factors. Danger of Drink, 


Modification of Malefies. a After Effects . 


of Alcohol. Amoebic Hepatitis. Diseases 
concerning Liver a.Astrological foctors.b. 
Jaundice. Diseases of Bile. a. Astrological 
factors. Worms. a. Hook-worms b. Thread- 
worms c.Tape worm d.Round worms can 
cause Jaundice, Giardia Lamblia. eJiound 
worm. Gastro-Intestinal System. Stomach 
Diseases. a. Colic. and astrological factors. 
b. Ulcerative colitis. Excretory System. and 
Planets. Flatuence. Diseases concerning Gall 
Bladder a. Astrological factors. Dyspepsia, 
Diarrhoea Cholera. a. Astrological factors. 
Dysentery - Amoebiasis or Amoebic Dys- 
entery. a. Astrological factors. Appendici- 
tis and astrological factors. Dropsy - Astro- 
logical factors. Horoscopes of: a. Dropsy b. 
Cholera c. Colic pain d. Liver diseases e. 
Constant billious complaints f. Chronic 
dyspepsia g.Dysentery h. Appendicitis i. 
Peptic Ulcers j.Duodenal ulcers 


Impure Blood and Skin Diseases 
Leprosy. Astrological factors Care for 


193 


224 


15. 


16. 


17. 


: CHAPTER 


dry skin. Pigmentation Leukoderma As- 
trological factors Eczema in children., 
Eczema. Itches and Skin diseases - Astro- 
logical factors. Small-Pox - Chickenpox 
Astrological factors for the above. Dan- 
duff Urticaria Multiple Mylona, W art. 
Horoscopes of :- Leprosy, Small-pox, 
Chicken-pox 


Blood Circulatory System 

Leukemia a. Blood Cancer. b. Breast Can- 

cer. c. Astrological factors. Cancer. Astro- 

logical factors. Horoscopes of Cancer. Rick- 
ets. Circulatory System a. Anaemia b. As- 

trological factors for Anaemia, Blood Pres- 
sure.Impurity of Blood. Astrological fac- 

tors and Horoscope. Blood Pressure. Vari- 

cose Veins. 


Diseases of Metabolism 
Diabetes. Incipidus. Mellitus. Astrological 
factors. Horoscopes of Diabetes. 


Tumours, Boils, Carbuncles, Abscess etc, 
a. Astrological factors. Ulcers, Wounds, 
Cuts, Burns. a. Astrological factors Dis- 
eases of Bones. 1. Tuberculosis of Bones. a. 
Astrological factors. 2. Other diseases con- 
cerning Bones and Marrow. 3. Fractures of 
Bones a. Astrological factors. 4. Physical 
deformities. a. Astrological factors. b. Loss 
of Limbs. Rheumatic Diseases. a. 
Pheumatism. b. Astrological factors. c. 
Neuro-fibrositis. d. Thyroid glands e. Acne 
Vulgaris. ¢Hydrophobia. Accidents a. As- 
trological ftctojs. b. Troubles from poi- 
sons. c. Ageidents in Water. cd. Accidents 
from Vehicles, e. Arsenic Poisoning. f. 
’ Saake-bige.g, Hemophilia Horoscopes of:- 
17Malignant growth of house-Spinal cord. 


241 


263 


273 


18. 


CHAPTER 


2. Virulent tumours, Boils. 3. Big cut and 
would forehead. 4. Pituitary gland tumour; 
5. Compound fracture of right hand; 6. 
Minor fracture of right foot, 7. Physical 
Deformities; 8. Loss of limbs by amputa- 
tion; 9. Rheumatic Pains. 10. Hydrophobia. 
11.Poison by mouth;12. Burnt right hand 
resulting into Ulcer, 13. Accidents - 3 
Charts. 


Groins and Genital Organs 
Urinary System. Reproductive System. 
Impotency and Sterility. a. Astrological 
factors. Cysticercosis. Enuresis. Burning 
sensation while passing Urine. Frequency 
of Urination Urine diseases and astrologi- 
cal factors. a. Chronic Prostrate. b. 
Albuminuria. Diseases concerning Female 
Organs ‘& astrological factors. a. 
Leucorrhoea. b. Amenorthoea and horo- 
scope ¢. Dysmenorrhoea and horoscope. d. 
Menorrhagia and horoscope. e. Menstrual 
disorders and astrological factors. Diseases 
concerning Pelvis and Kidney. Astrologi- 
cal factors. Diseases concerning 
GenerativeOrgans. Astrological factors, a. 
Cyst b. Cholecystitis x. Hydrocele. d.Tes- 
tes. e. Hydrocele and astrological factors, f.. 
Hernia and astrological factors. Veneral 
Diseases. a. Syphilis. b. Gonorrhoea.  c. 
Soft Chancre. d. Astrological factors for 
the above diseases. Piles. Piles and Fistula 
a. Astrological factors. b. Fistula in ABO. 
Horoscopes of : 1. Piles. 2. Strangulated 
Hernia .3. Venereal disease. 4. Hydrocele.5. 
Pain at the time of menstrual discharge. 6. 
Impotency. 7. Sexual inabilities. 8. Pro- 
fuse bleeding at the time of menstruation. 
9. Ulcers in Genital Organs. 10. Tumour in 
Uterus;1 I. Disease of Ovaries and uterus. 


19. 


20. 


: CHAPTER 


12. Gall stone, 13. Stone in urinary Passage 


Othe r Diseases 

Pneumonia, Astrological factors. Mumps. 
Parkin's disease. Malaria. Typhoid. Black 
Water Fever. Filariasis. Plague. Paraple- 
gia. Eosinophilia. Influenza. Hemophilia 
Glandular fever. Heat Hyperpraxia or Sun- 
stroke. Astrological factors and Horoscopes 
of: Black water fever; Filaria; plague; Ty- 
phoid; Malaria and para-typhoid. Combi- 
nations producingdiseases. Muscular Atro- 
phy. 


Diseases in Horary Astrology 
Preliminary How to determine the nature of 
disease. Marakas and Malefic planets for 
differentLagnas. Period of Diseases. Dashas 
and Antardashas, Transits and Horoscopes. 
Recoveries from diseases. Combinations of 
diseases Combinations for Fatal diseases. 


335 


349 


CHAPTER 1 


AUTHORS INTRODUCTION 
TO 
ASTROLOGY AND DIAGNOSIS 


Astrology and Medicine are intimately linked in as much as the 
science of healing, forms an important part of remedial astrology. 
KARMA finds manifestation in physical, mental and spiritual planes, the 
resultant of evil Karma on the physical plane is disease and medicine is 
the first shanti or remedial measure forthe alleviation of human suffering. 


The fundamental purpose of Medical Astrology, is to give the 
planetary influences which cause the various diseases, afflictions and 
accidents. In ancient times all doctors were expected to know Astrology 
and its relation to disease what disease will be produced under different 
Pianctary conditions, the duration of such diseases and whether or not 
they would prove fatal. 


Modern Doctors would do well to lay aside their prejudices and make 
use of Astrology for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases. When 
properly applied astrology would quickly determine the seat of disease 
in the patient. Modern inventions and researches in various branches of 
science, including medicine, have been useful for the betterment and 
well-being of humanity as a whole. Yet there is something hidden which 
cannot be detected by the stethoscope, 'X-ray' or modern equipment and, 
therefore, there is a vast scope for application of astrology for diagnosis, 
even today. 


" Aphysician cannot safely administer medicine, if he is unacquainted 
with astrology ", said Hippocrates, who is known as the father of 
Medicine. There is much truth in it. Even in Ayurvedic, principles of 
astrology have been taken into consideration. The science of fore- 
knowledge is not only useful in diagnosing a disease, but also to determine 
longevity of the patient before starting the treatment. It is just like testing 
the pulse of a patient Consulting horoscope for physical as well as 
psychological adjustment is definitely less expensive and practical. 


Before entering the more intricate and complex principles of astrol- 
ogy and "occult Therapy” we should conceive at least as a working 
hypothesis apparently the ancient idea that the misuse of creative force 
is the sole cause of the manifestation of disease. As a matter of fact, there 


2 Astrology and Diagnosis 


is no ill-health in the physical body which did not exist first-in the Astral 
or psychic counterpart - the Etheric body. 


Diseases may be classed under two heads - Inherent and Active. 


Inherent tendencies to diseases are shown by the affliction in the birth 
horoscope. These tendencies may remain latent for long periods and then 
appear when the directions of evil planets are in progress. On the other 
hand, the active diseases may make their appearance with every evil 
transit, provided the Ascendant is weak and afflicted. 


Every student of astrology, must recognise the importance cf mental 
influence upon bodily ailment. The Moon roles over the mind, the 
Ascendant represents the body and the Sun the Soul, so that when the 
Moon and the Sun are strong free from affliction, one can enjoy sound 
health even if the Ascendant is subject to unfavourable aspects and 
conjunctions. All these days modern medicine has been persistently 
preaching that all diseases are curable by drugs. Ayurveda, on the othet 
hand, had recognised that physical diseases are inter-dependant upon the 
mind, and insisted that mental harmony was the sine quonon of health and 
well-being. That is why great stress was being laid by ancients on the 
strength of the Moon in the horoscope. 


Sickness in its various forms is caused through the differently 
composed afflictions of planets in the various signs of the zodiac and 
houses in the horoscope. For example, weakness of nervous vital energy 
arises mainly through the affliction of Saturn to the vital points viz the 
Sun, the Moon and the Ascendant. This causes lessening of the life force 
and simultaneously increases the tendency towards disease. 


Undoubtedly illness is a necessary aspect of human birth. Eac 
individual who takes birth at some stage or other falls ill or suffers frort 
various handicaps, but all diseases are not alike. Some maladies are 
conginetal like colour-blindness which cannot bé cured by any treatment 
Such diseases are Karmic. 


Diseases are the direct results of evil Karmas in the present and past 
births and the horoscope reveals the Karmas through the planets. It is 
possible to diagnose them through astrology. 


Astrology can predict and diagnose diseases by merely looking at the 
horoscope and can help mankind to take preventive measures . Astrology 
is therefore more useful than any other system of knowledge about 


diseases. A doctor cannot foresee a disease in a patient but an astrologer 
can. 


Author's Introduction 3 


The Karmic afflictions cannot be deciphered necessarily by one orthe 
other planets, though some planets like Rahu, Saturn, Ketu, are very 
important in signifying the Karmic limitations of the person. 


Our ancients held that primary cause of physical energy breakdown 
was an imbalanced caused by Vata, Pitta, and Shleshma. The trinity 
called "TRIDOSHA". It arose at a time when a person was most 
susceptible to adverse cosmic pulls. In the astrological literature, there is 
a thorough classification of diseases and the planetary patterns which 
cause them. 


CHAKRAPANI, a famous commentator, classifies that one has to 
understand the inherent meaning of the words Vata, Pitta and Kapha or 
Motivity, agility and gravity respectively. Put in a different way these 
three correspond to Motion, Energy and Inertia. It may not be quite safe 
to assume that Vata, Pitta, Kapha are just the three chemical substances 
of wi nd, bile a nd mucous. 


Destiny is relentlessly incontrovertible and is virtual governor of 
every facet of human life. No one from a beggar to a King can escape its 
mandate. A beggar becomes a King and a King becomes a wreck and a 
wreck becomes an atheletic; a saint becomes a villain and a villain 
becomes a saint; a fool becomes a Pundit and a Pundit becomes a fool 
under its unfathomable pranks. 


Astrology is no more an occult science of the mysterious East in the 
hands of religious mystics but is a modern science based on scientific facts 
and research. The astrologers have formulated certain astrological prin- 
ciples by constant observations and deductions over the study of countless 
horoscopes. - 


Medical Astrology is a very important branch of this vital science 
which no doubt requires a rare combination of an astrologer and a 
physician. But unfortunately I am not a physician. 


Medical Astrology is not a new subject. Our ancient sages dealt with 
this subject some thousand years ago. Yet there are thousands of diseases 
which require the attention of modern astrologers. 


Diseases may be classified under two heads: Those indicated by 
adverse changes in planet's influence and the other category which is 
brought about by environmental discord. 


Diseases which the destiny has programmed are inherent diseases. 
Their nature, the timing of their appearance and even their duration are 


4 Astrology and Diagnosis 


predetermined since they are the fruits of previous Karmas already in 
picture at the birth. 


On the other hand, planets play only a passive role with regard to 
diseases caused by environmental stress and strains. These are the active 
type which appear on and off whenever operative influence is weak and 
devoid of benefic influence. 


By a study of weak influences exact in the birth horoscope, the nature 
of disease, one is susceptible to, is inferred from the directional system, 
low resistance periods during life-span can be underlined during which 
active diseases are likely to surface. 


Whether the disease will actually manifest itself and its duration, 
however, depends upon the effectiveness and remedial measures taken. 


The Ascendant is the whole of one's life; it is also the mind and general 
approach to life. Most of the diseases of madness of modern life arise due 
to psychological reasons. The disposition of the Ist house is very 
important from Karmic standpoint. If the 1st house is afflicted, it is surely 
the result of past Karmas. 


The fourth house signifies Heart. The increasing impact of Heart 
failure, nervous disorders and psychomatic diseases, arises when the 4th 
house is afflicted. In this kind of trouble Moon has to play an important 
role. If the affliction is caused by malefic Rahu, the disease will not elude 
detection; it will even cause lasting impact on the mind. 


7th house is important because the pelvic region is the vital location 
of serious physical ailments. Sterilization, Venereal infection, urinary 
troubles, impotency, have their beginning in the condition of the 7th 
house. The ancient Texts do not contain many combination for sex 
diseases. 


This was perhaps due to the fact that people in ancient India led a 
healthy sexual life. With the increase in influence of Western culture, the 
native became condemned to many a disease pertaining to sexual organs. 
With the influx of foreign troops in India, diseases like Gonorrhoea, 
Syphilis, etc have become common. 


The 10th house is important even for considering physical diseases 
because many of the diseases arise due to stress and strain of one's 
professional career. Suicides and nervous breakdowns have often oc- 
curred due to difficult professional conditions. A Pilot <Jying of plane 
crash, the Miners being trapped in Mines, or person suffering from 
writer's cramp, etc must be the cause of these ailments in their 10th house. 


Author's Introduction 5 


In the ancient times 6th, 7th, 8th, 12th houses were very important in 
order to prophecy the impending diseases. In the modern times, She 
situation has totally changed. Therefore, along with these houses the 
conditions have to be considered also forthe reason stated above. 


> 


Astrology is more useful than any other system of knowing abut 
diseases. Doctors cannot foreseediseases that may fall ona man, whereas 
anastrologer can fromthe horoscope. The correlation between the planets 
and diseases was established thousand years ago by our sages, who, by 
their meticulous observations and study of charts found out certain 
combinations of planets responsible for the appearance of certain dis- 
eases. The following are some combinations of planets which give 
ailments to a man, as an example. 


THE SUN AND VENUS: They are responsible for boils on the knee, 
throat, harshness of voice, burning sensation in blood, pain in hands and 
shoulders, stone in kidney and thinning of semen. 


THE SUN AND MARS: The man generally suffers from ulceration 
in the eyes, Hemicrania, sudden depression of mind, talk in delirium in 
high fever, impotency, inflammation of urinary track, constipation and 
untimely suppression on menses. 


THE SUN AND MERCURY : Contageous fever, burning sensation 
in certain parts of the body, scurvy, pain and weakness in legs, diseases 
in the intestines and pain in the neck are caused by the influence of the 
above two planets. 


THE SUN AND JUPITER : They bring an excessive pain in thighs, 
fistula, hysteria diseases of the rectum, pleurisy, tuberculosis. 


THE SUN AND SATURN: When afflicted , kneesare permanently 
maimed, further there may appear diseases of the intestines and the 
nerves, formation of stones, blood poisoning, and obstruction in urinary 
tract. 


THE SUN AND THE MOON : They are causes of getting measles, 
small-pox, derangement of stomach, harsh voice, dropsy and inflamma- 
tion of legs. 


THE MOON AND MARS : They make people idle. They also bring 
in weakness of eye-sight, pain in knee, diseases of the rectum, small-pox, 
dropsy, heart disease, toximia, hysteria and headache due to cold. 


THE MOON AND VENUS: They are responsible for painin the leg 
and foot, defects in throat or veins, pain in the back and leucorrhoea. 


6 Astrology and Diagnosis 


THE MOON AND MERCURY: They cause rheumatism in the leg 
or the foot, and the pain moves font one part of the limb to the other; 
bedides there is pain in intestines. 


THE MOON AND SATURN : They are the causes for feeling of 
we@kness in the back, formation of stone, gout at the knee, leucorrhoea, 
hyéteria, epilepsy and pain in legs and rectum. 


’ 

THE MOON AND JUPITER : Diseases contacting Col at feet, 
inflammation of leg dropsy etc are caused from the defects of the above 
combinations. 

JUPITER AND MARS : They are responsible for throat inflamma- 
tion, headache due to derangement of nerve in the brain, piles, anaemia 
and dropsy. Besides the patient dreams of peculiar things and thinks of 
peculiar objects. 


JUPITER AND VENUS: Throat diseases, blood pressure, excess of 
blood, blood poisoning, pain from tumours and piles, are due to above two 
planets. 


JUPITER AND MERCURY: They bring pleurisy, derangement of 
nerves, tuberculosis or any other disease of the lungs. 


JUPITER AND MOON : They are responsible for dropsy, diseases 
of the stomach and loss of appetite. 


JUPITER AND SATURN : A very harsh voice and rheum atisnt are 
caused by the combination of the above two planets. 


MARS AND VENUS : They are causes of unbearable pain in the 
throat and neck, headache, inflammation of kidney, diseases of rectum, 
particularly ulceration in that region, excessive haemorrhage during 
menstruation period. 


MARS AND MERCURY : They are responsible for blood-poison- 
ing, itches, intestinal obstruction, worms in children, pain the stomach 
just like pain in cholera cases. 


MARS AND SATURN : They completely put out of order either 
hands or legs in gout accompanied with fever. Besides they also cause 
mental disease, diseases of the head due to cold, constipation, by 
obstruction in the bowels, toothache, deafness, inflammation of the 
rectum, syphilis and all sorts of venereal diseases. 


SATURN AND VENUS: They are responsible for diphtheria, pain 


Author's Introduction 7 


and inflammation of throat and neck, scurvey, aphonia, chronic diseases 
of the neck and throat, blood poisoning and unbearable pain in the kidney. 


VENUS AND MERCURY : They cause throat trouble, inflamma- 
tion of the neck, aphonia, pain at the feet and obstruction in the urinary 
tract. 


The signs of the zodiac also have relationship with diseases and 
different parts of the human body. It is a well-known fact that the signs 
form the part of the body of the KALAPURUSHA starting from Aries 
and starting fromthe Ascendant. I shall now discuss the diseases and parts 
of the body represented by the signs. These should be considered along 
with the diseases controlled by the planets. It should also be borne in mind 
that the diseases referred to below result only when evil planets are 
posited in the sign or afflict it. The effective time is the Dasa period of 
the planet. 


When the sign ARIES is afflicted, the head, stomach and kidneys are 
the chief parts of the body are likely to be affected. The eyes and brain 
are also liable to disorder. There is a danger of feverish disorders, eruption 
on the face, accidents from fire, burns, cuts etc. It may also cause hairlip, 
ringworm and appoplexy. 


Afflicted TAURUS gives rise to such complaints of the throat and 
heart as diphtheria, goitre, laryngitis, and by reflex action may affect the 
excretary system giving rise to piles and fistula. Apoplexy is also a 
complaint connected with Taurus. 


GEMINI causes diseases of the wind, infirmities of the arms, hands 
and shoulder. The lungs are likely to be affected and bronchitis, asthma 
and impurities of the blood may result. The lungs and nervous system are 
the chief parts affected. 


CANCER sign brings the affliction of the stomach. The digestive 
organs and mind are affected. It signifies imperfections all over the body 
specially in the breast and stomach. Tendency to rotten coughs, cancer in 
the breast may also result when this sign is severely afflicted. 


LEO brings all sickness in the ribs and sides , convulsions, pain in the 
back, trembling, burning fevers, weakness or diseases of the heart, sore 
eyes and yellow jaundice. This sign roles the heart. 


VIRGO causes infirmities in the testicles and diseases of the belly. 
The bowels are the parts mostly affected and worry, anxiety, constitu- 
tional changes, weather, etc disturb the system. The main effect is on the 
digestive system and mind. 


8 Astrology and Diagnosis 


LD3RA causes all diseases of stones, etc in the kidneys, diseases of 
the loins and hunches, ulcers and stones in the rein or bladder and 
corruption of the blood. It also causes typhoid or enteric fevers and cold 
in the lumbar region. 


Afflicted SCORPIO causes troubles to excretary system. It may also 
affect heart and throat and cause disorders in the generative system. 
Gravel and stone in the secret parts of both men and women, fistula piles 
and all afflictions of private parts of men and women may result when 
scorpio is afflicted. Defects in the matrix, injuries to the spermatic chords 
and groin may also occur. 


SAGITTARIUS governs thighs and nervous system. When afflicted 
it causes nervous breakdown, accidents, cuts and bites and kicks from 
animals specially horses. It may also cause tumours in the thighs and 
buttocks. 


CAPRICORN governs the knees and the skin. It causes depression, 
melancholia, colds and chills and constipation. Leprosy, itch, and 
cutaneous complaints may also be found in Capricorn. 


AQUARIUS rules the blood, legs, ankles, eyesight and may also 
cause infirmities to these members. Sposmadis and nervous 
diseases,cramps, winds, tetanus diseases in the stomach are also not 
uncommon in Aquarius. 


PISCES governs the feet and fluids in the body. Boils and ulcers from 
currupt blood and carelessness and forgetfulness may result when the sign 
Pisces is afflicted. 


Thus an astrologer can foresee the possibility of a person liable to 
suffer beforehand and much before the onset of the disease, whereas a 
doctor cannot. From the calculation of the period and sub-periods of the 
planets he can determine the time of the onset of the disease and its 
duration, from the horoscope of the person. 


Horoscope is a very potential instrument for the diagnosis of the 
diseases as well as for taking preventive measures well in time. A doctor 
resorts to microscope when in doubt and wants exact cause of the disease. 
Astrologer makes use of Navamsa and dwadasmsa charts. Thus he has 
also finer instruments in the diagnosis of a disease. Thus astrology can 
help as an aid to medical diagnosis. 


Except for the book entitled " Principles and Practice of Medical 
Astrology" by Dr. Jagannath Rao, who is not only experienced and 


Author's Introduction 


efficient physician but a renowned Astrologer, there has so far been no 
single volume, exclusively devoted to this subject and based on Hindu 
astrology. At least I have not come across one. 


In presenting this book, I have two-fold objects to fulfil, namely, to 
acquaint the astrologers with details of diseases and to present to lay 
readers the principles of Medical Astrology in aneasy and understandable 
manner. My another object is to tell the Medicos' about the correctness 
of this science. 


In the end, must thank all those, through whom I have derived a lot 
of inspiration, guidance and knowledge, which has enabled me to place 
before the readers my efforts of past 30 years. All knowledge starts with 
the collection of facts, their classification and then theories. 


I must also mention here that articles of eminent writers contributed 
and published through Astrological magazines have been of immense 
help to me and J must therefore express my gratitude to them. 


I fervently hope that readers, students of astrology, Medical men, 
would appreciate my labours and if they do so, ] think I have fulfilled my 
mission. 


MAJOR.S.G.KHOT (Rtd) 
AUTHOR 


F-45 MIG COLONY 
INDORE (M.P)452008 


CHAPTER 2 


ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 
KALAPURUSHA - RASHI AND PARTS 


The body of KALAPURUSHA (Time personified) has been divided 


into twelve parts and each part has been assigned to a sign commencing 
from ARIES. They are as follows :- 


Sign. PART OF KALA-PURUSHA 
(TIME PERSONIFDZD) 

ARIES. Head. 
TAURUS. Face. 
GEMINI. Neck. 
CANCER. Chest. 
LEO. Upper Abdomen. 
VIRGO. Lower Abdomen. 
LD3RA. Groins. 
SCORPIO. Genital Organs. 
SAGITTARIUS. Thighs. 
CAPRICORN. Knees. 
AQUARIUS. Shanks. 
PISCES. Feet. 


ARIES, LEO, SAGITTARIUS signs rule VITALITY. 

TAURUS, VIRGO, CAPRICORN signs rule BONE AND FLESH. 
GEMINI, LIBRA, AQUARIUS signs role over BREATHING. 
CANCER, SCORPIO, PISCES signs rule over BLOOD. 


BHAVAS - ASSIGNED To PARTS OF THE BODY OF KALA 
PURUSHA 


The Zodiac is also divided into twelve houses reckoned from Ascen- 
dant and each house commonly knows as Bhava is assigned to a specific 
part of the body of the KALA-PURUSHA. Here also the first house 


represents Head, the Second house represents Face and so on. They are 
as follow : 


HOUSES OR BHAVA. PART OF KALA- 
PURUSHA. 
First House or Lagna Bhava. Head, Brain and Mind. 


Second House. Face, eyes, Nose, Tongue, 


Elementary Principles 11 


Teeth, Ears, Fingers, Nails, 
Bones and Flesh. 

Third House. Neck, Throat, Collar Bones, 
Hands, Breathing, Ears, and 
Bodily growth. 


Fourth House. Heart, Lungs, Chest and 
Blood. 

Fifth House. Upper abdomen and Mind. 

Sixth House. Lower abdomen, Naval, 
bones, flesh and mental 
faculties. 

Seventh House. Groins, Semen, Female 
organs and Breathing. 

Eighth House. Genital organs, Urine, 
Blood. 

Ninth House. Thighs and Limbs. 

Tenth House. Knees, Bones and Flesh. 

Eleventh House. Shanks and Breathing. 

Twelfth House. Feet and Blood. 


The houses from second to sixth govern the right side of the body and 
from twelfth to eighth in reverse order govern the left side of the body. 


DIVISION OF PLANETS INTO THREE HUMOURS 


The planets are working both for building up and destroying the body 
and they have different activities and functions (Karakatwas) over it. 
Firstly, the planets are divided in to three HUMOURS, namely VATA, 
PITTA and KAPHA (i.e. Wind, Bile and Phlegm) and are as follows : 


VATA (WIND) Planets Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn. 
PITTA (BILE) Planets Sun and Mars. 
KAPHA (PHELGM) Planets Jupiter. 


Moon, Venus and Sunhave also slightly Kapha, qualities; Saturnand 
Jupiter have slightly Pitta qualities; and Mercury has slightly Pitta and 
Kapha qualities: 


The Planets also govern different parts of the body :- 


SUN. Stomach, Bone, Right Eye, Heart, Skin, Belly, Head 
and constitution of the body. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


MOON. Heart, Lungs, Mind, Blood, Left Eye, Kidney, alimentary 
canal and water in body. 


MARS. Blood, Marrow, Energy, Neck, Genitals, red colouring - 
matter in Blood, Rectum, Head, Veins, Female organs and 
Vitality. 


MERCURY. Chest, Nerves, Skin, Navel, Nose, Spinal system, and Gall 
Bladder. 


JUPITER. Thighs, Fat, Brain, Lungs, Liv :r, Kidney, Ear, Memory, 
Tongue and Spleen. 


VENUS. Face, Eye-Sight, Genital Organs, Semen, Urine, Lustre of 
the body, Throat, Water in body and Glands. 


SATURN. Legs, Bones, Muscles, Limbs, Teeth, Skin and Hair. 


RAHU. Feet and Breathing. 
KETU. Belly. 


The Planets also rule over different diseases and they are as follows: 


SUN 


Trouble in Right Eye, High fever, Heart diseases, Stomach diseases, 
Skin diseases, Fracture of Bones, Leprosy, Internal fever, Brain trouble, 
Disease in Head and all past diseases. 


MOON 


Diseases of Heart and Lungs, Diseases in Left Eye, Over-Sleepiness, 
Intertia, Ashtama, Diarrhoea, Bloodlessness, Poisoning of Blood, Dis- 
eases from Water, Vomiting, Kidney trouble, Diabetes, Menstrual Dis- 
order, Dropsy, Appendicitis and diseases of Breasts and Memommory 
Glands. 


MARS 


Diseases from Heat, Poisoning, Cuts and Wounds, Leprosy, Sore-eye, 
Itches, Diseases of Blood, Diseases inNeck, Diseases of Marrow, Blood 


Pressure, Loss of Energy, Diseases in Female Organs, Fracture of Bone, 
Urinal diseases, Boils, Tumours, Cancer, Piles, Menstrual disorder, 
Ulcers, Dysentery and Diseases in Rectum. 


Elementary Principles 13 
MERCURY 


Diseases of Chest, Diseases of nerves, Small-pox, Chicken-pox, 
Epilepsy, Diseases of Nose, Navel diseases, High Fever, Diseases from 
Poison, Itches, Fracture of Bone, Typhoid, Madness, Diseases of Gall 
Bladder, Paralysis, Fits, Ulcers, Indigestion, Cholera, Diseases in Mouth 
and Skin diseases. 


JUPITER 


Liver, Kidney, Lungs diseases, Ear troubles, Diabetes, Lack of 
Memory, Tongue malady, Diseases of Spleen, Dropsy and Diseases in 
Thighs. 


VENUS: 


Eye trouble, Venereal diseases, Diseases in Face, Urinary diseases, 
Fading away of Lustre in Body, Fits, Indigestion, Throat trouble, 
Diabetes, Sex Incompetency, Impotency, Dropsy, Fever and Diseases 
concerning Glands. 


SATURN 


Weakness, Pain or aches in stomach, Damage and loss of limbs, 
Diseases of teeth, Skin and legs, Fracture of bones, Diseases in connection 
with bones, Rheumatic pains, Blindness, Mental worry, Wounds, Ugly 
hair, Pain in muscle, Paralysis, Hysteria and Deafness. 


RAHU 


Lung trouble, Diseases in feet, Pain on walking,Xeprosy, Difficulties 
in breathing, Enlargement of Spleen, Cataract, Hydrocele. 


KETU 


Lungs trouble, Fever, Eye-pain, Stomachpain, Boils, Pains in body, 
and diseases from unknown causes. 


The sixth house is the house of diseases. The sixth house of the natural 
Zodiac i.e. VIRGO Sign, and the sixth house from Lagna rule Health. The 
causes of diseases are to be found cut from respective houses, signifying 
planets (Karaka), sixth house, sixth lord, Virgo sign, etc. The sixth houses 
fromthe Sunandthe Moonand alsosixth house fromNavamsa Ascendant 
(Lagna) in Navamsa Chart have the same function. 


The planet who is sixth in order of degrees, minutes etc, expounding 


14 Astrology and Diagnosis 

signs is ruler of diseases. Saturn, the worst malefic, is also significator of 
all diseases. Rahu represents the suffering and Jupiter represents the 
recovery from illness. The ruler of benefic houses also rules over 
recoveries. Eighth and twelfth houses also rule over diseases. The Sun is 
the significator of our body and soul. Moonis the significator of Mind and 
Jupiteris the significatorof thinkingpower. WhenMind is dejected, body 
is suffering; when health goes off, the mind becomes dejected; when we 
think in bad ways our mind and body suffer; thus Sun, Moon and Jupiter 
have vital parts in building our body, mind and health. 


The affliction of Sun, Moon, Bhava-lord and Signifying Planets in 
natal chart (Horoscope) or affliction of these by malefic planets in transit 
by way of conjunction or aspect gives rise to diseases in that part of the 
body which is represented by the house or pla net thus afflicted. The well- 
fortification of a house orplanet guarantees the soundness and growth of 
that part, which the house or, the planet rule. 


Suppose Satum or Rahu is in Aries sign; then we can assume that the 
native may suffer from some trouble in Head. Ifthe Ascendant is also 
afflicted, by malefics, the chances of sufferings are more. 


If the Sun, the Moon, Significator for head are also afflicted, the 
chances of diseases in head only increase. The nature of the disease will 
depend on the nature of the house afflicted; Death-inflicting (Maraka) 
planet aspecting and afflicting planets etc. 


The aspect and conjunction of benefic planets will minimise, the evil 
influences and more the benefic influences increase, the less the 
sufferings will be. If both the benefic and malefic influences are equal, 
the diseases may not occur at all. 


Suppose Aries sign is afflicted, but the Ascendant, the Sun, the Moon 
and Significator are not afflicted and same are well-fortified by benefic 
influences, in such cases there will be a little chance of any disease in 
Head. What he may suffer from at worst, will be casual pain in Head, 
mental irritation, wrong way of thinking. 


CHAPTER3 


BHAVAS, PLANETS, SIGNS AND 
MANDI - INDICATION FOR DISEASES 


1, The Sun and other Planets ruling over the five rudimentary 
elements, the three humours, the six seasons and the various parts of the 
human body are constantly changing in their relative positions and 
aspects which tend to enhance or reduce or alter the intensity of the 
effects, good orbad, on the beings of this globe. The study of a horoscope 
for diseases entails, therefore, a minute scrutiny of all signs, planets and 
bhavas, their relative positions, strength, combinations, aspects, Dasa 
periods and also the effect accruing from the transitory changes of 
planets. In other words, a detailed examination of the chart fromallangles 
is absolutely essential and this in its turn calls for a comprehensive 
knowledge of the science in all its branches. 


Though all bhavas are to be closely examined, the Sixth, eighth and 
twelfth bhavas call for a very careful study as all authors are unanimous 
in their view that diseases are to be ascertained from them. The lords of 
these bhavas, planets posited in them, planets aspecting them and planets 
association with the lords are also to be meticulously studied. The 
affected parts of the body are indicated by the signs occupied by the lords 
of the sixth, eighth and twelfth bhavas. The sign in which Mandi is 
posited, the sign in which the lord of the sign occupied by the Mandi falls 
and signs occupied by Rahu and Ketu are also indicative of the affected 
parts. The ascendant and its lord are to be throughly scanned as the 
unpleasant position, weakness, applicationand combination with malefic 
planets of the lord of the ascendant show physical and planets aspected 
by the lord of the ascendant indicate the types of diseases. 


Ascendant is the body while the sixth, eighth and twelfth bhavas are 
the houses of illness and hence their importance in this study. 


The first four bhavas from the ascendant indicate the present life, 
bhava s fromthe fifth to the eighth the future life, while the ninth to twelfth 
bhavas show the past life. In other words, the signs in the trine of the 
ascendant fromthe rising signs of the three lives present, future and past. 
According to this, the twelfth bhava of the previous life unfolds as the 
eight bhava in the present life. The house of Happiness - the fourth bhava 


16 Astrology and Diagnosis 

of the past life comes up as the twelfth bhava in the present life.In the same 
manner the tenth bhava of the previous life - the house of actions - 
becomes - the sixth bhava in the present, the house of diseases. The 
remedial measures mentioned in the Mahavnava text are based on the 
above line of arguments of the close relationship of the present sixth 
bhava with the tenth of past life. On following up the same argument it 
will be found that the twelfth bhava of the present ascendant turns out as 
the eigth bhava of the future life, the present tenth bhava becomes the 
sixth while the fourthbhava to the present rising sign unfurls a s the twelfth 
of the coming life. 


Diseases are results of bad thoughts, words and deeds reactions of 
sinful deeds, mental, vocal and physical - and these‘attack the bodies and 
minds by the deranged humours andby the affections by bad and invisible 
Spirits as indicated by the unfavourable planetary positions. 


2. It is however, to be noted that when the lord of the sixth bhava is 
strong and pleasantly posited, health and other good results fall to the lot 
of the native. Happiness, Wealth, boldness and defeat for enemies are 
indicated. A strong and favourable posited eighth lord gives health, 
longevity, servants, cattle, wealth and success in litigation and quarrels. 


In similar situation the twelfth lord bestows onthe native favours from 
ruling authorities, good sleeping materials and opportunities forspending 
money on good causes which tend to wash off sins and to win moral 
strength and a peaceful end. We have, therefore, to conclude that it is the 
afflictions and weakness of planets that cause diseases. 


3. Malefics posited in bhavas other than the third and the sixth and 
benefics occupying third, sixth, eighths and twelfth bhavas indicate 
susceptibility of the body to ailments. Mandi in J, 4,5, 7,8, 9 and 10th 
also gives rise to diseases. Weak malefics posited in the 6th, 8th, 12th,7th, 
4th, Ist, 9th and 5th bhavas and benefics occupying the 6th, 8th and 12th 
bhavas are considered to be in an uncongenial state. Even though the 
benefic planets in the 6th, 8th and 12th bhavas are strong they are 
considered as unpleasantly situated. Weak benefics will be inclined to do 
more evil. Of the planets thus posited in anunpleasant condition, enemies 
of the lord of the ascendant, causes the worst effects. Malefics falling in 
2nd, 3rd, 11th and 10th bhavas and benefics in all other bhavas than 6th, 
8th and 12th are said to be happily posited. Planets in combination with 
the Moon are considered to be a happy condition. 


Bhavas, Planets rs 
DISEASES INDICATED BY AFFLICTED PLANETS 


SUN:- Sickness caused by the displacement of bile. Fevers arising from 
excessive heat, general weakness, heart diseases, stomach troubles, eye 
diseases, skin ruptures, gonorrhoea, wounds, burns, fits, falls, troubles 
arising from poison. 


MOON ::- Lethargy, sleepiness, indolence, diseases arising from excited 
kapha (Phelgm), dysentery, fevers arising from acute cold, boils, taste- 
lessness and indigestion, jaundice, mental debility, illness from impurity 
of blood, accidents in water ,attacks by animals with horns and by aquatic 
creatures. 


MARS :- Thirst, impurity of blood and diseases arising there from, 
jaundice, fever, troubles from fire, weapons and poison; leprosy; eye 
troubles, fits of all kinds, diseases of marrow, beri-beri, itches and boils, 
diseases of the head. 


MERCURY ::- Aberration of mind; diseases of eyes, neckand nose, fever 
arising from the derangement of Vata (Air), Pitta and Kapha (Phlegm): 
skin diseases; white leprosy, itches and boils, falls from heights, poison- 
ing and general debility. 


JUPITER :- Gastric and Gas troubles, fever, morbidness, diseases 
arising from vitiated phlegm, ailments of ears, fainting, insensibility, 
diabetes, accidents from aeroplanes. 


VENUS :- While leprosy, diseases arising from Vata a nd Kapha and from 
inordinate sexual connections, eye troubles, diabetes, urinary and vene- 
real diseases, Gonorrhoea, leanness, lethargy, facial ailments, swellings 
and general weakness." 


SATURN :- Rheumatic troubles of all kinds, diseases of the feet and 
stomach, morbidness, gastric and phlegmatic troubles, bruises from 
stones and trees and gaseous ailments. 


RAHU :- Weakness and sickness of heart, leprosy, diseases due to 
poisoning, ailments of feet and all troubles difficult for diagnosing. 
KETU :- Cuts, wounds, ulcers, burns and those, listed under RAHU. 


DISEASES SHOWN BY THE ASCENDANT FALLING IN THE 
DIFFERENT SIGNS 


LEO :- Troubles of eyes and the stomach. 


18 Astrology and Diagnosis 


CANCER :-Tastelessness; ulcers in the mouth; diseases of the tongue, 
heart troubles, cold. 


ARIES AND SCORPIO :- Diseases of the Head and Eyes, fever, itches 
and boils, wounds, cuts and bruises. 


GEMINI AND VIRGO :- Asthma, Swellings, diseases of the Skin and 
nose. 


SAGITTARIUS AND PISCES :- Troubles in ears, forgetfulness, mental 
disorders, gastric and Bladder ailments. 


TAURUS AND LIBRA :- Tastelessness, cold, venereal diseases. 


CAPRICORN AND_AQUARIUS :- Urinary and Intestinal troubles, 
stopage of urine and Fecus, ulcers, cuts or wounds in the nose, pains in 
joints, mental disorders. 


DISEASES INDICATED BY PLANETS IN VARIOUS 
CONSTELLATIONS 


SUN - In the constellation of Ketu, causes Low Blood Pressure, and 
Angina Pectoris. 


In the constellation of Venus, he produces burning micturation and 
predisposition to cystitis and pruritus vulva. 


In the constellation of Mercury, causes Migraine, trigeminal neural- 
gia and other neuralgias. 


In the constellation of Moon, causes a person highly temperamental 
and pessimistic. 


In the constellation of Mars, causes anaemia, giddiness and Marasmus. 


In his own constellation , produces eruptive fevers and irritability. 
In the constellation of Jupiter, causes Jaundice and other Liver 
diseases, as also gall bladder disease. 


In the constellation of Rahu,.produces,mental disease, forgetfulness, 
general dullness and mentally deficient. 


Krittika Ist and fourth padas are not good. The person will be 
of bilious nature and suffers from indigestion. 


Bhavas, Planets 19 


Utara 2nd pada is bad generally speaking. 


Uttarashadha — 3rd pada of this constellation is also not good for 
health. 


MOON - In the constellation of Ketu, makes the person irritable and 
aggressive. He will however be timid when met with opposition. In the 
constellation of Venus, makes the person of delicate health and such 
people do not have much resista nce to disease a nd are liable to suffer from 
venereal disease. 


In the constellation of Mercury, makes a person highly imaginative. 
Such people always worry about some thing or other and are upset with 
slightest indisposition. 


In her own constellation, gives one a robust health and such people are 
always jovial and carefree. 


In the constellation of Sun, as already described makes a person 
temperamental. 


In the constellation of Jupiter, again gives robust health. 


In the constellation of Saturn, makes one to suffer from mental 
diseases. 


In the constellation of Rahu, makes one suffer from various Phobias 
and timidity. 


In the constellation of Mars, makes one to suffer from skin diseases 
and menhorragia and blood in micturation. 


Rohini Generally speaking Rohini is a good constellation but Ist 
pada renders a person very susceptible to cold. 

Hasta 3rd pada makes a man very sensitive and of worrying 
nature. , 


Sravana 2nd pada makes one, sensuous and indiscreet in sexual 
matters. 


MARS - In the constellation of Ketu, makes the person highly irritable 
and the person would suffer from High blood pressure. 


In the constellation of Venus, again predisposes a person to venerea] 
disease, more particularly Gonorrhoea. 


20 
Astrology and Diagnosis 


In the constellation of Mercury, causes mental aberration. 


In the constellation of Sun, described in the foregoing lines causes 
Anaemia. 


In the constellation of Moon, as already mentioned causes Skin 
diseases. 


In his own constellation, gives robust health. 
In the constellation of Jupiter, again gives good health. 
In the constellation of Saturn, gives suicidal tendencies. 


In the constellation of Rahu, gives Homicidal tendencies and sex 
perversion. 


Mrigsira The 3rd and 4th padas are not good. They cause irritabil- 
ity, High blood pressure and heart trouble. 


Chitra Ist pada makes one proud, he suffers much even from 
slight humiliation. His brain is the workshop of the 
‘devil’. 


Dhanishta Ist pada is said to be bad for good health. 


MERCURY - In the constellation of Ketu, causes mental aberration 
and megalo-mania. 


In the constellation of Venus, causes Leukoderma. 


Jn the constellation of Moon, makes one highly imaginative and 
worrying type. 


In the constellation of Mars, causes mental aberration constant 
headaches and nervous temperament. 


In the constellation of the Sun, causes Neuralgia as already stated. 
In the constellation of Jupiter, gives great stamina. 


In his own constellation, gives a great mental power and acuteness of 
vision and self-confidence. 


In the constellation of Rahu, causes mental diseases, timidity and 
inferiority complex. 


21 
Bhavas, Planets 


In the constellation of Saturn, causes again predisposition to mental 
aberration. 


Aslesha 2nd and 4th padas are not good, generally speaking. 
Jyeshta 2nd and 3rd padas are considered bad. 


Revati 2nd pada makes one sensuous and suffer from excessive 


sexual indulgence and 3rd pada makes one dull-headed 
and slow in action. Such people do not care for personal 
cleanliness. 


JUPITER - In the constellation of Ketu, produces Infective Hepatitis 
and Liver abscess. 


In the constellation of Venus, causes sexual-weakness, giddiness and 
jaundice. 


In the constellation of Moon, causes robust health. 
In his own constellation, causes also gives good health. 


In the constellation of the Sun, causes infective fevers and biliousness 
and loss of appetite. 


In the constellation of Saturn, causes chronicity of any existing 
diseases. 


In the constellation of Rahu, causes dysentery, abdominal colics and 
anoraxia. 


In the constellation of Mars, gives gall-stones and colicy pains. 


PUNARVASU The three padas are not considered 
good for sound health, and more so the 
2nd and 3rd. 

VISAKHA The 2nd pada gives sedentary habits. 


PURVA-BHADRAPADA The 3rd pada of this constellation makes 
one to suffer from sluggish liver, 
constipation and biliousness and 4th 
pada makes one liable to disease in 
kidney and bladder. 


VENUS - In the constellation of Ketu, causes venereal diseases, eye 
diseases, Leucorrhoea and Spermatorrhoea. 


22 Astrology and Diagnosis 


In the constellation of his own, gives good health, generally speaking, 
subject to vatios aspects. 


In the contellation of Mercury, causes Leucoderma, pigmentation 
skin, burning in micturation, gonorrhoea and cystitis. 


In the constellation of Jupiter, gives Jaundice, giddiness, and general 
weakness in Sex. 


In the constellation of Saturn, causes sexual diseases, perversion of 
Sex, tendency for sex-murders and foul sex-play. 


In the constellation of Rahu, makes woman or man nymphomaniac. 


In the constellation of Moon, is also supposed to cause sex-perversion. 
In the constellation of the Sun, causes eye diseases. 


BHARANI 2nd pada of Bharani is not considered condu- 
cive to good health. A person bom in this 
quarter becomes despondent and suffers from 
inferiority complex, thereby his health will be 
affected. 


PUVA-PHALGUNI 4th pada is supposed to make a person liable 
to heat boils and ulcers. 
PURVASHADHA 3rd pada gives sedentary habits. 


SATURN - In the constellation of Ketu, causes a person to suffer from 
epidemics dehydration due to loss of fluid. Windy troubles in intestine 
kinking of intestine, appendicitis and pituitary gland abnormalities. 


In the constellation of Venus, causes sex-diseases, bladder diseases, 
eye diseases and carbuncles. 


In the constellation of Mercury causes poor memory, despondency, 
lack of self confidence, nervous temperament and rheumatism. 


In the constellation of Moon, causes melancholia, fear of future, 
menstrual trouble and hard labour. 


In the constellation of Sun, causes eye diseases, diseases of blood and 
. Spleen, infective fevers Tuberculosis and bone diseases. 


In the constellation of Mars, causes eruptive fevers boils, tumors of 
various organs, blood diseases, abdominal colic etc. 


Bhavas, Planets 23 


In the constellation of Jupiter, causes laziness, sleeping, sickness, 
over-eating, high blood pressure, liver disease, jaundice, and glandular 


diseases. 


In his own constellation, in a friendly house gives robust health. 


Pushya. 1st and 2nd padas are not good. 1st pada makes 
a man hypersensitive and the 2nd pada renders a 
person liable to cold and cough. 

Swati Ist and 4th padas are not considered good for 
health. 

Uttra-Bhadrapada 1st and 2nd pada makes one irritable 


and wrathful in temperament, and 
suffering in mind due to his own 
hasty actions. They may suffer from 
attacks of Epilepsy also. 4th pada 
makes one mentally deficient and 
lazy. 


RAHU - In the constellation of Ketu, causes worst kind of accidents. 


Swati 


Satabhisha 


The 3rd and 4th padas of Aridra are also considered to 
be bad for health. A person bom in 3rd pada will 
generally be lazy and of unclean habits and the one 
bom in 4th pada will suffer due to his own evil actions 
and bad sexual habits. 


1st and 4th pada are considered not good for health. 


2nd pada makes one irritable and highly strong in 


temperament. The 3rd pada makes one billious. 


KETU - In Rahu's constellation, causes worst accidents. 


Moola 


1st pada makes a man melancholic and the 3rd pada is 
not good for health. 

Ist, 2nd and 4th padas are not good for health. 1st pada 
will give over-indulgence in sex, and 4th pada gives 
indulgence in eating, thereby causing ill-health in 
some form or other. 


1st and 2nd padas are not conducive to strong health, 
though they fare well under worst circumstances. 


CHAPTER 4 
GENERAL HEALTH 


When lagna, Sun, Moon and Sixth house are well fortified by 
situation, conjunction and aspect of benefics, good health will be 
maintained. More the malefics influence the above planets and houses, 
the more the health will defoliate, sufferings will increase and the body 
will be the seat of diseases. 


If the lord of lagna be a malefic and be in lagna or in Kendra or be in 
conjunction with Moon or be in Navamsa of Moon, the diseases come to 
appearance. If the lord of lagna, being a malefic, be weak and debilitated 
or be combusted or be eclipsed or be defeated in a planetary war or be 
aspected by lord of evil house (dusthana i.e. lord of sixth, eighth or twelfth 
houses), it produces diseases and sufferings. If the lord of lagna be weak 
and be in a Kendra or trikona house (i.e. first, fourth, seventh or tenth 
house or fifth or ninth house) and lagna be afflicted by malefic or by lord 
of evil house, diseases and weak health will be the result. If the lord of 
lagna be in evil house (Dusthana) with lord of sixth house, the effect is 
same. If lord of the house, where lord of lagna is situated, be in dusthana, 
it brings diseases and weak health. If lord of the house, where lord of lagna 
is situated, be weak or be combusted eclipsed or defeated in planetary 
war, or be in the house of an enemy or be either in third, sixth or eleventh 
house, it result into diseases and bad health. Moon in similar position 
under similar circumstances produces the same result. 


When Saturn and Mars be in sixth house, being aspected by Sun and 
Rahu, coupled with weak lord of lagna, the conditions cause lingering 
disease. Saturn and Rahu in the sixth house also give rise to lingering 
diseases and bad health. When Saturn and Mars occupy second house and 
are related with the diseases-inflicting planet or house, they produce 
various kinds of diseases. When Mars and Venus are in the ninth house 
or Sun and Saturn are in similar position, bad health and diseases may 
result. 


Jupiter and Saturn in the ninth house also produce the same result. 
Afflicted Venus in the 12th house, Ketu in lagna and Saturn in lagna 
or in seventh house are responsible for bad health and diseases. 


J have already mentioned that the planets have different Karkatwas 


General Hello 25 


(ralership) and they have control over different parts of the body. Their 
strength, weakness, afflicition, situation etc play prominent part in 
growth and development of the body under their respective influence. 
When Sun is weak and afflicted, it causes ill-health, blindness, heart 
diseases, fractures of bones, palpitation of Heart,etc. When Moon is weak 
and afflicted, it causes Hysteria, fits, insanity, Melancholy, menstrual 
disorders, poisoning of Blood etc. When Mars is strong but afflicted, it 
gives richness in Blood, high blood pressure apoplexy, accidents, irrita- 
tions, skin diseases, inflammation of inner organs etc. A weak and 
afflicted Mars causes blood diseases, Low blood pressure, bloodless ness, 
tumours, boils, ulcers, diseases of marrow etc. When Mercury is weak 
and afflicted it causes nervous break down, Nerve diseases, epilepsy, 
paralysis, fever, ulcers, defect in digestive organs etc. When Venus is 
weak and afflicted it causes venereal diseases, diseases in private parts, 
diabetes, urine troubles, disorders of generative organs, loss of luster in 
the body, eye trouble etc. When Jupiter is weak and afflicted, it causes 
trouble from spleen, liver, kidney, diseases from thirst, ear troubles etc. 
When Saturn is weak and afflicted it causes trouble from bones, diseases 
& loss of limbs, skin diseases, mental trouble, rheumatic diseases pain 
etc. When Rahu is weak and afflicted, it causes breathing difficulties, 
leprosy, ulcers, diseases from poison etc. When Ketu is weak and 
afflicted, it causes pain in body, diseases from hunger and poison and all 
long and lingering diseases and also diseases from unknown causes. 


Astrongand unafflicted Sun is anasset in a horoscope. It endows good 
health, strong and developed body and it also fights against diseases. A 
strong and unafflicted Moon gives a sound mind, good thinking power, 
mental strength to overcome and fight difficulties etc. Strong Sun and 
Moon in a horoscope give much resistance to ill health and diseases. 


Kanya and Meena rashis are two sensitive signs of the Zodiac and any 
affliction to these houses causes bad health, diseases and sufferings. 
While judging a horoscope, these two houses should not be overlooked. 


One must be careful in predicting diseases, Mere combinations of 
diseases in any house may not produce the disease at all, as benefic 
influences over the combinations of diseases and over the houses of 
diseases may nullify the malefic influence. Even when a disease is 
suggested from any house from lagna and ifthe same place be well 
fortified from Moon, Sun and Navamsa Lagna the disease may not occur 
at all. Even when there is no indication of disease from lagna, it mav 


26 Astrology and Diagnosis 


appear if the house connecting the disease be afflicted from Sun, Moon 
or Navamsa lagna. In such cases one must take the strength of the 
combinations of diseases and also the strength of the houses and planets 
which are cancelling the disease. The stronger side will give the result. 
The disease is sure to come when two or more places in respect of same 
house from lagna, Sun, Moon, Navamsa lagna or in natural Zodiac are 
afflicted. 


Other points must be taken into consideration; these are natures and 
qualities of the planets causing the disease and the house where the 
disease is formed, whether the planets are benefics or malefics, whether 
the planets are friends, enemies or neutrals to the house-lords. The results 
in case of a benefic causing disease will certainly be not the same as in 
the case of an enemy or neutral planet. 


The effect will vary according to the natures and qualities of the 
planets. A benefic or a friendly planet may not give rise to any disease. 


Take the question of Saturn in case of Vrishabha lagna and Simha 
lagna. For Vrishabha lagna, it is a Yoga-Karka being lord of ninth and 
tenth houses and hence, is a benefic planet for that lagna; while for Simha 
lagna, Saturn is lord of sixth and seventh houses and thus is a malefic and 
maraka for that lagna. In these two cases, results will much vary. 


Another point is to be taken into consideration - whether the ruler of 
a house is a natural benefic or malefic. Benefic will do less harm than 
malefic. 


Take the case of Sixth lord in Tula and Simha lagna. Jupiter is sixth 
lord for Tula lagna and Saturn is sixth lord for Simha lagna. Jupiter is a 
natural benefic while Saturn is a natural malefic. Certainly cases of these 
two lagnas, Saturn will do more harm than Jupiter in the matters 
connecting sixth house. 


The relation between two planets are also to be considered. Take the 
case of Mars aspecting Sun from his seventh house. Sun is natural friend 
of Mars. By situation he is an enemy being in seventh house of Mars. The 
combined relation, being friend in one case and enemy in other case, 
makes them neutral. Suppose Mars is aspecting Sun from tenth house. 
Here again Sun is natural friend of Mars in one case and temporal friend 
in the other case, so their combined results make them intimate friend 
{ATI-MITRA) to each other. The result in both cases cannot be same. 


General Helth 7 


The aspects and conjunctions are also to be taken into consideration. 
Say , Saturn is in opposition to Moon - Moon being situated in 16 degrees 
in Makara rashi and Saturn in 18 degrees Karka rashi in one case and in 
other case Moon in 16 degrees Makara rashi and Saturn is in 24 degrees 
Karka rashi. 


The opposition in one case is 2 degrees away from 180 degrees and 
in other case 8 degrees away. The results cannot be the same in both the 
cases. The degrees of affliction of mind, morbidness, malancholy mood 
ete will be much more in the first case where Moon is 2 degrees away. 


THE POSITION OF THE DISEASE 


The position of the disease - inflicting planet in relation to bhava is 
also to be taken into consideration. Suppose Rahu is in eighth house in 16 
degrees ARIES and bhava Madhya (Bhavasphuta) of the eighth house in 
19 degrees ARIES and in another case, Rahu is in eighth house in 26 
degrees in ARIES under same bhava madhya and in the other case, it is 
7 degrees away, Results in both cases cannot be same. The planet which 
is more nearer to bhava madhya will have more effect. While judging 
diseases, all these" points are to be considered to arrive at a correct 
decision. 


THE FUNCTIONS OF PLANETS 


The functions of planets have been assigned to some specific 
periods and they are as follows :- 


Saturn One year. 

Sun Half a year. 

Mercury Two monthé. 

Jupiter One month. 

Venus Half a month. 

Mars One day. 

Moon One muhurta (48 seconds). 


DURATION OF DISEASE 


As regards the duration of any disease, the above periods are to be 


28 Astrology and Diagnosis 


taken into account and the long or short periodicity can be ascertained by 
applying the above principle. Suppose Saturn is the causing planet for a 
disease. We can say it will linger for a long time, While if the Mars or 
Moon be the causing planet: the duration of the disease will be of shorter 
period though the disease will not run exactly to the same extent of period 
mentioned. The planets are effective in certain portions of a sign and the 
result will be felt when the planet enters that portions in transit. They are 
effective accordingly: 


Sun. In 1 to 10 degrees of a Sign. 
Moon. In 2Ist to 30th of a Sign. 
Mars. In | to 10 degree of a Sign. 
Mercury. During all time. 

Jupiter. In 11 to 20 degrees of a Sign. 
Venus. In I1 to 20 degrees of a Sign. 
Saturn. In 21 to 30 degrees ofa Sign. 
Rahu. During all time. 

Ketu. During all time. 


THE PLANETS IN TRANSIT GIVE RISE TO DISEASE 


The planets in transit (gochara) give rise to diseases when malefically 
afflicting the natal planets and bhavas. The powerful malefics in such 
conditions can produce diseases even without any combinations for 
diseases in natal chart. Say, when Lagna, Sun, Moon, Sixth house, Sixth 
lord etc are afflicted, diseases may result. The nature and quality of the 
disease will be determined by the nature and qualities of the houses and 
planets afflicted and afflicting. If at the same time, the native passes 
through Maraka dasha and Antardasha, the disease may be severe while 
under benefic dasha and antradasha, the disease may not occur at all or 
if occurs, it will be very mild. 


When Mercury is in an advantageous position with high strength it can 
counteract the malefic influence of Rahu. Saturn in similar position can 
counteract the evil influence of both Mercury and Rahu. Mars in a similar 
strength can nullify the evil effect of Mercury, Rahu and Saturn. Venus, 
in a similar way counteracts the evil forces of all the above fours planets. 


General Helth 29 


Jupiter when strong and in an advantageous position can nullify evil 
effect of Mercury, Rahu, Saturn, Mars and Venus. Moon in a similar 
strength and position counteracts all the above sixth planets and an 
advantageous Sun can nullify the evil effects of all the planets. 


CHAPTER 5 
SIGNS, PLANETS, STARS AND THE 
HUMAN BODY 


PARTS AND ORGANS OF HUMAN BODY ASSIGNED TO THE 
TWELVE SIGNS 


ARIES:- Head and face (2) Brain and (3) Bones of head and face. 


TAURUS:- Neck, (2) Gullet, Lary and Cerebellum and (3) Bones of the 
neck, 


GEMINI:- Shoulders and hands, (2) Lungs, blood and breath and (3) 
Shoulder blades and bones of arms. 


CANCER:- Breasts and Chest, (2) Stomach and Digestive organs and (3) 
Bones of the chest and ribs. 


LEO:- Spine and back, (2) Heart and (3) Bones of the back. 


VIRGO:- Abdominal and umbilical regions, (2) Bowels, Intestines and 
Liver and (3) Bones of the back. 


LIBRA:- Lumbar region and skin, (2) Kidneys and (3) Bones of the 
Lumbar region. 


SCORPIO:- Generative organs and anus, (2) Bladder and (3) Bones of 
Public area. 


SAGITTARIUS:- Hip and Thighs, (2) Veins and arteries and (3) Bones 
of thighs. 


CAPRICORN:-Knees and Hams, (2) Bones and Joints and (3) Knee 
Caps and joints. 


AQUARIUS:- Ankles and feet, (2) Circulatory system and (3) Bones and 
ankles. 


PISCES:- Feet and Toes , (2) Lymphatic system and (3) Bones of the feet. 


According to another opinion, the twelve signs in order, represent 
Head, Face, Shoulders, Hands, Chest, Breasts, Stomach, Arm-pits, anus, 


Generative Organs, Thighs and Legs. Shri Mantreshwara and Venkatesha 
give the following parts of human frame to the various signs. 


Signs, Planets 31 


Aries-Head; Taurus-Face; Gemini-Shoulders; Cancer-Heart, the part 
of the body above the stomach and below the neck; Leo-Stomach upto 
navel; Virgo-Waist; Libra-The part of the body between navel and the 
generative organs; Scorpio-Generative organs; Sagittarius-Thighs; Cap- 
ricorn-knees; Aquarius-Calves, Pisces-Feet. The owners of the respec- 
tive signs are said to rule over the parts of the body shown against each 
e.g. Jupiter gets the karkatwa of feet. The conditions of the different 
organs is to be decided by the signs and planets representing them. 


PARTS OFTHE BODY RULED BY THE SEVEN PLANETS 
SUN:- Heart, Blood, Brain, the right eye of males and left eye of females. 


MOON :- Breasts, Intestines, Lymph, Left eye of males and right eye of 
females. 


MARS :- Nose, forehead, Digestive secretions and sinews. 
MERCURY :- Veins, Lungs, Tongue, Arms, Mouth, hais and nerves. 
JUPITER :- Semen, right ear, Liver and Pleura. 

VENUS :- Gullet, Chain, Cheeks, colour, Navel, Left ear. 

SATURN :- Joints, Bones, teeth, Knees, Phlegm and spleen. 


The following difference of opinion are worth examining : 


Planets Different views regarding rulership of the parts of 
the human body. 


Sun, Bones ofchin Bones of chin Stomach Stomach 


- 


knee bones, navel 


Moon. Bones of chin Chest,cheeks,ankles Heart Chest. 


Mars. Eyes. Hands,eyes,Anus. Head. Head 
Mercury. Face, Thighs, Hip Hands. Hands. 
Jupiter. Ears. Ears. * Hip-waist Below 

navel 


Venus. Nose. Nose. Face. Face. 


3Z Astrology and Diagnosis 


Saturn. Head. Generative organs Thighs. Thighs. 
Head, Neck. 

Rahu > - Feet. Neck. 

Ketu - - : Feet 


Without entering into a discussion on the above different opinions, I 
mayremarkthattheopinionlisted first willhold good when the ascendant 
falls in the four signs counting from the one just left by the Sun. When the 
next four signs in order fall as the rising sign, parts of the body below the 
waist are to be considered and when the last four signs become the 
Ascendant, the middle portion of the body is to be thought of. 


DIVISION OF THE HUMAN BODY BASED ON THE 
DREKKANA OF THE RISING SIGN 


3. Division of the human body based on the Drekkana of the rising 


sign, has been found to indicate more accurate results. < 
Bhava Ascendant inI Ascendant in II Ascendant in III 
Drekkana Drekkana Drekkana 

1. Head Neck. Portion between 
Navel and genera- 
tive organs 
(pelvis). 

2. Right Eye Right shoulder Right side of 
generative organs 
and anus. 

3. Right Ear Right hands Right testicle. 

4. Right side of Right side Right thigh. 

nose 
5. Right cheek Right chest. Right knee. 
6. Right side of Chin Right side of Right ankle. 


stomach. 


Signs, Planets 33 


7. Face Navel Feet. 
8. Left side of Chin Left side of Left ankle. 
stomach 

9. Left cheek Left chest Left knee. 

10. Left side of Nose Left side Left thigh. 

11. Left Ear Left hand Left testicle. 

12. Left eye Left shoulder. Left side of 
generative organs 
and anus. 


The degrees yet to be covered by the Ascendant in the sign or right 
side while other portion is the left side of the head. The right and left sides 
of the neck, pelvis, face, navel and feet are to be known following this 
principle. The twelfth bhava from the Ascendant represents the left eye, 
the second bhava the right eye, 11th bhava the left ear and the third bhava 
the right ear, the 10th bhava the left side of nose, the 4th bhava the right 
side of the nose, 9th bhava left cheek, the 5th bhava right cheek, the 8th 
bhava the left Chin and the 6th bhava the right Chin. In the 7th bhava the 
navamsa corresponding to the Ascendant and other bhavas represent the 
right and left sides of the face. When the Ascendant falls in the second 
Drekkana the different bhavas fromthe Ascendant, show the right and left 
sides of the part of the body from the neck to the navel as follows :- 


The degrees covered by the Ascendant in the rising sign indicate the 
left side of the neck while the degree yet to be traversed in the sign show 
the right side of the neck. The 12th bhava shows the left shoulder, the 2nd 
bhava the right shouldér, 11thbhava the left hand, the 3rd bhava the right 
hand, 10th bhava the left side, the 4th bhava the right side, 9th bhava the 
left side of the heart, the 5th bhava the right side of the heart, 8th bhava 
the left side of the stomach and the 6th bhava the right side of stomach. 
In the 7th bhava the corresponding amsakas of the Ascendant and other 
bhavas indicate the right and left side of the naval. 


When the rising sign is in the 3rd Drekkana the left and right sides of 
the part of the body below the navel are indicated as shown below :- 


The degrees covered by the Ascendant in the sign indicate the left side 
of the pelvis, while the other portion of the sign shows the right side of 


34 Astrology and Diagnosis 


the pelvis. The 12th bhava shows the left side of the generative organ and 
anus the second bhava their right side, the 1lthbhava the left testicle, the 
3rd bhava the right testicle, 10th bhava the left thigh, the 4th bhava the 
right thigh, 9th bhava the left knee, the 5th bhava the right knee, the 8th 
bhava left calf and the 6th bhava the right calf. The amsakas correspond- 
ing to the ascendant and other bhavas indicate the left and right feet in the 
7th bhava. Afflictions of these bhavas and of the planets posited therein 
show diseases in the respective portions of the body. 


4. Aries, Leo and Sagittarius rule over Vitality, Taurus Virgo and 
Capricorn control bones and flesh; Gemini, Libra and Aquarius represent 
breath while Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces get blood as their portfolio. 


STARS AND THE DIVISION OF THE BODY 


The nine constellation from Krittika to Poorvaphalguni represent in 
order Head, forehead, brows, eyes, nose, ears, lips, chin and fingers. 
Uttarphalguni to poorvashadha rule over neck, chest, breast, belly, waist, 
hip, generative organ, testicles and the portion below testicles. The 
constellations to Uttarashadha to Bharani respectively control knees, 
calves, pelvis, extermity of anus, back portion of thighs, heels, front ends 
of feet, ankles and toes. 


The degrees of the ascendant indicate the star. 
VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE PARTS 


The parts of the zodiac from the rising sign to the 6th bhava is invisible 
while the other half from the 7th to the 12th bhava is Visible. If malefics 
or afflicted benefic or planets responsible forcausingdiseases are posited 
in the visible part of the zodiac it is to be presumed that the ailments could 
be seenonthe body. If the disease-dealing planets are in the invisible part 
of the Zodiac, it is to be known that the native is ailing from pains caused 
by a disease which cannot be discerned by the physical eye. 


¢ 7, Diseases attack the body (or accidents occur) orshow symptoms of 
increase when the Moon transit the 8th or 12th bhava from the sign 
occupied by the Moon in the native'’s horoscope and when the Moon 
occupies the 3rd, 5th orthe 7th constellation from the asterism at the time 


Signs, Planets 35 


THE FIVE ELEMENTS AND THREE HUMOURS 


The planets are said to be lords of the five primary elements file, earth, 
ether, water and air. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturnru Je over 
the elements in the order mentioned above. Sun with the qualities «f fire 
is also the Karaka of the fire element while the Moon partaking charac- 
teristics of water is the Karaka of water. Movements of these planets with 
the qualities of the elements inherent in them bring about changes in 
everything on earth. Seasonal changes are experienced and nature 
undergoes periodical transformation. In human bodies, for that matter i: I 
all living beings, which are but combinations of the five rudimentary 
elements, changes are occuring continuously. When the equilibrium of 
five elements gets disturbed consequent to the movements of the planets 
ill-health results. When planets fall in unpleasant or weak position during 
their transitory movements or when the Dasha of weak, afflicted or 
malefic planet runs in a horoscope, derangement of elements denoted by 
such planets takes place causing various diseases. 


The native will have a predominance of the characteristics of the 
element of karaka planets of which is strongest in the horoscope. Natives 
with the earth element strongest in the chart will have a pleasant odour 
in their body (smell of camphor). They will be endowed with loud voice, 
astable mind,a mild pleasing temperament and a steady happy life. When 
the element water predominates, the native will be good looking and hard 
working with pleasing words. He may not be very intelligent. He will have 
a greater liking formilk, ghee, and other watery food. Having the qualities 
of fire elements strong, the native will have excessive hunger and they 
usually consume a large quantity of food. With strong but lean bodies they 
will be fickle winded, energetic, bold, forceful, proud and pushing. The 
element air when predominates, makes the native liberal, lean, short- 
tempered and careful in work. They like frequent changes or travels. 
Natives with ether strong in them get, round and flat faces, open mouths 
and lean limbs. They become learned in Arts and Sciences. When the 
element earth is disturbed flesh, skin, joints and hairs get affected. The 
excited element water brings about disorders in blood, urine, perspira- 
tion, semen and saliva. Disturbance to the element fire upsets hunger, 
thirst, sleep and the general bearing of a body. The element air when 
losses equilibrium bring about difficulties in the movements of the limbs 
while ether causes anger, sexuality, fear and signa of old age. 


36 Astrology and Diagnosis 


INDICATIONS BY AFFLICTED LORDS OF ELEMENTS 


The afflicted lords of elements indicate the following :- 


EARTH ; Swelling and cold (diseases arising from). 
WATER : Vomiting, Colic, Dysentery, Ulcers and Cold. 
FIRE : Perplexity, Fever and Whirling sensations. 
AIR : Rheumatic, troubles, Tremor and leanness. 
ETHER ; Fainting, etc, and Langour. 


The five Elements rule over the following parts of living beings :- 


EARTH : Bones, Skin, Flesh, Hairs, Veins (Nerves). 

WATER y : Blood, Semen, Saliva, Perspiration, Urine. 

FERE ! Hunger, Thirst, Indolence, Sleep, Vigour and 
Appearance. 

AIR : Rising Jumping, Running, Bending, Strength- 


ening and all bodily movements. 


ETHER : Love (Passion), Anger, Fear, Bashfulness 
(modesty), Insensibility. 


The body remains healthy when the three humours - Vata, Pitta and 
Kapha - keep equilibrium. The derange of any one of these gives rise to 
trouble. Though these three humours are spread out in the entire body 
their positions have been marked as follows :- 


The position of Vata is below the navel. Pitta rules the portion between 
the heart and the navel, and the Kapha reigns the breasts and the lungs. 
Diseases arising fromthe troubled state kapha will be prominent during 
childhood. The youthful and middle ages are mainly affectedby diseases 
arising fromthe derangement of Pitta. Old age is the period for PHeDnEnS 
attacks and other diseases caused from the disturbed Vata. 


These humours Vata, Pitta, and Kapha act at the end, middle and 
beginning of day and night. If days and nights are divided into three equal 
parts of four hours each the first four hours will be ruled by Kapha, the 
second by Pitta and the third by Vata. The first part of the food develops 

~ Kapha, the middle portion increases Pitta and the last portion aids the 
growth of Vata. Summer season (20th May to 19thJuly) tends to increase 


Signs, Planets 37 


Vata, rainy season (20th July to 19th September) deranges it while during 
Autumnal season (20th September to 19th November) it subsides. Pitta 
grows in rainy season, gets excited during Autumn and becomes settled 
in Hemanta season (20th November to 19th January). Kapha increases in 
Shishira (20th January to 19th March) season gets deranged during 
Vasanta (20th March to 19th May) and subsides the Grimshma (20th May 
to 19th July). The planets Venus, Mars, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and 
Saturn are said to be the lords of the six seasons from Vasanta onwards. 


Sun brings about diseases by the derangement of the humours bile and 
air (Pitta and Vata) and not of Pitta alone. Moon causes diseases arising 
from the excited Vata and Kapha (Air and Phelgm). A full Moon and the 
Moon posited in a Watery sign disturbs Kapha only. Mars gives rise to 
diseases arising from disturbed Pitta. 


Diseases due to the troubled state of all three humours are brought 
about the Mercury, Jupiter and Venus generate diseases of Vata and 
Kapha; Saturn causes diseases from the deranged Vata and Pitta. When 
Sun disturbs Pitta more than Vata, Saturn excites Vata to a greater extent 
than Pitta. Jupiter indicates more of Kapha and little of Vata. A strong 
Venus denotes troubles of Kapha while the weak Venus shows excitation 
of Vata. 


Predictions on diseases are to be made only after duly studying the age 
of the native, the type of the country he lives in and also the seasonal 
changes. 


CHAPTER 6 


GENETIC CODE TO HELP CURE INHERITED 
DISEASES 


Scientists are on the verge of a new era in medicine - the use of the 
genetic code to treat previously fatal inherited diseases. They are aiming 
at the treatment of a form of cooleys anaemia. This disease involves 
defects in the manufacture of haemoglobin, the blood protein that carries 
oxygen. 


If the successful experiments of rabbit cells work in humans, this will 
be the first application of the genetic code for the treatment of diseases. 
It will pro vide a mode) for the genetic treatment of a host of other diseases 
involving defects in the body's ability to make proteins. 


TRANSFER 


Doctors at the U.S. National Heart and Lung Institute in Bethesda, 
Maryland has reported their latest success - the discovery of the proteins 
that start the manufacture of haemoglobin. Other experiments by the 
group have shown that manipulating the amounts of different kinds of 
transfer ribonucleic acid (RNA) can control the rate that alpha and beta 
types of haemoglobin are produced in the blood. These two findings - 
solidly documented in animal cells - are the ways that the medical 
scientists hope to treat beta thalassemia, a type of cooley's anaemia 
caused when the blood fails to make enough beta haemoglobin. 


The diseases generally attacks children of Mediterranean or oriental 
descent and invariably kills them early in life. The only treatment 
available now is frequent transfusions of red blood cells. 


If the team's current work on the rabbit and human cells continues to 
prove successful doctors hope to begin treating children in American 
Hospitals soon by manipulating molecules - either through the transfer 
RNA or by the use of the proteins that start the production of haemoglobin. 


RESEARCH 


The team headed by Dr. W.French Anderson, a biochemist and 
Pediatrician started their research using immature red blood cells from 
rabbits, which contain only the genetic translation machinery and make 
only one product - Haemogoblin. The Scientists broke these cells down 


Genetic Code 39 


to their basic components. Through this, they discovered the proteins that 
can start the manufacture of haemoglobin - previously unknown in 
anything but bacteria. 


From there, the scientists repeated the experiments in immature 
human blood cells. The next step is to look at Cooley's anaemia cells in 
a test tube " and see if we can manipulate them the way we do the rabbits" 
said Dr. Anderson. 


HOW BLOOD BREATHES 


How does the blood breathe? The oxygen we breathe in is picked up 
by red blood cells, visible only under the microscope and carried to every 
living being cell in the body. 


In the cells the oxygen is given up and haemoglobin, the red coloured 
chemical which carry the oxygen is itself carries back in the red blood 
cells to the lungs to take on a fresh load of oxygen. 


So much has been known for years. But very recently painstaking 
research at Cambridge - by a team under Dr. Max Perots, Director of the 
Cambridge Research unit working on a Molecular Biology - has shown 
exactly how each single molecule of haemoglobin carries its oxygen; 
what makes it let go of it where it is needed and only there and even how 
the actual physical shape of the haemoglobin molecule changes as it 
yields up the vital cargo. 


CHAINS: Ever since 1910, scientists havebeen puzzled by the ability 
of haemoglobin to give up its oxygen only to the parts of the body which 
have been over-working and so are badly in need of new supplies - at our 
muscles are after a spell of hard work for example. 


Now thanks to the-culmination of 18 years’ work by his team on the 
precise three-dimensional structure of the haemoglobin molecule - we 
know exactly what happens. 


Whenever living cells have been working especially hard, carbon 
dioxide has collected because this gas is the waste product produced when 
cells burn up energy. A Carbon Dioxide dissolves in the fluid around the 
cells and turns it to acid. 


It is this extra acidity which makes the haemoglobin, circulating from 
the blood into the fluid-filled spaces around the cells, give up its oxygen. 
Acidity is the chemical trigger to give up oxygen trigger which is not 
present in parts of the body which haven't been depleting their oxygen 
reserves by over-work. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


DrPeruts has actually shown how the blood acidity makes the 
haemoglobin molecule change its shape as it rushes out its oxygen cargo. 


Each molecule magnified millions of times looks like a tangled ball 
of wool. But it is actually made up of four separate chains tangled together 
in what, infact is a carefully arranged and functional shape. 


When the haemoglobin molecule is carrying oxygen, the ends of the 
chain are free but as it gives up oxygen two of the chains link up into a 
circle the head of one joining on to the tail of the other and vice versa, 
while at the same time the otherpair of chains is also re-arranged ina more 
complex and equally important way. 


These changes push out the oxygen molecule and leave the 
haemoglobin ready to pick up more oxygen. 


It is almost incredible that having already made a precise three- 
dimensional model of haemoglobin with every atom in just the right 
place, Dr. Perots and his team has now gone to measure changes in that 
structure in which atoms move no more than one ten millionth of one 
millimeter from their original position. But this is not just a useless piece 
of technological brilliance. It has great thorough distant future applica- 
tion in medicine. 


RADIATION : For example, this work explains a puzzling illness, 
first discovered in Japan in 1968, called Haemoglobin Hiroshima. 
Patients suffering from Haemoglobin Hiroshima appear anaemic because 
they cannot deliver enough oxygen to oxygen starved parts of their body, 
although by tremendous over-production of red blood cells they manage 
partially to compensate for the condition. 


It is now clear that in such patients there is some slight defect in the 
structure of the haemoglobin molecules in many of the blood cells, which 
sops it being triggered properly by blood acidity. 


Like many other anaemias and other defects of haemoglobin, 
Haemoglobin Hiroshima is due to a defect in the genetic code, the DNA 
as it were which determines the structure of haemoglobin. At present such 
conditions are incurable; all that can be done is to try to eliminate them 
from the population by the genetic counselling, warning couples at risks 
of the danger to their children. 


But in the future, DrPeruts has himself said in an article in the British 
>. Magazine Nature, such defects might be repaired. 


Genetic Code 41 


One possibility is to implant genetic material, which would dictate the 
formation of the correct haemoglobin, directly into the spleen and bone- 
marrow where new red-blood cells carrying haemoglobin are made. 


This, said Dr.Peruts, is " imaginable but still utopian ". But he went 
onto say " a less remote possibility might be the replacement of the organ 
producing the abnormal Haemoglobin". His idea would be surgically to 
replace the patient's bone-marrow with some one else's bone marrow 
which would produce normal haemoglobin. 


This would be simpler than most transplant operations and once the 
problems if rejection are overcome, as they should be in a few years time, 
it should be fully practicable. 


Bone-marrow transplants have already been used to treat the victims 
of radiation sickness. 


WHY BLOOD TESTS ARE IMPORTANT 


Increasingly attempts are being made to change the art of medicine 
into a Science. The doctor's training enables him to recognise disease 
processes by the particular way an illness presents itself. Often a 
diagnostic suspicion can be converted into a certainty by recourse to 
relatively simple tests. The aim of many medical scientists is to devise an 
easy test - or series of tests - which when analysed would reveal not only 
whether one was ill, but also pinpoint what was wrong. This at present is 
very much a pipe dream. The embarassing fact is that for many tests a 
normal range of results has not been disputably established. 


EXTRACTION 
Often too, the significance of figures outside this normal range in an 
apparantly healthy individual is uncertain. Nevertheless, there is value in 
knowing for example just how anaemic a patient is or how well the liver 
is functioning. Laboratory tests have an impgrtant part to play in 
distinguishing between conditions that clinically appearsimilar. They are 
also useful in tracing the course of an illness over a period of time. 


To the layman all the laboratory tests must seem to be blood tests. In 
fact all body secretions can be subjected to cytological (ooking-at-the- 
cells) and chemical analysis. But examination of quite a small amount of 
blood can yield a vast quantity of information. 


Blood can be obtained pricking the lobe of the ear, fingertip or in a 
baby, the heel. The procedure is not quite painless but certainly no worse, 
than accidentally jabbing oneself with a needle. 


42 Astrology and Diagnosis 
Sometimes blood had to be drawn from a vein - usually one in the 
elbow crease. This too expertly done is relatively pain free. 


Looking to the blood with naked eye gives little information. Its 
texure and colour relate mainly to the ease or difficulty experienced in 
getting it. At this stage all human blood looks alike. 


The specimen of blood may be kept unclotted in specially treated 
bottles and tubes. Alternatively, the blood clot may be separated from the 
supernatant fluid (serum) on which investigations are carried through. 


What sort of tests can be done? There are innumerable practicable 
possibilities. The oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood (expressed as the 
haemoglobin concentration) determines the degree of anaemia. 


The red blood cells themselves are not always counted - perhaps just 
as well as there are approximately five million in each cubic millimeter. 
A stained thin smear of blood will tell an experienced technician the 
probable type of anaemia. 


FRAGILE 


Other cells in the blood are increased in number as a result of infection. 
The actual number, type and degree of maturity of these cells are a useful 
indication of the body's response to the infection. 


The fragility of red cells and the clotting ability of a total sample can 
also be determined. - information that is useful in treating variousbleeding 
disorders. 


A host of chemical estimations are frequently done on blood samples. 
We know that some substances are dealt with almost exclusively by 
certain tissues - perhaps even specific cells - in the body. 


Measuring the concentration of these chemicals provides valuable 
information as to the way organs are functioning. For example, it is the 
kidneys a that are responsible for the elimination of area (a breakdown 
product from proteins) in the body. 


Should both kidneys be functioning inadequately one would expect 
the level of urea in the blood to rise and this is in fact true. The converse 
however does not hold. A raised blood urea can be due to many different 
things - dehydration and liver disease among them. 


AUTOMATION 


The actual techniques of the qualitative and quantitative tests com- 
monly used are not difficult to the experienced technician. But they are 


Genetic Code 43 


time consuming Automation ca n bea great boon, for it means that several 
tests can be run through a machine simultaneously. 


Unfortunately, machines, like human beings, can make mistakes. 
With both it is only when results become incredible that faults are 
suspected. It is because laboratory tests are not infallible that most doctors 
will use these investigations to confirm their suspicions rather than make 
their diagnosis from these. 


The day is still far away when in times of sickness we shall consult a 
machine instead of a doctor. But even now it is frequently only the 
appropriate tests, coupled with doctors findings that can logically ensure 
that diagnosis and treatment, will be both accurate and effective. 


SHORT STATURE 


Short stature of a person can be due to several reasons. An assessment 
of the family growth pattern will show if there is any familial or hereditary 
short stature. 


Intra uterine growth retardation is a recognised factorregardingwhich 
very little is known. Inadequate growth due to inadequate provision of 
calories is very common. Lack of appetite due to emotional inhibition, 
food resistance, or any physical disease is also common cause of growth 
retardation. 


Depression in children may affect their growth probably via the 
anterior pitutary growth hormone. Specific protein deficiency may occur 
in cases of kwashiorkor and metabolic diseases. 


Malabsorption of protein and specific nutrients such as calcium, 
phosphorous, B-12 and folic acid has a definite effect on the linear growth 
rate. Chronic diarrhoea and chronic infections should be detected and 
suitably treated. 


Growth hormone deficiency causes short stature, as also thyroxine 
deficiency, corticosteroid excess, androgens and oestrogen excess which 
promote closure of the epiphysis. Nutrition of the cells may be affected 
by anaemia and cardiac disease. Chronic renal disease and hepatic disease 
cause growth retardation and when the disease is cured the child returns 
to his normal growth pattern. 


Ostrogen is however a growth promoting factorinadolescent but once 
the ephysis closes, there is no possibility of linear growth taking place. 
It is therefore essential to check any cause of short stature before the close 
of the epiphysis occurs, which follows soon after the growth spurt of 
adolescence. 


44 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Rapid growth takes place in the first two to three years of life and 
during adolescence. Any diseases during these periods will cause growth 
retardation which cannot be made up for at a later age. However one may 
try spinal extension exercises as they are found to help some. 


SHOCK THERAPY 


Electric shock therapy is used as a convulsing agent. It is easy to 
administer and does not distress the patient. The shock is administered 
through two metal electrodes usually placed at the sides of the head and 
held in place by a rubber band. The electric current will be of a 
predetermined voltage. Many psychiatric conditions like mania, depres- 
sion, schizophrenia, and psychoneurosis states-are treated by shock 
therapy. Depending on the person and the type of the disease, the shock 
may give rise to certain complications, the common one being loss of 
memory. But it is reversible. Muscle sprains and psychosis sometimes 
follow electroconvulsive therapy. 


SLEEP INDUCING DRUGS ARE HARMFUL 


All through the ages sleep has been regarded as essential to normal 
health. But in modern civilisation sleep is reduced to a commodity 
brought in a drug store. The drugs used however to be expelled fromthe 
system and therefore cause an added strain to the system. 


Medical scientists have now evolved a battery-operated curative 
sleep apparatus and sleep can now be had without the use of the drugs. 


The Dormed, as it is called, is manufactured by a German firm. Akind 
of eye bandage is worn by the patient and the apparatus transmits low 
frequency electric impulses to the central nervous system. With the 
pleasurable sense of warmth and relaxation the patient falls asleep when 
automatically the time clock switches it off without disturbing the patient. 


This portable apparatus can be Used in hospitals, clinics and even at 
home by the patient himself. It is anyway preferable to drugs and narcotics 
that do not produce real sleep. However, only six hours sleep is required 
for a normal healthy individual. 


FAT REDUCTION 
The tendency to get fat seems to affect members of the same family. 
Thus rating habits and heredity are important factors. 


The exact reason for this is not known. Usually a wide difference in 
the caloric need and food intake results in obesity. However in certain 


Genetic Code 45 


cases endocrinal disturbances or psychological factor play some part. It 
is proved beyond doubt, that expectation of life is much shorter in obese 
people and they are prone to suffer from diseases of the cardiovascular 
system, gall bladder and diabetes. Further general pains and aches, 
general tiredness and swelling are common in fat persons. 


Any obvious endocrinal disorder has to be treated. In the rest of the 
cases restriction on intake of calories all that is necessary. 


Keep a weekly weight record using one set of scales. A real desire to 
lose weight is important. Early and mild cases of diabetes and hyperten- 
sion can be controlled by weight reduction alone. Use saccharine for 
sweeting tea, etc. For the following articles no restriction in intake is 
necessary provided daily consumption of milk without cream does not 
exceed half a pint, lean meat, liver and poultry without adding sauce or 
flour, boiled fish, egg, vegetable, salad, fresh fruits, sour pickles, clear 
soup, soda, tea, coffee can be had in plenty. 


Articles to be omitted completely are butter, oils, sugar, jam, honey, 
sweets, dry fruits, nuts, pastry, toast, puddings, chocolate, cocoa, rice, 
cheese, cereals potatoes, etc. Two small pieces of bread are allowed daily. 
Ability to restrict food articles improves with training. 


The feeling of well being and participation in active life without 
disease should stimulate one into bringing the weight to normal standard. 


AVOID TEA AND COFFEE IN EXCESS 

Coffee and tea contain caffeine. Tea contains theophyline also. 
Theophyline is a diuretic and cardiac stimulent, while caffeine ia a 
stimulant of central nervous system. Caffeine produces stimulation of the 
psychic and sensory functions of the cerebrum. The effect is very mild. 
But in continuous mental fatigue it leads to an appreciable increase of 
mental alacrity. The person becomes alert. The brightening of the mind 
after a cup oftea is familiar. 


Tea and Coffee are comparatively innocuous addictions. In heavy 
drinkers of these stimulants increase nervousness and tremors may occur. 


Tea causes increased secretion of the gastric juice. So peptic ulcer 
patients may drink this preferably after a meal. 


ALCOHOLIC 
An ALCOHOLIC is one who cannot carry on day-to-day life without 
the consumption of alcohol. His face is blushed because of dilation of 
veins over the face. Tremors of lips and hands are common . Taste of spicy 
foods is increased. Weakness and numbness are noticed on the limbs. 
Even mental disorders appear in chronic alcoholics. For Neuritis Vitamin 
Bi with yeast tablets can be taken twice a weak. The patient should be 


\ 
46 Astrology and Diagnosis 


hospitalised. A bland diet with plenty of boiled vegetables is good. 
Sedatives may be required in the beginning. 


SWEATING 


Generalised sweating normally occurs after exhaustion, fear or when 
the weather is too warm. Young adults and obese persons are affected 
more. The sites normally affected are palms, soles, axilas and face. 
Involvement of hands will naturally interfere with the working capacity 
by soiling the paper and other material handled. The decomposed sweat 
often has an offensive odour and may colour the clothes because of the 
action of bacteria. Abromide mixture with belladina 10to 20 minims will 
help. 


The socks, if you use them, should be cotton material. Avoid woollen 
clothing. The axilary hair should be kept closely shaven and axilae should 
be cleaned with diluted aluminium acetate. 


The fluid intake should be small. Take bath twice a day and dust the 
whole body or the affected parts with boric acid and talc. Use salicyclic 
acid powder for feet. Avoid eating hot, spicy and oily food. 


PHYSICAL DEFORMITIES 


In Medical Astrology one has to see what medical effect, each herb 
and medicinal drug possesses and what planet has direct effect on such 
a herb or drug and whether it has such a single or combined effect. Certain 
d rugs or herbs are gathered when Moonpasses through Pushya Nakshatra 
which is a Saturn asterism as the Saturn is the healer in Astrology. 


The manner in which herbs are used as remedies is by sympathy or 
antipathy. In other words, ailments caused by a planet could be relieved 
by the application of herbs governed by the same planet. This is a 
sympathetic application. Likewise ailments caused by a planet can be 
relieved by herbs ruled by the planet which is antipathetic to it. For 
example, according to one school of thought ailments of Venus can be 
overcome by herbs of Mars; ailments of Saturn by the Sun, and ailments 
of Jupiter by herbs of Mercury. 


The most important part now is as to how to locate the nature of the 
disease and the part of the body which the disease likely to attack. 


The 6th house is mentioned as the house of disease, not only from the 
Ascendant but also from the natal Moon and from the house wherein the 
lord the Ascendant is situated. The 6th house also shows the person's 
health. 


Genetic Code AT 


The firstthing to do is to see whether the lord of the Ist house is strong 
or is stronger than the lord of the 6th house, he will be able to overcome 
diseases. 


One has also to see which particular house and its lord is weak. This 
can he ascertained by seeing whether a particular house is tenanted by a 
malefic or more than one malefic or/and whether its lord is assailed by 
conjunction or aspect of a malefic or malefics. In this way all the houses 
should be seen very carefully. Ifa house has association or its ruler is 
aspected by benefic planets, that house should not be considered to be 
weak. And attempts should be made to find out which particular house or 
its ruler is weak. That particular house is the seat of all diseases and if you 
can remedy the disease of that weak house and its lord, you have solved 
the problem. e.g. if the 5th house is susceptible to trouble or disease i.e. 
you have to care his liver and all the other problems so far as his disease 
is concemed will be solved. 


The head troubles are caused by Aries, throat troubles by Taurus and 
so on. This is amplified in Hindu Astrology. One must get confirmation 
from Chandra Lagna (Natal Moon) as well as the 6th house and the house 
in which the lord of the Ascendant is situated. Invariably it is seen that 
such a house counted from Aries is afflicted in some form or the other. 


If Mars is very weak, the person may suffer from insufficiency of the 
marrow and if the Sun is weak, he will have a fracture at some period of 
his life. 


CHAPTER 7 


DEFICIENCY OF MINERAL SALTS ACCORDING 
TO BIRTH - DATES 


The human body is the most wonderful and complicated machine in 
the world. Our body contains certain mineral salts in definite proportion. 
In good health, the balance of the body should be maintained. Investiga- 
tions have confirmed that a disturbance or deficiency of any of those 
mineral salts in the body (which are envisaged by the stellarstamp of one's 
horoscope) would result in sickness, the nature of the sickness depending 
upon the particular deficiency. Suppose a person is bom between 21st 
February and 20th March. At that time the Syana Sun will be in Pisces. 
His body will be deficient of mineral salt’ phosphate of iron ' and he is 
likely to suffer from fever, colds, grip, bronchitis, hay fever or anaemia. 
Persons bom when the Sun is in different sign of the zodiac are likely to 
suffer from diseases peculiarto the insufficiency of specific Mineral Salts 
as shown below. 


1. BIRTH DATE : 21st March to 20th April. Sun's sign (Sayana) Aries. 
Mineral salts : Phosphate of Potassium; Characteristics : Disorder of 
Nerves, Acute or chronic Neurasthenis conditions; Neuralgis, Sciatica, 
Headache, Asthma. 


A Nerve tonic KALI PHOS is indicated in loss of mental powers, 
poor memory, prostration, brain fog; paralysis of any part of the body, 
Nervous headache, debility, sleeplessness from Nervous causes. 


2. BIRTH DATE: 21st April to 20th May ; Sun's sign (sayana) Taurus. 
Mineral salts : Sulphate of Sodium; Characteristics :-Inactivity of the 
Liver, billiousness, brown coating of tongue, acute indigestion, vomiting, 
sick headache, grip jaundice, gout. 


3. BIRTH DATE : 21st May to 21st June : Sun's sign (sayana) Gemini. 
Mineral Salts : Chloride of Potassium. Characteristics : Catarrhal and 
inflammatory conditions with thick white discharge, colds, coughs, 
Bronchitis, sore throat, whooping cough, chronic rheumatism. 


4. BIRTH DATE : 21st June to 21st July. Sun's sign (sayana) Cancer.’ 
Mineral Salt : Fluoride of Calcium; Characteristics :- Glandular 

swellings, haemorrhoids, goitre, diabetes, blood vessels, poor circula- 

tion, verricose veins, condition known as “baglegs", stiffnessof the joints 
and muscles. 


Deficiency of Mineral 49 


5. BIRTH DATE : 22nd July to 23rd August : Sun's sign (sayana) Leo. 
Mineral Salt : Magnesia Phosphorica: Dominant characteristic: Acute 
short pains, cramps, convulsions, neuralgic pains, and headaches, spas- 
modic cough, whooping cough, hiccough, asthma, backache, sciatica, 
dyamononhoea. 


6. BIRTH DATE : 23rd August to 23rd September Sun's sign (sayana) 
Virgo. Mineral Salt: Sulphate of Potassium; Dominant characteristics : 
Nasal and Bronchial catarrh with yellow sticky discharges; bronchitis, 
sinus. 


7, BIRTH DATE: 23rd September to 23rd October: Sun's sign (sayana) 
Libra Mineral Salt: Phosphate of Sodium; Dominant characteristics . 
Stomach and Intestinal disturbances with sour and acid symptoms; 
indigestion, acidity, diarrhoea, rheumatism. 


8. BIRTH DATE: 23rd October to 22nd November: Sun's sign (sayana) 
Scorpio. Mineral Salt: Sulphate of Calcium; or Plaster of Police; Domi- 
nant characteristics , Suppressed stage of Skin, eruption diseases, ec- 
zema, boils, pimples, catarrhal conditions, bad breath. 


9. BIRTH DATE : 22nd November to 21st December; Sun's sign 
(sayana) Sagittarius. Mineral salt: Silica; Dominant characteristics : 
Deep seated suppressions, and ulcerations, boils, abscesses, styes, ca- 
tarrhal conditions, night sweats, foot sweats. 


Sagittarius relates to the higher mind and anatomically to hips and 
thighs. A deficiency of Silica in the connecting tissue between the 
cerebrum and cerebellum produces a mental condition in which thinking 
is difficult. Salica is man’s surgeon - the only absolute one - his physical 
spade and electrical insulator. As it is a non-conductor of electricity, its 
issue as insulation is-invaluable. 


10. BIRTH DATE : 21st December to 21st January: Sun's sign (sayana) 
Capricorn. Mineral Salt: Calcium Phosphate: Dominant Characteristics: 
Deficient development of children; rickets, emaciation; retarded teeth 
ing; hardened teeth and gums; anaemia, bleeding, pneumonia; typhoid 
fevers, epilepsy, neurasthenia, hysteria, eczema, urticaria, mucous, 
colitis, cirrhosis of liver, dropsy, kidney disease. 


11.BERTH DATE: 21st January to 20th February; Sun's sign (sayana) 
Aquarius. Mineral Salt : Sodium Chloride; Dominant characteristics : 
catarrhal conditions with watery secretions, cold and hay fever, night 
sweats. 


50 Astrology and Diagnosis 


12. BIRTH DATE : 20th February to 21st March : Sun's sign (sayana) 
Pisces. Mineral salt: Ferric Phosphate orPhosphate of Iron. FerrumPhos. 
Dominant characteristics : Early states of actual illness, fever, cold, grip, 
bronchitis, hay fever, anaemia. 


CHAPTER 8 


MAJOR AND SUB - PERIODS OF PLANETS - 
BRING OUT SERIOUS ILLNESS 


DASHA - BHUKTI 
The following Dashas will bring about Serious diseases :- 
1. The dasha of Rahu posited in the 8th bhava from the Moon. 
2. The dasha of the planet owning the 12th bhava from Saturn. 
3. The dasha of the Sun owning the 7th bhava from the Moon. 
4. The dasha of Mars as the owner of the sixth bhava from the Moon. 


5. The dasha of the lord of the sign occupied by Mandi when Mandi 
is posited in the 4th or the 10th bhava. 


6. The dasha of Venus when he owns the 12th bhava. 
7. The dasha of Saturn occurring as fourth dasha in order. 
8. Dashas of malefic planets posited in the ascendant and 4th bhavas. 


9. The major periods of Mars and Rahu owning the 5th and 7th 
asterism from the birth star. 


10. Jupiter's dasha when he owns the sixth asterism from the birth 
star. 


11.The Major and sub-periods of the 8th lord posited in the 6th, 8th 
or the 12th bhava. 


12. Dasha of Saturn posited in the ascendant or 8th bhava. 


13. The dashas and Apaharas of the planets owning Ist and 2nd, 
4th 5th,7th,8th 9th, and 12th bhavas. 


SUN :- Eye troubles, heart diseases, stomachic ailment, diseases of - 
teeth, woundsand bruises, accidents from the weapons, fire and waterand 
a sickness from deranged bile are indicated during the major period. Sun 


52 Astrology and Diagnosis 


posited in his inimical sign produces diseases of waist, neck and eyes and 
worm troubles while the debilitated Sun, during his dasha, destroys the 
eyes, gives rise to fever, leprosy and afflictions of the head. When the 
debilitation sign in which Sun is posited coincides with an unpleasant 
bhava, the effects of the dasha will be strongly marked. When Sun in the 
8th bhava weakens the physique in various ways during his dasha, Sunin 
the 6th points to afflictions of the face, teeth and eyes. 


SUN's Sub-period in Sun's Dasha:- Fever, diseases of heart, head 
and stomach, and ailment from excited biles. 


Sun in Moon:- Tuberculosis, fever, disorders of spleen, eye troubles 
and afflictions from deranged bile and air. 


Sun in Mars:- Dysentery, urinary diseases, fever, ailments of head 
and eyes, and accidents of different kinds. 


Sun in Rahu:- Fever, Dysentery, eye diseases of malignant type 
accident from fire, poison and weapons, piles, vomiting and pains in 
joints. 


Sun in Jupiter- (When Sun is posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th bhava) 
fever and diseases of the head. 


Sun in Saturn:- Troubles of the stomach, head, heart and eyes and 
fever from heat. 


Sun in Mercury:- Diseases from disturbed bile, illness of head and 
accidents from fire and weapons. 


Sun in Ketu:- Accidents from falling trees, fever, serious burns, 
rheumatic complaints, diseases of the head and illness arising from 
excitedKapha. 


Sun in Venus:- Diseases of the face, neck, eyes and stomach, fever, 
tuberculosis and cancer in chest. 


MOON.:- The dasha of a waning and weak Moon creates ailments of 
stomach, head and eyes and also fever. A weak Moon posited in Leo 
Navamsa indicates diseases of the stomach. Whenthe Moon in combi- 
nation with the malefic 1s wanirg and posited in the 3rd bhava, weakness 
of mind and body may be experienced. A debilitated Moon gives during 
his dasha, mental troubles’ and different diseases arising from cold. 


Major and Sub-Period 53 


Moon in Sun:- Cold, rheumatism, liver and urinary complaints 
leprosy, and tuberculosis. 


Moon in Moon:- General weakness and lethargy. 


Moon in Mars:- Diseases of spleen, and excited bile, sleeplessness 
and mental aberration. 


Moon in Rahu:- Accidents from water and weapons, cancer, ulcers, 
troubles from evil spirits, jaundice, white leprosy and urinary diseases. 


Moon in Jupiter- (When posited in the 6thor 12thbhava either from 
the ascendant in the horoscope or from the lords of the dasha, Moon) 
Urinary ailments, dysentery, fever and severe cold. 


Moon in Saturn:- Rheumatis and gaseous troubles, fever and dis- 
eases arising from cold. 


Moon in Mercury:- Headache, ailments of eyes and neck, itches, 
boils, leprosy, tuberculosis, fistula and accidents from animals. 


Moon in Ketu:- Diseases from acute cold, and mental debility. 


Moon in Venus:- Diseases of mouth, head, teeth, spleen, liver bones 
and nails, jaundice, rheumatism, mental troubles and ailments from the 
disturbed Vata and Pitta. 


MARS:- Vomiting, fainting, fever, ailments arising from excited bile 

and from excessive heat, impurity of blood and accidents from fire, 

poison and weapons marks the dasha period of an unfavourable Mars. 

Cuts wounds and bra ises are also brought about in various ways. A weak, 
afflicted and ill-posited Mars brings about Cancer during his dasha. 


Mars in Sun:- Troubles in thighs, diseases of the head and mind, 
dysentery, falling sickness, wounds and other diseases. 


Mars in Moon:- Impurity of blood and consequent ailments, de- 
ranged bile, fever, dysentery and accidents from fire and thieves. 


Mars in Mars:- Cuts, wounds, sickness from excessive heat, acci- 
dents from fire, fever boils, falling sickness, tuberculosis, bleeding, 
\tinary diseases and ailments of the head. 


Mars in Rahu:- Exposes the native to the virulent diseases of all 


34 Astrology and Diagnosis 

kinds, and accidents fromfire and weapons, diseases of the hear, neck and 
spleen, fever, itches and boils, tuberculosis, fainting, bleeding and 
urinary ailments. 


Mars in Jupiter:- Diseases of eyes, head and rectum and poisoning 
and troubles of the mind. 


Mars in Saturn:- Accidents from fire, poison and weapons, eye 
troubles, gastric and gas disorders, venereal diseases and fever. 


Mars in Mercury:- Diseases of the head, neck, eyes and stomach, 
colic, goutof acute pain, rheumatism and accidents from fire and thieves. 


Mars in Ketu:- Perplexity, diabetes, urinary, diseases, different kinds 
of physical ailments, and accidents from serpents, fire, thieves and 
enemies. 


Mars in Venus:- Jaundice, tuberculosis, diseases from impurity of 
blood and from deranged Vata (air) and Pitta (bile). 


MERCURY.:- Urinary troubles, rheumatism, white leprosy, acci- 
dents from fire and diseases arising from the deranged three humours are 
the general indications. 


Mercury in Sun:- Boils, itches, skin diseases of all kinds, leprosy, 
jaundice, pains in stomach and waist, fever and general debility. 


Mercury in Moon:- Fever and general weakness. 


Mercury in Mars:- Diseases of the neck, fever, accident from fire, 
weapons and thieves, eye troubles and heart diseases. In combination 
with Mars, Mercury tends to cause diseases of generative organs. 


Mercury in Rahu:- Rheumatic troubles and accidents from poison- 
ing. 


Mercury in Jupiter:- Derangement of all the three humours. The 
sub-period of Mercury aspected by Mars causes fever and dysentery. 
Other indications are eye diseases, thirst, wounds and ulcers. 


Mercury in Saturn:- Diseases arising from the deranged three 
humours and general debility. 


Mercury in Mercury:- Stomachic ailments, rheumatism and lean- 
ness. 


Mercury in Ketu:- Fever or cold is a certainty during the period. 


Major and Sub-Period 55 


Mercury in Venus:- Rheumatism, ailments from disturbed biles and 
phelgm and pneumonia. 


JUPITER:- Gives rise to swellings in different parts of the body, 
diseases of legs, eyes, ears and spleen, mental disorders, fainting and 
tuberculosis. 


Jupiter in Sun:- Diseases of the head, fever, ear troubles, tuberculosis 
or other diseases of an acute wasting nature. 


Jupiter in Moon:- Accidents from fire, urinary troubles, dysentery 
and fever due to cold. 


Jupiter in Mars:- Diseases of ears, ailments from excited Kapha, 
leprosy and troubles from evil spirits. 


Jupiter in Rahu:- Heart diseases and disorders of spleen. 


Jupiter with debilitated Navamsa causes itches, boils and other 
ailments during his dasha. His dasha, while posited in Leo, brings about 
falling of hairs, and when aspected by Mars indicates cuts and wounds. 
When posited in Taurus and Capricorn, Jupiter produces various 
diseases. 


Jupiter in Venus:- Various diseases. 
Jupiter in Saturn:- Severe skin diseases including leprosy. 


Jupiter in Mercury:- Poisoning, accidents from serpents, fever and 
feeling of excessive heat in the body. 


Jupiter in Ketu:- Accidents from fire, serpents and thieves, wounds 
and ulcers. 


VENUS:- The humours Vata and Kapha will be disturbed. The 
exalted Venus in his dasha gives headaches while the descending Venus 
causes disorders of spleen and urinary ailments. Posited in his inimical 
sign he produces eye diseases and dysentery and indigestion. When 
Venus occupies the sign of an equal planet or the 7th bhava, diabetes and 
diseases of the spleen and rectum are brought about. 


In the 8th house Venus gives accidents from fire and weapons. 


Venus in Sun:- Weakness of mind and body, gout, fever, diseases of 
the neck, head, stomach, and skin, dysentery, cough, catarrh; white 
leprosy is also indicated. 


56 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Venus in Moon:- Dullness of mind. 


Venus in Mars:- Troubles of the left eye and different kind of 
diseases. 


Venus in Rahu:- Diseases of the stomach and of the blood, urinary 
troubles, diabetes, rheumatism, sickness of head and spleen, extra- 
ordinary sexual disturbances, accidents from serpents and thieves. 


Venus in Jupiter.- Various ailments and accidents from poisoning 
are indicated by Venus in combination with Saturn, Mars or Mandi. 
Rheumatism, disorders of spleen and urinary troubles. 


Venus in Saturn:- Eye diseases, fever, ailments.in cheek, heart, teeth, 
and private parts, accidents in water and falls from trees. 


Venus in Mercury:- Diseases of the heart and stomach, fever and 
dysentery. 


Venus in Ketu:- Diseases of head, eyes and heart and mental troubles. 


Venus in Venus:- Wounds and ulcers, accidents from thieves, eye 
diseases and fever. 


SATURN:- All kinds of diseases are brought about. Rheumatism, 
dullness of mind, jaundice, gaseous troubles, from drunkenness and 
accidents are to be specially noted during Saturn's dasha. 


Descending Satum produces troubles of eyes and rectum. While in his 
inimical sign and when combined with malefics he gives accidents from 
the fire and thieves. The dasha of Saturn posited in the ascendant causes 
general debility, in the second bhava eye diseases, in the third headaches 
and eye troubles, in the fourth, sixth and twelfth accidents from, fire, 
poison; in the fifth mental aberration and in the seventh urinary ailments. 
While occupying Aries he gives rise to rheumatism and skin diseases; 
Cancer and Libra rheumatic ailments, and Scorpio and Aquarius wounds 
and ulcers. 


Saturn in Sun:- Rheumatism, fever, dysentery, gout, diseases of 
eyes, and disturbed phelgm, urinary and other wasting ailments. 


Saturn in Moon:- Accidents are strongly indicated. Also diseases of 
mixed nature, lunacy, leprosy and tuberculosis. 


Saturn in Mars:- Urinary troubles, rheumatism, colic, stomachic 


Major and Sub-Period 57 


pains and sufferings from excessive heat and excited biles. A debilitated 
Saturn gives rise to tuberculosis, falling sickness, rheumatism, small-pox 
and allied troubles. 


Saturn in Rahu:- Diseases of heart and spleen, impurity of blood, 
troubles caused by disturbed Vata, Pitta, wounds stomachic ailments and 
falls from trees of heights. 


Saturn in Jupiter- Fever, ulcers, eye diseases and diseases due to 
excessive heat. 


Saturn in Saturn:- Accidents from poison and weapons, bleeding 
disorders of spleen, dysentery and rheumatic ailments, skin diseases, 
sufferings in legs and hands - accidents from fire. 


Saturn in Mercury:- Mental aberration, diseases of Vata and Pitta, 
accidents from fire and poison. 


Saturn in Ketu: - Feeling heat in all parts of the body, lethargy, fever, 
diseases from excited Vata and Pitta and accidents of all kinds. 


Saturn in Venus:- Lethargy, accidents from weapons, fire and 
thieves. 


RAHU:- Rahu's dasha brings about protracted sufferings raising 
strong doubts regarding longevity. Ailing in all pa rts of the body, leprosy, 
fever, troubles of eyes and stomach poisoning, mental aberration and 
accidents from animals and weapons and water are general indications. 


When posited in the ascendant: fourth or debilitated Rahu in his dasha 
produces mental troubles and accidents from poison, fire, thieves and 
enemies. In combination with malefics he causes diabetes, asthma, 
tuberculosis and urinary diseases. In the fifth bhava he gives rise to mental 
aberration, in the sixth diseases of spleen, jaundice, tuberculosis and 
accident from fire and weapons, in the seventh poisoning from snakes and 
in the tenth bhava with malefic aspects suffering from thieves and fire. 


Rahu in Sun:- Diseases of head and eyes and spleen, rheumatism, 
fever, tuberculosis, dysentery, poisoning and accidents from fire. 


Rahu in Moon:- Accidents from serpents and animals, mental 
dejection, rheumatism, jaundice, tuberculosis, urinary and venereal 
diseases. With aspect of 8th lord, Rahu causes poisoning from Scorpions. 


58 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Rahu in Mars :- Diseases of stomach, head and eyes, poisoning in 
various ways, ailments from cold, rheumatic troubles, tuberculosis and 
diseases from deranged Pitta, ulcers and skin diseases. 


Rahu in Rahu:- Troubles from poisoning, wounds, ulcers and 
diseases due to cold, falls from heights and accidents from water. 


Rahu in Jupiter.- Diseases of stomach, teeth, impurity of blood, 
fever and poisoning. 


Rahu in Saturn:- Diabetes, fever, dysentery, diseases of spleen, 
wounds from weapons, falls into pits, tanks or canals, dysentery of a 
serious nature may arise during the Apahara Rahu in Saturn's dasha when 
the combination of Moon and Venus or Mars and Venus occurs in the 8th 
bhava and when Mercury associated with the Sun. 


Rahu in Mercury:- Rheumatic troubles, indigestion, diseases of 
head and eyes, accidents from fire, water and poison. 


Rahu in Ketu:-Pneumonia, diseases of naval, cholic, poisoning, 
troubles from evil spirits, accidents from fire, serpents, enemies and 
thieves and wasting diseases. 


Rahu in Venus:- Fever, indigestion, mental giddiness, gout, feverand 
cold. 


KETU.:- Heart diseases, gout, fever diseases of bones, shivering, head 
and stomach troubles, dullness of mind, accidents form fire, poison, 
thieves and weapons are the general indications. In the seventh bhava 
Ketu produces urinary ailments, in the 8th asthma and respiratory organs 
and tuberculosis and in the 12th eye troubles. In the 2nd , 8th and 12th 
bhavas, Ketu when aspected by or associated with malefics causes white 
leprosy, tuberculosis and falling sickness. 


Ketu in Sun:- Diseases of feet, heck head, eyes, cheeks and teeth, 
urinary troubles and leprosy. In combination with Sun Ketu produces 
jaundice. 


Ketu in Moon:- Stomachic ailments, accidents from water, fire, 
poison and thieves, scorpion bites and troubles from evil spirits. 


Ketu in Mars: - Accidents from lightning, fire and weapons, diseases 
of eyes, teeth and head. Fever, dysentery leprosy and attacks from wild 
animals. 


Major and Sub-Period 59 


Ketu in Rahu:- Rheumatism, fever, mental aberration, poisoning by 
serpents, shivering, diseases of head and kidneys, accidents from fire and 
weapons. 


Ketu in Jupiter:- Diseases arisingfromdisturbed Vata and Pitta fever, 
dysentery, wounds from weapons and general debility. 


Ketu in Saturn:- Gas troubles, rheumatic disorders, ailments from 
impurity of blood, fever, dysentery, ulcer and wounds. 


Ketu in Mercury:- Shivering in the body, poisoning by scorpions 
accidents from vehicles, fire and thieves. 


Ketu in Ketu :- Ketu starts his dasha with burning sensation in the 
body fever, heart diseases, mental aberrations, small-pox and allied 
sufferings. 


Ketu in Venus:- Diabetes, diseases of the head, ulcers, poisoning 
from snakes, accidents from fire and thieves, mental aberrations, jaundice 
and general debility. 


During the dasha and apahara of malefic posited in the hot portions 
of the signs (Ushna-Shikha Nadi) severe headache and burning fever will 
result. 


Ashwani, Rohini, Punarvasa, Magha, Hasta, 7(1/2) ghatis after the 
first 7(1/2) ghatis Navamsa falling in Aries. 


Bharani, Mrigsira, Poorvaphalguni, Pushy a and Chitra-the last five 
ghatis - Navamsa falling Scorpio. 


Krittika, Aridra, Aslesha, Uttaraphalguni and Swati-21st to 30th 
Ghatis - Navamsa falling Capricorn. 


Vishakha, Moola, Sravana and Poorvabhadrapada - the first 8 ghatis- 
Navamsa falling in Aries. 


Anuradha, Poorvashadha, Dhanishtha and Uttarabhadrapada-the last 
8th ghatis - Navamsa falling in Scorpio. 


Jyestha, Uttarashadha, Shatabhisha and Revati-20th to 30th ghatis- 
Navamsa falling in Capricorn. 


Rahu and Ketu posited in the poisonous degree give rise to poisoning 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


in various ways, fever, small-pox and allied diseases during their dasha 
and apahara periods. 


While the poisonous degrees of Aries or Scorpio, Rahu Ketu bring 
small-pox. 


(Four ghatis eachafterthenumberofghatis shown here forconselltation 
from Krittika own wards form Poisonous period: 30, 40, 14, 11, 30, 20, 
32,30, 20, 18, 22, 20, 14, 14, 10, 14, 20, 24, 20 10, 10, 18, 16, 24, 30, 50, 
24). 


CHAPTER 9 


DISEASES INDICATED BY PLANETS OWNING OR 

OCCUPING THE SIXTH, EIGHTH AND TWELFTH 

BHAVAS OR BEING POSITED IN COMBINATION 
WITH THE LORDS OF THESE BHAVAS 


SUN:- Diseases due to excessive heat, fever, jaundice and pain inside 
the body-Sun in the 6th bhava produces diseases on waist, in the 8th, 
venereal and eye ailments, swelling of testicles and diabetes and in the 
12th feet and eye troubles. 


MOON:- Severe cold and swellings are the general indications. 
Moon posited in the 6th Bhava coinciding with its inimical or debilitation 
sign causes tuberculosis and innumerable other troubles. In the 8thbhava 
Moon brings about rheumatism, senility stomach pains, accidents from 
water troubles from bile and eye diseases while in the 12th he gives rise 
to illness of eyes. Moon, when posited in the twelfth bhava from the sign 
occupied by the Sun or in the 4th, 7th or [0th bhava counted from there 
(from the Sun's twelfth bhava) indicates vomiting. When posited in the 
sign occupied by the Sun or in the 4th, 7th, or 10th bhava reckoned from 
that sign, Moon causes purging. When the Moon falls in the 2nd bhava 
from the Sun or in the 4th, 7th or 10th bhava from there, thirst, stopage 
of urine and fecus are indicated. 


MARS:- Shows ulcers, diseases of blood, thirst, and all troubles 
arising from heat. When Mars aspects the 6th bhava the native suffers 
from fever and headache. When posited in the 6th bhava Mars brings 
about wounds or ulcers on waist, in the 8th venereal, eye diseases and 
rheumatism and in the 42th illness of eyes. 


MERCURY:- Mental abberration and fevers due to cold are general 
indications. When Mercury aspects the 6th bhava swellings and like 
diseases arise in arm-pits. While inthe 6th bhava Mercury causes diseases 
of feet and toes. 


JUPITER:- Mental derangement or dullness of mind and loss of 
appetite are brought about by Jupiter. 6th bhava, when aspected by Jupiter 
gives rise to piles and diseases of rectum. Jupiter inthe 8th bhava produces 
fever and dysentery. 


VENUS:- Indicates breathing difficulties, venereal diseases, fainting 
and thirst. Aspect of Venus in the 6th bhava generates small-pox and 
allied maladies. 


62 Astrology and Diagnosis 


SATURN:- Gives skin diseases, tastelessness and thirst. Saturn 
aspecting the 6th bhava produces rheumatic troubles and lameness. 
While occupying the 6th and 12th bhava, Saturn gives rise to illness of 
ears and waist and in the 8th, cancer, leprosy, diabetes and venereal 
diseases. 


RAHU:- Causes diseases on waist and pelvis area, when he aspects 
the 6th bhava troubles from poisoning arise. In the 8th bhava he makes 
the native suffer from venereal diseases, hydrocele, diabetes and dullness 
of mind while in the 12th he gives eye troubles and cuts wounds. 


Mars in the 6th bhava coinciding about gives illness of eyes. Mare in 
the sixth bhava coinciding with Cancer, kills the native by wounds 
received during quarrels and fights, Retro-grade Mercury in the sixth 
causes mental weakness. Jupiter in the sixth bhava, while in retrograde 
mostion causes physical troubles through enemies. Venus brings about 
ill-health only when the 6th bhava happens to be his debilitation sign, 
Saturnposited in the 6th bhava agreeing with his debilitation or inimical 
sign produces diseases arising from the deranged Vata. Moon in combi- 
nation with Mars falling in the 6th bhava points out mental derangement, 
while leprosy and blood pressure. Sun, Moon and Mars in the 6th bhava 
show dry itches and bloodlessness. The position of the 6th lord in the 
Ascendant gives rise to diseases and wounds if he is a malefic. The 
combination of the lord of the ascendant and the lord of the 6th bhava 
occurring in the 6th indicates poisoning from animals. Lords of the 6th 
and 8th bhavas posited together in the Ascendant in association with:- 


SUN:- Shows fever and itches: Moon - diseases from deranged Kapha 
and from water; Mars - Tumors, wounds and ulcers. Mercury-Jaundice 
and other ailments from bile; Venus-Venereal diseases; Saturn-Rheu- 
matic troubles and with Rahu or Ketu - diseases of Neck. 


The Sixth bhava falling inScorpio points to accidents fromsnakesand 
animals; in Sagittarius, wounds and troubles from weapons and quadru- 
peds, and in Aquarius to accidents in Water. The 12th bhava in:- 


Aries Gives rise to different ailments. 


Taurus Dysentery, indigestion, troubles fromderanged 
phelgm and accidents from animals. 


Gemini Venereal diseases, piles and diabetes. 


Disesses Indicated 63 


Cancer Poisoning from scorpions, spiders and ser- 
pents. 

Leo Poisoning from snakes and animals. 

Virgo Poisoning from food stuffs. 

Libra Falls, indigestion, stoppage of fecus. 

Scorpio Blood pressure and other diseases of blood. 

Sagittarius Venereal diseases, piles, wounds and cuts 


from horns, hoofs or weapons and accidents 
from aquatic creatures. 


Aquarius Rheumatic troubles, accidents from fire and 
weapon. 
Pisces Dysentery Jaundice and fever, blood pressure 


and accidents from water and poison. 


Weak Malefics in Kendras show that native's body is weak enough to 
attract all kinds of diseases. The lords of the 8th and 12th bhavas in 
combination with Mandi indicate attack from diseases. Mercury, Jupiter 
and Venus occupying their debilitation or inimical signs or if they are 
combust, give rise to ailments. When the 6th bhava and its lord are weak 
and afflicted by malefics and when Rahu and Saturn are in combination 
the native will have an ailing physique. 


A weak body is indicated by the Moon in association with a malefic 
posited in the sixth bhava. The position of malefic planets in a sign of 
Venus without any aspect of Mars, Jupiter or Venus shows an ailing body. 
A healthy body cannot be had by the native in whose chart Venus, Mars, 
Jupiter, Moon and Saturn occupy Pisces, Scorpio or Cancer. The native 
will be always grumbling of ill-health, if in his horoscope, Mars occupies 
the 4th bhava and Saturn the eighth while Sun, Mercury and Rahu fall in 
the fifth. Sun and Moon in Kendra point to a weak body. Moon with 
Navamsa in Capricorn or Aquarius aspected by Saturn or the Sun shows 
ill-health. SHAKATA YOGA - All planets posited inthe Ascendant and 
7th bhava-shows frequent illness. 


Perfect health is shown by the strong ascendant free from malefic 
touches, and the lord of the ascendant and the Moon in trines or squares 
with all points of strength and benefic connections. When Kendras and 
Trikonas are free from Malefic and the strong lord of the Ascendant and 
Jupiter are posited in Kendras the native enjoys long and healthy life. 


64 Astrology and Diagnosis 

Though a malefic in a Kendra has been said to indicate illness. Mars in 
the 7th bhava coinciding with his own sign, Hora or Drekkana gives 
perfect health. 


Moon, Mercury and Jupiter in a sign indicate good health. The 
Combination of Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus also shows a robust 
body. The same effect is produced by VAJRA YOGA (Moon, Mercury, 
Jupiter and Venus in the Ascendant and in the 7th bhava while Sun, Mars 
and Saturn in the 4th bhava and 10th). Mars in Leo aspected by Venus 
gives the body a lasting youthfulness. Jupiter and Mercury in the 
ascendant, and Saturn in the IIth bhava are indications of healthy body. 


If there is a malefic in combination with the-lord of the ascendant or 
with the lord of the eighth bhava or if there is a malefic fully aspecting! 
them, diseases indicated by that malefic may be stated, as shown here. 
Sun-gives rise to stomachic ailments, Moon-diseases of breasts, Mars- 
troubles of the head; Mercury or Jupiter-sickness of arms; Venus-facial 
diseases; Saturn-ailings on thighs and Rahu-sickness of lungs. 


PLANETS IN SIGNS AND ASPECTS 


SUN:- In Aries produces diseases of bile and blood. In Aries Scorpio 
or Leo aspected by Venus, Sun causes leprosy. * (Venus cannot aspect the 
Sun). 


In Taurus he points to ailments of eyes and face. While Sun in Taurus 
or Libra with the aspect or Saturn the body will be sickly. With the aspect 
of Mercury *(This is not possible) Sun in Gemini or Virgo give rise to eye 
troubles. Sunin Cancer with the aspect of Mars brings about tuberculosis 
and fistula, while with Saturn's aspect he causes various diseases fromthe 
deranged Vata and Kapha. In Leo with the aspect of Venus *(This not 
possible) he indicates piles. Sun in Scorpio shows proneness to accidents 
from fire, poison or weapons. Heart troubles are generated by Sun in 
Aquarius while in Pisces he gives piles and diseases of generative organs. 
Indolence is indicated by the Sun in Capricorn, 


MOON:- In Aries - Wounds or cuts on head, cataract in eyes. 
Aspected by Marsxye and teeth troubles. 


In Cancer-Mental aberration and diseases of eye-lids. 


In Leo - Diseases of Stomach, eyes and teeth. 


InLibra aspected by the Sun - Frequent ailments of all kinds. Aspected 
by Mars-eye troubles. 


Diseases Indicated 65 


In Scorpio - aspected by Saturn - Weak condition of the body to attract 
all kinds of diseases. 


In Capricorn and Pisces - a weak physique. 


MARS:- In Cancer - ailments of limbs, hydrocele and other diseases 
of the scrotum. Aspected by the Sun-diseases of bile. Aspected by Moon 
an ailing physique. 


In Scorpio accidents from fire, poison and weapons. 


In Sagittarius and Pisces accidents from conveyance and cuts and 
wounds. 


In Aries and Scorpio aspected by Moon wounds from weapons. 


MERCURY:- In Taurus or Libra aspected by Saturn - a weak body. 
In Gemini or Virgo aspected by Mars-accidents of all kinds. Sagittarius 
or Pisces aspected by the Sun *(This is not possible) - diabetes and urinary 
troubles. i 


JUPITER:- In Cancer aspected by Mars - wounds by weapons. 


VENUS IN CANCER: Indisposition owing to excessive use of 
Liquor in Scorpio - piles, fistula and diseases of generative organs. 
Capricorn - Heart Diseases. 


In Capricorn and Aquarius aspected by Mars-accidents of all kinds. 
Aquarius-different kinds of ailments. 


In Taurus of Libra aspected by Saturn - A sickly body. 


SATURN:- In Cancer, Scorpio, Capricorn and Aquarius indicates a 
sickly nature. In Sagittarius and Pisces - he gives rise to rhuematic 
ailments. 


PLANETS IN BHAVAS 


THE ASCENDANT: -The Sun gives rise to eye diseases. If the rising 
Sign is Aries eyes are affected by Cataract. Ifit is Leo, night blindness 
occurs. According to one author gas troubles, head diseases, urinary 
ailments, illness of the umblical region, and senility are caused by the Sun 
in the ascendant. These effects are to be determined only after duly taking 
into account the results arising from their position in signs and from their 
condition or state etc. When the Sun is in the ascendant coinciding with 
his exaltation sign the above mentioned effects will be seen only in a Very 
slight degree. Ascendant in the debilitation sign will give the evil effects 
in full measure. 


66 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Moon in the ascendant indicates a weak body subjected to diseases 
arising from Water and Rheumatism. A swelling and hardening of glands 
and vessels in ears and in the private parts are brought about. Mental 
weakness, diseases of the eyes and the tongue are also generated. 


These effects are indicated only when the ascendant with the Moon 
happens to be in signs other than Cancer, Taurus and Aries. 


Mars in the ascendant causes cuts and wounds in the head and the 
body. He marks the diseases of the stomach and teeth during childhood. 


Saturn in the ascendant indicates rheumatic troubles and other allied 
ailments when the ascendant does not coincides with his own or exaltation 
sign or a sign of Jupiter. Rahu and Ketu in the ascendant generate 
weakness of the left side and piercing headache. 


THE SECOND HOUSE:- Sun brings about facial diseases. In 
combination with eye troubles will be a certainty. Sun and Moon in 
association make the native blind at night. Moon in the second bhava 
gives distorted vision. Mars causes diseases of the eyes and nose. He also 
shows uneven teeth. Saturn indicates diseases of the face, teeth, eyes and 
a weak vision. Rahu and Ketu in the ascendant generate weakness of the 
left side and piercing headache. 


THE THIRD HOUSE:- Weakness and sickness of hands are shown 
by the Sun. Moon makes the native suffer from piles and rheumatic 
troubles. Mars also shows diseases of hands. Rahu indicates ear trouble. 
Indigestion is caused, by Jupiter. 


THE FOURTH HOUSE:- Sun points to heart diseases and trouble 
from the excited phelgm. Mars gives blows on the chest, Saturn makes 
the body sickly and pale. Rahu or Ketu in the fourth bhava creates severe 
itching sensations all over the body, fainting, rheumatic troubles, sto- 
machic pains, mental disorders, weakness and deadens the left side of the 
body partially or wholly. 


THE FIFTH HOUSE:- Troubles of the heart and gas, abdominal 
afflictions and mental aberration are indicated by the Sun. Saturn shows 
diseases of liver, spleen and of the abdomen and mental disorders, Rahu 
gives rise to diseases of the stomach and mind. 


THE SEVENTH HOUSE:- Sun, Moon and Saturn make the body 
sickly and weak. Sun gives rheumatic disturbances and gonorrhoea 
Swellings and the like on the waist are caused by the Moon. Mars produce 
troubles of the stomach bladder, pelvis and of hands. Abnormality in eyes 


67 
Disesses Indicated 


is indicated by Mercury. Venus generates rheumatism. Diseases of the 
navel region and of the ears are pointed out by Saturn. Asickly frame and 
disorders of the spleen are the indications given by Rahu. 


THE NINTH HOUSE:- Sun shows swellings in veins while Ketu 
indicates diseases of the eyes. 


THE TENTH HOUSE:- Mercury makes native suffer from eye 
diseases. Saturn and Rahu produce various kinds of ailments. 


THE ELEVENTH HOUSE:- While Ketu makes the eyes sickly, 
Saturn causes mental disorders and sickness of ears. 


MANDI. 


Mandi in the Ascendant and the second bhava produces headache and 
illness of the face. 


Third Bhava:- Cold, sore throat, tonsils and ulcers 
in the neck. 

Fourth Bhava:- Pain in the Heart. 

Fifth Bhava:- Stomachic troubles. 

Sixth Bhava:- Illness in the navel. 

Seventh Bhava:- Purulent inflammation of urethra or 
of testicles. 

Eighth Bhava: - 

and Ninth Bhava - Sickness of Thighs. 

Tenth Bhava:- Rheumatic pains in the knees. 

Eleventh Bhava:- Pains in the ankles. 

Twelfth Bhava:- Diseases of the feet. 


Mandi and Rahu posited together in the Ascendant or seventh bhava 
show troubles from food-poisoning. Mandi in combination with a strong 
malefic posited in the ascendant, fifth, eighth or ninth bhava gives rise to 
epileptic fits. Mental weakness or even lunacy may be predicted ifa 
strong malefic with Mandi occupies the seventh bhava. Mandi's combi- 
nation with a powerful malefic in the twelfth bhava also indicates mental 
aberration. Stomachic pain and gastric troubles are predicted when 
Mandi falls in the ascendant and twelfth bhava in association with the Sun 


68 Astrology and Diagnosis 


orthe Moon. For this yoga there should be malefic aspects on the Sun and 
Moon and no benefic connections. 


If Mars as the lord of the sign occupied by Mandi is posited in a 
Kendra, cuts, wounds, ulcers and jaundice occur. The Sun owning the 
bhava shows burning fever and mental debility while Saturn indicates 
rheumatic troubles and asthma. 


Moon and Mandi posited in the ascendant or in the 8th bhava 
coinciding with a Watery sign cause troubles frompoisonous food - stuffs, 
dysentery, vomiting, acute cold and small-pox. The same result is given 
by Rahu or Ketu posited in the ascendant or 8th bhava with Mandi when 
Moon is posited in a Watery sign, when Mandi falls in the ascendant, fifth, 
sixth or eighth bhava, diseases due to poisoning, jaundice and gastralgia 
are indicated. 


DASHAS (PLANETARY PERIODS) 


The Dasha periods of planets posited in their inimical or debilitation 
signs or having debilitated Navamsa, and those of planets owningthe 2nd, 
3rd, 6th, 7th, 8th and 12th bhavas and of weak and combust planets 
produce afflictions to the body and the mind. The dasha of a planet in 
whose trines are posited the lords of the 8th bhava & 12th bhavas or Rahu 
or Ketu, or whose 6th and 8th bhavas are occupied by malefics, debilitated 
or combust planets give rise to sufferings. 


When malefics are posited inthe fourth bhava fromaplanet, the dasha 
of that planet gives rise to diseases denoted by him. The afflicted lords 
of the ascendant, the 8th and 12th bhavas bring about distress in allways 
to the physique duringtheir dashas. The main trouble in the dasha of 2nd 
lord will be eye diseases, the Sth lord mental disorders and stomachic 
complaints, the 7th lord venereal diseases, and of the 11th lord ear 
sickness. During the dasha of the sixth lord all kinds of pains and accidents 
are indicated. The dasha periods of planets posited in combination with 
lords of these bhavas also upset the health. Fatal diseases arise during the 
dasha period of Venus or the Sun when they aspect cruel signs which 
coincide with the sixth, eighth or 12th bhavas having malefic planets in 
them. The sub-periods of planets posited in the sixth, eighth or the 12th 
bhavas fromthe lord of the dasha also produce ill-health. When the Moon 
is weak at the time of commencement of a dasha, diseases and sufferings 
are indicated during that period. The period of Saturn, a weak Moon or 
debilitated Sun shows fever and allied ailments. During the main and sub- 
periods of Moon and Mercury when they are closely associated in 


Disesses Indicated 69 


sign, leprosy, skin diseases, tuberculosis, fistula are brought about. The 

Major period of a debilitated Jupiter gives rise to swellings, tumors and 

troubles of spleenand ears. The dasha of Saturnderanges Vata and Kapha. 
A descending Saturn gives troubles of rectum and of eyes while Saturn 
in 7th bhava causes urinary diseases. Rheumatism is indicated by Saturn 
in Aries, Cancer and Libra during his period. Mercury posited in 
unfavourable bhavas produces fever, dysentery and diseases of genera- 

tive organs during his Dasha. In Aries, Virgo or Scorpio, Mercury causes 

wounds and ulcers, and Pisces eye troubles. 


CHAPTER 10 


BRAIN AM) NERVES 
DIAGNOSIS OF MENTAL DERANGEMENT 


Principles of Medical Astrology have correlated the various parts of 
the body from head to feet with Aries to Pisces. Aries governs diseases 
of the brain, derangement; hence is to be considered in detail in dealing 
with the nervous diseases, although the related parts also need to be 
considered. For the details of the diseases governed by various parts of 
the body and by different planets are given here in the early part of this 
book. Aries governs the head and so is the Ist house of a chart. The 
Ascendant also rules the head and the brain is seated there. Any affliction 
to the Ascendant will, of course, affect the brain. When in a horoscope 
Aries is affected, one naturally gets diseases of the head. 


Mental illness is caused by dull functioning of a part of the brain. If 
the brain behaves properly, intelligence is exhibited. Sanskrit word for 
intelligence is BUDDHI. Buddhi is derived from Budha and the planet 
Budha (Mercury) is so termed because he governs the Buddhi. If that 
planet is afflicted, he will cause mental illness. 


Intelligence is seated in the mind and derangement is also a product 
of the mind. This powerful faculty in human being, the mind, is 
responsible for creating wonders as well as disasters in the world and is 
tuled by the MOON. Mercury is the Son of the Moon and is called 
Soumya, the Moon being SOMA. Strangely the Moon is an enemy of 
Mercury. When Mercury joins the constellation of Rohini, the favourite 
star of the Moon, it is said to afflict Rohini, according to the Sages (of 
Valmiki Ramayana). Thus we have to examine the strength or otherwise 
of Mercury, and the Moon. Any affliction to Mercury, the planet ruling 
nervous system and intelligence will cause mental imbalance. Mercury 
seems to play a dominant role in shaping the intelligence. If Mercury is 
weak in some form or other, the native concerned will be dull-witted or 
brutally angry or insane. Aggressive nature is produced by Mars. There- 
fore, Mercury afflicted ina Mars house or afflicted by Mars will produce 
aggressive madness. Mercury governs the nerves and diseases like 
Neurasthenia, Headaches, Neuralgia, palpitation, delirium and related 
diseases. He also causes impediments in speech, brain, and nervous 
disorders when afflicted. \ 


Brain and Nerves 71 


When Aries is affected one naturally gets diseases of the head. First 
house and Mars has also to be examined. 


The judgement of mentality and of nervous reactions depend to a great 
extent on Mercury. The Moon refers to faulty reasoning and one can 
become fussy. Mercury is a diffusive and nervous. Mars is foolhardy, 
impatient, restless thoughtless and pugnacious. 


Mercury representing the Nervous system and Saturn indicating the 
Wind pressure in the nervous system are to be considered in all the 
nervous diseases. The Mind is a medium caused by the special cells of the 
brain. This medium will be affected no sooner there is imbalance in the 
nervous activity either due to physical defects in the nervous system or 
due to abnormal wind pressure. Thus the brain cells producing the mind 
medium will be rendered abnormal. If the affliction is caused by Saturn, 
the madness will take the form of melancholia and moodiness. 


Mercury represents the oscillation of the mind between the subjective 
and objective factors. Reason, discriminate thinking principles come 
under Mercury. He explains the conflict between the senses and the 
emotional urges. The Moon, as ruler of the mind in general, reveals the 
conflict between duty and selfinte rest. Astrong placement in a favourable 
house, exaltationetc of these two planets give mental health and stability. 
Another general clue is the dominance of the Sun or the Moon indicates 
whether the person will be more like the father or the mother. 


The 3rd house of Kalapurusha, Gemini, is again owned by Mercury. 
An analysis exactly as indicated in respect of the 6th house may bear fruit. 
It must be kept in mind that the 3rd is said to be the house ruling over 
bravery or nerves. Affliction in these two areas largely produce Neurotic 
diseases. The exact nature of these disturbances, their virulency and 
duration or otherwise can very well be estimated by careful calculation 
of Graha and Bhava Balas. It is necessary to determine whether affliction 
could manifest in a temporary nature or on a permanent basis. The 
probable period of manifestation may then be determined through the 
usual channels such as directional influences (Dasha, antar-dasha, transit 
influences within that). Appearance and disappearance of affliction, 
permanent or temporary and whether death is warranted due the disease, 
can be ascertained by a careful application of Dasha-Bhukti. 


Mental deficiency is related to the 3rd house. If Saturn is in the 3rd 
and is afflicted by its ruler, there is trouble. 


72 Astrology and Diagnosis 


The Sun in the 3rd refers to mental pursuits. The Moon in this place 
can explain the insufficient continuity of mental application, and the 
changeful ideas. The 3rd is the mental house. The other houses that relate 
to the mind are Ist, the 5th, the 9th. The higher mind is denoted by the 9th 
while the lower comes under the 3rd. The 6th has also reference to the 
mind. 


The 6th house represents diseases. The 6th house of Kalapurusha in 
Virgo whose owner is Mercury, who controls the Nerves. The position of 
the house, its strength or weakness are to be carefully studied. Virgo is a 
psychic sign. Then reference is to be made to the 6th house from Lagna 
and its lord in a similar manner. The position, strength or weakness of the 
Mercury has to be examined. 


The house of disease is the 6th. One has to consider the lord of the 6th 
and the lord of the navamsa occupied by the lord of the 6th. We have also 
to consider the relationship between the lord of the Ascendant and the 
ownerof the 6th. The mental peculiarities are to be known from the Moon. 
The weak Moon in the 12th with Saturn is likely to bring about Insanity. 
The 6th house refers to sickness. We have to consider the planet in this 
house, the sign on the cusp of the 6th, its lord and the aspects to it. The 
nature of the disease is to be determined by the 8th house, the planet in 
it, the aspect to it, its lord and the 22nd Drekkana which falls in it. 


The mind is the most powerful part of the human personality and it is 
ruled by the Moon. Mercury rules intelligence which is part of the mind. 
The 6th house rules ill-health of the body and of the mind. Afflictions to 
these significators by Mars, Rahu, Saturn or the Signs they occupy cause 
mental maladies. 


Mercury and Moon associated by conjunction or mutual aspect is 
generally not favourable. In every chart such a combination occurs, 
inevitably the native turns out to be a complex ridden person with feelings 
of guilt, insecurity and suspicion. Depending upon other malefics, 
influencing the Moon-Mercury set up, the mental malady may be mild 
and hardly noticeable or dangerously violent. The aspect of Jupiter is a 
great help in such cases and may even venear the mind from soaring 
criminal heights to soaring divine or intellectual heights. The Sun's 
affliction will give the madness of a pseudo-Sanyasi. The native thus 
afflicted will try to get into touch with the scriptures and philosophical 
works. This defect will be more pronounced if the affliction takes place 
in the 12th, Afflictions to Mercury will affect the nerves and through the 
nervous system the brain. Afflictions to the Moon on the other hand will 


Brain and Nerves 


73 


affect the mind and induce the patient to suffer by his own imagination. 
The 5th house is noted to be the house indicative of the sub-conscious 

mind and the 9th house the super-conscious mind. An evaluation of the 

house and bhavas would suggest the strength of the house and the strength 
of the brain. While Vargottama Lagna would suggest a strong constitu- 

tion, the vargottama Moon suggests a strong mind. Further the nature of 

the mind-fickle, stable, or partly stable and partly fickle-can be judged 

from the disposition of the Moon in moveable, fixed and mutable signs. 
The medium of mind will be the quality - dull or fertile - as rendered by 

the bodily refinement indicated by Lagna. If Lagna has one or more 

planets, it gets coloured by the association. 


The Moon is Karaka for Mind and he owns the 4th house of 
Kalapurusha. Thus the Moon and the fourth are to be studied exactly in 
the manner the mercurial position is recommended to be studied in the 
foregoing paragraphs. Affliction largely result in psychotic diseases. 
Unlike Mercury the Moon has very special position in the structure of 
horoscope. Apart from enjoying the near status of Lagna, the Moon has 
pulls and pushes on the blood streams and the blood supply to the brain 
is what keeps our thoughts in order. 


In predicting mental disorders, one must carefully examine the Ist 
house, and Mars, the 4th house and the Moon, the 6th house for general 
susceptibility to diseases, the Sun for mental make-up and the general 
disposition of the 5th house, Venus and the 7th house - also are important; 
for invasions from the world of the invisible, one must direct one's 
attention to the 8th and the 12th houses. 


Mutual 6th and 8th disposition of the Sun and the Moon having 
reference to the 12th (and 5th) from Lagna and subject to aspect of Mars 
can lead to powerful destructive tendencies, while Rahu's connection 
may indicate self-destruction or suicidal tendencies. 


The 2nd and the 12th disposition having reference to the 10th and the 
11th house, or 3rd and 4th houses, which reflecting a conflict between 
courage and timidity, restlessness and imaginary exaggerations, also 
indicate identification with nobler motives, ability to reason and a 
magnamunous generous instinct. The disposition of the Moon in advance 
of the Sun is always preferable as it indicates resolution of conflicts or 
complexes by efforts. 


If the 2nd and the 12th dispositions affectthe 9th and the 10th houses 
the conflict centres on education, career, attachments. 


74 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Benefic influences on either of the Luminaries will enable one to 
resolve the conflicts without much suffering (the description and the 
nature of the conflict vica-versa each Ascendant and each sign of the 
zodiac is beyond the scope of this article). 


Aries, Leo (Loco-motor ataxia, swoons, faintings etc) , Sagittarius 
(paralysis, fitsetc) and the dispositions of the Moon, Mercury and the Sun 
are to be ascertained for diagnosing most of the mental illnesses. 


Gemini, Libra and Aquarius are intellectual signs. Cancer, Scorpio 
and Pisces are emotional, sensitive and unstable. Aries is impulsive, 
Gemini refers to Nervous complaints and psychological troubles. Ner- 
vous ailments come under Sagittarius while Capricorn refers to diseases 
which limit the native. According to Western Astrology, Uranus refers to 
hellucinations and mental delusions, while Neptune controls brain troubles, 
delusions, hypochondria obsessions and insanity. 


Uranus refers to abnormality, changefulness, perversity, eccentricism. 
Neptune can make one hypersensitive, deceptive, unstable, sentimental 
and subversive. These factors have to be borne in mind while judging 
mental troubles. 


CLASSICAL TEXTS - WHAT THEY SAY 


The classical texts have not specified the planets in detail but they 
have very ably emphasized the importance of these planets and houses in 
predicting mental disorders. AFFLICTIONS ARE EITHER DUE TO 
INHERENT weaknesses of the planet, or due to their adverse placements 
in the 6th, 8th, 12th houses or due to aspect and association of malefics 
like Rahu, Ketu, Saturn and the weak Moon. The planets like Rahu, Ketu 
and Saturn are so much related to Karmic diseases that for serious 
malignant nature of the malady, one has to look into their position. Other 
planets could give the temporary afflictions. 


Among the various classical texts, many combinations have been 
given to indicate mental disorder but one does not get direct reference so 
that the same could be applied to different conditions. Such as: Aries, the 
Sun, and the Ascendant are connected intimately with brain disorder. The 
weak Moon inthe 12th bhava specially in conjunction with Saturn would 
lead one to insanity. The Sun and the Moonin harmonious positions - 3rd 
and 11th, 5th and 9th, Ist and 5th etc are good for psychic balance and 
mental health. The 4th and the 8th conjunction and opposite indicate 
evidence of mental strain and conflicts. Again the square aspect - and the 


Brain and Nerves 75 


lunar day will be the 8th or Ashtami produces characteristic psychologi- 
cal conflicts. If the reference of this disposition is in respect of the 12th 
and 9th, or 6th and 9th, the native may lack moral courage to give vent 
to his innermost feelings of goodness. Ifthe reference is to the 8th and 
11th, conflicts arise due to inheritance and financial involvement. 


An exhaustive treatment of mental disorder has been made in 
JATAKA PARIJATA. It is important to note that the combination 
indicating the importance of three planets in depression only suggests the 
general instability of the personality, one must at the very outset find out 
whether the individual has psychopathic personality. Three planets in 
depression is an indication of this kind. Several other combinations given 
in the book, which any reader can refer conveniently, show that insanity 
is primarily a function of the weak Moon, Saturn, Mars, the Sunand Rahu 
specially due to their association with the 12th, the 8th, the 7th, the 6th, 
the 5th and the 4th houses. Obviously, these bhavas are repositories of 
those principles which go to influence the creative aspects of the 
individual as well as the influences on him from the non-physical realm 
of existence. In orderto understand the propensity to mental affliction one 
has to go to the deeper constituents of the horoscope and then only base 
the judgement. 


On this line of enquiry, one finds that BRIHAT JATAKA has 
indicated that the placement of the Moon in Lagna would cause insanity; 
if the Ascendant is affected with the weak Moon, then the emotional 
nature of the individual becomes very psychopathetic; there could be 
instability in the personality make-up of the person. Any other weakness 
could affect him easily. The relationship ofthe Moon with Rahu while 
malefics are present in the 5th and the 9th bhavas make the person very 
susceptible to influences from the invisible regions; the sensivity to 
globins and such other entities has been stated to be possible under such 
conditions. In the 8th house the Moon could make the person fickle- 
minded. From these, it is apparent that the mind is intimately connected 
with the Moon and its association with malefics and in inauspicious 
houses such as the 6th, the 8th and the 12th would create unhappiness for 
the person. 


UTTARA KALAMRIT very much emphasises the importance of 
houses like the 6th, the 7th, the 12th but the significance of Rahu in 
creating sexual abnormality has also been pointed out. 


76 Astrology and Diagnosis 
THE MIND IN HEALTH AND DISEASES 


The mind is an elusive entity, we do not know where exactly it is 
located. or what it is. Some show the head and others the Heart as its 
location. Ordinarily we mean by mind, the agency that thinks and causes 
to act. 


After all these years, modern medical science has come to the 
conclusion that mind is the functional aspect of the brain, whatever that 
may mean,. Mind operates only when the scientist being is awake or 
conscious. It is thus linked to consciousness, because when there is no 
consciousness, there is no mental activity as when in sleep. Dream is 
another matter. When one is awake, one is conscious of one’s surround- 
ings - writes, speaks, laughs, cries - normally. Of course - acts and 
remembers things of his past experience or knowledge, but not when he 
is not. 


Now Psychologists say that this precious mind has three different 
layers - the conscious, sub-conscious and the unconscious - and it 
functions at these different levels. We know what the conscious mind 
does - writes, speaks etc. 


One's erratic behaviour, they say, for instance, rises from the subcon- 
scious in the unconscious mind, as it stores up memories. One's fears and 
complexes, however, are rooted in the unconscious layer of the mind. 
Abnormalities like Insanity arise from this layer as the ego arrests the 
outlet for impulses. 


Now these things are being explained in order to understand and detect 
the category of mental ailment from horoscopic indications. 


A sound mind in a sound body is an excellent maxim. One is powerful 
if one's health is top. Headache, cold, constipation makes one cross. Even 
so a sudden sorrowful new kills an appetite. These show that the body and 
mind mutually react to the detriment or betterment of one's personality. 
The different categories of mental ailments as identified by modern 
medical science are being shown below as that it is easy to spot it from 
a chart. 


Mental diseases are divided into two broad categories. (a) organs, and 
(b) functional. Senility, fits, arterial diseases, idiocy, failure of memory, 
sub-normality belong to the first type. Split personality, mania, psychoses 
or madness, neuroses or nervous disorders, 


Brain and Nerves TT 


hysteria, anxiety state and phobia or occasional states belong to the 
second category. 


According to modern thinking, the brain is directly involved in 
organic disorders of the mind. In the functional, the brain "per se” is 
normal but its function is distorted. 


Our ancients gave these ailments a tri-dosha orientation and brought 
in the cause, inaddition, Sapa, abhichara, badhaka grahas and sometimes 
super-human agencies like Yaksha, Sadism, masochism, etc are genericed 
these days as obsessions. 


Various other kinds of mental afflictions like Phobia, fear complexes 
and obsessions which are milder forms of personality imbalances are also 
included in this category of illness. They are mainly mental in origin. 
Under the impact of Sigmund Freud, most of the mental disorders have 
been argued to be sexual in origin; he stressed the importance of sexual 
imbalance, perversions and other shortcomings. The sexual characteris- 
tics under certain conditions express themselves in different mental 
aberrations. Several psychologists have not accepted the Freudian theory, 
but that is not the point, we are discussing. It is sufficient to indicate that 
many mental disorders are of sexual origin. Freud meticulously enquired 
into mental aberrations and showed that many of them definitely had sex 
disorders as the basis. Thus in astrological predictions importance of sex 
draws attention to Venus and affliction of this planet should warn the 
astrologe: to look for intensity of the affliction to predict serious mental 
disorder or just tolerable sexual digression. 


While madness is considered to be an abnormal condition of the mind, 
the genius is also a condition which is extra normal but accepted as 
agreeable. The sharp line of demarcation is just the disposition and 
aspects that the Moon would be receiving in the chart favourably or 
otherwise. It needs, further, a serious cultivation of mental attitude forany 
perception which is just not normal and constant thinking over a problem 
may account for a genius. The mind being excessively invigorated gets 
inconsistent and incoherency derails the activities and renders the person 
mad or insane. 


Much research is needed in this field, specially at the present juncture 
of human civilisation. The humanity is under the grip of anxiety. Perhaps 
the only way and most accessible to all is the practice of YOGA which 
may remedy many of the mental disturbances. 


18 Astrology and Diagnosis 


It is possible to cultivate Yoga and practise the same to an extent, but 
the general physical defect which may have caused the derangement and 
mental disturbance can hardly be remedied. Unless the physical defect is 
cleared for the mind to be in a balanced frame either by resorting to long 
practice of Yoga over years or by necessary meditation, there is no way 
to get rid of these mental diseases. Resorting to the application of 
psychiatric and electrical shocks, etc, on the basis of modern advances 
may give temporary relief, if they can, but they are not all natural, hence 
undesirable. 


The modern science of psychoanalysis, though a powerful tool in the 
kit of medicos practising studies on the human mind, demand extensive 
observations over long-periods of time to determine the cause of any 
illness of patients suffering from mental ill-health. They would like to 
ascertain exact environment and situation under which the ill-health 
could have been caused. The procedures and lengthy and time consum- 
ing, as anumber of observations, have to be made under varied situations 
to exactly pin point the one cause on which they can base the cause for 
remedial measures. Mental derangement unlike injuries is a subtle one 
and very careful and refined methods are to be employed in diagnosing 
the psychological canses. Mental ill-health may be due to various canses, 
simple ambition, determination to achieve something which is usually 
unattainable by the person, disappointments in realising the aims, passes 
due to relations, material prospects, ego of person etc. It is very difficult 
to find exact cause of mental derangement, specially when it involves the 
subject held precious by the person. Inspite of close association of the 
investigator he may fail due to fix difficulties involved. Many of these 
points can easily be overcome if the investigator is provided with the 
cannons of astro-psychology and the correct date of birth and other 
particulars of the patient. 


The mental diseases are broadly divided into psychoses and neuroses. 
The disease of the first group are further divided as organic and 
functional, though the two are not very much distinct in the modern 
understanding, since most of the functional groups are in the final analysis 
only organic. Students of the human body are uncertain about the actual 
area of mental faculties. Whether parts of brain deal with acquisitiveness 
conscentiousness, etc or that each nerve cell carries some peculiar 
thought of feeling is uncertain. When one is dealing with such uncertain 
fields of knowledge it is difficult to come to any conclusion. 


Brain and Nerves 79 


The diseases of the Nervous system may be due to physical injuries, 
infections , haemorrhage, tumours or degenerative diseases. Haemorrhage 
of the brain produce paralysis; it may be flaccid when the limb affected 
becomes incapable of movement or spastic when the limb becomes rigid. 


Flaccid paralysis results when the lower parts of the nervous system 
are injured and spastic type when the controlling part of the brain is 
affected. 


In Thrombosis or clotting, headache, giddiness, numbness and even 
speechlessness may result. 


Brain Tumors also result in similar diseases including disturbances of 
vision, disturbances of the ability to speak, write, word blindness orword 
deafness are also due to brain tumours, abscess or thrombosis affecting 
the speech area of the brain. The cause of the mystery disease Migraine, 
is also traced to brain affliction although it is considered to have 
something to do with the personality suffering from emotional stresses or 
due to some kind of allergy. 


Epilepsy may manifest in various ways; the person affected may fall 
down unconscious with his muscles tense and jaw clenched and the whole 
body rigid followed by rhythmical contraction of the limbs. When he 
recovers he may suffer loss of memory. In temporal Epilepsy, the person 
suddenly changes doing a job and does another seriously and stops doing 
the second job or returns to do the first and may forget the second job. In 
another type of Epilepsy one may get dazed and confused for a moment 
and the attack may be hardly noticeable. 


Epilepsy is hereditary and it may also manifest only once ina life-time 
in certain patients. Successive fits driving to death goes by the name of 
epilepticus, although loss of sugar in blood, lack of oxygen, uraemia, 
injury to the brain etc have been stated to be the causes of fits, true cause 
is not known. 


Among the Degenerative diseases affecting the nervous system are 
types of sclerosis or the hardening of the nerves. The cause may be the 
degeneration of nerve cells. 


ABNORMALITY OF MIND 
1. A weak Moon in all aspects posited in I2th house. 


2. Moon with Mercury posited in the Ascendant. 


80 Astrology and Diagnosis 


3. A waning Moon posited in a malefic Navamsa in a Kendra when 
Mercury is associated with malefics. 

4. A weak Moon with a malefic posited in Lagna, 5th or the 9th 
house. 

5. A weak and waning Moon posited in the 8th house along with 


an afflicted and weak Rahu. 


6. The Moon associated with a weak Saturn posited in the 8th 
house. 


7. Mercury and Moon without any aspects or association of other 
planets posited in a Kendra and without the aspect of the lord of 
the sign in which they are posited. 


8. Moon and Mars in the 5th house when other malefics occupy 8th 
house. 
9. A weak Moon with Mars, or Rahu or Saturn are in the 8th house 


or other unfavourable positions. 


10. A weak Mercury closely connected with malefics in the 3rd, 
6th, 8th or 12th house. 


11. Jupiter in Lagna and Saturn or Mars in the seventh house. 


12. A close association of Moon and Rahu in the Lagna when the 
trines are occupied by Malefics gives rise to inexplicable mental 
troubles. 


13. Saturn in Lagna and Mars is placed in the Sth, 7th, or 9th house. 
14. The Sun in the Lagna and Mars or Saturn in the 7th house. 
15. The following combinations tend to produce Mental Aberration. 
(i) Sun, Moon, Jupiter and Saturn. 
(ii) Moon, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. 
(iii) Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn. 
HYSTERIA. Moon, Mars and Saturn when posited in the 8th house. 


EPILEPTIC TROUBLE. Malefics occupy trines, and the Sun and 
Mars are in unfavourable position and the Saturn and Rahu are in the 8th 
house. 


Brain and Nerves 81 


EPILEPSY. When Venus and Moon are ina Kendra and 5th and the 
8th house are occupied by Malefics. 


TROUBLES OF MIND. Lagna in the Drekkana of Sagittarius. 


Jupiterin the 3rd house or in Kendra and the SunandMooninKendras. 
When the first part of Sagittarius is rising, the combination of the Sun 
and the Moon with lords of Kendras and Konas in the 5th or 9th houses. 


Mars in the Lagna and Sun with a malefic in the 8th house. 


FALLING SICKNESS. Afflicted Mars in evil house, aspected by 
Saturn and a weak Moon in Parivesha. 


MENTAL TROUBLES. The Sunin the signof Mercury aspected by 
Jupiter; Venus in Cancer Navamsa. 


A very weak Moon in Lagna other than Cancer, Aries or Taurus; 
Saturn in the fifth house. 


Gemini, Libra and Aquarius are known as Airy signs. They govern the 
mental and human aspects. They constitute a triangle of harmony, 
equilibrium and peace. The affliction to these must be carefully noted. At 
times the mental aberrations, are due to the over indulgence of the animal 
in man and here our pointers are the bestial signs known as 
Aries, Taurus, Leo, Sagittarius and Capricorn. A weak constitution on the 
other hand is implied by the afflicted Cancer, Capricorn and Pisces. In 
most cases of mental aberrations the food consumed being converted into 
Bile. Consequently we have also to examine the signs governing certain 
parts of the body. Thus the fiery and Cardinal signs. role the head, the 
watery and cardinal signs have a control over stomach and the common 
signs have much to say about the nervous system. Watery signs have an 
influence on the lower mind. To be more specific Aries refer to the head 
and Brain, Gemini to the blood, Cancer to the digestive organs, Scorpio 
to the genitals, Sagittarius to the nerves, Aquarius to the circulation of 
blood and Pisces to the Lymphatic system. Coming to the planets Sun also.,. 
rules blood and brain, while the Moon governs the stomach and the 
lymphatic system, Mercury refers to the brain, wind Nervous system, 
Mars controls the Bile and the muscular system. Jupiter has sway over 
blood, liver and arteries. The nerve fluids, membranes of the brain and 
nervous disorders are supposed to be regulated by Uranus. Even Neptune 
is taken to have power over the brain. 


82 Astrology and Diagnosis 


When Aries becomes the Ascendant, we have to leok to the condition 
of the head, stomach and kidneys. Taurus as Ascendant inclines to 
apoplexy, Gemini is prone to nerves disorders and mental overstrain. 
Besides the impurity of blood, Cancer tends to hypochondria, to a morbid 
disposition. All irregularities of Digestive system are traceable to Virgo. 
Libra points to head and to the stomach as the two possible sources of 
trouble. Sagittarius has the tendency to bring about the disorders of the 
Nervous system and of the blood circulation. At times Aquarius inclines 
to Nervous disorders. We can also separate the various parts of the brain 
and assign each to a planet. The Moon has the power over cerebrum, 
Jupiter over the mid-brain, Venus over the cerebellum and the Sun over 
the oblongate Medulla. 


MENTAL DISEASES 


Among diseases, the mental diseases are the most dreadful. They are 
named according to intensity of affliction, as Melancholy, Mania, 
Epilepsy, Lunacy, Insanity , Hysteria and mental phases. The horoscopes 
are the best indicators of these diseases. A doctor may not predict mental 


derangement and the period of such an affliction while an efficient 
astrologer can. 


MELANCHOLIA is the first phase of the disease. The afflicted 
person in this case is duly remorseful and gloomy. HYSTERIA gives fits 
and other physical troubles. MENTAL ABERRATION is due to the 
affliction of the mental and intellectual planets, the Moon and Mercury. 
The mental signs when afflicted and the affliction of Mercury and the 
Moon results in this. But in the case of HYSTERIA the Moon has 


conjunction with or aspect of Rahu and Saturn is the root cause for 
MELANCHOLIA 


MANIA is the result of an unstable mind. The patients think of various 
things but their attention comes to rest on a particular matter only. 


They are always at a loss to discern the right and the wrong. Their 
conclusions are not final until they finish the work. 


In such a case, the 6th house and its lord play a prominent part. As 
usual the Moon and Mercury receive heavy afflictions. The Lagna, the 
2nd house and their lords need attention along with Aries and Taurus 
which stand for brain and cerebellum. 


INSANITY is a case where the patient is out of senses. He has no 
knowledge of what he does. Whereas the maniacs are able to express their 


Brain and Nerves 83 


sufferings, the insanes cannot. Their whole system has collapsed and they 
have no control over their nervous system and sensory organs. Their 
speech is incoherent. The mind is restless, at the same time vacant. 

The vision becomes stable and actions become purposeless. Obsession or 
possession of SPIRITS is said to be the cause when Trines are afflicted 
or occupied by Rahu. 


LUNACY and INSANITY are more or less similar. 


EPILEPSY is due to nervous disorders. Here the 6th lord, the 6th 
house and Mercury are factors. 


Mental diseases may be caused due to various reasons. An undevel- 
oped mind, excessive indulgence in food, sex and other activities, lack of 
self-confidence courage and push, nervous debility, are found to be 
among the primary factors. Sometimes suspicion towards the character 
of the partner and money matters are the cause. 


EPILEPSY 


In many cases the cause of Epilepsy is unknown. A number of 
causative factors like unnoticed birth injuries, meningitis, and cerebral 
vascular diseases can, however, cause it. In-herited predisposition seems 
to play a considerable part in Epilepsy. 


Some fits start after ah injury which may be just coincidental or the 
cause. The first attack usually makes its appearance before the age of 
twenty. There are three types of Epilepsy; grandmal, petitmal and 
psycho-motor. 


As far as possible normal life can be continued. “Working at great 
heights and near machinery is to be avoided. Unaccompanied bathing in 
swimming pool or the sea is dangerous. Marriage does not affect in any 
way. 


Heavy exercises should never be included in the routine of epiliptic. 
Alcohol should be completely stopped. Dilantin and phenobarbione are 
the drugs commonly used. 


CONVULSIONS 
Every case of convulsions or fits should be examined in detail after 
studying the detailed history of the patient and accurate description of the 
attack, An X-ray of the skull and electro-encephalogram done in leading 
hospitals will help decide whether the convulsions are due to epilepsy or 
any other lesion in the brain. 


84 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Even if it is a case of epilepsy, the treatment varies with the type of 
epilepsy. Under no circumstances should the treatment for epilepsy be 
stopped suddenly as this will cause a severe attack or coma to occur. This 
treatment is not with one drug alone but with a combination of drugs 
which suits the patient best. And it varies from individual to individual. 
The treatment with adequate dose of each drug in the combination should 
be continued for not less than three years a fter the last seizure has occured. 
That means the patient should be free of any symptoms or fits for at least 
3 years before the drugs can gradually be reduced. 


A medical check up of the patient and blood counts will be required 
in most cases to prevent drug toxicity during the prolonged treatment. 


ENCEPHALITIS - INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN 


Inflammation of the brain is seen in different conditions known as 
Encephalitis. It may be due to infection from bacteria or virus or specific 
fevers like measles, mumps and vaccinia. 


The symptoms common to all forms of encephalitis are same as in 
cases of severe intracranial ailments like headache, sleeplessness, coma, 
delirium, convulsions, fever, paralysis, vomiting etc. All these cases 
require hospitalisation and expert treatment. 


NEURASTHENIA 


Psychical exhaustion, long convalescence and alcoholism can cause 
irritable and depressive tendencies. This condition is known as Neuras- 
thenia. Vagus tremors of limbs, giddiness, headache, inability to concen- 
trate on work, loss of interest and restlessness are common features of 
Neurasthenia. If the cause is removed natural recovery results. 


Since it is psychological condition, unemployment and domestic 
problems often cause this trouble. 


For the exact assessment of the condition, the help of psychiatrist may 
be sought. 


CEREBRAL THROMBOSIS 


Cerebral Thrombosis is usually the result of arteriosclerosis, syphilis, 
arterial disease and embolism. Symptoms depend on the place of 
Thrombosis. Even carotid artery can get thrombosed due to injury. 


It may result in weakness of some parts of the body, crthe whole of 
one side. Persons with hypertension are more likely to get these compli 


Brain and Nerves 85 


cations. So they should be moderate in all their activities. 


Cerebral haemorrhage is usually fatal. With proper management 
cerebral Thrombosis is not a bad case unless thrombus is big and 
extensive. Once hemiplegia is developed, phisio-therapy makes all the 
difference between a total invalid and a fairly active person. 


Some cases of thrombosis (selected) require further investigations 
like cartoid angiography. 


MIGRAINE 


Migraine is a type of headache which is recurring and intense which 
is often restricted to one half of the head. 


The attacks usually develop on waking in the morning and date from 
childhood and make their appearance at about the age of puberty. It often 
ceases in women at the menopause but may rarely continue into the old 
age. Other members of the family may suffer from disorders such as 
Asthma, urticaria, epilepsy or some form of psycopathetic trouble. 


The cause of migraine is not exactly known. Many factors such as 
disorders of digestion, endocrine function, refractive errors of the eye, the 
psychological disturbances have been found responsible in some cases. 
The immediate cause of the attack is a paroxysmal variation inthe calibre 
of the blood vessels of the brain either spasm or dilation or the one 
followed by the other. 


An attack may be precipitated by factors such as fatigue, anxiety, 
frustration, indiscretion, and irregularities of diet, excessive light or 
noise, prolonged eye strain and may also occur in-association with 
menstrual periods. Migraine at times produces such severe pain that 
unexplained suicide, they say, may be due to agony. 


DELUSIONS 


Delusions arise mainly out of thought disorder. They are often bissare. 
They may come as sudden conviction, the person being egocentric. They 
may also be fleeting notions. Fixed delusions often occur intermixed with 
seeing "through" everything. 


Delusions maybe connected with past emotional experiences, struggles 
and frustrations. 


They form one of the diverse features of the condition known as 
schizophrenia. 


86 Astrology and Diagnosis 


HEADACHE 


One of the twentieth Century's biggest headaches in many countries 
is just that. Many millions are spent every year on headache remedies and 
recent research suggests that in some highly developed countries head- 
ache are a life-disrupting problem to at least one person out of every 
twelve. 


There are two hundreds known remedies although the best of these do 
relieve the pain, they rarely cure the cause. Most doctors are of the opinion 
that few headaches are maladies in themselves but rather a symptom that 
something is wrong. 


Headache can be due to migraine, muscle contraction or tension, 
sinusitis, rhinitis, neurasthenia, neuritis, neuralgia, inflammation inside 
the skull resulting from diseases of the eyes and ears. High blood pressure 
can also be a cause. 


However, the usual causes of headache are exhaustion, refractory 
errors and fever. Aspirin gives relief. Correction to refractory errors, if 
present, is necessary. 


TWO TYPES OF HEADACHE 


According to headache experts now working on the problem in 
several different countries, it is the chronic headaches that cause the most 
disruption and about 90 per cent of these fall into two categories, the 
tension headache and migraine. 


Tension headaches by far the commonest are the body's own way of 
reaching to stress condition. Sometimes the stress may be physical like 
a bad body as posture, fatigue or indigestion. But very often it is 
emotional. 


In fact, some authorities go so far as to say that 90 per cent of the 
tension headaches are set off by emotional factors. About half of these 
result in the sufferer enduring pain caused by the continuous contraction 
of the head and neck muscles. Tightens muscles may reduce the blood 
flow though the affected areas thus increasing the pain - a kind of vicious 
circle of aches. 


FAMILIAR DISEASE 


"“ They are apt to work too hard, relax too little and worry too much 
about gaining the approval of theirs". In practice, tension headache 


Brain and Nerves 87 


frequently occurs in conjunction with migraine or what some folk call 
"sick" headaches. Migraine itself is fairly well defined condition un- 
doubtedly running in families to which perhaps more thought and 
research has been given inpast few years than any other formof headache. 


Indeed, the latest research suggests that the pain of migraine may be 
largely due to the substances around the headache site known as “head- 
ache fluid ". These chemical protein substances which have been isolated 
are known to make the nerve-ends ultra-sensitive to pain. They may also 
cause the blood vessels to constrict and to start offa migraine attach. 


Migraine sufferers, described by Dr. Fiedman as mostly "very 
worthwhile people” tend to be energetic, ambitious, bright, methodical 
often creative, punctual and intolerant of mistakes of others. 


EMOTIONAL FACTOR 


Our knowledge of all headache conditions really dates only since 
World War If. Amongst other things, it shows that most headaches 
endured today represents a person's total personality reacting against or 
in relation to his or her environment. 


Yet, it is often possible to adjust one’s personality, even though this 
may take time and so end the headaches. 


We do well to pay more attention to the definite emotional factor in 
many headaches, and those of us who escape this particular scourge need 
often to show more compassion and understanding for the sufferers. 


As Dr. Fiedman wisely points out "No matter what drugs we may 
develop to treat headaches, we will never find a pill that will substitute 
for insight into human behaviour." 


INSOMNIA 


Tf Insomnia to some degree, is your problem - and it adversely affects 
the daytime lives of millions of us - it is important first of all to discover 
just what kind of sleeplessness you suffer from. 


Discovering this can be halfway to finding a cure, for then, and only 
then, can you do something positively appropriate about it. 


As a result of years of intensive study in one of the best-equipped 
medical laboratories in the world, at Harvard University, U.S A., into the 
whole business of not sleeping. Dr.Dale Friend has come up with four 


88 Astrology and Diagnosis 


categories of sleeplessness that are now widely recognised as holding the 
key to this most wasteful problem. 


See which fits your particular case most accurately : 


1.THE TENSION TYPE: This is by far the largest group. It consists 
of people who have been under some form of strain all day and who go 
to bed too tightly wound up to find sleep readily. They may roll and toss 
and ponder for as much as two to three hours before falling into a deep 
but often troubled or intermittent sleep. By morning, however, they are 
often too deeply asleep to wake readily and rarely rise really refreshed. 


2.THE FATIGUE TYPE : People in this group get progressively 
more tired as the day wears on. By evening they can hardly keep their eyes 
open and they often fall fast asleep after the evening meal. Then when 
bedtime comes, they find they cannot woo sleep, and they frequently 
wake too early in the morning. Although this group includes all kinds of 
people it especially applies to many older folk. 


3. THE HURTING TYPE : These are the people whose sleep is 
driven away by various forms of pain of discomfort. This may be the real 
pain of indigestion, arthritis, cramp or other complaints or it may lie in 
the disturbance of night sweats, hot flushes, coughing, too cold too hot a 
bed or bedroom, draughts or simply an unsuitable or worn-out mattress. 
People in this group may fall into intermitten sleep but they keep waking 
all through the night. 


4.THE "IN-AND-OUT" TYPE : This group includes people who 
believe themselves to be the worst insomniacs., the chronic non-sleepers. 
"They swear they haven't slept for weeks" says Dr. Friend " but what 
actually happens is that they are rapidly going in and out of sleep, although 
they connect the waking periods as a continual mental process. They do 
not register the time they have spent asleep at all ". This is a highly 
neurotic and stressful group that includes people who are emotionally 
over tense and who find life's problems too much. 


WHAT CAN BE DONE : According to Dr. Friend's advice to his 
fellow-doctors the best treatment for Group | is an ordinary quick action, 
short duration sedative. Group 2 sufferers benefit most from a minor 
tranquilliser, and some re-organisation of their daily lives to include more 
rest and exercise. Those in Group 3 need the physical cause tackling first, 
always remembering that two or even three causes may combine to 
produce the sleeplessness. For unfortunate in group 4, however medical 
advice is essential and some form of tension-reducing treatmer* is usually 
necessary. 


Brain and Nerves 89 


BRAIN DISEASES 


Brain may be attacked from various kinds of diseases. Affliction of 
blood vessels, haemorrhage, thrombosis, tumours, infectious, inflamma- 
tion of brain, Hydrocephalus, brain fever etc are the various kinds of 
diseases of brain. Mesha rashi is the place in natural zodiac which is the 
seat of brain. The first house or lagna rules over the same. Sun is the 
Karaka planet. Affliction of Mesha rashi, first house, its lord and Sun, 
their weak position in horoscope, all these give rise to diseases connecting 
brain and head. Mars also rules over the head and all diseases concerning 
head and brain. For respective diseases concerning brain respective 
planets ruling different diseases should be considered. 


EPILEPSY, NEURASTHENIA AND HYSTERIA 


Epilepsy is in affection of the Nervous system characterized by 
attacks of unconsciousness with or without convulsions. 


Lagna, sixth house and Mercury are responsible for this disease. 
When Lagna, Lord. of Lagna, Mercury, which is Karaka for nerves, and 
Moon Karaka for mind - all are afflicted, this disease may occur. Causes 
for Epilepsy with strong afflicted Sun, Moon or fifth house may result into 
madness. 


Neurasthenia is a condition of weakness or exhaustion of the nervous 
system giving rise to various forms of mental and bodily inefficiency. 
Moon and Mercury also role this disease. Affliction of Moon causes 
mental inefficiency and affliction of lagna or karaka Sun is responsible 
for bodily inefficiency .To find out bodily inefficiency one must lookinto 
the position and strength of lagna, lord of lagna and Sun. 


Disorder of personality manifested by a heightened and perverted 
suggestibility is seen in-AYSTERIA. Persons with mobile emotional 
dispositions, especially, women are the chief subjects of this disease. 
Heavily afflicted Moon and afflicted of badly placed lord of lagna or 
affliction of lagna may give rise to this disease. 


I am giving below some of the familiar combinations for these 
diseases:- 
1. Sun, Moon and Mars in lagna being aspected by any malefic. 


Di Sun, Moon and Mars in the eighth house being aspected by any 
malefic. 


3. Moon and Mercury in Kendra aspected by malefic and malefic in 
fifth or eighth house. 


90 Astrology and Diagnosis 


4. Mars and Saturn either in sixth or eighth house and Jupiter in 
trikona (that is first, fifth or ninth house). 


Moon and Mercury in kendra and all malefics in 8th house. 


Moon and Mercury in fifth house, all malefics in eighth house. 


5 
6 
Zz: Moon in dusthana with either of Rahu, Saturn, Mars or Ketu. 
8 Jupiter in third house being afflicted. 

9 


Rahu and Moon in lagna and malefics in trikona. 


10. Moon with Rahu or Saturn in any place and Mercury weak or 
afflicted in any place. 


Il. Moon and Mercury when afflicted. 

12. Malefic Rahu in lagna or dusthana. 

13. Moon, Mars and Saturn in eighth house. 
MENINGITIS 


In the Public mind, certain infections have retained a particularly 
sinister reputation. Should you contact them it is believed, medical 
science can do little to help. Whether you die or recover will depend on 
fate. And even if you do recover, irreparable damage will ha ve been done. 


This nihillistic attitude may have been appropriate 30 or 40 years ago. 
But happily now-a-days most infections can be successfully treated. 

Meningitis was one of these conditions against which the doctor 
seemed powerless. While it remains a serious illness even today, recovery 
is generally the rule, provided treatment is instituted promptly and 
adequately. After-effects are unusual and seldom interfere with a normal 
existence. 


BRAIN ABSCESS 


What is meningitis ? Literally the word means inflammation of the 
meninges, the covering layers of the brain and spinal cord. Descriptively, 
the term is frequently coupled with the names of those germs that cause 
the infection - Bacteria or viruses. 


Infection of meninges need not involve the underlying brain tissue 
at all. But the picture of a patient with brain cell inflammation and 
one with meningitis is virtually identical. 


Germs reach the meninges either by direct spread or via the 


Brain and Nerves 91 


blood stream. Thus a penetrating wound of the skull or an infected middle 
ear can allow germs to come into direct contact with the meninges. 
Equally the germs from a brain abscess could spread outwards from the 
brain to the covering layers. Blood-borne infection may arise from an 
invader in the throat or from a site of infection already established within 
the body. 


From time to time epidemic of meningitis will occur in the same as 
there are epidemic of other infectious diseases (illness). 


Should the causative germs be the meningococci bacteria the illness 
is that formerly well-known as cerebro-spinal or spotted fever. Some 
viruses too will start an attack. The type of illness in both circumstances 
will be identical. But the bacterial infection needs prompt antibiotic 
treatment, whereas there is no drug currently available that can alter the 
usually benign course of the viral infection. 


Every headache associated with fever can seem to be an anxious 
parent to be the sta rt of meningitis. In fact, the majority of acute infections 
are accompanied by " brain" symptoms of one sort or another. Individu- 
ally the symptoms of meningitis are unremarkable and common to 
innumerable conditions. 


SYMPTOMS 


Fever and shivering will usually occur in the presence of infection. 
Headache irritability are part of the body's reaction to any toxic process. 
Vomiting is common to so many disorders that it is dangerous to regard 
it as a specific sign of anything. Dislike of the light (photophobia) and 
double vision are symptomatic of localised brain damage, but they can 
also be due to a wide variety of eye conditions. Drowsiness too, is a fairly 
universal symptom and most sick people sleep a lot. Even an isolated fit 
cannot be taken as a sure sign of meningitis, for some children start off 
every infectious illness in this manner, 


Fortunately, additional symptoms are usually also present, directing. 
attention to the other parts of the body and enabling a diagnosis to be 
made. 


It must be emphasised that during most infectious illnesses there will 
be a time when "brain" symptoms predominate. Generally, theappearance 
of a rash or a cough pin-points the cause of the trouble. 


IRRITATION 
But a combination of headache (particularly at the back of the neck), 


92 Astrology and Diagnosis 


vomiting, irritability, and excessive dressiness with or without fever is a 
likely indication of meningeal irritation. It is wiser not to ignore those 
symptoms. Probably innumerable cases of bacterial meningitis are 
nowadays nipped in the bud. The source of infection in the throat is 
frequently killed off by antibiotics prescribed to deal with a fever orsore- 
throat. 


Of course, not every child with those two symptoms may be incubat- 
ing meningitis or needs penicillin. A throat swab and doctor's own 
experience are generally excellent guide lines < n which to base treatment. 
Many cases of meningitis are first seen only when frank meningeal 
irritation has occurred without any prior warnings signs. 


The treatment of bacterial meningitis is reliable, and the vast majority 
of people recover completely from it. For Viral Meningitis there are no 
specific medicines or remedies, but fortunately this illness generally 
resolves spontaneously. 


Intellectual impairment or a permanent squint are rare consequences 
of meningitis. Slight degrees of deafness are not uncommon and some- 
times epilepsy appears to have dated from the time of the illness. Both 
disabilities once recognised can be readily dealt with. 


Chronic meningitis is a particular menace. It is often due to TB and 
is especially difficult to detect. Persistent headache, loss of appetite, and 
Vomiting ina child should not be casually dismissed as " nerces" without 
thorough investigation. The outlook is good, provided treatment is 
initiated early. 


Meningitis is an illness more often suspected by a parent than 


confirmed by the doctor. But most doctors would agree that an unneces- 
sary call on their time is preferable to an unnecessary tragedy. 


In Meningitis, the meninges are chiefly attacked. Headache, delirium, 
convulsions, vomiting and hyperasthania are common symptoms in this 
disease. 


Sun and Mars are the planets who govern this disease. Affliction of 
these planets their situation in evil houses, their conjunction with evil 
lords and malefics aspects of malefics over them, all these give rise to the 
disease of meningitis, provided the above planets make some relation 
with a disease - inflicting house orplanet. Moon is karaka for vomiting. 
When Moon is also afflicted along with a combination for the above 
disease, she causes vomiting. In case of Meningitis of acute nature these 
planets are found hegvity afflicted. Lagna and Aries Sign role the head 


Brain and Nerves 93 


and their strength and position are also to be considered in this disease. 
These are generally found heavily afflicted in case of acute Meningitis. 


SLEEPING SICKNESS 


Sleeping sickness is transmitted by the tse-tse flies which inject 
trypanosomes into the blood. Infection ensues with swelling of the lymph 
nodes, irregular fever, rapid pulse, oedema and erythematous rashes. 
Later meningitis and encephalitis result. 


When the brain is thus affected, lethargy, mental and physical 
deterioration tremors, shuffling gait, convulsions, coma and death ensue. 
Mild cases manifest with fever and headache. 


The disease occurs in those areas where the tse-tse flies abound 
namely in Western and Central equatorial Africa which includes the 
Congo, Uganda, East Africa, Rhodesia, Nyasaland, etc. An untreated 
patient rarely lives overa year. The patient appears apathetic andmorose, 
laziness and emotional instability occur and he is seen to drop of to sleep 
even while eating or talking. The speech becomes slow and mumbled. 


The patient becomes bed-ridden and unconsciousness may follow 
before the end comes. The only method of controlling the disease is by 
elimination of contact of men with fly. Anti tse-tse measures such as a 
clearance of forest and bush areas around lakes, rivers, water points and 
destruction of flies with D.D.T. sprayed from the air. Concentration of 
population, resettlement, improved dietary and general welfare should be 
looked into. 


MEMORY 


Memory plays a very important role in human development and evolu- 
tion. Speech, action and calculation depend on memory for their perfec- 
tion, Loss of memory or forgetfulness is a common complaint. 


The process of memorisation depends on the ability to focus the mind 
on the matter to be memorised. Integrity of certain portions of the brain 
is important. Sometimes fatigue and anxiety affect powers of recalling. 
Alcohol and barbiturate addiction may also effect memory. But the most 
common cause of forgetfulness is lack of interest and concentration. 


Bare causes are brain injury, epilepsy, hysteria and other mental 
conditions. Usually determination and interest will help in most cases. 
General improvement of health will go a long way to help. 


94 Astrology and Diagnosis 
PSYCHO-NEUROSIS 


Psycho-neurosis is an emotional disorder in which feelings of anxiety 
obsessional thoughts, compulsive acts and physical complaints without 
objective evidence of disease in various patterns dominate the human 
personality. Such mal-functioning ofthe emotional, mental structure of 
the human personality may emphasise the emotional character of the 
neurotic illness. The absence of physical or objective evidence suggests 
that the illness is caused at first in the visible dimensions of the personality 
from which it descends to the physical or objective conditions of life. 
From it one could clearly see that the astrological house such as the 8th 
and the 12th must be related to this kind of illness. Because this kind of 
illness is connected with the psyche of the person leading ultimately to 
the physical conditions, such ailments are known psycho-somatic which 


for astrological diagnostics purposes must be related to the Moon and the 
4th house. 


ANXIETY-NEUROSIS 


Organic psychoses may be due to poisoning of the nervous system by 
alcohol, carbon monoxide, lead, vitamin deficiency, infections or degen- 
eration of the brain. Symptoms mentioned are confusion and loss of 
memory Schizophrenia and related diseases noted to be functional 
psychoses, are now considered to be due to some derangement in blood 
chemistry. The person affected may get delusions and hallucinations. 


The Main Neurosis are Anxiety neurosis, hysteria, obsessional neu- 
rosis etc. The Primary cause given inanxiety - a feeling of groundless fear. 
When anxiety attacks occur, heart bounds and the patient feels goping 
mad, gets no sleep and worries for nothing. This is one of the most 
important, if not the important, disease raging the world at the present 
juncture. Due to the time-saving methods of work, journey ete the whole 
world is anxiety stricken and every individual is more or less a patient of 
this Anxiety Neurosis. The neurotics, in general, are said to be suffering 
from state of their inability to face the realities of life i.e. lack in some kind 
of dynamic personality. Failure in the examination, failure in getting job 
etc are mentioned to be some kind of baseless fears which make a person 
prone to neuroses. 


Brain and Nerves 95 


MENTAL IMBALANCE 


Mental maladies are a great tragedy that laugh at modern advance- 
ment. Inspite of spectacular achievement in the outside world of Space 
and technology, man has still to grapple with the forces of the dark world 
in the recesses of his mind and ego. The mind is still the breeding ground 
for some of the most destructive forces in the world-hate, passion, 
jealousy and depression. 


The mind is the most forceful part of the human personality and it is 
ruled by the Moon. Mercury roles intelligence which is part of the mind. 
The 6th house rales ill-health of the body and of the mind. Afflictions to 
these significators by Mars, Rahu, Saturn or the signs they occupy cause 
Mental maladies. 


As far as the NER VOUS BASIS of the disease is concerned there has 
to be some relation of the adverse type with Ascendant and Mercury. 


While indicating these, each sign of the zodiac represents to certain 
part of the human body and the disease peculiar to it and each planet also 
indicates certain type of diseases. 


On this general principle one can superimpose what has been stated 
earlier. In that case, diseases of the brain must relate to Aries, Ascendant, 
the Sun with the 6th house; nervous disorders relate to Ascendant and 
Mercury with the 6th house. 


Brain disorders must be clearly specified and its causation identified 
with the basic principles and planets connected with it. 


If the Sun and the Moon are in the 6th and 8th or 2nd and 12th the 
conflict will be on the mental level. The conflict is reduced or resolves 
itself favourably if either of the two luminaries is in association or 
aspected by Jupiter or occupy jupiterian constellations. These mutual 
disposition of the Sun and the Moon can have a variety of variations 
depending upon the signs, constellations etc occupied by them, and their 
situation with reference to the Ascendant point. 


Theoretically, it is very clear that birth is conditioned by many events. 
The genes are tiny objects; but they contain a whole universe in them. Of 
the many millions of sperms one will join the egg and cause the birth of 


96 Astrology and Diagnosis 


an individual. The genera continue through the chain of life individually 
and reflect when occasioned. No investigator can record the events of the 
whole family and the individual through his ancestry so convincingly and 
so coherently as the horoscope can and the planetary pattern at once gives 
a thousand points of information necessary for a clear diagnosis. 


Not only the horoscope can diagnose the cause of any mental illness 
but also suggest remedies or cures. Permanent or temporary nature of the 
illness can be ascertained; as also medical or ethical or divine (of faith or 
the person) remedies; the long duration of time needed for recording all 
other events that went into manifesting of the illness can be avoided and 
many other intricate problems overcome by a simple study of patient's 
birth details. 


Madness, Epilepsy, fainting ete are psychological and psychosomatic 
diseases. Volumes of literature exist on these subjects and it is difficult 
to justify every type of mental sickness and deal the same at length. 
However, the theoretical principle underlying the astro-psychological 
observations can be presented. 


If we try to go by the research-findings of some Indian psychiatrists 
such psychiatric problems are no more the monopoly of Western coun- 
tries and the symptoms of mental illness are to be found not only amongst 
people living in urban areas but also amongst villagers leading "tradi- 
tional, well ordered and limited lives". 


The opinions expressed by some of these experts, favouring modern 
techniques require to be carefully examined in the light of the observa- 
tions made by men like Dr. Alexis Carrel that one leading a simple, strictly 
moral, and principled life could be free from mental maladies gripping 
today's "civilised society". Dr. Carrel observes : "Those who keep in 
peace of their inner-self in the midst of tumult of the modem city are 
immune from nervous and organic disorders ...man integrated himself by 
meditation, just as by action ... in the countries where moral sense and 
intelligence are simultaneously developed nervous and nutritive diseases 
criminality and insanity are rare......: the frequency of neurosis and 
psychosis is doubtless the expression of a very grave defect of modern 
civilisation". 


In the modem world neurosis and psychosis appear to be the problem 
diseases. Even to all normal human beings there comes a time when 
psychotic disturbances throw us off our balance. When we analyse 
ourselves we must have not only a technique but also a guide by which 


Brain and Nerves 97 


we can check the validity of our conclusions and forecast the probable 
outcome of actions and decisions. This is where astrology can help. The 
complexes of human psyche are vividly portrayed in what we call 
horoscope. Psychiatrists say that our minds are composed consciously 
and sub-consciously, of many complexes closely interwoven masses of 
ideas about sex, beliefs, philosophy etc gathered from our childhood. To 
each of these complexes is attached a deep emotional content a portion 
of life-force. And the aim of the analysis is to release this reservoir of 
psychic energy which is tied up and in doing so liberate the soul from 
nerve strain, anxiety and neurotic disturbance. 


According to Dr.B.VRAMAN - who says : 


It seems in the Western countries mental diseases are more numerous 
than all the diseases put together. 


In the State of New York " one person out of every twenty-two has to 
be placed in an Asylum at some time or other". In the United States each 
year "about 68,000 new cases are admitted to insane asylums and similar 
institutions. If the admissions continue at such a rate, about one million 
of the children and young people who are today attending schools and 
colleges will, sooner or later, be confined to asylums. In the State 
Hospitals there were in 1932, 340,000insanes. There were also in special 
institutions, 81,580 feeble-minded and epileptic and 10,930 on parole. 
These statistics do not include the mental cases treated in private 
hospitals. In the whole country besides the insane, there are 500,000 
feeble minded. And in addition surveys made under the auspices of the 
National Committee for mental hygiene have revealed that at least 
400,000 children are so un-intelligent that they cannot profitably follow 
the courses of Public schools. In fact, the individuals who are mentally 
deranged are far more numerous. It is estimated that several hundred 
thousand person not mentioned in any statistics are affected with 
psychoneurosis". 


Dr. Carrel observes," these figures show how great is the fragility of 
the consciousness of civilised men, and how important for modern society 
is the problem of mental health. The diseases of the mind are a serious 
menace. They are more dangerous than tuberculosis, cancer, heart and 
kidney diseases, and even typhus, plague and cholera. 


"The frequency of neurosis and psychosis is doubtless the expression 
of a very grave defect of modern civilisation. The new habits of existence 
have certainly not improved our mental health”. 


98 Astrology and Diagrosis 


It is a pity that the modern scientists of several disciplines very glibly 
desire to test the authenticity of astrological predictions without them- 
selves subjecting to such scrutiny. To discredit astrology is their aim 
because they themselves are very shaky about their method and approach. 


On the other hand, many psychologists of international repute have 
testified to the accuracy of astrological predictions and no more desire to 
work on the preliminary aspects of this subject. 


Astrology is a fact in nature because it is based on two fundamental 
natural laws, namely the Law of Action and reaction know as the Law of 
Karma, and the Law of Reincarnation. Many of the difficulties, during the 
course of human life specially of fundamental nature, are related to such 
problems and unless it is so recognised, their cure is not permanent. Some 
psychologists have recognised it but not all. 


This basic approach to mental disorder relating the occurrence of 
affliction to events in previous lives which is mirrored in natal chart, is 
generally neglected by the modem psychologists which, to a great extent, 
has thwarted the progress towards a better mental health treatment. It 
would be an interesting study to find out as to how many of the modern 
psychologists and Neurologists believe in the two fundamental laws of 
nature : if they did not do so, how do they expect the illness originating 
in previous births and so much intricately woven in the life-style of the 
present incarnation could be cured by a few pills ! Astrological assistance 
m this regard could be of great help and that is why Edgar Caycee proved 
so marvellous in his approaches to curing physical and mental illness of 
his patient." These are the views of Dr. B.VJiaman. 


. This is a case of Paralysis 


and the native ultimately died 

from the same. 

The reasons are: 
S. 1. Mercury is debilitated, 


| combusted and is lord of the 


8th house. 


Brain and Nerves 99 
2. Moon is very weak and is almost a new Moon. 


3. Saturn significator of Limbs and legs is debilitated and conjoined 
with Rahu and is aspected by powerful Mars, the lord of the sixth 
house. 


He has further inter-changed house with Mars. Both Mars and 
Saturn are malefics. 


4. Mars the lord of the sixth house and a significator for paralytic 
strokes is afflicted by Saturn. 


5. Lord ofthe Ascendant is afflicted by Saturn from the 6th. 
6. 9th Lord is weak and 9th house is aspected by 6th lord Mars. 
iP Sixth house from Lagna, Sun and Moon are afflicted. 


8. \, 9th Lord from Sun and Moon and also 9th Lord of natural zodiac 
are afflicted. 


9. Pisces a sensitive sign is afflicted by malefics. 


10. 12th house which rules the left side and left leg is afflicted by 
malefics and 12th Lord Venus is in the sixth house and is afflicted. 


11. 2nd house the ruler of the right side and right leg is aspected by 
Rahu from sixth house and 2nd Lord Jupiter is in evil house 
aspected by malefics from sixth house. 


12. 2nd house of Sun and Moon and 2nd Lord are also afflicted. 


13. Aquarius sign being the twelfth house from the Sun and Moon is 
hemmed between malefics and the Lord of the house is debilitated 
and afflicted. 


Thus we find all the factors ruling Paralysis affected in this horoscope. 
He was attacked by Paralysis of his left leg and later his right leg was also 
attacked. The 12th house and the 12th lord are more afflicted than 2nd 
house and 2nd lord which suggests more attack on the left side, particu- 
larly on the left leg as Saturn significator for leg is also afflicted. 


100 Astrology and Diagnosis 
INSANITY 


Insanity is a condition very difficult to describe; brain disorder which 
is a physical symptom of the disease is merely one aspect of it; the other 
are lunacy, craziness, maniacal behaviour; such outward expressions are 
generally considered foolish, irrational, mad etc, and for assessing their 
relationship with the various planets one has to consider the intelligence, 
of the person as evident from the 5th house disposition and the position 
of the Sun. To go deeper into their causation, one has to understand that 
insanity may have a physical origin arising from damages in the brain 
cells, or it may have a psychological cause due to mal-functioning of the 
psyche of the person. In the former case, it is I st house representing Head, 
brain and thinking portion of the body which has to be considered; Mars 
connected with Blood circulation and nerves may be enquired into. Inthe 
latter case, it is the condition of the Moon which is significant. 


Consequent to the changes that have occurred in recent times in the 
economy and living style of the people, Insanity has now increased. 
Besides psychosis and neuro-psychosis simple, we have depressive 
mania, paranoia, meglomania and many other varieties of mental distur- 
bances . 


No doubt an astrologer who is devoted to the science gains through 
experience not only to prognosticate the malady into broad divisions. For 
instance, if it is Saturn and the Moon that are involved in the disturbance 
to be feared it has something to do with mental depression. Mars-Mercury 
affliction will produce a disease involving neurosis. 


The Moon has a very special in the structure of horoscope. Apart from 
enjoying the near status of Lagna, the Moon has pulls and pushes on blood 
stream and the blood supply to the brain is what keeps our thoughts in 
order. The Moon presides over mind as well. In these circumstances, the 
Moon's relationship with planets like Sun and Mercury have a bearing on 
the health and weakness of the mind. When the affliction arises through 
any particular relationship with Mercury or the two houses 3rd and 6th 
keeping in mind that while the Moon is friendly to Mercury, the latter is 
inimical to the former, it is the psyche that suffers. 


In cases of Insanity, there should be severe afflictions. Mars in a 
watery sign in the 3rd is most dangerous. The aspects between the Moon 
and Mercury must be adverse. Generally the Sr is !ficted. The last 
degree of Leo and Aquarius are usually ievoived 


Brain and Nerves 101 


MELANCHOLIA which precedes insanity follows the affliction of 
the Moon or Venus by Saturn. It may arise in the signs ruled by Jupiter. 
But the 3rd house is generally involved. The water signs make one moody. 
Capricorn is to be a significant indicator. Saturn should be afflicted and 
so should be Virgo. Mercury is capable of impairing the memory. 


The sun gives, if well placed, will-power and individuality. The Moon 
has a changeable and plastic nature. Mental ruler is Mercury. When the 
Moon is afflicted in the 3rd by Mercury, Saturn or Mars, there may be 
mental aberrations like INSANITY and MANIA. Mercury governs the 
mind, memory, intellect, intelligence, desire and knowledge. He is the 
chief indicator of all kinds of mental aberration and nervous disorders. An 
ill-dignified and ill-aspected Mars makes one impulsive and fickle. 


Before the relationship between astrological disposition of natal chart 
and mental illness is established, it is necessary to understand the nature 
and scope of the disorder. Astrological diagnosis is based upon symptoms 
of malady, and without a clear comprehension of these characteristics of 
the disease it would be unscientific to provide astrological support to the 
patient. 


At present there are so many diseases included under the broad 
category of mental disorder that the psychologists would find it rather 
impossible to find out a sane individual. Astrologically, every individual 
is bestowed with his individual uniqueness as such no abnormal insanity 
is associated with common man. 


Psychologically, mental deficiencies or retardation may imply Jack of 
powers associated with normal intellectual development resulting in an 
inability of the individual to function adequately in everyday life. This 
has reference to inadequacy in normal growth and development of the 
mind principle. In fact, the full and perfect development of the mind 
principles in an individual can take place when he is extremely and 
ruthlessly crystalline in nature, but in actual practice every human being 
has his deficiencies. 


INSANITY - ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS 


Sun roles over General Health and Lagna roles over Head. Moon roles 
over our mind and mental structure. Fifth house and Jupiter control over 
intelligence and Mercury controls over Nervous system. Affliction to 
these house and planets causes Insanity, mental disorder, weak thinking 


102 Astrology and Diagnosis 


power, loss of memory etc. WhenMoon, Mercury and lagna are afflicted, 
wesay the person possesses a weakhead, weak mental structure and weak 
nerve system. Under such conditions it is quite likely that one will suffer 
from Insanity or mental diseases. Weak brain, weak mind, weak power 
of thinking, weak nerve system, all these work towards mental disorder. 
Mesha Rashi is the first house of natural zodiac and also rules over the 
Head. Affliction to this house is bad for the head and brain. Rahu works 
for long sufferings and Jupiter works for recovery. When the above 
houses and Karaka planets become afflicted by Rahu it suggests long- 
time diseases and little chance of recovery, provided such Jupiter is 
benefic from the lagna, Sun, Moon etc. particularly from lagna. Sixth 
house and Kanya rashi role over diseases and affliction of the houses and 
planets concerning head, brain ete. by sixth house' sixth lord, Kanya rashi 
etc are capable of producing the diseases concerning the house in 
question. 


There are many combinations for Insanity and mental diseases given 
in Standard Books on Astrology. 1 am however giving below some of the 
combinations for the same. Of course, while applying these, one should 
consider whether the combining planets are benefics or malefics for the 
lagna and whether they have relation with disease-inflicting houses and 
planets. 


The Combinations are :- 


1. Sun in lagna and Mars in the seventh house. 
2: Saturn in lagna and Mars in fifth, seventh or ninth house. 
3. Lagna in initial portion of Dhanu rashi, Sun and Moon in kendra 


and Jupiter either in third house of Kendra. 


4. Weak Moon with Saturn in twelfth house. 
5. Jupiter in lagna and Mars or Saturn in the seventh house. 
6. Moon and Saturn in one house aspected by Mars. 


7. Moon strongly aspected by powerful Saturn or Rahu. 


Brain and Nerves 103 


8. Mars in the fourth house afflicted by Saturn. 
9, Saturn in the fourth house afflicted by Mars. 
10. Saturn in the fourth house with Rahu or Ketu. 


11. Moon conjoined with malefic and Rahu in the fifth, eighth, or 
twelfth house. 


12. Afflicted Mercury and Moon in Kendra without being in benefic 
navamsa. 


13. Saturn, Moon and Mars in Kendra. 
14. Sixth lord and Saturn in Lagna. 


15. Mars in sixth or eighth house aspected by or conjoined with 
powerful Mercury. 


16. Mercury conjoined with malefic in third, sixth, eighth ortwelfth 
house. 


17. Mars in third house afflicted by malefic. 


18. For Kanya and Meena lagna, Saturn or Rahuin Kanya especially 
in first part. 


PARALYSIS 


Meningitis, encephalitis, poliomyelitis, intracranial new growths are 
common cause of paralysis in young persons. Before commencing 
treatment, a correct diagnosis should be made. Serial cerebro-spinal fluid 
examination aids in diagnosis. 


Infections are contraindicated in poliomyelitis. Meningitis should be 
treated according to the causative organism. Viral diseases have no 
specific treatment. 


Recovery of paralysed muscles is generally slow. Proper physio- 
therapy by a qualified physio-therapist, besides general nourishment and 
vitamins will help. The Ayurvedic system of massage is also of great 
value, though little practised. Kottakal in Kerala is well known for 
Ayurvedic treatment. Dreaded Poliomyelitis is today easily preventible 
by administration of oral polio vaccine distributed free by the Govern- 
ment. 


104 Astrology and Diagnosis 
INFANTILE PARALYSIS 


Infantile paralysis or poliomyelitis is an acute infective disease 
caused by a virus. In some cases, there may be no symptoms while others 
show signs of sore throat or mild fever before the onset of paralysis. The 
first symptoms are fever, headache, sweating and vomiting. Pain in limbs 
and muscles is followed by paralysis which may affect any part of the 
body. 


Immediate and complete rest is necessary even when there is only a 
suspicion. This will help avoid severe paralysis. The treatment for 
respiratory paralysis is complicated and can be done only in well- 
equipped hospital. Physiotherapy, if done effectively by an expert, can 
bring many cases to normalcy where only the limbs are affected. 


Urine, faeces and nasal secretions contain the virus for at least six 


months fromthe day of attack. So it is advisable to isolate the patient from 
others. 


Salk vaccine should be given as routine drug. It is said that if given 
orally it is better than injection for preventing Polio. 


POLIOMYELITIS 


Poliomyelitis is caused by viruses which attack the nervous system. 
Children between 5 and 10 are the worst sufferers. Polio is divided into 
three categories. In the first type, the fever, headache and sore throat last 
only for three days and leave no residual effects. 


The second type is more severe. Besides the above mentioned 
symptoms, there will be stiffness of neck and vomiting. In the laterstage, 
the patient suffers from weakness of the limbs. 


The third type is called paralytic polio. This is the severest of all. 
Limbs are paralysed and unless the patient recovers within three months, 
the handicap remains permanent. 


Take the patient immediately to a hospital. A minimum of three 
week's rest is necessary. Contact with other children should be avoided 
for at least one month. All excreta should be burned. Eating utensils 
should be kept separate. Light diet is given. The limbs should be given 
rest at their natural position. Aspirin and hot water bags will help the 
patient endure the pain. 


Brain and Nerves 105 


For recovery from paralysis massage and passive exercises should be 
given first. Gradually, active exercises with slings could be tried. It may 
take nearly two years for complete recovery. Even then some surgical 
help may be necessary to stabilise the joints. 


The polio virus is still unconquered by medicine. However, there are 
oral vaccines for prevention. 


TYPES OF POLIOMYELITIS 


Three serological types of poliomyelitis virus have been isolated. 
Polio-myelitis may cause unapparent or severe paralysis of muscle 
groups, rendering the individual incapacitated for life. It can even prove 
fatal due to the involvement of centres in the brain stem. 


This dreadful disease is today preventable even without injections. 
Oral Polio vaccine is given by mouth. Every parent should consult the 
health authorities to know the centres from which this vaccine is 
available, or when the authorities would be able to make it available to 
the public. It is also distributed by many Government Hospitals, Red 
Cross Societies and other Welfare organisations. 


As anextremely low temperature is required to preserve the potency 
of the vaccine, strict measures for storage are essential. 


Every child must be given oral polio vaccine, even if the child has 
suffered from Polio, as three types of virus exist. Oral Polio vaccine gives 
rapid immunity and can be given even during an epidemic of Polio. If all 
children in a District or State are immunised, polio canbe eradicated from 
the place. Oral polio vaccine gives life-long immunity as the attenuated 
virus lives in the intestinal tract whereas several booster doses will be 
required with salk injectable vaccine every year or two, Even those who 
have taken Salk vaccine injections should take oral polio vaccine. 


PARALYSIS and POLIOMYELITIS or INFANTILE PARALY- 
SIS are caused by the affliction of Mercury, Sun, Moon, and lagna. Ninth 
house rules the limbs. Affliction to this house, lord of ninth house and 
Dhanu rashi the 9th house of natural zodiacalso give rise to these diseases. 
Mercury is primarily responsible for this disease. Any planet or house 
connected with the causes of paralysis by situation, conjunction, aspect, 
etc, give rise to paralysis in that part of the body ruled by the planet or 


106 Astrology and Diagnosis 


house. When Sun is heavily afflicted and is in a house of malefic, and 
lagna and Mercury are also afflicted, paralysis may appear. When sixth 
house lagna and Mercury are afflicted and Saturn be in an airy sign, these 
may give rise to paralysis. When Moon and Mercury join Saturn or Rahu 
and be aspected by Saturn or Rahu, and if lagna be afflicted or lord of lagna 
be afflicted, these may give rise to paralysis. If Mercury is weak is 
defeated inplanetary fight or is afflicted and is in dusthana, it will damage 
the entire system of nerves. When at the same time Lagna or Lord of lagna 
or Sun or Moonbe afflicted it may produce similar diseases. Saturn causes 
diseases of feet; Venus causes diseases of face, Sun affects the wholw 
body; and Mars causes all paralytica] strokes. 


The leftsideis ruled by the houses from eighth to twelfth and right side 
is ruled by the houses from second to sixth. 


Right leg is ruled by second house and left is ruled by 12th house. 


Third house roles the right hand and eleventh house roles the left hand. 
Face, tongue, etc are ruled by the second house and son on. To find the 
exact location of the disease these houses and Karakas ruling parts of the 
body are to be taken in to consideration. 


PISHAACHA BAADHA 


Possession of an evil spirit is a malady which causes mental illness. 
This aspect of a mental disorder should not be overlooked. This type is 
not covered by medical researches conducted so far. What is Spirit ? How 
could that force be driven out or controlled ? Why should it interfere in 
the affairs of living beings ? These are questions on which medical science 
should bestow attention and conduct extensive researches. 


But the sages have already perceived the effects of these spirits. It is 
only to chanellise the efforts of these spirits of the departed along good 
directions facilitating their further evolution, certain ritualistic ceremo- 
nies are prescribed in Shastras. If these are scrupulously followed the 
spirits of the departed will not trouble us. 


Some of the mental disorders are the result of some evil spirits - 
generally the souls leaving their mortal coils due to suicide, accidents etc 
will linger long in the terrestrial plane and try to harm by possessing the 
human beings. Persons dying without their passions gratified are also 
responsible for doing harm to others, even after their death. Such 
disorders or affliction by evil spirits are generally denoted by Ketu, Rahu 


Brain and Nerves 107 


and Saturn. Yogas are extant in Astrology under the names of 
Pishachagrasta Yoga, Vatroga, yoga, Matibhrama Yoga etc. Some of the 
planetary combinations mentioned are enough to bring the theory clearly 
but others need modification in the changed conditions of living. The 
present day conditions are very complex and the human mind is subject 
to numerous stresses which are enough to create previously unknown 
causes of many mental illnesses. Association of Nodes is very important 
in considering some of these combinations responsible for mental 
diseases. When Rahu is in Lagna with the Moon while malefics occupy 
the trines, the yoga thus resulting by name Pishacha grasta is described, 
under which the person is noted to suffer from the attacks of spirits. 
Although the attacks of spirits is most unscientific to speak now when 
para-psychologists are busy with their theories, it stands to reason that the 
Moon's Node called RAHU is a very sensitive point, as sensitive as that 
of the Moon if not more and their proper disposition is very necessary item 
in horoscopes. Their nature is different from Moon and the Nodes have 
been considered to be undesirable in Lagna, for Rahu in Lagna is as good 
as Saturn and Ketu similarly represents the shadow aspect of Mars, hence 
the Rahu-Ketu axis with Lagna and the 7th house is much afflicted. Rahu 
is more materialistic and Ketu mostly renders the person highly egoistic 
when in Lagna and practices renunciation when in the 12th both making 
one almost a psychopath. 


One will be haunted by spirits when one has Saturn and Rahu in the 
Ascendant, Rahu is said to be Shanivat and when this is reinforced by the 
disposition of Saturn himself the adversity if powerful to render the body 
highly affected by Vata. When the body is affected by Vata, the mind is 
also rendered weak subject to other adversities and the wind pressure on 
the nervous system will be more powerful perhaps. driving the whole 
system. 

INSANITY 
In this horoscope we find:- 


{, Weak Moon (very close to New 


Moon) is in 5th house conjoined 
with malefic Sun and Mercury and 
is aspected by sixth lord Mars from 


Virgo and is devoid of any benefic 
aspect. Moreover Mercury is lord 
of 8th house, who is afflicting 
Moon. 


108 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Sun is afflicted by malefic Mars and Mercury, lords of 6th and 8th 
house respectively. 


Mercury is debilitated and is afflicted by sixth lord Mars. Moreover 
it is within | degree of Sun and hence is defeated in planetary War. 


4, Virgo and Pisces, both sensitive signs, are afflicted. 


5, Aries sign is afflicted by aspect of Satur t and Rahu, and Lord 
Mars is in sixth house therefrom. 


6. Lord of Lagna is aspected by malefic Saturn and Mercury. 
Further he is lord of sixth house and is in Virgo sign. 


7. Fifth house from Lagna, Sun and Moon are afflicted. 


Thus we find Sun, Moon, Mercury, Lord of Lagna, Aries sign, fifth 
house, all are afflicted and rather well aspected by strong benefic Jupiter. 
The person was attacked from INSANITY in the main period of Venus 
and sub-period of Mercury. Venus is malefic from Lagna, Sun and Moon 
and is afflicted by malefics. In Venus dasha, during bhukti of Saturn, 
Venus gives her own result and strangely enough, this native contacted 
bad women and suffered from Venereal Disease in Saturn bhukti of Venus 
Dasa and this resulted into INSANITY in bhukti of Mercury. 


In this horoscope Venus is lord of 7th and 12th houses and lord of 8th 
house from Sun and Moon, is strong malefic. Furthermore, she is badly 
afflicted by Saturn and Rahu. This justifies his contact with bad women 
and suffered from venereal disease. Mercury is lord of 8th house and is 
in mutual kendra with 6th lord and Lagna lord Mars, which suggest illness 
in Mercury bhukti as sixth lord Mars is capable of giving result in Mercury 
bhukti. 


This is a case of Insanity. In this 
horoscope, we find : 


1. Weak Moon is conjoined with 
Malefics Sun and Mercury. Jupi- 
ter beinglord of Kendra is a malefic 
for this horoscope and his con- 
junction could not nullify the af 
fliction. 


14. 


Brain and Nerves 109 


Weak Moon is conjoined with malefic and Rahu is in 12th house 
from the Moon. 


Saturn is in Lagna and Mars is in the 5th house. 

Virgo is the Ascendant and Saturn and Rahu are posited there. 
Mars, the lord of 8th house is in 5th house aspected by Rahu. 
Lord of the 5th house, Saturn is in Virgo with Rahu. 

Sun is debilitated and is with malefics, aspected by Rahu. 
Mercury is afflicted by conjunction with Sun, aspected by Rahu. 


Sixth lord Saturn is in Lagna and Jupiter, 6th lord from the Sun 
and Moon is with Sun and Moon. 


Sixth house is hemmed in between Mars and Ketu. 


The Ascendant and all the planets being in between Ketu and 
Rahu, have formed Kala-Sarpa Yoga. 


Aries sign is aspected by malefics. 


Jupiter is conjoined with malefics. He is also malefic from 
Lagna, Sun and Moon. 


Sixth house from Sun and Moon is afflicted. 


There are many combinations to form Insanity. Lagna, Moon, Sun, 


Mercury, Jupiter, all are afflicted, particularly Lagna, is heavily afflicted. 
This woman became insane as soon as the Saturn crossed Virgo sign and 
entered Libra in transit afflictingLagna, Sun, Moon, Mercury and Jupiter. 
Before the attack of Insanity her uterus was operated. She had Tumor in 
uterus. She suffered from menstrual troubles. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


TOTAL INSANITY 
BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


YeExX CSO 


Girl born on 14.2.1949. Balance of Venus Dasa atbirth 12Y.6.m. The 
permitations and combinations of planets and the status of the Moon as 
well as the sign Virgo and its lord Mercury will give a very clear idea that 
this is a case of total insanity. She became totally insane in the major 
period of Moon and sub-period of Mars. 


She is ina Asylum now. 
BIRTH CHART aw, 


YEX| PK 
XOX BX 


He was mentally deranged after a financial loss and after the birth of the 
only son in 1921. 


The 5th house has Papa-kartari yoga while 2nd has malefic influence of 
Venus. The lord of the 2nd is subject to the malefic aspect of Saturn who 


Brain and Nerves 111 


is conjunct Uranus in the house of happiness (4th bhava). This happened 
in the major period of Saturn who is in the 4th. 


An eminent Lawyer bom on 10.5.1924. Balance of Saturn dasa at birth 
10 years and 8 days. 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


Mercury lord of the 8th and the 11th is in the 6th retrograde and is 
aspected by Saturn fromthe 12th house, his place of exaltation, retrograde 
and thus in debility. On the principle of one retrograde planet aspecting 
another retrograde planet is ruinous and since Saturn, after all in his house 
of exaltation, it is Mercury that should suffer more. Exalted Mars casts 
his inimical aspect on Mercury in his inimical house in the 6th too’. His 
navamsa lord and Nakshatra lord Venus is in the 8th house,‘a neuro 
sensitive sign. Soon after sade-sati commenced, he became not only 
Neurotic but violent and had to be restrained in a lunatic asylum where 
he shall remain. 


A case of Insanity for a short while, culminating in Suicide. 


Lagna is occupied by Saturn who is also the 6th lord and the 7th 

contains Neptune the malefic. The Sth and 8th lord Jupiter obtain 
debilitation Navamsa and Maraka is also with Badhaka lord Mars 
occupying evil place and aspected by the 6th lord Saturn. Venus Karaka 
of Sex is aspected by Uranus from the Badhaka house Neptune, the 
chaotic malefic, occupies the house of sex and is aspected by S aturn 
while Mars aspects the 6th. It is waning Moon in the 12th and 8th from 
Venus. The picture is complete for Insanity stemming from sex guilt 


112 Astrology and Diagnosis 


or is of libidinal origin. Neptune 
position inthe 7th (libido) which is 
also the 8th house from the Moon 


and the weakness of the 8th lord, 
brought about the tragic End. 


«xX PARANOIA of a temporary nat- 


ure. 
BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


SO RX 


PEK] DOK 


Artist of International repute who is recipient of Padmashri award. 
Balance of Jupiter Mahadasa at birth - 7.y .6.m. 29 days. 


The Moon-Ketu combination occurs in Gemini, which is also a 
Badhaka-sthana. Saturnfrom the 8th aspects Virgo and its lord Mercury. 
He has a talented wife and the two of them were popularsocialities. With 
the commencement of Ketu Mahadasa, he started suspecting the fidelity 
of this virtuous woman and played havoc not only in the family life but 
along with every man found as much as talking to her. He even used a 
knife on one of them. While in Venus he is milder, he has not yet worn 
off the suspicious nature altogether. 


Brain and Nerves 113 


DEPRESSIVE MENAIC 


BIRTH CHART 


NG x 


XOX UX 


NAVAMSA 


ZR 


Bom on 21.5.1950. Balance of Jupiter Dasa at birth: 7y.7m.28days. 


Watch the Badhaka Moon in Gemini and Mars-Ketu combination in 
sensitive Virgo with the lord Mercury in the 6th, retrograde. In Navamsa 
too Gemini and Virgo are occupied by malefic Moon (inimical house) and 
malefic Saturn respectively, with Mercury in inimical sign Sagittarius. 
With the commencement of Sade-Sati he became a Depresive Maniac. 
This should prove a temporary phase. 


OX 


This is a case of MENINGITIS. 
Karaka Sun is conjoined with 6th 
lord and malefic Saturn. Further Sun 
is aspected by Mars. 


Karaka Mars is afflicted by 6th lord 

Saturn and also by malefic Rahu. 
Mars and Sun are in opposition and 

are connected with 6th lord Saturn. 

Lord of Lagna is afflicted by con- 

junction with 6th lord Saturn. Thus 

we find the planets ruling the disease 
of Meningitis are afflicted in the 

horoscope. 


114 Astrology and Diagnosis 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


BOX 
SX 


Balance of Venus Dasha at birth - 13 yrs. 8 ms.3 days. 
Satum in retrograde. 


This is the chart of a lady suffering from MENINGITIS. Ascendant 
cusp is afflicted by the 12th lord and malefic Saturn. Ascendant lord is 
debilitated. The Moon is excited by the square aspect of Mars, the 4th lord 
Mercury conjoins Rahu.. Thus the 1st house (Brain) and the 4th house 
(Emotions are well afflicted). Whenever she gets the meningitis attack, 
she loses consciousness for days continuously. She suffered several 
attacks in the Moon's period. The Moon occupies the star Venus lord and 
occupant of the 8th house. Some times her condition causes anxiety. 


This person is suffering from BRAIN TUMOUR and who ultimately 
died in operation. He also suffered from loss ofa sight of his right 
eye. The reasons for the disease are :- 


1. Lord of Lagna Jupiter is retro- 
grade and is also malefic being 
Lord of Quadrants and further he 
is in Virgo sign conjoined with 
malefics Saturn and Rahu. 


2. Sun, significator for Head is in 
Pisces sign with Ketu and is 
aspected by malefics Saturn and 
Rahu. Jupiter's aspect could not 
nullify the malefic influence as he 
is also a malefic from Lagna and 
Sun both. 

3. Mars, another significator, is in evil house aspected by Maraka Saturn. 


Brain and Nerves 115 


4. Aries sign is conjoined with malefic Moon and is also 
conjoined with Venus, who is amalefic from Lagna and Moon 
is 8th lord from Lagna. 


5. Lord of the sign where Moon is situated is in the 8th house (house 
of death) aspected by Saturn from 6th house. 


6. Jupiter, lord of the sign where Sun is situated is in Virgo sign 
(sixth house of natural zodiac) with two strong malefics. 


7. Two watery signs Scorpio and Pisces are afflicted. (Watery 
signs rule the diseases connecting blood). 


8. Second house, Second lord and Sun all being ruler of right 
eye are afflicted. 


9. Second house from Moon and Sun are afflicted. 


The affliction of Lord of Lagna, Sun, Moon and Mars justify the 
disease of TUMOUR in Head. Mars situation and affliction justify the 
death in operation. The affliction of 2nd house, 2nd lord and Sun caused 
the loss of sight of right eye. 


This is a case of EPILEPSY. The reason are:- 


1. Mercury is debilitated and con- 
joined with Mars and Rahu. More- 
over it is the lord of the sixth 
house. 

2.Moon is afflictedby conjunction 
of Saturn. 

3. Pisces is a sensitive sign, is af 
flicted. Virgo another sensitive 
sign is also afflicted. 


4. Lord of the sign where the Sun is situated is with sixth lord there 
from and is also conjoined with Rahu and is in evil house. 


The native suffered from fits and Nerve complaints in her 
Rahu Dasa. Here in this horoscope both Moon and Mercury are afflicted. 
Mercury is particularly heavily afflicted. If Saturn would not be the 


116 Astrology and Diagnosis 

of Lagna and if there would have been no aspect of such powerful Jupiter 
over Lagna Moon and Mercury, she would have been a victim of worst 
suffering. With the coming Jupiter Dasa, she has been relieved of this 
disease. Jupiter aspecting the determinants of the disease in his ownhouse 
suggests recovery. 


This is a case of POLIOMYELI- 
TIS. The reason are:- 
1. The Ascendant is afflicted by con- 
junction of malefic Rahu. Sun is in 
I 


12th house and is hemmed in be- 
UP tween malefics and is also aspected 
S KETU by malefics. Moon is aspected by 
Via Yoox malefic Saturn powerfully from 
her own house. 
2. Mercury is debilitated and conjoined with malefic and 12th lord 
Mars. 


3. Second and Twelfth houses are afflicted. 


4. Ninth houses from Lagna and Moon are afflicted. Ninth lord from 
the Sun is conjoined with malefic Ketu and is in evil house from the 
Sun. 


5. The Ascendant, Mercury and Saturn are aspected by Lord of evil 
house Moon and Sun are aspected by Saturn, a disease inflicting 
planet. 


Thus we see that factors capable of giving rise to the disease are 
present in this horoscope. The Ascendant being afflicted by strong 
malefic Rahu and the significator for the Ascendant Sun and also Aries 
sign both being afflicted by Saturn suggest the affliction of the whole 
body. 


A boy bom on August 24,1950 at 11 p.m. Bombay. 
Balance of Sun's mahadasha at birth-years 3-8-21 


In the chart under discussion Lagna-Lord Venus occupies the weak3rd 


Brain and Nerves 117 
wy, 7, 


and is contaminated by the company of Mandi. For the latter reason the 
Moon too is vitiated. Thus the body and the mind of the native are inbuilt, 
at the outset, with dis ability. Mars the maraka lord fromthe 6th, the house 
of sickness, aspects Lagna, the head and brain and the Moon the mind. 
Saturn although yoga-karaka, is deprived of his power by reason of 
occupying enemy's house and he changes face as Mr.Hyde in his capacity 
as Budhaka-lord and stunts the inherent power of body represented by the 
Sun. Ketu and Neptune in the 5th keeping company of Mercury, eat up 
intelligence. Uranus in the 2nd constraints the tongue and speech. 


The Indian Texts have this general law of diagnosis of ill-health from 
either natal or Prasana chart. 


Tory Aig AM TIANA F See: 

eT: Torches May: FET: AAT TART: | 
TAMAS TT afaar: gay gerard 
TTRTAATA: WME HEM: SF A GA FAT 


"The weakest among malefics occupying the 6th, the 12th, the 7th, the 
4th, the Ist, the 9th and ill-placed benefics in the 6th, the 8th and the 12th 
and the worst enemy of the Lagna-lord among them takes the lead in 
inflicting the disease or death. The company of the Moon releases them 
from constraints". Uranus in the 6th house, coupled with other weak- 
nesses , causes diseases of psycho-physical character which usually defies 
medical analysis. The parts of the body afflicted are to be seen from the 
planets. 


118 Astrology and Diagnosis 


geld afte ea aan ow aad PH TAGE | 


"The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and Rahu, 
when ill-placed afflict the stomach, heart, head, chest, thigh, mouth, 
knees and the feet respectively”. 


The root-cause of INSANITY is elucidated as follows :- 


‘wayerernlian: Tea ae 
Fearemnfte-avareier one gfe FRR 


"Should the ill-placed planets be the Moon, Venus and forthe 8th lord, 
insanity-has.been Kindled by eating poisonous food". 


aque oft gaty Say arghe sos: | 


"Should in the above combination Rahu, Ketu and Mandi too figure 


the complaint should be traced to eating unclean or forbidden food”. 


aod Tears if Se: 1 


Should malefics occupy the Sth in this content, the Cause of the 
malady is traceable to excessive fear or discontent: 


TAHT: | 
Should Mars figure (in the Sth), it has arisen from excessive anger. 


antral: TSAayy: | 
It has arisen from necromancy should a malefic occupy the 6th. 
Taiaeeyd: TY AT TeTS | 


It has arisen from the curse of preceptors and elders when the 9th contains 
malefic. 


Brain and Nerves 119 


We can add from our experience that, should Venus and the 7th house be 
visited by Mars, Mandi, Uranus, Neptune, etc. Malady owes to sexual 
frustration is libidinal. NEPTUNE and URANUS point to the Uncon- 
scious layer ofthe mind. 


Should in this combination the 8th or the house occupied by the 8th 
lord happens to the CANCER, death Through insanity should be 
predicated according to MANTRESHWARA. 


Ourancients were fully aware of the interaction between the functions 
of the body and the mind. And they had codified the rule : 


wm: feaferen: sear: Proarry fered: | 
Pron: srétten: syez PRP ATST: 1) 


"Iliness is of two kinds. Congenital and Accidental. The first arises from 
the body or the mind. It is also acquired by curses, spells, accidents and 
planets in adverse places. 


They also held that physical illness arises from the three humours. Vata, 
Pitta and Kapha, individually and collectively. 


On mental illness they said : 


Berea wears PAT ATE: | 


Mental illness arises from the excessive emotions of anger, fear or 
sorrow. It follows from the above discussion that health being an 
integrated factor of life comprising both the body and the mind in the 
astrological chart should be well disposed. 


The sensitive areas in a horoscope in the context of health is thus 
pervasive. The Ist house as denoting the body, the 4th as denoting Sukha, 
the 5th as denoting the mind, the 6th sickness, the 7th (Chittotha) sex of 
libido, the 8th Longevity, the 9th acquired merit, and the 12th the end of 
life are all involved. Even so, are all the planets, some to a greater extent 
and others to a less extent, involved. That made the ancients say : 


AT: TE: TT YS HAY TAT: | WT: FT FAM. eeeeeeees N 


120 Ast: ology and Diagnosis 


Planets in good places promote good health and those in bad place 
cause illness. Among the Katakas, the Sun as representing the body or 
soul and the Moon representing the mind, gain primary of place in a 
consideration of this character. Next comes Mercury, the son of the Moon 
(or the mind) or intelligence. The black forces that have a penchant for 
disturbing the balance of life are the malefics Mars, Saturn, Rahu and 
Ketu, Mandi (son of Saturn), Uranus and Neptune. It goes without saying 
that the placement of functionally beneficial planets in favourable houses 
ensure good health and their opposite the reverse. 


Ketu and Rahu are the lower minds or the subconscious. 


The planet Mars refers to the head or cerebrum indicating trouble in 
its function. He is also Pitta among the doshas. Mercury is a mixture of 
all the three doshas. The Moon's affliction denotes arterial disturbances 
too. Jupiter is Kapha and Saturn Vata. In fact, most of the sensitive areas 
and planets are adversely disposed, including Lagna-lord and the Moon. 
Hence it is a case of organic mental retardation. 


MAHADEVA has a Sutra : " Saturn, the Moon and Gulika occupying 
Kendra make one dull-witted". It is said : 


MTPTATaTANe AAT SST: | 
FA: TS TAMA AKT ASTI AT Ul 


"Should the 6th lord, its occupant or aspecting planet be involved, 
affliction should emanate from Curse, Spell, accident etc." Further : 


Ta TS IMI: Waa: 


"Should the 8th lord aspect the 6th, the curse becomes a compulsive 
force" Generally in the Prasna as well as the natal chart, a state of good 
health is indicated when malefics occupy the 11th and the 3rd, benefics 
occupy places other than the 3rd, the 6th, the 12th and the 8th; Mandi 
occupies places otherthan trine, angles and the 8th. Contrary dispositions 
indicate contrary results. The house of physical ill-health should be 
gleaned this way : 


RVAq AAI ARS TTA 


Brain and Nerves 121 


That is, when the affliction is to the 8th house, by its lord, by the planet 
aspecting it or occupying it, it is physical ill-health. 


The mental base, however, should be diagnosed when : 
Tarrirre Fret at evoke: | 
That is, by the combination of the 5th lord (or the Moon) with the 8th 
lord in one of the five ways of Sambhandha, like aspect, being together, 
mutual exchange, etc. Adhi or mental pain is a synonym for Randhra. 


Among the functional disorders of the brain or mind psychoses or 
insanity has been discussed threadbare by the ancients. 


CHAPTER 11 


FACE AND THROAT 
EYE - DISEASES 


Of all the human organs Eyes are of utmost importance. It is a very 
important organ of the human organism. It provides a window into the 
external universe. We cannot view the mysteries of the Universe, 
wonderful creation of the world and other sights necessary forthe pleasant 
sailing in the woeful ocean - the human life. A blind man always feels 
disgusted. He is helpless and always in want of a guide to aid him and often 
he is a disgruntled person. Life is a great burden for him. This is one of 
the greatest handicap in his life and this creates an inferiority complex. 


Now-a-days we find Myopia, blindness, cataract and the like becom- 
ing frequent. The incidence of eye-diseases can be decreased consider- 
ably if we know how these can be prevented. One such way to knowledge 
is to consult the Eye specialist at frequent but regular intervals. But even 
he can be helped largely by an insight into the problem as prescribed by 
an astrological analysis of the chart of his consultant. 


MYOPIA 


Myopia or short sight, indicates a condition of eye in which parallel 
rays come to a focus in front of retina. Most of the cases of myopia are 
due to variation in the frequency curve of axial length. 


Simple cases of myopia do not progress after adolescence. Some cases 
appear to be hereditary. The only symptom may be indistinct distant 
vision. In high myopia discomfort after work involving close range 
vision, sensivity to light and headaches are common. Black spots and 
flashes of light may be seen in front of the eyes. 


Treatment consists of using suitable lenses after the degree of 
infraction has been tested, children having faulty vision should particu- 
larly wear glasses constantly. Contact glasses may be useful in some 
cases. General health should be well maintained. Work should be done 
under correct illumination and from a correct position. 


CONJUNCTIVITIS 


Inflammation of the conjunctive is known as conjunctivitis. It ma y be 
due to allergy or infection by bacteria like tubercular Bacillus. In an acute 


Face and Throat 123 


attack, frequent washing of the conjunctive with mild boric lotion and 
application of albucid drops will help. 


Membranous conjunctivitis may be due to streptococcus and diphthe- 
ria. Local application of penicillin drops and penicillin injections along 
with anti-diphtheric serum is advised. 


If the attack is not treated, it may become chronic conjunctivitis. 
Continuous irritation by dust or smoke is the usual cause for this. Apart 
from the above treatment eyes should be tested for errors of refraction. 


If chronic sinusitis is also present, treatment for that has to be carried out 
separately. 


KERATITIS 


Inflammation of the cornea is known as Keratitis. The infection may 
spread from other parts of the eye or directly from outside. Occasionally, 
allergic conditions are known to occur. The ulcer may be superficial or 
deep. 


The symptoms are watering of the eye, pain, inability to look at light 
and closure of lids. The ulcer may heal leaving a scar. 


Sometimes the ulcer perforated and complications start. There may 
be bleeding and severe infection. In uncomplicated cases washing with 
a mild lotion thrice a day and atropine eye-drops should be given along 
with anti-biotic eye-ointments. 


In severe cases cortosone may be necessary. Other surgical interfer- 
ence may be necessary depending on the severity of the complication. 
When a thin scar is removed lamellar keratoplasty and when the scar is 
thick full normal graft may be necessary. 


CATARACT 


Any opacity in the lense is called Cataract. Acquired cataract is due 
to the degeneration of lens fibres. Cataract usually occurs after the age of 
45. In diabetes it may occur earlier. 


Generally cataract appears in both the eyes, though it may develop 
earlier in one eye. Genetic influences appear to be definitely present. 


Seeing spots before the eye and diplopia are some of the early symptoms. 
Diminished visual acuity progresses. 


The refraction changes often with considerable degree which require 


124 Astrology and Diagnosis 


correction. The only treatment is the removal by operation when the 
cataract has become mature. 


DIPLOPIA 


Seeing objects double is known as diplopia. Normally the two eyes 
view an object from different angles and later the images combined by 
visual centres in the brain. When this does not happen, there is diplopia. 
It may be in one or both eyes. 


Dislocation of the lens, cataract, corneal ulcers and retinal detach- 
ment are some of the conditions that can cause uniocular diplopia. 


Convergent squint, migraine, tumour in the orbit and various other 
diseases cause binocular diplopia. 


Diplopia requires a thorough check up. 
NIGHT BLINDNESS 


Night blindness occurs in erophithalmia and retinitis pigmentosa. 
Rarely several persons in the same family may be affected. The disease 
is due to the deficiency in visual purple in the retina. 


It is due to deficiency of Vitamin A, Cod Liver oil will cure the 
condition. Sometimes cirrhosis of the liver gives rise to night blindness*. 


The eye is a complicated organ, and its afflictions do sometimes 
involve the nervous and circulatory systems. In Astrology the Sun is said 
to regulate the right eye while the lefteye is underthe control of the Moon. 
Venus too is associated with eyesight. Ketu is another. Cataract is usually 
referred to Rahu. Mars has sore eye and Saturn has blindness. 


Sun is the great light and the Moon his reflex. They are the giver of 
eye-sight. To have clear eyes both the luminaries must be unaffected in 
a chart. They should not be posited in Dusthanas-6th, the 8th and the 12th 
houses. They should not be weak or aspected by malefics like Saturn, 
Mars, etc. The 2nd, the 12th are the houses of sight. These or their 
opposites should not be occupied by the malefics. Sun and Mars govern 
eyesight. Mars represents eye-diseases. The 2nd stands for right eye and 
the 12th for the left. If the 2nd and 12th houses be occupied by the Sun 
and the Moon or aspected by them, the person suffers from eye-diseases. 


A reference to our ancient Texts yields many interesting combina- 
tions of planets. Mars in the 12th is said to afflict the right eye while Saturn 
in the same afflicts the left. 


Face and Throat 125 


When Sun and Moon are in the 12th house and malefics are in the 6th 
or 8th the result is taken to be Blindness. 


Being the seat of the Sun, of all signs, Leo sign has got more 
governance over eyesight. Varah Mihira declares that Saturn and Mars 
aspecting the Sun and the Moon in the Leo Ascendant, bring forth a blind 
child. If the same Lagna is aspected by benefics also, clear sight is the 
outcome. 


The Moon in Lagna excepting Aries, Taurus and Cancer causes 
Blindness or defects in the eyes. Short-sight is indicated by Venus and 
Saturn be together at birth. Jupiter conjunct Saturn is bad for eyes. 


The following planetary positions indicate sickness of eyes and 
Defective Vision. 


(1) Mars in the second house, Moon in the 6th, Sun in the 8th and Saturn 
in the 9th. 


(2) The combination of Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn give 
rise to eye diseases. 


(3) Moon in the sixth and Mars in the second house. 

(4) Sun in the 8th and Saturn in the 9th house. 

(5) Jupiter, Mercury and Sun, or Jupiter, Mars and the Sun in the 8th. 
(6) Sun and Saturn in the 9th house. 

(7) Sun and Moon in the 9th house. 


(8) Moon and Mars or Moon and Saturn, without any benefic connec 
tions posited in the 6th or 8th house. 


(9) Sun in the Sth or 9th house aspected by malefics. 
(10) Rahu in the Lagna and the Sun in the 7th. 


(11) Mars and Saturnposited in the 12th, 2nd or 8th house without 
benefic connections. 


(12) Sun posited in Lagna in Leo causes diseases of the eye. 


Tumour of the eye comes fromthe Sun and the Moon in the Ascendant. 
Defective eye results from the Sun being in 5,9, or 12th with malefics. Lords 
of the Lagna and the 8th in the sixth house spoil the right eye. 


126 Astrology and Diagnosis 


The following combinations are indicative of different varieties of the 
diseases of the eye. 


1. Sun and Moon are afflicted by Mars and Saturn. 

2. Conjunction of Mars and Saturn in 6 or 8. 

3. Conjunction of the lord of second with Saturn, Mandi and Gulika. 
4 


The Sun and the Moon in | or 7 aspected by or conjoined with Saturn 
or Rahu or Mars. 


5. Conjunction ofMars and Saturn in the 2nd with the lord of that house. 
Lords of I and 2 in conjunction in a malefic house. 
Conjunction of Venus with lords of 5 and 6. 
Afflicted Sun in Cancer which should be the Ascendant. 


The native will not have sight during night time when the lord of the 
second bhava, Venus and Moon occupy the Ascendant. 


Rahu and the Sunin the same degree in Ascendant will give rise to eye 
troubles, usually giving perplexed looks. 


The Sun and the Moon in 12th house give eye troubles when the lord 
ofthe 12th house is in the Ascendant. Blindness occurs or virulency of the 
disease takes place when the 6th and the 8th house are occupied by 
malefic planets. 


There are some sensitive points concerning the eye. These are around 
the 15th degrees of Aries and Libra, 20th degrees of Virgo and Pisces and 
10th and 11th degree of Taurus and Scorpio. The last have a good deal 
to do with the OPTICAL NERVES. 


CATARACT cases show afflictions to the 20th degrees of Virgo & 
Pisces. 


COLOUR BLINDNESS involves the 23rd degrees of Aries and 
Libra and the 11th degrees of Taurus and Scorpio. 


GLAUCOMA usually shows the first 3 degrees of Cancer and 
Capricorn afflicted badly. 


MYOPIA - in any case of myopia we find Mercury afflicted because 
he governs the nervous system. When Mercury is afflicted by Mars and 


Face and Throat 127 


when Aries or Scorpio is involved, there may be SQUINT. 


CATARACT cases usually show afflictions to Mercury and the 
Moon. The conjunction of Mars and Jupiter in Virgo, and of Moon and 
Mars are also sometimes found to be responsible for this. 


Eye complaints spring up generally during Rahu bhukti in Sun's 
Dasha, Sun bhukti in Rahu Dasha. Mars bhukti in Rahu's dasha, Saturn 
bhukti in Jupiter's dasha, Sun's bhukti in Saturn'sdasha and Moon's bhukti 
in Mercury's Mahadasha. 


EYE DISEASES 


The right eye is judged fromthe second house and Sun, while left one 
is from twelfth house and Moon. Venus is the Karaka for eye sight. Rahu 
rules over the cataract in the eyes. When the second and twelfth houses, 
their lords and the Karakas, namely Sun, Moon and Venus are afflicted 
or badly placed, it causes eye trouble, loss of sight, ulcer in the eyes etc. 
The influence of the benefics minimises the trouble, while influence of 
the malefics increases the same. The Taurus sign, being the second house 
of the natural zodiac, also rules over right eye and Pisces sign twelfth 
house of the natural zodiac, roles over the left eye. 


When malefics pass over the houses representing the eyes or afflicts 
the planets ruling the eyes, they cause harm to the eye ruled by the house 
or planet afflicted. When malefics pass overall the houses ruling eyes and 
also over Sun, Moon and Venus in transit or aspect them, they a fleet both 
the eyes. If the houses and planets ruling over eyes are afflicted by 
malefics in natal chart, the transitory affliction causes more harm. 


There are many combinations for eye troubles, of which following 
are important: 


1. Sunin the twelfth house harms the right eye and Moon inthe twelfth 
house harms the left eye. 


2. IfSun and Moon are afflicted by Saturn and Mars, they cause harm 
to the eyes. 


Sun in the eighth house causes disease in the right eye. 
Saturn and Mars in the sixth or eighth house cause harm to the eyes. 


Sun in Cancer Lagna makes right eye-sight weak. 


nuk w 


Malefics in the sixth house harm the left eye and in the eighth house 
harm the right eye. 


128 


10. 


ll. 


12. 


13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 


17. 


18. 
19, 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 


25. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


Sun in Lagna or seventh house aspected by or conjoined with either 
Saturn or Rahu and also with Mars affects the right eye and in case 
of Moon under such conditions, the left eye is affected. 


If Sun and malefic Moon be in dusthana, they cause harm to the 
respective eye ruled by them. 


If Saturn be with Mars and Moon be in dusthana, eye sight become 
defective. 


If second lord with lord of Lagna be in dusthana, it makes one short 
of eye-sight. 


Moon or Rahu in 12th house, Saturn in trikona and Sun in the 7th 
bouse or 8th house in a malefic in a malefic navamsa cause eye 
diseases. 


Sun and Moon in any order in sixth and twelfth houses causes eye .. 
disease. 


Afflicted Sun in Cancer Sign causes cataract in the eye. 
Afflicted Sun in Lagna causes eye trouble. 
If Venus be with fifth or sixth lords, She causes defect in eye-sight. 


Saturn and Mars in second house or with second lord cause eye- 
disease. 


If many planets be in second house aspected by Saturn, they cause 
defect in eye sight. 


Sun and Moon in the ninth house cause eye trouble. 

Venus and Saturn in one house cause defect in eye. 

Sun, Venus and Jupiter in one house cause eye trouble. 

Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Mercury in one house causes eye trouble. 
If Satum or Ketu be in the 8th house, it causes eye disease. 
Rahu in 12t house causes eye diseases. 


If Moon be with malefic and Venus be in 2nd house, they cause eye 
disease. 


Mars in the 12th house affects the left eye and Saturn in the second 
house affects the right eye. 


Face and Throat 129 


26. Weak Moon in the eighth house aspected by strong Saturn inflicts 
severe eye disease. 


27. Sun and Moon in 2nd house cause NIGHT BLINDNESS. 


28. If lord of Eye be with Venus, be in any house of Venus, of in her 
exaltation house and be related to the lord, of Lagna by conjunction 
or aspect, it causes NIGHT BLINDNESS. 


29. Sun in Tula Lagna causes NIGHT BLINDNESS. 
30. Afflicted Sun in Simha rashi causes NIGHT BLINDNESS. 
GLAUCOMA 


Glaucoma is a condition where there is increase in intraocular 
pressure. Two types of primary glaucoma are known; closed angle 
glaucoma and simple glaucoma. Closed angle glaucoma is common in 
women above 45.The usual symptoms in the early stages, are blurring of 
vision, headache and appearance of halos around lights. 


Later, the eyes become congested and there will be severe pain and 
diminution of vision. Even vomiting may be present. If not treated at this 
stage the person may become completely blind. 


In early cases, if diagnosed by an eye specialist, regular instillation of 
pilocarpine drops is advised. In advanced stages, drugs which reduce 
tension is instilled. If there is no effect, an emergency operation called 
Alteration operation has to be done. When the eye is completely blind and 
very painful excision may be needed. 


Simple glaucoma occurs in elderly persons and is symptomless. 
Defect in the visual field and a mild headache may be noticed. Diminution 
of vision slowly develops. Nothing may be noticed till the eye is totally 
blind. It is better to have routine check-ups by an eye surgeon after the 
middle age so that this condition may be accidentally detected. 


When it is detected early , pilocarpine is to be used for long periods till 
the operation is done. 


IMPORTANT COMBINATIONS SUGGESTING BLINDNESS 


1. If Mesha, Karka or Simha be Lagna, and Sun and Moon be there 
being aspected by Saturn and Mars, they make one blind. But 
if benefics influence the same, they cause only short of vision. If 
only Sun be in that place, he affects the right eye and if only Moon 


130 
be 
Ds 
3. 


10. 


Astrology and Diagnosis : 


there, the left one is affected. 
Sun and Moon in the twelfth house afflicted make one blind. 


If Mars be the second lord, Sun and Moon be the eighth house and 
Saturn be in sixth or twelfth house, one becomes blind. 


Mars in2nd house, Saturn in 12th house, Moon in 6th house and Sun 
in 8th house make one Sun-Blind. 


If malefics are in the fourth and fifth houses, Moon in dusthana and 
no benefic planet aspects any of them Blindness in suggested. 


Strongly afflicted Sun in Libra Sign causes Blindness. 


Tf lords of 1st;2nd, 5th, 7th and 9th houses be in dusthana and Venus 
be either in Lagna or in 2nd house, they cause Blindness. 


Eclipsed Sun is Lagna, Saturn and Mars in the Sth and 9th houses 
give rise to Blindness. 


If 2nd and 5th lords be with Venus and lord of Lagna in dusthana, they 
cause Blindness. 


Sun in Lagna with Rahu and Malefics in Trikona make one stone- 
blind. 


1.Moon is in the 12th house, she is 


Ne Nea The native of this horoscope is 
sufering heavily from Eye trouble 
which has resulted almost into 

BLINDNESS. 


also aspected by Rahu. 


a via 2. Mars is in the 8th place from 
Moon. 


3. 2nd house of Moon is aspected by Saturn and Mars and 2nd lord 
Mercury is in 6th house with lord of 8th house aspected by Rahu. 


4. Second lord from Lagna is in the 12th house and second house is 
aspected by Mars. 


Face and Throat 131 


5. 12th Lord Venus is in 6th house aspected by Saturn. 


6. Venus, significator for eyesight is in the 6th house aspected by 8th 
lord Saturn; Venus is lord of evil house. 


7. Sun is afflicted by Saturn and Rahu. 

8. Fourth house is full of malefics and Moon is in evil house. 

9. Virgo sign is heavily afflicted. 

10. Both Taurus and Pisces signs, ruling eyes, are afflicted by malefics. 


11. Both Sun and Moon are afflicted by Rahu from Virgo sign, the 
house of disease and also Venus is afflicted by Saturn from Virgo 
sign. 


Thus we find that second and twelfth houses, Sun, Moon, Venus, 
Taurus and Pisces signs, lords of second and twelfth houses - all these are 
afflicted Lagna is also afflicted by sixth lord Mars. 


This is horoscope of complete 
BLINDNESS. The person lost both 


his eyes in his first year after birth in 
Dasa and bhukti of Saturn. First he 
lost his righteye and after few months 
he lost the left Eye. 

1. Venus, the significator for Eye 


sight, is hemmed between the 
malefics Rahu and Saturn. She is 
also aspected by Rahu and Mars. 


2. The Sun, significator for right eye, is hemmed in between malefics 
Mars and Rahu and is also aspected by Satum fromthe sixth house. 
Again he is conjoined with Mercury. 


3. The Moon, significator for left eye, is aspected by Saturn from the 
6th house and by Rahu from Pisces sign. Further Moon is malefic, 
debilitated, lord of the 8th house and is in 12th house. 


4. Second lord Satumis in the 6th house aspected by 8th lord and also 
12th lord Mars is in 2nd house. 


132 Astrology and Diagnosis 


5. 12th house is conjoined with 8th lord Moon and is aspected by 
Saturn and Rahu from the 6th house and Pisces sign respectively. 


6. Taurus and Pisces signs, 2nd and 12th house of natural zodiac, are 
afflicted. 


7.2ndand 12th houses fromthe Sun are afflicted by Rahu and Mars. 


8. 2nd and 12th houses from Moon are hemmed in between two 
malefics. 


Thus we find all the houses and significators for both the eyes are 
heavily afflicted in this horoscope. Saturnis connected with 2nd house, 
12th house, Sun, Moon and Venus, as a malefic and is afflicting them and 
loss of sight in Dasha and bhukti of Saturn is quite natural. 


EYE DISEASES 


e ey We find Sun and Mercury in the 8th 
house. The conjunction in the 5th is 
not bad. In the 8th month the native 
had inflammation of eyes leading to 


Blindness; and later one eye was 
recovered. Jupiter in the 2nd and 
Moon in the 10th are the relieving 
factors here. 


This chart shows short sight in one 

eye and long sight in the other. The 

lords of | and 8 are inthe 12ththough 
they do not have exact conjunction. 
The conjunction of Mars and Venus 

had added to the complication. 


Face and Throat 133 


NAS 
oe 
Jo 


: MOON 


xX 
see 


This chart gives peculiar pattern 
of planets. The Ascendant has been 
afflicted by debilitated Venus who 
also happens to be the lord ofthe2nd, 
and these are aspected by the lord of 
the 6th Saturn. Sunis inthe 12th.The 
lord of the Ascendant is aspected by 
Mars conjunct Moon. The native is 
BORN BLINDand it is not all sur- 
prising to find the result like this. 


In the first instance Leo the house of eye-giver the Sun is afflicted by 
Mars, Saturn, Jupiter conjunction and in the second chart four malefics 
pollute the 6th house. Cancer and the Moon is Aries in aspected by Saturn 
as well. 


Balance of Mars Dasa at birthe Yrs, 


4,96 days. 


This is a horoscope of a Male. He 
began to complain of eye trouble in 
Jupiter dasa duringS aturnantardasha 
and became almost blind in Venus 
antardasha of same Dasha. 


134 


6 Carbuncles, abscesses, ulcers etc 
7. Hydrocele; 

8. Diabetes; 

9. Disease connecting Urine; 


10. Pains; 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


This person is liable to suffer from 
the following diseases during his life 
time : 

1, Fever; 

2. Fracture of bone; 

3. Eye diseases; 


4, Disease in Face; 


5. Diseases concerning blood; 


’ 


11. Diseases of right leg and in limbs; 


12.Blood Pressure; 


13. Diseases concerning Heart. 


The person died in Ketu Dasha and antardasha of the Sun from Thrombosis 


of Heart. 


The person suffered from almost all 
lord of the sixth house. 


his major diseases in Mercury Dasha, 


Face and Throat 133 


DISEASES CONCERNING MOUTH AND FACE 


The second house governs the Mouth. Affliction to second house, Lord 
of second house, etc, give rise to diseases in Mouth. Taurus signis the seat 
of mouth in natural zodiac. There may be many kinds of diseases 
concerning Mouth. The affliction of second house, Lord of second house, 
Taurus sign together with affliction of respective signifying planets, give 
rise to respective diseases. Mercury is the ruler of all Ulcers. When 
Mercury and the above houses are afflicted and some way related with 
diseases inflicting planet or house, they produce ulcers in the Mouth. 
Mars is significator of all Tumours and cuts. Affliction of Mars together 
with the above houses and house-lords, may give rise to Tumours and cuts 
in the Mouth. Rahu is responsible for all Inflammations, and root cause 
of any inflammatory disease is to be considered from affliction of Rahu 
and the above houses and Lords. 


Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces signs, three watery signs role the inside 
portion of the mouth and their position in the horoscope and relation with 


second house and signifying planets are also to be considered for all 
diseases inside the Mouth. 


Second house also roles the Face. Taurus sign is also the seat of Face in 
natural zodiac. Venus roles the luster in the appearance. An afflicted 
Venus and afflicted second house, Taurus sign, second lord, etc, work for 
the fading away of luster in the appearance. A well-placed and good 
Venus endows one with good appearance, loveliness and charming face 
evenupto an old age. Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn signs, three Earthy signs, 
tule the appearance. Affliction of houses and planets ruling face together 


with affliction of respective signifying planets produce respective dis- 
eases in the Face. 


These are few combinations for the disease concerning Mouth and 
Face. 
1, When sixth lord Moon afflicts the second house. 


2. If lord of Lagna be in the house of Mars or Mercury and be aspected 
by Mercury. 


3. Mercury and Venus in the sixth house afflicted. 
4. Mars, Saturn and Mercury in Lagna. 
DISEASES CONCERNING TONGUE 


The second house rules the tongue and Jupiter governs all tongue diseases 
and defect in speech. Taurus sign is the seat of tongue in natural 


136 Astrology and Diagnosis 


zodiac. When Taurus sign, second house, lord of second house and 
Jupiter, all are afflicted and in some way related with disease inflicting 
house of planet, they produce disorders, defect and disease connecting 
tongue and speech. Malefic in second house without benefic influence 
always harms towards speech and power of talking. Generally, when Ketu 
is in second house in an adverse condition, one Stammers; afflicted Rahu 
in second house makes one speak too much; afflicted Sun or Mars in 
second house makes one speak harsh and with heavy sounds. When 
afflicted Saturn be there, one Stammers, speaks late in life etc. Watery 
signs are soundless and hence when Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces be second 
house being afflicted, one speak very little or even becomes dumb. 


There are few combinations for tongue malady :* 


1. If second lord be in dusthana with Rahu or with lord of the house 
where Rahu is situated, it causes tongue malady. 


2. Ifsecond lord and Jupiter, being afflicted, bein the eighth house from 
the second house, they make one dumb, provided none is in its own 
house or in house of exaltation. 


3. The second lord with Jupiter in dusthana gives rise to tongue malady. 


4. Ifmoon be in junction of two rashis or Navamsa and Jupiter be in 
dusthana and benefics be afflicted by conjunction of malefics, they 
result in dumbness. 


GINGIVITIS 


The common cause of bleeding gums is Gingivitis. In this condition 
bleeding occurs by irritation i.e., while brushing or picking the tooth. Rare 
cases are bleeding disorders like purpura and allergy. 


Vitamin C deficiency is a fairly common cause. For chronic marginal 
Gingivitis scaling may be required to remove deposits. Elimination of 
causes of gingival irritation and oral physiotherapy can be done under an 
expert attention. 


HELATOSIS OFFENSIVE ODOUR 


An offensive odour of the breath is termed Helatosis. Bad teeth, 
decaying food in dental cava ties, sometimes not seen by the naked eye, 
pyorrhoea, or cheesy putrefactive material in the crypts of the tonsils, 
infected nasal sinuses are some of the causes commonly encountered. 


Lung condition such as lung abscess, or bronchiectasis are sometimes 
a source of helatosis which causes much embarrassment to the sufferer. 


Face and Throat 137 


Constipation may be a cause but should not be incriminated in every case. 
Some cases of unexplained helatosis are improved by reducing the fats 
in the diet. 


Attention must be paid to the mouth, teeth, throat and nose. The 
respiratory and gastrointestinal systems should also be checked upon. 


BERI BERI 


This is a disease due to deficiency of the antineuratic vitamin. 6th 
house Virgo sign and Venus rule this disease. Affliction of 6th house, lord 
of sixth house, Virgo sign and Venus, their situation in evil houses 
conjunction with malefics and evil lords, aspect of malefics and evil lords 
over them and their relation with disease-inflicting house or planet, work 
for giving rise to this disease. When malefic afflicts the 6th house, lord 
of 6th house or Virgo sign and also she herself be afflicted, she gives rise 
to Beri-Beri. When malefics pass over the 6th house, lord of 6th house, 
Virgo sign and Venus in transit, Beri-Beri may appear. Lagna, lord of 
Lagna, and Lagna karaka Sun are also important factors in this disease and 
when these are afflicted by malefics or by malefic Venus, they also work 
for diseases Beri-Beri along with the houses and planets ruling the same. 


Rahu rules epidemic and when Rahu be in any way connected with the 
combination of disease, it brings the sufferings from epidemic. 
TETANUS 

This is an infectious disease characterised by tonic spams of the 
muscles with marked exacerbations. Saturn and Moonare karakas forthis 
disease. Moon in a house of Mars hemmed in between malefics causes 
Tetanus. Moon in house of Mars afflicted by malefics or heavily afflicted 
Saturn gives rise to this disease. When Moon and Saturn are heavily 
afflicted by malefics, badly placed, conjoined with evil lords and malefics 
and are related with disease-inflicting house or planet, they give rise to 
Tetanus. 


This is a case of Beri-Beri. Venus, 

rors NT 4 karaka, is with lord of Lagna aspected 
by Mars, lord of 8th house and also 
by Rahu from the 8th house. Rahu is 
highly malefic being conjoined with 
6th lord Saturn in 8th house. 


Sun, Lagna karaka, is afflicted by 


aspect of Saturn. Lord of Lagna is 
Sis also afflicted. Venus is in 12th house 


138 Astrology and Diagnosis 

from Sun with lord of 6th house from Sun. She is further 6th lord from 
Moon and is in 8th house from Moon. Sixth houses from Sun and Moon 
are afflicted. 6th lord from Lagna, Sun and Moon is also afflicted. 


Venus is 2nd lord from Lagna and is with 2nd lord from Moon. She 
is afflicted by Mars and Rahu. 2nd houses from Lagna and Moon are also 
afflicted. Lords of 2nd houses form Lagna, Sun and Moon are afflicted. 
2nd house roles food. Root cause of thedisease is taking bad food. Rahu's 
affliction suggests suffering from epidemic. 


This is a case of TETANUS. Moon 
is in Aries sign, a house of Mars, 
hemmed between malefics. Further 


she is aspected by sixth lord Jupiter 
and also by Rahu from 6th house. 
Saturn and Moon both are karakas 


and are heavily afflicted. 


Lord of Lagna is in the 8th house 
afflicted and is with Saturn. 


Sun Lagna karaka is afflicted by 
Saturn and Rahu. 


Thus we find the factors ruling the disease are afflicted in this chart 
and are capable of producing the disease. 


The person suffered from Inflammation and a Tumour in the 
mouth and underwent an operation. His face has been disfigured in result 
of the operation. 


1. 2nd Lord Moon is debilitated and 
is in 6th house, afflicted by Rahu. 
2. 2nd house is conjoined with Rahu 
and is aspected by malefic and 


sixth lord Mars. 
8 
MOON 


3.Taurus sign is afflicted by malefic 
Saturn. 


4. Mars, the karaka for tumours and 


Face and Throat 139 


cuts is himself sixth lord and is aspecting the 2nd house. He is highly 
malignant being aspected by 8th lord and malefic Saturn. 


5. Rahu, a karaka for inflammation, is in 2nd house aspected by Mars. 
6. Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces signs are afflicted. 


7. 2nd house from Moon is occupied by sixth lord Mars and is aspected 
by malefic Saturn. Jupiter the 2nd lord from the Moon, is in her 8th house 
aspected by her sixth lord Mars. 


8. 2nd house from the Sun is aspected by malefic Saturn and the lord of 
the house Venus is with his sixth lord Mercury, conjoined with Saturn and 
aspected by Rahu and Mars. 


9. Venus, karaka for face and appearance, is heavily afflicted. 


10. Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn signs, ruling face and appearance, are 
afflicted. 


Thus we find that all the factors ruling face, mouth and appearance are 
afflicted in this horoscope. Jupiter is in Lagna and is powerfully aspecting 
the sixth lord and Karaka Mars, which suggests recovery fromthe disease. 


DISEASES CONCERNING MOUTH AND FACE 


The second house governs the Mouth. Afflictionto the second house lord 
of second house ete give rise to diseases in Mouth. Taurus sign is the seat 
of mouth in natural zodiac. There may be many kinds of diseases 
concerning mouth. The affliction of second house, lord of second house, 
Taurus sign together with affliction of respective signifying planets, give 
rise to respective diseases. Mercury is the ruler of "all Ulcers. When 
Mercury and the above houses are afflicted and some way related with 
diseases inflacting planet or house, they produce ULCER in the mouth. 
Mars is significator for all TUMOURS and CUTS. Affliction of Mars 
together with the above houses and house-lords may give rise to tumours 
and cuts in the mouth, Rahu is responsible for all INFLAMMATIONS, 
and root cause of any inflammatory disease is to be considered from 
affliction of Rahu and the above houses and Lords. Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces signs, three watery signs, rule the inside portion of the Mouth and 
their position in the horoscope and relation with second house and 
signifying planets are also to be considered for all diseases inside the 
mouth. 


Second house also roles the face. Taurus sign is also the seat of face in 
natural zodiac. Venus rules the luster in the appearance. An afflicted 


140 Astrology and Diagnosis 

Venus and afflicted second house, Scorpio sign, second lord ete work for 
the fading away of luster in the appearance. A well-placed and good 
Venus endows one with good appearance-loveliness and charming face 
even upto an old age. Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn signs, three Earthy 
signs rale the appearance. Affliction of houses and planets ruling face 
together with afflictionor respective signifying planet produce respective 
diseases in the face. 


DEAFNESS 


The use of alcohol, tobacco and certain drugs like quinine, may effect 
the hearing faculty. Injury, spread of infections from the nose, throat and 
teeth and certain diseases of the heart, lungs, kidneys, brain and the 
nervous system are other causes of Deafness. ~ 


Sometimes sneezing, swimming, nose-blowing and diving may ini- 
tiate a process which ultimately results in deafness. 


The habit of cleaning the inside oftheear with sticks or soap a nd water 
should be avoided. 


To prevent deafness, it is necessary to minimise, as far as possible, all 
the conditions that might be responsible. Most cases of deafness are 
because of negligence of mild ear infections in the childhood. 


Children having any ear infection must be shown to doctors. Mainte- 
nance of general health with plenty of vitamins is important. When 
deafness is due to drugs, recovery follows the removal of the cause. 


In chronic Otitis Media, deafness, ringing in the ear and vertigo are 
common. Pain is often not present. 


Non-operative treatment consists of catheterisation and the use of 
hearing aids. Operative treatment may give only temporary relief. 
Sometimes fenestration operation is done. 


When there is an advanced degree of deafness, hearing aids alone may 
help. It is better to use the hearing aid, is advised by a specialist. Otherwise 
there may be further deterioration. 


DEAFNESS AND EAR DISEASES 


The Second and Third houses rule the Ears. The second house rules 
the outer part of theear and the third house rules the inner portion. Jupiter 
is significator forall troubles and diseases connecting ears. Again, second 
and third houses rule the right ear, while twelfth and eleventh houses rule 


Face and Throat 141 


the left one. In the natural zodiac, Taurus and Gemini signs rule over the 
right ear, while Pisces and Aquarius signs role over the leftear. Saturnhas 
also a role in causing Deafness. When the above houses, their lords and 
signifying planets ruling ears be afflicted and be in any way related with 
the disease inthe ears. Afflicted and malefic Mars in the houses ruling ears 
or affliction of the houses ruling ears by aspect of malefic Mars give rise 
to Tumours inthe ears. As ears are the organs of hearing, the Airy houses, 
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius signs have also something to do in the matter of 
hearing and ear disease. 


Jupiteris significator forboth tongue and ears and affliction of Jupiter 
with second house and other houses and planets ruling tongue and ears 
give to both dumbness and deafness. When strong malefics pass through 
these houses in transit or afflict them by aspects, they give rise to pains 
and diseases connecting tongue and ears. 


SOME COMBINATIONS FOR DISEASES CONNECTING 
EARS ARE :- 


1. Mars or Rahu with malefics in third house. 

2. Venus and Mars, afflicted in second and twelfth house. 

3. A malefic in third house aspected by another malefic. 

4. Third lord in any house heavily afflicted. 

5. Malefics in 3rd,5th,9th and 11th houses without benefic aspects. 


6. Moon in the 7th house with malefic devoid of benefic aspect and 
second or third house afflicted. 


7. Having bom at night with Mercury in the 6th house and Venus in 
the 10th house, the auditory sense of the right ear is lost to the native, 
who also hears through difficulty. 


8. Seventh lord in Lagna together with Mars and second or third house 
afflicted. 


9. Second Lord in Lagna with Mars or Saturn. 
MASTOIDITIS 


Chronic Mastoiditis indicates infection of the middle ear, mastoid 
process and other parts of thetemporal bone of the skull. This may be due 
to the spread of sinusitis, tonsillitis or otitis. Formation of polypi in the 


142 Astrology and Diagnosis 


ear, osteomyelitis and some acute infectious fevers also can lead to 
chronic mastoiditis. 


Perforation of the ear membrane and discharge from the ear accom- 
panied by the impairment of hearing are the symptoms. In more severe 
cases a lot of thick discharge and bone destruction will be present. 
Headache, fever, and ringing in the ear are likely in some cases. 


The infection may spread to meninges inside the skull leading to 
Meningitis. 


For pus discharge irrigation first with sodium bicarbonate solution 
and later with diluted boric solution is given. Polypi may be removed from 
the root or casterised. Sometimes the removal of ossicles will help. 
Radical mastoidectomy is necessary for complete cure. 


DUMBNESS 


The planet Mercury is responsible for expression as well as commu- 
nication both mentally (thought) and by speech. Naturally any afflictions 
to the planet at birth either by conjunction, square oropposion with Saturn 
or eclipse point creates deformity in speech either partly or wholly. If 
Mercury being the ruler of the 6th house, is afflicted by Mars or Saturn 
and posited in either of the watery signs, Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces the 
native will have a perceptible stammer, lisp or other impedicament. 
Mercury anywhere inthe figure in Watery signs afflicted by Saturn causes 
a stammer. If Mars adds his influence by aspect, then native will talk very 
fast, lisp or pronounce his words badly. 


Saturn ascending in any of thebestial signs - Aries, Taurus, Leo or 
Capricorn-or in any of the "mute" signs - Cancer. Scorpio or Pisces - 
causes impediment of speech. When Mercury holds any of the first 
degrees of Scorpio, and is in opposition to the Moon, the native will have 
a defect in his speech. 


MUTE SIGNS Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are considered as Mute or 
dumb signs. Dumbness is caused by affliction to these signs or at birth, 
or these signs greatly afflicted at the moment of conception or during 
gestation. Mercury in the 6th house in conjunction with the Sun or 
afflicted by Saturn or Mars causes a defect in the speech. The second 
house (and the corresponding sign Taurus) governs the vocal organs, and 
if a sign of “voice” either Gemini, Libra or Aquarius 'the Airy signs) be 
found in the 2nd house of thehoroscope of birth, more especially if Venus 
or Mercury be there in and free from affliction, then eloquence, or some 
vocal gifts may be predicted. 


Face and Throat 143 


Signs Taurus and Gemini are also required to be considered as they rule 
vocal organs, ears and speech. 


The houses mainly concerned are the 6th and the 12th. Next to these 
2nd, 3rd and 8th houses. 


The western Astrologers hold that the region of Gemini which has 
been shown as of importance in matters of speech in about Gemini 18 
degrees and according to one Taurus-Scorpio 25 degrees and Gemini- 
Sagittarius 14 deg. are often involved in the horoscopes of the DUMBS. 


One of our leamed astrologer holds that since Gemini-Sagittarius 14 
to 18 degrees is a sensitive region, it is just possible that the area of Cancer 
and Capricorn 12 to 16 degrees, being parallel declination, may also be 
considered equally important. Eclipses proceeding birth, especially those 
occurring during gestation are important. If Mercury happens to be in 
conjunction or some strong aspect with a pre-natal eclipse point, it creates 
an adverse effect on one's mental capacity or speech. 


Following Azimuth Degrees are of vital importance while judging the 
horoscopes of DUMBS as they create deficiency or weakness. 


Aries, Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Pisces..Zero Degree; Tauros-6,7,8 9,10 
Dg.; Cancer-9 to 16 degrees; Leo-18,27,28 degrees, Scorpio-19,28 
degrees; Sagittarius - 1,7,8,18,19 degrees; Capricorn-26 to 29 degrees; 
Aquarius 18 to 19 degrees. 


If the Ascendant or its lord be in one of these degrees at birth, the native 
tends to be lame, crooked, deformed or blind even. One may infer from 
this that Mercury in one of these degrees might result Dumbness. 


Tf Moon be in junction of two signs or Navamsa and Jupiter be in 
dusthana and benefics be afflicted by conjunction of malefic, they result 
in Dumbness. 


If Mercury is afflicted by malefics and occupies the 12th house, 
Dumbness will result. 


This is a case of DEAF and DUMB. 


i. 2nd and 3rd houses are afflictedby malefic conjunction and aspect. 
12th and 11th houses are also afflicted. 


2. 2nd and 3rd houses are afflicted by malefic conjunction and aspect. 
Lords of 12th and 11th are also afflicted. 


144 Astrology and Diagnosis 


3. Jupiter is afflicted by Mars, Saturn 
and Rahu by aspects. 


4, 2nd, 3rd, 11thhouses from Moon 
are afflicted. And also lords of 
2nd, 3rd, 11th and the 12th houses 
are afflicted. 


5. 2nd, 11th and 12th houses from 
Sun are afflicted. Lords of 2nd, 
3rd, 11th and 12th houses are 
also afflicted. 


6. All the Airy houses are afflicted. 


7.Gemini, Aquarius signs together with Taurus and Pisces are af 
flicted. 


8.Saturn, karaka for hearing, is afflicted and is in a sensitive sign. 


Thus we find that factors ruling the ears are afflicted in this horoscope 
and are capable of giving rise to Deafness. Two houses and planets ruling 
the Tongue are also afflicted in this horoscope, suggesting DUMBNESS. 


This is case of Tongue malady. The 
person is completely DUMB. 


1, 2ndlord Venus is in Dusthana. She 
is further lord of the house where 
Rahu is situated. 


2. 2nd lord and Jupiter both are in 
Dusthanas. 


3, 2nd house is afflicted by 8th lord 
Mars and also by Rahu. Further it 
is aspected by sixth lord Saturn. 


4, 2nd lord is in Dusthana with sixth lord Saturn. 


5. 2nd house from Sun and Moon, being Leo sign is afflicted by lords 


Face and Throat 148 
of 6th and 8th houses there from and also by malefics. 
6. Taurus sign is aspected by Mars and Saturn. 


7. Cancer, Scorpio two water signs, which are known as MUTE Signs, 
are afflicted. 


8. Jupiter, karaka for Speech, is a malefic for Virgo Ascendant and is 
afflicted by malefic and is in dusthana. 


NASAL DISEASES AND ASTROLOGICAL 
FACTORS 


RHINITIS 


Allergic Rhinitis is a common manifestation of allergy to foreign 
proteins which may enter the body by injection or inhalation. The known 
ones are vegetable particles like pollen grass fungi, flowers, dandruff, etc. 
Egg, fish, and strawberries may also cause allergy. Members ofthe same 
family may be affected at the same time. The substance may enter body 
by various routes such inhalation, indigestion and from a focus of 
infection such as the disease of the paranasal sinuses. 


Bouts of sneezing accompanied by a thin nasal discharge and 
irritation may be seen. Nose blocking may also be present. Insome people 
this trouble is common in summer and the rainy season. 


The factors that require attention are increased irritability of nervous 
system some infra-nasal abnormality which increases the sensitiveness 
and the specific irritation. 


Living near the sea adversely affects certain patients while others feel 
better. Any nasal polypi must be removed. Cauterisation of the septal 
mucosa gives relief in some cases. Ionisation of the nasal mucosa with 
sulphate of zinc is also tried. 


SINUS -SUPPURATION 


Infection reaches the paranasal sinuses from the nasal cavity, the 
cause may be simple coryza or common cold or one of theacute infectious 
fevers, influenza often responsible for sinus infection. Badly maintained 
swimming baths are often responsible for sinus infection. Infection from 
teeth may cause the condition. The infection easily spreads from one sinus 
to another. The symptoms are pain, tenderness and discharge Pain in 
severe in acute cases. In chronic cases there may be a heavy feeling over 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


the face. Frontal pain relieved by a sudden gush of discharge fromthe nose 
is very characteristic. A stream of pus which reappears after removal, in 
the absence of a foreign body or malignant diseases in evidence of 
suppuration in a sinus. 


An-X-ray of sinus usually demonstrate the disease. In acute cases 
complete rest in the bed is essential. Inhalation may be tried. 


POLYPUS AND OTHER NASAL DISEASES 


The second house roles over the Nose. Mercury is significator forthe 
same, When 2nd house and Mercury are afflicted, nasal trouble is 
suggested. Taurus signis the seatof the Nose inthe natural zodiac. Second 
house also roles the right nostril and 12th house roles the left one. To 
ascertain trouble in particular side the cause must be looked into 2nd or 
12th house. Rahu is significator for breathing. Gemini,Libra and Aquarius 
sign, three airy sign, also role the functions of breathing. Affliction to the 
houses and significators controlling Nose and breathing gives rise to nasal 
diseases and difficulty in breathing. Polypus is a disease which is a kind 
of tumour in nose. Mars is significator for all Tumours. A malefic Mars 
in the second or twelfth house and affliction of the houses and planets 
ruling nose, of affliction of theabove houses and planets by malefic Mars 
produce diseases like Polypus. 


The following are few combinations for Nasal diseases:- 


1. Moon, Saturnand a maleficin 6th, 8th and 12th houses respectively 
and lord of Lagna in a malefic Navamsa. 


2.Moon in the 6th house, lord of Lagna in house of malefic and second 
house and second lord afflicted. 


3. If Mercury be aspected by or conjoined with malefic and be without 
benefic aspect. 


4, When 6th lord Jupiter afflicts 2nd house. 


5. Sun, Mars and Saturn in one house related with second lord or 
Mercury. 


This is the horoscope of a person suffered from POLYPUS, and to 
undergo an operation. 


1. Second house from Lagna and Moon is aspected by malefics Mars 
and Saturnand also by sixth lord Jupiter. 


2. Lord of second house, Sun is in the 8th house with 6th lord and is 


Face and Throat 147 


aspected by Rahu. Further, it is a malefic for this Lagna. 


3. Mercury, a karaka, is in dusthana 
with sixth lord and is aspected by 
Rahu. Further, it is a malefic for 
this Lagna. 


4, Rahu, a karaka for breathing, is in. 
dusthana. 


5. Taurus sign, second house of natu- 
ral zodiac, is afflicted by malefics. 


6. Mars being malignant by aspect of 
Saturn in Taurus sign and is also 
aspecting the 2nd house. 


7. Gemini, Libra and Aquarius signs - three Airy signs - are afflicted 
by Rahu and sixth lord Jupiter. 


Thus we find many factors are present in this horoscope to give rise 
to disease like POLYPUS. The native suffered from Polypus in his right 
nostril and underwent an operation. Here Jupiter as lord of thesixth house 
suggests disease, while also being the lord of ninth and a natural benefic 
helps the recovery. 


DENTAL TROUBLES 
PYORRHOEA 


Pyorrhoea a chronic destructive periodontitis. In its initial stages it is 
recognised by a bleeding of the guns while brushing the teeth. Later pus 
exudes from the junction of the tooth and gum. It is a common cause of 
haletosis or bad odour fromthe mouth. Pyorrhoea is a curable disease. 
Neglect of the healthy mouth which permits the diseases to occur is the 
prime cause of thetooth and gum troubles. Proper brushing techniques 
should be adopted. This enables the gap between the teeth to be cleaned. 
When little bleeding is noticed while brushing teeth, they should be 
brushed further and massaged. Most people stop brushing while bleeding 
occurs. This is wrong. Brushing and massaging should be done 
unhesitatingly. When extrusion of pus occurs, it is advisable to visit a 
qualified Dental Surgeon or a dental hospital immediately, instead of 
putting it off till the condition worsens. 


Pyorrhoea is responsible for the maximum tooth loss and is very 
common but most neglected disease in our country. 


148 Astrology and Diagnosis 


FLUROSIS 


In flurosis, mottling and irregular patches of white or yellow pigmen- 
tation of teeth are seen. It may be endemic in areas where people 
continually use water containing excess of flouride for a long time. 


In the later stages of flurosis, the teeth become brownish or yellowish. 
Pitted and correded areas are visible. 


Other symptoms of flurosis are pain and rigidity of back, dyspepsia 
and anaemia. Caries do not affect flurosised teeth. A diet rich in calcium 
and vitamin D will help prevent the disease. The better way is to change 
the water. 


1.Pyorrhoea - Aries, Taurus or Sagittarius Ascendants aspected by 
strong malefics. 


2, Saturn in Cancer sign. 
3. Malefic in Lagna which should be Aries, Taurus or Sagittarius. 


4. The Moon or Rahu inthe 12th, Saturn in trikona and Ketu in the 7th 
or the 8th. 


5. A malefic in the seventh house of malefic Mars in the 2nd house. 

6. The Sun, the Moon and Venus in Lagna. 

LOSS OFTEETH- refers to Mars inthe Lagna which must be watery 
sign. 

TOOTH-ACHE-involves the conjunction of the Sun and Saturn in 


a watery sign which must be Lagna or the sixth house. 


DECAYING TEETH-rteferto Saturnin the 1storthe 7th which must 
be his own house. 


TROUBLES IN THE MOUTH ORFACE 
I. Sixth Lord, the Moon afflicting the 2nd house. 


2. Lord of Lagna in the house of Mars or Mercury and aspected by 
Mercury. 


3. Mercury and Venus in the sixth house afflicted. 
4. Conjunction of Mars, Saturn and Mercury in Lagna. 
DENTAL DISEASES 
The second house is the seat of teeth, seventh house rules .ue dental 


Face and Throat 149 


diseases, and Saturnis the significator for Teeth. Taurus and Libra signs 
of the natural zodiac control diseases of Teeth. Affliction to second and 
seventh houses, their lords and karaka Saturn and their relation with sixth 
house, lord of sixth house dusthanas and lords of dusthanas give rise to 
dental diseases, tooth-trouble, irregular teeth etc. When Saturn itself 
afflicts the second house or seventh house, it causes trouble connecting 
teeth. Saturn's situation in the second house is responsible for setting of 
bad, ugly and irregular teeth. Rahu in the second house makes large and 
prominent teeth. When malefics transit through second and seventh 
houses, particularly Saturn or Rahu, dental troubles get in. Malefics and 
second and seventh houses from Sun and Moon also give rise to similar 
diseases. Aries, Leo and Sagittarius signs, three fiery signs, also rule the 
dental diseases and affliction to these houses are not desirable. 


There are combinations for Irregular, Large and Defective Teeth. 


1. Afflicted Moon in Dhanu rashi causes large teeth. 


2. Saturn in second house causes defective teeth. 


3. If Rahu be either in Lagna or second house, one possesses large 
teeth. 


4. If Ketu be in Lagna, one possesses wider teeth. 


5. When Rahu or Saturnis in second house or in opposition to lord of 
Lagna, and Jupiter is in debilitation defective teeth is in the result. 


6. If lord of 8th house be in 8th house with Jupiter and lord of Lagna 
is debilitated, they result into defective teeth. 


COMBINATIONS FOR DENTAL DISEASES 


1. If Saturn be in Cancer, one loses teeth early, provided the said Saturn 
is a malefic. 


2. If Aries, Taurus, Sagittarius sign be Lagna and malefic be there or 
aspects them, it causes tooth trouble. 


3. Moon or Ketu in the 12th house, Saturn in trikona and Ketu inthe 
7th or 8th house cause tooth trouble. 


4. Malefic in the 7th house without benefic aspect causes tooth 
trouble. 


5. If Lagna be in navamsa of Saturn, it causes dental diseases. 


6. Mars being malefic in second house causes dental trouble. 


150 Astrology and Diagnosis 


7. Sun, Moon and Venus in Lagna produce dental trouble. 


8. If 2nd lord be with Rahu in Dustha na or be with lord the house where 
Rahu is situated, it causes dental trouble. 


9. Aries, Leo, Sagittarius sign, when afflicted by Rahu give rise to 
dental trouble. 


While considering these combinations, the position of the 2nd and 7th 
houses are to be taken into consideration: Whether they are afflicted by 
or conjoined with malefics or not. And also it should be taken into 
consideration whether the planets making the above combinations are 
benefics forthe particular Lagna in question. The benefics may not give 
rise to the disease at all. 


This is horoscope in which the person 
has defective and bad setting of 
Teeth. 


1. Malefic Saturnis in the 2nd house 
aspected by Rahu from the 6th 
house. 


2. Saturn, karaka forteeth, is aspected 
by Rahu from sixth house. 


3. Aries, Leo, Sagittarius signs rul- 
ing teeth are afflicted. 


4.Second house of Moon is hemmed between Ketu and Saturn. 


5. Seventh house from Lagna, Moon and Sun are afflicted by aspect 
and conjunction of Rahu. 


6. Lords of 2nd houses from Lagna, Moon and the Sun are afflicted. 


In this horoscope seventh of Lagna is powerfully protected by benefic 
Jupiter, which is capable of fighting against dental diseases upto a 
considerable long ago though afflictions of houses ruling teeth by Rahu 
suggests diseases of teeth. 


Face and Throat 151 


THROAT DISEASES AND ASTROLOGICAL 
FACTORS 


SORE THROAT 


Sore throat may be due to pharyngitis, laryngitis, tonsillitis, sinusitis, 
otitis, allergy orsecondary to any septic focus in the body such as infected 
tooth or skin infection. 


A nutritious diet with adequate vitamins and minerals is essential in 
prevention of recurrent sore-throat. 


Avoid smoking, known allergens, oily, spicy and chilled foods. Any 
septic focus present should be eradicated. 


To ideally institute proper antibiotic therapy culture of throat organ- 
ism and their sensivity to antibiotics should be tested. Auto-vaccine 
prepared and used has given excellent results. 


High doses of Vitamin C and long-term antibiotic therapy with small 
doses of penicillin or sulpha orally forsix to eight weeks, have been found 
to be effective in many cases. 


Frequent mouth wash with warm saline and better oral hygiene go a 
long way. 


PHARYNGITIS 


Simple chronic pharyngitis is due to allergy, irritants or smoking. 
Dryness, irritation of the throat and difficulty in swallowing are the main 
symptoms. Smoking should be stopped for two weeks, Gargling with 
salted water, and if necessary, antibiotics are enough. 


Chronic pharyngitis may be due to tuberculosis in some cases. This 
will require a medical check up to find out if there is pulmonary 
tuberculosis Anti-tubercular drugs are helpful in such cases. 


In addition to calculus deposits of accumulations of other materials 
occur on the tooth surface. Coloured dispositions are called stains. 


152 Astrology and Diagnosis 


They may be green, brown or black. They are usually bacterial. Food 
debris and fungus cause loose particles which can be avoided by regular 
cleaning of teeth. 


Brown stain is said to be due to some content from saliva, which can 
also be prevented by regular habits. The products of tobacco produces 
brown or black stain. 


Adherent black stain is present on all surface of teeth. It is a firmly 
attached stain which can be removed by a dentist; but it may recur. This 
is more common in women and may occur even if oral hygiene is good. 
It is said to be due to bacteria. 


Green or yellow stains are commonly seen on the teeth of children. 
Certain metals, like copper, produces green stain on the exposed parts of 
teeth. This is common among industrial workers. 


Combinations to produce diseases in throat are :- 
1. When third lord conjoins with Mercury, it causes throat trouble. 


2. If any weak, debilitated or eclipsed planet be in the third house 
aspected by malefics, it causes trouble in throat from poison. 


3. Malefic planet conjoined with another malefic in the third house 
causes throat trouble. 


4. If lords of second and third houses be with Rahu in a house, they 
cause throat trouble. 


5. If third lord Mercury be in lagna, they cause throat trouble. 


6. If Moon be in the fourth house in Navamsa of fourth lord and be 
conjoined with malefic and third house be afflicted they cause 
throat trouble. 


7. If fourth house be in navamsa of Cancer, Scorpio, or Aquarius and 
Moon be there with malefic and the third house be afflicted, they 
cause throat trouble. 


8. Lagna hemmed between malefics and afflicted planet in second 
and twelfth houses and third house or lord of third house afflicted 
give rise to Diphtheria. 


Face and Throat 153 


9.Marsand Saturn in the sixth or twelfth house without benefic aspect 
together with lord of third house give rise to Tumors in Throat. 


ENLARGED TONSBLS 


Enlarged tonsils is a common complaint in children. When enlarged 
the tonsils are not necessarily infected. A certain amount of hypertrophy 
is normal in early childhood. The tonsils together with other lymphoid 
tissue undergo a process of involution as the child approaches adult life. 


Excessive hypertrophy is often bilateral. At times, the tonsils are so 
enlarged that they almost meet the middle line. Considerable adenoid 
hypertrophy causes the patient to snore loudly at night and to breathe 
through the open mouth. Hearing may be impaired due to hypertrophied 
lymphadenoid tissue obstructing the orifice of the Eustachian tubes. 
Infection of the upper respiratory tract occur frequently. 


Acute follicular Tonsillitis is characterised by fever and sore throat. 
Tonsils are swollen. Yellow spots of pus in the crypts on the surface are 
seen. The lymph nodes of the neck are enlarged and painful. The 
condition should be differentiated from diphtheria. The most common 
casual organism is streptococcus. Antibiotics, aspirin and soothing 
gargles are advised. 


Chronic tonsillitis is sometimes associated with hypertrophy, espe- 
cially in early childhood. Due to recurrent attacks of inflammation 
fibrosis sets in and the tonsils become indurated and adherent and shrink 
in size. 


Indiscriminate removal of tonsils adenoids is to be deprecated. But 
in children when tonsils are a source of recurrent infection and respiratory 
obstruction their removal improves the general condition. Tonsillectomy 
is indicated also when the tonsils are a focus of infection as in rheumatoid 
arthritis and thyroid disease. When the tonsils are suspected to be a 
primary focus of infection in tuberculous cervical adenitis they must be 
removed. 


Unilateral enlargement of the tonsils occuring in adult life should 
always be regarded with suspicion. Syphilis should be excluded by blood 
examination and a biopsy should be performed to confirm the diagnosis 
of malignancy if any. 


is4 Astrology and Diagnosis 
TONSILLITIS, PHARYNGITIS, DIPHTHERIA AND OTHER 
THROAT DISEASES 


The third house governs the Throat. Gemini sign is the seat of throat 
in the natural zodiac. Venus is karaka for Throat diseases. Affliction of 
the third house, lord of third house, Gemini sign and Venus, all these 
produce diseases concerning the Throat provided any of them has some 
relation with the disease inflicting house or planet. 


There are many kinds of diseases concerning throat, of which 
TONSILLITIS, DIPHTHERIA and PHARYNGITIS are common. 
Acute suppuration of theperi tonsilar tissues cause Tonsillitis. To find this 
disease, one must look also to the position of theplanet Mars in addition 
to the houses and planets ruling throat. Afflicted Mars in the third house 
or with lord of third house, or aspect of malefic Mars over third house or 
over lord of third house, together with afflicted third house, lord of third 
house, Gemini sign, signifyingplanets etc give rise to this disease. To find 
out the causes of ulcer in the throat one must look into the position of 
Mercury in addition to the houses and planets ruling throat. 


DIPHTHERIA is an acute infections disease with inflammation of 
mucous membrane, especially of throat. The causes of this disease are to 
be looked out from third house, lord of third house, Mithuna rashi, Venus, 
Mars and Rahu. Affliction of third house, Gemini sign or lord of third 
house by Mars and Rahu, by conjunction, aspect ete, are important factors 
to produce this disease. Affliction of significator Venus by Mars and Rahu 
may also give rise to similar diseases. 


When Mercury joins the above combinations, the infection comes 
from school, business place, place of amusement etc; When Mars join 
them it is infected from brothers, sisters, hospitals, battle fields etc. When 
Saturnjoins them it is from people inthe street, factory workers, low class 
people etc and so on according to the nature and qualities of the 
karakatwas of planets. 


PHARYNX is the cavity with enclosing muscles and mucous mem- 
brane behind and communicating with nose, month and larynx. The 
affectionof some gives rise to the disease of pharyngitis. The third house, 
lord of thethird house, Gemini sign and Venus role this disease. When 
above houses, house-lords and planets become afflicted and be in anyway 
related with disease inflicting planet or house, they produce the said 
disease. When afflicted, malefic or sixth lord Venus afflicts third house, 


Face and Throat 155 


Gemini sign or lord of third house by conjunction or aspect etc or when 
afflicted Venus be industhana or in Virgo sign with the lord of third house 
and Gemini sign or third house be weak, they produce the same disease. 
Whenfourth house or Iord of fourth house or Cancer sign or Moon be weak 
or afflicted or be conjoined with or be aspected by malefic, or evil lord 
and in anyway be related with the above combinations causing the disease 
of pharyngitis, they give rise to worst type of pharyngitis. 


The affliction of third house, Venus, Gemini sign, lord of the third 
house by strong and afflicted Mars and Rahu give rise to Tumors in throat 
and Neck. When all malefics strongly aspect or connect third house, third 
lord, Gemini sign and Venus and be in any way related with disease- 
inflicting house orplanet, they produce Cancer of Throat. To produce any 
disease in neck, affliction of the seventh house is also necessary. 


STOMATITIS 


Stomatitis is the inflammation of the mouth. It may be due to Vitamin 
B complex deficiency, minilial infection, herpes infection, acurvy or 
local conditions of the gums and teeth, commonly it is due to vitamin 
deficiency and bad teeth. 


Most of the cases are cured with local application or boroglycerine 
and B-complex injections. 


STAMMERING 


Stammering or stuttering is a defect or articulation leading to a sudden 
check in the utterance or words or to rapid repetition of the consonantal 
sounds in connection with which the difficulty arises. Usually this is not 
associated with structural damage of the nervous system. But if some 
infection has affected the speech centre stammering may result. 


Stammering is not hereditary. Sometimes habit spasm or ties are 
associated with this condition. In some cases, at least, shyness or self 
consciousness appears to play a part. Thus, it usually starts in childhood. 
The difficulty most commonly occurs with the explosive consonants 
P.B.T.D.G.K. A stammer usually has grunting; whooping as he tries to 
hide the defect. 


General health must be improved with good exercises and tonics. 
Speech training at the hands of a trained speech therapist does lot of good. 
It is good for you to speak, read and recite in aroom alone loudly, slowly 


156 
Astrology and Diagnosis 


and distinctly. When you come to the word where usually stammering 
starts, raise the voice and direct to cocalisation. Try to voice firmly. 
Singing and speaking exercises may be carried out in front of a mirror 
so that you can see for yourself and try to suppress habit spasm. 
Confidence and self-reliance are two most important factors in the 
therapy for stammering. In some, speech reduction may be necessary. 


In addition to the treatment for stammering: prescribed in gymnastic 
and singing exercises is also recommended. 


Should associated movements be present, the speaking exercises 
may be carried in front of a mirror. The development of confidence and 
self-reliance in the treatment of stammering. The skilled teacher first 
gains liking, respect and submission of his patient. He then ensures him 
that his defect will disappear and that he can cure himself and demon- 
Strates to him by correcting the faults that he can speak normally. 


In adult stammerers also, first place in treatment is to be given to 
speech re-education. Even prolonged psychotherapy is seldom effective, 
although the stammer may become less pronounced by the lessening of 


the patient's state of anxiety and the general improvement in mental 
health. 


HARE-LIPS 


Hare-lip and cleft palate are easily corrected by surgery. It is 
essential to correct, these defects before the child starts talking; if not 
defective speech will result. Hare-lip should be corrected even in the 
new-bom period. These can be corrected at a later stage also, but the 
results may not be so good. 


All general surgeons correct these deformities but it would be better 
if done at the plastic surgery department of a major hospital. 


Plastic surgery is particularly beneficial in surgery of the hand and 
foot after burns and correction of deformities for cosmetic purposes. 
Deformities after leprosy are also amenable to surgery. 


The expenditure incurred forplastic surgery is not very high, particu- 
larly in Government hospitals. All hospitals with attached medical 
colleges have plastic surgery departments. It is advisable to contact the 
plastic surgeon of such a hospital for advice regarding surgery according 
to the deformity. 


Face and Throat 157 


The native suffered from bad Tonsillitis and underwent an operation. 


ane 1. Third house is aspected by Saturn 
8 and Mars. Here Saturn is not ma- 
lignant being Yogakaraka but Mars 


is highly malefic. 


2. Third lord Jupiter, who is also the 
sixth lord, is aspected by Mars, 
Saturn and Rahu. Further Jupiter 
being sixth lord, is aspecting third 


3. Venus, the karaka, is in 
Dusthana with malefic Moon and is also debilitated. 


4. Mars, another karaka, is in Dusthana aspected by malefics Sun 
and Mercury. 


5. 31d houses from Sun and Moon are afflicted. 
6. Third house and third lord, both are afflicted. 


7. Gemini sign is afflicted by Saturn and is hemmed in between 
Mars and Rahu. 


This is a case of Pharyngitis. The 

native suffered from the same many 

times. 

1. Third house is aspected by malefics 

Sun and Mars. 

2. Third house is conjoined with 
4 
MARS 


malefic Sun. 
3.Gemini signis hemmed in between 


P< pila 
MER JUP 


4.Venus, karaka for the disease, is 
lord of the6th house, debilitated and 
in Virgo sign. 
5. Cancer sing is afflicted. 
6. Third house from Moon is hemmed Ja between malefics. 
7. Mercury, third lord from Moon, is conjoined with Malefics 


15S Astrology and Diagnosis 


8. Third house from Sun is aspected by Mars and Saturn. 
9. Venus is in sixth house from Moon. 

10. Third lord from Sun is in Virgosign and is also weak. 
11 .Fourth house from Lagna, Moon and Sun are afflicted. 


Thus we find many factors are present in this horoscope to produce the 
disease of PHARYNGITIS. 


x SC This is a case of Diphtheria. 


1. Third Lord is with Rahu and lord 
of 2nd houSe and they all are in one 
house. 


2. Malefic Mars has joined malefic 
Sun, Mercury, and Rahu in 3rd 
house. 
laa ria 3. Rahu and Mars are in third house 
with other malefics. 
4. Gemini sign is afflicted very heavily. 


5. 3rd lord is afflicted very heavily, particularly by Mars and Rahu. 


6. Mercury though third lord is also lord of the6th house and is in 3rd 
house afflicting third house, Gemini. 


7. Venus, karaka for throat is afflicted by malefics, particularly by 
Mars and Rahu. 


Thus we find the third house, lord of third house, Gemini sign, and 
Karaka planets are afflicted heavily by malefics and are quite capable of 
giving rise to disease like Diphtheria. 


CHAPTER 12 


CHEST LUNGS AND HEART 
BRONCHIECTASIS 


In Bronchiectasis there is dilation of bronchi. It is more common in 
males than females. It may be congenital or due to palpitation - fast heart 
beats or tuberculosis, long-standing asthma, unresolved pneumonia, 
emphyema etc. It commonly affects persons between 30 and 50. 


In some persons bronchiectasis causes cough when sitting or lying in 
a particular posture. Excessive sputum is also brought out. Bad smell of 
breathing and blood in the sputum are common. Thickening of finger tips 
may also be noticed. Bronchiectasis may result in abscess, pneumonia or 
heart trouble. An x-ray of the chest and bronchogram test (taking x-ray 
after putting a radio-opaque dye through the bronchi) will help diagnose 
the case. 


When the disease is extensive, operation cannot be done. But when 
it has affected only a lobe or two operations like lobectomy and 
pneumonectomy are advised. 


Medical treatment consists of proper drainage of the sputum by 
postural adoptions, that is the person will have to lie in a particular 
position for about half an hour. This is usually learnt by experience, the 
principle being the position of the lung affected should be higher than the 
trachea. 


Expectorant mixtures, antibiotics and sulpha drugs should be taken 
repeatedly for a long time. Inhalation of Benzoin vapour may give some 
comfort. The general health should be maintained by a well balanced diet 
and vitamins. Exposure to cold should be avoided. 


CHRONIC BRONCHITIS 


Men frequently suffer from Chronic Bronchitis. The features are 
cough, expectoration and breathlessness. Temperature rise is noticed in 
acute attacks. As a result of Chronic Bronchitis, the lungs show changes 
of fibrosis, emphysema, bronchiectasis, etc. In Tuberculosis with Bron- 
chitis there is usually a marked loss of weight with flat chest wall. 
Haemoptysis also may be there. For differentiating chronic Bronchitis 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


due to their causes from that of pulmonary tuberculosis, chest X-ray and 
sputum examinations are essential. 


Persons suffering from chronic Bronchitis must avoid exposure to 
chills, Breathing exercises often cause great improvement owing to both 
physical and psychological reasons. In later stages of chronic bronchitis 
heart trouble may start wherein treatment will be different. 


It usually starts as repeated attacks of cold and sore throat followed 
by an infection of the lower respiratory tract. The attacks are frequent in 
winter. Those who live indamp climates and have occupations in dusty 
atmosphere are most susceptible to chronic bronchitis. Diseases of the 
heart valves, asthma, alcoholism and cigarette smoking can also cause 
chronic bronchitis.1In acute cases the patient may suffer breathlessness 
after exertion. In the long run chronic bronchitis can cause emphysema 
and heart failure. 


It is advisable to have a thorough check up to exclude the presence of 
T.B. Smoking should be stopped. Cover the chest with warm clothing to 
avoid cold. 


RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS 


As opposed to adults, cough and fever in children can be quite 
dangerous since they seem to lack the natural immunity to respiratory 
infections which come to adults by years of repeated small clinical and 
minor infections of the respiratory tract. Furthermore, coughs and fevers 
may indicate onset of infectious diseases like Measles, Whooping cough, 
vaccinda. This shows the importance of preventive measures in a child 
against cough and fever. 


Triple antigen can be given to a child at the age of four months, in 
doses of 1 cc every moth for three months. At the age of three years 1 cc 
can be repeated. At school going age another dose is given. This triple 
antigen is for active immunisation against Diphtheria, tetanus and 
whooping cough. 


Poliomyelitis can be prevented by oral medicines as well as injec- 
tions. Present medical knowledge says oral vaccine is better. In our 
country where typhoid fever is present in an epidemic form, T.A.B. 
vaccine should be given. A child with fever and cough and breathlessness 
should be taken to hospital, as it could be serious. 

I 


Chest Lungs and Heart 161 
WHOOPING COUGH 


In whooping cough good nursing care is essential, especially for the 
seriously ill infant. When vomitting is persistent, feeding should be 
smaller and more frequent than usual. Sudden changes in temperature 
should be avoided. 


Patient with convulsion or persistent difficulty in breathing should be 
placed in a oxygen tent, even though they are not diagnosed and blue. 


Strangling from excessive mucous secretion may be relieved by 
gentle suction and by placing the infant on his abdomen with the head 
lowered to facilitate drainage. 


Mercury and Mars along with Cancer sign and 4th house rule 
Bronchitis. When these planets and houses are afflicted, badly placed, 
related with dusthanas and or with lords of dusthanas or with malefic and 
are also related with Virgo sign, sixth house, lord of sixth house or with 
a disease-inflicting house or planet, they give rise to Bronchitis. 


ASTHMA PATIENT SHOULD AVOID STRAIN 


Bronchial Asthma is an impairment of lung function due to the 
obstruction to airpassage as a result of theoedema of thelining membrane 
of the Broncioles. It occurs as paroxysmal recurrences with intervals of 
relative comfort. Quite a number of cases are due to allergy to dusts or 
inhaled pollens or indigested food or medicines. 


The infections of the respiratory tract causing asthma are chronic 
Bronchitis, Sinusitis, etc. 


Generally, the first asthma attack occurs before middle-age. Attacks 
often start at night or following exertion. Respiration is characterised by 
a wheeze. If the attack follows an infection it lasts for a few days, 
otherwise it subsides within an hour or so. 


Asthmatic patients are often made worse by factors like fumes in the 
atmosphere, change in temperature, excitement and emotional stress. 
Some cases begun in childhood undergo spontaneous recovery during 
adolescence. 


During the asthmatic attack, adrenaline (1;1000) 0.5 cc injection 
gives relief. In mild attacks Ephedrine 25 mg every six hours helps. 


162 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Phenobarbitone 60 mg at night before going to bed usually gives 
undisturbed sleep to the patient. Benadryl expectora nt will help discharge 
the sputum. If the attack does not respond, prednisolone 5 mg tablets four 
times a day may give relief. This should be continued for a week and then 
the dose should be gradually reduced, during the next three weeks (one 
tablet thrice a day for a week, followed by two tablets for another week 
and lastly a tablet a day for ten days). 


In severe chronic asthma, which is not controlled by usual treatment, 
prednisolone 5 mg twice a day is given over a long period. But persons 
who are takingprednisolone as a long-term therapy must keep themselves 
under periodic medical supervision (at least once in I5 days). 


Careful avoidance of secondary factors which are mentioned above 
will help prevent many attacks. Smoking should be avoided. Also avoid 
violent exercises and emotional stress. 


Breathing exercises will help asthmatics who are in the transitory 
stage of developing emphysema. 


ASTHMA 


This is a disease of Respiration characterized by difficult breathing, 
cough etc. Gemini, Libra and Aquarius signs rule Breathing. If these signs 
are afflicted, one will feel difficulties in taking breathing. If these signs 
become Ascendant and be also afflicted, the possibility of suffering from 
Asthma is likely. Mercury is significator for this disease. Its situation, 
strength, conjunction, ete, are important for this disease. When Mercury 
is weak, badly placed, afflicted by malefic conjunction or aspect and if 
the same has some relation with disease-inflicting planet or house, the 
disease of Asthma is likely. 


Moon causes cough. Weak, afflicted or badly placed Moon produces 
disease of Cough. Rahu roles breathing and affliction of Rahu by 
malefics, situation in evil houses or affliction of Airy signs by malefic,; 
Rahu gives ease to diseases connecting Breathing. Third house rules 
sreathing and affliction of 3rd house by malefics or by afflicted Rahu, also 
etoduce breathing difficulties. 


When third house, Lord of third house, Gemini, Libra and Aquarius 
signs, Mercury, Rahu and Moon be afflicted by malefics, in any way, by 
conjunction, aspect etc, be situated in evil houses and be in some way 
related with disease inflicting house orplanet, they give rise to the disease 
of ASTHMA. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 163 


SOME COMBINATIONS FOR ASTHMA ARE AS UNDER 


The effect will vary according to the malefic and benefic nature ofthe 
planets and houses making combinations. 


1. IfSun being Lord ofan evil house, be conjoined with or be 
aspected by Saturn. 


2. Sun in the Ascendant, aspected by Mars. 


3. Any planet in the sixth house aspected by or conjoined with or 
hemmed between malefics. 


4. Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in eighth house aspected by or conjoined 
with malefic. 


5. Lord oflagna with Venus in Dusthana. 

6. Iflagna be aspected by Mars and Saturn. 

7. Sun, Jupiter and Saturn in the fourth house. 

8. Rahu ors Ketu in the sixth house. 

9. Rahu in the 4th house and lord of lagna afflicted. 
10. Afflicted Venus in the 12th house. 


While applying the above combinations, the Strength and position of 
the houses and planets ruling ASTHMA are also to be taken into 
consideration. 


BRONCHIAL ASTHMA 


- Bronchial Asthma is common in males and usually starts between 
the ages 20 and 30. Asthma certainly runs in families. Paroxysms may be 
initiated by dust from rice, corns, pollen or grasses and the smell of certain 
drugs. Fatigue or emotion or a heavy meal may initiate an attack. The 
attacks are often at night starting with sleeplessness, plymia and bouts of 
sneezing. In between attacks asthamatics can live as normal life as 
possible under the circumstances. There is no need to restrict activities 
or diet. Early evening meals are better. If allergic substances are noticed, 
it is advisable to avoid them. It is better to keep out of dusty atmosphere. 


164 Astrology and Diagnosis ! 
Breathing exercises help and by practice may be possible to abort an 
attack. When in status asthamatic, it is advisable to go to hospital. Those 
men who get the attack frequently can take ephedrine regularly. Attack 
of Bronchitis should be attended to immediately. There is no need for an 
asthamatic to restrain from marriage. 


HOROSCOPES OF ASTHMA CASES 


NAVAMSA 


A female. Since her 14th year of age she has been suffering from 
Asthma. She is about 52 and is a victim of a terrible type of ASTHMA. 
Here the Sun is in Capricorn but in7th bhava. The Moon is between Saturn 
and Mars the two powerful malefics. 


NAVAMSA 


Female. She has been a victim of Asthma since her childhood. At the 
age of 35 she is still suffering from Asthma. In Navamsa Moon joins 
debilitation and is with powerful Mars and is aspected by Saturn. 
Moreover Moon is hemmed in be-tween malefics Sun and Ketu. 6th house 
in natal chart is afflicted by Rahu and Saturn. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 165 


NAVAMSA 


Boy aged 10. He gets attacks of Asthma occasionally. In natal chart 
Moon is with Mars and 6th house has the aspect of malefic Saturn. Moon 
is debilitated in Navamsa. 


ay Lo This is a case of ASTHMA. 

1.Gemini, the Airy sign, is the Lagna 
and is afflicted by the aspect of 
sixth lord Mars and also by Rahu 
from 12th house. 

2.Mercury is hemmed between 
malefics and is aspected by sixth 
lord Mars. 


3. Another Airy sign Libra is hemmed between malefics. 
4. Ketu is in the 6th house. 

5. Moon is afflicted by aspect of 8th lord Saturn. 

6. Rahu is in dusthana aspected by 8th lord Saturn. 
7.Lord of Lagna is hemmed between malefics. 

8. Third lords from Lagna, Sun and Moon are afflicted. 


9. Third house of Sun is also afflicted. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


10. Third lord from Lagna is in Virgo sign, a sensitive and disease 
inflicting sign. Further 6th lord Mars is afflicting the third lord 
Sun by aspect from another sensitive house. 


In this case, 3rd house from Lagna and Moon are not afflicted. The 
Airy sign Aquarius is also free from affliction. Mercury, the karaka 
though aspected by sixth lord is in fifth house with the strong benefic 5th 
lord Venus and has become yogakaraka. For these, the person is not the 
worst victim of the disease. 


DISEASES CONCERNING BREASTS AND MAMMARY 
GLANDS 


The diseases concerning Breasts and Mammary glands are also ruled 
by the fourth house. Cancer sign is the seat in natural zodiac. The right 
breast is further ruled by the fourth house and Cancer sign and left one by 

10th house and Capricorn sign. Moon is significator for Breast. 


Second, sixth, tenth houses rule the flesh. Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 
signs, the three Earthy signs, are the seats in the natural zodiac ruling 
flesh. Any disease concerning inefficiency of milk in a mother's breasts 
is due to affliction of fourth house, tenth house, their lords, Cancer, 
Capricorn signs, Moon, etc,. The causes and natures of disease concern- 
ing flesh around the Breasts are to be judged from above places and 
significator for Breast Glands. Venus is significator for all Gland 
diseases. Any disease in mammary glands originates from afflicted 
Cancer, Capricorn signs, 4th and 10th houses, their lords, Moon, Mars and 
Venus. CANCER of Breasts is more frequently seen in women and the 
root cause of the disease is to be looked from the houses and planets 
already mentioned. When sixth house, lord of sixth house, Virgo sign or 
any disease inflicting house or planet make any relation with houses and 
planets ruling diseases of Breasts and they be heavily afflicted by malefics 
or being afflicted be in an evil place, they may give rise to CANCER of 
Breast. When Moon is sixth lord and is in Lagna, and fourth or tenth house 
is afflicted, it may give rise to the disease of CANCER of Breast. When 
fourth and tenth house lord and significator Moon be in the sixth house 
or in evil houses orbe heavily afflicted, they produce the similar disease. 
Affliction of fourth ortenth house, Cancer, Capricorn signs, Moon, ete,be 
afflicted or malefic Mercury may give rise to ULCER in Breast. 
Affliction of the above houses and dry planets or situation of the planets 
ruling breasts in dry house, may make insufficiency of milk in mothers 
breasts. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 167 


Breast bones are thin flat vertical bone in chest connecting ribs and 
their significator Mercury, and any disease regarding the same is to be 
judged from houses and planets ruling breast and from Mercury and also 
from houses and planets ruling bones. 


Sometimes the mammary glands are also attacked by Tubercular 
affection. Such cases are to be detected from Moon, Mars and Rahu. 
When these houses and planets are heavily afflicted and in some way 
related with disease inflicting house or planet or is afflicted by malefic 
Rahu from an evil house, they give rise to tubercular diseases concerning 
Breasts. 


This is a case of CANCER of 


1. Cancer sign is aspected by malefic, 
8th lord Saturn. 


2. Fourth house from Lagna is 
aspected by Mars, Saturn and 
Rahu. Saturn is lord of the 8th 
Wax Van house and Rahu is in Virgo sign 
and therefore their aspects are 
highly evil. 


3. The Moon is aspected by Rahu, Mars and Satum. 


4. Fourth lord Venus is with malefic Saturnand is aspected by Rahu 
from Virgo sign. 


5. Fourth house from Moon is afflicted and 4th house from Sun is 
also afflicted. 


6. Lords of 4th houses from Sun and Moon are also afflicted. 

7. Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn signs ruling flesh are also afflicted. 

Thus we find all the factors ruling diseases of Breasts are afflicted in 
this horoscope. Fourth house from Lagna Sun, Moon and their lords and 


Cancer sign are afflicted here and hence the native suffers from CANCER 
in her right Breasts. 


168 Astrology and Diagnosis 


TUBERCULOSIS 


Tuberculosis commonly affects the lungs. But it can affect any organ 
inthe body. Intra-abdominal tuberculosis consists of enteritis, mesenteric 
and retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy, peritonitis, tuberculosis of the 
liver and fistula in ano. 


Tuberculosis of the nervous system consists of tuberculous meningitis 
and tuberculoma which resembles a brain tumour. 


Tuberculosis of the skin, bones and joints and pericarditis which is the 
covering of the heart is seen. 


Tuberculosis of genito-urinary tract affects the kidney, bladder and 
genital organs. Tuberculosis of theeye manifests as phlyctenular keratitis 
and chorioretinitis. Tuberculosis of middle ear is seen quite commonly. 
Tuberculosis of lymph nodes of neck and tonsils are found very com- 
monly in children. 


TUBERCULOUS LYMPHADENITIS 


Some swellings which can be felt in the neck are the lymph nodes : 
they may be non-specific because of repeated infections of the areas they 
drain. The common cause is tuberculous lymphadenitis. X-ray of the 
chest, biopsy of the gland and examination of blood are required for 


diagabsis. 


Hodgkins disease is a condition mainly affecting the lymph glands 
which become enlarged and remain separate. This condition spreads to 
the liverthé spleen and the other organs. The first symptom may be 
enlargéd nodes in the neck. Fever is often associated with this condition. 
It may be weeks before other symptoms appear. Biopsy of the lymph 
gland will establish the diagnosis, x-ray therapy is the best treatment for 
Hodgkins disease. 


Sunacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord is a progressive 
disease associated with anaemia in which the white matter of the spinal 
cord degenerated. The symptoms appear insidiously. They start with 
numbness and tingling of the lower limbs. Weakness is felt and there is 
unsteadiness in walk. Pain in the calves is often present, Fever and 
Diarrhoea may follow. 


The diagnosis is made after blood examination and analysis of the 
gastro juice. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 169 


In the prevention of Tuberculosis, B-C.G. inoculation is of great 
value. It protects the individual for at least two years, after which the 
effectiveness wears away. Revaccination would be required. 


B.C.G. Vaccine is very useful in children in whom tuberculosis poses 
a great threat and the complication and sequelae are severe. Brain 
damage, meningitis and paralysis occur in children very frequently due 
to Tuberculosis. All children should therefore be given B.C.G. vaccine. 


If the sputum is tested and it shows tubercule bacilli, the individual 
should be segregated in his own house, or preferably in a sanatorium as 
he will be spreading the disease. The sputum and excreta should be 
disposed of with great caution. B.C.G. vaccine is best given soon after 
birth. If given later, the individual will have to be tuberculin testes so that 
infected individuals can be isolated and treated. The others can be 
immunised with B.C.G. vaccine. 


LN.H. is used in treatment of tuberculosis and also in prophylaxis. An 
individual who is in contact with tuberculosis should be given I.N.H. for 
at least six months to a year to prevent the possibility of developing 
tuberculosis. This prophylactic treatment is also given to children who are 
tuberculin positive but may not have the disease, as the severity of 
tuberculosis in children is greater than the adult. 


Rahu in the 6th, and lord of Lagna in the 8th and Moon in combination 
with Mandi brings forth the disease of Tuberculosis during the 36th year 
of the native. Rahu in the 6th, Saturn in a quadrant and a weak lord of 
Lagna in the 7th can give rise to tuberculosis in the 27th year. 


Rahu in 6th, Mandi in quadrant and lord of Lagna in the 8th indicate 
advent of Tuberculosis during 26th year. Rahu combined with Moonand 
Mandi is in 6th house, it denotes attack of the disease during 12th or 19th 
year. 


Association of Sun, Saturn and Jupiter in the fourth house indicate the 
disease. A weak and waning Moon conjoined with and aspected by 
malefics, when situated in the 6th or 8th house, or in Lagna which 
coincide with a watery sign indicates the disease. Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, 
Libra, Scorpio, Capricorn, Aquarius or Pisces are watery signs. 


Moon and Sun together in Cancer or in Leo sign fully aspected by 
malefics. 


Moon and Saturn together fully aspected by Mars give rise to the 
disease. 


170 
Astrology and Diagnosis 


Moon and Sun in Scorpio aspected by Mars or Saturn. 

Sun and Moon or the navamsa falling in each others sign. 

Sun and Mars in the tenth house from Moon give rise to the disease. 
Mars in the 4th house and Rahu in the 12th house from the Lagna. 


Mars in Cancer while Sun in Libra, aspected by Saturn. 


Venus Jupiter or Sun occupying a watery 8th bhava with strong 
malefic connections. 


Sun in 11th Saturn in the 5th house cause respiratory diseases. 


Sun in the 11th, Saturn in the 5th house and other malefics in 8th 
house. 


Satur. in the seventh house when a malefic occupies Gemini sign and 
when the second and 12th bhavas from the Moon are occupied by other 
malefic planets. 


Lagna devoid of benefic connections indicates the disease when 


Jupiter in close association with malefics occupies the 2nd, 6th or 8th 
house. 


Saturn and Mandi in the sixth house aspected by Sun,Mars and Rahu 
indicate respiratory diseases. They must be devoid of benefic aspects. 


Combination of Saturn and Mars in the tenth house when malefics are 
posited in Lagna, 4th or 8th house. 


Fourth house occupied by Malefics and Lord of the Lagna with Rahu 
is in the 8th house. 


Lord of lagna in the 6th house and a weak Moon in the 8th house 
indicate the disease when Saturn, Rahu, Mars and Sun occupy or aspect 
the 5th house. When the Moon and 4th house are afflicted by a malefic, 
while Venus with Rahu or Mars, will produce the disease. 


Mars and Rahu in Lagna in Watery sign and aspected by Saturn and 
Moon in the chart should be weak & afflicted by malefic, give rise to the 
disease. 


Chest Lungs and Heart * 171 


Sun in Lagna aspected by Mars causes disorders of Respiratory 
system. Adecending, weakand afflicted Sunin a weak dual sign aspected 
by malefic will give rise to the disease. 


When Moon is hemmed in between Malefics and the Sun in the 7th 
house cause all sorts of respiratory disease. 


Sun and Jupiter in the 6th house ina watery sign will cause the disease. 


Moon hemmed in between malefics while Sun occupies Capricorn 
sign cause the disease. 


Moon and Mercury combination points towards Tuberculosis. 


Gemini, Libra & Aquarius control the Respiratory system. Cancer, 
Scorpio, Pisces control circulatory system. These six signs, Lagna and its 
Lord, the 4th 6th houses and their lords, Moon, Sun and Rahu should be 
specially studied. 10th bhava from Lagna and Sun when afflicted, also 
from Mercury,Mars and Saturn may also be examined for correct 
indications of this disease. 


TREATMENT FOR TUBERCULOSIS 


If a patient is very ill with Tuberculosis it is advisable to give three 
drugs at a time though usually two drugs at a time are used. Isonicotinic 
acid hydrazide is a drug which is well tolerated. It is free of toxic 
symptoms. It is not necessary to give pyridoxine along with INH. 
Streptomycin injections are given daily along with other drugs upto 
ninety or more grams. It may be repeated if required. It should be given 
by deep intramuscular injections. Rarely it produces fever, rash local 
irritation, vomiting and albuminuria. Deafness may be caused due to 
vestibular nerve damage, but it is reversible. Di-hydrostreptomycin 
produces auditory nerve damage which results in permanent deafness. 


PAS may cause fever, headache, vomiting, pain in the limbs and skin 
rash. Nausea, vomiting and gastrointestinal disturbances may be pro- 
duced. Rarely jaundice due to liver damage and enlarged thyroid may be 
produced. These symptoms will disappear when the drug is withdrawn. 


Thiacetazone is now used especially because to prevent resistance of 
the organism. 


172 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Some of the other drugs that can be used in resistance cases though 
toxic are promizole, kanamycin, viomycin, cycloserine, ethionamide and 
pyrazinamide. 


It is easier to prevent Tuberculosis than cure it. All children should be 
tuberculin tested and given BCG, if required, every two to three years. 
All adults with tuberculosis should be given adequate treatment for at 
least two years. They should be advised regarding the social and 
preventive aspects of thedisease and the heav financial burden on their 
families and the state. 


Every person in contact with a tuberculosis individual should undergo 
a thorough check-up every three or six months. Children should be given 
prophylaxis with INH after assessing the condition. 


Those patients who bring out large number of bacilii or with the 
disease in an advanced stage may be treated in a sanatorium. 


TUBERCULOSIS is an infection caused by bacillus tuberculosis the 
lesson of which are characterized by nodular bodies tubercles and diffuse 
and  filtrations. 


PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS or Tuberculosis of lungs is 
caused when the bacilli reach the lungs. 


PLEURA AND LUNG DISEASES 


PLEURISY is characterized by inflammation of the Pleura, usually 
caused by chill and marked by pain in chest or side fever etc. 


These diseases are very common now-a-days. To find out the causes 
of these diseases, one must look into Cancer sign fourth house, lord of 
fourth house, Sun, Moon and Rahu. Sun and Moon are Karaka for lungs 
diseases. Affliction to these planets and the above mentioned houses 
produces lungs diseases. Jupiter also governs lungs and affliction to this 
planet also can produce similar diseases. When Moon is severely 
afflicted, the root cause is mental: When afflicted Venus joins the 
combinations of thedisease, infection is contacted from wife or women. 
In case of Mercury, in similar position, the root cause of infection is from 


Chest Lungs and Heart 173 


school, play ground, amusement place, business place etc. and in case of 
heavily afflicted Sun, it is contacted from family members. In case of 
Saturn joining the combination of disease of lungs, the infection comes 
from labours, low-class people, factory workers and people in the streets; 
and it is from brothers and sisters, hospitals, battle fields etc in case of 
Mars. 


Rahu plays an impo: @ it part in this disease. In most of the causes of 
lungs diseases, it is seen either Cancer sign or Moon or Sun or fourth house 
of fourth lord is afflicted by Rahu either by conjunction or by aspect. 


Tf no such affliction is found, at least it is seen that Rahu is in dusthana 
and any of theabove houses or planets is weak. Indeed unless any of these 
factors is present in the horoscope the disease cannot come into appear- 
ance. 


The relation of sixth house, lord of sixth house or Virgo sign or disease 
inflicting planet or house with the house and planets ruling lungs are 
necessary to produce the disease of lungs. When Jupiter, being a benefic, 
joins them or aspects them, he suggests recovery from the disease. 
Conjunction of or aspect by benefic planets and lords of benefic houses 
also bring recovery. 

Few Combinations for the diseases of the Lungs are:- 

1. Ifthe sixth house is a watery sign, and Sun and Jupiter be there. 

2. Ifsixth house is a dual sign and afflicted Sun be there. 

3. Sun in lagna aspected by malefic Mars. 


4. If eighth house be a watery sign, and if Venus or Jupiter or Sun 
be there conjoined with or aspected by malefic. 


5. Any planet in the sixth house between two malefics 
conjoined with or aspected by malefic. 


6. Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in the eighth house conjoined with malefic 
and Maraka planet. 


7. Tf Lagna or significator planet be in watery sign, and Rahu and 
Mars be there aspected by Saturn. 


174 


14. 


15. 


16, 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


Iflagna of Karaka planet be in watery sign with Rahu and Mars 
aspected by Saturn and if Moon aspects or conjoins then they 
produce worst type of TUBERCULOSIS. 


Lord of lagna with Venus in dusthana and fourth house afflicted. 


. Malefic aspects Mars and Saturn over lagna. 


. Mutual exchange of houses by SunandMoonin rashi or Navamsa 


and fourth house or these being afflicted. 


. Conjunction of Sun and Moon in Cancer sign Leo sign rashi and 


either fourth houses of these being afflicted. 


. Moon and Saturn in a house aspected by Mars. 


Afflicted Mercury in Cancer sign and 4th house or Moon 
afflicted. 


Sun, Jupiter and Saturn in fourth house. 


If Venus be afflicted in twelfth house and fourth house also be 
afflicted. 


17. Rahu in the sixth house, lord of lagna in the eighth house and 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24, 


fourth house afflicted. 


Presence of Rahu or Ketu in sixth house and fourth house 
afflicted. 


If Venus be highly afflicted by Rahu and Mars and fourth house 
and Moon be afflicted. 


Sixth or eighth lord with Rahu or Ketu. 

Mars in Cancer and Sun in Tula aspected by Saturn. 

If Sun and Saturn be in mutual kendras afflicting lagna. 
If Mithuna rashi be in Kendra and afflicted Sun be there. 


Moon in between two malefics and Saturn in the seventh house. 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29, 


30. 


31. 


32. 


33. 


34, 


35. 


36. 


37. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 175 
Sixth lord with Moon in lagna. 

Debilitated Moon with Sun aspected by Mars or Saturn. 
Afflicted Sun in dual rashi and fourth house afflicted. 


Rahu and lord of lagna in eighth house and fourth house 
afflicted. 


Mercury and Mars in the sixth house in opposition to Moon and 
Venus. 


Mars and Saturn in sixth house aspected by Rahu and Sun. 
Sun in Makara and Moon in between Mars and Saturn. 

Moon and Saturn in one house afflicted by Mars. 

Moon and Mars in the 6th or 8th house aspected by lord of lagna. 
Sun in 11th house, Saturn in 5th house and malefics in 8th. 
Saturn and Mars in 10th and Sun in lagna, 4th or 8th house. 
Mars in sixth house and sixth lord in lagna aspected by Saturn. 
Saturn, Rahu, Mars and Sun in fifth house, lord of lagna in sixth 
house, weak Moon in eighth house and Jupiter with an enemy. 
This is a case of Tuberculosis of 
Lungs. 


1. Sixth house is a watery sign and 
Jupiter and Sun are there. 


2. Fourth house is hemmed in be- 
tween malefics and is aspected by 
Rahu. 


3.Fourth lord is aspected by 8th lord 
Saturn and Rahu. 


176 
Astrology and Diagnosis 


4. Moon is conjoined with Ketu. 
5. Sun another karakas in 6th house. 


6. Fourth house from Sun is afflicted by malefic and its lord Saturn, 
is in dusthana from Sun. 


7.Fourth house from Moon is aspected by malefic Sun and lord 
thereof is also afflicted. 


8. All the planets are with in the revolution of Ketu and Rahu and 
thus have formed Kala-Sarpa yoga. 


9. Cancer sign is aspected by Saturn. 


Thus we find many factors are present in the horoscope to give rise 
to Lungs disease. 


This is a case of PLEURISY with 
10 EFFUSION. 
MARS 


MER 1. Rahu is in sixth house, aspected 
by another malefic. 
» ey 2. Rahu is in sixth house. 


. 3.A malefic in Fourth house. 


4. Cancer sign is aspected by Rahu 
from the sixth house. 


5. Fourth lord is aspected by Rahu from the sixth house. 


6. 4th house from Moon is afflicted and 4th lord is also aspected by 
malefic. 


7. Fourth house from Sun is aspected by Rahu. 
Thus we find the factors responsible for Lungs diseases are present in 


this horoscope. The Moon is in Libra sign and fourth house from Moon 
is Capricorn sign. Though they are Airy and earthy signs, they are also 


Chest Lungs and Heart 177 


known as watery signs. Moreover fourth house from Sunis another earthy 
sign, whose lord is Venus and the same is a watery planet. Venus the 
watery planet is also in the fourth house from Lagna. We find influence 
or water connecting the disease of 4th house in present and hence the 
suffering from Pleurisy with effusion is justified. 


This is a case of Pleurisy. 


1. Mars is in the 6th house and 6th; 
lord Saturn is in Lagna. 


2. Venus is afflicted by Mars ard 


x 
Se 


3. Sixth lord is in Lagna, aspected by 
Mars from 6th house. 


4. Ketu and malefic Moon is in the 
8th house. 


5. Jupiter is in dusthana aspected by 8th lord Mars from 6th house. 
6. Cancer sign is aspected by malefics. 
7. Fourth house from Sun and Moon are afflicted. 


8. Jupiter, fourth lord from Lagna isin dusthana and is aspected by 
8th lord Mars from the 6th house. 


Thus we find many factors are present in this horoscope to give rise 
to the disease of Lungs. Jupiter,(4th lord), Fourth house, Karaka Moon, 
are all in Fiery signs and 4th lord Jupiter is aspected by Fiery planet Mars. 


The person is suffering from DRY PLEURISY and this can be 
justified from predominance of the fiery houses causing this disease. The 
fourth house and Karaka Moon are being aspected by Jupiter, lord of the 
4th house. He is further aspecting the 6th house. His influence over 4th 
house, Moon and karaka planet and he himself being 4th lord minimised 
the malignant qualities of the combinations for the disease and that is why 
the person suffered from Pleurisy only and not from Tuberculosis of 
Lungs. 


178 Astrology and Diagnosis 


This is a case of Tuberculosis of 
Ribs in right side. He was operated 


RAHU VEN 
MER 
2 and affected bones were removed. 

1. Rahu in 12th house of Lagna 
suggests Tuberculosis. 

2. Rahu in Capricorn, a house of 
bones, is with lord of 4th house, 
seat of ribs in right side. Taurus 
sign, ruler of bones is also aspected 
by Rahu. Thus Rahu (capable of 

producing Tuberculosis is afflicting 4th house, lord of 4th house and two 


houses ruling bones. Rahu is further afflicting Lagna and Cancer sign. 4th 
house of natural zodiac, and also Virgo sign another house ruling bones. 


3. Fourth houses from Sun and Moon and lords there of are afflicted. 


4. Saturn, karaka for bones, is in mutual aspect with Sun, who is also 
karaka for ribs. Saturn is also afflicting fourth houses from Sun and 
Moon. 


5. 2nd, 6th and 10th houses ruling bones and lords thereof are 
afflicted. 


Thus we find the planets and houses ruling bones are afflicted and 
related with a planet which is capable of producing Tuberculosis. 


HEART DISEASES 


Heart diseases are disordered action of heart, irritable heart 
neurocirculatory asthenia, pain in heart, etc. Cancer sign is the seat of 
Heart in natural zodiac. Fourth house governs the same. Moon is 
significator for heart and Sun rules the heart diseases. To find out all 
diseases connecting heart one must look into the position of Sun in the 
horoscope. Mars governs the blood. So the affliction of Sun, Moon, Mars 
and Cancer sign, fourth house, lord of fourth house etc and any relation 
of any of them with sixth house, lord of sixth house, Virgo sign or with 
disease inflicting house of planet, give rise to diseases of heart. When 
Saturn joins the Sun, it causes palpitations and shivering of Heart. When 
Ketu afflicts the same, it causes pain in heart. Mars under similar position 
is responsible for all blood circulations. Lagna plays also a part/in this 
disease and generally it is seen lagna or lord of lagna is afflicted in causes 
of Heart diseases. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 179 


Few combinations ruling diseases connected with HEART are 
as under :- 


I. If Ketu joins Mars in the fourth house. 

2. Afflicted Moon in house of enemy. 

3. Sun and Saturn in evil house jointly. 

4. Lord of the 6th house and Sun with a malefic in 4th. 
5. Mars, Saturn and Jupiter in fourth house. 

6. Saturn, Jupiter and lord of 6th house in 4th house. 


7. Mercury in lagna, and Sun and Saturn in 6th house aspected by 
conjoined with malefic. 


8. Rahu and Moon in the 7th house and Saturn in a Kendra. 


9. If Jupiter be afflicted by powerless Mars, sixth lord be with malefic 
and Sun be in Scorpio sign. 


10. Afflicted Moon in fourth house and three malefics in one house. 
THROMBOSIS OF THE HEART 


Fourth house roles the Heart. Cancer sign is the seat of Heart in 
natural zodiac. Moon roles the Heart. Sun governs all the heart diseases. 
Mars controls the circulation of the Blood. The affliction of all these and 
arelation of any of them with disease inflicting house or planet give rise 
to heart disease and also to Thrombosis of heart. Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces signs role overthe blood and therefore the strength of these houses 
are also to be considered. Affliction over these houses also causes 
Thrombosis of heart. The more the malignant houses and planets, more 
they work for this disease. Any connection of these houses and planets 
with eighth house, lord of eighth house or Ayu-Karka Saturn may inflict 
death. When strong malefics pass over these houses and planets or afflict 
them in transit by aspect or by conjunction one may be attacked from 
Thrombosis of heart, provided he has the houses and planets ruling heart 
in his natal chart weak and afflicted. 


180 Astrology and Diagnosis 


ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS OF HEART DISEASE 


In the realm of heart-diseases Rahu and Mars have been found to be 
permanently connected with regard to the Sun and the 4th house by some 
form of relations such as aspect, conjunction, mutual kendra or inter- 
change etc. Broadly speaking, heart-troubles can be predicted when: The 
Sun is afflicted and is connected with the lords of the6th or 8th and when 
4th or Sth house or the lords of these are afflicted - the house is more 


important than the lord - and connection is established with the lord of the 
6th or 8th. 


An afflictionofa house or lord arises by association, by mutual aspect, 
by mutual interchange or by malefics occupying any of the angles. 


Suppose the Sun is in the 6th for a Taurus Lagna person and Mars is 
in Capricorn. The Sun can be considered as afflicted. 


The heart attack may come in the periods and sub-periods of the lord 
of the 6th or 8th or the planets owning or occupying the 2nd or 12th from 
the Sun or the 4th lord. 


Different diagnosis are possible such as Thrombosis, Myocarditis, 


Coronary Thrombosis, Angina Pectoris, Pancarditis, congenital heart 
effect etc. 


Ketu with Mars in the 4th. 

Afflicted Moon in an enemy's house. 

The Sun with Saturn in a malefic house. 

The 6th lord and the Sun with a malefic in the 4th. 
MarsSaturn and Jupiter in the 4th. 

Saturn, Jupiter and lord of the 6th in the 4th. 


Mercury in Lagna, the Sun and Saturn in the 6th aspected or joined 
with a malefic. 


Rahu and the Moon in the 7th and Saturn in a Kendra. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 181 


Jupiter afflicted by weak Mars, the 6th lord joining a malefic and the 
Sun in Scorpio sign. 


Afflicted Moon in the 4th and three malefics in one house. 


If 4th house is heavily afflicted, with Sun and Moon distance is above 
120 degrees or when the Sun is debilitated, usually there is severe heart 
attack. If the dasha and antar-dasha indicate maraka tendency, then death 
may also, occur. The usual exciting cause for ushering in heart disease in 
Dasha and antar-dasha of a planet occupying the 4th, if it be a malefic and 
when the other combinations also are present. 


But apart from this man is influenced by various circumstances and 
habits. For instance certain kinds of food or drinks may excite the heart 
disease or certain acute mental worries or certain extra terrestrial causes 
like Solar-flare. Solar flares as well known for upsetting the life on this 
planet. Solar flares can be connected with Heart attacks. Protection 
against heart diseases, particularly violent attacks and consequent death 
is provided by the following combinations: 


When Jupiter is posited in Lagna whose lord is not void of some 
strength. When there is a Gaj-Kesari yoga in the horoscope. 


When there are combinations for long life. 


The Sun's position in Gemini is said to provide protection against 
Heart disease. 


When both Lagna and the Moon are aspected-by benefics. 


When the above combinations are present, heart attack should not be 
predicted. 


Fifth house and its lord, Sun and Saturn are to be particularly 
examined. The fourth bhava, the sign Aquarius and Rahu may also be 
considered important in this context. 


The following combinations give rise to troubles of the heart- 


1. The 5th house hemmed in between two malefics and occupied by 
a malefic. 


2. The lord of 5th house with a malefic or aspected by a malefic. 


182 
Astrology and Diagnosis 
3. The lord of the 5th in debilitation or in inimical sign or in the 8th 
house; When the 5th lord is combust and is with 8th lord. 


4. When Saturn or Jupiter owning the 6th house gets posited inn the 4th 
with malefic aspect. 


5. Sun as lord of the 6th, posited in the 4th with a malefic. 
6. Mars, Saturn or Jupiter in the 4th aspected by malefics. 
7. Sun and Saturn in the 4th house. 

8. Sun in Aquarius. 


9. A weak lord of the Lagna posited in the 4th with Rahu, aspected 
by a malefic. 


10. When Lagna Lord is in 6th in his debilitation, Mars in the 4th 
aspected by Saturn, give rise to heart attacks. 


ANGINA PECTORIS 


Chest pain which increases after exertion and gets relieved after 
taking rest is known as Angina Pectoris. It may be due to severe anaemia 
or diseases of cardiac valves or blood vessels supplying the heart. The 
pain usually starts on the front portion of thechest and may spread to the 
left shoulder and back. Sometimes the pain may be felt in the neck and 
stomach also. 


The immediate cause of such chest pain is physical exertion. Heavy 
meal, walking uphill, and emotional upsets may also provoke the pain but 
this lasts only a few minutes. Sometimes dull pain may last for a longer 
time. Diseases of the pleura, gall bladder, stomach and vertebra may also 
cause this pain. 


As soon as the first sign is noted, stop all physical effort. For 
immediate relief from pain chew a slycerl tinitrate tablet. Obese persons 
should reduce their weight and avoid exertion. Keep regular habits. Stop 
smoking. 


Angina Pectoris is recognised by the clinical history. The important 
features are the Eternal site of pain, acute pain on exertion and relief when 
testing. The constancy of the type and amount of effort required to cause 
pain is important in diagnosing Angina. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 183 


Patients do not tell of other minor symptoms; their main concern is 
with the one pain and they usually remember well the circumstances of 
the first attack, which is so often indylibl impressed on the mind. 


The relief of pain by nitrites may be misleading; many neurotics are 
relieved by drugs through suggestion and nitrites give relief to spasm of 
smooth muscle elsewhere, for example, oesophago-spasm. 


The results of physical examination are not helpful except where the 
presence of hypertension and organic heart disease known to be associ- 
ated with angina is detected. Even in such cases, it is on the characteristic 
features of the pain that diagnosis is made. The presence of ischaemia of 
the myocardium is confirmed by an electro-cardiogram. 


Individual attacks of angina pectoris are relieved by rest. Most 
patients discover this in the first few attacks and it is advisable to cease 
exertion as soon as the first suggestion of pain is experienced. 


Nitrites specifically relieve anginal pain by causing dilatation of 
coronary vessels; systemic arterioles are also relaxed causing a fall in 
peripheral resistance. Glycery] trinitrate (trinitrin, trinitroglycerin) is the 
drug of choice; it is effective. If administered in tablet form and is devoid 
of the more unpleasant side-effects caused by amyl nitrite. There are no 
long term toxic effects and patients with angina pectoris should always 
carry a supply of fresh tablets. When it is necessary to undertake effort 
which is likely to prod uce pain, a tablet should be chewed in anticipation. 
This will prevent the attack. 


Those situations which cause anginal pain are best avoided. Efforts 
and exercise should as,far as possible be confined to levels below that 
which provokes pain. Hurry should be completely eliminated. Argu- 
ments, excitement or agitations charged with emotional tension should be 
avoided and a quiet philosophic attitude to life developed. 


It is advisable to avoid the spectacle of highly competitive sport, but 
quiet personal exercise of a steady kind, below the level at which pain is 
caused, should be encouraged. 


Large meals are best avoided and exercise should not be taken after 
meals. When there is obesity, weight reduction is advisable and this 
should be carried out by a low-fat, low-calorie regime. Weight reduction 
is most effectively carried out during a period of, supervised bed rest in 
the first instance, when a 1000 calorie diet may be used and salt restricted 
to OS gdaily if there is associated hypertension. 


184 Astrology and Diagnosis 


After an initial response the diet can be increased. That means the 
patient take frequent small meals which are low in fat and cholesterol. 
Never take large meals. It is better to remain in employment but reduce 
the number of working hours and diminish physical and mental loads 
where these are heavy. Sedatives are advisable where emotional factors 
readily produce pain as well as for patients with secondary anxiety. 


It is specially important to ensure sound sleep and barbiturates should 
be used. Smoking is best stopped altogether or reduced if this can be done 
without causing too much mental stress. Alcohol is not contra-indicated. 


CARDIAC NEUROSIS 


The common psychological disturbance associated with cardiac 
neurosis. It is a fear of heart disease. Usual symptoms are pain, difficulty 
in breathing and palpitation without any real disease of the heart. The 
diagnosis is made by a detailed analysis of thesymptoms, signs of anxiety 
and the condition of theheart. An explanation of the psychogenic nature 
of the illness should satisfy the patient that there is nothing wrong with 
the heart. No treatment is required. 


TACHYCARDIA 


Tachycardia means a fast heart rate. Normal resting rates lie between 
50 and 90 beats per minute. In sinus tachycardia, the increased rate is due 
to increased rhythmicity of thesinus node from where the impulse takes 
its origin. This is usually due to diminished tone of the vagus nerve or 
stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system. 


In normal conditions it may be physiological response to exercise, 
emotion and digestion. 


Tachycardia may be pathological when related to its cause. It may 
occur due to damage to the masculature of theheart. It may also occur in 
thyrotoxicosis, arterio venous aneurysm, anaemic Beri-Beri and 
corpulmonale. Any infectious disease with carditis also can cause 
tachycardia. Excessive use of tea, coffee, tobacco, alcohol or certain 
drugs, especially atripine and adrenaline are other causes. Tachcardia is 
a symptom in patient after prolonged illness is convalescence 
psychoneurosis is a common cause of Tachycardia. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 185 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


SOE NG 


SO 


This is a case of Heart Disease. He was warned much before the 
attack. After receiving warning he got himself checked up and _ his 
cardiogram revealed Coronary inefficiency. In September 1966 he was 
admitted to S.S.K.M. Hospital at Calcutta for heart attack. He died on 
2.5.1967 on account of heart trouble at Calcutta. 


The death took place in the Major period of Saturnand sub-period of 
Venus. 5th house is badly afflicted by Rahu and Ketu. Sun, the lords of 
4th and 5th houses are badly afflicted by Saturn. Saturnlord of Lagna and 
12th is posited in the 6th in Cancer and is retrograde. Leo sign is hemmed 
in between malefics Saturnand Mars. 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


The native had first Heart attack on 25.9.1963 followed by violent 
attack on 9th Oct 1963.He ultimately died of Heart attack in January 1972 


when Major period of Venus and sub-period of Saturn was operating. 


186 Astrology and Diagnosis 


4th lord Mercury is in the 8th along with the lord of the 5th Venus. 
There is parivartan yoga between Saturn and Venus. 4th house is badly 
aff-lictedby Rahu and Ketu and the 5th house by Saturn and Mars. Saturn 


is the lord of 8th house. The Sun is afflicted Saturn, lord ofthe 8th. 
Mars is the lord of the 6th. 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


xX 


Lagna is Cancer and Rahu is in exact conjunction. The Sun is 
debilitated in the fourth house from Lagna (in Vishaka) and the lord of 
the 4th Venus in the 5th in his inimical sign Scorpio,is aspected by Saturn 
the lord of the 8th house. 


It was said to be a Myo-carditis case, the muscle of the heart being 
affected. The Moon-Mars association made the native restless. The native 
had a breathing trouble also. 


After the commencement of Rahu's sub-period, pain in the chest 
became very intense and the native died after much suffering. His death 
occurred in Jupiter's major period and Rahu's sub-period. 


According to medical men, Coronary Thrombosis and Angina Pectoris 
are due to faults in blood supply. The death was due to THROMBOSIS. 


The native has a moderate form of heart-difficulty. The fourth house 
is much afflicted and the Sun is in the constellation of Mars, the lord of 
the 6th house from Lagna. The affliction is mitigated by Jupiter's aspect 


Chest Lungs and Heart 187 


BIRTH CHART 


NOAA CAT 
xX KX 


Lom SON) (LN ZoN 


on the 4th house. In this case the heart action is slower than normal but 
at times he suffers severe heart Palpitations and extreme exhaustion. 


SEXAND THE HEART 


When a person is afflicted with any serious illness, including that of 
the Heart, there is more or less total lack of all desire, specially desire for 
the pleasures of life. 


All desires or “vasana” including Kama Vasana or sex desire just 
vanish, till the patient has recovered from his illness. When the heart is 
ailing, reducing the capacity for physical exertion - in other words, when 
there is significant reduction in exercise tolerance - one cannot expect a 
person to have the desire for mundane or worldly pleasures, especially 
those needing special physical effort and emotional involvement. 


For a successful fulfilment of love and sex life, one should be 
physically fit and without any reservations mentally and emotionally. 
The greatest inhibiting factors are fears, doubts; fears and doubts 
particularly regarding one's sexual adequacy and the capacity of one's 
heart to see one through. 


Here the cases of coronary heart disease are discussed where weeks 
of rest and treatment have led to recovery and put the road to resume their 
routine work and physical activity. 


188 Astrology and Diagnosis 


NORMAL HEART AND SEX 


No normal heart has been or was ever harmed by sexual activity. 
Actually a vigorous healthy interest in sex and an active sex life is 
probably the best form of protection against the preconditions tending to 
lead to heart attack, and Cardiologists are agreed that people most prone 
to coronary diseases leading to heart attacks, are those who are over- 
weight and plethoric, due to lack of exercise, sedentary habits and over- 
eating and nervous tension. It is only the physically robust who can really 
enjoy life. No life is really complete and colourful without the splendour 
and gleam of happy sex relationship. 


WAISTLINE - EXERCISE AND HEAT 


The best prophylaxis against coronary heart disease is keeping one's 
waistline under control. Remember the dictum "One's life is inversely 
proportional to one's waistline". 


How canonekeep one's weight and waistline under control? The only 
way is through exercise and of diet control. Remember another dictum 
“the more one eats and the longer one overeats, the shorter is one's life 
span and more prone one is to various forms of degenerative disorders and 
diseases like Diabetes, High blood pressure and coronary heart disease". 


It has been calculated that the average act of intercourse consumes 
about 150 calories. It is the exercise equivalent of about half an hour of 
trudging. An active sex life keeps the weight down and tones one up the 
system. Too much fat and plumpness tend to reduce exercise tolerance 
and get inthe way of sex enjoyment both mechanically and aesthetically. 
To maintain vigourand sexual desire most men and women need to watch 
their weight and waistline. 


One of the biggest burden of the heart is our frenzied, frantic society. 
The daily struggle, frustrations, tensions and anxieties that plague us can 
upset the tranquility of the brain and adversely affect the heart and the 
blood vessels. Good sexual relationship can give peace, tranquility and 
relaxation. 


CAN A PERSON DIE DURING THE SEX ACT ? 


As far as can be ascertained from available literature, the number of 
people who have died during sexual intercourse is insignificantly small; 
less thanhalf percent, that is one in 200 people with previous heart attacks 
finally succumb during intercourse. This could have happened even 
otherwise. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 189 


An interesting observation is that a vast majority of these fatalities 
have taken place inthe arms of someone otherthanone’'s ownspouse. May 
be those who had a heart attack and want to restart sex life after recovery 
will do well to avoid extra marital affairs! 


Why is it important to resume desired normal sexual activity after 
recovery from a heart attack ? Many victims of “heart attack" their 
number is legion, both men and women, tend to feel (doctors are often 
responsible for such demoralisation and what is known as cardiac 
neurosis) that their heart has been damaged permanently and irrepairably 
and they should lead the life of invalids. Once this fallacious attitude is 
dispelled the gloomy dispondent outlook will give place to one of hopes. 
The wife soon realises that her husband's heart attack though might have 
left a ‘scar’ in his heart, it certainly has not affected him in any other way. 
And a person who otherwise could have been a miserable neurotic and an 
invalid, gets back him former vigour arid rest for life. 


ANGINA PECTORIS AND SEXUAL INTERCOURSE 


Patients who get a characteristic gripping chest pain on exertion, due 
to narrowing of coronary arteries supplying blood to hear muscle, are 
greatly benefited by regular sexual intercourse. If they get pain in the 
chest during the act, it can be prevented or alleviated by prior use of 
nitroglycerin or similar drugs which help dilate the coronary blood 
vessels and improve blood supply to the heart. 


Once the patient has completely recovered from the attack this would 
on an average take about three months and once he has resumed his 
normal activity and routine of life - he can gradually restart his sexual 
activity. Though fatalities are reported during sexual intercourse it cant 
be proved to be the course. For every such case reported, there are 
hundreds that prove against. 


In general, Heart disease may be classified into:- 
(a) Congenital or inborn structural defects of the heart. 


(b) (i) Acquired heart disease - In this category are rheumatic heart 
disease, with its generally damaging effect of the valves and 
on the heart muscle. This is by and large a disease of childhood 
and younger people. 


(ii) Disease acquired later in life, generally due to hardening and 
natrowing of the arteries. 


190 Astrology and Diagnosis 


WHICH HEART DISEASE IS WORSE THE CONGENITAL 
OR EARLY ACQUIRED TYPE ? 


It all depends on the extent of damage to the heart and the extent 
exercise tolerance. Most people who survive congenital or early acquired 
heart disease are able to lead a reasonably active and normal life sexually 
as well as otherwise. In any kind of heart disease it is often not so much 
the type of ailment as its extent and degree that really counts. 


Dr John F Oliver in his sexual Hygiene and Pathology, A manual for 
physician (1955) gets down to real base tracts. He writes, one may 
describe as relaxed or sedate coitus, marital intercourse in the presence 
of a good affectionate relationship, with the healthy spouse willing to 
cooperate in all measures (posture, frequency and intensity of act, etc) 
which the patient's health makes advisable. 


As 'moderate' coitus one may describe activity indulged in with 
minimal frequency necessary to fulfil the physical and emotional needs 
of both spouses. Although one may arbitrarily set an average figure of one 
or two times a week frequencies as high as five times a week probably do 
not, per se. constitute harmful excess in couples accustomed to, and 
genuinely and naturally desirous of, this rate. 


"Additional precautions may include that coitus take place in the 
morning rather than at the end of the day; that comfortable and relaxed 
positions be chosen where necessary, and that intercourse not to take 
place with a full stomach, while wearing tight garments or under unusual 
conditions of atmospheric heat, cold and humidity, Coitus interuptus is 
to be avoided". 


Dr. Oliven further points out, "coitus should preferably be in a 
comfortable position, occasioning the least amount of unnecessary 
exertion. Lateral or side position is a comfortable one and require 
relatively little physical exertion and takes the partner's weight off weight 
of each other". 


Several eminent Cardiologists have now come to support the view that 
the best management of ones cardiac condition requires the control of 
one's anxiety, tension, as well as physical restraint. Needless sexual 
suppression or enforced sexual abstinence may itself give rise to tension, 
anxiety which in turn may result in cardiac discomfort and other cardiac 
symptoms. 


Chest Lungs and Heart 191 


Sex is a matter concerning not only the heart but very much the head 
too. Have a rational and balanced view on life and sex and enjoy both and 
leave the heart to be bothered about by the physician or the cardiologists, 
provided the sexual activity does not occasion only undue strain or cause 
panting for breath. A patient who has a heart disease or who had a ‘heart 
attack ’ but is now stabilised, should do the following. 


WITHIN LIMITS - He should keep his family doctor or heart 
specialist informed about any symptoms of distress or discomfort or any 
other new symptoms that may arise. Discuss with his doctor all the 
problems including sex needs without any reservations. He should learn 
to live his life and regulate his physical and other activities, including sex 
well within his limits of tolerance. He should never coax or goad himself 
on to indulge in sex or rouse himself to sexual posture just to prove one’s 
masculinity (or feminity). 


The physician on his part, should after careful assessment advise the 
patient as to bow much sex is safe or good for a particular individual. It 
is however wrong and harmful to think that sex is dangerous or to go to 
the other extreme and say that sex is a penances for heart disease. 


Each patient's cardiac status must be carefully assessed and a 
programme of physical and sex activities within the tolerance capacity of 
that individual should be planned. The attending physician or the Cardiac 
Specialist should carefully and without reservations, explain the 
individual's problems to his spouse and get her to co-operate. And, best 
as one can, calm or assuage unnecessary fears, doubts or obscessions of 
the couple. 


DISEASES OFTHE SPINAL CORD 


Discs are interposed between the vertebrae. They serve as shock 
absorbers for the vertebral column and help in the normal movement 
between the adjacent vertebrae. The disc which is spongy and covered 
With strong fibrous tissue is enclosed in cartilage below and above. 


A sudden strain on the spine causes the disc to protrude on one side. 
This happens in the case of person who do hard physical work. In some 
cases, there may be no trauma. Such cases usually happen in the lumbar 
region, and the neck. When it occurs in the lumbar region there will be 
back pain which shoots down to the legs. Since the veins are likely to be 
pressed by the discs, there may be loss of sensation on the legs. 


The patient should take complete rest in bed till the pain is relieved 


192 Astrology and Diagnosis 


which may take some four weeks. A plaster jacket may be worn for two 
months. A Spinal brace is worn for further period. 


An operation is usually resorted to only when the pain is severe and 
persisting and weakness of muscles develops. The defective disc is 
surgically removed. 


ISCHAEMIC HEART DISEASE 


The exact cause of Ischaemic heart disease, commonly termed as 
heart attack is not known. A few factors, however, seem to be important 
in predicting the risk in a person. Males above 40 years and females in the 
postmenopsual period, those with a family history of diabetes, ischaemic 
heart disease, high blood pressure or, hypertension, presence of diabetes, 
arteosclerosis or hypertension in the individual, persons employed in 
sedentary occupations, heavy cigarette smokers, persons having a high 
level of cholesterol in the blood are said to be particularly susceptible. 


CHAPTER 13 


ABDOMEN 


DISEASES CONCERNING BOWELS AND INTESTINES 
(Peptic, Gastric, Duodenal Ulcers, T.B. of Intestines etc.) 


There are many kinds of diseases concerning the Bowels. The portion 
below the stomach is known as Bowels. Virgo sign is the seat of same in 
natural zodiac, wherefrom diseases concerning the bowels, are to be 

judged. The sixth house governs the same. Sumis significator for bowels. 
Ketu causes all pains in bowels. While judging the diseases of Bowels, 
the position of Leo sign and fifth house are also to be considered, as both 
the places are linked with diseases connecting abdomen. PEPTIC, 
GASTRIC, DUODENAL, ULCERS, TUBERCULOSIS OF BOW- 
ELS, etc, are the various kinds of diseases concerning bowels. While 
judging Ulcers in bowels, positions of Mercury and Mars are to be taken 
into consideration. Affliction of Leo, and Virgo sign, fifth and sixth 
houses, their lords and Sun, and affliction of Mars and Mercury and their 
relation with disease - inflicting house or planet, give rise to Ulcers in 
Bowels. When afflicted Mars and Mercury afflict or join above houses 
and planets ruling bowels and be any way related with disease inflicting 
house or planet by conjunction, situation, etc, they also give rise to similar 
diseases. When Rahu joins the above combinations, it gives rise to 
irrecoverable ulcers in bowels. Conjunction or affliction of the above 
combinations by Saturn or Ketu causes pain in the bowels. 


GASTRITIS is the result of disturbed digestion, abuse of alcohol etc. 
Symptoms are uncomfortable feeling in abdomen, headache, depression, 
nausea, eructations, vomiting, painetc. Venus is significator fordigestion 
and her strength and position is an important factor while considering this 
disease. Affliction of Leo and Virgo signs, fifth and sixth houses their 
lords, significator Sun and Venus and relation of them with disease 
inflicting planet or house, will give rise to GASTRITIS. 


While afflicted and malefic Venus afflicts the houses and Planets 
ruling this disease from a disease inflicting house or being conjoined with 
a disease inflicting planet, she is capable of producing similar disease. 
When Ketu or Saturn joins the same or afflicts the same, it causes pain. 


194 Astrology and Diagnosis 


While judging TUBERCULOSIS OF BOWELS, position of Rahu 
and Ketu should be considered. When Rahu or Ketu afflicts the houses 
and planets ruling Bowels and be in any way related with dusthanas or 
with disease inflicting house or planet it may give rise to TUBERCULO- 
SIS OF BOWELS. The combinations for Tuberculosis have been 
discussed already and any combination making any relation with combi- 
nation for bowels, trouble may produce Tubercular infections conceming 
the fifth and sixth houses. Tuberculosis may be of Intestines, Liver, 
Kidney, Uterus etc. When respective signifying planet, rating the above 
parts of the body, be afflicted along with the houses and planets rating the 
same and a combination for tuberculosis is present, they may produce 


tuberculosis of that part of the body ruled by the signifying planets, houses 
etc. 


WOMB is also to be judged from sixth house and Virgo sign 
significator for the same is Sun. Pain in the womb is caused by situation 
of Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in sixth house or in Virgo sign or by their malefic 
aspects. When malefic Saturn, Rahu or Ketu passes through these houses, 
or over Sun in transit, it may produce pain in Bowels, provided an 
affliction of the houses and planets ruling bowels is present in natal chart. 


Some Combinations for Bowels disorders and diseases connecting 
the same are:- 


1. Sattum in the sixth house or with Moon, Sun or Lagna causes 
diseases connecting stomach and bowels from over-eating or 
insufficient eating or irregular eating. 


2. When Mars in Lagna and Sixth lord is weak, they cause Indigestion. 


3. Afflicted Moon in Virgo Sign produces Bowels irregularities, 
indigestion and disturbed intestinal function. 


4. Moon in the sixth house causes Indigestion. 

5. When 8th lord is weak, Lagna is aspected by malefic and 8th house 
is aspected or occupied by Saturn, they produce Indigestion, 
inability to take food etc. 

6. Saturn and Moon in 8th house cause food poisoning. 


7. Malefic Rahu in Lagna or Dusthana causes disease of Appetite. 


Abdomen 195 
8. Saturn in Lagna in opposition to Jupiter causes windy diseases. 


9.Moon and malefic in 6th house aspected by another malefic cause 
similar disease. 


10. Mercury in 7th house conjoined with and aspected by malefics 
produces similar diseases. 


11. Saturn in Lagna causes constipation. 


12. Rahu or a malefic in Lagna and Saturn in 8th house cause bowel 
diseases. 


13. When lord of Lagna is with lords of second and fourth houses, it 
causes Indigestion, Cholera and other stomach diseases. 


14.Sunin Lagna or Lagna Navamsa and waning Moon, Mercury and 
Rahu in Leo sign cause stomach diseases. 


15. Mars in his own house and lord of Lagna in Lagna with lord of sixth 
house, produce stomach diseases. 


16. Malefic insixth house and sixth lord in seventh house with malefic, 
give rise to similar diseases. 


17. Malefic in fifth house, lord offourth house in 6th house with a 
malefic and afflicted lord of Lagna in Lagna, cause similar 


diseases. 


18. Rahu and Mercury in Lagna in opposition to Saturn and Mars cause 
DIARRHOEA. 


19. Moon and Venus in 8th house cause DIARRHOEA. 

20. Mars, Saturn and Rahu is one house cause DIARRHOEA. 
21. Venus with a malefic in 7th causes DYSENTERY. 
22.Mars and Venus in 8th house cause DYSENTERY. 


23.Rahu and Saturn in 2nd house or Lagna navamsa cause 
DYSENTERY. 


196 Astrology and Diagnosis 


24. If lord of Lagna be in Pisces Navamsa afflicted by malefic, it 
causes DYSENTERY & DISEASES FROM WATER. 


25.Moon in between malefics and Sun in Makara rashi cause internal 
abscess. 


26. Moon in between malefics and Saturn in seventh house cause 
similar disease. 


27. If Rahu or Ketu be in Lagna with malefic sixth lord or be in eighth 
or tenth house and sixth house be afflicted, they produces CAN- 
CER IN ABDOMEN. 


28. If there be any affliction in Virgo sign by Saturn or Rahu, 
particularly when Virgo is Lagna, it suggests TUBERCULOSIS 
OF BOWELS. 


29. If Mars be in common navamsa of Virgo, Inflammatory Tubercu- 
losis of Bowels is suggested. 


30. Moon and Mars in sixth house cause JAUNDICE and VOMIT- 
ING. 


TREATMENT OF CHRONIC GASTRIC AND DUODENAL 
ULCERS 


The objective of dietetic and drug treatment in chronic gastric and 
Duodenal ulcer is to reduce the quantity and acidity of the gastric juice 
and to rest the motor activity of the stomach. 


The stomachshould not be allowed to remain empty fora long but kept 
moderately filled with food which is as little irritating either mechani- 
cally or chemically as possible. Mental relaxation is essentia] and 
freedom from worries must be achieved if possible. 


Frequent feedingis essential. Small quantities of milk should be taken 
frequently. Solid foods may consist of well-boiled and steamed veg- 
etables, fish, meat, toasts, puddings and generally soft foods. These 
should be without spices and irritants, Strict dietary treatment should 
continue for eight to twelve weeks. 


Abdomen 197 


Alkalis may be taken between meals and before going to bed 
especially if any abdominal discomfort and flatuence persists. Anti- 


spasmodics and belladonna are useful in reducing gastric motility and 
spasm. 


A sedative may be taken if required for mental and physical rest. The 
bowels should be kept regular with laxatives if required. Condiments. 
vinegar, acid fruits, skins of fruit and spicy curries should be avoided or 
rather prohibited for several months. In cases of pyloric obstruction, 
surgery is advisable if medical treatment fails. 


Complete physical and mental rest and a strict diet would heal an ulcer 
normally. Diet is of supreme importance. Avoid food with chillies and oil. 
Milk, bread or half-boiled eggs, orange and apple juice, mashed potatoes, 

jam and honey are advisable. Dieting must continue until the patient is 
completely relieved of pain. 


As for drugs NO Aspirin should be taken. Liquid paraffincanbe taken 
for keeping the bowels moving. = 


Surgery is necessary if :- 


(1) the ulcer perforates, 

(2) there are no regular motions, 

(3) the drug and diet treatment fails, 
(4) there is profuse bleeding and 

(5) Cancer is suspected. 


The long ingrained concept that every stomach ulcer is a nest for 
Cancer has been disproved by an American epidemiologist. 


Na ne This is a case of PEPTIC ULCER. 
In this horoscope note Ketu inthe Sth 

alone. He causes peptic Ulcer. And 

hence from young age she is having 


Gastric Troubles often. But here as 
Jupiter is aspecting Ketu, and hence 
she may escape actual formation of 
- : Ulcer. 


198 Astrology and Diagnosis 


This is a case of PEPTIC ULCER. 


He suffered from Colic pains. He 
would have developed Cancer, but 
for the aspect of strong Jupiter from 
his own house. Still he suffered a lot. 
Mark 2nd house governing the teeth 
is also affected by Rahu and Uranus. 
The Sun is strong in his house and 
that is another reason why he did not 
develop Cancer. Note the 8th house. 
It is also afflicted by Mars and Ketu. 


This is a case of PEPTIC ULCER. 


Note the 5th house afflicted by Sat- 
urn. There is Rahu in Lagna, a not 
very pleasant position to have. Mars 
in his own as the lord of Lagna has 
saves her so fat from developing 
Cancer. But she suffers frequently 
from peptic pains. Note Jupiter in 
own house in the 2nd. 


Jupiter inown house in fifth is noted to cause deficiency in off-springs. 
And so also he will cause deficient teeth inthe 2nd house of his own. This 
is true in this case. Irregular and spaced teeth cannot be useful in proper 
mastication and thus cause Peptic Ulcer. 


NN 


This is a case of Duodenal Ulcer. 


1. Leo sign is afflicted by conjunc- 
tion of Saturn. 


2. Virgo sign is hemmed in between 
Malefics. 


3. Ketu is in the 5th house from 
Lagna and Moon. 


4. Sixth house from Lagna and Moon 
which is Taurus is afflicted by 
Saturn. 


Abdomen 199 


5. 5th and 6th lord from Lagna and Moon are afflicted by Rahu and 


Saturn. 


6. Sun, karaka, is afflicted by Rahu and Saturn. Mercury another 
karaka is debilitated and hemmed between malefics. Mars, who is 
also karaka, is afflicted. 


7. 5th house from Sun is afflicted. 5th lord is hemmed between 


malefics. 


Thus we find all causes to give rise to Duodenal Ulcer are present. 


awe 


8 
SAT 


KETU 
MOO! 


VEN 


Bom 30.10.1922. This is a case of 
PEPTIC ULCER. Mark Rahu with 
Saturn in Sth house. Chronic Peptic 
Ulcer. Saturn always denote chro- 
nicity. Though Sun-Jupiter combi- 
nation has occurred inthe 6th, he was 
a glutton in young age. Perhaps that 
became precursor of Peptic ulcer. 


Combination of Mercury and Saturn 
usually causes chronic diseases. 


This is a case of PEPTIC ULCER. 
In this chart there is unfortunate com- 
bination of Saturn and Ketu in the 
5th house with Moon is Jyestha con- 
stellation. The 6th house is also af 
flicted by Mars, a planet of blood and 
destruction of cells. The combina- 
tion of Saturn, Ketu is always feared 
to produce CANCER in the Diges- 
tive system. In this case, this was 
proved correct, and the person de- 
veloped Cancer of the gut. The Sun 
in the 8th gives operations on the 
person. This too was correct in this 
case. 


200 As rology and Diagnosis 


The unfortunate person died in her 39th year from CANCER. Prior 
to developing Cancer, she suffered from hyperacidity and peptic symp- 
toms. 


In this case, Jupiter is aspecting Saturn-Ketu-Moon combination is 
too strong to be affected much by Jupiter's beneficial rays. Besides Mars 
in the 6th and the Sun in the 8th also were responsible for the disease to 
progress. The 8th is the house of chronicity. And Sun in the 8th causes 
operation. 


Bom 8.7.1923. Look atthe 4th, 5th, 
and 6th houses. Rahv is afflictingthe 


5th house, Mars is debilitated in the 
4th house, though debilitation is can- 
celled. Saturn is in the 6th house. 
Rahu snatched some of his issues, 
starting with first issue. Worries 
started Digestive troubles. In Mars 
Pea dasha Mars bhukti, he developed 
Hyperacidity complaints. Burning, 


Bleeching, usual signs. Rahu dasha Rahu Bhukti he suffered from Peptic 
Ulcer in duodenum. And thus completed the picture of sanguine-cum- 
irritable personality. Note debilitation of Mars. 


This is a case of PEPTIC ULCER. 
DISEASES CONCERNING SPLEEN 


Spleen is situated in the left side of the stomach. Ninth house and 
Sagittarius sign govern the same. Jupiter is significator, for Spleen. Leo 
sign, fifth house of natural zodiac, has also its ruling over the Spleen. 
Spleen diseases may be of many kinds, such as, Rupture of Spleen, 
Tuberculosis of Spleen, Abscess, Tumours, etc. 


To produce Tuberculosis of spleen, affliction or association of Rahu 
with the houses and planets ruling the same and malefic influences over 
the same, are necessary. To produce Tumour, abscess orrupture of spleen, 
affliction of Mars in similar way, is necessary. Rahu's affliction also 


Abdomen 201 


causes enlargement of spleen. The function of this organ is to produce 
certain modifications in the blood of most vertebrates situated at mam- 
mals, at left of stomach. As we find the function of the spleen, has 
something to do with, the blood, Moon is a planet also to be taken into 
consideration. 


Thus we find, when Leo, Sagittarius sign, ninth house, Jupiter and 
Moon are afflicted and are in some way related with sixth house or with 
any diseases inflicting house or planet, they may give rise to the diseases 
concerning Spleen. As the Sun is significator for all stomach diseases, 
position and strength of this planet is also to be considered. 


THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME COMBINATIONS FORTHE 
DISEASE, which should be applied considering whether the planets are 
malefic or benefic for the horoscope in question.: 


1. If Moon be hemmed in between malefics and Sun be in Capricorn. 


2. If waning Moon with a malefic be in the Ascendant belonging to 
Saturn or be in the sixth or eighth house. 


3. When Moon is between malefics and Saturn is in the 7th 
4. If sixth lord Moon be aspected by malefics. 
5. When malefic Jupiter is in Lagna or in evil house. 
6. When Mars is in the Ascendant and lord of sixth house is weak. 
LIVER 
DANGER IN DRINK 


ALCOHOL dehydrogenase is an enzyme which catalyses the 
break-down of alcohol in mammals. This enzyme exists not only in yeast 
and plants but also in fish and mammalian liver. This enzyme contains 
significant quantity of-zinc which is at the active site and indispensable 
to enzymatic activity. 


The high content of this enzyme in yeast serves to produce alcohol 
in the fermentation process. It is well-known that indigestion of large 
quantities of alcohol produces cirrhosis of liver, which is destruction of 
the liver cells and fibrous tissue replacement. 


Damage to the liver causes gastro-intestinal upset, indigestion of 
food, loss of appetite, and accumulation of fluid in the abdomen which 
presents as distended abdomen, anaemia and swelling of thefeet. When 
the body is unable to handle the continuing load of alcohol, chronic liver 
damage is to be expected, leading to non-synthesis of protein and of 
enzymes such as alcohol dehydrogenase. 


202 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Alcohol dehydrogenase activity varies with individuals; hence then- 
capacity to detoxify alcohol also varies. That is why certain individuals 
escape damage to the liver while others who consume far lesser quantities 
get liver damage. 


It is wrong to think that if one consumes adequate food with alcohol 
no damage to the liver will occur. Whether the stomach is empty or filled 
with food the toxic products produced will certainly damage the liver. 


Disulfiram or Antabuse is used in the treatment of alcohol addicts. If 
alcohol is consumed after taking the drug, toxic symptoms with severe 
nausea and vomiting occur and may cause disgust for alcohol in the 
patient. This has not been very successful as alcoholics do not choose to 
take the drug and then drink the alcohol. 


Tincture of angelica taken on empty stomach in a dosage of ten drops 
in an ounce of water, once daily regularly for several months has helped 
some alcoholics to give up drinks. This is an alcoholic extract of angelica 
in very high dilutions and available only at few homeopathic chemists. 
Its mode of action is not known as no research has been done on 
homeopathic drugs except a few. 


JAUNDICE 


JAUNDICE is the yellow discolouration ofthe body issues and fluids 
caused by excessive bilirubin, a bile pigment. 


Jaundice is apparent when the serum bilirubin reaches levels of 2.5 to 
3 mg per 100 ml. It is mainly caused by diseases and derangements in the 
liver. 


Jaundice is first seen in the selera and conjunctive of the eyes next in 
the mucous membrane of lips, hard palate and sublingual areas, and 
finally on the skin. Jaundice may be missed in artificial light. 


Infective hepatitis is a common cause of Jaundice and is caused by a 
virus. The gastro-intestinal tract is the usual portal of entry for the virus. 
The virus is demonstrated in the stools until the recovery is complete. 
Infective hepatitis occurs also in an epidemic pattern and there is a high 
incidence of non-icteric cases during an epidemic. 


Serum hepatitis caused by a different virus occurs due to injection of 
humanserum products. Its incubation period is 60 to 180days. Incubation 
period of mfective hepatitis is 14 to 40 days proceeding Jaundice. 


Fever .malaise, headache and chill are present at the onset. A mild 
respiratory tract infections is common. Anorexia or loss of appetite is an 
early system. Nausea and vomiting also occur. 


Abdomen 203 


Pain in the upper abdomen due to enlarged liver and constipation 
generally occur. Bile is generally present in the urine. Pruritus occurs in 
some cases as also haemorrhagic phenomena. The central nervous system 
can be involved causing delirium, tremors of hand, coma and electro- 
encephalographic changes. This can even be fatal. 


Treatment is symptomatic. Bed rest is advised until jaundice disap- 
pears. Intra-venous fluids are given in cases of severe vomitting. A high 
carbohydrate diet and fruit juices are advised. Excessive fat should be 
avoided. In severe cases proteins are excluded. Corticosteroides, in large 
doses, and neomycin are given. 


Intramuscular injections of human gamma globulin (in doses of 02 
ml per kilogra m body weight) is effective in prevention of this disease and 
will attenuate the disease in those already exposed. 


Being a stool-borne infection, “enteric precautions” should be ob- 
served. 


AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 


Amoebic Hepatitis and Liver abscess are secondary conditions of 
Amoebic Dysentery. Amoeba reached the liver through blood. If not 
treated the abscess may rupture inside abdomen or into the lungs. The 
symptoms are fever, loss of weight, dyspepsia, vomiting, pain in the 
abdomen, diarrhoea, sleeplessness etc. Stool examination, screening and 
X-ray will help make a definite diagnosis. 


Amoebic Hepatitis and abscess can be cured with emetin injections. 
Sometimes pus has to be drained from the lung abscess. After a course of 
emetin is over, chloroquin tablets may be taken. Children need only half 
a grain of emetin for about six weeks. 


Since emetin can cause damage to the heart, the patient should take 
complete rest in the bed during the treatment. 


DISEASES CONCERNING LIVER 


Liver is the large glandular organ in Vertebrate secreting Bile and 
purifying blood. There are many kinds of diseases concerning Liver, such 
as JAUNDICE, CIRRHOSIS OF LIVER, CANCER OF LIVER, 
TUBERCULOSIS OF LIVER, ABSCESS OF LIVER, etc. The fifth 
house roles the same. Leo sign is the seat of Liver in natural zodiac. Jupiter 
is significator for the same. Sun and Mars are the planets who govern 
Biles. 


Moon is the ruler of Blood. When Leo sign fifth house, lord of fifth 
house, Jupiter, Moon, Sun and Mars are afflicted badly placed, and make 


204 Astrology and Diagnosis 


some relation with disease inflicting house or planet, they suggest Liver 
troubles. As Sunis also the significator for stomach, his situation, strength 
etc are important for the disease of the Liver. Mars is the planet which 
produces Abscess and affliction of Mars with fifth house by malefic Mars 
or some connection of Mars with fifth house or lord of fifth house of 
signifyig planets being afflicted, may produce Liver Abscess. Rahu's 
affliction in similar way is responsible for Tuberculosis of Liver. When 
all the malefic planets afflict the houses and significators ruling liver and 
be related with disease inflicting house or planet, they may give rise to 
CANCER OF LIVER. 


Some combinations ruling Liver diseases are :- 


1. IfMoon be hemmed in between Malefics and Sun be in Capri- 
corn sign, they may cause Liver Abscess. 


2. If Moon be in between two malefics and Saturn be in the seventh 
house, they may produce Liver Abscess. 


3. Amalefic Jupiter in lagna or Dusthana causes Liver diseases. 


4. Lords of Lagna and eighth house with Jupiter cause the similar 
disease. 


5. Lords of lagna, second and fourth houses in one house afflicted, 
cause the similar disease. 


6. Lord of lagna in 6th house along with Jupiter gives rise to similar 
disease. 


7. Lord of lagna, lord of fourth house and Jupiter in one house being 
afflicted, cause the similar disease. 


DISEASES OF BILE 


The bilious of Pitta planets are Sun and Mars. The affliction of these 
planets give rise to bilious diseases. Seat of this disease is Leo and Virgo 
signs in natural Zodiac, fifth and sixth houses govern the same. JAUN- 
DICE, SLEEPLESSNESS, INCREASE OF HUNGER, all these are 
bilious diseases. The disease come into presence, when Biles increase. 
COLIC is the result of a diseased bile. Other bilious diseases are 
BURNING WARMTH, SUPPURATION, ULCERATION, etc. When 
the above planets, houses, and house-lords ruling biles are afflicted by 
malefics by their conjunction, aspect, etc, the bilious elements in the body 
increase, while the planets, houses and house-lords are weak and af 
fiteted, the bilious elements in the body decrease. 


Abdomen 205 


The Stars BHARANI, MRIGSIRA, PUSHYA, POORVA- 
PHALGUNI, CHITRA, ANURADHA, PURVASHADHA, 
DHANISHTHA and UTTARA-BHADRAPADA tole the Bile and 


people, 


bom under any of thesaid stars, as lagna 01 rashi or affliction of 


any of them im natal horoscope, are liable to suffer from bilious com- 


plaints 


When above planets, houses and their lord ruling Biles be weak, 
afflicted, placed in evil houses, conjoined with evil lords or malefics and 
be in any way related with the disease inflicting house or planet, they give 
rise to bilious diseases. 


Some combinations for the same are as under :- 


1. 
2. 


6 
7. 
8 
9 


10. 


ll 


When Mercury is with lord of lagna alongwith lord of sixthhouse. 


When Sun is conjoined with a malefic and is also aspected by 
another malefic. 


When Sun is in eighth house, Mars is without strength and a 
malefic is in second house. 


When Moon is in house of Mars hemmed between malefics. 


When lord of 6th house is in 8th house along with Sun and a 
malefic. 


When Saturn, Mars, Jupiter are in lagna. 

When lord of 6th house is with Venus, Mars and Saturn. 
When Mars is in Cancer sign in opposition to Sun. 
When Venus, Sun and Saturn are in house. 


If weak Sun or Mars be in 8th house and malefic be in second 
house. 


. When Rahu is in the eighth house aspected by malefic. 
12. 


If Mercury be in lagna with lord of sixth house. 


This is a case of LI VER disease. The native suffered many times from 
serious diseases concerning LIVER. 


1.Leo sign is afflicted by conjunction of Saturn and also by aspect 
of Mars. 


2. 5th house is conjoined with malefic Mars, Rahu and Sun and is 
also aspected by Saturn. 


206 Astrology and Diagnosis 


3. 5th Lord Venus is with 6th lord 
Mercury. 


4. Sun, a karaka, is heavily afflicted. 
5. Jupiter, anotherkaraka, is afflicted 
by Saturnbeing strongly aspected. 
6. 5thhousefrom Sun and Moon and 
5th lord from Moon are afflicted. 


7. Mars and Moon ruling biles and 
blood are heavily afflicted. 


Houses and planets in this chart ruling the diseases concerning 
LIVER are afflicted and are competent to give rise to the diseases of 
LIVER. 


This is a case of constant Bilious 
complaints. 


1. Sun is with malefic Mars and is 
ens by another malefic Sat- 


2. Sun is in 8th house; Mars is with- 
out strength and is afflicted, and 
malefic Saturnis inthe 2nd house. 

3. Weak Mars and Sun are in the 8th 


house and malefic Saturnis in 2nd. 
4. Karaka Mars and Sun are afflicted. 
5. Virgo sign is afflicted by malefics. 


6. Sixth house from Moon is conjoined with Rahu and lord of the 6th 
house from Moon is also afflicted by Rahu. 


7. 5th house and Moon are afflicted. 


8. 6th house from Lagna is aspected by Rahu and Moon, 6th lord 
therefrom is in Dusthana. 


Many factors are present in this chart to give rise to Bilious com- 
plaints. Though Leo sign is well guarded in this chart, affliction of other 
houses and planets ruling BILES are more stronger. 


Abdomen 


WORMS 
HOOK - WORMS 


Hookworm infection is very common in our country. The larva of 
hookworm infect the human skin through hair follicles or through any 
break in the epidermis of the skin, usually of the foot. Hookworm 
infection is a common cause of anaemia and must therefore be looked for 
in every case of anaemia and pallor. 


Systemic toxaemia, disturbed digestion, gastro-intestinal disturbance, 
unformed tarry stools, mental apathy and retarded growth occur due to 
hookworm infection. Detection and treatment of all infected persons to 
reduce soil contamination, provision for and use of sanitary toilets, and 
habitual use of footwear help in prevention. Children should be warned 
of the dangers of going bare-footed in infected areas. 


Before treatment is undertaken, the patient should be treated for 
anaemia with a well balanced nutritious diet reinforced with iron. If 
anaemia is very severe, blood transfusion may be required. The previ- 
ously used anthelmintics such a thymol, oil of chnobodium, and 
carbonchloride are too toxic for general use. 


Tetra-chlorethylene is well tolerated. It is most effective on empty 
stomach without pre-trea tment or post-treatment purgation. When small 
children are in poor physical state, hexyl resorcinol crystoids should be 
first administered. The drug is given after overnight fasting in a dose of 
0.1 gram per year of development age upto ten years. Two or three doses 
at weekly intervals will reduce markedly the level of hookworms to below 
clinical significance. 


Hydroxynaph throat of bephenium have been found effective in 
hookworm infection. The adult dose of 5 mg. without preliminary 
purgation is administered after an overnight fast. All anthelmintics 
should be administered under medical supervision. 


TAPEWORM 


Tapeworm is produced by the beef tapeworm and pork tapeworm by 
consumption of improperly cooked or raw beef and pork which are 
infected. The larvae are digested out of the meat in the human stomach, 
become attached to the small intestine and in about three months develop 
into mature worms. 


The infection causes digestive disturbance and diarrhoea. False 
hunger pains may occur especially at night. The gravid proglottides 


208 Astrology and Diagnosis 

migrate from the anus and crawl down the leg causing great inconve- 
nience to the patient. The worm which measures several feet in length 
causes considerable nutritional drain on the patient. 


The beef tapeworm has a length of 15 feet or more. Inflammation of 
the appendix may be caused as also neuro-toxic manifestations. This 
infection can be prevented by eating only well boiled beef and pork. The 
sanitary disposal of human faeces is essential. Quinacrine or Atebrine is 
less toxic and more effective. Ayurvedic preparations are very effective 
in tapeworm treatment. 


THREAD WORMS 


Thread worms inhabit the colon and at night produce great discomfort 
by migrating out through the anus, causing itching, frequency of micturi- 
tion, vaginal discharge etc. 


Prevention of auto-infection is important. It is done by scrupulous 
care of the hands and nails, which may become contaminated by 
scratching during sleep. The nails should be kept short and hands well 
washed and scrubbed with carbolic soap, immediately after waking, after 
defaecation and every time there is a possibility of contact. Clothes should 


be changed daily. Preferably all the family members should be treated 
simultaneously. 


Piperazine syrup (one ounce at night for three days) is enough to cure 
this. 


Children are particularly susceptible to threadworms. They are 
exposed to infectionby scratching the itchingskin around the anus, where 
thread-worms eggs are lodged, or from soiled night garments, bed linen 
or contaminated objects. The eggs get on to the tips of their fingers and 
then into their mouths. Breathing in of airborne eggs also causes infection. 
It occurs rarely due to retroinfection. 


The visible eggs that are swallowed pass down the digestive tract, 
hatch at the duodenal] level and the larvae migrate directly to the caecum 
and develop into full grown worms. Their presence may produce symp- 
toms of acute or sub-acute appendicitis, with indication for excision of the 
organ. Pruritus and severe itching may cause secondary bacterial infec- 
tion and weeping eczematous lesions, Vaginitis may occur due to direct 
invasion by the adult worms, Eosinophilia may be produced. Irritability, 
loss of appetite and weight and insomnia may occur in children. 


Nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea are common side-reactions. All 
infected persons in the family or dormitory must be treated simulta- 
neously. 


Abdomen 209 


ROUND - WORM 


The round worm commonly lives in the small intestine. The mature 
female worm is about the size of a pencil and the male is a slightly smaller. 
The female lays approximately two lakhs eggs each day. The eggs pass 
along with the faeces and get deposited on the ground or soil. The 
embryonated eggs remain infective for months and even years. Children 
take some of the eggs in the mouth on contaminated fingers or play 
objects, or as result of eating dirt. 


The eggs hatch in the intestinal tract and grow into mature worms. 
Some of them are spontaneously evacuated or may be vomited. 


Allergy to round worm toxins may be seen as urticaria, asthma and 
eosinophilia. The most common complaint of infected children is intes- 
tinal colic or rarely a rapid rise of temperature." 


At times acute intestinal obstruction may result in the perforation of 
the wall, intestinal intussusception or paralytic ileus, all of which, are 
dangerous. These are particularly caused by drastic wormiruges and 
purgatives. 


ROUND WORMS CAN CAUSE JAUNDICE 


Ascariasis or round-worm infection is very common. The roundworm 
measures between 15 to 40 centimeters. 


Roundworm ova get inside huma n beings with contaminated water or 
food and pass into the intestine. They penetrate the intestinal wall and 
may go to the lungs and then with trachea and oesophagus again reach the 
intestine. They can even cause Pneumonia while they pass through the 
lungs. They may produce skin rashes and itching. 


In children they produce gnashing of teeth at night, dysentery and 
even intestinal obstruction when a number of roundworms coil up. 
Round-worms are also known to cause Jaundice and liver abscess. 
Sometimes the patient vomits the worms. 


Antepar is the cure. For children six tablets are given (ina single dose) 
at night before meals and a pergative in the morning. If the tablets cannot 
be chewed and swallowed by the child, antepar elixir (six table-spoon- 
fuls) can be given in the same way. Adults should take eight tablets at 
night before the meals and a purgative in the morning. 


GIARDIALAMBLIA 


Giardia Lamblia is the parasite inhabiting the small intestine. Even in 
healthy persons these parasites may be found instools. However, they can 
cause attacks of loose motions not infrequently. 


210 Astrology and Diagnosis 


GASTRO INTESTINAL SYSTEM 
The normal physiological process which are taking place within our 
bodies day to day are controlled by various nerve centres and reflexes,which 
in turn are governed by planets. It is interesting to note that the planets 
have a great say in our day to day life. 


In this system are mainly discussed digestive process which occurs 
both in stomach and duodenum. Physiologically the digestion depends 
upon the normal secretions of digestive juices and enzymes in the 
stomach and duodenum. But astro logically, the Sun who is the leader of 
all planets, controls this process. The food we take is acted upon by 
digestive enzymes and split into molecular form to be absolved in the 
body. The Sun mainly controls the process. 


If the Sun is eclipsed in the horoscope or if he is associated with Saturn 
the digestive process will be faulty. That is the reason why our sages 
prohibited us from taking any food when the Sun is about to be eclipsed. 
When the whole terrestrial phenomenon is undergoing a change, it is but 
natural that our digestive system is also affected. The secretion of gastric 
juices and action of enzymes depend upon the clear and bright rays of the 
Sun. If the Sun is colored, as in rainy season, or early winter our appetite 
is dulled and digestion is not perfect. But when the sky is clear with bright 
rays of the Sun, you will see that the appetite as well as digestive 
improves. This is a basic observation of us all. The other major planet, 
Jupiter is also responsible in the digestion of fats and has jurisdiction over 
the pancreatic juice and Liver and gall bladder. 


STOMACH DISEASES 


The stomach has been assigned to Fifth house and Leo Sign. The Sun 
is significator for the same. Affliction of fifth house, lord of fifth house, 
Leo sign, and Sun give rise to the diseases and troubles concerning 
stomach. Further, fifthhouse rules the right side of thestomach along with 
Leo sign, while ninth house and Sagittarius sign rule the left side of the 
same. 


Saturn and Ketu cause all stomach pains. Saturn produces all diseases 
torn irregular and bad eating, while Ketu produces all diseases from 
.anger and insufficient eating. The disease of the fifth house, i.e. stomach 
aS mostly interlinked with diseases connecting bowels which is governed 
by sixth house and Virgo sign. We shall now discuss many diseases 
concerning fifth and sixth houses. 


EXCRETORY SYSTEM 


In normal physiological processes which are taking place within our 
bodies day to day are controlled by various nerve centres and reflexes 


Abdomen 211 


which in turn are governed by planets. It is interesting to note that planets 
have a great say in our day to day life. 


In this system the planet Saturn has a great say. As we all know, he 
causes windy diseases. Whenever he is associated with the Sun, he causes 
undue fermentation of food and gives rise to gases, thereby affectingboth 
digestive and excretion. Whenever the Sun passes over Saturn, be it in his 
radical position or in Gochara positions, Saturn interferes with normal 
excretion and causes constipation; that is the reason why some of us get 
constipated at some or other time. This result will also occur even when 
Saturn aspects the Sun or vice versa in Gochara. 


FLATUENCE 


Flatuence or presence of gas in excess may be in the stomach and in 
intestine. Aerophagy or swallowing of gas is the most common cause. 
This is because every time you try to expel the gas by eructation really 
more gas goes in. 


Excess salivation also induce swallowing of air along with the saliva. 
The gas formed in the stomach and intestine may not be properly 
absorbed, thus giving rise to excess gas inthe gastro-intestinal tract. This 
happens in cirrhosis of Liver, Asthma, Bronchitis etc. 


Gastric flatuance gives rise to heaviness in the abdomen, difficulty in 
breathing or discomfort. Avoiding eructation, and carminative mixtures 
amd old treatment of cinnamon oil or drinking hot water will help. If 
dyspepsia is the cause, it requires treatment. 


Frequent indigestion and regurgitation may be as a result of smoking, 
alcohol, excess of condiments. These have to be avoided. 


The heart-bum and indigestion can be cured by taking water, soda 
bicarbonate or antacid mixtures or tablets after food. 


DYSPEPSIA, DIARRHOEA AND CHOLERA 


Dyspepsia is caused from Indigestion. Diarrhoea results from too 
rapid passage of the contents through the intestine, resulting into fluid 
stools. Cholera is seen with profuse and frequent stools, incessant 
vomiting and excited by an attempt to take food and drink. 


The root cause for these diseases are to be found out from Virgo sign, 
sixth house, lord of sixth house and the Sun, significator, for Bowels. 


Venus is significator for digestion and affliction of Venus along with 
afflictedabovehousesand planets and some relation of them with disease 


212 Astrology and Diagnosis 


- inflicting house or planet, give rise to dyspepsia a nd other diseases from 
indigestion. The Moon is significator for Diarrhoea. Affliction of sixth 

house, lord of sixth house, Virgo sign, significator Sun and significator 
Moon and their relation with disease inflicting planet or house may give 

rise to Diarrhoea. Mercury is significator of Cholera. Moon also rules over 
vomiting. Affliction of Virgo sign, sixth house, lord of sixth house, 
Significator Sun, significator Mercury and their relation with disease 

afflicting planet or house, and also a relation with malefic or afflicted 

Moon produce Cholera. When afflicted Mercury and Moon be in sixth 

house or in Virgo sign, or related with the lord of thesixth house, they are 

also capable of producing similar disease. Rahu is significator for all 

epidemics. When one is victim of Cholera from epidemic, the root cause 

is to be looked out from situation of Rahu in the horoscope and also from 

the relation with the houses and planets producing Cholera. 


Any link of these houses and planets with eighth house, lord of eighth 
house, lord of 22nd Drekkana or with death inflicting house or planet may 
cause death. Mercury, further, works for all troubles from poison and 
when strongly afflicted Mercury joins the houses and planets ruling 
bowels or afflicts them by aspect, it may result into troubles in Bowels 
from Poison. The second house and the Taurus sign rale over food and 
affliction of these houses, lord of second house and Mercury and mutual 
relation among them may bring sufferings from food poisoning. When 
Mercury being second lord be afflicted and second house and Taurus sign 
also be afflicted, they may bring similar trouble. Watery signs Cancer, 
Scorpio, Pisces, have also something to do regarding Cholera and 
Diarrhoea and their connection with the combinations for these diseases 
are always bad. 


DYSENTERY 


Dysentery is a disease with inflamed mucous membrane and intestinal 
glands, griping pains and mucous and blood evacuations. Fifth and sixth 
houses are the places wherefrom the root causes of this disease are to be 
found out. Leo and Virgo signs are the seats of this disease in natural 
zodiac. Venus works for indigestion and Mars for bloody evacuations. 


Affliction of Leo and Virgo signs, fifth and sixth houses, their lords, 
significator Sun and also Venus and Mars, or affliction of above houses 
and their lords by malefic Venus and Mars, or affliction of these houses 
and planets by evil lords give rise to Dysentery. As Sun, significator, for 
all bowel diseases, his strength and position is an important factor. Ketu 
and Saturn are responsible for all pains. Affliction of the above houses, 
their lords and signifymg planets by Saturn or Ketu produces pain with 


Abdomen 213 


the same disease. Saturn, Rahu or Ketu's affliction may make the disease 
chronic unless the combinations are well guarded. As Watery signs have 
also some function in this disease their relations with disease making 
combinations are always bad. 


DISEASES CONCERNING GALL BLADDER 


GALL BLADDER may be attacked from the diseases of inflamma- 
tion, cancer, stones etc. The root causes of the diseases of Gall Bladder 
are to be found out from sixth house, Virgo sign in the seat of the same 
in natural zodiac. Sun is significator for all diseases concerning Bowels 
and Mercury roles over the diseases of Gall Bladder. When Virgo sign, 

‘ sixth house, lord of sixth house, and evil lords, or when the houses ruling 
Gall Bladder and significator Sun be afflicted by a malefic Mercury and 
be in any way related with disease inflicting house or planet, they produce 
diseases in Gall Bladder. Saturn is significator of all stones. Whenmalefic 
Saturn afflicts them or makes some relation with them, it causes stone in 
Gall Bladder. Mars is responsible for inflammation. When malefic Mars 
joins the combinations of diseases of Gall Bladder or afflicts them, he 
produces Inflammation of Gall Bladder. When combinations for Gall 
Bladder diseases are heavily afflicted by malefic Rahu, Ketu, Saturn, 
Mars, etc, and the Ascendant be also afflicted, they give rise to CANCER 
OF BLADDER. 


AMOEBIASIS OR AMOEBIC DYSENTERY 


Amoebiasis denotes intestinal amoebiasis, amoebic dysentery and 
amoebic Hepatitis and liver Abscess. Amoebic Dysentery results from 
infection of the colon and the stools may contain blood and mucous or it 
may appear to be a simple Diarrhoea. 


Atleast three-fourths of our population is said to suffer from amoebiasis. 
At times, the attack may go unnoticed when it is not severe. In its trial it 
leaves behind chronic dyspepsia, lalaise, general weakness, flaruence, 
indigestion and unexplained constipation. It can affect the liver and add 
to these symptoms when chronic. 


Alcohol worsens amoebiasis and flare-up of a chronic attack will 
occur. The liver will also be excessively damaged. 


In all cases of chronic Dyspepsia, flaruence and indigestion it is wise 
to have a stool examination. It may not always reveal dysentery even 
when it exists in chronic cases. Therefore, every patient who has been 
trying drugs after drugs can take hepatic stimulants preferably of indig- 
enous origin for which you may consult your family physician. Vitamin 
B-Complex and liver extract will also help. 


214 Astrology and Diagnosis 


A course of anti-amoebic drugs such a emetine, emetine bismuth 
iodide, Carbar-sone, sulphaguindine, sulpha theiazole, chloroquine phos- 
phate, vioform, tetracyclines, hydro-xyquinoline, and furoate, should be 
given. Patients differ in their response to drugs. Furaote has been found 
to be effective as also chloroquine ina large numberof patients along with 
the indigenous liver stimulants. It is advisable to take each drug for about 
a week and then change to another under medical supervision. 


As the disease is acquired by faecal contamination of food and water, 
it is important to ascertain that cooks are not carriers. Food should be 
protected from files, and measures should be taken to avoid contamina- 
tion of water and uncooked vegetables. 


Alcohol and oily, spicy foods should be avoided by those who suffer 
from gastro-intestinal complaints. 


COLIC 


The term Colic is used to describe a frequent symptom comples of 
paroxysmal abdominal pain, presumably of intestine origin and of severe 
crying. It usually occurs in infants under three months of age. 


The clinical pattern is characteristic. The attack usually begins 
suddenly, the cry is loud and more or less continuous; so-called parox- 
ysms may persist for several hours. The face may be flushed, or there may 
be pallor; the abdomen is distended and tense; the legs are drawn up on 
the abdomen; although they may be momentarily extended; the feet are 
often cold; the hands are clenched. 


The attack may terminate only when the infant is completely ex- 
hausted, but often there is relief with the passage of faeces or flatus. 
Certain infants seem to be peculiarly susceptible to colic. The cause of 
recurrent attack is usually not apparent, although it may be associated 
with hunger and with swallowed air which has passed into the intestine. 
Over feeding may also cause discomfort and distension, but rarely to the 
degree seen in colic. 


Certain foods, especially those of high carbohydrate content may be 
responsible for excessive fermentation in the intesines, but only occasion- 
ally does a change in diet prevent further attacks of colic. 


Crying from intestinal discomfort is seen in infants with intestinal 
allergy but colic is not limited to thi group. Intestinal obstruction or 
peritonal infection may bring on an attack of colic. 


Abdomen 215 


Recurrent attacks are frequently seen late in the a fternoonorevening, 
suggesting the possibility of some proceeding event in the household 
routine as a possible cause, worry, fear, anger, or excitement may cause 
vomiting in an older child and such emotional disturbances may result in 
colic in an infant. 


The difficiency in progesterone in the infant has recently been 
suggested as an etiological factor; clarification of this possibility will be 
necessary. Certainly no single etiologic factor consistently accounts for 
colic, nor does any method of treatment consistently provide satisfactory 
reliefs. 


Holding the baby upright or permitting him to lie prone across the lap 
or on a hot water bottle or heating pad is occasionally helpful. Passage of 
flatus or faecal material spontaneously, or with expulsion of a suppository 
enema, sometimes affords relief. Carminatives before feeding are inef- 
fective in preventing the attacks. Sedation is occasionally indicated for 
a prolonged attack. 


COLIC 


The Colic pain is a disease which causes severe griping pain in belly. 
When Saturn or Ketu afflicts the sixth house, one suffers from this pain. 
Virgo sign, sixth house, lord of sixth house, Sun, Saturn and Ketu role over 
this disease. Affliction of these houses and planets by malefics and some 
relation of Saturn or Ketu with sixth house, Virgo sign, etc, and when a 
disease-inflictinghouseorplanet makes any relation with them, they give 
rise to disease of Colic pain. When malefic and afflicted Saturn or Ketu 
makes any relation with the sixth house or Virgo sign, they also give rise 
to similar disease. Colic is the after-effectofBiles diseases. Sun and Mars 
are significator for Biles and their strength and position in the horoscope 
are also to be examined. Affliction of Sun and Mars by Saturn and Ketu 
and their relation with the sixth house or Virgo sign, all these produce 
Collic pains. 


SOME COMBINATIONS ARE AS UNDER :- 


1. When the Ascendant lord is depressed and is in a house of enemy, 
Mars is in the 4th house and Saturn is aspected by malefic. 


2. When Sun, Moon and Mars are in sixth house. 
3. When Sun is in the Ascendant aspected by Mars. 


4, When lord of Lagna is in Taurus Navamsa, afflicted by malefics. 


216 Astrology and Diagnosis 


5. When lord of Lagna is in Virgo Navamsa, afflicted by a malefic. 

6. When lord of Lagna is in Capricorn Navamsa, afflicted by malefic. 

7. When Mars is in Lagna and sixth lord is weak and afflicted. 
ULCERATIVE COLITIS 


Ulcerative Colitis is characterised by formation of multiple minute 
ulcers in the rectum and pelvis colon, but sometimes involving the whole 
colon. Occasionally, the pathological process spreads to the terminal part 
of the ileum. 


As time goes on, the minute ulcers may coalesce to form larger ones. 
In longstanding cases, there is always considerable intramular fribrosis 
of thespecial diplococci and to streptococci that are sometimes are found 
on culture of thestools. It ils now certain that these findings are incidental. 
As arale, the disease commences between the ages of twenty and forty, 
although occasionally it is encountered during childhood. 


In well-established cases the radiological appearance is characteris- 
tic. Inthe affected portion of thecolonic shadow is diminished in calibre. 
It appears as a rigid tube. Occasionally craters of large ulcers may be 
outlined by the barium Sigmoidoscopy is indispensable in the diagnosis 
of the early cases and in mild cases when the pathological effects of the 
disease are insufficient to alter the barium shadow. The granular, 
reddened mucosa dotted with tiny ulcers is very different from the picture 
seen in amoebic dysentery, where there are large, deep ulcerations with 
the intervening mucous comparatively healthy. As ulcerative colitis 
progresses, the ulceration may become so severe that practically no 
normal mucous membrane remains. 


In mild cases, when the passage of occasional blood and mucous per 
rectum is the only symptom, sigmoidoscopy may be the mean of 
differentiating the condition from a carcinoma of the pelvic colon. 


Complications are pseudo - polyposis, carcinoma, stricture forma- 
tion, massive haemorrhage, perforation, recto-vaginal fistula, perianal 
fistula and polyarthritis. A combination of phgenobarbitone codeine and 
belladonna is useful. Injections of the ACTH have, in a proportion of 
cases, proved of great temporary benefit. The danger of continued use of 
this hormonex is haemorrhage from or perforation of, an unsuspected 
peptic ulcer, or perforation of the colon itself. 


Abdomen 217 


APPENDICITIS 


Appendicitis is the inflammation ofthe vermiform appendix. The seat 
of this disease is Virgo sign. Sixth house also governs the same. Moon is 
significator for this disease. Sun being ruler of abdomen is also ruler of 
all diseases concerning abdomen affliction of Virgo sign, sixth house, 
lord of sixth house, Sun and Moon and their relation with any disease- 
inflicting house or planet, or affliction of Virgo sign, sixth house, lord of 
sixth house and Sun with afflicted and malefic Moon or any relation of 
lord of thesixth house and Sun with afflicted and malefic Moon in anevil 
house give rise to Appendicitis. When Rahu or Mars joins or afflictsthem, 
it causes severe attack of Appendicitis. 


1. When 8th house is afflicted by Rahu or Mars and Moon is also 
afflicted. 


2. If two malefics are on both sides of the sixth house. 


3. Moon in Virgo or Scorpio sign afflicted by malefics and when sixth 
house is also afflicted. 


4. Sun inLeo sign afflicted by Mars, Rahu or Saturn, by conjunction 
or aspect, and Moon or sixth house afflicted. 


5. When a malefic together with Moonbe in Virgo signand sixth house 
is also afflicted. 


6. If sixth be Pisces sign with Jupiter there being afflicted and Moon 
also be afflicted. 


7. Saturn in Virgo or Pisces sign being in sixth house and Moon 
afflicted. 


8. If Scorpio be the sixth house with Rahu there and Moon also be 
afflicted. 


9. If sixth house be Gemini or Virgo sign, Mars be there and Moon 
also be afflicted. 


10. Malefic Moon in Virgo sign conjoined with or aspected by Rahu 
or Mars. 


DROPSY 


Dropsy is a disease in which watery fluid collects in the cavities of 
tissue of body. Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are watery signs, Moon and 
Venus are watery planets. When watery houses and planets are afflicted 


218 Astrology and Diagnosis 


by strong malefics be situated badly, be conjoined with or aspected by 
evil lords and malefics and be in some way related with disease-inflicting 
house or planet, they give rise to the disease of Dropsy. 


Below are some combinations:- 
1, Venus and Jupiter in 6th house aspected by malefic. 
2. Sun in Cancer sign aspected by malefic. 


3. Lord of Lagna in Pisces Navamsa afflicted by malefic and Moon 
or Venus afflicted. 


4. Saturn in Cancer sign and Moon Capricorn sign. 
5. Weak Moon with Saturn in 8th house. 


Lagna, lord of Lagna, Karaka Sun are also the other factors to be 
considered in this disease. When they be in watery houses, be afflicted, 
be with malefics and evil lords or when they join afflicted watery planet 
Moon or Venus, they give rise to the disease of Dropsy. 


This is a case of DROPSY. 


A er 4 Two watery signs Scorpio and Pisces 
MOON 1g 8 are afflicted by conjunction and as- 


MARS : 
pect of malefics in one case and by 
conjunction of malefic in other case. 


Venus, watery planet, is hemmed 
between malefics and is being 
aspected by Saturn. Moon, another 
watery planet, is weak, almost new 
Moon and is in house of a malefic 
and further she is afflicting Lagna. 


Lord of Lagna is in watery sign, ehich is also a sensitive sign, and is 
hemmed between malefics. Lagna is afflicted by a watery planet (malefic) 
Sun, Lagna karaka, and karaka for abdomen, is with lords of the 6a th and 
the 12th houses, is hemmed between malefics and is aspected by Rahu and 
Mars. 6th house, 6th lord ruling cavity in abdomen are afflicted. Virgo 
sign ruling the same is also afflicted by malefics. 


Thus we find all the disease-inflicting factor ruling DROPSY are 
influenced by watery signs and planets. 


Abdomen 219 


This is a case of CHOLERA. 


1. The Moon, karaka, for vomiting 


and Diarrhoea, is afflicted by 6th 
lord Saturn and also by Rahu. 
2.Mercury, karaka, for Cholera, and 
Venus, karaka for Digestion, are 
as conjoined with malefics and are 
Jax 


afflicted by aspect of malefic Mar 
from 6th house. 

3. Sixth house and lord of 6th house are afflicted. Virgo sign is also 

hemmed between malefics. 


4. Lagna and lord of Lagna are afflicted by aspect of malefics Mars 
from sixth house. 


5. Sixth house from Sun and Moon is abo afflicted. Lord of these 
houses is also afflicted. 


6. Moon, Mercury and Venus are connected with sixth house and 
lord of sixth house, they are also afflicted by lord of 6th house and 
by planets from sixth house. 


This is a case of CHOLERA. The 
native suffered from the disease in 
his Moon dasha. 


x 1. Saturn is in Virgo sign aspected by 


malefics. 


2. Sixth house is afflicted by Saturn 
and sixth lord is weak and af 
flicted. Further sixth house is 
aspected by the Moon. 


3.The Moon is ina dusthana afflicted by by aspect of Mars and Rahu, 
and is aspecting the sixth house. 


4. The Sun, karaka, is lord of the eighth house and is with Mercury, 
6th lord and karaka for Cholera, and is aspected by malefic Saturn. 


5. Venus, karaka, for digestion is conjoined with 6th lord and the 8th 
lord Mercury and Sun and is aspected by Saturn from Virgo sign. 


220 Astrology and Diagnosis 


6. The Sun, Mercury, Venus, lord of 6th house all ruling the disease 
CHOLERA are in watery sign. 


7. Sixth house from Sun and Moon and their lords are afflicted. 


Thus we find all the houses and planets ruling Cholera are afflicted 
in this horoscope. 


This is a case of BILLIOUS disease 
of COLIC PAIN. 


1. Merewy, lord of Lagna, in 6th 
house with 6th lord suggests 
Billious complaints. 


2. Sun is with malefic Mars, Mercury 
and Moon and is aspected by Sat- 
urn and Rahu which suggests of 
excessive Bile Further he is in 6th 
house with 6th lord and Lord of 
Lagna and is aspected by 8th lord. 


3. Sun, Moon and Mars in the 6th house suggest COLIC PAIN. 


4. Saturn is in Virgo sign. 


5. Malefics are in the 6th house aspected by malefics and also by 8th 
lord Saturn and also by Rahu. 


6. Lord of 6th is afflicted by by conjunction and aspects of malefics. 


7. Aries sign, 6th house from both Sunand Moonis hemmed between 
malefics and is aspected by Rahu, froma sensitive house. 


8. Mars, 6th lord from the Sun, and Moon is afflicted. 


9. Sun and Mars, karakas for Biles are in 6th house afflicted by 
conjunction and aspects of malefics. 


10. Saturn, a karaka for COLIC, is in 12th house from Lagna, afflicted 
by aspect of malefics Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury. 


Thus many factors are present in the chart to give rise to Billious 
disease and COLIC PAIN. 


Abdomen 221 


This is acase of worst type of pain in 

1. Ketu is in 6th house of Lagna, Sun 
and Moon. 

2. Satu is in 5th house in mutual 
aspect with Mars and is aspected 
by 6th lord. 

yo~ 3. Leo sign is conjoined with Mars 


and is aspected by Saturn. 


4. Sun, karaka, is with malefic Moon 
and is also hemmed between malefics Mars and Rahu. Rahu is also 
afflicting Sun by his aspect. 

/ 


5. Jupiter lord of 6th house is aspected by malefic Mars. 
6. Mercury is in dusthana with Rahu. 


This is a case of Chronic Dyspesia. 
1.6th house is afflicted by malefic 
Saturn and also by 8th lord. 


2. Sun, karaka, for Bowels, is in 
watery sign and is also afflicted by 
Mercury, Mars and Rahu. 


3. Venus, karaka, forDyspepsia, is in 
6th house conjoined with malefic 
Saturn. Mercury another, karaka, 
is also afflicted. 


4. Sixth house from Sun and Moon and their lords are afflicted. 


Thus many factors are present to give rise to Dyspsia. Virgo sign is 
not afflicted in this chart. 


222 Astrology and Diagnosis 


This is a case of DYSENTERY. 
1. 6thhouse is afflicted by conjunc- 


8 MOON 
tion of Saturn and by aspects of 
Rahu and Mars. 
25th house is hemmed between 
malefics. 
3. Lords of 5th and 6th houses are 
afflicted by malefics. 


4. Leo sign is conjoined with Ketu and is aspected by Saturn and 
Rahu. Virgo-sign is aspected by malefic Mars. 


5. 5th and 6th houses from Moon and their lords are afflicted. 5th 
and 6th houses from Sun are also afflicted. 


6. Sun, a karaka planet, is with 6th lord Mercury. Another Karaka 
Venus is with malefic Mars and is aspected by Saturn and Rahu. 
Further Venus is in Watery sign. 


Thus most of thehouses and planets ruling Dysentery are afflicted and 
are capable of producing the disease DYSENTERY. 


SoSC 
C1 RX 
eNOS) WON ZS 


In this horoscope the Moon is placed in Virgo subject to powerful 
Papa-Kartari Yoga and receiving the aspect of Mars-lord of second from 
Lagna and the third and 8th from Moon. Therefore, the lability to attack 
by this is plain and unmistakable. Ketu is inthe sixth, ruling the abdomen. 


Abdomen 223 


Even the lagna is subject to strongaffliction. Saturn is inthe 8th house. 
The native underwent an emergency operation for Appendicitis about 
August 1926 which terminated fatally. 


Rahu's situation is the sixth from the Moon is equally indicative 
predisposion of Appendicitis. The operation took place and Death 
occured inthe Major period of Rahu and sub-period of Venus. Rahu is to 
give results of Saturn and Saturn is inthe house of Ma raka from the Moon. 
Venus is in conjunction with Mars. Added to all these, Mars was transiting 
in Cancer and Saturn in Libra. The elarata influence coupled with the 
powerful mutual aspects between transiting Mars and Saturn all contrib- 
uted to the acceleration of Death. 


The person suffered from Appendi- 
citis and and underwent an opera- 
tion. 


1. 6th house is afflicted by malefic 


and also by lord of the 8th house 

2. Virgo sign is afflicted and Karaka 
Moon is afflicted and is also 
aspected by 6th lord. 

3. Sun another karaka, is insensitive 
sign being afflicted. Further he is in the 6th house with lords of 8th 
and 12th houses. 

4. Rahu is in 8th house, while Moon is afflicted. . 


5. Saturn is in Pisces sign while 6th house is also afflicted. 


6. Lord of Lagna is in the 6th house, while Moon is in 12th house, 
and they are aspecting each other. 


CHAPTER 14 


IMPURE BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES 


CARE FOR DRY SKIN 


In many ways a dry skin presents more problems to its owner than a 
greasy one. 


Normal washing with soap and water will improve the appearance of 
the latter, even if only temporarily. And reasonable exposure to wind and 
sun are not so disastrous. 


True a greasy skin is often associated with acne and dandruff, but it 
tends to improve with age. The same cannot be said of a dry skin. 


The supplety ofthe skin does not depend only on its grease contents. 
Probably the ability of theouter layer of theskin to retain moisture is the 
most important barrier between its water-laden layers and the atmo- 
sphere . 


No matter what your skin type, chapping of the hands and cracking 
of the tips and/or fingers will occur when the temperature drops or the 
wind or sun are particularly fierce. Under these conditions water is more 
readily lost fromthe skin. Should the skinbe abnormal in any way or have 
been extensively degreased for some reason, its ability to retain moisture 
will be impaired. Every housewife is aware of the result on her damp 
hands on hanging out the washing on a cold windy day. 


UNCERTAIN 


Dry skin is frequently just the natural result of excessive water loss. 
But there are various skin disorders which are characterised by excessive 
dryness for other reasons. It is of some practical importance to diagnose 
these accurately, for what is good for one condition may not be for 
another. Some are inherited and while they cannot be cured much can be 
done to make life and the skin more nearly normal. 


Ichthyosis is so called because the skin in severe cases is obviously 
scaly. This gives it a superficial resemblance to fish or alligator skin. The 
basic abnormality here is a thickening ofthe homy layer ofthe skin. 


Why this should occur is uncertain, but may have something to do with 
the body's ability to manufacture cholesterol, a chemical that is involved 
in the formation ofkeratin the stuff that goes into the homy layer. 


We know that giving Vitamin A occasionally helps in this condition 
in some unspecified way - and this vitamin is very much bound up with 
fat syntheses by the body. Exactly how the dry skingets inichthysis is very 


Blood and Skin Disease 225 


variable. There may be no more that what would pass for "normal" 
dryness plus some slight roughness on the outer surfaces of the arms and 
legs. On the other hand much of the body may appear to be plated. In fact 
the plates are large scales of skin which have become pigmented and 
blackened with dust and dirt. Ifthe edges are turned up, too, the surface 
will look cracked. 


COMPLEX 


Another skin disorder in which the skin seems abnormally dry is 
eczema. This is in part an allergic condition, though it can be difficult to 
decide to what exactly the individual is sensitive. Initially the surface of 
the skin is red and weeping but later it is dry, thickened scaly. 


The eczematous skin can be substantially helped by eliminating 
contact with things that irritate it. Many preparations are available to 
soothe what is basically not a dry skin, but an inflamed one. What exactly 
to use and how is a complex matter requiring individual medical advice. 


In caring for a dry skin anything that increases the dryness must, of 
course, be avoided and some way should be found to replace the moisture 
that has been lost. 


Nobody has managed to discover a drug or food staff which, if taken 
consistently will improve the state of skin. Vitamin A in large doses 
sometimes works wonders in ichthyosis, but as this vitamin can be toxic 
if taken indiscriminately it should only be used under medical supervi- 
sion. 


Ordinary soap and water has a marked de-greasing action, so exces- 
sive washing with these ingredients has to be avoided. Amild cleansing 
lotion will usually suffice to keep the face clean and it is sometimes 
advisable to stick to this alone, especially when the weather is cold. 


Incidentally most bath and spa salts also have a decreasing effectand 
should not be used if you have a tendency to dry skin. 


SUBSTITUTES 


Awarm skin will soak up more grease or moisture than a cold one. It 

is those who suffer from ichthyosis who benefit most from a soak in 
a warm bath followed by robbing in preparations such a yellow soft 
paraffm or oily cream. 

A similar routine is adopted by most women when they resort to 
beauty preparations to repair the ravages of time and weather on then- 
faces. Soap substitutes may have to be used by those suffering from some 


226 
Astrology and Diagnosis 


skin conditions and the doctor will usually suggest or prescribe the 
appropriate preparation. 


Nothing can totally prevent a dry skin if that is how you were bom. 
It can be guarded from further deterioration by avoiding those things 
which de-grese or a sensitise it. we cannot do much about bad whether but 
the skin can be appropriately protected from it. Cosmetic aids are not 
necessarily the answer to the state of your skin. Sometimes medical 
advice can be of great use. 


PIGMENTATION 


The colour of theskin depends on the amount of thepigment melanin 
it contains on the thickness of the epidermis and on the amount and 
oxygen content of theblood flowing through the superficial vessels ofthe 
dermis. The skin responds to light, heat, friction and X-ray irradiation by 
increased pigmentation. Exposure to tar or creosote causes pigmentation; 
of theexposed parts. Certain plant juices have a photosensitising action. 
Certain dermatoses such as lichen planus, litchen simplex, dermatitis, 
herpetiformis exfoliative dermatitis of cause pigmentation. Toxic pig- 
mentation occurs from certain drugs such as arsenic, lead, bismuth, gold.,; 
silver and substances introduced im tattooing. 


Endocrine metabolic and nutritional disorders also cause pigmenta- 
tion. Diffuse pigmentation may occur in liver disorders. Addison's 
disease and Gaucher's disease cause skin discolouration. 


In pellagra due to Vitamin B-complex deficiency, pigmentation 
occurs on the on the parts exposed to sunlight. In pregnancy there is 
increased pigmentation. 


Congenital forms include hairy moles, lentigines and frecles. In 
neurofibromatosis there are pigmented patches on the skin and may be the 
only sign for years. in Aconthosis nigricans the pigmentation is particu- 
larly inthe flexures. A correct diagnosis is to be made before commencing 
treatment in hyperpigmentation. 


The progressive pigmentation of legs affecting men is usually de- 
scribed as Schamberg's disease. They may appear spontaneously at 
several spots or at a particular site and then spread. There may be itching, 
Diabetes, vericose veins and Hypertension can cause it. Sometimes there 
will be no cause. Local application of calamine lotion and antihistamine 
drugs may help. 


LEUCODERMA 


This is a disease of blood and Skin. Moon and Saturn are primarily 
responsible forthis disease. Mercury rules all skin diseases. Root cause 


Blood and Skin Diseases 227 


of this disease is bowls and hence position and strength of sixth house, 
lord of sixth house Sun and Jupiter are bad for this disease. Venus works 
for lustre of the body. When Venus is afflicted, fading away of lustre of 
the body is likely and hence position and strength of Venus is also to be 
considered. 


Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces signs together with 4th, 8th and 12th houses 
role the blood and these houses have also some relation with the disease 
Leucoderma. When Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces signs 4th, 8th and 12th 
houses and their lords, sixth house, Virgo signSun, Jupiter, Venus ete and 
also Moon, Mercury and Saturn be afflicted, weak, badly placed, 
conjomed with evil lords and be also related with disease inflicting planet 
and house, they produce the same disease. When the houses and planets 
ruling Leukoderma be afflicted by malefic Saturn and be related with 
disease inflicting planet or house, they produce similar disease. 


A few combinations for the same are as under: 


1. Moon in Lagna, Sun in 7th house and Mars and Saturn either in 
2nd or 12th house 


2. Lord of lagna and Mercury with Moon, Rahu or Ketu ina house. 
3. Lord of Lagna and Mars with Rahu or Ketu in one house. 


4. Lord of Lagna in the 8th house conjoined with or aspected by 
malefic. 


Mars, Saturn and Moon in Aries or Taurus sign. 
Moon and Rahu in Lagna and Lord of lagna not in Lagna. 


Moon in 4th house from Atmakaraka aspected by Venus. 


eo NM 


Malefic in Lagna other than lord of Lagna with Mars. 
LEUCODERMA - PIGMENTATION 


Leucos means white and derma means skin. White patches on the skin 
have been looked down in our country as a serious physical defect since 
remote times, though modem physicians look at it only as a loss of 
pigment of the skin and do not consider it as a disease. 


Leucoderma seems to be a hereditary disease. It is not contageous. 
The person effected undergoes no suffering but such a person is consid- 
ered by the society as if he were a health hazard. It is this social disfavour 
that counts very much and felt greatly by the person affected.The Sanskrit 
work for Leprosy is KUSHTA and this disease is wrongly called as 


228 Astrology and Diagnosis 


“SHWETA KUSHTA" or white leprosy while in reality it has 
nothing to do with Leprosy. Perhaps it may be mainly due to this that 
affected persons have to bear the social disfavour. 


Racial differences in degree of pigmentation depend on varying 
physiological activities of the melanoblast cells which are present in all 
races in approximately the same concentration. In albinism there is a 
congenital lack of the enzymo tyrosinase, a copper protein complex in 
which the copper plays an essential role. 


Vitiligo is the commonest form of depigmentation. There is a 
mascular, discoid and figrate depigmentation of the hands, face or other 
regions. On the scalp the hair may be white inthe affected areas. The cause 
is unknown. The melanoblasts inthe pale areas are inactive. They and the 
melanophores are deficient in pigment, whereas those in the adjoining 
area are in excess. 


This form of primary leucoderma should be differentiated from 
secondary leucodermas due to eczema, Psoriasis, Lupus erythematosu, 
Syphilis, Leprosy scleroderma or Pytiriasis versicolor. The Pale areas of 
bitiligo may be so extensive that there is more pale skin than dark. In 
Ayurveda there is a mention of a number of medicines for the cure of this 
disease. But the medicine that cures one may not be useful to another. 
There is no patent medicine by which it can be cured. Sometimes it 
vanishes without reason. It is also cured by divine remedies such as 
regular reading of "Bhavani Stotra, Shri Gyry Charitra" or other sacred 
scriptures or by other forma of devotion and penance. In Guro-Charitra, 
there is mention of such a cure in some cases. 


Meladine is used in treatment and is said to bring about repigmenta tion. 
It is the refined product of the plany ammi majus linn, It is taken interna Il y 
and applied on the surface and the skin is also being exposed to ultra violet 
rays. Only those cases that have been melanoblasts in their hair papillae 
respond to treatment as the melanoblasts respond to stimuli. 


For a healthy person the Ascendant, the Sun and the Moon must be 
without any affliction as Ascendant represents the body, the Sunindicates 
. vitality and the Moon, the liquid elements in the body, If any of the above 
is seriously afflicted then it creates disorder in the working of thephysical 
mechanism. Appearance of white spots on the body, their strange growth 
of diminishing or vanishing altogether or reappearance without any 
apparent cause; this strange nature of the disease has reference to the 
whimsical planet Herschel. Neptune disables limbs and is responsible for 
incurable diseases. The Sunand the Moon greatly lose their power when 
afflicted by Saturn and the Moon by Mars. Inall these cases the Ascendant 


Blood and Skin Diseases 229 


or its lord is afflicted by Neptune, the Sun by Herschel or Saturn and 
the Moon by Saturn or Mars. 


ECZEMA IN CHILDREN 


The onset of eczema in early infancy is commonly associated with the 
introduction of new foods to the diet. It is not common in breastfed infants. 
It may start when cow's milk is introduced in the diet. Sensivity to the 
protein in egg and milk and sensitivity to dust, wool and other allergens 


such as talc in cosmetics can also cause it. Sweating tends to worsen the 
eczema. 


The most common complication of eczema is infection, suppruation 
of lymph, complication. Under-nutrition is another complication. 


A child with eczema should not be vaccinated against Small-pox 
unless protected with gamma globulin but should be immunised against 
poliomyelitis and with triple antigen in the usual manner. 


In treatment, attention should be focussed on avoidance of probable 
offending allergens such an egg and chocolate for example. The infant 
with the eczema should be breast-fed as long as possible. Some infants 
seem to benefit from feeding of unsaturated fatty acids, while others do 
not. Exposure to house dust and use of wool should be avoided. Clothing 
of cotton preferably undyed is to be used. Some children benefit by 
exposure to Sun and Sea-baths. Careful use of ultraviolet rays may benefit 
older children. Instead of soap it is advisable to use gram-flour or herbal 
preparations. 


In severe infections antibiotics should be given systemically. The 
local use of anti histaminics is contra-indicated. Plain calamine lotion 
may be used. Tropical therapy with a carticosteroid is useful. Systemic 
therapy is reserved only for those cases which are very severe and in cases 
where eczema exists in the most critical and troublesome situations. Skin 
testing desensitisation may be helpful. 


Eczema usually undergoes a spontaneous and lasting remission 
occurs. Few children may carry a continuing skin reaction into adult life 
especially on the elbows and knees. Cataracts are a very rare complicaion. 

ECZEMA 


Numular eczema is a common skin reaction pattern of hypersensitiv- 
ity characterised by populovesicular patches. It often is an expression of 


230 

Astrology and Diagnosis 
atopic activity but also occurs without family history of major 
hypersensivity and without skin test evidence of atopic reactivity. In 
primary lesions are popilovesicles which later ooze and become crusted. 
The eruption often waxes and wanes. It tends to remain localised but may 
be generalised. 


In treatment, allergic inhalants, ingestants and contact agents need to 
be regarded as etiologic possibilities and eliminated when indicated. The 
most effective local treatment is the application of hydrocortisone cream 
alone or in combination with iodochlorhydroxy-quinoline.Antihistaminics 
are of doubtful value. 


ITCHES AND SKIN DISEASES 


Saturn roles ovetSkin. Moon roles the diseases of theSkin. Affliction 
of these planets, affliction of Saturn or Moon by malefic, Sun and 
Mercury situation of all these planets in evil houses, conjunction with evil 
lords and malefics, and a relation of them with Virgo sign, sixth house, 
lord of sixth house or with disease inflicting house or planet, all these give 
rise to itches and skin diseases. Mars also gives rise to skin diseases and 
his affliction over the planets ruling skin is not desirable. When Mars is 
afflicted he also produces skin diseases. 


Few combinations for the same are :- 
I. Mercury in 2nd house aspected by Moon causes skin disease. 
2. Sun, Mars, and Moon in sixth house produce red spots skin. 


3. A powerful Saturn in third house aspected by or conjoined with 
Mars cause itches and skin diseases. 


4, Moon and Mars in 2nd house cause skin diseases with aspect by 
Saturn, 


5. Saturn in Lagna aspected by Mars causes skin diseases. 
6. Moon in water sign in 2nd house produces skin diseases. 
7. Saturn and Sun in Lagna give rise to skin diseases. 


8. Afflicted At ma karaka in Gemini, Virgo or Capricorn Navamsa 
cause skin diseases. 


9. Malefic Mars in 6th house produce heat generating disease. 


10. Rahu in 8th house conjoined with or aspected by malefic causes 
similar diseases. 


Blood and Skin Diseases 231 


11. Moon in sixth house aspected by malefic causes skin diseases 
from currupt state of blood. 


12. Moon in Virgo hemmed in between malefics causes diseases 
fron¥ Currupt state of blood. 


URTICARIA 


Repeated attacks of rashes all over the body causing swelling and 
redness are known as urticarial rashes. Urticaria may be the result of 
insect stings, heat, scabies, food allergies, intestinal parasites and rarely 
emotional causes. A transient redness and swelling of the skin causing 
weals occur in urticaria. It may arise from external or internal causes. 
External causes include insect bites, stings contact with irritants and even 
infectation with scabies. Heat may be a factor as also exertion or 
excitement (cholinergic urticaria). 


Urticaria from cold or light is rare. Among internal causes are certain 
foods and drags foci of infection, intestinal parasites, cutaneous reticuloses 
and emotional causes such as resentment. 


In case recurrent or chronic urticaria is present, usually parasitic 
infection or scabies is the cause. 


Parasitic infection has to be treated. Roundworm quite commonly 
gives rise to this type of reaction. 


Treatment consists of removal or avoidance of the cause, and 
providing symptomatic relief by means of antihistaminics drugs. The 
choice and dose varies with individuals. In the psychogenic type the 
patient should try understand the symptom in relation to his mental 
attitude. Barbiturates bromide and dextro-amphetamine are sometimes 
useful. 


DANDRUFF 


Mild form or infective or seborrhids dermatitis affecting the scalp, 
commonly known as dandruff results in grey, dry scalings. In advanced 
stages these scalings become coarser and greasy. Further red patches, 
accompanied by discharges, may be seen on the skin. The eyebrows, 
lashes beard and axillae are usually involved. There may be widespread 
scalings on the scalp and the hair may tend to fall. Certain drugs having 
irritating effect can also cause this condition. The cause of the baldness 
is not known. But emotional factors seem to be responsible in at least half 
of thecases. Alopasia Areata is baldness on a localised area of the scalp 
or the beard. After the first patch, sometimes hair start growing but such 


232 

Astrology and Diagnosis 
growth becomes increasingly thin with each recurrence. Treatment is 
supportive. 


A stimulating liniment may be robbed in daily. Exposition to ultravio- 
let irradiation once a week may also help. Massage may do more harm 
than good. Emotional factors if present should be removed. Harmful 
irritants and drugs should be withheld. The scalp should be treated with 
shampoo of one percent cetrimide solution. In severe cases a lotion of 
salicylic acid and perchloride of Mercury should be gently robbed into 
scalp daily. Vitamins B-complex and liver extract injections are helpful. 


The diet should be low in carbohydrates and fats and sufficient in 
protein and vitamins. Alcohol, chocolates and fried and spiced foods 
should be taken in strict moderation. 


MULTIPLE MYLOMA 


Multiple Myloma is a malignant tumour of bone marrow which 
affects the skeleton. The bones unusually affected are the spine, ribs, 
sterrnum, skull, and humerus. The initial symptom is pain in the back, 
abdomen and joints. This may result in deformity of the spine and 
decreases in height. Bone structures may develop with minor injuries or 
even when there is no injury. Loss of weight, fever and anaemia are 
common. 


Examination of urine and X-ray of bones will help diagnose the 
disease. This disease usually occurs after the age of 50. 


Complete rest in the bed and splinting of affected joints are useful. 
Deep irradiation also helps. Operations are done when the spinal cord is 
compressed by the tumour. 


WART 


A wart is a localised over-growth of the skin layer caused by a virus. 
The common wart is seenon the knees and the hands. There may be more 
than one. Also a single wart may grow to a larger size. Application of 
phenol or copper sulphate may help in some cases. Cauterisation after 
curetting is alone done. 


Wart on the face may cause disfigurement. In such cases the base of 
the wart has to be removed by the application of phenol. Cauterisation 
may also be done. 


CHICKEN-POX 


Chicken-pox is an infective disease caused by a virus. One attack 


Blood and Skin Diseases 233 


generally offers complete protection. A second attack is very rare. The 
infection spreads by droplet or from clothing. The complications are 
usually mild, like Bronchitis and laryngitis. 


This is a case of Skin disease. 


1. Moon is m a watery sign afflicted 


by malefics. Sun is also afflicted 
by malefics. 
4 2. Mercury is in 6th house conjoi- 
pe ned with Rahu and is hemmed 
between malefics. 
Pion 3. Mars is with malefics and is also 


with 6th lord. Further Mars is de- 
bilitated. 


4. Satumis ina sensitive sign and is also aspected by Rahu. 
5. Lagna is afflicted. Lord of Lagna is in dusthana. 


6. All the watery signs and 4th, 8th and 12th houses ruling blood 
are afflicted. 


There are reasons to produce skin disease and currupt blood in this 


This is a case of Leucoderma. 


Lord of Lagna and Mercury are with 
Moon. Moon, Mercury, Mars and 
Venus are hemmed between malefics 
and are also afflicted by conjunction 
of malefics. Saturn is in dusthana. 


6th house, 6th lord, Virgo sign, Sun 
are afflicted. 


Lord of Lagna, Venus and Lagna 
karaka Sun are afflicted. 


All the houses and signs ruling blood are afflicted. 
All houses and planets ruling Leucoderma are afflicted in this chart. 


234 Astrology and Diagnosis 


LEPROSY 


Leprosy affects the skin and lymph nodes, the nasal and buccal 
mucous membrane, the eyes, larynx and also the internal organs such as 
liver, lungs and testicles. The nerves swell and undergo degeneration, 
causing paralysis, muscular atrophy and deformity. 


The nasal mucous scrappings obtained from nasal ulcers and skin 
lesions, and a small piece of skin from the lobe of the ear are examined 
for lepra bacilli in the diagnosis of leprosy. 


Leprosy today is treated with sulphone derivatives such as Promin, 
Diasone promizole and sulphetrone. Thiosemicrabazone is also used. 
Durmg treatment the patient should be carefully watched for untold 
reactions as treatment is prolonged for months and years and some 
authorities believe it should go on at intervals of life. 


The subject of diagnosis of Leprosy has been dealt with by the 
Western and Eastern astrologers. In the West they hold, that Capricorn 
is the sign in which afflictionof planets indicate Leprosy. By polarity the 
signs in square and opposition to it may also influence. 


Varana Mihira declares : " If at the time of birth of a person, the Moon 
occupies the 5th Navamsa of Sagittarius or the Navamsa of Pisces, 
Cancer, Capricorn or Aries and be in conjunction with or aspected by 
Saturn or Mars, such person will be afflicted by Leprosy". If 5th or 9th 
house from the ascendant be Scorpio, Cancer, Taurus or Capricorn and 
be either occupied or aspected by Saturn and Mars, the person will be 
afflicted with Leprosy. The ancient authors of India have given impor- 
tance to the position of the Moon and affliction to her by Saturn and Mars. 
The Western astrologers are of the opinion that the Moon governs the 
mucous membrane and the lymphatic system, Saturn rules skin and 
subcutaneous tissues and Mars over the motor nerves. The view of 
modern scientists is that the bacilli spread up from the primary focus 
through the lymphatics and cause lesions of the skin and mucous 
membrane or the nerves. 


Blood and Skin Diseases 238 


ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS OF LEPROSY 


Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by bacillus laprae, 
characterised by presence of tubercular nodula in the skin and mucous 
membranes or by changes in the nerve. 


Rahu and Saturn are the major planets responsible for this disease. 
Mars, ruler of blood, Moon the causer of all blood diseases and Mercury, 
producer of all skin diseases and ulcers, all work with Rahu and Saturn 
to give rise to the disease of Leprosy. When Lagna, lord of Lagna, Lagna- 
Karaka Sun and Aries sign, first house of zodiac are weak, afflicted, badly 
placed, they add to this disease. When Lagna, Sun, Mars, Moon, Mercury, 
ete. are afflicted by malefics, are weak or are with lords of evil houses, 
or badly placed and are also related to with sixth house, Virgo sign or with 
any disease inflicting house or planet or when Lagna Moon, Mars be 
afflicted by malefic Mercury, Saturn and Rahu or by strong malefics and 
be related with disease inflicting house or planet, they give rise to the 
disease of LEPROSY. 


Few combinations are as under :- 


1. Mars and Mercury being lord of Lagna and Moon conjoined with 
Rahu or Ketu. 


2. Moon and Rahu in Lagna with Mars or Saturn and not conjoined 
with lord of Lagna. 


3. Moon and Rahu in the 4th house from Atmakaraka conjoined wath 
or aspected by malefics. 


4. Moon in the 4th bouse from Atmakaraka conjoined or aspected by 
Mars and malefics. 


5. Malefic in Lagna, not being lord of Lagna with Sun or Saturn or 
being aspected by Sun or Saturn and afflicted. 


6. Moon and Saturn in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces Navamsa(watery 
navamsa) aspected by or conjoined with malefics and afflicted and 
without any benefic aspect or conjunction. 


7. If Moon be in Sagittarius sign, Leo Navamsa, is conjoined with or 
aspected by Mars or Saturn and be under malefic influence. 


8. If Moon be in Cancer, Capricorn or Pisces Navamsa be conjoined 
with or aspected by Mars or Saturn and be under malefic influence. 


236 Astrology and Diagnosis 


9. If Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio or Capricom signs be fifth house and 
Mars or Saturn conjoins or aspects them and the 5th house be also 
tinder malefic influence. 


10. Moon in Lagna, Sun in the 7th house, Saturn and Mars in second 
or twelfth house also Lagna and Sun afflicted. 


11.Saturn and Mars in the 3th house aspected by malefic. 

12. Mercury in Aries sign, Moon in 10th house and Mars with Saturn. 
13. Afflicted Saturn, Mars, Moon and Venus in watery signs. 

14. Lagna afflicted, and Sun,Mars and Saturn in one house. 

15. Mercury, Moon and lord of Lagna, all with Rahu and Ketu. 

16. Mars and Saturn in Lagna with lord of 6th house. 

17. Mars and Sun in Lagna with lord of 6th house. 


18. Lagna conjoined with Mars and afflicted and also Saturn in Lagna, 
fourth or twelfth house. 


19. Lord of Lagna in 8th house aspected by malefic or conjoined with 
malefic and also Lagna aspected by or conjoined with malefics. 


20. Lord of Lagna in fourth or twelfth house with Mars and Mercury 
and also Jupiter, Moon and Saturn in sixth house. 


21. Saturn and Mercury with lord of Lagna and also Rahu and in sixth 
house. 


NO, NZ This is a case of Leprosy. 
1. Lagna, Moon and Sun are afflicted 


by aspects of Satum and Rahu. 
Moon is too weak. 

2. Malefic Moon is in Lagna with 
Sun and aspected by Saturn. 


3. Moon is in the 5th navamsa of 
aN Sagittarius (Leo Navamsa) is 
aspected by malefic Satum and is 


ee 


Blood and Skin Diseases 237 


under strong malefic influence. 
4. Lord of Lagna is in a watery sign hemmed between malefics. 


5. Mercury, Karaka for skin diseases, is with 6th lord with aspect of 
Mars. 


6. Cancer a watery sign, is afflicted by aspect of Saturn and also by 
aspect of 6th lord Venus. 8th and 12th houses ruling blood are also 
afflicted, 8th being aspected by malefics and 12th being hemmed 
between malefics. 


7. Planets are under Kala-sarpa yoga. 
8. Aries, first house of natural zodiac, is heavily afflicted. 
9. Mars, ruler of blood, is afflicted by Saturn. 


Thus we findall the houses and planets ruling the disease LEPROSY 
are afflicted and are capable of producing the disease. 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


Male bom 15.1910. In this horoscope, Moon is in the Navamsa of 
Pisces and has close aspects of Satur and Mars. The patient was 
examined in 1955. He has the “Neuro-anasthestic” type of disease. It is 
beingn and may be self-healing. This option is supported by the beneficial 
close aspect of the great benefic Jupiter to Moon. The patient is 
experiencing only paraesthesia of thelower extremity from a few months. 
The rest of the history is all vague. 


238 Astrology and Diagnosis 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


Born on 19.10.1937. In this chart, Moon is in the ascendant in Pisces 
in close aspect to Mars. Saturn is in the same sign. In addition the Moon 
is in Navamsa of Pisces but to the relief has the aspect of benefic Mercury 
in his exaltation. Saturn too has the aspect of Venus though in her 
debilitated sign. It is of “Neuro-maculan” type amenable to treatment 
necessarily tedious. 


SMALL-POX AND CHICKEN-POX 


Small-pox is an acute infectious disease characterised by a cutaneous 
eruption which passes through the stages of papule, vesiclepustula and 
crust. Chicken-pox is also an acute infectious disease characterised by an 
eruption of vesicles on the skin which appears in successive crops. 


Mars and Mercury are the planets ruling over these diseases. When 
these planets are badly placed or afflicted they are liable to produce these 
diseases. When they are afflicted and also related with sixth house or lord 
of sixth house, Virgo sign or any disease-inflicting house or planet, they 
give rise to small pox or chicken pox. In case of milder affliction or 
situation in evil house, or conjunction with evil lords, they produce 
chicken-pox. Venus rales lustre of body and face. Hence the strength and 
position of Venus is also to be judged. When Venus joins the combina- 
tions for these diseases, she puts permanent marks in the body or face. 
Rahn is karaka for epidemics; when the Rahu joins the combination for 
diseases or to be in any way related, one is liable to be attacked from these 


Blood and Skin Diseases 239 


diseases in result of an epidemic. The lord, 8th house or a disease- 
inflicting planet when joins the combination, it may effect Death. 


A few combinations for the same are as follows: 


1. Rahu in 8th house aspected by or conjoined with malefic. 
2. Mars in lagna aspected by Saturn and Sun. 

3. Lords of Lagna and sixth house with Mars. 

4. Sun in Ist, 2nd, 7th or 8th house aspected by malefic. 
5.Mars in Ist, 2nd, 7th or 8th house aspected by malefic. 
6. 1f malefic Rahu be aspected by malefic. 


This is a case of CHICKEN- POX 
9 ey e 
RAHU 1. Mars is in Dusthana, is in Virgo 
MER sign and is aspected by Satum. 
2. Mercury is conjoined with Rahu. 


3. Sixth lord Jupiter is aspecting Mars. 


4. Sun, Lagna karaka, is aspected by 
Saturn and Rahu. 


Mars and Mercury are afflicted but the affliction is milder. As Saturn 
is yoga-karaka for Libra Ascendant its affliction is not very much 
harmful. Mercury is benefic for this lagna and is in house of natural 
benefic. Further Venus and 2nd house are not afflictedthough the 2nd lord 
is slightly afflicted. 


This is a case of SMALL-POX. 


1. Mars and Mercury are in the 8th 


house afflicted by Saturn and Rahu. 
Further Mercury is lord of Lagna 
and is conjoined with lord of sixth 
house and is in 8th house aspected 
by 8th lord. 


2. Sun, Lagna karaka, is afflicted by 
Rahn. 


240 Astrology and Diagnosis 
3. Malefic Ketu is in Lagna. 
4. Venus is in 6th house and 2nd house is also afflicted. 
5. First and sixth lords are with Mars (here 6th lord is Mars himself) 
In this chart we find both Mercury and Mars are badly afflicted and 
are also in dusthana. Rahu is afflicting them by its malefic aspect, and 


which suggests the disease from epidemic. Venus is also in dusthana, 2nd 
house, ruler of face, is heavily afflicted suggesting deep marks on the face. 


CHAPTER 15 


BLOOD CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 
LEUKAEMIA (BLOOD CANCER) 


Twenty years ago a personsnfferingfromacuteLEUKAEMIA could 
expect to live for two or three months. Now, the average life span for its 
victims has been extended to between three and five years. In a few cases, 
it has even been longer. Credit for this progress is due largely to the 
LEUKAEMIA Task Force, a unit of theU.S. National Cancer Institute 
in Bethesda, Maryland. 


Since the inception of the Force in 1962, its members have been 
experimenting with ways of deterring the massive haemorrhaging and 
rapidly spreading infection that have most often been the cause of death 
for LEUKAEMIA victims. 


Acute Leukaemia, one of the deadliest forms of Cancer, attacks the 
body's blood producing lymph glands and bone narrow and leaves it 
highly susceptible to infection. 


The latest innovation is a "life island" plastic envelope that com- 
pletely covers the patient. No one, including his physician and nurses, 
comes in direct contact with the patient. 


This idea has been successful in checking the spread of infections says 
Dr. Gordon Zubrod, Chairman of the TSK force and Science Director of 
the Institute of Cancer Chemotherapy Centre, "but it is not too realistic. 
It requires too many attendants to care for each patient, and we just don't 
have that much help". A more workable idea, conceived by clinicians at 
the Centre is to “laminar flow" air system, in which a constant stream of 
air is blown in from behind the patient, keeping him downward of other 
people. "This system cuts back the spread of infectionconsiderably" says 
Dr. Zubrod. "And doesn't tie up as many people with each patient. It is 
already in use in several other hospitals. With nearly [000 cases of 
Leukaemia to treat annually, the cancer institute must spread its physi- 
cians, nurses and attendants around. Complete individual attention which 
would be ideal is not possible". 


242 Astrology and Diagnosis 


This has not hampered the progress of the Task Force, however, which 
operates at the Institute and at 32 other hospitals in the U.S., Canada and 
Europe. 


Initially members of the Force checked carefully into data on the 
disease that had been collected over the previous ten years and decided 
to concentrate their research in three areas. 


The first drag control was aimed at checking the spread of infection. 
The second supportive therapy - the use of blood-clotting platelets in large 
numbers - was directed at cutting down the haemorrhaging of patients. 
The last virus ideology was simply to study into possible causes of the 
disease. Although clues are accumulating this last is still a mystery. 


ACHIEVEMENTS 


Still, sound progress has been made in the first two area. Very few 
Leukaemia sufferers now die of haemorrhaging. "Haemorrhaging is 
caused by the loss of blood platelets" says Dr. Zubrod," and even though 
it was known several years ago that platelets could be replaced, it was 
difficult to get them in sufficient numbers." 


Positive achievements have also been made with drags. At this time 
the Task Force was organised, there were five drags that could be used 
to treat Leukaemia. Three more have since been discovered. Yet the use 
of these drugs also created problems. Infection in a Leukaemia victim 
spreads quickly because the disease leaves him with a shortage of mature 
white cells, the body's most important disease fighters. In administering 
the drags - which cut down the rapid reproduction of theimmature white 
cells - the scientists found out that other blood cells were being killed, too. 


So members of the Task Force, headed by Dr. Edward $. Henderson, 
began using four of the drugs in combinations. 


This unique drig usage, combined with massive replacement of 
platelets and such developments as the "laminar flow" has extended the 
life expectancy of Leukaemia victims considerably. 


Leukaemia is a malignant growth of white carpuscles in blood which 
is commonly known as Cancer of Blood. Mars and Moon are Karaka for 
this disease. All the watery signs Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces and fourth, 


Blood Circulation 243 


eighth and twelfth houses rale the blood. When Mars, Moon and above 
houses together with lords of fourth, eighth and twelfth houses are 
afflicted, they give rise to diseases connected with blood. Rahu is Karaka 
for all malignant growth. When Rahu being malefic afflicts tbe above 
houses and planets or is any way related with them by conjunction aspect 
etc and also make some relation with disease inflicting houses and 
planets, it gives rise to disease tike Leukaemia. Mars is the principal 
planet ruling blood. When Mars is weak, malefic debilitated combusted 
and afflicted by malefics and by Rahu and is in some way connected with 
disease producing house or planet, may also produce similar diseases. 


In Leukaemia the blood-forming elements multiply at random. It is 
regarded as Cancer of the blood cells. The course is progressively down- 
hill and all that is done is to try and keep the patient as comfortable as 
possible and free from pain. 


It is treated by ionising radiation of Roentgen rays and radio active 
substances, or by treatment with mitotic poisons such nitrogen mustard, 
urethane, myleran, methotrexate etc. 


Harmone therapy with corticotrophin and cortisone is of value in 
some cases. The haemoglobin level in the blood should be adequately 
maintained. Hence iron and blood transfusions are useful. 


Antibiotics help check infection. The organs affected are the spleen, 
liver lymph nodes and the bone marrow. Removal of spleen is done in 
some cases. The drugs and method of treatment used depend on the type 
of cells which proliferate and whether the blood picture is that of acute 
or chronic Leukaemia, and whether it is myeloid ‘or lymphatic in variety. 


Researchers are looking for newer drugs for Leukaemia and other 
cancers. They are not yet available for general use. Cases of Leukaemia 
are treated in all State Hospital and other leading clinics. 


BREAST CANCER 


Woman between forty and forty-five are common victims of Breast 
Cancer. Usually only one breast is affected initially, though it may spread 
to the other later. It is noticed as a small swelling, often in the upper part 
of the breast. Certain types of Breast Cancer are seen in younger women. 
It may appear as hard or firm mass and the nipple will be retracted inside. 
The skin gets attached to the swelling. If it is not treated at this stage, it 
will spread to the skin over it, causing deep ulcers. 


244 Astrology and Diagnosis 


In some cases there will be blood discharge from the nipple. & hen 
there is the slightest doubt about any swelling or lump in the breast or any 
of the above signs, consult a physician. If an early diagnosis is made there 
are far greater chances of curing this malady. Mars produces Cancer of 
blood, marrow, genitals, Uterus, neck etc. 


The Sun is said to cause cancer in the stomach and intestines, Moon 
in the Breast, Mars in the neck, Head and Ovaries, Blood; Mercury in the 
mouth and in the naval. Jupiter in the Liver, tongue and eats; Venus in the 
throat and generative organs and Saturn in hands, legs and the roof of the 
mouth. 


The 6th, 8th and 12 bhavas and all the cruel planets require special 
attention. A special study of Rahu in the Chart is considered essential. 


The lord of the 6th bhava closely associated with cruel planets falling 
in the Ascendant, 8th or 10 bhava with aspects of malefics gives rise to 
this disease. 


Sun in the 6th house with malefic connections brings about ulcers, 
wounds, and similar ailments. Rahu's association in these cases will 
definitely point out Cancer. 


The constellation ASHLESHA should be related to the Ascendant or 
the 6th house and afflicted by Mars. 


Cancer disease is directly connected with Rahu, afflicted Moon, 
afflicting Jupiter or Saturn. The signs Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Libra and 
Capricorm are involved. 


This is a case of Lymphatic 
Wr Ae Leukaemia. 
1. Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces signs 


are afflicted by Rahu fromthe 6th 
house. 

2. 4th, 8th and 12 houses from Lagna 
are afflicted by malefic aspects. 
Lords thereof are also afflicts. 


3. Mars, Karaka for blood, is debili- 
tated and weak. Further he is aspec- 
ted by malefic Rahu from 6th 

house. Moon, another karaka, is weak and afflicted. 


Biood Circulation 245 
4. Sun, Lagna, Karaka is afflicted by Rahu from tbe sixth house. 
5.Lagna and lord of Lagna are also afflicted by malefics. 


6. 4th, 8th and 12th houses from Moon and Lords of these houses are 
afflicted. 8th and 12th bouses from the Sun and their lords are also 
afflicted. 


Thus we find that all the houses and planets ruling blood are afflicted 
in this horoscope. Rahu is powerfully afflicting watery signs, Sun, Mars 
etc from 6th house which suggests suffering from Leukaemia. 


The person died from this disease. 


CANCER 


Cancer is a disease which is increasing now a days very much and is 
said to be almost incurable. It is said to be malignant tumour eating the 
part it is in, spreading indefinitely. Rahu is responsible for all malignant 
growth. When a malignant strong Rahu aspects the house or otherwise 
afflicts the same and if the said house or its lord or karaka be in any way 
related with the disease inflicting house or planet the malignant growth 
in that part of the body ruled by the house or planet is likely, Lords of 
dusthanas are also responsible for this disease. When a house is afflicted 
by most of the malefics and evil lords, particularly by Saturn, Rahu or 
Mars, Cancer may appear in that part of the body ruled by the house, 
afflicted or in that part ruled by the planet afflicted. In case of Cancer, if 
the house ruling the afflicted part of the body is found not afflicted by 
other malefics, it will be seen Lagna, lord of Lagna and Karaka planets 
are heavily afflicted, and the house ruling the part of the body from Sun 
or Moon will e found heavily afflicted. When sixth lord joins Lagna, 8th 
house or 10th house and malefic Rahu afflicts a house keeping some 
relation with above houses or house lords Cancer will come into presence 
in that part of the body ruled by the afflicted house or planet. Sometimes 
planets afflicting or causing diseases, gives rise to disease of its own 
character. 


Planets rule different parts of the body and when they are malefics and 
afflicted, they are capable of giving rise to the cancer in that part of the 
body ruled by them and they are as follows. 


Sun produces Cancer in stomach, bowel, head etc. 


246 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Moon produces Cancer of blood, breasts etc. 

Mars produces Cancer of blood, marrow, genitals, uterus, neck etc. 
Mercury produces Cancer of nose, navel, mouth etc. 

Jupiter produces Cancer of fiver, ear, tongue, thighs etc. 

Venus produces Cancer of throat, genital organs etc. 


Satum produces Cancer in legs, hands, places around teeth etc. 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


MOON NEP 
10 


2 
SAT 
JUP 

URANUS 


Vax 


This is a case of Cancer of the Throat. The person died of the same 
disease. 


The lord of the Ascendant Mercury is in the 8th house with malefics 
Mars and Saturn. There is an opposition between Uranus and Neptune and 
they in mutual kendra yoga with Rahu. 


The Moon, lord of the 2nd house is being aspected by Satum and Mars 
and they are in opposition to the Moon. The Venus is in the sign of Mars 
and in Navamsa the Moon is with Neptune in the sign of Saturn, thus 
afflicting the Moon. 


The lord of the 6th house Mars is in the 8th in his exalted sign 
Capricorn. If the yoga caused by the lords of the sixth and the eighth is 
considered to be auspicious, then in this case no such result was seen. 
Inspite of Jupiter's aspect of Lagna, he could not prevent the Saturn, 
Neptune and Moon causing the disease of the Cancer 


MARS) MER 


The person had the cancer of the throat as indicated by the 2nd house 
and he died of the same disease. 


The 2nd house and the lord of the 2nd house are afflicted and the native 
instead of getting other diseases he had the disease of CANCER. 


Blood Circulation 247 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


Ss 
Xo Kx 


This person had Cancer of the Intestine. The affected part of the 
intestine was cut and removed through an operation and yet the person 
died of the same disease. 


In this horoscope Venus is in the sign of Saturn, in Navamsa the Venus 
is with Saturn and Neptune and the Moon is with Mars. In the birth chart 
and Saturn is debilitated and is in the sign of Mars and afflicts the Moon 
in Libra and Mars in the 7th house in Gemini and Uranus in the 2nd in 
Capricorn, by aspects. 


The lord Lagna Jupiter is being aspected by Mars and the Jupiter is in 
the 10th house. The lord of the8th Moon is in opposition to Saturn. Saturn 
afflicts Mars who is also lord of the 12th. Saturn and Uranus and the Moon 
and Uranus are in mutual kendra yogas which have influenced to cause 
the disease of Cancer. 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


to 
as 
ao 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


This is the horoscope of Sagittarius Ascendant. Venus the lord of the 
6th is in the 10th. The person was suffering from Lingual Cancer. And 
Cancer was traced to Syphilis of the tongue- lord of the 2nd in Lagna, 
Venus, the Sensual planet in the 10th made the native sensual and 
immoral. Though he occupied a high position, his was a life of debauchery 
and drunkenness. It looks as though Venus becomes involved with seat 
of the disease is almost all patients who have Cancer within the oral 
cavity. Mars appears to be the villain in patients having the cancer of gall 
Bladder. 


BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


SNK 
Ser 
oe 


» 
p 


This is acase of Cancer. The Lagna is Sagittarius and tbe lord of the 
sixth house Venus is situated in Lagna in Moola ( Ketu’s constellation), 
aspected by Saturn. 


The disease was suspected in Saturn's dasa and he passed away in 
Moon's sub-period of Saturn's Major period. 


This is a case of Cancer. The person 
was attacked by CANCER OFTHE 
CACCUM and died from the same. 


I. Rahu being highly malefic is 
aspecting Lagna, Sun, 5th house. 
Further it is afflicting Leo sign. 
Rahu being aspected by Mars and 
Saturn and being conjoined with 
8th lord, is highly malefic and is 
indicator of Death. 


SOx 
Se 


Blood Circulation 249 


2. Leo sign is afflicted by Mars, Sat urn and Rahu. Sth lord is hemmed 
in between malefics. Fifth house from Sun and Moon are also 
afflicted, and particularly by Rahu. 


3. Jupiter lord of Lagna is in Dusthana. 
4. Moon is afflicted by Rahu, Mars, Saturn. 
5. Sun is afflicted by Rahu. 


Thus we find fifth house fromLagna, Sun and Moon and Leo sign and 
Sun are afflicted and particularly Rahu and are capable of producing 
disease. Affliction of Rahu on the above houses and over Sun suggests 
Cancer in the caccum, 


This is a case of CANCER IN 
THROAT. 


1. Rahu is aspecting 3rd house ruling 
throat and Lagna. It is further 
aspecting third lord. Rahu is a 
OS disease inflicting planet, being in 


a sensitive sign Pisces. 


2. Virgo, third house, is a sensitive 
sign and is conjoined with Ketu. Third lord is also conjoined with Ketu. 
Gemini ruling throat is conjoined with sixth lord. 


3. Third houses from Sun and Moon, and lords thereof are afflicted. 


4. Lagna is afflicted by Saturn, Mars, Rahu. Lord of Lagna is in the 
sixth house aspected by sixth lord. 


5. Venus, karaka for throat diseases, is afflicted and is malefic from 
Lagna, Sun and Moon. 


Thus we find third houses from Lagna, Sun and Moon, their lords, 
Gemini sign and karaka planets are afflicted and are capable of producing 
diseases like Cancer of Throat. 


250 Astrology and Diagnosis 


This is a horoscope if a Female, who 
suffered from CANCER IN ABDO- 
MEN and ultimately died from the 
same. 

S 1. Saturn is in the sixth house from 


Moon. 


2. Moon and a malefic in the sixth 
house aspected by malefics. 


9 3. Sixth house and lord of Lagna are 
MOON: “Bar afflicted by aspect of Rahu, Mars, 
Sun, lord of evil houses and are 


also conjoified with 8th lord Sat- 
- urn. 


4. Fifth house is hemmed in between malefics. 
5. Virgo and Leo signs are afflicted by malefic aspects. 


6. Sixth lord Jupiter is afflicted by conjunction and aspects of 
malefics. 


7. Sun, Karaka in the dusthana conjoined with evil lords and is aspec- 
ted by 8th lord Saturn from sixth house. 


8. Fifth and sixth houses from Moon are afflicted. Their lords are also 
afflicted. 


9. Fifth house from Sun and lord of the house are also afflicted. Sixth 
house from Sun and lord of the house, are hemmed between male- 
fics. 


Thus we find all the factors ruling stomach and bowels are afflicted 
in this horoscope suggesting serious illness concerning the above places. 
Affliction of sixth house and lord of Lagna by all the malefics and also 
by Lords of Dusthanas justify death from disease like CANCER of 
Intestines. 


RICKETS 


Rickets is a disease of nutrition occurring in early childhood. It mainly 
affects the growth of the bones, but may be accompanied by the tetany 
in some cases. Associated nutritional disorders produce anaemia and a 


Blood Circulation 281 
tendency to catarrh of the mucous membranes in many instances. 


Various theories have been held in the past as to the cause of rickets, 
but it is now clear that it is essentially due to absence of Vitamin D in 
sufficient amounts to promote adequate calcification of growing bones. 
The fauilt is usually dietitic, and not only because of deficiency of vitamin 
D containing foods but also because of excess of carbohydrate promotes 
more rapid growth than calcification can cope with. 


The ultra-violet rays of sunshine can manufacture vitamin D in the 
skin. Hence all these conditions which prevent the free access of 
unfiltered sunshine to the skin of the growing infant may be regarded as 
predisposing to rickets and changes in the bones. 


The section through the end of the long bone shows that ossification, 
instead of proceeding in an ordinary way, is generally disorganised. 
Chemical analysis shows that the bones contain only from 30 per cent to 
50 per cent of calcium instead of normal 60 per cent or more. They may 
show signs of old or recent fracture. Other organs show no characteristic 
change. 


The increasing use of dried milk, fortified with Vitamin D is undoubt- 
edly an improving factor in the decrease of rickets in its serious forms. 
After weaning the premature excessive use of starchy foods must be 
avoided. Care should be taken that diet contains an adequate amount of 
animal fat. Plenty of fresh air, sunlight and exercise are also important 
factors in prophylaxis. All infants in cold and temperate climates receive 
a daily supplement of cod-fiver oil or tbe official cod-liver compound to 
give 800 intemational units of vitamin D daily for the first two years of 
life. The same dose should be used throughout to give a relatively larger 
amount to the small infant. Renal rickets is caused by a defect in the 
tubules or glomeruli of the kidneys. 


Vitamin D resistant rickets is a form of the malady which is resistant 
to treatment with normal doses of Vitamin D. 


Rickets refractory in varying degrees to Vitamin D occurs in several 
complex disorders such as Fanconi's syndrome, Lowe's syndromes and 


252 Astrology and Diagnosis 


renal tubular acidosis. Rickets may also develop in the mal-absorption 
syndromes if the defective intestinal absorption is not compensated with ' 
large doses of Vitamin D orally in water-miscible preparations or if 
required, parenterally. The usual oily preparations will not be absorbed. 


The one particular disease, known as Refractory Rickets or renal 
pophosphatemia rickets resistance to unusually large doses of Vitamin D 
is only manifestation. Detoni-Debre Fanconi Syndrome is condition in 
which refractory rickets is associated with multiple defects of the renal 
tubular. Amino-acid urea, renal glycosuria, hypophosphatemia and 
hyper-phospaturia are present. 


Fanconi's Syndrome with cystinosis can occur and is also termed 
Lignac's Syndrome, Lowe's syndrome is characterised by mental retar- 
dation glaucoma amino aciduria and diminished renal production of 
ammonia. 


It is an oculo-oerehro-renal dystrophy. 


Bone lesions resulting from chronic glomecular and tubular insuffi- 
ciency were formerly termed renal rickets. Today, it includes all the 
glomecular and tubular lesions that can rise to rickets. Rickets may also 
be associated with renal tubular acidosis. 


CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 


The normal physiological processes which are taking place within our 
bodies day to day are controlled by various nerve centres and reflexes, 
which in turned are governed by planets. It is interesting to note that the 
planets have a great say in our day to day life. 


The Circulatory system consists of heart, large arteries and their 
branches with large veins and vecoles. Mars is mainly responsible for the 
blood formation and propelling force of heart and the Moon takes part in 
keeping the blood concentration. Whenever Mats is afflicted by Satum 
in the fourth house there is always some weakness of the heart or when 
the Moon is hemmed in between malefics or when associated with Saturn 
or Rahu, there will be weaknessof heart. The degree of weakness depends 
upon the degree of affliction. 


Blood Circulation 253 


ANEAMIA 


Anaemia really signifies lack of blood, but poorness of blood is a 
principal characteristic. Healthy blood contains immense number of red 
globules, which are seen under the microscope, and which give the blood 
its red colour. In anaemia these red globules are lessened in number and 
are deficient in a constituent known as HAEMOGLOBIN, which 
contains iron, and which has the special power of carrying the oxygen, 
taken in by breathing, fiom the lungs to all parts of the body. There is also 
an excess of water, in the blood, and some other of the constituents of the 
blood are changed in character. 


The causes of anaemia are numerous. Insufficient diet not amounting 
to actual starvation. Want of sufficient Sunlight; the bleaching effect of 
want of solar light on vegetables are well known and a similar sinister 
influence is exerted on animal life. Habitually living in darkened rooms, 
and want of sufficient fresh air and exercise, lead to loss of appetite and 
malnutrition. Prolonged fatigue, which causes a greater waste of thebody 
than the digestive organs can meet. Habitual constipation, during which 
the absorption of the products of retained faecal matter takes place, which 
act as poisons. Worry, anxiety and depressing mental emotions have long 
been recognised as causing the cheeks to grow pale. Living in damp and 
malarious localities. Anaemia may also arise ftom various diseased 
conditions. There are several forms or phases of anaemia, the principal 
of which are as below: 


1. The form of anaemia known as green sickness or chlorosis. When 
anaemia is connected with the first appearance, or with irregulari 
ties of the monthly courses of women, it is often called "green 
sickness" or the chlorosis, and it presents some features different 
to those of ordinary anaemia. 


2. Leucocythaemia or white cell blood, is an advanced stage of 
anaemia, in which there is a large increase in white cells in the 
blood, enlargement of glands in various parts of the body, and 
usually also of the spleen. 


3. Malarious Cachexia is merely another name for aneamia follow- 
ing numerous or protracted attacks of Malaria. 


4. Melasma, or Addison's disease, the symptoms of which are 


254 Astrology and Diagnosis 


progressive feebleness without any apparent cause and often a 
peculiar change in the appearance of skin which becomes bronzed. 
This condition is connected with changes in the structure of 
attachments to the kidneys, known as the supra-renal capsules. 


The blood is represented astrologically by Jupiter. But Jupiter also 
represents the circulation of the blood and the Liver as well. And it is 
important to remember this because otherwise you might be misled into 
diagnosing anaemic condition as a fiver disorder, whereas it is with a 
deficiency of red blood corpuscles that we really have concern, and that 
in turn means a deficiency of iron (Mars). The symbol of anaemia consists 
that in the majority of instances Mars is to be found in square or 
conjunction with Jupiter in birth chart. 


The result of this research directed to tracing the stellar causes of 
forms of anaemia shows that chlorosis will threaten at some salient period 
(the timing of which is also indicated in the horoscope) if there is present 
in the birth chart the configuration of Mars square Jupiter, Mars conjunc- 
tion Jupiter, Mars opposition Jupiter. And that Addison's disease is 
indicated if the birth configuration consists of (Jupiter conjunction 
Saturn) square Mars. 


Anaemia is reduction of the amount of blood as a whole or of its 
corpuscle or of certain of its constituents. 


Watery sigh, namely, Cancer, Vrischika and Meena rashis rule the 
Blood. Fourth and eighth and a twelfth house also rale the same Mars is 
karaka for same. When watery sign, fourth, eighth and twelfth houses, 
lords of these houses and Mars are weak and afflicted or badly situated 
etc or when these houses or planets are conjoined with evil lords, anaemia 
may come into presence; when any disease inflicting planet or house is 
related with them, they may produce diseases concerning ANAEMIA. 


DIAGNOSIS OF ANAEMIA 


The symbol for Anaemia consists of some form of aspect between 
Mars (iron) and Jupiter (the blood). And that the majonty of cases Mars 
is to be found in Square or conjunction with Jupiter in birth chart. 


Blood Circulation 255 


NZ 
x 
yx. 


VEN 


JuP 


A female bom 29.7.1912, who was 
suffering from Pernicious anaemia. 
There is present a formation of Square 
with Jupiter in this chart. Ox-liver 
was of great assistance to clearing of 
this lady's condition. 


A female bom on 16th Febmary 
1933 who suffered from chlorosis. 
Of course, this condition is indicated 
in her birth chart by the presence of 
Mars conjunction Jupiter. Her 
anaemia coincided with a thoroughly 
run-down condition, promoted 
chiefly by worries (note the present 
of Venus conjunction with Saturn) a 
configuration which could also be 
responsible for lowering the blood 
pressure) on account of being preg- 


nant though unmarried. It was, of course, an easy condition to cure once 


the basic facts were known. 


A female bom January 1st 1893 who 
suffered from pernicious anaemia 
(Addison's disease). In her case, of 
course, the presence of Mars square 
Jupiter in her birth chart permits a 
direct diagnosis of Anaemia. In this 
horoscope there is a complication of 
Jupiter opposition to Satum which 
so patently points to Addison's dis- 
ease. 


256 Astrology and Diagnosis 
DISEASE OF IMPURITY OF BLOOD AND POISON 


Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces signs rule the blood. 4th, 8th and 12th 
houses also rule the same. Mars is Karaka forBlood. Moon is karaka for 
blood diseases. Virgo sign Rahu and Ketu work for all poisoning. When 
signs and planets ruling blood be afflicted and make any relation with 
Virgo sign or Rahu or Ketu, there are likeness of diseases from poisoning 
of blood. A malefic and afflicted Moon placed in Dusthana or aspected 
by lord of dusthana or conjoined with lord of dusthana also give rise to 
similar diseases. When malefic Rahu or Ketu conjoins with Moon or 
Mars, they are also capable of producing similar diseases. When Virgo 
sign, Rahu or Ketw be afflicted or make any relation with Lagna, lord of 
lagna or Lagna Karaka Sun orthey also become afflicted alongwith Virgo 
sign, Rahu or Ketu, or when malefic Rahu or Ketu afflicts them they give 
rise to disease and troubles from poison. Second house rules the Mouth. 
Taurus sign also rules the same. When second house, lord of second house 
or Taurus sign be afflicted along with the houses or planets ruling poison 
or when these houses be in any way related to houses and planets ruling 
Poison they result into troubles from poison taken by mouth. 


Malefic Mars is aspected by Malefic. 

Saturn, Rahu and Mars in one house. 

Rahu and strong malefic in the 5th house. 

Afflicted Atmakaraka planet in Aries or Leo Navamsa. 


wk ON» 


Afflicted Moon in Virgo sign between malefics. 

The following are the combinations suggesting trouble from Poison. 
1. Sixth lord and Rahu in Lagna. 

2. Sixth lord and Ketu in lagna. 

3. If bom in Visha-ghatika, while a malefic is in the 8th house. 
4. Lords of lagna and second house in dusthana with Saturn. 


5. If Navamsa lord of the 10th house fromLagna be in a dusthana 
with Saturn. 


Acase of IMPURITY OF BLOOD. The diseases were irruption and skin 
disease. 


1. Malefic 8th lord Mars is in 6th house aspected by malefic Rahu. 


2. All the watery signs and 4th, 8th, and 12th houses ruling blood 
are afflicted. 


Blood Circulation 257 


3. Moon is afflicted by conjunction 
S77 Wo of Ketu and is in 8th house, Mars 
is in the 6th house afflicted by 

Rahu. 


4. Lagna, which is also Virgo sign, is 
afflicted by conjunction of 26th 
lord Saturn and is aspected by 8th 
lord Mars from the 6th house. 


1 
YON Thus factors ruling the diseases 
from Poison and Blood are afflicted 


in this chart. Prior to this, he also 
suffered from Dysentery, which is 


MOON KETU justified from the affliction of Virgo 
7 sign, 6th house, 6th lord, Mars and 
Venus. 


This is a case of CARBUNCLE in 
the back portion near Neck. 


1. Mars being lord of Lagna and 6th 


houses is afflicted by malefic con- 
lane go junction and is hemmed between 
malefics. 
2. Malefic Saturn is in 2nd house aspected by malefic Rahu from 
the 6th house. 


3. Third house is afflicted by sixth lord Mars and 8th lord Mercury 
and is hemmed between malefics. Third house Saturn is afflicted 
by aspect of Rahu from sixth house. Mars, karaka, for Carbuncle 
is afflicted and is also afflicting the third house. 


4. Third house from Sun and Moon and lords thereof are afflicted. 


5. Cancer sign is afflicted by malefics. Scorpio and Pisces signs are 
hemmed between malefics. 


6. Gemini sign, house of neck, is afflicted. Further Sagittarius and 
Capricorn signs are, ruling back portion are afflicted. | [th houses 
from Lagna, Sun and Moon and their lords, ruling back portion of 
neck are afflicted. 


258 Astrology and Diagnosis 


BLOOD PRESSURE 


In medical terminology hypertension means Blood pleasure. Blood 
pressure may be either low of High and both conditions are bad, more so 
low blood pressure. 


There is wide range of blood pressure in healthy subjects varying from 
100 to 145 mm mercury systolic to 60 to 90 diatolic. The average normal 
is about 120by 80 and a figure of 140by 90 in an otherwise healthy adult 
may be taken as upper limit of normal. 


By low blood pressure we mean below the normal level. The mean 
level of the adult is 120/80, 120 when heart contracts and 80 when heart 
relaxes, in terms of Mercury pressure. Suppose an adult has a BP. of 100/ 
70. This is a definite figure of low blood pressure. Upto the year 40, the 
normal blood pressure will range between 120/80 and 140/90. But if it 
exceeds 150/100 level at 40, we say the person is hypertensive. 


Nervousness, excitement, fatigue cold and smoking may raise the 
normal level especially the systolic pressure. Systolic hypertension alone 
may occur in aortic incompetence or due to thyrotoxicosis or severe 
anaemia. 


Diastolic hypertension frequently occurs due to essential hyperten- 
sion, renal hypertension and endocrine disorders with harmonal imbal- 
ance. 


The chief planets for consideration of this malady are Mars, Sun, Ketu 
and the Moon. Moon when combined, makes a man highly strung and 
given to fits of temper his blood will throb through his fingers and temple 
etc. This is general picture of High Blood Pressure. Moon in full digits is 
capable of causing blood pressure as it draws full liquids including the 
ocean. 


Incidentally, the Moon governs the watery portion of the blood and 
Mars governs the Blood cells. 


Certain constellation belonging to the Sun, Mars and Ketu have much 
to do with blood pressure. Other constellation also have their sensitive 
points main factors being Hasta, Swati, Jyeshta and Anuradha. Thus the 
constellation that cause either high or low blood pressure are as follows. 


Krittika, Migsira, Uttara -phalguni, Hasta, Chitra, Jyeshta, Uttarashada, 
Dhanishta generally produce High blood pressure. 


Ashwini, Rohini, Aridra, Swati, Moola, Shatabhisha and Revati 
generally produce Low blood pressure. But these canto some extent cause 


Blood Circulation 259 


temporary blood pressure depending on Gochara (Transits) influences. 
Mars in the constellation of Ketu generally tends to produce Low Blood 
Pressure. 


A thorough investigation of the patient should follow a detailed 
clinical examination including a look into the fundus of the eye. Any 
endocrine or renal disorders should be suitably treated. Essential hyper- 
tension is one in which no evidence of any organic disease is found. 


Mars in the constellation of the Sun or vice versa will generally 
produce high blood pressure. Certain lagnas and influence of other 
planets and the distance between the Sunand the Moon are also important 
when predicting either high or low blood pressure. 


Fifth and ninth houses are important in medical astrology when we 
consider diseases of blood and heart. The 5th house governs right 
ventricle and the 9th house governs the left ventricle. The two important 
complications arising out of high blood pressure and Low blood pressure 
are heart failure. and paralysis respectively, though either of the condition 
may produce either of the diseases mentioned. 


The fourth house in a horoscope is important when we consider the 
possible Myocardial infraction leading to heart attack. So the 4th, 5th and 
the 9th houses should generally be free from malefics for a healthy life. 
Another important point is the distance between the Sun and the Moon. 
Generally a distance more than 120 degrees causes major disturbances. 


The blood pressure may rise temporarily also and this happens due to 
Gochara combinations. Whenever Sun passes overthe radical Mars, there 
is a slight rise of blood pressure and uneasiness. Similarly when the Moon 
passes over either the Sun or Mars, there is a slight rise of blood pressure 
but when it passes over Ketu, there is a general depression. 


Rauwolfia serpentine alkaloids are the mainstay of the treatment of 
essential hypertension. Salt restriction in the diet is essential. Potassium 
salt can be used for cooking, as common salt contains sodium. Stress and 
strain should be minimised as this alone can cause high blood pressure. 
Water mtake should be readjusted. 


If signs of congestive heart failure are seen with swelling of the feet 
or oedema, adiuretic should be given to rid the body of sodium and water. 
Oily and fried foods are best avoided including those which cause 
flaruence. Foods with high cholesterol such as yoke of egg, cheese, cream 
of milk, coconut oil and animal fats like ghee, butter and saturated fatty 
acids should be avoided. 


260 Astrology and Diagnosis 


BLOOD PRESSURE - ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS 


Moon and Mars, these two planets are responsible for causing 
variations in pressure. When Moon and Mars be lords of dusthana be 
conjoined with lords of dusthanas, be in dusthanas, or be afflicted by 
malefics and be in some way related with the house of disease and with 
disease inflicting planet, they may give rise to the disease of Blood 
pressure. The watery signs, Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces signs and also 
fourth, eighth and twelfth houses rule the Blood. When these houses are 
the weak and afflicted, they give rise to the disease. A weak and afflicted 
Moon and a strong and afflicted Mars are responsible for high blood 
pressure. A weak and afflicted Moon together with a weak and afflicted 
Mars is responsible for Low Blood pressure. Lagna-and lord of lagna have 
important function in this disease. A weak and afflicted lagna and a weak 
afflicted or badly placed lord of lagna and lord of lagna conjoined with 
sixth-lord or in any diseases inflicting planet or they being in sixth house 
or in any disease inflicting house are bad for this disease. If Mars and 
Moon be strong unafflicted and well situated in Navamsa chart, the 
malefic influence in natal chart willbe much minimised and a very strong 
combination in navamasa chart may even counteract the evil force 
completely. Iflagna or lord of lagna be also strong in navamsa, com- 
pletely. If lagna or lord of lagna be also strong in navamsa, they minimise 
the evil effects. 


This is a case of HIGH BLOOD 

1. Lagna is afflicted by strong malefic 
and lord of Lagna is in 8th house 
aspected by malefics. 


2. Moon is in dusthana, in house of 
her bitter enemy and is heavily 


muBS afflicted. 
a vat 3. Mars, a karaka is strong being his 
own house. 


4. Cancer, watery sign, is heavily afflicted. Further Cancer sign is in 
Lagna. 


5. 4th, 8th and 12th houses from Lagna, Sun and Moon are heavily 
afflicted. Further their lords are also afflicted. 


6. Sun, the Lagna karaka is debilitated. 


Blood Circulation 261 


In this horoscope also, all the houses and planets ruling blood are 
afflicted suggesting Blood Pressure. As Mars is not afflicted in this 
horoscope the case is not as bad as previous one. 


This is a case of Blood Pressure. 

1. Lord of Lagna is debilitated and is 
NSF 7 with malefic, 

2. Moon is weak being almost New- 


Moon, is hemmed between 
malefics and is aspected by 
malefic. 

3. Mars is lord of 6th house and is in 
the 8th, in house of bitter enemy, 

“in but exalted. 
4. Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces signs rul- 
ing blood are afflicted. 


5. 4th, 8th and 12th houses from Lagna ruling blood are also 
afflicted. 


Thus we find the houses and planets ruling blood are afflicted and are 
in a position to give rise to the disease of High Blood Pressure. 


This is a case of LOW BLOOD PRESSURE. 


1. Lord of Lagna is weakand heavily 
coy Ler afflicted. Lagna is also afflicted 
MARS by conjunction of 8th lord and by 


MOON aspect of malefic. 

2. Moon and Mars are afflicted by 
malefic Saturn, who is also lord of 
the sixth house. Mars if weak and 
both Mars and Moon are in Virgo 

é sign. 


3. Cancer, Pisces two watery signs 
are afflicted. 


4, 4th, 8th, and 12th houses from Lagna, Moon and Sun are afflicted. 8th 
and 12th lord: from Lagna and Moon and 4th ane 8th lords from Sun are 
afflicted. 


262 Astrology and Diagnosis 


5. | Lagna karaka Sun is afflicted and aspected by sixth lord. 


VARICOSE VEINS 


The Veim is stated to be varicose when it is dilated, lengthened and 
tortuous. The condition commonly occurs in connection with the veins of 
the leg. The spermatic desophageal and haemorrhoidal veins are fre- 
quently involved. Varicose Veins are part of the penalty we pay for 
adoption of the erect posture as animals do not suffer from it. The cause 
is the deficiency of thevalves or muscular coat. The conditions may have 
a tendency to ran in certain families. 


The Veins may be obstructed as in pregnancy and tumours. Symptoms 
consist of tired and-aching sensation in the leg, sharp pain at the site of 
varicose itching of the skin of the leg swelling of the ankle and cramps 
in the calf muscles. 


Any known cause should be treated. The veins are supported by crepe or 
elastic bandages, or elastic stockings. Injections of sclerosant is tried in 
certain cases and for cosmetic reasons. Ligation and division of the vein 
is the treatment of choice. 


The complications that may occur due to varicose Vein are 
thrombophlebitis, eczema or dermatitis and ulceration of the leg. 


CHAPTER 16 


DISEASES OF METABOLISM 
DIABETES 


Diabetes is the name of the disease, called in Sanskrit 
"MADHUMEHA", Passing of excessive urine and extra thirst are the 
symptoms assigned to it by Aretus, a greek author, about 2150 years ago 
and a contemporary of Galen, a well-known Greek Physician. These may 
be symptoms among other noticed in such a disease but accumulation of 
abnormal sugar in blood and its discharge in the urine are the chief factors 
in this disease. This fact was known to the Great Indian physician, i.e., 
Charaka and Sushruta 2000 to 2650 years ago but was unknown to 
Western physicians till Thoman Willis, an English physician in the 17th 
century, who made it known that the urine of a diabetic patient was as 
sweet as honey. 


Thereafter the disease was called as Diabetes Mellitus. This particu- 
larly deals with Diabetes for its astrological origin. 


Diabetes Mellitus is a common disease which usually begins after 
middle age. But it is more severe in the young. It is a disease of 
metabolism. The essence of the pathological condition appears to be a 
disturbance of the normal balance of factors regulating carbohydrate 
metabolism. 


There is no reference to the disease, Diabetes Mellitus, in ancient 
standard Astrological works in India but there is no doubt that it was well- 
known to the Ayurvedic physicians of yore since the old literature 
contains good description of it. It is a disease that though not actually fatal, 
devitalizes and incapacitates an individual in its course after its insidious 
onset. 


Diabetes Mellitus is the name of a disease which is produced as the 
end-result of the progress of a disease of the pancreas, the latter disease 
leading to a failure of the islets of Langer-hans (consisting of cells 
contained within the pancreas) to effect their normal secretion of insulin 
(aproduct which burns up and utilises the sugar in the body) thereby 
causing the quantity of sugar inthe blood to rise. This is because the intake 
of carbohydrates is normally converted into grape sugar in the intestine, 
And from there carried to the liver for conversion in Glycogen (i.e. 
starches which are stored up by the muscles in order they may be 
reconverted to sugar when needed). But when the insulin flow is stored 


264 Astrology and Diagnosis 


up and proceeds to accumulate in the blood, the excess being drained off 
for discharge in the urine. Hence the testing of urine for sugar content is 
a means of detecting the onset of this particular disease. 


Pancreas (Swadu-pinda-literally sweet producing) gland is a flat 
gland situated in the abdomen cavity, about six inches in length and 
reddish grey in colour. Pancreatic juice created therein flows through 
pancreatic duct which meets the bile duct and then through a joint duct 
is poured into duodenum to digest carbohydrates, nitrogenous and fatty 
substances. 


The presence of amylopsin in the pancreatic juice produces sugar 
known as Maltos. Insulinis also present inthe juice created from the inlets 
of Langerhans situated in the pancreas along with other cells. This insulin 
is absorbed in the blood through capillaries and lymphatics. Due to the 
deficiency of Insulin, Maltos is not properly digested, and it increases in 
the blood and passes through urine. 


In the process of regulation of carbo hydrate metabolism the liver 
plays the most important part. But the harmonal output of the pancreas, 
pituitary adrenals are also very essential. In all cases of diabetes there is 
an insufficiency of insulin in relation to the needs of the organism. Insulin 
is secreted by the pancreas. The carbohydrates takenin are duly converted 
to fructer at the intestines and glycogen at the liver due to the action of 
the insulin. 


If insulin is not produced due to the damage of the pancreas, the 
carbohydrates taken in will be drained out through the urine without being 
absorbed in the blood in the form of glycogen. Glycosuria is the chief 
symptom of diabetes, associated with polyuria, excessive thirst and 
hunger and marked loss of weight. 


Pancreas is ruled by the sign Cancer and affliction to Cancer is one of 
the indications for diabetes. The working of thepancreas is disturbed by 
overeating of savoury food. Food or taking food is governed by the 2nd 
house as is seen from stanza 49, chapter 11 of JATAKA PAREJATA, 


In the field of disease and death man stands shoulder to shoulder on 
a common platform with all the living creatures on the earth. There are 
no living beings that are not subject to them. The higher the species in the 
scale of evolution the greater its susceptibilities to disease and man is the 
highest tops the rank ever there. Modern science wants to eliminate 
disease and make the world if possible disease free. The naturalist feels 
that it is the remote possibility. 


Diseases of Metabolism 265 


Diabetes Mellitus is not a hereditary disease though hereditary 
incidence is stated by different authors to vary between 5 to 13% and 
explained as due to the same excesses of diet; it is not contagious and not 
infectious. Of several persons partaking of the same food, participating 
in the same work and in a common environmental condition as is found 
in a Hindu Family only one may develop this disease. 


In Modern medicine Diabetes Mellitus is defined as a disease of 
Metabolism in which there is an increase of sugar in blood, continuous 
excretion of sugar in urine in larger or smaller quantities, polyurea or 
increase in the quantity of urine, excessive thirst bulimia (excessive 
hunger) and progressive emaciation and due to disturbance inthe balance 
off ndocrine factors the endocrine regulators being insulin of pancreas 
and harmones of the pituitary, thyroid and adrenal (supra renal) glands. 
It is common between 40 to 60 years of age, and more common among 
males than females. Excess of sugar and carbohydrate food, obesity and 
over-weight raised blood pressure and great mental anxieties are said to 
play some part in the causation of it. The actual existing cause is not 
known. 


Jupiter rules the pancreas, the liver and carbohydrates and in the 
horoscopical charts of thediabetic patients it is found very badly afflicted. 
Many diabetics do not die directly of diabetes. They die from complica- 
tions, Cardiac-vascular, and renal. Therefore in the case of patients of 
diabetes care should be taken to find out whether there are any planetary 
indications forarteriosclerosis, hypertension, cerebral haemorrhage, and 
renal failure. It may also be noted that in many chronic diseases like 
Diabetes, Nephritis and Cancer, the terminal condition may be Thrombotic 
nonbacterial endocarditis. 


The normal function of carbohydrate metabolism which is of primary 
concern in diabetes mellitus depends on the maintainence of equibilirium 
between glycogen (sugar) productive in the liver and its consumption in 
the perpheral organs particularly muscles. The consumption of sugar is 
caused by the insulin of pancreas; it is said to create a vacuum for glucose 
in the tissues and sugar diffuses into them from the blood. 


Insulin facilitates and perhaps controls formation of muscle glycogen 
from blood sugar. Production, storage and release to blood stream of 
glycogen (sugar) are carried in the liver under endocrine control. In it the 
production of glycogen is governed by the islet system of pancreas 
pancreas, the adrenal cortex and the anterior pituitary lobe and decom- 
position (splitting) of glycogen and mobilization by the thyroid the 
adrenal medulla and the posterior pituitary lobe. The level of sugar in 


266 Astrology and Diagnosis 


blood is the stimulating agent to the specific cerebral centres regulating 
sugar metabolism and those centres through nervous paths determine the 
degree of the functional activity of the normal glands concerned, and 
maintain the equilibrium or balance between production and consump- 
tion of sugar in the body. This, in short, is the process of carbohydrate 
metabolism in the normal condition. And it is obvious that any irregular- 
ity-excess of deficiency in the function of the members of this chain of 
glands - may upset the balance and cause an increase or decrease in the 
quantity of blood sugar. Inthe great majority of cases of Diabetes Mellitus 
actual deficiency of insulin is present and this deficiency is due to 
insufficiency of theislet system of thepancreas. Rarely the other glands- 
pituitary, thyroid and adrenal - are found primarily involved in the 
process. When the disease has manifested, a specialist in medicine by 
various laboratory tests and elimination methods may fix on the particular 
gland or group of glands, that has given rise to syndrome. 


Pancreas is ruled by the sign Cancer and affliction of Cancer is one 
of the indications for Diabetes. The working of thepancreas is disturbed 
by over-eating of savoury food. 


The Moon stands for the nuitrive but due to affliction with false notion 
of getting vigour or strength or due to false appetite a man gets habituated 
to over-eating and indulges in rich food and if accompanied with 
sedentary habits, lack of exercise, as brain work is prone to get fatty for 
want of proper digestion and easily falls a victim to this disease. As lord 
of Cancer, it may be noteworthy to mark the position of the Moon in the 
chart. 


Wrinkles and mucous membrane connected with villus through 
which lymphatic and blood capillaries absorb the digestive fluids in the 
duodenum. This absortive power is ruled by Jupiter is afflicted. 


As said above the sign Cancer has sway over pancreas and also over 
Liver which is the centre of Jupiterean activities and the afflicted Jupiter 
-causes diseases connected with liver and pancreas among several others. 


The original seat of this disease is Cancer and its 6th house of disease 
falls in Sagittarius, the sign ruled by Jupiter. The combination of 1st and 
6th lord is not a good one. So the combination of Jupiter and the Moon 
in this circumstance as the lord of the 6th and 1st must show evil results 
in case of health, the root cause of which is in Cancer and this is the other 
side of the disc. We notice both are working hand in hand. 


Diseases of Metabolism 267 


Astro logically, by a careful examination of birth chart, it is possible 
notonly to diagnose the susceptibility to Diabetes Mellitus but also know 
the probable gland or glands whose affliction may disturb the balance 
Astrology is a science and influences from the application of that do not 
defer from the finding of Medical Science. In this disease planets and 
signs ruling the gland - pancreas, pituitary, supparenal and thyroid are 
found in affliction variously in the different type. 


The planet Uranus and the sign Aries govern Pituitary, Mercury and 
Taurus Thyroid, Jupiter and Cancer pancreas, and Jupiter and Libra the 
suprarenal (adrenal). The Liver, the great regulating mechanism of blood 
sugar is controlled by the mighty benevolent Jupiter and two signs Cancer 
and Virgo share in its rule. 


From the above it is observable that mostly the cardinal signs are 
concerned in this. As stated above, Diabetes Mellitus is due to the disease 
of the thyroid and adrenal and even pituitary is rare and so affliction in 
Taurus may be taken along with the other indications. 


In almost all cases Jupiter is found afflicted and it is but inevitable 
since with its rule over the Liver, the suprarenal and pancreas, it holds the 
main control of sugar metabolism. 


In the several charts given it will be noticed that Diabetes 
Mellitus occurs when : 


1. Jupiter is afflicted by Saturn, either by aspect or conjunction. 
2. Jupiter is in the constellation of Saturn. 

3. The Moon is afflicted by Saturn. 

4. Jupiter in Purvashadha constellation. 

5. Cancer sign is afflicted by Saturn. 

6 


Jupiter afflicted by Rahu and when Jupiter is in Rahu's constel 
lations. 


DIABETES 


Diabetics are more prone than normal persons to suffer from skin 
infections pulmonary tuberculosis, urinary infections, cataracts and 
various forms of degeneration of the arteries. 


Diabetics should have their chests X-rayed every year as a routine and 
‘pulmonary tuberculosis should always be remembered as a cause of 
Unexplained weight loss of obstacle to diabetic control. 


268 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Arteriosclerosis and obliterative arterial disease affect many arteries 
in Diabetics, including coronary and cerebral artery. Obliteration of the 
arteries in the legs can cause gangrene. The slightest trauma or injury to 
the feet should be avoided. Toe nails should be cut with great care as the 
slightest injury will result in infection. 


Eye complications that occur frequently in a diabetic are changes in 
refraction due to the change in the water balance in the body and opacity 
of the lens known as cataracts. Transient changes in refraction should not 
be treated immediately. The patient should first have his diabetes 
controlled effectively for four weeks, when the blurred vision, if caused 
by water imbalance may disappear by itself. 


Cataract is “more common in diabetics than in non-diabetics. 
Retinopathy with changes in the veins of the eye resulting in haemorrhage 
and rapid deterioration of vision occur in diabetics. They are also liable 
to suffer from glaucoma. 


Degeneration of the arteries can occur in the kidneys. This gives rise 
to nephropathy, a type of Nephritis. The nerves are also affected in 
diabetics. Severe burning pain in feet, at times intolerable, severe 
weakness of the legs, loss of sensation in the limbs, may occur due to 
neuro -pathy or nerve disorders. Strict treatment for diabetes and added 


vitamins such as BI will be beneficial. Vitamin BI helps all types of 
neuritis. 


Arthritis common in diabetics should be treated with analgestics and 
passive exercises. Diathermy will also be helpful. 


Since Diabetes is a disease of middle and old age, other complications 
like arteriosclerosis often occur. Decrease in blood circulation in legs 
give rise to repeated infections in the form of ulcers, gangrene, etc and 
healing is delayed. These complications appear more frequently in 
diabetes which has been neglected for a long period. 


Peripheral neuritis can occur in diabetics. The symptoms are pain in 
the legs, sensation of numbness and tingling in the limb. Ulcers can result 
from peripheral neuropathy. In cases where diabetes is poorly controlled 
this trouble occurs more often than in a well-controlled cese. Proper 
dietary control and the correct dosage of drags will prevent a number of 


cases from developing neuritis. Vitamin B-1 and B-12 may be some use 
in few cases. 


Diabetics must avoid cortisons. The various conditions-like asthma, 
eczema allergic disorders, shock, drug reactions, rheumatoid arthritis, 


Diseases of Metabolism 269 


nephritis, ulcerative colitis and certain ear and nose infections-Cortisone 
and its allied drags are used. But in certain diseases Cortisone should not 
be taken. They cause peptic ulcer, diabetes renal failure and hypertension. 


Now-a-days Cortisone is widely used Complications are not so 
common. Some of the known complications of cortesone therapy are 
vomiting and pain in the abdomen. Also it can increase blood sugar level. 
Increase in weight is noticed because of disturbance in the fluid balance. 


More serious side effects are hirsutism, rounding ofthe face and muscular 
weakness. 


While examining the charts for tracing the disease, the following are 
few combinations denoting the disease. 


1. Venus and Jupiter having connections of malefic planets while 
a malefic occupies the 8th bouse. 


2. Moon and Jupiter with malefic connections when a malefic is 
posited in the 8th. 


3. Venus and Jupiter having association and aspects of malefic 
when the Ascendant is occupied by a malefic. 


4. Venus with a malefic in 8th with aspects of a malefic. 


5. Aspects of malefics on Lagna, the lord of Lagna in his depression 
or inimical sign and Venus in the 8th house. 
In this combination instead of actual placement of Venus in the 8th 
house, his full aspect on the 8th bhava gives rise to Diabetes. 


6. Rahu and the lord of the 8th house posited in the 8th bhava or in 
a Trikona cause diabetes. 


7. Mercury is a sign of Jupiter aspected by Mars gives rise to the 
disease. 


8. Venus in the 2nd house when the lord of the Ascendant is posited 
in the 6th bhava coinciding with his debilitation sign and when the 
rising sign is subjected to malefic aspects brings about this disease. 


ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS OF DIABETES 


This is a disease or metabolism especially of the carbohydrates in 
which the normal utilization of carbohydrate is impaired with increase in 
the sugar content of the blood and glycosuria. The increased thirst is a 
prominent feature in this disease. Kanya rashi and sixth house rale this 
disease. Sun being karaka for all stomach and bowels disease, has also his 


270 Astrology and Diagnosis 


ruling over the same. Venus, Moon and Jupiter or Moon and Jupiter 
together with affliction of Kanya rashi, sixth house, lord of sixth house 
and Sun give rise to diabetes. When afflicted Venus and Jupiter or Moon 
and Jupiter join the above houses and planets or be related and there be 
also some relation with disease inflicting planet or house, similar disease 
is predicted. Eighth house also rules over this disease. While judging this 
disease, the strength of the house and its relation with the combination of 
disease are also to be considered. 


Some combinations for the disease are :- 


_ 


- When strong malefic be in 8th house, and Venus and Jupiter be 
afflicted. 


2. When strong malefic be in 8th house and Moon and Jupiter also 
be afflicted. 


3. When strong malefic be in lagna, and Jupiter and Venus be 
afflicted. 


4. When strong malefic be in lagna, and Jupiter and Moon also be 
afflicted. 


5. When malefic Venus be in lagna or be in dusthana. 


6. If Venus be in 8th house and malefics aspect over the 8th house 
and Venus be also afflicted by malefic. 


This is a case of Diabetes. 

1. 6th house is afflicted by malefic 
aspect and 6th lord is in the 8th 
house with malefic Ketu. 

2. 8th house is afflicted and 8th lord 
is also afflicted. 
3. Strong Malefic Satum in Lagna. 


iow 4. Sun is afflictedby aspect of Satum 


and is with lord of 8th house. 


5. Jupiter, karaka, is in Virgo sign and aspected by Mars from the 8th. 
Mars is lord of the 6th. Moon another karaka is in Pisces a sensitive sign. 


Diseases of Metabolism 271 
6. Sixth houses from Moon and Sun are afflicted. 


7. Virgo and Scorpio signs are 6th and 8th houses from natural 
zodiac and are afflicted by malefics. 


8. Venus is in dusthana from Lagna and Moon. 


Male bom 0n24-1- 1904. This is a 

case of Diabetes Mellitus. He is 

suffering from piles, Rheumatic 

pains and heart weak. In this horo- 
scope Saturn is afflicting Jupiter, 
Moon. Rahu is also afflicting Jupi- 
ter and the Moon. 


Female horoscope. She was diag- 
nosed Diabetes Mellitus. Her As- 
cendant being Pisces, the ruler of 
the Pagna is Jupiter is in 5th house. 
Jupiter is being squared by Saturn 
who is in the 8th from Chandra 
Lagna. She died of Acidosis. The 


Sun is conjoined with Ketu in the 
7th from Lagna and 6th from the 
Moon. 


The native was bom on 27-9- 
1911, 


The person was diagnosed Dia- 
betes Mellitus. In this horoscope 
the Moonand Jupiterare in-mutual 
aspect to Saturn. Besides Rahu is 
aspecting Jupiter. 


272 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Chart belongs to a vegetarian 
Engineer who was diagnosed Dia- 
betes Mellitus. In this horoscope 
the Moon is afflicted by Saturn. 
Saturn is in Vishakha asterism 
whose lord is Jupiter. 


Male. The native is vegetarian. 


He has a weakheart. Besides he 
was diagnosed Diabeted. In this 
horoscope Saturn is afflicting the 
Moon and Jupiter as well. Jupiter is 
with Rahu in the sixth house. 


6 
MER 
RAHU 
VEN JUP. 


is in conjunction with Saturn and 
Satum is aspecting the Moon. 


Female born on Jan. 29th 1902. 
She was diagnosed Diabetes 
Mellitus. In this horoscope Jupiter 


XX 


CHAPTER 17 
TUMOURS, BOILS, CARBUNCLES, ABSCESS ETC. 


ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS 


Watery signs rule these diseases. Mars is karaka for all Tumours, boils 
abscesses etc. Affliction of Rahu also produces the same. As poisoning 
of the blood is the main cause for these diseases, it will be seen that watery 
signs are afflicted in horoscope of a person suffering from these diseases 
4th, 6th and 12th houses, their lords also role the blood and strength and 
position of these houses are also to be taken into consideration while 
judging these diseases. When the above houses and planets be afflicted 
or be conjoined with malefics and make any relation with sixth house or 
ford of 6th house or with any disease-inflicting house or planet, they give 
tise to diseases like Tumours, boils, carbuncles, abscesses, etc. 


Some of the combinations for these diseases are as under:- 


1. Malefic sixth lord in Lagna, 8th, 10th house causes, tumours, 
carbuncles. 


2. Afflicted and malefic Mars causes similar diseases. 


3. Rahu in 8th house conjoined with or aspected by malefic causes heat 
generating diseases. 


4. Saturn in 8th house and Mars in the 7th house give rise to Tumours, 
Boils etc. 


5. Lord of Lagna and sixth house in one house conjoined with Mars 
cause similar diseases. 


6. Sun, Moon and Mars in the sixth house give rise to deep red spotted 
Boils. 


7. Sixth Lord in Lagna with Mars causes Boils, Tumours, etc. 


8. Mars in opposition to Sun, and one being in Ist, 2nd, 7th or 8th house 
produce similar diseases. 


274 Astrology and Diagnosis 


9. Mars and Saturn in sixth or twelfth house without benefic aspect or 
conjunction case similar diseases. 


10. Saturn im 8th house aspected by Mars causes similar diseases. 


11.Mars in Scorpio Ascendant and unaspected by benefic causes 
Carbuncles, abscesses etc. 


12. Ketu and Saturn in 4th house in Scorpio Navamsa causes similar 
disease. 


13. Saturnand Ketu in 6th, 7th or 12th house-cause similar diseases. 
14. Malefic Mars in sixth house causes heat generating disease. 


15. Saturn in Lagna aspected by or conjoined with malefic causes 
boils, Carbuncle etc. 


16. When Lord of Lagna be in Leo Navamsa afflicted by malefic it 
causes virulent tumours, boils etc. 


17. Moon, inbetween two malefics and Satum in 7th house give rise 
to boils, abscesses etc. 


ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS 


Mercury roles Ulcers. Mars is ruler of all wounds and cuts. Fiery 
houses Aries, Leo, Sagittarius signs and fiery planets Sun and Mars rule 
diseases from Burns. When these houses and planets are afflicted, badly 
placed or conjoined with evil lords and in some way related with disease- 
inflicting house or planet, give rise to the diseases of Burns. Afflicted 
Mercury when related with a disease-inflicting house or planet, give rise 
to wounds and cuts. When Rahu or Ketu joins any of the above 
combinations, it produces lingering and irrecoverable disease. When 
Saturnjoins then, produces pain with disease. The place affected by the 
disease is suggested by the house or sign afflicted or by the afflicted or 
badly placed planet. 


When malefics like Saturn, Ketu, Mars and the Sunpass over Mars, 
Mercury, Sun etc. they give rise to diseases ruled by them provided an 
affliction in similar was present in the natal horoscope. When malefics 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 275 


pass through fiery houses, they also give rise to danger from fire, provided 
such fiery house is afflicted in natal chart. 


1.Malefic Mercury if afflicted by malefic. 

2.Rahu in the 8th house aspected by a malefic. 

3. Saturn in Lagna and weak Moon with Rahu and Sun. 

4, Satum in 2nd house, Moon in 4th house and Mars in the 10th . 
5. Mars and Ketu in the 8th house aspected by malefic. 

6. Mars in the 8th house aspected malefic and Ketu in 2nd. 

7. 6th lord and malefic in 10th without benefic aspect. 

8. 6th lord in Lagna or in 6th house with malefic. 

9. Sixth lord in 6th house with Rahu or Ketu. 

10. Moon in 6th house aspected by a malefic. 

11. Saturn, Mars and Rahu in a house. 

12. Mars and Venus in 9th house or in 10th aspected by malefic. 
13. Rahu with a strong malefic in Sth house. ~ 


14, Mars and Sun in opposition, one being any of Lagna, 2nd, 7th or 
8th house. 


15. Sixth lord with Mars in Lagna. 

16. Saturn in 8th house aspected by Mars. 

17. Mars, Jupiter and Saturn in Lagna. 

18. Mercury in its own house aspected by Mars. 


19. Waning Moon in the 8th house with Rahu, Saturn or Mars. 


276 Astrology and Diagnosis 
The following are the combinations for WOUNDS AND CUTS. 
1.A malefic Mars afflicted by a malefic. 

2. Mars and 6th lord in Lagna. 

3. Malefic Mars in 8th house or 12th house. 

4. Saturn, Mars and Rahu in one house. 

5. Sixth lord with Mars in Lagna. 

6. Mars, Jupiter and Saturn in Lagna. 

7. Moon in 2nd, Mars in 4th and Sun in the 10 house. 


8.Sun in the 4th, Saturn in 8th and Moon in 10th house without 
strength. 


9. Mars and Moon in 6th house. 

10. Lords of Lagna and 8th house with Saturn, Rahu or Ketu. 

11. Lord of Lagna, 4th and 8th house in one house. 

12. Sun and Mars in 3rd house cause wound in head. 

The following combinations are for BURNS. 

1. Sun and Mars in Ist, 2nd, 7th or 8th house aspected by malefic. 
2. Waning Moon in 8th house with Rahu, Saturn or Mars. 

3. Moon in house of Saturn hemmed in between malefics. 


4, Waning Moon aspected by a strong Mars and also Saturninthe 8th 
house. 


HOROSCOPES 


This is a case of malignant growth of bones in the lower part of the 
Spinal cord and in the region of groins. 


1. Rahu is afflicting’seventh house, a house ruling spinal cord, lord 
of seventh house, Sun, Karaka for Lagna, and also karaka for bones, 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 277 


Mercury, karaka for spinal cord 
and also Mars lord of lagna. Sev- 
enth house also rules groins. Rahu 
is further afflictingseventh houses 
from Sun and Moon, ruling spi- 
nal cord and groins. 


2. Ketu is in seventh house afflicted 
by Saturn, suggesting pains. 


3. 2nd and 10th houses from Lagna 

and Sun, and also 2nd, 6th and 
10th houses fromMoon are afflicted. Of lords of 2nd, 6th and 10th houses 
from Lagna, Sun and Moon, some are afflicted and others are badly 
situated. Taurus sign ruling Bone is also afflicted heavily. 


> 


SOx 
or 


4. Libra sign ruling spinal cord and groins, is afflicted by malefic 
Saturn. Mercury, Karaka for same is with sixth lord. 


Thus we find the houses and planets ruling Spinal cord and groins are 
afflicted. They are strongly afflicted by Rahu suggesting malignant 
growth. 


This is a case of virulent Tumours 
NO and Boils. The person underwent an 
MER operation and died ultimately. 
MOON 
1. Mars is between malefics, is inthe 
house of a malefic and is aspected 
by malefic Satum and Rahu. 


2. Mars and Saturnare in opposition. 

One is 8th lord and is inthe 8th 

house. Mars is in 2nd house aspec- 

aspected malefic Saturn from 8th 

house and also aspected by Rahu from Lagna. Saturnis in the 8th house 
aspected by Mars. 


3. All the watery signs are afflicted by malefics. 


4. Lagna and its lord is afflicted. Mars is heavily afflicted. 


2 


~— 
fore) 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


These justify the attack from such diseases. Opposition of Mars and 
Saturn, and Saturn being the 8th lord justify an operation and death by an 
operation. 


The person also suffered from Venereal disease. Venus is in Scorpio 
sign which is the house of Mars and is aspected by Mars. Further, Venus 
is aspected by Saturn. Venus, 8th house, 8th lord, Scorpio sign etc. are 
afflicted suggesting venereal disease. 


This is a case of big cut and wound 

in forehead resulted from an acci- 

dent. 

1. Mars is in the 8th house. Mercury 
is in its own house aspected by 


Marts. 
2. Satum, 6th lord and malefic, is in 
Aries sign ruling head in the 8th 
Yan house. Further, Mars, karaka, for 
head is in the 8th house. 


Lagna and lord of Lagna are free from afflictionbutare conjoined with 
8th lord therefrom. Aries sign and Mars both rule the head. Mars is further 
lord of the 4th house, ruler of vehicles. Venus, karaka for vehicles, is in 
opposition to Mars being debilitated and is also aspected by Rahu. 


All these justify a vehicular accident and a wound and cut in the head. 


This is the horoscope of a person 
suffering from Pituitary Gland 


Tumour. 
&. ‘— 1. Lagna is afflicted by aspect of a 


malefic. 


2. Aries sign is afflicted by aspect of 
a malefic. 


3. Lord of Lagna is conjoined with 
malefic sixth lord. 


4. Sunis in the sixth house hemmed between malefics and is aspected 
by malefic. 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 279 


5. Mars is in the eighth house. 


6. Venus is afflicted by conjunction of malefic, hemmed between 
malefics and is also conjoined with sixth lord. 


7. Venus is conjoined with lord of Lagna and is afflicted by conjunc- 
tion and aspect of malefics. 


8. Lagna is aspected by sixth lord. 
9. Moon is weak, afflicted and hemmed between malefics. 


Thus we find Lagna, Lord of Lagna, Aries sign, Sun Mars Venus are 
all afflicted and situated in evil houses, related with sixth house and sixth 
lord and thus are capable of giving rise to diseases conceming pituitary 
glands. 


DISEASES OF BONES 


TUBERCULOSIS OF BONES. 


Bones are ruled by Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn signs and also by 
second, sixth and tenth house. Saturn is karaka for the same. These 
houses, lords of second, sixth and tenth houses and Saturn work for all 
bone diseases. Rahu is the planet who is responsible for causing Tuber- 
culosis of Bones. When Rahu is capable of causing tubercular disease in 
a horoscope and also at the same time afflicts the houses and the planets 
ruling bones or be in any way related with them and is connected with 
disease inflicting planet it may give rise to Tuberculosis of bones. The 
place of the disease in the body will depend where Rahu is aspecting 
malefically or the house with lord of which house is conjoined orthe place 
ruled by the planet as karaka with whom Rahu is associated. When such 
conjunction or aspect inany way connects the second house orthe second 
lord, it may give rise to disease in the right leg. If it be with the twelfth 
lord, the effectmay be in the left leg. When Rahu be in any was connected 
with third house or lord of the third house, it will affect the right hand or 
right collarbone; when it connects eleventh house or lord of theeleventh 
house it will be left hand or left collarbone. Whether the same will be hand 
or collarbone will depend on Karaka planet. When fourth house or its lord 
be related the disease will be of ribs in the right side of the chest and if 
it be tenth house or tenth lord, the disease will be in the left side and so 
on. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 
OTHER DISEASES CONCERNING BONES AND MARROW 


Bones may be attacked from malignant growth, pains, deformities, 
enlargement brittle, dislocations etc. 


The second, sixth and the tenth house, Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn 
signs and Saturn govern all diseases connected with bones. Affliction of 
the above signs and houses, Karaka Saturn and affliction of lords of 
second, sixth and tenth houses and relation of them with disease inflicting 
house or planet give rise to the disease of bones. Rahu is responsible for 
all malignant growth. When Rahu joins the above houses and planets or 
aspects them or in any way afflicts them and be related with diseases 
producing house or planet, it gives rise to malignant growth of bones. 
Ketu and Saturn are responsible for all pains. when any of them 
malefically joins or aspects the above combinations and be in a position 
to produce disease, they may give rise to pains in bones. 


There are many kinds of diseases connecting spinal cord such as 
affection of blood vessels, congestion, tumours of thecord, thrombosis, 
haemorrhage into spinal cord, etc. Mercury roles the spinal system along 
with Libra sign and seventh house, its lord and also affliction of Mercury, 
Libra sign and seventh house, its lord and also affliction of houses and 
planets ruling bones, and their inter-relation and also relation with disease 
afflicting house or planet may give rise to diseases in spinal cord. The 
nature of the disease will depend on the planet or planets afflicting or 
conjoining them. 


Marrow is soft fatty substance in the cavities of bones. This is also 
governed by the houses ruling bones. Mars is the karaka planet for the 
same. Affliction of Taurus, Virgo Capricorn signs, second, sixth, tenth 
houses and their lords and also affliction of Karaka Mars and a relation 
of these houses and planets with disease producing planet or house give 
rise to diseases of marrow. Watery signs also take part in this disease and 
arelation of the houses and planets ruling marrow with watery signs that 
is Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces signs is essential to give rise to the diseases 
concerning marrow. 


FRACTURE OF BONES 


Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn signs rule the bone. Second, sixth and 
tenth houses from Lagna Moon etc are the places wherefrom the position. 
Strength and growth of bones are to be judged. Saturn is Karaka for all 


Tumours, Boils, etc 281 


bones. When Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn rashis, second, sixth and tenth 
house their lords and Saturn is afflicted, badly placed, weak etc. in a 
horoscope, one suffers from fractures and diseases of bones. 


Sun, Mars and Saturn are also responsible for all difficult fractures. 
When houses ruling bones, their lords and Karaka planets joinorbe in any 
way related with Mars, Sun or Mercury, give rise to fractures of bones. 
Third house roles the hands and collar bones. Third house also rules the 
right hand, Mars is for Neck and Saturn is Karaka for limbs. When the 
above houses, their lords and planets ruling them be afflicted or badly 
situated along with houses and planets ruling bones and be in any way 
related with diseases inflicting house or planet, one suffers from fractures 
in hands and collar bones. If the afflicted houses be third house, Gemini 
sign and also Saturn be afflicted, the fracture, will be in the right hand, 
while affliction of third house, Gemini sign and Mars will inflict fracture 
of collar bone in right side. When it is eleventh house and Aquarius sign, 
it will be either left hand or collar bone in left side. Taurus and second 
house rule the right leg and twelfth house and Pisces rule the left. Saturn 
is as we know, karaka for limbs. If the second house, Taurus sign, lord of 
second house and Saturn is afflicted the fracture of bone will be in the right 
leg, while affliction of Pisces sign, twelfth house lord of the twelfth house 
and Saturn will damage the left leg. Rahu is karaka for feet. When Rahu 
is also afflicted, the fracture will be in the feet. 


Capricorn sign rules knee and Aquarius sign rules shanks. Further 
Cancer sign rules the right knee and Capricorn roles the left knee. And 
Gemini rules the right shank and Aquarius sign roles the rules the left 
shank. When these houses are afflicted along with houses and planets 
ruling legs, the fracture will be in that part of the body ruled by the houses 
afflicted. Fourth house-rules the ribs. Ribs are the curved bones reaching 
fromspine round the upper part of the body. Saturn is karaka for ribs. Sun 
is also another karaka for ribs. Further fourth house roles the right part 
along with Cancer sign and tenth house roles the left part along with 
Capricorn sign. When Cancer sign and Capricorn signs, fourth and tenth 
houses, their lords and karaka Saturn and the Sun be weak, badly placed 
be conjomed with malefics and lords of evil houses, and be evil houses 
and be in any way related with disease inflicting house or planet and also 
the houses and planets ruling bones be afflicted and related with the 
above, they result into fracture of rib bones. 


Seventh house roles the back side of the body. Mercury is the ruler of 
spinal cord. When seventh house, lord of the 7th house, Mercury and the 


282 Astrology and Diagnosis 

houses and planets ruling bones be afflicted, badly situated, conjoined 
with malefics and evil lords, they may give rise to breaking of spines. As 
Libra sign is the seventh house, of the natural zodiac, it also rules the 
spinal cords and its strength should also be taken into consideration. 
When a combination for fracture of bone is present im a horoscope, the 


affected portion of thebody is to be determined from the house and ruling 
planet afflicted and combined with the combination of fracture. 


There are many combinations for fractures of bones, some of them 
are as under :- 


1. Sun, Moon, Saturnand Mars in eighth house. 

2. Sun, Moon, Mars and Saturn in fifth and ninth house. 

3. Rahu, Saturn and Mercury in tenth house. 

4. Moon in Lagna, Saturn in fourth house and Mars in tenth house. 


5. Sun in Lagna, Saturn in the fifth house, Moon in eighth house and 
Mars in ninth house. 


6.Moon in Capricorn or Aquarius sign hemmed in between two 
malefics. 


7.Moon in second house, Mars in fourth house and Sunintenth house. 


8. Sun in fourth house, Saturn in eighth house and Moon in tenth 
house. 


& Saturn in second house, Moon in fourth house and Mars in tenth 
house. 


10. Mars and Moon in sixth house. 

11. Sun and Mars in third house aspected by Saturn. 

This is a case of compound fracture in right hand. 

1. Third house is conjomed with Sun, a malefic and also a karaka for 


fracture and is aspected by Rahu and also by malefic and sixth lord 
Satum, from sixth house. Third lord is with malefic Mars and 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 283 


Mercury, who are also karakas for 
fracture. 


2. Third house from Moon and third 
8 lord are afflicted. Third house from 
MER Sun is hemmed between malefics 
MARS and third lord is in dusthana from 
Sun, 


3. Saturn, karaka for limbs, is in 
dusthana. 


4. Taurus and Capricorn signs ruling bones are afflicted. Another sign 
ruling bones, that is Virgo is conjoined with 8th lords. Capricorn 
sign is also conjoined with sixth lord. Sixth and tenth houses ruling 
bones are afflicted. 2nd house is conjoined with 8th lord. Second 
and tenth lords are afflicted. Lord of 6th house is in dusthana. 


5. Sun Lord of Lagna karaka, who is also karaka for fracture, is weak 
and heavily afflicted. Lagna is also afflicted. 


6. Gemini sign ruling right hand is afflicted by Mars and Rahu. 


Thus we find houses and planets ruling hand and bones are afflicted 
in this horoscope. Gemini sign, third house, third lord from Moon and lord 
thereof are afflicted by Mars and Gemini sign, third house, lagna and Sun 
are afflicted by Rahu. These suggest a compound fracture of bone in right 
hand. 


This is a case of minor fracture. The 
person suffered from a minor frac- 
ture of his right foot. 


1. Rahu, karaka for feet, is in second 
house. 


2. Second lord Saturn is n the mutual 
aspect with Sun and Mercury, ruler 
of fracture. They are also 8th and 
6th lords. Saturn is further in Cap- 
ricorn sign, a house ruling bones 
pected by malefics and evil 
lords. are 


284 Astrology and Diagnosis 


3. Second house from Moon is conjomed with Mars, a karaka for 
bones. Second house is a Virgo sign, which is also ruler of bones. 
Further it is the disease inflicting house of natural zodiac. Second 
house from Lagna, Aquarius sign, which is ruler of bones, right leg 
and feet is afflicted by malefic conjunction. 


4. Sixth and tenth houses ruling bones are afflicted. Pisces sign ruling 
feet is also afflicted by malefics aspects. Second house of the Sun 
is also afflicted. 


Here, in this case, the planets mainly responsible for fracture is 
Mercury, as it (beingsixth lord) itis aspecting 2ndlord Satum, is afflicting 
karaka Sunby conjunction, itself being 2nd lord from Moon is in dusthana 
from Moon afflicting 2nd lord from Sun by conjunction etc. Mercury 
suggests minor fractures and that is why the person suffered froma minor 
fracture. He met with fracture owing to a slip and fall in bathroom. Here 
Mercury is in water sign and Saturnruler of 2nd house, is in a earthy (and 
also watery sign) sign and their joint result justified a slip and fall m 
bathroom. 


PHYSICAL DEFORMITIES 


Lagna rules the body, Sunis Karaka forthe same. Aries sign is the seat 
in the natural zodiac ruling the body. Affliction to Aries sign, Lagna, Lord, 
of Lagna and Sunby malefic aspect and conjunction or affliction to these 
houses by lord of dusthana or situation of the planets rulmg body in 
dusthana, all these give rise to physical deformities. Saturn and Ketu are 
two major planets affliction of which are mainly responsible for deformi- 
ties. Second, sixth, tenth houses and Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn signs role 
flesh and bones. Affliction of these houses and lords of second, sixth and 
tenth houses also produce deformities. Sagittarius is the seat of limbs in 
the natural zodiac and ninth house also rules the same. When Sagittarius, 
ninth house and its lord are afflicted, they also work for deformities. 
Saturn is Karaka for Limbs and its affliction is also not desirable. When 
the houses and planets ruling the body, limbs and bones in any way related 
with diseases inflicting house or planet the deformities come as after- 
effect of a disease. Second house and Taurus sign roles the right hand and 
Aquarius sign and 11th house rule the left hand and by relation of them 
with combinations of deformities may produce deformity in that hand 
ruled by affected houses and planet. 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 285 


A malefic Saturn in Lagna, other than Taurus, Libra, Capricorn and 
Aquarius Lagna is always bad, as it may bring deformities. When Lagna 
is afflicted, if at the same time Moon also be afflicted and be inthe twelfth 
house, they may produce defect in limbs. When Saturnbe inthe 7th house, 
if Mars be without strength or be afflicted by conjunction Rahu, there may 
be defect in limbs. When Saturnis heavily afflictedand is situated in the 
twelfth house it may also produce deformities. Saturn in second house, 
Mars in seventh house and Moon in the tenth house from Lagna or from 
radical Sun may produce deformities due to after effects of diseases. 
When lord of Lagna is inthe dusthana and Lagna is conjoined with Rahu 
or Ketu, they may also produce deformities due to diseases. 


Third house rules the bodily growth. Gemini sign is seat of the same 
in natural zodiac. Mars rules vigour and energy and works for building 
our body. When Gemini sign, third house and the third lord and Lagna be 
afflicted and be connected with short planets, or when the house ruling 
growth be short-short signs, there may be ill growth. When these houses 
are joined with longplanets orthey themselves are long houses, there may 
be abnormal growth. Aries, Taurus and Aquarius signs are short signs. 
Leo, Virgo and Scorpio are long signs. Others are evensigns.Lagna rules 
overhead, second house rules the face, third house roles the neckand arms 
so on. The growth of thepart ruled by the house will depend on the nature 
of thehouse, whether it is long, short or even and also on the nature of the 
planets occupying and aspecting, whether they are short or long. 


As Mars is an important planet in developing our body, his strength, 
position, etc. and third house are also to be considered. Sun is also an 
important planet, being Lagna, Karaka and his strength position etc. are 
also to be taken into consideration. 


HOROSCOPE 


This is a case of physical deformi- 
7 ties. The person has defect in the 
MARS hands. The hands are crippled, of 


Be which the right one is more defec- 

tive. 

1, Lagna is afflicted by malefic Sat- 
um. Further it is conjoined with 
malefic Sun and aspected by pow- 
erful Rahu. Lord of Lagna Mer- 
cury is retrograde and is hemmed 
between malefics. 


Vex 


ROS 


286 Astrology and Diagnosis 


2. Sun, ruler of body, is afflicted by conjunction of Saturn and is 
aspected by Rahu. 


3. Sagittarius sign ruling limbs, is afflicted by aspects of malefics. 
Saturn, Karaka for limbs, is also afflicted by conjunction and 
aspects of malefics. 


4. Gemini and Aquarius signs, third and eleventh houses of natural 
zodiac ruling hands arc also afflicted by malefics. 


5. Third and eleventh houses from Lagna, Sun and Moonare afflicted. 
Lords of third houses from Lagna, Sun, Moon are also afflicted. 


6. 10th house from Lagna is also afflicted heavily. 


Thus we find the reasons are present in the horoscope to produce 
deformities. A malefic Saturn in Lagna, other than Taurus, Libra, 
Capricorn and Aquarius Lagnas always causes deformities if Lagna is not 
well fortified. 


In this horoscope, third and eleventh lords from Lagna, Moon and Sun 
are not afflicted. Though both the hands are crippled, the left one is less 
defective. The reasons we find are, the eleventh lords are not afflicted. 


LOSS OF LIMBS 


Sagittarius sign is the seat of limbs in natural zodiac. Ninth house rules 
the same. Satum is karaka for Limbs. Affliction of Sagittarius sign, ninth 
house, lord of ninth house and Saturn, their conjunction with malefics, 
situation in evil houses, aspects of malefics over themand by relation with 
disease inflicting house or planet, all these are responsible for affection 
of the limbs. If Saturn along with the lord ofthe ninth house be in dusthana 
and be also conjomed with any planet, it suggests loss of limb ruled by 
the affected house or conjoining planet. Lagna, lord of Lagna, the Sun, 
Karaka for Lagna, have also their parts in affecting the limbs. While they 
are afflicted, they may give rise to malefic effect provided houses and 
planets ruling limbs are also affected. Aries sign, first house of natural 
zodiac also rules the same. 


Second house and Taurus sign rule the right leg. When conjoming 
planet be lord of second house, or the affected house be second house, or 
Taurus sign, it may affect the rightleg. Whes twelfth house, its lord or 


Tumours, Boils etc. 287 


Pisces sign be conjoined, it damages the left leg. Third house and Gemini 
sign rule the right hand, while eleventh house and Aquarius rule the sign 
tule left one. When Gemini sign, third house, or lord of thethird house 
be affected, it damages the right hand and while eleventh house, its lord 
or Aquarius sign be affected, it damages the left hand. Mars is karaka for 
accidents. When malefic Mars joins them or aspects them, the loss of limb 
is due to accident. When a disease inflicting house or planet or Saturn be 
related with them, the loss is a after effect of a disease. 


Limbs may also be affected by Paralysis and other diseases 


1. Saturn in 9th house and Jupiter in 3rd house cause amputation of 
hands. 


2. Saturn and Jupiter in 8th and 12th houses cause amputation of 
hands. 


3. Saturn in Lagna, Rahu in seventh house, Venus m Virgo sign and 
waning Moon in the seventh house cause amputation of hand and 
foot. 


4, Saturn, SunandMoonin Lagna and Mars inthe seventh house cause 
loss of limbs due to accident through machine. 


5. Saturn in 7th and Mars with Rahu or without strength causes defect 
in limbs. 


6. Sun in 2nd house, Mars in 7th house and Moon in the 10th house 
cause loss of limbs. 


7.Moon in the 12th house afflicted by a malefic and Lagna afflicted 
by a malefic and Lagna afflicted cause defect in the limbs. 


SS 


DOX 


This is a case of loss of limbs. The 
native has lost his left leg by ampu- 
tation. 


1. Sagittarius sign ruling limbs is 
afflicted by strong malefic Rahu. 
9th lord Mercury is also afflicted 
by Rahu and 9th lord is in dusthana 
from Lagna. Rahu is further af 
flicting 9th house from Moon. 


288 Astrology and Diagnosis 


2. Saturn, Karaka forlimb and also lord of Lagna is weak, debilitated 
and heavily afflicted by malefics. Saturn is also conjoined with 
Rahu, Sun, Lagna Karaka, is hemmed in between malefics. Aries 
sign is heavily afflicted by conjunction of Saturn and Rahu. 


3. 12th house from Lagna ruling left leg is conjoined with 6th lord 
Mercury and is also afflicted by aspect of Rahu. !2th lord Jupiter is 
conjoined with Ketu and Mars and is aspected by Saturn and Rahu. 
12th house from Moon is conjoined with sixth lord from Moon, is 
hemmed between malefics and 12th lord Mars is conjoined with 
Ketu and aspected by Saturn and Rahu. 12th house from Sun is 
conjoined with Mars, sixth lord from Sun and is also conjoined with 
Ketu. Further it is aspected by Saturn and Rahu from the sixth house. 
12th lord Venus is hemmed between malefics. 


4. 9th house of natural zodiac is conjoined with sixth lord of natural 
zodiac. Further the house is !2th from Lagna. Taurus sign ruling 
legs is afflicted by aspect of Rahu. Ninth lords from Sun and Moon 
are also afflicted. 


Thus it is seen houses and planets ruling limbs and left leg a re afflicted 
heavily, suggesting loss of left leg by amputation. 


RHEUMATIC DISEASES. 


Rheumatic diseases are of various natures, such as Arthritis, Rheu- 
matic nodules, Gouts etc. The etiology of Rheumatoid arthritis is 
unknown. In diagnosis other causes of arthritis must first be excluded. 
Among these are Pyogenis and tuberculous arthritis, other collagen 
diseases especially systemio lupus erythematosus Leukaemia must be 
borne in mind. Arthritis indistinguishable from the usual rheumatoid 
disease is seen with patients with ulcerative colitis and regional enteritis. 
Villous synovitis and allergic intermittent arthritis are probably related 
syndrome. 


There is no specific therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. Salycylates 
provide the most satisfactory medication for analgesia and anti-inflam- 
matory effect. 


Fever, inflammation, pain and stiffness are usually alleviated. The 
treatment can be carried on for years. Blood levels of 20 to 25 mg per 100 
ml: should be maintained. 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 289 


There is no uniformity of opinion about the therapeutic efficacy if 
corticosteroids. But they help in suppressing symptoms and should be 
discontinued when the desired result is achieved. 


In the normal adult male, the right testis is situated about one 
centimetre higher than the left in the scrotum. Pain and Swellings in the 
testis or epididymes is commonly due to trauma, filarial tubercu'osis, 
venereal and nonspecific infections, tumours of thetestis or may even be 
secondary to renal diseases. A careful examination followed by labora- 
tory investigations will reveal the cause. Any septic focus in the body 
should be looked for and eradicated. 


Decrease of the wind in the body causes rheumatic diseases. Wher 
windy planets Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn are weak, combusted, 
afflicted, badly situated, conjoined with lord of Dusthana and are also in 
some way related with 6th house, lord of 6th house etc, they give rise to 
rheumatic diseases. If lord of Lagna be in Navamsa of Cancer, it causes 
the similar diseases. Saturnis Karaka for Gouts. Ketu also rules over the 
windy diseases. 


Ashwini, Aridra, Punervasu, Uttara-phalguni, Hasta, Jyesthta, Moola, 
Satbhisha and Purva Bhadrapada stars rule over Wind (VATA) and when 
Lagna or rashi falls m any of the above stars and the above stars be 
afflicted they give rise to wimdy diseases. Third house rules over the 
rheumatic diseases. 


All the windy planets Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn alsorole over 
the same. Gemini sign also works in this disease. When Gemini sign, 3rd 
house, lord of 3rd house and above planets be afflicted, be situated in 
dusthanas, be conjoined with lord of dusthanas or with malefic or be 
aspected by malefic and be in some way related with disease-inflicting 
house or planet, they give rise to windy diseases. 
When any of the above karaka planets being afflicted and being malefic 
joins windy planets, their house, lord of third house, Gemini sign ete. and 
also be associated with or afflicted by Saturn, Rahu or Ketu, they give rise 
to above diseases. 


Some combinations for rheumatic diseases are: 

1. Sun in Cancer aspected by Saturn. 

2. Saturn in Lagna and Mars in the 5th, 7th or 9th house. 
3.Weak Moon and Satumin 12th house. 


290 Astrology and Diagnosis 


4, Saturn in Sagittarius or Pisces sign aspected by Mars. 
5. Sun, Moon and Saturn in Lagna. 

6. Jupiter in Lagna and Saturn in 7th house. 

7.Sun, Moon and Mars in Lagna. 

8. Mars in tenth house aspected by Saturn. 


9. Moon with malefic in Lagna, Mars in the 6th or 8th house with 
Saturn. 


10. Second Lord, Saturn and a malefic in one house. 
11.Moon and Saturn in 6th house. 

12. Venus in 8th house aspected by malefic. 

13. Ketu in Lagna afflicted. 

14. Lord of Lagna in Lagna, and Saturn in 6th house. 

15. Sixth Lord in Lagna with Rahu or Ketu. 

16. Moon in 10th, Mars in 7th and Saturn in the 2nd house. 
17. Weak Jupiter and weak lord of 2nd house in 2nd house. 


18. Lord of Lagna and lord of 6th house with depressed Saturn in one 
house. 


19. Lord of Lagna in Sagittarius Navamsa afflicted by malefic. 

20.Saturn and Rahu in third house affect hands. 

21, Saturn and Rahu in second house affect legs. 
RHEUMATISM 


Afflicted Saturn and Moon are the main planets to be studied for 
indications of this disease, while Mars, Jupiter, Venus also, when ill- 
placed, aid to produce this ailment. 


1. Saturn in the 6th or 8th bhava shows Rheumatic trouble. 


2. Saturn in the Ascendant when Moon aspected by Mars occupies the 
Ascendant, sixth or eighth bhava gives rise to Rheumatic ailments 
in the blood. 


Tumours, Boils, etc 291 


3 Lord of the Ascendant posited in the Ascendant and Saturn in the 
sixth bhava indicate Rheumatic attacks during 59th year. 


4, Saturn in combination with the lord of the Ascendant posited in the 
rising sign, in the 2nd or the 8th bhava produces Rheumatism when 
Moon is in combination with malefics. 


5. Moon with association and aspects of malefics and with a malefic 
Navamsa brings about Rheumatism when posited in the 6th bhava. 


6. Rheumatic troubles are caused by Venus and Mars falling in the 7th 
bhava with aspects of malefic. 


7. Sun in Cancer aspected by Saturn, and Mars aspected by Saturn are 
indicative of this malady. 


8. Mars in the 10th bhava with the full aspect of Saturn gives rise to 
acute gout and derangement of blood by air (Vata). 


9. Moon in the 8th bhava aspected by Mars in Cancer Navamsa 
produces Gout. 


10. Jupiter in the Ascendant and Saturn in the 7th give rheumatic 
attacks. 


11.Jupiter in the 8th bhava shows Rheumatic troubles. 


x 
Vilas 


aN 


conjoined with malefic. Saturn is also hemmed between malefics 
6th & 8th lords. 


This is a Female horoscope. She 
suffers from Rheumatic Pain. 


1. Windy planets Moon, Mercury 
and Venus are afflicted by male- 
fics. Moon is weak and hemmed 
between malefics and afflicted by 
Saturn. Mercury is conjoined with 
Sun and Rahu and is aspected by < 
6th lord. Venus is debilitated, f. 
hemmed between malefics and is) 


2. Lagna is conjoined with weak Moon, is aspected by windy planet 
Saturn and is hemmed between malefics and windy planets. 


3. Lord of Lagna, Venus, who is also a windy planet is conjoined with 


292 Astrology and Diagnosis 


malefic and is in Virgo sign. She is also hemmed between malefics. 


4. Ketu is in 8th house aspected by malefic Saturn and Sun and ig thus 
capable of producing pain in the body. 


5. Sagittarius sign-third houses from Lagna and Moon is aspected by , 
malefic Mars and Rahu. Third Lord Jupiter is also aspected by Rahu. 


Thus we find houses and planets ruling Rheumatic diseases are 
afflicted in this chart and are capable of giving rise to the disease. 


NEURO - FTBROSrnS 


Neurofibrositis can cause pain in the joints and may resemble 
peripheral Neutritis .Middle-aged persons are commonly affected, shoul- 


der being the frequent point of attack. Ulcers may be seen with wasting 
of muscles. 


Take rest and avoid all efforts which may increase pain. The treatment 
depends on the joints and nerves involved. Slicylates help relieve pain. 


Alcoholism diabetes can cause peripheral neutritis with symptoms of 
tingling and numbness in the extremities. In case of alcoholism, absten- 
tion from alcohol will help. 


In severe cases contractions and deformities may develop in the joints. 
In such cases physio-therapy may help. 


Injection of B-complex with high doses or Vitamin B-1 and B-12 are 
effective. They are given twice or thrice a week. 


THYROID GLANDS 


The essential function of the thyroid gland is to control the metabo- 
lism of the body. It also influences growth, sexual functions and the hear. 


The excessive secretion of thyroxine has wede effects. It causes 
increase inheart rate and palpitations. Increases sweating and tremors of 
the hand are seen. Eyeball become prominent. 


Excessive appetite, Diarrhoea, loss of weight and Weakness are 
known to occur. These cases require measuring of breast metabolic rate, 
and serum level of cholestrol. 


Mild cases respond to rest and sedative along with small doses of 
Lugols Iodine. In more severe cases operation is required, the usual one 
done is sub-total thyroidectomy. 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 293 


Radioactive iodine treatment is considered to be the best for 
thyrotoxicosis. 


ACNE VULGARIS 


Acne Vulgaris is an inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous glands 
produced by acclusion of the duct. Its clinical expression varies from 
simple pimples to severe middle-cystic lesions. The purpose of treatment 
is to improve the appearance of the person. Most Dermatologists agree 
upon dietary restriction of chocolate, nuts, sea-food, cold beaverages. 
There is little evidence that dietary restrictions of fat and carbohydrate 
favourably affectthe disease. Adequate minerals and vitamins are useful. 
Manipulation and the use of acclusive cosmetics contribute to acne 
process. Bowels should be cleared regularly. 


Local therapy includes cleansing with soap and water, the use of 
keratolytic and anti seborrhoetic agents such as a lotion containing 
sulphur and salicylic acid or resorcinol Ultra-violet irradiation at weekly 
interests is helpful. 


Systemic therapy includes dietary control, appropriate use of antibi- 
otics and psychiatric support. Oestrogenic hormone sometimes alters the 
course of resistant acne in the male but is contraindicated in the 
adolescents. 


ACCIDENTS 
HYDROPHOBIA 


Hydrophobia or Rabies is transmitted to man through dog-bite or Bats. 
The disease is spread by virus. The period between the dog-bite and the 
onset of the disease may be from ten days to a month. 


It usually starts with headache, fever, sleeplessness and pain in the 
limbs. Later mental excitement, spasm of the neck, mouth and pharynx 
muscles occur when trying to drink. In late stages weakness of limbs and 
coma develops. The dog can also suffer from rabies. Change of tempera- 
ture, irritation or fury are noticed. It starts biting that comes its way. Also 
the sound of barking will be changed. It dies of paralysis in a few days. 
Since Rabies is a fatal disease, prevention is important. If the dog lives 
ten days after bitting there is no danger of rabies. 


After the bite, bleeding should be allowed to continue. But tie a 
ligature above the wound. Local cleaning with potassium permanganate 
solution is advised. For the average cases anti-rabic vaccination (Scc 


294 Astrology and Diagnosis 


daily for 14 days) is enough. For relief as spasms, morphine or chloroform 
is given. 


Hydrophobia is ruled by the 2nd house and Saturn. When second 
house, lord of second house and Saturn are afflicted or when 2nd house 
be afflicted by a malefic along with afflicted Saturn, or when 2nd lord and 
Saturn be conjoined and be afflicted by malefics and any of the above 
combinations be in some way related with a disease-inflicting house or 
planet, they are liable to give rise to diseases of hydrophobia. 


A few combinations for the same are as under: 


1. When Saturn is in second house with a malefic and is related with 
the 6th house orwith lord of 6th house by conjunction or by aspect. 


2. When Saturnis in 2nd house and a malefic 6th lord or a malefic from 
6th house aspects the same. 


3. When Saturn is with 2nd lord and is in sixth house for aspected by 
malefic sixth lord. 


4. When Saturnis in 2nd house and a malefic aspects the 2nd house 
and also Saturn or 2nd house makes a relation with 6th house or with 
its lord. 


5. When Saturnbeing in the 2nd house be related with 6th lord by 
aspect or by conjunction. 


6. Saturnbeing aspected by 2nd lord is in some way related with sixth 
house or sixth lord. 


SoA 


This is a case of HY DROPHOBIA. 


Saturn is in 2nd house conjoined 
with malefic. Further 2nd house and 
Saturn are afflicted by malefics. Sat- 
urn being the lord of the6th house is 
afflicting the 2nd house. 


Second lord is in dusthana afflicted 
by conjunctionand aspect of malefic. 
2nd house of Moon is also heavily 
afflicted; lord thereof is also afflicted. 
Second house from sun is hemmed 
between malefics and lord thereof is 
also afflicted. 


ae 


> 


aes 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 295 


Virgo and Pisces signs, both sensitive, are afflicted. They are 2nd 
houses from Lagna and Moon respectively. 


Thus it is seen that the houses and planets ruling the disease Hydro- 
phobia in this chart are afflicted. 


ACCIDENTS 


While no general formula can be given, it is found that the natural 
malefics Rahu, Ketu, Saturn and Mars - play an important role in causing 
accidental deaths. Their disposition in certain sensitive areas covered by 
Vishghati tyajya Kala, ete are definite pointers to un-natural deaths. The 
benefics, when they chance to occupy the asterisms of Mars, Saturn and 
Rahu and related to the Ascendant, and other death-inflicting places 
become stealthy killers. 


Many of the traditional rules of astrology canbe successfully applied 
by suitable adaption. 


This aspect of predictive astrology requires a close study of theinner- 
most nature -hidden implications - ofbhavas in addition to theirordinary 
significance. Accidents from fire, water, poison, weapons and vehicles 
usually occur during the unfavourable dasha periods of planets when they 
come to occupy afflicted and unpleasant positions during their transitory 
movements. In these considerations the Ascendant and its Lord, the 6th, 
8th and 12th houses, the Moon and the Sun are to be examined. The 4th 
and 9th houses come into picture if they are malefic signs. The 2nd and 
3rd houses may also be looked into. The strength and characteristics of 
the malefics especially of Mars, Rahu, Ketu and of Mandi also call fora 
close scrutiny. 


It is worth re-itirating that the astrological principles have to be 
carefully adopted and adjusted to modern happenings during consider- 
ations of this aspect of life in particular . Mars in the 8th house, the 
weakness ofthe lord of the Ascendant and the positions of cruel planets 
are also to be meticulously studied. 


Accident means a mishap occuring without intent. Suppose one is 
walking ina public road and an automobile runs over him and he is killed. 
It is Accident. There was no intent either on the part of the victim or the 
driver of thecar. Suppose a man is murdered, here the killer has an intent; 
or commits suicide deliberately; we cannot call these accidents. In both 
the cases the intent is deliberate. Hence we are using the term "Accident" 
in its broadest sense to include cases of even deliberate intent. 


296 Astre logy and Diagnosis 


According to SARAVALL if Saturn, the Moon and Mars are in 2nd, 
4th and 10th death will be due to fall from vehicle. 


When Rahu and Ketu are involved, the source of death will be 
aberration of mind, artificial poisoning. Ketu is associated with acciden- 
tal death. Parashara & Samhita is definite that the second Drekkana of 
Sagittarius signifies death due to "poison or gun". 


TROUBLES FROM POISON 


Troubles frompoison are shown by the combination of thelords ofthe 
Lagna and the 2nd house with Saturn m an unpleasant house. Rahu im 2nd 
house in association with Mandi or aspected by Mandi causes poisoning 
by SNAKES. Rahu and the lord of the3rd house falling together in Lagna 
shows accidents from Serpents. 


The combination of the lord of the 3rd house and Jupiter in the 
Ascendant indicates accident from Quadrupeds. 


Accidents from animals are also shown by the Sun conjommg with 
Saturnposited in the 6th house which should not be his own or exaltation 
sign. In this case troubles will be from animals with horns. 


The Moon joining Saturn as above - accidents from horses, Mars- 
dogs, Mercury-cats and animals of that family. Jupiter-elephants; Venus 
cows, buffaloes; Rahu or Ketu - sheep, donkeys, camel. 


ACCIDENTS IN WATER 


These are indicated by the weak lord of the 4th bhava falling in a 
watery sign which should coincide with the debilitation or inimical sign 
of the planet posited therein. Accidents in water can also be stated when 
the lord of the sign occupied by the owner of the 4th house is in 
combination with the 4th lord or is aspected by him. 


Falling into wells, tanks or rivers is indicated by the combination of 
the lords of the Ascendant and of the4th bhava in the 4th bhava aspected 
fully by the lord of the 10th. Drowning accidents are shown by the weak 
lord of the Ascendant with Sun or other malefic occupy his debilitation 
sign which coincides with the 4th bhava when the weak Lord of the4th 
bhava combine with a watery planet. 


ACCIDENTS FROM VEHICLES 


These are indicated by the Sun and Mars in the 4th house havmg 
malefic aspects. Sun and Mars in the 4th houses with mutual aspects shour 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 297 


strong tendencies for accidents. The weak lords of the Ascendant and 8th 
bhava combining in the 4th bhava presage Vehicular Accidents. 


The combination of the weak lords of the Ascendant and of the 8th 
house with the 6th lord and Mars points to the propensity for SEVERE 
OR FATAL accidents. The same effect is shown by the weak lords ofthe 
Ascendant and of the 8th house posited in the 6th bhava with Rahu, Ketu 
or Saturn. Mars in the Ascendant aspected by the Sun or Saturn shows 
proneness to accidents and wounds. 


Cuts, wounds, and accidents of all sorts are shown by the lord of the 
6th bhava posited in the Ascendant or 8th bhava in association with cruel 
planet or in the 10th bhava fully aspected by malefics. 


The following combinations may also be noted in this combina- 
tion:- 


(1) Mars, Jupiter and the Moon; 
(2) Sun aspecting Moon with Navamsa in Cancer; 


(3) Moonand Mars; Jupiter and Mars; Sun, Moonand Mars; andMoon- 
Mars Venus in the 9th bhava. 


(4) Sun-Mars-Mercury or Sun-Mars and Jupiter combined inthe 10th 
bhava from the Moon. 


Today scientists claim that they have the power to develop all the 
potentialities of thebody and increase the duration of life. They claim to 
know the secret mechanism of ourphysiological and mental activities and 
the causes of our weakness. They are proud that our destiny is in our hands. 
Butthere laws which have transcended the thinking oTthese scientists but 
which have been understood by the ancients. And these laws comprehend 
the existence of correlations between man's sojourn on this planet and 
time of his exist from terrestrial existence. And here steps in Astrology. 


ARSENIC POISONING 


¢In chronic Arsenic poisoning, the gastro intestinal symptoms of 
nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting and diarrhoea are not prominent, and 
may be absent. General malaise anorexia and anemia are usually present. 
If taken medicinally, or otherwise, over a long period, arsenic produces 
a finely mottled general brownish pigmentation of the skin-raindrop 
pigmentation of skin. It effects principally the covered parts. The mucous 
membranes are not involved. 


298 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Thickening of the epidermis of the soles and palms, and irregular 
thickening of the nails are present in long-standing cases. Squamous 
carcinoma of theskin of thepalms of thehands may follow. In some cases 
the salivation is a marked feature, paroxysmal attacks of excessive 
secretion of saliva occuring. 


Erythema, herpes zoster, pigmentation of theskin erythromelalgia, 
are commonly to be noted. 


Symptoms of multiple neutritis are likely to develop and these effect 
both the upper and lower extremities. 


Long continued poisoning causes anaemia peripheral neuritis pro- 
gressive wasting and weakness, death resulting from exhaustion and 
cardiac failure, ascites and general oedema occuring towards the end. 


Where the salts of arsenic settle inthe skinof the workman in industry, 
multiple neuritis does not occur. There is pharyngitis, laryngitis is with 
husky voice and conjunctivitis with redness and swelling of theeyelids. 


Hyperkeratosis with multiple papillomata and even multiple carci- 
noma of theskin may occur. Often there is perforation of thenasal septum 
which is symptomless unless carcinoma supervened. 


The urine, faeces, the distal portions of the hair and the nails contain 
arsenic, its detection serving to confirm the diagnosis. The tests for 
arsenic will be found in words of toxicology. 


It must be remembered that in case of suspected arsenical poisoning, 
the diagnosis can always be made with certainty by an analysis of theurine 
vomit and faeces, and these should always be taken for examination, the 
tests being made by an expert Toxicologist. 


SNAKE BITE 


Specific polyvalent antivenins are now available for the bites of 
common deadly snakes of India, Africa, South America and the United 
States while monovalent antivenins are available in certain other coun- 
tries. Polyvalent antivenins are mixtures of specific antivenin and 
generally are only life-saving when the venom of the particular species 
of snake which had bitten the patient has been utilised in their manufac- 
ture. Some antivenins are now being made in concentrated dried form. 


Antivenin must always be given mtravenously and the dosage varies 
inversely with body-weight - children receiving much larger doses than 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 299 


adults. No patient is too ill receive it. But those who receive antivenin 
should be under careful observation ofa doctor as paralysis may appear 
and further antivenin injections be necessary. Infiltration of the tissues 
with antivenin in the vicinity of the wound may be useful. Artificial 
respiration may prolong life. While the patient vomits the head should be 
kept low and fluids may be given through a stomach tube. 


HEMOPHILIA 


Hemophilia is a hereditary disorder of blood clotting. It is because of 
the deficiency of anti-haemophilia factor in the plasma. In infancy the 
bleeding tendency is shown by appearance of swellings after minor 
trauma. Impaired movements ofthe affected joint results from bleeding. 
Haematuria and bleeding after tooth extraction occur. Diagnosis can be 
made after laboratory tests of blood clotting. 


KK 


2OK 


4. Sun, lord of Lagna and Lagna karaka both, is with Ketu in 8th house. 


Acase of POISON taken by mouth. 
As aresult he suffered from Eczema 
in right leg. 


1. Malefic Mars is aspected by 
malefic. 


2. 2nd house Virgo sign conjoined 
with Mars and Rahu. 


3.Moon in6thhouse conjoined with 
6th lord Saturnand is aspected by 
Rahu from Virgo sign, which sug- 
gest impurity of blood owing to 
infection from poison. 


5. Cancer and Pisces signs and 8th and 12th houses ruling Blood are 
afflicted. 


Thus we find that houses and planets ruling diseases from Blood- 
impurity and also ruling poison are afflicted. Affliction of Virgo sign by 
strong malefics, afflicting 2nd house, justify taking Poison by mouth. 
Right leg is ruled by 2nd house and Satum and affliction to these suggest 
eczema on the right leg. 


Another point of interest is that the person committed suicide by 
hanging himself. 


300 Astrology and Diagnosis 
A case of Burnt right hand resulting 
I NO tt 
1. 2nd house ruling right hand is 
aspected by Saturn from 12th 
house, a fiery sign, 2nd Lord Mer- 


cury is in dusthana, which is also a 
fiery sign and further it is aspected 
by Rahu from a fiery sign. 
eon wun 2. 2nd house from Moon, Aries sign, 
a fiery sign, conjoined with Rahu 


and Saturnand lord. thereof Mars, a fiery planet, is aspected by Rahu 
from fiery house. 2nd house from Sun another fiery sign is conjoined 
with Mercury, ruler of Ulcer and is aspected by Rahu. Further Mercury 
is lord of 8th house a dusthana from Sun. 


3. Mars is in Lagna and the Sun is in 7th house with lord of 8th. 


4. Taurus ruling right hand is conjoined with Mars and is aspected by 
Sun and also by Rahu. Saturn, karaka for hands is in fiery house 
afflicted and is in dusthana. 


Thus reasons for fire-burntand Ulcer are present in this chart. Rahu's 
affliction to almost all houses and planets suggest long suffering. 


ACCIDENT CHART 
BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


This is the chart of a mother of 3 children and brought up in the best 
of Indian traditions, died by Gunshot just before completing her 30th year. 


Tumours, Boils, etc. 301 


For appearance the horoscope is well constituted, the lord of the Ascen- 
dant occupying an angle in association with two benefics and the lord of 
that angle being exalted. The lord of the Ascendant though in an angle is 
in Scorpio in the asterism of Mercury lord of the 2nd and 11th and the 
lord of the 8th occupies a kendra . Under such conditions, the maximum 
life allotted is 30 years. She lost her life in Rahu's major period and 
Saturn's minor period. The affliction of the Ascendant by being aspected 
by two first rate malefics, Saturn and Mars, has weakened the entire 
structure of the horoscope. 


The Moon being Atmakaraka is rendered highly malefic by his 
association with Rahu and he is subjected to Parakartari Yoga, the Sun 
being in Scorpio (15 deg) and Mars in Capricorn (3 deg). The 5th house 
is a fiery sign considerably afflicted. 


Probably the native was not able to face life courageously. The Moon 
in the 5th with Rahu made her emotional and she must have been 
subjected to fits of depression before ending her life. The major lord Rahu 
is in the asterism of Venus who is placed in a maraka house. The major 
lord's association with the !2th lord is also not favourable. The sub-lord 
Saturnis a maraka by ownership and situation. When the Atmakaraka is 
weak and afflicted and the karakamsa happens to be Sagittarius, one will 
have a violent end. Rahu is associated with MATI-VYADHI or mental 
depression. The sub-lord Saturn occupies Shatbhisha asterism ruled by 
Rahu the major Lord. The Lords of Lagna and the 8th are in Sarpa 
Drekkana and the Lagna and Moon occupy Ayudha Drekkana. 


BALANCE OF SUNDASA AT BIRTH 


YRS MONTHS DAYS 
4 6 16 
BIRTH CHART NAVAMSA 


WAC ARIN AZ 
on 
VA aN 


aN aS 


302 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Balance of Mercury Dasa at birth l6y. 5m. 19days. 


This is a typical Alpayu chart. Lord of 8th aspects the Ascendant with 
Ketu. The Ascendant and the Moonare associated with malefics. Though 
the lord of the Ascendant is exalted in the | 1th, he is rendered weak by 
situation in the asterism of Saturn and by being subjected to considerable 
affliction in Navamsa. Mercury and Mars are actually in the 12th bhava. 
The boy consumed and insecticide which proved Fatal. 


The death took place in major period of Ketu and the sub-period of 
Venus, lord of Lagna. Lord of 8th Jupiter is in the Ist Drekkana of Scorpio 
going under the name of Sarpa. When Rahu and Ketu are involved the 
source of death will be “aberration of mind, artificial poisoning" etc. 


RR PSS 


Balance of Mars dasa at birth - 4y. 4m. 18days. 


This person fell froma moving train and died in his 23rd year. He was 
on his way from Nagpur to Bombay. The accident took place at the fag 
end of Rahu's major period and sub-period of Mars. 


8th house and 8th lord are considerably afflicted by the disposition of 
Rahu and Mars. The Sun is in Magha asterism ruled by Ketu who occupies 
the 2nd house aspected by Mars and Saturn. The major lord Rahu is also 
in Magha asterism while the sublord Mars is in the constellation of Venus 
who occupies a Maraka place aspected by Saturn. Mars happens to be the 
lord of 4th (conveyance) and his situation in the 8th resulted in "accidental 
Death". The Moon and Ketu are in bhava association. This indicates 
suicidal tendencies. He was perks7s in low spirits and jumped from the 
running train resulting in his death. 


Tumours, Boils, etc 303 


Though Mercury is exalted, he is very near Mars occupying the 
constellation of the lord of the 8th. In the Navamsa again Mercury is 
considerably afflicted. It must be a case of temporary derangement of 
mind leading to depression and sudden urge to end life. 


According to SARAVALL, if Saturn, the Moon and Mars are in 2, 4, 
and 10, death will be due to fall from vehicle. Here Moon is in 2nd bhava 
and Mars and Saturn aspect the 2nd. 


The yoga is practically fulfilled in as much as an aspect can be 
considered as powerful as location. 


CHAPTER 18 


GROINS AND GENITAL ORGANS 
URINARY SYSTEM 


This system comprises of Kidney and ureter of both sides and bladder 
with urethra both in male and female. This is mainly controlled by the Sun 
and partly by the Moon. As you all might have observed during the 
summer seasonthe micturation becomes less, as most of the water we take 
is excreted by skin in the form of sweat. This is due to the heat of theSun 
which dilates the capillaris. In winter just the opposite result occurs. We 
attend to micturation more often. The Moon governs the tissue fluid, 
water that we take 48 well as the liquid portion of blood. 60 % of our body 
consists of water. Thus you can easily imagine the action of the Moon. 
The cerebro-spinal fluid also comes under the jurisdiction of the Moon. 
When the Moon is Full more fluid is drawn to the tissues from the blood, 
thus glomsular filtration is affected and the urine secretion is less. In the 
same cranial manner the intracranial pressure increases and therefore 
malefic situation of the Moon in the natal-chart gives rise to mental 
affliction. This is another reason why the lunatics become more aggres- 
sive atthe time of full Moon. The blood volume also tends to increase and 
decrease im relation with the phases of the Moon. Here it must be 
remembered that near the full Moon the blood volume decreases and vice 
versa. 


REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM 


The normal physiological processes whichare takingplace within our 
bodies day to day are controlled by various nerve centres and reflexes, 
which in turn are governed by planets. It is interesting to note that the 
planets have a great say in our day to day life. 


Reproductive System is mainly controlled by Jupiter. Jupiter governs 
the libido part of sex; whereas both the Moon and Mars govern the 
delivery and menstruation respectively. The process of child-birth has 
been proved to be under the influence of the Moon. 


STERILITY 


Both the husband and wife should be examined im a case of Sterility. 
More often than expected the cause is in the male. It is useless to make 
the female undergo treatment from doctor to doctor unless the cause is 
found. 


Groins and Genital Organs 305 


Asimple seminal fluid examination may reveal valuable information. 
The general appearance and physique of an individual have no correlation 
to his power of reproduction. 


Minor operative procedures may be required to detect the cause, 
without which it is difficult to treat a patient for sterility or infertility. 


Every hospital with good gynaecology and obstetric departments has 
facilities for examining, investigating and treating cases of sterility. 
There are many centres in leading cities which undertake treatment after 
investigation. Many causes are correctable and every individual requir- 
img such treatment should not hesitate to go for treatment. 


IMPOTENCY AND STERILITY 


Venus rules the sex life in male. Seventh house rules the 
Semen. Libra sign is the seat of the same. All these govern our sex life, 
Semen and material happiness. When libra sign, seventh house, lord of 
seventh house, and Venus be weak, afflicted and badly situated, IMPO- 
TENCY may be seen. Mercury and Satum are two important IMPO- 
TENT planets. Any connection of these two planets, when they are 
malefics, with the above houses and planets, is not good. Mars governs 
the sex life in females. Fifthhouse is responsible for bearing children. Leo 
sign also rules the same. When Mars, Leo sign, fifth and seventh houses 
are afflicted, weak or badly placed and when these houses and planets 
have any relation with malefics Saturn and Mercury in a female horo- 
scope, one loses capacity of bearing Child. 


Few combinations are as under :- 
1. Seventh lord with Venus in sixth house in a riSale horoscope. 


2. If sixth lord, Venus and Mercury be the one house with lord of Lagna 
or if they aspect the lord of Lagna in a male horoscope. 


3. If Seventh lord be weak and enemies be in 7th house. 
4. Weak and powerless Moon in the seventh house. 
5. Heavily afflicted Moon in own house. 


6. If weak lord u. >,j;rn& be in its debilitated house or be aspected by 
a debilitated planet and if combusted seventh lord be in sixth house. 


7. If seventh lord be defeated in a planetary fight and be in sixth or 
eighth house. 


306 Astrology and Diagnosis 


8. Saturn or Venus in eighth and tenth house aspected by malefics and 
without benefic aspect. 


9. Afflicted Saturn being debilitated in sixth or eighth house. 
CYSTICERCOSIS 


Cysticercosis is infection with cyst of tapeworm called taenia, Many 
may aquire the cyst by indigestion of taenia eggs consumed through 
contaminated food. The affected organs are muscles, brain, eye, lungs 
and the abdominal cavity. Calcified cysts are visible in X-ray. 


If they are underthe skin they can be diagnosed by makingan excision. 
Echinococcosis or hydatid disease is accused by hydatis cysts of the tape- 
worm called Echinococcus Grannulosus. This is contacted through the 
tapeworm's eggs in the faeces of foxes, dogs and cattle. Hydatid cysts can 
occur in the liver, lungs, kidney and brain. 


Surgical removal of the hydatid cyst is the only successful therapy 
available. Avoidance of contact with dogs ortheir contaminated environ- 
ment is important in the prevention of hydatid cyst. Children should be 
protected and taught the value of washing hands. 


ENURESIS 


Enuresis is the unconscious passage of urine by children over the age 
of three years. About 80 per cent of children acquire bladder control at 
the age of two years. Enuresis may occurdue to delayed maturation of the 
central nervous system. It may be manifestation of a backward child. 


A family history of enuresis, epilepsy or somnambulism or sleep- 
walking may be present. An organic defect like spina bifida occulta at 
times causes enuresis. 


Thread worms, urinary infection, diabetes and a very high salt and 
water intake is sometimes the cause of enuresis. 


If there is no organic cause, enuresis is the mymptom of malad just 
personality. Lack of adequate training, or lack of facilities for training 
such as a toilet which is far from the bedroom or dark passaged that have 
to be traversed may cause enuresis. 


At times it is an expression of insecurity, or expression of resentment 
and antagonism against overstrictness, punishment and comparisons. 
Such a child may become a delinquent without proper care. 


Groins and Genital Organs 307 


Immediate fear of a situation may be expressed in enuresis. This 
occurs in an experience of deprivation, the first time a child is taken to 
school or when there is a change of home, hospitalisation or surgical 
operations. Psychologists hold that it is a desire for physical love or an 
expression of the castration complex. 


In. treatment any organic cause should be excluded. Correct any 
environment factor. Do not punish, redicure shame, pamper or compare. 
Avoid excessive neutral strain. Wake up a child half an hour before 
wettingtime, if known. Encourage him if he keeps the night dry. Asimple 
dinner without seasoned foods or less water at bedtime may help. It is 
essential that convenient facilities for toilet should be provided. 


The child should be given a separate bed to sleep. Gain the child's 
confidence especially when he shows resentment. An enuretic chooses 
play with eater, they should not be prohibited from playing in the water 
for their pleasure. 


BURNING SENSATION WHILE PASSING URINE 


Pain and burning sensation while passing urine may be due to a 
number of causes like small, ulcers in the urethral opening, infections of 
the urethra, bladder and prostrate or bladder stone. 


In males gonorrhoea infectionoftheurethra causes burningsensation, 
discharge and pain while passing urine. 


Where no particular cause is present, antibiotics and sulphadiazine, 
alongwith alkanisation of urine with citralkaliquid will help. If gonorrhoea 
is present, penicillin is given. 


FREQUENCY OF URINATION 


Frequency of urination requires complete urine examination to detect 
any urinary tract infections. Thread worms cause urinary disturbances 
and bedwetting in children. Lesions of thenervous system or spinal cord 
should also be looked for a bed-wetting and loss of sphincter control may 
occur due to these lesions. A bifid spine may also cause enuresis. 


Psychological disorders cause bed-wetting in an individual who 
might have been previously normal. Assess the personality of the 
individual to find outin his family environment any causes or psychologi- 
cal disturbances excessive mental strain, anxiety or worry. The treatment 
will vary according to the cause. 


308 Astrology and Diagnosis 


CHRONIC PROSTATIS 


The organism most frequently causing chronic prostratis are B Coli 
staphylococci Chronic Prostatis can be a focus of infection that produces 
metastatic manifestations; the prostate itself can become infected from 
distant foci such a infected tonsils, carious teeth, furnoculosis, or rarely 
due to urethritis. 


Recurring attacks of malise and fever may occur and last about three 
days. Dull aching pain in the perinium and rectum increased by sitting on 
a hard surface may be seen. Frequent urination also occurs. Arthritis, 
myositis, neuritis and sometimes iritis may be the only symptoms and are 
correlated with prostatis when pus is obtained from the prostate. Lower 
back pain extending down the legs due to the prostatis may be missed and 
treatment for lumbago or orthopaedic conditions. 


At times of sexual disfunction such a premature ejaculations 
prostatorrhoea and impotence may occur. 


In treatment massage of the prostate through the rectum is the 
important measure. Appropriate antibiotics are administered. 


In later stages, urethral dilitation is also done. This may followed by 
irritation of thebladder. Resistant cases may be treated with canalisation 
of the vasa which allows irritation of the seminal vescicles. 


URINAL DISEASES 


Seventh and Eighth houses rule all diseases concerning Urine. Libra 
and Scorpio signs are the seat in natural zodiac ruling the Urinal diseases. 
Venus and Mars are the significators forthe same. When these houses 
their lords and significator are afflicted, badly situated, weak or when 
houses and house-lords ruling Urine are afflicted by malefics, Venus and 
Mars, or when the houses, house-lords and Significators make some 
relation with sixth house, lord of sixth house or with disease producing 
house or planet by conjunction, aspect, etc, they give rise to all Urinal 
troubles. Watery signs - Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces - of which influence of 
Scorpio sign over this disease has been already mentioned, also rule 
Urine. 


When Saturnjoins the above houses or planets, or afflicts them by 
aspect or be in any way related with them, it produces Stones in Urine 
passage. 


Groins and Genital Organs 309 


FEW COMBINATIONS FOR URINAL DISEASES ARE :- 


1. If Moon be in Watery sign and lord of that sign be in sixth house 
and be aspected by any planet from watery sign. 


2. Moon in Cancer or Scorpio Navamsa, aspected by or conjoined with 
malefic. 


3. Mars in the 7th house conjoined with or aspected by malefic. 


4. Moon in Aries sign, aspected by malefic and unaspected by any 
benefic. 


5. Afflicted Saturn in the 2nd house. 


6. Malefic in Lagna, lord of Ascendant conjoined with or aspected by 
malefic, Jupiter and Venus inseventh or eighth house, Moon in 12th 
house conjoined with malefic. 


7. Sun, Venus and Saturn in seventh house. 

8. Sun and Mars in Lagna. 

9. Mars in 7th or 10th house conjoined with or aspected by Saturn. 
10. Mercury in Aries or Sagittarius sign aspected by Saturn. 


11.1stand 7th lords in 8thhouse, Mars, Saturnand Rahu in7th house, 
lord of 8th house in lagna and Moon aspected by malefic. 


12. Sixth lord with Venus in lagna. 


13. Moon in sixth house being in watery sign and sixth lord being 
aspected by Mercury from watery sign. 


ALBUMINURIA 


Blood serum contains two kinds of proteins that may appear in the 
urine namely, albumin and globulin. Albuminuria which is commonly 
termed so is more correctly called proteinuria as search is seldom made 
for globulin. 


Proteinuria may occur with organic disease of the kidneys as in 
functional or orthostatic proteinuria, febrile proteinuria and congestive 
proteinuria. Proteinuria occuring with organic disease of thekidneys and 
urinary tract may be due to the following causes:- Nephritis acute and 
chronic, includingacute suppurative nephritis, focal nephritis, periarteritis 
nodosa and pyelonephritis, acute and chronic ischaemic renal diseases 


310 Astrology and Diagnosis 


including malignant hypertension diabetic glomerulonephritis, sclerosis, 
severe renal arteosclerosis and renal infection, toxaemia of pregnancy 
and tabular nephroses, amyloid disease of kidney, renal tuberculosis, 
Gravitz tumour and congenital cystic kidney and all conditions of the 
urinary tract characterised by hamaeturia and pyuria. 


In orthostatic proteinuria protein appears in the urine secreted in the 
upright posture. This is common in males between puberty and adoles- 
cence. 


Any acute specific fever may cause proteinuria due to the inflamma- 
tion of the kidney. It subsides soon after the temperature falls to normal. 
Venous congestion of the kidneys as in congestive heart failure, after the 
epileptic fit or any state of unconsciousness may cause proteinuria to 
occur. 


The patient should be thoroughly examined and investigated to rule 
out organic diseases of the kidneys and the cause should be treated. 


DISEASES CONCERNING FEMALE ORGANS 


Diseases in Female Organs are to be judged from Libra sign and 
seventh house. Mars is significator for all diseases in female organs. 
Affliction of Libra sign, seventh house, lord of seventh house and Mars 
give rise to various diseases concerning to the same. When malefic Mars 
joins or aspects fromevil house, the seventh house, lord of seventh house, 
Libra sign etc, he may produce diseases. When sixth house, its lord or a 
disease inflicting house orplanet makes some relation with the houses and 
planets ruling female organs or when the lord of the above house and 
significators be situated in disease-inflicting house or in evil house, they 
produce the disease in female organs. Venus rules the Ovaries. When 
Libra sign, seventh house, lord of seventh house, Mars and Venus be 
afflicted by Rahu or be inthe sixth house, evil house, etc, with Rahu, there 
may be Tubercular affection of Ovaries. Mars is significator for all 
Tumours and Mercury is significator for Ulcers. When Mercury afflicts 
the houses and planets ruling female organs, it produces Ulcers there. In 
case of afflictions by malefic and afflicted Mars, there may be Tumours 
in Female Organs. 


LEUCORRHOEA 


Before or at the time of puberty, leucorrhoea is usually due to 
Doderlein's bacillus and staphylococcus. Local irritation due to itching 
will respond to local cleansing and maintenance of hygiene and the 


Groins and Genital Organs 311 


application of two percent gentian violet. Sedatives may be necessary for 
itching. 


Tricomonas vaginalia infection is common in latter age-groups, 
which also requires the maintenance of local hygiene. 


Occasionally, leucorrhoea is due to gonococcus infection but in such 
cases other symptoms like fever, urethritis or vulvitis may be present. 
Penicillin is the treatment. 


Now-a-days somewhat common cause appears to be the using of 
mechanical contraceptives like pessaries, which by irritation cause 
leucorrhoea. Their removal will stop irritation. 


AMENORRHOEA 


Amenorrhoea, scanty or suspended flow or failure of the monthly 
courses. The monthly affection of women commences at the age of fifteen 
or thereabout and ceases about forty-five. In India it generally com- 
mences or ceases a few year earlier. It may be suspended or fail under the 
following circumstances. First when the cause of failure of the monthly 
courses is pregnancy. There will be othersymptoms of such conditionand 
nothing is required to be done. When the flow is not present during 
suckling it is in accordance with nature and nothing is required to be done. 
If the flow appears during suckling it is a sign that suckling should be 
discontinued, as the system cannot bear two drains. 


Secondly, when instead of appearing at the usual age, the discharge 
is delayed. The girl will probably be pale, weakly and debilitated, the 
breasts will be little developed and there may also be dropsical swellings 
of thelegs, arms or face. Periodical pains in the back, and lions, irregular 
recurring headaches. 


Thirdly, the menses have been secreted fora time and their recurrence 
prevented. The discharge at an early period, often, does not occur 
regularly at the end of every four weeks. 


The interruption of the menses may be caused by the debilitating 
effects of other diseases such as consumption, Bright's diseases and some 
forms of haemorrhage. 


Fourthly, the non-appearance of discharge may depend on some 
mechanical obstruction or on disease of the womb. Obstruction chiefly 
Occurs in VOUNO eivle. A ° 


312 Astre logy and Diagnosis 


Fifthly, stoppage of month.'y courses occur due to "change of life” or 
monopause. 


Causes given by experts are "change of residence, sudden shocks, 
worry and mental disorders, desire of fear of pregnancy”. 


Lagna is afflicted by Rahu, who 
creates Phobia. Lords of 3rd house is 
debilitated. Lord of 3rd house is 
Mars who governs blood and break- 
age as well as courage. The Moon, 
karaka, for mind and menstruation is 
associated with Saturn. The girl is 
hypersensitive, fearful and of ner- 
vous type. The cause is due to fear of 
pregnancy. 


DYSMENORRHOEA OR PAINFUL MENSTRUATION 


This is more common in India and is generally symptomatic of 
congestion about the womb or ovaries. In exceptional cases it results 
fromthewomb being flexed or otherwise out of place, or from narrowness 
of theorifice; and in some few instances it appears to be connected with 
a gouty condition. The symptoms are : tenderness and pain in the lower 
part of the bowels, especially little above the groin, and, often, most felt 
on the left side. Frequently the pain is of a very acute, darting character, 
shooting down the thighs, coming on in severe paroxysms, sometimes so 
violent as to cause the person to roll about as if suffering from colic. There 
may also be nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, sudden desire to pass and pain 
when passing water. When the pain and tenderness in the groins are 
prominent it indicates that ovaries are principally implicated and the 
malady is known as Ovarian Dysmenorrhoea. The patient is also fre- 
quently Hysterical. Such symptoms may precede the monthly period by 
a few hours or, sometimes days; often twenty-four hours previously inthe 
most painful time. The symptoms may disappear on the first flow of the 
"discharge", or they may continue, with passage of clots of blood or 
membranous shreds, until the discharge ceases, as a rule there is most pain 
when there is least discharge. Women who suffer thus at the monthly 
periods are frequently dyspeptic during the intervals; or they may suffer 
from "flushing", cough, palpitation, facial neuralgia, fixed pain in the 


Groins and Genital Organs 313 


head, or frompain on the left side, orunderthe lower partoftheleftblade- 
bone, or in the very lowest part of the spine. They may have attacks of 
menorzhagia and leucorrhoea is frequently present. 


Moon is afflicted by Rahu in the 2nd 


from Chandra Lagna. Ketu's asso- 
NF, NC ciation with Moon is not desirable 
for easy parturition also. She had two 
difficult labours when the child had 
to be extracted by forceps. She had 
abortions and miscarriages also. 
8 Whenever the Moon is afflicted ina 
eaitinh woman's horoscope her emotional 
life is disturbed because the Moon 
Va VEN governs emotions also. Both mater- 
nal labour and menstrual flow are 
controlled by the Moon. 


MENORRHAGIA - EXCESSIVE MENSTRUATION 


Menorrhagia or Exces sive menstruation occurs when the flow returns 
with unusual frequency, or continues longer than ordinary, or is more 
abundant than natural at the proper period. The flow should naturally 
occur once in every twenty-eight days; the average time of its continuance 
is three days, and the amount of fluid lost is about four ounces. There are 
exceptions to these general roles, but usually when su¢h conditions are 
interfered with somethingwronghas occured. Excessive, too frequent, or 
too long continued menstruation may be the resulrof two quite opposite 
states of the system, Viz plethora in some instances, debility in others. 


An immoderate flow arising from plethora is usually preceeded by 
shivering pains in the head and loins, flsshed countenance and febrile 
symptoms. An immoderate flow from debility is attended by paleness 
languor, feeble pulse, fainty feelings, neuralgic pains, depression of 
spirits, flaruence and disordered bowels, with dull aching pain in the back, 
loins and thighs. Excessive menstruation is very likely to occur to women 
who have suffered from over-nursing, or from frequent pregnancy, and 
sometimes when a doubt of pregnancy exists, it may be difficult to 
distinguish this affliction from miscarriage. 


She was married since 8 years. Had two abortions. Monthly periods 
were never normal. In the Major period of Venus and sub-period of Saturn 


314 Astrology and Diagnosis 


she became moody and even melan- 
choly. Whenever Moon is afflicted 
by Satum or Rahu, besides melan- 
choly she suffer in her monthly peri- 
ods. Sun in the 8th is always indica- 
tive of excessive discharges. She has 
become very restless and suffers from 
mental depression. 


MENSTRUAL DISORDER 


The menstrual discharge ina female after Puberty is a regular monthly 
course. Moon governs the fluid matters in a female and Mars governs the 
Blood. Their combination causes Menstruation. When Moon comes in 
transit in any of the houses, first, second, fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth, 
ninth or twelfth, the menses occur. 


Some times it is disturbed by irregularities or by excessive flow. This 
occurs due to malefic influence of the planets. It is the lower abdomen 
where womb and ovaries are situated. Womb is ruled by sixth house and 
Virgo sign, while Ovary is ruled by seventh house and Libra sign. 
Therefore, the disease connecting menses are to be found out from sixth, 
seventh and eighth houses and from Virgo, Libra, and Scorpio signs. 
Moon and Mars are the signifying planets for this disease. In case of 
excessive flow, a malignant Mars is responsible; For pain and irregulari- 
ties Saturn is to be held responsible, Moon works forall chemical changes 
inthe body and therefore Moon-Mars, Moon-Saturn, Moon-Rahu, Moon- 
Ketu combinations are not good, in a female horoscope for regular and 
undisturbed menstrual discharge. Whenever Moon is afflicted in transit 
by above malefics, they will create some irregularities in menstrual 
discharge. 


DISEASES CONCERNING KIDNEY AND PELVIS 


KIDNEY is one of the pair of glandular organs in abdominal cavity 
of mammals. Pelvis is basin like cavity of kidney. There are many kinds 
of diseases concerning these places, such aa TUMOURS IN KIDNEY, 
CYSTIC DISEASE, ABSCESSES, NEPHRITIS etc. The seventh 
house roles the place. Libra sign is the seat ofthesame in natural zodiac. 
Jupiter and Moon are significator for all diseases concerning Kidney. 


Groins and Genital Organs 315 


Venus is ruler of diseases in Pelvis. Affliction to Libra sign, seventh 

house, lord of seventh house, Jupiter & Moon all these give rise to diseases 
in Kidney, when malefic Jupiter and Moon afflict the above houses and 

lords, the similar diseases are predicted. If the above houses, their lords 

and signifying planets connect sixth house or lord of sixth house or any 

disease producing house or planet by Conjunction, aspect ete, the disease 

connecting Kidney and Pelvis appear. An afflicted and weak Moon is 

always bad" for Kidney. Saturn also rules the diseases in kidney and 

affliction to Libra sign, seventh house, lord of seventh house ete by Saturn 
give rise to diseases kidney. When Mars and Mercury being malefic, 

afflict the houses and planets ruling kidney, they produce Tumours, 

abscesses etc in Kidney. 


ULCERS AND OTHER DISEASES IN GENERATIVE ORGANS 


Eighth house is the place wherefrom these diseases are to be judged. 
Scorpio sign, rules tbe same. Mars and Mercury are significator for the 
diseases in Genital Organs like Ulcers, Tumours, Boils etc. Affliction of 
these houses and their Lords together with afflicted Mars and Mercury, 
give rise to these disease. When Scorpio sign, 8th house and lord of the 
8th house are afflicted by malefics Mars and Mercury, and when they 
make any relation with disease inflicting house or planet, they produce 
similar diseases. 


SOME OF THE COMBINATIONS CONNECTING THE 
DISEASES OF GENITAL ORGANS ARE; 


1. Sixth lord with Mars, unaspected by benefic. 
2. Moon and Saturn in Cancer or Scorpio Navamsa. 


3. If 8th lord be with Moon or lord of the house where 8th lord is 
situated, be with Moon or 8th house, also be aspected by Rahu. 


4. Three or more malefics in the 8th house. 


5. Lord of the Ascendant and Mars in the sixth house. 


316 Astrology and Diagnosis 


6. Lord of the Ascendant in Gemini or Virgo sign aspected by Mercury 
provided such Gemini or Virgo sign is the sixth house., 


7. Venus and the Sun in the sixth house. 
8. Mars and Venus in one house being malefics or afflicted. 


9. Seventh house in Navamsa of Mars, in a female horoscope aspected 
by Saturn. 


10.Moon in Cancer or Scorpio Navamsa with malefic. 

11.Lord of the Ascendant in sixth house with Mars and Mercury. 
12. Mars and Venus in the seventh house. 

13. Moon in Cancer or Scorpio Navamsa aspected by malefic. 


14. Moon in Cancer Navamsa or Scorpio or in Scorpio navamsa of 
Cancer and when afflicted. 


15. Mercury is the Ascendant with lord of 6th house and 8th house. 


16. Lords ofthe Ascendant and seventh house in 8th house, Mars, 
Saturn or Rahu in 7th house, lord of 8th house in the Ascendant 
and Moon afflicted. 


17. Sixth lord in the Ascendant with malefic Venus. 


18.Lord of the Ascendant in Virgo navamsa afflicted by malefic. 


CYST 


A sebaceous cyst appears as a hemispherical swelling on any part of 
the body and is due to obstruction in the openingof a sebaceous duct. The 
punctum of the obstructed duct, may be seen on the summit of the cyst. 
Yellowish white sebaceous material can be squeezed out from the cyst. 


The complications that may arise are infection of the cyst with pain 
and foetid contents, ulceration and formation of a sebaceous born. 


Treatment is surgical excision of the cyst. 
CHOLECYSTITIS 


Cholecystitis is the inflammation of gall bladder. The cause of the 


Groins and Genital Organs 317 
obstruction of the cystic duct by stone or calculus. The normal gall 
bladder resists bacterial infections. A gall stone may be lodged in the neck 
of the gall bladder. 


Chronic cholecystitis is the most common type of gall bladder disease. 
A family history of gall stones, attacks of jaundice and obesity are 
possible causes of the disease. Previous history of acute attacks may be 
present, Abdominal distension, nausea, abdominal pain and vomiting are 
the main symptoms. Weight reduction is essential. An operation 
cholecystictomy is the treatment. 


HYDROCELE 


Hydrocele is often due to the defective absorption of the fluid from 
the scrotum sac. It may be a secondary condition due to filaria. Usually 
there will only be a swelling which may be of any size. Sometimes Hernia 
may be present along with hydrocele. In this case both could be operated 
on together. 


Chronic epididymo-orchitis and syphilis occasionally give rise to 
secondary hydrocele. 


Tapping removal ofthe fluid by inserting a needle may give tempo- 
rary relief But permanent cure canbe obtained only after an operation in 
which case the sac containing the fluid is partially removed. 


TESTES 


In incomplete descent of the Testis is arrested in some part of its path 
to the scrotum. At times, the testis may be abnormally placed outside this 
path, and is termed ectopic tests. The hazards of incomplete descent are 
: Sterility in bilateral cases, pain, torsion of the spermatic cord, infection 
of the epididimis, peritonitis and associated inguinal Hernia. There is an 
increased tendency to malignant disease in undescended testis. 


Most surgeons favour performing operation termed as orchiopexy 
about the age of seven or eight years. In bilateral cases one side should 
be operated upon at a time with an interval of six months between the 
operations. Herniotomy should also be done before orchiopexy. Surgical 
correction is the only treatment in maldescended testis. 


HYDROCELES - ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS 


HYDROCELLE is the disease of enlarged testicles. Eighth house rules 
the same. Scorpio sign is the seat of thesame. Rahu signifying planet for 


318 Astrology and Diagnosis 


HYDROCELES. Affliction of Scorpio sign, eighth house lord of eighth 
house and Rahu or when malefic Rahu afflicts eighth house, lord of eighth 
house or Scorpio sign and they make any relation with sixth house, Virgo 
sign or with any disease inflicting house or planet, they cause the 
appearance of disease of HYDROCELE. 


Combinations forthe same are as under:- 


1, Rahu, Mars and Saturn in lagna. 
2. Lord of Lagna, Rahu and strong malefic in 8th house. 
3. Rahu in lagna, and Mars and Saturn in 8th house. 


4. Lord of navamsa, where lord oflagnas situated, with Rahu, Mars 
and Saturn causes similar diseases. 


5. Mars in lagna and eighth house is afflicted. 

6. When 8th house and Scorpio sign are afflicted by malefics. 
7. Rahu in lagna with Mars or with Saturn. 

8. Strong malefic in 8th house and also in lagna. 


9. Moon, Venus or Mars in Scorpio sign and also in 8th house in 
Navamsa Chart. 


HERNIA 


The disease of HERNIA is to be judged from Libra Sign and seventh 
house. Moon is Significator for the same. When Moon is weak, afflicted, 
badly placed and also Libra Sign, seventh house, lord of seventh house 
etc, are afflicted, they produce disease of HERNIA. Affliction of Moon 
by Mars and Saturnand any relation of them with the houses and planets 
ruling the disease of HERNIA, also give rise to similar disease. Afflicted 
Moon in watery Navamsa and some relation of her with the houses ruling 
disease, produces similar disease. when a weak and afflicted Moon 
afflicts the seventh house, Libra Sign or lord of seventh house, it causes 
the same disease. When the sixth house or lord of sixth house or disease 
inflicting house or planet makes some relation with Moon, Libra Sign, 
seventh house, lord of seventh house etc, in way of aspect, conjunction, 
etc, or when Moon and lord of seventh house being afflicted be in disease 
inflicting house, it be associated with disease inflicting planet, they give 
rise to similar disease. 


Groins and Genital Organs 319 


VENEREAL DISEASES 


Venereal diseases are those that are contracted by sexual contact. The 
common ones are Syphilis, Gonorrhoea, Lymphogranuloma, Venereum 
and Chancroid. Bejel and Yaws are non-venereal. 


The treatment varies with the disease. Examination of the urethral 
discharge may sometimes reveal the organism. 


SYPHILIS 


There are many blood tests for diagnosis of Syphilis. The treatment 
for Syphilis should be withP A .M taken in adequate doses after confirm- 
ing the disease by blood examination. Preparations of arsenical com- 
pounds, bismuth mercury and iodine were used in former days. Today 
penicillin is the mainstay of the treatment. 


The critical period forthe development is usually between fourto nine 
months after treatment. If the titre shows no fall after four to six months 
the full course of P.A.M should be repeated. 


Syphilis can be transmitted to foetus during pregnancy. The mother 
and the child should be treated at the earliest opportunity. At times 
infection in the mother is undiagnosed and unsuspected. Hence, if there 
is least doubt the pregnant woman should be tested serologically during 
pregnancy. 


The tests for venereal diseases vary according to the disease. The tests 
should be done before starting the treatment to diagnose the disease and 
after the treatment to assess the effect of the treatment course of the 
disease. Every well-equipped hospital has facilities for testing and 
treating venereal disease as Syphilis, Gonorrhoea, Chancroid, etc., in a 
special department known as Venerealogical Department. 


If an individual with venereal disease marries before he (or she) is 
completely cured, it is bound to infectthe pa rtneras well as the off-spring. 
Both partners will require treatment to prevent the risks and complica- 
tions of the disease and also save the new-bom from the infection. 


The secondary stage of Syphilis popular eruptions may appear in the 
mouth or throat. Round grayish white patches appear inthe surface of lips. 
Fissured ulcers may be found in the corner of the mouth. Pink, bald 
patches, which are visible under the tongue and even other ulcers 
discharge organisms which are contagious. Apart from the genital areas 
ulcers may be seen on the nose and larynx. 


320 Astrology and Diagnosis 


The mucous Membranes of the throat and the mouth are involved in 
the third stage of Syphilis. The soft palate and uvula are particularly 
common sites where ulceration can cause perforation and deformity. 


GONORRHOEA 


Gonorrhoea is caused by gonococcus. Sexual intercourse is the 
common way of transmission. Accidental contamination from infected 
material occurs rarely. 


The symptoms usually starts appearing a week or ten days after the 
infection. In the male, there will, at first, be discomfort in the urethra, 
followed by pus discharge. Then difficulty in passing urine and frequency 
of micturation develop. Fever, headache, malaise etc., follow. Procaine 
penicillin (600,000 units) injection are given. It is better to get tests done 
for Syphilis every month for six months when gonorrhoea is present. The 
complications are infection of theprostrate, epidermis, arthritis, rheuma- 
tism and conjunctivitis. 


SOFT CHANCRE OR CHANCROID 


Soft Chancre or Chancroid is a venereal disease caused by the specific 
bacillus of Ducrey. The incubation period is the short and in two to three 
days a vescicle appears which becomes infected and breaks to form an 
ulcer about a week after the infection. The sores are commonly multiple 
painful and are associated with enlargement of the inguinal glands..Pus 
is formed and many months pass before the wound is healed. 


Venereal sores may be due to Duorey’s bacillus or due to syphilitic 
infection. Syphilis should therefore be ruled out in every case. Duorey's 
bacillus is penicillin resistant. Therefore a course of sulphonamides and 
streptomycin is prescribed. 


When the treatment is over, it is necessary to get V.D.R. Test done 
at monthly intervals for 3 to 4 months to find out if there is Syphilis, as 
it is also likely to be contacted simultaneously. 


PHIMOSIS OF THE PENIS - Phimosis of the penis is due to 
congenital narrowing of theprefice, often associated with an unduly long 
foreskin. The condition can be acquired as a result of chronic or acute 
inflammation of the lining of the prepuce and glans. 


At any time of life if the foreskin cannot be retracted, smegma 
accumulates beneath it and some degree of inflammation results. In 
extreme cases of severe phimosis, when the patient passes urine the 


Groins and Genital Organs 321 


prepuce balloons out first and a weak steam of urine follows. Atresta of 
the meatus may lie hidden by the phimosis and may cause dysuria hydro- 
ureters and hydronephrosis. 


Minor degree of phimosis in early infancy can be treated by regular 
retraction of perpuce. In other circumstances circumcision is indicated. 


VENEREAL DISEASES - ASTROLOGICAL FACTORS 


Eighth House roles this disease. Scorpio sign is the seat of this disease 
in natural zodiac. Venus is the signifying planet for the same. Afflictioa 
of Scorpio sign, eighth house, lord of eighth house and Venus or when 
malefic Venus afflicts the eighth house, lord of eighth house or Scorpio 
sign, and when they be in some way related with a disease producing 
house or planet by conjunction, situation, aspect, etc., they give rise to 
venereal disease. 


There are many combinations for the Venereal diseases, some of 
them are: 


1.Sun and Moon in opposition to Mars and Saturn and Venus being 
afflicted. 


2. Sun Moon in Pisces ascendant with a malefic and also a malefic in 
eighth house. 


3. Sun in opposition to Mars, and Moon in opposition to Saturn, and 
Venus also afflicted. 


4. 7th lord and Venus in the 6th house being afflicted. 


5. 8th lord with Moon, or lord of the house where 8th lord is situated, 
with Moon and 8th lord afflicted by aspect of Rahu and also Venus 
afflicted. 


6. Three or more malefics without benefic aspect or conjunction in 
eighth house and Venus afflicted. 


7. Venus and Malefic strongly afflicted in a house. 
8. When Mars is conjoined with Venus and 8th house is also afflicted. 
9. Venus is house of Mars aspected by Mars and 8th house afflicted. 


10. Venus in house of Saturn aspected by Saturn and eighth house 
afflicted. 


322 Astrology and Diagnosis 


11.Rahu and Venus in sixth house, when Lagna is Aries. 


12. When lord of eighth house is conjoined with Ketu and Venus 
afflicted. 


13. When lord of Lagna is in sixth house with Mars, and Mercury is 
without benefic conjunction or aspect. 


14, When Scorpio sign and eighth house are afflicted. 


15. Mars and Venus being afflicted by malefic in fifth, seventh and 
tenth house. 


16. Mercury in Lagna with lords of 6th and 8th houses. 


17.Malefic in Lagna, lord of Lagna conjoined with or aspected by 
malefic and afflicted Venus in seventh or eighth house. 


18. Sun, Saturn and Venus in fifth house. 
19. Sixth lord in Lagna with Venus and 8th house afflicted. 
PILES 


Piles may be external or internal in type. External piles are covered 
by skin. In some cases both types may be present. Piles may be associated 
with pregnancy, urethrial stricture, and a few other conditions. Hereditary 
is an important factor. 


Bleeding from the rectum, often while defaecating is the symptom. 
Later discharge and pain may be associated if complications are present. 
Proctoscopic examinations is required to diagnose the condition. The 
bowels should be made regular and smooth by taking an ounce of paraffin 
liquid regularly at night. 


Piles which bleed only during defaecation are curable by injections. 
Constantly prolapsed piles and those where conservative treatment has 
failed require operating treatment. 


PILES AND FISTULA 


This disease is to be judged from seventh and eighth houses. libra and 
Scorpio signs are seats in natural zodiac, ruling the same. Mars is the 
significator for this disease. When Libra sign, Scorpio sign seventh and 
eighth houses, their lords and significator Mars be afflicted by conjunc- 
tions or aspects of malefics or when malefic Mars afflicts them by 
situation, conjunction, aspect etc and when the above houses and planets 


Groins and Genital Organs 323 


ruling Piles and Fistula make some relation with sixth house lord of sixth 
house or with any disease inflicting house or planet, they may be the 
appearance of Piles and Fistula. 


Few combinations for the same are: 

1, Saturn, Mars and lord of lagna in 12th house. 

2. If Mars jointly with lord of lagna aspects the 7th house. 

3. Mars in the 7th house conjoined with and aspected by malefic. 
4. 8th lord in the 7th house with a malefic without benefic aspect. 
5. Saturn in lagna and Mars in seventh house. 


6. Sun in Simha rashi and Venus in opposion, that is Kumbha rashi 
(THIS IS NEVER POSSIBLE). 


7. Malefic in 8th house, while Scorpio sign is afflicted. 
8. Mars in the eighth house, aspected by Saturn. 

9. Mars and Moon in the eighth house. 

10. Lord of lagna with Mercury aspecting tbe 6th house. 
11.Ketu in malefic lagna. 

12. Afflicted Sun in eighth house. 


13.Moonbeing aspected by Mars, in sixth or eighth house and Saturn 
in Lagna. 


14. Waning Moon in 8th house aspected by Saturn and Mars. 
15. Weak Moon in 8th house aspected by Saturn and Mars. 


16. Moon in Cancer and Scorpio navamsa afflicted by Mars and also 
aspected by malafic. 


17. Lords of lagna and 7th house, in eighth house, lord of eighth house 
in lagna and Mars, Saturn and Rahu in seventh house and also 
Moon afflicted. 


FISTULA-IN-ANO 


A Fistula -in-a no is a track lined by granulation tissue from a perianal 
abscess which has burst spontaneously or has been opened by an incision 


324 Astrology and Diagnosis 


without removing the lining to the abscess cavity. 


The fistula continues to discharge seldom if ever healing permanently 
without surgical aid, because of constant reinfection from the anal canal 
or the rectum, inadequate drainage and repeated movement of therelated 
musculature. 


Commonly, the principal symptom is a persistant purulent discharge 
that irritates the skin in the neighbourhood and causes discomfort. Often 
the history dates back for years. As long as the opening is large enough 
for the pus to escape, pain is not a symptom. Frequently there is a solitary 
external opening usually situated within one and a half inches of theanus, 
presenting as a small elevation with granulation tissue pouting from the 
mouth ofthe opening. 


Sometimes superficial healing occurs; pus accumulates and again an 
abscess forms and discharges through the same opening, on a new one. 
So there may be two or more external openings, usually grouped together 
on the right or left of the middle line, but occasionally when both ischio- 
rectal fossae are involved a horse shoe fistula results. 


As arole, there is much induration of thesin and subcutaneous tissues 
are around the fistula. On rectal examination occasionally an internal 
opening canbe felt as a module on the wall of theanal canal. Irrespective 
of the number of external openings, there is almost invariably but one 
internal opening. 


The insertion of a probe affords valuable information as to the 
direction of the main channel, and with a finger in the anal canal it may « 
be possible to feel the naked end of the probe protruding through the 
internal opening of the fistula. Treatment is surgical excision. 


: This is a case of PILES. 


. 1. Saturnis in Lagna and Moon and 
Mars are in the 8th house. 


2. 8th House of Moon is afflicted by 
Ketu, Mars and Saturn. 8th house 
of Lagna is also afflicted. 8th lord 
from Lagna, Sun and Moon are 
also afflicted. 


3. 7th House from Lagna, Sun and 
Moon and lords thereof are afflic- 
ted. 


Groins and Genital Organs 325 
4. Libra sign is afflicted by the aspect of Rahu. 


5. Mars, Karaka and 6th lord, is in the 8th house from Lagna and is 
conjoined with Moon. 


6. Lagna and Lord of Lagna, both are afflicted. 


In this horoscope Lagna and 8th house are heavily afflicted. Moreover 
karaka Mars is in the 8th from Lagna and he himself is lord of the 6th. 


NOAA This is a case of PILES. 
1. Mars is in the 7th house aspected 


by maleficss. Saturn is in Lagna 

and Mars is in the 7th house. Fur- 

ther Mars Karaka planet is afflic- 
rox ted. 


2. Libra and Scorpio signs are afflic- 
ted by aspects of malefics. 


3. Seventh house and lord thereof is 
afflicted; 7th house from Sun and Moon and lords thereof are also 
afflicted. 


4. 8th houses from Lagna and Moon are hemmed between malefics. 
8th house from Sunis also afflicted. Lords of 8th houses from Sun, 
Moon and Lagna are afflicted. Further 8th Lord from Lagna is 
conjoines with 6th lord Mercury. 


This is a case of strangulated HER- 
NIA. 


© 10 1. Moon is weak and is conjoined 
MOON with sixth lord Mercury and is also 
pei afflicted by conjunction and asp- 

ect of malefics. She is further con- 

joined with the lord of the 6th 


house from Moon. 


2. 7th house from Moon is conjoined 

with malefic Ketu and is aspected 

by sixth lord Mercury. 7th house fromSun is hemmed between malefics 
and 7th lord Sun is afflicted. 


32 


aN 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


3. 7th Lord from Lagna is afflicted by aspect of Rahu. 
4. Mars, Lord of Lagna, is afflicted by aspect of Saturn and Rahu. 


In this chart, though Libra sign is 7th house from Lagna is not afflicted, 
the other factors are stronger and are capable of inflicting the disease of 
HERNIA. He suffered from the disease when Saturn was transiting 
through Libra sign and Rahu was transiting over radical Moon. This is 
also a case of PILES. The reasons for the same are Scorpio sign which 
is also the 8th house from Lagna is conjoined with malefic Saturn and is 
aspected by Mars. 7th and 8th houses from Sun and Moon are also 
afflicted in this horoscope. 


This is a case of VENEREAL DIS- 

EASE. 

1. Scorpio sign is afflicted by Saturn 
and. Mars. 


2. Lagna and lord of Lagna are afflic- 
ted by Saturn. 8th houses from 


Lagna, Sun and Moon are afflicted. 
8th lords from Lagna, Sun and 
Moon are also afflicted. 


3. Venus is afflicted by Satum and Rahu. 


4. Scorpio sign which is also the Lagna, is afflicted by aspect of 6th 
lord, by conjunction of Saturn etc suggesting the disease. 


This is a case of VENEREAL DIS- 
' EASE. 

1.Scorpio sign is aspected by 
. talefics. 


2. 8th house from Lagna, Sun and 
Moon are afflicted. 8th lords 
thereof are also afflicted. Further 
8th lord from Moon is in the 6th 


house from Moon. 


Groins and Genital Organs 327 
3. Venus is in 6th house being heavily afflicted. 
4. 6th lord from Lagna is with Mars unaspected by benefics. 
5.Mars and Venus are in the 6th house with another malefic. 


Thus all the planets and houses ruling venereal disease are heavily 
afflicted in this chart. 7th house and Venus rule the semen. 7th house in 
this chart is hemmed in between malefics and 7th lord is in 8th house 
conjoined with Sun and aspected by malefics Saturn and Rahu. 


OA ar This is a case of HYDROCELE. 
1. Rahu is in 8th house aspected by 


malefic. 

2. Scorpio is afflicted. 

3. 8thhouse from Lagna, Sun and 
Moon are afflicted. 8th lords 


thereof are also afflicted. 


Thus we find all factors ruling Hydrocele are afflicted in this Chart. 


This is horoscope of female who 
suffers from severe PAIN AT THE 
TIME OF MENSTRUAL DIS- 


CHARGE. 

1. 6thhouse is aspected by Rahu and 
Satum and is also afflicted by con- 
junction of malefic Moon and 


‘ Mars. Further lord of the 6th house 
VEN Venus is afflicted by them. Lords 
MARS MOON of the 7th and 8th houses Mars and 
Jupiter, are afflicted. 


2. 6th, 7th and 8th houses fromMoon and lords thereof are afflicted. 
6th, 7th and 8th houses from Sun and Lords thereof are afflicted. 


3. Virgo and Libra signs are afflicted. 


4. Moon is with Mars in the sixth house combined with sixth lord 


% 


‘328 As trology and Diagnosis 


Venus. She is further aspected by powerful Saturn and Rahu, Mars 
another Karaka is in 6th house with sixth lord afflicted by Satur 
and Rahu. Satur Karaka for pains is also afflicted by aspect of 
malefic Mars from 6th house. 


5. Lord of Lagna is in the 6th house with Moon and Mars and is 
aspected by powerful Saturn and Rahu. 


Libra sign roles Uterus, ovaries, menstrual periods ate and Moon and 
Mars rule over menstrual discharge, and Venus karaka for ovaries. They 
are all heavily afflicted in this chart by strong Satum and Rahu. 


This is a male horoscope suffering 


N77 Xe from IMPOTENCY. 

1. 7thlordis in 6th house with Venus 

and is heavily afflicted. 
2. 6th lord, Venus and Mercury are in 
6th house and are afflicted by lord 

¥ of Lagna. 
MOON 
x KETV) 3. Libra sign is afflicted by aspect of 
ra malefic. 
(iy 


4. 7th house from Lagna, Moon and Sun are afflicted. 


5. Venus, the karaka planet, is lord of dusthana and is in 6th house with 
lord of 6th house. Further she is conjoined with two impotent 
planets Satam and Mercury and is also afflicted by malefic. 


Thus planets and houses governing potency in a male are afflicted in 
this chart. 


This lady has no issue. She also 
suffered from SEXUAL INABILI- 
TIES. 


_ 1. 7thhouse is afflicted by situation 
' of 6th lord and aspected by Rahu. 


2. 7th lord is debilitated and afflic- 
ted. 


3. Libra is afflicted by malefics. 


Groins and Genital Organs 329 


4. Capricorn sign, 7th house from Sun and Moon and lords thereof are 
afflicted. 


5, Weak and heavily afflicted Moon is in her own house. Karaka Mars 
is weak and debilitated and afflicted and also strongly aspected by 
sterile planet Saturn. 


6. 5th house from Lagna is afflicted by malefics and lord thereof is also 
afflicted. 5th house of natural zodiac, Leo sign, is afflicted. 


7. Lords of 5th houses from Sun and Moon both being Mars- is weak, 
debilitated and afflicted. 


Thus planets ruling 5th and 7th houses are strongly afflicted in this 
horoscope. 


A case of profuse bleeding at the 

time of MENSTRUATION. 

1. 6thhouse from Lagna is aspected 
by malefics Mars and Saturn and 


also by 8th lord Mercury. 6th lord 
is also afflicted. 7th house is con- 
joined with Rahu and 7th lord is 
with Ketu. 8th house and its lord 

Vea a both are hemmed between male- 
fics. 5th house is aspected by 
Rahu. 


2. 6th and 7th houses from Moon are aspected by malefics. 8th house 
is afflicted by sixth house lord from Moon. Further 8th lord is in 6th 
house from Moon. 


3. 6th, 7th and 8th houses from Sun lords thereof are afflicted. 


4. Virgo sign is hemmed between malefics and is also aspected by 
Rahu. Libra Sign is conjoined with malefic. Scorpio signis hemmed 
between malefics. 


5. Moon, Karaka planet, is afflicted by conjunction of Satum, Mars, 
another karaka, is aspected by Saturn and Rahu. 


6. Ketu is afflicting Lagna and Sun. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


0 
This is acase ULCERS IN GENI- 
TAL ORGAN. 
1. 8th house from Lagna, Sun and 
Moon and lords thereof are afflic- 
s 


ted. Further 8th lord from Lagna 


being Mars is with malefic and 6th. 
UN lord Mercury. Two strong malefics 
“ Saturn and Ketu are in 8th house 


2. Scorpio sign is afflicted by con- 
junction of Saturn and Ketu. 


3. Mars, Karaka, is afflicted by 6th lord Mercury. Mercury another 
karaka is afflicted by 8th lord Mars. 


Thus we find the houses and planets ruling Genital Organs are 


afflicted in this horoscope and affliction of Mars and Mercury along with 
the houses ruling genital organs are capable of producing Ulcers there. 


This is a female horoscope sufferig 
Noo ora from TUMOUR IN UTERUS. 
1. Malefics are in the 7th house and 
7th lord is afflicted. 


2. Mars, Karaka, for disease in fe- 
male organs, who is also Karaka 
for Tumour is afflicted by Rahu 
and further is afflicting the 7th 
house and its Lord. 


3. 7th houses from Sun and Moon and lords thereof are afflicted. 
4. Libra sign is conjoined with malefic Moon. 
5. Lord of Lagna is in the 8th house and Lagna is also afflicted. 


Thus we find factors ruling the diseases in female organs are afflicted 
and are capable of producing Tumours in Uterus. 


Groins and Genital Organs 331 


This is a case of DISEASEIN OVA- 
RIES AND UTERUS. She under- 
went an operation when Saturn was 
transiting through Libra sign and 
Rahu through Capricorn sign, in her 
Jupiter dasa and bhukti of Venus. 


1. Ketu is in 7th house aspected by 

lord of 6th house Saturn. Further 

Hx 7th lord Jupiter is with malefics 
aspected by Rahu. 


2. Libra signis afflicted by malefics and aspected by Rahu from Virgo 
sign. 


3. Mars, Karaka, for female organs, is aspected by Rahu from Virgo 
sign Venus, Karaka, for ovaries is aspected by 6th lord Saturn. 


4. Aries sign, 7th house from both Sun and Moon is afflicted by 
malefics and also by Jupiter sixth lord from Sun and Moon. Further 
Mars, lord of the house, is afflicted by Rahu from Virgo sign. 


Thus all the houses and planets ruling Uterus and Ovaries are heavily 
afflicted. Further all the planets have formed KALA-SARPA Yoga. 


Ne <7 This is a case of GALL BLADDER. 
1. Virgo sign is afflicted by Rahu. 

2. 6th house is afflicted by malefics. 

6th houses from Sun and Moon are 


also afflicted. 

3. Lord of 6th house from Moon is 
afflicted by malefics. Lord of 6th 
house from Sun is hemmed be- 
tween malefics. 

4. Sun and Mercury, karaka are aspected by malefics Rahu and Saturn. 
Further they are in dusthana and are also afflicting the 6th house. 


5. Satum, Karaka for stones, is aspected by Rahu from Virgo sign. 


6. Lagna is hemmed between malefics. 


332 Astrology and Diagnosis 


The person suffered from STONES 


IN KIDNEY and underwent an op- 
eration. 


I.Saturn, lord of 6th house and 
karaka for stones is afflicting the 
seventh house by aspect. Saturn is 
furtheraspectingthe 7th lord. Rahu 

2 is aspectingthe 7th house fromthe 


MOON 6th house. 
TON a 2. Libra signis afflicted by aspects of 


Saturn and Rahu. 


3. Jupiter, a karaka is aspected by Saturn, who is lord of the6th. Moon 
another karaka is afflicted by conjunction of the 8th lord and malefic 
Mars. Sun, Karaka, for abdomen is aspected by Rahu from the 6th 
house Mercury another karaka is also afflicted. 


4. 7th house from Sun is aspected by sixth lord from Sun; Jupiter lord 
of 7th house fromSunisaspected by malefic and also by Satum, 8th 
lord from Sun. 


5. 7th house from Moon is aspected by 8th lord from the Moon. 


These factors are liable to give rise to disease of kidney. Affliction of 
7th house, lord of 7th house, Libra sign etc by sixth lord Saturn suggest 
stone in kidney. Association of Mars with Moon justifies the operation. 


Ne Balance of Ketu dasa at birth. 5y .7d. 
9 

She has been attacked from disease 

stone in gall bladder in Rahu dasa, 

Rahu bhukti. We know the seat of 


gall bladder is Virgo sign and 6th 
house. Karaka for abdomen is Sun 
and karaka for gall bladder is Mer- 
cury. Affliction or association of 
Ven Va Saturn may give rise to stone in gall 
bladder. Ketu’s or Rahu's affliction 


may give rise to stone in gall bladder. 
Ketu's or Rahu's affliction may add to the disease with severe pain. 


Groins and Genital Organs 333 


1. Virgo sign is conjomed with malefic Rahu and maraka Venus. 
Hence Virgo sign is afflicted. 


2. 6th house from Lagna is aspected by malefic Sun and Mercury. 
3. Virgo sign sixth from Moons is conjoined with Rahu and Venus. 


4. Mercury lord of the6th house fromMoon is aspected by Rahu and 
Saturn. 


5. 6th house fromSun is conjoined with Ketu and aspected by Saturn, 
Mars Rahu and malefic Venus. 


6. Sixth lord from Sun is hemmed between malefics Saturnand Ketu, 


7. Sun, a karaka for all stomach diseases, is also a karaka for gall 
bladder, is debilitated, conjoined with 8th lord and is aspected by 
Rahu and Saturn. 


8. Mercury, karaka for diseases in gall bladder is lord of evil house, 
is with malefic Sun, is combusted by Sun and is also aspected by 
Rahu from Virgo house of Mercury and also by strong Saturn. 


9. Sun and Mercury, both the karakas, are in dusthana from Lagna. 


10. Mercury is lord of 8th and 1 1thhouses from Lagna, lord of 3rd and 
6th house from Moon, and lord of 12 house from Sun, and is aspec- 
ted by strong malefic Satum. Saturn's aspect over Sun suggests 
stone in gall bladder and Rahu's aspect suggests lingering and 
painful disease. 


Rahu is in Virgo, a house of disease and is afflicting both the karaka 
planets and sixth houses from Moon and Sun. Further it is aspecting 
Satum, karaka for stones. Rahu is also with karaka Venus and Rahu 
himself becomes maraka disease inflicting planet. It is quite natural, she 
was attacked fromthe disease in Rahu dasa and Rahu bhukti. 


This is a case of the person who 
ScC/ N77 suffered from stones in urinal pas- 
sage. 


1.Mars is in the 7th house conjoined 
with and aspected by malefics. 


2.Moon is in Aries sign aspected by 
malefic without benefic aspects. 
3. Libra sign is afflicted by Rahu, 
Mars and Saturn; Scorpio is afflic- 
- ted by Rahu. 


ses 


Y 
D 


334 Astrology and Diagnosis 


4. 7th and 8th houses from Lagna, Moon and Sunare afflicted. 7th and 
8th lords from Lagna, Moon and Sun are afflicted by malefics. 


5. Mars,a karaka, is conjoined with malefic and is aspected by malefic 
Satum. Further it is aspected by 6th lord. Venus, another karaka, is 
in the 6th house, hemmed between malefics and is aspected by 
Rahu. 


6. Saturn, karaka for stone-ceing sixth lord -is afflicting the 7th house 
of Moon by aspect. It is further afflicting 8th house of Sun by aspect 
Saturn is also afflicting both the karakas Venus and Mars. 


7. Watery signs particularly pisces sign -7th house from Lagna-are 
afflicted by malefic aspect. 


Thus many factors ruling Urinal diseases and stone in urinal passage 
2 strongly afflicted in this horoscope and are capable to produce the 
sease of stone in Urinal passage. 


CHAPTER 19 
OTHER DISEASES 


Fevers are of various types and are generally caused by affliction of 
karaka planets and their relation with 6th house, 6th lord, 8th lord, 12 lord 
and malefic planets. Typhoid, Pneumonia, Bronchitis, Influenza, Ma- 
laria, Meningitis, Black Water Fever etc are the different types of Fevers. 


PNEUMONIA 


PNEUMONIA - is caused by pneumococus, characterised by inflam- 
mation of the lungs. Bronchiris is caused by caterial infection of the finer 
bronchi and their related lobules with inflammation of the bronchicles 
and smaller bronchi etc. Moon and Mars along with fourth house and 
Cancer sign rule the diseases of Pneumonia. When these are afflicted, are 
in any way related with evil house, evil lord and malefics and are also 
related with disease inflicting house or planet, they result into Pneumo- 
nia. 


MUMPS 


Mumps is contageous disease caused by a virus. The disease usually 
affects youngsters between the ages of five and fifteen. One attach gives 
immunity for a long period. It starts with fever and headache. Swelling 
of one of both parotid glands occur. The swelling is in front of the ear 
labule. It takes about a week for the swelling to disappear. Orchitis is 
common in adults though not so common before puberty. Pain and 
swelling of the affected tests are noted. Hydrocele may be present. 
Usually one side is affected and it subsides after some ten days. In some 
cases there may be slight atrophy. Sterility almost never occurs because 
the infection is such that the whole testis is never involved. 


PARKINS'S DISEASE 


Parkinson's disease results from lack of muscular control. The paucity 
and muscular rigidity are the first signs to appear. The rigidity affects the 
face, neck and trunk to the greater extent, than the limbs. The face 
assumes a fixed mask-like expression, the voice looses its inflexion and 
becomes monotonous. The person is forced to walk like a statue without 
the usual free movement of limbs. Tremors are present. Hence the disease 
is also known as shaking oalsy. The progress of thedisease is very slow. 
Hence activity may be maintained for a long time. Artane (5to 10 mg 
daily ) or Pacitane may be taken. 


336 Astrology and Diagnosis 


MALARIA 


Malaria is a protozoal disease with paraxysms of intermittent fever 
continued with marks remission and suffer from anaemia and enlarged 
spleen. Mars and Jupiter govern this disease. When they are afflicted, 
badly placed, conjoined with evil lords or malefics etc and are in any way 
related with a disease inflicting house orplanet, they give rise to Malaria. 


TYPHOID 


Complications of Typhoid fever are haemorrhage and perforation of 
the Bowel. Peritonitis may occur with or without perforation. Intestinal 
haemorrhage and epistaxis or bleeding from nose may occur. 


Thrombosis and phlebitis may occur in any vein especially of the 
limbs. Hepatitis with Jaundice can occur. Acule cholecystitis and forma- 
tion of gallstones are rare complications. Infections of the respiratory 
tract, particularly Bronchitis occurs during the early stage of typhoid. 


Broncho-pneumonia may occur in the later stage. Arthritis and other 
periosteal and osseous infections may occur. In about one-fourth of the 
cases, infection of the urinary tract occurs. Cutaneous lesions such as 
boils, bedsores, urticarial rashes, herpes, grooving of the nails are other 
lesions that occur at times. 


Nervous complications are relatively common and such symptoms as 
delirium stupor and mental depression are likely. Encephalities with 
aphesia, cholrea, hemiphlegia, optic neuritis and peripheral neuritis have 
been reported. Purulent menignitis and brain abscess are rare and often 
fatal. Hernias due to loss of muscle tone, may occur. 


The general feeling of fatique and depression thet persists can be got 
over by taking a diet rich in proteins, adequate intake of vitamins and 
minerals and proper exercise to tone the muscles. 


Typhoid is caused by general infection by typhoid bacillus, 
characterised anatomically by hyperplexia and ulceration of the internal 
follicles, swelling, mensenteric glands and spleen. Mercury, Jupiter and 
Venus are rulers of the diseases of the typhoid and para-typhoid, when 
these planets are afflicted in horoscope are lords of evil houses, are 
connected with evil houses by situation or are connected with malefic by 
conjunction or aspect and are in any related with 6th lord, sixth house, 
Virgo sign, disease inflicting house orplanet, etc., they give rise to the 
diseases of typhoid and para-typhoid. 


Other Diseases 337 


BLACK WATER FEVER 


Black Water Fever is ruled by Venus, Mars and Sun. When these 
planets are afflicted, badly placed, conjoined with lords of evil houyes and 
with malefics etc. and are related with Virgo sign, 6th house, lord of the 
6th house or with disease-inflicting house or planet, they produce the 
disease of Black Water Fever. 


Sun rules all heat generating and internal fevers. Fiery houses Aries, 
Leo, Sagittarius signs also work for these diseases. Affliction of Sun and 
fiery houses may give rise to such diseases. 


All fevers connecting blood are to be judged from houses and signs 
ruling blood i.e. 4th, 8th and 12th houses and Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces 
signs and also from affliction of Mars karaka for blood. 


All fevers as after effect of accidents are to be judged from Mars. 
Affliction of Mars, his situation in evil houses, conjunction, etc. with 
malefics and evil lords give rise to the same. 


All fevers connected with wound, ulcers, tumours, carbuncles etc., are 
ruled by Mercury and Mars. 


In cases of fevers with the symptoms of vomiting, Moon is found 
generaly afflicted. 


Rahu rules over epidemics. Affliction of Karaka planets and houses 
ruling fevers by malefic Rahu, may give rise to fevers of epidemics. 


Ketu and Satum are karaka for pains. Any fever connected with pains 
is to be judged from strength and situation of theabove planets and their 
afflictions over the karaka planets and houses. 


FTLARIASIS 


Filariasis is produced by Wuchereris bancrofiti carried by infected 
culex mosquito. Infection of blood is an important factor in this disease. 
The parasites are alive in the lymph vessels and lymphoid tissues. 
Inflammatory Filariasis is an allergic condition due to sensivity to the 
products of the living and dead adult worms. These cause inflammation 
of the spermatic cord and testis, lymphatics etc., which is accompanied 
by fiver, rigour, headache, vomiting and malaise. Elephantiasis is the end 
result of filariasis and it takes years to develop. Blood examination can 
usually detect the parasite. For Elephantiasis, operations are necessary. 


338 Astrology and Diagnosis 


Spraying the interiors of house with D.D.T. helps. Use of mosquito nets 
is necessary for preventing the disease. 


The watery signs Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces rule the blood along with 
4th, 8th, 12th house. When the above houses and signs, lords of 4th, 8th 
and 12th houses and Karaka Mars are afflicted, badly placed, conjoined 
with or aspected by evil lords and by malefics and are in some way related 
with disease-inflicting house of planet. They give rise to the disease 
Filaria. Rahu is an important planet for this disease and when the above 
houses, their lords and Mars be affected by Rahu by conjunction or aspect, 
it produces the similar disease. Fourth house is an important factor in 
ruling this disease and while judging the disease or Filaria, the fourth 
house and its lord should be taken into cosideratien. When 4th house is 
afflicted by malefics.and also by Mars, they also add to this disease. 


PLAQUE 


Plaque is a specific infectious disease, caused by bacillus pestis and 
occuring in two chief forms (a) bubonic, involving the lymphatic glands 
and a pneumonic causing an acute and rapid fatal inflammation of the 
lungs. Mars, Venus and Moon are Karaka planets forthe disease. Lagna, 
lord of Lagna, Sun and Aries sign are found heavily afflicted in the 
disease. When lagna, lord of lagna, Aries sign, and Sun, karaka planets, 
Mars, Moon and Venus are found heavily afflicted, badly placed, 
conjoined with malefics and evil lords, aspected by malefics and evil 
lords, and are related with Virgo sign, sixth house or with a disease- 
inflicting house or planet, they give rise to this disease. Rahu works for 
all epidemics and when Rahu makes some relation with the above, the 
disease comes from the epidemic. Atmakaraka planet in Aries sign and 
relation of them with sixth house or with any disease producing house or 
planet, give rise to this disease. In plague it is generally seen planets are 
heavily afflicted. Cancer sign also roles the lungs, and in case of the 
disease with inflammation of lungs Cancer sign is also seen aflicting. 


PARAPLEGIA 


Paraplegia means weakness of the lower limbs. It may be due to 
Tuberculosis of thespine, injuries, degenerative diseases, tumours of the 
spinal cords etc. Each case of paraplegia requires thorough investigation 
since some causes can be removed by surgical measures. Diagnosis will 
necessitate blood examination, X-ray of the spine, myelography, etc. 


Other Diseases 339 


EOSINOPHILIA 


Eosinophilia is the increase in eosinophil cells in the blood. The 
common variety is tropical eosinophilia. The symptoms are cough, 
breathlessness and body ache. Hetrazan (two tablets thrice a day for about 
two weeks) will cure the condition. Parasitic infestation, allergy, skin 
diseases and asthma can cause eosinophilia. Blood and stool examina- 
tions are essential. 


INFLUENZA 


Influenza is an acute infectious disease which is pendamic epidemic 
and endemic. Moon and Rahu are rulers for this disease. When these 
planets are afflicted badly placed, conjoined with malefics or evil lords 
and are in some way related with a disease-inflicting house orplanet, they 
result into the disease of Influenza. When malefic Rahu afflicts Moon and 
be related with a disease inflicting planet or house, it also produces similar 
disease. Mars also sometimes rule this disease and affliction of Moon and 
Mars or Moon being afflicted by malefic Mars may also result into the 
similar disease. 


HEMOPHILIA 


Hemophilia is a hereditary disorder of blood clotting. It is because of 
the efficiency of anti-haephilic factor is the plasma. In infancy the 
bleeding tendency is shown by appearance of swellings after minor 
trauma. Impaired movements of the affected joint results from bleeding. 
Haematuria and bleeding after tooth extraction occur. Diagnosis can be 
made after laboratory tests of blood clotting. 


GLANDULAR FEVER 


GLANDULAR FEVER- is characterised by slight redness of throat, 
high fever, swelling and tenderness of the lymph nodes of the neck etc. 
Venus and Mars are karaka for all glandular fever. When they are 
afflicted, badly placed aspected by malefics and evil lords, conjoined 
with evil lords and malefics and are related with a disease-inflicting house 
or planet, they produce the disease. Third house and Gemini sign also 
work for this disease and their strength and position are also to be 
considered. Affliction of these houses and third lord are not good for this 
disease. 


HEAT HYPERPYREXIA OR SUN-STROKE 


The most serious effect of heat is heat hyperpyrexia. It may occur 
suddenly and proceed to coma and convulsions. It may start gradually 


340 Astrology and Diagnosis 


with irritability malaise, headache and with polyuria, dryness of theskin, 
drowsiness, intolerance to light, tingling sensation and cramps in the 
limbs. 


The temperature may be moderately high but if untreated may rise to 
110 degrees F. Delirium which is present may progress to coma and 
convulsions. The face is flushed, pupils dilated and the breathing 
stertorous. Death may follow quickly with acute heart failure and oedema 
of the lungs. 


After recovery neurological signs may be seen and the temperature 
may stay at 102 to 103 degrees F forsome days. Heat Hyperpyrexia or 
Sun stroke may resemble cerebral form of Malaria, or may follow upon 
any otherserious illness. Cerebral haemorrhage in the pons also cancause 
hyperpyrexia. 


In unfavourable climatic conditions special care must be taken to 
restrict physical exertion to the morning and evening. Adequate rest and 
plenty of salt and water in the diet are essential. 


When any possibility of Malaria exists full doses of quinine are 
necessary at once. 


The temperature should be reduced and every step taken to increase 
heat loss. The patient should be placed where there is free circulation of 
air. He may be put into bath of cold or iced water upto the neck and 
massaged vigorously until the temperature falls to 103 degrees F. when 
the patient is wrapped up and ice packs applied to his neck. 


The salt depletion is made up by oral or rectal and intravenous 
administration of normal saline. The patient should be watched for three 
weeks. Bromides or barbiturates may be required. He should be sent to 
a place of lower temperature and must avoid any possibility of another 
attack for several months. 


A case of BLACK WATER FE- 
VER. 
MOON, 


RAHU{ = Venus, Sun and Mars rale the Black 
Water fever. Venus and Mars in this 
chart are in 6th and 8th houses re- 
spectively afflicted by Saturn lord of 
6th house. Venus and Sun are in 8th 
house from Moon with 8th lord from 
Moon and Mars is also aspected by 
8th lord from Moon. Strong malefic 


WK 
or 


y 


i 


Other Diseases 341 


Saturn is afflicting all the karaka planets Venus, Mars and Sun. The 
person suffered from the disease in his Venus Dasa and bhukti of Mars. 


This is a case of FILARIA. 


All the watery signs ruling blood are 
afflicted. 4th, 8th and 12th houses 
are also afflicted by malefics. 


8 
MOON Mars, karaka, forblood and Filaria is 
heavily afflicted. Moon, another 
karaka, for blood diseases is also 
a a afflicted. 


Rahu is afflicting all houses and 
signs ruling Filaria. Rahu is also afflicting Mars, Moon, and fourth lord. 
Rahu's aspect is highly malignant as it is in a sensitive sign and is 
influenced by malefics. 


6th lord is afflicting Scorpio and Pisces signs, 4th and 8th houses, and 
Mars, Moonand Rahu. Fourth house and fourth lord are heavily afflicted. 


This person died of PLAGUE. 


Lagna is afflicted by malefics and is 
also conjoined with 6th lord there- 
from. Lord of Lagna is afflicted by 
malefic Saturn. Venus, Moon and 
Mars are afflicted. Venus is a maraka 
planet and isconjoined with 6th lord 
Mercury. Mars, Satum and Rahu are 
also afflicting her. 


Moonis very weakand is afflicted by 
Mars, Saturn, Rahu and is also conjoined with sixth lord from Lagna and 
from Moon. 


Mars, another karaka, is afflicted by Malefic Saturn. Aries sign is 
afflicted. Sun is in dusthana. 


Thus we find houses and planets ruling the disease are afflicted 
heavily. Further they are related with Rahu suggesting disease from 
Epidemic. 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


This is a case of TYPHOID. 


1. Mercury is with malefics Sun. 
Venus is conjoined with 6th lord 
and malefic Mars and is aspected 
by Rahu from a sensitive sign 
Pisces. Venus is in Virgo sign. 


2. Jupiter is aspected by Rahu and 
Satum. Rahu is aspecting from a 
sensitive sign and Saturn is 

aspecting from dusthana. Jupiter is malefic for this Lagna and is in 6th and 

aspected by 8th lord. 


3. Venus is lord of 6th house from Moon and is conjoined with lora 
of 12th house from Moon. 


4. Jupiter is lord of 8th house from Moon and is afflicted. 


Thus we find the planets Venus, Jupiter and Mercury, Venus and 
Jupiter particularly are afflicted in this chart. They are related with 
disease inflicting houses. He was attacked from the fever during Saturn 
Dasa and bhukti of Saturn. 


This is a case in which the person is 
Res suffering from MALARIA AND 
PARA-TYPHOID both- 


1. Mars and Jupiter, karaka for Ma- 
laria, are in opposition affecting 
Lagna and are related with Sun, 
be karaka for fever. 


yur 
2. Mars and Jupiter are lords of 
dusthana, Mars is aspected by Rahu 


from an evil house. Rahu's aspect 
is highly malignant as it is conjoined with Saturnand is aspected by 
sixth lord. 


3. Jupiter's aspect over Mars and his affliction by Sun suggest diseases 
Mars is sixth lord from the Sun. Therefore his aspect over Jupiter 
indicates disease. 


Other Diseases 343 


4. The reasons for Para-Typhoid are:- 
Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are karaka for typhoid. Here Mercury 
is in 8th house aspected by Rahu from the 6th house. Venus is in the 
6th house and he is lord of 6th house. He is conjoined with Ketu and 
is aspected by Saturn and Rahu from evil house. 


5. Jupiter is the lord of 8th house and is aspected by evil Mars. 


6.Rahu is afflicting both Venus and Mercury from 6th house from Sun 
and 8th house from Moon. Saturn also aspects Venus from 6th house 
from Sun. 


Thus we find planets and houses ruling Mala ria and typhoid fever are 
afflicted. The native was attacked from Malaria in Rahu Dasa and Jupiter 
bhukti. He was attacked from Para-typhoid in Rahu Dasa, Satur bhukti. 


COMBINATIONS PRODUCING DISEASES 


1. INSANITY: - Jupiter in the Ascendant and Saturn in the 7th. Jupiter 
in the Ascendant and Mars in the 7th. Saturn in the Lagna and Mars in 7th, 
6th or 9th house. The weak Moon and debilitated Mercury in the Lagna. 
The weak Moon and Saturn in the 12th. The weak Moon in conjunction 
with malefics occupying Ist, 5th, 8th or 9th house. Mercury in combina- 
tion with malefics occupying 3rd, 6th, 8th or [2th house. Jupiter and 
Saturn in the 12th house. Care should always be taken in considering the 
above combinations. When the combinations are not full and strong, there 
will no insanity but the brain of the native will be affected causing some 
sort of trouble to the brain. 


2. HYSTERIA:- Saturnand Rahu inthe 8th and other malefics in the 
5th and 9th. The Sun and Mars in Anishta houses, Rahu and Satum in the 
8th house. 


3. PYORRHOEA:- Aries, Taurus or Sagittarius ascendants aspected 
by strong malefics. 


4. EPILEPSY:- The Moon in conjunction with Saturn aspected by 
Mars and the Sun being very weak. 


5. CANCER:- Constellation Ashlesha is related to the Ascendant or 
the 6th house and afflicted by Mars. Cancer sign stands for Cancer 


344 Astrology and Diagnosis 


disease. When its lord happen?, to be the lord ofthe 6th or 8th and afflicted, 
the native will have Cancer. When the Moon is afflictedby malefics being 
aspected or associated with the lord of 6th or 8th, Cancer is indicated. 


6, ASTHMA:- The Moon between Saturn and Mars and the Sun in 
Capricorn. 


7, TUBERCULOSIS:- At birth the Sun and the Moon in mutual 
reception by sign and Navamsa or both of them in either Leo or Cancer. 
Also if Satum and Mandi occupy the 6th house and are aspected by the 
Sun, Mars, Saturn or Rahu without benefics aspects and Conjunction. 
Also if Rising Sun is aspected by Mars. 


8. RHEUMATISM:- The Moon in the 6th is with or aspected by 
strong malefics. 


9. PILES:- The Moon with malefics in the 8th and the lord aspected 
by Rahu, the 8th house associated with three or four malefics without 
benefic aspects. 


10. APPENDICITIS:- Affliction of Jupiter in Pisces or Satum in 
Virgo or Pisces, or Rahu in Scorpio or Mars in Gemini or Virgo, and the 
above afflictions happening in the 6th or the 8th house. The 6th house is 
subjected to powerful Papakartari yoga. The Moon being posited in 
Virgo, Scorpio or Aquarius and subject to malefic influences receiving 
the aspect of Saturn, Mars or Rahu or being associated with any of these 
three planets. 


11. JAUNDICE:- Lord of the2nd house or the Moon afflicted by the 
Lord of the 6th house or when the 2nd house if afflicted by the lord of the 
6th house (being the Moon). 


12. DUMBNESS:- A very weak Mercury aspected by or conjoinev 
with malefics, specially Saturn and at the same time the lord of the 2nd 


house is also weak, the above houses are occupied and aspected by 
malefics. 


13. BORN DEAF:- Malefies in debilitation occupying the 11 th hous< 
or the 3rd house with no benefic aspects. 


14. BLINDNESS:- The Sun and Rahu occupying the Ascendant and 


Other Diseases 345 


or 12th, having no beneficial aspect on these combinations. The Sun and 
the Moon inthe [2th house. Malefics inthe 6th or 8th havingno beneficial 
aspects. The Moon in the 6th, the Sun in the 8th and Saturn in the 12th 
house and Mars in the 2nd house. 


15. TWINS: - The Moon is Scorpio getting Mercury's aspect (Mercury 
being placed in Taurus) either of them lord of the 5th, while in Moon's 
period and Mercury's sub-period or in Mercury's period and Moon's sub- 
period, the birth of Twins occur. 


16. HERNIA:- If Ketu and Mars are afflicted by malefics or when 
they occupy the 6th orthe 8th, rupture is causes. When Scorpio or Pisces 
are afflicted, then also Hernia is caused. 


17. HYDROCELE:- Mars is the chief significator ofHydrocele. This 
disease is of Genital organs (testicles in particular). Astrologically this 
part of the body is governed by the sign Scorpio and also by the 8th house. 
Naturally these two have to be seriously considered. The 8th house as well 
as Scorpio if found afflicted, causes the disease. The other combinations 
for this disease are Saturn, Mars and Rahu in the Ascendant, ruler of the 
horoscope with Rahu, Mandi inthe 8th house and Rahu inthe Ascendant, 
Gulika in trine and Mars with Saturnin the 8th house. 


18. LEPROSY:- If the Moon is afflicted by Saturnin Aries and Mars 
also has influence over the Moon. Saturn and Mars in the 12thand the 2nd 
the Moon in tbe Ascendant and Saturn in 7th. Malefics (excepting 
Ascendant) lord in the Ascendant and the Moon in conjunction with 
Satum or Mars in the navamsa of Cancer, Pisces or Capricorn having no 
aspect or conjunction of benefics. Besides, this, several other combina- 
tions for Leprosy have been given by authors which are not of much 
importance. 


19. SYPHILIS:- When Venus happens to the lord of the6th or when 
Virgo happens to be the 6th house and is badly afflicted by malefics. 


20. GONORRHOEA:- The Moon in watery sign and lord of thesign 
in the 6th house being afflicted by malefics occupying watery signs. 


COMBINATIONS CAUSING DEATH BY ACCIDENTS 


I. SNAKE-BITE:- Lord of the 8th in Sarpa-Drekkana and the 8th 
being decante in Libra or 2nd Drekkana in Capricorn. In the latter 
combination though there will be no chance of death by snake-bite, the 
native will be bitten by Cobra. 


346 Astrology and Diagnosis 


2. DROWNING:- Sagittarius and Pisces being the 8th house when 
Jupiter is subject to evil influences in bad vargas. Lord of the 8th has the 
3rd Drekkana in Virgo sign. 


3. SUICIDE:- The Moon and the lord of theSth afflicted and at the 
same time being badly placed with malefic aspects. 


4. HANGING:- Saturn in Taurus in conjunction with a malefic. Lord 
of the 8th house in Sarpa Drekkana with no beneficial aspect. 


5, SMALL-POX: - Mars and Rahu exercising evil influence on the 8th 
& its lord. 


6. SUN-STROKE:- The weak Sun in the 8th,-in a malefic house 
without benefic aspect, 


7. SURGICAL OPERATION OF FISTULA:- Saturn in the 8th 
house with the weak Moon and aspected by weak Mars. 


8.IN PRISON:- Satum aspecting the Sun or Moonrising. Two strong 
malefics in the 5th and 9th with no benefic aspects. 


Generally diseases have been allotted to the 6th house from Lagna and 
as such before applying the above noted combinations, one should be very 
cautious and consider the inherent strength of the 6th house, its lord, 
planets in the 6th and aspects on the 6th house. Side by side attempts 
should be made not to ignore the beneficial position of the Ascendant, its 
lord, and other special yogas which counteract the evil results of the6th 
and its occupants. 


Broadly speaking, diseases are of three kinds, viz Physical, mental 
and accidental. Physical diseases produce abnormal conditions of the 
body mental diseases are caused by non-attainment of desired objects and 
accession to those which are disliked. Accidental diseases are caused by 
actions of Spirits, of prison, of wind, and of violence done to the body. 


It should always be remembered that, if the Sun, the Moonand Lagna 
are well-placed and possess strong beneficial aspects, they are productive 
of good results, counteracting evil combinations. 


SOME MISCELLANEOUS COMBINATIONS FOR SPECIAL 
KINDS OF DISEASES. 


I. Lord of 6th with a malefic in Lagna or inthe 8th house gives wounds 
and cuts. 


Other Diseases 347 


2.Lord of Lagna with Mars and Mercury in the 4th or 12th gives 
suffering due to Piles, fistula or Leprosy. 


3.If lord of the6th is with Venus in the 6th, then his wife will be barren. 


4. Moon, Mercury and lord of Lagna with Rahu and the Sun (or Mars 
or Saturn) or in his Varga gives black Leprosy (Syphilis). 


5. If lord of the6th be with Mars, the trouble will be due to gangrenous 
growth. 


6. If the 6thlord is with Budha (Mercury) in Lagna, he will have some 
trouble with genital organs. 


7. If lord of the 6th is with Saturn, devoid of benefic aspects or 
combinations, it results cutting off the genital organs due to any 
cause. 


8. If lord of the6th is with the Sun, the disease is fever; if with Moon, 
danger from water, if with Mars, in warfare or of Small-pox. If with 
Mercury, due to billious complaints; if with Jupiter, it is a case of 
being generally healthy; if with Venus, a sickly wife or death of 
wife; if with Saturn, gout, rheumatism, bad windy complaints, 
paralytic strokes; if with Rahu or Ketu, diseases of head, thefts, fire, 
infectious or contagious diseases. 


ENEMIES AND FRIENDS 


1. If lord of 6 be aspected by benefics or in a benefic planet's house 
he will become friendly with enemies. 


2. If lord of 6 be in 6,8 or [2 with debilitated or combust planets, while 
lord of Lagna is strong, he wins over his enemies. 


3. If lord of 6th be in Gopuramsa, aspected by the Sun, lord of 6th 
strong he will be helpful to his blood relations. 


4. If lord of 9th in the 6th be aspected by lord of the 6th and if lord of 
the 6th be joined by Saturn and Mars, then loss is due to theft of 
arson. 


5. If the lord of Lagna in the 6th be aspected by the lord of the 6th or 
if both be in Lagna, then there will be constant trouble from blood 
relations. 


348 Astrology and Diagnosis 


6. If lord of Lagna is in Parivartana, aspected by benefics and lord of 
6th be weak then the native gains through blood relations. 


7. If Jupiter, Venus and Lord of Lagna be with lord of 6th, aspected 
by Rahu, Satur or Mars, there will be constant troubles from blood 
relations. 


8. If lord of 6th is with malefic, in malefic navamsa, debiliated, com- 
busts, or devoid of benefic aspects, then his blood relations will 
vanish. 


9. If lord of Lagna be strong, benefics be in 6 or 8, Jupiter in quadrant 
or trine, then the native lives with his blood relations. 


10. There will be hoard of blood relations if lord of the 6th is Jupiter 
with shubhas or aspected by them in good Navamsa. 


TASTES 


1. If a benefic in the 6th is aspected by benefics and if lord of the 6th 
be with benefics, and between two or more malefics, he will be fond 
of many dishes, with pickles, chutneys etc. 


2. If lord of 6th be Jupiter or Mercury or in their houses, then also he 
will be fond of pickles. 


3. If Jupiter be inthe 6th or Venus its lord, thenalso he will like sweets. 


4. If Venus be in the 6th with Mercury and good aspects be there, or 
in good Navamsa, then he takes sweets daily. 


5. If 6th is with malefics or badly aspected, then he dislikes sweet 
things. 


6. Iflord of 6th is aspected by the Sun, then he will be fond of Ghee 
and Ghee preparations. 


MUSCULAR ATROPHY 


The cause of personal muscular atrophy is not known. It runs in 
families. The first symptoms are muscular wasting and weakness. 
Usually the muscles of thelower limbs are first affected. Later those of 
hands are involved. The muscles of the head and trunk are usually free 
from the attack. The sensations of touch and pain may be affected. There 
is no specific treatment for the condition. Massage and exercise will help 
to some extent. 


CHAPTER 20 
DISEASES IN HORARY ASTROLOGY 


PRELIMINARY 


Horary branch of Astrology is the method of judging a horoscope 
calculated for the time of question. It also gives miraculous results. This 
can be applied to also to determine the diseases. When more than one 
question are to be judged during one and same Lagna, the first question 
is to be judged from Lagna, the second from the fourth house, third from 
seventh house and fourth from tenth house, fifth from fifth house sixth 
from eighth house, seventh from eleventh house and eighth from second 
house. 


When a question is to be judged as regards any disease whether a 
person is suffering from any disease or not, this should be decided from 
Lagna, Moon sixth house and lord of sixth house. 


If Moon or Lord of Lagna be in sixth house, or sixth lord be with the 
Moon or Lord of Lagna, of sixth lord be in Lagna, it suggests one is 
suffering from disease. If sixth house be a movable sign, the disease is 
ordinary, and in case it is fixed sign, the disease is serious. If it is a dual 
sign and if the sixth sphuta (sixth bhava madhya) be within first fifteen 
degrees of the sign, the disease is serious and if it is in the second I5 
degrees of the sign, it is not serious. If Moon be in the 3rd, 6th, [Oth or 
11th house and malefics be in Ist, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th, 9th and JOth houses 
and if Lagna be aspected by malefics, it suggests one is suffering from 
disease. If Lagna be fiery sign or be in a fiery navamsa, it suggests either 
the person is suffering from disease or will be attacked from the same 
soon. 


HOW TO DETERMINE THE NATURE OF THE DISEASE 


Nature of disease can be ascertained from8th house, lord of 8th house 
and planet occupying the 8th house etc. Strongest of these planets will rule 
the nature of the disease. Strength of planets in the 8th house, aspecting 
8th house and lord of 8th house suggest the nature of thedisease and will 
be like that ruled by the planets. The part of the body, which will be 
affected, will be the part ruled by the house or rashi where the strongest 
of the above planets is situated or is afflicting. 6th house, lord of the 6th 
house, planets aspecting the 6th house, planets related with the lord of the 
6th house also govern disease. 


380 Astrology and Diagnosis 


The Karakatwas (rulership) of the planets over the diseases and the 
parts of the body ruled by the planets, rashis and houses have been 
discussed elsewhere and the same should be applied also in the case of 
Horary Astrology. The number of planets on both sides of Lagna and ford 
of Lagna, and number of planets related with the 6th and 8th houses and 
with their lords suggest the number of diseases from which the person in 
question is suffering or will suffer. While judging diseases, one must take 
into consideration whether the planet causing diseases is malefic or 
benefic from the Lagna and the house where from the horoscope is being 
judged. The benefics will do much less evil and may not even inflict 
disease at all. 


COMBINATION FOR DISEASES 


There are many combinations for diseases in Horary Astrology, some 
of which are given below. While applying these, one must take into 
consideration, whether the combining planets are benefics or malefics 
and also the strength of their affliction. 


1. If Saturn be inthe 8th house, or aspects the sameand another malefic 


planet aspects the 8th house, it suggests INSANITY OR PARALY- 
SIS. 


2.If Sun and Rahu be in the 8th house, it causes GOUTS and 
RHEUMATIC DISEASES. 


3. If Satum and Ketu be in the 8th house, they cause RHEUMATIC 
DISEASES. 


4. If Sun and Rahu aspect the 8th house, they cause similar diseases. 
5. Ketu in 8th house aspected by Saturn causes similar diseases. 


6. If Saturn and Rahu be in 8th house or aspect the same, they give rise 
to similar diseases. 


7.1f Saturn and malefic strongly aspect the 8th house, they produceGS 
INSANITY and diseases of NERVES. 


8.If Sun be in the eighth house, it suggests FEVER and HEAT 
GENERATING DISEASES. 


9. Mercury in the eighth house causes TYPHOID. 
10. If Saturn be in 8th house with malefic, they cause MALARIA. 


11. Jupiter in the eighth hemmed between malefic causes MALA- 
RIA 


Horary Astrology 351 


12.Moon in 8th house between malefic causes TYPHOID. 


13. Sun in 2nd causes FEVER and HEAT GENERATING DIS- 
EASES, 


14. Mercury in second house causes TYPHOID. 


15. If Saturn aspects the 8th house and a malefic be there, they cause 
MALARIA. 


16. If Moon be in 8th, she causes LUNG DISEASES, 


17. Weak Moon in 7th or 8th conjoined with Ketu or Saturn or 
aspected by Saturn, causes LUNG DISEASES. 


18.Mercury in eighth causes cough and INDIGESTION, Mercury in 
2nd house also causes SIMILAR DISEASES, 


19.Sun and Moon in 2nd house cause DYSENTERY AND DIS- 
EASES OF BILE. 


20. If Moon and Rahu aspect 8th they cause DISEASES OF LIVER 
AND BILE. 


21.Moon and Venus in 2nd cause DIARRHOEA, CHOLERA, 
DYSENTERY. 


22. Venus and Moon in 8th cause DYSENTERY. 


23. If Mars be in Lagna and 6th lord be weak, they cause SPLEEN 
DISEASES. 


24. Rahu and Moon in the 8th house cause DISEASES OF LIVER 
AND BILE. 


25, Sun and Moon in 8th produce DYSENTERY AND DISEASES 
OF BILE, 


26. Mars and Venus in the 8th cause DIARRHOEA CHOLERA, 
DYSENTERY. 


27. Rahu and Sun in the 8th aspected by malefic cause INCURABLE 
LEPROSY. 


28. Rahu, Mars and Sun in the 8th cause SIMILAR DISEASE, 


29. If lord of Lagna be Mercury or Mars and be conjoined with Moon, 
Rahu and Satum, they cause LEPROSY. 


352 


Astrology and Diagnosis 


30.Moon not being lord of Lagna in 8th with Satum and Mars cause 
LEPROSY. 


31.Moon, Mercury and Sun and lord of Lagna in one house, without 
aspect of benefic cause LEPROSY. 

32.If Rahu and Sun aspect the 8th without benefic aspect, cause 
LEPROSY. 


33. If Rahu, Sun, Mars aspect the 8th they cause incurable LEP- 
ROSY. 


34. Sun, Mars and Satum in 8th, cause LEPROSY. 


35. If Moon, Mercury and lord of Lagna be with Rahu or Ketu and be 
not aspected by benefic, they cause LEUCODERMA. 


36.Moon not being lord of Lagna with Rahu in 8th causes 
LEUCODERMA. 


37. Afflicted Moon in the 8th causes DROPSY and WATERY 
DISEASES. 


38. If Moon being malefic aspects the 8th, she causes similardiseases. 


39.If a malefic be in 5th house and Sth lord be not there in a female 
horoscope, it causes ABORTION, MISCARRIAGE, etc. 


40. Mars and Saturn in Lagna in female horoscope cause the same. 


41. If Sth lord be afflicted by malefics, a female suffers from trouble 
during delivery or from birth of a dead child. 


42.If a malefic be in the 5th, a female suffers from DISEASES OF 
WOMB, DISEASES CONNECTING PREGNANCY or ABOR 
TIONS. 


43 If 5th house be between Rahu and Mars, a female suffers from 
ABORTIONS, MISCARRIAGE, etc. 


44.1f 5th lord be with Mars and Rahu, a female suffers from similar 
diseases. 


45 .If 5th Jord be between Rahu and Mars, female suffers from similar 
diseases. 

46.Satum in Lagna in female horoscope causes diseases connecting 
womb and pregnancy. Rahu or Ketu in Lagna causes similar 
diseases. 


Horary Astrology 353 


47. Venus in 8th house causes venereal diseases. 

48.Sun, Mars and Ketu in 8th house cause the same. 

49. Afflicted Venus in 2nd house causes the same. 

50. Ketu in the 8th aspected by Mars and Sun causes the same. 


51. Many malefics in 6th, 7th and 8th cause URINAL DISEASES, 


52. If Mars being malefic navamsa be in 6th house with Mercury and 
be aspected by Moon and Venus, they cause similar diseases. 


53.Combusted Mars in the 8th house causes disease of GENITAL 
and FEMALE ORGANS. 


54. If Venus, Sun and Mars aspect the 8th, it causes similar diseases. 


55. If Mars be in Lagna, 6th lord be weak, they cause ITCHES & 
SKIN DISEASES, 


56. Mars, Sun and Venus in 8th cause similar diseases. 


57.Sun and Mars in the 8th cause all blood diseases, DISEASES 
FROM IMPURITY OF BLOOD, ABSCESSES, TUMOUR, 
FEVERS etc. 


58.If Sun and Mercury aspect 8th they cause disease connecting 
BLOOD and FROM IMPURITY OF BLOOD. 


59. If lord of Lagna be combusted by Mars, it causes BLOODLESS- 
NESS. 


60. If Venus and Mars aspect the 8th house, it causes LOSS OF 
VITALITY AND ENERGY. 


61.If Venus and Mars be in 8th they cause similar trouble. 


62. If lord of Lagna be either in house of Mars and Mercury not being 


in Lagna and be aspected by Mercury, there will be diseases of 
MOUTH. 


63.Mars in Lagna and 6th lord weak cause similar diseases. 
64. Mars in the 8th house cause WINDY DISEASES. 
65. When Mars aspect the 8th house he causes similar diseases. 


66. Rahu in 8th house brings trouble from ACCIDENTS. When Rahu 


Astrology and Diagnosis 
aspects the 8th house, it produces similar troubles. 
67. Weak 6th lord and Mars in lagna produce HEADACHE. 


68. Sun with a malefic in 8th house causes diseases which cannot be 
easily diagnosed, i.e. disease resulting from combination of 
various diseases. 


69. Jupiter in 8th house with malefic causes diseases of THREE 
HUMOURS. 


70. Mars and Ketu in 8th house produce INCURABLE DISEASES. 


71.Ketu in 8th house aspected by Mars causes INCURABLE 
DISEASES. 


72. If Saturn aspects 8th house it causes SUDDEN ILLNESS. 

73.1f Saturn be in 8th house it causes SUDDEN ILLNESS. 

74. If Lord of Lagna be eclipsed, one does not feel Hungry. 
RECOVERY FROM DISEASES 


There are also many combinations in Horary Astrology given in 
Standard Books suggesting recovery from diseases and they are given 
below : 


1. If benefic Moon is in Lagna and aspected by Jupiter. 
2. Benefic Moon in Lagna and Venus and Jupiter in Kendra. 


3. If lord of Lagna be a benefic, be strong, be in Kendra, trikona or in 
its exaltation house. 


4. A strong benefic in Lagna. 
5. Benefics in 3rd, 6th, 9th and 11th houses. 


6. Moon in 3rd, 6th 10th or 11thhouse and benefic in kendra, trikona 
and 8th house and Lagna aspected by another benefic. 


7. When Moon in 4th or 8th or between malefics aspected by strong 
benefics. 


8. Moon in 3rd, 6th, 8th or I1th house and benefic in Ist, 7th or 8th 
house aspected by another benefic. 


9.Lagna without a malefic while Jupiter in Lagna or benefics or 


Horary Astrology 355 


benefics in Kendra or Trikona. 
10. If lords of 7th and 8th houses are in the same Drekkana. 
11.Lord of Lagna exalted, benefics in kendra and 8th lord unafflicted. 


12. Moon in 3rd, 6th 10th or 11th house and benefic in Ist, 7th or 8th 
house aspected by Mercury. 


13. If Lagna and 11th houses be strong with conjunction of benefics. 


14. Lord of Lagna, rising in Lagna and 7th lord of Lagna being in 
kendra or Trikona. 


15.An exalted planet either in Lagna or in verga of lord of Lagna being 
in Kendra or Trikona. 


16. If lord of Lagna be strongand benefic in Kendra orexalted benefic 
be in Trikona. 


17. If strong lord of Lagna and weak 8th lord both join Lagna. 
18. If lord of Lagna be rising and lord of 8th house setting. 


DEATH-INFLICTING (MARAKA) AND MALEFIC PLANETS 
FOR DIFFERENT LAGNAS. 


MESHA (ARIES) ASCENDANT 


MARAKA (DEATH INFLICTING):- Venus, when in Quadrant or 
with malefic planet becomes strong Maraka(Death inflicting). 


MALEFICS : Mercury, waning Moon and Satum, when in Maraka 
house (Death-inflicting house) becomes Maraka. 


Mars when in malefic planet or in evil house becomes malefic when 
in death-inflicting house becomes Maraka. 


TAURUS ASCENDANT 
DEATH-INFLICTING PLANET- MARS. 


MELEFICS: Moon and Jupiter when in death-inflicting house, gives 
Death. Mercury and Venus give death when in death-inflicting house; 
when with malefic planet or in evil house give death. 


MITHUNA ASCENDANT 
DEATH INFLICTING PLANET: Jupiter becomes strong to cause 


356 Astrology and Diagnosis 


death when in Quadrant. 
MALEFICS : Sun, Mars, Saturn and Mercury. 


Moon causes death when in death-inflicting house. Moon becomes 
malefic when with a malefic planet or in evil house. Malefic planets 
cause death when in death-inflicting house. Mercury causes death 
when it is benefic and when being benefic is with Jupiter. It becomes 
a strong death-inflicting planet when in Quadrant with Jupiter. 


CANCER ASCENDANT. 


DEATH-INFLICTING PLANET : Sun causes death when in the 
2nd house. 


MALEFICS: Mercury, Venus and Waxing Moon. Sun causes death 
when with a malefic or in evil house. Malefic planets cause death 
when in death-inflicting house. 


LEO ASCENDANT. 
DEATH-INFLICTING PLANETS: Mercury and Saturn. 


MALEFICS : Venus. Moon can cause death when in 2nd house. She 
is also death giver in 7th house, if waxing. Venus can cause death in 
a death-inflicting house. Moon is malefic in evil house or when with 
a malefic. 


VIRGO ASCENDANT 


DEATH INFLICTING PLANETS: Jupiter (becomes strong death 


giver when in quadrant) Venus causes death when in death-inflicting 
house. 


MALEFFICS : Mars, Saturn, Moon and benefic Mercury. Malefic 
causes death when in death-inflicting house. Sun can cause death 
when in a death-inflicting house and becomes malefic when with a 
malefic or in evil house. Benefic Mercury can cause death when with 
Jupiter, it gives death when with Venus in a death-inflicting house. 


LIBRA ASCENDANT 


DEATH INFLICTING PLANET : MARS becomes strong death 
giver when not in a Quadrant. 


MALEFICS: Jupiter, Sun and Waxing Moon. Malefic becomes 
death giver when in death inflicting house. Venus causes death and 
becomes malefic when she is with malefic or in evil house. 


Horary Astrology 357 


SCORPIO ASCENDANT 


DEATH INFLICTING PLANETS: Venus causes death whenin a 
Quadrant. 


MALEFICS: Saturn and Mercury. Jupiter causes death when in 
death-inflicting house. He becomes strong to cause death when with 
Venus in that house. Mars is a malefic when in 7th house, especially 
with a death-inflicting planet. 


SAGITTARIUS ASCENDANT 


DEATH INFLICTING PLANETS : Saturn and benefic Mercury 
(Mercury becomes strong to cause death when in a Quadrant). 


MALEFICS: Jupiter can cause death when ina quadrant. He becomes 
strong to cause death when with Mercury. Malefics become death 
giver when in death-inflicting house. 


CAPRICORN ASCENDANT 


DEATH INFLICTING PLANETS: Saturn when in 2nd house and 
Waxing Moon. 


MALEFICS: Jupiter, Mars and Sun. Malefics can cause death when 
in death-inflicting house. 


AQUARIUS ASCENDANT 
DEATH INFLICTING PLANETS: Jupiter and Sun in 2nd house. 


MALEFICS : Mars and Moon. Malefics can cause death when in 
death-inflicting house. 


PISCES ASCENDANT 


DEATH INFLICTING PLANETS: Benefic Mercury and Mars 
when in 2nd house. Benefic Mercury becomes strong to cause death 
when in quadrant with Jupiter. 


MALEFICS: Jupiter, Venus, Sun and Satum. 


Jupiter becomes strong to cause death when in quadrant. He becomes 
strong to cause death when with Mercury. Venus can cause death 
when in death-inflicting house. He is a strong death giver when in 
death inflicting house with Jupiterorbenefic Mercury. Malefics cause 
death when in 2nd or 7th house. Rahu and Ketu become death giver 


358 Astrology and Diagnosis 


when in 2nd or 7th house. They are malefic with a malefic. They also 
become malefic when in evil houses i.e. 6th, 8th or 12th house. 


The question whether a planet is a death giver or malefic varies much 
according to the relation of the planet, in consideration with planets it is 
associating, or by whom it is being aspected or in any way related, or 
according to where it is situated. The aspect or association of a friendly 
planet cannot be of same effect as that of a neutral planet. The relation 
of a planet with an enemy planet cannot be same as that ofa friendly or 
neutral planet. 


Again relation of a planet conjoined with or aspected by a benefic or 
situated in a house of benefic cannot be same as the planet conjoined with 
or aspected by a malefic or death-inflicting planet. 


The result will also vary according to whether a planet is in Bhava 
Madhya or in Bhava sandhi and whether a planet is aspected by or 
conjoined with another planet in full strength or aspect, conjunction etc. 
While judging diseases from horoscope, all these points should be taken 
into consideration. 


COMBINATION FOR FATAL DISEASES 


There are also combinations for Fatal Diseases suggesting death from 
the disease. These should be applied afterconsidering whetherthe planets 
producing disease are malefics or not and also whether they have some 
relation with houses and planets ruling death. 


Malefics always give evil results. Benefics produce milder results and 
may not even bring diseases and death. The combinations for Fatal 
Diseases are as follows:- 


1. If lord of 6th house, being a malefic, occupies Prashna Lagna and 
aspects the rashi of the patient, it suggests death. 


2. If Moon be posited in the 4th or 8th house or be in between malefics 
and if the same be not strong and be not aspected by benefics she 
brings death to the patient. 


3. If afflicted Moon be in Lagna and Sun be in 7th house, they cause 
Death to the patient. 


4. If there be malefics in 3rd, 6th, 9th and 11th house, they produce 
Death. 


5. If Moon be in 6th house and 12th house be occupied or aspected by 


Horary Astrology 359 


malefic, they bring death to the patient. 


6. When Moon be in the 8th house aspected by malefics, the patient 
dies. 


7.1f Sunbe in 3rdand a malefic be in 10th house, the person dies within 
10 days. 


8. If Jupiter and Venus be in 3rd , they bring death within 7 days. 


9. Malefics in Lagna and also at the same time in 4th or 8th houses 
cause death to the patient within 8 days. 


10. Malefics in Lagna and second causes death within fortnight. 
11.Malefics in 2nd , 8th and 10th produces death within 3 days. 
12. When malefics are in 7th and 10th, the death occurs in 7 days. 


13. If Lagna be a fixed sign, and be aspected by malefics and be not 
aspected by benefic, the patient dies. 


14. If all the malefics be in Ist, 3rd, Sth, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th houses 
and if benefics be not there, the patient dies. 


15. If lagna be a fiery sign and if Lagna be in a fiery navamsa and if 
the same be afflicted by malefics, and ifthe person suffers from 
illness at the time of question, he dies. 


16. In Lagna be a movable sign, Moon be in Lagna or4th house, Mars 
be in 6th 8th or 10th house, they bring Death. 


17.1f Moon be in the 6th or 8th house from Lagna ‘being aspected by 
an enemy of lord“or Lagna and also be either conjoined with or 
aspected by another malefic and be not aspected by any benefic, 
the patient dies. 


18. If 8th lord be alone in Lagna, it brings death. 


19. Moon in Lagna or 8th house, malefics in 2nd 7th and 12th houses 
cause death within a day. 


20.Moon hemmed between malefics, all the four kendras occupied 
by malefics and Lagna unaspected by benefic cause death within 
a day. 


21. If Moon and a malefic be hemmed between malefics in Kendra, 
Trikona 8th or 12th house and be not conjoined with any benefic, 


Astrology and Diagnosis 
the patient dies within 3 days. 


22. If Sun be in Lagna, and lord of Lagna be afflicted, they cause 
death. 


23.1f Sun be in Leo sign and lord or Lagna be afflicted, they bring 
death. 


24.1fSun and Rahu be in 8th house and Lord of Lagna be afflicted, 
they bring death. 


25. If Lagna be a house of malefic, be hemmed between malefics and 
also be conjoined with malefic, the patient dies. 


26.If 8th house be a house of malefic, be hemmed between malefics 
and be conjoined with malefics, the patient dies. 


27.1f Moon be in 6th or 8th house and malefics be in all kendras they 
cause death. 


28. Sun in 8th, Jupiter in 9th and Satumin Lagna, 10th or 12th house 
cause death. 


29.Lord of Lagna-Drekkana in 22nd Drekkana from the same cause 
Death. 


30. Moon in 6th or 8th house conjoined with malefics causes Death. 


31. Moon in Lagna, 6th or 8th house hemmed between malefics and 
malefics in 2nd or 12th houses cause death within a day. 


32. Sun and Moon in Lagna and 7th house respectively bring death 
with in a day. 


33.Moon in 6th house, malefics in 12th house causes Death. 


34. Moon in the 10th house and Sun in 2nd or 6th house and if both 
be afflicted, they bring Death. 


35. Moon in 10th house and Sun in 3rd house and if both be afflicted 
they cause Death. 


PERIODS OF DISEASES 


Diseases appear in Dashas and Antar-dashas of different planets 


capable of producing disease or at the same time when strong malefic 
planets pass through the house of disease, Lagna, Sun, Moon orthehouse 
where disease inflicting planet is situated or malefic planets aspect them 
in transit. 


Horary Astrology 361 


DASHAS AND ANTARDASHAS. 


The following Dashas and antardashas are capable of giving rise 
to disease:- 


1. In dasha of Maraka planet. 
2. Dasha of 6th or 8th lord. 
3.In dasha of malefic planet. 


4. In dasha of a planet related to maraka or malefic planet which by 
conjunction or aspect also becomes a maraka or malefic. 


5. In dasha of a disease inflicting planet. 


6. In dasha ofbenefic, duringantar-dasha of a disease-inflictingplanet 
malefic planet or maraka planet which is in any way related to the 
death-inflicting planet by conjunction, opposition or aspect. 


7.In dasha of a maraka planet in antardasha ofa planet which is 
disease-inflicting planet by conjunction, opposition or aspect. 


8. In dasha of a malefic planet in antardasha of a planet which is 
capable of producing disease or is an any way related malefically 
with disease inflicting planet by conjunction, opposition or aspect. 


9. In dasha of a benefic and in antardasha of a malefic lord of thehouse 
of disease. 


10. In dasha of a maraka planet and in antardasha of a malefic lord of 
the house of disease. 


11.In dasha of a maraka planet and in antardasha of a malefic lord of 
the house oT disease. 


12. In dasha of a planet which is malefic or maraka by relation with 
a malefic or maraka planet and in antardasha of a malefic lord of 
the house of disease or in antardasha or a malefic planet which is 
capable of producing disease or in any way related malefically 
with disease inflicting planet by conjunction, opposition or aspect. 


13. In dasha of 6th or 8th lord and in antardasha of a malefic planet 
capable of inflicting disease or in any way related malefically with 
disease-inflicting planet by conjunction, opposition or aspect or 
during antardasha of the malefic lord of the house of disease. 


362 Astrology and Diagnosis 


14. In dasha ofa disease-inflicting planet and in antar-dasha of a 
malefic or maraka planet. 


The planets have certain periods for giving results and they are 
capable of giving their effects in following degrees. 


Sun and Mars 01-10 degrees in a house. 
Jupiter and Venus 11-20 degrees in a house. 
Moon and Satum 21-30 degrees in a house. 
Mercury, Rahu and Ketu During all time. 


That is, if antardasha is divided into three equal parts Sun and Mars 
will give their effects in first part, Jupiter and Venus will give their effects 
in middle part, Moon and Satu will give their effects in last part. 
Mercury, Rahu and Ketu will give their results any time in their 
antardashas. The result should be determined in this process from the 
antardasha period as regards the time of the disease. Some are of the 
opinion that Pratyantar dasha should be taken into consideration and 
effect will be felt during Pratyantar dasha of a planet which is malefic, 
Maraka badly situated, enemy or related to the disease-inflicting planet. 


Some are also of theopinion that the exact time during an antardasha 
will be in proportion to the location of a planet in a house, that is, the 
degree, minutes etc of the planet ruling the antardasha. 


TRANSIT 


Sun, Mars, Malefic Mercury, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu give bad effects 
in transit while passing through unwanted house or aspect it malefically. 
Of course, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu have greater effect. Next are Mars, Sun 
and Mercury. Moon's transit determine the time of event. Saturn, Rahu 
and Ketu are most evil and their influence to inflict disease in transit are 
given below: 


1. When malefic planet passes through Lagna, Sun or Moon, or be in 
opposition to them in transit, one suffersfrom disease. Theiraspects 
over these houses in transit are also bad. 


2. When Saturnpasses through 2nd and 12th houses, Lagna, Sun and 
Moon, it produces diseases. 


3. When Rahu, Ketu or Saturn passes through a house which is 
afflicted at the time of birth, disease of that part of the body or 
disease ruled by that house may appear. The nature of thedisease 
will be like that ruled by planets and houses afflicted along with 
afflicting planets at that time. 


Horary Astrology 363 


4. When Rahu, Ketu or Saturnpasses over a planet which is afflicted 
at the time of birth, the diseases will appear, the nature of the 
diseases being that ruled by afflicted and afflicting planets and also 
by houses and rashis afflicted and related. 


5. If there be a combination of malefic planets at the time of birth 
suggesting any disease, the same may appear when malefic planets 
pass over the combined planets in transit or when a similar 
combination formed in transit affecting the combining rashis and 
planets of the natal Chart. 


The periods of effects of planets are: 


Sun and Mars 01-10 degrees ina rashi. 
Jupiter and Venus. 11-20 degrees in a rashi. 
Saturn and Moon 21-30 degrees in a rashi. 
Mercury, Rahu and Ketu. During all time. 


I have mentioned above the periods of diseases to appear. This is a 
very general principle and will vary according to mutual relations of 
planets, whether they are friends, neutral or enemy, whether they are in 
a house of friend, neutral or enemy, whether the planet is in Bhava- 
Madhya, defeated in or Bhava Sandhi, whether the planet is retrograde, 
combusted, defeatedinplanetary war, depressed, stationary, etc. Whether 
the planet is in exaltation, Mool-triloka, own house or in debilitation etc. 


In dasha of a benefic, during antardasha of benefic evil planets in 
transit affecting any house or planet and capable of giving rise to disease 
may not at all be able to produce disease. It will depend on whether the 
planets ruling Dasha and antardasha are stronger than the afflicting 
transitory planets or not; Jupiter and Venus when pass through a house of 
disease or over a disease-inflicting planet, can counteract the evil forces 
of the transiting malefic planets. Under such conditions the disease may 
not occur at all. 


A question was put on 21st January 1955 at 10-20 a.m.IST. The case 


364 Astrology and Diagnosis 


was a sudden attack of Appendicitis and the patient had to undergo an 
operation. 


Strong Mars aspecting eighthh house 
suggests operation. 


9 Sun rules abdomen and Moon rules 


Bree append, citis, Virgo sign which is the 
seat of disease is afflicted by Mars 
suggesting operation and sixth lord 


is afflicted by Rahu. 


The person was suddenly attacked 
from Appendicitis in night of 20th Jan. 1955 when Moon entered 
Sagittarius sign. He was forced to an operation a nd Ultimately recovered. 


A question was put about a person 
who was operated in a hospital some- 
time in middle of November 1954, 
on 23 Nov 1954 at 11.15 am. 


This was a case of operation of pros- 
trate of an old person of 70 years. 
After operation, the right side of the 
body and the tongue became 
paralysed. Ultimately he died of the 
b same. Very strong Mars in Lagna 
aspecting the 8th house suggested operation. Sun, lord of the 8th is 
between malefics and is aspected by Rahu suggesting operation in the 8th 
part of the body i.e. prostrate. 


Moon is weak and afflicted, Strong malefic Sun in 11th suggested 
Death. Further, benefic planets Jupiter and Venus are heavily afflicted 
and both retrograde. Lagna is heavily afflicted and Sun, Moon, Lord of 
Lagna are also afflicted. These suggest Death. 


He was operated when Moon was passing through Leo Sign the 8th 
house from Lagna, the sign owned by the Sun. 


