astrological
TRANSITS

THE	BEGINNER’S	GUIDE	TO	USING	PLANETARY	CYCLES	TO	PLAN	AND
PREDICT	YOUR	DAY,	WEEK,	YEAR	(OR	DESTINY)

APRIL	ELLIOTT	KENT



CONTENTS

part	I:	TRANSITS	AND	HOW	TO	USE	THEM

CHAPTER	1:	An	Overview	of	Transits
CHAPTER	2:	Understanding	Planetary	Cycles

part	II:	PLANETARY	TRANSITS	TO	OTHER	PLANETS
CHAPTER	3:	Transits	of	JUPITER:	The	Leap	of	Faith
CHAPTER	4:	Transits	of	SATURN:	The	Ability	to	Respond
CHAPTER	5:	Transits	of	URANUS:	The	Shooting	Star
CHAPTER	6:	Transits	of	NEPTUNE:	The	Tide
CHAPTER	7:	Transits	of	PLUTO:	The	Undertow
CHAPTER	8:	Transits	of	MERCURY,	VENUS,	and	MARS:	Planetary	Triggers
CHAPTER	9:	Transits	of	the	SUN	and	MOON:	The	Dance	of	Light

part	III:	TRANSITS	IN	HOUSES
CHAPTER	10:	Houses	1	and	7:	Self	and	Important	Others
CHAPTER	11:	Houses	2	and	8:	Personal	and	Shared	Resources
CHAPTER	12:	Houses	3	and	9:	Learning	and	Understanding
CHAPTER	13:	Houses	4	and	10:	Origin	and	Destination
CHAPTER	14:	Houses	5	and	11:	Creations	and	Legends
CHAPTER	15:	Houses	6	and	12:	This	World	and	the	Next
CHAPTER	16:	Transits	in	Action

Appendices
Resources
Acknowledgments
About	the	Author
Index



part	I:
TRANSITS	AND	HOW	TO	USE	THEM



chapter	1
AN	OVERVIEW	OF	TRANSITS

I n	1993,	Jo	was	experiencing	one	of	the	most	challenging	periods	of	her	life.She	had	lost	her	mother,	given	birth	to	her	first	child,	and	left	her	abusive
husband;	she	was	struggling	with	depression,	raising	her	child	as	a	single

mother	on	state	assistance.
Somehow,	she	found	the	strength	and	determination	to	complete	the

manuscript	for	a	book	she	had	started	writing	a	few	years	earlier.	“Had	I	really
succeeded	at	anything	else,”	she	later	wrote,	“I	might	never	have	found	the
determination	to	succeed	in	the	one	area	where	I	truly	belonged.…	Rock	bottom
became	a	solid	foundation	on	which	I	rebuilt	my	life.”

Within	five	years,	Jo—writing	as	J.	K.	Rowling—was	a	multimillionaire.	Her
Harry	Potter	stories	became	the	best-selling	book	series	in	history	and	spawned
one	of	the	highest-grossing	film	series	of	all	time.

Destiny	is	what	happens	when	circumstances	meet	character.	Writing	was
part	of	Rowling’s	character;	she	began	writing	when	she	was	six	years	old.	But
her	spectacular	journey	from	poverty	to	phenomenal	success	all	took	place
during	an	important	transit	of	Saturn	to	her	birth	chart.	Saturn	transits	push	us	to
the	limits	of	our	endurance	and	force	us	to	cultivate	inner	strength	and
resourcefulness.	Another	person	might	simply	have	given	up,	and	few	of	us
would	have	blamed	her	if	she	had.	But	J.	K.	Rowling’s	experience	is	an	inspiring
example	of	meeting	a	challenging	transit	head-on	and	doing	everything	possible
to	turn	failure	into	success.

TRANSITS:	WHEN	THE	UNCHANGING	SELF	ENCOUNTERS	THE
WORLD
There	is	a	part	of	you	that	doesn’t	change	much,	really,	from	the	time	you’re
born	until	the	day	you	leave	the	planet.	In	astrology,	we	look	to	your	birth	chart
to	find	insights	into	this	true,	unchanging	self.	Take	a	snapshot	of	the	sky	at	the
moment	of	your	birth,	from	the	place	where	you	were	born.	It’s	as	though	a
nuclear	blast	happened	at	that	moment	and	imprinted	the	heavens	on	you.	That	is
your	indelible,	astrological	schema.	That’s	the	person	you	are	inside.

But	then	you	learn	to	walk,	you	go	to	school,	you	fall	in	love	and	get	your
heart	broken,	you	have	a	child	or	lose	a	parent,	and	each	of	those	experiences



heart	broken,	you	have	a	child	or	lose	a	parent,	and	each	of	those	experiences
leaves	a	mark.	So	you’re	not	precisely	the	same	person	you	were	on	the	day	you
were	born.

Astrology	acknowledges	both	realities:	that	there	is	an	unchanging	core	deep
within	each	one	of	us,	and	that	a	shy,	vulnerable	infant	can	grow	into	a	poised,
strong	adult.	The	birth	chart	is	what	we	set	out	with,	the	knapsack	full	of	traits
and	native	weaponry	that	we	carry	into	the	world	for	sustenance	and	protection.
But	along	the	way,	we	encounter	the	world,	it	encounters	us,	and	things	change.

Astrologers	call	these	encounters	transits.

WHAT	ARE	TRANSITS?
In	astrology,	the	term	transits	refers	to	the	ongoing	movement	of	the	planets,	in
contrast	to	their	positions	at	your	birth	or	when	some	other	notable	event
occurred.	Because	they	are	connected	to	current	reality,	transits	reflect	our
collective	reality,	the	world	we’re	all	living	in	together.	Transits	are	like	cards
that	the	world	deals	us,	and	what	we	do	with	them—how	we	play	the	hand—is
what	changes	us	and	determines	the	course	of	our	destiny.

Your	birth	chart	is	a	snapshot	of	the	sky	at	the	moment	you	were	born.	But
what	happened	in	the	next	moment?	The	planets	continued	to	move,	that’s	what
happened.	Some	of	them	move	quickly,	and	others	at	the	pace	of	drying	paint.
Take	a	snapshot	of	that	same	sky	from	the	same	place	just	twenty-four	hours
later,	and	you’d	see	some	changes,	but	not	many.

Some	slightly	different	stars	would	be	rising	on	the	horizon	and	culminating
overhead.	Most	noticeably,	the	Moon	would	be	in	another	part	of	the	sky.	The
Moon	is	our	fastest-moving	celestial	companion:	In	just	twenty-eight	days,	it
makes	a	complete	lap	of	the	ecliptic,	covering	360	degrees	and	every	zodiac
sign.

But	everything	else	on	that	next	day	will	most	likely	be	just	about	where	you
left	it.	You’d	have	to	come	back	in	a	month	to	see	much	movement	from
Mercury,	the	Sun,	Venus,	or	Mars.	Jupiter	occupies	the	same,	narrow	30-degree
span	of	sky	for	an	entire	year,	and	Saturn	for	about	two	and	a	half	years.	As	for
Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto…	well,	you	wouldn’t	see	them	at	all,	but	rest
assured,	they’ll	have	hardly	budged.

We	live	in	an	orderly	universe,	and	nowhere	is	this	more	evident	than	in	our
solar	system.	The	planets	move	in	predictable	cycles,	revisiting	the	same	points
in	the	zodiac	at	regular	intervals.	For	instance,	each	year,	within	a	day	on	either
side	of	your	birthday,	the	Sun	returns	to	the	same	point	in	the	sky	that	it
occupied	at	your	birth.	“Many	happy	returns”	indeed!



occupied	at	your	birth.	“Many	happy	returns”	indeed!

INNER	AND	OUTER	PLANETS
Mercury,	Venus,	and	Mars,	our	transiting	neighbors	closest	to	the	Sun,	are	often
referred	to	as	the	inner	planets;	in	astrology,	we	include	the	Sun	and	Moon	in
this	group.	An	aspect—or	geometric	angle—to	your	birth	chart	from	the	fast-
moving	planets—the	Sun,	Moon,	Mercury,	Venus,	or	Mars—happens	so	quickly
and	so	often	that	these	transits	tend	to	have	few	long-term	consequences.	They
may,	however,	act	as	triggers	for	slower-moving	transits	happening	at	the	same
time.

PLANET CYCLE	THROUGH	THE AREAS	OF	LIFE	AFFECTED
ZODIAC

Sun 365	days vitality,	creativity,	confidence
Moon 28	days emotion,	daily	routine,	maintenance	of

one’s	body	and	home
Mercury 88	days learning,	communication
Venus a	little	under	1	year relationship,	finances
Mars 2.5	years work,	conflict,	sexuality

The	transits	of	the	outer	planets,	Jupiter,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto,
on	the	other	hand,	are	rare	and	take	a	long	time	to	complete	their	work.	They
symbolize	processes	in	your	life	that	unfold	slowly	and	usually	have	far-
reaching	consequences.	Some	of	them	leave	you	profoundly	changed.

PLANET CYCLE	THROUGH	THE AREAS	OF	LIFE	AFFECTED
ZODIAC

Jupiter 12	years education,	travel,	adventure
Saturn 29.5	years career,	responsibility,	maturity
Uranus 84	years change,	disruption,	rebellion
Neptune 165	years spirituality,	illusion,	disillusion
Pluto 250	years transformation,	inner	strength

TRANSITING	PLANETS	IN	THE	SIGNS	OF	THE	ZODIAC
When	a	transiting	planet	changes	signs,	it	adopts	the	costume	of	that	sign.	As	I
write	this,	Mercury	is	in	Aries;	the	tone	of	this	moment	in	time	is	to	“perform”
Mercury	(communication,	commuting,	reading,	thinking)	in	the	style	of	Aries—
which	is	to	say,	fast,	direct,	and	to	the	point.	The	expression	“too	long,	didn’t



read”	(TL;DR)	was	probably	coined	by	someone	with	Mercury	in	Aries!
In	a	few	days,	though,	Mercury	will	enter	Taurus,	which	is	a	very	different

costume	indeed.	The	tone	for	communication	will	shift	to	this	sign’s	more
deliberate,	slow,	and	considered	style.

This	doesn’t	mean	that	the	whole	world	as	one	will	be	hypnotized	to	speak,
think,	and	drive	slowly.	By	nature,	people	who	were	born	with	Mercury	in	Aries,
for	example,	always	process	the	world	at	lightning	speed,	and	Mercury	moving
into	Taurus	won’t	change	that.	What	it	will	do	is	present	situations	that
encourage	these	people	to	slow	down	and	practice	a	little	more	patience.
Chances	of	the	Mercury	in	Aries	person	enjoying	this	are	slim.	But	that’s	okay.
As	my	teacher	was	fond	of	saying,	“It’s	a	transit—it	will	pass.”

PLANETS	TRANSITING	THE	HOUSES	OF	YOUR	BIRTH	CHART
Planets	transiting	the	houses	of	your	chart	bring	action	and	awareness	to
particular	areas	of	your	life.	In	the	first	house,	it’s	brought	to	your	front	door.	In
the	sixth	house,	it’s	taking	place	where	you	work	or	in	something	related	to	your
health	regimen.	In	your	tenth	house,	your	career,	reputation,	or	calling	provide
the	avenue	for	responding	to	the	transit.	(Part	III	of	this	book	explores	transits	in
each	house	of	the	birth	chart.)

Depending	on	where	you	were	born,	some	houses	of	your	chart	may	be	larger
than	others.	Because	transits	will	always	spend	more	time	moving	through	these
houses,	they	take	on	a	particular	importance	in	your	life.	And	because	some
transiting	planets	move	much	more	slowly	than	others,	it’s	like	the	difference
between	having	the	postman	drop	by	(Mercury)	and	having	an	invalid	relative
move	in	to	be	cared	for	the	rest	of	his	days	(Neptune).

TRANSITING	PLANETS	IN	ASPECT
An	aspect	refers	to	a	particular	geometric	relationship	between	two	planets.	If
you	don’t	know	how	to	find	and	read	aspects,	you	will	likely	feel	it	is	a	bit	of	a
struggle	to	work	with	transits.	You	can	get	a	list	of	current	transiting	aspects	to
your	chart	at	Astrodienst,	a	free	online	resource	(www.astro.com),	but	it’s	much
easier	to	work	with	transits	when	you	are	able	to	compare	them	to	the	planets	in
your	chart	and	find	the	aspects	yourself.

Astrologers	use	a	variety	of	aspects	to	examine	transiting	connections	to	the
birth	chart.	Most	commonly,	we	use	these:

ASPECT DEGREES KEYWORD DIFFICULTY
Conjunction 0	degrees intensity;	subjectivity neutral;	may	be



Conjunction 0	degrees intensity;	subjectivity neutral;	may	be
harmonious	or	challenging,
depending	on	the	planets
involved

Sextile 60	degrees opportunity harmonious
Square 90	degrees conflict challenging
Trine 120	degrees ease harmonious
Quincunx 150–180	degrees adjustment challenging
Opposition 180	degrees balance challenging

If	you	find	it	difficult	to	identify	aspects,	you’re	not	alone.	It	gets	easier	with
practice,	though.	Begin	by	understanding	that,	generally,	particular	aspects	can
be	found	between	planets	that	are	in	specific	signs.	Here	is	a	quick	guide	to	help
get	you	in	the	neighborhood.	(Note:	A	conjunction	is	usually	found	between
planets	in	the	same	sign.)

PLANET	IN LOOK	FOR LOOK	FOR LOOK	FOR LOOK	FOR LOOK	FOR
THIS	SIGN SEXTILES	IN… SQUARES	IN… TRINES	IN… QUINCUNXES	IN… OPPOSITIONS	IN…
Aries Gemini, Cancer, Leo,	Sagittarius Virgo,	Scorpio Libra

Aquarius Capricorn
Taurus Cancer,	Pisces Leo,	Aquarius Virgo, Libra,	Sagittarius Scorpio

Capricorn
Gemini Leo,	Aries Virgo,	Pisces Libra,	Aquarius Scorpio,	Capricorn Sagittarius

Cancer Virgo,	Taurus Aries,	Libra Scorpio,	Pisces Sagittarius,	Aquarius Capricorn

Leo Gemini,	Libra Taurus,	Scorpio Aries, Capricorn,	Pisces Aquarius
Sagittarius

Virgo Cancer,	Scorpio Gemini, Taurus, Aries,	Aquarius Pisces
Sagittarius Capricorn

Libra Leo,	Sagittarius Cancer, Gemini, Taurus,	Pisces Aries
Capricorn Aquarius

Scorpio Virgo, Leo,	Aquarius Cancer,	Pisces Aries,	Gemini Taurus
Capricorn

Sagittarius Libra,	Aquarius Virgo,	Pisces Aries,	Leo Taurus,	Cancer Gemini

Capricorn Scorpio,	Pisces Aries,	Libra Taurus,	Virgo Gemini,	Leo Cancer

Aquarius Aries, Taurus,	Scorpio Gemini,	Libra Cancer,	Virgo Leo
Sagittarius

Pisces Taurus, Gemini, Cancer,	Scorpio Leo,	Libra Virgo
Capricorn Sagittarius

If	transiting	Mars,	for	instance,	is	currently	at	8	degrees	of	Sagittarius,	then	it
is	sextile	any	planets	at	8	degrees	of	Libra	or	Aquarius,	square	planets	at	8



is	sextile	any	planets	at	8	degrees	of	Libra	or	Aquarius,	square	planets	at	8
degrees	of	Virgo	and	Pisces,	trine	planets	at	8	degrees	of	Aries	or	Leo,	quincunx
planets	at	8	degrees	Taurus	or	Cancer,	and	opposed	planets	at	8	degrees	of
Gemini.

However,	this	is	not	a	hard-and-fast	rule.	Occasionally,	a	planet	in	one	sign
can	make	aspects	to	planets	in	signs	other	than	the	ones	listed	here	due	to	aspect
orbs.
ORBS

Two	planets	can	be	considered	in	aspect	to	one	another	even	if	the	aspect	is	not
exact.	An	exact	square	aspect,	for	instance,	refers	to	two	planets	separated	by
exactly	90	degrees.	But	most	astrologers	observe	that	the	influence	of	an	aspect
is	experienced	for	a	certain	number	of	degrees,	or	orb,	on	either	side	of	that
exact	angle.	What	astrologers	don’t	necessarily	agree	about	is	how	many	degrees
of	orb	should	be	allowed!

For	transits,	I	tend	to	allow	larger	orbs	(more	degrees	on	either	side	of	exact)
for	slower-moving	planets	and	smaller	orbs	(fewer	degrees	on	either	side	of
exact)	for	faster	planets,	and	I	give	more	weight	to	aspects	that	are	approaching
(or	opening)	the	exact	angle	than	those	that	have	already	completed	that	angle
(separating,	or	closing).

My	orbs	for	transiting	planets:
Moon:	1	degree	on	either	side	of	exact	Sun,	Mercury,	Venus:	3	degrees	on
either	side	of	exact	Mars,	Jupiter,	and	Saturn:	5	degrees	on	either	side	of
exact	Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto:	7	degrees	on	either	side	of	exact	For
example,	if	transiting	Pluto,	planet	of	power	and	transformation,	is	at	13.33
degrees	of	Capricorn,	and	your	natal	Midheaven	(tenth	house	cusp)	is	at
15.45	degrees,	then	Pluto	is	about	2	degrees	away	from	making	a	trine	(120
degrees)	aspect	to	the	Midheaven	(representing	career	matters).	That’s
definitely	close	enough	that	you	should	be	experiencing	some	intense
developments	related	to	your	career.	Since	it’s	a	harmonious	aspect,	you
might	safely	assume	that	the	possibility	exists	for	career	empowerment	at
this	time.

Here’s	where	it	gets	tricky.	Let’s	say	transiting	Jupiter	is	at	1	degree	of	Virgo,
and	you	have	natal	Mars	at	28	degrees	of	Aries.	Virtually	any	astrologer	would
call	this	a	trine	aspect.	“But	how?”	you	might	cry,	glancing	at	that	handy	table
and	finding	that	Virgo’s	trines	most	often	occur	in	Taurus	and	Capricorn.	It’s
because	28	degrees	of	Aries	is	only	2	degrees	from	flipping	into	Taurus,	and
therefore	only	3	degrees	from	transiting	Jupiter.	So	keep	an	eye	out	for	what
astrologers	call	“out-of-sign”	aspects.



FOLLOWING	TRANSITING	CYCLES
Each	transiting	planet’s	cycle	can	be	broken	into	phases	similar	to	lunar	phases.
The	first	half	of	a	planet’s	overall	cycle	through	the	zodiac	is	the	waxing,	or
growing	and	initiating	period;	the	last	half	is	the	harvesting	and	concluding	part
of	the	cycle.	The	greatest	tension	in	the	cycle	occurs	at	the	first	and	last	quarters
and	the	opposition	point.

Using	Saturn	as	an	example:	Saturn	takes	roughly	29.5	years	to	complete	one
cycle.	The	halfway	point	is	at	14.75	years	(29	÷	2),	and	the	quarters	come	at
about	7	1/2	and	22	years.

The	ages	of	7,	14,	22,	and	29	then	become	very	important	ages	for	each	of	us,
because	they	are	the	ages	when	transiting	Saturn	is	at	points	of	greatest	tension
to	its	position	in	our	birth	charts.	These	are	ages	when	we	are	called	by	Saturn	to
develop	greater	maturity,	self-mastery,	and	authority.

PLANETARY	RETURNS
A	planetary	“return”	refers	to	the	moment	a	planet	comes	back	to	the	same	point
in	the	zodiac	that	it	occupied	at	your	birth.	Each	year	you	have	a	solar	return
within	a	day	of	your	birthday,	each	month	a	lunar	return,	and	every	twenty-nine
years	a	Saturn	return.	Astrologers	cast	a	chart	for	the	precise	time	of	the	return
and	read	it	for	the	highlights	of	the	planet’s	new	cycle.

RETROGRADES
All	planets	(other	than	the	Sun	and	Moon)	have	periods	of	retrograde	motion,
when	they	appear	to	be	moving	backward.	They’re	not,	of	course;	it’s	an	optical
illusion	based	on	their	position	relative	to	the	Sun	and	to	Earth.

Retrograde	planets	are	indicated	in	a	chart	or	ephemeris	by	the	symbol	 .
A	planet	in	retrograde	motion	seems	to	work	differently	than	usual:	Matters

associated	with	the	planet	are	unstable	and	unpredictable.	These	are	considered
poor	times	to	initiate	matters	related	to	the	planet	(e.g.,	getting	married	when
Venus	is	retrograde,	filing	a	lawsuit	when	Jupiter	is	retrograde),	usually	because
you	don’t	have	all	the	information	you	need	to	make	an	informed	decision.

The	rule	of	thumb	with	retrograde	cycles	is	that	they’re	fine	for	doing
anything	that	begins	with	re–,	such	as	reviewing	your	work,	revisiting	old
projects	or	relationships,	renovating	your	house,	or	revising	plans.

Mercury	is	retrograde	for	about	three	weeks	at	a	time,	three	times	each	year.
Mercury	rules	communication,	technology,	transportation,	siblings	and
neighbors,	and	learning.	Its	retrograde	periods	are	good	for	catching	up	with	old



neighbors,	and	learning.	Its	retrograde	periods	are	good	for	catching	up	with	old
friends,	visiting	places	you’ve	been	before,	reviewing	contracts,	and	finishing
old	projects.	But	it’s	best	to	avoid	purchasing	cars,	computers,	or	phones;
signing	agreements;	or	traveling	either	to	new	places	or	on	a	tight	schedule.

Venus	is	retrograde	approximately	forty	to	forty-three	days	every	eighteen
months.	These	are	good	times	for	recovering	money	owed	to	you,	reviewing
your	finances,	redecorating,	or	reuniting	with	people	from	your	past.	But	it’s	a
good	idea	to	avoid	getting	married,	forming	other	legal	partnerships,	making
major	purchases,	or	undergoing	cosmetic	surgery	and	making	other	radical
changes	to	your	appearance.

Mars	is	retrograde	approximately	fifty-eight	to	eighty-one	days	every	two
years.	During	these	times,	examine	how	you	deal	with	anger,	assertiveness,
conflict,	competition,	and	sexuality.	If	possible,	avoid	starting	a	new	job	or
business,	entering	a	competition,	or	picking	a	fight.	It	might	not	be	the	best	time
for	elective	surgery,	either.	It’s	fine	to	return	to	a	former	workplace	or
profession,	catch	up	on	your	rest,	and	resolve	old	conflicts.

The	outer	planets,	Jupiter	through	Pluto,	are	retrograde	for	half	of	each	year.
Their	retrograde	periods	are	unlikely	to	be	very	noticeable	unless	they	are	also
making	difficult	aspects	to	planets	in	your	birth	chart	while	retrograde.	The	days
when	they	turn	retrograde	or	direct,	however,	can	be	tense	and	unpredictable.

Jupiter’s	retrograde	periods	are	good	times	to	go	back	to	school,	take	a	long-
delayed	trip,	and	reread	favorite	books.	It’s	better	not	to	gamble,	launch	a	play	or
other	performance,	or	begin	a	teaching	career.	If	you	begin	a	business	while
Jupiter	is	retrograde,	check	your	tendency	to	be	too	generous,	expand	too
quickly,	or	otherwise	take	on	more	than	you	can	comfortably	manage.

When	Saturn	is	retrograde,	it’s	all	too	easy	to	say	yes	when	you	should	say
no.	These	aren’t	good	times	to	commit	to	things,	but	it’s	fine	to	review	existing
commitments.	Avoid	officially	incorporating	a	business.	Address	structural
problems	with	your	home,	organizational	problems	at	work,	or	problems	related
to	disciplining	yourself	or	others.

Uranus’s	retrograde	periods	tend	to	lend	a	desire	to	shake	things	up,	but	the
changes	don’t	quite	happen.	Energy	and	restlessness	build	until	Uranus	turns
direct	again,	then	spill	out	in	an	uncontrolled	way.	This	can	be	a	good	time	to
reconnect	with	distant	friends	and	former	associates	and	revive	old	networks	of
all	kinds.

Neptune’s	retrograde	times	are	good	for	spiritual	retreat	and	reflection,
returning	to	spiritual	places	meaningful	to	you,	and	psychic	and	intuitive	work.
Because	Neptune	normally	makes	it	harder	to	see	clearly,	the	opposite	is	usually
true	during	its	retrograde	periods.	You	just	have	to	be	willing	to	accept	the



true	during	its	retrograde	periods.	You	just	have	to	be	willing	to	accept	the
reality	you	see.

Pluto	retrograde	is	excellent	for	psychological	and	physical	healing	and
cleansing.	It’s	a	time	when	self-control	is	easier	to	harness;	you	might	have
better	success	breaking	addictive	habits	and	addressing	psychological	problems
such	as	phobias,	fears,	and	obsessive-compulsive	tendencies.	Trying	to	control
others	doesn’t	generally	work	well	now,	and	in	fact	will	usually	backfire—but
controlling	and	empowering	yourself	is	good	work	for	Pluto	retrograde.

HOW	TO	FIND	YOUR	TRANSITS
At	the	risk	of	sounding	like	a	codger	who	prefaces	every	statement	with,	“In	my
day…	,”	it	used	to	be	that	every	astrologer	had	a	full	set	of	planetary	tables,
called	ephemerides,	for	at	least	the	current	year,	and	usually	for	the	entire
century.	In	fact,	straddling	two	centuries	as	we	do,	many	of	us	have	two	hundred
years’	worth	of	ephemerides	on	our	bookshelves.

Even	in	this	computer	age,	I	recommend	investing	in	a	good	old-fashioned
ephemeris.	You	can	buy	them	online	for	a	reasonable	price	or	check	your	local
metaphysical	bookstore	for	used	copies.	If	you	have	an	ephemeris,	all	you	have
to	do	is	print	out	your	birth	chart,	flip	to	the	ephemeris	entry	for	the	current	date,
and	draw	the	current	transit	positions	around	the	outside	of	your	chart:



If	you	prefer,	you	can	calculate	the	current	transits	and	generate	a	wheel	with
your	natal	chart	on	the	inside	and	the	transits	around	the	outside.	Any
astrological	software	does	this	easily;	calculate	your	chart	and	a	chart	for	the
current	date	and	place,	and	create	a	biwheel	with	your	birth	chart	in	the	middle.

If	you	don’t	have	software,	you	can	calculate	your	birth	chart	and	current
transits	at	Astrodienst:	1.	Go	to	www.astro.com.
2.	From	the	menu,	select	“Free	Horoscopes,”	then	“Extended	Chart	Selection”

under	“Horoscope	Drawings	and	Calculations.”
3.	Enter	or	select	stored	birth	data.	Click	“Continue.”



3.	Enter	or	select	stored	birth	data.	Click	“Continue.”
4.	Under	“Methods,”	expand	the	drop-down	menu	labeled	“Please	select	the

type	of	chart	you	want.”
5.	Under	“Prognostic	Methods,”	select	“Transits,”	then	“Natal	Chart	and

Transits.”
6.	Hit	“Click	here	to	show	the	chart.”

The	resulting	chart	shows	your	birth	chart	on	the	inside	and	the	current
transits	around	the	outside	of	the	wheel:



NOT	ALL	TRANSITS	ARE	CREATED	EQUAL
Transits	behave	differently	for	you	than	for	your	friends,	family,	or	partner
—because	you	are	different	people.	You	have	different	birth	charts,	with	planets
placed	in	different	signs,	houses,	and	aspects	to	other	planets.

Imagine	you’re	at	dinner	with	a	group	of	friends.	You’re	the	guest	of	honor,
and	throughout	the	evening	your	friends	celebrate	with	stories	about	how	they
met	you	and	adventures	you’ve	shared.	Some	of	these	stories	are	familiar,



met	you	and	adventures	you’ve	shared.	Some	of	these	stories	are	familiar,
burnished	and	embellished	over	years	of	retelling.

But	one	friend	tells	a	story	that	you	don’t	remember	at	all.	Something	about
the	two	of	you	going	to	a	club,	many	years	ago,	and	meeting	a	couple	of	guys.
Apparently,	the	one	for	whom	she	felt	an	immediate,	passionate	attraction
ignored	her	because	he	couldn’t	take	his	eyes	off	you.	Years	of	resentment	and
insecurity	came	to	a	head,	and	soon	thereafter,	she	entered	therapy	to	deal	with
her	feelings	of	inadequacy.

And	you	didn’t	even	remember	that	it	had	happened.
On	the	day	of	the	ill-fated	club	adventure,	transiting	Venus	was	crossing

Pluto	in	your	birth	chart,	bringing	together	themes	of	affection,	attraction,	and
deep	emotion	(and,	in	this	case,	a	jealous	female).	As	we	mentioned	previously,
Venus	moves	quickly.	Every	year,	it	crosses	your	natal	Pluto	for	a	day	or	so;	it’s
not	necessarily	a	memorable	transit.

But	for	your	friend,	it	was	the	other	way	around:	Pluto	was	making	an	aspect
to	Venus.	Pluto	is	the	slowest-moving	of	the	transiting	planets,	taking	about	248
years	to	complete	a	cycle	through	the	zodiac.	Not	everyone	will	experience	Pluto
transiting	over	Venus	in	her	birth	chart	at	all,	and	for	those	who	do,	the	transit
might	take	more	than	a	year	to	unfold.	During	that	time,	relationships	will	be
changed,	and	your	style	of	relating	to	others	will	change,	too.	Pluto	never	leaves
us	unaltered.

In	both	cases,	the	symbolism	of	Venus	meets	that	of	Pluto.	But	a	three-day
transit	from	quick-moving	Venus	to	Pluto	simply	doesn’t	carry	the	same	clout	as
a	yearlong	transit	from	slow-moving	Pluto	to	Venus.

The	effect	of	a	transit	is	usually	much	more	pronounced	if	it	echoes	an	aspect
in	your	birth	chart.	If	you	were	born	with	Venus	and	Pluto	in	difficult	aspect	to
each	other,	you	are	extraordinarily	sensitive	to	this	combination	of	planets	and
the	themes	it	symbolizes.	So	when	transiting	Pluto	connects	with	Venus	in	your
birth	chart,	it’s	as	though	a	doctor	is	testing	your	reflexes	with	his	hammer.	Your
reaction	may	seem	a	little	extreme	to	an	observer,	but	it’s	because	the	transit	is
triggering	every	Venus/Pluto	hurt	and	betrayal	you’ve	ever	felt.

HOW	TO	USE	THIS	BOOK
This	book	is	designed	to	let	you	easily	refer	to	a	specific	planet,	a	particular
house	of	the	horoscope,	or	important	planetary	cycles,	including:

•	A	review	of	each	planet’s	symbolism
•	Identifying	the	ages	when	you	will	encounter	important	points	in	each
planet’s	cycle	•	A	brief	description	of	transiting	planets	in	each	zodiac	sign



planet’s	cycle	•	A	brief	description	of	transiting	planets	in	each	zodiac	sign
•	An	examination	of	each	planet’s	aspects	to	natal	planets	•	A	description	of
what	to	expect	when	transiting	planets	are	in	each	house	of	the	horoscope	•
Tables	and	worksheets	to	help	you	track	and	understand	transit	cycles	in
your	birth	chart	I’ve	done	my	best	to	make	the	book	user-friendly.

You	don’t	have	to	be	a	professional	astrologer	to	work	with	transits!	In	fact,
every	time	you	take	note	of	a	Full	Moon	or	someone’s	birthday,	you’re	working
with	transits.	That	said,	you	will	certainly	get	more	from	this	book	if	you	have	a
basic	knowledge	of	astrology,	including	how	to	read	a	chart	to	locate	planets,
houses,	and	aspects,	and	of	the	basic	meanings	of	those	things.	In	the	Resources
section,	I’ve	recommended	some	of	my	favorite	books	for	learning	astrology—
check	them	out!

Key	Terms

Here	is	a	brief	glossary	of	some	astrological	terms	that	are	used	often	throughout	the	book.
ANGLES:	Four	extremely	important	house	cusps—the	Ascendant	(first	house),	the	Imum	Coeli	or
IC	(fourth	house),	Descendant	(seventh	house),	and	Midheaven	or	MC	(tenth	house).	Transits	to
the	angles	of	the	natal	chart	are	critically	important,	so	you’ll	see	this	term	used	often.
INNER	PLANETS:	The	fast-moving	planets—Sun,	Moon,	Mercury,	Venus,	Mars.
NATAL:	Relates	to	the	birth	chart	or	to	a	planet	or	other	point	in	the	birth	chart.	Your	birth	chart,
for	instance,	is	often	called	your	natal	chart;	Neptune’s	placement	in	your	birth	chart	would	be
called	“natal	Neptune.”
OUTER	PLANETS:	The	slower-moving	planets—Jupiter,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto.
RADIX:	A	chart	for	a	particular	moment	and	place	in	time	other	than	a	birth,	such	as	a	chart
calculated	for	an	event.
RETURN:	The	moment	when	a	transiting	planet	returns	to	the	exact	degree	and	sign	that	it
occupies	in	the	birth	or	radix	chart.

IF	IT’S	NOT	IN	THE	NATAL	CHART…
Astrologers	often	say	that	if	something	is	not	part	of	the	symbolism	of	your	birth
chart,	you	will	never	experience	it	through	your	transits.	J.	K.	Rowling’s	birth
chart	includes	an	extraordinary	configuration	involving	Saturn,	Jupiter,	Venus,
Uranus,	Pluto,	and	likely	the	Moon;	that	is	no	ordinary	Saturn!	The	potential
exists	in	her	birth	chart	for	extremes	of	gain	and	loss,	and	for	the	ability	to
master	both	with	grace	and	compassion.	During	important	transits	involving
Saturn,	this	natal	potential	is	triggered,	and	big	things	happen.

If	there’s	one	thing	that’s	really	struck	me	in	my	career	in	astrology,	it’s	how



If	there’s	one	thing	that’s	really	struck	me	in	my	career	in	astrology,	it’s	how
often	transits	work	out	quite	differently	than	you	think	they	will.	When	an
astrologer,	an	astrology	book,	or	an	astrology	website	tells	you	with	authority
and	assurance	that	a	particular	transit	will	absolutely	bring	something	into	your
life,	take	it	with	a	grain	of	salt—the	good	as	well	as	the	bad.

There	are	so	many	factors	that	affect	how	a	particular	transit	will	play	out,
beginning	with	nonastrological	factors	such	as	age,	gender,	and	other	life
circumstances.	And	astrologically,	transits	don’t	happen	in	a	vacuum.	At	any
given	time,	a	variety	of	really	interesting	and	often	contradictory	transits	could
be	fighting	for	control	over	your	chart.	There	are	also	other	predictive	factors,
such	as	secondary	progressions,	that	may	mitigate	or	amplify	the	symbolism	of	a
transit	(but	that’s	for	another	book!).

As	with	any	area	of	life,	it’s	best	to	respect	those	who	are	knowledgeable
about	astrology	while	at	the	same	time	acknowledging	that	you	are	the	expert
about	your	life.	You	have	to	get	to	know	the	sensitive	funny	bones	of	your	own
chart,	your	own	patterns,	and	your	particular	history	with	a	transiting	planet	to
get	any	sense	of	what’s	really	coming	your	way.	I’ve	written	my	book	in	that
spirit	and	with	that	in	mind.

Not	all	of	us	are	destined	to	be	insanely	wealthy	or	successful,	to	be	a
monarch,	a	president,	or	a	celebrity.	But	even	the	humblest	among	us	have	charts
that	show	the	potential	for	astonishing	achievement.	Understanding	your	transits
can	help	you	recognize	the	major	patterns	of	your	life,	overcome	difficulties,	and
make	the	most	of	the	gifts	that	are	yours.



chapter	2
UNDERSTANDING	PLANETARY	CYCLES

I have	a	confession:	I	don’t	pay	much	attention	to	astrology	on	a	daily	basis.	Imean,	I	think	about	it	in	an	abstract	sense.	I	work	with	clients	and	need	to
know	where	the	current	transiting	planets	are,	or	I	want	to	post	something	to

Facebook	on	the	astrological	tone	of	the	day.	But	could	I	tell	you	where	all	the
planets	are	in	the	sky	at	any	moment?	Do	I	consult	an	ephemeris	when	I	dash	out
to	do	errands	so	I	can	do	them	at	the	“right	time”?	No,	and	no.

However,	not	all	days	are	created	equal.	A	day	when	you	wake	up	in	your
own	bed,	do	the	sort	of	work	you	normally	do,	and	see	the	people	you	normally
see	is	quite	different	from	a	day	when	you	wake	up	in	an	unfamiliar	place,	start	a
new	job,	get	married,	or	face	major	surgery.	On	a	normal	day,	you	can	safely
ignore	all	things	astrological	(though	knowing	a	few	basics	can	help	you	enjoy	a
smoother	and	more	enriching	day).	On	an	out-of-the-ordinary	day,	you	need	all
the	help	you	can	get.

WRITE	YOUR	OWN	DAILY	HOROSCOPE
There	is	a	lot	to	be	said,	little	of	it	good,	on	the	subject	of	daily	horoscopes,	the
kind	you	come	across	in	the	newspaper	or	on	your	favorite	astrological	website.
Horoscopes	use	the	Sun	in	your	chart	as	a	reference	point,	which	is	not	the	worst
idea	in	the	world.	After	all,	the	Sun	is	vitally	important	to	life	on	earth,	and
symbolically,	the	Sun	in	your	birth	chart	is	vitally	important	to	a	healthy	sense	of
self	and	purpose.	Plus,	just	about	everyone	knows	his	or	her	sun	sign.

But	the	Sun,	however	important,	is	not	the	only	celestial	figure	in	the	sky	or
in	your	birth	chart.	Any	evaluation	of	daily	affairs	will	be	incomplete	if	based	on
only	one	feature	of	your	birth	chart.	Is	that	the	end	of	the	world?	Most	days,
there’s	hardly	time	to	read	a	paragraph	in	the	newspaper	while	you	gulp	down
your	morning	coffee,	let	alone	compare	the	day’s	complete	transits	to	your	birth
chart.

But	on	one	of	those	out-of-the	ordinary	days,	daily	horoscopes	begin	to	look
kind	of	attractive.	You	might	welcome	astrology’s	reassurance	on	such	a	day.
Here	are	the	most	important	daily	transits	to	consider.



THE	MOON

The	transiting	Moon	is	the	superstar	of	daily	astrology,	because	it	moves	so
much	faster	than	anything	else.	In	a	little	less	than	one	month,	it	covers	the	entire
zodiac!	So	the	Moon	reflects	the	mood,	tone,	and	rhythms	of	daily	life.

Chapter	9	covers	the	transiting	Moon	in	great	detail,	so	have	a	look	there	for
particulars.	Meantime,	to	get	a	feel	for	the	day	ahead,	here’s	what	you	need	to
know	about	the	transiting	Moon:

•	What	is	the	current	lunar	phase?	That	tells	you	whether	it’s	time	to	move
forward	(waxing	Moon,	between	New	Moon	and	Full	Moon)	or	time	to	tie
up	loose	ends	(waning	Moon,	between	Full	Moon	and	New	Moon).

•	What	is	the	Moon’s	sign	today?	This	will	give	you	a	sense	of	the	day’s
mood,	how	people	instinctively	react	to	situations,	and	even	how	to	dress.

•	What	aspects	is	the	Moon	making	to	other	planets?	A	Moon	approaching	a
conjunction	with	Saturn,	for	instance,	will	emphasize	a	lot	of	the	same
matters	as	a	Moon	in	Capricorn,	the	sign	Saturn	rules.

THE	SUN

The	transiting	Sun	covers	only	1	degree	of	one	zodiac	sign	each	day—it’s	not
exactly	tearing	up	the	sky.	On	a	daily	basis,	it’s	sufficient	to	note	whether	the
Sun	will	make	a	major	aspect	to	another	transiting	planet,	or	a	planet	in	your
birth	chart.

The	Sun	describes	vitality,	self-esteem,	and	sheer	enjoyment	of	life.	If	it	is
making	an	aspect	to	a	very	different	sort	of	planet,	such	as	Pluto,	you	may	feel	as
though	you’re	a	candle	that	has	been	carried	into	a	cave	so	deep	and	dark,	your
flame	is	extinguished.
THE	SUN’S	DAILY	MOTION

One	way	of	thinking	of	a	day	is	to	consider	at	what	time	the	Sun	moves	through
each	part	of	the	sky.	The	sections	of	the	sky,	such	as	those	near	the	horizon	or
directly	overhead,	refer	to	the	houses	of	the	horoscope,	so	the	Sun’s	predictable
daily	motion	can	offer	clues	to	the	activities	best	suited	for	each	time	of	day.

The	Sun’s	motion,	as	represented	in	a	chart,	is	clockwise.	This	is	the	opposite
direction	from	transits,	which	move	through	a	chart	counterclockwise	(unless
they	are	retrograde).	For	instance,	the	Ascendant	is	the	sunrise	point	of	the	chart.
If	you	cast	a	chart	for	a	minute	after	sunrise,	the	Sun	would	be	in	the	twelfth
house.	About	two	hours	later	(depending	on	time	of	year	and	your	latitude),	the
Sun	would	be	in	the	eleventh	house.



The	Sun’s	motion	through	the	sky	is,	very	approximately,
something	like	this:

6	A.M.–8	A.M. Twelfth	house

8	A.M.–10	A.M. Eleventh	house

10	A.M.–NOON Tenth	house

NOON–2	P.M. Ninth	house

2	P.M.–4	P.M. Eighth	house

4	P.M.–6	P.M. Seventh	house

6	P.M.–8	P.M. Sixth	house

8	P.M.–10	P.M. Fifth	house

10	P.M.–MIDNIGHT Fourth	house

MIDNIGHT–2	A.M. Third	house

2	A.M.–4	A.M. Second	house

4	A.M.–6	A.M. First	house

How	is	this	useful?	It	teaches	us	about	the	nature	of	each	hour	of	the	day,	the
right	action	for	those	hours,	and	helps	us	understand	the	houses	themselves.

•	During	the	morning	hours,	our	sleepy,	unformed	Pisces/twelfth	house	selves
move	by	rote,	almost	unconsciously,	to	get	ready	to	meet	the	world.

•	During	the	first	hours	of	work,	we	attend	to	Aquarius/eleventh	house	social
tasks,	greeting	coworkers	and	returning	emails.

•	The	last	two	hours	before	midday,	during	Capricorn/tenth	house	time,	we
finally	dig	in	to	get	some	work	done.

•	At	lunchtime,	during	the	Sagittarius/ninth	house	hours,	we’re	ready	for	a
break	from	the	routine.	We	relish	the	chance	to	get	away	from	our	work	and
the	freedom	to	decide	where,	what,	and	with	whom	we	will	eat.

•	Scorpio/eighth	house	time,	during	midafternoon,	is	when	the	breakthroughs
come;	we’d	nap	if	we	could,	so	our	unconscious	minds	could	work	things
out.

•	Late	afternoon	is	Libra/seventh	house	time,	when	we	do	what	needs	to	be
done	to	“even	out”	the	day	before	we	close	up	shop	and	head	off	to	meet
our	significant	other.

•	Early	evening	is	devoted	to	the	Virgo/sixth	house	chores	of	cooking	and
eating	dinner,	throwing	laundry	in	the	washer,	packing	lunches	for	the	next



eating	dinner,	throwing	laundry	in	the	washer,	packing	lunches	for	the	next
day,	helping	the	kids	with	homework.

•	Then	it’s	Leo/fifth	house	time,	and	we	watch	television,	update	the	blog,
have	some	fun,	relax.	Most	of	us	hit	the	hay	during	the	Cancer/fourth	house
hours,	winding	down	for	some	rest	and	retreat.

•	In	the	early	Gemini/third	house	hours,	our	minds	are	still	active	and	we
haven’t	yet	reached	our	deepest	level	of	sleep.	That	comes	during	the
Taurus/second	house	hours,	which	are	physically	restorative	and	healing.
Finally,	in	the	Aries/first	house	hours	before	dawn,	our	brains	reinforce
important	learning	and	commit	new	skills	to	memory,	helping	us	be	alert	to
what’s	going	on.

OTHER	EXACT	PLANETARY	ASPECTS
If	other	transiting	planets	will	be	making	an	exact	aspect	to	another	transiting
planet	today,	changing	signs,	or	moving	retrograde	or	direct	it’s	worth	noting.
The	energy	of	that	planetary	combination,	sign	change,	or	change	in	direction
will	color	the	entire	day.

SUMMARY:	HOW	TO	PLAN	YOUR	DAY
•	Check	the	Moon’s	current	phase,	sign,	and	aspects	to	other	transiting
planets.

•	Consider	the	Sun’s	aspects	to	other	transiting	planets	or	to	planets	in	your
birth	chart.

•	Use	your	energy	wisely;	let	the	Sun’s	natural	diurnal	motion	guide	your
activities.

•	Pay	attention	to	transiting	planets	changing	signs,	moving	retrograde	or
direct,	or	making	exact	aspects	to	other	transiting	planets.

YOUR	MONTHLY	PLANNER
The	root	of	the	word	month	is	moon,	and	therefore	a	month	refers	to	the	twenty-
eight-day	cycle	of	the	Moon’s	orbit	around	Earth.	But	modern	calendars	are
based	not	on	the	Moon,	but	on	the	Sun’s	path	across	the	ecliptic,	which	takes
365	days.	Our	calendar	months	are	a	function	of	cutting	the	Sun’s	cycle	into
twelve	intervals	of	varying	lengths,	so	it	makes	sense	to	pay	some	attention	to
the	Sun	as	part	of	your	monthly	planning.

Note	the	dates	when	any	planets	are	changing	signs	or	turning	retrograde	or
direct.	On	these	days	you’ll	notice	a	significant	shift	of	energy	around	the
matters	ruled	by	that	planet.



matters	ruled	by	that	planet.
THE	MOON

Note	the	dates	of	the	New	and	Full	Moon,	and	in	particular	the	degree	and	sign
of	each.	Then	find	which	houses	of	your	birth	chart	those	degrees	fall	in.	This
will	tell	you	which	areas	of	your	life	are	due	for	new	beginnings	(New	Moon)
and	a	release	of	habits	or	behaviors	(Full	Moon)	during	this	month.
THE	SUN

The	Sun	changes	signs	each	month,	usually	within	a	couple	of	days	of	the	20th.
See	chapter	9	for	an	in-depth	examination	of	the	Sun’s	sign	and	aspects	to	your
natal	planets.	Depending	on	the	sizes	of	the	houses	in	your	birth	chart,	the	Sun
will	usually	spend	about	a	month	in	each.	(If	you	were	born	during	summer	or
winter	months	at	a	latitude	very	far	from	the	equator,	some	houses	will	be	much
larger	than	others.)
MERCURY:	CHANGES	SIGNS	EVERY	FEW	WEEKS

Within	a	given	month,	Mercury	will	usually	change	signs	at	least	once.	The
exception	is	when	Mercury	is	retrograde	and	spends	a	bit	longer	in	a	sign.
Mercury’s	transit	of	a	sign	brings	fresh	ideas	and	a	craving	for	variety	and
encourages	a	particular	style	of	communication.	It	may	not	sound	too	exciting—
most	of	us	are	interested	in	stuff	such	as	love	and	money—but	trust	me:	Mercury
is	a	lot	more	important	than	you	may	think,	because	he	influences	how	you	look
at	the	world	and	how	you	frame	your	current	circumstances.
VENUS:	CHANGES	SIGNS	EVERY	MONTH

Venus’s	transits	describe	how	you	seek	enjoyment	and	pleasure,	as	well	as	your
changing	financial	and	relationship	needs.	Venus	usually	changes	signs	at	least
once	each	month	and	usually	transits	one	house	of	your	chart	in	that	time.

Note	the	days	when	Venus	will	change	sign	or	move	into	a	new	house	of	your
chart.	If	Venus	is	retrograde	this	month,	take	careful	note	of	the	retrograde’s
beginning	and	ending	dates;	avoid	major	purchases	and	permanent	relationship
changes	during	this	period.

SUMMARY:	HOW	TO	PLAN	YOUR	MONTH
•	Note	the	dates	when	planets	are	changing	signs	or	direction	(retrograde	or
direct).

•	Find	where	the	New	and	Full	Moons	will	fall	in	your	chart.
•	Consider	the	Sun’s	current	sign	and	the	house	it	is	transiting	in	your	birth
chart.



chart.

YOUR	YEARLY	PLANNER
If	you’re	like	many	people,	you	welcome	each	new	calendar	year	with
resolutions,	planners,	and	a	big-picture	time	line	for	what	you’d	like	to
accomplish	in	the	year	ahead.	If	you’d	like	a	little	help	from	astrology,	here	are
the	most	relevant	cycles	to	keep	in	mind.
THE	SUN’S	ANNUAL	CYCLE

The	year	itself	is	based	on	the	Sun’s	complete	journey	through	the	zodiac.	The
Sun	spends	about	one	month	in	each	sign.	During	the	year,	keep	an	eye	out	for
days	when	the	transiting	Sun:

•	Returns	to	its	exact	position	in	your	birth	chart.	This	happens	once	each	year
within	a	day	on	either	side	of	your	birthday	and	is	called	the	Solar	Return.

•	Crosses	(makes	a	conjunction	to)	the	angles	of	your	chart—the	Ascendant
(first	house	cusp),	IC	(fourth	house	cusp),	Descendant	(seventh	house
cusp),	and	Midheaven	(tenth	house	cusp).	These	are	powerful	days	when
there	is	a	good	chance	of	serious	movement	in	your	immediate	environment
(Ascendant),	home	(IC),	relationships	(Descendant),	and	career
(Midheaven).	(See	chapter	9	for	more	about	the	Sun’s	transits	and	cycle.)

ECLIPSES

Every	six	months,	the	paths	of	the	Sun,	Moon,	and	Earth	intersect	in	exactly	the
right	way	and	we	get	a	solar	eclipse,	which	is	usually	accompanied	by	a	lunar
eclipse	within	two	weeks	before	or	after.

Eclipses	fall	in	a	pair	of	signs	for	about	a	year	and	a	half,	which	means	they
also	affect	a	pair	of	houses	in	your	chart.	When	eclipses	occur	within	about	4
degrees	of	a	conjunction,	square,	or	opposition	of	a	natal	planet,	you’ll	usually
see	some	kind	of	crisis	or	moment	of	truth	in	the	area	of	life	suggested	by	that
planet.	Eclipses	have	eighteen-and	nineteen-year	cycles.	(See	chapter	9	for	more
on	eclipses.)
MAJOR	RETROGRADE	PERIODS

We	covered	the	meaning	of	individual	planetary	retrograde	periods	in	chapter	1.
The	information	you’ll	particularly	want	to	note	for	your	annual	planner	are
periods	when	Mercury	will	be	retrograde	(for	about	three	weeks,	three	times
each	year)	and	when	Venus	or	Mars	will	be	retrograde	(this	doesn’t	happen
every	year).

The	houses	of	your	birth	chart	where	these	transiting	retrograde	periods	take



The	houses	of	your	birth	chart	where	these	transiting	retrograde	periods	take
place	are	especially	important,	because	they	describe	where	you	will	experience
delays,	obstacles,	and	misunderstandings	related	to	communication	(Mercury),
money	and	relationships	(Venus),	and	work	(Mars).
JUPITER

Jupiter	transits	a	sign	of	the	zodiac	in	about	one	year.	Take	note	of	the	signs	and
houses	of	your	chart	that	will	receive	Jupiter’s	adventurous	spirit	this	year.

Approximately	every	twelve	years,	transiting	Jupiter	will	return	to	its	position
in	your	birth	chart,	beginning	a	new	twelve-year	cycle	of	adventures	and
learning.	That	sounds	saccharine,	but	not	all	Jupiter	adventures	feel	very	happy
at	the	time.	That	said,	Jupiter	crossing	over	the	angles	of	your	chart	or	moving
through	your	Sun’s	sign,	or	a	sign	in	which	you	have	many	natal	planets,	can	be
one	of	the	nicest	periods	of	your	life.
SATURN,	URANUS,	NEPTUNE,	AND	PLUTO

Saturn	takes	about	two	and	a	half	years	to	move	through	a	sign	of	the	zodiac.
Always	keep	track	of	where	Saturn	is	transiting	(it	will	generally	be	impossible
to	ignore);	it’s	useful	to	know	if	it	will	change	signs	or	move	into	a	new	house	of
your	chart,	or	make	a	conjunction,	square,	or	opposition	to	one	or	more	planets
in	your	birth	chart.

Likewise,	if	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	is	changing	signs,	moving	into	a	new
house	of	your	chart,	or	making	a	conjunction,	square,	or	opposition	to	any	natal
planets,	expect	some	major	life	changes.

SUMMARY:	HOW	TO	PLAN	YOUR	YEAR
•	Note	the	dates	when	the	transiting	Sun	will	conjunct	your	natal	Sun,
Ascendant,	IC,	Descendant,	and	Midheaven.	These	are	dates	when	your
personal	charisma	is	especially	strong.

•	Find	where	the	year’s	eclipses	will	fall	in	your	birth	chart,	by	house	and	by
close	aspect	to	natal	planets,	to	discover	the	areas	of	your	life	where	change
is	likely	and	necessary	this	year.

•	Note	the	dates	when	Mercury,	Venus,	and	Mars	will	be	retrograde	and	plan
accordingly	(see	chapter	1	and	table	2	of	the	appendix).

•	Note	the	sign	and	current	house	placement	of	transiting	Jupiter,	Saturn,
Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto.	Also	note	whether	you’re	experiencing	a	major
aspect	from	one	of	these	planets	to	their	positions	in	your	birth	chart	(see
chapters	3	to	7).

•	Note	the	dates	of	any	conjunctions	from	Jupiter,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,



•	Note	the	dates	of	any	conjunctions	from	Jupiter,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,
or	Pluto	to	an	angle	of	the	chart.	A	month	or	so	on	either	side	of	these	dates
are	crucial	periods—and	some	may	be	among	the	most	important	of	your
life.

•	Note	any	aspects	between	transiting	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	and
the	natal	Sun,	Moon,	Mercury,	Venus,	or	Mars.

RENDEZVOUS	WITH	DESTINY
If	you	want	to	know	when	to	expect	the	major	transition	periods	of	your	life,
consider	the	cycle	of	the	transiting	outer	planets.	The	cycle	of	these	planets	in
aspect	to	their	natal	position	is	very	rich	and	somewhat	more	universal.
Everyone	gets	a	Saturn	return	around	the	age	of	twenty-eight	or	twenty-nine;
everyone	endures	the	Uranian	identity	crises	of	ages	twenty-one	and	forty-two;
no	one	enjoys	Pluto’s	square	(ages	vary	depending	on	Pluto’s	sign	at	your	birth,
but	you’ll	go	through	it	with	your	age	cohort).

Sketch	out	Saturn’s	squares,	oppositions,	and	conjunctions	with	the	natal
position.	Note	Uranus’s	squares	and	opposition.	List	Neptune’s	sextile,	square,
and	opposition.	Pin	down	the	dates	of	Pluto’s	sextile,	square	(especially),	and
trine.	Along	with	these	planets	crossing	the	angles	of	your	chart,	this	will	give
you	a	very	succinct	framework	for	anticipating	the	milestones	of	your	life.

The	slow-moving	transiting	planets	are	really	the	planets	of	destiny.	They’re
the	big	guys	whose	transits	have	a	deeply—and	usually	permanently—
transformative	effect	on	your	life.

Jupiter’s	returns	every	twelve	years	divide	your	life	into	important	periods	of
expansion.	All	things	being	equal,	these	are	usually	years	when	good	breaks
come	your	way.	Jupiter’s	oppositions	are	a	low	point	in	the	cycle	and	represent
years	with	significant	setbacks.

When	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	crosses	one	of	the	angles	of	your
birth	chart,	the	wheel	of	your	life	is	pulled	sharply,	and	you	jolt	in	a	new
direction.	Other	aspects	from	these	planets	to	the	angles	of	the	chart	are
important,	too,	but	these	are	the	huge,	obvious	ones.	Sketch	them	out	on	a	piece
of	paper.	Give	them	a	few	degrees	of	orb.	You’ll	quickly	glimpse	some	of	the
most	pivotal	moments	you’ll	experience.

Finally,	note	the	years	when	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	will	make	a
conjunction,	square,	or	opposition	to	the	Sun	and	Moon	in	your	chart.	Their
aspects	to	other	natal	planets	are	important,	too,	of	course,	but	their	aspects	to
the	Sun	and	Moon	are	particularly	crucial,	and	important	transits	to	these	points
will	usually	make	for	some	very	interesting	years.



SUMMARY:	LONG-RANGE	PLANNING
•	Map	out	a	time	line	based	on	the	naturally	recurring	cycles	for	each	planet.
See	chapters	3	to	7	to	find	the	ages	when	each	slow-moving	planet	reaches
critical	points	in	its	cycle.

•	Note	the	years	of	your	Jupiter	returns,	which	occur	about	every	twelve	years
from	your	birth.

•	Mark	the	years	when	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto	will	cross	the
angles	of	your	birth	chart.	Saturn	will	normally	cross	every	angle	at	least
twice,	twenty-nine	years	apart.	Uranus	will	cross	every	angle	for	those	who
live	to	age	eighty-four.	Neptune	and	Pluto	will	typically	cross	a	couple	of
the	four	angles	once	in	your	lifetime.

•	Note	the	years	when	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	will	make	a
conjunction,	square,	or	opposition	to	the	Sun	and	Moon	in	your	chart.
While	these	outer	planets’	aspects	to	other	natal	planets	are	important,	their
aspects	to	the	Sun	and	Moon	are	particularly	crucial.



part	II:
PLANETARY	TRANSITS	TO	OTHER

PLANETS

T ransits	work	on	two	levels.	One	is	the	interaction	of	transiting	planets	with
individual	points	in	your	birth	chart.	The	other	is	the	interplay	between
transiting	planets	themselves.	I’m	writing	this,	for	instance,	on	a	day	when

transiting	Mars	is	approaching	a	conjunction	with	transiting	Saturn.	They’re	still
separated	by	2	degrees,	and	since	Mars	moves	about	1	degree	every	two	days,
the	aspect	won’t	be	exact	for	about	four	more	days.	But	they	are	within	orb	of
one	another,	and	today	my	social	media	feeds	are	packed	with	people	talking



about	their	frustrations,	the	obstacles	in	their	way,	or	not	being	able	to
accomplish	anything	at	work.

Simultaneously,	both	Mars	and	Saturn	are	in	a	square	aspect	to	the	natal	Sun
in	my	birth	chart.	I’ve	been	battling	writer’s	block	for	the	past	few	days,	which
is	the	last	thing	a	Leo	writer	on	a	deadline	needs!

Which	is	more	important:	the	aspects	a	transiting	planet	is	making	to	other
planets	in	the	sky	right	now,	or	the	aspects	it	makes	to	your	birth	chart?	The
answer	is	that	they	are	probably	equally	important,	with	transiting	planets	in
aspect	to	each	other	describing	the	circumstances	everyone	is	dealing	with	in	one
way	or	another,	and	transiting	planets	in	aspect	to	your	natal	planets	saying	it’s
no	longer	a	collective	experience	but	one	very	personal	to	you.

When	a	configuration	between	two	planets	in	your	birth	chart	is	replicated	by
the	same	two	transiting	planets,	that’s	something	worth	watching.

Let’s	say	there	is	a	square	aspect	in	your	birth	chart	between	the	Sun	and
Neptune.	Since	the	transiting	Sun	goes	through	the	entire	zodiac	annually,	it	will
make	two	square	aspects	to	transiting	Neptune	each	year.	These	two	days	should
have	an	impact	on	you—even	if	neither	the	Sun	nor	Neptune	is	making	an	aspect
to	the	Sun	or	Neptune	in	your	birth	chart.

There’s	a	kind	of	sympathy	between	what’s	happening	in	the	sky	and	what’s
happening	on	earth.	You	are	a	representative	of	the	gods	whose	planets	are	in
aspect	to	each	other	in	your	birth	chart.	And	when	the	gods	in	the	sky	quarrel,
their	representatives	on	earth	feel	as	though	they	have	a	dog	in	the	fight.

THE	DIFFERENCE	ASPECTS	MAKE
I’ve	chosen,	in	this	book,	to	explore	pairs	of	planets	in	combination	without	any
reference	to	the	specific	aspect	between	them.	If	you’re	getting	started	with
transits,	I	find	that	it’s	best	to	keep	things	simple	by	just	considering	the	natures
of	the	two	planets	themselves	and	what	might	happen	when	they	come	together.

If	you’re	more	comfortable	with	aspects,	here	is	a	guide	to	adjusting	your
interpretation	of	the	planetary	combinations	based	on	the	aspect:
Conjunction:	There	is	concentrated	energy,	but	possibly	a	power	struggle
between	the	two	planets.
Sextile:	An	opportunity	arises	to	explore	the	themes	presented.
Square:	An	urge	to	act	is	too	strong	to	ignore,	or	conflict	with	another	person
arises.



Trine:	Matters	proceed	without	impediment.	This	is	usually,	but	not	always,
positive.
Quincunx:	An	adjustment	must	be	made.
Opposition:	Awareness	dawns,	and	objectivity	about	the	matter	is	gained,	often
through	interaction	with	another	person.

WHICH	TRANSITS	ARE	MOST	IMPORTANT
A	planet	transiting	a	house	of	your	chart	is	like	a	visitor	who	has	come	to	stay.
Depending	on	the	size	of	the	house	or	the	speed	of	the	planet,	the	duration	of	its
visit	could	be	anywhere	from	a	few	days	to	thirty	years.

The	transit	of	a	faster-moving	planet	(the	Moon,	Mercury,	the	Sun,	Venus,	or
Mars)	is	like	having	a	guest	stay	for	a	long	weekend,	or	at	most	like	hosting	an
exchange	student	for	a	semester.	You	become	conscious	of	how	small	your	guest
room	is,	how	erratic	your	antique	plumbing,	how	thin	your	walls,	and	how
limited	the	repertoire	of	meals	that	you	cook.	Some	of	these	observations	make
you	uncomfortable,	and	some	rearrangement	of	your	daily	routine	is	inevitable.
But	because	the	transit	doesn’t	last	very	long,	the	observations	don’t	necessarily
lead	to	permanent	change.

The	transit	of	a	slower-moving	planet	(Jupiter,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or
Pluto),	on	the	other	hand,	is	like	undergoing	a	major	home	renovation.	(In	the
case	of	Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto,	it	can	be	like	a	renovation	that	was	not
exactly	your	choice—like	rebuilding	after	a	natural	disaster!)	It	begins	with
destruction,	rubble,	and	a	total	disruption	of	your	life.	In	the	end,	you	have
something	new	and	different	that	you	(hopefully)	like,	or	at	least	appreciate.

In	evaluating	your	current	transits,	begin	with	the	slow-moving	planets.
That’s	where	the	major	renovations	are	happening.	These	transits	are	the
constant,	low-level	background	noise	of	your	life.	Everything	else	that	happens
is	a	reaction	to	or	defined	by	major	transits.

Armed	with	the	knowledge	that	you’ll	be	dealing	with	those	transits	for	a
while	and	will	eventually	come	to	a	deeper	and	ever-evolving	understanding	of
them,	it’s	fine	to	turn	your	attention	to	the	faster	transits	for	a	temperature	check
of	your	daily	and	monthly	life.



chapter	3
TRANSITS	OF	JUPITER:	THE	LEAP	OF	FAITH

Planetary	Dossier:	JUPITER

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	12	years
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	about	1	year
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	approximately	3	weeks
STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Sagittarius,	Cancer,	Pisces
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Gemini,	Capricorn,	Virgo
KEYWORDS:	learning,	beliefs,	meaning,	long-distance	travel,	big,	hope,	risk,	foreigners,	culture

O ne	afternoon	in	late	May	1971,	my	mother	showed	up	at	my	elementary
school	with	the	family	station	wagon	packed	and	waiting	outside.	We
were	moving,	that	very	afternoon,	from	our	Indiana	farm	to	the	suburbs	of

Los	Angeles.
It	wasn’t	a	surprise.	Mom	had	been	planning	this	move	since	soon	after	my

father	died	in	an	accident	almost	exactly	one	year	earlier.	Her	sister	lived	near
Los	Angeles,	and	we	were	headed	there	to	get	a	fresh	start.

The	problem	was	that	no	matter	how	ghastly	it	felt	to	stay	in	the	house	where
we	had	lived	with	Dad,	on	the	land	he	had	lovingly	farmed,	without	him—I
didn’t	want	to	leave.	This	was	the	only	home	I	had	ever	known,	and	I	wanted	to
stay	where	I	felt	safe.

I	didn’t	know	it	then,	but	on	that	late	May	afternoon,	transiting	Jupiter	and
Neptune	were	crossing	my	natal	Ascendant	in	adventuresome	Sagittarius,	the
sign	of	the	traveler.	The	Ascendant	is	one	of	the	orienting	compass	points	of	the
chart,	the	place	where	we	are	pinned	to	a	particular	outlook	of	attitude	and
geography.	Big	transits	to	this	angle	can	often	bring	a	major	move.	And	Neptune
can	speak	of	sadness,	yes,	and	grief.

But	traditional	astrologers	called	Jupiter	“the	Greater	Benefic.”	Jupiter	is
supposed	to	bring	blessings,	bounty,	and	good	luck,	not	a	reluctant	exodus	from
the	ancestral	home.	And	definitely	not	tears.



Had	I	been	to	see	an	astrologer	in	the	preceding	months,	she	would	probably
have	told	me,	with	great	sincerity,	that	a	grand	adventure	and	great	blessings	lie
ahead.	And	on	the	day	we	left	for	California,	I	would	have	cursed	that	astrologer
as	a	flat-out	liar.

In	the	years	ahead,	though,	I	would	have	recognized	how	very	right	she	had
been.	Indeed,	the	grandest	adventure	of	my	young	life	began	that	day.	Living	in
a	major	city	opened	up	possibilities	unimaginable	to	a	girl	on	a	tiny	farm.
Moving	to	a	bigger	place,	and	a	bigger	life,	absolutely	transformed	my
worldview	and	my	expectations	for	myself.

I’ve	said,	again	and	again,	that	moving	to	California	was	the	best	thing	that
ever	happened	to	me.	And	had	I	known	about	Jupiter	back	then,	I	might	have
recognized	that	sooner—might	have	taken	a	leap	of	faith	and	embraced	my	new
adventure	with	an	open	heart.

As	an	astrologer,	I	spend	my	days	talking	to	people	in	all	kinds	of	situations.
Often	they’re	in	great	pain.	They	need	encouragement	and	hope.	Fortunately,
even	in	the	midst	of	the	worst	that	life	can	dish	out	and	the	very	hardest
astrological	transits,	there	is	always	Jupiter	somewhere	in	their	lives.
Somewhere,	adventure	beckons,	and	there	is	a	reason	to	hope…	even	when	it
doesn’t	initially	look	very	hopeful	at	all.

THE	NATURE	OF	THE	BEAST
Transiting	Jupiter	has	a	twelve-year	cycle	around	the	Sun,	spending	about	one
year	in	each	sign.	He	is	like	a	supersized	version	of	the	Sun,	with	its	twelve-
month	cycle	and	one-month	visit	in	each	sign.	When	we	think	of	the	Sun	and
Leo,	the	sign	it	rules,	we	imagine	the	king	of	beasts—but	in	astrological	terms,
it’s	more	appropriate	to	think	of	Leo	as	the	prince.	For	in	myth,	it	was	Jupiter,
Zeus,	who	was	king	of	the	gods.

As	king,	Jupiter	can	have	anything	he	desires.	He	snaps	his	fingers,	and
others	scurry	to	do	his	bidding.	All	the	most	beautiful	women,	all	the	riches	of
the	realm,	are	his	to	command.	He	is	bound	only	by	the	limitations	of	his	own
kingdom,	and	he	makes	it	his	life’s	work	to	expand	that	kingdom	to	encompass
ever	more	land,	people,	and	riches.

A	good	king	shares	this	wealth	with	his	people.	He	welcomes	diversity	of
opinion	and	supports	education,	defends	the	freedom	to	practice	religion	in	one’s
own	way	(or	not	at	all),	and	provides	open	space	for	people	to	enjoy	the
outdoors.

Transits	of	Jupiter	are	usually	characterized	as	bringing	luck—times	when
you	get	to	feel	like	the	king	or	queen	of	your	realm,	when	nothing	is	denied	you



you	get	to	feel	like	the	king	or	queen	of	your	realm,	when	nothing	is	denied	you
provided	you’re	bold	enough	to	claim	it.	But	these	transits	can	also	bring
setbacks,	usually	due	to	poor	judgment	or	an	insatiable	appetite	for	more—more
lands	to	conquer,	more	wealth,	more	adulation.	You	may	overeat,	overspend,
and	dominate	every	conversation	with	your	monologues,	refusing	to	share	the
stage.	Transits	of	Jupiter	are	generally	terrific,	but	it’s	also	entirely	possible	to
emerge	from	them	with	a	bigger	waistline,	a	smaller	bank	account,	and	fewer
friends	returning	your	phone	calls.

USING	JUPITER’S	CYCLE
Jupiter’s	transits	require	a	leap	of	faith	and	willingness	to	conquer	new	frontiers.
But	Jupiter	is	also	a	planet	of	learning	and	wisdom,	and	his	transiting	cycle	gives
us	twelve	years	to	both	make	bold	leaps	and	learn	from	mistakes.

The	Jupiter	cycle	can	be	divided	into	four	segments	of	about	three	years	each.
Each	of	these	segments	represents	an	important	phase	of	the	cycle—initiation,
cultivation,	review,	and	adjustment.	When	Jupiter	makes	a	conjunction	with	any
planet	or	important	point	in	your	chart,	an	adventure	is	beginning,	though	you
may	not	recognize	it	yet.	Next,	count	forward,	three	years	at	a	time,	and	watch
the	story	unfold.

Jupiter	is	the	ruler	of	Sagittarius	and	the	co-ruler	(along	with	Neptune)	of
Pisces.	Transits	of	Jupiter	have	particular	significance	for	you	if	you	were	born
with	the	Sun,	Moon,	or	Ascendant	in	one	of	these	signs,	and	you	will	be
especially	attuned	to	its	twelve-year	cycle,	making	notable	changes	in	your	life
at	your	Jupiter	returns.
THE	JUPITER	RETURN
Ages	12,	24,	36,	48,	60,	72,	84,	96
Every	twelve	years,	Jupiter	returns	to	the	same	degree	of	the	same	sign.	When
it’s	the	same	degree	and	sign	it	occupies	in	your	birth	chart,	we	call	this	a	Jupiter
return.	Each	Jupiter	return	marks	the	beginning	of	a	new	growth	cycle	in	the	area
of	life	represented	by	the	house,	aspects,	and	sign	of	your	natal	Jupiter.

In	the	tarot,	the	Fool	card	depicts	a	happy-go-lucky	fellow	who	is	about	to
step	off	a	cliff.	This	is	more	or	less	how	the	beginning	of	a	Jupiter	cycle	feels.
You’re	stepping	off	a	familiar	cliff	into	the	unknown,	initiating	a	new	twelve-
year	cycle	and	moving	your	life’s	story	a	bit	further	along.

Jupiter	returns	happen	every	twelve	years,	so	any	age	divisible	by	twelve	is
one	when	you’ll	begin	a	new	cycle	of	personal	growth,	when	a	part	of	you
yearns	to	push	past	your	comfort	zone	and	expand	your	realm.
THE	OPENING	JUPITER	SQUARE



THE	OPENING	JUPITER	SQUARE
Ages	3,	15,	27,	39,	51,	63,	75,	87,	99
At	the	first	square	of	the	Jupiter	cycle,	you	begin	to	better	understand	the	nature
of	the	adventure	you	embarked	on	three	years	prior.	Now	it’s	time	to	take	an
active	role	in	determining	the	direction	it	will	take.

Let’s	imagine	that	Jupiter	is	in	the	tenth	house	of	your	birth	chart.	You	might
expect	a	Jupiter	return	in	the	tenth	house,	the	House	of	Career,	to	bring
tremendous	career	success.	But	for	a	client	of	mine,	Tom,	it	brought	the	loss	of
his	job.	For	the	next	couple	of	years	he	felt	lost,	trying	to	imagine	what	to	do
next.	To	pass	the	time,	he	built	a	website	and	began	posting	articles	and	tips.

When	Jupiter	made	a	square	to	his	natal	Jupiter	three	years	later,	he	realized
he	had	found	a	line	of	work	that	he	enjoyed	immensely	and	began	to	establish	a
credible	consulting	business.	The	nature	of	his	new	career	adventure	was	coming
into	focus,	and	now	he	could	channel	his	energy	in	a	specific	direction.
THE	JUPITER	OPPOSITION
Ages	6,	18,	30,	42,	54,	66,	78,	90
At	the	Jupiter	opposition,	it’s	time	to	take	a	long	look	at	your	progress.	Are	you
taking	the	right	kinds	of	chances?	Do	you	have	more	to	learn	about	your	career?
How	are	others	in	your	field	doing?	The	Jupiter	opposition	feels	like	the	low
point	in	the	cycle.	Even	if	you’ve	done	everything	right,	the	breaks	just	don’t
seem	to	come	your	way.	Fortunately,	Jupiter	comes	bearing	the	gift	of	optimism
and	philosophy.	From	this	perspective,	you	can	see	that	there	are	actually	more
things	you	could	try.	You	come	to	a	better	understanding	of	any	mistakes	that
you’ve	made	along	the	way.	After	reaching	this	low	point	in	its	point	in	the
cycle,	Jupiter	bounces	back	and	so	does	your	optimism,	along	with	some	lucky
breaks.
THE	CLOSING	JUPITER	SQUARE
Ages	9,	21,	33,	45,	57,	69,	81,	93
You	may	feel	ready	to	burst	out	of	your	shell.	You’re	getting	close	to	the	finish
line,	and	it’s	time	to	make	the	final	push.	Some	lose	heart	now,	give	up,	act	out,
and	sabotage	their	chances	for	success.	But	when	it	comes	to	Jupiter,	go	big	or
go	home,	as	the	saying	goes.	Jupiter	wants	the	big	win!	Whatever	you	started
nine	years	ago,	don’t	give	up	now.

TRANSITING	JUPITER	BY	SIGN
Jupiter	urges	you	to	grow,	expand,	take	risks,	and	seek	meaning.	His	transits
through	the	twelve	signs	of	the	zodiac	prescribe	the	avenues	through	which	all	of
us,	simultaneously,	seek	to	expand	our	horizons.	The	extent	to	which	this	affects



us,	simultaneously,	seek	to	expand	our	horizons.	The	extent	to	which	this	affects
you	directly	will	depend	on	planets	you	may	have	in	that	sign,	and	the	house
through	which	Jupiter	is	transiting	(see	part	III	for	an	exploration	of	the
transiting	planets	in	the	houses	of	the	horoscope).

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ARIES	

Persecuted	for	their	faith,	a	group	of	English	pilgrims	migrates	to	the	New
World.	A	family	who	have	lost	everything	in	the	Great	Depression	and	watched
their	Oklahoma	home	subsumed	by	the	Dust	Bowl	packs	up	a	truck	and	heads
west.	Pioneers	launch	themselves	into	the	unknown	for	an	opportunity	to
improve	their	lot	in	life	and	to	be	more	fully	themselves.

Aries	is	the	sign	of	the	pioneer,	the	indomitable	spark	of	individuality.	While
Jupiter	is	in	this	sign,	fortune	favors	the	brave.	It	is	time	to	claim	your	true	self,
usually	through	meeting	challenging	and	even	threatening	circumstances.

It	is	time	to	break	free	from	any	situation	that	makes	it	impossible	for	you	to
truly	be	yourself.	Accept	challenges,	even	if	you’re	not	sure	you	can	meet	them.
The	rule	of	thumb	while	transiting	Jupiter	is	in	Aries	is,	if	you	think	something
can’t	be	done,	by	all	means,	do	it!
Biggest	rewards:	Aries,	Leo,	Sagittarius
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn
Significant	opportunities:	Gemini,	Aquarius
Jupiter	in	Aries	(2000–2050):	Oct.	22,	1999–Feb.	14,	2000;	June	5–Sept.	8,
2010;	Jan.	22–June	4,	2011;	May	10–Oct.	27,	2022;	Dec.	20,	2022–May	16,
2023;	Apr.	21,	2034–Apr.	29,	2035;	Apr.	4,	2046–Apr.	13,	2047

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	TAURUS	

Jupiter	awakens	the	urge	to	grow,	explore,	and	seek	meaning.	In	Taurus,	Jupiter
seeks	ways	to	increase	prosperity,	security,	and	pleasure,	and	for	meaning	in
nature,	in	the	enjoyment	of	the	world’s	bounty,	and	in	the	senses.	Gradual,
steady	growth	is	favored	over	sudden,	dramatic	growth	spurts.

For	thousands	of	years,	cultures	have	revered	the	cow	or	bull	as	a	symbol	of
wealth	and	of	Earth’s	bounty.	The	blessings	of	Jupiter	in	Taurus	are	many:	a
sense	that	anything	is	possible,	that	security	is	within	reach,	and	that	pleasures
are	abundant.	But	the	combination	of	Jupiter’s	respect	for	doctrine	and	Taurus’s
conservatism	has	a	potential	downside:	the	unwillingness	to	confront	needed
change.	The	idiom	sacred	cows	(based	on	the	reverential	treatment	of	cows	by



Hindus	and	in	other	cultures)	refers	to	something	that	is	considered	immune
from	question	or	criticism.	While	Jupiter	is	in	Taurus,	we	are	unlikely	to	rethink
entrenched	attitudes	or	policies,	however	inconvenient,	outmoded,	or	even
harmful	they	may	be.

Commit	to	Jupiterian	endeavors,	such	as	education	or	writing,	that	require
Taurus’s	patience	and	stamina.	Invest	in	knowledge.	Grow	a	garden.	Spend	time
in	nature.	Hug	a	cow.
Biggest	rewards:	Taurus,	Virgo,	Capricorn
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius
Significant	opportunities:	Cancer,	Pisces
Jupiter	in	Taurus	(2000–2050):	Feb.	14–June	30,	2000;	June	4,	2011–June	11,
2012;	May	16,	2023–May	25,	2024;	Apr.	29,	2035–May	9,	2036;	Apr.	13,	1947–
Apr.	22,	2048

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	GEMINI	

Jupiter	is	at	something	of	a	disadvantage	in	Gemini.	At	first	glance,	the	two	have
lots	in	common:	a	love	of	travel,	learning,	communicating.	But	scratch	the
surface	and	you’ll	find	that	they	approach	this	common	ground	from	opposite
points	of	view.	Jupiter	rules	higher	education,	but	Gemini	prefers	self-directed
learning	and	practical	knowledge	and	skills.	Jupiter	favors	long-distance	travel
to	exotic	places;	Gemini	prefers	shorter	journeys	by	car,	train,	or	on	foot.

While	Jupiter	transits	Gemini,	you	may	not	be	sure	whether	to	finish	your
novel	or	write	letters	to	friends,	or	whether	to	apply	for	a	passport	or	purchase	a
rail	pass.	One	thing	is	certain,	though:	Jupiter’s	transit	through	Gemini	is	a
tremendous	time	for	socializing.	You	may	have	opportunities	to	connect	with
people	you	haven’t	seen	for	many	years,	or	online	friends	you’ve	never	met	in
person.
Biggest	rewards:	Gemini,	Libra,	Aquarius
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces
Significant	opportunities:	Aries,	Leo
Jupiter	in	Gemini	(2000–2050):	June	30,	2000–July	12,	2001;	June	11,	2012–
June	25,	2013;	May	25,	2024–June	9,	2025;	May	9,	2036–May	23,	2037;	Apr.
22–Sept.	23,	2048;	Nov.	12,	2048–May	5,	2049



TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	CANCER	

It	may	seem	odd	that	the	planet	of	travel	and	adventure	should	have	been
considered	by	traditional	astrologers	to	be	particularly	strong	in	Cancer,	the	sign
of	home	and	family.	But	think	about	it.	After	you’ve	traveled	to	a	foreign
country	or	lived	in	a	city	far	from	your	birth	home,	you’ve	got	one	more	place	in
the	world	that	feels	familiar	to	you.	Spend	a	little	time	sharing	a	meal	with
people	from	a	different	world,	and	you	begin	to	understand	that	they’re	not	that
different	from	you	after	all.

“Travel	is	broadening,”	the	old	saying	goes.	And	it	is—but	not	because	of	the
novelty	of	visiting	unfamiliar	places	and	eating	weird	food.	Travel	is	broadening
because	it	enlarges	the	boundaries	of	what	feels	safe	and	familiar	to	you.	While
Jupiter	is	transiting	through	Cancer,	open	your	home	and	heart	and	venture	out
to	claim	more	territory.	The	more	you	see	of	the	world,	the	more	of	it	feels	like
home	to	you,	and	the	more	of	its	people	feel	like	your	family.

Jupiter	in	Cancer	can	also	be	a	favorable	time	to	enlarge	your	home	or
renovate	(but	mind	your	budget).	You	may	find	new	members	joining	your
family	as	well,	through	birth	or	marriage.
Biggest	rewards:	Cancer,	Scorpio,	Pisces
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Aries,	Libra,	Capricorn
Significant	opportunities:	Taurus,	Virgo
Jupiter	in	Cancer	(2000–2050):	July	12,	2001–Aug.	1,	2002;	July	25,	2013–
July	16,	2014;	June	9,	2025–June	29,	2026;	May	23,	2037–June	12,	2038;	Sept.
23–Nov.	12,	2048;	May	5–Sept.	27,	2049

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	LEO	

Like	a	good	yoga	teacher,	Jupiter	pushes	you	to	expand	your	reach,	to	do	more
than	you	thought	you	could,	to	trust.	This	year’s	yoga	lesson	is	about	opening	up
your	creative	Leo	side.	Adulthood	often	means	preoccupation	with	serious
concerns	such	as	making	a	living,	and	it’s	easy	to	overlook	the	value	of	having
fun	and	being	yourself.	It’s	also	risky	to	put	your	heart	on	display	and	chance
rejection.	But	turning	your	back	on	your	playful	side	is	much	more	precarious
than	the	possibility	of	being	rebuffed,	ignored,	or	ridiculed,	because	once	you
stop	engaging	creatively,	you’re	near	enough	to	dead.

While	Jupiter	is	in	Leo,	dust	off	your	dancing	shoes,	tune	your	guitar,	unearth
those	acrylics	from	the	closet,	and	tell	us	your	story.	Engage	in	artistic



expression,	and	share	it	with	someone	you	trust—or	maybe	even	people	you
don’t	know.	Don’t	be	bashful;	not	everyone	will	love	your	efforts,	but	I’ve
always	found	that	as	long	as	you	communicate	truthfully	and	from	the	heart,	you
will	eventually	find	your	audience.

Look	your	best,	be	yourself,	do	your	very	best	work,	and	take	a	bow.	As	you
open	your	arms	and	lift	your	head	high,	I’ll	bet	you’ll	hear	a	round	of	applause.
Biggest	rewards:	Leo,	Sagittarius,	Aries
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Taurus,	Scorpio,	Aquarius
Significant	opportunities:	Gemini,	Libra
Jupiter	in	Leo	(2000–2050):	Aug.	1,	2002–Aug.	27,	2003;	July	16,	2014–Aug.
11,	2015;	June	29,	2026–July	25,	2027;	June	12–Nov.	16,	2038;	Jan.	16–July	7,
2039;	Sept.	27,	2049–Jan.	13,	2050;	May	22–Oct.	18,	2050

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	VIRGO	

In	the	Northern	Hemisphere,	the	Sun	is	in	Virgo	at	harvest	time.	In	a	year	when
Jupiter’s	grace	touches	Virgo’s	harvest	energy,	the	potential	payoff	is	richer	than
it	has	been	in	more	than	a	decade.

Virgo	is	the	sign	of	work	and	health,	but	more	importantly,	it	is	the	sign	of
the	rituals	and	habits	behind	them.	Someone	once	said	that	“work	is	love	made
visible”;	Virgo	is	the	sign	of	craft,	of	precise	and	loving	work,	and	during	this
Jupiter	cycle	you’re	called	to	examine	the	work	you’re	doing.	Have	you
outgrown	your	work?	Have	you	been	thinking	too	small,	when	what	you	have	to
offer	the	world	through	your	work	is	really	very	large?	Or	perhaps	you	planted	a
seed	twelve	years	ago,	when	Jupiter	was	last	in	this	sign,	and	now	it	has	grown
so	strong	and	lush	and	is	bearing	so	much	fruit	that	you’re	ready	to	retire	and
move	on	to	something	else.

While	Jupiter	is	in	Virgo,	enjoy	the	fruits	of	your	labor	and	make	peace	with
the	seeds	that	didn’t	bear	fruit.	Plant	new	crops,	for	you	know	better	now	which
crops	are	right	for	you	and	how	to	cultivate	them.	Love	your	work.	Improve	your
skills.	Enlarge	your	résumé.	Tend	your	fields	with	care,	and	you	can	look
forward	to	a	rich	harvest	the	next	time	Jupiter	is	in	Virgo!
Biggest	rewards:	Virgo,	Capricorn,	Taurus
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Gemini,	Sagittarius,	Pisces
Significant	opportunities:	Cancer,	Scorpio



Jupiter	in	Virgo	(2000–2050):	Aug.	27,	2003–Sept.	24,	2004;	Aug.	11,	2015–
Sept.	9,	2016;	July	25,	2027–Aug.	23,	2028;	Nov.	16,	2038–Jan.	16,	2039;	July
7–Dec.	12,	2039;	Feb.	19–Aug.	5,	2040;	Oct.	18,	2050–Feb.	26,	2051

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	LIBRA	

The	luckiest	planet	in	the	solar	system	transiting	the	sign	of	partnership—what
could	be	better	for	those	looking	for	a	happy,	committed	relationship,	right?

Well,	yes…	but	it’s	not	as	though	a	happy	marriage	is	something	you	stumble
across	at	the	mall,	gift-wrapped	and	ready	to	go.	It’s	something	you	build,	one
day	at	a	time.	It’s	a	relationship	that	helps	you	grow,	and	it’s	a	relationship	that
you	grow	into.

Maybe	you’ll	take	a	leap	of	marital	faith	when	Jupiter	is	in	Libra.	(I	did!)	But
if	you’re	in	a	relationship	that	isn’t	letting	you	explore	and	have	the	adventures
that	you	want	to	have,	maybe	it’s	time	to	leap	off	the	sinking	ship.	Maybe	love
won’t	be	on	the	menu	at	all;	that	doesn’t	mean	you	won’t	grow	through
relationship	this	year.	Your	dearest	friends	and	your	open	rivals	will	provide
plenty	of	opportunities	for	figuring	out	whom	you	want	to	be	in	relationship
with,	what	you	want	from	the	people	closest	to	you,	what	they	want	from	you—
and	how	to	balance	it	all.
Biggest	rewards:	Libra,	Aquarius,	Gemini
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Aries,	Cancer,	Capricorn
Significant	opportunities:	Leo,	Sagittarius
Jupiter	in	Libra	(2000–2050):	Sept.	24,	2004–Oct.	25,	2005;	Sept.	9,	2016–
Oct.	10,	2017;	Aug.	23,	2028–Sept.	23,	2029;	Dec.	12,	2039–Jan.	19,	2040;	Aug.
5,	2040–Jan.	11,	2041

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	SCORPIO	

You	think	you’re	married	after	you	stand	up	in	front	of	a	legally	sanctioned
officiant	and	say	“I	do,”	or	maybe	after	your	wedding	night.	But	I’m	here	to	tell
you,	you’re	not	really	married	until	you’ve	combined	bank	accounts	with
another	person.

Okay,	that’s	an	exaggeration.	Many,	many	couples	maintain	separate	finances
and	consider	themselves	well	and	truly	married,	thank	you.	But	my	larger	point
is:	Unless	you	also	maintain	separate	households,	at	some	point	the	subject	of
shared	property	and	merged	finances	comes	into	play—and	the	way	you	manage
the	dynamics	of	shared	resources	very	much	determines	the	level	of	true
intimacy	and	honesty	in	your	relationship.



intimacy	and	honesty	in	your	relationship.
When	Jupiter	is	in	Scorpio,	the	required	leap	of	faith	takes	us	into	the	heart	of

sharing.	As	a	sign,	Scorpio	has	a	reputation	for	being	suspicious,	even	paranoid,
and	very	secretive.	Well,	how	do	you	feel	when	someone	in	your	life	asks	to
borrow	money	from	you?	Or	your	car,	a	favorite	pair	of	shoes,	or	even	a	book?
How	about	your	most	important	possession:	your	body?

When	Jupiter	is	in	Scorpio,	it	is	time	to	take	a	chance	and	trust	people.	That
doesn’t	mean	you	have	to	be	silly	about	it	and	trust	total	strangers.	It	does	mean,
though,	that	it’s	time	to	reward	the	people	who	have	been	there	for	you,	who	are
loyal	and	honest,	with	a	bigger	piece	of	your	heart.
Biggest	rewards:	Scorpio,	Pisces,	Cancer
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Taurus,	Leo,	Aquarius
Significant	opportunities:	Virgo,	Capricorn
Jupiter	in	Scorpio	(2000–2050):	Oct.	25,	2005–Nov.	23,	2006;	Oct.	10,	2017–
Nov.	8,	2018;	Sept.	23,	2029–Oct.	22,	2030;	Jan.	11,	2041–Feb.	8,	2042;	Apr.
24–Oct.	4,	2042

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	SAGITTARIUS	

Ever	get	in	one	of	those	tedious	conversations	with	someone	who	gives	you	an
interminable	monologue	about	his	pet	subject,	delivered	with	bombast	and	a
bellicose	self-righteousness?

While	transiting	Jupiter	is	in	Sagittarius,	don’t	be	that	guy.	Instead,	learn
more	things.	Go	someplace	new.	For	one	year,	continually	place	yourself	in
situations	where	you	are	not	an	authority,	where	you	may	not	even	speak	the
native	language.

If	you	have	been	timid	about	adventure,	this	year	will	be	a	tremendous	gift	to
you.	New	experiences	are	healthy:	They	keep	you	from	believing	that	you	know
everything.	They	keep	you	from	becoming	that	guy.
Biggest	rewards:	Sagittarius,	Aries,	Leo
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Pisces
Significant	opportunities:	Libra,	Aquarius
Jupiter	in	Sagittarius	(2000–2050):	Nov.	23,	2006–Dec.	18,	2007;	Nov.	8,
2018–Dec.	2,	2019;	Oct.	22,	2030–Nov.	15,	2031;	Feb.	8–Apr.	24,	2042;	Oct.	4,
2042–Mar.	1,	2043;	June	9–Oct.	26,	2043



TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	CAPRICORN	

Jupiter	is	not	at	his	best	in	Capricorn.	His	naturally	exuberant,	expansive	nature
feels	confined	and	oppressed	in	serious	Capricorn.

But	that	doesn’t	have	to	mean	it	won’t	be	a	good	year.	In	fact,	it	can	be	a
fantastic	year…	for	Capricorn	things.	Things	such	as	business,	maturity,
organization,	and	long-range	planning.	If	you	are	considering	opening	or
expanding	your	own	business,	for	instance,	Jupiter	in	Capricorn	is	just	the
investor	you	need.	If	you	are	becoming	a	parent	for	the	first	time,	Jupiter	can
give	you	the	confidence	(and	fantastic	shower	gifts)	to	get	you	started.

If	on	the	other	hand	you	spend	this	year	spinning	your	wheels,	wasting	your
time,	and	hanging	around	waiting	for	everyone	else	to	do	the	heavy	lifting,
Jupiter	in	Capricorn	can	make	things	very	uncomfortable	for	you,	even
humiliating.	So	balance	your	checkbook,	stand	up	straight,	and	make	every
effort	to	improve	your	situation!
Biggest	rewards:	Capricorn,	Taurus,	Virgo
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra
Significant	opportunities:	Scorpio,	Pisces
Jupiter	in	Capricorn	(2000–2050):	Dec.	18,	2007–Jan.	5,	2009;	Dec.	2,	2019–
Dec.	19,	2020;	Nov.	15,	2031–Apr.	11,	2032;	June	26–Nov.	29,	2032;	Mar.	1–
June	9,	2043;	Oct.	26,	2043–Mar.	14,	2044;	Aug.	9–Nov.	4,	2044
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	AQUARIUS	

Even	the	most	gregarious	among	us	have	moments	when	we	feel	we	just	don’t
fit	in.	While	transiting	Jupiter	is	in	Aquarius,	one	of	two	things	will	usually
happen.	One	is	that	you	find	your	people—the	friends	and	groups	with	which
you	feel	you	truly	belong.	The	other	is	that	you	remain	an	outsider	but	learn	to
embrace	that	and	make	it	work	for	you.

Either	way,	you’ll	be	a	happier	human.
Jupiter	in	Aquarius	is	a	year	for	appreciating	others	and	letting	them

appreciate	you.	It	doesn’t	mean	you	have	to	marry	them	or	even	like	them	all
that	much,	just	that	you	grow	in	your	ability	to	appreciate	others	exactly	as	they
are	and	peacefully	coexist.

Put	yourself	in	situations	where	you	are	most	likely	to	encounter	people	who
speak	your	language.	Even	if	you’re	an	extreme	loner,	try	to	find	a	club	or	meet-
up	that	speaks	to	one	of	your	dearest	interests.	This	year,	joy	and	good	breaks
come	from	acknowledging	that,	while	you	are	your	own	person,	there’s	nothing



come	from	acknowledging	that,	while	you	are	your	own	person,	there’s	nothing
wrong	with	being	part	of	society	as	well.
Biggest	rewards:	Aquarius,	Gemini,	Libra
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio
Significant	opportunities:	Sagittarius,	Aries
Jupiter	in	Aquarius	(2000–2050):	Jan.	5,	2009–Jan.	17,	2010;	Dec.	19,	2020–
May	13,	2021;	July	28–Dec.	28,	2021;	Apr.	11–June	26,	2032;	Nov.	29,	2032–
Apr.	14,	2033;	Sept.	12–Dec.	1,	2033;	Mar.	14–Aug.	9,	2044;	Nov.	4,	2044–
Mar.	25,	2045

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	PISCES	

Are	you	judgmental?	Do	you	lack	compassion	for	people	enduring	hardships?
Do	you	find	it	difficult	to	spend	time	around	those	who	are	ill	and	suffering?	Are
you	uncomfortable	around	the	poor	or	members	of	minority	groups?

Here	is	your	opportunity	to	overcome	those	limitations.	While	Jupiter	is	in
Pisces,	experiment	with	acceptance,	forgiveness,	compassion,	and	empathy.	You
don’t	have	to	commit	to	them	for	the	rest	of	your	life.	Just	try	it	for	one	year,	and
like	Dr.	Seuss’s	famous	Grinch,	feel	your	heart	grow	three	sizes.

Here	are	the	guidelines:	(1)	Don’t	judge.	(2)	Go	barefoot	as	much	as	possible.
(3)	Give	money	to	people	on	the	street.	I	know,	they’re	just	gonna	spend	it	on
booze.	Doesn’t	matter.	Do	it.	(4)	Don’t	criticize.	Criticism	is	judgment.	We’re
not	doing	that	this	year.	(5)	Take	naps.	You	cannot	be	mean	when	you’ve	just
woken	from	a	nap.
Biggest	rewards:	Pisces,	Cancer,	Scorpio
Pressure	to	take	risks:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius
Significant	opportunities:	Taurus,	Capricorn
Jupiter	in	Pisces	(2000–2050):	Jan.	17–June	5,	2010;	Sept.	8,	2010–Jan.	22,
2011;	May	13–July	28,	2021;	Dec.	28,	2021–May	10,	2022;	Oct.	27–Dec.	20,
2022;	Apr.	14–Sept.	12,	2033;	Dec.	1,	2033–Apr.	21,	2034;	Mar.	25,	2045–Apr.
4,	2046

TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS	AND
ANGLES
Jupiter	moves	at	the	rate	of	about	1	degree	of	the	zodiac	per	week.	Generally,	his
transits	are	experienced	most	strongly	for	about	three	weeks:	one	week	in



transits	are	experienced	most	strongly	for	about	three	weeks:	one	week	in
advance	of	the	exact	aspect,	the	week	it	is	exact,	and	(to	a	lesser	extent)	the	week
after	the	aspect	is	exact.

Jupiter’s	square,	opposition,	and	quincunx	aspects	to	natal	planets	can	suggest
overconfidence,	excessive	spending,	unwise	risk-taking,	and	overindulgence	in
food	and	drink.	The	same	can	happen	under	Jupiter’s	transiting	conjunctions,
trines,	and	sextiles,	but	usually	with	less	deleterious	results.	Usually	a
harmonious	aspect	from	Jupiter	to	the	natal	chart	is	good	news	indeed,	though
occasionally	it	may	not	look	that	way	at	first.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

These	transits	are	among	the	best	for	putting	yourself	forward,	exploring	your
creativity,	getting	the	attention	you	deserve,	and	generally	having	fun.	Good
opportunities	present	themselves,	sometimes	out	of	nowhere;	on	the	whole,	you
have	more	confidence,	feel	more	popular,	and	are	willing	to	take	risks.	But	be	a
bit	cautious.	Jupiter	in	combination	with	the	Sun	can	be	too	much	of	a	good
thing!	Don’t	become	too	full	of	yourself.	Share	some	of	the	spotlight	with
deserving	others.	Jupiter’s	transits	to	the	Sun	benefit	you	most	in	the	areas	where
your	confidence	and	luck	need	shoring	up;	where	you	are	naturally	blessed,
Jupiter	may	cause	you	to	overdo	it.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

It’s	time	to	pry	open	your	home	and	the	other	private	spaces	in	your	life.	These
are	mainly	favorable	transits,	especially	for	travel,	hosting	houseguests,	and
offering	any	kind	of	educational	or	philosophical	gatherings	in	your	home.	If
you	decide	to	embark	on	home	improvement	projects	now—which	is	quite
possible—be	sure	they	are	truly	needed	and	that	your	budget	is	realistic.	(In	the
digital	age,	you	can	apply	this	advice	to,	say,	building	a	new	website	or	app.)

Jupiter’s	transiting	aspects	to	the	Moon	can	be	overwhelming	if	you	are
private	by	nature	and	enjoy	a	quiet	life.	A	hectic	home	and	daily	life	during	this
transit	usually	means	you	need	some	practice	saying	no.	It’s	tempting	to	imagine
your	life	is	infinitely	expandable,	but	you	have	to	respect	your	limits.	This	transit
brings	more	of	everything	to	your	door—people,	money,	and	new	opportunities
and	experiences.	Whether	you	invite	them	inside	is	entirely	up	to	you.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

To	me,	these	transits	always	seem	to	work	like	an	inverted	funnel:	There	are	so
many	ideas	and	impressions	coming	your	way	that	you	feel	they	can’t	possibly
squeeze	through	the	tiny	aperture	that	leads	to	your	brain!

I	had	this	transit	while	writing	this	book,	and	I	found	that	regular	changes	of
scenery	helped	with	inspiration	and	organizing	my	thoughts.	I	embarked	on	a



scenery	helped	with	inspiration	and	organizing	my	thoughts.	I	embarked	on	a
self-funded	Amtrak	“residency,”	taking	several	daylong	trips	and	writing	on	the
train!	Jupiter	loves	travel	and	welcomes	adventure,	so	just	exposing	yourself	to
something	new	and	inspiring	(such	as	gazing	out	at	the	Pacific	Ocean	while	you
work)	can	open	up	your	mind	and	get	it	firing	on	all	cylinders.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

These	transits	are	designed	to	yield	more	of	the	things	that	bring	you	pleasure
and	satisfaction.	Initially,	your	attention	will	likely	be	called	to	things	you’re
lacking	or	the	ways	that	you’re	not	enjoying	what	you	already	have.	During	this
transit,	you	can	remedy	that.	But	as	always	with	Jupiter,	it’s	important	to
determine	how	much	of	a	good	thing	is	too	much.	Venus	symbolizes	what	we
enjoy,	but	not	necessarily	what	we	need.	There	is	a	difference.	Anyone	who	has
left	a	mall	with	both	hands	full	of	shopping	bags	and	a	maxed-out	credit	card
knows	the	sinking	sensation	of	buyer’s	remorse!	While	transiting	Jupiter	aspects
Venus,	learn	to	appreciate	what	actually	makes	you	feel	good	and	happy;	it	is
usually	a	balance	between	having	some	of	what	you	want	without	sacrificing	too
much	money,	space,	or	peace	of	mind	in	the	process.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

Even	if	you’re	not	competitive	by	nature,	this	transit	will	probably	awaken	your
desire	to	conquer!	Confidence,	physical	vitality,	and	initiative	are	at	a	peak,	and
you	can	make	great	strides	toward	specific	goals.	This	can	be	an	excellent	time
to	initiate	a	serious	exercise	program	or	get	involved	in	sports,	because	you’re
willing	to	push	yourself	to	become	stronger,	faster,	and	as	full	of	oats	as	a
racehorse.	When	Jupiter	and	Mars	are	through	with	you,	simply	moving	your
body	will	feel	glorious.	Just	be	careful	not	to	push	too	far,	too	fast.

Jupiter’s	tendency	toward	exaggeration	can	cause	problems	during	these
transits,	particularly	if	you	have	trouble	managing	anger	and	frustration.	The
tendency	will	be	to	blow	slights	out	of	proportion.	Though	it’s	fine	to	assert
yourself	and	go	after	what	you	want,	don’t	lose	sight	of	the	importance	of	good
sportsmanship	and	generosity	toward	others.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

You	have	reached	an	important	point	in	Jupiter’s	cycle	of	growth	and	learning.	If
it’s	a	conjunction,	you	are	having	a	Jupiter	return	and	beginning	a	new	twelve-
year	cycle.	The	trines	and	sextiles	support	your	natural	disposition	and	beliefs
around	travel,	religion,	and	education;	the	squares	and	opposition	are	moments
when,	through	conflict,	you	see	another	point	of	view.	(See	“Using	Jupiter’s



Cycle”	on	page	38	for	more	about	these	aspects.)
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

Challenging	and	flowing	aspects	alike	allow	Jupiter’s	optimism	and	joy	to
lighten	the	weight	of	Saturn’s	responsibility	and	tendency	to	worry.	In	some
cases,	this	begins	by	exaggerating	Saturn’s	misery	until	we	realize	how
ridiculous	that	is	and	ease	up	on	ourselves.

These	can	be	tremendously	inspiring	transits	for	career	success,	coaxing	you
to	venture	out	of	your	carefully	delineated	professional	path	to	look	for	other
opportunities.	If	you	have	been	setting	the	bar	too	low	for	yourself,	Jupiter	will
encourage	you	to	push	for	bigger	things.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

Imagine	you	are	in	prison,	armed	with	a	bomb	that	could	help	you	break	out,	but
without	a	match	to	light	the	fuse.	Uranus	is	the	bomb,	and	Jupiter	is	more	than
happy	to	provide	the	match.	At	this	time,	there	may	be	a	dramatic	break	with	a
job,	relationship,	or	living	situation.	Ultimately,	it’s	probably	for	the	best,	but
Jupiter	isn’t	particularly	careful	about	looking	before	it	convinces	you	to	leap.

Both	Jupiter	and	Uranus	are	extremely	fond	of	freedom.	Jupiter	hates	limits,
and	Uranus	loathes	the	status	quo.	When	the	two	come	together	in	your	chart,
they	hold	the	keys	to	unlock	nearly	any	door.	Just	be	sure	that	when	you	walk
through	the	door	you	choose	to	open,	you’re	moving	toward	something	better,
and	not	just	away	from	something	oppressive.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

It’s	time	to	face	your	fears.	All	the	secrets	and	disappointments	that	you	strive	to
hide	away	are	brought	out	into	the	open,	and	Jupiter	will	help	you	make	friends
with,	heal,	and	generally	overcome	them.

Your	fears	are	potentially	your	greatest	source	of	strength,	and	as	transiting
Jupiter	touches	Neptune	by	any	aspect,	you	come	closer	to	claiming	that
strength.	You	may	feel	as	though	you	have	been	thrown	into	the	ocean	without
knowing	whether	you	can	swim.	Paddle	too	hard,	and	you’ll	go	under.	Now	is
the	time	to	stop	struggling	and	float	a	little.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

You	may	naturally	be	a	person	of	great	purpose,	focus,	and	determination.	If
you’re	not,	though,	you	may	be	a	little	shocked	by	just	how	formidable	you
become	during	these	transits.	The	combination	of	Jupiter’s	strong	beliefs	and
Pluto’s	ruthless	determination	makes	this	an	excellent	time	for	marshaling	your
forces	and	accomplishing	amazing	things.



forces	and	accomplishing	amazing	things.
Be	warned:	Pluto’s	determination	can	be	a	mixed	blessing.	You	may	get	what

you	wanted	and	come	to	regret	it.	The	combination	of	Jupiter	and	Pluto	can	also
make	for	overzealousness	bordering	on	fanaticism.	If	you	find	yourself	believing
that	your	point	of	view	is	the	only	one	that	could	possibly	be	right,	you’re	likely
wandering	into	dangerous	territory.	Take	care	to	be	a	wise	steward	of	your
power	without	becoming	overly	attached	to	it;	there	are	always	other	ways	of
seeing	the	world,	and	believe	it	or	not,	they	might	be	just	as	valid	as	yours.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	LUNAR	NODES

A	couple	years	ago,	on	the	day	transiting	Jupiter	made	an	aspect	to	my	natal
Lunar	Nodes,	I	was	enjoying	a	fabulous	anniversary	dinner	with	my	husband	in
New	Orleans.	A	few	days	earlier,	I’d	presented	my	first	lecture	for	a	large	and
influential	astrology	conference.	I	was	with	my	favorite	person	in	a	fabulous	city
I’d	always	wanted	to	visit	and	had	just	reached	a	significant	career	milestone.
Add	the	three	desserts	we	shared	after	dinner,	and	it	was	pretty	much	a	peak
experience.

A	lot	of	transits	are	difficult,	and	even	Jupiter’s	transits	aren’t	always	a
cakewalk.	But	transiting	Jupiter’s	aspects	to	your	natal	Nodes	are	the	closest
thing	astrology	has	to	a	sure	bet.	So	pause	for	a	moment.	Welcome	what	comes
your	way.	Appreciate	these	little	messages	of	hope	that	say	you’re	moving	in	the
right	direction,	and	let	your	heart	cry	out,	“More,	please!”
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	ASCENDANT

These	transits	can	be	a	little	overwhelming;	you	may	feel	as	if	you’re	walking
out	of	a	dark	movie	theater	into	bright,	blinding	sunlight.	Too	much	freedom	and
change	at	one	time	can	be	disorienting.

Jupiter	wants	to	take	you	on	an	adventure.	You	may	well	move,	perhaps	even
someplace	far	away	(particularly	if	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	is	making	an
aspect	to	your	Ascendant	at	the	same	time).	Always,	transiting	aspects	to	the
Ascendant	call	for	reinvention.	It’s	time	for	a	fresh	start	in	a	new	place,	and	a
chance	to	be	a	new	and	hopefully	happier	self.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MIDHEAVEN

Regardless	of	the	aspect,	this	transit	ushers	you	to	the	winner’s	circle.	It	is	time
to	claim	the	career	opportunities	and	accolades	that	have	long	eluded	you.	Your
reputation	is	enhanced;	it’s	like	being	invited	to	the	court	of	Henry	VIII	and
making	a	big	splash.	But	remember:	Anne	Boleyn	made	a	big	splash	at	King
Henry’s	court	and	ended	up	without	her	head.	Don’t	lose	yours	by	overreaching
and	grabbing	for	too	much	during	this	transit.



chapter	4
TRANSITS	OF	SATURN:	THE	ABILITY	TO
RESPOND

Planetary	Dossier:	SATURN

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	29.5	years
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	2.5	years
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	approximately	6	weeks
STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Capricorn,	Aquarius,	Libra
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Cancer,	Leo,	Aries
KEYWORDS:	maturity,	wisdom,	discipline,	work,	authority,	mastery,	limits	and	boundaries

S he	was	an	African	American	girl	born	to	an	unmarried	teenage	mother	in	the
mid-1950s,	in	impoverished,	rural	Mississippi.	A	survivor	of	childhood
sexual	abuse,	she	gave	birth	at	the	age	of	fourteen	to	a	baby	who	died

several	days	later.	She	was	fired	from	her	first	television	reporting	job	because
her	boss	declared	she	was	“not	suitable	for	television.”

Just	before	her	Saturn	return,	Oprah	Winfrey	landed	her	own	morning	talk
show.	By	the	age	of	thirty-two,	she	was	a	millionaire.	By	the	time	Saturn
transited	her	Midheaven	and	she	retired	from	The	Oprah	Winfrey	Show,	she	had
a	net	worth	of	$2.9	billion,	owns	her	own	cable	network,	and	is	regularly	cited	as
one	of	the	world’s	most	influential	women.

Born	with	the	Sun	in	a	close	aspect	to	Saturn,	Oprah	Winfrey	is	the	model	of
a	self-made	woman.	Her	tenacity,	hunger	to	succeed,	and	determination	to
overcome	adversity	are	all	hallmarks	of	a	successful	response	to	Saturn.	Because
she	was	not	hardwired	to	expect	life	to	be	easy,	she	works	hard.	And	when
Saturn’s	transits	push	her	into	challenging	situations,	she	pushes	back.	That’s	the
key	to	earning	Saturn’s	respect.

THE	NATURE	OF	THE	BEAST
The	beginning	of	a	Saturn	transit	is	a	bit	like	living	in	a	cloudy,	rainy	place



The	beginning	of	a	Saturn	transit	is	a	bit	like	living	in	a	cloudy,	rainy	place
where	the	sun	never	shines.	You	know	Saturn	is	overhauling	you	when	find
yourself	waking	up	tired	every	single	day,	when	nothing	excites	you,	when
everything	feels	difficult	and	takes	too	much	effort.

But	assuming	the	universe	is	a	benevolent	place,	you	can	bet	that	tenderness
lies	beneath	this	tough	Saturnine	surface.	What	does	Saturn	want	from	you?	He
wants	work	and	maturity,	diligence	and	responsibility;	he	wants	to	see	you
behind	the	wheel	of	your	own	life,	eyes	on	the	road,	foot	on	the	accelerator.	And
he	wants	you	to	consult	a	GPS	before	ever	hitting	the	road.	In	other	words,	he
wants	your	life	to	have	a	plan,	and	he	wants	it	to	be	a	plan	you	came	up	with
yourself.	(Eyes	on	your	own	paper,	missy!)

I	won’t	lie	to	you:	Saturn’s	transits	can	bring	frustration,	deprivation,	and
loneliness.	However,	they	are	a	means	to	an	end,	not	the	end	itself.	Saturn	has	no
interest	in	abandoning	you	in	a	pit	of	despair.	Rather,	these	transits	teach	you
what	you’re	made	of	and	force	you	to	create	a	life	that	is	more	nurturing	and
supportive	of	the	real	you.

Suffering	through	hardships	doesn’t	feel	good.	It	hurts—and	it	is	supposed	to
hurt!	There	is	a	reason	for	it,	just	as	there	is	a	reason	the	physical	body	feels
pain:	to	alert	you	that	something	is	endangering	your	well-being,	that	something
isn’t	right,	so	that	you	can	avoid	or	fix	it.	So	it	is	with	your	heart	and	your	spirit:
If	you	hurt,	it’s	because	you	are	supposed	to	hurt	when	your	life	is	moving	in	the
wrong	direction.

USING	SATURN’S	CYCLE
You	inherited	many	circumstances	when	you	came	into	the	world:	a	particular
set	of	parents;	a	socioeconomic	status;	a	world	in	war,	peace,	prosperity,	or
poverty;	a	genetic	predisposition	to	particular	diseases	or	weaknesses;	innate
talents.

These	elements	comprise	a	structure	that	you	inhabit	before	you’re	old
enough	to	realize	that	they	don’t	represent	the	totality	of	human	experience.	The
external	structures	impose	themselves	onto	your	insides	as	well,	building	mazes
of	entitlement,	limitation,	and	expectation	that	perfectly	mirror	what’s	on	the
outside.	You	came	into	the	world	as	molten	goo	in	search	of	a	form.	As	child
development	experts	like	to	say,	children	need	structure.	At	some	level,	they	are
grateful	for	even	the	most	dysfunctional	forms	and	structures	of	their	early	lives,
and	look	to	those	structures	for	a	sense	of	who	they	are	and	what	is	possible	for
them.

Life	is	one	long	process	of	unmolding	yourself	from	these	earliest	forms.	Like
a	cake	liberated	from	a	pan,	you	are	made	in	a	particular	shape,	of	particular



a	cake	liberated	from	a	pan,	you	are	made	in	a	particular	shape,	of	particular
ingredients—but	a	lot	can	still	be	done	to	alter	the	flavor,	configuration,	and
presentation.	A	cake	can	be	frosted	and	decorated,	cut	into	shapes,	served	on
lovely	plates,	or	eaten	right	out	of	the	refrigerator	as	a	midnight	snack.	We	are
cakes	made	of	particular	stuff,	all	right,	but	our	lives	are	a	process	of	creating
interesting	shapes	and	forms,	and	flavorful	offerings,	from	our	basic	makeup.

Each	time	Saturn	in	the	sky	hits	a	degree	of	the	zodiac	that	resonates	with
your	birth	chart,	you	become	dissatisfied	with	the	shape	of	your	life.	It	seems	to
need	something—perhaps	a	new	layer,	or	a	different	frosting.	How	you	respond
to	this	dissatisfaction,	this	challenge,	highly	depends	on	how	you	were	taught	to
respond.	Are	you	fearful,	resistant,	angry,	or	excited	to	get	to	work?
THE	SATURN	RETURN
Ages	29,	58,	87
The	Saturn	return	occurs	when	this	planet	symbolizing	maturity,	responsibility,
career,	and	limitations	comes	back	to	its	position	in	your	birth	chart.	This	huge
event—which	happens	only	every	twenty-nine	years—is	a	time	to	stand	back
and	take	a	cold,	hard	look	at	your	life.	Are	you	happy	with	your	career?	Do	you
have	a	sense	that	life	is	moving	in	the	right	direction?	Do	you	feel	like	a	grown-
up?	When	Saturn	returns	to	its	natal	position,	you	become	uncomfortably	aware
that	you	are	mortal.	Life	has	an	expiration	date.	A	panic	sets	in.	Is	it	too	late	to
do	the	things	you	want	to	do?

At	the	initial	Saturn	return,	you	realize	for	the	first	time	that	it	is	already	too
late	for	some	things.	“Olympic	gymnast”	or	“child	prodigy”	are	roads	that	are
firmly	closed	to	you.	But	really,	the	first	Saturn	return	is	a	wake-up	call	that
comes	just	as	you’re	entering	your	prime—when	it’s	still	early	enough	in	the
game	to	change	course,	even	if	you	do	have	to	adjust	some	of	your	expectations.

At	the	second	Saturn	return,	around	the	age	of	fifty-eight	or	fifty-nine,	begins
the	transition	into	what	is	traditionally	considered	“retirement.”	This	doesn’t
mean	that	no	work	will	be	done;	it	doesn’t	take	long	to	turn	up	examples	of
exalted	figures	who	produced	their	finest	work	later	in	life.	What	it	does	mean	is
that	your	most	important	role	becomes	that	of	teacher,	of	tribal	elder.	In	modern
America,	unlike	in	other	cultures	that	revere	elders	as	keepers	of	wisdom,	this
role	is	not	well	defined	and	is	even	less	respected.

You	must	find	a	way	to	make	the	transition	to	elder	a	graceful	and
meaningful	one.	It’s	tempting	at	midlife	to	feel	sad	about	what	we	haven’t
accomplished,	and	hard	to	accept	that	we	may	never	reach	the	heights	of	our
profession.	But	none	of	us	reaches	our	fifties	without	having	learned	an
enormous	amount.	The	key	to	a	happy	second	half	of	life	is	a	balance	between
learning	new	things	and	sharing	what	we’ve	already	mastered.	And	so	the	whole



learning	new	things	and	sharing	what	we’ve	already	mastered.	And	so	the	whole
concept	of	career	becomes	much	different	in	your	midfifties	than	it	was	ten	years
earlier.	The	focus	is	less	toward	striving	and	more	toward	sharing.
THE	OPENING	SATURN	SQUARE
Ages	7,	35,	63,	91
These	are	the	ages	of	reason,	when	awareness	of	responsibility,	maturity,	and
mortality	comes	into	clearer	focus,	catalyzed	by	some	external	event.	Life
pushes	you,	and	you	have	to	push	back,	hard,	to	open	the	door	to	the	next
chapter.	Achieving	something	in	particular	is	not	the	point;	simply	making	a
serious	effort	to	move	forward	is	enough	to	satisfy	Saturn.
THE	SATURN	OPPOSITION
Ages	14,	42,	70,	98
All	is	clear;	at	the	top	of	the	mountain,	you	can	see	for	a	hundred	miles.	When
transiting	Saturn	is	opposed	your	natal	Saturn	position,	you	have	come	to	the
halfway	point	in	the	cycle	of	maturity.	You	can	see	where	you	started	out,	and	in
the	distance	you	can	pinpoint	where	you	will	end	up	if	you	continue	along	your
path.	This	is	the	moment	to	weigh	your	options:	Is	it	time	to	correct	your	course?
THE	CLOSING	SATURN	SQUARE
Ages	21,	50,	78
The	first	closing	Saturn	square	at	age	twenty-one	dovetails	with	the	first
transiting	Uranus	square,	so	this	is	an	age	marked	by	tremendous	tension
between	fitting	into	society	and	the	urge	to	rebel	against	everything	you’ve
known.	The	second	closing	Saturn	square	at	age	fifty	can	bring	a	pinnacle	of
career	achievement	if	you’ve	been	working	hard	toward	a	particular	goal,	but	of
course	you’re	also	beginning	to	feel	your	age.	At	the	third	Saturn	square,	you
can	review	your	career,	consider	your	legacy,	and	mentor	others	to	continue	your
work.

TRANSITING	SATURN	BY	SIGN
Saturn	does	not	want	to	hear	excuses.	All	that	matters	is	results.	Saturn’s	sign	is
not	just	about	style	but	also	about	the	nature	of	the	work	assigned	to	us.

The	first	step	in	handling	Saturn’s	sojourn	through	any	sign	is	not	to	panic,
but	to	take	stock.	Figure	out	what	structures	of	your	life	have	been	neglected	and
draft	a	plan	for	shoring	them	up.	It	doesn’t	have	to	happen	overnight.	Saturn
simply	asks	that	we	acknowledge	responsibility—determine	the	ways	we	are
able	to	respond	to	a	situation—and	then	do	what	we	can	to	improve.



TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ARIES	

Some	people	blame	others	for	their	failures	and	misfortunes—and	then	there	are
those	who	are	successful.

When	Saturn	is	moving	through	Aries,	it	is	tempting	to	be	the	first	kind	of
person.	We	can	enumerate	chapter	and	verse	of	the	ways	other	people	and	cruel
circumstance	are	holding	us	back.	If	only	I	were	better	looking,	born	to	a	rich
family,	had	married	my	high	school	sweetheart.	If	only	people	treated	me	fairly
instead	of	giving	everything	to	somebody	else.	If	only,	if	only,	if	only…

The	real	“if	only”	goes	something	like	this:	If	only	I	had	the	courage	to	go
after	what	I	want.	If	only	I	had	the	gumption	to	keep	trying	every	time	I	fail.	If
only	I	treated	other	people	as	well	as	I	expect	to	be	treated,	and	I	worked	hard	to
earn	the	breaks	I	feel	that	I	deserve.

When	Saturn	is	in	Aries,	we	are	charged	with	accepting	total	personal
responsibility	for	our	lives.	Saturn	will	not	accept	excuses,	complaints,	or	blame.
You	are	the	author	of	your	life,	so	write	it	the	way	you	want	to,	and	then	turn	the
book	into	the	movie	you	want	to	live	in.
Most	challenging	for:	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn
Earned	rewards	for:	Leo,	Sagittarius
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Gemini,	Aquarius
Saturn	in	Aries	(1950–2050):	Mar.	1967–Apr.	1969;	Apr.	1996–Mar.	1999;
May	2025–Apr.	2028

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	TAURUS	

How	is	your	relationship	with	the	physical	world?	Are	you	treating	your
possessions	with	care	and	respect?	How	about	your	money?	Your	body?

While	Saturn	transited	Aries,	survival	was	the	order	of	the	day.	As	Saturn
enters	Taurus,	all	appears	to	be	in	a	hopeless	state	of	entropy.	Taurus’s	season,
regardless	of	the	planet	transiting	there,	is	devoted	to	strengthening	your
position.	While	Saturn	is	here,	you’ll	need	to	work	hard	to	make	sure	you’ve	got
everything	you	need	and	that	it’s	all	in	good,	working	order.

If	you	have	been	lazy	about	organizing	your	house,	balancing	your
checkbook,	getting	exercise,	or	having	your	car	serviced	regularly,	Saturn	will
get	a	bit	harsh	with	you.	Establish	new	goals	and	routines	devoted	to	getting
your	life	in	order	so	it	can	support	you	on	the	road	ahead.



Most	challenging	for:	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius
Earned	rewards	for:	Virgo,	Capricorn
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Cancer,	Pisces
Saturn	in	Taurus	(1950–2050):	Apr.	1969–Feb.	1972;	June	1998–Apr.	2001;
Apr.	2028–June	2030

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	GEMINI	

Impeccability	is	Saturn’s	defining	trait.	It	is	the	stern	inner	taskmaster	that	insists
we	can	do	better,	be	better.	Like	your	favorite	teacher	from	school,	Saturn
expects	great	things	from	you.	And	while	Saturn	transits	through	Gemini,	you
are	expected	to	master	Gemini	matters—communication,	learning	new	things,
and	building	social	networks.	Should	you	refuse	to	apply	yourself	to	these
things,	Saturn	will	not	hesitate	to	rap	your	knuckles	with	a	ruler	and	keep	you
after	school	for	two	years	of	detention.

Saturn	in	Gemini	reminds	us	to	honor	and	respect	purely	Gemini	processes
and	skills	by	doing	our	best	to	respond	to	them	with	integrity.	But	don’t	imagine
you	need	to	spend	the	next	two	years	tediously	crossing	t’s	and	dotting	i’s.	Go
ahead—be	sociable,	be	a	terrific	conversationalist,	communicate!	But	do	your
research	so	you	can	ask	the	right	questions.

Be	Saturn-impeccable	in	your	word	while	employing	Gemini’s	gift	of	tact.
Return	phone	calls	and	emails	promptly,	and	be	scrupulous	about	sending	thank-
you	cards	and	acknowledging	birthdays.	Keep	good	to-do	lists,	and	actually	do
the	things	on	them.	Perform	routine	maintenance	on	your	car.	Be	a	good
neighbor	and	sibling.	Ask	the	older	people	in	your	life	to	tell	you	their	stories;
they’ve	been	waiting	a	long	time	to	be	asked.	Go	back	to	school	and	learn
something	new.	Two	years	is	plenty	of	time	to	accomplish	good	work—but	a
long	time	to	spend	in	detention!
Most	challenging	for:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces
Earned	rewards	for:	Libra,	Aquarius
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Aries,	Leo
Saturn	in	Gemini	(1950–2050):	June	1971–Apr.	1974;	Aug.	2000–June	2003;
June	2030–July	2032

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	CANCER	

When	Saturn	transits	through	Cancer,	you	are	likely	to	feel	overwhelmed	by



When	Saturn	transits	through	Cancer,	you	are	likely	to	feel	overwhelmed	by
Cancerian	responsibilities	for	your	home	and	family,	and	by	your	need	for
security.	That	feeling	of	crushing	weight	is	a	natural	consequence	of	awakening
to	the	enormous	responsibility	we	bear	for	these	things.

The	impulse	is	to	furiously	create	vessels	in	which	to	save	every	drop	of
security	against	the	lean	and	dry	times.	The	temptation	is	strong	to	delegate
responsibility	for	your	well-being	to	someone	else.	But	Saturn	never	approves	of
delegating	responsibility.	It’s	up	to	you	to	protect	yourself	and	the	ones	you
love.

But	don’t	overdo	it.	Security	is	important,	but	so	are	freedom	and	breathing
room.	Beware	of	smothering	your	loved	ones	in	your	desire	to	protect	them.
Most	challenging	for:	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries
Earned	rewards	for:	Scorpio,	Pisces
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Taurus,	Virgo
Saturn	in	Cancer	(1950–2050):	Aug.	1973–June	1976;	June	2003–July	2005;
July	2032–May	2035

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	LEO	

When	Saturn	transits	through	Leo,	it’s	time	to	come	to	terms	with	the	reality	of
aging	and	mortality.	Abruptly,	the	Leo	party	of	self-celebration	and
preoccupation	with	the	good	life	is	over:	The	aging	playboy	finds	he	is	no	longer
attractive	to	the	youngest,	most	desirable	women;	the	spendthrift	with	a	closet
full	of	shoes	realizes	she’s	bankrupt.

Those	who	don’t	respond	well	to	Saturn’s	challenge	become	tyrannical
children,	waving	their	arms	and	hollering	in	impotent	fury.	This	is	a	tough	transit
for	leaders.	Gaining	a	prominent	position	requires	an	enormous	ego,	and	such
egos	are	not	happy	about	being	put	aside	for	the	general	good.	It’s	not	easy	for
artists,	either,	since	Leo	is	the	sign	most	associated	with	creative	self-expression.
Saturn	in	Leo	insists	that	we	express	ourselves	creatively	despite	indifference,
criticism,	and	obstacles.

The	biggest	challenge	of	this	transit	is	to	figure	out	how	to	be	truly	yourself,
respect	what	you	are,	and	let	yourself	age	gracefully.	Those	who	seem	at	ease
with	themselves	and	who	laugh	effortlessly	are	the	ones	succeeding.
Most	challenging	for:	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus
Earned	rewards	for:	Aries,	Sagittarius



Advancement	opportunities	for:	Gemini,	Libra
Saturn	in	Leo	(1950–2050):	Sept.	1975–July	1978;	July	2005–Sept.	2007;	Aug.
2034–Oct.	2036

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	VIRGO	

Like	a	good	editor,	Virgo	takes	the	wild,	heartfelt	creative	urges	of	Leo	and
cleans	up	the	grammar	and	punctuation.	If	Leo	is	about	letting	it	all	hang	out,
Virgo’s	job	is	to	rein	you	in	and	tighten	things	up.

Saturn	is	the	world’s	toughest	boss,	and	his	tutelage	and	discipline	can	be
truly	miserable	to	endure.	Place	Saturn	in	a	sign	such	as	Virgo—already	inclined
to	overdo	it	in	attempting	to	make	things	better—and	you	have	a	recipe	for	a
demanding	transit.

So	take	it	easy	on	yourself.	You	will	not	become	perfect	in	two	and	a	half
years—or	ever.	The	goal	of	Saturn	in	Virgo	is	to	teach	you	to	recognize	and
move	in	the	direction	of	quality.	Forgive	yourself	when	you	fall	short	of	your
standards,	but	don’t	lower	those	standards.	All	the	attention	to	detail	seems
trivial,	but	it’s	moving	you	in	the	direction	of	greatness.
Most	challenging	for:	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini
Earned	rewards	for:	Taurus,	Capricorn
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Cancer,	Scorpio
Saturn	in	Virgo	(1950–2050):	Sept.	1948–Aug.	1951;	Nov.	1977–Sept.	1980;
Sept.	2007–July	2010;	Oct.	2036–Sept.	2039

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	LIBRA	

Libra	is	the	sign	in	which	Saturn	is	thought	to	be	“exalted”—that	is,	he	does
some	of	his	best	work	here.	Libra	is	the	sign	of	fairness,	balance,	and
collaboration.	Saturn’s	transit	through	Libra	illustrates	what’s	fair	and	what’s
not,	where	your	life	is	out	of	balance,	and	everything	that’s	wrong	with	your
closest	relationships.

Libra	brings	out	the	best	in	worldly	Saturn,	contesting	single-minded
ambition	with	the	question,	What	good	are	achievements	if	you	have	no	one	to
share	them	with	you?	Even	when	it’s	been	pointed	out	to	you	that	your
ambitions	are	having	a	bad	impact	on	your	relationships,	or	that	your
inflexibility	is	making	you	old	before	your	time,	it	can	be	hard	to	correct	course.

What’s	needed	to	check	these	tendencies	are	the	strong	and	dissenting	voices
of	those	who	know	us	best—whether	because	they	love	us,	or	because	they’ve



of	those	who	know	us	best—whether	because	they	love	us,	or	because	they’ve
traveled	the	same	road.	Marriages	and	business	partnerships,	in	particular,	must
either	be	reinforced	or,	like	an	old	building,	“brought	up	to	code,”	lest	they
crumble	completely.
Most	challenging	for:	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer
Earned	rewards	for:	Gemini,	Aquarius
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Leo,	Sagittarius
Saturn	in	Libra	(1950–2050):	Nov.	1950–Oct.	1953;	Sept.	1980–Aug.	1983;
Oct.	2009–Oct.	2012;	Sept.	2039–July	2042

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	SCORPIO	

The	good	news	is	that	Saturn	in	Scorpio	encourages	us	to	form	intimate,	sharing,
and	supportive	relationships;	to	trust	our	own	judgment;	and	to	learn	to	let	others
give	to	us.	The	bad	news	is,	Saturn’s	particular	form	of	encouragement	tends	to
be	a	little	rough.	“Just	how	badly	do	you	want	to	form	intimate,	sharing,	and
supportive	relationships?”	he	asks.	“Let’s	throw	every	possible	impediment	in
your	path	and	see	whether	you	still	want	those	relationships.”	Or	the	ever
popular,	“How’s	about	you	make	a	real	whopper	of	a	bad	decision—trust
somebody	you	really	shouldn’t—and	see	whether	you’re	still	able	to	trust	your
own	judgment?”

When	outer	planets	transit	Scorpio,	stuff	gets	real.	There’s	no	use	sugar-
coating	it.	But	each	sign	has	its	blessings	as	well	as	its	curse,	and	Scorpio
bestows	the	kind	of	strength	that	comes	from	knowing	the	truth—about
ourselves,	about	others,	and	about	the	way	the	world	works.	From	there,	we’ll
eventually	move	forward	into	Saturn	in	Sagittarius	and	construct	a	belief	system
that	helps	put	it	all	in	a	larger	perspective.

One	thing	that	Saturn’s	passage	through	Scorpio	throws	into	bold	relief	is	the
value	of	having	supportive	friends	and	loved	ones,	and	of	learning	to	accept	their
support	with	grace	and	humility	when	it’s	needed.	Saturn	in	Libra	showed	you
who	your	friends	are	and	gave	you	a	good	look	at	your	enemies	as	well.	Now	it’s
time	to	trust	those	friends,	and	to	heed	the	little	voice	inside	that	tells	you	to	flee
when	you	see	Godzilla	stomping	toward	your	heart.
Most	challenging	for:	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo
Earned	rewards	for:	Cancer,	Pisces
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Virgo,	Capricorn



Saturn	in	Scorpio	(1950–2050):	Oct.	1953–Oct.	1956;	Nov.	1982–Nov.	1985;
Oct.	2012–Sept.	2015;	Nov.	2041–Oct.	2044

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	SAGITTARIUS	

What	do	you	know,	and	how	do	you	know	it?	When	Saturn	transits	Sagittarius,
the	pressure	is	enormous	to	know	things,	to	have	opinions,	and	if	possible,	to
legislate	your	opinions	to	become	the	law	of	the	land.	Usually	public	opinion
skews	very	conservative	when	Saturn	transits	Sagittarius—for	example,	the
transits	of	the	late	1950s	and	late	1980s	were	among	the	most	conservative	in
American	culture	and	politics.	These	can	be	times	when	those	with	strong
opinions	dominate	the	media,	making	convictions	seem	obnoxious.

But	don’t	let	that	dissuade	you	from	owning	your	beliefs.	While	Saturn	toured
Scorpio,	you	got	a	behind-the-scenes	look	at	human	nature,	and	a	lot	of	it	wasn’t
pretty.	But	it	also	put	you	in	a	much	stronger	position	to	determine	for	yourself
what	you	believe	and	what	you	stand	for.	While	Saturn	transits	Sagittarius,	draft
your	very	own	code	of	ethics	to	subscribe	to.	Remember	that	you’re	human	and
fallible:	You	will	occasionally	fall	short	of	your	standards.

I	remember	reading	that	Navajo	weavers	deliberately	work	tiny	imperfections
called	spirit	lines	into	their	designs.	Among	other	explanations,	it’s	said	that	the
spirit	line	allows	the	weaver’s	spirit	to	escape	the	rug,	so	any	negative	emotions
she	might	have	been	feeling	during	her	work	will	not	be	passed	on	to	the	owner.
Likewise,	while	Saturn	is	in	Sagittarius,	weave	a	beautiful	tapestry	of	beliefs—
but	include	an	escape	valve	for	imperfection.
Most	challenging	for:	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo
Earned	rewards	for:	Aries,	Leo
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Libra,	Aquarius
Saturn	in	Sagittarius	(1950–2050):	Jan.	1956–Jan.	1959;	Nov.	1985–Nov.
1988;	Dec.	2014–Dec.	2017;	Feb.	2044–Oct.	2047

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	CAPRICORN	

Saturn	is	at	his	most	powerful	in	Capricorn,	so	during	these	transits	he	flexes	his
muscles	and	holds	nothing	back	in	his	quest	for	world	domination.	Many	of	us
begin	Saturn	in	Capricorn	transits	feeling	like	failures	and	unable	to	own	our
lives.	To	transcend	your	misguided	notions	of	inadequacy,	take	your	cue	from
Capricorn’s	totem	animal,	the	goat.	He	scales	unlikely	peaks	slowly,
deliberately,	putting	one	hoof	steadfastly	in	front	of	the	other.	It	looks	as	though
he	isn’t	getting	anywhere,	but	by	minding	his	own	business	and	refusing	to	give



he	isn’t	getting	anywhere,	but	by	minding	his	own	business	and	refusing	to	give
up,	he	eventually	reaches	the	summit.	Keep	trudging	along,	step	by	step,	and	by
the	time	Saturn	leaves	his	home	turf	you	could	have	an	entirely	new	career—or
simply	a	higher	status	and	more	respect	in	your	existing	one.
Most	challenging	for:	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra
Earned	rewards	for:	Taurus,	Virgo
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Scorpio,	Pisces
Saturn	in	Capricorn	(1950–2050):	Jan.	1959–Jan.	1962;	Nov.	1988–Feb.	1991;
Dec.	2017–Dec.	2020;	Jan.	2047–Jan.	2050
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	AQUARIUS	

Before	the	discovery	of	Uranus,	Saturn	was	considered	the	ruling	planet	of
Aquarius.	In	fact,	many	astrologers	still	consider	this	to	be	so.	So	we	can	assume
that	Saturn	is	very	strong	in	Aquarius,	almost	as	much	as	in	Capricorn.

Aquarius’s	goals,	however,	extend	beyond	earthly	achievements.	You	may
work	hard	to	build	a	career	during	this	transit,	but	more	important,	you	are
building	a	legacy.	Change	is	in	the	air,	but	some	of	it	is	superficial—new
window	dressing	to	disguise	old	ideas.	To	get	through	this	transit	successfully,
challenge	not	just	society’s	rules	but	also	your	own.
Most	challenging	for:	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio
Earned	rewards	for:	Gemini,	Libra
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Aries,	Sagittarius
Saturn	in	Aquarius	(1950–2050):	Jan.	1962–Dec.	1964;	Feb.	1991–Jan.	1994;
Mar.	2020–Mar.	2023;	Jan.	2050–Jan.	2053

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	PISCES	

Remember	when	you	were	a	kid	and	your	mother	overheard	you	saying
something	nasty	about	someone?	Hopefully	she	made	you	realize	the	value	of
empathy,	encouraging	you	to	stand	awhile	in	another’s	moccasins	before
judging.

So	it	goes	while	Saturn	is	transiting	through	Pisces,	the	sign	of	the	underdog.
As	adults,	we	are	judged,	and	rightly	so,	by	how	we	treat	those	who	are	smaller
or	weaker	than	we	are.	And	here’s	the	not-so-well-kept	secret:	We	judge	others
based	on	our	own	fears	and	inadequacies.	If	you	ridicule	people	based	on	their
clothing,	their	color,	their	weight,	their	sexual	orientation,	or	the	car	they	drive,



clothing,	their	color,	their	weight,	their	sexual	orientation,	or	the	car	they	drive,
you	are	an	insecure	mess.	You	are	seeking	a	scapegoat.

While	in	Pisces,	Saturn	intends	to	put	an	end	to	such	nonsense.	Grown-ups
are	kind	to	others.	For	that	matter,	they	know	when	to	give	themselves	a	break,
too.
Most	challenging	for:	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius
Earned	rewards	for:	Cancer,	Scorpio
Advancement	opportunities	for:	Taurus,	Capricorn
Saturn	in	Pisces	(1950–2050):	Mar.	1964–Mar.	1967;	May	1993–Apr.	1996;
Mar.	2023–Feb.	2026

TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS	AND
ANGLES
Transiting	Saturn	moves	at	the	rate	of	about	3	degrees	of	the	zodiac	per	month.
Its	transits	are	generally	experienced	most	strongly	for	about	six	weeks—or
more	if	Saturn	moves	retrograde	within	a	couple	of	degrees	of	a	natal	planet.

Saturn’s	conjunction,	square,	opposition,	and	quincunx	aspects	to	natal
planets	can	suggest	times	of	struggle,	blockage,	exhaustion,	and	feeling	as	if	too
much	responsibility	has	been	placed	on	your	shoulders.	The	same	can	happen
under	Saturn’s	transiting	trines,	and	sextiles,	but	these	also	bring	a	feeling	that
you	are	getting	an	opportunity	to	take	your	game	to	the	next	level,	especially
professionally.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

This	can	be	a	productive,	character-building	transit,	but	rarely	a	cheerful	one.
You	will	generally	feel	as	though	you’re	carrying	the	weight	of	Saturn	itself	on
your	shoulders.	Further,	you	will	feel	you’re	not	getting	credit	for	all	this	heavy
lifting;	on	the	contrary,	others	may	accuse	you	of	being	a	killjoy.	It’s	tempting	to
say	that	the	trine	or	sextile	from	Saturn	to	the	natal	Sun	is	not	so	bad,	but	really,
those	transits	don’t	feel	all	that	wonderful,	either.	If	you’re	looking	for	a	good
transit	for	tackling	projects	that	require	confidence	and	popularity,	this	is	not	one
of	them.

So	what	are	Saturn/Sun	transits	good	for?	They’re	unsurpassed	for	building
strength	and	endurance	and	for	proving	to	yourself	that	you	can	stick	it	out	when
times	get	tough.	Through	these	transits,	you’ll	develop	strength	and	character
that	lasts	because	it	has	been	truly	earned.	So	show	up,	put	your	behind	in	the



seat,	keep	your	head	down,	and	do	your	work.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

Saturn	is	the	tough	daddy	who	insists	on	your	best	effort	and	shows	no	sympathy
when	you	fail.	The	Moon	is	your	inner	mommy,	the	one	you	run	to	when
someone	makes	you	sad	or	beats	you	up	for	your	lunch	money.	When	transiting
Saturn	aspects	your	natal	Moon,	mom	and	dad	negotiate	about	the	best	way	for
you	to	parent	yourself.

If	Saturn	is	making	a	conjunction,	square,	or	opposition	to	your	natal	Moon,
the	dialogue	is	rough,	with	Saturn	insisting	you	need	to	toughen	up	and	the
Moon	maintaining	that	you	need	to	be	protected.	Often	an	authority	figure	in
your	life—a	boss,	a	coach,	a	parent—makes	life	difficult	for	you	during	these
transits.	If	the	aspect	is	a	gentler	one,	a	trine	or	a	sextile,	a	satisfying
compromise	between	the	two	approaches	is	more	easily	reached.	Either	way,	this
transit	demands	that	you	learn	important	lessons	about	protecting	yourself.
Usually	the	lessons	learned	are	about	creating	healthier	boundaries	in
relationships	and	structuring	your	life	in	a	way	that	allows	you	to	grow	while
still	feeling	safe.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

This	transit	usually	happens	within	a	few	weeks	of	transiting	Saturn’s	aspect	to
the	natal	Sun,	which	overshadows	everything	else.	But	there	are	distinct
differences	between	that	one	and	Saturn’s	aspects	to	Mercury.	The	Sun	is	about
who	you	are	or	are	learning	to	be;	Mercury,	on	the	other	hand,	is	about	who	you
tell	yourself	that	you	are,	how	you	frame	the	epic	saga	of	your	personal
development.	When	transiting	Saturn	aspects	Mercury,	a	reality	check	is	in
order:	Are	you	telling	the	truth	about	yourself,	your	goals,	your	life?	Are	you
trying	so	hard	to	spin	reality	that	you	no	longer	know	what	the	truth	is?

For	each	of	us,	there	are	stories	about	ourselves	that	we	would	prefer	to
forget.	Sometimes	Saturn’s	transits	of	Mercury	offer	opportunities	to	revisit
them,	perhaps	with	renewed	perspective	and	understanding.	Relationships	with
siblings	and	neighbors	are	the	province	of	Mercury,	and	these	are	relationships
that	can	help	you	come	to	a	clearer	understanding	of	yourself	during	these
transits.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

As	this	transit	begins—especially	the	conjunction,	square,	or	opposition—you
may	feel	unloved	or	as	though	you	will	never	have	enough	money.

But	Saturn	has	a	plan.	Saturn	wants	you	to	feel	good	about	yourself.	Really
good.	Authentically	good.	He	wants	you	to	have	a	financial	goal,	a	vision.	He	is



good.	Authentically	good.	He	wants	you	to	have	a	financial	goal,	a	vision.	He	is
forcing	you	into	the	driver’s	seat	in	this	area	of	your	life.	He	is	saying,	“No	more
pretending	that	you	are	powerless	to	resist	the	siren	song	of	ill-advised	love
affairs	or	sad	stories	from	people	who	are	broke.	No	more	using	money	as	a	way
to	distance	yourself	from	other	people.”

So	make	a	plan,	then	take	the	steps	necessary	to	implement	it.	Manage	what
you	have	more	wisely.	When	life	gets	tough,	sometimes	the	most	responsible
action	is	to	ask	for	help—from	family,	friends,	even	the	universe.	As	astrologer
Caroline	Casey	says,	the	universe	wants	to	help,	but	spiritual	etiquette	requires
that	we	ask.	Ritual,	even	something	as	simple	as	burning	a	candle	while	stating
our	intention	for	the	month	ahead,	is	a	way	of	politely	asking	the	universe	for	the
aid	we	seek.	And	sometimes	the	best	thing	that	comes	out	of	a	Saturn	transit	is
clarity	about	what	we	need	versus	what	we	simply	want.	Often,	simply
understanding	what	you	need	to	the	extent	that	you	are	able	to	articulate	it	is
very	powerful,	very	Saturnian	magic.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

When	transiting	Saturn	aspects	natal	Mars,	your	inner	guard	dog	springs	to	life,
straining	against	its	leash,	escaping	from	the	backyard	fence,	and	menacing	the
neighbors.	During	a	relatively	benign	sextile,	I	had	a	lecturer	at	school	(a	Saturn
authority	figure)	who	wrote	disparaging	comments	on	one	of	my	papers	and
made	“corrections”	to	grammar	that	was,	according	to	Strunk	and	White,	already
entirely	correct.	My	rage	was	incendiary.

The	soundtrack	for	this	transit	is	the	Bobby	Fuller	Five	oldie	“I	Fought	the
Law	(and	the	Law	Won).”	Saturn	will	win	in	the	end;	quick-tempered	Mars	is
simply	overpowered	and	outlasted.	But	you	have	the	choice	of	what	lesson	to
take	away	from	these	transits:	Will	you	impose	more	control	and	discipline	over
your	temper,	impulsiveness,	and	physical	drives?	Or	indulge	in	chronic	rage
against	“The	Man”?
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

This	is	one	transiting	combination	in	which	the	type	of	aspect	involved	makes	a
big	difference.	A	hard	aspect	from	transiting	Saturn	to	natal	Jupiter	can	make
you	feel	like	the	unluckiest	person	in	the	world.	A	nice	trine	or	sextile,	however,
can	bring	your	fondest	hopes	to	fruition,	because	Saturn	gives	form	and	structure
to	Jupiter’s	pie-in-the-sky	dreams.

When	the	transiting	aspect	is	a	conjunction,	square,	or	opposition,	Jupiter
simply	experiences	Saturn	as	a	buzzkill.	Saturn,	for	his	part,	has	lost	all	patience
with	Jupiter’s	big	ideas	and	lack	of	follow-through,	and	starts	to	get	a	little	bit
mean.



mean.
Luckily,	Jupiter	is	smart	enough	to	know	that	his	huge	ambitions	need	a	little

discipline	and	practicality	to	become	reality.	And	Saturn	loves	nothing	more
than	to	roll	up	his	sleeves	and	sort	out	a	huge	mess.	So	a	trine	or	sextile	between
the	two	can	bring	your	dreams	to	reality.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

These	transits	are	milestones	in	your	evolving,	lifelong	journey	with	Saturn.
Look	for	events,	people,	and	circumstances	that	awaken	your	ambition,
responsibility,	and	authority.

You	have	reached	an	important	point	in	Saturn’s	cycle	of	maturity,
responsibility,	and	authority.	If	the	aspect	is	a	conjunction,	you	are	having	a
Saturn	return	and	beginning	a	new	twenty-nine-year	cycle.	The	trines	and
sextiles	support	your	self-discipline	and	attitude	toward	career,	reputation,	and
achievement;	the	squares	and	opposition	represent	moments	when,	through
conflict,	you	gain	perspective	that	encourages	greater	maturity.	(See	“Using
Saturn’s	Cycle”	on	page	51	for	more	about	these	aspects.)
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

A	part	of	each	of	us	doesn’t	want	to	conform	or	live	according	to	anyone’s	rules;
that’s	the	part	we	call	Uranus.	There	is	an	equally	compelling	urge	to	be
respected	and	recognized	by	society,	to	achieve	stature;	that	urge	is	called
Saturn.	When	the	two	collide,	we	must	decide	whether	to	indulge	one	side	or	the
other,	or	to	find	a	compromise.	During	a	conjunction	or	square,	you	may	feel
like	a	hopeless	outcast.	Everyone	close	to	you	seems	to	be	reaching	milestones
beyond	your	grasp.	The	opposition,	interestingly,	seems	to	have	just	the	reverse
effect,	allowing	you	to	conform	without	losing	your	individuality.	And	the	trine
and	sextile	can	make	you	feel	about	as	popular	as	you’ll	ever	feel,	as	your
distinctive	brand	of	wackiness	suddenly	finds	its	place	in	society.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

Saturn	trine	or	sextile	Neptune	marks	some	kind	of	honeymoon	period,	where
the	status	quo	feels	wonderful.	When	Saturn	opposes	or	squares	Neptune,	the
honeymoon	is	over,	the	clouds	disappear,	and	grim	reality	is	revealed.	The
conjunction	between	the	two	is	pretty	difficult:	What	happens	when	you	have	no
refuge	from	reality?	It’s	like	torture	by	sleep	deprivation,	discordant	music
blaring	at	all	hours.

If	you’re	of	a	certain	age	and	haven’t	been	taking	care	of	yourself,	this	is
when	your	health	gremlins	can	come	home	to	roost.	If	you’re	young	and	robustly
healthy,	you’re	more	likely	to	experience	serious	disillusionment	about
something	or	someone	in	your	life.	Ultimately,	the	purpose	of	the	transit	is	to



something	or	someone	in	your	life.	Ultimately,	the	purpose	of	the	transit	is	to
make	us	face	reality	and	acknowledge	our	limits;	only	then	can	we	begin	to
understand	the	potential	beauty	of	things	as	they	truly	are.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

From	time	to	time,	you	will	find	that	you	have	climbed	to	the	next	level	in	your
life.	You	have	achieved	some	kind	of	success,	reached	an	important
developmental	milestone,	and	you	feel	good	about	yourself.	Until	suddenly	you
don’t.	Some	people	can’t	stand	to	see	others	achieve;	on	the	Internet,	we	call
them	“trolls,”	miserable	sorts	who	crawl	out	of	the	muck	to	spew	invective	in
blog	comments.

There	is	a	troll	inside	you,	too—a	nasty	little	creature	who	whispers	that
you’re	insignificant,	a	deep	disappointment	to	your	family,	to	yourself,	and
potentially	to	humanity.	This	troll	is	awakened	when	Saturn	transits	Pluto.	Will
you	let	yourself	be	successful,	or	will	you	let	others	tear	you	down	because	you
don’t	believe	you	deserve	your	success?
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	NORTH	NODE

We’re	taught	that	transits	of	Saturn	deny	us	whatever	we	want	as	a	kind	of
character-building	exercise.	Sometimes	that	happens.	But	sometimes,	usually
after	we	have	struggled	and	worked	and	sacrificed	for	a	very	long	time,	Saturn
transits	bring	us	something	very	precious.	Especially	Saturn’s	transits	of	the
Moon’s	North	Node.

The	North	Node	represents	a	sort	of	brass	ring	that,	if	you	reach	for	it,
delivers	profound	happiness.	Saturn’s	transits	to	your	North	Node	can	bring	truly
life-changing	success.	Sometimes	you	succeed	in	a	way	that	you	have
envisioned,	down	to	the	last,	most	unlikely	details;	sometimes	the	success	comes
in	a	form	you	never	could	have	imagined	but	makes	perfect	sense	in	hindsight.
However,	if	you’ve	been	working	all	along	toward	the	things	that	make	your
heart	sing,	this	is	a	transit	that	will	open	doors	for	you.	All	you	have	to	do	is
walk	through	them.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	ASCENDANT

The	Ascendant	symbolizes	the	threshold	between	you	and	the	rest	of	the	world.
It’s	the	body	that	defines	you	as	an	individual,	with	your	own	appearance	and
name.	It’s	the	style	and	personality	you	put	together	to	impress	others,	set
yourself	apart,	and	cope	with	what	the	world	throws	at	you.	It’s	even	your	literal
threshold,	the	front	door	to	your	house	and	what	you	see	when	you	first	walk
outside.

When	Saturn	aspects	the	natal	Ascendant,	a	significant	adjustment	is	made	to
your	threshold.	You	might	move	to	a	new	house,	change	your	appearance	or



your	threshold.	You	might	move	to	a	new	house,	change	your	appearance	or
your	name,	or	adopt	a	new	style;	all	of	these	will	generally	be	of	the	nature	of
Saturn:	serious,	classic,	mature.

There	may	be	loss,	or	a	feeling	of	mortality.	The	Saturn-ruled	parts	of	the
body	(i.e.,	joints,	bones,	teeth)	may	suffer.	When	Saturn	comes	to	your	door,
he’s	not	peddling	magazines	or	religion.	He’s	reminding	you	in	every	way	he
can	that	none	of	us	lives	forever,	and	that	it’s	up	to	you	to	create	the
environment	you	want	for	yourself	while	you’re	here.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MIDHEAVEN

As	transiting	Saturn	makes	an	aspect	to	the	Midheaven,	it	may	seem	that	the
earthly	goals	you	set	for	yourself	are	out	of	reach	or	not	bringing	you	as	much
happiness	as	you’d	hoped.	You	might	find	yourself	at	a	moment	when	the	people
you	thought	were	your	closest	friends	seem	to	be	turning	away	from	you.	You
may	feel	tired	and	fed	up,	frustrated,	and	constrained	by	obligations.	Everyone
has	limits,	and	you	may	very	well	feel	that	you’ve	reached	yours.

But	by	the	end	of	this	transit,	you’ll	realize	that	what’s	important	in	your	life
is	still	alive	and	well.	You	have	learned	what	doesn’t	work	for	you.	You’re
learning	that	the	more	you	respect	yourself,	the	more	you	will	attract	people	who
also	respect	you.	Real	success	in	life	doesn’t	depend	on	what	you	do,	but	how
you	do	it—with	dignity,	honor,	self-respect,	enthusiasm,	and	respect	for	others.



chapter	5
TRANSITS	OF	URANUS:	THE	SHOOTING	STAR

Planetary	Dossier:	URANUS

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	84	years
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	about	7	years
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	approximately	3	months
STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Aquarius,	possibly	Scorpio
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Leo,	possibly	Taurus
KEYWORDS:	awakening,	invention,	originality,	science,	the	future,	electricity,	revolution,
rebellion,	unexpected	events,	natural	disasters

O ne	day,	you’re	a	plain,	awkward,	middle-aged	woman	living	a	quiet	and
slightly	lonely	life	in	a	small	village.	Precisely	one	day	later,	your
extraordinary	singing	voice	has	made	you	an	overnight	sensation.

Suddenly	you	are	adored	by	millions—not	only	for	your	lovely	voice,	but	also
for	your	unpolished	charm	and	unpretentious	spunk.	But	now,	the	pressure	is	on.
Will	you	be	just	a	flash	in	the	pan,	a	novelty	act…	or	can	you	build	an	actual
career,	with	real	staying	power?

It’s	the	stuff	of	fairy	tales,	but	it	actually	happened	to	vocalist	Susan	Boyle.
Just	before	her	forty-eighth	birthday,	Boyle	stepped	onto	the	stage	as	a
contestant	on	Britain’s	Got	Talent.	Taking	in	her	dowdy	frock,	frizzy	hair,	and
makeup-free	face,	the	judges	and	audience	tittered	as	Boyle	shared	her	dream	of
becoming	a	Broadway	star.	Then	she	opened	her	mouth	and	began	to	sing,	and
no	one	was	laughing.	By	the	time	she	sang	the	third	line	of	her	song,	the
audience	was	cheering.	When	she	finished,	there	wasn’t	a	dry	eye	in	the	house.

In	just	under	three	minutes,	one	unassuming	but	spunky	Scotswoman	had
broken	through	the	world’s	cynicism,	capturing	attention,	awakening	hearts,	and
offering	inspiration.

On	the	night	the	program	aired,	transiting	Uranus,	the	planet	of	surprise	and
change,	was	making	a	square	aspect	to	Boyle’s	natal	Ascendant,	the	point	of	the
chart	that	symbolizes	physical	appearance	and	personality.	However	lovely	her



singing	voice,	the	impact	of	Boyle’s	performance	would	not	have	been	the	same
had	she	been	more	elegantly	groomed	or	more	conventionally	attractive.	It	was
the	contrast	between	her	magical	voice	and	the	audience’s	expectations,	based
on	her	appearance,	that	stunned	the	crowd.	Someone	who	looked	like	Susan
Boyle	was	not	supposed	to	be	talented;	she	was	supposed	to	be	ignored.

Transiting	Uranus	did	not	make	Susan	Boyle	a	star.	Without	natural	talent
that	had	been	refined	over	years	of	practice,	she	would	have	performed	without
distinction,	earned	more	ridicule,	and	never	been	heard	from	again.	What
transiting	Uranus	did	was	signal	a	moment,	an	opportunity,	for	the	whole	weird,
wonderful	Susan	Boyle	package	to	break	through	and	surprise	the	world.

Astrologers	usually	say	that	transits	of	Uranus	bring	change	and	unexpected
events.	That’s	not	untrue,	and	it	would	be	disingenuous	of	me	to	suggest	that
every	Uranus	transit	is	positive.	Even	positive	change	comes	with	complications.
It	isn’t	always	easy	to	deal	with	being	noticed,	because	there	is	a	fine	line
between	being	recognized	as	unique	and	feeling	like	a	misfit.	When	Uranus
comes	along,	you	may	feel	lonely.	You	may	feel	weird.	Within	months	of	her
television	debut,	Susan	Boyle	was	hospitalized	for	emotional	stress.	It	was	an
extreme	consequence	of	a	Uranus	transit—but	then,	hers	was	a	dramatic	Uranus
transit!

Uranus	transits	can	have	a	dark	side.	But	they	also	nearly	always	offer	the
opportunity	to	break	out	of	your	shell,	live	a	different	kind	of	life,	and	reinvent
yourself.

THE	NATURE	OF	THE	BEAST
Early	astrologers	relied	on	a	simple	and	elegant	system	comprising	the	visible
planets,	the	Sun,	and	the	Moon.	Saturn	represented	the	“city	limits”	of	our	solar
system,	and	so	it	came	to	symbolize	boundaries	of	all	kinds	and	even	death.

Then,	in	1781,	this	elegant	system	was	set	on	its	ear	by	the	discovery	of	a
new	planet:	Uranus.

Not	only	did	Uranus	crash	a	very	exclusive	party,	but	it	didn’t	even	try	to	fit
in.	Unlike	a	proper,	respectable	planet,	Uranus	orbits	the	Sun	while	lying	on	its
side.	There	are	at	least	three	different	ways	to	pronounce	its	name,	a	name	which
was	decided	on	only	after	a	couple	of	failed	attempts	to	disrupt	the	tradition	of
naming	the	planets	for	mythological	figures.

In	these	simple	facts	about	the	planet	Uranus,	we	see	several	key	facets	of	its
astrological	symbolism:

•	Uranus	is	associated	with	breaking	the	rules	and	disrupting	the	established
order.



order.
•	Uranus	is	associated	with	people	who	don’t	fit	in.
•	Uranus	represents	tension	between	tradition	and	innovation.

In	your	birth	chart,	Uranus	symbolizes	how	you	are	different,	innovative,	and
perhaps	a	bit	rebellious;	how	well	you	fit	in,	or	don’t;	and	how	well	you	coexist
with	tradition	and	rules.	By	transit,	Uranus	generally	indicates	that	you	are	being
asked	to	change,	innovate,	or	consider	whether	to	fit	in.

But	that	sounds	dry,	and	it’s	inadequate.	“Being	asked	to	change”	sounds	as
though	the	universe	has	sent	you	an	invitation	to	an	unexpected	but	generally
agreeable	soiree.	The	reality	is	that	Uranus’s	disruptions	can	indeed	be
extremely	exciting	and	welcome,	depending	on	your	disposition	and	the	nature
of	the	disruption.	But	very	often,	Uranian	transits	are	a	volatile	mixture	of
exhilarating	excitement	and	unsettling	disorientation.	They	are	the	reminder	that
you	are	not	static;	you	are	not	a	statue.	You	might	have	forgotten	that,	imagining
yourself	as	just	one,	unchanging	thing.	Uranus	is	here	to	wake	you	up	and
remind	you	that	all	things	change,	and	so	can	you.

USING	URANUS’S	CYCLE
Uranus’s	transits	require	a	willingness	to	reinvent	yourself	at	the	expense	of	your
security	and	comfort.	The	seasons	of	its	eighty-four-year	cycle	describe	the
process	of	that	reinvention.

The	Uranus	cycle	can	be	divided	into	four	segments	of	about	twenty-one
years	each.	Each	of	these	segments	represents	an	important	phase	of	the	cycle—
initiation,	cultivation,	review,	and	adjustment.	It	is	a	story	of	dissatisfaction	with
the	status	quo.	It	is	a	story	about	learning	to	celebrate	the	untamed,	eccentric,
one-of-a-kind	you.

On	the	day	you	were	born,	and	on	the	day	any	important	event	happened	in
your	life,	Uranus	occupied	a	specific	degree	of	a	particular	sign.	About	every
eighty-four	years,	Uranus	returns	to	that	degree	of	the	same	sign,	called	the
Uranus	return.

In	the	tarot,	the	Tower	card—which	many	associate	with	Uranus—shows	a
castle	turret	being	struck	by	lightning.	That’s	as	good	a	metaphor	as	any	for	the
beginning	of	a	Uranus	cycle.	Your	world	is	suddenly	turned	upside	down.	The
circumstance	that	capsizes	you	may	be	a	natural	disaster	or	car	accident,	an
exciting	new	romantic	interest,	sudden	fame,	or	a	midlife	crisis.	Whatever	the
nature	of	the	event	that	strikes	your	tower,	the	requirement	is	the	same:	that	you
improvise,	innovate,	and	adapt	to	your	new	reality.
THE	FIRST	URANUS	SQUARE



THE	FIRST	URANUS	SQUARE
Age	21
At	twenty-one,	we	all	experience	the	first	square	from	transiting	Uranus	to	our
natal	Uranus	position,	and	most	of	us	go	a	little	bit	nuts.	We	cut	our	hair	in	some
extreme	way,	move	far	from	home,	get	involved	with	bad	relationships	and
sketchy	behavior.	There	is	often	the	unsettling	feeling	of	no	longer	knowing	who
you	are	or	what	you	want	from	life.

But	there	is	a	positive	impulse	at	work	here	too:	the	desire	to	throw	off	the
rules	and	constraints	with	which	you	were	raised	and	claim	a	life	that	is	uniquely
yours.	Everything	seems	possible,	past	restrictions	are	thrown	away	with	both
hands,	and	if	you	wish	to,	you	can	create	a	life	that’s	absolutely	different	from
the	one	you	inherited	from	your	parents.
THE	URANUS	OPPOSITION
Age	42
When	you	experience	transiting	Uranus’s	opposition	to	its	natal	position,	you’ll
be	about	forty-two	years	old—truly	middle-aged.	The	need	for	rebellion	is	still
strong,	but	the	pressures	to	act	out	or	the	ways	of	doing	so	are	usually	pretty
different.	Oh,	people	who’ve	walked	the	straight	and	narrow	for	twenty	years
might	cut	loose	and	perform	the	sad	little	midlife	crisis	drama—ditch	the	older
partner	for	the	younger	one,	get	a	red	sports	car,	whatever.	But	most	of	us	have	a
quieter	sort	of	awakening.	One	that	says,	“Yikes,	I	really	am	not	getting	any
younger,	am	I?”

I	had	my	Uranus	opposition	when	I	was	a	forty-two-year-old	college	junior	at
a	state	university.	I	spent	my	days	sitting	in	lecture	halls	with	people	who	were
having	their	Uranus	squares.	It	was	the	perfect	setting	for	a	midlife	crisis,
actually,	because	Uranus	transits	call	for	an	examination	of	the	ways	we	don’t	fit
in,	and	I	certainly	didn’t	fit	in	there.	But	unlike	at	the	Uranus	square	of	age
twenty-one,	at	the	opposition	you	know	who	you	are.	You	just	don’t	know
whether	you	want	to	be	that	person	anymore.
THE	SECOND	URANUS	SQUARE
Age	63
When	you’re	about	sixty-three,	transiting	Uranus	makes	one	last	square	to	your
natal	Uranus	position.	Traditionally,	this	was	the	age	when	most	people	began
their	transition	into	retirement.	Today,	many	people	are	choosing	to	remain	in
the	workforce	well	into	their	sixties	and	even	seventies,	for	financial	reasons	or
simply	because	they	still	feel	they	have	plenty	of	energy	and	wisdom	to
contribute.

If	you	do	transition	out	of	the	workforce	at	this	age,	the	new	freedom	may	be



If	you	do	transition	out	of	the	workforce	at	this	age,	the	new	freedom	may	be
disconcerting.	Living	life	without	your	usual	schedule,	rules,	and	social
infrastructure	is	a	huge	adjustment.	However	confining	your	life	may	have	been,
the	freedom	to	spend	your	days	in	any	way	you	choose	can	be	overwhelming	at
first.	Since	Uranus	is	also	associated	with	social	networks,	it	can	be	helpful	to
cultivate	at	least	one	or	two	group-centered	activities	to	help	keep	you	connected
and	involved.
THE	URANUS	RETURN
Age	84
Uranus	returns	to	its	position	in	your	natal	chart	only	once	in	your	lifetime,	when
you’re	at	age	eighty-four.	It’s	only	recently	that	an	upward	trend	in	longevity	has
made	it	more	common	for	individuals	to	experience	a	Uranus	return.	If	you	are
lucky	enough	to	reach	your	Uranus	return,	it	can	be	a	time	when	you	reinvent
yourself	one	last	time,	particularly	if	you	enjoy	reasonable	health	and	financial
security.	This	time,	the	urge	for	freedom	manifests	itself	as	a	rejection	of	societal
preconceptions	about	old	age.	It	may	be	necessary	to	fight	for	your
independence	and	freedom	to	live	on	your	own,	or	at	least	on	your	own	terms.

TRANSITING	URANUS	BY	SIGN
Uranus	urges	change	and	liberation	from	the	constraints	that	make	life	dull.	Its
transits	through	the	twelve	signs	of	the	zodiac	prescribe	the	avenues	through
which	all	of	us,	simultaneously,	seek	more	liberty,	autonomy,	and	opportunity
for	innovation.	The	extent	to	which	this	affects	you	directly	will	depend	on
planets	you	may	have	in	each	sign,	and	the	house	of	your	chart	through	which
Uranus	is	transiting	(see	part	III).

The	years	of	Uranus’s	most	recent	and	next	transits	through	each	sign	are
given.	These	include	retrograde	periods	when	Uranus	might	back	into	a	previous
sign	for	a	short	time.

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ARIES	(1927–1934;	2010–2018)	

Aries	has	a	can-do	spirit	and	the	ability	to	survive	in	the	face	of	societal
upheaval	and	even	revolution.	However,	it	can	be	an	excessively	self-absorbed
and	aggressive	sign.	I’m	writing	this	during	Uranus’s	transit	through	Aries,	and
what	is	striking	is	a	certain	wild-west	spirit	and	a	regrettable	emphasis	on	the
primacy	of	the	individual.	“Me	first,”	and	in	fact	“me	only,”	is	the	spirit	of	the
times.
Upheaval	for:	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn



Awakenings	for:	Leo,	Sagittarius
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Gemini,	Aquarius

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	TAURUS	(1934–1941;	2018–2025)	

In	the	1930s,	Uranus’s	transit	of	Taurus,	a	sign	closely	associated	with	money,
was	reflected	in	the	Great	Depression,	a	devastating	disruption	of	economic	and
societal	stability.	Some	argue,	however,	that	this	kind	of	disruption	can	be
necessary	when	too	many	resources	have	been	concentrated	in	too	few	hands.
The	consequences	of	Uranus	transiting	Taurus	can	be	the	dispersal	of	wealth	and
property	more	equally	through	society,	as	was	the	case	in	the	United	States
following	World	War	II.
Upheaval	for:	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius
Awakenings	for:	Virgo,	Capricorn
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Cancer,	Pisces

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	GEMINI	(1941–1948;	2025–2032)	

Previous	transits	of	Uranus	in	Gemini	have	seen	revolutionary	advances	in
technology	and	transportation,	both	ruled	by	this	sign.	Gemini	also	rules
communities	and	neighborhoods,	and	in	the	postwar	United	States,	the
emergence	of	suburbs	created	an	automobile	culture,	disrupted	existing
communities,	and	led	to	a	more	isolated	and	fragmented	society.	Gemini	is	one
of	the	signs	associated	with	the	mind,	and	radical	ideologies	can	prosper	while
Uranus	transits	here.
Upheaval	for:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces
Awakenings	for:	Libra,	Aquarius
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Leo,	Aries

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	CANCER	(1948–1956;	2032–2040)	

While	Uranus	is	in	Cancer,	families,	food,	and	nationalism	all	begin	to	change
shape.	Technology	affects	the	way	we	nourish	ourselves;	caretakers	are	liberated
by	innovations	that	make	their	daily	tasks	easier.

During	the	most	recent	transit	of	Uranus	in	Cancer	in	the	late	1940s	to	mid-
1950s,	a	radical	reconfiguration	of	the	traditional	family	unit	was	under	way.
Birth	control	offered	women	reproductive	control	and	helped	open	the	door	to
new	opportunities	outside	the	home.	The	flight	to	the	suburbs	and	the	decrease	in



new	opportunities	outside	the	home.	The	flight	to	the	suburbs	and	the	decrease	in
multigenerational	households	changed	the	way	we	thought	about	family	and
community.
Upheaval	for:	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries
Awakenings	for:	Scorpio,	Pisces
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Virgo,	Taurus

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	LEO	(1955–1962;	2039–2046)	

Uranus	in	Leo	is	characterized	by	shocking	upheavals	in	popular	culture,
unorthodox	attitudes	toward	parenting	and	young	people,	and	the	rebellious
embrace	of	individualism	and	self-expression.	Uranus’s	most	recent	transit
through	Leo	introduced	the	beatniks	and	the	beginning	of	an	artistic	revolution.
Though	mainstream	culture	was	still	listening	to	crooners	from	the	Big	Band	era,
a	rich	subculture	of	shaggy	poets	and	aggressively	nonglamorous	musicians,
movie	stars,	and	writers	was	blossoming.	Dr.	Benjamin	Spock’s	then-
controversial	views	on	child-rearing	were	adopted	by	parents	wishing	to	prepare
their	children	to	be	stronger	individuals.
Upheaval	for:	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus
Awakenings	for:	Sagittarius,	Aries
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Libra,	Gemini

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	VIRGO	(1961–1969;	2045–2052)	

Uranus	transiting	the	sign	of	work,	health,	and	service	introduces	dramatic
adjustments	in	the	workplace	and	the	technology	of	everyday	life.	Uranus	was
transiting	Virgo	during	the	1960s,	one	of	the	most	tumultuous	recent	periods	in
U.S.	history.	The	civil	rights	movement	disrupted	political	agendas	and	created
the	most	profound	schism	between	North	and	South	since	the	Civil	War.
Meanwhile,	technology	became	part	of	daily	life,	the	workforce	was	shaken	up
by	the	entry	of	more	women	and	minorities,	and	it	was	becoming	evident	that
mechanization	was	going	to	eventually	liberate—or	more	frighteningly,	displace
—many	workers.
Upheaval	for:	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini
Awakenings	for:	Capricorn,	Taurus



Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Scorpio,	Cancer
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	LIBRA	(1968–1975;	2051–2059)	

The	last	transit	of	Uranus	in	Libra,	the	sign	of	relationships	and	of	balance,
coincided	with	the	sexual	revolution	and	the	rise	of	the	women’s	liberation
movement.	Widely	available	birth	control	and	the	Supreme	Court	decision	in
Roe	vs.	Wade	that	legalized	abortion	transformed	sexual	relationships;	women
could	now	explore	sexual	freedom	with	far	less	likelihood	of	unwanted
pregnancy.	In	1972,	the	Equal	Rights	Amendment	cleared	both	houses	of
Congress	and,	while	it	failed	to	receive	ratification	from	enough	states,
demonstrated	that	the	balance	of	power	had	shifted	away	from	male	dominance
and	closer	to	equality.	The	divorce	rate	rose	dramatically,	and	women	entered
the	workforce	in	record	numbers.
Upheaval	for:	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer
Awakenings	for:	Aquarius,	Gemini
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Sagittarius,	Leo

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	SCORPIO	(1974–1981;	2058–2065)	

Uranus	calls	for	liberation,	and	Scorpio	knows	where	all	the	taboos	are	hidden;
it’s	no	wonder	this	transit	brings	all	manner	of	skeletons	spilling	out	of	society’s
various	closets.	Scorpio	rules	sexual	intimacy,	and	Uranus’s	most	recent	transit
of	Scorpio	began	when	sexual	liberation	was	at	its	peak.	The	transit	closed	with
an	epidemic	of	a	deadly	sexually	transmitted	disease,	AIDS,	which
disproportionately	affected	gay	men.	Many	were	shocked	when	actor	Rock
Hudson	died	from	AIDS,	and	his	death	led	to	mainstream	discussions	about	the
epidemic	and	gay	culture.

Uranus’s	transit	of	Scorpio	was	also	a	time	widely	regarded	as	a	golden	age
of	cinema,	with	gritty	dramas	confronting	the	horror	of	Vietnam	and	the	effects
on	those	who	fought	there,	and	a	spectacular	assortment	of	stories	set	in	space,
exploring	the	possibility	of	extraterrestrial	life.	In	New	York,	a	nascent	punk
rock	movement,	shocking	and	ugly	to	mainstream	audiences,	would	explode	at
the	end	of	the	1970s.
Upheaval	for:	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo
Awakenings	for:	Pisces,	Cancer
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Capricorn,	Virgo



TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	SAGITTARIUS	(1981–1988;	2065–2072)	

When	Uranus	transits	Sagittarius,	look	for	radical	changes	to	education,	religion,
and	long-distance	travel.	The	last	transit	of	Uranus	in	Sagittarius	saw	a	boom	in
television	evangelism,	when	the	Federal	Communications	Commission	allowed
stations	to	accept	advertising	for	religious	programs.	Air	travel—also	ruled	by
Sagittarius—underwent	changes	in	this	era,	including	deregulation	of	airlines
and	dismantling	of	the	air	traffic	controllers	union.	In	education,	there	were	calls
for	reform	and	a	shift	away	from	standardized	public	schools,	with	many
families	opting	for	independent	charter	and	religious	schools	and
homeschooling.
Upheaval	for:	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo
Awakenings	for:	Aries,	Leo
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Aquarius,	Libra

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	CAPRICORN	(1904–1912;	1988–1995;	2072–2079)	

When	Uranus	transits	Capricorn,	the	world	changes	in	measurable	ways	with
long-reaching	consequences.	Say	good-bye	to	the	established	order	as
governments	and	other	institutions	are	set	on	their	ears.	The	most	recent	transit
of	Uranus	through	Capricorn,	the	sign	of	the	establishment,	saw	the	fall	of	the
Berlin	Wall	and	the	end	of	the	Cold	War;	the	Black	Friday	stock	market	crash;
the	first	fully	televised	military	conflict	(the	first	U.S.	invasion	of	Iraq);	racial
unrest	and	riots	in	Los	Angeles	after	police	officers	were	acquitted	of	brutalizing
Rodney	King;	the	release	of	Nelson	Mandela	from	prison	and	the	end	of	South
African	apartheid;	the	Oklahoma	City	bombing;	and	the	revolts	in	Tiananmen
Square.	The	previous	transit	of	Uranus	in	Capricorn	gave	birth	to	popular	film,
revealed	Einstein’s	theory	of	relativity,	saw	San	Francisco	leveled	in	an	epic
earthquake	and	fire,	welcomed	Ford’s	Model	T,	and	brought	down	the
“unsinkable”	Titanic.
Upheaval	for:	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra
Awakenings	for:	Taurus,	Virgo
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Pisces,	Scorpio
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	AQUARIUS	(1995–2003;	2079–2087)	

Uranus	is	considered	particularly	strong	in	Aquarius,	so	these	tend	to	be	years	of
great	technological	advances	and	revolutionary	ideas.	Emerging	technologies,



great	technological	advances	and	revolutionary	ideas.	Emerging	technologies,
such	as	the	Internet,	to	use	an	example	from	the	most	recent	transit	of	Uranus
through	Aquarius,	connect	the	entire	world,	both	for	good	and	for	ill.	The	world
becomes	smaller,	access	to	information	is	more	democratic,	and	social	and
business	connections	become	possible	among	people	who	are	separated	by	great
physical	and	even	ideological	distances.

But	these	are	also	transits	that	accentuate	disruption,	such	as	war	and
pandemics.	Radical	political	movements	flourish,	and	intractable	ideologies	are
reinforced.	Rather	than	understanding	each	other	better,	some	people	become
more	stubbornly	entrenched	in	their	own	worldview.
Upheaval	for:	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio
Awakenings	for:	Gemini,	Libra
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Aries,	Sagittarius

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	PISCES	(2003–2010;	2087–2095)	

Innovative	breakthroughs	in	genetics	and	physics,	but	also	an	emergence	of
racism,	fascism,	and	radical	religious	movements	are	likely	with	Uranus	in
Pisces.	Pisces	is	related	to	disease,	and	widespread	outbreaks	of	infectious
disease	may	occur	(as	with	the	2009	flu	pandemic)	or	lead	to	dramatic	changes
in	society	(the	end	and	immediate	aftermath	of	the	1918	Spanish	flu	pandemic).

Pisces	is	the	sign	of	faith,	of	the	things	we	believe	even	in	the	absence	of
evidence.	During	the	most	recent	transit	of	Uranus	in	Pisces,	logic	and	science
were	often	disregarded	in	favor	of	creating	one’s	own	reality.	Diseases	that	had
been	eradicated	reemerged	as	parents	declined	to	vaccinate	their	children.

Pisces	rules	minorities,	and	during	the	most	recent	transit	of	Uranus	in	Pisces,
many	U.S.	states	legalized	marriage	between	same-sex	couples,	and	the	country
elected	its	first	African-American	president.
Upheaval	for:	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius
Awakenings	for:	Cancer,	Scorpio
Unexpected	opportunities	for:	Taurus,	Capricorn

TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS	AND
ANGLES
Uranus	moves	at	a	rate	of	a	little	less	than	1	degree	of	the	zodiac	per	month.	Its
transits	are	generally	experienced	most	strongly	for	about	three	months:	one
month	in	advance	of	the	exact	aspect,	the	month	it	is	exact,	and	the	month	after



month	in	advance	of	the	exact	aspect,	the	month	it	is	exact,	and	the	month	after
the	aspect	is	exact.

However,	Uranus	is	retrograde	for	half	of	each	year.	It	is	very	likely	that	if
transiting	Uranus	forms	an	aspect	to	a	natal	planet	or	angle,	it	will	repeat	that
aspect	several	times:	once	when	direct,	then	again	when	retrograde,	and	a	third
time	when	it	has	moved	direct	again.	You	may	very	likely	experience	a
transiting	Uranus	aspect	for	up	to	one	full	year.

Uranus’s	conjunction,	square,	opposition,	and	quincunx	aspects	to	natal
planets	can	suggest	rebelliousness,	dramatic	disruptions,	sudden	endings	to
career	or	relationships,	and	instability.	The	same	can	happen	under	Uranus’s
transiting	trines	and	sextiles,	but	these	can	also	bring	a	feeling	that	you	are
getting	an	exciting	fresh	start.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

The	Sun	and	Uranus	serve	completely	different	and	mutually	antagonistic
functions:	The	Sun	symbolizes	a	strong	and	healthy	ego,	and	Uranus	transits
usually	demand	that	you	reinvent	yourself	to	some	degree.	It	can	certainly	be
liberating	to	open	yourself	up	to	new	ways	of	being,	but	it	can	also	be
disorienting.

Much	depends	on	the	relationship	between	the	Sun	and	Uranus	in	your	birth
chart.	If	they	are	in	good	aspect	or	even	just	in	the	same	sign,	you	may	actually
enjoy	these	transits,	feeling	revitalized	and	able	to	function	well	in	environments
that	have	previously	made	you	uncomfortable.	In	poor	aspect	to	each	other,	they
can	trigger	a	chronic	struggle	between	nurturing	your	sense	of	personal	identity
and	avoiding	becoming	too	inflexible	and	missing	exciting	opportunities.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

You	will	probably	feel	itchy	about	where	you	live	and	your	deepest	relationships
during	this	transit.	You	may	be	in	situations	that	make	you	feel	insecure	and
emotionally	unsafe,	or	that	you	don’t	have	enough	privacy.	Your	normal	patterns
of	connecting	with	others	no	longer	work	for	you.	You	may	move	to	a	new	place
under	these	transits—and	if	you	don’t	or	can’t,	you	at	least	want	to,	and	will
often	spend	extra	time	away	from	home	or	try	to	significantly	alter	your	home.

If	the	Moon	has	many	challenging	aspects	to	any	other	planets	in	the	birth
chart,	and	in	particular	to	Uranus,	your	sense	of	safety	and	security	is	constantly
under	threat.	The	pressure	of	a	Uranus	transit	to	the	Moon	gives	you	the
opportunity	to	free	yourself	from	these	often	unconscious	patterns	and	motivate
you	to	develop	more	inner	security	independent	of	external	circumstances.	It
isn’t	necessarily	an	easy	path,	but	in	the	long	run	it	can	be	an	extremely
liberating	one.



liberating	one.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

When	transiting	Uranus	aspects	natal	Mercury,	you	may	feel	it’s	hard	to	get
people	to	listen.	It	may	be	hard	to	speak	out	because	you	feel	different	from	the
people	around	you,	or	you	may	be	living	in	a	new	area	where	you	don’t	know
your	neighbors.	But	these	transits	can	also	augur	periods	in	your	life	when	your
words	have	tremendous	impact	on	others	and	you	have	many	opportunities	to
make	yourself	heard.

John	F.	Kennedy,	born	with	Mercury	square	Uranus,	was	considered	one	of
the	most	inspiring	orators	who	ever	served	as	president	of	the	United	States.	One
of	his	famous	speeches	was	delivered	on	the	occasion	of	his	inauguration,	when
he	memorably	urged,	“Ask	not	what	your	country	can	do	for	you.	Ask	what	you
can	do	for	your	country.”	On	the	day	of	the	inauguration,	transiting	Uranus	was
4	degrees	from	an	exact	square	to	his	natal	Mercury.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

Venus	is	the	planet	of	relationships	and	money,	but	more	generally	it’s	the	planet
of	want	(versus	need,	represented	by	the	Moon).	When	transiting	Uranus
connects	with	natal	Venus,	you	may	find	that	you	have	or	are	motivated	to
achieve	more	financial	freedom.	Relationships	that	begin	under	this	influence
may	be	unconventional,	surprising,	or	even	shocking.	Longtime	relationships
can	suffer	as	both	parties	desire	more	freedom	or,	in	extreme	cases,	to	leave
altogether.	Close	friendships	may	be	disrupted,	yet	your	popularity	overall	may
reach	a	high	point	as	you	find	acceptance	among	people	with	whom	you	feel	you
really	belong.

Seeming	to	bring	enhanced	popularity	(or	in	some	cases,	notoriety),	this
transit	will	likely	bring	the	breakthrough	you’ve	been	wishing	for	if	you	have
been	trying	to	get	attention	for	your	style	or	artistic	talents.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

These	transits	awaken	the	impulse	toward	self-preservation.	If	you	are
reasonably	safe	and	your	basic	needs	are	being	met,	this	will	be	a	transit	that
brings	forth	your	competitive	spirit.	You	may	gain	a	promotion	(or	more)	at
work.	Technological	and	interpersonal	skills	will	have	an	important	impact	on
the	direction	of	your	career.

Mars’s	symbolism	is	physical	and	sexual,	and	you	may	experience	new
feelings	or	transitions	in	these	areas	of	your	life.	You	may	suddenly	develop	an
interest	in	a	particular	sport,	and	your	level	of	sexual	awareness	or	activity	may
change.	The	combination	of	Uranus	and	Mars	can	also,	in	extreme	situations,
suggest	accidents,	as	changes	in	your	usual	patterns	meet	increased



suggest	accidents,	as	changes	in	your	usual	patterns	meet	increased
impulsiveness	and	recklessness.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

Jupiter	is	the	planet	of	wide-open	spaces,	both	of	place	and	of	mind.	Transiting
Uranus	in	aspect	to	Jupiter	awakens	your	desire	to	make	your	life	larger,	to
expand	your	perspective,	and	to	seek	meaning.	During	these	transits,	you	may
appear	to	others	to	be	rash	and	impulsive;	usually	it’s	closer	to	the	truth	to	say
that	you’ve	been	bored	or	confined	for	too	long,	and	now	that	you	have	a	chance
to	be	free,	you’ll	waste	no	time	in	taking	it.

You	may	travel	during	these	transits,	particularly	if	you’re	the	kind	of	person
who	normally	likes	staying	close	to	home.	You	may	decide	to	pursue	a	degree	or
certification,	or	you	could	have	a	religious	experience	that	involves	either
suddenly	converting	to	another	religion	or	leaving	a	church.	All	are	ways	of
making	yourself	more	free	by	breaking	down	self-imposed	limitations.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

Imagine	that	you	have	spent	half	your	life	in	prison,	then	suddenly	someone
shows	up	with	a	key	and	a	pardon	from	the	governor	and	sets	you	free.

Transits	of	Uranus	to	Saturn	can	be	among	the	most	exhilarating	you’ll
experience.	Saturn	represents	your	deepest	insecurities	and	fear	of	failure,	and
Uranus	transits	give	you	a	chance	to	see	what	life	would	be	like	without	them.
For	the	duration	of	the	transit,	you	get	to	feel	truly	free	from	the	bondage,	often
self-imposed,	that	has	made	you	feel	like	a	prisoner	in	your	own	life.

If	you	have	done	the	work	Saturn	asked	of	you,	such	as	pursuing	worthwhile
career	goals	or	other	ambitions	and	being	reputable	and	responsible	in	your
dealings,	then	transits	of	Uranus	leave	you	free	to	move	on	to	the	next	level	in
your	life.	Even	if	you	eventually	lose	some	of	the	sense	of	freedom	when	this
transit	is	finished,	your	eyes	will	have	been	opened.	Now	you	know	that	you	are
the	one	who	holds	the	key	to	your	own	prison	door.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

These	transits	are	milestones	in	your	evolving,	lifelong	journey	with	Uranus.
Look	for	events,	people,	and	circumstances	that	awaken	your	rebelliousness,
unconventionality,	and	desire	for	freedom.	(See	“Using	Uranus’s	Cycle”	on	page
68	for	more.)

You	have	reached	an	important	point	in	Uranus’s	cycle	of	individuation.	The
trines	and	sextiles	support	your	desire	to	break	away	from	conformity	and
explore	new	avenues;	the	squares	and	opposition	represent	moments	when,
through	conflict,	you	see	another	point	of	view	that	can	encourage	greater



through	conflict,	you	see	another	point	of	view	that	can	encourage	greater
personal	freedom.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

If	you	are	a	musician,	artist,	dancer,	mystic,	or	spiritual	seeker,	this	could	well
be	a	transit	that	catapults	you	into	the	limelight.	It	can	also	be	a	time	of
unexpected	loss	or	surprising	spiritual	awakening.	During	the	sextile	from
transiting	Uranus	to	my	natal	Neptune,	I	returned	to	musical	performance	after	a
long	hiatus,	started	my	professional	astrology	career,	and	found	I	had	a
completely	unexpected	psychic	talent.

Neptune	also	symbolizes	the	desire	to	retreat	from	life’s	difficulties,	often
through	potentially	damaging	escapes	such	as	alcohol	and	drugs.	Uranus’s
transits	to	Neptune	can	launch	you	on	such	a	hazardous	journey	but	can	also
awaken	you	to	the	destructive	nature	of	denial.	This	can	be	the	addict’s	“hitting
rock	bottom”	transit.	Uranus	is	the	liberating	planet,	and	if	you	wish	to	free
yourself	from	self-destructive	behavior	or	relationships,	Uranus’s	transits	to
Neptune	can	be	extremely	helpful.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

These	are	transits	during	which	you	may	rebel	in	ways	that	have	very	serious
permanent	consequences.	You	absolutely	refuse	to	submit	to	others’	control;
sometimes	it	is	an	obsession	(an	intense	relationship,	perhaps	an	addiction)	that
becomes	the	vehicle	for	liberating	yourself.	If	you	have	had	a	very	difficult	time
facing	the	darker	side	of	your	character,	this	transit	will	probably	change	that.
Self-awareness	becomes	the	key	to	breaking	free	from	self-defeating	behaviors
and	situations.

Groups	of	friends,	professional	networks,	or	societies	and	clubs	related	to
your	interests,	especially	those	associated	with	metaphysics,	technology,	or
science,	can	awaken	insecurities,	jealousies,	and	battles	for	control	and	power.
You	will	become	aware	of	the	extent	to	which	these	difficult	emotions	are
holding	you	back	from	making	the	sorts	of	beneficial	connections	that	will	help
you	succeed	in	the	future.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	NORTH	NODE

You	have	a	dream.	Some	days,	it	feels	truly	unreachable.	You	take	tentative
steps	toward	it,	but	something	stops	you,	or	there	are	disappointments,	or	you
end	up	stopping	yourself	just	short	of	your	destination.

The	Moon’s	North	Node	represents	the	dream,	the	brass	ring	that	seems	to
perpetually	elude	your	reach.	When	transiting	Uranus	makes	an	aspect	to	the
natal	North	Node,	you	reach	out	again,	hopeful	that	this	will	be	the	time	that	the
dream	comes	true.	And	surprisingly	often,	it	will.



dream	comes	true.	And	surprisingly	often,	it	will.
That’s	because	Uranus	is	a	rule	breaker	and	refuses	to	agree	with	your

internalized	beliefs	about	why	achieving	your	dreams	simply	isn’t	possible.	You
may	not	realize	the	entire	dream	in	precisely	the	way	that	you’d	imagined	you
would.	Sometimes	you	simply	grab	something	else	that’s	wonderful,	that	you
never	went	looking	for	but	that	presented	itself	nonetheless.	But	reaching	for	the
dream	means	you’re	getting	closer	to	it.	And	when	you	eventually	get	there,
Uranus	will	be	cheering	you	on.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	ASCENDANT

A	few	of	my	dearest	friends	have	been	older	ladies	who	were	unapologetically
blunt	and	a	little	bit	eccentric.	In	your	eighties	and	nineties,	you	can	get	away
with	saying	things	no	one	else	would	dare.	You’re	free	to	blurt	out	the
embarrassing	things	everyone	is	thinking	but	no	one	will	say.

That’s	how	I	see	Uranus’s	transits	to	the	Ascendant.	The	Ascendant
symbolizes	your	personality,	the	socially	sanctioned	mask	that	you	wear;	Uranus
liberates	you	from	your	inhibitions	and	lets	you	drop	the	mask.	But	this	comes
with	a	caveat:	To	be	more	yourself,	you	have	to	be	willing	to	sacrifice	your
comfort.	It	feels	good	to	hide	behind	a	mask	when	you	walk	into	a	party	where
you	don’t	know	many	people.	You	can	pretend	to	be	whatever	you	want	to	be,
and	no	one’s	the	wiser.	But	once	Uranus	opens	up	the	bottle	and	the	real	you
spills	out,	there’s	no	putting	it	back.

Transiting	Uranus	is	freeing.	You	get	to	be	the	feisty,	opinionated	senior	who
tells	it	like	it	is	because	really,	who	does	she	need	to	impress?	But	being	yourself
is	like	a	high-wire	trapeze	act;	it	takes	a	lot	of	courage	to	work	without	a	net.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MIDHEAVEN

Transiting	aspects	to	the	Midheaven	simultaneously	aspect	the	IC,	or	fourth
house	cusp.	Uranus’s	transits	to	this	axis	symbolize	opportunities	to	advance	in
your	career,	pursue	a	calling	at	odds	with	what	might	be	expected	of	you,	or
adjust	your	life	in	such	a	way	that	your	career	is	better	in	sync	with	your	family
life,	or	simply	with	the	demands	of	your	heart.

Rebelling	against	your	history	and	moving	in	the	direction	of	a	bright,	new
future	is	the	promise	of	transiting	Uranus	in	aspect	to	the	Midheaven.	This	could
be	a	transit	that	moves	you	away	from	the	family	business	and	into	a	business	of
your	own,	or	into	retirement.	You	might	move	or	make	major	changes	to	your
home.	It	could	be	a	time	of	difficulty	with	or	for	your	parents.	Overall,	these
transits	generally	place	you	at	odds	with	the	people	who	have	previously	been,
or	considered	themselves,	authorities	over	your	life.



chapter	6
TRANSITS	OF	NEPTUNE:	THE	TIDE

Planetary	Dossier:	NEPTUNE

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	165	years
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	approximately	14	years
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	approximately	2	years
STRONGEST	SIGN:	Pisces
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Virgo
KEYWORDS:	spirituality,	compassion,	unconditional	love,	empathy,	art,	psychic	sensitivity,
illness,	loss

I n	1976,	twenty-eight-year-old	Steven	Georgiou	nearly	drowned	off	the	coastof	Malibu,	California.	As	he	struggled	for	his	life,	he	recalls	shouting,	“Oh
God!	If	you	save	me,	I	will	work	for	you.”
Three	years	later,	on	November	22,	1979,	Steven	Georgiou	performed	his

final	concert	under	his	stage	name,	Cat	Stevens.	Georgiou	had	converted	to
Islam	the	previous	year,	adopting	the	name	Yusuf	Islam,	and	decided	to	leave
behind	a	thirteen-year	career	as	a	highly	successful	folk	singer/songwriter.	He
would	spend	the	next	twenty-seven	years	devoting	his	time	(and	royalties	from
his	recordings)	to	philanthropic	and	educational	causes.

The	story	of	Cat	Stevens’s	dramatic	transformation	from	pop	idol	to	Yusuf
Islam	spanned	the	three-year	period	when	transiting	Neptune	was	approaching	a
conjunction	with	his	natal	Jupiter.	Neptune	is	the	planet	that	baptizes	us	into	a
spiritual	view	of	the	world,	and	when	the	planets	of	spiritual	purpose	(Neptune)
and	religious	dogma	(Jupiter)	converge,	it’s	not	surprising	to	have	a	profound
religious	experience.	However,	the	baptism	and	religious	conversion	are	seldom
quite	so	literal!

Some	Neptune	transits	can	be	as	subtle	as	a	slow	leak	from	a	punctured	tire.
Perhaps	you	find	it	a	bit	hard	to	concentrate;	your	energy	and	motivation	are
low.	Other	Neptune	transits	can	act	like	a	tsunami,	washing	away	all	remnants	of
your	former	life	and	carrying	you	out	to	sea.	Your	Neptune	transits	may	not	be
quite	as	dramatic	as	Cat	Stevens’s,	but	they	will,	in	some	way,	wipe	clean	the



quite	as	dramatic	as	Cat	Stevens’s,	but	they	will,	in	some	way,	wipe	clean	the
slate	of	your	life.

THE	NATURE	OF	THE	BEAST
Transits	of	Neptune	are	like	a	trip	to	the	beach.	You’ve	set	up	your	beach	chair
and	umbrella,	your	radio,	book,	and	snacks	just	the	way	you	want	them.	Then
the	tide	comes	in,	washing	all	manner	of	lovely	and	unexpected	treasures	onto
the	sand:	sea	glass	and	bottles	and	license	plates	from	faraway	states	you	haven’t
visited.	But	when	the	tide	goes	out,	it	takes	some	things	with	it,	such	as	your
beach	towel,	your	iPod,	or	your	car	keys.

Neptune	tells	us,	“Look:	Life	brings	us	gifts,	glittering	treasures	with	beauty
we	never	could	have	imagined.	But	it	takes	things	from	us,	too.	That’s	the	way
of	the	sea.	That’s	the	way	of	life.”

During	Neptune’s	transits,	things	are	coming	in,	and	many	of	them	will	go
right	back	out.	“Don’t	get	attached”	is	Neptune’s	lesson—that	and	learning	to
sift	through	the	sand	after	the	tide	goes	out,	to	see	what	small,	glittering	jewels
might	have	been	left	behind.

In	the	midst	of	a	Neptune	transit,	the	temptation	to	escape	can	be	strong.
Eating	or	drinking	too	much,	watching	hours	of	TV,	even	reading	compulsively
can	all	be	ways	of	avoiding	reality.	You	may	feel	confused	and	fuzzy-headed,
and	your	physical	energy	may	be	low.	Astrologer	Caroline	Casey	likes	to
compare	Neptune	transits	to	the	familiar	experience	of	walking	into	a	room	and
realizing	you	have	no	idea	what	you	came	for!

While	transiting	Neptune	makes	aspects	to	your	natal	planets,	you’re	likely	to
experience	a	lack	of	focus	and	attention.	Forgetfulness	can	be	a	sign	that
Neptune	is	begging	for	an	end	to	denial	and	a	celebration	of	the	spiritual	values
that	bring	meaning	to	your	life.

USING	NEPTUNE’S	CYCLE
Because	Neptune	takes	an	incredibly	long	time	to	make	a	complete	tour	of	the
zodiac,	you	won’t	experience	its	full	cycle	in	your	lifetime.	You	can,	however,
reasonably	expect	to	experience	four	major	aspects	between	transiting	Neptune
to	your	natal	Neptune.

Neptune’s	cycle	is	characterized	by	evolving	spiritual	awareness.	The
catalysts	for	this	vary,	but	they	may	be	related	to	loss,	illness,	or	emotional
suffering.	Neptune’s	transits	are	often	associated	with	fogginess,	implying	you’ll
simply	sleepwalk	through	these	transits.	Certainly	the	way	forward	may	not	be
clear,	but	perhaps	that’s	because	Neptune	is	calling	you	to	walk	an	unfamiliar



clear,	but	perhaps	that’s	because	Neptune	is	calling	you	to	walk	an	unfamiliar
path—one	that	is	not	straight	and	unambiguous,	but	that	nevertheless	leads	to	a
place	you	need	to	visit.
THE	NEPTUNE	SEXTILE
Age	27
The	transiting	Neptune	sextile	to	natal	Neptune	happens	around	age	twenty-
seven,	just	a	year	or	two	before	Saturn’s	return.	The	sextile	is	an	opportunity
aspect;	this	is	an	age	when	you	may	choose	to	accept	or	reject	invitations	that
lead	to	a	clearer	understanding	of	yourself,	the	world,	and	your	place	in	it.	The
urge	to	hide	from	reality	has	ended	in	tragedy	for	more	than	one	twenty-seven-
year-old	(for	example,	Jim	Morrison,	Janis	Joplin,	and	Jimi	Hendrix,	all	of
whom	died	of	drug	overdoses).	To	navigate	this	transit	successfully,	take	the
opportunity	to	retreat	from	the	pressure	of	daily	life.	The	strain	of	the	impending
Saturn	return	(age	twenty-nine),	however,	can	make	it	difficult	to	step	off	the
merry-go-round	and	give	yourself	some	quiet	time.
THE	NEPTUNE	SQUARE
Age	42
This	is	one	of	the	major	transiting	aspects	that	converge	around	the	ages	of	forty-
one	and	forty-two,	which	astrologers	call	the	“midlife	crisis”	aspects.	Calling	for
a	rather	painful	reexamination	of	beliefs	that	you’ve	held	sacred,	this	transit	calls
faith	into	question.	Disillusionment	with	a	relationship,	a	mentor	or	spiritual
leader,	or	your	career	is	likely.	It	can	be	a	disorienting	transit,	but	it	is	healthy	to
examine	beliefs	in	light	of	new	information	or	life	experiences.
THE	NEPTUNE	TRINE	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE
Age	55
The	trine	does	not	force	a	crisis	of	faith,	but	you	may	find	yourself	having	to
make	peace	with	your	accomplishments	so	far	and	let	go	of	dreams	that	didn’t
come	true.	The	intense	quest	for	worldly	achievement	that	dominated	your
thirties	and	forties	is	beginning	to	lose	its	fascination.	Giving	something	back	to
your	profession	and	your	community	begins	to	seem	more	important	than	buying
a	second	home	or	a	new	car.	You	feel	that	it’s	time	to	put	your	life	into	a
spiritual	context,	and	this	can	be	a	time	of	exploring	religion,	philosophy,	or
metaphysics.	Art,	meditation,	and	travel	can	help	connect	you	with	a	feeling	of
being	part	of	something	greater	and	more	lasting.
THE	NEPTUNE	OPPOSITION
About	age	82
If	you’ve	navigated	the	previous	transiting	Neptune	aspects	gracefully	and



If	you’ve	navigated	the	previous	transiting	Neptune	aspects	gracefully	and
consciously,	you’ll	have	summited	your	personal	spiritual	mountain.	Your
wisdom	and	perspective	are	at	their	peak;	you	inspire	those	who	are	younger	and
less	sure	of	themselves.	But	there	are	still	lessons	to	learn	from	Neptune,	and	this
can	be	an	age	when	physical	and	mental	challenges	begin	to	play	a	larger	role	in
your	daily	life.	Acceptance	of	diminishing	physical	and	mental	vitality	leads	to
an	appreciation	of	the	spirit,	which	grows	stronger	as	other	faculties	weaken.

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	BY	SIGN
What	will	save	the	world?	What	sort	of	music	and	art	is	inspiring?	How	can	we
feel	less	alone?	Neptune’s	approximately	fourteen-year	passage	through	each
sign	refers	to	what	we	might	call	each	generation’s	“prevailing	dream”—as	well
as	its	potential	for	delusion.

The	years	of	Neptune’s	most	recent	and	next	transits	through	each	sign	are
given.	These	include	retrograde	periods	when	Neptune	might	back	into	a
previous	sign	for	a	short	time.

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ARIES	(1861–1875;	2025–2039)	

The	dream	of	Neptune	in	Aries	is	that	an	individual,	or	perhaps	a	nation,	can
save	the	world.	But	with	so	much	emphasis	on	the	individual,	territorialism	can
damage	humanity’s	innate	tendency	toward	building	societies	and	working
together.	Deluded	thinking	lacking	balance	and	insight	is	typical	of	Neptune	in
Aries,	leaving	some	reaching	for	weapons	to	solve	problems.
Disillusionment	for:	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Leo,	Sagittarius
Spiritual	questing	for:	Gemini,	Aquarius

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	TAURUS	(1874–1889;	2038–2052)	

The	dream	is	that	wealth,	luxury,	art,	and	all	the	monetary	rewards	of	the	good
life	will	lead	to	happiness	and	security.	But	these	transits	end	up	demonstrating
the	illusory	nature	of	security	and	the	societal	instability	that	follows	when
socioeconomic	classes	become	unbalanced.
Disillusionment	for:	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Virgo,	Capricorn



Spiritual	questing	for:	Cancer,	Pisces

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	GEMINI	(1888–1902;	2051–2066)	

The	dream	of	Neptune	in	Gemini	is	that	if	we	could	all	speak	the	same	language
and	get	from	place	to	place	easily,	all	of	our	problems	would	be	solved.	This	was
the	dream	of	L.L.	Zamenhof,	the	creator	of	Esperanto,	who	envisioned	a
universal	language	uniting	the	world.	The	first	volume	written	in	Esperanto	was
published	during	Neptune’s	last	transit	of	Gemini.	The	disillusionment	of	these
transits,	however,	is	the	awareness	that	language	and	physical	distance	are
usually	the	least	of	the	problems	that	separate	us	from	one	another.
Disillusionment	for:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Libra,	Aquarius
Spiritual	questing	for:	Leo,	Aries

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	CANCER	(1901–1915;	2065–2079)	

The	illusion	of	Neptune	in	Cancer	is	that	family	and	country	will	keep	us	safe
and	give	meaning	to	our	lives.	As	World	War	I	demonstrated	during	the	last
transit	of	Neptune	in	Cancer,	however,	safety	is	an	illusion.	A	benefit	of	this
transit,	though,	was	the	uniting	force	of	the	shared	war	experience,	making	some
countries	feel	more	like	families.
Disillusionment	for:	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Scorpio,	Pisces
Spiritual	questing	for:	Virgo,	Taurus

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	LEO	(1915–1929;	2078–2093)	

Neptune	in	Leo	dreams	of	life	as	a	nonstop	party	with	glitter,	glamour,	free-
flowing	champagne,	and	continuous	entertainment.	This	transit	was	a	golden	age
of	literature,	and	cinema	brought	the	magic	of	flickering	images	into	the
mainstream.	But	as	the	world	found	with	the	market	crash	of	1929,	eventually
the	party	comes	to	an	end—sometimes	abruptly.	The	reality	is	that	there	is	more
to	life	than	fun,	glamour,	and	indulgence.
Disillusionment	for:	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Sagittarius,	Aries



Spiritual	questing	for:	Libra,	Gemini

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	VIRGO	(1929–1943;	2092–2107)	

In	this	dream,	anyone	who	works	hard	and	practices	thrift	and	self-reliance	can
make	something	of	his	life.	But	during	Neptune’s	transit	through	Virgo	during
the	Great	Depression,	the	reality	was	that	many	couldn’t	find	work	and	had
nothing	left	to	sacrifice—until	many	sacrificed	their	lives	in	World	War	II.
Disillusionment	for:	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Capricorn,	Taurus
Spiritual	questing	for:	Scorpio,	Cancer
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	LIBRA	(1943–1955;	2105–2120)	

Peace	prevails,	economic	extremes	are	evened	out,	and	good	manners	triumph
over	all.	If	we	don’t	rock	the	boat,	all	will	be	well.	But	this	polite,	peaceful
equality	comes	at	the	price	of	vigorous	individualism	and	the	suppression	of
unpleasant	realities.
Disillusionment	for:	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Aquarius,	Gemini
Spiritual	questing	for:	Sagittarius,	Leo

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	SCORPIO	(1956–1970;	2119–2134)	

The	dream	of	Neptune	in	Scorpio	is	that	the	world	will	be	a	better	place	if	we	all
just	get	real.	If	we	speak	openly	and	bluntly	about	sex,	death,	and	anything	else
that’s	considered	taboo,	our	secrets	will	cease	to	control	us.	But	rob	people	of
their	sacred	illusions	without	offering	a	replacement,	and	you	end	up	with	many
bitter,	cynical	people.
Disillusionment	for:	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Pisces,	Cancer
Spiritual	questing	for:	Capricorn,	Virgo

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	SAGITTARIUS	(1970–1984;	2134–2148)	

Dreams	of	unlimited	possibilities	and	liberation	for	all	characterized	Neptune’s
transit	through	Sagittarius	in	the	1970s	and	early	1980s.	It	seemed	the	1960s	had
truly	introduced	a	new	era	of	love,	acceptance,	and	freedom.	The	transit	ended	in



truly	introduced	a	new	era	of	love,	acceptance,	and	freedom.	The	transit	ended	in
disillusionment	about	public	leaders	and	the	political	process,	and	a	terrible
illness	that	brought	the	era	of	free	love	to	a	screeching	halt.
Disillusionment	for:	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Aries,	Leo
Spiritual	questing	for:	Aquarius,	Libra

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	CAPRICORN	(1984–1998;	2148–2162)	

Neptune	in	Capricorn’s	dream	was	that	money	equals	success,	that	“greed	is
good”	(in	the	words	of	Wall	Street’s	Gordon	Gecko,	in	one	of	the	breakout	films
of	this	era),	and	that	free	trade	and	globalization	will	save	the	world.
Disillusionment	came	with	the	1987	stock	market	downturn	and	intensified	as
economic	opportunities	for	the	middle	class	began	to	dwindle.
Disillusionment	for:	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Taurus,	Virgo
Spiritual	questing	for:	Pisces,	Scorpio
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	AQUARIUS	(1998–2012;	2161–2176)	

Neptune	in	Aquarius	dreams	that	technology	will	save	the	world.	Automation
would	free	us	from	drudgery,	everyone	would	telecommute,	and	computers	and
other	technology	would	be	the	great	equalizer,	providing	opportunity	for	all.	But
the	most	recent	transit	ended	amid	concerns	about	income	inequality,	massive
unemployment,	and	technology	endangering	privacy.
Disillusionment	for:	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio
Spiritual	awakening	for:	Gemini,	Libra
Spiritual	questing	for:	Aries,	Sagittarius

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	PISCES	(2012–2025;	2175–2190)	

The	dream	of	Neptune	in	Pisces	is	that	the	whole	world	is	one,	nations	will	come
together	in	peace,	and	a	cure	is	found	for	all	of	the	world’s	ills.	But	this	transit
has	been	characterized	by	denial	of	inconvenient	reality,	increased	xenophobia,
and	a	culture	that	blames	the	disadvantaged	for	being	a	drain	on	society.
Disillusionment	for:	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius



Spiritual	awakening	for:	Cancer,	Scorpio
Spiritual	questing	for:	Taurus,	Capricorn

TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS
You	were	boiling	a	pot	of	stew	on	the	stove	before	you	got	a	phone	call.	When
you	hang	up	the	phone	and	turn	back	to	your	stew,	you’ve	got	a	sticky,	charred
mess	on	your	hands.	You	may	be	tempted	to	trash	the	whole	pot.	Instead,	fill	it
with	water	and	walk	away.	A	few	hours	later,	all	that	mess	will	slide	down	the
drain.

Neptune	is	as	powerful	as	water,	but	it	takes	time	to	perform	its	magic.	By
transit,	it	travels	only	2	degrees	in	an	entire	year.	This	means	that	a	transiting
Neptune	aspect	to	a	planet	or	angle	in	your	birth	chart	goes	on	for	a	very	long
time—at	least	a	couple	of	years.

We	make	messes	as	we	go	through	life,	messes	of	the	heart,	messes	of	the
mind,	messes	at	work,	even	our	houses	become	messes.	Periodically,	we	become
overwhelmed	by	it	all.	We	wonder	how	to	clean	the	slate	and	start	over.

Then	Neptune	comes	along	and	reminds	us:	Just	apply	Neptune	to	the	sticky
mess.	In	a	while,	it	will	all	slide	down	the	drain.

Neptune’s	transits	are	generally	experienced	most	strongly	for	about	two
years.	Its	conjunction,	square,	opposition,	and	quincunx	aspects	to	natal	planets
and	angles	emphasize	disillusionment,	denial,	confusion,	certain	kinds	of	illness,
and	difficulty	handling	daily	affairs.	All	of	this	is	possible	under	Neptune’s
transiting	trines	and	sextiles,	but	these	are	also	likely	to	bring	spiritual	awareness
through	religion,	art,	or	service	to	others.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

We	all	need	someone	we	can	look	up	to.	When	we’re	young,	it’s	usually	our
parents.	When	we’re	older,	we	might	look	to	those	who	have	made	great
achievements	in	their	professions,	who	are	successful	and	glamorous,	or	who
always	seem	to	be	ethical	and	kind.	Somewhere	out	there,	we	imagine,	is	a
savior.

When	transiting	Neptune	aspects	the	natal	Sun,	especially	by	square	or
opposition	aspect,	you	will	discover	that	these	people	have	feet	of	clay.	We	all
do.	Saints	do	not,	as	a	general	rule,	walk	the	earth.	Mistakes	are	made,
sometimes	in	public.	People	will	let	you	down—politicians,	religious	leaders,
the	guy	you	hired	to	rebuild	your	website.	Even	those	who	are	generally	kind
and	supportive	are	hiding	an	unattractive	side,	because	they’re	only	human.



It’s	fine	to	admire	people,	to	be	inspired	by	their	talents	and	their	uplifting
messages.	But	as	transiting	Neptune	aspects	your	Sun,	you	see	that	no	one	has
all	the	answers.	No	one	else	can	lead	you	to	the	promised	land.	Making
something	of	your	life	and	your	world	falls	on	your	shoulders.	You	have	to	be
your	own	hero	and	create	your	own	dream.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

We	are	creatures	of	habit.	We	have	needs	and	cravings	without	examining	them
too	closely.	We	perform	little	rituals	that	we	hardly	notice.	We	feel
uncomfortable	around	some	people	without	quite	knowing	why.	All	of	these
unconscious	habits	and	instincts	are	represented	in	your	chart	by	the	Moon.

It’s	no	wonder	that	the	people	closest	to	us	are	the	ones	who	connect	in	some
way	with	our	lunar	needs	and	habits.	We	project	the	Moon	onto	them	so	that	we
can	see	it,	objectively,	and	wrestle	with	it.

When	transiting	Neptune	makes	an	aspect	to	your	natal	Moon,	especially
when	you’re	young,	you	are	highly	likely	to	meet	someone	who	seems	to
embody	all	your	longings,	hopes,	and	dreams,	someone	whom	you	feel	you
absolutely	cannot	live	without.	It’s	an	alluring	idea	that	one	person	can	be
everything	to	another.	It’s	as	irresistible	as	falling	into	a	feather	bed	at	the	end	of
a	long,	tiring	day.

Of	course,	this	enchanting	creature	is	a	fellow	human.	The	day	will	come
when	reality	will	intervene.	This	is	when	Neptune’s	enchantment	often	gives
way	to	disillusionment—but	remember,	Neptune	also	offers	compassion	as	an
option.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

Neptune	is	like	a	sponge,	and	Mercury	is	a	happy	little	gatherer	of	words,
images,	and	experiences.	Now,	the	music	you	listen	to,	the	books	you	read,	the
movies	you	see	will	stay	with	you	for	a	long	time.	So	be	careful	about	what	you
take	in.

These	transits	can	be	troublesome	for	extremely	rational,	practical
personalities.	If	your	work	requires	sharp	analysis	and	logic,	you	will	be
frustrated.	But	these	transits	also	heighten	intuition	and	make	needed
breakthroughs	possible.

The	urge	is	strong	during	these	transits	to	make	music,	turn	words	into	poetry,
take	evocative	photographs,	or	paint	something.	Sometimes	you’ll	process
experiences	logically,	but	sometimes	you’ll	have	to	settle	for	a	wild	surmise.
“What	if?”	is	a	perfectly	reasonable	question	while	Neptune	transits	your	natal
Mercury;	answer	it	with	a	song,	an	image,	a	poem.



TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

Once,	when	transiting	Neptune	opposed	my	friend’s	natal	Venus,	she	fell	madly
in	love	with	a	completely	inappropriate	man.	So	deeply	ingrained	were	her
misconceptions	about	her	attractiveness	and	value	that	it	took	several
romantically	disastrous	years	for	her	to	learn,	once	and	for	all,	that	she	deserved
better	than	a	hopeless	relationship	with	a	man	who	was	a	mess.

Not	all	Neptune	transits	to	Venus	are	that	bad,	but	partnerships	(ruled	by
Venus)	often	do	take	a	beating.	Usually	it’s	because	one	of	you	entered	the
relationship	with	far	too	many	illusions	about	what	you	needed	or	what	was
going	on.	Sometimes	a	relationship	entered	in	good	faith	dissolves	because	one
or	both	partners	realize	they’ve	simply	changed,	irrevocably.

Typically	your	relationship	with	money	will	also	come	under	review.	When	I
had	a	trine	from	transiting	Neptune	to	natal	Venus,	I	let	go	of	a	source	of	income
that	had	been	a	mainstay	of	my	business	for	a	decade.	It	was	absolutely
terrifying	to	give	up	what	had	been	a	sizable	percentage	of	my	earnings,	but	I
found	that	by	the	end	of	the	year,	I	had	earned	just	as	much	as	the	year	before.
The	idea	that	I	couldn’t	afford	to	let	go	turned	out	to	have	been	an	illusion.

All	Venus	problems	begin	with	a	lack	of	faith	in	yourself.	Neptune	is
determined	to	heal	that.	At	the	end	of	its	transits	to	Venus,	you’ll	know	what
you’re	worth,	and	you’ll	let	go	of	what	drains	you	and	those	who	don’t
appreciate	you.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

Overall,	Mars	is	a	fairly	self-serving	planet.	Think	of	him	as	your	personal
bodyguard,	defending	your	physical	and	emotional	safety,	as	well	as	your	ego.
When	transiting	Neptune	makes	an	aspect	to	your	natal	Mars,	it’s	as	though
someone	has	slipped	him	a	mickey.

These	can	be	good	transits	for	putting	your	Mars	skills	to	work	for	a	good
cause.	You	might	devote	a	few	years	to	volunteering	for	your	favorite	charity	or
coaching	a	sports	team	of	underprivileged	kids.	These	can	be	effective	transits
for	bringing	a	spiritual,	artistic,	or	gentling	influence	into	your	work	or	physical
pursuits,	such	as	practicing	meditation	or	yoga,	or	getting	involved	in	dance.

What	these	transits	are	not	good	for	are	any	pursuits	requiring	strong	drive	or
intense	focus,	or	that	mostly	benefit	just	you.	If	you	try	to	make	great	strides	in
your	career	during	this	transit,	you’ll	likely	meet	with	failure.	It’s	better	to
dedicate	your	energy	to	pursuits	that	“give	back”	to	your	profession	or	that	build
a	sense	of	community.	If	you	decide	to	train	for	a	sporting	event	that	requires
strength	and	stamina,	you	are	likely	to	come	up	short	in	both	areas.	Instead,
cultivate	flexibility	and	know	when	to	step	back	and	take	a	break.



cultivate	flexibility	and	know	when	to	step	back	and	take	a	break.
These	don’t	have	to	be	negative	transits,	but	you	have	to	approach	them	in	the

right	spirit.	Now	is	not	the	time	for	you	to	achieve	spectacular	individual	goals.
Instead,	contribute	to	the	betterment	of	your	community,	your	society,	and	your
planet.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

There	are	more	things	in	heaven	and	earth,	Horatio,	Than	are	dreamt	of	in	your
philosophy.
—Hamlet	(1.5.167–8),	Hamlet	to	Horatio

Neptune	and	Jupiter	have	a	lot	in	common.	They	are	like	two	guys	who	run	in
the	same	circles	and	show	up	at	a	lot	of	the	same	meetings	and	parties,	whose
mutual	friends	say	things	like,	“Oh,	Jupiter,	you	must	be	great	friends	with
Neptune!”	A	bit	like	astrologers	and	astronomers,	in	fact.

But	there	are	fundamental	differences	between	them	that	can	make	transits	of
Neptune	to	natal	Jupiter	anything	from	awkward	to	disastrous.	Both	planets	are
associated	with	beliefs,	but	Jupiter	is	a	fan	of	theology	and	Neptune	prefers	faith.
Jupiter’s	beliefs	are	usually	based	in	doctrine,	research,	or	philosophy;	Neptune,
like	Hamlet,	understands	that	there	is	more	to	the	universe	than	can	be	explained
by	conventional	methods.

During	these	transits,	Neptune	plays	Hamlet,	struggling	to	convince
Horatio/Jupiter	that	life	holds	ineffable	mysteries	that	science,	academia,	and
religion	can’t	explain.	Neptune	celebrates	this—it	makes	life	more	confusing,
but	also	more	beautiful;	but	Jupiter	is	a	fan	of	knowing,	not	simply	believing.

During	these	transits,	expect	to	doubt	your	beliefs	and	be	forced	to	rely,
instead,	on	faith.	Doubt	is	brought	by	any	number	of	experiences—failure,
disillusionment,	illness,	grief,	even	visiting	a	different	country	for	the	first	time
and	realizing	how	limited	beliefs	are	when	they’re	based	on	a	narrow	experience
of	the	world.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

The	dance	between	Saturn	and	Neptune	is	similar	in	tone	to	that	moment	in	the
movie	The	Wizard	of	Oz	right	after	the	cyclone	ends,	when	Dorothy	opens	the
front	door	of	her	house	and	the	black-and-white	imagery	of	her	life	in	Kansas	is
magically	transformed	to	lush	color.	Saturn	sees	things	in	black	and	white,	and
while	that	can	be	starkly	beautiful,	it	can	be	monotonous,	too.	When	you’ve
overdosed	on	Saturn,	it	can	be	nice	to	have	an	injection	of	Neptune—a	sort	of
organic	hallucinogenic	experience	that	makes	everything	prettier	and	more



interesting	for	a	while.
But	the	spiritual	promise	of	Neptune	is	not	about	escape	or	inoculating

yourself	from	everyday	life.	Rather,	it’s	the	promise	that	beauty	can	be	seen	in
the	starkest	of	landscapes.	Grace	can	be	mined	from	the	dreariest	and	most
mundane	daily	tasks.

Saturn’s	world	of	jobs,	school,	career	success,	reputation,	and	authority	is	so
formidable	that	it	constantly	threatens	Neptune’s	imaginative	connection	with
the	world	of	spirit.	You	can	feel	this	imbalance	building	when	you	find	yourself
forgetting	names,	facts,	and	details;	when	you	discover	yourself	growing
absolutely	enraged	toward	people	who	are	helpless	victims;	when	you	lose	your
temper	when	a	friend	is	late	for	your	lunch	date.	The	tyranny	of	time,	schedules,
and	minutiae	is	the	tyranny	of	Saturn.	Neptune	transits	are	designed	to	depose
the	tyrant	and	make	your	world	a	little	lovelier.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

There’s	a	reckless,	rebellious,	restless	place	inside	you	that	astrologers	associate
with	the	planet	Uranus.	Even	the	mildest	person	has	a	bone	to	pick	with	some
part	of	the	status	quo.	That	same	rebellious	side	is	related	to	the	feeling	you
might	have	when	you	show	up	alone	to	a	party,	like	a	lonely	misfit.	Both	are
Uranian	traits.

Neptune’s	transits	to	Uranus	tend	to	be	confusing	and	painful.	There	is	a
stronger-than-usual	sense	of	the	ways	that	you	don’t	quite	fit	in	with	your	peers.
You	don’t	want	to	lose	the	qualities	that	make	you	unique,	but	it	hurts	to	feel
like	an	outcast.

While	Neptune	transits	this	place	in	your	chart,	he	invites	you	to	stop
struggling	so	hard	to	be	one	of	a	kind	and	instead	go	with	the	flow.	Often
Neptune	offers	something	such	as	music,	art,	dance,	spiritual	questing,	or	(less
positively)	drugs	and	alcohol	as	a	means	to	feeling	less	alone.	The	objective	is	to
open	yourself	up	to	being	a	conduit	for	collective	spiritual	energy,	but	you	have
to	choose	your	escapes	wisely	during	these	transits	and	be	a	little	wary	about	the
opportunities	that	offer	a	sense	of	belonging.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

These	transits	are	milestones	in	your	evolving,	lifelong	Neptune	journey	of
spiritual	growth.	Look	for	events,	people,	and	circumstances	that	awaken	your
compassion	and	humility.	(See	“Using	Neptune’s	Cycle”	on	page	81	for	more.)
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

Are	you	in	control	of	your	life?	If	you	answered	yes,	you’ve	probably	got	a	very
strong	Pluto	in	your	chart.	Sure,	we	can	control	plenty.	But	there	are	absolutely



strong	Pluto	in	your	chart.	Sure,	we	can	control	plenty.	But	there	are	absolutely
things	that	we	can’t	manage,	and	eventually	we	will	confront	them.	These
transits	usually	bring	a	couple	of	them	your	way.

You	can	reliably	control	the	way	you	choose	to	see	and	react	to	things.	These
transits	help	by	leading	you	to	seek	a	spiritual	context	for	what	can’t	be
controlled.	How	can	troubles	help	you	grow,	particularly	in	compassion	for
others?	How	can	you	train	your	mind	and	spirit	to	transcend	pain,	fear,	or	rage?

Sometimes	during	these	transits,	you’ll	fantasize	about	escaping	your	life	and
starting	over,	someplace	far	away,	perhaps	under	an	assumed	name.	Practically
speaking,	that’s	not	an	option	for	most	of	us.	But	seeking	meaning	in	hardship
and	cultivating	faith	in	that	meaning	is	an	option	available	to	everyone.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	LUNAR	NODES

The	Lunar	Nodes	represent	the	tension	between	comfortable,	familiar	patterns
(South	Node)	and	the	drive	to	reach	toward	something	challenging	yet	rewarding
(North	Node).	During	transiting	Neptune’s	aspects	to	the	Lunar	Nodes,	you’re
faced	with	a	choice	between	floating	along	with	what’s	safe	and	actively	sailing
your	ship	into	unknown	waters.

When	you	are	called	to	a	particular	course	of	action,	to	remake	your	life	in	a
significant	way,	fear	is	a	completely	reasonable	response.	Pursuing	a	meaningful
life	can	be	a	lonely	business.	During	these	transits,	faith	is	your	greatest	ally.
You	won’t	be	certain	that	what	you’re	doing	will	work	out.	All	you	can	be
certain	of	is	that	for	you,	at	this	moment	in	time,	it	feels	like	exactly	the	right
path	to	take.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	ASCENDANT

In	the	Ascendant,	we	find	all	the	smoke	and	mirrors	and	sleight-of-hand	tricks
you’ve	mastered	to	influence	how	the	world	sees	and	reacts	to	you.	When
Neptune	aspects	this	point,	it’s	as	though	a	tidal	wave	has	crashed	ashore,
washing	away	all	the	footsteps	you	had	left	in	the	sand—you	can	no	longer
retrace	your	steps	home.

Your	personality	is	fluid	now,	like	molten	metal	assumes	any	shape	it	comes
in	contact	with.	You’re	re-creating	yourself.	It	doesn’t	really	feel	like	that,	of
course.	It	just	feels	as	though	all	your	old	tricks	no	longer	work,	leaving	you
naked	and	exposed,	washed	as	smooth	as	a	piece	of	sea	glass.	A	series	of	crises
buffet	you	like	fierce	waves,	knocking	you	down	as	soon	as	you	stand	up.
Instead	of	struggling	so	hard	to	keep	your	head	above	water,	plunge	deeper	into
the	sea.	That’s	the	only	way	to	wipe	the	slate	clean	and	to	keep	you	from
hardening	too	soon	into	the	wrong	shape.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MIDHEAVEN



TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MIDHEAVEN

Once,	looking	through	an	old	trunk,	my	mother	found	one	of	my	school	projects
from	second	grade,	an	outline	of	what	I	wished	for	the	future.	“What	do	you
want	to	be	when	you	grow	up,	and	why?”	asked	one	of	the	questions.	I	had
responded,	“A	secretary,	because	they	type	so	fast.”

At	the	time	mom	unearthed	evidence	of	my	childish	dream,	I	in	fact	was	an
executive	secretary	(and	a	very	fast	typist).	But	I’d	had	no	memory	whatsoever
of	wanting	to	do	that	in	second	grade.	I	felt	my	career	choice	had	all	been	a
mistake,	something	to	fall	back	on	until	I	could	be	a	musician	or	an	astrologer.

I	was	born	with	Virgo	on	the	Midheaven,	the	career	angle	of	the	chart.	I
suppose	you	could	say	it	was	my	destiny	to	have	a	career	that	involved
organization	and	helping	others.	But	there	are	a	lot	of	ways	to	accomplish	that.	I
wasn’t	doomed	to	remain	in	a	job	I	disliked	just	because	my	second-grade	self
had	been	impressed	by	Mr.	Drysdale’s	secretary	on	The	Beverly	Hillbillies.

A	couple	of	years	later,	as	Neptune	made	a	supportive	trine	aspect	to	my
Midheaven,	I	left	my	secretarial	job	to	be	an	astrologer,	and	I	never	looked	back.

When	Neptune	makes	an	aspect	to	your	Midheaven,	you	may	be	disillusioned
with	your	career.	It’s	time	to	dream	a	new	dream	about	what	you	want	to	be
when	you	grow	up—no	matter	how	old	you	are!



chapter	7
TRANSITS	OF	PLUTO:	THE	UNDERTOW

Planetary	Dossier:	PLUTO

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	about	248	years
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	varies;	between	14	and	30	years
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	varies,	but	at	least	several	years
STRONGEST	SIGN:	Scorpio
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Taurus
KEYWORDS:	power,	control,	transformation,	obsession,	hidden	things,	dictatorships,	generation,
regeneration,	and	degeneration

E very	astrologer’s	favorite	keyword	for	Pluto	seems	to	be	transformation.	But
I	consider	that	a	euphemism,	a	consolation	prize	for	enduring	Pluto’s
transits.	“Oh,	it’ll	be	great.	You’ll	be	transformed!”	But	who	among	us	asks

the	universe	for	transformation?	We	want	money	and	sex	and	acclaim!
It	is	not	inaccurate	to	say	we’re	transformed	by	Pluto’s	transits.	It’s	just	a	tad

incomplete.	That’s	because	humans	are	fairly	stubborn	creatures,	and	it	generally
takes	some	fairly	dramatic	life	experiences	to	lead	us	kicking	and	screaming
toward	personal	evolution.	We’d	like	the	ends,	but	the	means	can	be	daunting.

Some	people	are	hardwired	to	cope	with	Pluto.	The	late	Maya	Angelou,	born
with	the	Sun,	Moon,	Mercury,	Venus,	and	Jupiter	all	in	close	aspect	to	Pluto,
knew	a	little	something	about	transformation.	During	her	eighty-six	years	on	the
planet,	she	transformed	herself	into	an	acclaimed	poet,	author,	civil	rights
activist,	and	one	of	the	world’s	most	admired	women.

But	that’s	not	the	whole	story.	There	was	her	parents’	divorce,	her	sexual
assault	at	the	hands	of	her	mother’s	boyfriend	at	the	age	of	eight.	There	was	the
perpetrator’s	murder	after	Angelou	had	identified	him	for	the	crime.	There	was
agonizing	guilt	as	she	blamed	herself,	and	specifically	her	voice,	for	his	death.
There	were	five	silent	years	when	she	stopped	speaking	altogether,	lest	others
die.

On	the	road	to	her	eventual	career,	Angelou	married	several	times,	bore	a



beloved	child,	and	worked	at	various	times	as	a	calypso	singer,	a	prostitute	and
madam,	a	dancer,	and	the	first	black	woman	cable	car	conductor	in	San
Francisco.

She	had	fascinating—and	devastating—stories	to	tell.	And	in	1968,	with
transiting	Pluto	opposed	her	natal	Mercury,	the	planet	of	storytellers,	she	was
offered	an	opportunity	to	tell	them.	Suffering	a	deep	depression	following	the
murder	of	her	friend	Reverend	Martin	Luther	King	Jr.,	Angelou	resisted	at	first.
But	when	her	memoir	I	Know	Why	the	Caged	Bird	Sings	was	published	the
following	year,	it	launched	a	brilliant	literary	career.	More	importantly,	it
demonstrated	that	the	girl	who	had	once	feared	the	power	of	her	voice	was	now
in	full	command	of	her	own	story.	Her	distinctive	work	and	her	self-possession
inspired	others	for	the	next	forty-five	years.

Pluto’s	transiting	aspects	are	not	for	the	faint	of	heart.	Sometimes	bad	things
happen;	sometimes	it’s	just	a	blue	period;	other	times,	fantastic	success	presents
itself.	Fearing	what	Pluto	might	bring	is	unproductive.	It’s	better	to	focus	on
what	Pluto	wants	from	you,	which	is	always,	and	above	all,	honesty.	Pluto’s
transits	reveal	what	we’re	made	of,	good	and	bad.	They	give	us	no	choice	but	to
become	more	than	we	thought	we	could	be—stronger,	braver,	more	candid,
more	authentic	versions	of	ourselves.	Pluto	will	stand	for	nothing	less.

THE	NATURE	OF	THE	BEAST
Astrologer	Caroline	Casey	has	described	Pluto’s	transits	as	having	three	phases.
The	first	is	the	total	disruption	of	your	world.	The	second	is	not	knowing.	And
the	third	is	the	emergence	of	the	authentic	self.

In	the	meantime,	the	valley.	The	cave.	The	craving	to	withdraw	from	the
world	during	a	Pluto	transit	is	very	strong.	To	the	extent	that	you	can,	honor	it.
You	are	retreating	to	adjust	to	what	has	happened	to	you.	Grief	is	a	physical
process	as	well	as	an	emotional	one,	and	this	is	never	more	true	than	when	you
are	grieving	the	death	of	immediate	blood	relations.	Give	yourself	time	and
space	to	come	to	terms	with	your	situation.

TRANSITING	PLUTO	BY	SIGN
Pluto	takes	the	longest	of	any	planet	to	make	a	full	transit	of	the	zodiac—about
248	years.	Its	orbit	is	irregular,	and	it	spends	a	lot	more	time	in	some	signs	than
in	others.	You’ll	experience	Pluto’s	transit	of	between	four	and	six	signs	of	the
zodiac	during	your	lifetime.

Like	Uranus	and	Neptune,	Pluto	is	in	a	single	sign	for	so	long	that	everyone
born	in	the	same	fourteen-to-thirty-year	period	will	share	the	same	Pluto	sign.



born	in	the	same	fourteen-to-thirty-year	period	will	share	the	same	Pluto	sign.
More	than	any	other	planet,	Pluto	seems	to	characterize	entire	generations,	from
the	Greatest	Generation	to	the	baby	boomers	to	generation	X.	Each	generation
faces	its	own	distinguishing	challenge,	shepherding	the	world	through	a	massive
sea	change	of	cultural	mores,	political	trends,	technological	advancements,	and
societal	values.

The	years	of	Pluto’s	most	recent	and	next	transits	through	each	sign	are
given.	These	include	retrograde	periods	when	Pluto	might	back	into	a	previous
sign	for	a	short	time.

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ARIES	(1822–1851;	2066–2097)	

Aries	is	the	sign	of	rugged	individualism,	courage,	and	pioneer	spirit,	and	these
transits	further	progress	and	exploration	at	all	costs.	Pluto’s	previous	transit	in
Aries	in	the	early	nineteenth	century	coincided	with	the	settlement	of	the
perilous	American	West,	the	Industrial	Revolution,	and	the	introduction	of
Darwin’s	theory	of	evolution.	But	while	Pluto	in	Aries	furthered	progress	in
industry,	transportation,	and	exploration,	it	also	reveals	a	shadow	side	of
impulsive,	self-serving	violence,	genocide,	and	exploitation.
Reality	check	for:	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn
Empowerment	for:	Leo,	Sagittarius
Deep	insights	for:	Gemini,	Aquarius

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	TAURUS	(1851–1884;	2095–2129)	

Spanning	the	golden	age	of	agriculture	through	the	Gilded	Age	of	the	late
nineteenth	century,	this	era	saw	enormous	wealth	and	ease	for	privileged
landowners.	It	often	came,	however,	at	the	cost	of	others’	freedom.	For	example,
the	Indian	Mutiny	resulted	in	transfer	of	rule	to	the	British	crown,	settlers	in
New	Zealand	waged	a	war	over	property	rights	against	the	indigenous	Māori,
and	America	went	through	civil	war	and	bloody	reconstruction	to	settle	the
matter	of	whether	the	privilege	of	the	few	justified	the	misery	of	many.
Reality	check	for:	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius
Empowerment	for:	Virgo,	Capricorn
Deep	insights	for:	Cancer,	Pisces

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	GEMINI	(1882–1913)	



Automation	enabled	the	widespread	adoption	of	the	telephone	and	automobile,
transforming	travel,	communication,	and	commerce.	Technological	advances	led
to	the	gradual	introduction	of	electricity	in	homes.
Reality	check	for:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces
Empowerment	for:	Libra,	Aquarius
Deep	insights	for:	Leo,	Aries

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	CANCER	(1912–1939)	

These	years	saw	World	War	I,	a	global	flu	pandemic,	and	the	Great	Depression.
Deteriorating	economic	conditions	contributed	to	the	rise	of	fascism	and,
eventually,	World	War	II.	This	era	was	characterized	by	a	fight	for	the	survival
and	security	of	clan	and	country.
Reality	check	for:	Cancer,	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries
Empowerment	for:	Scorpio,	Pisces
Deep	insights	for:	Virgo,	Taurus

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	LEO	(1937–1958)	

This	era	included	World	War	II,	the	birth	of	the	nuclear	age,	and	the	baby	boom.
The	generation	born	during	these	years	rode	the	wave	of	a	mighty	youth	culture
that	emphasized	the	supremacy	of	the	individual	and	eternal	youthfulness.
Negatively,	the	baby	boomers	have	been	branded	as	self-absorbed	and	reluctant
to	accept	conventional	adult	responsibilities	and	the	inevitability	of	aging.
Reality	check	for:	Leo,	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus
Empowerment	for:	Sagittarius,	Aries
Deep	insights	for:	Libra,	Gemini

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	VIRGO	(1956–1972)	

These	years	saw	the	rise	of	the	middle	class,	good	conditions	for	working
people,	social	programs	for	the	elderly	and	the	poor,	efforts	to	correct	lingering
racial	inequalities,	and	dawning	awareness	of	environmental	issues.	However,	a
disastrous	war	in	Vietnam,	cultural	divides	between	generations,	and
disillusionment	with	government	were	also	profound	influences	on	this
generation.



Reality	check	for:	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini
Empowerment	for:	Capricorn,	Taurus
Deep	insights	for:	Scorpio,	Cancer
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	LIBRA	(1971–1984)	

The	challenge	of	negotiating	fair	and	equitable	resolutions	to	conflicts,	including
wars,	political	scandals,	and	the	escalating	battle	for	gender	equality,	defined	this
transit.	Divorce	became	increasingly	common	and	would	influence	an	entire
generation	of	children	to	view	divorce	as	almost	inevitable.	Pluto,	planet	of
power,	in	Venus-ruled	Libra,	a	sign	closely	associated	with	women,	saw	the
election	of	Great	Britain’s	first	woman	prime	minister,	Margaret	Thatcher,	as
well	as	the	first	woman	in	space	(Sally	Ride).
Reality	check	for:	Libra,	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer
Empowerment	for:	Aquarius,	Gemini
Deep	insights	for:	Sagittarius,	Leo

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	SCORPIO	(1983–1995)	

The	AIDS	pandemic	entered	mainstream	consciousness	in	the	early	1980s,
serving	as	a	dreadful	punctuation	mark	at	the	end	of	the	1970s	“free	love”	era.
Never	before	had	sex	carried	such	a	death	sentence.	Culture	wars	that	divided
Americans	on	sexuality,	abortion,	and	religion	emerged.	Videos	and	cable
television	brought	previously	taboo	subjects	to	a	wider	audience.
Reality	check	for:	Scorpio,	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo
Empowerment	for:	Pisces,	Cancer
Deep	insights	for:	Capricorn,	Virgo
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	SAGITTARIUS	(1995–2008)

Sagittarius	is	the	sign	of	world	travel,	and	this	transit	was	defined	by	the
explosion	of	the	Internet	and	pervasive	globalism,	which	changed	the	way	we
viewed	the	world	and	our	place	in	it.	Maintaining	privacy	became	challenging.
Sagittarius	also	rules	beliefs.	This	transit	also	saw	the	rise	of	religious
fanaticism,	mistrust	of	those	who	are	different,	and	extreme	polarization	between
groups	with	different	political	opinions.
Reality	check	for:	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo



Empowerment	for:	Aries,	Leo
Deep	insights	for:	Aquarius,	Libra

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	CAPRICORN	(2008–2024)	

I’m	writing	this	book	six	years	into	Pluto’s	transit	of	Capricorn,	a	sign	of
government	and	big	business,	and	the	story	of	this	transit	is	still	being	written.
So	far,	it	has	been	characterized	by	a	devastating	financial	collapse,	exposure	of
governmental	secrecy	and	spying,	a	U.S.	Supreme	Court	decision	that	granted
corporations	the	right	of	unlimited	political	campaign	contributions,	and	a
widespread	distrust	of	government	and	corporations.
Reality	check	for:	Capricorn,	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra
Empowerment	for:	Taurus,	Virgo
Deep	insights	for:	Pisces,	Scorpio
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	AQUARIUS	(1778–1798;	2023–2044)	

The	last	transit	of	Pluto	in	Aquarius	corresponded	with	the	war	for	American
Independence	and	its	establishment	as	a	republic,	and	the	era	ended	with	the
French	Revolution.	It	seems	likely	that	the	next	Pluto	in	Aquarius	transit	will
find	nations	in	rebellion	and	transition	as	well.	After	the	Pluto	in	Capricorn
transit,	seemingly	destined	to	deconstruct	existing	societal	structures,	it	will	be
time	to	reinvent	society	and	nations.
Reality	check	for:	Aquarius,	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio
Empowerment	for:	Gemini,	Libra
Deep	insights	for:	Aries,	Sagittarius

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	PISCES	(1797–1823;	2043–2068)	

The	last	transit	of	Pluto	through	Pisces	in	the	first	quarter	of	the	nineteenth
century	saw	the	Napoleonic	Wars	and	the	rise	of	the	British	and	Russian
empires,	mass	migration,	and	significant	advances	in	science	and	transportation.
Pisces	is	the	sign	associated	with	immigrants	and	minorities,	so	it’s	likely
another	shift	in	the	world’s	population	will	occur	with	Pluto	in	this	sign,
possibility	as	a	consequence	of	climate	change,	disease,	or	contamination.
Reality	check	for:	Pisces,	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius



Empowerment	for:	Cancer,	Scorpio
Deep	insights	for:	Taurus,	Capricorn

USING	PLUTO’S	CYCLE
Pluto’s	cycle	is	characterized	by	awareness	and	acceptance	of	reality.	The
catalysts	for	this	vary,	but	they	may	be	related	to	loss,	illness,	emotional
suffering,	or	dramatic	shifts	in	societal	paradigms.

Pluto	has	a	fearsome	reputation,	and	it	is	well	deserved.	Looking	back	on	the
most	dramatic	milestones	of	your	lifetime,	you	will	find	Pluto	nearby.	Not	every
Pluto	transit	brings	disaster;	indeed,	there	are	sometimes	spectacular	dividends
when	Pluto	comes	for	a	visit.	But	if	the	natal	planet	is	poorly	aspected,	these	can
honestly	be	some	of	the	most	challenging	transits	of	your	life.

Because	Pluto	takes	so	long	to	complete	a	tour	of	the	zodiac,	you	won’t
experience	its	full	cycle	in	your	lifetime.	You	can,	however,	reasonably	expect
to	experience	the	sextile	of	transiting	Pluto	to	natal	Pluto,	the	square,	the	trine,
and	perhaps	the	opposition.	Pluto	spends	much	longer	in	some	signs	(twenty-
seven	years	in	Cancer!)	than	in	others	(only	twelve	in	Scorpio,	thank	goodness),
so	the	age	when	you	have	these	transiting	aspects	will	be	the	same	as	other
people	born	within	a	few	years	of	you,	but	could	be	quite	different	from	people
of	other	generations.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	SEXTILE	NATAL	PLUTO
About	Age	25
The	transiting	Pluto	sextile	to	natal	Pluto	offers	opportunities,	if	you’re	willing
to	do	a	little	work.	If	not,	these	can	be	lost	years,	when	you	can	still	afford	to
mope	a	bit	and	deny	the	fact	that	you’re	getting	older.	That	option	disappears	in
a	few	years,	when	your	Saturn	return	gets	under	way.	If	you	are	willing	to	work,
though—and	at	this	age,	that	usually	includes	not	putting	up	with	poor	treatment
from	others—you’ll	be	in	a	better	position	to	feel	in	control	of	your	life	at	the
Pluto	square,	about	a	decade	from	now.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	SQUARE	NATAL	PLUTO
Between	Midthirties	and	Midforties
This	is	the	opening	shot	fired	in	the	battle	of	midlife.	Sometimes	there	are
devastating	external	events	that	bring	about	a	crisis	and	a	heightened	awareness
of	mortality—the	death	of	an	elder,	the	end	of	a	marriage,	a	serious	illness,	a
child	leaving	the	nest.	For	some,	the	Pluto	square	rolls	in	like	a	dark,	wet	fog
that	saps	the	color	and	energy	out	of	life.	It’s	hard	to	get	out	of	bed;	everything



seems	pointless,	and	a	dull	depression	sets	in.	At	the	Pluto	square,	we	cast	a
cold,	fishy	eye	at	our	youthful	dreams,	ideals,	and	ambitions	and	decide	we’ve
been	fools	to	think	any	of	it	meant	anything.	It’s	a	grim,	difficult	rite	of	passage
that	often	leads	people	to	do	foolish	things,	to	prove	to	themselves	they’re	still
alive.

Eventually	the	transit	passes,	the	clouds	part,	and	the	sun	begins	to	shine
again.	But	there	will	always	be	a	little	scar	where	the	shrapnel	entered.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	TRINE	NATAL	PLUTO
Early	Fifties
You	are	at	the	peak	of	your	personal	power.	If	you’ve	positioned	yourself	in	a
life,	career,	and	relationships	that	are	honest	and	supportive	of	your	true	self,	you
will	impress	the	world	during	this	transit.	You	will	feel	respected	and
appreciated.

If,	on	the	other	hand,	you	managed	to	squelch	the	astrological	noise	of	the
midlife	crisis,	this	transit	is	very	likely	to	be	the	one	that	brings	you	to	your
knees.	The	square	is	not	subtle,	and	if	you	are	very	strong	and	very	stubborn,
you	may	be	able	to	dig	in	your	heels	and	weather	the	storm.	But	the	trine	sneaks
up	on	you.	The	birthday	cards	ribbing	you	about	getting	older	actually	carry	a
sting.	You’re	haunted	by	the	thought	of	everything	you’ve	missed	and	all	the
opportunities	that	passed	you	by.

There	is	only	one	way	out	of	the	situation:	Surrender.	Let	yourself	be
changed.	Your	life	is	not	over	yet,	and	if	you	can	let	yourself	live	more	honestly
and	authentically,	what	is	left	will	be	much	more	worth	living.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	OPPOSED	NATAL	PLUTO

Because	of	Pluto’s	erratic	orbit,	not	everyone	will	live	long	enough	to	see
transiting	Pluto	in	opposition	to	natal	Pluto.	If	you	do,	however,	it	will	be	in	your
eighties	and	can	be	a	powerful	transit.	You	no	longer	have	anything	to	hide;	you
have	no	falseness	about	you.	Your	life	is	entirely	honest.	You	are	facing
mortality,	but	you	aren’t	afraid,	because	what	frightens	us	most	is	not	what	the
world	can	throw	at	us	or	take	from	us,	but	the	things	we	try	to	hide	from
ourselves.	At	this	point	in	your	life,	you	conceal	nothing,	so	there	is	nothing	to
fear.

TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS	AND
ANGLES
Pluto	is	the	slowest	moving	of	all	transiting	planets.	Some	years	his	net
movement	is	actually	minus	a	degree	or	two.	If	Pluto	makes	a	major	transiting



movement	is	actually	minus	a	degree	or	two.	If	Pluto	makes	a	major	transiting
aspect	to	a	planet	or	angle	of	your	chart,	find	a	way	to	make	peace	with	it,
because	he	will	be	staying	for	a	good	long	time,	spending	a	couple	of	years
within	close	orb	of	the	aspect.

Pluto’s	conjunction,	square,	opposition,	and	quincunx	aspects	to	natal	planets
are	times	when	it	can	be	hard	to	see	the	light	at	the	end	of	the	tunnel.	You	feel
like	a	fish	on	a	hook,	wiggling	and	thrashing	without	hope	of	escape.	The	same
can	happen	under	Pluto’s	transiting	trines	and	sextiles,	but	these	can	also	bring	a
sense	that	you	have	an	opportunity	to	achieve	a	more	profound	understanding	of
yourself	and	your	motivations,	and	perhaps	empowerment.

Much	depends	on	the	relationship	between	natal	Pluto	and	the	natal	planet
being	aspected.	If,	for	instance,	you	have	a	square	aspect	between	the	natal	Sun
and	natal	Pluto,	transiting	Pluto’s	aspects	to	the	natal	Sun	will	usually	create	a
much	stronger	reaction.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

Pluto’s	terrible	reputation	makes	us	fearful	when	we	see	him	lumbering	down
the	ecliptic	toward	us.	Sometimes	difficult	transits	of	Pluto	converge	with
difficult	outward	events	in	your	life;	this	is	most	often	the	case	when	Pluto	is
close	to	an	angle	of	your	chart	at	your	birth,	or	in	difficult	aspect	to	the	angles.
Just	as	often,	Pluto	is	experienced	on	a	quieter,	more	psychological	level.	When
Pluto	connects	with	the	natal	Sun,	it	can	feel	as	though	the	color	and	contrast	are
turned	down	on	the	television	of	your	life.	It	can	be	difficult	to	feel	very
engaged,	to	find	meaning	or	purpose.

We	associate	depression	with	Saturn,	but	I	think	of	Saturn	as	the	state	of
being	in	pain.	Depression,	on	the	other	hand,	deadens	feeling.	A	small	burn
stings	like	hell	for	days.	A	deep,	life-threatening	burn	may	not	cause	any
sensation	because	all	the	nerves	are	dead.	That’s	the	kind	of	burn	Pluto	gives	us.

Being	a	Jupiterian	type	myself,	I	assume	the	universe	has	something	in	mind
for	us	with	every	transit,	rather	than	just	enjoying	our	suffering.	For	Pluto’s
transits,	it’s	the	chance	to	rid	ourselves	of	falseness.	It’s	the	chance	to	rid
ourselves	of	what	we	no	longer	need.	When	Pluto	connects	with	the	Sun,	the
dead,	outgrown	parts	of	the	self	are	burned	away.	Letting	go	of	waste	is
cleansing.	Having	nothing	to	hide	is	empowering.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

The	Moon	is	astrological	shorthand	for	security,	a	word	that	can	evoke	images	of
an	elderly	woman	snug	in	her	rocking	chair,	crocheted	blanket	on	her	lap	and	cat
dozing	at	her	feet.	If	you	are	young,	adventurous,	and	even	a	bit	reckless,
security	may	not	speak	to	you	much.



security	may	not	speak	to	you	much.
Let	me	reframe	the	idea	of	the	Moon	as	a	symbol	of	what	and	whom	you	rely

on.	Even	as	you	gallivant	boldly	through	life,	making	your	mark,	still	there	is
something	you	rely	on.	It	may	be	a	loving	family	waiting	for	you	back	home,
money	in	the	bank,	or	your	physical	and	mental	health.	Perhaps	you’ve	never
been	seriously	threatened,	have	always	had	a	safe	home	or	true	friends.

Until	we	lose	something	or	someone	that	we	have	relied	on,	we	may	not
realize	what	was	holding	us	up	all	along.	In	Gone	with	the	Wind,	even	ferocious
Scarlett	O’Hara	discovered	her	hated	rival	was	actually	her	dearest	friend	and
supporter.	Scarlett	didn’t	realize	it	until	the	woman	was	on	her	deathbed,	though,
assuming	Scarlett	alone	was	the	font	of	her	own	strength.

Pluto’s	transits	to	the	natal	Moon	take	away	something	that	you	depend	on.
And	this	is	a	permanent	loss,	which	is	a	scary	prospect.	Sometimes	this	loss	may
make	you	doubt	your	faith	in	life	and	in	human	nature.	You	could	lose	a	person,
a	place,	a	thing,	or	even	your	anonymity,	as	some	people	can	become	famous
with	this	transit.	Whatever	you	lose,	the	challenge	is	to	use	what’s	left	to	rebuild
a	strong,	true	life.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

Mercury	symbolizes	how	we	think	and	communicate,	and	how	we	frame	what
happens	to	us.	Pluto’s	transiting	aspects	to	Mercury	can	influence	us	to	see	our
lives	in	the	worst	possible	terms.

The	optimist	in	me	wants	to	encourage	you	to	think	positive	thoughts	so	you
can	create	a	more	uplifting	reality—but	this	ignores	the	necessity	of	Pluto’s
transits,	as	necessary	as	a	forest	fire	in	renewing	the	growth	of	the	forest.

So	instead	I’ll	say	this:	A	lot	of	what	you’ve	been	telling	yourself	for	years,
about	yourself	and	other	people,	is	wrong.	Either	they	were	wrong	from	the	start,
or	they’ve	become	wrong	over	time.	For	a	while,	as	Pluto	transits	Mercury,
you’ll	be	unable	to	hide	from	these	truths.

Healthy,	repetitive,	absorbing	activities	are	the	best	outlet	I’ve	found	for	these
transits.	Knitting.	Puzzles.	Running.	Otherwise,	the	obsessive	qualities	of	Pluto
can	lead	to	unhealthier	pursuits,	compulsions,	and	addictions.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

A	few	years	ago,	transiting	Pluto	opposed	my	natal	Venus.	A	veteran	of	a	long
string	of	Pluto	transits,	I	watched	this	one	coming	with	anxiety,	certain	I’d	lose
all	my	money	or	my	husband	would	run	away	with	someone	half	my	age.

Instead	I	increased	my	business	income	significantly	and	fell	obsessively	in
love	with	all	things	pink,	a	color	associated	with	Venus.	My	marriage	came
through	just	fine.	All	in	all,	it	was	a	pretty	nice	transit.



through	just	fine.	All	in	all,	it	was	a	pretty	nice	transit.
Venus,	ruler	of	Taurus	and	Libra,	represents	the	enjoyment	of	life	and	its

pleasures,	and	our	connections	with	other	people.	Pluto,	ruler	of	Scorpio,
symbolizes	the	knowledge	that	nothing	lasts	forever,	and	that	part	of	life	is
learning	how	to	disconnect	from	what	we’ve	lost.	When	the	two	symbols	collide,
the	challenge	is	to	learn	how	to	reconcile	their	very	different	messages:	how	to
love	life	and	people	even	though	we	know	they	won’t	last	forever	and	will	surely
change,	and	how	to	let	ourselves	grieve	our	losses	without	forfeiting	our
appreciation	for	what	is	good	about	life.

You	might	find	yourself	challenged	financially.	Venus	rules	what	we	value
and	what	we	collect	around	us	in	order	to	feel	secure.	In	this	scenario,	Pluto
encourages	us	to	separate	our	sense	of	security	and	our	own	value	from	things
such	as	possessions	and	good	looks	and	lots	of	money;	sometimes	it	does	this	by
letting	us	experience	financial	blows	such	as	a	business	setback,	a	loss	of
property,	or	an	investment	that	doesn’t	work	out.

Of	course,	you	might	find	yourself	challenged	in	your	relationships.	What
does	it	mean	when	people	close	to	us	change—do	we	still	have	a	contract	to	be
in	a	relationship	with	those	people?	Does	the	loss	of	relationships	mean	we	are
less	valuable	and	lovable?	Can	we	still	love	someone	we	discover	is	flawed	and
capable	of	awful	behavior,	or	love	ourselves	when	we	find	out	we	are	capable	of
treating	our	loved	ones	badly?
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

Mars’s	lessons	are	primal,	lessons	of	survival.	Survival	means	protecting
yourself	from	threat	and	having	the	confidence	to	compete	with	other	people	for
the	same	resources.	When	Pluto	and	Mars	come	together,	it	is	possible	to
become	absolutely	ruthless	in	your	pursuit	of	what	you	want.

Without	a	healthy	outlet	for	your	energy	and	ambition,	however,	you	may
experience	feelings	of	impotence	and	inadequacy.	The	haunting	question	is,	do
you	have	what	it	takes	to	succeed?	Or	will	you—as	is	often	the	case	when	natal
planets	aspect	Pluto—simply	give	up?	Astrologer	Donna	Cunningham	said	that
where	we	have	Pluto	is	an	area	of	life	where	we	tend	to	“fail	for	spite.”
Sometimes	giving	up	feels	like	the	only	way	to	regain	control.	If	none	of	your
efforts	will	make	a	difference,	it’s	tempting	to	just	take	your	toys	and	go	home—
at	least	then	you’re	in	charge	of	how	the	game	ends.

These	transits	often	bring	career	difficulties,	usually	related	to	a	career
change	or	a	difficult	boss	that	creates	an	intolerable	workplace.	Mars	also	rules
the	men	in	your	life,	so	a	partner,	father,	or	other	important	male	might	suffer	a
crisis	of	confidence	or	a	career	setback.

As	always	with	Pluto’s	transits,	the	message	is	about	the	limits	of	your



As	always	with	Pluto’s	transits,	the	message	is	about	the	limits	of	your
personal	power.	No	matter	how	hard	Mars	fights,	how	angry	you	get,	or	how
hard	you	work,	things	sometimes	happen	that	are	beyond	your	control.	In	those
situations,	what	matters	most	is	how	you	handle	weakness,	anger,	and
frustration.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

This	transit	likely	brings	a	significant	improvement	in	your	fortunes.	You	might
find	yourself	in	a	new	job	with	a	better	salary,	or	living	in	a	new	place	with	a
greater	range	of	opportunities.	Sometimes,	if	you’ve	been	through	a	particularly
tough	time,	you	might	find	yourself	strongly	drawn	to	religion.

Pluto	was	the	wealthiest	of	the	gods,	so	when	he	comes	together	with	Jupiter,
the	luckiest	of	the	gods,	big	things	can	happen	for	you	financially.	Powerful
forces	combine	to	bring	wealth	to	you.	It’s	not	always	earned	wealth,	either.
Marrying	into	money,	winning	the	lottery,	making	a	killing	in	the	stock	market
—a	transiting	Pluto	in	Jupiter	won’t	make	these	things	happen,	but	when	they	do
occur,	you’ll	see	Pluto/Jupiter	on	the	scene.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

Transiting	Pluto	in	aspect	to	Saturn	teaches	healthy	skepticism	about	the	forms
and	structures	you	look	to	for	moral	guidance	and	a	sense	of	purpose,	or	see	as
exemplars	of	success.	It	could	be	that	every	authority	in	your	life—parents	or
other	elders,	teachers,	the	church,	the	government—has	been	revealed	as
imperfect.	Or	it	could	be	that	some	empowering	insight	has	enabled	you	to	see
beyond	the	small	structure	you’ve	built	around	your	life,	to	see	that	no	one	else,
however	wise	or	accomplished,	can	make	your	decisions	for	you—that	kind	of
power	and	authority	you	must	reserve	for	yourself.

Conversely,	if	you’ve	been	playing	fast	and	loose	with	the	rules,	that	is	likely
to	come	to	light	now.	When	Pluto	trined	my	natal	Saturn	at	age	eight,	I
(ironically)	cheated	to	get	a	bunch	of	Girl	Scout	merit	badges.	My	mother,	a
shrewd	judge	of	my	character,	picked	up	on	the	unlikelihood	of	my	having	done
all	of	the	work	necessary	to	earn	them.	She	didn’t	make	me	give	back	the
badges,	but	she	personally	saw	to	it	that	I	completed	every	requirement.	That
was,	in	all	honesty,	the	last	time	I	cheated	for	anything.

Saturn	represents	the	ethical	framework	of	your	entire	life,	the	part	of	you
that	personally	contributes	to	upholding	society	and	the	rule	of	law.	Pluto	needs
you	to	be	a	true	and	worthy	role	model.	Pluto	cannot	let	you	get	away	with	doing
and	being	less	than	your	best.	If	he	has	to	tear	you	down	and	personally	see	to	it
that	you	earn	every	merit	badge,	he	will.	Society	depends	on	it.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS



TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

You	probably	understand	by	now	that	Pluto	can	be	a	drag.	He	would	have	us
believe	that	nothing	is	worth	doing.	It’s	all	meaningless.	We	are	but	a	void	in	an
unfeeling	universe.	Pluto	square	Uranus,	however,	has	a	particularly	nasty
message:	“You	might	as	well	just	do	what	you’re	doing.	Give	up	trying	to	do
anything	different.	This	is	your	life	and	you’re	stuck	with	it.”

There	is	a	silver	lining	to	this	dark	Pluto	cloud,	if	you	can	ignore	its
discouraging	messages.	Pluto	transits	indicate	change	on	a	massive	and	societal
scale—and	Uranus	is	a	planet	that	really	appreciates	change.	If	you	are	willing	to
rebel	not	only	against	the	powers	that	be,	but	also	against	your	notions	of	who
you	are,	how	you	thought	your	life	would	turn	out,	and	what	you’re	capable	of
accomplishing,	you	will	have	some	of	the	most	amazing	opportunities	of	your
life	during	this	transit.	Lend	your	most	innovative	talents	to	a	cause	bigger	than
yourself,	and	Pluto	will	place	you	in	a	position	of	considerable	influence.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

Neptune	can	be	a	planet	of	illusions,	or	of	disillusionment.	But	as	always	with
Pluto,	there	can	be	empowerment	as	well.	The	key	is	to	give	yourself	over	with
passion	to	your	dreams.	Transiting	Pluto	in	aspect	to	natal	Neptune	is	especially
well	suited	to	spiritual,	metaphysical,	and	artistic	pursuits,	but	I’ve	known
people	who	have	experienced	significant	success	in	their	dream	careers	during
these	transits,	too.

When	Pluto	transits	Neptune,	you	may	realize	a	cherished	dream	or	become
more	achingly	aware	of	the	dreams	that	have	not	yet	come	true.	The	promise	of
these	transits,	though,	is	discovering	which	dreams	are	really	yours	and	which
were	taught	to	you	by	other	people	or	society.	Pluto	doesn’t	insist	that	your
dreams	be	realistic,	only	that	they	be	honest	and	true.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

These	transits	are	milestones	in	your	evolving,	lifelong	Pluto	journey.	Look	for
events,	people,	and	circumstances	that	help	you	develop	greater	authenticity	and
accept	the	limits	of	your	control.	(See	“Using	Pluto’s	Cycle”	on	page	97	for
more.)
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	LUNAR	NODES

Missteps	during	these	transits	seem	to	be	caused	by	grasping	at	what	appears	to
be	your	only	option,	even	as	part	of	you	knows,	deep	down,	that	it’s	not	right	for
you.	The	Lunar	Nodes	represent	a	path	to	what	is	good	and	fits	you,	and	Pluto’s
transits	here	can	derail	you	from	that	path	with	a	bad	relationship,	bad	job,	or



career	opportunity	that	seems	good	but	ends	up	a	disappointment.
The	grasping	comes	from	fear	and	a	need	to	feel	in	control.	Once	you

understand	that,	it	is	more	likely	you’ll	be	able	to	correct	course	and	make	better
decisions.	Releasing	your	fearful	mind-set,	and	accepting	your	bad	decisions
without	punishing	yourself	for	them,	will	help	you	get	back	on	track	and	move
forward	with	greater	self-knowledge.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	ASCENDANT

From	birth,	we	adopt,	devise,	and	refine	a	series	of	survival	techniques	that	we
use	to	interact	with	the	world.	We	call	this	collection	of	techniques	“the
personality.”	It’s	not	necessarily	false,	but	it	doesn’t	reveal	the	full	scope	of	your
character.	It’s	the	way	that,	given	your	particular	upbringing	and	environment,
you	learned	to	charm	the	checkout	girl	at	the	supermarket	into	accepting	your
expired	coupon.

When	transiting	Pluto	makes	an	aspect	to	your	natal	Ascendant,	something
unsettling	happens.	Your	old	bag	of	tricks	is	no	longer	sufficient	for	your
circumstances,	which	may	for	various	reasons	be	suddenly	and	irrevocably
altered.	If	you’ve	always	been	outgoing,	you	might	become	wary;	a	nice	guy
will	turn	nasty;	a	weakling,	formidable;	a	great	beauty,	suddenly	not	so	stunning.
The	more	dramatic	the	external	events	that	rattle	your	cage,	and	the	less	your
personality	reflects	your	true	self,	the	more	exaggerated	the	change	in	your
personality.	You	need	new	weaponry.	You	need	a	new	identity.	You	need	to
throw	away	the	tricks	and	the	charm	and	act	like	the	person	you	are	on	the
inside.

Transits	in	aspect	to	the	Ascendant	also	aspect	the	Descendant.	Pluto	here	can
mean	changes	in	your	relationship	status,	major	transitions	involving	your
spouse	or	partner,	or	deepening	ties	or	breaks	with	close	friends.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MIDHEAVEN

The	older	I	get	and	the	longer	I	practice	astrology,	the	more	respect	I	have	for
the	idea	of	destiny.	It’s	not	that	I	believe	you	have	no	agency	whatsoever	over
where	you	end	up	or	how	you	get	there,	but	I	do	feel	more	and	more	that	just	as
there	is	a	place	where	you	begin,	there	is	also	a	place	where	you’re	headed.	The
Midheaven	gives	a	strong	indication	of	the	qualities	of	that	destiny:	What	will	it
look	like	when	you	arrive?	What	are	the	characteristics	that	will	get	you	there?

When	transiting	Pluto	makes	an	aspect	to	your	Midheaven,	destiny	calls.
Sometimes	it	shows	up	with	a	wrecking	ball.	Pluto	has	very	specific	ideas	about
what	your	destiny	should	look	like,	and	if	the	career,	reputation,	and	standing
you’ve	built	for	yourself	are	not	in	keeping	with	Pluto’s	ideas,	down	they	will
come.



come.
Transiting	aspects	to	your	Midheaven	also	aspect	your	IC	(fourth	house

cusp).	Pluto’s	aspects	to	this	axis	will	often	bring	a	significant	move,	major	work
to	your	home,	or	important	transitions	related	to	members	of	your	family.



chapter	8
TRANSITS	OF	MERCURY,	VENUS,	AND
MARS:	PLANETARY	TRIGGERS

T he	transits	of	Mercury,	Venus,	and	Mars	fall	somewhere	between	the	epic,
life-altering	transits	of	the	big	boys—Jupiter,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	and
Pluto—and	the	familiar	and	fleeting	cycles	of	the	Sun	and	Moon.	These

planets	move	through	the	zodiac	quickly;	the	slowest,	Mars,	takes	only	two	and
a	half	years.	So	their	transits	don’t	represent	major	and	lasting	change	in	your
life.	They	can	and	do,	however,	act	as	triggers	to	detonate	the	ticking	time
bombs	of	the	slower	planetary	transits.

Most	people	born	within	a	year	or	two	of	you	will	have	Jupiter,	Saturn,
Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto	in	the	same	sign	you	do.	But	Mercury,	Venus,	and
Mars	move	quickly	enough	that	they	can	be	in	quite	different	condition	from	one
week	to	the	next.	Schoolmates	born	a	month	after	you	are	likely	have	these	three
planets	in	different	signs	and	aspects	to	other	planets.	This	makes	them	very
significant	in	analyzing	your	birth	chart.

But	their	transits	go	by	so	fast	that	they	hardly	rate	a	mention	when	an
astrologer	reads	your	chart.	And	so	the	three	of	them	share	this	chapter.	They	are
far	from	unimportant,	but	their	transits	act	mostly	as	catalysts	for	other,	slower-
moving	planets.

TRANSITS	OF	MERCURY:	MEETING	AND	COMMUNICATING

Planetary	Dossier:	MERCURY

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	88	days
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	roughly	3	weeks
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	about	2	days
STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Aquarius
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Sagittarius,	Pisces,	Leo
KEYWORDS:	thinking,	learning,	skills,	ideas,	communication,	conversation,	perception,	listening,
gossip



The	rosebush	at	the	end	of	my	driveway	is	actually	a	newspaper.	I	know	this
because	each	time	a	neighbor	walks	by	with	a	dog,	the	pooch	cannot	resist
stopping	and	sniffing.	I’ll	bet	if	a	dog	could	talk,	he	could	go	on	for	half	an	hour
about	everything	he	was	picking	up	from	that	bush.

On	my	own	morning	walk,	I	notice	tiny,	informal	libraries	are	springing	up,
housed	in	little	birdhouse-style	boxes	in	front	yards	throughout	my
neighborhood.	You	can	take	or	leave	a	book,	or	scratch	a	friendly	message	in	a
notebook	the	“librarian”	left	there.

I	notice	that	a	nearby	house	is	gathering	yellowed	newspapers	and	fliers	on
the	front	porch.	Are	the	neighbors	away,	sick,	or	indifferent?	A	few	doors	down,
another	home	is	freshly	painted.	Are	those	owners	getting	ready	to	sell?

The	world	is	talking	to	us	all	the	time,	every	day.	Even	a	quiet	walk	around
your	neighborhood	is	a	kind	of	conversation	with	your	environment.	You	notice
things;	everywhere,	there	are	clues	and	signs.	In	the	simplest,	seemingly
unchanging	details	of	daily	life,	there	are	tiny	variations	to	interest	the	observant
person.

Mercury	is	the	planet	of	perception.	Where	Mercury	transits	your	chart,	you
are	curious,	awake,	noticing	things	you	normally	would	not.	You	want	to	learn
more.

But	not	much	more.	Mercury’s	transits	are	the	equivalent	of	bookmarking	an
interesting	website	so	you	can	go	back	and	take	a	closer	look	later	when	you’re
not	so	busy.	Like	Curious	George,	Mercury	wants	stimulation	and	new
experiences.	So	let	him	guide	you,	and	pay	attention	to	what	he	shows	you.

HOW	TO	WORK	WITH	TRANSITS	OF	MERCURY
Mercury	moves	quickly	by	transit,	whipping	through	each	sign	of	the	zodiac
within	a	few	weeks	(unless	it’s	retrograde,	which	happens	three	times	each	year
for	several	weeks	at	a	time).	Transiting	Mercury’s	aspects	to	natal	planets	move
quickly	and	are	only	influential	for	a	couple	of	days.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	BY	SIGN

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ARIES	

Impressions	are	formed	very	quickly	and	are	usually	incomplete.	When	it	comes
to	written	communications,	even	more	than	usual,	no	one	wants	to	read	anything
that’s	more	than	a	few	lines	long.	You’ll	have	to	spoon-feed	information	to



that’s	more	than	a	few	lines	long.	You’ll	have	to	spoon-feed	information	to
people	in	tiny	chunks.	On	the	plus	side,	this	is	an	excellent	transit	for	dealing
with	situations	that	require	quick	decisions.	If	you	normally	dislike	conflict,	it
will	be	a	little	easier	for	you	to	speak	your	mind	during	this	transit.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	TAURUS	

You	are	slow	to	notice	things,	but	you	pay	close	attention	to	whatever	does
capture	your	interest.	A	slow,	well-modulated	delivery	helps	others	get	the	most
from	what	you’re	saying.	This	is	a	good	time	to	analyze	problems	requiring
patience	and	tenacity	and	to	formulate	financial	plans	and	strategies.	You	may
be	more	sensitive	than	usual	to	sounds,	smells,	and	touch.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	GEMINI	

This	is	one	of	Mercury’s	strongest	signs,	and	the	pace	of	life	seems	to	accelerate
during	these	few	weeks.	There	are	so	many	distractions!	If	you’re	a	person	who
likes	to	pay	attention	to	and	complete	one	task	at	a	time	before	moving	to	the
next,	this	could	be	a	frustrating	transit	for	you.	It’s	a	terrific	transit	for
brainstorming,	however.	Bright	ideas	are	floating	everywhere—your	only
problem	will	be	finding	a	way	to	hold	on	to	them	all.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	CANCER	

This	is	a	good	transit	for	improving	your	memory,	finding	language	for	your
feelings,	and	communicating	with	others	on	an	emotional	level.	It	can	be	a
melancholy	transit,	too,	with	nostalgia	overtaking	you	at	odd	moments.	This	is
not	a	good	transit	for	dispassionate	communication;	either	you	display	more
emotion	than	you	had	intended	or	you	react	with	strong	emotion	to	what	other
people	say.	It’s	a	good	transit	for	investigating	the	past,	especially	genealogy.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	LEO	

There	is	an	old	joke	about	an	egotist	who,	having	talked	his	friend’s	ear	off	for
ages,	finally	stops	and	says,	“But	that’s	enough	about	me.	Let’s	talk	about	you.
What	do	you	think	of	me?”	This	sums	up	Mercury	in	Leo—both	in	the	birth
chart	and	by	transit—pretty	well!	Like	a	newspaper	reporter,	Mercury	works
best	when	it	is	a	little	bit	objective;	Mercury	in	Leo,	however,	is	completely
subjective:	“What	do	I	think?”	Anyone	can	be	charmed	simply	by	asking	him	to
talk	about	himself.	Creative	impulses	are	awakened,	too,	but	this	is	a	better
transit	for	brainstorming	creative	ideas	than	actually	doing	anything	with	them.



TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	VIRGO	

If	Virgo	has	a	flaw	(which	I	am	not	prepared	to	concede),	it’s	a	predilection	for
criticism	to	an	unhealthy	degree.	Perfection	is	an	unreasonable	standard	for	mere
humans,	unless	we	decide	to	see	everything	as	perfect	simply	by	virtue	of	it
being	what	it	is.	While	Mercury	is	in	Virgo,	another	of	its	strongest	signs,
perception	is	keen.	Intellect	is	sharp.	But	compassion	and	tact	may	be	lacking.
Time	spent	in	solitary	pursuits	that	require	a	good	deal	of	attention	and	craft	is
time	well	spent	while	Mercury	is	in	Virgo.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	LIBRA	

This	is	one	of	the	nicer	transits	of	Mercury,	because	Libra	brings	qualities	of
grace,	balance,	and	tact	to	interactions.	But	the	Libran	desire	for	balance	can	also
lead	to	argumentativeness.	If	you	say	no,	the	other	will	say	yes,	and	so	forth.	It’s
not	a	strong	transit	for	assertiveness	or	decisiveness,	but	it’s	great	for
negotiations,	handling	sticky	interpersonal	situations,	and	persuading	others	to
see	things	your	way.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	SCORPIO	

Mercury	is	ruthless	in	Scorpio,	seeing	everything	in	the	pitiless	detail	of	a
tintype	photo.	It	can	make	most	of	us	a	bit	raw.	You	may	be	a	bit	blunt	in	how
you	deliver	information,	so	it’s	a	good	time	to	resolve	matters	that	require
exactly	that	approach,	such	as	confronting	those	who	have	hurt	you.	This	is	also
a	wonderful	transit	for	writing,	since	it	lends	itself	to	deep	introspection	and
empathy.	For	similar	reasons,	it’s	a	good	transit	for	therapeutic	breakthroughs.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	SAGITTARIUS	

As	transiting	Mercury	leaves	Scorpio	for	Sagittarius,	we	still	see	things	as	they
are—but	it’s	easier	to	laugh	about	them.	Mercury	is	considered	at	a	bit	of	a
disadvantage	in	Sagittarius,	a	sign	that	enjoys	focusing	on	the	big	picture	and
meaning,	because	Mercury	is	strictly	interested	in	collecting	details	and	data.
However,	this	is	a	good	transit	for	taking	a	broad	overview	or	doing	long-term
strategic	thinking.	It’s	an	effective	transit,	too,	for	questioning	your	beliefs,
pursuing	a	higher	level	of	education,	and	teaching	others.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	CAPRICORN	

Capricorn	is	not	a	bad	sign	for	Mercury	to	visit;	they	both	favor	a	cool	and
dispassionate	approach.	Mercury	reveals	the	details	that	must	be	handled	to
climb	the	ambitious	mountains	to	which	Capricorn	is	drawn.	If	you	need	to



climb	the	ambitious	mountains	to	which	Capricorn	is	drawn.	If	you	need	to
develop	practical	skills	to	advance	toward	a	goal,	this	is	the	transit	to	get	started.
If	you	tend	to	let	emotions	cloud	your	rational	mind,	this	transit	will	help	you
separate	thoughts	from	feelings	so	you	can	make	practical	decisions.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	AQUARIUS	

Mercury	excels	in	Aquarius,	a	sign	of	scientific	inquiry,	technological
intricacies,	and	long-range	planning.	Draft	your	plan	for	the	future	now.	If	you
need	to	document	a	work	process,	now	is	the	time.	Mastering	new	technology	is
easier	now,	too.	If	you	need	to	have	a	heart-to-heart	with	someone	you	love,
however,	forget	it.	Wait	a	few	weeks	until	Mercury	enters	Pisces!

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	PISCES	

After	at	least	a	month	and	a	half	of	Mercury	traveling	through	dispassionate
signs,	we’re	ready	for	transiting	Mercury	in	sensitive,	compassionate,
imaginative	Pisces.	Now	is	the	time	to	catch	up	on	all	the	delicate	talks	you’ve
been	putting	off,	the	sleep	you’ve	missed,	and	your	art	projects,	music,	and
poetry.	Pisces	is	a	challenging	sign	for	Mercury,	because	Mercury	is	logical	and
Pisces	is	intuitive,	guided	by	dreams,	visions,	and	illusions.	On	the	plus	side,	if
you	want	to	express	an	idea	poetically,	or	need	to	handle	sensitive	matters	and
conversations,	this	is	the	transit	for	you.

TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

You	shouldn’t	think	and	talk	about	yourself	all	the	time;	it’s	narcissistic	at	worst
and	just	plain	obnoxious	at	best.	But	there	is	a	time	for	self-consciousness,	to
think	about	yourself	and	ask	others	for	their	perspective	on	how	you’re
managing	things,	and	this	is	one	of	those	times.	A	square	or	opposition	may
mean	the	self-examination	is	a	little	disconcerting;	a	trine	or	sextile	may	bring
unexpected	approval	your	way.	The	conjunction	is	a	little	dangerous	in	that	you
can’t	see	yourself	objectively.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

Question	your	unconscious	during	this	transit.	If	you	want	to	break	habits,	this	is
a	good	transit,	especially	the	transiting	square	or	opposition.	It’s	easy	to	talk
about	what	you’re	feeling	without	getting	overwhelmed	by	your	emotions.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

The	squares	or	opposition	from	transiting	Mercury	to	natal	Mercury	challenge



The	squares	or	opposition	from	transiting	Mercury	to	natal	Mercury	challenge
your	way	of	seeing	or	talking	about	the	world.	Other	points	of	view	are	healthy!
A	conjunction	(Mercury	return)	is	the	beginning	of	a	new	cycle	of	perceiving,
learning,	and	giving	language	to	what	you	see	around	you.	Trines	and	sextiles
bring	input	that	supports	your	worldview,	and	pleasant	and	stimulating
conversation.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

We	don’t	always	get	what	we	want,	and	often	it’s	because	we	don’t	really	know
what	we	want.	Transiting	Mercury	in	aspect	to	natal	Venus	helps	us	figure	it	out,
either	through	a	process	of	elimination	(square	and	opposition:	“I	don’t	want
that!”)	or	through	showing	us	things,	people,	ideas,	or	situations	that	delight	us.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

Careful—even	the	“easy”	aspects	(trine	and	sextile)	can	give	you	a	day	or	two	of
contentious,	confrontational	communication.	This	transit	is	a	good	time	to	speak
your	mind,	but	when	you’re	overwhelmed,	it	can	provoke	arguments	and	harsh
words	that	can’t	be	taken	back.	Take	these	couple	of	days	to	question	and	learn
from	your	anger.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

This	transit	can	be	a	lot	of	fun,	but	it	can	also	lead	you	to	cherry-pick	facts
(Mercury)	that	support	what	you	already	believe	is	true	(Jupiter).	This	is	less
likely	in	the	case	of	the	square	or	opposition,	however.	More	positively,	you
have	an	opening	over	these	couple	of	days	to	precisely	articulate	your	beliefs
and	dreams	for	the	future—grab	a	pen	and	start	writing	this	stuff	down!
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

One	of	Saturn’s	symbols	is	the	bear,	and	when	he	is	awakened	by	inquisitive
Mercury,	you’ll	soon	see	why.	Saturn	does	not	appreciate	having	his	authority
questioned,	and	neither	will	you	during	this	transit.	You	may	also	receive
communication	that	awakens	your	greatest	fears	or	makes	you	feel	depressed.
But	Mercury	also	gives	you	the	opportunity	to	gain	better	perspective	on	your
ambitions,	maturity,	and	reputation,	and	to	take	responsibility	for	your	actions
and	feelings.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

Uranus	symbolizes	your	rebellious	side.	When	transiting	Mercury	aspects
Uranus,	you	may	give	voice	to	that	rebellion,	the	desire	to	rebel	may	reach	your
conscious	mind	for	the	first	time,	or	you	may	come	into	contact	with	a	person,
book,	movie,	or	other	catalyst	that	awakens	your	desire	to	be	free	and



book,	movie,	or	other	catalyst	that	awakens	your	desire	to	be	free	and
independent.	This	fleeting	transit	will	not	set	you	free,	but	it	will	help	you
understand	what	in	your	life	needs	to	be	changed.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

What	if	you	could	read	people’s	minds?	It’s	a	common	fantasy	often	cited	when
people	are	asked	what	superpower	they	would	love	to	possess.	You	can’t
actually	read	people’s	minds	during	this	transit,	but	you	are	far	more	intuitive
than	usual	and	perceptive	to	nonverbal	cues.	This	is	an	excellent	transit	for
putting	your	dreams	and	intuitions	into	a	form	that	others	can	appreciate,
especially	through	music,	photography,	painting,	or	dance.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

There	are	shadowy,	nasty	impulses	lurking	inside	each	of	us.	They	are	where
Pluto	lives.	If	we	befriend	them,	we	can	overcome	them.	While	transiting
Mercury	aspects	natal	Pluto,	we	meet	one	of	these	trolls	along	the	road.
Something	we	read,	some	conversation	we	have,	awakens	an	ugly	thought;	it
might	be	jealousy,	or	contempt,	or	an	illicit	idea	on	which	we	would	never	act.
Don’t	be	afraid	of	these	thoughts.	They’re	just	Mercury’s	way	of	introducing
you	to	one	of	your	trolls,	so	you	can	make	friends	with	it	and	it	will	lose	its
power	over	you.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	NORTH	NODE

There	are	things	in	life	that	you	want	very	badly	but	that	seem	to	be	completely
beyond	the	realm	of	possibility.	Reaching	for	them	makes	you	feel	happier	than
you	thought	possible,	though,	even	if	you	don’t	exactly	get	what	you’re	reaching
for.	These	desires	are	symbolized	by	the	Moon’s	North	Node,	and	when
Mercury	makes	an	aspect	to	this	point,	new	information	comes	to	light	about
how	to	attain	them.	A	chance	comment	can	ignite	that	old	urge	to	reach	for	the
brass	ring.	Act	fast—you’ve	only	got	a	short	window	of	opportunity,	a	couple	of
days,	to	take	action.

TRANSITS	OF	VENUS:	THINGS	THAT	YOU	LIKE

Planetary	Dossier:	VENUS

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	224	1/2	days
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	about	18	days
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	about	2	days



STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Taurus,	Libra,	Pisces
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Scorpio,	Aries,	Virgo
KEYWORDS:	pleasure,	affection,	balance,	complements,	compliments,	partners,	indulgence,
senses

Nearly	every	evening,	my	husband	and	I	have	a	conversation	that	will	be
familiar	to	most	couples.	“What	do	you	want	for	dinner?”	one	of	us	asks.	“I	have
no	idea…	What	do	you	want	for	dinner?”	the	other	responds.	We	usually	go
through	a	few	rounds	of	this	before	settling	on	something.

Why	is	it	often	so	difficult	to	figure	out	what	we	want?	Generally,	we	know
what	makes	us	feel	safe	and	good,	and	what	is	familiar,	but	that	is	Moon
territory,	and	another	chapter.	The	Moon	has	an	unconscious	quality,	like	an	itch
that	needs	scratching.	Venus’s	purview	is	entirely	optional	delights,	things	we
enjoy	having	without	really	needing	them.

The	Moon	knows	we	need	to	eat	something	for	dinner	or	we’ll	get	cranky.
But	a	special	dinner	out	at	a	nice	restaurant	takes	us	into	Venus	territory.	What
place	would	you	choose?	What	makes	it	special?	It	might	not	even	be	the	food.
It	could	be	the	way	the	staff	treat	you,	the	beautiful	ambience,	or	the	company
with	whom	you’re	sharing	it.

Venus	delights	in	things	that	appeal	to	the	senses,	that	are	beautiful,	delicious,
or	lovely	to	listen	to,	or	that	feel	wonderful.	Enormous	pleasure	can	also	be
found	in	social	interactions	with	people	we	enjoy,	and	this	is	Venus’s	territory	as
well.

When	Venus	transits	your	chart,	her	representatives—people,	especially
women;	money;	art	or	other	beautiful	things—show	you	delights	that	you	didn’t
even	know	you	wanted.	Not	all	gifts	are	good	for	us,	however	delicious	they
may	be.	But	that	does	not	detract	from	the	pleasure	they	give	us.

HOW	TO	WORK	WITH	TRANSITS	OF	VENUS
Pay	attention	when	Venus	changes	signs	or	moves	into	a	new	house	of	your
chart	(see	part	III).	Its	aspects	to	your	natal	planets	will	be	over	in	a	couple	of
days,	so	don’t	dwell	on	them.	However,	let’s	say	that	your	birth	chart	has	an
aspect	between	Venus	and	Uranus.	A	lot	could	be	said	about	such	an	aspect	and
its	ramifications	for	your	personal	and	financial	life.	Each	time	transiting	Venus
makes	an	aspect	to	natal	Venus	and	Uranus,	the	exciting	natal	aspect	between
the	two	is	activated—and	if	a	slower-moving	planet	happens	to	be	making	a
transiting	aspect	to	them	at	the	same	time,	watch	the	fireworks	fly.



TRANSITING	VENUS	BY	SIGN
Think	of	the	zodiac	as	a	shopping	mall,	with	each	sign	representing	a	different
store—sporting	goods	(Aries),	a	hair	salon	(Libra),	that	shop	with	the	incense
drifting	out	of	it	that	parents	won’t	let	their	kids	wander	into	(Scorpio).	As
Venus	takes	her	nearly	yearlong	lap	around	the	mall,	she	becomes	deeply
interested	in	shopping	at	a	particular	store	for	several	weeks	at	a	time.	She’ll
bring	you	amazing	stuff	that	she	finds	there	and	then	move	on	to	the	next	store.
Each	Venus	sign	is	particularly	good	at	unearthing	certain	treasures—and	social
opportunities—that	you	will	enjoy.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ARIES	

In	our	mall,	Aries	might	be	a	barbershop,	a	sporting	goods	store,	a	car	lot,	a
sports	bar,	or	simply	a	place	that	always	boasts	the	newest,	fastest	toys.	(The	last
time	Venus	was	in	Aries,	she	took	me	to	buy	my	first	new	car	in	fourteen	years.
I	adore	it!)	Do	your	research	in	advance,	because	Venus	in	Aries	favors
impulsive	buying.

Socially,	Venus	in	Aries	prefers	fast-paced	activities	of	short	duration.
Romantic	connections	flare	up	but	will	probably	fizzle	out	almost	as	quickly.
For	Venus	in	Aries,	the	thrill	is	in	the	chase.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	TAURUS	

The	Taurus	shop	could	be	a	jewelry	store,	a	perfumery,	a	spa,	a	music	store,	or	a
gourmet	specialty	foods	market.	Venus	can	get	a	bit	spendy	here,	because	she
prefers	good-quality	items	that	will	last.	Social	engagements	during	Taurus’s
season	will	probably	be	centered	on	shopping,	gardening,	eating,	being
pampered,	or	relaxing	in	a	comfortable	environment.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	GEMINI	

While	in	Gemini,	Venus	can’t	resist	bookstores,	department	stores,	craft	stores,
office	supply	stores,	greeting	card	stores,	or	stationers.	You’ll	buy	at	least	two	of
everything	that	catches	your	eye,	so	stock	up	on	goods	that	you	use	all	year	long.

Venus	tends	to	be	quite	sociable	in	Gemini.	If	you	plan	only	one	or	two
parties	each	year,	make	one	of	them	a	late-spring	gathering	while	Venus	is	in
Gemini.	Buy	all	the	greeting	cards	you’ll	want	now	for	an	entire	year	of
birthdays,	anniversaries,	weddings,	and	graduations.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	CANCER	



This	is	the	best	time	all	year	to	buy	items	for	your	home.	Suddenly	you	know	the
exact	sofa	that	appeals	to	you,	the	right	pots	and	pans,	the	perfect	garden
furniture.	Try	new	recipes,	too,	especially	those	that	use	scandalously	expensive
ingredients.

Cancer	is	the	sign	of	the	homebody,	so	Venus’s	transit	here	is	a	nice	time	to
entertain	at	home.	Limit	the	guest	list	to	very	close	friends	and	family	members
who	don’t	stress	you	out.	Feed	the	people	you	like.	Buy	something	beautiful	for
your	home.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	LEO	

When	Venus	is	in	Leo,	she	wants	glamour,	luxury,	and	excitement.	She	will
avoid	warehouse	stores;	they	depress	her,	so	make	your	trip	to	Costco	while
Venus	is	still	in	Cancer.	Venus	in	Leo	doesn’t	just	want	to	buy	fabulous	things,
she	wants	to	have	a	fabulous	shopping	experience.

This	is	the	transit	for	making	big,	thrilling,	sexy	purchases.	Splurge	on	one
full-price	name-brand	item	that	makes	you	feel	like	a	king	or	queen.	Social
opportunities	with	the	most	appeal	this	month	require	dressy	clothing	and	a	trip
to	a	salon.	Save	up	your	entertainment	money	while	Venus	is	in	frugal	Cancer,
so	you’ll	have	more	to	spend	during	Venus	in	Leo’s	season.	And	if	there	just
isn’t	enough	cash	in	the	kitty,	break	out	the	Scrabble	or	a	deck	of	cards;	Venus
in	Leo	loves	games!

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	VIRGO	

The	simplest	things	delight	Venus	in	Virgo:	staples	for	the	pantry,	shelves	to
help	you	organize	your	closets,	supplies	for	your	home	office,	and	unglamorous
necessaries	such	as	tube	socks	and	underwear.	Tools	of	all	kinds	are	Virgo
territory,	along	with	skeins	of	yarn	for	your	knitting	projects	or	big	tubs	for
brewing	your	craft	beer.

Virgo’s	ideal	social	engagements	are	casual,	possibly	outdoors,	potluck,	and
feature	some	kind	of	productive,	shared	activity.	Hikes,	picnics,	knitting	bees,	or
getting	a	lot	of	friends	together	to	help	you	build	something	or	cook	a	big	meal
could	hold	a	bit	more	appeal	than	usual.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	LIBRA	

If	something	is	elegant,	melodious,	delectable,	or	graceful,	Venus	in	Libra	wants
it.	Buy	the	unessential-yet-special	things	that	make	life	worth	living.	Artwork,
fine	crystal	or	china,	a	beautiful	chair,	tickets	to	an	art	exhibit	or	concert,	high-
end	clothing	and	accessories—all	will	seem	like	excellent	ways	to	spend	your



end	clothing	and	accessories—all	will	seem	like	excellent	ways	to	spend	your
money	while	Venus	is	in	Libra.

Libra	is	among	the	most	sociable	signs	but	has	very	particular	ideas	about
what	constitutes	a	good	time.	You	will	have	little	tolerance	for	boorish	behavior,
vulgar	language,	or	coarse	manners	while	Venus	is	in	this	sign,	so	choose	your
companions	accordingly.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	SCORPIO	

This	month,	you’ll	probably	feel	drawn	to	shops	that	make	a	certain	type	of
person	shiver	a	little	when	they	walk	by.	Places	that	sell	magic	potions,	tattoos,
“adult”	entertainment	supplies,	or	piercings	will	seem	a	bit	more	alluring.	Also,
any	shop	devoted	to	your	particular	obsession,	whether	it’s	books,	shoes,	or
anything	else,	stands	to	collect	a	lot	more	coin	from	you	while	Venus	is	in
Scorpio.

Socially,	Venus	in	Scorpio	lends	itself	to	solitude	or	gatherings	with	your
very	closest	friends,	or	else	people	and	activities	that	push	the	limits	of	what
makes	you	feel	comfortable.	There	is	no	in-between	with	Venus	in	Scorpio!

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	SAGITTARIUS	

Venus	in	Sagittarius	has	a	voracious	appetite	for	books,	a	lust	for	travel,	and	a
delight	in	anything	from	another	part	of	the	world.	If	you	don’t	have	money	to
shop	for	books,	dust	off	and	organize	your	bookshelves	or	rediscover	what
you’ve	downloaded	to	your	e-reader.	If	you	can’t	travel,	this	is	at	least	a	great
time	to	decide	on	a	destination	you’d	really	love	to	visit	and	come	up	with	a	plan
for	making	it	happen.	Take	a	trip	to	an	import	store	or	an	ethnic	neighborhood
grocer.

Venus	in	Sagittarius	signals	a	time	to	enjoy	outdoor	activities	and	all	kinds	of
sports.	Anything	that	is	very	different	and	unusual	is	likely	to	appeal	now.	Go	to
the	symphony	when	you’re	normally	a	hip-hop	fan?	Sure!	See	the	latest	action-
hero	blockbuster	when	your	tastes	usually	run	toward	introspective	foreign
films?	Venus	in	Sagittarius	asks,	“Why	not?”

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	CAPRICORN	

Venus	in	Capricorn	is	more	of	an	investor	than	a	shopper.	You	will	be	more
likely	to	review	your	investment	portfolio,	refinance	your	mortgage,	or	put
money	into	your	business	than	to	indulge	in	shopping	sprees	this	month.	Put
your	assets	to	work	begetting	other	little	assets.	(Which	is	not	to	say	you
couldn’t	be	seduced	by	an	antiques	store.	Hey,	antiques	are	investments!)

This	is	not	a	terribly	sociable	season	overall,	but	it’s	a	good	time	to	hobnob



This	is	not	a	terribly	sociable	season	overall,	but	it’s	a	good	time	to	hobnob
with	colleagues	and	fulfill	family	obligations.	Time	spent	with	older	people	or
mentoring	younger	people	will	be	enjoyable	and	rewarding	for	all	involved.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	AQUARIUS	

Been	wanting	a	new	computer	or	smartphone?	Here’s	your	chance.	Want	to
throw	a	big	party	and	invite	all	your	friends?	Do	it	this	month.	Alternately,	if
you’re	trying	to	rein	in	your	spending,	eliminate	your	debt,	and	increase	your
savings	so	you	can	eventually	buy	your	freedom	(retire),	this	transit	will	help.
Long-term	financial	planning	is	a	good	use	for	Venus	in	Aquarius	energy.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	PISCES	

Venus	in	Pisces	finds	the	newest	fads,	trends,	and	toys	nearly	irresistible,	so	if
you	need	to	save	money,	freeze	your	credit	card	in	a	block	of	ice	for	a	few
weeks!	Instead,	focus	on	enjoying	the	here	and	now.	Let	the	people	in	your	life
know	how	much	you	care	about	them.	Make	a	donation	to	your	favorite	charity.
Find	pleasure	in	nature,	especially	sitting	near	the	water.	Make	music	or	catch	a
movie	with	friends.	Pisces	is	one	of	the	few	signs	for	whom	the	best	things	in
life	truly	are	free.

TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS
Transits	of	Venus	to	natal	planets	and	angles	are	fleeting,	lasting	only	for	a
couple	of	days.	Venus	will	often	appear	in	the	form	of	people,	especially
women,	who	represent	something	that	you	desire	or	enjoy.	Pay	attention	when
you	see	someone	enjoying	him-or	herself	during	these	transits;	it’s	a	reminder
that	even	when	times	are	difficult,	there	is	always	something	in	life	that’s	worth
enjoying.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

If	you’ve	been	feeling	overlooked	and	unappreciated,	this	transit	should	comfort
you	with	several	days	of	soul-soothing	compliments	and,	possibly,	money.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

A	neighbor	brings	a	beautiful	plant	from	her	garden	or	a	delicious	home-baked
snack,	or	says	something	really	nice	about	your	home.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

Ever	have	a	friend	who	laughs	at	all	your	jokes	and	thinks	you’re	incredibly
bright	and	witty?	That’s	what	it	feels	like	when	transiting	Venus	aspects	your
natal	Mercury.	With	the	square	and	opposition,	the	friend	laughs	at	someone



natal	Mercury.	With	the	square	and	opposition,	the	friend	laughs	at	someone
else’s	jokes	and	makes	you	work	harder	to	get	the	attention	back	on	you.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

The	conjunction	is	a	Venus	return	and	sets	the	tone	for	the	rest	of	the	nearly	one-
year	Venus	cycle.	Squares	and	opposition	make	you	doubt	your	attractiveness;
trines	and	sextiles	make	you	feel	adorable.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

Something	(or	someone)	attractive	either	excites	you	sexually	or	awakens	your
competitive	urges.	Venus	could	take	the	form	of	money,	motivating	you	to	work
harder.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

Your	desire	to	experience	something	new	is	briefly	awakened	by	an	appealing
person,	social	opportunity,	or	piece	of	art.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

A	welcome	expression	of	praise,	or	perhaps	a	romantic	interest,	brightens	your
day	and	makes	you	feel	successful,	respected,	and	validated.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

A	pleasant	social	encounter	gives	you	a	feeling	of	belonging.	Occasionally,
something	you	desire	could	make	you	want	to	run	away	from	home	in	order	to
have	it.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

Something	appealing	or	desirable	may	briefly	capture	your	imagination	and
make	you	think	you’re	in	love,	or	a	perhaps	piece	of	art	or	music	captures	your
imagination.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

This	is	the	transit	that	got	Persephone	into	trouble.	Standing	in	a	meadow
looking	Venus-enchanting,	she	caught	the	attention	of	Pluto,	who	pulled	her	into
the	underworld.	This	is	a	transit	when	something	lovely	awakens	your	least-
lovely	impulses.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NORTH	NODE

Inspired	by	beauty	or	love,	you	reach	for	an	achievement	that	feels	completely
unattainable…	and	find	that	it	isn’t	so	unattainable	after	all.



TRANSITS	OF	MARS:	FIGHT	OR	FLIGHT

Planetary	Dossier:	MARS

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	22	months
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	a	little	under	2	months
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	about	a	week
STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Aries,	Scorpio,	Capricorn
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Cancer,	Libra
KEYWORDS:	action,	initiative,	energy,	aggression,	anger,	competition,	work,	sexuality

The	need	to	defend	yourself	takes	on	a	much	different	meaning	depending	on
who	you	are	and	where	you	live.	I’m	a	middle-class	woman	living	in	a	pleasant
Southern	California	city;	my	need	for	self-defense	is	limited	to	keeping	people
from	cutting	in	front	of	me	in	line	at	the	supermarket.	If	I	were	a	young	man
living	in	a	less-prosperous	neighborhood	four	blocks	away,	however,	I	might
view	self-defense	in	quite	another	way.

We	all	have	our	battles	to	fight.	Some	of	them	are	truly	life-or-death	matters,
others	are	internal	struggles,	and	some	are	petty	grievances	unworthy	of	your
time	and	energy.

All	of	these	are	ruled	by	Mars.	And	when	transiting	Mars	makes	contact	with
a	part	of	your	birth	chart,	you	are	called	into	battle.	It	could	be	a	battle	to	defend
yourself	or	somebody	else,	or	simply	to	conquer	some	territory	(such	as	a	job)
that	you	want	for	yourself.

MARS	BY	SIGN
Perhaps	it’s	because	I	was	raised	in	the	car	culture	of	Southern	California,	but
I’ve	long	believed	that	you	can	tell	everything	about	a	person	by	the	way	he	or
she	drives.	Mars	seems	to	have	a	kinship	with	automobiles,	which	gives	an
individual	the	autonomy	to	go	where,	when,	and	how	he	wants	to	go.	This	serves
as	a	handy	metaphor	for	examining	how	the	aggressive,	“me	first”	energy	of
Mars	expresses	itself	as	it	transits	through	the	zodiac	at	the	rate	of	approximately
one	sign	every	two	and	a	half	months.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ARIES	

Mars	is	at	home	in	Aries,	so	there	is	no	ambiguity	here:	This	driver	insists	on



Mars	is	at	home	in	Aries,	so	there	is	no	ambiguity	here:	This	driver	insists	on
being	first,	lives	for	going	fast,	and	refuses	to	let	anyone	or	anything	get	in	his
way.	He’s	the	guy	who	cuts	you	off	on	the	freeway,	the	teenager	who	dings	your
car	in	the	parking	lot,	and	the	customer	service	representative	who	is	rude	to
you.

Mars	in	Aries	makes	an	excellent	ambulance	or	delivery	service	driver,
however.	When	it’s	essential	that	something	get	someplace	as	quickly	and
directly	as	possible,	you’ll	be	glad	you	have	Mars	in	Aries	on	your	side.
Rules	of	the	road:	If	something	needs	to	be	done	fast,	decisions	need	to	be
made	in	a	hurry,	or	there	is	something	you	really	want,	this	is	the	perfect	transit.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	TAURUS	

Mars	in	Taurus	is	the	guy	who	is	driving	only	fifty	miles	an	hour	in	the	fast	lane
of	the	freeway.	He’s	slow	and	stubborn	and	refuses	to	budge,	and	he	can	make
you	absolutely	crazy.

Mars	in	Taurus	makes	a	perfect	limousine	driver;	when	people	want	to	be
transported	in	comfort	and	safety,	Mars	in	Taurus	is	their	guy.
Rules	of	the	road:	Taurus’s	slow	and	steady	approach	makes	this	Mars	transit
great	for	starting	projects	that	require	a	lot	of	patience	and	stamina	to	bring	to
completion.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	GEMINI	

Mars	in	Gemini	is	the	young	girl	who	is	texting	while	driving,	putting	on	her
makeup,	and	giggling	with	the	five	other	girls	she’s	crammed	into	her
Volkswagen	Beetle.	She’s	distracted	and	surprisingly	volatile	behind	the	wheel,
flipping	the	bird	and	hollering	at	fellow	motorists.

Mars	in	Gemini	makes	a	fantastic	tour	guide,	though.	Put	someone	else	in
charge	of	driving	and	hand	Mars	in	Gemini	a	loudspeaker,	and	everyone	will
have	a	good	time.
Rules	of	the	road:	Gemini’s	restlessness	and	short	attention	span	make	this	a
good	Mars	transit	for	activities	that	offer	variety,	sociability,	and	fast	talking.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	CANCER	

Mars	in	Cancer	is	like	a	harried	mother	piloting	her	SUV	full	of	demanding
children	through	rush-hour	traffic.	She	usually	holds	it	together,	but	look	closely
and	you’ll	see	a	little	craziness	around	her	eyes.	If	one	of	those	kids	starts
choking	on	a	Lego,	though,	Mars	in	Cancer	becomes	a	laser-focused	dynamo.



choking	on	a	Lego,	though,	Mars	in	Cancer	becomes	a	laser-focused	dynamo.
Protecting	home,	hearth,	and	loved	ones	is	Mars	in	Cancer’s	greatest	strength.
Rules	of	the	road:	Cancer’s	emotionalism	makes	this	a	very	difficult	transit	for
handling	things	in	a	dispassionate,	straightforward	way.	But	it	is	splendid	for
dealing	with	domestic	matters	that	call	for	courage	and	decisive	action.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	LEO	

Mars	in	Leo	is	the	driver	of	a	luxury	vehicle,	probably	a	convertible,	who	is
wearing	a	$5,000	suit	and	talking	on	the	phone	through	his	Bluetooth	headset.
He	is	probably	a	tad	distracted	by	his	phone	conversation,	not	to	mention	his
dazzling	reflection	in	the	rearview	mirror.	Mars	in	Leo	should	really	hire	a
professional	driver	to	handle	the	tedious	business	of	commuting.	That	way,	he
can	focus	on	the	business	of	being	marvelous,	preferably	in	the	back	of	a
limousine,	where	he	can	entertain	his	friends	with	champagne	and	a	hot	tub.
Rules	of	the	road:	This	is	an	excellent	transit	for	initiating	creative	projects,
entertaining	others,	and	self-promotion.	It’s	less	effective	for	handling	the
tedious,	practical	details	of	daily	life.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	VIRGO	

Mars	in	Virgo	is	a	cranky	driver.	No	one	is	using	a	turn	signal,	everyone	is
incompetent,	and	look	at	that,	you	made	her	miss	her	exit!	It’s	the	worst	thing
that’s	happened	to	her—ever.

Mars	in	Virgo	is	a	very	conscientious	driver,	but	a	little	too	preoccupied	with
what	everyone	else	is	doing	wrong.	She’s	a	terrific	navigator,	though,	and	would
make	a	fantastic	driving	school	instructor.
Rules	of	the	road:	If	you	need	to	improve	yourself	(and,	with	any	luck	at	all,
others),	transiting	Mars	in	Virgo	is	the	right	time	to	do	it.	It’s	not	the	best	transit
for	projects	involving	collaboration	or	patience.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	LIBRA	

Mars	in	Libra	cannot	decide	whether	to	turn	left	or	right.	Freeway	exits	marked
“east”	or	“west”	make	him	split	the	difference	by	driving	into	the	sign	itself.	He
vacillates	between	being	passive-aggressive	and	aggressive-aggressive.	He	gets
lost	a	lot,	because	he’s	concentrating	on	changing	the	radio	station	or	chatting
with	his	passenger.

Mars	in	Libra	is	not	an	effective	driver	in	the	sense	of	reaching	a	specific
destination	in	a	logical	way.	He’s	a	great	passenger,	though,	because	he’s
pleasant,	soothing	company	and	chooses	the	perfect	music	for	the	journey.



pleasant,	soothing	company	and	chooses	the	perfect	music	for	the	journey.
Rules	of	the	road:	When	transiting	Mars	is	in	Libra,	let	someone	else	do	the
driving	for	a	while.	Do	your	best	to	be	a	pleasant,	cooperative	copilot.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	SCORPIO	

In	my	neighborhood,	there	are	guys	who	drive	mean-looking	cars	with	darkly
tinted	windows,	their	stereos	pulsing	with	bass	you	can	feel	from	four	blocks
away.	They	want	you	to	think	they	are	badasses.	Maybe	they	are.	But	maybe
they’re	just	living	by	the	adage	that	if	you	look	menacing	enough,	no	one	will
mess	with	you.

Mars	in	Scorpio	certainly	looks	menacing.	He’d	like	you	to	think	he’s	going
to	mess	you	up	if	you	drive	too	close	to	his	bumper.	Not	that	you	would,	if	you
value	your	hearing.	But	watch	him	spring	into	action	if	he	comes	across	an
accident	by	the	side	of	the	road.	He	would	make	an	excellent	EMT.
Rules	of	the	road:	While	transiting	Mars	is	in	Scorpio,	an	appearance	of
strength	could	prevent	you	from	real	trouble.	True	strength	could	help	you	save
others	from	real	trouble.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	SAGITTARIUS	

There	are	two	kinds	of	Mars	in	Sagittarius	drivers.	One	thinks	he’s	Mario
Andretti,	weaving	in	and	out	of	traffic	with	abandon.	The	other	is	completely
distracted	by	whatever	he’s	listening	to	on	satellite	radio.	He	tends	to	run	over
parking	bumpers	and	is	a	regular	at	the	local	body	shop.

Mars	in	Sagittarius	is	not	that	interested	in	driving;	airplanes	are	more	his
speed.	As	long	as	he’s	stuck	behind	the	wheel,	though,	he’s	going	to	have	an
adventure.
Rules	of	the	road:	Transiting	Mars	in	Sagittarius	is	the	time	to	do	what	feels
adventurous	and	absorbing.	If	you	don’t,	you’ll	tend	to	get	a	little	reckless	or
accident-prone.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	CAPRICORN	

Mars	in	Capricorn	is	an	excellent	driver—strategic,	controlled,	and	professional.
There	is	no	wasted	effort,	no	pointless	lane	changing,	no	road	rage;	every	move
is	a	study	in	efficiency.

Mars	in	Capricorn	would	rather	be	sitting	in	back	of	a	town	car	making
business	calls	with	his	chauffeur	at	the	wheel.	But	if	he	must	do	the	job	of
driving,	he	will	do	it	like	a	professional,	complete	with	black	leather	gloves.



driving,	he	will	do	it	like	a	professional,	complete	with	black	leather	gloves.
Rules	of	the	road:	Transiting	Mars	in	Capricorn	is	terrific	for	managing
virtually	any	practical	matters	with	maximum	efficiency	and	professionalism.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	AQUARIUS	

Mars	in	Aquarius	admires	cars	but	doesn’t	particularly	enjoy	driving.	He’ll	take
exactly	the	same	route	to	work	every	day	for	months,	until	he	suddenly	can’t
bear	it	anymore	and	switches.	He	finds	traffic	claustrophobic	and	hates	wearing
seatbelts.

Mars	in	Aquarius	would	make	a	pretty	good	bus	driver	or	train	conductor,
though.	He’s	at	his	best	organizing	groups	of	people	all	headed	in	the	same
direction.
Rules	of	the	road:	While	transiting	Mars	is	in	Aquarius,	change	up	your
routine,	go	your	own	way,	and	don’t	play	it	safe.	If	you	do	what	feels	right	for
you,	others	will	follow	your	lead.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	PISCES	

Oh,	Mars	in	Pisces.	You’re	very	sweet.	You	don’t	mean	to	drive	us	crazy	with
your	rush-hour	left	turns	at	busy,	uncontrolled	intersections	and	failure	to	notice
when	a	light	has	turned	green.	You’re	just	grooving	to	your	tunes	and	talking	on
the	phone	without	a	care	in	the	world.	Even	though	you	don’t	follow	a	straight
path,	or	even	use	a	map,	you	somehow	get	where	you’re	going.

Cars	aren’t	really	her	thing,	but	Mars	in	Pisces	would	be	an	excellent	tour
guide	or	cruise	ship	director.
Rules	of	the	road:	Transiting	Mars	in	Pisces	is	best	for	letting	life	unfold	the
way	it	wants	to.	Don’t	force	things	to	happen	in	a	particular	way	or	at	a
particular	time.

TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS
Mars	moves	relatively	quickly,	but	not	as	fast	as	Mercury	and	Venus.	In	fact,	it
takes	Mars	more	than	twice	as	long	as	Venus	to	circuit	the	zodiac.	But	the	battles
of	transiting	Mars	are	skirmishes,	not	full-fledged	wars.	Mars’s	transits	of	a	sign,
or	a	house	of	your	birth	chart	(see	part	III),	usually	take	no	more	than	a	couple	of
months.	His	aspects	to	your	natal	planets	are	finished	within	a	week.

But	he	can	do	a	lot	of	damage	in	a	week	if	you	don’t	keep	a	lid	on	your
temper,	take	care	on	the	freeway,	or	be	cautious	about	walking	through	bad
neighborhoods	after	dark.	When	Mars	comes	knocking	on	your	door,	he	might



neighborhoods	after	dark.	When	Mars	comes	knocking	on	your	door,	he	might
come	in	the	form	of	a	neighbor	who	is	annoyed	about	your	barking	dog,	or	he
might	be	a	fellow	motorist	battling	you	for	a	parking	space.	Mars	is	there	to
make	you	fight	for	your	right	to	be	who,	what,	and	where	you	are,	and	to	not	let
yourself	get	pushed	around.	Just	don’t	get	carried	away;	remember,	everyone
else	has	the	same	rights	that	you	do.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN

For	about	a	week,	while	Mars	aspects	your	natal	Sun,	you	may	be	more
energetic,	focused,	and	competitive	than	usual.	But	you	may	also	be	prone	to
bouts	of	temper,	particularly	if	someone	disrespects	you.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MOON

This	is	one	of	the	best	weeks	all	year	to	tackle	daunting	projects	around	the
house.	You	might	also	feel	hurt	or	threatened	by	another	person’s	show	of
temper	or	competitive	spirit.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

Your	mind	works	overtime	this	week.	It	can	be	an	excellent	transit	for	digging
into	writing	projects,	studying,	or	anything	else	that	requires	a	sharp	mind.	But	it
can	also	be	a	grouchy	transit.	You’re	not	at	your	most	tactful	because	your	mind
is	focused	on	getting	things	done,	and	chitchat	gets	in	the	way.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

You	are	motivated	this	week	to	pursue	the	things	you	want,	the	things	you	enjoy,
and	the	objects	of	your	affection.	But	remember	that	the	pursuit	matters;	you	will
not	be	able	to	fully	enjoy	your	spoils	if	getting	them	requires	that	you	treat
others	poorly.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

Been	collecting	a	lot	of	big	dreams?	Now	is	the	time	to	take	action!	Even	the
smallest	step	in	the	direction	of	a	wish	or	adventure	will	be	rewarding	this	week.
Irrational	exuberance	can	backfire,	though,	so	don’t	take	unnecessary	risks.	Start
with	a	single	step—Rome,	as	they	say,	was	not	built	in	a	day.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

Careful.	While	transiting	Mars	aspects	natal	Saturn,	you	are	apt	to	beat	up	on
yourself	for	your	faults	and	failings,	real	or	imagined.	But	it’s	not	a	productive
approach	to	self-improvement.	Instead,	bring	all	your	energy	to	the	task	of
getting	your	life	organized	in	a	way	that	will	move	you	forward	from	a	stronger
platform.



TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

Sometimes	we	have	to	get	good	and	angry	before	we	are	willing	to	make	a
change.	If	that’s	the	case	for	you,	this	week	will	likely	be	a	catalyst	for	shaking
things	up.	Step	a	little	lightly,	though.	Once	the	world	is	shaken	up,	it’s	easy	to
trip	over	fallen	debris.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

This	week,	take	a	small	action	that	you	feel	will	improve	someone’s	life.
Volunteer	or	contribute	to	a	cause,	or	stick	up	for	someone	who	can’t	defend
himself.	If	you	have	artistic	intentions,	initiate	a	new	project	this	week.	If	you
simply	give	in	to	anger,	it	may	prompt	self-defeating	behavior.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

When	push	comes	to	shove,	sometimes	we	react	by	curling	up	in	a	ball—and
sometimes	we	push	back.	This	week,	you’ll	get	the	opportunity	to	show	what
you’re	made	of.	Don’t	let	a	challenge	defeat	you;	let	it	inspire	you	to	empower
yourself.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	NORTH	NODE

The	Moon’s	North	Node	represents	one	of	the	few	“can’t	fail”	areas	of	your
chart.	If	you	make	any	step	in	the	direction	of	your	fondest	desires	this	week,
you	will	be	rewarded—even	if	the	prize	takes	a	different	form	than	the	one	you
had	envisioned.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	ASCENDANT

This	is	normally	a	pretty	quick	transit.	But	if	you’ve	been	in	an	angry	or	self-
defeating	mind-set,	a	transit	such	as	this	can	trigger	a	temper	tantrum	or	worse.
The	best	strategy	is	to	consciously	channel	strong	emotions	and	energy	into
directed	physical	exercise.	Drive	cautiously.	Handle	kitchen	knives	carefully.
Wear	red.	And	count	to	ten	before	you	tell	that	guy	who	stole	your	parking	space
what	you	really	think	of	him.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	MIDHEAVEN

By	all	means,	keep	a	lid	on	your	temper.	Social	media	flame	wars,	meltdowns	in
the	workplace,	or	angry	talk	about	someone	will	probably	backfire	on	you.	This
transit	is	quick,	but	it	could	do	long-term	damage	to	your	reputation.

It’s	a	good	transit,	however,	for	actively	pursuing	something	that	will	move
you	closer	to	your	goals—especially	in	your	career.	Tackle	your	to-do	lists	and
initiate	long-term	plans.



chapter	9
TRANSITS	OF	THE	SUN	AND	MOON:	THE
DANCE	OF	LIGHT

G rowing	up	in	Los	Angeles,	I	spent	a	lot	of	time	at	Disneyland.	Back	then,
you	paid	admission	and	received	a	coupon	book	with	tickets,	labeled	A
through	E,	to	gain	entry	to	various	attractions.	Everyone	knew	that	all	the

best,	most	exciting	rides	were	the	ones	that	required	an	E	ticket.
In	astrology	the	big,	slow	transits	of	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	and	Pluto	are

the	E-ticket	rides.	They’re	the	ones	that	are	exciting	and	life-changing,	and
occasionally	make	you	nauseous;	they	are	the	transits	in	your	chart	that	an
astrologer	will	usually	spend	the	most	time	talking	about.

In	contrast,	transits	of	the	Sun	and	Moon	would	probably	qualify	only	as	A-
ticket	attractions.	They	move	quickly,	repeat	often,	and	in	and	of	themselves,
they’re	never	going	to	bring	about	important	changes	to	your	life.	But	their
cyclical	dances	symbolize	the	development	of	emotional	well-being	(symbolized
by	the	Moon)	and	a	healthy	ego	(the	Sun),	both	of	which	will	help	you	handle
the	larger,	life-altering	transits	more	gracefully.

In	this	chapter,	we’ll	take	a	look	at	each	cycle	and	place	these	fast-moving	but
important	transits	into	perspective.

TRANSITS	OF	THE	MOON:	DAILY	AND	MONTHLY

Planetary	Dossier:	MOON

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	28	days

TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	about	2	1/2	days
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	approximately	3	hours
STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Cancer,	Taurus
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Capricorn,	Scorpio
KEYWORDS:	home,	family,	comfort,	security,	safety,	privacy,	the	public,	the	subconscious,	habits,
routines,	diet,	mother,	nurturing,	nourishing



You	were	born	into	a	family	and	a	community	where	your	physical	and
emotional	needs	were	(hopefully)	met.	Most	likely,	you	absorbed	the	customs
and	tribal	identity	of	this	community	before	you	were	old	enough	to	realize	it;
they	allowed	you	to	feel	safe.	You	also	developed	particular	habits,	routines,	and
emotional	attitudes	as	ways	of	comforting	and	protecting	yourself.

The	familiarity	of	family,	hearth,	and	community,	as	well	as	the	mostly
unconscious	patterns	of	daily	habit,	are	represented	in	astrology	by	the	Moon.
Your	approach	to	the	days	and	months	of	your	life	is	aligned	with	the	phases,
signs,	and	aspects	of	the	transiting	Moon.	One	of	the	most	profound	rewards	of
following	lunar	cycles	is	a	better	understanding	of	your	unconscious	habits	so
that	you	can	choose	healthier,	comforting,	and	nurturing	ones.

HOW	TO	FOLLOW	THE	MOON
Because	the	Moon	moves	quickly,	whipping	through	a	sign	of	the	zodiac	in	two
and	a	half	days,	tracking	its	aspects	to	the	natal	chart—even	its	location	in	the
houses	of	the	horoscope—is	not	all	that	useful.	Yes,	if	you	look	back	at	crucial
moments	in	your	life	and	cast	a	horoscope	for	them,	you’ll	probably	see	that	the
Moon	was	making	interesting	aspects	to	your	birth	chart.	But	most	of	us	simply
don’t	have	the	time	to	track	all	of	those	aspects	daily.

What	I	have	found	helpful	is	keeping	track	of	the	Moon’s	current	phase,	its
current	sign,	and	the	aspects	it	will	make	to	other	transiting	planets	on	a	given
day.	Taken	together,	these	paint	a	picture	of	the	day’s	mood	and	reveal	the	most
productive	way	to	plan	your	day	and	your	month.

LUNAR	PHASES
The	monthly	lunar	cycle	is	as	familiar	as	a	mother’s	face,	beginning	at	the	dark
of	the	New	Moon,	waxing	toward	its	First	Quarter,	reaching	its	zenith	with	a
completely	illuminated	Full	Moon,	and	waning	toward	its	Last	Quarter.	Each	of
these	points	in	the	Moon’s	monthly	cycle	offers	a	particular	opportunity	for
developing	self-awareness	and	taking	action.
NEW	MOON	(TRANSITING	SUN	AND	MOON	IN	THE	SAME	SIGN)

This	is	the	quiet,	dark	time	of	the	month.	Something	new	is	coming,	but	you
can’t	see	it	yet.	Energy	is	building,	but	it	hasn’t	quite	taken	hold.	Seeds	are	being
planted,	but	evidence	of	their	growth	is	weeks	away.

This	is	one	of	the	most	powerful	times	of	the	month	for	performing	magic.
It’s	common	practice	at	this	time	of	the	lunar	cycle	to	set	intentions	based	on	the
New	Moon’s	sign	and	use	some	kind	of	ritual	to	affirm	those	intentions.



New	Moon’s	sign	and	use	some	kind	of	ritual	to	affirm	those	intentions.
FIRST	QUARTER	(TRANSITING	MOON	SQUARE	THE	TRANSITING	SUN)

At	the	First	Quarter	phase,	about	one	week	after	the	New	Moon,	a	bit	of	the
Moon	is	visible	early	in	the	night	sky.	Symbolically,	the	light	is	beginning	to
dawn	for	you,	as	well.	The	road	forward	becomes	clearer;	you’re	more	energetic,
even	feisty.	What	was	hidden	from	you	at	the	New	Moon	is	rising	up	now,	into
your	consciousness.	You	know	what	needs	to	be	done,	and	you	have	the	energy
and	will	to	do	it.
FULL	MOON	(TRANSITING	MOON	OPPOSED	THE	TRANSITING	SUN)

About	two	weeks	into	the	lunar	cycle,	the	Full	Moon	illuminates	the	night	sky.	If
you	wished,	you	could	go	outside	and	work	through	the	night	without	any	other
light	source.	You	now	can	see	exactly	what	has	been	blocking	your	progress	in
the	area	of	life	represented	by	the	New	Moon’s	sign	and	house.	This	is	the	best
phase	for	releasing	what	is	no	longer	working.
LAST	QUARTER	(TRANSITING	MOON	SQUARE	THE	TRANSITING	SUN)

Three	weeks	after	the	New	Moon,	the	Last	Quarter	Moon	is	visible	late	in	the
evening.	Once	again,	as	at	the	First	Quarter,	you	are	energized,	ready	to	adapt,
and	prepared	to	make	a	final	push	to	achieve	your	goals.

THE	TRANSITING	MOON	BY	SIGN
What	mood	is	the	world	in	today?	What	are	people	looking	for?	What	colors,
clothes,	and	attitudes	will	appeal	to	the	public	on	a	subconscious	level?

The	Transiting	Moon’s	sign	is	a	terrific	tool	for	any	situation	that	requires
tuning	in	to	others,	such	as	interviews	or	social	engagements.	And	it’s	a	good
way	of	figuring	out	which	activities	and	endeavors	will	come	most	easily	to	you
today.

The	Moon	changes	signs	every	two	and	a	half	days,	so	if	you	don’t	like
what’s	on	today’s	menu,	you	won’t	have	to	wait	long	for	a	new	selection!

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	ARIES	

Aries	is	the	Nike	moon:	“Just	do	it”	is	the	motto	for	the	day.	While	the	Moon	is
in	Aries,	don’t	make	excuses.	Don’t	give	in	to	self-doubt	or	fear.	Be	brave
enough	to	live	a	life	that’s	right	for	you,	not	one	that’s	meant	for	someone	else.
What	to	get	done	today:	This	is	one	of	the	better	Moon	signs	for	breaking	old
habits,	standing	up	for	yourself,	and	doing	the	things	you’re	afraid	to	do.



What	people	want	today:	action,	speed,	courage,	sass,	the	color	red,	plain	talk

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	TAURUS	

Immersed	as	we	are	in	modern	life,	with	its	sedentary	pace	and	wall-to-wall
electronic	gadgets,	it’s	easy	to	become	estranged	from	our	bodies.	Today,	while
the	Moon	is	in	Taurus,	the	sign	representing	the	joy	of	physicality,	be	in	your
body	and	enjoy	life’s	simple	pleasures.
What	to	get	done	today:	Taurus	is	determined	and	habit	oriented,	so	it’s
essential	that	you	use	these	few	days	to	form	positive	and	healthful	routines.
What	people	want	today:	enjoyment,	good	food,	a	happy	use	of	the	physical
body,	the	pleasures	of	the	senses,	the	colors	pink	and	baby	blue

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	GEMINI	

When	the	Moon	is	Gemini,	your	attention	easily	wanders—not	because	you
don’t	care	about	others,	but	because	you’re	listening	to	so	many	stories	at	once.
From	songbirds	to	the	whisper	of	wind	in	the	trees,	in	your	email	inbox	and	on
social	media,	the	whole	world	seems	to	be	talking	to	you	today.	Like	a	restless
bird	or	butterfly,	you	crave	motion;	your	mind	needs	stimulation	and	variety.
What	to	get	done	today:	Gather	information.	Gossip	shamelessly.	Deviate	from
your	usual	routines	and	habits.	Socialize.	Catch	up	on	email	and	phone	calls.
What	people	want	today:	variety,	conversation,	new	ideas,	information,	bright
colors,	distractions

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	CANCER	

Cancer	the	Crab	doesn’t	let	go	easily;	just	look	at	those	claws.	Inside	each	of	us
there’s	a	little	Cancer-shaped	box	with	a	secret	cache	of	beloved	objects,	people,
and	memories	that	we	treasure	and	hold	on	to	for	dear	life.	They	make	us	feel
connected	with	someone	we	used	to	be,	someplace	we	used	to	live,	or	loved	ones
who	are	gone.	Part	of	a	glowing,	lacquered	shell	of	familiarity	and	warmth,	these
treasures	feel	like	home.
What	to	get	done	today:	The	Moon	is	strongest	in	this	sign,	and	the	pull	of
personal	rituals	and	routines	is	strong.	Don’t	push	yourself	to	change	these	while
the	Moon	is	in	Cancer.	Instead,	take	care	of	yourself,	eat	what	you	like,	and
enjoy	your	home	and	family.



What	people	want	today:	comfort,	security,	tenderness,	nourishment,	silvery
colors,	old	songs	and	movies,	relaxed	times	with	people	whom	we	consider
members	of	our	tribe

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	LEO	

So	many	of	us—even	Leos!—are	embarrassed	by	our	need	to	express	ourselves
and	to	be	acknowledged	by	others.	We	create	but	refuse	to	share	our	creations
for	fear	of	rejection.	Or	we	share	our	artistry	but	pretend	that	we	don’t	care	how
others	respond.	How	often	do	we	simply	stand	before	an	audience,	looking	great,
doing	our	best,	sharing	everything	in	our	hearts,	and	trusting	our	audience	to
love	us	back?	It	takes	a	lot	of	guts	and	conviction	to	take	the	stage	and	offer	up	a
part	of	one’s	soul.	While	the	Moon	is	in	Leo,	take	your	place	in	the	spotlight	and
show	us	what	you’ve	got.
What	to	get	done	today:	These	are	good	days	to	solidify	habits	and	routines
that	you’re	hoping	will	last.	It’s	also	an	inspiring	time	for	creative	work	and	one
of	the	best	times	of	each	month	for	self-promotion.
What	people	want	today:	an	audience,	dramatic	fashion,	fiery	colors,	spicy
food,	glamour,	fun,	parties

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	VIRGO	

To	be	of	service—untangling	the	knots	of	the	world,	solving	vexing	problems,
relieving	pain	and	suffering—is	a	Virgo	impulse.	Throw	the	Moon	into	the	mix,
and	even	the	psyche	grows	watchful.	You	don’t	need	to	be	asked	for	help;	today
you	observe	need	in	the	smallest	gesture,	like	the	faint	tightening	around	a	loved
one’s	mouth.	The	physical	world	whispers	to	you,	and	intuitively,	almost
unconsciously,	you	respond.	You	add	more	oregano	to	the	sauce	without	tasting
it;	somehow	you	know	just	how	much	it	needs.	You	reach	for	precisely	the	right
size	screwdriver	to	fix	the	cupboard	hinge.	The	computer	that’s	been	acting	up
for	days	suddenly	hums	in	your	presence.	You	are	ready	and	able	to	fix	the
world’s	problems.
What	to	get	done	today:	Offer	yourself	in	service.	Aspire	to	craft,	to	art,	to
empathy;	show	the	world	how	well	you	understand	it,	how	carefully	and
thoroughly	you	can	love	it.
What	people	want	today:	something	to	fix,	a	job	to	do,	a	problem	to	solve,
useful	things,	practical	fabrics,	time	outdoors



TRANSITING	MOON	IN	LIBRA	

As	its	symbol—the	scales—suggests,	balance	is	key	to	understanding	Libra.	In
any	situation,	Libra	instinctively	notes	which	side	of	the	scales	is	too	heavily
weighted	and	then	jumps	to	the	other	side	to	balance	things	out.	The	nastier	the
mood	of	the	room,	the	sweeter	Libra	is	apt	to	be.	But	when	confronted	with	an
atmosphere	laden	with	cloying	sentiment	and	excessive	politeness,	Libra	won’t
hesitate	to	level	it	out	with	acerbic	observations	and	irreverence.

While	the	Moon	is	in	Libra,	the	sign	of	balance,	harmony,	and	partnership,
we	instinctively	temper	volatile	situations	with	diplomacy	and	instigate	trouble	if
life	grows	tame.	When	we	find	the	perfect	partner	to	provide	the	harmony	to	our
melody,	the	result	is	magical.
What	to	get	done	today:	Bring	situations	into	balance.	Play	music,	paint	a
picture,	or	feng	shui	your	house.	Beautify	yourself	and	your	surroundings.
Collaborate.
What	people	want	today:	companionship,	beauty,	someone	who	brings	balance
to	the	situation

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	SCORPIO	

When	the	Moon	moves	through	Scorpio,	dragons	need	slaying.	Some	are	outside
of	you,	but	the	scariest	dragons	live	in	your	heart.	Today,	if	you	don’t	feel	equal
to	the	task	of	wrestling	your	demons,	it’s	not	the	end	of	the	world;	you’ll	have
other	chances.	In	the	meantime,	don’t	let	your	fears,	or	the	terrible	discomfort	of
vulnerability,	provoke	you	into	attacking	others	for	their	own	frailties.	Before
letting	loose	with	Scorpio’s	legendary	sting,	examine	why	you	want	to	do	it.
Sometimes	it’s	easier	to	attack	others	instead	of	our	own	problems—or	worse
still,	to	let	our	emotions	ice	over	or	give	in	to	cynicism.
What	to	get	done	today:	Be	patient	with	others	and	gentle	with	yourself.	Dig
deep	to	get	to	the	root	of	problems.
What	people	want	today:	someone	trustworthy;	honesty;	dark,	dramatic	colors;
emotionally	challenging	films,	television,	and	music

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	SAGITTARIUS	

Ask	a	Sagittarian	anything:	He	or	she	will	usually	answer	honestly.	It’s	tempting
to	think	that’s	because	Sagittarius	is	more	trusting	than	the	rest	of	us	are.	But	I
don’t	think	that’s	it,	exactly;	rather,	Sagittarius	simply	sees	honesty	as	a	road	to
freedom.	The	only	information	that	can	be	used	against	us,	Sagittarius	reasons,	is



freedom.	The	only	information	that	can	be	used	against	us,	Sagittarius	reasons,	is
what	we	try	desperately	to	keep	hidden—from	other	people,	and	from	ourselves.
The	less	Sagittarius	hides,	the	freer,	more	energetic,	and	more	creative	he	or	she
is.
What	to	get	done	today:	You	may	never	be	as	comfortable	as	Sagittarius	about
sharing	your	secrets.	But	today,	while	the	Moon	is	in	this	uninhibited	sign,	try,	at
the	very	least,	not	to	take	yourself	too	seriously.	Laughing	first	gives	others	the
chance	to	laugh	with	you,	rather	than	at	you.
What	people	want	today:	a	good	laugh,	optimism,	a	big	idea,	an	adventure,	the
colors—and	the	spirit—of	Mardi	Gras

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	CAPRICORN	

New	Year’s	resolutions	are	tough	to	keep.	Sometimes	that’s	because	we	don’t
really	know	what	we	want	to	accomplish.	Other	times,	we	find	that	we’re
daunted	by	the	sheer	distance	that	lies	between	us	and	our	goal.

Capricorn,	symbolized	by	the	mountain	goat,	knows	there’s	only	one	way	to
close	the	gap	between	you	and	the	summit:	one	hoofstep	at	a	time.	It’s	not
important	that	every	step	be	graceful,	or	that	you	smile	and	think	positive
thoughts	while	you’re	climbing—it’s	only	vital	that	you	keep	moving	forward.	If
you’re	determined	to	reach	a	goal,	whether	small	and	personal	or	of	social
significance,	you	can	generally	find	success	simply	by	showing	up	and	doing	the
job—and,	with	dogged	determination,	by	outlasting	the	competition.
What	to	get	done	today:	Choose	one	goal	you	can	reasonably	reach	in	the	next
twenty-eight	days.	If	you’re	willing	to	sweat,	to	be	discouraged	and	exhausted,
to	sacrifice	comfort,	luxury,	and	afternoon	naps—you	can	achieve	that	goal	by
the	next	Capricorn	Moon.	Practice	this	exercise	every	month,	and	you’ll	develop
strength	and	confidence	in	your	ability	to	meet	your	resolutions.
What	people	want	today:	respect,	authority,	competence,	and	maturity;	old
movies,	cars,	and	songs;	subdued	colors	and	classic	fashions;	excellent	quality
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	AQUARIUS	

Aquarius	is	a	sign	of	contradictions.	It	symbolizes	society’s	oddball,	the
rebellious	square	peg	who	stubbornly	refuses	to	be	shoved	into	a	round	hole.	The
world	needs	its	rebels,	outcasts,	and	weirdos.	Without	them,	nothing	much	ever
changes.

Aquarius	is	also	the	sign	of	the	local	celebrity,	the	person	who	knows
everyone	in	his	neighborhood.	In	some	cases,	it’s	the	sign	of	the	master
politician	or	superstar,	someone	of	singular	stature	who	nonetheless	exudes



politician	or	superstar,	someone	of	singular	stature	who	nonetheless	exudes
human-scale	warmth.	An	Oprah	Winfrey,	Ronald	Reagan,	or	Franklin	D.
Roosevelt	succeeds	because	others	relate	to	him	or	her.

The	mark	of	a	leader	is	the	ability	to	embrace	the	spirit	of	the	collective.	The
mark	of	a	great	leader	is	the	ability	to	elevate	the	discourse	and	move	the
collective	out	of	its	comfort	zone—and	into	history.
What	to	get	done	today:	Ask	yourself	how	you	can	best	influence	the	world:	by
shaking	up	the	status	quo,	or	by	persuading	the	world	to	be	better,	braver,	and
more	compassionate	than	it	thinks	it	can	be?	Gather	with	others	who	share	your
views,	interests,	and	goals.	Walk	toward	the	future.
What	people	want	today:	feelings	of	belonging;	a	friend;	a	place	to	fit	in;
exciting,	unexpected	experiences;	socializing;	a	feeling	that	they	are	doing
something	that	will	matter	long	after	they’re	gone;	cool,	electric	colors

TRANSITING	MOON	IN	PISCES	

A	nap.	You	could	really	use	a	nap.	For	the	two	and	a	half	days	each	month	when
the	Moon	is	in	Pisces,	you	alternate	between	being	delightfully	sociable	and
finding	your	fellow	humans	unendurably	exhausting	to	be	around.	Suddenly	you
find	that	you	absorb	every	feeling	around	you—joy,	anger,	jealousy,	inspiration.
Holding	all	that	emotion	can	make	you	feel	heavy,	like	a	rain	cloud	before	a
storm	or	a	sponge	that	needs	wringing	out.	This	is	the	time	of	the	month	for	rest,
for	release,	and	for	emptying	your	mind	and	soul	to	prepare	for	new	experiences
to	come.
What	to	get	done	today:	Like	the	sleek,	vulnerable	fish	for	which	it’s	named,
Pisces	is	a	gentle	creature	with	only	a	few	scales	for	protection.	No	matter	how
tough	you	normally	are,	today	you	may	feel	helpless.	Wiley	escape	may	seem	to
be	your	only	defense—and	this	is	excellent	astral	weather	for	time	spent	alone	in
rest,	reflection,	and	meditation.
What	people	want	today:	rest,	retreat,	and	inspiration;	shimmering	ocean
colors;	music;	positive	words	and	thoughts

THE	TRANSITING	MOON	IN	ASPECT	TO	TRANSITING	PLANETS
The	Moon	moves	about	1	degree	every	two	hours.	Its	orb	of	aspect	to	another
transiting	planet	is	about	1	degree	approaching	the	exact	aspect.	So	a	lunar
aspect	to	another	transiting	planet	is	really	in	effect	only	for	a	couple	of	hours	at
most.	This	makes	it	a	relatively	minor	transit	but	potentially	a	powerful	trigger
for	other,	more	important	transits.



for	other,	more	important	transits.
Most	of	all,	the	Moon’s	aspects	in	a	given	day	point	to	the	day’s	“flow”:	How

easy	or	difficult	is	it	to	get	things	done?	If	the	Moon	is	making	a	lot	of	squares
and	oppositions	during	the	day,	or	conjunctions	to	difficult	planets	such	as	Mars,
Saturn,	Uranus,	or	Pluto,	it’s	going	to	be	One	of	Those	Days—everyone	seems
grouchy	and	you	can’t	get	anything	done.	As	I	write,	for	instance,	the	Moon	is	in
Capricorn—already	a	bit	of	a	tough	sign	for	it—and	is	making	a	conjunction	to
Pluto	and	squares	to	Mars/Uranus.	Basically,	write	off	everything	before	11:51
a.m.	Then	the	day	gets	a	bit	nicer,	with	the	Moon	making	a	trine	to	Venus.

If,	on	the	other	hand,	the	Moon	is	awash	with	pleasant	trines	and	opportunity-
bringing	sextiles,	life	generally	chugs	along	in	a	fairly	productive	way.



How	to	Tell	If	It’s	Going	to	Be	a…

TOUGH	DAY:
The	Moon	is	making	mostly:
Square	or	opposition	aspects	to	other	planets,*	or
Conjunctions	to	Mars,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto
*	Venus	and	Jupiter	are	generally	considered	to	be	favorable	planets,	so	even	traditionally	difficult
aspects	such	as	squares	and	oppositions	are	not	so	bad	when	Venus	and	Jupiter	are	involved.

NICE	DAY:
The	Moon	is	making	mostly:
Sextile	or	trine	aspects	to	other	planets,	or
Conjunctions	with	the	Sun	(New	Moon),	Mercury,	Venus,	or	Jupiter



VOID-OF-COURSE	MOON
After	the	Moon	has	finished	making	all	of	the	major	planetary	aspects	it	will
make	in	its	current	sign,	we	say	that	she	is	void	of	course,	or	VOC.	Depending
on	the	positions	of	the	Sun	and	other	planets,	this	VOC	period	may	last
anywhere	from	a	few	seconds	to	a	day	or	more.

The	traditional	interpretation	of	the	VOC	Moon	is	“nothing	will	come	of	the
matter.”	These	are	probably	not	the	best	times	to	initiate	an	enterprise	that	needs
to	grow	and	change.

Weirdly,	though,	there	are	very	particular	and	helpful	uses	for	the	VOC
Moon.	My	teacher	swore	by	sending	her	tax	returns	on	a	VOC	Moon,	figuring
“nothing	comes	of	the	matter”	would	mean	she	wouldn’t	get	audited!	I’ll	also
confess	to	having	saved	certain	email	inquiries	about	things	I	didn’t	really	want
to	do,	and	responding	to	them	during	the	VOC	Moon.

Here’s	an	interesting	bit	of	trivia:	I	started	two	of	the	longest	and	most
satisfying	relationships	of	my	life	during	the	VOC	Moon:	I	bought	my	first	new
car,	and	I’m	still	driving	it	twenty-nine	years	later.	And	in	1991,	a	cute	guy	with
a	neat	accent	walked	into	my	office	for	a	reading	during	the	VOC	Moon.	We
recently	celebrated	our	twenty-first	wedding	anniversary!

So	I’m	not	sure	I’d	say,	exactly,	that	“nothing	comes	of	the	matter”	when	you
begin	something	on	a	VOC	Moon.	It	seems	to	me	what	happens	is	that	things
keep	on	keeping	on.	The	late	astrologer	Darrell	Martinie,	who	went	by	the
colorful	moniker	“The	Cosmic	Muffin,”	used	to	say	the	VOC	Moon	was	his
favorite	time	to	begin	a	diet.	So	if	you’re	initiating	a	new	habit—or	starting	a
relationship—that	you	hope	will	last,	you	could	do	much	worse	than	to	begin	it
when	the	Moon	is	void	of	course.

TRANSITS	OF	THE	SUN:	THE	MAN	WHO	CAME	TO	DINNER

Planetary	Dossier:	SUN

TIME	TO	MAKE	A	FULL	CYCLE	AROUND	THE	SUN:	365	days
TIME	SPENT	IN	EACH	ZODIAC	SIGN:	30	days
TRANSITING	ASPECTS	LAST	FOR:	approximately	3	days
STRONGEST	SIGNS:	Leo,	Aries
HAS	TO	WORK	HARDER	IN:	Aquarius,	Libra
KEYWORDS:	vitality,	life	force,	confidence,	creativity,	charisma,	playfulness,	happiness



In	adolescence,	the	security	and	familiarity	of	home	are	no	longer	quite	enough.
You’re	ready	to	test	your	mettle	against	the	world	outside	those	gates.	You	yearn
to	make	a	name	for	yourself	and	to	figure	out	who	you	are	apart	from	your
family.

To	locate	the	qualities	and	character	of	the	core	self,	astrologers	look	to	the
Sun.	It’s	easy	to	trivialize	the	Sun’s	cycle,	since	it	moves	quickly.	The	transiting
Sun	covers	one	house	of	your	chart	in	a	month	or	two	and	the	entire	birth	chart
in	one	year.	When	a	slow-moving	planet	such	as	Saturn	or	Pluto	transits	an
important	point	in	your	chart,	it’s	like	a	hostage	situation.	They	take	over	and
stay	for	a	decade.	Naturally	this	is	juicy	fodder	for	the	astrologer,	and	these
transits	tend	to	get	the	lion’s	share	of	attention	in	a	reading.

But	really,	when	you’ve	got	a	crazy	relative	living	in	your	basement	for	a
decade	at	a	time,	you	feel	his	presence	less	and	less.	He’s	a	problem	everyone
else	can	see,	but	day	to	day,	you	might	not	even	notice	he’s	there.

The	Sun	transiting	your	chart,	on	the	other	hand,	is	like	The	Man	Who	Came
to	Dinner.	In	this	classic	film	adaptation	of	a	popular	play,	an	overbearing,	self-
centered	celebrity	is	invited	to	dine	with	the	family	of	a	prominent	businessman.
As	he	arrives,	he	slips	on	some	ice	outside	their	house,	is	injured,	and	moves	in
for	the	duration	of	his	convalescence.	In	very	short	order	he	comes	to	dominate
the	lives	of	everyone	in	the	household	with	his	imperious	nature	and	blunt
comments.

The	Sun	can	be	sort	of	an	overbearing,	self-centered	celebrity	himself,	and
when	he	is	transiting	your	chart,	he	has	a	way	of	making	you	feel	that	your
furniture	is	a	little	shabby	and	your	conversation	a	bit	dull.	At	worst,	he	briefly
dominates	your	life	with	his	ego,	demands,	tantrums,	and	theatrics.	But	at	best,
he	motivates	you	to	bring	your	“A”	game:	to	want	a	little	more	from	life,	get	a
better	haircut,	mind	your	posture—in	short,	to	make	your	life	a	bit	better	and
happier.
THE	TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLANETS

The	transiting	Sun’s	aspects	to	the	planets	in	your	birth	chart	are	worth
watching.	The	influence	of	these	aspects	is	strong	for	several	days:	the	day
before	the	aspect	is	exact,	the	day	of	it	is	exact,	and	the	day	after	it	is	exact.
Several	days	is	long	enough!	These	aspects	are	uncommon	enough	(you	only	get
a	handful	of	aspects	to	each	planet	from	the	transiting	Sun	in	a	given	year)	to
make	an	impression.

If	you	have	a	copy	of	your	birth	chart	and	an	ephemeris	(use	the	free	online



ephemeris	at	Astro.com	or	buy	a	used	copy	of	the	complete	ephemerides	for	the
twenty-first	century	online),	it’s	extremely	easy	to	find	when	these	days	will
occur,	and	they’ll	be	within	the	same	day	or	so	every	year.

For	instance,	if	Venus	in	your	chart	is	at	9	degrees	Gemini,	you	know	the
transiting	Sun	will	make	a	conjunction	to	this	point	sometime	after	the	Sun
moves	into	Gemini	in	late	May.	Since	that	usually	happens	around	May	20	and
the	Sun	moves	about	1	degree	per	day,	you	can	expect	this	transit	around	May
29,	give	or	take	a	day.

The	transiting	Sun’s	challenging	aspects	are	the	square,	the	opposition,	and
any	aspect	to	a	planet	in	your	chart	that’s	a	bit	difficult.	If	a	planet	in	your	chart
has	many	challenging	aspects,	it’s	like	having	a	shabby	room	in	your	house	that
you	desperately	try	to	keep	hidden,	and	the	Sun	is	a	nosy	guest	who	throws	open
the	door	and	tells	you	how	awful	it	looks.

The	transiting	Sun’s	more	encouraging	aspects	are	the	sextile	and	trine.	These
transits	usually	bring	with	them	some	small	measure	of	acclaim	or	praise,	or
pleasant	events	and	feedback	that	make	you	feel	better	about	yourself.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SUN

If	the	aspect	is	a	conjunction,	happy	birthday/solar	return!
Challenging	aspects:	Stand	tall	in	defense	of	your	authority,	dignity,	and	right
to	be	noticed.
Flowing	aspects:	Accept	praise	and	admiration	graciously	and	take	advantage	of
opportunities	to	shine.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MOON

Challenging	aspects:	If	others	invade	your	privacy	or	make	you	feel	threatened,
consider	how	to	create	healthy	boundaries	and	defend	yourself.
Flowing	aspects:	These	are	days	when	you	gain	appreciation	for	and	pride	in
your	home,	family,	and	heritage.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MERCURY

Challenging	aspects:	Consider	whether	you	can	frame	the	difficulties	in	your
life	in	a	more	positive	way;	consider	whether	it’s	time	to	change	your	name	or
title	to	something	more	appropriate.
Flowing	aspects:	Your	ability	to	express	yourself	creatively	and	charismatically
soars.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS



TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	VENUS

Challenging	aspects:	Treat	yourself	well;	if	you	don’t	value	yourself,	no	one
else	will.
Flowing	aspects:	These	are	some	of	your	most	magnetic	and	attractive	days	of
the	year!	Look	your	best,	put	yourself	out	there,	and	accept	compliments
gracefully.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	MARS

Challenging	aspects:	Someone	provokes	your	fighting	instincts,	probably
through	a	display	of	arrogance	or	authoritarianism.	Take	advantage	of	the
opportunity	to	practice	handling	conflict	more	effectively.
Flowing	aspects:	Conflict	is	still	possible	under	the	flowing	aspects,	but	you
probably	feel	a	lot	more	energized,	and	even	creatively	inspired,	by	it.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	JUPITER

Challenging	aspects:	Your	tolerance	for	being	told	what	to	do	or	to	believe	is
very	low.	Take	this	opportunity	to	consider	whether	you’re	apt	to	be	a	bit	bossy
yourself,	or	too	vehement	in	expressing	your	beliefs.
Flowing	aspects:	Mark	these	days	on	your	calendar	and	capitalize	on	them.
Unless	your	natal	Jupiter	has	very	poor	aspects,	these	are	usually	times	when	it’s
much	easier	than	usual	for	you	to	get	what	you	want.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	SATURN

Challenging	aspects:	The	spotlight	is	shining	on	your	deepest	insecurities	and
wounds.	Don’t	lash	out;	rather,	let	these	days	deepen	your	compassion	for
yourself.
Flowing	aspects:	You	are	likely	to	be	acknowledged—if	only	by	yourself—for
your	achievements,	leadership,	and	maturity.	Give	yourself	a	gold	star	for	all	the
obstacles	you’ve	overcome	and	for	all	the	hard	work	you’ve	done	that	no	one
knows	about	but	you.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	URANUS

Challenging	aspects:	These	days,	it	can	feel	as	though	you	just	don’t	fit	in
anywhere.	Take	the	opportunity	to	appreciate	the	qualities	that	make	you	unique.
Flowing	aspects:	You	may	find	yourself	connecting	with	people	who	make	you
feel	like	part	of	a	group	or	network.	You	might	literally	join	an	organization	that



makes	you	feel	included.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NEPTUNE

Challenging	aspects:	You	may	feel	others	are	critical	of	you,	especially
pointing	out	your	lack	of	practicality	or	focus.	It’s	vitally	important	to	safeguard
your	health	now,	since	your	sensitivity	is	very	high	and	your	resistance	to
disease	(and	negativity)	is	low.
Flowing	aspects:	If	you	are	a	creative	or	spiritual	person,	these	extraordinarily
rewarding	days	may	leave	you	feeling	touched	by	a	divine	and	benevolent	spirit.
Create	today.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	PLUTO

Challenging	aspects:	Some	of	the	most	uncomfortable	for	many	people,	these
days	you	tend	to	get	the	message	that	you	just	aren’t	very	important.	Take	the
opportunity	to	claim	the	attitude	that	each	of	us	is	vitally	important,	and	that
includes	you.
Flowing	aspects:	These	can	be	some	of	the	most	powerful	days	of	your	personal
year,	as	long	as	you	don’t	try	to	grab	power	that	doesn’t	belong	to	you.	Place
yourself	in	the	vicinity	of	powerful	people;	they	could	respond	well	to	you.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	ASPECT	TO	NATAL	NORTH	NODE

Challenging	aspects:	You	may	feel	as	though	you’re	not	getting	anywhere	and
will	never	reach	your	most	cherished	goals.	The	message	today	is	to	refuse	to
accept	that	belief	and	to	recommit	yourself	to	taking	even	the	smallest	step
toward	what	is	important	to	you.
Flowing	aspects:	Even	if	you	don’t	seem	to	be	reaching	exactly	the	goal	you	set
for	yourself,	today	you	recognize	that	you	may	be	reaching	a	related	goal	that	is
even	better	for	you,	that	you	would	never	have	imagined	for	yourself.

YOUR	PERSONAL	SEASONS
A	Southern	California	girl,	I	never	gave	much	thought	to	the	seasons	until	I
married	someone	from	the	Southern	Hemisphere	and	listened,	baffled	and
captivated,	to	his	stories	of	spending	Christmas	at	the	beach	and	celebrating	his
October	birthday	in	the	spring.

Regardless	of	which	hemisphere	you’re	in,	you	can	relate	to	the	seasons	in	a
way	that	brings	them	into	your	bones	and	makes	them	your	own.	Begin	your
personal	springtime	on	the	day	that	the	transiting	Sun	moves	over	the	Ascendant



personal	springtime	on	the	day	that	the	transiting	Sun	moves	over	the	Ascendant
of	your	birth	chart,	and	then	follow	the	Sun’s	annual	cycle	through	the	wheel	of
your	chart.

The	annual	solar	cycle	mirrors	the	lunar	cycle,	beginning	with	the	dark	of	the
Winter	Solstice	(rather	like	the	New	Moon),	followed	by	the	Spring	Equinox
(similar	to	the	First	Quarter	Moon),	Summer	Solstice	(day	of	longest	light,
evocative	of	the	Full	Moon),	and	Autumnal	Equinox	(like	the	Last	Quarter
Moon).

The	work	of	this	transiting	solar	cycle	is	about	reclaiming	different	facets	of
the	self	and	learning	to	overcome	blockages	to	self-expression.	Your	own
personal	seasons	can	be	defined	by	the	Sun’s	annual	conjunctions	with	the
angles	of	your	chart.
YOUR	PERSONAL	WINTER	SOLSTICE
Sun	Conjunct	Midheaven	(tenth	house	cusp)
The	seasons	begin	with	the	Sun’s	conjunction	with	your	Midheaven,	the	most
elevated	point	in	your	birth	chart.	It	is	the	angle	associated	with	Capricorn,	the
sign	the	Sun	enters	on	the	shortest	day	of	the	year.	The	Midheaven	is	associated
with	career,	calling,	and	ambition.	(Our	calendar	year	starts	soon	after	the
Winter	Solstice;	this	is	when	we	enjoy	setting	resolutions	for	health,	finances,
and	career	in	the	coming	twelve	months.)

At	this	time,	you’re	determined	to	do	more,	to	be	more.	But	like	the	New
Moon,	this	is	a	dark	time,	and	you	can’t	completely	see	yet	exactly	where	you’re
going.
YOUR	PERSONAL	SPRING	EQUINOX
Sun	Conjunct	Ascendant	(first	house	cusp)
Your	personal	spring	begins	the	day	the	transiting	Sun	crosses	your	Ascendant.
Regardless	of	the	season	that	the	rest	of	the	world	is	experiencing,	this	is	the
time	of	year	that	speaks	to	you	of	excitement,	new	beginnings,	and	the	energy	to
make	a	big	push	forward.
YOUR	PERSONAL	SUMMER	SOLSTICE
Transiting	Sun	Conjunct	IC	(fourth	house	cusp)
The	indolence,	relaxation,	and	break	from	everyday	life	that	we	associate	with	a
great	summer	vacation	begins,	for	you,	on	the	day	that	the	transiting	Sun	crosses
your	IC.	Your	energy	is	often	a	bit	low,	you	don’t	want	to	be	around	people
much,	and	you	need	a	respite	from	your	routines	so	that	you	can	daydream	and
reflect	on	the	year	so	far.
YOUR	PERSONAL	AUTUMN	EQUINOX



Transiting	Sun	Conjunct	Descendant	(seventh	house	cusp)
You	are	beginning	the	third	quarter	of	your	personal	year,	and	it’s	time	to	make
a	last	push	to	achieve	what	you	set	out	to	do	when	the	sun	crossed	your
Midheaven.	Because	the	Descendant	is	the	relationship	and	partnership	area	of
your	chart,	it	may	become	clear	to	you	now	to	ask	others	for	help	and	support	to
make	it	to	the	finish	line.

YOUR	SOLAR	AND	LUNAR	RETURNS
YOUR	ASTROLOGICAL	BIRTHDAY	AND	YOUR	MONTHLY	REBIRTH

Each	year,	within	one	day	of	your	birthday,	the	Sun	returns	to	the	same	degree
and	sign	it	was	in	at	the	moment	of	your	birth.	This	is	called	your	Solar	Return.
Similarly,	every	twenty-eight	days,	the	Moon	returns	to	the	same	degree	and
sign	of	the	zodiac	that	it	was	in	at	your	birth;	this	is	your	Lunar	Return.

Calculate	a	chart	for	the	moment	of	the	Solar	Return	or	Lunar	Return,	and
you	can	read	it	as	a	snapshot	of	the	year	or	month	ahead.

How	to	Calculate	Your	Return	Charts	at	Astro.com

1.	From	the	navigation	menu,	click	on	“Free	Horoscopes.”
2.	Navigate	to	“Horoscope	Drawings	&	Calculations”	and	select	“Extended	Chart	Selection.”
3.	Under	“Methods	>	Please	select	the	type	of	chart	you	want,”	from	the	drop-down	menu	select

“Solar	Return	Chart”	or	“Lunar	Return	Chart.”
4.	Under	“Options,”	select	the	start	date	to	begin	your	search;	that	will	calculate	the	next	solar

or	lunar	return	chart.
5.	Press	the	button	that	says	“Click	here	to	show	the	chart.”

What	to	look	for:	The	house	of	the	chart	where	the	Moon	(Lunar	Return	chart)
or	Sun	(Solar	Return	chart)	falls	shows	which	area	of	your	life	could	benefit
from	a	review	of	unconscious	habits,	and	creation	of	some	rituals	to	set
intentions	for	the	month	ahead.	(See	part	IV	for	delineations	of	each	house	of	the
horoscope.)

The	house(s)	of	the	chart	with	Cancer	(Lunar	Return	chart)	or	Leo	(Solar
Return	chart)	on	the	cusp	shows	where	in	your	life	you	are	able	to	work	out
some	of	your	emotional	challenges	this	month.

Planets	close	to	the	angles	of	the	chart	represent	external	challenges	and
opportunities	that	affect	your	emotional	nature	this	month	and	have	an	effect	on
your	ability	to	feel	safe	and	secure	(Lunar	Return)	or	your	confidence,	sense	of



your	ability	to	feel	safe	and	secure	(Lunar	Return)	or	your	confidence,	sense	of
self,	and	creative	expression	in	the	coming	year	(Solar	Return).

ECLIPSES
NEW	AND	FULL	MOONS	ON	STEROIDS

Eclipses	involve	a	specific	alignment	of	the	Sun,	Moon,	and	Earth.	Although
these	celestial	bodies	align	twice	each	month,	we	don’t	have	monthly	eclipses
because	the	Moon’s	orbit	is	slightly	tilted	in	relation	to	the	ecliptic,	the	Sun’s
apparent	path	through	the	stars.

Eclipses	are	by	no	means	unusual,	though.	We	have	at	least	two	solar	eclipses
each	year,	six	months	apart,	at	the	New	Moon	closest	to	the	Lunar	Nodes.	Lunar
eclipses	usually,	but	not	always,	precede	or	follow	a	solar	eclipse	at	the	Full
Moon.
SOLAR/LUNAR	ECLIPSES

During	a	solar	eclipse,	the	Moon	passes	between	the	Sun	and	the	Earth,
temporarily	blocking	our	view	of	the	Sun.	Symbolically,	at	a	solar	eclipse,	lunar
function	such	as	intuition	and	instinct	temporarily	overpower	solar	functions
such	as	confidence,	creativity,	and	sense	of	self.	The	result	is	a	bit	like	a	short-
circuit	of	your	internal	wiring.

In	my	observation,	solar	eclipses	are	experienced	most	intensely	in	the	week
leading	up	to	the	event.	They	also	seem	to	have	more	of	a	physical	effect	than
lunar	eclipses,	making	us	feel	drained,	stressed,	or	overexcited.

During	a	lunar	eclipse,	the	Earth	casts	a	shadow	on	the	Moon,	preventing	it
from	reflecting	the	Sun’s	light.	Similarly,	during	a	lunar	eclipse,	our	ability	to
transmit	and	receive	light	is	blocked	by	worldly	concerns,	such	as	the	pain	of
earthly	need	or	loss.	In	my	observation,	lunar	eclipses	are	most	intensely	felt	up
to	a	few	days	before	they	actually	happen	and	have	less	of	a	physical	effect	than
do	solar	eclipses.
WHAT	THEY	MEAN

Eclipses	indicate	moments	of	crisis.	Sounds	scary—but	it’s	worth	noting	that	a
crisis	is	not	always	negative.	A	crisis	can	be	a	difficult	or	dangerous	situation,
but	sometimes	it	is	simply	a	decisive	moment	of	change.	Even	the	happiest
moment	of	your	life—a	marriage,	a	birth,	enormous	career	success—can	be	a
crisis.	Much	happiness	is	associated	with	big	events	such	as	these,	but	ask	any
newlywed	and	they’ll	often	admit	that	some	days,	they	wake	up	and	don’t	know
who	they	are,	don’t	recognize	their	own	life.	It’s	exciting	but	disorienting.

Eclipses	indicate	times	of	crisis—some	joyful,	some	tragic.	All	of	them	shake



Eclipses	indicate	times	of	crisis—some	joyful,	some	tragic.	All	of	them	shake
you	out	of	your	normal	routines	or	way	of	seeing	the	world.
ECLIPSES	TO	WATCH

Not	all	transits	are	created	equal,	and	that	includes	eclipses.	Generally,	to	really
get	your	attention,	eclipses	need	to:

•	Make	a	close	(no	more	than	4	degrees	of	orb)…
•	hard	aspect	(conjunction,	square,	opposition)…
•	to	an	important	planet	or	group	of	planets	in	your	birth	chart.	An	“important
planet”	is	the	Sun,	the	Moon,	or	one	that’s	involved	in	a	number	of	aspects
(especially	difficult	aspects)	with	other	planets,	or	is	very	close	to	an	angle
(the	cusp	of	the	first,	fourth,	seventh,	or	tenth	houses).

Of	course,	other	transits	happening	at	the	same	time	may	color	your
experience	of	a	particular	eclipse	cycle.	Also,	eclipses	that	occur	at	the	Moon’s
North	Node	are	thought	to	represent	opportunities	for	positive	change.	Eclipses
at	the	Moon’s	South	Node	are	considered	by	some	to	be	harbingers	of	loss	and
bad	luck.
ECLIPSE	CYCLES

Like	everything	else	in	astrology,	eclipses	have	predictable	patterns.	Every
eighteen	years,	an	eclipse	occurs	as	part	of	a	Saros	cycle	family	of	eclipses.
These	macro	cycles	unfold	over	thousands	of	years.	Many	astrologers	use	the
chart	for	the	first	eclipse	in	a	Saros	family	to	read	the	characteristics	that	will	be
common	to	all	eclipses	in	the	cycle.

In	addition,	every	nineteen	years,	an	eclipse	falls	close	to	the	same	degree	of
the	zodiac.	That	means	an	eclipse	at	the	same	degree	as	one	of	the	planets	or
angles	in	your	birth	chart	will	repeat	roughly	every	nineteen	years.

Eclipses	move	in	cycles,	the	way	earthquakes	happen	along	a	fault	line.	This
year’s	eclipses	share	characteristics	with	the	ones	that	happened	eighteen	and
nineteen	years	ago.	Those	years,	and	the	events	that	happened	then,	are	relevant
to	your	life	right	now;	they	are	part	of	a	continuing	story	unfolding	over	the
entirety	of	your	life.

Mark	Twain	once	famously	wrote,	“History	doesn’t	repeat	itself,	but	it
rhymes.”	Eclipses	don’t	bring	identical	events	over	and	over,	but	rather	bring
experiences	having	similar	themes	in	your	life,	related	to	the	most	challenging
planetary	aspects	in	your	chart.



part	III:
TRANSITS	IN	HOUSES

L ots	of	people	were	born	on	the	same	day	you	were,	and	quite	a	few	around	the
same	moment	you	were,	but	only	a	handful	of	those	were	also	born	in	the
same	place	that	you	were.	The	twelve	houses	of	the	horoscope,	derived	from

the	date,	time,	and	location	of	your	birth,	are	arguably	the	most	personalized
points	in	your	birth	chart.	This	bespoke	configuration	of	the	sky	is	what	is
missing	in	astrology	when	you	don’t	know	the	exact	time	and	place	of	a	person’s
birth.	Without	the	houses	of	the	horoscope,	an	important	dimension	of	transit
work	is	incomplete	at	best.

If	your	life	is	a	play	and	the	planets	are	characters,	the	twelve	houses	of	the



If	your	life	is	a	play	and	the	planets	are	characters,	the	twelve	houses	of	the
horoscope	represent	the	situations	in	which	the	characters	find	themselves.
When	transits	enter	a	new	house	of	the	birth	chart,	a	different	area	of	your	life	is
awakened	and	impacted.	The	plot	thickens.

HOUSE	SYSTEMS
House	systems	are	the	various	methods	astrologers	use	to	cut	the	chart	into
pieces.	Think	of	house	systems	as	schools	of	architecture:	A	midcentury	modern
house	tends	to	have	a	very	different	layout	than	a	Victorian	one.

Because	house	systems	are	arbitrary—there	are	no	lines	separating	the	sky
into	twelve	parts—the	topic	of	which	one	is	best	is	fraught	with	controversy.	In
most	systems,	the	Ascendant/Descendant	(first	and	seventh	house	cusps)	and
Midheaven/IC	(tenth	and	fourth	house	cusps)	are	the	same.	It’s	the	secondary
houses—the	second	and	eighth,	third	and	ninth,	fifth	and	eleventh,	and	sixth	and
twelfth	houses—that	differ.	In	popular	systems	such	as	Placidus	and	Koch,	pairs
of	houses	can	vary	hugely	in	size	based	on	the	time	of	year	and	latitude	at	which
you	were	born.	Different	degrees	and	sometimes	different	signs	appear	on	the
cusps	depending	on	which	house	system	is	used.

Some	systems	simplify	the	issue	by	making	all	houses	the	same	size.	The
Solar	House	system,	for	instance,	places	the	degree	and	sign	of	the	natal	Sun	on
the	Ascendant,	then	the	same	degree	of	subsequent	signs	on	the	second	house,
third,	and	so	on.	The	Whole	Sign	system,	probably	the	oldest	house	system,	is
one	of	the	simplest	and	has	come	back	into	widespread	use	in	recent	years.	In	the
Whole	House	system,	each	house	is	the	same	size.	The	first	degree	of	the	sign	of
your	calculated	Ascendant	is	placed	on	the	first	house	cusp,	with	the	first	degree
of	all	the	subsequent	signs	following	counterclockwise	on	each	house	cusp.	If
you	have,	say,	10	degrees	of	Sagittarius	on	your	calculated	Ascendant,	then	0
degrees	Sagittarius	goes	on	the	first	house	cusp,	0	degrees	Capricorn	on	the
second,	0	degrees	Aquarius	on	the	third,	and	so	on,	ending	with	0	degrees
Scorpio	on	the	twelfth	house	cusp.

Personally,	I’m	agnostic	on	the	subject	of	house	systems.	I	inherited	the	Koch
house	system	from	my	teacher,	and	it	has	served	me	well.	But	I	have
experimented	with	the	Whole	Sign	system	and	liked	it,	and	if	a	client	requests	a
different	house	system	I’m	more	than	happy	to	comply.	I	picture	house	systems
as	different	lenses	a	photographer	might	use	on	his	camera.	Each	gives	a
somewhat	different	perspective.

I	recommend	you	calculate	your	birth	chart	in	a	number	of	house	systems,
then	watch	what	happens	as	fast-moving	transits	cross	each	house	cusp.	Most
likely,	one	system	or	other	will	emerge	as	your	personal	favorite.



likely,	one	system	or	other	will	emerge	as	your	personal	favorite.

WHY	I	HAVE	ORGANIZED	THE	HOUSES	IN	PAIRS
Most	astrology	books	that	deal	with	the	houses	of	the	horoscope	handle	them
one	by	one	and	sequentially.	In	this	book,	I’ve	chosen	to	group	them	into	six
pairs.	Each	pair	represents	two	houses	that	are	directly	opposite	each	other	on
the	horoscopic	wheel.	These	two	houses	are	always	the	same	size	in	any	house
system,	with	the	same	degree	of	opposite	signs	on	their	cusps,	and	the	areas	of
life	they	represent	are	opposite	and	complementary	as	well:

•	First	and	Seventh:	Self	and	Important	Others
•	Second	and	Eighth:	Personal	and	Shared	Resources
•	Third	and	Ninth:	Learning	and	Understanding
•	Fourth	and	Tenth:	Origin	and	Destination
•	Fifth	and	Eleventh:	Creations	and	Legends	(Legacy)
•	Sixth	and	Twelfth:	This	World	and	the	Next

In	my	experience,	transits	in	one	house	of	the	chart	also	have	an	impact	on
the	opposite	house.	Either	increased	focus	on	one	house	causes	imbalance	as	the
affairs	of	the	other	are	neglected,	or,	if	the	transit	is	especially	difficult,	we	may
choose	to	spend	less	time	involved	with	the	matters	of	that	house	and	“hide	out”
in	the	opposite	one.	If	a	very	slow-moving	planet	such	as	Uranus,	Neptune,	or
Pluto	is	transiting	a	house	of	your	chart,	you	might	find	it	helpful	to	read	the
section	on	the	opposite	house	as	well.

HOW	LONG	TRANSITING	PLANETS	ARE	IN	A	HOUSE
Again,	this	depends	on	the	house	system	you’re	using,	and	possibly	the	time	of
year	and	place	where	you	were	born.	Let’s	assume	the	houses	in	your	chart	are
all	roughly	the	same	size.	Typical	transit	periods	for	each	planet	in	a	single
house	would	be:

•	The	Moon:	about	two	and	a	half	days	out	of	each	month
•	The	Sun:	about	one	month	out	of	each	year
•	Mercury:	about	three	weeks	out	of	each	year
•	Venus:	a	little	under	one	month	out	of	each	year
•	Mars:	about	one	to	two	months	out	of	every	two	and	a	half	years
•	Jupiter:	about	one	year,	every	twelve	years
•	Saturn:	about	two	and	a	half	years,	every	twenty-nine	years



•	Uranus:	about	seven	years,	every	eighty-four	years
•	Neptune:	about	fourteen	years	(Neptune	will	not	transit	every	house	of	your
chart	in	your	lifetime)

•	Pluto:	varies	depending	on	Pluto’s	sign,	but	somewhere	between	fourteen
and	thirty	years	(Pluto	will	not	transit	every	house	of	your	chart	in	your
lifetime)

•	North	Node:	about	one	and	a	half	years,	every	eighteen	years

If	you	were	born	at	a	latitude	very	far	north	or	south	of	the	equator,	the	house
sizes	can	vary	dramatically,	and	so	can	the	amount	of	time	each	planet	spends	in
them.

HOW	TO	FIND	OUT	WHEN	A	PLANET	IS	TRANSITING	A	HOUSE
Consult	the	online	ephemeris	at	Astro.com	or	a	print	ephemeris	for	the	coming
year.	If	you	want	to	find	when	slow-moving	planets	enter	a	new	house,	you	may
need	the	jumbo	ephemeris	for	the	twenty-first	century.

In	any	ephemeris,	find	the	year	and	month,	as	well	as	the	planet	you	want	to
track.	Scan	down	the	column	until	you	find	the	date	it	reaches	the	degree	and
sign	that	is	on	one	of	your	house	cusps.	It	will	be	in	that	house	(except	for
retrograde	periods)	until	the	date	when	it	reaches	the	degree	and	sign	of	the	next
house	cusp.

For	example,	my	natal	Ascendant	is	at	1.54	Sagittarius.	Soon	transiting
Saturn	will	cross	my	Ascendant,	and	while	that	doesn’t	sound	like	the	happiest
transit	on	earth,	I’m	really	ready	for	Saturn	to	leave	my	twelfth	house.	To	find
out	the	date	of	this	joyous	event	(I	may	want	to	order	a	celebratory	cake),	I
consulted	the	ephemeris,	found	the	current	year	and	month,	located	the	column
with	Saturn’s	glyph	at	the	top,	and	kept	scanning	forward	month	by	month	until
I	saw	Saturn	changing	signs.	Finally,	on	January	12,	2015,	I	found	Saturn	had
reached	1.55,	just	one	minute	past	my	Ascendant	degree.	Cake	time!



SWISS	EPHEMERIS	FOR	THE	YEAR	2015



chapter	10
HOUSES	1	AND	7:	SELF	AND	IMPORTANT
OTHERS

P eople	seek	the	advice	of	astrologers	for	any	number	of	reasons,	but	the	most
common	of	these	is	relationships.	How	can	they	meet	someone,	marry
someone,	keep	someone	interested,	or	get	someone	back?	Is	a	spouse

cheating?	Should	they	leave	their	spouse	and	run	away	with	their
boyfriend/girlfriend?

Eventually,	I	mostly	gave	up	offering	advice	in	this	area,	because	I	became
convinced	that	my	clients,	however	sincere	and	well-meaning,	were	asking	the
wrong	questions.	Mind	you,	they’re	a	lot	of	the	same	questions	I	asked	when	I
was	single,	and	they	were	the	wrong	questions	then,	too.	Every	minute	of	my
life,	I	was	looking	for	love.	It	wasn’t	until	I	took	a	brief	intermission	from	that
search	to	focus	on	something	else	important	to	me	that	I	finally	became	the
person	I	needed	to	be	to	find	love.

That’s	the	dichotomy	of	the	first	and	seventh	house	axis.	The	first	house	is	the
house	of	self	and	identity,	the	house	of	“me.”	The	seventh	house	is	the	house	of
significant	others,	the	house	of	“you”	and	of	“us.”	When	we	picture	being	in	a
relationship,	that	picture	features	an	idealized	version	of	ourselves—the	right
weight,	looking	happy,	with	a	satisfying	career	and	the	perfect	haircut.	Which	is
all	well	and	good,	except	that	on	some	level	we	assume	that	the	idealized	version
of	ourselves	will	be	achieved	simply	by	finding	the	right	relationship.	It’s	true
that	through	the	closest	relationships	in	our	lives	we	have	the	opportunity	to
become	better	versions	of	ourselves.	But	it’s	also	the	case	that	we	have	to	like
who	we	are	before	we	can	attract	a	relationship	with	someone	else	who	likes	us.

THE	FIRST	HOUSE:	BECOMING	YOURSELF
Traditional	name:	House	of	Self
Terrain:	individuality,	selfhood,	personality,	physical	appearance,	thresholds,
emergency	situations
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Aries;	the	planet	Mars
The	way	we	go	about	attracting	love	is	often	wrongheaded.	Instead	of	embracing



The	way	we	go	about	attracting	love	is	often	wrongheaded.	Instead	of	embracing
who	we	are	and	making	that	the	ideal,	we	try	to	mold	ourselves	into	some
creature	that	we	imagine	others	will	find	attractive.	If	we	succeed,	we	attract	the
partner	we	also	think	looks	attractive.	But	unfortunately	we	end	up	with
someone	who	is	attractive,	and	possibly	a	very	nice	person,	but	who	doesn’t
really	suit	who	we	are	inside.

The	only	way	to	have	good	relationships	is	to	accept	yourself	as	you	are	and
where	you’re	at	now,	and	that	is	first	house	work.	If	you	need	serious
improvement	(and	who	among	us	doesn’t?),	get	to	work	overhauling	yourself.
As	your	teachers	used	to	say,	keep	your	eyes	on	your	own	work:	Find	the	look
that	works	for	you,	the	career,	the	house,	the	friends,	the	fun.	Fall	in	love	with
yourself	in	the	first	house,	and	the	seventh	house	will	take	care	of	itself.

When	planets	transit	the	first	house,	you	get	to	figure	out	who	you	are	and
who	you	want	to	become.	Sometimes	these	lessons	are	benign;	other	times
they’re	profound	and	quite	painful.	Most	of	us	will	encounter	both,	and	all	have
something	interesting	to	teach	about	the	people	we	want	to	be	and	the	people
with	whom	we	want	to	share	our	lives.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

A	friend	of	mine	had	a	very	good	method	for	deciding	whether	a	new	outfit	or
hairstyle	was	right	for	her.	“I	just	look	in	the	mirror,”	she	said,	“and	ask,	‘Do	I
look	like	myself?’”	That’s	just	the	question	to	ask	when	the	transiting	Sun	is	in
your	first	house.	Do	your	outsides	match	your	insides?	Do	others	see	you	as	you
truly	are?	Do	you	look	like	yourself?

The	Sun	will	not	be	satisfied	this	month	until	you	are	able	to	look	yourself	in
the	eye	and	smile.	Yes,	you	look	like	yourself.	Yes,	you	like	what	you	see.	And
if	some	people	don’t	seem	to	like	you	as	you	are,	well,	you’ll	just	have	to	spend
more	time	with	the	people	who	do	instead.

This	month,	to	the	extent	that	you	can,	put	yourself	first.	Oh,	I	know—you
have	kids,	you	have	commitments.	I	get	it.	But	I’ll	bet	you	can	find	fifteen
minutes	each	day	to	put	yourself	first.	Driving	to	work,	for	instance:	Instead	of
spending	that	time	coming	up	with	new	and	more	colorful	ways	to	call	someone
an	idiot,	use	it	to	listen	to	an	audiobook.	Use	it	to	sing,	to	shout.	Use	it	for	you.

Most	of	all,	the	Sun’s	transit	of	the	first	house	is	a	time	to	challenge	yourself.
Eleanor	Roosevelt	once	said,	“You	must	do	the	thing	you	think	you	cannot	do.”
And	this	is	the	month	to	do	it.	Tackle	frightening	tasks	this	month	and	you’ll
find	they	probably	increase	not	only	your	vitality	but	also	your	overall	sense	of
well-being	and	happiness.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE



TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

This	is	a	fleeting	and	minor	transit,	with	the	Moon	moving	through	a	house	of
your	chart	roughly	every	two	and	a	half	days	of	every	month.	The	Moon	is	a
changeable	influence,	and	as	it	moves	through	the	first	house,	your	self-
assurance	may	be	a	bit	wobbly.	On	the	plus	side,	this	can	be	a	good	period	to	try
a	new	look	or	to	make	small	changes	in	the	daily	habits	that	affect	your
appearance	and	strength.

The	most	important	lunar	transit	here	comes	each	year	in	the	month	when	the
New	Moon	falls	in	the	first	house	of	your	chart.	This	is	a	powerful	New	Moon
for	setting	intentions	related	to	your	appearance,	personality,	physical	strength,
courage,	and	willingness	to	try	something	new.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

Mercury	moves	quickly	and	will	usually	transit	each	house	of	your	chart	in	a	few
weeks	(except	when	it	is	retrograde—then	you	can	tack	on	an	extra	week).
Mercury	is	the	planet	of	the	mind,	perception,	and	communication,	so	when	it
transits	the	first	house	you’ll	be	thinking	(and	probably	talking)	a	lot	about
yourself:	who	you	are,	what	you	want,	how	you	look,	and	where	you	want	to	be.
You	will	be	curious	about	how	to	improve	this	area	of	your	life,	interested	in
talking	about	these	subjects	with	others,	and	eager	to	read	everything	you	can
about	them.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

Venus	represents	what	we	enjoy	and	is	also	associated	with	money	and	property.
When	Venus	transits	the	first	house,	beautify	and	enjoy	yourself.

During	this	month,	indulge	in	some	pampering.	Take	special	care	with	your
appearance;	if	it’s	within	your	budget,	a	trip	to	a	salon	or	spa	could	be	a
wonderful	treat.	Have	a	professional	advise	you	about	your	hairstyle	or
wardrobe.	Also,	be	more	gracious	in	your	approach	to	others.	Venus’s	gifts	are
beauty	and	charm,	so	you	should	be	able	to	handle	conflicts	diplomatically	now,
disarming	even	your	fiercest	opponents.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

This	transit	is	energizing,	especially	physically.	You	may	feel	particularly
motivated	and	self-directed,	if	a	little	bit	impulsive.	But	there	is	a	caveat	here:
Mars	can	dump	a	heaping	dose	of	conflict	at	your	door	when	it	transits	the	first
house.	If	it	seems	everyone	is	picking	a	fight	with	you,	there	are	two
possibilities.	One	is	that	you	have	a	lot	of	anger	or	frustration	poking	its	head
out,	looking	for	a	way	to	get	engaged.	The	other	is	that	you	are	being	provoked
into	showing	anger	or	standing	up	for	yourself	in	a	way	that	is	absolutely
legitimate	but	often	hard	for	you	to	do.	This	transit	is	an	opportunity	to	learn



legitimate	but	often	hard	for	you	to	do.	This	transit	is	an	opportunity	to	learn
something	about	sticking	up	for	yourself	without	sticking	it	to	anyone	else.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

The	old	joke	among	astrologers	is	that	when	Jupiter—a	planet	everyone	calls
“expansive”—transits	your	first	house,	you’ll	gain	a	bunch	of	weight.	That	isn’t
necessarily	the	case,	but	it	is	true	that	limits	are	easily	adjusted	and	belt	notches
loosened	when	Jupiter	visits	this	part	of	your	chart.	Jupiter	loves	to	eat,	drink,
and	have	a	great	time.	While	Jupiter	is	in	your	first	house,	it’s	often	easier	than
usual	to	project	a	jolly,	fun-loving,	generous	persona.	Jupiter	is	usually	described
as	a	“lucky”	planet,	but	while	he	transits	here,	you	truly	make	your	own	luck.	A
merry	disposition	generally	attracts	goodwill,	and	you	are	likely	to	have	more
than	your	share	by	the	time	Jupiter	moves	on.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

When	Saturn	transits	your	first	house,	you	may	seem	to	age	overnight.	You	meet
each	new	situation	with	gravity	and	maturity,	taking	on	more	responsibility	than
you	probably	need	to.	If	you	are	carrying	literal	extra	weight,	Saturn	in	the	first
house	will	likely	help	you	slim	down	through	his	rigid	discipline	and	goal
setting.	Your	grooming	and	dress	may	become	more	subdued	and	tailored.

The	biggest	challenge	with	Saturn	transiting	your	first	house	is	resisting	a
pessimistic	attitude.	Saturn	tends	to	focus	on	what	is	wrong	rather	than	what’s
right.	You	may	also	have	difficulty	expressing	your	personality	in	a	natural,
unselfconscious	way.	Be	patient	with	yourself	and	limit	your	self-criticism	to
correcting	characteristics	that	make	you	less	effective.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

BOOM!	Uranus	entering	the	first	house	is	like	a	thunderclap.	If	you’ve	been
living	a	less	than	authentic	life,	tethered	to	rules	and	restrictions	and	governed	by
fear,	you	will	be	startled	awake	and	eager	to	liberate	yourself.	It’s	time	for
reinvention,	of	everything	from	your	appearance	to	your	career	to	your	ethics
and	morality.	The	process	will	be	very	disruptive	to	the	life	you’ve	built	for
yourself,	and	possibly	upsetting	to	yourself	and	others,	but	undeniably	freeing
and	exciting.	Some	days,	you’ll	feel	you	no	longer	know	yourself.	The	truth	is,
you	don’t.	This	transit	can	usher	in	one	of	the	most	dramatic	overall	changes	of
your	lifetime.	The	work	now	is	to	let	yourself	change;	you	can	get	reacquainted
with	yourself	later.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

Transiting	Neptune	can	be	a	siren	that	comes	to	your	door	and	calls	you	far	from
home,	sometimes	literally,	but	sometimes	by	taking	you	into	the	otherworldly



home,	sometimes	literally,	but	sometimes	by	taking	you	into	the	otherworldly
realm	of	spirit,	music,	or	metaphysics.	You	may	find	yourself	in	a	place	or
circumstances	that	are	so	different	as	to	be	utterly	disorienting,	and	that	call	into
question	everything	you	knew	about	yourself.	With	Neptune,	there	is	nearly
always	some	kind	of	loss	or	sadness,	the	kind	a	sailor	feels	as	he	sets	out	to	sea.
But	in	order	to	explore	new	waters,	you	must	pull	up	anchor	and	wave	good-bye
to	some	people	who	will	be	left	behind	on	shore.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

Transiting	Pluto	in	the	first	house	will	change	the	landscape	of	your	life	just	as
surely	as	Uranus	or	Neptune	will.	But	the	effect	of	Pluto	transiting	this	house	is
to	strip	you	bare	of	any	artifice	or	insincerity,	like	an	actress	caught	by	the
paparazzi	without	her	makeup.	You	won’t	always	look	or	behave	your	best
during	this	transit.	In	new	and	extremely	challenging	territory,	you	may	struggle
to	find	a	way	to	cope.	You	are	like	a	wall	being	sanded	down	in	preparation	for	a
new	coat	of	paint.	By	the	end	of	this	transit,	you’ll	probably	be	a	lot	less	eager	to
please	others	than	you	were	at	the	beginning	of	it.	And	when	you	look	in	the
mirror,	you’ll	see	a	stronger,	truer	version	of	yourself.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	FIRST	HOUSE

As	the	North	Node	transits	your	first	house,	the	road	to	happiness	lies	in	putting
yourself	first.	This	is	easier	for	some	of	us	than	for	others.	Putting	yourself	first
doesn’t	mean	you	will	give	nothing	to	your	loved	ones.	This	transit	comes
around	only	once	every	eighteen	years,	so	you	needn’t	worry	that	it	is	going	to
make	you	a	selfish	egomaniac!	In	fact,	as	the	North	Node	transits	the	first	house,
the	South	Node,	representing	what’s	easy	and	comfortable,	is	in	the	people-
pleasing	seventh	house.	If	your	instinctual	response	in	every	situation	is	to	honor
others’	needs,	that	must	be	brought	into	balance	by	having	more	respect	for	your
own.

THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE:	GROWING	WITH	IMPORTANT	OTHERS
Traditional	name:	House	of	Marriage
Terrain:	partners,	marriage,	relationships	between	equals,	open	enemies,
judgment,	negotiation,	arbitration,	mediation
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Libra;	the	planet	Venus
Traditionally,	the	seventh	house	was	called	the	House	of	Marriage.	To	our
modern	minds,	this	conjures	visions	of	romantic	couples.	Certainly,	we	find
committed	marriage	partners	in	this	house.	But	we	also	find	other	relationships



committed	marriage	partners	in	this	house.	But	we	also	find	other	relationships
of	great	importance.	This	is	a	house	of	equals,	so	our	closest	peer	friendships	and
business	partnerships	are	found	here,	as	well	as	our	sworn	and	open	enemies.	If
you	are	being	sued,	the	plaintiff	will	be	represented	by	this	house.

The	seventh	house	describes	your	close	relationships,	yes.	But	since	it’s	in
your	birth	chart,	it	also	tells	us	about	you.	So	the	seventh	house	symbolizes	the
way	others	perceive	you	in	relationships,	the	way	you	approach	relating,	and
whom	you	can	hope	to	become	through	close	relationships.

Transits	in	the	seventh	house	provide	catalysts	to	begin	or	end	relationships,
renegotiate	their	terms,	and	learn	significant	lessons	that	you	can	only
understand	through	your	closest	relationships.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

When	the	Sun	moves	into	the	seventh	house,	contemplate	how	to	have	happier
relationships	with	those	closest	to	you.	The	great,	bright	klieg	light	of	the	Sun	is
wheeled	in	so	that	this	month	you	can	scrutinize	and	evaluate	your	marriage,
best	friendships,	and	other	seventh	house	connections.	Is	your	best	friend	letting
you	initiate	all	the	phone	calls	and	lunch	invitations?	Has	your	marriage	grown
boring,	or	is	your	spouse	making	comments	that	make	you	feel	overlooked	and
unappreciated?	Is	a	rival	stealing	your	spotlight?	This	month,	bring	these
situations	back	into	balance,	so	you	can	shine	as	brightly	as	you	deserve	to.

If,	on	the	other	hand,	you	are	prone	to	nitpicking	or	criticizing	your	loved
ones,	practice	showing	care	and	acceptance	this	month.	One	of	the	best—and
hardest—ways	to	do	this	is	to	listen.	We	fall	into	a	habit	of	having	the	same
conversations	over	and	over	with	the	people	who	know	us	best.	Really	listen	and
ask	questions	now.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

For	this	brief	two-and-a-half-day	period	each	month,	you	get	the	opportunity	to
pay	attention	to	how	the	important	relationships	in	your	life	make	you	feel.	Be
careful	about	acting	on	these	feelings,	though,	because	the	Moon	is	completely
irrational.	You	perceive	offense	where	none	was	intended,	for	example.	Do,
however,	pay	attention	to	your	intuition	about	those	close	to	you	on	these	days,
because	sometimes	we	notice	what’s	really	going	on	only	when	we	are	guided
by	the	gut	rather	than	the	mind.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

Listen.	Really	listen.	Particularly	with	the	people	closest	to	us,	we	get	in	the
habit	of	not	paying	close	attention	to	what	others	say,	and	even	less	attention	to
what	they	don’t	say.	While	Mercury,	the	planet	of	perception,	is	moving	through



what	they	don’t	say.	While	Mercury,	the	planet	of	perception,	is	moving	through
your	seventh	house,	pretend	that	you’re	a	journalist,	investigating	the	lives	of	the
people	you	care	about	most.	Pretend	you’re	meeting	them	for	the	first	time.
What	would	you	ask	them?
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

Venus	is	right	at	home	in	the	seventh	house,	because	both	are	associated	with
harmony,	balance,	and	partnership.	If	you’re	in	a	long-term	relationship,	this	is	a
good	time	to	take	a	minivacation	with	your	partner,	or	at	least	schedule	a	special
outing;	you’ll	really	enjoy	each	other	now.	If	you’re	looking	for	love,	you’ll
certainly	encounter	some	appealing	prospects	during	this	transit.	Treat	your	best
friend	to	a	little	extra	attention	and	affection	during	this	transit,	too.	Where	your
rivals	are	concerned,	remember	what	Abraham	Lincoln	said:	“Do	I	not	destroy
my	enemies	when	I	make	them	my	friends?”
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

It’s	a	familiar	scenario	in	horror	movies.	The	spunky	heroine,	alone	in	the	house
on	a	stormy	night,	is	menaced	by	a	shadowy	foe.	After	a	series	of	harassing
phone	calls,	she	asks	the	police	to	tap	her	telephone.	Another	particularly
threatening	call	comes	through,	and	the	police	call	her	immediately:	“The	call	is
coming	from	inside	the	house!	Get	out	now!”

Brace	yourself:	While	transiting	Mars	is	in	your	seventh	house,	it	can	be
nearly	impossible	to	avoid	conflict.	The	hardest	part	is,	most	of	the	attacks	are
coming	from	the	people	closest	to	you—your	spouse,	best	friend,	business
partner.	The	seventh	is	the	house	of	closest	friends	and	open	enemies;	with	both,
the	time	inevitably	comes	for	airing	grievances.	While	Mars	is	transiting	your
seventh	house,	that	moment	has	arrived.	Just	remember	to	fight	fair—which
means	airing	grievances	without	name	calling	and	ad	hominem	attacks.	Fighting
fair	means	stating	what’s	important	to	you	and	not	backing	down	about	that,	but
doing	so	with	respect	and	trust.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

People	get	excited	when	they	see	this	transit	coming,	especially	if	they	are	single
and	unhappy	about	it.	When	the	luckiest	planet	in	the	solar	system	enters	the
house	of	relationships,	it	can	only	mean	good	things—right?

Yes,	but	it	may	not	mean	exactly	what	you	expect	it	to	mean.	You	will	almost
certainly	encounter	people	who	open	your	mind	to	new	relationship	possibilities,
who	encourage	you	to	take	risks	and	have	adventures.	If	you’re	a	good	student,
your	relationships	will	certainly	teach	you	a	lot	during	this	transit.	But	if	you’re
expecting	your	noncommittal	boyfriend	to	propose	to	you,	don’t	hold	your



breath;	if	he’s	not	certain	he	wants	to	be	with	you,	this	may	be	when	he’ll	call	it
quits—and	it’ll	be	the	luckiest	thing	that	ever	happened	to	you,	because	you
deserve	someone	who	will	really	make	you	happy.	Jupiter	may	bring	you	the
relationship	you	want,	but	it’s	also	a	planet	that	craves	freedom.	This	may	be	a
better	transit	for	liberating	yourself	from	relationships	that	feel	confining	than
for	leaping	into	new	commitments.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

Saturn	is	serious,	conservative,	and	respects	social	order.	Committed
relationships	are,	in	Saturn’s	estimation,	a	cornerstone	of	a	civilized	society.	So
when	Saturn	enters	your	house	of	relationships,	he	is	not	messing	around.	If	you
are	in	a	faltering	relationship,	Saturn	will	put	it	out	of	its	misery.	If	you	are	in	a
relationship	that	requires	a	commitment,	Saturn	will	push	you	toward	the	altar.	If
what	you	need	is	time	to	yourself	without	any	relationship	at	all,	Saturn	will
make	that	happen.

In	the	best	interest	of	society,	Saturn	will	not	let	you	get	away	with	any	funny
business.	He	needs	you	to	step	up	to	the	plate,	take	responsibility,	and	either
make	your	relationships	work	or	let	them	go.	While	Saturn	transits	your	seventh
house,	he	asks,	“Can	you	handle	a	relationship?	Do	you	really	want	one?	And	do
you	want	it	badly	enough	to	overcome	a	load	of	obstacles	to	get	it—or	to	keep
it?”
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

If	you’re	in	a	partnership	of	true	equals,	independence	is	already	a	vital	part	of
the	equation.	That	will	come	in	handy	as	transiting	Uranus	enters	your	seventh
house	for	a	good,	long	stay.	Uranus	demands	freedom	above	all	else,	and	during
this	transit	the	vitality	and	happiness	of	your	relationship	depends	on	each	of	you
having	plenty	of	it.	Obviously	the	relationship	must	come	first,	for	both	of	you,
but	unless	you	honor	and	nurture	your	independence,	making	time	for	your
individual	friendships	and	interests,	your	partnership	may	come	to	feel	like	a
Saturnian	obstacle	course	rather	than	a	nurturing	vessel.	And	that’s	when
transiting	Uranus	begins	to	look	like	a	wrecking	ball,	leveling	your	marriage	and
your	dearest	friendships.

Interestingly,	if	you	aren’t	in	a	long-term	relationship	and	would	like	to	be—
especially	if	you’re	a	bit	older	and	have	been	holding	out	a	long	time	for	the
right	person—this	can	be	the	transit	that	finally	brings	one	your	way.	Transiting
Uranus	is	associated	with	breaking	old	patterns,	so	if	your	relationship	patterns
have	not	served	you	well	up	to	now,	this	is	your	chance	to	break	free	from	them.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE



As	Neptune	transits	your	seventh	house,	you’ll	learn	a	lot	about	who	other
people	are	and	who	they	are	not.	Becoming	disillusioned	with	people	is	painful,
and	unfortunately	it’s	often	part	of	this	transit.	Usually	the	disillusionment	is
most	severe	in	the	cases	where	you	have	a	lot	invested	in	your	illusion	of	the
person.	In	all	close	relationships	and	partnerships	in	the	years	ahead,	what	you
thought	you	knew	about	people—and	in	fact,	your	confidence	in	your	ability	to
judge	character—continues	to	be	put	to	the	test.

The	positive	side	of	Neptune	is	that	when	you	are	really	clear	about	what’s
going	on	and	whom	you’re	dealing	with,	you	can	confidently	give	your	whole
heart	to	a	relationship.	What	we	experience	when	we	fall	in	love	can	be	a
beautiful	thing—as	long	as	we	know	we’re	choosing	to	believe	in	an	illusion.
Most	people	can’t	stay	happily	married	for	a	long	time,	for	instance,	without
believing	the	best	about	their	spouse	and	feeling	a	little	bit	in	love	with	him	or
her.	The	happiest	couples	seem	to	be	the	ones	who	manage	to	remain	in	love
despite	living	with	another	person	and	their	idiosyncrasies—loud	chewing,
leaving	the	toilet	seat	up—day	in,	day	out.

So	illusion	can	be	a	lovely	thing,	but	it	must	be	used	sparingly	in
relationships.	While	Neptune	transits	your	seventh	house,	it’s	particularly
important	to	be	cautious	about	the	partners	with	whom	you	choose	to	work	and
share	your	life.	Be	prepared	to	see	glimpses	of	the	real	person	peeking	through
from	time	to	time.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

You	may	find	relationships	difficult	during	this	transit,	but	you	might	also	just
find	that	the	people	closest	to	you	are	going	through	some	very	difficult	changes
and	challenges.	A	spouse	who	loses	a	parent,	a	friend	who	is	diagnosed	with	a
debilitating	disease,	a	business	partner	in	the	throes	of	a	midlife	crisis—all	are
perfectly	reasonable	ways	transiting	Pluto	might	express	itself	in	your	seventh
house.	In	any	event,	a	marriage	in	particular	may	need	some	bolstering	during
this	transit;	in	extreme	cases,	a	complete	renovation	is	in	order.

Pluto	transiting	the	seventh	house	demands	that	you	take	an	honest	view	of
your	relationships	and	that	you	allow	yourself	to	be	seen	as	you	truly	are	by
those	closest	to	you.	Things	“get	real”—everyone	shows	who	they	really	are.
When	you	get	right	down	to	it,	there	are	relatively	few	people	in	our	lives	who
deserve	every	last	ounce	of	our	devotion,	and	they	are	the	ones	with	whom	we
can	share	the	best	and	the	worst	of	ourselves.	While	Pluto	transits	the	seventh
house,	you	will	get	the	chance	to	figure	out	who	deserves	to	remain	in	your	life
and	who	doesn’t.	Relationships	based	on	anything	other	than	honesty	will	not
survive	this	transit.



survive	this	transit.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	SEVENTH	HOUSE

Are	your	relationships	fair	and	equal,	or	have	you	been	doing	more	than	your
share	of	the	heavy	lifting?	While	the	North	Node	transits	your	seventh	house,
and	particularly	when	eclipses	occur	in	this	house,	you’ll	increasingly	feel	that
you	can’t	continue	with	any	relationship	that	doesn’t	honor	both	individuals
equally.	Relationships	often	end	during	this	transit,	and	ones	that	don’t	will	need
some	fine-tuning	to	get	the	scales	in	balance.

While	the	North	Node	is	transiting	your	seventh	house,	the	South	Node	will
be	transiting	your	first.	You	may	be	tempted	to	play	the	lone	wolf,	remaining
alone	rather	than	meeting	others	halfway.	But	there	is	another	road	available,
one	that	leads	to	life-changing	relationships,	provided	you	have	a	strong	enough
sense	of	your	own	identity	that	you	know	how	much	you	can	afford	to	bend	for
others.



chapter	11
HOUSES	2	AND	8:	PERSONAL	AND	SHARED
RESOURCES

T he	second	and	eighth	houses	are	traditionally	known	as	the	houses	of	money.
But	to	get	to	their	essence,	I	think	it	helps	to	begin	with	the	most	essential	of
all	resources:	your	body.	Money	comes	and	goes,	but	your	physical	body	is

the	most	important	piece	of	property	you’ll	ever	own.
Your	relationship	with	the	physical	world	is	located,	astrologically,	in	the

second	house.	When	you	consider	that	the	eighth	house	symbolizes	other
people’s	bodies,	you	begin	to	understand	why	it’s	the	house	most	often
associated	with	sex	(the	ultimate	example	of	sharing	what’s	yours	with	someone
else).

Certainly,	money	matters—and	more	precisely,	the	money	you	earn—are
found	in	the	second	house.	We’ll	also	find	property	here,	including	the	clothing
you	use	to	adorn	your	body	and	the	furnishings	for	your	home	(though	note	that
land	and	your	actual	domicile	belong	to	the	fourth	house	of	the	chart).

Some	of	what	we	wish	to	purchase,	however,	is	beyond	the	resources	of	all
but	the	wealthiest	individuals.	To	accomplish	various	big-ticket	objectives
requires	access	to	the	eighth	house,	traditionally	the	House	of	Other	People’s
Money.	If	you	need	to	raise	the	money	to	buy	a	house,	you	will	usually	need	a
mortgage,	which	gives	you	the	use	of	other	people’s	money.	Should	the	state	in
which	you	live	wish	to	finance	an	enormous	public	works	project,	it	might	sell
bonds	or	collect	revenue	through	taxes,	both	ways	of	drawing	from	pools	of
shared	resources.	The	expense	of	a	catastrophic	accident	or	illness	is	the	reason
most	of	us	own	an	insurance	policy	of	some	kind,	which	is	another	way	of
pooling	individual	resources	for	the	use	of	all.

Finally,	there	is	the	difference	between	physical	evidence	(second	house)	and
that	which	is	invisible	and	unknowable	(eighth	house).	This	moves	us	from	the
second	house	certainty	that	you	are	a	discrete	individual	and	into	the	eighth
house,	where	you	explore	the	notion	that	all	of	us	are	actually	connected	in	some
mysterious	way.

Transits	in	the	second	and	eighth	houses	may	affect	you	in	a	variety	of
physical,	financial,	or	sexual	ways.	Depending	on	the	transiting	planet	and	the
condition	of	these	houses	in	your	birth	chart,	you	may	come	out	ahead	or



condition	of	these	houses	in	your	birth	chart,	you	may	come	out	ahead	or
experience	a	bit	of	a	setback.	Either	way,	you’ll	come	to	a	better	understanding
about	what	it	means	to	own	and	to	share,	and	to	live	in	the	visible	and	invisible
worlds.

THE	SECOND	HOUSE:	WHAT	IS	YOURS
Traditional	name:	House	of	Money
Terrain:	movable	property,	income,	confidence,	personal	values,	stability
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Taurus;	the	planet	Venus
In	his	delightful	book	Around	the	House,	David	Owen	tells	the	story	of	a	family
who	moved	to	a	new	house	with	two	young	girls.	The	younger,	Marie,	was	tired
of	living	in	her	sister	Mimi’s	hand-me-downs.	When	it	came	time	to	choose
bedrooms	in	the	new	house,	her	parents	told	Marie	that	for	once,	she	could	have
first	choice.	She	immediately	proclaimed,	“I	want	Mimi’s	room!”

Anyone	who	has	shared	a	bedroom	with	a	sibling	growing	up	can	tell	you	that
we	all	want	a	room	of	our	own.	Even	after	we’ve	grown	up	and	married
someone	with	whom	we	enjoy	sharing	as	much	as	possible,	we	still	hanker	after
our	own	space:	our	side	of	the	bed,	our	own	sink	in	the	bathroom,	our	own	home
office.	We	want	our	own	stuff,	too,	and	a	minor	infraction	such	as	swiping	the
last	bagel	at	breakfast	can	tip	an	unsteady	relationship	into	the	red	zone.

We	want	our	own	space	and	stuff	because	they	confirm	that	we	exist.	They
are	tangible	expressions	of	how	we	value	ourselves	and	how	we	expect	to	be
valued	by	others.	Our	stuff	and	spaces	reflect	our	personal	tastes	and	style,
declaring	to	the	world,	“I	am	a	person	who	likes	this,	and	not	that.”	As	kids,
we’re	encouraged	to	share	with	others.	As	adults,	we	have	a	lot	more	agency
about	who	gets	to	share	our	stuff	and	our	space.

The	second	house	of	the	horoscope	was	traditionally	called	the	House	of
Money.	That’s	a	succinct	and	not	untrue	way	of	putting	it.	But	digging	a	little
deeper,	we	might	say	that	the	second	house	is	where	you	use	talismans	from	the
physical	world	to	reinforce	your	identity.

Your	car,	for	instance,	says	more	about	you	than	your	ability	to	drive	and
your	need	for	convenient	transportation.	It	demonstrates	whether	you	value
speed	over	reliability,	styling	over	fuel	efficiency,	or	safety	over	all	else.	How
well	you	treat	your	car	once	you’ve	bought	it	is	often	a	gauge	of	how	well	you
take	care	of	yourself.	And	astrologer	Dana	Gerhardt	says	she	always	asks	her
clients	about	their	cars,	reporting	that	“the	ones	who	say	they	love	their	cars	are
always	happy	and	prosperous	in	their	careers.”



always	happy	and	prosperous	in	their	careers.”
The	second	house	is	also	the	realm	of	income,	specifically	the	resources	you

possess	that	can	be	exchanged	for	money.	These	might	be	marketable	skills,	but
also	personal	qualities	such	as	confidence,	self-sufficiency,	and	reliability.

Planets	transiting	the	second	house	bring	new	people,	events,	and	experiences
that	affect	your	world	of	personal	space	and	possessions,	and	your	ability	to	earn
money.	These	transits	may	also	signal	times	when	you’re	asked	to	share.	Are
you	cheerfully	willing	to	do	so,	or	do	you	begrudge	others	a	taste	of	what’s
yours?
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

The	second	house	symbolizes	your	money	and	possessions.	And	while	money
can’t	necessarily	buy	happiness,	your	attitude	toward	it	is	crucial	to	being	truly
content.

However	dissatisfied	you	are	with	your	physical	body,	possessions,	or
income,	make	a	conscious	effort	while	the	Sun	transits	your	second	house	to
count	your	blessings.

This	month,	show	respect	for	possessions	by	balancing	the	books.	Reconcile
your	checking	account.	Repay	loans	and	return	borrowed	objects.	Repair	or
recycle	broken	possessions.

And	finally,	invest	in	your	happiness.	Sometimes	this	means	charitable
giving,	other	times,	cheering	a	friend	with	an	unexpected	gift.	If	you’ve	been
putting	off	making	an	important	change	in	your	life	because	you	don’t	have	the
money,	this	is	the	month	to	start	investing,	however	modestly.	Find	a	big	jar	and
empty	your	loose	change	into	it	each	night;	something	is	better	than	nothing.

The	Sun	wants	you	to	be	happy.	This	month,	what	will	make	you	happiest	is
gratitude	and	appreciation	for	all	that	you	have.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

This	is	a	fleeting	and	minor	transit,	with	the	Moon	moving	through	a	house	of
your	chart	roughly	every	two	and	a	half	days	of	every	month.	The	Moon	is	a
changeable	influence,	and	during	this	transit	your	finances,	self-confidence,	and
willpower	may	be	a	bit	unstable.

Mostly,	you	won’t	pay	a	lot	of	attention	to	this	transit,	except	for	the	month
each	year	when	the	New	Moon	occurs	in	the	second	house	of	your	chart—
usually	the	same	month	when	the	Sun	is	transiting	your	second	house.	This	is	a
powerful	New	Moon	for	setting	intentions	related	to	your	finances,	your	body
image,	and	your	sense	of	security.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

Mercury	is	the	planet	of	the	mind,	perception,	and	communication,	so	when	it



Mercury	is	the	planet	of	the	mind,	perception,	and	communication,	so	when	it
transits	the	second	house,	your	focus	will	be	on	money,	your	body,	and	the	other
possessions	you	value.	You	will	be	curious	about	how	to	improve	this	area	of
your	life,	interested	in	talking	about	these	subjects	with	others,	and	eager	to	read
everything	you	can	about	them.	Mercury	is	always	game	to	learn	and	develop
skills,	so	this	is	the	time	to	master	technology	that	can	be	used	to	handle	your
finances	or	monitor	your	fitness	goals.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

Venus	represents	what	we	enjoy	and	is	also	associated	with	money	and	property,
so	it’s	right	at	home	in	the	second	house.

This	month,	spend	your	money	and	use	your	resources	in	ways	that	you
enjoy.	You	needn’t	overspend	to	get	maximum	enjoyment,	either.	Simply	giving
your	house	a	thorough	cleaning	and	rearranging	your	furniture	in	a	more
pleasing	way	can	do	the	trick.	All	things	being	equal,	you	probably	feel	pretty
flush	this	month;	if	you	have	a	little	extra	spending	money,	use	it	to	beautify
your	appearance	or	your	home.	Venus	represents	femininity,	so	females	in	your
life	can	have	an	effect	on	your	finances	or	property	during	this	month.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

When	the	god	of	war	comes	to	visit,	expect	passions	to	be	stirred	up	and
conflicts	to	emerge.	In	the	second	house,	the	subject	of	these	conflicts	may	be
your	assets.	Your	sister	may	accuse	you	of	having	too	much	of	the	ancestral
china,	for	instance,	or	someone	at	work	may	compete	with	you	for	a	lucrative
promotion	or	client	account.

Mars	also	brings	energy	and	initiative	to	the	areas	of	the	chart	that	he	transits.
When	Mars	is	in	the	second	house,	it’s	an	excellent	time	to	start	a	fitness
program	or	a	diet.	Trim	your	budget	and	curb	your	spending;	in	particular,	avoid
impulse	spending	(Mars	tends	to	act	before	thinking).	If	you’ve	been	trying	to
summon	the	courage	to	tackle	a	new	money-making	project,	ask	for	a	raise,	or
increase	the	prices	you	charge	for	products	and	services,	Mars	transiting	your
second	house	is	on	your	side.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

Transiting	Jupiter	will	spend	roughly	one	year	in	each	house	of	your	birth	chart.
What	happens	when	the	planet	of	higher	learning,	adventure,	and	“long	journeys
over	water”	visits	your	chart’s	equivalent	of	the	Federal	Reserve?

While	Jupiter	is	in	your	second	house,	you	tend	to	believe	in	yourself	a	bit
more	than	usual.	Perhaps	others	show	their	faith	in	you,	too—maybe	even	the
people	who	make	decisions	about	your	salary.	Generally,	while	Jupiter	is	in	the



people	who	make	decisions	about	your	salary.	Generally,	while	Jupiter	is	in	the
second	house,	you	will	see	an	increase	in	your	income	or	a	windfall	that	makes
you	feel	more	upbeat	about	your	financial	security.	Sometimes	a	more	positive
attitude	encourages	you	to	take	risks	and	make	social	connections	that	eventually
pay	off—literally.

On	the	other	hand,	if	all	this	confidence	and	optimism	gets	out	of	hand,	you
may	be	prone	to	overspending.	This	isn’t	usually	a	transit	that	brings	excessive
debt	into	your	life	(look	to	the	eighth	house	for	that),	but	rather	a	lack	of
prudence	about	economizing	or	saving.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

First,	the	good	news:	This	could	well	be	the	transit	that	helps	you	identify	the
career	that	would	be	most	meaningful	to	you.	And	while	Saturn	transits	your
second	house,	you	will	be	eager	to	invest	in	your	long-term	goals	and	implement
practical,	long-range	plans	to	improve	your	finances.

Wherever	Saturn	transits,	however,	your	chickens	come	home	to	roost.	If	you
have	been	saving	diligently	since	the	day	you	got	your	first	job,	this	could	be	a
phenomenal	transit	that	moves	you	up	to	the	next	rung	of	the	financial	ladder.
However,	if	you	haven’t	handled	your	finances	wisely	in	the	past,	you	will	likely
begin	this	transit	feeling	as	though	you	don’t	have	enough	resources	to	invest.	If
you’ve	been	taking	care	of	your	body,	you	should	look	and	feel	great,	but	if	you
haven’t,	you	will	probably	be	seeing	and	feeling	those	effects	as	well.	Learn
from	past	mistakes.	In	time,	and	with	patience,	you	can	still	build	the	physical
strength	and	financial	health	that	you	want	and	need.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

While	Uranus	transits	the	second	house,	you	will	probably	feel	a	strong	urge	to
liberate	yourself	financially.	That	sounds	like	some	glib	marketing	come-on,	but
it’s	actually	true.	Uranus	transiting	your	second	house	doesn’t	guarantee	that	you
will	have	everything	you	want	or	that	your	fortunes	will	change	overnight.	What
it	does	guarantee	is	that	by	the	time	the	transit	finishes,	you	will	be	free	on	some
level	from	financial	constraints.	If	you’ve	always	been	a	person	who	has	worried
about	money,	you	will	be	less	so.	If	you’ve	always	worked	for	a	paycheck,	you
may	end	up	in	the	tenuous	but	autonomous	position	of	being	self-employed.

While	Uranus	is	transiting	your	second	house,	you	are	growing	to	appreciate
freedom,	perhaps	as	a	result	of	meeting	someone	whose	life	does	not	emphasize
money	and	possessions.	You	may	move	into	a	place	of	your	own,	rent	an	office
or	workspace,	or	otherwise	carve	out	some	bit	of	real	estate	that	you	can	have	all
to	yourself.	More	valuable	than	any	amount	of	money,	you	yearn	to	live	life	on



your	own	terms.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

During	this	transit,	your	values	and	attitude	toward	the	material	world	might	be
increasingly	influenced	by	compassion	and	spiritual	yearning.	Under	such	an
influence	one	might,	for	instance,	give	up	all	his	earthly	belongings	to	join	the
Peace	Corps	or	the	priesthood.	It’s	a	wonderful	opportunity	to	bring	your	values
about	money	and	possessions	into	a	closer	alignment	with	your	convictions.

On	the	other	hand,	you	may	need	to	confront	illusions	about	materialism.
Have	you	been	an	idealist	who	insists	that	money	and	possessions	are
meaningless?	You	may	be	compelled	to	reevaluate	that	notion	during	this	transit.
One	possible	consequence	of	underestimating	the	power	of	money	is	the	refusal
to	acknowledge	the	link	between	one’s	most	limited	natural	resource—life—and
the	acquisition	of	money	and	possessions.	When	you	don’t	see	the	connection
between	the	two,	you	don’t	see	that	trivializing	money	and	possessions	is	the
same	as	trivializing	the	effort	that	it	took	someone	to	obtain	them,	or	the	possible
good	this	money	can	do	in	the	world.

Astrology	teaches	us	that	valuing	what	you	have	is,	in	a	very	real	sense,
valuing	who	you	are.	Refusing	to	pay	attention	to	money,	“forgetting”	to	pay
your	bills,	refusing	to	acknowledge	the	reality	of	your	financial	situation,	hiding
your	financial	affairs	from	important	people	in	your	life—these	are	what
astrologer	Steven	Forrest	might	call	“low-energy,”	or	less	than	enlightened,
responses	to	Neptune	transiting	your	second	house.

The	moral	of	the	story:	Money	doesn’t	mean	everything,	but	that’s	not	to	say
it	doesn’t	mean	anything.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

Pluto	was	the	wealthiest	of	the	gods—hence	the	term	plutocrat.	While	Pluto
makes	his	long,	slow	transit	through	your	second	house,	it’s	reasonable	to	expect
that	you	have	the	ability	to	make	yourself	wealthier.	That	may	be	true,	especially
to	the	extent	that	you	have	direct	control	over	your	earning	ability	(as	a
contractor,	for	instance).

But	where	Pluto	transits,	he	strips	away	everything	that	isn’t	serving	the
highest	good.	He	takes	things	we	don’t	want	to	get	rid	of	so	we	can	figure	out
what	we	actually	need.	So	while	Pluto	transits	your	second	house,	you	may	have
both	great	windfalls	and	disappointing	losses.	You	will	likely	go	through	long
periods	when	you	yearn	to	get	rid	of	all	the	stuff	that	is	using	up	space	and
cluttering	your	life,	and	live	a	more	Spartan	existence.	And	at	the	end	of	this
long	transit—possibly	as	long	as	three	decades!—you	will	know	what	you	truly
need	and	be	prepared	to	do	without	the	rest.



need	and	be	prepared	to	do	without	the	rest.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	SECOND	HOUSE

The	gift	of	this	transit	is	a	deep	and	hopefully	lasting	sense	of	your	importance.
The	confidence	of	the	second	house	has	nothing	to	do	with	being	more
significant	than	other	people.	It’s	simply	the	confidence	that	comes	from
knowing	you	have	a	place	in	the	world	and	that	you	are	valuable.

While	the	North	Node	transits	the	second	house,	the	South	Node	is	transiting
the	eighth	house,	the	house	of	support	from	others.	It’s	a	common	mistake
during	this	transit	to	imagine	that	you	need	others	to	validate	you	and	that
confidence	is	a	gift	bestowed	on	you	by	others.	Real	friends	will	support	you	by
encouraging	your	self-reliance,	not	your	reliance	on	them.

During	this	transit,	and	particularly	when	eclipses	fall	in	this	house,	you	may
confront	financial	challenges.	There	is	usually	a	change	in	direction	between
relying	on	others	and	gaining	confidence	by	proving	you	can	take	care	of
yourself.

THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE:	WHAT’S	YOURS	IS	YOURS	AND	COULD
BE	OURS
Traditional	name:	House	of	Other	People’s	Money
Terrain:	collective	resources,	insurance,	investments,	banks,	sex,	mortality
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Scorpio;	the	planet	Pluto
Ask	someone	if	she	feels	she	has	received	the	support	she	deserves	in	life,	and
you’re	talking	to	her	eighth	house.	Someone	with	difficult	planets	in	this	house
will	usually	say	that	no,	she’s	done	everything	for	herself	because	no	one	else
will	help	out.	Someone	with	nice	planets	here,	on	the	other	hand—say,	Venus	or
Jupiter—has	often	had	a	lot	of	help	from	others	and	may	even	feel	a	little	guilty
about	it,	or	somewhat	insecure	about	her	ability	to	provide	for	herself.

Opposite	the	second	house	of	personal	possessions,	the	eighth	house
symbolizes	what	other	people	bring	to	the	table.	Specifically,	this	house
symbolizes	your	partner’s	money.	Difficult	planets	in	the	eighth	house	suggest	a
spouse	with	a	complicated	or	diminished	financial	situation,	or	who	may	not	be
thrilled	about	sharing.	Nice	planets	in	the	eighth	house	suggest	the	opposite.

The	eighth	house	also	represents	pools	of	other	people’s	resources.	Insurance,
for	instance,	is	an	eighth	house	matter,	because	many	contribute	but	not	all
benefit	directly.	Taxes	are	ruled	by	the	eighth	house	for	similar	reasons.	Banks
are	ruled	by	the	eighth	house,	because	they’re	full	of	other	people’s	money.	If



are	ruled	by	the	eighth	house,	because	they’re	full	of	other	people’s	money.	If
you’re	applying	for	a	loan,	you	go	to	the	eighth	house	to	do	it,	whether	to	a	bank
or	a	shady-looking	underworld	figure	lurking	in	a	nearby	alley;	both	have	money
you	need.

The	adage	goes	that	sex,	death,	and	taxes	are	the	three	things	no	one	can
avoid.	Along	with	taxes,	sex	and	death	have	also	traditionally	been	associated
with	the	eighth	house.	Sexual	activity	ended	up	here	because	it’s	where	one
person’s…	er,	assets	are	comingled	with	another	person’s	assets.	And	while	the
French	refer	to	an	orgasm	as	la	petite	mort	(the	little	death),	there	is	a	more
direct	connection	between	death	and	the	eighth	house.	It	may	or	may	not	refer	to
actual,	physical	death.	(I	think	that	is	more	likely	the	purview	of	the	fourth
house,	but	I	confess	that	I	deliberately	skipped	that	lesson	in	astrology	school,	as
I’d	prefer	my	own	death	to	come	as	a	surprise.)	But	it	certainly	challenges	our
notions	of	mortality	and	the	mystery	of	what	comes	after	life.	The	eighth	house
is	where	you’ll	find	all	manner	of	experiences	that	transform	you	from	one
person	into	another.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

The	transiting	Sun	spends	just	about	one	month	of	each	year	in	your	eighth
house.	Probably	it	won’t	be	your	favorite	month.	Most	likely,	the	dark	and	dusty
recesses	of	your	psyche	will	be	thrown	open	and	the	gremlins	therein	will	recoil
from	the	light.	This	is	the	month	each	year	when	you	grapple	with	your	demons;
for	that	reason,	it	can	actually	be	a	pretty	good	month	for	replacing	toxic	habits
with	healthier	ones,	such	as	exercise	or	meditation.

The	eighth	house	is	complicated,	but	above	all	I	think	of	it	as	one	of	the
houses	of	passion.	In	the	eighth	house,	we	can	become	so	engrossed	in	a	pastime
that	we	completely	forget	who,	where,	and	what	we	are.

Sometimes	our	passions	become	compulsions.	And	I’m	going	to	offer	a	piece
of	advice	that	may	sound	odd:	While	the	Sun	is	transiting	your	eighth	house,
honor	your	compulsions!	Compulsions	are	signs	of	a	passion	that	are	trying	to	be
expressed.	So	become	aware	of	them.	Acknowledge	them.	Then	you	can
understand	where	this	unexpressed	fervor	is	trying	to	lead	you.

This	month,	make	room	for	your	passions.	Taking	time	to	listen	to	yourself
can	be	as	difficult	as	taking	time	to	listen	to	your	partner	and	friends.	There	are
many	demands	on	all	our	time,	and	of	course	it’s	always	necessary	to	prioritize.
But	just	this	month,	make	it	a	priority	to	give	some	time	to	something	you’re
passionate	about.

It	doesn’t	matter	whether	time	spent	with	your	passions	is	productive.	Forget
about	results!	Passions	may	lead	you	to	interesting	places,	but	that’s	not	the	only
reason	to	follow	them.	The	best	reason	is	that	they	help	you	feel	alive	and	happy.



reason	to	follow	them.	The	best	reason	is	that	they	help	you	feel	alive	and	happy.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

Second	only	to	the	Moon	transiting	the	twelfth	house,	this	can	be	a	low-energy
time	of	the	month.	You’re	particularly	vulnerable	to	absorbing	others’	emotions
now,	so	insist	on	carving	out	time	for	yourself,	alone	in	your	cave.	Your
intuition	is	at	a	peak,	though,	and	it’s	a	very	good	time	for	writing,	painting,
counseling,	or	doing	any	other	work	that	requires	empathy	and	the	ability	to	get
into	other	people’s	heads	and	hearts.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

Mercury	is	the	planet	of	perception,	thoughts,	and	communication.	This	is	the
moment	in	Mercury’s	cycle	when	it’s	time	to	ask	some	hard	questions,	both	of
yourself	and	of	others.	Natally,	this	is	an	excellent	Mercury	placement	for
research	or	detective	work;	it	describes	the	ability	to	read	extremely	subtle
signals	and	clues.	These	are	also	the	benefits	of	Mercury’s	transit	here.	On	a
practical	level,	there	are	few	better	transits	for	reviewing	your	investments	and
insurance	policies,	and	for	decluttering	your	house.	Any	task	that	requires	a	keen
eye	and	a	healthy	sense	of	skepticism	is	well	suited	to	this	transit!
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

While	Venus	transits	here,	you’ll	usually	receive	more	support	and	affection
than	you’re	used	to	getting.	If	you	need	to	apply	for	a	loan	or	ask	for	favors,	this
is	a	favorable	time	to	do	it.	Partnerships,	in	particular,	can	feel	supportive,
encouraging,	and	enjoyable	now.	Physical	relationships	are	especially	satisfying,
and	this	could	be	a	transit	that	marks	the	moment	when	a	close	relationship	turns
intimate.

It	may	sound	like	a	downer,	but	this	can	be	a	good	time	for	estate	planning.
Use	this	transit	to	ensure	that	your	wishes	are	documented	and	that	your	earthly
possessions	(including	your	body)	will	find	their	way	to	the	appropriate	people
and	places	when	you	are	no	longer	here	to	look	after	them.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

Mars	is	the	planet	of	conflict,	and	the	eighth	house	is	the	one	of	shared	resources
and	intimacy.	Think	you’ll	have	a	dust-up	or	two	with	the	people	closest	to	you
during	this	two-and-a-half-month	period?	Yeah.	So	do	I.

Mars	symbolizes	the	impulse	to	take	what’s	yours	and	to	make	things	happen
the	way	you	want	them	to.	Mars	transiting	your	eighth	house	can	be	healthy	and
beneficial	if	you’ve	given	too	much	power,	too	many	decisions,	and	too	many
resources	to	other	people;	this	will	be	a	period	of	correcting	any	imbalances	and
reclaiming	what’s	yours.



reclaiming	what’s	yours.
But	usually	they	won’t	just	hand	you	a	check	or	say,	“Yes,	you’re	right,	these

are	your	decisions	to	make.”	So	there	will	be	conflict.	It	might	be	about	handling
the	money	or	property	you	share	with	others,	or	fighting	for	an	insurance
settlement	or	inheritance	that	is	owed	to	you.	It	could	be	about	renegotiating	a
relationship	that	has	grown	codependent.	It	could	be	about	problems	with
physical	intimacy.

It	can	be	exhilarating	to	cut	through	the	often	hazy	territory	of	intimacy	to
say,	“This	is	what’s	really	going	on,	this	is	how	I	see	it,	and	this	is	what	I	want
from	you.”	Exhilarating,	and	kind	of	scary.	You	can	let	this	window	of
opportunity	close	without	doing	anything,	but	these	conflicts	are	not	going	away
—merely	going	underground.	Better	to	resolve	them	now,	while	Mars	is	on	your
side.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

When	Jupiter	transits	the	eighth	house	for	approximately	one	year,	should	you
expect	other	people	to	shower	you	with	their	riches?

Well…	maybe.	If	you’re	in	a	position	to	gain	control	of	your	trust	fund	or
inherit	a	huge	amount	of	wealth,	or	if	you	marry	a	person	who	has	a	lot	more
money	than	you	do,	this	transit	might	do	nice	things	for	your	bank	balance.

But	it’s	also	likely	that	you	may	assume	a	large	amount	of	debt,	even
something	large	such	as	a	mortgage	or	a	car	loan.	Remember	that	banks	are
ruled	by	the	eighth	house,	too.	So	while	you	may	be	in	possession	of	other
people’s	money,	it	doesn’t	necessarily	mean	that	there	are	no	strings	attached.

With	Jupiter	in	the	eighth,	you	probably	feel	optimistic	enough	about	your
ability	to	repay	a	loan	that	you	are	more	likely	to	make	long-delayed,	big-ticket
purchases.	You’ll	have	to	buy	insurance	(also	ruled	by	the	eighth	house)	to	cover
those	purchases.	And	to	some	extent,	taking	on	debt	can	make	you	less	free—
Jupiter’s	least	favorite	feeling.

So	Jupiter’s	transits	of	the	eighth	house	aren’t	necessarily	the	part	of	its	cycle
that	will	make	you	feel	the	wealthiest.	But	this	yearlong	period	can	expand	your
access	to	other	people’s	resources—for	better	or	for	worse.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

Saturn	is	a	planet	of	constriction,	rules,	and	deprivation.	But	he	also	symbolizes
the	strength	and	maturity	that	come	from	overcoming	daunting	obstacles.	During
the	roughly	two	and	a	half	years	Saturn	transits	your	eighth	house,	you	have
some	work	to	do	in	shoring	up	your	self-sufficiency.

It	is	all	the	fashion	today	for	well-meaning	parents	to	try	to	shield	their
children	from	disappointment	and	hardship	to	protect	their	self-esteem.



children	from	disappointment	and	hardship	to	protect	their	self-esteem.
Ironically,	though,	overcoming	disappointment	and	hardship	is	precisely	the
formula	for	building	self-esteem.	When	you	have	proven	that	you	can	take	care
of	yourself,	you	feel	much	more	confident.

The	eighth	house	is	where	we	find	support	from	others—financial,	emotional,
intimate	support.	When	Saturn	transits	this	house,	you	may	find	that	your
accustomed	sources	of	support	dry	up.	You	may	spend	a	couple	of	years
scrambling	to	build	up	emotional	and	financial	self-sufficiency.	The	frightened
child	in	you	may	holler,	“Won’t	anybody	help	me?	How	can	I	buy	a	house/eat
dinner	in	a	restaurant/raise	a	child	on	my	own?”

But	by	the	time	Saturn	is	finished	with	your	eighth	house,	you	will	have
proven	to	yourself	that	you	can	do	these	things	on	your	own,	or	that	you	can’t,	or
maybe	that	in	the	end,	they	really	weren’t	all	that	important	to	you	after	all.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

During	Uranus’s	long	transit	of	your	eighth	house,	you	will	almost	certainly	find
yourself	at	some	point	suddenly	alone.	The	person	you	trusted	to	hold	on	to	the
ladder	while	you	climbed	to	the	top	abruptly	disappears.	Someone	you	thought
you	could	trust	lets	you	down,	perhaps,	or	other	people’s	money—maybe	an
inheritance,	maybe	alimony	or	child	support,	or	simply	a	personal	loan—
complicates	your	life.

When	Uranus	transits	a	house	of	your	chart,	unexpected	developments	force
you	to	deal	with	the	matters	you	keep	there.	Some	houses	are	filled	with	creepier
stuff	than	others.	In	the	eighth	house,	we	keep	sex	and	death,	wills	and	trusts,
taxes,	and	all	the	terrifying	things	that	we	most	fear	will	happen	to	us.	Sudden,
unanticipated	occurrences	are	not	what	we	hope	for	in	this	area	of	our	lives,	but
sometimes	they’re	the	only	way	to	make	ourselves	deal	with	this	stuff.
Sometimes	they	are	absolutely	the	only	way	to	make	yourself	truly	free.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

More	often	than	not,	reality	is	hard	to	deal	with.	It	would	be	terrific	if	we	were
always	able	to	face	up	to	whatever	horrors	life	throws	at	us,	turn	weaknesses	into
strength,	and	grow	more	compassionate	and	empathetic	toward	others	as	the
result	of	our	experiences.	For	some	lucky	souls,	a	deep	and	abiding	spiritual
belief	system	makes	this	possible.

But	sometimes	pain	doesn’t	improve	your	character;	it	just	wears	you	down.
So	you	seek	solace	or	anesthesia.	For	instance,	you	wouldn’t	want	to	have	a	root
canal	without	a	very	strong	local	anesthetic.	In	the	days	after	a	death	in	the
family,	you	would	probably	prefer	to	hide	out	in	a	safe	place	with	the	people
who	won’t	make	you	cry.	If	you	have	lost	your	job,	a	couple	of	margaritas	with	a
good	friend	might	be	just	the	medicine	you	need.



good	friend	might	be	just	the	medicine	you	need.
Neptune	is	the	great	anesthetic.	Its	transit	through	the	eighth	house	can	be

welcome,	because	this	house	is	full	of	some	crazy,	often	painful	stuff.	It’s	where
we	are	vulnerable	to	all	kinds	of	hurt	and	betrayal	and	abuse,	things	we’d	rather
not	think	about.	Having	Neptune	transiting	there	can	make	it	all	easier	to	bear.

Unfortunately,	it	can	also	make	it	much	harder	to	deal	with	whatever	is	really
going	on,	so	you	can	heal	the	source	of	the	hurt	and	perhaps	even	grow	closer	to
the	important	people	in	your	life.	This	is	why	some	kind	of	spiritual	or
psychological	guidance	can	be	truly	helpful	during	this	transit—it	reduces	the
chances	of	giving	in	to	unhealthy	avoidance,	denial,	and	self-destructive	habits.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

This	can	be	an	important	transit	for	making	peace	with	the	interdependent	nature
of	life,	love,	and	relationships.	It	is	the	house	of	inheritance,	and	I	do	know	one
woman	who	came	into	a	sizable	inheritance	during	this	transit,	including	a	home
that	needed	a	complete	transformation.	But	the	inheritance	came	from	her	father,
and	their	relationship	had	been	acrimonious	and	painful.	Remaking	the	house
has	been	a	kind	of	healing	exercise.

Where	Pluto	transits,	he	may	bring	wealth	and	power…	but	there	is	always	a
catch.	In	the	house	of	other	people’s	resources,	we	may	see	the	lottery	winner
who	loses	his	friends	and	becomes	estranged	from	all	that	has	been	familiar	to
him;	a	man	who	inherits	a	great	fortune	when	his	partner	dies	of	AIDS;	a	woman
who	receives	a	huge	insurance	settlement	because	she	was	profoundly	injured
while	doing	her	job.

As	the	old	saying	goes,	be	careful	what	you	wish	for.	What	you	want	is	not
necessarily	what	will	make	you	happy.	Transiting	Pluto	in	the	eighth	house
teaches	that	wealth	and	gain	for	their	own	sake	are	mere	vanities.	The	best
course	of	action	is	to	appreciate	whatever	comes	our	way	and	try	to	use	it	for	the
greatest	possible	good,	while	remembering	that	we	ultimately	have	little	control
over	what	the	universe	will	send	our	way.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	EIGHTH	HOUSE

Can	you	trust	the	people	closest	to	you?	Are	they	there	for	you	when	you	need
them?	Do	they	show	you	the	respect	that	you	deserve?

What	about	your	possessions—do	they	serve	you?	Are	you	spending	too
much	of	your	energy	fixing	things	that	are	broken,	nursing	plants	back	to	health,
keeping	your	ancient	jalopy	limping	along?

While	the	Moon’s	North	Node	transits	your	eighth	house,	the	path	forward	in
your	life	depends	on	ridding	yourself	of	the	dead	weight.	If	someone	you’ve
been	calling	a	friend	hasn’t	phoned	you	in	ten	years,	what	you	have	on	your



been	calling	a	friend	hasn’t	phoned	you	in	ten	years,	what	you	have	on	your
hands	is	less	a	friendship	than	a	friendly	habit.	If	you’ve	been	giving	your
energy	and	money	to	a	cause	that	is	important	to	you,	but	others	are	not	showing
the	same	commitment,	you	may	need	to	let	it	go.	When	the	transiting	North
Node	is	in	the	eighth	house,	the	South	Node	is	transiting	the	second	house.	The
comfortable	approach	to	this	transit	is	to	maintain	the	status	quo	and	hold	on	to
what	you’ve	got.	But	if	you’re	living	in	a	house	that	is	too	large,	too	small,	too
old,	or	too	packed	with	junk	to	move	around,	you	need	to	get	some	boxes,	rent	a
moving	truck,	and	take	a	trip	to	the	dump.



chapter	12
HOUSES	3	AND	9:	LEARNING	AND
UNDERSTANDING

O n	a	popular	Saturday	Night	Live	skit	from	the	1970s,	Don	Novello	in
character	as	Father	Guido	Sarducci	proposed	his	idea	for	the	Five-Minute
University.	As	he	explained	the	concept:	“In	five	minutes,	you’ll	learn

what	the	average	college	graduate	remembers	five	years	after	he	or	she	is	out	of
school.”

The	third	and	ninth	houses	of	the	horoscope	represent	the	polarity	of
knowledge.	In	the	third	house	we	learn	remedial	and	necessary	skills,	gather
random	data,	and	collect	perceptions	and	impressions	about	the	world.	In	the
ninth	house,	the	level	of	difficulty	is	raised	to	encompass	teaching,	thinking
critically,	and	gleaning	meaning	from	perceptions	and	impressions.	That’s	the
stuff	we’re	supposed	to	learn	in	college,	tools	for	making	sense	of	and	finding
meaning	in	the	world.	But	as	Father	Guido	Sarducci	suggests,	the	mind	can	be	a
hard,	rocky	place	where	knowledge	is	not	easily	absorbed	or	retained,	let	alone
converted	into	real	understanding.

For	most	of	us	in	the	modern	world,	the	third	house	works	overtime.	There
are	new	ideas,	more	facts	and	figures,	and	never-ending	distractions	hurtling	our
way.	The	danger	is	that	it	can	be	difficult	to	slow	down	and	digest	all	this	brain
food.	Without	context	and	critical	thinking,	the	shiny	objects	that	distract	us
become	mental	junk	food.	This	is	why	higher	learning,	travel,	and	religion	have
traditionally	been	associated	with	the	ninth	house:	They	provide	context	and
encourage	analysis.

But	without	third	house	curiosity,	without	the	persistent	inner	toddler	and	its
maddening	“Why?”	the	mind	becomes	convinced	it	knows	everything.	Spend	a
few	minutes	at	a	cocktail	party	chatting	with	a	self-infatuated	professor	or	a
political	or	religious	fanatic	and	note	how	many	of	her	sentences	would,	if
written	down,	require	a	question	mark	at	the	end	of	them.	You	won’t	find	many.
When	you	know	everything,	the	world	has	nothing	to	teach	you.

When	planets	transit	the	third	and	ninth	houses,	you	are	called	to	explore	the
landscape	of	your	mind,	to	learn	new	things,	and	to	share	what	you	know.	Even
a	fast-moving	transit	in	these	houses	can	introduce	an	idea	that	has	a	long-lasting
impact	on	the	way	you	see	the	world.



impact	on	the	way	you	see	the	world.

THE	THIRD	HOUSE:	PERCEPTION	AND	COMMUNICATION
Traditional	name:	House	of	Communications
Terrain:	communication,	memory,	the	mind,	ideas	and	perception,	basic
education,	practical	skills,	your	neighborhood,	siblings,	short	trips,	land
transportation
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Gemini;	the	planets	Mercury	and	the
Moon	(traditionally,	the	Moon	is	in	its	“joy”	in	the	third	house)
Traditional	astrologers	referred	to	the	third	house	as	the	House	of
Communications.	It’s	a	great	deal	more	than	that,	but	communication	provides	a
helpful	metaphor	for	understanding	what	happens	here.

When	we	think	of	communication,	we	often	think	first	of	conversation.	A
conversation	requires	a	speaker	and	a	listener.	So	the	third	house	describes
where	and	how	we	speak	or	write	and	how	adept	we	are	at	listening	and
perceiving.

Communication	is	more	than	conversation,	though.	It’s	all	the	ways	we
express	what’s	in	our	minds,	how	we	feed	our	minds	with	ideas	and	perceptions,
and	how	we	notice	details,	label	them,	and	remember	them.

If	you	have	siblings,	you	developed	your	communication	style	directly
through	your	interactions	with	them.	They	knocked	you	down	to	size	when	you
got	too	full	of	yourself,	taught	you	verbal	sparring,	and	helped	you	figure	out
how	to	be	heard	when	other	voices	threatened	to	drown	yours	out.	Not
surprisingly,	siblings	are	also	associated	with	the	third	house.

Traditional	astrologers	specifically	assigned	“early	learning”	to	this	house,
and	it’s	usually	associated	also	with	mastering	basic	skills.	If	you	need	to	acquire
practical	skills	or	improve	the	ones	you	have,	transits	in	your	third	house	will
provide	the	impetus	or,	at	least,	the	opportunity.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

In	his	book	Man’s	Search	for	Meaning,	Viktor	Frankl	explored	the
psychological	reactions	he	observed	among	fellow	prisoners	during	his	time	in	a
Nazi	concentration	camp.	His	conclusion	was	that	a	prisoner’s	psychological
reactions	are	not	solely	the	result	of	external	circumstances,	but	also	result	from
his	freedom	to	choose	how	he	will	react	to	those	circumstances.

Make	no	mistake:	The	one	thing	that	can’t	be	taken	away	from	you	is	how
you	choose	to	frame	your	life.	Mind-set	is	destiny.



When	the	transiting	Sun	moves	into	the	third	house	of	your	chart,	pay
attention	and	be	mindful.	For	some	of	us,	this	can	mean	meditation	or	other
techniques	that	train	the	mind	in	a	particular	direction.

The	third	house	is	the	house	of	documentation,	so	it	can	be	an	interesting	time
to	track	how	resources	are	used.	Experiment	with	recording	every	penny	you
spend	for	a	month,	or	how	many	calories	you’re	consuming,	or	your	pulse	rate.
Start	keeping	a	journal	to	record	your	thoughts.

And	this	month,	make	resolutions	and	affirmations.	Affirmations—especially
written	ones—are	ways	of	focusing	the	awesome	power	of	the	mind.	That’s	the
first	step	in	creating	a	happier	life.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

Each	month	as	the	Moon	transits	your	third	house,	speak	or	write	about	your
feelings	and	pay	attention	to	the	way	others’	words	affect	you	emotionally.
Traditionally,	astrologers	consider	the	Moon	to	be	in	its	“joy”	in	the	third	house,
meaning	this	is	territory	that	the	Moon	very	much	likes	visiting.	Therefore,	it	is
one	of	the	better	times	of	the	month	to	write,	since	your	intuition,	powers	of
perception,	and	ability	to	express	your	feelings	in	words	are	very	strong	now.
However,	it’s	not	necessarily	the	best	time	to	have	sensitive	conversations,	as
your	emotions	may	actually	be	a	bit	too	close	to	the	surface.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

Mercury	should	be	pretty	happy	transiting	your	third	house,	since	the	two	have
much	in	common.	This	transit	will	give	you	an	excellent	few	weeks	for
brainstorming,	transmitting	your	message	in	an	effective	way,	mastering	a	new
skill,	or	beginning	your	novel.	Unless	Mercury	is	retrograde,	you	should	be
firing	on	all	intellectual	cylinders.	If	you	need	to	take	an	important	exam,	now
could	be	a	good	time,	since	your	memory	will	probably	be	sharp	and	your
critical	skills	at	a	peak.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

If	you	wish	to	persuade	or	charm	someone,	this	is	a	very	good	transit	for	it.
Something	about	the	way	you	speak,	write,	and	otherwise	communicate	with
others	is	especially	seductive	during	this	transit.	Likewise,	you	will	be
particularly	susceptible	to	the	way	others	communicate,	being	turned	off	by
coarse	or	impolite	language	and	utterly	charmed	by	someone	with	a	lyrical
speaking	voice.	Do	a	little	singing.	Ask	for	a	raise.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

You	will	tend	to	take	the	direct	approach	while	Mars	transits	your	third	house.



You	will	tend	to	take	the	direct	approach	while	Mars	transits	your	third	house.
This	is	very	effective	for	dealing	with	situations	that	require	courage	and
strength,	but	usually	disastrous	for	situations	requiring	diplomacy	(unless	there
is	a	Libra	influence	to	your	third	house).	That’s	okay;	there	will	be	other	times	to
charm	people.	Now	is	the	time	for	clearing	the	air,	telling	it	like	it	is,	and	setting
the	record	straight.	Mars	and	the	third	house	both	have	some	connection	with
automobiles;	keep	your	temper	in	check	and	your	road	rage	under	control	while
Mars	is	transiting	your	third	house!	Siblings	and	neighbors	are	also	found	in	the
third	house,	so	settle	differences	with	them—but	be	careful	about	saying	things
that	can’t	be	taken	back.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

You	and	your	big	ideas!	Stuffing	Jupiter	into	the	third	house	can	be	like	trying	to
fit	an	elephant	into	your	car’s	glove	compartment.	Your	mind	can	only	handle	so
many	ideas	at	one	time,	and	with	Jupiter	in	your	third	house,	you’ve	got	more
than	your	share.	Keep	a	notebook	handy	for	recording	any	and	all	random	ideas
that	come	your	way	during	this	transit;	you	can	always	pull	them	out	later,	one	at
a	time,	during	those	periods	when	ideas	are	few	and	far	between.

This	can	be	a	year	for	travel,	usually	longer	trips	within	your	own	country,	or
especially	short	trips	abroad.	Jupiter	has	an	expansive	influence,	and	the	third
house	includes	the	neighborhood	you	live	in,	so	you	might	move	to	a	bigger	or
more	ethnically	diverse	neighborhood	or	simply	develop	new	relationships	with
your	existing	neighbors.	This	is	also	a	good	transit	for	having	adventures	with
your	siblings	or	mending	fences	with	them.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

There	is	a	time	to	learn	from	books	and	example	and	a	time	to	learn	by	doing,
and	this	is	the	latter.	Whatever	work	you	do,	Saturn	transiting	your	third	house
marks	a	period	of	apprenticeship.	Like	an	English	literature	graduate	student
who	teaches	basic	composition	to	college	freshmen,	you	may	be	called	on	to
teach	others	in	the	basic	skills	and	techniques	of	your	field.

You	will	learn	the	hard	way	how	important	it	is	to	choose	your	words
carefully.	Others	are	paying	close	attention	to	what	you	say	and	look	up	to	you
as	an	authority	or	mentor—at	precisely	the	time	you’re	reaching	the	stage	where
you	doubt	your	knowledge	and	competence.	Part	of	Saturn’s	lesson	in	this	house
is	the	need	to	balance	intellectual	rigor	with	practical	know-how	and	how	to
handle	your	communications	with	others	in	an	ethical,	responsible	way.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

Wherever	Uranus	transits,	an	awakening	is	under	way.	To	the	third	house,
Uranus	brings	a	subject	or	focus	that	makes	you	want	to	study	hard.	Keep	your



Uranus	brings	a	subject	or	focus	that	makes	you	want	to	study	hard.	Keep	your
mind	open	during	this	transit	and	you	will	probably	find	the	path	that	makes
sense	to	you,	that	in	many	ways	has	been	in	front	of	you	for	your	entire	life	but
that	you	were	unable	to	recognize	as	the	path	with	heart.

Like	all	Uranus	transits,	this	begins	with	an	ending.	We’re	made	up	of	so
many	old	stories	that	we	tell	ourselves—“I’m	not	good	at	math,	not	physically
coordinated,	not	likable.”	When	Uranus	transits	the	third	house,	it’s	time	for
some	new	stories.	That	means	a	declaration	of	independence	in	one	form	or
another.	One	woman	I	know	impulsively	left	her	job	as	this	transit	was
beginning.	Her	boss	had	yelled	at	her,	and	then	she	calmly	grabbed	a	cardboard
box,	filled	it	with	her	personal	belongings,	and	simply	walked	out,	never	to
return.	Soon	after,	she	enrolled	in	college	to	pursue	her	long-delayed	degree	and
discovered	a	field	of	study	that	she	loved.

We’re	not	all	in	a	position	to	make	such	a	drastic	move.	But	while	Uranus
transits	your	third	house,	something	has	to	change	about	the	way	you	think	of
yourself.	Sometimes	that	begins	with	refusing	to	let	anyone—including	yourself
—speak	to	you	disrespectfully.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

The	mind	is	an	amazing	mystery.	The	ability	to	communicate	with	our	fellow
humans	is	a	wondrous	gift.	But	as	Neptune	transits	your	third	house,	you’ll	learn
something	about	the	limits	of	intellectual	understanding.

The	traditional	interpretation	of	this	transit	would	be	that	your	mind	will	be
cloudy	and	distracted,	your	communications	with	others	rife	with
misunderstandings.	But	this	can	be	a	very,	very	long	transit.	Personally,	I’ve
been	living	with	it	for	sixteen	years	as	I	write	this,	with	four	more	years	to	go!	In
that	time	I’ve	already	earned	a	degree	in	communications	and	launched	a	writing
career.	While	I	won’t	say	I’ve	always	been	the	sharpest	crayon	in	the	box,	I’ve	at
least	managed	the	fundamentals	of	scheduling	and	organization.

But	I	have	learned,	as	well,	the	importance	of	speaking	not	just	from	the	head
but	from	the	heart.	I’ve	learned	that	communication	is	not	just	a	function	of
finding	the	right	words,	but	also	of	using	them	to	express	what	others	have	a
hard	time	finding	language	for.	Siblings	are	also	found	in	the	third	house,	and
mine	have	suffered	profound	losses,	joys,	and	travails	during	this	transit.

When	Neptune	transits	the	third	house,	the	mind	must	be	opened	to	the
ineffable.	Expressing	yourself	poetically,	with	music,	art,	or	simply	great
empathy,	and	teaching	yourself	to	read	between	the	lines	to	better	intuit	what
others	are	trying	to	say,	even	when	they	say	nothing	at	all—these	are	the	great
lessons	of	transiting	Neptune	in	the	third	house.



TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

Back	in	the	days	of	my	youth,	comic	books	boasted	an	advertisement	for	X-ray
Specs.	These	marvelous	glasses	would	allegedly	give	you	the	ability	to	see
through	pesky	obstructions	such	as	clothing	to	see	what	was	really	going	on
underneath	the	surface.

Pluto	transiting	your	third	house	is	a	little	bit	like	being	gifted	with	a	pair	of
these	spectacles.	Instead	of	seeing	through	people’s	clothing,	however,	you	are
given	a	much	more	complicated	gift—the	ability	to	see	through	artifice	and
dishonesty.

You	will	not	abide	being	lied	to	with	Pluto	transiting	the	third	house,	and	you
will	become	far	more	astute	about	recognizing	when	it’s	happening.	In	the
movie	Fearless,	Jeff	Bridges	plays	a	man	who	survives	a	horrible	airplane	crash.
Subsequently,	he	finds	himself	completely	unable	to	tolerate	the	slightest	hint	of
dishonesty	or	manipulation,	occasionally	yelling	loudly	or,	in	one	instance,
slapping	the	perpetrator.	That’s	what	it’s	like	when	Pluto	transits	the	third	house.

Pluto	usually	brings	some	kind	of	dramatic	circumstances	that	help	you	probe
the	structure	of	your	life	for	weakness.	With	Pluto	transiting	the	third	house,	you
will	stand	for	nothing	less	than	the	truth,	from	yourself	and	others.	If	others	lie	to
you,	how	can	you	trust	them?	If	you	lie	to	yourself,	who	are	you?	Like	a	TV
detective,	you	will	stop	at	nothing	to	get	to	the	truth,	will	speak	your	truth
without	a	lot	of	delicacy,	and	will	see	the	world	in	much	sharper	focus	than	you
ever	have	before.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	THIRD	HOUSE

Time	to	bring	your	focus	and	skills	to	bear	on	a	long-contemplated	goal.	To	go
after	your	dreams,	you	need	to	fill	in	some	gaps	in	knowledge,	credentials,	or
skills.	This	transit	will	bring	eclipses	to	your	third	house,	and	the	need	to
improve	your	résumé	will	reach	a	critical	point.	Problems	may	arise	with
neighbors	or	siblings,	but	that	will	be	a	blessing	meant	to	move	you	to	a	more
nourishing	location	or	improve	your	family	relationships.

When	the	transiting	North	Node	is	in	the	third	house,	the	transiting	South
Node	is	in	the	ninth.	The	safest	action	is	to	stick	with	what	you	know.	But	the
road	to	growth	is	to	remain	curious	about	everything	the	world	has	to	teach	you.

THE	NINTH	HOUSE:	THE	QUEST
Traditional	name:	House	of	Long	Journeys	over	Water
Terrain:	beliefs,	higher	education,	philosophy,	the	quest	for	meaning,	foreign



countries,	overseas	travel,	teaching,	religion,	airplanes,	ships,	books,	publishers,
large	animals,	theaters	and	performance	spaces
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Sagittarius;	the	planet	Jupiter	and	the
Sun	(traditionally,	the	Sun	is	in	its	“joy”	in	the	ninth	house)
This	was	known	by	traditional	astrologers	as	the	House	of	Long	Journeys	over
Water	or	the	House	of	Philosophy.	In	some	cases,	transits	in	the	ninth	house	will
literally	carry	you	to	faraway	lands.	In	others,	the	journeys	are	metaphorical.
Let’s	say	you’re	invited	to	dinner	at	the	home	of	a	new	friend	whose	family
comes	from	a	country	halfway	around	the	world	and	doesn’t	share	your	language
or	background.	Strange	food	might	be	served;	you	may	not	understand	their
customs	and	etiquette.	In	all	ways,	you	are	being	challenged	to	stretch	and	adapt
to	a	very	new	experience,	nearly	as	much	so	as	if	you	had	literally	flown	to	a
remote	land.

There	are	many	ways	of	exploring	different	worlds	of	experience	and	of	the
mind.	When	planets	transit	the	ninth	house,	something	unfamiliar	will	come
your	way,	bringing	with	it	the	opportunity	to	see	the	world	through	a	larger	and
more	inclusive	lens.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

If	you’re	a	little	uncomfortable	during	the	month	that	the	Sun	moves	through
your	ninth	house,	then	you’re	on	the	right	track!	This	is	the	time	of	year	to
stretch,	to	experience	unfamiliar	ideas,	sights,	smells,	tastes,	and	sounds.
Contemplate	the	heavens,	figuratively	speaking,	by	thinking	deep	thoughts	and
having	important	conversations.	By	the	end	of	the	month,	you	may	find	you’ve
developed	a	taste	for	new	things.

It	might	also	be	a	good	month	to	literally	contemplate	the	heavens.	A	few
years	ago	I	was	in	New	Zealand	during	the	month	that	the	Sun	moves	through
my	ninth	house.	One	night	I	stepped	outside	into	a	cool,	clear	evening	and
looked	up	at	the	sky.	I	became	almost	dizzy—not	only	was	there	a	thick	blanket
of	stars,	but	the	stars	were	different	from	the	ones	I	was	used	to	seeing!	As	an
urban	dweller,	I	had	no	idea	that	I’d	become	accustomed	to	the	night	sky	until	I
saw	one	that	was	utterly	foreign.

Make	yourself	uncomfortable	this	month.	Ponder	the	big	questions.	Look	at	a
new	sky.	Happiness	lies	in	unfamiliar	constellations.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

During	this	time	of	the	month,	your	intuition	and	gut	reactions	have	a	strong
influence	over	what	you	believe.	If	something	doesn’t	feel	right,	you	can’t	be



convinced	that	it	is	right.	It’s	not	always	the	best	strategy	to	base	all	your	beliefs
on	gut	instinct	instead	of	exposing	them	to	logic	and	rationale,	but	every	now
and	then	it’s	healthy	to	subject	your	religious,	cultural,	and	political	attitudes	to
your	intuition.	The	ninth	house	is	associated	with	foreign	places	and	long-
distance	travel,	so	if	you	have	a	big	trip	coming	up,	this	can	be	an	excellent	time
to	do	a	little	planning.	Your	instincts	will	guide	you	more	strongly	than	usual	in
choosing	sites	to	visit	and	finding	good	deals	on	airfare,	lodging,	and	other
travel-related	services.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

When	Mercury	transits	the	ninth	house,	a	new	piece	of	information	comes	your
way	that	leads	you	to	question	how	you	look	at	things.	You	may	read	an	article,
hear	a	lecture,	or	catch	a	snippet	on	a	radio	or	television	program	that	introduces
an	entirely	different	line	of	thinking.	It	could	be	as	simple	as	someone	asking
you	a	question	and	you	realizing	that	you	don’t	have	an	answer.	It’s	not	the	most
comfortable	sensation;	our	beliefs	are	our	beliefs	for	a	reason,	and	we	generally
feel	we’ve	given	them	careful	consideration.	But	it’s	essential	to	keep	growing,
stay	flexible,	and	maintain	an	open	mind,	and	this	brief	transit	of	Mercury
through	your	ninth	house	will	help	you	do	all	those	things.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

Have	you	ever	heard	someone	say	that	hearing	a	piece	of	music	or	seeing	a	piece
of	art	for	the	first	time	changed	his	or	her	life?	It	may	sound	hyperbolic,	but	it
does	happen.	At	its	best,	art	has	a	transformative	effect,	elevating	your	mind	and
opening	up	an	entirely	new	way	of	looking	at	the	world.

During	Venus’s	transit	of	your	ninth	house,	make	an	effort	to	broaden	your
exposure	to	beauty,	art,	and	social	events.	These	will	provide	the	catalyst	for
opening	your	mind	to	new	concepts	and	may	even	inspire	you	to	broaden	your
life	experience	through	travel,	foreign	cultures,	or	simply	taking	a	risk.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

There	are	times	to	fight	for	what	you	believe	in,	and	one	could	argue	that	Mars’s
transit	of	your	ninth	house	is	one	of	those	times.	As	anyone	who	has	spent	a
contentious	Thanksgiving	meal	arguing	about	politics	with	their	relatives	knows,
forcing	your	beliefs	on	others	rarely	wins	hearts	and	minds.	Instead,	consider
how	you	can	put	your	energy,	initiative,	and	courage	to	practical	use	on	behalf	of
the	people	and	causes	that	are	important	to	you.

This	is	an	excellent	transit	for	embarking	on	a	course	of	study,	particularly
one	that	will	lead	to	an	advanced	degree.	Where	Mars	is	transiting	we	find	the
motivation	to	tackle	tasks	that	may	seem	daunting	at	other	times,	so	if	education



motivation	to	tackle	tasks	that	may	seem	daunting	at	other	times,	so	if	education
is	important	to	you	but	has	been	difficult	to	pursue,	now	is	a	good	time	to	try
again.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

Jupiter	is	in	his	wheelhouse	as	he	transits	the	ninth	house,	and	this	is	generally	a
time	to	think	about	how	you	could	be	living	bigger.	Long	to	travel?	Book	a
ticket,	or	at	least	apply	for	your	passport	so	you’ll	be	ready	when	the	opportunity
for	travel	arises.	Want	to	be	a	published	author?	Write	your	book	this	year.	If
you’ve	written	it	already,	it’s	time	to	look	for	a	publisher	or	begin	the	process	of
self-publishing.	Finishing	college?	Consider	graduate	school!

If	you	lack	inspiration	and	a	sense	of	adventure	as	this	transit	begins,	it’s	a
sign	that	your	Jupiter	is	undernourished.	Feed	it	books,	foreign	films,	ethnic
cuisine,	train	trips,	and	suitcases.	You	can’t	think	big	if	you	keep	your	world	too
small.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

It	used	to	be	that	if	one	attended	college,	graduation	marked	the	beginning	of
professional	life.	You’d	land	an	entry-level	position	in	your	chosen	field	and
begin	the	long,	arduous	climb	through	the	ranks	toward	mastery	and
accomplishment.

When	transiting	Saturn	is	moving	through	your	ninth	house,	you’re	in	a
similar	situation,	regardless	of	whether	or	when	you	graduated.	You’ve	proven
that	you	have	achieved	a	basic	competency	in	some	field	of	study	or	professional
development.	Now	it’s	time	to	share	what	you	know	with	others	by	accepting
your	first	important	professional	challenge.	It	will	be	one	that	stretches	you	to
the	limit	of	your	capabilities,	but	meeting	the	challenge	will	give	you	unshakable
confidence	in	your	abilities	moving	forward.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

A	friend	described	the	reaction	of	his	staunchly	conservative	family	when	he
revealed	he	was	gay.	“They	felt	they	had	to	either	turn	their	back	on	me	or	turn
their	back	on	God,”	he	said.	“In	the	end	they	chose	me,	but	the	decision	was	so
difficult	that	my	mother	says	she’s	still	mad	at	God!”

Wherever	Uranus	transits,	liberation	is	sure	to	follow.	The	problem	is,
freedom	is	scary.	When	Uranus	transits	the	ninth	house,	you’re	being	unmoored
from	your	belief	system.	For	some,	this	may	mean	leaving	an	established
religion;	for	others,	this	may	be	a	time	of	trading	one	ideology	for	its	exact
opposite.	Perhaps,	like	my	friend’s	mother,	you’re	confronted	with	a	case	of
cognitive	dissonance	so	extreme	that	it	shakes	you	loose	from	everything	you’ve
ever	believed	was	true	or	right.	Uranus	is	a	lot	like	lightning,	and	it’s	never	easy



ever	believed	was	true	or	right.	Uranus	is	a	lot	like	lightning,	and	it’s	never	easy
to	predict	exactly	where	it	will	strike.	But	one	thing’s	for	sure:	By	the	time
Uranus	leaves	your	ninth	house,	you	will	look	at	the	world	in	a	very	different
way.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

Like	Uranus	transiting	the	ninth	house,	Neptune’s	transit	here	makes	you
reconsider	what	you	believe	about	the	world.	But	Neptune’s	approach	to
bringing	about	change	is	generally	quite	different.	What	often	happens	when
Neptune	transits	the	ninth	house	is	a	softening	of	beliefs	and	a	deepening	of
compassion,	usually	based	on	experience.	Sometimes	we	have	to	go	through
hardship	or	have	direct	contact	with	others	who	are	experiencing	setbacks	before
we	can	really	open	up	to	others	who	are	suffering.

Neptune	always	insists	that	you	let	go	of	what	is	no	longer	viable;	its	journey
through	the	ninth	house	will	open	your	eyes	to	what	you	have	believed	is	untrue,
unkind,	or	unhelpful.	Let	those	parts	go	and	replace	them	with	kindness,	love,
and	compassion.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

What	needs	to	happen	as	Pluto	transits	your	ninth	house	is	for	you	to	come	to
terms	with	the	fact	that	life	is	inherently	beyond	your	control.	So	many	of	the
belief	systems	we	embrace	are	the	result	of	trying	to	feel	we	have	some	ability	to
influence	the	course	of	our	lives	and	even	the	lives	of	others.	But	as	Pluto	moves
through	your	ninth	house,	various	important	events,	usually	including	power
struggles	involving	institutions	of	all	types,	eventually	bring	you	to	the
realization	that,	ultimately,	nothing	is	really	within	your	control.	The	view	of
Pluto	in	the	ninth	house	is	that	nothing	has	any	inherent	meaning,	just	the
meaning	we	choose	to	ascribe	to	it.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	NINTH	HOUSE

As	the	North	Node	transits	the	ninth	house,	and	in	particular	during	the	months
when	eclipses	fall	in	this	house,	it’s	common	to	experience	a	crisis	of	faith.	As
the	North	Node	transited	your	tenth	house,	you	had	a	chance	to	review	your
standing	in	your	career	and	your	community,	your	status	and	reputation.	Based
on	that	review,	you	now	feel	the	urge	to	take	a	leap	of	faith	into	something	new.
You	may	not	feel	you’re	ready,	but	the	universe	sees	it	differently,	insisting	that
it’s	time	you	made	a	big	change.

The	South	Node	is	transiting	the	third	house	as	the	North	Node	is	in	the	ninth.
The	third	house	is	where	we	are	eternal	students,	asking	questions,	collecting
endless	pieces	of	data,	convinced	that	if	we	just	have	enough	facts	we’ll	know



endless	pieces	of	data,	convinced	that	if	we	just	have	enough	facts	we’ll	know
everything.	But	the	North	Node’s	ninth	house	message	is,	“You’ve	been	a
student	long	enough.	You	have	all	the	skills	and	information	that	you	need.
Now,	it’s	time	to	throw	yourself	off	a	cliff	and	learn	to	fly.”



chapter	13
HOUSES	4	AND	10:	ORIGIN	AND
DESTINATION

I don’t	recall	where	I	first	heard	it,	but	there	is	an	old	joke	about	a	lost	touristwho	asked	an	Irishman	for	directions	to	Dublin.	The	Irishman	thought	for	a
moment,	then	replied,	“Well,	I	wouldn’t	start	from	here.”
You	can	only	start	from	where	you	are,	of	course.	Your	starting	point	is

certain	and	unchanging—your	true	north.	Symbolized	by	the	astrological	fourth
house,	your	origin	determines	how	you	move	forward	into	the	world	and,	to	a
great	extent,	what	you	perceive	to	be	possible	for	you.	The	opposite	point	in
your	birth	chart,	the	tenth	house,	symbolizes	where	you	are	headed.	There,	we
find	not	only	hints	about	your	ultimate	destination	but	also,	to	some	extent,	what
you’ll	have	to	overcome	in	order	to	reach	it.

If	a	self-educated	young	lawyer,	born	to	dirt-poor	and	uneducated	parents,
came	to	you	and	asked,	“How	do	I	become	the	president	of	the	United	States?”
you	might	very	well	be	tempted	to	answer,	“Well,	honey,	I	wouldn’t	start	from
here.”	But	where	else	could	Abraham	Lincoln	have	started	from?

We	don’t	always	know	exactly	where	we’re	going,	but	we	do	know	we	can’t
stay	where	we	began,	in	swaddling	clothes	and	safe	in	a	cradle.	When	planets
transit	the	fourth	house,	they	indicate	a	journey	of	leaving	home,	finding	home,
or	perhaps	yearning	for	home.	Transits	in	the	tenth	house	compel	us	to	define
our	destination;	it	may	defy	every	expectation	the	world	holds	for	us,	or	it	may
be	exactly	the	path	we’d	be	expected	to	take.

Like	the	North	and	South	Poles,	the	latitudes	of	our	lives	constrict	at	the
fourth	and	tenth	houses.	The	terrain	of	home	and	work	can	make	us	feel	safe	and
offer	a	sense	of	belonging,	to	a	tribe	and	in	community.	But	they	can	also	be
places	where	we	feel	constricted,	confined	by	expectations,	and	limited	in	a	way
that	begs	for	escape.	Transits	to	the	fourth	and	tenth	house	axis	of	the	chart
invite	us	to	explore	the	balance	between	origin	and	destination,	and	to	negotiate
a	healthier	balance	between	safety	and	certainty	at	home	and	the	satisfaction	of
worldly	achievement.

THE	FOURTH	HOUSE:	WHERE	YOU’RE	PLANTED



Traditional	name:	House	of	Home	and	Family
Terrain:	home,	family,	history,	ancestors,	one	parent,	real	estate,	genealogy
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Cancer;	the	Moon
Why	is	genealogy	so	fascinating?	It	could	be	a	way	of	getting	to	know	the
ancestors	who	lurk	in	your	DNA.	Where	were	they	from?	What	did	they	do	for
work?	What	part	of	them	lives	on	in	you?	In	the	most	primitive	sense,	these	are
the	building	blocks	of	the	astrological	fourth	house,	like	a	big	old,	dusty	hope
chest	filled	with	your	backstory.	Your	biology,	your	biography,	one	of	your
parents	(astrologers	debate	which	one),	the	place	where	you	first	drew	breath—
all	are	contained	in	the	fourth	house.	Mostly,	the	fourth	describes	the	anchor	that
keeps	you	rooted	inside	your	existence.

When	planets	transit	your	fourth	house,	the	hope	chest	is	thrown	open.	The
dust	goes	flying.	Old,	creased,	yellowing	photographs	flutter	out,	along	with
memories:	an	afternoon	at	the	beach	when	you	were	very	small;	the	longing	in
your	mother’s	face	when	she	told	you,	soon	after	your	grandfather’s	death,	that
you	had	his	eyes.	A	bit	of	an	old	song.	Your	high	school	locker	combination.

There	is	yearning	in	the	fourth	house,	nostalgia,	safety—the	safety	of
knowing	who	your	people	are	and	where	you	come	from.	This	is	sacred	territory,
but	it	has	an	expiration	date.	You	can’t	stay	here	forever.	The	world	has	other
things	in	mind	for	you.	Planets	transiting	here	summon	you	to	sort	through
everything	you	have	been	and	decide	what	to	leave	behind	and	what	to	carry
forward	with	you	into	your	future.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

Think	of	the	people	you	know	whose	natal	Sun	falls	within	the	degrees	of	your
fourth	and	fifth	house	cusps.	The	ones	I	know	make	me	feel	happy.	They	feel
like	family.	They	also	make	me	a	little	bit	crazy	sometimes;	they	seem	a	little
too	cheerful,	a	tad	too	upbeat	and	positive.	They	lift	my	spirits,	but	they	also
make	me	feel	a	little	dark	in	comparison,	as	they	shine	a	light	into	the	shameful,
jealous,	mean-spirited	parts	of	me	that	I’d	prefer	to	keep	hidden—even	from
myself.

And	so	it	is	during	the	month	each	year	when	the	Sun	transits	your	fourth
house.	There	is	a	glimpse	of	what	things	could	be	like	if	you	let	your	heart	grow
sunnier.	But	it	means	you’ll	have	to	open	up	and	air	out	the	mustier	bits	of
yourself.	This	is	the	work	of	the	Sun’s	annual	transit	through	the	fourth	house:	to
brighten	the	spaces	where	you	live,	including	your	heart,	and	to	enjoy	the
creatures	that	share	those	spaces	with	you.

You	have	an	opportunity	this	month,	however	modest,	to	rewrite	history.	So



You	have	an	opportunity	this	month,	however	modest,	to	rewrite	history.	So
much	of	how	we	react	to	the	present	and	envision	the	future	has	to	do	with	the
stories	we	tell	ourselves	about	the	past.	Rewrite	your	history,	with	yourself	as
the	protagonist;	find	sympathy	for	yourself	and	forgiveness	for	those	who
haven’t	always	made	your	story	a	happy	one.

Lastly,	brighten	your	actual,	physical	home	while	the	Sun	is	transiting	your
fourth	house.	This	might	mean	doing	a	thorough	housecleaning,	hanging	a	piece
of	artwork,	or	tending	to	some	long-delayed	home	repairs.	Let	the	Sun’s	transit
of	your	fourth	house	bring	light	to	the	place	where	you	live,	inside	and	out.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

During	the	precious	hours	each	month	when	the	transiting	Moon	speeds	through
your	fourth	house,	hang	out	the	“closed	for	refurbishing”	sign	and	take	care	of
some	things	that	are	important	to	you	alone.	Sort	through	old	photos	and	put
them	into	albums	or	scan	them.	Scratch	the	cat	behind	the	ears	(okay,	maybe
that’s	important	to	the	cat,	too).	Cook	something	special.	Paint	your	bedroom.
This	is	a	time	each	month	that	should	be	devoted	to	a	bit	of	self-care,	and	you
alone	get	to	decide	what	will	make	you	feel	nourished	and	cherished.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

The	past	may	well	be	on	your	mind	while	transiting	Mercury	is	in	your	fourth
house.	Memories	and	perceptions	are	vivid	and	emotionally	compelling;	it’s	a
splendid	couple	of	weeks	for	creative	writing	or	for	catching	up	on
correspondence	with	loved	ones,	because	you’re	likely	to	want	to	share	your
thoughts	without	the	pressure	of	face-to-face	interaction.

Allow	Mercury	to	be	of	practical	help	at	home,	too.	Mercury	is	a	curious
critter,	so	let	him	loose	in	your	cabinets	and	closets	with	a	trash	bag	and	a	label
maker.	When	he	emerges,	everything	will	be	nicely	organized,	complete	with	a
written	inventory	and	some	lost	objects	that	he	found.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

When	Venus	transits	your	fourth	house,	you’ll	particularly	love	being	at	home.
Buy	beautiful	gifts	for	your	house,	like	new	guest	towels	or	a	fantastic
coffeemaker.	Invite	friends	over	to	fill	the	place	with	affection	and	laughter.	This
is	one	of	the	best	transits	all	year	for	making	your	space	more	gorgeous	and
inviting.	Fill	it	with	lovely	things	and	with	the	people	you	enjoy.	Your	home	is	a
reflection	of	your	inner	wellspring	of	contentment	and	tranquility,	so	making	it
more	pleasant	will	have	a	similar	effect	on	your	mood.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

Imagine	living	in	a	house	where	people	are	at	each	other’s	throats	constantly,



Imagine	living	in	a	house	where	people	are	at	each	other’s	throats	constantly,
where	workers	are	jackhammering	the	foundations,	or	where	a	bored	kid	spends
a	long	summer’s	day	repetitively	bouncing	his	ball	against	your	office	wall.	This
is	more	or	less	what	it’s	like	when	Mars	transits	your	fourth	house.	In	precisely
the	place	that	you	most	need	a	haven	of	sanity	and	rest,	there	is	discord,	noise,	or
disruption.

There	is	an	upside,	though.	If	there	are	projects	around	your	house	that
you’ve	been	putting	off	for	a	long	time,	this	transit	will	usually	galvanize	you
into	getting	them	started.	And	if	you	need	courage	to	confront	people	and	events
from	your	past,	now	is	the	time	to	let	Mars	slay	those	dragons	for	you.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

Sometimes	retreat	is	the	best	course	of	action.	For	instance,	when	you’ve	found
your	life	moving	in	a	direction	that	is	as	far	as	possible	from	where	you	had
hoped	to	end	up,	it’s	time	to	take	a	step	back	and	regroup.	The	fourth	is	the
house	of	home,	family,	and	the	quiet	place	within,	so	that’s	where	you	need	to
go	for	transiting	Jupiter’s	fourth	house	timeout.	Home	might	not	necessarily	be
the	place	where	you	currently	live,	by	the	way.	You	may	find	yourself	traveling
to	a	place	that	feels	like,	or	even	eventually	becomes,	home.

Wherever	you	go,	the	personal	growth	and	epic	adventure	that	Jupiter	craves
is	directed	inward	now.	Take	the	leap	into	your	deepest	self	to	discover	all	that
you	are,	understand	where	you	came	from,	and	remember	where	you	were
headed	before	your	life	brought	you	to	where	you	are	now.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

Home	may	be	bliss	or	it	may	be	dreadful,	but	it	is	something	most	of	us	can	at
least	take	for	granted.	When	Saturn	is	transiting	your	fourth	house,	though,	you
don’t	necessarily	have	that	luxury.	You	will	probably	have	a	roof	over	your
head,	but	you	will	have	to	struggle	and	sacrifice	and	work	fairly	hard	to	carve
out	a	place	that	feels	like	home	to	you.	You	may	well	move	to	a	new	place
during	this	transit.	Yet	the	fourth	house	experience	is	not	confined	to	the	actual
house	that	you	live	in	or	the	people	related	to	you	by	blood;	it’s	also	about
feeling	at	home	on	the	planet	and	in	your	own	skin.

Wherever	Saturn	is	transiting,	you’re	asked	to	examine	the	container	you’ve
built	for	some	part	of	your	life,	to	figure	out	whether	you	have	outgrown	it	or
need	to	make	it	stronger.	What	is	your	definition	of	home?	What	does	that
container	look	like?	Who	are	the	people	you	would	like	to	share	it	with?	What	is
the	foundation	that	your	life	is	built	on,	and	how	does	it	strengthen	or	undermine
you?	Examining	your	connection	to	your	family	is	key	to	this	transit.	You	may



find	that	your	family	grows	smaller	during	this	transit,	through	relocation	or
divorce,	or	as	grown	children	leave	the	nest.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

You	may	not	realize	it,	especially	if	you	still	have	parents,	but	the	person	in	the
world	you	most	rely	on	is	you—that	is,	the	person	you	are	when	you’re
completely	alone.	That’s	the	one	person	who	is	always	there,	looking	back	at
you	from	the	mirror	when	you	brush	your	teeth.	That’s	the	only	person	in	the
world	who	knows	all	of	your	secrets.	And	when	transiting	Uranus	is	in	your
fourth	house,	that	person	is	going	through	a	quiet,	private,	but	titanic	shift.

The	urge	is	to	break	free	of	the	way	you	normally	feel	and	seek	comfort	and
nourishment	in	new	things.	You’re	probably	a	little	tired	of	who	you	are	and	of
your	usual	tics,	games,	and	obsessions.	There	is	a	profound	restlessness	in	you
now.	You	may	want	to	run	away	from	your	home,	your	career,	or	your	family—
but	what	you	really	want	to	run	away	from	is	the	person	you	are	when	you’re
alone.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

Every	kid	who	ever	visits	the	beach—a	good	number	of	adults,	too—
immediately	builds	a	sand	castle.	Most	of	them	also	walk	down	to	the	waterline
and	trace	their	names	in	the	wave-slicked	sand.	They	stand	and	watch	while	the
waves	wash	ashore,	erasing	their	names	and	demolishing	their	castles.	If	the
person	is	very	young,	he	might	cry	about	it.	If	he’s	older,	he	may	allow	himself	a
rueful	chuckle	at	this	elegant	metaphor	for	the	impermanence	of	all	things.

While	Neptune	transits	your	fourth	house,	you	can	build	all	the	castles	you
like	and	write	your	name	large	for	all	to	see.	But	this	is	a	hard	time	to	build
things	that	last.	When	this	transit	is	finished,	you	will	no	longer	even	call
yourself	the	name	that	you	have	always	given	your	most	private	self,	let	alone
write	it	in	the	sand.	So	let	go	of	the	need	to	build,	the	need	to	make	yourself
permanent.	You	are	being	baptized	into	a	new	identity;	you	are	being	given	a
chance	to	be	more	loving	and	whole,	to	lie	on	the	sand	and	let	the	waves	tickle
your	toes.	It’s	a	long	transit,	this	one.	But	then,	it	can	take	a	long	time	to	wash
the	slate	clean.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

A	friend	of	mine	who	was	having	this	transit	said	it	felt	like	entering	the
government’s	Witness	Protection	Program.	It	began	with	her	finding	she	no
longer	had	the	capacity	to	be	dishonest	about	anything,	which	estranged	many
people	close	to	her.	By	the	end	of	this	long,	long	transit,	she	no	longer	felt	she
could	live	in	the	same	place,	and	she	literally	left	home	to	start	fresh	somewhere



could	live	in	the	same	place,	and	she	literally	left	home	to	start	fresh	somewhere
new.

Wherever	Pluto	transits,	it	reflects	a	complete	inability	to	bear	any	falsehood.
In	the	fourth	house,	Pluto	makes	you	unable	to	fool	yourself	about	who	you	are
or	where	you	come	from.	You	become	the	family	whistle-blower.	Living	with
Pluto’s	honesty	means	living	without	a	place	that	feels	completely	safe	and
comfortable.	At	the	end	of	this	transit,	though,	you’ll	know	where	you	really
belong,	how	you	really	want	to	live,	and	who	your	true	family	members	are.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	FOURTH	HOUSE

This	transit	evokes	the	moment	near	the	end	of	The	Wizard	of	Oz	when	Dorothy
wishes	aloud	that	she	could	return	to	Kansas.	Glenda	the	Good	Witch	points	out
to	Dorothy	that	she’s	had	the	power	to	go	home	all	along.

This	is	the	transit	when	you	truly	realize	that	whatever	fond	wish	your	natal
North	Node	holds	for	you	is	well	within	your	grasp,	and	that,	indeed,	the	power
to	achieve	it	has	been	within	you	all	along.	Sometimes	this	transit	involves
literally	sitting	in	your	home	and	working	on	something	that	will	eventually	lead
you	farther	along	your	evolutionary	path.	And	sometimes	you	simply	need	to
look	within	yourself	to	find	the	answers	you’ve	been	looking	for.	The	South
Node	transits	the	tenth	while	the	North	Node	is	in	the	fourth,	and	it’s	tempting	to
use	work	and	status	to	hide	from	these	tasks.

The	North	Node	transiting	your	fourth	house	means	there	will	be	an	eclipse	or
two	in	this	house,	as	well.	Eclipses	in	the	fourth	house	can	bring	changes	in
residence,	often	connected	to	your	career,	and	changes	in	personnel	at	home.
Most	of	all,	they	bring	a	sudden,	surprising	awareness	of	feelings	you	didn’t
even	know	you	had.

THE	TENTH	HOUSE:	BREAKING	AWAY
Traditional	name:	House	of	Career	and	Social	Status
Terrain:	reputation,	career,	calling,	ambitions,	one	parent,	mentor,	bosses	and
authority	figures
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Capricorn;	the	planet	Saturn
The	tenth	house,	according	to	traditional	astrologers,	was	the	House	of	Career
and	Social	Status.	Reputation	is	an	interesting	thing;	it’s	the	inherited	part	of	the
tenth	house,	the	part	that	is	yours	by	virtue	of	being	born	into	a	family,	with	a
particular	name,	gender,	race,	nationality,	and	religion.	It	is	heritage	made
visible.	If	you	aren’t	careful,	your	heritage	becomes	your	entire	future	instead	of
simply	guiding	you	to	it.



simply	guiding	you	to	it.
Make	conscious	decisions	about	how	you	will	be	seen	by	the	world.	How	are

you	like	the	family	you	were	born	into	and	the	people	who	shared	your	early
years,	and	how	are	you	different?	Do	you	want	to	live	the	life	that’s	expected	for
you?	Some	people	do;	they	love	it,	they’re	happy,	and	that’s	wonderful.	You
may	have	something	very	different	in	mind.

The	tenth	house	symbolizes	the	world’s	expectations	for	you,	but	the
challenge	is	to	claim	it	as	your	own	and	to	create	your	own	tenth	house	destiny.
If	you	can	glimpse	the	mountain’s	summit,	then	you	can	reach	it,	even	if	you
started	in	the	depths	of	the	valley	below,	and	even	if	no	one	else	thinks	you	are
equal	to	the	task.	Planets	transiting	the	tenth	house	aim	to	see	you	get	to	the	top
of	your	personal	mountain.	Sometimes	these	transits	bring	people	and	situations
designed	to	assist	and	inspire	you.	And	sometimes	they	help	by	letting	you	see
what’s	standing	in	your	way—even	if	it’s	you.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

While	the	Sun	transits	your	tenth	house,	ask	yourself	how	your	work,	your
calling,	and	your	legacy	can	make	you	happier.	The	tenth	house,	and	ambition
generally,	tends	to	have	the	opposite	effect,	making	us	feel	we’re	forever
lacking.

The	trick	to	enjoying	the	Sun	in	the	tenth	house	is	to	imagine	not	that	you’re
in	an	inferior	position	that	must	be	escaped	at	all	costs,	but	rather	that	you’re	in
the	perfect	position	to	get	where	you’re	going.	Part	of	that	journey	begins	with	a
plan—for	your	career	or	even	for	your	whole	life.	If	you	already	have	a	plan,
revisit	and	revise	it.	If	you	don’t	know	where	you’re	going,	you	won’t	recognize
it	when	you	arrive.

Also,	since	you	probably	work	plenty	hard	already,	work	smarter—and	learn
to	delegate.	Even	if	you	can	do	anything,	you	don’t	have	to	do	everything.
Partner	with	others	who	like	to	do	the	things	you	don’t	care	for,	and	vice	versa.
You’ll	go	much	further	with	help	from	others	than	you	can	alone.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

The	promise	of	the	tenth	house	is	not	achieved	in	a	couple	of	days,	and	that’s	as
long	as	the	transiting	Moon	gets	to	spend	there	each	month.	What	you	can	do
during	this	monthly	transit,	though,	is	examine	your	to-do	lists,	affirmations,	and
ambitions	and	give	them	a	gut	check.	When	you	imagine	having	accomplished
your	goals,	how	does	your	gut	feel?	When	you	review	the	steps	you’ve	taken	so
far	toward	achieving	them,	and	as	you	think	about	your	treatment	of	others	along
the	way,	are	you	completely	satisfied	with	the	means	by	which	you	are



approaching	the	ends?	While	the	Moon	transits	your	tenth	house,	make	sure	you
are	proud	not	just	of	what	you’re	achieving,	but	how	you’re	achieving	it.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

When	I	was	young,	I	spent	hours	lying	on	my	bed	filling	notebooks	with	lists
and	doodles	about	the	amazing	future	I	envisioned	for	myself.	What	is	a	little
surprising	to	me	is	how	many	of	those	visions	eventually	came	true.	I	didn’t
realize	that	what	I	was	doing	was	a	form	of	visualization	and	affirmation;	I	just
enjoyed	imagining	the	cool	things	that	might	happen	to	me	someday	and	writing
those	thoughts	down.

Whether	you	write	affirmations	at	every	New	Moon	or	never	write	them
down	at	all,	use	the	energy	of	Mercury	transiting	your	tenth	house	to	create
precisely	the	future	you	want,	even	if	it’s	only	on	paper.	Describe	your	future
self	and	life	in	grand,	rich	detail.	Write	a	press	release	about	your	imaginary
book,	album,	company	launch,	or	illustrious	reward.	Mercury’s	magic	lies	in
words,	so	use	them	to	visualize	your	tenth	house	future	and	commit	it	to	the
reality	of	pen	and	paper.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

What	is	your	calling?	A	calling	may	strike	the	modern	reader	as	a	very	old-
fashioned	notion,	or	as	something	singularly	religious,	such	as	a	calling	to	join
the	priesthood	or	to	serve	the	world	as	a	missionary.

But	the	tenth	house,	while	we	generally	think	of	it	as	a	house	of	career,	can
more	precisely	be	thought	of	as	describing	your	calling,	what	you	feel	you	were
born	to	do,	even	if	it’s	not	something	that	you	can	reasonably	expect	will	earn
much	money.	As	Venus	transits	your	tenth	house,	expect	something	pleasurable
to	lead	you	to	a	better	understanding	of	your	calling,	or	perhaps	some
unexpected	bit	of	money	to	allow	you	to	pursue	something	you	love.	Keep	your
eyes	open	for	examples	of	people	who	are	doing	what	they	love,	or	simply
loving	what	they	do.	They	are	showing	you	what	it	looks	like	to	make	love	your
calling.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

Ready	for	a	challenge?	When	Mars	transits	your	tenth	house,	the	Universe
throws	down	a	gauntlet	and	dares	you	to	pick	it	up.	Usually	it’s	related	to	your
career	and	comes	in	the	form	of	a	truly	audacious	challenge	that	you	would	have
to	be	a	little	crazy	to	accept.	Go	ahead	and	pick	it	up!

A	friend	of	mine	once	said	that	she	will	never	turn	down	an	amazing
opportunity	to	do	something	just	because	she’s	never	done	it	before.	She	says
yes,	and	then	she	figures	out	how	to	do	it.	That’s	exactly	what	the	world	wants



yes,	and	then	she	figures	out	how	to	do	it.	That’s	exactly	what	the	world	wants
from	you	when	Mars	is	transiting	your	tenth	house.	Blaze	a	trail.	Show	us	how
it’s	done.	Do	the	audacious,	impossible	thing.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

An	astrologer	shouldn’t	play	favorites,	but	this	is	one	of	my	very	favorite
transits.	Who	doesn’t	love	to	achieve	a	goal	and	win	accolades?	This	is	the
equivalent	of	graduating	from	university	with	honors	in	your	field,	so	celebrate
what	you’ve	accomplished.	It’s	not	exactly	all	downhill	from	here,	but	it’s	pretty
hard	to	top	a	great	Jupiter	transit.	Not	only	do	you	win	a	prize	that	has	been
coming	your	way	for	twelve	years	but	you	also	get	to	begin	dreaming	up	where
you	want	to	be	in	another	twelve	years.	Aim	high.	Think	big.	Expand	your	idea
of	what	you	think	is	possible	for	you	in	the	world.	The	only	limit	is	your
imagination!
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

As	transiting	Saturn	reaches	the	apex	of	your	chart,	you’ve	reached	the	end	of
one	twenty-nine-year	journey	and	the	beginning	of	another.	It’s	a	voyage	that
will	ultimately	determine	how	the	world	sees	you,	and	to	a	great	extent,	the	way
it	will	remember	you	after	you’re	gone.

As	always	at	the	beginning	of	a	new	adventure,	the	road	forward	is	not	clear.
You	are	probably	at	a	career	crossroads,	or	otherwise	coming	to	grips	with	what
it	means	to	be	a	grown-up,	in	charge	of	your	own	life.	What	do	you	want?
Where	are	you	going?	These	are	important	questions,	and	it	will	take	you	the
next	few	decades	to	answer	them	properly.

For	now,	it’s	not	important	to	have	answers.	Your	questions	don’t	have	to	be
all	that	specific,	either.	You	just	need	to	find	the	grit	and	tenacity	to	get	up	each
day,	set	one	foot	in	front	of	the	other,	and	move	forward.	In	time—even	by	the
time	Saturn	moves	out	of	your	tenth	house—you	will	begin	to	see	the	way	more
clearly.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

If	you’re	not	fully	committed	to	your	career	path,	it	will	not	hold	up	against
Uranus’s	transit	of	your	tenth	house.	And	it	probably	shouldn’t.	Uranus	is	like	a
natural	disaster	that	you	would	never	have	hoped	for,	but	that	ends	up	being	a
blessing	in	disguise	because	it	allows	you	to	start	over,	from	scratch.

Having	a	fixed	career	path	is	likely	to	feel	a	bit	itchy	and	uncomfortable	to
you	at	this	point	in	your	life.	If	you’re	close	to	retirement	age,	you’ll	be
chomping	at	the	bit	to	leave	the	world	of	nine-to-five	employment.	If	you	must
work,	a	career	that	allows	maximum	flexibility	and	autonomy	is	the	only	one



with	any	chance	of	longevity.	Working	as	a	contractor,	for	instance,	with	the
freedom	to	set	your	own	schedule,	is	an	example	of	a	situation	that	would
probably	feel	ideal	during	this	transit.

Your	life	has	taken	a	permanent	turn	in	a	different	direction.	This	can	be	a
very	long	transit,	and	there’s	no	telling	exactly	where	you’ll	be	at	the	end	of	it.
All	that’s	certain	is	that	you’ll	be	doing	a	lot	of	improvisation	along	the	way,	and
that	your	life	will	look	a	lot	different	by	the	time	this	transit	is	over.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

We	live	in	a	world	that	is	fond	of	certainty.	In	the	West,	our	prevailing	narrative
is	one	of	free	will	and	the	ability	to	make	what	we	want	of	our	lives.

But	what	happens	when	you	no	longer	know	what	you	want	your	life	to	look
like?	What	happens	when	your	career	no	longer	seems	to	mean	anything,	or	the
kids	have	flown	the	coop	and	left	a	black	hole	where	the	center	of	your	life	used
to	be?

As	Neptune	transits	your	tenth	house,	your	vision	of	the	future	grows
splotchy,	like	when	old	movie	film	breaks	and	leaves	melty	projections	on	the
screen.	It’s	as	though	you’ve	been	on	a	huge	ship,	happily	cruising	along	with	a
capable	crew	at	the	helm,	and	suddenly	ran	into	an	iceberg.	You’ve	leaped	into	a
lifeboat,	and	all	you	have	to	rely	on	are	the	other	passengers	for	company	and
the	stars	in	the	night	sky	for	navigation.	There	are	no	computers,	no	cell	phone
signals,	no	magazines,	no	paper	and	pen.	Your	job	is	to	drift	along	while	you
learn	to	let	your	heart	and	mind	be	fully	present	in	each	moment,	instead	of
racing	toward	the	future.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

Transiting	Pluto	moving	through	the	tenth	house	of	your	chart	tells	us	two
things:	The	profession	you	once	had	is	fundamentally	changing.	You	can’t	get	it
back,	because	it	is,	at	a	very	real	level,	gone.	That’s	not	to	say	you	won’t	be	able
to	support	yourself,	but	it	does	tell	us	that	even	if	you	got	your	old	job	back,	it
wouldn’t	be	the	same,	and	it	wouldn’t	offer	security.

The	other	thing	it	tells	us	is	that	you	no	longer	feel	happy	about	taking	orders
from	anybody	else.	You	must	feel	in	control	of	your	destiny,	and	of	your	career
path;	if	you	fail	to	take	control,	you	will	likely	find	yourself,	over	and	over,	in
workplace	situations	that	are	toxic.	Pluto	must	be	expressed—if	not	as
empowerment,	it	will	be	expressed	as	powerlessness.

Where	Pluto	transits,	there	is	no	room	for	dishonest	or	self-serving	behavior.
If	you	are	trying	to	keep	secrets	from	the	world,	Pluto	in	the	most	public	house
of	the	chart	will	usually	expose	them.



TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	TENTH	HOUSE

The	natal	position	of	the	Moon’s	North	Node	hints	at	the	sorts	of	dreams	that,	if
realized,	could	lead	you	to	great	happiness.	As	the	North	Node	transits	the	tenth
house	every	eighteen	years	or	so,	you	don’t	necessarily	achieve	these	dreams,
but	you	absolutely	find	the	determination	to	put	a	plan	into	action	to	help	you
achieve	them	down	the	road.	Often	this	means	a	change	in	career	or	your	living
situation,	which	is	likely	to	come	about	during	the	months	that	eclipses	fall	in
your	tenth	house.

As	the	North	Node	transits	your	tenth	house,	the	South	Node	is
simultaneously	transiting	your	fourth	house.	Since	the	South	Node	shows	where
old	patterns	and	habits	need	to	be	released,	this	is	a	transit	when	it’s	especially
important	to	become	aware	of	how	the	past	may	be	holding	you	back	from
success,	and	to	be	willing	to	make	the	changes	necessary	to	change	that	pattern.



chapter	14
HOUSES	5	AND	11:	CREATIONS	AND
LEGENDS

I don’t	have	children,	and	I	used	to	be	perplexed	by	those	minivans	with	abumper	sticker	that	reads	something	like,	“My	child	is	an	honor	student	at
XYZ	School.”	But	when	it	eventually	occurred	to	me	that	these	are	a	sort	of

appeal	to	the	gods	of	both	the	fifth	and	eleventh	houses,	they	suddenly	made	a
lot	more	sense.

Having	a	child	is	the	ultimate	act	of	creative	self-expression,	with	the	added
bonus	of	perpetuating	the	species.	Children	and	creativity	are	both	part	of	the
fifth	house	terrain,	and	having	a	child	is	as	pure	a	fifth	house	experience	as
you’ll	ever	have.	But	the	desire	to	have	your	child’s	achievements	acknowledged
by	fellow	motorists	takes	us	into	the	heart	of	eleventh	house	territory,	where	we
wish	for	our	creative	efforts	to	inspire	a	larger	audience	and	live	on	after	us	as	a
legacy.

Likewise,	writing	a	book	is	a	fifth	house	experience	for	me.	But	if	I	simply
printed	it	out,	wiped	my	computer	hard	drive	clean,	and	tossed	the	manuscript
into	the	fireplace,	it	would	remain	a	fifth	house	experience.	It’s	not	until	it’s
picked	up	and	read	by	others	(thank	you!)	that	my	eleventh	house	springs	to	life.

Without	an	audience,	the	circle	of	creative	self-expression	is	incomplete.	If
you	doubt	it,	ask	a	writer	if	she	gives	as	much	attention	to	her	personal	journal	as
she	does	to	a	piece	of	work	that	will	be	read	by	others.	I	give	approximately	a
thousand	times	more	attention	and	care	to	my	writing	when	I	know	someone	else
will	be	reading	it.	It’s	the	imagined	other,	the	critic	as	well	as	the	fan,	who	spurs
me	on.

The	eleventh	house	doesn’t	represent	only	audiences—it’s	also	your	creative
collaborators	who	reside	here.	You	don’t	have	to	be	close	friends	with	the	people
in	your	local	astrology	group	or	beer-brewing	club,	your	community	theater
troupe	or	your	weekend	softball	league.	It’s	enough	that	you	share	an	interest	in
creating	something	that	can	only	be	brought	to	life	by	a	team.	The	eleventh
house	is	known	as	the	House	of	Friendship,	but	these	are	less	friendships	of	the
heart	than	friendships	of	shared	interests.	This	is	where	you’ll	find	groups	and
organizations	to	which	you’re	yoked	by	the	communal	projects	and	creations
you	help	bring	to	life.



you	help	bring	to	life.

THE	FIFTH	HOUSE:	A	PIECE	OF	YOUR	HEART
Traditional	name:	House	of	Children	and	Creativity
Terrain:	children,	creative	self-expression,	hobbies,	recreation,	games,
entertainment,	fun,	love	affairs
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Leo;	the	Sun
Let’s	pretend	you’ve	run	away	from	home	and	gone	to	Europe	for	the	summer.
In	Paris,	you	meet	someone	whom	you	immediately	recognize	as	your	soul	mate.
No	one	has	ever	made	you	feel	so	special,	as	though	his	life	began	at	the
moment	he	set	eyes	on	you.	And	you	feel	exactly	the	same	way	in	return.	It’s
kismet!

Eventually	summer	ends	and	it’s	time	for	you	to	go	your	separate	ways.
There	are	tears,	promises	to	reunite	as	soon	as	you	can	disentangle	yourselves
from	your	regular	lives	and	commitments	to	all	those	people	who	don’t	really
understand	you.

Back	home,	in	familiar	surroundings,	time	passes.	Breathless	memories	of
Paris	begin	to	fade.	Skype	sessions	grow	further	apart.	You	get	busy	at	work.
You	can’t	think	how	to	break	things	off	with	the	person	you’ve	been	seeing	at
home.	And	eventually,	it	becomes	clear	that	while	this	brief	love	affair	was	one
of	the	most	heart-opening	experiences	of	your	life,	it	was	not	meant	to	last.

Heart-opening	experiences	are	the	purview	of	the	fifth	house.	A	brief	love
affair	in	a	foreign	city,	the	exhilaration	of	sharing	your	true	self	through	a
creative	project,	the	exquisite	delirium	of	welcoming	your	first	child	into	the
world—are	all	fifth	house	experiences.	Fifth	house	experiences	make	you
grateful	beyond	measure	that	you	are	you,	and	no	one	else.	Sometimes	they	turn
into	long-lasting	relationships,	careers,	or	interests.	But	often	they	exist	simply
for	a	brief	moment	in	time,	for	the	sole	purpose	of	introducing	you	to	your	own
heart.

The	real	world	happens	between	these	fireworks	displays.	When	we’re	not	in
love,	when	the	toddler	is	screaming,	when	the	painting	lies	unfinished	in	a
corner	of	the	living	room,	we	still	have	the	fifth	house	in	our	charts.	When	we
lack	time,	energy,	or	inspiration,	we	feed	ourselves	with	lesser	fifth	house	food
such	as	video	games,	television,	gambling,	and	spending	too	many	dollars	and
calories	on	eating	and	drinking.

To	keep	the	fifth	house	healthy	means	making	an	effort,	every	single	day,	to
contribute	some	vital	part	of	your	unique	self	to	the	world.	To	do	something	only



contribute	some	vital	part	of	your	unique	self	to	the	world.	To	do	something	only
you	can	do.	To	show	us	part	of	your	heart.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

In	the	film	State	and	Main,	a	big-city	writer	visiting	a	small	town	chats	with	a
local	woman	about	the	community	theater	group	and	its	upcoming	production.	“I
suppose	in	a	small	town,	you	have	to	make	your	own	fun,”	the	writer	observes.
“Everyone	makes	their	own	fun,”	replies	the	woman.	“If	you	don’t	make	it
yourself,	it	ain’t	fun—it’s	entertainment.”

In	the	horoscope,	the	fifth	house	is	where	you	make	your	own	fun.
Sometimes,	too,	it’s	where	you	entertain	others.	And	it’s	also	where	you	take
time	out	from	the	obligations	of	daily	life	to	indulge	in	play,	creativity,	and
leisure.

The	truth	is,	you	can’t	be	productive	or	creative	all	the	time.	That’s	what
recreation	is	for:	to	refill	the	well	that	you	draw	from.	Every	now	and	again,
even	a	workaholic	needs	to	take	an	afternoon	off.

In	the	two	or	three	months	before	the	Sun	enters	this	part	of	your	chart,	save
up	ideas	of	fun	things	to	do.	Perhaps	there’s	an	attraction	in	your	city	that	you’ve
never	explored,	a	few	books	you	want	to	read,	or	a	weekend	trip	with	your	best
friend	that	you’ve	been	putting	off.	Try	to	save	enough	of	them	to	do	a	couple
each	week	that	the	Sun	is	in	your	fifth	house.

The	Sun’s	transit	of	your	fifth	house	is	also	your	chance	to	be	an	inspiration
to	others.	Even	if	you	don’t	feel	as	though	you’re	leading	the	most	exciting	life,
I’m	willing	to	bet	there’s	at	least	one	person	who	looks	up	to	you.	This	month,
get	out	of	your	own	way—give	happiness	to	others	and	let	them	find	their
inspiration	in	you.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

This	is	one	of	the	most	creative	times	of	each	month,	a	rich	opportunity	to
transform	vulnerability	and	emotional	chaos	into	art.	If	you	have	the	luxury	of
taking	to	the	typewriter,	studio,	kitchen,	or	workshop	to	express	yourself	through
a	bit	of	wild	creativity,	this	transit	could	be	the	most	fun	you’ll	have	all	month
long.

Children	may	try	your	patience	a	bit	while	the	Moon	is	in	your	fifth	house.	If
you	have	kids,	schedule	playdates	and	other	activities	that	give	you	a	break	from
one	another.	Alternately,	toss	out	your	normal	routine	for	a	couple	of	days	and
try	to	enjoy	an	artistic	project	together.	The	key	is	to	find	a	way	to	appreciate
each	other,	sometimes	together,	sometimes	apart.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

In	the	fifth	house,	transiting	Mercury	looks	for	new	ideas,	skills,	or	strategies



In	the	fifth	house,	transiting	Mercury	looks	for	new	ideas,	skills,	or	strategies
related	to	having	a	good	time.	Mercury’s	innate	curiosity	and	love	of	variety	will
lead	you	to	find	ways	of	having	more	fun,	finding	love,	and	generally	enjoying
yourself	during	this	transit.	Make	it	a	priority	to	read	a	new	book,	visit	with
friends,	and	add	at	least	one	new	skill	or	piece	to	your	creative	repertoire.	You’ll
find	it	delightful	to	use	your	brain	during	this	transit—that’s	Mercury’s	idea	of	a
good	time.	And	if	you’ve	thought	about	joining	a	dating	website,	this	could	be	a
very	good	time	to	do	it—your	ability	to	sell	yourself	and	to	navigate	inscrutable
technology	is	better	than	usual	now!
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

The	world	does	not	always	look	upon	us	fondly	and	with	benign	indulgence
when	we	decide	to	strut	our	stuff.	That’s	the	tricky	part	of	fifth	house	transits,
which	can	be	so	much	fun	as	long	as	you	don’t	care	what	people	think	of	your
creations	or	your	idea	of	merriment	and	play.	This	is	a	fairly	quick	transit,	so	it
may	not	bring	the	love	of	your	life	to	you,	but	it	will	likely	provide	appreciation
for	your	fun-loving	side,	creative	efforts,	or	children.

You’ll	probably	receive	creative	support	and	favorable	reviews	when	Venus
transits	your	fifth	house,	but	hopefully	you’ll	be	too	preoccupied	with	having	fun
or	enjoying	an	influx	of	cash	to	care	what	others	think	about	what	you	wear,
what	you	do,	or	whom	you	love.	Money	might	emerge	as	a	motivation	for	a	new
creative	project	or	might	be	offered	for	something	you’ve	already	created.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

Play	hard	while	Mars	is	transiting	your	fifth	house.	Pursue	the	object	of	your
affection,	and	let	no	one	else	take	your	prize.	Creative	and	romantic	energy	and
drive	are	at	their	peak,	so	make	joy,	play,	romance,	and	creativity	a	top	priority.
Competition	comes	more	easily	to	Mars	than	collaboration,	so	if	you’re	working
with	others	on	a	creative	project,	expect	some	squabbles;	you’ll	want	to	do
everything	your	own	way,	so	it’s	best	to	focus	on	individual	projects	during	this
transit.

If	you	have	children,	they’ll	be	a	handful	during	this	transit.	Be	sure	to	guide
them	toward	high-energy	activities	to	burn	off	some	steam,	although	you	may
need	to	offer	some	lessons	about	patience	and	sportsmanship	along	the	way.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

Are	you	willing	to	take	the	risk	of	showing	the	world	who	you	really	are?	Many
of	us	say	we’d	like	to	have	more	love	and	creativity	in	our	lives,	and	Jupiter	in
the	fifth	house	evokes	visions	of	bodice-ripping	romance	and	many	happy	hours
spent	dabbling	with	finger	paints.



spent	dabbling	with	finger	paints.
But	there	is	a	risky	side	to	giving	your	heart	in	love	or	in	creativity:	the

chance	of	falling	short	of	your	own	expectations,	and	perhaps	most	of	all,	the
possibility	of	rejection.	Jupiter’s	transits	urge	you	to	take	that	risk.	Jupiter	in	the
house	of	creativity	will	settle	for	nothing	less	than	your	most	daring	and	heartfelt
effort.	Try	a	new	hobby,	take	a	new	approach	in	your	creative	work,	or	simply
share	yourself	in	a	way	that	is	scary	but	a	little	bit	thrilling.	Embrace	your	inner
adventurer.	Express	what	you	truly	believe,	and	do	it	with	style.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

Saturn	transiting	your	fifth	house	insists	that	you	create	something	that	will	last.
It	will	require	some	of	your	hardest	work;	at	times	you	will	despair	that	you	will
never	reach	your	goal.	This	is	a	transit	often	associated	with	literally	having	a
child,	and	no	creative	work	has	a	more	profound	effect	on	the	direction	of	your
life	or	demands	more	from	you.

Romantic	relationships	that	arise	during	this	transit	tend	to	have	a	quality	of
mentorship,	with	one	partner	older	and	more	experienced	than	the	other.	Some
sort	of	impediment,	such	as	geographical	distance	or	another	person	in	the
picture,	is	likely	in	the	relationship.

Where	Saturn	transits	he	also	brings	a	change	in	status,	which	in	the	fifth
house	could	range	from	becoming	a	parent	to	changing	careers.	This	change	in
status	won’t	necessarily	bring	immediate	and	unconditional	joy.	Even	a	happy
new	parent	becomes	intimately	familiar	with	the	exhaustion	and	self-sacrifice
that	comes	with	providing	a	strong	foundation	for	a	new	creation	to	prosper.	If
you	launch	a	creative	enterprise	or	commit	to	fulfilling	some	beloved	dream
during	this	transit,	expect	a	lot	of	initial	toil	and	disillusionment—but	don’t	let
that	discourage	you!	Saturn	will	not	prevent	you	from	having	what	you	really
want	and	are	willing	to	work	for,	but	he	often	presents	roadblocks	along	your
path	to	test	your	commitment.	Prove	that	you’re	ready	and	worthy.	Persevere.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

This	transit	begins	with	dissatisfaction.	Your	life	lacks	creative	opportunities	or
love;	your	heart	has	been	sleeping,	but	it	will	awaken	as	Uranus	inches	its	way
through	your	fifth	house.	Uranus’s	influence	is	not	subtle,	and	it	delights	in	the
element	of	surprise.	Love	affairs,	creative	opportunities,	sometimes	even
children	appear	and	shake	you	awake.	Occasionally,	their	impact	on	your	life
will	be	as	inconvenient	as	it	is	thrilling.

If	you	have	spent	years	toiling	in	a	creative	field,	this	could	be	the	transit	that
brings	an	important	breakthrough—but	at	first,	it	may	seem	more	like	a
breakdown!	If	your	imagination	and	passion	for	particular	activities	has	grown
stale,	bid	them	farewell.	You	can’t	move	ahead	to	the	activities	that	make	you



stale,	bid	them	farewell.	You	can’t	move	ahead	to	the	activities	that	make	you
feel	alive	until	you	are	freed	from	the	things	that	don’t.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

There’s	a	fine	line	between	faith	and	delusion,	and	transits	of	Neptune	are
always	devoted	to	exploring	that	line.	As	Neptune	transits	the	fifth	house,	that
line	runs	right	through	the	heart	of	your	creative	self.	Are	you	hanging	on	to	the
dream	of	writing	a	novel,	working	as	an	actor,	or	having	children,	holding	on
long	past	the	point	when	friends,	family,	society,	and	even	your	own	inner	voice
tell	you	it’s	hopeless?	Some	would	call	that	faith;	others	would	call	it	delusion.
You	probably	won’t	know	for	a	long	time	which	is	true.	But	if	it’s	time	to	let	go
of	the	dream,	Neptune	will	give	you	a	signal.	Once	the	dream	brings	more	pain
than	joy,	it’s	probably	a	clue	that	it	needs	to	leave	your	life.

Romantic	relationships	in	particular	can	be	alluringly	star-crossed	during	this
transit,	often	involving	attraction	from	across	race,	class,	or	cultural	lines.	Often
one	partner	is	expected	to	play	the	role	of	savior	for	the	other.	The	characters
portrayed	by	Leonardo	DiCaprio	and	Kate	Winslet	in	the	film	Titanic	are	a
perfect	example,	right	down	to	the	whole	relationship	taking	place	at	sea	(ruled
by	Neptune).	Rose	is	from	an	aristocratic	background,	and	Jack	is	poor	but	self-
reliant.	About	to	wed	a	cad	in	a	marriage	of	financial	convenience,	she	despairs,
to	the	point	of	attempted	suicide.	Luckily,	Jack	appears	at	the	right	moment	to
rescue	her.

It’s	a	lovely	and	romantic	story	despite	its	tragic	ending.	But	it’s	worth	noting
that	part	of	the	reason	the	love	story	works	is	that	this	unlikely	couple	never
faces	the	reality	of	living	together	in	the	world.	Relationships	between	people
from	different	worlds	can	absolutely	work,	but	in	reality	such	unions	require
more	than	just	romantic	attraction.	Relationships	that	begin	while	Neptune
transits	the	fifth	house	can	be	rapturous	but	may	not	survive	the	practical
realities	of	daily	life.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

It’s	sometimes	hard	to	say	exactly	how	Pluto	transits	will	play	out.	Will	Pluto
flay	you	and	leave	you	in	tatters?	Will	it	align	you	with	powerful	forces	that
catapult	you	to	wealth	and	celebrity?	I’ve	seen	both	happen.	Mostly,	as	Pluto
transits	the	house	of	creative	self-expression,	love	affairs,	and	children,	my
clients	report	difficulty	with	love	and	tremendous	struggles	with	creative
projects.	Hobbies	and	pastimes	meant	to	bring	enjoyment	and	recreation	become
fraught	with	power	struggles	and	betrayal.	Romantic	relationships	end	badly,
often	with	one	or	the	other	partner	holding	on	in	an	unhealthy	and	even
obsessive	way.



obsessive	way.
Pluto’s	transits	here	help	rid	you	of	false	expectations	about	relationships	and

help	you	align	yourself	with	creative	pursuits	better	suited	to	your	authentic	self.
If	you’re	a	parent,	it	can	be	a	trying	period	in	your	relationship	with	your
children.	You	may	experience	issues	of	control,	or	your	children	may	develop
characteristics	or	make	major	decisions	that	trouble	you.	One	of	a	parent’s	most
difficult	tasks	is	to	know	when	to	intercede	and	when	to	leave	a	child	alone,	and
that	is	the	nature	of	many	of	the	challenges	you’ll	face	during	this	transit.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	FIFTH	HOUSE

Whatever	the	dream	of	your	natal	North	Node,	the	transiting	North	Node	in	the
fifth	house	asks	you	to	examine	whether	you	are	pursuing	that	dream	with	your
whole,	true	heart.	Are	you	going	after	it	in	a	way	that	makes	you	completely
happy,	regardless	of	how	others	react?

As	the	North	Node	transits	the	fifth	house,	the	South	Node	will	be	in	the
eleventh	house.	The	urge	will	be	strong	to	fit	in,	be	part	of	a	group,	and	blend	in
rather	than	standing	apart.	This	is	the	comfortable	path,	but	not	the	one	that	will
lead	to	growth	and	happiness.	This	transit	will	bring	an	eclipse	or	two	to	the	fifth
house,	signaling	a	moment	of	truth:	Will	you	give	birth	to	a	dream	created	in
your	true	image	or	settle	for	giving	the	world	what	it	expects	from	you?

THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE:	LET’S	PUT	ON	A	SHOW	IN	THE	BARN!
Traditional	name:	House	of	Friendship
Terrain:	groups,	societies,	and	networks;	friends,	money	from	career,
investment,	broadcasting,	hopes	and	wishes,	helpful	people
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Aquarius;	the	planets	Saturn,	Uranus,
and	Jupiter	(traditional	astrologers	place	Jupiter	in	its	“joy”	in	the	eleventh
house)
I’ve	never	been	much	of	a	group	person.	They	require	so	much	democracy,	so
much	equality.	Born	a	Leo,	I’m	astrologically	incapable	of	blending	in	with	a
crowd.

But	even	the	most	determinedly	individualistic	and	creative	person	eventually
comes	up	with	some	scheme	that	can	only	be	pulled	off	by	group	effort.	Some
enterprising	kid	writes	a	play,	and	the	next	thing	you	know	he’s	rallying	his	pals,
Mickey	Rooney–style,	with	the	cry,	“Hey	kids,	let’s	put	on	a	show	in	the	barn!”

Movie	directors	are	known	as	tyrants	and,	occasionally,	megalomaniacs.	But
even	they	need	a	huge	crew	of	people	to	help	them	realize	their	vision.	Someone
has	to	write	the	story,	come	up	with	the	money,	manage	the	lights	and	cameras



has	to	write	the	story,	come	up	with	the	money,	manage	the	lights	and	cameras
and	other	technical	details,	act,	stock	the	food	services	table,	and	make	sure
people	look	fabulous	on	camera.

This	is	eleventh	house	creativity	at	work.	A	group	of	people	who	share	an
interest	pool	their	individual	creative	talents	to	make	something	that	is	beyond	a
single	person’s	ability.	This	is	the	house	of	clubs,	societies,	fraternities	and
sororities,	and	politics.	And	it’s	the	house	where	creative	ideas	are,	hopefully,
conveyed	into	the	future,	where	they	can	become	the	stuff	of	legends.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

When	the	Sun	moves	into	the	eleventh	house,	embrace	your	friendships.	Be
generous	with	your	praise,	your	possessions,	and	your	time—this	is	the	mortar
that	holds	social	contracts	together.	Remember	that	a	friendship	is	life’s	only
completely	optional	relationship:	You	are	together	only	because	you	like	and
care	about	each	other!

So	show	up.	Be	there	when	your	friend	is	singing	at	a	café,	acting	in	a
community	theater	production,	or	having	a	party.	Show	up	when	it’s	your
friend’s	birthday,	even	if	it’s	just	a	phone	call	to	let	them	know	you’re	thinking
of	them.

Cultivate	new	friendships,	too.	Maybe	there’s	someone	hanging	around	on
the	periphery	of	your	life	who	you	think	you’d	enjoy	befriending.	Stop	putting	it
off;	begin	cultivating	the	friendship.	Commit	to	one	coffee	date.	Or	when	you
accept	that	next	Facebook	friend	invitation,	write	a	quick	note	to	say	hi.	Treat
yourself	to	the	completely	optional	happiness	of	friendship.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

The	Moon	is	a	sensitive,	intuitive	influence,	and	in	the	eleventh	house	you	are
more	in	tune	than	usual	with	friends	and	associates.	Take	this	into	account	when
planning	social	engagements	that	tend	to	trigger	strong	emotions	in	you;	you	will
be	vulnerable	to	your	friends’	words,	tone	of	voice,	and	body	language	and	may
be	apt	to	take	offense	where	none	was	intended.

Take	note	of	the	month	each	year	when	the	New	Moon	falls	in	the	eleventh
house	of	your	chart.	This	is	a	powerful	time	for	setting	intentions	related	to	your
friendships,	receiving	rewards	from	your	career,	and	finding	helpful	associates
who	can	aid	you	in	your	goals.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

The	house	position	of	transiting	Mercury	tells	you,	above	all,	what’s	on	your
mind.	For	the	several	weeks	Mercury	is	transiting	your	eleventh	house,	your
friendships	and	your	future	occupy	your	thoughts.	Formulate	a	long-range	plan



friendships	and	your	future	occupy	your	thoughts.	Formulate	a	long-range	plan
for	your	life	and	your	legacy.	Get	in	touch	with	friends	whom	you	haven’t
spoken	with	in	a	while	(if	Mercury	will	be	retrograde	while	in	your	eleventh
house,	these	might	be	friends	you	haven’t	spoken	with	in	a	very	long	time).

The	eleventh	house	has	some	association	with	technology.	Mercury’s	transit
here	is	usually	a	good	one	for	acquiring	skills,	contacts,	equipment,	and
implementing	systems	to	improve	your	relationship	with	the	gadgets	in	your	life.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

Your	idea	of	happiness	this	month	will	probably	involve	spending	more	time
than	usual	with	friends.	Social	gatherings	of	all	kinds	tend	to	be	more	rewarding
during	this	transit,	and	overtures	of	friendship	are	also	well	received.	It’s	the
right	moment	to	cultivate	social	media	relationships	or	purchase	new	gizmos	(as
long	as	Venus	is	not	retrograde).

The	eleventh	house	represents	rewards	from	your	profession,	so	you	can
reasonably	expect	additional	money,	praise,	or	opportunities	to	come	your	way
through	your	career	or	related	to	involvement	in	social	organizations.	It’s
generally	an	excellent	transit	for	socializing,	including	professional	conferences
and	networking	functions.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

Transiting	Mars	is	devoted	to	making	you	fight	for	what	is	yours,	and	this	can	be
an	awkward	element	to	introduce	into	your	eleventh	house	relationships.	Ideally,
groups	cooperate	to	achieve	shared	goals.	In	a	perfect	world,	friends	are	always
mutually	supportive.	But	of	course,	we	don’t	live	in	a	perfect,	ideal	world,	and
sometimes	these	relationships	grow	stale	or	are	proven	false.	Mars	transiting	the
eleventh	house	can	bring	conflict	with	friends	and	associates,	but	it	also	clears
the	air	and	lets	everyone	know	where	they	stand.

Mars	can	indicate	leadership	opportunities,	so	you	may	find	yourself	involved
in	group	activities	or	serving	on	a	committee—even	if	that’s	not	normally	your
style.	The	eleventh	house	is	also	associated	with	the	future,	so	this	can	be	an
excellent	transit	for	initiating	a	long-term	project	that	requires	courage	and
motivation.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

If	you’ve	ever	hoped	that	a	friendship	would	become	“something	more,”	this
could	be	the	transit	you’ve	been	waiting	for:	I	fell	in	love	with	and	married	my
best	friend	while	Jupiter	was	transiting	my	eleventh	house!	I	won’t	say	that’s	a
common	occurrence,	but	it’s	a	good	metaphor	for	the	essential	meaning	of	the
transit.	Jupiter	transiting	the	eleventh	house	invites	you	to	broaden	the	scope	of
your	friendships	and	other	associations.	It	may	be	time	to	befriend	people	from	a



your	friendships	and	other	associations.	It	may	be	time	to	befriend	people	from	a
different	country	or	background;	you	might	find	lifelong	bonds	in	college,	while
traveling,	or	through	your	church.	Jupiter	is	considered	the	most	fortunate	of
planets,	and	this	can	be	a	wonderful	transit	if	you’re	willing	to	open	your	mind
and	look	for	friendship	in	new	places—or,	perhaps,	to	find	something	new	in	an
existing	friendship.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

Saturn	is	often	said	to	be	associated	with	the	notion	of	karma,	which	asserts	that
what	you	have	put	out	into	the	world	returns	to	you	in	kind.	It	does	seem	true
that	when	you	have	worked	hard	and	earnestly,	making	sacrifices	for	many
years,	Saturn’s	transits	will	often	bring	your	reward.	You’ll	find	that	you’ve
earned	a	certain	status	and	respect	as	an	authority	in	your	profession	or	among
your	friends;	you	have	arrived,	professionally	speaking.	If	you’re	very	young	or
new	to	your	profession,	the	rewards	may	not	be	as	great—you’ve	still	got	dues
to	pay—but	there	should	still	be	an	improvement	in	your	professional	prospects.

Professional	networks	and	the	sorts	of	friendships	that	take	place	mostly	in
groups	will	present	challenges	during	this	transit.	Part	of	reaching	a	higher	level
in	your	profession	is	that	you’re	expected	to	give	more	back	to	your	community.
Participation	on	boards	of	directors	or	other	leadership	roles	are	likely	during
this	transit	and	are	usually	fraught	with	struggle.	But	remember	that	all	the
activities	that	have	brought	you	to	this	point	had	their	difficult	and	thankless
sides,	as	well.	Saturn	is	keeping	track	and	will	reward	you	in	the	future	for	doing
your	best	now.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

I’m	a	sucker	for	a	fish-out-of-water	story.	Television	shows	such	as	Northern
Exposure	or	Doc	Martin,	which	feature	big-city	protagonists	dealing	with	the
vagaries	of	rural	life,	are	among	my	favorites.	It’s	fun	to	watch	someone	come
into	a	completely	unfamiliar	situation,	where	everyone	else	has	already	formed
community	bonds,	and	watch	them	interact	with	one	another.

The	situation	can	be	somewhat	less	entertaining	in	real	life,	however.	This
transit	might	find	you	a	bit	out	of	water	yourself.	Perhaps	after	many	years	in	the
same	place,	you	move	to	a	new	city	or	job	and	have	to	start	all	over	finding	new
friends.	To	a	great	extent,	we’re	defined	by	the	people	with	whom	we	keep
company.	While	any	major	move	is	difficult,	especially	at	the	beginning,	it	can
also	be	an	incomparable	opportunity	to	redefine	yourself.	In	a	new	place,	you
can	be	anyone	you	want	to	be.	That	freedom	is	a	bit	disorienting	at	first,	but	it
can	be	very	exciting	and	liberating	as	well.



TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

Do	you	know	who	your	friends	are?	You	will	by	the	time	Neptune	is	finished
transiting	your	eleventh	house.	Sometimes	friends	are	revealed	to	be	something
quite	different	than	you	had	imagined	them	to	be.	More	often,	though,	we	grow
apart	from	friends	without	realizing	it.	Increasingly,	you’re	drawn	to	friends	and
networks	who	share	your	ideals	or	spiritual	concerns.	Those	who	don’t	will	be
washed	away	by	Neptune’s	tide.

A	certain	sadness	and	yearning	for	the	sense	of	belonging	you	used	to	feel
with	friends	is	common	during	this	transit.	You	may	also	have	to	come	to	terms
with	the	reality	that	your	future	is	not	going	to	look	exactly	as	you	thought	it
would.	This	can	be	a	very	long	transit,	so	you	will	have	plenty	of	time	to	get
used	to	the	idea	and	to	envision	a	new	future	for	yourself.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

It’s	safe	to	say	that	you	can	never	find	true	friends	until	you	are	able	to	accept
yourself	as	you	really	are	and	recognize	when	others	are	being	false.	This	is	the
implication	of	Pluto’s	transit	through	the	eleventh	house.	It’s	no	longer	enough
to	have	a	pack	of	people	to	run	around	with	so	that	you	don’t	feel	alone.	You
want	real	friends,	the	kind	with	whom	you	can	share	your	less-than-admirable
qualities.

If	you	have	a	habit	of	showing	people	just	what	they	want	to	see	instead	of
what	you	really	are,	this	transit	will	cure	you	of	that.	If	the	habit	is	deeply
ingrained,	you	may	unconsciously	enlist	polarizing	comrades	such	as	an
obnoxious	friend	or	a	really	objectionable	boyfriend	or	girlfriend	to	act	as
standins	for	your	own	dark	side.	“Love	me,	love	my	Obnoxious	Other!”	you
declare	to	the	world,	and	when	some	decide	they	can	do	without	you	both,	you
get	to	develop	the	strength	that	comes	from	standing	apart	from	the	pack.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	ELEVENTH	HOUSE

Even	if	you	are	a	lone	wolf	by	nature,	there	is	some	truth	to	the	adage	that	“it
takes	a	village	to	raise	a	child.”	Children,	or	creative	projects	that	are	like	our
children,	are	found	in	the	fifth	house,	but	the	eleventh	house	is	where	we	all
raise	the	children	or	collaborate	on	artistic	visions	together.	During	this	transit	of
the	North	Node,	reach	out,	however	tentatively,	to	groups	of	people	who	share
your	creative	passions.

As	the	North	Node	transits	the	eleventh	house,	the	South	Node,	representing
the	easy	path,	is	in	the	fifth	house	of	individual	self-expression.	If	you	prefer
doing	things	on	your	own,	that’s	okay;	you	don’t	have	to	change	who	you	are,
and	you	don’t	have	to	work	with	groups	the	rest	of	your	life.	But	explore	them	as
a	possibility	now,	instead	of	retreating	into	your	solitary,	creative	cave.	This



a	possibility	now,	instead	of	retreating	into	your	solitary,	creative	cave.	This
transit	will	bring	an	eclipse	or	two	to	your	eleventh	house,	and	you	might	find
you’ve	reached	a	turning	point	in	the	hunt	for	a	group	of	compatriots	you	can
call	your	own.	Sometimes	this	means	letting	go	of	associations	that	no	longer
enrich	your	life.



chapter	15
HOUSES	6	AND	12:	THIS	WORLD	AND	THE
NEXT

I t’s	easy	to	see	how	the	idea	of	heaven	came	about.	Living	as	a	human,	trappedin	an	inconvenient,	demanding	body	in	an	imperfect	world,	often	feels	like
Purgatory.	How	could	God	reside	in	a	house	with	unmade	beds,	overflowing

laundry,	and	people	hollering	at	each	other	about	which	bills	haven’t	been	paid?
Or	in	a	cubicle,	performing	rote,	soul-sucking	duties	for	forty	hours	each	week—
let	alone	in	a	prison,	or	a	hospital?

We	don’t	all	have	chaotic,	miserable	lives,	at	least	not	all	the	time.	And
mostly,	we	bear	our	duties	and	limitations	cheerfully.	But	to	bring	an	uplifting
sense	of	meaning	and	order	to	our	days,	we	often	feel	we	have	to	reach	toward	a
heaven	that	is	remote,	unknowable,	and	utterly	separate	from	our	earthly	messes.

In	the	horoscope,	the	search	for	transcendence	of	our	earthly	drudgery	is
symbolized	by	the	axis	of	the	sixth	and	twelfth	houses.	Connected	at	opposite
ends	of	an	invisible	pole,	these	two	houses	suggest	that	earth	and	not-earth	are
connected,	and	that	we	can	only	know	one	by	also	knowing	the	other.	In	the
sixth	house,	we	attend	to	earthly	affairs.	We	work,	clean,	and	brush	our	teeth.	In
the	twelfth	house,	our	minds	cast	us	as	a	solitary	monk,	poring	over	sacred	texts,
and	in	the	sixth	house	we	are	the	servant	who	brings	the	monk	his	tea.

I’ve	never	cared	for	this	way	of	viewing	these	houses.	It	seems	to	exalt	the
twelfth	house	while	denigrating	the	sixth.	Rather,	I	see	the	matters	related	to	the
sixth	house	as	the	surest	way	to	access	the	spiritual	transcendence	of	the	twelfth
house.	Through	our	sixth	house	rituals	of	purification,	reverence,	and	humility,
we	transform	drudgery	into	divinity.	Far	from	being	the	unloved	stepchild	of	the
twelfth	house,	the	sixth	is	actually	its	threshold.

When	transiting	planets	awaken	this	axis	of	your	chart,	your	habits	and
rituals,	your	sense	of	life’s	meaning	and	purpose,	are	challenged,	enlarged,	and
illuminated.	If	you	were	born	with	planets	in	these	two	houses,	transits	here	have
a	special	significance	and	resonance.	If	not,	these	transits	give	you	a	special
opportunity	to	explore	this	rich	territory	of	your	chart.

THE	SIXTH	HOUSE:	PUTTING	YOUR	HOUSE	IN	ORDER



Traditional	name:	House	of	Health
Terrain:	health,	work,	service,	servants,	coworkers,	duties,	habits,	routines,
chores,	caretaking,	pets	and	small	animals,	skills
Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Virgo;	the	planets	Mercury,	Mars
(traditional	astrologers	place	Mars	in	its	“joy”	in	the	sixth	house)
Each	evening	after	dinner,	I	launch	into	a	flurry	of	practical	activities.	I	put	away
leftovers	and	wash	dishes,	sweep	the	kitchen	floor,	transfer	laundry	from	the
washer	to	the	dryer,	clean	the	cats’	litter	box,	and	give	our	little	feline	diabetic
her	shot	of	insulin.	In	your	household,	I	imagine	it’s	much	the	same,	with	some
variations.

Most	of	us	wouldn’t	say	we	necessarily	enjoy	these	chores.	We	probably
listen	to	the	radio	or	television	to	ignore	the	fact	that	we’re	even	doing	them.	But
if	they	don’t	get	done,	these	dozens	of	small	tasks,	life	begins	to	falter,	grinding
to	a	halt	like	an	engine	without	oil.	Neglect	the	minutiae	of	daily	life	and	you’ll
soon	find	that	you’re	running	on	empty.

While	planets	transit	your	sixth	house,	they	awaken	your	craving	for	order.
Your	life	has,	to	some	extent,	become	a	mess;	it’s	time	to	clean	it	up	and	sort	it
out.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

The	chores	of	daily	life	can	be	drudgery	or	ritual—the	difference	is	one	of
attitude.	The	sixth	house	is	our	most	accessible	path	to	enlightenment,	because
its	matters	are	the	ones	that	occupy	most	of	our	daily	hours.	So	the	path	to
happiness	during	this	transit	is	not	just	to	wash	the	dishes,	but	to	make
dishwashing	into	a	prayer	for	order,	dignity,	and	sanity.

Be	helpful	while	the	Sun	is	in	the	sixth	house.	Sometimes	you’ll	find	yourself
waiting	on	others	hand	and	foot.	But	serving	others	is	an	important	component
of	spiritual	teaching.	Through	service,	we	have	the	opportunity	to	experience
humility.

Finally,	when	the	Sun	is	moving	through	the	sixth	house,	it’s	important	to
give	others	their	due.	In	this	day	and	age,	we’re	quick	to	criticize.	Are	we	as
quick	to	tell	others,	in	great	detail,	just	how	much	they’re	appreciated?	Virgo	is
the	sign	associated	with	the	sixth	house,	and	one	Virgo	lady	I	know	once	said
that	she	believes	in	being	completely	honest,	but	to	her	that	means	being	very
complimentary	when	she	appreciates	something	about	a	person.	Appreciation	is
key	to	happiness—both	receiving	it	and	giving	it.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE



This	is	a	fleeting	and	minor	transit,	with	the	Moon	moving	through	a	house	of
your	chart	roughly	two	and	a	half	days	of	every	month.	The	Moon	is	a
changeable	influence,	so	this	is	one	of	the	best	times	of	the	month	to	change
habits	and	routines	related	to	your	health,	work,	and	service.

During	this	transit,	you	may	be	a	little	irritable	and	easily	overwhelmed	by
ordinary	responsibilities	such	as	housework.	The	day-to-day	world	can	suddenly
seem	utterly	unmanageable.	Hang	in	there—this	is	a	quick	transit!

Each	year,	the	New	Moon	in	your	sixth	house	is	a	powerful	time	to	set
intentions	related	to	your	health	and	work	and	to	find	reliable	helpers	in	your
life.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

Transiting	Mercury	brings	with	him	the	gift	of	curiosity.	When	your	mind	is
intrigued	by	a	problem,	it	will	usually	get	solved.	When	your	curiosity	is	aroused
by	creating	more	efficient	ways	to	use	your	resources,	schedules,	systems,	and
timetables	get	put	in	place.

For	a	few	weeks,	while	Mercury	transits	your	sixth	house,	you’re	finally
interested	in	sorting	out	the	messes	in	your	life.	Hand	it	all	over	to	Mercury	as
you	would	give	a	restless	child	a	toy	to	keep	him	occupied.	Make	a	full	audit	of
your	household,	habits,	and	life	goals;	how	might	you	streamline	your	routines
and	refine	your	objectives?	What	could	you	be	doing,	or	doing	better,	to	improve
your	health?
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

How	can	you	make	your	daily	life	more	pleasurable,	more	harmonious	and
balanced?	While	Venus	transits	your	sixth	house,	no	one	has	to	tell	you	to	eat	a
more	balanced	diet,	bring	home	a	bouquet	of	flowers,	or	buy	beautiful	file
folders	and	binders	for	your	office.	Venus’s	sixth	house	grace	is	the
understanding	that	practicality	doesn’t	have	to	be	ugly	and	joyless.	There’s	no
reason	you	can’t	celebrate	both	form	and	function.	Making	each	moment,	place,
and	routine	a	little	more	lovely	than	it	has	to	be	is	the	assignment	and	the	gift	of
this	transit.

Venus	is	the	relationship	planet,	so	this	transit	may	bring	agreeable	new
people	into	your	everyday	life.	A	gracious	new	coworker,	a	happier	coffee
barista,	or	a	smiling	new	hairstylist	can	go	far	to	alleviate	the	tedium	of	familiar
routines.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

Fire	can	be	dangerous—but	in	nature	it	also	purifies,	removing	deadwood	and
enriching	soil	for	new	growth.	The	same	is	true	when	transiting	Mars	moves



enriching	soil	for	new	growth.	The	same	is	true	when	transiting	Mars	moves
through	your	sixth	house.	Your	home,	work,	and	habits	need	to	be	cleaned	out
and	reorganized	periodically	to	make	room	for	the	things	that	are	useful	or	bring
you	joy.	Your	closets	and	pantry	need	to	be	purged.	It’s	time	to	finally	shred	and
file	that	stubborn	stack	of	papers	in	your	office.	It’s	easy	to	let	things	pile	up	and
to	fall	into	unproductive	habits,	and	Mars’s	transit	of	the	sixth	house	every	two
and	a	half	years	will	motivate	you	to	clear	the	decks	to	allow	for	new	growth.

The	sixth	house	is	connected	to	the	routines	and	habits	that	contribute	to	good
health.	If	you’ve	had	a	hard	time	getting	motivated	in	this	area,	Mars	in	the	sixth
house	is	a	good	transit	to	overcome	your	inertia	and	form	better,	more	healthful
habits.	Exercise,	in	particular,	is	Mars’s	bailiwick,	so	let	this	transit	act	as	a	no-
nonsense	coach	and	get	yourself	moving!
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

When	Jupiter	visits	the	house	of	work,	health,	and	habit,	the	transit	often	begins
with	the	uncomfortable	feeling	that	your	life	is	too	small.	Your	job	doesn’t
challenge	you	or	pay	well	enough.	Your	house	is	a	mess.	You	don’t	get	to	travel
as	much	as	you’d	like.	Jupiter	brings	the	gift	of	dissatisfaction	and,	ultimately,
the	impetus	to	break	out	of	your	rut.

Jupiter	transiting	your	sixth	house	opens	up	your	small	world	to	bigger
opportunities	than	you	had	ever	dreamed	possible.	That’s	a	little	overwhelming,
but	undeniably	exciting!	If	you	work	for	yourself,	Jupiter	will	push	you	to	try
new	methods,	launch	new	products	or	services,	or	expand	your	business.	You’ll
really	enjoy	your	work	this	year—and	if	you	don’t,	you’ll	almost	certainly	take
steps	to	liberate	yourself	and	move	on	to	a	more	satisfying	situation.

Jupiter	generally	ensures	good	health	in	the	sixth	house,	probably	because
you	have	a	good	attitude.	Overindulgence	of	all	kinds	will	need	to	be	kept	in
check,	though.	Overeating	or	drinking	too	much	are	obviously	problematic,	but
indulging	in	extreme	fad	diets	and	pushing	your	body	too	far,	too	fast	with
exercise	can	be	just	as	damaging	in	the	long	run.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

Anything	worthwhile	takes	effort,	patience,	and	perseverance.	As	Saturn	transits
your	sixth	house,	these	tools	are	available	to	you.	What	is	the	thing	you	have
wanted	to	achieve	your	entire	life,	and	what	practical	considerations	are	holding
you	back?	Saturn	in	the	sixth	house	will	force	you	to	buckle	down	and	work
your	hardest	to	eliminate	those	barriers.	The	work	you	do	now,	the	habits	you
form,	and	the	grit	that	you	demonstrate	will	directly	influence	your	future
success.

This	is	not	necessarily	an	easy	transit.	You	may	struggle	with	health	issues,



This	is	not	necessarily	an	easy	transit.	You	may	struggle	with	health	issues,
feel	underemployed,	or	suffer	from	low	self-esteem	about	your	current	status
relative	to	where	you	had	hoped	to	be	in	your	life.	Saturn	rewards	sacrifice,	hard
work,	and	commitment,	however,	so	just	keep	your	eye	on	your	long-term	goal
and	refuse	to	be	discouraged	from	working	toward	it.	Show	up,	put	yourself	in
the	situations	that	you	know	could	lead	to	success,	and	commit	to	the	hard	work
necessary	to	make	that	happen.	In	time,	you’ll	look	at	this	as	the	period	in	your
life	when	you	planted	the	seeds	of	your	most	satisfying	achievements.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

Has	your	life	been	getting	a	bit	stale?	Working	at	the	same	place	year	after	year,
living	in	the	same	house,	socializing	with	the	same	friends,	having	the	same
arguments	with	your	partner?

Once	transiting	Uranus	enters	your	sixth	house,	that’s	all	over.	You’ll	find
yourself	doing	things	you	never	dreamed	you’d	do.	Maybe	your	health	routine
needs	shaking	up;	Uranus	can	do	that.	Your	work	might	be	boring	you;	Uranus
flat-out	refuses	to	be	bored,	so	he’ll	see	to	it	that	you’re	not.

When	Uranus	makes	his	long	transit	of	your	sixth	house,	your	daily	life	as
you	know	it	needs	to	change.	And	if	you	won’t	do	it	yourself,	Uranus	will	be
more	than	willing	to	do	it	himself.	But	you	might	not	like	his	methods.	He	acts
suddenly,	unpredictably.	You	never	know	what’s	coming	next.	Sometimes	you’ll
wonder	whether	anything	will	be	left	after	you	break	it	all	down.	It’s	like	that
moment	when	you’ve	taken	everything	out	of	your	closet	to	clean	it	and	now
wonder	whether	you’ve	got	the	energy	to	put	it	back.	Maybe	you	don’t—but	it
doesn’t	matter,	because	Uranus	does.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

It	used	to	be	that	making	a	long	journey	meant	getting	on	a	ship	and	traveling	for
months	at	a	time.	It	must	have	been	so	peaceful,	out	in	the	middle	of	the	ocean,
cut	off	from	the	rest	of	the	world.	Rocking	back	and	forth,	reading,	fishing,
writing,	contemplating;	watching	the	sun	rise	and	set;	living	in	each	moment,
with	no	distractions	to	pull	you	into	the	past	or	the	future.

As	Neptune	transits	your	sixth	house,	it’s	as	though	you	are	climbing	onto	a
big	ship	and	embarking	on	a	long	journey,	a	hiatus	from	the	daily	life	you’ve
known	for	so	long.	If	your	age	is	right,	you	might	retire	from	professional	life;	if
you’re	too	young	for	that,	your	work	must	now	conform	to	your	sense	of
spiritual	purpose.	Everything	that	happens	to	you	during	this	transit	has	meaning
and	is	designed	to	move	you	a	bit	farther	along	your	spiritual	path.	All	that	is
required	of	you	is	to	board	the	ship	and	surrender	to	the	journey.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE



TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

Where	Pluto	transits,	we	become	aware	of	our	individual	insignificance	and	are
called	to	align	ourselves	with	something	larger.	Pluto	transiting	the	sixth	house
brings	you	face	to	face	with	life-or-death	circumstances	that	consume	your
attention	and	daily	routine.	Perhaps	you	take	a	job	that	requires	you	to	respond
to	urgent	and	dramatic	situations.	It	could	be	that	someone	very	close	to	you
struggles	with	a	serious	problem	that	requires	your	constant	help	and	support.
You	might	simply	move	to	a	place	where,	every	day,	you	are	reminded	of	the
fragility	of	life	and	the	challenge	of	surviving	in	extreme	environments.

Pluto’s	transits	are	the	longest,	and	the	changes	they	describe	are	the	sort	of
major	transformations	that	take	many	years	to	complete.	By	the	time	Pluto
moves	out	of	your	sixth	house,	your	daily	life	will	look	absolutely	different	than
it	did	at	the	beginning	of	this	transit.	To	make	sure	you	will	like	the	finished
product,	do	your	best	to	be	of	optimal	service	to	those	around	you	and	to	the
causes	that	mean	the	most	to	you.	Perform	good	works	without	any	expectation
of	reward.	Be	humble.	Be	honest.	Be	kind	to	others.	Live	a	life	that	makes	you
proud.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	SIXTH	HOUSE

Your	greatest	spiritual	growth	during	this	transit	will	come	from	offering	support
and	service	to	others	through	your	work,	sacrifice,	and	acts	of	compassion.	It’s
often	a	transit	that	brings	a	change	in	the	workplace,	or	perhaps	even	a	new
career.	You	may	also	find	yourself	in	a	position	of	needing	to	support	a	partner
or	some	other	important	person	in	your	life.	This	can	require	great	compassion,
both	for	the	person	you’re	supporting	and	for	yourself,	should	feelings	of
resentment	arise.	It	can	be	a	very	challenging	transit,	especially	during	the
months	when	eclipses	fall	in	the	sixth	house,	because	it	is	not	particularly
fashionable	in	this	day	and	age	to	put	others’	needs	and	desires	above	our	own.

While	the	North	Node	transits	the	sixth	house,	the	South	Node	is	in	the
twelfth	house.	It	would	be	the	easiest	thing	in	the	world	for	you	to	retreat	into
self-pity	and	self-destructive	behavior	now,	or	to	give	in	to	the	feeling	of	being
overwhelmed	by	your	responsibilities.	But	this	is	the	time	to	acknowledge	things
for	what	they	are	and	to	take	practical	steps	to	improve	them.

THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE:	SANCTUARY
Traditional	name:	House	of	Self-Undoing
Terrain:	hidden	enemies,	self-defeating	behavior	or	attitudes,	hospitals,	prisons,
willing	retreat,	secret	matters,	privacy,	the	unconscious,	dreams,	faith



Shares	common	ground	with:	the	sign	of	Pisces;	the	planets	Jupiter,	Neptune,
Saturn	(traditional	astrologers	place	Saturn	in	its	“joy”	in	the	sixth	house)
In	the	summers,	my	family	would	often	take	long	drives	across	the	country,	to
visit	relatives	in	California.	The	very	best	time	of	the	day	was	sunrise.	We’d
wake	up	in	some	town	such	as	Gallup,	New	Mexico,	bundle	ourselves	into	the
station	wagon,	and	take	off	across	Interstate	40,	watching	the	sky	turn	from	inky
black	to	soft	blue,	pink,	and	purple,	until	the	sun	was	up	and	we’d	stop	for
pancakes	at	a	roadside	diner.	Everyone	sat	quietly	at	the	booth,	sleepy-headed
and	soft,	without	our	daytime	armor,	eating	our	breakfast	and	gazing	out	at	the
morning.	No	one	had	to	speak.

The	two	hours	just	after	sunup	are	the	twelfth	house	time	of	day,	the	moments
when	the	Sun	is	transiting	this	part	of	the	sky,	low	above	the	eastern	horizon.	It’s
a	soft	and	hazy	time	for	many	of	us,	but	by	definition,	it	is	not	the	dark,
impenetrable,	and	fearful	stuff	of	astrological	legend,	either.	We	hear	it
described	as	a	penitentiary,	a	dungeon,	a	sanitarium,	a	hospital,	a	convent—and
yes,	I	suppose	those	relate	the	nature	of	the	twelfth	house,	these	places	where	we
are	left	alone	with	our	thoughts,	to	do	penance,	to	heal,	to	pray.

But	I	like	to	think	these	places	represent	a	process	of	experience,	not	the
totality	of	it.	In	the	twelfth	house,	we	seek	healing.	We	seek	benediction.	We
seek	inspiration.	If	we	think	of	the	traditional	twelfth	house	places	as	areas	of
intention	rather	than	imprisonment,	they	take	on	quite	a	different	dimension.

The	twelfth	house	is,	like	the	first	hours	of	the	day,	the	part	of	life	where	we
are	softest,	most	fluid,	still	attached	a	bit	to	the	dream	state.	And	because	we
aren’t	set	in	stone,	it’s	a	place	of	imagination—of	what	we	can	be,	instead	of
merely	what	we	are.	It’s	the	house	where	you	get	to	imagine	your	life,	to	be	in
the	world	but	at	the	same	time	to	have	at	least	one	foot	in	another.	It	is	a	softly	lit
house	of	intuition	and	of	the	muse.	At	your	best	moments	in	meditation	or
prayer,	you	are	in	the	twelfth	house.	When	you’re	reading	a	novel	and	lost	in	the
world	of	the	imagination,	you	are	in	the	twelfth	house.	When	you	stop	to	behold
your	newly	organized	desk,	you	are	in	the	twelfth	house.	Anyplace	where	your
mind	and	spirit	are	united	in	stillness	becomes	a	twelfth	house	temple.
TRANSITING	SUN	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

There	are	two	months	out	of	each	year	when	you	need	to	schedule	a	personal
retreat.	One	is	the	month	before	your	birthday.	This	is	the	other	one.

The	month	that	the	transiting	Sun	is	in	your	twelfth	house	is	like	the	dark
phase	of	the	Moon.	There	is	little	light	shining	inside	you.	You’re	tired	or
uninspired,	give	up	easily,	and	may	feel	a	little	grumpy.



So	if	you	can,	take	some	time	off	this	month.	At	the	very	least,	minimize	your
social	commitments.	Spend	time	alone	daydreaming,	reading	a	book,	listening	to
music.	Walk	on	the	beach,	in	the	woods,	on	a	mountain.	Commune	with	nature.
Commune	with	yourself.	This	is	meditation	time,	so	don’t	overthink	it.	Just
leave	some	empty	space	in	your	life	this	month	to	recharge	your	batteries.
TRANSITING	MOON	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

Each	month,	take	this	opportunity	to	practice	self-care.	The	skills	you	develop—
not	overscheduling	yourself,	learning	to	say	no,	carving	out	time	for	yourself,
getting	enough	rest—will	be	absolutely	invaluable	when	you	are	faced	with
much	longer	twelfth	house	transits	by	slower-moving	planets.	Make	a	standing
date	with	yourself	for	“mental	health	days”	featuring	a	quiet	hike,	a	favorite	old
movie,	or	a	weekend	with	no	social	engagements.
TRANSITING	MERCURY	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

When	Mercury	transits	your	twelfth	house,	you	will	probably	not	sleep	well.
Your	internal	mind-monkey	will	be	nearly	impossible	to	silence.	You	won’t	be
able	to	stop	thinking	about	all	kinds	of	stuff	you’d	rather	not	think	about.	And
even	when	nothing	particular	is	bothering	you,	you	will	find	yourself	wishing
you	could	turn	down	the	volume	on	your	own	mind	for	a	while.

Instead,	indulge	in	daily	power	naps	and	a	lot	of	journaling.	Mercury	is	just
going	through	and	taking	an	inventory	of	everything	stored	in	your	unconscious,
ensuring	there	isn’t	anything	hidden	there	that	would	be	better	brought	into	the
open	and	discussed.	This	is	a	fertile	time	for	writing,	sharing	private	thoughts
with	your	journal	or	readers	or	in	conversation	with	people	you	really	trust.	But
by	the	time	Mercury	leaves	your	twelfth	house,	you’ll	be	ready	for	some	sleep.
TRANSITING	VENUS	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

Here	is	a	simple	ritual	for	Venus’s	transit	of	your	twelfth	house:	Clean	out	your
bedroom	closet.	Get	rid	of	all	the	broken,	ugly,	plastic	clothes	hangers	and	all
the	clothes	that	haven’t	fit	in	twenty	years.	Vacuum	that	sucker.	If	you’re	feeling
particularly	whimsical,	paint	the	inside	a	lovely	color.	Organize	your	clothes	and
shoes.	Make	it	beautiful.

If	you’re	not	hung	up	on	your	closets,	tackle	some	other	ugly,	cluttered	part
of	your	house	or	garage	in	a	similar	fashion.	Get	rid	of	things	that	are	unsightly
or	broken,	or	things	you	hate.	Make	this	part	of	your	house	so	nice	to	look	at	that
you	find	yourself	wanting	to	show	it	off	to	visitors.

The	truth	is,	the	state	of	your	closets,	or	other	places	in	your	life	that	only	you
see,	is	a	pretty	good	barometer	of	how	well	you	treat	yourself	when	no	one	is
looking.	And	that	is	usually	based	on	how	you	feel	inside.	So	for	a	few	weeks,



looking.	And	that	is	usually	based	on	how	you	feel	inside.	So	for	a	few	weeks,
while	Venus	is	in	your	twelfth	house,	show	that	part	of	your	house—and
yourself—a	little	love.
TRANSITING	MARS	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

Mars’s	transits	of	the	twelfth	house	can	be	revealing,	energizing,	and	helpful,	but
only	if	you’re	really	ready	for	them.	Mars	transiting	the	twelfth	house	is	like
bringing	a	drill	sergeant	into	an	infirmary—so	shouty!	He	stomps	around	the
place,	lecturing	you	about	all	the	fear	that’s	holding	you	back	from	having	what
you	want.	He	yells.	He	badgers.	And	it’s	all	going	on	inside	of	you.

Picking	on	yourself	is	not	the	best	use	of	this	transit.	Instead,	roll	up	your
sleeves	and	get	to	work.	What	is	holding	you	back?	The	sooner	you	know,	the
sooner	you	can	push	it	aside.	What	are	you	afraid	of?	Just	facing	your
weaknesses	and	foibles	is	more	courageous	than	you	give	yourself	credit	for.
While	Mars	is	in	your	twelfth	house,	fight	your	demons.	When	you	find	yourself
engaging	in	negative	or	even	cruel	self-talk,	stop	it.	Beating	up	on	yourself	is	not
the	object	here;	developing	strength	and	courage	is.
TRANSITING	JUPITER	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

Jupiter	means	well.	He	bounces	happily	into	the	House	of	Self-Undoing	(as	the
ancients	called	it)	and	urges	you	to	lighten	up.	Then,	after	he’s	spent	part	of	the
year	hanging	out	in	your	personal	dungeon,	he	begins	to	see	your	point.	“It	is
awfully	dark	in	here,”	he	muses.	“If	there	were	just	a	window	or	something,	so
you	could	see	the	terrific	view	outside.	Oh	well.	At	least	I	can	catch	up	on	my
reading.”	Then	a	few	months	go	past,	and	our	normally	jovial	friend	is	really
starting	to	get	bummed	out.	“I	just	want	to	go	somewhere,”	he	groans.	“You	can
only	read	so	many	books,	write	so	much	haiku,	take	so	many	naps!”

By	the	end	of	Jupiter’s	transit	through	your	twelfth	house,	you’re	both	ready
for	him	to	be	gone.	You	want	your	peaceful,	quiet	sanctuary	back,	without
Jupiter’s	big,	hearty,	booming	internal	voice	nagging	at	you	to	go	outside	and
play.	And	Jupiter	will	be	happier	in	the	brighter,	more	active	pastures	of	your
first	house.
TRANSITING	SATURN	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

The	year	before	transiting	Saturn	entered	my	twelfth	house,	several	good	friends
regaled	me	with	stories	of	their	own	experiences	with	that	transit.	They	faced
health	problems,	family	crises,	and	work	challenges.	Mostly,	they	were	slowed
down	from	their	usual	energetic	pace	by	the	physical	necessity	of	taking	it	easy.

I	believed	them	and	took	heed.	But	that	didn’t	stop	me	from	coming	down
with	my	first	serious	health	problem	within	a	couple	of	weeks	of	Saturn	entering
my	twelfth	house.



my	twelfth	house.
In	modern	astrology,	we	try	to	avoid	the	more	terrifying	language	of	ancient

astrologers,	who	had	some	particularly	harsh	things	to	say	about	the	twelfth
house.	It	was	a	house	of	illness	and	confinement,	they	warned.	It	isn’t	always—
not	literally.	I	first	had	this	transit	in	my	early	twenties	when	I	was	hale	and
hearty;	I	got	to	experience	it	in	more	psychological	ways	(no	picnic).

But	it	makes	absolute	sense	that	if	you’re	over	fifty	and	haven’t	been	taking
care	of	yourself,	you	will	eventually	hit	a	wall.	You	are	mortal;	you	have	limits.
And	regardless	of	your	age,	this	is	what	Saturn	transiting	your	twelfth	house	is
meant	to	make	you	understand.	You	have	limits.	Draft	more	sensible	boundaries.
Say	no	more	often.	Take	care	of	yourself—or	Saturn	will	find	ingenious	and
unpleasant	ways	to	make	you	do	it.
TRANSITING	URANUS	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

Uranus	spends	a	long	time	in	each	house	of	your	chart,	and	I	can	tell	you	this:
He	is	not	about	to	spend	those	years	in	your	twelfth	house	sitting	in	quiet
contemplation.	He’s	even	more	restless	than	Mercury	and	stays	so	much	longer.
Within	weeks	of	moving	in,	he’ll	have	rewired	the	place	and	set	up	a	huge	sound
system.	He’ll	be	inviting	people	over	constantly,	and	frankly,	most	of	them	are	a
bit	weird.	Always	hyped	up	on	caffeine	or	other	stimulants,	Uranus	doesn’t	get	a
lot	of	sleep	and	sees	to	it	that	you	don’t,	either.

Seven	years	on	average	is	a	long	time	to	live	with	a	loud,	weird,	hyper
roommate	hanging	out	in	your	unconscious.	Deprived	of	quiet	and	rest	for	so
long,	with	no	gentle	refuge,	you	may	begin	to	get	a	little	buggy	yourself.
Practice	training	your	unconscious	with	meditation	or	even	hypnosis.	Really
fascinating	artistic	or	intellectual	breakthroughs	are	entirely	possible	during	this
transit,	but	you’ve	got	to	find	a	way	to	keep	from	burning	yourself	out.
TRANSITING	NEPTUNE	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

There	are	plenty	of	things	about	ourselves	that	we	hide,	including	from
ourselves.	Our	secret	fears,	shame,	and	obsessions	live	in	the	twelfth	house;
transiting	Neptune	here	is	a	chance	to	let	go	of	these	toxic	secrets.	The	process
of	letting	go,	however,	is	a	little	bit	terrifying,	and	because	the	transit	is	so	long,
a	bit	wearying	as	well.

When	Neptune’s	ocean	is	at	high	tide,	everything	seems	okay,	even	better
than	usual.	But	when	the	tide	goes	out,	everything	is	left	on	the	beach,	exposed,
including	stuff	we	didn’t	even	know	was	lying	around	in	our	unconscious!
Among	the	things	we	have	to	let	go	during	Neptune’s	twelfth	house	transit	are
our	convictions	about	how	the	world	works,	and	any	cherished	concepts	of
ourselves	as	victims.	We	don’t	let	these	things	go	without	a	fight,	which	is	why



ourselves	as	victims.	We	don’t	let	these	things	go	without	a	fight,	which	is	why
Neptune	has	to	stay	here	for	so	long	to	get	the	job	done,	washing	away,	day	after
day,	until	we’re	as	worn	as	a	stone.	Until	all	that	is	left	is	faith.
TRANSITING	PLUTO	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

Pluto	prides	himself	on	having	things	under	control.	He	likes	transiting	your
twelfth	house;	there	is	all	kinds	of	interesting	stuff	in	there	that	you	try	to	ignore,
and	that	lets	him	take	over	the	whole	show.	He	delights	in	digging	up	old	pain,
shame,	and	embarrassment	and	making	you	look	at	it.	You	won’t	get	much
peace	of	mind	while	Pluto	transits	here.	What	you	will	get,	though,	is	an
invaluable	opportunity	to	examine	and	discard	old	psychological	hang-ups	and
find	out	what	is	really	true	about	you.	You	will	need	the	strength	of	being	a
whole,	integrated	person	once	Pluto	moves	into	your	first	house.
TRANSITING	NORTH	NODE	IN	THE	TWELFTH	HOUSE

Usually	the	North	Node’s	transit	through	the	first	house	puts	you	in	a	position	of
dealing	with	rapidly	changing	circumstances.	You	may	have	to	move	or	deal
with	issues	in	a	relationship,	and	you	find	yourself	feeling	constantly	under
siege.	But	once	the	North	Node	moves	into	the	twelfth	house,	things	generally
calm	down	a	bit.	This	is	when	many	of	us	collapse	for	a	while,	retreating	from
the	demands	of	the	world	as	much	as	we	can.	Don’t	resist;	this	is	the	right	time
for	you	to	get	some	rest	and	spiritual	rejuvenation.

While	the	North	Node	is	transiting	the	twelfth	house,	the	South	Node	is	in	the
sixth	house	of	work	and	daily	routines.	The	temptation	will	be	strong	to	escape
into	overwork,	exercise,	and	other	behaviors	that,	while	healthy	on	the	surface,
can	actually	be	counterproductive.	The	twelfth	house	beckons	you	to	spend	time
with	your	inner	self.	Use	the	sixth	house	gift	for	organization	to	engineer	a	daily
routine	that	has	plenty	of	room	for	downtime.



chapter	16

TRANSITS	IN	ACTION

A friend	and	I	have	been	professional	astrologers	since	the	early	1990s.	We
often	laugh	together	about	how,	even	after	all	these	years,	we	can	sit	down
with	a	new	birth	chart	to	prepare	for	a	reading	and	have	absolutely	no	idea

what	any	of	it	means.	Especially	when	you	begin	adding	things	such	as	transits,
all	those	symbols	begin	to	swim	together	into	one,	big	celestial	blob.

You	may	feel	the	same	way,	especially	if	you’ve	just	waded	through	fifteen
whole	chapters	of	this	book,	covering	every	possible	combination	of	transits.
Luckily,	after	years	of	doing	this	kind	of	thing,	astrologers	develop	strategies	for
sorting	it	all	out.	I’ve	simplified	my	own	process	a	lot	over	the	years,	and	that’s
what	I’d	like	to	share	with	you	in	this	chapter.

THE	FANTASTIC	MR.	FOX
As	an	example,	I	offer	the	birth	chart	for	actor	and	activist	Michael	J.	Fox.	Fox
has	enjoyed	widespread	fame	since	starring	in	the	1980s	sitcom	Family	Ties,
including	starring	roles	in	the	blockbuster	Back	to	the	Future	movie	franchise.	In
1998,	at	the	age	of	thirty-seven,	Fox	announced	that	he	had	been	diagnosed	with
early-onset	Parkinson’s	disease.	Now	in	his	fifties,	the	eternally	youthful-
looking	Fox	works	occasionally	in	television	but	devotes	most	of	his	time	to	his
wife,	four	children,	and	his	advocacy	for	Parkinson’s	disease	research.
THE	BIRTH	CHART

We’ll	take	a	look	at	the	transits	for	a	couple	of	key	events	in	Fox’s	life.	First,
though,	let’s	get	to	know	the	birth	chart.	The	aspects	between	natal	planets	and
their	house	placements	identify	a	chart’s	“funny	bones,”	those	very	sensitive
regions	that	react	most	strongly	to	additional	pressure	from	transits.

Michael	J.	Fox	was	born	on	June	9,	1961,	at	12:15	a.m.,	in	Edmonton,
Alberta.	His	Sun	in	Gemini	is	at	the	very	beginning	of	the	fourth	house,	the
traditional	house	of	home,	family,	history,	and	soulful	contemplation.	Without
the	Sun’s	strong	aspects	to	the	Ascendant	and	Midheaven,	it’s	possible	Fox
would	have	been	content	to	live	a	quiet,	private	life	instead	of	moving	away
from	home	at	the	age	of	eighteen	to	seek	a	career	in	show	business.	Someone
born	with	the	Sun	in	the	fourth	house	is	on	a	lifelong	journey	to	develop	deep



born	with	the	Sun	in	the	fourth	house	is	on	a	lifelong	journey	to	develop	deep
confidence	and	a	sense	of	being	at	home	in	the	world.	The	fourth	house	Sun
person	has	emotional	authenticity	that	gives	others	a	deep	sense	of	connection
with	them.

Fox’s	natal	Sun	is	in	a	near-perfect	trine	to	the	natal	Ascendant	in	Aquarius.
The	Ascendant	symbolizes	the	persona,	the	techniques	and	traits	that	we
consciously	cultivate	in	response	to	our	early	environment	to	help	us	deal	with



the	world.	An	Aquarius	Ascendant	personality	is	a	bit	cool	but	also	has	the
enviable	ability	to	put	others	at	ease	and	make	even	complete	strangers	feel	that
they	know	you.	When	the	natal	Sun	is	in	good	aspect	to	the	Ascendant,	what	you
see	is	what	you	get;	this	is	a	person	who	finds	it	relatively	easy	to	“be	himself.”
The	Sun/Ascendant	person	is	generally	charismatic,	appears	confident,	and	has	a
friendly,	upbeat	personality.

Fox’s	natal	Sun	is	also	in	close	opposition	aspect	to	his	Midheaven,	the	angle
of	career	and	reputation.	I	enjoyed	the	title	of	Fox’s	autobiography,	Lucky	Man;
he	has	Sagittarius,	the	“lucky”	sign,	on	the	Midheaven.	Of	course,	with
Sagittarius’s	ruling	planet	Jupiter	in	a	conjunction	with	hardworking	Saturn,	Fox
is	an	example	of	luck	being	what	happens	when	preparation	meets	opportunity.

Fox’s	Sun	is	in	a	sextile	aspect	to	a	powerful	Mars/Uranus	conjunction	in	Leo
in	the	seventh	house.	Those	who	achieve	great	fame	often	have	the	Sun,	Moon,
Venus,	or	Mars	in	close	aspect	to	Uranus.	Uranus	symbolizes	that	bolt	of
lightning,	the	little	extra	“something”	that	makes	someone	interesting	to	watch.
Mars	conjunct	Uranus	can	suggest	working	in	broadcasting-related	fields,	and	it
suggests	that	person	has	what	we	might	call	animal	magnetism.	Fox	is	not
generally	considered	a	sex	symbol,	but	he	has	enormous	popular	appeal	to	both
sexes.

The	seventh	house	is	the	house	of	partnership,	and	Fox	has	enjoyed	a	long,
happy	marriage	to	actress	Tracy	Pollan.	Fox	is	close	in	age	to	President	Barack
Obama,	who	has	exactly	the	same	degree	of	Aquarius	on	the	Ascendant.	The
two	share	this	formidable	Mars,	Uranus,	North	Node,	and	Pluto	combination	in
the	seventh	house,	and	both	have	powerful,	supportive	spouses.

Mercury	is	in	Cancer	in	the	fifth	house,	an	extraordinarily	creative	placement.
If	you	have	Mercury	in	the	fifth	house,	you’re	probably	good	at	lots	of	things,
and	in	fact	probably	pretty	good	at	most	everything	you	decide	to	try.	Mercury	is
trine	Neptune	and	sextile	the	Moon,	Venus,	and	Pluto;	this	is	a	smart	guy	with
many	different	outlets	for	his	intellect.

Fox’s	Moon	and	Venus	are	conjunct	in	Taurus,	which	is	a	strong	sign	for	both
planets.	Despite	past	problems	with	drugs	and	alcohol	(suggested	by	Moon	and
Venus	opposed	escapist	Neptune	and	trine	compulsive	Pluto)	and	having	at	one
time	been	one	of	the	most	famous	men	in	America,	Fox	has	managed	to
maintain	both	his	sanity	and	a	reputation	for	being	down-to-earth	and
unpretentious.

The	Moon	and	Venus	are	in	the	second	house,	the	house	of	money,	and
square	Jupiter	and	Saturn.	Fox	grew	up	in	a	military	family	that	struggled	to
make	ends	meet,	and	in	his	autobiography	he	recounts	his	early	days	in



Hollywood	when	he	was	literally	starving.	He	eventually	became	enormously
wealthy	through	a	combination	of	luck	(Jupiter)	and	hard	work	(Saturn).	His
autobiography	also	describes	the	punishing	schedule	he	maintained	while
shooting	his	hit	TV	series	at	the	same	time	he	was	filming	Back	to	the	Future.
He’s	a	hardworking,	uncomplaining	guy.
CHART	HOT	SPOTS

Every	nook	and	cranny	of	a	birth	chart	is	important,	and	every	bit	of	it	can	yield
fascinating	insights.	But	in	working	with	clients,	I’ve	found	they	almost	never
come	to	me	because	everything’s	going	great	and	they	just	want	a	consultation
to	do	some	fine-tuning.	Most	come	because	they	are	in	crisis,	major	things	are
happening,	and	they’re	freaked	out	about	it.

In	each	individual	birth	chart	there	are	high-tension	spots	that	are	particularly
sensitive.	Find	transits	to	those	spots,	and	you	find	the	source	of	the	problem.

To	find	them,	I	first	look	for	natal	planets	that	are	close	to	the	angles	(the
cusps	of	the	first,	fourth,	seventh,	and	tenth	houses).	In	Fox’s	birth	chart,	for
example,	the	Sun	is	conjunct	the	IC	(fourth	house	cusp)	and	sextile	Mars	and
Uranus,	which	are	both	conjunct	the	Descendant	(seventh	house	cusp).	Planets
close	to	any	angle	are	high-tension	points,	as	resonant	as	a	tightly	stretched
drumhead.	Anytime	a	transit	touches	these	planets,	the	chart	will	wake	up	and
take	notice.

Next	I	look	for	tense	combinations	involving	the	Sun	or	Moon.	In	Fox’s
chart,	the	Moon	and	Venus	are	opposed	Neptune	and	square	Jupiter/Saturn.
When	two	or	more	planets	in	opposition	to	each	other	also	make	a	square	to
another	planet,	the	configuration	is	called	a	T-square,	and	it’s	a	dynamic
planetary	network	in	the	chart.

The	conjunction	of	Jupiter	and	Saturn	is	a	generational	one,	happening	every
twenty	years	and	landing	in	the	charts	of	everyone	born	within	the	same	couple
of	years.	It’s	a	difficult	combination	that	feels	a	bit	like	trying	to	drive	with	one
foot	on	the	accelerator	and	the	other	on	the	brakes.	People	born	with	this	aspect
in	their	birth	charts	are	incredibly	ambitious	and	hardworking.	They	often	have
the	feeling	that	they’re	starting	out	with	a	disadvantage	and	have	to	work	extra
hard	to	get	where	they	want	to	go.

In	the	twelfth	house,	this	combination	can	suggest	poor	sleep,	self-defeating
habits,	and	even	chronic	health	problems.	Add	a	square	from	the	Moon	and
Venus,	and	the	struggles	become	very	personal	and	even	painful	on	a	daily	level.
The	opposition	from	the	Moon/Venus	to	Neptune,	and	the	squares	to	the	twelfth
house	planets,	are	real	danger	signals	for	addiction,	especially	with	the	trine	to



Pluto.	(Note:	Good	aspects,	such	as	sextiles	and	trines,	are	not	always	a	good
thing	when	difficult	planets	are	involved!	Good	can	simply	mean	that	things
flow	without	interruption,	and	sometimes	it’s	helpful	to	have	a	system	of
planetary	checks	and	balances	to	keep	planets	such	as	Pluto	in	line.)

I	would	pay	attention	when	planets	such	as	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	and
Pluto,	as	well	as	the	Lunar	Nodes	(and	eclipses),	are	transiting	through	the	fixed
signs—Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio,	and	Aquarius.	Transits	in	these	signs	will	activate
this	Moon/Venus,	Jupiter/Saturn,	and	Neptune	T-square	and	trigger	any	self-
defeating	behaviors	that	may	be	associated	with	them.



WHAT	IT	LOOKS	LIKE	WHEN	SOMEONE	BECOMES	WILDLY
FAMOUS

Let’s	pretend	that	it’s	summer	1985,	and	Michael	J.	Fox	has	come	to	you	for
a	reading.	His	burning	question:	Will	his	new	film,	Back	to	the	Future,	be	a
success	and	boost	his	career?

Apart	from	his	birth	chart,	which	we	already	know	describes	a	charismatic,
hardworking,	likeable,	lucky	guy,	let’s	look	at	his	transits	for	the	date	of	the
film’s	release	and	see	what	we	find.
ASTROLOGICALLY	CRITICAL	AGE



ASTROLOGICALLY	CRITICAL	AGE

First,	I	consider	the	client’s	age.	Certain	ages	are	an	astrological	traffic	jam	for
everyone.	The	ages	of	fourteen,	twenty-one,	twenty-eight/twenty-nine,	thirty-
five	through	forty-two,	and	fifty-five	through	sixty,	for	instance,	tend	to	be	very
hectic	periods,	as	the	outer	planets	form	critical	angles	to	their	position	in	the
birth	chart.	Fox	was	twenty-four	in	1985,	an	age	when	everyone	experiences	a
Jupiter	return.	Otherwise,	it’s	a	pleasant	lull	between	the	crazy	rebellion	of	age
twenty-one	(transiting	Uranus	square	natal	Uranus,	transiting	Saturn	square	natal
Saturn)	and	the	age	of	about	twenty-nine,	when	Saturn	returns	to	its	natal
position.
TRANSITING	PLANETS	CONJUNCT	THE	ANGLES

Next,	are	any	of	the	outer	planets—Jupiter,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto—
making	a	conjunction	to	the	angles	of	the	chart?	On	this	day,	transiting	Jupiter	is
just	a	few	degrees	from	Fox’s	natal	Ascendant,	a	transit	that	occurs	only	once
every	twelve	years.	Jupiter	crossing	the	Ascendant	is	like	UPS	delivering	a	very
nice	package	to	your	door.	And	remember,	Fox	has	just	had	his	second	Jupiter
return,	so	he’s	beginning	a	new	twelve-year	cycle	of	personal	growth	and
exploration;	this	is	an	energized	Jupiter.

More	dramatically,	transiting	Uranus,	the	planet	of	sudden	and	explosive
change,	has	just	moved	over	the	Midheaven	of	Fox’s	chart.	Anyone	who	lives	to
age	eighty-four	has	a	chance	to	enjoy	this	transit	at	least	once,	though	few	will
achieve	Fox’s	level	of	fame.	Remember,	Uranus	is	very	prominent	in	Fox’s	birth
chart.	It’s	close	to	an	angle,	conjunct	Mars,	and	sextile	the	Sun.	It’s	also	in	a
trine	aspect	to	the	natal	Midheaven.	When	two	points	that	are	in	strong	natal
aspect	to	each	other	also	come	together	by	transit,	the	significance	of	the	transit
is	much	greater.

Armed	only	with	these	two	pieces	of	information,	we	could	safely	say	that
big	things	were	about	to	happen	for	the	charming	Canadian	actor.
TRANSITING	PLANETS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN	OR	MOON

Next	we’ll	look	to	see	whether	the	transiting	outer	planets	are	making	close
aspects	to	the	natal	Sun	or	Moon.	On	this	date,	transiting	Jupiter	is	trine	the	natal
Sun,	an	aspect	that	generally	indicates	beneficial	growth	and	popularity	(and
makes	you	a	little	full	of	yourself	if	you’re	not	careful).	Saturn	is	making	a
quincunx	aspect	to	the	Sun,	which	could	suggest	that	some	growing	up	is	in
order,	and	that	it	will	not	be	comfortable.	Uranus	is	opposed	the	natal	Sun,
bringing	sudden	attention	on	a	level	that	might	be	a	little	scary	to	a	person	with
the	Sun	in	the	fourth	house.	And	transiting	Pluto,	newly	in	Scorpio,	is	in	a	tight
opposition	to	his	sensitive	Moon/Venus	combination.	Pluto	will	often	bring



opposition	to	his	sensitive	Moon/Venus	combination.	Pluto	will	often	bring
tremendous	wealth	when	it	connects	with	Venus	or	planets	in	the	second	house,
and	this	film	quickly	promoted	the	already-successful	Fox	into	a	rarefied	income
bracket.

If	I	were	chatting	with	him	at	this	time,	I	would	probably	say	something	such
as,	“You	know	your	life	is	never	going	to	be	the	same,	right?”	I’d	suggest
making	sure	he	really	trusts	his	financial	advisors	and	has	a	plan	in	place	to	take
care	of	himself	emotionally	and	physically	during	what	promises	to	be	a	very
exciting	but	potentially	exhausting	ride.
JUPITER	RETURN

We	mentioned	the	Jupiter	return	before,	but	let’s	take	a	closer	look.	Jupiter
doesn’t	move	as	slowly	as	his	outer-planet	brethren,	but	a	twelve-year	cycle	is
nothing	to	sneeze	at.	You	will	only	have	a	handful	of	Jupiter	returns	in	your
lifetime,	about	eight	at	the	most.	It’s	worth	remembering,	too,	that	Jupiter	is	a
huge,	swaggering,	king-size	planet,	and	his	transits	are	far	from	subtle.

When	Jupiter	returns	to	its	position	in	your	birth	chart,	you’re	beginning	an
important	new	cycle	of	growth.	In	particular,	career	and	education	are	subject	to
exciting	developments	during	this	time.	Jupiter’s	return	is	a	fortunate	transit
overall,	but	it’s	also	like	a	big,	powerful	car:	Unless	you’re	a	very	cautious	and
experienced	driver,	you	could	run	off	the	road.
OUTER	PLANETS	IN	ASPECT	TO	PLANETS	OTHER	THAN	SUN	AND	MOON

On	this	date,	there	is	a	lot	of	transiting	outer-planet	activity	involving	Mars,
which	as	we	know	is	a	crucial	planet	in	Fox’s	birth	chart.	Transiting	Jupiter	is
opposed	Mars,	transiting	Saturn	is	square	Mars,	and	transiting	Uranus	is	trine
Mars.	If	that	sounds	like	a	lot	of	mixed	messages,	I’m	sure	that’s	the	way	it	felt,
too.	On	one	hand,	the	sky	is	the	limit	(Jupiter),	but	on	the	other	hand	there	is	a
lot	of	brutally	hard	work	on	the	horizon	(Saturn),	and	oh	by	the	way,	you	will	no
longer	recognize	your	own	life	(Uranus).

I’d	be	keeping	an	eye	on	transiting	Neptune	and	Pluto,	both	making	aspects	to
natal	Mercury	and	Venus.	Mental	exhaustion	and	multiple	opportunities	for	self-
indulgence	could	set	up	a	perfect	storm	for	overdoing	it	with	alcohol	or	drugs.
But	when	Neptune	connects	with	Venus,	there	is	also	the	whisper	of	a	possible
love	affair	on	the	horizon.	It	was	during	this	time	that	Fox	worked	with	actress
Tracy	Pollan,	who	played	his	girlfriend	on	Family	Ties.	They	later	reconnected,
fell	in	love,	and	were	married	in	1988.
ECLIPSES

The	Moon’s	North	Node	is	in	Taurus	on	this	date.	This	tells	us	that	this	year’s
eclipses,	around	May	and	November	(when	the	transiting	Sun	conjuncts	the



eclipses,	around	May	and	November	(when	the	transiting	Sun	conjuncts	the
Lunar	Nodes),	will	probably	make	close	aspects	to	the	most	high-tension
configurations	in	Fox’s	chart:	the	Moon/Venus,	Jupiter/Saturn,	Neptune	T-
square,	and	the	Ascendant	opposed	Mars	and	Uranus	in	Leo.	I	would	look	to	the
period	1975–1976,	when	eclipses	previously	aspected	these	same	points,	for
more	detailed	insights	about	what	to	expect	from	the	current	eclipses.

In	his	autobiography,	Fox	wrote	that	during	that	period	he	had	his	first	and
only	“real”	office	job.	Obsessed	with	music,	he	used	the	money	he	earned	that
summer	to	buy	a	guitar.	By	the	next	summer,	he	had	landed	his	first	television
acting	job,	earning	as	much	in	a	single	week	as	his	“real”	job	had	paid	all
summer.	This	marked	a	crucial	turning	point	in	his	perspective	about	work,
earnings,	and	the	determination	to	make	a	career	doing	something	he	enjoyed.
MARS

It’s	helpful	when	talking	about	career	to	look	at	transiting	Mars’s	position
relative	to	its	birth	placement.	On	this	date,	transiting	Mars	was	one	full	sign
behind	his	natal	Mars.	He	would	have	a	Mars	return	in	about	a	month	and	a	half.
My	usual	counsel	to	someone	in	this	phase	of	the	Mars	cycle	would	be	to	rest
up,	ride	the	crest	of	the	existing	wave,	and	conserve	your	energy	for	a	new	cycle
of	projects	that	begins	in	a	couple	of	months.	Beginning	new	things	at	the	wrong
phase	in	the	Mars	cycle	can	lead	to	burnout	and	aborted	efforts.	Especially
when,	like	Fox,	you’d	just	spent	an	exhausting	year	filming	a	big-budget	movie
while	simultaneously	taping	your	hit	television	series.
MINOR	TRANSITS

I	wouldn’t	normally	pay	a	lot	of	attention	to	the	transits	of	a	particular	day,	but
for	Fox,	this	was	no	ordinary	day.	I	would	look	for	some	kind	of	connection
between	the	inner	planets,	particularly	the	Sun,	Moon,	or	Mercury,	and	the	birth
chart.	On	this	day,	the	transiting	Sun	at	11	Cancer	was	conjunct	Fox’s	fifth
house	Mercury,	transiting	Mercury	was	opposed	his	natal	Jupiter	(and	square
Moon/Venus	and	Neptune),	and	the	transiting	Moon	in	Capricorn	was	conjunct
his	natal	Saturn.	These	are	minor	“timing”	transits	that	tell	us	that,	within	the
span	of	a	few	days,	the	major	transiting	aspects	from	Jupiter,	Uranus,	Neptune,
and	Pluto	would	be	triggered,	and	their	energy	set	free	into	the	world.

And	that’s	when	Back	to	the	Future	was	released,	and	made	Michael	J.	Fox
one	of	the	biggest	stars	in	the	world.



HOW	IT	LOOKS	WHEN	SOMEONE	HITS	ROCK	BOTTOM

In	the	summer	of	1992,	Michael	J.	Fox,	fresh	off	a	string	of	box	office
failures,	was	living	with	a	terrible	secret:	The	previous	October,	he	had	been
diagnosed	with	Parkinson’s	disease.	In	self-described	denial,	he	had	turned	to
alcohol	to	cope.	In	his	autobiography	he	identifies	June	27,	1992,	as	the	day
when	he	hit	his	personal	“rock	bottom.”
ASTROLOGICALLY	CRITICAL	AGE

Fox	had	just	turned	thirty-one	and	had	experienced	his	first	Saturn	return	the
previous	year,	just	about	the	time	he	received	his	Parkinson’s	diagnosis.	If	he



previous	year,	just	about	the	time	he	received	his	Parkinson’s	diagnosis.	If	he
were	a	client	and	I	didn’t	know	the	details,	I	would	talk	about	the	Saturn	return
as	a	difficult	time,	emphasizing	the	need	to	take	authority	over	his	life	in	some
important	way,	and	ask	whether	he’d	experienced	a	spiritual	or	health	crisis
(Saturn	in	the	twelfth	house).	This	was	a	highly	significant	Saturn	return,
representing	an	ongoing	process	of	maturation	that	extends	well	beyond	the
actual	transit.
TRANSITING	PLANETS	CONJUNCT	THE	ANGLES

There	is	only	one	transiting	planet	conjunct	an	angle	of	the	chart	on	this	day,	but
it’s	a	doozy:	Transiting	Saturn	is	within	1	degree	of	a	conjunction	with	his	natal
Ascendant.

Saturn	transiting	the	twelfth	house	can	be	awful.	It’s	a	time	to	sort	through
and	take	responsibility	for	the	various	skeletons	in	your	psychological	closet.
This	can	be	a	difficult	and	often	demoralizing	process,	especially	for	someone
born	with	Saturn	in	this	house	(and	particularly	spooky	skeletons	in	their	closet).

Saturn	finally	crossing	the	Ascendant	is	an	absolutely	critical,	once-every-
twenty-nine-years	transit.	I’ve	seen	it	reward,	punish,	and	(literally,	in	the	case
of	President	Franklin	Roosevelt,	who	contracted	polio	under	this	transit)
paralyze	people.	Much	depends	on	how	you	attended	to	the	work	of	transiting
Saturn	in	the	twelfth	house.

For	Fox,	Saturn’s	transit	of	his	twelfth	house	was	one	of	the	most	difficult
periods	of	his	life,	beginning	with	the	death	of	his	father	in	January	1990.	In
October	1991	he	received	a	diagnosis	of	Parkinson’s	disease.	It	took	another
year	of	hard	drinking	and	denial	before	he	was	ready	to	accept	the	challenge	of
transiting	Saturn	at	his	Ascendant,	step	up	to	the	plate,	and	deal	with	the	new
reality	of	his	life.
TRANSITING	PLANETS	IN	ASPECT	TO	THE	NATAL	SUN	OR	MOON

On	this	date,	Jupiter	was	transiting	the	seventh	house	and	preparing	to	square	the
natal	Sun.	It	was	Fox’s	wife	Tracy	(seventh	house)	who	called	him	out	(square)
on	his	hubris	(Sun).	Transiting	Saturn,	besides	conjoining	the	Ascendant,	was
trine	Fox’s	Sun.	Fortunately,	he	decided	to	assume	personal	responsibility	(Sun)
and	accept	the	reality	(Saturn)	of	the	situation.

Uranus/Neptune	and	Pluto	were	all	forming	quincunx	aspects	to	the	Sun.
When	two	or	more	planets	are	forming	sextiles	to	each	other	while
simultaneously	forming	a	quincunx	to	another	planet,	the	configuration	is	called
a	yod,	or	“the	finger	of	God.”	The	planet	that	is	the	focus	of	the	two	quincunxes,
in	this	case	the	Sun,	the	symbol	of	pride	and	essential	selfhood,	is	the	planet



that’s	being	“pointed	at.”	There	could	have	been	no	more	perfect	expression	of
this	symbolism	than	Tracy	Pollan	confronting	her	husband	that	morning	with	the
question,	“Is	this	who	you	want	to	be?”	The	Sun	is	the	symbol	of	who	we	want
to	be,	and	Fox	decided	that	the	drunken	mess	he	had	become	was	not	that
person.
OUTER	PLANETS	IN	ASPECT	TO	OTHER	PLANETS

Transiting	Jupiter	trine	natal	Moon/Venus	on	this	date	is	a	kind	of	grace	note,
symbolizing	a	partner	who	is	not	afraid	to	confront	you	when	you’re	wrong	(in
Virgo,	conjunct	natal	Pluto),	but	who	does	it	out	of	genuine	love.	Plenty	of
people	have	hit	a	personal	rock	bottom	without	having	anyone	left	in	their	life
who	loves	and	supports	them.	Even	at	his	lowest	point,	Fox	was	a	lucky	man.

Transiting	Saturn	was	opposed	Mars/Uranus	on	this	date.	Fifteen	years
before,	in	1977,	transiting	Saturn	was	on	the	opposite	side	of	his	chart,	conjunct
natal	Mars	and	Uranus.	Then,	Fox	was	an	excited	young	kid	working	on	his	first
television	series,	setting	out	on	a	career	path	that	led	him	here,	to	this	moment	in
time.
ECLIPSES

The	transiting	Lunar	Nodes	on	this	date	are	in	the	first	degrees	of	Capricorn	and
Cancer.	Ten	years	before,	on	June	21,	1982,	a	solar	eclipse	hit	this	same	spot.
Three	months	later,	Family	Ties	debuted.	In	June	1992,	life	was	again	getting
ready	to	change	irrevocably	for	Fox.	It	would	be	another	six	years	before	he
would	disclose	his	disease	to	the	public,	but	this	was	the	moment	when	he	began
to	take	control	and	figure	out	how	to	proceed	with	life—and	deal	with	his
diagnosis—in	a	much	more	effective	way.
MINOR	TRANSITS

Interestingly,	the	Sun	on	this	date	was	within	5	degrees	of	its	position	on	the	day
Back	to	the	Future	was	released:	6	degrees	of	Cancer,	very	close	to	a
conjunction	with	natal	Mercury.	The	Moon	was	in	the	last	degrees	of	Taurus,
trine	his	natal	Saturn.	And	Mercury,	newly	in	Leo,	had	just	finished	opposing
Saturn.	The	view	had	gotten	as	dark	as	it	could	be;	now	it	was	time	to	turn	the
corner	and	let	in	the	light.

And	that,	my	friends,	is	one	astrologer’s	example	of	how	to	sort	through	and
decipher	transits	of	key	events.	My	method	isn’t	the	only	one,	or	even	the	“right”
one;	there	are	as	many	ways	of	decoding	transits	as	there	are	astrologers	reading



charts.	I	hope	you	will	be	able	to	use	my	example,	as	well	as	the	other	tools	in
this	book,	to	practice	and	eventually	devise	your	own	strategies.

Each	of	us,	famous	or	not,	lives	a	life	that	is	a	series	of	rich	and	fascinating
stories.	My	love	for	following	the	narratives	of	people’s	lives	is	why	I	became
interested	in	astrology.	Perhaps	you	picked	up	this	book	for	similar	reasons.
Learning	to	analyze	transits	is	one	of	many	tools	astrology	offers	for	better
understanding	your	own	story	and	the	stories	of	the	people	you	love.	Transits
define	the	chapters,	provide	the	subheadings,	and	all	in	all	provide	a	tidy	outline
to	understand	and	anticipate	life’s	highest	and	lowest	moments.

I’ve	written	this	book	one	hot,	slow	summer,	with	transiting	Pluto	making	a
slow,	lazy	trine	to	my	natal	Midheaven.	It	suggests	a	transformative	journey,	and
that’s	what	this	has	been	for	me.	You	never	really	know	what	you	know	until
you	try	to	share	it	with	someone	else.

I	thank	you	for	being	one	of	those	someones	and	wish	you	a	lifetime	of
fascinating	transits!



APPENDICES



TABLE	1:	PLANETS	IN	SIGNS,	2015–2025,	JUPITER–PLUTO



Jupiter	enters	Virgo Aug.	11,	2015



Jupiter	enters	Libra Sept.	9,	2016
Jupiter	enters	Scorpio Oct.	10,	2017



Jupiter	enters	Sagittarius Nov.	8,	2018



Jupiter	enters	Capricorn Dec.	2,	2019



Jupiter	enters	Aquarius Dec.	19,	2020



Jupiter	enters	Pisces May	13,	2021



Jupiter	enters	Aquarius July	28,	2021



Jupiter	enters	Pisces Dec.	29,	2021



Jupiter	enters	Aries May	10,	2022



Jupiter	enters	Pisces Oct.	28,	2022



Jupiter	enters	Aries Dec.	20,	2022



Jupiter	enters	Taurus May	16,	2023



Jupiter	enters	Gemini May	25,	2024



Jupiter	enters	Cancer June	9,	2025



Saturn	enters	Sagittarius Dec.	23,	2014



Saturn	enters	Scorpio June	15,	2015



Saturn	enters	Sagittarius Sept.	18,	2015



Saturn	enters	Capricorn Dec.	20,	2017



Saturn	enters	Aquarius Mar.	22,	2020



Saturn	enters	Capricorn July	2,	2020



Saturn	enters	Aquarius Dec.	17,	2020



Saturn	enters	Pisces Mar.	7,	2023



Saturn	enters	Aries May	25,	2025



Saturn	enters	Pisces Sept.	1,	2025



Uranus	enters	Taurus May	15,	2018



Uranus	enters	Aries Nov.	6,	2018



Uranus	enters	Taurus Mar.	6,	2019



Uranus	enters	Gemini July	7,	2025



Uranus	enters	Taurus Nov.	8,	2025



Neptune	enters	Aries Mar.	30,	2025



Neptune	enters	Pisces Oct.	22,	2025



Pluto	enters	Aquarius Mar.	23,	2023



Pluto	enters	Capricorn June	11,	2023



Pluto	enters	Aquarius Jan.	21,	2024



Pluto	enters	Capricorn Sept.	2,	2024



Pluto	enters	Aquarius Nov.	19,	2024



TABLE	2:	PLANETARY	RETROGRADE	PERIODS,	2015–2025
MERCURY	RETROGRADE
Jan.	21,	2015–Feb.	11,	2015
May	19,	2015–June	11,	2015
Sept.	17,	2015–Oct.	9,	2015
Jan.	5,	2016–Jan.	25,	2016
Apr.	28,	2016–May	22,	2016
Aug.	30,	2016–Sept.	22,	2016
Dec.	19,	2016–Jan.	8,	2017
Apr.	10,	2017–May	3,	2017
Aug.	13,	2017–Sept.	5,	2017
Dec.	3,	2017–Dec.	23,	2017
Mar.	23,	2018–Apr.	15,	2018
July	26,	2018–Aug.	19,	2018
Nov.	17,	2018–Dec.	6,	2018
Mar.	5,	2019–Mar.	28,	2019
July	8,	2019–Aug.	1,	2019
Oct.	31,	2019–Nov.	20,	2019
Feb.	17,	2020–Mar.	10,	2020
June	18,	2020–July	12,	2020
Oct.	14,	2020–Nov.	3,	2020
Jan.	30,	2021–Feb.	21,	2021
May	29,	2021–June	22,	2021
Sept.	27,	2021–Oct.	18,	2021
Jan.	14,	2022–Feb.	4,	2022
May	10,	2022–June	3,	2022
Sept.	10,	2022–Oct.	2,	2022
Dec.	29,	2022–Jan.	18,	2023
Apr.	21,	2023–May	15,	2023
Aug.	23,	2023–Sept.	15,	2023
Dec.	13,	2023–Jan.	2,	2024
Apr.	1,	2024–Apr.	25,	2024
Aug.	5,	2024–Aug.	28,	2024
Nov.	26,	2024–Dec.	15,	2024
Mar.	15,	2025–Apr.	7,	2025
July	18,	2025–Aug.	11,	2025



Nov.	9,	2025–Nov.	29,	2025

	
VENUS	RETROGRADE
July	25,	2015–Sept.	6,	2015
Mar.	4,	2017–Apr.	15,	2017
Oct.	5,	2018–Nov.	16,	2018
May	13,	2020–June	25,	2020
Dec.	19,	2021–Jan.	29,	2022
July	23,	2023–Sept.	4,	2023
Mar.	2,	2025–Apr.	13,	2025

	
MARS	RETROGRADE
Apr.	17,	2016–June	30,	2016
June	26,	2018–Aug.	27,	2018
Sept.	9,	2020–Nov.	14,	2020
Oct.	30,	2022–Jan.	12,	2023
Dec.	6,	2024–Feb.	24,	2025

	
JUPITER	RETROGRADE
Dec.	8,	2014–Apr.	8,	2015
Jan.	8,	2016–May	9,	2016
Feb.	6,	2017–June	9,	2017
Mar.	9,	2018–July	10,	2018
Apr.	10,	2019–Aug.	11,	2019
May	14,	2020–Sept.	13,	2020
June	20,	2021–Oct.	18,	2021
July	28,	2022–Nov.	23,	2022
Sept.	4,	2023–Dec.	31,	2023
Oct.	9,	2024–Feb.	4,	2025
Nov.	11,	2025–Mar.	11,	2026

	
SATURN	RETROGRADE
Mar.	14,	2015–Aug.	2,	2015
Mar.	25,	2016–Aug.	13,	2016
Apr.	6,	2017–Aug.	25,	2017
Apr.	18,	2018–Sept.	6,	2018



Apr.	18,	2018–Sept.	6,	2018
Apr.	30,	2019–Sept.	18,	2019
May	11,	2020–Sept.	29,	2020
May	23,	2021–Oct.	11,	2021
June	4,	2022–Oct.	23,	2022
June	17,	2023–Nov.	4,	2023
June	29,	2024–Nov.	15,	2024
July	13,	2025–Nov.	28,	2025

	
URANUS	RETROGRADE
July	26,	2015–Dec.	26,	2015
July	29,	2016–Dec.	29,	2016
Aug.	3,	2017–Jan.	2,	2018
Aug.	7,	2018–Jan.	6,	2019
Aug.	12,	2019–Jan.	11,	2020
Aug.	15,	2020–Jan.	14,	2021
Aug.	20,	2021–Jan.	18,	2022
Aug.	24,	2022–Jan.	22,	2023
Aug.	29,	2023–Jan.	27,	2024
Sept.	1,	2024–Jan.	30,	2025
Sept.	6,	2025–Feb.	4,	2026

	
NEPTUNE	RETROGRADE
June	12,	2015–Nov.	18,	2015
June	13,	2016–Nov.	20,	2016
June	16,	2017–Nov.	22,	2017
June	19,	2018–Nov.	25,	2018
June	21,	2019–Nov.	27,	2019
June	23,	200–Nov.	29,	2020
June	25,	2021–Dec.	1,	2021
June	28,	2022–Dec.	4,	2022
June	30,	2023–Dec.	6,	2023
July	2,	2024–Dec.	7,	2024
July	4,	2025–Dec.	10,	2025

	
PLUTO	RETROGRADE



Apr.	17,	2015–Sept.	25,	2015
Apr.	18,	2016–Sept.	26,	2016
Apr.	20,	2017–Sept.	2,	2017
Apr.	22,	2018–Oct.	1,	2018
Apr.	24,	2019–Oct.	3,	2019
Apr.	25,	2020–Oct.	4,	2020
Apr.	27,	2021–Oct.	6,	2021
Apr.	29,	2022–Oct.	8,	2022
May	1,	2023–Oct.	11,	2023
May	2,	2024–Oct.	12,	2024
May	4,	2025–Oct.	14,	2025



TABLE	3:	NEW	MOON	TABLE,	2015–2025	(Calculated	for	Greenwich	Mean	Time)
Jan.	20,	2015 00°	Aquarius	08’
Feb.	18,	2015 29°	Aquarius	59’
Mar.	20,	2015 29°	Pisces	27’
Apr.	18,	2015 28°	Aries	25’
May	18,	2015 26°	Taurus	55’
June	16,	2015 25°	Gemini	07’
July	16,	2015 23°	Cancer	14’
Aug.	14,	2015 21°	Leo	30’
Sept.	13,	2015 20°	Virgo	10’
Oct.	13,	2015 19°	Libra	20’
Nov.	11,	2015 19°	Scorpio	00’
Dec.	11,	2015 19°	Sagittarius	02’

Jan.	10,	2016 19°	Capricorn	13’
Feb.	8,	2016 19°	Aquarius	15’
Mar.	9,	2016 18°	Pisces	55’
Apr.	7,	2016 18°	Aries	04’
May	6,	2016 16°	Taurus	41’
June	5,	2016 14°	Gemini	53’
July	4,	2016 12°	Cancer	53’
Aug.	2,	2016 10°	Leo	57’
Sept.	1,	2016 09°	Virgo	21’
Oct.	1,	2016 08°	Libra	15’
Oct.	30,	2016 07°	Scorpio	43’
Nov.	29,	2016 07°	Sagittarius	42’
Dec.	29,	2016 07°	Capricorn	59’

Jan.	28,	2017 08°	Aquarius	15’
Feb.	26,	2017 08°	Pisces	12’
Mar.	28,	2017 07°	Aries	37’
Apr.	26,	2017 06°	Taurus	27’
May	25,	2017 04°	Gemini	47’
June	24,	2017 02°	Cancer	47’
July	23,	2017 00°	Leo	44’
Aug.	21,	2017 28°	Leo	52’
Sept.	20,	2017 27°	Virgo	27’
Oct.	19,	2017 26°	Libra	35’



Oct.	19,	2017 26°	Libra	35’
Nov.	18,	2017 26°	Scorpio	19’
Dec.	18,	2017 26°	Sagittarius	31’
Jan.	17,	2018 26°	Capricorn	54’
Feb.	15,	2018 27°	Aquarius	07’
Mar.	17,	2018 26°	Pisces	53’
Apr.	16,	2018 26°	Aries	02’
May	15,	2018 24°	Taurus	36’
June	13,	2018 22°	Gemini	44’
July	13,	2018 20°	Cancer	41’
Aug.	11,	2018 18°	Leo	41’
Sept.	9,	2018 17°	Virgo	00’
Oct.	9,	2018 15°	Libra	48’
Nov.	7,	2018 15°	Scorpio	11’
Dec.	7,	2018 15°	Sagittarius	07’

Jan.	6,	2019 15°	Capricorn	25’
Feb.	4,	2019 15°	Aquarius	45’
Mar.	6,	2019 15°	Pisces	47’
Apr.	5,	2019 15°	Aries	17’
May	4,	2019 14°	Taurus	10’
June	3,	2019 12°	Gemini	33’
July	2,	2019 10°	Cancer	37’
Aug.	1,	2019 08°	Leo	36’
Aug.	30,	2019 06°	Virgo	46’
Sept.	28,	2019 05°	Libra	20’
Oct.	28,	2019 04°	Scorpio	25’
Nov.	26,	2019 04°	Sagittarius	03’
Dec.	26,	2019 04°	Capricorn	06’

Jan.	24,	2020 04°	Aquarius	21’
Feb.	23,	2020 04°	Pisces	28’
Mar.	24,	2020 04°	Aries	12’
Apr.	23,	2020 03°	Taurus	24’
May	22,	2020 02°	Gemini	04’
June	21,	2020 00°	Cancer	21’
July	20,	2020 28°	Cancer	26’
Aug.	19,	2020 26°	Leo	35’
Sept.	17,	2020 25°	Virgo	00’



Sept.	17,	2020 25°	Virgo	00’
Oct.	16,	2020 23°	Libra	53’
Nov.	15,	2020 23°	Scorpio	17’
Dec.	14,	2020 23°	Sagittarius	08’
Jan.	13,	2021 23°	Capricorn	13’
Feb.	11,	2021 23°	Aquarius	16’
Mar.	13,	2021 23°	Pisces	03’
Apr.	12,	2021 22°	Aries	24’
May	11,	2021 21°	Taurus	17’
June	10,	2021 19°	Gemini	47’
July	10,	2021 18°	Cancer	01’
Aug.	8,	2021 16°	Leo	14’
Sept.	7,	2021 14°	Virgo	38’
Oct.	6,	2021 13°	Libra	24’
Nov.	4,	2021 12°	Scorpio	40’
Dec.	4,	2021 12°	Sagittarius	22’

Jan.	2,	2022 12°	Capricorn	20’
Feb.	1,	2022 12°	Aquarius	19’
Mar.	2,	2022 12°	Pisces	06’
Apr.	1,	2022 11°	Aries	30’
Apr.	30,	2022 10°	Taurus	28’
May	30,	2022 09°	Gemini	03’
June	29,	2022 07°	Cancer	22’
July	28,	2022 05°	Leo	38’
Aug.	27,	2022 04°	Virgo	03’
Sept.	25,	2022 02°	Libra	48’
Oct.	25,	2022 02°	Scorpio	00’
Nov.	23,	2022 01°	Sagittarius	37’
Dec.	23,	2022 01°	Capricorn	32’

Jan.	21,	2023 01°	Aquarius	32’
Feb.	20,	2023 01°	Pisces	22’
Mar.	21,	2023 00°	Aries	49’
Apr.	20,	2023 29°	Aries	50’
May	19,	2023 28°	Taurus	25’
June	18,	2023 26°	Gemini	43’
July	17,	2023 24°	Cancer	56’



Aug.	16,	2023 23°	Leo	17’
Sept.	15,	2023 21°	Virgo	58’
Oct.	14,	2023 21°	Libra	07’
Nov.	13,	2023 20°	Scorpio	43’
Dec.	12,	2023 20°Sagittarius	40’
Jan.	11,	2024 20°	Capricorn	44’
Feb.	9,	2024 20°	Aquarius	40’
Mar.	10,	2024 20°	Pisces	16’
Apr.	8,	2024 19°	Aries	24’
May	8,	2024 18°	Taurus	02’
June	6,	2024 16°	Gemini	17’
July	5,	2024 14°	Cancer	23’
Aug.	4,	2024 12°	Leo	34’
Sept.	3,	2024 11°	Virgo	04’
Oct.	2,	2024 10°	Libra	03’
Nov.	1,	2024 09°	Scorpio	35’
Dec.	1,	2024 09°	Sagittarius	32’
Dec.	30,	2024 09°	Capricorn	43’

Jan.	29,	2025 09°	Aquarius	51’
Feb.	28,	2025 09°	Pisces	40’
Mar.	29,	2025 09°	Aries	00’
Apr.	27,	2025 07°	Taurus	46’
May	27,	2025 06°	Gemini	05’
June	25,	2025 04°	Cancer	07’
July	24,	2025 02°	Leo	08’
Aug.	23,	2025 00°	Virgo	23’
Sept.	21,	2025 29°	Virgo	05’
Oct.	21,	2025 28°	Libra	21’
Nov.	20,	2025 28°	Scorpio	11’
Dec.	20,	2025 28°	Sagittarius	24’



TABLE	4:	ECLIPSES	TABLE,	2015–2025	(Calculated	for	Greenwich	Mean	Time)
Mar.	20,	2015 Solar 29°	Pisces	27’
Apr.	4,	2015 Lunar 14°	Libra	24’
Sept.	13,	2015 Solar 20°	Virgo	10’
Sept.	28,	2015 Lunar 04°	Aries	38’

Mar.	9,	2016 Solar 18°	Pisces	55’
Mar.	23,	2016 Lunar 03°	Aries	10’
Aug.	18,	2016 Lunar 26°	Aquarius	00’
Sept.	1,	2016 Solar 09°	Virgo	21’
Sept.	16,	2016 Lunar 24°	Pisces	13’

Feb.	11,	2017 Lunar 22°	Leo	34’
Feb.	26,	2017 Solar 08°	Pisces	11’
Aug.	7,	2017 Lunar 15°	Aquarius	30’
Aug.	21,	2017 Solar 28°	Leo	52’

Jan.	31,	2018 Lunar 11°	Leo	39’
Feb.	15,	2018 Solar 27°	Aquarius	07’
July	13,	2018 Solar 20°	Cancer	41’
July	27,	2018 Lunar 4°	Aquarius	45’
Aug.	11,	2018 Solar 18°	Leo	41’

Jan.	6,	2019 Solar 15°	Capricorn	25’
Jan.	21,	2019 Lunar 00°	Leo	49’
July	2,	2019 Solar 10°	Cancer	37’
July	16,	2019 Lunar 24°	Capricorn	00’
Dec.	26,	2019 Solar 04°	Capricorn	07’

Jan.	10,	2020 Lunar 19°	Cancer	53’
June	21,	2020 Solar 00°	Cancer	21’
July	5,	2020 Lunar 13°	Capricorn	29’
Nov.	30,	2020 Lunar 08°	Gemini	44’
Dec.	14,	2020 Solar 23°	Sagittarius	08’

May	26,	2021 Lunar 05°	Sagittarius	25’
June	10,	2021 Solar 19°	Gemini	47’
Nov.	19,	2021 Lunar 27	°Taurus	14’
Dec.	4,	2021 Solar 12°	Sagittarius	22’

Apr.	30,	2022 Solar 10°	Taurus	28’
May	16,	2022 Lunar 25°	Scorpio	17’



Oct.	25,	2022 Solar 02°	Scorpio	00’
Nov.	8,	2022 Lunar 16°	Taurus	00’
Apr.	20,	2023 Solar 29°	Aries	50’
May	5,	2023 Lunar 14°	Scorpio	58’
Oct.	14,	2023 Solar 21°	Libra	07’
Oct.	28,	2023 Lunar 05°	Taurus	09’

Mar.	25,	2024 Lunar 05°	Libra	07’
Apr.	8,	2024 Solar 19°	Aries	24’
Sept.	18,	2024 Lunar 25°	Pisces	40’
Oct.	2,	2024 Solar 10°	Libra	03’

Mar.	14,	2025 Lunar 23°	Virgo	56’
Mar.	29,	2025 Solar 09°	Aries	00’
Sept.	7,	2025 Lunar 15°	Pisces	22’
Sept.	21,	2025 Solar 29°	Virgo	05’

WORKSHEET:	PRIORITIZING	YOUR	TRANSITS
Are	you	within	one	of	these	critical	age	groups?	If	so,	you’re	reaching	one	or
more	critical	milestones	that	you	share	in	common	with	others	your	age:

14—Pressure	to	plan	ahead	21—Rebellion
28–29—Coming	to	grips	with	maturity	and	mortality	35–42—Midlife	crisis:
the	second	big	rebellion	55–60—Menopause,	preparing	for	retirement	Is
transiting	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	within	a	few	degrees	of	a	conjunction
with	your	Ascendant,	IC,	Descendant,	or	Midheaven?	Are	they	in	a
conjunction	or	opposition	to	your	natal	Sun	or	Moon?

Uranus:	a	personal	declaration	of	independence,	a	breakthrough	in	your
career	Neptune:	sadness,	yearning,	losing	something,	succeeding	in
enchanting	the	world,	possibly	a	big	move	Pluto:	being	faced	with	raw,
unadulterated	reality	Is	transiting	Saturn	within	a	few	degrees	of	a
conjunction	with	your	Ascendant,	IC,	Descendant,	or	Midheaven?	Is	it	in	a
conjunction,	opposition,	or	square	to	your	natal	Sun	or	Moon?	You’re
reassessing	whether	something	in	your	life	is	worth	the	difficulty	of
keeping	it.

Are	you	having	a	Jupiter	return	(Jupiter	returning	to	its	natal	position)?	You’re
beginning	a	new	twelve-year	cycle	of	success	and	prosperity.

Is	transiting	Jupiter	conjunct	your	Ascendant,	IC,	Descendant,	or	Midheaven?
You	are	coming	into	your	own.	Some	kind	of	reward	is	on	its	way.



You	are	coming	into	your	own.	Some	kind	of	reward	is	on	its	way.

Are	you	having	a	Mars	return	(Mars	returning	to	its	natal	position)?	Fight	hard
for	what	you	think	you	want.

This	year’s	eclipses	will	make	aspects	to	roughly	the	same	points	in	your	chart
as	nine	to	ten	years	ago.	What	was	happening	in	your	life	then?	If	faced	with
situations	that	awaken	the	same	feelings,	how	will	you	handle	them?

Are	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto	conjunct,	opposed,	or	square	to	your	natal
Moon,	Venus,	or	Mars?	Read	the	sections	on	Saturn	and	Pluto	for	more	insights.

Is	it	your	birthday?	You’re	having	a	Solar	Return!	Calculate	your	Solar	Return
chart	and	have	a	look.	The	house	the	Sun	is	in	is	where	you	will	shine	this	year.
The	house	with	Leo	on	the	cusp	catches	some	of	the	sunbeams.	Planets	close	to
the	angles	represent	the	forces	that	propel	you	forward	this	year.



WORKSHEET:	MAPPING	YOUR	YEAR
THIS	YEAR’S	PLANETARY	RETROGRADE	PERIODS	(SEE	TABLE	2.)

See	chapter	1	for	tips	about	best	practices	for	retrograde	planets.	Mercury	will
turn	retrograde	three	times.	Venus	and	Mars	may	not	be	retrograde	in	a	given
year.	The	Sun	and	Moon	are	never	retrograde.

	 RX DIRECT RX DIRECT RX DIRECT
Mercury 	 	 	 	 	 	
Venus 	 	 	 	 	 	
Mars 	 	 	 	 	 	
Jupiter 	 	 	 	 	 	
Saturn 	 	 	 	 	 	
Uranus 	 	 	 	 	 	
Neptune 	 	 	 	 	 	
Pluto 	 	 	 	 	 	

THIS	YEAR’S	NEW	MOONS	(SEE	TABLE	3.)
Where	does	each	of	the	year’s	New	Moons	fall	in	your	birth	chart?	See	part	III
for	the	meaning	of	the	Moon	in	each	house;	a	New	Moon	is	more	powerful	but
affects	the	same	areas	of	your	life.

DATE DEGREE	AND	SIGN HOUSE	OF	YOUR	CHART WISHES	AND	INTENTIONS
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	



TRANSITS	OF	THE	SUN

See	chapter	9	to	read	about	the	transiting	Sun	in	your	chart.
When	is	your	Solar	Return?	____________________________
When	will	the	Sun	cross	your…

Ascendant	___________________________
IC	__________________________________
Descendant	__________________________
Midheaven	___________________________

THIS	YEAR’S	ECLIPSES	(SEE	TABLE	4.)
Eclipses	indicate	where	things	need	to	change	in	your	life.	See	chapter	9	for
more	about	eclipses.

DATE SOLAR/LUNAR DEGREE/SIGN HOUSE	OF	YOUR ASPECTS	TO
CHART NATAL	PLANETS

	 	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	 	
	 	 	 	 	

YOUR	PLANETARY	RETURNS

Are	you	having	a	Mars,	Jupiter,	Saturn,	or	Uranus	return	this	year?	Planetary
returns	mark	the	beginning	of	important	planetary	cycles—see	chapters	3	to	8
for	more.

Mars	return	(about	every	2	years)	______________________
Jupiter	return	(every	12	years)	______________________
Saturn	return	(every	29	years)	______________________
Uranus	return	(age	84)	______________________
OTHER	MAJOR	TRANSITS

Are	any	of	the	transiting	outer	planets	making	a	conjunction,	square,	or
opposition	to	your	natal	Sun,	Moon,	Mercury,	Venus,	Mars,	Ascendant,	or
Midheaven	this	year?



	 SUN MOON MERCURY VENUS MARS ASC MC
Tr.	Jupiter 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
Tr.	Saturn 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
Tr.	Uranus 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
Tr.	Neptune 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
Tr.	Pluto 	 	 	 	 	 	 	



RESOURCES

BOOKS
Kent,	April	Elliott.	The	Essential	Guide	to	Practical	Astrology	(Alpha/Penguin,
2011).	If	you’re	very	new	to	astrology	and	finding	that	some	of	the	material	in
this	book	is	a	tad	over	your	head,	never	fear!	I	cover	everything	from	the	signs
of	the	zodiac	to	houses,	planets,	and	aspects	in	this	cheerful	primer.

Forrest,	Steven.	The	Changing	Sky	(Seven	Paws	Press,	2008).	Steven	Forrest	is
one	of	my	favorite	astrologers,	favorite	writers,	favorite	people.	This	book	gives
a	very	good	overview	of	transits,	as	well	as	progressions	and	how	the	two
systems	work	together.	Highly	recommended.

Hand,	Robert.	Planets	in	Transit:	Life	Cycles	for	Living	(Whitford	Press,	2002).
This	has	been	astrology’s	go-to	transit	book	since	the	1970s,	and	deservedly	so.
It’s	huge	and	comprehensive,	and	it	breaks	down	each	planet/planet	transit	by
aspect.	As	of	mid-2014,	Hand	has	announced	he’ll	be	publishing	an	updated
version	of	the	book	sometime	in	2015.

Pottenger,	Rique.	The	American	Ephemeris	for	the	20th	Century,	1900–2000	at
Midnight	(Starcrafts	Publishing,	2008)	and	The	New	American	Ephemeris	for	the
21st	Century,	2000–2100	at	Midnight	(Starcrafts	Publishing,	2006).	This	pair	of
books	covers	two	centuries’	worth	of	planetary	tables.	I	always	like	to	joke	that
these	hefty	volumes	could,	in	fact,	serve	as	tables	themselves	in	a	pinch.
At	midnight	means	that	the	tables	show	planetary	positions	as	calculated	for

midnight	at	Greenwich,	England,	home	of	the	prime	meridian.	Unless	you	live	in
the	same	time	zone	as	Greenwich,	you	will	have	to	do	additional	and	complex
calculations	to	adjust	the	planetary	positions	to	your	time	zone	and	location.	But
the	positions	given	for	Greenwich	at	midnight	will	at	least	get	you	into	the
ballpark,	since	apart	from	the	Moon,	nothing	moves	all	that	quickly	over	the
course	of	a	day.

Occasionally	you’ll	find	ephemerides	that	are	calculated	for	noon	at
Greenwich.	I	used	to	prefer	these,	because	living	on	the	West	Coast,	eight	time
zones	from	Greenwich,	I	found	the	noon	positions	at	Greenwich	were	a	little
closer	to	their	positions	on	the	West	Coast	of	the	United	States	at	the	beginning
of	each	day.



CALCULATING	YOUR	TRANSITS	ONLINE
For	chart	calculation	and	personalized	reports,	visit	Astrodienst	at
www.astro.com.
SOFTWARE

The	charts	and	tables	in	this	book	were	generated	using	Win*Star	professional
software	from	Matrix	Software,	www.astrologysoftware.com.



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
If	ever	there	were	evidence	of	Jupiter’s	benevolence,	it’s	the	opportunity	to	write
this	book	during	his	transit	of	my	ninth	house.	So	thanks	to	Jupiter,	as	well	as
non-planets	Marilyn	Allen,	my	agent,	and	Jill	Alexander,	the	editor	who
launched	this	ship	and	kindly	invited	me	aboard.	I’m	indebted	to	the	Fair	Winds
Press	production	team,	particularly	John	Gettings,	Leah	Tracosas	Jenness,	and
Kathy	Dvorsky,	for	ironing	out	the	rough	edges	and	making	it	all	look	so	classy.

No	one	has	come	right	out	and	said	it,	but	I	know	I’m	not	easy	to	live	with
when	I’m	writing	a	book.	So	I’m	particularly	grateful	for	my	tolerant	and
encouraging	friends	(especially	Tim	Tormey,	Doug	Adair,	Frank	Gualco,
Jeannel	King,	Natori	Moore,	Simone	Butler,	Lori	Rodefer,	Dana	Gerhardt,
Jessica	Shepherd,	Matthew	Currie,	everyone	at	the	San	Diego	Astrological
Society)	and	family	(Drew	Elliott	and	Heather	Galluzzi,	the	Strouds,	Kathy
McLaughlin),	who	endured	my	crankiness,	tears,	and	unavailability	for	the
duration.

Respectful	bows	to	Robert	Hand	and	Steven	Forrest,	esteemed	astro-yodas
whose	previous	work	with	transits	inspired	me	to	the	point	of	crippling	self-
doubt,	and	to	Diane	Ronngren,	my	first	teacher	and	forever	friend.

Most	of	all,	my	thanks	to	Jonny	Kent,	the	most	patient	man	I’ve	ever	known.
The	transits	that	brought	you	to	me	were	the	very	luckiest	of	my	life.



ABOUT	THE	AUTHOR
April	Elliott	Kent	is	the	author	of	The	Essential	Guide	to	Practical	Astrology
(Alpha/Penguin,	2011)	and	Star	Guide	to	Weddings	(Llewellyn,	2008).	A
professional	astrologer	since	1990,	April	has	written	for	The	Mountain
Astrologer	and	Dell	Horoscope	magazines	and	contributed	to	Llewellyn’s
annual	Moon	Sign	and	Sun	Sign	books.	She	has	won	praise	for	her	warm	writing
style	and	ability	to	make	complex	astrological	concepts	accessible.

April’s	website,	BigSkyAstrology.com	is	extremely	popular,	as	are	her
lectures	for	astrology	groups.	She	served	on	the	faculty	of	the	2012	United
Astrological	Conference	and	belongs	to	the	International	Society	for
Astrological	Research	(ISAR).	She	lives	in	San	Diego,	California,	with	her
husband	and	two	surly	cats.



INDEX
A
angles,	22,	209,	213
Aquarius
Jupiter	in,	45
Mars	in,	118
Mercury	in,	107
Moon	in,	128
Neptune	in,	85
Pluto	in,	96
Saturn	in,	59
Uranus	in,	74
Venus	in,	113

Aries
Jupiter	in,	39–40
Mars	in,	116
Mercury	in,	105
Moon	in,	124
Neptune	in,	83
Pluto	in,	94
Saturn	in,	54
Uranus	in,	70
Venus	in,	111

aspects,	13–15,	27,	34–35,	209–210,	213–214
Jupiter,	46–49
Mars,	119–121
Mercury,	108–109
Moon,	129–130,	209–210
Neptune,	86–91
of	outer	planets,	210
Pluto,	98–103
Saturn,	60–65
Sun,	132–134,	209–210



Uranus,	75–79
Astro.com,	136,	144
Astrodienst,	13,	19
autumn	equinox,	136
	

B
birth	chart,	10–11,	204–206
hot	spots,	207–209
transits	and,	13,	23,	34

birthday,	136

C
Cancer
Jupiter	in,	41
Mars	in,	117
Mercury	in,	106
Moon	in,	125
Neptune	in,	84
Pluto	in,	94
Saturn	in,	55
Uranus	in,	71
Venus	in,	111

Capricorn
Jupiter	in,	44–45
Mars	in,	118
Mercury	in,	107
Moon	in,	127–128
Neptune	in,	85
Pluto	in,	96
Saturn	in,	59
Uranus	in,	73
Venus	in,	113

career,	179
children,	185
communication,	165



conjunctions,	34,	209,	213
critical	ages,	209,	213

D
daily	horoscopes,	24–26
destiny,	10,	30–31
	

E
eclipses,	29,	136–139,	178,	210,	214
eighth	house,	154,	159–163
eleventh	house,	184,	189–193
ephemeris,	17–18,	144–145
equinox
autumn,	136
spring,	135

F
fast-moving	planets,	35
fifth	house,	184–189
first	house,	146–149
First	Quarter	Moon,	124
fourth	house,	174–178
Fox,	Michael	J.,	204–215
friendship,	189
Full	Moon,	124,	136

G
Gemini
Jupiter	in,	40–41
Mars	in,	116
Mercury	in,	106
Moon	in,	125
Neptune	in,	83
Pluto	in,	94
Saturn	in,	55
Uranus	in,	71



Venus	in,	111
growth,	150

H
home,	175
horoscope
monthly,	27–28
writing	daily,	24–26

yearly,	28–30
houses
eighth	house,	154,	159–163
eleventh	house,	184,	189–193
fifth	house,	184–189
finding	out	when	planets	are	in,	144
first	house,	146–149
fourth	house,	174–178
length	of	time	planets	are	in,	142
ninth	house,	164,	169–173
pairs	of,	143
second	house,	154–159
seventh	house,	150–153
sixth	house,	194–199
tenth	house,	174,	179–183
third	house,	164–169
transits	in,	142–203
twelfth	house,	194,	199–203

house	systems,	142

I
inner	planets,	11–12,	22.	See	also	specific	planets

J
journeys,	169
Jupiter
in	Aquarius,	45
areas	affected	by,	12,	37



in	Aries,	39–40
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	46–49
in	Cancer,	41
in	Capricorn,	44–45
cycle	through	zodiac,	12
in	eighth	house,	161
in	eleventh	house,	191
in	fifth	house,	187
in	first	house,	148
in	fourth	house,	177
in	Gemini,	40–41
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	41–42
in	Libra,	43
natal,	47,	62,	77,	88–89,	101,	108,	114,	120,	133
in	ninth	house,	171
oppositions,	39
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	45–46
in	retrograde,	16–17
return,	38,	210
in	Sagittarius,	44
in	Scorpio,	43–44
in	second	house,	157
in	seventh	house,	151–152
in	sixth	house,	197
squares,	38–39
in	Taurus,	40
in	tenth	house,	181
in	third	house,	167
transits	of,	12,	30,	36–49
in	twelfth	house,	201
in	Virgo,	42
yearly	movement	of,	29

K



Koch	house	system,	142

L
Last	Quarter	Moon,	124
Leo
Jupiter	in,	41–42
Mars	in,	117
Mercury	in,	106
Moon	in,	126
Neptune	in,	84
Pluto	in,	95
Saturn	in,	56
Uranus	in,	71
Venus	in,	112

Libra
Jupiter	in,	43
Mars	in,	117
Mercury	in,	106
Moon	in,	126–127
Neptune	in,	84
Pluto	in,	95
Saturn	in,	57
Uranus	in,	72
Venus	in,	112

life	transitions,	30–31
long-range	planning,	31
lunar	eclipses,	136–139,	210,	214
Lunar	Nodes
Jupiter	in	aspect	to,	49
Neptune	in	aspect	to,	90
Pluto	in	aspect	to,	103

lunar	phases,	25,	27,	123–124
lunar	returns,	136–137

M
marriage,	150
Mars



Mars
in	Aquarius,	118
areas	affected	by,	12,	115
in	Aries,	116
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	119–121
in	Cancer,	117
in	Capricorn,	118
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	116–119
in	eighth	house,	161
in	eleventh	house,	191
in	fifth	house,	187
in	first	house,	148
in	fourth	house,	176–177
in	Gemini,	116
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	117
in	Libra,	117
natal,	47,	62,	76,	88,	101,	108,	114,	133
in	ninth	house,	171
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	119
in	retrograde,	16
in	Sagittarius,	118
in	Scorpio,	118
in	second	house,	156–157
in	seventh	house,	151
in	sixth	house,	196
in	Taurus,	116
in	tenth	house,	181
in	third	house,	166
transits	of,	11–12,	115–121,	210
in	twelfth	house,	201
in	Virgo,	117

Mercury
in	Aquarius,	107
areas	affected	by,	12,	105



in	Aries,	105
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	108–109
in	Cancer,	106
in	Capricorn,	107
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	105–107
in	eighth	house,	160
in	eleventh	house,	190
in	fifth	house,	186
in	first	house,	147–148
in	fourth	house,	176
in	Gemini,	106
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	106
in	Libra,	106
monthly	movement	of,	28
natal,	47,	61,	76,	87,	100,	108,	114,	119,	133
in	ninth	house,	170
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	107
in	retrograde,	16
in	Sagittarius,	107
in	Scorpio,	107
in	second	house,	156
in	seventh	house,	151
in	sixth	house,	196
in	Taurus,	105–106
in	tenth	house,	180
in	third	house,	166
transits	of,	11–12,	104–109
in	twelfth	house,	200
in	Virgo,	106

money,	155,	159
monthly	planner,	27–28
monthly	rebirth,	136
Moon
in	Aquarius,	128



areas	affected	by,	12,	123
in	Aries,	124
in	aspect	to	transitioning	planets,	129–130,	209–210
in	Cancer,	125
in	Capricorn,	127–128
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	124–128
daily	horoscopes	and	the,	25
eclipses,	136–139,	210,	214
in	eighth	house,	160
in	eleventh	house,	190
in	fifth	house,	186
in	first	house,	147
in	fourth	house,	176
in	Gemini,	125
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	126
in	Libra,	126–127
lunar	phases,	123–124
lunar	returns,	136–137
movement	of,	11
natal,	46,	60–61,	75,	87,	99,	108,	114,	119,	132,	209–210,	213–214
in	ninth	house,	170
orbs,	15
phases	of,	25,	27
in	Pisces,	128
in	Sagittarius,	127
in	Scorpio,	127
in	second	house,	156
in	seventh	house,	150
in	sixth	house,	195–196
in	Taurus,	125
in	tenth	house,	180
in	third	house,	166
transits	of,	122–130
in	twelfth	house,	200
in	Virgo,	126



void-of-course,	130

N
natal	ascendant
Jupiter	in	aspect	to,	49
Mars	in	aspect	to,	121
Neptune	in	aspect	to,	91
Pluto	in	aspect	to,	103
Saturn	in	aspect	to,	64
Uranus	in	aspect	to,	79

natal	chart.	See	birth	chart
natal	Midheaven
Jupiter	in	aspect	to,	49
Mars	in	aspect	to,	121
Neptune	in	aspect	to,	91
Pluto	in	aspect	to,	103
Saturn	in	aspect	to,	65
Uranus	in	aspect	to,	79

natal	planets	and	angles
Jupiter	in	aspect	to,	46–49
Mars	in	aspect	to,	119–121
Mercury	in	aspect	to,	108–109
Neptune	in	aspect	to,	86–91
Pluto	in	aspect	to,	98–103
Saturn	in	aspect	to,	60–65
Sun	in	aspect	to,	132–134
Uranus	in	aspect	to,	75–79
Venus	in	aspect	to,	114–115

Neptune
in	Aquarius,	85
areas	affected	by,	12,	81
in	Aries,	83
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	86–91
in	Cancer,	84
in	Capricorn,	85
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	83–86



in	eighth	house,	162–163
in	eleventh	house,	192
in	fifth	house,	188
in	first	house,	149
in	fourth	house,	178
in	Gemini,	83
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	84
in	Libra,	84
natal,	48,	63,	78,	82,	90,	102,	109,	115,	120,	134
in	ninth	house,	172
oppositions,	82
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	86
in	retrograde,	17
in	Sagittarius,	85
in	Scorpio,	85
in	second	house,	158
in	seventh	house,	152–153
sextile,	82
in	sixth	house,	198
squares,	82
in	Taurus,	83
in	tenth	house,	182
in	third	house,	168
transits	of,	12,	30,	80–91
trine,	82
in	twelfth	house,	202
in	Virgo,	84
yearly	movement	of,	29

New	Moon,	123,	136
ninth	house,	164,	169–173
North	Node
in	eighth	house,	163
in	eleventh	house,	193
in	fifth	house,	189



in	first	house,	149
in	fourth	house,	178
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
natal,	64,	78,	109,	115,	120,	134
in	ninth	house,	173
in	second	house,	158–159
in	seventh	house,	153
in	sixth	house,	198–199
in	tenth	house,	183
in	third	house,	169
in	twelfth	house,	203

O
oppositions,	13–14,	35
Jupiter,	39
Neptune,	82
Pluto,	98
Saturn,	53
Uranus,	69

orbs,	15
outer	planets,	12,	22,	30–31,	210,	214.	See	also	specific	planets

P
perception,	165
Pisces
Jupiter	in,	45–46
Mars	in,	119
Mercury	in,	107
Moon	in,	128
Neptune	in,	86
Pluto	in,	97
Saturn	in,	60
Uranus	in,	74
Venus	in,	113

Placidus	house	system,	142
planetary	cycles,	24–31



planetary	movement,	11.	See	also	transits	planetary	returns,	16
planets.	See	also	specific	planets
aspects	of,	13–15,	27,	34–35,	209–210,	213–214
birth	chart	houses	and,	13
fast-moving,	35
inner,	11–12,	22
interactions	of,	34
Moon	in	aspect	to	transitioning,	129–130
outer,	12,	22,	30–31,	210,	214
retrograde,	16–17
signs	of	the	zodiac	and,	12
slow-moving,	35
transiting	cycles	of,	15

Pluto
in	Aquarius,	96
areas	affected	by,	12,	93
in	Aries,	94
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	98–103
in	Cancer,	94
in	Capricorn,	96
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	93–97
in	eighth	house,	163
in	eleventh	house,	192
in	fifth	house,	188–189
in	first	house,	149
in	fourth	house,	178
in	Gemini,	94
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	95
in	Libra,	95
natal,	48,	64,	78,	90,	97–98,	102,	109,	115,	120,	134
in	ninth	house,	172
opposition,	98
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	97
in	retrograde,	16,	17



in	Sagittarius,	96
in	Scorpio,	95–96
in	second	house,	158
in	seventh	house,	153
sextiles,	97
in	sixth	house,	198
squares,	97–98
in	Taurus,	94
in	tenth	house,	182
in	third	house,	168
transits	of,	12,	30,	92–103
trine,	98
in	twelfth	house,	202
in	Virgo,	95
yearly	movement	of,	29

Q
quincunxes,	13–14,	35

R
retrogrades,	16–17,	29
returns,	16,	22
calculating,	136
Jupiter,	38,	210
lunar,	136–137
Saturn,	52
solar,	136–137
Uranus,	69

S
Sagittarius
Jupiter	in,	44
Mars	in,	118
Mercury	in,	107
Moon	in,	127
Neptune	in,	85



Pluto	in,	96
Saturn	in,	58
Uranus	in,	73
Venus	in,	113

Saturn
in	Aquarius,	59
areas	affected	by,	12,	51
in	Aries,	54
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	60–65
in	Cancer,	55
in	Capricorn,	59
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	53–60
in	eighth	house,	162
in	eleventh	house,	191
in	fifth	house,	187
in	first	house,	148–149
in	fourth	house,	177
in	Gemini,	55
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	56
in	Libra,	57
natal,	48,	62,	77,	89,	101–102,	109,	114,	120,	133
in	ninth	house,	171
opposition,	53
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	60
in	retrograde,	17
return,	52
in	Sagittarius,	58
in	Scorpio,	57–58
in	second	house,	157
in	seventh	house,	152
in	sixth	house,	197
squares,	53
in	Taurus,	54
in	tenth	house,	181



in	third	house,	167
transits	of,	12,	30,	50–65
in	twelfth	house,	201
Uranus	in,	73
in	Virgo,	56
yearly	movement	of,	29

Scorpio
Jupiter	in,	43–44
Mars	in,	118
Mercury	in,	107
Moon	in,	127
Neptune	in,	85
Pluto	in,	95–96
Saturn	in,	57–58
Uranus	in,	72–73
Venus	in,	112

seasons,	135–136
second	house,	154–159
self-defeating	behavior,	199
selfhood,	146–147
seventh	house,	150–153
sextiles,	13–14,	34
Neptune,	82
Pluto,	97

sixth	house,	194–199
slow-moving	planets,	35
social	status,	179
solar	cycle,	135–136
solar	eclipses,	29,	136–139
Solar	House	system,	142
solar	returns,	16,	136–137
solstice
summer,	136
winter,	135

South	Node,	149,	153,	159,	163,	169,	173,	178,	183,	189,	193,	198–199,	203
spring	equinox,	135



squares,	13–14,	34
Jupiter,	38–39
Neptune,	82
Pluto,	97–98
Saturn,	53
Uranus,	68–69

summer	solstice,	136
Sun,	11
annual	cycle	of,	28
areas	affected	by,	12,	25,	131
in	aspect	to	natal	planets,	132–134
in	aspect	to	transitioning	planets,	209–210
cycle	through	zodiac,	12
daily	horoscopes	and	the,	24,	25–26
daily	motion	of,	25–26
eclipses,	29,	136–139
in	eighth	house,	160
in	eleventh	house,	190
in	fifth	house,	185–186
in	first	house,	147
in	fourth	house,	175–176
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
monthly	movement	of,	27
natal,	46,	60–61,	75,	86–87,	99,	108,	114,	119,	132,	209–210,	213–214
in	ninth	house,	169–170
orbs,	15
seasons	and,	135–136
in	second	house,	155–156
in	seventh	house,	150
in	sixth	house,	195
solar	returns,	136–137
in	tenth	house,	179
in	third	house,	165
transits	of,	131–136
in	twelfth	house,	199–200

Swiss	ephemeris,	145



T
Taurus
Jupiter	in,	40
Mars	in,	116
Mercury	in,	105–106
Moon	in,	125
Neptune	in,	83
Pluto	in,	94
Saturn	in,	54
Uranus	in,	70
Venus	in,	111

tenth	house,	174,	179–183
third	house,	164–169
transiting	cycles,	15
transits
in	action,	204–215
aspect	and,	13–15,	34–35
birth	chart	houses	and,	13
defined,	11
effects	of,	21
finding	your,	17–20
in	houses,	142–203
of	Jupiter,	36–49
of	Mars,	115–121,	210
of	Mercury,	104–109
of	Moon,	122–130
most	important,	35
of	Neptune,	80–91
overview	of,	10–23
of	Pluto,	92–103
of	Saturn,	50–65
signs	of	the	zodiac	and,	12
of	Sun,	131–136
of	Uranus,	66–79
of	Venus,	110–115
workings	of,	34



trines,	13–14,	35
Neptune,	82
Pluto,	98

twelfth	house,	194,	199–203

U
Uranus
in	Aquarius,	74
areas	affected	by,	12,	67–68
in	Aries,	70
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	75–79
in	Cancer,	71
in	Capricorn,	73
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	70–74
in	eighth	house,	162
in	eleventh	house,	192
in	fifth	house,	188
in	first	house,	149
in	fourth	house,	177
in	Gemini,	71
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	71
in	Libra,	72
natal,	48,	63,	77,	89–90,	102,	109,	114,	120,	134
in	ninth	house,	172
opposition,	69
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	74
in	retrograde,	17
return,	69
in	Sagittarius,	73
in	Scorpio,	72–73
in	second	house,	157–158
in	seventh	house,	152
in	sixth	house,	197–198
squares,	68–69



in	Taurus,	70
in	tenth	house,	181–182
in	third	house,	167
transits	of,	12,	30,	66–79
in	twelfth	house,	202
in	Virgo,	72
yearly	movement	of,	29

V
Venus
in	Aquarius,	113
areas	affected	by,	12,	110
in	Aries,	111
in	aspect	to	natal	planets	and	angles,	114–115
in	Cancer,	111
in	Capricorn,	113
cycle	through	zodiac,	12,	111–113
in	eighth	house,	160–161
in	eleventh	house,	190–191
in	fifth	house,	186
in	first	house,	148
in	fourth	house,	176
in	Gemini,	111
length	of	time	in	a	house,	143
in	Leo,	112
in	Libra,	112
monthly	movement	of,	28
natal,	47,	61–62,	76,	87–88,	100,	108,	114,	120,	133
in	ninth	house,	170
orbs,	15
in	Pisces,	113
in	retrograde,	16
in	Sagittarius,	113
in	Scorpio,	112
in	second	house,	156
in	seventh	house,	151



in	sixth	house,	196
in	Taurus,	111
in	tenth	house,	180
in	third	house,	166
transits	of,	11–12,	110–115
in	twelfth	house,	200
in	Virgo,	112

Virgo
Jupiter	in,	42
Mars	in,	117
Mercury	in,	106
Moon	in,	126
Neptune	in,	84
Pluto	in,	95
Saturn	in,	56
Uranus	in,	72
Venus	in,	112

void-of-course	(VOC)	Moon,	130

W
Whole	Sign	system,	142
winter	solstice,	135

Y
yearly	planner,	28–30

Z
zodiac	signs,	12.	See	also	specific	signs



DON’T	MISS	THESE	OTHER	BOOKS!

What	Your	Birthday	Reveals	about	You
Phyllis	Vega

ISBN:	978-1-59233-170-3



The	Ultimate	Guide	to	Tarot
Liz	Dean

ISBN:	978-1-59233-657-9



Secrets	of	the	Universe	in	100	Symbols
Sarah	Bartlett

ISBN:	978-1-59233-676-0



Spellcraft	for	a	Magical	Year
Sarah	Bartlett

ISBN:	978-1-59233-680-7



The	Complete	Illustrated	Encyclopedia	of	Magical	Plants,	Revised
Susan	Gregg

ISBN:	978-1-59233-583-1



Encyclopedia	of	Crystals,	Revised	and	Expanded
Judy	Hall

ISBN:	978-1-59233-582-4



To	Mom	and	Dad,
from	your	littlest	Saturn	transit.