Astrology 


Marriage Counselling 


Manik Chand Jain 


Revised & Edited 
by 
O.P. Verma 


PREFACE 


Man has need of creature comforts which only a mate can 
adequately provide. He has need of human companionship, 
human understanding and emotional reciprocity — these being 
also things— that only a mate can adequately provide. Man has 
sexual desire prompting him to effect the procreation. Thus man 
seeks his mate—a woman-—and focuses upon her for release of 
his (and her) emotional energies which are generated by their 
respective central nervous systems. Thus the woman becomes 
the object of the man's love and affection, and he of her's, unless 
through perversion of some form or another, such mutual love 
and affection change into hate and aversion. However, marriage 
is a great human institution which normally for its survival 
depends on man's emotional energies, and which provides full 
opportunity for the satisfaction of their joint emotional needs, 
provided the mating is well balanced and reciprocative on the 
three planes of being : physical, intellectual and spiritual. For 
one who is married but still pursues club life or goes pub 
crawling, the time so consumed will be at the expense of his 
wife and children who will not only lack the companionship to 
which they are entitled, but will be deprived of benefits of that 
part of family's funds which he is misapplying. Astrologers 
opine that their such inherited traits are due to special 
configurations of the Sun, the Moon and planets and _ star- 
groups of the zodiac, under which an individual is born. 


Of all life's events, the most important is the marriage. For 
this major event implies a total revolution in two lives : not 
only material but also psychological and moral. It alters the 
entire basis of prior social adjustment. Hence the effects can be 
unprecedented in their scope. 


For the above reasons, therefore, it behaves for every young 
couple approaching matrimony to study well beforehand the 
full implications of the problems which married life will 
introduce and to become acquainted as well with the 
characteristics of the prospective spouse. 


It is in order to satisfy at least some part of the need for 
guidance that I have decided to write this book. Because to what 
other source may the young man or woman turn for guidance? 
Great experience of the ways of life as well as considerable 
knowledge of psychological values are called for in the mentor 
who proposes to offer guidance. Such experience, of course, 
cannot be with the young man or woman, because none of them 
can ever gain it until he or she has ruined his or her life through 
the process. 


It cannot be too strongly stressed that the varying moods 
and characteristics of individuals are purely the products of 
their respective psychological states. To speak of one person as 
being of a passionate temperament, and the other as being of a 
frigid temperament, is merely to describe in relative terms of 
their respective psychological reactions towards the idea of sex 
relationship. 


Apart from the planetary configuration, there is no means 
of ascertaining, the absolute capacity of sexual impulse, and 
relative strengths of mutual attraction between the two sexes 
by any other standard of comparison. The happiness of any 
married pair will necessarily depend upon the alignment of their 
respective temperaments in very great measure, and because 
any reactive clashes of temperament are visibly productive of 
unhappiness and unsettled feelings in both parties; we have at 
least in Astrology means for assessing such probabilities before 
hand. 


It is on this basis that Horoscopic Astrology has been 
founded and a cardinal principle of the science was elicited. It 
is this principle which I propose to discuss in following pages 
in order to enable my readers to have adequate understanding 
of their better halves. To ensure success, marry by the STARS. 


Yours for a successful and happy marriage. 
— Manik Chand Jain 


CONTENTS 


Chapter 


1. 


Se =| = ee 
wae WN Re © 


— 
oy 


Se ON: de SS 


INTRODUCTION 

Man and His Mate 
Psychology...Sex...Astrology 
Romance...Planets and You 

How to Improve Your Love Life 

The Stars Offer You A Happy Marriage 
What Makes Two People "Click" ? 
Retrograde Venus and Mars 

Hints for Would-be Brides 

Memo to Marriage-minded Males 


. For Brides Only 


For Bridegrooms Only 

Marriage is A Co-operative Affair 
Can Success in Marriage be Foretold ? 
How Astrology can Help You Avoid 
Marital Pitfalls ? 


Surmounting Adverse Marriage Aspects .. 


Pages 


116 
126 


.. 144 
154 


17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21, 
22, 


Should I Get A Divorce ? 

Was that Divorce Necessary ? 
Can Your Wife Manage Money ? 
How Thrifty is Your Wife ? 
Wives in the Pay Line 

Marriage After Fifty 


..185 


170 
180 


192 
198 
206 


How to Use the Book 


A few instructions are necessary for the readers about the 
use of the book. We shall start with the aspects used in this 
book. 

1. Sextile~A sextile aspect is formed when the planets 
are 60° apart, its influence is harmonious. 


2. Square—A square aspect is exact when the planets are 
90° apart. Its influence is inimical, adverse and obstructing. 


3. Trine—A trine aspect is exact when the planets are 120° 
apart. Its influence is harmonious and conducive. 


4. Quincunx or Inconjunct—It is formed when the planets 
are 150° apart. It is slightly adverse, indifferent, indecisive 
and irritating. 

5. Opposition—It is complete when the planets are 180° 
apart. Its influence is separative, extreme, opposed, destructive 
and sometimes complementary. 


6. Conjunction—Itis complete when two or more planets 
are at the same longitude. It is conjunction with the house 
when a planet is on the cuspal degree of the house. Its effect 
is good or adverse according to the nature of the planets or 
sign and planets involved. 

7.P. Parallels —It is formed when the planets are at equal 


distance from the celestial equator north or south or one planet 
is north and the other south of it. A parallel of declination has 


10 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


the same effect as conjunction. An orb of one degree 1s allowed 
for this aspect. The declination of planets are to be found in 
the Ephemeris. 


Strengthwise conjunction and parallel acquire the first 
place, then opposition, then trine, then square, then sextile 
and in the last place is quincunx. 


Planetary orbs are the surrounding circles of influence, 
the luminaries, that is, the Sun and the Moon are allowed an 
orb of 12°, whether applying or separating. Other planets are 
allowed an orb of 8° whether applying or separating. This is 
to say if Mars is at 18° Scorpio and the Sun is at 6° Scorpio, the 
orb of influence has begun and it is an applying conjunction 
because the Sun is the faster moving of the two. 


Similarly if Mars is at 18° Scorpio and the Sun is at 30° 
Scorpio, the aspect is just to cease and is a separating aspect. 
Applying aspects are more powerful than the separating ones. 
The aspect is strongest when the planets are exactly at the 
same degree. 


It is said in Astrology that it is better to have adverse 
aspects than to have none. Adverse aspects are considered 
better by some of the practitioners as they at least produce 
and create opportunities and challenges before the native to 
have a go. It is when the discretion and mental powers of the 
individual are tested. Actually, the adverse aspects are the 
real test of the evolution level of an individual. 


An individual having trines and sextiles is an easy going 
individual who attains most of the things in his life by riding 
over the horse of luck. Usually he shuns taking any risks unlike 
an individual having adverse aspects. 


In Hindu or Vedic Astrology the two celebrated malefics 
Mars and Saturn are assigned additionally the 4th, 8th house 
and the 3rd, 10th house aspects besides the normal 7th house 
aspect. The greatest benefic Jupiter is also assigned 5th and 
9th house aspects along with normal 7th house aspect. The 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 11 


other minor aspects of western Astrology are also included 
in Vedic Astrology, but rarely used in practice due to their 
very weak influence. 


Next important and vital subject is of progressions. 
Progressions are the progress of the planets and houses over 
the natal positions of the planets and houses. One day's 
movement of planets and houses is considered for one year's 
results. Suppose a native is now of 20 years entering his 21st 
year, then we cast a horoscope for his time of birth on the 
20th day from his birth. We place this horoscope over the natal 
horoscope and note the aspects over natal and progressed 
elements and predict the good or bad to occur to him in his 
21st year. Thus after birth, the 2nd days chart shows the events 
to happen in his 2nd year after birth, the 3rd day's, the events 
to happen in the 3rd year after birth and so on. Aspects among 
progressed planets are not as important as when these aspects 
of progressed planets are formed with the natal placements 
and do promise an event. These progressions are termed 
secondary directions in western Astrology. 


Next in order come the transits. The transits are the 
ephemeral motion of planets in the current year as shown by 
the Ephemeris over some important places in the natal or the 
progressed chart. 


Ina progressed chart the effect of a transit over the degree 
of Mid Heaven (X house), Ascendant or any planet is more 
impetuous than an aspect thereto. 


Ina natal chart, transits either by conjunctions or by aspects 
are noticeable. While assessing transits, the declinations of 
the transiting planet should never be over looked, for when it 
compares with the declination of any planet or cusp in the 
horoscope it constitutes a parallel and has an effect like a 
conjunction. 


Regarding the orbs of influence in progressions and 
transits, the classical authors allow 1° orb for both. However, 


12 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


some of the recent authors are of the opinion that the effect of 
a transit begins about eight degrees prior to exact major 
aspects, and about four degrees prior to exact minor aspects. 
The effect of transit expires quickly after culmination of aspect. 


Ifa progressed or directional aspect is due to operate, the 
transit of a planet over the place of directional aspect may 
excite it into action prematurely. 


It would be in the interest of our elementary readers to 
discuss the chief characteristics of the signs and planets in the 
zodiac. 

Aries — It signifies self assertion, courageand will to be. It 
represents unqualified life and is vigorous and bold regardless 
of consequences. It believes in ignoring obstacles and fighting 
down opposition. It is extremely positive towards the 
surroundings and conditions. 


Taurus —It signifies practicality and awareness of nature 
is the absolute reality for him, which can only be utilized but 
cannot be ignored. It believes in the possessions of material 
kind, such as food, clothes and shelter and content and simple 
enjoyment. It is reserved, intense and conservative. 


Gemini— It signifies awareness of isolated facts and matter 
of factness. It is the common sign having both the qualities of 
out going Aries a movable sign and the fixed signs which 
usually are related to practicalities of life. Though Gemini is 
selfish yet adaptable. 


Cancer—lIt signifies self preservation and prudence in 
action. It is of movable triplicity and watery quadruplicity. It 
represents physical sensations which are the results of 
stimulation from the external world. It is also imaginative and 
moody. 

Leo—lIt signifies self manifestation, strength of soul and 
will to augment being. It is fixed as well as fiery. It represents 
pleasure, enterprise and procreation. It isa warm hearted sign 
and if afflicted represents conceit and vain glory. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 13 


Virgo—It signifies mental interest in nature, its utilisation 
and manipulation in detail. It analyses and seeks to 
understand the natural processes and tries to use them for 
the safety and improvement of life. It is a steady worker. 


Libra—It signifies comparison of facts and the power to 
collate, choose and adjust. It believes in the principle of 
adaptation and compromise even at the loss of its own 
individuality. It shows maladjustment, disharmony and 
quarrels under afflictions. 


Scorpio—It signifies self discipline and strength to endure. 
It is more positive in protective action than Cancer and Pisces. 
It can take up arms to defend himself and others; but not as 
aggressively as the other sign of Mars, Aries. It is explosive to 
any kind of continuous repression. 


Sagittarius ~It signifies self development, hope and will 
to improve being. It represents necessity to survival and 
variety and improvement in species. It believes in the gradual 
suppression of the old and hope for the new improved version 
be it religion or philosophy or any other aspect of life. 


Capricorn — It signifies ambition and desire to dominate and 
organize. Like Virgo it deals in understanding and analysing 
nature and thus get the more power to dominate and organize. 
Due to this quality of sign Mars is exalted here. It believes in the 
concrete practicality and achievements in life. 


Aquarius —It signifies love of mankind, animal and 
nature. It perceives natural facts as universal laws. It believes 
in the systematized knowledge and final organisation into 
science. It rules friends and allies, ability to attract them and 
organised information and scientific use of mental 
possessions. 

Pisces —It signifies mental and emotional adaptation, 
resignation and self abnegation. It represents the strong 
instinct to self preservation. It can be timid, cautious and 
suspicious. 


14 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Basic Principles of planets 


Sun is the channel for active and creative energy and it 
accentuates the potentialities of the sign occupied. 


Moon represents those aspects of human nature which 
are dependent of automatic responses. The Moon represents 
the tendency to go living and behaving in a manner one is 
accustomed to. She has a great deal to do with every-day 
affairs, family and domestic matters. 


Mercury represents mental attitudes, intelligence and 
ability to think and communicate. He is full of self confidence 
in Aries, Leo and Sagittarius, sometimes ego- centric too. He 
is concerned with matters of practical value in Taurus, Virgo 
and Capricorn and the individual is excessively materialistic. 
He is concerned with his own intellectual pursuit in Gemini, 
Libra and Aquarius. He is coloured with emotional factors in 
Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. 


Venus is the key to romantic, artistic and social activities. 
She actively seeks romantic and social interaction in Aries, 
Leo and Sagittarius. She is practical and sensuous in romantic, 
artistic and social interactions. While in Taurus, Virgo and 
Capricorn she has strong sense of feelings and psychology of 
others in Gemini, Libra and Aquarius. She is emotional in 
romantic, artistic and social activities when in Cancer, Scorpio 
and Pisces. 


Mars is the key to desire and action for survival. He 
expresses energy and natural leadership qualities in Aries, 
Leo and Sagittarius to Satisfy his desire. He does not take 
action without material benefits when posited in Taurus, 
Virgo and Capricorn. He gets into action and desires fulfilled 
through an intellectual debate if in Gemini, Libra or Aquarius. 
He is motivated into action with a desire for compassion, love 
and empathy for others if in the sign Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces. 

Jupiter is the key to social and cultural values. He becomes 
a leader in social and cultural affairs, if in Aries Leo or 
Sagittarius. He has a practical approach to social and cultural 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 15 


affairs, if in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn. He takes an 
intellectual approach to social and cultural affairs, if in Gemini, 
Libra or Aquarius. He has an emotional approach towards 
social and cultural affairs, if in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces. 


Saturn is key to the capacity to discipline and patience for 
long range goals. He shows discipline and patience in natural 
qualities of leadership if in Aries, Leo or Sagittarius. He shows 
discipline and patience to achieve excellent practical 
achievements if in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn. He shows 
discipline and patience in abstract concepts based on 
intellectual ability if in Gemini, Libra or Aquarius. He shows 
discipline and patience in depth of feelings if in Cancer, 
Scorpio or Pisces. 


Uranus is the key to freedom of thoughts, expression and 
action. He is strong willed and independent in action and 
expression if in Aries, Leo and Sagittarius. He displays 
independence of thoughts and action in financial, business or 
professional matters if in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn. He is 
free and independent in establishing new friendships, group 
associations at intellectual gatherings if in Gemini, Libra or 
Aquarius. He shows strong intuitive understanding at the 
emotional level if in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces. 


Neptune is the key to subconscious mind and imagination. 
He expresses intuitive and imaginative excellence while 
leading if in Aries, Leo or Sagittarius. He applies his 
subconscious approach and intuitive ability in solving 
practical problems if in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn. He 
displays his subconscious approach and imagination in 
intellectual pursuits if in Gemini, Libra or Aquarius. He can 
subconsciously associate himself with others, feelings and 
emotions if in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces. 


Pluto—Its action is such as to cause hidden and 
subterranean states to break forth or errupt like earthquakes 
or volcanos, bringing about a climax in life with much 
disturbance and upheaval followed by calmer ad more 
wholesome condition. It operates mostly on emotional level. 


INTRODUCTION 


It is becoming quite common these days when the trouble 
develops between husband and wife to consult a marriage 
counsellor. Having studied and practised Astrology for more 
than twenty five years, I have never got to the point where I 
think domestic troubles are funny. Too many domestic 
problems end in tragedy. If an average Astrologer could read 
a horoscope, he would not think them funny either. 


Many write to me telling that they are about to commit 
suicide and want to hear from me at once. Believe it—they 
often do so. One woman wrote to me that her husband must 
be having another woman as he was so cold towards her and 
that she did not want to live. In her husband's horoscope, I 
found the evidence of a gradual growing impotency. I 
explained to her what was happening to her husband. 


Another woman wrote to me that she thought that there 
must be something wrong with her, as her husband was no 
longer interested in her. He was also born as sex deviate. Why 
she, after five years of marriage, had just begun to realise ? 
What she had married was also a mystery to me. She had the 
horoscope of a normal woman. But perhaps she, like a lot of 
wives, did not admit it. This must be so because I have had 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 17 


clients who told me every other fault their husbands had, but 
held back the fact that they had married a sex deviate. The 
horoscope shows this trait positively if the Astrologer knows 
to read a horoscope. 


One wife wrote to me recently seeking my advice about 
getting a divorce. The woman mentioned almost all the bad 
traits a man could have, except the main trouble. I told her 
that she had married a sex deviate. She admitted, that her 
husband had molested their young daughter and was arrested 
for molesting other young girls and boys too. I told her that 
psychiatry had until that time not found a cure for sex 
deviation. She must as well get that divorce quickly. This 
man's horoscope had the definite marks of the sex deviate. 
But the wife had lived with this man for fifteen years. 


Here is another letter from a young woman stating, "I have 
been keeping company with a very nice young man whom I 


° 


am very fond of for the last six months. But he never mentions 
marriage. Will he propose ? The man's chart was good." She 
was born when the Moon was in 2°-14’ Capricorn in trine to 
Uranus in the tenth squaring ascendant. 


On looking up the aspects from a solar map, I was 
astounded at what I saw. Everything was adverse except that 
trine between the Moon and Uranus. Mars was conjunct the 
Sun in the eleventh, square Saturn in the eighth house. Mars 
was opposite Jupiter. The Sun was also opposite Jupiter. Mars 
was also square Neptune in the second (remember this 


18 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


square). In fact, everything was opposite or square the Moon. 

My answer to her was : "Your chart shows a highly 
neurotic personality, and perhaps that is why your boy friend 
does not want to discuss marriage. Have not you been 
married, perhaps more than once ? Why not tell me the whole 
story ?" 

Her second letter tells the whole sordid story. She was 
sent to a home for children when four years old and stayed 
there until she was about eleven years old. Then she was put 
on a farm, where she then worked in the field and was not 
allowed to wear girl's clothes. When she was fourteen, her 
mother remarried and she went along with her mother. 


At eighteen, she became a "fatty," weighing 180 plus 
pounds. She then met a man; things went along just until she 
became pregnant and the man ran away. Then she met another 
man who wanted to marry her although he knew of her 
condition at the time. He lured her and said that he loved 
children and her. He set the wedding date; but the night before 
the wedding, he called her up and told her that whole thing 
was off. She went to a hospital and had her baby. The baby 
died and the man came back and asked to marry her and 
apologised for running away the night before the scheduled 
wedding. So she married him and lived happily for about 
four months, when suddenly the police picked him up to be 
sent to prison. 


"I promised to wait for him but I met another man. I was 
lonely," she said. She just lived with this other man for about 
a year and used his name. Then he, too, ditched her and she 
started on the road to prostitution. She says she was "a good- 
time girl". Finally, she met another man who drank a lot. Every 
time he was drunk, he proposed to her and then would back 
out when he became sober. She gave him the air and then she 
met the man she now wants to marry. But he will not 
propose." 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 19 


Notice, this woman was only 23 then and had gone 
through all these terrible experiences ! I forgot to say that 
Venus was square Neptune, (False Love). Those men did not 
love her at all. They just used her! Three planets in her house 
of friends are afflicted, and her Venus is square Neptune. The 
ruler of her fifth house is in the fifth in opposition to the Sun 
and Mars and square Saturn. 


Wondering what kept her going, I turned to the parallels 
on her day of birth and found Sun parallel Mars, Jupiter 
parallel Mars, Sun parallel Jupiterand Venus parallel Jupiter. 
The only good aspect in her chart is Uranus trine to the Moon. 


The squares of the Sun, Saturn and Mars, Saturn (Saturn 
in the 8th, house of death; the Sun and Mars in the 11th, the 
house of friends) portend a possible violent death at the hands 
of someone she thinks is a friend. It could also mean suicide, 
with the ruler of the ascendant square 8th house Saturn. 


In 1959, progressed Venus and the progressed Sun were 
conjunct in the 11th; so things were bright temporarily. But 
progressed Mars was also opposite the Moon (fifth to seventh), 
so another conflict was in operation. The progressed Moon 
in Scorpio was opposite Uranus but will soon pass. The 
transiting Uranus was hanging around her ascendant, while 
the transiting Neptune was soon to pass in opposition to 
Uranus. What kind of karma had built this young woman her 
herself. What she was. 


Reading between the lines of this woman's last letter, I 
could sense a rapidly developing guilt complex which will 
reach a climax in four years, when Mercury comes in square 
to Saturn. The best thing this young woman could do would 
be to read religious literature. Astrology teaches tolerance. 


The advantage which an Astrologer has over any other 
marriage counsellor lies in the fact that he does not have to 
arrive at conclusions merely on the statement of one of the 
parties involved; he has before him the charts of both and can 


20 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


tell who is at fault. He can tell either the trouble is temporary 
or likely to continue indefinitely. He does not have to give 
some flippant answer to his clients. 


Practically in all marriage problems, the emotions are 
involved; and there is nothing better than the horoscope to 
gauge the emotions. In triangular cases, the Astrologer has 
the advantage again because it is a lot easier to get the birth 
date of the "other man or woman" than to get that person to 
questioning. 

Since marriage troubles usually involve very intimate 
details, some wives are reluctant to tell all; but the horoscope 
will show in most cases what the husband does to cause 
trouble. In some cases, even though the wife is making the 
complaint, but she herself is the cause of the trouble. 
Sometimes the horoscope of the husband is good one while 
the wife's is not. So after coming across thousands of cases I 
am confident that Astrology is the best form of marriage 
counselling —or any counselling which deals with emotional 
troubles. 


Marriage based solely on the fact that the Sun-signs of 
both the parties are either sextile or trine has no basis in fact 
or experience. I have seen too many of that kind go on the 
matrimonial rocks. I have seen many instances where the Sun- 
signs were in square but resulted in happy marriages. (Take, 
for instance, Gemini and Virgo. Both these are Mercury's 
signs). A Cancer woman could not very well endure a man 
with a Virgo Sun who continually criticised her. 


Considering that marriage is the most difficult partnership 
emotionally, physically as well as socially, the delineation of 
the marrying partner's horoscope is of prime importance — 
before, marriage not after. 


2] 


Man and His Mate 


Contrasts are highly necessary in life, for without contrasts 
life will be boring and unenjoyable. 


The Principle of contrasts is applicable likewise to man 
and his mate. For it is a well known fact that the more 
contrasting the characters of the wedded pair, the more 
interesting and unusual will be their marriage. 


The sameness of characteristics in a couple presents an 
unappetising guise that fails to awaken keen interest in 
anything other than the differences attributable to sex. But at 
the same time violent contrasts are also not recommendable 
feature. Appreciation of nature insists upon "moderation in all 
things." For hard highlights and heavy shadows can make 
appearances grotesque and ugly. Thus the softer the contrasts, 
the better, so long as such contrasts ARF present. 


The three mesmeric factors to enter into the courtship 
phase are charm, enchantment, and sex-appeal, all three of 
which are needed for a successfully weaving the spell of love. 

Charm presents itself in manifold guises to captivate the 
senses of the opposite sex. Allure, glamour, art, artifice style 
and personality are configurations of charm. Beauty of face, 


22 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


figure and form. A "peach and cream" complexion. The 
"crowning glory" of a woman's hair in its manifold colourings 
: platinum, golden, red, chestnut, black, etc. The tones and 
melodies of voices. 


Enchantment is rendered by provision of the right setting, 
whether it be nature's own landscapes in the sitting Sun or 
Moonlight,, or whether it be an atmospheric location replete 
with "soft lights and sweet music." For enchantment may be 
contrived, if Nature does not provide her own original 
settings. But Nature often does conspire to produce together 
the Time, the Place, and the Girl —even without collusion. 


Sex-appeal is the seductive element that is added to the 
witch's brew of the courtship portion. For it is this ingredient 
that contrives to create the seductiveness that often has such 
a heady effect on the imagination of each of the lovers. For 
sex-appeal can wreck its most powerful effects when it forms 
part of the personality in a mixture of invitation and mystery 
enshrouding unraveled delights. All this is probably contained 
in the aura of magnetic field of the individual That is the field 
in which his (or her) personal magnetism builds up its lines 
of force. A field which may be enormously attractive to a few 
special individuals who contact it in life, but which may be 
equally repellent to certain other types. 


For those whose souls and senses are so dulled that charm, 
sex-appeal and enchantment cast no spell over them, the mental 
aspects of utility considerations such as dowry, influence, 
position etc. may become the major ingredient of the 
courtship. 


Marriage is, of course, a supremely important business 
far more important than many couples, in their unwisdom, 
are apt to realise. For to be charmed and in love with each 
other is no guarantee of the durability of a marriage. For love 
is all too often a lure which baits a trap. It is all too easy fora 
person in love to blind himself or herself to other realities. It 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 23 


is all too easy to disarm caution by adopting the naive 
assumption that : "Jove will conquer all." It is all too easy to 
forget the economics of marriage and dismissing all 
consideration of where the money is to come from. 


In many instances one of the lovers may be fully aware of 
the other's shortcomings : she is too extravagant and a bad 
manager; he is a compulsive gambler and is too fond of drink; 
yet each persuades himself that he can correct the other's 
weaknesses or mould the other's character to agree with an 
ideal concept. But of course such an idea is a pure delusion 
and is totally unrealistic. It is not possible to transform another 
person's personality to conform to a pattern dreamed up. It 
may be that the other person concerned may agree to 
cooperate. But the result will be a perpetual strain of a kind 
that will not be tolerated for long. A person just cannot be 
what he is not; and in no time at all that person will relapse, 
to adopt a type of behaviour more consonant with his own 
nature. 


One cannot transform a lethargic person into an energetic 
one. One cannot fire with ambition an unambitious person. 
One cannot make an intellectual out of a person who 1s 
inherently disinclined to study. One cannot change the nature 
of a female butterfly, nor correct the roving eye of the habitual 
philanderer. Conclusively : one cannot make a silk purse out of a 
sow's ear! 


Things of this kind ought to be understood by all. Yet they 
are persistently ignored by young people who imagine 
themselves to be in love rather it is not love, but a kind of 
sensual gratification generated from progressions or some 
strong transits. Unfortunately such young folk usually begin 
to glimpse the truth only when it is too late. Wisdom could 
dictate a better choice, but in the early stages of life one's 
experiences of both people and affairs is slight and the 
aggregate gain in wisdom is slighter still. Therefore, unless 


24 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


young couples are given some kind of instruction or advice, 
it will be a matter of pure luck as to whether they find 
themselves ideally mated, or have been caught in one of the 
innumerable tender traps. 


For a marriage to turn out a complete success, the ideal 
for a young couple should be to strive for harmony on the 
three planes of being : physical, mental and spiritual. 


On the physical plane, it is desirable for the couple to 
accord in weight of energies. For nothing can be more 
frustrating and discouraging to an energetic person who wants 
to hike, dance, participate in sports, climb mountains, etc., 
than to be tied to a lethargic, tired or listless partner incapable 
of responding to his energetic moods. Nor can there be 
anything more exhausting to a person who likes to take life 
easily and do things in her own time and at leisure, than the 
obligation to keep pace with an exacting partner who is 
intolerant of any form of slowing down. 


Also on the physical plane, need for a harmonious sex 
adjustment technique is a much more important requirement 
than the average couple appear to realise. For in sexual 
relations it is all too easy to generate or acquire a power 
complex that can develop either a sadistic or a masochistic 
trend. Many important psychological factors are found to 
enter into gratification of the sexual appetite, and it is 
necessary to take account of these if it is hoped to achieve a 
harmonious sex-adjustment, and avoid the neuroticism that 
so frequently develops from the wear and tear upon the nerves 
when there are repeated physical and emotional frustrations. 


To ensure successful reciprocity on the physical plane, it 
is desirable that the emotional impulses of a married couple 
should match. The moods of the moment may be promulgated 
by the desires, and a longer time may be needed by one partner 
than the other for desire to awaken — which is why courtship 
and loveplay are excellent artifices for adjusting the moods 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 25 


and for enticing the desired response. In fact, failure to adjust 
the moods is often directly responsible for ultimate frigidity, 
or even deeper-seated repugnance and aversion. 


Mental adjustments between married couples are no less 
important than the physical adjustments. Intellectual 
equivalencies are of course desirable, but is probably less 
important than general agreement in regard to ideas which 
have to be mutually shared, in general interests, and in 
fundamentally important opinions. Differences of opinion 
there will always be between any two persons of average spirit 
and intelligence and such difference may bea spur rather than 
a deterrent to a harmonious liaison; but it can be quite 
otherwise should there be any basic or fundamental 
differences of opinion, especially when these concern 
philosophical or religious beliefs, or if they are involved with 
the upbringing of the children. It is therefore highly necessary 
to ascertain during the courtship period whether any such 
fundamental differences of opinion do exist, so that it may be 
determined whether or not they are so deeply rooted as to be 
incapable of being ironed out. For although it is possible for 
some couples to agree to differ in some things, the things can 
become horribly wearing when they are married. Marriage 
relies for joy of companionship upon a mutual sharing of the 
recreational hours; consequently maladjustments of a kind 
that can disturb mental and emotional equilibrium, such as 
fundamental differences of opinion, may readily prove 
detrimental to joint happiness. To agree to differ is to admit 
that communications have broken down between the couple. 
It can result in resentful silences and in unmitigated boredom 
which all too frequently can break out into violent antipathy. 


One cannot, of course, hope or expect to balance all moods 
the whole of the time. There are bound to be times when one 
wishes to read while the other is ripe for a discussion. 
However, the exercise of patience is a condition imposed on 
all alike by Mother Nature, and none can have things all his 


26 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


own way the whole of the time. Marriage exactly is a policy 
of 'give' as well as ‘take’, and it is idle as well as unutterably 
selfish to expect the partner to be the sole donor of the family! 
Some measure of self-sacrifice is required from both partners. 
To receive love, one is expected to give love. Love can never 
be a one side affair. It has to be reciprocative or it will rapidly 
fail to exist. 


Love is associated with the corresponding passions of 
admiration and joy. Love demands the recognition of virtues 
in partner, as well as forbearance and toleration of the failings 
or alleged shortcomings of the mate. Otherwise a lack of 
respect, or even contempt, may gain a foothold. In any case, 
any capacity for inducing an inferiority complex in one's 
partner is a very bad augury for the success of the marriage. 

Emotional adjustments are no less necessary than those 
on the physical and mental planes, and one should seek to 
achieve these in the form of synchronisatoin of the moods. 
For the feelings are keyed in with the emotional impulses. 
Indeed, it is the emotional mechanism which makes an artist 
to express motivated feelings in forms applicable to his 
selected art-medium or vehicle. Yet it is in the nature of the 
artist to conceal the mechanism by means of which he/she 
acts. Hence the implication : “the purpose ofart is to conceal 
art.” 


Among human beings, any incentive to conceal results is 
an urge to disguise the impelling emotion. Thus, when 
frustration is encountered, a variant mood is accordingly 
engendered. 


For example, when sexual desire is frustrated, the 
dominant sensory ideal uppermost in the mind of the 
frustrated one is that his or her partner does not love him 
(her) any more! Yet not for sake would the frustrated partner 
reveal the nature of this sensory thought to the other. Hence 
he either disguises the frustration in variant moods, or else 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 27 


represses it. If repressed, it will re-emerge later in yet another 
disguised form. But in any case the moods-variant will baffle 
the other partner who will be unable to link them to the real 
basic grievence. 


The emotional moods being keyed to the spiritual nature, 
any mal-adjustments can be baffling to an extreme. Hence 
the importance of ensuring that the basic religious tenets and 
beliefs ofa couple should be concordant. Because unless they 
are harmoniously and concordantly adjusted, disguised 
moods and antipathies are pretty sure to crop up in the course 
of time. 


We have noted that the original causation of a developing 
courtship was the attraction induced by the hypnotic effects 
of charm, sex-appeal and enchantment, —factors which 
contrive to convince a young couple in love. 


For their imaginations at this stage are limited exclusively 
to thoughts and ideas concerning themselves, their own 
happiness and seem unable to project into the future with a 
clear picture themselves surrounded by children and 
immersed in manifold problems which the coming of children 
will inevitably produce. But by concentrating exclusively upon 
notions of sensual gratification and anticipated happiness, 
they dismiss from their minds almost completely the factual 
purpose of marriage, which consists of the procreation and 
rearing of children within the family home which they have 
to plan and build. 


"When a man marries, his troubles begin." So the wise say 
and all this is perfectly understandable. Prior to the date of 
their wedding both the boy and the girl have been sheltered 
from the major responsibilities attached to full manhood and 
womanhood, for such responsibilities have been shouldered 
by their respective parents though young couple have been 
earning their own livings. But from the moment of their 
marriage they have to do their own family planning and must 


28 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


provide for their own needs plus the needs of children who 
arrive. They will have the duty of ironing out family 
differences, and have to be prepared for some of the 
responsibilities attached to parenthood. 


Marriage is not only the greatest human institution, it is 
the fulfilment of one of the greatest ends in life : the re- 
population of the world. Marriage is a cart which runs on 
two wheels —man and woman. Both man and woman have 
their own special role in civilisation and each one not 
considered inferior to the other woven into the sacred thread 
under the sanctity of social set up. But the so called equality 
concept among weamen to men has broken the ancient united 
family concept and has led to dissatisfaction and finally 
divorce. 


3) 


Psychology... Sex... Astrology! 


Although psychology is concerned a great deal with the 
problems arising from sexual repressions and perversions and 
modern astrology has very little to say about them. In this 
present century, Sigmund Freud and Dr. Kinsey, have been 
associated with investigations concerning the expression of 
one of man's primary instincts. Their scientific investigations 
have lifted the discussion of sexual problems into the realms 
of respectability and in the opinions of psychiatrists' also these 
have proved to be at the root of much of social maladjustment. 


Freud's famous theme Oedipus complex was based on 
his discovery of fundamental sexual urge present in a child 
from birth, as response to physical affection from his/her 
mother. If a mother showeres so much affection upon son 
that he becomes too dependent upon her, this, over strong 
attachment of a son for his mother could wreck his later 
emotional life. Psychiatrists say that this kind of fixation can 
be responsible for one of the most common departures from 
normal adult life, namely homosexuality and other 
innumerable variations in behaviour. 


When these variations become extreme in their deviation 
from the mean, or average human behaviour abnormal, and 


30 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


require psychiatric intervention. Since man 1s partly animal, 
partly spiritual being, the development of civilisation and 
spirituality have made the expressions of his primary instincts 
more difficult for him. This is particularly so with the sex 
instinct, therefore Freud contended that much of it must find 
a healthy outlet through sublimation. If instead of this it 
became repressed or deflected into unhealthy channels, as 
with the Oedipus complex, then neuroticism, or even 
antisocial behaviour, might result. 


Claudius Ptolemy, the father of Western Astrology from 
the second century analysed these deviations and called them 
as "diseases of the soul,”. He said, "it is general and needful to 
note and observe the positions of Mercury and the Moon 
relative to each other, to the angles, and to the planets whose 
nature it is to do injury." He qualifies "diseases" as "those 
extremes of character which either fall short of or exceed the 
mean." Insanity he describes as a perversion of the active part 
of the soul, while the perversion of the passive portion of the 
soul is to be seen in "excesses and deficiencies in matters of 
sex, male and female, as compared with what is natural." That 
these "diseases" of the "psyche" exist today told Dr. Kinsey’ 
and that they affect the whole personality, proposed Freud. 


Ptolemy analysed these aberrations and diseases in the 
2nd century A.D. within the Roman Empire. He thought that 
astrologically these cases could be analysed by observing the 
relationship of Mars and Venus to the Sun and the Moon, or 
by observing whether the planets were in masculine (lst to 
10th or 4th to 7th house) or inrest six ie. feminine sectors of 
the horoscope. Thus according to Ptolemy, planets indicative 
of the affectional nature should be masculine for men to 
behave normally, or feminine for women. 


Ptolemy thus presents several interesting points for 
investigation. To begin with, perversions are abnormalities 
of the character, not diseases of the body, and modern 
psychology confirms this. Second, every nativity contains both 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 31 


male and female elements in the symbols of male and female 
planets and signs, that forms a basis for judging the 
comparative virility of a male or feminity of a female 
horoscope. While this contention may be true, but not enough 
for there are many more characteristics of the horoscope which 
are not balanced sexually. For example for a 20th century 
astrologer the planets Neptune and Uranus seem to have a 
particular bearing on such deviations. 


TYPICAL DEVIATIONS : A careful investigation of a 
number of contemporary birth charts reveals that 
homosexuality or typical deviation, occurs when normal 
expression is inhibited or deflected, in the mind first, as 
represented by Mercury and the Moon, as well as in the 
normal rhythm of bodily or glandular functions, as 
represented by the Moon. There must also be a link between 
these and Mars, which is the sexual urge, the passionate 
impulses, as well as the adrenal glands, and with Venus, which 
represents the affections. Finally, either Saturn, Neptune or 
Uranus are involved, often all of them, and generally in 
affliction. This deviation is linked by many psychiatrists with 
the development of a mother fixation in childhood and by 
some with glandular disturbances, such as the continued over- 
activity of the thymus gland, which normaly ceases its 
functions, with puberty. In both these cases, a weak or afflicted 
Moon is an essential factor. Thus, the Moon in opposition or 
square to Saturn is frequent in cases of mother fixation. Often 
the Moon is heavily afflicted by Neptune, Uranus, Mercury 
and the Sun in nativities of sexual deviates. This is quite in 
accordance with the instability often found as a characteristic 
of the native. In the following Oscar Wilde's chart the Moon 
was closely square Mercury and Uranus and 150° from 
Neptune. 


A recent biography of the poet, Lord Byron, attributes his 
marital difficulties very largely to a homosexual streak. His 
chart shows Moon conjunct Uranus square Neptune. King 


32 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


James I of England, who, though married, was, suspected of 
a similar tendency, had Moon in sextile to Neptune, while 
Haarman, the homosexual murderer, also had Moon sextile 


Neptune. 
Pluto (R) 3°] Saturn 
ela Uranus (R) 16° 
(R) (R)16"| x ge 


Horoscope of 


Oscar Wilde 


Usually in cases of female homosexuality the native adopts 
a masculine role, and, in that case one would expect the 
masculine elements of the horoscope to predominate. In the 
chart above the ascend lord is afflictied by Neptune placed 
on the cusp of Xth house. Uranus is conjunct Venus and both 
squared by Mars, weak by sign and house. Pluto's affliction 
to Venus, Uranus and Mars also denotes forcefulness in sex 
matters and perversions. 


Homosexual 


Female 


Venus 12° 

Uranus 4* 

Jupiter 26° 
Mer 29° 


In female horoscopes it is also usual to find the Moon 
afflicted by Neptune, and indeed, to find the Moon afflicted 
in general far more than the Sun, which usually represents 
the opposite sex ina female chart. The chart of a Lesbian shows 
the Sun conjunct Venus, trine Mars and sextile Neptune, but 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 33 


the Moon conjoins Uranus and Mars, opposes Neptune, and 
squares Mercury; while another similar chart has the Sun in 
conjunction with Jupiter, though in quadrature to Saturn, but 
the Moon is in quadrature to Uranus, Mars, Neptune and 
Mercury. 


Not only is the Moon afflicted in the horoscopes of sexual 
abnormals, but Mars, Saturn and Neptune are frequently in 
affliction among themselves. In one case Mars is conjunct 
Saturn opposite Neptune; in another Mars and Neptune 
together, 30° from Saturn, and so on. Women's charts are no 
exception to this, and so aspects between Mars and Neptune 
seem to live up to the bad name they are given in the textbooks. 
From other cases known to me of quite normal people who 
have Mars, Neptune aspects, I am driven to the conclusion 
that they do nevertheless bring the native into contact with 
peculiar and abnormal conditions in the field of sex. 


For example one woman, who had Mars opposite 
Neptune, with Saturn in good aspect to both, had an 
illegitimate son, and in late years lived with a male relative 
who was a sexual deviate. In another case the Midheaven 
progressed to the midpoint between Mars and Neptune, 
inconjunction at birth and the native became the victim at the 
courts on a sexual charge. In both the maps of the 
nymphomaniacs usually there is square between Mars and 
Neptune. Mr. C.E.O. Carter in his Astrological Aspects says of 
these afflictions, "These aspects do undoubtedly stimulate the 
imagination immensely, so that, if the mind is of a sordid 
character, the fancies take their hue from it, and level in 
impurity, sometimes with external results of a grave kind. 
Ordinary life is too humdrum and colourless for the Mars- 
Neptune native; hence he seeks pursuits that are capable of 
appealing to the romantic and grandeur loving elements of 
the soul. That some seek a false satisfaction in the realms of 
the drug addict and the sensualist." It is well known that 
homosexuals consider themselves to be infinitely superior to 


34 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


normal citizens, and in the nature of a chosen race much 
misunderstood by the rest of us. The characteristics of Neptune 
can be clearly seen in this delusion. 


The effect of Saturnian afflictions to Mars may dampen 
the normal passions, and at the worst cause more or less 
damage to the virility. Ptolemy wrote: ” If Mars is accompanied 
by Saturn alone, he produces a man cautious, hesitant and 
frigid,” while Mr. Carter says: "Saturn controls passion in good 
aspect, but in bad destroys and perverts it," and Mars : "In 
good aspect stimulates the animal feelings along lawful lines; 
in affliction he destroys them by over-stimulation and 
excesses." 


Mercury-Uranus Aspects— In addition Mercury is nearly 
always in aspect to Uranus, though not always afflicted by it. 
Obviously the mind must delight in what is unusual in these 
cases, and if at the same time either Mercury or Uranus is 
linked to Mars even by minor aspect, this provides clearer 
proof of the direction the twist in expression will take place. 
The aspects to Venus in these charts are interesting. Venus is 
never ina weak position, and there is no reason why it should 
be, since it indicates the capacity for affection, and this seems 
to be given and accepted quite freely by these people. Venus 
also bestows charm on the native, and homosexual has it in 
good measure. He is often found in the artistic professions, 
and this is quite in keeping with a strong Venus; for example, 
Niinsky had Venus conjoining the Sun, trine Mars and the 
Moon and sextile Neptune. A woman artist has Venus near 
Midheaven, conjunct Neptune and sextile Mercury. It may be 
that a too strong Venus ina male chart, especially where Mars 
is afflicted and inhibited, increases the effeminacy at the 
expense of normal virility. 


Cases of impotence are probably due to the weak 
procreative Sun in cadet 1.e, 3rd, 6th, 9th or 12th houses or in 
a weak sign. It is difficult to prove this statistically, for such 
charts do not often come the way of the astrologer. Frequently 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 35 


it occupies Pisces. In one case the Sun is in Virgo opposite the 
Moon in Pisces. Sometimes there is an aspect of Saturn, but 
more often there is an aspect of Jupiter. In eight out of ten 
charts, I found an aspect of the Sun and Jupiter; in the 9th, the 
Sun was in Sagittarius, and in the 10th in Pisces. It is instructive 
to remember that Pisces, the 12th house sign (or the house of 
the evil Demon, according to Ptolemy), is partly ruled by 
Jupiter and is connected with the Christian Church, which in 
the heyday in the Middle Ages was strong advocate of 
celibacy, both in its priests, and in the monks and nuns who 
shut themselves away from normal worldly life. Even today 
the Roman Catholic Church is strict in its teachings about the 
place of sex in the life of the citizen. Very often Neptune 
aspects the Sun-Jupiter configuration. This is so in every chart 
that I possess of this particular disability. 


Mr. C.E.O. Carter contends that certain degree areas are 
linked with sexual problems, the worst being 25° Leo- 
Aquarius, and 8° Aries-Libra. Maurice Wemyss finds 17° 
Aries-Libra especially outstanding. Ptolemy lays a good deal 
of the blame to the fixed stars 1 * and the constellations, like 
the "Hydes; the Pitcher, the hind parts of Leo, and the face of 
Capricorn," as well as "the forward and hinder parts of 
Aries."2 Today, and taking account of precession, the chief 
star of the Hydes, which are six stars on forehead of the Bull, 
is in about the Sth degree of tropical Gemini. Plolemy gives 
all the group a questionable name.3 He thinks even less of the 
"hind parts of Leo" which stretch into the middle of tropical 
Virgo, for tradition says that all the stars in the "neck, back 
and wing" of Leo are apt to cause trouble. 


For example, Zosma now about 10° Virgo, on the Lion's 
back may cause immorality and gives a "shameless and 


* |. The Stars and Your Future by Manik Chand Jain. 
2. Zodiacal Constellations (Atlas of Heavens) by Manik Chand Jain. 
3. Ptolemaic Astrology by Dr. W.J. Tucker. 


36 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


egotistical nature." This star is squared by aldebaran in the 
9th degree of Gemini, one of the Four Royal Stars among the 
ancient Persians. The Stars in the mouth of Capricorn are 
actually in about three or four degrees of tropical Aquarius. 
All these places emphasised in many of these cases; for 
example, one has Mercury 3.5° Leo, opposite Uranus in 9° 
Aquarius, trine Venus in 3° Libra. Niyinsky had Jupiter in 3.5° 
Aquarius, another chart has Uranus in 4° Aquarius, and so 
on. 


Astrology thus substantiates the conclusions of 
psychology. Sexual deviations have their seat in the mind, 
the imagination, the character, and are often the result of early 
training, and mother-attachment. The frequency of Saturn 
contacts emphasises the long-standing nature of the neurosis, 
and the pattern of the past imposed upon the present. This is 
not a doctrine of despair, for as the physician may cure 
weaknesses and diseases of the body which are indicated in 
the birth horoscope, so may the psychiatrist eradicate or 
alleviate the "diseases of soul," as Ptolemy termed them 
seventeen centuries ago. 


Romance... Planets and You ! 


Just as the facets of a gem provide avenues of perception 
into the intrinsic quality and beauty of the stone, revealing its 
refraction, density and colours, so the houses of the natal chart 
provide a many-faceted insight into the degree of quality and 
beauty of an individual's life. An unfaceted gem looks like a 
dull and uninteresting pebble until, in the hands ofa skilled 
lapidary, it is ground and polished to display its hidden beauty 
and lustre. Similarly the horoscope, in the hands ofa proficient 
astrologer, reveals the intrinsic quality of the life of the 
concerned individual. 


* Each house of the natal chart describes many facts of the 
life. Primarily, there are five distinct facets in each house, 
giving insight into the vary coloured human emotions and 
feelings that attract or repel planetary influences impinging 
upon the individual. The natal chart shows how these 
influences are filtered out and stepped up or down, as the 
case may reveal, by the individual's personal ego—his inner 
or spiritual self. For we all react differently to the same stimuli, 
and this individual reaction to stimuli is dependent upon the 
astral aerials that were set up at our birth, as revealed by the 
natal chart. 


38 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Besides the influences revealed by the houses of any birth 
chart, there is a relationship between the houses also. Any 
aspect among the planets in or of the two houses indicates a 
planetary aerial that picks up stellar vibrations of unlike or 
like nature, and has a discordant or harmonious influence 
upon the affairs of these houses according to the nature of the 
aspect and the intrinsic strength of the planets involved. A 
strongly aspected planet in the 2nd house making an aspect 
to the significator of Sth, reveals an influence between these 
two houses i.e. between financial matters and romantic affairs. 
Financial matters will have a strong influence upon romantic 
affairs, if this 2nd house planet is stronger than the 5th house 
significator that it aspects. Romantic affairs will have a 
stronger influence upon financial matters, should the Sth 
house significator be the stronger of the two, especially if it is 
an applying aspect. 

Your 5th house is social house, revealing facets of your 
relationships with other people on purely emotional basic — 
how you act in romantic matters, the types of people you 
attract or repel in the affairs of heart, and whether these people 
have a discordant or harmonious impact upon your inner self. 
Because this 5th house is so much a social house, we must 
keep in mind the indications of the 7th house also, as this is 
the culmination point of some of the affairs of the Sth. The 
Sth house of any natal chart depicts the influences that have 
to do with romance, children, pleasures, speculations and 
affections of the native. The difference in romance and 
affections may not be clear to you at first, but I will deal with 
these two divisions separately, and clarifications will be made 
as I proceed. 


The nature of results of planetary positions depend upon 
the natures of the planets involved and their harmonious or 
inharmonious placement in signs and houses in the chart. 
Remember that all the phases of activity depicted by a house 
in the natal chart will be affected in much in the same manner 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 39 


by planetary influence to this house. That is when a malefic 
planet afflicts the house significator, all affairs of that house 
suffer. Those affairs will suffer according to the nature of 
planet making the unfortunate aspect. When romance suffers 
then children, pleasures, speculation and the affections also 
suffer, though these sufferings may be in varying measures. 


Blending Influences 


Begin the study of your own Sth house by comparing the 
sign on the cusp with the influences of the sign of this house 
of the natural zodiac, i.e., Leo. The planet Pluto is exalted in 
Leo, therefore Pluto's own sign, Scorpio, reveals most 
fundamentally the harmonious influences abetting 5th house 
matters. This sign relationship with the affairs of the house is 
basic and provides an undercurrent of feeling and colour that 
can be constructive or negative, as to the degree the 
compatibility of the signs reveals. Those signs that are in 
accordance with Plutonian influences show a basic harmony, 
and those signs that have a compatibility with Mercurian 
influences show a basic discord in Sth house affairs. 


If the 5th house has no planet in it, judge all matters 
relating to this house from the ruler of the sign on the Sth 
cusp. Many planets in the fifth house indicate that the affairs 
which are linked to this house will play an important part in 
the life. No planet in a house shows that the house matters 
will have only a small influence on the life in general, 
particularly if the ruler of the cusp is weak. The planet nearest 
the cusp of the 5th, within the house, is regarded as the chief 
significator of the house. Planets within the house have greater 
bearing on the affairs of the house than does the ruler of the house 
cusp, if that ruler is located elsewhere in the chart. 


Planets in the Fifth House 


The Moon shows lack of constancy in romantic life, and a 
tendency to flit from one admirer to another without definite 
reasons. 


40 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


The Sun shows the most successful and dominating 
influence on the part of the native in romantic affairs. A 
woman with a strong Sun in the 5th house will choose a man 
whom she can dominate romantically. 


Mercury has mostly a discordant influence on romance 
for too discriminating nature. Mercury is a discriminating 
planet, and placed within a house of emotions and love, it 
does not bring the most satisfactory circumstanes. Besides, 
Mercury is a convertible planet, taking the influences 
primarily of the planets that it aspects or aspected by most 
closely. 


Venus reveals that romantic life possesses much of the 
Venusian quality of affection, and one instinctively attracts 
romance of a sublime nature. If the 5th house is adversely 
afflicted, of course, this Venusian influence will be sadly 
besmirched eg. an affliction from the Moon shows 
slovenliness in romantic affairs, be the native a male or female. 


Mars shows that strife will play a large part in all love 
affairs, and that there will be a great expenditure of energy in 
the matters of romance. 


Jupiter reveals one to be magnanimous in his romantic 
life and, as Jupiter is strong or weak by sign and aspects, 
indicates how this largesse will affect your inner self. 


Saturn often gives a quality of coolness in matters of romance 
and, if severely afflicted, shows a lack of romantic admirers. 


Uranus is a distruptive influence in one's romantic life, 
for it reveals an underlying tendency to unconventional and 
unorthodox romantic attachments and methods of affection. 
When Uranus is well placed and aspected, it gives a Utopian 
influence on romance that may transcend earthly 
understanding or evaluation. 

Neptune shows one to be a visionary in the affairs of the 
heart and probably a promoter in matters involving finance 
if there is an inner-house aerial with the 2nd house. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling M1 


Pluto lends itself well to the romantic affairs of this house 
when it is harmonious. In this case; it usually reveals a 
tendency to cooperate in the affairs of the heart. 


ROMANTIC AGGRESSIVENESS 


Your attraction of a lover will be revealed by the 
aspects made to your Sth house planet. This lover will be 
attracted to you, ifa planet from another house is in applying 
aspect to your Sth house planet. You will be attracted to the 
other party should your Sth house planet be in applying aspect 
to another planet. If the chief significator shows you to be the 
ageressor in the matter of romances, then this will be 
emphasized if it is a fast-moving planet. You are shy and 
bashful in affairs of the heart and are too retiring to make the 
first move yourself if the significator is a slow-moving planet, 
especially if the knight on the white horse or the lady of your 
life is to be the aggressor. 


The quality and characteristics of the planet making the 
aspect reveal the type of individual, while the sign and house 
of the aspecting planet reveal his/her interests and status. 
The planet which aspects your Sth house significator most 
closely will show the type of the individual that you will 
attract, or to whom you will be attracted, for the purpose of 
romance. If Saturn forms a close aspect to this significator, 
you will be attracted most strongly to a person older than 
you, or one who gives evidence in his nature of Saturnian 
characteristics. An aspect from Jupiter in your 9th house to 
your Sth house planet shows an attraction to a romantic 
partner who is of a jovial nature, interested either in real estate 
or the hotel business, probably possessing wealth. 


BATTLE OF THE SEXES 


There are other matters in your chart than your 5th house 
influences that have an effect on your romantic life. The astral 
energies that a woman receives from all the men with whom 


42 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


she comes in contact supply her with powers that affect 
her whole life, even her health. These energies are imparted to 
her through her father, her brothers, her own men friends and 
through the men she meets at business or work place or at home. 
Likewise, this also applies to men in regard to women. 


The kind of energy that the woman receives from the men 
with whom she comes in contact, and whether this energy 
has a beneficent or adverse effect upon her whole existence, 
is shown by the aspects made to the Sun in her natal chart. If 
these aspects be unfortunate, the effect of men in her life will 
be detrimental to her best interests, and she will receive only 
trouble at their hands, and in turn this is true of the women 
with whom a man comes in contact. The types of men and 
their status in life will be shown by the quality of the signs 
and houses of the planets aspecting her natal Sun. Ina man's 
chart, for the influence of women the same principle is 
involved in regards to the Moon as outlined for the female in 
regards to the Sun. : 


We call this the influence of the opposite sex. Ina woman's 
chart, a square between the Sun and the Moon shows her to 
be generally unfriendly with women and she prefers the 
company of men. This same aspect in a man's chart shows a 
man who prefers the company of women to that of men. The 
opposition aspect, while its separating influence is keenly felt, 
does not appear to give the native the resentfulness of feeling 
imparted by the square. 


You will be happier if you cultivate the type of individual 
of the opposite sex revealed by the planet that fortunately 
aspects our hyleg* planet, and avoid the types shown by the 
afflicting planet. Male and female are complementary to each 

*Hyleg is represented by the strongest planet occupying one of 
the aphetic places; that is from the 25th degree of the 8th house to the 
25th degree of the 11th house, from the 25th degree of the 12th house 


to the 25th degree of the Ist house and from the 25th degree of the 6th 
house to the 25th degree of 7th house. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 43 


other in many more ways than sexually, and it is the wise 
individual who regards all facets of the attraction, rather than 
only the one that may appear dominant at the time. 


VENUS REVEALS AFFECTION 


Just as the influences on the 5th house reveal the principal 
romantic ties and love affairs of the individual specifically, 
and the aspects to the hyleg planet show the general influence 
of the opposite sex, so the sign, house and aspects made by 
Venus reveal the affectional nature of the native. With a 
prominent Venus, well placed by sign and aspect, affectional 
matters will play large part in your life and will bring you 
satisfaction, according to the aspects that Venus makes, and 
vice versa. A sextile or a trine between Venus and Mars shows 
that the individual will prosper affectionally from members 
of the opposite sex who are impulsive, assertive, rash and 
headstrong. A square, opposition or conjunction between 
Venus and Mars shows the opposite to be true. 


Venusian influence joins with the general conduct of the 
5th house in the love embrace of marriage. The purer the 
influence of Venus is in the natal chart, the purer will be the 
Venusian influence in the love embrace. The delays and 
impediments placed by society upon the culmination of 
romance is reflected by a progressed aspect involving the 9th, 
or legal, house at the time that a marriage is entered into by 
the native. Suffice it to say, however, that the romantic 
culmination of marriage in the sexual embrace as depicted in 
the chart does not necessarily imply a marriage in the eyes of 
social convention. In this light each chart must be weighed in 
relation to the chart of the affectional partner. A strong and 
aggressive Venus in one chart and retiring Venus in the other 
chart, or a strong Venus in both charts, may bring this romantic 
attachment to it culmination before, or without, social blessing. 
The strength of this influence in the chart, coupled with the 


44 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


general conduct of the 5th house, must be weighed against 
the influence of the environment when determining the 
chastity of the native. 


This imposition of one chart on another is the only logical 
way to determine the relative compatibility of two people in 
this respect. There has been too much written in astrology 
about the Sun signs of two people of opposite sex as a guide 
to their compatibility in affectional matters. While this 
influence of the Sun signs plays some part in general catalogue, 
it is but a small part. There are other more vital influences 
that determine this compatibility of nature of the two 
individuals. Generally the male represents the electric quality, 
while the female represents the magnetic quality of the union. 
There are instance, however, that are not at all uncommon 
where the electric qualities are more strong in the female and 
the magnetic qualities being more apparent in the male chart. 
Judging by the Sun signs alone, the student will be led astray 
and will evolve principles of judgement that are plainly 
erroneous. 


SOCIAL ATTRACTIONS 


It must be remembered that the Sth house also depicts 
influences that are only social and that do not necessarily 
involve matters of romance nature. A date to attend a dance 
may, or may not, involve an affair of the heart. It may be purely 
a social function or it may be the meeting place of lovers. But 
in either case, the type of individual attracted will be 
represented by some aspect involving the 5th house of the 
native. For example, there may be in your chart a strong aspect 
to the 5th house from the significator of this house Jupiter, a 
weaker aspect from Venus and a very weak aspect from 
Saturn. You will be most strongly attracted to members of 
the opposite sex who are of a jovial disposition and who give 
evidence of the Jupiter sign and house in your natal chart. 
You will, however, have within the realms of your social 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 45 


acquaintance or company of people of Venusian and Saturnian 
nature. This quality in your nature will always let your friends 
and acquaintances suppose otherwise. This is a facet of your 
5th house nature and you are only proving the efficacy of 
your astral qualities. 


If you are an unmarried individual, the affairs shown by 
your 5th house, by your Venus, and by the general aspects to 
your hyleg planet, determine the help or hindrance that 
members of the opposite sex will bring to you. Determine to 
spend your energy and effort in furthering your acquaintance 
with those types of people represented by the planets making 
fortunate aspects to your Sth house planets. Think back upon 
your associations involving the experiences that you have had 
in the past. What planetary characteristics did the individual 
possess who brought you happiness? What planetary 
characteristics are possessed by the individual who brought 
you sorrow in affectional matters? Now looking at your chart 
you will see that the fortunate aspects to your Sth house 
significator correspond to the fortunate association you had 
with the individual represented by that particular planet. 


When you judge these influences, do not overlook the 
parallels. If there is an aspect between two planets that are 
also in parallel, the influence will be felt all the more keenly. 
Two planets that are in parallel but not in aspect give evidence 
of a strong attraction between the two characteristics, although 
it may be difficult for the individual to derermine the extent 
of this attraction, also,whether it will be of help or hindrance. 
Fundamentally, the parallel is basically a neutral aspect neither 
fortunate nor unfortunate. The parallel is a strong aspect and 
its influence is far-reaching, because it generally lasts longer 
than do the other aspects. Planets often progress beyond the 
orb of their aspects and still remain parallel. When this 
happens, the influence of the aspect will be felt long after it is 
over. A parallel always brings into prominence the quality of 
the natal aspect. 


46 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Our society today has become such a closely knit group 
that much of an individual's businesss and financial success 
is a direct reflection of his social i.e., 5th house characteristics. 
Each of us can improve on these natal influences by stressing 
on the best in our charts —but it requires practice. It is wise, 
therefore, to cultivate in our conduct those basic principles 
revealed by the best planetary placements and aspects 
affecting our natal 5th house. Practice meeting strangers easily, 
put your best foot forward at all times, supplant indifference 
towards others with a personal interest in their affairs, keep a 
pleasant social outlook on the world and you will find doors 
opening to you now where only a solid wall appeared before. 


How to Improve Your Love Life 


One of the most potent breeders of trouble in our lives 
today is the habit of condemning the other fellow without 
understanding his temperament or motives. There is, for 
instance, the man who, while maintaining his own infallibility, 
asserts that the other fellow needs continual and forceful 
correction. This habit is most devastating at the home. The 
friction between the husband and wife, often stemming from 
the habit of mutual improvisation, discolours the outlook for 
both and also showers uncertainty and fear upon their 
children. 


~ Astrology offers the most helpful and comforting 
assistance for such problems and reveals three basic attitudes 
that tend to condition the relationship between persons. First 
group loves action and change. An individual dominated by a 
love of action may seem quite changeable in his affections. 
He may seem almost bent to enjoy a tense quarrel —as well as 
the sweet make up that follows. This characteristic is signified 
in general by the cardinal signs. 
A second group is motivated by an urge for stability, 
security and some degree of fixity in expression of the 
affections. The individual yearns for a safe, certain and 


48 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


permanent attachment. Anything which he fears is inharmony 
and upsets in the stability of such an association. The fixed 
signs signify this urge for stability. 

A third group is moved by the desire for experience. These 
individuals look for an expansion of consciousness in their 
close relationships. The love is often expressed through the 
sense : hence, he may allow his feelings and emotions to 
dominate his relationships. The common signs in general 
show the desire for experience. 


In determining the potential harmony or discord in the 
love life of an individual, a competent astrologer will consider 
many factors, including the position and aspects of the Moon 
and the ascendant, condition of the seventh house etc. 
However, much information can be obtained merely from the 
study of the sign position of Venus, planet of love and affection 
and ruler of the natural seventh sign, Libra. 


ARIES - If Venus was in Aries at your birth, your strength 
may lie in your idealism and vivid imagination. You can be 
sparkling, brilliant and passionate, inducing fire in others by 
the intensity of your earnestness. But often, just when the other 
person begins to respond, you will not be interested for want 
of change shown by Aries. He may be startled and hurt by a 
sudden coldness on your part, that seems incomprehensible 
to one expecting consistency. This tendency to “blow hot and 
cold" may put you in a great deal of inharmony. 


You are an idealist. When others start to match your 
visioned ideal, you turn away. It is sure, some fault may lie 
with the other person, but who is perfect? Are you? There 
may be something you can correct within yourself. Most 
people eventually learn that life's experience never match the 
ideal, that adjustment is necessary. 

You should include in your idealism the thought of 
stability, reliability and the meaning of kindness, especially 
towards those who are close to you. If you can be more 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 49 


tolerant, offering more steady warmth and kindness and less 
of the burning heat, others will respond with deeper regard. 
As a consequence, your whole life will more closely match 
your ideal. 


TAURUS - If you have Venus in Taurus, you will be 
patient, possessive and cautious in relationships with others. 
Because you feel a deep need for security, you may be slow in 
awakening to the full bloom of love. However, once you have 
given your affection, you will be dependable and steady — 
and your love will be long lasting. Others, however, may not 
have your yearning for security. Your mate may long for an 
occasional fling, may yearn for an occasional change or 
perhaps fora less physical and binding demonstration of love. 


It is a natural instinct for you to be possessive, to hold 
closely and permanently, anything that you love. Your mate, 
however, if held too tightly, may suffer from a sense of 
bondage. Possibly, the irritations which may afflict your life 
stem from the unconscious struggle of your partner or yourself 
against the element of possessiveness. 


If you can learn to be more trustful, to love with a lighter 
touch, the friction would be lessened and your love life would 
be more secured. That which is held tightly often withers if 
refused the sunlight of freedom. Unselfish, unpossessive love 
will attract and hold by the very beauty and wonder of its 
nature—and without bondage. 


GEMINI - With your Venus in Gemini, you tend to be 
more mental than emotional in your feelings. You should have 
a keen appreciation of the mood and rhythm in art, music, 
and literature. If the ideas of love and romance stir you, they 
will tend to be by way of mental entertainment rather than 
towards the materials or physical expression of love. That kind 
of attraction which holds two people together and cements a 
lasting bond between them through years of prosaic, 
unromantic living may be hard for you to understand. Some 


50 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


may call you fickle minded because of your apparent boredom 
with mundane and repetitions of details. 


Life is more than make-believe. Reality must be faced if 
you want to improve your association with others. It may be 
hard for you to be consistent in love—and stable. It may be 
difficult to face the important but prosaic facts of life. But only 
by doing so you can make your dreams real. It is necessary 
either to face life realistically or to relinquish the happiness 
of personal association. 


Perhaps harmony, for you, lies in purely mental life, 
serene, detached and free from emotional tangles. 
Improvement in your love life, then, can only be obtained by 
placing your association on a plane of mental compatibility. 
Here, your changeable, restless nature may be less apparent, 
less potential for discord and inharmony. 


CANCER— When your Venus is in Cancer, you are of a 
receptive temperament, sensitive and affectionate. If other 
elements in the chart confirm this, it is fortunate, of course, 
for domestic and romantic harmony. You love your home and 
family and probably devote much thought to the care and 
protection of those you love. In this regard, your actions may 
take two directions. You may strive to surround your loved 
ones with and atmosphere of hope and happiness. At other 
times, you may be militantly defensive, alert to any possible 
threat to your domestic life. 


Any extreme swing in either direction is a trouble brewer. 
Your love may become too sensuous, sentimental and 
suffocating, actually repelling those you love. On the other 
hand, your active imagination may cause you to exaggerate 
beyond all reason what might seem like a threat to you or 
your household. 

You may vacillate from one extreme to the other. This 
changeability may be the greatest single threat to yourself and 
to those you love. If you can learn to curb extremes and achieve 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 51 


a reasonably balanced programme, you will be able to offer 
greater protection to those you love for yourself. 


LEO - If Venus was in Leo at your birth, your strength 
may lie in your loyalty, reliability and geniality. You have a 
very magnetic nature, capable of attracting the respect, 
admiration and even a deep affection from others. You have 
a natural gift of social life and know instinctively how to obtain 
honour and applause from others. You may be very sensitive 
about your appearance, having an inborn desire to present 
your most favourable side. Herein may lie a certain weakness. 
Personal pride and the seeking of attention could include 
elements which make questionable the permanence of your 
associations. 


Love is for marriage and marriage is forever. These words 
may well express your attitude. But stealing the spotlight 
whenever you get the chance, risking jealousy by trying to 
outshine others, even inviting ridicule through an over- 
display of jewellery or dress, these matters can create 
inharmony in your association with your mate. 


You have the potentiality of great and beneficient kindness 
whenever you stop to consider persons other than yourself. 
A full and lasting love is assured for you when you can take 
control of your love nature and smooth off the hard, brilliant 
corners of your temperament. 


VIRGO — A Virgo Venus shows that the ideas of 
discrimination and analysis will have considerable appeal for 
you. This could lead either to suppression of almost all 
emotional expression or to sublimation of the feeings into less 
personal fields. In any case, you will find that a life lived for 
purely personal pleasure is wholly unsatisfactory. Although 
you may be aware of a desire for experience, this may take a 
mental direction rather than the emotional or sensual. More 
sensual enjoyment tend to fade into nothingness under the 
penetrating gaze of analysis. However, trouble grows if you 


52 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


attempt to freeze the emotional enjoyment of other with your 
critical thought. 


Understanding and tolerance wisely blended with 
kindness is a healing formula which can be used to solve any 
problem arising between two persons. It may be that 
understanding is a medicine not easy for you to obtain. 
Tolerance may have to be sought earnestly. 


However, if love of analysis is sufficiently penetrating, if 
a desire for the betterment of your love life is sufficiently keen, 
you can find the right proportion of healing medicine. There 
is a love which is worth while experiencing —a love neither 
sensual, nor emotional and still highly satisfying —and it can 
be available to you if you seek it. 


LIBRA — With Venus in Libra, you have a sympathetic, 
refined and idealistic disposition. You are probably more 
romantic than possessive, more idealistic than physical in the 
expression of your affection. When you find a mate who can 
share your ideals and love of refinement, this placement of 
Venus promises many happy days ahead. On the other hand, 
if you feel you would be unable to find a congenial 
atmosphere in marriage, you may decide to remain single — 
or if already married, a separation may seem necessary. This, 
of course, could mean loneliness and lead to even greater 
problems. 


Harmony is doubtless by your ideal, a goal ardently 
sought—harmony in your association with others, in your 
home, in your emotions. Any ugliness or vulgarity is 
repulsive. Love, for you, is almost a matter of worship. 


Sometimes you may seem to be "struck cold" by mundane 
ordinance, casual carelessness of loose liberties. You then 
show a cold withdrawal often misunderstood as pride or 
snobbishness. The very discord you try to avoid may result 
from this action. Your natural kindness and sympathy should 
help to overcome recurring periods of coldness. Kindness 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 53 


breeds tolerance, and tolerance is a balance wheel which 
generates harmony —the very thing you worship. 


SCORPIO — When Venus occurs in Scorpio for you, it 
denotes an intense, ardent and sustained love nature. 
Profound, even exalted emotional experiences are possible— 
or the most degraded. You will tend to be extremist in 
whatever direction you turn. There will be fixity and one- 
pointedness about your feelings that will tend to colour your 
whole life. Extreme sensualism often rather repels others, 
forging much suffering in its heat. On the other hand, extreme 
spiritual awareness may open certain of life's doors, seldom 
reached by ordinary mortals—and separate you from any 
merely personal love. 


Venus in Scorpio is sometimes aware of a mysterious life 
centre from which emanates a wonder and a glory, 
rejuvenating, sustaining and wholly satisfying. This 
awareness may seem closer to you under conditions of 
sustained adversity or pressure. 


To challenge this centre, to bring its protective power into 
action, you need not break convention, disregard honour and 
abandon a sane way of living. You can create the necesssary 
pressure by a sustained self-discipline. A full, satisfying 
expression of this position of Venus could then result. It will 
deny you nothing worthwhile. It will bring you not only 
honour, credit and love from your dear ones, but also a more 
intense and intimate understanding of the secret life. 


SAGITTARIUS — If Venus was in Sagittarius at your 
birth, your greatest strength may lie in your aspirational 
nature. Never too stable in love matters and emotionally 
restless, you may yearn for an experience which will provide 
an expansion of consciousness that is literally "out of this 
world." There is every possibility that your yearning may, at 
least temporarily, take you in the wrong direction. You have 
a certain magnetic sparkle about you which many times 
fascinates others, particularly the persons of the opposite sex. 


54 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


If you keep your relations on an impersonal basis, you 
will retain the admiration, respect and friendship of others. 
But those who know you intimately may call you fickle, 
changeable and restless because you seem unable to 
experience sustained emotional satisfaction. 


Your heart speaks to you of other worlds, airy realms fed 
by fascinating fiery flames. Should you reach for ephemeral, 
fairly fantasies only, emotional happiness may miss you 
completely. Venus in Sagittarius offers at its highest level an 
awareness of eternal truth, on the level of the higher mind. 
But this is neither dream nor illusion. You must guide your 
yearning truth-wise to know real happiness. From this level, 
you may truly help and satisfy your loved ones. 


CAPRICORN — Venus in Capricorn shows that you are 
essentially conservative and concrete in all matters relating 
to love. You have a keen awareness of what is considered 
right or wrong and you may live your life according to some 
personal code of ethics. Ideas of personal romance may not 
stir you nearly as much as the thoughts of morality or honour. 
Passion for you may be a stage passed through quickly and 
forgotten. You seldom find sustained satisfaction in emotional 
expression. Consequently, your best chance of harmony with 
others lies in the field of your mutual interest and your 
material love of work of purpose. 


You may love your home, find comfort in the company of 
loved ones. You may also have your work, finding your best 
emotional expression through action in that field. If domestic 
harmony means much to you, kindness and tolerance rather 
than coldness and indifference are essential. 


Perhaps you cannot always expand in loving warmth 
when it is expected of you. But you can be kind and learn to 
check the harsh words which sometimes spring unbidden 
from you. Others may not see things as you do, and harmony 
is not obtained by forcing your own rules on others. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 55 


AQUARIUS — With Venus in Aquarius, you will be 
thoughtful, kind and freedom loving. Your love tends to 
expand and spreads in universal friendship over to many 
rather than centred in a small, exclusive circle. When you 
discover a partner who will cooperate with you in some broad 
mental purpose, you may achieve a degree of stability and 
happiness. However, you may be too socially inclined to be 
considered a quiet and respectable homebody. You may have 
some degree of stability in your affections — Aquarius is fixed 
sign. The problem is to avoid becoming fixed in the wrong 
direction. 


Your interest in many people may be one of the primary 
causes of inharmony. Some may resent your broad show of 
free affection. Your partner may not feel as free as you do and 
will be hurt by your laxness. If you desire to improve your 
love life, to bring greater harmony into your domestic 
situation, you should learn to be a little more one-pointed, a 
little less inclined to disregard convention and the feelings of 
others and more kind towards those who are closest to you. 


Love is like a spotlight which, when focussed on one 
subject, is revealing and forceful. If you let it be broadened 
out in too wide a beam and it becomes dim and weak, unable 
to portray beauty. 


» PISCES — When your birth Venus is in Pisces, it shows 
you are affectionate, intuitive and idealistic. There exists a vast 
inner realm of emotional experience within you, a realm 
seemingly unrelated to your objective life. With this in the 
background of your consciousness, you may be somewhat 
indifferent to the normal pleasures of the senses. Your 
sympathetic nature and intuitive understanding make it 
possible for you to assist those who are less advantaged. You 
can, as it were, put yourself in the place of the sufferer and 
understand his viewpoint and scarcities. 


Love with you is a broad, encompassonate feeling, not too 
stable, seldom focussed in an exciting and sustained passion 


56 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


and often lacking in decisiveness. There is a tendency with 
you to be associated either with people inferior to yourself or 
older — or superior. Your love inspires you to protect someone 
or to seek protection. Of course, a difference of age or social 
class or whatever it may be, between partners always brings 
impending disturbances or sorrows. You may even cherish 
your pet sorrow, fascinated with your own falling tears — and 
fail to take obvious steps to improve your life. Initiative and 
stability must go hand in hand with the understanding so 
that the better life may be experienced. 


6 


The Stars Offer You 
A Happy Marriage 


Astrology is the science to be made use of when you want 
your personal marital trends to be discussed. You can also 
get a reading of the horoscope of a person you intend to 
marry, and this will give you success possibilities and ways 
for happiness in married life. 


The 7th house of a horoscope governs marriage. Whether 
single or married, you will find the following information 
about the 7th-house conditions interesting and helpful. You 
may gain happiness, avoid frustration, be able to create a 
supremely happy marriage when you know your 7th-house 
trends. 


SUN—The Sun is a potent source of love and can make 
marriage a vivid and continuous joyous experience for you. 
This great luminary draws love, affection, fidelity, and 
dedication from the one in love with you. Marriage is a 
marvellous chance for being lastingly happy. 

Marriage is based on highest ideals when the Sun is in the 
7th house. Total honesty and loyalty are present; ethical views 
are firmly fixed. You will be generous in love but may expect 


58 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


even more generosity from your loved one. There is a tendency 
to want a career in the public eye, a dramatic life which will 
make you a source of news. There can be an unfortunate 
rivalry between you and your mate, for both of you may wish 
admiration. 


The Sun stands for authority, power, desire to feel and to 
be superior. Be very cautious of this trend in marriage; it could 
be disastrous to happiness in almost any marriage, whether 
actually leading to divorce or not. 


It is possible to make marital bonds stronger when both 
of you feel to be proud of each other and both draw reassuring 
pleasure from this fact. You can enjoy things together very 
much and will take pleasure in creating a beautiful home, 
elegant surroundings, and a picture for the community to 
honour you due to your high ethical standards as a family. 


Hostility that might arise due to the Sun's placement in 
your 7th house can be harsh and painful. Make every effort 
not to be tyrannical. Seek harmony and agreement through 
peaceful discussions, and keep up a determined front against 
ill will. 


MOON — Love and marriage are very romantic when 
the Moon is in the 7th house of a horoscope. You may be 
moody, and too often concerned about the house and its 
running rather than about love and your mate. Emotional 
tensions may arise when you take decision so seriously that 
it interferes with love in upsetting ways. 


You like to take on total responsibility for home and your 
family and do really like your partner to have share in 
decisions. By this insistence on bearing the major load of life's 
demands you may dampen your material and marital 
happiness considerably. 


Yet, due to the fact that you love home and family, you 
will strive for a joyous household full of love. You know how 
to make a comfortable environment, put guests at ease, and 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 59 


show them a picture of domestic harmony second to none. 
You want to make a serene setting for your love and will do 
your best to make a smooth-running, lovely home. 


Your marriage can be delightful due to your concern for 
the family's well being. You may want to be the perfect spouse 
for another just as you consider your parents ideal for each 
other, and you may try to follow such an example. 


To you, life is not really meaningful without marriage. Be 
strong in marriage, attentive in love; refuse to sit and brood 
in self-pitying fashion. Feeling sorry for yourself can lead you 
eventually to break down or cause a dreadful ruin of your 
marriage. Give your mate the gift of a cheerful spirit which 
can help hold up and maintain marriage in enduring 
happiness. 


MERCURY — Your temperament is changeable and may 
provide marriage with an everlasting variety. You can be 
highly intellectual or you can be emotionally vivacious. When 
your mate is in a romantic mood, you could be thinking of 
some abstract subject that attracts you. You will do well to 
try to regulate, your own moods as well as the harmonious 
pattern of your partner's moods. 


You get intense enjoyment from the discussion of 
literature, travels, the news and the latest scientific discoveries. 
Your mate must be well-informed and interested as you are, 
so that close conversations can provide many happy hours 
and a feeling of mutual mental stimulation and satisfaction. 


You like to stimulate and enjoy marriage in versatile ways, 
and avoid boring days and evenings. You would prefer to 
deal with misfortunes rather than desperation. You are able 
to talk and communicate easily, and this makes a happy 
marriage more possible. 

You are adaptable, enjoy travel to and living in various 
places, have no trouble in adjusting with new people. A mate 
with a career means a lot of travel would please you and relieve 


60 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


you from the boredom of the same home year after year. 


You can make marriage happy by pursuing identical aims 
in both work and hobbies or pleasure trends. Having many 
things to do together will unite you firmly, and discussions 
will seal you together. Mercury in the 7th house may bring 
about marriage with someone much younger than you. 
Whatever be the case, remember that vivid experiences shared 
are solid foundations for marital happiness. 


VENUS — Venus in your 7th house is surely beneficial 
for joyous love and marriage. Venus is the symbol of love, 
affection and pleasure. When favourable, you cannot miss a 
happy marriage unless there is some dreadly adverse feature 
elsewhere in your chart. The love which is Venus-inspired 
tends to be based on gentle understanding. Together you will 
share and enjoy artistic tastes and lovely environment. 


Marriage is gratifying with Venus in the 7th house and it 
makes it a serenely contented state. You will be joyous as you 
are able to win the rewards of love in emotional pleasure. 
You want nothing crude or inconsiderate mingled with love. 
Your mate must esteem and your sense of the exquisite in 
love. There must be nothing taken for granted or of 
questionable taste in your partner's attitude towards love. 


Venus rules the 7th house of the natural Zodiac, and brings 
you all the most harmonious love trends when it is in your 
house of marriage. You want perfect harmony in love with 
highest ideals. You want to be adored but must remember to 
give your mate a sustained feeling of being adored also. 


You can suffer in love if Venus is afflicted in your 7th 
house. In sucha case you may sublimate love to a life of public 
service and altruism, giving up all hope of personal and 
romantic marriage. Venus well aspected brings glamour into 
your married life and keeps the aura of love always secured 
around you. You carry this with you in public, too—and, thus, 
attract many people. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 61 


MARS — You may make the overtures, be aggressive and 
domineering in sensual love when Mars is in your 7th house. 
This planet energises your emotions and can bring about 
tension when you are frustrated. In marriage, this can destory 
serene balance and introduce difficulties not to be easily 
overcome. 


You express physical love strongly and want your mate 
to be keenly interested at all times. You want the full spectrum 
of lover's emotional impact. Marriage will be vibrant when 
Mars is favourable and love for you deserves foremost 
attention in all the life. 


You are rather demanding that your partner should yield 
to your opinions and desires. You win before you even get 
started usually, and an ideal mate lets you to have the chief 
say in most of the things. You work rapidly when misfortunes 
arise and clear away obstacles with a determined sweep. 


Marriage could see many quarrels, for Mars sets up a 
belligerent nature in many people and in your 7th house can 
bring hostility in love. You can be impatient, almost violent 
in anger and passion. Your impulses can lead to unpredictable 
situations which can bring disaster to marital love. 


To think of your mate unselfishly, to be gracious and 
kindly in marriage should be a goal for you to be attained by 
practice. You can avoid further quarreling, endangering your 
marriage if you will take this little step of being considerate 
day after day. You can discard turmoil, rash arguments, 
thoughtless actions—and marriage can be happier. In love, 
you are warm and able to bring great happiness through 
ardour. Keep your personal views set wisely and marriage 
will last happily. 


JUPITER — You rejoice in the good fortune of love and 
martial joy. Jupiter, with all its other bounty, probably will 
bring you good fortune in the love area if well aspected in 
your 7th house. You may build together a life of honour and 


62 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


affluence. There are good conditions for understanding 
devotion and total harmony. 


You are very loyal in love. Jupiter always bestows the 
ideals of honesty and fidelity. Your marital vows will be kept 
meticulously. You see marriage as a combination of romance, 
mental harmony, and spiritual realisation. You are somewhat 
sentimental about the significance of marriage. 


Sometimes Jupiter in the 7th house has adverse 
configuration with other planets; this can cause you to be too 
dictatorial, too sure that you are the only one who knows how 
to do things correctly and how to hold the right opinions. 
Marriage can be a big struggle against such odds. You may, 
be selfishly egotistic, wasteful and extravagant. 


You may waste time and money, be reckless instead of 
generous if Jupiter is poorly placed or aspected in your 7th 
house. However, Jupiter still continues to function with 
radiations which give you wisdom and help you strive to 
make a better marriage; thus, you still have a winning card 
with which to deal in marriage to keep it from becoming 
disastrous. 


Your tolerance and deep understanding make union with 
other more possible as a happy state. You will always be just 
fair with a mate and may finally come through with an ideal 
marriage which 1s a victory over all obstacles. 


SATURN — You desire marriage greatly but may find 
it difficult to make decisions about taking the step. 
Your emotions can be at war with each other, your interests 
under close inspection at all times when Saturn is in your 7th 
house. Yet your trend is towards endurance in love once 
you establish it in a solid marriage. You may find some 
restrictions in marriage, delays in marriage, for Saturn is the 
planet of restrictions, delays and self-control. However, you 
will be dutiful no matter whatever be the cost or 
inconvenience. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 63 


You can be generous with your mate yet harsh in judgment 
at times. You are so realistic and down-to-earth that you can 
brush aside dreams and fancies ina cruel way. You like to be 
considered reliable, will like your mate to depend upon you. 
You are thrifty—do not carry this too far or your partner can 
feel uncomfortable, may be unloved if you are miserly. 


Be wise in framing up a reasonable budget; allow enough 
for pleasure and clothes. If your mate does something 
unexpected with money, do not hit the ceiling; be very grateful 
if he/she supports you in an ambitious career and social life 
which makes your family a centre of friendly approval. 


Your patience is a good quality in marriage, and you have 
wisdom about what is right to make a happy union; so you 
will take time off to play in order to balance life and will refuse 
to be just a kind boring soon. You are willing to sacrifice your 
own wishes for the good of your marriage, for marriage must 
be solidly buttressed and kept in order. You must also bring 
down moods of distrust, fear, jealousy, suspicion, and 
depression about your marriage, for they can affect it 
adversely. Admit you are moody; then control it. 


URANUS — With Uranus in your 7th house, you can have 
an exciting marriage. Your independence and unpredictability 
lend a note that you could be found elsewhere and it may be 
one difficult aspect fora mate to understand or tolerate. You 
throw off restraints, allow no interference with your freedom. 
Marriage must let you feel free no matter how much you love 
your spouse or loved in turn. 


You want inspiring opportunities and seek them. 
A genius type mate could keep you endlessly admired and 
inspired. You must advance in thought or you 
will feel fenced in. You are a growing rather than a stagnant 
personality and character. You can be off hand about marriage, 
pay more attention to other affairs and people may tell you 
that you do not seem really married. 


64 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


You do not consider the opinion of others so seriously 
when it is a comment on your own behaviour. You ignore 
gossip, scorn jealousy, but are tolerant. Your mate can have 
conflicting views, and you won't care so long as these are not 
foisted upon you. 


You will be loyal and helpful, unselfish when need be; 
but you can be unreasonable in marriage, for you will insist 
on keeping your own attitude and opinions, even when these 
are very impractical. You are not very domestic, and your 
mate must be willing to take this without comment. Comment 
might make you defiant. You love to fill the home casually 
with people who are interesting to talk to; your mate may not 
always like this. 


Loyalty can save your marriage. Your 7th-house Uranus 
lifts your ideals in love. You will be capable of much 
unselfishness to benefit your loved one and will never expect 
much for yourself when it comes to the material. 


NEPTUNE — When Neptune is in your 7th house, you 
have a mystically lovely quality which appeals especially in 
love. With a favourable aspect to this planet, you will be 
sympathetic, loyal, and affectionate with a mate; but if 
Neptune is poorly aspected, you can make a hash of your 
emotional life, bring chaos in marriage. 


You view marriage as a special need and gift which you 
hope will come your way. You are idealistic and spiritually 
inclined in love. The earthy matters does not please you but 
repel you. There must not be a tinge of the sordid in your 
love relationship. You do not demand affluence and precious 
possessions so long as all else is well in marriage. 


You dream of love and might become just a dreamer, for 
you have difficulty in finding the right loved one. When you 
do find some one to love, you may try to imprint your dreams 
too strongly and then be disillusioned when the transference 
just does not "take". You become suspicious easily; and if you 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 65 


once believe your lover is unfaithful, it is very difficult to get 
you to change your mind. 


You need praise and admiration, a mate who will give 
you great sympathy and constant affection. This holds your 
emotions in security; otherwise, you can becomea distraught 
and disorganised individual, turning to false substitutes which 
can ruin love entirely, such as drink, drug etc. 


It is best that your partner be somewhat introspective, for 
marriage is a private affair to you and you want silence and 
seclusion for the love haven when daily tasks are done. You 
can keep quiet in lover's company or talk openly to this one 
person in the world with whom you are truly yourself. 


PLUTO — Marriage may bring to light facets of your 
personality you do not know yourself. You can have a unique 
joy in marriage, for your comprehension is vast and there are 
few if any limitations to a hard worker—a quality, a spouse 
might like your ability to roam mentally. You can soar to 
heights unknown to others when love comes to you. Together 
you can probe occult regions, find astonishing truths. It may 
resemble a launching into space for both of you. 


Your understanding of the forces of destiny adds to marital 
riches. You may both fetch honours and fame because you 
can work together, encourage one another and inspire each 
other. Pluto in the 7th house invites shared honours or honour 
just for you if you are not married. 


Wisdom and talents combine to win public admiration; 
friends always respect you. Your home can be the centre of 
amazingly interesting conversation that explores heights and 
depths of intellectual arena. When you pool your skills and 
transcendent wisdom with your mate's, you may reach new 
heights of wordly success. 


Sometimes worldly fame and fortune mar a marriage for 
those with Pluto in the 7th house. This could be an obstacle to 
intimacy of union and perfect understanding of unselfish kind. 


66 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Together in aspirations and endeavours, you can transform 
given opportunities into gold mines and story book 
imaginations into marvellous realities to benefit others. 


With the right mate, those with Pluto in the 7th house 
find it difficult to have to spend time apart from a partner 
and feel in paradise when together. Marriage is unique for 
you with endless blessings. Your devotion will be everlasting, 
unbelievably harmonious. 


NO PLANETS OR LUMINARIES 


If there is an absence of solar, lunar or planetary powers 
in your 7th house, it does not signify that you will never marry. 
You may find revealing clues to marriage possibility by 
studying the aspects formed by the Sun, the Moon and planets 
in your chart (especially to the position of your 7th-house ruler). 


The 7th house is the zone of contracts, there 
by concerned chiefly with the legal and partnership 
characteristics of marriage rather than the romantic’ trends. 
When the 7th house is devoid of any influence, a highly 
individualistic personality is present. Married or not,the 
person with such a chart will retain independent views. This 
means that working alone is desirable though married or ina 
business partnership. 


With this condition, you will exert strong individualism, 
take the initiative, hold ascendancy. In the 7th house of Prince 
Consort Philip Mountbatten —born June 10, 1921, at Corfu — 
there are no planetary or luminary influences, but he married 
devotedly and is the father of four children. Philip of 
Edinburgh has never become a mere figure-head in marriage 
but has remained his own man, standing apart, pursuing his 
own interests. Those who know the life of the dynasty are 
well aware that he does not follow others but always shows 
independent spirit. He is honoured for his good breeding, his 
strong character, and is a fine example of good adjustment 
among royalty of today's complex world affairs. 


What Makes Two People 
"Click"? 


In all romances, both the passing type and the type of 
serious intent which seek marriage or stable union, there is at 
first the moment of attraction. Sometimes it is spontaneous — 
two people become intensely aware of one another at the same 
moment. Sometimes recognition of what each could mean to 
the other grows slowly, though afterwards the beginning of 
strong interest can be traced back to a particular moment. 


How lasting the tie may be cannot exactly be determined, 
no matter how strong the initial attraction is. Regardless of 
the astrological indications, people do not act according to 
expectancy, certainly not in every case. Astrologically there 
are two types of background, that draw people together. One, 
however strong at the moment, does not usually last. The 
second that grows slowly has a better chance because it 1s 
built on fundamental sympathies. 


There is a type of attraction that stem from progressions 
alone. That is, the progressed Moon, for instance, of one moves 
to the other's Sun sign; sometimes the Moon may be in the 
same sign as the other's Venus or Mars, depending on the 
sex. Again, a whole group of progressed planets of one may 


68 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


come together in a conjunction that is at the same degree as 
other's Sun or ascendant. 


How strong such a contact can be was demonstrated just 
recently, when a young woman came to see me about a 
budding romance. She had the young man's birth date, but 
not the hour; so I could not took his ascendant into account. 
But all that existed between the charts as compatibility was 
her ascendant in the same sign as his Sun. Otherwise, there 
were no conjunctions or oppositions between the planets. They 
both had Venus in the same sign, but far away. But when I 
looked up her progressions, her Venus, Mars and Mercury were 
all conjunct in the same degree as his Sun. When I asked her 
what they had in common otherwise, she told an amusing story. 


One day, standing in queue in a supermarket, she began 
conversation with a very handsome and friendly young man. 
Living in the same neighbourhood —one frequented by 
students, musicians, etc. they met frequently and became 
friendly, began to visit back and forth, often cooking: meals 
for one another. He said very little about himself except that 
he was anarchitect. His name was foreign sounding. One day, 
through a careless word, she was able to put two and two 
together. His father was a well-kown man in diplomatic 
service, with a half page in Who's Who. (She admitted that she 
immediately went to the library to look up the data). 


He did not suspect that she knew his background. When 
I asked her if they had gone out together socially, outside of 
cooking meals for one another, she said — No. She was honest 
and admitted that after realising that his background was 
immensely superior to hers — that is, his potentials as a friend 
became glamorous — she thought she better find out what the 
prospects were. 


She knew enough Astrology to understand what I was 
talking about—that this was a passing attraction that she 
should see for what it was. If she wanted to have an affair, 
that was her business entirely; but told her frankly that I 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 69 


thought for her to hug the idea to herself that a deep, lasting 
relationship was possible was foolish. Now, many marriages 
take place on passing attractions not stronger than those 
described. But those attractions probably are between two 
people of similar background, training and experience—or 
perhaps the girl has unusual beauty, personality or 
accomplishment. But in this case, there was no glamour, no 
outstanding attractiveness, just a fairly nice-looking girl, short 
and dumpy, intelligent, but with only a fair eduction, poor 
background and only an average personality. But hope rise 
high in every girl's heart when she meets one who could be 
her "Prince Charming". At least, she was trying to find out 
the facts. Whether she will abide by them remains to be seen. 
She said she was capable of objective appraisal of her 
relationships. With three planets in Scorpio, she probably was. 


Instant recognition—love at first sight—is quite usual 
between two people whose charts have strong conjunctions 
and oppositions because these are the only personal aspects. 
Many times, trines are described in comparing charts; but 
what any one seriously interested in Astrology must realise 
is that trines do not make an impact. If there are trines between 
charts that also have the impact aspects —oppositions and 
conjunctions —naturally they help in smoothening the 
relationship. But no one was ever attracted to another because 
there are trines between their charts. Strong attractions need 
strong aspects that is conjunctions and oppositions. 


One of the most interesting exmaples of what the moment 
of attraction means was the case of Sally and Bob. They were 
both in the theatre-arts department in college, went to the 
same classes, attended the same college, Bob fell in love (at 
first sight) with the girl he married two years later. During 
the same year, Sally met the boy she later married. Bob and 
the boy whom Sally married had the same birthday. 


Neither Sally nor Bob were interested in Astrology; but 
Bob's girl, Susan, was. After both couples were married, Sally 


70 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


continued her correspondence with Bob; but this time, she 
wrote to Susan as well, as likewise Bob did to her and her 
husband. One day, Bob and his wife visited the other couple. 
Susan, interested in Astrology, asked Sally's husband his birth 
date. The general astonishment, when they realised that both 
the boys had the same birth date, can only be imagined. 


How alike are Bob and Andrew ? Physically, they are exact 
opposites — Bob, fairly tall, blond and plumpish, considerably 
an extrovert; Andrew, tall, lanky, dark, serious and quiet. A 
brilliant student, Andrew was offered scholarships by several 
graduate schools in his field. Naturally, the hour makes all 
the difference in personality and appearance (ascendant). 
Doubtless, Andrew's whole make-up, determinded by his 
background and house of birth, was more romantically 
attractive to Sally than Bob, with his blondness, like hers. 
Curiously, both these blond people married mates with exotic 
dark good looks. There must be something in the theory of 
the attraction of physical opposites. 

What is significant here is that Bob and Andrew, with the 
same birthday, became engaged about the same time. Bob 
had progressed Moon in the 7th, a transit that often times a 
union; but the most important aspect of both the boys was 
progressed Sun conjunction natal Saturn. Since both are 
Capricorn natives, when their ruling planet conjoined the Sun, 
they were ready to take on marital responsibility. Each was 
only of twenty-two, without worldly experience, except 
talented in their respective fields; hence, the Saturn-Sun 
progression was certainly a maturing aspect. 


To complete the details, Bob and Susan have very strong 
aspects between their charts; but Susan took much longer time 
to make up her mind. She admitted that she never had been 
so attracted to any boy as she was to Bob, which gave her 
something to think about, as she was a very popular girl. Her 
indecision naturally made her more desirable. After an old 
beau had come to see her at the summer school they were 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 71 


both attending, he proposed. When she came back from 
her date, she found Bob sitting on the dormitory porch; and 
that brought a showdown. With his Moon, Mars, Saturn and 
Venus surrounding her Sun, his impact on her was pretty 
strong. Further, they both have sympathetic earthy 
ascendants; and her ascendant is his Sun-sign. 


Sally later said that Andrew had made the same impact 
on her that Bob made on Susan, though the girls are not of 
the same sign. This case is certainly a proof, if proof is needed, 
that the same birthday may not mean the same thing and that 
background, training and personality expression make 
considerable difference in people born on the same day. 


Another factor that often determines the moment of 
attraction is a strong natal, progressed or transiting aspect 
drawing one into the life who represents that aspect. For 
instance in the case just discussed, both the boys, with 
progressed Sun conjunct Saturn, married the girls three years 
older than they were and the girls who had more practical 
experience than they had. Andrew was extremely wealthy; 
money was no problem at all. Bob though not of Andrew's 
financial class, had his way paid by his parents. Both girls, 
however, had paid their own way—Sally entirely, Susan 
partly. This is a good manifestation of a strong Saturn 
progression; the boys married practical girls. 


Sometimes the type drawn by a strong aspect represents 
all the difficulties of that aspect. For instance, a young woman, 
under the spur of Uranus making a stationary point exactly 
opposite her 7th-house Moon, married a man whose Uranus 
was exactly opposite her Sun. This is one of the most powerful 
attractions — unfortunately, with a typically Uranian with an 
unpredictable and often shattering outcome. 


The woman in question had the seven-years transit of 
Uranus in her twelfth house, with all its emotional stirring 
up and usual discontent. When it came into her first house, 
she was ready fora drastic move. Feeling that she would never 


72 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


get what she wanted at home, she left. Shortly after, just when 
the Moon received the exact Uranus opposition, she met the 
man whom she married after a month—again typically 
Uranian, the sudden attraction, the impulsive union — without 
knowing much about the man, taking him on trust only. 


Man's Uranus on her 8th cusp, exactly opposite her 2nd- 
cusp Sun, acted as might be expected. He was totally 
irresponsible in money matters, did not care from whom he 
got funds, got borrowing constantly, without any real 
intention of paying back. After some time, she realised that 
he expected her to raise money whenever it was needed; and 
what subtle manipulation had become open. As would have 
been expected, the marriage did not last and got dissolved. 


Now, this does not mean that the man in question acted 
so because his Uranus opposed her Sun, from her 8th to her 
2nd. He was what he was long before she met him, as she 
later came to know; he did not change even after she left him. 
But her willingness to take a chance, stimulated by a strong 
Uranus position opposite her 7th-house Moon, brought into 
her life a marriage (7th house) with a Uranian person. That is 
what she was subconsciously looking —for someone or 
something different. That is what she got —someone entirely 
different from her own standards of honesty and reliability, 
as well as different in religion, race and back ground. This is 
a fine example of what this kind of contact can do, even to a 
basically stable person, which this woman was. No wonder 
Uranus has a reputation for being the unpredictable and 
unforeseen. 


Another type of attraction is that of people with the same 
kind of charts—that is, the planets fall in a similar 
arrangement, with the same kind of emphasis of a single 
planet. A young man has all his planets in the east (left side to 
the chart), with Uranus in the 7th house the only planet in the 
west. One would immediately surmise a Uranian attachment, 
a Uranian wife or both. With all the force of nine planets east, 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 73 


with in half of the zodiac, pouring out through Uranus alone 
in the west, in the marriage house, a Uranian marriage 
situation was practically inevitable. That is what happened. 

His physical interest in women was very late in 
developing; when it did, it was of juvenile intensity, as might 
be expected in a late blooming. However, he contracted a 
relationship with a woman—he was then in his thirties — 
which was most strange and entirely Platonic. She was old 
enough to be like his mother, had children of his age; but he 
was more helpful to her than any of her offspring, did 
everything he could to make her life easier, borrowed money 
for her, etc. Without her date, which was not available, the 
attraction could not be analysed. That it was a fascination, he 
himself admitted and also that it took him a long time to see 
that he was pouring out without getting very much in return. 
Inevitably, this realisation brought the end of the relationship. 


Sometime later, he met a young woman with whom he 
fell deeply in love; he was then past forty. They are almost 
entirely alike, astrologically speaking. She too, has all her 
planets in a bowl, in the east, with Uranus standing alone in 
the west. It was as natural for her to attract a strongly Uranian 
person as for him. Both require considerable taken-for-granted 
freedom in their relationships; and since they both have the 
emphasized Uranus, it is something in which there is mutual 
understanding and no need for explanations. 


There are planetary harmonies, other than the similar 
pattern and singleton Uranus. Their Suns are in the same 
element, as are their Moons, indicative of basic temperamental 
harmony. Strong house emphasis is the same, which means 
both are interested in and influenced by the same 
circumstances (house). It is the coming together of similar 
Uranian temperament, each of them is interested in the 
unusual, different and original. It is a good marriage because 
both of them have the same life interests. They met only when 
both of them were ready for the marriage—he with the 


74 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


progressed Moon in the 7th, she with the progressed Moon 
in the 5th of romance opposite the Sun (Oppositions are 
marriage prone — seventh-house-aspects). 


Readiness for marriage often projects. in peculiar ways. 
One man who had been out of his house while travelling all 
over the world on business came back to his home town. He 
found that he knew no one. He decided that he had been alone 
long enough and wanted to marry. In practical Virgo fashion 
he joined the church and other groups where meeting a 
prospective mate was possible. But he wanted a wife who 
could let him alone to pursue his own interests which were 
philosophical. This made finding the proper wife a bit difficult; 
but after some time, he married a girl with whom his strongest 
and only contact was his Saturn on her Sun—a peculiarly 
fitting astrological tie. It is rather unusual to find a man who 
knows exactly what he wants in wife—and resists being 
sidetracked. With his Saturn within two degrees of her Sun, 
she could scarcely be the dominating factor; so he got what 
he wanted. 


There are no other ties between the charts. Her Mercury, 
within five degrees of his Saturn, is a wide mental link. 
Without her birth hour, I cannot find her ascendant; but she 
looks like Virgoan. If true, then his Sun and her ascendant, in 
the same sign, are the only compatible links. 


Yet from what he said, they were compatible; and when I 
saw them together, there seemed to bea deep tie. But recently 
his wife became so depressed that she needed psychiatric 
treatment, and that was one of the reasons he sought advice. 


When I pointed out that the only strong link between them 
was his Saturn on her Sun and then asked if he had been severe 
with her, he said that perhaps he had left her too much to her 
own devices, since he was always busy with his interests. So 
here Saturn stood for neglect — not blatantly, but through too 
much absorption in his own interests. At the moment of her 
breakdown, her progressed Venus exactly opposed Saturn, 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 75 


simultaneously with a progressed Full Moon. I explained what 
this sometimes means. He admitted that he had made a 
mistake. It was a genuine concern, not realising that she was 
emotionally depressed and undoubtedly had felt neglected 
and unloved. 


She had been very active and dynamic before marriage; 
then with no children, no keen interests of her own except 
reading and with a husband deeply absorbed in his studies, 
she gradually lost touch with reality. She seemed cheeful 
when I met her; and from her chart, the worst is over now, 
with some fine progressions ahead. But this is a strong case 
of "seek not your desire, lest you get it." 


In the beginning, during the discussion of the first case of 
the young lady who had met "Prince Charming" in the 
supermarket, I said that many marriages take place based on 
astrological factors that are passing or ephemeral, but often 
between those with similar backgrounds, training, religion, 
etc. By this, I mean that the strength of social likeness, the 
same standing, same aspirations, can be a strong cohesive 
force even in marriages which astrologically have little to hold 
them. People marry at the usual marriageable age ~ sometimes 
younger, sometimes older—but propelled by the idea that 
marriage has social sanction and social privilege — a couple is 
a social unit. If time passes and the ideal desired does not 
appear, then the usual way is to settle for what you can get if 
you cannot get what you want. 


Now, this thought probably is seldom conscious, but a 
natural development. When all your friends are married and 
you are not, you are a loner—and men feel this as much as 
women, if not more. So when kind friends set about making 
matches and the one concerned is ready for marriage, it is the 
social custom that wins, not the person primarily. This does 
not mean that the marriage is not good: wanting to get married 
is certainly as good a reason for marrying as any other. In 
such cases, it is the social group, the common customs, ways 


76 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


and hopes that support the union even when the basic 
emotional and temperamental ties, astrologically may not be 
strong —or even of the passing type denoted by short-term 
ties through progressions. 


But when the ties are of the above type and the basis of 
common experience and background is entirely different, 
then, unless each person is determined to make marriage 
work, it is not likely to endure or have real value. A cohesive 
force, either temperamental or mental, ora similar background 
and aspirations is needed. Most really good unions have both. 


8] 


Retrograde Venus and Mars 


What follows here will not be found in any textbook on 
Astrology that I have ever read. It is a rather "touchy" subject 
which most writers would rather like to avoid even if they do 
know about it. 


The investigations about the retrograding Venus and Mars 
started way back in the early 1948 and I have the opportunity 
to test the effect of these two planets in hundreds of cases 
since then. 


Not so long ago, when a famous actress got involved ina 
murder, the circumstances in the case suggested a retrograde 
Mars. On the examination of her horoscope,I found that such 
was the case. Ina police case (molesting) recently, I found the 
man to have a retrograde Venus in his birth-chart. 


A famous singer who was known as a sex deviated died 
suddenly several years ago; the papers showed his birth year 
as 1883. Knowing about him and that time in the midst of this 
investigation, I called upon his only surviving relative and 
asked about his year of birth and found that she had in 
confusion given the wrong year to the newspapers; it should 
have been 1882, the year when his birth date showed Venus 
retrograde. Many such instances in subsequent years have 


78 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


proved my theory that a retrograde Mars in a woman's 
horoscope has a profound effect and a retrograde Venus ina 
man's chart can bring on marital troubles not shown by 
anything else in the chart. It might be added that the singer 
just mentioned never married; the reason, of course, should 
be obvious. 


In the case of a retrograde Mars ina woman's horoscope, 
I am acquainted with a person who is a university graduate 
and very proficient in her profession. She says she never had 
any desire to get married and is now past the half-century 
mark in age. 


In another case, a young woman in her early twenties came 
to me the night before her scheduled marriage and posed a 
serious problem. She said that she was not sure if she should 
marry, and she could not understand why she was not thrilled 
by the idea of marriage, as her girl friends seemed to be. She 
was a college girl and had studied psychology but could not 
figure out her own case at all. She was born with Mars 
retrograde. Today, although she has two children, she still 
wonders why she got married —and her husband wonders 
why he is not appreciated. 


Another case ofa retrograde Mars ina woman's horoscope 
was typical of the havoc which such a Mars could cause in 
marital relations. This woman was a teacher in a university, 
as was her husband. She had reached an age when she should 
have settled down toa routine married life. Her children were 
married and she sued her husband for divorce. Mars was slow 
at the time of her birth, but turned retrograde about her 
fortieth year. After the divorce, she took up with a young 
fellow almost young enough to be like her son and was forced 
to give up her teaching career. 


It seems that retrograde Mars causes a woman to become 
frigid or go to the other extreme. There seems to be no middle 
course A middle-of-the-road course would be normality in 
married life or to get married and they skip that point. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 79 


Another woman who was successful in business, divorced 
her husband and took up with a fellow twelve years younger 
than herself and in the end lost her business. These women 
seem to be easy marks for any scheming young fellows they 
contact. In their search for somethig in the line of romance, 
they usually get themselves into trouble. 


The effect of Mars retrograde in a woman's horosope is 
not taken from pure speculation but is the result of hundreds 
of cases which have come to my attention in the past twenty- 
five years. Women with a retrograding Mars have actually 
told me dozens of times that they detested any intimate 
relations with a man, especially their husbands; while the 
others seemed to be going wild for sex with younger men. 


Mars can retrograde sixty to eighty days; of course, that is 
sixty to eighty years ina horoscope by progression. Before it 
starts to retrograde, its motion is very slow for at least two 
weeks; it does the same before it starts to redirect. During the 
slow-motion period, it produces the same effect on the 
personality of the woman. 


I have found that if Mars was retrograde during the 
gestation period, it marks the person more definitely. I do 
not believe that the woman ever feels passionate love during 
her life. She may get married and have children; but marital 
relations are not enjoyed warmly and in some cases even cause 
disgust. Most of them think they are the same as other women; 
but if they are married, their husbands tell the other story. 


Many of these women complain bitterly that their 
husbands are hovering around other women. They just cannot 
understand why their husbands are not content to live a 
brother-sister life with them. 


I would advise all students of Astrology that in cases of 
marital troubles to look first at the wife's horoscope to see if 
the chart shows retrograde Mars. Not all marital troubles stem 
from this aspect; but if it is there you can be rest assured it is 


80 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


the main cause of the trouble. The majority of marital troubles 
stem from sexual maladjustments. Any marriage that is based 
on the idea that one must be married just because it is the 
thing to do is surely doomed to failure sooner or later. 


One of the gredtest contributor to marital discord 
is retrograde Venus in the horoscope of the husband. Venus 
can be retrograde for forty-two days. If a man was born 
when Venus started to slow down, he could have this 
retrograding planet in his life for forty to forty five years. It 
would cover the prime time of the marriage period if one 
considers marriage to take place in the early twenties as the 
usual thing. 


The effect of this Venus retrograde is usually disastrous 
toa happy marriage. As in the case of a retrograding Mars in 
the horoscope of a woman it works to over-emphasise sex or 
to nullify it entirely —and, in some cases (If the rest of the 
horoscope assists), turns the victim to be a homosexual. This 
may occur particularly if the retrograde Venus is adverse to 
Uranus, Neptune or Mars. Even an adverse Jupiter can turn 
matters worse. 


It must be remembered that there are hundreds of methods 
employed by the homosexuals, ranging from complete lack 
of feeling for the opposite sex to dangerous and vicious acts. 
It is when the latter type does something that the public reads 
about it in the news papers. It is usually the non-vicious type 
that the astrologers and psychiatrists hear about from their 
wives. 


The most baffled wives seem to be those who married, at 
eighteen or nineteen, men five or six years older than them 
their common complaint is that after five years of marriage their 
husbands seems to have lost all affection for them and are 
hovering around other women. 


In many of these cases, I have found that Venus had started 
to slow down in their husband's charts after a year or two of 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 81 


marriage and then had turned retrograde. Perhaps you might 
think that the man would not run after other women, but he 
usually does so for a while. At first, he blames his lack of 
interest in his wife on his her; and it is common to hear him 
say that his wife does not stimulate him as she once did. So 
he goes after other women. Fora short time, he may find that 
he is more potent. Then comes the awakening — he finds that 
he is as impotent with his girl-friend as he has been with his 
wife; so he tries another woman, but it ends the same way as 
Venus slows down more and more. I am not theorising, I cite 
it from actual cases by that time, his wife has divorced him, 
or is about to divorce him. She is glad to let another woman 
have him. 


The man himself becomes completely bewildered over his 
condition, and I know of several cases where the men have 
taken to numbing themselve with alcohol or drugs. Others 
become vicious. 


On the other hand, men who were born when Venus was 
retrograde for several weeks before their birth will find Venus 
turning direct perhaps in their thirties. A peculiar thing at 
this time seems to motivate them to seek other marriage 
partners as the direct movements of Venus commences. To 
me, this indicates a complete change of the personality; and 
the woman with whom they were satisfied during the 
retrograde phase seems inadequate for them after Venus has 
turned direct in their charts. 


The commonly accepted reason for marriage is the 
propagation of the species and any deviation from this line is 
frowned upon by the society. But one wonders sometimes 
why the harmless types of deviates are treated cruelly at times. 
Of course, I do not believe that they should ever be married. 
But why does retrograde Venus produce this type of 
personality? Psychiatrists who have delved into the problem 
believe that something happens before the birth which gives 
the person the type of mind different from his (her) physical 


82 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


characteristics. But again, when Venus turns direct in the 
person's horoscope why does the person assume a personality 
consistent with his physical appearance ? Why does the man 
change his personality to that of the opposite sex when Venus 
starts to retrograde in his horoscope ? 


I know one man to whom the above happened when he 
was in his late forties. Another had it happen to him in his 
early thirties, and still another in his late twenties. All were 
absolutely potent in their earlier years. All are looking for the 
fountain of youth and are falling prey to every peddler of 
"vitality" pills. Dozens of bottles of these pills have done them 
no good to date. Some doctors claim to have helped them 
with hormone injections; but I have never seen any who was 
in any way helped by the treatment permanently. I suspect 
that those who were temporarily helped reacted 
psychologically, which like hypnosis wore off in time. 


Summing up, I might say that it makes little difference in 
which sign the retrograde Venus is found. All signs seem to 
work alike. 


The degree of deviation seems to depend on the aspects 
in the horoscope. It is only the violent type which gets in the 
newspaper. The violent type would be violent anyway, even 
without retrograde Venus; but he would take other forms of 
action. 


In the aspects, Neptune and Uranus cause most of the 
troubles. Saturn and Mars, particularly Mars, in adverse 
aspects to the retrograding Venus are usually found in the 
charts of those using violent methods to satisfy their desires. 


As a rule, only wives are witnesses to perverted acts and 
seldom tell anyone untill they can bear it any more. They 
would not tell me in many cases I had not pointed out this 
personality fault to them. They usually give other reasons for 
their marital troubles. You seldom hear about the reasons in 
the divorce courts. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 83 


Often a father and his eldest son will have Venus 
retrograde in their horoscopes. 


I strongly urge all students and practitioners of astrology 
to give deep consideration to what is written here. It is a 
"touchy" subject, and no judgment should be made unless 
one is absolutely sure of the birth date of the person whose 
horoscope is being delineated. A different year than the right 
one is not likely to show Venus retrograding to the same day. 
I have been given birth dates of husbands by wives who 
claimed deviation in their husbands and the dates given 
showed no retrograde Venus. This always raised a doubt in 
my mind to the justifiability of the accusation. 


There are too many known deviates who have this 
retrograde Venus, lay the cause to mere coincidence. Twenty- 
five years of careful research and hundreds of such cases have 
convinced me that the retrograde Venus is significant and is 
the cause of most of the marital discords — likewise, retrograde 
Mars is in the case of women. 


I can tell some weird and sordid stories told me by wives, 
but they would be too lewd to appear in print. So I would let 
others to find them out for themselves and I am sure they 
will if they study the results of these two planets (Mars and 
Venus) when retrograde in the natal charts or when they by 
progession turn retrograde. 


But bear in mind that each individual reacts in a different 
manner, according to the other planetary aspects in his or her 
horoscope. 


9] 


Hints for Would-be Brides 


In real life, the fortunate woman is the one who knows 
how to single out the right man for her and then put heart 
and soul into building a strong, ecstatic love. So if you have 
definite ideas about the kind of mate you want, good for you — 
provided your ideas are based upon a knowledge of your own inner 
nature. 


Even so, knowing yourself is only the first step. The thing 
to do 1s to start at the point when you realise you are attracted 
towards a certain person who shows signs of liking you. The 
next step—before falling too deeply in love—is to decide 
whether or not he might be "Mr. Right." How are you going 
to judge? How much penetrating is your insight into the 
mysteries of love. 


Falling in love by the sense is natural —and wise, up toa 
point. The senses should never be ignored, but they should 
not have all the say either. Love is not a thing apart from the 
stress and strain of daily life. Love is one out of a number of 
psychic urges in a psychic whole, as the heart is only one of a 
number of physical organs in a physical whole. No matter 
how strong love may be at the start, how can it thrive and 
survive the years if it is surrounded with gnawing hungers 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 85 


that claim most of your attention? If you set love apart from 
your psychic (deeply rooted) urges and thereby force it to go 
on by itself, short of a miracle, it will starve, grow puny, be 
crowded, clear out. 


There are numerous psychic urges. The desire for security 
is one. There are the urges to create, to have children, to bea 
leader in a community or business and the urge for the 
companionship of friends. As far friends, now and then you 
find a woman who can forsake all others and be happy living 
a wither-thou-goest sort of life. But no woman with strong 
social urges could possibly find happiness under such 
conditions. It all boils down to the strength and intensity of a 
given urge. What is important to you may be quite 
inconsequential to another and vice versa. 


SECURITY — If you are the carefree type, you give very 
little consideration to security in the usual sense of the word. 
But are you certain you are really carefree? Or is it only that 
you are young and your knowledge of yourself is incomplete? 
Of course, age itself does not necessarily bring wisdom; senior 
citizens, too, sometimes start a marriage with a roar and end 
it with a whisper. They, too, may be handicapped by an 
incomplete knowledge of themselves. The strength of the 
desire for security ranges from intermittent twinges (even the 
care-free are subject to these) to an obsession that dominates 
the life. If Saturn is noticeably strong in your horoscope, it 
indicates you are far from being a carefree type. The desire 
for security of one kind or another will always be with you. 


If your Saturn is in your 4th house, you will probably 
starve to have own home. In this case, if you marry a man 
who hates the responsibilities and duties that go with home 
ownership, one of you is going to be unhappy. How could it 
be otherwise ? 

If Saturn is in your 2nd house, your idea of 


security may be possession of a "nest egg" to carry you 
through troublesome periods. Without it, you will 


86 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


feel as if you are living on the edge of a slippery precipice. 
The slightest wind of adversity could drive you frantic, and 
you would do well to face the fact that an optimist who 
believes in living up today and letting tomorrow take care of 
itself just cannot be the mate for you. 


With Saturn in your 10th house you are very likely to 
crave for an established position in the community. If you 
marry a man with a gypsy's itch to move from place to place 
(or one whose vocation requires it), one of you is slated to be 
miserable. Since misery and happiness simply cannot travel 
hand in hand and in the end you both would be miserable. 


Looking at it the other way, let us say you do not havea 
strong Saturn and you truly are the carefree type. Then it 
becomes important to think twice before you lean too far 
towards a man who has a strong Saturn. You wanting to go 
with the breeze, he wanting to put down roots, love is much 
likely to get lost in the scuffle. It is just such conflicting desires 
as these that break up marriages and swell the divorce rate. 
Each year thousands of men and women go into courts for 
divorces. In addition, hundreds of thousands merely think 
about divorce and go on living unhappily ever after. 


Fortunately for us, it is not a case of finding a mate who 
has exactly the same urges as we have rather it is more a case 
of finding someone whose strongest urge does not conflict 
with ours. This requires some delving beneath the surface 
because during the "romantic" years, the years when you are 
a mate (regardless of your own or your prospective mate's 
age), personalities are more or less distorted. It is as if the 
basic urges are under a bit of anaesthesia. When it vanishes 
off and the true temperament emerges, you won't want to be 
one of those who say (correctly) that "he is not at all like that 
I thought of." 


Granting that you have found that your urges 
do not conflict, the next step is to determine whether or not 
each of you has it in you to goon from there—to understand, 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 87 


sympathise with and respect the other's urges. Taurus, Virgo, 
and Capricorn are practical, earthy, possession loving signs. 
Although signs do not show the basic urges but they do map 
people's point of views, their approach to life and their ways 
of doing things. 

Ambitious Capricorn, for instance cannot sneer at or be 
little financial security, even when his or her strongest desires 
lie in a totally different direction. Capricorn may or may not 
have the gypsy's itch. It is a ‘movable’ sign, but the Capricorn 
signature may very well stand for movement towards 
establishing a desirable position in the commmunity. 


Those born in the sign Cancer like nothing better than a 
permanent base. Moon ruled people are also natural home 
lovers, but being anchored in the same home from down 
payment to payoff is usually not for them. Such fixity is a 
Taurean quality. A Taurean loves to have and to hold — 
whether it is a house, a bank account or some other tangible 
possession. 


COMPANIONSHIP - There are several types of 
companionships. First, there is companionship in the hhome— 
rarer than you might think. Many husbands and wives do 
not have it. They may be "nice" to each other, but true 
companionship is much more than this. It is above-and- 
beyond intimacy that comes with sympathetically shared 
experiences (half of which may necessarily have to be shared 
through the telling) the interchange of ideas and ideals and a 
respect for each other's "differences." However, if the ideas 
and ideals of you and your chosen mate are too widely 
different, there is more likely to be wariness and reservedness 
than the warmth of companionship between both of you. 


The 4ht house of your horoscope outlines the type of 
problems you may have to run up against whenever you share 
a roof with someone else, be it with a friend, your family or 
your husband. Ifyou do not have afflictions to your 4th house, 
your under-the-same-roof problems will be trifling. If possible 


88 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


discord is indicated, you are in front of those who do not know 
their own horoscopes because you will be forewarned and, 
therefore will be in a position to prevent discord from rearing 
its ugly face. 

The thirst for companionship outside the home is quite 
different from the desire for companionship at home. If your 
Venus, which rules the social urge, is ina key position in your 
horoscope, you are scarcely apt to be the fireside type. True, 
Venus does not map the gad about complex, but it does point 
out a nature that seldom blooms without the fertilisation of 
frequent and pleasant social contacts. If you marry a fireside- 
and-slipper man who squirms when you have company, who 
ducks visiting and other social activities how can you keep 
the gay, flowering warmth that probably attracted him 
initially ? You know what happens to flowers that bloom in 
a vase—they wilt before their appointed time. 


It is not necessary to hold out for a husband who also has 
a powerful Venus. In fact, such a combination might prompt 
a dizzy whirl of social activities that leaves no vital energy 
for the sterner side of life. Gemini, Libra and Aquarius (in 
order of their importance) are breeezy, social-minded, 
companionship loving signs. They will go along with your 
Venus and love it, but they will also keep their eyes on other 
things. Mars and Neptune are social in a different way. They 
do not exactly give a burning desire for companionship as 
such, but both like plentiful contact with others. Live-wire 
Mars is happier when on the go and dominating and fanciful 
Neptune enjoys an audience. 


Finally, an extra word of caution is in order, since Venus 
so dearly loves beauty. On judging appearances, take a lesson 
from the merchants. They have found that shoppers reach 
for attractive packages, but they do not stay with a brand 
when the merchandise does not match the package. It is what 
is inside that counts in the long run — and marriage 1s a long run 
project. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 89 


LEADERSHIP — A powerful Sun indicates a desire to be 
a shining light, a leader. There could be danger in this. You 
might find yourself trying to wear the pants, and a man with 
gumption won't permit it. Anyhow, you could not keep on 
loving him if he did, because you cannot respect the "Casper 
Milquetoast" type. The most logical mate for you 1s someone 
of your own level—one who also has a prominent Sun or a 
strong Leo influence. He will need a strong ego for two 
reasons: to avoid and resist knuckling under and to 
understand your particular need to shine. 


There is usually a special sympathetic response between 
"executive" types, provided they are not in competition. 
Admittedly, competition is the life of trade, but it is a king- 
size disaster in marriage. Leadership is a quality best exercised 
outside the home. Then its fruits can give a mutual joy, a heart 
warming pride in each other. 


A concrete statement of how you could achieve this is not 
feasible without your individual horoscope, but there are 
numerous standard outlets for any wife. You could become 
the head of an enjoyable neighbourhood clique, but it takes 
real leadership to keep such a clique enjoyable and 
constructive. You could dig in and become a leader in civic, 
church or social affairs, in youth movements or betterment 
programmes. If you plan to be a working wife, there are 
supervisory jobs on every vocational level. 


However, in choosing your outlet, remember it is only an 
outlet, a secondary thing in relation to your husband. 
Naturally, it should be of a nature that creates no conflict 
between both of you. The whole purpose of the outlet is to 
remove conflict, to strengthen and cement the love between 
you. When you get right down to it, creating a happy marriage 
(even when you have chosen the right mate) is just about the 
greatest challenge there is and brings the greatest 
fulfilment. 


90 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


FREEDOM — If Uranus is the strongest influence in your 
horoscope, you are likely to have a don't-fence-me-in complex. 
Your opposite, a strong Saturn, dots on sturdy, protective 
fences; so you two are not made for each other. There is a 
common belief that "opposites" get along well in marriage. 
This obviously cannot be true when this oppositeness involves 
the strongest planetary insticts and by its very nature is also 
antagonistic. 


When it comes to personal relationships, Uranus and 
Venus, for example, are opposites. But they are not 
antagonistic. Let me say your powerful Uranus gives you so 
much independence that it is difficult for you to feel close to 
others. You can be the loneliest person in the world, even when 
you are with your loved one. In contrast, a Venus nature gives 
out warmth, clings closely, melts impersonality and creates a 
feeling of togetherness. 


As a Uranian, you are not the easiest person in the world 
to live with. When one of your unpredictable enthusiasm 
erupts, you are all for jumping overboard without furtherado. 
A husband with similar traits is not the answer. More than 
likely, he would have the urge to soar about the time you are 
poised to dive. You would be better off with someone who 
has a streak of practicality, a sense of timing and a reasonable 
amount of adaptability. 


The earthy signs give practicality, each ina different way. 
Anaverage Taurus native likes to stick to routine, but 1s nota 
slave to it. Too strong a Taurus influence could have a ball 
and-chain effect on you. Virgo is mutable-therefore, adaptable. 
At the same time, it is the most analytical (and critical) sign in 
the zodiac; and you might be bombarded with reasons why 
you should no do this or that. You being you, a few such cold 
water treatment could prompt you into jumping into things 
without any notice or reflection. Fortunately, it is easy to spot 
which Virgoan criticises for the sheer sport or bringing you 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 91 


down to size and which one devotes his analytical abilities 
for finding solution. 


Capricorn is the most adaptable of the earth signs. Like 
dust, Capricornians go with the wind when necessary; but 
they are always on the look out for a chance to land and settle 
down. 


The ability to get back to a solid base is sometimes 
conspicuously absent ina Uranian. Another Capricorn virtue 
is an uncanny ability to understand human weaknesses and 
strengths. When they are interested, they are sufficiently 
tactful and cunning to get around the weakness much of the 
time; and they seldom miss a chance to capitalise on the 
strengths. Uranus and Capricorn could be a good 
combination. 


ACTIVITY — Ifyours is essentially a Martian nature, you 
are not the one who likes to kick off her shoes and watch TV 
night after night. You would rather do the living things than 
merely be a spectator at the game of life. As far as you are 
concerned, life is a do-it-youself affair. 


In view of this, choosing a Pisces or Cancer mate with 
only an average Mars would be an invitation to a marginal 
nose dive. Pisces, for instance, seldom stands when he can sit 
and seldom walks when he can ride. In contrast, Aries is 
naturally active. Gemini likes to be on the go and is a good 
companion. Even though he 1s not personally active in sports, 
etc., he loves the excitement. Mercury people may or may not 
be physically active. Most of the times their activity is all 
mental. 


If perchance your Mars energy goes into creativity rather 
than physical activity, your needs are quite different. Pisces — 
the sensitive, self-sacrificing, armchair mate — might be ideal 
for you if you do not permit your temper to hust him, your 
aggressiveness to flatten him out and yourr ambitions to 
belittle him. 


92 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Although Cancerians are home bodies, they like the feel 
of a close domesticity, which creativity is not likely to give 
unless it is poured into creating beautiful home with a peaceful 
air. 


A mate witha Mars as strong as yours would be wonderful 
for the accomplishment of almost anything, provided your 
marriage does not turn into a sparring match; and it easily 
could unless you see eye to eye on almost every important 
issue. 


A Leo person could be the answer to your prayer— Mars 
energy mated to the Sun desire for glory, Leo's are not overly 
sensitive either and can take a flare-up now and then. 


ABUNDANCE — If you are an out-and-out Jupiterian 
type, you love the good things in life—and do you love to 
splurge. Not necessarily in everything, nor all the time. What 
about actual tight-fittedness ? You heartily despise it at any 
time. This is because you yourself are prone to giving out- 
giving out with money, friendliness, speech, enjoyment and 
affection. The latter may even get you into embarrassing 
situations at times—be mistaken as a search for lovers rather 
than love. 


You are not apt to find enduring happiness if you team 
up with a suspicious nature. For instance, some Scorpions 
are jealously possessive; you would do well to steer clear of 
them. Chronic jealousy is not flattering. It eats the heart out 
of one, who is riddled with it and she who is its victim. 
However, jealousy is fairly easy to detect; so do not cross all 
Scorpions off your list. They can be very faithful, sincere and 
ambitious —and they will do jobs you shrink away from. 


Men with a powerful Mercury are usually easy to talk 
things out with, and this could be a great help to you in 
distinguishing between an extravagant impulse and a true 
desire. Since strong Mercurians are not known for warmth 
and geniality, this is where you can contribute a valuable 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 93 


quality to the partnership. It is not that they are cold, only 
that they think first and feel second —and sometimes get so 
involved in mental processes that they do not get around to 
feeling unless someone else sparks them. You have within 
you enough enthusiastic warmth to do just that. 


You might get along extremely well with Aquarians. They 
are sociable, and they are as generous as you Jupiterians ina 
different sort of way. They try to help humanity en masse, 
whereas you are more interested in individuals. Each of you 
could learn from the other and have a richer life. 


PAINFUL SLIPS — The foregoing examples do not cover 
the subject of choosing a husband, but there are enough of 
them to emphasise the desirability of looking beneath and 
beyond the haunting spell of a romance-coated personality. 


Marriage is as challenging as a flying trapeze. Trapeze 
artists fly through the air with the greatest ease, but none are 
more practical than they in the choice of their partners. They 
cannot afford a slip. 


A slip of any kind is painful. Some people let many slip 
through their fingers. Others let opportunity slip through their 
fingers. But choosing a husband who will slip through your 
fingers is the most painful slip of all. 


i410] 


Memo to Marriage-minded Males 


During the past several years, transiting planets have many 
couples separated in a variety of manners. In sequence, there 
is much interest in remarriage for those who were happily 
wed before. Those whose former marital experiences were 
not particularly satisfactory look to a bright new future. 


Currently, Astrologers are helping to provide 
understandings of the personality of new contacts. The 
reactions which held a Scorpio mate prove repulsive to a 
Geminian, and on and on. Thus, consultation of a professional 
Astrologer is a wise investment. However, in the over-all blue- 
print, the following can furnish insight. 


ARIES — For pioneering, self-sufficient Arian, remarriage 
is vital for a rich, fulfilling life. Yet in this field, she does not 
rush in as one might expect. She is hesitant, almost shy; at the 
same time, she yearns for attention. Oddly, in this instance, 
she seems unable to be sure of her ground for taking the 
initiative. Possibly in her longing for love, and fearful that 
you may not be of as serious intent as she would desire, she 
may not respond to you as graciously as you expect. She is 
tired of home and would enjoy going out for a dinner. She 
likes to eat and going where there are bright lights and gaiety. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 95 


A little sentimental music might help your cause. Recently, 
life has not been easy for her. Be a pal. She thrills being at 
places where there are important people. But she shuns the 
flashy or tawdry. 


Show her personal attention, but do nothing to make her 
or yourself conspicious. Flowers are nice, but a box of candy 
is better to keep you in her mind when you are not together. 
Do not bore her with recitals of details. Results are what count 
with her. Remember that she likes to talk and that she loses 
interest if there is rote or routine. She wants things done 
exactingly, but without comment. The latest gadgets are as 
intriguing to her as to her Aries brother. 


Her honesty is as refreshing as an April shower and often 
as blunt as a tax statement. She longs for companionship and 
demands security. She is intolerant of deception or two- 
timing. You can rest assured that life with her would never 
slough into the common place or lack the unexpected. 


TAURUS — Venus, planet of love, rules Taurus. She is 
elemental in her acceptance that love is essential in her life. 
She wants to get married. If her work is such that she has few 
male contacts, she will set the goal of meeting an eligible. She 
has an extreme capacity for enjoyment. She appreciates almost 
any form of entertainment. Many things that others take for 
granted are sources of much pleasure to her. She loves friends. 
She values gifts both for the gift and for the thought. She likes 
things to be "prettied up." In all probability, she eats far too well 
to be wise. Just the same, she continues to consume candy and 
hearty calorie-filled meals. 


Never make a disparaging remark about any of her 
relatives or friends, for loyalty is the part of her fibre. A sense 
of wordly security is essential to her—"security" means real 
estate, bonds, bank accounts. Regardless of how tactful she 
may or may not be, when crossed she is so determined that 
you could make the mistake of calling her stubborn. If she 
has a pet project or club or conviction, you had better go along 


96 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


with her ideas, for she is unexcelled crusader. 


In her desire to amass money, she may often be penny- 
wise and pound-foolish, as she fosters do-it-herself measures 
with intricate saving devices that may ir. the long run be on 
the expensive side. She is an indefatiguable worker. She enjoys 
picnics and is aware of the beauties of nature, whether at the 
mountains or seashore. She has a knack for getting artistic 
angles when taking snapshots. She creates attractive flower 
arrangements and gift packages. Possibly she sings, if not, 
she is a patron of music, art or a splendid judge of plant, animal 
and food values. 


GEMINI — Don't be fooled by Geminian girls. Actually, 
they are neither helpless nor scatterbrained. They are as 
practical as vitamins, and money-minded. They are handier 
at doing minor mechanical repairs around the home than is 
the average man. They want things cheerful. Circulation is 
essential in air and in the affairs of their lives. 


Do not bore the Gemini lass with routine; yet be exacting 
and meticulous. She is ready for fun, enjoys going places, is a 
swell pal. In reality, she values both the freedom of singleness 
and also wants to get married. Do not try to pin her down to 
accounting to you. You might as well accept the fact that she 
is not to be understood. Never take her for granted. Being a 
natural flirt, she may not consider your intentions as seriously 
as you do. She is a splendid housekeeper and accomplishes 
more in less time than the average. She will not tolerate a 
griper, all of her grib talk is not to be taken too seriously. 
However, you must bea "live wire" to follow her pace. To 
her, home 1s a nice place to come home to, but not to stay in. 


Oddly, she is sentimental —not in a tenacious way, but 
rather as a matter of propriety. "To experience" is her tenet. 
That means the living of life as abundantly as possible. 
Whether or not she likes everything she experiences is 
inconsequential. What is important is that she has seen, heard 
and tasted. She has a smattering of information practically on 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 97 


any subject and with her keen wits 1s able to talk intelligently 
about nearly everything. While she may not brag about it, 
she probably is an above-average cook. Yet she is not one who 
wishes to spend too much time ina kitchen. She can keep life 
interesting for you. 


CANCER — The charming Cancerian lady is an enigma. 
Actually, her greatest desire in life is for a home of her own. 
Yet due to circumstances, fate or her own yen for more and 
more money, she perhaps works away from home. Few are 
the Cancer natives of either sex who experience the fulfilment 
they crave ina home. But despite what the past has been, the 
Cancer woman will try again for the marital line. Perhaps 
this time there will be true love. With her terrific imagination, 
she can be deluded into forgetting that the husband element, 
there is no perfection. Even being aware of it what it is, she 
will lap up flattery. 


Capable of considerable tenacity, and possibly calorie 
conscious, she is not of as rugged a constitution as one might 
believe. It is vital to her make-up to be loved. Under adoration, 
she blossoms. Kindness, sentiment and a love of growing 
things appeal to her. Like her Cancer brother, she is much 
fond of food —rich and delicious.. However, she has the will 
to diet; so, often these girls fluctuate in weight. After proving 
they can lose and getting a new wardrobe, they usually again 
succumb to the lure of food. 


Whatever be her moral tenets, they are deep rooted; and 
anything averse to them actually shocks her. 


She uses a circuitous route for attaining her goals, so do 
not be fooled into thinking she is procacious. True, she is 
willing to change her methods or her mind is such as is shown 
to be for the betterment. She has a genuine love of children. 
Often her backyard is the rendezvous for neighbourhood 
children and pets. She will take care of toddler twins when a 
next-door mother goes to the hospital for another increase of 
family. She is capable of extreme enjoyment. Encourage her 


98 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


to use her imagination in constructive outlets. 


LEO — You man can find this regal Leo lady active in 
fraternal or club circles. She is aware that her best adjustment 
is in use of her graciousness. As the queen, her benevolence 
may be radiated out to earn her honour. Like her fixed-sign 
sister, Taurus, she recognises the elemental and craves for 
another mate. However, she will be extremely cautious about 
remarriage and will consult an Astrologer for chart 
comparison. She likes things to be permanent and openly 
declares that you might be more interested in her worldly 
assets than her as a person. 


While she delights in the bright, going to gay and swanky 
places, she values financial security and is practical as an 
electric blanket. Quality and quantity are her rightful heritage. 
Let her know that she shines and is superior. Her vitality can 
stand the pace of a grand rush. But she does not compromise 
on quality. With Aquarius in her solar house of partnership, 
she is acutely group-conscious. If she considers your 
matrimonial intentions seriously, she will relinquish time so 
that you could bea grand high officer of a service club, though 
preferably of a fraternal order. She would entertain the inner 
sanctum for you ina manner befitting such an elite clique. 


She is not especially interested in being intellectual but 
prefers the limelight as hostess par excellence. For her home 
is a must, but equally important is attendance at the theatre 
and being a member of bright entertainment. To win her, take 
her to places. She is repelled by the morbid or by details or by 
a "fuddy-duddy." 

VIRGO — Virgo ladies seem to be on the one extreme or 
the other, but not on a happy middle. Natives of the first half 
of the sign are out for a husband, definitely, but with a reticent, 
coy mien and their eyes on the financial status. Those born in 
the latter degrees of Virgo have a tendency to chasteness, not 
being especially interested in marriage unless their Mars is in 
Scorpio. Whether they remarry or not apparently is of little 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 99 


concern to them. They have charm but are more or less erratic 
about using it. Of a mental turn, many of these latter-degree 
Virgoans never marry even once. 


In part, their very capability awes the male sex. The Virgo 
girl does not believe in shame, so does not hide her brain. She 
is intelligent, knows it and uses that mentality. She is prim 
and proper. She likes her good times cultured and refined. 
She enjoys the wide-open space. Practical jokes are disgusting, 
abhorrent or cheap to her. Get her away from talking shop, 
whatever her "shop" may be. She can be a clever 
conversationalist. Many are good amateur actresses. All are 
adaptable and proficient whatever they do. 


Cooking, housekeeping, darning socks, ironing shirts are 
taken for granted, though she may not particularly care for 
the chores. But she is a worker and accepts what is at hand 
that is to be done. Since she is prone to worry, keep her 
stepping and her mind on pleasure rather than problems. She 
is loyal, dependable and assumes more than her share of 
responsibilities. Do not impose on her. Her wants are frugul. 
She is discriminative and appreciative of quality, though she 
does not care for lavishness. Efficiency and attention to 
minutiae are part of her nature. Her world is as goodas her 
bond. 


_ LIBRA — In her genteel way, the Libran possibly 
glamorizes sex more than other natives of the zodiac. 
Appreciation of her artistry and of her opinions help to put 
you in good grace. This is easy to do, for an original touch 
identifies her grooming, clothing and home decor. 
Conscientiousness stamps her consideration of the pros and 
cons of any measure. 

Often these ladies give an impression of fragility, of a 
Dresden china quality. Actually, they have an extreme tenacity 
and endurance which surpass that of their more rugged sisters. 
Regardless of their station in life, they have graciousness, 
culture and value of the aesthetic. Feed this female heartily 


100 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


but not heavily. As with the other departments of her life, she 
likes her meals to be balanced. Perhaps she enjoys the 
ballet,musical comedies, waltz music, sentimental 
remembrances, Scout Courts and Honour, and wedding, 
whether or not she knows the principals. Oddly, many of them 
like to walk in the rain. They have the ability to attract the 
contacts and assets they desire. In turn, in their suave, 
charming manner, they ruthlessly and without qualms cut 
away and discard from their lives anything they dislike. 
Remember that in their own mind they always are right and 
act correctly. 


Not specially broadminded or tolerant, she will vindicate 
herself on minor details or inconsequential incidents even if 
it takes years. Objects of art intrigue her particularly in pair— 
matched vases, lamps, prints; candlesticks. She amasses and 
is a collector. The backing of a mate is essential to her 
equilibrium, though she may be an executive or in other 
capacity to make decisions. She is a splendid leader, for 
without being bossy or nagging, she magnetizes others into 
wanting to assume chores and obligations. She makes an 
exceptionally superior wife and home-maker. 


SCORPIO — Faint heart never led a Scorpio woman to 
the altar. Be positive; she will be possessive. Do not play her 
with questions or probe into other affairs further than she 
volunteers. In turn, she is a regular sleuth. She is interested in 
knowing what makes the world tick and is one who dares to 
make investigations and to visit foreign quarters. Know that 
a secret is safe with her, for she can be her own counsel. She 
enjoys rich eating. If she had been married before, she will 
make every effort for another marriage to succeed. 


Never laugh at her, though she revels in playing practical 
jokes and in telling as well as hearing hearty stories. Never 
underestimate this gal. She will tackle anything, and will 
master it. After the drubbing she has taken in the past few 
years, she is ready for fun and fulfilment. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 101 


Fixed-sign fellows of Taurus, Leo and Aquarius will build 
for greater serenity and harmony to let someone else woo 
Lady Scorpio. However, when Scorpio weds Scorpio, all can 
work out well. One has the dynamic energy to keep up with 
the other. There is mutual respect of personal privacies and 
reserves. 


She is perhaps the greatest “ who-dunnit" fan of the zodiac. 
Too, she is interested in music, medicine the alphabet bombs 
and possibly wrestling or the fights. She has an intuition that 
x-rays through insincerity. Scorpio always has a backlog of 
assets and will expect you to have the same. While she is 
sympathetic and benevolent to the underprivileged, she is 
intolerant of weaknesses in the mate. She will demand you to 
be the family provider even though she probably is skilled in 
a profession. She is aware of her own worth and will not sell 
herself. 


SAGITTARIUS — Optimism colours the Sagittarius 
woman's thinking. She believes in living abundantly, in play 
as well as work. She always is one who takes school youngsters 
to a game or other activity, not so much from a love of youth 
as of giving pleasure. Sports ofall kinds, good movies, dining 
at exclusive places, having an abundant snack at a drivein 
please her. Pettiness and miserliness have no place in her 
make-up, nor will she be bothered with others who display 
these traits. Do not try to possess her or her assets. If you 
marry her and she thinks it is for her material belongings, she 
will not hesitate to sever ties, despite love. While she will make 
great efforts for marriage to be success, she will have no brief 
in deceit. 


She is generous in attending benefit performances or sports 
contests. She will gladly entertain your family by a former 
marriage but will expect you to pick up the check when you 
are out. She will want to look after your family members, too. 
Her philosophy inclines to the acceptance of others at the value 
they place for themselves until she may find out differently. 


102 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Be thoughtful of the little things and courtesies. She is open 
minded to the new but expects the poprieties and for all to be 
done properly. 

On the average, she is not against marriage by a judge. 
She lives her particular form of religion rather than being a 
stickler for what to her are unimportant details. The over-all 
view is hers. Be a pal. If picnics, long drives, spur-of-the- 
moment fishing jaunts or the theatre are not to your liking, 
better cross her off your list. 


CAPRICORN — Ambition stamps the Capricorn female. 
Remember that she builds on firm basis. She likes to be seen 
with person and to go places which enhance her prestige. She 
enjoys attending parties and going to church and being present 
at family reunions and civic recognition banquets. Feed this 
lady substantially and often. If you have travelled, that will 
have value, as will the fact you may have ancestors who 
participated in a historic event or who were government 
officials. Let her see that you are both budget-wise and fun- 
loving. Fine wrought silverware, genuine leather and zany 
jokes attract her. 


Build up her ego. Her talents and accomplishments are 
terrifically important to her; yet she fully cease to belittle herself. 
Meanwhile, she is fully cognizant of the fact that she does excell 
in natural endowments and in expressions. If you like to have 
your own way, you had better drop her because she will have 
the final say. Once her imagination is working, she can feel as 
slighted or as mistreated as can her opposite, Cancer. She is a 
worker and superb organiser, though apt to be slightly too 
egocentric for co-workers who do not want to be "yes-men." 


Instead of, bringing her a plant. When it is candy, make it 
plentiful. Your date-bait car will have merit in her eyes, as 
will anything else that makes a showing, even though the 
finance company may be major stockholder. Red often is the 
favourite colour of Capricorn persons. She like to go camping 
and also appreciates the conveniences of a modern kitchen or 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 103 


the comfort of a stratoliner. She is allergic to moving, 
preferring to establish a permanent home in the community 
of her choice. She will relish presiding at functions beneficial 
to your position. 

AQUARIUS — If you win the Aquarian lady, you must 
be casual, non-possessive, alert to the needs of the under- 
privileged, discriminating, financially up, gallant and have a 
sense of humor. Place friendship before food. Develop fineness 
in the art of talking—both in holding up your end of the 
conversation and in allowing her to express herself. Quality 
before quantity is her motto. She may or may not be one of 
the few of her sign who eats too well, but even then she does 
not lower her standards regarding quality. 


She is appreciative of the florist's box around flowers. The 
note or poem chosen especially for her is received with full 
value to repay your efforts. In all probability, she enjoys good 
music: the opera, vocal or instrumental concerts. Do not bore 
her with routine. If she has been married before, she will 
probably marry again. While she would like to be informed 
about your background, perhaps meet your family, yet she is 
not desirous of becoming a member of a clan. She likes parties 
and people, but will prefer an occasional twosome at a 
secluded or unique place. Spontaneity delights her electric, 
mental nature. Freedom and variety appeals to her. Do not 
exhaust topics or issues. Do not pursue her, though she will 
want you to do the courting. But her interest will lag if you 
become overly insistant to your own cause. If she does accept 
your proposal, do not procrastinate in getting her to the altar. 


Marriage 1s one time therefore she desires to observe the 
proprieties, have a wedding where she is in the limelight. 
Possibly it is due to a love of drama and pageantry. While she 
is adverse to "doodads": and dust-collecting trivia, she does 
want pictures. Never ask her for an accounting of anything. 
Remember that if ever she is through with a relationship, that 
is it, period. 


104 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


PISCES — Ifa Piscean lady is interested in you, you are 
as good as married. You will find yourself being worked on; 
rather than resenting it, you will feel honoured to be so 
privileged. She is charm, feminity personified. However, she 
knows exactly what she wants and precisely how she will 
achieve her aims. Her changeableness and dilly-dallying will 
be maddening; but you will adore her for it; excusing her for 
what you would not begin to tolerate in others. She is 
extremely sentimental. However, she feels that the wealth of 
the world was created for her pleasure and that you should 
provide abundantly. 


While not especially strong physically, she is capable of 
working hard if she sees any reason for doing so. Once 
engaged, she can be miserly to save for your future home. 
However, remember sweet words, flowers on all occasions, 
possibly a dog and goldfish. She will expect to be taken to the 
best restaurants. She enjoys her ailments or injuries. The latter 
may be a splinter or a wee cut. But you must try to make 
much of it and give her due care and sympathy. In turn, she 
will shed tears for you — though they may be only crocodile 
tears. She dotes on movies that make her weep, or on slapstick. 
If the listed attributes seem contradictory, you are so right in 
your reasoning —for this is your Pisces lady. 


Oddly, for what one might expect from her sign, she 
prefers the mountains to the seashore. Probably she enjoys 
trout fishing. However, on the average, she chooses spectator 
sports for participation. If you are invited to her home, know 
that you are favoured indeed, for her home is her castle. She 
wishes all to be her friends, but only a select few receive the 
hospitality at her home. With her, sentiment continues after 
the "I do's." Her vivid imagination aids in keeping life 
intriguing if unpredictable. She will be a griacious hostess to 
your business associates as well as personal friends. 


For Brides Only 


Let me whisper a word in your ear, a secret important to 
you, for your entire married life and containing the basis of 
all your future happiness. You have married a man, and that 
word man contains meanings and implications of which you 
are as yet totally unaware. It will take you a lifetime to learn 
the meaning of man. 


In your former maidenly association with him, you 
probably thought a man is somewhat like a woman, with a 
few differences. This is true upto a point. He is_ physically 
more active and impulsive; but he is built on approximately 
the same pattern, with two arms and two legs, similar eyes, 
nose and mouth; he eats the same kind of food and uses the 
same words when speaking. 


Outwardly, he appears to be more or less similar to you; 
but the resemblance stops right there. Underneath the surface, 
deeper in his real character and temperament, there are major 
differences which can partly reveal themselves to you as time 
goes on. The astrological charts symbolise the contrast 
between both of you. The fire sign Aries portrays man's 
aggressiveness in action; the air sign Libra, standing 
diametrically opposite, portrays your own feminine flexibility 


106 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


and powers of adjustment. The two signs, dynamic and 
harmonic, oppose each other, the union of the two being that 
conflict in harmony which is the basis of all creation in Nature 
and in life. 


A little example shows this clearly. Look at your two 
hands; they are built on exactly the sarne pattern; thumb, 
fingers, palm and so on. Lay your right hand on the table and 
draw a light pencil line arount it. Now try to fit your left hand 
in that pattern. It cannot be done; but put them palm to palm, 
with the two hands facing in opposite directions, and the 
hands match exactly. In this, you can easily see the similarity 
of opposite poles that is the relationship between a woman 
and a man. 


If you had been a bride centuries ago, the first time you 
saw your husband would be at the wedding. When he would 
have removed your veil, your expectant eyes might see a 
Prince Charming or a fat, ugly old man. Your happiness was 
not considered; you had no choice. Consequently, you had 
no responsibility for what happened after marriage except to 
follow your husband's orders. 


As a bride of today, you have made your own choice. Of 
all the men in the world —the tall and the short, the bright 
and the dull, the eager and the lazy, the trained and the 
unskilled — you have selected the man to, love and cherish for 
as long as you both do live, as he has promised to love and 
cherish you. 

This puts a greater responsibility upon you. As a modern 
wife, you must, of course, make a nice home in respect of 
comfort, food and all the other standard requirements of 
living. You will make your home a place of contentment and 
happiness for yourself, your husband and your family. 


But over and above all this, you have an even greater 
obligation. You must really understand your hushand and 
the inner meaning of his nature. Without this, many of your 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 107 


other works and efforts may be wasted; you would have a 
house and living place but not a true home. It is only when 
you become aware of his masculine qualities and discern the 
elements making him the man that he is, that you will be able 
to form a true home, a family unit bonded in love and affection 
that will last through the long future years, you will be 
together. 


You have a large-scale job to understand this man who 
play such a leading part in your life. This is not like a school 
course lasting a few months or a year. Fifty years from now, 
you will sometimes look at him, wondering why he acts the 
way he does. He is far more intricate and different from you 
than you realise; so put your mind to the job and try not to 
decide any point about him too quickly until you have had 
time to think, check and observe. 


Man in general is peculiar blend of imagination, childlike 
naivete and an aggressive desire to dominate. He is calm and 
strong, yet capable of throwing everything overboard in 
search of some visionary idea that you might class as 
foolhardy. Man has invented the wheel and the level the 
machine and the cybernetic brain. He has overrun the world, 
from continents apart to make the canals and dams he desires, 
climbed the highest mountains at the risk of his life and 
plumbed the depth of the sea. 


Now he is in the process of tearing the very foundation of 
Nature itself apart, the atom, and mending it to his will. 
Nothing in Nature withstands man's desire, and there is no 
limit to what he will accomplish in the years and centuries to 
come. Man is cooling dove and a bundle of dynamite wrapped 
in one vital packing. 

Your husband is one of these men; and your efforts to 
understand the deeper meaning of his nature, recognise that 
there are three major levels for you to consider. Let us take 
each one of these levels in order, so as to simplify the pattern 
for you. 


108 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


The first level which you must consider for his nature is 
that of his natal zodiacal sign, with the various elements of 
mind, emotions, passions, restraints, working skills and other 
idications shown in this natal chart. Because of space, it is not 
possible to list the qualities of the various signs and aspects 
here; in any case, you can read about them in more detail in 
the other chapters of this book. 


His birth-sign qualities from the apparent level of his 
nature as a whole. It is this sign which determines his 
education, his working job and earning power, the general 
pattern of his health and physical well-being and a large part 
of his affectionate response to you. It includes his early training 
and the qualities derived from his parents and family. The 
various birth-signs, the positions of planets and the aspects 
among them form the man as you generally know and see. 


It is most important that you know your husband's birth 
sign and the different mental, emotional, practical and other 
qualities contained therein, as it is on this level that you will 
have about three-quarters of your ordinary dealings and 
maintain your relationship with him. This is the side to which 
he responds as long as things go approximately the way he 
wants, in his association with you, in his work and income, 
his practical activities, hobbies and pleasures. Know and study 
carefully this side of your husband; on it rests a large part of 
your happiness together. 


But note this, after a time, your new husband is going to 
say or do something taking you completely by surprise. It 
may be he will want to throw up his safe job to take a new, 
risky one or move to a remote part of the country where you 
have no friends. Whatever it is, you will be shocked and 
astounded, wondering just what sort of man it is you have 
married. You may even think that you have made a mistake, 
that you have been deceived by him. 


This will be a critical period for you. If you become either 
tearful or angry and argumentative, you will be able to settle 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 109 


the question between you in one way or another. But if you 
stop and think, you will realise that your husband is revealing 
a new aspect of himself, a second and unexpected level of his 
nature that so far had been hidden deeply within. If you now 
make the effort to understand this level of his nature, you 
will become much sympathetic to him, forming your marriage 
bonds more stronger and more harmonious. 


Your husband will be responding, broadly speaking, to 
one of the major planetary groups. Astrologically, these are 
classed as the planetary ruler; of these, there are eight. These 
are the Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, 
Uranus. There is a ninth the Neptunian; but the true Neptune 
man is rare and so exceptional in himself that no woman could 
or would want to live with him. 


The Sun man is proudy, superior and dominant, ever 
desirous of being the leader and in the forefront of things. 
His enthusiasm and personal magetism cause almost everyone 
to like him and defer to him; so they follow his leadership 
whether it is in business, politics, military life, sports or games. 


Having a great store of vitality, he is healthy; if he ever 
falls ill, he recuperates quickly. This vitality manifests itself 
in all he does, and he has little regard of sympathy for those 
weaker than himself. He can be tolerant and paternal to those 
in need, but not if it is too much trouble. He prefers to keep 
moving ahead to new and bigger goals, spurred on by his 
powerful ambition. 


If you are married to the Sun man, see that his home is as 
rich looking as possible, filled with life and colour. You also must 
always be full of life and colour, looking your best, praising and 
flattering him, ever ready to maintain your position at his side 
as queen to his king. Support his ego, supply him with that 
affectionate warmth that contributes to his self confidence. 

Don't ever fall behind or you will find yourself alone, but 
if you can know and keep in step with your Sun husband, he 
will carry you to the heights of power. 


110 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


The Moon man is combination of lethargy and 
restlessness. In many ways, he is content to take things as 
they come, satisfied with the same meals, clothes and other 
things he has had before. Yet he may suddenly want to move, 
take a trip, change his residence, meet new people; he may 
release this restlessness by moving his hands and feet, talking 
from one subject to another, puttering with a series of 
apparently useless jobs. 


Though many of his activities may appear aimless, the 
Moon man is deeply intuitive. Almost everything he does is 
for some ultimate purpose, whether he is consciously aware 
of it or not. His intuition is of great power when dealing with 
other people; he often knows what they are thinking, or about 
to do, before they know themselves. He is apt to understand 
you better than you do him. 


For the Moon man, you will need to be not only his wife, 
but a mother too as well. Personal contentment and ease of 
living are very necessary for his physical health and mental 
well-being. Whenever he is discouraged, find a new interest 
for him; keep him out of a rut. Always let him know that no 
matter how harsh the world may apear to his sensitive nature, 
he will always find a loving heaven at home where he can 
rest and recuperate his inner forces. Direct him to an 
occupation allowing an outlet for his restlessness, where he 
can meet and talk to many people. Affection is very necessary 
for him. When you really understand your Moon husband, 
you can achieve a mutual sympathy known to none of the 
other groups. 


The Mercury man lives in and through his nervous 
system. Having an intensely active mind, he is continually 
thinking, weighing, judging and learning something. 
Quick in speech, alert in ideas, he is never at a loss for an 
opinion, no matter how complicated the subject may be. His 
occupation will probably be an intellectual one — teaching or 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 111 


writing, accountancy or science or something else using his 
mind. 


Be aware that your Mercurian husband's health is closely 
bound with his peace of mind. Ill health can cause him to 
worry and fret, while the pressure of problems could make 
him physically ill. Whenever he is unwell, always look to see 
if some problem is disturbing him. 


To keep up with a Mercurian husband, you must stay 
mentally awake. Be ready to play bridge, attend meeting or 
follow whatever other activities interest him. More important 
still, aim to learn a subject on your own account; know all 
about cooking, join the school board or learn drawing and 
painting so he will respect you not only as his wife, but also 
as a capable person in your own right. He may not always be 
dependable in little things; but if you keep up with his keen 
mind, you can lead a highly interesting life. 


The Venus man responds only to the pleasant side of 
things. His nature is built on beauty and harmony, and he 
seeks this in almost every sphere of his life. He always dresses 
neatly, in the latest styles and colours that match. He will go 
out of his way to avoid conflict and argument, which he 
considers ugly; but he searches for beautiful women, colour, 
music and harmony in all things. He can be a charming 
husband, friend and associate, but can suddenly become either 
angry or quiet and withdrawn if his rather delicate feelings 
are disturbed. 


Married to a Venusian man, you must be completely 
feminine at all times. Never criticise, quarrel or disagree with 
him; but this does not mean that you must submit. Learn how 
to guide him firmly but gently. He will not succeed in any 
working occupation unless it pleases him and in some way 
uses his artistic, sympathetic and emotional qualities. If you 
really understand yourself, you will have to understand him 
and will then be able to make your marriage one of tenderness 
and mutual harmony. 


112 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


The Mars man is filled with physical energy. Vigorous 
and active, he keeps going at something, anything, as long as 
it keeps him busy and uses his surplus energy. Rarely 
downcast, never despondent, he looks to the future with 
complete assurance and can fight his way through. 


Yet he is impulsive, acting before he thinks; and this means 
a job for you. Aim to keep your thoughts one jump ahead of 
his so that the minute he finishes one job you have another 
waiting, one that leads him toa constructive goal. Never flatter 
him, but always praise real results. Set high standards for both 
of you, so his work will be of personal, family financial and 
social benefit. With him, you will have to be on your mental 
toes every second; life will not be peaceful, but it will be 
exciting and as dramatic as you wish. With him, never look 
back, look only to the future. 


The Jupiter man is invariably lucky—in business, with 
money and people. Good fortune and opportunities come his 
way, often without his working for them. Because of:-this, he 
often tends to take his luck for granted, sure that future will 
be even better than the past. However, life does not always 
work out this way. As his wife, you should see that no matter 
how fast he is moving ahead, you are lying aside a backlog of 
assets aS insurance against the future. 


With him, always be cheerful and hopeful, and with a 
sound and practical judgement. Occasionally, you may need 
to guide his impulses and control his carelessness with money. 
Yet if you can absorb some of the cheerful self-confidence of 
your Jupiterian husand,you will strengthen and enlarge your 
own nature and will be much more capable of controlling 
and overcoming whatever circumstances life brings to you in 
the years to come. 


The Saturn man is, above all things, practical, slow and 
steady, quiet and coservative, he changes little from day to 
day or year to year. There can be times when his quiet disturbs 
you and you feel you would like him to show more energy 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 113 


and fire. Never forget that the fire is there, but it is controlled 
like a banked furnace which burns slowly and steadily for a 
long time without burning out in a short burst of heat. 


You may miss some excitement, but you can rely ona 
Saturnian husband for long years; he will never let you down. 
Deep within and hidden from the world is a tendency to 
melancholy. Whenever he is unusually quiet, you will know 
he is disturbed about something; so do your best to encourage 
and support him. Though he may never say so, he needs your 
support. 


He is practical man, planning his life step by step and 
following them one by one to the end. His pleasure lies in 
work. In time, he is sure to rise slowly to a position of 
responsibility. You can put all your troubles on his shoulders. 
Though your life with him may not be adventurous, it will be 
dependable. The longer you are with him, the more you will 
respect and love his admirable qualities of strength and 
continuity of purpose. 


The Uranus man is rather erratic, impulsive, idealistic, 
hopeful, always looking to the future, he is apt to devote his 
time, energy and money to some idea that might turn out to 
be crazy in the eyes of others or an exceptional invention that 
dramatically changes a major segment of our life and living 
standards. It is Uranian men who have wasted their time on 
uséless perpetual motion and who also have produced the 
remarkable new inventions of our times. 


True Uranus men are not common; but if you are married 
to one, it may consume your years or decades to find out his 
true qualities. All you can do is to wait, have faith in him and 
trust in the future. He is searching to fulfil some ideal—and, 
in fact he may find it. In the meantime, look after him like a 
baby, manage his money, cheer him through failure or success, 
cherish him, devote your life to him; he is a major 
responsibility placed in your care. He is a visionary; he might 
be a genius; you must be the sound foundation upon which 


114 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


his vision can rest and be responsive to earthly reality. 


In nearly every phase of his life, your husband primarily 
responds to his natal zodiacal sign, whichever it may be. 
Behind this, equally and perhaps more important, lies his 
dominant planetary ruler, which is his inner guide and 
stimulus. 


Yet behind these lies still a third level of his nature. This 
level is not that of him as a personality, but as a man, on the 
male side of the human family. 


No matter what sort of person your husband may be — 
whether he is calm or impulsive, materialistic or intellectual, 
a business man or a scientist — deep within him lie present 
the basic male qualities of aggression, violence, ruthlessness 
and anger, as well as the constructive forces of ambition, 
imagination, creativeness and high idealism. You only have 
to know some of the events of war or read the papers in peace 
to be aware of the tremendous heights of accomplishment 
and self-sacrifice to which some of the most apparently 
peaceful men can rise in time of stress. 


Man is capable of literally anything, from dealing with 
the infinitely small electron to flying incomprehensible speeds 
through the air. Now having landed on the Moon, man is 
daring to conquer outer space itself. Nearly anythings man 
sets his mind to, he can do. 


Your husband is one of these men; and no matter what he 
may appear to be outwardly, he is potentially capable of the 
most dynamic expression, creative and otherwise. Our 
modern industrial life, the pressures of living, early training 
and personal inclination all combine to hide and repress a 
major part of these forces. Law and religion help to guide 
these wild and elemental qualities into constructive channels. 
Yet, as his wife, you would be wise never to forget that they 
are with him; waiting to burst through to the surface when 
the right stimulus presents itself. What stimulus would trigger 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 115 


your hushand's own forces no one knows, not even himself, 
yet there is one for him as there is for all men. 


Man is manifestation of the vital force springing from the 
dynamic sign Aries. Woman has her source in the balancing 
Libra, making her man's civilizing and harmonising 
counterpart. As your two hands match exactly yet are 
opposite, so you and your husband match in reverse polarity. 


As a woman, it is your duty, your responsibility and glory 
to guide him so that you develop his positive and creative 
qualities to the full. To do this, you must know and thoroughly 
understand him, not only superficially, but to the very depths 
of his character and temperament as well. 


As a bride, be aware that you have a major job in your 
hands lasting long years into the future. Tackle it with high 
courage and confidence and with intelligence as well; then 
hand in hand, you both can enter a future bright with promise. 


For Bridegrooms Only 


Allow me to congratulate you on your marriage to the 
girl of your choice and to extend my best wishes for your 
personal happiness. 

Leaving behind the free and irresponsible years of 
bachelorhood, you are now at a major turing point in your 
life. You are assuming responsibility for the life and welfare 
of another person, a woman; together, you are entering a 
future which will bring many duties and opportunities, 
obligations and potentialities in the years to come. 


Some of these will be onerous and even a source of worry; 
others will be a source of great joy. Yet you are a man, fully 
prepared to accept your share of the duties of life. You do not 
expect life to be all "bear and skittles." You wish to enjoy life 
to the full and ready to meet the events of the future with 
eager courage. 


Your marriage will heighten your perceptions and surface 
every element of your character. The twelve basic qualities of 
life, represented by the zodiacal signs, will be intensified and 
raised to a much higher pitch of action and expression within 
you. Now, on the threshold of your new life, it is time for you 
to consider these signs and the twelve rules for marriage. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 117 


So you can meet the events of life as a man and not merely 
yield to them like the child you have been in the past. 


Here are the twelve basic zodiacal rules for a constructive, 
creative and happy life for you and your bride. 


The Aries Rule ; Be yourselfwith due restraint 


You were born with your own temperament. Perhaps you 
are restless, prefer fast colours, yet are very cautious with 
money. Whatever your qualities may be, you are yourself and 
upto now have been free to respond to your own inclinations. 
Now you have a wife, and you must recognise that she also 
has her own temperament. She also has been free to respond 
to her own inclinations. 


Living together, personal differences will quickly reveal 
themselves. Some of these will be minor, other major. Neither 
of you should insist on your own way; that will hurt the other. 
Neither should yield completely; that will create a lasting inner 
disappointment. 


Learn to guide your impulses, inclinations and desires so 
that you can fulfil them reasonably and leave room for the 
fulfilment of her desires also. If you always insist on your 
own way, you are setting up a condition that might wreck 
your marriage. For example, if you prefer a vacation in the 
woods and your wife wants the seashore, find a lake near the 
woods which allows each of you to enjoy yourselves in your 
own way. 


Adjusting your wishes to hers and still finding 
gratification, is the key to successful marriage. When each of 
you learn this, you will have gone a long way towards mutual 
harmony. 

The Taurus Rule : Workfor your living. 

This may appear to be an obvious rule, but it is not as 
obvious as you may think. It means not only earning money, 
but also how you earn it and what you do with it. 


118 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


You must find an occupation suitable to your 
temperament and training, one that enables you to earn an 
honest living for your family. Your wife may like the idea of 
wealth, but she will not insist on it if you are happy in work 
providing necessities and reasonable luxuries. 


Do not insist on spending all the money yourself, 
supervising every outlay. Your wife is as capable as you are 
in spending money —perhaps more so! Lay aside a due 
proportion of funds for such matters as taxes, insurance, food, 
clothing and saving for the future. Then see that each of you 
have a sum to spend purely for pleasure, without accounting 
or explanation. If you spend on smoking, beer or betting, let 
her squander something on perfume or other frills without 
arguing for it. 

Arrange mutually satisfactory basis for handling money 
right at the start. Then stick on to it. This not only helps you 
to stay out of debt, but also eliminates a source of conflict that 
has disrupted many otherwise happy marriages. 


The Gemini Rule : Think intelligently. 


You were born with a brain; use it! A major part of the 
problems of life are caused by men responding purely to 
impulse. Ifa man acts without any thought of consequences; 
then he, and sometimes someone else have to pay the price. 


You are going to face many questions —some troubling, 
others about opportunity for progress. Before deciding, always 
take time to think, study and weigh one answer against the 
other. Talk over things with your wife for her point of view; 
she will often see points you may have ignored or overlooked. 
Come to a mutually agreeable decision and you will have a 
double chance of being right. 


Man is the only known being in the universe with intellect, 
so do not waste your precious hours hypnotised before a TV 
screen. Read the books to broaden your understanding. 
Continue to study, both in your occupation and for your 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 119 


general education. Develop new ideas which may be 
profitable in business. Listen to others and learn. Practice the 
ability to speak clearly and to the point; you may later use 
this in business, political, social and other activities. 


Without knowledge, man is only a workhorse. Your brain 
is infinitely more valuable than either your muscles or your 
money, so use it profitably. 


The Cancer Rule : Make a good home. 


Your home 1s going to be the basis of all your future family 
life. Decide with your wife whéther to live in the city, a small 
town or the country; whether on rent or to buy. Talk 
everything over so you both will be contented. 


Your wife will spend much more time at home than you; 
so let her have the last word as to the kitchen, workroom and 
various utilities she will use. If she wants fancy curtains and 
you want an ugly but comfortable chair, have both. Give to 
her such point and she will yield to you. Never mind whether 
decorations are or not of latest fashion; fashions change, but 
you and your family will go on through the years. 


Watch home finances; do not become a slave to mortgage 
payments, taxes and other outlays. You will be doing right if 
you get a home as good as you can afford at as cheap a price 
as you can find. When planning a home, think of an increasing 
family, job prospects, future resale value, the general location, 
your nearness to friends and relatives, and so on. 


A home is not merely a residence. It is the place where, 
after facing the hurly-burly of the external world, you return 
to relax, recuperate and rebuild your energies. It is the centre 
of your wife's existence, but you should have a hobby room 
of your own. Aim to make a home that puts family comfort 
and harmony ahead of wordly show. 

The Leo Rule : Guide your children. 


Children will be a major problem and a major joy to you, 
perhaps both at the same time. While raising children, never 


120 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


forget one point : you were a child yourself once. You, thus, 
owe a debt to your own parents, which you will repay by 
rearing your own children. 

You must raise them to be healthy and wholesome, ready 
and able to lead constructive lives of their own. You cannot 
leave their training entirely to schools and teachers; you must 
supervise every stage of their development. Make your home 
a centre of happiness so that children will prefer to stay close 
to you. Educate them according to their individual needs; train 
them in morals, ethics, to be honest and right thinking. When 
you are sure it is necessary, punish them with firmness. 
Support them through the problems they will meet in learning 
the meaning of life. 


If you can instill in your children love and respect for you, 
in equal parts, they will grow up to bea credit to your name. 


The Vigro Rule : Keep healthy 


You have been younger than you are today. In those earlier 
years, you had more energy and vitality, stronger powers of 
recuperation. You could eat and drink what you wanted, stay 
out late, play strenuous sports and take physical risks. 


With a future of a wife and family depending upon you, 
you cannot afford to risk yourself and your health, for their 
sake as well as your own. Therefore, watch yourself and your 
health. Eat a proper diet; have sufficient sleep and rest; relax 
with a hobby. Your body is a physical machine liable to break 
under stress; keep it healthy, keeping the long futureyears in 
mind. 

Observe the health of your wife and family. See that each 
has a regular medical check up supervise their diet, sleep and 
rest. 

Physical health needs mental health. Be sure that all family 
differences and conflicts are settled harmoniously. A healthy 
family contributes greatly toa happy family. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 121 


The Libra Rule : Know your wife is a woman 


This is complicated, and it will take you a lifetime to learn 
the whole meaning of it— if then! you may consider, without 
actually thinking about it, that a woman is like a man except 
fora few physical differences. Do not make that mistake. While 
a woman is similar to a man, at the same time she is his 
complete opposite. 


Where you are strong, she is weak; where you are weak, 
she is strong. Where you are logical, she is implusive and 
emotional. Where you are impulsive, she can be coldly logical. 
You exert; she responds. You act; she loves and absorbs. 


Your wife is your equal and your converse. If you attempt 
to treat her as if she were another man, her contrasting nature 
could turn to antipathy and even antagonism. As long as you 
treat her as a woman, the union of opposite poles can ignite 
that spark of fire which is the essence of true love. 


Being a man, you will never really understand her nature. 
All you can do is to try your best. As she will understand you 
more than you do her, you will reap the reward of her 
boundless love. 


The Scorpio Rule : Be unselfish in love 


Your wife's love nature can be compared toa piano. This 
musical instrument stands apparently soundless; yet the 
strings are constantly humming in response to every small 
vibration. Played upon, the piano answers to the touch of the 
player, producing anything from clashing discords to soft 
music to the full, rich chords of the great symphonies. 


Your wife's emotions similarly respond to every touch of 
your nature. She jangles to your careless words or deeds, 
harmonises to your affectionate attention and will reveal the 
full-toned richness of her love if you are capable of rousing 
the depths of her inner being. 


Your are the composer; she the orchestra. Your secret lies 
in being aware of her potentialities, sensitive to her feelings, 


122 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


unselfish in your desires. Discord or concord, noise or 
harmony, conflict or complete understanding —the choice is 
yours; you are the player. 


The Sagittarius Rule: Cultivate your imagination 


Your imagination 1s that elusive quality which can move 
you from the materialistic humdrum of everyday living and 
open to you the gates of fancy, inspiration and invention. 


Do not ever allow yourself to settle in a rut, either of 
thought or of action. No matter how silly some thought may 
appear to be, let your fancy roam far and wide occasionally. 
Look at the things from a different point of view; be alert to 
new ideas, receptive to some change. If you let yourself 
become mentally srodgy, your wife and everyone else may 
become bored with you. Play with thoughts sometimes, as 
you play with your hobby. 

Read books and gain ideas that may seem useless, now. 
But these will keep you alert. Who knows, out of these may come 
ideas valuable to you in practical terms. The man with an active 
imagination is never bored; life is always interesting for him. 


Physical change is necessary also. Travel sometimes to new 
scenes and places, meet new people, see how others work 
and live. Your wife will need occasional change also; explore 
at least a part of the world together. 

The Capricorn Rule : Be practical 


Be logical in relation to the materialistic elements of the 
world of action. As you cannot lift a heavy weight by wishing, 
so you cannot expect to accomplish anything in the real world 
by merely wishing, hoping, waiting for luck or the breaks to 
come your way. If you want something — such as a better job, 
more money, the respect from others, more prestige and 
authority —be ready to work for them step by step until you 
have achieved your goal. Do not expect something for nothing; 
be ready to give equal value and you will find your 
achievements are solid and lasting. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 123 


Whenever you give your word, be prepared to stand by 
it, even to your loss; men will respect you. Pay your debts. 
Expect and demand your rights, but no more. Be ready to 
face the world, secure in the knowledge of your own integrity. 
Do no wrong to any one, and let none do wrong to you. 


If you are honest with yourself, you will be honest with 
others. Your wife and the world will respect, honour and trust 
you. 


The Aquarius Rule : Be tolerant 


Every man has within him potentialities for great evil and 
great good, and this applies to you also. Man can be viciously 
selfish, yet capable of the heights of self-sacrifice; for an 
individual man, it is not always his own fault or his own virtue 
that brings one or the other to the surface. 


With a few exceptions, no man can be entirely blamed; 
nor can any man be entirely credited with whatever he may 
do. Before you condemn or praise, seek to understand the 
nature and motives of the man himself. By doing so, you will 
better understand your own strength and weaknesses. 


Be ready to protect yourself and your family from deceit 
and evil of the world. But be aware also of the good that is in 
the world; guard against intolerance and self-righteousness 
which would ultimately harm you and limit your 
understanding. 


The Pisces Rule : Have faith in yourself 


In the years to come, you will form many plans, have many 
hopes and ambitions. Some will fall by the wayside and be 
the source of disappointment. Some of your hopes will be 
fufilled, leading you on to wider horizons and greater things. 


No matter what comes your way—good, bad or 
indifferent — in the face of discouragement and in the light of 
hope, always hold fast to an inner faith in yourself. Without 
faith, you have nothing; with it you have a perpetual, 
inexhaustible source of courage and strength. 


124 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


While reading over these twelve rules, you will quickly 
note that some of them appear to be mutually contradictory. 
You may ask, "How can 1 be tolerant and unselfish —and also 
be practical ? The former implies yielding to others, the latter 
looking after my own interests first." 


Life itself is contradictory; there is no one single, simple 
answer to the events and experiences that will come your way. 
Being married, assuming the responsibilities of your wife and 
your family-to-be, will bring you events, changes, difficulties 
and opportunities that will test you to the utmost. Each of 
these rules will be applicable in your life at one time or the 
other, and you will rarely make a mistake if you follow them 
with common sense. 


It is through the experiences you meet that your inner 
nature will grow in stature. You will broaden your 
understanding and awareness of the meaning of life. The 
zodiacal circle, divided into the twelve basic signs, symbolises 
the whole life. It is only when life is wholly lived that man 
can achieve his full dignity. 


The twelve rules given here have been derived from the 
twelve zodiacal signs. These rules are not something to be 
read, then tossed aside and foregotten; they are to be 
remembered and lived by all your life. The meanings and 
implications contained in them carry an answer to all the 
ordinary, and most of the unusual and extraordinary 
problems, you will meet in the years to come. 


You are a man, one of Mankind, which is the most 
intelligent, the most advanced, the most powerful being in 
the Universe. By marrying, you have come to full stature as a 
man. Within yourself lie enormous potentialities; it is for you 
to draw upon them to your maximum ability and to apply 
them in wholesome, constructive and creative terms for your 
own sake and for the sake of your family. Look forward with 
confidence; if there is one key rule you wish never to forget, it 
is this : have faith in yourself. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 125 


Living by these rules, there is one other guide to remember. 
In the ordinary, everyday events of life, you will be dealing 
with yourself, your wife and family and the remainder of the 
world. You will make decisions, lose your temper, talk things 
over with your wife, spend and save money, work at your 
job, play and carry on all other business of living a full life. In 
all these there is the danger of going too far, acting to excess. 
Remember also, therefore, one of the oldest and greatest 
sayings handed down from the past. It is this : "Excess of any 
thing is bad." Due restrain in all things is always a wise policy. 


S3 


Marriage is A Co-operative Affair 


Without any doubt, the highest form of cooperation is the 
marriage partnership, for it necessitates getting along together 
daily in the most intimate relationship that human beings 
know — that beakfast-in-the-morning relationship, when both 
may be sleepy-eyed and a bit grumpy. 


It is "togetherness" during the dinner hour, when both 
husband and wife are tired out from the day's problems and 
everything just seems to go wrong; when children are ill and 
the bills pile up; when pressure of various kinds stress on the 
nervous system and both are at their "wits end" to know 
which way to turn. 


It is times like these that understandings turn into 
misunderstandings and a pair of normal people often turn to 
quarreling in their own domicile. 

It is said often that marriage is either cooperation or war; 
but the parties to the marriage hold it in their own hands to 
say which it shall be. There are two parties to every marriage; 
if one tries to cooperate and the other refuses, then there is 
trouble for sure. But, just surely, if both parties try to work 
out a cooperative marriage, there must necessarily be a 
harmonious or, at least, a workable operation. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 127 


We will find the cooperation or the conflict indicated from 
the 7th house of the astrological chart, as well as an explanation 
why there is coopertion or why there is conflict. The aspects 
of the other planets to the rulers of the 7th and the Ist zones 
are also very helpful in throwing light on this. 


True, the 7th house symbolises other things besides 
marriage; but whatever matters relate to the 7th house that 
are up for solution, the answers will be found in the same 
way. This is; ifa person cannot get along wih marriage partner, 
he is liable also to be in difficulty with a business partner,have 
troubles with lawyers if he has to deal with them, have open 
enemies. Asa general rule, he will have difficulty getting along 
with those who are not symbolised by other houses and their 
rulers in the chart. 


The difficulty lies in the lack of ability of the native to 
cooperate with others —or, should I say, other individuals — 
in any close personal relationship. Many times, while the 7th 
house may be afflicted, if there is a harmoniously aspected 
Pluto, the individual may get along beautifully in groups of 
people, while he will have trouble getting along with some 
one person. 


Life is a give-and take affair, something that some people 
never learn. Some prefer to do the giving, and some make ita 
habit to take all they can get. There is bound to be difficulty 
in either case, in the long run. As there is a time for taking, 
there is also a time for giving—a balancing of the scales 
between the Ist house, one partner and the 7th house, the 
other partner. In this way, harmony is reached and 
cooperation becomes happily the rule. 


The sign of the natural 7th house is the balanced scales, 
Libra — symbolised as a woman with the scales in her hand. 
Blindfolded, she knows only that when they balance perfectly, 
justice has been attained. Thus, one side must hold as much 
giving as the other side does taking; otherwise, justice is 


128 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


forfeited and there is trouble in the balance of life, love and 
happiness. 


Perhaps, for marriage, we should put the woman on one 
side of the scales and the man on the other. If one dominates, 
there is a shift in the balance—one side goes up; the other 
side, down; it is no longer a cooperative affair. While they 
may live together, there is, in some part of their lives, war- 
cold or hot, as the case may be. 


The old idea of marriage was possession. It is the clash 
between the old and the new, the striving cooperation, for 
full partnership by both parties, against this old idea that has 
caused —and will continue to cause—so many divorces. 


Until such time as man and woman can learn the desirable 
cooperative ability of dealing with each other, difficulty will 
continue. Real cooperation is, of course, the ultimate to be 
desired; the top most rung in the ladder of evolution, where 
two partners are in perfect accord and the balance holds even. 


The pathway lies through the 5th house—love and 
children — or the 11 th house — friendship and ideals. Either of 
these two houses makes a natural trine and sextile aspect to 
the Ist and 7th-house opposition, producing cooperation 
rather than problem or war aspects. 


An understanding of the operation of these houses can 
help anyone in working towards a more cooperative 
understanding with another, towards the building of a more 
harmonious and happier accord with any partner. 


Just as no life on this earth is perfect, so no chart of any 
native is perfect. There must, necessarily be stresses and strains 
in the chart, just as there are in the life; but the stresses and 
strains need not be in the 7th house. If they are not, then there 
is generally a happy marriage, unless the ruler of the 7th is 
afflicted. If the rulers of the 7th and Ist sectors are in 
harmonious aspect to each other, there are very good chances 
for a marriage that will last, even though other idications are 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 129 


such that there may be trouble and difficulty. 


I remember one chart where the rulers to the Ist and 7th 
houses were in close trine; but the ruler of the 7th was badly 
afflicted otherwise, being in close square to Mars and Venus. 
Over the years, the couple were often in close session with 
the idea of divorce; they quarrelled continually over small 
sums of money (Venus); yet as they moved up close to 
separation, they would make up and all would go well until 
the next quarrel. They lived together for forty years, at which 
time the husband passed away. 


In the foregoing case, you see, there was a lack of balance. 


He held the purse strings tightly in his hands and gave 
grudgingly for small needs. In other words, he dominated 
her with the power of money —not an unusual thing in rich 
families which this one was. This was a war between the old 
and the new, the idea of possession by the man, for a wife 
bought and paid for, to do with her as he saw fit. He had not 
evolved to the point of partnership. In his mind, he owned 
her. He could give her what he pleased. 


A Taurean by the Sun-Sign, the sign of possessiveness, 
his tendency to possess reached into the realms of possession 
of human beings, a condition that has been in common practice 
for thousands of years and still deeply imbedded in the 
subconscious minds of many. ; 


She was struggling for freedom, freedom from domination 
by the power of money through the mate. She would gain a 
measure of freedom for a little while only when she threatened 
to leave him. Thus, the balance moved up and down. First, he 
dominated with money; then, she dominated with threats of 
divorce. So it went on for many years, the periods of harmony 
coming only when the scales reached a balance as they moved 
up or down. 


As she learned through Astrology what caused the trouble, 
she gradually learned to handle her side of the partnership so 


130 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


that he was more reasonable, more understanding and more 
amiable. One party can do a great deal in an affair of this sort 
if he/she has an understanding of the condition and is willing 
to do his/her best to make life happier. 


He was not a bad person at all. He had many good 
qualities; but he was a hysterical, jealous and much older 
person than she. He belonged, really, to the old order of 
things —a time when woman was a possession. He was the 
kind of person who would have been perfectly happy to have 
owned and ruled slaves with an iron hand. He operated in 
this fashion with his employees and never understood why 
they did not like him. Born into a changing world where, in 
his life time, women began to get their personal freedom as 
well as the vote, he was constantly frustrated and was up 
against regular misunderstandings with his wife and others. 


She had a brilliant mind which he was continually dousing 
with the cold water of his misunderstanding; yet, he was 
"proud as Punch" that she held a Ph.D. from University. 


His difficulty was the same as a great many males in our 
present era — thousands years of male domination of woman 
in the subconscious mind, plus the fact that he was born and 
raised through childhood in that belief. Here was the struggle 
of many of our still-dominated women of today, trying to 
make a place for herself as a person, even though this was a 
subconscious push, born of the changing era in which we are 
all participating. 

An understanding of this evolutionary process gave her 
comprehension of the difficulty and helped her to move more 
slowly and intelligently towards more harmonious relations 
between herself and her husband. So, at least, those last years 
of the forty were much more harmonious and happier than 
the earlier ones. 


These evolutionary conditions are so in need of 
understanding. For instance : what evolutionary pattern are 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 131 


you moving through; how about those around you and with 
whom you find it necessary to live, work and relax ? Their 
evolutionary pattern may be different from yours if they are 
much older or very much younger than you. So often we hear 
about the difficulty of one generation to understand or 
cooperate with the other. They are in different evolutionary 
eras. To understand this give an insight into the personality 
of each other. 


It is the large, heavy planets in the chart that characterise 
the era of change that one's pattern outlines. It is of value to 
know also the history of the evolution of people so that you 
may understand what is in the subconscious mind or what is 
often spoken as the unconscious race pattern. 


This is true of nationalities as well as of races. The 
unconscious as well as sub-conscious of a German person 
would be different from that of a Japanese, a Hindu or even 
an Englishman. Any of them would be different from the 
unconscious and subconscious of an American, although it would 
make a difference even in Americans, depending upon the race 
and nationality pattern preceding the American pattern. 


The marriage pattern in all of these peoples and races has 
been different for generations; even in India today, the pattern 
is changing, just as it is changing in other countries. 


. The man referred to previously, for instance, had been 
born with Neptune in early Taurus. Neptune is a slave planet 
when under affliction and in his chart, it was partly afflicted. 
Taurus is the sign of possession. To him, she was a slave, or 
should have been; but she did not react that way at all. 


His wife was born with the conjunction of Neptune and 
Pluto in the second decanate of Gemini in the sixth house 
inconjunct Uranus and Saturn in Scorpio. This was the signal 
for sex and money freedom through revolutionary change. 
Adjustments were to made in the social order in Scorpio affairs 
through Gemini channels—talk, writing, the vote, written 


132 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


documents. The second decanate of Gemini is Libra influenced 
: this added changes in law and partnership. 


With the position that she held as a rich man's wife, giving 
her free time because of servants, her brilliant mind and 
education made her a devoted worker in this evolutionary 
change of the status of women. 


It was bound to bring trouble unless both of them could 
come to some common ground of understanding. They 
reached that ground during the latter years was a tribute to 
both of them. Marriage did finally become a cooperative affair, 
as-it should be. Then and only then can it be a happy 
partnership. 


Many, however, do not end so well. A high-placed male, 
when asked why he did not get into the swim and write his 
own biography, replied : "Because I would be ashamed of it. 
I have been married four times, and it took all those marriages 
before I could learn to get along with others." 


Here was an unusually honest man but one who had, after 
many mistakes, as he puts it, learned to cooperate with others 
or at least one other, as he and his present wife are getting 
along rather well. He was learning what cooperation with 
another can mean in terms of happiness and companionship. 
Often those with an afflicted 7th house have this problem and 
have to learn in this life. If they learn it, they often do find 
happiness, even though that learning may be late in coming. 


Many times, too, some conditions in the 7th house or 
aspects to the ruler of the lst and 7th zones change over the 
years. A progression may bring a more harmonious aspect 
into being. In empty seventh house many have a good 
progression move in ora heavy slow-moving transit may set 
off a good aspect for a time. In these cases, though, the 
marriage may not last long, being good only for the duration 
of the aspect; but it is often more to be desired than no 
marriage at all. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 133 


I have in mind one that lasted only six and a half years. 
True, his sudden death was a stark tragedy; but she made the 
remark afterward that she would not have missed those years 
with him as a husband, even though it was a short time. They 
were not always happy and they had difficulties in their 
adjustments to each other, for they were close to middle age 
when they married, but they were certainly much happier 
together for those few years than they were in their original 
single state. 


In this particular case, it was a Uranus-Neptune 
8th house inconjunct that foretold the result in her chart. She 
had Neptune in the 7th house sextile Venus in the Sth but 
inconjunct Uranus by 8th-house aspect in her Ist. 


Progressed Uranus moved backward and progressed 
Neptune moved forward over six degrees between the aspects, 
while the progressed Mars moved up to conjoin natal and 
progressed Neptune, then moved far enough along to make 
just over a six-degree difference in a 6th house inconjunct to 
the natal Uranus. The marriage lasted just that long. When 
transiting Uranus moved up over the progressed Mars and 
was squared by transiting Mercury, it was over so fast that 
there was no time for help. 


Another chart with Neptune in the 7th trined by Mercury 
had Saturn inconjunct by 6th house aspect. This marriage 
lasted almost thirty-six years. 


As progressed Saturn moved backward and progressed 
Neptune moved forward within a degree of an exact 
inconjunct, the progressed Mars moved forward to inconjunct 
by 8th house aspect to the south node (Ketu). As the transits 
aspected these progressions, the husband passed away. 


In neither of these marriages was there a really cooperative 
partnership. It was a case of balance moving up and down, 
as each one gained an advantage over the other for a short 
time; still, they endured. As time passed, the cooperation 
became more and more in evidence. 


134 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


I doubt that in either of these cases one would have left 
the other for they were not genuinely fond of each other; but 
the old idea of man's possession of woman and the new idea 
of woman being a person in her own right was at the bottom 
of the difficulties in both of these cases. It is at the bottom of 
many such marriages and often the cause of unfaithfulness, 
drunkenness and immorality, where the parties, not 
understanding the basic concept of a partnership, find it 
impossible to live in peace and happiness with each other. 


Transiting Uranus moving into the 7th house, even the 
solar 7th house, can bring about separation or divorce unless 
the 7th house aspects can hold through the exaggerated idea 
of freedom which this planet often brings. This kind of aspect 
can produce such a surge of emotion towards the idea of doing 
as one pleases that all commonsense seems to fly out of the 
window. 


One has the same tendency to cut loose from the old that 
a well-fed, well-housed and normally happy child may have 
in running away from home. There is an urge for freedom. 
How serious this may be, of course, has to do with the 
individual chart; but married couple who get this kind of a 
feeling should stop and check their ideas, their lives —and, 
most of all, their charts —to see what goes on. 


They may find that they really do not want their freedom 
at all or that getting it would not be the best thing for them; 
that if they get, they would not want it after all. A little 
common sense, a little try at cooperation, a little looking into 
motives and an understanding of the difficulty, as well as the 
realisation that in many cases they will marry the same kind 
of person that they married before, can he helpful in finding 
out whether they should live separately or learn to givea little 
and take a little to gain a happy married life. 


Can Success in Marriage 
be Foretold ? 


The horoscope of the average human being reveals the 
general attributes of human nature for the biological fulfilment 
of an average love life. The choice of a mate, the acquisition 
of a shelter and the rearing of progeny may be considered as 
the fundamental biological attributes of human love life. He 
is desirous to know how far beyond these bare fundamentals 
his grasp may reach. 


He would like to know how attractive and intelligent his 
mate will be, whether there will be a "meeting of the minds" 
to make for a fuller, uninhibited love life. What will be his 
prospective mate's social characteristics. Will she be single- 
hearted or will she openly attract the attentions of other men 
? Will she be affectionate or cold ? Will she manage the kind 
of home he hopes to be able to provide some day. 


Modern Astrology, answers to these and other questions 
concerning the prospective mate by a study of his or her natal 
horoscope. 

The basic pattern by which we study the love life of an 
individual is threefold. First, we study the hyleg planet. In 


136 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


the chart of female, the Sun is the hyleg planet; in the chart of 
a male, it is the Moon. The placement by sign of this hyleg 
planet and its strength by aspects determines the general 
attraction the individual will have for the opposite sex. 


The house in which this hyleg planet resides gives us 
another clue by which we can examine this opposite-sex 
attraction. The Sun in Aries located in an angular house in 
the horoscope of a female shows a strong attraction for men 
of Martian type. The Sun exalted in Aries and placed in an 
angle of the chart makes this attraction for men of Aries 
influence particulary strong. She will be attracted by men of 
Martian occupations: pioneers, explorers, business executives, 
soldiers or leaders of some type depending on the sphere in 
which she lives. The closer to the cusp of the angular house 
that Sun resides, the higher will be the status of leader whom 
she attracts. The farther from this cusp that Sun lies, the lower 
will be the degree of the leader. 


The Moon in Taurus of the horoscope of a man: shows 
that he will attract women who possess a Taurean influence. 
He will attract women who are conservative by nature and 
who live according to established customs, who are sociable 
and of good disposition; but conventional in their expression 
of these attributes. The Moon is exalted in Taurus : therefore, 
the best side of Moon nature will be attracted here. The 
distance of the Moon from the angular cusp determines the 
social degree of the one attracted and has little or no indication 
of her other qualities. Because this is an earthy and fixed sign, 
he will attract women who are associated with lands, houses 
or old established businesses, one who has or stands to inherit 
these things. 


The hyleg planet is strongest in the sign of its exaltation 
and has, because of this placement, a compartively fortunate 
influence. In signs of its debility or weaknesses it is less 
fortunate : that is, it will attract less fortunate individuals. 
The Sun in Libra, sign of its fall, in an angular house, will 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 137 


attract toa woman the kind of man who has a taste for science 
and fine arts, music, painting or poetry; he may show some 
degree of excellence in this direction. 


This position generally brings about an early romantic 
attachment for marriage, but there is likely to be some trouble 
caused by disappointment or disharmony that will bring the 
matter to a dissolution and an unfortunate termination. The 
hyleg planet in Gemini attracts persons of intellectual or 
literary capacities; in Cancer, folks of a homely turn of mind; 
in Leo, individuals of position and rulership, etc. 


Aspects made to the hyleg planets indicate the special 
flavours added to the sign characteristics of the persons 
attracted. An aspect from Venus shows above-average 
affectional expression, while a strong aspect from Saturn 
indicates a lack of affectional expression. If the aspect from 
Saturn is fortunate, a constancy of feeling is indicated. An 
aspect from Uranus shows an erratic element in the nature of 
the attracted person that will likely to come to grips with 
conventional ideas and may bring separation from friends 
and kins. 


An aspect from Mars indicates above-average generosity, 
but it also denotes a crude manner of affectional expression. 
Neptune in aspect with the hyleg planet brings a flavour of 
the visionary and the possibility that schemes or plots will 
play a part in affairs of the heart. Mercury shows fickleness 
or extreme intelligence, depending on the sign in which 
Mercury 1s placed and the nature of the aspect it makes to the 
hyleg planet. Jupiter indicates that there will be an abundance 
of what it represents in the horoscope and that the attracted 
person will be of jovial disposition. 


The kind of aspect made to the hyleg planet determines 
the fortune or misfortune of this special flavour. Under 
average conditions, the trine and sextile show that these 
special flavours are fortunate and compatible additions, while 
the square and opposition indicate that they are unfortunate. 


138 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


The conjunction is a different matter entirely and should be 
delineated according to the sign and planets involved. 


A conjunction of Uranus with the hyleg planet in Aquarius 
shows that unconventionalities will take precedence in the 
character of the attracted, Aquarius being a stronger sign for 
Uranus than for the Sun. On the other hand, in Pisces and 
with Venus, the conjunction will have a benign quality — and 
its influence will definitely strengthen the affectional ties. 
Should the aspecting planet be stronger by sign than the hyleg, 
its influence will override the hyleg's influence and will 
become fortunate or unfortunate in accordance with the sum 
total of its multiple aspects. 


When the hyleg planet is unaspected, the qualities of the 
person attracted will coincide exactly with the characteristics 
of the hyleg planet's sign. When many planets aspect the 
hyleg, more facets of human nature are open to attraction; 
and it is possible for any one or several of these special flavours 
to gain recognition. Of all the persons who are attracted, the 
one who will be chosen as the prospective mate will be the 
one who most completely exemplifies the composite of these 
influences shown in the horoscope. This does not mean that 
all gentlemen who pay their attention upon a young lady 
exemplify all the hyleg characteristics in her chart, but those 
whom she regards as suitors and asa possible mate do display 
these characteristics. 


The hyleg planet shows the general types of the persons 
who will be attracted and gives us a clue as to whether 
the number will be great or small. The stronger the hyleg is 
by sign, aspects and chart placement, the greatest will be the 
number of persons attracted. The weaker the hyleg is and the 
fewer its aspects are, the smaller will be the number attracted. 
When many planets aspect the hyleg but one of them is 
outstanding for its strength, that planet will stamp its qualities 
indelibly on the individual chosen as the prospective mate. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 139 


In my files is the chart of a young lady whose Sun was 
within aspect to all of the planets except Pluto. A naturally 
attractive girl, she had beaux by the carload : but she carried 
off each individual episode with such a degree of flamboyance 
as to preclude the possibility of a lasting attachment. In 
addition to the other aspects her Sun made, it was conjunct 
Uranus and Mercury in Virgo in the 7th house. 


The prominent Uranus gave her a natural flare for 
many beaux, but the closer aspect of Mercury added a 
discerning and intelligent appraisal of her many suitors — 
Virgo is a very discerning sign. She later married a college 
professor of literature and very naturally accepted her position 
as a model wife contributing her full share to the success of 
the union. 


A person will, therefore, attract the kind of members of 
the opposite sex whose characteristics most closely match the 
attributes of the hyleg planet and will choose, from among 
those available, the one who most nearly exemplifies these 
characteristics as the prospective mate. 


There are, however, other matters that give the astrological 
student further insight into the love life of the individual. 
Sign position and aspects to the planet Venus show the 
amount and kind of affectional expression an individual will 
demonstrate. A Venus that is debilitated by sign, cadent by 
house and lacking in aspects denotes an individual who lacks 
the ability or the desire to express affectional matters 
demonstratively. On the other hand, when Venus is well 
placed by sign and prominent of house, making many and 
strong aspects with other planets, it shows the person to have 
a many-faceted nature for affectional expression. 


The more essentially dignified Venus is by sign, the higher 
will be the quality of this expression. Inversely the more 
debilitated Venus 1s in the chart, the lower will be the quality 
of affectional expression and the cruder its demonstration. 


140 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Venus is one of the planets that possesses considerable 
latitude because it rules two signs in the zodiac — Taurus and 
Libra. It is exalted in Pisces, is in its fallin Virgo, is detriment 
in Aries and Scorpio. These signs, six in all, have a definite 
affectional expression. The highest quality is reflected by 
Pisces, the lowest by Virgo, with all the other expressions 
scattered in between these two extremes. 


The houses in which Venus is placed gives us a clue to the 
part that affectional matters play in the life of the individual. 
Placed in an angular house, close to its cusp, it denotes a 
person in whose life affectional matters play a very prominent 
part. Placed in succeedent or cadent house, affectional 
expression plays a less prominent part being superseded by 
the characteristics of plantes lying closer to an angular cusp. 


There is one effect of the house placement of Venus that 
you can check readily in the lives of those whose charts you 
have compiled. When Venus is strong and is located ina public 
house — ninth, tenth or eleventh — the native is given to public 
demonstration of affectional matters. He likes to kiss and 
fondle the object of his affections in public. When Venus is 
located in a personal house—12th, Ist or 2nd—the native 
insists on making this type of affectional demonstration in 
private and is definitely adverse to a public display. The old 
codger who fostered on an unsuspecting public the "No 
Kissing" signs in railroad stations of several decades ago 
undoubtedly had an unaspected Venus posited in the 12th 
house. 


The affectional matters indicated by the planet Venus are 
flavoured and coloured by the planets that aspect it. A strong 
aspect from Jupiter brings abundance of affectional 
expression, while an aspect from Saturn produces a scarcity 
of expression. Uranus causes the affectional matters to be 
expressed in unconventional ways, while Mercury makes for 
fickleness and vacillation. Neptune's influence is both 
visionarv and scheming, the stroger the aspect, the more 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 141 


involved are the schemes. 


The influence of Mars is one of crudeness and aggression. 
Much has been written about the influence of Venus-Mars 
conjunction on the love life of an individual. Certainly, any 
Mars influence on the love life will result in a cruder 
expression than would be the case without the Mars influence 
: but in the case of the conjunction, a great deal depends on 
the sign and house in which the conjunction occurs. Falling 
in a sign that is more favourable to Venus, the softer Venus 
influence predominates; in a sign that is more favourable to 
Mars the rougher and more aggressive Martian influence takes 
precedence. 


Fundamentally, Venus and Mars are the two social planets; 
and the stronger the two are in the horoscope, the more 
gregarious is the native — he seeks and enjoys the company of 
others and dreads being left alone. When the Mars influence 
is strong, however, and Venus is weak—as would occur with 
a conjunction in either Aries or Scorpio — there is danger that 
the expression of affectional matters may bring trouble to the 
native. 


Fortunate aspects between Venus and other planets tend 
to bring benefic results to the native along the pattern of the 
two planets' influences, while unfortunate aspects tend to 
bring the opposite. When there is a scarcity of aspects to the 
two social planets, the native is inclined to be a social bore, 
but when the two are strongly aspected, he is the life of the 
party. Venus represents the passive influence, Mars the active 
and aggressive. A strong Venus influence in one of the 
opposite sex is the perfect foil for a strong Mars influence in the 
other. While certain aspects to Venus are better for the native 
than others, so far as the expression of affectional matters is 
concerned, any aspect is better than no aspect at all. 


For other romantic influences that determine the native's 
actions and reactions, we study the Sth house of the chart. 
The sign on the Sth-house cusp, its influence on romantic 


142 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


matters, planets in the 5th house and house and sign 
placement of the cusp ruler give us a further insignt into the 
type of romantic attachments the native will be attracted to 
himself. The six signs previously mentioned that catalogue 
the essential dignity of Venus affect the romantic interests 
more poignantly than do the other six, though each sign places 
its definite stamp on the romantic nature. 


List the general characteristics of the sign ruling the cusp 
and then consider each planet in the hosue as reflecting its 
influence from the sign in which it is placed, remembering to 
visualise each separate influence as we did when we studied 
the affectional attributes of Venus : such as Mercury's 
influence is vacillating and fickle, Saturn's is restricting and 
confining ete. 


When Mercury and Uranus are both prominent in Sth- 
house matters, there is a strong tendency for the development 
of duplicity in romantic affairs; the native is capable of 
carrying on two or more romantic affairs of equal intensity at 
the same time. This becomes more certain when the Venus 
influence is also involved. 


Because people actually change house in each other's 
charts when they get married and cohabitation begins, the 
influences that prevailed during the courting period 
sometimes change rather abruptly. When the attachment is 
still one of romance, the 5th-house influences are dominant; 
but when marriage takes place, the 7th-house influences are 
brought directly into play. 


When 7th and Sth-house influences are similar, the 
transition from romantic attachment to marriage is a simple 
one; but when there is great deal of difference between the 
influence of the two houses, the adjustments required will be 
difficult. Whenever you hear some one say, "He was so 
attentive to her when they were going together; but now that 
they are married; he pays her no attention at all" you know 
that this is a case where a great deal of difference exists 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 143 


between 5th and 7th-house influences. 


A strong Ist house influence bearing on the 5th house 
shows the native's desire for personal gratification in romantic 
matters at the expense of the partner's. When an adverse 
aspect exists between the significators of the 2nd and 5th 
houses and the 2nd-house significator is the faster moving of 
the two, romantic affairs will be weighed on monetary basis. 
When a strong aspect comes to the Sth from the 3rd, brothers, 
sisters or neighbours will influence the romance of the native; 
4th-house aspects show the influence of the home or father; 10th- 
house aspects denote an influencing mother or business etc. 


It is wise to catalogue all the Sth-house influences, to study 
them separately, to weigh them as to their importance based 
on their individual strengths and to correlate them as a 
composite whole. Each separate influence will find expression, 
though that expression will be clothed and coloured by all 
the other influences brought to bear on the 5th house in the 
field of romantic matters. 


The Astrologically uninstructed individual blindly follows 
the stronger influences of his horoscope, good or bad, much 
as an animal follows its instincts until, by trial and error and 
much loss of time and effort, he learns to choose the path that 
is best for him. The application of simple astrological advice 
early in life can avert many a trouble and can save years of 
aimless and fruitless searching by helping the native to choose 
to follow only those influences that his chart shows to be of a 
benefic nature. Actually, the great difference between an 
animal and a human is that the human has the ability of choice. 


Your love life is an integral part of your entire being. An 
attempt to minimise its importance could be fatal to your best 
interests. Understand yourself thoroughly and allow only 
those influences to control you of which you have astrological 
evidence of their beneficial promises. If you will make this 
decision early, you will add years of usefulness of your life — 
and you will find it to be freer, happier and fuller. 


15] 


How Astrology can Help You Avoid 
Marital Pitfalls ? 


Love alone does not guarantee a long and successful 
marriage because one's love can change from one person to 
another as he meets others during his life time. Many are seen 
who were, as they said, "desperately" in love with a certain 
person; then, ina year or two, they were "desperately" in love 
with another. This is all too common where sex is the basis 
for their "love" and is found in horoscopes of those who have 
strong configurations between Mars and Venus in the fire 
signs. Basing marriage solely on "love" is a method used by 
most teenagers and explains why so many teenage marriages 
end in divorce. 


In India and many other Asiatic countries, marriages are 
arranged by the parents of the bride and the groom. The 
selection of a marriage partner is left to the more mature 
judgment of older persons. Some couples never see each other 
before marriage; yet the record shows that the degree of 
contentment in marriage is higher in this part of the world 
than it is in the West. It must also be taken into account that 
Astrology is used to determine whether or not the couple 
(match) will be compatible. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 145 


Disillusionment after marriage is the result of the building 
of a false ideal about the loved one. This also could be 
eliminated by a complete analysis of the loved one's horoscope 
before marriage. No person is perfect; however, some people 
are obnoxious, but are able to hide that side of their nature 
during courtship. If after an astrological analysis of the 
horoscope one finds that the intended marriage partner is not 
all that one expected, at least the degree of disillusionment 
will be lessened. Perhaps some way can be found to take care 
of personality faults. But this is risky in so much if those faults 
are serious. 


The best marriages are based on reality and commonsense. 
Always be certain that you love a person for what he (or she) 
is and not for what you think he (or she) is really or on the 
idea that you can change his personality completely. Again, I 
must repeat that the horoscope shows the real person. 


Sometimes a girl getting along in her late twenties, sees 
all her friends getting married; then some soft-talking slicker 
comes along with a nice “line” and proposes marriage. 
Usually, he is younger in years but wise in the art of judging 
women. 


Women in the late forties and early fifties seem to be most 
susceptible to the wiles of these young charmers. Especially 
it is this the case if they are widows who have inherited some 
property or money and want to enjoy sex with these young 
ones. Had they consulted an Astrologer before marriage they 
would have been given a warning which would have, if 
heeded, saved them from the loss of all they owned. The 
horoscopes of these human male parasites do show what they 
will do after marriage. 


One case in particular comes to my mind. About twenty 
five years ago, a girl in her late twenties— who held a very 
important job with a large transportation company — gave me 
the birth date of man who seemed interested in her to the 
extent that he had proposed marriage. She wanted me to meet 


146 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


him personally, which I did. Knowing what his horoscope 
showed, I observed him carefully for an hour or so and left. 


The next morning, I called at her place of business and 
told her that his horoscope showed incarceration in some penal 
institution and that after meeting him, I felt that the horoscope 
was not wrong. Not that he was not very affable — because he 
was and a very neat dresser, too. I can still hear her gasp when 
I mentioned the term in prison. She told me to keep quiet 
about that because she did not want her folks to know and 
wanted to see me personally as soon as possible. It turned out 
that he had signed other people's names to cheques and was 
sent to prison for several years for forgery. 


I asked her how much money he had got from her, and 
she admitted letting him have several hundred rupees. He 
took the usual way out — he took off for parts unknown. Two 
or three bad aspects to Neptune and other 12th-house 
compulsions spell out this trouble in any chart. 


A short time ago, a young woman aged twenty-two came 
to see me regarding a love affair which seemed at the time to 
have come to an abrupt ending. It was plain to me that she 
wanted me to tell her that she and the young man with whom 
she was associating would eventually be married. She came 
from another city and was staying at a hotel. Her erstwhile 
boy-friend was going to college and for about a year had 
completely forgotten her, so it seemed. She knew he must have 
another girl in this city or in the college, or at least, so she 
thought. 


Her horoscope showed the Sun, Moon and Mercury all 
tied up in Scorpio. The progressions showed Sun square natal 
Jupiter and Mars progressed to the opposition of Saturn (Sth 
to 11th). These were very bad aspects, and the young lady 
showed the extreme tensions which usually accompany such 
progressions. Tragedy often is coincident with such 
configurations, so I was looking for some way to calm. I 
thought I had found it; I was wrong. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 147 


Looking over the horoscope of the object of her affections, 
I found some significant indications. Mars and Neptune were 
in conjunction. Venus was moving but twenty minues at birth 
and rapidly going towards retrograde motion. The retrograde 
phase started when the young man was seventeen years of age 
and, of course, got slower in retrograde motion as the years 
advanced unitl, when he was twenty-two, the motion was 
retrograde thirteen minutes per year. It will not resume its direct 
motion until he reaches his fifty-eighth year. 


I asked her if she expected to live the life of a normal wife, 
with children, and she said she did. Then I told her that she 
had better forget all about the young fellow and seek other 
male friend. When the boy was eleven years old, the 
progressions in his chart were the same as the girl's natal 
planetary position, she being eleven days younger than he 
was. It was at that time she informed me that she had become 
fascinated with him. This often happens and is specially true 
when the girl is from fifteen to twenty days younger than the 
boy. Her Neptune is exactly on his Mars. Her Mars reached 
the opposition to his Saturn, and I fear some tragedy. Her 
progressed Mars is also in opposition to Saturn in her natal 
chart. This adds more danger. I had just started to tell her 
about this when she paid my fee and departed suddenly, 
without leaving her name. Her last words were a threat that 
if he would not marry her, she would see to it that no other 
woman would have him. 


After spending more than an hour trying to convince her 
that he was not a good candidate as a husband for any woman, 
she still wanted him. If she told the truth, she had not been in 
his company for almost a year; so there was no reason to 
believe that circumstances compelled their marriage. 


Marriage with anyone of this type is a risky business. The 
young lady based good judgment in having the man's 
horoscope analysed before getting married to him. I wonder 
if she took my advice. 


148 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


The two solar charts were as under — 


Mer tI? 
Sunt* 
Moon 22° 


Slightly similar was a recent case of a young man who 
came to see me about marriage to a girl quite a bit younger 
than he was. I saw that she was born a neurotic and told him 
so and that she was likely to remain that way the rest of her 
life. A look at the chart of her mother showed that the girl 
inherited her neurotic personality. This young fellow waited 
until the interview was over, and then it was that he told me 
the rest of the story—the girl was pregnant and he was the 
cause. Under the circumstances, there was but one thing to 
do—and that was to marry her as soon as possible. 


A few days after the interview, I received a letter saying 
that the young lady was in hospital and seemed to be suffering 
of a nervous breakdown. A psychiatrst was called im; he 
confirmed what her horoscope indicated. She was in bad way, 
and I advised him to marry her at once. They were married; 
and although the young man had a problem on his hands, I 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 149 


believe that he was equal to it and cope with her eccentricities. 


The disturbing aspects in the girl's horoscope were Sun 
and Mars in the 12th square Uranus in the 10th house. At 
birth, the Moon was but two degrees past the square of 
Neptune. By progression, the Sun, Mars and Mercury were 
all tied up in the first house, each less than one degree apart. 
Saturn and Jupiter were in the 9th in conjunction. Mars and 
Saturn were parallel at birth; Mercury and Uranus were also 
parallel. With that kind of horoscope, one's life would be so 
filled with obstacles that it would be a herculean task just to 
keep one out of trouble. This is a perfect example of mixed- 
up emotions. 


Today the material needs of marriage require a sizable 
income and good mental health is also necessary if the couple 
is to cope satisfactorily with the numerous problems which 
will surely arise. "No matter what I do, my wife says it is 
wrong." said one of my clients. Her horoscope showed some 
very trying aspects to Uranus (including the Moon), and, of 
course, she was ina State of discontent most of the time. I told 
this client that he would have to make the best of it if he wanted 
to stay married to his wife. 


A wife wrote, "We have had nothing but trouble for the 
last two or three years. I have caught him running around 
with other women, etc." They did not have any trouble before 
that time, she said, so I believed that there must be something 
in the progressions. Checking the two charts, I found that the 
husband had the opposition of Mars and Saturn in his natal 
chart. Mars was at 28° Gemini and Saturn at 29°30' Sagittarius. 
This wife's progressed Sun had progressed to 27°30' Virgo 
three years ago; and by last year, it had reached 29° Virgo. 
That had brought her progressed Sun first square his Mars 
and then square his Saturn, thereby activating his Mars-Saturn 
opposition. My conclusion was that this was a temproary feud 
only and that divorce would be ridiculous. Divorce now would 
very likely be regretted latter. 


150 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


This case shows how the progressions affect marital affairs. 
Had this been pointed out to this couple several years ago, I 
would never have heard from this wife, I am sure. She would 
have been prepared for the situation and would have been 
able to cope with it. No doubt, the petty argument led to 
serious touble and grew worse as the aspect neared 
culmination. 


Here under is another case of husband and wife which 
was the result of ignorance.The wife writes as follows : "I 
have been told that we are not m the right signs for a happy 
marriage, but I did not believe it. Then for different reasons, 
we slowly drifted apart. (we have been married about eight 
years). After two years, the light suddenly dawned on me 
that things were going from bad to worse. My husband began 
seeing other women. He knows IJ know this and he told me 
that he did not love me any more. He told me that if I wanted 
a divorce, I should go ahead with the idea. However (and 


pom 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 151 


this puzzles me), in the last few weeks, he seems to be 
interested in me again. I wonder if that is only acting. We 
have a three-year-old child. Has he really changed ?" 


The first thing which stood out was the fact that she was 
older than her husband, with a retrograde Mars which was 
opposite Saturn. Her Venus was in the dual sign Pisces, and 
his Venus was also in the same sign. This is one of the 
indications for plural marriages. His Jupiter is square Uranus 
falling in her 4th and 7th houses —certainly not good for her 
domesitc tranquility. His Venus coming to the conjunction of 
his natal Uranus in two years could mean divorce and another 
marriage. Was it supposed to be this way or could it have 
been avoided ? Would they had listened to an Astrologer nine 
years ago ? They would have been wise if they had. 

Here is another case where competent astrological advice 
would have saved a woman from many hours of misery. It 
seems that her husband is a truck driver who drives between 
two large cities and, of course, has ample reason to stay away 
overnight. She did a little checking on him some time ago 
and found that his overnight absence were due to his staying 
with a woman in another city. Further investigation showed 
that he had a-few-month-old bady by this other woman. This 
was discovered after ten years of marriage to the driver. She 
has had four children by her husband. When the husband 
discovered that his wife knew about the affair with the other 
woman and the child, he, according to her statement, beat 
her up so badly that she had to have three stitches in her face. 
What should she do ? 

Looking over the two horoscopes for the cause of his 
irritable action, the first thing I saw was an applying square 
of Venus and Uranus and a square of the Sun and Uranus. 
Yet the usual indications of so violent temper were not in the 
birth-chart of this man; so I assumed that when he found 
himself caught in a trap, he fought back. He followed the 
Venus-Uranus and Sun-Uranus urges in his birth-chart and 


152 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Mars 29° 
Uranus 7° 
Plulo 16° 
. 
Husband ne 7 
Mer 1° 


A 


Ver Jupiter 7. 
| 8 , 


| Saturn 24° Pluto 25° 
1 6 . 
Neptune Driver's 
| Venus § wife 
4 
Mars 4° | Nep 14° 
4 


Moon 
Pluto 
had been caught in his self-made trap. Other than tne 
possibility (she did not send her birth hour) of the Moon being 
in opposition to Venus, there were no adverse aspects in her 
birth-chart. Sun signs being used here due to non availability 
of birth hour and exact place of birth. 


Had the wife in this case been informed as to what to 
expect after marriage from a man with both Venus and the 
Sun square Uranus, she could have refused to marry nim— 
or, at least, the shock would have been appreciably lessened. 


When I get cases like this, I often wonder what these wives 
would say if they lived in the Orient, where such things are 
tolerated —in many countries, they are encouraged. In some 
of the older countries and tribes women are allowed more 
than one husband. Morals seem to be, to a great extent, a 
matter of geographical boundries only. In a country where 
polygamy is practiced, Venus in adverse aspect to Mars or 
Uranus would be an asset. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 153 


In making judgement ofa horoscope, the Astrologer must 
take into consideration such things as racial background and 
environment (both present and past). What the Astrologer 
sometimes thinks is right or wrong may not be what the client 
thinks about it. What the client's course of action will lead to 
should be pointed out to him. This is the Astrologer's duty; 
and if the client does not heed the advice and suffers; then 
the Astrologer is not to be blamed. 


One of the most difficult things for the Astrologer is to try 
to convince a person that he (or she) should give up the idea 
of marrying a certain person. Of course, if one waits until he 
finds a person with a perfect natal chart, he may never get 
married; but, at least he will know what to expect, if the birth- 
chart is not perfect. It takes a lot of courage to tell a person 
that his intended marriage partner is a hopeless neurotic or a 
psychic wreck, but all Astrologers have to face that problem; 
yet they cannot shirk their duty. 


Even the doctor of medicine has times when he must 
inform his patient that he has an incurable cancer. Had the 
patient gone to his doctor before his condition became 
hopeless, he might have been saved. So get astrological advice 
asearly as possible— before not after. 


16 


Surmounting Adverse 
Marriage Aspects 


"We both never get along; his Sun squares my Sun." "Her 
Mars is square my Saturn, and you know what that mean." 
The Astrologer nods his head in complete agreement —and 
we have fallen into the same old trap. 


It is very true that afflicting aspects between the planets 
of those entering marital and business partnerships are often 
very difficult to resolve unless the people involved want to 
find a common meeting ground where these adverse 
planetary energies can work themselves out. If they lose the 
battle, they divorce and seek someone more congenial. After 
the change, they may find themselves with the same old 
problem with in a new person, for people have distinct 
tendency to seek their own personal diffractions in another. 


Marriage is an emotional partnership with physical 
overtone : as such, the planetary afflictions are given much 
greater play than in a business relationship, where the persons 
are related only upon a specific plane. The man with Mars 
trine Saturn may relax the whole afternoon with his feet to 
his desk, pulling ideas out of his brain like rabbits out of a 
hat. Eventually, these ideas are passed on to his partner, whose 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 155 


own Mars is opposed to our executive's Saturn. As this is an 
outward mutual apsect, he shapes those mental fancies into 
workable form. The Mars Man, once he gets into his own 
stride, does fine — until he goes home, where his wife, whom 
he loves in most of the aspects of her nature, has a Saturn that 
squares his Sun. This means that if he tells her that he has 
been shaping up H.J.'s newest brain-child, she will pomptly 
ask him why he is not smart enough to think up a few things 
on his own that would pay him more money. Therefore, he 
says nothing. The next day, he takes one of the typists to lunch; 
she has her Jupiter conjunct his Venus and thinks he is the 
intellect of the century. 


The adverse aspects between charts are those where the heavy 
planets - Mars, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and sometimes Pluto - 
are inconflict with each other or with the luminaries, especially the 
Sun, for that is the spark of individuality in every chart. 


Afflicting aspects — square, opposition and inconjunct — 
between the Suns of prospective partners have always been 
delineated as distinctly unfortunate for material happiness. 
Naturally, by this reckoning, only those with favourable Sun 
to Sun aspects are harmoniously married; and all others are 
either divorced or fighting like cats and dogs. Any two Sun- 
Signs can get on if they sincerely make the effort to do so, 
although when they know that for some reason they are not 
supposed to, often they will make a determined effort to fight 
so as to bear out the prediction. We will take those aspects of 
the Sun that are supposed to be inimical to each other and 
show where the unfortunate effects can be at least pared down, 
although they may not be entirely eliminated as a source of 
discord. 


SUN-SQUARE-SUN 

A square of the luminaries means that the couple involved 
are basically of a different elemental background. As an 
exmaple, we can take the Sun in Aries square the Sun in 


156 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Cancer. We assume that the Aries native is the epitome of the 
sign in character, as the Cancerian rs of hers. Her need to 
protect and establish permanent foundation in life will conflict 
with his desires to permanent foundation in life will conflict 
with his desires to experiene new situations —a march across 
the Rockies or establishing a fruit stall in the Arctic. She must 
endeavour to reroute these actions on the basis of commonsene 
rather than allow him to seek the new only because it is 
unfamiliar; but she must do so without injuring his ego. 


Wecan therefore, say, that the square acts as an aspect of 
restraint; and whether the discipline is valuable or not can 
only be predicted on what the other person needs for his 
development. It certainly need not be a coercive relationship 
on either side, as all one partner needs to remember is the 
final denominator of the other and how to utilise it to the best 
advantage in the union. 


SUN-INCONJUNCT-SUN 


This aspect often occurs where the partners are so widely 
divergent in their goals as to be somewhat ludicrous upon 
close examination. As the inconjunct is also a health aspect, 
one of the partners may have a problem in this respect. We 
may use Princess Margaret and Antony Armstrong Jones to 
illustrate. His Sun falls in her solar 8th house; and her Sun is 
in his solar 6th. He had polio, as is well known. The 6th, as 
the house to work, also comes into play, in that only recently 
he has been allowed to go to work; and it seems to bea position 
where he cannot collect a salary for his labours. Thus, his Sun 
in her 8th house does not in this case lend to her financial 
support. This is an extreme case; but one can find other 
examples in which the persons concerned are in some very 
important way unequal, and this inequality is one of the basic 
issues and cannot be adjusted on a superficial level. The one 
must accept the innate difference, and the other must not 
presume upon it to crack the whip. Let us say that Taurus 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 157 


had the gift of making money or prospering materially in 
diverse ways while Libra has the art of making beauty or 
holding others as friends. These potentials are inherent in the 
individuals, and one can learn from the other; but they cannot 
disdain the accomplishment because one of them considers 
his gifts the more valuable. 


SUN-OPPOSITION-SUN 


This aspect is primarily a partnership relationship and 
really should not be conidered unfavourable; however, there 
are times when it manifests in so much unfortunate manner. 
A young woman whose Sun falls in her 10th house has a 
chance to marry. She is not domestically inclined and has no 
wish to give up her career, where she is a marvel; but she 
feels that she can handle the home as well as career together 
without too much trouble. Her potential husband agrees that 
she can do this without damage to the union, at least in the 
beginning. 

He was born with his Sun in his 4th house of home; and 
as they both have the same ascending signs, their Suns oppose 
each other from the 4th to the 10th house. Basically, he wishes 
to be ultimate voice in his home, which also means that his 
dependents are dependent in on uncertain terms. The fact that 
she shines in her own sphere begins to annoy him and finally 
to arouse his feelings of inferiority, for she has more dominion 
in the outer masculine world; this leaves him with rulership 
in the home, which is essentially a female job. Thus, the 
opposition results ina struggle for position and, if continued, 
will break up the union. The Sun opposition the Sun holds 
this kind of threat unless each partner understands that the 
qualities of each are complementary. 


There are in addition other outside influecnes that can have 
a damaging effect on a marriage. The phenomenon of third 
party menacing an on going relationship is well known; it 
may be a friend, in-law or a relative who is the potential 
interpolar. There may be no ulterior motives of any kind, or 


158 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


the person can be deliberately destructive. In any case, 
something in his or her planetary make-up sets off a chain 
reaction of doubts and distrust between the partners, which 
allows this third party to play his game. 


A married man with his Sun in his 7th house of partnership 
has a close square aspect to his 4th-house Saturn. We can 
readily imagine that this partnership will suffer from his 
severe and limiting attitudes in his home life. His brother, an 
exceedingly successful man in material matters, deposits his 
Uranus on our man's Saturn. With the best will in the world, 
he wishes his brother to enlarge his home, tearing out a few 
walls here and the purchasing new luxuries for the benefit of 
this sister-in-law, who is becoming a drudge. These radical 
procedures anger the Saturn man, who takes it out on his wife 
when his brother leaves. Thus, the brother must either cease 
to call or keep his mouth shut. If the wife wakes up to her 
home situation under the stimulus of the brother-in-law, the 
marriage will begin to crumble, not because of trouble in the 
marital relationship itself, but due to lack of affection and 
understanding in the home. 


This young woman has just married. Her husband's 
Venus is conjunct her Sth house Sun placement — the domain 
of love and children. They get on very well, although her 
husband's Neptune in his 7th house is square to his wife's 
Sun, thus square his own Venus, an emotionally deceptive 
aspect. His mother arrives for a visit and deposits her natal 
Mars on her son's Neptune. When he was under her dominion, 
she subtly came between all of his potential partnerships, with 
her insinuations and implications; and she now uses the same 
technique against his wife. She succeeds temporarily in sowing 
doubts of wife's love in her son's mind. It is very touchy and 
goes for a while. However, she leaves; and the Sun-Venus 
conjunction reasserts itself, as it is the stronger of the two 
aspects; but the wife must be on her guard each time her 
mother-in-law visits them. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 159 


The Larger Planets Exert a More Lasting Effect 
SUN-CONJUNCT-SATURN 


The bane of the ancients was that old dragon, the Sun 
conjunct Saturn, between partners in marriage and business. 
When we find in an individual chart the Sun square or 
conjunct Saturn, depend upon it that any potential partner 
will have a similar Saturn affliction in his or her own chart — 
first, because like goes to like; secondly, becasue Saturn 
conflicts thrive on difficulty. They will do it the hard way 
every time. 


The Sun conjunct Saturn in marriage assumes that one 
will supposedly discipline the other; usually Saturn dominates 
the Sun. Yet in the final analysis, the Sun may be the 
controlling factor in shunting Saturn into paths favourable to 
the Sun. The burden of Saturn on the Sun is such that it will 
not move without assurance that it is going in the right 
direction. The dependency grows at a monstrous rate if the 
Sun happens to be a naturally authoritative person; and if the 
action should turn out adversely, as it sometimes does, Saturn 
will hold the Sun responsible. Fortunately, the Sun usually 
will accept the so-called burden of Saturn without murmuring; 
but if he decides to drop it, he will do so. 


SUN-SQUARE-SATURN 


This is a different matter entirely; it seems to be a case of 
frustrating behaviour on the part of the Saturn. Saturn always 
wishes to be safe; unfortunately, this usually happens at the 
expense of the Sun. Unless Saturn is considerably developed, 
it throws obstacles in the path of the Sun, from a security aim, 
and at the same time tosses cold water on the Sun's ideas and 
projects. The Sun then devises its own plans without 
consulting Saturn, and this naturally leads to quarrels and 
recriminations on both sides. 


Saturn for some reason demands so much from the Sun 
that it is impossible of fulfilment; and the Sun sooner or later 


160 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


begins to realise that it can never meet up to these 
requirements. Saturn is primarily at fault in this combination 
and must do the most spadework on its faults —which are 
shown as excess materialistic ambitions. The Sun needs to 
put down its foot and keep it down against Saturn's 
demoralising tactics. 


SUN-OPPOSITION-SATURN 


This aspect is really a hindrance between the two charts 
for the simple reason that it pulls away the vitality of the Sun 
or renders it impotent by the artless process of inertia. When 
it is working on its full debit side, all questions and problems 
strike against a wall of indifference; the Sun does not even 
take the trouble to fight, unless it is with sarcastic remarks or 
piercing comments to which there is no possible retort. The 
favourable side of this aspect is that it does save the Sun from 
many headlong actions by just not going along with them. 
The clue to resolve this problem is that Saturn must utilise 
the gift of sympathy and understanding, it lacks; the emotional 
approach, the Sun needs to function usefully in the world. At 
the same time, Saturn will find itself expanding under the 
solar rays—if it will accept them. 


Sun aspects to Neptune work more directly upon the 
emotional plane and do not have very much to do with 
material circumstances, except in situations where there is 
deception in that particular area. 


SUN-CONJUNCT-NEPTUNE 


This, if there are other harmonious indications between 
the partners, is a strong psychic tie and one of the great 
spiritual strength. Other people are not likely to understand 
these people, so it is better that they seek their companions 
among those like themselves. The partners are very much alike 
in temperament; and if they are going down a thorny way, 
they do not in the least mind going together. It is often between 
musicians or painters; in any couple both partners active in 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 161 


the arts will have close aspects between the Sun and Neptune 
from chart to chart. 


SUN-OPPOSITION-NEPTUNE 


This aspect is a sort of lower level of the Sun conjunct 
Neptune. It lifts the Sun into a more rarified sphere of the 
mind—one may even say mystical —but it is not easily 
sustained. It is quite often found between partners with an 
extreme difference in age; and it is Neptune who is the 
younger of the two. It cannot be the sole holding point between 
people, since it is subject to a considerable amount of outside 
interference. 


SUN-SQUARE-NEPTUNE 


Neptunian squares have the reputation of being 
treacherous and malefic. Certainly, the rewards of their 
manifestation seem to be dubious in value. It is by and large 
a very confusing aspect between partners, solely because of 
the inability of the Neptunian individual to keep to a mundane 
level in his or her dealings with the Sun. Neptune will not 
limit itself, even for its own good; thuz, the Sun feels insecure 
in its company and tries to fence it in. Thus, only succeeds in 
provoking a long course of elusiveness on the part of Neptune, 
who evades and retreats. It is better if Neptune is the female, 
for men expect a certain amount of feminine subterfuge in 
emotional relationships. Its worst effects are a lack of trust 
between the partners and the possibility of deception because 
of previous unsavory experiences in life. One should always 
know as much as possible about the prospective mate before 
cementing the union. 


Sun-Uranus Aspects are more Explosive and Outward in 
effect 
SUN-CONJUNCT-URANUS 

The Sun conjunct Uranus is more than unstable, although 
the energies of the planets are in many ways very similar. It 


162 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


lets to presuppose that the partners will be out of the ordinary 
in some manner, since it inclines towards the unusual in taste. 
It isa yoke indicating originality, new ideas and does well for 
enterprises where new methods and somewhat eccentric 
processes are required. Unfortunately, this aspect is violent, 
eccentric and holds the threat of sudden dissolution of the 
relationship. The partners walk out on each other, sometimes 
with blows accompanying the departure; and the union is 
marred by the most erratic events. The only solution is to allow 
each participant much independence and freedom and to 
remember that the partnership cannot be static and smooth. 


SUN-OPPOSITION-AND-SQUARE-URANUS 


While the two aspects are not similar, the effects are just 
as drastic. The keyword is freedom. The persons possessing 
this kind of aspect will not work together if they feel in the 
least any kind of challenge to their ultimate domination of 
their immediate environment. Uranus of itself is not inclined 
towards partnerships; to behave in concert with others is 
galling solely because more than one person seems to be 
conforming to something. The cry of the Uranian is — and we 
have heard it— "/ am consistent in my inconsistencies." 
Unfortunately, this clarion declaration is usually proclaimed 
to empty air, since by this time, their audience has evaporated 
in the direction of more "consistent" signs. 


The square is the mush more destructive of the two 
aspects; but the clue to getting on with it is to be prepared for 
the very swift changes of the Uranian partner. The Sun will 
always stand rather four-square, while Uranus runs around 
it. We found that this combination parts and comes together 
with regularity; but if Uranus shows continually that it resents 
the Sun neutral position as the fulcrum of the union, the 
relationship will disintegrate. 


There are a series of aspects that are regarded partiularly 
unfortunate when found between potential mates. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 163 


MARS-CONJUNCT-SATURN 


This one is considered one of the most potent for mischief; 
but only when it is found between really undeveloped people, 
it does incline towards personal violence. Saturn has a facility 
for knowing the vulnerable spot of Mars and quite often eggs 
it on, only to rein it in suddenly. The ultimate is that Mars, 
not quite sure of its powers, yearns to demonstrate them 
concretely, sometimes by the simple expedient of a blow in 
the teeth. 


It does have a constructive side that is readily apparent to 
those who are able to apreciate it; and that is cooperation and 
foundation in action and planning —Saturn to plan and Mars 
to execute. It is finally, a case where collaboration at the same 
speed is necessity. Once that is established, the union is 
assured at least on that level. 


MARS-SQUARE-SATURN 


We really find this onea tooth-grinding aspect, and it does 
bring out the very worst to the people who share it. Neither 
seems to give in to the other on most of the elementary issues, 
mainly because the desire of each is to retain power over the 
other. Saturn frustrates Mars by insisting on a slow digestion 
of problems and at the same time infers a distrust of Mars 
motivations, which cannot help sustaining the partnership 
built on quick sand. Unfortunately, Mars, in the bursts of 
enthusiasm, does not mean all that it says; and Saturn insists 
on holding it,to its promises and statements. In marriage, such 
portents are dire unless Saturn is less rigid. Mars must be 
given more carrying out its actions without leaving out 
essential parts of the pattern, which it is very prone to do, for 
its sins are those of omission and carelessness. 


MARS-OPPOSITION-SATURN 


We have a much more flexible meeting ground in this 
mutual inter-change, for an opposition implies that some 


164 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


qualities lacking in the one may be found in the other. In this 
instance, Mars brings Saturn out and dissolves its fears about 
the course of the actions that Saturn is engaged in planning. 
Saturn provides a bulwark for Mars to return to, when it is 
tired of going about in the world. On the debit side, Saturn 
must not downgrade Mars dreams and desires and wishful 
thinking; and Mars should regard Saturn as a rectifier of 
mistakes he may make because of his habit of cutting corners. 
It is bit more favourable if the Mars belongs to the feminine 
member of the union. 


MARS-CONJUNCTION-URANUS 


There is a considerable evidence to substantiate that you 
cannot get along for long with someone whose Mars afflicts 
your Uranus, and it is borne out in the majority of cases at 
hand. It does not produce explosions as much as it gives rise 
to long series of irritations and annoyances, quarrels and sharp 
words that in time kill the union. The more time persons 
possessing this conjunction spend together the more 
dangerous the ultimate result. They must be out and around 
others, as this acts as leavening to the relationship. This is the 
pair who spend hours thinking up the next sharp retort. 
Whether there is a quarrel in view or not, they store up 
ammunition. Unless something from the outside intervenes 
to head it off, they will provoke a fight so that they can use it. 
This conjunction does well in any undertaking where speed 
and motion are required, as well as in any pioneering 
endeavour; but it needs the soft answer continually and room 
where each can retire and take a deep breath when the battle 
threatens. 


MARS-SQUARE-URANUS 


While this is more violent than the conjunction but it has 
the saving grace that one of the partners if usually unable to 
keep the battle going at a sustained level—as a rule, the 
Uranus —and leaves the scene. Quite often though, the 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 165 


decamping member keeps on going —and that is the end of 
the marriage. One of the partners, usually Mars, does not seem 
to count on the continued good-will or support of Uranus 
and continually insists on testing. Uranus resents to give proof 
of anything and the war is on. This is really an adverse aspect 
unless there is a Venus or Jupiter influence to calm it down. If 
not, then the only solution is to realise that there is such a 
thing as fighting constructively and learn the art; otherwise, 
the partnership is destroyed —oftenbetween people who are 
really meant for each other, barring this one conflict. 


MARS-OPPOSITION-URANUS 


This is short-circuiting aspect in that it manifests as a sort 
of "I will move if you will move." Most of the time, no one 
moves; so it ends as a stalemate. This aspect is not as violent 
as the preceding ones, although an extraordinary amount of 
manoeuvering is possible from Mars, in which case Uranus 
just steps out of the way of the stratagem and pursues the 
course it was on when so rudely interrupted. Uranus tries to 
dominate by a kind of horrible unreasonableness, which only 
stirs Mars to wrath. Discussion is the only answer, and it works 
quite well when both partners agree to it. 


MARS-CONJUNCTION-NEPTUNE 


This aspect is by reputation unwordly, weird and 
psychologically detrimental between marital partners. We 
think that much depends on other planetary factors in the 
two charts. It is almost predominant in the emotional area 
and has theeffect of stimulating the Neptunian individual to 
sometimes unsafe heights. On the other hand, Neptune can 
hold Mars in a vice of sensationalism, which keeps it away 
from seeing the depths to which it may sink. It is fortunate, 
though, for people who desire to work together on some really 
uplifting project and who also have some more hard-headed 
contacts; but it does drift and, if not kept on a high level, may 
eventually degrade the relationship. 


166 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


MARS-SQUARE-NEPTUNE 


Deceit rears its head here because of false emotionalism 
between the persons. Neptune does not feel what it professes 
to feel but, for purposes of its own, pretends; and Mars believes 
what Neptune wants it to believe and, in most cases, is the 
one who possess the point. It is not good between partners 
precisely because it produces a nebulous kind of tie that does 
not seem to ground itself in the emotional realm. Business 
may be wonderful, the home resplendent and all outward 
things seemingly in harmony; but, inwardly confusion reigns. 
Unless some outside help is forthcoming, the partnership is 
doomed on the level of feeling because of its spurious nature, 
for neither partner has enough insight into the nature of the other. 


MARS-OPPOSITION-NEPTUNE 


This is more an aspect of temperament than emotion. 
Neptune finds it difficult to make up its mind about Mars 
interests; and Mars wishes to pull Neptune out of its limitless 
concerns, where it has a propensity to travel around ina cricle, 
to an active situation. Neptune always fears the light of day 
on his enterprises unless he knows the Sun is ready to set in 
the moment he comes out. This aspect is much more easily 
resolved than the others, as there is just a need for Mars to 
realise that an oblique rather than a direct approach will 
ensure Neptune's eventual response. There is a school that 
persists in alloting a supreme degree of subtlety to Neptune, 
while in the majority of instances it is only confused. 


Saturn in aspect to the larger planets has a long-term effect; 
and for this reason, the damage is not seen until it is too late. 
It chips off a bit here and a bit there so imperceptibly that the 
structure is worn without anyone noticing that the building 
is crumbling until it falls. 


SATURN-SQUARE-SATURN 


This is the most limiting of these aspects, for the 
individuals concerned for both right in their way. It is not the 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 167 


situation of one being slipshot and the other perfection, for 
they both arrive at the same goal, but by different paths; the 
method is that provokes the strife. It is on its most malefic 
side, a fight to finish, with each intending to reduce the other, 
whatever may be the outcome. This impass of the emotions 
can only be resolved on the basis of live and let live. Should 
there be a Saturnian affliction in the individual charts, then 
the person involved will press his points because of a feeling 
of inferiority. Finally, the couple can live together in a 
reasonable amount of harmony if they realise that the trick is 
for the one to do what the other has not the inclination of the 
talent to perform. 


SATURN-OPPOSITION-SATURN 


This aspect is frustrating between partners because one 
assumes that there is an appreciable difference in age between 
them. It is especially so if one partner has Saturn in his or her 
7th house at birth, for he/she is already restricted in 
partnerships, martial or otherwise. There is not too much 
emotions in this alliance, although there may be considerable 
amount of protectiveness in the relationship. The danger is 
that each partner may be so contained with himself that the 
union looks more a business arrangement than a marriage, 
and indeed this aspect is often found between people whose 
marriage is one of convenience. 


SATURN-CONJUNCTION-URANUS 


Saturn tends to feel circumscribed by the independence 
and unconformity of Uranus but all the same respects its 
freedom-loving ways. Uranus, when it is working on its best 
side, is quite good for Saturn, for it is the master of quick 
action and in material matters is an aid to Saturn, who might 
otherwise delay too long and lose the prize altogether. In 
marriage, it is an inspiring contact; but care must be taken 
that Uranus does not push Saturn just to show its strength, 
for there are times when delay is just as valuable as speed. It 


168 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


is somewhat more fortunate if the Uranian is the female half of 
the team, as distaff intuition is very useful on behalf of Saturn. 


SATURN-SQUARE-URANUS 


Marital concerns suffer, under this aspect, from an excess 
of Uranus freedom coupled with Saturnian restriction. There 
are times when freedom falls to license, and Saturn's ultra- 
restraining capacities seem to come out more so in this 
combination than in any other. The capricious attitudes of 
Uranus manifest in a deliberate attempt to shock Saturn; for 
this reason, the alliance is in perpetual hot water. If Saturn 
can turn a blind eye to the Uranian behaviour and ignore it as 
one overlooks the attention-getting tactics of the child who is 
holding his breath continually to bring you into line, the 
relationship has a chance of survival. 


SATURN-OPPOSITION-URANUS 


This aspect is interesting from the viewpoint of discipline, 
for it is quite often that Uranus will beg or otherwise indicate 
the desire for Saturn to keep it in line, realising that it has to 
be checked occasionally. Uranus never wants to restraint itself; 
all the same, however, it knows that one cannot always be 
changing, most of the time to no purpose; there has to be a 
boundary line somewhere. Frequently, Saturn is asked to 
draw the ring-pass-not; and Saturn by request is much more 
successful in fulfilling it than it would be if inspired by its 
own exclusive inclinations. 


SATURN-CONJUNCTION-NEPTUNE 


While such a combination between marital partners occurs 
with regularity, it is not likely to be too important unless one 
of the partners has an exclusively Saturnian approach towards 
life that is basically material and the other one is Neptunian 
to excess in its emotionalism and psychic attitudes. It is a 
negative aspect and promotes a certain indifference in feeling 
in both. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 169 


SATURN-SQUARE-NEPTUNE 


Saturn in this combination can scarcely restrain itself from 
stamping almost literally upon Neptune, who retaliates by 
evading Saturn altogether. It is not a good aspect between 
partners for money matters, for Saturn will use the 
withholding of material benefits as a punishment, and 
Neptune will then plot ways and means to get it out "by hook 
or crook". It is a true aspect of deception when found between 
individuals of low moral calibre; for the union is usually 
consummated with visions of monetary gains as the ultimate 
advantage. It often turns out that each finds the other is not 
what was represented. Another facet of this aspect is that of 
seeing foolish and very gullible occult ladies give large sums 
of money to "masters" who need it to get in touch with "the 
force." Neptune may be very inept in handling itself, and 
Saturn has no hesitancy in appointing itself guide and mentor. 
There is need for stronger and more fortunate placements 
between charts to mitigate the deplorable manifestations of 
this one. 


SATURN-OPPOSITON-NEPTUNE 


Unless the aspect is very close in degree, the general effect 
is a rather diffused difference of opinion upon life's spiritual 
or material values. If the aspect is close, then Saturn takes the 
reverse view of the Neptunian philosophy of trust in the 
Unseen and trusts in his gilt-edged bonds. Often Neptune 
becomes a bit more practical and Saturn a little more reverent, 
which is all.to the good. It is much better than the conjunction 
in effect and can never be as frustrating as the square is apt to 
be. 


I have not included Pluto because of that planet's 
subterranean consequences. I know that it has an effect on 
marital relationships, but it does not enter into the unions 
contracted on those planes that I am concerned with in this 
present delineation. 


17 


Should | Get A Divorce ? 


This is probably the most serious question put to the 
Astrologer and one that should never be answered until the 
horoscopes of all people concerned are studied very carefully. 
Where there are children involved, the situation is more 
complex. Many divorces can be avoided if both parties consult 
a competent Astrologer. 


Today, many working wives are becoming exhausted of 
taking care of the home and also helping pay the bills. Some 
man where she works tells her that she is doing too much for 
her husband and invites her to go out and have a good time. 
At first, perhaps the friendship is platonic only; but sometimes 
it advances up in something a lot more intimate. It is the 
woman who usally becomes conscious-stricken—the man 
goes on his merry way feeling that he has made a conquest 
and, as a rule, planning still another. 


Women do not understand this difference in the male and 
the female. Love is serious toa women, but men can treat it 
very lightly if it is convenient to do so. This is not a new 
psychology because it was also prevalent even in ancient 
times,Ovid mentioned it in his "Art of Love," written in the 
first century A.D. The human has never changed 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 171 


psychologically since the dawn of civilisation. Why should 
he when we consider that the same planetary aspects appeared 
in the heavens then too as they do today ? 


We must also admit that in some cases divorce is the only 
way to bring peace of mind to the person who has taken on a 
mate who was psychotic to start with. Alcoholics are in most 
cases hopeless, and marriage does not change them at all. 
Many will marry the alcoholic with the idea that after marriage 
he will change, only to find out that those hopes were baseless. 
Alcoholics get married thinking that marriage will change 
their craving for alcohol. This is also an illusion with almost 
all of them. 


Confirmed alcoholics do not care to go any such place 
where liquor is not served. The Neptunian complexes are 
usually found in their horoscopes which make them live at 
all times in the dream world of alcohol. This is their escape 
from the pressures and realities of life. Seven out of every ten 
letters I receive place the blame for their marital discord on 
the excessive drinking of their mates. 


Then, as night follows day, comes the admission that 
financial worries are becoming unbearable (drinking costs 
money). Also come complaint of beatings by drunken 
husbands. Many wives complain about the husband being 
impotent. This is one of the results of too much drinking, of 
course. 


“What has all this to do with Astrology. The alcoholic, the 
impotent man and the frigid woman have definite indications 
in their horoscopes; but if these indications are not congenital 
then perhaps it is the progressions which cause them. 


Astrology stands at the top of the list when it comes to 
pointing out the reasons for marital discord, you can be sure. 


Here is an example of a case: "Would you be kind enough 
to answer my letter and tell me what to expect from my mate 
in future ? He has been unfaithful in the past. He lies to me 
and isa sneak. | try my best to be congenial. He expects me to 
act and dress in a way that I will be admired by other men; 


172 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


but if I even treat other men in a friendly manner, he raves 
and fights with me. At times I wish I could sprout wings and 
fly away from it all. He is moody and mean and is always 
smiling to himself as if he were up to something. I try my best 
to be a good wife. I have told over and over that others do not 
see how I put with him at all. I have seven children, and four 
of them are married. 


"IT have covered up many times for my husband's 
unfaithfulness because I did not want my children to know. 
My 23 years married life has been a nightmare, and I do not 
think I can endure it much longer." One of her other letter 
she said that although she is little over forty-four, she is often 
taken for 32 or 35. That last remark is very significant to anyone 
who has studied the psychology of the woman in menopause. 


Here are the solar maps of wife and husband as no birth 


time given. 
| Pluto 4° 
Saturn 24° 
Wife - 
eee foe] | 


The first thing to do, is to scan the horoscope of the one 
making the complaint, which I did. Here we have a woman 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 173 


in the menopause period of life. She feels that her charms are 
fading; hence, she mentions that she is often taken for 32 years 
of age. Of course, she could have other reasons for saying 
that; but the subconscious mind is subtle one. With her Venus 
in Scorpio applying to the square to Uranus, which gave her 
strong sex desires. She mentions that her many years of 
marriage have been a nightmare; and when we look at what 
the husband has in his horoscope, we can believe that. 


Although she has seven children, she has not been satisfied 
wih her husband due to the fact that when she married him 
his Venus was moving but 12 minutes per day and gradually 
going retrograde. It is now completely retrograde and will 
remain that way for many years to come. The progressed Sun 
in his horoscope is conjunct his natal Venus; so he gets the 
idea that the pastures will be greener if he looks around a 
little; but he is chasing a rainbow, which no doubt his 
experimentation has already shown him. This is doubly sure 
because his Venus in its retrograde journey has now reached 
the position of his natal Saturn. 


His progressed Mars has just passed the square of his 
natal Mercury, which has not added to his enjoyment of life 
either. In his natal chart, he has Mars and the Sun square. He 
must be hard to get along with. Men who have Venus 
retrograde in their horoscope are always hard to get along 
with, as many women who have married them will confirm. 


Before I place the blame on this husband, let us take 
another look at the wife's horoscope. She has Jupiter and 
Saturn square, in addition to the square of Venus in Scorpio 
to Uranus in Aquarius. I have noticed that this has a tendency 
(or shows a tendency) towards diseases of the generative 
organs. Many women with this affliction have had 
hysterectomies or other surgery on their generative organs. 
Here we also see Saturn in Cancer, which adds to the danger 
of such health disturbances. In about another year, her 
progressed Sun will have come to an opposition of her natal 


174 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Neptune; and that spells more trouble for her. 


Certainly, she has not much to look forward to. This 
opposition added to her natal square to Venus and Neptune 
adds up to the trouble — very likely trouble of her own making. 
She married a man who is rapidly becoming impotent; in fact, 
he has been going that way for several years. Her Venus in 
Scorpio makes such a mate almost an impossible one. I have 
a good idea as to what she will do when that progressed Sun 
reaches its opposition to Neptune. 


I now have another letter which is right to the point: "I 
wrote you recently about my husband's not working at that 
time; you answered saying that I had no need to worry about 
that, as he would get a good job soon. Since that time, he has 
got a good job but has started to drink and has another woman. 
There has been a legal separation. Is a divorce indicted and 
who is to blame ?" Solar charts of husband and wife are as 
under— 


4 
Sun ranus 17° 
Venus 
Mercury 
Pluto Mer 25° 
Wife Plato 11° j 
Mars 3° | 
Nep 17° 
. s Saturn 14° 
Jupiter 9°) soon 10° 
Mars 20° 
sin Sune enw 
Mars 4 Moon 5°) 


Plute 4° 
Jupiter = 


Za 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 175 


In reply to the wife's question as to whether a divorce is 
indicated, I would have to say that it is not if the birth dates 
she sent are correct. She with the square of Venus and Saturn 
at birth, and he, with his progressed Mars square Saturn, do 
not exactly spell domestic tranquility. I know of one woman 
(a Cancerian, too) who divorced one man and then married 
another one and during most of her second marriage lived a 
brother-sister existence. She had that Venus-Saturn square in 
her birth-chart, too. On the other hand, the husband was born 
when Mercury and Saturn, Saturn and Mars were trine. 


At the time the wife wrote me, Neptune was transiting 
over Jupiter in her natal chart, adding to her normal confusion. 
Very likely, she was not feeling too well either. She asks, "Who 
is to blame?" She married an Aries man. Cancer is too sensitive 
for Aries in most of the cases. If he is drinking and running 
after other women, it is not shown in his natal chart—he is 
doing it to escape from an intolerable condition in his home; 
if the wife is creating this condition, then of course she is to 
blame. The husband's Mercury and Mars are in conjunction 
in his natal chart, coupled with his Sun in Aries plus that 
progressed square of Mars and Saturn, would make him very 
pugnacious now; and that is too much for Cancer. But I do 
not think they will divorce. 


Here is another case where the wife could have gone to 
psychiatrists, marriage counsellors and what have you and I 
doubt if any of them would have detected the main reason 
for her marital troubles. When I read her letter, I suspected 
the reason* Most complaints are based on legitimate 
astrological aspects in the horoscope; and after chasing down 
the causes of marital troubles in hundreds of cases, one gets 
to the point where he can almost set up a chart by what the 
person complains of. In cases like the following, the wife 
seldom tells the real reason for her troubles. 


"My husband left me about a month ago, and I am eight 
months pregnant. I was told to have him arrested, but of what 


176 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


good would he be to me if he were in jail? We have a lot of 
bills and have filed for bankruptcy, but we do not have the 
money to go ahead with it. When he left me, he was running 
around with a friend of mine—at least, I thought she was my 
friend. My husband says I never acted like I loved him, 
although I have tried in every way to show him that I did. I 
think that if we had not had too many bills, we would have 
go along and he would not have run away. He says he wants to 
come back and start afresh, but people tell me he just wants to 
wait until the baby is born and then he will take off again. 


"Do you think that we can get together and work things 
out now ? I have worked for four years. Will he ever stop 
chasing around. He always said he did not chase around with 
women, but I know different. His mother always kept him 
tied to her apron strings, and perhaps that is why he is sowing 
his wild oats now." 


First of all, this young woman has a retrograde Mars at 
birth which just recently started direct but is going only 3' per 
year by progression. She did what women with a retrograde 
Mars do—she married a younger man, putting her in 
competition with younger women. Her retrograde Mars made 
her rather frigid, giving her younger competitors a big 
advantage over her. 


Further more, this young woman was born with two 
strikes on her. In addition to the retrograde Mars, Venus was 
square Neptune from the 7th house of marriage. Saturn in the 
4th was in opposition to Neptune in the 10th. Neptune has 
now retrograded to the exact square of Venus in her 7th, 
showing the trickery and deceit of her marriage partner — 
something any good Astrologer could have told her would 
happen if she married this man. 


The wife gave her birth time, but did not know hour of 
birth in her husband's case. But on looking at the husband's 
progressions, I find that the Sun will make an exact conjuction 
with Uranus in his natal chart in about two years; and this 


Astrology in Marriage Counselfing 177 


does indicate that he will be sowing wild oats for at least five 
years more. So she has nothing much to look forward to. In 
this case, I can advice divorce as the wife is still young. I think 
that it will happen, in as much as the wife has Venus in a dual 
sign and she has been married but once. I hope she knows 
enough reason to marry an older man the next time. 


Their solar charts are as under— 


Sun 4° 


mz ae 
> 


Jupiter 
LoS ON| ere nen 
oe Aas Uranus 4° 
Mars 25° {Moon 22° 


The husband has an opposition of Venus and Neptune, 
and this falls in her 4th and 10th. He also has Mercury square 
Jupiter, this adverse aspect falling in her 2nd and 4th houses. 
The sooner she gets out of that marriage the better for all 
concerned. 


Marriage falls apart when there is no sexual compatibility, 
too many bills for the income to take care of and excessive 
drinking which costs a lot of money these days. The heavy 
drinker who was born when Mars and Saturn were in adverse 
aspect is the kind who becomes mean and beats his wife when 


178 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


drunk. Sickness which lasts a long time also contributes to 
divorce. Mental illness is the worst of all because the real 
reason is not always known at the time of the divorce. Many 
divorces should not be allowed for this reason. In some cases, 
people are not mentally capable of marriage and the marriage 
should not be allowed. 


"I have always believed that the changing position of the 
stars affect our daily lives. I am writing this feeling as if 1 am 
telling my personal troubles toa psychologist or psychiatrist. 
I am very troubled. I am 32 years old—born February 11, 
1929—and have four children. What I would like to know is 
whether my health will recover for the better soon. I have felt 
terrible since I had my first child. 


"All these years, I have just dragged through life trying to 
stay with it, always hoping I would feel better some day. Four 
children in six years have been to much for me. I have never 
been able to take care of my children, my housework or 
anything properly because I always feel so bad. Due to many 
financial difficulties, I have felt that I could not afford a doctor 
often enough. I went to one about a year ago, and all he gave 
me were some pills and shots for my nerves; they did not 
help me at all. I got bill for over one hundred rupees which 
we thought we would never get paid. 


"I would like to go to some place if we could afford it. We 
moved to a town, but that did not do me any good either. If I 
try to plant a garden, I fall over — must be low blood pressure. 
The time of my menstrual cycle brings on so much pain that I 
think I should have a hysterectomy. Do you think I will get 
better?" 


About the first thing which came to my mind on reading 
this letter was a retrograde Mars in her horoscope. I was 
partially right about this because Mars at the time of her birth 
was moving only ten minutes per day in orbit. For three 
months before she was born, Mars was retrograding and 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 179 


turned direct only two weeks before her birth. Of course, it is 
still less than normal (24' per day). 


When a woman consults me who has had a hysterectomy, 
I first look for a retrograde Mars in Scorpio and perhaps 
afflicted by Saturn. In this case, Mars was in Gemini and 
opposed by Saturn in Sagittarius. Her Sun originally in 
Aquarius squared Mars by progression two years ago. 
However, the progressed Sun is applying to a square of Saturn 
from Pisces. This makes a five-year period between the exact 
Mars square and the Saturn square, and I have noticed that 
the adverse period usually lasts until the last square has been 
reached in cases of this kind; so she has not seen the worst of 
her case yet, in my opinion. 

Her Mercury has not porgressed to the opposition of her 
natal Neptune, and she has become panicky about her 
condition. Perhaps she is exaggerating her feelings. Saturn is 
also moving up to the progressed opposition of her progressed 
Mars. It is no wonder she is in a panic, as her letter shows. If 
the husband is not told of her true condition, there is likely to 
be divorce in this case, too. 


I advised her to place herself under the care of good 
gynecologist as soon as possible but try to skip that 
hysterectomy because the retrograde Mars indicates that there 
is something deficient in her endocrine glands and that 
operating out of something might cause more trouble— which 
I have seen in many cases such as this. 


Women with a retrograding Mars need careful and special 
treatment. (I have always been a believer in proving theories 
with facts, and the clinic is the best way to arrive at facts in 
Astrology as well as medicine). The combination of the coming 
adverse aspects could mean suicide in this case. If something 
happens once or twice coincident with a certain aspect, it does 
not mean much; but if it happens one hundred times under 
certain astrological conditions, it does mean something. That 
is my idea of astrological practice. 


Was that Divorce necessary ? 


About half of the several hundred thousand divorces each 
year could have been prevented if the parties to the suit had 
consulted a competent Astrologer who understood the 
stresses and strains produced by Uranus, Mars, Saturn and 
Neptune when making adverse aspects to Venus, the Moon 
or the Sun. Sometimes Jupiter also enters into the picture. 


"Although I divorced my husband two yeas ago, I have 
not forgotten him and I think I still love him," said one woman 
not long ago. She said in words what many others have told 
me by their actions. One thing prominent in all these cases 
where divorce is regretted is the fact that they sued for divorce 
under an adverse aspect of Uranus. Sometimes this aspect 
was from the progressed Sun. In many cases, Venus was in 
adverse aspect to Uranus in the birth-chart. 


Although I have also seen Uranus and Venus in adverse 
aspects in the birth-charts where there have been no divorce, 
I have found that these people stayed with their mates only 
by what they thought was extreme sacrifice on their part. The 
urge to break the marriage ties was always there. Nor have 
they even been under the pressure of a progressed Sun in 
parallel or in adverse aspect to Uranus which might have 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 181 


given them the extra impetus to go for a break. Believe it or 
not, I have found that about half of my complaining clients 
were themselves to blame for their marital troubles. These 
had to be told the facts regardless of how much the facts hurt 
them. The doctor who sees a case of cancer must tell his patient 
the truth if the patient is to be helped. 


A person suffering from a parallel of Mercury and Saturn 
or an adverse aspect of the progressed Mercury or the Sun to 
the natal position of Saturn usually recites long lists of troubles 
and abuses coming from others, especially the marriage 
partner—who, of course, happens to be the closest in 
association. 


In most of these cases, divorce seems to be the only way 
to end their imagined troubles. Even suicide is often 
contemplated. Here is where the Astrologer can point out that 
their troubes are about over and that divorce will be of no 
help and neither will suicide. The mental condition must be 
changed by engaging in some philosophy which makes the 
person an extrovert instead of an introvert. He must be made 
to realise that his present troubles are not worst than many of 
his past troubles were but the adverse Saturn aspect gives 
him the feeling that the worst is yet to come. 


Then there is the woman who meets a man where she 
works and believes that just because he talks gently to her, 
buys her a few things and proposes clandestine meetings, he 
is head over heels in love with her. Looking the horoscope of 
this womansyou find some Uranian involvement, usually 
temporary; the whole romance (?) blows up in her face 
eventually. Her husband hears about it and a divorce follows. 
Whose fault was it ? The answer is obvious. 


The same situation often arises when Venus comes to a 
progressed adverse aspect of Neptune. In any case, if the 
husband had consulted a competent Astrologer, he might have 
been told that his wife's conduct was only a temporary lapse 


182 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


and that it might never happen again, especially if no adverse 
Uranus aspects were to be found in her natal chart. 


The most tragic infatuation seems to come from adverse 
Venus-Neptune aspects. When this is found in the natal chart, 
the native seems to be the victim of misplaced affections most 
of his life. Neptune in the 7th house also seems to bring the 
same complications in marriage. 


The transiting Neptune in opposition to the natal Sun and 
of Venus may cause temporary troubles in married life. The 
effect can be of a year's duration; of course, divorce under 
such conditions should be discouraged. One cannot form 
logical conclusion under this influence of Neptune. The mind 
see mirages. Divorce under such circumstances usually leads 
to future regrets. One's mind should be clear of all delusions 
before divorce is decided upon. The victim of Uranus, Saturn 
or Neptune does not function with a clear and logical mind. 


The foregoing is but a brief discussion of the inadvisability 
of divorce while under the influence of adverse astrological 
aspects. There are other complications also. But perhaps it is 
better to go on to the cases where divorce is a necessity. 


Squares and oppositions tend to create a neurotic 
temperament and often lead to severe alcoholism. If the 
alcoholic was born when Uranus and Mars were in adverse 
aspect, he or she could be dangerous while under the influence 
of alcohol. The same holds true with the person who has Mars 
and Saturn adverse, while under the influence of alcohol. 
Alcohol has the tendency to release the person from the restraint 
of inhibition. He does many things which when sober he would 
not do. 


A transit over the place of the adverse Mars, Uranus or 
Saturn brings out the adverse character of the aspect. His or 
her will-power to control the congenial aspect is gone, and 
the one to suffer most is the marriage partner. Sometimes the 
children also suffer from the furious outbursts of temper 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 183 


during the spree. Crimes of violence by these people are the 
matters of police record. Cases where women are involved 
are usually complicated by severe afflictions to the Moon from 
Uranus, Neptune and Mars. Such persons should never use 
alcoholic drinks of any kind. 


I have heard hundreds of stories of severe beatings from 
wives of men with such aspects in their birth-charts. The 
sooner such a marriage is broken up, the better for all 
concerned. 


But here is the sad part of the whole story. Once the divorce 
becomes final, the neurotic looks around for another marriage 
partner; the new partner then becomes another victim of 
viciousness. A neurotic finds it extremely difficult to live alone. 
Perhaps he must have some one handy to torture. This applies 
to the female neurotic as well as the male. 


Some neurotics marry four or five times during their life. 
This is not unusual because while inspecting the horoscopes 
of ex-wives and ex-husbands, it is common to find the same 
psychological types portrayed in all of them. That may be the 
reason for the numerous divorces. A neurotic personality is 
interested only in another neurotic if one's experience is of 
any value at all. 


If the Astrologer finds a well-balanced horoscope tied up 
with the typical neurotic's horoscope, it is his duty to inform 
the client who may not have realised the cause for his or her 
domestic trouble. Being mentally ill is an illness, the same as 
stomach trouble or any other physcial ailment. If the client 
shows deep neurotic indications, then it is the duty of the 
Astrologer to advise psychiatric treatment. 


In the field of marital troubles, the Astrologer deals mainly 
with female clients. In many cases, it is the complaining party 
who really is at fault and should be told so. One doctor in a 
state mental hospital told me that the value of Astrology is in 
the ability to diagnose mental illness ina few hours, whereas 


184 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


it took him two or three weeks to determine the extent and 
nature of the illness. This is a challenge to all serious students 
of Astrology, who should by all means study abnormal 
pyschology as a valuable adjunct to Astrology. 


In these days when there are too many eager lawyers ready 
to get divorces for any kind of neurotic, based on hallucinatory 
complaints and injuries, the Astrologer can prevent the ever 
rising divorce rate by ascertaining whether or not the causes 
for a divorce are permanent or temporary only. If there is no 
hope for a change in behaviour, any competent Astrologer 
can tell that from a correct horoscope. Above all things he 
should be ethical enough to tell the truth and not sympathise 
with his client if sympathy is not the best course. To resort to 
flattery of a client is the usual procedure of the common 
fortune- teller and not the duty of the ethical Astrologer who 
respects his calling. 

The examination and analysis of hundreds of horoscopes 
has shown: 

1. Adverse aspects between the malefics create tensions. 

2. Adverse aspects between the Sun, the Moon and Mercury 
and the malefics create tensions. 

3. Tensions produce psychological urges which are the main 
cause of marital troubles. 

4. The kind and amount of troubles caused by these adverse 
aspects depend on the planets involved, the ability to 
withstand adversity (often based on Sun-Sign) and the 
degree of tolerance of the marriage partner. 

Emotional support is often as important as financial 
support. 


Can Your Wife Manage Money ? 


Most marital arguments start over money. And no 
wonder. Two people who marry for love may not see eye to 
eye on the cash question, and it is one of those problems that 
has to be battled out the hard way before anything 
approaching a suitable solution can be arrived at, and the 
dilemma is not always solved even then. The man may bea 
spender, the woman a budgeteer—or the bride may prefer 
fifty-rupee chapeaus, mink coat, or have a knack for social 
occasions that cut deeply into the family income. Your money 
handling technique throws light on your outlook towards 
things in general. Certainly lavish spending 1s fine if the man's 
income is abundant—but if he is just of middle group 
financially or even still struggling to reach that plane—sensible 
fiduciary juggling is in order. 


More often than not, the wife gets the job of juggling. How 
well is she doing ? Let us use astrology and find out. 


ARIES — Here is a wife who chaffs under any right 
budget restrictions and will spur her man on to millions if for 
no other reason than to get money off her mind. But given 
even the smallest weekly allowance to work on, she will turn 
in a miracle performance and have her man gasping at the 


186 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


corners the way she has managed to cut and save. While she 
may crave the leisure to turn her intellect towards pursuits of 
arts, she will dedicate herself to your welfare and to family 
prosperity until financial troubles clear up. But do not 
challenge her methods or insist on spending more than either 
of you can afford. If she has laboured till dawn over the 
ledgers, and you still insist on knowing "where is all going" 
she will drop your pay cheque in your lap and head for the 
door. She is neither miserly, nor characteristically frugal, but 
during emergencies she knows what to do. She will stretch a 
meagre income to its limits, and still have something left over 
for a movie. 


TAURUS — Men who have missed the financial boat 
seldom get very close to a Taurean girl in the first place. If 
your income runs into five figures — well and good. You have 
made a happy match and money will never materialise as a 
villain in your life. But if you are the constitutionally indigent 
type, you would better have a good excuse ready when rent 
time rolls around. Your Taurean wife will stand off the 
landlord just once. She won't work all hours over a budget, 
and won't tolerate even if you are willing to keep it yourself. 
What she wants is lavish living and a place in the Sun for 
you, herself, and the family. Money in your Taurean wife's 
opinion, is something that should be taken for granted. It 
should flow in steadily, and there should be no stinting, no 
stretching, no going without. She will take a job herself, if 
there seems no other way to beat the high cost of living. 


GEMINI — Gemini girl will almost break into tears if 
faced with a budget that won't work itself out, and it is 
definitely upto the man in the case to take over where money 
matters are the big concern. Provide plentifully for your 
Geminian wife, and a sad moment will never darken the days 
of your marriage. But if your income falls short, the problem 
will be right in your hands. You have married a very feminine 
woman, one who is willing to do her best to be everything : a 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 187 


wife and mother should be. She can darn your socks and keep 
your shirt collars whiter than snow —but burden her with a 
budget that is impossible from the start would be taking an 
unfair advantage. To be beautiful for you, she will spend a 
week's pay on a gown and afternoons at the hairdresser, but 
if you ask the cost you will leave her floundering because she 
just does not have the answer. Keeping up-to-date glamour- 
wise may eat up any income, but luckily for Gemini women 
they almost always pick men who head for the high tax 
brackets from the start. 


CANCER — Your Cancer wife feels it is her job to be wife, 
mother and companion. From the very beginning she relegates 
financial responsibilities to the man she married. He would 
better be on the ball. Men who cannot make money, or who 
cannot seem to climb to solid financial achievement seldom 
attract Cancer women to begin with. These shrewd Cancer 
girls are uncannily capable of picking the perfect mate. Sensing 
their own capacity for devotion and loyalty, and a cooperative 
spirit that borders on self-sacrifice, they do not dare make a 
mistake. Try, above all, to get your own home make her 
happier. Then, if the burden of meeting those monthly 
payments keeps you worried, you can bet your Cancer wife 
will understand. Do not be suprised if the kids are the first to 
be clothed in the finest or if junior gets the choice part to the 
steak. To the wife born under Cancer, the coming generation 
is all important. 


LEO —-Yes, during financial emergencies your Leo wife 
can keep a budget and pinch those scanty pennies—but do 
not make her do it too long. You have married a woman who 
looks to luxuries as necessities, and who will take the 
monarch's palace and day to that rustic little cottage by the 
stream. A leader in her circle, she will fight to uphold her 
regal autonomies even if the family budget blasted along the 
way. Your job—make money faster than she can spend it ! 
Actually, she can be your finest asset in your own climb 


188 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


towards financial respectability. She will keep a hard working 
husband "in the field" by dragging him out of bed on those 
"morning after” days and sending him off to his job with one 
eye closed and the other staring intently ahead. If fiduciary 
restrictions tighten to the unbearable point she will take job 
herself— perhaps as an extra in a TV show or as a fashion 
expert ina "carriage trade" shop. If her expenses are high, 
she nevertheless seldom gets "taken" on anything she buys. 
The furnishings she picks to brighten your home, make life 
worth living. 


VIRGO — She is an ambitious type of wife who can carry 
on a successful career right alongside her huaband. She 
marries and plans her future consciously, and there is never a 
moment in her life that she does not know exactly what she is 
doing. Mercury lords the sign Virgo, rewarding her with the 
sort of mentality that men always seem to find surprising in 
women. And if her personal income keeps her independent, 
she likes it that way. The man she marries must have not only 
the money making capacity, but intellect as well. She could 
never live with a conversational dud or an unread rustic. As 
a hobby, but only as a hobby, she will fiddle with a budget. 
Conscientiously, she may even try to keep within it. But if 
she suddenly sees the opportunity to buy out a library she 
has always wanted, or to take a foreign tour at bargain prices — 
those black and white figures won't mean a thing. 


LIBRA — It is simply impossible to bring the terms 
"money" and "Libra" together and have them mean anything. 
Money is a must in the Libra girl's life. A tight budget 1s killing, 
and to forestall any arguments on the matter she will hurry 
over to a model agency the sooner the subject comes up. The 
Libran wife will argue neither over money nor any thing else. 
The flurry of words certain to follow any comment on 
mishandled funds would bring either immediate tears or a 
nervous breakdown later. No, the Libran woman is made for 
the world of glamour, romance, love, harmony and happiness. 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 189 


Wedded to a man unable to bring his income up to satisfactory 
standards, her life could be all but ruined. Husbands have 
their work cut out for them. Regale your Libran wife with the 
best that money can buy. Keep financial worries in a deep, 
dark secret. And thank your lucky stars you have won the 
heart of a woman so attractive that you are an envied man 
wherever you go. 


SCORPIO — Here is a wife who will make a rupee work 
miracles, but who will start breaking things if the tension 
keeps up too long. She has the inexhaustible patience of a 
professional accountant and will search out bargains halfway 
across town to keep the bank account from shrinking to zero. 
"Making do" is her speciality. With an ingeniousness that is 
almost frightening she will turn discarded woollen goods into 
a patchwork quilt or trim dad's former Sunday trousers down 
to junior size. During those blackest of moments (when the 
man of the house thinks the last paisa has fled), she has a way 
of slipping five rupees Note from under the mattress or out 
of the teapot on the third shelf fromthe left — money concealed 
there months ago for just such an emergency. But financially 
speaking, she will stand for just so much and no more. 
Husbands of Scorpio women hand over enough to live on 
and comfortably. 


SAGITTARIUS - The Sagittarian girl looks forward to 
at least one extended tour to some far corner of the earth. The 
farther the better, and costs come under "incidental expences." 
She is dynamic daring and determined. While she does not 
worship wealth, she knows what money can do and learns 
early how to turn her bank book to the best possible 
advantage. The man she marries should bea go-getter. Money 
may often come up as a problem, but if financial emergencies 
loom in blackest aspect, she can turn her talents towards 
speculation market and make million—with typical 
Sagittarian insight, while veteran investors argue over the 
Traiff. She won't be outdressed, outclassed, or outdone in 


190 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


good works. As though a benign fate had charge of her 
accounts, prosperity is always the order of the day and her 
financial standing gets better year by year. Religion to your 
wife sometimes means providential returns in this world and 
a sure hope for the next. She is an inspiration to those in doubt, 
and an on-the-spot benefactress to the desperately in need. 


CAPRICORN — Some Capricorn wives carry thrift to 
extremes. Pressed for money in the youthful years, there could 
be a tendency to turn passionate over pennies, or delay a 
husband's earned retirement even though the mattress is 
padded with bills, the family strongbox chokeful of securities. 
The above would be a case of standard Capricorn caution 
carried to its wildest extreme. More surely, the Capricorn 
woman handles household cash with the practised care of a 
trained broker and lingers over a budget as though she were 
building a new business. The Capricorn wife may love a 
bargain for its own sake. Skilled in the age-old arts of trade 
and barter, she can pack the "extra income" drawer with a 
small fortune. To the husband who lacks faith, hope and 
courage, she is an inspiration, cheering him out of the 
doldrums with humorous tales —or actually taking charge of 
the office when he has to travel in search of new contracts. 


AQUARIUS — Your Aquarian wife is on the watch for 
an opportunity to increase your income—or hers. Independent 
and rather carefree, financial freedom means more time for 
reading, dreaming, inspirational dreams, orjust passing away 
the day in friendly conversation with every interesting 
stranger who crosses her path. People who think attract her. 
She will give ear to the rabble rouser one minute, the 
conservative fundamentalist the next, and learn something 
from both. The daily paper is second only to the Bible. She 
checks up on top world figures with an eye for error and a 
chiding word for bad diplomatic mistakes. Saturn, bossing 
Capricorn, is still somewhat in charge of Aquarius — so if your 
Aquarian wife turns surprisingly cautious at times, put it 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 191 


down to this tie-in influence. She manages money for the most 
part sensibly, scrimping when cash on hand is not, living up 
to the better income during boom periods. Whether fortune 
smiles or frowns, she keeps life exciting for the man she 
married. 


PISCES — Your Piscian wife takes life as it comes. She 
won't howl over a pay cut or go into hysterics over a nickle 
raise. When times are tough she can make the old hovel look 
like a king's palace, aided by nothing more than a twenty- 
five paisa paint brush and an imagination that knows no 
limits. Given the initiative, the time and the funds she will 
change a drab kitchenette into a dream as modern as 
tomorrow. But even when cash is something, neither of you 
have seen for a long time, she can do wonders just by 
rearranging the furniture. Colour, drama and cheer are the 
watchwords of her home. Struck by another mood she will 
rob the retirement fund (if she must) to buy the gown that 
was made for her. Scrimping, stinting, bargaining and 
dickering won't wear her out as long as she believes her man 
is really doing his best to get ahead. The man's job here is to 
make that million in a hurry. 


How Thrifty is Your Wife ? 


Prospective husbands ought to give this some thought. 
Budgeting and shopping well are more than matters of luck. 
Some women are inherently more capable of handling money 
wisely than others. Some are naturally extravagant. Some 
never buy anything without forethought. Some know quality 
better than others. Some are apt to live for today, some to 
save for tomorrow. Some find economy difficult but their own 
earning power great. Some are apt to splurge on luxuries, 
others on food, still others on the things that show prosperity 
to their neighbours. 


Before you hand over pay-cheque to her, better consider 
her aptitudes and possiblities as manager of the family income. 


ARIES — If you can train the Aries wife to keep you posted 
on purchases —before, not after, financial transactions are 
closed —she can be a fine manager. She has an extravagant 
streak, it is true; but usually the budget comes first. 
Furthermore, when opportunities are lacking, she has a knack 
of creating them and can do wonders with the family income. 

Just keep an eye on her whims. Remember, she craves 
luxury and is inclined to buy expensive items on the spur of 
the moment. Never over-estimate your capabilities as a 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 193 


provider to her. 


She is apt to consider today first, tomorrow when it comes. 
Extremely optimistic about the future, she is not apt to save 
for a "rainy day". This may be upto you. 

She shops well, particularly for machinery. When 
purchasing a car, she is often more interested in what is under 
the hood than she is in the style or paint job. Then she keeps it 
in good repair. 

TAURUS — Practical in all things, the Taurean woman is 
an expert shopper. She knows quality and gets more for her 
money than those born in other signs. 

She prefers to buy the best, feeling that such articles will 
give longer and better service. But she knows a bargain when 
she sees one and does not hesitate to take advantage of such. 


In food, she buys top quality and choicest pieces and is 
usually an excellent cook and connoisseur of good food. 

Rest assured she can be trusted with the budget. She has 
more than her share of commonsense and will cooperate with 
you fully in all matters pertaining to the family's welfare. She 
is not apt to gamble, and she would much rather spend money 
on home and children than on herself. 


Thoroughness and concentration are the keynotes in 
everything she does. She will help you get ahead and collect 
your share of the rich material things of this world. 


GEMINI — A combination if the two preceding signs, 
the Gemini woman is an excellent planner and can draw up a 
budget much better than she can follow it. She can plan for 
tomorrow, but she 1s apt to live for today — thus, the capacity 
for regular saving is not apt to be one of her strong points. 


Unless compelled by necessity to adhere to a budget, she 
faces the ever-present temptation to fritter away money on 
any of the small expenditures which happen to strike her fancy 
rather than concentrating on saving for big things. If you can 
curb her tendency towards extravagance and limit the number 


194 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


of charge accounts she can have, you can improve her capacity 
for home management. 


CANCER — The house-wife born under Cancer is 
naturally very economical and conservative, despite the fact 
that the family food bill seems high. She never discards 
anything unless she is positive it is absolutely beyond repair. 


She likes a bargain and usually knows where she can get 
one. There are many instances in which she will never buy 
the best if the second best is a bargain. 


She can be very sacrificing and do without many things 
that she would like to have. To her, that is usually far more 
preferable is to work outside the home in order to make ends 
meet. 


She is apt to be satisfied with whatever you can provide 
so long as basic comforts are achieved. The showy side of 
prosperity is not something she hankers after. 


With her fine reasoning power, she can draw up an ideally 
workable budget. She can save money —and will! 


LEO — The typica Leo wife is wonderful home manager 
and a great help to her husband. She plans well and more 
than makes ends meet. She often expects her husband to have 
better-than-average earning power, but she just as often helps 
push him up the ladder of success. 


She nearly always buys the best and makes it sure that 
the thing is ever too good for her family. Then she takes good 
care of things. She likes a bargain if one comes along, but is 
not apt to look for one. Quality is ever important, and she 
chooses a name brand every time. But by economizing on some 
things, always deciding intelligently and by being highly 
industrious and eager for prosperity, she does tend to help you 
attain it. 


VIRGO — The Virgo wife can be economical; she can be 
extravagant also. It varies with your means, her age and with 
the logic of the situation. Also, like Leo, by being thrifty in 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 195 


some things, she spends freely on the things she considers 
important — practical things like fine, durable furnishings, 
good clothes for the family and college education for the 
children. 


Quantity is of great importance to her—it is quality she 
seeks in everything. She has excellent taste and shops well. 
Before making a purchase, she compares and ascertains all 
the facts and details pertaining to the desired object. 


Some Virgo women carry thrift in small things too far and 
appear actually parsimonious. But you can detect this type. 


LIBRA — The Libra wife has exquisite taste and buys 
lovely things —but you would do well to go shopping with 
her or at least help plan purchases because she tends to buy 
on the spur of the moment and then return the merchandise. 
Sometimes this is because she reconsiders values, sometimes 
because her varying enthusiasms are unpredictable, even to 
her. By next week, she may have lost interest in what she 
would have given her eyeteeth for yesterday. 


If she insists, you might let her attempt budget managing; 
but perhaps after the experiment, she would rather delegate 
the job to you. She wants to save and tries, but wise handling 
of money is not usually one of her talents. Remember, some 
of her impulsive purchases cannot be easily refunded, 
especially if she invests money in losing stock. 


If you handle the savings and let her manage the 
household money, her thrift will show up in better 
management. 

SCORPIO — The fact is the Scorpio wife likes to spend 
money. It gives her a feeling of power. But unlike Libra, she 
is shrewd about it and spends after deliberations. 

She would prefer to buy cases of canned goods at whole- 
sale prices and store them until needed rather than shop 
piecemeal. 

She informs herself well about desired merchandise prior 


196 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


to shopping. She makes comparisons and decisions silently, 
knows what she wants and likes to buy the best. Because of 
this, she gets some very good buys. In shopping as in other 
things, you can bet no one is going to deceive her; she can 
drive a sharp bargain. 


However, do not let her invest your money (or her own if 
you can help it). Chances are, she will lose it. She is apt to 
invest without asking the advice of those in a position to help 
her. 


SAGITTARIUS — It is almost impossible to predict to 
what extremes of either thrift or extravagance a Sagittarius 
wife will go, for this sign includes both the most industrious 
and thrifty women and those who are more at home at the 
racetrack and roulette wheel than in their own homes. 
However, these are extremes and the average Sagittarian wife 
is industrious and prospering. 


Like the Scorpion, she likes to spend, for it gives her a feeling 
of opulence. However, if her birth date falls on or near the 
Sagittarius-Capricorn cusp, she is more inclined to save money. 


The Sagittarian wife can usually figure out a pretty 
workable budget, on which allows large amounts to be spend 
on food and luxuries. Her natural economy in small things 
makes this possible. Furthermore, she usually has a happy- 
go-lucky attitude and is able to work hard, perhaps outside 
as well as inside the home—then she attracts money easily 
and saves it. 


CAPRICORN — The Capricorn wife is wonderful planner 
and manager. No matter how great and unavoidable the 
expenses or how small the family income or household 
allowance are she will save slowly but surely towards the 
goal of a desired appliance, improvement or situation. 


She is never wasteful. Infact, she is the type of girl who 


may one day hand over a surprise bank book —one in which 
she has been saving for years, always with the anticipation of 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 197 


pleasing you some day or perhaps coming to your rescue in 
case of need. You may wonder how it has been possible; but 
being naturally thrifty, she was never tempted to burn the 
candle at both ends. 


She shops well, looks for well-known and guaranteed 
products and plans her purchases in advance. She rarely buys 
impulsively. She would do a wonderful job of managing the 
family budget. 


AQUARIUS — How sensible the Aquarian wife is with 
money depends to a large extent on her age and degree of 
maturity. Once she has outgrown the recklessness of her 
youth — the free-spending, free-lending ways—she begins to 
understand that money means security,comfort, better living 
and sometimes even increased health for her family. Then 
she becomes sensible about money and can be utterly relied 
upon. She never becomes quite shrewd, but she manages to 
save money steadily and never incurs debts, she is not sure 
she can easily handle. 


She can be trusted with the budget because she pays every 
bill when due. She hates to be indebted to anyone. She is 
inclined to save for appliances and improvements before 
contracting for them —not after. 


PISCES — Finances are often a problem to Pisceans and 
the“average Piscean wife is not naturally thrifty. She is not 
shrewd, and responsibility for managing the family budget 
would only be a burden and an enigma to her. 


She is too extravagant and generous one day and then 
has to scrimp and save for days to make up for it. She is further 
inclined to let opportunities slip her by and lose even more of 
them because she does not make decisions quickly enough. 

Think twice before you hand over pay-cheque over to her. 
However, if you can enforce systematic savings, you can 
probably depend on her to handle the rest of the family income 
wisely. 


Wives in the Pay Line 


Until the turn of the 20th century, there were very few 
desirable jobs open to women—and fewer still to married 
women. Since then, the standard of living has changed. 
Attitudes have changed. The amount of time and labour 
required to keep up a home has been slashed. Job and career 
opportunities for women have snow-balled. 


An expert on Human Development says "Today, it is 
accurate to say that a woman, at various time in her life, will be 
both a homemaker and career girl. The average woman grows up, 
works, marries and has children - then works again at the same 
time she keeps her home running." 


Obviously most wives work becasue they want 
that extra pay cheque. The amazing part 1s, they rarely want 
it for mink coats or diamonds. They want it for such things as 
a radio, a TV, an automatic washer and dryer, vacation trips, 
adequate insurance coverage, dental and medical care, a rainy- 
day savings account, a reasonably reliable car and to say 
buying a home of their own. 


Now and then, wife goes to work for the wonderful feeling 
"my money" gives her—moreover she does not have to 
account for, penny by penny, to a book-keeper-type of 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 199 


husband (or, rarely, a stingy one). Frequently, the amount 
involved has little to do with the problem. It is more a case of 
differing attitudes towards money. 


A wife may have a strong creative ability that does not lie 
in the direction of home-making. She needs an outlet to avoid 
the tensions that are built up through frustration. Without an 
outlet, first thing she knows, she is taking it out on her husband 
and children—seldom deliberately. In these instances, the 
marriage is usually far happier when the wife spends her days 
working at whatever it is she craves to do. The pay-cheque is 
just an extra bonus. 


Some wives (especially Gemini natives) tend to get fidgety, 
irritable and rebellious when they are too confined. By nature, 
they need plenty of contacts with other people. If these wives 
are drawn to women's clubs, neighbourly visits or bridge 
parties, fine. But some of them crave the hustle and bustle of 
the business world. This is an emotional need rather than a 
financial one, but that does not make it a less-important need. 


Some wives work to escape loneliness. Their husbands 
are the type who do not talk much, seldom want to go 
anywhere and their idea of the perfect evening is watching 
TV with their shoes off. When these wives join the payline, 
they make friends, chat at lunch-time and coffee breaks, get 
things off their minds. They then, too, can be satisfied to sit 
and watch television. 


Some husbands appreciate the extra income that permits 
a better life. They pitch in and help with the husehold chores 
in true togetherness. Others get a feeling of belittlement when 
their wives go to work. Their masculinity is insulted. They 
feel their prestige has been lowered. They would rather get 
along in a pinch-penny manner and remain lord of the 
household. 


Then there are the husbands who feel guilty about their 
wives working, no matter how they rationalize, simply 
because they cannot altogether shake off the almost outmoded 


200 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


belief that a man worth his salt should be able to provide the 
good life single-handedly. It is especially hard for these 
husbands when their wives earn "caviar" paycheques. 


If you as a wife are vitally interested in making a go of 
your marriage, you should consider you husband's attitude 
towards a working wife. You should carefully weigh the pro 
and cons. If either or both of you have your horoscopes, study 
the 2nd, 7th and 8th houses carefully. If not, your husband's 
Sun-Sign will indicte his general attitude towards a working 
wife. Although you cannot logically expect to put your finger 
on specific problems from a Sun-sign alone, it does furnish a 
good bit of valuable guidance. 


The decision to work or not to work should not be made 
lightly. Once an additional income has been enjoyed for a 
while, it is quite a shock to give it up—and some wives have 
found themselves trapped by a higher standard of living. Once 
the family has had it, they cannot give it up. Also, if you have 
small children, you may find that your wonderful, glorious 
paycheque melts down to about 25% of its original size after 
you pay for the children's care. 


However, if this is what you really want to do, consider 
your husband's attitude first ofall. The way the trend is going, 
future generations won't have this problem; but it could easily 
be that you have it. 


ARIES — If you have an Aries husband who so far has 
taken it for granted a wife's place is in the home, he may 
explode at the first hint of your desire to join the payline. So ? 
Relax and enjoy the fireworks—just don't set offany ofyour 
own | Your Aries mate will soon simmer down and feel a bit 
of sheepish. Then is when you ruffle his hair and make your 
pitch. Then is the time to talk things out quietly. 


Of course, you may be treated with additional fireworks 
from time to time when earning that extra paycheque does 
not seem as important as a temporary something else. Again, 
your responsibility will be to keep away from setting off 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 201 


fireworks of your own. Remember, an Aries man is forceful 
and impetuous and explosive by nature—and deep down, 
you like him that way. 


TAURUS — Once you arouse a conservative Taurus 
husband's stubbornness, you are in for a bad time. However, 
if you remember it is natural for your mate to stick to opinions 
picked up from the older generation, you won't get off to a 
wrong start. 


One thing is certain—Taureans are not the least but stupid 
about money. If you will plant your seed gently and then 
quetly feed him the facts about working wives, if you will 
give him time to get used to the idea—you will find he will 
soon be thinking along the same lines as you are. If you are 
intending to work for a limited period only, better make this 
unmistakably clear and keep it that way. 


After a little while, working wife will seem natural to the 
Taurean. Unless you keep him reminded you are working 
temporarily, the idea of your quitting would come as an 
earthshaking event—not because he is greedy, but because 
he tends to establish habit pattern. 


GEMINI — A Gemini husband could easily be entranced 
with the prospect of a double income. It may never occur to 
him that you might be planning a nest egg instead of more 
money to gad about with. Whatever your objective may be, 
outline it clearly; but do not take it for granted that, that ends 
the matter. What if you are swerved from your course now 
and then ? There are worse things in the world than that. At 
least, your lively Gemini mate won't let you get stuck in a 
dreary rut. 


The chances are your beloved is not the fussy spic-and- 
span type; and if your housework is not always open to close 
inspection, it won't bother him. It may bother you, but be 
slow to cut down on social activities and gad about time in 
order to keep the house the way you like it. You may find he 
will run along and play without you. 


202 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


CANCER — You, wives with Cancer husbands, are on 
touchy ground. It is difficult to know what will and what will 
not hurt his pride. Much depends on the crowd you associate 
with — what they think about working wives. However, your 
sensitive Cancer husband likes the comforts, opportunities 
to entertain and security that come with an extra paycheque— 
especially as related to his home and loved ones. So there is 
your cue. Above all, do not rush him. He does not like to 
plunge into things; he would rather sidle upto them. 


After you are all set, do not slip —not even once—and say 
"my" money. Cancerian's memory is forever, and his 
resentment can be deep and dark. It would be most 
unfortunate if your job becomes a bone of contention. It would 
be quite inapt to put a brake on his progress — and before long, 
the two of you together might not make as much as he might 
have made alone. 


LEO — Your Leo husband is no doubt fondly indulgent; 
but it would not be wise to parade your earnings, even though 
he is not the sensitive type in most things. Let him do the 
parading in his inimitable Leo way. He will make you queen 
of the parade, of course, and that is much fun . 


If you have a special talent for a certain type of work and 
your Leo husband can be proud of your achievements and 
brag about them, you are all set. However, it is not likely to 
be in his nature to permit your accomplishments to belittle 
his. Since you obviously love the royal touch (you married 
him for that, did not you ?); do not cramp his style. Talk up 
the virtues of making a big splash—the kind of splash you 
want, of course, whether it is the best gadgets or the fastest 
growing savings account or the most enjoyable parties or 
being the best dressed couple. 


VIRGO — Your Virgo husband may take the fine edge 
off your enthusiasm with a detailed analysis of the situation; 
the extra clothing expences when a wife works; the small but 
numerous added costs stemming from a tight timetable; the 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 203 


effect that your working would have on your personal lives. 
After he gets through, at least you won't be setting out with 
heady illusions about your net gain. 


Your husband's ability to ferret out all the facts does not 
mean he is a whiz at making far-sihted decisions and carrying 
them through. It is a nest egg you are after, you are the one 
who will have to see that a certain sum gets tucked away for 
a rainy day. 

Something else to think about : How finicky is your 
Virgoan husband about his food and surroundings ? On the 
days you have "had it" (and when you work, those days 
always do crop up), do you think you will be able to let things 
slide and just throw something together for dinner ? 


LIBRA — Your Libra husband is probably all for peace in 
the family and won't blow up a storm no matter what he 
thinks about working wives. However, this peaceful attitude 
can be a two-edged sword; and you would be wise to steer 
clear of work that tends to leave you exhausted and irritable. 
Librans have a pure genius for squirming away from discord. 
They seldom stay around and take it—or fight it out. 


No one loves extra comforts more than Librans do. At the 
same time, the folding money that buys those extras must 
come from a source that does not disturb the peace. 
Furthermore, work that leaves you drained is not along the 
lines of your natural talents any way. You will please your 
harmony-loving mate if you choose so-called "nice" work. 
But if you can make more money in something else, do not 
forego it—you can always talk up the "niceness" of the firm 
you work for, your associates, surroudings, etc. 


SCORPIO — Your Scorpio mate may be inclined to 
jealousy, and that could grow into an oversize stumbling 
block. Like Caesar's wife, your behaviour is undoubtedly 
above reproach; but well have to be so in seeming as will as 
in fact. Aside from that, if your Scorpio husband backs you, 


204 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


he will back you all the way —including the assumption of a 
good portion of your household duties. If so, do not forget to 
notice and praise him! 


By nature he is strong-minded man, and he will most likely 
have very positive ideas on the uses of money. The time to find 
out whether you see eye to eye on this is before you get to the 
point where you have a pay cheque in hand. A Scorpio's dreams 
are difficult to shatter after they have had time to build up. 


SAGITTARIUS — Sagittarians love the freedom to make 
their own decisions. So your Sagittarian partner will most 
likely respect your right to decide whether or not you want 
to be a working wife. At the same time, he won't pull his 
punches. He will say exactly what he thinks, for or against. 
But even if he is against, he will remain loyal to you. Incidenly, 
be sure you are right before disregarding his advice. You 
know, Sagittarians have an uncanny knack of hitting the target 
right on the nose. 


If he heartily approves of your going to work, his 
enthusiasm may prompt him to hustle you up the ladder of 
success faster than you are wiling or able to go. On the other 
hand, as you have probably found out, he appreciates a wife 
who is willing to grab her hat and take off on the spur of the 
moment. Can you do it and work, too ? All in all, you won't 
find being a Sagittarian's working wife will be boring. 

CAPRICORN — if your Capricorn husband runs true to 
type, he isa planner and a seeker after material security. This 
being so, he is not likely to disapprove of your willingness to 
help. In fact, he may come to take it for granted —an attitude 
which is rather tricky for the average wife to handle. It is both 
a compliment and an aspiration. 


If your desire to work is related to having more freedom 
to splurge on fun or clothes or whatever, it would be a good 
idea to have this thoroughly understood. Otherwise, your 
serious minded Capricorn beloved may get wrapped up in 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 205 


vision of a bigger bank account, a quicker pay-off on your 
home or something else along these lines. Your job will be to 
convince him that cake is not cake without a frosting and that 
the freedom to splurge now and then is the frosting that 
sweetens life. 


AQUARIUS — An Aquarian husband can takea working 
wife in his stride and revel in the better way of life for all 
concerned. He can be a burden bearer if necessary; but no one 
understands better than he that freedom from financial 
stringency promotes mental, physical and emotional well-being. 


Being gadget-minded, he will readily go overboard for 
this and that new mechanical convenience if that is what you 
want. Since he loves to be with people, he will approve if 
your ambition involves entertaining, joining a club, etc. Yes, 
he is likely to be extravagant at heart; so if what you want is a 
nest egg, and he could not care less for eggs, a compromise could 
make you both happy. 


PISCES —If you have a Pisces husband, he will be quick 
to sense how you truly feel about his ability as a provider. If 
your attitude is right, he will love you for wanting to help 
and will redouble his own efforts. If he senses a secret belittling 
on your part, it will wreck him mentally and emotionally. 
This is because he is extremely idealistic — and romantic — and 
he needs to be needed. 


Many a wife who understands her Pisces husband 
manages to make him feel she is clinging vine when she is 
perfectly capable of standing on her own two feet. The 
adoration she receives in return is worth it to her. 


Yes, a wife can join the payline and still keep her Piscean 
feeling that he is the sturdy oak in her life—if she handles it 
right. The psychology of the thing is to cling a little closer and 
lean a little harder in other than financial matters. In monetary 
items, why not promote the "togetherness" of a double 
income? 


22 


Marnage After Fifty 


Though less glamorous outwardly than marriage among 
the young, marriage among the elderly is surprisingly 
frequent. The lonely-heart clubs and other similar places of 
rendezvous do a thriving business. All sorts of advertisements 
for soul mates, life mates, and idealistic partners where sex is 
no longer a consideration, are frequent in various publications, 
but especially so in the foreign press of the United States. The 
young seldom turn to Astrology for guidance, whereas the 
elderly more frequently avail themselves of this counsel. It is 
people, and especially eligible woman, past fifty who turn to 
Astrology in search of various anwers relative to marriage. It 
seems that if the young were as careful before taking the 
plunge, our divorce rate would have been much lower than 
at present. The wide variety of questions asked obviously 
confront the student of Astrology with many and often 
extremely delicate factors to consider. For those who desire 
but cannot affored the price of a consulation a very general 
view is offered here. 


As might be surmised, marriage in advanced years 
constitutes a highly important change. And change, as we 
know, is very definitely under the domain of Venus. It is 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 207 


seldom that an old bachelor past fifty will take a wife unto 
himself, except in rare cases for legal reasons, such as passing 
inheritance to a deserving lady, or possibly a servant. It is 
commonly a person who was married before, and under the 
disruptive ray of Uranus, either was divorced or bereaved 
through death, who deems it wise to remarry. 


The regular reader of astrological literature knows that 
Uranus stays in each sign about seven years. Thus it opposes 
its natal position during the separative interval of life, between 
forty-two and forty-nine. It is during this period that a person, 
often after rearing a family, is either widowed or divorced. 
So remarriage comes after fifty. This opposition is the 180 
degree angle. Should marriage or remarriage contemplated 
before this interval may be short-lived, if carried out. It is better 
to wait, unless several other mitigating factors neautralise this 
stellar condition. The next aspect Uranus makes to its natal 
position is that of 150 degrees, called both the inconjunct and 
quincunx. This has been interpreted to mean a sign of service, 
of consecration, devotion; and the interpretation seems to me 
to fit marriage after fifty. This is not saying, it is entirely 
benefic. It is slightly adverse; but the influence of the 
disruptive opposition is waning, and the next aspect is the 
restful trine. 


Whether consummated during the quincunx or square 
aspect, there will be some tendency to friction, and the type 
of friction would be shown by the sign Uranus is in. In Taurus 
it would point to trouble through possessions, property, lack 
of it, or quarrels about it when the two parties, for instance, 
cannot agree on how to settle the inheritance after they are 
gone. Women usually try to pass on property obtained 
through a second marriage to the children by a first marriage, 
which arouses in the husband and his family much 
resentment. Thus deeds, wills, contracts, leases etc., creep into 
the picture. 


208 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


Similarly Uranus in Gemini introduces various mental or 
psychological factors. There can be friction about general 
views on life, politics, perhaps quarrels about the car and how 
to get one or who should use it most. In Cancer, Uranus creates 
the setting for spats about the home, domestic conditions, 
decorating, and — inevitably — the will. Cancer rules the family 
and we all know that that is the enternal source of many 
misunderstandings. In Leo, Uranus can be expected to account 
for many marriage angles involving money and investments. 
These are not idle quotes of ancient rules. People ask these 
very questions, bearing on these very things. 


BROAD-MINDED AGREEMENTS .- It is well if both 
charts of the bride and groom show a few fine aspects at the 
time remarriage is planned. Otherwise there may be evasive 
features in the union which will in the true Uranian fashion 
strike like a bolt of lightening from a clear sky when other 
conditions make it no longer bearable to remain self-contained. 
Excellent is the condition where both parties are open-minded, 
frank and understanding. In regard to property, for example, 
the wife in certain sections of the United States automatically 
becomes owner of the home and the husband cannot sell it 
without her consent. But he has no rights whatever to her 
property. 

Such broad-minded agreement as is necessary to make a 
marriage successful after fifty is very much possible during 
the Uranian trine, which occurs between the ages of fifty-six 
and sixty-two. Although the remaining span of life seems to 
be short, such a marriage can bring deep satisfaction of 
spiritual quality, making for compatible mental unions. In 
the United States where Social Security payments are more 
generous now and where a little side money can be earned, a 
little home in the country side makes an ideal way to spend 
the rest of a life with a new mate. Marriage under this 
condition eliminates loneliness and conduces to poise and 
spiritual contentment, Furthermore, a community of interests, 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 209 


where it exists, make life at this time sweet and restful. The 
turmoil of the flesh should have outlived its period of activity, 
anger, rush, haste, intolerance should be history now. 


Another factor which makes this an ideal time to remarry 
is that at the age of fifty Saturn makes an excellent trine to its 
natal position, paving the way to security. After making a 
square aspect to its natal position, Saturn makes a sexitle and 
then a conjunction to its natal position at fifty nine or sixty. It 
is Saturn that rules the instinct of security, and perhaps a little 
bit of greed. But considering the age of the prosepective 
marriage partners, we could say to them, "You are old enough 
to know better." For unlike couples of twenty, couples of fifty 
eight to sixty are wise in experience and thus can readily see 
reality as it is. Saturn at this time takes you out of any so- 
called speculative investment and bids you invest the cash, if 
any, in a little cottage in the country where no panic or 
manipulation can make it disappear like a bubble. When 
Saturn conjuncts its natal position all gambling should be 
ended, and for the rest of the life your foundations should be 
utterly secure. From here on live on your laurels, stop pushing 
and grasping for more. If it is coming to you, you will get it. 


Jupiter is our final factor in the security set up upon which 
our marriage after fifty must be based. The positions of this 
planet are easily noted from the Aspectrian section of any 
ephémeris. It stays in each sign about a year. At the age of forty- 
eight Jupiter conjuncts its natal position, starting a twelve year 
cycle, making in order a sextile to its natal position, then a square, 
trine, opposition, and another trine and another square and 
sextile at about the age of sixty, which make fine opportunities 
for aged couples, say born two years apart. Of course, once during 
this cycle Jupiter will oppose your natal Saturn which will mark 
a testing period of your economic situation. 

Of the progressed aspects those of the Sun are the most 


important for the ages we are discussing, because at sixty the 
progressed Sun makes that wonderful sextile to its natal 


210 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


position, which is invariably good for the health, the mind is 
keen, energy should be ample for all daily duties, the outlook 
of life is fresh, and one radiates confidence. With major worries 
behind, there is a relief here which makes the person feel like 
a sailor after a storm, grateful for having survived the trials 
of life and hopeful that the rest of the voyage will be peaceful. 


Physical love can come back after fifty. We occasionaly 
see on the TV screen or hear on the radio of octogenarians 
presenting to the world smiling cherubs in theirarms. If either 
a progressed Mars or Uranus in transit corosses over your 
natal Moon sex hormones can arrive on cosmic wings. And 
this is one of Astrology's mysteries ever harking back to the 
aged Sarah and her husband "well stricken in years." This 
stellar condition obviously can impart a highly colourful 
feeling of romance to a courtship and marriage after fifty. It 
can impel you to paint the town red and may create a situation 
when people will say about you, "There is no fool like an old 
fool." And such an attitude of others towards such an 
individual may be justified, because Uranus especially can 
be stronger than a dozen Martinis. You should be able to carry 
your liquor and—your romantic drive. At this age, though, 
the best place to carry liquor is in the bottle and romance in 
your heart, where they belong. 


And if you are in this age group and eligible, better pay 
some attention to your waistline—if you don't, others will. 
There is something very alluring in a woman with a willowy 
figure after fifty, especially if a winning smile goes with it. 
The only possible source of grief for a man at this age is that 
he may have lost his mane ! But don't worry too much about 
it. It is your heart, wisdom, experience that captivates now. 
Your ability tojoke has a far greater impact than your muscles 
did of yore. Avoid the false cover, especially where there is 
little to cover, anyway. It is woman glories in her hair, and 
man in his wisdom. 


There is one sad feature in such romances. Saturn rules 
fear, and sometimes during this age interval it will make one 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 211 


or more square aspects. So you may try to approach your 
mate not as something to adore but the way a cat approaches 
a mouse. Learn to recognise this instinct and fight it. If you 
already feel you will have to hire detectives to follow your 
mate after marriage, forget it and find someone who in your 
mind will not need shadowing. A husband and wife must 
have such a powerful bond of union, of inseparable feeling 
for each other that both think they "are against the world." 
This is a figurative way of speaking to show’that you must 
have complete and perfect trust, otherwise there will be little 
except constant worry and distrust, with resulting anxiety 
gnawing at your vitals. 


A very important feature is regardless of the hour you are 
supposed to have been born, even if you know it, your chart 
may show a curious disagreement with the incidence of 
events. To be fairly sure of the chart's accuracy several events 
may be necessary for the consultant showing the degrees 
excited by transits in your life's experience. It is possible that 
some important events may be of such a nature that you 
cannot tell about them. Confidence is (definitely !) very 
important. Few people can trust their secrets to those who 
sometimes write or say, "In my files I have letters ....". That is 
enough to throw cold water on any tendency to consult 
Astrology. 


The student of Astrology should have learned by now that 
a significant 12th house compels a client to keep something 
from you. In this house fall, among others, such things as 
prison terms, confinement in psychiatric wards, abortion, 
business trickery, and bootlegging. These matters must be 
coupled with the ancient precepts concerning planets, house 
and aspects. Further note the time the request for analysis 1s 
received; this one point the client cannot calculate in advance. 
Once you start to service a client, give him something to 
ponder about —enough to show him you know more than he 
thinks you do. Do not help him to violate the law and laugh 


212 Astrology in Marriage Counselling 


at you up his sleeve. But as far as he trusts you, his trust should 
be the same as if he made a confession in the confessional. 


DELICATE QUESTIONS - The established premises 
in standard Astrology are adequate for all practical purpose. 
The problem is invariably to establish the sensitive degree 
areas. Only when these are known, future events can be 
anticipated and evaluated correctly (see my book—the Stars 
and Your Future). Among the delicaté’questions touched will 
be sex. Once the client shows desire to know something in 
this department, discuss it briefly but frankly. The Moon, 
Venus and Mars, and to some degree Jupiter, rule sex. If they 
are in the animal sign Aries, Taurus, Leo, Sagittarius and 
Capricorn, slightly above average sexual energy is indicated. 
The more planets, relating to sex, there are in these signs, the 
stronger the sexual drive. The qualifying planet is Saturn. 
Depending on where it is in the chart, it can be a harbinger of 
anything from total to temporary frigidity or impotence. 


In this connection it is about time poor Scorpio is given a 
break and is no longer called the arch-debauchee of the Zodiac. 
The test is very simple. Simply count the number of children 
a Scorpio has and compare that number with those of other 
signs. You will be surprised. And remember —justexactly one- 
twelfth part of you is Scorpio. The sign Scorpio defines a part 
of the body, including the anal and genital parts. A benefic 
planet in this sign forebodes wholesome, healthy condition 
for that area. A malefic planet here simply warns that at some 
time or other injury can occur affecting that area. Here are 
included such things as the pelvis, regular or not (which in 
women will affect delivery); simple or bad hernia depending; 
possibility of rupture, and an indication, concerning the 
possibility of developing hemorrhoids, etc. To digress a 
moment, records exist of human beings who lived in constant 
torment due to excessive sexual appetite. How many of them 
were Scorpio ? Such excessive drive can make life terrible and 
end in tragedy, compared with which impotence might look 


Astrology in Marriage Counselling 213 


like a blessing. As a future probability in this department, the 
transits of Saturn will indicate the "worry-quantum." If the 
worry index is due to be strong, relatively, it may indicate 
decline in sexual virility, because worry is the arch enemy of 
normal sexual life. Saturn may be nature's regulating valve 
in regard to procreation. His confining rings are there for all 
to see. He keeps all within porper bounds—including my 
remarks on this point. 


The next question causing much perplexity in prospective 
marriage after fifty is that relating to probably fidelity. In this 
sphere women are extremely sensitive. The pristine fear of 
mother being forsaken by her mate at the critical time always 
survives, even when there is no probability of begetting 
offspring. I think the old rules about sex planets making 
conjunctions or harmonious aspects show that the partners 
will be reciprocally ture. 


Allied to fidelity is the question of durability of marriage. 
In all cases this has to be considered. Transits and progressions 
will usher in various problems, probably of the economic 
nature. The best mutual aspects do not guarantee permanency. 
If the wife has a friction chart she may drive her man away by 
incessant harping and complaining at the same time that she 
"cannot tell him anything." The words of that song are very 
true—you cannot get or keep a man with a gun. Women's 
best weapon is charm. 


Someone has argued that Moon.in Sagittarius appears very 
seldom in divorce statistics. I cannot account for this. "One 
explanation may be that Sagittarious is the sign of religion 
and thus the Moon here is synonymous with the desire to 
implement the purpose of the Sacrament of Marriage. But then 
Sagittarius as a sign is mostly in the constellation Scorpio and 
therefore fixed, hates to change—wives or horses —in 
midstream. It is somewhat strange what women worry more 
about the stability and durability of marriage. But—when a 
woman loves a man what else can she do but worry ? 


END 


