Hindu Astrology Series 


Astrology, 
Destiny and 
the Wheel of Time 


Techniques and Predictions 


K.N. Rao 


Contents 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTGB......... RdalevaividdeawaiediaN es awe eae etna esses é 
CONTR US coca ilectine Race ares aecieciin suicide eaaatalees tun meagre tae tend 4 
CHECKLISTS FOR. ASTROLOGERS. .... 0. ue... cec ee ccceenee eee eeeeeenseeensaeteensed 6 
AOU TPE A cies ean ee a oe OF ates Nod cae 4 
AP PRECTA TION. scsccih so acevsdsaa stats nv anane aeuaalewevauwraduead ava elav aan aveneiNence eats 11 
VIEWS FROM THE UNITED STATES..........: eer ae eer eee ee 14 
IN PRODUC ION co ecnvesaccavas antics Aerie ee ee aoe 19 
SECTION | 
Proof of Destiny and the Wheel of Time 
I. Destiny and The wheel of Time..........,:ccccce cc cecum ececccee eee eo 
H. Tracing the Life-Pattern of AG... eee e eee eee ees Zé 
I. A story from the Mahabharata... cece eeee eee 31 
IV. Crime and Guru's Grace.......... WP 6 dc aaaseawenedantaaamasancinnabies 34 
SECTION li-A 
How Hindu Astrologers Predict Events? 
(Based on Lag hu Parashari) 

1, Meaning of H ouses and Plane tary Aspects .....+- aunerererereereretred ©) 

Il. Senefirs and Malefies 
— General and specific Categorisation ...............4....... 50 
ITE Drawable Inference from the Tables..........................0.0c0ceeee 54 
Iv. Rabu and Ketu.............. a ee ee RT Ce ee eee 57 
V. Emerging Principles of TCDS ACEAL out sic nsec 


4 


VI. 
VII. 


Malefic Periods for each Lagna....... sacuioe Sen RCTS Ree eee 62 
frattation/DetnUtitfen of Planets ...... acer ee eens 66 


SECTION !-B 
Classical Framowork of Predictlyo Principles 
(Basoden Madhya Parashari) 


Some Basies Claifled 2.20.0. iM codeaaleiaia Merlo’ a f2 
Rajayoqas COC.) Se ee nn © orn | boo. inna 74 
Yogas fot Deprivation and Poverty. ......4....-.4ser...--. 0%... 60 


Berefic Perfods. 00... ae eeee cece ee fe tei gentietessaldtaies or dotes 83 
Interpreting Vimshottari Dasha o.oo... uae cee cee cee ence ees B5 
Results of Antardasha ............sseseeecec cece eee eeeeeeer eee eee ee BO 
Great Principles Suceinctly Stated. .............. atu cecceee scene DP 
Finat Picture about Planetary Relationships.......................4 95 
What to sdé from which House 0.2.2.0... eee eee erences 97 


Checklists 
for Astrologers 


I~ “Astrolosical Analy siss.cic2 ect ard ce eaniiiincas 99 
Ti. Analysis of Plamets 2000000000000 ceteaeeee 100 
HL Close Analysis of the Horoscope --.sssesscsceesseeeeg LD 


SECTION Iil 
Importance of Pratyantar Dasha 


t Methods of Timing Events ors....0..... 0002 cece cece eee eee eee 105 
Pratyantar dasha: Jupiter-Saturm’s transits; exceptions to the 
tule - debilitated planets when good; 
€ase Studies; Accident of a Police Officer. Brother robbing 
brother. Mr Krishna Rao’s pramotion as Chairman of the 
Syndicate Bank. 

Technical Astrolagicat points 

XL _ Natural Significance of Pratyantar dasha Lord.................... 112 
Begum Akhtar, ma and others impelled by Venus to be music 
performers, listemners, organisers etc. Importance of Venus. 
Case Studies: Mr. LK. Jha entering the Rajya Sabha. 
Dr. PC. Alexander under acloud during 1985 spy scandal: 
prediction about his ambassadorship. 
Technical Astrological paints. 

Ti. Birth Rectification. ........................... Pee Sara tS densa taps se 121 
Different metheds of rectificaiton of birth time; Saints’ 
supermormal powers; Bhriqu Samhita and Charan Singh (former 
Prime Minister of India). 

Case Studies: Death prediction of Swami Moorkhanandji: death 
of my mothez; death of Sitaram Japuria. 


6 


Technical Astrological Points 
Use of Divisional Horoscopes v.00 ...... 40-22 ies ae 


Extensive and intensive verification of a fneSeopes detailed 
examination 3 a case study through four divisional horoscopes 
of Sanjay Gandhi. 


Technical Astrotogi¢eal Points 


V. Importance of Propitiation of Planets eserue. 8 we cee 141 
Shant of plinets by mantras. God's grace. Case Studies of YS.; 
Shankaracharya Jayendra Saraswati appreciates my predictions 
to lak and his advice: the tragedy ot the doctor son of a lover 
of Astrology, 

Technical Astrolegical Foiuts 

VI. Love-Making Periods... nighadeceeuaeneosenoant 2. 149 
How I was bowled by a ‘googly’ Case Study of a nial jilted 
lover's strange question; of the widowhood of Indira Gandhi 
Teehnical Astrological Points 

Vi. Timing Marriage. ooo... cece tees eeeeeeereeeees aa 155 
Case Studies of miraculous marriages of two overaged women, 
both analysed deeply, before prediction. 
Technical Astrological Paints. 

SECTION IV 
Why Belief tn Destiny? 

I. Astrology and Rarma ............ as setae Meche an St on 167 
I. Astrology, Fate and Freewill .....0..000..0000.0ccccce cece cee pee ee 174 
TH. Astrology and Psychology. .........000....0000ccccceee ce cee ee ceeee eens 188 
IV. Formulating Some Astrological Principels....0..0.000............195 

Specially for Political Careers 
Ns, -COMENMSION: . iPciactennds Sus Mean Gas Reatrteds nutaassanena aoa amen nest einen 20S 
PENI KO ore i tush tes ae i ilectadaldaachctalncttiet deta bemeads SP eae Ae 220 
List of Books by Vand Publications 000.0000. c ccc ees aaenaneee 223 


SECTION I 


PROOF OF DESTINY AND 
THE WHEEL OF TIME 


CHAPTER I 


DESTINY AND 
THE WHEEL OF TIME 


fafeerra jer dq Harsepgy 


Adhishthanam tatha karta Karanain cha prithak-viddain 
Vividhah cha prithak cheshla daivam chaevaatta panchamam 


Tha Goalu, XVifi-t4 

Interpreted In modern terms say, In the language of 
management there afe, in the Implementation of any plan or project, 
five components; A plan of action is the first one; a plan manager the 
second ane; Instruments of action the third one: t he act of 
Implementation the fourth one. 

But the final outcome of these ts either success or failure 
because it is dependenton the fifth factor whieh is destiny. 

Astrologers alone Know, the extent to which God bestows Hls 
grace on them to know tt; how this aaiva or destiny works and can 
be seen less dimly, along with the Wheel of Time. 

In the Risky Prediction serles In The Astrological Magazine, | 
have given enough prooks of the dsks [ keep taking to satisfy myself 
whether there ls Inscrutable working of destiny, bits of whose 
Inscrutability can be understood by an astrologer through this super- 
sclence. Bits’ is All that, | will Insist an astrologer can see. What can 
tte see is what non-astrologers cannot see but what he sees are only 
‘bits’ of a very tare cosmic pattern woven by planets which ts 
astoundingly vase A spiritual person with hls super normal powers 
see much more than what an astrologer can see: an occulist 
sometimes see what may be very striking, but a solitary event, a 
Stray Incident. 


Asumogy, Dosliay and ths Yosl of Tite DESTINY AnGTHE WHEEL OF TIME 


Astrology, as 4 super-selence, is satisfying. Yet no astrologer 
can remain satisfied with what he ‘sees’ because | Ill the last day of 
his iife on this planet, tie will feel that there is much more to fearn 
than what he has learnt. He has yet to develop techniques superior 
than. and learn 4 tore precise use of Wiese techniques than he is 
capable of. That is « pGlil of desperation and eawperaton. There Is. 
so much more to Kndw atid there Js no way WO! knowing It —the 
inscrutable Destiny «ue (Ne working of the Whisel of Time. 


CHAPTER I 
TRACING LIFE-PATTERN 
OF M.C. 


On March 14. 1993, my friend Professor L.P. Singh, Head of the 
Department of Philosophy In the Universiry of Bodh Gaya in the state 
of Blhar (inelta}, came to my house in the morning, accompanied by 
a [orelgn fady, who having taken to Buddhistic spiritual practices, 
has been busy with some Buddhist project In Bods Gaya In which 
Professor Singh also got involved. 

The lady gave her birth details ane! her horoscope was cast by 
Aika Gael, a gitl student offyotish Vistharac’ In the Bharatiya Vidya 
Bhawan, 

At night when ProFessor Singh came along with M,C, | typed 
out on two sheets of paper my readings. | asked her to read them 
and put down her remarks along with her address which she did. 
Her remarks were, “fhe events written here are, with the exceptions 
of few dates. Very accurate. There !§ no mention of what type of 
person? atm. whlch, t would find useful from an astrological point of 
view, For precise predictions abautlife eventsand their timings this 
system seems very correcr.~ 

Then } told her about her psychological make-up and told her, 
when asked, about the man she was attracted to. She then wrote In 
the margin, "A prediction was also made that this man ls from 
another country and ts a not-conformist This ts also true.” 

Giver here [5 the horoscope and my reading with her teacttans 
(seventeen correct she wrote),. 


TRACING UFE-PATTERN OF MG DESTINY AND THE WHEEL OF TIME 


M.C. 


May 26, 1057 


Sun 
Btars 
a 


Navamsha 


Rashi Degree Vimshotiari Dasha 7 M DD 


Lagna Libra = 257-03" Bal. fo dash 9 6 O 
Sun Taurus 14%41° Venus iill 1966 11 26 
Moon Aries 209-19" 9 Sun 1972 11 26 
ni ese. Moon 1982 11 26 
Mars Gemini 20°26 Mars 4989 11 26 

Mercury Aries 187-22") Bahy 
Jupiter Leo 28%.39°  Rahu-Rahu 1992 6 e 
Venus Taurus 22°45’ Rahu-Jupiter 1995 1 2 
; ‘ RahU'Salum 1997 11 8 

18°-1 

ae Scorpio 1815 Rahu-Mercury 2000 § 26 


Rahu Libra 26°-25° 
Ketu Aries 26°-25° 


ha 
"| 


TRACING HFE-PATIERN OF atc. Agbology, Ooziiny and tha Wheat of Tato 


MARCH 15, 193 
MC. dp-8 white Plastic Register : Outside India) 

t. The horoscope shows that she Js either the eldest or the 
youngest amang her co-barms. She told me that she Is the 
VOUUGE Sk 3. core eer Gece auceeekas cates ~eieeiagectat le 

2. Other than herself, ‘there éould be, byt one method three 
brothers or sisters (or five sisters and brothers), five sisters v 

3, The most unusual feature is that her own marriage has to be 
totally nor-aonformist In the sense that she marries someone 
outside :her COMMUNItY:OF -COLUINIY,. esses Stasecsapeeseteasiregetencans v 


4. If appeats similarly, a sister of hers has also had an unusual 


5. Strangely., her parents too have some pancan for mist marriage, 

cesee........ Father's second marriage #% from another cotrnin, 

6, But these marriages do not last long also, It appears’,,,,,,,.-*"' 
Promises in the Horoscope 

I. Both her work and sources of monetary gains will always have 

International links. She will have a permanent headquarters 

outside her country but not settle down In any foreign caurtty. 


Gaisesenvions shi esetcn tate tA ele ent ts ecrries rmeelen ahaha Satan oh neg 
2, Her marriage could have started breaking after October 1988. 
ne es cela _ ff 986} 


3, She hes. genuine 5 spiritual: rjuest ounce. would have: become 
more active before 1982 but her sadhana must have been 
spasmodic not steady or continuous or steady as tl! now she 
has not had a favourable perlod. o.oo seer 

Some Events 

Between t¥69-t981: A bird's eye of some events: 
An accident, distinction in studies in the sense that you do well 
academically and love affalrs are visible....... bt alee Batak v 

Between t?el-i990; 
From 1981 onwatdsstudles become moetereligious, philosophical 
and you either get offer ofan sppolntment ouside your country 
or move out im any case without a particular appointment and 
establish yourself well CMOUGH. wees... cesettseseseeneds versccatiane 
During thls period, after [98% you meet with someone whom 
you may have decided to marry (after August !982 and before 


August 1983) .. meee al wath. . ePeTO Reta bh Pett Pete v 
J 984-85 there Ts some preblem with your Petomach or even an 
ADO | HOT. f dads ehnesvied a7 91. MM, PA OP Oe STOPS DSS4 PEE ITEP RE PEs Seevaevarvis socuvrertal | 


1984-85 there Is a very distinct change In your Ife style. 1986 


1 RACGHG LIFE PATTERN Of © CGT UTINY AND 41S WHEEL OF TIME 
onwatds saine chantest‘catsted of your'tuhendting, something. 
ov 


{089-90 youocctysy position somewlhiete, perhaps ipart official 
body + move efsnwhers for training, studies ate, 
COE dad * aa . fies) 


fietvvecii /990-92 
You perhaps cauld not setde down anywhere atid have been on 
the nave from One place to anothes. 0 eae  Y 
From Now onwards 
There thst (enple-buildingand fund-raising activity engaging your 
Attandan rotclusJveiy (from ther beginning of IVOAL.........: wv 
WUsht now you havean offidal-legal position inthis organisation. 
Sornetl me after April 1993 you may begin to move, change your 
place of residence yrmove and come back, You will get good 


deaf of International monetary help before March 1994, 
v 


Indications for Future 

You are already attracted towards a person who 18s handsome, 
In an tmpartant position, 

(Prediction made that man fs from? other country and Js nen- 
CORIOMMIST so ceiie hei A eatel eee ee ..This is also true.) 

This will deepen aker a spell oF misunderstanding or separstlan, 

In the meantime some problems of your parents will create 
some problem. 

In 1995 your love affalr will elther result Into a marriage at a 
living together. 

By the end of 1966 you would be a married woman agaln. After 
2003 you will settle down in one place with your own property, 
made by you and also Inhetite. Parr of the property you Inherit Will 
be tn a faf-off-place- 


17 CORRECT 


The events written here are, witirthe exception of a fmv dates, 
very Accurate. However there is no mention of th type of person 
ian which £ soutdiind useful to hear from an astrolagicapoint of 
views, For precise predictions about fife events and their timing this 
system seems very correct. 


14 


TRACING kIFE-PATTERN OF #4. Astrology, Raaiiny am’ tho Wheal of Time 
letter Written NIG to Mr, K.N.Rao 


Raat Institute 
Bodh Gaya 
Bihar &24231 


KN. Rao 
## B Telegraph Lane 
New Delhi 


Dear Mr Rao, 

Namaskar] (twas very alte meeting you In Delhi recently and 
1 would like to thank you Tor the time you took In looking at my 
horoscope, Although 4 feel we do have the power to change certain 
karmas and therefore events In our lives, at the same tme 1 do And 
it very useful to get a reading of future potentials. In my case your 
reading was quite accurate so tn regards to future ithas helped me 
to set the correct mental attitude In terms of my work here In Bodh 
Gaya. So thank you very much and haope that sometime again you 
may be able 10 give me some of your expett guidance In horoscope 
reading, 

! hope thls finds you very well and that your work benefits 
many beings. 


With all best wishes, 


MC 


CHAPTER IT] 


A STORY FROM THE 
MAHABHARATA 


Allot Wratessar L.1' Singt and thit foreign lady left, ! wondered 
wilieres (hits working of destiny ane itwwheelis best explained, It then 
sued me tfutl fhe great Indian epic, the Mahabharata, has a story 
mwiileh hack appealed to me. 

The slary has some meaningful: dialogues benvecn Gavtaml, a 
Brahmin woman, a Snake-catcher, a snake, the Lord of Death and the 
Lord of Time. 

Briefly the story Is : 

The only sou of a Brahmin woman, Gautami. was bitten by a 
snake. The boy diet, A snake charmer caught the snake, brought It 
to the woman and asked her how he should kill it; cut it to pieces 
or burn tt alive. The woman asked tlm to leave the snake alone, 
alive, since none could do anything against the strokes of destiny; 
to do anything Inthe matter like killing the saake would bea sin, In 
any case, her dead son would not come tick to life now. 

The argument went on and the wise woman sald that the death 
of her son had not caused her agony as the boy had met fils destiny, 

The snake, now Lteathing more freely, ald the snake-charmer 
that 11@ had done what he was Instructed to do by Lotd of Death, 
But § he act of biting the boy was of the snake, safd the snake 
charmer, and he could not be absolved of the guilt of the boy's 
death, 

in the meantime, the Lord of Death came and explained that 
Impelled by the wheel of Destiny (the Lord of Time or Kaal} he (the 
Lord of Death) had Instructed the snake to blte the boy, 

Arguments went on between the snake-charmetr and the Lord 
of Death, none agreeing with the other. Then, Kaa) readied the spot 
and explained - jt was all the result of the Karmas of the boy - which 


A STORY FROM THE fcWHAEI-tARATA Agiméogy, Deslingied tha Wiel of Tena 


had to give their fests at @&@ given time. through the 

instrumentalltles of the Lord of Death, and the snake. 

Katmic patterns of our past lives, allotted ro us to enjoy or 
suffer in our present Incammatians. ar a given thme, become tna 
astrology, planetary patterns and the casha-system representing 
Destiny and Time of the Wheel of Destiny, which 1s the subject 
matter of astrology, 

The modern inant, obsesseed with ‘sclentism’, laughs at the Idea 
of strokes af destiny and regards anyone whe accepts Wl as 
supetstitiaus. There we exiunples after examples to prove it, yet he 
Wants to Ignore it. Let soine Instances be cited: 

i. President Kennedy of U.S.A. was shot dead on November 22, 
1963 before he could complete his term. Els horoscope shows 
why and how this iad to happen, 

President Nixon of U.5.A. could not complete hls second term 

as President after the Watergate Scandal, Dr 8.V¥, Raman the 

famous editor of The Astrological Magazine. Bangalore (India) 

Predicted |t In his Journal in December 1972. two years and 

nine months before Presictent Nixon had to resign from his 

Post, 

Indla’s Prime Minister Indira Gandhi wanted to groom her 

second son, Sanjay Gandhi, as the furure Prime Minister but he 

died jn an aeroplane crash. Her first son, Rafl¥ Gandhi became 

Prime Minister and was killed in a blast. Some miysterfous 

pattern of destiny works In the case of this family, 

4, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Tilme Minister of India since 

t947, went to Bhubneshwar In the state of Orlssa In India and 

had a stroke of paralysis which later caused hls death . 

Nehru's daughter, Indira Gand, also an Indian Prime Minister, 

was shot dead on the second day to her return from 

Bhubneshwar on October 31, (984. 

6, Indira Gandhi's son, Rafiv Gandhi, flew from Bhubneshwar to 
Madras where he died in bomb explosion In May #991. 
Sketches and some Incidents have been given in thls book 
explaining the working of th wheel of destiny and some 
astrological predictions, 

7, In 1992, Belgium (In Europe) had not even quallfied for a place 
In the European soccer championship. But later when Yugoslavia 
was disqualified under a United Nations embargo, the available 
place was filled by allowing Belgium to participate In the 
championship. Belgium played spectacularly great football, 


[IV 


had 


oI 


3} 


Artology, Destiny and the Wrinel of Time A STORY FROM THE MAHABHARATA 


match after mateh, defeated Holland, ihe defending European 

champion in the semifinal, and Germany world soccer 

champion In tte final, 

All these are historical exampies of our times, Milllans of such 
incidents keep taking place In human lives yet we Ignore them, 
which Is good, «a» we would otherwise be fatdists, Yer not to accept 
Fate or Destiny, a3 & (ited of truth in OUT everyday existence is a 
superstition, as astrologer can ‘see’ better than others, but still. | 
Insist, Impattestly, Uvern after ‘seelng’ (hey make wrong 
Predietlioncettiat ja atrolopers own claitiny. 

The questlow ior Ate We Gspable of saving, ourselves from such 
strokes of clasiay? This Will Invatve tis lin the aternal debate about 
(ate and freewill abe Ww) which We alt tave strong opinions. 
prejudiees and aver dosed minsts. 

Crod's race does =ive us ta an extent from such strokes, or 
maker us bear the pain of such strokes of destiny is one school of 
opinion to which [ belong. To prove it, let me reproduce, among 
owes, a predictlaon ! had made and later turned It Into an 
astiological case study which was published In September 19S7 In 
The Astrological Magazine. The article has the ttle, "Crime and 
Guru's Grace’. 


33 


CHAPTER IV 
CRIME AND GURU'S GRACE 


Lord Brahma's first creation was the best ever created through 
His sankaJpa (resolution) as everyone strove to get salvation and got 
it. But the desire of the lord to multiply himself remained unfulfilled 
ad Lord Brahma had remembered Lord Shiva who asked Alm to act 
according to the divine Instfuction he had already received 
{akashvanl) {6 produce tialthunma srtsil, children through sex 
between mate and female. The Idea ofthe female was given to Lord 
Brahama when Lord Shiva showed his Ardhanarishwara form, out of 
which the Goddess got separted for some moments, She released 
fram between her eyebrows a divine force which created the human 
female. 

The God enveloped his creatures | maya. Ever since, man has 
been committing erlmes. in every horoscopes, these may be seen 
with the difference, that in some cases it Is committed but the 
criminal remains above the Jail-llmes; In ofher cases the criminal is 
jailed: and in all cases we have out neurojl and psychotic moments 
when we, mentally, react like criminals but do nothing to land on the 
wrong side of law, 


Astrological Analysis 

{a} There must be combinations malefic essentially, Invelving 6th 
and 8th lords, The Moon and retrograde Mercury generally, to 
excite one's criminal tendencies, 

(h} There must be a dosha ta convert such criminal excitement Into 
an actuality, 

(<) There must be transits, particularly of Saturn, to make such 
commission af crime almost Inevitable. 

(d} There must be combinations for Impisonment, particularly tn 
the birth horoscope and In Drekkana (Breshkona)., A Simple way 
of remembering Is to see equal number of planets IW houses 2, 


Asirology, Testing and Deg Behineb of Flin CRIME ANO GURUS GAACE 


t2,or 3, $1 or 4, $@ from the lagna and It} Sarpa, or Nigala 

Drekkana etc 

in what was fwelve: years ago a prediction of Immense personal 
satisfaction to mic, | wilt Illustrate In this curr atudy. 

E nave refered) fs Lon) Brahma's Ilist ¢reatlon because J have 
often wondered, 8H? analysing, myself, how trie ts hidden ia our 
unconscious which, it allowed t@ have ftulles! play and expression. 
would destroy solely, Syinpathy and love alme-can hold together 
the socal and mmaral labiic of sg¢lety, Herel(y cames the tote of the 
saint, the pteat fhallan taint whose xtea deeds may remain 
unrecorded, Willi Wiat qaultpese In view 9 ant now may rating an 
nantent which Wf fully énewn and cambllshest in 1975, mlvht have 
landed Wy late Gatuli, Swank Maodeaoactt Sotaswadl in fall during 
the Enietgencey, nat for sity political season. but for fai uring a 
“edliminal’, 

The story must begin wilt my Gutuft's Valshnava Ashram, Sth Sr 
delay Krishna Ashram on the sacred hills of Kamakhaya, In Guwahatt 
where we congregated every year during fjas, Even when I was 
frosted: to Ralkot. Ahmedabad, and Patna, | went every year to 
Kamakhaya to partidpate, perhaps more actively than other, In the 
puja ¢debrations. | had raised a team of young men who did all the 
water-filling of tanks tA the Ashram, cleaning up ail the floors and 
lighting the hilly bridle pair with candles when we, In a procession, 
got down the hilk to foln hajans In the house of Shantida living In 
the hear of the dry of Guwahath My gutu-bhals and gurubahens nor 
merely wanted mre to be there every year, but expected me to take 
a leading rote In organising the functions according to plan. With all 
the IncOnmvyentence of staying in a croweded room. Jt was a bliss te 
be a participant in those Festhvais. 

With this background, if | ever saw any yeungman work actively 
in the Ashram, he attracted me. During one of thase Pula festivals 
when | had gone from Patna, | noticed either in 1972 ar [973, a tall 
White-complexioned young man doing Puja In the Ashram, dressed 
tinmaculatcly in the garb of a pufari. He talked ta very few persons. 
People refened to him as “Rajesh™. Someone called bir Pancdu, 

The Scene shifts now te Calcutta, to be precise, t the Ashram 
of my Late Gurujl, Sri Belay Krishna Ashram, Kamalgazl, 
Narendrapurn, 24 Parganas. I was posted In Calcutta and Gurl 
asked me to stay in the Ashram instead of In the Nizam Palace or 
Selvedera where i could get an excellent flat allotted to me afileially, 
Movement to an back frvm the ‘office was Inconvenient, otherwise 


AK 


CRIME ANO GURU'S GRACE Asugiegy. Oastiny ane tw Whael al Timo 


the advantages of pure Vaishnava food im the Ashram and bhaljans 
were my major attractions, 

Guru} encouraged me to da astrology and |! must te one of 
very few astrologer who had the supteme advantage of discovering 
astrolagically what my fate Gurujff had fold sameone about 2 
happening an event of fis or her future through his sietdhis 
fsupernarma?l powers) in his own inscrutable way. But such 
occasions were very few as he encouraged surrender to the will of 
the Lord as the supreme path, discouraged people from wearing 
rings and stones for propitiation of planets. There could be nothing 
superior to worship, itwsimple straight ane guileless way, he Insisted, 
and | have found that to be the best, most effective and uplifting 
Way of datngs both shantl of planets auc making steady progress on 
the spiritual path. 

Off and on J had done some astrological research on planets 
and crimes and had very clear Ideas about It. But | hardly could have 
expected that 1 would be required to make a very difficult, but 
challenging, prediction. 

Staying in the ashram, ft was uneasy for some days because of 
my addiction to tea li Guruji asked a couple, late Sri Anil 
Bhattacharya and his wife Gayataldl. to give me tea whenever 1 
wanted, They stayed In rhe Ashram. meant far bhramecharis. with 
their two daughters and two sons. But they had flye children—the 
elelest was (on jill, Who was he. tasked "Pandu* come the answer. 
The same boy whom ¢ had seen fn Guwahait Ashram doing pooja? 
Did not Gurufi with oil his supernormal powers Know all this? These 
were uneasy questions discussed fn hush-hush tones amongst some 
of us. National Emergency of 1975-77 was promulgated and the 
rumours were thar men of Indian Intelligence were all the time to be 
seen In the Ashram, Natural, | said, they must do their duty. 
Partianlany for rwo reasons; | am the elder brother of K. Vikram Rao, 
journallst, the principal accused #n the Baroda dynamite case and 
now {n Tihar fall, Delhi, and George fFernancies, having gone 
underground, had yet to be arrested. An Intelligence man would 
suspect that Mr. fernandes would want to contact me while the truth 
was that | had never met him, never talked te him and there were 
no contacts with any of the accused eyer, But then | knew that | was 
chased all rhe time and the men who chased me heard more 
bhajans doing their duty than they would have done etherwlse. 


The second reason was that the father of Pandu was staying In 
the Ashram, He too had to be kept under watch, And the best or 


jt 


Astroksyy, Destiny and toe Vthedt or Teme CRIME AND GURU'S GRACE 


the worst reason was that there was dear evidence that my late 
Guryjl had given shelter to Pandu in his Ashram. 

This chapter of my life, -IF narrated fully with all its lurid detalls. 
would read Ike a novel of Franz Kafka and | must.say to the credit 
of late Mrs. Indtra Gandhi that her Intelligence men who had kept a 
very sulct vigil on me for twenty four hours, behaved more decently 
with me than her e¢ltles would believe. If1 posted a lettet 1 Invariably 
saw someone from somewhere watching me. if anyone came to 
meet me, he loo was chated, But all chat must be done, I Invariably 
told my visitors, lecause that was their duty, 

But the worst was when .Anlida came to ask me to see the 
horoscope of ils 50n. who was In fall. An over-sentImental father, he 
would burst Into tears IF anyone told tim that his son would be 
hanged to death — that was what he should expect. Now see the 
horoscope. 


Some people said Pandu was implicated Ina crime he had never 
committed while others said that the murder was committed In 
broad daylight with many people witnessing It. | never answered the 
question but those who knew astrology knew what I was hinting at. 
Sec the following features before 1 narrate the incidents stage by 
stage. 

(a) The sixth and the eighth lords are inthe lagna. Both are malefics 
and the connection between them Is exact, 

(b) Mercury is not merely retrograde but Is Involved In an exchange 
with the third ford, Mats, and Is aspected by Saturn. 

(<} Moon In the twelfth house with Ketu receives no aspect from 
any benefic. 

(d) The eighth house and the eighth lord from Moon receives the 
malefic aspects of Saturn and Mars, 


37 


CRIME AND GURUS GRACE Astolagy, Cestiny and the Viheel of Tkna 


{e) From the Karakamsha In the birth horoscope {Aquarius}, Mars 
and Saturn are in the eighth house. 

{f} The tenth lord from Lagna, Mercury is retrograde and receives 
the aspect of Saturn, 

{z) Saturn, the fifth lord, 1s wll) the eighth lord, both malefics, 


Divine Grace 
Jupiter In the seventh house is not merely tn an (Important 
kendra, but controls the horoscope radiating his divine Influence on 
all those spots of maleficence as have been pointed out, 
(a) He aspects Lagna and Lagna lord; granting longevity, 
(b) He mitigates the ylolence of the sbcth and eighth lord, Mans and 
Saturn, In Lagna, 
(c) He aspects the tenth lard, Mercury, 
(cl) He Is eighth from Mogn, again good for longevity. 


Incidents 

Slowly the Incidents unfolded and ! pieced up bit by bit the 
story of Bengal's or India's most sensational political crime of that 
era. It was the Hernant Basu murder case, Hemmant Basu, one of the 
most respected learders of Bengal, was related to Subhash Chandra 
Bose and was a very well-known leader of the Forward Bloc He was 
murdered In 197) or thereabout, In broad daylight Bengal, then In 
the feverish rage of the Naxallte movement, had witnessed violence 
which b history now. 

Insplte of what was claimed to be clear evidence, the actual 
murderers of Hemani Basu were not caught. There were stories of 
sinister political manipulations, which may be partly true. But that Is 
not my subject. 


Dasha Scheme 

In seeing motivations for wrong deeds see Invariably what 
dasha one Is running and what does that dasha Imply. Then see what 
future dashas. promise. A retrospective view of what has happened 
gives enough clarity to the prediction about the present trend ol 
events In a horoscope. See the following. 
Mars Dasha 

From 1968, the dasha of Mars started In the horoscope of *P" 
Mars, the eighth lord In conjunction with the sixth tord, 1s Involved 
In exchagne with Mercury, the lagna lord, retrograde In the third 
house, He was attracted towards the Naxallte movement during thls 


Actology. Destiny and lie Vere fit Fime CHILE AND GURUS GAACE 


period. 
Mors-Rabu 

Maus-Rahu period saw him do more vielent acts In rhe sense 
that he had become A terror wherever he moved, His tall, lithe, agile 
frame, quick MoveMeNL, athletic and mercurial, aad whatever lethal 
weapon be cartledl with litt, marked hlti Gut 44.4 man to be feared, 
Mars-Sotiirn 

Mars Satuntt peod law hint commit the ‘murder’ he was 
accused of, lt appewenl creelible astologically. 

Cap! Vaddat a Gunebhad of indie, had smuggled ble out of 
Calcutha in 1 doin ta Guevalial earnt, arieler (pastructtons, but from 
whom?) where lev the Astra at Kamakpayi ie was Instiucted to do 
pula regularly wilh deepest prayer to Cul, 

Man -ilereury 

Ts was the period In which 'P" became a pujasl, doing services 
in the temple wlth thoroughness and nearness and, God knows. 
how much sincere devatlon. Mercury represents Lord Vishnu and ‘P* 
wan doing Vaishnava seva which won the admiration of all those 
who had otherwise their own teservatlons, and private opinions, 
about fm as a devotee, 

Mors-Ketu 

A hue an cry was raised tar the Hemant Basu murder case 
was not being pursued property and rhe police, directed by higher 
authorities moved inteiligentiy. Anda, father of *P' was returning 
one day from the Government Press where tie woftked, when some 
policemen wok firm ro the Lal Bazar Police Station. Ketu in the 
twelfth house of 'P' had to have fhe final say in the matter. They 
searched Anilda’s pocket and found a postcard from somewhere In 
Assam, in witten the lener-writer perhaps wrote about his daily 
routine of seva and his feeling secure and safe. 

There was a police swoop on the Ashram oF my Gurl, rhe one 
In Guwahati on the Kamakhaya Hill and the other In Karimgan} on 
the Bangladesh border. Pandu was caught. 

While In police custody, Anllda was made to hear taperecorded 
talks of my late Gufuji. How and when the Intelligence men had 
tape-recorded jt all, no one knew. The common tunning theme was 
Gods grace !s all that man should strive for, In an Indirecr way, some 
of them expressed the opinion that Gurujt was a great spiritual figure 
with supernormal powers, but wondered why and how ‘P" could 
hide himself In an Ashram. 


CRIME AND GURU'S GRACE Asinfogy, Destiny and tots Whdel of Tins 


Mars-Venus and Sun 

Sun as the twelfth lord fs good for spiritual practices. During thts 
period ‘P’,1h Jall in Calcutta, spending his time In deepest devadan 
looked calm and com posed, hoping that divine grace WeAn 
descend on him, 

Inspire of putting questions to Gurujl as to-what would happen 
to 'P’, itseems Anllda and Gayatrlell got only scolded, "Has he not 
done seva in a temple? Believe ta Goad". 

Mars-Moon 

lt was when ‘P" was running the period of Mars-Moon that} got 
posted to Calcutta, It was June 1975 and { heard of the National 
Emergency, then, a few days laser, of the Involvement of my 
younger brother in the Baroda dynamite case. | got letters from my 
youngest brother, K Subhas Rao, from Karnataka where the accused 
were tortured by ‘Karnataka pollee, «sstory } could not have believed, 

/ had already the case of ‘P. Then | collected other horoscopes 
and did a piece of research on ‘planets and alme®’ and wherever | 
noticed the following two poltits, | had no hesitation In giving: a 
positive prediction, 

fit) Antardasha fsub-period) af the sixth lord should be running 
when you are fighting & Case. 
(b) fuptter should infence the #8th house or lord or both from 

Lagna or Moon to rescue the accused. 

For this reason 1 was advising. Anilda to get the case of 'P' 
adjourned till October/November (975 when Rahu, Im the sixth 
house of ‘P', would begin to show changed trend of the case. 

As lt had to happen, my younger brother too was to begin the 
antardasha of hls sixth lord soon. In both cases my prediction was 
dean acquittal—anc those who know what that Emergency of [Indira 
Gandhl-was thought that | was amad man. li both cases my timing 
was first quarter of 1977, when they would be out of jail. Privately 
I predicted the fall of Indira Gandhi. 

Achu-Rahu-Rahu 

In this pratyantar dosha {sub-sub-perlod) the case opened, and 
if one were to go by the reports appearing In the Amand Bazar 
Patrika and the fdégantar, hanging of all the accused was Inevitable 

Anil tla ran from his lawyer's house to the court In those days 
and came with me to Kali-Ghat late in the night every Friday and 
often dashed hls head against the stonewalls of the temples crying 
out “Mia, elther idll’ me or save my son”. (Twelve years after these 
inelclents, even today, | can see Anllda {now dead), a very noble 


Atl 


Astraldgy, Destiny 2nd the Wheel of Time CRIME AND GURUS GRACE 


man, shedding teats j#ohisely as few women could, and praying 
with anguish as few ficfsans can. 
flohu-Rohu-Jupfter 

The case Was reaching Its eltmax. Beatl) sentence {s inevitable 
was everyone's veecict. My guru-bhal Nirmatda, « contemporary of 
late Humayun Kaloe and classmate ofthe well-Known Bengali literary 
crite, Nlemat Chauahary, is a good astrologer ant he asked me why 
L inslstect that “P’ would be acquitted, t sale 

fa} Ratu fete i) the sixth house becomes the sfxtt lord: hls own 
antardasha Wits on. 

(h} Panyantit dasha of Saturn, the sixth torct can get htm victory, not 
dfefot. 

(c) fuptter, at the end of 1976 was hi Atles, tre ninth house from 

‘loon and would move into Taurus, the 9tti house from Lagna, 
Rehu-Rahe-Saturn 

According to my ailculations, the Pratyantnr dasha was to 
begin after the second fortnight of August 1976 and the court 
judgement was to be delivered any day. tt was delivered on August 
#5, 1976. Sitting in my office | received a phone from a woman, 
"Well, who are you?" | asked her and she sald, “+t am Gayarrt 
speaking”, and she was sobbing. "What happened", [ asked, 
“When else can t remember except you now. Rifest has been 
acquitted." She was sobbing, shedding tears, I Imagine, the tears of 
joy a mother alone can shed on such an ececasion. 

But Rajesh had to wait tll March 1977 or sometime after to be 
released. Gurujl remained inscrutable and asked him when he came 
and fell at tis feet, to do more prayers. fuptterin the sevenrhhouse 
of Rajesh eighth from tls Moon was the grace of Guru as well, aif 
knew, rhe inet Guru who made him worst tip God by employing him 
secretly in fhe service of the temple and who had assured his 
parents, “Has he nor served in-a temple’? 


DE 


SECTION I-A 
HOW HINDU ASTROLOGERS 
PREDICT EVENTS? 
{BASED ON. LAGHU PARASHARI) 


These are explained In a half-secretive manner, In LUeaddaya 
Pradeep better known as Laghu Parashar of only forty stanzas. 

In this book a classical framework of that great masterpiece Is 
being given first, and then, the astrological case studles. 

To understand the patter of destiny decipher the secret codes of 
planetary patterns; to understand the working of the Wheel of Time 
understand the laws operating through: 

The Vimshottarl mahadasha or the major period. 

The antardasha or the sul+-perlod, and 

The pratyantar dasha or the sub-sub-perlod, 

No claim ts being made that it will be understood fully. Yet (Fa 
vell of secrecy gets lifted from our eyes, the purpose of writing this 
book would have been served to some extent 


42 


SECTION O-A 
HOW HINDU ASTROLOGERS 
PREDICT EVENTS? 
{BASED ON. LAGHU PABASHARI) 


These are explained In a half-secretive manner, In Lieldaya 
Pradeep better known as daghv Parashar! of only forty stanzas. 

In this book a classical framework of that great masterpiece Is 
being given first, and then, the astrological case studles. 

To understand the patter of destiny decipher the secret codes of 
planetary patterns; to understand the working of the Wheel of Time 
understand the laws operating through: 

The Vimshottarl mahadasha or the major period. 

The antardasha or the sul+pezlod, and 

The pratyantar dasha or the sub-sub-period, 

No claim ts belng made that it will be understood fully. Yet If a 
vell of secrecy gets lifted from our eyes, the purpose of writing this 
book would have been served to some extent 


MEANING Of HOUSES AND FLANETARY,,, Astretogy, Destiny and the Wheat of Time 


effortsare done with brothers and sisters who become co-sharers of 
the money earned in traditional societies. 

Naote:As will be shown later, a tnatefcein the third house is 
preferred to & benetic generally for two reason : first a malefic here 
shows the wilf to do hard wark, not soft wark. The second reason Is 
that the third house {8 one of the ti-shadaya houses (the third, the 
sixth and the eleventh housés) which are described as evil houses. 
Malefics liere becomenegation of megaifon, or two negatives making 
a positive, 


The Fourth House 
Eaming of money (second house) through efforts (third house) 
leads to the making of property and living In [t. The founh represents 
mother, property. vehicles etc. — In fact the domestic surroundings, 
Notes Happiness of mormer home atid vehicles being 
associated with this house. The house is described as sukha-bliava or 
the house of happiness. 


The Fifth house 

The fifth house }s generally tnelicative of three events: In early Ife 
-education, in middle age - children and in old age (In some cases 
entire life) - spiritual practices. 

Nate =: The great Maharshl Patashara stresses the tole of the fifth 
house for exfucation. One need not go into this controversy at the 
moment, Through illustrations and’ ane’sown experience one can 
understand these problems. 


The Sixth House 

At three stages of Ife (in fact all stages) there Is the fear of 
IIiness, enemies and debts which the six house represents- Such 
threats. are ever present. 

Note? Here again 4 malefic fs preférred as again It ts a case of 
two negatives making 2 positive. 


The Seventh House 

Completion of education which helps one make a career and, 
developing sound helath (the slxth house), leads to the désire to 
have a fire-panner in the shape of 4 husband or a wife in a rraditional 
way, or a partner to live together with, In western sacdeties, and 
some sections of ¢ven traditional societies of the east. 

Note: ft «iso being. the house of Business, business partner ts 


41 


Astrology, Geaing and tha Yoo of Thon MEANING OF KHOWSES AND PLANETARY. 


also ro be examined form the sevemntf fiouse. 


The Eighth House 

Settling down Ina family life in « Traditional Way, the desfre to 
have a life long enough ta enloy It Is human nature. The eighth 
house Is the house «if longevity. 

Nate; if és for this reason that this house is examined for 
diseasefrex: fife. An afflicted eighth house or lord is major factor In 
predicting wut fatal events of fife. 


The Ninth Mavuse 

Longevity lwereases through good deeds, mainly religous. The 
desire to Increase anes longevity leads one into right path or 
cultivation of such habits as Will not ruin Iife’s manifold happiness. 

Note: fn south India {hls house is examined for predictions 
about father while tn north fndfa the tenth house fs taken frtta 
account. if will be shown later that both should be examined 
Simultaneously. 


The Tenth home 

This is {he house of deeds {Karma}. Traditionally {t ls tine father 
thar pus dis children Into a career or, one makes one’s own elforns 
to make a career. TradItlanally since the ninth house Js the house of 
guru, father, teacher, preceptor etc. It Is they Who prepare one for a 
carter. 

Nate: tt also being rhe house ofreputation, benefics ia the tenth 
house or associated with the tenth house have been traditionally 
pratsect. But since it is the house of career, te nature of planets 
assoclared ivitl) the tenth house or, ihe tenth lord, “ill gived clue to 
the nature of one’s profession. 


The Eleventh House 
Itis the house of earnings. it being second to the tenth house. 
What one earns through deeds KE to be judged from thls house. 
Nore: it being the house of achievements, ft has to Include 
titles, honours etc. one ts likely to get from this house. 


The Tweifth House 

What ls earned ts spent so the twelfth house ts the house of 
expenditure, 

Note: The twelfth house represents the last stage of ilfé also ft 


ab 


MEANING OF HOUSES AND PLANETARY... Asumogy, Gesiiny and the Wheal tf Tine 


which ene prepares for death, itis for ts reason that lt is described 
as the house ef moksha or liberation. 


TWO HALF ©F THE ZODIAC 

These twelve houses are divided inte two halves—the solar half 
belongs to the Sun and the lunar half to the Moon: tt Is done thus: 

From the house of Sun count upte six houses which will be Leo 
{Sun}, Virgo (Mercury), Libra (Venus), Scorpio (Mars), Sagittarius 
{Jupiter} and Capricorn {Saturn), 

Naw proceed to divide. the remaining six houses, which 
represent Moon's half but in the rewerse way; Cancer (Moon), Gemint 
(Mercury), Taurus (Venus), Aries (Macs), Pisces (Jupiter) and Aquarius 
(Saturn). 

Note: Whethe: you take the Sun's fiaif or the Moon's half the 
order Is : Mercury, Venus, Mars{upiter and Saturn, 

Now follow the reasoning given for this order: 


The Sun andthe Moon 

The Sun and the Moon are the kings of‘their own kingdom and 
their allotment of houses adjacent to their own ts In order of a 
necessary scheme, 


Mercury 

Mercury ts the prince who Will succeed the kIng so his mansion 
has to be nearest to that of the king. He ts to be groomed to be a 
king and so he must be In the closest touch with the ruler. 


Venus 

The Prime Minister who advises the king on various matters 
comes next, Venus is full of worldly wisdom, deep knowledge and 
know state-craft, 


Mors 

The kingdom has to be guarded. So an army 4s raised and a 
commander of the army appointed. Mars has to protect the prime 
Minister, the prince and the king. 


Jupiter 

The Wag needs a religious predepter, a guru who advises the 
king on various matters, ike the Prime Minister. He 1s essentially a 
spiritual person who needs na protection except God's. He Is an 


46 


Astrotagy, Destiny and Loe Wheel of Ting MEANING OF HOUSES AMD PLANETARY 


ideallst, with inner strength, 


Saturn 
He Is the servant, the employee who ts allotted hfs quarter for 
living Im the outskiits, 


MEANING OF ASPECTS 

Ir js well-known that {n Hindu astrology all planets aspect the 
seventh house, the full flAped-i (no reference to other types of 
aspects {s belag innade here). 


Why tie Seventh Aipoct? 

TO protect hls house arcs dhilelten, Closest attention must be 
paid by nvery person to the profectiot of women, The seventh house 
being the tious of maitlige, wife It 1s obvious that prelection of 
one's wite Is everyone's ilfe-long duty, By protecting the major pillar 
af life, one's domestic stability Is acquired. 


Why Special Aspect? 

Jupiter aspects the fifth and the ninth houses also; Mars aspects 
the fourth and the eighth houses alse; and Saturn aspects the third 
and the tenth houses also. Let is be understood. 


jupiter 

Jupiter is the planet of divinity and It [s his duty to offer 
protection to learning and children represented by the fifth house 
and also the father and religion, by covering, through a special 
aspect, the ninth house. 


Mors 

The house one lives tn needs protection which Involves 
something Jn the nature ofthe police, state or army protection. Mars 
represents the army, police ec. Therefore Mars has been given the 
fourth aspect. 

The eighth aspect of Mars is to protect the house of longevity. 
The duty of Mars Is to protect Ife and property, 


Saturn 

Saturn's third aspect represents the efforts (velour) that have to 
be put in ro achieve what one desires to achieve (deeds). The tenth 
house representing deeds (Karma), needs the help of Saturn, 


47 


MEANING Of HOUSES AND PLANETARY. Astology, Bostiny and Ingvynee) of Tima 


Conclusion 


Ir ts out of these fundamentals that all predictions emerge out 


of the planetary patterns In a horoscope. From here we must enter 
the complex pattern which have to be many Itt a bare horoscope 
only. These complex patterns acquire different complealties tn 
different divisional horoscopes. 


Bask Points of Predictions 


In making a prediction an astrologer must keep the following 


points in his mind. 


tt 


Examine each house and the lord of each house in the birth 
horoscope. 


2. Then examine each house and {ts lord In the Navamsha (the 


a. 


4, 


5. 


ninth division of # horoscope). 

Now analyse fointly both the birth horoscope and the 

Navamsha. 

Make a.similar use of other divisional horoscopes, first 

separately then jolntly with the birth horoscope, 

Now examine in detail the mahadasha {mafor period) and 

antardasha {(Sutperocds) of each planet In the Vimshottari dosha 

in six ‘ways: 

(a) Inthe birth horoscope From the Lagna firss. 

{i} In the birth horoscope from the lord of the dasha rumning, 

(c) En the Navamsha again go through the exercise given In (a) 
and {b). 

(d) Do # again inthe divisional horoscope concerned other than 
the Navamsha. 
(e) The significance of each planet and each house Must be 
kept In the mind, 

(f) The 2-12 68 position of planets must be examined, 

itis now that the transit of planets Is to be used, not before:the 

steps given above have been gone through. 


The Transit areto be seen from: 
{a) The lagna or the ascendant first. 


(b) 


(C) 


Next form the Moon (as Moon stays ina house for nearly two 
and a quarter days, It is daubtful IFexamining HansIts from the 
Moon alone is the cormect approach). 

Now examine with relation to the Vimshattarl dasha how the 
mahadasha lords and antardasha lords ate placed Intransit from 
the Lagna when a question $$ being examined, 


4B 


Astrology, DesuUny and tha Wheol of Tino MEANING OF HOUSES AND PLANETARY... 


(d) if you know the use of the Ashtakavarga, It ls better than using 
transits as, It reveals a wealth of such details as are not available, 
otherwise. 

(e) Finally see which planet In transit contacts which planet of the 
birth horoscope and. In which house. Saturn's Sadhe-Sdag, or 
the fourth or eighth house transit from the natal Moon has deep 
meaning. 

These steps must be gone through to delineate a horoscope. 


49 


CHAPTER 
BENEFICS AND MALEFICS 


GENERAL AND SPECIFIC CATEGORISATION 


Gencra] Categeorssatian 
Planets are divided for every iLagaa Into natural benefits and 
natural matefics. They are : 
Narura.: Benefles : Juglter and Venus are natural beneftes, 
Natural Malefics : Saturn, Mars and Sun are natural malefics, 


Four Conditional Benefics 

The Moon, if not weak (not very neat the Sun}; Mercury, IF not 
afflicted and Rahu and Ketu tf In good houses (kendras, trlkanas} and 
with good planets become benefics. 


Four Conditional Matafics 
If the Moon is weak and afflicted; Jf Mercury Is weak and 
afflicted; if Rahu and Ketu are in evil houses and afflicted, they: 
become conditional malefics. 
Remember this generally and see {t fn every horescope.To miss 
ff ts to miss a vital point in 2 horoscope. 
But to base an astrological reading on thls alone Is to get 
trapped Into two types of mistakes - 
(a) You must know how for a ,particular Lagnma a malefic can 
become a benefic and, 
Ib) How a benefic can become a matefic, 
To understand how It Is done, divide the owners of houses for 
each lagna Into four categories ; 
(a) The owners of trikonas, the Lagna, the fifth and the nlnth house 
- for each Lagna are benefics. 
(b) The owners of the third, sixth and the eleventh houses, for each 
Lagna are malefics. 


50 


Astefogy, Destiny and ihe Wredf Timo BENEFICS AND MALEFICS 


( c) The owners of kendras (quadrants) .are neutral. 

(d) The owners of the second, eighth and twelfth houses will be 
neutral bur €4n turn Inte benefics or malefics depending, on 
how they are placed and how they arc associated. 

Now It Is being explained in a tabular form. 
Table Fk 


Bonofles for each Lagna Maleficsfor each Lagna 
(Flest, fifth and ninth lords | (Third, sixth and eleventh 
from the Lagna lords from the Lagna) 


Merc, (Gemini), Mere, (Virgo). 
Salum 


Moon, Venus and Jupiter 


Mercury, Venus and Salum. | Sun, Mars (Scorpio) and Mara 
{Anes} 


Moon, Mars and Jupiter Mercury, Jupiter and Venus 


Sun, Jupiter and Mars Venus, Salum and Mercury 
Mercury. Saturn and Venus }Mars, Saturn and Moon 


Jupiter (Sagittarius), Jupiter 
(Pisces), Sun 
Mars, Jupiter and Moon Saturn, Mars and Mercu 


Sagittarius | Jupiter, Mars and Sun Saturn Venus (Taurus), Venus 
(Libra) 


Saturn. Venus and Mercury | Jupiter, Mercury and Mars 
Saturn, Mercury and Venus |Mars, Moon and Jupiter 
Jupiter, Moon and Mars Venus Sun and Saturn 


Note: ifboth columns are seen together, it Wilfbe evfdent that 
the same planets which is capable ofgood results also gives bad 
results. The Judgement an astrologer has to develop is when bad 
result can be experienced from which direction and when good 
results, again from which direction. 


51 


MEANING OF HOUSES AND PLANETARY. Astrology, Destny end the Whee ol Time 


Table Il 

Neutrals for each Lagna J Special Neutrals fareach Lagna 
(Second, eighthand [| (Lords of Lagna, fourth, seventh 
twelfth lards from the and tenth houSes) 


Lagna) 
i Mars, Moon. Venus and Saturn 


Aries Venus. 


Mars and Jupiter 
Mercury, Jupiter and Mars fVenus. Sun. Mars and Satum 


Merucury, Jupiter and 
Moon 


Moon. Venus Satum and Mars 


Virgo Venus, Mars and Sun Sun, Mars, Saturn and Venus _ 


Mars, ¥enus and Mercury | Mercury (Virgo), Jupiter 
Sagittarius), 


Le 
Jupiter, Mercury and Jupiter (Piseas), and Mercury 


Venus Gemin 


Satum, Moon and Mars Venus, Saturn. Mars and Moon 
Satum. Sun and Jupiter Mars. Satum Venus and Sun 


Aquarius |Jupiter. Mercury and Jupiter (Sagittarius). Jupiter 
Satum (Pisces) 
Mars, Venus and Satum [Mercury (Gemini), and Mercury 


(Virgo) 


Table i 
The Most Potant Matoafic 
The eighth house and Its ford for each Lagna 


Mars 


Mercu 


Sagittarius | Moon - (itis sald that Moon as the eighth lord does not harm 
and is an exception. &ut it may not bo so. 


firtdogy. Destiny and the Wiel of Tine MEANING OF HOUSEB AND PLANETARY... 

Now one must pause and find and the reason why the eighth 
house has been treated {nm this fashion. 

Inherent in thls principle Is the fact that Is belng the twelfth 
house from the ninth house (house of luck), it ls the house oF its 
‘expenditure’ or “exliaustion’ and so jis detrimental, for father and 
fortune. 

The principle emerging out of thts |5 that the twelfth house form 
each house (Is detrimental to it, thus : 


AVIGS si scscsceiehiseteuts Gexaiesaedctectaeen PISCOS 
TAULUS, ....sesaeeccesecesesserseessamanseessenes ALES 
GOMINL.. «2. esc cce cece geceeseceueecee meses PAULUS 
CANCEl 5. eee eee GEMINI 
LEO dat aca wees peestreee Cancer 
MIO ensue cc aheseeets Oats pate nee Leo 
LiDiG ides aestilends a Mtg 
SCOMIO sa5 iscsar ree austen esas Libra 
Sagilanus...... ee eee Scorpio 
Capricom wi. eee wee SUGItBTIUS 
AquariUS............. 200 secereee___----. Capricom 
PISCOS oe a Aquarius 


Principle given fa these tables will have to be blended to arrive 
at a complete, composite and explanatory picture. 


CHAPTER UF 
DRAWABLE INFERENCES 
FROM THE TABLES 


It should be tarnembered that to fudge a horoscope no push- 
button formulae should be applied. A prediction must flow from 
classical astrology after applying. flexibly, the principles that can be 
Inferred from the tables given in the preceding chapter. 

Such inferences can be many. which can be tabulated In a long 
list as these Wil} fall Into various permutations and combinations 
because the position of the Jord of particular house {call it Pj), the 
aspects on different houses and planets (call It A) and conluc(lon of 
planets which Is the conjunctlen also of different ford of different 
houses (call It €), will have to be taken Into account. Call this a 
memory tablets: PAC which term would be used hereafter. 


The laferences Drawn and Drawable fromthe Tables 

In classelat astrology many inferences have been drawn by 
different authorities from these five tables. One can go on delng 
these, Yet some of them which have got standardised over a period 
of time are the following. 


First Principle 

When a planet Is both the Lagna lord and also the eighth lord, 
It is a benfic as Lagna ford but evil as the eighth Jord. This will be so 
In the case OF Arles Lagna when Mars [s both the Lagna lord and the 
eighth lord and In the case of Libra when Venus is both the Lagna 
lord and also the eighth lord. 

Concfusion Zhe general rule ts that the beneficence of it being 
the Lagna lord witt prevail unless the eighth house and the eighth 
Jord are dffficteci, mildly or tntensely. 


Agimiogy fanny ay dhe Wiel al Tae = ORAYVALY 1] OH IGHGIES FROM THE TABLES 


Second Principle 

A principle of relativity comes Into phiy. te reason being that 
\Fthree houses each are good or bad which one can be good, belter 
and best and which one ta'td, worse and warst will still have to be 
dedded, 

Though it has been commented on by many eminent writers, It 
may be better to decide thus on the individual merlts of A horoscope. 

Yet the staridardised principle are; 

(a) The third lord being malefic fs bad, the sixth lord worse and the 
cleventh lord the worst. 

(b} The second lord tS banefully neutral, the twelfth lord more 
baneful neutral and the eighth lord most banefully neutral, This 
can be modified to say that the second lord Is bad, the twelfth 
lord worse and the eighth lord the worst, 

(c) Similarly the fourth house is goad, the seventh house better and 
the tenth houe ihe best So thelr lords too will be + the fourth 
lord is good, the seventh lord Is better and’ the tenth lord (s the 
best. 

(d} Again following the same principle the fifth lord is better than 
the Lagna lord which ls good and the ninth lord Js the best 
Note Here while Jn all cases {#)}, fe} and (d) the relativity goes 

in direct order, Only In the case of (b) the order is the second ford 
is bad, the twelfth lord ts worse and the eighth ford fs the worst, 


Third Principle 

Lord of Kendras (quadrants) become neutral. From this flows the 
principle that benefics as lords of kencias lose their capacity to do 
good while malefics lose their capacity to do evil, Which then is 
good? Benefics not being able to aive their benfics results or malefic 
not being able to gtv2 malefic results? Obviously If benefics lose their 
capacity to glve benefice results it is a malor fass. 

Again this will need catergerisation, which Is done thus; 
Moon 

As fourth lord (for Aries ascendant) it Is bad only. 

As seventh lord (for Capricorn ) |t is bad only* 
Mercury 

As fourth lord {far Gemini) it Is bad only. 

As the tenth lord (for Virgo) l¢ls bad anly. 

As the seventh and the tenth lord (for Sagittarius) 1t Is relatively 
bad because seventh house is also the death giving house. 

As the fourth and the sevneth lord (for Pisces) It is relatively 


35) 


DRAWABLE INFERENCES FROM THE TABLES Astrology, Desiiny and to Vheal of Tima’ 


worse because here again Mercury owns the death-giving, seventh 
house. 
jupiter 

Now for Juptter and Venus bad results are relatively bad, worse 
and worst which will depend on the horoscope under scrutiny. 

jupiter as the fourth lord (for Sagittarius) Is bad and as the tenth 
lord (for Pisoes) [s bad by becoming neutral, 

As the seventh and the tenth ford (for Gemini) It can become a 
idller since it owns the seventh house also. As the fourth and the 
seventh lord, Jupiter can be a death-dealet (for Virgo) 

Venus 

As the second and the seventh lord (for Aries), Venus has been 
regarded as a doubly dcath-deallng planet as both the second and 
the seventh houses (houses of death) come Inte play here. 

As the fourth and the eleventh tord (for Cancer) It ts neutral for 
its ownership of twelfth house {Libra) but a mafefic as the owner of 
the eleventh house (Taurus). 

As the tenth lord (for Capricorn) Venus becomes neutral. 

Note: As wilt be shown Venus is a benefic for Capticorn. 

As the fourth lord (for Aquarius), Venus becomes neutral. 

Note: As will be shown Venus Is a benefic for Aquarius. 


Fourth Principle 
As lord of kendras (quadrants) mnatefics lose thier capacity to do 
evil. 
Note: Benefics as lord of Kendras becoming ineffective is bad. 
Malefics as lords of kendras becoming ineffective is good, 


CHAPTER IV 
RAHU AND KETU 


In Parasharl astrology, Rahu am Kem have nor been allotted 
ownership of any house. [nm Interpreting the effects of these, the 
standardised principles are used generally. 

(a) See where Rahu and Ketu are posited. ff they are in kendras 
they behave as kendra lords and ff they are posited In mikonas 
(tines} they behave Ike tikona lords. 

{b) The planers which aspect Rahu and Kem modify thelr nature 
according to their own nature, ownership etc 

(c) Planet which afe conjunct with Rahu and Ketu modify their 
results according to their own nature and ownership etc 


Some Exceptions 
In Interpreting the results of Rahu and Ketu sa me- exceptions 
have been made In some books. 

(a) The aspect oF Jupiter on Rahu and Ketu fends to them a snong 
protective cover to glve good results. {I have found It generally 
working very well}. 

{i) tn the case of Rahu and Ketu, especially, as In the case of other 
planets, the theory af dispositors Is applied. For example if Rahu 
is In Aries see where its lord Mars is, from the fagna. 

(c) Rahu and Ketu form an axis tn every horoscope. Each axis has 
a significance of Its own. ft is both a matter of controversy, 
dispute and bewilderment among astrologers, Deep researches 
have to be done as Rahu and Ketu fildela their bosom many 
mysteries OF a very deep nature. 


57 


CHAPTER V 
THE EMERGING PRINCIPLES 
OF INTERPRETATION 


Let it be stated at the outset that the Vimshattari dosha is 
misused mostly and rarely used properly. The best way of removing 
this deflcency ts to use simultaneously another dosha, as a support, 
as a supplementary ald, or, as aconfirmatory check for the prediction 
oeing given. 

All old and experienced astrologers use various dosha to narraw 
down the area of confusion like the Yogini dasha, the Ashtattari 
dasha, some of the specific dashhas given in Brihat Parashara Hora 
Shastra, which the trans{atoms or commentators have merely 
reproduced without themselves knowing how to use them. They 
have nelghther tearnect these different dashas nor have they done 
their own researches to remove this deficiency. 

The problem then is how to use the Vimshottari dosha with less 
confusion, it should be done by noting down the principles that 
emerge out of It, for which the dasha of each planet must be used 
Tn full three-fold manner; the mahadasha (major period); amtardasha 
(sub-pesiod); and the pratyantar dosha (sub-sub perlod}. Maharshi 
Parashara prescribes the use of five-Fold division by including 
sookshma dasha (sub-sub-sub pertod) and also prana dasha (sub-sul- 
sub-sub-perlod). 

A result-ytelding and effective method still Is to use + 

(a) The mahadasha (major period) 
(b) The antardasha (sub period)* 
{c) The pratyantar dastia (sub-sub period) and 
(d) Transits of planets duirng the duration of the pratyantar dasha 
(sub-sub periods). 
Yet to use the Vimshottari dasha In this manner some vital 
_pdndples must be kept in mind. 


Astology. Destiny and the Wieol of Tone THE EMERGING PRINCIPLES OF. 


SOME OF THESE PRINCIPLES 
The lords of kenetras Are described as Vishrut-sthan or as houses 

of Lord Vishnu, tie pratector; while the lords of tikonas are 
described as Lusinhsthan or the houses -of Goddess Lakshrnl. 
Combinations Of the lard of Vishau-sthanas with the lords af Lakshmf- 
sthatis produce rijayaya or combination for Hse ane prosperity. In 
how many ways It sir happen can be tabulated by teating the Lagna 
lord AS both A kerktra lord and @ irikena lord, These combinations are: 

ye Lagna lord and the fourth lord, 

2. Lagi lord anc the fifth lord, 

3. Ligna lord and the seventh lord. 

4, Lagna [red and the ninth lord, 

3, Lagna lord and the tenth tord. 

6, The fourth lord and the fifth lard, 

?, The fourth lord and the ninth Jard. 

8. The fifth lord and ihe seventh lord. 

9. The fifth lord and the tenth lord. 

t0. The seventh lord and the nimth lord. 

J, The ninth lord and the tenth lord. 


First Principle : Type of Relationship 
These ralayogas can manifest In three ways: 
(0) If both are canjwnet, together In one hause. 
(b) IF both ore aspecting each other mutually, 
{c) IF they have exchanged their places. For example the fourth lord 
is In the fifth house and the §fih lord In the fourth hous¢. 
(d) {f the fifth lord fs in the seventh and the tenth lord !n the ninth. 
in this way eleven multipted by: four gives forty four 
combinations which must be seen closely for sound predictions. 


Second Principle : Modification One 
If any of these combinations arc without any blemish they give 
best results fm their periods. 


The Third : Medificatlon Two 
Even Sf any of these forty four combinations are defective they 
are still capable of giving good results. 


The Fourth Principle : ModificationThree 
The mahadasha may nor be fajayoga producing yet If the antar 
and pratyantar dashas produce rajyaoga, good results can be 


58 


THE_ EMERGING’ PRINCIPLES OF  Asimlogy, Destiny and tha Yuheel of Time 


expected In their periods which will generally be a small but a good 
period, 


The Fifth Principle : Modification Four 

The mahadasha may be evil-producing but ifthe antardasha and 
pratyantar dasha are yoga producing, good results can stilt be 
expected inspire of a bad mahadasha. 


The sixth Principle : Modification Five 
Some planefs can be, being both kendra and tkona lords for a 
Lana, rajayoga producing as for example: 

(a) For Taurus, the planet Saturn as ninth lord Isa benefic but as 
tenth lord neutral. 

(b) For Cancer, The planet Mags Is the owner of both the fifth house 
(Scorpio), a trikona, therefore a benefic; and of Arles (the tenth 
house), a keridra, therefore, neutral. 

(c) For Leo, the planet Mars Is the lord of a kendra (Scorpio) and 
trikona {Aries}, therefore, it is yoga-producing. 

(d) For Libra, the planet Saturn is the lord of the fourth house ié 
neutral, while, as the lord of the fifth is excellent. [tt ls for this 
reason that for tlbrans, the period of Saturn has been described 
as the best period, 

{e} For Capricorn, the planet Venus is excellent as the fifth lord and 
neutral as the tenth lord. 

(f) For Aquarius the planet Venus is neutral as the fourth lord But 
excellent as the ninth loreL 


Summary 
Only for six Lagnas there are planets owning .houses which 
make them the best. The remaining six Lagnas have no such benfit. 
The planets for these Lagnas are: 


Lagna Owner of Kendra and tikons 
TAUIUS seeepere teteieneeee—— = SIU 

Cancer : ww... Mars 

GO sisiee ran tvter tases nee VER ee 

LIDFA voces to0505 Rite isc deaoaaqeendeasne ALLITMD 
Capricorn............. palace eericthehe ,» WenuUs 

Aquarius —,---+)--.-1--->-——————— Venus 


IF these planets, Mars, Saturn and Venus for these Langas, 
Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Elbra. Capricorn and Aquarius get connected 
with the lord of another trikona, they become excellent. This Is 


60 


Astrology, Desiiny and: tha Wheed of Tne THE EMEAGING PRINCIPLES OF, - 


elaborated here. 
1. For Taurus, Saturn and Mercury combined. 
2. For Cancer, Mars and luplter combined, 
4, For Leo, jupiter and AAas combined. 
4. For Libra, Saturna and Mercury combined. 
5. For Capricorn, Venus and Mercury combined. 
6. For Aquarus, Venus and Mercury combined. 


The Seventh Principle = Modification Six 

In Interpreding the periods of Rahu and Ketu apply all these 
principles to find when the period or periods are favourable and 
when they are unfavourable.. 


The Eighth Principle : Modification Seven 

Do notexpect best results ifthe ninth lord ts also the eighth lord 
as Saturn 1s for Gemini Lagna. 

Similarly do not expect best results when the tenth lord ts also 
the eleventh lord, as Saturn ts for Aries Lagna. 

Note: fn both eases Saturn is invalyed. 


The Ninth Principle : Modification Eight 

Twa excellent rajayoga producing planets may be associated 
{PAZ} and may yet get associated with an evil owner of a house. In 
that case rajayoga wilt still be produced but with some obstruction 
and with some defects. 


61 


CHAPTER VI 
MALEFIC PERIODS 
FOR EACH LAGNA 


Why and which period will be malefic, is explained with reasons 
thus; 


The first Principle 

The houses of longevity or span of.tife are the eighth house and 
the third house. Third house is the eighth from the eighth house for 
every Lagna, 

It has been explained that the twelfth house from every house 
ls the house of expenditure or exhaustion, Applying this principle the 
second house (twelfth from the third house) and the seventh house 
(twelfth from the eighth house) become fnaraka or killers. 


The second Principle 
Between the seventh house and the second house It is the 


second house which Is the stronger killer, The tabulated results for 
each Lagna the concerned houses will be : 


Aries. ........4 w.. Taurus (Venus) and Libra (Venus). 
TAURUS ...c.ca2081 Gemini (Mercury) and Scarpla (Mars). 
Gemini............ Cancer (Moon) and Sagittarius (Jupiter). 
Caricer .......... Leo (Sun) and Capricorn (Saturn), 

LOO sseserersaaeasess Virgo (Mercury) and Aquarius (Saturn). 
Wigan... ., Libra (Venus) and Pisces (Jupiter). 

Libra een... sree SCOrpio (Mars) and Aries (Mars). 
Scorpio........... Sagittarius (Jupiter) and Taurus (Venus), 


Sagittarius ..... Capricem (Saturn) and Gemini (Mercury). 
Capricorn ....... Aquarius (Saturn) and Cancer (Moon), 
Aquarius..........Pisces {Jupiter} and Leo (Sun), 

PISCES .4,.+04-7-. Aries (Mars) and Virgo (Mercury). 


oe 


Astrology, Dosing ard tet Witla of Tint MALEF|G PERIODS FOR EACH LAGHA 


The Third Principle 

If the houses of longevity, the third and ihe eigiish houses 
become weak or are spoiled what is the result? They toc must 
acquire death-dealing propensities. 


The fourth Principle 

Calculation of the span of fife fs @ very difficult area In astrology 
except in those cases when ft fs most obvious. So divide these 
periods into three catesorttes: 
{a)When by all accounts Ir Js inevitable, the worst will jappHen. 

(b) When by some accounts It appears to be had It tay not cause 
death but produce suffering which may be death-like 
conditions-, 

ic} When by very few ageaunts tL appears to be a period of 
suffering, there may be Illness or accident. 

In malting predictions these parameters will have to be applied. 
assessed and evaluated, 


The fifth Principle 

There comes the principle of FAC {pasted, aspected and 
conjunct) It the calculation of the periods of suffering. 

Death can take place in the periods of; 

(a) The mahacdasha and antardasha of marakas (second and seventh 
lords). Use the word maraka now. 

(b) The periods of planets in marala houses. 

(c) The periods of planets associated with maralta planets. 

(c} If there are no planets in marata houses and if no planets are 
associated with maraka planets then death can take place tt the 
mahadasha of the twelfth and the antardasha of the maraka 
planet, 


The Séxth Principle z Potency to kill In descending order 
Fabulate planets which have the strength to kill In the following 
order, starting from the strongest to the weakest. 
(a) The second lord Is the strongest Klller. 
(b) Next comes the seventh lord, 
ic) Next comes planer ar planets In the second fouse, which 
acquire pasitionally such power. 
(d} Next comes the planet or planets associated whh the second 
lord, 
(¢} Next planets Im the seventh house. 


a3 


MALEFIC PEA (GDS FOR EACH LAGNA Astrology, Guttiny and ina Whe of Tana 


(f) Next planets associated with the seventh lord. 

(g) lf none of the slx conditions given above Is fu | filled (lf the 
calculation of longevity takes us beyond this period) then death 
will take place In the maraka. mahadasha of the twelfth lord or 
in the twelfth house or associated with the twelfth lord, 

{h} Ifthe longevity calculated extends beyond all the seven periods 
given above, death can take place én fhe benefic antardasha’ of 
the ewelfti ford. 

{i} If the eight factors menttoned above do not become effective 
the eighth lord or # planet In the eighth house or a planet 
associated with the eighth lord can take Upon itself the role of 
a killer. 

(j) If the nine factérs are not available death can still take place in 
the evil periods, not failing in this category, which can be third, 
sixth and eleventh lords and their periods or planets In these 
houses or asstlated with the lords of these ‘houses, 


Summary of these ten periods 

The lords, the houses where such planets are posited and the 
planers associated with these lords cause agony, from sickness to 
death, fn order or intensity they are given under the sixth prin¢pte, 


Special Rate of Saturn 

Satum is described as Yarma or God of death. ifin any horoscope 
Saturn ts associated ‘as a lord of the third, sixth, eleventh or of the 
twelfth or eighth witfany maraka planet, he takes over the role of 
the primary killer in preference to other planets, 


Alternatively the role of Rahu 
Some commentators have given to Rahu same powers as 
SAUTN'S. 


Caution 
Astrologer must avoid predicting the Fatal. When (breed to do 
Ir, they must check Jt in various ways thoroughly; at least eight 
different methods. 
The mest general and most workable rule which applies to 
majority of horoscopes Is : 
(a) Long life ts guaranteed If benefics are Its kendras and 
(b) Malefies In the third, sixth and eleventh houses. 
(c) iFthe Lagna ford, the eighth lord and the tenth lord are in 


64 


Astrology, Destiny ard the Véhoat at Tin MALEFIC PERIOGS FOR EACH LAGNA 


kendra and in good condition. 
An astrologer must become cautious only when such conditions 
do not exist and when even trikomas are devoid af benafics. 


65 


CHAPTER VII 
EXALTATION/DEBILITATION 
OF PLANETS 


The Laghu Parashari on which the previous chapters are based 
is Mot an original book of Malasishi Parashara but an abbreviated and 
abridged and perhaps assimilated lessons some of his brilliant 
disciples learned from him and his work, This booklet Is actually 
known as Udeaya Pradeep with only forty stanzas In Sanskrit from 
which most ordinary astrologers, getting confused with the huge 
Britiat Parashara Hora Shastra with thousands of such points of 
subtlety which na astrologer can ever, singly , explain, use effectively, 
There [s no single good commentary In English of this great work 
excepe ene which was sold privately In cyclostyled farm many years 
ago. 

Some other translation available now are totally distorted In the 
basics Itself. For (nstance the order of Beva (God). Manushya (human 
being) and Aakshas (Monster) the cocal names of Navamsha for the 
moveable houses 1s not different for moveable, Rxed and dual rashls. 
The original Sanskrit stanzas translated by two lady Sanskrit 
professors of Delhi who have read three different texts,, revealed 
many such defects. 

Along With Uddaya Pradeep carmé® out another book which Is a 
smaiier booklet known as Madhya Farashatrf which the late great 
astrologer and Sanskrit scholar Sitatam lha edited after collecting 
niahy manuscripts. 

“ddaya Pradeep came to be known in course of time as Laghu 
Parashar’ while the Madhya Parashar! remalned with the title of the 
book uncnagncd. 

Out of the fear of hard work, tack of undetstanding and greater, 
lack of desire to go deep Into rhe Brihat Parashara Hora Shastri, the 
larer generations of astrologers mastered these small booklets and 


66 


Astrology. Destity.and the Wheel of Timo EXA4LTANON/DEGILITATION OF PLANETS 


did good astrological precdictlons.. 

Yet, when Icompared the commentary on the Brihat Parashara 
Hora Shastra and re-read the daghu Parashar, there appeared to be 
an over-compression of the original. 

Before the application of the principles of Vimshottari Dasha for 
actual predictions Is shown tirough case studles, let me produce 
three tables from the Bhat Parashara Hora Shastra to complete the 
classical framework of Hindu astrology, which Is the minimum an 
astrologer has to Know before using the Vimshottari Dasha. 


Table [ 
The condition of Planets 


Exaltation Debilitation 


Pisces 


Itis well known in Hindu astrology that after exaltation the next 
two best conditions for planets are what are known as mooltnkona 
house and then own house. Own house Is good, the mooltrikona 
house better and the exaltation house the best Given below are 
rnooltrikonas and own houses for these seven planets in which the 
limits {In terms of degrees) must be kept In the mind for a more 
precise use In Jairminl astrology later. 


Tabi |] 
The condition of Planets 
tricoitrikona Own Bouse 


Degrees 


"Leu 
Taurus 
Mars _ Ari 

Mercur 


EXALTANON/DEBIUTANION GF PLANETS 4shology, Destiny asd the Whoo) af The 


Now combine both the tables-and see it thus.: 
Sun 
1, ts exalted upto ten degrees In Aries. 
2. ts debilitated upto ten degrees In Libra (the seventh house). 
3. In meoltrikona upte twenty degrees In Lee ‘note the change). 
4. Is In own house from twenty te thirty dewrees in Leo, 

Nate: Sun is exalted fr Aries but both for maattrikoria and own 

house It has chosen fts-ows house, Leo. 

Mioon 
1. {6 exalted upto three degrees in Taurus. 
Z. {s debilitated upto three degrees In Scorpio (Seventh house) 
3. {s In mooltrikana from three to twenty seven degrees In Taurus. 
4, Is in own house In Cancel. 

Note: Moon has chosen its own house far the ‘awn'house title. 

Men 
\. {s exalted upto twenty eight degrees in Capricorn. 
2. Is debilitated upto twenty eight degrees {m Cancer. 
3. 1s in moottriikana house tn Artes upto twelve degrees only. 
4. {s im own house from twelve to thirty degree In Artes. 

Note: Mars, like Sun, has chosen Its own house for mooftrikona, 
Arles. Scoipia pelng the other house of Mars that is also its own 
disuse. But in Aries from twelve to thirty degrees fr ts alsa its own 
house. 

Mercury 
I. is exalted in Virgo upto fifteen degrees, 
1. Is debilitated In Pisces upto fifteen degrees. 
3. Is in mooltrtkona from fifteen to twenty degrees inVirgo. 
4. ls In his own house in Virgo from twenty to thirty degrees. 

Note: Obviously the best house for Mercury {s Virgo In all there 
ways. Gemini ts Its other own house, 
jupiter 

L is exalted upto five degrees in Cancer, 

2. is debilitated upto five degrees It) Capricorn. 

3. ls in mooltrikona upro ten degrees h1 Sagittarlus. 

4. is im own house fn the Sagitiarius from ten to thirty degree. 

Note: The other house owned by it is Pisces, 

Venus 
I. ts exalted in Pisces upta 27 degrees. 
2, ts debilitated in Virgo by 27 degrees. 
3. is in mooltrlkona in Libra upro fitteen degrees, 
‘4. Is in own house ftom ‘Afteen to thirty degrees In Libra, 


68 


Astrolagy, Qesbry and itis Velmmal a) Thine EXALT ATIOMMOI ILI [ATION Of FLANETS 


Note: The other ftrtise of its saws 15 founts, 


Soturn 


be 


2. 
3. 
4, 


is exalted in Libre upto twenty degrees, 

Is debilitats! in Arks upto twenty degrees. 

Is in macttiikand house upto ‘twenty degrees Us Aquatlus. 

is in its wit Geuae from twenty to thirty degrees ls Aquarius. 
Nofe; The wher house efits own Is Capricorn. 


Notable Potts 


Ts 


= 


for th to. waardcondittamef Sun zit ts good and better M11 Leo 
fat dyxese In Aries and waist In Libra. 

For that ssaadcondition of Moon: \t ls good in Cancer, better 
sired tant ti Taurus except the last thiee degrees of Tautus and 
wwiitsl {ti Scorplo; 

For fie good Conditions of Mars : \t Is good in Scorpio and 
list eighteen degrees of Arles, better In Aries again but best In 
Capricorn and Worst In Cancer. 

For the good conditions of Mercury lt Is good in Gemini and 
twenty to thirty degrees In Virgo, better In Virgo and also best 
In VTrgo where it is exalted while Pisces Is ihe worst house. 
For the good conditions of Jupiter + Jt is godd in Pisces, from 
ten to thirty degees In Sagittarius but best In Cancer and worst 
in Caprleorn- 

{Note: fuplter ts the only p laner whose mooltrikona house is 
nearest to Its house of debilitation, which is Capricorn). 

Tor the good conditions of Ven us: If l$good In Taurus, and from 
fifteen ro thirty degrees In Libra and better In Libra but best In 

Pisces while the worst Is Virgo. 

(Note : Venus moves out of its paint ofdebilitation In Viige 
and teaches [ts mooltrikona unlike lupiter who does the reverse 
of it.) 

For the good condition of Saturn : It ls good Iti Capricorn and 
twenty to thirty degrees of Aquarius, better in Aquarius and the 
best in Libra while worst In Asies. 

Notable : ‘These four conditions, exaltation, mooltrikona, own 


house and debilitation are ro be made use of subtly. These fine points 
shoufd be remembered. 


1. 
Z, 


To remember it note the mooltrikona tashl of each planet, 
Then note: 

Its house of exaltation and 1 lord. 

Note the lords of trikenas, fifth and ninth houses. 


63 


EXALTATIONDEBILITATION Of PLANETS Astrology, Destiny and flw Wheel of Time 


Table tl 
The conditien of Planets 


[| Friends | Enemies | Neutrals 
Moon. Mars, Jupiter 


Sun, Mercury Mars, Jupiter, Venus, 
Salum 


un i 

Mar*__|Sun, Moon, Jupiter 
Mercury |Sun, Venus __—‘|[Moon__| Mars, Jupiter, Satum 
upiter_|Sun,Moon,Mars _|Mercury. Venus |Salum 
Venus _| Mercury, Saturn 


Saturn |Mercury, Venus Sun, Moon, Mars] Jupiter 


3. Note the lords of the second, fourth, eighth and twelfth lords. 
They will be frlends of the planet concerned from its 
mooltrikona house. 
Now note the lords of third, six, seven, ten and eleventh. They 
will be enemies. 
When a planet falls In the category of both friends and enemy 
as In case of the Sun from Leo, the planet Mercury is a friend being 
second lord but, enemy being the eleventh lord it becomes a neutral. 


Mast Notable 

Except Moon who has no enemies, a planet which is the owner 
of the seventh house from the mooltrikona house of each planet Is 
its enemy. 

ft is such subtle points that help in predictions. Now remember 
the tl-shadaya principle, the third, the sixth and the eleventh lords. 
From a mooltrikona house owners of tr-shadaya houses are enemies 
and add to them the seventh and tenth lords from the same position. 

Combining these principles from Laghu Parasharl and Brihat 
Parashara Hera Shastra, the good, evil and ordinary planets for each 
Lagna is the basis for the interpretation of the Vimshoitari dasha. 


70 


SECTION I -B 


CLASSICAL KAMEWORK OF 
PREDICTIVE PRINCIPLES 


(BASED ON MADHAYA PARASHARH 


lt Is mat clear who wrote the other small work called the 
Machaya Parashad, \t again appears to be the werk of some disciple 
of Parashara who took out some principles from the great work, the 
Brihat Patashar Hera Shastra, culled out some vital principle and 
complled them here. Obviously this disciple felt that there should be 
a proper emphasis on Some points which theLaghu Parasia did not 
explain or, has even omitted. 

Some of these vital points from this book are given to show 
whar Is being emphasised and why. 


WI 


CHAPTER VIII 
SOME BASICS CLARIFIED 


|. The fifth and the ninth houses from the Lagna are wealth- 


producing houses. 


2. The fourth and the tenth houses are the houses which produce 


3 


* 


happiness. 

Except the Sun and the Moon, all other planets which own 
maraka houses (the second and the seventh houses from a 
Lagna) are maraka or death-dealing planets, 

Note: The Sun and the Moon have been seen to become 

maraka yet their role as maraka does not get emphasised fn 
classical works. 
Find out the nakshatra number of the Moon at birth, Then find 
out which arc the third, fifth anel seventh nakshatras. Now note 
down thier lords. The dashas of those lords can be difficult 
periods, sometimes even causing death ff the calculation of 
longevity leads to that conclusion. Let It be Wustrated with the 
first nine nakshatras because thls cycle will repeat In other two 
cycle also. 

Ashwink (1) - 3,5, 7; second round - {2, 14, 16; third 
round - 21, 23, 25 

Bharanl {2} - 4.6, 8; second round - 13, 15, Ff? third 
round - 12, 24, 26. 

In thls way you can make a table of your own which can be 
condensed {n terms of Vimshottari mahadasha thus: 

{Fihe birth dasha Is that of - 


Ker then Sun, Mars and Juplter. 
Venus then Moon. Rahu and Saturn. 
the Sun then Mars, fuplter and Mercury 
the Moon _ then Rahu, Saturn and Ketu. 
Mars then Jupiter, Mercury and Venus. 
Rahu then Saturn, Ketu and Sun, 


72 


Asintogy, Destiny and the “vnaal al Tom SOE BASICS CLARIFIED 


Jupiter then Mercury, Venus and Mann, 
Saturn then kat, Sun and Mars, 
Mercury ifyet? Venus, Moon and Rahu. 


These are tit methods of Interpreting the malefic Influences 
of different anita tafias, but caution ts necessary here. No hurried 
predict] ansshould be madeas such events must be crass-checked, 

5. Find out the twenty-second drekkana (decante} and note Its 
lord, A very «isy way of dolreit ls, pur the degree of the Lagna 
fn the elghth house. Now find out who is the lord of this 
dectate, This lord proves mafefie. For example Lagna Is Aries 
with nlne degrees. put it Im the eighth house (Scorpio) nine 
degree*. The lord !s Mars, the lord of the first deeante of 
Scorpio, 

6. The twenty-third nakshatra lord from the birth nakshatra proves 
had, Which can again be tabulated thus: 


Birth Nakshatras Twenty-third Nakshatras 
{Ashwini (eru) Dhranishita (Mars) 
1, Bharant (Venus} Satabhisha {¢ Rahu) 


In th ts way you can prepare your own table, 
But these principle must be seen Invariably. These can be 
tabulated as bad, worse and the worst. 


CHAPTER, TX 
RAJAYOGAS 


A Forewarning is given here by giving a secret method of 
finelisg out which particular lord fs bound to prove bad. There being 
some conflicting Interpretations and calculations, Uk will be discussed 
in another book after it has been tested on many horoscopes, 

After applying thls secret formula only should an astrologer 
proceed to predict the good events of life. Yet for our purposes, the 
basics clarified in the previous chapter, Wilt be sufficient, 


The First. Principle 
The house In which the lords of kendra and trikona combine 
(through conjunction or seventh aspects) become gaed houses. 


The Second Principle 
Out of the four kendras (1, 4, 7. 10) the fourth house and the 
tenth house ate better and the best houses of happiness. 


The Third Principie 
Out of the three trikonas (1.5, 9) the fifth and ninth houses are 
better and best houses. 


The Fourth Principle 

Kendras are lords of the Vishnu hauses (the god who protects) 
while trionas are lords of Lakshmi houses (the goddess, who 
bestows prosperity). Thelr combination is rafayoga, or elevatlan- 
giving combinations. 


The Fifth Principle 


If the Rh!ord }s {In the ninth house and the ninth lord tn the fifth 
house (exchange) It Is very good. 


74 


Astodogy, Destiny and tie “éligal ut Piva RAJAYOGAS 
The Sixth Principle 

IF the fifth iord awit tlith lord aspect cach other mutually, it is 
excellenr. (Later, waz anexception]. 


The Seventh Prine ple 

lf the faurily lord is in the tenth house o; Ur tenth lord tn the 
fourth house, aspacted or conjolned with the fifth are! (Of) ninth lord, 
lt is excallent, 


TheEighth Principle 
ifthe Lagna lord, the fourth lord, the Fiftfi lord, the olisth lord 
and the tenth lord combine in the ninth house, I! !s excellent. 


Tite Nine Principle 
ifthe fourth lord and the fifth tord together with the tenth tera 
‘fg conjunct and are aspected by the ninth terd, tls excellent. 


The Tenth Principle 
If the Lagna lord, the fifth lord and the ninth lord fall tr the 
Lagna, ihe fourth or the tenth hquse, it 1s exceltent. 


Note 

f. Mote the patterns given here and .weark out their permutations 
and combinations, They will be many. !fthey are two, or three 
or four such combinations, using your imeginatlan you can call 
two as good, three better and four the hest etc. 

2. The Principle of R.A.C. (posited, aspected, conjunct) should be 
applied liberally and Mexdbly. It svil! show good results Ir some 
cases. better In some and best !n some other cases. 

3. Now see In which houses from the Lagna they are combining, 

iF it is Im the Lagna, the fourth, the fifth, the ninth or the tenth 
house Itis the bes! posittan. Again here the house Involved 
leads to varied Interpretation. 
Naw apply the mahadasha properly. # a fruitful dasha does not 
come in time, the promise fn the horoscope remains an empty 
promise only. There are many people Jn tndla who sec such 
combinations in their horoscopes and tell astrologers that 
nothing great has happened In their lives Insplte of the such 
‘excellent’ cajayogs. The answers are many. Primarily the dasha- 
sequence and, then the streneth of these ptanet etc, 


- 


73 


CHAPTER X 
DHANA YOGAS 


(GIVER OF WEALTH) 


Some subtler principle ate given here. They should be used 
Invariably to see the strength and the ‘defects* visible tn the wealth- 
giving combinations, 

See the natural benefics and natural malefies first. 

Now see if they are aspected by the fifth or alnth lords. If so. 
they will Improve qualitatively. 

If they are aspected by the sixth, eighth or twelfth lords or 
marakas (for the Lagra concerned) or cenjunct, it is negative In the 
results it gives. 

The nature of the planes, their strength, their association, 
aspects on them will have to be weighed properly always. 


The Principle 

tf the ninth house happens to be the house of Jupiter (Sagittarius 
or Pisces) and If fuplter is conjomed with Venus or the tifth lord, 's 
gives great Wealth. 

This can apply to = 

(a) Aries which has Sagittarius as the ninth house. 
(b) Cancer which has Pisces as the ninth house. 

Note =: Jupiter and Venus in benefic houses are excellent. If it 
happens to be Sagittarius, Jupiter will be in his monltrikona house 
and the second tard (money-giver) “ill be Joining It. Now IF the fifth 
lord (the ford of Lakshml! house) Jolns, It Is a combination of fifth and 
ninth houses or thelr lords in a house of Lakshml, which is the best 
house for great wealth. 

If it happens in Pisces here Venus gets exalted and Mars the 
yogakaralta planet too becomes excellent. 


Th 


Astrotogy, Ocstny and the Weel of Time: DHANA YOGAS 


The Axis of the Fifth and the Eleventh houses 
Now concentrate on some planets and the fifth house In each of 
the following cases. 

(a) If the Lagna is Aquarlus or Taurus and Mercury as the fifth lord 
ls in his own house and Mars with Moon Us In‘the eleventh 
house. 

(b) if Capricorn or Gernin! Js the Lagna and Venus a5 fifth lord is in 
his own house and Mercury with Saturn In the eleventh house, 

(c) IF Aries Is the Lagna and fifth house has the fifth lord (Sun) in it 
and Jupiter Is In the eleventh house. 

(d) For Virgo Lagna, if Saturn Js tn the fifth house and Moon In the 
eleventh house. 

(ce) For Libra Lagna. if Saturn ts an the fiffh house and Moon In the 
eleventh house. 

{f} For Leo or Scorpio Lagna, if the fifth lord {Jupiter} Is In hls own 
house and Moon and Mercury in the eleventh house. 

(a) For Pisces Lagna, if the fifth house has Moon and the eleventh 
house Venus. 

All the above, (a) to ¢g) are wealth giving combinations. 


Table 1 
Tabulation of Dhana Yoga 


[lagna |Houses| Planets | = Comments 
Aries 9th Jupiter with Venus {The importance of fifth and ninth 
house — Jor fifth Sard lords and benefics. 


Aries th and {Sun in fifth house, {Again ihe fifth lord and the ninth 
{egain) 11h Jupiter in the lords but along with the five- 
houses jefaventh hause. eleven house axis. 


Taurus Sth and |Mercury in fifth; The fifth fard should he In hls own 
W1ih Moon. tars in house but Moon and Mars tn the 
houses jeleventh eleventh house. 


house but Salum is the ninth ford 
also. 


Cancer 9th Jupiter and Venus; |Mere Jupiter must be in the ninth 
house for Jupiter and Mars [house associated either with the 
eleventh lord or the fifth lord 


Li fifth tard In hisown |The stress is on houses and 
house; Eleventh lord|benefic planets with the fifth lord 
In his own house in his own house. 


with Moon 


Gemini 5th and {Venusin Sih Satum, |The fifth lord in his own house, 
Mercury in 11th Mercury (Lagna lord) with Saturn 
(though debilitated In the eleventh 
e0 


77 


DHANA YOGAS Astrology, Oesliny and (ho Wheal of Tima 


Table i {contd.) 
Tabulation of Dhana Yoga 


Virgo 5th and [Filth lord in hts own |The stress i is on the fifth lord and 
11th house; eleventh lord |the eleventh lord which Is tho lord 
ihouses {in his own house of gains, 


Libra 5th and (Fifth lord in his @wR |Same as above, 
house; eleventh lord 
in his own house 


Fifth lord in his own |The fifth lord in his own house, 
house; eleventh lord|the eleventh lord in his own house 
in hls own house with the ninth lord. 


avith Moon 
Sagittarius |No No mention 

mention Inlo for great wealth though it will 

gel covered in ihe second table. 

Capricorn |5th and |Venus In his own The fifth and ninth lords tn one- 
house; Salum and {Seven relation with Satum, the 
Mercury In lhe Lagna lord. 
eleventh house 


Scorpio 


This #ill have lo be investigated 


Mercury in his own 
house; Mars and 
Moon in eleventh 
house 


Here the fifth and ninth lord do not 
combine but Moon joins it. The 
eleventh lord has no fele, But the 
eleventh house has a definite 
rola. 
Here neither the ninth lord nor the 
eleventh lord has @role. Strangely 
Venus the third and eighth lord 
becomes so prominent. 


Fifth lard in 
his own house 
but Venus in 

eleventh house 


7g 


Atirotogy, Destiny and the Wheel of Time 


DHANA YOGAS 


Table 2 
Tabulation of Ohana Yoga 


Mars in Lagno with Jupiter Lagna lord and tha ninth fards come 
Scorpio 


and Moon 
Venun Inthe fagng 

and Libra [Associated with Mercury 
and Saturn ~ 


Marcury.should be in the 
and Virgo |lagna associated wilh the 
Moon and Jupiter 


Cancet =| The Moon in the Lagna in 


Mercury will hava 10 bo In Ihe Lagna 
with Venus. Salum shoutd.be 
aspecting these two, In either case 
ihe fifth sad ointh Jords came into 
play. 

In the case of Gemini !I Is the 
combination of the Lagna and 
secand lords wilh Jupller. In (he case 
of Virgo, it should be Ihe Lagna and 
the eleventh lord wiih Jupiter 


in this combinalion Mars and Jupiler 


Assaciatian of Jupiter and |can even be debilitated. fis a 


Mars. 


The Sun in Leo and the 
association of Mars and 
Ju iter. 


Sagittarius| Jupiter In the Lagna 


associated wilh Venus and 


Mercur 

Satum In the Lagna 
associated wilh Mercury, 
Venus 


1 


remarkable exception. 


Combination of the Lagna, fifth and 
ninth lords, 


Stress is on benefics. 


Inthe case of Capricorn It will be Ihe 
lagna ford, fifth and ninth lords 
combining. The same will be the 
case for Aquanus. 


CHAPTER XI 


YOGAS FOR DEPRIVATION 
AMD POVERTY 


The balancing factor 1s the negative side of a horsocope in which 
sertaln owners of houses and the cencerned houses must be 
examined before launching Into prediction, Sixteen such prncipies 
have been given, Instead of remembering all these principtes, the 
essentia) points to be remembered are: 

{a} Examine the Lagna lord, (ts plancement in the sixth, eighth or 
twelfth house with the aspecrs of malefic, which would Include 
the maraka planets for the Lagna concerned, on the Lagna lord, 

{h) Owners of sixth, eighth and twelfth houses ¢an spoil a good 
horoscopes by posh tening themselves wrongly. 

(c) Even two bencfics badly placed In a horoscope can be ruinous. 

(ad) The Nayvarnsha lords of the- Lagna lord and the Moon-sign lord 
must be examined, 

All the sixteen combinations revolve around these four essential 
pincdples. Now the combinations given therefore can be 
conveniently divided under these four heads. 


Lagna Lord and Lagne 

1. if the Lagna lord Is in the twelfth house and the twelfth lord In 
the Lagna conjoined with or aspected by a marala, & causes 
rulm and even death. 

2. Ifthe lord of the Lagna 1s tn the sixth house and the sixth lord 
in the Lagna conjoined with of aspected by a maraka, it is 
ruinous. 

3. If the Lagna has the Moan with Ketu and the Lagna lord is In 
the eighth house, aspected by or conjoined with a Maraka, it Ls 
so teriblty ruinous that even a prince becomes a pauper. 

4. {Fthe lord of the Lagna is conjomed with a malefic In the stxth, 


$0 


teirotogy, Destiny and thy Whani of Tua YOGASFOns URVATION AND POVERTY 


eighth or twelfth hotse aspected by a maroka even A prince 
becomes & PRM, 
NotablePalma in all these case the Liyta ford should be 

both Hi-placed wut! fittspected or with malefle conjunctions. 
5. Except the ind, and the tenth lords, If Other maluiles conjoined 
with a maraka are {ty Lagina, It ts ruinous. 

Tite tilth combination does not refer to ihe tarth of Lagna but 
rey the hageadinelf, 
If tive Litgii lord {= conjoined or aspected by wnly the Sun or 
Saturn of’ with the twelfth lord and has no benefic tepest, Ht is 
ruinous. 

Note: Here there Is no stress talat on the positioning of the 
Lagna lord in the sixth, eighth or twelfth houses. 
dhe Gist : These stx principles, out afsixteen, concerntrateon 
the Lagna @e the Lagna fata. These very combinations can be nade 
use of for sickness (medical astrology) or assassination it 


m 


Owners ofthe Sixth, Eighth and Twelfth Houses 

7. Treat the lords of sixth, eighth and ‘twelfth houses as malefic 
aleng with natural miatefics. Mow the association of these 
planets or owners of these hauses spell ruln, fs a general 
principle. 

8. Any planet which ls conjoined with or aspected by the sixth. 
éioth or twelfth lords or, mangas, without being aspected by the 
fifth or ninth lords, spelts ruination. 

9, iihe fifth and ninth lords are along the axls of the sixth and 
twelfth houses and are conjoined with or aspecled by marakas, 
they spell tuin. 

10. The lord of any house placed In the twelfth, eighth or sixth 
houses and under affliction caused by malefics or Marakas, gets 
ruined. 


The Second Hause, the House of lncome 

IL. IF both the Moon and Mars arc jn the second hause, I spells 
ruin. {lfon the other hand Saturn is In the second house and 
Mercury In the eighth house, it promotes prosperity,) 

(2. IF ¢ he Sun is In the second house aspected by Saturn it causes 
misery, {But if Saturn does not aspect the Sun in the second 
house, It gives lot of praspertty.} 


YOGAS FOR DEPRIVATION AND POVERTY Astrology. Destiny and mo Wheel 01 Timn 


When Benefics Cause Ruin 

13. lf benefics, juptrer, Venus and Mercury, are in rhe twelfth house 
they become obstacles to a ‘ifs of prosperity, 

14, Ifthe Moon and Mercury are In the twelfth house they ¢atise 
poverty. 


Using Nevamsha 

15. IF the Navamsha lord of the Moon is with a maraka or In a 
maraka place, Itcauses poverty. 

16, IF the Navamsha lord of tie Lagna Is In the twelfth house and 
aspected by marakas or malefies, It causes poverty. 


Final Assessment 

The finest hint about the flnAl assessment is given. In the briefest 
way now. Examine the strength or weakness of the planets causing, 
prosperity or poverty. The final assessment must be based on the 
emerging picture which can be. 

la) Prosperity promoting pinaets are stronger than poverty causing 
planets. 

(b} Poverty causing planets are more powerful than prosperity 
causing planet; 

{<) The prosperity <ausing pianists and poverty giving planets are 
almost In equal strength. tn such cases both will happen, spells 
of prosperlty and spells of poverty, In different dashas, 

(d) The benefic roles of the fifth and ninth lords and the malefic 
roles ofthe slxth, eighth ancl twelfth lords, Ill associated or IIt- 
aspecterl must be weighed with reference to their positions, 
strength and dasha periads to predict properly. 


CHAPTER XT 
BENEFIC PERIODS 


Steps leading towards the interpretation of das has are four: 
(a) The first Is to see the marakas, or death-giving planets. Jt IS no 
use making predictions If these are overlooked, 
{b) The second step is to examine the positlon-glving {rajayogal 
combinations. 
(c) The third step Is to sec the money-glving combinations. 
{d} The fourth step Is to see the milsery-causing combinations. 
Keeping this four-fold analysis now proceed to Interpret the 
dosha periods which will fall Into three categories : 
{a} The benefic 
{tb} The malefic 
(c) The mixed periods which ate both benefic and malefic, 
But in this. book only benefic periods have been pointed out 
leaving the readers to work out the malefic and hte mixed periods. 
There are at least fourteen combinations to find out benefic 
ones. Then there aré three mare combinations where exceptions 
change malefic Into benefics, 


The principles involved are; 

{a} The rale of the fifth and the ninnth lords which are described as 
lord of Lakshmif-sthans (or pxyospertiy promoting places and 
lords). 

(b) The roles of the Lagna, fourth and the tenth houses and lords. 

(Note = seventh lord is not included here). These are 
Vishnusthartas or houses or protection from life's miseries and 
troubles. 

{c) There are exceptions which should be called special muafes. 


The combinations 
1. The antardasha (sub-period) of the ninth lord In the mahadasha 


R3 


BENEFIC PERIODS Asuofogy. Casting a40 0 Wheto? Time 


(raijar period) of the ninth lord is beneficial. 

2. The dasha of the ninth lord conjoined with the fifth lord gives 
position and children. 

3, Similarly the dasha of the fourth lord conjoined with the tenth 
ford gives prosperity, 

4, Planets aspected by of conjoined whith fifth or the ninth lord 
promote prosperity. 

5. The period of the Lagna lord associated wlth the fifth or the 
ninth lord gives prosperity and position. 

6. The period of the tenth lord Im the ninth house i benefictak. 

7. Ifthe fourth lord is itt the tenth house and tenth lord in the 
fourth house, both of tiiel: periods ae beneficial. 

&. The fiftheand ninth lords and the fourth and the tenth lords turn 
other planets associated With them Into beneficial periods. But 
these four planets should be together in one place Is the 
precondition, in the company of four beneficial planets the non- 
benefical planets toa have to act in a beneficial manner. 

9. The period of the fifth and tenth lord In the fourth house is 
beneficial, 

19. Any planet associated or aspected by the fifth or the tenth lore 
is benefictal. 


The Exceptions 

i! . ifthe second and the seventh lords for any Lagna arc the same 
as Venus ts for Aries ar Mars is for Libra and if It Is In the fourth 
house, it #$ an excellent period. 

This can be explained thus: 

(a} Venus Im the fourth house (Cancer) for Aries Lagna 1s a good 
period. 

<b} Mars in the fourth house (Capricorn) is a beneficial period far 
Libra Lagna. Here Mars gets exalted also. 

12. The periods of the sixth and seventh lords also becomes 
beneficial IF they arc sith ihe tenth lord or are in the tenth 
house. 

13, lFthe sixth Jerd, the eighth lord or the twelfth lord lis associated 
with the fifth lard, these pelrods alsa become good. 

Note:The three planers or j free owners of houses are capable 
of turning bad periods into good ones; the filth lord, the tenth 
tordand the Lagna lord In this descending order. But needless to 
say it would depend on the strength of the planets. 


4 


CHAPTER XIII 


INTERPRETING 
VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


For the sake of convenience principles given in both Lagu and 
Madhaya Parashar? for imerpreting the Vimshottari mahadasha {majer 
period) and antardasha (sub-periods) we being given here, The 
principles given for the interpretation of the antardasha can te 
extended to the pratyanrar dasha {sub-surb-perod)as well. 


First Principle 

Benefic or malefic. planets do not give their benefic or rnaiefic 
results In their own antardasha. 

They give their results in the antardashas ot planets associated 
with them or similar to them 1@. malefic In malefic or benefic tn 
benefic 


Second Principle 

In the antardashas of planers mot associated with the mahadasha 
lord or in the antardashas of the enemy of the mahadasha Jord, the 
astrologer should exercise his Judgement carefully. 


Third Principle 

In the mutual periods of lord of kendra and wiltona who are 
associated, good results flow. 

If they are not associated, the results can be inauspicious. 


Fourth Principle 
{the dosha ofa yagakaraka ts running then: 
{aj} Even in the antardasha of a maraka planet, the promised 
rafayoge which had got started already, does not gel 
extinguished. Jt can Increase ls beneficial results gradually. 


Ais 


INTERPRETING VIMSHOTTARI BASHA Astrology, DesiIny and tha Wheat o] Tune 


(b) In the antardasha of a‘benefic assolcated with the yoga-karaka 
happiness can be expected. 


Fifth Principle 
[F Rahu and Ketu ate tn trikona {particulary In the fifth ar ninth 
houses) they give the beneficlal results of a yogakaraka dastn. 


MIXED RESULTS 


Sixth Principle 
(a) JF tte mahadasha period ts ofa malefic the results ofeven a 
benefic aniardasha can be troublesome; if they are not 
associated mutually. 
(b} lf they arc associated, they glve mixed results. 
{c} The antardasha of a yogakaraka in the mahadasha of a malefic 
is exceedingly bad, 
(Note: this Is teh entgmatic exception) 


Seventh Principle 

In the mahadasha of a maraka, a benefic antardasha does not 
become a killer. 

Im the antardasha of rmnalefics not associated with the maraka- 
lord {IF the time has come according to calculation) It gives surest 
death. 


Efghth Principia 

Saturn and Venus im their mutual! periods ( In Venus mahadasha 
and Saturn antardasha and vice versa) have good or bad results 
according to their over-all position but In a way which Is entirely 
different. 

Saturn-Saturn wlll be Ike Saturn-Venus. 

Venus-Venus will be Ike Venus-Saturn. 


Ninth Principle 
(a) IF the Lagna [ord Is It1 the tenth house and the tenth lord in 
Lagna or; 
(6) IF both the Lagna lord and the tenth lord are in the tenth house 
or 
(¢) IFboth Lagna fatd and the tenth lords are In the Lagna, #€ Is not 
merely a combination for tafayoga but also promise of great 
fume. This happens fn good periods. it is 2 tfe-iong promise. 


fir. 


Astrology, Deeilnry and the Vvhoel a! Taino INTERPRETING WIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


Tenth Principle 
As inthe case of the predicting principle so too here: 
(a) If the Lagna and ninth lords are together In the ninth house. 
(b) If the lagna and ninth fords are together In the lagna. 
There Is a rajayoua, and -fame. It ts a life-log combination. [ts 
results are avallable tn good periods. 


‘ 


C TER XIV 
RESULT OF ANTARDASHA 


Special Features 

So far the Impression being given was that all predictions are ta 
be given from the birth horscope, but now come rhe real principles 
of Interpretation, to apply which do prepare in all cases: 

(a) The Birth Horoscope with Agrees accurately. 

{b) Now prepare the navamsha. 

Examine how these planets are placed here and In which 
houses. Then also note the lords of those houses. Finally see the 
lords of these houses and their relationship with the Lagna lord of 
the birth horoscope. 

(c) The final step IS to make an-overall assessment to examine each 
planet by preparing the Drekkana (one-third division}, the 
Dwadashamsha (one-twelfth division) and the Trimshamsha 
(one-thirtleth division), 

Niake an overall assessement now, which can be dane tn a 
tabular way thus: 
Birth herascope Navamsha  Drekkana Dwadashamsha 
Lagna lord 
Second lord 
Third lord ate. 


See whether they aren the houses of the Lagna lord, the fourth 
lord, fifth lord or ninth lord. 


The Easy Way 
Retain birth Lagna as its Suppose the Lagna is Cancer then: 
(a) In the Navamsgha put all planets as they are: In the Navamsha, 
but, with Cancer, as the Lagna The birth Lagna will be 


88 


Astrology, Bastiny ahd di Wheel ot Unio RESULT OF ANTARRASHA 


unchanged, 

(b) Do so again lit tie ease of Drekkana, Dwadashamsha and 
Trimshamsha, 

Now see how stu1sy planets are placed In tha Lagna Cancer, the 
fifth house (Scarpa), fauih house. (ibray and ihe ninth house 
(Pisces), 

Now the Witee Important paints should be nated: 

(a) In the case af Lagna lerd, it should be In the Lagna most of the 
tie tot good results to happen In the antardasha of.the Lagna 
inci, 

{19} Tarts Itythe fourth and fifth housés denote good antitcdasnas. 

(ch Planets in the ninth house arc very good perlods. 
fi clearest hint given here is that predietlons about 

aotarcdashas-should be given after seeing the position oF planets tn 
different divisional horoscopes. 


The Key factor 

The major and most important analysis Is to be based on the 
Sapta-varga analysis of these planets : Birth horoscope. Hora, 
Drekkana, Navamsha, Saptamsha, Dwadashamsha, and Trimshamsha. 
Now the analysis should be done of each planet on the basis of their 
position in houses of exaltation, moaltlkona, own house, friend's 
house, neutral house, enemy house and the house of debilitation. 

The results ofanrardashas will be based on this ftvo-faldanalysis 
of a Hhorostope. 

Experience shows that a dasha is rarely extraordinary, mostly 
mixed and rarely fully bad, 


On Accurate Horoscope 

All experienced astrologer use the Birth horoscope, Navamsha 
and Shashtyamsha fone-sixtleth division} which are the three most 
Important horoscope. The points of strength allotted by Parashara to 
different divisional horoscopes are : 


Birth horoscope.......100...40.. 37 paints 
Navamsha........0....... sitactaxse 3 points 
Shashlyarisha o.oo 4 points 
Total -1-........ eaeieien eeu Dapeethints + 19'?points 
Flota., (\ Seika asses | PoInts 
DrekhaAa weet + 7 points 
Tilmshamsha ......... 2. eae 1 points 
Shodashamsha..................-+2 poinls 


a 


RESULT OF ANTARDASHA Astrtogy, Destiny and the Whoo) of Tims 


TOtdlvccrc chet eSaeseseiceiisceeatets 46! points 
fn the femeainingnine divisional horoscope ‘' polnta aah 
Grand Total yeacemune........ 20 points 


The reason for pointing Kt out Is that at least the Birth horoscope 
and Navamsha must be examined before giving any predictions,’ Itt 
‘the Interpretation of dasha periods these should be seén litvarlably, 


TROUBLESOME ANTARDASHA 

Principles being given hére arc time-tested criteria for 
predicting about the periods of sickness etc. These are fatal periods 
which can cause accidents or deaths. 


Principle One 

The natardashas of the sixth, eighth and twelfth lords are 
troublesome. 

Caution = Note thelr affliction and then predict. 


Principle Two 
Iv the antardashas of the Lagna or th sixth lord associated with 
maraka planets. there is sickness. 


Principle Three 

Now comes the real use of the shad-vatgas (Birth, Hora, 
Drekkana, Navamsha. Dwadashamsha and Trimshamsha). 

The condition {s, If the lagna and the sixth lords are conjunct and 
If the lagna lord falls mostly In unfavourably shad-vargas (let us say 
mote than three times) the likely nature of diseases (dactar- 
astrologers should use it) are z 

Lagna Lord in the shad-varga of - 


DUM cecseviceteve mer Pile POGT........0..... {can be heart problem) 

Moon ves... f8fa MGB: {pleurisy, pneumonia eld) 
Mame wi... wee UCI L0Rd y.... ce {relating \o blood) 
Mercury....... ree WOU OGA..........! (windy complaints} 

JAUPHEL were KOPN rogad ....-.... (diabetes, kidney ele.) 

VeNUS motu. Sfreesangam .Janyadosha (sexual diseases) 
Satur. .  sannipaatroga__ (paralysis etc). 


Note : Here Rahy and Ketuy arc net’ usec. It would be better 
to Use them also. But when the Lagna and slxth lords are conjoined, 
only then this becomes applicable. 


a0 


Astology, Bestiay and te Wheal of Timo (WESULT OF ANTARDASHIA 
Principle four 

In the mahattawtw sf ihe Lagna lord or the sixth lerd the 
antardasha of a rinuaks {4ttie period to be feared as lt can be a deain* 
inflicting period, or In{wy through weapons. 


Principle Five 

lf Rahu or Ketw ts in the eighth house or Saturn, Mars are 
assacdlecl (one of them is enough) with maraka. It 1s A period of 
danger slekness, accident or even death. 


Principle Stx 

Instead of the Lagna lord, if the sixth Jord conjoined with the 
thir Jord, it means trouble to brothers and sisters; If with the fourth 
‘lord, from vehicles and to mother; if with the ninth lord hostility 
towards father and disease for father. 


Principle Seven 

A natural malefic lagna lord (Mars, Saturn, Sun etc) conjoined 
with the sixth ot the eighth lord or the marala lord, Is a period to 
be feared, There can be disease, Or mourning ete. But IF such a 
combination Is aspected by benefics the difficulties get reduced. 


X 


CHAPTER XV 


GREAT PRINCIPLES 
SUCCINCTLY STATED 


In all great classics great principles are stated indetail, and In 
Uttara kafarnrita it \s most detailed. Bul hete are given very brief, very 
useful principles, which should be remembred as the basic rudiments 
for understanding the nature of results that can be expected. 


First Principle 


Jupiter and Venus Brahmins {educated, wise men etc). 


Sun and Mars 


Ksheliya {men in arty, police and 
in high positions) 


Moon and Mercury Yoishays (business and commerfical class) 


Salum 


Shudra = (servant, service class). 


Rahu and Ketu Antyaj (foreigners, heterodox porsoms). 


Second Principle 


The categorisation of rashis also follows thls order: 


Brahmin 
Pisces 
Cancer 
Scorpio 


Third Principle 


Kshatriyas Valshya Shudrm 
Anes Taums Gemini 
Leo Virgo Libra. 
Sagittarius Capricorn Aquarius 


Each planet, whatever be the Lagna, Is the natural slgnifeator of 


certain houses. 


First House..... 


toads niente OU) 


Second HOUSE .1440--r0—aree Jupiter 


Third House..,.. 


Fourth House 


Fifth House .... 


dsaluia tears. es Mars 
FVIT CTT Prev yr es---- Moon 


ree ee eee JUTE 


7 


talnAjgy. Destiny end ihe Whoct of Tame GREAT PRINCIPLES SUCCINCTLY STATED 


Sixth Housa............ eens ~ Mercury 
Seventh Hovee wa. y........ Vonus 
Eighth House .,....... yiegic SOTUlTI 
Nini House o. sssesseeeres JUpiter 
Tenth HOS jue... Moon 
Eleventh House o........ »--»«- Jupiter 
Twelfth HOURO wn... us GRIT 


Fourth Principle 

Sluniffcators for relations are : 

Sun (father; Moon (mothery Mercury, Venus, Satutn (brothers, 
sisters), ddMars {children}; Sun (friends): Rahu and Saturn (enemies), 

(There is some djfferene In the signification of Mars and other 
planets here). 


Fiftl: Principle 
Another very vita! signification allotted planet-wise Is: 


Salum and Mars... au. palarnal side 

Jupiter, Venus and Mercury maternal side 

SUN ANd MOON aneieenernne royalty 

Mars we....... Laiacopaemennton leadership, commanders, 

Mercury ses-ny sey ,-__ he Prince, or the successor, helt 
tesumplive 

Jupiter and Venus............... advisors, ministers etc, 

RET CIETY aces vsceveubtvctedi tac bsauckectee servant. 


Sixth principle (0 great exception) 
Saturn tn Aries represents paternal side. 


Seventh Principle 
All planets give their results in their antardashas. 


Eighth Principle 

in the shad-vargas If a planet f& predominantly in the vargas of 
& particular planet. gains from the source represented by that planet, 
are obtainable. 

In the shad-vargas of : 


MEAN sitasepeeipp eases Caran eced from paternal side 
Moon... Oe from matamal sida 
MalsS.............cc000cceeeeeeee form sons and leaders 
MEICURY wiges sei hoe enctccothrvors) 1 from brothers 


43 


GREAT PRINGIFLES SUCCINCTLY STATED Astrology, Destiny and th Wheel of Th 


GUMS acs serach vieieen eteiencain from respected persons ond ministers 
VONUS terete cccatecsccceeecesse. fom mother and women 

SII sacar Re nceneseananevedeew once from lower classes. 

Rahu ar Ketu..................:061 fram foreigners 


Moté the differenes here. There is a ear departure from 
accepted principles. But strict fidelity to what given In the text has 
been maintained. 


PD: 


‘CHAPTER XVI 


FINAL PICTURE ABOUT 
PLANETARY RELATIONSHIPS 


(For each lagna) 


Table 1 
Benefics | Malefics Remarks 
na ' 
(Friends) [Enemies Special Feat 
Aries Jupiter [Satum Moon jVenus lf Jupiter and 
Sun Venus Mars Satum combine, 
Mercury Jupiter loses Its 
beneficence 
Taurus Salum [Jupiter Sun Moon Mars Satum alone is 
Mercury |Venus Jupiter Venus |rejayoga giving 
Koon planet 
Gemini Venus Sun Mars Moon bulnat |if Salum and 
Jupiter strongly Jupiter combine 
as far Aries 


Venus Salum and Mars is the best 
Mercury other malefics |yogakareka 
Mercury z Mercury and Jupiter-Venus 


Venus Malefics combination 
does not 
produce rayyoga 


Mars and olher |Venus inspite of 
being maraka 
does not kill. 


Mars Jupiter Moon and 
Sun Mercury are raja 
yoga producers. 


Jupiter | pe and Jupiler does not 
95 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Moon 


Jupiter 
Sun Mars 


Maon olher melehes [become maraka 


FINAL PICTURE ABOUT PLANETARY... Astrology. Destiny and the Whee! of The 
Tabto 1 (contd.) 


Lagna Genefics| Malefics 
(Friends) | (Enemies) Special Feature 


Sagittarius | Mars Sun |Venus Saturn Venus [Venus Is the 
Mercury most trouble 
some planet 
Capricorn |Venus Moon Mars if illasso-]Venus is the best 
Mercury {Mars ciated and 
Jupiter matefics 


Aquarius }jVenus Moon Jupiter Moon =} Venus és the best 
Mars Mars 
Jupiter 
Pisces Moon Saturn Mercury |Mars unless bad, 
Mars is nota killer 


When Planets become Marakas 

Normally Sun and Moon do not become marakas. Other 
marakas If afilicted do kill. A maraka does not Ki In It own 
antardasha but that of another malefic or malefics. 


% 


CHAPTER XVII 


WHAT TO SEE FROM 
WHICH HOUSE 


Uttara Kalameltz of Kalidas gives as many as thirty or even forty 
events that can be seen from each house and each planet. But in 
Madhaya Parashari only the bare essentials have been mentloned 
which are useful memory tablets not to be missed at all. 


Lagna 
Personality, complexion, tongevity, fame, condition and 
material things atso. 


Second House 
Money, happiness, enfoyments, truth, conversational abllity, 
right eye. 


Third House 
Co-borns, valour, neck. appetite, ornaments, patrata-apatrata 
(worthiness as a recipient of knowledge, gifts etc). 


Fourth House 
Mother, vehicle, friends, royal happiness (parliament), arms (?) 


Fifth House 
Children, Intelligence, mantra, devotion to god, heart, matters 
pertaining to maternal side. 


Sixth Housa 
Enemles, strength, Illness, stomach, cousins. relations, 


97 


WHAT TO SEE FROM ‘WHICH HOUSE Astology, Destingand the Wiener tin 


Seventh House 
Sexual enjoyments, <fativa (crown), teeth, diseases pertaining 
to navel. 


Eighth House 
Secret organs, Iife-cdeath struggte. 


Ninth House 
fortunes,. pilgrimages. 


Tenth House 
Honour, Kingdom. karma, fare, business. 


Eleventh House 
Profits, eider braiher, ear, thighs, 


Twelfth House 
Expenditure, fathers maney, dispute and counter disputes, left 
eye. 


Watery Rashis 
Taurus, Libra (both of Venus) Capricorn and Aquarius (both of 
Saturn) and the well known watery rashis Cancer, Serapic, Pisces, 


Fiery and watery Planets 

(a) Sun, Mars and Saturn are fiery always, 

(b) Moon and Venus are watery always, 

fc} Jupiter and Mercury are fiery when they are (n Aries. Gemini. 
Leo. Virgo, Sagittarius (both rashls of Mercury and jupiter) 

{cl} fupleer and Mercury are watery when they ae In both rashls of 
Venus and both rashls oF Saturn and in Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces, 

Note t The brief principle here Its this part afte the finest 
condensation of those essential astrological principles which must be 
absorbed by a practitioner of Hindu astrology for success Jn 
predictions. 

Even though they arc well-known, we keep forgetting them af 
crucial occasions when giving predictions. 


uu 


be 
. Examination of each lord of rhe Birth horoscope. 

. Examination of each house of Navamsha horoscope, 

. Examination of each lord of Navamsha horoscope. 

« Combined examination of both - the Birth horoscope and 


ie WN 


10. 


CHECKLIST - 1! 
ASTROLOGICAL ANALYSIS 


fxamlnxtton of each house of the Birth horoscope. 


Navamsha horoscope through a joint and total look at the first 
four points. 

Examination of the Vimshottari dashasequence from birth to the 
Present day, marking out what could be notable periods for 
achievements or fallure, happiness or unhapp!ncss. 


. The present mahadasha and antardasha running and it 


promises. 


. I$ any antardasha or pratyantar dasha appearing to be significant 


or sinister? 


. Arc planers Whose dasha periods are running. Involved In yogas 


to be taken note of, rajayoga, dhana yoga, arishta yoga? 
What are the strength and weaknesses of the planets whose 
dasha Is current? 

Write Down Your Observaitfors: 


99 


CHECKLIST - D 
ANALYSIS OF PLANETS 


1, Examine the condition of each of the planets both In the Birth 
horoscope and Navamsha. 
2, Make a special note of planets exalted In the Birth horoscope 
getting debilitated Tn Navamsha. 
3. Keep nang similarly those which are weak In Birth horoscope 
but better in Navamsha. 
4. Mark the vargottama planets. 
5. Mark the retrograde planets. conjunct, aspecting some planets. 
or being aspected by some planets. 
6. Note planets which arc combust. 
7. Note planets Involved in & planetary war. 
8. Note Rahu-Ketu axis and association of benefics or malcfics with 
them. 
9, Note The durudhata of planets and houses i.«. planets on either 
slide of a house or a planet. 
1Q,. Note the lvendra position of planets mutually, 
NI. Note the trikona position of planets mutually. 
12, Note the two-twelve position of planets mutually, 
13, Note the six-elght position of planets mutually. 
14. Note the one-seven position, specially, 
15. Note the three-eleven position of planets. 
ExamIntation of kendras must be done. If there arc benefics, It 
1s good. lfmalcflcs. proceed carefully. 
Sec ifthere are majefics In the third, sixth and eleventh houses. 
But those howses {third, eleventh or sixth houses) should not be 
crowded, 
Examine aikonas similarly. 
Now an ever-alf assessment should be done according to 
classical principlo— 
Third house from Lagna and Mars, fourth house from Lagna and 


100 


Astulogy. Destiny and the ‘Whoet of = Tims ANALYSIS OF PLANETS 


Moon. Fifth house fram Lagna, Mloon and Jupiter. Seventh house 
from the Zagna. Moon and Venus (and the condition oF Venus). Eighth 
house from lagna and Saturn. Ninth house from Lagna and Moon. 
Ninth and tenth houses from Lagna and Sun (for father). Then 
examine the third house for the longevity of parent, 


1048 


CHECKLIST - Tit 
CLOSE ANALYSIS OF 
THE HOROSCOPE 


Lagna and Lagna lord 

!_ First examine the condition of the Lagna and the Lagna lord as 
closely as you can. 

(a) Is the Lagna lord Hi-placed, In the sixth,eighth or twelfth with 
matefics, with maraka (second or seventh lord) or aspected 
by maleic? 

(b) ts the Lagna lord with benefics or aspected by benefics? 

(c) Is the Lagna lord involved in raja, dhana or arista yogas? 

2, Naw not IF the Lagna lord ls conjunct or aspected (n kendra or 
tlkona houses with yogakarakas, with the fifth, ninth or tenth 
lords? (fyes, examine It further along the following UInes. 

(a) IF the Lagna lord has exchagned places with the tenth lord, 
examine how weak or strong It Is. 

(b) IF the Lagna lord Is Involved In an exchange with the ninth 
lord, examine how strong It Is. 

(c) Is the Lagna lord conjunct with the tenth lord Im Lagna or 
the tenth house? 

(d} Is the Lagna lord canjunct with the ninth ford In Lagna or 
the ninth house? 

(e) Is the Lagna lord involved in an exchange with fourth or the 
fifth lord? 


The Ninth House and the Ninth Lord 
t. Make the closet examination of the ninth house and the ninth 
lord on the lines as for the Lagna and Lagna lord. 
2. Examine also the ninth house and ninth lord from Moon 
similarly. 


iz 


Astrology, Gestny and (te \Wreel of Thar CLOSE ANALYSIS OF THE HDROSCOPE 


The Tenth Haute ena* the Tenth Lard 
|. Make the closest exanitaatian of the tenth house and tenth lord 
on the lines «% for dic Lagna and Lagna lord. 
2, Examine the tenth lord and tenth house from the Moon. 
3. Examine the tenth lord and the tenth house horn the Sun. 


Predominance of. BenefiRashis 
Count how tany planets are Inthe rashls of benefice planets, Ile 
Jupltet, Meteury, Moon and Venus (total seven houses). 


Prodan nance af MaleéficHouses 

Count how many planer are im the rash! of malefic planets, 
particularly Capricorn, Aquarius of Saturn; and Anes and Scorpio of 
Mars, 


Planets ta Leo 
See if planets are In Leo, which Is a house of royalty, 


Planets in Sagittarius 


See [fplanets are tn Sagittarius, which is the house of royal seal 
(the gazetted officer’s. stamp). 


103 


CHAPTER 1 
METHODS OF TIMING EVENTS 


II A question 1s put to a successful astrotoger “how do you 
thna¢: 11 event?” Bis answer Will be based on hls own experience 
and sueeess, So many techniques are available in Hindu astrology 
that one never knows whiclr will sult whom and when, 


For Instance 
{a} A very saintly police officer in &@ top position combines birth 
horoscope with Prashna (horary) and times the event with 
remarkable accurarcy. 
(b} A friend of mine uses Bhrigu's methods of progression and 
achieves good results. 
(c) Some people In narthern Indta use Varshaphala (annital 
horoscope) brilliantly for timing events. 
{qd} Some research-minded astrologers combine two dashas, say 
Vimshottari and jaimini to pinpoint the timing of an event. 
{e} Ashtakavarga is same people's favourite method of riming. 
{f} Some people use modified Virmstettar dasha. 
(g) Some people do western progressions and combine it wilh 
Vimshottari Dasha. 


My Method 

( have many methods, having tried and experimented with 
many and found aft of them giving results. But as I do net find 

enough sime, I have standardised a methodwhich fs as follows: 
{a} Pratyantar dasha (sub-sub period) - The mahadasha or the 
mat petiod-lord sets the overall general trend; the antardasha 
(sub-pertad)} lords set the specific trend; rhe pratyantar dasha 
lord {sub-sub period lord) translates the specific trend Into an 
event, f need not explain it here theoretically, | with Illustrate 1k. 
Mrs. Gandhi's’ children were born In the Rahu-Saturn and 


195 


METHOD OF TIMING EVENTS Astralogy, Destiny Ural Wa Wireg! of Tinta 


RahiueMercury. Mercury Is In her Sth house; hee son, Sanjay 
Gandhi, dled In the pratyantar dasha of Meteury. ta the 
antardasha of Venus and the ‘mahadasha of Saturn. 

{b) Double transit of Saturn and Juplter — Some astrologers have 
Attacked me and my leam-mates for using Saturn ta dme good 
events. 1 request them to fread Parashara properly, for the 
fructification of tafayogas and eveu foryoga-s!ddhl: Saturn gute 
juplter must be placed favourably tm transit, says Parashara. 
Extend thls prindple and use Ashtakavarga ro ensure more 
accuracy. Recently a prediction f gave to a Delhi boy failed In ihe 
sense that he did not get expected results. A team-mate of 
mine later discovered that ia Aquarius this boy's horoscope had 
only £ ? benefic points. 

Talking this hlat from Maharshl Parashara, 1 Invariably 5&& 
whether Saturn and Jupiter are well placed (h transit or not. ftls 
worth recalling that OF 8.4 Raman's great research about 
revolutionary changes in {indfla were based on Saturu being in 
Cancer and Jupiter if Pisces. This research of tls fadled to ftts 
remarkable prediction at least eight years fft advance of the 
Emergency of 19732 warned about the totalitarian tendendes 
im Indian democracy editorial ly, again many months before the 
emrgency of 1975 was Imposed. 


Exceptions to the Rule 
Both In locating an event and timing It, Some special point 
should not be missed. Some of these arc; 

{a) Debilitated Planets +: [| have referred in my article on 
Dr. Nagendra Singh (AM, January t9$4}, how debilitated lords 
of 3rd, 6th or 6th create a rajayoga. Extending this principle, | 
have found debilitated planets tn 3rd, 6th and 3th houses asto 
giving highly favourable results. 

{b) Rahu-Venus or Venus-Rahu period need very deep scrutiny. 
They can fife or destroy. 

ic) Changing of dashas are turning points In one's Ife. 

(a) Placement and exchange of planets add fickiness to a 
prediction. 


t. She was Pring Minister of tidia from t$66 tot 977 ane agelr from 198Glo 1934. 
2, Under the Indian consifutron anamergoncy conte jinpésed ifthe integrity of 
fhe nation is endengered. 


[ts 


* ' 
t A a bl Pe oat a a a 


A 
Astrology, Destiny and ihe Wheel of Rina METHOD. OF TIMING EVENTS 


Case Study : Accident of a Police Officer 

In this horoscope (Chart 43), the 4th lord (vehicles} has 
exchanged house wlth the 6th lord {accidents}. The 4th lord Is 
aspected by Mars (nilleating a violent accident. 


A we//‘knewn principle of astrology ts that fatality ts more in 
the antardasha of the 8th lord. 

This person was In the news In the earlier part of 1986 when he 
got Involved in a serious vehicular acddent. How he survived ts a 
miracle. 

He was running the mahadasha of |Jupiter(Retrograde}, the 6th 
lord and antardasha of Venus{R}, the 8th lord. 

1 had forewarned him thatjupiter-Venus-Venus’ would be very 
bad. His wife did Mrltunjaya eVantra and this gentleman has 
recovered sufficiently to Joln an Innocuous post. My reasons were: 

(a) Jupiter and Venus both are retrograde. 
(b} Transit Saturn was on Venus and Jupiter in the 4th house. 
(c} Rahu-Ketu were sitting in Lagna and the 7th house respectively. 


Case Study: Brother robbing brother 
Here also ! cannot reveal other details. The cldcr brother of this 
man is a friend of mine. | had predicted to him financial loss on rhe 
basis of hls horoscope. Later I got this horoscope (Chart 2} and the 
facts revealed were: : 
(a) He was dismissed by the bank which had employed him as he 
had embezzled some money. 
(b) The money belonged to his -own elder brother. 
The events took place in Rahu-Mercury-Ketu. Saturn and Ketu in 


3. Venus as tha lagna lord had to Involve his body. 
(a? 


1 1 § 7 + 
> 
METHOD OF TIMING’ EVENTS Astrolagy, Cestiny and tha Whoal of Time 


transit were in Libra and natal Ketu In the ffthhouse (elder 
brother) and Jupiter In Sagittarlus. 

In the first case, 1 had made the prediction. In the second case, 
I could se@ loss to the elder brother but could not arrive at the right 
prediction that the younger brother would cheat the eider brother 
out of hls bank account. | tried Drekkana and still failed. 

But | have had certain satisfaction in synchronising the event 
from both horoscopes. 


Case Study ; Promotion of Mr. A Krishna Rao 

Here let me reveal the name and full facts quoting Maharashl 
Parashara again that for Fructificatiom of yogas, Saturn and Jupiter 
have to be favourable. 

Mr. A Krishna Rao, a deeply spiritual man, was number three in 
top hierarchy of the Syndicate Bank in 1983. The Chairman of the 
Bank was said to be Involved in various cases of financial irregularities 
and with the post of the Chairman likely to go to Executive Director 


A Krishna Rao ]- 
Oct 20, 1926 


Sal. of Merc. 
oY0M-14D 


108 


} oo 
Astrology, Destiny and ina Viteal al Tia METHOD OF TIMING EVENTS 


Dashamsha 


Ven 


| cS ae 
Sun 


{No.2), would Mr. Krishna Rao, a low-profile banker, be preferred 
for the post of the Executive Director at all in a period when 
flamboyance and political patronage and convenience mattered so 
much, was being debated 

A second question too sprang from my answer to the first IF it 
was In the affirmative; the next Chairman would retire In the middle 
of 1984. Could Mr. Krishna Rao meve to the top position also? 

So the question was could Mr, Krishna Rao get two promotions 
In about eight months with his “inconyeniently dean image"? 

Now the Rahw-Juplter pratyantar dashas were: 


Jupiter upto.................... cee TDD. P9882 
Saturn Upton... cece eee eee ee 28.03.1983 
Mercury upto..........2........ 000, JO.07, 1983 
Retg UBtG: tne era eaeeet 20.09. 1983 
Venus upto.........................:008 14.02. [984 
SUN UDIDE iecesceiieniiicinnct< FW oe 
Moon upto......................:060200 10.06. [984 


§ » 


METHOD OF fIiMIN@ EVENTS Asbolagy, Dasuay ond tt’ Wwhanl of Tima 
Mars uptas. fae 30.07.1984 
Jlahu upto Pee ae wee. 9, 92,1984 


The First promotion In the case would have to be in Rahu 
jupliag-Venis. Out of the three debilitated planets twa had thet 
period’ running now, Let me refer here to my artlde on Dr. Nagendra 
SIngh With two debilitated planets (Moon In Scorpio and Jupiter In 
Capricorn) 

Before dealing with debilitated planets fet me refer to some 
generally less discussed aspectual rajayogas in this horoscope, 

(a} Jupiter In Saturn's house aspected by Saturn promises 
prosperity. 

{b} Venus In the house of Mercury aspected by Moon again 
promises prosper ry. 

(c) Mars in his own house aspected by Sun promises high position. 

Thus, here both Jupiter and Venus and antardasha lord and 
pratyantar dasha lord promise prosperity and In thls case, preferment 
and elevation. 

The mahadasha tard {%ahu) and pratyantar dasha lord (fuplter) 
are placed tn 6/8 positions, hence so many Obstacles + many 
rumours, so much gossip, 


Debiiitated Planets 
Though a good deal is being saict about debilitated planets 
now,* | had sald earlier and have had no occasion to change my 
opinion that debilitated 3rd and 6th fare (or 1 have found debilitated 
planets in 3rd andi Gth houses) give very good results, 
Here: 
fa} Debilitated 6ti\ iotd {upiter} aspectingLagna creats a fafayogea. 
(b) Debilitated Venus In the 3rd house, aspected by Moon. I& a 
rajayoga, 
Fulfilment 
(a) In-Becember (Rahu-juplter-Venus} Mr. Krishna Rao, as predicted 
by me, became the Executive Director of the Banks. im this case 
} had Insisted that the order would be Issued after Juplter 
transited into Sagittarius (December Z2).* Mr. Krishna Rao got 


4. Myrasearches wars lifted bodily by another writer without ever tafurring to my 
papars, This happoned ive years after fhad written shoutifio tola of debit{atact 
nlgrels, 

& Jupiterwoult aspectthe ta{hhouse tram his Lagnaand wouid bo tn thetaty 
fravie from Ms Moat. 


bg 


ASimiogy, Desluy alt the Wiel at line WY THOS OF TIMINGS EVENTS 


his promotion on December 22, [983. 

{b) The second prediction became slightly tickllshi. | had predicted 
thuit he would become Chairman also alier initial opposition 
which would last dil June 10. 1984 {Rhu fupltersMloan) as the 
Moon Isin the 6th house in the Dashariiis but Wauld finally get 
it. 

Mr. Krishna Rao became Acting Chairman ol ttim Syndicate Bank 
in February i984. 

On July 10, 1984 (In pratyantar dasha of Mur) Mt, Kristina Rag 
was appointed regular Chairman of the Syndicate Lank nil September 
4, 1986. 

Now In retirement, he is leading a beautllul sgtttual We and 
spends his tlme in God-contemplaitan, 


TECHNICAL ASTROLOGICAL POINTS 

I. Importance of Ashtakavara ; 1 have referred t& my failed 
prediction about a Delhi boy to whom [ had given predictlon 
that he would be selected for medical course but he was not 
selected that yeas, The transit of planets In the Ashtakavarga (of 
337 benefic points) was weak. But 1 insisted that the boy would 
make a medical career. Next yeai when rhe transit on the 
Ashtakavarga Improved, he was selected for as many as live 
medical colleges, He is now a full-fledged doctor. The lesson Is 
obvious. Predict transits Uwough the Ashtala-varga. 

2. Debilitated Planets ; A full-Redged research on debtlitated 
planets should be pracduced by a team of astrologers. However 
In thls case Jupiter is the ninth lord also aspecdng Venus, the 
fourth lord. A combination of the fourth and ninth lords, Isa Full 
rajayoga; if half as In chis case, It can be described an andha- 
tajayoga or half rajayoga. 


iid 


CHAPTER II 


NATURAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE 
PRATYANTAR DASHA LORD* 


Not as an excuse but as necessity, |} have to discuss first, to 
emphasise the importance of the pratyantar dasha tn one's 
horoscope, instances, without citing horoscopes, from my own iife 
and that of two Oriya disciples of a Baba. 


Begum Akhtar 

The late Begum AkKhtaf, as immortal Ghazal singer, figures 
prominently in my stories of wishes fulfilled. As boys in sub teens 
playing football In a ground adjacent to a three stereyed yellow 
building we used to hear the melodious voice of the great Akhtasi 
Bah Boys of the Queen's Angla-Sanslult School, Lucknow (now a 
college} knew about the legendary Akhtari Bai and her great mehfis* 
and some of us naturally had wondered and wished If we could ever 
attend one—the forbidden zone, socially tabooed by orthodox 
society, particularly orthodox Hindu society, 

Her sky rocketing fame and the number of the male admirers 
prepared to dle for her—we knew all that and wondered why a Sal? 
should be such a rage. Time, the teacher, removed the doubt—every 
female rage ls something of a Bal—anctent or modern type. | am of 
course not using Bal in the Maharashtlan sense of the term. 

t was then running the antardasha of Venus, associated with my 
{Oth lord but not the Tth house, 

The great Sardar Patel*, someone told me, had asked all India 
Radio. Immediately after Independence, to call those great singers 

* Syd-Sut-panod ford, 
1A semi-classical style in the Hindustani mista 
2 Atusical gatharngs. 
3.A term used far apubitc women 


fl2 


Aatrology, Geeuny aind the Wheel of Time NAT UAL SIGNIFICANCE OF. 


Oevis, not Bals and the great mwas queen, Htldtesshwan (known 
tn later years as Siddeshwar Devi). 

But Akhtari Bal had become Akhtari ttegum through proper 
marriage after which she gave up music. Thre sollect on, But her 
considerate husband had asked her nor at eat Mar great career 
abruptly. The ghazal queen staged a comeback, ijare Inypresslve and 
convincing, wth her voice as rich as ever and Iricitrr saneraus. 

Thirty years later, 1970 or tolind about that pseriaet, fwas Invited 
when posted In Rajkot, ta a reff to which € waul(t “ot have gone 
ms { was spending my evenings In the cainpany of Mahatma, 
Prablwudas Baba’, of Rakaciya Hanuman Moat. 

Buliiey site that Heguea Akbou wouhd filrt]) guide Pyveat and 
heard ten Hervole wats sweet, her ronda lewsensuous, more 
mature, the tembasslealdignity af her ghizits as authentic, sata the 
experts, as fr ever was. A wist) was Iu | tilled when was feast 
{ nieres(ed In sense-provoking ghazes, God must always have the 
last laugh. 

t was running the pratyantar dasha of Venus. 

Fifteen years later In ¥985 | heard in the ashram of a Baba strains 
of devotional Oxilss| musle. J had not heard anything more appealing, 
simple musical-emotional portrayal of a devotional theme and | 
asked them to sing Hindi Stafans and the Ranichatit Manas of 
Tulsidas® in Odiss? style, A young man, Baba's disciple, and two 
young women did the experiment superbly successfully, 

And { had told them that my musical Interlude would end 
abruptly as the pratyantar dasha of Venus in my horoscope would 
explrein December 1985. In January [986 | got my transfer ordet. 

All this narration 1s to emphasise tire point that the &atakatwa of 
a planet manifests itself fully in tts antatdastaand as a passing phase 
in pratyantar dasha. 

When | was running the pratyantar dasha, Ms. S.[\ (one of the 
two women disciples of Baba) was running the pratyantar dasha of 
Venus Inher |Oth house. No wonderon April 12, 1986 | presented 
her to the audience in the pratyantar of my 10d) lord, ac Kanpur on 
the same stage where Anoop lalota, acrowd puller, was the invited 
star-perFormer. The Moon and Venus were frher Oth frause on Apri 
f2, /986. Later Moon, her Lagna lord, mavedtinto (ts exaltation sign, 


4, Dopuly Pre Minisler of india 794 7-450), 
= “A flreof Saint. 
6 fyrejigious classicin Hindilaguage 


| 


NATURAL SIGNIFICANCE. OF Astrology, Deatiry ond the Whool of Time 


Ms. S.R. held Iher own before the crowd with three enthralling 
Likajans, She will have to be watched and encoutayed! was the 
opinion of many, for a great career thar await her as a bhajan » linger. 

As . fat as t was concerned, It. was a case of astiglapical 
planning—ihe pratyantar of the 7th ford. pref lSatum. or @ 
plinetin the 7th house Is the best period for ere? ore-enteing 
public fife. Ms. &.R. was running the pratyantar of Saturn, her 7th lord 
in the 7th house, 

More interesting were their reactions later when Ms. KR the 
elder sister, was seen playing tabla—the rare sight of a lady playing 
tabla; rhe connalsseurs, once thelr curlausity was wherted, watched 
her performed critically, the soft melody of her tabla merging 
harmontseuly with the singer's voice, neither dominating nor 
remaining suddued. Then they watched her more critically and 
discovered her class, the stamp of gharana'the Farukhabad @harana 
lessons learnt from Clan frakash Ghosh of Bengal and hi¢ Orlya 
disciple. SacchInand Kanunga, discovering In K.R. the rare gifts tao. 
She learned their gharana's graceful style of playing tabla: here the 
body and head remain motionless. Not before your eyes reach her 
elbosvs. will you notice any physical movement and become aware 
of her wrists In rythmic Gfcular mation and fingers producing wives 
of sounds through their soft silken touch, 

"Leave your hands behind", salad some artistes of Delhi's Alt 
India Radio Station, when they heard her playing later. 

“You are already an listed", the best lady tabla player of the 
country", sald Sharif Nizam, himself an sstadin the Delhi gharana of 
tabla-playing, when he heard her galying on October 18, 1986 ar the 
Golf Links house of Mrs. S.D. tn Belhl. 

Shy. retiring, K had blushed mat day, They had recognised her 
class—outside Orlssa of course. 

& was running the period of her 0th lord, Saturn antatdasha of 
Moon In her ft house and ihe pratyantar dasha of Venus aspecting 
her 10th house. When she had gone to attend the All-India Music 
Conference at Agra in September 1985 they had given her a fifteen 
minute programme for solo tabla playing, but when they saw the 
reticent Orlya girl exhibiting her rare glfts they requested her to go 
on for full forty five minufes and also asked her to act as one of the 
Judges In preference to the Bengali singer who had taken them from 


7. Aschoal of singing, 
8 Amaster. 


iis 


Asltttogy, Destay sind tha Wheal of Tims HATURAL SIGNIFICANCE OF_ 


Cuttack anci wrongly described as thelt guru. 

Ever since both sisters have had to face Jealousles from him, i's 
antardasha of Mars in her Sth house had ro reveal all thls... the 
pretender guru had ro Invent malicious stories against two simple 
Oriya girls of the age of his own children. 

Stage by stage | watched all thts tn the care of ilies sisters, the 
elder. K. the tabla-player In the undisputed elas of her awn, a neat 
usfad already and the younger §, with her tare Melodious base and 
emoation-RAlled singing- 

Bath sisters have Venus connected ritretly with theft 0th 
house. My werk beri with my i On tard tovivesmy dave of music 
ateronily, anly iweigdousnuicde, suauby people with morally dean 
Aver. Otinss 1, f olscavercct had A hatice taltittian of sweet devotional 
musk, which in my (layman's) {uigemeni, ts more appealing than 
that of other regions. 

Behind thls appearance oF K and S at Kanpur was Mr. D.N.D., 
Chairman of the British indla Corporation, running Venus-Sun-Venus 
during thts perlod. Venus in hts | Oth house under double malefic 
Influence has made hima pramoter of culture only. The Sun ks his 5th 
lord In which period he acted like a rather to two unknown Orlya 
artists. 


Summary 
The pointt om emphasising ts I 

(a) S was running the antardasha of Venus In her 10th house; 

{b) K was running the period of Moon In her t Oth house aspected 
by Venus and ran the pratyantar dasha of Venus when | 
discovered her for a Central Government function {n 
Bhubneshwar. 

Dising her Agra clebut she was running the pratyantar of her 

J Othlord. Saturn. 

(c) Mr. D.NLD. was running Venus-Sun-Venus. As explained Venus 
zs in his. 10th house and the Sun Is his 5th iord. 

(d} | was running Venus pratyantar; Venus Is assoclated with my 
1Oth lord and when | compered for S and K before the crowded 
audience at Kanpur | was running the pratyantar of my 3Oth lord 
associated with Venus. 

So far what | have shown is without horoscopes. Now 1 will 
illustrate whatever | have sald with rhe help of horoscopes oF two 
such persons on whom Gos} bestowed what has been the envy of 
many, 


ibs 


| 
3 
NATURAL SIGNIFICANCE OF. Astrology, Destiny and (ha Whaal of Time 
z 
Mr. LK. Jha ; 
Here’are some planets Inthe horoscopes of Mr. LK. Sha, ex- 
I.C.S."and now a member of Rajya Sabha,'© 2 
‘Sometimes In March or April 1985 before 1 was transferred. to 


Bhubneshwar he had asked me what J saw in hischart. Seeing that 
he would be starting the dasha of Saturn inhils 7th house 1 cautd see, 


Nov, 22, 1913 


as t have sald In the case of the pratyantar dasha of $, -Entering 
public life after entering Parliament". 

Mr. Jha was running jJupiter-Rahu then and at the time of 
election to seventh Rajya Sabha In 1986, he would be winning 
Jupliter-Rahu-Stuin. Mow my Ine of reasoning was : 

(a) Jupiter aspects the Oth house. 
(b} Rahu in the 4th house represents the Parliament, 
(c) The Sun as the { Oth lord promises conferment of royal favours. 

Mr. Jha entered t.«é rajya Sabha In April 1986. 


Transits 
fa) In 1986 Jupiter would be transiting his 4th house from Lagna 
and aspecting his natal Moon In Leo, 
(b) Saturn transiting in Scorpio would be on His natal Sun, his 10th 
ford, aspecting hls TOth house. 
No one need ask him whether he believed in astrology or not 
as 1 know very few men with so much intellectual dignity born of 
right intellectual attitude as Mr. fra. He would telephone and ask you 


ft, Tha tacianCivil Service, whichwas knownasacovenanted service during the 
British rule. 
10, The Upper House ofthe indian Partament, 


116 


Asology, Oostiny ond (hee Wiiorgt-gf True NAILIAAL SIGhIFICANGE QF 
when it would be curventnt to have an astiatoyleal consultation. 


Mr, R& Alexander 

Perhaps Mr, jha Ontmerely belleves In astrology but advises, | 
belleve, other to carvulé. ait astrologer, even If sstidlogers Fill with 
some prediletlouy, 

Such | jsuexs must have been the feellnsts of Mr. Jha on an 
evening in ihe second fortnicht In lanuary 1985 when Mr- Rajiv 
Gand, tye lume Minister of India, rasised «a by storm about the 
Invalvorignk af many bly persons Iman International spy ring.. Three 
of many mines mentioned were Mr I\C. Alexander, the then 
Suliielpat Seerétary.co the Prime Minister of Ittla, who resigned inst 
hon nably | Mr. MG. Sarin, LA.A.S., Secretary, Defence Production 
aiid. Mr. daljal, LA,S. of Orissa cadre who was expecting any day to 
lac: (94 QE NOted as a secretary and to whom Lhad given the prediction 
flit He would not be denied his promotion, He Is now Secretary, 
Planning. 

But this discussion Is about Mz. Alexander. 

While talking about other things { rolatMr. Jhathat twished | had 
the horsecope of Mr, Alexander to understand astrojogically why all 
that happend. 

That Is what § have brought for you", Sald Mi, Jha and passed 
on to me the birth details of Mr. Alexander. 

! made the horoscope and gave the following three predictions: 

{&} The spy-scandal will not affect his career, 

(b} He will ger a foreign assignment as an Ambassador or High- 
commisstaner. 

fe} A child of his will have an unorthodox marriage. 

Mr. Jha told Mr. Alexander about my predictions who, 1 was 
told, was Impressed by my dilrei prediction about a child! of his 
having an unorthodox marmage, as It was likely to take place any 
time- 

Mr. Alexander wanted to meec me, sald Mr. Jha and they came 
on the day convenient to all. Then Mr. Alexander sald that Mrs. 
Alexander wanted to meet me and she too came and after thai ! 
repeated the prediction, and, gavetne Umeas May 1985, 

The planets In Mr. Alexander’s horoscope arc- 

in May (985 Mr. Alexander would be running Mlars-Maon-Sun. 
My reasoning was = 

(a) Mats as 1 !#h lord cannot Iidleate end of a career, 
(b} The Moon, like Mars, !m its own house can help, not hinder his 


WT 


NATURAL SIGNIFIGANCE OF... Astrology. Destiny aid the Wheel of Tena 


“Mr, BC, 
Alexander 


Nov, 22,1913 


career. . 
(c) The Sun tn the 10th house has digbalald. 
{d) The exchange of the 3rd and 10th lords show how @ sub- 
ordinate became a source of damage to His career. 
Transits 
(a) Saturn tn transit in Scorpio aspects hls 10th lord Jupiter in Leo 

in May 1985. 

(6) Jupiter in transit In Capricorn, the 8th house from Lagna, casued 

Some trouble but Will aspect his natal Moon. 

In May 1985, Delhi newspapers carried a small néws-ltem about 
my transfer on promotion to Bhubneshwar. Mr, Alexandar 
telephoned me to congratulate me. “Well”, sald |, “a passenger who 
has moved up ima queue can expect to get a seat In the bus. This 
level one {1} promotion means only this”. 

“Still itis a promotion”, said Mr Alexander “My congratulatins. 
lam going, as ‘yeu ‘rightly predicted, as India’s High Commissioner 
to U.K. Your prediction and timing both came out correct. At a crudal 
time it was so morale-boasting.” 

He was preparing to present his credentials at the Buckingham 
Palace’ In the month of May (985 and | to see Lord Jagannath.“ 


17. Directional strength tha Sun and Mars in the 10th housa, the Moon and Venus in 
the 4th house : Jupiter and Mercury in the Lagna, end Satumi to the 7th house. 

12. As Indian High Commissioner in London. 

13,Bhubneshwarin the eastern india Is near the great pilgdmage, Pun whore lord is 
worshipped as Jagannath (ta ford ef ihe universe). 


mg 


Auwology, Dostiowand the wined ot Tian HATURAL SIGNIFIGANCE GF_ 


1. 


fh 


TECHNICAL ASTROLOGICAL POINTS 

Prabhu Das [aba y hy.8 separate book dealing with saints, fate 
and astrology, | wilh wille about Prabhu Ons tinba. Here I only 
wart to tell astrilogy lovers that like great Neem karol Baba. 
this Baba whom | hati come to know very intlmately, told me 
shoe dole rhalananChatsa of Tulsidas continues inly every day 

was noni -lot gatia-shand? (propitatlon of planets), “fa sat 
init (Math kar ke The who recites it seven thine not hundred 
ties} te, e-told me. only seven times, 

Hil was « great Hanvonin Shaktia an |sawliterally miracles 
rp is stfu which he of course attributed te Lord tlanurman, 
Vous atti Music =The significance of planets must be kepy In 
this titnd by astrologers. !n writing about astrology and 


-prychology It will be explained why the dasha running brings 


iiit@ expression certain tendencies most prominently. Venus 
tlie. lord of music. Close attention paid to Venus In different 
horoscopes will reveal why one is a performer and why men 
ike, me only lovers of music lovers and, not performers, 


; LK. Jha : Mr. [ha knew astrology and discussed it with me 


technically. He also knew that he had entered hls maraka 
(death) period In Saturn-Saturn period. He dled jn 1988 In 
Saturn-Saturn-Venus. See the principles given in section two of 
this book. For Scorpio Lagna Venus fs Killer. in thls horoscope 
Saturn in the seventh house has taken the role of a killer. From 
his Moon in Leo, Saturn ls again a killer. He was worried about 
Mrs, Jha who was suffering from cancer in $987. But he pre- 
deceased her. She dled soon after. 

In the original article 1 had only given some planets of tils 
hatoscop. Here the fuii horoscope has been given. 
P.C. Alexander : Here also the full planetary position has been 
given now, In /9B5 ithad appeared that Mr. Alexander's career 
had reached its terminal polnt, with disgrace. He went to U.K. 
as India's Hlgh Commissioner, came back to India and was the 
Governor of many states including Tamil Nadu. Then when he 
seemed ta have retired finally, his Rahu In the fifth house of 
dignity, brought him back again now, as Governor of 
Maharashtra In Rahu-Saturn {which ends on April 28 §993), 

Many classical rajayogas are present in this horoscape. Section 
two ofthis baok should be referred to here, At least six principles 
showing why this is an extraordinary horoscope can be seen In 
section iwo. 


ri? 


NATURAL SIGNIFICANCE OF... Astrotogy, Cestlny find the Whool ef Time 


Rahu’s is his seventh dasha. Mercury his Lagna lord Aspected 
by the seventh and the eighth lords from the Lagna {s Also eighth 
from hts Moon. Treat itas an astrological puzzle and solve it by 
referring to section two. 


120 


CHAPTER III 
BIRTH RECTIFICATION 


| Juiaw of doctors whe are beaten up when they rail fo save 
4 yratletit and they, knowing fully well, the abnormal feelings of the 
aapnuvect fantty. keep quite. In some cases the misbehaving 
teeiivicltuis apologise and In other case they spread sterles against 
iW a: doctor. Ingratitude manifests subtly in manifold Forms in human 
behaviour. 

But then | think that the astrologer suffers most when his 
prediction fails, 1 remember a heated scene at my place in 1979 
when a prediction { had made about rhe late Jag|ivan Ram’ failed 
badly because the horoscope given by someone, supposedly 
rectified’, turned out to be a fake one. Since then | have become 
cautious. As a rule, IF a person to whom / have given a successful 
prediction does not show courtesy of giving me the feedback. 1 
donot allow him to come the second time. Therefore when I go 
wrong, T want to know why I have gone wrong. Was the dasha 
balance wrong or was the horoscope itself wrong? 

It is because every conscientious astrologer must sometime or 
the other cvolve his own method of solving the inter-linked problems 
of correct birth-time and correct dasha-balance. 

Some of the methods adopted by astrologers to arrive at correct 
dasha balance, which Is necessary to atrive at correct pratyantar 
dasha, are worth examining. 


Nadl Rectification 

Correcting the birth-time according to the Naci-recfificadioan 
method may be the best, provided the method is learnt proerly and 
tested on hundreds of horoscopes. | have seen some very goad 
cases of such retlfication and have had an occasion to refer to 


1. Afomousindisa goliiogn, 


IRTH REG RICATION Aguntogy, Deetiny and {bo Wiad oF Time 


Mr. DV, Sabha Rao’s? method of rectification In my article on 
Mr NT. tama Rao (March 1984), the Chief Minister of Andhra 
Madests, 

liut ‘tn most of cases the rectified time according to nacth 
inmihods misled me Into wrong timings even If Fassume the birth 
ascendant to be correct, 


Western Method of Ractification 

1 am prepared to concede that the westerm method of 
tectification of birth-time may te dependable but | have yet to see 
a single Instance ofa successful prediction having been made on the 
basis of the western method of rectificatlon. No one who claimed to 
have done it successfully has given .any proof sound enough to make 
It acceptable. 

Sometime In 1978 1 saw many horoscopes “rectified” In this 
manner by the late Mr M,C faln*, about whom some people im Delhi 
had spoken often. Not knowing him ( went through the copies of the 
astrological journal he was produdng and took down the horscapes. 
1 found the following : 

{a} Mrs, Indira Gandhi's ascendant was fixed by It as Scorpio and 
he did make a successful prediction about her being on a 
winning trail in two years' time. ! had made the same prediction 
on the basis of Cancer ascendant and her powerful AShtakavarga 
particularly 36 benefic polnts in Virgo, | knew that Mr. Jain was 
palpably wrong here bur so long as the going Was good he 
could show hls successful’ prediction. Besides, Mrs. Gandhi, 1 
knew, was to run Saturn-Venus-Satuit. As her 7th lord Saturn 
was to bring her back into public Ife, by aspecting the 10th 
house, Saturn confirms It. 

(6) He changed the ascendant of Jagfivan Ram often. No haroscope: 
in my life gave meso much trouble as Mr. Ram's. Mr. Khand 
Rishi Bhatnagar {dled recently) a good friend of mine had 
Insisted that It was Capricorn and, both he and 5, failed on this 
basis In July £970. 

(c) Recently someone tmilet me that he had given Mr. Rajiv Gandhi 
Libra ascendant,* 


2 Aver gral asvoiger who died fuw poor ago, 
1 Anorthindian nstteoger, 
4, indie Pome Mister (1984-99). Died on Muy2i 1991 


Tt 
7 


« 


‘Aguology, Destiny urd {ho Wyoal of Tr GIRTH RECTIFICATION 


Nashta fatakam (Last Horoscop) 

The mewiacds given ly Yarahamilblea® for lost horoscopes on the 
basis of pi asl uit (binary) I tlie soundest, provided tre person 
concerned put (he qlitstlon In all sincertly—and that Is a very ble 
question. 

Out of teatly five | have fred so far my predictions have come 
to be correct Ikkonly Ge case and, | have failed |i Wieremaining four* 
| need not tfninhiUbe d{.2 point that my fallules Howedl from the 
Insincerity of wy friends who Wamted me to work on their lost 
NOMISCO] NO, , 

Thentellel explanations given about the method ot using this 
Valuable plete from Varahamihira satisfied none. J have not come 
actress any brilliant iistance, with a fully worked out example, 
shiawitig how accurately the sista fatakam method works, 
Vatahumthita cannot be wrong but weare cormiding some serious 
mistake samewhere. 


Siddhi or Supernormal Powers 

I have metsome people who on the basis of their super normal 
powers told the bisth-time correctly. One was in Ahmedabad in a 
temple. Hecharged ten rupees and worked out somediing on a slate 
and told Jt correctly to a minute. That was in 1972 and ] have not 
been able to trace him since. 

My own fate gurujl Swenml Paramanand Saraswatl helped me 
twice* Once when the daughter of Mt. Ral Hazan Da the was attached 
to Mr, R.N. Kao of RAW during emergency) Wanted her horoscope 
to be made and J did not know her birth Wme mij Gurujl fad asked 
me to adopt & particular Lagna. On that basis | had predicted the 
marriage of that girl while others, mat astrologers, thought thar she 
would never marry and would become a 4Sanyasin®. Mose dazzling 
WAS fy surujlairection to work on the basis of te fast Navamsha 
of Sagittarius for my nephew. On thls basis my predictlans came out 
correct in the neatest possible way. Ifthe had not been my nephew, 
t would have shown how brilliantly pratyantar dasha reveal family 
incidents, 

But many persons daiminge supernormal powers are 


SOneofihe word's oralas! asiroloyars wi rtVeU abouttwo thousand yaare oat 
fccoring todd. 8, Surnanorsyano Algo. thegrenofsiherofDOr. 8 V. Raman, the 
acuar of ite Astrological Magazme. 

6, Nun. 


16 


@IATH RECTIFICATION Astrology. Destiny and the Whoo! of Tima 


undepcndable, fraudulent and greedy. Py 


Shrigu Samhita . 

| have seen chaya shastris {those who by measuring the shadow, 
often, of feet, trace out one's horoscopes) do it successfully provided 
they have the horoscope in their collection. 

I'know of the extraordinary tmstance of Mr. Charan Singh, the 
former Prime Minister, getting hls whole horoscope from a Shrigu 
Samhita and then getting from astrologers guidance on that basis, 
making his political meves, whether one liked or not, to become the 
Chief Minister of LLP. and later, the Prime Minister of India* 


The Pranapada Method 

Like nad+rectification it should be the most dependable method 
of conecting the: birth-time where such correction ts perhaps not In 
many hours* I have not seen anyone succeeding with It personally 
but I have it, on the authority of late Moorkhanandjl, that In some 
village of Rajasthan there is an old astrologer who does It brilliantly* 
Swamiji had given me his own horoscope vith necessary dasha 
balance as given by that astrologer. 

| had the benefit of getting this horoscope and the great 
misfortune of making a very correct, from my point of vlew, but a 
very tragic prediction about Swamlji- 

1 referred to this great Swamiji in a different article and my 
team-mates In another article. When it came to explaining the secrets 
of sadhana (spiritual practices) and mantra-shaktl | do not know If I 
will ever meet another spiritual giant like hlm. 

Swamiji used to stay in the house of Mr* Bhartiya In Ghaziabad 
{near Delhi), Mr. Bhartlya looking after the business of the late 


Dec. 13, 1913 
around 10.00 


am. 


Astrology. Destiny nad thy Wiel of Time BIRTH RECTIFICATION 


Mr. Sitaram |alpuria used ta bifarm the Invariably whenever Swamij! 
came to Garlafiac, 

Treating Wilin Iwi over five years. a doctor had noticed 
improvement In ils physical condition so long he was being given 
the medidines (enced hy him. But during ane ot Swamijl’s long 
spelt of stay rtt falyuy when land Mr. Bhartiya had called! on him we 
round Swairilil elit given an ayurvedic bias which must have 
affected Wily hilyeys; Mr, Bhartiya was very angry and had sald that 
in the long fii Itwould prove harmful. Tlme proved Mr, Bhartiya 
tight. 

It. Muir el i/Apell 985 when Swamlli came ta Gizlaibad he had 
Mast [ils clesire lo Ifve totally as was obvious tom Ms rarubliing 
retrial, total détachment from everyttilna; as [t ls; so detached a 
petnoias Hewas, He has an epitome of spiritual love and affection, 
moneyless, houseless, fameless, guiding intellectual giants and 
ler AlNing anonymous, 

“This time It should be the termination of life's physical journey. 
Doctor give me an all terminating injection,” he had said and fhe 
doctor sald that It was against the eth3cs of his profesioon, 

He rarely talked about himself, I1!s past or significant events of 
his fe. Whatever could be picked up from snatches of conversation 
could be verified astralogtcally: 

(a) In 1921 when the dasha of Mars ended, the famlly migrated 

from Sasazam In Bihar to Varanash, 

{b) In 1939 he left his house and never went back. The mahadasha 

of his §2th iord Jupiter started then. 

(c) He was working in (he P&T Department and doing his sadhana 
secretly, One day lt had rained abnormally heavily and he could 
not go to the office and. next day, he t bought, It being the 
British tule, his service would be terminated for unauthorised 
absence. But tn the office no one had talked about ## and they 
sald (hat he was physically present, and was in time inspite of 
the heavyrain, If God is so kind, ifHe looks after his devotees 
so well, why continue in the fabwas the question that agitated 
his mind now and he resigned the job and became a scholar* 
wanderer. 
ln the entire period of Saturn he gave shape to many 
monumental project and the unfinished scholarly works of 
earller periods were published: - none in his name and !n no 
book was there any mention about him. 

(e) Since 1974 when the Mercury period starred he encouraged 


{d 


—_ 


Js 


GIRTH REGTICIGATION Astrology, Gestiny anc tte VWreal uf The 


(6 


(3) 


ashologers, sof written, a book giving the sétiets of 
predictlonscotirained It some Sfva-Sutras (a book publisted 
fiom-Kanpur and never-re-printed as none cared to work an 
that method of prashna astrology): ANarapat! fayachana’ with 
Its"chakras seemed ta have all the real secrets of mundane 
astrology according to him and, once Ina while, he gave me 
@azzling hint or two on the basis of which | made Incredibty 
brilliant predictions. 

Gradually Mercury, as 6th lord, became the cause of the 
ruination Ofhis health, in Metcury-Marts, a greedy Samyas! who 
wanted him tastay In lis ashram as he himselfcould not attract 
people, became his enemy. when he refused to oblige him. 
On this basis, 1 could see that his Mercury-Rahy starting form 
December 14, 1983 was the beginning of the end, 

Someone had asked me what | had to say asfrologically, | make 


no predictions about malistinas but ! have noticed that they are 
Inclined fo leave their bodfes, in the antardasha or pratyantar dasha 
of the #th or #2th lords. So 1 hazarded =) guess and sald Mercury- 
Rahu-Mercury, 


His fastructions 


To genuine and conscientious astrologers the |rstruct tons he 


gave from time to time may be Illurninating. 
They were: 


(a) 


(b) 


{c} 


Without the grace of Sura-8fhagwan(Sun God), secrets of 
astrology could not be unravelled; he asked usall to do a Sun/a 
Mantra and showed f to us, 

At some stage ot the other really true astrologer will feel the 

frotish nadis in Kis body opening out and then he need not 

depend on a horoscope to make predictions. 

We of course had maity experiences of hls supernormal faculties 

some of which | can discuss here : 

(I) The late Mr, Siiaram Jalpurla was talking light heartedly about 
propitiation of planets and“ how he could successfully ward 
off malefic Influence of planets, as and when he wanted, 
Swamiji told im that if after such propitiation one cid not 
improve one's conduct, planets would become destructive 
once again and bring thing to a logical conéfusfon-——andwhat 
ts such a logical conciusian—dgou know there is & fire in 


7. Anasiimogics! classic, 


Astrofopy, Destiny and tha Waesl of Time BIRTH REGTIFICATIGN 


your factory! 
A flustered Mr. Jaipuria made inquiries and found fttall correct. 

{ft} Sitaram Jaipuria had promised Swarmijl that he would create 

a trust to help needy authors publish thelr religious and as 
ttological books but he never bothered about the promise 
alter that. 

Swamiji who never touched money and had always allowed his 
knowledge to be wsecl’ by others, was visibly annoyed with 
Mr. jaipuria and fold him that promises sheuid not be made cheaply 
for phifanthapicpurposes before saints. |f made they should be 
fulfilled otherwise consequences could be... 

Mr, Sltaram jaipuria had then remarked humurously, “We danla 
will want to see even when we create such trusts how profitable they 
would be for us”. 

In Moon-Venus he was farced to move out of his palatial 


Mr, Sitaram 


Jaipuria 


house In Delhi and he stayed Ina hotel for sometime. Swamijl died 
In April 1985 and Mr. japurla one month later in the Moan-Venus- 
Saturn (May 28, 985}. Soon after hls death the biggest factory 
Swadeshi Palyfexhe had owned, was iast to the family. 

In April 1985 we had taken leave of Swamijl to take part in 
Rashmi Vigyan Conference on Astrology at Kanpur. Many well known 
astrologers had remarked that my ‘ream-mates had really prepared 
very well for the seminar and had presented their researches on 
emplrical-statistical basis. Some astrologers who wanted to speak 
from the stage, God knows why at all, without anything relevant to 
say (except that aspect of Mars an Venus creates sexual feelings) 
felt jealous and attacked two female participants of our team” 

But each one of our team had felt that the insplration given 


127 


BRTH REGTIrCATION Aatrotogy, Destiny and tie Vile Of Tune 
by Swamlj| and the Surya Mantra he had asked us lo do hat-glven 
(lie Inspiratfon needed* 

but -Swamiji did not wall for us. He had to be removed 16 a 
nursing. home. He died on April 14, 1985 in Room No/3, Halvetia 
Nursing:, /Hone, New Delhi, and continue listening to my story 
uleane... 

Sixteen years ago | suddenly noticed that my mother had 
tapped me on my back one morning and told me, “{know what 
this madness is. You have pot slept for ditee nights. Go and rest.” 

We had five days' holidays continously and | had worked on 
the Ashfakavarga lot full seventy two hours, non-stop. 

Towards the end of her (fc, my mother did not need a 
horoscope to predict. fitting into the description of a true 
astrologer given by Moarkhanandji she could foretell things, In 
May !983, I, Dr, Caroli and Dr. «,S. Singh |,A.S. of Bihar now 
Director General, Anthropological Survey of India, met.a terrible car 
accident when we were returning from YVrlnadavan. Dr, Caroli had 
been forewarned by someone with psychic powers: when we were 
involved In that accident Mrs. Singh had a terrible dream In her 
house at Pama and she tried to contact me in Delhi on phone; my 
mother just then told my younger brother and G.K. 5iukta that / 
was Involved Im an accident God had saved all three that night. 

1 have referred to my late mather {Smt Sarasvani Devi) 
because é/t was she who first taught me the method of events* 
based verification of horoscopes by working down at feast upfo 
antardasha: Swamiji asked us to work further upto soekshma and 
even prana which is why he wanted a trust to be founded to 
publish books on astrology. 

My article on Mrs. Margaret Alva (August 1983} 1s an exmple 
of events-based verification. In my subsequent afticies also this 
method has been shown many times. 

On this basis | had verified my mother's horoscope without 
telling her and ‘had written In my arti¢le, written much earlier (A.M., 
lanuary 1985) that soon / will be able to test a fatal combination 
on my own horoscope. 

My mother had told me how she would die :she would have 
a spiritual experience; then she would be unconscious for fifteen 
days and at 'the time ofher deari, only her youngest child would 
be near her. 

On the night of December !0, %984 she was removed to 
Halvetia Nursing Home, Room No. 3* My youngest brother was 


128 


Acbology, Destiny and the Whol of Neis #IRTH RECTIFICATION 


with her. I reached late, [wt tus to her promise, she breathed her 
last with youngest broiher neat’ her. 

And as | have (old you, on April 14, [985 Swamiji Was 
removed ro Raom Wo, J Of }talvetia Nursing Home where he too 
had breathed his fiah 

The say sen witaessed the end of the physical journey: of 
two grail sGulé oe sy Ilfe—bath, my astrological and divine 
Inspiration, 


FUCHNICAL ASTROLOGICAL POINTS 


Moorkhenand]! 

Moakhanand|l was the greatest mahatma 1 have ever r.et in 
way dfs wi Knew how and exactly which mantra would work in 
which guse®. See Afs fifth house and the fifth ford to understand how 
he fad potendsext so many mantras (which he used to describe as 
his caxperments witt mantras}. He gave ro some friends of mine 
KOM specific mantras to Overcome their troubles. There was 
hundred percent success iu all cases. 

He had not merely asked me to continue With my astrology 
sesearch but had sald In the presence of half of a dozen friends that 
{ would get assodared with an astrological Institution for Imparting 
knowledge of asttology to many thousands of students. By now | 
have crossed the one thousand mark already En our astrology 
dasses in the Bharatiya Vidya Shawan, New Delhi* 

Swam|i's real name as given by his suru was Vidyaranya {fount 
of knowledge) but he described himself as Moorkha (fool) because 
according to Hindu shastras (scriptures) a person who makes many 
resolutions tn Ilfe and does nro fulfill them ts a moorkhaf 

He always said that a true astrologer gets his fyotésh nadis 
within hls: body opened out towards the end of bls /fie. if was true 
In my mother's case who did not need a horoscope towards the 
end of her iife to make predictions, which she did, rarely, | have 
referred ro our accident on our way back from Vrindavan. 


Nashta fatakars 

It appears to me that no astrologer In India really knows how 
to do work on Nashra faikam or lost horoscopy when someone, 
who knows no details about his birth time, comes to us. 

We astrologers should learn lessons tm modesty instead at 
claiming to be masters of this great branch of human knowledge* 


12 


BiatH RECTIFIGATION tetralogy. Desioy aqd the Wheel of Ta 


Garbhandhan Lagna 

Givel-a cormect birth horoscope we do not know how-to 
Plepa(e rthe Garbhadhan Lagna (pre-natal herascopes). Some 
Aatrolgoers. have misled and fooled others by saving that the Moon 
Wit tha Roroscope should be weated as the Carbhadhan Lageia. 
There: I$ some scientific method involved In the calculation of the 
Garhhadhan Lagna. Should someone succeed In solving thts 
problem, we would be able to work very precisely on the ailments, 
diseases, rajayogas of the person concerned and, also predict 
correctly about the Ife and longevity of parents. 

Like so many dark areas of Hindu astrology we seem to have 
lost this great technique. In a book Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra 
another astrologer gave us example of Garbhachan Lane the time 
of WIS sexual union with his own wife! Other astrologers attacked 
him! He Tailed miserably to prove this point, 


Pandit Pathak 

t have referred ta my experience of meeting the person who 
with his supernormal powers could tell the birth time correctly. His 
name was Pathak, He is dead now* 


My Guruji 

My gurujl about whom J have been writing a long series In the 
Astrological Magazine, did help me sarmetimes with his 
supernormal powers finding out even the correct degrees of a 


Lagna in the case of lost horoscopy* He took his samadhi in (une 
1980, 


My Mother 

{ learnt from my mother, late Smr & Sarasvani Devi, her 
method of birth time rectificatiom on the basis of events, | have 
hundred percent success In this area so far, but | do not do it now 
as it takes at least three days Wark. 


Timing Death 

Refer to section ts “this book and see how In this horoscope 
the time of death fs exactly according to dasslcal principles of Hindu 
astrolagy. Moorkhanand]! died In Rahu {second house) antardasha 
In the mahadasha of Mercury who & the second lord Rom the 
Moon and If the the sevenlh house* 

Sitaram Jaipuria died In the; Moon mahadasha which Is a 


1344 


Sl 


Aali@ogy. Destiny and the Whe) of Time BIRTH RECTIFICATION 


maraka (see section two) for Aquarius Lagna and Venus antardasha 
which Is a matka from hl a Moon and. the pratyantar dasha of 
Saturn which Is asperted! by his Venus, which Is the maraka From 
Moon and also the twelfth lard (see section two). 


Birth Rectification methods 

1 had talsex$ these fssues concerning the birth rectification 
methods by my allicles In the Astrological Magazine in 1987. One 
book his come @ut recently on this subject which gives some 
method™*. They should be tried. 


ial 


CHAPTER IV 


USE OF DIVISIONAL 
HOROSCOPES 


Somewhere Sertrand Russet had spoken about how When 
samt people wanted to know how many teeth a horse had In Its 
mouth they had approached Aristotle who hac hazarded a guess, 
but, a rustic Titerate person had counted teeth in the mouth of 
many horse and, had arrived at an average, scientifteally and 
empirically. 

fn’ any verification of a principle of astrology the rigid scientific 
principle of empirical verification of such a principle must be done 
before It & used fruitfully as a tool of prediction. 

This verification Is done In two Ways: 


Extensive verification 
Take a principle and apply It extensively to & series of 
haroscopes to establish a research* For instance the fundamental 
research of my team-amtes on how Saturn and fuptter become 
Instrumental in marriages (June 1986} has been attacked in a Hindi 
astrological journal by a friend of mine with argument “gale nal 
utarta hai" {{t does not go down his throat how Saturn, a. malefic 
can be Instrumental in marriage). My fienct never took up handled 
horoscopes to verify the validity of thls research but applied one 
test + ‘gale nahl utarta hal’. 
|} have taken Saturn and Jupiter to establish how children 
cannot be born unless both have aspected befare, the birth of a 
child— 
fa) Fifth house or the fifth lord or; 
{b} The ninth house or the ninth lord; 
(c} Treating retrograde Saturn and Jupiter as glving results from 
the previous sign as well* 


132 


Aattology, Destiny art she Wheel of Tine USE OF DMSIONAL HOROSOOPES 


Then 1 extended 3% to the thiset house and third lord for the 
birth of brathems aie slntecs, 

Look at the near-infililbk: results you get from this. After this 
there was no oxewslaf for anyone to attack Saturn-fupiter 
becoming éistrumental it.imartiages. Bui still tt is been attacked 
in the most wusefeettic” manner. 

On the other hand many allies of astrology In the top elitist 
circle known to mé& have starred respecting me and my tsammates 
for offering scientific proof for the validity of astrological principles. 

The eritlelsm has caine from astrologer ar lovers of astrology 
who have been more anxious to express their opinions breezily 
than scientifically, ' 


Intensive Verification 
Given a horoscope and a dasha balance Wi@ horoscope must 

be subjected Inténslvely to, at least, two-fold verification” 

(aj Whether events of the past are properly reflectcd In the 
pratyantar dasha or not, 

(b) More tmportant and very difficult is to see whether the events 
of the past are reflected Tn different divisional horoscopes or 
nar, 

Now there have been two attacks Indlrectly on me far 
emphasising the use of divisional herastopes f am} a small man 
who for fils guidance tas to depend on Maharishi Parashara. These 
‘wise men* who found divisional horoscopes after ‘forty years’ 
experience, useless, have attacked not me but Parashara* Thijs is 
what another originator of a ‘paddhatiiad done when he attacked 
rishls and dismissed the Ashtakavarga as useless. 

It may not be possible for on astralager Ike me to understand 
Parashara in a I{lfe-time, Yet all the astounding results | have 
achieved are from Parashara and alt my failures are fram my lack of 
understanding of Parashara. 

Pratyantar dasha are to be made use because Parashara warns 
{t to be made use of. If one can, one should aa deeper into 
sooksimaand prana dasha because parashara has given It In his 
text* 


t. Some of thom am took-producieng mills. Astenographarcan become an astro 
in four pearstima andpubticisa himselfAdsmesad petty purchase officer can 
clatm tone infatible. They continueto cheat psopte fnsplig ofmiany teiisd 
prooletions. 


133 


USE OF DIVISIONAL HOROSCOPES Astrology, Dattiny and the Wheel of Time 


The key,to the timing ofan event in astrology is to synchronise 
pratyantar.dasha with transits. 

im case of Nehru? the events can be verified more easily as the 
histétleally documented events are good material for astrological 
rase arth, 

' Let'me Illustrate the same principles by giving the example of 
the,grandson of Pt. Nehru, Sanjay Gandhi* 

’ But before [ do that let me refer to an _ unnecessary 
controversy created by a letter-writer who had attacked me tor 
showing Capricorn ascendant of Sanlay Gandhi* The letter writer 
should have given what he thought was the ascendant of Sanjay 
Gandhi and explained, technically. why he sald, what he had said, 
SO breezily. 

| not merely worked on this but gave three predictions 
privately to people—and all of them were fulfilled* 1 also remember 
that the late Mr, Keshav Menen* had made a very good predidtion 
on the same basis, without referring to Sanjay Gandhi by name, 
about his arrest in one of the issues of 1976 of The Asirological 
Magazine. Now the horoscope of Sanlay, with the dasha-balance 
was passed on to me* 

Some events In the I[lfe of Sanjay Gandhi are referred to along 
with divisional horoscope to prove beth my points, Maharishl 
Parashara has given both pratyantar dasha and_ divisional 
horoscopes to be made use of and not to be dismissed as ‘useless’ 
after ‘forty years experience** 


Dec. 14 1846 
9:27 am 


Delhi 


2 Prima Minister of india (1947-64). 
3 A famous asinooger. 


134 


Astrology, Destiny and the Wheel of Time USE OF DIVISIONAL HOROSCOPES 


Nae Von 
dup 


Father's Death (September 1960) 
Sanjay was running Venus-Saturn-Saturn. 
tn the birth horoscope 
(aj Venus Is the lord of 7th from the Sun. 
(b} Saturn is 3rd lord from the Sun. The 3rd House represents the 
ayu of parents. 
(c) Saturn ts also placed in 9th from the Sun. 
ja Dwadashamsha 
(a) Venus is In the 7th house and 8th from the Sun, 
(b} Saturn is in the 2nd house. 
(<) Saturn Is also placed 3rd from the Sun. 


Brother's Marriage (February 26, J 968) 
Sanjay’s elder brother Rajiv was married In Sun-Moon-Venus. 
(a) The Sun ts in the I [th house (elder brother). 
{b} The Moon is in the Sun's house. 
{¢) Venus is the Sth lord. 7th from Ilith - the house of the 


135 


USE OF DIVISIONAL HOROSCOPES Astrology, Dastiny and Usa Wheel of Tine 


sam 
oc Dwadashamsha a 


Fish Sun 
* Moon 


L 
z Dashamasha = 


Mars 


Lap 
Mor 


marriage of the elder brother. 
In Drekkana 
(a) The Sun fs In the 7th house (marriage). 
{b) The Moon Is the lord of the 7th house. 
{c} Venus, a natural Darakaraka’ is aspected by 7th lord, Moon, 


Elections 
Sanjay Gandhi fought ele¢tiarss twice, the first time In March 

1977 when he was running Moon-Jupiter-Sun. 

Birth Horoscope 

(a) The Moon, the 7th lord Is in the 3th and after his ‘vasectomy’ 

reputation, had to appear In mass mind as Indian history's 
greatest kill-joy. Dull and stupid Intelligence of the executors of 
farnily planning, made what should have been beneficial for 
India, a nightmarish memory and Sanjay appearing Ike Delhi's 


4, Representing wife/fhusband. 


136 


Astrology, Destiny find Lno Whaok of Tithe USE OF DMISIONAL HOROSCOPES 


most dangetaun agent, 
(bE) Jupiter Is the 2th ford. 
(c) Sun is the 8th fail No Wonder he tost. 

] had «rade tts prediction privately to friends In Calcutta (my 
the then Accountant General Mr. RK. Ganguly 1.4.4.8. quotes It 
even now as a peatitkable prediction}. 

Dashamasha 
fa) The Mog) 1 wélliolaced aspecting 10th hause, 
{b> Jupiter [4 Aino well-placed but In 6th from the Moon and 

Aapectiel by Saturn from 12th house. 

{¢) The Sun, the {2th lord, tn the Sth house, {s aspected by the 
flth lord, 


Einetion of January (980 
This time of Sanjay was running Moon-Mercury-Rahu. 
flirin Horoscope 
fa} The Moon {s the 7th lord in the 8th house* 
{b} Mercury the 6th Tord (fight) In the 11th (gains) is aspecting the 
{Oth house from the Moon. 
{c) Rahu in the 5th house is tGth from the Moon and 7th from 
Mercury. 
Dashensha 
(ai The Moon aspects the 10th house. 
(b} Mercury* exalted, [s 10th from the Moon. 
(c} Rahu is In the 10th house, 7th from the Moon and 10th from 
Mercury, 
f had made this prediction too. He won. 


Death 
But Sanjay Gandhi did not live long. | had made a prediction 

About vehicular accident to him but falled to point out specifically 

death resulting from plane crash. Hls death occurred In Moon- 

Mercury-Saturn, 

Birth Heroscope 

{a} The Moon {s the 7th lord In 8th. Moon I Such a position can 
be an dipayu combination. 

(b) Mercury, the 6th lord, is with the lord of accidents, the 8th 
lord, and Ketu* 

(c) Saturn, a maraka In the 7th hause, Is retrograde and 15 
aspected by Mars, (the lard of vehicles from the 12th house 
who was responsible for Sanjay’s death? Three dear inferences 


{iF 


USE OF DIviSIGNAL HOROSCCFES Astrology, Destiny and ine Yall af Time 


are drawable—and we will leave it at that. 
Navamsha 
fa) The Moon Is 7th lord (n 7th ‘House. 
Ib) Mercury the 6th lord ts again aspected by the 8th lord. 
(c) Saturn, a maraka ls again aspected by Mars (lord of vehicles 
again). 


Conclusions 

(1) Those who seek magic formulae for predicitan In astrology live 
In a world of self-deception, 

(2) What Parashara has prescribed has to be followed intelligently. 

(3) Every horoscope must be verified properly, 

(4) Events-hased verfication is what suited me. 

(5) In my writing, } have given enough evidence of how t have 
been using Pratyanter dasha to Ume events | have given case 
studies of predictions made. in advance” Yet among many there 
are some In Delhi who after taking prediction from me, which 
when fulfilled, gave them maternal advantages, have accused 
me of not having made such prediction though the V\LP.s have 
asked to me to maintain a dignified silence** 


TECHNICAL ASTROLOGICAL POINTS 


Why is Astrology Under Constant Attack? 

There are tn the market many books on astrology In which no 
techniques are given explaining how actually a prediction Is given 
or was given. 

There 15 no book showing how exactly divisional horoscopes 
are to be used except Sheshad lyer's New Directions. But Sri lyer 
Was more Interested In his yogland avayogiptanets which Is hls 
brilliant contribution of the astrological researches of our time. 

Yet it {s Sheshadd lyer who stimulated the Interest of a whole 


& in 1969 anv astrologer heard front me that V.P. Singh could do wall intha gsner 
elections af Novambor tat year. Ha bad predicted tho desih of VR Singhin 
September 1889. But he changed hie predictionafler hearing my analysis. 

Simlady anatherastogergat from meboth ihe horoscope and Ure predietic 
eboul M. Xarunanidh! whobdacama the chief minister of Tami Nady in South India 
in 1969. That is the anly correct prediction no had mada in four years. 

This happens because those aslraigoars, one af.them aven an author of 
books on astrofapy. donot knaw Gow tovenfy # horoscope. 


13k 


Astrology, Oeelny end dhe Wheel at Tine USE Of DIVSIONAL HOROSCOPES 


generation of astrafagers la the use of divisional horoscape. | found 
his logic very sound but hls application rather hazy. Had he lived 
long he would surety, wilt (ts scientific mind, have produced very 
great researches. 

Tills piece ehrals with the need ‘for extensive and intensive: 
verification of haraséepies ‘before accepting them as correct. /Fwe 
astiagein five iurnt fingers many times by foundling Ito wrong 
Predictions iat political personalities it Is becuase we.do not 
verify chefr aon-politicat events before accepting tiiem as correct. 

Let me give the latest Instance of 1993. There was the usual 
hot gas) about Sharad Fawar becoming Indian Ii me Minister tn 
(90%, An Astrologer went to the extent of fixing the dale as 
lolornaty 22, 1993. He came to me and told me that he kad given 
Ulla purectiction. fasked him on what basis; and told him that In the 
Vistiive “Vilay Fanchange [Hindi) t had taken the same horoscope 
aint} predicted for Sharad Pawar thus : 

“Maharashita ke fyottshion ke anusar Viishehika Lagna 
Vall Sri Sharad Pawar ki Kundal! me cthatve ke Brihaspatf mein 
dwadesh ke Shukra ki antardasha chat rafil hat. Maharashtra 
.ke inke supt shatru hee inko pareshan! me dalenge." 

fAccerding to the astrologers of Maharashtra, Sharad 
Pawar is how passing through fupiter-Venus according to his 
Scorpio Lagna horoscope. Mis enemies of Maharashtra wilf 
create fot of fofuble for him} 

This ts at page thirty of the Panchanga where it/s clear at page 
thirty one that lt was writterr ar January 4. 19513, 

i had strong differences of opinion with rny friend-astrologers 
on this point. See section two and you will find thai Venus js a 
maraka for Scorpio Lagna. The word maraka should be used for 
politicians not as 2 killer but as being detiimental to their caréers. 

On March 5, ‘993 Sharad Pawar had to go back to 
Maharashtra as the chief Minister which for the time being has put 
him out of the race for the post of the Prime Mintster of [ndla. Then 
on March 30, 1993 the Autangabad bench of the Bombay High 
Court declared the elections of Yashwantrao gadak, member of the 
Lok Sabha, as null and void and named, according to tile Pioneer 
(March 31, {993} “Maharashtra Chief Minlter Sharad Pawar as 
being guilty of ‘cormupt practice’ under section $% of the 
Representation of People's Act”. 

1 have sald very dearly “according to astrologers of 
Maharashtra” because | did not, rather, could not verify the nor 


139 


USE OF DIVISIONAL HOROSCOPES Astiniogy, Destiny and tie Vétesl of Tima 


political events of the Ilfe of Sharad Pawar. Other astrologeis used 
the same horoscope. Why did they not see the results of juliet 
Venus period? Did They work on pratyantar dasha also which | 
cannot, do as 1 do not have the exact birth details of Sharad Pawar, 

Not using the pratyantar dosha and giving such a major 
prederfon! 

And then not to see ‘Venus as the maraka (not good for his 
career) Is to overlook dassical principles of Hindu astrology. {tte for 
thls reason that Section Two has been given before giving case 
studies in this section, 


Hlustrated Example 

How non-political events of a politician axe to be verified has 
been shown by taking up the horoscope of Sanjay Gandhi. 1} could 
have gone wrong still with my predictions. In that ¢cas# I would have 
taken the whole blame upon myself as In such a situation ] would 
have ‘elatrmed’ to have ‘verified' the horoscope of Sanjay Gandhi, 
But t succeeded and did not fail. § was obviously working on a 
correct horoscope, 


MO 


CHAPTER V 


IMPORTANCE OF 
PROPITIATION OF PLANETS 


Witte | was writing other amicies in this series | received a 
letter «nc the letter once again created the type of pafn in my hear 
which has always made me feel that | should give up astrology, 
And | would have given up astrology If my late Gurufi, Swami 
‘armmanada Sarawatf and later, Swaml Moorkhanandli had not 
ailiexl me to continue doing astrology and treat It as part of my 
Sidhana, With neither of them | discussed the difficulties an 
astrologer faces In hls consdetious pursuit of the excellent, the 
near-Infallble prediction out of the mass of details astrological data 
teveals—-and to choose the relevant and pleasant event with 
correct timing, every time. 

IFa question were to be asked why should !, or for that matter 
any astrologer, choose the pleasant every time. as if {5 not a 
pleasant story of pleasnt events only, my‘ answer Is brief, When 1 
was at Patna, fourteen years age'. someone known te me met me 
after a gap fo some months. he had looked so distraught, so 
cadaverous that day. “Well”, | opened the conversation* "seeing 
you after so many days”. 

“Huzur™, in typical Glhar style he had answered that day, 
"Vakeel ne dhan loot liya; doctor ne tan aur dhan loot tlya. Ab sisf 
man leke aya hun" (Tine lawyer has deprived me of my money, the 
doctor has deprived me of both money and health. I have come to 
you with only my feelings). 

Leaving siiff-necked snobs, unresponsive consultors and 
pseude intellectuals who know a smattering of astrology and want 
to ‘discuss’ their horoscopes, a large number of people who came 
to me, come with a sense of proper respect, in the hope of hearing 

1, 1972-75, 


IMPORTANCE OF -PROPITIATION OF... Astrology, Destiny and the Wheal of Fir 


something hopeful, astrofagicalty. 

Therefore before ! tell you the story of my paln, let me telf you 
that #F youdo not believe in right effort and prayer to Cod do not 
go to antastrologer who can turn you inte a fatalist. Right effort 
Includes recitation of the right.stotra as prescribed by the rishl/ 
Parashara depending upon the dasha you are running. Deep 
tragedies, as a result of such recitatlan, become Lighter, lighter 
tragedies will vanish, and you wilfdevelop enough fnaner strength 
to face the inevitable with equanimity, at any rate. 

Let me Illustrate with an actual prediction | gave on these lines 
and then tell you what Sr Shankaracharya of Kamakotl, Sri Jayendra 
SaraswatJ told me In October £986 here tn Delhi* Then 1 will tell you 
about the story of my pain. | am telling three stories connected by 
a common theme. 


God's Grace 

Oven here is the horoscope of “Y.S.' a U.P. Brahmin In dls 
thirties, an engineer by profession and posted in a station near 
Delhi. My youngest brother Is an uncle to him, they having met 
during one of my brother’s. posting. ¥.S. and his wife came to our 
place to call on unde Subhash. One day during the end 1983 he 
asked me to see his horoscope and give him predictions, which 1! 
did not do but, advised him to concentrate on right effort and 
worship. 

Some day rolled by and one night while doing some 
astrological research I was turning the pages of my register when 
all of a sudden the page on which his horoscope was noted opened 
ltself repeatedly. Strange curiosity slezed me and 1 started 
scrutinising the horoscope* Here Is the horescope: 


142 


Agliclogy, Destiny and (lit Wied? of din IMPORTANCE OF PROPITIATION OF... 


Next clay | told my yaungest brother Subhas and his wife 
Vijaylakshmi, “a5 seen as ES. comes make hitn sit down and do 
Mrtufajaya Mantra «inf ask both him and its Whe to do tt 
tegulatly”. 

in the every: where fe came, | myself sat down with him and 
his wife and made them do the mantra 108 itmes. There are 
twenty-seven Nakaiithis with each nakslitnts having four 
chara orpwhins {parts).and t know from my experience that a 
mantra ttone sinceny £08. times is efficacious and wards off, 
roulntriisend, eve wipes off malefic infuence of plants. iths what the 
greathdaatira prescribes and so do many Ilving saints and iftndia 
survives through alt the vicissitudes of her history it ts because 
cotitiieas prague doit always. 

Out one-day ¥S, asked me why instead of giving him any 
pues 1 1ons'| iadasked him to do Mrityunfaya Mantra se seriously, 
“Acting this to your daily worship will enhance the beauty of your 
dally pufa besides warding off or minimising Ilfe’s miseries. Your 
lnnine strength Will Increase”. 

ln the next few weeks when he met me he told me that he 
was doing it regularly and intensely* 

Again one day he asked why | had insisted on his doing thls 
mantra and { told htm that it was the tenet of my faith, based on 
actual experience that right efforts and right prayers alone ensure 
durable, but unspectaculer, success, Some misfortunes overtake us 
and we can surmount misfortuens. A very powerful mantra to 
overcome misfortunes Is Mrityunfaya Mantra. Why not add this to 
dally worship? 


February 3, [984 

‘Sometime after sunset on February 3. 1984 my sister In law told 
me that YS, had met with a serious accident and was [n All {nda 
Meédical Institute and that my younger brother was with him there. 

He was Inspecting the godown where bags of cement were 
stacked upto the celling of the godown. Suddenly something 
happened and two hundred bags fell on him who got Burled under 
them. In the panic that spread, others there In the godown 
thought, naturally, that he must have been crushed to death. They 
removed the bags one by one, found klm unconscious but 
breathing* Then, perhaps, tficy removerl him at once to the All 
India Medical Institute. This was the Information | had. 

After about an hour the message transmitted to me was thai 


Wi 


IMPORTANCE OF PROPITIATION OR- Astrology, Desilay and ine Wheel of Time 


he had ‘regained consctouness but was mumbling something Ike a 
frightened man who had faced death* just then came a dactar to 
whom | told about thls, He did not comment but kept silent for 
quite some: time til my younger ir other, Subhas, came and told us 
the Y.S. was conclous, had received only hairline fracture on his hip- 
bone arid, had uAnated, . After hearing that he had urinated the 
doctor remarked that he was safe now, 


fistrotogicat foresight 

As I have said, lt is purely the grace of Cod that on a night 
when ! was searching something for my astrological research the 
horoscope of Y,S. opened out Itself many times compelling me to 
see ft. What | saw was : 

(a) Me was running Juplter-Saturn-Moon to be followed by the 
pratyantar dasha of Mars. The Moon In the second house and 
Mars as the lord of the 7th could prove quite bad. Why? 

{b} Mars In the 5th hause with Satum who ts aspecting the 7th 
house Is In turn aspected by the 8th lord and Mars as 7th lord 
was conjoined by Saturn and aspected Juplter. The pratyantar 
dasha of Mars could prove dangerous as it aspected the 8th 
house also, like the Moon from the 2nd house. 

«<) Then come ro the transits and see that tn last months of 1983 
Saturn was In Libra aspecting the Bth house from the Lagna 
and 7th house from the Moon* 


Sri Shankaracharya 

Now about the effects of mantras I have had Illuminating 
discussions with many mahatmas. On October 9, 1986 | have had 
such a discussion with His Holiness Sri Jayendra Saraswati, 
Shankaracharya of Xanchl who had sent word'to me from Allahabad 
that during Ms Delhi visit [| could fave an exduslve meeting with hirn. 
1 was very grateful and happy as it all earme as a result of predictions 
given from time to time thus: 

(a) To one of Swamiji's most ardent devotees [ had given 
prediction about his career. As 1 write this March 23, 1987 the 
latest prediction given ta him too has been fulfilled but with 
my timing going wrong by about three months. Here \ dearly 
failed to synthestse tranist of planets with the pratyantar 
dasha. = will call thls gentleman ‘A’. 

(b} Mr ‘A’ brought a saintly looking middle aged person to me 
one day who later: | discovered* was generally Jn charge of 


i4 


Aditology, Destiny oad (na Véhoad of Time IMPORTANCE OF PROPITIATION OF... 
arranging the derails of Swamijl’s padayatry’, Looking at his 
horoscope [| had predicted that for some months it would be 
difficult for tilt, as fotof inconvenience would be there, on the 
way. This prediction was given sometime In 1984. 

In 1986 when Mr* *B* met me he told me that the difficulties 
a Thad predicted had to be faced by the entire party travelling 
with Sri Shankaracharya. 

Then he showed me a horoscope, told me It was of His 
Holiness. $ told hlm 1 do not give prediction ta Mahatmas but on 
the Inststence of Mr. ‘B' 4 had to make some observations, 
prediction etc* | told the following: 

(a) lf Samijl does not move during this period It would be very 
good as lt was time for him to waite a magnificent boot' Mr 
*B’ was pleased and surprised and told me that Swamijl was 
doing exactly that these days and, his padayatras did net 
effect his dalby schedule of writing. 

tb) Swamiji should not visit Punjab as tt would put him to lot of 
difficulties and Punjab would be marté violent. 

On October 9rh His Holiness granted me an exclusive darshan 
In Delhi, We had gone with nearly ten persons accompanying, who, 
after Swamili’s darshan felt me alone with him. Swami! gave me an 
angavastram? made of non-violent silk and a garland of kamal? 
beads in token of appreciation of .. | was moved and thanked Cod 
for my good luck. ; 

Of interest to astrologers should be some, out of the many 
observations, made by His Holiness during my falfan hour 
discussion with hin. 

(a) “Ayu"" | sald, was the most diffiault area of astrology"* He sald 
"Yes. to get deep astrological proficlency more than one hour's 
meditztion should be done everyday* Still ayu would 
sometimes go wrong”. And without explaining he laughed his 
silvery laughter, 

{b} He asked me what | saw happening ... mundane astralos, ... 
1 told him ... He approved it... He added.something ... charifled 
“~ well, walt... watch. 

(c) Stot redtatlon, mantra Japam and particularly the Vishnu 


1, Walking on feet, 

2 Clothwom on tha uppetpar afthe body. 
3 Lotus 

4. Spars of liks, 


{43 


IMPORTANCE QF PROPITIATION OF Asnotogy. Destiy arid the Wtymb of Tina 


Sabasttanama | prescribed was the very best he sald with SO 
inva: corviciian t lat | was over-joyert. 


td} He had completed the book about which } had mite .a 


predictian* 


(o} He wanted to go to Punjab Ignoring my prediction bur fils 


Parama Gur’ sent word to him not to go further northward, 
{ had many other things to ask but had asked him politely, 


“when do you fest after such a tiring day?" 


"| will rest after you leave", he told me. laughing. 4 took 


permission © leave and he blessed me. 


Having narrated my experience with His Holiness let me come. 


to the Jasr part of my story, the pain astrology causes. Well, it ts 
because! 


(a) 


(b) 


When an astrologer’s predictions go wrong no One excuses 
him, “Sure death" doctors {agents of Lord Yatnaj do not have 
to suffer «ven a fraction of the humiliation astrologers suffer. 
Some people tell you that you had not forewared them about 
something, The duty ofan astrologér Is over when he answers 
the question put to firm f£ have scolded many educated 
persons &nd warned them not to atcdpet the claim of some 
astrologers that they “se@~ everything at a glance. 
Saturated experience, inspiration to do astrology brilliantly and 
Intuition have, in the fife of an astrologer, their ebbs and tides, 
daily. An astrologer i& not a gramophone record oF a pre- 
recorded cassette of music ofyour past* present, future ready 
to ree} off what you want to hear {and do not want to hear) as 
soon as you show himyour horoscape. 

Against this background see the letter of a very devout father 


who lost his doctor-son, married to a lady doctor* The father had 
shown the horoscope to many astrologers none of whom had 
foretold about ihe short span ofthe life of hls son, He got my address 


and 


wrote to me. 
“I lost my eldest son all of a sudden. He was M.B.B.S., D.CH 


“™ He dleck of cerebal haemorrhage when he went to take a bath 
on January 4. (987. No astrologer, though [ have consulted many, 
had ever ipdicatec such a short Ife, And |Fl had known | would nat 
have allowéd him io marry ..." 


The grief-striken father is a believer In God and astrology. My 


answer therefore IS that God did not Impel any astOloger to “See" 


4 His guru whois nowi®iyesrs old 


144 


Astriogy. Destiny and the Wheel of Tha IMPORTANCE OF PROPITIATION 2F,;. 


what should have been seen, as he did In the case of Yogesh 
Sharma. | as an astrologer know how a prediction Is missed. 

No astrologer can foretell what God does not want to be 
revealed. Otherwise Lord Krishna would have shown Arjuna (Gita, 
Chapter 11> his own dead son, Abhimanyu, In the long procession 
of dead men Arjuna was shown, even before an arrow was shot In 
the great battle of Kurukshetra.® 

Wiser after the event, see the horoscope and note two points* 

{a) It ls an alpayu (short life) horoscope. 
(b) Venus-Saturn-Venus period had to prove fatal* 

There are other features of fatality. 

Any astrologer could have misséd it. Some astrologers could 
have pointed It out. Two reasons why prediction are missed : 

(a) Astrologer's incompetence. 
{b) Consultor's lack of humility and frankness, 

And above these two ... the wilf of the Lord. 


TECHNICLA ASTROLOGICAL ‘POINTS 


What is Graha-Shand or Propitiation of Planets? 
1. Each astrologer has his own answer to the question as to 
what actually Is grana-shanti (propitiation of planets). 
2. | have twea-fold answer to this question. Astrologiecally it can 


& tn the graal Indian apie, the Mahabharata, Asunz tha great warrior expresses his 
grief-mixed refuctancelo Kill his own kith and kin. Then Land Krishna opens his 
mouth after revealing his Oiine form.Arjune sees e procession of dead persons, 
even before thewer had bagua,/t was o)lpre-destined Bul Aquna yas nol shown 
Abhimanyu, his ownson, who was also killedén the battle. 


WW? 


IMPORTANCE OF PROPITIATION OF _. Agyalogy. O2stny and the Wiival of Tima 


apg 


x 


be seen, wheilice any remedial measure wil! work at all in a 
particular case or not, Where it ls not going to work, fl Is the 
moral duty of an astrologer to help the consultor gel back his 
lost sel-confidance. Tills can be done not through any bluff 
but by preparing the consufter to accept st, ‘es of destiny as 
the most essential <discinilne of Wfe. hk then sounds I!ke 
preaching. To avoid preaching and then convince the consultor 
why he must accept destiny as Inevitable In some case- 

By taking tis tine thave created controversies and enemies. 
tf che cansultor is a genuine devotee, as Itis, In the case of Y.S. 
the best remedy Is to ask him to worship inore Intensly. 

ff God cannot.save whia else can or will? 

Those who prescribe stones (jewels) themselves do not know 
how and when it works. They have some links with some 
jewellers who give them sqme commission for the sales they 
make through astrology, This Is not astrology but a business 
tacket, well-known, 

Yanttas, can work provided they are made by a pure 
worshipper on astrologically auspidous days, through proper 
prescribed and, scriptural (sheseic) way. 

Such people who can tmake proper yantras are rarest 
mahatmas. Astrologers do not even know the secrets of yeitra- 
making. Butfor whatever they manufacture they have a ready 
market! 

Maharsh} Parashara (we all do astrology of Parashara but do 
not prescribe remedies according to Parashara!} referes only to 
recitation of mantras and daan {charlites), But }¢ will ‘not sult 
mercenary astrologers to prescribe strictly what Parashara says 
as, It would be unprofitable, commercially. 

Counselling being done by good psychologists works some 
times, ff this too does not became mercenary profession. An 
astrologer with a good backereund of psychology can ‘make a 
very effective use of that knowledge and do the best 
counselling th the world. 

/ wht show that in a separate book en Astrology and 
Psychology which will be based on actual astro- psychological 
studies. 


CHAPTER VI 
LOVE-MAKING PERIODS 


I do remember and | am not boasting, Those days when 1 
played cricket In ‘thlid class’ matches with no great talent, ! was 
never dean bowled.1 was caught in slips or mld-wicker. | was never 
run our! could run very fast and never had fear of being taken by 
surprise by an inconveniently agile Azharuddip or mercurial 
Srikant. ‘ 

But in astrafagy tt is not so. [ am stressing the Importance of 
pratyantar dasha of course bur then | am also telling you : 

fa) | could not read the 'gaogly" in the horoscope being seen by 
me and was beaten without being bolwed. The spin’ being 
from the off-sid@ when I thought ft would turn from the !eg. 

{b) Yet | could locate the pratyantar dasha in which the ‘odd’ 
event took place, 

Now see the horoscope (Chart 1), 

A lean young man with a boyish face. He reminds me of 
Azbaruddin. The ‘event’ located finally reminded me ofa Pakistani 
cricketer whoa had stealthily entered the room of a very famous 
actress and, when chased by some toughs, had jumped from the 
balcony, broken hls arms to lose both, his fady love and cricket 
career. 

Let me call this young man “S”. 


Transits 
When he met me, Mars was in Virgo aspecting rhe Moon It 
his. 7th howse and Saturn was in Libra. Now my question was + 


1, The gana of oricketis te legacy of ihe British nth, Aztraruddit fs the captain of 
the Indianenckel eam Snkont fs o iriliant encketer. 

2A babowleddeargively turns from the af-sitethough ihe bowling action is fcf 
logy-8 PIA. 


149 


LOVE-MAKING PERIODS Astrology, Destiny and fro Wheel Of Time 


wey fate] 

Moon 

pe 
Navamsha 


Sal 


2 
Rah 
Sun Moon / 


(a) Mars bls: 6th lord a violent planet aspecting the Moon In his 
7th house could Indicate a violent event in martled life, and if 
not mamed, [In a love affair. 

(b} Saturn, the 8th lord, aspecting 7th house and the Moon, 
could Indicate separation, if mamied, or breaking off a love 
affair. 


Horoscope 
To ammfve at this i had analysed his horoscope and came to the 

following conclusions* 

The dasha Periods 

(a) He was passing through the dasha of Venus his 5th lord, 
aspecting the 7th house from the Lagna. He looked young 
enough to make me feel that hls hormones were virile and 


2 A famous women athiete of India. 
4. The queen in this pfay gats her lover trampled by an elephant 


150 


Agtrofeoy, Oedury and tha ‘Aiiaat al Tre L OVEHACHING PERIODS 


Venus, the faved, was in ‘Tull bloom’ im the rishi of 
Mercury for love-making—not mariage perhaps. 
(b} The Moon, tepresenting: mind was It the 7th house aspected 
by Venus, 4 natural ¥ex-st/mulator 
{<} But Moni-Venus opposition along 1/7 ais, is stressed by a 
writer and “ls mentioned in some Aadi-baoks, ls notgood for 
marriage* | have found this correct in many eases. May be it 
Is not good for iove-affalrs, I guess, extending thls principle. 
fvlars aspecting the Moon In the 7th house gave me two keys 
to the right prediction—his love—affalis were more than one 
and the present love-affair was taking a violent turn” 
The young man reacted very intelligently and sald that what { 
had sald was correct bit—and what he told me showed how a 
‘googly’ | fale to read spun from the wrong side. 


(d 


fe 


The tneident 

The young man fell in tove. Those who fall i111 love eo not get 
hurt physically, love not being a physical fll, but an -emotional 
involvement which may lead one Into, God knows, how many 
poignant situations. 

Nov the yaung woman fie was chasing fad more proteins and 
vitamins In her body than Is perhaps good {et a git, whom we would 
still want ro appear Uke a delicate damsel even tn the era of 
PT. Usha! 

While tus chased her, she spurned his advances and applied for 
Jobs everywhere. She at last landed in 2 Job, which the young man 
least expected-the job of a pollcewaman. Undeterred the young 
man continued ta chase her, she continued to spurn his advances, 
now with filghtening frown. Then one day she got him ‘arrested’. 
He was In the police lock-ujs for some hours where he was beaten 
with police batons Which remitted me of Webster's play. the 
Dutchess of Mulf* 

Mars 

After hearing iis story, | cancentrared on Mars in his horoscope’ 
As 6th lord aspecting the 7th house, beating is well-explained. 
Navemsha 

The Navamsha corroborates thls analysis. Here Venus, the 6th 
lord* 1s In the 7th again aspected by Mars* here:the 5 th ford, the 
lover, 

Pretyantar dosha 
"When do you think If happened?” The young man asked me* 


43 


LOVEMAKING PERIQOS Asitategy, QGusliny and ihe Wreal of Tn 


“In Venus-Mercury-Saturi”. 1 explained and | was tight. Saturn 
the Bt ldid here ts the spell-sport. 

Mare than half pleased wit me, the young man asked me the 
last question, “Tell me will } be the husband of a policewoman?* 

At_ that moment | must have been the most nervous and 
confused man in the world. ! had looked at the celling of my room 
to get back my dulled powers of analysis and then sald, “Well, Mars 
tn your 4th house Is JOth from the 7th house: 1 do not know. But 
may be that means that the profession ofyour wife will be a police 
fob.” 

In locating the pratyantar dasha my logic was ? 

to) Venus the 12th lord represents fall aise. 
{Bb} Mercury rhe antardasha lord, 15 owner of the 4th house 

(home) Im the 3nf representing movement. 

{e} Saturn the 8th lord ts in charge of unhappiness. 
fd¥ Venus-Mercury-Saturn are {-3-8 from the Lagna and Venus. 

Out | realised the limitations of my astrological ability. ldo not 
know how to tell a young man whether Ik: would be the husband of 
a policewoman, 

This case of the young man shows how many modern 
complex problems can be tackled by astrofogers by applying 
classical principles but in non-conventional mariner. Lack of 
boldness of astrologers may not help us ro extend de frontiers of 
astrological predictions to modern man, a complex amalgam of 
contradictions, 

Yet classical prindples cannot be-ignored, Let me give the 
horoscope of Mrs. Indira Gandhi to Mlustrate it, 

F am strletly of the opinion that no one who falls to 
understand the wisdom and prindples given in, what # consider, rhe 
greatest book on predictive astrology In the world, the Brihat 
Parashara Hors Shastra’, can ever be a sound astrologer* But 
disaster is the only result if they are taken as dogmatic conclusions 
and. greater disaster, Is the result [f these prindples are not 
Interpreted according to ene’s’ awn experlence. Let me quote an 
Instance, Now Parashara Says; 

(a) If the seventh lord ts debltitatect. and 
{i} IF Venus Is placed It the 6rh or the !2th house, the wife dies 
in‘the 18th or the 33rd year of the marage. 

Now do not apply all these cules dogmatically but take two 


4 Nogoed transiationas ina bookis available in English, 


152 


Aarology, Destiny ani tie Whirl of Tims LOVEMAKING PERIONS 


orldlples, a lebliltatecl 7th lord Js no good and an Mil placed Venus 
is worse. 

in many places Parashara speaks about malelle effects of 
malefic planets. Add that here and modify, both In the birth 
horoscope and the Navaiwsi4 and the results “¢ stunning- 

Let me Itlustarate it with the horoscope’of Mrs. Indira Gandhi. 
In her foerescape 

fa) Her 7th lord Is no: cebititated. 

(b) But her Venus, with Rahu (quite bad) Is Im the 6th house. 

(c} In the Navamsha Saturn is w3th Ketu while the Navamsha 7th 
lard is In the 8th with Venus but aspected by Saturn. 

(d) Mars Is in her second Rouse. bad for the longevity of her 
husband. 

Then comes the funniest objection. Here Parashara uses the 
word “Dara” which means wile. How could fers. Indirla Gandhi's 
horoscope be choasen as an example? Well, my answer is ‘Dara’ 
must be interpreted as spouse and, the results modified, if there 
are benefic aspects even If such conditions are fulfilled, But that 
around the years Indtcated, such an event can occur, Tnust be kept 
in the mind. 

in the case of Mrs, Gandhi sine was married In 1942 ane, her 
husband diject In 1960, exactly the 18th year of her marriage* How 
correctly thls applies here? In other cases lt does apply but svith the 
modifications suggested, 


TECHNICAL ASTROLOGICAL POINTS 


Profession 

Very extensive and deep researches In profession las to be 
done by astrologers. A team of researchers In Oelht has made good 
progress fn thls direction. 


Husband or wife's Profession 

There are some methods of predicing the husband's 
profession from girt’s horoscope which sometimes comes out very 
correct. 

But It goes wien lecuase astrological research In professional 
pattern itself ts nat sound enough yet. 


Wife-Beating Combinations 
There are well-known whlfe-beatlhig combinations, known to 


£53 


LOVE-MAKING PERIODS Asiology, Destiny and tha Whont af Time 


astrologers but not discussed In astrological texts. In the case of 
husband beating, it would apply to a woman's horoscope, 


Period: of Widowhood 

from Maharshi ?arashara’s &rnihat Parashara Hara Shastra an 
exmple has been shown -explaining the widowhood of Indira 
Gandhi. These combinations, Im the newer sola! context, have 
come to mean not the death of the husband but divorce, In the 
case of many western women Il have seen such coembinatlens (n 
their horoscopes. They were not widow but divorcees. 

Flexible application of the old texts have to be done now in the 
fast changing sotio-economic fife of ours. 


hss 


CHAPTER VII 
TIMING MARRIAGE 


Yes, now the heat of Delhi summer (% lust receding but the 
heat of politics continues to be oppresstve. There is cynicism In the 
sodety here where they plan thelr lives around the opportunistic 
chances visible, 

Sip a glass or avo for old time's sake. That which is eternal In 
old world values will get revived, at any mate, the eternal that has 
the capacity to 1tenew ItselFls the Sanatarte. 

So let me tell yeula story which gave me as much happiness, 
a story of divinity* When | am talking of the story you are perhaps 
Imagining that | am going to nétrate a story from the Mahaltiarats 
or Puranas. No f ani in the inconvenient habit of narrating true 
stories lifted from the Chapter of Life of persons, vibrant with ilfe, 
and meeting me every now and then. And 1 am not doing 
postmortem. | am giving case-studles of predictions given In 
advance. 

I have talked of the Sanarana—have | por? God has His own 
way of showering grace and that is a Sanatana rule, Let me tell you 
two stones and explain them astretegically through the use of 
maha, antar and pratyantar dasha of Vimshottar] dasha in Hindu 
astrology, the best method of Uming events, 

Mr. fagdtsh joshi, former IMLP of the fcalya Sabha from M.P, 
came and told me on the morning of April 2, 1987 tag what had 
looked like a hopeless prediction of mine was fulfilfed... 

Now before you hear rhe stary. see the horoscope (Char 1), 


Background 
Now let me first give you some background to tne story. 
Many decades ago a divine looking fady in a white sari had 
been received at Lucknaw railway station by a group of petsons of 
both sexes and | was among the small crowd of children then 


135 


TIMING MARRIAGE Astrotogy, Destiny and the Woh of Time 


Asa 10°50” Mars 3" Venus 41°23' 
Sun 4526" Mercury 21:1°05' Satum(R) 16°59" 
Moon 4°48" Jupiter {O°50° Rahu 25°00" 


Navamsha 


Jup Mer Sun 


enjoying the festivity of the atmosphere and, not knowing what it 
was all about. That divine lady was garlanded, they had sung some 
bhajans and as we* in a procession-{lke manner, had wended our 
way out of the platform, the singing had continued. Who was she 
1 had asked and they had sald Ala Anandamoyee. 

That great divine lady addressed by one and all as Ma used to 
come to Lucknow every year and every year divine festivity was 
there: everyone participated In It—the elders tor ihe spiritual bliss 
they enjoyed, and the children for the best sweet-meats given to 
them as prasada sometimes by ia herself* 

As a result withln the rather well-knit society of ours In our 
small locality, there had grown up a smaller society of devotees of 
Ma who knew each other well, very Intimately* when they met 


136 


Astrology, Qastury and ine Wrtl af Tima TiKING MARRIAGE 


‘every evening. round the year, to sing some bhajans andwhen Ata 
came these Sfxyfans went on and on and on. 

Four decades after* now, these devotees have disappeared, 
mast of them having played out the innings of their lives, and some 
of their children continue the traditions through their own children 
wherever they are, with their worldly pursuit nor taking a back- 
seat. 

Sometime in [979 or 1980Mr. jagdish losh1 had given me thls 
horoscope and sale. “She is the younger sister of,.." Mr* Josh! knew 
that § knew very Intimately that group oF devotees of Ma 
Anandamoyee. 


The Problem 

“Bor le 194-1 still unmarried... wil she be married at alt? IF 
yes, when?" was the specific question af Mer. jagdish fosht. Mr. jasht 
knows Astrology and that {§ an advantage. 

Surely yes, was my answer When her lupiter dasha stasts.-. 
after 1982. 

Mereafier either i did not work hard on It or committed some 
mistake in timing the event. 

Let me first mention the combinations hindering or even 
denying marriage In this case* 


Negative Features 
From Venus 
(a) Venus Us afflicted. 
(4) The 7th house from Venus is afflicted. 
(c) The 7th lord from Venus Is afflicted. 
(d) The }2Zth lord from Venus is afflicted, 
(e} The 12h house from Venus is affilcted. 
Fram the Logne 
(a) The 7th house Is afflicted. 
(b} The Lagna lord ls heavily afflicted. 
But the best explanation for such abnormally delayed 
marriage Is available in the research of my friend Kt.S. Jaln. 


Mapes for Marrloge 
Jupiter 
(a) lupiter is In the Lagna, wnafFiieted and tells you a hidden story. 
As a benefic 7th lord Tn the Lagna, he arouses spiritual hopes* 
{b} lupiter as the 7th lord aspects his own house. 


£37 


TIMING MARRIAGE Astrology, Destiny and th= Woreot ol Time 


{c} Jupiter's aspect is Ganga-water consecrating whatever It Is 
spiakted on. 
Mercury 
Lagna lord Mercury is afflicted heavily no doubt* But looking 
closely, at Mercury's degrees you can see the distance of |9 degtess 
from the Mars and 1/7 degrees from the Sun* The severity of 
afftction ts diminished but a Lagna-lord in a hostile surrounding 
must delay marriage also. 
Venus 
Ketu is 14 ctegiees away from Venus but Saturn In the 7rh 
house is only 4 degrees more than Venus. 
MMoon 
Totally unafflicted, the Moon is receiving the aspect- of Juptter. 
Navamsha 
In the Navamsha. Mars the Lagna lord is debilitated and 
causes. in addition, triple afflictions this: 
(a) [s with Venus, the 7th lord of the Navamsha. 
(b) Planets coming under the Influence of Mars or Venus In the 
Navamsha. 
(ch Affficts the Moon aise. 

But then also notice that Mars is the Lagna lord of the 
Navamsha and Venus, the 7th lord both aspected by two benefics, 
lupiter and Mercury, So i had hopes and | had sald she would 
get married in her forties when her Jupiter dosha starts. 


Method uf Timing 

While my team-mates are producing an elaborate paper on 
timing marrige through various dasfa-systers, mainly the mest 
popular Virnshattari, let me point out two factors which | have found 
useful In riming marralge. 

ta} Planets or owners In The 1/7 and 4/10 wats have a major role 
in causing mariage of girls. 
(b) Planets coming under the Influence of Mars or Venus in the 

Navamsha play a major rote In causing marriages* 

Here Jupiter and Mercury cover both 1/7 and 4/40 axis while 
Venus being in the 4th house Ts an active participant in marriage* The 
matriage took place in the pratyantar dasha of VenUs. In the 
anta dasha of Mercury and mahadasha of Jupiter. 

Now Transits 

Sometime in her Rahu dasha and Jupiter antardasha her 

matiage was fixed with a very ‘saintly young man* Jupiter was then 


15k : 


Astrotegy, Destiny and the Wheel of Tino TIMING MARRIAGE 


in her Lagna and Saturn In her 7th house completing the double 
transit as established by our research. But tt did not come off. 

Later in 1980-81 both Saturn and Jupiter were. In her Lagna 
but the dasha was not favourable for her marriage. 

Now when Saturn was retrograde in Libra, in 1985, it covered 
the 1/7 axis and waited for lupiter to reach Pisces to cover the 
same 1/7 axls and the dasha too was favourable. 

In i968 when her marlage was fixed with a very saintly 
person !t did not materialise as that noble man was passing 
through a period of Intense spiritual attraction towards the cosmic* 
After his wanderings all aver, now he had come back and finding 
that the girl he should have married eighteen years ago Is still 
unmarried, straightaway agreed to marry her now. In April t98?,. 


Faster Moving Planets 
We invoke Gods to celebrate our marriage. Planets representing 
Gods attend marriages. This has been proved statistically by my 
team-mates, Let me show that again here. 
The planetary positions on the day of marriage will be : 
(a) The Lagna lord meets the 7th lord in the 7th house* 
(b) The Sun and Rahu arc there in the 7th house taking rhe total 
of Geds inside the mariage mandapam to four. 
(c) Hovering near the 7th house, outside the mandapam I5 Venus 
in the 6th house* 
(d) The Moon is about to enter the bride's house, the Lagna 
(e) Saturn Is with the Lagna lord In Scorpio, giving company to 
the bride. 
()} Mars from Taurus is aspecting the Lagna lord and more 
Important Venus. 


Transit 


April 11, 4987 


Rah Sun 


a Ker Jup 


139 


TIMING MARRIAGE Astrology, Destiny and the Wheel of Tme 


So the saintly man marries a bride from a family with a rich 
spiritual background, having served the great Anandamoyee Ma. 

But ‘the question ts why was thls marriage delayed so batily. 
As | have sald | can explain it but that should be done by 
Mr, %.S!"faln as his research finding his given me Immense 
satisfaction In clinching rhe issue in a horoscope where there are so 
many afflictions, but Mr. Jain should produce his paper. | will not 
even give a hint here. But to understand him keep ready the 
horoscope with fully conect degrees of all planets and the Lagna 
and the Navamsha. 

The other story I will narrate shows how God showers His 
grace when you expect Jt /east. Here 1 will again not disclose the 
name and other details of the girl except telling you that she 


fia had OO as 
z 
Chart 2 


Lagna 02°30" Mars 25° Venus 04°00 
Sun OB°OO Mercury 29°00 Saturn{R) 29°00 
Moon 28°00 Jupiter 13°00 Rahu 42°00 


a 
{ 
a Navamsha 


at 
Kel 


160 


fatolegy, Dastlay andthe Woot of Fimo TIMING MARRIAGE 


belongs to semeane who i elated to Mr, Upenctea Valpal, the well 
known Delhi {owrnalist. 

The slsterlneliwe of this girl had (nslstetl on showing the 
horoscope to me asahe had at some crucial rime In her own Ife 
consulted mc. 

Somaeititie towards the end of 198 this horoscope {Chart 2) 
was shown to me with the same question, "Born hn September 
t945 and nt marred yet. Will she be married at all?” 

My answer was, "Yes, very soon and with a man With a lot of 
property”. 

This gin's sister-in-law wham 2 will call *S” told me in her 
attractive cultured and polite way the following ; 

(a) The horoscope given to me with degrees was cast by her late 
father who was himself an astrologer, he dted on November 9, 
1974. 

(b) The gitt had no educatlonat qualifcatlans having not gone 
beyond the fourth class, 

(c} She was not good faoking and had even become plumplsh, 
not attractive from any palnt of view* 

(d} They had no money to pay dowry* When It comes to the 
dowry the higher caste’ demand more. They being Brahmins 
had reconciled to her remaining unmarried. 
| could see that “S" was suggesting that It could be a 

nomattlage horoscope. And here was a_ girl with all 
‘disqualifications* In the mattimeanial market. When it comes to the 
question of dowery, ail the spiritual heritage of this coutnry seems 
to vanish and -greedy parents of the eligible bachelors make such 
demands as to make me wonder whether we are worshippers of 
Cod or Satan. Being over-sensitlve on this polnt, particularly In a 
country where we quote that woman must be worshipped and 
that where woman is Insulted a crematorium ls created |! had 
prayed to God that this prediction of mine must click fast. Now fist. 
look at the negative features of the horoscope delaying mariage. 


Nepative Features 
From Venus 
{a} Venus in Leo, a sterile rashl, 1s afflicted by Saturn, 
(b) The 7th lord from Venus Is heavily afflicted* 
(c)} Other wise Venus fs conjunct with Mercury. 
Fram the Lagno 
{a} The 7th lord Venus Is in sterile Rashi, afflicted, 


tal 


” TIMING MARRIAGE Astrology. Cettiny and the Wheel of Time 


Transit on 
Feb 74, 1984 


(b} The 7th house receives the aspect of Mars. 

ic) The Lagna lord Is afflicted as In the earlier case, rather heavily* 
From the Navamsha 

(a) Jupiter in Lagna aspects the 7th house, sprinking Ganga water. 

{b} Venus In hls own house is afflicted by Mars. 

But the explanations for delay In this case alse are available In 

the research of my friend Mr. iK.S. Jain. Hls research applies so 
pointedly. 


Timing 
I have stated that in the Vimshottari dasha marriages of girls 
seem to take place in the dashas of planers connected with t/? and 
4/10 axis, their lords etc’ Now here this girl was passing through the 
mahadasha of the Moon, vargottama and the antardasha of Mars, 
lord of Lagna associated with the 10th lord and aspecting the 10th 
house. 
The Pratyantar dasha was of Mercury, associated with the 7th 
lord and aspected by the 10th lord* 
Transits 
Transit on February 14, 1981, the day of marriage* 
fuprter 
Let me show the research of my team-mates applying In toto 
again, Jupiter (retrograde) In Virgo will act also from Leo In this 
case* 
(a) fuplter Is with the Sth lord of the birth horoscope, 
(b) In Leo he is with the 7th lord* 
{<} From Leo he aspects the Lagna completing the If? ands. 
Solum 
(a) From Virgo It aspects Mars, the Lagna Ierd. 


£42 


Apliolagy, Oaatiny pod |ha Wiiwo} of Tia TIMING MARRIAGE 


(b} We have shown that Mars should aspect natal Venus on the 
eve of maniage, in both cases (hat Is there” 

(c) We have also established That Mars must do single handedly 
all that Saturn-fuplter do, Here Mars is aspecting the 5th and 
the 7th lords besides having aspected the Lagna earlier when 
it was in Capricorn. 


Subsequent Events 

“S" lives In Patel Nagar in Delhi and cames ta meet me once 
in slx months oreven more, But sometime In March or April 98! 
she came and told me the following ; 

Somewhere in Uttar Pradesh a tich U.P. Brahmin had problems 
persuading his son nearing forty. to marry. Tie man had developed 
sort of a dislike for “fashionable” women about whom he had a 
terrible opinion* He Jald down some conditions for his marriage. 

{a} The girl he would marry should not be well educated, 
{b} She should not be good-looking, 
{c} She should be sufficiently advanced In age to haye become 

“out of market’ as far as matrimony was concerned, 

Thar such a girl would normally belong to a fartlly where 
indigent élreumstances existed* could be anyone’s guess. 

The bridegroom's party had undertaken a tour of northern 
india in search of a ght answering the specifications of the now 
middle age bachelor-san of the Brahmin zamtndar. After meeting 
part success everywhere they landed Ir Delhi, went to Pate! Nagar 
and found a bride answering totally to the ‘demands of their 
eccentric bridegroom. 

In Hindi they say “chat mangnf pat byah", which means al! 
formalities preceding marriage are gone through hurriedly and the 
marriage be performed at onte. 

Then “S" told me that as far as domestic comforts and landed 
property were concerned her sister-in-law was now very well off, 

Yes, [ said "Ifyou Imew astrology ! could:explain it. Her Moon, 
the 4th lord is vargeattama, aspected by jfuplrer and. is so streng. 
it promises domestic comfons which she could not have got in her 
state of indigence here. She had to go elsewhere to get what was 
due to her. That Is God's justice.” 


afch 


TIMING MARRIAGE Astrology. Oecliny and ino Whnel of Tima 
TECHNICAL ASTROLOGICAL POINTS 


1. Timing Marriage 

{kwas easy to predict marriages when there were and still are 
child. marriages and early marriages of gids, Though there Is no 
definite method given In astrological texts about thming marriage, 
yet on the basis of many Tules, astrologers all over India have 
evolved thelr own methods, which they keep a secret, tt being their 
best source of income - and dakshina (gifts), 


2, Team Efforts 

But the only time in the history of the world a team of 
astrologers collected one hundred horoscopes with one ‘hundred 
Navamsha (It makes if two hundred) and the transit positions of 
planets on the days of their marriage {now It makes three hundred) 
and produced a jotnt research and got ninety-eight percent correct 
result. Itwas In {987 and 1988, This to date ts the greatest and best 
statistlcal-emplrica) astrological research of the world. 


3. Delay factor tn Marriage 

This team has worked on the delay factor of marriage also 
through a very sctentific formula which takes mem nearest to the 
year of marrage. 


4* Dasha System 

The group research was produced on the basis of transits oF 
planets only of Saturn, and jJuptrer, slaw moving planets. and fast 
moving ones, Mars, Moon and other planets. 

Now many dashas arc being used to time the event of 
marriage. 


5. The Limitations 

Yet there are, among many, three limitations In thts area: 

{a) How to distinguish between over-delayect and cases of denial? 
| have shown in both examples how and why | rely on jupiter 
and other benefics for Insisting on my emphatic predictions 
that marriage will not be denied* But 1 have failed in some 
oases very badly. ft means that astrologers must also fall i the 
tested area of their success, 

They say In cricket that a batsman is caught on the strengest 

point, 


lad 


Asireiogy, Desiny and tha Wheel af! Time TIMING MARRIAGE 


(b} Most of the time we are mistaking pte-marltal sex for 
marriages! I discovered this when werd) from western 
countties told me about the dates of their abortion of children 
born out of the wedlock. 

Astrologers will have to do new tesatch to detect the 
difference between pre-merltalsex and sacramental mariage. 
Then there isa difference between living together and 
sacramental marriage. How to differentiate between them? I 
found Juplter’s role crucial In such prediction. But | am still 
groping lt the dark. 


(c 


6 The Principle given 

Vet the methods shown In the two examples given here are 
sound for delay im marriages, In traditional farniltes, 

) tiled this on the harascopes of women of western countries 
and found that they lived with someone with certain happierss. but 
late In (ft. Till then ft waS.a case oF changing lovers. 


p 166 is blank; erased 


lait 


CHAPTER 1 
ASTROLOGY AND KARMA 


It all the writings of writers on astrological subjects, the relation 
between astrology and karma has been discussed sometime or the 
other. Butt no writer has posed the most Important question whether 
the two graat authoritles we (follow, Mahashl Parashara and 
Varahmlhira, have or have not directly related astrology to karma. & 
further question, to which the writers should have addressed 
themselves is whether astrology gets directly related to the belief in 
the past* the present birth and the future births, 

Brihat Parashara Hora Sfastre starts with reference to the Avtara 
rama supporting the Hindu belief that God reincarnates himself in 
this world whenever the balance of evil begins to outweigh heavily 
the virtues, [m such situation nine avtaras take birth each under the 
beneficent influence of # particular planet. Lord Ratna from the Sun* 
Lord Krishna from the Maon, Lord Narasimha from the Mars, lord 
Budha from Mercury, Lord Varman from Jupiter, Lord Parshuram from 
Venus, Lord Kurma frorm Saturn, Lord Sooker from ftahu and Lord 
Meena from Ketu. [f should be }emembered that Brihat Parashara 
Hora Shastra starts with the story of divine reincarnation” 

Where and how does Parashara refer to human reincarnation? 
Such references are scattered It1 many places in Parashara's texts, 
some of which can he seen first. The eighth house is referred to as: 
Purvapara fanut Velttam, which means the occupation, the profession 
of the past birth, The next important reference {s when Parashara 
deals with the maraka or the periods of death. A child may find It 
difficultto survive In rhe Arst four years because of the evi deeds of 
the mather, in the next four years as a result of bad Karmas ofthe 
father and In the last four years upto the I2™ year due to child's own 
bad Aarmas. The nature of death Is also decided of every Individual 
as a tesult of the karma of the past Ilfe. [t can be as a result of royal 
punishment, incurable diseases* through Weapons, poisoning, 


167 


ASTROLOGY AND KARMA A4trolagy. Destiny find Ina Winal al Time 


drowning 4 water, by flre or by a fail from a height etc. Whether at 
the time of death a person would be conscious cr unconscious and 
whether he would dle at home or in while In movement or In.a 
foreign -country etc* are directly: referred to, Parashara and 
Varahmlhira both also referred, to the past, present and future birth 
In dearest terms, 


Past Birth 

To find out the world irom where 4 pafticular human-being has 
come ID take fits birth in the world of mortals, the Drekkana {decante} 
oF the Sun or the Moon Is to be seen. Here Jupiter represents Heaven 
or the highest reglan, Moon and Venus the Chandra toka, also 
referred to as Fitta Loka, Sun and Mars fram avr own world of 
mortals, while Saturn and Mercury from lower worlds, 


Future Birth 

The ‘presence of Jupiter In the 6", 7" and &" houses has been 
praised by Parashara for attaining to a higher state after death. 
Varahmihir praises Jupiter inthe 40" house. IFthere are no planets in 
the 6". 7™ or 8" houses, the lords of 6" and 8™ house and their 
Drekkanas.are to be examined, 


Present Birth 

When Parashara refers both ro the past birth and the future birth, 
how and where does he refer directly to the present birth? There are 
direct. references In many places.but the most sigmificant reference Is 
made in the chapter dealing with the. curses of the previous life asa 
result oF which a person can be deprived of children tm the present 
fe. Here: Mandl and the 5° house, alongwith other ptanets, is to be 
made ust oF and the particular nature of the curse af the previous ilfe 
analysed. For instance, if tn sucht a curse, the Sun Is assoclated, the 
curse Is of the father. ifthe Moon, of the mother etc. and If Rahu is 
with Mandl, {tis described as Sarpa Dosha of the previous birth, 
Parashara even prescribe the methods of the propitiation of planets 
or Graha Shand for each type of curse. There should, therefore, be no 
doubt telt In the minds that our astrology Is directly related to the 
past, the present and the future birth, and these wholly anced 
substantially support the theory of reincarnation* 

IFastrology supports the theory of reincarnation, we shall see It 
being referred to In every Hindu Scripture, and this has been 
mentioned repeatedly In the Gita. Two questions will arise: 


168 


Astrology, Destiny and oe Wheet of Time ASTROLOGY AND KARMA 


t. What about those who do not believe. in reincarnation, and 
2. What about sclendfic proof In modern terms of such 
reincarnation. 
This question cart be answered tn two ways 

The first is to quote from the Hindu Scriptures where there are 
references of hundreds of cases of relncarnatinn, Naturally the 
linmediate objection that you would make is whether non-Indians 
and non-Hindu can believe tn reincarnation at all, After the 
researches of Dr. lan Stevenson’, In case of reincarnation, there 
should be no doubt left about such reincarnation” 

Reincarnation immediately reinforces belief In three other Inter- 
connected observations and traditional Indian beliefs. The first Is what 
Is known as the Aarma-phalasor the result of the karmas oF the past 
life. The second is the karma-samskaraor psycho-mental emotional 
tendencies of the previous |Ife and the third is the birth-marks. In 
mie than 600 thoroughly Investigated cases of Dr, lan Stevenson 
covering the entire world, almost all religions and most of the 
continents. no doubt should be left anymore in the minds of even 
those who demand the scleatlfic proof for verifying the cases of 
reincarnation, Some of these cases briefly are as follows: 

ShantiDevi: Dr. fan Stevenson had no benefit of Investigating 
inta the most celebrated case of Shanti Devt of Delhi, who in her 
previous Ilf was in Mathura and had met the children of het previous 
life who were much older to her, This case came to rhe notice of the 
world when Mahatma Gandhi got a committee consitituted under 
Delhi's Deshbandhu Gupta to investigate thorouglhy into the veracity 
of Shanti Devi's case. For matty decades tits was the most widely 
reported case In the world, Shanti Devi dled sometime tn 1987 or 
(988, 

Copal Gupta = The most celebrated case for our generation Is 
that of Gopal Gupta of Delhi who In iis previous Ife was Mayor of 
Mathura and was shot dead In [948, after his own wife of the 
previous birth hatched #2 conspiracy with her brother-in-law ro get 
her own husband murdered* The name of Gopal Gupta (bom on 
August 1956 1n Delhi) was Shakti Pal Sharma (was born on December 
30,1903) (p. 77}. 

En all the cases of people who remember their previous life, the 
death In the preceding life has invarlably been violent. How the 


1 Twenty cases suggestive of Reincemation.Dr. tan Stevenson, M O,, Uatvarsily 
Press of Virginia, Chartotigsviia 


Oe 


ot 
ASTROLOGY AND KARMA Astrology. Destiny and the Wheel of Tima 


samskaras Of the previous life reappear in the present life is clear In 
the case of Gopal Gupta from amongst many Instances. When as boy, 
he was asked by his father to remove a cup that had been used by 
someone ‘and had become ‘polluted (ucchisht), he objected, saying 
that he-could not do so, slnee, he was a Brahmin. Jt was the odd 
reply of Gopal Gupta which led to detailed Investigation Inte his past 
life. 

Gopal Gupta's mother, Omvati Gupta had an unusually strong 
desire for frult-Julces, especially, orange-[ulce during her pregnancy 
with Gopal (p.96). Dr. Stevenson Lnvestigated {nto thls and found out 
that Shakti Pal Sharma, was particularly fond of fruits and especially 
orange juice. 

Kum Kum Verma : In the Darbhanga district of Bihar, there 
lived a woman called Sundari who was poisoned to death by her 
daughter-in-law In 1950. Sundari made a cobra her pet, which she 
fed and allowed to sleep Inher own room. Five'years after her death 
she was born as the second daughter and the third child of 
Dr. B.K. Verma and his wife Subhadira who lived In Bahera, a place not 
very far from Darbhanga. When Kum Kum was 2 1/2 years old, she 
started asking about her previous lifé in Bazar, Darbhanga, Kum Kum 
had by birth, some marks on the lobes of her ears which In her 
previous life had been pierced fer earrings* When Kum Kum was four 
years old she showed an unjsual Interest in snakes. Once when she 
Was at her school, a cobra fell from a tree. Other children panicked 
and ran away but Kum Kum went up to the snake, patted [ton the 
hood and cuddled It. The snake which had been stunned by Its fall 
recovered and quietly crawled away. Thls was the result of the 
samskara of the previous Ife. 

In astrology we can easily trace Aarma-phala through the 


130 


Aatology, Destiny and the Wheel of Time ASTROLOGY AND KARMA 


mahadasha system, for instance see Chart I. 

In 1990 this lady was passing through the dasha of Moon- 
Venus, lt can easily be seen ; 

(a) From the Lagna the.7th lord Jupiter In the 6th house aspected 
by Mars. 

{b} The 7th house has Saturn, again aspected by Mars. 

(c) From the Moon the 7th lord Venus has gone into the 6th house 
while the 6th lord Mars has gone into the 7th house. 

(d) In the mahadasha of rhe Moon which 3s with the 7th lord In the 
6th house from the Lagna and Inthe antardasha of Venus which 
is the 7th lord from Moon in the 6th house, there had to be 
strong difference of opinion with her husband. 

Finally she had to divorce her husband. Astrologers can easily 
see that certain planetary pattern In every horoscope represents 
unavoidable proofs or pre-cestination. 

Similarly, a person born with a horoscope (Chart 2), In the 
mahadasha of Mercury, antardasma of Sun and pratyantar dasha of 
Miars, there was a bigtheft in his house, as a result of which jewellery 
nearly worth of Rs. 40,000 of his wife was stolen. Such an Incident 
Is explainable only through the application of astrological prindples. 
This person has been suffering from losses and ‘thefts of property 
repeatedly. 


The Physical, Astral and Causal Bodies 

What then Is salvation? For the purposes of our understanding 
let us rememer that there three bodies: the physical body (sthula 
sharfra), the subtle astral body and the sarana sharira. The 
transmigration of soul Is directly related to the astral body. So long 
as the astral body, which Is called the Hag defils not destroyed, the 


17) 


ASTROLOGY AND KARMA Astrology, Destiny and ta Wiinel of Time 


cycle of bltths,and re-births. does not end. There 1s an Interesting 
story In the.Mahabbarata, Arun, whohad Lord Krishna as Ns guide 
and guru, and listened to- the highest spiritual wisdom through the 
preaching .of the Bhagvat Gli on the battlefield of Kunskshetra, 
forgot. all these lessons, and long after, he once again requested 
Krishna to help him refresh those lessons. Krishna admonished Arun 
for forgetting those lessons and fe-explained the essence of the Gita 
through, what is known as. Brahman Gita, Arjun again forgot these 
but after the departure of Lord Krishna from the world of mortals. 
Aun got Immersed In deep spiritual practice’ The Srimad 
Bhagvatam describes that It was now that the astral body of Arjun 
was destroyed and he remembered each and every lesson of the 
Gita. Itis through such a destruction of the astral body that mortals 
get liberation or mukt. 

Again some objections can be taised. Why should non-Hindus 
believe in astral body at all. Such objections ‘will be less now than 
they were two decades ago because of the recorced Instances of the 
out of body experiences given by Dr. Raymond. Many people who 
sulfer a severe heart-attack see their astral body getting detached 
from the physical body and watching all the activities of the doctors 
and mmtse. Dr Raymond has recorded many such Instances. 
Dr. Raymond gives an interesting Instance of a person who was 
Involved Ina terrible car-accident and saw his astral body getting out 
of the physical body. After he was restored to life. one day, he 
happened to be walking in an area of criminals of USA. Someone 
suddenly came and put a pistol on hls chest and threatened to Kl 
him. When he showed no tractlon, the criminal was surprised and 
asked hitn, why he was not.afraid of death? The answer of that, man 
was that the end of physical body had no meaning for tim because 
he had experienced that there was life after death or death after fife, 

Ir ls mar possible for an astrologer ro trace out with any 
confidence what an Individual was in his previous life though Jn the 
Bhrigu Samhita of northern Inada and the Mads of southern India, 
there afe fefetences .to the previous Ife. An astrological classic 
known as the Karma Vipak Samhita traces a man's past Ife according 
to the charan (quarter) of his blrth-Nakshatra (Moon constellation). 

All these lead to the inevitable conclusion that astrology Is 
integrally telated to the previous births, the present bith and the 
future birth. it is for this reason that astrology and astrologers refer 
to three types of Aarnras; tlie.senchtta or the accumulated &armas of 
aj! previous fli¢ as Ls alloted for enjoyment or sufferlngs of the present 


172 


Astrology. Basitny andlnp Wheel of Tima ASEROLOGY ANGKARVA 


life and the tearm which is a direct offspring of (he kammas of the 
previous and present life. Until all these karmas ate liquidated totally, 
there is no liberation or mukd, the total liquidation of the karmas, 
total destruction of the astral body Wtself. it is for thls reason that 
Parashara and Varahmihira referred to the past, present and future 
Incarnation of every person. interestingly, In falmintAstrology from 
the Aarakamsha and AmatydtiavaA'athe examination of a horoscope 
can be done to find out whether a person would get final 
emancipation or nut. 

Itis necessary for us to stress here that the theary of astrology 
is based 10046 on the theory of siarma, reincarnation, Mot* scientific 
clues are now coming from the West while for Indians It has only 
been a matter of traditional belief so far. 

The Afahabbaratd refers to the Karims of previous Ife and states 
in the clearest ferms that Mone can escape the consequences of the 
karttias he has done or Isdoing. The karma is {lke a calfwhich knows 
how to search for his mother-cow, even in a herd. The karma chases 
Its doer unmistakably, ft ls for thls reason that It has been sald; 


HATA TRAY SPAS Se TTY! 
qe tetra acca sofa 
Karmas have fo be suffered (or enjoyed). They do not get 


Liquidated otherwise. Similarly, again the Mahabbarata refers to the 
relation between astrology and karma through the planets thus : 


Han Wear a alfa wy 

Day AeA HA, Ta Wel gel 
It Is not planets and nakshateas alone which give auspicious or 
inauspicious results. It Is ail the result of one’s own karmas though 


the popular belief Is that it Is only the planets that Impel or compel 
into a right or wrong act. 


are | 


CHAPTER 


ASTROLOGY, FATE 
AND FREEWILL 


For non-astrologers the debate about fate and freewill ts purely 
philasophtecal. Most of the writers produce confusing volumes of 
books on the subject and mesmerize thelr readers with their 
confuslons. 

For the the astrologer, lt is mot a debate but only a question of 
developing more and more of his ability to see it, as he alone can, 
since astrology, better described as fyotisha, Is a Pratyaksha Shastra 
or a proofs-fillect subject of classical learning, 

What the astrotoger sees can be divided into three parts: 

{a) That area where destiny must prevail and man has no choice* 

(b) That part where man can exercise hts freewill to improve the 
best of the pre-destined results or overcome the predestined 
misfortuens, partly may be even fully. It fs, however, debatable 
whether man can ever overcome completely his pre-clestined 
misfortunes. 

(c) That mixed area where rhe astrologer cannot see himself where 
strokes of destiny become more mightily dominant over freewill 
of vice-versa, 

Ail these can be Illustrated In many volumes produced by a 
team of astrologers. Here only some astrological Wustrations are 
being given to explain what exactly the three areas mean* 


Men-Debateble Points about Destiny 
Eldest or the Youngest Among Brovhers/Sisters 

An astrologer should see the slx horoscope given here 
{Chart | -6} and ask himself what is the common feature he sees In 
them. 


What is being given here is only a thumb rule but a thumb mle 


[74 


Astrology. Destiny and &¥ Wheal of Tine ASTROLOGY, FATE AND FREEWILL 


Kel Ven 
Sun 
Chart 2 os 
oe 


which applies to over sixty percent horoscope ts a valid rute which 

can be depended on. What Is the common feature In all these 
horoscopes? 

3. The first horoscope Is of a male who Is the youngest child of his 
parents. 


L75 


ASTROLOGY. FATE AND FREEWILL 
L. 1) 
os Chart 4 


Asyology, Destiny and tha Whaetef.7ima | 


2. The second one Is of a gid who fs youngest {seventh) child ot 
her parenis. 
3* The third horoscope Is of a male who is the elder of the two son 
of his parents. 
A, The fourth Is of a male who Is elder of the two sons of his father 


‘Setpiogy Destuey and ie YWhezl of Tine ASTROLOGY, FA FEAND FREEWILL 


though he has a sister elder to him, 

. The fifth 1s of a male who is the younger of the two sons of lils 

Parents, 

6, The last is of a lady who 1s the eldest among the five children 
of her parents, 

Now What is the common feautre in these horoscopes? 

!. ln ‘the first horoscope the eleventh lord fs in the third. 

Z. tn the second one also the eleventh lord ts im the third house* 

3* In the third horoscope the eleventh Jord is fn the third* 

4. It the fourth one the third lord [Is In the eleventh house* 

5. In the fifth horoscope the eleventh lord [s In the third. 

6. In the-sixth horescepe the eleventh lord Is Im the thirct. 

The thumb rule which can be replicated with sixty prercert 
success Js that If the third ford is In the eleventh house or the 
efeventhiord im tiw third, the person will either be the eldest or the 
youngest child of his parents; or till be tte eldest or the youngest 
among sister or brotters, 

Since we are talking of destiny,.ask one Important question. 
Does a person have a choice to be born as the eldest or the youngest 
child of hls parents ar, Is i¢decided by destiny. What then Is destiny? 
Whether ane believes In in destiny or not, the argument must start 
with the question whether one had any choice to be born at a 
particular time, In a particular family with particular parents In a 
particular sUrraunding. At what stage could one have exercised-any 
choice to select one's Parent, brothers* sisters, the family to be born 
Itt, be tt a wealthy one Ol a poor one? Ifa man slts down (list out 
wharf in his life has happened without his having any choice In them, 
there is no reason why he should not believe ih destiny* 

Similarly s¢@ the following four horoscopes (Chart 7-10), 

The ninth house {f astrology is representative of father and 
religion. Now see In the four horoscopes given here, how rhe ninth 
lord is placed, 

1, In the first horoscopes (Chart 7), the ninth lord is Im the eighth 
house with Ketu and ©, Naraslmba Rao went Inte adoption 
(changing his father) i Bis childhood, aver which he could not 
have had any control. Was it not pre-destined as the planet 
Indicate? 

2, The second horoscope (Char 8} belongs to a Congress Member 
of the Indian Parliament, Mr. Cheka Rao whose ninth lord Is tn 
rhe eighth house. He too went inta adoption In his childhoad— 
a decision a¥e! which he had no control, it being P re-destined, 


te 
on 


177 


ASTROLOGY, FATE AND FREEWILL Astroloov. Oestny and the Wheel of Time 


A Multimillion- 
aire 


3. The third horoscopes (Chart 9) belongs to a mult-mllllonaire in 
which there Is an exchange between his eighth and ninth lords. 
He is a Parsl, follower of the Zoroasirlan religion but he took his 


spiritual initiation in a Hindu sadhana from a guru In Omar Hills 
of Gujarat. 


Asttogy, Destiny and the Wheal of Time ASTROLOGY, FATE AND FREEWILL 


Chart 10 


Atop exccilve 


4, The fourth horoscope (Chart 10) resembles the third one and 
her too there Is an exchange between the eighth and ninth 
lords. He 4s a Hindu Brahmin doing intensely a Buddhistic 
sadhana after accepting a Japanese guru* 

What astrology reveals is that what is perdestined happens. 
Timing the event is the only problem of an astrologer and he should 
have no doubt that what planetary patterns reveal has to manifest In 
some form or the other Im man's ltfe, though when It happens, the 
person claims, “! decided to accept a guru of a different religion 
because he appealed to me". 

We astrologers are familiar with good and bad events in the life 
ofa man and we predict on that basis successfully because planetary 
patterns reveal the pattern of destiny which non-astrologer cannot 
see. 

Hundreds and thousands of such Instance can be given from all 
aspects and walks of a man's iife to show why destiny has to prevail 
giving man no choice to decide many events of his life. 


I 
AREA OF FREEWILL 

There are area In which a person can exercise his freewill but 
within the orbit of the pre-destIned, not outside It. This can be 
Illustrated Im many different ways on different horoscopes. For our 
example let us take the role of astrological counselling for career 
counselling starting with pinpointing the educational choices before 
a student. 


To do it note down : 
(a) The nakshatra In which the fifth lord from the Lagna Is posited 


FIG 


ASTROLOGY, FATE AND FREEWILL Astrology. Destiny and (ha Wheel of Time 


and the Influence of other planets and the lord of the house 
Involved. 

(b) There see the influences on the fifth house and the fifth lord from 
_ Mercury. ; 
(c) Combine both; the Influences of planets to decide the various 

educational choices available. 

(d) The strongest of those choices and the mahadasha running will 
ultimately decide the choice of higher education and the career 
pattern* 

Thus within the pre-destined orbit, a person can exercise some 
choices. It ls being illustrated here. 


The first Example 

The fifth lord is Saturn In his own nakshatra and In the house of 
the Moon; the fifth house from Mercury is Capricorn which receives 
the aspect of both Saturn and Mars. and the house Involved Is 
Capricom {owned by Saturn). Totalling up. Saturn comes Into play 
thrice, Mars once and the Moon once* The education has to be 
technical. The Moon which represents vehicles led this man Into 
completing a diploma In automobile-engineenng. 

Here the choice could even have been Inlgatlan, electrical 
engineering. But the Moon ijn the third house of communications 
decided It in favour of automobile-engineering. 


1 e 


The Second Example 

Here the choice is not much as both from the Lagna and 
Mercury the fifth house has Saturn, Mars and me Moon all of which 
are In the nakshatra oF Mercury. He learnt mechanical] engineering, 
later learnt about petrol pump management and finally an 
independent business in construction work. 


130 


Astrology, Destiny and Ih Wheel of Time ASTROLOGY. FATE AND FREEWILL 


The Third Example 

Here the fifth house has Saturn aspected by Jupiter and rhe fifth 
house is Taurus owned by Venus; the fifth lord Venus Is In his own 
nakshatra but with the Sun and Mercury aspected by Mars. Totalling 
up the Influence of Saturn, Jupiter and Venus show Venusilan 
Influences predominating. The conjuction of Mercury with the Venus 
shows accountancy, commerce economics etc. This girl was advised 
to do acourse In fashion designing. after doing her &.Com. (a course 
In commerce}. She has successfully completed her diploma In 
fashion designing and has started her business, 


lal ae 


xample 3 
Sun Mer 
Ven2725 


The Fourth Example 

Here the fifth ford, Mercury is In the nakshatra of Rahu who In 
turn is In the slgn of fuplter and with Moon. The fifth house from 
Mercury is Gemini with Ketu in It receiving the aspects oF the Moon, 
Rahu and Mars. The fifth lord with the Sun and Venus showed all the 
other influences. This woman studied economics, histery. learnt 


IKI 


ASTROLOGY. FATE AND FREEWILL Astrojogy, Destiny and ts Wheel of Time 


Ven Sun 


Aler 19°25" 


music, dance and finally underwent training in tax-administration 
professionally after she became an Incometax officer. 

These four Instances, tike hundreds will show that the deeper an 
astrologer works on similar lines, the finer and dearer become the 
choices available. This lady could develop interest In her professional 
subjects and also artistic subjects, one taking precedence over the 
other as the dasha changes* The versatile talents ofa person can thus 
be polntecd out and the person can be advised property when to 
concentrate on what, motone at the cost of the cther, but following 
a well-planned scheme of changing priorities. 

In all these examples the choices are within the predestined 
limits only. 


fe at feaadia aaatsers wifi 


Kim karma Idm akarmelti kayayo api atra mohitah 
THE Gita’, IV-16. 

What karma is and what Is not karma, Is very difficult to 
understand. Jt baffles even the seer. 

Astrologers should remember that it will never be possible for 
them to trace the karma and Karma-phala fully, successfully and 
correctly ever as even the best of the seers do not know It, We come 
across. baffling cases where we do not know what to predict. ft és In 
such eases that no one can say where the borderline of destiny 


I.Sri Chandra Shekhar theformer Prime Minister ofindia (Nov 1990 to’ 
7997) 


[$2 


Asirgiogy, Cestiny and the Wheal of Tne ASTROLOGY, FATE AND FREEWILL 


disappears and the domain of | freewill Begins. 

Instead of theorising, let it be explained wlth the case ilstoryof 
three horoscopes, and an extraordinarily spiritual story* 

Avery well knawn Indian’ had a dream on the night of fuly 15, 
1993 while he had gone on a tour-to Bangalore in south India, that 
one ofthe three or four small male children, the grandchildren of hls 
younger brother, was going to meet with a fatal accident. 

Roundabaut thls time the daughter of an Important Nepal ese 
leader too had a similar dreamy and she uled ro contact this well 
known Indian but could nor. 

The father of the boy had a similar dream in which he sawa saint 
warn him, 

The young child fell Into a small tank full of ralm water. The 
medical report Is reproduced heie. 


Case Summary 

Yashavardhan, one and a half years old boy, was admitted Inthe 
Paediatric Intensive Care Unit of AUIS, New Delhi on July 18 1993 
at 9,20 P.M. He was transferred from RMLUL. Hasipltal, New Delhi on 
a portable ventilator. 

On the forenoon of July 17, the child was the victim of 4 near- 
drowning accident In 4 small tank of dirty rain waser located in the 
lawns of his residence. He was picked up after 6 to 7 minutes oF rhe 
accident and it took about 7 to 8 minutes to transfer him to R.M.iL 
Hospital, New Delhi, where he was found to be apnele and without 
any cardiac beats (asystole) on ‘EKG monitor. After about iQ minules 
of CPR efforts, cardiac rnythm was established and he svas put on 
assisted ventilation, It seems that the period Apnea and asystofe 
lasted for about 10 to 25 minutes before he was revived. During lis 
stay of about 36 hours at RMA_L Hospital he was found to have 
severe combined resplratary-metalbolic acidosis, hyponatremia and 
hypokalemia. 

“Prolanged SER on Left side, Probably has a prognostic value— 
likely to have a residual deficit due to this, in case the patient 
recovels,” 

At ane stage itseems, the doctors had declared the boy dead. 
When the horoscope ofthe boy was brought, the parents were asked 
to bring their horoscopes also. A combined reading of all the three 
horoscopes was cone with me¢ firm conviction and only nan- 
committal prediction was given, stage by stage thus: 


iH, 


ASTROLOGY, FATE AND FREEWILL Astrology, Oesteny and the Wheel of Tims. 


The Boy 

No benefic Is in quadrants'and Mercury as the sixth lord of 
accidents with.-two malefics was no good. The lord of the lagna, 
Saturn Is -totally combust. Jupiter in the eighth could be a ray of 
hope. The child was passing through the period of Mereury-Rahu- 
Venus.: Here Mercury as the sixth lord aid Rahu and Venus in the 
twelfth house made the child's hospitalisation Inevitable. In translr, 
Saturn in Aquarius and Mars in Lea occupying two-elghth axis was 
not helpful at all. Only the aspect of Jupiter from Leo on Rahu and 
Venus could again raise some hopes. 


29/30 Jan. 1992 
Mar-Rah-Moon 


, upto 
Dac, 14, 1993 


But from the Moon, Mercury became the eighth lord, while 
Rahu In the second house and Venus as the seventh lord in the 
second house destroyed any chances of optimistic view of this. 
tenible situation. 

The first four years In a child's horoscope, Its span of life is 
dependent on the karmas of the mother fn her past Ife; the next four 
years on father's karma and from eighth year onward the child’s own 


< 


Tha mother of 
the boy Meen-| - 
Rahu 
upto 
Aug 5. 1893 
Ss 


JL 


Asirology, Destinyand tha Wheel of Tima ASTROLOGY. FATE AND FREEWILL 


Tho father of 
the boy 
Rah-Ven-Moon 


Sat Msrs 
féer Sun 


upto 
Moon | Aug 13, 1993 


karmas of past life, is a well known astrological Instruction. It Is for 
this reason that astrologer are asked not to make any prediction 
about a child it has crossed the age of twelve years. 


Mether’s Horoscope 

In the mother's horoscope both the Moon in the second house 
of the Saptamsha and Rahu in the eighth house were bad. But it 
would be over on August 5, 1993. After the there could be some 
hope. 


Father's Horoscope 

Inthe father's Saptamsha (Gemini lagna) Rahu Is in the seventh 
house, Venus [s the fifth lord buttotally unafflicted En Leo but Saturn 
with Mars In Cancer. the second house was not encouraging- He was 
running Rahu-Venus-Mars upto October 16, I993. 


The Prediction 

The danger to the child would be maximum upto August 5, 
1993 on the basis of the child's horoscope: then upto August 13. 
1993. And then October 13, 1993 on the basis of the father's 
horoscope; Anally on the basis of the mother's horoscope the eartist 
safe date for the child's life would be August 5, 193. 

The Child recovered all the functions of hls other organs by 
August 5, 1993, Till the end of August his brain has not been 
functioning. 

Will the boy be normal again, now that he has surtved? The 
doctor who had stopped giving medicine to the boy say that only 
something supernormal has to happen to make the boy normal. 
Doctors can do nothing more. 


85 


ASTROLOG V, FATE AND FREEWLL $ Astrology. Dostay and iti Whine Of Time 


Can the astrologers predict whether the boy would become 
normal? On'the basis of the child’s horoscope #f cannot be predicted 
whether anything supermormal will happen. 

Here we do nor know where the borderline of destiny Is crossed 
aid ‘tHe area of freewill entered* Such areas of vagueness being 
many, the mitacles that prayers can bring about, have to be believed. 
‘Among many such cases in my knowledge, {have discussed the case 
ofY.S, In the book. 


iv 
RECONCILING FATE AND FREEWILL 


Vad: fas ai: aaiin oan: 


Prakriteh Kriyantanant gqunaih Karmani Sarvashah 
THE GTA, 1-27 

All the qualities, Sane, Rajasie and Tamasic, Inherent In nature 
ate the motive forces for all the karmas. 

If a man thinks that he is doing any karma he Is mistaken 
because he should know that he does what kis Inherent satwick, 
fajasle or tafmasic qualltiesimpe! fim to de. Thus no man can really 
accept fate and remain Idie. 

But how are the two. fete and freewill to be reconciled. The best, 
Is to quote the Matabharata In hls context, wherein to the question 
of the eldest Pandava tuddhishtr, the great &hishma answered 
thts: 

The seed : Karma which sprouts inte a plant, tree, leaves, 
flowers and fruits and all that* 

The Farm : freewélll Is Uke farming without which no seed can 
sprout, Fate Is the seed and efforts (freewill) is the fattm, on which Is 
grown the harvest of lifé. Both, fate and efforts have to co-exlst, The 
word used for efforts Is purushartia, 

Results of Karras: Every man has to enjoy or suffer the results 
of his good and bad Xarmas, himself, itis well-known and has been 
observed by all. 

Good karmas give good results and bad karmas bad results. It 
Is one’s own karmas that yield results always. 

The Hard Tier : The person whe works hard gets respect and 
dignity according to his own destiny, and fuck. 

Through hard work. which includes spiritual practices as well, 4 
person gets honour and. dignity, . The fazyone who puts In no efforts 


186 


Asitdopy, Desuny aad the Wheel af Time ASTROLOGY, FATE AND FREEWILL 


Is ttke a fool Whe allows salt to be spilled on the wounds of his 
Misfortunes, 

Thus through hard work one gets enlgymeitts, heavenly bilss, 
intelletuallry and steadfastness The Idler. depending only on fare and 
chance, a¢hieves nothing. 

Money, circle of friends, glory and great achievements are 
reserved only for the hard trier. 

If there were to be no such thins: as the results of karmas the 
entire world would become idttand everyone would walt for his luck. 
to give him whatever Is due to him. 

it is the efforts pur fn that follow fate. Nothing.can he given by 
Fare ifno efforts are put ¢n. 


The Witness of Karmes 

The sole witness of all karmas ala person Is his own soul, Saul 
is his friend or Ws enemy. 

Therefore very eererimined effort can render the results of many 
Atrmtasof the past totally nugatary, as though no karma was done* 


Conclusions 

I. Divine persans do only good Karas, Everything achievable ls 
achieved through good karmas, Fate will be less Inscrutable for 
the divine person. 

(What has been givne here Is a liberal ‘translation from the 

Mahabharata! 
In the greatest book of spliiual wisdom In the world, The Girt, 
the instructlons <re clear : yoga is efficient Aarme; a true 
devotee of His {fs efficient bur non-attached. Therefore man's 
duty is do his karmas and not expect ihe results to be according 
to fils wishes. He should accept gracefully the result of his 
karmmas, but should never stop doing tls karma dispassionately 
and efficiently, 
Astrolagy [s the only super-selence known to mankind which 
helps man know the trends of results and the role of destiny whose 
importance lsstressed In The Gita thus again : there Isa prafect. there 
Is a project manager, there Is rhe act of Implementarton and there are 
irnplemients afaction but there is that fifth, unknown factor. Destiny, 
That role can be seen only by an astrologer, sometimes very 
successfully and sometimes very wrangly. 


a 


. 


la? 


CHAPTER II 
ASTROLOGY AND 
PSYCHOLOGY 


What are expectations with which people go to an astrotager? 
To be guided, to know about themselves, to hear something 


good as helps them plan what they want from out of the 
circumstances they are placed In, or to be merely bluffed in the 
mumbo-jumbo that passes for psychology or, as fn Indla for graha 
shanti (pseplitatian of planets) to do which the astrologer may make 
his client spend a fortune? 


To understand the difference between astrology and psychology 


some salient points which ene cannot afford to forget are: 
{a) To call astrology merely as a science of tendencies and to Insist 


ib) 


(c) 


(d) 


that planets merely indicate, xs ever some Indian astrologers 
keep saying, 1s to forget the most notable fact that astrology Is 
4 close and scientific study of someone's pattern «f destiny 
which must manifest durlng the appropriate dashas. 

The entire Kadi literature is based on predestination, 
An astrologer who know his su bject should be able to write out 
his reading even before someone comes for consultation or ask 
himself some questions that must have happened to a person: 
Enouh Insrances have been given in this book to show wheat 
pre-destiner! events must have already happened. 
An astrologer who cannot gace the pre-destIned events can 
neither Understand the psychalogy of the person he is dealing 
with nor give tim predictions. 
An Astrologer who falls on both counts: hs Inability to 
understand the psychology of hts client at the time he has come 
ro consult him and see It deany as fappening isa double failure. 
The psychologist Is ill-equipped to do It. 
This can ie Sllustrated easily. 


IKE 


Asteology, Destinyand the Wheel of Time ASTROLOGY ANG PSYCHOLOGY 


— 
{aso Ono 


See 


. Here Rahu ts in the sixth house of disputes and Mats as the lord 
of the sixth house Isthe lord of disputes and he was running the 
the sub-period of Mars In the major period of Rahu, when he 
came for consultation, 

Mars the sixth lord fn the eleventh house aspects Saturn the 
fourth lord oflands, property and mother. 

2. Mars as the lord of the house of disputes here whose sub period 
he was running creates In hirn, mental agitation (because Saturn 
and Mars are affecting the fifth house of the mind}, 

The person admitted that nis problem was precisely that. 

Now it can be seen fn this example that it is the astrologer that 
has been the psychology, read and got it confirmed. 

fr is a most elementary use of the Vimshottari dasha. 

It should be seen that in such a case the psychologist would 
have got all the Information from hls client. 

The difference between an astrologer and a psychologist Is that 
the astrologer ‘see’ what is happening while a psychologist cannot 
do It without getting this information from hls clinet. 


Case Two 
He was running the sub-pertod of Ketu Im the major period of 
Mercury in 1994 land ‘irsvill be over In the middle of June 1995, 
1. Here Mercury Is with Mars, the fourth lord, and he decided to 
have a house of his own, 
2. But he had come in the sub-perlod of Ketu which is In the 
seventh house of the spouse, or the woman he was In love with, 
It being Ketu some deviationist tendencies are visible, 
3. In the navamsha (not given here} the ascendant Is Scoroplo, 
Mercury is in Pisces, the fifth hause and Ketu is in the twelfth 


439 


ASTROLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY Astrology. Dastity and fw Wheel of Turn 


house, Libra, 


4. Both in the bith horoscope and In the navamsha the major dasha 


lord, Mercury and the sub-dasha lord, Ketu are In sixth and 
eight position from each other FAls shows a confii¢t In the 
matters of the seventh house, which can mean spouse, a girl 
fiend or evena business partner. 

He confirmed It by saying that he was In love with a foreign girl 


who was staying with him and had suddenly left him and gone away 
after there was a quarrel with her. 


The first point of difference between the astrologer and the 


psychologist 3s that the astrologer ‘sees’ the problem which is 
agitating the mind of his client. The psychologist never had nor will 
ever have such a technique* 


A good astrologer ts far superior to the psychotogist. 


The Second Point of Difference 


t 


See the following horoscope together with the navamsha* 


. This boy was running the period of Mars, exalted and the lord 


of the fifth house of emotions which Is aspected by Saturn 
(retrograde) in the fifth house, Saturn and Mars have exchanged 
places* 


. He was running the sub-perlod of Ketu which was preceded by 


the sub-period of Mercury, the seventh lord of girl friend. 


. Ketu In the ninth house (father) Is aspected by Mars which 


shows the Intense reaction of hls father who had disapproved of 
the fove affair of his son with a foreign girl. 


in the Navamsfo 


BE. 
2. 


The Moon representing the mind Is very heavily affilcted. 
The major period lord Mars fs with Rahu in the ‘twelfth house. 


190 


Asirotegy, Destiny and Ihe Wheel of Time ASTROLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY 


Case Three 
Rashi 


| 
hae “ = 
Moon Jup 
Ket 


3. The subperiod lord Ketu Is in the sixth house with the 
debilitated Moon and Is being aspected by Mars* 

4* The lord of the fifth house In the navamsha Is Venus badly placed 
in the eighth house and js being apsected by Saturn, the lord 
of the eighth, rhe house of self-annihilation. 

The boy lost his mental balance and was found dead ina foreign 
coutnry, 
tn Transit 

|, Saturn was fn Capricorn causing the third two-and-a-half year 
spell of saade-saaét. 

2. Mars was \n Pisces aspecting the seventh house ar love 
attractions and death. 

3* Ketu was in Gemini the seventh house of death when this 
Incident tool place. 

The second point of difference between the astrologer and the 
psychologist is that the astrologer can see the tragic pattern of an 
event unfolding In future, though, he can do nothing to prevent it. 


19] 


ASTROLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY Astrology, Destiny and Um Wheel of Time 


Astrology takes one into a firm belief In the Wilt of God'and ah 
astrologer can see it, forewarn about It and sometimes succeed fn 
preventing It or getting It mitigated. 

The psycho-analyst need not believe in divine laws. In fact the 
father of psycho-analysis, Freud, called religion and belief in God as 
escapism and dubbed It as "father neurosis”. 


Counselling 

An astrologer's counselling Is based on the future he sees 
clearly. 

A psychologist is handicapped in this respect. 

See the horoscope given here. 

No other details are being given here except telling that the 
period shé was running was Moon-Venus. 

The other Important fact which can help us Is that Saturn was In 
Sagittarius and Rahu in Capricorn when she had come to ask the 
question about ‘something’ which she had not revealed. 


Analysis 
(a) From the ascendant the seventh tord, Jupiter Is fn the seventh 
house and is being aspected by Mars, the lord of the sixth 
house, 
{b} In the seventh honse ts Saturn, here also the eighth ford In the 
seventh house being aspected by Mars. 
Analyse it from the Moon also 
(a} The seventh lord Venus from Scorpio {5 in the sixth house of 
disputes, 
(b) Mars, the sixth lord of disputes is in the seventh house. 
Now look at the transits of Saturn and Rahu, both afflicting the 
seventh and the eighth houses. 


192 


Astrology. Destiny 3nd the Wheet of Time ASTROLOGY AMD PSYCHOLOGY 


The navamsha was also analysed. No details are bdng 
revealed. 

Was her marriage collapsing? Jf yes, divorce alone was the 
solution* She divorced her husband and felt relieved* 


The Case of the Young Man 
1. The boy was running the period of the Moon which ts with Rahu 
and Is being aspected by Miars from the eighth house. 
1. It becomes a case of deep rreurosls, astrological fy. 
3. How was it manifesting? 
4. The Moon Is the sixth lord of aggression aspecting the ninth 
house, the father. 
5* Mars from the eighth house [s aspecting, Venus the ninth lord 
and the Sun the slgnificator of father. 
6. Mars alsa aspects the fourth lord, Venus representing mother 
and domestic happiness. 
7* Mars also aspects the Moon, the Slgniftcator of the mother. 
Was the boy showing aggression towards his father and also 
making hls mother very uncomfortable? 
That was the problem precisely. 


& — & 


Counselling 

Now look at the dasha scherne. The Moon is In the third house 
and the period of the Moon will be followed by that of Mars, the 
third lord in the eighth house- 

But was the young man behaving properly outside thé house? 

Yes, was the answer. - 

See the aspect of Jupiter on the tenth house from the ascendant 
and also from the Moon. 

No psychiatric treatment was working. 


[9] 


ASTROLOGY ANT PSYCHOLOGY AGU ogy, Destiny ani io Venda of Timo 


Ties advice given was, fees the young man some where 
outside the house. The Tan > stavs in rhe house tegreater will 
lien dtl. aggressiveness, 

ftm, malady f§ tw? curable. 

The young man wei «fob outside the dty where hls parents stay 
ariel his: malady Is ureter coruot. 

Pyschologists ire Tn the sxcellen, hablt of producing their 
researches and getting them discussed while astrologers hardly do 
any research and what they do in the seminars they attend to deliver 
some loose general talk and «attack the scientists for being antl- 
astrology, or boast abowi thelr greatness* 

In the Journal they edit, they report their speeches and show 
their photocs, to build up a high profile for themselves. So much of 
space Js wasted. Or they claim success for some mumbo-}umbo 
political predictions* 

Most of the astrologers are ill-read, Many ot them do not want 
ti: keep abreast of good findings of psychologists and sociologists 
which can help them understand a horoscope against the specific 
background of the! clenr. 

Astrology wlll always rentalre superior to psychology but the 
psychologist isa trained person while the astrologer may be # quack 
whith most of the astrologers are. 

There is lot of hope now as mareand more of elitist classes have 
stu led studying astrology. 

fn the forseeabfe future there willbe a very happy fusion of 
astrology and psychology. Then aid then atone will counselling have 
substance and meaning. 

What are astrologers doing t® produce tangible and Statistical 
researches to prove that astrology is far above physical sciences and 
cannot be a subject of examination In a physical laboratory? 

ft the treantimewe have been able to make an excellent break 
through in educational counselling based oan astrological analysis 
which ts specific and has given us more than eighty percent results 
so far in India, USA and England, 

This Is based on the analysis ofthe fifth house and the fifth lord, 
«x shown tn this book also. 

The analysis based on the faurttrhouse and tts lord as given fn 
the books of Dr. Raman gives no speteficresults. 

A major research on astrology and educational counselling may 
be mut after the Intensive and extensive research, which is being 
done now* by a group of over twenty tesearchers, is completed. 


is 


CHAPTER IV 


FORMULATING SOME 
ASTROLOGICAL PRINCIPLES 


SPECIALLY FOR POLITICAL CAREERS 


There are more professions, occupations, avecatfons and 
varlegated commercial pursults In post second world war period than 
ever before in the history of the world. 

Democracy, elected offices, the tensions of public life and the 
désire to enrer political ilfe after securing a monetary fortune* what 
ever be the means adopted, is commoner now than ever before bolh 
in Indian political life and In that of other counties. As democracies 
collapse and more and more dictatorship spring up in many more 
countries, the question bound to be asked [s, whether one can entet 
public and political fife and what wvill be the level one eat! expect to 
reach. 

To be able to meet thls demand, tet some principtes of Hindu 
astrology be tested, as they have been found to be the recurring 
principles found applicable to the horoscopes of world famous 
political figures. 


Principles 

1. Juplter’s association with the Sun {5 a well-known combination 
for royal dignity. 

2. Jupiter's conjunction with the Moon or the keneira position of 
Moon and Jupiter Is the well known gaja-kesatl Yoga. 

3. Saturn's role has to be emphasised as it represent power over 
masses, with ihe support of the masses, for service to the 
masses. Saturn's asseciatton with the tenth house or the tenth 
lord Is a well-known astrological principle for rise and fall in 


rus 


FORMULATING SOMEASTROLOGICAL _ Asbology, Deeitiry and tho Witnel of Tine 


public tife. 

4. The seat of power In astrology In represented by the fourth 
house whose association with pewer-giving or dignky-giving 
planets is praised in classical astrology” 

5. The houses of dignity, the flfin and the ninth, have their stetler 
role always. 


Timing the Event 

The most popular method employed Is the Vimshottari dasha 
with its sub-civiclons and transits of planets. 

[Fsuch transits are examined on ashtakavarga it 1s better. Much 
harder work Is needed to use ashtakavarga tn detail with elaboraté 
and hundred percent cafculatlons. 

There are many other methods In classical astrology which old 
and Veteran astrologers still use* They have to be learnt first, applled, 
tested through researches and then used. 

Combining the popular methods of locating raja-yogas and the 
tlme of their fructification wlth the subtler classical methods, seem to 
be going out of vogue and practice. That was a composite and 
comprehensive appreach which ts not being used here, since many 
readers may not understand them” 

Raja-yogas: must be examined In the horoscope of thas# as want 
to enter public offices, whether through elections or otherwise” 


INTRODUCTION OFTHE CONSULTOR 

Nearly mine years ago, In the year 1984, In Important indian,. 
very Intimate with me and depending on my astrological prediction 
every tle he was required to tal an haportantdecision* told me 
that he would bring someone* Who this someone was he told me 
thus, “fffs on the tnsistence of ft/s wife that f am doing it. His wife 
Is a very decent woman which is what | cannot say about ditt. But 
she Insisted that ? Inttaduce them to you, | promised to her that ¢ 
would, ~ 

And they came to my house with a computer cast horoscope. 


The VIP Known for his good manners felt them alone at my place and 
left. 


The Question 

| copied down the horoscope in my register and asked him. 
"whether he-had political ambitions agnd:whether he was thinking of 
taking early retirement from his service and going into poll tics.” 


146 


Astrology, Destiny and ihe Wheel al Time FORMULATING SOME ASTROLOGICAL _ 


He told me that he was not able to make up hts mind but the 
question uppermost In hls mind was precisely what 1 had said. 

He was then a high ‘ranking goverment officer in news those 
days, favourably written about In the national newspapers, and was, 
outrival ling hts colleagues, riding the crest of a wave* He had then 
political patronage of the Highest persons In the country and the 
favour of the mightiest Indian, Mrs, Indira Gandhi who was then the 
Prime Nilnlster of India. 

He had about three or four years of bureau tle Ife left before he 
reached his age of retirement after which his fe would be Ilke that 
of any other governement servant, a [life of idleness with handsome 
pension and nothing to All In hts empty hours wth. 

If he retired and succeeded] In politics his life would become 
meaningful. If he failed, all that he would have missed would be a 
promotion which could also be doubtful In future. Between the two, 
the fate entry Inte politics with the hope to succeed and continued 
humdrum of his bureaucratic Hfe, which one would be the correct 
decision astrologtcally, was what he wanted to know, 

Analysis ofthe horoscope 
The horoscope has manygood features: 

(a) There (§ an extracdinary exchange between his seventh lord, 
lupiter and the ninth lord, Venus, constituting a raja-yoga of a 
high position In (Ife. The ninth lord in fils seventh house exalted 
had given firm a wife from a much higher social stratum’ with lot 
of wealth éf herown. The seventh lord witit the tenth lord and 
Sun had given him a high status in govermentservice. 

(b) From the Moon and tenth house is extraordinarily strong with 
Juplter and Mercury, two benefics with the Sun In a fixed house 
giving hima long and successful career. 


Birth 


Horoscope 


FORMULATING SOME ASTROLOGICAL .. Astrology. Destiny and the Wheel of Tims 


fc) Exalted Venus, his ninth ford (luck) was vargottama being In the 
same house in navamsha. 


Navomeha 

fit ‘thé Navamishathe striking points are: 

(a} The ninth house contains exalted and vargottam Venus. Here 

' Yenus is the fourth ford, which fs political horoscopes shows 
legislative or parliamentary careers. 

(b) Mercury, the tenth lord ofthe birth horoscope was In Leo which 
fs a gaod house for royal favours. 

(c) As in the birth horascope, so in navamsha Jupiter and Sun were 


~~ aoe 
s 
Navamsha 


together, again showing a dignified aristocratic level of sése in 
lifé, supporting and strengthening the promise of the 
horoscope. 
Dasharnishe 
In the dashamsha which should be seen for special opportunities 
for rise in one's career, the following points deserve notice; 


Atirobygy, Gestuy and life Witcsel of Tima FORMULATING SOME ASTROLAGILAL 


(a) Mercury as tenth lord, wasexalted th the tenth House. 

(G) Juplter and Sun were again together though here Jupiter got 
debliitated and joined ihe company of Rahu, which ts good for 
politics tn which there should be witting infraction of normat 
scruples of centduct, 

(c) But Jupiter's aspect on the tenth house and the tenth lord 
Mercury, which 1s also the seventh lord would ensure a good 
and dignified image as a politician. 


Hope end Fears 

lFhe Jumped into politics and fallec. what he would sulfer would 
be not any monetary loss but of prestige. His colleagues, friends and 
family members would make fun of him, even ridicule him lor a 
foolhardy decision. 

Even if he were given a ticket by rhe political party he warned 
to jain, he might not succeed In winning an election where voters 
would be illiterate and semi-IHerature masses, mostly to attract 
wham. he had to be a demagogue which he was nat, Rabbie-rousing 
speeches were totally alien to his discipline of a life-time. 

Worse still, [fhe resigned and was nor given an opportunity to 
contest elections ar all, he would become a butt of every one’s 
ridicule. 


The PredictonGien: Reasons 

He was passing through tive inafer period of Ralwi in the eighth 
house but In house of Mars, ffieeighth Aquse, being the hpuse of 
Intrlaues, ts good for i politician wha must be capable of tndulying 
in intrigues. 

The sul-perlod was of Mercury, (he tenth lord, with fupler, te 
fourth lord, the house of panlament with Wie Sun representing ray. 
diginity. 

In the navamsha Rahu was in tie sixth house of light fefections 
and Mercury in the second house (gains) was ninth formn the nmtajor 
dasha-lord, Rahu. 

In the dasamsa again Rahu was whh Jupiter. 

The crucial question was whether political career was indicated 
at all, 

Far political life where elections are to be fought bygoing to tne 
masses with a begging bowl far votes. Saturn ts the most fmpontartt 
planet. Here Sarmurn, the sixth tard (fight) in the fourth house 
(parliament} was aspecting the tenth house of career. 


FORMULATING SOME ASTROLOGICAL ,,, Astrology, Destiny and tha Whaat of Time 


There is another cruclat factor to be cansidered, In breaking 
away from a Set pattern In{o another paitern of career, there must be 
a ‘bredk” represented by either the eighth lord or a planet tn the 
eighitt house. 

To, represent change, the twelfth ferd must intervene. Here 
Meniiy the tenth lord both Inthe birth horoscope and the dasarnsha 
chart 1& the twelfth lord In navamsha. Inthe birth horoscope Mercury 
the sub-dasha period is associated with the Sun, the twelfth lord. 
Rahu the lord of the major dasha, is in He eighth house in the birth 
horoscope. 


Transit. of Planets 

Flections, if was expected, would be held in the last week of 
December 1984 when Satu? would be tn Sceéreplo aspecting the 
tenth lord. Mercury, of the birth horoscope. Jupiter would be In 
Sagittarius* aspecting the tenth tiouse. The crucial transit of both 
Saturn and Jupiter would “thus be highly favourable, 


Sub-Sub-porlod 

At tiie time of @factfan tile dasha periods would be Raht-- 
Mercury-Venus and Venus Is exalted and vargottamas the lord of the 
ruintit house. 

Everything appeared to be favourable and ! advised him to take 
retirement from goverment service and plunge Into politics* 

He submitted hls letter of resignation which would be accepted 
sometime In November |984. But ar the end of October, 1984 Indira 
Gandhi, the then prime minister of India was shot dead. His wife 
asked me If ste should ask her husband to withdraw his letter of 
resignation which he could do. | told her that my astrological 
prediction was unchanged as | found everything favourable, Indira 
Gandhi or no Indira Gandhi, 


Result 

He fought the elections, won, become a minister Ln the central 
goverment In the beginning of 1S8Sand continued Hil 1989, which 
was one ‘year more titan what would have been his offical 
bureaucratic life IFhe had not resigned: 


Notable Astrological Principles 
{a} The peried of the lard of lagna or the tenth house Isa favourable 
peticd tfsuch a lord is not weak or afflicted as In this case, 


Ai 


Astrology. Destiny and lie Wheel of Time FORMULATING SOME ASTROLOGIGAL ... 


{b}) The sub-sub period of Venus exalted and vargottama was the 
best tlme to enter public life as a politician, 


JOHN KENNEDY OF U.S.A. 

The broad pattern of anyone's Hfe will emerge out of a bare 
horoscope without even the degrees of planets, An astrolgoer 
should ask some questions on the basis of a mere horoscope after 
the consultor has given a briefest background about himself—briefest 
is the primary principle to be stressed. 

He should then proceed without using the Vimshottari major 
period to time events by merely looking at factors of speed imsome 
areas and delay in some areas, like marriage, children, career 
patterns and put hls own analysis and question. 

About ten questions is what the astrologer should be able to 
put Six of them should be correct, at least. Only then he should 
accept the horoscope as correct. 

The horoscope given here was made use of by Dr. B.¥. Raman 
for successful predictions, A friends who collected It from a 


NK 


Birth Chart 
John Kennedy 
May 29, 1917 

45:01 Hrs. 


Planet House Degrees 


Vimsholtart Dasha Scheme 


Sun Taurus __15°08' 
Moon Leo 24°30) 
Mars Aries 25°43 


Mercu Aries 27°93" 
Jupiter Taurus 0°20" 
Venus Taurus 24X02" 
Satum Cancer 4°27’ 
Rahu Sagittarius 18°32" 
Ketu Gemini 18°32’ 
Lagna Virgo 27°37" 


5 29 
3 30 
[Sun 19268 29 
‘(Moon _1986 8 29 | 
‘TMars 19438 29 | 
8 29 
17 
29 


1 
t 


Rahu 1961 


|| Jup-Jupiler 1963 10 


4| Jup-Satum 1966 4 


20) 


FORMULATING SOME ASTROLOGICAL ... Astrology. Dastny and thy Whedl of Tima 


Dasamsha 


European tour recently got me the same horoscope with the 
degrees assuring me that it was completely authentic* 


Verification of a Political Horoscope 

An American astrologer, the late Sahara Cameron had once 
written in the Astrological Magazine that getting correct horoscopes 
of American Politicians was as difficult as anywhere else in the wozid. 
It is a very risky area. Publicity-hungry astrologers and ‘pop’ 
astrologers do met hesitate to Jump to their own conclusions to 
pronounce their judgements, which newspapers wanting sensational 
predictions, make use of. 

Even serious researchers, given little time, are sometimes asked 
by newspaper men to give their predictions on doubtful horoscopes. 
Two or three times, I committed this mistake and two or three time 
I too have burnt my fingers* Alf that 1 can say Is a high percentage 
of my predictions given on the basis of mundane horoscopes have 
come out correct. Predictions given on the basls of Individual 


202 


Astiotogy, Oeabny ard tie Whe ot Time FOR MULATING SOME ASTROLOGICAL — 


horoscopes of pativclans have s]ven me lot of torments sometimes. 
bdo not accept apultteal horoscope unless political and non-political 
horoscpes are eater! as similar for the purposes of verification. 

How wuiel why shqule t then accept the horoscope of Kennedy 
ta be camect? ut then some non-political events of Kennedy could 
be verlflecl, \ decided. 1 proceeded to note down, with my 
astrological analysis some events. 

(a) Brothers and sisters* 

He has to have many brothers and sisters* could be more 
than seven. 

{b} The third lord Mars In tse eighth 18 good In being in his own 
house $ut is aspected by Saturn from the eleventh house, Ail 
ihat } know of Is a younger brother of hls who was a 
presidential candidate was killed, like him. Another younger 
brother who too might have made a cenlfic race for US. 
presidentship contest got involved in A car accident and 
something happened, and we went out ofthe prestigious race 
for the tapmos: poss in USA. 

{c) His own assassination !s clear from rhe horoscope* 

(cd) There are some points here which needed some clarification. 
The eleventh house has Saturn aspected by Mars and fn 
drekkana the eleventh house receives malefic aspects of the Sun 
from the fifth house and, worse, of Mars from the eleventh 
house. It denotes something tragic for his elder brothers and 
sisters. Was tt correct? 

(e} Many of these events shoud have happened tm the dasha of 
Rahu {1943-1961}, 


His Death 
He died tn Juplrer-Saturn-Saturn, which ts perfectly (n harmony 
with the prindples of Hindu astrology* 


Marriage 

There must have been itt of delay fn hls marriage* Many factors 
present hefe would have made it a no-mamlage horoscope but an 
excellent Venus with Jupiter, (ne seventh lord and unafMeted seventh 
house does promise mariage. 

The navamsha !s alse nor promising early marriage with both 
the twelfth house and Venus being afflicted here, 


=O) 


FORMULATING SOME, ASTROLOGICAL Astrology. Destiny and ihe, \Woaolk bf Tune 


Pattern of education 
There is so much variety In education patterns Im USA that as 
an Indian, 1 have found ft difficult to lit it into the limited Indian 
pattern known to us fn India. Yet palttical science, sociology and taw. 
It Is broadly the humanities group of education and not science. 
The ! collected some Inforrmation from some sources; 
(a) The Kennedy Lagaty by Sorensen 
It give me no dates but something of both brothers, /hon and 
Rebert Kennedy's* 
(b) John — Kennedyby Hugh Sidey 
i ralso gave me no dates but some Insight into (he political 
economic thinking of John as president and hls style of functioning, 
{c} | then got some valuable dates from Encyclopaedia Brittanica 
which have been more useful from my point of vlew. 1 noted 
them down and proceeded to verlfy these events In the life of 
lhon Kennedy, These dates are: 
{1} Joseph (#915) was hls elder brother who was killed in 1944 
In the second world war. 
{2) john Kennedy whose date of birth } have ls May 29, 1917. 
(3) Rosemary (sister) (1918) was mentally defective. Her husband 
Was killed In the second world war and she afso dled after 
some years. 
(4) Kathleen (sister 1920) 
(5) Eunice (sister, 192%} 
{G) Patrica (sister, 1924} 
(7) Robert (brother, 1925} kifed In 1969, 
(8) jean (sister, 1928) 
(9) Edward (brother, 1932) 


Marriage 
His, marriages took place on September I2, 1953, 


Father 

joseph P- Kennedy his father (1888-3969) was a mutlti- 
millionaire, the first American-lish ambassador of USA to England 
and had made fortunes from stocks and shares which he got 
outlawed later, under the administration of Franldlm D* Roosevelt* 

His father got formed trusts for each of children wlth millions of 
dollars and did not allow small talk at the dinner table where they 
had to discuss national and Internationa! events after reading the 
New York Times and other important newspapers. 


204 


Astrotegy, Destay and the VWited of Time FORMULATING SOMASTROLOGICAL .. 


The training and competitive sprrit of fis <¢hildrert was 
encourage, 

Two other boats: John F Kennedyand a New Generation by 
Gayid Burner gave us no valuable dates for the purpose of 
astrological research and father and finer verification of non-polltleal 
events, 

The second book: Te Torch Is Passed by David Burner and 
Thomas R West gives ns 1953.as the year of marriage. 


Features of dive Horoscopes 

On the basis of those scanty Information what we see first of all 
Is that the lagna lord, Mercuy, ts int eighth house with Mars and Is 
aspected by Saturn, tt ig double affiictinn cawsea to the lagna lord 
which (s showing a lingering, Incurable fitness. Saturn's aspect as 
sixth lord on the lagna confirms it, Jahn had back paln form his 
childhood and tn 1944, Im Rahu-Raliu when he got [nto the navy to 
light fy World War-ii, he was acclaimed as a national hero when his 
“shrewd efforts to save hls crew won him front page headlines jn 
American papers.” He was also honoured for this. 

During this pedod his elder brother. whom the father, wanted to 
be the first in the famlly to be in the race For the presidentship of USA 
got killed In the war. Saturn fn the elevetithhouse aspected by Mars 
and In the period af Rahu whict: ts tile sixttt house from the eleventh 
house confirms the event. 

But tn Rahu-Rahu his lingering back pain was acute. He had a 
major operation, which was performed twice more in $952 and 
1953 when the period of Mercury in the major period of Rahu, 
showed an afflicted body, needing care. 

We have no details but ft appears that three children: could have 
been born wht one of them not surviving. 

His mariage 1953 witt Jupiter in Taurus on his seventh lord 
aspecting his lagna and in the period of Rahtu-Mercury is in 
accordance wth the classical principles of classical astrology, 
Mercury sub-period had to prove significant for him as both as the 
lagna lord and the tenth lord it gavefiim a rise. Including his great 
victory over Henry Cabot Lodge in (P52, 

in Rahu-Mays he won the prsidential race defeating Nixon by a 
narrow margin. The importance of the eighth house and here with 
the tenth lord explains ithe evant, 


205 


FORMULATING SOME ASTROLOGICAL .. Astrology, Destiny and lan Wonol of Time 


Applications of the Principles Formulated 
Having «tone this verificatton. we will now proceed to apply the 
ptlnetples formulated. 


jupiter-Sun connection 

Jupiter with the Sun and Venus Jn the house of luck, the ninth 
shows both a prosperous father and his own raj-lakshana (royalty) 
yoga. The Kennedys fn USA. Ilke the “NehruByaasty"in India, were 
those cultist figures who were romanticized by a public which 
perhaps hungers for the sight of a substitute royalty Jn the absence 
of 4 traditional monarchy as In Engtand. 

The Navamsha lagna ISvargottama and Jupiter in the fifth house, 
though debilltared, is In a house aspecting vargottama Sun In the 
ninth house* 

ln the dashamsha there Is no Jupslter-Sun connection butthe Sun 
aspects Mars in the eleventh house* But the Sun under three malefic 
Influences, Including Mars, does show danger to his posttion. 


Saturn and tenth house or lord 

In the birth horoscope Saturn aspects the tenth lord. In 
Navamsha Saturn does not get connected with the tenth house or 
the tenth lord but aspects the Sun in the ninth house. 

In dashamsha Saturn again aspects’the Sun but does not touch 
the tenth house or the tenth dara, 


The fourth House and the Fourth lord 

tt was In the dasha of Rahu jn the fourth house thar he had the 
best of his career and was elected fo the highest‘post In U.S.A. The 
fourth lord Jupiter is involved It rajfa-fakshana yoga as shown already. 


The Raohu-Ketu axis 

The planet Rahu is the planet of unarthodexy, unscrupulous. 
behavious, non-cenformism, opportunism, secret or open desire for 
“sinning” giving to one a degree of such shameproof behavlous 
without which one may not succeed in political fife. 

tn the case ofthose who become prime minister it wil be seen 
that Saturn's rale is more prdominant while in the case of presidenis 
Jupiter has an equally significant role or even more prominent role 
than Saturn's. 


ang 


Astrology, Destiny and the Wheel of Tinto FORMULATING SOME ASTRGLOGHIAL . 


Timing the Event 

In 1960 when Kennedy fought the election for the post of 
president of USA he was passing through the major period of Rahu 
In the fourth hause, which is Sagittarius, the kodanda house, the seat 
of power* Rahu oF Saturn In the houses of Jupiter or Mercury, both 
dual signs, are actually good according to the Uttara-Kalamrita, a 
classical work on astrology by Kallclasa. 


Sub-periad of Mars 

Mars is with the tenth lord but in the eighth house, A case of 
sudden opportunities and sudden tosses. 

Mars is aspected by Saturn, the fifth and the sixth lord Satyr, 
his enemy. Since it $s happening Im the eight house, it must show 
Intiigues against him. 


Transit af Planets 

Borth Saturn and jupiter were im Sagittarius on November 5, 
1960, aspecting the tenth house of Kennedy ‘ensuring hfs victory* 
Mars then was In-Gemini his tenth house while Moon was in Taurus. 
the tenth from his natal Moon 1m Leo. All excellent. 


Next Desha 

The next dasha was going to be of Jupiter, a Kller for Virgo and 
also the seventh in order, Jupiter-fuptter was over on October 17, 
i963. Entered the period of Saturn who has Joined the conspiracy 
being hatched In his eight house. He was killed* 


rilrg 


CHAPTER V 
CONCLUSION 


araita sitetftae faera jar cemnfa atsqafin 
aa catty fara seats safe aa seth 


Vasansi Jeemant Yotha vihays, Navant Grinnati Naro Aparani 
Tatha Sharesani Yihaya JeermaniAmyant Sanyatl Navani Dehi 
The GIA, 1-22. 

“As man casts off old dethes and wears new ones in the same 
way the sou) leaves tts ofd physical frames and enters new ones.” 

An asttaloger who does not belleve in transmigration of souls, 
in the cycle of births and rebirths, the results of karmas and the 
Karma-phafas and karrta-samskaras as exptalned earller, has warped 
intelligence and perverted mind, The ancient Indian belief in rebirths,. 
explained repeatedly in the holy books of India and tn the Hindu, [ain 
and Buddhistic literature has acquired and received scientific validity 
through the researches of Dr. lan Stevenson and others. Such 
researches wefe necessary for the warped intelligence of the physical 
scientists and astronomers whose arrogant ignorance has been the 
biggest handicap in the formation of a holistic approach to Hfe, all 
over the world. 

The world we live In cannot be a less strfe-torn place unless we 
accept along with the philosophy of material success, necessary for 
the prosperity of Individuals and nations, the darshan shastra 
(darshan Is realisation, not philosophy as used In the western 
countries) of Indla which many centuries before Christ had already 
the finest basis for harmonious and holistic view of Ilfe. IF India 
degenerated In the years of her slavery, she still could keep alive her 
resurgent spirit of Innate spirituality because of her most fortunate 
unweitren chapter of histery—the unending One of great saints, 
unpublidsed and anonymous. 


208 


Asimogy, Gestny ord ine Vetieed fl Tine CONCLUSION 


The saints are world's finest reformers because they destroy the 
dogma of religion which can otherwise turn fundamentalist. Saints 
bring out the resplendent essence of spirituality which Is the ultimate 
atm of a tiie religion. Were all the citizens of the world to become 
only Hindus, anly Muslims, or only Christians, this planet would still 
not become a less strife-torn place because conversions have been 
impertal policies or a religious fundamentalist's perversion, True 
saints purify without any outward conversions* They show the 
method of developing Inne! strength through proper spiritual 
practices. A discipte so purifled, even partly, experiences blissful 
peace of mind, with his outer world still remaining strfe-torn, 

Many of these great saints have been excellent astrologers 
before they developed spiritual powers which made astrology a 
redundant pursuit for chem, Bur they always encouraged others 
doing astrology because they know that astrology provides In-sleht 
Into the tote! personality of 4 person, at the physical, emotional. 
intellectual and spiritual substrata of his personality. Such total view, 
together with their holistic view of the world we flve In, alone is the 
true method of promoting harmony and peace, 

How an astrologer can have such a total view will be explained 
im another book on astrological methods of counselling. It th!s book 
different facets and different events have been given as case studies. 
The steps an astrologer can follow step by step could be samerhing 
Ike the following : 

(a) Prepare astrological data accurately and fully 

(b) Note its positive and negative points. 

{ce} Fined out the planutary patterns which reveal inany mysterious 
twists of Ife, 

(d) Then time the events on the basis of the Vimshortai dasha 
going down upto the pratyantar dashas, 

Astrology will this reveal the pattern of an Indlvicual’s destiny 
and the dasha ‘will show the gyrations of the wheel of tlme. 

Anyone who goes to consult an asttologer should approach him 
with respect but never a total belief In hls ability to predict anything 
and everything comectty, Till we starred Our classess under the Indian 
Council of Astrological Sciences, there existed no popular, non- 
classical tnethiod, yet torelly modern, of giving (nstructions in 
astrology. Mast of the astrologers, even int India, Wrland of astrology, 
know only some tudimerts of the subject, But tn the era:of high-tech 
publicity, some of them, a stenographel or a camupt dismissed lower 
division clerk, can start an astrological journal and begin m9 ‘sel 


pi 


CONCLUSION Astrotagy, Oesuiny pnd tno Wheol ef Ta 


boost* theitselves. How should anyone who wants an astrological 
guidance approach an astroteger in our complex times? Tills can be 
dene tH us: 

(v) Tell Alea, iFyour binh dme ls correct and whether the horoscope 
you. have got cast Is accurate, and according to Ils 
specifications, 

(b)' Assure him that the horoscope fs of a person living, not that of 
a twin, Disclose the sex always. 

{4} Then see how me astrologer works. If reveals good deal about 
him. Since most of tie astrologers are greedy and fraudulent, 
one has to be ecsrelul not to disclose too much about oneself. 

(d) Let the astrologer thes: trace out himself, without your helping, 
some past events by writing them down on a paper and hand 
ft over to you, Do nai accept an astrologer unless he gives fils 
readings ts) writing. if you are satisfied now witir his ability, then 
pose a question or two, without walling. 

{ej Now ask the astrologer to give to you In writing future 
predictions. Insist on lt, If te Is a professional astrologer 
charging a fee, 

{I} Do naz accept an astrologer who suggests remetiia] measures 
without first convincing you that hls astrological ability 1s sound 
enough. 

‘Corning back to the question, whether destiny exlsts, ask an 
astrologer to write down the events of a native's life. without having 
to be tldl anything about it. 

Remember the golden principi@—an astrologer who cannot 
plek cut your problem from your (horoscope without your having to 
tell him, Is Incampetent; an astrologer who ls not putting down in 
writing his predictions, after charging you a fee, may be a-cheat. He 
is Ike a doctor who does not know how to diagnose a disease but 
still prescribes nedicines. Such astrological quacks ate too many in 
the big dries of India* 

1 invariably type out my readings for foreigners and ask them to 
put their remarks against them. | have more than two hundred such 
collections with me but 1 have not taken permissions ‘from them to 
use them in my books. Yet one of my books being published In USA, 
Successful Predictive Techniques of Yedlc Astrology by the Passage 
Press, Salt Lake Cty, Utah, contains the acknowledgment by a 
German with his address about such readings. Tills book contains 
two such reading of two ladies who allowed me to use them without 
disclosing their names. 


770 


Astrology, Desiiny and tha Wheel of Time CONCLUSION 


So let this book conclude with a recent reading 1 gave to an 
American lady who knows both Western and Hindu astrology, 

An American Lady Doing Hindu Astrology 

She told me on phone on the night of April !3, 1993 that her 
own computer-cast horoscope (Chitrapaksha Ayanamsha or Lahiri's) 


Leq Ven Jup Sun Fer 
1as 2529 Wer | tAart firitf 


An American Morarav' 
Lady Keitir2¢ 


_ [June 24, 4953 
Rani0°24] 4:03 am, EOT 


a 7 
| 
Sun Van Lag Ke) Sat 


is in U.S.A. But someone In Haridwar cast her horoscope. Ske 
dictated It to me on phone* 
To vetify the correctness, some reading are being given* 
Please write your remarks against each point. 
General Trends 
1. Your horoscope Shows interests in classical knowledge, religious in 
content, of ancient countries, and non- American. 


one FOS, 
2. Spiritual hankering is genuine. 
°*. Hope Sol 


3. You should Rave learnt.already some language other than English 
also, read astrology well, towards which your attraction must 


211 


CONCLUSION Asizohgy. Deeiny and the Wlical af Tene 


Jtave become deeper in your Mercury mahadasha between 1973 
and 1490, 
.... Spanish and little Hindi, Discovered Vedic Astrotogy March ‘84. 
4. Yout hotascope also shows that you may have been initiated 
Spatula ly ac si 4 een deeds Seatac etthotad Kriya yoga dikstia 8/81 
5, The horoscope does not promise much of married life, but 
marriage must have taken place once and also the divorce without 
sany children. 
.... 2 short marriages 72-75 and 79-83, yes sterile. 
6. Your father way have been an iiporlant wat. outside your 
country sometime or the other. 
.... Engineer & inventor horn tt Austria politically against Nazis in 
his country. 
7, At the time of your birth your mother may have undergone some 
dgifficutties which can include even surgical operation. 
a. Hemornige treated with drug & rest 
&. Since ~ have not seen you, I see from your horoscope that your 
eyesight may have become weak already and you may be wearing 
spectacles. 
.... Contacts or glasses very nearsighted. 
At one time you had a job which involved touring. 
.... Mo but moved frequently.& many jabs. 
Your job can aha relate to a religious work after which only 
astrelagy may have interested you, 
..../ did volunteer work & teaching for SRF. meditation society. 
1t. Ycur parents* it appears, do not belong to Lhe same country or 
your mother tata from a fet-offplace, even if both of your parents 
are us citizens. 
seoe Bath fort Vienna, Austria. 
12, There will be inside you an imrestible tendency to settle down and 
do work outside you country* 
Yerfication ; some events 
!. Very soort after your birth your mother may have developed some 
health troubles which may have pioved difficult. 
__Uncertain but had breast infection & asthmatic. 
Very-early in childhood, «vhem you were one or tven years old you 
have had to move to another place, even a foreign country* 
*, Age 3 mother took taAustria for a year. 
1356-57 marks a change in you hfe. 
ene Ot Europe W/ofather. 
A. In 1957-58 there is attraction far fine arts. 


‘oO 
4 


= 


N 


baa 


Wz 


Asteaiogy, Baciny and the Wheel of Tne CONCLUAON 


5, 


6. 


T* 


Q* 


10 


11. 


.... Household, musxic¢. 

Tn 1957-59 seams to be a Vary significant year for yau father. 
.... Job transfer ta West Coust 

1959- 60 there is change In your educational institutions or wwe 
course of study. There is alsa spell of illness or accident. 

eek end injury, 

Between the ages of twelve and sixteen you do well in studies, 
changing your tourse of studies suddenly and even getting 
interested in the study of a. lartyuage. 

sowe YS, interestinGennen, Spanish writing. 


. At the age of sixteen you are attracted towards one who was 


artistic and important in hts field. 

eas Yes, hut left country, 

From 1969 economics, commerce, astrology, occult begins to.gnp 
your attention. 

.... Interest in Eastern religion, miuste £ journalism. 

When yau were eighteen years there is possibility of your taking 
up a job and also inheriting some property, 

....Got marmed & Came ta India. No, 

But at the age of nineteen you distinguish in studies or get 
appointed to a post in which teaching may have part of your job. 
yoo, HO. 

There is s0in& operation iti abdomen also at tlie ate or sickness 
of the stomach, 

+10: Radiation treatment to cervix Sutemsngninst Cancer, 

You may even marry between the ages of twenty two and twenty 
four. 

.... Married age 18. April 1972. 


. For ten or eleven years from the age of twenty five you mny have 


visited many countries, gat very feeply interested fn astrology 

(1978 onwards}, but during the same period someone's sickness 

even death affects you (before 19B8-85), 

seas Age 49-20 travel ta India & remained 7 months while husband 
studied music. Astrology ; unsure when began but studied 
western astrology. Mother dies “79. Father dies "89 - more 
affected at his passing, 


. In 1989 you were in love with someone. 
. In 1999 you became important professionally* 


aaalta professional success but SRF recognizes for teaching. 
In. 1991 there is both ‘nhertance of property and some 
complications* 


CONCLUSION Astrology, Daaliny and tins Wiel fit Tima 


.... da. Won taw suits 6/92..Nia property tittle S from inheritance. 

18. From 1992 October you must have been touring awtside your 
country which may continue till June or July 1993* 
vos Yes but began tour Sept, End likely ir May. 

19, You want to qo back and start something on bigger scale. 

.. Interested in buying tand for small conununity or ashrant. 

20; Some misunderstanding with person you have been in love with 
recently is taking a had turn and may end up in breaking of 
relationship. 

-« Broke up with man whe wanted marriage 10/91. Ne current 
relationship 

21* Some abrupt change that came Into your Life professionally in 
1989 will get repaired after malting some new stark 
.... End of 8889 came to university to work at medical college as 

Secretary. 

Education: Yeur education tan be both in your own country and or 
even in foreign countries, You have interest in languages, arts, 
history, psychology, philosophy in one of which you may have 
qualified. 

*ee BA. Spanish May 1983. Began mae serious study of Jyotishin 
1999. 

Property: There is inheritable property but ‘not without disputes. 
sue SISter got property. 

Brothers: Sisters: you can have three brothers and sistezs with you 
either becoming either the first or last among girls or even alLof 
them. 

.... Garther ; 3, Sisters : 2, famyoungest sister. 

Children: You have either not conceived if you did either there was 
miscarriage or you got it terminated, 

.... Sterile due to radiation treatment fer reproductive Cancer. 

Spixituality: Either there is a lack of desire to load the noumal life of 
a house wife or your spiritual inclinations were bom of some 
unhappy experiences of childhmod, and, later in your 
relationships. 
woos Yes; Yes. 

Jobs: There is visible a tendency to change jobs a little too often before, 
now. settling down in one place with one work where your 
earnings come, From psychical-curative, work-or commerical arts. 
oose Always Uncertain as to career & earning low tamoderate enjoy 

college studies, Strong interest in natural cures. Ayurveda & 
Chinese Medicine. Secretariat & Computer. 


2u 


Astrology, Destiny and the ¥rhact ot Time CONT LYSION 


Meida, Communication: Media, vonuiuinicauions, TV. ote. and even 
wrting, jounalism will always attract you* You can write well, 
author some books which yau have either already done or want 
to do savy. 

.... Tried writiag for navies, IV, but tack confidence. Yes, wanted 
to get degree in journalism but have in Spanish, Want to write 
book about spiritual commmunites In U.S. 

Accident Preneness: You may have ta be careful about vehicular 
accidents. 

.... Yes* many small accident csp. on bicyele. 

Skin Trouble: Skin trouble or allesgy will trouble you sometime OT the 
other. 
wu Both-stice teenager eceemarash, Cmidhaad “inayfever’. allerg 

to Cats. 


Mainly accurate but believe dates somewhat advanced. Hirthtime 
may not &e accurate. 

Without revealing myidentify, any of my camitents may deused In 
a book or publication, including my birth chart. 


Special Wore 
(Since you do astrology same combinations In your horoscope 
need good understanding by gening your feedback, in (inure, and 
back-feed for what has happened In the past,] 
1. Your relations with your father bordes) on slumormality. comment 
on it. 
saz My father diagnosed as bordertine psychosis, Ke would not 
knowhow to exchange ideas & would lecture* He often was 
depressed and took drugs. He had no religious belief but was 
a scientist, Uatil I was 6-7 years atd T loved him very much. 
But at birth of brother he ignored me. There may have been 
some sexual abuse because lates he behaved badly with his 
granddaughter. 1 have noe memory but it would ‘probably 
happened befare birth of brother. 
2. You may have done syne work jointly with a sister, pr brothes 
earned well and then patted company. 
+o No bat eldest sister is poet and university teacher and 
encourages me to do translation work at university. 
es. Brother has helped me with money for car in past. 
.... We don’t have much contact, any of a5 4. 
3. You have quarrelled quite often whenever, employed and given uy 


a4 


CONCLUSION tawotoay, Oesfiny acd the Wihenl of Tire 


jobs, 
sue YOu, often Heed! Lastjab I disagreed with boss in insurance 
company. He sided with party at fault in accident because they, 
of 2, owned more insurance. 
A, Sncéh-quarrets involva some non-American guru also. 
sueht attempting to live by my guru's teachings, I have made 
mistake. of getting angry or righteous. Guru is Bengali 
Paramahansa Yogananda & his successor is American - Daya 
Ma. 
5. Who among your close ielatioms had either a very non-normal 
Mamiage with peculiarly violent turn of events? 
sus Ofy, brother married a nurse 17 years older after he fell down 
and suffered batl head injury. 
Some Subile Paints in Your Horoscope 


{Give your comment® on the Following points | your 

horoscope} 

L. Scholarship, knowledge of many subjects and a deeper desire to 
acquire depth tn thei and not temaiit shallow is evident. 
so Enjoy studies especially fo religion and psychology but diffeulty 

staying with one subject. Exception is I've studied yoga and 
meditation techniques of ray gum since 1979. 

2* Clever in.speech with a terrible wandes-lust but not able to resist 
the temptation to uttey faGeliood and take advantage 1s what you 
have done mary times. 

-.- Can he witty at Himes, Do love travel especially to walk aad 
camp in mountains and natural places. As child often lied’ 
exagerated about my deeds and also stole money from my 
mother and things from stores until taking up yaga- 

3, There até some wounds in your body whose marks remain 
physically. You can apd do attempt. to overcame sexual 
temptations. If true, is it the result of some sexual trauma? 

.... Yeas, fore shortened Vagina due to scars fron radition Has 
made sexual intercaurse painful* 

4. You have a stionq desire to be recognised and honoured for what 
you do and have been successful also, 

.... Yes, in that I display a tendency to want to influence other 
people sometimes through whatf do, too often by what i say 
alonel 

5* You have acquired a tendency to be self-controlled but believe in 
Keeplitg your ¢arnings.and wealth ‘in secret places or do not want 
this to be disclosed to anyone. Sectetiveness about money is the 


lit 


hstrdogy, Cesiny and lhe Wheel at Time CONCLUSION 
striking tendency, 
we Actually I've been warned nat to talk about lawsuit settlement 
by many people and J thi:k it good advice but I have already 
told too many people! 

6. There is innate humility as far as your own learning of any subject 
is concerned but you are net likely to concede easily that the 
persons you meet doing, say, astrology or the subjects you know 
are deep and impeasive. 

.. Yes; I ¢an be very skeptical of so-called experts. I feelthat the 
term “Age of Liars” (Kati yuga) applies to most* Even well- 
meaning, people easily overlook whatever conflicts with theit 
viewpoint. 


After having readings and studying both Tropical and Hindu 
astrology. f can only recommed Hindu astrology. fn itself I find 
Hindu astrology more accurately describes the personality and 
physical characteristics. It also offers remedies for difficult 
Placements and conditions. However, itis atool and it depends en 
the practitioner's talents. Therefore, a highly intuitive tropical 
ustrolyger will make accurate predictions even using western 
methods. 


tI7 


Appendix I 


From the Second Edition 

The response to the book has been great. [In USA they 
described Jt as the best book on Hindu astrology to have come from 
India* 

‘A question 1 was asked was: Had [ not suppressed something 
in my books, "Maneis and Children’. | sald: Yes. The reason Is, 
astrology can become, and is. abusable knowledge, therefore, In 
writing these books we are showing how  sclentifically the 
techniques of Hindu astrolagy wotk and are, at the same time 
avolding some of those polnts as can become abusable. 

Readers must remember that the ayanamsha vsed here is the 
China paksha ayanamsha (Lahirt’s). In) my book ‘Planets and 
Children’, | have shown by using the Saptamsha, the divisional chart 
used for ptediciing events about child birth and other children- 
related problems and the chitra paksha ayanamsh why _ that 
ayanamsha atone can be made use of for higher researches. tn that 
book | have taken up the horoscope of Dr. B.Y. Raman himself and 
have shown how my research on children becomes applicable only 
IF the Chitra paksha ayanamsha Is used. { have also spoken the bitter 
truth Im may book, “Astrological Journey through Histery, Mystery 
and Horoscope” that Yukteshwara being used in the U.S.A. by David 
Frawley 43 his book "Astrology ofSeers" Is totally uUnseclentific and 
David's use of Herschel, Pluto and Neptune Is not the astrology of 
seers* 

In §994, & meering of Panchanga makers (ephemeres} was 
convened by the Ministry of Human Resources Development of the 
Government of India, where thirty-elght out of forty participants 
approved the Chittra Paksha ayanamsha as being acceptable. The 
Raman ayanamsha got only one vote In Irs favour. 

The new chapters added here are Astrology and Psychology, 
and promises of political success With tIlustrated horoscopes, one of 


21K 


Astrology, Oestiny and the ‘Aneel af Toc Appuadia 
them being oF John. F* Kennedy, the US president, who, a 
charismatic personallcy, was shot dead. 

The Hindi translation of this boots, “Jyotish, Pararabdh Tatha Kat 
Chakra” has won very high praise from astrologers from the Hindi- 
speaking area. 

The demand for the second edition had come In the last quaner 
of [94 when the first editton, published in the middle of 1993, was 
sold out fast. But i was busy completing my book 'Predicting 
through Jalmint’s Chora Dasha’ which shows for the very first dme 
how a dosha of Jaimlnt can be employed far predictions and, shows 
too a jewel In the multi-splencdeured astrological heritage of India. 
It Is a path-breaking research of mine. 

Included In the book is also the abridged report of Dr. David 
Frawley. president of the American Council of Hindu Astrology. | 
was the Chief guest at their second International Symposium held at 
San Rafael, Callfarnia, USA in November 1983. Some parts of rhe 
report as they appeared Jn India, ‘were edited out* Those suppressed 
parts have been highlighted here. (See appendix #]} 


K.N* Rao 
F-291 Saraswath Kun], 


25, LP. Extension 
Delhi = / [0092 


Fly 


Appendix Il 


the second American Internattonal Symposium on Hindu 
Astrology and K.N. Rao’s Visit to America 

by David Frawtey 

December 11, 1993 

We decided that it was important to bring as she chief guest to: 
each conference one of the most prominent Hindu astrologers in 
India to further educate people tm America**, { visited India in 
December $992 and again In January 1993 and met Mr. KN Rao In 
New Delhi. | was SO Impressed not only with lds knowledge of 
Hindu astrology, which he revealed through a detailed examination 
of my own chart, but also with his eloquence as a speaker and hts 
mastery of tine Engfish language that | decided to recommend 
{inviting him, though he had nat yet traveled out of India. 

I alsa visited the school of the ICAS in New Delhi of Which Mr. 
Rao fs the main i pstructor, held at the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan, and 
| saw what a large and well-organized school fer astrology it had 
become, certainly the best in the world today with over four 
hundred students, As those of us who organized Ihe symposium 
also decided to start such a school, 1 felt rhat the Delhi school 
provided a good model for us to follow, and that through Rao we 
could be given the guidelines to begin to create such Institutions fh 
America. 

The main part of the symposium began... and the keynote 
address of KiN. Mao. Nearly five hundred people attended the 
events. Mr. Rao's talk was very well received, as he was able to 
communicate not only to the minds Sut ro the heart's of people 
weaving his knowledge of astrology with werd events and spiritual 
wisdom, 

At the conclusion of his speech, the American Council of Hindu 
Astrology gave Mr. Rao an award for outstanding achievement In 
the field of Hindu astrolagy, 

Finally on Tuesday, November 23, an entire day was devoted 


121 


Astroaopy, Destiny and wie Whee! of Timo Appesndin 


ro Mr. Rao who taught In depth predictive techniques of Hindu 
astrology to about a hundred Hindu astrelogers. specifically Yogtal 
Dasha, which was previously almost -unknown In America. Mr. Rao 
made a great impact ori everyone and has prompted tremendous 
Interest Im Hindu astrology* tls talks on Hindu astrology both 
captivated and Inspired hls audiences, who found him to be the best 
speaker at the symposium both for hls knowledge of astrology and 
Is ability to communicate fo people* His day-long classes proved so 
Interesting, that even when the lunch break was announced an hour 
late, people-were reluctant to go, so AS nor to lose any me that 
they might have listening to Mr. Rao, 

Mr, Rao kept his room open for discussions In the evening svhh 
various astrologe:s, which often continued Into the early hours of the 
marnlrig., Marry people came to lilm for these discussions In which 
he showed !n detail the accuracy and profundity of the Hindu 
system. Those who came were shown the depths of Hindu astrology 
and accurate predictions without even seeing the chart on pape. a 
feat that no Western astrologer could equal. 

Yet Rao's readings were no mere feats of precliction, he turned 
our {mn detail the psychological sophisdcaylon of Hindu astrology, 
which Western astrologers and_ their psychology tases 
interpretatian tend TO ignere saying that Hindu ascolagy bs of 
predictive value only. Rao showed how 41s prediction of cvents tn 
a person's fife t% the third-stage astrology, as the action 1§ the 
outcome of an Intentian and a particular mentality derived through 
thme and circumstances ofa person's [lfe, which a good astrologer 
should be able to read In the chart before making conclusions about 
a person's psychology operating If the charts of the Nehru famlly, 
as he has written in his book on the ‘Nehru Dynasty’, 

Rao's method of verifying the horoscope through outlining 
about halfa dozen events in a person's ilfe as ineiicazed In the chart 
impressed many astrologers, who are now beginning to use thls 
method (tn chart interpretations. He introduced many new predicting 
techniques ke YogIn| Dasha, Chata Dasha. and aspects of Jaimin to 
calculate. He pointed out the dangers of over-reliance upon 
computers and the need to memorize Ite data for best predictive 
ability, 

Perhaps the highlight of rhe conference was ihat the American 
Council on Hindu Astrology vas officially inaugurated... Im Santa Fe, 
as guests of David Frawley, they gave additional readings and 
classes. Mr. Rao gave a reading t& Yogi fihajak, the head of the Sikh 


ae | 


— 


Apponedla Astology, Dostiny aid tha Wises! of Time 


community, and also to his. friends and family members, As “‘Yog) 
tttiajdri. had: been quite lil, Rao's prediction that he Would live some 
additional years came as a great encouragement to the Yo! and his 
followers. 

important Western astrologers came to: visit Mr* Rao* tngrld 
Bergman, one of the most prominent Western astrologers 
pardcularly In the field of medical astrology, received a reading fram 
MirssRac and said that the predictive accuracy of Hindu system as 
related by Rao had no real counterpart tn Western tropical astrotogy. 
Reading her chart he was, able to tell amazing details of her life, 
Including the character and features of her parents. 

Of these books, Astrology, Destiny and the Wheel of Time was 
regarded by most American Hindu astrologers as the best book on 
Hindu astrology yet avaliable. Mr, Hixson decided to bring this book 
out in America tn the near future* 

Rao left with hundreds oF people requesting Hindu astrology 
readings, and with various astrological groups requesting his speedy 
return to teach them Hindu astrotagy. Perhaps no Hindu astrologer 
has made such an immedlate and strong Impact in the West from a 
single such visit 

Rao's impact was so great that here can only speak of Hindu 
astrology before and after Raa, Before Rao ‘lt was an [solated, 
unorganized and undirected movement, locking the spark of 
inspiration and a steady guidance* Afier Reo It has become a 
directed and vital movement developing Im many different areas. 


Reps 


