ASTROLOCALITY 


ASTROLOGY 


A Guide to What it is 
and 
How to use it 


by 


Martin Davis 


TIME AND SPACE IN ASTROLOGY 


An Introductory Comment by Nicholas Campion 
President of The Astrological Association of Great Britain 


Jung's oft-quoted dictum that 'whatever is born or done at this moment of time, 
has the quality of this moment of time" is, perhaps, the presiding manifesto of 
modern astrology. But, we may ask, whatever happened to space? Jung had 
nothing to say about the quality of the place at which an event happens, at least 
not in relation to astrology. 

Students of astrology are taught that the three items of data required for 
the calculation of any horoscope are time, date and place, and those concerned 
with astrology's advanced technicalities argue the pros and cons of different 
house systems, yet for these purposes space is treated as neutral, as a means 
merely of working out the ascendant and midheaven. But apart from this, 
spatial questions scarcely ever make an appearance in contemporary astrol- 
ogy. Yet it was not always so. The placing and construction of sacred sites from 
Megalithic circles to Egyptian, Greek, Mesoamerican and Hindu temples, 
reflect a concern with both the universe's metaphysical structure and obser- 
vations of horizon phenomena. The beliefs of the architects and builders 
responsible for these monuments indicate a concern with space that equals that 
with time. And that this concern was once widespread is demonstrated in the 
evidence provided by the modern historical disciplines of archaeo-as- 
tronomy and ethno-astronomy. When we turn to astrology itself, we find that 
the Babylonian astrologers were deeply concerned with such questions as the 
direction in which a celestial omen was observed, the part of the sky in which 
it took place, or the quadrant of the Moon which was obscured during an 
eclipse. The Babylonians, armed with this knowledge, believed that it was pos- 
sible to ascertain the region in which an omen's significance would be 
experienced. Ptolemy rationalised and simplified the Babylonian model, in- 
venting a crude system in which the twelve zodiac signs corresponded to twelve 
regions and peoples. Medieval horoscopy retained the allocation of houses to 
different places, and horary astrology has preserved the link between the four 
angles and the cardinal directions. Yet ninety-nine percent of twentieth cen- 
tury western astrology has focused on the inner journey rather than the outer 
experience. The question that psychological, natal astrology has failed to an- 
swer, for all its perceived advantages, is why an individual might have an inner 
experience in one place rather than another. It has tended to ignore the an- 
cient notion that place, space and direction might possess quality, reveal 
symbolic significance or indicate divine intent. 


Astrocartography, so ably developed and popularised by the late and sorely 
missed Jim Lewis represents a major innovation in the field, and offers a sub- 
stantial aid to answering the question of why, within the terms set by astrology, 
people experience diverse cultures and places in different ways. And in this 
respect Roy Firebrace, the first AA President, deserves an honourable men- 
tion for featuring ACG maps in Spica, his magazine, in the 1950s. Local Space 
is less known than Astrocartography, but equally capable of providing insights 
into the question of 'where?’ rather than 'when?'. Together these two additions 
to the astrologers’ tool kit restore the divinatory link between space and time. 
Martin Davis’ eloquent exposition of both techniques provides a comprehen- 
sive and welcome account of one of the most significant developments in 
modern astrology. 


NOTE 
1. C.G.Jung, In Memory of Richard Wilhelm, memorial address delivered in Mu- 
nich 1930. 


FOREWORD 


The material in this book was developed from the Astrolocality lectures and 
workshops I have been giving over the past years, mostly in Great Britain but 
also in places farther afield such as Athens, Dublin, Johannesburg, and Mos- 
cow. I have tried to present it in a way that addresses the many questions asked 
by students and to direcdy cover areas they felt needed clarification. Among 
other things, the reader will find a unique and detailed presentation of Local 
Space maps and charts, as well as examples of ‘destiny points’: an outcome of 
combining the perspectives of both Astro*Carto*Graphy and Local Space into 
one system !. 

My explorations with these techniques began over a decade ago when I 
purchased my first A*C*G map from the late Jim Lewis. In 1989 I was one of 
the first to receive Matrix Software's DOS program AstroMaps Hi Res?, which 
allowed me to begin my own in-depth research and then to pass my insights 
on to others in articles, workshops and lectures. 

Since I have lived and travelled in many locations around the world, the 
influences described by the maps were immediately apparent to me. With my 
natal Moon near its zenith position over Sao Paulo Brazil, for example, I could 
now understand why I had been greeted so emotionally there. Although I was 
only a minor figure participating in the 1963 Pan American games in that city, 
I had been begged for autographs and carried off triumphandy on the shoul- 
ders of a Brazilian sporting crowd. 

I was fascinated by Astrolocality astrology at first sight and an interest 
in it has never left me. At first, just having the information about global loca- 
tions was justification enough, but after the Uranus-Neptune conjunctions of 
1993 my life landscape began to change. A new awareness emerged height- 
ening my sensitivity to the past and to the earth itself. To my surprise, Astrolo- 
cality astrology became more than just a tool for locational information. 
Through it I was able to focus on Mother Earth in a fresh way, thereby revi- 
talising my connection with her. 

The language of Astrolocality astrology not only revealed new earth con- 
nections but it also inspired me to reconsider its ancient roots. Again to my 
surprise, I saw current Astrolocality astrology was one of the so-called ‘archaic 
revivals” that we see today. As with all archaic revivals, we reach back to the 
past to see what we had of substance years ago and then determine how it might 
be reinvented to make it useful today. Contemporary Astrolocality astrology 
fits right in with this revival. With it, we're bringing back a form of geomancy‘, 
the art and craft of determining appropriate, meaningful earth direction and 
earth location in our lives. Geomancy was practised by shamans and priest- 
astrologers of past ages who employed such things as omens and astronomi- 
cal markers to gain their knowledge. Nowadays we're using modern tools such 


as computers and computer software® for specific and personalised information 
about these locations and directions, be it in our homes, our communities, or 
the wider world at large. 


I would like to express my appreciation to those who have been important in 
the creation of this book and the field itself. Firstly to the late Jim Lewis and 
to Michael Erlewine, both of whom contributed the original and inspired work 
which remains the backbone of Astrolocality astrology today. Michael's im- 
portant original articles on Local Space are reprinted in Appendix 4. They are 
a must-read for all serious students of the technique. 

l have a big and appreciative thank-you to other astrologers who not only 
gave me their support and encouragement in this project, but who also con- 
tributed their work to it as a help to all future students. In alphabetical order 
they are: 


¢ Ralph and Lonni DeAmicas, for the rich examples they share 
with us from their Local Space consultations. 


¢ Jeff Jawer, for his ACG interpretations (in Appendix 1). Jeff's 
delineations are a welcome and important addition to the field. 
I'm sure they will become a major reference source for years to 
come. 


¢« Angel Thompson, for her descriptions of Local Space planetary 
lines in our homes (see Appendix 3). They too will be a major 
reference source for us. Angel, it is noted, is at the very centre of 
Astrolocality, writing, lecturing and co-ordinating activities in 
both ACG and Local Space’. 


My gratitude to Robert Currey of the Equinox Astrology Shop in London for 
allowing the reprint of the obituary he wrote for Jim Lewis (see Appendix 7) 
and for his providing the ‘official’ ACG maps used in this book. Gratitude and 
thanks as well to Paul Newman, Kris Shapar, Anthony Blake andJed 
Pemberton for their assistance with the manuscript 

A big thank-you to my friends and astrological colleagues, Ron Howland 
and Sean Lovatt; their sound advice is reflected in much of what is written here. 
And I wouldn't want to miss the opportunity of proclaiming my gratitude to 
Margaret Cahill, my publisher, who convinced me that now was the time and 
this was the place for me to sit down and finally write the textbook I had been 
promising for years. 


NOTES 


1. The proposal for combined use of the Astrolocality techniques was first published 
by Martin Davis in the November/December 1989 issue of the British Astrological 
Journal in the article tided 'Local Space Astrology’. 


2. Designed and programmed by Michael Erlewine. 


3. We note archaic revivals in many fields. We are seeing them happen in spiritual 
traditions, customs, medicines, and yes, in astrology as well. See 'The Archaic Revival: 
Speculations on Psychedelic Mushrooms, the Amazon, Virtual Reality, Evolution, Sha- 
manism, the Rebirth of the Goddess, etc.’, by Terence McKenna, Harper, 1992. 


4. From the Greek, 'ge', the earth; 'manteia', divination by means of the observation 
of points on the earth. 


5. Ihave used two excellent Windows computer programs in the preparation of this 
book. They are Matrix Software's Win*Star Plus, v.2 (for all charts and its Win*Maps 
module), and the Astrolabe/Esoteric Technology program, Solar Maps v..1.07. I found 
both necessary to gain all the features that were needed. An appreciative and hearty 
‘well done' to the companies and the programmers who created them. I also used the 
‘official’ maps as generated by the Equinox Astrology Shop in Covent Garden, Lon- 
don. Their full-colour presentation is commended, as are the accompanying ACG and 
CCG booklets. 


6. Angel is the director of Continuum, the organisation that trains and certifies as- 
trologers in ACG. Continuum uses its earnings to provide grants, donations and schol- 
arships to the astrological community. 


PREFACE 


This guide is primarily a tale of two techniques, Astro*Carto*Graphy (ACG) 
and Local Space (LS)!. One astrologer has figured prominently in the devel- 
opment of each method. Here is a brief summary about each of them: 


Astro*Carto*Graphy 


Most of us today know that the technique of ACG was developed by the late 
astrologer and author Jim Lewis. The names of his teacher, Donald A. Bradley, 
and others such as Dr Marc Edmund Jones and Gary Duncan may figure in 
the original conceptualisation of the technique, but put simply, Jim did a 
magnificent job developing the tool to what it is today. Jim began his work on 
ACG in the 1970’s, introducing it to the public in 1976. We can say he com- 
pleted a major part of it in 1982 when he launched Cyclo*Carto*Graphy 
(CCG), the mapping of one’s transits and progressions. Jim was the world's 
recognised authority on ACG. His writing on planetary effects at earth loca- 
tions was prolific and brilliant in both scope and detail. He lectured widely 
and was well known for his technique, which, more and more, is being used 
as a mainstream tool by astrologers around the world. Jim's works include The 
Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps (Llewellyn Publications, 1989), which he co- 
authored with Ariel Guttman. His booklet on using and interpreting A*C*G 
maps still remains a great condensed reference work on his technique, though 
it was published back in 1976. His booklet on Cyclo*Carto*Graphy, published 
in 1982, is equally powerful. 

Though Jim died in 1995, his colleague, Kenneth Irving, assembled and 
published much of Jim's later work along with his own insights in 1997, The 
book, The Psychology of Astro*Carto*Graphy (Arkana, 1997), is the definitive sum- 
mary of JimLewis's work, including his astrological ideas combined with depth 
psychology. 


Local Space 


The development of LS must be considered a personal tour de forcefor astrolo- 
ger Michael Erlewine. He envisioned the idea, conceived the technique to 
match his vision, and finished it up by programming the calculator routines 
necessary to employ it Michael gave it the name of 'Local Space’ and he iden- 
tified the important causal relationships within it. A noted astrologer, teacher 


and pioneering astrological programmer for many years, he is the founder and 

head of Matrix Software. Michael is also known for his work in astronomy, 

heliocentric astrology and more recently his All Music Guide and networking 

collaboration with the Alliance Entertainment Corporation. Michael's books 

include Astrophysical Directions (1977), The Sun is Shining (1980) and Manual of 
Computer Programming for Astrologers (1980). 


NOTE 


1. The technique of Geodetics has also been included in this book as it is an impor- 
tant adjunct to ACG and LS. 


FIGURES LIST 


Martin's chart and a stick figure diagram Data from 
birth certificate. WinStar Plus. 

Earth chart and stick figure. Win*Maps. 

Planetary meridian circles. Solar Maps. 

Martin's chart relocated to Philadelphia. WinStar Plus. 
ACG world map. MC meridian lines. Equinox. 

ACG world map. 1C meridian lines. Equinox. 

ACG South Asia map. Martin's data. Win*Maps. 
Martin's chart relocated to Miri, Malaysia. WinStar Plus. 
Martin's relocated possibilities for Mercury on the IC. 
Win*Maps. 

ACG world map. MC and 1C meridian lines. Equinox. 
ACG world map. The Sun's lines only. Solar Maps. 
ACG world map. Rising lines. Equinox. 

Martin's relocated chart for Edinburgh. WinStar Plus. 
ACG world map. Setting lines. Equinox. 

ACG world map. Martin's data. All lines. Equinox. 
Martin's relocated chart for Sao Paulo. WinStar Plus. 
CCG European detail. Martin's transits. Solar maps. 
CCG European detail. Martin's secondary progressions. 
Solar maps. 

CCG European detail. Martin's tertiary progressions. 
Solar maps. 

ACG world map. House positions. Solar Maps. 

Local Space (LS) lines on the globe. Solar Maps. 

LS world map. Martin's data. Win*Maps. 

LS chart. Martin's natal data. WinStar Plus, 

LS altitudes. Martin's natal data. WinStar Plus. 

LS chart map. Martin's natal data. WinStar Plus. 

Natal chart. Simone de Beauvoir. 

Data source: AA/GAU&71, Gauguelin "Birth and planetary 
data", series A-1971. Winstar Plus. 

LS chart. Simone de Beauvoir's natal data. WinStar Plus. 
LS chart. Martin's data; relocated to Philadelphia. 
WinStar Plus. 

LS chart. Princess Diana crash. Transiting data. WinStar 
Plus. 

LS chart. Transiting data. Eclipse moment, Paris France. 
WinStar Plus. 

LS perspective and shifting aspect patterns. Sketch. 

LS chart. Simone de Beauvoir's natal data. WinStar Plus. 
Martin's natal chart. Aspect lines shown. WinStar Plus. 
LS chart. Martin's data. Aspect lines shown. WinStar Plus. 
LS chart. Martin's data relocated to Duns, Scotland. 
WinStar Plus. 


PAGE 


49 


36. 


37. 


38. 


39. 


40. 


41. 
42. 


43. 
44, 


45. 


46. 


47. 


48. 
49. 


50. 


Sl. 


52. 


53. 
54. 
D9 
56. 
of. 
58. 
59. 
60. 


61. 


LS altitudes. Martin's data relocated to Duns, Scotland. 
WinStar Plus. 

LS world map. Charles Linbergh’s natal data. 4 February 
1902, 2:30 AM, 38. Detroit, MI. Source AA/ABC; Lois 
Rodden. A slightly rectified time of 2:34 AM used here. 
Win*Maps. 

Some of the routes of the 91 attempts before Lindbergh's. 
Sketch. 

LS map. Atlantic detail. Lindbergh's natal data. 

Win* Maps. 

LS map. Atlantic detail. Lindbergh's data relocated to 
Roosevelt field, NY. Win*Maps. 

LS chart. Lindbergh's natal data, Detroit. WinStar Plus. 
LS chart. Lindbergh's data relocated to Roosevelt field, 
NY. WinStar Plus. 

ACG map. European detail. Lindbergh's data.Win*Maps. 
ACG and LS “destiny point" map. European detail. 
Lindbergh's data. Win* Maps. 

ACG and LS "destiny point" map. European detail. 
Martin's data. Win*Maps. 

LS chart. Martin's data; relocated to Ankara Turkey. 
WinStar Plus. 

LS map. Martin's lines relocated from Germany. 

Win* Maps. 

LS map. Martin's lines relocated from Ankara.Win*Maps. 
LS map. Martin's lines relocated from Yorkshire, England. 
Win*Maps. 

LS map. Indian detail. Martin's lines relocated from 
Yorkshire, England. Win*Maps. 

LS chart. Martin's data relocated to New Delhi. 

Win* Maps. WinStar Plus. 


ACG map. Detail. Amelia Earhart's natal data: 24 July 


1897 11:30 PM CST. Source: A/Rodden’s Profiles of Women. 
Win*Maps. 

ACG and LS map. Lae. Moment of Earhart and Noonan 
departure. Solar Maps. 

LS chart. Lae. Moment of Earhart and Noonan departure. 
WinStar Plus. 

ALS wheel turned into a geomantic compass. Solar Maps. 
Floor plan with LS lines superimposed. Sketch. 

LS map. Martin's lines in his community. Sketch. 

LS map. Manchester's lines. Sketch. 

LS map. The plane of Martin's horizon projected out to 
the fixed stars. Win*Maps. 

Cathedral Rock Star Wheel. Courtesy of Raymond 
Mardyks. 

Marjan’s natal chart. Source: AA/birth certificate. 

WinStar Plus. 


59 


68 


72 


74 


106 
107 


62. 
63. 


83. 


84. 


85. 
86. 
87. 


88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 


92. 


LS map. European detail. Marjan's data. Win*Maps. 
LS map. European detail. David Meadows' birth data. 
Source: David. Win*Maps. 

LS chart. David's birth data in Leicester. WinStar Plus. 
LS chart. David's data relocated to Dresden. WinStar 
Plus. 

LS map. European detail. Martina's data. Source: 
Martina. Win*Maps. 

LS chart. Martina's birth data relocated to Leicester. 
WinStar Plus. 

USA birth chart. Source: A Chronology of American 70. 
Charts by R. Howland. WinStar Plus. 

LS chart. Howland's proposed USA data. Winstar Plus. 
LS map. Atlantic detail. USA data. Win*Maps. 

LS map. Northeastern detail. USA data. Win*Maps. 

LS map. Southern detail. USA data. Win*Maps. 

LS map. Eastern detail. Saturn line only. USA data. 
Win*Maps. 

LS map. Detail. USA data. Win*Maps. 

ACG map. World view. USA data. Equinox. 

Geodetic world map. Zodiacal signs on the globe. Solar 
maps & sketch. 

Geodetic world map. Zodiacal signs on the (flat earth) 
map. Solar maps & sketch. 

Full geodetic world map. Both zodiacal and rising signs. 
Sketch. 

Martin's natal chart. WinStar Plus. 

Martin's natal geodetic chart (St Louis). WinStar Plus. 
Martin's geodetic chart for Duns, Scotland. WinStar Plus. 
Jeddu Krishnamurti's birth chart. Data: 12 May 1895, 
12:18 AM LMT, Madanapalle, India. Source: A/Astro 
Data 3, L. Rodden. WinStar Plus. 

Krishnamurti's geodetic chart for Ojai California. WinStar 
Plus. 

Martin's geodetic chart for Darwin Australia. WinStar 
Plus. 

Geodetic chart. USA (Philadelphia). WinStar Plus. 
Transit "resonating" chart, Philadelphia. WinStar Plus. 
Birth chart, New Russia, Moscow, 7:38 PM. Source: as 
reported by Russian astrologer Y Kuryakov. Book of 
World Horoscopes by Nicholas Campion. WinStar Plus. 
Geodetic chart. Moscow. WinStar Plus. 

Transit chart. Attack on Pearl Harbor. WinStar Plus. 
Geodetic chart. Hickam air base. WinStar Plus. 
Geodetic chart. Northern Afghanistan, first earthquake. 
WinStar Plus. 

Geodetic chart. Northern Afghanistan, second 
earthquake. WinStar Plus. 


114 
115 


116 
116 


118 


118 


120 


120 
122 
123 
124 
125 


127 
128 
134 


135 
137 
141 
141 
142 
144 
145 
146 
147 


148 
149 


149 
150 
151 
151 


152 


93. 


94. 


Geodetic ACG world map. 1 January 2000. MC & IC 
lines. Solar Maps. 

Geodetic chart. Earthquake, Northridge, California. 
WinStar Plus. 

Geodetic chart. Earthquake, St Pierre, Martinique. 
WinStar Plus. 

LS chart. Mark, relocated. WinStar Plus. 

LS chart. Richard Nixon, relocated to Washington. 
WinStar Plus. 

Alex's natal chart. WinStar Plus. 


ACG map. European detail. Pluto MC line. Win*Maps. 


The Koch house system has been used in all chart wheels. 


153 


154 


155 


218 
219 


222 
222 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER ONE 


An IntrOGiictiO nn wicseceseesessesesves eevee esi lesion taivecssonesiosessoneasonessauteerserevestevsensrenneranerens I 
Astro*Carto*Graphy: the Dasics........cccccccccscsessescsessesssceeseesssssuessseensessnsseensseaseneaeeseeees 6 
Advanced Astro*Carto*Graphy..........c:cccecceeccceeecseeecseeecsnensenetetiseetinetenntenntentietees 23 
CHAPTER TWO 

LOCALS Pacey iscsi eec Pesce ccanaiasa tease adaansnsead ates Eds tenedteneitensieenenannitanirannaneeeuens 37 
Using Local Space charts, chart maps and map6.........0..0.cceeceeeeeeeeeeeeseteneteene netted 47 
Shifting aspect patterMs.....0..0.0c0ccccccceeesestecsteseeesssesnsseseerssensseesesssssseetessnseeeeeeees 54 
CHAPTER THREE 

Local Space maps.........c.cccccceccccesecsesessesceseseesseeseecenesceseseesesissessssneaeensiesnsetessseeetensseeneseeneed 65 
Destiny Points: combining ACG and LS information... cece 73 
CHAPTER FOUR 

The Local Space chart in the home, community and beyond.......0..0.0.0ccee eee 95 
Special studies in Local Space...n..ccccceccsssessssscssesssessersseseessesarseeeeeeeenn 1{2 
CHAPTER FIVE 

Geodetics: the Geodetic world map..........0...cc: ce eesesseseeeeseesseseeteeeeeteneecteesetesseees 133 
The Geodetic chart: what it is and what it tells US... 0c eccceseneeeneeneeenenteeens 139 
APTLERW ORD iio itain iit adnan iat niin aaah tina at 159 
APPENDIX ONE by Jeff Jawer_______161 
APPENDIX TWO by Martin Davis... ccc eetetteeeeteenteetteeees 171 
APPENDIX THREE by Angel Thompson...............:cccccccceteeetees 199 
APPENDIX FOUR by Michael Erlewine.........00...000 ccc eee 203 
APPENDIX FIVE by Sean Lovatt....000.00.00c cece ee eetesteeeenteseneed 217 
APPENDIX SIX by Martin Davis......0.0.000.0.0cececcec cece ee ecteeeeeeeteeeeeteeee 221 
APPENDIX SEVEN by Robert Currey. .....0.0..0.0.000:ccceccceeetseeete terete 225 


CHAPTER ONE 


Introduction; Astrolocality astrology; ACG - the basics; Advanced ACG 


AN INTRODUCTION 


There is a new field of astrology today which is as innovative and exciting as 
it is contemporary and useful. It is different from other astrological branches 
in that its techniques have a predominandy spatial rather than time orientation. 
This field or type of astrology is so new that it doesn't yet even have a com- 
monly accepted name. I find that the name Astrolocality Astrology fits it best and 
have therefore used it for this guide. 

The techniques of Astrolocality astrology are based on sound, traditional 
astrological and astronomical principles, yet they have become accessible to 
us only because of the support of modern computers and astrological software. 
Hence, this field is a unique blend of the old and the new, perfectly reflecting 
the essence of today's reality and therefore a true need for our time. 

Modern physics has shown us that we live in what is called a ‘space-time 
continuum’. Einstein's work connected space and time for the first time, be- 
cause before this people saw them as separate. He reaffirmed that not only is 
there a space-time continuum, but that you cannot separate time from space 
and space from time, in terms of events. Events in our lives unfold against a 
backdrop of both a'where’ (space or place) and a 'when! (time), which gives 
them meaning. 

Traditional branches of astrology have always had a time-oriented view. 
Location is an ingredient of traditional astrological work, of course, as longi- 
tude and latitude are necessary inputs, but the emphasis or desired informa- 
tion has been on when an event or astrological 'hit’ would transpire. The natal 
or event chart is itself of a moment in time in which we usually look for a 
potential unfolding (in time) using techniques such as transits, progressions and 
directions - all time-oriented techniques. The space factor hasn't played a very 
big role, and the space factor is really what Astrolocality astrology is about. 

Until recendy, a spatially oriented, earth-view astrology hadn't been 
available to us in a readily accessible form - though its need had become very 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


apparent. Now, more than ever before, we live in a relatively affluent and 
mobile society that not only offers us opportunities to travel, but where daily 
life may even demand locational change. When faced with today's issues in- 
volving new jobs, new relationships, and family responsibilities, we require a 
contemporary astrology that will not only indicate when to act (time) but also 
will help us determine where or in what direction to move (space) to accom- 
plish our life goals. 

The idea behind space-oriented techniques is that they symbolically 
connect the planetary energies and influences directly to the earth upon 
which we live. Planetary energies are brought down to earth, so to speak: 
they are no longer an influence ‘out there’, but 'down here’, right where we 
stand or to where we can travel’. 

Just as time-oriented astrological techniques help us give meaning to our 
life events from the nature of the astrological 'hits' we may be having (at that 
time), the space-oriented techniques of Astrolocality Astrology bring meaning 
according to the location and direction of these events. Space-oriented tech- 
niques not only tell us what to expect on earth at certain locations or in particular 
directions but also why the people or things embodying these events are com- 
ing to us from specific points or directions on the earth, 

In the past, for example, astrology has been able to indicate when (time) 
anew relationship might come into our lives, but now with Astrolocality as- 
trology we can also see where (place or space) on earth it is most likely to occur 
or from where that individual would enter our lives. And it may no longer even 
be necessary to simply wait, longing for that special transit to our natal charts. 
We may now be able to bring the same energy into our lives (or to escape from 
it) by moving about on the globe, thereby immediately creating a transit or 
progression for ourselves in space rather than in time! 


The Two Techniques 

Astrolocality astrology employs two major techniques: Astro*Carto*Graphy 
(ACG) and Local Space (LS). Each technique or method can and has been 
employed independently. Practitioners today tend to use one or the other. 
However, in this book we will introduce examples showing the possibility of 
using them together, like the right and left hands of one astrological body - 
the wholeness and integration bringing a more complete and deeper mean- 
ing than either could uncover alone. 

In the chapters that follow I will explain each technique, sometimes in 
its own right, sometimes in comparison with the other, and sometimes together 
as a holistic pair. 


Let our earth journey begin..... 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE 


Surely the traditional birth/event chart, as shown in Figure 1, is invaluable to 
astrological analysis. It remains and must remain the cornerstone of astrology 
itself. Although this chart gives us a pictorial sky view, looking upwards from 
an earth perspective, it only approximates a true astronomical situation. The 
traditional astrological chart is, in fact, a pseudo sky map as viewed from the 
earth (geocentric) looking up into the sky. 1 say it is pseudo’ in the sense that one 
could hardly ever use it as a navigational aid to fly to the Moon, for example. 
But it does display meaningful information on relative astronomical positions 
from which much can be deduced. 

The maps used in Astrolocality astrology turn this upward-looking per- 
spective on its head. An Astrolocality map begins with a sky view from be- 
yond the planets, looking down upon the earth, the planets superimposed exactly 
as they are over the earth in their zenith positions (exacdy overhead). This 
means that when employing Astrolocality techniques, we often use actual geo- 
graphic maps of the earth or of regions on the earth with their usual equato- 
rial orientation. 


Figure 2 is the starting basis of either the ACG or LS Astrolocality map. It is 
a portrayal of the same moment in time as shown in Figure 1. Here, from a 
vantage point above the planets we look down to see where each of the plan- 
ets appears in its zenith position over the earth. 


¢ The true 3-dimensional, global perspective is flattened out here to corre- 
spond to a 2-dimensional, flat earth map. In reality we would have to be view- 
ing the earth all around its girth at the same moment to see this. The diagram 
is however completely accurate in its portrayal of zenith positions. 


* The concept of a planet in its zenith position is not one we have directly 
experienced in our northern latitudes. Those readers living closer to the equator 
will be familiar with the Sun, for example, being direcdy above them at noon. 
The zenith is defined as the point immediately overhead from any given point 
on earth. Technically speaking, it is the pole of the horizon at that point’. 


¢ It's true that if an observer is not direcdy above a planet when looking down 
at the earth, parallax error might make it appear as if its apparent projection 
onto the earth has shifted. What we are speaking of and showing here is a 
vantage point and orientation that is truly taken at the zenith, that is without 
parallax error. 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


oi 28°2 30° Te 
Ao ee | 0 
ac WO | 8 F ReN 
\ 


r) “ 
‘4 36 “a . 
i / 4 Ss? \ \ 
; Martin Davis ‘ \ 
18°: (12 Sept 07, 1937 ‘7 48°° 


i Saint Louis, MO \ 
mT eae ats i + 8 | 
10:58:00 AM CST. mar 32°G 43° i! 138"| 
i + +06: j 
1 ! 
\ ! 


Figure 1 


ZT UNBhy 


AHdVaUD+OLAVO+OULSV INV ALITVOOTOULSV 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


Spend a moment with Figure 2 and let its perspective sink in. This is the basic 
starting perspective for both the Astro*Carto*Graphy and Local Space tech- 
niques. This simple picture may be the most important in the whole book as ail else 
will follow from or be added to it. 


In summary: 
It will be helpful to keep some points in mind about the techniques of ACG 
and LS as we begin to explore them: 


¢ These techniques have primarily a spatial orientation rather than the more 
traditional time orientation. 


¢ The techniques bring meaning to our life experience by relating planetary 
energies to locations and directions on earth. 


In other words, with the development of Astrolocality astrology, we now have 
the astrological tools to explore the space that surrounds us. When this is 
blended with information from the traditional time-oriented techniques, we 
gain the more holistic space-time viewpoint of ourselves, giving us more in- 
formed life choices and a better understanding of our life experience. 


ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY: THE BASICS 


A*C*G maps: a tool to describe the effect of planetary angularity upon the 
earth. In its most condensed explanation, an ACG map is a diagram that shows 
where planets (I'm including the lights - the Sun and Moon - when I refer to 
‘planets’) are angular at the moment under investigation. Let's now look at this 
more closely to gain a real understanding of what it all means. 


Two ways to approach an ACG map: 
In the literature of the field, ACG maps are often presented as either: 


1. An indicator of angularity. This is especially so when the maps are em- 
ployed as a tool in the field of mundane astrology’, to study world or pub- 
lic events. 


2. An overview diagram showing where individuals would have angular 
planets (on the ascendant, descendant, MC or IC) in their relocated charts. 


Both viewpoints are correct! Wewill interweave both perspectives as we develop 
an ACG map. Firstly, let's look at the two perspectives in more detail: 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


1. As an (independent) indicator of angularity 

ACG can be seen as a system in its own right, independent of any other tech- 
niques. This approach is based upon the well-noted effect that planets oriented 
to the earth in angularity pack the most power in terms of earthly effects or 
events. Angular positions are the rising, setting, high point (culminating), and 
low point (under foot or anticulminating) positions. The Sun, for example, at 
any given moment, will be simultaneously rising, setting, culminating and 
anticulminating at different points on earth, and in the 24-hour period of the 
earth's rotation all locations will experience each of the different angularities. 
John Muir, the Scottish-born naturalist, poetically expresses this as, "Eternal 
sunrise, eternal sunset, eternal dawn and gloaming, on sea and continents and 
islands, each in its turn, as the round earth rolls". 

This simultaneity is the basis for the ACG map itself, which plots all the 
planets at once for their angular effects upon the earth. 

As Lewis himself said of his A*C*G map, "I computer-generate a map 
on which lines are drawn that show where certain planets would occupy the 
spotlight of angularity *”. 

Seeing ACG this way is most useful in mundane astrological work, where 
we want to look at angular planetary effects on a specific country or geographic 
location. 


2. As an individual's relocation map overview 
Here we consider the ACG map as an overview of where we would find plan- 
ets on the angles in our relocated charts. 


What is a relocated chart? 
Prior to the development of ACG and LS, astrologers had only one major 
technique to measure a Client's relocation possibilities, the relocation chart This 
chart is created by altering the natal co-ordinates of longitude and latitude to 
those of another location. Date and time remain while the locational informa- 
tion is changed °. This gives us a picture of what the birth chart would have been had 
the native been born at the place of relocation (at the same universal time). The plan- 
etary positions in Zodiacal degrees remain the same as in the natal chart, but 
the angles (ascendant, descendant, MH and IC) and house cusps of the chart 
are changed, moving the planets to different positions within the wheel itself. 
In general, the movement of planets to angular positions in relocated 
charts is of greatest importance when evaluating them. A planet brought close 
to an angle can stand out from all the other chart factors and become a domi- 
nant theme in a person's life: Venus, for example, moving to the Midheaven 
(MC or MH) of a relocated chart, indicates that the individual might find a 
tush of friendly social activity at the new location, be able to create good re- 
lationships for business and perhaps, for the first time in their life, find oppor- 
tunity in the entertainment industry, the arts, crafts or even in astrological 
relationship counselling! 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


When we use the ACG map with personal relocation in mind, the map be- 
comes a grand overview of all earth locations where we would have planets 
on the angles of our relocated charts. ACG is then no longer a tool completely 
in its own right but rather is used co-operatively with our relocated charts. 


Technical note 

This co-operative use does bring up the issue of Pluto's exact position on the 
ACG map relative to its angularity on the corresponding relocated chart. In- 
terested readers will find a discussion of this in Appendix 6. 


In summary: 

We can expect to see at least 40 lines on an A*C*G map: 10 planets, each rep- 
resented by their four lines of angularity. Some maps may have more if we 
include Chiron, the Nodes, asteroids or even aspect lines to the angles ®. This 
is so regardless of which of the two views of the technique we are using: plan- 
etary angularity in its own right, or as a grand relocation overview. In either 
case, with maps in hand, we can knowledgeably roam our 'global village’, 
helped by an understanding of the type of life events that we can expect at its 
many different locations. 


Building an ACG map 


1. Culminating Lines (MC) 

If you review Figure 2, you will see a picture of the planets in zenith position 
to the earth at the moment of my birth. Let's now examine Figure 3. Here a 
great circle meridian line has been drawn through each planet, with all the 
circles converging at the poles. Note that the Moon (in the centre) was over 
Brazil at my birth moment and that the Sun and Neptune were over Colom- 
bia, South America. 


What justification for the meridian line through each planet? 

Each planetary meridian line depicted here has a validity regardless of whether 
we are using the map as an independent mundane tool or as an individual's 
relocation overview. 


a) Mundane perspective. From pole to pole, on the side of the earth which faces 
the planet, all the locations along the meridian line will experience the planet 
as culminating - i.e. being in its highest observed point in the sky that day. 
Though the actual sky position (altitude) of the high point would depend on 
an observer's geographic latitude, there would be the shared experience (of a 
culminating angular effect) for all people along that line. 


€ aNnsty 


Me | ERY 


AHdVaADsOLAVIO«ONLSV UNV ALITVOOTOULSV 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


Perhaps this would be more clearly illustrated if we considered my natal Sun 
and its meridian line starting over Colombia and winding its way up and down 
from pole to pole. With the Sun over Colombia, it would be noon there (ig- 
noring possible artificial clock time changes for the moment). Following the 
meridian line northward, we can see that it would also be noon near eastern 
Cuba as well as in Philadelphia at that same moment. Surely the noontime Sun 
would have been higher in the sky over Colombia and Cuba than at Philadel- 
phia, but everyone living along the entire length of that solar meridian line 
was experiencing a culminating Sun at the moment of my birth - with that 
significance and meaning extending from pole to pole. 


b) Relocation perspective. To see how this would relate to a relocation chart, 
let us look at Figure 4. It is my relocated chart for Philadelphia Compared 
with my birth chart (Figure 1), note that my natal relocated Sun has now moved 
to almost perfect conjunction (alignment) with the Midheaven (MC). It could 
be shown that all the locations, from pole to pole, on that meridian line facing 
the Sun would result in relocated charts for me that would have the Sun on 
the MC. 


What might this mean? 
In my case I lived in Philadelphia for 12 years, rising in rank and success in 
my career in engineering and my sporting interests. I had a very public life 


eT Ter On 


ae 4 Vo) 26. 
/ ” ¥ cM 
o mT ‘, 
ee) ~ ag” ow 
/s? 1 248388 oe age {RBP 
Jt, . \ | 2 S & \E . 
/04/ Me To 23" o” “N29. 
/ eee ch a Rees 
| ! Ss | ~ ee els 
 M. Davis Relocated \ \ Pe 
lage! Iho! sept 7,1957, \7\ srXO "A. 
mn | i | Philadelphia,PA i is! 
[Me 04:57:59 PMGMT i 
eal gg ST \4\ ZONE: +00:00 0/6 | oe. 


g amiy 


+ 


LUG Loe iast BT GREEN 
s « 


ar) RAR PERN IIE 


Fe 
ae 


AHdVaADsOLNVI4s08LSV INV ALITVIOTOSLSV 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


and was well known for my outer accomplishments. This fits very well with a 
Sun on the MC or in the 10" house. Jim Lewis said of Sun on the Midheaven, 
“Here, you rise and advance socially through career and vocational inter- 
ests ....”. Jeff Jawerwrites (see Appendix J), “...It (this location) has to do with 
career, one's place in society and, to a certain degree, a place to which we are 
evolving...". 

Figure 5 is a flattened earth view with all my MC lines shown at once. 
Each line was a curved meridian stretching from pole to pole on the globe 
depicted in Figure 3. So, thinking in terms of a dual view of ACG, here we 
have both a chart for culminating energy for me over the entire earth and, at 
the same time, an overview of all locations on earth where I'd find a planet 
on or near the MC in my relocated charts. 


We have just constructed the first of the 4 types of lines found on the usual ACG 
map! Let's now discover how the other lines are created to show 'the spodight 
of angularity’. 


2. Anti-Culminating (IC) Lines 

Figure 6 is an ACG flat map view with only my IC lines shown. These lines 
each represent the other half of the meridian circle that we drew on the earth 
for the planets in the previous illustrations. They differ from the last diagram 
inasmuch as they represent the lines drawn pole to pole that were facing away 
from the planets at my birth moment These energies would be experienced 
as ‘underfoot’ for me or as the IC on my relocated charts. 


What might this mean? 

Let's look at an example of a visit to an IC location for me. Figure 7 is a detail 
of my South Asian map. From it we may note that my Mercury on the IC line 
runs through Brunei and down into Borneo but is less than 75 miles from the 
Malaysian city of Miri. Figure 8 is my relocation chart for Miri. Note that as 
we might expect mynatal Mercury has moved down to the bottom of this chart 
just a few degrees from a perfect conjunction with the IC. 

What happened to me in Miri? I was invited there to be part of a busi- 
ness consulting team. I had never even heard of the place before, so had little 
sensitivity to its astrological potentials before being selected for the assignment 
Once there, surprising to me, I felt very much at home. I felt a supportive 
environment both for body (warmth and good food) as well as for my career. 

My first task in Miri was to conduct one-on-one interviews with about 
25 employees from all strata of a local oil company. The ethnic variety was a 
surprise to me - every employee was different. Some were from Borneo, still 
involved with their native culture; some were Malaysians from Sarawak; oth- 
ers came from nearby China or Thailand. It was a friendly and varied cultural 
feast, yet as I made initial contact with each individual, I could feel their di- 
versity as a sensation in my body. Many readers will recognise the mercurial 


12 


£1 
9 ams3iy 


k 


OS CIRUE WEST RF OREN 
H an 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


ay : 
' ' Mwitiss fry yo 
| * 


, a 
( 4 


i : \ 
2ae/ 8 3z \a3'\ 
fSS. oat Bey i x oh oe . \ 
as ae ne 8 \ wee st? \ \ 
a st / ~Y M.Davis Relocated “a 4 4 
la7°/ 12, Sept 7, 1937 ‘7\ loge | 
| r | Miri, Malaysia ee 2 { | 
E oS 3st | 04:57:59 PM GMT | 
00'| ay ZONE: +00:00 | | 
\ | 
\ ; 
\ ah << 2 
ee ee 
ret 29°” a” 
WF 09° 
cote 
. 2 
2 op 


: = 2 


me 
Sere 
oy 


“Ey 
ae, 


Figure 9 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


nature of my experience here: business travel, a communication project di- 
versity and the IC effect of a direct bodily experience that permeates to one's 
core. I left Miri with many new friends from our global family. 

The shaded area on the world map of Figure 9 gives an overview of all 
of my global Mercury-IC possibilities, showing every world location that would 
have my natal Mercury in a relocated chart's 4" house’ (for the Koch house 
system). Note that most of Malaysia is covered by this band, including Miri. 
Pottinger and Dobyns, in their book on relocation charts, Planets on the Move 
(ACS Publications, 1995), alert us that as wonderful as ACG maps are, they 
do not reveal the whole picture. They recommend a study of the entire relo- 
cated chart, because the new house positions for all the planets (not just those 
brought to angularity) will tell us even more about the experience there. 

Returning to the example of my business trip to Malaysia, let's look 
again at my entire relocated chart for Miri, Figure 8, and briefly assess the new 
positions of all the planets in their relocated houses. 


All relocated positions: 


Saturn is in the 70* house I was a business authority figure in 
Miri. 
Uranus in the 77* house New kinds of friends who, in their di- 


versity, challenged and opened up my 
old views and limited cultural vistas. 


Pluto in the 2" house A change in values; opening to 
cultural diversity. 


Venus in the 2" house I was paid a lot more for that business 
trip than I'd earn from astrology! 


Sun in 3 house Accelerated tempo and intense 
communication with my business 
associates. 

Neptune in the 3™ house Subtle insights but great care needed 


to keep communication clear across 
cultural boundaries and diverse 
systems of understanding. 


Mercury near the IC Ease of expression of my innermost 


but in the 4 house thoughts and feelings. Subjective, 
personal responses to events. 


16 


LI 
OI amsry 


reat 
aepatanh: 


Boaragater oe 
e 
JE CRON My . EUPET NWI 


Me anakiges 
cy 
FORCE EY 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


Moon in the 4" house The time, place and situation for me 
to look inside at my attitudes, feelings 
and emotional orientation toward the 
cultural diversity around me. 


North Node inthe 6 house Employed new computer-based 
techniques in my interviews, literally 
breaking new ground in the field of 
scenario planning. 


Mars in the ® house Worked hard, mostly in a number of 
one-on-one situations in the work 
place. Assignment required individual 
initiative rather than that of a team 
player. 


Jupiter in the 7 house A classic! Partnerships. Intimate one- 
on-one encounters that showed me 
aspects of myself and the world 
around me. 


We have now created two of the four angular groups of lines which an ACG 
map comprises. Figure 10 shows what we have looked at so far, the culminat- 
ing (MC) and anticulminating (IC) lines. Let's move on to the rising (ascend- 
ing) and setting (descending) ones to complete the map. 


Figure 11] 


SOBCM URE WET GE CHEENA EL 


me rdnae 


SS 
Sone A rl 


f 


pe 


ean? 


ice Gare i igre! ee mA He : : % 


6 
GI WNL 


SEAN 


SE Sia Nem, 


(es 
SSR, 


gaerecoe 


ee sh : : sith giinbebedgewerds vantide’ 
er ey 4 ial 
LONGI GDE EAST OH GALEN : 


hs 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


3. Rising (ascending) and Setting (descending) 

To get a good understanding of the rising/setting components of the ACG map, 
it will be helpful to view Figure 11. Here I have isolated all the lines of the great 
light giver, the Sun, as it transits over my own home in Scodand, at noon. We 
can see that other areas of the world are experiencing a sunrise and sunset (and 
midnight too) at the same moment that I might be enjoying the midday sun. 
While I have my lunch, a small segment of the USA's East Coast is beginning 
to stir to the morning light of the sunrise. Also, at that same moment many 
farmers have already left their fields for home as darkness descends over In- 
dia. A commonality here is that everyone along the entire rising line (to the 
left of the diagram) is experiencing the sunrise of a new day dawning and those 
living under the entire descending line (to the right) are beginning to retire for 
the day. In astronomical terms, the rising and setting lines have zero altitude 
on their respective rising and setting earth locations. The earth itself is feeling 
the solar influence or information arriving or departing along those lines. For 
children born at this moment anywhere on earth, there would be an imprint 
energy field or special quality that would connect them to those earth loca- 
tions for their entire life. 

Figure 12 shows the rising lines for all planets at my birth moment. This 
map represents the third component of the four found on a completed ACG 
map. 

Figure 13 shows my relocated chart for Edinburgh, Scodand, near my 
current home. Note that on both Figures 12 and 13 itis clear that I have moved 


pee ne te, 
“ae 29°M.. 49° — 
419 2 ae 177 
a ra 
13° << 2 > 
ae: 
OR age Pas 
rN i a 
46° s7 : é 2 
a/ 38. pera iz 
Be eee. a ae 
28°/ ~~ <“10_ 1 9 x 
aay . 
.'* M. Davis Relocated ~ *, os’ .e\ 
19°! :12/ Sept 7, 1937 ae 32° & 29 \49° 
17°W 33 R ji Edinburgh, Scotland { 
NS Set 04:57:59PMGMT / | SF | 
10°} Vay ZONE: +00:00 /6 j10"| 
ies 003W 13'00" ane ; 3 
oa \ aes 55N57°00 3g $4 
22° ~ a oo° ar A 
22°. 8 c “3 7 4 4g: / 
sm \ 02" + ‘ 7. I 
’ a ; a 
51s, cae az | ee 28 
x NR a es | og* \ 
qT wt vt ee 
Pao Ea 
SAS 2G ag 
Figure 13 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


to an astrologically favourable location close to where Jupiter is rising. Perhaps 
this goes a way to explaining why I felt happy to move here before ] had even 
considered information from my ACG map. And why not? Jim Lewis states 
about this line, "Here you exude self confidence, personal quality, and may 
have healing or religious power. Faith, optimism and hope are outwardly 
seen..." In the case with Jupiter lines he also warns that ] might become pomp- 
ous, self-important, oversized and lax. Jeff Jawer, in Appendix 1, adds an 
important point that rings so true. He states that ] could expect to be guided 
by vision here but won't have patience for details and may feel as if I'm fall- 
ing short of my expectations. 

Figure 14 depicts my descending lines around the globe. Note that my 
Venus descending line goes straight through Paris. This correlates perfectly with 
my relocated chart for Paris, which has Venus smack on the descendant! What 
significance does this have for me? Well, for a starter, my wife was bom in Paris 
- though we didn't meet there. This is an example of how we also draw 
people (and events) to us from sensitive earth regions without having to travel 
to them. 


We have now discussed the major components of the ACG chart. Figure 15 is 
my full ACG chart of all 40 lines, the ten planets each with the four lines of 
angularity: rising, setting, culminating and anticulminating. 


21 


(oA 


FL amr 


sys 


rie er th 


ci x 
TE GEST OF CREENUACH 


PIAS HOLA AL 


Ey co & 
LONesTpbe EAST OF GREENWICH 
§ 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


ADVANCED ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 
Orbs of influence; Parans; Cyclo*Carto*Graphy; East or West of a line; 
Using the sidereal zodiac; Bringing it all together 


Orbs of Influence 

The closer a line is to one’s location the more one would feel its correspond- 
ing planetary influence. But how close do we have to be to begin to feel it? It 
appears that Jim Lewis used various orbs in evaluating ACG maps. For some 
studies he used 300 to 400 miles as maximum distances for effectiveness and 
at other times up to 700 miles (1000 kilometres) were considered by him to be 
powerful enough to have an effect He also felt that if one were investigating 
a location without any lines, the nearest lines would be the most activated, re- 
gardless of the distance. I think Robert Currey sums it up, "In any event, orbs 
depend on so many factors, and largely boil down to the astrologer's personal 
choice". 


Parans 

‘Paran’ is a term coined by astrologer Rob Hand from the Greek 
‘Paranatellonta’, approximately meaning ‘rising together’ or 'rising side by side’. 
It is used in ACG to denote a crossing in space between a meridian (MC or 
IC line) and horizon (rising or setting) line. At this point we literally have a 
square in space and, as with squares in general, we are likely to be called upon 
to act or respond to events at these earth locations. The common usage of 
parans has been opened up to include all crossings on an ACG map (such as 
between the rising line of one planet and the setting line of another, for exam- 
ple). Paran lists are generated by computer programs or can be discerned ap- 
proximately by eye from the maps. In addition to the exact point were the ACG 
lines come together, one notes the earth latitude where the crossing occurs and 
considers that specific combination of planets as potent for that latitude around 
the entire globe. 

Why around the entire globe? Well, in 24 hours the earth will rotate below 
the crossing of the two planetary lines, imbuing that entire latitude with the 
influence of the planetary crossing (square in space). I feel the crossing point 
itself is most significant but that yes, the entire global latitude is affected (es- 
pecially for slower moving planets, whose angular relationships to each other 
change very slowly). An orb of plus or minus one degree of latitude can be 
used for global parans when determining their range of potency. As with all 
of the other ACG lines, the tighter the orb, the greater the effect we can expect 

Let's look at an example to make this clearer. Reviewing my completed 
ACG map of Figure I5, it can be seen that I have a paran (crossing) of Moon 
on the MC and Jupiter rising over Brazil. This is, in effect asquare in space 
over Brazil for me. My relocated chart near that location should reflect this, 
with both planets being near the angles. Figure 16 is such a relocated chart for 


a 
} BASE OE GREENS 


» 


DA 


eae 
2 


* & 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


Sao Paulo, Brazil, which, though not exacdy underneath the paran, is nearby. 
Note that on this chart the Moon is only 2 degrees wide from the MC and 
Jupiter is 5 degrees from the ascendant. Both are close enough to the angles 
to be felt. 

Jim Lewis looked upon this planetary combination favourably. He states 
that Moon/Jupiter combinations are "One of the best places; this is where you 
are loved and admired... Here you are honoured by those in authority.." 

In addition to that direct energy, I have a paran effect on Sao Paulo from 
around the globe over NW Australia. Here a paran (crossing) of Mercury on 
the IC and Mars descending affects the geographic latitude of 23 degrees south 
around the entire globe. Sao Paulo is at that latitude. Jim felt this combination 
gave a rougher edge than the Moon/Jupiter above. He said that daring and 
recklessness could manifest, it being a good latitude for active work, with 
mental and verbal abilities given force to accomplish goals. In analysing such 
acomplex situation, I would give preference to the direct paran crossing nearby 
having the most power, with the distant paran latitude crossing acting as an 
additional, though secondary, factor. 

What happened to me in Sao Paulo? In 1963 I was a member of a gold- 
medal sports team there (foil fencing, Pan American Games). I had been dar- 
ing in the competition and it had paid off. I was given a tumultuous welcome 
by a sporting crowd - though I doubt anyone knew who I was or what I had 
accomplished. I was offered work by wealthy Brazilians to stay and teach foil 


eh op 
Ate a 27° 


. 4 ce ~ s 
gat ‘ sei Pp Ae mae 
2 39/7 ogo \ 24°45: UN 
rar ae 15° a | oR 8 D2 ; 
24e/ Pee Se a AAO 9 27 Sats 
/ , a / a“ , \ 
as 4A ) a 
i i % 09° 2 \ \ 
fe 8 “/ M. Davis Relocated “<~ \ 952 @' \ 
°j ‘ '12/ Sept 7, 1937 7. 39°29 F \500 
22°14 47°¥3 BIR fj Sao Paulo, Brazil Ve - 
VS nm mn 9457:59 PM GMT a 
22" ay ZONE: +00:00  /g/ 22"! 
aa ak 046W37'00" hon . 
4 4% = . 7 23S32'00" BAA AN 31 S : ? 
, 26 5 LS age P 
20° x a _ ve ~ / f 
49°° as ae a as x sr a / 39° / 
ef Po ae "oo" 24 
) : four 
if 7 | 8 \2ae uy a 
= j I ° / 
Ry Bese os | 13° \ va ff 
Wy 8 -gie_~ 
sb a en a Ra 
ae 1s°T 27 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


fencing at their country club as well as being quoted in the local newspapers. 
Here in Brazil, under my Moon/Jupiter paran, I was given more (undeserved) 
public adulation than I had ever received in my life. Surely the environment 
and events seemed to support the good auguries of the maps! As with any great 
location we might find in the world, another side always exists. Jim cautions 
us for example that Moon/Jupiter's good luck can result in slackened ambi- 
tions and diminishing demands on oneself at such a location. Yes, the choice 
is ours to make. 


Cyclo*Carto*Graphy (CCG) 

CCG is a mapping of our transits and progressions onto our basic ACG map. 
Once the ACG map has established the primary alignment of planets to the 
earth, our subsequent transits and progressions can be placed on it as well. 
Though the original ACG lines remain supreme and valid for our special earth 
locations, with this technique we can assess the secondary effect of moving 
planets upon the earth at specific time periods in our lives. This is similar to the 
way we approach transits and progressions for our natal charts. 

When working with CCG information, we are looking at the when (time) 
that the where (place) will have temporary event-oriented possibilities for us. 
It might even be that a temporary effect can either mask or stimulate a per- 
manent one just at the time we are visiting there. 

CCG maps can be generated in some computer programs. CCG over- 
lays to an ‘official! ACG map can also be purchased from ACG sources*. The 
overlay is partially transparent, and when placed over the ACG map, it dis- 
plays the CCG moving positions with the original ACG positions still visible 
below it. This allows a comparison of the new areas of the world that are in- 
fluenced with those of the original birth (or event) moment. 

The information that CCG maps yield is very useful. Normally, astrolo- 
gers will closely watch the slower moving planets from Mars on out to Pluto 
for CCG transits (though I use the transiting Moon as a significator in an ex- 
ample that follows). The inner 'wanderers’ of Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venus 
are most watched for CCG progressions. After a first reading of the CCG situ- 
ation, subsequent reviews every year should be sufficient even for professional 
practitioners. 

As examples, by progression, the Sun will move only about one degree 
eastward a year. This translates to about 55 miles on your earth map at tem- 
perate latitudes. The progressed Moon would move about the same eastward 
distance of 55 miles monthly, making it the most interesting progressed planet 
to follow over a period of time. Progressed Mars would move about 40 miles 
east in a year but it or any planets would be moving westward if they were 
retrograde. 

As with the basic ACG map, CCG maps can supply us with informa- 
tion that sometimes seems astounding in its symbolism. Figures 17, I8 and 19 


26 


Figure 17 


are CCG maps for me (aligned to my ACG birth map) at the moment of my 
daughter Simone’s birth in Bedale, North Yorkshire in May 1988. I assisted in 
her home birth; it was truly a memorable time for me. Figure 17 isa CCG map 
of my transits. It shows that the transiting (CCG) Moon MC line was almost 
direcdy over the birth location at that moment”. That certainly speaks of emo- 
tional involvement and domestic concerns as well as the possibility of atten- 
tion issues. Jeff Jawer writes of this configuration, "You become the mother of 
the world..." 

Figure 18 is a map of my CCG secondary progressions at that moment 
showing Mars rising right over the birth location (not bad symbolism as my 
name is Martin - for Mars - and I was born on a Tuesday, the Mars day). And 
yes, I was physically energised there, feeling boisterous yet physically clumsy 
holding a new born infant in my arms. 

Figure 19 is my CCG map for the tertiary progressions at that moment’. 
Here we see that both the tertiary Sun and Moon setting lines were very close 
to a perfect paran for the birth location/moment. Father (Sun) and daughter 
(Moon) in partnership (setting or descending). A perfect symbolism. 


Which side of an ACG line is best? 

Jim Lewis’ material indicated that his clients sometimes found living on one 
side of an angular line was better for them than the other. Why might this be? 
The key idea is that the houses adjoining the angular lines can also be placed 


27 


Figure 18 


Figure 19 


28 


wer 


Cs {Owe Oth 
House | House 
Far ak } 


Figure 20 


on the map. With that in mind, Figure 20 shows us the house positions located 
on each side of an ACG line. The angular lines of culminating (MC), anti- 
culminating (IC), rising (ascending) and setting (descending) can each be seen 
as the boundary lines (house cusps) between two houses !. Living on one side 
of a line versus living on the other brings this house division effect into play. 
As shown in Figure 20, locations to the right (east) of the MC line, for exam- 
ple, are in what can be considered the ninth house, approaching the MC it- 
self. So here, for example, we would encounter an MC type of effect - but 
coloured with 9* house issues. On this side of the MC line your public role 
would be strongly influenced by the prevalent cultural, legal, educational or 
religious institutions. People from these institutions would have great effect in 
assisting you to establish yourself. One finds oneself moving towards taking 
on a public mantle. Living on the other (west) side of the MC line, however, 
would mean a prominent 10* house effect to the MC energy. Here you will 
find yourself more on your own, your public persona already in operation and 
dealing directly with the issues that are arising. It's a fine point to be sure but 
an issue to keep in mind when evaluating locations. Some guidelines on evalu. 
ating east-west positioning follow: 


29 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


MC Line: social, career and reputation issues 

Right of line (east) - 9° house influence. Legal issues may arise (caution!) 
but metaphysical ones too are possible. Moving towards your public role with 
the input from others, usually from diverse sources. 

Left of line (west) -10* house influence. Outward aspects of life are high- 
lighted. Dealings with parents come into focus. Personal authority and respon- 
sibility for activities and projects emerge. 


IC Line: inner, intimate personal life and concerns 

Right of line - 3* house influence. Your personal issues are influenced by 
your immediate surroundings and your interactions with your friends, 
neighours, relatives and business associates. Activity and an increased life 
tempo. 

Left of line - 4* house influence. Much more inward focus on your personal 
life. Issues of home, family and parents become paramount. You might be 
required to confront issues of your origins and past history, necessitating a new 
personal narrative for yourself. 


Rising Line: direct, outward personal expression 

Right of line - 12% house influence. Events may force you to focus on the 
real intent or hidden agenda for your actions. You will be required to get in 
touch with your subconscious mind to prevent yourself acting against your 
own best interests. 

Left of line - V house influence. Active projection of your personality and 
lots of subjective self expression. Events allow you to express and experience 
yourself strongly, but watch that relations with others don’t suffer. 


Setting Line: one-to-one encounters with others become the way 
you learn and function best 

Right of line - 6* house influence. Your encounters focus mostly on day-to- 
day work, vocational and health issues. You may not be the one giving orders 
here but the experience will help you to manage your life. 

Left of line - 7* house influence. You form working units with others for a 
variety of purposes and through them you will learn about the effects you have 
on others. A good location to receive business, vocational or personal coun- 
selling or input from others. 


ACG and the Sidereal Zodiac 

ACG is a specific and an observable technique. It can however side-step the 
tropical vs. sidereal debate among astrologers. Regardless of the zodiac that is 
employed, the angular positions of the planets over the earth and their rela- 
tionship to the angles in our relocated charts, both remain true. This means 


30 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


that both Western siderealists and practitioners of Eastern Vedic astrology’? can 
bring the full depth of their crafts to astrolocality astrology. 

Dennis Flaherty makes a case for employing the extra information when 
evaluating ACG maps from the Vedic perspective *. He has had success rec- 
ommending locations to clients depending upon the ruling planets of their 
planetary periods (Dasa Bhuktis). Also, he uses Vedic principals to tell him 
more about the quality of the life experience they might have living near to 
or visiting various lines. 

Let's have a look at this: planets in Vedic astrology actually have a pre- 
ferred angle where they gain their greatest strength. This indicator is called 
dik balaor directional strength. It means that although all planets gain strength 
(significance of life events) at angular positions, they become even more pow- 
erful at specific ones. According to the sage Parasara, the following is appro- 
priate: 


Planetary Strength Positions 


Mercury and Jupiter rising (ascending) 


Moon and Venus anticulminating (IC) 
Saturn setting (descending) 
Sun and Mars culminating (MC) 


So, Eastern or Western, tropical or sidereal, we can watch for enhanced op- 
eration of planets at these specific alignments. 

Alas, Vedic astrology is a complex craft and positives can be overruled 
by other, debilitating factors. For example, although my home location here 
in Scodand is on the strong Jupiter rising line (see planetary strength above), 
it is weakened in Vedic terms because of the sidereal Libra ascendant of my 
natal chart (ruling inauspicious natal houses). This might mean that I can ex- 
pect some of the more problematic characteristics of the position as well as 
the better things that Jupiter lines provide. 


Bringing it all Together 

There is an anecdotal story which, as I recall, goes something like this: a young 
man stops an older man, a stranger, on a street in central Manhattan, asking 
him for directions to a famous concert hall. The stranger just happens to be a 
noted performing violinist The young man asks, "Sir, excuse me, do you know 
the way to Carnegie Hall?" The older man replies, "Practice, son, practice." 
And so it is with becoming proficient in employing ACG maps. Start with your 
own map if possible and those of your friends and loved ones. Notice the 
correlation between where you have travelled and what events actually tran- 
spired. Explore the world of other authors’ writings about ACG. Books are 
available that are rich in examples and descriptive material. Listed randomly, 
here are some good sources: 


31 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


The Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps by Lewis & Guttman'* (Llewellyn 
Publications, 1989). May be out of print; too good not to be reprinted one day. 


Wherein the World with Astro*Carto*Graphy by David Meadows (AFA, 
publication due to be published late 1999). An explanation of ACG and a var- 
ied and comprehensive listing of ACG examples. 


The Psychology of Astro*Carto*Graphy by Lewis & Irving (Arkana, 1997). The 
definitive work of Lewis’ approach and interpretations, with a strong psycho- 
logical orientation. 


Navigating by the Starsby Hathaway (Llewellyn Publications, 1991). Many 
good examples, maps fully explained. 


Working With Astrology by Harding & Harvey, (Arkana, 1990). See Chap- 
ter 17; all major points covered in one comprehensive chapter. 


ACG & CCG booklets that come with ‘official’ commercial maps. A fine source 
for Lewis’ thinking about ACG and CCG. 


Astrology on the Move by Sasha Fenton, (Zambezi Publishing, 1998). Insight 
ful portrayal of ACG locations. 


Where in the World? Astro*Carto*Graphy and Relocation by Erin Sullivan, 
CPA Press 1999. (Not reviewed but should be good for students and profes- 
sionals.) 


The Lewis and Irving book, The Psychology of Astro*Carto*Graphy (listed above), 
brings home the important point that we don't experience all of our lines 
equally, nor can their influence always be predicted in a standard cookbook 
fashion. This is discussed in Chapter 3, page 34, 'Shadowed Planets: Stages of 
Psychological Growth’. Also helpful is Table 1, found on page 39, ‘Possible 
indicators of a shadowed planet', where the authors list eight possible plan- 
etary problems or shadows. They believe that shadowed planets will encoun- 
ter more resistance from the ego, thereby making them more likely to mani- 
fest as difficult events at ACG, angular locations. This chapter is recommended 
reading, especially for those planning to approach ACG interpretations from 
a psychological perspective. 

An unaspected (or least-aspected) planet is one possible indicator of a 
shadowed planet that might present difficulty in the expression of its energy. 
Robert Couteau believes these planets have ‘transcendental’ implications for 
individuals. He has done ACG research on this with the results, notable for 
their detail, presented on his web site’. The general principle is: The experi- 
ences we have of specific planetary lines are influenced by the condition of the specific 
planets in our natal chart. 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


One's Venus line, for example, isn't always a site for fun and beauty, but can 
be a location where we indulge to a degree that could later be regretted. Or 
moving to a Jupiter line might not result in any noticeable good luck. Or a 
Saturn line can be just what we need to get a difficult job done rather than it 
bringing delay or being an impediment. 

Ifa planet has difficult aspects to it, the energies of the aspects are car- 
ried along to manifest at the earth location of the planet in question. My natal 
Mars squares my natal Sun, for example. When living on my Sun MC line in 
Philadelphia, I did truly advance in my business and sporting careers, but 
always with the problems, long hours and extra effort associated with the 
exhaustive assertion of a square from Mars. My Sun line locations will always 
carry the bite of that square from Mars, and I can expect that at my Mars line 
locations I will be challenged by solar, growth-type issues. 

ACG gives us a measure of the type of experience that will transpire at 
various locations on earth. Next we will be looking at the fascinating astrologi- 
cal tool of Local Space for determining our personally sensitive earth directions. 
We shall then be able to see how both location and direction are considera- 
tions when finding our place as we roam planet Earth. 


NOTES 


1. Angel Thompson calls this process "taking planets from the sky". Michael Harding 
and Charles Harvey in their book Working with Astrology (Arkana 1990) note that the 
"image of the symbol of a planet somehow embedding itself in the surface of the earth" 
is so striking that it "demands its own language" to portray it. They choose James 
Joyce's word “geoglyphy” to describe this physical expression of planets in the world 
(see Chapter I7, titled Astro*Carto*Graphy, page 314). 


2. The great astrologer Dane Rudhyar suggested that one day we should incorporate 
information about celestial bodies at the zenith of our birth moment/locations in our 
astrological analyses. This is because any such body would be beaming down on the 
top of our head - our crown chakra - at birth. The fixed star Ettanin (the gamma of 
Draco), for example, is almost at the zenith of Greenwich and is sometimes called the 
zenith Star. 


3. Mundane comes from the Latin ‘mundus’ meaning ‘world’. Therefore we use the 
term 'Mundane astrology’ to study charts of countries, regions and public events. 


4. From 'AstroMaps Hi Res’ User's Guide, Matrix Software, 1989. Jim Lewis on 
Astro*Carto*Graphy, page 91. 


5. It is usually necessary to first change the local time of the chart to the equivalent 
GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) to maintain the proper, universal, birth time-time zone 
combination, as the chart is relocated to new longitudes and latitudes. Computer pro- 
grams will do this automatically in their calculations. 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


6. Astro Computing Services (ACS, San Diego, USA) provides quality maps with 
additional lines showing aspects to angles. 1 find it helpful to have this information, 
especially for square, trine and sextile lines to planetary midheaven (MH) positions, 
and therefore recommend them. 1 use Matrix Software's DOS program, Prima, for 
this. Though this feature may exist in a Windows program somewhere, | haven't found 
one that has it. Jim Lewis believed that these lines couldn't be as strong as angular 
ones. He and some practitioners today feel that they are ‘incorrect’ unless specifically 
calculated by ecliptic ascension (rather than equatorial ascension). 


7. This useful planet-house feature for relocated planets can be found in the Win*Maps 
module of Matrix Software's Win*Star v.2, by programmer Stephen Erlewine, and in 
the DOS program Prima, by programmer Vladimir Bogdanov. An appreciative thank- 
you to both of them for this helpful new Astrolocality tool. 


8. There are three official sources: in Great Britain: Equinox, at the Astrology Shop, 
Covent Garden, London; in the USA: Astro Numeric Services, Ashland Oregon; and 
in Continental Europe: Astro Data, Zurich, Switzerland. 1fand when an ACG or CCG 
map is purchased, be sure to include the ACG or CCG booklet in your order. The 
55-page CCG booklet for example, contains the fullest discussion on CCG transits 
and progressions that is published anywhere. 


9. Note that because we are dealing with a CCG map (which is aligned to my birth 
ACG map), the Moon was not physically overhead at Simone's birth moment. (As- 
tronomically it was over continental Europe at that time.) Rather, the Moon was over- 
head (or on the MC) of her birth location as seen from my ACG map . This isn’t an 
easy concept to visualise but for now keep in mind that CCG information is aligned 
to the ACG map parameters. 


10. A thank-you to programmer Graham Dawson of Esoteric Technologies (Australia) 
for including tertiary progressions in the CCG module of Solar Maps. As a result of 
this, tertiaries are another tool available in CCG investigations. 


Il. A few house-division systems don't hold to this rule. With Equal houses, the MC 
is not usually the 10° house cusp; and with the Meridian system, the ascendant is not 
the first-house cusp. But these and a few others are exceptions and their lines too could 
be plotted on an ACG map. 


12. Called ‘Jyotish’, a Sanskrit word meaning 'the knowledge of light’. 


13. See his article in The Mountain Astrologer magazine, Aug/Sept 1997 issue, ‘Jyotish 
Locality’. 


14. Jim Lewis and Arielle Guttman created what is probably the the best ACG data 
reference work available today in this collaborative work. Arielle is a leading ACG 
practitioner, teaching, lecturing and consulting on it in the USA and overseas. A full 
list of her services can be seen on her website http://www.arielle.com/ 


ASTROLOCALITY AND ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY 


She can also be contacted at Astro Originals, PO Box 15006, Santa Fe, NM 87506. 
15. Donna Cunningham is a relocation consulatant with a master's degree in social 
work from Columbia University. She brings over 30 years experience to her counsel- 
ling and lecturing and is the author of 12 books. Her web site features her ‘All Star 
Relocation Staion', with much information for effective relocation. The site address 
is http://www.integrityonline/smoothmove/ 


lf you have decided on a region of the USA where you wish to move and are 
looking for just the right place, do check out her link to helpful books on relocation. 


16. Robert's web site is: http://members.tripod.com/~ astr_couteau/astro02.htm/ 
He presents about 80 ‘transcendental’ biographies comprising ACG charts, a bio- 
graphical synopsis for each individual and his explanation of their transcendental ACG 
lines. 1 leave it to the reader to decide upon the validity of his hypothesis as it is well 
explained. The web site is a valuable resource for data, short biographies and the ACG 
maps of notables and events. 


CHAPTER TWO 


Local Space; Using LS charts, chart maps and maps; Shifting aspect patterns 


LOCAL SPACE 


Local Space (LS) is a unique blend of the old and new. It is a technique in its 
own right, using both maps and charts, as well as a potent partner with ACG 
in giving us much Astrolocality information. The very fact that Local Space is 
available to us today is the result of the work of Michael and Margaret Erlewine, 
who formulated and developed the technique in a solo effort that compares 
with that of Jim Lewis’ independent development of ACG. 

Michael's interest in various co-ordinate systems (including the Helio- 
centric perspective) goes back to early in his career. In his book Astrophysical 
Directions, published in 1977, he alerts astrologers to the critical role played by 
the equatorial and horizon systems, which, along with the ecliptic, combine 
to give us the parameters of our natal and event charts. Michael credits the 
works of astrologer Edward Johndro in the early 1930’s as an inspiration for a 
‘living-system’ or separate-reality-view approach to understanding co-ordinate 
systems. He also cites astrologer Charles Jayne for his work on co-ordinate 
systems, dedicating Astrophysical Directions to him. It was Jayne who encour- 
aged Michael to investigate the entire plane of the horizon system, for exam- 
ple, and not just the two points of it that intersect the ecliptic in the east and 
west becoming the ascendant and descendant of our natal charts’. Michael and 
Margaret took up Jayne's challenge with much enthusiasm (and hard work), 
and the result is the technique of Local Space. 

Local Space is based on a horizon system view rather than the usual 
ecliptic perspective and, as such, it points to the very heart of astrology itself. 
There is evidence that the horizon perspective is the most ancient of our as- 
trological roots. In fact, it may have been the original system of astrology, 
working like this: the rising or setting of a certain star on the horizon in a speci- 
fied direction would signal the commencement of communal activities and 
social rituals. In today's world it is our computers that allow us to employ the 
same system and to personalise this information for ourselves — then use it — 


LOCAL SPACE 


acting for our individual growth and satisfaction. 

A startling characteristic of this system or orientation is that, uncoupled 
from the usual ecliptic view, absolutely any object that we can locate in the 
universe, be it in our homes or neighbourhoods or the planets and even out 
in deep space, has an equal and valid location. The important consideration 
is the object's direction in space relative to the observer, who at any moment 
remains the centre of the system. (In truth, isn’t this the way we experience our 
world as either ‘up and down! from where we are, as well as all around us?) 


What is the Local Space, or Horizon system? 

If we were to stand in a field (with our view unobstructed by hills or build- 
ings, and so on) and slowly turn completely about, we could perceive a circle 
around us where the earth appears to meet the sky. This ‘small’ circle is called 
the visible or apparent horizon. It would have a radius of about 7 miles *. 

Let us now imagine a smooth, flat plane connecting where we stand to 
the edges of the visible horizon. That plane is the fundamental plane of Local 
Space astrology. Direcdy above the observer is the zenith; direcdy below, the 
nadir. Where we stand is at the centre or anchor point of this system. Every- 
thing that then appears to us can be located relative to our horizon using the 
co-ordinates of azimuth and altitude. Though these terms may be new to us, 
they are not difficult to comprehend: 


« Azimuth is ‘this system's equivalent to our familiar zodiacal longitude. 
It is measured in 360-degree notation around the edge of our horizon. In 
astrological use we start in the east direction (similar to the usual ecliptic 
ascendant) 0 degrees, moving north and around the circle. Azimuth meas- 
urement proceeds therefore in the same direction in which we move 
through the signs and houses of our traditional astrological charts. 


¢ Altitude is the measurement in degrees of location above or below the 
horizon. It is similar by analogy to ecliptic latitude. Altitude is measured 
from the horizon to the poles of this system, which are called the zenith for 
the point direcdy over the observer and the nadir for the point direcdy 
below (literally on the other side of the globe). 


There are a few reference books available that explain the geometry of Local 
Space and/or the horizon system in some detail. Here are a some tides, listed 
at random: 


Essentials of Intermediate Astrology, an NCGR publication, 1995, compiled 
by Alphee Lavoie and edited by Lorraine Welsh. Sixteen illustrated 
essays including two of interest here, Local Space by Cozzi & Munkasey 
and Astronomy for Astrologers by Munkasey. 


38 


LOCAL SPACE 


Astrophysical Directions, by Michael & Margaret Erlewine, 1977, available 
from Matrix Software. 


The Astrologer's Astronomical Handbook, by Jef{Mayo, 1982,L.N.Fowler&Co. 


Planets in Locality, by Steve Cozzi, recently reprinted by AFA publica- 
tions, 1997. Steve's book was the first and is still the only one available 
in English which is completely about Local Space. Many of his insights 
are reflected in this book. 


De Astrologische Windoos, by Karen Hamaker-Zondag, 1993, Symbolon. 
This is in Dutch. Chapter 13, written by Hans Hamaker, is a complete 
explanation of Local Space geometry, including the mathematical for- 
mulae. 


What does Local Space information tell us? 
The Local Space (horizon) system perspective is unique in that it is specifically 
location centred. It gives us an idea of the 'what is’ for us at a place. The view 
doesn't speak as much of future growth or potential as it does of the here-and-now 
of things; the existential situation we would find there and feel in our guts. 

Michael Erlewine writes in detail about both the development and his 
view of the Local Space technique in two essential essays’, both reprinted here 
in Appendix 4. He states, "The Local Space chart can show a concrete, meas- 
urable relationship of the individual to a place" and, "In a word, here is per- 
haps the most vulgar astrological system, where the obvious is enthroned and 
the subtle unnecessary**. 

Steve Cozzi states that when using Local Space indicators, what you see 
is what you get” and Angel Thompson says of them, "You feel it You live it". 

Michael saw Local Space as an ideal response to the dynamic quality of 
modern life. He writes that our roaming "has to do with action and outreach 
on our part" .... "bringing out needed energies at one place and time, moving 
elsewhere for another life episode at another time". He observed that individu- 
als tend to move toward cities that are in the directions representing the par- 
ticular kind of energy required at the time, and that basically, “many people 
were concerned with where they might live in order to bring their self into some 
resonant and satisfying focus®”. 


A key point 

Unlike ACG, which uses the same map to investigate all earth locations at once, 
we have a more subde (and perhaps complex) approach in working with the 
Local Space technique: Yes, we always employ the natal Local Space data for 
its vital information; but alongside that, werelocate as well, recalculating the Local 
Space charts and/or maps for each of the subject's new locations’. A complete Local 
Space analysis, therefore, can be a combination of both natal and relocated 


39 


LOCAL SPACE 


data. The use of either or both natal and relocated data will be illustrated in 
the examples to follow. 

As this chapter develops, we shall see how Local Space becomes a tool 
to measure and guide our ‘action and outreach’ as we move about the globe, 
identifying those planets brought to the angles of cardinal direction and/or the 
horizon for each new location. We shall also investigate the direction of all lines 
(not just the angular ones) to determine the experiences expected from the 
paths we might be drawn to when entering or leaving our home, our city, our 
country, or locations around the whole planet. 


LS astrology with our natal or event planets 
Let us now see how we integrate the Local Space perspective with planetary 
positions in the sky: 

If we were to walk outside at this or any moment, we might be aware 
that the Sun or Moon or various planets were all in specific directions from 
where we stood. We could then draw imaginary lines across the earth in the 
directions of each and all of them (ignoring their planetary altitude for the 
moment). These lines, when extended, would become great circles on our 
globe circling back to us. See Figure 21. They would pass through nearby and 
distant cities, expressing the type of energy we would encounter if we moved 
on them. This briefly is what Local Space astrology is all about, whether we 
are considering the planets or deep space objects or even specific terrestrial 
objects around us. 

Local Space astrology is a mapping or representation of these directional 
alignments. In LS charts and maps we work with the lines of direction which 
connect the observer to the planets (or other objects) around him (her). Hence 
we may say that Local Space astrology is directional in its essence, while ACG 
is locational. 

Our own Local Space natal chart is based on the directions of the plan- 
ets around us at the moment of birth relative to the plane of the horizon. Local 
Space charts are valid for use up to about 50 miles, since the directional vec- 
tors are straight lines to that point. Local Space maps are a plotting of these 
same directional indicators on earth maps (as great circles) across significant 
distances. We use them for distances above 50 miles, since the lines of direc- 
tion begin to curve on our 2-dimensional earth maps. 

At this point it would be helpful to review Figure 2 of the previous chap- 
ter. I stated there that this illustration might be 'the most important in the whole 
book as all else will follow from or be added to it’. 

It is a picture of the planetary alignments in zenith position looking down 
onto the earth at the moment of my birth. Keeping in mind how the ACG lines 
were added to it, let's now see what the LS perspective would be for the same 
moment in time. 


peat Fo peeve 
eg Pe 


ae 


LOCAL SPACE 


Figure 22 is the LS map for my birth moment corresponding to Figure 2. From 
it we can note the following: 


* How all the lines originate from my birth location in St Louis, Mis- 
souri, such that there must be lines of direction there. This is not so in 
the ACG technique, where one’s birth place or an event location may 
have no lines at all. 


* How the lines radiate outward from my birth location toward and 
through each planet's zenith position on the earth. The lines themselves 
are great circles but are curved on the flat-map representation. (Figure 
21 showed my LS lines on a globe as the great circles that they are.) 


¢ Looking at Figure 22 again, note how the lines all come together for 
me in the Indian Ocean southwest of Australia. This location is my 
earth's natal nadir point. If I actually journeyed there, it would be the 
location where my most public and personal points (my relocated chart's 
MC and IC) would be reversed. Here I would experience the equiva- 
lent of a ‘reverse flush’, since my former public role, tendencies and 
issues (MC/10th house) would now become the most private ones in my 
life (IC/4th house) and vice versa. 


Local Space Charts 

Figure 23 shows my natal Local Space chart The positions of the planets around 
the wheel are real representations of the directions of the planets that were 
around me (in degrees of azimuth) at the moment of my birth. Note that the 
chart itself is displayed with planetary positions in the style of a compass, 
though it could be shown more traditionally with houses and zodiacal nota- 
tion as well (East would become 0 Aries)°. 

This chart is really appropriately named 'Local Space’, for the directions 
are accurate within a radius of about 50 miles from my birth location. Figure 
24 includes a box showing the altitude of my natal planets from my birth ho- 
rizon. An altitude of or near 0 indicates that a planet was near the horizon. 
Not many planets were near it at my birth. Uranus was closest being just 4 de- 
grees below. This corresponds with Uranus in the 6th house (just below the 
Descendant) of my natal chart. 

A keen review of Figure 23 will show that in this LS (the horizon sys- 
tem) perspective, some of my natal aspects are now changed! Whereas in my 
natal (ecliptic) chart for St Louis, Saturn and Venus were in harmonious trine 
(within a 6-degree orb), from the LS perspective they are 89 degrees apart or 
in a tight disharmonious square. That is, this angular relationship is different 
in Local Space, giving valuable information about the actual (difficult) quality 


oak Aspects: Sscaes! 
SSR LAHS® | fter® {ahs [OOF 
Rov |OTY 1IDPh | 20h [DOg 


Local Space Chart 
M Davis 

Sept 07 1937 

Saint Louis, Mo. 
10:58:00 AM CST 
Zone: +06:00 
090W 12'00" 

\ 38N37'00" 


SOUTH HORIZON 


LMT: 
UT: 


0°14's 
°26'a 
2°01's 
2° 16's 
2°35'a 
3°42's 
5°42's 
5°62'a 
5°56's 
7°49'a 
7°53's 


ST: 
RAMC: 
DeltaT: 


Figure 24 


23.67- 


10:57:12 
16:58:00 


UT-LMT: 06:00:48 
10nh02m36s 


150°39" 


Local S 


Se 

Saint 
10:58:01 
Zo 
0! 


a ST 
©] 296° 47'| +54° 39" 
9 {305° 1471 42° 23° 
9 [225° 44't463° 27' 
0+ 347° 04" 1- 25° 30" 
4 011° 53'|-51° 17" 
2] 137° 10'1-41° 48° 
Wi] 155° 47° |- 04° 48' J 
‘#7 ]302° 39°11 +52° 34' 
@|204° 46.461° 13° 
A |346° 50'}- 19° 15! 
® [352° 46'!- 29° 35" 
} &| 184° 03'[434° O7" 


of events for me at that location. Furthermore, the possible shifting of aspect 
patterns is an important characteristic of Local Space charts, which I shall cover 
separately with examples. I will show how aspects change for us in Local Space 
as we move about the globe, our LS alignments readjusting for each new place. 
This powerful but unusual characteristic of LS charts is, unfortunately, little 
used in astrology today. I have enclosed an article by consulting astrologer Sean 
Lovatt in Appendix 5 which discusses this factor’. 


LOCAL SPACE 


Chart Maps 

Figure 25 is my natal LS chart map. Chart map? What's that about? This is the 
same chart as in Figure 23, but it has been turned upside down to give it amap's 
orientation. Now the north is truly pointing north or up, as it would on a map's 
representation. East is now as it would be on a map too, pointing to our right. 
This upside-down reversal is necessary for northern-hemisphere locations, 
where the MC's (the top) of our natal charts are actually pointing in the earth's 
southerly direction”, 


NORTH HORIZON Local Space Map Chart 
M.Davis 

Sept 07 1937 
Saint Louis, Mo. 
10:58:00 AM CST 
Zone: +06:00 
090W 12'00" 
38N37'00" 


Figure 25 


The need for this reversal can be a difficult concept for students of LS the first 
time they encounter it. A study of the various co-ordinate-system perspectives 
can clarify things, but for now let's see it as this: if a birth chart of a northern- 
hemisphere location has the Sun (or any planet) on the MC for example, that 
planet is actually geographically south of the observer. If we wished the LS 
perspective to correspond with a map's orientation, the chart would have to 
be reversed so that the MC were pointing down or south. If the chart were 
calculated for a southern-hemisphere location, the MC-IC orientation is cor- 
rect as shown. That is, the Sun on the MC is already truly pointing north, as 
one would be looking northward to see it. (To get a southern-hemisphere LS 
chart completely in a map orientation, however, we would have to flip it around 
too, but left to right only, so that the east would point to the right as on a map.) 
Transformations from LS charts to LS chart maps can be handled by compu- 


45 


LOCAL SPACE 


ter software for both northern- and southern-hemisphere charts, so this is less 
of a problem than it may seem to be. 

Why do we utilise these turned-around, so-called chart maps? In a later 
section we will see how our LS chart maps can be used as directional guides 
in our homes, neighbourhoods and cities. When used together with LS maps, 
which are needed for broader regions and the world itself, they truly help us 
to 'think globally and act locally’, a phrase one sees in today's ecological lit- 
erature. 


Let's not forget the Magic! 

Astrology itself has been called 'the round art"’, and this is especially perti- 
nent for LS charts. LS circles offer us a view of the directions of planets (or 
other objects) around us. The directions are totally earth orientated to our im- 
mediate horizon and the earth's major directions: north, south, east and west 
This Local Space view is strikingly similar to the circles created in the mys- 
tery traditions. The use of such circles can be found in native American vi- 
sion quests and other important rituals. In fact, various systems of sorcery 
(enabling one's personal power), shamanism (healing and mediation with spirit 
beings), and alchemical magic (energy transformation) contain practices that 
have the subject sitting at the centre of a ‘power’ circle, carefully noting and 
responding to the direction from which animals, people and various natural 
phenomena manifest or come and go. 

The philosophical and practical qualities of Local Space also seem to 
merge with those of another system, the Chinese directional art of Feng Shui. 
Feng Shui is practised and respected in parts of the East today. In Hong Kong, 
for example, Feng Shui practitioners are consulted and work with architects 
on building layout and design. 

The directional information that we can acquire from Local Space bears 
a striking similarity to what one hopes to obtain from the systems mentioned 
above. Steve Cozzi, in his book Local Space Astrology, develops the theme that 
Local Space astrology is in fact a true and authentic form of Western geomancy 
in a personalised form. 

The powerful correlation of Local Space with the magic traditions was 
quickly recognised by the Erlewines. Michael states this direcdy, “..the visible 
horizon being much like a magical circle...” and poetically, “I must confess, a 
somewhat magical view of our world begins to emerge: one in which every 
city and friend becomes a radiating centre of influence. Here for the first time 
the long history of magic, witchcraft and sorcery takes on a practical reality, 
where local deities and preferred directions become the rule, and we are thrust 
forever beyond the threshold of the just slightly remarkable...'?” 


LOCAL SPACE 


What do we look for in Local Space charts? 
In those pre-computer days of the 1970’s, Michael worked with his calculator 
to create Local Space charts for himself, his family and clients. He noticed that: 


¢ For a given location, those planets close to the major directions of 
north, south, east and west gave the corresponding planetary energies 
special, enhanced influence in his and his client's lives. 


¢ Planets on or near to the visible horizon for a location brought their 
corresponding influence into ‘focus’. 


¢ He and his clients tended to travel or relocate exactly on the lines 
describing their planetary directions. 


These insights proved to be major breakthroughs, as up to this point nobody 
had realised that: 


Horizon system planetary positions were important as a relocation tool. 


A planet's direction in azimuth degrees could be plotted as a line on a map of 
the earth's surface, connecting it to people and places. 


USING LOCAL SPACE CHARTS, CHART MAPS 
AND MAPS 


Local Space charts 
These are best used to give us an idea of the quality of experience we might 
have at our natal and relocated locations. What should we look for in them? 


Angularity 
Shifting aspect patterns and 
The altitude of the planets 


Angularity 

With our natal and/or relocated LS charts in hand, we first look for planets 
brought to the angles of north, south, east and west, just as we would for a 
regular natal or relocated ecliptic chart if we had planets on the MCTC or 
ascendant-descendant axes. A planet near one of the cardinal directions of a 
LS chart (plus or minus 5 degrees is a usual orb, but I often use a bigger, 10- 
degree orb) will be of special importance in that locality. A planet's influence 
will be significantly increased. The qualities of that planet will be substantiated 
or endowed with power there. This empowerment means that either or both: 


47 


LOCAL SPACE 


* Corresponding events, as well as talents, abilities and interests are 
likely to manifest. 


* Corresponding objects and materials are likely to become available 
at that location when they are needed. 


Now, let's develop the theme of what we should expect when planets in natal 
LS charts are found to be angular and/or planets in the relocated Local Space 
charts are brought to the angles at new locations. See Appendix 2, where I list 
and describe these planetary effects. 


Note 

In most instances, the east and west directions of Local Space will not be iden- 
tical to rising/setting ACG lines or to the ascendant-descendant axis of the 
normal natal or event-based chart. These east and west points usually represent com- 
pletely new information and should therefore be carefully noted ®.Some examples 
should bring this idea of Local Space angularity (cardinal direction) into sharper 
focus. 


Angularity in Local Space charts: four examples 


1, A natal LS chart: Simone de Beauvoir 

Figure 26 is Simone de Beauvoir's (1908-1986) birth chart. Born in Paris, she 
took a degree in philosophy at the Sorbonne in 1929, placing second to Jean- 
Paul Sartre. A novelist, essayist and playwright her work The Second Sex stands 
as the first landmark in the modern feminist wave that transformed percep- 
tions of the relationship between men and women in our time. The Second Sex 
remains an outstanding work, combining anthropology, sociology, biology and 
psychoanalysis. 

A quick reading of her chart shows a formidable grouping of Uranus, the 
South Node, Mercury and the Sun, all in Capricorn. This promises a unique 
talent, a desire for serious expression and well-crafted communicating skills. 
In the second house, this potent configuration indicates a need for her to ex- 
press her values and concerns. As this conjunction is opposed by idealistic, 
mass-influencing Neptune, we see this expression directed to those issues which 
were affecting the entire culture. With her Jupiter in the ninth house she be- 
came the teacher and inspirer of the generation of feminists that were to fol- 
low. The Saturn square Pluto could indicate inner turmoil relating to the pow- 
erlessness she felt as a woman in French society and her resulting life decision 
to change this. 

Figure 27 is the Local Space chart for her birth place and home in Paris. 
What does this chart add? Can we see from it how and why she was able to 
materialise her potential at this location? 


48 


oe eI 17 go. 
ll as eee - re 
< 09° tage ‘54 
ca ° Py 
| nm ae 
i eae ‘54° ‘ 14° , 
eee / 13° &_08° 
/02° fi Ps Sera jae R22" S 23°" \57' 
pe Mee oO 1019 A Fig er 28 
oo FA ~~ B\ ee 
a a / ~Y Simone de Beauvoir» ~ 
‘26° /1 2; Jan 09, 1908 7 \ \26° 
i ; Paris, France i is i 
et [4 04:00:00 AM ZOO FO ae 
(05"\ Vay ZONE: -00:09 /6; 105", 
ae ye 002E20'00" ae te : 
: » 48N52'00" coe 
Z 5 
‘ v3053: i 3 Sa ; / 
20°. age yg tga Zo 4 ~. {51 
ra 14° ara a te] 
57. Ua.’ Soa 263441 02° 
on s 13% x . 
© 4 ae |222829 7 oe 
22° 6 : i . 
54 Sool FD sat 
Tae = 16° 177 e 
Figure 26 
SOUTH HORIZON Local Space Chart 
Simone de Beauvoir 


“st eer, 
a ake Jan 09 1908 
an ele So, Paris, France 
ca — 04:00:00 AM ZOO 
Sa 266° sy 002E20'00" 
45° 


v4 4 
od 4 a 48N52'00" 
6° % 


21 \ 


49" Ye 


7 
or 1S" - H 
so ter Y pepe 
46' 473° g # i 
ia if 
- { 
é 
q 450," 
ou 14 a f 
tos *"° << vA 
099 > <4 a 
he et oe 
ie ae a 
as "Rete perpen : oo 
ie oe 
oe ee caer 
NORTH 
Figure 27 


49 


LOCAL SPACE 


East power 

Firstly we can note that her potent Uranus, Mercury, South Node, and Sun con- 
junction has east power. In her Local Space chart for Paris, they sit very closely 
to the earth's cardinal direction of east. Uranus and Mercury, though a degree 
apart in the normal radix, come together, conjoining by only 1 minute of arc 
in Local Space (increasing the potency of the combination), and both together 
are fewer than 4 degrees of azimuth from the east direction. This — with the 
Sun - is truly east power! That ‘what is’ for her Uranus, for example, would 
indicate that there in Paris she would find the will, courage and vision to be a 
reformer — or a trouble-maker, depending on your point of view. She would 
also have the mercurial language skills to express herself there. Cozzi writes 
of Mercurv in the east that “circnamstances continually prompt you to say what 
you feel and speak your mind”. South Node in the east might indicate that 
she was supported by many (she was actually the darling of the Parisian intel- 
lectuals and cafe society), and her eastern Sun (still in loose orb) might tell us 
that from Paris she naturally commanded a leadership role, which was impor- 
tant for her own personal development as well. Get the idea? The placement 
of those planets (and nodal point) in the east of her Local Space chart empow- 
ered her efforts there to call upon her talents and find the necessary tools (and 
audience) to accomplish her objectives. 


What can we say about her west power? 

Neptune (an orb of 5 degrees of azimuth). Her ability to tune into the 
collective mind was a fact of that ‘what is' for her. Her relationships in Paris 
were idealistic and somewhat nebulous by any concrete standards. This was 
especially so with the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre: she was ‘entranced! by his 
ideas but found it difficult to maintain any normal cohabiting relationship. 

Pluto (an orb of about 6 degrees of azimuth). She was able (empowered) 
here to achieve a deep level of self-analysis and understanding separate from 
the backdrop of the contemporary social conditioning. She was able to ‘speak 
softly and carry a big stick’. Her life became tied up with the lives and destiny 
of all women. 


North power 

As with the placement of Saturn on the IC of our birth charts, we interpret 
this placement in Local Space as one where home-based responsibilities and 
duties begin to pile up. Home life wasn't really fetching for her and she spent 
as much time away from it as possible, in cafes with France's intellectuals and 
teaching in various academic situations. As Sartre became older and ill, she 
cared for him at home and, in Paris, she accepted more personal responsibil- 
ity, adopting a young woman there as her grown daughter. 


50 


T.OCAT. SPACE. 

2. A relocated LS chart: Martin is offered his first job 

Upon my graduation from New York University with an engineering degree, 
I was open to accept a position almost anywhere within or outside of the USA. 
In those early days of my career, when I had no work experience, only one 
job, but a promising appointment, was offered to me. It was in the city of 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Let's now look at my relocated LS chart for that 
city, in Figure 28, to see why I might have been drawn to that location. 


SOUTH HORN Local Space Chart 
aad a M.Davis Relocated 
SepT 7, 1937 
Philadelphia,PA 
04:57:59 PM GMT 
ZONE: +00:00 
075W09'00" 
39N57'00" 


Figure 28 


Even a quick review of it will show that two auspicious planets for employ- 
ment and career growth are very empowered in that city for me. First we can 
see that the Sun is exacdy in the south at 270 degrees of azimuth'®. Sun in the 
South is the position for personal growth through a public role. The other point 
of note is Jupiter, almost exacdy on the east at 2 degrees of azimuth. This place- 
ment is ideal for a location to find one's vocation or best training situation. 

Almost immediately in Philadelphia, I was given supervisory duties and 
responsibility for a multimillion-dollar process. My career flourished and, at 
least for a time, I was satisfied with this situation. 


3. LS event charts: Princess Diana 

Astrologers commenting on Diana's death in Paris have noted her natal Mars- 
Pluto conjunction, in Virgo, within an orb of about 4 degrees, as being a sig- 
nificant piece of information in attempting to understand the events surround- 
ing her violent end'®. 


51 


LOCAL SPACE 


As in our work with any type of chart, once a possible theme is uncovered in 
anatal LS chart, its signature can often be discovered in subsequent LS event 
charts as well. Are there any threads that we can follow for this Mars and Pluto 
combination? 

Figure 29 is the LS transiting chart for Paris at the reported moment of 
the crash itself, 12:25 A.M. local time. Note that Mars (a perfect symbol for a 
crash) is at 183 degrees of azimuth, or only 3 degrees from perfect alignment 
with the western direction (empowerment) at that moment!’, Note that this in- 

formation is new and unique, since Mars is 37 degrees from angularity in the usual 
ecliptic chart for the same moment Pluto in the LS crash chart moves away from 
angularity at first (197 degrees of azimuth), but follows Mars to perfect west- 
ern alignment 32 minutes after the crash at 12 hours, 57 minutes am. local time. 
Perhaps this indicates that some 32 minutes after the crash, and still without 
intensive medical intervention, her fate was sealed. 

Figure 30 is another transiting LS chart (Paris location), this time for the 
exact moment of the eclipse two days after her death It is reasonable to as- 
sume this eclipse is significant for the event, since it occurred so soon after it. 
Note that Pluto, at [79 degrees, 32 minutes of azimuth, is only 28 minutes of 
arc from exactalignment with the west. This is a perfect symbolism for a death 
prior to a rebirth, perhaps for herself and the rest of humanity as well'®. 


4. A relocated LS chart: Will Anna become a mother? 
Anna is a single, dynamic, 38-year-old woman living in London. She met a 
Brazilian man vacationing in Great Britain and was immediately attracted to 
him. Prior to meeting him again, this time at his home in Rio de Janeiro, she 
consulted me about the astrolocality indicators of her journey. The first thing 
I noticed was that her Local Space Mars map line ran right to Brazil (these 
map lines will be explained later in this book). Not surprisingly, it is frequent 
for a woman to seek and/or find a male partner on her Mars line and for a 
male to find a female mate on his Venus line. On her relocated LS chart for 
Rio, another important indicator was evident. Her Moon came exactly to the 
east of the chart at 0 azimuth. What might this mean? I told her how the is- 
sues of motherhood, family and child-rearing could arise for her there. And 
that there might even be the opportunity (wanted or unwanted) of a pregnancy. 
Upon her return she reported the following: "Motherhood issues arose 
almost immediately as my journey began. On the plane to Rio I sat next to 
some children of similar, fair complexion and the stewardesses, assuming they 
were mine, kept asking me for approval as to what and when to feed them." 
[My note: it is a known effect that while journeying to a destination with LS 
angularity, though still many miles away, you'll find that the qualities of that 
destination will begin to manifest.] Anna continued, "Upon my arrival in Rio, 
Carlos took me immediately to the home of his mother. There I was introduced 
to his three children, who, I must say, were adorable. Over the three weeks of 


52 


Local Space Chart 
Diana Crash Time 
Aug 31, 1997 
Paris, France 
12:25:00 AM CED 
ZONE: -02:00 
002E20'00" 
48N52’00" 


| WEST 


SOUTH HORIZON Local Space Chart 

a Diana, Paris Eclipse 

i : Paris, France 
01:51:54 AM EET 
Zone: -02:00 
002E20'00" 
48N52’00° 


Figure 30 


LOCAL SPACE 


my stay I became a companion to them, all but being their surrogate mother. 
Carlos pressed me to remain in Rio, to live with him and the children, and 
yes, he wanted very much for me to have his baby. I could more accurately 
say that he pressured me on this. Even his mother joined in and asked me to 
remain. I must say that under the sway of that environment, I was tempted!" 

Along with the other possible lunar issues, Sasha Fenton writes ” of an 
eastern angular Moon, "Women may decide to become mothers here or you 
may suddenly take on someone else's child at this location.... Relationships with 
mother figures would become a strong feature in your life and such relation- 
ships may be marvellous, terrible or a mixture of both, but they would be 
pervasive... To sum up, you can feel as though you have come home ... but it 
can also bring you far too close to uncomfortable emotions..." 

Anna returned to London, where her Local Space Moon moves safely 
back to its more public-oriented southerly position (10* house in her natal 
chart), hardly able to believe the sudden arising in Brazil of the motherhood 
issues she had never faced before. At this writing Anna has returned once again 
to be with Carlos and his family in Brazil. To be continued, I'm sure.... 


SHIFTING ASPECT PATTERNS 


(A remarkable characteristic of Local Space) 


An important feature of LS charts is that the angular separation (aspects) be- 
tween planets can be different from those found in the equivalent radix (ecliptic) 
chart This is due to the different perspective of each system. We shall see how 
this characteristic gives us even more information of the 'what is’ for a subject 
at a given location. For me, however, the most remarkable characteristic of 
Local Space charts is that Local Space angular separations (aspects) may change 
as we shift from location to location! This is a new concept for astrologers in 
relocation work. We usually expect squares to remain squares, for example, 
in our relocated charts, even if planetary house positions change. But now we 
can observe if squares become trines (or vice versa) and what the implications 
of this might be for one’s experience at a new location. 

Figure 31 should help to clarify this phenomenon, which is inherent in 
the Local Space (horizon) perspective. It shows a figure on earth with the plan- 
ets Mars and Saturn above, apparently in square to each other. By moving on 
the globe, however, the observer experiences a change: the two planets now 
appear to be only 45 degrees apart. The planets have not moved, just the 
observer and his/her perspective of them! 

Very few of us have much experience in working with shifting aspect 
patterns, so let's take a closer look. In general, we will work as follows: 


1. We obtain both a natal chart and the corresponding Local Space chart 
(for the natal location). 


LOCAL SPACE 


90° 45 


Figure 31 


2. We note aspects in the LS chart that may differ from those in the natal 
chart. For example, a trine between two planets in the natal chart might 
became a square in the corresponding LS chart. 


3. We will note that the subject's experience at the specific birth loca- 
tion will most likely be dominated by the LS configuration, in this ex- 
ample one of tension (the square) rather than the overall natal expecta- 
tion of a harmonious flow (the trine). Even if our study stopped here, 
we would have valuable information on the subject's real experiential 
situation. And it is noted that we might find the opposite dynamic, ie., 
a harsh natal aspect softened in the corresponding LS chart, resulting 
in a surprising ease of flow of events.. 


4. If and as we compute relocated LS charts for the individual, we may 
note that some LS angular separations will continue to change at the different 
earth locations. This will greatly assist us in finding favourable locations 
for the individual or in explaining their actual earthly experience (lik- 
ing or disliking a location) as they move about. 


5. If we are fortunate, we might even find a new site for a subject that 
would bring a difficult LS square back into trine, as will be shown be- 
low with my birth data. We might expect the subject to be drawn to such 
a location and to feel good about remaining there. 


Let's look at two specific examples here to bring this new concept into focus: 


Simone de Beauvoir - her frustration is channelled into writing 
In her natal ecliptic chart (see Figure 26), we see that she has Saturn-Pluto in 
rather tight square aspect, within an orb of less than 1 degree (89 degrees, 5 


LOCAL SPACE 


minutes). This is admittedly a difficult configuration, indicating that she would 
experience frustration at being prevented or blocked in accomplishing her 
ambitions. Pluto rules breakdown and rebuilding, so one could surmise that 
this was a driving force in her attempt to expose - and change or rebuild - 
the inequity and attitude of society towards woman in her time ”°. 

When we look at her Local Space chart for the same location of Paris 
however, (see Figure 32), we can see that this angular separation (aspect) has 
changed: It has shifted from 89 degrees to 74 degrees, weakening the square 
and bringing it closer to one of a loose quintile. For her, in Paris, the expected 
blockage was eased and a way out became possible by a broad and profound 
philosophical expression through her writing. 

There was a trade off in the quality of shifting aspects for her in Paris, 
however. Her natal Sun-Saturn sextile becomes a more difficult square with 
91 degrees of angular separation between those planets. Though appreciated 
around the western world, in Paris her work was impeded by both traditional 
males and females, who felt threatened by it. This forced Simone to approach 
her work with a greater discipline and strategic sensitivity than she would have 
wished for, and it made it helpful for her to 'take breathers’ away from the 
pressure cooker of Paris, either to the south of France with Sartre or to New 
York and Chicago for her liaisons with the American writer Nelson Algren. 


SOUTH HORIZON Local Space Chart 
Simone de Beauvoir 
Jan 09 1908 
Paris, France 
04:00:AM 
002E20'00" 
48N52'00" 


LOCAL SPACE 


Martin moves to Scotland; an example of shifting aspect patterns at 
work; 
Figure 33 is my natal (ecliptic) chart again. Note that by most standards my 
Saturn at 3 Aries and my Venus at 9 Leo are in a harmonious trine, 126 de- 
grees apart, within an orb of 6 degrees. Both planets are also in trine by sign 
and house position. A review of my corresponding Local Space chart for my 
nativity location of St Louis reflects another story, however. Here, in Figure 
34, it can be seen that the angular separation between these two planets is 
reduced to 88 degrees, only 2 degrees from an exact square! Not only that, 
but my weak natal Moon - Saturn opposition (14 degrees off from an exact 
180-degree separation) becomes strong (too strong!) in LS, moving to become 
an almost perfect opposition - within a 2-degree orb. The square and strong 
opposition aspects indicate more tension and diminished parental attention 
in St Louis for me than a natal trine and loose opposition (from my birth chart) 
might lead us to expect. And it reflects the ‘what is' or 'what was' for me there. 
Tensions between my parents absorbed most of their emotional energy, leav- 
ing less to concentrate on their children. This tension between them wasn't 
resolved until they separated, my mother, my sister and | moving away from 
St Louis to New York city, my father content to remain behind without us”. 
The Saturnian Local Space square (with Venus) and tight opposition (with 
the Moon) remained in effect on the east coast of the USA for me as | grew 


ee Martin Davis 
Pe 2a 30 ~ Sep 07, 1937 
e-6 2 gis Saint Louis, Mo 
rn ae \ 09° age 32" 10:58:00 AM CST 
wt, | 8&6 Je ip 090W12'00" 
2 tp ; 38N37'00" 


Local Space Chart 
Martin Davis 
Sept 07 1937 
Saint Louis Mo. 
10:58:00 AM CST 
090W12'00" 

38N37'00" 


SOUTH HORIZON 


WEST 


Local Space Chart 
Martin Davis 
Duns, Scotland 
04:57:59 PM GMT 
002W20'00" 

55N47'00" 


Figure 35 58 


LOCAL SPACE 


up and, continually finding myself lonely — even amongst many friends — I 
finally 'escaped’ from it by moving to locations in Great Britain and continental 
Europe. Here in Scodand for example, my Local Space Venus/Saturn aspect 
realigns itself from a square to become a trine again with a 126-degree angu- 
lar separation; just like it is in my natal ecliptic chart and the tight LS Moon - 
Saturn opposition eases considerably, opening to 206 degrees of separation 
or 26 degrees out of orb. I regained my birthright (as indicated by my natal 
chart) to experience Saturn's energies harmoniously, and / did it by changing my 
earth location! See Figure 35, my LS chart for Duns, Scotland. Note the separa- 
tion of Venus and Saturn has returned to a trine as it is in my natal chart and 
that there isn't any apparent Moon - Saturn opposition anymore. In my mind 
this goes a way to explaining why I finally found satisfaction in business and 
personal relationships in Europe and the UK, away from the USA. 


Planetary altitudes of LS charts 

Michael Erlewine found that when people relocate, planets moving to the 
horizon (0 degrees of altitude) brought the issues represented by those plan- 
ets into a ‘focus’. They remain on the individual's mind and might even rep- 
resent the background situation or issues there. Those planets aligned near the 
horizon of a LS chart will also be on or near the ascendant - descendant axis 
of the corresponding ecliptic chart. When this is so, it empowers them in both 
the LS and ecliptic systems. No wonder they represent issues that fill our con- 
sciousness at that locality! 

Sean Lovatt points out that Local Space planets in parallel (the same 
degree of altitude) or contraparallel (the same degree of altitude but with one 
above the horizon or '+' and the other below the horizon or '-') are also re- 
lated as aspects even if they are in different directions. This is exacdy the way 
we would consider them in working with declinations in ecliptic charts ”. 


Pl| Azimuth | Alt. Figure 36 includes a list of the altitudes of my 
ls) |225° 22° (414° 17° || relocated LS chart for Duns, Scodand (Figure 35). 
© {191° 04 |414° 42° Note, for example, that both the Sun and Moon 
y |204° 44° |4+12° 30° |] have altitudes of + 14 degrees above the horizon. 
fe 156° 05' |+05° 33° Though they are not in conjunction by azimuth 
@ |284° 12° |4+07° 53° |} (being about 34 degrees apart), they are in con- 
4% }315° 26° {+00° 34° || junction or relationship by altitude. This is a good 
h [029° 45' |- 19° 58° indication for me of a location where I would be 
'@ [072° 33° |- 17° 15° || able to act with a natural inner harmony, both my 
yY 
y 
& 
@ 
& 


{194° 52° |4+16° 27° || will (Sun) and emotions (Moon) in accord with 
!446° 06° |+05° 21° |] each other. A contraparallel of those same two 
279° 16" |+ 11° 49" || planets would indicate that those factors would be 
350° 10° |- 09° 50° |! at odds with each other and require my conscious 
121° 04" |- 11° 41 || efforts to bring them into a balanced polarity. 


Figure 36 59 


LOCAL SPACE 


Technical points: Two special considerations in Local Space studies 


1. Estimating Local Space angularity from the ecliptic chart 

When reading a natal or event chart, we can see approximately what some of 
the angular LS planets might be without even calculating them. How is this 
possible? 

When calculating the ecliptic chart, include the vertex as one of the points 
to be displayed’. Note if any planets are close to (in conjunction with) either 
the vertex or its opposite point, the anti-vertex. Planets close to the vertex will 
be seen to be in the west of the corresponding LS chart. Planets near the anti- 
vertex will fall onto the east in LS. Such planets may not appear to be of major 
influence in the ecliptic chart at first glance, but they can now be seen to be 
very important for the 'what is’ of that location”. 


West power 

Let's take Simone de Beauvoir's natal chart as an example. Please refer again 
to Figure 26. Note that both Neptune and the North Node are close to the 
vertex. This tells us immediately that she will have those power or manifesta- 
tion potentials available at that location for her. This is confirmed in her LS 
chart as discussed previously. Our suspicions can also alert us that Pluto might 
be close to the west, though we can't be sure. On the ecliptic it is 15 degrees 
from the vertex, while on the actual Local Space chart it turns out to align more 
closely - within 7 degrees of azimuth — to the west direction, giving it west 
power too”. 


East power 

Now let's see how we could have picked her east power points from her natal 
chart without even having calculated the corresponding Local Space wheel. 
Noting that her natal vertex is at 8 degrees, 35 minutes of Cancer, the corre- 
sponding point in the east ( the anti-vertex) would be the opposite, 8 degrees, 
35 minutes in Capricorn. Her chart shows that her 2"4 house planets, Uranus 
and Mercury, are near the anti-vertex point with a possibility of the Sun too, 
if we use a wide 10-degree orb - as I usually do. A review of her Local Space 
chart, Figure 27, shows our ‘guess’ would have been a good one, with both 
Uranus and Mercury moving to the east and the Sun as well coming into an 
orb of ‘east power’, 8 degrees of azimuth from the east direction . 

With this all in mind, perhaps we can begin to see a rationale for how 
the vertex-anti vertex axis is assessed in the growth-orientated ecliptic charts 
of astrology today. For the vertex, both Edward Johndro and Charles Jayne 
concluded that the points had to do with fateful and important encounters, 
either with people or circumstances. The vertex points to them seemed to be 
active in life's more dramatic and less ordinary moments. Could this be the 
same or similar to the ‘empowerment’ or ‘substantiation’ effects we read into 
our LS charts for east and west angularity at the same location? I think so. 


60 


LOCAL SPACE 


North-South 

The Local Space north-south alignments of planets are easier still to discern 
from the ecliptic chart. Generally stated: for northern hemisphere charts, plan- 
ets on or near the chart's MC usually will be on the Local Space south direc- 
tion and planets on the IC usually will be in the north. This is reversed for the 
southern hemisphere. Why the modifier ‘usually’? The above rule is correct 
much of the time. However, as described in Footnote 10, the north-versus-south 
orientation of the MCTC axis depends on both the observer's terrestrial lati- 
tude and the planet's declination If in doubt, then we must actually create a 
Local Space chart or a Local Space chart map from our computer program 
and see how it works out. The computer-generated chart or chart map should 
show the true orientations. 


2. Local Space near or approaching equatorial latitudes 

Local Space charts and maps give us less information if the ‘anchor point’ is 
near to the equator, the location's terrestrial latitude getting close to the dec- 
linations of the planets. What then happens is that from the horizon perspec- 
tive, most planets appear to move into two ‘clumps’, one in the east and one 
in the west, each in tight bunches 7”. On Local Space maps calculated for an 
equatorial or near-equatorial location, the pattern of planetary lines begins to 
look like a braid of hair lying east-west, not therefore showing us much about 
other earth locations 78, 

Michael Erlewine discovered that when Local Space charts or maps 
became too bunched due to being calculated on or near equatorial latitudes, 
he could use another perspective that Charles Jayne had studied and recom- 
mended: that of the prime vertical The prime vertical perspective is a view of 
planetary patterns from an east-west orientation rather than from the horizon. 
Michael found that it yielded information about what seemed like the more 
fated or passive characteristics of our lives - rather than the outreach type 
information we gain from Local Space. Prime vertical charts can be obtained 
from full-featured computer programs, but prime vertical maps can be found 
today in very few astrolocality-mapping programs ™. 


NOTES 


1. Astrologer David Perkins points out that one of the first modern systems for 
locational investigation was developed by Fredrich Steggruen (1877-1951), who with 
Alfred Witte founded the famous Hamburg School of Astrology at the turn of the 20th 
century. Sieggruen introduced the Zenith Horoscope, in which planets were projected 
at angular distances along the horizon. 


2. The true or rational horizon is called the 'great circle’ It is parallel to the small cir- 
cle but is expanded beyond the visible to divide the entire earth into an above and 


61 


LOCAL SPACE 


below, with the observer located under the zenith. It too can play a role in an Astrolo- 
cality analysis of maps but perhaps it should then be called 'Global Space’. 


3. The Astrology of Local Space, first published by Charles A. Jayne, Cosmecology 
Bulletin, number 6, 1977, and Local Space , Circle Books Astrological Calendar, 1978 
edition. These 2 essays should be read by all serious students of Local Space. 


4. From his essay, The Astrology of Local Space. 
5. See his important book, Planets in Locality, AFA Publications, 1997, 
6. See Michael's essays in Appendix 4. 


7. The concept of a relocated chart was discussed in chapter 1. It is created by alter- 
ing the natal co-ordinates of longitude and latitude to those of the new location. Date 
and (universal) time remain, just the locational information is changed. This gives us 
a picture not only of what the ecliptic birth chart would have been but also what the 
corresponding Local Space chart would be had the native been born at the place of 
relocation. 


8. In normal navigational use, measurement of azimuth usually begins as 0 degrees 
in the north direction. Michael Erlewine took the decision to align the starting point 
with the east direction for use in Local Space. This corresponded with the usual as- 
trological view of the (eastern) ascendant as the starting point of a chart, thus facilitat- 
ing Local Space's integration with astrological practice. 


9, Sean also uses the indicators of Local Space parallels and contraparallels in his 
consulting work. That means that Local Space planets at the same altitude (parallel), 
or opposing ‘+’ or ‘-’ altitudes (countraparallel) have a relationship regardless of their 
azimuth. He has also found that a Local Space planetary alignment becomes 
immeasurable if we are located near a zenith position, below the planet. 


10. Technical point: the above rule is correct much of the time. Technically however, 
the north versus south orientation of the MC-IC axis does depend on both the ob- 
server's terrestrial latitude and the planet's declination. When 1 speak of northern hemi- 
sphere charts ] am assuming the observer's terrestrial latitude is greater than the plan- 
et's declination and vice versa for southern hemisphere locations. This is a reason- 
able assumption, but there can be cases where this may not be so, say for terrestrial 
latitudes below mid Florida for the northern hemisphere and above mid Australia for 
southern hemisphere charts. fin doubt then generate a Local Space chart or a Local 
Space chart map from a computer program and see how it works out. The compu- 
ter-generated chart or chart map will show the true orientations. 


11. The Round Art, by Tad Mann, Paper Tiger, 1979. 


12. The Astrology of Local Space, 1977, Cosmecology Bulletin, and Appendix 4. 


LOCAL SPACE 


13. North and south Local Space angularity however will show a direct correlation 
with the culminating and anti-culminating lines of the ACG map. 


14. In his book, Planets in Locality. 


15. This is equivalent to the Sun on the midheaven in an ecliptic chart and it would 
mean that my Sun on the MC line would run through Philadelphia on my ACG chart. 
MC and IC lines show as south and north on Local Space charts but the east-west axis 
doesn't usually correspond to the ascendant-descendant axis, such that it is often new 
information for us. 


16. The data used here and the crash data below are taken from Nicholas Campion's 
feature article in the Nov/Dec 1997 issue of the British Astrological Journal, tided: 
Diana, Princess of Wales. There is a discussion of the Mars-Pluto configuration in the 
article as well as other important factors. Recommended reading. 


17. If one considers a time of 12:42 am or 17 minutes later, the Mars-west alignment 
becomes exact. This later time could have been a significant moment as events un- 
folded, perhaps the time she was pulled from the wreck, for example, as early reports 
stated it was about 20 minutes after the crash itself. 


18. It is important to point out here that Pluto is not angular at all in the regular ecliptic 
chart for the eclipse moment, sitting in the 5* house over 30 degrees from the chart's 
descendant. That is, this information from the Local Space perspective is also new and 
unique. 


19. Astrology on the Move, by,Sasha Fenton, Zambezi Publishing, UK., 1998. 


20. Even the tide of her work was chosen from her frustration at the way things were 
and it was designed to jolt consciousness. ‘TheSecond Sex, was taken from a deroga- 
tory expression in France at that time which referred to gays as being 'the third sex'. 
She shifted this expression, identifying women in a similar oppressive light, such that 
it would impact upon the ear and therefore the understanding, of French society itself. 


21. Astrologers will note that my Sun-Neptune natal conjunction could auger the loss 
of a father or the father figure in my life. 


22. For a good explanation of this in ecliptic charts, the reader is referred to Robert 
Hand's book, Horoscope Symbols, Para Research, 1981, page 113, Parallels and 
Contraparallels. Another good reference, with examples, is: Parallels, Their Hidden 
Meaning, by Charles Jayne, Astrological Bureau, 1978. 


23. The vertex is the intersection of the east-west meridian (called the Prime Verti- 
cal) with the ecliptic in the west, while the anti-vertex is this same intersection in the 
east. See Horoscope Symbolsby Rob Hand, Para Research, 1981, pages 88-89 for infor- 
mation about these points. 


LOCAL SPACE 


24. Angel Thompson also recommends using the vertex, anti-vertex points, as what 
she calls the "eyeball" method, to turn an ecliptic chart into the west and east of a Local 
Space chart if/when a computer is not available. 


25. See appendix 6 for a discussion of consequences due to Pluto's position so far 
off the ecliptic in our era. 


26. The usefulness of the vertex-anti vertex axis as an informative point on the eclip- 
tic chart also ceases when the terrestrial latitude of a location comes too close to plan- 
etary declination. 


27. Even bunched up Local Space chart configurations can sometimes be useful, how- 
ever. Ifone or more north-south planets stand out from the east -west planetary bunch, 
the standouts appear to be very important in a client's life. I call that type of Local 
Space chart pattern the ‘butterfly effect', as the few north and south lines appear to 
be a head and tail, with the east-west planetary bunching representing the wings. 


28. There 1s a similar type of problem, a breakdown at certain latitudes, on ACG maps 
where at extreme northern and southern latitudes many rising and setting lines cross 
each other. I consider those areas of an ACG map possible 'zones of confusion’ for 
the native, where not too much specific information can be gathered. 


29. I use Matrix Software's DOS program AstroMaps Hi Res to plot prime vertical 
maps. I haven't yet found a Windows mapping program that has this feature, though 
its inclusion is planned for Win*Maps. 


CHAPTER THREE 


LS Maps; Destiny Points 


LOCAL SPACE MAPS 


Local Space Maps can be seen as a necessary and useful extension of Local 
Space charts!. We have seen that LS maps, like ACG maps, are equatorial- 
oriented earth maps with the appropriate lines drawn on them. They are nec- 
essary to show LS directional influences over large distances. It has already 
been explained how LS lines are truly great circles emanating from the na- 
tive's location or ‘anchor point’, with their directional influence in effect around 
the entire globe. When you plot these lines on a geographic map, they become 
curved after about 50 miles due to the perspective and geometry of representing 
them on a flat earth map. 

With Local Space maps, we will now look at the significance of all 
directionality, not just the 4 cardinal angular ones. To begin with, and as a first 
principle, let's keep in mind Michael Erlewine's discovery that he and his 
clients tended to travel or relocate exactly on the LS lines describing 
their planetary directions. This can become important and very powerful 
information for us, either in explaining the directional outreach of our past 
actions or in helping us to plan our future activity. 

We will soon see examples of how each planetary line describes a direc- 
ftona/pathway for us on earth that reflects or radiates the qualities and attributes 
associated with the planet in question. The specific planetary energy becomes 
available as we travel on the line as well as describing the reason we may be 
moving to the new location. We may find also that it sends people and infor- 
mation fo us from along its pathway. I have written a short description of what 
we might expect from each planetary line, as follows? : 

Local Space Planetary Lines 
The Sun - Like the Sun itself, you'll be able to shine forth on this plan- 
etary line. You'll feel energised, confident and courageous as you travel 


65 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


on it. It's an auspicious direction if you are journeying to a place where 
you'll be taking on leadership roles, positions of authority or taking 
creative risks. There is no need to be shy now; your personality can help 
you (but don't forget to listen to others as well). Follow your heart as 
you move in this direction, building a reality which includes growth and 
development for yourself. 


The Moon - If you are looking to nurture someone or to be nurtured 
yourself, there can hardly be a better earth direction for you. A path to 
(or from) female relatives or friends is often found along this line. Is- 
sues requiring your sensitivity and response will pull you onto this path- 
way. On it, your intuition will flow easily and your emotional expres- 
sion can be fulfilling, but be mindful of unconscious or habitual re- 
sponses to things which can hold you in outdated situations. 


Mercury - This earth pathway favours travel itself - especially jour- 
neys for business or to complete tasks. Movement in this direction sup- 
ports projects in communication or those that require a high level of 
mental activity, study and/or writing. You may find yourself being very 
chatty as you travel along this line, while your mind is clear and insight- 
ful. Be careful not to get lost in details, possibly losing sight of the big 
picture. 


Venus - This is a very good pathway on which to find a female love 
interest. You seem to look your best now, reflecting grace and charm. 
It's a fine direction, auguring success, if you are involved in an art 
project. You may also be drawn to it if you are travelling for the issues 
of love, beauty or relationship. You come to see the importance of these 
factors for your self-development. You must show maturity now, since 
compulsive attractions of appearance are possible to and from this earth 
direction. These attractions may not hold real substance or developmen- 
tal potential for yourself. 


Mars -Just do it! This is the direction to support you when initiative 
and action are required (but do make your actions meaningful and not 
merely impulsive). New challenges, even if risky, are highly favoured 
on this pathway. Women may find male partners either on this line it- 
self or in new locations that are approached from its direction. Express 
yourself outwardly and actively so that anger doesn't build within and 
spoil your time. 


Jupiter - This earth direction is about outreach and vision, all supported 
by an optimistic frame of mind on your part. It's a great pathway for 


66 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


travel itself, especially if you are moving towards situations where phi- 
losophy, teaching and general mental expansion are core issues. If you 
are willing to move beyond the safe and known in your life to an un- 
known realm of broader understanding, this is a line that will help you’. 
Do go for self-expansion now but bear in mind the Greek myth of Icarus: 
he flew too high to the Sun, melting his wings with disastrous’ results! 


Saturn - If you are moving on this earth pathway to a new situation 
where patience, diligence, discipline and/or maturity will be needed, 
this is the best direction for you to accomplish your goal. Your rewards 
(in time) will include new-found self-respect and inner development. Be 
patient, not pessimistic. People who dictate to you may appear from this 
direction. Be a real warrior now, consciously choosing when to com- 
ply with their demands or when to stand firm. 


Uranus — Sudden career or relationship changes may find you travel- 
ling along this line. You feel an excitement in the air, and spontaneity 
will be necessary for you to deal with new conditions. If you have in- 
novative projects to tackle, this line will support them. Your oudook on 
life is experimental and open. Surprises will come, so remember, 'sur- 
prises’ mean just that, as a new and strange 'you' may manifest now. Do 
keep in mind that real creative change is more than mere restlessness, 
though restiessness may be one factor included in it 


Neptune — Neptune lines of all types present us with adilemma, ie., is 
this a place/direction of true inspiration, or is it one of illusion and 
perhaps deception®? Whatever the blend of these factors, if you are 
moving on this earth pathway in need of intuition and imagination, you 
will be amply supported. Don't expect a journey on this line to hold to 
logical planning choices; some form of spiritual guidance will be your 
best map. That guidance can come from within yourself as well as from 
others. You'll be successful if your intention includes service to others, 
compassion and/or a selfless type of love. Yes, there can be alluring yet 
cloudy issues facing you now, but you also have a priceless opportunity 
to nurture your soul. 


Pluto — This earth direction will lead you to (or bring to you) intense 
situations which may become transformative to the point of changing 
your life. This is a great line if you are leaving an old situation behind 
or moving to a new one where deep security/power/desire issues within 
you are being exposed and must be dealt with. Events will push them 
upward to the surface mind for you to see. Travel on this line also sup- 
ports worldly projects such as mining (extracting, digging deep and 


67 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


bringing to the surface) or tasks where you will have to deal with power 
over others and/or life and death issues in general. Your deep under- 
standing and intensity can make you powerful on this pathway. If this 
turns to manipulation or ruthlessness on your part, you may find oth- 
ers blocking you, so do play your hand as lightly as possible to gain its 
benefits. 


Let's start with the example of aviator Charles Lindbergh® and see how he was 
drawn towards specific Local Space lines (directions), their energy helping him 
to accomplish his task. 

Charles A. Lindbergh captured the imagination and admiration of the 
Western world when on 20 May 1927 he took off from Roosevelt Field, NY 
and flew non-stop and solo across the Atlantic for 33 hours and 29 minutes, 
reaching his destination of Le Bourget airport, north of Paris, the next day. This 
event was considered a milestone for human courage as well for aviation at 
that time. A comparison in achievement with this era's Moon landing would 
be well founded. Let's not confuse Lindbergh's adventure at all with the ease 
we find today in catching a plane for Paris from our local airport. First of all, 
it was only a few decades after the very first flights, and planes were still un- 
der-powered and dangerous for such an adventure. Eighteen days before his 
flight, for example, Frenchmen Nungesser and Coli had disappeared attempt- 
ing the same trip in the opposite direction, and in the following year, fourteen 
pilots - three of them women - perished trying to duplicate it’, 

There were no maps at all for an Atlantic crossing, so Lindbergh had 


aa he. : . a 4 Tony Te, 
mE TONERS | 3 - 5 
&;, fe ‘e i “ eo = oF 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


sought out fisherman who worked off the Newfoundland coast for weather and 
directional information. Even more astounding was that no one knew the exact 
location of his destination, Le Bourget airport! He was advised to search north 
of Paris and not to worry, as the airport would be well illuminated. In fact it 
wasn't. Airport authorities had turned off most of the lights so that the crowd 
could better catch sight of his approaching aircraft, The Spirit of St. Louis. 

Lindbergh became an instant celebrity, with tumultuous and triumphant 
parades given in his honour in Paris, London and especially in New York, 
where he received a ticker-tape parade and a hero's welcome’®. This event was 
the pinnacle of his public life, however, as his later years were marred by 
personal tragedy and his unpopular political views. 

Figure 37 is Lindbergh's natal Local Space configuration { from Detroit) 
as seen on a world map. It is included here to illustrate how the LS lines seem 
to curve when represented on a map, though they actually cross the earth as 
great circles, returning at last to the starting point. 

Figure 38 is a diagram of the route that Lindbergh took on his historic 
flight. It must be emphasised that his route was unique, as 9I other aviators 
had attempted the crossing before him, most on more northerly or southerly 
paths. Some had actually been successful in the crossing, but none had accom- 
plished it as a solo and non-stop journey’. 

Figure 39 is the Adantic detail of Lindbergh's natal LS map. It is quite 
startling to see what we discover here. His LS Mars line runs across the east- 
ern Atlantic, over southern England and on to Paris, almost perfectly duplicating 
the actual path of his adventurous, bold, pioneering journey! What does this mean? 
From his birth moment, a direction, a path toward Paris would always be as- 
sociated with initiative, assertiveness and courage for him. It is no surprise, 
therefore, that his pioneering journey would be planned just on that path and 
in that direction that would give him the very Martian qualities he would need 
to complete it. It seems to be a general principle that we are drawn towards 
our Local Space lines (directions) to fulfil the needs which require those spe- 
cific energies. This may be what we can call our attunement or resonance with 
a situation’®. 

The plot thickens! Although Lindbergh's natal LS map remains our 
primary source of information, let's also look for additional indicators from a 
relocated map. Relocating his LS information to the actual starting point of 
his specific journey - the airfield at Roosevelt Field, Nassau (NY) — we add 
the 'what is’ for him from that specific location. Figure 40 is an Atlantic map 
of his planetary directional lines originating from that airfield. It is noteworthy 
to see that his Mars line has moved south and his Mercury and Venus lines (in 
LS conjunction) now become the ones that replace it, duplicating his flight path 
across the Atlantic and on to Paris, France. 

What might this mean? Although the flight path for the pioneering flight 
itself is perfectly described by bold Mars (from his natal data), the location for 


69 


OL 


ge oust] 


ifcflLane 


SINIOd ANILLSHC AGNV SdVW LYVHD dOVdS TVDOT 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


a byeng 
how {ey “ear c . 
Ok ees 


4 
Va 4 
[eS 
a“ f { 


Figure 39 


Figure 40 


71 


SOUTH HORIZON 


Local Space Chart 
C. Lindbergh 
Feb 4 1902 
Detroit, MI 
02:34:00 AM 
083W03'00" 
42N20'00" 


Local Space Chart 

C. Lindbergh Relocated 
Feb 4 1902 
Roosevelt Field NY 
08:30:00 AM 
40N44'00" 
073W39'00" 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


takeoff (relocated data) augured the journey's success, emphasising Lindbergh's 
professional skill and ‘business travel’ (Mercury) as well as his talents (Venus). 
And there is even more information to be had from those conjoined lines: 
Lindbergh's journey was in response to a $25,000 prize offered in 1926 by New 
York hotel owner Raymond Orteig for the first person to fly an aircraft directly 
across the Atlantic between New York and Paris. Lindbergh responded to this 
offer and within a year had made the journey and collected the prize. He was 
in fact journeying (Mercury) to gain his ‘pot of gold’ (Venus)! 

Figures 4] and 42 are Lindbergh's LS charts for Detroit and Roosevelt 
Field, respectively. Note that for Detroit (in LS) he has Saturn almost perfectly 
in the east. Saturn power there indicates the ability to work hard and give form, 
shape and a concrete actualisation to his plans. This would be a perfect com- 
bination for the planning and implementation of his journey. The journey’s 
starting location of Roosevelt Field, however, moves Saturn off of the LS east 
‘angle’ and replaces it with Jupiter''. See Figure 42. He now has Jupiter power 
for his actual flight, or stated another way: plain good luck! Lindbergh him- 
self recounted that he did doze off during the flight, but as the plane lost alti- 
tude, heading toward a crash into the sea, he had the good fortune to be awak- 
ened by the reflection of sunlight off of his instrument panel. 


DESTINY POINTS; COMBINING ACG 
AND LS INFORMATION 


In my work with both ACG and Local Space techniques I began to experi- 
ment using the information together as one system. Almost immediately I saw 
a valuable synergy could be obtained from the LS lines of direction with the 
intersections of the ACG lines of location. Location and direction: LS tells us the 
nature and meaning of the directional paths that we take, and ACG tells us 
what we could expect when we got there. I named these special crossings bi- 
parans, borrowing on the paran terminology of ACG and adding the ‘bi’ to 
identify that the data were coming from two systems. Later I came to use the 
term ‘destiny point! to reflect how these crossings affected clients! lives’*. 
Let's now go back to the Lindbergh saga and look for destiny points. 
Figure 43 is the European detail of his ACG map. This will help us to see how 
Paris played the important role of the destination of his historic flight. Paris 
can be seen as west of his Moon MC line. This certainly implies a possibility 
for him to become a focus of public attention there. This lunar quality may 
also explain the emotional but ultimately ephemeral nature of the adoration 
that he received. The ACG map shows us a lunar meridian which is, in effect, 
a line of possible locations where this type of public, emotional, lunar energy 
might manifest. But why Paris and not elsewhere - further north or south - on 
this Moon MC meridian? For an answer to this question let us look at Figure 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


44, where both his ACG and LS lines are shown together. The LS direction of 
Mars and ACG location of Moon MC energy merge close to Paris. This, there- 
fore, is his Mars-Moon MC bi-paran or destiny point. His pioneering , Mars direc- 
tional line brought him lunar fame near the latitude and longitude of their cross- 
ing. In short we have a formula here: 


The intersection of direction (LS) + location (ACG) = destiny point 


Lindbergh did indeed land on the partially darkened airport at Le Bourget, 
and was immediately and energetically hailed by the crowd that assembled 
there. He was carried off on their shoulders as befitting his hero's status. Our 
pathways are active in both directions, so Lindbergh was raring to continue. 
He wanted to finish off his epic feat by flying the plane back to Roosevelt field, 
thereby accomplishing a world first round trip journey. He was refused per- 
mission to do this by the US president, Coolidge (In those days people heeded 
a president's wishes). Instead, the plane was flown to Portsmouth where it was 
disassembled and with Lindbergh accompanying it, both steamed back to the USA. 


75 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


Using Local Space maps for natal, relocated and event moments 
The underlying approach in working with the Local Space technique is to employ natal 
information first and then make use of relocated charts and maps for new locations®. 
As we have seen, for LS charts, relocating to new locations is very helpful, 
allowing us to ascertain what planets are brought to the angles of cardinal 
direction there (and the new horizon) or moved away from them. It may also 
tell us if any aspects have changed. For LS maps, relocating them will often give 
us important background information, especially of the intermediate journeys 
we must take in accomplishing our life tasks. 

Experience has shown me that when you are looking for destiny points, 
it is most valuable to look first at the original natal lines to see where they fall 
across the earth. Often it is the natal LS lines, when combined with the ACG 
data, that give us the significant earth destiny points, regardless of the subject's 
current location'*. Perhaps this means that from birth we have fated locations 
which will draw us to them regardless of where we may be residing at any time. 
In the Lindbergh example above, his natal LS Mars line from Detroit and his 
relocated Venus and Mercury lines from Roosevelt Field all impact with his 
Moon MC line in destiny points for him. But it is his natal Mars line, combin- 
ing with the Moon meridian near Paris, that tells us the most about his remark- 
able pioneering achievement. 

In the next example I will show how my natal astrolocality lines give me 
important destiny information. Following that we will see examples of Local 
Space lines on relocated maps and event moment maps as well. 


1. Natal Lines: My date with destiny - the Munich Olympics, 1972 
Here's an example of how natal directional lines from my birth location of St 
Louis, Missouri, helped to cast the light of meaning upon a period of big change 
in my life. Two events stand out: 

In late August of 1972 I participated in the Munich Olympics as a mem- 
ber of the USA foil fencing team and only a few weeks later moved to Ger- 
many to live and work there for four years; an important period where my idea 
of ‘home’ was broadened beyond the boundaries of the USA. 

Major transits and progressions were in effect for me, as might be ex- 
pected. With transiting Pluto conjoining my natal Moon, many old patterns 
and situations were collapsing with new and unexpected ones arising from the 
ashes. In my Progressed Lunation cycle the Moon was making a waxing square 
to the Sun. Dane Rudhyar called this the ‘crisis in action’ life phase’. 

Let's look at the astrolocality map for this. Figure 45 is the European detail 
of my map. On it we can see my natal LSVenus line (from St Louis) intersect- 
ing two ACG (location) lines, Mars MC and my North Node MC" as well. 
Both of these destiny points occur in Germany and both direcdy correlated 
with what I consider major life events. 


76 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


Taking the Mars MC-Venus bi-paran first, note that it is close to Munich, where 
the Olympic games were held. Destiny point it was, as many millions around 
the world saw me marching into the Olympic stadium on TV, although of 
course I was a faceless part of a large group and a very minor figure in the 
spectacle. No matter, as my Mars (combat sport) was being brought to public 
attention (MC meridian) in a pleasant scenario of enthusiasm and adulation 
by the spectators (Venus). 

More on Mars: in spite of my ripe old age for an Olympian - at 35 the 
oldest man on the entire USA squad - I had never felt better or stronger in 
my life. Near my Mars line in Munich and with my natal Mars in Sagittarius, 
my legs were moving as if I were 10 years younger. And you may recall there 
was a terrorist attack during those games, with Israeli athletes, officials and Ger- 
man police officers killed. These tragic events happened nearby, perhaps ex- 
pressing the dangerous side of Mars MC for me at that location. Might there 
have been a ‘resonance’ between that location and my surge of energy and 
good form relatively late in my sporting career? Did I make the Munich team 
(as I perceived it) or did my Munich destiny lines draw me to Munich for that 
Olympiad? 

More on Venus: because of my age, I looked forward to the trip as an 
interesting and growth-orientated experience rather than with the nervousness 
and concern of a younger man, Perhaps it was the Venus energy that protected 
me from the martian danger of terrorism there, and Venus energy most likely 
explains the happy time I had after the events, going to concerts, visiting 


museums and travelling in the beautiful countryside. 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


Let's now consider the LS with North Node MC - Venus destiny point: some 
weeks after returning to the USA from the Munich Olympics, I left the States 
again to take up a 4-year civilian employment contract with NATO in 
Kaiserslautern, Germany. I worked there as a quality-control engineer. What 
a delightful task for a Virgo: weeding out those imperfections! This destiny 
point falls less than 30 miles from Kaiserslautern. The Venus direction didn't 
let me down either. Almost immediately, a beautiful and secluded house in a 
nearby woods fell available (note that Venus rules the 12% house of secluded 
environments in my natal chart-as well as my 7* house). The house, with the 
surrounding natural beauty, was so perfect that it brought tears to my eyes when 
I first knew it would be mine. The North Node component of this destiny point 
was another, more difficult issue. New cultural experiences and issues came 
at me thick and fast. This had to be processed, along with the residual feeling 
of loss I felt for everything and everyone I had given up in the USA to get 
there (transiting Pluto on my natal Moon). My stay at this destiny location was 
associated with the most beautiful home environment I had ever known, as 
well another big change: becoming much more self-reliant in general (North 
Node in my natal first house). 


2. Relocated Local Space lines show the way 

Three examples follow: (a) on to Turkey, (b) I escape from my engineering 
career, and (c) a trip to India. Although my natal Local Space lines give me 
the most information when used for destiny points, it is important to note that 
my relocated LS maps from Germany (and later from Yorkshire, England) were 
important in describing significant life journeys to come. In general, relocated 
lines are useful for our investigations if the location has truly become our home 
for some time or if it is a an initiating location for a significant life event. I can't 
give any hard and fast rules on when to use relocated LS lines (or not), other 
than to note that after an analysis of natal lines, one's relocated lines should 
be considered for additional information. 

Perhaps because I lived in the German village of Otterberg (near 
Kaiserslautern) as my true and only home for 4 years and because it was a 
destiny location itself, my relocated charts from that location were filled with 
important information. The lines of my relocated LS map from Germany 
projected outwards to locations that I would ultimately visit and even move 
to at later dates. 


(a) On to Turkey. In 1976 my four-year contract expired and my job in 
Germany was finished. I was, however, able to extend my travels by taking a 
brief engineering assignment in Ankara, Turkey as a so-called “foreign national 
employee". How on earth did I ever even hear of an opening in Turkey, much 
less be selected for it? In retrospect, perhaps my relocated Local Space chart 
for Ankara gives us a hint Figure 46 is my LS chart for that location. On it we 


78 


SOUTH HORIZON Local Space Chart 


Oe ae ea ee M. Davis Relocated 
sss Sept 7 1937 

ye ee 7 RK Ankara, Turkey 
Ly a 04:57:59 PM GMT 

x Y ae ; 250" ays ZONE: + 00.00 
/330 r a M44 32E52’00" 


\ 39N56'00" 


« 93° 
as Ys, 8 14 20° 129) 

aN ol eg 
YOM 086" gs 

\ re ig & ee 

S60 Ey 7 sr 120” 
hs fon We ee 
NORTH 
Figure 46 


can see that my Saturn is brought almost exacdy to the east direction there - 
within less than a degree of perfect alignment - and my Mercury is brought 
to the west (within less than a 3-degree orb). Surprisingly for me, it turned out 
to be an earth empowerment location, where things come to manifestation. I 
had Saturn and Mercury power in Ankara, Turkey, pulling me there! (See 
Appendix 2 for descriptions of Saturn in the east and Mercury in the west.) 

In Figure 47 we see my relocated Local Space lines from Germany. There 

are no direct lines to my next job in Ankara. Note that we can't always expect to 

find lines directly to everywhere we have been or may want to visit. Ankara was an 
important stepping stone for me, with empowerment energy, but it was just 
one of the many places I have been, and a short-lived location of less than a 
year. What was memorable was the journey I made to get there and, that said, 
the LS directional lines from Germany do confirm this. 

I travelled from Germany to Ankara by car and had arranged to have 
some weeks free to do it. My Local Space lines from Germany provide us with 
an example of how we can jump to different planetary directional lines (like 
moving to different spokes of a wheel) as we travel, and therefore modify the 
quality of our experience: 

Mars and Node Lines: (See Figure 47, Line 'A’). Driving south from 
Kaiserslautern, I set off first towards Switzerland, which turned out to be on 
my Mars and Node lines. Although this was a life-changing trip, my energies 
and confidence seemed very high and untroubled by the uncertainties I was 


79 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 
v oR - - 


‘ A 


/ 
i : 
/ ‘ oo. Figure 47 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


facing. My intention was to stop first for three days in Saanen (south of Bern) 
at a conference hosted by the philosopher J. Krishnamurti. The trip there was 
exhilarating. Near midnight, crossing the Swiss Alps, I experienced a full Moon 
that I can still recall. Travel, courage and good energy are positive manifesta- 
tions of these lines. 

Jupiter Line: (See Figure 47, line 'B’.) During the gathering, I enjoyed the 
conference itself with little contemplation of the deeper issues raised. When 
the conference ended I travelled southwest through Italy to Venice, and it was 
on this journey that the full impact of the teaching became clear. I felt elated 
at being able to spread my wings - so to speak - to travel and encounter a 
teacher and his teaching in such beautiful circumstances. I was now exacdy 
on my Jupiter line (from Germany) as I approached Venice. Characteristically 
for a Jupiter direction, my attention had shifted to philosophy and I felt more 
optimistic about my life potential and future possibilities. 

Pluto Line: (See Figure 47, line 'C’.) Driving east from Venice along the 
northern coast of the Adriatic Sea, I then turned south, crossing the border into 
Yugoslavia at Trieste. Unbeknown to me, 1 had now aligned with my Pluto 
LS line from Germany. My mood became more sombre. Now the reality hit 
home that I was leaving my old life behind forever (with the beautiful house 
in the woods) and going off alone into a new and unknown situation. It was 
an uncomfortable feeling, my psychological ‘security props' of home, job and 
friends being kicked out from me once again. Bob Dylan's words drifted across 
my mind, “How does it feel.... like a rolling stone.... destination unknown.... 
How does it feel?" 

The most noteworthy part of my trip was down the entire coast road of 
the former Yugoslavia, untroubled by the ethnic warfare which was to follow 
years later. It was a beautiful and even memorable journey, one I still recall. 
But the knowledge that nothing now remained of my past life in Germany 
brought a fear-tinged intensity to it 

With hindsight, another starting indicator emerges. The same LS Pluto 
line that led me down the coast road of the former Yugoslavia runs westward 
from Germany to Yorkshire (Bedale) in England. Then, in 1976, I] wasn't to 
know that the same Yorkishire location would become my home one day in 
the 1980's. This relocated Pluto line, in its entirety (both directions), was pro- 
viding me with information relevant to a new day that would dawn later in 
my life - rising from the ashes of the fields I had metaphorically burnt and was 
then leaving behind. 

Venus line: (See Figure 47, line 'D'.) But now back to my journey to 
Ankara: as I drove around Albania and into Greece (and off my Pluto line), 
the intensity of my reverie suddenly seemed unnecessary. It was replaced by 
the happiness and appreciation for life that Greece can bring. Actually, I was 
now approaching my Venus line (from Germany) which lies just east of 
Thessalonika. Overcome with venusian feelings of beauty - and forgetting all 


81 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


my former plutonian misgivings, I interrupted my journey to experience 
Greece - and life. Parking the car at the airport, I took the next plane to a Greek 
island, where I drank wine, sat in the sun, and enjoyed the Aegean sea for a 
week. The intense, concerned 'me’ had become a happy and thankful Zorba. 
Hooray for Venus! Flying back to the Greek mainland I picked up the car and 
completed my journey, finally arriving in Ankara ready to begin my new job, 
my new life. 


There are some other considerations here worthy of mention: in using Local 
Space charts and maps, it must be kept in mind that the directions and direc- 
tional lines don't work in isolation from the other astrological indicators, such 
as the transits, progressions and directions. At this time of travel I was approach- 
ing my so-called ‘mid-life crisis’, with change an absolute imperative for me. 
With my natal Uranus in my 6" house of workplace (being opposed by tran- 
siting Uranus in my 12" house), it's clear to see that my particular changes were 
associated with different jobs and changing work sites - which are typical 6%- 
house indicators. 

Also, one can note the emphasis of Venus, Jupiter and Pluto lines in the 
travels I am describing. A review of my natal chart will show that Venus and 
Pluto are in my 9" house of long-distance foreign travel and ‘outreach’, along 
with my natal Jupiter on my travel-oriented 3" house cusp (in most house sys- 
tems), all excellent candidates to explain this period of my life 

Another point to note is about aspects to a line we might be travelling 
on. The energy of any of our planetary lines is always affected in quality by 
the natal aspects we have to it. My natal Venus is squared by Uranus, for ex- 
ample, so that when encountering my Venus line in Greece, I would tend to 
manifest it with unusual, creative (or perhaps eccentric) Uranus-type actions 
(interrupting the journey and flying off to an island). For me, Venus lines will 
always carry a challenge from Uranus and Uranus lines, a challenge from 
Venus. 

In the Lindbergh example, he has no 9“house planets. However, those 
planets emphasised by the Local Space maps for his journey - Mars, Mercury 
and Venus - are all in his other house of travel, his 3%. And his Mars, which 
is the major indicator of his pioneering journey, is in the path-making sign of 
Aquarius, a symbol and indication itself of unique, individual and forward- 
looking efforts. 


(b). Escape from my engineering career. By 1977, living in Ankara, 
I had had enough of office work, so I resigned from my position as a quality- 
control engineer, scraping together enough money to keep me in a simple life- 
style for a few years more. After some I7 years in offices I was free. What to 
do next? I didn't know. (Note: in retrospect, how could I have known what to 
do? In addition to having transiting Uranus opposing its natal position at that 


82 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


time (need to be free), I also had transiting Pluto conjunct my natal Moon and 
transiting Neptune on my natal Mars. In other words, all the outer planets were 
making major, once-in-a-lifetime hits. The cosmos was making - and working 
- me over. 

I decided to travel to Crete, sit in the sunshine and ponder what to do 
next. Figure 48 is my relocated Local Space map from Ankara. Note that from 
that location, and at the time of my Uranus opposition, I was exactly (and 
unconsciously) following my Uranus line as I took my first steps toward what 
I saw as freedom from my former career. Again I repeat an important princi- 
ple here: 


We are drawn towards our Local Space lines (directions) 
to fulfil the needs which require those specific energies. 


(c). A trip to India. After Crete I had about 4 years more of adven- 
ture, living in European cities as well as some more offbeat Eastern locations. 
By 1982, I was living in Yorkshire most of the time. From this location I] was 
able to arrange an eight month trip for myself to the Himalayan mountains of 
India and Nepal. This journey, really a pilgrimage, turned out to be the last 
and most significant expedition of my travelling, mid-life years. As it was a 
profound time for me, I would expect to find indications of it in my astrolocality 
astrology... and I do! 

In my natal Local Space world map, there are no lines even near India 
from my birth location. It's as ifI was never destined to visit India while I lived 
in the USA. But this destiny changes completely when I now move to York- 
shire, England, where the possibility becomes manifest. Figure 49 is my LS 
world map from my relocated position in Yorkshire. Note that two lines do now 
run over to northern India from my relocated home. Figure 50 is the Indian 
detail of the this world map. On it we can see that my Sun line direction 
(growth, creative expression) crosses northern India, almost exacdy leading 
me to my arrival city there of New Delhi. My Neptune line (spiritual insights, 
as well as danger from polluted drinking water!) crosses the high Indian-Ti- 
betan border region and on into Nepal, all areas of my most difficult - and 
rewarding — trekking. I had travelled on a journey (from England to India) 
where I had sought growth-orientated experiences (Sun line) as well as spir- 
itual inputs (Neptune line). This trip worked best for me when originating from 
England, as I was (unconsciously) able to call on my Sun and Neptune ener- 
gies to guide me from there, the perfect directional lines for me to complete 
my task successfully. 

The Local Space chart for my relocated destination of New Delhi is 
unusual, It is shown in Figure 51. I have no planetary energy brought to the 
cardinal directions on this chart, but we can see that a less material symbol, 
my Part of Fortune, is brought exactly to the east at that location. My PF has 


84 


Zoo 
a) 
. a ¢ 
ery co a 
in tk wt 
& x ¢ 
5 “OE 
on ro 
Pane ; as 
- \ he 
ra Sa, Kailas 


Local Space Chart 
M.Davis Relocated 
Sept 7 1937 

New Delhi, India 
04:57:59 PM GMT 
077E12’00" 
28N36'00" 


Figure 51 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


‘east power’ in New Delhi and northern India in general. Perhaps this is a sign 
of empowerment there for existential good luck; a place where the fortunes of 
destiny must smile on me, though not necessarily in a material way”. 


3. Using Local Space lines for event charts: Amelia Earhart, America's 
Sweetheart of the Air 

One of the most famous and inspirational women in the early part of the 20 
century was aviatrix Amelia Earhart. She stepped onto the world stage - and 
into people's hearts - in 1928, after becoming the first women to fly across 
the Atlantic. Flying made her famous, disappearing made her legendary”. 

Earhart disappeared as she was nearing the final legs of a record-break- 
ing 29,000-mile journey, circumnavigating the globe near the equator. On the 
morning of 2 July 1937, at 10.00 AM local time, Earhart and her navigator Fred 
Noonan took off from Lae on the island of New Guinea, bound for a refuel- 
ling stop at Howland Island. At 2,556 miles away this was the longest leg of 
her journey. Howland Island itself is very tiny and flat and would be impossi- 
ble to see until one was almost over it Her dream never happened, however, 
as she and Noonan vanished in the Pacific without a trace. 

Though various speculations abound about her disappearance,'® histori- 
ans still believe that she was lost because the US naval map she and Noonan 
were using was faulty, erroneously indicating a location miles away from the 
island's true position”’. Researchers Elgen and Marie Long, who spent 25 years 
investigating Amelia's disappearance, wrote, "Her last words indicate that she 
was doing exacdy what a lost pilot should have been doing: flying a search 
pattern, looking for the island.” Noonan is thought to have brought them to 
where the island should have been according to the erroneous map, and there 
they began their search pattern. Final radio transmissions from Earhart indi- 
cate that she was running out of fuel and couldn't find the island. It is believed 
she ditched the aircraft somewhere northwest of Howland. 

Astrologers will note that if we take the themes of ‘lost’ and ‘lost at sea’ 
and ‘erroneous or deceptive information’ and couple them with the fact that 
Noonan (possibly the most well-thought-of navigator of his era) had known 
alcoholic problems, we can begin to see Neptune as a planetary theme here. 
Perhaps her running out of fuel also alerts us to look for Saturn contacts, as 
this planet is associated with scarcity and lack of things. Let's have a look: 

Figure 52 is a detail from Amelia Earhart’'s (natal) ACG map. On it we 
can see that her Neptune descending line runs right through Papua New 
Guinea, not too far from the embarkation point of her last flight. Taken nega- 
tively, this could mean‘the possibility here of poor communication as well as 
misrepresentations from others, as things wouldn't be as they seem. 

Figure 53 is the combined transiting LS and ACG map for Lae at their 
moment of departure. True, this is a map for everyone there at that time, but 
only she and Noonan were departing then on a historic event, making it a valid 


87 


Figure 52 

event, chart-of-the-momenttor them. ‘l’he first thing to note is that the Nep- 
tune line runs approximately in the direction of Howland Island. That itself, 
negatively taken, is a potential danger. This is compounded by the fact that 
the Saturn descending line (ACG) runs near to Howland, such that her target 
landing site is uncomfortably close to a Saturn-Neptune destiny point This can 
be seen to be ominous, as Saturn and Neptune are not a happy combination, 
often associated with ‘undermining circumstances’. 

There is more. Figure 54 is the Local Space chart for their departure 
moment. On it we can see that the unwanted Saturn-Neptune combination is 
close to the east-west empowerment points, where those planetary energies 
might most likely manifest. Neptune is 5 degrees from due east Gin orb) and 
Saturn is only about 3 degrees from the exact west direction. A possible dan- 
gerous combination in this case, 'empowered' or made more hazardous. 

We might have hoped that the 'empowered' Part of Fortune, almost per- 
fectly to the north direction of this chart, would have brought a more fortu- 
nate result. If we look at Rudhyar's Sabian symbol for this degree, however 
(10 degrees Gemini, from the ecliptic chart of the departure moment), we see 
that more transcendent forces may have been in effect. It reads, "An airplane 
performing a nose dive"; with the keynote, "A superior ability to challenge 
nature and play with danger." Rudhyar then goes on to comment, "By chal- 


68 
eg amsty 


; ae SOLOMON 
a N 
D> et 
7 


Howland Island 


—g—__—es 


i 
Fit 
Ist anys 


TONGA 
ISLANDS 


ao} 


Peete PRESUME ERED IODC hs tat OR ae i ee 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


lenging it (nature) man prepares himself to pierce beyond the physical and to 
reach higher realms of existence. He may lose the struggle, but that prospect 
makes the effort more exciting. He may gain immortality." 

With an exact Mars-Jupiter conjunction in the 5* house of her natal chart, 
Earhart was a spirited and creative law unto herself and perhaps the perfect 
candidate to “challenge nature and play with danger". She understood the 
difficulties she faced in pushing the aircraft and navigational capabilities of her 
day to their very edge. "When I go", she had told her husband, “I'd like to go 
in my plane. Quickly". 

We should keep in mind that Amelia lived a full life, experiencing her 
dream of flying for sixteen years. She said, "The love of flying is the love of 
beauty. It was more beautiful up there than anything I had known". 


SOUTH HORIZON Local Space Chart 
poe — Earhart Departure 
Jul 02 1937 
Lae, Papua 
10:00:00 AM GST 
Zone: -10:00 

147E00'00" 


90 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


NOTES 


I. Or more accurately stated, they are an extension of LS chart maps; that is, LS charts 
turned around so that north is 'up' and east is to the right as we would usually view 
a map. 


2. Another source for this information can be found in Steve Cozzi's book, Planets in 
Locality, in the table entitled 'Travel and Relocation on Planetary Lines'. 


3. Jeff Jawersays of the Jupiter Local Space line, “This is the direction to spread your 
wings, to move beyond old limits and live a life of high adventure". 


4. An interesting word for astrologers: from ‘disaster’ [dis-aster], meaning against or 
counter to the stars. 


5. Self-deception (idiomatically, the French ‘mauvaise foi') is just as possible on Nep- 
tune lines and locations as is deception from others. 


6. Thanks to Steve Cozzi for first suggesting that I investigate Lindbergh's maps. 


7. This historical account (from Air France magazine, August 1998) of the first flight 
ever over the Andes in 1921 by French aviatrix Adrienne Holland is so good and ex- 
emplary of the dangers of that era that I'll include it here: 

"It was 1 April 1921, Adrienne was hunched over the controls in 
her tiny bath-tub like cockpit, an icy wind tossing the frail-looking plane 
about as if it were a toy. She was flying too high above the Andes. Her 
nose and mouth were full of blood. Bitter cold burned her hands and feet. 
Her vision was blurred. She felt dizzy and could hardly breathe in the 
rarefied atmosphere two-and-a-half miles above the earth. Adrienne was 
lost in the high-altitude wilderness. At times the plane was sucked down, 
and she gripped the throttle with all her might. The wings flapped and 
trembled... After ten hellish minutes, Adrienne spotted an oyster-shaped 
lake below. She had no idea where she was. 

Shortly before her departure, a Brazilian woman who had read 
about the pilot in the papers walked into her hotel room. She left Adrienne 
some medals and a piece of advice: "When you're lost up there, you'll 
fly over an oyster-shaped lake. There'll be a valley to your right, which 
will look like the right way. It's not. Make a left toward a wall of solid rock 
that looks insurmountable". 

Spitting blood, Adrienne turned left and headed straight toward 
the wall. She quickly discovered that when wind hits a mountain it is de- 
flected skyward in the same way that the water in a stream flies into the 
air when it hits rocks in the rapids. She flew headlong into the blade of 
the wind, coming close to the wall. The wind lifted her aeroplane and 
carried it up, climbing the sheer rock face until a breach opened behind 
a peak. Adrienne steered the plane into the pass and suddenly found 
herself flying above peaceful valleys, with the Pacific straight ahead. 


91 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


In Santiago, she was feted like no women before her. But the French 
consul was not there. He thought this business about a woman aviator who 
had conquered the Andes was an April Fool's joke!" 


8. A recent biography of Lindbergh makes the point that he was the 20" century's 
first media hero because of the newly emploved ‘wireless’, which instantly informed 
the whole world of his exploits. 


9. The 91 Before Lindbergh, by Peter Allen. Airlife Books, UK. 1984. 


10. There is a Sufi word for this, 'taqwa’, being in the right place at the right time 
without knowing why. 


11. Note that this Local Space information about Saturn and Jupiter in the east could 
have been surmised from the conjunctions of those planets with the anti-vertex in his 
natal (Detroit) and relocated (Roosevelt Field) charts respectively. 


12. See my article in the British Astrological Journal, “Local Space Astrology", Nov/ 
Dec 1989, page 324, for the introduction of the terms ‘bi-paran’ and ‘destiny point" 
into astrological use. 


13. This is the same as in 'traditional' astrological techniques, where natal data always 
contain unchanging and pertinent information, regardless of subsequent relocation. 


14. Certainly don't rule out using relocated data for discovering destiny points, espe- 
cially if the subject has lived at a relocated place for some time. 


15. The. Lunation Cycle, by Dane Rudhyar, Aurora Press, 1986 


16. The diagram holds equally true for either my Mean or True Node. Separated by 
only 0 degrees 22 minutes of zodiacal degree, their slightly different alignments over 
the earth are hardly distinguishable from each other at this magnification. 


17. It is interesting to note that the Sabian symbol for my PF (natally at 22 degrees 
Sagittarius) in both the Marc EJones and D. Rudhyar interpretations refers to the 
ability of maintaining one's poise in unfamiliar or alien environments; certainly a 
helpful boost for me as a Westerner travelling in the Himalayas. 


18. Quotes from article "Amelia Earhart" by Virginia Morell, National Geographic, 
January 1998 


19. An Earhart cult has continued to thrive. A recent web search revealed at least 136 
sites devoted to or concerning her. 


20. The area of the Pacific around Howland was largely unknown and poorly charted 
at that time. Howland was placed in the wrong position on the map she had been sent 
by her navigational consultant. Ironically, in a survey conducted a year earlier, the 
discrepancy had been corrected, but the new information hadn't worked its way into 


92 


LOCAL SPACE CHART MAPS AND DESTINY POINTS 


print. Howland Island was not where they expected it to be. Another factor might have 
been a radio problem or her lack of expertise in radio communications. The US ship 
Itasca was waiting at Howland to guide her in. They received one message from her 
stating she heard them but couldn't home in on their position. They transmitted con- 
tinuously but didn't hear from Amelia again. Reasonable two-way communication 
might have saved her life. Excerpted from The Sound of Wings, by Mary S. Lovell. 
Hutchinson, London, 1991. 


93 


CHAPTER FOUR 


The Local Space chart in the home, community and beyond; 
Special studies in Local Space 


THE LOCAL SPACE CHART IN THE HOME, 
COMMUNITY AND BEYOND 


In my introduction to the Local Space technique (see Chapter 2) I pointed out 
that Michael Erlewine saw ".. the visible horizon being much like a magical 
circle" and that the use of such circles with directional power points is found 
in mystery traditions. I also stated that information from Local Space charts 
bears a striking similarity to what one hopes to obtain from the Chinese sys- 
tem of Feng Shui (which idiomatically means ‘perfect placement’). 

This ancient art has guided the Chinese people for thousands of years 
in designing their cities, building their homes and even in burying their dead. 
The idea behind Feng Shui is to be able to read the patterns of the universe 
and live in harmony with them, especially as they relate to one's environment. 
In the past this powerful body of knowledge has focused on its general prin- 
ciples, not including individual directional patterns in its considerations. Uti- 
lising the Local Space charts! of today, however, we can refine this by adding 
our specific astrological information to the techniques of 'perfect placement’. 


In short 

The Local Space chart can be utilised as the individual's specific geomantic 
compass for determining arrangements in harmony with his/her immediate 
environment. In the discussion that follows, I will show how we can go about 
using our Local Space information in our home or office, in our community 
and then even beyond into the farthest reaches of the cosmos: 


The Local Space Chart in the home or office 

The Local Space technique is ideal for tuning into the situation and/or arrange- 
ments in our immediate environment. Cozzi’ says it nicely: "Everything around 
you has a symbolic and literal meaning, and through the use of the Local Space 
chart you can begin to discover the vast interplay of the spiritual and material 
worlds". 


95 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Important points 


¢ It must be stressed that — as with all the astrolocality techniques - a fairly 
accurate birth time is necessary. Hopefully, it will be accurate to within half 
an hour or better. The more vague you believe your birth time to be, the more 
tolerance or leeway you should give to the exactitude of your directional in- 
formation. 


* JI recommend you use your natal data for this in-close work, even if like 
me, you now reside a great distance form your original birthplace’. If in doubt 
try both your natal and relocated data and decide for yourself. 


The idea is to bring together a floor plan or diagram of your home, 
room or office with your planetary Local Space lines. 


Here's how to do it: 

I. Calculate (and print) your Local Space chart. If possible, choose a form that 
presents you with north at the top, otherwise you'll simply have to turn it 
around to use it. When the Local Space chart is used as a geomantic compass, 
planetary effect is represented by a two-way vector, a line which runs both 
towards and away from the planet (since it is truly the origin of a global great 
circle)*. Figure 55 illustrates what I mean. It shows a Local Space wheel turned 
into a geomantic compass by having the north at top and each planet repre- 
sented by a line. If you have a wheel form that displays the lines this way, use 
it’, Otherwise, it is a straightforward procedure to turn a Local Space wheel 
into a compass. See Step 4 below to do this. I would include the 10 planetary 
lines as well as the node line. If health, healing or teaching issues are involved, 
you might want to include Chiron as well, although things can begin to get 
crowded with too many lines. 


2. Draw a diagram of your living or office space if you can't obtain a floor plan. 
It would be very useful if you can add lots of detail to it. Delineate such things 
as the specific rooms, furniture, windows, important functional areas, and so on. 


3. It's easiest to have a transparency of either your Local Space chart or the 
floor plan in order to overlay the information from both sources. If you are 
careful, it may also be adequate to simply draw your planetary lines on the 
floor plan’. 


4. As noted in Step 1 and Figure 55, planetary lines work in both directions. 
If you have a Local Space wheel and wish to create a compass, you will have 
to draw a line for each planet. To do this, find the centre point of your Local 
Space chart and, using a straight edge and marker pen, first draw a line from 
the centre to the planet and then extend that line from the centre to the other 
side of the circle. | would include the IO planetary lines as well as the node 


96 


Martin Davis 
Natal Chart 

7 Sept 1937 
10:58:AM 

St Louis 

38N37 090W12 


Figure 55 


line. Again, if health, healing or teaching issues are involved, you might want 
to include Chiron as well, although these extra lines can make your diagram 
crowded. 


5. The next step is to determine where true north is on the diagram or floor 
plan of the home or office. One should have a general idea of north at a right 
angle from the approximate sunrise/sunset positions of the locality’ A com- 
pass is helpful of course, but care has to be taken to obtain the proper correc- 
tion from magnetic north to true north. Another way to get the northern align- 
ment is to use a commercial map of your locality. Some very accurate maps 
actually show three north directions: true north (the one we want), magnetic 
north and map north. 


6. One must now find the centre of the floor plan or diagram from which to 
align the Local Space compass. Finding the centre of a room in a home or office 
should be straightforward, with a satisfactory accuracy obtained by pacing it 
off. Determining the centre of a house (especially if it has patios) or a floor plan 
with adjoining rooms might be more difficult. Ideally one would want the true 
geometric centre of the area, but sometimes a functional centre is more ap- 
propriate. The only guide 1 can offer here is a general one: Locate the geo- 
metric centre first and use it, but in some cases try using other, functional 
centres. 


97 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


7. Now you are ready to place your Local Space compass over/on the floor 
plan. Be sure to have the centres of both aligned as well as the directions. Figure 
56 is floor plan of my large working and den space with some of the Local 
Space planetary lines superimposed on it. 


8. Note that planetary energy works in both directions along each complete 
planetary line. Planetary conjunction and opposition lines will come together 
on the chart as one, indicating a blending of their energy over objects and di- 
rection on the floor plan. 


9. Now comes the review and analysis of the lines! Think of the directional 
lines as making conjunctions with objects and living spaces as well as leading 
to things. Planetary lines have an attraction or repulsion to various objects and 
types of spaces. Perhaps it's more accurate to say they are in harmony with 
some and in disharmony with others. These correspondences are typical of 
astrology in general, and we can look to classical astrology to give us an idea 
what they may be. A Sun line for example would favour gold- or orange-col- 
oured round objects, the metal gold itself, as well as objects that are personal- 
ised and important to the individual. Noting the Sun's obvious characteristics, 
we could see that stoves, fireplaces and warm parts of a house would be en- 
hanced by a Sun line. William Lilley associated the Sun with dining rooms (as 
well as great halls), and generally we can see how creative areas of a house - 
such as play rooms - would be enhanced as well. For a female, lines leading 
to a husband or male partner's living space would be enhanced by the Sun 
direction, another obvious astrological correlation. 


10. More specifically, let's review my personal lines again as shown in Fig- 
ure 56. I arranged the room a few years ago without Local Space information, 
just by what seemed right for function and aesthetics. Note the Uranus line 
points right to my computer, an apt correspondence. My Sun, Mercury and 
Neptune lines, in Local Space conjunction, make hits in both directions. One 
way they lead me right out of the doorway to the rest of the house. The other 
way they cross over what I call my ‘communication centre’, shelves holding 
two telephones, a fax machine and my internet connection. I feel these are for- 
tuitous alignments. The dreaded Saturn line falls on a table that holds stacked 
trays for incoming business requests as well as bills due. I often refer to the 
overflowing trays as 'the mess’. The Saturnian energy seems to appropriately 
describe it. The Venus line in one direction falls on shelves holding my music 
collection and in the other direction points to the wardrobe that holds my better 
clothes (not shown). Jupiter points in both directions to tables that hold items 
dear to me - like photos from my Himalayan journey. One such table is at the 
foot of my bed shown in the upper right of the floor plan. 

Note that the use of the compass alone won't give us all the informa- 
tion we might need to study our living or working environments. For exam- 


98 


Figure 56 


ple, I was told by a visiting Feng Shui expert that because my room was a mess, 
my affairs would be in a mess and that my rickety office furniture meant a 
rickety business for me. She cautioned that even my stuffed and overflowing 
trash bin was impacting negatively on my occupation. I corrected these things 
and found the results to be very satisfying. Experts can also advise on best 
placement of objects in the so-called 'money corner' of a room to improve one's 
income. In short, it's fascinating to see how the immediate arrangement and 
condition of our environment may affect us more broadly than imagined. 


99 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


The Local Space compass in action 

It may be helpful at this point to call upon the work of four experienced as- 
trologers who actually have incorporated the Local Space techniques into their 
Feng Shui consultations. Let us now look at some input from Angel Thompson, 
Steve Cozzi, and Ralph and Lahni DeAmicis. 


Angel Thompson’ is noted for her writing and consulting in the field of Feng 
Shui, her endeavours in popularising Local Space and in directing the Con- 
tinuum organisation, which furthers the field of Astro*Carto*Graphy. In ap- 
pendix 3 she shares her insights with us on Planetary Lines in Your House. They 
will be very helpful for those exploring this geomantic use of Local Space. To 
them she adds important advice for us, which she has titled Moving the Moon: 


“Remember that all areas of the house are naturally ruled by 
one of these planets. Further, the directions run on a continuum: 
east will eventually turn to west; north will eventually run into 
south. 

Ifyou are able to arrange your home to align with the natu- 
ral meaning of the planets, for example, if by luck and coincidence, 
you are able to sleep on your Moon line, all the better. If your 
furniture is placed on unfavourable lines, you can modify the ef- 
fect by using the colours and shapes of other planets you desire to 
modify the space. For example, using silvery blues, or other Moon 
related colours on or near your bed, you can 'move the Moon’ to 
the bedroom. If you want to be alone in your office, emphasise 
Pluto colours; if you want to feel strong, use Mars objects. In this 
way, you can modify the effects of the lines through interior de- 
sign and arrange your life to maximise the potential of your plan- 
ets and your space." 


Steve Cozzi’ has some important and helpful tables in his book, Planets in 
Locality, on this subject. They are entitled Planetary Lines in the Home, Planetary 
Intersections with Objects and Fixtures in and around the Home and Case Examples 
of Planetary Lines Throughout the Home. 

He found (perhaps not too surprisingly) that Saturn lines caused the most 
problems for his clients. In general, delicate objects didn't fare too well on 
Saturn's line. If a Sun item like a fireplace was hit by Saturn, he found that 
clients reported they couldn't keep the fire going effectively. Water pipes don't 
seem to be harmonious with Saturn lines either, as they lose pressure and freeze 
in the winter. Saturn lines were effective, however, when leading to darker, 
quieter or colder parts of a house or to pillars, doors and stairways. It’s astro- 
logically understandable that Mars, Pluto and Neptune lines are also problem- 
atical when hitting inharmonious objects. 


100 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Mars lines through a Mercury object like a telephone might mean it would need 
replacing several times and even that a preponderance of irritable and argu- 
mentative calls would result. Beautiful objects (Venus) can be damaged when 
met by a Pluto line, and leaky water taps seem impossible to fix when they 
are in a Neptune direction. 


Ralph and Lahni DeAmicis’® may be the most active American Feng Shui 
practitioners who blend Local Space into their consultations, using the 'com- 
pass’ about fifty per cent of the time. They do caution us however that "Local 
Space by itself is not a substitute for a good grounding in ergonomic design, 
and a knowledge of the nature of energy pathways". In brief, here is a list of 
how Ralph and Lahni find each planetary energy can best be applied: 


The Sun: Where you feel most centred, creative, warm; good for a bed- 
room, office, family room. 


The Moon: Good activity area for nurturing, emotional connecting, 
sleeping. Beware, things move on a Moon line. This is the first place to 
look for your missing keys. 


Mercury: The telephone, communications, working with the hands, 
consulting, parking your bicycle. 


Venus: Social, artistic, loving, sleeping, harmonising diverse needs, con- 
ference and mediation rooms. 


Mars: High physical activity, exercise, games, loving, but not necessarily 
sleeping. May be too ego centred to unwind. 


Jupiter: Expansion, athletics, good for an exercise room, not good for 
the refrigerator (could expand your waistline!). Generally good sleep- 
ing line depending on the tone of the planet. Good home office line. 
Good for the health. 


Saturn: Structured, ambitious, reserved. Good for an office if it relates 
to practical issues. Stiffening. Sleeping on a Saturn line tends to make a 
person feel mature, but sometimes oppressed. 


Uranus: Computers, televisions, electronics gravitate to a Uranus line. 
Exciting, disruptive, inventive, not good for sleeping. The unexpected 
happens here. 


Neptune: Dissolving, relaxing, meditative, intoxicating, illusionary. 
Great place to sleep or unwind. Things tend to disappear on a Neptune 
line. Second place to look for your keys. 


101 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Pluto: Secretive, powerful, sexual, transformational, great for a massage 
room, or any type of deep therapy. It can be very isolating, but people 
are drawn to sleep on a Pluto line when they feel the need for deep 
change. 


Chiron: A good healing room, consulting, study, meditation. 
Ceres: The kitchen, the studio. 

Pallas: The work room, the weaving room, massage room. 
Juno: The bedroom, family room, studio. 

Vesta: The home office, the kitchen, the healing room. 


More from the DeAmicis' broad experience: 

"The hardest line to move off is Saturn's line. If a person is sleeping on 
that Saturn line, no matter how stiff their joints are upon awakening, they resist 
moving the bed. In that case the best thing to do is have them buy pieces of 
the crystal rose quartz and put them by the bed stand and between the mat- 
tress and bed springs. Saturn controls crystals, so this way you play the energy 
out and convert the energy over to one that is more loving and flexible. Some- 
times it's helpful to put a picture of a large structure or building on the Saturn 
line to play the energy out. 

The sign position of that planet has as much significance in the Local 
Space chart as it does in the classic horoscope, and the condition via rulership, 
exaltation, etc., will show how well that Local Space line will serve the person. 

When people have lived in a house for a long time and have been able 
to decorate to their hearts content, if they are reasonably healthy people in an 
emotional way, they will literally play all of their lines out It is the way in which 
a house completely becomes them because it is a true expression of their 
energies being projected by their aura 

When we consult we bring a Local Space Chart for each resident. What 
does it do for us? It will show the nature of a problem when there is no obvi- 
ous reason in the Feng Shui design." Here are some examples: 


¢« "The bed is placed well, commanding the door, not too much light, no op- 
pressive features. The husband can't sleep there, and when he does it means 
nightmares. His Saturn line runs down his side of the bed. Saturn is representa- 
tive of the father. From our discussions with him we find their relationship was 
horrific. Every time he lies down on that line he vibrates to that energy. But in 
the other bedroom we find his Jupiter line, related to generosity and good 
health. Change bedrooms!A couple is arguing, but always in the same two 
places in the kitchen, the table and the sink. The space design is harmonious, 
but the husband has parallel Mars and Mercury lines through the table, lead- 
ing him to intense explosions of aggressive energy, that he soon gets over. By 
the sink he has parallel Pluto and Saturn lines. So when he gets mad there it's 
about deep seated power and father issues. The wife has a bundle of energies 


102 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


running near those locations, Sun, Moon and Venus, resulting in intense and 
emotional responses. So the angry kitchen scenario repeats and repeats: He 
gets mad, it challenges her identity and self worth, she digs in to defend her- 
self, he doesn't understand why she can't just get over his outbursts. Her en- 
ergy is fine there. The problem is his energy, so we need to play his energy 
out. The solution is simple, put some bright red apples in a silvery bowl to pay 
off that Mars-Mercury energy, and then eat in the dining room where the lines 
are more harmonious for both of them. It works!" 


« "A woman can't sleep later than five in the morning in her bed. Her sleep 
patterns there tend to be unpredictable. However, her sexual experience in 
the space is positive, and in fact very exciting. There is nothing in the ergo- 
nomic design that explains that. In fact the bed is in the committed relation- 
ship section of the room and it's well centred against the wall. Yet she has a 
part time relationship that does not shout of commitment that yields a very 
entertaining, if somewhat sporadic love life. Well, running down the length of 
the bed is a Venus-Uranus in Leo line! Great for exciting and inventive romantic 
experiences, but that Uranus line is generally too stimulating for sleeping. After 
the client rejects the solution of moving the bed (big surprise!), we suggest that 
she hang a colourful mobile with lots of turquoise and silver over the bed. She 
hangs up an Indian medicine bag. This is perfect. These are colours and ma- 
terials that relate to the Uranus energy. Out of the usual context, it comes from 
a different culture; its eccentric, like Uranus. By letting the vibration transmit 
itself through her interaction with this moving object, it does not need to ex- 
press itself through her physical body. Part of the key here was that she needed 
to be able to see the expression of the energy. If it had been a turquoise bed- 
spread it probably would not have been as effective. With a Uranus energy it 
is important that the interaction be visual, and preferably where it contacts that 
outer edges of the person's aura. Here we played out the Uranus energy, but 
not the Venus energy. What was the result? The very next day she slept to 
seven. The next day to nine. The next day she slept to ten, and had to buy an 
alarm clock. Then she began sleeping through the alarm. Why? Venus, the 
indulger, who had been sharing a bed with the eccentric Uranus, suddenly was 
free to express its self in true Leo nature, staying in bed late. When the ener- 
gies have been stuck for a long time they sometimes come back with a roar." 


« "A women had been sleeping on her Pluto (in Leo) line for ten years. In 
true Pluto fashion her life was always life or death extremes. She had a promi- 
nent Neptune and shared her bed periodically with her mysterious and decep- 
tive boyfriend, but was unable to ever align her sleep patterns with his. She 
was a body worker, and her work room had her Neptune line running in it. 
We had them move their bed to the Neptune line. They were now able to sleep 
wonderfully at the same time. Problem was, they were used to being up early 


103 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


and out of the house on weekends. Now it was one o'clock in the afternoon 
and they were still trying to get out of the bedroom. Neptune is dreamy. She 
called us and said we should offer a precautionary warning before moving a 
person's bed onto the Neptune line! So we suggested that she start putting some 
Neptunian imagery in there. Fish, sea shells, dreamy images, and keep add- 
ing them until she got a good balance between sleeping well and getting out 
of the bed easily." 


* "Kitchens are a natural place to hang out, but we had a client who had her 
Mercury in Gemini line running along the edge of her table by the door. 
Whenever she sat on that chair, and it was her favourite chair, (why? - because 
Mercury is in rulership), she basically half sat because she was always being 
called to jump up and run into the other room for something." 


« "We have had many clients who were unable to use their family or living 
rooms because they had a Mars line running through it. They sat down and 
immediately felt the need to do something." 


¢ "Transits set things off too. We had a client who had been sleeping well, 
then, at the time of her Uranus opposition, she moved her bed onto her Ura- 
nus line, and her sleep got very erratic. Of course since it was her Uranus 
opposition she didn’t mind it. Sometimes clients at their Uranus opposition time 
will respond by moving all their stereo and TV electronics close to their bed. 
We had another client who was designing his house during his Uranus oppo- 
sition, and he had set the floor plan up so that both he and his wife would be 
sleeping on their Uranus lines! Fortunately we were able to convince them to 
redesign. While the resulting sleep deprivation would seem normal during the 
heights of the transit, after Uranus had moved on it would become tiring and 
unhealthy for them." 


¢ "When people come into a prospective apartment and immediately know 
that this is the one (that is they love it) you can bet that they have either Sun, 
Moon or Venus running through the front door. If Saturn is running through 
the front door they will see it as a good investment, and work like crazy to afford 
it. While in classical Feng Shui the belief is that a southern facing door is most 
beneficial, while generally true, it really depends upon the chart. For instance 
we had a client who had a poorly aspected and retrograde Saturn in Capri- 
corn at the mid heaven of his chart. He had a house that had a southern fac- 
ing front door, so that Saturn line went right through it. From the time he 
moved into the house bis life was a disaster; the problems stemming from taking 
the wrong advice from an older and respected member of his community. He 
was close to losing everything, and only came through it because of his wife's 
support; she had a better line there. To give one an idea of how well Saturn 
can keep a person in a fixed reality, when he was looking to move to other 


104 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


houses after this one, he picked ones with the same southern facing front doors, 
and even more difficult environments in terms of negative Saturn qualities." 


¢« “Another client had Mars and Vesta lines running through her kitchen. 
While both of these lines can mean ovens, we find Vesta often relates to Grand- 
parents. So what did she have in her kitchen? Two stoves, one new, and there 
on the Vesta line, another that was an antique." 


The Local Space Chart in our communities, towns and cities 
We have discussed how the straight directional lines (vectors) of the geomantic 
compass remain accurate up to about 50 map miles, after which we should 
begin to use Local Space maps. This makes the compass a valuable tool for 
looking at cities and towns that may be local to us. There are two approaches 
to this: 


(a) Using a personal geomantic compass: In this, the most popular 
approach, take your geomantic compass (Local Space) and place it over the 
map of your local neighbourhood or city. The anchor point is your residence, 
such that all directional lines radiate outward from there. Be sure that the north 
of the compass aligns with the true north of the map and then observe where 
the lines fall on the map. 

The energy of each planetary line should affect the quality of events for 
you in those directions and at the destinations as well. Here too Saturn lines 
often cause us the most trouble; one astrologer, for example, reported that it 
ran direcdy to a shop where she had been cheated by a butcher who was us- 
ing a fraudulent scale. Saturn may point to your work site if you don't like your 
job, but it can also indicate a path to a location where patience and diligence 
and ultimate success will be found. Cozzi gives us an interesting insight into 
work lines. He states," "The line that runs from your home to where you work 
often describes the type of work you do, or it may reflect your attitude about 
your work". He goes on to suggest that the absence of a line here may indi- 
cate your job has no great meaning”. 

Here's another example: an individual recounted an incident of 'road 
rage’ where he nearly came to blows with another driver. This event happened 
on his angry, conjoining Mars-Pluto directional line, which radiated outward 
to the North and South from his home. 

Figure 57 shows my geomantic lines anchored from my residence in the 
Borders region of Scodand to other neighbouring cities within a radius of 50 
miles. This map represents my local community, as journeys from my rural 
home require longer travel than if I lived in a city proper. A frequent journey 
for me (to the northwest) is to Edinburgh, where I still practice my sport of 
foil fencing. Note that this aligns with my conjoining Mars and node lines. 
Travelling for sport is surely well represented by a Mars line, and the accom- 


105 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


g © 
Figure 57 

panying Node direction could represent my frequent coming and going to the 
Edinburgh airport, as well as the astrological contacts and alliances I have made 
there. That same line running in the opposite southeast direction takes me to 
the town of Berwick-on-Tweed, where I catch the train to London (Node line). 
I'm often late in getting to that station, speeding along while feeling hurried 
and pressured as I try to get there on time, a situation which reflects negative 
Mars qualities. The Uranus line points direcdy to another city, closer to home, 
where I occasionally practice as well. Sometimes I find that no adult fencers 
are present there, so I return home without a proper workout. Uranus seems 
to describe the uncertain nature ofevents I am faced with there. My Venus line 
runs southwest to within one mile of a prominent Buddhist community. Al- 
though I've never actually visited the site, I do maintain e-mail contact with 
their director of studies, who has provided me with information about books, 
videos and helpful contacts in general. And, last but not least, the Sun line runs 
to my nearest town of Duns, where I do chores like banking and shopping and 
make my contacts with the community. Perhaps the solar quality connecting 
me to Duns explains why I feel positive and confident on my trips there and 
why I usually return home having accomplished my objectives. 


106 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Important point 

When a person changes residence in a city they are shifting the anchor point 
of their geomantic compass. If they now travel on new (different) directional 
lines to a destination (like a work site), would this actually alter the quality of 
their experience at the destination itself? In other words, might moving house 
change the nature of one's experience in that city? The answer to this seems 
to be yes from both my experience and Cozzi's as well. For example, over a 
12-year period I lived in five different neighbourhoods in the city of Philadel- 
phia. Each change of residence corresponded with an inner shift on my part, 
altering my view of work and the city itself. Cozzi agrees, stating’, "It is my 
experience that if you change your residence within your community, your 
whole orientation can change along with it"’*. 


(b) Using a city's own geomantic compass: A less used but informa- 
tive technique is to create a geomantic compass from the founding or incor- 
poration data of the town or city itself. This compass is placed over the city 
centre and the lines are used to give us information about how the city has de- 
veloped. When giving a workshop in a city, I will try and obtain that city's 


MANCHESTER 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


‘birth’ data. Using that information, I create a compass and overlay it upon 
the city's map. Figure 58 is just such an overlay for the city of Manchester in 
the UK'®. The centre of the compass has been placed over the town hall. The 
first information of note is that the Neptune line, running northward, crosses 
the location where a bomb was placed in 1996. It blew up, almost completely 
destroying all of the Arndale shopping area. This is appropriate symbolism, 
as Neptune can represent loss and sorrow (as well as the dissolution of a situ- 
ation); but with Neptune, things are not always as they seem. Although the blast 
resulted in the complete destruction of the seedy area, it became an opportu- 
nity for the city to rebuild it, constructing a bright new area. The Sun line of 
the Manchester compass runs southeast down Oxford Road, the busiest traf- 
fic thoroughfare in the city and one that leads to the city's universities. There 
are other correspondences; an interesting one is the Chiron line, which to the 
northeast crosses Piccadilly Gardens, the site of Manchester's famous mental 
hospital, which was bombed in WWII and not rebuilt. 

The DeAmicis' have used city data in their work. They state, “Cities and 
towns have Local Space lines. Their prosperous main streets are typically on 
Sun lines, the fanciest shopping are on Venus lines, garages on Mercury lines, 
and due to the nature of duality both the Churches and the seediest bars will 
be found on the Neptune line. Look for the herbalist shops, healing centers 
and health food stores on the Chiron and Jupiter lines." 

Steve Cozzi gives an example by using Denver, Colorado's geomantic 
compass superimposed over a map of the city'®. He found some good corre- 
spondences: the Neptune line pointing to a polluted military area, the Moon 
line to a lake, the node line to an airport, Mars’ line to military training cen- 
tres, Saturn's line to a poor area of town and Jupiter's vector pointing to afflu- 
ent neighbourhoods. 

Cozzi and J have both had some misses with this technique as well. I think 
the problem is mostly due to uncertainties with city data. Often it is unclear 
as to what is the proper or best 'birth’ time for a locality. Nevertheless, the use 
of the compass for this type of investigation can be informative, helpful and 
even fun. It is certainly one of the areas in Astrolocality astrology that needs 
more investigation, one day, perhaps, by a reader of this book! 


The Horizon in outer space 

Earlier in the book, it was explained how Local Space charts are calculated 
from the apparent or visible horizon'’. The so-called ‘true’ horizon is a great 
circle parallel to this visible circle. It divides the earth equally into a top and 
bottom from where we stand. In their book Astrophysical Directions (1977)", the 
Erlewines alert us to its importance. They write, "The authors (Michael and 
Margaret Erlewine) have found that the entire horizon is sensitive and not only 
the points where it relates to the zodiac (such as the ascendant). The orientation 
of the horizon sphere provides a framework in which to examine our relationship 


108 


ers 


260 


Sew ; 
120 110 100 s0/ 80 70 ™o m2 2 0% 
a 


Fatauhnduelserkssderalantassbordsalanotwooksnd rsdiastaonbsedesdwtakndut 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


to all cosmic structure. For instance, the natal horizon passes through a particular 
band of constellations that becomes your own set of constellations". 

Admittedly, this idea is as speculative as it is interesting. Today, however, 
with the aid of computer programs” we can view an overlay of our horizon 
upon the constellations and make up our own minds. Figure 59 will clarify this. 
Calculated for my birth moment and location, this diagram shows how the 
plane of my true horizon would be projected onto the fixed stars. It can be 
seen that it intersects the constellations Lacerta, Lyra, Hercules, Libra, 
Centaurus, Vela, Puppis, Lepus, Eridanus, Taurus, Aries, Triangulum and 
Andromeda. Myths surrounding these constellations would become indicators 
of my own personal unfolding at a deep, soul level. Let's look at my horizon's 
alignment with the constellation Lyra, for example. This constellation is asso- 
ciated with the myth of Orpheus and Enuridice, Lyra representing the tragic 
musician's Lyre”’. It could indicate I would need to experience an Orpheus- 
like journey in my life, perhaps into the underworld or shadow side of my 
psyche. The conjunction of my horizon with the fixed star Vega in that con. 
stellation might indicate ] would be popular with my contemporaries (for a soul 
purpose) or from other myths, have an affinity with dolphins or even be taught 
by the Muses. It might also point to other, more esoteric possibilities for me, 
such as Vega's identification with the Babylonian Star Dilgan, the Messenger 
of Light, or its position as the Pole-star some fourteen millenniums ago. Might 
I be an ancient soul, or am I simply out of date? 


Galactic Astrology and the Star Compass 

In their work Astrophysical Directions the Erlewines proposed that we include 
an additional perspective in our astrological studies. It is a view which shifts 
us from the traditional role of placing fixed stars onto our personal charts to 
one where the essentials of our charts (and the earth itself) are seen in align- 
ment with galactic parameters. In other words, it's about how we fit in with 
what's out there rather than how we squeeze ‘out there’ into our charts! This 
perspective offers us both an archaic revival of ancient astrological methods 
as well as a domain for contemporary astrologers to add the wisdom of cur- 
rent understanding. 

In its revitalised form the field today is called Galactic Astrology. It is 
said to deal best with issues of both our personal enlightenment and the po- 
tentialities of global consciousness. Astrologer Raymond Mardyks”’ is at the 
forefront of this approach. Mardyks works with a variety of techniques, one 
of which he calls ‘Star Wheels’. These wheels are a form of earth compass which 
identifies our star alignments. He says that by becoming aware of our star ener- 
gies we gain the opportunity for an expanded level of consciousness. 

Star Wheels are of interest to us for other reasons as well. Not only are 
they the ancestors of our contemporary Local Space wheels, their use going 
way back to ancient and indigenous cultures, but, perhaps more important, 


110 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


they remain pertinent today, providing us with new and powerful information. 

Although a Star Wheel can be created for any location we wish, we will 
look at Ray's work in constructing a Star Wheel for a sacred site near Sedona, 
Arizona, as it offers us an excellent example of its use. A Star Wheel is similar 
to our usual Local Space compass insofar as we record celestial positions rela- 
tive to the apparent horizon of our location. There are distinct differences, 
however: 


¢ We are observing stars and constellations rather than planets. 


¢ With a Star Wheel, we are watching the horizon to see where there will be 
a rising or setting star or constellation. In other words, we are only consider- 
ing 'smack on’, zero-altitude hits to the horizon. 


¢« We include all rising and setting activity during a 24-hour period (not lim- 
ited to a single moment in time, as with Local Space compasses derived from 
birth data). 


This all works well, however, as fixed stars and constellations will rise and set 
in a constant pattern over time (for an Epoch), shifting slightly over the years 
from the astronomical effect of Precession (one degree every 72 years). 


Lacerta 
the Lizard N 


Cygnus Lyre 
(head) ; Steamboat 

Lizard Rock ; 
“Twins 


Aauila 
ea) E 
Ale * 
a Rabbit 
Lepus 
the Rabbit 
we 
its 
WEST ~ 7* EAST — 
TINGS POSITION Ons RISING POSITION 


Argo Navis 


the Ship S 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Quoting Ray directly from his article "Star Temples in Stone"”, let’s get his 
view of a Star Wheel and how it functions. "From the center of a Star Wheel, 
each star and constellation appears to rise and set in a specific direction. Each 
star and constellation rises and sets in this same location along the horizon once 
a day. If you imagine a line of light from one of these centers to the place along 
the horizon where each star rises and sets, you can begin to see the energy lines 
or spokes of the Star Wheel. The place where the stars cross the horizon is 
significant because this is the threshold between the visible and invisible and 
also between the conscious and the unconscious......". 

Figure 60 is Mardyks' Cathedral Rock Star Wheel, one of a number of 
sites he believes to be important near Sedona, Arizona, in the USA. Unlike 
ancient temples, which were constructed to align with stars, Ray found this site 
to contain natural alignments “formed without any human participation or 
awareness". Inside the wheel we find the directions from Cathedral Rock to 
various imposing natural sites nearby, such as Eagle Mount, Lyra Rock, and 
other sites. Quoting Mardyks again, let's see the astounding correlation he 
discovered. "From Cathedral Rock, if you looked toward the rock formation 
called Lizard Head, this aligns you with where the stars of the constellation of 
the Lizard, called Lacerta, sets every day. If you looked toward the Twin Buttes, 
and saw 'through’ the rocks to the horizon, this is where the constellation of 
the Twins rises once a day". From Figure 60 the reader can note other corre- 
spondences he discovered, such as nearby Lyra Rock's direct alignment with 
the constellation Lyra”. Mardyks encourages us to employ Star Wheels to 
become aware of star energies, which he says are crucial for our personal de- 
velopment and for the earth's evolution as well. 


SPECIAL STUDIES IN LOCAL SPACE 


There are instances when Local Space is essential to make sense or give mean- 
ing to an Astrolocality study. In the examples that follow we will see how LS, 
used alone or with ACG, gives us valuable insight that we could not achieve 
from ACG alone: 


Marjan Moves to Scodand 

Marjan is a Dutch-born astrologer who now lives in Lockerbie, Scotland. I 
encountered her at a shop in Edinburgh where she was giving astrological 
consultations. Eavesdropping, I noticed her readings were lively and sensitive, 
emphasising Chiron and the Lunar Nodes along with other major chart place- 
ments. Marjan's life is notable for a variety of reasons, one of which was her 
completion of a 39-month retreat (3 years, 3 months and 3 days) at Samye Ling, 
the Buddhist centre in Scodand. Marjan took refuge in Buddhism and was in 
retreat there between 1993 and 1997. Her life story is one that is passion driven, 
filled with a yearning to find herself and the wish to help others. Marjan’s natal 
chart is shown in Figure 61. 


112 


ea 4901 30" 


Pee Fe ee tO. 
< vg 9528°26° 10° 7 
AP. «GN ee gir @ 
f ‘49’ ‘a * 00° & Ae 298114 50° . 1 5° 
i “ 06 Q . BU, ‘ T 
/1 a6 o4* Ps 10 i 9 ye wee \, 45° 
2p 14 NBN Le 
/ ar yy wee 
bey se Ee Marjan i has Ae 
ree 142/ July 12, 1955 a \46°: 
| : ! ; {| Groningen, Netherlands - Ne 
| f “———T™;, 10:00:00 AMCET as 
56": “4 ZONE: -01:00 156" 
: 4 006E33'00" oe 19 3¢ ; 
aN 53N13'00" ae 00° vy 
a oe 5 
. . oom K ‘AQ 
45° 28 8 4 ai 49 
2 25° Z a ai Ge 
Nei xs ‘4 g 8 
Aas 
lh oe Wien 
13°. 333 
: le ee Sea ti 
Yay 1 a a ae 
nm 12° 30" 
Figure 6] 


Marjan had investigated her ACG map but was disappointed, as it was devoid 
of any lines over Europe and Great Britain, the parts of the world where she 
spent most of her life. Not finding anything that corresponded with her life 
experience, she put Astrolocality astrology aside”. 

When we examine her LS map, however, helpful information emerges. 
Figure 62 is Marjan's map in European detail. We can note from it that her 
residence, Lockerbie, is exacdy on her Uranus line, where she lives in a new- 
found psychological freedom and from where she centres her astrology prac- 
tice as well. Further North, exactly on her Chiron line, is the site of her Bud- 
dhist retreat. It is here that her teacher, resides. Uranus and Chiron lines are 
fully compatible with these types of life situations. 

Marjan's LS Sun line runs through Edinburgh. She occasionally visits 
Edinburgh to work and re-establish a public role for herself. She feels good 
there, since it brings a balance with her essentially secluded life in Lockerbie, 
where she lives quietly with her partner, does her astrology and serves others 
as a helper-carer for the disabled. 

Her LS Moon line points just north of London. Her first visit there was 
on vacation with her older sister. It is there also, in North London, that she 
met and married a man whom she later divorced. She calls that episode in her 


113 


Figure 62 


life an "unconscious" one. Both travel with (or to) a female relative and the 
manifestation of an unconscious pattern are possible Moon-line issues. 

More: in Scodand, her relocated LS chart brings expansive, career-ori- 
ented Jupiter to the east, pushing aside the intense, psychological, easterly Pluto 
of the Netherlands LS chart. Her life in the Netherlands did have a psycho- 
logical intensity about it, since she dealt with issues involving her often-absent 
father (whom she calls "an alcoholic genius") and where she studied and prac- 
tised child psychology. 

Upon review, Marjan’s ACG map also gives us some interesting infor- 
mation, though nothing over areas where she lives. Some lines run through 
both Turkey and South Africa, for example, locations where two great loves 
in her life were born, but she has never visited either country. So, overall, it is 
the LS maps and charts that tell us the most about the 'what is’ for her today. 


A Love Story in Local Space; David and Martina fall in love 

David Meadows is a certified ACG practitioner now residing in Munich, 
Germany”. He is active and well known in the field. In his important and 
comprehensive book, Wherein the World with Astro *Carto *Graphy (AFA Publi- 
cations, to be published late 1999), David recounts his meeting and marriage 
to Martina in Dresden, East Germany, as shown from their ACG maps. Nota- 
ble in this love story is that, against all odds, they obtained official permission 
from the East German government to leave and move to Britain. At this time, 
before the fall of the Berlin Wall, such approval was an unlikely event. David 


114 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Local Space Chart 
David Meadows 
Mar 22 1955 
Leicester, England 
Sy 03:00:00 AM GMT 
in 001W05'00" 
7y 52N38'00" 


x 
14 17 Y ff 180] WEST 


NORTH 
Figure 64 


Local Space Chart Relocated 
David Meadows 
Mar 22 1955 
Dresden, Germany 
03:00:00 AM GMT 
013W44'00" 
51N03'00" 


SOUTH HORIZON 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


and Martina settled in Leicester, England, later moving to Munich, Germany 
(1991), where they reside today. 

What does LS add to this story of love's conquest of official intolerance 
and political division ? Let's look at their LS maps and see. To start with, David's 
map in European detail is shown in Figure 63. On it we see that his Venus and 
Pluto lines, in LS conjunction, reach out from his home in Leicester and arc 
across Europe, running (through Amsterdam) to Dresden, within an orb of 35 
miles from that city. What might this mean? David was empowered to find love 
(Venus) and take on the East German government (Pluto). It is most likely that 
if such a life scenario unfolded for him, it would be along those lines; and it 
did. Why might David even have dared to try and accomplish this? A look at 
his LS chart for Leicester, Figure 64, gives us a strong indicator. It shows Ve- 
nus empowered in the east (personal love) and Pluto in the west (psychologi- 
cal understanding/power issues with others). In other words, David felt the 
power to accomplish this feat from its inception. 

Once in Dresden, however, he no longer required the ‘chutzpah’ (bra- 
zenness) to accomplish his task, rather he needed to confront the East German 
authorities in just the right way, according to their own rules. And he was able 
to do just that, gaining the freedom for his bride and himself to move west- 
ward. What might his LS chart for Dresden tell us about this? Figure 65 is his 
LS chart relocated to Dresden. Note that the Moon and Mercury, in exact LS 
conjunction, are brought to within one degree (azimuth) of the east. He has 
Moon/Mercury power in Dresden or empowerment to successfully conclude 
legal or business actions concerning his wife. Also of note for this chart is that 
Jupiter and Uranus are both brought to less than 2 degrees of altitude from 
the horizon (not shown). Freedom was on his mind and in the air for him there 
in Dresden. 

From his Leicester-based LS map (Figure 63), we can also note that his 
Uranus line runs close to Munich, the city where he would ultimately settle 
with Martina. Towards the north east his Sun line runs direcdy to Stockholm, 
Sweden, where he has had much professional success and prominence, speak- 
ing there on radio and television. 

Now let's look at Martina’s side of the story from the LS perspective. 
Figure 66 is her LS map in European detail. Most interesting is that her LS 
Chiron line from Dresden runs right to her destination in Leicester. Perhaps 
this indicates a teaching role for David in her life or that this first stop, out of 
totalitarian East Germany, had a healing potential for her. Some miles south 
of Leicester we find her Uranus line as well, alerting us that this was a likely 
direction for her dash to freedom. Looking at Figure 67, her relocated LS chart 
for Leicester, we see a reinforcement of the theme of freedom. Note that free- 
dom-loving Uranus is brought exactly (0 azimuth) to the east there. This is a 
strong placement, with Uranus replacing the easterly Sun of her LS chart in 
Dresden. One imagines that at the time of her marriage she had had enough 


117 


Figure 66 


Local Space Chart 

SOUTH HORIZON M.Meadows Reolocated 
Aug 30 1956 
Leicester, England 
05:00:00 AM GMT 
001'W05'00" 
52N38'00" 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


of Saturnian governmental restraint and restriction and that she was delighted 
to move in a healing (Chiron line) and freedom-loving (Uranus line) direction. 
But like it or not, fate determined that Saturn would remain in her life for a 
while longer. Figure 67 shows us that in Leicester, along with Uranus in the 
East, Saturn is brought uncomfortably close to the north. As explained ear- 
lier, this means Saturn was near the IC of her relocated ecliptic chart there, 
admittedly a difficult placement for one’s residence”. 

Earlier in this book we also discussed the information obtained from 
shifting aspect patterns in LS charts. Let's have a look at this for Martina: when 
we compare all the locations where she and David lived - Dresden, Leicester 
and later Munich — it is noteworthy that in Leicester her Local Space Saturn 
and Uranus are brought most closely into an uncomfortable square aspect, 94 
degrees of azimuth or only 4 degrees out of orb from an exact square. Ebertin 
in his work The Combination of Stellar Influences (AFA, 1972) calls this a chal- 
lenging combination, often associated with irritability, inhibition and tension. 
This potential aspect is much less powerful, or out of orb, in her LS charts for 
Dresden (80 degrees azimuth separation) and Munich (79 degrees azimuth 
separation). As it is very much out of orb in her natal ecliptic chart (in square 
by sign but at 112 ecliptic degrees of separation), she would inherently find 
this a difficult energy to live with on a day-to-day basis. 

With Martina becoming unhappy in Leicester, David and Martina re- 
considered their living options once again. When she still resided in Dresden, 
Munich was in her LS Saturn direction, probably not making it an appealing 
possibility for her. From Leicester, however, Munich was now approximately 
in Martina's Venus path. Approaching Munich from this direction brought out 
its venusian possibilities for them, and it seemed to be the right move. They 
happily reside there today. 


Local Space in Mundane astrology: the USA chart for Philadelphia, 
11.00AM, 4th July 1776 
A fertile area for Local Space analysis is in the field of mundane astrological 
research. LS maps, for example, indicate the directionality associated with the 
politically related events for a country or world region. This in turn can help 
us with rectification studies when a mundane birth time is unknown or in dispute. 

There is currendy a divergence of opinion as to the best chart for the birth 
of the USA or even if one chart alone can ever provide us a satisfactory amount 
of information. After many years of detailed research, British astrologer Ronald 
W Howland proposed an American birth time of 1100 AM on 4 July 1776, 
Philadelphia, PA. His well-researched work is presented in his book A Chro- 
nology of American Charts". 

1s this chart a good one? A look at it from the Astrolocality perspective 
shows some startling correspondences that indicate that yes, it's certainly 
worthy of further serious study. Figure 68 is the chart itself. Astrologers will 


119 


29°. ~~ 22" 
7 2 4130502" 21° age 7 : 
gS I x 
o & : ; 
04" QR \ 190559471 12" 55° @ \28° 
2 3a" \ : ye" <p 
29°/ ™ . \. <0 i 9 ae .07"\ 
‘. i ™ ls <8 a 7 20° & xs \ 
ae - Y USA, Howland Chart og _ 
‘28/8 .  (42/ duly04,1776 0 \7 We 
> rad Philadelphia,PA |_| 28° | 
rt 11:00:00 AM LMT se 25 Wi | | 
\ 34°| 1 \ ZONE: +00:00 : 
mM on 48" 075W09'00" 
1" Ne \ __ 39N57'00" . 
BA ae, Ff 
Or, = a : 4 , me — F ; 
eS ia ae ee RA 34° 23° > Pe 
o7"™. / i atts anes 9° / 


ees Local Space Chart 
USA Howland Chart 
July 04 1776 
Philadelphia, PA 
11:00:00 AM LMT 
Zone: +00:00 
075W09'00" 
39N57'00" 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


note the Virgo rising with Neptune prominent, the Gemini midheaven and the 
Aquarius Moon. Ron alerts us to the significance of the angular positions in 
the so-called ‘late mutables’ as well*®. Certainly an Aquarian Moon could ex- 
plain the USA population as the oft-quoted melting pot, and the Gemini MH 
could shed light on the development of its two-party system and its leading- 
edge communication systems. 

The prominent Neptune, some 6 degrees from the chart's Virgo ascend- 
ant, may be what first captures one's eye, so let's look at the LS chart for fur- 
ther insights on this. Figure 69 is the corresponding LS chart. From it we can 
see that Neptune is tremendously empowered — exacdy in the east at 0 degrees 
of azimuth. 

What does this mean? With the Howland chart we get a confirmation of 
Neptune's influence over American actions and the American collective psy- 
che, ie., what's on the collective American mind”’: 


* Neptune is associated with dreams, images, fantasy and illusion. In 
the USA, the film industry has become the most potent dream-machine 
and image-making industry in the world. The techniques employed to 
create Disney world parks and the like are also unsurpassed. 


¢ The possibility of actualising one’s personal desires and vision in the 
USA is universally called the ‘American Dream’. 


« America has represented a haven for the poor and oppressed masses 
from other parts of the globe. Such representation of the masses is a 
Neptunian characteristic. The symbol for this is the Statue of Liberty, 
which sits in the water (another Neptunian symbol) in New York city’s 
harbour. 


¢ Idealism is another key concept associated with Neptune. In all of 
recorded history, the American rebuilding of its defeated adversaries 
after WW II may be unique. 


* Neptune is also associated with deception and misleading informa- 
tion. The USA government's deceptive treaties with native American 
tribes over their land rights are fully documented historical facts. 


But now let's move on to the telling Local Space maps. Figure 70 is a detail of 
the LS map for Howland's proposed USA chart. It shows the Uranus line, its 
origin in Philadelphia, running across the Atlantic and right over to London, 
England. This of course is a perfect representation of the radical and rebel- 
lious relationship that the Founding Fathers had with the English monarchy 
at the time of the Revolution. 


121 


Figure 71 


123 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Figure 71 is the detail ofthe northeastern USA. Note that the Uranus line from 
Philadelphia curves upward, running exacdy through Boston harbour before 
connecting with England. To those who know the history of the events of the 
colonial uprising this is truly amazing. The most important act of American 
defiance to British rule happened in Boston harbour in what has became known 
as the Boston Tea Party. The Local Space map for an 11.00 AM birth time 
confirms the historical connection of the events in Philadelphia, Boston and 
England. Uranus issues and Uranus lines seem to play a role in Anglo-Ameri- 
can relations even today”: 


¢ Boston (via the Irish-American community) remains the centre of 
anti-British feeling in the USA to this day. 


* Americans acknowledge and appreciate the special relationship (an- 
other Uranian symbol) between their country and Great Britain. 


* One can note the testimony of British visitors to the USA, who state 
they feel 'free’ when travelling there. 


There is more. Figure 72 shows that the same Uranus line running southwest 
from Philadelphia is fewer than 35 miles from Montgomery, Alabama. It was 
here that the Union experienced another act of rebellious defiance, less than 
100 years later, when the Confederate states declared Montgomery to be their 
independent capital city; one of the acts that precipitated the US Civil War. 


J ! 
f 
tg 


; pA meee pene 


} LAS 
aN pet $ ay 
“Higw Orleans ~*~, 


a, Z ee os 
— a yf 
aS “ we 
i A 
. , 
4 ¢ w 
wy i ~ we at ey, 
i 
a pos Tk a * 
fay i 
Ry A ; Chat foe can 


124 


Sel 


‘ 4 } eee mi fe osten 
cE a Pid Uy Se terete ennneneeg cone pete ennemamamanamenn My 
} Chiro E Ye gel ; 


OfarMoinas Cha cf L die ° 
@¥liffamspert a pogo 


y 
Honaha C t , 
} | oil Ay 
@bloomingta 


OP ish 


«. 
Wdianapalis 


=, }- 


Virginia Beaalt 


ey amsty 


ebiin stn Salem ash 
ORalgicds 


Memphis 
al ithe Rock 


ay ile \ D ad 


eHon ‘ 
© Ptlarts \ 


AEN 


‘, 


\ ; \ athoteston 


sald hs 


ee eee 
5 - 
S, 


*Shremport 4 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Figure 73 is another view of the eastern USA, with everything removed ex- 
cept the LS Saturn line. Note how it almost perfectly divides what were to be- 
come the warring Northern and Southern states of the Civil War, with much 
of the line right on the physical state boundaries themselves’. 

Mars too can give us insights about US relations. See Figure 74. Mars 
itself was almost direcdy overhead (zenith position) Havana, Cuba at the mo- 
ment described by Howland's 11 AM USA chart. This obviously implies ten- 
sion there. The map also shows the LS Mars line running very close to Ha- 
vana and Managua, both locations where the USA had troops stationed in the 
past and where there are military undertones and tensions even today. 

The interested reader is urged to review the corresponding ACG map 
for the 11.00 AM chart, as shown in Figure /5. In his book Howland points 
out” significant historical correspondences, such as: 


¢ The Pluto-MC line crosses over southern Japan, aptly describing the 
atomic bombs dropped there in 1945. After the war, American influ- 
ence regenerated Japan, helping its transformation into one of the great 
industrial nations of the 20" century. 


* The Saturn-MC line near Moscow describes the USA's chilly (in- 
hibited) relations with Russia and her ‘Iron Curtain’. 


¢« The Moon-Descending line runs alongside the most seismically 
active part of the US mainland, the San Andreas fault in California. 
Howland reminds us that the Moon's connection with seismic phenom. 
ena is well known to both astrologers and seismologists. 


I can add here that Uranus-MC runs within 70 miles from Oklahoma city, OK, 
the site of a devastating bomb blast which was directed by anarchists against 
a US government building. That same Uranus-MC line is only 35 miles from 
Dallas, Texas, where US president John Kennedy was assassinated. 
Whatever one's preferred USA chart {11.00AM or not), note how useful 
Astrolocality indicators can be when working with mundane data. 


126 


Lol 


p, ainsi] 


@) 


° 


NO & f ia 


j mee " x , (eg 
A A i . f ‘ 


_ eee ‘ 
aan ere i 
“a eg foe - 
cae cee eT 
eat ; 
ae / 
= : 
es 
Dallas 1 / 
‘ fi 
s A ; 


a 4 Ve , : . 


. aye . c =, - 
Ps } 
’ ae —_s 


Bile Setiiutor 


@ 


my 


A Poe o cy Jute 


4 


; @vedatin 
Re 


£ 


te 


GZ amar 


BaDMT# SR Well 


pre 
Sik bt 


Sgt 2-0 fom 
POR 
Ye RENIN CH 


hhh 


ae ae 
® H 


y 
A 


8 
Th 


CONG TELE EAC Op LOrR uy 


& 


Sante aes 


eee iad 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


NOTES 


1. Really the chart map. Remember: the chart map is simply the chart turned about 
so that its cardinal directions line up with a map's north, south, east, and west orien- 
tation. 


2. From his important book on the Local Space technique, Planets in Locality, 1988, 
recently republished by AFA, Tempe, AZ. 


3. My own natal information tells me much more about the ‘what is' when 1 use it 
for in-close work as a geomantic compass. Experienced Feng Shui professionals Ralph 
and Lahni DeAmicis (USA) confirm this. Addressing this issue in e-mail correspond- 
ence to me, they state this: 

"When a person is living far from their birth place we still use the natal Local 
Space information. We believe that their electromagnetic patterning is still imprinted 
in the same way, and it paints the environment in the same pattern generally. There 
is probably some drift for a person who is recently relocated because the way their 
field is interacting with the earth's planetary field is resetting, and there is some re- 
sulting fuzziness. But after enough lunations the pattern reasserts itself 


4. My experience has confirmed that the planetary effects work just as strongly whether 
we move toward or away from the planet's zenith location. An early case history clari- 
fied this for me. A man was selected and accepted a job editing an astrological/occult 
magazine here in the UK. To take up the position, he had to move northwest of his 
current location, a journey which was exacdy on his conjoined Jupiter-Uranus Local 
Space lines to the new city. Astrologers will note that these planetary energies would 
perfecdy fit his new duties - and dare 1 suggest that they might be the reason he was 
hired over other candidates with less fortunate directional lines? By happily moving 
north-westward, he was travelling away from the zenith planetary positions of Jupiter 
and Uranus over the earth, but he was moving on their lines to his new career. 


5. The Local Horizon Chart in the Solar Maps computer program (Astrolabe & Com- 
puter Technologies, Ltd.) will display the completed lines. Thanks again to those in- 
volved for including this useful tool. 


6. Note that for both laser and ink printers today, transparency masters can be pur- 
chased so that a transparent copy of your Local Space chart (or chart map) can be ob- 
tained direcdy from your computer (that's the way 1 do it) without having to go to a 
photocopy shop to get one made. 


7. Sunrise and sunset positions will be best aligned to a true east and west near equi- 
nox times of the year. 


8. Angel Thompson can be reached at: 1809 Washington Way, Venice, California 
90291, USA. Phone: (310) 821-2527. E-mail: ForCntnuum@aol.com. 


9. Steve Cozzi has been studying and teaching astrology for over 30 years. He has 
been active in Local Space astrology from the early days of 1979, when Michael 


129 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


Erlewine first developed it. Steve is credited with being the inventor of the West's first 
geomantic compass. 


10. Ralph and Lahni DeAmicis can be reached at Space & Time Designing, Inc, 321 
Avon St., Philadelphia, PA. 19116, USA. E-mail: Jupiter@comcat.com. Their web site 
at http:// www.spaceandtime.com has a complete listing of the services they offer Their 
next book will be published soon under the tide Feng Shui and The Tango in Twelve Easy 
Lessons. 


11. Planets in Locality, see the sub chapter and Table 6, both titled "Planetary Lines In 
The Community". 


12. Today's recent trend of teleworking from home means that work lines outside the 
home are less relevant than they used to be. 


13. Planets in Locality, 


14. We can ponder what comes first: the move, which gives us new lines in a city and 
therefore different experiences, or a shift in oneself, which prompts the move and 
brings the new experiences. A third possibility is that everything unfolds together: the 
imperative or desire to move, the new lines and the corresponding experiences. This 
third possibility is not really a causal process but rather a 'wholeness' according to 
which everything happens at once as synchronous inner and outer events. 


15. Manchester's data: 29 March 1853, 10 30am, LMT. The data was provided by 
Gary Parkinson, Chairman of the Manchester Astrology group. Gary states that there 
are several possible charts but this one has worked well and has been adopted by him. 
Gary can be reached by e-mail at gary.parkinson@mecrl.poptel.org uk 


16. Planets in Locality. 


IZ Also referred to as the 'sensible' or physical horizon, since we might actually be 
able to observe its boundary. 


18. Page 16, Astrophysical Directions. 


19. This feature is available in the Win*Maps module of WinStar (for Windows) and 
AstroMaps Hi Res (for DOS), both programs from Matrix Software. 


20. See The Living Stars, by Eric Morse, Amethyst Books, 1988. Interested readers 
may want to review the work on star mythology by astrologer Diana K. Rosenberg, 
identified by Rob Hand as the foremost authority on fixed stars. Her Web site is: http:/ 
/pwl.netcom.com/~ye stars/ 

1 have found Anne Wright's work very helpful as well. Her Web site is a great 
resource: http://www.winshop.com.au/annew/ 


21. Mardyks is very active. He is the director of the Star School of Sedona, which offers 
e-mail correspondence courses. He is the author of Sedona Starseed, A Galactic Initia- 


130 


LOCAL SPACE STUDIES 


tion and he also offers personal reports, a newsletter and conferences in the USA, all 
with this galactic perspective. His web site is recommended: http://www.geocities.com/ 
area51/nebula/9172/ He can be reached at: Raymond Mardyks, PO box 2841, Sedona, 
AZ 86339, USA. 


22. See his article, Star temples in the Stones: Sedona Decoded, available from his 
web site: http://www.geocities.com/area51/nebula/9172/sedonal.html 


23. For very interesting information about Lyra, see this page on Raymond's Web 
site: http://www.geocities.com/area5 1/nebula/9172/mes.html 


24. Note in Figure 61 that her chart has 6 planets in the 10th and Uth houses. This 
tight bunching of planets yields an ACG map with similarly bunched lines. This leaves 
large regions of the globe not covered by ACG lines. 


25. Certified in ACG by Jim Lewis in 1986, David is the most experienced locational 
practitioner in Europe today. He can be reached at Nabburgerstr. 3/111, 81737 Mu- 
nich, Germany. E-mail: astrowelt@aol.com 


26. This, in turn, means that Leicester would be near the Saturn-IC line on her ACG 
map, a topic covered thoroughly in David's book, Where in the World with 
Astro *Carto *Graphy. 


27. Poz Publications (1998), PO Box 3104, Brighton BN1 5SP, UK. With over 500 
charts, Howland's book is a feast of American charts and historical information. Rec- 
ommended. Ron can be reached at the Poz Publications PO Box address above. 


28. See his article "The Late Mutables, 1066, and the US Chart", NCGR Journal, Fall 
1997, 


29. An entire book has been written proposing Neptune's significance in America's 
history; see The Sign of the Times, by Stan Barker. Llewellyn Publications, 1986. 


30. Interested readers will note that the LS Uranus line continues eastward from 
London near to Paris (the French supported the US in its War of Independence), then 
it runs on between Jerusalem and Baghdad, two cities with a different 'special rela- 
tionship' with the US to this very day. 


31. Timothy Leary and revisionist historians have postulated that the real cause of 
America's Civil War was not the issue of slavery but the conflicting reality viewpoints 
of the industrial (the North) vs. the agricultural (the South) society. Looking at the core 
issue of the war in this light also makes the Saturn line meaningful because it truly 
separates the industrial and agricultural sections of the country. Note that Saturn runs 
along the very southern (bottom) boundaries of the industrial states of (west to east: 
Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, separating them from the more rural and 
agricultural states below them. 


32. See his book A Chronology of American Charts, Poz Publications (1998), pages xiv- 
xviii. 


131 


CHAPTER FIVE 


Geodetics: the Geodetic world map; the Geodetic chart: what it is and 
what it tells us 


GEODETICS: THE GEODETIC WORLD MAP 


Geodetic mapping is a result of the yearning of astrologers over the centuries 
to associate earth locations with the qualities of the zodiacal signs. The signs 
are so to speak 'taken’ from the heavens and wrapped around the earth. This 
gives us an earth horoscope of communal influences and it may even corre- 
late with the rise of the globe's varied cultures. 

An early attempt at this that survives was by Claudius Ptolemy in the first 
to second centuries AD and published in his work, the Zérabiblos.! The sys- 
tem I will draw from here - and the one most used today — is usually attrib- 
uted to the noted astrologer Sepharial (Dr. Walter Gorn-Old, 1864-1929).? 

Geodetic practitioners believe that this technique yields valuable infor- 
mation in areas of mundane application such as political upheavals, wars, 
earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, storms, and so on. Geodetic charts are 
also used by contemporary astrologers as a relocation tool and as a starting 
point if no event time is available. In this chapter I shall introduce an exten- 
sion of its potential, the Resonant chart. 


Creating the geodetic map 

Taking a global perspective, we place the zodiac upon the earth's equator, with 
the starting point of 0 degrees Aries fixed (anchored) at the Greenwich merid- 
ian of 0 longitude. As we move eastward, every degree of zodiacal longitude 
equates to a degree of terrestrial longitude. See Figure 76°. This divides the 
globe into twelve equal 'slices', with the meridians from 0 to 30 degrees of 
terrestrial longitude east of Greenwich defining an Aries influence upon the 
Earth, the next 30 degrees defining a Taurus influence and so on through the 
zodiac and around the 360 degrees of the globe. This earth division can be 
seen more clearly on the next diagram, Figure 77. Here we have a flat earth 
map with the defining meridians drawn from top to bottom, north to south. 
This creates the possibility of identifying 360 individual geodetic meridians, 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


Figure 76 


each in effect a midheaven for the location underneath it. We then view the 
map with the following in mind: each area of earth between the defining meridians 
has or reflects the energy and characteristics of the sign superimposed on it. It's impor- 
tant at this point to spend a few moments with this map to test this hypoth- 
esis. Let me take you through a few points, I expect you will soon be able to 
add your own: 


° Since I] lived in Turkey, the first thing that catches my eye is that the 
zero Taurus line (30 degrees east of Greenwich) defines the start of the Taurus 
mountains there! 


. We note that the sign of Aries covers much of central Europe and a large 
part of Africa. Aries is often associated with war and, certainly, militant acts. 
Though, unfortunately, war can be found around the entire globe, it seems that 
an unusually high proportion of global conflicts originate in this area. Of course 
in the 20th century we had two world wars centred there. Also, if we consider 
military campaigns that had the express aim of world conquest, we find Nazi 
Germany in this band, as well as the home base of the Roman legions and even 
of the Macedonian conqueror Alexander the Great‘.Currently for Africa we 
can note that Rwanda (with its mass killings) is just inside the Aries band, as 
are violent regions of Angola and Nigeria. And let us not forget the turbulent 


134 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


ieee 


ip 


ee 


balan 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


and angry Balkan region in south-east Europe which has been a flash point 
for violence throughout history, called by historians of our era, 'a volatile eth- 
nic powder keg’. This is certainly apt for a region with a geodetic signature of 
Aries midheaven (and we shall soon see, of Leo rising). 


¢ Aries is also associated with initiative. Four of the major industrialised na- 
tions in the G7 are found in this band, as well as many of the colonising na- 
tions. 


¢ Now let's shift attention to the USA. Note that the eastern third of the coun- 
try is covered by Capricorn meridians, which represent government and the 
establishment The middle of the USA through most of the west is imbued with 
Sagittarian energy (meridians), appropriately reflecting the themes of inde- 
pendence (don't fence me in), large ranches and farms, cattle and horses (large 
animals) and cowboys on the move! And the most western bit of California is 
covered with Scorpio. Could this be the reason for the proliferation of thera- 
pists there? 


The Geodetic Earth map - Earth Signatures 

But there is more, much more. In the maps above we have defined the geo- 
detic midheaven degrees around the world. If we also consider the latitude of 

a specific location, then by using a table of houses (or even better, computer 
programs that calculate geodetic charts*), we can come to see that geodetically, 
every earth location has a specific rising sign along with its midheaven sign, and this 
combination is its geodetic signature. This signature is unchanging and unique for every 
specific earth location. 

With this in mind, let us now review the full earth geodetic map shown 
in Figure 78. It is hand drawn. I constructed it by calculating many different 
individual geodetic charts, getting the approximate ascendant bands by trial 
and error®. In a way it is analogous to a world ACG map. However, here we 
are looking at signs rather than planets and fixed, unchanging earthly signa- 
tures. Note the curved bands representing regions that share a common rising 
sign. From it we get the overview ofall the earth's geodetic signatures for their 
rising and midheaven signs. 

Later in this chapter we'll look at specific geodetic charts for pinpointed 
locations, but for now let's take some general examples direcdy from this map 
to make things clearer. Remember, the areas between the vertical lines define 
midheavens by sign and the areas within the curved bands show us rising 
(ascending) signs for the location in question: 


* Look at the Capricorn (on the midheaven) ruled east coast of the USA. 


Again we note a significant division of geodetic ascendant or rising signs de- 
pending on location. Going north and east from Delaware — including Wash- 


136 


Ze 


8 amsty 


36 ALL NIE \ Bek wl AAMAS 
is TE ate erin Oey, |Z 
oft ye \ SAI IAS LA 
Jai ANGE RE RT | 
36 PEAT A | NGPA LE cf iTS 7 
wai Z7| | ve\ | \| NN US FN 
eee SN | |: 7, 


66 
* A wie he Se Oe 
et] NOK AW 184 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


ington, DC, Philadelphia, New York City and Boston - we would have Tau- 
rus rising. What might this mean? Well, it could indicate that the wealth of the 
country would really be controlled or accumulated from there. This group of 
cities forming what has been called a ‘megalopolis’ may be the real power and 
cultural base of the nation. 


¢ Below the region of Taurus rising, extending westward to New Orleans, 
we find an Aries geodetic ascendant. This area includes turbulent Miami as 
well as two countries where the USA has had troops in the past, Cuba and 
Nicaragua. From the meridian through New Orleans to the west we can see a 
Pisces ascendant. Associated with water, this area includes most of the Missis- 
sippi as well as the Missouri, Arkansas and Red rivers. Further west from there 
we find Aquarius ascending. This may describe the mystique of individualism 
for which states like Montana, Wyoming and Colorado are noted. California 
too is under Aquarius rising. Should we be surprised at this, considering the 
famous variety of life-styles found there? 


* Notice that Japan, the land of the rising Sun, has a Sun-ruled, Leo geodetic 
midheaven. Even today it is considered a closed society, with its real social 
dynamic hidden from the view of foreigners. This speaks of a strong correla- 
tion with its secretive Scorpio geodetic ascendant. Japan, therefore, has a Leo 
midheaven, Scorpio rising geodetic signature. 


* Two dangerous armies intending destruction and world conquest (the Nazis 
and Alexander's Macedonians) originated in a region with geodetic Aries on 
the midheaven, and now you can see that their geodetic signature has fiery 
Leo rising as well (as noted above, the Balkan countries have this signature 
too). France, Britain, Portugal and Spain have home-loving geodetic Cancer 
rising. Perhaps this explains their different approach to expansion: colonising 
and integrating outlying regions, turning them into models of their own cul- 
ture. Rome (and therefore the Roman legions) is very close to Leo rising but 
just inside the Cancer rising band, with a geodetic ascendant of 29 degrees 
Cancer’. Perhaps this explains the somewhat Cancer-Leo dual nature of their 
world conquest, colonising some places according to a Roman model but 
ruthlessly suppressing and destroying almost everywhere else. Sicily, by the 
way, is just inside the Cancer rising band. Perhaps this helps explain the na- 
ture of their crime syndicates, organised as ‘families’. 


Before launching into a discussion and examples of geodetic charts, a few more 
points should be clarified: 


* Some astrologers have questioned the validity of the Greenwich meridian 
as the 0 degree Aries starting point for the world map and the subsequent cal- 


138 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


culations deduced from it. The so-called 'pyramid chart’, for example, shifts 
the starting point from the Greenwich meridian to the longitude of the Great 
Pyramid in Egypt, 31 degrees, 9 minutes east. In other words, that earth lon- 
gitude would become 0 degrees Aries on the geodetic world map. My expe- 
rience supports that the Greenwich meridian does work best and I believe it 
can be justified by its world-wide acceptance as a special location on earth 
maps*. I therefore use it exclusively in the examples that follow. 


* Other significant Earth longitudes for a geodetic starting point have been 
proposed, but with no strong proof of their effectiveness to my knowledge. 
Some have suggested that superimposing the Zodiac on the Earth's equator 
in a westerly direction would work just as well. I can't substantiate this proce- 
dure, though it would be similar to the technique of converse transits or 
progressions found effective in usual astrology. 


* Another system of interest was developed by the Canadian astrologer L.E. 
Johndro. It may be the most personal of the geodetic charts, since its calcula- 
tion includes the position of the Sun. Though there is some historical evidence 
that Johndro himself dropped his system for the Greenwich chart for much of 
his career’, no matter, because his work was invaluable in shifting the focus of 
geodetics away from earth calamities and towards use with personal charts. A 
really important insight gained from his work is that we can use a location's 
geodetic chart in the absence of timed data! Examples of this will follow later 
in the chapter. 


* Astrologer Mare Penfield proposes what he calls a ‘Modified’ Johndro 
Chart. He finds it better for personal charts than both the Sepharial (Green- 
wich) and Pyramid methods!®. Marc too, like Johndro, points us to the effec- 
tive use of geodetics in our personal lives and as a great solution when you 
don't have a time of birth. 


THE GEODETIC CHART: WHAT IS IT AND 
WHAT IT TELLS US 


What it is 

The geodetic chart is a mix of information from two zodiacs, the one in the 
heavens and one wrapped around the earth. First: for a given location the 
geodetic chart utilises the specific earth signature of geodetic midheaven and 
rising sign (as well as intermediate house cusps) defining the outer chart wheel 
itself. Second: inside these geodetic parameters we place the planets accord- 
ing to their positions in the sky's zodiac for our natal or other event data. 


139 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


What it tells us 
Fundamentally the geodetic chart tells us what the earth does to us at a given 
location. It’s a measure of how we fit into the culture there. I see it as an indi- 
cator of how we resonate with the spirit of place and will use that word to de- 
fine a new possibility, the Resonant Chart. 

As this concept of mixing information from earth and sky may be quite 
strange to us, let's now create some geodetic charts to see if they add meaning 
to my change of earth location from St Louis to Scodand: 


1. First we should review my natal chart again, calculated in the usual 
way according to a combination of parameters of both time and place. See 
Figure 79. Note the ascendant-descendant axis is 18+ degrees of Scorpio and 
Taurus and that the MCTC axis falls at 28+ degrees of Leo and Aquarius, re- 
spectively. The intermediate house cusps are determined by a function of the 
MC and my birth latitude at St Louis. 


2. Now we will review my geodetic (birth) chart for the same location. 
See Figure 80. The first thing to note is that there has been a significant shift- 
ing of the ascendant-descendant and MC-IC axes, along with the intermedi- 
ate house cusps. In late degrees geodetically, I now have a Pisces-Virgo ascend- 
ant-descendant axis with Sagittarius and Gemini defining the MC and IC. Now 
this is important: since these are geodetic parameters, that is, the unique geo- 
detic signature of St Louis, everyone ever born there would have the same outer 
wheel or defining axes. 

The next thing to note is that the planets inside the wheel are in exacdy 
the same degrees as found in my natal chart (Figure 79). Their positions in the 
geodetic wheel have simply moved or shifted relative to the new alignment of 
geodetic ascendant and midheaven degrees. (Note that my 14+ degree Virgo 
Sun has shifted from the 10" house to the geodetic 6" house.) 

What additional information might I gain from this? A review of the 
geodetic chart shows that my Mercury-Saturn opposition (5%-11" houses in my 
natal chart) has been shifted to a prominent position of angularity, very close 
to the ascendant-descendant axis. This means that an important factor of my 
incarnation or embodiment at that spot on the globe, or what 'stuck’ me there 
rather than somewhere else, is represented by those planets in that configura- 
tion! Other indicators can be seen from that chart as well. Perhaps the North 
Node-Mars conjunction, now in the 9* house for example, augers that I would 
be restless there and need to reach out to new cultures, perhaps by being 
pushed out of the nest to other world locations. 


3. Let's continue with this theme and look at my geodetic chart for Scot- 
land. I am often asked how I ended up living in Scotland. In truth I can only 
shrug my shoulders and say that events brought me here. Surely, I found vo- 


140 


“~~~ 28°R 30° ~ 
“ 8) ae 
11s ~~ 16°55 
1B YO ? ¢~Na2" 
ORS qget4? 09% 90 OS 
r ; a 27. 1p i R S 7 Vi 
07 Te \ 3388 0532, ogg? 5 \ 45° 
a: 1 oats —— 00° , 
(22°) ~ " & os a ee eee 
ie 8 0" 
: 57 . 4 
/ “y Martin Davis x : 
118° [12/ Sept 07,1937 \ 74 ee 
| be Saint Louis, MO yd 1 ; 
eae ag 10:58:00 AM CST leas —13 
138° \4\-ZONE:+06:00/g:: 343° Wj 38" 
RK. DS a90W12'00" ae : 
pg eg oS S8N3TONT / 
ee 15°" 36° eg , .. f 
MOC ne | SL yor 
ee) alates 77 
39° i on 22° 
AT? h 
. 16° ory 
ag be 
ir 
~~ 28°30 
Figure 79 
_o7 ada 29° ag’ Pesan: 
yg tt aT 08” 
HBS SF a 23" 
15° 
\ 47° 09° 
, WS ! oh wa ~\ N 
{aT \ 33° 38a, \o8r 
Sia \ Re Re \ 
re 22°/ 8 oe 10. 9 wo \38" 
26°". pn ON OS . Pa \ 
7 at ee. =e \e7 >i 
: “-y  Geodetic Chart 4, set” 
(29° 112° Sept 07, 1937 \7) \age 
| i ij Saint Louis, MO ane tp 
1% be ogePor |. —«-10:58:00 AM CST (|e 2a tar 
| 40° \ 4\ ZONE: +06:00 /6) 33° age yy 140", 
yA 090W1 1'00" i} 38p.. 
“ap ae 38n3700" 14 & 
4 : ae” S! 5. j $ 
al aan we ane 
\06° rr. y— 3 | 42 05 _/ 47 
VBS yw Ser) Nae et a of 
‘ 338° ‘ST he & o9° /22° 
si Bt - 2° Q F 
/ 09° Is gy - 
oe fa v poe . : 
06°y & pee 
SS ZB ee BB 
Si 29° II 49° pee 


Figure 80 


32" le ee . 
2 “ig Ro: - 08% 5 
05° wa 04° 
Vi 18 On, 
eS oe! 
55'/ k 25° IL 32" q aae6 
29 Z 00° I 57" \ Fe eee ; “te 
o = S 54' Se a Z i 
0 . Os Lek 10 ey, < 37 : 
° ? WwW a .8 \. 
ae haw 
: ae Geodetic Chart aarncr 
‘28°! 12/ Sept 07, 1937 \7\ er 
3 : ra i Duns,SCOT bea oe | 
12 Oo ge Gar | «= (10:58:00AMCST a NB | 
52'\ va ZONE: +06:00 or 52" | 
22 OS 002W20'00" poy RBS gee 
os \™ ssNa7O0" po 17° y | 
48°\_. — 
ay 4s 
37°\ ee) 


aa ee 27°Tp 40° wie gee os 


Figure 81 


cational opportunities in Great Britain (first in Yorkshire and then in Scotland), 
which can be explained in part by the fact that my relocated chart for most of 
northern Britain has Jupiter rising". But this doesn't explain the heart pull I 
felt to follow opportunities out of my home country. In fact I seemed to reso- 
nate with the land here as soon as I arrived. With this in mind, let's look at 
Figure 81, which is my geodetic chart for Duns, Scotland (a small town close 
to where I reside). 

Please keep in mind that the ascendant, midheaven and house cusps are 
the earth's signature for Duns, and everyone born or residing there would have 
them. What is specific to me however, is that my natal planets are placed in- 
side this wheel, in their usual zodiacal degrees but now orientated to Duns’ 
geodetic signature. 

Looking at Figure 81, we can see that the Mercury-Saturn opposition is 
once again brought to the chart angles, but this time geodetic power points of 
MC and IC. I have moved to another global location that activates those plan- 
ets in angularity! Here too, once again, they are empowered and activated, now 
by the 'spirit' of this place. 

Also it is noteworthy that intense and powerful Pluto is all but exacdy 
rising on this chart. What might this mean in terms of my experience? We can 
assess this by using conventional astrological correspondences, this time from 


142 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


the perspective of communal and cultural inputs, or what I see and refer to as 
one’s resonance: 


Mercury on the IC: Here, I was able to create an international soft- 
ware sales business from my home. It’s as if the earth itself and espe- 
cially the local culture support this and enable it to grow and flourish, 
sustained by friendly neighbours as well as efficient local services. Beam 
me down to Duns, Scottie! 


Saturn on the MC: Here in Great Britain I became an authority on 
computer-related astrological matters and astrolocality astrology. My or- 
ganisational abilities are appreciated. Growth in my business as well as 
my reputation in the field of astrolocality itself has come at a slow and 
steady pace, only unfolding as my steadiness of focus and understand- 
ing merit. 


Pluto on the ascendant: As the only American within miles, I am no- 
ticed, whether I find this comfortable or not. I am listened to by the 
community, and this brings the responsibility of having to be earnest 
in my intentions. I believe I feel the pulse of life here both in the com- 
munity and from the lovely natural surroundings. 


Thus we can see how my geodetic chart for Duns, with its angular Mercury- 
Saturn opposition, adds a valuable piece to the puzzle of why I specifically 
settled or 'stuck’ myself here. Not the only piece of the puzzle for sure, but a 
valuable one nevertheless. 


Further Examples of Geodetic Charts 


1. Krishnamurti finds his favourite place on Earth; the Resonant Chart 
defined 

It's valuable to find a person who unequivocally states he/she has found their 
favourite place on earth. This affords an opportunity to correlate this earth 
location with astrolocality tools, seeing if any pick it out as a special place for 
the individual. The life of teacher and philosopher Jeddu Krishnamurti affords 
us this opportunity. 

Krishnamurti setded in Ojai, California in the later years of his life and 
he declared that it was his true home on earth. Of course California and Ojai 
in particular are beautiful, with a fine climate and proximity to appreciative 
students, but Krishnamurti’s love of this place seemed to go even beyond all 
that. In his diaries and lectures he talked about the beautiful quality of the earth 
there for him personally, which seemed to be like nowhere else'”. So let's look 
at this situation in terms of Astrolocality techniques: 


143 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


¢ Krishnamurti’s relocated chart for Ojai would show Saturn near to 
the IC; therefore his ACG map would show Saturn on the IC as well. 
Though this grounds him there and shows the location is significant, it 
hardly leads to us expect it to be his favourite site. Jim Lewis, for ex- 
ample, says about a Saturn on the IC location, “One of the least desir- 
able places... and while you are able to center yourself, it is only with 
bitterness and a sense of all you have missed in life”™ 


¢ His Local Space chart for Ojai would tell us much about his finding 
happiness there. It brings (empowers) his Venus and Jupiter to the east, 
opposed by his Moon in the west, adding beauty, bounty and compan- 
ionship to the potentially barren Saturn in the north. 


* Can geodetics add to our evaluation? Might it show us a resonance 
with his birth potential there? I believe it does. Figure 82 is his natal 
chart. Note his rising sign at 15 degrees of Aquarius and his midheaven 
in late Scorpio. Holding that information in mind, let us now look at 
Figure 83. Here we have his geodetic (earth) chart for Ojai. Note that 


geodetically the ascendant of 14 degrees Aquarius is aligned or resonates 
Peo 


ST is 
ao ge 25 


AWN a Ta 22 
wen ro a pen 
108 BR eas 
y D> | tT oe 
a “pe | ba 
/30/ 2 48° 9 & 


a: SOS ANE 


4 />Y° Jeddu Krishnamurti \ 


45° [12; May 12, 1895 \7 

{eet pe} Madanapaile, INDIA 

Si ama || 12:18:00. AM Z08 ee 
35": ZONE: -05:21 isi 


078E30'00" ge ot 


\ ‘ s 13N33°007 
\ os 
—— 


ea . / 
/ 
oe ss 
rg Oca 
a _ 248 25" 


Figure 82 


(| eee Bn .. 28° 
700" . 28°g 
22° 8 ho. 24 
D> 7° oe 
if m 02 
5 ee | | an 
* 38° 2 48° 39: & .20° 
VS 12 ee Sadls 34 02° N 
/ 15° X10 1 9 sa UIE 
a \e7 oe N R 19° 
3 Ie NB ae 
: 7! Geodetic Chart 
‘gigs (12: May 12, 1895 \7 144°: 
ae | oes Ojai,CA oo 
BR rm F400 AM Z05 
123° \44 ZONE: -05:24 /6 123° 
VS 119W15'00" 
Roe TS 34N27'00" 
«8 2 5 
a”? eae: 48". 
20° 3 4 REF sae 38° 
hee ‘ qs 14 es 
en Tyee cae 
14 4752" 4604 mae ae 15 
Bs I ry 
28 Sees 20°28° 1014 Ve 00 
wf ° Ser 6 y Be . 
aaury. ene ae Ses 
(OOP 4A 
Figure 83 


to his natal ascendant and that although the geodetic midheaven is 0 
degrees Sagittarius, it is only about 5 degrees different from his natal 
placement. In other words, here in Ojai, Krishnamurti's geodetic chart 
resonates, practically duplicating his natal chart. The earth in Ojai, 
California is providing him with a vibratory input, a spirit of place, that 
is similar to the one he received at birth in India. No wonder he felt so 
at home there. From this point on we can define resonant charts as 
geodetic charts (at one location) that match the angles of regular natal 
or event charts at another location (or vice versa). 


Fun for readers 

Using the geodetic world map of Figure 78, find your own resonant world lo- 
cations! These will be places where the geodetic chart angles (approximately) 
match those of your natal chart. The exact angular separation between your 
natal ascendant and MC can only be duplicated at an equivalent latitude, so 
I suggest you look for a similar ascendant first and let the MC be adjusted. 
Here's an example: I'm looking for a resonant location for myself (hopefully 
in a warm climate). I notice that western Australia is covered with Scorpio 
rising, my natal rising sign. A good start. A bit of Australia is also under the 
geodetic midheaven of Leo (my natal midheaven sign). I notice that in the north 


145 


= 
if 20° < 
ie a 
oe “~~ Geodetic Chat N57 
49°) 12/ Sep 07, 1937 74 a 
; i wot 3 Darwin,Australia \ at ie | 
ite “"—{ 10:58:00 AMCST TT goa 
47" 4h ZONE: +06:00 gi 13° | 47"! 
Be ok Rise 130E50'00" ae 
" g 09°” 38! : a 12528'00" 
op 8. 4s: M2 Se i 
48° ae” S37 6 
< mn 
‘i ; 
20°\. — 
; 17° \ 
14° >t 
” 39' TSS. _eee 
~ 10° = 50° 


Figure 84 


the city of Darwin may meet my requirements. Using my computer program 
to verify this, ] run Darwin's geodetic chart. See Figure 84, my geodetic chart 
for Darwin Australia. Lo and behold it looks a lot like my natal one. Perhaps 
even better. The ascendant there is close, 19+ Scorpio degrees rather than 18+, 
but the midheaven has moved backwards in Leo to only 10+ degrees, now 
conjoining my natal Venus. Perhaps the locals would beg me to be a counsel- 
ling astrologer there or I would be voted the sexiest over-60 in northern Aus- 
tralia! 


2. Will the real USA chart please stand up? Geodetics and the Reso- 
nant Chart to the rescue. 
It is widely known that there is disagreement among astrologers as to the ‘best’ 
birth chart for the USA. Most, but not all, choose July 4* 1776 as the birth day. 
Though I have pointed to the 11.00 AM chart from R. Howland's research and 
the astrolocality considerations, there are other proposed times and therefore 
charts for that day that vary considerably. With this diversity in mind, perhaps 
we can consider the USA chart as untimed for the moment and bring the 
geodetic technique into play. Figure 85 is the geodetic Chart for the USA using 
Philadelphia's earth signature near to a midday time (to get mean planetary 
positions). 

It is striking to note that the transiting Sun that day was within one de- 


146 


Vay ee ad 12" 
y 27° . ~\ 
y a fe > % sl W : / 

/ 58° s ae ag: \ 29° 

Ce 27 jane alles 
/A7° F090 | 9 > (NAB 
! / : be aa NN ee f 4 \ 

ae SY Geodetic Chart \ 

j f Jul 04, 1776 : loge 
126°) § 20°"7 gg: hai Philadelphia, PA W : ee F 
| . 41:00:00 AM LMT ae aa ae = i 
| 53" 1 ZONE: +00:00 6/ 48° Bago i 
ae \ 075wo9"'00" Fi 14 bh ! 
rane \. 39N57°00" 25' pod 
\ ‘ ' ae 2 ona 5 1p y / 

a\ i gs KS a4 58° / 

& < ose tz, SLs ‘ ey / 
48° ATE 1 34 17° 

¥ 21° va Pies 05 es Q K e; a 

Sy ¢ {825° 430: 24° oe Meee med 

2 8 8 ge 

Tet 0) & 428 
Oe eee 
Figure 85 


gree of exact conjunction with the foundation of the chart, the Cancer geodetic 
Ic". What might that mean? This perfect symbolism shows that the Found- 
ing Fathers would in fact be supported by the earth (the spirit of the place) and 
the prevailing culture in establishing their nation. Certainly the issues of their 
origins and family roots would be paramount to them, as would a possibly 
hidden but strong 'me first’ attitude. We can also note that the chart angles 
themselves are all in the active cardinal signs, with martial Aries rising and 
powerful and effective Capricorn representing the face of the government it- 
self. Students of Mundane astrology will note that Pluto in the 10" house adds 
much power to the activities of the government and that Uranus and Mars in 
the second house give some indication of the diverse nature and hard-driving 
effort for this nation to gain wealth. There are other observations that can be 
made; at the time of writing Neptune is transiting through the chart’s 10“house, 
which I'll leave to the reader to ponder. The point I am making is that in the 
absence of a truly known birth time, the geodetic chart makes a good starting point that 
can effectively be employed in astrological investigations. 

Now let us look at the transiting chart for that day in 1776 that would have 
resonated or have been equivalent with the geodetic one. It would match the 
angles of the geodetic chart. This is a reversal of approach compared with 
Krishnamurti example above. There we started with the natal and moved to 
the geodetic chart. Here we are starting with the geodetic and checking out 


147 


, Y  Transiting USA oe ; : 
0 '42/ Jul 04, 1776 V7 ech 
a is 20°Tos f | Philadelphia,PA 26°| 
— 00:13:24 AM LMT 
ZONE: +00:00 
075W09'00" 
39N57'00" 


33" \ LAT / 
30 3 


ee age 


on 14S 5 


et 


Figure 86 


the matching transiting chart. No matter, as the issue is their equivalence or 
resonance, This transiting chart is shown in Figure 86. Here we see that just 
some minutes past midnight (at the start of July 4*) the transiting chart angles 
matched those of the geodetic chart. This might suggest that the Founding 
Fathers completed their work that night, past midnight, although there appears 
to be no historical evidence to support or refute it They, of course, reconvened 
later the same day to recommend approval of the Declaration. 


3. New Russia resonates, but what does it mean? 
In the Book of World Horoscopes® Campion points out that the lowering of the 
Soviet and the raising of the Russian flag over the Kremlin represented the 
‘supreme and final symbolic’ moment for the transfer of power to Russia. The 
time for this event has therefore been used as the birth moment for new Rus- 
sia'°. A comparative review of both the transiting chart for new Russia and the 
corresponding geodetic chart (for Moscow) shows an incredible matching or 
resonance between the two. Figure 87 is a chart for the birth moment of new 
Russia. Note the 24-degree Leo ascendant and 8-degree Taurus midheaven. 
Now let us look at Figure 88, Moscow's geodetic chart. The ascendant and 
midheaven are almost identical - in perfect resonance - with the birth chart! 
What might this mean? We can hypothesise that to survive, Russia will 
continue to be very sensitive to its own cultural needs and communal stand- 


148 


oo ee, 


Lee 0888 a 


a , 


38 ~ 138% 
00°...” ; = : _ 
v *S 
a! 7 09" e 18° i: . 
ee §2" om 
20°97 aa eN 
r a 44 ~~. 29” et ‘i : 
o8° oe eo 
Ray ey New Russia “N\ \ 4 
24°/ (12/ Dec 25, 1991 \7\ \2ae | 
Q} ; Moscow,Russia \ \ woul 
- 7 ‘(05:38:00 PMGMT fe 
(07° Sage ZONE: +00:00 /ej ov" 
LN oss \1\ 037E35'00" ae -_ 
D> oe" 3 5 oe 1 { i 
’ a 0" : 
ee ee | aa ; 
E ze Ww i 
\18°\ oS 
SX 
. 46° 5 
Ase ; “<a 
acs) ¢ 800 
“~ oseMats 
oO 
Figure 87 
qT «(0773 35 ~ 
“e231 
00° _~ 02". 
“9 Ne Se 
, 574 oN ~ 18°" 
jeu? oe ee 
QR°/ > 52. aa 
28°/ ~~. “< 10 1.9 


08° me ; 
Rar i ~~ Geodetic Chat. 


a Pe : ea 
23°! 12/ Dec 25, 1991 7 ‘oge} 
a | dem Moscow,Russia : are 
a ier cae 05:38:00 PMGMT ; [| | 1™ | 
44" wig oh ZONE: +00:00 (6) 144° 
Dp 3-0 TL 037E35°00" ae aa 
1p nae 55N45'00" OK 10% 
4 ae at 2 Ooh 
. hs ne : R / 
18°° i 7 57" 
‘Ip < \ oe, ae WY 
18°, / pgsse7t AVS oo: ge /28°/ 
' mm wee : Z 
pant? © y 
13° ~L ro ® 23° 
a. e@ 9 BS 3 
~, : 02" . — 00° 
Poe, _97°"M, 35" See 


Figure 88 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


ards and, reinforced by this resonance, have to live according to its own models, 
its own signature (not necessarily those of the West). More important, we can 
see that time of day in Moscow as an opening where the spirit of the earth best 
matches activities that are culturally relevant and communal in nature. 


4. The attack on Pearl Harbor 

Called by President Roosevelt 'a date which will live in infamy’, the attack on 
Pearl Harbor by theJapanese air force on 7 December, 1941, brought the 
United States into World War II. The attack united the American nation be- 
hind the President and ended its isolationist sentiments. Various times have 
been recorded for elements of the Japanese operation and the moments of the 
attack itself. Naval records record 7:53 am local time as the moment the first 
bombs fell on Hickam Air Force base, with bombs and torpedoes falling on 
ships some minutes later. Using the time of the first bombs, let's look at the 
charts for that moment and at the corresponding geodetic chart itself. Figure 
89 is the chart of the moment. Note that it has Capricorn rising (with Saturn 
conjoining Uranus, the planet of surprises) and Libra on the midheaven (with 
Venus opposing Pluto and the Moon, possible violent, emotional upheaval). 
A prominent feature is transiting Mars exactly on the IC. What a great sym- 
bolism for an attack on one’s home! Figure 90 is the equivalent geodetic chart 


15° 11° 


Pearl Harbor Attack 


Dec 07, 1941 7} iAae 
Hickam Air Base \ \ ae 
Ht 
07:53:00 AMHST.— |" 
ZONE: +10:30 6: Sa 
4157W54'00" Ro. 
2inz000° BT Mage 
2 5 ~~ 4 
cy 
3 pax ee 39° 
ve G2 fu 
/ 06 ba \ 23 »? /07 
iv ee 
nse oon 
~ ea Be 
ne Auer tapes eo 41° % “ 
15°° 11° aes 


Mee 
nie < 14° > 
FAB y ay ais 
Ue, a ok | 29° ge is 
3 : : we / : | 
40's \ | 4206 ae \e9° 
23 «& . 
x 07° ‘ error Rey a ve Pe 


13° > wn a ‘ ? Ee 
[OS RRL ee 


15°> 
/ 186/11 © 


i ~Y Geodetic Chart : ie. 
° Dec 07, 1941 7 Desa 
bie Hickam Air Base \ ; ie : 
71 07:53:00 AMHST pera 
59"| ZONE: +10:30 = // [59° 
4 157W54'00" i ee 
fe. oh on™ 21N20'00" ny 
\ \e a SN ; ” / 
“a 
oo 40' 


\ 

\ 

\ 
Geodetic Chart : \ 7 
Feb 04, 1998 \7) aoe 


Mazar Sten are | a73€10° V | | 
12:00:00 PM Z04 ar enn 3 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


for Hickam. Note the resonance! The ascendant and midheaven signs are the 
same as those in the chart for the attack moment. By degree they are fairly close 
as well, being fewer than 7 degrees different for both ascendant and midheaven. 
If we use an attack time of some 28 minutes later, when the worst damage was 
being done to the US ships (the USS Arizona was lost with 1,104 men killed), 
we would have a strong - though melancholy - resonance between the two 
charts. 


5. Earthquakes in Afghanistan; geodetics and calamities 
Traditionally, geodetic charts have been used in astrological studies of earth 
calamities. Let's look at two recent earthquakes in Afghanistan. The first on 4 
February, 1998, measured 6.4 on the Richter scale. It killed about 4,000 peo- 
ple in the mountainous northern region of the country and left some 15,000 
homeless. This quake was followed by aftershocks for a week. The second 
major quake occurred some 4 months later on I June. It too killed about 4,000 
people outright and left an estimated further 45,000 homeless. 

Figure 91 is the geodetic chart for the first quake on 4 February, 1998. 
We see that Pluto, the planet of the underworld, death and resurrection, is 
almost exactly on the IC or foundation of the chart. This is a perfect symbol- 
ism for a powerful earth purging from below. We can also observe that Mars 
is moving to the chart's descendant (and South Node), alerting us perhaps to 
a dangerous trigger point for the quake. Note that the Nodes are very close to 
the ascendant-descendant axis, having just crossed them in their retrograde mo- 


; a) 6 rf \“ % + 24 £ ‘ 
ers rested 07 (12/ eo aes 7 7 \ “ = ‘age | 
1p d an | Mazar-E SharifAFG = 3€ | 
op oe 12:00:00 PM Z04 | | om 3 are ge | | 
41"! 4 ZONE: -04:30 /6/ os° laat! 
‘ 067E06'00" ra) : 
ees 36N42'00" «A Beggs 
2 7 5 RO. 420 ; 
Lean tt 58° WY 
09°. NS) 4 mm sf A6'/ 
ae , Pe een o1° oa / 
oN i a 4 ¥ y o 
02s / qt a9351 es  /10° / 
2 que Nae 
: age z 01°06"! ee a 
08" i cs | ea 
~~ Bei a NS 
Mh og: Se ei ge a“ 


“OTe 06 


Figure 92 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 
1 AS 


bY a 


XB 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


tion. The nodes often aspect chart angles in geodetic calamity charts. Figure 
92 is the geodetic chart for the second quake to befall the suffering populace, 
this one even more violent then the first. Here we see that trigger planet Mars 
has now moved to the chart’s midheaven (along with the Sun), that Pluto re- 
mains on the IC, and that the Nodes, now direct in motion, are still near the 
ascendant-descendant axis. Surely these geodetic charts offer us valuable in- 
sight into these events which where not specifically timed. 

ACG maps can be created with a geodetic orientation (Greenwich me- 
ridiem =0 degrees Aries). Such maps can be employed to watch the earth for 
possible mundane events”. For example, since the geodetic Pluto on the IC 
has been moving across Afghanistan, not only have we seen the earthquakes, 
but the Taliban have brought about a thorough and brutal Plutonic-type purge 
of the culture there. In 1998 and 1999 with geodetic Neptune moving through 
the far east those economies have been going through a meltdown. With Sat- 
urn on the MC approaching Moscow the Russian economic system fell on hard 
times. Figure 93 is the geodetic world map for the new year, 01 January 2000 
timed for London. I've only included MC and IC lines for clarity. I leave it to 
the reader to ponder the possible correspondences of geodetic positions and 
possible world events. 


6. The Northridge California earthquake 
California was hit by a quake, centred in Northridge on 17* January, 1994. 


Geodetic Chart 


Jan 17, 1994 7. 145°) 
/ Northridge,CA po | Q ‘ 
| 04:31:00 AM PST —— ! 
\43 ZONE: +08:00 16; |30°: 
118W32'00" vie so 
NG 34N14'00" Pees / 
- 2: A § / 
BE a Se va eee Jy 
3" : Ed a 7 6 de 
Ty ; : U /4 6°’ 
/ I “ 
i 01 \ 48" 
Ty ae | 
Seared. © | all 


rd 01° 2 


Figure 94 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


Figure 94 is the geodetic chart for the location at the timed moment of first 
tremor. Note that Pluto is moving to the chart's midheaven'® and that the Nodes 
are involved yet again, this time all but perfectly aligned with the midheaven/ 
IC axis! Trigger planet Mars is on the Uranus-Neptune conjunction of that time, 
which could be an indication of an instability or misdirected energy. 


= . 
hs 1S : 
; N2te 
Da 
we N26" 
ue ‘ \ 
we Tp 08° & \ 
Geodetic Chart R, 43 
Jan 17, 1994 \7, 145°) 
Northridge,CA i a 
04:31:00AMPST => 
ZONE: +08:00 /6; 30°: 
118W32'00" ae me 
34N14'00" / ; 
4 F { 
i. eek “ . i / 
> ae 3 4 » .. {33° / 
fp ee % “'s if 
151 / SS 
~ Ir : 
29° ey 48 
T em Vv ca ae I “ 


~~ 01° IE 28" cee 


Figure 94 


7. The volcanic eruption at Mt Pelee, West Indies 

This deadly eruption occurred on 8* May, 1902, causing the most casualties 
of any such event during the entire 20 century. The city of St Pierre 
Martinique, nestled at the foot of the mountain, was completely destroyed by 
lava flow, and most all of its 30,000 inhabitants were killed outright. Since the 
event itself was untimed, we have a perfect candidate for a geodetic analysis. 
Figure 95 is the geodetic chart for that date and location. Note that Saturn, the 
planet of karmic pay-back, sits on the chart's most public point the midheaven. 
And how can one help but notice that both trigger planet Mars and the Nodes 
(yet again) are conjoining the ascendant-descendant axis! 

155 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


NOTES 


1. For an account of Ptolemy's map and other earth zodiacs, see Appendix 9, The 
Book of World Horoscopes, by Nicholas Campion, Cinnabar Books, 1995. 


2. The fullest historical exploration of earth zodiacs, including Sepharial's contribu- 
tion, can be found in Chapter 11, Mundane Astrology, by Michael Baigent, Nicholas 
Campion and Charles Harvey, Aquarian Press, 1984. 1 would hope that every seri- 
ous student of mundane astrology has both this book and Campion's work listed above. 
1 can't recommend them too highly! 


3. A big thank-you to Arielle Guttman who, on a visit here to Scodand, first showed 
me this diagram and alerted me to the value of geodetic charts. 


4. This doesn't explain Gengis Kahn, who came from Mongolia, a Cancer-influenced 
region. Nor does it cover Japan's inclination for world conquest as part of the Axis 
alliance of WW 11. But we should note that Japan is in the fiery geodetic sign of Leo, 
in harmonious trine to Aries. 


5. This calculation of the geodetic chart can be found in computer programs such as 
WinStar and Solar Maps. 


6. 1 believe that the first astrologer to calculate this world map was Chris McRae, who 
did her work in 1985 using Matrix Software's Blue*Star program and the new com- 
puters coming onto the market at that time. She published her work - and the map 
— in her book, The Geodetic World Map, AFA, 1988. Her map can also be found in The 
Astrology of the Macrocosm, edited by Joan McEvers, Llewellyn Publications, 1990, page 
165. used McRae's map approximations as the trial starting points of my hand drawn 
one. 


7. When the map is drawn properly, Rome is just outside the geodetic Leo rising band, 
but most of Italy does in fact have a Leo rising signature. 


8. Noting that the equatorial perspective is generally accepted for identifying earth 
location and for navigational activity, we see a symbolically powerful 'marriage' of 
the zodiac's 0 Aries point with the locational and navigational beacon, the Greenwich 
meridian. In terms of world time-keeping, the Greenwich meridian is also considered 
the prime meridian from which Universal Time (UT) is measured. 


9. See Chapter 11, Mundane Astrology, Aquarian Press, 1984. 


10. See 'The Mountain Astrologer', January 1996, Page 64: 'The modified Johndro 
Chart', by Mare Penfield. 


11. This means 1 have aJupiterrising line crossing northern Britain on my ACG map. 


12. In spite of the intrinsic beauty of any place, some individuals would never feel 


156 


GEODETICS AND RESONANT CHARTS 


comfortable there, or at least they wouldn't describe it as their favourite spot on earth. 
1 myself feel uneasy in California for any long period of time, perhaps due to the in- 
tensity of my Pluto on the MH line, which is nearby. 


13. The ACG booklet accompanying official ACG maps, Jim Lewis, 1976. 


14. 1f we were to use the Earth signature of Washington, DC for that day, as that 
location would later become the nation's capitol, the conjunction of Sun and 1C be- 
comes exact. 


15. Page 318, 'The Lowering and Raising of the Flags'. 


16. Campion also points out that “For such a major event the reporting (of the time) 
was surprisingly confused". Reports of the specific time ranges from 7:32 pm to 7:45 
pm, a difference of only 13 minutes. For this study 1 have used the time of 7:38 pm as 
reported by Russian astrologer Y. Kuryakov. Any time selected in this range however 
would be in resonance with Moscow's geodetic signature. See Book of World Horoscopes, 
footnote 1173, page 689. 


17. The Solar Maps computer program has this feature. Another possibility would be 
to use the geodetic world map (Figure 78) and estimate where a transiting planetary 


midheaven would be located on it. 


18. Pluto is also at 27 degrees of Scorpio, a degree associated with calamity in geo- 
detic astrology. 


157 


AFTERWORD 


Thank you for joining me on this astrological journey through space and time. 
The purpose of this book has been to present a healthy cross-section of 
astrolocality astrology. I never, however, intended it to be an exhaustive sur- 
vey of the field. With that in mind I'd like to acknowledge the astrologers and 
the computer mapping programs that haven't been specifically mentioned 
herein. They too are making significant contributions to the field, and I hope 
the reader will seek them out, utilising and applying what they have to offer. 


The greatest problem of employing astrolocality astrology in our lives 
is a deeply personal one, rather than the issue of using one technique or the 
other. Essentially, whenever we arrive at a new place, the one thing that hasn't 
changed is ourselves!' Will we allow the new energy and potential of a loca- 
tion to consciously influence us or, becoming fearful, will we put up 
psychological barriers and resist it? This personal responsibility, I believe, is 
the unspoken requirement for the successful use of astrolocality astrology? 


There is a concept in contemporary physics that is applicable here. It 
is called “active information". In systems that include active information, a 
form, having very little energy itself, enters into and directs (or "informs") a 
much greater energy*. An example of this might be the information carried in 
a relatively weak satellite radio signal which causes a huge oil tanker to change 
its course. I believe that astrolocality astrology offers us potent active infor- 
mation. Armed with the information we get from its relatively modest and 
symbolic signals, we can make major locational decisions that are conscious 
and empowering. I can hardly conceive of anything more "active" for us then 
a thought or bit of information that changes our lives! 


What of the future for astrolocality astrology? Certainly we can expect 
more tools and techniques both to widen our perspective and increase the in- 
formation provided to us. That's in line with our expectations for most modern, 
computer-related systems. But what beyond that? Perhaps we can look to our 
experiencing a further archaic revival, this time from the realm of hermetic 
magic. Hermetic magicians agreed with astrologers that the stars influence our 
terrestrial domain. But to the magicians, astrologers were on a limited, one- 
way path, merely interpreting the stars for what would happen on earth. Behind 


159 


the magical view was the belief that a link could be made to work in both 
directions, with individuals not only interpreting the celestial information but 
also feeding influences back to the stars to alter the course of their lives and 
history itself. 


I believe this magical possibility is awaiting our rediscovery today, with 
astrolocality astrology as the stepping-stone to that achievement. 


Martin Davis 
Abbey Saint Bathans 
Scodand 


June 1999 


NOTES 


1. See Donna Cunningham's article, "Wherever you go, you take yourself along - Why 
moving won't solve all of your problems", The Mountain Astrologer, Issue # 84, April/ 
May 1999. 


2. The specifics of how we truly learn at an earth location - or not - are mysterious 
and worthy of separate study. There is a quality of this learning process, however, 
which I can best describe as “courageous participation". 
A poetic description can be found in T S Eliot's Four Quartets: 
"... quick now, here, now, always - 
A condition of complete simplicity 
Costing not less than everything...”. 


3. Science, Order and Creativity by David Bohm and F. Peat Roudedge, 1989, page 93. 


160 


APPENDIX ONE 


ASTRO*CARTO*GRAPHY INTERPRETATIONS 


By Jeff Jawer 


Jeff Jawerhas been practicing astrology professionally for over 24 years. He is a highly 
respected teacher, regularly invited to leading conferences around the world, Jeff has 
written well over 100 articles and has co-authored four books. He is co-founder and 
CEO of StarlQ,com., the astrology portal site. For information on consultations you can 
also email him atJawer@Bigfoot.com. 


The most important consideration in interpreting a relocation chart or 
Astro*Carto*Graphy map is the condition of the planet in the natal chart. The 
following interpretations are just one way to combine the meaning of a planet 
and an angle. Adding information from the natal chart will enrich these inter- 
pretations. 


The Ascendant, also called the Rising Sign or cusp of the Ist house, is the 
point rising in the East It represents the beginning, the front ones appearance 
or first impression. The Ascendant is where the turning Earth meets the sky. 
Any planet at this point takes on a position of prominence, it occupies the fore- 
ground, sometimes dominating the landscape. A planet at this point may be 
the first thing others see when they meet you. Itcan even be what you see when 
you look in the mirror. This is also about physical conditions, both of your body 
and your environment. Planets here influence health, energy levels and your 
general outlook on life for a given location. 


The IC, or 4th house cusp, is the bottom of the chart, the northernmost point 
It symbolizes one's roots, both physically and spiritually. It can be seen as the 
base or foundation, even as an entry point: the Ascendant is birth, the IC is 
conception. While this is a very important point it is also quite hidden from 
the world, sometimes even from ourselves. But from the perspective of relo- 
cation, it could be the most important angle in the chart. It is not so much about 
us, about how we appear, connect with others or the world. It is about how 
we connect with the place. 


16] 


The Descendant, or 7th house cusp, is the primary point of partnership in 
the chart. It is the western point where the individual Sun sets to share the light 
with another. Planets here put the focus on relationships, both personal and 
public. A key to working with this point is to be the planet(s) that you find there. 
Projection, that is letting other people play these out for you, is a less desir- 
able way to experience these. The influence you have on others and the qual- 
ity of your relationships is revealed to a large degree by this point. 


The MC or 10th house cusp is the uppermost point in the chart. It has to do 
with career, one's place in society and, to a certain degree, a place to which 
we are evolving. There is public notice here, but also public responsibility. 
Planets in this area often feel isolated as they carry a strong burden. It is not 
easy to share with planets here. This is a place where you are publicly account- 
able. Career is certainly emphasized, so planets in this area will bring profes- 
sional issues to the surface. 


THE SUN 

Sun on the Ascendant - You're at the sunrise point. Confidence, courage 
and creativity rise to the surface. You can be generous or absorbed with your- 
self. In either case, you may feel like you're the center of the universe here. 
This is a good place to take risks and push the limits of self-expression. You 
can be a leader, not because you try to lead, but simply by the force of your 
personality. This is also an environment that can be physically invigorating for 
you. Vitality may be strengthened, the heart opened and your capacity to 
impose your will enhanced. 

Sun on the 1C The Sun on the IC warms the home fires. There can be 
an inner confidence and feeling of creativity. But, this is primarily expressed 
in ones home. The need to shine or be noticed is not a public matter here. This 
is the place where you can be king or queen of your castle. Negatively, that 
could mean becoming the little dictator in your own little world. However, it 
is more likely to mean that you feel ‘warmed! by this location, as it contrib- 
utes to your physical well-being. You're connected to a powerful source of 
energy here, one that can fuel your creative endeavors. It can, too, be a place 
where the light is shined inward, where the greatest works are private. This is 
the midnight point of the chart so the Sun's placement here emphasizes the 
night side of things. You can use this to illuminate issues of family, origins and 
early childhood. 

Sun on the Descendant - You need partnership to shine in this location. 
The positive feedback of others is required to keep your creative juices flow- 
ing. Negatively, you can look for a hero to rescue you. But, positively, this can 
be the place where you're courageous in partnerships, able to create new and 
more dynamic forms of relationship. Your need for recognition by others is 
also strong here. But, if you're willing to come from the heart those needs can 


162 


be met Expect solar partners here. Ideally, that means individuals who are 
also creative and courageous. Negatively, this can be the egocentric partner. 
This is a place for you to be generous and expect the same in return from others. 

Sun on the MC- This noon position of the Sun can be very good for your 
professional life. You bring confidence and creativity to the public arena You 
can be a leader here, easily recognized for your courage and strong will. Oth- 
ers may regard you with more respect than they might in many other places. 
The spotlight is on you and the need to perform up to standards is very high. 
You can go far in fulfilling your ‘destiny’ here, but the challenges can also be 
great. You're not likely to able to just 'get by’ - the full investment of your heart 
and spirit is expected. Fortunately, its also a place where it is easier for you to 
do so. The Sun is about risk, so this is a place to push the limits profession- 
ally, not an environment for just passing time. Public honors may await you 
here. 


THE MOON 

Moon on the Ascendant - Emotions come into the foreground here as your 
emotional antenna is up all of the time. This is a place in which you may be 
dominated by feelings. Self-nurturance is a major issue - concerns with your 
personal needs can take a great deal of your time and effort, and instinct and 
reactions are very powerful here. This is not likely to be a place that you feel 
neutral about Either you belong or you clearly do not. Get in touch with your 
maternal instincts. You're a caretaker and need to make your own feelings your 
first priority. 

Moon on the IC This is home. It is where the Moon, the planet of home, 
is at the very roots of your chart. This can be a very familiar place, cocoon- 
like, and a security blanket that wraps you in its arms, cuddles and protects 
you. You should feel very comfortable here, like you've always known this 
place. Your roots can go deep, but that can also mean that the focus is on your 
inner, not outer life. Family matters count more than career here, unless you 
set up a cozy little business that feels like home. If you're interested in inves- 
tigating your past lives, you should do it here. 

Moon on the Descendant - Your sensitivity to others is very strong here. 
You may find partners who are caretakers or who need your caretaking. Re- 
lationship issues are rather emotional as your connections with others are domi- 
nated by feelings. This can be good for therapy as personal issues are more 
easily shared with others. You could wind up being ‘married’ to your family 
here and, at worst lose touch with your own needs. Make sure that emotional 
support is reciprocal. In doing so, trust and intimacy are enhanced. Without 
these, dependency issues can become problematic. 

Moon on the MC -You become the mother of the world. You can feel re- 
sponsible for everyone and everything. If you like that role, this can be a very 
beneficial place. You're likely to be well-known here, perhaps a public figure. 


163 


But, beware of losing yourself in the demands of career and public activity. 
Nurturance is something you give others here, but don't easily get back in a 
personal way. Connected to everyone, you can nevertheless feel a bit isolated. 
Balance this with attention to your inner needs so that you don't lose touch 
with them. 


MERCURY 

Mercury on the Ascendant - Mental alertness and communication are the 
key influences here. Intellect may dominate your experiences. This can be a 
good place to be a writer. The minds activity tends to be very active. Curios- 
ity is strong and you may be full of questions. Nervous energy or restiessness 
may be common in this location. It can be difficult to feel setded as there may 
be a great deal of coming and going. Ideally, this is a location when you may 
become more objective about yourself. 

Mercury on the IC - This is the writer in her little garden of ideas. It's a 
place where you can connect to information without ever leaving home. Ideas 
move through you easily here, but perhaps can leave you feeling restless. Your 
home life is less marked by sentiment than by intellect. This can be a good 
place for you to study and advance your education. But, Mercury often raises 
more questions than it answers. Curiosity is piqued, yet coming to conclusions 
and resolving lifes larger issues may not be so easy. 

Mercury on the Descendant - Intelligent conversation with bright partners 
is favored here. This is a place where relationships are dominated by the mind, 
not the emotions. If you need more rationality in your relationships you can 
be well served by this environment. Discussions may be lengthy, but they can 
provide the objective information you need. Of course, you could just feel like 
an outside observer of your own life. You may need to jump in from time to 
time to overcome this sense of distance. 

Mercury on the MC - A profession that focuses on the intellect commu- 
nication and connections makes sense here. You may gain public recognition 
for your intelligence or communication skills. But principles and big issues 
may have to yield to smaller details. Your ability to adapt in professional matters 
can be tested here. This environment should be good for education, a place 
where you gather information helpful to your career. 


VENUS 

Venus on the Ascendant - With the planet of beauty and attraction rising 
this can be an excellent place for relationships. Of course, your need for ap- 
proval can also be very strong here. In fact this placement is also about learning 
to please yourself, not just gaining appreciation from others. Natural grace and 
artistic skills are favored here. You'll have better instincts for making yourself 
look good. The pleasure principle is another aspect of Venus, so that fun and 
games may be more important than hard work and commitment. 


164 


Venus on the IC- Your home and family life can be graced by beauty and 
pleasure. This is a place where your connection with nature and the earth is 
favored. It is also a place where gifts come from your family. These can be in 
the form of talents and objects. Inner peace and the development of a loving 
relationship with your home are found here. Just look inside yourself and you'll 
find all the beauty you desire. You'll learn that love is something you have, 
not something given to you by others. 

Venus on the Descendant - This may be the best place in the world to at- 
tract a loving partner. The likelihood of getting the approval of others is 
strengthened here. But, you could also connect with partners who are narcis- 
sistic or self-indulgent. Make sure that what you give is returned to you in equal 
portion. Your diplomatic and social skills can enhance all of your relationships. 
You've a better sense of what others need and how to give it to them. Just don't 
lose touch with the need to assert yourself as well. 

Venus on the MC - Your professional life may be charmed here. Great 
pleasure and joy can come through your work and service to the community. 
Careers in the arts are supported here. This can also be a place where your 
social skills pay off professionally. One challenge may be that you feel the 
constant pressure to be nice to everyone, as if you are responsible for their 
collective happiness. Being clear about what you're willing to give (and what 
you need in return) can prevent this from becoming a problem. 


MARS 

Mars on the Ascendant - Thewarrior planet at this powerful personal point 
can push you to take the initiative. Physical activity and the pressure to act now 
are strong here. This can be very energizing and provides much needed mo- 
tivation. But, there can also be a sense of struggle, the need to battle in your 
every day life. You need to choose your challenges, rather than sitting back 
and having to defend yourself on a regular basis. If you're willing to approach 
your life with a new attitude this can be a great location. But if you're not ready 
for change the stress may be more than you desire. 

Mars on the IC - This is a challenging placement as the battles of Mars 
work very deeply inside of you. The earth around you demands much work 
and attention. It's not an easy place to relax. Home and family life may be more 
stressed here. But, if you are interested in breaking ground, both psychologi- 
cally and professionally, the forces here may help you do the job. This is a place 
to start all over. If you're ready, it can provide the juice you need. 

Mars on the Descendant - Are you ready to push the limits of your rela- 
tionships? You may have some serious battles with others on your hands with 
Mars placed here. Aggressive individuals and challenging situations keep you 
moving. It can be fatiguing unless you choose the time and place of your battles. 
You can break through old patterns in partnerships, but dont expect a lot of 
time to relax with others. You must be prepared to take initiative so you're not 


165 


a fixed object of attack. Push forward and discover new levels of passion in 
your relationships. 

Mars on the MC - There is a certain affinity for Mars and the MC. The 
MC is the cusp of the 10th house and Mars is exalted in Capricorn, the [0th 
sign of the Zodiac. Professional initiative and leadership can be displayed here. 
But, this is not a place to hold your ground. Rather it represents the need to 
push the limits professionally. You can be an innovator and pioneer here. It's 
possible that you may feel like all the responsibility falls on you in this place. 
If you are able to act independently and with courage you may be rewarded 
with a new career. 


JUPITER 

Jupiter on the Ascendant - Expansive Jupiter on the Ascendant often gives 
one a feeling of confidence in this location. You're able to express yourself with 
optimism, enabling your self-image to grow. This is a place where you are 
guided by vision, but may not have much patience for details. Jupiter needs 
to grow, so this is not a place to stand still. If you want to learn more about 
yourself and share your wisdom with others, there are few better places. But 
it can be frustrating if your hopes are not attainable. You can feel like you're 
always falling short of your expectations. 

Jupiter on the IC -This is the philosopher's home, a place where you can 
explore the world from the comfort of your own house. All the knowledge of 
the universe flows through you here. Understanding your origins is strong, and 
making connections with family patterns, even with past lives, is favored in 
this location. Your vision grows here, a positive step towards future professional 
expansion. The earth is welcoming and supports your growth. 

Jupiter on the Descendant- Opportunities for partnership abound here. On 
personal and professional levels others are ready to welcome and support you. 
Your judgment is well respected by others. This is a place to give and receive 
wisdom. Your understanding of relationships grows here as you attract wise 
and generous partners. The ability to present your ideas is strong in this location. 

Jupiter on the MC - This is one of the best possible situations for career 
and public recognition. Opportunities for professional success are strong. Take 
risks to expand the boundaries in your work life. You'll need to have some- 
thing that pushes you to grow. This is not a place to stand still professionally. 
Your expectations of the outside world and of yourself are high. Teaching, 
travel, publishing, sales and promotion are possible career choices here. 


SATURN 
Saturn on the Ascendant - At first glance this looks like an unfavorable po- 
sition. Saturn imposes limitations and the Ascendant is where we stand. This 
is a place where patience, discipline and persistence may be needed to over- 
come resistance. The rewards for such effort are self-respect and personal ac- 


166 


complishment. You can be master or your world if you have the necessary 
discipline. Life's challenges are right in front of you. This is your chance to 
master them. 

Saturn on the IC-The inner world calls here. Serious matters are met at 
the depths of your being. Family issues, feelings of isolation and deeply felt 
insecurities can prove daunting. But this is a place to build a solid foundation. 
It may take a long time to fit into this environment - it doesn't welcome you 
easily. You have the chance to manage your inner fears, overcome the past and 
reconstruct a new life based on dignity and self-respect. 

Saturn on the Descendant - Serious work on relationships is likely here. 
You won't be given much without effort. If youre willing to take responsibility 
for building partnerships, and have the necessary discipline, you can be suc- 
cessful here. You could, though, attract partners who are older, fearful, lim- 
ited or controlling. Positively, they could be mature, competent and reliable. 
Clarity serves you well here. You can earn respect and establish long-lasting 
relationships with focus and commitment. 

Saturn on the MC -This is Saturn's natural position, generally good for 
career. But this doesn't guarantee professional success. In fact struggle may 
be more likely, yet persistence will be rewarded. This can be a place where 
the weight of responsibility is heavy. You can be an organizer, manager or long- 
term builder. Career planning counts here, as Saturn likes structure. If you have 
a well defined goal and can manage your time and resources, you can accom- 
plish a great deal. 


URANUS 

Uranus on the Ascendant - The planet of revolution at this personal point 
adds weirdness. You may feel a bit strange or different here. It's not easy to 
blend in and make yourself inconspicuous. This is, rather, a place to reinvent 
yourself. Originality is favored here. But, it can be difficult to feel comfortable 
with yourself. Flexibility and a willingness to break you old patterns can make 
this strange place feel more like home, even a place of great freedom. 

Uranus on the IC - this is not an easy place to feel at home. It is a place 
for breaking free of the past, for letting go of old patterns and discovering new 
ways to live your life. You can move into new forms of living, not continue 
the old ones. You might feel disconnected, misunderstood and alone, but can 
also discover your genius here. This is your own little earthquake zone, great 
for shaking your old patterns, but not an easy place to settle down. 

Uranus on the Descendant Relationships can be volatile here. You can 
attract some very unusual partners and unusual forms of relationships. Move- 
ment and change are stronger than stability here. You can have a very strong 
effect on those you meet. They may find you magnetic and brilliant or weird 
and strange. Your job here is to wake up people, to shake their patterns. Ex- 
pect change, look for it and create it Dynamism is your ally, be ready to make 
break-throughs in partnerships. 


167 


Uranus on the MC -Careers can rise and fall quickly with this setup. This 
is about making radical changes in your professional life, perhaps taking on 
an unusual occupation. It can be very difficult to maintain stability in your 
work. Circumstances can change quickly. When they dont, you do. This can 
work well if youre very original and are willing to take risks. You may not ap- 
preciate authority figures here or accept your own responsibilities. Be a revo- 
lutionary and let your originality shine. 


NEPTUNE 

Neptune on the Ascendant - Thisis a place to cast yourself to the winds. It 
isn't you but destiny that calls the shots. You might as well relax and let go. 
It's not easy to see yourself clearly here, at least not on the personal level. 
Neptune leads you beyond this world to one of wondrous visions and holy 
truths, but also one of illusion. Life can become like a movie. You can use your 
imagination to create any image that you want. The risk, though, is to lose 
yourself in the process. Fantasy and faith are strong here. A good dose of re- 
ality provides balance. 

Neptune on the IC-This can be like living in a dream world, afantasyland 
of every day life. Life needs to be built on spiritual principles here. If so, this 
environment can support your ideals and dreams. Your home needs to be a 
very quiet place, a sanctuary from the world. The magic is behind closed doors 
here. This can be a challenging place for your professional life, as practicality 
is not supported by Neptune. If, though, you can live your life at a highly 
refined level of awareness, you can find yourself supported here. 

Neptune on the Descendant - The place where you can marry God. It is 
the projection of the God principle on a partner. Neptune shows where we want 
to dissolve the individual and belong to something greater. Partnerships usu- 
ally require clarity, communication, negotiation, contracts, conversations. Nep- 
tune requires only surrender and faith. You attract dreamers here. Good ones 
help you dream better. Bad ones help keep you in your illusions. There is, 
though, a beautiful marriage of body and soul possible here. 

Neptune on the MC - Neptune is sensitive to everything and the MC is 
responsibility for everything. Be clear about your professional commitments 
so that you don't get worn out here. This may not an easy place for career. 
People can mislead you. You can wear yourself out for something that doesn't 
reward the effort equally. But, if spirituality is your business, or healing or music 
or anything else that inspires you, this is the place. 


PLUTO 
Pluto on the Ascendant - This is a place to focus the microscope on your- 
self. To closely observe yourself and carefully insert yourself into the environ- 
ment People may be frightened of you because you carry Pluto's power in your 
face. You can be very strong here, this is not a place for the weak. If you're 


168 


interested in the psychology of self-mastery this can be a useful environment. 
Your body may be transformed, so healthy habits are very important. 

Pluto on the IC - You have found a secret passageway to your own his- 
tory. This dark place is full of mystery and memories. You'll meet your family 
karma here, that's for sure. If you want to go within yourself and discover your 
secrets, you have come to the right place. But, for mere mortals this can be a 
challenging location. The earth doesn't give easily of itself here. There may 
be great riches to be found, but your aim must be true to capture the prize. 

Pluto on the Descendant- You may attract powerful partners here. Be pow- 
erful yourself and it can work to your advantage. You'll learn to measure what 
to give for what you want back. This is a place to see the exchanges taking place. 
Pluto is a furnace and here it is the furnace of partnership - if you are willing 
to face your inner demons and let go of fear a new depth in relationships is 
possible. 

Pluto on the MH -Power struggles in your career or with authority fig- 
ures are common here. This is the place to express your deepest desires through 
your profession, which can be totally transformed here. Ideally this is an en- 
vironment in which your work enables you to be an agent of change, perhaps 
for doing research or managing the resources of others. If you're focused on 
your purpose you can be a powerful figure in this location. However, corrup- 
tion can stick to you if your aims aren't pure. 


169 


APPENDIX TWO 


LOCAL SPACE ANGULAR LOCATIONS 
by Martin Davis 


The nature of our experiences at specific angular locations in Local Space is 
similar to what we would find for angular lines in ACG (see Appendix 1). When 
we employ Local Space charts, however, the angular planetary qualities are 
seen as operating in a practical and immediately substantial manner. Evaluation 
of the lines in ACG can include the long-run implications of one's potential, 
growth and psychological development. 

To illustrate this, a list of possibilities for Local Space planetary empow- 
erment follows. Note that the east and west listings may represent new infor- 
mation for us. These angular locations are often different from the ascending 
and descending locations found in ACG maps or their corresponding relocated 
charts. Locations with angular north and south planets in LS, however, do 
direcdy correlate with ACG Midheaven or IC lines. 1 have included these north 
and south locations to further illustrate the gritty detail used for LS interpre- 
tations. Do note that for some locations (especially in the southern hemisphere), 
north and south readings should be switched: 


THE SUN 

East. Willpower, confidence, energy and enthusiasm seem to grow from 
the moment of arrival. It is fine now to push yourself forward and take advan- 
tage of the leadership roles and responsibility that are offered to you - here is 
a place, at last, where your potential can unfold. Whatever your profession, 
there is a high likelihood that it will be supported. Self-help and self-improve- 
ment courses, where you will be either the teacher or the student, are ideal. 
More spiritually directed endeavours of self-realisation will draw you to them 
as will projects in the creative arts. 

Sounds good, doesn't it? Any catches? Well, yes. With all this creativity 
and energy buzzing around big-headedness is a distinct possibility; beware of 
becoming so self absorbed that you miss out on what is coming into your life 
from others and from great nature herself. Believe it or not, there are others 
in this world too! Don't stop Hsteningto them. Be alert to the danger of becoming 


171 


arrogant or narcissistic and this location will work for you. Males or those in 
authority will be around to give support when it is needed. 


West. Courage, self-expression and the ability to come from the heart 
are important themes when the Sun is placed in a cardinal direction, and at 
this location the focus will be on relationships. They will be successful if you 
show courage in creating new and inspired ones. Can you come from your 
heart in relationships? Can you shine forth? If you haven't been clear in the 
past about what that means, these issues will naturally emerge here. If success- 
ful, you should attract capable and loyal friends, an experience which will 
become a learning and heart-opening process. Overly egocentric partners or 
power struggles here may indicate that you are not respecting another's need 
for self-expression. 

A natural flair for public relations could involve you working in sales 
or promotion.. Positions that require those skills will emerge as others sense 
your talent. A specific business partner should pop up when needed. 

Marriage partner for a female? A real possibility. But whatever type of 
relationship develops, do listen to others, since they will be the channel and 
inspiration for ideas and growth for you at this location.. 


North: The expressions 'home is where the heart is’ and 'keep the home 
fires burning’ will become relevant for you at this location. 

There will be a strong desire to set up a home and family, combined 
with the need to understand your roots - this may take the form of tracing your 
family genealogy for the first time ever. From the moment of arrival this place 
has felt like home and it will be a strong contender for a retirement spot. You 
may become known for your entertaining (perhaps of important people) and 
for the ability to create a beautiful environment. 

On a practical level, if you are house or apartment hunting, a wonder- 
ful place is waiting for you to find it! The local society and culture won't hinder 
your private life-style. This location will support a career or interests in other 
houses, real estate, property management and land issues in general. It's a 
wonderful location for you to become involved in the causes of ecology and 
natural resources. You probably won't want to be a public crusader on these 
issues, but the location supports you in making important contributions, if 
behind the scenes. 

What is the 'down' side of all this? The other side of solar locations is 
excessive pride, a tendency to dominate and the inability to listen when too 
full of yourself. If you are not getting along with your family and/or parents 
now, accept the fault as your own and turn to the bright side of your life. This 
‘bright side’ is your natural potential at this location. 


South: Hail to the chief! You will be looked upon as an authority here 
(whether it is deserved or not). People will feel that you came from a good 


172 


family background, since you appear noble in your demeanour (enjoy their 
respect, as it may melt away in another location). Life events however will 
require that you perform at a high level - a minimal job really won't bring 
satisfaction - but the good news is that your will, courage, and general abili- 
ties are up to the tasks that this location presents to you. As the Hindu god 
Shiva says encouragingly to a recalcitrant Sun on the first day of creation, "You 
are the Sun, so why not shine?"’ Here you'll gain influence with friends and 
colleagues through your career or profession. Your reputation for dependability 
and capability grows, and this prominence is deserved. One day you may come 
to see that your destiny unfolded at this location, especially if you enter into 
politics or another visible aspect of public life. Promotional work is supported 
here. Any job in your field that requires a manager or team leader should be 
yours, and you advance quickly in it as well. 

So what's the problem? They say that every coin has two sides, so what's 
‘tails! for you at this location? Your public reputation can become one of no- 
toriety if the yearning for fame and power causes you to use unscrupulous 
methods to gain it. This could lead to a nasty turn where you actually fall from 
power in public disgrace rather than a scenario where you gain public and pro- 
fessional adulation. 

Are you shining forth at this location while respecting and listening to 
others as well? If so, enjoy your life's high noon here. 


THE MOON 

East. "Do you feel it, can you feel it?", the soul singers cry out to us in 
their songs. At this location you willfeel it, ready or not! Blessed or cursed 
(the choice is yours), here you find the opportunity to experience emotional 
depths. Life events will show to just what extent you are in touch with your 
feelings. The Moon is about nurturing ourselves, and this golden opportunity 
will show how well you have been doing it. Lack of self-nurturing causes us to 
dry up both physically and psychologically, with very unpleasant effects. 

It does seem as if women handle this location better than men. They 
have an easier time ‘turning up the volume’ on the intuitive, caring, loving, 
empathising side of themselves, making a good connection between their feel- 
ings and their consciousness. This, as a positive spin-off, increases their emo- 
tional stamina and the clarity of their memory or personal narrative’. The is- 
sues of home and family become heightened for them. For this reason moth- 
erhood becomes a possibility here. 

Males may be relieved to have finally discovered their emotionally nur- 
turing side. Like the rush of fresh air into a vacuum, males find they have the 
liberating experience of making the connection between their (formerly iso- 
lated) outer consciousness and (formerly suppressed) inner and unconscious 
sides. “Wow, what have I been missing?" they exclaim, as these sides merge, 
becoming a healing and healthful way for them. 


173 


Regardless of your own sex, issues relating to females will dominate at this 
location. Jobs that have to do with caring and sharing will be ideal and prac- 
tically fall into your lap if you want them. Why? You really can handle them 
at this location, and here the cosmos will support you in getting them. Jobs 
connected with female beauty are also favoured, along with artistic endeav- 
ours where the expression of your unconscious is highlighted. In fact, if you 
are an artist, that’s probably the only way to express yourself now. And fi- 
nally, here at last you can talk to plants and they will even answer you! 

So how do you keep a score card at this location? If the events coming 
to you and your responses to them are bringing a good flow of emotional 
deepening and self reflection, then you're getting a top grade! If your nerves 
are frazzled from over-sensitivity to people, issues and events, or the needs of 
others are swamping your own self-stewardship, you need a good rethink, a 
reflection on how you have structured your reality. The key is not to lessen 
your feelings or emotional responses but consciously to become clearer and 
more strategic as to what life issues you choose to connect with here. It is 
possible to balance a healthy inner, emotional life with all the other outer is- 
sues of your reality. The experience of that balance is the possible treasure of 
this location for you. 


West. Has a partner ever complained that you are not particularly sen- 
sitive to their needs, that you left a lot to be desired, and you know deep down 
they may be right? That type of problem will become just a dim and irrelevant 
memory at this location. In fact you'll find that here both your sensitivity to 
partners and your needs for warmth and nurturing from them, will swing to 
the 'turned on’ side like a pendulum gone mad! Your emotional buttons are 
constandy activated and this includes close friends and even by members of 
a wider public circle. 

How might this new sensitivity be put to good use? You will be a natu- 
ral here for planning all sorts of public-relations campaigns. This location will 
offer support if you are in sales, especially of food, domestic and feminine prod- 
ucts. Partnerships in the caring fields or the arts may be offered to you, but 
they are emotionally sensitive and less cool and strategic than you might wish 
for. Here at last you can open up to a therapist as issues become clearer and 
you can share them with him (her). 

Females will find they have an enhanced possibility of attracting a sen- 
sitive partner who will support them in establishing a home and family. Males 
will find they understand their female partners (at last!) and that they are bet- 
ter able to deal with females in general than ever before. For both sexes, this 
is simply a great place to take someone you love. The caring and sharing be- 
tween you will flow as never before. 

What should you be on the alert for at this location? Vacations may be 
fun here, but beware of becoming emotionally ragged and exhausted from 


174 


long-term, intense relating. Feelings flow easily and frequently. Watch out too 
that you don't become a doormat to keep another happy. 

As with other positions of the Moon, probably the worst thing to do is 
to try and shut down your feelings. That's just suppression and it won't work 
anyway, simply making you more prone to creating debilitating ego strategies 
for yourself, with resulting unhappiness. Of course you could move away, but 
that's missing the opportunities of this location. The best thing may be to dig 
deeper into yourself, striving to remain as conscious as possible, taking great 
care as to who you decide to relate with - or not - especially in those rela- 
tionships of an intimate nature. 

If you get it right at this location, you will not only come to truly un- 
derstand works such as Shakespeare's Sonnets but you will be able to write 
your own, articulating your love for others authentically, from direct experience. 


North: Home at last! Now you know how a triple Cancer might expe- 
rience life. This can be a tough location to focus on career, as your attention 
is directed elsewhere to putting down roots, starting a family and buying a 
house. In time, everything should fall into place for you to be able to retire 
comfortably here. Happiness is an issue that has to be closely looked at with 
the Moon in the north. You may find that your happiness revolves around 
setting up a meaningful home life. If that doesn't happen right away, you might 
begin to feel incomplete as a person. This can result in the opposite of what 
you yearn for as you end up moving about, changing residences frequently. If 
this is happening, do ask yourself ifthe moves are coming from a need to seek 
new emotional experiences, a need which could be fulfilled in other, more 
direct, ways. 

As with other Moon positions, women usually have an easier time in- 
tegrating the requirements and pleasures of this location. It can be a great 
opportunity for a man, however, to become attuned to the joys of a cozy and 
secure home. And it's a great location for a man to learn how to cook - and 
really enjoy it. In fact, watch your diet, as both males and females will delight 
in preparing and eating food at this location. So much the better if this loca- 
tion affords the opportunity to be near lakes, rivers or even near an ocean. If 
it isn't, do create watery spaces like garden ponds for yourself. 

You might as well keep a space in your home for parents or in-laws, since 
there is a high probability that they will enter your life here. Another thing to 
be aware of is that circumstances might lead you to an emotional reliance on 
your mother from this location. So do encourage her to visit, which might fulfil 
this energy in a positive way. 

Gardening skills will come easily here and you may even want to be- 
come a farmer for the first time in your life. Business or career activities re- 
lated to food, real estate and products used in the home should flourish for 
you as well. 


175 


South: Congratulations, you're the local hero! The problem is that the 
local folk believe they need you body and soul. You are their nurturer - at least 
for the time being. If you can handle the crowds - with their needs and de- 
mands — then this is the place where you will be asked (perhaps begged) to 
run for public office. In a similar vein, careers in acting or entertainment are 
also supported. Other careers that require public sensitivity will flourish here, 
such as in advertising, sales or in the caring field. It's a great location for a healer 
too. Assistance from a women of wealth or social standing is possible here, as 
is inheriting a family business or working with your family in a joint endeav- 
our. As with other lunar locations, careers associated with food and items of 
domestic use are supported and should flourish. 

What problems may face you? As you move into the public arena here, 
life situations may begin to test you. Intimate and personal details of your life 
may go on public display, and it becomes harder to hide specific facts about 
yourself. No skeletons in your personal closet? Fine. If some old bones are 
rattling about, get ready to have them be seen in the light of day. On a more 
personal note, you will be surprised at how easy it is to express your emotions 
in public now. This can take the form of anything from an argument with a 
loved one to aromantic embrace. I say, forget about arguments and use your 
increased sensitivity and empathy with people at this location to win their sup- 
port, respect and their business too. 


MERCURY 

East. Speak out! I think, therefore I am! You will find the right words 
and others will listen. Like any good philosopher, you can now formulate the 
right questions and then answer them. You easily become identified with any 
endeavour requiring you to write, think or network. Want ajob on the local 
transportation system? You'll get it here. Careers in writing, science, medicine, 
education, in libraries or as a secretary, should all be well supported by this 
locale. 

On the plus side your thinking is as clear as it has ever been. You may 
find yourself taking on the newspaper's crossword puzzle for entertainment 
or borrowing books from the library on thinking skills. On the negative side 
you may become more restless and irritable, with your nerves getting frayed. 
It's from the need to talk, talk, talk or from rushing about too much. If you 
find this happening, do keep a serious side open in communicating and stay 
in touch with those you love or wish to learn from. At this location people think 
you look younger then you really are, something that is neither positive nor 
negative. 


West. Do you feel tongue-tied and inarticulate in public situations? Fear 


not as relief is in sight when you move to this location. There could be a shift 
now such that your own ideas, new opportunities and an appreciative audi- 


176 


ence all seem to manifest simultaneously, resulting in your becoming more 
effective in communicating with the public. This location is, therefore, an easy 
place to build bridges with others. Be a teacher here, as you are seen as a natural 
at it Specialist jobs, such as facilitator, dialogue leader, interviewer or even 
diplomat, are yours for the asking. This is a good location to take on cognitive 
studies and or to work with younger people. If you are accepting a position as 
a lawyer or negotiator or writer of business contracts, your career should flour- 
ish, as your mind is sharp and clear. 

If you have longed for a brainy spouse or partner, this could be a good 
location to try and meet him or her, since it favours making contacts with in- 
tellectual and/or better-educated types. A good place to start looking might 
be at the work place, with a co-worker or employee coming into your life in 
this capacity. 

What can go wrong here? Lots. The same strengths that this location 
offers can become a downfall. Communication with others can cause misun- 
derstandings, both with partners and in business situations. Your task is to be 
careful of the agreements you make now (including marriage agreements) and 
then stick to them! Carefully ponder the meanings and consequences of these 
agreements and acknowledge your commitment to fulfilling them before sign- 
ing on the dotted line. Also, your communication skills may disclose differ- 
ences in opinion that others have on topics that you hold dear. Maturity of 
intellect will be required such that you can absorb these differences in a spirit 
of dialogue rather than in debilitating argument or debate. 


North: Much to your surprise, you may find it convenient to invite a 
brother or sister to come and live and work with you now! Here, at this loca- 
tion you can finally bring together the library you have always wanted. And, 
it's simply a great place if you have always yearned to work from home. This 
is the perfect placement for tele-working. Set up your operation at home and 
sell from the Internet. The cosmos will support your efforts. If you have ar- 
rived already burnt out from a career or lifetime of hard work, this is a good 
place to take a sabbatical - to study and do research. Have a large room, as 
others will like meeting here. Expect lots of buzzy action around the home with 
your friends and family, but do keep aside some private time as this location 
encourages an inward assessment of personal goals and desires. 

As with most all positions in the north, an interest in real estate may 
develop here. Specific to this location, however, you may find interests in 
ecological and environmental pursuits develop along with the ability to write 
about them for others. Or you could successfully go back to school and get 
that degree in geology. 

Any dangers here? Sure: there is always the other side for us to deal with. 
At this location, problems can arise from becoming too subjective. Certainly 
it's important to have a location like this one for thinking about personal goals 


177 


and desires, but we must take care that this doesn't cut us off from other peo- 
ple's points of view, in turn leaving us intellectually isolated and fragmented. 
This location, therefore, unlike other angular mercurial ones, is not so great 
for making contracts or conducting serious negotiations. Keep track of your 
self-development here by noting if you are merely restless, moving from home 
to home, which could leave you on a treadmill going nowhere. Also note if 
your family communication is really good and nurturing, rather than bring- 
ing many disputes or disagreements. 


South: If you have been drawn to this location at a time when you must 
ponder long-term life goals (and determine if you are really fulfilling them), 
then be assured you are at the right place. If living the moment deeply has 
meant that long-range plans are cloudy , don't be surprised if you find the 
clarity here to begin seeing some as an unfolding possibility. Education is 
strongly favoured for you here and now. For this reason teachers will appear 
to guide you towards establishing a career or profession for yourself. Your 
organisational abilities are put to use as others begin to appreciate what you 
can do along those lines. Your ability to plan for the future and evolve strate- 
gies to gain objectives may become recognised, and you could become in- 
volved in political campaigns or even be asked to run for office yourself! In 
general you can communicate with people naturally and easily. An ability in 
writing speeches or dealing with communications, media, printing or publish- 
ing is indicated. It's a great location to become a teacher as well. All of these 
tasks will be fully supported for you by this location. 

Don't be surprised if the local paper wants to do a story on you and if 
finally you even get on TV. And don't be surprised if your phone bills are as- 
tronomical here and the mailbox is stuffed with correspondence. Get ready 
not to shudder if your morning incoming e-mails number in the hundreds as 
well. In fact youcould become known as the Johnny Appleseed? of informa- 
tion bits and bytes. Go ahead and communicate; you do it so well here. 

Let's have a look for some problem in all this: You may be tempted to 
turn to the dark side of the force, not squeamish about massaging the truth to 
gain your objectives. If this starts to happen, you run the risk of being exposed 
for untruthfulness. Warning bells should be going off if ambitions are over- 
whelming your principles. Stick to the truth and don't forget your heart in 
dealing with others, and this could be a very important location for you on 
the road of life itself. 


VENUS 
East. Moving to this location can bring sweetness into your life. The 
world looks good to you now and things seem more harmonious than before. 
Hi, good looking! It doesn't matter how you see yourself, others will find you 
attractive here and you discover how to create the look that appeals. A great 
location for nailing down that modelling job or to be an entertainer, artist or 


178 


a (social) party organiser. The cosmos won't support this location for hard work 
so easily; look to other locations if your profession requires this. I mean, you'd 
like to balance your life now with some hard work, but there just are so many 
opportunities for fun parties and romantic interludes that it's hard to really 
buckle down. The strength of this location can also be the problem. On the 
plus side it's easy to see life now with a happy outlook, so practise happiness 
and express beauty! Beauty and happiness are said to be our personal birth- 
rights so this is a great location to experience them. On the other hand, do 
remain alert that you are not becoming infatuated with your own beauty. Re- 
member it is the expression of the quality of beauty that makes you beautiful 
and not just your temporal form. 


West. A great place to visit if you are looking for love and partnership. 
T hope it's not in the middle of the ocean for you, but if it is, buy a boat If it's 
in the middle of the Sahara, rent a camel, but do check this location out. Jobs 
that require social skills and sensitive relating to others are yours for the ask- 
ing here. Your new-found sense of tact and diplomacy might get you into the 
entertainment field or public relations. If you have been insensitive to others 
in the past there may be a shift now as you become really concerned for their 
happiness. This in turn can become a healing situation for them and you too, 
Psychiatrist and shamanistic writer Olga Kharitidi* says “healing begets heal- 
ing", and perhaps it all can start here for you, with happiness as the way. Any 
downsides to this location? Well, it's not a great place if you want to be a hermit 
for a while or to live alone. And do watch out for partners who may take more 
than they give. 


North: Ifyou are female this could be the best location to express your 

earth Goddess side. You find it so very natural to be at one with Gaia here. If 
you are male, stay alert, you may meet that same, new-born Goddess at this 
location and learn from her. Are you ready and capable of recognising her? 
Male or female, this is the location to taste the nectar of a sweet and beautiful 
home and family life. From your home environment the cosmos will be sup- 
portive in establishing activities that are artistic, creative and entertaining. You 
will be able to create a home that is beautiful and comfortable and will want 
to entertain close friends in it. This location is probably the best of any to 
support a situation of emotional closeness with your parents. Expect happi- 
ness to come through them and perhaps even an inheritance. 
It's an ideal location to establish a small nature reserve and/or a meditative 
garden. It's difficult to imagine too many problems here, but you could find 
yourself overeating, especially rich and sweet foods. And the problem of lazi- 
ness could crop up such that you avoid projects requiring hard work. 


South: You are Mr Nice Guy here, or Ms Nice Gal. Change the world 
by loving humanity from this location, or at least tell someone you love them! 


179 


Relationships both professional and social all flow well and benefit you now. 
Venus-ruled jobs should fall into your lap: art, entertainment counselling, crafts, 
and so on. Here, perhaps for the first time, you experience a social or artistic 
ambition, and it's in tune with your potential, since you do have a good op- 
portunity to be recognised in these areas. Marriage to a partner who furthers 
your career is a possibility here. This is neither good nor bad by itself of course; 
it all depends on one's real intentions. Is it real love or might it be merely social 
climbing? 

This is a great location to combine a holiday with contemplation of your 
next step in a career. Go and enjoy. 


MARS 

East. You'll want to be a warrior here, so do it correctly, like Castenada: 
be ever alert, choose your battlefields and learn what ‘stalking’ means in the 
sense of a Toltec sorcerer. This is a great location to see the other side of your- 
self if you think you're usually listless or lazy. Physical (and ego) energy is high 
and abundant You may want to begin a program of jogging now or some other 
physical fitness regimen. It's a good place to compete in sports or to select as 
a training site. You will be asked to direct others in joint projects, and may be 
surprised at your self-motivation. Show the world what you can do and, at this 
location, the world might listen! Your ambitious side emerges and enables you 
to work harder now than others to achieve your aims. 

Is there a downside here? You'd better believe it - a lot can go wrong 
when Mars is involved. The same energy that makes you feel so robust here 
can very easily turn, at worst, to aggressiveness or to your becoming rather 
egotistical and headstrong. Here, more so than at many earth locations, your 
energy must be focused by intelligence and self-discipline. Do it well and you 
will achieve. If you become involved in fights or disregard the rights of oth- 
ers, the worse side is manifesting and your potential to achieve at this location 
is in jeopardy. 


West. "We want you on our team", others will plead. And do join in with 
them, as you will excel. The team can be of sports or business or social or- 
ganisation. Jobs leading Outward Bound groups or in policing or in the mili- 
tary will be yours for the asking. At the same time be wary: this location, per- 
haps more so than any other, can be conflict-prone for you, bringing what 
Jeff Jawer calls "serious battles" and "challenging situations". This can be a 
great location to bring some sensual experience back into your life. as both 
males and females will find a surprising amount of passion emerging in rela- 
tionships here as well as the desire to break the mould of any old patterns. 

So, what can we make of all of our possibilities here? Do get in shape, 
appreciate your ambitious and hard-working side and enjoy the satisfaction 
of high energy surging through your body. However, the need to think before 
you act will be critically important now. And do remain vigilant that you are 


180 


not running roughshod over the rights and feelings of others. This isn't a moral 
admonition as much as a way to ensure your happiness and growth at this 
location. 


North: If you are moving here to take up a position in such fields as 
mining or construction, this location will be very helpful. It's ideal if you run 
a boxing or weight-training or physical-fitness gym from home; but whatever, 
if a home type business or pursuit requires a lot of energy, it should work well 
here. You'll want to build your own home now or at least to keep renovating 
a rented one non-stop. 

That said, this place can entail problems that will require discipline and 
self understanding to avoid pitfalls. First of all, your professional life may be- 
come blocked, as your attention is really focused on your personal, not pub- 
lic, reality. Second, if you are not active and expressive enough, you may have 
to deal with your own anger and irritability. And lastly, with ego energies high, 
you could be involved in arguments with family members at home. Right here, 
at this location, you have the opportunity to examine and release pressures 
that have been a factor in your psychological makeup for some time. If these 
pressures seem to be building up and are causing you distress, perhaps this 
suggestion from the teaching traditions can help: try to contain the contradic- 
tions in your belly (the Hara), keep your heart loving and clear, and all the 
while use the dual energies as the fuel for self understanding. 


South: Life is work! No, I've not gone crazy, and you may well come to 
agree with me if you settle here for a spell. At this location your desire for fame 
and success matches your drive, ambition and general energetic ability to 
pursue a career. Your unbroken flow of initiative is such that it may even be 
surprising to you too. This is a great location for an athletic competition. Your 
ego energies and competitive juices are at full throttle. In the text of this book 
I recount how I made an Olympic team when the event was held near this 
location for me and how energetic and youthful I felt. 

Mars is less stressful here than on the other earth directions, but you 
will still be required to keep pushing your career to its limits to succeed. It's a 
great place, for example, to be a test pilot or racing driver. In a less dramatic 
mode you may pursue a career in the military or politics, engineering or man- 
agement. This location is favoured for working with metals and, in general, 
most kinds of hard work. It's especially auspicious to undertake tasks that 
require innovation and the pioneering spirit. Jobs will be offered that call for 
leadership, otherwise it's best to work hard but alone. Yes, this is a great loca- 
tion to get ahead and therefore feel good about yourself in the world. This type 
of experience can bring both psychological and material rewards, but since 
we are dealing with Mars, the problem of proper focus comes into play. You 
must direct your new-found energy to the tasks at hand and resist the tempta- 
tion to steam roll over others or to be unethical in getting to the top. Express- 


18] 


ing the wrong side of your force here through wrongdoing will provoke re- 
sistance in others and could leave your reputation in tatters. Keep your bal- 
ance at this location and you'll enjoy the rush and get ahead too. 


JUPITER 

East. Do the blues have you down? Are things a bit grim? Fear not as 
your world will begin to change at this location. Events and the people you 
meet now will present a brighter side of life. This creates a warm and optimis- 
tic flow towards others and the world in general. This in turn attracts a re- 
sponse that is equal in warmth, optimism and good will. Your self confidence 
grows, as it is supported by this location like almost nowhere else. Jobs in teach- 
ing, preaching or self-promotion will be yours for the asking. You should find 
the school here that provides the vocational training you have been longing 
for. Work for self-knowledge and share your insights with others. It will be natu- 
ral and beneficial to do this, since in this location you become more and more 
inclined toward following up interests in religion, philosophy, teaching and law. 

In addition to your waistline growing, your circle of friends will also 
expand here. You might meet people you wouldn't ordinarily expect to en- 
counter. Some of them may number among the rich or famous and powerful. 
Nice stuff, but do be alert that your new contacts really are part of a growth 
and learning process for yourself and that you aren't merely hob-nobbing. 

If things are going well at this location, you will mature with the inputs 
of philosophy and religious ideas. Your world view should be broadening and 
with it you will be gaining a new tolerance to the differences we see in our 
‘global village’. If you guard against the negative possibilities of self-indulgence, 
exaggerated self-importance and promising more than you can deliver, this can 
be a wonderful location for self-development, as you imbibe a nectar of faith, 
optimism and expanded vision.. 


West As the song goes, "I get by with a little help from my friends...". 
Tim Leary, nearing his death, said, "Whatever you do, do it with friends". On 
both professional and personal levels, partnerships will flourish and be sup- 
portive here. And I mean really supportive. Vacation here with a loved one 
and see how things get sweeter and problems can be worked out. Try out this 
location if you are longing to meet someone special. Perhaps not a guaranteed 
happening, but you are definitely increasing the odds in your favour. You pick 
out just the right counsellor or lawyer here too, if you need this type of help. 
The idea is that here you grow and develop mutually through your close con- 
tacts with other people. This makes the location ideal if you are a mediator, 
facilitator or negotiator. Other professions supported here will include law, sales 
and public relations. 

Marriage can go well here with a likelihood of it being a fortunate and 
long-lasting partnership. You might marry someone of wealth or notable so- 
cial standing. More important you and your partner are honest with each other 


182 


and perhaps share spiritual aspirations. You like and mutually support one 
another in addition to the love you feel. 

Is this location a fairy-tale place where your romantic dreams come true? 
Well, perhaps. You may find yourself taking too much for granted and expect- 
ing too much from others at the same time. It's as if the possibilities in your- 
self and others for mutual growth never quite unfold to the full potential of 
the situation. You may be naive and exposed to grandiose ideas that don't have 
substance. I wouldn't fret too much over these difficulties, however. Bring your 
capacity to give and receive to this location and experience it in fullness. I think 
you'll be happy you did. 


North: Oh, go ahead and put down roots! It felt like you belonged here 
right from the moment you arrived. Invest in property and watch its value rise. 
Don't be too surprised if you find a large house to live in, with family relation- 
ships better than they have ever been. If there have been problems relating 
to your parents, now is the time and this is the place for rapprochement with 
them. You'll come to see that within the limits of their understanding and 
abilities, they were simply doing their best in raising you; just as you may be 
doing for your children now. Keep open to the possibility of using your home 
for a centre of religious, philosophical, social or educational activities. In fact, 
now, be a philosopher yourself! It comes naturally, as Jeff Jawerdeclares, “All 
the knowledge of the universe flows through you here"®. 

This is a likely location to get the news that you have inherited land and 
propert from parents or family members. Careers in real estate, home construc- 
tion or renovation are well supported. Farming or businesses related to grow- 
ing food should also flourish. Remain alert to the need to make adjustments if 
outmoded religious beliefs are imposed on you by family members or if your 
home expenses are getting too heavy. But, overall, this should be a fine place 
for you, with the potential to get your act together, finally adopting a healthy 
lifestyle that expresses Truth, Love and Wholesomeness. 


South: Astrological studies show that a prominent placement of Jupiter 
on the MC either natally or by transit is very favourable for election to public 
office. Here, you have moved to a location that brings this same possibility; 
as a transit in space rather than time, so to speak. With that in mind you can 
expect to be elected to office, especially if running your campaign from this 
location. In addition to offering the prospect of prominence in the public 
sphere, this is a great location in which to achieve a high standing in business, 
academic or religious activities. Jobs in the publishing or travel industries are 
also supported. You really want to be honest reliable and benevolent now, and 
events (both inner and outer) allow it to happen. You are very willing to make 
the efforts necessary to achieve your aims; your ambition is strong, as is the 
thirst to study and learn. In other words, here, more likely than anywhere else, 


183 


you have the opportunity to become a pillar of society! What an interesting 
experience that can be, especially if your past has included spells as a revolution- 
ary or nihilist 

You'll want to expand your career or business now, which could mean 
travelling and meeting people from foreign cultures. That in itself is fine and 
even expected from this location, but the other side is that you must remain 
alert — perhaps cautious - to the possibility of over expansion, resulting in cash- 
flow or other types of 'overreach’ problems. Do your homework and plan 
things carefully during expansion, mixing this with the sense of optimism and 
ultimate success you feel here. With things going so well in the public sphere, 
do keep an eye on your relationships at home. If they are suffering, you are 
being given a warning that a reassessment or rebalancing of your priorities of 
public vs. private activities and attitudes is in order. 

Astrologer Rob Hand points out that Jupiter transits can represent ei- 
ther real growth or growth of fat”. At this location you have the opportunity to 
grow and mature both in your public persona as well as in the core of your 
being. Don't miss this opportunity. 


SATURN 

East "Stop the world, 1 want to get off" might be the plaintive cry now, 
as this location may bring you some difficulties and hardships at first. You will 
be required to finish up incomplete tasks and to get serious about discovering 
what is truly necessary for the future. If you've been travelling about and liv- 
ing life with a superficial or frivolous attitude, you'll become aware of it here, 
and it can be a shock. The good news is that here and now you can simplify 
and strengthen your life in a way that is critical to future growth. There will 
be no significant expansion at other earth locations if your structures have not 
been properly developed first at a location like this one. Jeff Jawer (see Ap- 
pendix 1) reminds us that patience, persistence and self discipline will be re- 
quired here and will be rewarded with ultimate self-respect and achievement. 
It's an important learning experience to be able to achieve prominence through 
your own merit and to know you have done it. It's a confidence and soul- 
booster all in one. 

Positions that require you to work seriously and hard with possible long 
hours will be supported. By ‘supported’, I mean that you find you have the 
will and endurance and focus to do them well. What a boon to have this back- 
ground support when you have to perform this way! 

I have much experience in living at or visiting easterly Saturn locations. 
This LS aspect is within 5 degrees for me in Moscow. Once I was invited to 
be a speaker at a Russian conference: Saturn's effects began immediately as I 
had to wait in line over 4 hours just to clear customs to get into the country. 
Then after my first talk I was stricken with a fever (I have Saturn in Aries, often 
associated with fevers) and was bed-ridden for 3 days. On the other hand, I 


184 


was well cared for by loving folk and had the experience of living in a Rus- 
sian flat in the heart of Moscow. Upon my recovery I returned to give my final 
talk and, as I heard later, was well appreciated by the audience. See the pattern? 

At two major turning points in my life, unbeknown to me, I lived at east- 
erly Saturn LS locations. The first one was in Ankara, Turkey, where I was 
unable to be the ‘swinging single’ I would have wished to be. Left with no 
option to follow those energies, ] was forced inward to more serious activities 
of search and study - resulting in learning that was to become the backbone 
of my pursuits for the next two decades of my life. Later, for a period of some 
months, I lived in Jerusalem, a location that also has an easterly LS Saturn for 
me. Here, though short of money and comforts, | was able to focus on my 
pursuits, partaking of the three great traditions centred there of Judaism, Chris- 
tianity and Islam, learning the power of ritual observance for the first time in 
my life. This experience was to prove invaluable to me when years later my 
gaze turned eastward to include India and its traditions. 

Limitations at this location will bring a sense of realism concerning the 
discipline you need to master your world. The words of German philosopher 
Nietzche (1844-1900) sum up this location at its most difficult: "That which does 
not kill us makes us stronger". But don't worry, things shouldn't get that dif- 
ficult, and the reward of personal accomplishment awaits you here if you can 
stay focused on the issues. Your personal affirmation for this location could be, 
"Regardless of my duties, I can and will lighten up and enjoy". 


West. Have you escaped so far from relationships that carry responsi- 
bilities? Well, here you will have to pay much more attention to them and work 
carefully, avoiding shortcuts in your dealings with others. This is a great loca- 
tion if you are establishing a business partnership or need to experience what 
a serious commitment to another is all about. Expect to have to build on such 
partnerships, taking on responsibility and exercising discipline. This is great 
for character building but could leave you feeling short changed for warmth 
and love. Jobs or family situations that require you to care for others are ideal 
here, as you have the focus to get the job done. Partners who are mature and 
reliable can appear for you as well. Their help can be the beginning of the road 
to success, as the firm and reliable mutual support between you is just what is 
needed to get ahead. Professions such as law, business organisation, management 
and anything to do with formulating contracts will be highly supported here. 

If you are of mature years and come to this location without a spouse, 
you may well marry the career-oriented partner you long for. Your ability to 
work hard and conscientiously will naturally match his or her ability. Moving 
here with a spouse can reveal lots of issues that will take the relationship one 
way or the other - strengthening it or breaking it up: just don't expect the 
relationship to remain the same. 

If it all goes wrong you'll become negative in relationships. Immediate 


185 


action will then be required, as the relationship dynamic, central to this loca- 
tion, must be dealt with before things spiral out of control. Your birthright here, 
however, is to find mature and stable partnerships. The long-haul is supported 
now, so do move in that direction and learn about the positive experience of 
commitment. Your personal affirmation for this location could be "I can and 
will radiate warmth and love in my relationships". 


North: There is good news here if your career involves activities cen- 
tred around real estate, building trades, contracting, farming and/or the manu- 
facture of domestic products. The bad news? Most people don't find this an 
easy place to live. It often denotes that you will be required to shoulder heavy 
home or family responsibilities. But then again, this location supports you in 
successfully carrying those responsibilities through. This is an important dy- 
namic to come to see about the earth’s various locations for us. At a given 
location we are faced with issues demanding our involvement and at the same 
time the local situation provides what we need to respond successfully. For 
example, one client found this location ideal to provide a proper home envi- 
ronment for her handicapped daughter. In addition to caring for her daugh- 
ter she worked hard from home, building a good reputation as a journalist after 
years of effort In fulfilling her life responsibilities here, she developed strength 
of character and a level of self-respect that brought inner peace. She told me 
she wouldn't have wanted to live anywhere else. 

This is the best location to 'get away from it all’ and have a serious 
rethink of what your life is all about overcoming the past and planning to begin 
anew. It is the ideal place to be a hermit or take a secluded retreat. On the other 
hand, as already stated, family issues and deep felt insecurities can make day- 
to-day life difficult. Your personal affirmation for this location could be "I can 
and will radiate warmth and love in my home and family life". 


South: There is no better location if your career requires focused effort, 
possible long hours and careful planning. This type of effort will be rewarded, 
whereas shortcuts or sloppy work will come back to haunt you. One client 
for example, instinctively picked out this location to be ajunior doctor at a 
hospital where long hours and responsibility were required. His efforts there 
were rewarded with solid professional growth and finally recognition. Employ- 
ment in management or financial planning should be yours for the asking. And 
you will be appreciated, as a talent for farsighted managerial ability seems to 
manifest naturally here. You may even be able to attain high position and 
wealth at this location. You are seen as a leader who is able to provide stabil- 
ity to a situation and guide organisational growth along traditional lines. 

Along with increased responsibility at this location, you will be able to 
make decisions and act upon them. This is no small matter, as you now have 
the opportunity to experience the magic of what the German philosopher 
Goethe (1749-1832) called "Decision Power". He wrote, "The moment one 


186 


definitely commits oneself, then providence moves too. All sorts of things occur 
to help one that would not otherwise have occurred. A whole stream of events 
issues from the decision, raising in one's favour all manner of events and 
meetings and material assistance which no man would have dreamed would 
come his way." 

A difficult consequence of this location is its ‘karmic’ implications. A 
steep fall from power awaits if you are tempted to compromise your princi- 
ples for the sake of ambition. Transiting Saturn crossed President Nixon's south 
point (and Midheaven) within days of the Watergate break-in that he had au- 
thorised. At this location you are moving to this situation in space rather than 
in time! Another problem here could be the slow progress or obstacles faced 
in the rise to prominence. If you do feel this frustration, dig in deeper to ac- 
complish your aims, as Saturn will support your patience and diligence. Your 
personal affirmation for this location could be "I can and will express the joy- 
ous elements of my public role." 


URANUS 

East. You've heard about it, you've read about it, you may have even 
felt its call, but, ready or not, here you can do it: reinvent yourself! If you have 
longed for more originality in your life, more excitement, and to break away 
from old patterns, this is the location to experience this. Of course, you should 
get ready for feeling weird and having life become more like a roller coaster. 
It will be easy to give yourself a new look and you may even wish to experi- 
ment with a more open sexuality here. You will meet and attract friends who 
are radically different from the ones you used to have. Yes, they will be more 
exciting and original, but don't expect rock-solid reliability from them, either. 
This location favours individuality which can make long-standing relationships 
problematical. You'll need freedom and your partner will have to understand 
this, hopefully allowing you to throw out many of the spoken or unspoken rules 
surrounding the relationship. This is a great location to study astrology or other 
systems that move you toward liberation and self-understanding. You will come 
into contact with groups that forward human rights in many forms. If any such 
groups need a spokesperson, the task is yours for the asking. Be aware that you 
will have quite a bit of restless energy here, so use it consciously. In an exam- 
ple in the text, I noted that feminist Simone de Beauvoir accomplished her 
radical ground-breaking work with this placement at her home in Paris, France. 


West. Even though you may see yourself as a relatively logical and 
evenly balanced type of person, at this location you will have a dramatic im- 
pact on the people you meet. As Jeff Jawer writes, "...people may find you 
magnetic and brilliant or weird and strange"*. Suddenly you could be a re- 
former or what Tim Leary called a 'change agent”, waking folk up and chal- 
lenging them to see their rigid patterns (others may simply see you as a trou- 
blemaker however). If your relationships have been ‘ho-hum’ and in arut get 


187 


ready to have this part of your reality turned upside down. The good news? 
You will have personal break-throughs and fresh insights coming through and 
because of others. The bad news? Marriage or other committed relationships 
can suffer here and things can get hectic. 

This is a great location to be an investigative reporter or gossip column- 
ist or even a social scientist studying the new order of things. Your insights about 
the new social combinations and permutations developing in the community 
are excellent because you are living them. In business matters this is a favour- 
able location to collaborate with others on unique telecommunications or IT 
projects. The more unique and far-out, the better. You and your colleagues 
might become very successful selling your product/idea for much money. Your 
personal affirmation at this location could be "I will remain centred in that 
which is permanent and eternal though I live in dynamic and creative change". 


North: Tf you have ever felt uneasy that there are truths, patterns or 
ghosts of seasons past that you still haven't recognised consciously, vou have 
come to the right location! Here is a place, as Jeff Jawer says’, “..for breaking 
of the past, letting go of old patterns and discovering new ways to live your 
life". This augers well, but there are problems too. A home or family life will 
be difficult here, as family requirements seem to clash with your individual 
needs and attitudes. It’s hard to put down roots and take on responsibilities, 
as events - and your own yearnings - require you to be free to express your 
new inner realisations. This is an advantageous location to take on unique, non- 
typical and non-traditional endeavours from your home base. This may be the 
best strategy for processing the resdess and rebellious energy you feel here. 
Activities in telecommunications or Information Technology from your home 
would be ideal. Take care not to become addicted to long hours surfing the 
Net alone and a seeming eccentric genius in the eyes of others. You really like 
the idea of being able to live life free of social pressure here. Finally, you will 
be able to establish yourself as a ‘lifestyle pioneer’, though don't be disap- 
pointed if others see you as merely eccentric. Whatever you do here, from 
working with computers to unisex haircutting, remain flexible to the onrush 
of events and situations in your life. Your personal affirmation for this loca- 
tion could be "I will remain as thoughtful as possible about the new inputs into 
my life, consciously integrating them to create a new and better me". 


South: If you have been wishing to either kick-start or improve your 
career in science, technology, the occult or even in astrology, then this loca- 
tion is mother earth's helpful response. Additionally, being self-employed or 
somewhat independent in your career pursuits will also be favourable here. 
The point is, opportunities to establish yourself along these lines will seem to 
manifest miraculously, like a lightning bolt out of the blue'’. On the other hand, 
clinging to a career that is locking you into an autocratic structure is going to 
become a big problem: it simply won't hold up. Inwardly you will begin to 


188 


rebel against a professional environment that doesn't give you the freedom you 
now need, and outwardly others will begin to challenge your position. So be 
alert and ready for change. Expect the unexpected and be ready to flow with 
it - life as Tai Chi. Jobs at this location that require originality and some risk 
taking will be yours for the asking. If you are drawn to radical or revolution- 
ary groups of any form (social or political or human change), others may ask 
you to lead them. And if you lead with originality as your personal beacon, 
you should be fine. Become the lightning bolt rather than the victim who is 
struck by it! Your personal affirmation for this location could be "In the midst 
of changing circumstances, I will remain conscious of what I am doing in the 
world, making the necessary changes in order to experience a new life". 


NEPTUNE 

East. Are you weary of everyday reality? Do you feel ground down by 
the burden of your practical problems? You've come to the right place, as here 
you can turn toward nurturing your life's dreams. There is a saying from the 
East that is pertinent for this location: "A knife is neither good nor bad, but 
he who grasps it by the blade is surely in error". The possibility of an errone- 
ous grasping of situations and their meanings is a real issue at this location. 
Your strengths here can also become downfalls if maturity and conscious 
awareness are not maintained. What are some of these strengths, which also 
require you to remain master of your ship of self? Well, first of all, your sen- 
sitivity seems to increase dramatically at this location. Your psyche may be 
flooded with new impressions and sensations. This can help to draw you like 
a magnet to new creative aspects of yourself as well as to more spiritual or 
psychic influences, some of which may carry you to 'wondrous visions and holy 
truths''”. Another plus here is that your creative imagination becomes more 
active than you have experienced before. This can be ideal for creative projects 
of all kinds, with those in film, photography, theatre or the fine arts and crafts 
perhaps being most favoured. Ideas sensed or perceived here can become the 
stuff of significant creative projects either at this location or at another place 
and time. Whenever these ideas are brought to fruition, this location will have 
been the birthplace for the original creative insight. 

A good strategy in using the energy of this location could be to become 
active helping others, perhaps in a caring organisation. And yes, you will enjoy 
films as never before. Their story lines now speak to you direcdy. Do take walks 
by the sea (if possible), allowing its vastness and beauty to inspire you. You 
have areal opportunity now to answer the famous question, "Who am I?" posi- 
tively, as your spiritual world is ever present If the sensitivities of this loca- 
tion begin to make you fearful, take the teaching of Sufi Sheikh Muzaffer of 
Istanbul’? to heart. Questioning the validity of doubting itself, he taught his stu- 
dents, "Doubt your doubts!". 


189 


West. Have you ever felt baffled by your partner's changing attitudes 
toward you? Well, here is a location that will open many new doors to your 
perceptions about this. As with the other placements of Neptune in the earth's 
cardinal directions, you will find a rush of sensitivity to and in yourself. This 
time the sensitivity centres on the attitudes, intentions, desires and motivations 
of not only your partners but also the public at large.’This is a wonderful place- 
ment if you have to judge artistic and creative trends in the literary field or in 
fashion or film or the TV industry. It might even make you a good psychic 
healer or even a karmic or intuitive astrologer'*. 

Another strong possibility for you here is to meet and establish a spir- 
itually based relationship either with a guru type or with someone you love. 
In Indian scriptures it is stated that one should consider one's marriage part- 
ner to be a physical manifestation of the divine. Some scriptures state that the 
love of one's spouse, when rightly comprehended, is an essential part of the 
process of enlightenment or moving toward the realisation of the Self*. In his 
corresponding Neptune interpretation for ACG, Jeff Jawersays it direcdy: "The 
place where you can marry God. It is the projection of the God principle on 
a partner". Alas, one must face the possibility of less happy outcomes at this 
location as well. The key to success here is discernment to a high degree. 
Without it, relationships don't become a source of spiritual uplift but rather 
cause great disappointment. Your trust in others becomes shattered as partner- 
ships and legal situations become problems, with others taking advantage of 
you. You yearn for high standards from your partners here, and it's all too easy 
to refuse to see things as they really are. What to do? Perhaps it's best to sur- 
render to Neptune's higher requirements for spiritual uplift at this location. This 
necessitates that you maintain a high quality in your true intentions and then 
to act in accordance with them. And remember that your partnerships will 
require clarity in communication, clear boundaries and most of all mutual 
respect without undercurrents of manipulation. In summary, the positive side 
of this location is that the opportunity to experience "right relationship" may 
be offered to you here. Are you ready for it? 


North: With a bit of luck, at this location you will find something you 
may not have ever experienced before; your spiritual home! This home might 
be a house or the wider environment of nature around you. The Neptunian 
sensitivities of this location give you a mystical attunement, a bonding link be- 
tween your immediate environment of great nature and what seems to be the 
core of your being. At this place your body can sense, taste and feel, positively 
vibrating, the possibility of a rebirth to a higher level of refinement'®. Once 
again with Neptune in a cardinal direction, your best strategy may be to sur- 
render to its highest possibilities and to be vigilant to this placements pitfalls. 
Ponder your spiritual ideals. Strive to create a home that is quiet, meditative 
and peaceful, respecting those ideals. Yes, moving to a monastery or ashram 


190 


might tempt you and would be supported here. Pursuing artistic and creative 
endeavours from your home is very favourable. Photography in or of your 
environment is strongly supported. Psychic activities will be all too easy and 
only positive for you if balanced with the totality of your spiritual understand- 
ing. Keep in mind that spirit beings who contact you here also are evolving 
such that their limited vistas might not represent deep levels of cosmic under- 
standing. 

Thinking in terms of putting down roots at this location will be difficult 
because things seem so magical and ethereal that such considerations are 
unfocused and far from your immediate considerations. Your inner life will be 
so filled now that career concerns will also be difficult to keep in focus, unless 
perhaps you work in a caring profession, a very creative artistic job or at least 
in a work site located near the sea. 

So, what are the indications that you are not achieving your best 
Neptunian possibilities at this location? You may live in a haunted house! 
Family relations may become confused and/or deceptive, with disturbing 
undertones that are causing you to suffer. Certainly don’t ignore your mort- 
gage or your partner's sexual needs. Always read the fine print of your lease 
or property deed and never succumb to the temptation of being a drug-dealer 
from your home, or you may end up in a secluded institution called jail! There 
is an old saying about our being naked when we are born into this world and 
also when we leave it Therefore what we really have is what is inside us. At this 
location you can develop inner being, your real treasure and true security. 


South: Have you usually thought that you had a clear idea of what you 
wanted to do or accomplish in life? If so, this location will cause you to be- 
come less than certain. And ‘less than certain’ will be experienced as an un- 
expected but urgent need to reassess your life goals. As with the other 
Neptunian placements, you will experience an onrush of sensitivity, this time 
about your public life and role. This sensitivity can cause confusion but can 
also put you in touch with spiritual intuitions of the highest degree. Yes, once 
again, when Neptune calls the shots, you must use it or lose it as far as your 
spiritual growth potential and very sanity are concerned! On the positive side 
you will meet people here and be given opportunities to establish yourself in 
new areas. Business itself is not excluded if it is creative and holds to humani- 
tarian principals, but most directly favoured are opportunities for musicians, 
actors, painters, photographers, movie makers, psychologists, and various 
occult pastimes. You might become a guru type here, especially if you teach 
or exemplify an ego-emptying philosophy”. Work that you might do for oth. 
ers in hospitals or charities is strongly supported at this location as well. It is 
important to explore all of your new opportunities, having the courage to follow 
through on them even if they are uncertain for you. As with Neptune in the 
north discussed above, you must “doubt your doubts" if feelings of unworthi- 


191 


ness arise. The point is that it will become critical for you at this location to 
feel right about your livelihood, no ifs, ands or buts. That's simply the way 
Neptune's influence works. If you try and buck this, then all those other 
Neptunian type things happen like scandal and erosion of your power and 
capacities at work. For example, Richard Nixon had Neptune exactly south 
of Washington, DC, and he paid the price there for his attempts at underhand- 
edness'®. 

Wherever we may reside, at this time we are all feeling the need to 
unfold a vision of a new self and a new world for ourselves. The good news is 
that your personal vision waits for you to reach out to it at this location. So 
make that special effort and connect with it, possibly leading to the biggest next 
step that you will experience for many years. 

Though you may become inspired here, Neptune can leave you feel- 
ing sluggish when it comes to worldly action Therefore, great advice for this 
location can be found in one of Goethe's couplets: “Whatever you can do, 
or dream you can, begin it! Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Be- 
gin it now!" 


PLUTO 

East. Moving to or travelling through an earth location where you have 
Pluto angular (a cardinal direction on your relocated Local Space chart) is going 
to be profound. You will live life very fully and intensely now. That intensity 
can range from a sober assessment of your ability (or inability) to transform 
yourself, to the experience ofa total upheaval and consequent change in your 
life. Events push you to the limit so you can see what really is true about your- 
self. The point to remember is that the things happening now, though possi- 
bly concentrated or extreme, are necessary for your growth, and that anything 
falling away in your life will clear the space for a new flower in the future. Jim 
Lewis said, "Pluto burns the fields for a new planting"!’. 

With Pluto in the east you will be able to bring a new kind of micro- 
scopic focus into your life. You seem to be able to zoom in on yourself and 
others in a way that can make you and them quite uncomfortable. At its most 
powerful, you begin to see reality as energy! This ability is described as a de- 
velopmental necessity by the Yaqui sorcerer Don Juan’’. You now have a kind 
of x-ray vision of the subtle forces working around yourself and others. This 
perception is different than that found at locations with Uranus or Neptune 
on the east because you find that here, with Pluto, you can consciously use your 
x-ray type insights to, at best regenerate yourself and at worst to manipulate 
others. At this location you have the willpower and endurance to carry out your 
regeneration or manipulations. The key is to be aware of these powers, alert 
not to pursue selfish activities that fly in the face of your possible redemption 
and spiritual development. Your sensitivities may make you most comfortable 
away from others. Whatever you do, secretive or underground work is fa- 


192 


voured. You'll be great as a private detective, a miner or a scientist specialis- 
ing in atomic projects. The location is very supportive of self-empowerment 
work as in the teachings of Don Juan”! or the "work on yourselP as proposed 
by the teacher Georg Gurdjieff (1872-1949). 


West. Here your x-ray vision turns to a profound intuitive ability to read 
the motivations and attitudes of others, both personal partners and society at 
large. As with Pluto in all positions, you will find a big range of possible out- 
comes. The choice is always ours to make. Here you have an opportunity to 
create a real and deep dynamic of constructive co-operation with others, or 
you will become involved in titanic and energy-draining struggles with them. 
What is for sure, however, is that you will meet powerful partners here, per- 
haps resulting in drastic changes in your life. If you are open to the possibili- 
ties of transformation - which means a give and take in complete honesty - 
things can go well, with new depths being realised. Otherwise you will suffer 
struggles of 'dominate or be dominated’. As Jeff Jawer says of this configura- 
tion, "Pluto is a furnace and here it's the furnace of partnership". Take care 
with business relationships, as power plays can result in lawsuits. Your intui- 
tive insights will support you admirably here if you are a lawyer, judge or psy- 
chologist Or you may find a psychiatrist or lawyer or another in a professional 
capacity who can really help you to see the blocks to living the way you would 
like. As Pluto is not completely comfortable in the west, you will have to make 
specific and positive efforts to achieve co-operative and transformative results. 
Or as Steve Cozzi advises, "Psychological preparation, like speaking softly and 
carrying a big stick, is very appropriate in this place"’’. If you are strong and 
are able to face what can be painful truths in relationship, then new partner- 
ships and understandings will be your reward at this location. 


North: 1 find it useful to see Pluto's various positions in the cardinal Earth 
directions as synonymous with the Greek myth of the Hero's Journey. It goes 
like this: starting with Pluto in the east extreme events cause a serious upheaval 
and subsequent loss for our hero. Shattered and without an idea of what to do, 
our hero seeks out a powerful counsellor for help and advice. This powerful 
partner is symbolised by Pluto in the west. The powerful ally lays out a plan 
of action and provides our hero with one or more magical devices to help in 
what will be a dangerous journey. Armed with nothing more than his (her) own 
wits and few magical boons from the ally, our hero embarks on nothing less 
than a journey to the underworld, where he (she) will confront dangerous 
archetypal elements representing both the devils of society and his (her) own 
repressed side. The goal seems to be to recover what was lost but it's really 
about the redemption of our hero in the Plutonian furnace of his/her own 
psychological underworld. This underworld journey is Pluto in the north!” If 
our hero is successful, using absolutely all of the skills and magical tricks avail- 


193 


able to reclaim that which was lost, he (she) returns to the world of daylight to 
inform and show others the possibility of redemption and the potentiality of 
rising again, reborn from the ashes of a formerly dead-end life. This return is 
Pluto in the south (the MH or top of the ecliptic chart), with the cycle of death 
and rebirth completed. 

It is doubtful that your stay at this location will actually require you to 
descend into a Greek mythological underworld, so what might be expected? 
Events may require that you regenerate your family life, including relations 
with your parents. If you don't, you'll find yourself in challenges and battles 
with them. Skeletons in the family closet and any dark secrets about yourself 
are likely to be exposed, a painful but necessary process if you are ever to be 
freed from them. Watch out for property transactions here, as they may be- 
come a cause for a great power struggle. Any suppressed feelings will pop out 
at you as health issues, in the form of such things as skin rashes. This is one of 
the few locations where you can favourably express the energy with occult 
activity in your home. It's an absolutely marvellous location for home study 
in geology, ecology or conservation. If possible, mine Uranium ore! The lo- 
cation is thought to heighten abilities in dowsing and any activity that focuses 
on what is underground. So, if you are applying for the job of an undertaker, 
it's yours for the asking here. 


South: Whether or not you have previously done any personal home- 
work exploring your psychological basement and purifying your deepest de- 
sires (as described above), at this location those desires will be expressed 
through your profession. Suddenly you are able to bring the Plutonian x-ray 
vision, with its concomitant intuitive, occult powers, to bear, influencing peo- 
ple in power. The question and challenge here will now revolve around the 
issues of your life direction. Where are you going? What are you doing? How 
are you going about it?” If you are on the right track, you can become a 
powerful agent of change for the better of all. You might undertake a spiritual 
mission that could regenerate elements of society. You may make an impact 
by being good at politics or other forms of public work, research, financial 
management, physics and/or an intuitive type of astrology. More unusual tal- 
ents such as healing, clairvoyance or prophes can come to the fore. The issue 
is really one of your integrity. As Cozzi states it, "In this locality (both) the 
transforming and corrupting influences of power await you"*°, You will be able 
to judge which track you are taking (transformation or corruption) by the re- 
actions you experience here. If you become engaged in power struggles, or 
are being exposed by others, if you seem to lurch from one professional up- 
heaval to another, your warning bells must ring loudly and require an urgent 
assessment of your methods of achieving success. Pluto locations will simply 
not allow you to violate any rules about the misuse of power. It appears to give 
you that power here just for that reason, offering you the choice to use it or 
abuse it”. At this location, you'll feel the need to change and transform, taking 


194 


control of things around you,. But doing this with dictatorial tendencies and 
selfish personal agendas may cause you lots of woe. Take care! 


NOTES 

1. Yoga Vasista. 

2. "Narrative" is used here in the sense of the story we see as our personal history. 
3. The story of Johnny Appleseed is from American folklore. He travelled the length 
and breadth of the eastern part of the USA, scattering apple seeds taken from his cloth 
sack. The story attributes the great number apple trees in that part of America to him. 
4. Entering the Circle, by Olga Kharitidi, Thorsens, 1997. 

5. See Jeff's deliniations in Appendix 1. 

6. ibid. 

7. Planets in Transit, by Rob Hand, Para Research, 1976. 

8. See Jeff’sdeliniations in Appendix 1. 

9. Flashbacks, by Timothy Leary, 1983, Tatcher/Putman Books. 

10. See Jeff's deliniations in Appendix 1. 

11. It is interesting to note that in a cosmological system based on the Samkhya phi- 
losophy, Uranus represents the (lightening) bolt of inspiration from spirit conscious- 
ness (Chaitanya) to one's intellect (Buddhi). Hopefully this can be integrated by one's 
ego (Ahamkar) to bring forth inspired action rather than merely unintegrated, cranky 
and restless behaviour. 


12. See Jeff's deliniations in Appendix 1. 


13. Halveti order. Their practice seems to centre on the use of “Zykr”, a chanted 
mantra. 


14. The great astrologer Dane Rudhyar felt that Neptune was a more apt ruler of as- 
trology than Uranus. 


15. Brihadaranyaka Upanishad: " Verily, it is not for the sake of the husband that the 
husband is dear, but for the sake of the Self. And it is not for the sake of the wife that 
the wife is dear, but for the sake of the Self..... And when the Selfhas been seen, when 
the Self has been heard, when the Self has been reflected upon, and when the Self has 
been known, then everything is known." 


195 


16. A Hassidic song, performed by the late Rabbi Shlomo Carlebach, sums up your 
highest possibilities here. It goes, "Return again, return again, return to the land of 
your soul. Return to who you are, return to what you are, return to where your born 
and be born again ... Return again, return again, return to the land of your soul..." 


17. The Hassidic tradition has a very elegant way of approaching this. In it,one 'turns'. 

Turning is a process where the ego is neither suppressed or emptied. Rather, one's 
ego is turned away from the normal promptings of body and mind to those of a higher 
order as its guiding light. 


18. Notice that would be the same as NE on the MH fine of his ACG map. See page 
164 of The Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps, by Lewis and Guttman, Llewellyn Publi- 
cations. US presidents Harry Truman and Dwight Eisenhower were much more for- 
tunate with Jupiter exacdy South for each of them at Washington, D.C. 


19. ACG booklet that comes with ‘official’ ACG maps.Jim Lewis, 1976. 


20. See the various works of Carlos Castanada about the technique of 'seeing'. For 
example, from "Uno Mismo”, an Argentine magazine, Feb. 1997, Castanada states, 
"Shamans like Don Juan assert that all human beings have the capacity to see energy 
direcdy as it flows in the universe.... Shamans maintain that perception is assembled 
at this point (the assemblage point); that the energy that flows in the universe is trans- 
formed here into sensory data, and that the sensory data is later interpreted, giving as 
a result the world of everyday life.... The pragmatic value of perceiving energy direcdy 
as it flows in the universe for a man of the 21* century or a man of the 1* century is 
the same. It allows him to enlarge the limits of his perception and to use this enhance- 
ment within his realm.." 


21. Astrologers will note the Plutonian characteristics of DonJuan as described by 
Castanada also in the interview in "Uno Mismo", Feb. 1997. Castanada says, "Shamans 
like Don Juan are essentially practical. For them there only exists a predatory universe 
in which intelligence or awareness is the product of life and death challenges. ...(Don 
Juan) said that in order to navigate into the unknown like a shaman does, one needs 
unlimited pragmatism, boundless sobriety and guts of steel". 


22. "One of the strongest motives for the wish to work on yourself is the realisation 
that you may die at any moment — only you must first realise this". Quote of a Gurdjieff 
aphorism taken from the wall of the study house at the Chateau du Prieure at 
Fontainebleau. Those wishing to explore where the contemporary Gurdjieff work has 
led via the inputs of John Bennett, Anthony Blake and physicist David Bohm (Dia- 
logue) are referred to Blake's Web site, The DuVersity, http://duversity.org/ 


23. Steve Cozzi, Planets in Locality, 1988, Llewellyn Publications. 
24. The Greeks called Pluto "Hades, the god ofthe Underworld". For a comprehen- 


sive introduction to mythological Pluto (and all the astrological parameters), see Mythic 
Astrology, by Guttman & Johnson, 1993, Llewellyn Publications. 


196 


25. These questions are a direct quote from the insights of noted astrologer Rob Hand. 
Refer to his classic work Planets in Transit, Para research, 1976, the section on Pluto 
conjunct Midheaven. 


26. Steve Cozzi, Planets in Locality, 1988, Llewellyn Publications. 
27. 1 believe that Jim Lewis was overly fearful of this position in his writings on ACG 
lines. His choice for you at this type of location isn't a very optimistic one: either "des- 


potism or extreme antisociality". See the booklet accompanying official ACG maps, 
Astro*Carto*Graphy, 1976, page 27. 


197 


APPENDIX THREE 


PLANETARY LINES IN YOUR HOUSE 


by Angel Thompson 


The Sun 
The Sun is the light of the chart and here is where your ego is strongest - where 
vision, honor, and prestige are obvious. Objects placed on this line seem im- 
portant or distinguished in some way: they are noticed and personalised. Colors 
associated with the Sun are gold, bright yellow and orange. Its shape is round. 
In the house, the Sun line is a good place to display pictures of your- 
self, awards, trophies, certificates, or objects that are particularly significant for 
you. The temperature of the Sun is very hot and dry, making it an ideal line 
upon which to dry laundry or dehydrate herbs. It is also a good line for sun 
rooms, sportsrooms, playrooms, card rooms, ovens, fireplaces, rooms where 
tools, knives or chemicals are stored and for places holding coin collections, 
gold, jewelry, ornaments, or objects that give pleasure. The Sun also rules all 
the lights in the house. You will feel more powerful and ‘at home’ on your Sun 
line. 


The Moon 

The Moon rules sense perceptions, nurturing and mothering skills. Here is 
where you are most sensitive and vulnerable. Objects placed on the Moon fine 
tend to be memorable, sentimental or in some way connected to home, fam- 
ily, or country. The Moon line is a popular place, racing with the pulse of 
humanity, good for placement of the family bulletin board. Things change and 
are impermanent on this line (like cut flowers). Its cool, watery nature is pas- 
sive and gentle, making it a very positive place for plants and animals. Its shape 
is curved, waved or concave and its colors are silvery and pale blue. 

In the house, it rules places where cleaning supplies or other fluids are 
stored as well as nurseries, both for plants and babies, cradles, gardens, alcoves, 
closets, cupboards, pools of water, the family room, bathroom, laundry room, 
the kitchen and the bedroom. If you want to be more sensitive, sleep on your 
Moon line and you'll have great dreams. 


199 


Mercury 

Mercury is a neutral planet and is influenced by whatever it's near. It is a 
youthful line where events happen quickly. Communication is a major focus 
on a Mercury line, making it a good place to store your papers or records. 
However small worries can become big problems here with a tendency to over- 
exaggerate the mundane aspects of life, so don't put your bills on this line. It's 
agood place to do your mental work, as words have great power. Symbols and 
ideas flow easily along a Mercury line, making it an ideal place for your type- 
writer, telephone or computer. Mercury is associated with thin lines, clear 
objects and is fluid and flexible, like quicksilver. Its colors range from pale 
orange through violet silvery blue and crystal. 

In the house it rules the chimney, corridors, ducts, gutters, hallways, 
stairways, steps, pipes and conduits such as the electric, gas and water lines, 
as well as children's rooms, libraries and other places of communication. You 
are apt to feel young and lively on a Mercury line. 


Venus 

Venus represents affection, aesthetics and moods. Here is where sensations, 
values and indulgences are highlighted. A ‘ladies line’, Venus grants physical 
beauty and charm to objects and people. Memories give pleasure and objects 
are admired for their worth or attractiveness. A Venus line is a popular line, 
good for social activities, friendly feelings, sweet perfume and designer clothes. 
It is also a line that feeds addictions to sex, money, food or drugs. Venus lines 
are stricdy Mae West curves, but they tend to be moist damp or cloudy. Colors 
associated with Venus are bright green, emerald, aquamarine, yellow, copper 
and brass. 

In the house, Venus rules places where money or other valuables are 
stored, flower gardens, dressing rooms, art studios, drawing rooms, window, 
rugs, cosmetics, costumes, fine art and basic food storage. A Venus line is where 
you indulge yourself, so be sure not to keep the Godiva chocolates there. 


Mars 
Mars represents physical strength and the ability to assert yourself. A Mars line 
energizes all of life's activities. Relationships seem competitive and life moves 
faster on this ‘man’s line’, making it a good place for your stationary bike or 
that special calendar of hunks’. Mars is hot and dry and its color is red or fiery. 
It rules pointed objects like knives and swords and in the house it rules places 
where machines, tools and knives are kept However Mars is an impulsive fine, 
so even though Mars rules firearms it’s not a good place to keep your Colt 45. 
Mars in the house rules fireplaces, candles, stoves, ovens and other 
places where fire is used. A word of caution. Fires may start on a Mars line, so 
don't store chemicals, paints or other flammable materials unless there is good 
ventilation. You feel strong and 'manly’ on a Mars line. 


Jupiter 
Jupiter is the planet of expansion and good luck and is said to bring success, 
social acceptance, rich and powerful people, status and conformity. It is asso 
ciated with publishing, law, politics, religion, sports and gambling. Objects 
placed on the Jupiter line may appear larger than life, prestigious, or even a 
bit pretentious, making it a good place for your tiara, pictures of you and 
important people, or for displaying your Oscar. Jupiter rules large, full objects 
like flags and dressers. Its colors are purple, violet and deep blue, and its shape 
is tall, rectangular or columnar. Jupiter is windy and moist a condition that will 
bring dry rot blow the hardware off doors, and other wind-oriented problems. 
In the house, Jupiter lines are suited to family altars, shrines, libraries, 
studies, stables, barns, balconies, attics, air conditioners, fans and forced-air 
heating units. You may feel lucky and more philosophical on a Jupiter line. 


Saturn 

Saturn is just the opposite of Jupiter. Objects may seem small and dense, lim- 
iting or restricting. This is a good line to display rules, regulations and official 
certificates. Saturn is dry, cold and brittle and rules heavy objects like pianos. 
A Saturn line is very stable and supportive, but things tend to age along this 
line (making it ideal for fake antiques). Just don't sit here for too long or you'll 
wither before your time. Saturn lines are thrifty, ideal for cutting the budget 
or coupons. It represents the foundations of your life and your home. Saturn 
shapes are square and box-like and its color is black. 

In the house, Saturn rules the safe or strongbox, the foundation, the 
floors and basement, storage areas especially for vegetable, cold areas, formal 
rooms, offices in the home, brick walls, rock gardens and the roof. You feel 
safe (or old) on a Saturn line. 


Uranus 
Uranus is associated with electricity and extreme cold, making it ideal for the 
freezer or very cold storage. There is an inventive capability plus a certain 
restiessness, a longing to be free, to rebel, to be unique on a Uranus line. Objects 
placed here appear unusual, odd or of great antiquity. There may be disrup- 
tions or interruptions. Objects tend to break up, break down, or break through 
on this line. For example, the window on the Uranus line is the one the kids 
always break. Colors associated with Uranus are ultra-marine, brilliant or elec- 
tric colors, plaids, checks, unusual patterns and extremely pointed or jagged 
shapes. 

In the house, Uranus rules electrical appliances, electrical wiring, the 
fuse box, the formal living room and the sprinkler system. A Uranus line is a 
perfect line for trying something new. 


201 


Neptune 
Neptune is associated with illusions of all kinds like photography, film, romantic 
idealism, religion or invisible things like X-rays and germs. A Neptune line is 
creative and imaginative; sacred objects find prominence; others are sensitized, 
subdued and idealized. Neptune dissolves anything it touches and tends to 
mystify or hide things; if you put something on a Neptune line it may disap- 
pear. Grey, purple, lavender or sea green colors are associated with Neptune, 
as are irregular shapes and glass. Neptune is watery or gaseous and rules poi- 
sons or other toxic liquid materials. Neptune lines often suffer insect damage 
or problems with leaks or wet areas that can debilitate what appears to be solid. 
In the house, it rules hidden areas, behind walls, rear or side doors, 
drainage ditches, gutters and the fire escape. A Neptune line is good for dream- 
ing or praying. 


Pluto 

Pluto represents the transformative process and a Pluto fine puts you in touch 
with basic issues of survival. You may feel powerful and in control, or isolated 
and alone. On this line, objects appear to be dramatically good or evil and may 
even have a transformative effect on others. Pluto colors are crimson, dark 
brown, maroon, magenta and dark red. Its shape is hard and dense. Pluto lines 
are also secret places, and like Neptune, can make objects disappear. Pluto rules 
termites and other tiny insects, fungi and mold, and can eat away at what you 
thought was forever. 

In the house, Pluto rules the compost pile, the toilets and waste disposal 
systems, the exhaust vents, the septic tank and sewer drains. Since Pluto iso- 
lates and alienates, don’t put your telephone on a Pluto line or no-one will ever 
call you. A Pluto line is where you're continually tested and challenged. Use 
this line to eliminate rubbish, both real and psychological. 


APPENDIXFOUR 


Two Articles By Michael Erlewine 


The following article was first published in 1977 in the 6th number of the Cosmecology 
Bulletin as published by Charles A. Jayne. Although astrologers had worked with the 
Horizon System before, Erlewine was the first to define the concept of Local Space as 
presented here. In particular, the combining of celestial positions (stars, planets, etc.) 
with directions on the globe (cities, places, etc.) and the concept of relocating towards a 
planet first appeared here. This was before the advent of the home computer, and Erlewine 
had worked out the tedious mathematics of Local Space first on a scientific calculator 

and later on one of the programmables. Today programs that calculate Local Space charts 
are available on many of the more popular computers. 


The Astrology of Local Space 

"There seem to be several distinct levels or dimensions to our life, and depend- 
ing upon the clarity of the day, our awareness may be centered in a dimen- 
sion ranging from the very mundane on up through an occasional sharing in 
some sort of more transpersonal or cosmic form of consciousness. It is becom- 
ing clear to many astrologers in these times that this multi-dimensionality of 
our life perhaps may best be represented and examined through a series of 
astrological charts; and that an attempt to extract all levels of our life - the many 
quite different dimensions - from the geocentric ecliptic chart alone is bound 
to be a frustrating experience. In a word it is unnecessary. 

Astrologers make constant use of three very different systems of coordi- 
nates (whether they are aware of it or not) each time they erect a natal chart: 
namely (1) the Zodiac or ecliptic, (2) the Equatorial system (right ascension and 
declination) and (3) the Horizon system of coordinates. The actual distrinction 
between these different systems of coordinates are lost to most ofus, and they 
are jumbled together to form some kind of Zodiac pie. It has become my re- 
alization that these basic physical planes of reference - the horizon, equator, 
ecliptic, and even the galactic and supergalactic planes - correspond symboli- 
cally to the various different dimensions or levels of our consciousness - as they 
exist now, in mutual interpenetration. These levels can be sorted out; and as 
astrologers we may learn to read these different levels as separate, yet related 
and whole dimension of our experience. Let me rephrase all of this. Our Uni- 


verse, and therefore our Life, can be described or expressed in astrological 
terms using any one of several fundamental planes of reference: ecliptic, ho- 
rizon, etc. These different planes and their respective coordinate systems are 
like different languages (or algebras), in that they each can express the same 
moment in time, the same planets - in fact each can express the entire uni- 
verse; and yet each orders these same objects and data in a different way so as 
to bring out and raise a particular dimension of reality above the general thresh- 
old of our life and awareness. Since our life and consciousness appear to flow 
through at least several quite distinct levels, it is our conviction that the most 
sensible method by which to express or map these different levels is through 
such fundamental orderings, or reference planes. Our almost exclusive con- 
cern for the plane of the Earth's orbit - the ecliptic or zodiac and the relation 
of all activity to this plane - results in a loss of contrast and dimensionality that 
the use of these alternative coordinate systems provide. 

There are at least two basic factors to consider when examining these 
various coordinate systems; and they are summed up in the familiar axiom: 
"As above, so below; yet after another manner." The first factor is an indica- 
tion that the various coordinate systems may be ordered to form a hierarchy 
in terms of a progressive "inclusivity," or greater comprehensiveness. In other 
words, the Galactic coordinate system includes the Heliocentric, which includes 
the Geocentric, which includes the Horizon, and so forth. This represents the 
"As above, so below" portion of the phrase: and this “wheels within wheels 
within wheels" concept is well understood, and a popular one through which 
to express the various dimensions of consciousness. In other words, a large 
frame of reference or coordinate system somehow involves information of a 
larger or more metaphysical kind when considered in relation to a more par- 
ticular or less inclusive system. 

The second factor to be illustrated in the phrase "As above, so below: 
yet after another manner, “while of equal importance, is less well understood. The 
great reference places and their respective systems of coordinates are not only 
inclusive of one another (that is larger and smaller in relation to each other), 
but they are also inclined at different angles or attitudes to one another. In other 
words, learning to use and understand the nature of a more inclusive system, 
such as the Ecliptic or Zodiac system, in relation to the Equatorial or "Right 
sphere" system is not only a matter of ordering the information along a differ- 
ent plane (taking a larger view or picture): it also involves a fundamental change 
in attitude, or inclination. This shift in attitude, or reorientation of attitude, is 
an important concept for astrologers to consider and to absorb. 

Let me present an analogy which might relate to interpreting these vari- 
ous planes in our everyday life. We are becoming ever more aware on a so- 
cial level of the Cosmic or transpersonal perspective as being associated with 
the idea of Expansion, with a more Whole-View: yet we have not understood 
on this same broad social level that such a change in scale or scope may also 


involve a basic change in attitude: a fundamental change in approach to life. 
We can no longer be inclined in directions we once were; and this must amount 
to a radical change - that is, change at "root" level - in our activity! Further- 
more, a basic misunderstanding as to what is involved in spiritual growth has 
resulted from an attempt to view such growth exclusivity as some kind of “en- 
largement;" one wistfully looks forward to growing beyond the particular terms 
of his everyday existence. This is a result of ignorance of the change of attitude 
- the change in point of view, or vantage point - that accompanies true spir- 
itual development: a change very difficult to imagine or assess for one not aware 
that such change is a natural and expected part of any deeper initiation. 

So much for metaphysics. Much of my own research here in Ann Arbor 
has revolved around these various coordinate systems and the dimensions of 
life they describe. In particular, I have been concerned with the inclinations 
or attitudes of one system to another. I like to tell myself that the reason for 
this interest may be due to the fact that I was born with such a "bad" attitude 
towards some facets of life in this world, that vast changes in attitude on my 
part have been necessary simply for my survival. Let me repeat: these differ- 
ent coordinate systems are great Languages or Orderings of our total reality, 
and each one raises to our attention its characteristic gestalt of whole dimen- 
sion of life. 

To my knowledge, L Edward Johndro was the first modern astrologer to 
make a life-long concern the articulation of the difference between whole 
coordinate systems (Ecliptic and Equator). And in my opinion, a final assess- 
ment of Johndro’swork may not deal so much in terms of his technical genius 
alone as with the scope and comprehension of his vision; and in particular, 
that focus of it relating to the essential differences between events as interpreted 
on the ecliptic or on the equator. In recent years, this research has been car- 
ried on and developed further by Charles Jayne, Theodor Landscheidt and 
others. Our research at the Heart Center School of Astrology has entered on 
the difference and relationship between the Geocentric and Heliocentric eclip- 
tic systems and, in recent years, on questions of cosmic structure; in particu- 
lar in an attempt to assess the meaning of the Galactic and Supergalactic planes 
as they stand in relation to one another, and to the zodiac. With these ideas in 
mind, we are ready to examine a most particular and fascinating system of 
coordinates: that of the Horizon. There is no intention here to document or 
"prove" the validity of this system in this very preliminary research. Our pur- 
pose is to present the impression we have formed regarding the dimension to 
provide those interested with the means to calculate such charts. We would very 
much appreciate feedback and comments from those of you who investigate 
this very interesting dimension. 


In simple terms the Local Space (LS) chart is a map of the 360 degrees 
of horizon surrounding an event such as a birth... much as we might look around 
us toward the east, west north and south. In this coordinate system, the fun- 


205 


damental plane to which all else is referred is the horizon of the observer; and 
the position of the various planets as they appear from this location are pro- 
jected onto the horizon using the coordinates “azimuth" and “altitude". 

Azimuth is the equivalent of zodiac longtitude in this system and is 
measured for our purposes, from the east direction, through the North and on 
around in a counter-clockwise direction, in the same way that we measure the 
traditional signs and houses. 

Altitude, analogous to ecliptic latitude, is measured above and below 
the horizon to the poles from 0 degree to 90 degrees. It is worth the emphasis 
of repetition to stress that from the standpoint of the Local Space chart the 
horizon is the whole azimuth circle as it ranges around the wheel of the chart - 
not simply the line described by House cusps I and VII, as our astrological 
habituations tempt us to think. This, then, gives a sort of "flat earth" perspec- 
tive, as it were, the visible horizon being much like a "Magical Circle". And 
as tradition teaches us regarding the nature of the Magical Circle: the Circle 
is realized to be the equator of a sphere which extends above and below the 
plane of the local horizon (apparent or rational horizon cuts the infinite sphere 
in coincident circles). Here is a map, in space, of an event from a topocentric 
perspective, or local center; and this, an astrology of Local Space. 

Before we dive into the techniques useful in this new dimension of Lo- 
cal Space, here is our impression of "what it is all about": the general feeling 
of what portion of life is captured through this coordinate system. The most 
remarkable factor, and the key concept you may need in order to appreciate 
the particular quality of the Local Space chart, is that every object in the uni- 
verse - whether Celestial or Mundane - has an equal and valid position in this 
chart. Not only the planets and stars, but on an equal basis, cities, countries 
and even the local water tower or the neighbor's house can be represented. 
All that concerns us here is the direction of any object in space - not the dis- 
tance. In other words, the Celestial Sphere and the Mundane or Geographic 
Sphere exist side by side and are interchangeable! A star is a city is a neighbor. 
We can walk towards, write letters to, or get up and move into for instance - 
our Seventh House. Even more startling, we can travel into our natal planets, 
since they also represent a direction on the globe in the chart of Local Space. 

Here, in a hopeless intermingling of various planes of reference and of 
objects, a strange and, I must confess, somewhat magical view of our world 
begins to emerge: one in which every city and friend becomes a radiating center 
of influence. Here for the first time the long history of Magic, witchcraft and 
sorcery take on a practical reality, where local deities and preferred directions 
become the rule, and we are thrust forever beyond the threshold of the just 
"slightly remarkable". The psychedelic character in Local Space charts is un- 
mistakeable and appears to be intrinsic to the system. The world seems to 
appear as a kind of grand talisman and vast ritual ground through this perspec- 
tive. The closest popular image of a similar nature in the modern conscious- 


ness is the remarkable world of Don Juan as generated by the author Carlos 
Castaneda. Here is no “subtle plane", but a personal landscape painted in bold 
and clear strokes, a world where the modern man is learning to move across 
the face of the Earth in an endless adjustment and tuning of his radix - of his 
self. Individuals driven in particular directions on a checkerboard world, un- 
able to resist travelling to a goal that is no particular place on Earth as much 
as it is a direction within them: the direction of a force, or of a planet: "There! 
where Power hovers", to use Don Juan's expression. In a word, here is per- 
haps the most vulgar system, where the obvious is enthroned and the subtle 
unnecessary. Here then are some specific approaches we have found to be most 
useful in examining these charts. 

Once you have mastered the mathematics involved in erecting these 
charts (programs that calculate Local Space charts are available from Matrix 
Software for most popular name computers) involved in erecting these charts, 
and have laid them out on 360 degree wheels similar to those pictured herein, 
a probable series of questions you want to investigate may arise. Let us con- 
sider some of them. 

Compare the planets in the Local Space chart with your geocentric na- 
tal chart. As you will soon note, the individual aspects between two planets 
can be very different in the two kinds of charts; also, the larger Whole Chart 
Patterns may indicate a different quality. A planet may achieve great focus in 
the Local Space chart that is not brought out in the Geo chart; and yet you 
may have intuited and sensed the added importance of this planet or princi- 
ple in the make-up of the individual involved, and yet had no physical basis 
for your intuition. 

The single most important use of Local Space in the astrologer/client 
relationship in our experience has been in locality shifts. One of the most fre- 
quent questions asked the astrologer during a reading is; where would be a 
good place for me to live? I have made use of the quite valid and useful tradi- 
tional technique of adjusting the RAMC of the radix to the new locality and 
coming up with a new Ascendant and so forth. The radix positions then are 
read in terms of these new angles. Local Space is by nature suited to express 
both celestial and geographic positions on one map or chart. Its special na- 
ture introduces several concepts not encountered in other techniques. 


Radix Local Space Charts 

Aside from the planetary aspects, there are two primary indicators of strong 
or high focus in the radix Local Space chart: (1) a planet is on or near the 
horizon (it has low altitude); and (2) a planet is conjunct to one of the four angles 
of cardinal directions. It is worth noting which of the planets is closest to the 
horizon, even if not conjunct. We use standard orbs for azimuth - although we 
haven't arrived at any "final rules" in this respect. It is also worth noting which 
planet is the most elevated (has the greatest altitude). And parallels and 


207 


contraparallels need investigation. The nature of parallel/contraparallel, as far 
as interpretation is concerned, may be somewhat different here since they do 
not describe coincident arcs (as time passes), as do parallels in declination. 

We are now ready to examine a technique that gets to the heart of what 
these charts are all about. At this point we have in front of us our radix Local 
Space chart, with the various planets plotted on it. As we mentioned earlier, 
we can also plot the positions of cities and places on the Earth on this map; 
so, our next project then will be to translate all of the important cities in our 
lives into their equivalent positions on our radix map of Local Space. 

We should be sure to include not only the places we ourselves have lived 
in or visited, but also the cities that we have always thought that we might like 
to visit - that bring a warm feeling to mind, and so forth; the positions of cities 
where friends and not-so-friendlies live, where there are business relationships, 
etc. We then examine these places in terms of their position (or direction) on 
the LS chart with these thoughts in mind: are these cities in aspect? In par- 
ticular by conjunction or opposition? Are they in alignment with planets in 
the chart? In what quadrants and houses do these cities fall and are any on 
the angles? We have found that individuals tend to move towards cities that 
are also in the direction of planets that represents the particular kind of en- 
ergy they may require at that time. An individul, for instance, needing to in- 
voke the key to success, often obtained through Jupiter, may make one or sev- 
eral moves in that direction. Although its concept is so simple as to be almost 
embarrassing, this technique has shown itself to be of great value. In any case, 
its value seems to be substantial rather than hypothetical. Next to, for exam- 
ple, some of the cumbersome and ultra-traditional place rulerships, proposed 
national birth charts, etc - most of them very arbitrary, the complex and con- 
fusing juggling of all these factors seem a rather specious approach to the lo- 
cality problem, and their results rather tentative. The LS chart, at least can 
show a concrete, measurable reaction of the individual, even in the same lo- 
cality, as much as their LS charts vary from one another, and whatever may 
be the intrinsic character of a place - and places undoubtedly have this, as a 
selection of people could react very differently to it from the point of view of 
each one’s own make-up. Moreover, each one could react differently at times, 
under different astrological conditions. Although the mathematics involved in 
this system may seem a bit complex, the application of its technique is simple 
and direct; and this does much to recommend it. 


Locality Shifts in Local Space 

After the basic information in the radix chart has been taken in, we may want 
to construct secondary charts for the various localities where the individual has 
lived or travelled. These charts are equivalent to ones cast for this locality at 
the time of birth, as if one were born there. This involves a transformation of 
the radix planet's position, as well as a shift around the angles of these posi- 


208 


tions. Aside from the initial direction from the radix of the locality shift, there 
are other factors to note. 

Through a shift in locality, a planet (or even a city) may be brought into 
(or away from) the horizon. We have found that a planet achieves high focus 
when on the horizon, in terms of its activity within the individual. In other 
words, we can adjust and tune our radix - and ourselves - through locality shifts, 
much as we might tune a musical instrument. Another objective that might be 
accomplished by a locality shift is to bring a yet farther away city to high fo- 
cus - say, to an angle, or in aspect to a planet - allowing a second locality shift 
to be made in its direction. This alters or modifies the psychic interaction of 
person and place by altering the direction of approach to it. The effect achieved 
would be quite other than that invoked by approaching it direcdy. Some of 
the magical quality of the dimesnion can be seen in the checkerboard-like world 
concept that emerges, where individuals not only move in relation to a plan- 
etary energy they require but are ever adjusting and jockeying into position 
to achieve the most resonant move. Aside from the focus achieved through 
the angles and planets, we may compare aspects and Whole Chart Patterns 
with the radix chart; in particular by bringing one planet to a conjunction with 
another. As Charles Jayne has pointed out to me, this amounts to progression 
of the chart through space, rather than time (a very elegant concept) - for those 
of us, perhaps, who find it hard to wait! We have found that both the conjunc- 
tion and oppositions (the alignments), as formed by this progression in space, 
are most significant. 


There you have the fundamental ides with which we have worked thus far, the 
usefulness of these charts in the astrologer/client relationship should be clear. 
We have used these charts in our practice with success, and have found that 
many people are concerned with where they might live in order to bring the 
Self into some resonant and satisfying focus. Perhaps modern man is develop- 
ing an intuitive sense for self-adjustment and focus through locality shifts - 
something that ancient man did very little of. It appears that one can enrich 
and complement various qualities of the radix through location adjustment - 
bringing our needed energies to one place and time, moving elsewhere for 
another life episode at another time. What we will need before this technique 
could ever achieve widespread use is a set of easy tables of azimuth and alti- 
tude to be designed and made available to astrologers, thus doing away with 
the somewhat complicated trigonometry. I hope some of you will brave the 
necessary calculations and take advantage of this opportunity to explore the 
astrology of Local Space." 


209 


This is taken from the 1978 edition of the Circle Books Astrological Calendar: 


Local Space 

"I want to relate to you a powerful new way (new to me) of coming to know 
ourselves through astrology. It involves another kind of map or chart of our 
birth moment: a map of the space surrounding the birthplace; and this form 
of topo-centric astrology we call the astrology of Local Space (LS). First I should 
tell you how I happened on to this fascinating approach. 

I was involved in an attempt at understanding the many different House 
systems that astrologers use, trying to "decide" which, of all of them, might be 
the best for my purposes. For several years, I had not used any house system 
at all, but only the four angles of the chart, in a kind of protest or disgust at 
the lack of agreement among astrologers concerning systems of house division. 
It seemed rather strange to me that there were so many competing house sys- 
tems. For many years of my astrological practice, I lacked the necessary math- 
ematical background to decide for myself which of the many house systems 
made "sense" to me. I could only read about the merits of each house system 
and take the word of "those who knew". I came to use the Campanus system 
of houses because many of those astrologers that I respected most used this 
system. In recent years, I had been learning enough spherical trigonometry 
on my pocket calculator to make my first attempt at solving the mystery of 
House division. 

I have always been a slow learner; so I had to sit down with an equato- 
rial star-map of the constellations and attempt to draw out graphically the 
various ways of dividing space and time - in hope of being enlightened as to 
which house system had the most going for it. Of course, I wanted to draw 
out the House systems using my own natal chart. This was kind of complex, 
for I had to calculate, using spherical trigonometry, the 360 degrees of my radix 
horizon and plot this curving line on the star map (see Figure 59). All house 
systems agree on the validity of the horizon, and so I felt this was the place to 
start. This proved to be a most worthwhile exercise. I soon became aware that 
regardless of which House system was used, what was of interest to astrolo- 
gers was not the horizon in its own right, but just those few places where it 
crossed or intersected our beloved Zodiac or ecliptic. In other words, House 
systems are concerned with different ways of sending meaningful lines to in- 
tersect the zodiac; and these intersecting points are then the cusps, or sensi- 
tive points, for that individual - a kind of astrologers’ acupuncture point. 

Laying these House systems out on a map helped me - a great deal - to 
understand what in fact the various House systems were. But I yearned for some 
simpler way to deal with it all. ] reached a point where I took the problem into 
my own hands and said “OK Michael, let's suspend judgment on which of all 
these House systems is best and do something very simple, although perhaps 
unsophisticated, that will make sense to you". I started off by making the center 


210 


of our House system the place where one is born, and I put the pole of the 
system overhead - the pole of the birthplace - and instead of using more com- 
plex methods of division, I divided the surrounding space into a simple pie of 
twelve divisions radiating out from the birthplace. This was represented on the 
Earth (geographically) and through space (astronomically). This, would be my 
very own House system! The points where the twelve radiating lines intersected 
the Zodiac place would be the House cusps or sensitive points in this system. 

I was, at this point as "bad" as the other astrologers who had developed 
their own systems. I did find that although this method of House division was 
quite radical compared to the more familiar systems, the particular cusp de- 
grees of the zodiac had already proved significant and were already "favorite" 
and previously noted points along the zodiac. My friend and fellow astrolo- 
ger James Coats promptly termed this the Radiant House System, since the 
cusps radiated out from a central place on Earth. ] had, in my own way, stum- 
bled upon what I found out was already known as the Horizontal House Sys- 
tem, which, along with the Campanus System represents one of two obvious 
and complementary ways to divide the space surrounding a birth into equal 
parts. The astrologer L. Edward Johndro calls the Campanus System "the Ferris 
wheel", and the Radiant or Horizontal System "the merry-go-round". Astrolo- 
ger Charles Jayne has been pointing out the need to investigate this Horizon- 
tal System of House for many years. 

I was still interested in those twelve little points where these radiating lines 
intersected the old familiar zodiac. Then something very important began to 
occur to me. I began to see that the Horizon System was a complete system in 
itself, just as the zodiac is, stretching a full 360 degrees around the heavens. 
Instead of considering the horizon as a necessary means to get at and define 
these zodiacal pressure points, I began to follow on the star map the line of 
my radix horizon through the heavens to the point where it intersected the 
plane or line of the Zodiac on this map. This point was, of course, my Ascend- 
ant and 7+ degrees of Sagittarius. But my eyes kept going past the Ascendant 
following my horizon until it intersected another line: that of the plane of our 
galaxy; at which point the first shock rolled in. My horizon intersected the 
galactic plane constellation Cygnus, the Swan. 

At this point I must relate a more personal story to make clear what was 
happening. Over the past years, I had been assembling a book containing stellar 
points and planes: Astrophysical Directions, and in the process I had to calculate 
and plot quite a few maps of the heavens. In this way, I came to know and 
develop a sense of the major constellations in a much more intimate way than 
ever before. Throughout this work, I noted a "fixation" on a couple of con- 
stellations in particular. Above them all, I revered the constellation Cygnus; 
and on repeated occasions, for no reason I could determine, I felt such deep 
identification with this constellation and what it seemed to signify that tears 
came to my eyes. Now I] find that Cygnus was one of the two constellations 


211 


where my own particular horizon crossed the great plane of our galaxy - a 
kind of galactic Descendant and Ascendant; the other being the constellation 
Vela, the Sails, another constellations to which I had always been very sensi- 
tive. Well, I had to laugh at this point. What, I said to myself, if the entire 360 
degrees of the horizon of my birth is as sensitive as the Node where it crosses 
the Zodiac, the Ascendant. What if there are other basic planes of importance 
to us, besides the Zodiac, to which we respond? Did I have a galactic and 
supergalactic Ascendant and new sets of constellations or "signs" to come to 
know? 

At this point, I must shrink a long, and to me, a beautiful story and sim- 
ply say that this discovery was the first of a great many such mini- 
enlightenments I was to have. I searched through my collection of horoscopes 
to see how my friends and acquaintances were oriented. I was discovering the 
strength and power of the local horizon. I had accepted and used the Ascend- 
ant and Vertex and other sensitive ecliptic points in my work, but always with 
the accent on the zodiac. I had never stopped to think that in each case it took 
another plane to bring these Nodes or points of intersection into existence - in 
this case, it was the plane of the horizon. And yet I had, in a subconscious way, 
used the horizon in all my work. I could now see that each individual had a 
kind of unique orientation or attitude to the whole cosmos and that in the 
horizon we had a plane capable of revealing much more about oneself than 
just those sensitive points which relate to the Zodiac. 

At any rate, I began to explore the whole of the heavens from my point 
of view. For a time, I forgot the Zodiac and instead began to inquire, and thus 
to learn a great deal about my own attitude and orientation to my birth event 
to my life. Somewhere during this time, another idea occurred to me that 
proved to be most compelling: the horion also traced a path on maps of the 
Earth, as well as the heavens. I had calculated by this time a complete chart 
of the planets’ positions in the Horizon System using the system's equivalent 
to Zodiac longitude and latitude called - azimuth and altitude. How, I won- 
dered, would the directions of the planets in my horizon chart relate to direc- 
tions and cities on this Earth? I soon developed the trigonometry needed to 
answer these questions - quite a prodigious undertaking for me - and thus began 
areal "magical mystery tour" through my life history. Although I have lived 
in several different places, the one major move in my life has been from Lan- 
caster, Pennsylvania (my birthplace) to Ann Arbor, Michigan. Of course, what 
I wanted to know was, what direction was Ann Arbor from Lancaster? That is 
what degree did Ann Arbor occupy on my radix or birth horizon? 

And here rolled in the second great shock wave. Ann Arbor was right 
in the direction of my natal Jupiter position on the Local Space chart - within 
two degrees. In other words, a move to Ann Arbor was a move in the direc- 
tion of my natal Jupiter. Jupiter rules my Ascendant and its position above the 
Seventh House cusp had made it very prominent in any analysis of my chart. 


212 


At any rate, I wondered at such a coincidence and set out to answer some of 
the other questions that now began to pop up in my mind. What about the 
other places I had lived, or to which I had travelled or thought of travelling 
to? The history of my travel came before my mind...some places of joy and 
learning, others of sorrow and pain. I plotted the directions and calculated the 
charts for all of these places, and what I found through reading these charts 
was overwhelming; it marked my initial surrender to what now appears to be 
- for me - a major discovery in my astrological life: that of Local Space. I erected 
different Local Space charts. These amounted to maps of the space surround- 
ing each place as if I had been born there, rather than at Lancaster. The story 
of my life and self, interpreted and confirmed through my reading of these 
Local Space charts, was moving - to say the least. 

Let me cite an example of the sort of thing I found. I am well known to 
my friends as being a homebody. It is very difficult for anything to induce me 
to leave Ann Arbor. At one point in my life however, I sold everything I owned. 
My wife and I moved north to go into the green plant business, to manage our 
own greenhouses. I actually left Ann Arbor and moved away! It so happened 
that we were a couple of years ahead of our time in offering fine greenhouse 
plants to people; the demand for these plants and the plant store craze did not 
appear until later. We lost everything in this venture. On the material or in- 
vestment plane, it was a disaster. Now, in my Local Space chart I have triple 
conjunction of the Moon, Uranus and Saturn to the same degree; in anybody's 
astrology, this has accounted for quite a strong focus. The move into the green- 
house business was a move precisely - to the degree - into (or towards) this 
triple conjunction! I had actually moved intomyMoon-Uranus-Saturn conjunc- 
tion! It was is if we had gone there to wrestle and come to terms with my Saturn 
(or with Satan, you might say) - and come out the wiser for it. For this experi- 
ence, as hard as it was, ended many more superficial fears on my part con- 
cerning loss. We lost what to us at the time was everything, and still our fife 
went on. 

What had impressed me through this voyage of discovery was the po- 
tency of the entire horizon, and of more than just a couple of its points; and 
the fact that somehow the orientation of an individual to the cosmos made a 
difference, or was reflected in behaviour and activity at the supramundane 
level. It took me quite a while to "develop the faith", or to let myself believe 
that God was so thorough in his/her influence as to be all-pervading down to 
the finest details. It was a while later before I could entertain with grace the 
idea that this same orientation or attitude was reflected as much upon the map of 
the Earth as upon the map of the heavens. Another way of putting this (and 
this is, to me, the beauty of Local Space astrology), is that Heaven and Earth 
are interchangeable, or are in the last analysis one living entity - a single whole. 
This is made ever so clear in the LS chart, where every object in the universe, 
celestial and mundane, has an equal and valid position. Not only the planets 


213 


and the stars, but on an equal basis, cities, countries, and even the local water 
tower or friends’ houses can be represented. All that concerns us is the direc- 
tion in space: the orientation, not the distance. In Local Space the Heavens 
and Earth, the Celestial and Mundane (or Geographic) spheres exist side by 
side and are interchangeable. 


In drawing this year's article to a close, I would like to share a few experiences 
and thoughts with you concerning some of the structure in space beyond the 
Zodiac and how it can be of value in individual development and growth. Let 
me relate a personal story as to how I first got interested in the deeper regions 
of space. Our research, as some of you will know, has centered on the differ- 
ence and relationship between the geocentric and heliocentric ecliptic systems. 
My interest in the space surrounding our solar system was minimal. I was put 
off by the billions of stellar objects out there and, on a more basic level, by 
the ideas of Coldness and Blackness I had been programmed to associate with 
outer space. Distant space somehow represented the epitome of "otherness" 
and foreignness" to me. I was embarrassed, in terms of astrological usage, by 
all of the books I had read on the fixed stars, with the exception of 
L.EJohndro's book The Stars. How was I to determine the significance of these 
billions of stars and use them in my practice, when I had enough difficulty, as 
it was, using nine planets? 

And then the unexpected happened. I had a dream. It was not an ordi- 
nary dream but one of those dreams that are more real than waking conscious- 
ness - that take months to understand and absorb. In my dream an "astrolo- 
ger" appeared to me whose eyes were filled with light. There were rays or stalks 
of light coming out of his eyes. This strange being said but one word: "LOOK!" 
and with his arm turned and pointed to the night sky. I looked. The sky was 
filled with brilliant points of light. The stars and all of this starry material was 
clustered together to form the great glowing arch of the Milky Way or galactic 
plane. It was wondrous beyond description and in that instant my heart went 
out from me and filled this bright space. Never again have I had the feeling of 
being here on Earth, warm and trembling before the Cold and Black of space. 
I became the space and light and reversed my polarity or attitude. I was a liv- 
ing representative of this mother galaxy. I was the spaceman! 

From that night forward I began to venture beyond the zodiac in an 
inquiry as to the nature and structure of this universe. Here, in brief form, is 
what I found for myself: We are nodes or information aggregates. The Uni- 
verse is in intimate contact with itself through us. The manyfold nature of the 
cosmic events is represented through our self and lives. There is not only a 
correlation between these seemingly remote cosmic events and our person, but 
an identity as well. Information coming from the Galactic Center, carried by 
electromagnetic and gravitational radiation from every last star and cosmic 
plane and event passes through us at all times. We are, in some way, a node 


214 


or information complex caught in a matrix or web of manifestation. 

The overpowering idea that occurs when we make some acquaintance 
with the universe and its structure is that there is no difference between out 
there and in here. We are out there! Our world and our self and relationships 
are a perfect reflection of what is and what is happening out there. Not an 
analogy, but an identity. Black holes, supernovae, quasars and the like are not 
remote cosmic events, but this identical story is represented, reflected, lived 
and acted out each day in our lives. 

Information circulates through the universe and our identity or sense of 
our self in this very process of circulation. Identity is not a substance, but a 
relationship, in fact a circulation and a process of communion or communi- 
cation. Not only is there a connection between our life and that of our galaxy 
and universe, but we are the connection. A study of the structure of the uni- 
verse, at any level, is a study of ourselves. In summary, the idea that I am 
elaborating here is: Astrology is not only a symbolic system of psychological 
discussion. The symbol is also, in fact, real. If we say it is an analogy, then the 
analogy is complete down to the limits of any specific example we might 
choose. 

We are all time and space travellers. There are no better words that I 
know of than these of Emerson in his Essay on History; ‘All inquiry into antiq- 
uity is the desire to do away with this wild, savage and preposterous There or 
Then, and introduce in its place the Here and the Now. Belzoni (an archae- 
ologist) digs and measures in the mummy-pits and pyramids of Thebes until 
he can see the end of the difference between the monstrous work and him- 
self. When he has satisfied himself, in general and in detail, that it was made 
by such a person as he, so armed and so motivated, and to ends which he, 
himself, should also have worked, the problem is solved; bis thought lives along 
the whole line of temples and sphinxes and catacombs, passes through them 


yt 


all with satisfaction, and they live again to the mind, or are now’. 


215 


APPENDIX FIVE 


THE LOCAL SPACE CHART 


by Sean Lovatt 


This is an excerpt from an article called 'The Local Space Chart' by Sean Lovatt. The 
article in its entirety can be found in the Autumn 1992 edition of the Astrology Quar- 
terly Volume 64 no. 4. 


Using the Local Space Chart! 

The LSC is most interesting when it differs a great deal from the natal, as it 
often does. Sometimes it will offer clues as to which area of the natal chart is 
likely to be felt most strongly at the birth location, information that does not 
readily exist elsewhere. This side of LS can be very useful when looking at 
childhood and other experiences and may explain why obviously hard aspects 
in the ecliptic chart are sometimes modified. 


Relocating the Local Space chart 

Relocating the LSC offers advantages over relocating the ecliptic chart because 
of the greater number of variables. When considering a local space chart, it is 
important to first understand the natal chart. Naturally since we are using the 
planets in both systems the natal chart's planetary patterns give clues as to how 
the Local Space energies will manifest. To know, for instance, 'what sort of 
Uranus’ is brought into focus in the Local Space chart we must firsdy look to 
the natal chart. Having understood both the natal ecliptic and the natal local 
space chart we are then ready to relocate. 

Planets that are not aspecting each other in the natal chart are especially 
important when they form a meaningful aspect in LS; at these locations peo- 
ple tend to be affected by intense emotions that are outside their usual expe- 
rience. Local Space offers us a more transpersonal view. A specific place can 
bring into focus certain planetary patterns that are not in the natal chart, which 
is how we can analyse our geographical experiences: in Local Space we have 
a profound method for enhancing our understanding of ourselves and our place 
in the world. Each point on the map has a unique planetary pattern for each 
individual. With Local Space charts it is truly possible to find healing spots, 


217 


SOUTH HORIZON 


NORTH 


Figure 96 


places to retreat to and, of course, places to retreat from. The ability to divine 
the experience that someone might have in any given region provides astrol- 
ogy with an extremely powerful tool, and as such the versatility of Local Space 
is virtually unlimited. 

Local Space charts can be uncannily apt. The planetary symbolism of- 
ten shouts extremely loudly, sometimes so obviously that it is hard to credit 
The charts can express themselves in very physical ways, allowing us to clearly 
predict what sort of energies and events are to be experienced in a given place. 

The chart shown in Figure 96 above is extremely instructive, 'Mark’s’ 
local space chart (data from his mother to the author & withheld by request) 
is relocated from the birth place in the U.K to Mombassa Kenya and tells us 
not only why he might go there but also what might happen on arrival. 

Venus and Jupiter in the east strongly suggest that this is a holiday des- 
tination. The easterly position of Mars hints at sports and its aspect to Nep- 
tune suggests activities of an aquatic nature - Mark was in fact proposing to go 
on a scuba diving holiday! With the Sun in the west he felt this trip was very 
important as it offered the chance to spend time with his father, something he 
had not done since his parents’ divorce. We can see from the Uranus/Sun 
conjunction that the break from routine he was looking for was on offer in this 


218 


part of East Africa. Uranus/Sun in the west is very apt as Mark was techni- 
cally too young to dive according to international regulations: nevertheless 
his father had found a way to circumvent the rules. What is not immediately 
obvious is that Mars and Neptune are the real key - not only are they are in 
opposition to each other and quite close to the east-west axis, but they share 
similar altitude close to the horizon at -2 degrees 55 minutes and -8 degrees 6 
minutes respectively. Three factors that when combined offer very powerful 
indicators. Although Uranus is involved in the Mars-Neptune opposition, its 
altitude is vastly different, and its influence therefore is secondary. I was wor- 
ried about Mark's health if he were to actually go to Mombassa. Mars-Nep- 
tune equalled infection, drowning, or some other terrible fate (in my mind), 
and I went to great pains to advise Mark to be particularly careful about his 
diet whilst on holiday. I had images of him eagerly devouring suspicious look- 
ing sausages at a beach side barbecue and suffering the consequences. 

Mark did in fact go to Mombassa for two weeks. The first week he spent 
diving, and by all accounts had a great time, however, during the second he 
became ill after cutting himself. The wound became infected and would not 
heal (very Mars-Neptune). On his return to the UK, Mark's GP referred him 
to a specialist and after some extensive tests he was diagnosed as having caught 
arare and unpleasant but not fatal, blood infection. I am glad to say that Mark 
has now made a full recovery, but his convalescence took three months. 


SOUTH HORIZON 


Figure 97 shows Richard Nixon’s? local space relocated from his birth place 
in Yorba Linda, CA to Washington DC, the seat of his infamous presidency. 
With Neptune in the south (which is equivalent to the MC for charts cast north 
of the planet's declination) we are given a suitably apt symbol for a man who 
was known firstly for his idealistic Quaker inspired policy that lead to the US 
withdrawal from Vietnam and secondly for the political and criminal decep- 
tions that caused his downfall. With the Moon conjunct Venus trine that promi- 
nent Neptune we can see why the public gave him such a landslide victory in 
the elections for his second term. It is no surprise with these aspects strong that 
Nixon was given a free pardon by his successor Gerald Ford, fully rehabili- 
tated as a public figure and a very popular after dinner speaker before his death. 

Saturn in the west indicates clearly why Nixon became so suspicious 
and confrontational in his dealings with the Washington establishment and its 
square to the southerly Neptune more than hints at the scandal which Watergate 
was to become. Mercury/Mars opposite Pluto is yet another powerful sym- 
bol that bears witness to the skulduggery, misuse of intelligence and informa- 
tion that led Nixon to be the only US President ever to resign whilst in office. 

In this aspect we can see Nixon's refusal to produce evidence that was 
required of him by the Judiciary at the Watergate enquiry. Mars and Mercury 
are conjunct both in conventional terms and by the fact that they share the 
same altitude; being square to Uranus is it any surprise that electronic bug- 
ging devices featured so prominently in a scandal that rocked the world's most 
powerful nation? 


Local space charts are not always so obvious, but with a little practice they can 
be a very effective tool for the astrologer to draw on when the question of 
geographical changes are to be considered. 


NOTES 


1, Calculation of the LSC can be performed by most astrological software, and can 
be requested from most calculation services. Tables do exist designed for navigation 
aids, such as the British Admiralty Nautical Almanac - but they require skills not usu- 
ally possessed by astrologers and are expensive. 


2. 9th January 1913; 09:35 PM PST, Yorba Linda, CA. Source: AA/T. Pat Davis. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Local Space - A Guide to What it is and How to use it by Martin Davis. 
Astro*Centre Publications 1989. 

Planets in Locality, by Steve Cozzi, Llewellyn 1988. 

Astro-Physical Directions, by Michael Erlewine, Ann Arbor MI. USA 1977. 


220 


APPENDIX SIX 


PLUTO'S POSITION ON ACG MAPS 


by Martin Davis 


When we view and employ ACG as a technique in its own right we have a 
relatively simple and straightforward situation; the map's lines are derived from 
the planetary positions in angularity to the earth. These alignments are astro- 
nomical fact. An issue arises however when we see ACG as an overview of 
planetary angularity in natal or relocated charts. The problem is that the usual 
ecliptic charts introduce an astronomical approximation. They are calculated 
assuming that all of the planets are on the ecliptic. In fact at any time, some 
planets may be above or below the exact ecliptic plane, as measured in celes- 
tial latitude. This means that a discrepancy is introduced (in our charts) such 
that an ACG map may portray planetary lines of ‘true’ angularity which don't 
exacdy match the planets on the angles of a corresponding chart at a specific 
earth location. 

The situation for our era (c. 2000) is that Pluto is 11 degrees of celestial 
latitude above the ecliptic, Saturn is 2 degrees below, Venus 2 degrees above, 
while the Moon zips about monthly moving anywhere from a position on the 
ecliptic (O degrees of latitude) to a maximum of about plus or minus 5 degrees 
above or below it. The other planets are close enough to the ecliptic (includ- 
ing the Sun, which is on the ecliptic by definition) such that there are no no- 
ticeable discrepancies between the angular lines of an ACG map and the plan- 
etary angularity in a corresponding chart. 

Let's look at some examples to make this clearer. Alex was born on 17 
July 1965 at 4:22 PM in London. His birth chart is shown in Figure 98. Note 
that zodiacal Pluto (at 14 degrees, 23 minutes of Virgo) is in almost perfect 
conjunction with his midheaven (at 14 degrees, 20 minutes). We might there- 
fore expect that the Pluto MC line on his ACG map would run right through 
London, a location on his natal MC meridian. As we see in Figure 99, Alex's 
ACG map in European detail, this is not exactly the situation. We have two 
possible Pluto MC positions for him, with the astronomically true or so-called 
‘in mundo’ position not over London at all but through Western Belgium some 
250 miles away! Why? At Alex's birth moment Pluto's latitude was 14 degrees 


221 


4a p20 
AD! sce" — 18° 2~ 
Or eB Fos Sag 
a\ 142° 2192 © ~ i 
PM 2 2” 
wo 098 ang 2 &S Ae 
117 AA S420,9°/ _o6* VN A7S\ 
a Bo eee eee 
a Fo! OC 4a 8 \ 
: ZS 9ST 5s \ 
, iW ~8> vies a 
/ i poy Alex BR \ 
23°] ¥ 17°M 16g (12/ Jul 17, 1965 \7\ logel 
OU ee ne nnn London,ENG ia | 
Mat 7 04:2200PMGMD POPS 
02" “4. ZONE:-01:00 4g] 92"! 


aN O000W10'00" 


woes BINBOOO" OK hae: 
170 “S37 4 pit/ 
x” area ty 

' RR O 
18'\ ‘ 481 5521' < ; 00° - 

: . €: *« a3 : \ oo i , 

07° 1622° \. ard = 

18 491” 
ee Me > | _ Dd| R« sf S or me 
a aueses 14°¥20° a 


above the ecliptic with its projection onto the ecliptic (not its actual position) 
bringing it to London's MC meridian. This London ACG position for Pluto 
would then be called its zodiacal placement’. 

Which position to use? Fortunately, for most planets the differences are 
negligible. What to do if there is an occasional but significant difference? Jim 
Lewis had no doubts about this as he felt that the 'true’ or in mundo position 
was what ACG was all about. I tend to agree with this or at least feel that the 
difference for an MC or IC line of even 250 miles is still within the orb of ef 
fectiveness that he recommended. I would see Alex's Pluto MC line as being 
centred over the Netherlands and Western Belgium (see Figure 99) but would 
also view him as being a Pluto-on-the-MC type of personality (see Figure 98). 

Neat and tidy? Case closed? No way! There has been commentary from 
people of Alex's age (the so-called Generation-X era) stating that the zodiacal 
position for their Pluto (on either the MC or the IC) makes as much sense to 
them as the 'true’ or in mundo placement, if and when they take their life 
experience into account. That is, the projected placement of an angular Pluto 
(zodiacal) seems to manifest as (or even more) strongly then the 'true’ one (in 
mundo) some few hundred miles away. 

Pluto's rising and setting lines at extreme latitudes can result in the dif- 
ferences between in mundo and zodiacal positioning becoming even larger. 
In experimenting with various charts proposed for Czar Nicholas II, I found 
one example that yielded a difference of 1000 miles! For this one set of pro- 
posed birth data’, dangerous Pluto was placed on the ascendant of the chart 
relocated to the site of his assassination - the northern city of Ekateringburg 
(56 degrees, 51 minutes north) - yet his in mundo ACG ascending line was 1000 
miles away from there! The issue of whether I had the best data for him or 
not does not change the fact of possible large differences between zodiacal and 
in mundo placements, especially at extreme latitudes. 


NOTES 


1. Thanks to Graham Dawson of Esoteric Technologies Ltd (Australia) for including 
an 'in mundo’ vs. zodiacal switch option in Solar Maps. 


2. Various times and birth dates have been proposed for Nicholas II and used in stud- 
ies by astrologers. The one that highlighted the great difference to me was: 31 May 
1868 [new style], 00:30 AM, St Petersburg, source unknown. The data set that I have 
the most confidence in however is listed in Rodden's Astro Databank program: 18 May 
1868 [new style],00:30 AM, St Petersburg. Source: W Bruce Lincoln's book, “Nicholas 
IT, page 603. 


APPENDIX SEVEN 


JIM LEWIS 


5th June 1941 - 21st February 1995 


At Washington D.C, in 1992, to the applause of his fellow astrologers Jim Lewis 
marched up to the rostrum to receive astrology's nearest equivalent to the 
Oscars. Voted by his colleagues, he was awarded the Regulus Prize for astro- 
logical research and innovation. This was final confirmation of what the public 
had recognised for years, that Jim Lewis was an exceptional and original as- 
trologer. 

Astro*Carto*Graphy, (A*C*G) - the system of mapping out fines where 
the planets were angular for a particular time onto a terrestrial map - was Jim’s 
baby. Locational astrology was not new - perhaps originating long before the 
Three Wise Men converted stellar observations onto maps to locate a special 
birth. Imitators argued that 'Right Ascension’ could not be copyrighted. But 
Jim was the first to develop detailed world maps, a complete technique, a 
systematically-written 'cook-book' analysis, a trade-mark, software, a commer- 
cial service, lectures, courses, articles and a certified examination in the field. 
He made what was an obscure technique, accessible. On that no one could 
touch him. 

Jim's astrology used only the most basic and established theories. In 
working with angular planets, he followed the tradition of the Chaldeans. 
Ptolemy later defined the technique. More recently Michel and Francoise 
Gauquelin refined, scientifically proved and replicated this planetary effect 
With the notable exception of Carl Jung, Jim seemed to bypass most Arabic, 
Roman and recent western astrological developments. As well as the IC and 
the distant outer planets, his work focused on visible celestial bodies in visible 
locations: planets rising, setting and at the midheaven. Although he accepted 
the recent addition of lines for Chiron, the Node and the ecliptic, he rejected 
lines displaying planetary aspects despite their commercial possibilities. 
Throughout he retained this clarity, integrity and purity of his theory. In this 
sense Jim was a scientific astrologer, living out the potential of Saturn conjunct 
Uranus in Taurus in his 10th house. 


Astro*Carto*Graphy was an evolving technique. Jim built up his knowl- 


225 


edge with real examples based on feedback from grateful clients all over the 
world. He studied and wrote about the A*C*G of current affairs and the charts 
of prominent individuals of the day. His observations were acute, radical and 
persuasive. I remember his comments on the Queen's A*C*G, with her natal 
Saturn MH line running along the British Isles and the essentially conserva- 
tive nature of a country that makes one person superior to another by virtue 
of their birth. And he had equally sharp observations for the country of his 
birth, where he found it difficult to express his strong Pluto, without feeling 
alienated. This was a love - hate - love relationship. 

As a lecturer,Jim was undoubtedly a ‘class act’, a star attraction on the 
international circuit. He worked with his own excellent material: original, solid, 
tried and tested astrology backed up by amusing anecdotes. True to Pluto ris- 
ing in Leo, his height and manner gave him a strong, dramatic presence and 
with the Sun and two planets in Gemini a coherent and flowing delivery. 

Jim Lewis, born James Slayden on 5th June 194] at 9:30 am EDT in 
Yonkers, NY, had an intriguing life outside astrology. He recounted tales of 
hunting deer and other wild animals whilst living in a commune at Big Sur in 
the redwood forests of California. Later he spent a year on a sparsely popu- 
lated Caribbean island. He was also a significant, though discreet, member of 
the San Franciscan gay community. 

But it was Astro*Carto*Graphy that made Jim Lewis renowned around 
the world. It was his greatest success and yet he was also a victim of the work. 
Jim was strongly litigious and considerable resources and intense emotion, 
were directed into protecting his trade-mark. And he was not immune to the 
negative potential on A*C*G's ‘planetary power lines’. In the mid '80's he was 
struck by a vehicle while crossing Military Road, in Sydney, Australia on his 
Mars Ascending line. In a strange way he felt that his illness was brought on 
by the pressures of the A*C*G business. Behind the tragedy, there is a cruel 
irony that someone so cerebral (Sun and Moon in Air) should have been 
afflicted by a brain tumour at the age of 54 years. 

His work will live on. It is a little known fact that his Astro*Carto* 
Graphy handbook that accompanies the world A*C*G maps has been the most 
successful astrological publication outside sun-sign titles and the ephemerides. 
Besides the continuing operation of his three A*C*G licensees in Oregon, 
London and Zurich and his many certified A*C*G interpreters, he has been 
published posthumously. His friend and certified Astro* Carto*Grapher, Erin 
Sullivan has published his final work “The Psychology of Astro*Carto*Graphy" 
as part of the Penguin Arkana series. 


God, we astrologers were lucky to have a mind like his among us and by 
heaven, we will miss him. 


Robert Currey 
Cert. A*C*G Interpreter Equinox, London 


226 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Allen, Peter. The 91 Before Lindbergh. UK: Airlife Books, 1984. 
Baigent, Michael, N. Campion and C.Harvey. Mundane Astrology. UK: 
Aquarian Press, 1984. 
Barker, Stan. The Sign of the Times. Minnesota: Llewellyn Publications, 1986 
Blake, A.G.E. The Intelligent Enneagram. London: Shambhala, 1996. 
Bohm, David and F. Peat. Science, Order and Creativity. London: 
Routledge, 1989. 
Campion, Nicholas. Zhe Book of World Horoscopes. Bristol: Cinnabar Books, 1995. 
Cozzi, Steve. Planets in Locality. Arizona: AFA publications, 1997, 
Erlewine, Michael and Margaret. Astrophysical Directions. Michigan: 
Heart Centre, 1977. 
Ebertin, Reinhold. The Combination of Stellar Influences. Arizona: AFA, 1972. 
Fenton, Sasha. Astrology on the Move. London: Zambesi Publishing, 1998. 
Guttman, Ariel and Kenneth Johnson. Mythic Astrology. Minnesota: 
Llewellyn Publications, 1993. 
Hamaker-Zondag, Karen. De Astrologische Windroos. Amsterdam: 
Symbolon, 1993 
Hand, Robert. Planets in Transit Pennsylvania: Whitford Press, 1976. 
Hand, Robert. Horoscope Symbols. Massachusetts: Para Research, 1981. 
Hand, Robert. Essays on Astrology. Massachusetts: Para Research, 1982. 
Harding, Michael and Charles Harvey. Working With Astrology. London: 
Arkana, 1990. 
Hathaway, Edith. Navigating by the Stars. Minnesota: Llewellyn 
Publications, 1991. 
Hill, Lynda and Richard. The Sabian Symbols as an Oracle. Australia: 
Hill & Hill P/L, 1995, 
Howland, Ronald. A Chronology of American Charts. UK: Poz Publications, 1998. 
Kharitidi, Olga. Entering the Circle. San Francisco: Harper, 1996. 
Lavoie, Alphee and Lorraine Welsh. Essentials of Intermediate Astrology. USA: 
NCGR, 1995. 
Lewis, Jim and Ariel Guttman. The Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps. 
Minnesota: Llewellyn Publications, 1989. 
Lewis, Jim and Kenneth Irving . The Psychology of Astro*Carto*Graphy. London: 
Arkana, 1997. 
Lovell, Mary. S. The Sound of Wings . London: Hutchinson, 1991 
Mayo Jeff. The Astrologer's Astronomical Handbook.U.K.: LN .Fowler & Co., 1982. 
McEvers,Joan. (ed). Astrology of the Macrocosm. Minnesota: Llewellyn 
Publications, 1990. 
Mckenna, Terence. The Archaic Revival. New York: Harper, 1992. 
McRae, Chris. The Geodetic World Map. Arizona: AFA, 1988. 
Meadows, David. Where in the World with Astro*Carto*Graphy. Arizona: 
AFA Publications, due 1999, 


227 


Morell, Virginia. Amelia Earhart .National Geographic, January 1998. 

Morse, Eric. The Living Stars. New York: Amethyst Books, 1988. 

Pottinger, Maritha and Zipporah Dobyns. Planets on the Move. San Diego: 
ACS Publications, 1995, 

Rudhyar, Dane. An Astrological Mandala. New York: Random House, Inc., 1973 

Rudhyar, Dane. The Lunation Cycle. New York: Aurora Press, 1986. 

Sakoian, Frances and Louis Acker. The Astrologer's Handbook. London: 
Penguin, 1974. 

Wertheim, Margaret. Pythagoras’ Trousers London: Fourth Estate, 1996. 


228 


THE 


DIMENSIONS 


OF 


ASTROLOGY 


An additional article by Martin Davis 


THE DIMENSIONS OF ASTROLOGY 


In Astrolocality Astrology, ] discussed the use of three major locality techniques: 
Astro*Carto*Graphy, Local Space and Geodetics. Having completed the book, 
I now ponder how the three techniques might be related to each other, and to 
the usual, ecliptic-based techniques as well. Here is the result of my thinking to 
date, in the form of a model of the relationships, which I'll call 'The Dimen- 
sions of Astrology’. 

Note that the ecliptic-based techniques are shown to the left of the dia- 
gram, off of the Earth and out into the sky, mediating between the two. These 
ecliptic techniques focus on the characteristics of an event-moment (the natal 
or event chart) with a description of the subsequent ‘when’ of things - an un- 
folding in time - as seen from the use of transits, progressions and directions. 

As we move right we next find the A*C*G technique. It is placed closer 
to Earth because of its emphasis on earth location. As stated on the diagram, 
‘where’ is now added to 'when’, with the A*C*G method. The information gained 
when including A*C*G with our usual astrology is portrayed as the gap be- 
tween the two. I call this gap, ‘Our Potential’ or using the metaphor of food, 
'The Recipe’. 

Moving further to the right and closer to Earth, we find the Local Space 
(LS) technique. With LS we have even more Earth emphasis. Local Space points 
to the 'what is’ of our earth experience. It's how we feel about things. In the gap 
between ACG and LS we see that 'Destiny Points’ (also called Bi-parans) con- 
nect the two. Here, the location information of ACG is merged with the 
directional indicators of LS. This merged information of location and direction 
relates to ‘Our Experience’ and in terms of the food metaphor, 'The Meal’. 

Moving left to right and getting even closer to Earth, the next gap de- 
fines the relationship between Local Space and Geodetics. Here, the 'what is' of 
our experience is merged with how we fit in with the various cultures found on 
Earth, our resonance with the ‘Spirit of Place’. I call this gap, ‘Our Alignment’ 
and its food metaphor is 'Digestion’. 


Presently, I'm reviewing Geodetic charts to asses their value as personal tools 
for shamanic type activities such as ritual, healing and finding one's life pur- 
pose. Expect more updates in the next revision of this book! 


DIMENSIONS OF ASTROLOGY 


Cenc: A GG MAPS LOCAL SPACE 
- AND - 
ana er ey = RELOCATION MA RATS 
cueets GEODETICS 


MAPS AND 
CHARTS 


DIRECTIONS our | OUR | OUR 
mip-pomrs «| POTENTIAL /EXPERIENCE! ALIGNMENT 


RETURN cuarrs! THE RECIPE | THE MEAL ‘DIGESTION’ 1 
cr re a OOS 
etc. i t i 


MOTHER 
EARTH 


‘GAIA’ 


