ASTROLOGY
ITS TECHNICS AND ETHICS

C. AQ. LIBRA

PUBLISHED BY P. Dz. VEEN
A.MERSFODRT (THE NETHERLANDS)



Tl E> R.ARY
OF THE.

UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS

MERTEN J. MANDEVILLE
COLLECTION IN PARAPSYCHOLOGY

AND OCCULT SCIENCES

133.5
L63aEg









1 <$.

Abr. Lincoln. Gladstone.

Febr. 12. 1809, 2.34 a.m. Dec. 29. 1809, 8.43 a.m.

%*

Vincent van Gogh. Goethe.

Mrch. 30. 1853, 10 a.m. Aug. 28. 1749, 11,55 a.m.

* *%$
mf HI

<.wfWa JL
v$5& ^

Aug. Bebel.
Kaiser Wilhelm II.

Febr. 21. 1840, 8.30 p.m. Jan. 27, 1859, 3.4 p.m.



H. P. Blavattky. A. Bc-sant.

Aug. 12. 1831, 1.26 a.m. Sep. 30. 1847, 5.41 p.m.

t-'t-

Col. Olcoit. Rud Steiner.

Aug. 2. 1832, 11.34 a.m. Febr. 27. 1861, 11.22 p.m.

t-r

A. Russell Wallace. Martin Luther.

Jan. 8. 1822, 2.14 a.m. Oct. 31. 1483, 12.55 p.m.



ASTROLOGY
ITS TECHNICS AND ETHICS



COPYRIGHT, FEBR. 1917,

BY

P. Dz. VEEN AMERSFOORT THE NETHERLANDS.

PRINTED BY S. W. MELCHIOR, AMERSFOORT (THE NETHERLANDS).






THE EVOLUTION OF MAN BY C. AQ. LIBRA.

C. AO. LIBRA ASTROLOGY ITS TECHNICS & ETHICS

P. DZ. VEEN PUBLISHER, AMERSFOORT (THE NETHERLANDS).



ASTROLOGY
ITS TECHNICS AND ETHICS

BY

C. AQ. LIBRA
authorised translation from the Dutch by Coba G.

Ferme 1'oeil et 1'oreille a la prevention;
Grains 1'exemple d'autrui ; pense d'apres toi-m6me :

Consulte, delibere, et choisis librement.

Laisse les fous agir et sans but et sans cause
Tu dois dans le present, contempler 1'avenir.

Vers Dor&s de Pythagore, p. 181.

FABRE d'OLlVET.

1917

PUBLISHED BY P. Dz. VEEN, AMERSFOORT (\ THE NETHERLANDS)
^nn he ordered through :

L N. FOWLER & CO., LTD.
PUBLISHERS _ BOOKSELLERS
I, Timor Street, London, E.C.4






33,
klcu E<^

CONTENTS.

Introduction; 1). One reason of astrology being discredited. Is astrology an empir-
ical science? A university of astrology. How great a part astrology might play
in the sphere of education. The material and occult sciences. The religions. How
the initiates hid their wisdom for humanity.

Well-known men who studied Astrology; 4). Arabian, Chaldean, Egyptian etc.

priest-astrologers. Why Moses forbade the study of astrology. Thomas Aquinas,
Albertus Magnus, Dante, Tycho Brahe etc. People who were born at exactly
the same time.

The Laws of Karma and Reincarnation; 10). Needs astrology a foundation of
belief? What is the Ego? Can we co-operate and oppose? A rational explana-
tion of the different phases in our existence.

The Use of Astrology; 13). How to learn to make the most of our time. Astrology
combined with the medical science. What we have to do and to leave undone.

The Aspects; 14). The phases of the planets.

Strong and Weak Natures; 15). How we can, by our fear, strengthen the influence
of the inharmonious aspects. Is it not highly useful to be fore-warned?

he Cosmos; 16). The solar systems. The Central Sun. The backward movement
of the Equinox. Velocities. Terms used in cosmology. Geocentric astrology and
Copernicus' heliocentric system. Sidereal time.

Fate and Free-will; 20). Harmony, Disharmony. Evil. If a physician intervenes

^ or if birth is delayed. Exalted individualities. The ordinary man. The Will of the

Logos. Is there no chance? Plaything of circumstances. Has the harmony which
now manifests itself, always ruled the Cosmos ? Asteroids, Comets, Meteorites. The
strife in the Heavens.

something about Symbology; 24). Spirit, soul, matter. The circle, the cross, the
dot. The symbols of the zodiacal signs. The dark and white serpent.

The Horoscope; 27). What is a horoscope? Sectors in the horoscope. Birth by day,
birth during the night. How to guess the hour of birth. Horoscopes cast for
the north of Norway. Intercepted signs. The direction of the movement of the

signs and the planets.
ie Twelve Signs of the Zodiac; 29). The Law which bears all these things. The
light of the eternal Truth reflected in the lower kingdoms. A triplicity which joins a
quadruple. The four castes of the Hindus. The rulers of the signs. Corresponding

- parts of the Body.
The Ascendant or Rising Sign; 37). Appearance, temperament, general character.
The characteristics and tendencies which the native has made his own. Qualities
not sufficiently developed. The form of the body, the transition of one sign in

another. The impulsive ARIES, the dogmatic TAURUS, the ever changing GEMINI,
the sensitive CRAB, the kingly or lordly LEO, the systematic VIRGO, the indolent



VIII

LIBRA, the Jealous SCORPIO, the open and frank SAGITTARIUS, the earnest and
cautious CAPRICORN, the idealistic AQUARIUS, the not appreciated PISCES.

Influence of the Decanates on Body and Character; 50).

The Planets; 51). Benefics and malefics. Fiery, airy, earthy and watery planets.
Ennobled and degenerated action. Delay of action. The Sun the ruler of all life.
The Moon the giver of form. A time for working out material experiences, and a
time for meditation. Influence of the Moon on vegetation etc. Moon-influence
on the medical herbs gathered during certain constellations. Critical days with
acute illnesses. The winged Messenger of the Gods, Mercury. The movement of
Mercury. Beauty- or pleasure seeking VENUS. The God of War MARS. Optimistic
JUPITER. The purifier SATURN; the moons of Saturn. Zeus the conqueror. The
New Path finder URANUS. Nebulous NEPTUNE.

Handwriting 69) of the different planetary types. The style of writing. Movements,
rotations, moons, distances, densities, mass of the planets. The seven senses and
the planets.

Planetary Spheres; 70). An electric hypothesis. The outer side of things. The real
Substance. Maya. A reciprocal action. The protecting atmosphere. Our solar system
and its different copies and reflections. Physical manifestation of the heavenly
bodies. The stamp of the whole Cosmos. Velocity of light. Electric and magnetic
constants. The atom with its electrons. Adhesion, cohesion, magnetism. The out-
ward boundary of the real planet. The substance of the planet. The essence. A
close copy of the Cosmos. Natures that are strongly psychic and magnetic. The
same colours in the aura (Reichenbach). Time and space.

The Aspects; 75). Angular distances between two planets expressed in degrees.
When an aspect comes into operation. Harmonious and inharmonious influences.
Mathematical lines in nature. The crystals. Lines of splitting.

Outlines of the Aspects in Relation to the Evolution.of Man; 77). Our character
our destiny. The courage to take up the cross.

Outlines of the Aspects; 80). About character, the first difficulties, a strong
source of help, a hard struggle, the fruit of a victory, a harmonious union.

The Aspect-Influence of the Planets; 81). The bounds within which an aspect
exercises its action.

Mundane Aspects; 83). Proportional distance.

Polarity; 85). Electric, magnetic and electro-magnetic natures.

The Astrological Houses; 85). The immediate surroundings or the material cir-

cumstances of the native. What many astronomers believe. The half of the vault
of heaven occupied by one zodiacal sign. When man out of the spiritual world
descends into matter, when he takes part in the full life. Mature age. Old age.
Occult houses.

The Twelve Houses as different Fields of Activity; 87). A close connection of
these 12 parts and the 12 zodiacal signs. How a highly developed Ego observes
the expression of a planet through a house otherwise than a low developed Ego.
An easy survey.

Meaning of the 12 Houses; 90). What each house can represent. I. THE STRUGGLE
FOR LIFE, II. UNFIXED POSSESSIONS, III. ABILITY, IV. FIXED POSSESSIONS, V. ENTER-
TAINMENTS, VI. SERVICE, VII. SOCIAL LIFE, VIII. INHERITANCES, IX. JOURNEYS,
X. THE MORAL STANDPOINT of the native, XI. ATTITUDE TOWARDS HUMANITY,
XII. SECLUSION AND LIMITATION. The. orbs of the houses.

Calculation of the Horoscope; 92). Tables of Houses. An Ephemeris for the year
of birth. The difference between standard and local time etc. Accepted standard



IX

times. The Sidereal time. Correction in the sidereal time. Examples for calculating
the ascendant. Cusps of the houses. Intercepted signs. Positions of the planets.
Dragon's head and Dragon's tail. The Part of Fortune. Corrections. Insertion of
the planets in the houses. Calculation of a horoscope for a place with southern
latitude.

Influence of the Planets in the Ascendant; 102). Influence in Asc. of the Moon,
Sun, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune.

The Sun, the Moon and the Remaining Planets in the Different Houses; 105).
The Nodes. The concrete synthesis of the horoscope. One short glance at the
qualities of the native's soul.

The Sun in the Twelve Signs; 111). How the Ego expresses itself. Is the real

power of the Ego revealed by the horoscope ? Horoscopes of well-known leaders
and great men in various spheres of action. The limitations to which the Ego is

subjected in his expression.

The Moon in the Twelve Signs; 118). Passing tendencies of the personality.
"Pigeon-hole work", the condemned system. How to judge the various combina-
tions. General action of the planets in the signs on the parts of the body that
the signs represent.

General Action of the Planets in the Houses and Signs; 122). How to develop
our faculty of combining.

Action of the Aspects; 124). Prosperity, limilations. The character and the action of
the aspects of the Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune.

The Ruler of the Horoscope; 133). General notice. Planets that exercise the

greatest influence on the life. The position of the ruler.

Planets in Strong or in Weak Positions; 134). Sign of strength and of weakness.

Intellect, Memory and Character; 135). The nature of the feelings as evidenced
in thought.

Marriage, Friendship, Enmity etc.; 136). Friends, open enemies, secret enemies.
The reason wiry here is sympathy and there antipathy may be found. Indications
for sympathy. Delay in marriage. Very strong attraction. An unsurmountable wall,

misunderstanding.

Health and Disease; 139). To find the part of the body that is liable to suffer.
Accidents and sudden death. When serious suffering is indicated. When it is

dangerous to operate.

The Calling; 140). The nature of the callings that come under the different planets.

Travelling; 142). When there is a tendency for travelling. A desire for a fixed
abode. The place where to go and to dwell.

Judging the Horoscope; 144). How to analyse the horoscope. The strong chief
influences and the weaker, subservient ones. Birth-scheme.

General Remarks; 147). Influence of the planets on body, feelings, intellect. Sub-
jective and objective consciousness. Adaptability and one-sidedness. The planets
dispersed. Parallels. Faults which may be controlled by our will. Moon-action
with a woman. Strength of character. Vitality. Critical degrees. The dark and light
part of the lunar month. Work that must be done in this incarnation.

The Influence of the Fixed Stars; 150). Can there be any life in the Cosmos that
does not excercise its definite influence on any other integrant part?

Sensitive Places in the Horoscope. Duration of Life; 151). The giver and
the destroyer of life. Sensitive points.



The Progressive Horoscope; 152). Repetition everywhere in nature. Great periods
of culture. Growth of the embryo. Periods of earth-development. Rhythm.

Zodiacal and Mundane Directions; 154). The most reliable directions for predic-
tions. When the personality and when our spiritual growth come more to the fore.

Calculation of the Progressive Aspects; 155). Of the planets. Prog, parallels. Orbs.

Sun-Revolutions; 158). Year-horoscopes. Illustration of the calculations.

Moon-Revolutions; 160). Month- and day-horoscopes. To fix the exact day on
which an event takes place that is indicated by one of the progressions.

Transits; 161). Daily transits of the planets across the important places in the
radix horoscope. "Saturn hunting the Moon." An indication of the native's good
and bad times. Transits to the positions of the progressive planets. Transits

through the different houses of the horoscope. Fortunate and unfortunate months
and days. Parallels in the daily course.

Eclipses; 164). The Metonic cycle. An illustration of the action of the eclipses in

the horoscope of King Edward VII.

New Moon (Lunations) and Planetary Conjunctions; 164). Influence on the events
in the month following it.

Periods of the Planets; 166).

The Planetary Hours; 167). Names of the planets and the days of the week in the
various languages. Mental and religious practices at definite planetary hours.
Those who doubt will after investigation probably change their opinion.

The Pre-natal Horoscope and Correction of the Time of Birth; 169). The
moment of conception. The "rule of Hermes." The horoscope of the astral body.
Future sex of the embryo. Premature death of children. Deformations, teratologic
products. How to make little corrections in the time of normal births. A table to help in

calculation. Horoscope for the Epoch. How the day of Epoch may be found. The
hour that the conception took place. Illustration. Correction of the birth of
President Wilson. Another more simple method of rectification. Why Astrology is

so fascinating a study.

Action of the Directions; 176). The moral standpoint of the person. Inborn ten-
dencies. Influences operating on resultant qualities. Duration of the action. Cli-

macteric years. How the progr. Moon-aspects bring us into contact with people,
typified by the planet that she aspects.

Mundane Directions, Protections; 179). Proportionate distances from the cusps.
Mundane parallels. Twelve-yearly, yearly and monthly profections.

Directions of the Sun; 181). Fittest mental attitudes by which one may fight and
endeavour to overcome the inharmonious influences.

Moon-; 186). Mercury-; 189). Venus-Directions; 190). The most important progres-
sive aspects.

a
Example to illustrate the Planetary Influences; 191). The great Titanic"-drama.
The hor. of the best-known passenger W. T. Stead; the hor. of captain Smith.

Countries and Towns coming under the Different Signs of the Zodiac; 194).
Karma of the nations, of tribes and countries. By-circumstances. The Londoner and
the Yankee, the Prussian type. Children born of colonists in America.

The Zodiac of the Head; 198). Centres of consciousness. Organs for the 6th and
7th sense.

The Zodiac of the Eye; 201). Eye-Diagnostics. How Ignaz Peczely discovered this

quite new method of diagnostics. Colour of the eyes. Symptoms of degeneration.



The eye, "the mirror of the soul and of the body." The gift of deciphering the
cosmic hieroglyphs. Diagram. Illness, a process of recovery for the soul.

Astrology and Medicine; 206). Astrology of great use in medicine, as regards
diagnostics as well as therapeutics and prognosis. The relation between the planets
and certain diseases. The relation between definite planets and definite veget-
able and mineral remedies. The influence of the planet-colours on certain diseases
and on the state of the mind. The "house of disease". The Mind. Vitality. The
strong influence of materialism on the science of medicine. The critical days.
Why do e.g. infectious diseases appear good-natured one year and malicious
in another year?

Diseases coming under the Planets in the different Signs; 211). In what direc-
tion we have to look for it. A short study of the characters. Diseases of the
physical body, of the soul, of the mind. An astrological prediction about syphilis.

Embryology and Heredity with respect to Astrology; 218). The moment of

impregnancy. The sperm, the ovum. Inheriting of the qualities of father and mother.
The qualities of the Ego. What is inherited from the parents? Horoscopes of
parents and child with regard to heredity compared. The embryo in its develop-
ment. The whole secret of the continuity of a race. Evolution. The growth in

proportion to and in harmony with the qualities of the resp. planets. The devel-
opment of the eye, and of the heart. The development from the earliest periods
of animal consciousness up to human consciousness. The famous "Tabula, Sma-
ragdina Hermetis".

Zodiacal Man; 225).

The Cosmos in Relation to Number Sound and Colour; 226). Numbers are
symbols with a profound meaning. The cabbalistic values of the numbers. The
exact order of the atom-weight of the metals and the 7 planets in the Chaldean
order. Close relation between colour, sound and the planets. The "Harmony
of the Spheres".

Proportions in the Cosmos in Nature and Art; 228). The world is built upon
the power of numbers. The numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 12. Kant and the three-dimen-
sional space. The higher dimensions. Proportions in the Cosmos, the Golden cut.
The so-called Divine proportion in the human body, with mammals, birds, insects
and snails, straight-winged insects, beetles, in the vegetable kingdom, in the
mineral kingdom, in crystals, in the distributing of water and land in

; real, inspired
utterings of art, in temples, in the distance and revolution of the planets etc.

Man, the measure of all things.

Astrology and the Bible; 235). What is the Bible? The ancient Christians' fish-
symbol The Old and New Testament. The Indian-Brahman, Persian, Egyptian,
Jewish, Christian, Slavonic, American era. The twelve Apostles. The twelve tribes.
The 12 sons of Jacob. The 4 quadrants of the Tabarnacle. The breastplate of the
Jewish highpriest. The new Jerusalem. The holy city. The four animals. The life

of Jesus. John the Baptist. The three wise men. Bethlehem. Jesus baptised. Bread
and wine. Judas with the 30 pieces of silver. The crown of thorns. The scarlet
robe. Simon of Cyrene. Golgotha. The soldiers. Joseph's many-coloured robe. The
story of Job. The drama of the crucifixion.

Conclusion and Esoterics; 245). Has the earth really a soul? (KEPLER). Radiating
matter (prof. CROOKES). The density of the ether (OLIVER LODGE). A con-
formity between an atom and a solar system. Experiments taken by DE ROCHAS
and DURVILLE. The aura (REICHENBACH). The power in thought.

Treatise on Evolution; 249).^; Slowing ot the vibrations. One condition of vibration.

Astrology, the soul of Astronomy. Short esoteric treatise. The physical Sun, the



XII

spiritual Sun. Ptolomy's astronomical system. The integral parts permeate each
other. The ape a degenerated man. The opinion of DARWIN and RUSSELL WAL-
LACE. Original SIN and original VIRTUE. The Nebular theory of Kant and Laplace.
Why is there so much evil in the world? The Hierarchies. Are thoughts secreted
by the brains? The reflections of the Cosmic-thoughts. A new planet manifests
itself when a great World-teacher rises. Symbols of the mystery-planets. The
12 signs in connection with the 12 Nidana's of the Buddhists. Where shall we
have to seek the three supposed planets?

Conclusion; 255).



INTRODUCTION.

Many of those who take up the study of astrology complain of the
great obscurity of the books of study, of the many technical terms,
incomprehensible to the laity, and especially of the difficulties of the
calculations, which latter are unsurmountable for those who have no
knowledge of mathematics and cosmology.

I will, therefore, try to remove these obstacles, by using foreign
names as little as possible, and by simplifying the calculations in such
a manner that any one of average intellect and with a knowledge of

ordinary arithmetic, may be able to follow this study without much difficulty.
Further, I will try to be as brief and clear as possible, omitting all

superfluous digressions, and yet giving a fairly complete survey of that
branch of Astrology which is called Genethliacal that

Astrology, which
applies to nativity or birth.

This branch is by far the most important and therefore counts most
students.

Astrology has the advantage over other occult sciences in that it

asks no "belief" of the student, but only investigation. Any one who
takes up the study of his own birth-horoscope, with some assiduity, will
be able to demonstrate by numerous facts, looked up by himself, that

Astrology is true, is founded on facts in nature.
To this end it is positively necessary to know the exact time of

one's birth, and as, for the last half century, the hour of birth had to
be filled in at the registry *), one might go there for inquiry.

Next you will have to obtain an 2
ephemeris ) for the year in which

you were born; you may then cast your own horoscope and study it.

You will find how extremely interesting this study is!

Those who know by research and experience, how much our life,

our doings and dealings, our moods, in fact, all that happens in the
world, is influenced by the powers that work in the Cosmos, often
wonder how it is possible that a science such as astrology, which
comprises the study of those cosmic powers, has relatively so few
students and so many opponents. It is strange, for it is easy to show
the truth of astrology practically, to any one who wishes it.

One reason of astrology being discredited is surely to be found in
the rubbish brought into the market under the name of astrology and

1
) This is the case on the continent, but not alas, in Great Britain, where date

suffices.
2
) Raphael's Ephemeris for each year, price 1 Sh. per year. Published by W.

Foulsham & Co, London.



planetlore, but having nothing whatever to do with it in reality. In

every branch of science, however, fraud and charlatanism are to be found.
But the principal causes are the dogmatism of modern religions and

the rapid development during the last centuries of materialism, which
has brought man to accept only that which he can observe with his
three-dimensional senses x

) and explain through well-known physical
laws, regardless of the cause, the foundation of these phenomena.
We need not accept anything supernatural in astrology, according to
this doctrine also everything happens along natural and unchangeable
laws but also it teaches us that in the Universe laws

; operate of which
we still know very little; we see them in their outward results, but
so far we can only guess how they work. For this reason astrology is

for the greater part an empirical science, it is founded on observations
which have been made for centuries.

Astrology begins to gradually draw the attention of the public, of
late. In the United States there is already a University of Astrology,
where one may graduate in this science, and the time is coming when
the elements of astrology will be taught in schools as a part of cos-

mology, and for England as well, that time will come, however conser-
vative the English may be. Is it not far more useful for a child to
understand something of life in the Cosmos, than to be able to give
the exact date of the settling of Flemish weavers in Pembrokeshire, or
to know on which day for the first time the eldest son of the English
sovereign was called Prince of Wales?

What great a part astrology might play in the sphere of education,
in self-education as well as in the hands of parents and teachers! By
going carefully through the children's horoscopes, they would get to
understand their pupils better and realise that under certain planetary
influences they could scarcely help acting in an unusual manner and
thus many an unjustly inflicted punishment will be left aside.

Every child bears at his birth his own characteristics in him, and
these will never change, they are inseparable of his individuality
and this the pedagogue has to take into account, if he wants to make
of a child what can be made of him. And for this, accurate knowledge
of his characteristics and talents, on which his horoscope throws light,
must show the way. As things often are now, failures are made of
them

; ignorant of the laws, they try to lead the child in a direction
not meant for him, and the natural talent gets suffocated. Yet, it will
assert itself later, but only after much disappoinment and failure.

The material sciences, however far advanced, are still far from being
complete, and moreover deal with the outer side only; totheFoun-

!) By three-dimensional senses we mean the physical senses, by which we can only
percept that which is physical in length, breadth and height Our astral and
mental senses, however, allow us to make observations in higher dimensions;
they allow us to see through physical matter.



dation of things the real Cause they do no penetrate and they
are not as yet sufficiently advanced to set themselves with some
ground up as competent judges of the occult sciences.
We may respect the great progress of the material sciences, and

apply ourselves to them with the greatest interest, if we still bear in

mind that they are far from being omniscient and that to a high degree
it is narrow and conceited and in the true sense of the word
"unscientific" that a great thinker like e.g. Hackel, the German
"Darwin" puts his professoral veto on theological, cosmological, teleolo-

gical and ethnological proofs of immortality. Not everything can be
reduced to a palpable scientific ground."

Though the astrological influences do not fall beyond the sphere of
natural laws, they do fall beyond the circle in which our sciences of
nature move and therefore material scientists are incompetent to put
their veto on them. How often are the material scientists compelled to

change their theories and hypotheses, in order to accept in the end that

which, centuries ago, was acknowledged to be true by the occult science?
We need only point to the atom-theory which has been altered repeatedly
and the theory of vibrations. And likewise it will happen with chemistry,
the great number of elements will melt together into the one Ur-element
that Occultism has, and of which the other elements are only vibration-

proportions. Occult Science has always been some centuries in advance
of the material sciences; it is the mother of those sciences and the
mother of religions as well; for it contains the esoteric, the inner side
of all religions. And astrology is a part of the occult sciences.

All religions are based on the esoteric doctrine and are the different,
outer (exoteric) expressions of it. However much they differ, they are
all necessary for all men have not evolved in the same direction, each

;

differs in his conception of truth. His present conception serves him as

long as it is needful to his evolution. After that he searches, guided
by intuition in another direction.

Change of conception in religion should not always be ascribed
to inconstancy; it is often the consequence of moral and intellectual

growth.
All religions are views upon the great castle of truth, seen from different

angles and through a more or less dense veil of dust. All reveal to us one side
of the Universal Truth, but in proportion to the veil, more or less hazy
and twisted. They are all, however, useful and needful to their followers.

The occult sciences, which give us the key to many mysteries of
life and evolution, were wrapped in a shape, comprehensible to initiates

only, and this is to a sense the case with our Bible as well. This is

not only for the reason that humanity as a whole was not yet ripe to
understand the truths which they contain, but also because the initiates

were officially forbidden to speak of them, during the long time of

persecutions to which they were exposed. So they kept their wisdom
for humanity in this way.



4

In Papus *) works a passage alluding to this runs as follows : "Quand,
par suite des persecutions du pouvoir arbitraire, les inities furent obliges
de sauver les principes de leur science, ils composerent d'apres les astres
un livre mysterieux, resume et clef de toute la science antique, et livre-

rent le livre aux profanes sans leur en donner la clef. Les alchimistes

comprirent le sens mysterieux de ce livre et plusieurs de leur traites,
entre autres les douze clefs de Basile Valentin, sont bases sur son inter-

pretation. Guillaume Postel en retrouva le sens et I'appela "la Genese
d'Henoch"; les Rose-Croix le possederent egalement . . . On trouvera
des developpements a ce sujet dans les derniers chapitres du "Rituel de
Haute Magie", d'Eliphas Levi."

Thus this science, predestined to be the guide in our life and to light
the world with a gigantic flame, has been smouldering like a little spark
under the ashes, and things have come to such a pass that many study
astrology secretly, because they fear to be regarded as half-mad by those
friends who hold a different opinion.

Well-known Men who have studied Astrology.

It will not be superfluous to begin with a few historical notes, in
order to show how, through all times, there have been eminent men,
whose names sound throughout the ages, who believed in astrology
and devoted their lives to this study.
We will not give long lists of famous Arabian, Chaldean and Egyptian

astrologers, seeing these do not mean much to the majority of people.
We will only mention the names of El Batani and About Wefa who
compiled tables for calculating the tangents and cotangents. The Arabian
astrologers seem to have been the first that used the sinus in their calcula-
tions. Astronomer, astrologer and mathematician were at that time united in
one 2

person". ) The first written scientific works on astrology are by
Claudius Ptolomy. He wrote in the year 126 A.D. his well known
four books on the Influence of the Stars. The books are called: the
Tetrabiblos or Quadripartite. The third and fourth book contain "the Study
of Births". Ptolomy was a follower of the Alexandrian school; he was
highly celebrated during the reign of Adrian and Antony Pius. He corrected
the existing tables of the fixed stars and drew up new tables for the
movement of sun, moon and planets. Thirteen books contain the famous
Ptolomaic System. He seems to have founded his system of astrology,

!) Papus (pseudonym G6rard Encausse) Science Occulte (Trait6 elementaire). In
this work on p.p. 145 150 a very clear representation is given of the way in which
such a "livre mysterieux" came into existence and you will see by it how absolu-
tely impossible it is without knowing the key, to understand such a book.

2
) Lord Bacon says regarding this: "It shows very little common sense to classify

astronomy among the mathematical sciences; this classification does harm to its

dignity." Bacon de Dign. et Increm. Science (I, III, CIV).



which the Tetrabiblos contain, on the books of Hermes, the first great
Egyptian astrologer who lived before Moses.

In Persia there lived, during Darius Hystaspis' reign, the astrologer
Gjamasp, surnamed Al Hakim, the Wise One. He was the counsellor
and friend of the king ; and of him it is told that by astrological calcu-
lations he predicted the coming of Jesus and of Mahomet. He also

predicted that the religion of the Persians, which was based on magic,
was doomed.

In India, China and Egypt, later on in the South of Europe as well,
astrology was highly renowned.

Of the Greek astrologers we need only mention the names of Anaxi-
mandre, Anaxagoras and later Pythagoras, Plato, Aristotle, Procles. A
saying of Hippocrates is a.o. "that the man who is ignorant of the
science of astrology, deserves the name of fool rather than that of physician."

The astrologer Nigidius Figulus, friend to Cicero, predicted at Octavius'
birth, that the latter should become ruler of the world.
We know that the ancient Persians, Babylonians, Assyrians, Chaldeans

and ancient Egyptians studied astrology, and that they performed their
deeds of some importance, at times indicated by astrological calculations
to be the most favourable. History shows us how great a power the

priest-astrologers obtained by this knowledge; even monarchs felt

dependent on them. Would this have been possible if their prophecies
had not proved irrevocably true, if their knowledge were only show
and their predictions fraud? Reason answers this question decidedly in

the negative. These priests had moreover great astronomical knowledge.
A proof of this may serve: the calculation of the regularly recurring
eclipse of the sun and moon are still made by means of the Chaldean
Zaros. Our present day astronomers could not correct this formula.

It was chiefly the Arabians who brought astrology to the West,
though it is probable that long before that time Egyptian astrologers
introduced it in Europe.

The Egyptian astrologers were the trusted counsellors and Wends of
the reigning kings; it was in fact they who ruled.

The ancient Jewish books, the Kabbalah and the Talmud are alto-

gether based on astrological principles. Here a great part is played
especially by the value of numbers of the planets and of the letters of
the Hebrew alphabet. Of the books of the Kabballah it is especially
the famous Zohar which preaches a wonderful philosophy of life in the
Cosmos compared to and connected with that of man.

Andrzej Niemojewski says : "The great Book of Revelation which that
illumined Soul read, was the Heavens, the Stars were Lettertypes, the
Words Constellations, and the Chapters Astralperiods. And one reads
there, that Humanity shaped its earthly Order after the great Timepiece
of the World, and modelled and corrected its philosophy, its ethics, its

social ideas after it."

In Pythagoras' school the knowledge of mathematics and astrology



6

An ancient Jewish Stellar-Chart.

were compulsory, the latter especially being studied in connection with
sound and number.

All old occult manuscripts, among which our Bible may be numbered,
are full of astrology; and if Moses forbade the study of astrology, it

was most probably only by reason of the unscientific way in which it

was studied. It was much more difficult in those days for one to make
use of astrological tables, education not being so common as to day;
hence there was as much deception and pretence to fortune-telling as
to day, nay more so, as the age was a far more ignorant and super-
stitious one. It was this abuse and charlatanism which Moses forbade.

The astrologers Thracyllus (father and son) were the counsellors of
Tiberius and Nero. Of the father a peculiar anecdote is known, men-
tioned by Tacitus and Plutarch. Thracyllus knew too much of the secret

thoughts and plans of the emperor Tiberius and the latter tried to get



rid of him. He took him a walk on a high wall with the purpose of

throwing him off. And he asked Thracyllus if he knew everything
concerning himself. "Yes" was the answer. "I know that I am in great
danger of life but Your Majesty as well ; for I know also that you will
outlive me only by 24 hours." The emperor who had an implicit belief
in Thracyllus did not carry out his intention.

Thracyllus, the son, predicted Nero's future imperial dignity.
M. Champollion, found, in one of the Ramses-tombs, dating of the

19th and 20th Dynasty (14001133 B. C.), an astrological table of houses,
which clearly indicates the accuracy of their calculations. They knew
the relation between the twelve signs of the Zodiac and the several
parts of the human body.

The British Museum contains a number of horoscopes written on
papyrus. The Egyptians made their predictions chiefly according to the
so-called secondary or moon-directions.

Plato, Socrates' pupil, studied the influence of sun and moon on the
formation of both sexes.

Heraclites, a pupil of Plato and Aristotle, wrote a treatise on the

Hyleg in the horoscope and on the influence of the sun as life-giver.
Europe received its civilisation from the east and also the science

of astrology as we already saw. From Greece and Italy it penetrated
into the other countries of Europe.

One of the best-known Christian astrologers is Paul the Philosopher
( 850).

Among the popes we find several students of astrology; e.g.
Pope Sylvestre (9921002), Pope John XX and John XXI were keen
astrologers.

Thomas Aquinas says : "The celestial bodies are the Cause of all that
takes place in this sub-lunar world. They influence the human actions

directly, but not every action caused by them is inevitable." (Summa,
Quaest XV, art. V).

Further the famous Albertus Magnus, bishop and architect who wrote
a symbol-system which is held in high honour with Freemasons. He
says a. o. : "All that nature and art produces is driven by celestial

powers. The signs in the sky and the celestial bodies existed before
all other created things and therefore influence all that came into existence
after them, etc."
We may mention: Roger Bacon, Guido Benati, court-astrologer to

Frederick II. And Petri Abano or Francisco della Stabili, friend to Dante,
John de Luna, Cardinal Peter d'Ailly (13501425).

Dante, whose words: "Only follow your star, the haven of glory
awaits you", are well known. In another passage he says: "Astrology
is the most sublime, the noblest science, without any faults."

Giordano Bruno, Ruysbroeck, Jacob Boehme and Spinoza, believed in

astrology. Further Hieronymus de Manfredi, professor of medicine at the

university of Bologna ( 1460) who a.o. combined astrology and medicine.



8

Johann Stdffler, professor of mathematics at Tubingen, computed the
exact date of his death, which was to take place by an accident. By
inviting friends and staying quietly at home, he tried to evade the

possibility of an accident. In a dispute, however, wishing to prove his

arguments, he went to a high book-shelf, to seize a folio-volume,
he fell and got a deadly wound.
We may mention the names of Melanchton and Johann Miiller. The

former wrote a.o. a preface to a work of the astrologer Schonez and
delivered lectures on astrology.

Tycho de Brake (1546 1601) tried to raise astrology to a religion.
He says e.g.: "The stars rule the lot of man, but God rules the stars."
He was however not blind to the abuse, made of astrology.

Paracelsus studied especially the influence of the planets on the

vegetable and mineral kingdom and discovered a large number of

medicines, by comparing the microcosmos (man) to the macrocosmos
(our solar system), led by logic and intuition.

Keppler, the famous astronomer was an astrologer as well. It is

universally known how he predicted to Wallenstein, at that time young
and unknown, his future glory. He predicted several details concerning
his career, the enemies he would make, his eagerness for fame and
glory, his marriage and financial circumstances and the exact day of
Wallenstein's death.

Of William Lilly, the well-kwown London astrologer it is known
that he foretold the great London fire in 1666. His astrological works
are still being studied.

Pico de Mirandola, a fierce opponent of astrology, gave at his death
the most striking proof of the truth of astrology, for he died at the exact
hour that the astrologers had predicted.

Dr. John Butler, another opponent of astrology, who in order to be
able to oppose it with more success and to show its weak points,
took up the study of astrology, changed tactics after that study,
viz. instead of attacking astrology as he originally intended to
he wrote a book to show the truth of astrology.

Professor Max Miiller once said, that many of our greatest men of
intellect studied astrology, but that the majority of them never expressed
their opinion on that point for fear of being ranked with the quacks in
this line, the so-called astrologers and the fortune-tellers.

Francis Bacon, baron of Verulam, one of the greatest minds of his

time, believed in planetary influences, just like Isaac Newton, the great
researcher and thinker. He defended astrology against the astronomer
Halley by saying: "I have studied the subject, Mr. Halley, you have
not!" Newton never expressed his opinion on things he was not certain
about. His great caution in this direction is as well-known as his enormous
scientific merits.

Of the German astrologers we may mention J. W. Pfaff. He vehe-
mently protested against the neglect of astrology and wrote a treatise



9

on Napoleon's death, which was to coincide with a conjunction of Mars
and Saturn (May, 5th, 1821).

Leibnitz studied astrology and believed in it. That Goethe, Shakespeare,
and also e.g. Sir Walter Scott believed in astrology is not to be doubted.

Valentin Weigelius, in his "Astrology Theologized" (1649) calls astrology
the light of Nature; "it comprises everything, all sciences, arts, branches
of knowledge, qualities and conditions of body and spirit and further
all conditions and occurrences in the Universe. Everything takes its

origin in the planets, and according to our using or abusing the influences,
we feel them to be good or bad." He says that astrology and religion
ought to go hand in hand and that the study of the Macrocosmos (the
Universe) as well as of the Microcosmos (man) is meant by it. "What
is outside us in our surroundings is also in us and the expression :

"a wise man rules his stars," does not allude to the stars in the Macro-
cosmos, but to those in the Microcosmos. The sky of the Macrocosmos
with its perpetual revolution corresponds exactly to the inward sky of
the Microcosmos." The last is, as it were, a microscopic reflection of
the first in all its changes as well.

It would be easy to enrich this list with a large number of names
of enlightened thinkers who all studied astrology, but for my purpose
the above-mentioned names will suffice.

Is it astonishing that he who has fixed his opinion by more or less

thorough study and research, compares the general public to a colour-
blind man, who is positive that red and green are the selfsame colour ?

Those who ignore the influence of the planets, without preceding
thorough research, are simply J

guilty of pedantry, ) seeing that they
prefer their immature, rash judgment, founded on tradition only, to that
of great thinkers, who throughout all ages have devoted their lives to
the inquiry after the effect of powers of nature, little known as yet.
We say once more, investigate and you will find the truth of it affirmed

in your own life.

It would be highly interesting to collect particulars, at the registrars'
of people who were born at exactly the same time and the same place.
If the data of births were correct, one would find that such lives were
remarkable in their similarity.

In history several cases of this kind are known, among which the

following characteristic example:
In a paper of 1820 is mentioned the death of Samuel Hennings, who

was born on June 4th 1738, at the same moment as King George HI,
and at the same place, St. Martin. He came into business in October

l
) Among these we may count prof. Franz Cumont who a few years ago opened

a campaign against astrology, put down in his work "Astrology and Religion among
the Greeks and Romans." He bases his work on the standing-point: "The starting-
point of Astrology is, of course, a belief."

Wrong, professor I The starting-point of Astrology is observation. If the basis of
a work is false, we may leave the conclusion out of account.



10

1760, when George III mounted the throne. He was married on Sept.
8th, 1761 just like King George, and after both lives had gone quite
parallel, both died on January 29th 1820, at the same hour. They had
the same number of children, of the same sex.

The Laws of Karma and Reincarnation.

Of these two laws, which, according to Theosophy rule the Universe
and therefore man, a brief explanation is desirable.
We give in a few words the leading idea of these two laws, because

they spread some light on the cause and the substance of the planetary
influences. For the study of astrology it is absolutely unnecessary that
one believes in reincarnation. Astrology needs no foundation of belief,

astrology only asks thorough inquiry and this is inevitably followed by
"believing" ("knowing"). I know a number of men who do not believe
in reincarnation, yet nevertheless are convinced astrologers, though, in

my opinion, they will after continued study acknowledge both these laws.
The law of Karma l

) is not likely to be a stumbling block to any
one. What rational being does not accept the inexorable law of cause
and effect? We see the proofs of it daily, round us.

Reincarnation is difficult to prove, one can become convinced of

the truth of this law by logical reasoning only; for what somebody else
thinks to have seen or experienced of former lives, is no proof for us

personally.
The Law of Karma or of cause and effect, teaches that every action,

every thought, carries its inexorable consequence with it; and for man,
this consequence, this reaction, can be shown in the present or in a

following earthly existence. So he creates, in his present life, the con-
dition of the future, and the conditions of the present are the product
of his actions in former earthly lives.

Man, the individual 2
soul, the Ego ) is, after a certain period born

1) The word Karma means "action", which will later on become clear when
we speak about the meaning of the Q aspect.

2) What is the Ego?
The occult science tells us that the Ego, the I, the Higher Self, all of them

names for the same Principle is the God who lives in man; speaks when the
soul acknowledges to be an I ; in other words, it is the Divine spark in us, without,
however, being God himself.

Dr. R. Steiner says as to this: ...."By that which precedes the misunderstanding
that the occult science asserts that the I is one with God, is likely to arise. But it

does not assert at all, that the I is God, but that it is of the same nature and the
same substance as God. Does anybody assert that a drop of water taken from the
sea is the sea, when he says that that drop is of the same substance as the sea?
If one likes to use a comparison, one can say that the I is related to God, as the

drop is to the sea. Man can find something divine in himself, because his inner
substance is derived from that which is divine."



11

anew in a material body, which latter serves him as an instrument for
observation and action, to have experiences which he cannot learn
on the higher astral and mental planes. This being born again ought
not to be mixed up with transmigration of souls, of which is said that
a human soul can pass into a lower creature. There is no regression,
but continuous evolution. We see this everywhere in nature. Man is

born as man, and remains man, though in his former periods of evolu-
tion he had to go through the mineral-, plant- and animal condition,
which does not mean that he was a mineral, a plant, or an animal.
There are higher, no lower conditions to be reached by him

; except in

very rare cases. We must go along with the current of universal evo-
lution on earth and we can only delay our own evolution, in spiritual
and moral sense, by our thoughts and actions, but check it, we cannot.
We shall see presently how we, by means of astrology, become able
to take our evolution in hand, so that we, instead of being stragglers,
get more and more in the front rows.

Every man has several weak points in his character and he feels

intuitively that it is his moral duty to take up the hatchet against these
faults, which, as occultism teaches, began for the greater part in former
incarnations when he knew less of the cosmic laws than now. However
low man may be morally, there is something in him which tells him
what is good or bad, however much the conceptions of good and bad
may differ with the many races and nations; for until man attains

Perfection, these conceptions are only relative. His standpoint in evo-
lution points out to him the correct place where he has to be and that

standpoint, combined with the good and bad consequences created in

former lives, determine his place and rule of conduct in this incarnation.
We usually speak of good and bad Karma, though the terms har-

monious (A) and inharmonious (n) karma would be better. There can
be no question of bad, because aim and final result are harmony.

So at a certain time, man becomes conscious of his duty to try and
conquer his lower nature with all its faults and bad habits, until he no
longer is the slave, but becomes the master. According to his success
in this, he not only becomes gradually the ruler of his own destiny,
but also, in time, he obtains the mastery of the mineral, vegetable and
animal kingdom and of the forces of nature which play a part in them.
But in order to become the master of nature, he must first have con-

quered himself, i.e. he must be able to look upon his lower nature
the non-self, unselfishly as that which is transitory and so subservient
to the higher self, which is constant, universal the Ego.

This is the final purpose of our earth-evolution and whether we
want or not we must go along with this earthly growth. As we have seen,
we can co-operate and oppose. In the first case we bring ourselves in

harmony with the Cosmos, i.e. the Source of all life, in the last we
shut this Source off to ourselves and that means disharmony in the
functions of our physical body, disturbances in our thinking, feeling,



12

and will, and at length it means the death of our physical instrument
our material body.
With the death of the material body man is deprived of the organs

of observation and action on the physical plane, and so this matter disap-
pears from his sphere of observation, he wakes in a world, previously
invisible to him, the astral world, which permeates the material world.
The astral world therefore is in the same place, but invisible to the

organs of his material body.
He dwells now in the astral, or emotional body, with astral organs for

observation. He already possessed this astral body during his earthly
existence, but he could not then consciously make use of it, because
the material body thwarted him. The duration of his abode in the astral

world, with its various spheres, is determined by the moral standpoint
which he occupied during his physical existence and at the end of
it he also dies on this plane and he becomes conscious on the mental
plane, which permeates both the astral and the physical sphere
and so is in the same place. His body or vehicle is here the mental
body which was already present during his earthly and astral life,

but undeveloped. In this mental sphere, the true abode of man, he
assimulates the experiences of the two preceding states; and these are
transmuted into characteristics and potentialities, which combined with
those obtained in former lives, must incarnate with him in a new body
when the time has arrived.

So man has three bodies: the physical, the astral and the mental
which correspond with the three worlds: the physical, the astral, and
the mental worlds, which we therefore may regard as the three bodies
of the earth.

It follows that man has already in his earthly existence a body for
each of these three worlds.

Thus man (the Ego) is many times born in a different physical body,
with long intervals, during which on earth the conditions change con-

tinuously. Thus does he undergo many-sided experiences.
The laws of Karma and Reincarnation rule our whole life without them

;

we cannot imagine a rational explanation of the different phases in our
existence, nor answer the question why one is born in the deepest
wretchedness with a bad character, a sick body, in surroundings where
any moral progress seems impossible, whereas another sees the light
in luxurious surroundings, which offer him all opportunities to develop ;

while at the same time he enjoys a healthy body and an excellent
character. Are there greater contrasts imaginable and is there a reaso-
nable explanation to be found without accepting the inexorable, but
just law of cause and effect and the law of reincarnation?

But this is not the place to dwell at length on these things, for
further study I refer to works on Theosophy. A few words, however,
on these important points in question I thought necessary, because, in

my opinion, they are to a certain degree inseparable from astrology;



13

in order to understand the one well, the other is necessary. They
supplement one another.

"Astrology is the "how" of life, Karma the "why"."

The Use of Astrology.

From that which precedes, it becomes clear to us, that in order to
find harmony, we must learn in our present physical existence to have
our lower self, with all its desires and habits, ruled by our conscience,
correctly speaking our higher self, which is our real being. That higher, true
self, struggles to conquer "the dragon," the lower self, by which it gets the

opportunity to re-unite with its divine Source.
What is it that astrology teaches us? It shows us clearly the

weak points of our character in all their nakedness, no hidden
corner of our character need escape us. Astrology teaches us how, by
calculation, to find the time when these weak points in our character
will be liable to manifest, and so we can arm ourselves beforehand
and stand firm towards that time. In this way we can together with
other methods such as meditation, self-communication etc., warn off these
disturbances in our physical and spiritual health.

Further we can find, by calculation, for what kind of activity certain
times are most suitable, we learn to make the most of our time,
and, because we choose the fittest time for our work, we give the best
we are able.

How astrology enables us to understand our fellowmen better, and
therefore, to treat them with more tolerance, I have already observed.

Everyone has weak spots in his character, and he who has the habit
of criticising and slandering his fellow-men, is blind to his own faults,
and for this reason does not advance one step in evolution.

Of incalculable use artrology may be combined with the medical
science. Those doctors, who, in their profession, use astrology in diagnosing,
in administering medicine, in operating upon their patients, etc., at points
of time astrologically suitable, know this from experience. The number
of physicians who study astrology is already very large in the United
States, and increases steadily.

All that happens in nature and its subdivisions is the outcome of
natural laws and powers that work in the universe; and by studying
carefully these cosmic powers, we learn what we have to do and to
leave undone in order to live in harmony with these powers.

From the history of the ancients we learn that in early times, me-
dical and occult knowledge including astrology, were united in one
person, the priest-physician. Of this we find traces throughout the

middle-ages, but the astrological knowledge we see recede more



14

and more into the background. It is a fact that at present we are rapidly
progressing in opposite direction. The anathema, which suppressed this

knowledge for ages, seems to be lifted.

The Aspects.

Aspect means: view, appearance; here literally, the way in which
the planets look at each other, i.e. the phases of the planets.
We have to regard the aspects of the planets as the x-rays of the

Cosmos which shine through us and bring the weak places of our
characters temporarily to light. It is, as it were, a warning that something
in one direction or another should be improved.

How is it that a certain relation between aspects, e.g. an opposition
of the Sun to Saturn, causes a heavy feeling of depression with one,
whereas with another it passes unnoticed? Because the former was
born at a moment when e.g. the same opposition or an aspect of equal
effect took place in the Universe, which caused his bodies to be respon-
sive to the depressing and limiting Saturn-influence. His physical,
astral and mental bodies are, as it were, tuned to the key which was
then in the Cosmos. If the same tone, or a con-sonant of it, recurs to
the atmosphere, the bodies react and the influence of Saturn is felt as

depression or in general, limitation on the physical plane as well as in
our thoughts and feelings. As this rate of vibation keeps altering through
the rapidly changing positions of the planets and the twelve signs of
the Zodiac in regard to the earth, it is evidently necessary to know
the exact moment of birth, in order to make our calculations accurately.

So we must imagine that all that is born, all that is brought into

being, receives, at the moment of coming into existence or of birth, the

impress of our planetary system as it is at that very moment, and as it

is in relation to the spot on earth where this birth takes place. This is

true not only for man, but also for animal, plant and mineral, and it is

true as well for all that we begin, for every new activity or enterprise,
for every new thought which is born at a certain point of time. Hence
we see how important it is to select the correct time in starting new
enterprises.

Not that one can make a success of something wrong or evil by
choosing the best time to commence; the statement which precedes
merely says that by choosing a bad time one accumulates difficulties.

In choosing the right time one goes along with the current, so to say,
and therefore remains in harmonious condition.



15

Strong and Weak Natures.

Timorous people, the type who cross the bridge of adversity before

they reach it, had better leave the study of astrology to stronger cha-
racters, because on these people the knowledge of future "bad" aspects
might have a paralysing effect. They lack the courage and strength to

struggle with their lower self, and by their fear they would only streng-
then the influence of the planet. It is scarcely advisable to acquaint
such people with something regarding "bad aspects" in the future. That
there are natures who cannot bear the truth, is however, no reason to
withhold the truth from those who are strong. On the contrary, the

knowledge of it is of incalculable use. The weaker ones, might also
derive force from it, if they only thought of the good aspects which
are sure to come and will help them. Astrology teaches how long the
bad time should last, and knowing that it is only a passing cloud, a
temporary darkening of the sun, they will gain strength.

Among those who study some branch of occult sciences there are

many who say selfconsciously: "Astrological influences cannot do any-
thing to me I have outgrown them." To be sure, these people do
not realise the full significance of their words and moreover they are
blind to their faults and foibles.

No one ever rose to the height of being above these influences! Even
the highest Ego, who incarnates on this earth of his own free will, has
submitted himself to limitations. They influence all of us, the lowest as
well as the highest, but through the latter they will be expressed in

another, a more harmonious way, that is te difference. For him also,

however, it is of the greatest use to know when he will be subjected
to certain influences, when he will be best fitted for one kind of work,
when for another. He will be able to use these influences for his benefit;
for what else does the expression: "to rule one's stars" signify but to
use the planetary influences in the right direction, for one's benefit. The
influences tend to make us by certain old faults in our character
act in this way or the other but we need not give in slavishly, we may
rise above them. Therefore, is it not highly useful to be fore-warned?



16

Astrologically speaking the Cosmos consists of the Sun (O) the
Moon (D) and the planets Mercury (^), Venus ($), Earth (), Mars 1

(d ),

Jupiter (20, Saturn (f?), Uranus 2
(#) and Neptune (^). )

We do not take into account the Asteroids or Planetoids and the
Meteorites, because they do not influence present humanity perceptibly ;

neither the Comets, because we know so little of their influence. We
also neglect the moons of the various planets, the influence of which

!) Poolster = Pole-star; Keerkring = Tropic; Zuiderkruis = Southern Cross;
Equator des Kernels = Equator of the Heavens; Ecliptica = Ecliptic.

2
) In Holland the symbol g is also used for Uranus; and for Neptune *-.



17

is not to be taken into account. Our moon only forms an exception:
by her short distance from the earth, and especially because she was
one with the earth before her separate existence, she influences it and
all that is on it, very strongly.

Our whole planetary system moves in retrograde direction through
the twelve signs of the Zodiac, which like a gigantic ring encircles our
Cosmos with numerous other solar-systems. All these solar-systems
revolve round one Central Sun, which is supposed to be in the con-
stellation Pleyades (Alcyone).

Our solar system wants 26.000 years to revolve 360 through the
12 signs of the Zodiac. This is called a cosmic year. Our planetary
system is now in Aquarius which sign it has recently entered, and

26000
where it consequently will remain = 2160 years.

This movement is in opposite direction to the order of the 12 signs
of the Zodiac and is called in astronomy the Precession (i. e. backward
movement) of the Equinox. The velocity of this retrograde movement
is about 50' a year.

As all planets revolve round the sun and we observe them from the
earth, we see the sun and the planets successively pass through the 12
different signs, and with greater velocity when they are closer to the
sun; in the order in which the planets are placed above. The moon,
however, surpasses the fastest moving planet (Mercury). It does not
only move with the earth once in a year round the sun, but has a
revolution of its own round the earth which takes only 28 days. When
the planets are being treated, these velocities will be spoken of at

greater length.
There is also an apparent movement of the 12 signs of the Zodiac

as well as of the planets and the moon to know, the movement caused
by the revolution of the earth round its axis in 24 hours. Through this
revolution round the axis, the whole sphere, passes in 24 hours each
point of the earth's surface and thus every two hours (on an average)
there will arise another sign of the Zodiac on the eastern horizon.

For some readers a short explanation of certain terms, used in cos-

mology, will not be superfluous; for we have to use these terms
repeatedly, if we want to do without unnecessary definitions.

The celestial equator is an imaginary circle drawn at the heavens
(round the earth), in the produced part of and parallel to the earth equator.

The ecliptic is an imaginary circle drawn at the heavens round the
earth, which intersects the celestial equator at an angle of 23, 27'. In
this plane of the ecliptic move the planets including sun and moon.
With a deviation of only a few degrees north and south of it, the
planets move in the plane of the ecliptic, and so it is possible that two
planets at certain times seem to be in the same place in the heavens
(conjunction), and at other times form certain angles (aspects) with the earth.



18

To this angle formed by the ecliptic and the equator, we owe ihe
seasons in the temperate zones and the monsoons in the tropics.

The deviation north and south of the ecliptic is called northern and
southern declination. When two or more planets have the same decli-

nation, no matter whether one is north, the other south, or both the
same declination, they form also an aspect with each other and this

aspect is called a parallel. The calculating of the aspects is the foundation
of the astrological technics.
We take the earth as the centre of the cosmos in our calculations

and the astrological tables for calculating the planetary positions and
those of the Zodiacal signs are founded on this. So that we work

=
geocentric astrology (Gea earth), in contradistinction to heliocentric

astrology, which considers the sun (helios) as centre when making
calculations. The latter is to be looked upon as only an attempt to see
the astrological influences from another point of view; it has given
but unsatisfactory results so far. Perhaps it will promise fair for the future.

It is altogether logical that man, on account of his being a part of
the earth, takes the earth as centre when calculating astrological influences.

The astronomers often reproach the astrologers for doing this they
assert that the latter follow the old Ptolomaic System, whereas Coper-
nicus clearly proved that the sun is the centre round which all planets
move. What does it matter after all, if only this is taken into account
in the calculations. Every one looks upon himself personally as the
centre of all that surrounds him; which is natural to him, and he is

also prone to do so with his planet, the earth, however much this

disagrees with the phenomena his physical eyes witness.

Astrology is, as it were, the psychology of astronomy, and just as
a vast field of psychology lies fallow, so it is the case with astrology.
Both promise fair for the future.

In astrology we use the so-called sidereal time, to which we have
to reduce the local time for our calculations. If we did not do so, we

!) Aquator = equator, Ecliptik = ecliptic.



19

should make a mistake of about 4 minutes for every 24 hours. For while
the earth revolves once, the sun moves forward about one degree in

the Zodiac so in order to see from the earth the sun
; exactly in the

Zenith or, put otherwise, in the meridian, the earth has to revolve one
24 X 60

degree more than 360, which lenghtens the day =^ = 4 minutes.

That is why the so-called astronomical day is not 24 hours, but 24
hours 4 minutes, whereas the sidereal day is 24 hours exactly. So
that 6 hours usual time = 6 hours 1 minute sidereal time.

In the astrological planet-tables (Ephemeris) the position of the

planets is given for noon at Greenwich and for every day at noon and
at Greenwich the sidereal time can be found. This will cause trouble

only in the beginning. For all places on the meridian of Greenwich we
have only to take into account the difference in time before or after
noon but for

; places on another degree of longitude also the difference
in time with Greenwich must not be overlooked. Every degree difference
of longitude makes a difference of 4 minutes in time. In places east of

Greenwich, i.e. places with eastern longitude, it is later (the sun rises
there earlier) and in those with western longitude it is earlier. E.g. San
Francisco, which lies on about 120 western longitude has a difference
of time of 4' X 120 = 8 hours with Greenwich. So when it is noon at

Greenwich, it is as early as 4 a.m. in San-Francisco. (See example,
calculation of a horoscope, page 92.)

For inserting the 12 zodiacal signs in the horoscope we must take
into account the latitude of the place (distance from the equator), seeing
that the signs rise more slanting according to the increase of distance
from the equator, so that a certain irregularity arises. We need however
not trouble about this, because the so-called tables of houses have been
drawn up for different latitudes.

The image of the Cosmos, or as it is called macrocosmos in contra-
distinction to the microcosmos (man), is impressed in all that exists in

nature, so in the human body as well; hence the name microcosmos,
meaning cosmos on a small scale.
We shall see presently that each of the 12 signs of the Zodiac

corresponds to definite parts of our body. According to the different

signs the planets are placed in at the moment of birth, and according
to the positions of the zodiacal signs at the moment in relation to our
earth, the body of the native is shaped.
We must observe here that it is not so much the signs of the Zodiac

which have that influence, as the parts of the heavens in which these

signs are seen. The 12 signs were in exactly the places, respectively,
in the time of Ptolomy, the father of astrology, but since that time the
zodiacal sings have shifted a little (about 30 degrees) and this is no longer
available. The astr. ephemeris takes this into account and therefore the astro-
nomical ephemeris points out other planets places than the astrological.



20

Fate and Free-will.

(Harmony, Disharmony.)

The Sun is the l
symbol ) of individuality and its position in the

horoscope indicates the nature of the limitations imposed on the inner
man, the Ego. The sun, therefore, indicates the real man, who should
guide and rule the lower dispositions, that which is animal. It is the

symbol of the will, of the heart, and is positive. It is limited in its

expression and opposed by the personality which is symbolised by the

negative and receptive moon. The moon absorbs the influences of all

planets that form an aspect with it and these influences combined with
the signs of the Zodiac which produced them, form the limitations of our
personality and these limitations hinder us from giving expression to that
which the sun expresses in our horoscope. The moon symbolises the intel-

lect. Only when intellect and heart cooperate, we might expect harmony
of spirit, soul and body.

In the horoscope, the body is represented by the ascendant i.e. the

sign which at birth is rising upon the eastern horizon, and the three

Q). O +) combined we find back in Mercury (). It is the mission of

, the symbol of mental thinking, to bring home that which the Cosmos
sets to be learned. Not before we have fulfilled that through 8, the
moon and the ascendant can no longer darken and limit our real Being.
Then the O will rule 3) and ~K whereas in the 3) plays the chief part.

In ft the cross (+) is placed over the 3), i.e. the soul is limited in its expres-
sion by matter, ft is the symbol of limitation and where Saturn is in bad
aspect to sun or moon, this limiting influence is expressed as melan-
cholia, fear, care, coldness etc. This is especially the case when the
moon and Saturn are in bad aspect. A good aspect of sun or moon
and Saturn is a great help. Saturn is the planet of Karma and where
that is not overcome, no rising is possible. Saturn is the purifying power
which possesses us and works in us, before it is given to us to lift

our consciousness. Nobody gets to that without Saturn's guidance. It is

the "Watcher on the Threshold", symbolised in the Bible by Satan.
In astrology it is called "the greater evil" opposed to Mars, "the lesser

evil", symbolised in the Bible by the Devil. So we see that evil is

relative and serves to make us wiser by hard experiences and prepare
us for a higher state of consciousness.
The vehement appearance, therefore, of the depressing and limiting

Saturn-influence in anyone's life is usually a token that the time for

higher spiritual development has come. It is, as it were, a feeling of

home-sickness for the real Home. Man is born at the moment when
the positions of the planets and signs are in exact accordance to his
Karma and character and that point of time is in fact already defined

by the moment when the sperm comes into contact with the ovum.
This moment is called the epoch.

J
) Symbology will be spoken of at greater length later on.



21

The rule of Hermes (See Chap. The Pre-natal Horoscope and Correc-
tion of the Time of Birth), already used by Ptolomy in correcting the
time of birth, is still used for this purpose and the correct results it

often gives is the best proof of the truth of the rule above-mentioned
and we learn by it that birth happens according to fixed laws at a
definite moment, not before and not after.

This holds true for births having a normal course. And if a physician
intervenes or if birth is delayed or precipitated through other reasons?
With regard to this we can only guess. We might for instance, suppose
that such an intervention occurs along fixed laws and that even the
intervention is sure to be pointed out somehow in the horoscope. It

will certainly be worth the trouble to gather information regarding this.

If we, therefore, know the exact time of epoch, we should be able
to describe the character, the build of the body etc. of the child nine
months before his birth.

To the degree we are in tune with the Cosmos, we have developed
a free-will and we can rule the planetary influences; which means the
influences come all the same and affect us, but by rising above them
we may divert them into proper channels; we are no longer sla-

vishly subjected to them but rule them to a degree. Men high and low,
moral and immoral, all are subjected to the cosmic influences, but in
different ways. When I speak in this sense about the highest among
us, I don't wish to be understood wrongly. There are exalted individu-
alities who in a sense have liberated themselves of the cosmic influen-

ces, but only through their will having become one with the will of
the Logos, (the Creator of the Cosmos), in other words because they
have become in tune with the Cosmos. And yet, I keep supposing, even
for these highest among the high ones, that they as long as they
walk in a physical body and therefore needs must experience the limi-
tation through this, will experience a harmonious aspect of e.g.

Jupiter as helping, beatifying and benificent and a disharmonic aspect
of e.g. Saturn as depressing and opposing and limiting.

That for such exalted beings the conclusions regarding future aspects
should be modified, does not want mentioning after all that precedes
and need not be explained further. That this important point, however,
seems often to be neglected even by famous astrologers, is again and
again shown.

For the highest among us also the programme for this incarnation is

in the main outlines drawn up, but they have more personal freedom
to leave this line somewhat. They can do this without disturbing the

equilibrium, without clashing with the laws in the Cosmos, for their
will is one with the one Will that is the Foundation of the Cosmos and
that means evolution.

The ordinary man can depart from his programme but very little,

and so far as leaving his programme is permitted to him, to that degree
his will has become one with the Will of the Logos. The highest



22

freedom therefore proves to be the greatest degree of being voluntarily
bound to the Creator. Freewill of man depends altogether on his moral
standpoint in evolution.

Everything in the Cosmos happens along fixed laws. "Is there no
chance?", one might ask.

Chance is within certain limits of course the direct consequence
of man's personal freedom, his freedom to leave his programme.

The evolution of the Cosmos moves along lines traced out by the

Logos, and goes its unchangeable course. To the little personal will of
each man is given precisely as much freedom as is consistent with the
one absolute will of the Logos; in as far as it is not contradictory
to the harmony of the Cosmos. And by our weak personal will we call

"the chances" into existence, which however at the same time become
our greatest source of learning, for by these chances we clash and gain
experience.

Chance becomes therefore a condition for growth of freedom; for

by the slight chances we give rise to, through our actions, we learn to
know our lower self better and to overcome it and hence arrive at

greater freedom.
The freewill of the majority is in a bad plight, so that we can safely

assert that the greater part of humanity is not able to give a definite
direction to its life, which simply "is lived." Blindfold they follow their

Karma and the attemps they make to take the helm in their own hands,
are too weak to procure a lasting result.

Especially those who are strongly under the influence of the moon,
are apt to let fate have its course, and many planets in watery signs
make it worse still. (See watery, earthy, airy and fiery signs, page 33).

The greater part of the planets, especially the ascendant, sun or
moon, in a fixed sign (will be more gone into later), indicates a
stronger development of free-will.

A so-called bad planet, *) especially Mars in the Meridian and in

unharmonic aspect to sun and moon by the great impulsiveness which
is the consequence of this position, will make of man more or less the

plaything of circumstances. The other aspects to O and 3) may change
this a great deal.

What precedes proves clearly that by struggle only the final goal
harmony can be reached.
In regard to this we may ask of ourselves: Did the harmony which

now manifests itself always rule the Cosmos? Has this harmony been
conquered perhaps at the expense of strife?

The aswer to this cannot but run decidedly in the affirmative. Here
too harmony resulted from strife. That this harmony, however, is not

!) It should ever be borne in mind that the expressions "good planet" or benefic
and "bad planet" or malefic, are only used for shortness' sake, as is the general
usage, and these words are not to be taken in their ordinary significance. The same
regarding the expressions good and bad aspect, affliction, etc.



23

yet absolute even now, can easily be shown by means of the discoveries
of astronomy.
We must suppose that the harmony in the Cosmos arose by the

rejection of inharmonious elements, i.e. that the number of planets has
been much larger than now, and that those that had very eccentric

paths and thus threatened to disturb the equilibrium, have either changed
their elliptic path in a parabolic or hyperbolic one by the disturbing
attraction of other planets and so have been removed from our Cosmos,
or united themselves with their origin because they came through
disturbances too much under the domineering attraction of the sun and
at length flung themselves on it, after having revolved round it in

narrower and narrower spirals.
Is not this most beautifully symbolised by the bible story of the

Prodigal Son?
In this way the inharmonious elements have been gradually removed

from our Cosmos and harmony resulted. We see that just the planets
which have the greatest volume and therefore would be the most
dangerous to the others, 2|. and ft, show the leasts eccentricity in their

paths, whereas the Asteroids which are to be found in great numbers *)

between 1

the paths of 2J. and d have very eccentric paths and by this

mark the disharmony in the Cosmos. The disharmony, however is of
too little importance to cause disturbancy in the course of the other

planets.
We have to regard them as pieces of a planet that Keppler already

surmised between 1

Q|. and d on account of the large gap which was
there as regards the distances of the planets.

There is still another disharmonic factor in our Cosmos, viz. the
Comets and Meteorites. The latter show in the paths of the former.

The Comets are the gypsies of the Cosmos; they have very eccen-
tric paths and many move far beyond the bounds of our planetary
system ; many never return having been attracted by the sun of another

planetary system.
Part of the comets, viz. the greater part of those which move in

the same direction round the sun as the planets do, may have taken
their origin in the sun, just like the planets. Those of the other group,
however, which move in opposite direction round the sun, we must
regard as strange intruders, that rejected by other planetary systems in

space, were attracted by our sun and so make an attempt now to come
in 2

harmony with our planetary system. )

The swarms of Meteorites, among which the Perseides (in August)
and the Leonides (in November) are the best known, appear yearly in

!) At present there are already about 750 of them found, among which many
are beyond the paths of Jupiter and Mars. Ceres, the largest, has a surface about
equal to thrice the surface of Great-Britain. The smallest has a diameter of only

10 miles.
2
) See the works of Dr. Carl du Prel e.g. "The Strife in the Heavens".



24

great numbers, more than a hundred of these swarms have been
counted but by their slightness compared to the planets, they cannot
cause disturbance. A great many flop down on our earth, under the
influence of its attraction.

How far the comets can bring about disturbances is not known with
certainty. The astrologers know that they usually bring us no harmony,
though nothing definite about them is known in astrology.

So we see that even in our Cosmos there reigns no absolute har-

mony and as man is the image of the Cosmos, the microscopic reflex
of it as it were, it is evident that for him no absolute harmony can be
meant for the present, seeing that he moreover produces no end of

disharmony in all kind of manner.
From the astronomical discoveries we may learn still more regarding

our future.
We know that the movement of the earth (and of the other planets)

round the sun is not really elliptical but spiral shaped, i.e. with every
revolution round the sun does the earth approach this centre more and
more, and the time must come when it will re-unite itself with the sun
whence it sprung.

We must also apply this to man and the other kingdoms of nature
that are in evolution. The goal is: re-union with the Source of all life

and consciousness, re-union with the Logos which manifests itself

through the four kingdoms of nature (Man, Animal, Plant, Mineral).

Something about Sytnbology.

The houses in every horoscope represent the physical body, and the
material circumstances of life; the signs of the Zodiac, the personality,
and the planets as representatives of the Sun, the individuality i.e. the
higher, unchangeable man apart from his changeable personality and
his changeable body. The higher man rises in moral development, the
less he comes under the influence of the houses and the signs. We
realise from this how necessary it is to know the moral standpoint of
the native somewhat when judging his horoscope. We may however
word this a little different, thus,

for the houses, the body (+) ; for the signs, the soul, viz. the feeling
and the lower mind Q)) and for the planets, the spirit and the

; higher
mind (O). (O is the symbol of the Infinite). These three together
form man, or the cosmos (0). This sign is also used for the earth and
for the Part of Fortune in the horoscope. O is the symbol of the
sun; furthermore of the Ego, the individuality, the will.

j) is the symbol of the moon, moreover of the personality, of the
soul the passions and the feelings and is also the symbol of
brain thinking.



25

The sign of the earth or of man; we can regard this as consisting
of the infinite spiritual principle (O) and the material principle (+)
combined in one, i.e. as the spiritual principle, that which is

divine, crucified in matter.
We can now understand the symbols of the planets and of their

connection with the mind on which they all have there special
influence, viz. in

1

d or $ (Mars) that which is higher, spirit, is ruled by that which is

lower, matter. Impulsive thinking.
$ (Venus) spirit rules matter, by the infinite love the cross is

overcome. Rhythmic thinking.
T? (Saturn) the intellect Q)) is overshadowed by matter, hence brain-

thinking, limited (bound), dependent on matter, therefore egoistic.
Concentration.

2|. (Jupiter) thinking is risen above the limitation of matter and so
is enriched by imagination. Thus Saturn rises to the planet of intuition
as soon as matter has been made submissive.

In (Mercury) we find all symbols combined. It is the symbol of the

winged messenger of the gods, the symbol of wisdom. It represents
the love of the planet Venus, overshadowed by the intellect Q)), which
can work freely, without being veiled by matter.

The unmanifested Godhead is always symbolised by the circle (O)
and the manifesting Godhead (the Loges) by the (dot). Hence the

complete symbol of the sun (O) signifies the unmanifested Godhead
which out of itself manifests as the higher man. (The Logos, Christ the

Son.) However high man may rise, he remains always a manifestation
of the Logos and so we might accept for the man who at the end of
the earth-evolution reaches perfection and so has overcome the limitation
laid upon him by his physical, his astral and his mental bodies, the

symbol a dot surrounded by a double circle i.e. the perfect manifestation
in perfectness ().

"Radiating circle" is the symbol for electric radiant.
"Shaded circle" is the symbol for magnetic absorbing.
A is the symbol for the //e/^-element, active, masculine.
V B wafer-element passive, feminine.
= a/r-element conductive.
D eartfz-element limitating.
* chemicals reacting on acids.
Y alkaline oxidizing.

of the eternal movement in the Cosmos, also repre-
sented by J and by

^f] the Swastika. This symbol has so many other meanings that volu-
mes have been written on it.

=
ft
= Caput draconis (dragon's head), North-node.

t$ Cauda draconis (dragon's tail), South-node.



26

The influence of the dragon's head is supposed to be felicitous, that
of the dragon's tail as unfelicitous.

The usage still existing in many parts of fixing a horse-shoe over the
door by way of talisman against bad influences, takes its origin in

this sign.

V l
) The horns of the ram ; the upspring waters of the Foun-

tain; the outstretched arms of the Christ; the head.

tf The Bull Taurus bearing upon his head the lunar symbol; the
throat and neck.

n The portal of the Tempel the twins the
; ; two lungs and arms.

ss The divine germ clothed in a dense vehicle beginning to unfold
and evolve; the breasts.

Q. The awakening into activity of the latent force of the serpent ;

the heart.

tip This symbol combines the dark serpent ni with the vibrating rod
of Hermes t, the active agent which restrains and rules the senses ;

the bowels.

=0= The horizon with the sun-disc sinking beneath it ; the balance ;

the reins.

nt The dark serpentine, symboled the reproductive process of man ;

the generative organs.

# The striving arrow, the change of consciousness from the vehicle
of desire to that of the higher mind; the thighs.

% The dark serpentine of the personality, no longer in rapid motion
as in ni, yet controlled by the stilled rod of Hermes, the knees, bones.

yz The white serpent placed above the dark serpent; the action
of the living waters, transmutes the lower into the higher and at-one-
ment is achieved, the lower legs, blood circulation.

3C The fishes, the sign that as two arches connects heaven and
earth; the feet, the tissues.

i) See v. Stone "The Pathway of the Soul".



27

The Horoscope.

South angle.
Mid-heaven (M. C.) Meridian.

Zenith.

Western
horizon.)

Descendant.

North angle.
Nadir.

Birth-Horoscope for the Hague 52 5' Northern Latitude, 4 13' East of Greenwich.
May. 16. 1913. 7.50 a.m.

A horoscope is actually the position of the 12 zodiacal signs, sun,
moon and planets, at the moment of birth, and with respect to the
earth diagrammed. It represents in short: the macrocosmic image of
the microcosmos (man), i.e. the image of the macrocosmos as the man
that is born at the moment exactly, reflects.

In the diagram the outward circles represent the ecliptic with the
12 signs of the Zodiac, inserted in it.

The centre of the circle is occupied by the earth, resp. by the native
for whom the horoscope is cast. The radii divide the circle into
the 12 houses, and are drawn of the same length in the diagram
but only at the equator being so. The points where these radii

V.



28

touch the circumference, are called angles or cusps of the houses.
The horizontal, thicker line represents the equator; with to the left

of it the rising point or ascendant (the east), and to the right the setting
point or descendant (the west).

The upper half of the circle is for the planets which at birth were
above the horizon, the lower half for those which were below the
horizon at that moment.

The vertical, thicker line, called meridian, divides the horoscope in

an eastern and a western half which meet at the top in the Zenith., the

highest point of the heavens, which is usually called M. C. (Medium
Coeli). It indicates the South. At the bottom both halves meet in the
Nadir, often called I. C. (Imum Coeli), the North. These 4 points are
the 4 angles of the horoscope ; they are of very great importance, when
it is judged. We may regard the horoscope divided into 4 sectors by
the equator and the meridian with respect to the 4 seasons, viz:

South
(Zenith M. C.)

Spring Summer
East L 2 West

(Ascendant) 4 3 (Descendant)
Winter Autumn

North
(Nadir I. C.)

1. Spring. Many planets in this part gives the native many opport-
unities to progress in life and assures him the help of friends. This
sector represents youth.

2. Summer. Many planets in this sector indicates much work to be
done in the second half of life. This part represents mature age.

3. Autumn. Many planets here points out that the principal work
begins at middle age, it gives a less happy life, less energy, and less
inclination to get on.

4. Winter or old age. According to their approaching to the ascendant,
the planets' influence increases, except when they are near the Nadir,
in which point the influence is very strong. It fixes the thoughts on old

age and on life after the death of the physical body.
Many planets above the earth birth by day is in general

favourable, life offers many opportunities to the native to express himself.
Most of the planets under the earth birth during the night denotes
more latent qualities that find no opportunity to manifest in their full force.

Planets placed in the angles, especially in M. C. and ascendant,
exercise an extremely strong influence on the character, the career, and
the build of the body. It is mainly the ascendant which destines the



29

shape of the body and an experienced astrologer can often with great
exactitude mention the hour of birth (provided he knows the date) from
the build of the body and the shape of the face. If, however, there is

a planet in the ascendant or on the cusp of M. C. the judgment becomes
more difficult, seeing that these may influence the build of the body
very strongly.

The 12 signs of the Zodiac are all 30 apart, and so are the 12
Houses at the equator, but as soon as we move north- or southward
of the equator, irregularity in the size of the houses occurs, which
increases according to our moving further north or south.

The cause of this is that the signs at a great distance from the

equator rise very slanting above the horizon and therefore it often

happens that on the cusps of two succeeding houses we have the same
sign. The consequence is of course that at another point of the horos-

cope a sign is left out. At very high latitudes, e.g. with horoscopes
cast for the north of Norway, it may happen that there is the same
sign at the cusps of 4 succeeding houses, while in the next house 3
signs are intercepted. This influences of course the size of the houses very
much indeed, and in the foregoing case the 4 houses together will

occupy about 30, whereas the house following with the 3 intercepted signs
will be about 4X30 =120. I have a horoscope of a person who was
born near the North Cape, from which in the first house the signs %,
zz and DC have dropped, while on the cusps of the 10th, llth, 12th,
and 1st house the sign ,? stands. So six signs miss in all!

The signs of the Zodiac rise on the eastern horizon, so the horos-

cope turns in the direction indicated by the arrow from east through
south to west. The planets move in opposite direction from east through
north to west and from west through south to east. It will be understood
that the former has its cause in the revolution of the earth round its

own axis and the latter in the inherent progressing movement of the

planets. This must be borne in mind when we insert the planets in the houses.

The Twelve Signs of the Zodiac.

~
N. Sign Sign Good Manifestation Bad Manifestation

1 V Aries the Ram impulsive, pioneering over-estimate,
deceiving

2 tf Taurus the Bull conservative, solid dogmatic, obstinate
3 n Gemini the Twins inspirational, movable unreliable, cunning
4 25 Cancer the Crab economical, receptive retiring, over-sensitive
5 Q. Leo the Lion faithful, self-concious bombastic, proud
6 np Virgo the Virgin methodical, analysing narrow-minded,

criticising
7 =0= Libra the Balance harmonizing indolent



30

NO.
uu Sign Sign Good Manifestation Bad Manifestation

8 nx Scorpio the Scorpion powerful, mystical haughty, suspicious,
jealous

9 * Sagittarius the Archer philosophical, intuitive rebellious, restless
10 ^ Capricorn the Goat persevering, serving slaving, plodding
11 s: Aquarius the Man(Wa- idealistic chaotic

ter-bearer)
12 X Pisces the Fishes universal love moral death

In colomns 5 and 6 an attempt is made to give approximately in
one word the character of te Sign, how it expresses itself in its most
perfect and in its most imperfect way. Between these extremes of very
high and very low expression numerous gradations occur.

The following esoteric treatise on the signs of the Zodiac in relation
to each other, is taken from "The Prophecy of the Zodiac" *).

"How far into times immemorial the zodiacal signs and their names
go back, who shall say? Certain it is that they, as idea, were born
together with and out of the human mind. It is not by accident that
man, struggling in this life, inwardly and outwardly anxious, lifts his
heart up to the stars which seem unmoved, inexorably fixed, untouched
by all that stirs down here. Indeed, rest and calm come back to him,
their quiet and their fixedness make him quiet and fixed. How is that?
Does not man know that just as his wheel of life revolves from cradle
to grave, the planets do from coming into being till setting? Does not
he know that their light is fire, their warmth glow, their movement a
speed that contains destruction? How can such an unrest give him
rest? Yea, all this man knows well enough, but above all, he,
looking at the stars from below, is conscious of the fixedness in their revo-
lution, certainty in their whizzing, law in their fieriness. The law which
bears all these things bears him also

; the law in movement and change,
in rising and setting, is his law of life and death as well.

This great thought that nothing proves to be chance, is the thought
which makes man quiet when regarding the starry-sky above him. And
that which he by day in the heat of the fight, in the cloudless blue of
the midday-sun cannot discover, only rises for his dark heart with
every light that stands out against the black shadow of the night, with
every star that rises.

Is it wonderful that at the birth of man under the nightly sky of

history (Gen. 1 : 31 "for it had been evening and.morning, the sixth day")
the thinker in him stood up from the dark chaos to seek the light? Is
it wonderful that this man, approaching the stars in his spirit, stood still,

waking? Is it wonderful that he built houses with roofs for the night,
walls with towers for the night? Is it wonderful that he made his

!) By L. de Hartog-Meyjes from "Nieuwe Banen" (New Paths) Sept. 1911.



31

dwellingplace in the midst of the stars and his chair between sun
and moon?

Somewhere the great heart must throb, which keeps all these

things moving!
And, like the man of exact science, discovering law in all outward

happenings, as broad as daylight, knows himself to be a knower of
these laws, so do the wise ones of olden times fix their hearts on the
fixed signs of the nightly mystery, trying to find there and to
understand the inner ground and cause of all world-change.

The Great Heart they did not find it in nature! Who could find
the cause of movement in movement? But His throbbing they heard.
And what they learned from the great order of life was wisdom which
demonstrates itself in the kingdom of the spirit.

The wise ones saw the fixed signs and divided them and gave them
names and numbered them by dozens. The pious ones understood with
their hearts and ornamented their temples with the signs of the zodiac,
representing the ascent of the spirit from the pression of nature.

Three were called divine: Aries, the Thinker; Taurus, the Word;
Gemini, the Spirit.

Through these three was put Cancer, space, in order that there would
be room for the birth of Leo, the burning heart of the world.

While thus Aries, Thought, has become Word in Taurus, and Action
in Gemini, "spin like a cloth" space in Cancer, Leo, the Lion, the fiery
spirit, elevates itself over the passive Virgo, Matter, Mater, Mary the

Virgin. What is born out of her is spirit and matter in one, of two
kinds of births, of two kinds of sex. Libra, the Balance of spirit and
matter is in equilibrium.

But innocence cannot be virtue, nor simplicity merit, man is only
that which he has conquered. Near the innocence of Libra, man under
the green trees of his childish play, shuffles the serpent, the sign Scorpio,
the Tempter. Libra, the ideal-man, born of the overshadowing of the
Spirit over the Virginal Matter is nothing but a beautiful possibility, as
long as he is not tested. The Spirit, therefore, leads man in the wilderness
to be tried. Scorpio, the tempter, is thus called the sign of death as
well as of life. For he who falls for temptation goes down in the law
of "dust unto dust." But he who stands, comes in the sign of the new
life. For, like the serpent, stripping its skin, appears as newly-born, so
does this sign picture the dying of life after nature in order to beget
the other, the higher life after the spirit. He, who is tempted in Scorpio
must begin the fight with his own nature and desire.

For the next sign is that of Sagittarius, the Archer, often pictured as
a centaur. The upper-body that is thought, human; the lower-
body, that is desire, animal. With the arrow of thought he aims
at the highest good, but his desire prevents him from virtually reaching
it. That is why he has to climb the mountain of hardships further. What
he saw in Sagittarius with the eye of spirit, he must now try to reach



32

with the foot of action. That means: not from afar he may shoot only
arrows of thought, thought which is not of space, boundless and eternal

;

nay, with his will, with his whole energy he must follow that thought.
And so it is that we find the next sign grasped in Capricorn, the

Goat, which solitary and still climbs the mountains, higher and higher,
more and more difficult, ever lonelier. It is the man that must go and
realise what he saw.

But even that is not sufficient. He who mounts the mountain top of
the spirit, estranges from humanity, from the world, and on the heights,
which are deserted, he remains to himself alone. He who keeps the
treasures of the Spirit to himself, knowing that there are only few
who expect salvation and peace of the mountains of solitude, misses
his calling.

Therefore the sign that follows must be Aquarius, the Waterbearer,
the man who falls on his knees to pour out the pitcher full of living
water, into the valley at his feet down there.

And this water is the life-element for the fish, pictured in the next

Sign Pisces; at the same time the sign, that as two arches, connects
heaven and earth. But also the sign of the cross, the sign of dying off.

Thus the sign Pisces turns and we get Aries, the sign of the Divine
(see above), also the sign of offering.

Everything animal, that remained in man, must be offered as lamb
in the Temple of God. He, Whose Thought (which, as we saw, pre-
cedes as His Advice every Word and Action of creation) is higher than
our thoughts, He requires the offering of an unsullied body . . .

Which way soever we turn and re-turn the Zodiac, every time the

light of the eternal Truth revealed in Christ, shines on us.

Therefore, different from the above:
Leo is the burning Heart of the Father; Virgo is the Virgin, Matter,

the Mother who receives the Son; Libra is this Son himself in His
divine equanimity, weighed after the balance of the two natures

; Scorpio
is His temptation in the wilderness of birth-in-time; Sagittarius is His

glory which aims high at the seat on the right-hand of the Father;
Capricorn is His steady course along the road of suffering to glory on
the mountain of the cross

; Aquarius is the sign of the streams of living
water, flowing from His most inward part

All happenings in the dominion of the spirit, find themselves reflected
in the lower kingdoms, included the material plane, they are taken
part in as well by nature round us, as in our own innermost being.
The work of the Logos in his Cosmos through the "Seven planetary
Logoi" and through the twelve zodiacal signs, or as they are called in

the Bible, "the Hierarchies" (see esoteric part) did not take place only
at the beginning of the Universe, but takes place daily in us and round
us in nature, in our thinking and acting, in the blossoming and
decaying of nature.



33

We can regard the Zodiacal signs from different points of view and
so draw our consequences in many different ways. l

)
We divide the signs into 4 cardinal (V, =a=, 25, ^), 4 fixed (V, Kl,

1, s:) and 4 mutable (or common) signs (n, ^, tip, 3C) and further, into
four triplicities, named after the element which they represent. Viz. fiery-,
earthy, airy and watery triplicity (Compare the following pages).

So we have a triplicity which joins a quadruple (A + n). The triplicity

represents in its three aspects respectively the qualities: will, love,

wisdom, while the quadruple symbolises the 4 elements of the ancients
or also the 4 form-aspects or aggregates of matter.

The astrological triplicity thus is : 1 cardinal, 2 fixed, 3 mutable.
1. Cardinal. Symbolises the outgoing, driving force in the Universe

(Rajas), in which the desire to create expresses itself; movement and
energy, the wish to manifest (V, =ct, 23, %).

2. Fixed. The driving, directing force has become a quiet, organising
force, power, (Tamas) which constructs, materialises, shapes and is

persevering and constant in its expression. It is fixation-solidification

(V, m, Q., ).

3. Mutable. The keystone here is adaptation, harmonising ; wisdom
and love are crystalised from the two preceding forces. It is polarisation
(Sattva) (n, ,?, ?, X).

When we make this theoretical division, we must always bear in

mind that in reality the three are always one and go together, though
the manifestation differs. The key-note of 1, 2 and 3 respectively is

Will, Love, Wisdom. It is evident that without the guiding wisdom, the

driving force of the will would work destruction instead of construction,
and that harmonising striving without perseverance and unmovable power
could never be eternal, but would be only temporary.

This triplicity of manifesting power finds its expression in a fourfold

way by fire-, air-, water- and ear#z-elements, as the Ancients called
them. We have to regard them as the different conditions of form
or aggregates in which the manifestation expresses itself.

So we get in every manifestation a combination of the 3 and the 4
or of the triangle A with the +, i.e. of Spirit and Matter.

The signs of each triplicity we may regard as follows. Let us take
for example the fiery triplicity V, Q., ,?.

In the first sign V we may compare the driving force of the Uni-
verse to the beginning of a rectilinear or parabolic movement towards

!) We have in our treatise this principle underlying, that thought precedes any
manifestation, and thought, looked upon in that way, is therefore the driving force
which makes everything shoot forth to being. That is why Aries (the head) is

our startingpoint, the spiritual centre from which manifestation begins.
Only after this has begun, there can be question of love for that manifestation,

^ (the heart) the second sign of the fiery triplicity (also prana, life). The Ancients
therefore took the sign Aries for the beginning of the Zodiac.

Both revelations did of course not take place separately, but simultaneously in
a sense.



34

a goal, e.g. an arrow that is shot. It is the actual realising of the fiery
triplicity (Mental expression).

(Aries = the planner, the pioneer).
The 2nd sign Q. always expresses an organising, directing, nutritive

quality out of which the driving force is, as it were, condensed, as in
an accumulator (Astral expression).

(Leo = powerful commander).
The 3rd sign ^ expresses a releasing, a coming free of the accu-

mulated strain of power and may therefore be compared to the hitting
of the arrow in the bull's eye. (Physical expression).

(Sagittarius = expressive, daring).
We can summarise all in the image of an avalanche plunging down

in a valley; the beginning is here the first impulse which is the
cause of the mass of snow on the mountain-slope coming into movement
(V) the snow comes off, begins to move and rolls down increasing
to enormous masses (Q,) and a moment after, it plunges down in the

valley with roaring noise (,?).

The signs, divided into 4 cardinal signs (T, 25, ==, ^), 4 fixed signs
(V. &, "I, ~), 4 mutable signs (n, tip, ,?, 3C), form angles of 90 and
180 with each other.

A ni
Cardinal Cross. Fixed Cross. Mutable Cross.

Two succeeding cardinal, fixed or mutable signs are always 90 from
each other (forming a square aspect, D). A further division is in 3 fiery
signs (V, ft, ,?), 3 earthy signs fa, tip, ^), 3 airy signs (n, A, :=), 3
watery signs (ss, n\, 3C)-

The three fiery signs form always an angle of 120 (trine aspect, A)
and this is also the case with the airy, earthy and watery signs.

-* 25

ftA, A.
fiery triplicity earthy triplicity airy triplicity watery triplicity

Fiery signs form always an angle of 60, * (sextile aspect) with the
next following airy sign, and so do the earthy with the watery signs.
They both make respectively an angle of 180, 8 (opposition) with the
second airy or watery sign.

The 4 elements, fire, air, water, earth represent the 4 planes on



35

which Man the Ego is manifested, viz. respectively: the higher
mental, the lower mental, the astral and the physical plane. Or, when
we compare them with man himself, resp. spirit, intellect, the astral

body (desire body), the material body.
The 3 crosses we may compare to the 3 Guna's of the Hindu's, viz.

the cardinal cross to Rajas (activity), the fixed cross to Tamas (con-
stancy) and the mutable cross to Sattua (rhythm).

The cardinal signs govern the head and the intellect.

The fixed signs govern the soul and the will.

The mutable signs govern the body and the senses.
The greater part of the planets in fiery signs (V, & >?) makes the

native positive, energetic, acting, progressive-minded, impulsive.
The greater part of the planets in airy signs (n, =o=, 2s) makes the

native talented, refined, pensive, courteous, idealistic, often inconstant.
The greater part of the planets in watery signs (25, ni, DC) makes

the native negative, sensitive, dreamy, psychic, shy, timid, romantic,
often lacking in energy.

The greater part of the planets in earthy signs (V, W, *T) makes the
native steady, practical, plodding, economical, cautious, patient, reserved.

The four castes of the Hindus are under the four Elements. The
Priests under the element of Air, the Warriors under the element of

Fire, the Merchants under the element of Water, and the Artisans under
the element of Earth.

In a judgment of a horoscope first of all the ascendant, the sun, the
moon and the ruler of the rising sign (the ruler of the horoscope) must
be considered.

Every sign is ruled by a planet *), as is indicated in the following
table, and every sign rules a certain part of the human body.

L r r
Sign Part of the Body e

1 Aries fiery sign governs head and 1

face d
2 Taurus earthy throat and neck $
3 Gemini airy lungs and arms $
4 Cancer watery stomach, breasts D
5 Leo fiery heart and back O
6 Virgo earthy bowels, abdomen $
7 Libra airy reins $
8 Scorpio watery secrets, generative organs,

bladder cf

9 Sagittarius fiery thighs, hips Q|.

10 Capricorn earthy knees and bones I?

1 1 Aquarius airy lower legs and ankles ft #
12 Pisces watery feet and tissues 2|.

*) To be ruler of a sign means that the influence of a certain planet in a certain

sign (see next table) is shown more strongly and more harmoniously than in other
signs. This is in connection with the beginning of the material manifestation of the



36

Masculine l
signs are V, n, Q., =o=, J, s:.

(positive^ )

Feminine x
tf, 25. tip, n\. jfr. DC. (negative) )

Northern V, tf, n, 25, Q,, np.

Southern A, n\, ,?, ^, s, 3C-

The Tropic 25 and %.
Signs rising short 25, Q,, "P, ==, HI, ,?. For the Northern

^ Hemisphere ; the
1

long %, zz, X, "Y , X H. reverse for the Southern
) Hemisphere.

Every sign of 30 is divided into three equal parts of 10, the decanates.
The 1st, 2nd and 3rd decanates of each sign have the same principal
ruler as the whole sign, but as sub-ruler the 2nd and 3rd decanate
have resp. the rulers of the two signs of the same group, e.g. the sub-
ruler of the 2nd decanate of V is the ruler of Q. (the 2nd fiery sign)
and that of the 3rd decanate the ruler of J (the 3rd fiery sign) etc.

Seeing that these sub-rulers have, in the judgment of the ascendant, an
influence secondary to that the principal ruler, it is necessary that we
indicate the decanates and their sub-rulers further.

"^When we have e.g. as ascendant >? 15, it is not sufficient to study
the ruler of the horoscope, 2|., but also the position and the aspects of

1

the subruler d (of the 2nd decanate).

V 1

Ruler d Ruler n Ruler 25 Ruler

V Dec. d V Dec. $ n Dec. 25 Dec. J>

10-20 10-20 10-20 10-20
Q. Dec. O tip Dec. g ^= 1

Dec. $ m, Dec. d
20-30 20-30 20-30 20-30

j? Dec. 2|. * Dec. r? s: Dec. ft DC Dec. 2|.

Q 1

Ruler Q ny Ruler =0= Ruler $ ni Ruler d

Q. Dec. O Dec. dQ= Dec. $ ni Dec. 1

d
10-20 10=20 10-20 10-20

^ Dec. 2|. Dec. ft zz Dec. ft 3C Dec. 2|. ^
20-30 20-30 20-30 20-30

V Dec. ^ Dec. ? n Dec. 25 Dec. 3)

J Ruler 2J. Ruler ft :s Ruler DC Ruler ^ 2|.

? Dec. 2|. Dec. ft ^ Dec. ^ OC Dec. W
10-20 10-20 10-20 10-20

V Dec. cf Dec. $ n Dec. 25 Dec. ])
20-30 20-30 20-30 20-30

SI Dec. Dec. =0= Dec. 1

n\ Dec. d

planet in a certain part of the heavens. The treatment of this subject belongs to esoteric

astrology. At the end, in the esoteric part, something more about this will be said.

!) See Chap. Polarity, p. 85.



37

The Ascendant or Rising Sign.

Appearance, Temperament, General Character.

That part of the sign *) which at birth was rising on the eastern
horizon, gives the form of the body, the temperament and the character
in general, modified, however, by the signs in which Q and D are

placed and by the influence of those planets which occupy a prominent
place in the horoscope e.g. in the ascendant or in M. C.

The ascendant expresses in general the characteristics and tendencies
which the native has made his own in preceding lives in opposition
to its antipode the descendant which expresses qualities not sufficiently
developed, and which would be desirable in spouse, co-operator or

partner in order to form together a harmonic whole. Also the sign
occupied by the M. C. has often a very strong influence on appearance
and character.
We must not take the expression, that the ascendant gives the form

of the body and the general nature of the character, too literally, but
rather imagine that above mentioned qualities of body and soul represent
the reflexion of the whole heavens with all their constellations at
the moment when a certain degree of a sign is rising.

Conceived in that way, it will necessarily lead to the conclusion
that at different latitudes the reflexion of the heavens or i. o. w. the
effect of the ascendant on body and soul must be somewhat different,
because the heavens are different at different latitudes with the same
degree rising.

In how far this influence can differ, closer scrutiny will show; for

the time being only little is known of it. What is known is, that the
difference cannot be very large.

The M. C. is the only point of which we may be completely sure,
but this is not the case with the other cusps, included the ascendant.
This is observed now and again when the character and the build of

the body as they ought to be according to the subdivision of the sign
are compared to the image as reality gives it. This gives viz. in such
cases sometimes the image of the preceding or of the following sign.
We cannot always explain this by an incorrectly given time of birth.

Hiram E. Butler says in his work "Solar Biology" something regar-
ding the transition of one sign in another and states that this does not
take place with all signs in the same way. This may be of importance
when the first or the last degrees of the signs are rising or when a
planet is placed in them at birth.

!) The ruler of the sign that is rising ought first of all to be considered, next the
sign itself, the house and the aspects, and then the sub-ruler of the decanate. Both
require profound study when a horoscope is being judged. Also the houses with
which the ruler and the sub-ruler run parallel; e.g. if the first decanate of Q^
is rising, study carefully also the 5th house (house of Qj. If the 2nd decanate of

^ is rising, the 9th house (house of ,?) as well etc. About the houses see p. 90.



38

At the transition of sz in DC a strong deviation of the ordinary rule

occurs, viz. the influence of DC is already felt in the last 5 of :s. These
last 5 therefore show the blended qualities of two signs. We see the
same at the transition of DC in V, viz. the last 4 1

/2 ~~5 of DC show the
blended qualities of these two signs. Between V and V this blending
of qualities totals only 1 and further no imperceptible change of the

signs takes place till np A, where it is 2. The transition between =0=

and ni is uncertain, that between >? and *T sharp, but that between
~Z and s: goes imperceptibly over the last 4 of % so that there already
the qualities of s: begin to show. With the other signs the transi-
tion is fairly sudden, here no "chemic polarisation", as he calls it,

takes place.
In many cases the M. C. will often give us the solution. Isabella

Pagan, too, says in her astrological work entitled: "From Pioneer to
Poet" that too little notice is given to the influence of the M. C. The
last section, at the end of each sign in M. C. desc. and I. C. (nadir) I

have taken and abbreviated from above-mentioned work.

1

(V) Aries (ruler d ) Fiery Sign.

Type: the Englishman.
Aries as ascendant: King George V, Carmen Sylva,

Annie Besant, Oliver Cromwell.

The pure Aries-type has a wiry, slender, muscular body. The neck
is thin and long, so is the head, and broadened at the skull especially
over the temples. It is a so-called wedge-shaped head. Hair and beard
are usually black whereas the moustache is often of a lighter colour.

Flaxen and red hair occurs very often under influence of Aries

especially if its ruler, Mars, is rising in the ascendant. Then there is

often also a scar in the face. Complexion tawny. Sharp glance.
The character is violent, hasty, impulsive, choleric, courageous. The

Aries-type shrinks from nothing, dares to undertake anything, goes
through thick and thin, and his robust health enables him to do so. He
cannot very well be in an inferior position but wishes to be at the
head, whether he has the ability for it or no. Under this sign therefore
are found the pioneers, the leaders, but also many muddle-headed
people. He acts quickly, and performs his task with great enthusiasm,
but with the lower type this often degenerates into fanaticism.

In judging, one must carefully seek out the aspects of other planets
this sign and its ruler (cf) receives, because the aspects may modify
the character strongly.

This is of course, also the case with the other signs !

The afore-said facts are especially applicable to the first 10 of T,
the first decanate, of which Mars is the sole ruler. The second decanate
has for sub-ruler the Sun, the third Jupiter, so that the qualities of these



39

last decanates are mingled with those of the signs of which respectively
the Sun and Jupiter are ruler.

The Aries-type is fond of argument and likes to devote his time to study
and research. The Sun is exalted l in

) this sign. (The Egyptian name for Aries
is Raman i.e. a heightened region in Egypt). The skin of a ram covered the
holiest in the Egyptian temples.

The danger for the V type lies in overstrain, the exacting of too much
from body and spirit ; want of rest. He must learn to conquer his rudeness,
impatience, irritability, and cultivate kindness and patience. By doing so he
will also gain bodily health. Much movement in free nature is a necessity
with him. This sign governs head and face.

V in M. C. 2
) gives a strong desire after perfect expression. He wishes to

be in the van, to be a pioneer, a leader. The standpoint is hopeful and pro-
gressive, but sometimes very changeable.
V in descendant 2

) gives a tendency to progressive thinking and ever
being inclined to other points of view, so lack of perseverance.
V in I. C. 2

). The foundation of the character is courage, born from hope,
sometimes, however, only expressing itself in foolhardiness and impatience.

(V) Taurus (ruler $) Earthy Sign.

Type: the Irishman.
V as ascendant, George Washington, General Ulyssus

S. Grant.

Gives a short, well-set body, thick nek, short straight nose, at the
base usually deep-planted. The limbs are short and firm, the hands broad
and heavy, with short fingers. The shoulders are broad, the hair abun-
dant and often curling. The forehead is broad and usually low, the lips
thick, the eyes kind, dark and overshadowed by heavy eyebrows.

The character is practical and diplomatic, phlegmatic, dogmatic, little

temper but when his passion is once roused, he becomes dangerous
(the raging bull). Taurus often gives musical talent and a fine voice.

Taurus governs the neck, throat and larynx.
Further characteristics are: self-assertion, constancy, which qualities

change into conceit, and obstinacy if we find the sign or its ruler $ also,
afflicted. (See $ aspects p. 125132). In Taurus the moon is exalted. (See
p. 52). Especially the Taurus-type of the first decanate evinces strong likes
and dislikes, is very reserved and lazy. The ruler of the 1st decanate is

Venus, the 2nd decanate of X has for sub-ruler Mercury -
($ up). This deca-

1) See p. 52.
2
) Asc. = General character and build of the body, the outward man.

Characteristics that are already developed.
M. C. = Emotions and aspirations, his view on things, the point of view.

(Karma).
Desc. = Way of thinking, it denotes the qualities he has still to develop and

which are present to an insufficient degree so far.

I.C. = Hereditary tendency, the foundation of the character. (Dharma).



40

nate is more critical and egoistical but at the same time more intellec-
tual. The 3rd decanate has for sub-ruler Saturn (ft *T) through which the
laziness to which Taurus is inclined makes room for greater activity.
The last decanate is distinguished by less trustworthiness and more
egoism than the first.

This type must strive to conquer the inclinations which show too much
attachment to earthy things and must cultivate his sense of religion. Furthermore
the lazy tendency has to be overcome.

V in M. C. gives a strong longing for peace, and great enjoyment in the
pleasure of a well-earned rest, reaping the fruit of work done which often
becomes too material. He often takes a fixed standpoint and does not easily
change.

V in desc. The spirit is constant, firm, probably even obstinate and stubborn.
^ in I.C. The foundation of the character is persevering and constant,

stubborn.

(n) Gemini (ruler ) Airy Sign.

Type: the Belgian (Walloon)
n as ascendant, Richard Wagner, Lord Tennyson, Dante,

Bernard Shaw.

Gives a tall, straight, thin stature, narrow face, bent, (often an aquiline)
nose, a sharp and penetrating glance, strong intellect, brown eyes and
dark hair. The gait is quick and when walking the Gemini-type oft-

en moves his arms violently. The lower Gemini is very restless,
talkative, cunning, mendacious and diffusive, is silent only when you
stick him fast. Arms long, the hands often short and ever moving, even
when he sits quietly on his chair. Indeed they are as restless men-
tally as physically.

This sign produces professional men, and excellent orators. Gemini
gives a healthy body usually.

The sign governs the lungs, arms and shoulders. In order to rise

higher the Gemini-type must silence his cold positivism and by being
passive allow his intuition to work. His restlessness will then disappear.

The 1st decanate is purely intellectual and is ruled by Mercury;
the 2nd decanate has for sub-ruler Venus (=0=) and joins feeling to cold
intellect ; the 3rd decanate has for sub-ruler Saturn and Uranus (s:). The
higher idealism and love of mankind makes this decanate the best of
the three. With all judgments much of course depends on the nature
of the aspects which the ascendant and the ruler receive.

The Twins have sprouted according to mythology from one of the
eggs which were the fruit of the union of Jupiter changed into a swan, and
Leda, wife to the King of Sparta. They took part in the voyage of the Argo-
nauts and freed the sea of pirates. That is why they are honoured as sea-gods.

The Gemini-type must overcome his egoism and superficiality and cultivate



41

his sence of duty and self-control. In this way he will become the master of
his nervous disorders, neurasthenia and hysteria.
n in M.C. gives a strong longing for a completer expression and inclines

to original, or healthy artistic or intellectual work. The point of view is free
and unlimited and highly intellectual.

n in desc. Fruitfulness in thoughts, but often lack of responsibility to put
them to practice, fugitiveness.

n in I.C. indicates a certain joyful impulsiveness which can make the
native attain much in many directions.

(25) Cancer (ruler Q)) Watery Sign.

Type: the native of Holland (not the Dutchman).
25 as ascendant, Leo Tolstoy, Tschaikowsky, H. P. Bla-

vatsky, Kaiser Wilhelm II, Emile Zola. The last two exam-
ples show how many planets in one sign (and in M.C. as
well) can influence the appearance and the character.

Kaiser Wilhelm has c? and t in M.C. (in JC) and Zola has Q> 3)> & c? m
M.C. all of them in V- Both are Mars-types ; show, however also the Cancer-
qualities.

Gives often an over-sensitive and therefore not strong body, of
which the upper half is stronger developed than the lower. The head
is round, the features and the eyes usually small, the chin little developed
and often receding, the nose flat and usually turned-up. The face is

round and pale, the mouth large and full of expression. Upon the
whole the body gives a somewhat effeminate impression. Cancer governs
the breasts and the gastric region. The character is shy, timid, want
of courage and also oversensitive to impressions from outside, and
the environment in which it is placed. The Cancer-type needs domes-
ticity and sympathy, but it is difficult for him to be in sympathy with
the same people for a long time; he is changeable in this line as
well as in many others and this makes life particularly hard to him at
times. In one point, however, the Crab is extremely retentive and that
is where his ideals are concerned. If he once has chosen an ideal,
in which direction soever, he will follow it with great perseverance ;

the Crab holds fast to what he has. He is very subject to changing
moods. He is to develop further through continual change of conditions
of life; perhaps because in former incarnations he gained too little

experience. This sign enables to experience any degree of emotion, the

highest as well as the lowest.
In many works on astrology one finds mentioned that Cancer gives

a strong memory. This may be true for the Sun placed in Cancer, but
Cancer as ascendant, on the contrary, often gives a weak memory.

25 is the sign of sensitive people and mediums. The higher vibrations
of 25 give the endowment of clairvoyance and a keen feeling for art.

Cancer typifies that which is motherly, cherishing, sympathetic, which
always, in all its changeability, forms the keynote of the Cancer-character.



42

Many lead a wandering, restless life, thrown this way and that way
by their emotions and imaginations by which they are completely ruled.
Their temper is usually subject to many fluctuations. They like to follow
others, imitate others through want of firmness, and this is why
they have so little power to resist influences of illness; evil does not
miss making its impression as well as good.

The 1st dec. is ruled by the changeable Moon only; the 2nd dec.
has for sub-ruler d (ni) which gives more constancy to this decanate;
the 3rd dec. has for sub-ruler Q|. (DC) so that love of mankind and a
liking to serve others becomes the keynote. By the side of 9\., also W
as sub-ruler comes to the fore.

Hope and faith should be cultivated and the inclination towards hypochondria
overcome. Regular bodily exercises are of much use.

25 in M. C. Gives a longing to completely understand things and a proneness
to affect the feeling and the imagination of his fellow men, usually from the

standpoint of prepossession.
25 in desc. The spirit is full of fantasy, retentive, and at times musing

and fantastic.

25 in I.C. The foundation of the character is patience, which in its highest
expression brings with it an admirable power of adaptation to the environment
and a persevering aspiration.

(Q.) Leo (ruler Q)- Fiery Sign.

Type: the Frenchman.
Q_ as ascendant, Von Bismarck, King George of Greece,

Pierpont Morgan, Adeline Patti, Alan Leo.

Body usually big and broad-shouldered, well-built, but the upper
body is stronger developed. Hair usually fair, sometimes ruddy, eyes
large, the face oval, a pink complexion and often a strong chin that
is knobbed.

The voice is strong and somewhat authoritative which quality is to
be observed in the glance as well. If one anticipates the wishes of the

Leo-type and shows him that one appreciates him, he is a good, gene-
rous and courteous friend, but the afflicted Leo suffers from conceit and
inaccessibility. Courage is one of Leo's good qualities.

This sign governs the heart and the back, it gives as a rule a strong
body like the Ram does, but more corpulent.

His love of ruling and his impulsiveness cause his life to be rather

subjected to changes, to ups and downs. Much depends on a good
position of the Sun, Leo's ruler.

Some modern astrologers who have the sign Q, strongly in their horos-

cope, call it "the kingly or lordly sign" and really, the Leo people like

to adopt a majestic manner. We can even observe this in the majestic
gesture with which a beggar that comes under this sign, takes our alms.



43

The 1st decanate gives the purest Leo-type; the Sun is sole ruler

here; the 2nd dec. adds the Jupiter influence (>?) having an expansive
effect on the body and at the same time rousing the inclination for

religion and philosophy. The 3rd dec. has for sub-ruler Mars (V)
by which the intellectual side of the character is favourably influenced,
together with much vitality.

The ancients kept during the month when the Sun went through ^, great
worships and festivals, the so-called Leonitic feasts, which were conducted by
the priests, the Leones. After the Sun-god of the Persians, Mithras, these feasts
are also called Mithriaca. The symbolic stories of Samson and Hercules have as
foundation the passing of the sun through this sign, they are the symbolic
representation of it.

The Leo-type must try and learn to conquer his vanity and endeavour to
live in harmony with his environment.

Q^ in M.C. inclines the native to let his light shine for others, and so
lighten the life of others, thus serving God. It gives moreover a desire after

glory and honour, sometimes the antipode of it viz. a longing to be flattered
and praised. The point of view goes from the inner side of the things to all

directions.

Q^ in desc. gives breadth and intelligence to the spirit, but little clearness
and detailed-ness.

Q^ in I. C. The character is loving and faithful, sometimes expressing
itself as a kind of easy and weak tolerance.

Virgo (ruler ?) Earthy Sign.

Type: the Swiss.
tip as ascendant, Czar Nicholas II, Melanchton, Guy de

Maupassant.

Perception and chastity are the characteristics of this sign. The Virgo-
type is usually of medium height, rather stout, the forehead well
developed with a beautiful rounding and full in the middle above the nose.

Eyes and hair dark.
it? governs the intestinal canal and the digestion in general

absorption and assimilation, also the peritoneum, the sympathetic system
and the solar-plexus. The intellect is not second to that of Gemini, but
it is without the restlessness of Gemini. The Virgo-type is quiet, reserved,
intelligent, inventive, persevering, often self-contained and systematic.
This sign produces good business people who both through their working
faculty and their intellectual powers get on in the world. The weak
side of Virgo is its strongly pronounced inclination to criticism and in

the lower Virgo-type a high degree of egoism and coldness, which
conies so much to the fore in no other sign.

He is hopeful under all circumstances, which is also a quality of
the other earthy sign tf.

The 1st dec. comes wholly under Mercury; the 2nd dec. has for



44

sub-ruler Saturn (Z) through which the practical, hardworking side of
the character comes to the fore. The 3rd dec. has for subruler Venus
ftf) which add to the other qualities of Virgo a.o. amiability and love
for art.

Virgo, Ceres (Demeter) is the goddess of agriculture and of legislation and
social order. She roves about the earth in search of her daughter Persephone,
who has been carried away by Pluto and brought to the nether world.

This sign is represented by a Virgin, holding some ears of corn in her
right hand. It is the symbol of the unsullied soul.

It is called in Arabic: Sun-bula, i.e. she who bears. In eastern Palestine
and adjoining countries the constellation the Virgin is just above the horizon
on Dec. 25th at midnight and out of her according to the doctrine of the
ancient Persians the sun-god Mithras is born. We find the same legend
in most religions, only under other names.

The Virgo-type must strive after a broader conception and must try and
conquer his egoism. He must see to a good digestion and refrain from spice.

ftp in M.C. striving after purity and attempts to raise the public morality
and health by teaching obedience to the universal laws which govern both.
His point of view is that of the critic distinguishing good from bad, pure
from impure.

rrp in desc. denotes a clear and practical character with little fantasy and
therefore not in sympathy with the conceptions of others.

ftp in I. C. The foundation of the character is purity, which causes an
aversion to all that is sickly or impure.

(==) Libra (ruler $) Airy Sign.

Type: the Austrian.
=0= as ascendant, the Emperor Francis Joseph, Colonel

Olcott, Pasteur, Erasmus.
As type Pasteur comes under ^ (ft), through the many

planets he has in this sign, and Olcott under Q^. Ol-
cott has the Q in M-C. in Q.-

The body is tall, slim and shapely, the hair usually dark, eyes brown,
but also many people with fair hair and blue eyes are found under this

sign. Nose straight, forehead near the eyebrows more pronounced. The
expression of the eyes is honest, frank.

The character is courteous, kind, helpful; often somewhat indolent,
but usually sympathetic. The will is weak, so that the Libra-type is

strongly ruled by circumstances and outward influences.
He is often the slave of his feelings and impulses.
He tries to evade unpleasantnesses at any cost. His greatest virtues

are honesty and a strong feeling of justice.
=s= governs the loins, principally the kidneys, excepting the pelvis of

the kidney ("I). So here it is secretion, in opposition to the preceding
sign absorption.

The 1st dec. is ruled by Venus, the 2nd has for sub-rulers Uranus



45

and Saturn (s:) through which diplomacy is joined to the former qualities.
The 3rd dec. has for sub-ruler Mercury (n). This combination is very
good and gives a strong inclination to science. This dec. produces bodies
most beautifully proportioned.

The Libra-type has often a certain apathy to overcome which sometimes
degenerates into indolence. Rest and seclusion, and good music as well, are
the best remedies for him.

The symbol of the equinox. The Sun has its fall (see p. 52) here. The
mystic symbolism of this sign is that in Libra, the sign of the balance, the
soul is weighed. It descends and is subjected to the lower nature, until the
latter is overcome. Here does the soul find its equilibrium by subjecting the
lower nature ($ the ruler). Saturn is exalted in this sign, i.e. through the effect

and the influence of Saturn the lower Venus is brought under discipline. As
soon as this is achieved, enlightment follows, the intuition awakes i.e. the

knowledge gathered in former lives manifests.
= in M. C. gives a craving for beauty, for harmony in life, to be obtained

by natural, many-sided development. He seeks after popularity and public
recognition. His point of view is that of an arbiter though he is prone to waver.

=0= in desc. The spirit is broad and impartial, but sometimes vague and
undecisive.

=t in I. C. The foundation of the character is a nice feeling of honour and
love, of proportion and rhythm.

Scorpio (ruler cf). Watery Sign.

Type: the North-German.
tri as ascendant, Goethe, Dr. Rudolph Steiner, Edison,

Maurice Maeterlinck, Jeanne d'Arc.

Under this sign we clearly distinguish two types, the higher and the
lower Scorpion-type. Under the former come the high idealists, mystics
whose influence is often felt in large circles. They have overcome the
lower qualities which characterise the Scorpion-type so strongly and by
the victory gained on themselves, they have become in a sense masters
of the Universe. The lower Scorpion is combative though not irritable,

has a strong will, is jealous, unreconcilable and rude. Because they
soon feel insulted, they are difficult in intercourse, proud and often

indefatiguable seekers after sensuous pleasure. Scorpio exercises special
dominion over the generative organs, the bladder, ureters, the sinus or

pelvis, the urethra.
The body is often unproportioned, but firmly built and nervous. The

expression of the eyes (brown or black) is very peculair and fascinating.
If one has once observed this glance, it will be easy to recognise many
Scorpion-types by that only. I know somebody who, by having the j)

in Q, in M. C. in aspect with the ascendant, shows the Leo-type strongly,
only the fascinating glance of the eyes betrays his having n\ as ascendant.

Hair and beard are black or chestnut, often curled and dense. The



46

1

1st dec. is ruled by d, the 2nd by d and 2|. (DC), the 3rd dec. by d"

and D (25). The 2nd dec. gives a slimmer and better proportioned body
than the 1st and the 3rd.

Under this sign come many spiritualist mediums and sensitive people.

It is especially their task to purify their sexual inclinations and to control
them. This task is represented in the myth of Scorpio who slays Orion. Along
this way only can the lower Scorpio-type evolve to higher things. That is

why the earlier parts of his life are, as a rule, much more difficult by far than
the latter part.

The Scorpio-type must strive after purity and after more leniency for others.
rn, in M. C. gives a longing for power over the lives of others by exercising

his will. The point of view is that of a ruler, watchful and careful, possibly
inclined to pessimism.

n\ in desc. The spirit draws its conclusions in an evidently illogical way,
based on instinct or intuition; yet they are true, except when feeling plays
too great a part.

n\ in I. C. signifies that the foundation of the character is power, which
however, at times proves to be somewhat merciless in its expression.

(,?) Sagittarius (ruler 2J.) Fiery Sign.

Type: the Spaniard.
,? as ascendant, Pres. Roosevelt, King Edward VII, Sven

Hedin, Stanley.

Gives a well-proportioned, healthy body, high forehead, blue or

bluish-grey eyes and chestnut hair or fairer, usually with a golden sheen.
The glance is kind, full of expression and open. The nose is straight
or very little bent, the complexion is fresh and fair.

The character is independent, open and frank, sometimes irritable
and troublesome, very impulsive and combative (when afflicted); they
are usually fond of travelling. The higher type is philosophical, very
religious, peacable, good and merciful. Their originally good temper is

subject to many fluctuations and passes from gentleness to rudeness.

They love all branches of sport and are real lovers of animals (expe-
cially horses).

>? governs the hips and thighs, the locomotor muscles.

Mercury has its detriment (see p. 52) in this sign i.e. that the intellect
should be silent here so that the higher self may awake to rule the
lower self; viz. when the brain-thinking sleeps, intuition and inspiration
awaken.

The 1st dec. comes under Jupiter, the second has Mars (V) for sub-
ruler, through which the strong feeling of independence may rise to
excitement and stubbornness. The third dec. has for sub-ruler the
Sun ($,), a fairly favourable influence which weakens the impulsive-ness
a little and gives more devotion.



47

Sagittarius is represented as a centaur, shooting an arrow.
The Sagittarius-type is sometimes wrongly judged in his free, easy inter-

course with the opposite sex, on the whole, however, his character is

rather clear.

By their habit of expressing themselves impulsively and by their exagger-
ation with regard to bodily exercise and sport they often expose themselves
to disagreeable things and accidents; they should learn to force themselves
to calmness.

# in M. C. Desire for higher knowledge and for teaching it and applying
it practically in life. The point of view is that of the practical philosopher who
is always ready to learn.

,? in desc. The spirit is continually searching after science, is restless and
unsatisfied in this strife.

/ in I. C. The character shows a high degree of independence, related to

pride, sometimes even uncourtesy.

Capricorn (ruler b) Earthy Sign.

Type: the Bulgarian.
^ as ascendant: Robert Schumann, Bhagavan Das,

Gladstone, Michael Angelo.

Gives medium stature, and an intelligent, philosophical spirit. Nose
and chin long. Handsome features seldom occur under Capricorn. This

sign gives much power to persevere, so that he who comes strongly
under its influence, usually reaches the end he aims at, though he has
to fight all kinds of difficulties. The intellect is good, and although he
does not think quickly, he usually gathers a hoard of knowledge by
persevering. He is seldom superficial, usually earnest and cautious.

They are not quick in their likes and dislikes, but their friendship as
well as their hatred is of a lasting nature.

This sign produces many great men, especially in the political line.

Their inborn inclination makes them long for a high position and by
their perseverance, tact, and diplomatic talent they usually reach the

purpose of their wishes, though slowly, for they have to work
hard for it. They possess the power to fight effectually their inherent

melancholic, worrying nature.
Their glance is usually fixed to the ground, a Capricorn will seldom

look straight in the eyes of the person he is talking to; the glance is

sluggish, the eyebrows are planted low and sometimes grown together
on the bridge of the nose. Hair and eyes black, the beard thin. The fore-

head is broad. They like to speak in public, but seldom speak easily
and fluently. ^ governs the knees and bones.

The moon has its fall in !$ and c? is exalted in ^; the sun stands
lowest in ^ for the northern hemisphere, but begins to rise higher
from this sign. At Jesus' birth the Sun had just entered the sign *%,

it is the symbol of resurrection and in a deeper sense, of the beginning



48

again of the spiritualising of the earth and all it contains after it

had reached its lowest point in physical matter. Hence the fall of the
Moon in 1%. The reflected light of the Moon wanes, that the true

spiritual light of the Sun can shine again with more force. Together
with that, the old conception of matter is thrown off and the real sig-
nificance of matter in relation to spirit becomes clear.

The 1st dec. has for ruler Saturn, the 2nd has for sub-ruler Venus
(tt), the 3rd Mercury (n?).

The mythological significance of this constellation has not been quite
explained. Some are inclined to believe it to be the pastoral god Pan; others

suppose that it is the emblem of the goat Amalthea, which nursed Zeus (Jupiter)
on the island of Cyprus.

Rhea the mother of Jupiter, daughter of Uranus (Heaven) and Gaia (Earth)
had Zeus (Jupiter) nursed in a cave. Zeus when grown up, forced his Father
(Saturn) to vomit (A/a/warctara-exhalation) his swallowed children (Pralaya-
inhalation) after which Heaven and Earth (2J.) were separated, and also Water
(t) and Hades (rf).

Jupiter has his fall in Capricorn.
The causes of illness are often dejection and discontent, which can be

overcome by mixing with pleasant company and by cultivating hope. He must
evade solitude if he wishes to feel happier.

Jg' in M. C. gives a strong longing to rise above the conditions of his

environment, which sometimes degenerates into the "upstart". The point of
view is affable and approving towards superiors and often supercilious and
disdainful towards inferiors.

^ in desc. The spirit is profound and penetrating, possibly somewhat
hypocritical or narrow.

% in I. C. The foundation of the character is the passionate longing for

growth.

(s:) Aquarius (ruler #, f?) Airy Sign.

Type: the Swede.
2S as ascendant, Alfred de Musset, Jules Sandeau, Lord

Salisbury.

Aquarius gives like Capricorn, a calm, patient and honest nature and
a sharp, penetrating, philosophical spirit, which, however with :s, goes
in a more idealistic direction and is often accompanied by eloquence
and a nice feeling for plastic arts. This sign inclines to seclusion and
solitude and serious studies, especially in the occult line. The investi-

gation into all things that deviate from the every-day things, especially
the study of the human character and of the great questions of life are
their favourite theme. They usually are too strongly influenced by
others.

There are two different types under this sign a fair and a dark,
the face is lank-cheeked, the chin long, the eyes are handsome. As

.a rule the Aquarius type has many friends.



49

Under this sign are found many occultists, mystics, asceticts, assiduous
investigators and students of nature, in general, enlightened people.
The weak side of the undeveloped s: types is, that they indulge too
much in their strange fantasies and inclinations, which in that way
easily degenerate into something sickly and abnormal. With them intellect
must be joined to intuition and by patient and loving work they obtain
a wonderful understanding of the powers that work in nature. Along
this road they arrive at a rhythmic harmony with the Universe, xz has
influence over the bloodcirculation and governs the lower leg and ankles.

The first decanate has for ruler Uranus and Saturn, the 2nd dec. has
for sub-ruler Mercury (n) ; the 3rd dec. has for sub-ruler Venus (=o=), through
which more harmony and clearer vision is added to this part of xz.

The water-bearer who pours out the water of life on to the earth is the
symbol of the highly developed man who, as co-operator with the Logos, helps
the evolution of the Cosmos.

The weak point in this sign is the circulation, showing e.g. in cold hands
and feet. Much bodily exercise and fresh air is advisable.

sz in M. C. Longing to work for the evolution of humanity which their
breadth of vision enables them to do. The point of view is that of the seeker
after truth without prejudice and with an open eye.

zz in desc. The spirit is frank, unprejudiced, but sometimes uncertain in
its conclusions.

yz in I. C. The foundation of the character is a strong feeling of love of

mankind, arising from the knowledge that the source of all manifestation is

the same.

(3C) Pisces (Ruler and 2|.). Watery Sign.

Type : the Portuguese.
OC as ascendant, Queen Wilhelmina (2J. and ft in V, D

in 23), Queen Victoria of Spain, Cleo de Merode, Pius IX,
the Empress Friedrich.

Gives a fleshy body, a weak constitution, sensitive to influences.
Their inner nature is honest, good and gentle, they wish to serve and
to help, wherever they find an opportunity, but they are often the sport
of outward influences and of their emotions by being so extremely
susceptible.

The eyes are pale grey and watery, so-called fish-eyes, easy to

recognise. They usually get a double chin when they grow elderly.
Often a wan complexion, shoulders round, attitude often bent, arms and
legs short and shapeless, hair fine and silky.

The "Fishes" are not among the happy people; they live as it

were under a fatal anathema which compels them to remain in the

background in everything. They have continually to fight all kinds of
adversities and disappointments. It is as a road to crucifixion along
which the perfect man has to go, before he is nailed to the cross in



50

the sign of the Ram (V is the next sign). Neptune, the ruler, is the
uttermost, the highest three-dimensional planet of our solar-system;
a planet of which little is known as yet. Likewise a Fish-type is seldom
understood and appreciated. They are often mistrusted, though they
may be completely relied upon, they ask little for themselves, however.

The 1st dec. comes quite under *$ and 2|.> and gives a broad and
heavy-built body, the 2nd has for sub-ruler the Moon (25) *) and the

1

3rd d (ni). Hence the last decanate receives more power and constancy
and that which is too sensitive and feminine though gifted and
true of the 2nd dec. becomes much more positive.

The tender part of the body is the feet. It will be difficult, for a lady
that has this sign afflicted in her horoscope, to wear the heel of her
shoe under the middle of her foot, and so she will have to live "on a
large footing" if mother nature has not endowed her with graceful,
little feet.

Though the body of the Pisces-type is weak, the harmonious nature of the
individual is a help here and thus ascertains fairly good health.

With the old Syrians the fish enjoyed religious adoration.
DC in M. C. gives a clear view on things, not confused by illusion, a

striving to teach mankind and bring it closer to the innermost being of the
Universe. The point of view is that of a poet, a seer, a mystic.

DC in desc. makes the spirit very susceptible, for psychic influences as well,
i.e. mediumistic.

DC in I. C. The foundation of the character is sacrificing and devout, some-
times it expresses itself in complete want of initiative and action.

Influence of the Decanates on Body and Character.

According to Hindu-astrology the first half of each decanate is posi-
tive (+), the second half negative ( In the case of the

). sign Aries
therefore (see the table of the decanates p. 36) the first 5 have
for rulers cf, cf +, and the following 5 d, cf From 10 up to 15 we
have 1

, O + and 1

for rulers d from 15 up to 20 d rom 20
, O F up

to 25, d, 2|. -h and from 25 up to 30 d, 2|. and likewise for

each sign.
It must always be borne in mind that a planet in or near the ascen-

dant causes a change according to the nature of the planet and further
that a planet in M. C. has also a great influence on temperament and
appearance.

!) The 2nd (25) decanate has the strongest Neptune (^) influence, as a rule,

having less of Jupiter and more of the Moon.



51

The Planets.

After the nature of their influence the planets are distinguished into

good and bad, or if we use the universally accepted astrological terms,
in l

benefics and malefics. ) To the benefics belong : 2|., $, Q and some-
times t; to the malefics: r), rf, #, whereas and ]) may be called
neutral. The latter accept the qualities of the planets by which they are

aspected. All planets however are in their effect coloured by the sign
in which they are placed. Neptune has a harmonious influence only
when well aspected and even then, only when the consciousness of the
native is sufficiently developed to respond to the very high vibrations
of this planet. In all other cases t works as a malefic.

Just like the signs, we can classify the planets according to their
manner of action, into : fiery, airy, earthy and watery planets. The fiery
planets are Mars, the Sun and Jupiter; the airy planets Uranus and
Mercury; the earthy planets Saturn and Venus: the watery planets the
Moon and Neptune.

Usually a planet works strongest in a sign of the same nature, so

e.g. Mars in a fiery sign, Saturn in an earthy sign, but the table below
shows us, that there are exceptions; e.g. Mars is strong in the watery
sign rn,. Saturn is strong in Libra, an airy sign etc. I take "strong" in
the widest sense here; for in astrology is meant by strong or exalted
action, that in a certain sign the action of the planet in its highest and
purest meaning is expressed. In the sign of which it is the ruler, its

action is expressed to its full force. The cause of this is that the part
of the heavens of which this planet is the so-called ruler, has on man
an effect in agreement with that of the ruler.

Exaltation therefore really means, ennobled action e.g. the planet
Mars is exalted in Capricorn which means that the fiery, energetic
nature of Mars is here combined with the logical, tactful nature of

Capricorn. That which is too impulsive, produced e.g. by Mars in Sagit-
tarius has made room for a quiet, indefatiguable power of work, that over-
comes all obstacles.

Likewise, the Moon is exalted in Taurus and the sensitive, changeable,
little-constant character of the Moon becomes enriched by the self-

reliance, the constancy and the slowness of Taurus, which causes a
very good combination of qualities to be called into being.

The Sun is exalted in Aries, so that as it were a harmonious cooperation
of head and heart arises and in the same way we may regard the
exaltation of Saturn in Libra, of Jupiter in Cancer, of Venus in Pisces,
of Mercury in Virgo. The Sun and the Moon rule only one sign, so do

!) It has been observed before, that these terms are really wrong and that there
cannot be any question of good and bad, benefic and malefic ; but in order to evade
needless longwindedness we shall keep using these universal terms.

This also applies to the expressions affliction, afflicted, favourable and unfa-
vourable which are continually used.



52

the planets Uranus and Neptune, the remaining five planets Saturn,
Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury rule each of them two signs, as is

generally accepted, though in our opinion this division is incomplete
and was made in the time when Uranus and Neptune had not yet
been discovered and no other means was found to classify the planets.

For those who may be inclined to name this "classification" astro-

logical or occult fantasy, we must observe that their judgment is rash,

seeing that the planets i in ~ and tp in DC show a very exalted action.
So it would really be calling it another name.

Here follows the division of the planets as it is found in most
astrological works.

Sign



53

The slower the course, the weaker, the quicker the course the

stronger the action and the quicker do the events follow each other.
We shall try and give for every planet a striking type. It is not always

easy to find these types among personalities universally-known, because
we have often not seen them, but must rely on busts in museums,
portraits and descriptions of their person. Among our acquaintances,
however, we can point out the various "types" without difficulty.

The Sun (O).

Type: Colonel Olcott. She sign =0= was rising together with the Sun in Q inM.C.

The Sun was worshipped as the God of day, and its symbol, fire,

was during ages adored by fire-worshippers. In mythology the Sun is

represented by Phoebus, Apollo, Sol, Helios, etc.

In eastern literature it is called San or Sansi = Sun-god. The Sun
sends forth its vital power, Prdna, through the Universe and thus the Sun
is in the horoscope the symbol of vital power and the higher intellect.

It represents in the horoscope the spiritual principle, the real man, the

individuality.
Those who come strongly under the Sun-influence, seek after great-

ness, a high position and power.
The influence of the Sun, together with that of the Moon is by far

the principal in a horoscope, and in judging a nativity these two centres
must first be considered. If the Sun is strong and well placed in a
nativity this indicates a good moral basis of the character, whereas
with a bad position and bad aspects it usually points out immorality,
self-conceit, egoism and hardness towards inferiors.

The Sun gives life and germination by its fostering rays, it gives
warmth, but also all artificial heat with which we make our life

pleasanter in various manners, comes from the Sun; for the heat and
light that our combustibles provide us with, is in reality nothing but
stored up warmth of the Sun. And what else is 1

electricity but Sun-energy? )

If we compare the 7 planets of our Cosmos with the seven colours
of the spectrum and with the seven notes of the scale, we find that
the O corresponds to the colour orange and the note C. The O nas
no North- or South latitude, it follows the ecliptic in its seeming course.

When the Sun occupies a strong place in the horoscope, it makes
the body strong and robust with strong bones, a red face with a high
and broad forehead and fair curly hair. The bearing is self-conscious
and authoritative, the glance penetrating. The native is soon irritated

but merciful. When the Sun is afflicted and in a strong position, it

causes pride and arrogance, stubbornness and superficiality, restlessness
and sometimes cruelty if Mars or Saturn influence 2

it badly. )

See "Cosmos and Microcosmos"
! by C. Aq. Libra.
)
2
) See Chap. The Influence of the Aspects p. 125132.



54

The harmonious influence of the Sun makes one punctual and serious,
honest and noble. It governs the heart and its illnesses are complaints
of this organ. As the Sun is the life-giver of the Universe, so is the
heart the life-giver of the body. That is why its position and the aspects
it receives are of the greatest importance in the horoscope. The Sun is

ruler of all life, the Moon is the giver of form. All life is expressed in

form and therefore the relationship of the Sun and the Moon by aspect
must be studied first of all. When these are in good aspect life can
express harmoniously through form or in other words, the individual (Q)
and personal Q)) sides of our being cooperate harmoniously.

It is man's task to make the Moon- or form-side subjected to the

higher, Sun- or life-side of his existence, and to the degree in which
he succeeds, so much is he master of his fate, and will he "rule his stars".

The Sun has the greatest influence during the second half of our life.

During the first half, and especially in childhood, the form-or Moon-side
of our being takes the lead.

The nature of the Sun-influence is dry and hot, just like Mars', but
more temperate.

Apollo, the Sungod, is in the oldest legends, still represented as a kind
of demon who sends disasters and pestilence to the cattle, but also averts the
evil. The seventh day of the month was kept as Apollo's birthday and hence
celebrated.

He is also the God of truth, light and purity, but of war as well. (Sun-
influence corresponding to Mars-influence).

He is represented a.o. as a youth of majestic and serious bearing and
armed with arrow, bow, lute or trivet.

The Moon (])).

Type: H. P. Blavatsky. The sign 55 was rising, the well
"]) aspected and

strongly placed in the 4th house, the house of 25.

The Moon was worshipped under all kinds of names and symbols.
Some of these are: Cynthia, /sis, Lana, Selene, Artemis, Persephone or

Proserpine, Soma.
The Ancients knew that the Moon influences the moment of birth

considerably and so in mythology she is represented helping her mother
who is giving birth to Apollo.

She governs the fluids in th,e body, such as the saliva, lymph and
glands, breasts, the intestines (the entrails), bladder, and causes illnesses
of these parts, such as stomach-ache, colic; further, asthma, measles,
convulsions, etc. In man it represents the soul with its various emotions
and expressions, such as passions, desires, feelings. It represents the
lower man just as the sun represents the higher man. By its short
distance from the earth the Moon is the principal channel through which
the energy, the vital power of the sun expresses itself, influencing
the earth and all that is on it. The planets should be regarded as



55

suchlike channels. Their influence is energy of the Sun, modified by the
individual character of each planet.

The Moon does not follow, as the Sun does, the ecliptic, but deviates from
it northward and southward, and so has just like the planets, a latitude.

When the Moon occupies a very strong position in the horoscope,
it produces a stout body with short arms and legs and plump hands
and feet (small). The face is round and pale, the eyes grey. The cha-
racter is sympathetic but changeable and when the Moon is badly
aspected, it makes lazy, over-sensitive, cowardly, melancholic, mistrustful,

according to the planets that send the bad aspects. Those who come
strongly under the Moon's influence, often lead a complete gipsy's
life; they long for change, though deep in their hearts, they hanker
after a cosy, family-life. They are extremely sensitive to outward im-

pressions and as a rule have a hard life. They usually suffer from fits

of despondency. The nature of the Moon is phlegmatic, cold, humid,
and changeable.

The Ancients had a special division of the Zodiac after the 4 prin-
cipal phases of the Moon (each of about 7 days) in 28 mansions of the
moon, and they ascribed to each of these mansions a definite influence.

Nowadays this division has become obsolete and its significance is lost.

It will certainly be worth the trouble to investigate in this direction.

Sepharial gives a full account of this division of the Zodiac, which
starts with Aries, the first degree.

The 3) is the great collector of that which is harmonic and that which
is unharmonic which comes to it through the aspects of the other planets.

The Moon, well aspected and in an angular house is a warrant for
a successful life. Especially a good aspect of Jupiter and Venus is a
great help for obtaining and enjoying the good things in the material
world. One of the worst aspects in a horoscope (especially in a feminine

one) is a square or an opposition to Saturn.
Attention must be paid to the fact that the Moon accepts the cha-

racter of the sign in which it is placed, e.g. if it is in V, Mars will
assert its influence in impulsiveness etc., in a good or a bad sense

according to the aspects; if it is in the Saturnine sign JtT, then earnest-
ness and caution, but also the bad qualities of Saturn will communicate
themselves to the character.

A badly aspected Moon is one of the surest tokens of weak health,

especially in the first seven years of life. Other factors, however, should
also be considered in this case, which will be treated later on.

The Moon has a great influence on all that is connected with me-
diumship, spiritism, psychometry etc. If its position is in one of the
occult houses (4, 8, 9, 12) and if there are aspects of # or tp we may
conclude with certainty that these inclinations are present, unless
Mars plays a principal part in life by aspect and strong position. In this

case much that a horoscope indicates, will not come to expression,
because the senses and sensuousness play first fiddle



56

For intellectual thinking an 3)-aspect with is very favourable, seeing
that to the cold logical thinking of the imaginative-ness of the Moon
is added.

That the Moon has such an extremely great influence on the earth and all

that is on it, is easy to understand. The Moon represents the negative, feminine,
the mother-side of all existence, i.e. the material- or form-side of it, whereas
the Sun is the positive, masculine, the father-side, i.e. the spiritual side of
all being.

For this reason the Moon's influence is the strongest in youth, when that
form-side is being developed, and when the form-side, in the midst of all that
surrounds us, draws most of our attention. It becomes otherwise in the second
half of live, when one is no longer content with knowing the consequences
(the form side, the 3))> but begins to ask after the causes (the spiritual
side, the Q)- Then does the Sun assert its influence more and more and
in the same degree does the Moon-influence come to the rear.

So we have to regard the Moon as the principle of all that is material,
and the proof of it we may daily observe in nature. There we see her influence

everywhere, . both in a constructing and in a disintegrating sense, in the
four kingdoms of nature.

When the Sun and the Moon are in opposition regarding the earth, Le.
when the moon is "full", the material earth will receive its full flow of life

and that is why this time and the time of the "waxing" Moon works so
favourably on vegetation and all that has to do with matter. For us it is the
time of working, of material transposition of our power, and to begin
new enterprises, to gain experience; whereas during the time of the new
Moon the material current is weakest, the spiritual flow of the Sun, on the other
hand, can work in its full force and that is why that time and the time of
the waning Moon are more fit for spiritual work, for working out material

experiences and for transcending them. It is the time for meditation and self-

communication, so in a sense, for that which is negative, receptive.
Many a simple farmer and fieldlabourer will be able to tell you how some

plants, when sown while the Moon is waxing, shoot forth into leaves, whereas
their roots develop much stronger and which give more seed, when sown
while the Moon is waning. He will tell you how the Moon regulates his various
activities on the fields.

The Javanese will tell you that bamboo must be cut when the Moon is

new, if one wants it to be durable. But the conclusion should not be made that

every farmer and every Javanese knows of these things!
Helmont says that a killed frog even in winter, when exposed to the rays

of the full Moon for one night, will change into a slimy mass.
Kiesewetter mentions in Die Geheimwissenschaften, II p. 246, "when the

Wallaba-tree (South-Africa, very resinous) is felled a few days before the new
Moon, it produces durable timber that is not easily split. If it is, however,
felled towards full Moon, it will easily be cut up into fine smooth boards,
and also split into staves, but the wood is not at all durable in that case.

As the Moon is the principal influence of all that is physical, we can
understand that especially those who have a very sensitive physical body
(those who are sensitive) respond extremely to Moon-influences. Their moods
fluctuating with the Moon, the beams of the full Moon work cheeringly on
them to a high degree; they cannot go asleep when a Moon-beam pene-



57

trates their bed-room ; in a pitch dark room they will with certainty point out
to you the direction where the Moon is in the skies, etc. On this see the inte-

resting proofs with sensitives made by Von Reichenbach. (Cf. The Od.).
According to Reichenbach the Moon radiates principally positive od, the

Sun negative od ; the earth's surface is od-negative, but its core is od-positive
and this is also the case with the other planets and their moons.

We should not mix up this od of Reichenbach with electric or magnetic
emanations, though it is a constant accompanier of it.

Brandler Pracht speaks about the Moon's influence on iron as follows:
"If one leaves a sharp knife during one night in the window-sill and allows
the full Moon to shine on it, this knife becomes useless and cannot be made
really sharp again even by repeated whetting."

It is further known that certain medical herbs, gathered at certain aspects
of Moon and planets have a stronger effect than under other influences. Some
medical men and pharmacists may deny this with authority, but we suppose
that their authority is founded on ignorance concerning this.

The great influence which lunatics, hysterical and epileptical people expe-
rience with the Moon's changes is known ; the word moon-struck is even used.

It is not doubtful that the critical days with acute illnesses may be calcu-
lated beforehand, according to the positions of the Moon. The critical days are
those when the Moon is in tf, 8 and D with the place it occupied at the

beginning of the illness; so that after that beginning the 8th, the 15th, the
22nd day we may expect a temporary change for the worse. (See chapter on
Astrology and Medicine). Through cosmic influences temporarily working in
an opposite sense, these periodical changes for the worse, may, of course, not
take place; but the weekly rhythm is present.

So if we regard the Moon as the life-giver of all that is physical, we must
always bear in mind that the Moon receives its power and the life that it

gives from the Sun, just as this is the case with the planets. There, also the
Sun is the original source. Without Sun no spiritual life, but no physical
manifestation in form as well.

As the goddess of the Moon, Artemis bears the name of "Hekate" i.e.

striking from afar.

The Hekate is triple, triangular, for the 3 phases of the Moon, full

waning, waxing. Offerings are brought to her on three-forked ways and cross-

ways by preference.
She is symbolized in different ways e.g. as the goddess of hunting. She is

represented, sitting on a chariot drawn by deer.

Mercury ().

Type: Joe Chamberlain. Though he had the 1st degree of 25 rising, the

position of $ in 25 13' gives him quite the appearance and character of

Mercury.

Mercury is the expression of all planets taken together and that is

why he is called the winged messenger of the Gods. With Gods is

meant here, the planetary Logoi or Deva's. J
)

!) More about this in the esoteric treatise, and in "Cosmos and Microcosmos"
by C. Aq. Libra.



58

His Chaldean name is Nebo i.e. knowledge, and the Hebrew, Egyptian,
and Greek names also have the same significance. We find the word
Nebo back in a number of historical names such as: Nebucadnezar,
Nabo-Polasser etc. It denotes viz. "power" as well and so many Baby-
lonian kings were called after it.

Mercury is the God of thieves and of merchants, it is not flattering
for the latter to be arranged under the same heading! Its colour is

yellow, its tone is E.

Formerly it bore the name of Hermes. Its symbol is the Caduceus
(two serpents curled round a staff and looking in a mirror), the God
Mercury is always represented with this symbol. It governs the thought-
centre of the brains, and memory, speech, nostrils, lungs, nerves, hands
and feet. Its illnesses are complaints of these e.g. impediments of speech
(stammering, lisping), further hoarseness, nervous cough etc.

The Aspects of and $ with G> d. = 48. B = 28.



59

Seen from the earth Mercury, being so close to the Sun, removes
not farther than 28 from the Sun, and so can only form a few aspects
with the Sun. (See fig. p. 58).

$ comes next to the Moon in velocity of movement.
Its nature is fluctuating, changeable, cold and dry. When in"a strong

position in the horoscope it influences the build of the body and the
character : viz. it makes the body lean and slender, the arms long, face
narrow-cheeked and long, nose protruding, often sharp. Hair and beard are
black and thin. Movements and gait quick. The forehead is well-deve-
loped and so are the brains.

Its influence produces students of literature and exact sciences ; they
are very receptive, quick and sharp at argument and often good speakers
and writers. The faults that Mercury produces are egoism and self-

conceit. One might typify this fault by saying: "God knows all, but an
unharmonic Mercury-type knows all better."

Like the Moon, takes the colour of the sign in which it is placed
e.g. in fiery signs it makes the thoughts sharp and keen, in the airy
signs =2= and s: it makes idealistic and fond of art, in n it gives
a penetrating and acute intellect, in ni it makes sarcastic and at times
fickle etc.

Everything depends further on the aspects which receives from
the other planets. Every aspect of the D is favourable and produces
adaptability, but the bad aspects bring at the same time much change-
ability and difficulty to concentrate the thoughts. A good aspect of 2J.

gives a pure feeling of right and makes tolerant and generous ; a good
aspect of Saturn makes the intellect fit for concentration and for profound
study in general. Saturn shuns all haste and superficiality. A good
aspect of $ gives taste and love for art and all that is elegant and
beautiful, in some cases, however, sensuousness and superficiality.
It produces people that seek only the bright side of life. A good aspect

1

of d gives courage, self-reliance, spirit of enterprise, sharpness, love of

argument and power to conquer obstacles whereas e.g. a bad aspect
of ft gives the contrary viz. want of courage and of self-reliance, want of

firmness, fear, timidity and despondency.
A good aspect of $ makes the intellect original, inventive, intuitive

departing from the commonplace and everyday things. The character

may seem strange and incomprehensible under this influence, but original
and interesting it most surely is. These people are enemies of all that
is conventional, enemies of all imitation.

A good aspect of ^ will have no more effect than a dreamy, absent
and strange tendency with a lower developed individual, as regards his

thinking and feeling but with a
; higher developed individual that begins

to respond normally to the high vibrations of this occult planet, it will

produce a high and fine feeling for art, a gift to decipher the secrets
of nature, i.e. it allows him to see something there, where nothing
exists to others, it gives some genius, it endows with insight into



60

things metaphysical. We need only study the nativities of P. B. Shelley,
John Keats, Franz Liszt, Anton Rubinstein, Rudolf Steiner and others to
understand the truth of this Neptune-influence.

As regards the environment of the native, Mercury represents in the

horoscope the younger brothers and sisters.

The action of Mercury in the various signs is treated later on. (See p. 120).

Mercury (Hermes) was the son of Jupiter (Zeus) and Maia. He is represented
as the messenger of the gods, and as early as God-child, great restlessness, men-
dacity, sharpness and thievishness show with him. He steals 50 head of cattle, but
lies so cleverly that Apollo begins to laugh. As a pastoral god he is represented
with a ram, which he leads or carries. For the rest he has winged feet and a felt
hat on his head.

Venus ($).

Type : the Emperor Francis Joseph. He has = rising and the ruler of this sign
$ in M. C.

Also called Beauty. The Aphrodite of the Greeks. She was called
Astarte with the Phoenicians. Nona with the Babylonians, Isktar with
the Assyrians, Astoreth is the Hebrew name. The return of the banished
Isktar from the kingdom of Hades to the earth is the Assyrian symbol
of the coming spring. (The Sun enters Taurus in April ; $ is the ruler of Taurus).

It was Freya, Lakshmi (the wife of Vishnu); it was the goddess of

matrimony, love and beauty. It is also known under the names of

Lucifer and Hesperus. Venus was the wife of Vulcanus. Its influence is

good, next to Jupiter it is our greatest benefic. Its note is A, its colour

yellowish-blue. It governs the uterus, the genitals, ovaries, the throat,
the Eustachian auditory tube, the veins, the breasts, the kidneys, jaws,
and chin, and its illnesses are often the consequence of an excess of

sensuality.
In the horoscope it represents elder sisters, wife, mother, sweetheart.
Its nature is feminine, cold and humid.
Where Venus occupies a strong position in the horoscope it leads

to early attraction to the other sex, to love of all that is beautiful and
harmonious, but also to amusement and gratification of the senses. As
long as the Venus-influence is not purified by Jupiter and Saturn, the
last mentioned quality remains the dominating one in Venus. Mars
(passion), the other pole of Venus, must be overcome in order that the
delicate action of Venus in all its purity and beauty can manifest. We
can distinguish 2 kinds of Venus-types, the high type, seeking "beauty",
all that is idealistic and the low one, seeking sensuous pleasure.

Venus produces a fairly short, plump body with a round dimpled
face, bright, kind eyes, dimpled chin, and pleasant voice; its good
influence makes the native kind, helpful, philantropic, artistic but when

;

strongly afflicted careless and sensual. The latter especially when



61

aspected by Mars. So we must regard in a sense every aspect of Mars
and in fact of Uranus as well, as unfavourable, because the latter

always gives a strange touch to the tendencies of Venus.
A badly aspected $ in a masculine horoscope denotes that the

native cannot manage well with the other sex in the long run. The
same is indicated in a feminine horoscope where Mars (the antipode of

$) is badly aspected. With good aspects respectively the reverse may
be accepted in a general sense.

In mythology Venv.s is represented now as naked, and now in a sea-green
veil (born from the foam of the sea), she is usually accompanied by Swans and
doves and by her son Amor (Cupid).

Aphrodite is usually brought into connection with the departure of spring and
this is symbolized in the legend of Aphrodite and Adonis.

Mars (rf) !).

Type : Kaiser Wilhelm II, though he has 2B as ascendant, yet the influence of d"
in M. C. is strong enough to be shown in appearance and character. The purest
Mars-type is certainly the English poet Swinburne.

Mars was the God of war and of hunting. He was the son of Jupiter
(Zeus) and Juno and was held in high honour in the Roman Empire.

Mars is the God of force. In the Bible Mars is symbolised by the
Devil. In Greek, Ares; Egyptian, Artes; Sanscrit, Avahoek = sharp.

Mars governs the face, the bile, the taste, the genitals and the mus-
cular system and causes illnesses of these parts.

Its illnesses are of an inflammatory kind, such as fevers, the pox,
pimples, tumours, acute abscesses, wounds of cutting or burning, espe-
cially occurring in the face and further in the parts represented by the

sign in which Mars is placed. Mars marks its children by impressing
them with its stamp! Thus he or she that is born with Mars in the
ascendant will usually be marked in the face.

In the horoscope Mars represents the elder brothers and in a feminine
horoscope the husband.

Its note is G, its colour red (the dark Mars-red). Taken in a general
sense, Mars governs the animal kingdom and in man the animal ten-
dencies and qualities. When strongly posited in the horoscope it gives
a dry, muscular, tall body with a lean head, broadened at the temples.
The chin is pointed. The bones are strongly developed. Mars gives

1

often red or fair curly hair, especially if d is in the ascendant. Its

nature is malefic, hot and dry, choleric, pasionate and fiery.
The character is combative, courageous, generous, vehement; wild

at times. The Mars-type shrinks from nothing and by his strong desire,

!) The very small planet Eros which is between the Earth and Mars, need not
be taken into account by us. Its influence is not known. Some arrange it among
the Asteroids, it is, however, in another place as these.



62

which spurs him to action, and his perseverance, though it is not long-
lived, he usually succeeds in all his enterprises. Where he does not
succeed, it is his superabundance of push and zeal, which often spoils
his own affairs.

The lower Mars-type, especially with a strong affliction of Mars,
is decidedly dangerous, often cruel, treacherous and always rude. If

Saturn moreover cooperates with (or fights) Mars in this direction, a
regular ruffian or murderer type will be the effect.

With a higher-evolved Ego Mars, of course, does not express itself

in this way, but when in a strong position in the horoscope, it cannot
help impressing its stamp on the personality viz. as impulsiveness, pas-
sionate-ness, sensuousness etc.

The calling of those who come strongly under Mars has to do with
iron and sharp instruments, or biting-in fluids; they are metal-workers
smiths, stokers, butchers, "barbers, carpenters, soldiers and military men
in general, surgeons, chemists, dentists.

Mars is the son of Zeus and Juno. As the god of war he symbolises force,
courage and audacity especially. He is symbolised as a young, strong hero, or naked
in full armour with a helmet on his short thick hair, a small mouth and deep-
set eyes. He is armed with a shield and a spear and cries and shrieks; there is

quarrel and discord in his company and that is why he is avoided by the gods.
Mars = March. March-showers *Y*, November-storms tit. In both cases cf is the ruler
of the sign in which the Sun is in March and November.

Jupiter (2J.).

Type : Edward VII. He had rising and the ruler 2J. on the ascendant. Also the
ex-president Taft. The expansive nature of shows itself

Qj freely here.
.

The great benefactor of humanity. Jupiter is the symbol of wisdom.
With the old Greeks he is the father of the gods-Zews; with the Norse
Thor; with the Egyptians Ammon; with the Chaldeans and Baby-
lonians Merodach or Bel Merodach. He is the God of righteousness
and of justice. The temples of Ammon and Dodona a.o. were devoted
to him.

Jupiter governs the lungs, the liver, blood, digestive organs, and
when afflicted it can cause disturbances and illnesses in these parts.

Taken in a general sense Jupiter governs the vegetable kingdom
and the idealistic tendencies of man.

Of the native's environment 2|. represents the mostly optimist of the

family.
As soon as the lower qualities in man have been suppressed it

evolves in man the imaginative consiousness, the fore-runner of intuition
and inspiration. Jupiter's symbol means that the spirit (here the intellect),

symbolised by J), has risen over the limitations of matter (+) and thus
has become free in its imaginative flight.



63

Its nature is moderately warm and humid, its colour is violet and
indigo, its note is B.

Jupiter in the ascendant or in good aspect to the ascendant or to

O and 3) is a token of good health and of success in life. As its action
is an enlarging one, so causing expansion, both on the material plane
and on the higher planes, it does not only enlarge our consciousness,
but if it is placed in the house that represents the body viz. theascen-
dant, it makes the body large and robust.

The Jupiter-type has a robust, well-built body, a tendency to stout-

ness, a high forehead, is likely to be soon bald-headed. The eyes are
full. The glance is open and prepossessing. The hair is usually fair and
the complexion is fresh and fair.

Jupiter has 9 moons. It is by far the largest planet of our solar system.
A strong position of Jupiter, e.g. in the ascendant or M. C. or a

good aspect of Jupiter to sun and moon or to the ruler of the ascendant,
further also a good aspect of 2|. to $ will improve a strongly afflicted

horoscope very much. The good things may linger, but under a strong
Jupiter-influence they are sure to come at length.

The Jupiter-type therefore is jovial (Jove), hopeful, optimistic, he
trusts in his "good stars" he says, and in using that expression he is

as a rule ignorant of the real meaning of the word.
Jupiter makes one kindly-disposed, humane, honest, devout, popular

and esteemed, but if it receives strong afflictions or is posited in a
sign that is inharmonious to its nature, it makes one proud, vain,
selfish, conceited, hypocritical and the honesty of Jupiter's influence

changes into a tendency to follow the general current and to be on
good terms with everybody. The tendency of desiring to be jovial and
of liking to impress forcibly is natural to the Jupiter-type.

Jupiter is usually represented in the myths as siting on a gold throne with
lightning in his right hand and a sceptre in his left and a diadem on his head and
he has a long undulating beard. The eagle at his feet is his favourite bird.

Zeus is also represented sitting on the trunk of a tree, with a cock in his lap
as the symbol of the rising day. Under Saturn more will be said about Zeus as a god.

Saturn (I?).

Type: Abraham Lincoln, ft in the asc. () gives him the typical Saturnine appearance.

T? is the channel through which all have to pass if we are to raise
our consciousness to a higher phase, and through imagination, intuition
and inspiration come to a better conception of man and the Cosmos.
It is the "Watcher on the Threshold" that makes clear to us what we
have to overcome of lower tendencies and qualities, before we may
pass the threshold. It is the purifier, the refiner, symbolised in the Bible
as Satan, the tempter, represented in man as the lower self. It is

Ahriman, who gives us false ideas of everything and makes us overlook
the real background of things as is, indeed, expressed in his symbol



64

(ft) i.e. matter (-h) over soul Q)). In other words he makes the spirit

appear as being subjected to matter and so limites thought to matter.
Saturn, therefore, represents cold brain-thinking. As soon as, however the

lesson is learnt the spirit begins to master the lower self, the symbol
becomes reversed to the symbol of Jupiter (2J.), where the soul is put
over matter. Then, however, Saturn appears as a higher Jupiter, viz.

not as the bringer of imaginative consciousness, but as the bringer
of intuition and by that the source of the knowledge collected in

previous lives becomes opened to us and our view immeasurably
enlarged. Beforehand, however, we must by training (thinking) develop
the latent braincells in order that they can serve as channels for our

knowledge, gathered in former existences. Our physical brains therefore
are, here too, the instrument.

Saturn has 10 moons x
).

Its colours are grey, black and green, its note is D.
So we see that Saturn's good influence leads to the highest goal,

whereas its bad influence expresses itself in all forms of limitation,
such as coldness, hardheartedness, indifference, carelessness, avarice,
mistrust, falseness, cowardice, fear, despondency and indolence. Those
who come strongly under this lower Saturn-influence have a most
miserable life and often end by committing suicide.

Such a one can be known out of a thousand by his lean, somewhat
bent body, black hair, thin beard, long and emaciated face, dark, gloomy
eyes that never look one straight in the face, but are usually fixed to
the ground. Whatever he begins, fails, he does not succeed in his

enterprises, and he spreads an atmosphere of misery and sadness round
him which repels people. Indeed, he prefers being by himself.

ft governs the bones and joints, liver, spleen, and knees. In
a general sense we can say that the mineral kingdom is ruled by
Saturn and so it governs in our body those parts that serve for support
and affixing, such as the bones and calcerious formations. All that is

concrete, in our thinking also, comes under Saturn.
If Saturn is strongly posited in a horoscope and receives good

aspects, it gives perseverance, power of work, a deep thinking intellect,
the gift of concentration, intuition and it endows the native with skill

and tact.

In M. C. especially and in the 4th house ft is very badly posited, if

it receives here bad aspects from other planets. In M. C. it causes great
difficulties in all enterprises, the honour is continually threatened and
a fall is pretty well sure, however firm the native may stand. In 4, ft

predestines a sad old age, usually in solitude, far from one's people

!) The moons of Saturn move all in the direction of the plane of its ring, except
Japetus, whose course forms a rather large angle with that ring. Japetus is about
the size of our Moon and its ever changing brightness has caused men to accept
that it has an atmosphere, which made Proctor and other astronomers suggest
ihat it is inhabited.



65

and friends. In 2 it brings poverty in 5
; childlessness or sorrow through

the children, in 6 illness, in 7 it delays and works unfavourably on
marriage and on all that belongs to the united life etc.

A strong Saturn is of great value in a horoscope. It makes a true
friend, on whom one can rely in all circumstances. He has become
this under ft's discipline.

Abraham Lincoln is a very striking Saturn-type.
When the lower influence of Saturn has been overcome, it gives

great force by its favourable effect on thinking and by doing away with
all haste and impetuosity. Such a one has learnt to be silent and has
stopped all argumenting and criticism. He is a man of few words and
is seldom positive in his decision, but what he says is correct. By his
attitude he proves the truth of the proverb: "Silence is power".

The majority of great men who have made the world speak about
them and have enlightened us by their knowledge, had Saturn very
strongly in their horoscopes.

A few examples: Goethe had Saturn on cusp 1, Napoleon in 10,
P. B. Shelley had Saturn on cusp 4, Abraham Lincoln on cusp 1, Lord
Byron in 4, Charles Dickens in 4, Martin Luther on cusp 10, Edison has
r? in 4, Stanley in 1 etc.

This shows again the necessity of knowing the moral standpoint of
the native in judging his horoscope; for with the low type a not very
"well aspected Saturn in an angular house, especially 1 and 10, is very
unfavourable. Saturn in 10 is the token of a sure fall, as it indeed
was in the life of Napoleon Bonaparte.

Saturn is represented in mythology as an old man, who holds in his right hand
a scythe and in his left a serpent that, curled in a circle, holds the end of his tail

in his mouth.
Saturn, the youngest of the sons (Titans) of Uranos, bereft his father of the

reign and took the latter's place (physical manifestation of the earth). It had been
predicted that one of his sons would drive him from the throne and he therefore
devoured all his children (the overcoming of the lower qualities of r))-

The youngest, however, Zeus (Q|.), was saved by his mother. With his brothers'

help Zeus began to wage war against Chronos and the other Titans; which war
ended by Zeus being conqueror (the sign ft becomes reversed in the symbol of

Jupiter, 21, instead of matter ruling spirit, spirit now rules matter.
The Titans were thrown in the Tartarus, i. e. the lower tendencies return to the

place whence they took their origin.
Zeus shares the universal empire with his brothers; he himself gets dominion

over the heavenly empire, Poseidon gets the sea and the waters, Pluto becomes
ruler of the nether-world and the abode of the dead, where he marries Persephone,
daughter to Demeter (Ceres).

Uranus

Type: Emmanuel Swedenborg, he had 9 in strong aspect to O and !>

This planet, also called Herschel after the discoverer, though it also
owes its origin to the Sun according to the nebular theory of Kant-

5



66

Laplace, does not quite belong to our three-dimensional natural kingdom.
It forms just like Neptune, a transition from the third to the fourth
dimension and that is why the influences which come from these two
planets are so confused and weird. Both give the impulse to the origination
of eccentric art which however incomprehensible and deformed for the

eye, yet is the transition, the fore-runner of the art of the future that
will gradually ripen under the mysterious influence of these planets.
The attempts made nowadays are no more than the stammerings of a child.

Only those who have developed their conciousness to a higher plane,
can somewhat answer these high vibrations and there are but very few
of those. The greater part do not respond or respond but imperfectly.
The latter are those who have Uranus strongly posited but are not
evolved far enough to understand it. The result is eccentricity, a great
independence and impulsiveness, strange, sometimes silly manners and
habits; it produces odd people that are often not understood by others
and usually scarcely by themselves. They act under impulses, of which
they themselves do not know the origin. A clear example of this peculiar
Uranus-action may undoubtedly be seen in some Futurists, e.g. the
Cubists, who viz. produce a kind of positive chaos, there is something
hard and decided in it, which does not occur with the Neptune-chaos
(see Neptune p. 67).

If the individual is higher evolved the influence of Uranus will be
expressed, besides in oddity, in love to anything extraordinary, in a
strong attraction to occult science, astrology, love for antiquities and in

general for something that is closely connected with genius. Aeronautics
e.g. comes under #. With aeronauts we shall always find a strong
Uranus-influence in the horoscope.

Van Maasdijk, the unhappy Dutch aeronaut, e.g. had $: in n (airy
sign) n cf and cf in the 10th house.

They excel by their inborn gifts of intuition, inspiration, and clair-

voyance in studies connected with life and nature in general ; they find
solutions where others see no light. That is the reason why inventors
must be sought under the Uranus-types. Their lives are as it were, in

a higher octave than that of ordinary men.
Thus it is that Uranus is looked upon as a higher octave of Mercury ;

that is why ..that which is feeble, in the lower type is expressed in

thinking. It is the planet of the higher intellect. Neptune is in the same
way a higher octave of Venus and we see that the weakness with the
lower Neptune-type is expressed in feeling (see Neptune).

Uranus has 4 moons.
Uranus is in its action malefic and sudden; like lightning does its

action strike us and in quickness of activity it surpasses the planet
Mars, though it is much less malefic than Mars.

Astrologers, occultists, spiritualists, hypnotisers, aeronauts, electricians,

antiquaries come strongly under Uranus' influence.
Uranus hates all convention, is original in everything and very



67

impulsive; of course, much depends on the aspects and of the sign. In

airy signs it is best.
Uranus is counted with ft and d* among the malefics and such it is

in its bad aspects. Its conjunctions and parallels can work in a malefic

way only on characters holding on to what is old. These aspects just
denote to them that they have to tear themselves away from old things
and from convention. Uranus accomplishes here its calling of "awakener"
or "stimulator" to broader, progressed things.
We cannot and must not think and act as our fore-fathers, however

good and beautiful their thoughts may have been, we may learn by
their example, but must ever bear in mind that everything evolves and
widens, our consciousness and thinking as well. Uranus is the pioneer,
the reformer and anyone who cooperates in this progressing spirit will

get to know Uranus not as a malefic but as a benefic. Uranus sym-
bolises the transition to a higher phase of consciousness and at the same
time the transition to a higher dimension, for together with the widening
of consciousness there will be revealed to us a world that is manifested
in more dimensions than the three of the physical world. "New life

goes then along new paths."
So Uranus reveals to us a four-dimensional, new world (the astral

world) which always surrounds us on all sides but which becomes
observable only under the awakening influence of this planet that

belongs to a higher octave.
That is why Uranus is also called the planet of clairvoyance.
$[ rules the aura.

According to mythology Uranus arose from Chaos, the infinite empty space and
became heaven, which vaults Gea (the earth) thus being united in wedlock with
the earth. Their children were the Titans of whom Chronos (Saturn) was the youngest.

In Greek mythology we read that Saturn has been castrated by Uranus. So,
here too, we find hidden in a symbolic form the deep truth that Saturn must do
away with his lower inclinations in order to rise to the higher consciousness of Uranus.

Neptune (t).

Type: Leo Tolsty, he had in VII.
tjf

What has been said of Uranus relating to the height of its vibrations
and the impossibility for nearly all mankind to respond normally to
them, holds true for Neptune in a still higher measure. This planet also
is not purely in the three-dimensional condition in which our earth is

and in which our senses observe the surroundings; hence the great
difficulty to answer its vibrations. Neptune, the Psyche, the Poseidon of
the ancient Greeks, is in a still stronger measure the planet of chaos,
than Uranus. That which is chaotic expresses itself here more in feeling
than in thinking, because, as we saw, ^ may be regarded as a higher
octave of $.

All that is nebulous, vaque and indefinite comes under Neptune and
further also the fine arts, violin-playing, (play of feeling). A good aspect



68

of t with O D r gives often a tendency and talent for the fine

arts; sometimes also, with highly evolved individuals it brings genius,
as may be shown by various horoscopes of ingenious people.

Very little is known of this planet, seeing that it was discovered so
late as 1846 and the investigations therefore are of a relatively recent date.

Neptune has one moon.
Where t occupies a strong place in the horoscope e.g. in an angle, one

might expect some peculiarity; sometimes a tendency or characteristic
which the native does not like to give information about because it is a
riddle to himself. With aspects to Sun, Moon or Mercury we may expect a
little spark of genius, but as already said, only with the highly evolved
man. With the lower type Neptune has a chaotic or perverse action.

In the ascendant ^ gives large, light blue eyes and a much wrinkled face.

Psychometry, clairaudience and telepathy are qualities which come
under this planet.

Neptune is no malefic, but because so few can respond to its good
influence, it is counted among the malefics by many.

A few examples of strong and harmonic Neptune-action we have
in the horoscopes of the two occultists Dr. R. Steiner and C. W. Lead-
beater. The former has d W in 5 in Pisces and the latter and Q
tf in 10 in Aquarius. With the former the action is expressed on
the mental plane especially, with the latter on the astral.

Neptune is distinguished from all other planets by its moon moving
round it in a direction opposite the movements of the moons of all

other planets. This is an interesting point for those who study esoterics.

Neptune is best in watery signs especially in Pisces.
As Venus is called the planet of love, we may call its higher octave

Neptune, the planet of higher, universal love of mankind.
Many artists and would-be artists come very strongly under the

perversed action of Neptune, expressed in showy dress, long hair,
and often a manifold use of the "wet" of the earth. It seems as if they,
by strange conduct and dress want to make up for what they fall short
of in artisticity. They feel nebulously, and interpret nebulously and
vaguely in their accomplishments. The sharp contrasts in line and tone
which are the characteristics under Uranus influence are never found
here; that which is extraordinary and incomprehensible is expressed in

quite a different way with this mysterious planet.

Neptune, the God of the Sea, is represented as a strong man armed with a
trident and surrounded by dolphins and tritons. Though he is known as an unfaith-
ful, adulterous husband, he is highly honoured as a God, especially on the coasts.

His palace is situated in the depths of the sea at the coast of Nehaia and, in
the neighbourhood of Samos, the twelve towns of the Asia-Minor-Jonic-union held
the festival of the Seagod Neptune.

The places of the earth which are turned over by the wheels of his chariot
(a gigantic shell) he makes fertile and, joined with the nymphs, he gives being to
a strong generation.

His living attributes are the horse, the bull, and the dolphin.



Graphology.

The Sun: Regular circles, full curves and spirals.
The Moon: Irregular, crooked lines.

Mercury: Short, sharp lines and gentle, fine curves.
Venus: Rhythmic curies and curves.
Mars: Sharp angles and hooks; fine, straight lines.

Jupiter: Full, firm lines and curls.

Saturn: Hard, short and straight lines, shrunken forms.
Uranus: Weird, original, fine curls and hooks.

Neptune: Vague indistinct curls and curves, here and there broken
off, and rhythmic.

It will undoubtedly give surprising results to study the handwritings
of the different planetary types in connection with the above list.

Parallels as well may be drawn between the planetary type and
the style of writing which corresponds to it.

Geocentric Movement of the Planets, etc.

3) goes through all signs of the Zodiac in 27 days 7 hrs. 4 min.

O go , * one year.
d goes 20 months.
21- * * . . . * 12 years,
r? * **... 29V2 years.
# 84 years.
? , . 156

,, years.
The time on an average is given. By their ^-movement the time is

sometimes a little less, sometimes more.
The rotating upon their own axis, so the length of the day is

on & 1

$, d about the same as the earth's, so 24 hrs.

on 2|. 10 hrs.; on T? 10.30 hrs.; on $ 9.30 hrs.

Moons



70

The Senses and the Planets.

5 governs the sight.
$ feeling.

1

d taste.

SJ. smelling.
r? hearing.
T&. clairvoyance. ) Two senses that still have to

tp psychometric sense.
} be evolved.

Planetary Spheres.

An electric hypothesis.

How the planets can influence us, and what the real essence of those
influences are, I mean the spiritual substance of them, is a question that
should be answered by esoteric astrology, inasmuch as it can be put in
words. I can only say here that we must represent that which we call
a planet to be an infinitesimal part of its real, almost infinite sphere
which influences us. It is only the physical centre of its power, just as
we should regard the visible Sun as the physical centre of power, or as
the heart of our planetary system. The real, higher spheres of the planets
permeate each other, and the Sun in its turn permeates the whole. The
Sun, as the heart sends its vital power (Prana) through the whole body
of the Cosmos, just like the human heart provides the body with the

nourishing blood.
"As above so below."
Because we usually observe with our material senses only and as these

play us tricks in all regards, we have a very limited representation of the

planets and we see only that small part which manifests physically to
our eye. The real planet escapes our observation and so it is with
everything around us; we observe only the outer side of things; the
real substance is beyond us.

So we can imagine that the substance of the planets permeates the
earth i.e. manifests on and through our earth and in all that lives and
evolves. Thus we arrive at a better insight in its actions and influences.

A material explanation that may be of assistance, might be found
in the following:

Science teaches us that in and on the surface of our earth constant

magnetic and electric currents move, ever subject to change. With regard
to our earth we speak of positive and negative magnetic and electric

currents; the earth has its magnetic poles etc. In short we may
regard the earth as a gigantic electro-magnet, and surely the other

planets as well.
With this representation agrees what is known of the specific weight



71

of the earth, viz. if we take the average of the spec. weightjof that

part of the crust of the earth we know, (taking land and seas on an
average) we arrive at a S. W. of the earth's crust of about 2.5. It has,
however, been shown that the S. W. of our earth is about 5.4, so the
conclusion must be made that the greater part by far of our earth's
core must have a S. W. of at least 6.5 7 which is pretty nearly
that of iron.

We may expect the same with the other planets, seeing that they
originated from the same source; on the understanding, however, that
here, through more or less density, the aggregate may differ conside-

rably. It is only another condition of vibration and it is just this vibration

occurring in infinite change, that is the real reason of the maya, the
illusion, of all that is material; it is the condition of vibration which
hides that which is really virtual behind an unvirtual mask, the

godly thought crystallized as it were. Something else however makes
this logical supposition a certainty.

For what is it we see? The meteorites which now and again
come down on our earth and which are looked upon as the remains
of a vanished heavenly body, consist principally of iron, so-called
meteor-iron.

It is only reasonably to suppose that the component parts of our
cosmos (except a part of the Comets) took their origin from the Sun
(according to the Kant-Laplace theory) and the difference in composition
cannot be large therefore. We may take it that the earth's core also
consists of meteor-iron.

The sun constantly shines on the gigantic magnet of our earth which
means that this is constantly being laden with electricity.

All data, therefore, are supplied to compare as is pointed out in the
above treatise, our planets, to gigantic electro-magnetic bodies (in a
merely physical sense, of course), exercising a reciprocal action on each
other, changing continually, according to the positions they occupy with
regard to each other.

As to the Sun I need only point out the fact that the violent electric and
magnetic storms which sometimes made such sad havoc here, appear to be
connected with the becoming visible of solar spots, so the disturbances in

the electric emanation of the Sun (Pr<ma) entail disturbances in the electric

equilibrium of the earth. So there is an electric current from the Sun to
the earth and logically also vice versa. The Sun sends out no heat, but
its electric currents meet resistance in the atmosphere and at the earth's
surface and consequently heat arises. The atmosphere acts as a pro-
tection here, for the earth would be scorched, if the electric currents,
\vithout this protecting atmosphere, met the full resistance of the earth's
crust. There where the earth's atmosphere is very thin e.g. on high
mountain tops, the effect of the Sun's rays on the skin is much stronger
than down below. Every mountaineer knows this. The cause of it is not

absolutely the reflexion of the Sun's rays by the snow on the fields of ice.



72

As a matter of course, if we go further, after the existence of
electric sources in the Cosmos has been shown, we accept that these
electric currents undergo modifications according to the sources (the
centres of power) changing their places in relation to each other, (the
Aspects of the planets).
We should not imagine that the planetary influences serve to bring

only our earth and all that is on it, to perfection. It would be very
absurd to suppose that we signify so much more than the inhabitants
of the other planets, and that our planet, one of the smallest, would
signify more than all other planets taken together. Our earth in its

turn works at the evolution of our entire Cosmos and the other planets
experience our influence as well as we theirs.

We have enough to do in our earthly household without bothering
with these others, but of those who doubt whether the other planets
are inhabited I should like to ask if they can imagine a single spot
where no life manifests itself in some form?

Life is everywhere, evolution is everywhere, only the form and the

way in which it expresses itself, changes of course, according to the

given conditions, and these conditions on the other planets differ greatly
with those on our earth.

Our solar system is the objective original of all that we can observe
in nature as copy and seeing that the solar system is subject to endless
and numerous changes, the number of different copies and reflections
of it is also endless, endless not only in man, but in animal and plant
as well and if we look for it, we can find in every plant, flower, and
animal the relation it bears to a certain constellation. Man, animal, plant
and mineral are, as it were, the symbols of the Cosmos in its different

stages and it must be possible to indicate this in numbers.
The planets are in reality in us and the reverse, we are in the

planets, just as the planets and the earth are in the Logos and the

Logos in us. Our physical senses show us only that which we might
call the symbols of the Cosmos, viz. the physical manifestation of the

heavenly bodies. In the same way we might regard all that we observe
physically, as symbols of the real Essence of the things we cannot
observe with our senses.

Everything around us in nature, down to the slightest atom of matter
bears the stamp of the whole Cosmos, of the Sun and its planets

and according to a certain part of the Cosmos expressing itself

stronger than the other parts, we may arrange the creatures of the four

kingdoms man, animal, plant, mineral, under the Sun, Moon and the
various planets. Paracelsushas pointed out the way to do so very ingeniously.

Our knowledge of physics improves ever and with every new dis-

covery new prospects are opened. This was the case when Maxwell
discovered the connection between the velocity of light and the electric
and magnetic constants.



73

In the electron is found the negative atom-unit of electricity i.e. in
the microcosmos of the atom is discovered the planets and in

; course
of time the positive atom-unit will possibly also be found, i.e. the Sun
of the atom-microcosmos.

The atom with its electrons is believed by material science to be
the prototype of a complete planetary system on a small scale and in
this the electrons represent the planets, while the positive atom-unit,
which they are searching for, of our atom-microcosmos, represents the Sun.

It is the great discovery of our century ; the electric theory of matter
and we have been brought to accept adhesion, cohesion, magnetism,
radiation to be products of electricity. And the Sun is the inexhaustible
source of all that electricity.

As the earth is being influenced, so does it influence in its turn the
other planets and their inhabitants. We must look upon the planets as

spiritual beings with a body, a soul and a spirit like man
; and together

with man these cosmic beings are included in evolution.
That, in reality, every heavenly body we know under the name of

star, planet etc. is a living being, is a doctrine which has been pro-
claimed at all times, from the philosophies of the olden times down to
the occult teachings of now a days. We find this doctrine also in the
various periods of time between these extremes. Plato says (I quote from
an English translation), "The Sun, the Moon, and each of the Stars, has
a distinct soul inherent in itself or peculiar to its own body. Each of
these souls invested in the celestial substance and in each of the visible
celestial bodies, is a God." ]

)

However highly evolved and individualised, their life and their con-
sciousness is in a sense, the life and the consciousness of the Logos.

However strange it may seem on the surface of it, to represent the
real planets as permeating each other, in reality it is not so passing
strange if we accept the development of the physical planets according
to the Nebular-theory, in which the ring from which later the planet
contracted itself, represents the outward boundary of the real planet. All
that lies inside the ring, was therefore originally the substance of the

planet and this it remains, also when later there forms itself inside the

ring a centre of power that manifests on the three-dimensional plane
the physical planet.

The Essence of the Sun-Logos comprises and permeates all planets,
which we may regard as the organs of the Sun-Logos, with the physical
Sun as heart.

The four elements in the Cosmos (1 earth, 2 water, 3 air, 4 fire)

correspond to 1. solid bodies, 2. blood and lymph, 3. breathing, 4. the
heat of the body of the microcosmos, and so we might go on drawing
parallels between Cosmos and man. "As above, so below".

x
) Plato and the other Companions of Socrates by Georg Grote. p. 418. vol. III.

Further see about this the Secret Doctrine by H. P. Blavatsky.



74

That man is a close copy of the Cosmos as it is at the moment
when man is born, does not appear only from the shape the body
takes and the qualities that typify the character, but also from the

possession of special characteristics of the soul, such as psychism. We
find that those natures that are strongly psychic and magnetic are born
at a moment when the magnetic intensity of the earth is strongest i.e.

at midnight. The Sun is then in the horoscope near the lowest point
of the Meridian (Nadir). We see that the ]), , and f? also, when they
are at this point at birth, bring out psychism. The Sun and the Moon,
however, being the more powerful.

It makes the native very negative and therefore receptive to all

changes in the magnetic conditions of the environment. The reverse
holds also good, viz. many planets in the M. C. makes man very positive.
Mars especially does this its colour is red and it strengthens the
red colour of the M. C.

Another proof might be taken from the experiments which Carl von
Reichenbach l

) took with sensitive people, during a great number of

years and by which he discovered that both earth as well as man
show the same colours in the aura. This aura appeared most distinct

with man when he lay in a horizontal posture with his head northward.
Then the aura round his head is blue, and at his feet dark red, and
in between transitions through greyish-blue at the right side to yellowish-
green at the left side. The heavens also show these colours, viz. the

magnetic blue in the Nadir (North), and the electric red in the Zenith

(South), grey on the eastern, and yellow on the western horizon.
The representation of the Sun and the planets in one, seems less

absurd to us when we understand that we can in no way rely on our
limited material senses and that our representation of time and space
is also false.

As it is, we cannot but connect our representations with conceptions
of time and space. It is so simple to say "space is infinite" i.e. nothing
can be added to it or subtracted from it but by stating this we
should at the same time conclude that it does not exist, and the same
holds true for time. Time and space are conceptions arising from the

faulty imaginative faculty of the human spirit i.e. limitations in our

power of observation. In reality neither of them exist.

We may perhaps approach this conception if we compare our obser-
vation of nature through the window of a railway-compartment of a

moving train to our ordinary observation. In the first case we see

telegraph posts, and trees etc. rush past our view and we see them
one by one, but getting out of the train we see the whole and at rest.

The latter would correspond to observation without the limiting factors
of space and time, whereas observation from the railway compartment
window corresponds to the condition of our physical perceptive faculty.

See Carl von Reichenbach: The Od.



75

The Aspects.

By long observation it is known that the planets and cusps of the
houses in certain degrees of angular distances exercise their strongest
influence. The earth with all that is on it, is constantly subjected to
these influences. The strongest action occurs under the following degrees :

Sign Aspect Degrees Influence

c/ Conjunction Variable, dependent on the nature
of the planets.

Opposition 180 Inharmonious
Square or quadrate 90
Semi-square 45
Sesquiquadrate 135

A Trine 120 Harmonious
* Sextile 60
Y. Semi-sextile 30
A" Quincunx 150 Inharmonious
P Parallel Variable.
The tf, 8, D, A are very strong in their action, the *, Z, Q weaker,

the v and A" very weak.
Many astrologers accept also

the Quintile = 72 harmonious.
the Bi-Quintile = 144

These very weak influences, however, are usually neglected.

With aspect is thus meant the distance between two planets, expres-
sed in degrees. If two planets are placed, each in about the same degree
in a different Sign of the same trigon (see p. 34), they form a trine

(A) aspect (= 120 distance).

For instance, planets in the fiery trigon V, e.g. d 12 V = A Q
14 & = A 2j. 9 J or in the airy trigon n, =0=. $ 2 n = A f?

6 =0= = A # 3 s:.

In the same way planets placed in a different zodiacal sign, be-

longing to the same trigon in about the same degree in the watery
trigon (23, til, x) or in the earthy trigon (V, np, rff) form a trine (A)
aspect, as they are at about 120 distance from each other.

When two planets are posited in two different signs of the same
trigon, the difference in degrees being 15, they form a 135 (120 +
15) = Q aspect e.g. 3 ft 18 ^ or 2 SB Q 17 m..

Planets in about the same degree in different signs of the three
crosses (see p. 34) form a square aspect (D), i.e. 90 distance; or an
opposition aspect () when the planets are placed opposite, at half a
circle's distance. The cardinal cross is formed by the signs V, SB, =o=, J?,



76

the fixed cross by V, Q.. "1. ~, and the mutable cross bij n, w, ,?, 3C-

When a planet is in one of the last degrees of a zodiacal sign, it

can form an aspect to a planet in one of the first degrees of another
trigon so e.g. } 2 X is about 120 from Q 29 ,?; the distance is 123.

1

d 2 V forms a D aspect to 2J. 29 ^.
An aspect need not be full (complete) to come into operation; the

action of the planets on each other can be observed, though there is

a difference of some degrees. The extent of the sphere of influence
varies for each planet, experience having taught that a special limit

l
(orb) ) has to be accepted for each planet. These limits (orbs of the

planetary aspects) will be mentioned in one of the following chapters.
(See p. 83).

It is thus not difficult to compute in a horoscope when planets will be in

conjunction (tf) or when at about 30, 45 or 60 distance from each
other and so take down the d v., Z or * etc. aspects in the scheme of

aspects, (see chapter Judging the Horoscope, birth-scheme p. 145.)

When we regard these aspects, or angles closer, we find that they
are all angles of regular polygons described in a circle. The angle is

formed either by the sides at the circumference or by the radii drawn
from the centre to the angles. So is the angle of 30 characteristic of
the regular dodecagon, 45 of the reg. octagon 60 of the

; reg. triangle,
90 of the reg. quadrangle; 120 of the reg. hexagon, 135 of the reg.
decagon, and the 8 and & correspond to the straight line.

It is universally known that nature works along mathematical lines ;

we see this a. o. in the ratio of forms of crystal; we see it in the ratio
of the golden cut (1 to 1-62) which recurs everywhere in the four

kingdoms of the Cosmos as well as in the distances of the celestial
bodies which constitute the Cosmos (more about this later).
We can conceive how in a glass of water when freezing, the invi-

sible, ethereal dynamic rays are present, along which we see the ice-

crystals form.
Further this can be traced in the forms of crystal of most metals e.g.

in which all the above-mentioned angles are to be found.
This may throw some light on the way in which the planets influence

us. If we represent the Sun and the planets as one whole body (of
course no 3-dimensional physical body is meant) the component parts
of which are harmoniously arranged in the real (etheric) body of the
Sun and we imagine that in this enormous body of the Cosmos the
lines of splitting which we find in crystals are present, we begin to

!) With orb is meant the limit of an aspect, within which the action of a planet
is observable.

Thus cf 13 V and 1 13 V are a rf rf and t, but also rf 13 V and y
6 V form a cf rf and t

; Q 9 .n. and J) 9 yz is a A Q but also
]), Q 5 ^*

and 11
3) ~z form a A Q "]) The Q and

^) are within the orb of a A aspect.



77

understand how these must be formed after the great model of the
Cosmos and how the Cosmos must influence us as well, along these lines.

Thus the crystal-forms might put us on the track of possible new
aspects.

Outlines of the Aspects in Relation to the Evolution of Man.

Of the different standpoints from which we may regard the aspects
to search into their meaning, the point of view of Karma and Character
is to us surely the most interesting, because it is especially the aspects
between the planets that show us the consequences of our actions in
former lives.



78

We divide the aspects into harmonious and inharmonious ones and
we know already that they are called thus after the nature of the action

they produce. We saw that this cosmic influence cannot be inharmon-
ious in reality, but that we feel them such by our own disharmony,
which expresses itself in illness of our body, or disturbances in our
consciousness, either in our thinking or in our emotions.

Harmony and disharmony are, just like good and bad, only the

opposite poles of the same quality, the evil comprises the abuse of
the good and when we have been excessively guilty of transgressing
in former incarnations, we find it denoted in this incarnation in our
birth-horoscope as an inharmonious aspect.

If we in short characterise the planets as follows:

O = the Higher Self (Ego) 1? = Egoism,
= Intellect T&. = Higher Intellect

$ = Love ^ = Higher Love, and
cf = Passion 3) = the transmitter, the temporary self.

2(. = Devotion (personality),
it will not be hard to arrive directly at a rough conclusion concerning
the aspects of the various planets.

A n aspect between O and ft (O n
ft) is expressed e.g. in the

character as selfishness and in all our experiences in life, as limitation
and hindrance (adversity); so we may rightly suppose that we having
cultivated that selfishness in former lives e.g. by being too little

ready to help others have put the stone that hinders our progress
(limitation) in our way ourselves. It indicates a conflict between our

higher self and the lower tendencies, in our past and the latter proved
to be still too strong for submitting willingly. In this life we shall often
knock against that stone till we have learnt our lesson.

A A aspect between O and 1? (O A
ft) shows us the good side, the

opposite pole of limitation. This aspect is expressed in the character as

frugality, simplicity, earnestness, power of will, concentration and depth
of thought, qualities cultivated in former lives, by doing our duty
with punctuality under any circumstances.

Thus a D and an 8 aspect between cf and $ will denote a conflict
between passion (cf) and love ($), and the stone which we on account
of this, find in our way, keeps causing new conflicts which are to lead
us to ultimate victory over that which is lower.

These examples will suffice for a general illustration.

The inharmonious aspect indicates an abuse of the good, in former
lives, it indicates a resistance we have to overcome, a stumbling block.

The harmonious aspects, on the other hand, indicate a right use of
the good and indicates help, and sources of help, we have created for

ourselves in former lives and from which we can now profit (A trine,
* sextile aspect).



79

We have laid out our road of live ourselves and we have to blame
ourselves that this road often has steep slopes and sharp rocky points,
but we also owe it to ourselves that the road is not void of agreeable
shady restingplaces and splendid vistas which renew our strength as we
go on.
We now understand why Karma signifies "action" and why in our

birth-horoscope we have to see the road which we must walk during
this incarnation.

Thus does astrology teach us as clear as day that our character
makes our destiny, but we must take the word character in a somewhat
different meaning from the one it it usually used in, we should
consider it a temporary dress in which the Ego is wrapped for this

earthly life. Astrologers are sometimes inclined to turn up their noses
at one whose horoscope has many inharmonious aspects. It is true
this often is a proof of a less elevated character, but it may also be
a proof of great strength of the Ego which had at its incarnation the

courage to take up a cross that would be too heavy for many people.
It did so with a view to progress quicker, by "working out Karma"
as much as possible in this life.

That such a one has a hard life and will have to struggle with all

kinds of adversities need scarcely be mentioned; he has the strength
for it and will conquer in the end, or succumb under it, but never will
his adversities and hard experiences seduce him to do a mean deed
and this it is that distinguishes him from the low type with a very
inharmonious horoscope, who has not yet taken himself in hand.

"There is no death what seems to us transition,
This life of mortal breath,
Is but a suburb of the Life Elysian,
Whose portal we call Death."

LONGFELLOW.



80

Outlines of the Aspects.

Reckoned from o> both upwards and downwards.

We might now treat the aspects separately in their development.

The Conjunction (tf) means the beginning of a new cycle; the old one
is finished, it has brought us its experiences and we begin a new; so it is a
commencing. Whether this commencing will be harmonious or inharmonious
depends on the nature of the planets which form this aspect. (This will be
gone into more fully in the Chap. The Aspect-Influence of the Planets). We may
see in it a tendency of character which is going to be formed, but in many
cases a tendency of character that had already quite matured on a higher

1"

plane and only awaited an impulse to spring forth on the physical plane.

The Semi-sextile (30 v.) represents the tendency of character which has
developed, but which has not yet become a characteristic because it is not
yet hardened in the purifying fire of trial. This aspect is expressed more as

!) Aarde = Earth, Conjunctie = Conjunction, Oppositie = Opposition, Drie-
hoekig = Trine, Vierkant = Square, Sextiel = Sextile, Half-vierkant= Semi-square.



81

contemplation than as action. Only with very progressive natures it can trans-

pose itself already in harmonious action, because here the purifying fire of
the next aspect has already worked.

The Semi-square aspect (45 z) represents the first difficulties on the road
and it will depend on the overcoming or no of those difficulties, which work
more on the mental and astral planes than on the physical, so on our
thinking and feeling , whether the tendency of character will become a
characteristic or no. This aspect brings us opportunities which, however, end
in disappointments.

The Sextile aspect (60 *). Here the tendency has become a harmonious
characteristic and this becomes a strong source of help in life. This aspect
brings us opportunities for our further growth and helps us onward. But in
order to become an inseparable part of ourselves, it must be subjected to :

The Square aspect (90 n). Here a purifying takes place, not principally
on the mental and the astral planes, but especially on the physical plane,
and as the resistance is greatest here, this aspect promises a hard struggle,
resistance in its strongest form. All we try to accomplish is prone to fail,

because we have to overcome that resistance everywhere. That which is high-
est in us, should grow and our selfishness should decrease, die out. The n
aspect is the aspect of death and the new life coming out of it.

Trine aspect (120 A). The characteristic comes forth from the battle vic-
torious and has now become a fixed and inseparable possession of the Ego
unalienable and so a strong support on his way onward harmony.
Here the fruit of a victory gained with difficulty, are gathered.

The Sesqai-quadrate aspect (135 Q) we may regard as a second purifying
on the astral plane, after the characteristic has stood the test of the physical
plane and now equipped with experience, it can go onward with more cer-

tainty and arrive at a marriage in the opposition.

In the Quincunx-aspect (150 "A) the same is repeated on the mental
plane and in

The Opposition (180 8) it must appear whether the obtained quality by a
mutual understanding, a combination with another, can arrive at a harmonious
union and thus rise up high, or whether the result will be an inharmonious
confusion.

The Aspect-Influence of the Planets.

Very harmonious is the tf and P. between the benefics % and $.
Harmonious is the <j and P. of % and $ to Q, J), or .

Partly harmonious and partly inharmonious are the <3 and P. of 2J.

and 1

$ to d , ft, or $:. The same aspect with t is wholly dependent
in its expression on the moral standpoint of the native.

6



82

Inharmonious are the tf and P. of d, T? and ] to O 3). and . Of
$ the same may be said as of *.

The d and P. of d* to T? is inharmonious.
The cT and P. of I? to $: is harmonious.
<S causes always heat, impulse, passion, acute inflammation, and

works quickly.
T? causes always cold, limitation, contraction, egoism, seclusion and

works slowly.
:$: combines the qualities of these two and works very sudden, but

is less malicious in its effect.
1

In good aspects d gives besides impulsiveness courage and
strength; while ft, besides slowness gives caution, perseverance
and punctuality.

$: gives always inventiveness and originality.
The inharmonious aspects of the malefics become less unfavourable

if one or both is posited in its (their) own house or sign.
Viewed from an esoteric standpoint, the parallel is of quite another

influence than the d, but the observable effect is about the same
only weaker. The P. expresses more a tendency than a characteristic.

With the 8 the judgment depends especially on which of the planets
is the stronger; e.g. when with an 8 d to O> Mars by position in

house and sign, is stronger than the Sun, the impulsiveness, rudeness,
over-activity, pride and restlessness which this opposition brings about
will be controlled with greater difficulty than when the Q is the

stronger. (See Chap. Planets in Strong or in Weak Positions p. 134).
With d 8 $ e.g. disharmony exists and a fight will ensue between

1

the higher ($) and the lower emotions (d ) or passions and unless $ is

more strongly placed than d", there is little chance that the lower nature
will be conquered.

If the aspect is waxing the difficulty will be greater than in the

opposite case when it is waning. Q 9 ~ and 2J. 15 == a waxing A
aspect, the Sun moves quicker than 2J. and will overtake Q after
some time and make the A "full".

9 15 ^ and $ 18 IV DC is a waxing * aspect; for though $, the

quicker planet, has already passed the aspect, after some time the aspect
becomes full again by $'s retrograde movement.

Of course much depends on the degree of power of will (taken in
the highest sense) that the Ego has developed to which degree an
inharmonious aspect will be expressed.

An aspect from fixed signs offers far greater difficulties than from
cardinal or mutable signs. A Q aspect from fixed signs e.g. might be
the expression of a fault hardly possible to be conquered in one incar-
nation. A D aspect from mutable signs seems to denote more a bad
habit which can be broken.

The same may be said of the Z and aspects, only the expression
is much weaker.



83

The inharmonious aspects indicate a part of the Karma that must
be worked out; the positions of the houses and the signs indicate the
other part.

The harmonious aspects as the A, * and the good P. and d denote
good qualities gained in former lives; they help us through life.

A good aspect between e.g. O and J) or of the O resp. 3) and
2|. or $, or between 2|. and $ may improve an otherwise very badly
afflicted horoscope, provided with many bad aspects etc. considerably.

The aspects of the slow planets $: and < must be regarded from
a broader point of view; they denote less personal qualities than
influences that work for some years and affect the whole world.

The aspects O D and to the four angles of the horoscope and
of any planets in the ascendant and in M. C. give the key-note of the
character.

The strength of the aspect plays, of course, a great part. By expe-
rience one has got to know the bounds within which an aspect exercises
its action; e.g. a D need not be exactly 90 to exercise an action as
such and this holds true for the other aspects as well.

As the orbs l
) of the planets is taken :

The orb for a P. =1
8 and tf = 12 for O to D
8 and tf = 10 for Q or 3) to the planets
A and D = 8

n n n n * 7'
Z and = 4
V 9

. x. ^
The aspects that fall exactly within the outer bounds of the orb

are very weak, but the action of them may be strengthened by another

planet, e.g. O 12 25 and I? 2 % form a very weak opposition, but if

we have at the same time J) in 6 =QI the 8 O and b becomes much
strengthened by the n aspect which the moon forms with the Sun and
with Saturn.

Mundane 2
Aspects ).

So far we have only occupied ourselves with what are known as
zodiacal aspects.

There is, however, another group of aspects viz. the mundane.

!) By orb is meant the limit of an aspect, within which the action of a planet
is observable.

2
) For the beginner it is wiser to leave the mundane aspects out of account,

they are of secundary influence.



84

For these aspects the positions of the planets in the bowses they occupy,
are considered, and not the distance as reckoned by number of degrees
of the Zodiac. In every horoscope is e.g. the 1st with the 4th house,
the 3rd with the 6th etc. in square mundane aspect; no matter how
many degrees they are distant. The 1st house is in sextile aspect with
the 3rd, and in trine aspect with the 5th etc. Planets which are in the
1st and in the 4th house are called in square aspect with each other.
Planets in the houses 2 and 4 are in mundane sextile aspect etc.

that is at least, if their positions are at proportional distances from the

cusps e.g.
Let us take the planet 23'42 25 in the ascendant (horoscope p. 27).

It is about 4 under the cusp of the ascendant. If now e.g. at a pro-
portional distance under the cusp of the llth house (V 27) the planet
$ were, ^ and would be in mundane sextile, while at the same
time they are in square zodiacal aspect by the falling away of tf.

By proportional distance is meant the following: The 1st house in

our example horoscope is only 15 (from 19 45' 25 5 |), but the
llth house 3 + 30 -h 12 = 45 (from 27 T 12 n). If therefore
the distance from ^ to cusp 1 is 4, the distance from $ from cusp 11

(under it) must be 3 X 4 = 12 in order to be at a proportional
distance and thus exactly in mundane sextile with t. Here also, orbs
are permitted.

So it may happen that at the same time there is a favourable
mundane and an unfavourable zodiacal aspect, or the reverse, between
2 planets and in that case they are considered to neutralise each other.

(More on this later) Likewise we have mundane trine aspect,
mundane opposition, mundane square, mundane sesquiquadrate, mundane
semi-quadrate, mundane semi-sextile aspects.

A mundane Parallel is when 2 planets are at proportional equal
distances from the Meridian. $ 26 5' V on 1 distance above the cusp
of the llth house would be in mundane P. with a planet a little less
than 1 beyond the cusp of the Gth house.

The difficulty with the mundane houses is the exact moment of birth
and therefore the knowing precisely of the various cusps. If one is not

absolutely sure of this, it is wiser to leave the mundane aspects out
of account. Mundane aspects formed with the progressive planets, may
in some cases by the action they exercise, put us on the track of the
exact time of birth.

A mundane v. is 1 house apart.
* 2 houses
A 4

'

*f
n 3

- 41
P. is equal distances to the right and to the left of

M. C. or I. C.



85

Polarity.

The fiery and the airy signs V, n, Q,, =a=, ,?, s: (positive and mas-
culine) are also called electric signs.

The earthy and the watery signs fc', SB, ftp, ni, %, 30 (negative and
feminine) are also called magnetic signs.

1

In the same way we may divide the planets: O> 2t- d , 3* electric,

r), ?, 3), magnetic. 9 as the gatherer of the influences of all planets
falls under both groups.

According as the rising sign, Q and ]) are in electric or magnetic
signs, the natures may be distinguished into electric, magnetic and
electro-magn. natures.

1. The electric or masculine natures have for the greater part electric

planets in electric signs.
2. The magnetic or feminine natures have principally magnetic

planets in magnetic signs.
3. The electro-magnetic natures have electric planets in magnetic

signs or the reverse.
1 and 2 are harmonious, 3 is inharmonious, viz. this character now

attracts, now repels changing continually. The same is the case when e.g.
the rising sign is magnetic and many electric planets, or Sun and Moon,
or either Sun or Moon, are placed in electric signs.

It always gives a strong moral basis, when the signs of the Zodiac
and the planets agree according to their nature.

The moral basis is weak when e.g. O and I) are badly aspected
and they receive not any good aspect.

When the planets agree in nature with the signs, and O and 3) are
free of bad aspects, one may be sure of a high moral standpoint.

Electric natures radiate strength, like the Sun, they give of their

abundance, they rule.

Magnetic natures absorb strength, receive, they are easily ruled.

The Astrological Houses.

We have seen that the 360 of the zodiacal circle are divided into
the 12 divisions of the various signs of the Zodiac, each of 30 and that
each of those divisions exercises its special characteristic influence.

Besides this zodiacal, there is the mundane division of the horoscope
in 12 houses.

The 12 Houses are formed by the 12 radii drawn from the birthplace
to the horizon up there and under that at 30 distance, as the eye
observes this. The Houses of the horoscope form the immediate sur-

roundings, the material circumstances of the native, in the midst of



86

which the Ego has chosen his special centre in order to learn from
experience environment.

This shows that the astrological computation ought not to be helio-
centric but ego-centric, that is to say, the place of birth is the starting-

point. Many very learned astronomers refuse to conceive this, they
believe in their conceit that they live on the Sun, not knowing how ego-
centric they are bound to their immediate surroundings!

The 1st house is the part which is under the rising degree and so
under the eastern horizon (ascendant) the 12th house adjoins it and
is exactly above the eastern horizon. The other 10 houses are in between
successively, so that the cusp of the 4th house is the Nadir, the cusp
of the 7th the Descendant and the cusp of the 10th the Zenith or M. C.
These 4 houses are called the angles of the horoscope.

The sign and the degree on the cusps of the houses indicate their

size, which, according as one removes from the equator, differ more.
In high latitudes, i.e. near the North- or South-pole, sometimes more
than half the vault of heaven may be occupied by one zodiacal sign;
and this is in this special case shared by at least three houses, whereas
in the adjoining part of the heavens the signs appear closely crowded
together and there e.g. three signs may occur in one house. At the
latitude of England, for instance, two signs at most can occupy one
house, in other words in England not more than one sign can drop out
of any one house.

Everything in nature repeats itself with regular intervals. Just as

e.g. in the growth of the human embryo we can follow the whole
development of man in all his periods during the whole evolution of

the earth, from his l
first origin up to his present state, ) so does the

daily rotation of the Earth upon its axis and the passing of the Meridian

by the various houses, give us a symbolic image of man's life during
one incarnation. Let us take e.g. the 4 angles of the horoscope.

The 1st house or ascendant represents the moment when man out of the

spiritual world descends into matter and then becomes subjected to all that
is related to matter. That is why the first house in the horoscope represents
the personal character and the physical body. We see that planets placed in

this house, have an extremely strong influence on the physical life This house
corresponds to the moment of sunrise.

The 10th house symbolises the time when man takes part in the full life.

The material as well as that which is spiritual and emotional play the principal
v

part in turn. Life expresses itself in its full force, the Zenith is reached and
therefore does the 10th house or M. C. represent in the horoscope power, glory,
honour, business success, promotion etc. and therefore do the planets which
occupy this house have the greatest influence on all these matters. This house
corresponds to the moment when the Sun reaches the meridian altitude.

The 7th house symbolises mature age, when the passions and desires

See the Chapter Embryology and its bearing on Astrology.



87

become conquered and the higher man begins to rule the lower inclinations.
He begins to understand that he is not there as a separate being, apart from
all other lives, but begins to feel one with the one Life that animates all.

That is why in the horoscope the 7th house denotes the house of union, of

marriage, of partnership etc. It is the point of sunset.

The 4th house symbolises old age, the time when the native has passed
the period of earthy experiences and begins to prepare for his life in the next
(astral) world.

So this house is the one that denotes the relations and circumstances at
old age and further it has relation to permanent possessions.

Permanent possessions mean in this case, as will be understood, the
mundane or worldly (material) side of experiences, gained throughout
the earthy life, which are transmuted into permanent talents and
characteristics and so become "permanent possessions" of the Ego.
This is the point of the lowest position of the Sun, the Nadir.

Thus each house has its symbolic meaning. We see already by
the foregoing that the houses have to do directly with the material
side of life and taken as a whole we may say that they represent the

body, with the 1st house as the specific expression of it.

According as the body has more purified tendencies, the influence
of the planets can express through the houses on higher planes than
the physical as well, and this is especially the case in the houses 4,

6, 8 and 12 which are called occult houses.
So the body is expressed in a twofold way in the horoscope,

indirectly by the zodiacal signs and directly by the houses and we
find ever a working together of the two. So does the sign Aries cor-

respond to the 1st house, Taurus to the 2nd, Gemini to the 3rd etc.;
in other words the first house governs the head, the second the throat
and neck, the third lungs, shoulders and arms the twelfth house
the feet. This secondary action also extends to all that comes under
the respective houses, e.g. an aspect in V will exercise a secondary
action on our financial circumstances (2nd house) an aspect in tip

(nutrition) will have a by-action on our health (6th house) etc. The
primary influence of the signs, however, remains the principal by far.

The Twelve Houses as different Fields of Activity.

We have seen already that there is a close connection between
these 12 parts in which the horoscope is divided and the 12 Zodiacal

signs. Each house represents a more definite field of activity by which
the Ego tries to gain his experiences and this field of activity is most
closely connected with the sign that is represented by the house. The
chief difference between them is, that the houses denote experiences



88

on the physical plane and the signs denote the extent of our feelings
and emotions, including the intellect.

So we may regard the houses as representing our hndy and thfi sipms
psthp ^ymhols_of^the soul. Both serve as instruments for the spirit, the
Individuality, the Ego, TcTexpress itself. This Ego is symbolised in the
horoscope by the planets as the representatives and co-operators of
the Sun, the centre from which all consciousness is bern.

Taken in this way we must regard the first house as the lowest
plane by which the first zodiacal sign Aries expresses itself, the second
house, in the same way corresponds to Taurus, the third to Gemini, the
fifth to Leo, the eighth to Scorpio etc.

The expression of a planet, either through a sign, or through a house,
differs only as to the plane on which the action is felt; we might
compare it to an emotion expressed in form.

The higher an individuality rises in evolution, the more he rises
above the form, the more independent of it he grows ; from this
it follows that a highly developed Ego will observe the expression of
a planet through a house otherwise than a low developed Ego, and now
we can imagine that there is a stage on which a highly developed Ego
can observe the action of a planet through a house in the same way
as a lower developed Ego feels it by expression through the sign corres-

ponding to that house, so it is a difference in consciousness. The O m the
5th house with the highly developed individual will express itself in
that case the same as the O in $- with the lower developed Ego,
and $ in the 2nd house with the former will be as $ in V with the latter,

e.g. O in 5th house with a developed ego means that the native will
be faithfull (&) from inward impulses (O).
O in 5 with a less developed ego means that he is fond of

pleasure (5th h.).

$ in 2 with a developed ego means a.o. that he is peaceable (X)-
$ in 2 with a less developed ego means a.o. that he is fond of his

possessions (2nd h.), his money.
This must always be borne in mind in judging the place of the

planets in the houses.

The houses in the first place bear on our material existence and on
the conditions connected with it, on the states in which the Ego
will be placed during his earthly course, that is, his path of life

and the planets posited in them, plus the aspects they receive, denote
the obstacles and the helps it will meet with.

First the houses tell us the vehicle (I) (the body) the Ego has chosen
for this pilgrimage and the tendencies of character and characteristics (I)
which it brings with it, as the result of former descents into matter ;

they further tell us regarding his native country, his teachers and parents
(IV), of his contemporaries, his brothers and sisters (III), of the
Intellectual faculties he is endowed with (III), of the attempts he



89

makes to enlarge his horizon oi consciousness and to widen it by journeys
in his own country and in neighbouring countries (III), or with the same
purpose to foreign continents (IX) where he tries to find what he here
vainly looks for. The houses tell him of his work, his ideals and aspi-
rations, of his striving after glory and fame (X), either by himself or
combined with others (VII), they tell him of the friends of his youth
(XI), of his companion for life (VII) who joins his fate, of his chil-

dren (V), of his friends (XI), but also of those who oppose him in his

attempts to get on in life and who do anything to put obstacles in
his way (XII).

At last after he has enjoyed the weal and woe of life to a high
degree and regarded it from all sides as it were, he silently muses
and asks of himself; "is this all that life has to offer me after all,

is there nothing higher, is this the end? Is it not ridiculous when you
come to think of it, that I should have drudged so for all that, now
that I have attained it, has left me as unsatisfied as before." And he
begins to meditate on the problems of life and death (VIII) in the latter

part of his life (IV). He begins to seek and to dig till he finds a
solution that satisfies him.

He who has I? badly placed in IV, searches after the solution to
these problems and finding none, him solitude, loneliness and dejec-
tion await in his old age!

For an easy survey we might divide the houses in four groups of

three, viz.

A. The houses I, V, IX which are related to the native himself,
viz. I: represents the body (T);

V: the Ego (Q.) that struggles to raise the soul to its level;
IX: the influence hence exercised on the lower consciousness

and which widens it (,). Under this house we will find

inspiration higher thinking.

B. The houses II, VI, X which relate to all that can be of use to
him on his path of life,

viz. II: (V) possessions, rest after work, love;
VI: his servants, nutrition, health (tip);
X: his position, fame and honour

C. The houses III, VII, XI which indicate the ties with which he is

bound, such as relatives and friends,
viz. Ill: brothers and sisters and other relations (II);

VII: his partner in life, partner in business, community (=o=);
XI: his friends (=:).

D. The houses IV, VIII, XII which relate to the end of all,
v

viz. IV : the end of his physical journey, old age (<?o) ;

VIII: the end of his physical vehicle, death (ni);



90

XII: the end, the dying out of his earthly desires and wishes,
purification (DC).

After this general treatise by which one can see the relation between
the various divisions of the heavens we will look closer into the

meaning of the houses separately.

Meaning of the 12 Houses.

Now we will as fully as possible interpret what each house can
represent.

1st house (V) denotes the outward appearance and the character in

general. Of the body it denotes the head, the brain and the general state of
health. In general it shows the personality and the struggle for life, and also
the native's actions.

2nd house (tf) indicates the financial circumstances, unfixed possessions,
peace and liberty. It influences our feelings and emotions.

3rd, house (n). Brothers, sisters, relatives, neighbours, the education, short

journeys, study, manuscripts, letters, ability. It has a strong relation to the
intellect and the nervous system.

4th house (25). The house and home life, inherited tendencies, our envi-
ronment during the latter part of our life. Fixed possessions. It also indicates
the father and our relation to him. Occult house, bearing on physical life and
death.

5th house (Q Is
). related to pleasures, love-affairs, entertainments, specu-

lations, games, children. It is opposed to the llth house and as it were the
fulfilment of it (hopes and wishes).

6th house (W). The house of sickness; it has also bearing on servants,
inferiors, service, dress, hygiene, care for the body in general. An important
house for those who have to do with nursing and treatment of the sick.

7th house (=0=) is related to marriage, partnership, society, social life in

general. Moreover, public opponents, prosecutions. It represents in a sense
the individuality, as opposed to the 1st house, that of personality.!

8th house (rrt) has to do with death and all that is related to it, such as
inheritances, legacies, wills. The sign on the cusp and the aspects of the planets
placed in VIII or of the ruler of VIII often indicate the nature of the death
of the physical body. Occult house.

9th house (,?). Philosophy, religion, teaching, education and everything
connected to that. Also long journeys in foreign countries. It bears on the
abstract way of thinking as opposed to the 3rd, the house of concrete thinking.
Dreams and visions come also under this house.



91

10th house (%} is related to honour, worldly power, fame, promotion,
calling or position and also indicates the moral standpoint of the native. This
house is supposed to represent the native's mother, as the fourth represents
the father. Many astrologers, however, reverse this order and take the fourth
for the mother and the tenth for the father, considering, that the father has
much to do with influencing the choice of profession or calling. But it should
be noted that with parents the mother frequently takes the lead.

llth house (ss.). Friends, hopes and wishes. The nature of friends and
acquaintances is expressed by the sign on the cusp and by any planet posited
in the house. It denotes the native's attitude towards humanity, his harmony
or disharmony with his fellows.

12th house (DC). The house of trial, anxiety, care, and limitation. It is

related to prisons, convents, hospitals, lunatic asylums, to anything that
denotes seclusion and limitation. He must learn here, to regard himself not
as a separate being, but as a part of the Whole, inseparable from it and ever
in contact with it. Occult house.

Here follows briefly the meaning of the houses in which is shown
the relation of the zodiacal signs to the parts of the body.

1st house V the head = temperament, outward appearance of the native.

2nd house V throat = his going into material life, his possessions, finan-
cial circumstances.

3rd house n lungs = his short journeys, his relations, specially brothers,
sisters, cousins, his correspondence, study.

4th house 23 stomach = his home, inheritance from parents, his father,
his resting place and circumstances at the close of life.

5th house Q, heart = his spirit of enterprise, his passion, love-affairs,
children, speculations, initiative, pleasures.

6th house HP bowels = his health, nutrition, inferiors, enforced labour, his
relation to servants.

7th house =0= kidneys = marriage, unions and separations, husband or
wife, partners, opponents and the public.

8th house rn. generative system = sex inclinations, school of life, inheri-

tance, legacies, death.

9th house ,? thighs = his longer journeys, widening of view, his outlook
on life, philosophy.

10th house ~% knees = his position or station, his name, honour, calling,
conduct, public appearance.

llth house zz lower =
leg his seeking after support from friends, his hopes

and wishes.

12th house X =
feet the unseen difficulties, secret enemies, prosecutions,

hospitals, imprisonment, his going down as regards the world.



92

From the foregoing it follows that the native's relation to his uncles
and aunts (they are the brothers and sisters of his father) is indicated

by the 6th house; the 6th house being the third (brothers) from the
4th (father). The possessions of the partner are indicated by the 2nd house
(possessions) from the 7th - -

(partner), that is the 8th house the
; partner's

brothers by the 9th house or the 3rd (brothers) from the 7th (partner).
In this way we might arrive at many other conclusions. *

The houses are divided into:
Cardinal (angular) houses 1, 4, 7 and 10.

Succeedent 2, 5, 8 and 11.

Cadent 3, 6, 9 and 12.

In the angular houses the action of the planets is strongest.
In the cadent houses the action is weakest.
The succeedent houses' action is in between.
The houses have their orbs, just like the planets. The orb for a

cusp with a short rising sign (JJT, ~, OC, V, K n) for all countries
with Northern Latitude is 5 and for a cusp bearing a slowly rising
sign (25, |, up, ==, n\, ^) it is 8 . For countries with Southern Latitude
it is the other way about, viz. the quickly rising signs there are slowly
rising signs here, and the reverse.

Accordingly, a planet e.g. in the 5th house 5 or 8 or less (dependent
on the sign) from the cusp, is reckoned to be in the 6th house, as to its

action. For the Ascendant 12 at least may be taken, so a planet which
is e.g. 10 above the rising degree in the 12th house, influences the
Ascendant and therefore body and temperament.

The nearer the cusp, the stronger the action which the planet
exercises in the particular house.

The planets on or near the cusp of an angular house exercise the

greatest influence during the whole life.

Calculation of the Horoscope.

At the end of this book there is given a Table of Houses for the
latitude of London (51 32'), which can also be used for the northern states
of America. A table for New-York (40 43' N.) may also be used for

San-Francisco, Denver etc. For Southern Canada take the tables for

Liverpool or Glasgow (resp. 53 25' and 55 53' N. Lat.) and for e.g.
Los Angelos and San Diego the table for 37 N. Lat. (see Raphael's
Tables of Houses J

). For the Northern part of England and for Scotland

(53 25' N.) the table of houses for Liverpool is to be used it will
;

be found in the ephemeris for any year.

!) Published by W. Foulsham & Co. London, price 1 Sh.



93

In the x
ephemeris ) the planetary positions are given for Greenwich

at noon.
The tables of houses, however, are made for local time, because

every degree of each zodiacal sign rises for all places of equal latitude

throughout the earth at the same local time, for at every place at noon
local time the Sun is in the meridian of that place.

If e.g. in London on Apr. 1st. at 2 p. m. the 24th degree of ^ is

rising, at all places with the same latitude as London the 24th degree
of Q, is rising on that day at the same local time of 2 p. m.

For finding the houses we have therefore nothing to do with Green-
wich, but only with the local time.

As an example we will calculate a horoscope for May 16th 1913
at 7.50 a. m. at the Hague, local time (see diagram on p. 27).

Before drawing up a horoscope one should be sure whether the
time of birth is indicated according to the standard time (used in time
tables of railway companies) or according to local time 2

).

For Middle-Europa the standard time of one hour later than Green-
wich is taken and for Eastern-Europe of two hours later. In Berlin the
clock denotes 40 minutes later than at Amsterdam (difference Amsterdam
with Greenwich = 20').

It goes without saying that this standard time should be reduced to
local time and this is easily to be done, viz. for every degree east of
Greenwich it is 4 minutes later. So by multiplying the number of

degrees by 4 and adding the product to Greenwich time, (if the place lies

east) we obtain the local time. If the place lies west of Greenwich
the product should be subtracted. Thus we find the difference between
standard time and local time and with that we correct the time of birth,
when it is given according to standard time.

In England and Scotland the standard time of Greenwich is taken,
in Ireland it is 25 minutes 21 seconds earlier. We can easily calculate
for which place the standard time of a region is accepted, the difference
with Greenwich being, as we mentioned above, four minutes for every
degree difference of longitude.

To draw up the horoscope for somewhere east of that place, the
local time will be later than the official standard time and as many
times 4 minutes as the number of degrees totals. If the place is west,
subtract. Example: Required the local time for a place in the U. S. situated
70 West of Greenwich. The standard time for Eastern America is cal-
culated for the 75th degree West of Greenwich and differs 75X4' =
300 minutes = 5 hrs. with Greenwich. So it is 5 hours earlier in

Eastern America. Our given place is situated 70 West of Greenwich,
i.e. 5 less western, so it is later there than on the 75 5 X 4' = 20 min-

!) Raphael's Ephemeris of the Planets Places for all the years from 1800 to 1917,
each year 1/1 ; published by W. Foulsham & Co., London.

2
) With "local time" we mean, the correct time according to the longitude of

the place.



94

utes. The local time there is 20 minutes later than the official standard
time. This example will suffice for all cases.

The following standard times are accepted,

+ Gr. T. hour + Gr. T. hour
The Netherlands (Amsterdam) 0.20 Western Australia 8.

Middle Europe 1. Eastern 10.
Eastern 2. New-Zealand 11.30
British India 5.30 The Eastcoast ofAmerica Gr.T. 4.

Burma 6.30 Eastern part 5. 1

Hongkong 8. Central 6.-

Japan 9. Rocky Mountains 7. 3

'

South-Africa 2. The West coast of America 8 "'

S

Batavia (loc. time) 7.7 (Canada also)
Philippine Islands 8. Hawai 10.30

The difference between Greenwich time and the local time at the

Hague is about 20 minutes. It is 20 minutes earlier at Greenwich, so
the time we must take according to Gr. T. (Greenwich time) is 7.30 a.m.
This time it is we want in order to calculate the planetary positions.
We find given as sidereal time on May 16th 3h. 34' 22' (see the

sidereal time-table at the end of this book).
This is the S. T. at noon. The time was 7.30 a.m. so that we have

to make a small correction in the S. T. It was the day before 4' less,
as the table shows, which makes a difference of -gV or X 4'= 40*
for 4 hrs. So from the S. T. on May 16th must be subtracted 40*. If

the birth had taken place at 4 p.m., 40' should have been added.
In order to find the correct S. T. at birth there must be subtracted

from the S. T. Greenwich at noon the time of birth before noon, in this

case 12 7.50 = 4 h. 10 m. Had the time of birth been 7.50 p.m. we
should need to add. If the figure given in S. T. is too little to subtract
from, we might for convenience sake add 24 hrs. to it.

We get S.T. May 16th Gr. noon 3h. 34m. 22s.
add 24 h.

27 h. 34m. 22s.
Time of birth before noon 4h. 10m.

subtract
23 h. 24m. 22s.

Correction of the S. T. for 4 h. 10 m. 40 s.

subtract 23 h. 23 m. 42 s.

S.T. at birth = 23 h. 24m.

!) From the 75th degree east up to the coast.

2) 90th 75th degree.
3) . 105th 90th
4) 120th 105th



95

We may also proceed as follows,
S.T. May 15th Or. at noon 3h. 30m. 26s.
Time elapsed since May 15th noon 19 h. 50m.

23 h. 20m. 26s.
Correction of the S. T. *) for 1 9 h. 50 m. add. 3m. 20s.

(because of 4' in 24 hrs.) 23 h. 23 m. 46 s.

S. T. at birth = 23 h. 24 m.

The reason of the correction of the S. T. is because, in the first

case, the S. T. which advances 4 minutes in 24 hrs, is less than at
noon (Gr. May 16th) and in the second case is more than at noon
(Gr. May 15th).

When we look in the Table of Houses under Sidereal Time, we
find the nearest Sidereal Time to that which we want, is 23 h. 23 m.
15 s. and next to it under the heading ascendant: 25 19 45'. In the
same line we find also, under 10 (cusp of the 10th house or M. C.)
X 20 ; under 11 (cusp of the llth house), V 27; under 12, n 12;
under 2, Q. 5 under 3, Q. 24.

;

!) Notice that this correction of the S. T. even for 18 hrs. totals only 3' and can
never be more than 4'. If no very precise calculation is required it may be neglected,
the difference in the rising sign being very slight indeed. Thus the calculation be-
comes simplified. The difference may be reduced to + 2 m. at most, when in drawing
up the houses the S. T. is always taken for the day of birth and not for the preced-
ing, as is also done in calculating the planets.

Examples for calculating the Ascendant, neglecting the two corrections for
S. T. which as we have seen, may be neglected when no extreme accuracy is required.

1. Birth May 2nd 1913. Berlin. 7 p.m. Local Time.
S. T. May 2nd = 2 hrs. 39 m. 10 s.

Time after noon + 7 hrs.

S. T. at birth = 9 hrs. 39 m. 10 s. So Asc. is 8 20' 111.

2. Birth May 20th 1913. The Hague. 7.10 a.m. Greenwich Time.
S. T. May 20th = 3 hrs. 50 m. 8 s.

+ 24 hrs.

27 hrs. 50 m. 8 s.

Time before noon 4 hrs. 50 m.
23 hrs. m. 8 s. (To be added ; it is later hi places

Corr. for local time -f 20 m. east of Gr.).

S.T. at birth = 23 hrs. 20 m. 8 s. So Asc. is 19 10' 05.
3. Birth May 16th 1913. Bristol (2V2 West of London, see map of England),

7.15 p.m. Gr. T.
The correction for local time is 4 minutes for each degree of longitude,

so here 21/2 X 4 m. = 10 minutes.
S. T. May 16th = 3 hrs. 34 m. 22 s.

Time after noon + 7 hrs. 15m.
10 hrs. 49m. 22 s.

Corr. for local time 10m.
o be subtracted)
.T. at birth = 10 hrs. 39m. 22 s. So Asc. is 19 m



96

Now we have found the cusps of the houses 1, 2, 3, 10, 11, 12
and the opposite signs with the same degrees are the cusps of the

opposite houses, 7, 8, 9, 4, 5, 6 *).

Opposite the ascendant = 25 19 45' we get cusp 7 =
*) % 19 45'

Opposite cusp 2=Q 5 comes cusp 8 = ~ 5
3 = $, 24 9 =: s: 24
10 = X 20 4 = P 20
11 = T 27 5 = =0= 27
12 = rn.!2 6 = * 12

We now proceed to see if there are any signs missing and going
over the signs in their order, we find that between cusps 11 and 12,
in the llth house, the 2

sign X is missing. ) We put it in the llth house.

Opposite tf the sign "I is missing, so we insert it in the 5th house
(the opposite house) these are the so-called intercepted signs.

The outer arrow indicates the direction in which the signs rise above
the horizon. The planets move through the signs and the houses in the

opposite direction (see fig. p. 27).
The diagram of the houses is ready now and we may proceed to

calculate the positions of the planets in it.

For May 16th we find given the longitude (Long.) the latitude (Lat.)
and the declination (Decl. for Q and ])). The decl. and the lat. of the

planets are given at the top of the page of Raphael's Ephemeris.
We find for long. Q 24 59' 45' in tf. This is the Sun's position at

Greenwich at noon. The birth took place at 7.30 a.m. Gr. T. i.e. 4 hrs
30 m. earlier.

Now, when calculating the planets we must proceed from Gr. time.
So in order to find the exact place of Q at birth we must subtract

the distance the Sun moves in 4 hrs. 30 m.
We proceed thus:
Position of the O May 16 noon 24 59' 45"

O May 15 24' 1' 57' subtract

Motion of O in 24 hrs. = 57' 48'
O 's motion in 1 hr. therefore 57' 48' : 24 = 3468' : 24 = 2' 24'
So in 4 hrs. 30 m. 4V2 X 2' 24' = 9' + 108' = 10' 48' 3

).

Oppositie V comes ^n..

ni.
n
25

5c.
2
) See horoscope p. 27.

3
) With the help of a table of logarithms this calculation may be done much

quicker (at the end of the book is a table of logarithms) As follows,
the log. for O's course in 24 hrs. (57 48' or 58') = 1,3949
the log. for 4 hrs. 30 m. = 7270

Addition gives 2,1219



97

Position of Q May 16. at noon = 24 59' 45' X
subtract 10' 48*

Position of Q at birth .... 24 49' tf *)

Position of ]) on May 16. noon = 4 55' 28' =0,

Position of } on May 15. noon =20 38' 55' ?
Each sign contains 30, so in order to come from np into =0., the

Moon has to move 30 20 38' 55'
= 9 21' 5"

The Moon moves in A = 4 55' 28'

Motion of D in 24 hrs. = 14 16' 33'

3) 's motion per hour 14 16' 33' : 24 = 36'

So the Moon's motion in 4 hrs. 30 m. is 4y2 X 36' = 2 42'.

Or by logarithms log. 14 17' = 2254
log. 4 hrs. 30 m. = 7270

log. 9524 = 2 41'.

The nearest log. is 9515.
The position of the Moon on May 16th is 4 55' ==

subtract 2 42'

Position at birth = 2 13' ==

We find the long, of the planets
for 23 42' 25 remains thus.

for # 7 33' IV s: remains thus.

for I? 5 51' n
5 43' n is the position on May 15th

8' is the motion of 1? in 24 hrs.

i.e. in 41 hrs. about 1'.
/-?

The position of 1? is therefore 5 51' 1' = 5 50' n.

The longitude of =
2|. 17 39' ^ %.

The motion per 24 hrs. in only 2', so need not be taken into
account for 4y2 hrs.

The longitude of d May 16th = 6 24' V
The longitude of <$ May 15th = 5 38' V
Motion d in 24 hrs. = 46' i.e. for 4l

/2 hrs. = 8'.

The position of d* therefore is 6 24' 8' 6 16' V.

The longitude of $ = 26 5' T D. remains thus.

As nearest log. agreeing to that, we find log. 2.1170 and as the value for it 11'.

By calculation we found IQ'48*; so there is an unimportant difference of 12*. In
like manner we may calculate the position of the O.

l
) We neglect seconds; more than 30* is 1 minute.

7



98

The long, of 5 =7 16' tf on May 16th.
The long, of =J>_29/ * on MaY 15th -

Motion in 24 hrs. = 1 47'

i.e. per hr. 1 47' -i- 24 = ^- = 4' 30', and in 4V2 hrs. = 20'.

Or with the aid of logarithms:
log. 1 47' = 1,1290
log. 4 hr,s. 30 m. 7270

log. 1,8560 = 20'.

The position of is therefore 7 16' 20' = 6 56' V.

At the top of the page of Raphael's Ephemeris, on the right, we find
the place of the ]) Node or Dragon's head, the place where ecliptic
and celestial equator intersect each other.
We find for it on May 15th 36' V

\ H;fffoerrence H ~,
on May 17th 30' T dlf P- d. = = 3 .

1

So place ft =0 33' V.
and place y (dragon's =

tail) 33' =&.

In order Ho find the or Pars of Fortune we add the position of
the 3) to that of the ascendant and subtract from the total the position of
the Sun, or:

= ]) -f asc. O-
Long. ]) is 2 13' =0= = 6 signs + 2 13'

Long asc. is 19 45' S5 = 3 signs + 19 45'

Together = 9 signs + 21 58'

Long O is 24 49' tf = 1 sign + 24 49' subtract
= 7 signs + 27 9' = 27 9' m.

We have seen on page 94 that we have to make a correction for
S. T. for the time before or after, noon Greenwich. With greater
differences in longitude East or West of Greenwich, we have to make
a second correction. For 24 hours i.e. for a complete rotation (360)
of the earth upon its axis, there is a difference of 4' S. T. *), so for

every 90 in longitude the difference is 1'. This difference is added to
Western Longitude and subtracted from the S. T. with Eastern Longitude.
The reason why is evident.

Seeing that the exact time of birth is very seldom known and these
two corrections together total some minutes at most, we do not commit
a crime when we simply neglect both corrections if the difference in

longitude and in time is not very great.
For the British Isles we can always neglect the correction of the

S. T. for the difference in longitude.

In order to get the correct ascendant and therefore a correct map
See Raphael's ephemeris for May 1913.



99

of the houses, the time of birth must be calculated exact to a minute.
Various methods have been given to this end, but we cannot deal with
them all here. This subject is more fully gone into later and one method
given. The correction of the time of birth requires very much experience
and patience and it is useless labour for a student of astrology.
For him it is the safest method to compare the data of the principal
events in his life and the position of the progressive planets with
regard to the cusps of the houses, especially of the M. C. (radix *)).

This will be dealt with later, when we take up the subject of the

progressive aspects.

We shall now insert the planets in the houses. The ascendant is

the East, the M. C. the South. The signs rise on the eastern horizon
and go through the South. The first degree of a sign rises above the
horizon followed by the remaining degrees and the other signs in their
order. (See hor. fig. pag. 27).

The sign tf is intercepted and in order to indicate that the Q is

posited in this intercepted sign and not in one of the neighbouring, we
put O 24 49' across the llth house; $ also is in this sign. So we
put 6 56' under the Q als<> across the house. The 3) is 2 13'
in =o=. On the cusp of the 5th house is dQ= 27. The first degrees of
=QI have, therefore, already passed the cusp of the 5th house and are
in the 4th house. So D 2 13' we put in the 4th house near the cusp.
8 too is in =0= (0 33') and so we put y 33' before and near
the 3). V 23 42' 25 comes in the first house (ascendant) right under the

cusp which bears 19 45' 25; $: 7 33' xty comes in the 8th house, for

the cusp is in 5 JS; 1? 5 50' n comes in the llth house; for n 12
is on the cusp. In like manner do $ 26 5' V D, rf 6 16' V and ft 33'
come in V in the 10th house or M. C. for V 27 is on the cusp. Place

27 9' rn, across the intercepted sign trt to denote that it is not in ==.

Radix is the name of the birth-horoscope, abbreviated r. or rad.



100

Birth-Horoscope for Buitenzorg (Dutch East Indies)
May 23. 1913 11 p.m.

We shall now calculate a horoscope for a place with Southern
Latitude e.g. Buitenzorg on Java. The birth took place May 23rd 1913,
11 p.m.

Buitenzorg is situated on 107 East. Long, and about 7 South. Lat.
107 East of Greenwich gives a difference in time of 107 X 4' = more
than 7 hrs. So it is at Buitenzorg more than 7 hrs. earlier and according
to Gr. T. the birth took place at 4 p.m. When calculating the longitudes
of the planets we thus have to add their motion during 4 hrs. to the

position at Greenwich at noon.
We can calculate the houses for Southern Latitude with Tables of

Houses for Northern Latitude by adding 12 hrs. to the S. T. at the
moment of birth and then taking for the signs obtained according to
this S. T., the opposite signs on the cusps of the houses.



101

The S. T. Greenwich is for May 23rd 4 hrs. 1 m. 58 s.

Time after noon 11

S. T. birth 15 h. 2 m.
Add. 12_

27 h. 2 m.
Subtract 24_

Obtained S. T. 3 h. 2 m.

If we use Raphael's Tables of Houses for different latitudes, we see
that the table for Madras (13 4' North. Lat.) come nearest the latitude
of Buitenzorg. We find in them:

For

The
For



102

Position d* on May 23rd is 11 43' V
Position rf on May 24th is 12 28' V
d"s motion in 24 hrs. 45'

i.e. in 4 hrs. 7'

so position rf at birth is 11 50' V.

In like manner we find:

$ 27 4' T
^ _ 20 56' tf

2J. 17 20' X
?? 6 46' n
ft 7 30' s:
t 23 52' 25
& 11' V

For we
long. ])

long. asc.

long. O



103

entailed in this desire after new experiences. Rising in ^ and in nv, the Moon
has a less good influence, it causes here egoism, pride and jealousy. In
the fiery signs it makes passionate and impulsive. Of great importance here,
as well as with the other planets in the ascendant, are the aspects the Moon
receives.

The O i*1 tne ascendant makes the body stronger and gives it an
abundance of vitality. The complexion is fair, the hair fair or golden, eyes
blue, and chin strongly developed. The nature is optimistic, the native will
have a strong sense of self-esteem and bears himself with dignity and authority.
He will be honest and faithful and have a strong will. The latter quality is

even present when the Sun receives bad aspects, but in that case the feeling
of authority changes into arrogance, masterfulness and selfishness.

In the airy and fiery signs the Sun-influence in the ascendant is most
favourable, it gives courtesy, intuition, uprightness. In V it gives too much
self-reliance, arid in rrt inflexibility.

$ in the ascendant gives a slim body, black hair and usually grey eyes,
sharp in expression. The nose is long, narrow and pointed, usually bent. Lips
thin. The temperament is nervous and sensitive. The face is narrow and long.
This position of $ is verY favourable for the intellect, but the way in which
the intellect will express itself, depends on the aspects $ receives.

In youth especially the influence of ^ here is felt ; if it is well aspected,
it causes precociousness. The Mercury types are usually eloquent, scientific,

susceptible, and restless and they are often fond of travelling. If Mercury is

badly aspected here, it makes the native talkative, irritable (in Jg"), affected,
or superficial (in %). $ in the ascendant in the airy signs has an especially good
influence. A badly aspected $ in the ascendant usually produces troublesome,
unreliable types who think much of themselves, criticise others, try to make
them appear ridiculous or slander them. A bad aspect of $: here may produce
an "inventor", but the inventions are generally worthless. This holds good
for $ in M. C. also.

$ in the ascendant gives a handsome body, a full face, full lips, a straight
short nose; usually brown, but sometimes blue eyes with a kind expression.
Politeness and kindness are constant characteristics. The face is oval, rather
too broad sometimes. $ frequently gives dimples in cheeks and chin.

The Venustype is sympathetic in appearance and manners, pure and
honest: is fond of appreciation. If $ here is badly aspected, especially by cf
the result is passion and sensuality. In 25, $ makes the native changeable in

friendship, in rrt jealous and exaggerated.

cf in the ascendant gives fair or red hair; the moustache is fairer than
hair und beard. The eyes have a quick, penetrating glance, the nose is shapely,
and somewhat bent in the upper Vs part. Lips thin, chin narrow. Eye-brows
beautifully curved. The rising sign may of course alter this. There is usually
a scar or a mark on the face.

Mars gives self-reliance, courage and strength, but when the aspects are
not very good, some quality of the animal nature is sure to come to the fore

making them disagreeable characters.
In fiery signs Mars gives great pushfulness, love of argument, the native



104

will usually be combative but a the same time generous. In "% Mars gives
tact and deliberation next to pushfulness, in rri passion (the type is dark here).
In airy signs, especially in n, d gives a sharp intellect.

2J. in the ascendant gives a stout, well set body, a square chin, a full

face with full eyes, which may be protruding somewhat. The complexion is

fresh, the hair fair or brown. The glance is frank and open (jovial type), the
expression of the eyes kind, but sharp and fiery in excitement. Baldness often
occurs under its influence. QJ. in asc., if well aspected, gives good health and
success in life. It is a very fortunate influence which awakens deeply religious
and moral feelings, but a strong affliction of Jupiter changes these feelings into

hypocrisy and untrustworthiness.
In airy signs QJ. makes the native humane, well-mannered, and awakens

the intuition. In til and ^ less good, in np especially, where it makes him
often autocratic and dishonest.

ft in the ascendant gives a tall, wiry stature, with an oval, thin head.
Hair dark, eyes brown or blue. The Saturn-type is slow in his movements and
serious in his mien. He seldom looks straight in your face, his glance is

usually fixed to the ground. He is persevering, patient, meditative, contem-
plative, and economical, often religious. The influence is very bad when Saturn
is ill aspected for it makes him unhappy, miserable, stubborn, mean, faint-
hearted. In airy signs especially 17 is at its best, working favourably on the
mind. Saturn is an enemy of superficiality. By its limitating, restraining influence
it has the effect of purifying the character. Often in this position it causes
long periods of depression and melancholy. An impediment of speech often
occurs under this influence (when afflicted).

1&. in the ascendant gives a strange expression to the face. The eyes are
of a peculiar steel-grey or bluish shade, impossible to interpret correctly. The
iris seems smaller than usual, so that the white of the eye is often visible
round the iris. The nose is large and sharply bent in the upper half. The natives
are strange in their mien, hasty, acute and often difficult to understand. It

gives a strong tendency towards all occult sciences and a sense of indepen-
dence of very high degree. Eccentric inclinations are usually present.

In airy signs especially the strong tendency towards occultism is shown.
J is worst in earthy signs.

<Jf in the ascendant. In this position. Neptune gives large, dreamy eyes.
With the highly developed type this planet gives an artistic taste, genius ; a
seer, a mind that seeks to solve the mysteries of chaos. With the lower type
^ often produces trance-mediums, weak, changeable characters that are often
addicted to liquor or drugs, e.g. morphine, or have unnatural habits. By the

strong position of Neptune, they come under its influence, but cannot normally
answer its high vibrations that in fact do not quite belong to our three-
dimensional kingdom. We see therefore by the peculiar influence of this

planet, that genius and moral sickliness are qualities that really touch each
other and come under the same influence. It depends upon the moral and
intellectual standpoint of the native as to the direction in which this influence
will be expressed.



105

The Planets in the Different other Houses x
).

We have dealt with the influence of the planets in the ascendant
and now we will deal with their influence in the other houses. Their
influence here on the shape of the body and in general on the character
is not so great. The 10th house (M. C.) is the first to take into account.
A planet on the cusp of the 10th house can exercise a great influence
on the character and the shape of the body, if there is no planet in
the ascendant. I know one who shows the pure Leo-type, though he
has Scorpio as ascendant and the Sun in Gemini. But the Moon is in

Leo, on the cusp of the 10th house (M. C.). The glance only is purely
that of Scorpio and the dignity and pride of Leo are accompanied
by the magnetism of the Scorpio-type.

The Sun in the Different other Houses 1
).

The Sun in 2nd, success in financial affairs, but if the Sun is ill aspected,
prodigal. When strongly afflicted, always judge the opposite; ill-success in
this case.

This rule holds good of course for the other houses as well.

in 3, many short journeys (when the Sun is in a mutable sign or in

Cancer). It gives success in all matters of the 3rd house e. g. literary pursuits.
Good for the intellect, usually a firm character. Help of neighbours, brothers
and sisters and sympathy from them. The Sun afflicted gives the opposite.

O in 4, is fortunate for the father (mother) and favourable for obtaining
real properties. It promises a happy old age and success during the latter

part of life.

O in 5, gives love for society, for speculation and entertainments in

general.

in 6 only good when the Sun receives no bad aspects, otherwise this

position is bad for the health, especially when afflicted by Saturn and Moon.

in 7 is good for partners, for marriage, for union in general. Often a
public position. A proud partner. When strongly afflicted this position gives
an unhappy marriage and ill-success in union, according to the nature of the

acpects.

in 8 and well aspected gives vitality and when there are good aspects
of Uranus or Neptune an inclination and a talent for occult studies. All that
is related to death comes under this house e.g. legacies t.c. Badly aspected it

usually gives a premature death; the nature of it is indicated by the planet
afflicting and by the sign.

in 9 gives success in scientific, especially philosophic and religious
studies and a tendency to gather knowledge by long journeys. A good aspect

See the first footnote p. 102.



106

of Mercury, especially, works favourably on the intellect, whereas a good
aspect of Uranus will bring a tendency for occultism. A bad aspect of Jupiter
in this house will lead to hypocrisy and the native will tend to fanaticism
if the bad aspect comes from Uranus or Mars.

O in JO. All aspects received by the Sun in this house are of the greatest
moment for the wordly position, honour and calling of the native. The Sun
well aspected in M. C. is good for the (father) mother, gives honour, success
in life and in all kinds of matters. It gives occupations and professions of

great responsibility. It is striking that nearly all ruling monarchs have either
the Sun or Jupiter in M. C. or in the ascendant. When afflicted this position
makes the native proud and arrogant.

O in 11 gives faithful and powerfull friends and brings fulfilment of hopes
and wishes we might cherish. Badly aspected this position means loss of

friends, disagreements through them; the asp. planet indicates from which side
we are to dread this.

O in 12 is unfavourable, viz. it compels the native to keep in the back-
ground, he feels limited in many directions. This position often gives eccentric
tendencies. The Sun afflicted, the native has much to suffer from secret
enemies. He usually lives apart from his relations and the cross he has to
bear during his earthly life is usually heavy. Good aspects, especially of the
benefics, change of course greatly for the better. This position always gives
a great inclination towards occult study. This is apt to degenerate into

psychism and mediumism, especially in the watery signs.

The Moon in the Different Houses. l
)

The Moon in 2 and well aspected, especially by a benefic, gives much
success in financial affairs. The money is usually earned in businesses that
have to do with fluids. But affliction by Saturn is a sure sign of poverty.

3) in 3 is favourable for short journeys and gives a strong liking for them.
The native is on good terms with brothers and sisters and neighbours. It gives
a receptive intellect and an inclination for study. This inclination is further
indicated by the aspects the Moon receives ; e.g. Mercury adds shrewdness and
alertness, Jupiter a tendency towards social pursuits, Venus to art, Uranus
to the occult and eccentric, etc.

3) in 4 indicates many changes during the latter half of life and success
in agriculture and as a contractor. When afflicted by Uranus sudden changes
of abode are to be expected. Generally an ill aspected Moon produces much
unhappiness in home life and an unfortunate old age. The opposite is true
with good aspects, especially of the benefics.

3) in 5 and well aspected means many children, love for all kinds of

pleasure and entertainment ; but with a bad aspect, especially of Saturn, much

See the first footnote p. 102.



107

illness for the children and difficulties through all matters relating to the
5th house. This position denotes changeability in friendship.

J) in 6 gives, when afflicted in mutable signs, a liability to chronic pul-
monary affections in

; fixed signs throat, bladder or heart affections, in cardinal

signs stomach-complaint and head-ache. Affliction by Mercury gives nervous
disorder, by Jupiter diseases of the liver and blood etc.; favourably aspected
it gives a good circulation.

3) in 7 denotes an early marriage if Saturn sends no aspect. If the
receives very bad aspects here, it denotes great inharmony or an early deat
of husband (wife) or partner. The Moon always indicates changeability in

attachment, with man as well as with woman, but in a female horoscope
there is something romantic in the connection and as a rule there is no relying
on the constant faithfulness of the husband. The same holds good for the

partner. For social life the Moon signifies popularity, but fluctuating of short
duration. Much depends on the aspects.

3) in 8 well aspected denotes inheritances or legacies from mother or wife
or their family. When the Moon is afflicted here, this position indicates a more
or less violent or unexpected death; by Mars and Uranus it means a sudden
death; by Saturn a slow, painful death, while an affliction by Neptune is

said to denote death by drowning, or in a deep trance, by opium, morphine.
This position is favourable for occult study.

in 9
"]) gives love of travelling and repeated changes during life, changes

that are usually advantageous. It is very conducive to the intellect and gives
love of studying philosophic or religious subjects. Well aspected by Mercury
gives a quick intellect, by Jupiter an inclination towards religion and
philosophy, by Uranus talent for occultism, with Neptune love of

mysticism, psychics and sometimes there is genius also. If the native is on a
low plane of evolution, the effect of the planets will be quite different of
course. Affliction by planets will produce difficulties through affairs denoted
by the afflicting planet. (See under t aspects).

3) in 10 in mutable signs gives many changes in calling and if the Moon
should also be ill aspected it makes the native a jack of all trades who is

master of none. Well aspected this position gives a successful life and notwith-

standing the many changes a good name. With bad aspects, especially of
Mars and Uranus, there is great liability of losing honour and good name.
The Moon strongly placed in this house is good for the mother and assures

help from friends. An affliction by Saturn gives many difficulties to be overcome
in every enterprise; nothing goes smoothly.

From the planets placed in this house and from the aspects they receive
combined with the aspects Mercury receives, the calling or profession

the native has a talent for, may be found, (see p. 140).

3) in 11 gives many acquaintances. agreeable intercourse with them
and help from them. The friendship is usually of a superficial nature. With
strong affliction this position gives difficulties and loss through friends.

The aspecting planet denotes the nature of the friends e.g. Uranus in n
indicates friends with a propensity to occultism, theosophists, astrologers,



108

spiritualists etc. Mars denotes military friends, surgeons, dentists, merchants in
metals and arms, etc. (see p. 142).

3) in 12 and afflicted is a very bad position. It produces many secret
enemies and if further indications are found in the horoscope, e.g. a strong
affliction by Saturn or Mars it may lead to imprisonment. It brings limitation
and obstruction in all manner of ways and the best chance of success is

given by a field of activity in hospitals, prisons and suchlike institutions
which keep us apart from life in the world. It is an ideal position for a hermit,
a monk, a nun, a sick-nurse. The native usually is inconstant in character.

Mercury in the different Houses *).

in 2 is good for success and gain through scientific studies, through
penmanship, delivering lectures, in various branches of instruction, in jour-
nalism etc.

A good aspect to the Moon gives gain through the public; to Venus gain
through the fine arts or an activity in which good taste and fashion play a
part; to Jupiter gain through a sphere of work where intuition, law or moral
principle are the basis, to Saturn through tact and perseverance, to Uranus
gain through eccentric enterprise or uncommon field of action, also through
inventions; to Mars through mechanics or adroitness. The signs whence the
aspects come will give us further elucidations, as will also the house from
which the aspect comes. This applies of course, for all houses in which
Mercury is placed.

^ in 3 promises many short journeys and much instruction and experience
through them, for this position of Mercury makes the spirit very active and
alert. The planet is here in the house of Gemini (harmonious) and so
it can express better here than elsewhere. It gives great love of study and
often eloquence. A good aspect of Uranus here gives great intuition and love
of metaphysics; Saturn gives the power of concentration and profound
thinking.

If Mercury is strongly afflicted in this house by Saturn und Neptune, there
is danger of mental disorder, especially when Mercury receives no help from
Jupiter or Venus. Strong affliction by Saturn in this house causes depression
and despondency.

$ in 4 promises many changes of abode and troubles in home-life. Well
aspectedit gives an inclination to, and success in, all matters concerned with
real properties and agriculture, while at the same time it indicates that the native
till the end of his life will retain his intellectual powers unimpaired. If

Mercury is badly aspected here it promises and old age full of difficulties
and care.

in 5 and afflicted may produce much care and anxiety concerning the
children, troubles in love-affairs, and loss through speculation and gambling.
Well aspected, luck in speculations. The intellect usually allows itself to be
carried away too much by the emotions. This position gives love for intel-

lectual work.

See the first footnote p. 102.



109

$ in 6 is a very bad position as regards health, if the horoscope indicates
a weak nervous system; for it brings restlessness, anxiety, worry, also a
tendency to mental overstraining. Though Mercury is here in its own house
(the house of the Virgin) where it can best express its powers, yet the native
seldom succeeds in seeing his talents appreciated, and he will be better as
servant than as master.

All afflictions of Mercury in this house are dangerous for the spirit, espe-
cially those of Saturn and Uranus. Nervous dyspepsia and (in the mutable
signs) disorders of respiration frequently occur. With strong affiction in tip, #
or 3C there is danger of insanity.

$ in 7 and well aspected gives usually a public field of activity on intel-

lectual lines. The wife (husband) or partner will be very quick-witted. In
affliction, domestic quarrels and disagreements are sure to occur. The partner
is generally younger. As Mercury takes the qualities of the planets with which
it is in aspect, it is of the greatest importance to consider these aspects,
carefully.

in 8. The 8th house gives an answer to everything related to death, but
in order to decide as to death and the nature of it, we must carefully consider
the sign on the cusp and the planets in the 8th house, the ascendant, the

hyleg and all that has to do with health, such as e.g. the aspects Sun and
Moon receive. For no bad combination of directions can cause early death if

the other indications promise good health and long life. The position of $
in 8 encourages study and investigation of occult and hidden affairs. Death
occurs while the native is fully conscious. This position often denotes me-
diumism and psychism, but gives also if ill aspected, danger of nervous
and brain disorders.

5 in 9 gives good intellectual powers, love of scientific research, success
in authorship, especially when placed in an airy sign or in

tip.

Mercury badly aspected here, gives great irresolution, indecision and a
tendency to worry and there will be no question of success under these
circumstances.

in 10 is very favourable for the intellect, but gives also great changea-
bility and an inclination to take various callings in hand at a time. Much
depends here on the sign and the aspects how far this strong position of

Mercury will work favourably or unfavourably; for in a fixed sign or with
favourable aspects from fixed signs, or Saturn throwing a benefic ray, will

considerably mitigate the changeable influence of Mercury on the affairs of the
10th house.

If it is strongly afflicted, the honour and the good name of the native will

be in danger. The planet throwing the worst aspect, will indicate the fault of
character that causes this danger. From the aspects of in 10 the conclusion
can be come to, for what calling the native is best fitted. (This subject will be
gone into more fully later).

Q in 11 indicates friends younger than the native and a friendship that has
more to do with the intellect than with feeling. The sign indicates the nature
of the friends. In airy signs especially this position is favourable.



110

g in 12. The 12th house is an occult house and so this position of Mercury
inclines to and gives a talent for occultism and mysticism; usually the oppor-
tunity or the gift of expressing oneself is lacking here and the native is seldom
understood and appreciated. Want of self-reliance and of constancy are the
characteristics of the 12th house.

The Remaining Planets and the Nodes of Moon and Planets
in the Houses.

Combining the nature of the planets and those of the houses, we
are able to define, without much difficulty, the influence of the other

planets on the native in the houses. (See the meaning of the houses p. 90).
Benefics, or Q or 3) well aspected in the
2nd house will be favourable and conducive to financial affairs;
in 3 to travelling and to the intellect;
in 4 to domestic life and old age;
in 5 to children, pleasures and speculations;
in 6 to health and harmony with inferiors;
in 7 to union and social life;
in 8 to legacies and obtaining money through marriage;
in 9 to long journeys and philosophic and religious studies;
in 10 to honour, success and calling;
in 11 to friendship and fulfilment of cherished wishes;
in 12 little care and few enemies.
Malefics in these houses or benefics ill aspected denote the opposite.

The dragon's head in M. C. or in conjunction to Sun or Moon seems
in many cases to exercise a very favourable influence in the house it

occupies, whereas the dragon's tail in M. C. or in tf with Sun or Moon
in other cases gives the only explanation to be found sometimes for a
life full of adversity and misfortune. In this direction much has still to
be explained and every student of astrology is recommended to record
his experiences concerning this.

The ancient astrologers and the Hindus even now consider the Moon's
nodes to be of great importance. The fe and ft move 19 20' a year
retrograde through the Zodiac and complete the entire revolution

through the 12 signs in 18 years 225 days. The planets also have their

nodes, these however, have completely lost their significance in

modern astrology. Seeing that the motion of these nodes is very slow
( 1 on an average per century) one might regard their influence in

the horoscope (if that influence exists) as a constant factor and every
one may decide for himself, how far that influence is present in his
own life, counting the dragon's head a good, and the dragon's tail

a bad influence. I give the place of these nodes as they are in our
century. They are not mentioned in the ephemeris.



Ill

(North-node) $ (South-node)
Neptune 1 9 43' sz 9 43'
Uranus n 13 17' ^ 13 17'
Saturn 25 22 5' ^ 22 5'

Jupiter 25 9 24' % 9 24'
Mars V 18 2' m 18 2'

Venus n 15 44' ,? 15 44'

Mercury tf 17 9' ni 17 9'

The same holds good for the Pars of Fortune (0). Opinions differ,
but those who deny its influence and call the 'lucky point' a chimera
of Ptolomy, are probably wrong. Ptolomy was not likely to suffer from
chimeras. Only a small portion of his knowledge has come down to us
and we are consequently compelled to seek and discover afresh.

A. E. Thierens .says the following concerning the 0: "From my own
experience I have found that the in the birth-horoscope as well as
in the progressive one and in any other, stands for much and possesses
an extremely practical significance in the horoscope, it is the practical
result, the concrete synthesis of the horoscope as a whole."

As regards fe it seems to us that this symbol signifies one short

glance at the qualities of the native's soul.

The Sun in the Twelve Signs.

As we have already seen, the Q in the horoscope denotes the

Individuality, the Ego, again and again incarnating to gain on the

physical plane experiences which it could not obtain on the other

planes; and as we believe that the aim of human evolution cannot be
one-sidedness, it follows that the Ego during its many incarnations does
not always express through the same sign, but through different signs,

according as it needs development in one direction or another. An
Ego that needs development of its power of will and faculty of perse-
verance will be born in a fixed sign; another that has to enfold the
emotional side of nature, in a watery sign, and according as one side
or another of the emotional side has to developed, it will choose one
of the watery signs 25, ni or DC.

This, however, need not always occur in this way. One might as
well suppose that a highly developed individual has to do a certain
work during his reincarnation and that he to that end, needs the strongest
developed side of his character: In this case the Ego will put its full

force at his disposal in order to do his work well.
In the former case it would seem that the position of the O m a

certain sign indicates the already developed side of the character, but



112

the reason for this is simply that this sign compels him as it were to
show the concurring qualities. In a sense it is the aspects that actually
indicate his real force.

The position of the O m Q. e-g- need not represent a strong
individuality at all, and that of the O in =0= or s; a weak individuality,

on the contrary the reverse may be the case, though it expresses
itself in rather a powerful way through Q,. It is my conviction that the
real power of the Ego is in no way revealed by the horoscope. That
which is divine in man is surrounded by an impenetrable veil and only
by following man in his dealings and doings can we somewhat surmise
to what height he has risen. That is why some knowledge of his

dealings and doings his strivings is decidedly necessary if one
would give, according to the horoscope, a more or less detailed image
of the character and everything related to it.

When one considers the horoscopes of well-known leaders and great
men in various spheres of action, one will find that many have Scorpio
strongly placed, either as representative of the Personality Q) or ascen-

dant) or of the Individuality (O).
One should not derive from this that many extraordenary highly

evolved Ego's were born under the sign n\, but tenacity and the longing
after glory and for being worshipped is present here.

When great ability in one direction or other and great eloquence
are joined to this, a "scorpio" will easily fascinate a certain public
circle, and bring them at his feet. The public likes worshipping man!

Is it mere chance that in the horoscopes of suchlike strong and
self-confident natures Saturn "the Watcher on the Threshold" takes a
prominent place ? Saturn it is who will bring to light in course of time,
whether self-love or Universal love of mankind was the motive. The
latter can be expected of a really highly evolved Ego.

The actual value of the Ego is in the horoscope not indicated by
the position of the O- The limitations more or less to which
the Ego is subject in his expression during this incarnation, is at most
indicated.

The Sun symbolises the highest and therefore represents in the

horoscope honour and glory; generally speaking his standing amidst
his fellows. Ill aspected and receiving no help from good aspects of

% or , will be an indication that the native will not be able to attain
to glory and honour and a high position, but along a very difficult path.

It goes without saying that the tendencies of character and the
characteristics given below, are somewhat modified by the aspects
which the Sun receives in the sign. How the tendency will express
itself in life, depends further on the personality (the position of 3)), on
the vehicle, the physical body (the ascendant) and on the M. C. (his
view on things).



113

The Sun in Aries. ')

O in V (March 21st April 21st) Bismarck, Emile Zola,
General Booth, Gambetta, Frederick van Eeden, C. Hahnemann.

Gives the characteristic qualities of the sign Aries to character and
2

body ) according as the Sun has a more or less strong position in the
horoscope.

This position gives energy, love of action and of being a leader of
others. This quality is already present in childhood, but may be much
modified during this period by the ascendant. It might for instance be
latent for a long time when Cancer or Pisces rises at birth and then
show as a characteristic much later. There is a tendency to strong
impulse, but at the same time power of will, because the Sun, the

symbol of the will, is exalted in V.
Originality, self-reliance and a certain lightheartedness that is the

consequence of the hopefulness which is the keynote of the character,
makes them often good leaders and when Mars aspects the Sun well,
much success is to be expected from callings that come under Mars,
such as militarism, surgery etc. Amongst these we find the pioneers.
They have an inborn talent for it. They possess vitality and toughness
of body, at least if the other directions do not oppose this altogether;
but they have little patience and are frequently given to irritability
and restlessness. The head is the sensitive part (the head V).

The Sun in Taurus.

O in X (April 22nd May 21st) Alphonse Daudet, Turner,
Tschaikowsky, Czar Nicholas II, John Brahms.

Much self-reliance and stubbornness are its principal characteristics.
This position gives tact and constancy, but usually no very strong
intellect. They are dogmatic, conservative and think much of themselves,

for the rest they are good-hearted, and devoted in friendship;
thwarted they can become extremely obstinate. They are slow in their
movements and they know how to find the good things of the earth

everywhere and appreciate them.

They wish to stay in the place they feel best suited to and do not
remove without clear reasons. Their success lies where steadiness and

1) See the first footnote p. 102.
2
) The same holds good for the other signs. What is said under the

ascendant (see p. 39 49) of the different signs relating to the build

of the bodyand general characteristics holds good more or less for the

position of the Sun in the signs
8



114

persistent striving is required, as well in the building line, agriculture
(earthy sign), as in mining enterprises. They like to hear their own me-
lodious voice in singing or reciting.

They do not criticize, they do not worry unnecessarily, they are

easy-going. They seldom remain bachelors and usually make happy
patres familias. They are reliable in material affairs and in their calm,
staid way they are untiring workers. This position usually gives great

1

vitality but with affliction by d or $ there is danger of apoplexy. They
are fond of the fine arts ($ the ruler), especially music and singing.
(Throat and neck X).

The Sun in Gemini.

O in H (May 22nd June 21st) Prof. Holland, Albrecht
Diirer, Dante, Richard Strauss, Oliver Lodge.

The calm composure of the preceding sign here gives place to the

movability, changeability that is peculiar to all dualistic natures. Gemini
has two strings to his bow and will play them both at a time. He
wants to have more than one sphere of work and would like to be in

two places at a time if this were possible. He likes best to undertake
different things simultaneously.

His nature is courteous and confident one moment, wavering the
next, for the rest kind and good-tempered. His intellect is quick, he is

apprehensive, and has great love for arts and sciences, but likes to
wander on the surface of them, though he takes the air of an expert.
He likes travelling and movement in the open air. He is handy, nimble-

fingered and prefers a vocation in which he can display his dexterity;
pen-drawing, reporter of news, teaching profession, or public orator.

Many good speakers are found among them, artists, publishers of perio-
dicals, journalists, (n and respiration lungs).

Their work is more probing, trying rather than finishing, at least
with the lower type. The higher type is usually highly scientific and
has an all-round knowledge.

The Sun in Cancer.

O in 25 (June 21st July 22nd) William Stead, Garibaldi,
Joseph Chamberlain.

This position gives great receptivity and tenacity, the latter often

expresses itself in a retentive memory, but also in miserliness and greed.
This position often gives a certain indolence but once that is overcome,
this sign gives great force. The keynote of the character is generosity



115

and kindness, especially in youth attended with a degree of timidity
and very little self-reliance.

The will is not strong. Domestic life attracts, sociableness is every-
thing to him, the one condition of happiness as it were. Nothing puts
him so much about as unsympathetic surroundings; for the rest he is

easy in intercourse. The health is not over-strong.
He easily assimilates everything (S5 and the stomach) he is

modest but cannot bear being overlooked, not being taken notice of.

He loves to ponder on the past and dwell on family-traditions.

The Sun in Leo.

O in Q. (July 23rd Aug. 22nd) Napoleon Bonaparte,
Colonel Olcott, Percy Byssche Shelley, Reynolds. (The last

named had as ascendant ITt and the 3) in 25. hence his love
of detail accompanied by his ingenious sense of colour and
line). H. P. Blavatsky, Bernard Shaw.

Fond of power and authority, faithful, noble, sympathetic, unable
to do a mean act. His manner is characterised by a certain pride and
distinguishedness and he is easily carried away by his indignation.

Unless his superiors place him in a position of authority it is with
great difficulty he can accommodate himself to an inferior one.

He has a strong sense of his responsibility in the surroundings in

which he moves and has influence (the heart and $).
He is generous and ready to help, sometimes affable, also often

assuming and impudent.

The Sun in Virgo.

O in tip (Aug. 23rd Sept. 22nd). Queen Wilhelmina, Goethe,
Willem Bilderdijk.

Scientific, inventive, intellectual, methodical, over-nice, talented, often

selfish, always critical. They .are great lovers of detail and seek detail

everywhere, so that they often lose sight of the greater perspective.
This is probably the reason why so many people of doubting mind are
found under this sign.

The key-note of the character is a longing after purity and this

longing expresses itself on the material plane in a great nicety as regards
food etc. (digestion bowels irp).

As he often suffers from lack of self-confidence, he feels more at

ease in a position as an inferior than as a head. Virgo governs the
house of service (6) and so this position of the Sun gives, when afflicted,
troubles with inferiors.



116

...-

The Sun in Libra.

Q in =0= (Sep. 23rd Oct. 23rd). Paul Krflger, Carmen Sylva,
Annie Besant.

Here the desire for equilibrium (=QB , loins, kidneys) and harmony,
moral and mental expresses itself strongly e.g. in great love of arts.

It gives idealism but usually little will-power and perseverance.
He is a great lover of order and rule. This position gives success

and sometimes inclination to seclusion and to travelling. He is usually
loved on account of his equanimity, especially by the other sex.
He is just and very intuitive and inclined to give his powers to the
elevation of the people, preferring to work in combination with
others and does not usually lack helpers to assist him in his efforts.

A Libra-type must have order and rule in his life and in his sur-

roundings.

The Sun in Scorpio.

O in IU (Oct. 24th Nov. 22nd). Roosevelt, Martin Luther,
Ex-King Manuel, King Victor Emanuel, Erasmus.

Expresses, like the opposite sign Taurus, a strong sense of self-

esteem, authority and pride. The character is sometimes disagreeable,
aggressive, tyranic, mistrustful, jealous.

There are two very different types, the high and the low nvtype.
The former has overcome his low passions and displays little of the
above-mentioned bad qualities, he has a great capacity for work
and desires to give it to his ideal. In none of the other signs do the
two extremes lie so far from each other as in this.

ni gives stubbornness, constancy, energy, passion and an extraordi-

narily strong feeling of sympathy and antipathy. It gives a talent for

chemistry, occult alchemy, surgery. The interest is strongly drawn towards
the problems concerning life and death, and the process of generation,
of which ITL is the ruler.

The Sun in Sagittarius.

O in ,? (Nov. 23rd Dec. 21st). Mark Twain, Conscience.

Denotes a very independent and enthusiastic character with religious-
philosophic tendencies. The nature is generous and honest but proud
and often irritable ; they quickly fly into a temper, but their rage is not



117

long-lived. They always strive after the highest and hate all that is

dishonest and mean.
They are very communicative and like to have some one about

them to whom they can utter their thoughts; they generally have
no patience to listen to others. They have a great love of all kinds of

sport and of travelling. Their innate tendency to change of abode, com-
bined with their communicative-ness, make them very well fitted for

public speakers, for missionaries e.g.

They are restless but hopeful and possess a high degree of intuition.

Their thirst after wisdom sometimes degenerates into a tendency to

argument and dispute. The upper leg is the sensitive place of the body.

The Sun in Capricorn.

O in /<? (Dec. 22nd Jan. 20th) Carnegie, Gladstone, Louis
Pasteur. The last mentioned has 6 planets in %, but the po-
sition of the 3) in H and =0= as ascendant help to equalise it.

Obedient and dogmatic, strives after effect practical, calm and
deliberate, never impulsive. He is serious and plain, diplomatic, and
pursues with great perseverance the goal he has before him. He wishes
to see it crystallised and shaped into form.

His great desire is to climb high (the Capricorn) and by dint of

perseverance he as a rule succeeds in his enterprises, though he will
have many difficulties to overcome on his path.

By reason of his incommunicative-ness he has few friends, one sees
him most often by himself. He is a good master as well as a good
servant. The knee is the sensitive part of the body.

In everything his love of form and decoration shows, even in reli-

gion (rites and law). His force is concentration, making practical the
ideal of Sagittarius. Sometimes this nature expresses itself in discontent
and melancholy.

The Sun in Aquarius.

O in IS (Jan. 21st Febr. 18th). Francis Bacon, Emma-
nuel Swedenborg, Charles Dickens, Joseph Israels, Lead-
beater, Ruskin.

Gives great love of scientific, especially occult studies, tracing
the hidden forces in man, plant and animal attracts him and his great
intuition helps him in judging and analysing the human character.

His key-note is: universal love of mankind. He loves the plastic
arts and to practise them in everything ; he is broad of conception
and original, and by reason of this is often misunderstood (strange



118

T&. characters). He is usually popular, sympathetic and at the same time
tactful, prudent, patient and persevering. He is fond of the society of
friends and can quickly make himself at home in any circle. He some-
times fails to keep his promises. Fits of high idealism (#) and periods
of depression (1?) follow each other alternately. The ankles are the
sensitive parts of the body.

The Sun in Pisces.

O in DC (Feb. 19th March 21st). George Washington,
Chopin, Melanchton, Michel Angelo.

Usually misunderstood characters who through all kinds of "circum-
stances" are unable to show their real nature; they seem compelled to
remain in the background. Happiness is often not theirs, they suffer

adversity and find obstruction everywhere, though they want to do
good and are by nature kind, loving and ready to help.

They often lack self-reliance and power of will and are therefore
to a great extent dependent on their environment, by which they allow
themselves to be influenced.

The key-note of their character is self-sacrifice. A humble, serving
calling is most fit for them.

This position is not favourable to vitality and for marriage.
Their nature is honest, kind, religious, but rather changeable as

regards this latter.

We see here the mysterious influence of Neptune. The feet are the
sensitive places of the body.

The Moon in the Twelve Signs. *)

The same qualities as the Sun in the different signs, but here it is

more the passing tendencies of the personality. We must bear in mind
that here it is more the emotions and the intellect, and less the will
that is influenced.

J> in V- Sharp intellect, impulsive, noisy, independent, much self-confidence,
inclined to act impulsively, independent of others' opinions, combative. Loves
to be active, and a leader of a group.

3) in V persevering and stubborn, conservative and calm. Good position for

obtaining possessions. Favourable for agricultural enterprises and gain through

See the first foo note p. 102.



119

them. Talent for music, especially singing. Kind and compliant, but more or
less sensuous.

3) in n. Love of study and for an intellectual sphere of work, movable,
changeable, irresolute; fond of travelling, walking, visiting. Handy and capable,
also a good speaker. Gemini is a double signi) and in many ways the
inclination to do two things at a time appears. If afflicted unreliable, dishonest.

3) in 25. Imaginative power, economical, psychic and very sensitive.
Attached to home and to mother. Kind and pleasant in intercourse, but chan-
geable in friendship. Liability to imitate others. He loves to live near the water
and is fond of voyages.

3) in Q^. Likes to choose a field of activity of much responsibility. Perse-
vering, faithful and honest, generous, kind, especially when he is shown how
much he is appreciated. Intuitive but proud. It gives love for the fair sex
and of luxury in general.

3) in tip. Good for the intellect, discrimination, and for business. Better
fitted to be a servant than a master. The right type for traveller, teacher, clerk,
carrier. Irresolute and critical, he attaches too much importance to details.

3) in =t. Usually strongly attracted to the other sex, courteous and agreeable
in intercourse. Has many friends and is strongly influenced by them. An
inclination to cooperate with others. Love of art.

3) in rrt. Self-confident, constant, mysterious, sensual, arrogant, energetic,
stubborn, revengeful, rude, sometimes inclined to liquor. Attracted to the other
sex, but the married life is often unhappy. It is a bad position for the mother.
Much depends here on the aspects.

3) in #. Restless and nervous. Great love for all kinds of sport, especially
those associated with horses. Is attracted to religion, philosophy and especially
to occultism and mysticism. Intuitive, upright and kind, but irritable and
changeable.

3) in %. Fond of glory and honour. Longing to do great things, to occupy
a high position. By his perseverance and frugality he can attain much, but he
has to overcome great difficulties. It is a bad position for the parents and
often causes difficulties through them. Other qualities are selfishness, economy,
insensibility, chastity.

3) in zz. Inclination to all occult sciences, especially astrology; interest in

everything out of the common. He has breadth of view and is humane, inde-

pendent and idealistic. Intuitive. A student of Nature.

3) in X- Receptive and sensitive, calm, reserved, inclined to dejection. Love
of the romantic and all that affects the feeling. This position of the Moon gives
mediums and sensitive people. Pisces governs the 12th house and the limita-
tions of this house express themselves in this position. The native is kept in,

the background.

i) The double or movable signs are n, ttj>, ^, ft-



120

l
Mercury in the Different Signs. )

$ in V- Will love to argue, to exaggerate. Impulsive, changeable in opinion
but quick and alert of thought.

^ in X- Diplomatic and tactful in speech. The intellect is practical but
often dogmatic and insistant, sometimes stubborn.

$ in n. Love of study and travelling, clear intellect, sharp judgment,
spiritual. Is seldom silent.

$ in SB. Very receptive, adaptive and changeable of opinion; it gives a
clear memory and tact

$ in Q_. Breath of view and intuition. It gives self-reliance, organising talent.

$ in np. Critical intellect, detailing everything, hard to convince, though
changeable; careful, scientific.

$ in =t. Fond of harmony; a calm intellect, without passion or haste. It

refines the intellect; cultured.

$ in n\. The intellect is sharp and critical, mistrustful, much love for occult
and mystic studies, and if the aspects are not unfavourable, gives the
power of concentration.

in ^ is not strongly posited ; it makes the native independent and some-
times troublesome, impulsive, touchy; gives philosophical tendencies.

$ in rff. Tact, and a tendency to profound study, critical, mistrustful,
economical.

$ in yz. Persevering, intuitive, gives power of concentration an abstract
thinker, good for judging human characters.

$ in DC. Very receptive to impressions, sensitive, adaptive to circumstances,
but negative and superficial.

Of the planets it is sufficient to treat only of Mercury in the diffe-

rent signs, seeing that it is not hard to find the modified influence of
the other planets in the signs by combining the meaning of sign and planet.
By doing it himself, the student learns sooner to judge a horoscope
and to make all possible combinations, than if he merely reads every-
thing mechanically.

In order to reduce "the pigeon-hole work" in practical astrology,
the system of divisions so much rejected by some professional astro-

logers, we omit to treat on the influence of $, d, Qj., ft, $: and t in
the signs. These astrologers forget that they themselves have learned

astrology according to the system of divisions and that it is of great use
for the pupil. It won 't do without practical classification.

The reader will excuse us for being still an adherent to the con-

!) See the first footnote p. 102.



121

demned system. Our idea is that every one becomes his own astrologer.

The O 1) and are the most important factors. When other planets
are posited in the ascendant, their influence becomes stronger of course,
this has been already mentioned in dealing with the houses.

By bearing in mind the nature of the planets and that of the houses,
the making of the various combinations will not entail many difficulties.

A good planet in a sign is favourable for all that is represented by
the sign and a bad planet denotes strife and disharmony in the same
way. Good aspects received by the planet in a sign, indicate help received
from that direction, bad aspects on the other hand opposition. A
malefic, well-aspected, is more favourable for the things represented by
the sign, than a good planet ill-aspected.

Venus is e.g. bad in the Saturnine sign Capricorn, but better in the

airy signs n and s:, though in the latter case a peculiar Uranian strain
is mixed with the qualities of Venus. In the former sign (n), $ is

coloured by the changeability which characterises both ^ and
the airy sign. Thus $ in DC strengthens the emotional side of this

sign and adds to it love of art and of all that is beautiful. In their
own signs the benefics and the malefics strengthen the qualities of
these signs.

$ in 25 adds the changeable tendencies of the Moon, but also the

tenacity of So in the shape of a good memory. in == will make him
long to associate with others; it is good for intuition, artistic effort,
for intellectual pursuits.

First note the aspects the planet receives and in which sign it is

placed, to see whether this sign cooperates with or opposes the influ-

ence of the planet most favourable. A fiery planet as cf in a watery
sign will be unfavourably placed, and in a fiery sign favourably, where-
as an airy and an earthy sign keep the mean, something depends,

1

however, on the house, for d in the 10th house and in 25 is, though
very unfavourable, yet somewhat improved because 10 is the house of

~Z and we know 1

that d is exalted in *%.

A bad planet e.g. T? well-aspected, will be more favourable to the
house it is in, than a good planet e.g. $ ill-aspected in that house.

When two planets are placed in one house, one being a benefic
and the other a malefic, the planet that is nearest the cusp of the
house, as for the 2nd house, nearest to cusp 2, will exercise its

influence first, followed by a period in which the other planet plays
a more active part. The same holds good for more than two planets
in one house.

The general action of the planets in the signs on the parts of the

body that the signs represent, should be borne in mind. They are as
follows :

O makes active, sanguine, it expands, gives heat, inflammation, but acts

favourably on the whole.



122

makes changeable, watery, secretive, gives cold expansion of the part
of the body the sign represents, in which the is

"]) placed.

^ makes movable, gives nervous pains, reflex-movements, sensitiveness
of the particular part of the body.

$ gives humid tumours, but generally acts favourably on the parts of the

body represented by the sign.
1

d gives pains, restlessness, acute inflammation, injuries by burning or

cutting, scars, acts very inharmoniously on the part of the body represented
by the sign.

b. also : but its disturbances are of a very lasting nature, chronic puru-
lent inflammations, ossification, sclerose tuberculosis, lumbago, poor circulation,
cold, shrivelling of the particular part.

2J. acts in the opposite direction, it is expansive, giving heat, it causes san-

guinity, over-nutrition, fattening, and works very mildly on the particular part.

l gives nervous pains, occurring suddenly and subsiding quickly, sensitive-
ness of the part and a propensity to inflammation ; spasms.

t causes shrivelling of the part through lack of function. Wrinkling of
the skin. Numbed pains.

Mars in V (the head) acute headaches, restlessness and sleeplessness,
affliction of ^ in V causes dull pains, b. in V colds, deafness, toothache,
rheumatic headache, b. in $ slow action of the heart, I? or d in ,0=

kidney disease, $: in n sharp pains in arms and shoulders, asthma, $
in V nervous headaches etc.

General Action of the Planets in the Houses.

In judging one should always take into account that the general
action of the different planets in the houses is as follows:

The Sun brings honour, glory, dignities, favours
with affliction the opposite.
The Moon brings changes, publicity, favourable or
unfavourable according to the aspects.
Mercury brings adaptibility, movability, memory;
disturbances with affliction.

Venus brings happiness, harmony;
misfortune and disharmony with affliction.

Mars brings impulse, power of work;
intemperance, and quarrels with affliction.

Jupiter brings abundance, increase, religion;
adversities, and insincerity with affliction.

Saturn brings frugality, concentration, depth;



123

limitation, hindrance, misfortune and adversities with affliction.
Uranus brings originality;
eccentricity, impulse.
Neptune brings genius, aesthetics;
chaos and sometimes perversity with the undeveloped individual.

These are general influences. Under the aspects these influences are
spoken of at greater length.

A few examples. Mars in M. C. gives a Mars-influence in all affairs
of the 10th house, so the calling gets a Mars-character, the native feels
attracted to callings that have to do with metals, sharp instruments,
with surgery, chemistry, militarism, and if Mars is wellaspected, he
will succeed in them. If Mars is ill aspected, he will experience all

manner of adversity, he will have to change his calling repeatedly ;

his honour and reputation will be in danger.
Neptune in M. C. gives something chaotic, artistic, according to the

native's development. He will have an out-of-the-way career and will feel
attracted to mysticism.

Saturn in the 7th house and ill aspected will give delay and mis-
fortune in everything connected with the life of union, as disappoint-
ment in married life, with partners ; trouble and opposition in public life etc.

The houses indicate the nature of the trouble and opposition e.g.
a bad aspect from house 1 1 denotes opposition from friends or acquain-
tances. The nature of the so-called friends is indicated by the afflicting
planets; e.g. affliction of cf from 11 would denote opposition, slander
etc. from such so-called friends as come strongly under Mars, e.g. mili-

1

tary men, instrument-makers, dentists and also those who have d strongly
in their horoscopes, in ascendant or in M. C.

If Saturn is in 3, opposition may be expected from more scientific

acquaintances.
r? in 4 denotes a solitary old age and a disagreeable domestic life.

T? in 6, difficulties with servants, inferiors ; afflicted -in 10, very unfa-
vourable to honour and good name. O $ r 31- m 10 on tne other
hand, exactly the reverse. It brings great popularity. $ in 7 is very favou-
rable to marriage, union and social life. I? in 1 1 few, or older friends etc.

Remember a malific well aspected is better than a benefic ill aspected,
so always note the aspects!

The position of 2|. in ==, the positive sign of Venus, will add to the

good qualities that 2|. gives, such as uprightness, piety, imagination, the
Venus-tendencies such as love of art, friendship. 2J. in % the positive
sign of T? will make the spirit more serious, less hopeful, but it is

favourable to the ~Z tendencies, such as the wish to become famous in

a public position. In == Jupiter is better posited, the reason will be
1

clear by now. d in airy signs gives too great a passion and agitation
in all doings indicated by the ruler of the sign. In fiery signs cf shows
best because they agree to its nature ; it is good in earthy signs (espec-



124

ially in J? and V) because the caution and tact of these signs is

accompanied by the force and progressiveness of Mars.
The nature of the aspects receives, will somewhat indicate the

calling.
Thus we can judge all planets in the different houses.
It is one of the best exercises by which to develop our faculty of

combining. A certain degree of intuition is a great help here.

Looking upon it superficially one would say that man would expe-
rience the magnetic and electric influences of the planets strongest
when they reach him under a right angle, as at the equator. This is

not the case, the force with which they reach man, depends wholly
on the position the planets occupied at the place of birth, at the moment
of birth.

Action of the Aspects.

The planet that makes the strongest aspect with the Sun has espec-
ially to be taken into account in judging a horoscope, so has the
ruler of the ascendant.

The former often strongly influences the whole life. It is a generally
accepted rule that the Sun, placed stronger by sign or house than the

aspecting planet, is more favourable than when the latter is stronger
than the Sun. Just as with the aspects between a malefic and a benefic,
if with an aspect a benefic is posited the stronger, the aspect is more
favourable than when the malefic is thus posited.

The conjunction (d) of the Sun gives to every planet more power
to express itself and must therefore be regarded very favourable if it

occurs between planets of agreeable nature and in signs of a nature

agreeable to the planets. Even the tf of Sun and Saturn may be favou-
rable under certain circumstances e.g. in Capricorn this combination gives
power of will and calm perseverance, added to tact ; though Saturn
always weakens the vitality and denotes a tendency to melancholy. Like-
wise the & of the Sun and Mars. Though it makes the character too

impulsive, too hasty and too fiery, it gives also strength to the
character and to the body.

The A aspect brings prosperity and success in life without undue
exertion. It is a certain harmony we gained in former lives and which
now manifests as a favourable influence in our life.

The n aspect has the opposite significance. It is the limitations in

our life which we bring with us as wrong habits etc. resulting from
undeveloped or wrongly developed sides of our character.

The 8 aspect causes unexpected disappointments and separations,
through which we are sometimes compelled to direct our life otherwise.

If the bad aspects come from signs which one or both planets have



125

rule over or are exalted in, the bad influence of the aspect will be
much lessened by reason of that; and this is also the case when both
planets are in each 1

other's sign e.g. an opposition of $ in V and d in ==.

As we must give the character and action of an aspect briefly, it will
be impossible to show the relationship between the various qualities
mentioned. Roughness and abruptness cannot be avoided, but the reader
who has studied the foregoing, will understand with little difficulty.

The A, *, Y. aspects are indicated by F. (favourable).
The 8, n, , 0, "K aspects are indicated by U. (unfavourable).
The d and P. are given separately.
The Major aspects (tf, 8, A, ja, *, P.) are strong.
The Minor aspects (Z, Q. y 7\) are of less importance.

O and !) F- Very favourable to honour, health, acknowledgement, success,
harmony in general; for here personality and individuality are in harmony.
It gives success wherever feeling is concerned. It improves the entire horoscope.

O and 3). U. Bad for success and health, and unfavourable to popularity
sometimes even to honour and good name. It makes changeable, irresolute,

meddling and it gives an excess of self-confidence, self-overestimation.
Troubles with superiors and in domestic life.

O tf 3)- Is a favourable position for the morally highly developed man,
because here individuality and personality work as one force. Otherwise it

makes one-sided, careless, indifferent. This position is best, when the Q is

stronger placed than the 3).

O tf $ These planets can form no other aspect than the tf (viz. never
moves further than 28 from the Q.) Too close a conjunction is not favou-
rable to good action. The neighbourhood of the Sun (7 12) is favourable,
it gives intuition, makes witty and intelligent. Favourable for the memory and
the faculty of concentration.

O and $ F. Is a fortunate influence, brings popularity and gives attrac-
tion to the other sex, love, devotion, pleasant manners, artistic taste, also

longing after pleasures and company. Good-will and uprightness. Only the y
aspect (weak) can be formed.

O and $. U. Only the L aspect can be formed. Venus does not move
far enough away from the Sun to form a n (only 48). This weak aspect
denotes disappointments and weakens somewhat the moral force.

O d ? Indicates a tendency to run after pleasures, to being fond of

luxury and an easy life. For the rest it makes amiable, courteous and sympa-
thetic (further as under F.).

O and 1

d . F. Favourable to the vitality. Courageous, active, enterprising,
faithful and generous. Gives mental as well as physical strength. The native
has organising talent and feels attracted to vocations with a large responsibility.



126

O and cf. U. Impulsive, troublesome, irritable, assuming. Gives vitality,
but at the same time a propensity to inflammatory, feverish diseases with
rapid progress. This aspect and the next (d) indicate discord with superiors
and with the father and often an early death of the latter. The diseases are
sharp and acute. The passions are stronger than the will.

G) d cf denotes a strong, energetic will, but inclined to be dragged along
by passion. Danger of exaggeration and too impulsive. When the Q is placed
strongest, this position is more favourable. This should be noticed with all

aspects, but especiably with those of d*.

O and 2J.- F- Very favourable for everything ; for health as well as success
in business, love, religion, law-affairs and travelling. It refines the character,
gives hope and faith, makes philantropic, honest, generous, and ingenious.

O and %. U. Gives difficulties in social affairs, through religion and law,
makes superstitious, mistrustful, proud, arrogant, and is unfavourable to the
health.

O d" 2j.- Honest, generous and sympathetic, brings many opportunities in
life to progress morally and socially, help and success through superiors.
When 2J. is the stronger this position is less good, it brings pride and arro-

gance along with the good qualities.

and f?. F. Perseverance, tact and self-control, it makes methodical, con-
servative, active. Success through important posts, help and sympathy of elderly
people. This position gives much solid force to the character, organising talent.

Fit for occupying posts of a great responsibility.

O and ft. U. Bad for the health. It brings limitation in every direction

disappointments. It makes selfish, jealous, faint-hearted, miserly, spiteful, mali-
cious. It denotes disharmony with the father, superiors and in general with old

people. When the Sun is strongest, this position is improved.

O cf T? Gives organising talent; cold-blooded, unsympathetic, selfish,

patient, persevering but faint-hearted, timid, bad for the health. When the

O is strongest, it is much better.

O and #. F. Originality, sometimes genius, intuition, spirit of enterprise.
Fond of travelling and of antiquities and strongly attracted to public life. Very
independent. Inclines to occult study or pursuits.

O and Tfr. U. Unexpected and unforeseen obstacles and opposition
separations, estrangements, losses, sudden difficulties' and enmity.

O d * Revolutionary tendencies, very original and strong character
that experiences much opposition ; strong will and very independent. Intuitive.

O and 1. F. Gives width of vision, good taste, love of fine arts and
mysticism, aesthetic taste. It refines the emotions and feelings.

O and t. U. Danger of slander, swindle, deceit and great disappointments,
unpleasant dreams, trances.

Q cf ^. A strange character, psychic, often clair-voyant, chaotic psycho-
metric, clair-audiant, often strongly mystical tendencies. A misunderstood
character.



127

3) and . F. Very good for the intellect, quick perception, and right obser-
vation, good for all kinds of study. Alertness, quick-wittedness, adaptability.

1) and ^. U. Gives also rather good faculties, but changeable and super-
ficiaT irresolute, want of concentration, too independent and meets with
opposition.

3) tf . Much adaptability, changeable, quick and good intellect, witty,
intuitive.

3) and $. F. Prosperity and success through women, favourable to marriage
and family life but gives short-lived popularity. Pleasant, sympathetic perso-
nality, artistic, good-natured, an amourous nature.

1) and $. U. Careless, sentimental, vain, indolent, showy, sensuous. Troubles
in domestic life, sometimes divorce.

3) tf $ Happy life, love of ease, fond of pleasant surroundings, is esteemed
and loved, prosperous, somewhat effeminate and of an amourous nature.

3) and cf. F. Courageous, practical and enterprising, generous, energetic,
adventurous, positive in speaking and acting, capable but changeable.

3) and cf. U. Unfortunate aspect. Impulsive and hasty, irritable, want of

feeling, rude and unsympathetic, quarrelsome, adventurous, boastful. This
position brings inflammatory diseases, fever and wounds.

!> cf cf- Too impulsive, rash in action ; displays too much self-confidence ;

passionate etc.

3) and 2J.. F. Very fortunate aspect. Brings prosperity and success in every
direction. Honest and religious, upright and sympathetic, intuitive and progres-
sive, popular, philosophical.

3) and 2J.. U. Arrogant and careless, troubles and disappointments
through misplaced faith. Disagreements through religion and travelling. Often
gives liver complaint and plethora.

3) d 2|- Very favourable to success and prosperity; it brings powerful
friends ; generous, charitable, hopeful ; is esteemed and loved ; a good
aspect for body and spirit. Pleasant personality.

3) and ft. F. Tact, perseverance, patience, seriousness; economical,
organising talent and fitness to occupy confidential posts. Calm, imposing man-
ner. Reserved character.

J) and ft. U. Very unfavourable aspect, especially with woman. Brings
many difficulties and adversities. Depression, anxiety, care, weak health, indo-
lence. It makes the native mistrustful, apathetic, insensible, despondent, shy,
discontented, insincere experiencing limitation everywhere.

3) d ft- Is better than the preceding aspect. Much depends on the other

aspects. But here is also a tendency to melancholy, mistrust, discontent, seclusion
and insensibility.

}) and ^. F. Very favourable. An unusual life, full of change. Original
and occult inclinations. Love of travelling and great mental activity.



128

3) and $. U. Unfavourable. Sudden difficulties and changes, eccentricity,
strange conduct, irritable, very changeable ; inclined to a wandering life, roman-
tic, self-willed.

3) tf $. Very eccentric, nervous and changeable, great intuition, quick
intellect, inventiveness and inclination to become a reformer, a pioneer in

something new. He hates all convention, is progressive. Inclination to a
wandering life.

3) and ^. F. Attractive personality, sensitive, dreamy, sometimes very
artistic. Feels attracted to the sea. The spirit is very impressionable and the
native possesses a rich imagination.

3) and t$. U. Peculiar adversities and disillusions; dreamy, psychic, pecu-
liar, often unreliable. Given to drug taking. Danger of slander with man
a bad aspect for marriage.

3) d Dreamy, psychic, sensitive to impressions from higher worlds.
Visions, interpreting dreams. Very sensitive and changeable. Artistic, some-
times ingenious.

and $. F. Agreeable, cheerful, loves music or the fine arts, eloquent,
courteous, innocent feels attracted to young people.

The trine aspect cannot be formed.

and $. U. Only the L aspect can be formed. It is unfavourable for
artistic development, though the talent is often present.

y tf $. Amiable, pleasant, sympathetic character. Favourable for studying
music, fine arts, languages.

$ and cf. F. Quick and witty, sharp, positive ; sarcastic and alert, practical,
enthusiastic, energetic. Good speaker. Gives manual adroitness, a good
aspect for draughtsmen, etchers, engravers.

$ and (5- U. The same qualities, but with a disagreeable bent, exagge-
rating, sarcastic, impatient. Usually has no patience to listen, till another has
finished speaking. Is not on good terms with brothers and sisters.

rf d- Quick and alert, a tendency to socialistic materialism, enter-

prising, irritable, sharp, fond of argument and exaggeration.

$ and 2J.. F. Favourable to thinking and to travelling, good judgment,
philosophical spirit, righteous, reliable, upright, philanthropic, hopeful. Good
position for harmonious thinking, especially in religion, philosophy and literature.

^ and 2|.. U. Judgment not reliable, prejudiced in religion and law. Danger
of lawsuits etc. No opinion of his own, vacillating.

? cf 2J.- Very good aspect. Intuitive and hopeful, tolerant, content, just and
reliable, humane, devout, ingenious, moral and successful. A philosophical,
religious spirit.



129

$ and ft. F. Favourable to profound thought and study, methodical,
loving order, good memory, never superficial, serious and upright in friend-

ship. This position makes fit for all kinds of posts of confidence and for philo-
sophical studies. It gives a calm zeal, reserve, constancy, perseverance,
sometimes mistrust, slowness, indifference.

$ and ft. U. Quarrelsome, critical, jealous, discontented, revengeful, unfortu-
nate, melancholic, sombre, mistrustful. Peevish temper, grumbling, selfish and
faint-hearted. It gives many troubles, viz. difficulties arising from all that comes
under ^, such as travelling, younger brothers, literature etc.

^ d' ft. When the aspects to ft are good it makes profound and penetra-
ting, severe and critical, inclined to occult studies, very active and methodical
in everything. It gives further patience, tact, perseverance, frugality, however
with mistrust, selfishness and a tendency to criticism added, if ft is ill aspected.

and
P $:. F. Makes original, inventive, ingenious, capable of broad con-

ception; talent for metaphysics, chemistry, electricity, antiquities. This position
gives public speaking on the above mentioned subjects and on everything
relating to reform. Witty, intuitive.

$ and ]. U. Gives difficulties in above-mentioned matters. It makes very
self-willed, sarcastic, acute and irritable and creates much discord.

tf 1$. What is said of the favourable aspect holds good for this one,
but to a stronger degree; greater eccentricity is added quickness of thinking
and of penetrating into the most difficult problems of mechanics and electricity.

They are especially good speakers with strong inclination to occult studies
and like antiquities. With the low developed man these aspects of $: with ^
usually cause little more than a strange way of thinking and acting.

$ and ty. F. Makes idealistic, romantic, poetical. It refines the spirit. Favou-
rable to intuition, mediumism and the imagination.

$ and tjr. U. With a strong position in the horoscope this aspect makes
the lower type vague, dreamy and unpractical, often sensual, inclined to klep-
tomania, swindling, sickliness in some form or other.

^ d ^- Can make the low developed man unpractical, strange, vague and
dreamy, and give in a sense the same tendencies as above; but with the

highly developed man the conjunction causes highly artistic taste or genius.
Usually a strong inclination to mysticism.

and tf. F. Adventurous, enterprising, amourous, seeking pleasures and
society; generous, sometimes sensuous, bold and careless. The aspects of $
with tf and $: often lead to an early and precipitated marriage.

$ and cf . U. Impulsive and inconstant, sensuous and vain. Love of pleasures,
little self-esteem, careless, prodigal. There is danger of divorce or troubles with

partner or wife (husband). With woman it is unfavourable from the moral

standpoint. With this aspect the moral standpoint in particular should be
considered.

9



130

1

$ d d ' Passionate, amourous, vain, sentimental, inconstant. The same as
the preceding aspect, with both much depends on whether $ or tf is the
stronger planet as to house and sign.

$ and QJ.. F. Very good aspect. Improves the entire horoscope by the
purifying influence this aspect has on the emotions and feelings. Signifies
success in life. Kind, generous, religious, upright and virtuous. Usually much loved.

$ and Qj.. U. Vain and ostentatious, arrogant, generous without need and
often chasing doubtful pleasures. His ostentation often causes him to live
above his means.

$ tf Qj.. A very good aspect; it makes idealistic, pure, happy, upright,
humane. It brings great harmony and contentment.

$ and ft. F. Chaste and demure, calm, constant in love, upright, careful
and faithful. Help and support from the father and from old people. Good for
finance and business in general.

$ and ft. U. Brings unhappiness in love and in married life. This aspect
demoralises, brings grief and trouble through and with women. It makes
pusillanimous, unchaste, jealous, sometimes perverse, weak. Is worst with man.

$ cf ft- Restricts and binds the character, spoils Venus' good influence
and makes gloomy, melancholic and often gives perverse inclinations ; sympathy
for old people. Worst with man. With these aspects much depends on the
strength of the two planets.

$ and $i. F. Gives love for the occult sciences and a talent for music
and singing; many friends among occultists. The aspects of $ with 1$. and <$
often lead to an early and precipitate marriage. Original and inventive.

$ and 9- U. Usually causes difficulties with the other sex. Gives sometimes
strange inclinations and wonderfully liberal conceptions regarding love and
conjugality. Makes jealous and gives an attraction to all that is strange and
singular.

$ d &. Gives often artistic taste, especially dramatic; strengthens the
emotions and the imagination. Is unfortunate for marriage, usually leads to
divorce. Peculiar tendencies. Sensual. If $ is the stronger this aspect is much
more favourable.

$ and 1. F. and cf. Gives universal love of mankind and devotion. Very
favourable and refining influence on highly developed natures. With the lower
developed man it strengthens the sensuous emotions.

$ and 1#. U. Singular sympathies, often abnormalities in feelings and
emotions; often love of art.

rf and F.
2J.- Energetic, courageous, enthusiastic, and earnest. This aspect

is not very important.

cf and 2j.. U. The only enemy to 2|. is d", so d* spoils somewhat the good



131

2j.-influence. It makes sceptical, rude, atheistic, prodigal, morose. The body
often suffers in consequence of excessive function of the part in which this

aspect occurs.

<3 tf Sj.. Courageous, enthusiastic, supercilious etc., like the preceding aspect.

d and ft. F. Gives courage joined with tact, self-reliance; help of supe-
riors. For the rest not important.

<5 and ft. U. Selfish, cruel and treacherous, malicious, violent, revengeful.
According as cf or ft are the stronger, the bad qualities of the one show
stronger than those of the other, (see tf.)

cf of ft in which aspect the qualities of both planets occur simultaneously.
Very bad when they form unfavourable aspects to Q> D or me ^^ * me
ascendant. It makes depraved and bold, extravagant and miserly. Both aspects
with ft denote disharmony with the father and often mean a sudden death.

tf and l. F. Enterprising and original, intuitive and inventive. Love of

antiquities. Travelling. In succeedent and in cadent houses this aspect is felt

but little.

cf and $. U. The same with this. It makes irritable, rude and prignacious,
restless and eccentric, rebellious. Often sudden adversities.

tf tf 1L. The same qualities as in both the above but in a less disagreeable
shape. Much latent force, which, used wrongly, may become very dangerous
in its expression.

1

d and ty. F. Gives a peculiar attraction to the character, strong emotions,

cf and 1. U. Changeable temper, irritable, discontented and rebellious.

tf tf tjf. Inclines to egoism, brings sometimes chaotic visions, strong emo-
tions. With the lower type this aspect gives aptitude for swindling.

2J. and ft. F. Love of profound study; it makes philosophic, serious, upright,
constant and reliable. A very favourable aspect for success in life and for a
wordly position; harmony with the father.

% and ft. U. Weak will, irresolute, intolerant or indifferent in religion and
often unhappy and mistrustful many adversities and changes of fortune,
disharmony with the father.

2|. d ft- Very favourable aspect. Makes thoughtful, philosophic, serious,
careful, honest, thrifty and reliable. Also as under F.

QJ. and $:. F. Peculiar charm of personality. Favourable aspect for intuition.
Broad and progressive in the religious and political spheres.

2|. and $. U. May come into unpleasant association with the court of
justice; it indicates little success as regards study and activities denoted
by Uranus.



132

2J. of iff.. Very good influence for intuition and inspiration and for occult
and religious study. It gives artistic talent, especially dramatic.

21. and t. F. Kind and generous. Broad conceptions and feelings regarding
love of mankind; genius. Only very few, however, can answer the high Nep-
tune-influence.

2J. cf ^. The preceding, stronger however and with an added sensitiveness
towards art and deep religious feelings, especially in a mystical or magical
direction. Sometimes genius in this sphere. It is the best aspect one can ima-
gine for a mystic.

2J. an t. U. Gives the same tendencies, but brings disappointment, strange
experiences, loss of and estrangement from friends.

ft and $. F. Intuitive, altruistic, occult, upright and broad of conception,
strong faculty of concentration.

ft and T&. U. Adversities through want of opportunities or impotence to
use them. Fits of ill temper, eccentric and singular.

ft tf $:. Inventive, intelligent, strong power of concentration, firmly resol-

ved, pushful, reserved.

ft and i. F. Gives power of concentration and a certain shrewdness;
tenacity and coolness.

ft and t. U. Selfish and cold, revengeful and suspicious; strange
troubles through secret enmity; harmful to good name and position.

ft <^ t. Is in between favourable and unfavourable, often an elevation or

degradation of the mental nature.

l and ^. Too little is known of the reciprocal action of these two planets,
to be able to make definite statements about it. A good aspect is sure to be
a favourable aspect for studying occult and out of the way, unconventional
matters.

General notice.

It should ever be borne in mind in judging the aspects, that the action
is more favourable when the stronger of the aspecting planets is a benefic,
or when the planet denoting the higher qualities, is the stronger. When
it is the other way about, the action is more unfavourable.



133

The Ruler ol the Horoscope.

The ruler of the sign on the cusp of the ascendant is usually the
ruler of the horoscope i.e. the ruling planet of the sign that is rising at

the moment of birth has a great influence on the native's life. In some
cases the ruler is a planet that occupies a strong place in the horoscope
as in M.C. or ascendant. In any case a planet in the ascendant is the
sub-ruler of the horoscope. If more than one rise, the strongest posited
planet is taken to be it, e.g. the one that rises in its own sign or in a
harmonious sign, especially if it forms a strong aspect to Sun or
Moon, it has great influence. The same holds good for any planet in M.C.

Thus in our example horoscope (p. 27) the 3), as ruler of the ascen-
1

dant, will be the ruler of the horoscope with d in M.C. and in 8 to the

]), as sub-ruler. So these are the two planets that exercise the greatest
influence on the life. Regard as ruler only in very exceptional cases,

though it is on the cusp of the ascendant, as in this case. # likewise.
The nature of the planet that plays the part of ruler, denotes the

native's general character and his tendencies, taken into consideration
with the ascendant and the position of Q, 1) and .

The ruler takes the good and the bad qualities of the sign in which
it is placed and of the planets aspecting it, e.g. in this case the Moon

1

receives good aspects from r) and $:, but an 8 from d , which becomes
even more 1

pronounced by the parallel 3) and d . The same is the case
with the sub-ruler d", it receives good aspects from r), # and together
with the afflictions through the Moon.

The position of the ruler with good aspects and without strong afflictions:

in 1. Success in life by own merit and effort.

in 2. Success in financial matters.
in 3. Success through study, travelling, relatives.
in 4. Occult tendencies, home-ties.
in 5. Love of pleasures, children, gain through speculation, much

vitality.
in 6. Gain through inferiors or being an esteemed inferior oneself,
bad health with affliction.

in 7. Gain through partnership or marriage; strong opponents
with affliction.

in 8. Inheritances, tendency to occultism.
in 9. Philosophical, good intellect, many journeys and success through

them. May rise high.
in 10. The best position for success in life, ambitions realised.
in 11. Success and gain through friends, strong aspirations.
in 12. Limitating position. Bound on all sides. Tendency to occultism.

The best positions for the ruler is in 1, 10, 9, 11, 7, 5.

The most unfavourable positions for the ruler is in 12, 6, 8.



134

If the ruler is badly aspected in the various houses, expect diffi-

culties in the matters denoted by the house.
A strong influence on life have:
1. Any planets in M. C. and Asc. or within 12 above cusp 1 (as

in the 12th house).
2. The planet that in the horoscope has the most powerful aspects.
3. Always the O, D, and g.
4. The planet ruling the sign in which the O and 3) are at birth.

Planets in Strong or in Weak Positions.

Sign of strength: good aspects, especially to benefics, planets
in own sign, in own house, in an angular house, on a cusp,
exalted, in harmonious sign.

Sign of weakness: bad aspects, especially to malefics and no help
from benefics, planets in their fall or detriment, in a cadent house,
D 2

*) or R} ). By weak is also meant the receiving of bad or no aspects,
and strong is taken in the sense of receiving good aspects.

Strongly posited does not always mean harmonious; nor does
weakly posited mean unharmonious when

; namely the planet is strongly
posited but unharmonious aspected, the expression is even more unhar-
monious than it would be in a weak position.

3) strong, Receptive, ingenious, thoughtful, domestic, changeable, of

great adaptability.
,/^ 3) weak, Weak character, superficial and whimsical, childish, chan-

geable, conceited and pedantic.

/ O strong, Honourable, loyal and of good repute.
O weak, Despotic, supercilious, haughty, despicable.

strong, Intellectual, receptive, sharp, alert, quick, witty, scientific,

good memory.
$ weak, Often a good adaptability, sometimes artistic but careless,

little power of concentration, forgetful, inconstant.

$ strong, Chaste, sympathetic and elegant, artistic, having good taste,

contented, loving.
J $ weak, Indolent and fond of ease, thoughtless, pleasure-seeking,

disorderly, lewd, dissolute.

cf strong, Active, courageous, combative, energetic, strong, adven-
turous, passionate and pushful, impulsive.

^/ d weak, Irritable, impatient, impulsive, and argumentative, sensuous.

/ 2|. strong, Generous, jovial, philantropic, honest and true.

2J. weak, Arrogant, prodigal, profligate, hypocritical, unjust.

!) By D. or dead is meant "without velocity", viz. at the moment when the

planet after having been progressing, becomes retrogressing, or the reverse.

2) See footnote p. 53.



135

ft s/rom/, Tactful, prudent, diplomatic, accurate, economical, reserved,
serious, regular, sober, patient.

ft weak, Miserly, melancholic, unhappy, plodding, slow, suspicious,
sceptical, faint-hearted, mean, cold, unfeeling.

ft strong, Inventive, original, intuitive, talented, clairvoyant, occult
tendency.

# weak, Strange and eccentric, showy, silly, peculiar and sudden
movements, romantic.

t strong, Idealistic, artistic, psychic, mystical, ingenious.
weak, Sensitive and dreamy, vague.

Intellect, Memory and Character.

Though all planets influence the intellect, in judging it, Mercury and
the Moon have in the first place to be considered. For a good, harmo-
nious expression Mercury and the Moon must be linked by an aspect
A bad aspect between the two planets gives adaptability as well as a
good aspect, but in this first case the adaptability is attended with
changeability and difficulty in concentration.

The position of ]) and close to many other planets, also denotes
great changeability of tendency and in thought. It usually indicates

versatility.
In the ascendant Mercury gives a talent for speaking in public, in

M.C. also, though to a less degree, but in both it depends on the
aspects. The nature of the aspecting planets will give the tendency of
the intellect, but at the same time note the ascendant, the position of
Sun and Moon as regards house and sign, as by these the type of cha-
racter and the nature of the feelings is given, which may modify the

tendency otherwise denoted by Mercury. Moreover the zodiacal sign in
which is posited, should be taken into account e.g. the saturnine sign
rtT will impart earnestness and frugality to the expression of Mercury.

In judging, the intuition should assist our intellect. The signs W or
n rising is favourable to the intellect, especially if the ruler of these
signs, Mercury, is well placed as regards house (e.g. in 1, 10, 3, 9, 11)
or sign (W, n, V, 25, n\, :=).

The worst signs for g are DC and ,?.

It is favourable when $ receives good aspects from the other planets.
Especially good aspects from the 3rd and the th house (houses of
the lower (n) and the higher (,?) intellect) and from the ascendant
are favourable.

Mars with ^gives smartness, sharpness, energy, Uranus gives origi-

nality, Saturn deep thought and retentive memory, but, with affliction,

melancholy ; Jupiter gives a sound judgment and love of right and justice ;

Neptune love of mysticism, at times ingenuity Venus makes the
; spirit



136

agreeable, amiable, gives love of pleasure, society, and a tendency for art.

The Moon gives in bad as well as in good aspect, a clear intellect
with a quick adaptability, in the first case it brings also changeabil-
ity, and a tendency to speak untruthfully.

The Sun gives magnanimity to the character if it aspects Mercury
well. Too near to the Sun (this is called combust) is disadvantageous
to a clear, wide many-sided expression of the intellect. It is good for
to be in the vicinity of the O but not nearer than 7.

Bad aspects with these planets give the same qualities to the intel-

lect, but with a bad side to them, as is seen under the description of
the aspects (see p. 125 130) of $. Uranus also has much to do with the
intellect, amj if if is ahnye trip hnriynn anH Mommy ic nnrigy jt nnp

r

might judge the intpllpr.t from its aspfrfs T just as frpm fhnsp nf Mprrnry^
For the nature of the feelings as evidenced in thought, take the sign

and the aspects of Moon and Ascendant Good aspects of Saturn to
the Moon, Venus or Ascendant, gives strength to overcome the senses
and so to rise high mentally. Bad aspects of the planets, especially of
the malefics to these, denote the reverse.

The strongest planet in the horoscope, e.g. in M. C. or ascendant
should be considered in judging the nature and the tenor of the intellect,
as it often colours the whole life of the native.

Marriage, Friendship, Enmity etc.

For these we must study the house of friends (llth), the house of
the open enemies 1

) (7th) and of the secret enemies 2
) (12th).

Benefics in these houses and Sun or Moon well aspected, is very
favourable; malefics and also the benefics, or Q 3) or 5? in these
houses ill aspected denote the reverse, e.g. a planet in the ascendant
receiving a bad aspect of from 7, signifies opposition from open
enemies of the character of Mercury, as authors, publishers, public
speakers etc. A bad aspect of the O indicates opposition from influen-
tial men etc.

The kind of friends is denoted by planets in the llth house, and
should there be none, by the ruler of the sign on the cusp.
O denotes friends of important position and friends that have to do

with government or occupy public posts.

!) Open enemies are those who in their own opinion, speak the truth; we
might therefore consider them to be our true friends. If e.g. husband and wife are
not in harmony, they will tell each other the truth, frankly according to their own
limited insight, which may help to polish the sharp edge of dissension, thus har-
mony may rise out of strife. Alas ! an open enemy seldom becomes a true friend,
in choosing separation (opposition aspect) one does not learn his lesson (the real
union of opposites as two halves make a whole) and thus one aggravates
his karma.

2
) Secret or unseen enemies that do not attack us openly, but in underhanded

ways, and behind our backs.



137

3) denotes friends among the common people, also travellers,
seamen etc.

denotes scientific friends, orators, writers, publishers, printers,
teachers, younger people.

21. denotes friends connected with religion and law, e.g. lawyers,
judges, clergymen, bankers also.

c? military men, ironmongers, instrument-makers, surgeons, butchers,
barbers, dentists, chemists.

r) farmers, all those that have to do with building as carpenters,
masons, miners, mineralogists, older people, etc.

$ artists, especially musicians, poets, actors, jewellers, and all that
have to do with dress, ornaments and perfumes.

# and t denote friends studying occultism and mysticism ; they give
something peculiar to the nature of the friendship and they usually
denote a sudden and strange end to ties of friendship.

Good aspects of Q|. and $ and the Q in the 7th house, will make
the native popular.

Malefics in 12, always denote secret persecution and if they are
also ill aspected, imprisonment is not impossible it

; may mean a tem-
porary seclusion from the world. An affliction in the 12th house from
4 denotes slander from people in near surroundings.

Two horoscopes may be compared together and the reason why here
is sympathy and there antipathy may be found.

Indications for sympathy are: the same nature as ascendant, i.e.

both a fiery sign, both an earthy sign, both an airy sign, both a watery
sign rising. A good aspect between the two ascendants is also favour-
able. The same position of Sun or Moon or both or interchanging of
the two, as the 3) m one horoscope in the place of the Q in the other,
or the reverse. This is especially very good for harmony in marriage.

Good aspects between and 3) in both horoscopes are favourable
to friendship.

r? and # in bad aspect to $ always gives delay in marriage,
often, especially with woman, the marriage is definitely prevented.

$ very weak and very afflicted denotes a single life or a very
unhappy marriage.

The O m the horoscope of the woman denotes the man.
The ]) in the horoscope of the man denotes the woman. The planet

to which these luminaries approach first, in strong aspect, indicates the
husband (wife). If there is a planet in the 7th house, take that
to be the indicator of the husband (wife).

cf in harmonious aspect to $ always gives strong attraction to the
other sex.

Mars with woman in the place of Venus with man, will cause very
strong attraction, but with D or 8 aspect of these two planets, hatred
and enmity will result. Favourable aspects may mitigate this disharmony.



138

ft and ^ in 7 and also the sign ^ on cusp 7, (7 ruled by Saturn),
causes delay in marriage and with affliction, great disappointments in

matrimonial affairs.

A malefic in bad aspect to $ gives low morality, and in an angular
house this affliction may give rise to political scandal.

A malefic on the ascendant or on the place of the O or 3) f

another horoscope, gives rise to disharmony and strife.

A benefic, on the other hand, gives harmony.
A benefic in an angular house is always good for popularity, the

O and I) likewise, provided they are not badly aspected.
When the ruler of the ascendant or the planet in the ascendant

receives bad aspects, it denotes that the native
" himself is the cause of

ffie disharmony indicated T5yit
For harmony and disharmony especially notice the ascendants of the

two horoscopes. If they are in good aspect, there will be harmony, if

not, disharmony. With the opposition, it is the reverse, if the two people
are of different sex, for then there is attraction (e.g. between Q. and :s).

A malefic, coming by progression to the place of Asc. Sun or Moon
in another horoscope, gives temporary repulsion; the same with oppo-
sition and square aspect and also when Sun or Moon by progression
come to the place of a malefic or a bad aspect to it but the

; progres-
sion to 2|. or $ in another horoscope gives friendship.

He whose planet comes by progression to the place of another's

planet, or in aspect to it, will be the one to promote the attraction or

repulsion.
Every planet that aspects the Sun or the Moon badly, might be

regarded as an enemy and from its position as to sign and house, we
might discover how it will enter into and affect our life.

For the enemies indicated by a malefic in 7, 12 or 4, afflicting the
Sun or the Moon, and weakly posited, one should especially be on one's

guard; this position causes continuous persecution and trouble.
With sympathy and antipathy the ascendant should be considered e.g.

if the father has a benefic (Q|. or $) in the ascendant of his child's

horoscope, he will be a support to his child in every way and help
him on, physically as well as spiritually but if the father has a

; malefic
e.g. ft in the ascendant of his child's horoscope his influence will not be a
help to the child, however much he might wish it. There is, as it were,
an unsurmountable wall or partition between them. If, however, the
relative positions of the other planets are favourable, much of the evil

may be taken away.
The passing by progression of a malefic through the ascendant of

another is also usually a time ot misunderstanding and enmity,
stronger than the passing of the radical malefic by the progressive
planets of the other.

An affliction through a malefic becomes stronger if the malefic is

nearer the Zenith than the afflicted planet e.g. ft G 3) is a very bad



139

aspect, especially for business people; but it becomes still worse when
ft is exalted above the D.

Health and Disease.

We have seen how the different signs rule the different parts of
the body and that each planet itself, also has a special influence on
certain parts of the body. The signs, therefore, in which the Sun (with
man) and the Moon (with woman) receive afflictions, indicate that part
of the body that is liable to suffer. The Q w *m man, the D with woman
is the indicator of strong or weak health. If these afflictions occur in
the western half of the horoscope (especially in 6), they are more
serious than in the eastern half.

Saturn in bad aspect to the luminaries (Sun and Moon) greatly
weakens the health by preventing influx of prana or vitality (O).

Mars gives vitality, but also gives a tendency to inflammatory and
feverish attacks.

Jupiter in bad aspect to O causes impure blood and superfluous and
irregular circulation in the part indicated by the sign; also liver com-
plaint and obesity.

Uranus ill-aspecting the luminaries, has a less disturbing effect on
the health of the body than on the mental functions (hysteria, spasms).
It produces fear, hypochondria and usually incurable affections.

Mercury's afflictions are expressed as nervousness and faint-heartedness,

speech-impediments, such as stammering, lisping; and also ailments of
the part represented by the signs in which the affliction takes place.
When the Q receives bad aspects from both ft and d", the health is

better than with affliction through ft only, but as a rule the death is

sudden, either through an attack of illness or through an accident. This
is especially the case with eastern positions; western positions usually
gives illness of long duration,

According to Ptolomy strong afflictions of both "]) and $ denote an
early death of the mother, and both O and ft afflicted, an early death
of the father.

A malefic in the ascendant is bad for the health onty if ' ]1 ag fp
pftr f*

Trie ascendant strongly afflicted is a sign of bad health, especially
x

if it is hyleg. )

In judging the health of woman we take the Moon instead of the

Sun, it should be borne in mind that an inharmonious aspect be-
tween D and $ is very bad for the health, seeing that it has a weakening
effect on the constitution. If an inharmonious aspect of d or ft is added,
this combined influence will make the health very indifferent. With
woman Mars has a more disturbing influence upon the health than
Saturn, because its action is much more opposed to that of the Moon
than Saturn's.

i) See p. 151.



140

Accidents, also sudden death, are especially indicated by afflictions

in the eastern half, principally in the angles or on the cusps. This
is especially denoted if both Q and D are afflicted by one or more
malefics. The nature of the wound etc., is indicated by the nature of
the planet e.g.

d gives wounds through sharp instruments, through fire or acids,

explosions, operations etc.;

ft through bruising, suffocation; Saturn causes calcification, tuberculosis ;

# through electricity, sun-stroke, machinery, suicide;
tp produces trances, mortification, infection and may cause death

through these.
The signs give further indication viz. fiery signs: electricity, heat;

airy signs: gases; watery signs: fluids, water etc. earthy signs: all things
connected with minerals, earth, mines etc.

If 2J. or $ helps by a good aspect, the prognostication is more
favourable.

The nature of the disease can be determined by the sign, by the
house, by the planets, and also by the nature of the signs.

The sign on cusp 6 will denote the diseases the native is specially
subject to, viz.,

Fixed signs (K &, HI, ~), denote diseases of throat, nose, heart,
the genitals, the bladder; mutable signs (n ttp, ^, 3C) enteralgia and
affection of the lungs e.g. tuberculosis, dropsy, scrofula, neurotic disease,
muscular pains ; cardinal signs (V, 23, ==, 1&) stomach complaint, mental
disorders, liver-affections, disease of the kidneys, biliousness, fevers,

apoplexy, congestion, cutaneous diseases and diseases of the bones (%).
Serious suffering is indicated when one falls ill or has an accident

at the moment when the Moon is in c/, Q, 8 or P. to Mars or Saturn,
or on the place of one of these planets at birth. Mars gives high fevers,
Saturn weakness. $: will give strange symptoms and complications in

such a case.
It is favourable when the Moon at that moment is in good aspect

to Jupiter or Venus, (unless these planets are strongly afflicted), con-
valescence is sure to follow, however severe the illness may be.

It is dangerous to undergo an operation on a day when the D is

in the sign representing the part of the body that has to be operated
upon. Cardan says that it is dangerous to operate upon a patient, when
the Moon is within 17 of the Sun and in opposition to Mars.

(See also the Chapter on Astrology and Medicine).

p The Calling.

The Wtk, house, its ruler, the planets in it, the position of and its

aspects, the \iscendant, should be especially noted here. The Sun and
the Moon have of course also a great influence, and their aspects,
particularly any planet in conjunction with, or aspecting, the Sun and



141

the M.C. In the list given below will be found the nature of the callings
that come under the different planets; and by studying the sign in

which the indicator of the calling is posited, one can come to a con-
clusion. If e.g. is in M. C. (the house of calling), one might expect
an intellectual career, writing, teaching, study etc.; if ? is in an airy
sign, love of literature and art may be expected, in yz an inclination
to occultism. The aspects of here will indicate a great deal; e.g. in

cT or A to ^ the native will feel attracted to astrology, psychology,
chemistry or metaphysics; a good aspect to d will give him dexterity
and make him a good mechanic, engraver, instrumentmaker and adapted
for other such-like callings. A good aspect of r> gives a tendency to

callings that have to do with the earth, such as those of mining-
engineers, miners, architects, building-contractors, geologers, brickmakers ;

Sj. in aspect to $ gives lawyers, bankers, philosophers, clergymen and
all employment under government. Mercury in aspect to will give
love of art and callings that have to do with ornaments, perfumes,
ladies wear etc.

Mercury in aspect to t gives a tendency to mysticism and makes
the spirit idealistic like #. T&. always imparts something original.

Many planets in watery signs gives callings that are related to the
element of water; fiery signs, to mechanics and employments in which the
element of fire, and iron play a part. In the same way we may con-
sider the influence of many planets in earthy and airy signs (air
intellectual work, earth manual labour).

Many planets in fixed signs favours employment that requires con-
stant, patient activity, more than intellect and dexterity. Cardinal signs
callings in which the native is in some degree the leader, while mutable
signs are best suited to inferior positions; therefore note in judging,
how many, and which, planets are placed in the different signs.

The position of the planets that aspect the planet in M. C. from
different houses, enlighten us further and also the house in which
9 is placed.

Gemini, Sagittarius and Pisces, the double-bodied signs, give dual

callings, several occupations or interest in many matters at one time.
The secondary influence should be considered, e.g. placed in 3

and in DC gives us as secondary influence that of the 12th house (DC),
i.e. in 3, an intellectual house, (the house of n) would indicate love
of intellectual work and the sign (3C) 9 is in, shows the direction of thought
and work will be in 12th house affairs, viz. sanatoria, prisons, secret

enterprises, and that there is a tendency to mysticism.
Bad aspects in 10 from 7, especially of malefics denote opposition

of the general public, so far as professional or business matters are
concerned and from 12, secret opposition and enmity in business
affairs.

Many planets above the earth give fewer difficulties in practising
the calling than if the majority of planets are below.



142

Callings under the Different Planets.

The Sun: Kings, monarchs, high-born people, people holding a high
position, in general people who occupy a prominent position and
are the centre of a large circle; also, jewellers and all the various

goldworkers.
Moon: Seamen, fishers, travellers, merchants in fluids, sellers in pu-

blic, nurses etc.

Mercury: Authors, public speakers, literary men, drawing-teachers,
clerks, post-officials, publishers, carriers, editors, booksellers, etc.

Venus: Artists, such as musicians, poets, painters, sculptors all those
;

dealing in ornaments, ladies-fineries, art, perfumes, millinery; also con-
fectioners, female servants etc.

Mars: Military men, iron-mongers, instrument-makers, surgeons, den-
tists, gymnasts, barbers, smiths, butchers, cooks etc.

Jupiter: Judges, lawyers, clergymen, merchants with dealings abroad,
bankers, traders in woollen articles; people occupying posts of con-
fidence.

Saturn : Dealers and agents in land, notaries, accountants, mining
engineers, coal-merchants, plumbers, printers, funeral-undertakers, shoe-
makers, watchmen, miners, potters, house painters, brick-manufacturers.

Uranus: Travellers, inventors, engineers, mechanicians, chemists,
especially electricians, aeronauts, hypnotisers, psychologers, occultists,

phrenologists, astrologers, public speakers, all kinds of idealistic people
and brain-eccentric people.

Neptune: Callings in which the watery element plays a part; further

artists, mystics, psychologers, all kinds of idealists and emotionally-
eccentric people.

Travelling.

Many planets in 3 and 9 (especially & D, d, $) give a tendency
to travelling. Further also when there are many planets in cardinal and
in mutable signs or in watery signs. Also when on cusp 3 or 9 there
is a mutable sign or 23 or DC.

Saturn in asc. or in the above-mentioned houses may neutralise these
influences and give instead a desire for a fixed abode.

The 3) in aspect to Uranus from one of the angles produces always
many and sudden changes.

Many planets in cadent houses (3, 6, 9, 12) also indicate a wande-
ring life.

The same is the case when Mars, Uranus or Mercury are strongly
placed, and aspect the Sun or Moon.

The place where to go is indicated by the position of the benefics
2|. and $. If these are posited in the houses 3 and 5, near to the native

place in 2 and 6, to places further distant in 1 and 7 in
; ; neigh-



143

bouring countries, in 8 and 12 to countries far away and to the antipodes.
The direction is indicated by the house in which the benefics are,

or by O and 3), provided they are well-aspected. House 1 denotes
the East, house 10 the South, house 4 North,, house 7 West, while the
intermediate houses denote the intermediate directions. If the benefics are
ill aspected in those houses, another direction is indicated. If neither 2J.,

nor $ are well aspected, take a planet that receives good aspects of O
or }) K there is a benefic in the 4th house, or Sun or Moon are well
aspected in it, it is advisable to remain in the native country. If despite
this indication the native makes long journeys, he will miss the best

opportunities to progress.
The native with a fairly harmonious horoscope, will usually choose

unconsciously, intuitively, the correct direction in which his fortune lies.

Astrology helps one to do this consciously. If we note the direction
taken by world-travellers etc., it is usually found that they, totally
ignorant of their horoscope, have gone in the direction their horoscope
indicated.

According to Sepharial we might trace how life in a foreign country
will go on, if we add the longitude of the place to the M. C. of the birth-

horoscope (if the place lies East) and with this new M. C., according
to the table of houses for the place, we cast a new horoscope, in which we
insert the planets according to the degrees in the radix-horoscope.
(Subtract if the place lies West). As long as the native remains in this

place, he must trace the directions and the transits that work in the
new figure. He should go to that place where according to this method
the best influences of the birth-horoscope come in the new one to
their finest expression. If we remain in our own country, the choice of
the house, as regards locality and direction, is of much importance.
A cardinal sign rising as ascendant denotes a high place e.g. the top
of a hill, or in any case above sea-level. A fixed sign indicates an
abode in the plain. A mutable sign would indicate a low lying place*
or one between other houses i.e. not conspicuous.

If the cusp of 4 (the abode) is V, the front of the house should
face East; if it is s$ North; == West, and if it is % South. For the
intermediate signs, the resp. directions.

By acting consciously we might bring ourself into harmonious
contact with the magnetic conditions of the surroundings.
We need not make ourselves dependent on them, which might

happen if we exaggerated the importance of the above-given informations
regarding abode etc.



144

Judging the Horoscope.

Birth Horoscope for the Hague, May 16 - 1913. 7.50 a.m.

When analysing the horoscope we should set to work systematically.
We begin to note down how many and which planets are placed in

cardinal, fixed and mutable signs (p. 33).
Next, which planets are in fiery, earthy, airy and watery signs (p. 33).
Thirdly which planets are in exaltation by sign (p. 52, 85) and which

are exalted by position houses (p. 105) or aspects (p. 75).
Fourthly which are in their fall or in detriment (p. 51).
Fifthly one should note the declinations (Parallels) (p. 18, 82) of all

planets and calculate the aspects (p. 75). In an easy and simple manner
we might comprise everything in a table, like the one following below,
in which the data of the above horoscope are indicated.

One should never read mechanically what any position of the planets,
of Asc. or. M. C. etc. means. Consider attentively what the strong chief
influences in the horoscope are, and what the weaker, subservient
influences. The former give the key-note, which by the latter can be
only modified.



145

Birth-scheme May 16th 1913, 7.50 a. m. The Hague (male).

Signs



146

Taurus, in which the Sun and Mercury are placed. (O in V, p. 113;
in V, p. 120). These make the character more practical and constant

and add power of will and a feeling of self-reliance. This help is greater
as the Sun is favourably aspected to the ascendant and Neptune (O A ip,

p. 126 ;O A Asc., p. 102). The Sun is very well aspected in the same
house, so great help of friends may be expected (p. 136V

It is not to be considered that all is harmony in the house of friends

(XI, p. 90), for 9 receives a strong D aspect from Uranus ($ D #,
p. 129), from the 8th house. Uranus being in its own sign Aquarius
is favourable; but being retrograde it weakens the first advantage
somewhat (p. 52).

So he will experience troubles from friends that study a branch of
occultism (T&. in VIII, p. 122) and there can be no doubt about which
branch it is, for the sign Cancer as ascendant denotes great sensitive-
ness and mediumship (Asc. 25, p. 41), while Neptune adds its great ten-

dency to mysticism and mediumship. Friends that are spiritualists will
induce him to become developed as a medium and his troubles will
be endless.

He receives, however, very strong help, which will turn him away
from his first hobby that gives him no satisfaction. A

(T? 3), p. 127, 1? A
$: p. 132). The latter aspect denotes love for occult sciences and the
former endows him with profound thinking and brings more stability
to his thoughts. We might rightly assume that he, as soon as his first

curiosity is satisfied, will turn away from spiritism or spiritualism in

order to seek along the occult, scientific way that which his inborn

longing drives him to.

# (p. 65) will act here in the sense that it lessens the tendency to
imitation that 25 gives, and makes the character more original, though
at the same time supporting d in the strong tendency to impulsive

1

action (3) 8 d . p. 127). I? (p. 63) on the other hand, brings more tact and
thoughtfulness Q) A T?, p. 127). The strong position of cf in V and in M.C. in

8 and P. 3) (d* ruler of V) denotes strongly enough great impulsiveness
and a strong feeling of independence, which will cause the native many
difficulties in his calling (10th house, p. 86) and threatens his honour and
good name with danger. But ft and placed in the house of friends
warrant the help of old people (r?, p. 63) and of acquaintances
among younger people (, p. 57). Moreover # from 8 is in sextile aspect
to <3 (p. 131) from which we conclude that he is helped in his difficulties

by his wife's or his partner's money (8th house is 2nd from 7th, p. 92).
i&. is IV but for the rest is not badly posited in the house of Scorpio.
$: is in its own sign Aquarius, so that being retrograde here will mean :

postponement or delay of expected help.
The 3) receives the affliction from Mars (]) 8 d, p. 127) in the 4th

house (p. 123) and as neither 2|. $ , nor O send it a good aspect,
the good aspects coming from the malefics only we may derive that
he will have domestic troubles and that his surroundings in general will



147

not be harmonious. It denotes a less agreeable old age, lighted however
by profound intellectual work and study concerning the mysteries of life

and evolution A
(1? j$, p. 132).

The only weak planet in this horoscope is Venus, which has its

detriment in Aries ($ in V, p. 52), and is moreover without motion (D.).
Moreover Venus receives bad aspects from Neptune ($ n ^, p. 130) and
from the ascendant. The weak semi-sextile to O will De of little avail
here. Venus (in V) on the cusp of the llth house is scarcely indicative
of good terms with female acquaintances. Venus in Aries however helps
to fortify his idealism ($ in V, p. 120).

The ascendant (p. 102) is also rather ill aspected ; it receives a sex-
tile from the Sun, but a n aspect from Venus, an 8 from Jupiter, and a
L from Saturn, and though M.C. sends a A aspect, it is evident that his
health will suffer, the more so because the sign Cancer produces an
over-sensitive body (p. 41). There is reason to expect that the hyper-
sensitiveness of the Cancer-body will manifest in great susceptibility to
cold and moisture, seeing that the aspect of Jupiter comes from the
saturnine sign ^ moreover Saturn throws a Z aspect and Neptune is in

the ascendant (T? p. 63).
The position of the Moon in Libra denotes many* changes of abode,

which may be accepted with more certainty because there are so many
planets in cardinal signs. Indeed, the Moon by itself as ruler of the
ascendant denotes this; even though the cusps of the houses represen-
ting long and short journeys (9th and 3rd), were fixed signs, but
this lessens the tendency somewhat (p. 54, 142).

Thus one might treat separately each house and the influences

acting in it.

When treating the progressive positions we will refer to this horos-

cope again.

General Remarks.

In judging the action of the planets we should always bear in

mind that

planets in angular houses (1, 4, 7, 10) influence the
body,

succeedent houses (2, 5, 8, 11) the feelings,
cadent houses (3, 6, 9, 12) the intellect.

The ruler of the horoscope should be specially studied. When the
3) goes from tf to 8 O i-e - is waxing, the objective consciousness
striving after outward observation comes more to the fore.

When the }) goes from 8 to tf O i e - is waning, the consciousness
is more subjective, seeks the inner side of things.

The O influence in the horoscope is stronger when above the
earth, and the }) is below it. The J) influence is stronger when



148

above the earth and the O is below. When the ruler of the sign in which
the Sun is posited, is in the same sign, the influence of this sign appears
very strongly in the character.

A most favourable position is, when ascendant, Sun and Moon are
in different kinds of signs, e.g. ascendant in an earthy sign, Sun in a
fiery , Moon in an airy sign. This produces greater adaptability and
less one-sidedness.

Many planets in one house close to each other is unfavourable,
because through the rapidly succeeding Moon-aspects (by progression,
see p. 152), all kinds of occurrences and conditions follow each other

quickly and crowd each other out, as it were.
The planets dispersed through the horoscope, denotes adaptability

and changeability.

It is as necessary to trace the parallels as the other aspects, both
in the radix horoscope and by progression. By insufficient knowledge
of the exact degree of M. C. and asc. one is often obliged to neglect
the mundane parallels, and if we also neglect the zodiacal parallels,
we but half do our work (p. 157).

If we use therefore the so-called abbreviated ephemeris in which the
declinations are not given, we ought for correctness' sake, to provide
ourselves with the declinations of the planets and of the cusps from
Raphael's Ephemeris for the year in which we were born.

The faults which are indicated by aspects in the eastern half of the

horoscope are more controlled by our will, than those falling in the
western half. The latter seem to form an almost fixed part of our cha-

racter, whereas the former take more the shape of bad tendencies or habits.

A planet in M. C. and in strong aspect to 1) or g exercises a visible

influence on the shape of the body and, in judging, it should therefore

be considered as well as the ascendant and its ruler.

The Sun does not have its greatest influence with most people, until

the second half of life. During the first half the Moon rules principally,

especially up to the 8th year of childhood.
With woman the Moon has much greater influence than with man,

so with woman the Moon-aspects should be specially considered. With
the man also who has the Moon in an angular house; or strong by
aspects, or the Moon as ruler, or a watery sign rising, the Moon-action
will be very strongly felt.

Many oppositions and square aspects give a difficult life with many
obstacles to be overcome, but at the same time it gives character.

A horoscope without inharmonious, but with many harmonious aspects,



149

gives an easy, smooth life, without much emotion, neither in a good
nor a bad sense. These natures are usually very fond of ease, they seek
and find everywhere the sunny side of life, because no great diffi-

culties stand in their way. They have no opportunity to develop charac-
ter and strength. They are the milksop natures that cannot run warm
or cold. They lead an easy but usually insignificant life. It is as if these
characters missed the courage at birth to take up the cross.

For health and vitality, with man, look up the aspects of the O if

above the horizon; the aspects of the O and D if O is below and 3)

above; the O and ascendant if both O and 3) are below the horizon.
With woman look up the aspects of the 3) if above the horizon;

the aspects of O and 3) if O is above and 3) below ; and 3) and ascen-
dant if O and ]) are both below.

The signs V, V, n, Q,, ni, and ,? give great vitality. The signs DC
and 55 give but little vitality.

A bad aspect of r) to Q D and ascendant, lessens the vitality.

Strong affliction of the Moon gives always weak health. Both ])

and $ afflicted in the horoscope of the child, is an unfavourable token
for the health and the life of the mother.

Both O and ft afflicted in the child's horoscope, is an unfavourable
token for the father's health and life.

The planets within 3 degrees of the so-called critical degrees have a
more than usual influence on life, they are extremely sensitive positions
in the Zodiac.

The critical degrees are :

0,13 and 26 of the cardinal signs.
9 and 21 of the fixed signs.
4 and 17 of the mutable signs.

During the dark part of the lunar month the malefics, and during
the light part of the lunar month the benefics act most strongly. In

particular the last days before New Moon are critical.

This concerns those principally, who come very strongly under the

3) influence.

The sign in which the Moon is, and the planets to which it approach-
es by aspect, indicate the work that must be done in this incarnation
and the planets from which it separates itself by aspect, indicate the
work done in former lives (see The progressive Horoscope, p. 152).

In studying a certain house of the horoscope, take the planet that is

in that house.
If there is no planet in that house, one should study the ruler of that

house, i.e. the ruler of the sign on its cusp.



150

The planets that form a strong aspect with the cusplof a certain
house, have moreover a very great influence on all affairs concerning
the house. So one should also study these planets in all their aspects
and follow them in the progressive aspects for the future, just as
well as the planet that is in that house, and the ruler of that house.

The O and 3) both very strongly afflicted gives weak eyes, in some
cases even blindness.

With the aspects of # and ^ one should remember that the good
aspects are often weaker in their action than the conjunction and the
inharmonious aspects.

'*"'.1U

During the time of its revolution when a planet is nearest'the earth,
it exercises the strongest influence.

The Influence of the Fixed Stars.

Of the fixed stars the ancient Persians called Regulus, Antares, Alde-
baran and Fomalhout: the four watchers of the heavens. Excepting the

last, they are very close to the ecliptic. Regulus may even be occulted

(covered) by the Moon. Regulus is as watcher in the South in $,
Antares in the West in ??, Aldebaran in the East in n, Fomalhout in

the North in DC. It is the mouth of the southern fish.

The astrologers of the middle-ages and earlier, had long lists of

carefully computed fixed stars, and many modern astrologers as well
have the habit of inserting important fixed stars which are in the neigh-
bourhood of the Zodiac, and often in one of its signs in the horoscope,
especially when they are in ascendant or M. C. or in conjunction with
one of the planets.

The fixed stars no doubt influence our Cosmos and therefore man
also, and we must not only accept this for those near the Zodiac, but
for all stars in the heavens; for all stars are in a certain relation to

the Zodiac, no matter what latitude they have. The influence is

however such, that it escapes our observation and as long as we do
not know it clearly, as with the planets, we had better not lose ourselves
in fantasies about the separate fixed stars, at least not during the
first years of astrological study.

We might regard the influence that comes from the various parts
of universal space to us and that we call the influence of the 12 zodiacal

signs, as the combined action of all fixed stars placed in this part of

the vault of heaven. The subdivision of it, such as the decanates etc.

even all degrees taken separately, show the combined action of the
stars being in that resp. part.



151

That the belief in the action of the fixed stars is of old date, the
Bible informs us in a number of places. Job has spoken of the influence
of the Sun, Moon and "stars", of the "sweet" influence of the Pleiades etc.

Ptolomy (in his Tetra Biblos) also accepts the influence of the fixed
stars on earth and man; indeed, can there be any life in the Cosmos
that does not exercise its definite influence on any other integrant part ?

Sensitive Places in the Horoscope. Duration of Life.

The Hyleg. It is universally considered that our health and in gene-
ral our vitality are dependent on the position of Sun, Moon and ascen-
dant in the horoscope and on the aspects these three centres receive.
With woman and with children the Moon especially has a very great
influence, with man the Sun, especially after middle-age.

Any affliction of these three points may therefore endanger life, but
experience has taught us, that it is chiefly afflictions in certain parts of
the horoscope that are dangerous, and that in every horoscope a defin-
ite centre may be indicated which, when afflicted, endangers life.

This point which is, as a rule, one of the three mentioned centres,

may be the Pars of Fortune, s(see p. 98) or one of the planets, is

called the Hyleg or Apheta = Giver of Life.

When this Apheta is afflicted by the Anareta or destroyer of life,

death usually follows. T? or <3 usually plays the part of Anareta, but
in some cases also $:, O> 3) or ? The Q may act strongly as destroyer
of life when the Moon is Hyleg and when 2|. or $ does not support
the Hyleg by good aspects.

In order to be Hyleg, Sun or Moon must be in the houses 7, 9, 10
o in the first part of house 11, or within the orb of 5 distant
from it.

If the Sun is in one of these places, it is Hyleg with man.
If the Moon is in one of these places, it is Hyleg with woman.

Raphael takes the Sun always as Hyleg with man, even with night-births.
If with man the Sun is below the horizon, or in the 8th or 12th

house far enough from cusp 9 and cusp 1 (here we allow 10 at least
for the Sun), we take the Moon as Hyleg, provided it be in the houses
7 or 9 or 10 or in the 1st half of 11, or within the orb of 5 from the

cusp of 9 and 1, (with woman we allow at least 10 here for the Moon).
If the Moon does not agree with the conditions, the ascendant is

counted to be Hyleg. Some astrologers in some cases take the Pars of
Fortune and the ruler of the ascendant to be Hyleg.

As Anareta is taken that planet that strongly afflicts the Hyleg. So
if Sun, Moon, and ascendant do not receive bad aspects, but on the

contrary receive good aspects from the benefics, a long life may be.

expected.



152

The Sun gives as Anareta the same diseases as Mars, but less

pronounced and acute.
An indication of a violent death, or death by unfortunate so-called

"coincidence" is if e.g. both Q and ]) are ill-aspected by the malefics.
An affliction in V, ni, % and zz is more dangerous.

By taking the distance from the Anareta to the Hyleg and transpos-
ing it into time, according to the velocity of the planet one
obtains the probable time of death. But everything connected with the
progressive positions should be taken into account (More of this later).

For the present we had better leave suchlike calculations alone. It

is so complicated that usually something is omitted and even if that
were not the case, we can hardly define, how strong a certain aspect
will be in its effect. One might judge its effect by the effect of the
like aspect in a former time, but the conditions under which it recurs
will always be different.

In the history of astrology numerous examples are recorded of astrol-

ogers who have predicted their own death in some cases correct
to a day. (Keppler with Wallensteyn e.g.), but history is silent about
the numerous blunders made in this direction.

But any positive results prove that it is possible to arrive at an
accurate effect by astrological computations.
A number of years ago, the death of the Czar of Russia was pre-

dicted by a well-known astrologer, the precise time was given. Czar
Nicholas in still living. It is true he had to go through a very hard
time, as regards illness and in other ways, during that particular period,
but predicting this would not have caused any difficulty to any seeker
in the astrological school.

Other sensitive points in the horoscope are the Nodes of the Moon
(fe, 8) Dragon's head and Dragon's tail, and the Pars of Fortune (0).
We have seen previously (p. 110) what they represent and how they

are to be found (p. 102).

The Progressive Horoscope.

Everything in nature is subject to development, to evolution;
everything repeats itself periodically and to an ever higher degree of

perfection. We see this repetition in nature round us and though this rising
higher may often escape us, yet the evolution is present there. Our
period of observation is too short to notice it everywhere.
We can see this repetition in the world's history, if we study the

great periods of culture and compare them with later conditions. Our
present time e. g. is a repetition of the Egyptian Chaldean Assyrian
^Babylonian period of culture, the time when the knowledge of the



153

planets and fixed stars was so highly developed. This also shows to us

why the study of astrology is now forcing itself upon us.

We see this repetition in the growth of the embryo in which we
can trace back all the stages which humanity has had to pass through
during millions and millions of years of earth-development (See the

chapter on Embryology).
We see the repetition of man's first period of life in the second half

of his life and we further notice it in the planetary influences which
act during the fetal life; viz. they repeat themselves at the time of our

walking about in our physical sheath. This repetition denotes progression,
evolution, and however much man may resist, in a sense he must go
along with the evolution of the earth, and this progression is indic-

ated by the progressive positions of the planets and cusps of the

horoscope.
In an empiric way, merely by experience they have got to

know in what rythm these progressive influences occur. They have found
that the velocity with which the planets by progression move through
the radix-horoscope is -^ part of the velocity they have in the radix.

So in order to find the place of the progressive planets for each year
following the year of birth, we count one day for one year. For instance,
in order to find the position of the progressive planets for the 36th year
of life, we look up the positions they are in on the 36th day after birth
and likewise for any year. Further it is known that the progressive M.C.
yearly moves 1 onward. So in order to learn to know the positions of

the cusps for e.g. the 15th year of life, one adds 15 to the number of

degrees of the M.C. at birth, and under the obtained M.C. one will easily
find the other cusps in the table of houses for the latitude of the birth-

place. For instance, if at birth 2 V is in M.C., this native will have
17 ^ in M. C. after 15 years.

The directions may be divided into zodiacal and mundane directions,
so just like the ordinary aspects.

The zodiacal directions are the aspects formed by the progression
and the revolution of the planets and of the Zodiac with regard to the

positions they occupied in the radix-horoscope and with regard to
each other.

The mundane directions are the aspects based on the earth's rotation

upon its axis, through which the planets and cusps of the houses come
in certain relations to the Meridian and to the radix position of the

planets. So they have nothing to do with the Zodiac. They are also
called primary directions, which name has been the cause of much con-
fusion. Many people call the zodiacal O directions the primary, and those
of the J) and the planets the secondary directions.
We had therefore better strike the names primary and secondary

from our list, and simply call the direction by its name.



154
*

The Zodiacal Directions.

"I have given Thee each day
for each year."

Ezechiel 4:5.

The zodiacal directions are by most astrologers regarded as the most
reliable directions re predictions. The chief reason surely is, that with
these directions a difference of a few minutes in time of birth does not
cause a great mistake in the calculations. This matters of course when
we regard the ascendant and M. C. progressively e. g. with the M. C.
1 difference makes a mistake in the predictions of a year. This may
put us on the track of the exact M. C. and so of the exact time of birth.

If we are sure that we have the correct cusps of the houses, the
mundane directions may become of great use. They frequently give the
solution to certain occurrences in our life, that we could not explain by
the zodiacal aspects only.

The zodiacal directions are formed by the progression of the planets
and of the cusps (chiefly asc. and M. C.) with which the rule is, to
count a day for a year. So the Sun moves by progression about 1,
the } 12 15, c? about 40' etc. in a year; the ephemeris for the year
of birth indicates this daily motion precisely. The Zenith or M. C. moves
progressively 1 and the ascendant from 40' 2 45'. (See Ephemeris).
We might compare the action of the aspects, formed in one day of

life, indicating the conformable aspects of one year of life, with
the motion of the hands of a clock, the little hand progressing one
minute while the big hand progresses 12 minutes. The motion of 1

minute by the little hand comprises in it 12 minutes' motion of the big
hand. With the progressive horoscope the ratio is not 1 : 12, but 1 : 365.
One day in the progr. horoscope therefore comprises one whole year
of life.

As general rule we may take it, that when the ascendant increases
in velocity during the progression, the personality will come more and
more to the fore, and in the opposite case, so when the velocity of

the asc. decreases, more opportunity will rise for the growth of the

individuality.
The ascendant denotes the manifestation of the Ego through the

physical body, while by the progression of the M. C. our spiritual growth
is indicated. Every new degree brings us new opportunities to progress.
The position and the aspects of the malefics in the radix must, of

course, be taken into account.



155

Calculation of the Progressive Aspects. ')

The calculation of the progressive aspects is as follows : The birth
in our example horoscope was on May 16th 1913 at 7.50 a.m. local
time, the Hague.

Progressive aspects of the O-
The first planet with which the O by progression forms an aspect,

is $. ? is in 26 5' V and the O in V 24 49'. If we follow up the
Sun in the ephemeris, we see that the next day i.e. by progression a
year later (so in 1914), the Sun is at noon Greenwich time in V 25 57'. This
must be reduced to 7.50 a.m. local time for the Hague. The difference
in time with Greenwich is 20 minutes, so we get 7.30 a.m. Gr. time
i.e. 4 hrs. 30 minutes before noon Gr. T.

In 4 hrs. 30 m. the Sun moves IT, so the Sun's position at the
hour of birth is on May 17th 25 46' tf.

The O moves by progression in a year 58', i.e. per month a little

less than 5'. In order to come to the Y aspect to $ the O has to move
26 5' 25 46' = 19'.

The Sun moves through these 19' in 34
/s months = 3 months 24

days, so the progressive O comes in Y. $ in the radix horoscope on the
9th of Sept. 1914.

The next aspect is formed with (in 27 9' n\). In order to reach
the 8 to 0, the Sun has to move on 1 4' more than to Y. $. The Sun
moves this distance in 13 months, so Oct. 1st 1915 is prog. O 8 r.

The following aspect is prog. O A D radix. The ]) is 2 13' =0=, so
in order to form this aspect, progr. O must be in 2 13' n. On May
23rd. at noon (in 1920) the O is in 1 43' n, so at 7.30 a.m. Gr. T.
IT less i.e. 1 32' n so, it has still to go 41' in order to come to
2 13' n. In a month it moves 5', so in 8 l

/5 month, or 8 months 6 days
i.e. Jan. 22nd 1921 pr. Q is A D r.

The next aspects are : resp. progr. O d ft and progr. ()*<$. Let us
calculate the latter. Mars is in V 6 16'. The progr. O is on May 28th

(i.e. in 1925) in n 6 31', so at the hour of birth in n 6 20', i.e. 4' too far,

to form the aspect. The Sun moves through these 4' in 4
/5 month =

24 days, so we have to count 24 days back from May 16th 1925. We
1

get: on April 22th 1925 prog. Q * d r.

The following aspects are : progr. O ^ & and progr. O A $: radix.
Let us calculate the latter, ^t is in s: 7 33' so the O must be 7 33' n,
to form the aspect.

On May 29th, so in 1926, progr, O is in 7 29' n i.e. at the hour
of birth 7 18' n, so the Sun has still to move

= through 15'. It does this

in 15
/5 3 months, therefore on August 16th 1926 progr. O is A # r.

The native on the whole, need not complain of having few good
Sun-aspects in future.

!) Compare Raphael's Ephemeris for May 1913 at the end of the book all through
this chapter.



156

We can simplify these calculations a little, by calculating all progres-
sive positions not for the hour of birth but for noon Greenwich Time.
In this manner we obtain the progression for a couple of months later

(in this case) and we have the advantage of being able to see at a
glance the positions of the different planets at that date for future years.

The following is the method : The birth occurred at 7.30 am. Gr.
T. i.e. 4| hours before noon Gr. T. We have now to calculate to how
many months and days, progressive time, this agrees.

24 hours progr. time is 12 months, so 1 hr. progr. time will be J
/2

month, and 4y2 hrs. = 2 months 8 days.
Noon Gr.T. gives us therefore in this horoscope the progr. positions

for 2 months 8 days after May 16th of any year, that is, for July 24th.
Thus the necessity of subtracting the motion during 4y2 hours is avoided.

In this manner we will calculate a few of the progressive ]) aspects.
The first aspect the 3) forms is pr. D A ft r. in =0= 5 50'- In the year

of birth, at noon, so on May 16th, the D is in 4 55' =0= i.e. 55' from the
place where the aspect is formed. The Moon's motion between May 16th
and 17th = 14 16' i.e. per month by progression, 14 16' : 12=1 +
136' : 12 = 1 11' 20' i.e. 2 l

/3 a day. For 55' the D therefore wants 23 days.
So on Aug. 16th 1913 progr. j) is A ft r.

It will be easier for us if we calculate the resp. positions of the
Moon for the 24th of each month and compile a table of them as follows.

The progr. motion of the 1) for the first year of life i.e. between
May 16th and 17th was 14 16', or per month 1 11' 20*. So we get:

Position progr. D on July 24. 1913 is 4 55' =0=

Aug. 24. 1913
Sep.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.
Mrch.
Apr.
May
June
July 24. 1914

Going over the list, we see that between Aug. 24th and Sep. 24th
the progr. D forms 2 aspects, viz. an 8 d and a "A . The D is Aug. 24th
1913 = 6 6' 20' in =0= and rf 6 16' in V, so the D has to go through

'
another 9' 40*. It moves 2 1

/s a day, so in a little more than 4 days
after Aug. 24th, i.e. on Aug. 28th 1913 progr. D is 8 d r.

is 6 56' in tf, so in order to form the aspect the progr. 3) has to
move another 49' 40', which takes it about

21_ days. So 21 days after

Aug. 24th i.e. on Sep. 14th 1913 progr. J) is A" 9 r.



157

The next aspect is formed to # 7 33' sz (A aspect). Sep. 24th progr.
D is 7 17' 40* in =o=, so it has to move still 15' 20' and does so in
about 7 days, so 7 days after Sep. 24th i.e. on Oct. 1st. 1913 progr. 3)

is A $: r.

The following aspect is a D Q O in tf 24 49'- In order to form that

aspect the D must be in 9 49' =0=. The pr. D is 9 40' 20' == on Nov.
24th, so it has to go through another 8' 40'- It does this in about 4
days, so 4 days after Nov. 24th or Nov. 28th 1913 progr. J> is O r.

The following aspects are pr, } D 2|. in 17 39' % and pr. D D Asc.
in 19 45' 25. We shall calculate the latter. On July 24th progr. 3) is

19 IT in =o=, so 34' from the place where the aspect is formed. It

moves through this distance in about 15 days, so on July 24th 1914 +
15 days i.e. on Aug. 8th 1914 pr. 3) is O asc. r.

In the same way we can go on finding the Moon and its progr.
aspects from year to year.

We do with the planets in like manner. Owing to their slower
motion, of course fewer aspects are formed.

The fastest moving planet is Mercury. It forms its first aspect to #
in zz T 33'. On May 16th is in 7 16' tf and on May 17th in 9 5' V.
So in a year moves 1 49' i.e. 9' a month. It has to move through
17' (from 7 16' V 7 33' V) and this takes ! 8/9 month or 1 month and
26 days. $ therefore comes in D asp. to $: r. 1 month and 26 days
after July 24th 1913 i.e. on Sept. 19th 1913.

An aspect to 2|. 17 39' B) in % takes a long time in being formed.
We see in the ephemeris that on May 21st (so in 1918) $ is in V
16 37' i.e. still 1 2' from the place where the aspect is formed. moves
by progression in 1 year 1 59' i.e. 10' per month. This becomes 1 2'
for 6 months 6 days. So progr. A Qj. r. is formed 6 months 6 days
after July 24th 1918 i.e. January 30th 1919.

Likewise does : in 1920 come 7\ 0.
d" form aspects to and #.
2|. not form aspects,

1

ft form aspects to d , , and $:.

T$L and t not form aspects.

In the same way we calculate the progr. parallels. One example for

elucidation will suffice.

The O has on May 25th noon at Gr. i.e. by progression on July
24th 1922, a declination of 20 54' N. while f r. has adecl. of 20 55' N.,
so a difference of 1'. The O moves by declination onward per year
21 4' 20 54' = 10', so for 1' it becomes Vio year or 1 month and
6 days; so pr. Q P. r. on Aug. 30th 1922.

Likewise for the Moon and the planets.
The ]) constantly forms parallels which are of short duration only.



158

The ascendant and the M. C. as well, also the cusps of the houses
have progression. When we know one of the progr. cusps, we may
find the others in the table of houses.

Suppose we have to calculate the progr. houses for the year 1928,
i.e. for May 31st therefore (the 15th day after May 16.) ; we find on
that day for S. T. 4 h. 33 m. 31 s.

We continue in the same way as in calculating the radix horoscope :

S.T. noon = 4 h. 33 m. 31 s.

time before noon . . . = 4 h. 10 m.
subtract

S. T. for progr. horoscope = h. 23 m. 31 s.

In the table of houses for London (51 32' N.L.) we find for this time as
ascendant 34' Q., for M. C. 6 V and the other cusps as indicated.
We might also arrive at the same result in this way.
We know that the M. C. by progression moves onward 1 a .year,

that is for 16 years (15 years + the year of birth included) 16. TheM. C.
in the radix horoscope was 20 DC ; plus 16 brings us 6 in V. We
look up under 10 in the table of houses and find for the cusp of the
other houses the concurring degrees.

Now by inserting the planets as we find them on May 31st noon
Greenwich time in the houses, we get the progr. hor. for July 24th 1928.

The orbs in the progr. hor. are counted to be very little. Indeed, one
counts the action to be beginning, when the aspect is "full", but we
might take it as certain that the influence makes itself felt before. In
this case we find the following aspects in operation in the progr. hor.

1

progr. D tf progr. d D 2|. pr.

progr. d progr. r) A pr. #
progr. tj A progr. $:.

These are the aspects the progressed planets form with each other,
not with the radix planets ; the latter we obtain, of course, by com-
paring these positions to the radix-horoscope.

Sun-Revolutions. J
)

The recurring of the Sun in the same place of the zodiac as it was
at the moment of birth, is a most important point of time, because then
a new influx of spiritual and material life takes place. The circumstan-
ces the aspects under which this influx happens, may reveal very
much to us.

A horoscope is drawn for the exact moment when the Transit-Sun
arrives again at the exact place it occupied at birth. This figure may be

!) This chapter might be skipped for the present by the student to whom the
preceding causes difficulties.



159

drawn for every year and is therefore called also year-horoscope. It is

of less importance than the progressed-horoscope.
The positions and aspects by progression and the mundane aspects

are of course the most important, but their action may be fortified or
weakened by the year-horoscope. A very favourable year-horoscope,
however, can never put the bad progressive aspects for that year out
of effect and the reverse.

When a bad aspect in the year-horoscope falls on or near the

place of one of the planets (especially O r 3))> of asc- or M. C. of
the radix, its action will be much greater than if it were not the case.

It is favourable when the asc. in the year-horoscope is about the
same as in the radix or in good aspect to it; and it is unfavourable,
when they are in bad aspect to each other.

It is also bad, when the houses 6, 8, 12 of the radix fall in the asc.

of the revolution horoscope (bad for the health especially). The 7th
house of the radix on the asc. of the rev. hor. will bring quarrels and
legal persecutions, provided these matters are indicated in the radix

horoscope. If these houses in the radix are strong and well aspected,
the year-horoscope cannot have the effect of bringing it to pass.

A malefic in an angular house of the year-horoscope afflicting Sun
or Moon, is an indication of struggle and care. A benefic in the angles
(in aspect to O or D) denotes a good time. 9\. or $ e.g. in 5 (in the

year-horoscope) and at the same time 2|. or $ ruler of 5 in the radix,
denotes pleasures and a pleasant time with one's children etc. This in

the same way is applicable to each house.
If the ruler of e.g. 9 (in the radix) is in the M. C. of the year-

horoscope, it indicates successful study in the philosophical or religious
line, it may also indicate a long journey.
O and J> ill aspected in an angle (of the year-horoscope) predicts

difficulties and troubles, in 4 troubles with the father or domestic
worries, in 1 illness, in 10 troubles through the calling, in 7 domestic

quarrels or disagreeables with the partner or with public institutions.

It is bad also, when a malefic (in the radix) falls in the asc. of the

year-horoscope.
The D in the year-horoscope on the place of a malefic in the radix

means a year full of misfortunes, especially on the days when the
transit O comes to the place of or in opposition to the radical malefic
or the 3) in the year-horoscope.

The transits x
) across the places of the planets in the year-horoscope

have also an influence and should be traced.

Further, the days when the transit O comes to the place of one of
the planets in the year-horoscope, should be noticed. Those days are
full of events corresponding to the aspects the resp. planet receives
in the year-horoscope.

!) See Chapter on Transits p. 161.



160

The 3) in the year-horoscope on the radix ascendant, means changes
and journeys for the year.

The ruler of the radix horoscope in the ascendant of the year-horo-
scope, predicts a good year as regards health and for other reasons.

Illustration of the calculation for the Sun-revolution.
The O in ur example-horoscope was at the moment of birth in V 24 49'.

We want to know e.g. when, in the next year, the Sun occupies
exactly the same place in the Zodiac and then we can cast for that
moment the year-horoscope for 1914. Looking up the ephemeris for

1914 we see for the position of the Sun:

Position O on May 16th 1914 at noon Gr. T. = V 24 45' 38'
or PositionQ on May 16th 1914 at 12.20 p. m. loc. time = X 24 45' 38*

Position O at birth was X 24 49'

Distance still to cover 3' 22'

Position O on May 17th noon Gr. T. = tf 25 43' 26'
Position O on May 16th noon Gr. T. = tf 24 45' 38'

O 's motion in 24 hrs = 57' 48'.

So we have to calculate how much time the O wants to cover the
distance of 3' 22'. Therefore

57' 48' 3' 22' = 24 hrs. -r x.

3468' - 202' 24 hrs. -T- x.

173 - 10 =24 hrs. -T- x.

x = 240 -T- 173 = 1.39 = 1 hr. 23 m.

This added to the local time of 12.20 p.m. gives the moment when
the O occupies the same

place at birth as. . 1 hr. 43 m. p.m.
Sid. T. on May 16th = 3 hr. 33 m.

ST. obtained . . . = 5 hr. 16 m.

In the table of houses for the latitude of The Hague we find this

has for ascendant m? 23 20' for the M. C. 20 n etc.

We draw up the horoscope as usual, now for the time of 1.43p.m.
In the same way we calculate the Moon revolutions.

Moon-Revolutions and Day-Horoscopes. *)

The horoscope is drawn up for the exact moment when the transit-

Moon is on the place it occupies in the birth-horoscope. In general here
the same holds true, as is said of the Sun-revolution, but the action
lasts only one month in this case. It is of less importance than the

preceding we might call it a
; month-horoscope.

i) See footnote p. 158.



161

We could cast a daily horoscope, taking the hour of birth daily and
the cusps of the houses and the planetary positions according to the
S. T. and their positions on the day. It is based on the apparent motion
of the Sun round the Earth in 24 hours, so on the Earth's rotation

upon its axis. It may help us in many instances to fix the exact day
on which an event, that is indicated by one of the progressions, men-
tioned before as going to occur e.g. in a certain month, will take place.
Such an event is indicated in the day-horoscope by the transit of the
Moon across the Meridian or Ascendant or over r), cf, # rad. and also, in
the same way, by O and ]) if they receive bad aspects at that moment.
Likewise those days are bad on which the radix places of the 3 above-
mentioned planets go through the angles of the day-horoscope, this
will apply also to the O and 5, provided they are ill aspected. Benefics
in similar cases denote a good day.

The place where the New Moon falls in the daily horoscope is im-
portant, because the house in which it falls, indicates the nature of the

changes that will take place in the next month.
Repeated observation in this direction may help us to correct the

ascendant and M.C.

Transits.

These are the daily transits of the planets across the important
places in the radix horoscope. So here we follow the daily course of
the planets in the ephemeris for the year of which we wish to know
their positions.

The transits of #, T? and 2|. have a very strong action so strong
that they can completely outdo the action of the good and bad pro-
gressive aspects for a certain time.

It may happen e.g. that one looks eagerly forward to a favourable

aspect of progr. D to 2J. radix, e.g. a A aspect and thinks to have
a fine time for 2 or 3 months in which everything will meet our wishes.
If then ft by transit through a conjunction, opposition or square comes
to harass your O or 3) radix during some weeks, you will for that time
notice very little of your progr. 3) A 2|. r. Of course, much depends on
the strength which ft and 2J. have in the radix.

# can by transit in tf, 8, or n to the planets not only in the radix,
but also to the progressive planets (especially O and D) bring about
sudden reversals, according to the nature indicated by sign and house.

ft acts almost as strongly. In bad aspect tf, 8, 3 to the O it wea-
kens the vitality and manifests in poor health, sensibility to cold, catarrhs
and depression.

11



162

ft by transit in d, 8, n, J) progr. acts depressingly ; when the J) by
progression has a velocity of 12 13, one might be held or bound
down for years together by this transit. By its retrograde motion, during
some portion of each year, ft twice a year passes the point whence
the aspect to the progr. 3) is formed, and each time for a few weeks,
one is exposed to the Saturn-action. In the most favourable case, with
great velocity of the progr. 3), this reciprocal action lasts 57 years;
but in the most unfavourable case, when one is born with the

aspect ft tf, n or 8 3>, and the progr. 3) reaches no greater velocity
than 12 13 l

/2 one gets an opportunity to study during his life-

time the Saturn-action ("Saturn is hunting the Moon").

1

d by transit acts only a few days and these transits are therefore
less important the same holds good of the still

; quicker planets $ and &
of course.

tp by transit acts for months, but its action is vague and impercept-
ible to many. Here the position and aspects that ^ has in the horos-

cope at birth, should especially be noted. If its position is weak and if

it does not form aspects to O and J>, its influence by transit will not
be noticed.

Of course, the action by transit of $:, ft and Q|. is highly fortified

when they occupy a strong position in the radix.

3|. by transit in 4 and A to O or D radix is a very beneficent in-

fluence, that may extend over a couple of weeks, unless 2j. becomes
stationary (D.) in either place or near it. In that case its action is prolonged
over a few weeks. This holds good also for the other planets and in

1

this case one will be able to clearly perceive the action of d , $ and .

If one knows only the year and the day of a subject's birth, one
may, by following the transits of $, ft and 6\. with regard to the posi-
tion of the O indicate with certainty the native's good and bad times,

attaching more importance here to the influences of T&. and ft than to
that of 2|..

In particular those planets that are strongly afflicted in the radix,
will show their bad action by bad transits of the malefics, e.g. $ will
then produce all kinds of little troubles, quarrels etc, $ disagreements
with women, etc.

Not only the transits over, and in aspect to, the radix planets have
to be traced, but also the transits to the positions of the progressive
planets, for here also the action of #, ft and 2|. is felt.

Further the transits of the benefics and malefics through the different
houses of the horoscope, cause their favourable and unfavourable action
on the different matters represented by the house.



163

Thus e. g. the transit of 2J- through 10 will produce success in
business ; through 1 1 pleasant acquaintances ; through 2 financial advan-
tages, etc., whereas the transit of I? through 11 brings about disagree-
ments with, and estrangements from, friends ; through 6 illness or ill health ;

through 7 troubles in the domestic life etc.

Thus e.g. a transit QJ. in good aspect to Q or D or to Asc. or M. C.
is a good time to begin new enterprises, and if 2J. becomes stationary
in this place or in M. C. or Asc. the action will be very beneficent and
one may be sure of a good time.

The transits of 3|. over any planet is favourable, but especially the
transits over Q 3) $ $ and W- Much depends on the aspects that
these planets receive at birth, because a transit always sets those aspect-
vibrations into action. The transits of the malefics over the radix planets
are always unfavourable. With transits of malefics over Q or J) or in

8 to their places it is advisable to keep calm, not to journey, and to
do no rash action, thus reducing the danger of accidents, conflicts,

oppositions. It is less fatal when the malefics aspect the radix-positions
of the O, 3) or Asc. by transit badly.

With transits of the Sun, one has to pay attention to the aspects it

receives in the birth-horoscope, e. g. if at birth it is in 8 or D aspect
1

to r) or d , every time the O by transit passes its own place or that of
1

f? or d (resp. in 8 or in D aspect) this affliction of the O at birth will
come into action and cause conflicts either in the health or in other
affairs. These conflicts return every year at the same time. Eventual
help of transit Qj. may neutralise this action and so may a good direction

by progression.
Thus every one has his fortunate and his unfortunate month,

indicated by the daily motion of the Sun.
T&. and t should also be taken into consideration in this sense,

though not to the same degree as the two former planets.
Other people speak of fortunate and unfortunate days. He who thinks

the Thursday a fortunate day will find QJ. well aspected at birth, if

Monday, the D well aspected etc. (see p. 168).
Trace the transits of the malefics with regard to Asc. and M. C. Just

like the transit-aspects to radix Sun and Moon, these will be noticed
in their action to cause little disappointments, troubles, slight indispos-
itions, with 2|., pleasant encounters, agreeable news etc.

Especially trace the parallels which the planets form in their daily
course (transits) with the planets in the radix ; the parallels of $, r? and
2J. have a specially strong and lasting action. As the declination of
these planets moves very slowly, the formation and the separation of
the transit-parallels take a long time. (See Ephemeris).

Not only in the house in which it occurs, does the transit-planet
exercise its action, but also in the houses that are in D or 8 aspect to
the former, e.g. ft coming by transit to the tf of a planet that is in the
eleventh house, will produce not only estrangement from friends and



164

disappointed hopes, but the reaction will be felt in houses 2, 5 and 8
also, and will cause disturbances in the matters denoted by those
houses (p. 90).

Eclipses *).

Eclipses may operate very unfavourably in a horoscope, when they
fall on the places of O D and the malefics or in the ascendant or on
the M. C. of the radix horoscope. On the other hand if they fall in

conjunction or in good aspect to a benefic, the action is favourable,
unless the benefic in the radix is ill aspected.

The influence is strong only when in harmony with the directions in

action at that moment, or when at that moment there are no directions.
If a direction of opposite meaning to that indicated by the eclipse,

also operates by falling into aspect with a planet or one of the afore-
mentioned places, its action will be weakened thereby.

The action is usually some time in coming into operation.
According to the Metonic cycle of 19 years an eclipse falls after 19

years again in the same degree of the Zodiac ; so we can take this into
consideration with our predictions.
We see the law of periodicity in action everywhere.
To illustrate the action of the eclipses, I quote the following (abbre-

viated) from Sepharial's Astrology.
King Edward VII had in his horoscope the Sun in 17 ITL. In May

1902 there was an eclipse exactly in opposition to this point and within
five weeks, on the very coronation-day, King Edward was laid up with
serious appendicitis. This event had been predicted by the astrologers
in many papers, a.o. in Moore's almanac. Sepharial states there with
certainty, that the coronation will not take place on the fixed day and
predicts that King Edward will, on the said day, suddenly be seized by
a serious illness which would be mortal, in his opinion. The latter part
of the prediction did not prove true ; the King recovered after a serious
illness. At the moment of the eclipse the Moon was in conjunction to
the progr. Jupiter and this saved his life. That moment the Moon set in

Edward's horoscope, a token that his former life was to undergo a great
change. We know to what a high degree this has been the case with
King Edward.

New Moon (Lunations) and 2
Planetary Conjunctions )

falling on the place of M. C., Asc., O. D and also on those of the plan-
ets, have a great influence on the events in the month following it.

We have to regard the D directions as the impellent forces of the

See footnote p. 158.
See footnote p. 158.



165

eventual O directions. The latter begin to work when a 3) direction of
about the same nature begins to operate. If there are no }) directions
that can do this, a New Moon can bring it into action, if it falls in

aspect to the O or to the planet aspected by it in the radix.
Thus a Moon-direction may also be brought to action by a New

Moon, if this lunation is of about the same nature as the aspect. The
action usually begins a fortnight later at Full Moon.

If its nature is opposite, the aspect may be delayed in coming into
action and may even become partly inoperative. This is especially the
case when the action of the Moon-aspect is contrary to that of a O
aspect prevailing at the same time.

A New Moon falling on a malefic operates unfavourably.
A New Moon falling on a benefic operates favourably.
A New Moon falling in good aspect to the radix or the progres-

sive planets, is also favourable.
In all these cases the action will be of the nature indicated by the

aspected planets. It is the same with the eclipses, but these have more
effect.

If some lunations of simular nature follow each other, it gives a long
period full of harmony or inharmony, according to the nature of the
lunations.

Of the planetary conjunctions we may say, as to the influence on
the native's life the same as of the lunations, at least as regards the

falling of these conjunctions in the sensitive places of the horoscope.
Those 1

of ft, 2|. and d are especially note-worthy and it is particu-
1

larly the conjunctions of ft and d and of T? and 2}., to which the ancient

astrologers ascribe the greatest influence. Many predictions were made
on the basis of these conjunctions, predictions of wars, contagious
diseases (see e.g. under Chapter Medicine, Syphilis) etc.

More particularly when these x
conjunctions fall in an angle ) of the

horoscope and at the same time on the place of one of the radix-plan-
1

ets, may their influence be very strong ; thus a conjunction of ft and d ,

if one or both of these planets have a fatal influence in the horoscope,
may denote danger to life.

The conjunctions of the quickly-moving planets are less note-worthy,
but their influence does not pass unobserved if they fall on sensitive

places in the- horoscope. The effects of the planetary conjunctions often

begin to be noticeable only after one or two months and may then
extend over many months.

Note that the terrible catastrophes, beginning with a long list of
disasters in aeronautics followed by incendiarism (in England for in-

!) Cardan, the famous astrologer, wrote : "If you want to give predictions rela-

ting to war, notice the angle of the figure in which Mars is placed, for from that
direction the enemy will come". This of course has to do not with birth-astrology,
but with "mundane astrology". I quote it to indicate the importance of planetary
positions in an angle.



166

stance), fire aboard vessels, mining calamities were foretold in the
London papers to result from the conjunction of ft and cf in Gemini
on Aug. 24th 1913. The prediction has literally come true, the

newspapers mention disasters without end, especially in those countries
that come strongly under Mars. We might ask why e.g. Pegoud could
make his caprioles in the air unpunished, during this period full of

danger ? The answer may be : because the above-mentioned conjunction
undoubtedly did not fall in the place of one of the planets in his

horoscope or in unfavourable aspect to them.

Periods of the Planets. l
)

By observation it has been discovered that the planets show in
their action a fixed periodicity; different from that we treated under
the progressions. These periods are not fixed with certainty for Uranus
and Neptune; but for the other planets they are:

d 8 n A
for Saturn 30 15 7 l

/2 10 years.
Jupiter 12 63 4

. Mars 19 9V2 &k 6V.

. the Sun 19 9V2 4% 61
/. .

. Venus 842 2'/, .

Mercury 10 5 2V2 3 1
/.,

the Moon 4 2 1 IVs

This means that e.g. Saturn every 30 years reaches e.g. the tf to

the place of the Sun in the radix horoscope; every 15 years it comes
in 8 to that place ; every 7 l

/2 yrs. in n and every 10 yrs. in A to that

place. The Moon has l

periods of 4, 2, 1 and 1 /s yrs, very short periods.
Especially important are those of Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, in relation

to the place of the Sun at birth. The calculation is very simple. If we
take e.g. in our horoscope of p. 144, Jupiter (17 39' in %) and direct
it to the O (24 49' tf). We see that Jupiter forms a A aspect to the

Sun, the A is full but for 7 10'. We have to calculate how long
after birth according to Jupiter's period this aspect is full. Jupiter moves
through the complete circle of 360 periodically in 12 years, so in order

12 * 365
to cover 1 it wants = 12 days, that is for 7 10', 84 4-2=

jOU
86 days. Thus the trine aspect is full 86 days after birth (May 16th 1913),
i.e. on Aug. 10th 1913. So 4 years later on Aug. 10th 1917 the </

of 2j. to O radix, takes place and this c/ of 2J. returns every 12 years,
so in 1929, 1941 etc.

i) See footnote p. 158.



167

The next A aspect comes 4 years later, so in 1933 and 1945.
The D aspect comes 3 years later, so in 1932 and 1944.
The 8 comes 6 years later, so in 1935 and 1947.
The effect of the weaker aspects is usually imperceptible, but those

of the 4 above-mentioned aspects will be observed more or less by
every student in his own horoscope, though these periodical influences
work less strongly than the directions.

1? in unfavourable, periodical direction to O radix, brings losses,
misfortune, dishonour, slander, and if the O is Hyleg, illness.

Directed to the 3) radix, the same and often death in the family.
Directed, to $, difficulties through women.
Directed to ^.disagreements through correspondence, through child-

ren, etc.
1

Directed to d , accidents, wounds; to 2J., financial losses.
Whether one can always perceive these influences on the radix

planets, is not certain, because they are usually quite overshadowed
by the ruling directions. But those to the Sun, and often also those to
the Moon (especially with woman) will be observed clearly ; principally
with the tf and 8-

The action of Mars in its periodical directions is only short, after
its nature.

Jupiter in its good per. aspects (tf and A) operates very beneficially,
bringing friends of consequence, gain and prosperity. One may
observe especially the periods of prosperity every 12 years. It may
happen that at the same time very unfavourable directions operate and
then this favourable Jupiter-infuence will be able only to bring some
slight improvement or benefit.

The 1

periodical direction of the Sun to the tf or 8, of d and ft is

always more or less dangerous, whereas the periodical direction of the
Sun to the tf and A of 2J. and $ is favourable.

The periodical directions of the Moon with the different planets
operate a few weeks at most and cause many little changes. Most
astrologers pay too little attention to these periodical influences.

For the present the student should notice only the zodiacal directions
and parallels and trace the transits of the planets. He might neglect the
sun- and the moon-revolutions, the eclipses, lunations, and the planetary
periods.

The Planetary Hours.

It is evident that the days of the week in the various languages are
derived from the names of the planets e.g.

Sunday, English (Sun), Dutch Zondag (Zon), German Sonntag (Sonne).
Monday, English (Moon), Dutch Maandag (Maan), French lundi (Lune),

Italian Lunedi (Luna), German Montag (Mond).



168

Tuesday, French mardi (Mars), Italian Martedi (Mars).
Wednesday, French mercredi (Mercury), Italian Mercoledi (Mercury).
Thursday, English (Thor or Jupiter), Italian Giovedi (Jove), Dutch (Don-

derdag) and German (Jupiter in connection with lightning and thunder, Thor).
Friday, French vendredi (Venus), Ital. Venerdi (Ven=us).
Saturday, English (Saturn), Dutch Zaterdag (Sater Saturn).
The names of these days have been arrived at, from the knowledge that

the different days are ruled by the planets they are named after.

Sunday is governed by the Sun, Monday by the Moon, Tuesday by
Mars etc. or rather: the first hour after sunrise is on Monday ruled by
the Moon, the first hour after sunrise is on Tuesday ruled by Mars etc.

Thus the time from sunrise to noon is divided into 6 parts, and every
part that is equal to or more or less than an hour (dependent on the
time of sunrise) is respectively ruled by the various planets in this order
1 O 2$, 3 & 4]), 5 T?, 6 2(., 7 rf, 8 O etc. Likewise the
time from noon till sunset is divided into 6 equal parts, just as the time
from sunset up to midnight and from midnight to sunrise.

Table of the Planetary Hours.

S. M. Tu. W. Th. F. S.

O 1 5 2 6 3 7 4
$ 2637415
5 3741526
D 4152637
T9? 15263747.46317542165

12
1

d 3
The list needs no further explanation. On Wednesday e.g. the first hour

is ruled by & the 2nd by I>, the 3rd by ft. etc. The 7th hour is the hour
after noon and also the hour after midnight.

For each month we can readily calculate the duration of the "hours",
if we divide the time between sunrise and noon and between noon and
sunset by 6 and fill in the correct hours for the numbers 1 to 7. The
8th hour for the same day begins therefore at the top in the same row,
and the 7th hour begins always exactly at noon etc.

The Cabbalists and Thaumarturgists a.o. keep their mental and
religious practices at definite planetary hours and set great store by it.

We can state that in the Mars and the Mercury-hours and in the
Mars- and Mercury-periods of the other planetary hours e.g. the greater
number of accidents occur, owing to a more or less agitated, nervous
condition during that time. Every sensitive person may observe for him-
self that the influence is different according to the planetary hour and
its sub-periods (see below).

According to the planetary hour one is more or less fit for this

work or that, in a better or worse mood. Much has been written



169

concerning the planetary hour and the fittest pursuits etc., but we
refrain from further explanation, for fear one might think too much of
it and regulate one's activities accordingly which would in our opinion
be decidedly inexpedient for various reasons.

In tracing the events in the different planetary hours, one should
pay attention not only to the chief division of day and night in the
24 planetary hours, but also to a subdivision of those hours.

Let us take 1

Tuesday e.g. The first hour after sunrise is ruled by d ,

but the sub-divisions (each of which l
is /7 of the planetary hour), have

successively as sub-ruler d, O, $, & D, t, 2J-; so the first V7 part has
as sub-ruler cf, the second l

/7 part has the etc.

Suppose the Sun rises at 5 o'cl. and sets at 7 p.m., we have a day
of 14 hours and this divided into the 12 planetary hours gives planetary
hours of 1 hour and 10 minutes and sub-divisions of 70

I =7 10m.
In our example the first 10 minutes is ruled by d d (from 5 a.m.

till 5.10 a.m.), from 5.10 a.m. till 5.20 a.m. d G rule, from 5.20 a.m. till

5.30 a.m. d $, from 5.30 a.m. till 5.40 a.m. d etc. The second hour
begins with Q d (from 6.10 a.m. till 6.20 a.m.).

These sub-periods most certainly have their meaning and when we
begin to classify the events of the day according to this double division,
we will soon perceive this.

Astrologers do not agree as to the sub-division of the hours, some
propose a subdivision of 4 minutes each, and so on for the rest, after
the same method and order.
We have no opinion about it. It will perhaps be possible for sen-

sitive people to come to a definite conclusion.
The meaning of the planetary hours should of course not be over-

rated, but we advise those who doubt the existence of those influences,
to carefully note down during a few months the events and impressions
during the different planetary hours. We venture to believe, they will

change their opinion.

The Pre-natal Horoscope and Correction of the Time of Birth.

The pre-natal horoscope is drawn up for the moment of conception
(the Epoch) i.e. the moment when the masculine spermatozoid pene-
trates the feminine ovum and impregnation takes place. It is known
that the masculine sperm may live on some time in the ovary by which
the time of conception falls at a later point of time than the coitus.

Ages ago the ancient astrologers pointed out that the moment when
the spermatozoid penetrates the ovum, is dependent on the position of
the Moon and to this knowledge does the Rule of Hermes owe its

existence.



170

That the moment of conception, at which the incentive is given for
the birth of the earthly vehicle, which must serve the Ego during its

physical existence, is an extremely important moment, none is likely
to doubt, and therefore it is evident that the horoscope drawn up for
this moment may reveal much. The knowledge of it is however still

very primitive, has but begun in fact, and rests principally on
surmise.

Many people believe that this horoscope represents the astral body
and its environment, in centra-distinction to the birth-horoscope
which, taken in a general sense, represents the physical body and its

environment. Some distinguish two different moments of conception
and draw up a horoscope for both moments, of which one represents
the astral body, the other the Individuality, according to their stand-

point. Opinions about this point differ, but for that very reason it is

interesting for the astrologer to form some idea of this. It is the way
to arrive at a clearer knowledge of it.

Interesting studies have been made concerning the Epoch, in relation
to the future sex of the embryo, which throw some light on this mys-
terious point. (Read about this a.o. Sepharial).

The Epoch-horoscope may frequently make clear to us some points
of the character that do not appear sufficiently in evidence in the birth-

horoscope and it often explains the premature death of children where
the reason, otherwise, is not clear. It aids in studying deformities,

arising during the intra-uterine life by this is meant also all terato-

logic products, and frequently gives the solution.
The Epoch-horoscope may also be used for the correction of normal

births and to make it thoroughly understood, we will take an example
of this, though we must at the same time, give warning that if not yet
conversant with astrology the student treads upon slippery ground. We
suggest its use only for making little corrections; here it may be
of great value. That this method so often gives correct results is the
best proof of the truth of the Rule of Hermes or in other words of the

hypothesis that the Moon influences the moment of impregnation as
well as that of birth.

The Rule of Hermes reads: The ascendant or descendant at birth
is the place of the J> at conception and the place of the D at birth
is asc. or desc. at conception.

When we analyse the rule of Hermes, we see that four cases

may offer, viz.

1. D at birth above the horizon and waxing.

The pregnancy is then less than 273 days and the position of the

3) during the impregnation becomes ascendant at birth.

2. 3) at birth above the horizon and waning.



171

The pregnation is then more than 273 days and the ])'s position
during epoch (conception) becomes descendant at birth,

3. D at birth below the horizon and waxing.

The pregnancy lasts more than 273 days and D's position during
epoch becomes ascendant at birth.

4. D at birth below the horizon and waning.

The pregnancy is less than 273 days and D's position during epoch
becomes descendant at birth.

The average time of the normal pregnancy is 273 days i.e. 9
months = 10 Moon-months = 39 weeks. We see in the four cases
above-mentioned, when the pregnancy is longer, and when less than
273 days.

Number of

Degrees



172

When the Moon is waxing we have to count the number of degrees
the Moon is distant from the asc. ; and when the Moon is waning the
distance from the desc. This number of degrees divided by the mean
motion of the Moon during the first days of Epoch, indicates the number
of days the pregnancy lasts shorter or longer than 273 days. When
the mean motion of the Moon in the first days of the pregnancy is 12,
the table on p. 171 will be a help in calculation; but when it is 14 e.g.

(see example on this page), we have to divide the number of degrees by 14.

The difference may be 15 days at most with normal births.

The horoscope for the Epoch is in all respects calculated in the same
way as the radix-horoscope we start however from the

; position of the
Moon at birth and take this as asc. or desc. of the Epoch horoscope.
We have to calculate to what day and what part of that day, this position
of the Moon agrees, if at the moment of conception it is asc. or desc.

The day of Epoch may be found by counting back 273 days, or

simpler by counting back one year and forward three months. It needs
no further explanation that in this way we might make a mistake of a
few days, for the months are not all of the same length, but notice

only the day of the week on which the birth took place. By taking the
same week-day we are sure to count exactly 39 weeks back.

Having found the exact day of Epoch, we must calculate what the
difference is between noon of the day obtained and the time represented
by the Moon's position on that day at noon. How this is done, an
example will show.

When this difference between the two times has been found, we
know the number of hours and minutes that the conception took place
before or after noon of the day in question and so arrive at the exact
time of Epoch.

For this moment we draw up the Epoch or pre-natal horoscope
and by comparing the j)'s place in this horoscope to the ascendant in

the birth-horoscope we can easily calculate from their difference how
far we have to correct the ascendant, and also the time of birth.

Take for example a birth that was fairly accurately known viz. that
of the president of the U. S., Mr. Woodrow Wilson. According to returns
he was born Dec. 28th 1856 at 12.05 p. m. at 79 W. Long and 38 N.Lat.

When we calculate the horoscope for this time and latitude, with the
correction for Sidereal time, we find ascendantV 13 7' and M.C. 7 30' %.
The O is just in 7.16 X and the ]) in 23.45 %. The } has therefore

passed the conjunction Q and is g mg to the opposition, hence is

waxing. It is above the horizon. If the I) is waxing and above the
horizon the time of pregnancy is less than 273 d. we have to calculate

;

how much less.

When the I) is waxing, we calculate the distance from the as-

cendant, i.e. in this case 6 15'+ 30 +30 + 13 7'= 79 22', The
mean motion of the Moon on March 30. 1856 (i.e. 273 days before birth)
is 14, so we have to divide 79 22' by 14. That is less than 6. How



173

much less than 6 days the pregnancy lasted short of 273 days (= 9 months),
we shall calculate presently. The duration of pregnancy is therefore
273 6= 267 days i.e. 39 weeks 6 days and we find for the day
of conception or Epoch April 5th 1856. We find the 3) in the same sign
as the ascendant at birth, viz. in V.

Now we have to calculate the exact moment on Apr. 5th, when the con-
ception took place. We have had to count back more than 6 days as
above, and so know that the moment of Epoch took place before noon
of April 5th.

Take the difference in S. T. noon April 5th and S. T. given by the

position of the 3) in *T 23 45' (at noon). In the table of houses for
38 N. we find that X 23 45' is equal to S. T. noon of 14 h. 54 m. 7 s.

We subtract this S. T. from the first.

noon April 5th 1856 S. T. = h. 55 m. 53 s. (add. 24 hrs.)
S.T. D (% 23 45) = 14h. 54m. 7s.

Difference in S. T, 10 h. 1 m. 46 s.

This result gives the time, the conception took place before noon
April 5th 1856. Even now this time is not absolutely correct. The cor-
rection for S. T. during these 10 hours 1 m. 46 sec. is wanting. In
24 hrs. the S. T. changes about 4 minutes, i.e. 10 sec. per hr. So we
must subtract from the obtained S. T. 10 X 10 s.= 1 m. 40 sec.

Time before noon = 10 h. 1 m. 46 sec.
1 m. 40 sec.

Time before noon = 10 h. Om. 6 sec.

Hence the exact time of Epoch is 1 h. 59 m. 54 sec. a.m. April 5th 1856.
For this moment we can draw up the pre-natal horoscope. By the

Rule of Hermes we know that the place of the 3) in this horoscope
represents the exact ascendant of the birth-horoscope. So we calculate
the place of the D.

On April 5th 1856 the D is in V 19 29'
On 4th , V 4 22'

Motion of the ]) in 24 hrs = 15 7'

log. 15 7' = 2008
log. 10 hrs. = 3802

log. 5810 = 6 18' = motion of the } in 10 hrs.

V 19 29'
6 IS'

V 13 11' = exact position of the ]) at con-
conception or Epoch.

The exact ascendant at birth is thus V 13 11'.

So we have to make a very slight correction indeed; the supposed



174

time of birth was almost correct; for we have taken the rising sign
only 4' too little. By looking up in the table of houses how many
degrees and minutes of the ascendant agrees with the number of minutes
and seconds'difference in S. T., it is very easy to reduce these 4' to time.

The remark which is sometimes made, that one does not know the
time of birth exactly and that the position of the 3) is not accurately
known, and that therefore the asc. and desc. of the Epoch-horoscope
are incorrect, will not stand, because the slight difference of 1 degree
in the 3)'s position at birth and therefore of the asc. and desc. of
the Epoch horoscope would mean as much as 2 hours difference in the
time of birth and this method of correction is applied only where the
difference is much less than two hours.

Another more simple method of rectification of the horoscope is

one of taking certain principal events in the native's life.

We find the position of the Moon by progression during the time of
these events. If there is no data at all, except the date, the moon's
position cannot be fixed within the limits of 12. Now we change the

position of the Moon within these limits so, that it forms an aspect
conformable in action to the events referred to ; and draw up the horos-

cope according to this surmised time. Then trace the transits, for if a
transit falls near the asc. or M. C. that will also point to the event,
change asc. and M. C. as often as is necessary to make the aspect by
transit "full". If there is no transit of the kind, try the same method with
the progressive asc. and M. C.

Do this with two or three events of which the time is known and
so find the correct asc. and M. C. and the correct time of birth. If the
two or three events indicate a little difference in time, take the aver-

age time.
This time may be subjected to correction by the Rule of Hermes,

as given above, and when, by Moon-directions and transits of the plan-
ets, we can find aspects conformable to the events, we may usually
be sure the calculation by the Epoch squares v/ith it.

When we know the time of birth fairly correctly, this method does
not present any extraordinary difficulties, but when we do not even
know the exact date, the difficulties become very great.

Another method for correcting is the following : Collect all events,
times of illness, prosperity etc. of which the time is known, make an
orderly list of them and calculate the progressive aspects of the O. D
and planets during the past period of life. We see that the order of
the events is indicated by these aspects, but the time when they occur
does not quite agree to the time the aspects operated. Find out the

average of this difference in time and so arrive at the correct time of
birth. It is a round-about, but very safe method, which might moreover
be checked by the one above-mentioned.

The asc., especially with illness and the cusp of the M. C. with



175

changes in business or calling, will most likely give directions, for, when
afflicted, either of these two sensitive points is sure to be evidenced in
its respective way.

The outward appearance, the handwriting, the general character of
the native can give distinct direction as to the nature of the ascendant.
Any doubt e.g. between the last degrees of DC and the first degrees of
V surely will not be possible. The impression of the personality therefore

may often put us on the track of the rising sign.

The profections (see p. 179) may also be of use, not only the 12

yearly, but even the yearly and monthly profections to find the
ascendant or the M. C. When e.g. the asc. by protection comes in

conjunction to a planet, the action of that planet will make itself felt,

especially that of T? and 2J.- The degree of expression is of course
for a great part dependent on the degree of that planet's influence in

the horoscope in question, and further on the native's sensitiveness.

In the same way may transits (see p. 161) i.e. the passing of the

planets in their daily motion across the cusps of the houses help us
to define these cusps more accurately, e.g. if I? by transit comes on
the cusp of house 11, one will experience estrangement, troubles with
friends or acquaintances, or frustration of a long cherished wish; the
same planet entering the 7th house will give troubles with the wife
(or husband) or partner, and so on with the other planets, according to
their action (more of this later).

If there is a planet in the native's ascendant, this may help in some
cases, though often it makes it more difficult, because it influences the

appearance the ascendant would give. We have known a person born
in the years that J&. went through V by transit. We do not know his
hour of birth and yet are quite convinced he was born with V rising
and T&. in the ascendant judging by the build of his body combined
with great vitality, coloured face, peculiarly bent, strong nose, Uranus-
eyes, sudden fits of enthusiasm, and his heavy bass voice which in his
fits of enthusiasm makes such wonderful caprioles that people a great
distance off stand still, thinking of some special phenomenon.

Correcting a horoscope is always good brain-exercise, requiring all our
intellect and faculty of concentration. Superficiality and cursoriness will

bring nothing but confusion ; patience and perseverance alone can lead
to a good result. But our pains are amply rewarded, when we at length
arrive at a good issue

; for not until then, can we observe from day to

day how strongly in our feeling and thinking we react on cosmic
influences. Not until then do we begin to feel truly one with the Cos-
mos. This is the reason why Astrology is so fascinating a study and
moreover of such great help in life.



176

Action of the Directions.

(General Indications).

In judging the effect, the different progressed aspects will have,
various points should always be borne in mind.

First the moral standpoint of the person, the height to which the

Ego has evolved. An example will make this clear. A butcher's boy e.g.

may under an opposition of 3) Pr - to <$ radix for the time the aspect
operates, become a dangerous person and do mischief amongst his fellows
with knives or other sharp things, whereas the same aspect in the horo-

scope of an exalted philosopher will probably express only in greater
impulsiveness, apart from the effect this aspect has on the health.

The action of this aspect will be much more powerful, if there is

such an aspect in the radix horoscope. This holds good for all aspects.
It need not be exactly the same aspect, but something akin to it, as

e.g. in the above mentioned case an 8, a D Q, -Z, tf or P. If there is

in the radix a favourable aspect between 3) and d, the impulsiveness
will come 1

strongly to the fore, and the bad side of d will keep more
in the background, than in the opposite case.
A harmonious aspect by progression between O or 3) and ^ or ^

will mean infinitely more with an exalted individuality than with a low
one, because the former can better respond to the high vibrations of
these two planets.

The directions formed with the planets in the radix have to be
looked upon as actions arising from inborn tendencies, and the directions
formed between the progressive planets mutually, are influences operating
on resultant qualities, and so on the progressive character.

The directions formed by the progressive Sun, are by far the most
important and they reach their full action completely, when at the same
time identical progr. 3) aspects are operating.

They are weakened by opposite progr. 5 aspects during the time
these act, and the reverse.

The action of the progr. 1) aspects is hardly noticed, if a progr. Q
aspect of opposite action, is active.

Unfavourable 3) aspects will as a rule have little effect on the health,
unless inharmonious O aspects are operating simultaneously.

To the degree the ]) by progression moves on through the different

signs of the Zodiac (1 sign in 2Vs years on an average or each month
1^, it takes on, in its expression, the qualities of the sign it passes
through, but the keynote of its action is always that of the sign it

was in at birth. Those who have a watery sign on the ascendant, or

O D or many planets in watery signs (especially SB) are far more
responsive to planetary influences (especially ]) influences) than those
who have the earthy and fiery signs very strongly represented.

Those too who are entirely taken up with material things, (earthly
sings) seem to feel the influence less.



177

We must always keep an eye on the transits of the slow planets, as
these may make an aspect of Q and ]) etc. inactive for some time, if

the action is opposite. (See p. 161 under Transits of the planets).

A progressive aspect from a fixed sign is of much longer action
than from the other signs.

Every progressive Q aspect exercises its action about 3 years.
A progr. ]) aspect operates from 3 months down to a few weeks,

dependent on the sign from which the aspect comes, and in which it

is formed and also whether such an aspect occurs in the radix.
The duration of the action of the progr. aspects of the planets

depends quite on their velocity and, of course, on the nature of the sign,
(fixed being the longest).

The ]) will strongly exert its influence, especially if it goes by pro-
gression, through houses that contain many planets in the radix horo-
scope. The Moon brings changes of conditions and makes life rich in
events through the many aspects it forms in its progression.

Especially strong are those inharmonious } aspects which are formed
in the so-called climacteric years i.e. those years in which the progr. })
comes in D 8 or tf to its own place at birth. This happens every 7 years
after the year of birth, so in the 7th, 14th, 21st, 28th etc. year. The
years 49 and 63 are called the great climateric years; they appear to

bring many unfavourable changes, if many bad 3) aspects occur then.
The D, 8 and 3 aspect of ft to its own place by transit is coincident
with these periods of 7 years, for ft revolves through the 12 signs in
about the same time as the I) by progression. (See p. 162).

Never lose sight of the radix horoscope in judging the progr-aspects.
When the radix denotes strong health, a succession of bad 3) aspects will
not bring serious illnesses; when the radix denotes great phlegm or
indolence, a progr. J> aspect will not be able to make this character in
the full sense of the word energetic and impulsive, during the time of
its activity.

It is very interesting to trace how the progr. Moon-aspects bring us
into contact with people typified by the planet that she aspects; e. g.
a 1

pr. 3) Q d brings us into unpleasant contact with people that come
strongly under cf, both as regards their calling and their appearance and
manner. If the aspect had been harmonious, this coming into contact
would have been of a pleasant nature. Thus a D aspect with $ will

bring us into contact with types that come strongly under ?. (S. p. 141).
So we may know beforehand, what kind of people we are likely to

mix with, during certain periods of time. In the second volume of this
book will be explained why. Everything, even the most trivial, occurs
according to fixed laws.

12



178

It is superfluous to state that the environment, changes of season
and temperature, other people etc. exercise an influence on our physical
and spiritual life, but all these influences are regulated in cooperation
with the cosmic powers and influence us by fixed rules, according to
how they are brought to bear on our birth- and progressive-horoscopes.

Another general remark on the action of the "malefics" :

Mars' action by aspect always means a struggle. In its bad aspects
it brings excitement and strife and in its good aspects it impels us to
hard work or effort and gives us the strength necessary for it. Under its

influence we should be especially heedful of impulsive acting and
speaking, for we are then inclined to say or do things we will after-

wards regret.

Saturn slackens and hinders; viz. in its bad aspects it brings
obstacles of all kinds in a slow but certain way and in its good aspects
gives patience, deep and profound study, and in general well considered
and well finished work. It asks patience and concentration of us, and
rewards according to our application of these qualities.

Uranus operates suddenly, as lightning flashes without warning, both
under good and bad direction. Under its influence we may expect the
most unforeseen reforms and changes, beneficial or otherwise accor-

ding to the aspect. Every impulsive action should be evaded, though
one will be inclined to it, even more than under a Mars aspect.

Neptune in its good aspects gives diplomacy and in its ill aspects
the diplomacy is applied wrongly, viz. we are either inclined to join in

conspiracies and swindles, or we become the victim of them.
We do not consider Neptune a "malefic".



179

Mundane Directions, Prelections. 1
)

The formation of these directions is based on the same principle as
with the mundane aspects (see p. 83), viz. the proportionate distances
from the cusps define the aspects formed by direction. The M. C. moves
1 a year onward and the cusps of the other houses and the interjacent
places proportionately ; one may thus calculate the time that the planets
in their progression, form aspects with their radical places and likewise
also with te cusps. The mundane parallels in the same way are formed
by taking the Meridian as directing point. These mundane directions
arise through the earth's rotation upon its axis and have nothing to do
with the Zodiac, but with the houses 2

only. )

Of these mundane directions we will treat only of the so-called

Profections, as it is impossible to give for the mundane directions sim-

plified calculations that are also sufficiently correct. Indeed, the zodiacal
directions more than suffice for our predictions and moreover if the
mundane directions are to be of use, we ought to be quite sure of the

cusps of the houses. One degree difference in the M. C. gives a mistake
of a year in the predictions and, in the Asc., often more.

With the protections this mistake is much slighter.
We have twelve-yearly, yearly and monthly protections. The former

are by far the most important. We imagine that through the earth's
rotation upon its axis, each point of the zodiac revolves once fully in

12 years; so the Asc., M. C., and the radix-places of the planets return
to their original places after 12 years. The Ascendant in this way comes
in the various radix-houses and the planets form their various conjunc-
tions to Asc, M. C. and to the radix-places of the planets.

Thus directly after birth the ascendant comes in the 12th house and
goes onward till on the next birth-day it enters the llth house etc.

By the following simple method we can look up the protections in

an instant.

1) See footnote p. 158.
2
) There are different methods of direction of the planets and cusps, one

astrologer following this, another that method, usually finding his own method
best, they are all based on the same cosmic law of perpetualrepetition in evolu-
tion and may in a sense show us different sides of those repetitions.



180

Wheel to survey the Profections.

Thefinner wheel with division may be turned in the outer, which remains stationary,
so that [by bringing the place of the Ascendant of the inner horoscope to conform
with the required time, we can at once see the position of the revolving planets
in regard to the radix-horoscope.

We draw two horoscopes of different diameter, the smaller of which
may be turned in the larger. We make the houses 30 each and put
on the cusps the 12 signs of the Zodiac, with the number of degrees
that is on the Ascendant, and put the planets in the exact place they
ought to be.

In our example horoscope we had Ascendant 1945' 25. For sake
of convenience we will take 20 25 for the Ascendant and so for the
other cusps 20 1, 20 W etc. We divide each house in 6 equal parts,



181

both those of the outer and those of the inner horoscope. Every divi-
sion is therefore 5 and with the help of this division we can give
the correct places to the planets in both horoscopes; we may further
indicate by dotted lines the cusps of the houses in the radix-horoscope.
We know that every 12 years the resp. points in both horoscopes

come in the same place again and it will not be difficult for us to turn
the figure according to the time we wish; for one house represents
one year and a division represents 1/6 year or 2 months.

The outer horoscope represents the stationary radix and the inner
the horoscope progressing by protection. Chiefly pay attention to the
transit of the Ascendant through the houses and to the conjunctions
formed by the Ascendant and the planets. The action of the conjunc-
tions has to be taken here in the same way as those of the progressive
aspects and need no further explanation. Only bear in mind that the

profections are quite subjected to the zodical directions and only fortify
or weaken these in their action.

With the yearly profections and monthly profections this is the
case to an even stronger degree. I mention them, because they follow
in the same scheme. Viz. with the former a revolution is made in

one year, one house will count a month, and a little division 5 days.
The yearly profections are clearly perceptible in their action. With
the monthly profections a revolution is completed in one month and a
house is passed through in 2y2 days.

The figure represents the moment of the 12-yearly protection when
the Ascendant has just passed 3 signs, that is 3 years after birth and
further for every 12 years.

These profections may be of service in tracing the correct Ascendant.
The Ascendant viz. coming into conjunction with one of the planets,
will cause a reaction relating to our body and consciousness, after

the nature of the planet.

Directions of the Sun. l
)

As we chiefly apply the system of the Zodiacal directions, the Sun
directions are those to which all others are subjected. They operate for

three years on an average, from fixed signs rather more than three

years. The action in full force begins when the aspect is "full" and
when a Moon direction (p. 156), lunation (p. 164) or transit (p. 161),

gives the necessary impulse. This may happen somewhat earlier or
later than at the point of time referred to.

1
) As far as possible I shall give briefly, especially with inharmonious directions,

the fittest mental attitude by which one may fight and endeavour to overcome the
inharmonious influence (resp. fault in the character). The study of the progressive



182

We need not consider an Orb here. For instance a trine aspect of
the progressive Sun to Venus comes into action at the moment when
the progressive Sun forms an angle of exactly 120 degrees with either
Venus radix, or Venus progr.

This may be applied inversely, but the duration of the action is then
in proportion to the velocity of the planet which forms the aspect.
A Parallel is weaker than a tf.

General rule. A good (harmonious) Q direction (A, *, v., sometimes
d and P.) denotes friendship, advantage, help etc. of people or things
indicated by the aspected planet, by the sign from which the aspect
comes (resp. in which it takes place) and by the house or the houses
in which it occurs. A bad (inharmonious) Q direction (8, D Q, Z, some-
times tf and P.) denotes difficulties, loss, illness etc.

According to the moral standpoint of the individual the action will

express now on the physical, now on the astral or mental plane, that
is in our feeling and thinking (see Outlines of the Aspects p. 80).

The Q directions influence the health, especially if the Q is hyleg (see
p. 151) honour, improvement of position, promotion, favour of high-placed
people, the father, and, in a feminine horoscope, the husband.

aspects becomes by this means an unequalled source to self-education or in other
words of improving the character.

Moreover is indicated, where necessary, for what activities the different harmo-
nious directions are most appropriate, so that one may make the utmost use of these
favourable periods, chiefly for formation of character.

By learning to control ourselves, by banishing fear, envy, hatred from our
mind, by cultivating kindness and willingness to help, we open at the same time
the door to all that is good.

If we viz. positively intend to maintain our equilibrium, even under the most
inharmonious directions, we learn to "rule our stars". Be resolute persevere, and
do not look back on attempts that have proved a failure. Astrology makes us
acquainted with the enemy and this is a great gain.

A remark often made by some opponents of Astrology who are compelled by
the facts to acknowledge its truth, is that it compels man to be occupied too
much with himself, and consequently its thoughts are turned away from mankind
as a whole, of which he is after all an integral part.

On the surface this may seem true, but it is not so in reality. We leave out of
account the abuse that is made of Astrology by those who would drag the science
down to be merely profitable calling.

For us who use Astrology as a means to arrive at self-knowledge and as a
system for self-education and improvement of the character, there can be no ques-
tion of this, in our opinion; for what we improve in our character may help
others also. If we want that which is good to radiate from us, we must first cul-
tivate it in us, without source no current.

By studying the forces which perpetually come to us from the planetary centres
in the Cosmos, and form us and keep us, we simply apply the ancient proverb :

"Man, know thyself", for man is one with these forces and inseparable from them,
and the first beginning, the alphabet is the study of the twelve Zodiacal signs
and of the planets, the consonants and vowels of the alphabet of the Universe.
The significance of those letters must be well impressed in our memory, if we would
well understand the language which is spoken to us by means of these symbols.



183

In the horoscopes of young children the action sometimes expresses
with the parents and reacts secondarily on the child; with a married
couple now and again we see the same reciprocity.

O 3 P- D- Under this direction a quite new cycle of life begins ; so great
changes are indicated. If the J) is badly aspected it will rather mean a critical

period, accompanied by important changes which will lead at length to impro-
vement. It is a new influx of the vitality of the Sun, for which the ]) is trans-
mitter. At first it may bring with it affection of a feverish nature, this is

especially the case with women.

O A * V. 3). A very favourable and beneficent influence in which the in-

dividuality tries to cooperate in harmony with the personality. The spirit is

clear and intuitive, the health good. This position brings changes of a favourable
nature, we gain new knowledge and experience of all kinds and new friends are
made. It means improvement and progression in all way.

O 8 n L D. A very unfavourable aspect for the health, for domestic
affairs and for business. It gives care and disappointments, struggle on every
side. It will bring competitors in the field against us, old friends will turn from
us or refuse their aid. It may also bring illness and death of parents or friends.
The 8 is especially a very critical time.

O tf Y. * A . Mercury, the planet of the intellect, now receives new force
from the Sun and our consciousness becomes enlarged. It is an excellent time
for all mental work. The spirit works quicker than usuall and adapts ifself

easily; this favourable influence will be of a lasting nature.

O U Q Z ^. Will make the spirit changeable and fickle and may bring us
into unpleasing contact with people that come strongly under . Then aspect
cannot be formed till at the age of about sixty.

O d A * V. $. A very favourable direction, bringing sunshine and love in
life. It is favourable for all material affairs as well as for our feeling and thinking.
It is a happy, agreeable time in which new ties of friendship, especially with
women are being formed; a marriage is probable under this aspect.

O n Q Z $ A bad time as regards financial affairs, a tendency to great
expenses and losses. It brings troubles with women, separations in the

family circle loss of friends. It is for artists especially a difficult time. It

causes one's feelings and emotions to be upset, so one should be careful of

forming attachments during this time.

O A * V. cf. A favourable aspect by which our strength, courage, and spirit
of enterprise is fortified. Under this aspect we come into contact with energetic,
pushful Mars characters, who will influence us in a favourable sense. During
this time we may venture to risk and attempt anything and have the energy
and the power to bring it to a relatively successful conclusion. Beware, however,
of being too impulsive.

O d 8 D etc. cf- A very critical time of which we are likely to be cons-
tantly reminded. It is a time of serious difficulties at home and in the world,
a time in which life is in danger and in which we exposed to misfortunes



184

and all kinds of illnesses of an inflammatory nature, fevers etc. The tf is not
so bad as the other inharmonious aspects. Under these aspects honour and
good name may be in danger. By over-impulsiveness we are inclined to act
without thinking and so cause quarrelling and strife. It is a fight between the
higher and the lower self, the animal qualities in man. By being continually
on our guard against the debasing influence Mars can bring, we can make this
time a good period instead of a fatal and destructive one. It means however
a hard right against the lower self.

O d A * y. is one of the most favourable influences ;
2j. especially when

we have the Q m good aspect to QJ. in the radix, this period will be characterised
by happiness, prosperity, success and good health. The spirit will be jovial,
hearty and inclined to study along religious and philosophic lines. New ties
of friendship will be made. Much depends on the moral standpoint whether this
influence will be made use of in a material or in a spiritual sense, but which-
ever it be, it is advisable to make the most of this time.

O 8 O etc. 2(., A bad direction which may bring legal trouble, enmity of
the church, etc. It is a bad time for financial enterprises and for business people ;

bankcruptcy is not impossible. During this time the character is arrogant,
haughty, boastful (provided there is any tendency to this). The native is super-
cilious and often makes himself appear ridiculous and impossible in the eyes
of others. Monetary losses and adversities of all kinds may be expected.

Q x A etc. ft. A good aspect that makes the spirit more reliable, more
patient and strong. It makes temperate and staid, gives a greater realisation
of responsibility and tends to purer living. It brings a quiet activity and under
this aspect we may expect help from people that will aid us to improve our
position permanently.

O cf 8 D etc. ft. Is a very unfavourable influence for everything, especi-
ally health, as it is weakening to the vitality. It brings difficulties, disappoint-
ments, losses and cares of all kinds and during this influence the spirit is

greatly prone to worry. If bad Moon aspects operate simultaneously there may
be danger to life. Here the positions and aspects in the radix should be espe-
cially considered, because upon these our judgment must depend. Fight depres-
sion as much as possible and do not give way to selfish inclinations.

O cf &- An influence that works quite differently from the A or n 31 and
therefore must be treated apart. During this influence great changes in our
intuitions and our mental powers are denoted, new ties are made, old ones
broken in sudden, unexpected ways. The consciousness is enlarged and we
become aware of the narrow circle in which we have moved so far; we
become open to higher, wider thoughts. Under this influence we come into
contact with peculiar characters and are sometimes placed in extraordinary
positions we should therefore be on our guard.

Q * A etc. $:. A very favourable aspect for our thinking as well as for
material conditions. It brings unexpected advantages in a sudden peculiar way.
We incline to travelling, to change, to reform. It is a very suitable time for
occult study and it will bring us into contact with enlightened people who
will be of service to us in that subject. Upon the whole it is a very peculiar
time, rich in surprises, strange, unforeseen events and remarkable acquaint-
ances. It is a time we should do well to make as much as possible of, to

gather knowledge and experience.



185

O O 8 etc. 9 1
). One of the most unfortunate Sun directions, which brings

all kinds of difficulties and troubles, but in the ultimate they will result in a
rich harvest of experiences and a widening of the consciousness. It is a time
when unexpected obstacles arise in our way and adversities come upon us
in a strange and sudden manner ; a time of mental distress and agitation ;

a time in which our best friends are inclined to leave us. Monetary losses,
loss of friends, failure of enterprises, frustrated wishes. For women especially,
this time is very unfortunate and divorces often occur or miserable marriages
take place under this aspect. We should be on our guard against acting too
impulsively ; prudence in our intercourse with strangers is advisable, for under
this aspect we are brought into contact with very peculiar characters, who may
be a danger to us.

O d W *) A mystical influence which with the majority of mankind will
have no other effect than to give a strange, mystical colour to the character,
a tendency to psychic subjects and romanticism, but with highly evolved per-
sons means a time of inspiration, of high ideals and of universal love for man-
kind. Chaotic dreams occur under this influence, and psychic experiences of
some kind.

Q * A etc. t l
) is a very favourable aspect, a delightful time is ours,

if Neptune is well placed in the radix. Both on the material and on the spirit-
ual plane this influence operates very favourably. It is a time of inspiration
to the artist.

Q 8 etc. t !) is a very bad tune, in which all the lower tendencies
and instincts in the human nature are rebellious and drag man down. It means
a hard fight against our lower tendencies and habits, but if we can succeed in
this fight, this influence will be of great help to us and widen our conscious-
ness in the higher worlds. Under this aspect we should be on our guard
against swindlers and mean people whom we will come into contact with.

Q tf Asc. Brings public activity and public favour. The health may suffer

under this conjunction especially the head and eyes.

O tf~M. C. Favourable for honour and reputation. Distinction and favour
of powerful persons.

O * A etc. Asc. Good health, a peaceful, prosperous time. With a woman
it may denote marriage.

O D 8 etc. Asc. A bad time for health (especially eyes) as well as for

the position one occupies. Possibility of the enmity of powerful persons and
of legal difficulties.

O * A etc. M. C. Honour and success, favour of dignitaries. It means
marriage in a female horoscope.

O O 8 etc. M. C. Loss of position, disgrace, great trouble with superiors,

legal prosecutions, losses or bankcruptcy.

i) How the directions of the O to the mystery-planets ^ and t will express,
depends chiefly on the moral standpoint of the individual.



186

Directions of the Moon. !

)

The directions of the Moon operate about three months when the
aspect falls in a fixed sign or comes from a fixed sign, and less from
the other signs. This may also be applied inversely.

General rule. A good (harmonious) J) direction (A * v sometimes
d and P.) is favourable for the general health (especially if the ]) is

hyleg) and in a mental as well as in a physical sense. It influences the

possessions, the family-affairs, the wife, mother and sisters. The Moon
directions also indicate the types of people with whom we shall come
into contact, during the time the aspect is in operation.

Especially sensitive people, i.e. tho'se who have a watery sign
for Ascendant, or many planets in watery signs and were born towards
midnight, (O, and usually $, near the northern meridian) respond
very strongly to Moon-influences. The D and T? near the northern meridian,
(Nadir) also in the ascendant, denote sensitiveness.

D tf P. O- Usually gives changes in the circumstances of life as well as
in business. This position often leads to marriage. Both with man and with
woman. In general it means promotion and prosperity, though the health often
suffers under this aspect. This is especially the case with a woman where it

may bring about feverish phenomena. Much depends on the Q and]) aspects
in the radix. This direction is the beginning of a new cycle of life under
new conditions and new responsibility.

3) A * Y. O- A very good aspect under which new ties of friendship
are formed, help of influential people and of the parents. Often brings marriage.
The health and the intellect are improved under this influence and success
and prosperity are assured under this aspect. So we should make the utmost
use of this period. The time is favourable for all kind of work especially
along intellectual lines.

I) 8 O L O- Unfavourable time for all enterprises ; bad for health. This
aspect becomes worse from angles or cardinal signs. The spirit is rebellious

during this time and too strongly taken up with itself, and brings about diffi-

culties in the vocation, with superiors, with parents and friends. Circulation
and digestion are often disturbed under this direction.

]) cf A * V. $. Very good aspect for mental work, writing, study, literary
enterprises. It makes the spirit clear, active but also restless, and induces a

longing after change. If g in the radix forms a bad aspect to the ]), or is

otherwise badly aspected, the tf is unfavourable, as it brings to the fore all the
bad qualities that are communicated to by other planets. We should then espe-
cially try not to indulge in the longing after change under this aspect, because
this will not bring improvement.

D 8 D Z Q $ Brings restlessness, cares, many small disagreements,

See footnote p. 181, 182.



187

indicated a.o. by the planets that are in bad aspect to ^. If % is weak, there
is danger of nervous breakdown and brain trouble. Correspondence of importance
should not be dealt with during this time, because we are liable to see and do
things wrongly. It brings troubles through mental work. It would be best to

suppress the desire to travel under this direction.

3) d A * V. $. Under this aspect many betrothals and marriages take

place. The native is inclined to pleasure, company and art. All that is beau-
tiful attracts and charms. It gives an agreeable, peaceful time, a time of pleas-
ant emotions.

D 8 G L Q $. Difficulties with women, children and young people; in

general a time full of disappointment, grief and domestic sorrow. The native is

inclined to let himself lose during this time in the matter of the inclinations
indicated by Venus. With woman it causes periodical irregularities.

D A * V. cf- Signifies an active time, a time full of energy and desire
for work. The spirit is free, open and fearless. Those who hold positions
that come under J>, in particular find their business flourish during this time.
With women a quick marriage or engagement often occurs under this aspect.
Under this Mars influence a journey is often undertaken; it is a favourable
time for it.

D d 8 D L Q 6- When rf is in ill aspect to the Moon at birth, this

direction frequently gives wounds, accidents and ailments of a feverish, inflam-

matory nature and sometimes brings death. It gives impulse and recklessness
and if cf is in an angle, the period of influence seldom goes by without loss
of blood. The good name often suffers through slander. By striving with all

our force of will against impulsiveness in action and speech, we may pass
through this time, without any too disagreeable experiences. It may bring diffi-

culties with the other sex. We should therefore be careful during this direction.

I) d A * Y. 2|~ A very good aspect that brings promotion, success and
prosperity in everything. It is one of the most favourable directions under
which to begin new enterprises. The health is good the body expands as
it were, under the Jupiter-action. During the operation of this aspect new
friendships are formed, and good things accrue from all sides. All one does
during this time is good as a rule, it is therefore wise, to make the very
utmost use of it. Under this favourable fty influence even the greatest pessimist
will have to admit that life is not so bad after all.

3) D Z Q 2|- It is bad time for business, for beginning new enterprises.
The native is arrogant and inclined to spend more than he can afford, so that

economy during this time is to be recommended. It may bring into dis-

agreeable contact with law or church. The health may suffer because the blood
and the circulation are in disorder. It is also unfavourable for domestic affairs.

3) * A etc. ft. This direction brings us into contact with older people and
brings help and support from them. It is a good time for doing business, and
for the study of all that has to do with the earth, and the mineral kingdom.
Under this direction we are inclined to act and to work with more tact, care
and accuracy than usual. It brings a calm equilibrium into the health. It' is a
favourable time to endeavour to obtain a position of permanency.



188

D c< D 8 etc. T? is a very unfortunate direction which brings sorrow,
depression, melancholy, disappointments, adversities, disillusion, losses and
weakened health. What nature this will take, is indicated by house and sign.
When the horoscope indicates poor health, this direction will bring illness in
the form of colds, rheumatism etc. We should fight with all our might against
depression. Beware as much as possible of older people and Saturn-types,
for discord with them is most probable.

J> * A etc. $:. Sudden changes of a favourable nature are indicated, often
also a journey. The spirit is clear, original, and eccentric. The native feels
more strongly attracted to the other sex during this time. Those that have
latent psychic talents will, during this aspect, be able to gain wonderful expe-
riences on higher planes; for l is the planet of clairvoyance. They will pro-
bably have visions. The most conservative man is inclined under this aspect
to think and speak more liberal. It is a good time for studying occult sciences,
to which one will then feel strongly attracted.

3) c/ D 8 etc. i. A very critical period, for the health as well as for the
calling, honour and good name. It is a time of nervous strain, the spirit is

critical, and to a high degree changeable. Adversities and accidents befall us
as sudden as a lightning flash during this time. It would be best to seclude
ourselves during this period as much as possible and to try to force ourselves to
calmness. All changes undertaken during this time are likely to be regretted
later on, so beware of impulsive action! Changes in a progressive direction

may be desirable and useful under this aspect.

]) d * A etc. t. The d is favourable or unfavourable according to the
position of tjr in the radix. It is a time in which the spirit is sensitive to

psychic impressions, which may express themselves as predictive dreams,
strange impressions from another world, impressions that have a most peculiar
charm. For the highly evolved and psychically inclined it is a very favourable
aspect, also for the artist. It brings inspiration. Strange acquaintances may
be expected.

3) c/ Q 8 etc. * may bring us into disagreeable contact with swindlers
and clever deceivers. It brings us into contact with strange types and we
should be especially on our guard during this time. This aspect may as well
bring psychic experiences, not usually, however, of a very agreeable nature.

3) cf Asc. brings changes, and often disturbances in the health, of a cold,
watery nature.

}) cf M. C. brings changes affecting the calling, the honour and reputation,
according to the nature of the ruling Q aspects (progr.) and according to
whether the ^) in the radix aspects the M. C. or not.

J> A * Y.. Asc. and M. C. brings favourable changes, popularity, good
standing in connection with public institutions and societies; and help and
support of women in affairs relating to the Asc. and the M. C.

D D 8 etc. Asc. and M. C. The reverse. A bad time for changes and jour-
neys. Adversities and deceptions in affairs relating to the Asc. and the M. C.



189

Directions of J
Mercury. )

$ tf * V. $. Favourable time for practising art, when the inclination and
talent for it are present. An artist gets his best inspirations at this time. The
spirit is inclined to mirth and witticism.

$ L $ brings disagreements and trouble in connection with music, the
2

plastic arts, poetry. )

of A * 1

etc. d . Makes the native clever and witty and gives mental
energy. The tf is favourable if and cf aspect each other well in the radix.

5 d 8 D 1

etc. <$. The tf is unfavourable if and d aspect each other ill

in the radix. This direction brings quarrels, makes the native passionate, and
arouses his temper, and, if the radix denote this tendency mendacious and
dishonest. We should beware of acting impulsively and should leave our
correspondence for a calmer moment.

d' A * etc. 2J.- Distinction in literature or in public speaking and gain
through them. It ennobles and refines the spirit, makes honest and upright and
is a great help with all mental work. Under this good influence we should do
as much of our work as possible.

$ D 8 etc. 2j.. This aspect is inclined to make the spirit hasty, vain,
arrogant and boastful. We should be on our guard not to give way to this

influence and should be careful in our judgments, because we are inclined to

judge wrongly.

$ * A etc. b. A very good aspect under which the spirit is earnest, accu-
rate and dutiful. A good time for important correspondence and for profound
study. Under this influence we can concentrate our thoughts better than usual.

d 8 D etc. b.. A disagreeable time, in which the spirit is inclined to

worry and to distrust everything. A bad time for having dealings with old

people. We should be careful in all our doings and goings; for during this

period we are liable to be wrongly judged and to be slandered. It is a time of

disappointments and mental depression.

$ d * A etc. Jjc. Expands the spirit, makes original and inventive, clever
and impulsive. Brings occult study, and especially the study of human nature.

$ D 8 etc. $:. Gives difficulties in connection with literary work, excites
the animosity of the press, criticism; it makes the spirit sarcastic, sharp and
unreasonable. It also brings into contact with occultism. With women this

aspect may lead to hysteria. We should guard ourselves with all our might
against too great an impulsiveness.

^ and ty. Every aspect attracts to mysticism but little can be said of this
with certainty. It depends entirely on the evolution of the individual.

1) S-ee note p. 181, 182.

2) Other progressive aspects cannot be formed between 8 and



190

Directions of Venus. 1
)

$ A * etc. tf. This aspect brings great love for pleasure and society and
strong attraction to the other sex. It arouses the passions and is therefore not
a very good aspect. Upon the whole it means an agreeable, harmonious time.

$ d 8 D etc. tf. Brings troubles and quarrels with the other sex. A very
bad aspect for domestic peace, especially if the aspect falls in 7 or 4. It arouses
the passions and it depends quite on the moral strength of the native, how
this aspect will express itself.

$ cf A * etc. 2J.. A very good aspect that brings success and friendship
especially of women. For artists a time not to be forgotten. It arouses feelings
of sympathy and love and makes us generous and devoted.

$ 8 D etc. 2|. is an aspect that causes separations and that is disadvant-
ageous to all legal affairs. It may further bring us into trouble with the church,
and this aspect usually causes domestic discord.

$ A * etc. ft is a favourable aspect for moral growth, because it brings
our feelings and emotions in equilibrium and makes them more constant. It

brings us lasting friendship, honour, credit and is very favourable for the health.
It is a quiet, agreeable time.

$ 8 D etc. ft brings many disillusions, cares, separations as well as finan-
cial losses and attacks from secret enemies, who would hurt our good repu-
tation. It is a time in which we need to carefully weigh each word we utter.

$ A * etc. $: will bring unexpected advantages, both financial and in our

position. It brings us new acquaintances and friends that will be of service to
us and make us acquainted with occult sciences, especially Astrology. It is

an excellent time for the study of this subject.

9 D 8 etc. $: will bring separations and estrangements. The feelings and
emotions are very strong under this direction and we incline to foolish actions
under their influence. For women especially it is a very critical time, in which
they need to look before they leap, a time when all sudden changes are
to be deprecated.

$ of $. The conjunction is not so unfavourable as the and D, it inclines
to the sudden formation of ties of friendship and the nature of these will depend
on the position and the aspects of J. It gives idealism and power of imagina-
tion and arouses the feelings.

$ 3 t i.e. the union of the higher, universal, and the lower love. May lead
to platonic ties of love and will in any case contribute to ennoble and refine

the love and the emotions.

$ A * etc. t. May have the same effect and in any case means a very
harmonious, happy time in which high, idealistic feelings play a great part.

Especially is this a time that artists will remember.

See note p. 181, 182.



191

$ D 8 etc. t signifies as it were a fight between the lower self and the
universal love of mankind; to him who is still engrossed with the former, it

will be a time of great care in which he must be constantly on his guard
against the people he comes into contact with. The higher evolved man may
take a great step onward under this aspect.

Of the remaining planets the directions of Mars by progression are

particularly to be considered. It will not be necessary, after the foregoing,
to go into detail here, because we can study the action of these pro-
gressions of Mars by tracing the aspects of this planet in conformity
with their action. (See p. 130133).

The aspects formed by progression between the slow planets SJ., r),

^ and tp, take so many years for their formation and separation, that
the action does not express itself as distinctly as with the speedier
planets. It will, moreover, be easy for each to make these combinations
for himself.

Of all directions, revolutions etc. that we have treated in the prece-
ding chapters, the progressive aspects of the Q and 3) (the Q and ])
directions with the planets) are to us the most important. The
]) directions especially in the first half of life

; those of the Q in the
second. We have also seen that with woman and further with sensitive
natures the Moon-directions are always a great factor.

We had better, for the present keep to the progressive aspects of

O, 1) and planets only and leave all other directions out of considera-
1

tion, except the transits of $:, r?, 2|. f and d . For the mutual directions
of the progr. planets the same holds good as for those with the radix

position. Their action is more pronounced according as the native is

more progressive.
The Sun-directions are often brought to action by a suitable Moon-

direction and the Moon-directions usually by a Lunation, or by a con-
formable Moon-aspect by transit. The latter is indicated through the

day-horoscope, which is dealt with on p. 160.

Example to illustrate the Planetary Influences.

The following, taken from Sepharial and abbreviated, shows distinctly,
how in everything the Cosmic law is working. They are a few examples
from the great 'Titanic'-drama, which filled all the world with awe in

the year 1912. This is not the place to give an explanation why this

disaster should occur, and cost the lives of hundreds of people. Those



192

who reflect on this and who know what life and evolution mean, realising
that life in reality cannot be destroyed, will be able to find the solution
himself.

The Titanic was launched on May 31st 1911 at Belfast at 12.42p.m.
G. M. T., a moment when, as Sepharial has it, "the whole amphi-
theatre of the heavens was witness to the indications of the impending
danger."

The "Titanic launched First voyage "Titanic" to Southampton
May 31st 1911. Apr. 2nd 1912.

Departure "Titanic" for America Birth-Horoscope W. T. Stead
April 10th 1912. July 5th 1849, 7. a.m.



193

The 19th degree of np was rising at Belfast. 5 the ruler of the horo-
scope, in the 9th (the house of long voyages), in tf to ft, the indicator
of difficulties, obstacles, obstructions. Both planets were in 8 to 2(.. The
Moon in the watery (ocean) sign 25 going to the 8 of $i, the symbol
of sudden catastrophes.

The Titanic began its voyage to Southampton in order to be freighted on
April 2nd 1912 at 9.20 a. m. The sign 25 was rising and the D the ruler of
the horoscope. The D is in 8 to the Q and in D aspect to t? in 25,

just under the horizon. The ruler of the horoscope therefore is separat-
ing from an eclipse and approaching a bad aspect to ^, the traditional
ruler of the ocean. The Titanic left Southampton and commenced its

great voyage across the ocean at noon Apr. 10th 1912. The sign Q, is

rising and the ruler the is in D aspect to tp in 12, the house
of secret enemies or of hidden danger.

Again and again therefore we find the ruler strongly and signifi-

cantly afflicted.

There is more, specially relating to the Titanic, viz. at the moment
of the transit of the Sun through the equinox shortly before the depart-
ure of the Titanic, t was in the 8th house (house of death) in D to
the O and this position is repeated with the same aspect on April
10th the day of departure.

One of the best-known passengers was W. T. Stead. According to
his own information he was born on July 5th 1849, "before breakfast"

(see horoscope drawn up for 7. a. m. and corrected).
Here we find the ruler, the O in the watery sign 25, afflicted by

the 8 of the D and a D T? from the 9th house, the house of voyages.
t is in the 8th house (death) in the watery sign 3C.

Ptolomy says that an unnatural death is indicated when both lumi-
naries are afflicted by the same malefic, or when the two luminaries

separately are afflicted and receive no help from $ or 2|.. We see it

here. The affliction of ft from the house of voyages indicates clearly
that Stead was to die in a foreign place, while travelling, through
and accident.

The horoscope shows five planets in cardinal signs, with d* in M. C.

indicating the indefatigable energy, initiative and courage for which he
was known. We see clearly indicated that great enthusiasm, that
disdain of the consequences, this pioneering spirit. Stead edited a
periodical for psychical research ("Borderland") but with ft in 9th,
the house of philosophy, afflicted by O and J), we cannot place any
great value upon his philosophical researches, nor expect any great
success in this line, though $ A $ would inevitably take him strongly
into those subjects.

At the moment of the disaster the following directions were operat-
1

ing- D 8 #, O cf $ 3) P. d and by progression the }) in Stead's horo-

scope had come to 26 V, exactly to the tf iff- in his radix horoscope.
Captain Smith of the Titanic was born at Handley on Jan. 27th 1850.

13



194

Here 1

also we find at birth the Q 8 3) and both afflicted by d . The time
of birth was about 5 a.m. ty is again in the 8th house and r? and $: in 9 '.

62 days (years) after the birth, $ had reached the M. C. of the horo-

scope, and on the day of the disaster $ went by transit across that

point; while on April 17th a Suneclipse fell in V 27, close to the M. C.
of Smith's and Stead's horoscopes. The 3) was in Smith's horoscope in
4 Q, and on the day of the disaster $: by transit was exactly in oppo-
sition to it, viz. in 4 sz.

Moreover at the moment when the Titanic left Belfast, the 5th degree
of 23 was 1

rising and d was in exactly the same place, in 4 56' 23.
This is briefly what Sepharial has written of it. Other particu-

lars, with horoscopes of other passengers will be found in various astro-

logical periodicals. The foregoing will be sufficient to show the relation
that exists between the aspects in the Cosmos and the occurrences in

the sub-lunary world.

Countries and Towns coming under the Different Signs of the Zodiac.

Not only man as a separate being comes under the influence of

signs and planets, but also nations, countries and towns. The occul-
tist knows that there is a Karma not only for the individual man,
but also for a nation, a tribe and a country. All the little things
separate entities are part of the greater (the Great). The influences
in the Great must react on the less. Thus England, for instance,
is ruled by Aries, consequently we may be sure that during the pass-
age of Saturn through that sign England would have to struggle through
hard times. Saturn passed through Aries 128990, 1320, 1349, 137980,
1408, 1437, 1466, 1496, 1555, 1584, 1643, 1702, 1761, 1790, 1820, 1849, 1879.

Consulting history we find these periods coincide with outbreaks of

war, rebellion, religious persecution, trade depression or other tribulation
in which we can distinctly see the result of cosmic influences.

That the Saturn-action operates so strongly every 29 or 30 years ; and
sometimes is scarcely felt, may be explained for the greater part by the
simultaneous, neutralising, favourable Jupiter influences.

Here follows a list of countries and towns, the different signs under
which they come and which rule them.

Under V.

Countries. England, Denmark, Poland-Minor, Burgundy, Syria, parts
of Palestine.

Towns. Birmingham, Leicester, Florence, Naples, Verona, Padua,
Marseilles, Capua, Brunswick, Crakow, Utrecht, Zaragossa.



195

Under

Countries. Ireland, Persia, Poland, Asia-Minor, the Greek Archipelago,
Cypress, White-Russia.

Towns. Dublin, Leipsic, Parma, Palermo, Rhodes, St. Louis, Mantua.

Under n.

Countries. U. S. of America, Belgium, Braband, Lombardy, Lower-
Egypt, Sardinia, West-England, Armenia, Tripoli, Flanders, Wales, parts
of Palestine.

/
Towns. London (1754 ), Plymouth, Melbourne (10 29') Bruges, Cor-

dova, Metz, Nuremberg, Versailles, Louvain, San-Francisco.

Under 55.

Countries. Holland, Scotland, Sealand, N. & W. Africa, Mauritius.
Towns. Amsterdam, Tunis, Algiers, York, Venice, Bern, Liibeck,

Magdeburg, Milan, New-York, Manchester, Stockholm, Constantinople,
Genoa.

Under &.

Countries. France, Italy, Bohemia, California, Sicily, Chaldea up to

Bassorah, the N. of Roumenia, the Alps, the region of Tyrus and Sidon.
Towns. Rome, Bristol, Portsmouth, Philadelphia, Prague, Ravenna,

Damask, Chicago (1st dec.), Bombay (2nd dec.).

Under ttp.

Countries. Turkey, Switzerland, West-India, Assyria, Mesopotamia
(from Tigris up to Euphrates), Greta, Silesia, Babylon, Morea, Thessalia,
Kurdestan, parts of Greece, Virginia, the Brasils.

Towns. Jerusalem, Corinth, Paris (29), Lyons, Toulouse, Cheltenham,
Heidelberg, Norwich, Boston, Strasburg, Brindisi.

Under ==.

Countries. Austria, Indo-China, Thibet, Caspic Sea and environs,
Upper-Egypt, Savoye, North-China, Birma, Argentinia.

Towns. Antwerp (21), Charleston, Frankfurt on the M., Freiburg,
Vienna, Lisbon, Johannesburg (27), Copenhagen (1).

Under til.

Countries. Algeria, Prussia, Bavaria, Cappadocia, Judea, Jutland,
Marocco, Norway, N.-Syria, the Transvaal, Catalonia, Queensland.

Towns. Frankfurt on the O., Dover, Liverpool, Messina (18), N.-Or-
leans, Washington D. C., Baltimore, Hull, Milwaukee (7), St. John's,
New-Foundland (2), Halifax, Newcastle, Cincinati.



196

Under

Countries. Arabia, Australia, Cape Finistere, Dalmatia, Hungary,
Moravia, Slavonia, Spain, Tuscany, Provence, Madagascar.

Towns. Avignon, Cologne, Stuttgart, Nottingham, Sheffield, Toledo,
Bradford.

Under X.

Countries. British India, Afghanistan, Thracia, Macedonia, Morea,
Illyria, Albany, Bosnia, Bulgary, Greece, Hessen, S. W. Saxony, Meck-
lenburg, Mexico.

Towns. Oxford, Port-Said, Brandeburg, Constanz, Brussels.

Under zz.

Countries. Arabia, Red-Russia, Sweden. Westphalia, Wallachia, Abys-
sinia.

Towns. Los Angelos (California), Bremen, Salzburg, Hamburg, Salis-

bury, Brighton, Ingolstadt.

Under 3C.

Countries. Portugal, Calabria, Galicia, Normandy, Nubia, the Sahara.
Towns. Alexandria, Worms, Sevilla, Ratisbon, Grimsby, Southport,

Lancaster, Kings's Lynn, Preston, Cowes, Bournemouth.

Though the type of the body and the foundation of the character of
different nations that come under the same sign, is the same, difference

enough may, of course, be noticed, caused not only by race and natio-

nality, but also by many kinds of by-circumstances, such as mode of

living, habits, struggle for existence etc.

This is clearly seen e.g. if we take the Londoner and the American,
both n types. The race may be quite the same here, both speak one
language, both are business people, both have a tall slim body (the
American is somewhat heavier built), dark hair, the typical Gemini nose
and the Gemini hustle and audacity. But for the rest what a difference
between the polite, courteous well-mannered Londoner, who even says
"thank you" when he offers you something and who is always "sorry",
even if he has not put a straw in your way, and the usually man-
nerless' American who calmly goes on gum-chewing, even if he is at
an audience. Next, what a difference of opinion about their views on
'mine' and 'thine'! This was once typified by a Dutch lady living in

America; she expressed it thus. BThe standpoint of the Yankee is: mine
is mine and yours is also mine."

The Mercury influence in this country is strongly blended with an
unfavourable Saturn and Mars influence, through which this type may
become decidedly dangerous.

These influences however, operate favourably in other respects viz.

Mars gives energy and spirit of enterprise and Saturn gives the Yankee



197

a degree of self-control which he applies where it will serve him in

good stead.
I once saw an admirable specimen of this in California. An old gent-

leman, wishing to cross a crowded, muddy street, was knocked down
by the bicycle of a butcher's boy, which made an awful mess of his
toilet. The old gentleman clenched his fists, but perceiving the person
who had played him this trick and immediately realising that flying
in a rage would make the matter worse, he said, smiling politely
"excuse me" and walked off. I could not help lifting my hat to that
man, a thing one seldom does in America.

Compare the German, especially the Prussian type, to the English
Aries-type. Mars is the ruler in both cases, but the difference is very
striking. Everything, including the sentimentalism in the German character
points to the watery sign Scorpio.

Here also we cannot generalise ; viz. there are regions in Germany
that come strongly under Taurus, there we find the heavy-built, thick-set

type with the hind part of the head and the heavy bull-neck falling in
one straight line, with the skull but little developed. Berlin e.g. comes
strongly under Gemini, next to Scorpio. This shows clearly in the younger
generation, where the slyness, the impudence and arrogance of Gemini
go hand in hand with the masterfulness and J

despotism of Scorpio. )
The boy is bullied by the servant, the servant by the "Ober", the
"Ober" by the principal, the inferior cringes to the superior. Even
the German way of writing shows ni. Many people bring Germany
under Aries wrongly in our firm opinion.

How strong the influence of a country is on the form of the body,
appears a.o. in America. The children of pure Italian and Southern French
parents (so of roundheaded races) born in America, get the long,
American face with somewhat bent nose. The body also becomes more
attenuated. The same may be seen in the Dutch colonies in Michigan
and other parts of the U. S. where many Dutch people live. Many from
the North of Groningen have round, fleshy faces and flaxen hair. Their
children on the other hand, show the American type for the greater
part Even the colour of the hair becomes darker.

It is peculiar that with Germans the original type seems to be retained

longer. Likewise with the Russians. On a journey through the different
states of America we noticed the same amongst Danes and Norwegians.

By tracing regularly the events that take place in the different coun-
tries and towns, coming under 1

signs through which ft and d in their
revolution through the 12 zodiacal signs, go, we can find the degree
to which the place is specially sensitive (just as this is known for e.g.

!) This type that strikes one everywhere by its disagreeable impudence and
troublesome, noisy, showy ways migrates readily hence its being met with
everywhere in Germany, especially in the North. In fact it is ubiquitous, and endan-
gers the good reputation of the otherwise docile and kind-hearted German (I do
not here speak of the youthful German).



198

London, Messina, Melbourne). To know this is of great help in making
predictions relating to the places.

Every place and region has its horoscope, it is extraordinarily
difficult to find it out.

The Zodiac of the Head.

We have never been able to discover any sound reason why the
Zodiac of the Head should be commenced with V in the place where in

fig. I the sign n is and that the first 30 then are called the individuality.
In our opinion we are nearer the truth when we strictly observe

what occult philosophy teaches us, viz. that the seat of the individuality
(the Ego) is found in the forehead, above the bridge of the nose. If we
viz. place this point just within the Aries sign and begin this sign with
the upper edge of the forehead, we get a division agreeing completely,
not only with the qualities of the signs, but also with the division of
the skull as phrenology gives it.

The sign Aries represents the head in the Zodiac of the "Great Man"
and for this reason alone we must conclude that this sign (in the Zodiac
of the head) must represent that part in which the intellect is seated
viz. the frontal lobe of the cerebrum.

In fig. I the front (forehead the parietal (side), the temporal (the
temples) and the occipital (occiput), lobes of the cerebrum are indicated

by the letters A, B, C, and D. The part under it, shaded, represents the
cerebellum. Now, if we trace the division, beginning at the sign
Libra (=0=) we see, that in

Libra falls the part of the neck that contains the prolonged spinal
marrow (the medulla oblongata) which together with the entire system
of spinal marrow and spinal marrow nerves have their origin here and
may be regarded as the organ by which man is enabled to stand erect
and retain his equilibrium. Moreover the lower part of the cerebellum
that is in phrenology indicated by the sense of love ($), falls in this sign.

Scorpio contains the cerebellum, the seat of passions and desires,
in astrology the sign of generation. In phrenology this part is indicated
as the centre of generation, the seat of domesticity and of sensual
love ($ + d).

This part extends to behind the ear and a prominence behind the ear

always denotes a strong Mars-nature (impulsiveness, passion, vitality).

Sagittarius represents in the phrenological map the place where the
sense of freedom, combativeness and friendship are found, these agreeing
to the qualities of . The prominence of combativeness continues from
the prominence behind the ear (KI) (see fig. II, 24). Here we have a com-
bination of 2J. and cf.



Fig. 1. The Zodiac of the Head.
!) Welwillendheid = Benevolence; Eigenwaarde en Zelfzucht = Self-assertion

and Egoism; Vriendschap en Strijdlust = Friendship and Combativeness ; Huiselijk-
heid en Sensualiteit = Domesticity and Sensuality; Evenwicht = Equilibrium.

Fig. II. Fig. m.
2
) Verstandsgroep = Intellectual group; Moreele groep = Moral group; Groep

d.
= Eerzucht = Group of Ambition; Zelfzuchtig = Selfish; Groep v. h. familieleven

Group of Domestic life; Edel = Noble.



200

Capricorn comes in the place where prudence, selfishness, the striving
to attain a high position and a strong self-assertiveness is centred a com-
bination of ;? and the reflex of the sign |, that exerts its influence more
strongly here than in the opposite sign 2z. So a combination of r? and
Q. The part that represents prudence (17) extends to Aquarius.

Aquarius is the first sign of the moral group which divides into the
noble and the selfish sides (fig. Ill), the former ruled by 2|. and Q the

1

latter by d (20). Aquarius here rules prudence, constancy, carefulness,
spirituality (idealism) and partly reverence (ft and 2|.)-

In Pisces come the qualities reverence, hopefulness, spirituality,
benevolence, all Jupiter qualities, blended with Sun influence (2J. and O)-

Aries rules the intellectual centres in the forehead (see fig. I and III).

Taurus, the lower part of the skull, that is indicated by $ ^ (fig. I)
and with 1, 1, 1 (fig. II), centre of the senses of shape, colour, measure,
indicating the talent of Taurus for art. Further the bridge of the nose,
that part which with the Taurus-type is always so characteristic, viz.
the short, straight nose, very deeply planted. This characteristic appears
exceedingly strong with Taurus-dwarfs and deformed people. The reaction
of Taurus is seen in the opposite sign ni, which according to this plan
governs the neck.

Gemini contains the nose with upper lip and the upper part of the
mouth, the breathing (air) and vocal organs.

The long, thin, bent shape of the nose is one of the characteristics
of Gemini, as also his seldom resting organ of speech.

Cancer represents the mouth (lower part) i.e. the upper half of the
chin and the organs of digestion in its early stages (the stomach).

Under Leo comes the lower part of the chin and the front part of
the throat where are the chief arteries that supply and carry off the
blood; carotis (neck-artery) and jugularis (neck-vein).

Virgo becomes ruler of the region connected with the nutrition viz.
the gullet and the chewing muscles (ttp and nutrition).

The physical development begins in its two phases, the mascu-
line, positive one and the feminine, negative one, respectively with the
cerebrum and the cerebellum, which may be represented symboli-
cally by O and 3). Here is meant of course the moment when the
consciousness in its various forms begins to influence the development
of the parts of the body; while these by their action which at first

is only reflex action on stimuli help again to further develop the
centres of consciousness, therefore a mutual aid. The beginning of the
real physical development is much earlier, viz. at a time when there
could be no question of a proper expression of consciousness.

Thus gradually by the influence of the Zodiacal signs in connection
with the working of the consciousness of the individual, the physical
body the reflex of the Ego comes into existence.

The Sun and Moon of the Zodiac of the brains are symbolised by



201

two organs, indicated in the figure by dotted lines (x and y). They are
the coronarium and the pituitary gland (hypophysis cerebri).

The anatomists and physiologers know very little of them as yet
and pathology tells us that they may increase greatly in size with
certain mysterious diseases and show special symptons of degeneration.
Occultism teaches us that the coronarium in the earlier stages of evolu-
tion was the sense of seeing, serving for observation on higher planes
than we are conscious of.

It is remarkable that a certain kind of lizard is to be found that still

possesses an identical organ in the shape of a third, rudimentary eye,
situated in the middle of the head. During the fetal life there exists a
connection between this mysterious brain-appendix and the third brain-
chamber.

Occultism tells us that in the future these organs will again develop
and become the 6th and 7th senses, that of clairvoyance ($:) and
that of clairaudience or clairfeeling (t).

Figure II represents the phrenological map of the head.

1, 1, 1, are the prominences for 14 is the seat of carefulness,

shape, colour, weight, measure, 15 selfishness and self-asser-
number. tion.

2 is the place of the individuality. 16 desire for approbation.
3 comparison and intuition. 17 cautiousness.

causality. 18 secretiveness.
cheerfulness. 19 capability of learning,
sense of construction. 20 destructive faculty,
benevolence. 21 , attachment.
imitation. 22 friendship.

9 idealism. 23 aggressiveness.
10 reverence. 24 vitality, combativeness.
11 spiritualisation. 25 love for married life, for
12 eminence, nobility. offspring, amorousness,
13 constancy. sensuality.

Figure III indicates the principal division into 4 groups, three for
the cerebrum, and one for the cerebellum.

The Zodiac of the Eye.

We can find the expression of the zodiacal signs not only in the
different parts of the skull and the conformable parts of the brain, in
the mounts and lines of the hand, but also in the various subdivisions
of the face. Nowhere however is it expressed so completely as in the
eye and especially in the Iris.



202

On this fact is founded the 1
Eye-diagnostics ) i.e. the science of

ascertaining the nature and seat of a disease of different parts of the

body from discolourings and other indications in the Iris. It is not merely
a knowledge accepted by the laity, but it is nowadays put into regular
practice by a great number of medical men.

Ignaz Peczely, a Hungarian, discovered this method. When a boy,
he once caught a large owl. The bird defended himself furiously and
clawed his talons deep into Ignaz' hand. In order to free himself of the
clutch, the boy was compelled to break the leg of the owl with his free
hand. The moment he did so, he saw a dark stripe shoot through the
lower part of the owl's eye (through the Iris) and at the same side
where he had caused the fracture. He dressed the leg, which after some
time recovered and he now noticed that according as the process of

curing advanced, the dark line became surrounded by a narrow light-
coloured line, as it were wrapping the sick place round with a
protective layer.

This event from his boyhood was recalled to his mind by another
observation bearing upon it, when he had just finished his study as
doctor of medicine. This began his reseach in this line, which ended
in giving quite a new method of diagnostics. Gradually he got to know
the exact places in the Iris in which the different parts of the body are
indicated (see diagram) by observation of his patients.

Quite independently of astrology he arrived at the division of the
circle of the Iris into 12 equal parts, each of 30 (the 12 zodiacal signs)
and to subdivide each part of 30 into 3 parts, each of 10 (the decanates).

It is extremely interesting to study his observations in relaiton to

Astrology. He shows that the blue colour of the Iris is the only true
colour for the Indo-European race, how all newly-born children have
blue eyes, how with a bad condition of health the Iris becomes
darker, how the ideal colour is the light sky-blue and how the brown
and mixed variegations denote a less strong constitution, are in

reality symptoms of degeneration etc.

When he speaks here of symptoms of degeneration, meaning the
brown pigment in the eyes, this refers to a pure race of blue-eyed people
and it may be doubted whether he does not go too far here in his con-
clusions. There are, indeed, pronounced brown-eyed races, born with
blue eyes though they may be, and by mingling of races, varieties must
undoubtedly appear.

Peczely relates that many remedies leave a lasting trace in the

!) Cf. the work of Dr. N. Liljequist, "Die Diagnose aus den Augen". How far the
eye-diagnostics may be used in practice, we do not consider. Nor do we care what too
impulsive and prejudiced opponents say of it. A thorough research into this branch
of medical science will probably make them realise that at least the basis of it is

true and that is what most matters here.
By reading the following pages in connection with what has been said before

in the book, the why will here also become clear.



203

Iris, and so do the different organic diseases. He says that in the

variegations of the colour of the Iris the condition of our mind is shown
with absolute accuracy.

To the expression "the 'eye is the mirror of the soul" we may there-
fore add according to this doctrine, "and of the body".

Why must all that happens to the body be expressed in the Iris?
For the same reason-that in man everything which happens in the Cosmos,
is reflected. This becomes clear to us when we consider man as the
Cosmos of the eye (which therefore represents the microcosmos then)
and by doing so we may go a step further and say: "In the eye the
cosmos of the individual reflects at the moment when he was born plus
the progressive changes that have taken place therein since that

point of time.

There will be no need to point out that the reflexion of the Cosmos
also takes place in every part of the body, but the Iris lends itself best
to observation. Chiromancy or palmistry is founded on the same principle.

Some people have the gift of deciphering these cosmic hieroglyphs
in a higher degree than others what is as clear as daylight to one

;

is a sealed book to another; which however does not alter the fact that
the latter often claims the right to criticize the former and call him fanciful.

Let us regard the figure on the next page. The numbers on the right
and left arm and r. and 1. leg denote:



204

ff
|7.|l|

11 1|1
gf 5.->

8
.y Ssi..f45iitoJ5- ...

oo 4)

e *
J i



205

Ann. Leg.
4. Shoulder-joint. 9. Hipjoint. 1). Navel.
5. Upper arm. 10. Thigh. 2). R. Testicle.
6. Lower arm. 11. Knee. 3). L. Testicle.
7. Hand. 12. Lower shin. 4). Blind gut.
8. Finger. 13. Foot.

14. Toes.

The upper part of the diagram (4 decanates) is occupied by the
cerebrum, and outside it (1 decanate) is the place of the cerebellum.
The Nadir is occupied by the r. and 1. leg and following the diagram
from the Zenith to Nadir we see the resp. parts of the body follow
each other in regular succession.

The dark spot in the centre represents the Pupil of the eye and
round it group stomach and intestines, while outside them in the left

eye the place of the heart is indicated. The circle surrounding the figure
(the outer half of it) i.e. the outer edge of the Iris, is the place where
diseases of the skin are indicated.

In a book on astrology it is not the place to digress on eye-diag-
nostics, but we cannot refrain from giving a reproduced diagram for expla-
nation, in which the characteristic delineations in the Iris are shown as

they may present themselves with different sickly affections. With the

help of the large diagram it will be easy to conclude the nature of the
illness from the place where it occurs in the Iris.

R. Iris. (Different L. Iris.
Delineations.)

The reason why we insert this diagram is the following. We tried to
make clear on p. 20 etc. that we, by living out of harmony with the
Cosmos, as it were, exclude ourselves from the only source of life and
harmony, and it is this exclusion which is so to speak, portrayed by the
delineations of the Iris. An illness has often been compared to a safety
valve which is opened, and such it is in the most literal sense.



206

Because by our wrong characteristics and habits we are not in har-

mony with the Whole of which we form a part, we exclude ourselves
from it, and as this is an exclusion from the Source of life, it would
have to mean physical death to us, expulsion of our physical body.
Now this does not take place, an organ e.g. becomes ill and that sick

organ shows in our eye as a seclusion, a separation of the healthy part
of the Iris. When recovery follows we see a white line forming round
the separated part thus as it were forming a new union of the two.
The separation was only temporary and the bond between the micro-
cosmos and the Cosmos has grown tighter. If we apply this to man and
the Cosmos we can imagine that here not only a material but also a
mental process of recovery took place.

Had the organ perished and so become expelled, this would have
left a lasting defect in the Iris and the characteristic that was the cause
of the illness would not have been improved, had to wait therefore
till a following incarnation to be taken in hand. Every illness therefore
is a process of recovery for the soul.

Astrology and Medicine.

"The man who is ignorant of the
science of astrology, deserves the name
of fool rather than that of physician."

HIPPOCRATES.

As we observed before, astrology may be of incalculable use in me-
dicine, as regards diagnostics as well as therapeutics and prognosis.

People begin to see this again here and there, especially in the
United States ; but also in England and France there are many medical
men that combine astrology and medicine and thrive, as well as their

patients. In Holland also the doctors will have to dismount from their

pedestal (or is it a mounting rather?) in order to throw light by this

combination in the numerous obscure cases that are now directed to

the lumber-room nnerves, paralysing of the heart and complications."
Moreover astrology wants the medical men, because they, having

often the opportunity of tracing the progress and the exact time of

births, may throw a light on various questions regarding the birth and
the sex, in which Ptolomy has indicated the way to us.

Especially as regards teratology, interesting studies may be made.
We know the aspects under which deformities often occur, but espe-
cially with these teratological products it is decidedly needful to know
the exact time of birth, seeing that the afflictions of the cusps mean
so much here.

By making notes on the births, the medical men would know by



207

simple calculation when the native is subjected to special inharmonious
influences and they might work prophylactically by prescribing a definite
mode of living during the time the influence is working. How much
disease and misery might not be averted in this way!

They would know by studying astrology that e.g. a person cannot
be operated free of danger, on the day when the Moon is in the sign
representing the sick part of the body. They would choose the right
astrological time for their operations and by that enlarge the chances
of recovery, or at any rate hasten the process of recovery, while they
expose the patient to the reverse when they choose the most unfa-
vourable day. Investigate how the evidently inexplicable success of some
surgeons for a great part is connected with the fact that they intuiti-

vely quite unconscious therefore choose the right time for their

operations. And the same holds good for therapeutics.
The ancients knew these truths and knew that on the faithful obeying

of the ensuing prescriptions, the success of the attendance depended for
a great part.

For operations choose the time when the Moon is waxing in light
and in velocity and when it is in a fixed sign, unless this sign
represents the part of the body that has to be operated upon. The Moon
should, if possible, receive good aspects from 2j. and $.

This sign should be strong i.e. contain a benefic or receive good
aspects. 2J. and $ in M. C. or the ruler of the Ascendant there, is fairly
favourable, provided it is not afflicted by rf.

Ptolomy knew the relation existing between the planets and certain
diseases and the relation between definite planets and definite vegetable
and mineral remedies.

He arranged both the different plants and the minerals under the
conformable planets and Paracelsus especially studied the plants in their
natural connection to the planets. He taught that diseases may be cured
by sympathy or by antipathy i.e. that on one hand diseases that come
under a special planet may be cured by means that come under the
same !

planet ) and on the other hand by means that may be arranged
under the opposite planet.

!) According to Paracelsus the plant has, just like man and animal, in it his

organs. In the herbs are a heart, liver, spleen etc. just as in man. This does not
mean, he says, that the heart can be found in the plant as it can by man, but that
it is present as a power and a virtue, like to the heart.

In the firmament are seven organs, just as in man, but not as palpable
organs but as power and virtue, without body, as with man nothing is found to be
bodiless. In the spirit the remedy lies, but not in the body.

In the first place Paracelsus seeks the conformable shape in the plants, con-
formable to man and Cosmos, and he usually administered the plant which in shape
conformed to the sick organ or part of the body, because according to his theorem
both the sick organ and the agreeing plant took their shape from the same principle



208

Thus the diseases that come under $ may be cured by remedies
coming under cf, diseases under 2J. by remedies under ft diseases
under ft should be treated by remedies falling under the Q etc.

For a closer acquaintance with the long lists of plants arranged
according to the influence of the planets I refer to Culpepper's Occult
Botany.

He says, "first see which planet caused the disease, next which
part of the body is suffering from the disease, and whether the disease
is in the tender parts of the body, in the blood or in the system of

bones, next by which planet the ill part of the body is ruled
You may arrest the disease by herbs opposed to the planet that causes
it; e.g. diseases of Sun or Moon by herbs under ft and the reverse,
diseases of Mars by herbs that come under $ and the reverse. By sym-
pathy as well may be cured, viz. every planet cures its own diseases

e.g. herbs under Q and I) cure the eyes, those under 2|. the liver, those
under cf the gall and those under $ the diseases caused by $."

Curing a patient by submitting him to coloured light may also be
reduced to planetary influence viz. just like the 7 notes of the octave
form the 7 planetary keynotes of the Harmony of the Spheres. The
7 colours of the spectrum are the result of the refraction the white light
undergoes by the 7 planets (here the materially visible planets are not
meant, see p. 227).

The word planet is used here in the astrological sense, so O and D
are included. Uranus and Neptune are not counted, belonging as they
do to the next octave, under which ultra-violet should be counted. The
ultra-red belongs to a preceding octave, so an octave of still slower
vibrations than red has. The colour of cf is red, $ blue, yellow, ft green,
2J. purple, O orange and D violet.

Every doctor knows the great influence of the colours on certain
diseases and on the state of the mind in general. If you put a mad man
who suffers from fits of rage (cf) in a red-coloured room (cf) you need
not wait long for a fit, but if you put him in a blue-coloured room
with blue ($) coloured glass before the window panes, you will
calm him. Let the melancholy man (ft) abide in red (cf) light and you
will make him brighter. So this is a cure "by antipathy". An example
of cure "by sympathy" is e.g. the curing of the small-pox under red

light. Many diseases of an acute inflammatory nature such as e.g.

small-pox i) come under the planet cf and by applying red light here,
one not only accelerates the process of recovery, but prevents scars

in the Cosmos; it therefore might be expected that the (healthy) principle in the
plant would come to the aid of the sick principle of the part of the body.

By learning to read the stars of the firmament, he says, the curer learns to
cure; not by reading confusedly but connectedly, just as each word in itself has a
meaning, but a sentence is formed only by a series of connected words.

!) Small-pox is a <$ ^ disease.



209

1

being formed after the process of recovery. So here d is the curer of
the d* illness.

It is scarcely the place to give here lists of diseases and remedies
that come under definite planets. I refer to Heinrich Daath's and Raphael's
Medical Astrology and to the above-mentioned work of Culpepper. I will

only say in short something for elucidation.
We divided the houses of the horoscope into angular (1, 4, 7, 10)

succedent (2, 5, 8, 11) and cadent (3, 6, 9, 12) houses and of these me
latter especially have to do with illness. We saw that the mutable
signs (n, mp, ^, 3C) are conformable to the cadent houses and so we
see that Virgo, the sixth sign, rules the sixth house i.e. one of the
cadent houses that in the first place should be considered when we have
to decide in case of illness, and that therefore bears the name of the
"house of disease" (p. 90, 91).

So the sign Virgo rules the house of disease and $ is the ruler of
this sign ; hence we conclude that most diseases take their origin in
the digestion (np) and are usually of a nervous () nature. But further
follows the great truth which presses forward more and more of late,
that in the Mind (-the Mind) lurks the power of controlling diseases,
and seeing that the houses represent the body, we may as well say the
Mind is the master of the body. No doubt the reverse is also true in a
sense; for if the Mind finds no normal instrument by which to express
itself, that expression can only be defective.

When O r D are in a cadent house, but especially in 6 (also, in a
less degree, in 12) the vitality is weaker especially when in these
houses they are afflicted by Saturn. Peculiar as it may seem, this action
extends not only to the sign in which O or 3 are placed in the 6th
but also to the signs which are in 8 or D to it; so if the 6th house
e.g. is ruled by a fixed sign, the action expresses itself to some degree
in all four fixed signs, so also in the parts of the body conformable to
them. If e.g. with man the O. or with woman the D is in 6th, afflicted

in the sign Taurus (it holds good for the other planets too, of course,
but in a less degree) we might expect not only that the part of the

body, ruled by V (throat) will be subjected to disease, but also the

genitals (HI), the heart (QJ and the blood plus the mental qualities (s:)

may show a tendency to disease.
This applies as universal rule, and also that the position of I? in 6

and afflicted, is a very bad token for the vitality; it often is the indi-

cation of chronic diseases coupled to atrophy, paralysis, gangrene etc.

Under this fall e.g. all disease of the system of bones (ft) as osteoporosis,
osteomalacy, abnormal formation of bones; also chronic skin-diseases,
chronic rheumatism, tuberculosis, all kinds of paralysis, etc. ty in
6 will indicate great sensitiveness of the nervous system and diseases
of it. The position of ^E or ^ in 6 often denotes strange, little-known
affections also.

14



210

Although not so potent as ft, d and #, the afflictions of the other

planets may also manifest in the above-mentioned way e.g. the O in 6
(in tf or V) strongly afflicted by 2J. would indicate a propensity for

apoplexy etc. For further particulars refer to chapter: Health and
Disease p. 139.

In this direction medical men might pay great services to astrology
and last though not least to their patients; the field lies fallow
for a great part and the soil is rich.

Especially where it concerns internal affections that are hard to

diagnose, astrology may be of incalculable use - and poor, tortured

humanity would have to play less the miserable part of the rabbit that
is experimented upon!

One will be inclined to say that this is in reality a returning to old
and long-left methods of cure and this truth will not be denied, but one
should not forget that it is a repetition with better resources i.e. with
an enormous theoretical knowledge and a well-schooled intellect.

Everything repeats itself, in the scientific department as well as in

nature. Repetition is the foundation of all progress, of every evolution;
every repetition is coupled to progress.

The science of medicine has experienced the strong influence of
materialism and under that influence it was sure to harden and perish,
just like everything must perish under that crystalizing influence;
however much good materialism brings, for the rest, during the short
time it waves its sceptre, if it influences too long, it kills. It is a
necessary link in the chain of evolution, no more.

However primitive the ancient medicine of the time of Ptolomy and
long before, may seem in the eyes of the present doctor, it never-
theless did wonders, for the simple reason that it had a firm, sound,
constant basis, the Cosmos, those people knew that the micro-
cosmos reflects the macrocosmos. On this basis one may safely build
on and the pioneers who will erect this new building on the old foun-

dations, we must no doubt seek under the sign Aquarius. (1$ the Reformer).

In still another way astrology may bring much light to the medical
man. It is namely known that with various acute diseases a crisis

comes after a certain number of days, and repeats itself after a certain
number of other days in many cases. If we study this in connection
with the positions of the Moon and with the position of the planet under
whose influence the disease arose, we shall find that these moments
of crisis appear during the time the Moon is in D or 8 to the place it

occupied at the moment the disease began, or also at the moment the

patient was laid up and called in the doctor's aid. The being laid up
we may viz. regard already as a critical exacerbation in the process of

illness and this will usually arise at the moment when the Moon comes
in L to the position it occupied at the commencement of the disease.



211

Likewise the Q position in connection with this place, will cause a
slight exacerbation.

The crisis denotes a turning in the process of disease : improvement
or getting worse and as the Moon revolves in about 28 days, we
may expect a crisis the 8th (n) day and the 14th (8). On the 21st

day the Moon comes again in D to its original position, but the process
of recovery with acute diseases has usually been entered upon by that
time and this period will be less noticed. Moreover the 5th and the
llth day should be considered, when the Moon comes in Z and Q to
its original position.

One must not set to work mechanically here, but should have one's

judgment work and regard the progressive- and radix aspects in the

patient's horoscope in relation to those in the Cosmos during his illness.

After having made some astrological knowledge his own, the medical
man will realise the great use of this method.

In judging the critical days one should especially take into conside-
ration the normal duration of the illness. If this is very short, e.g. 6 or 7

days, one may expect the crisis when the J) is at a distance of 45 (Z)
from its original place. If it is longer e.g. from 8 to 15 days, the place
of 90 (D) has especially to be taken into account, and if the normal
duration is longer than a fortnight, one may expect the principal crisis

on 180 (8) and 270 (Q) from the original place of the Moon, so on the
14th and 21st day after the .beginning of the illness.

Why do e.g. infectious diseases appear good-natured one year and
malicious in another year; why e.g. should small-pox or scarlatina
be in some year so virulent and in other years so much less dangerous
that hardly any notice is taken of them ? This cannot always be recon-
ciled with influences of climate e.g. that in one year the temperature
and the moisture of the atmosphere should be working more favourably
or more unfavourably on the development of the virus.

If you care to find the solution to this riddle, you will find it in

the constellations of the planets, there only.
Put all prejudice aside, if possible, and seek honestly in that direction

and unless your research is too superficial, I am absolutely certain that

you are won for Astrology.

Diseases coming under the Planets in the Different Signs.

'Hail him who follows not the erring
ways, but the order of the light of
nature he is the remedy and the
healer."

PARACELSUS.

In judging the native's more or less receptibility to various diseases
one should, as has been mentioned, trace the 6th house especially;



212

the sign on its cusp or the planet possibly placed in this house, usually
indicates the weak point. Further should the ascendant and the afflictions

that Sun and Moon receive also be taken into account. From this we
learn whether there is a propensity for illness and in what direction
we have to look for it. Next, one should consider the planets in their

signs, and one may arrive at more detailed conclusions. The signs in

which the planets are posited therefore, indicate the receptibility to
certain affections and we may accept as a general rule that inharmonious
aspects increase this receptibility.

That the disease of a part of the body not only expresses itself by
the Zodiacal sign which represents this part of the body, but also by
the signs which form an 8 or a D aspect to it, becomes clear to us
when we classify the diseases into :

A. Diseases of the physical body.
B. Diseases of the astral body (the soul).
C. Diseases of the mental body (the mind).
These three groups of diseases agree respectively to 1 the fixed

signs (tf, Q,, ni, y~), 2 the mutable signs (n, np, & ft) and 3 the cardinal

signs (V, 25, =, ($) and as we know that the four signs of each group
form an 8 or a D aspect to each other, we understand that a disease that

e.g. expresses itself in DC, a mutable sign, so a suffering of the soul
will show a tendency to express itself also in the corresponding signs,
in inharmonious aspect to it, the signs n, W and ,? which also represent
the soul.

The same holds good for all cases. x
)

If there is a symptom, we may define beforehand where most pro-
bably the further symptoms will show themselves.

That a disease really shows this tendency of expressing itself by an
8 and G symptom-complex, we will elucidate with a few examples.

!) To those who cannot believe in the great influence of the signs of the Zodiac
and the planets on the health of body and spirit we advise, by way of transition, to
make for a short time a study of the characters and temperaments of their acquaint-
ances in connection with their horoscopes. They will find that their temperament
is accurately expressed by the Zodiacal signs that play the strongest part in their

horoscopes, so especially by those signs that are on Asc. or M. C. and those that
contain many planets (especially Q or

^)). They will see that a special temperament
belongs to a special sign and according to the following scale.

A. Choleric 2 c )
) temperament fiery signs y , Q^, ^.

B. Sanguine airy n, =Q=, ZZ.
C. Melancholic watery 05, m, ft.
D. Phlegmatic earthy ^, ttj?, %.
We need hardly mention that the pure type is rarely found, but usually transitions

in which one of the four characteristics is most conspicuous.
2
) One might also think of gall by choleric, and of blood by sanguine and

conceived in that way, one could arrange choleric among the watery signs and
sanguine among the fiery signs. The general conception however is the one men-
tioned above.



213

Diphtheritis, a suffering of the throat, so coming under X, is attended
with weakness of the heart ($,) and a rapidly developing anaemia (s:).

The symptons with Uraemia (ni) are chiefly dryness of the mucous
membrane of the nose, the mouth and the larynx Ctf), hoarse voice (X),
attacks of fever, dizziness (), convulsions, spasms (sz),

Neuralgia, Weakness of the nerves, a suffering of the head (V) expressed
as insomnia *) (V), want of memory (V and 25), head-aches, gastric dis-
turbances (25) such as e.g. dyspepsia (26). With the cerebral form the

sign V plays a greater part, with the gastric the sign 25.

The sexual neurosis comes under the cerebellum rather, the sex-
function is affected (rn.) accompanied by pain in the back (Q.) and
weakness of the limbs (s:).

With Nephritis Chronica 2
) (=0.) where the proper membrane of the

kidney (=0=) suffers and the kidney is soft and large, gastro interitis,

aneamia, disease of the eyes, such as retinitis 3
) (V), oedemia 4

) (25 %).

The skin (Z) and the kidneys (=0=) influence each other mutually,
when the skin secretes more sweat, the kidneys have an easier task.

With Nephritis Chronica intersitialis (ni) where the interstitial mem-
brane chiefly is suffering, which by contraction causes the withered
kidney small and hard (fixed sign) appear cachexia 5

), asthma,
anaemia 6

(s:), hypertrophy ) of the heart (Q,), sclerosis 7
) of the arteries,

hard throbbing pulse (~ and Q.).

Syphilis (ni) expresses by festering of nose, throat and larynx (tf).

Regarding this disease so universally spread at present, which at the
beginning of the 16th century began to scourge Europe in a terrible way,
We will remind the reader of the astrologer Paulus Almanus, also called
Peter of Middleburg, who as early as the year 1487 had predicted the arrival
of this disease in his Prognosticum siginti annorum, as the effect of
a conjunction of % and 1? in Scorpio. Peter of Middleburg in his augury
speaks about a disease that will scourge the people till in their posterity.
Though this epidemic is by "science" ascribed to wars, inundations and
other disasters that in those times were the order of the day, it is

evident to the astrologer that these disasters also, sprang forth from
the same cause as the syphilis-epidemic viz. the conjunction of 2|. and ft

in Scorpio. See further under planetary conjunctions (p. 164).

1
) Sleeplessness.

2
) Chronic inflammation of the kidneys.

*) Inflammation of the retina.
4
) Skin-dropsy.

5
) An unhealthy condition of nutrition.

6
) Excessive development.

7
) Induration.



214

Sexual maturity (ni) appears together with "the beard in the throat" (V).

Of Diabetes (=0=) the ethiology is fairly obscure, but the cause is

sought in deep emotions, brain-suffering (V). Here a great thirst occurs
and abnormal appetite, the stomach (55) functions in an enormous way,
further disease of the skin (%) occurs. When the Medulla oblongata also
suffers (ni), the cause is often found to be malaria (s:) or syphilis (ni).
If death does not ensue through some complication, it ensues through
coma. 1

) (V).

We cannot always regard the disease as originating in one sign,
for sometimes the neighbouring sign is also concerned in the suffering
and diabetes e.g., originally coming under the diseases of the mind (V a
cardinal sign), may also include a suffering of the physical body (X a
fixed sign). We mean here originally so primary; secondarily the body
will suffer all the same, when the mind or the soul are suffering. Here
the symptom-complex becomes more involved, but this will not make
the experienced medical man shrink back, on the contrary.

Thus the two types of Scrophula patients may be distinguished, the
one with swollen upper lip, and pale swollen face (V), with indolent,

phlegmatic mind, with eczema (%) and suffering of the joints and bones
(rtT), and scrofulous festering tumours (25). The other type (,?) has a fair,

transparent, red complexion, lively spirit and eyes, bronchial catarrh (n)
and swollen belly (try).

With Nephritis (==) accompanied by retention of the urine, convul-
sions often occur as symptom (V) and general paroxysm of muscle
contraction, sometimes loss of consciousness

With heart's disease (QJ, dropsy usually begins at the ankles (~),
with nephritis (=*=) at the face (V), with liver complaint at the

belly (np) etc. (1 fixed, 2 cardinal, 3 mutable signs).

Every doctor might increase the number of examples infinitely.
We might go further with this division and bring under group A

the diseases:
1. of the visible physical body and
2. of the invisible phys. body or etheric double also called ether-

body or life-body.
To digress on this would lead us too far and beyond the scope of

this work.

In general the diseases of T? are chronic, prolonged, scleros-

ing, cold.
Uranus has about the same influence, except that the affections are

more of a nervous nature and often incurable. This is also the case
with Neptune. It often causes affections difficult to diagnose.

i) A state of deep torpor.



215

ft in V. Catarrhal affections in the head, catching colds, caries
of the teeth, sometimes deafness, brain-anaemia, rheumatic headaches.

ft in X- Chronic affections of the throat, laryngeal phthisis, loss of
J

voice, diphtheria, gangrenous angina. )

ft in n. Weakened vitality and bad digestion, chronic bronchial
catarrh, asthma, tuberculosis of the lungs, trembling of arms and hands.

ft in 25. Weak stomach and hence digestion-disturbances. Anaemia,
scrophula, receptivity to malaria in the tropics, tuberculosis, nausea, 2

)

breast-cancer, chlorosis. 3
)

ft in $ . Weak action of the heart, throbbings of the heart, weak back,
deformed back-bone.

ft in ttp. Constipation, suffering of the intestines, calculous stones in

kidneys and bladder, indolent liver, consumption of the belly.
ft in =k Impure blood, sometimes 4

strangury, ) kidney-colic, Bright's
disease, retention of the urine.

ft in nv. Suffering of the nervous system, genitals, haemorrhoids, gravel,
caries of the nasal cartilage (tf 8 "I).

ft in ,?. Disease of the hips, ischias, rheumatism of the thigh muscles,
disease of the hip joint.

ft in ~%. Weak knees, head-aches, fevers, affections of the skin,
rheumatism of the joints.

ft in :s. Rheumatism, anaemia, weak ankles, contraction of the Achilles

tendon, sclerose of the spinal marrow, artery-sclerose.
ft in X. Very susceptible to catching cold, cold feet.

When a sign occupies a prominent place in the horoscope e.g. in
the ascendant, or (especially in judging a disease) on the cusp of the
sixth house, this sign indicates to what diseases the native is most
receptive.

Aries gives a propensity to suffering of the brain, headaches, insomnia,
neuralgia, eye-affections, various kinds of eczema at the head, diz-
ziness etc.

Taurus. Affections of the throat such as angina, laryngitis, pharyn-
gitis, goitres, croup and diphtheria, apoplexy, affections of the tonsils,
affections of the voice, as hoarseness etc.

Gemini. Propensity to bronchial catarrh, asthma, pneumonia, tuber-
culosis of the lungs, nervous disorders, affections of arms and hands.

Cancer causes digestion-disturbances, stomach complaint, flatulency,
dropsy, cancer, chlorosis etc.

Leo. Affections of the heart such as palpitatio cordis 5
), hypertrophy

1
) Dangerous quinsy.

2
) A propensity to vomit.

3
) Green-sickness.

4
) Pain in passing the urine.

5
) Abnormal beatings of the heart.



216

of the heart, affections of the blood and hence fevers, fainting fits,

throat affections (X n 1).

Virgo. Suffering of the intestines, such as dysentery, colic, constip-
ation, diarrhoea, cholera, peritonitis, and all diseases rising from chronic

suffering of the entrails, such as anaemia, etc.

Libra. Kidney complaint in its various forms, such as Bright's disease,
diabetes, kidney congestion, nephritis, obstruction of the urine, rheumatic
affection of the loin-muscles (lumbago) etc.

Scorpio. The various forms of bladder and genital suffering, suffering
of the pelvis of the kidney, affection of uterus and vagina, retention of

urine, syphilis and throat affections (ni 8 V) occurring simultaneously.
Sagittarius. Suffering of the hips and thehipjoint, nervous suffering.

(,? D W D 3C D n).
]

Capricorn. Affections of the skin, various kinds of eczema, prurigo, )
2 3

pruritis, ) scabies, urticaria, ) also rheumatism of the joints, fits of

melancholy.
Aquarius. Diseases of the blood, weakness of the heart, nervous and

mental affections, poor circulation, anaemia, poisoning of the blood, weak
and painful ankles.

Pisces. Diseases accompanied by watery tumours, dropsy, scrofula

(principally softening) the feet are the weak point, corns, painful
callosity etc. Alcoholism also often occurs under this sign.

Mars gives in general diseases of an inflammatory and a feverish
nature with acute exacerbations and remissions.

The Sun causes about the same diseases as Mars, but often less
vehement and less sudden.

1

d in V. Sleeplessness, restlessness, head-aches through brain con-

gestion, wounds at the head.
1

d in X. Affections of the throat, suffering of the kidneys, swollen
4

tonsils, diphtheria, parotitis, ) rheumatism in the muscles of the neck.
cf in u. Wounds and fractures of the arm, bronchitis, pneumonia,

suffering of the nervous system, neuralgic pains.
1

d in 25. Stomach suffering, indigestion, bleeding of the stomach,
dyspesia, vomitting of bile, stomach cough.

1

d in Q^. Heart-throbbing, suffering of the kidneys, aneurism, 5
) angina, )

rheumatism cf the muscles of the back, herpes zoster. 7
)

1

d in tip. With children often worms, intestine-affection, diarrhoea,
gastro-interitis, cholera, peritonitis.

!) A papular skin disease.
2
) An intolerable itching,

s) Nettle-rash.
4
) Inflammation of the glands situated on each side of the cheek, mumps.

5
) A dilatation in an artery.

6
) Quinsy.

7 A skin affection consisting of vesicles grouped on an inflamed
) surface.



217

cf in =o=. Suffering of the kidneys, lumbago.
cf in ni. Sexual and bladder diseases, irregular menstruation, head-

aches, haemorrhoids, nose and throat suffering, bladder suffering, diabetes,
hypertrophy of the prostate-gland.

cf in ,?. Pains in the hips, thighs, ischias.

cf in %. Affections of the knees, rheumatic fevers, nettle-rash, psoriasis,
scabies.

cf in ~. Fevers, pains in the lower leg, heart-throbbing (s: 8 1),

blood-poisoning, erysipelas of the lower leg.
cf in DC. Suffering of the feet, intestines, breathing organs; diseases

caused by drinking too much; corns, painful callosities.

3) in V. Headaches, catarrhal affections, migraine, sleeplessness*
weak sight.

3) in tf. Throat suffering, especially watery tumours, accompanied by
inflammation.

3) in n. Suffering of the breathing organs, especially catarrhal.

3) in <?o. Suffering of the stomach, epilepsy, anaemia, flatulency, cancer.

3) in Q,. Heart throbbing, pains in the back, fainting fits.

3) in tip. Suffering of the intestines, depression, bilious complaint,
nervousness.

3) in =L. Stomach and liver complaint, weak back.

3) in ni. Kidney-suffering and affections of the uro-genital apparatus
(hydrocele), heart trobbing, herniae.

3) in 5?. Weakness of the limbs, intestinesuffering, gout, nervous
disorders.

3) in J5T. Weak back and kidneys, moist skin-diseases, synovitis of
the knee.

D in ~. Pains in the limbs, nervousness, swollen veins, varicose veins,

blood-poisoning.
3) in DC. Anaemia, cold, moist feet, weak lungs, alcoholism.

Of the other planets, 2{., ? and & $ causes diseases of a nervous
nature e.g. in V nervous disturbances through overstrain, neuralgia; in

V throat troubles, especially expressing as hoarseness in # and ~
; stinging

pains through the limbs etc.

If 2|. and $ by strong affliction give symptoms of illness, which will
in general be expressed by overnutrition, abnormal expansion, fattening,
strong development of cellular tissue, abnormal secretion etc.

One had better not be content with one indication of some illness,
but pass one's judgment only when there is more than one indication
for it. A planet placed in the sixth house can always ascertain us regard-
ing the nature of the disease and also the planets that are eventually
placed in the sixth sign (tip).



218

If O or ]) is afflicted in 6, especially by ft, one may be sure of little

vitality, of weak health therefore. If moreover the twelfth house is

afflicted, this makes the condition worse, so does an affliction of the
ascendant.

Embryology and Heredity with respect to Astrology.

"Everything is contained in the germ.
Every growth is a development."

RUCKERT.

The moment of impregnation, which we called Epoch, is of extrem-
ely great importance, because at this moment the father's qualities
imprinted in the sperm, are going to combine themselves with those of
the mother, contained in the feminine ovum. In every cell of the body
the inherent qualities of the individual are imprinted, we have tried
to show this when we dealt with the birth-horoscope. They are present
in both germ-cells, viz. in the masculine sperm that forms the positive ( | )

and in the feminine ovum, that form the negative ( ) centre in this

important event. Together they must build a cosmos the microcosmos.
The symbol of Cosmos and man is, as we already showed: i.e.

the egg (O) in which the masculine ( | ) and the feminine principle ( )

are present. It also represents the egg-cell after the second dividing
of the cell.

The inheriting of the qualities of father and mother is not the only
reason why the moment of conception is of such importance to the

astrologer, there is another more important reason. The Ego rein-
carnates viz. always in a body that by inherited qualities of the parents
interprets as accurately as possible the qualities that the Ego has gained
himself in former lives, and we might safely set more store by these
obtained qualities of the Ego, than by those inherited from the parents.
They form a harmonic combination.

The body is inherited from the parents and also the characteristics
that are connected with a special build of the body, as for instance, the
manner of speaking, the gait, the gesticulations; further the predis-
position to certain diseases etc.

Moreover various qualities of the soul are inherited, such as passion,
temper, thoughtfulness, etc.

By comparing the birth-horoscope of the child with that of the

parents, we see pictured before us what qualities it has inherited from
its parents and what qualities must be regarded as the special property of

the Ego. The former will of course have been developed for the greater part



219

by the incarnating Ego in preceding lives, for it tries to incarnate in a

body suitable to its qualities. The Ego chooses a definite place for its

birth at the moment when the position of the Zodiacal Signs and the

aspects of the Planets are in concordance with its characteristics and
its Karma.

So by comparing the horoscopes of parents and child with regard
to heredity, even the staunchest unbeliever in astrological influences
must arrive at the conclusion that man is typified by the position of

the celestial bodies under which he is born. A striking likeness of the

horoscopes accompanies always a strong likeness of stature and character
of ancestors, or parents, and descendants. Where the likeness is not to
be found between the horoscopes of parents and child, it is sure to be
found between those of one of the ancestors and the child and here again
character and physique run parallel with the respective horoscopes. *)

If we trace the embryo in its development, commencing with the

egg, we see that it takes its origin, with animal as well as with man,
in one single cell, which contains all the qualities comprised in the
individual whence it took its origin. A second cell, also comprising the

qualities of another individual, comes in contact with the former and the

impulse is given to the coming into being of a new vehicle by which
the third individuality will be able to express itself (Iris + Osiris = Horus).

Every body, however high or low evolved, took its origin from the
fecundated egg-cell which in fact may be called immortal, it divides
itself and divides again and though the original cell perishes, disappears,

each cell arisen from it, bears the stamp of the original and this charac-
teristic is comprised in the composition of our Cosmos as it was at the
moment the fecundation took place.

This cell contains not only the characteristics of the individual

imprinted in it, but also all organs and parts of organs that develop
from it, and it comprises all qualities necessary to the sustaining of life

as well as to the functions needed, to have its kind live on!
The one cell represents the whole Individual.

The multiplication need not always happen by division, but may take

place by formation of buds and in other ways. Two cells may also
combine to one and thus procure existence for a third, a separate one.
A very involved process takes place here, in which the impulse to

division arises from the core of the cell (nucleus) and a still smaller

body (centrosome), present in the cell, after which follows the division
of the protoplasm and according to the nature of the division
cells with different qualities come into being and these bear never-
theless the original stamp.

In this is included the whole secret of the continuity of a race, viz. all

a
) Cf. "Cosmos and Microcosmos" by C. Aq. Libra, Editor P.Dz. Veen, Amersfoort

(The Netherlands).



220

germ-cells whether masculine or feminine arose as part of the body of
an individual belonging to a certain race, and the special stamp every
race has, is not only imprinted on the individual as a whole, but also
on every cell, and where fecundation of a negative germ-cell takes place
by a positive germ-cell of the same race-nature, the same race must
necessarily come into being.

Every germ-cell has therefore two chief characteristics at least, viz.

first, the stamp given to it by the race or nationality and secondly the
stamp which is the individual's own, and that is caused by inheritance
from parent to child.

The same germ-cell goes, as it were, through the entire succession
of ancestors, and the type of germ-cell alters only to the degree the
individual evolves in some direction. This regards the individual's ans-
wering to the progression of his horoscope.

The embryon i.e. the human or animal body in its earliest stage,
springs forth from the coming together of the two mentioned egg-cells
(sperm and ovum).

It is beyond our scope to describe the development of the embryo.
Refer to the handbooks on embryology for this matter. We shall only
mention in short the chief processes that take place and next show
that the growth may be traced according to the signs of the Zodiac
and that the entire process of development of the embryo is a repetition
of the various stages which man has gone through, during the periods
of evolution of the Earth.

At the beginning we said already that the /rza/z-embryo went through
mineral, vegetable and animal evolution and that the present minerals,
plants and animals are forms left behind, originating from the various
periods or rounds l

) of evolution of the Earth, as they are called in
occult science.

With every new period (round) the preceding stages are repeated
in short, all evolution is founded on repetition and now we see
this repetition distinct before us in the growth of the embryo.

With the mammals the growth of the embryo, (excepting little differ-

ences occurring sometimes at the very beginning,) agrees quite with
that of man, - - so far one has had the opportunity to trace its differ-

ent stages, which was naturally attended by far more difficulties than
with the animal.

In the ovary the fecundation takes place and here the division be-
gins. The contents of the egg-cell becomes after fecundation the so-called

germ bubble which is covered by one layer of cellular tissue and is

thicker in one spot, the germgarden, which consists of more layers of
cells. From that arise and grow round the germ-bubble the three mem-

i) Cf. Works on Occultism by Blavatsky, A. Besant, Dr. Steiner, Leadbeater,
Max Heindel etc.



221

branes, the outer, the middle one, and the inner germ-skin or the
ecto-, the meso- and the info-derm.

This is the first plan of the embryo, in which soon the primitive
stripe with the back-groove (by bending inward) grows, i.e. the first

plan for brain and spinal marrow. It begins to grow at the head-part
of the embryo ('Y-brain), grows further along the back as plan for the

prolonged marrow (V). At the head-part the gill-openings and gill-flaps
develop, the gill-opening forms the primitive plan of the breathing organs
(n). At the same time begins at the head-part the plan of the heart (Q),
in the shape of 2 free hollow tubes which approach each other more
and more, curl to an S-shape and grow together.

The back develops first, after which comes the development of
the belly (tip).

The groove of the back has in the meantime formed the first plan
of the vertebrae and of the chest; and the plan of the intestinal canal
arises by the bending inward of the intoderm which lies on the yolk,
viz. the socalled mid-entrail (tip)

Mouth, stomach and gullet are still wanting; they are formed later
out of the gill-flaps, out of which also the lower jaw, the auditory
duct, haering-bones, tongue-bone etc. develop.

While te mid-entrail (tip) was being formed and already before,
there formed by raising of the outer form of the germ-bubble two mem-
branes, an inward or Amnion, and an outward or Chorion. The latter

sends flakes in the placenta and thus the condition has been procured
for a new way of nutrition (ttp) seeing the yolk is at the same time
almost consumed. A third membrane is also formed, the Allantois which
grows rapidly and lies against the Chorion, growing also in the grooves
of the placenta. This is the case with mammals.

The stem of the Allantois is the navel-string which is already present
in the third week.

The spinal cord has meanwhile further developed and is formed
into the Chorda dorsalis, giving rise to the lumbar vertebrae (=0=).

In the 4th week the plan of the urine- and the sex-apparatus (ni)
is formed.

The testicles and ovaries are formed in the 8th week and lie close
to the back at first. Not until the 7th month the testicles lower. At
the beginning the sex organs are the same with the male and the female
embryo, but in the 3rd month the differentiating (elimination or develop-
ment) takes place.

After the first plan for the uro-genital-organs, the limbs begin to be
formed as stumps (>?). They grow longer, the knee (%) and the
lower leg (s:) are formed and at length also the plan for hands and feet
is originated and the separation into fingers and toes (DC).

This succession of the different zod. influences is ever repeated, giving
again and again new impulse for further development, though the devel-



222

opment of the parts of the body proceeds in between, of course. That
is why it becomes more difficult to trace the succession of the signs
at the further rounds of evolution.
We might also trace the separate influence of the planets month

by month taking the planets in the order they occur in the Cosmos.
We see the growth happen in proportion to, and in harmony with, the

qualities of the resp. planets.
The 1st month comes under Saturn. Laying of the material foundation.
First plan of the different parts.
The 2nd month comes under Jupiter. Development of the membranes

and strong expansion of them. Strong growth of the head and the
brain beginning of development of the limbs.

The 3rd month comes under Mars. Differentiation of sex. Develop-
ment of the genitals, formation of fingers and toes.

The 4th month comes under the Sun. The embryo takes the human
shape, the face gets human features. The embryo is now called foetus.

So an individualisation (O) as it were.
The 5th month comes under Venus. Further development of the

genitals. Growth of the hair and the nails.

The 6th month comes under Mercury. Strong development of the
brain. First movements of the foetus. It may be born alive and can
breathe but not keep alive.

The 7th month comes under the Moon. At the end of this month
the early birth may take place and the child may keep alive.

The 8th month comes under Saturn. The first cycle is completed.
Abortive birth may take place in this period. Beginning of the second cycle.

The 9th month comes under Jupiter. Normal birth takes place.

If we trace the development of the eye e.g., we see that the inward
eye viz. the visual nerve begins first to form from the brain. Not until

this excrescence reaches the ectoderm, the outward eye begins to be
formed by bending inward. The same is the case with the organ of

hearing, viz. here also the inward part of the organ is first formed. We
see here the same progress as with the development of man, that as
we have seen, went from the mental plane through the astral, to gain
the physical plane in the end. The period of the development of the
inward senses agrees to the time he had his conciousness on the astral

plane, when he, as occultism teaches us, had the inner sight and inner

hearing, i.e. was clairvoyant and clairaudiant making use of his astral
senses. Physical senses he had not yet, these developed not until his
descent into matter and this period agrees therefore to the formation of
the outward senses after the excrescence had touched the ectoderm.

We might also, if we e.g. compare the development of the heart
with the conditions the man-embryo had to go through from the earliest

periods of animal consciousness up to human consciousness, find back



223

these forms of evolution in the stages of the evolution of the heart.

The most primitive species of animal we know is that of the Protozoa,
animals consisting of a single cell, and where there is no question of
heart and circulation.

This agrees to the period of evolution of the embryo before the plan
of the double-tubed heart was formed.

In the human development it represents the first stage of animal
consciousness, during the third period (round) of the earth.

With the Articulate animals, e.g. with the Polychetae, a tube-shaped
heart is found (with many species of them) that shows already peris-
taltic contraction.

This agrees to the time in evolution of the embryo, where the
heart is being formed.

In the human development it represents the second period of the

stage of animal consciousness of the third period (round) of the earth.

With the Crustaceans there is a dorsal bloodvessel or heart but
often no veins ; the Arachno'ideae have already veins. They are therefore

forms of transition.

With the Fishes the heart is developed and divided into a ventricle
and an auricle; no separation therefore of veinous and arterous
blood, the blood is mixed and is provided with oxygen and purged
of carbonic acid in the gills.

This agrees therefore to the time when, the man-embryo formed the

gill-flaps, during which time it had a pure gill-breathing, just like
the fish. The heart was then also divided into two halves and curved
itself S-shaped (15th 18th day), after which the separation of the
auricles begins. As transition we may mention here the mudfish (Dipnoi)
which has double breathing, by gills and by lungs.

In the human development it represents, the third stage of animal
consciousness of the third period of the earth.

With the Amphibians there are already one ventricle and two auricles,
so the mingling of arterous and veinous blood is less strong here, by
which the brain is better nourished and consequently the consciousness
increases. We see this separation of the ventricles occur in the same
order with the embryo.

In the human development it represents the fourth stage of animal
consciousness of the third period of the earth.

With the Reptiles we see already an incomplete septum between
the ventricles, such as we also observe in the development of the

embryo-heart. The gill-flaps are modified into organs (already begun
with the preceding group) and the breathing with both has given place
to lung-respiration; the lungs develop with the embryo. With one



224

species of lizard, the crocodile, a complete division of the heart into 2
ventricles and 2 auricles has already taken place. This must be regarded
as a transition to the next group.

This group and embryonal period, agree to the fifth stage of animal
consciousness of the third period of the earth.

The Birds and the Mammals represent the 6th and 7th stage of
animal consciousness of man. The heart is divided into 2 ventricles and
2 auricles, by which pure arterial blood is supplied, and consequently
the instrument of consciousness can develop better. During the intra-

uterine life no partition is yet found between the two auricles (the
Foramen Ovale) a remnant from former heights of development.

Though the preceding does not come directly under Astrology, it will
be useful, in our opinions to show the eternal periodicity, the everlasting
repetition in the Cosmos and in its image, the microcosmos. x

) We feel

fully that a degree of knowledge regarding the occult history of evo-
lution is necessary in order to be impressed by the truth of the comparisons.

It is also interesting to trace the relation existing between the diffe-

rent tissues and the organs arising from the three germ-blades, but this

would lead us too far.

The conformity and the going parallel of the development of the

embryo and that of man in the different stages of earth evolution, may
be drawn much further and detailed by e.g. comparing nutrition and
development of sex, but that is superfluous here.

!) The famous Tabula, Smaragdina Hermetis, which forms the traditional basis
of Alchemy, tells us in reality nothing but the unity of macrocosmos and microcos-
mos. "Quod est inferius est sicut id quod est superius," the proporaons and
ingredients of one are the proportions and ingredients of the other. The origin of
all life is the Sun, the origin of all form is the Moon, "Pater ejus est sol, Mater
ejus est luna . . . Nutrix ejus terra est." By feeling that to be the truth, one should
inevitably come to the conclusion that Astrology must be true. Indeed, everything
originates from a common^source. "Omnia ex uno."



225

l
) Aura v. h. hoofd = Aura of the head.

Just as we imagine the coming into being of the material centres
of power of the planets, by contraction of matter round a centre, we
may imagine the human body as being arisen by the condensing of
more ethereal vehicles of the Ego; just as every Cosmos therefore
in its first periods of material existence has the lens-shape (the astro-
nomical observations point this out in the nebular spots), we may
imagine the human body contracted from the lens-shape, of which the
heart (the Sun the life-giver) is the centre and in which the planets,
or the signs represented respectively by these planets, are arranged
in regular order as they occur in the Cosmos. We can then clearly
imagine why in this Cosmos on a small scale man every part
of the body comes under a special Zodiacal sign; how 25 rules the
breasts, the stomach; == the loins, the kidneys; n\ the genitals, # the

thighs etc., as the figure shows.
The aura of the head which is observed by clairvoyant people as

15



226

radiating far beyond the head and further the outer part of the aura of
the body, chiefly the mental aura, come under the signs Pisces,

Aquarius and Capricorn, expressing these signs in a higher octave. The
head itself comes as far as the cerebrum under Aries, while the cere-
bellum and the neck come under Taurus.

The Cosmos in Relation to Number, Sound and Colour.

The Cabbalists set great value upon the numeral significance of the
Zodiacal signs and of the planets and this becomes clear to us when
we take into consideration the fact that to them the numbers were
symbols with a profound meaning.

As they moreover in the whole Universe and its integrant parts saw
symbols, it is obvious that they sought the relation between the two,
and they found it. Thus all signs and all planets have received their
cabbalistic values of number, which I will give here briefly without
going into details, because it falls beyond the scope of this book. The
Cabbalists founded their predictions chiefly on this.

The most common number cabbala is as follows:
V = 7 & = 1 J = 4
X = 6 "? = 1 or 10 X = 3
n=3or!2 =0= = 8 ss = 2
ss = 5 n\ = 9 30= 11.

And for the planets in their Chaldean order:

O = 1 or 4 ft = 8
6

= 4 = 3
5

= c? = 9
2 or 7.

When we put the 7 planets in the
Chaldean order at the angles of a
7-pointed star, as annexed, we get,
by beginning at the Sun and following
the line, the rulers of the successive

days of the week (see p. 167) ; by
beginning at rf and taking every
other, we get the exact order of the

atom-weight of the resp. metals.

Atom-weight Atom-weight
1

d iron 56. O gold 196.2

$ copper 63.2 quicksilver 200.

j) silver 108. ft lead 216.
a. tin 117.5



227

This points out that the arrangement by the ancient astrologers and
alchemists was not a mere arbitrary one, because we cannot but suppose
that to them the atom weights of these metals was unknown.

Indeed, the connection existing between the different planets and
their metals is still more distinctly expressed in our language; we
speak of e.g. "the golden Sun", "the silver Moon", etc.

We have already mentioned the experiments of Reichenbach with
sensitive people and how he has shown that the parts of the heavens
to the sensitive eye display the various colours of the spectrum, agreeing
to the colours of the human aura. (p. 74, 248) We .know that the light
of the Sun by any prismatic atom is divided up into its 7 integrant parts,
which together form the white light, viz. in order, red, orange, yellow,
green, blue, indigo, violet, which are formed by the blending together
of the three cardinal colours red, yellow, blue.

Under the description of the planets we have already pointed out
that each planet agrees to a certain colour and tone, (O orange, C ;

1

3) green-silber, F; $ yellow, E; $ blue, A; d red, G;
2J. violet, indigo, B; r) grey, black, green, D,) and thus we can
imagine that the original white light of the Sun is divided up into its

integrant parts by the complicate prism of the planets, according to
the nature of the refraction, showing as colours and as chemical heat-

rays or as rays of light and sounds.
The pure, spiritual, white light of the Sun we do not observe as

such; our eye sees the material, coloured light of the Sun. The red is

in the spectrum the deep bass vibration of the ether (477 million vibr.

p. sec.), whereas the violet is the highest tone of the octave (699 million
vibr. p. sec.).

Here the close relationship between colour and sound (7 tones
7 colours) strikes us and we understand Goethe where he says

Die Sonne tont nach alter Weise
In Bruderspharen Wettgesang,
Und ihre vorgeschieb'ne Reise
Vollendet Sie mit Donnergang etc.

and another passage

Tdnend wird fur Geistesohren
Schon der neue Tag geboren etc.

That Goethe alludes here to the Harmony of the Spheres is

beyond doubt.
The bass note of the harmony of the spheres must be Mars red ,

the colour of matter.
Thus the colour of the sign Aries, agreeing to its ruler Mars

is red (the so-called Mars-red) and likewise with each other planet,
each sign has its special colour.



228

V red, V blue, rr yellow, 25 violet, Q, golden, in? orange, =0= blue,
ni red, ,? purple, ^ green, :s indigo, DC silvery blue.

Some have tried by combining the colour of the signs with those
of the Sun and the Moon, according as the Sun or the Moon are in

the different signs to give a colour-combination for all these cases,
but such a mingling of colours is sure to be inaccurate because we
have to take into account the moral standpoint of man in order to be
able to judge whether the planet or the sign will have the greatest
influence and the latter or the former influence the colour strongest.

Proportions in the Cosmos, in Nature and Art.

"God geometrises."
PLATO.

"The world is built upon the power
of numbers."

PYTHAGORAS.

When we regard the Cosmos in relation to the occult meaning of
the numbers as it has come down to us by old manuscripts and orally,
a hint is given by this, how we may seek further to discover the deeper
sence of the Zodiacal signs and planets.

Everywhere in the oldest philosophies number was accepted as the
basis for everything ; but also in later philosophical systems as in those
of Pythagoras and Plato, we find this basis of number.

Pythagoras denoted the Logos of our Cosmos by the number 1 and
matter by the number 2. The combination of the two, the Cosmos,
he denoted by the number 12. 12= 3X4 i.e. alluding to the Universe,
that this consists of 3 special worlds, connected by the chain of 4
elementary modifications, fire, air, water, earth, which develop in

12 concentric spheres. These 12 spheres are, according to Pythagoras,
occupied by the body of the Logos, consisting of light.

The so-called divine quaternary of the Pythagoreans is nothing but
the triplicity occurring everywhere which unites to a new unity
the 4. The 4 is therefore a higher stage of the 1, the 7 a higher stage
of the 4, and likewise the 10 of the 7, so in fact symbolising higher
conditions of consciousness, taken in the abstract; 1 is positive,
masculine (Osiris), 2 is negative, feminine (Isis), and by reaction of 1

on 2, 3 comes into being the neutral equilibrium (Horus).
The three combined give a new unity, the four, as we have already

mentioned.
By multiplying 3 by 4 we get the number 12 and by adding 3 to 4

the number 7 arises. We see the two numbers 12 and 7 which every-
where in all occult works, play a principal part, arise from the 3,
and the 3 arises by adding the 1, the symbol of the Logos, to the



229

number 2, the symbol of matter. The reader will become aware of the

mystic foundation of the origin of numbers.

Kant has shown in his "Kritik der reinen Vernunft" that the three-
dimensional space and all in it that manifests itself in three dimensions
to our eye, is only a form of representation of the human intellect, and
that the representation we make of it, is quite dependent on that intel-

lect. All valuation of length, breadth or height, so of space too, is

founded on comparison, and according as we ourselves become greater
or smaller, nature round us seems to be greater or smaller, and there-

fore, as Kant has it, the three dimensions of space are quite subjective,
wholly dependent on the limitation of the intellect.

One might from this conclude completely logical results e.g. that if

the three dimensions are but a representation of our limited we know
it is intellect, we may rightly suppose that still higher dimensions
may and must exist, which fall beyond our present conditions of con-
sciousness.

Another conclusion is also evident, viz. given the fact that we e.g.
see the things in space differently in proportion to our personal
consciousness, experience teaches us that we all agree in one
respect, viz. that we all see the things in relation to each other in the
same proportions, for if we see e.g. a whole object so many times
smaller, we also see each part of that object so many times smaller.
So as to proportions, we all observe equally and though our three-
dimensional senses always portray the things to us as they appear and
are not in reality, and we as starting-point of an argument cannot rely on
that which is material (where it concerns higher notions as basis),

something material is left to us which can serve us as safer starting-

point viz. the proportions of that which is material.

We obsen/ed in preceding pages that one should be able to show by
numbers that everything in the Universe is built up according to the

proportions in the Cosmos. We will try and show this in the four king-
doms of nature.

The most harmonious division of a line one can conceive, is that
called the Golden Cut or the divi-

^-^^JL^ , ding of a line in mean l
proportion. )

I 1
: ; Geometry teaches us, how to

major minor construct this division by means of
" " ~~ ^"""~ "

a circle to which a tangent and a
secant are drawn. The result is that

!) Among the ancient sages, we will mention Pythagoras and Plato who stated
that the Godhead works along mathematical proportions.

Of the later great mathematicians we mention Lucas de Burgo (also called Pacioli)
who very enthusiastically speaks of the Golden Cut, occurring everywhere in nature.

Of the great astronomers we mention Kepler who says : "Among the fixed pro-
portions an important place is occupied by the so-called Divine proportion".



230

c is to b = b is to a, so the square of the greater piece= the smaller
piece X the whole line.

We will call the two pieces major and minor.
The proportion of the two pieces is expressed in the formule:

- = ~ or m number: minor -r major = 1 -r 1.62 (correct to three

decimals 1 -r- 1.618).
scull-top This proportion we find behind every-

thing in nature, from the smallest subdivisions
of the organic world to the gigantic
measures of the Cosmos, and where we
find deviations, we see in those deviations

E top of neck a regularity which strikes us.

(bottom of chin) We begin with the human body. *) For
convenience' sake, we shall indicate the
fixed points that serve us here, by letters.

The annexed line represents the human
body divided into the proportionate parts.

'_ 5th vertebra of the With the body built normally we find the
loin following proportions.

BC -T- AC = AC - AB.
AE -r EC = EC - AC.
AG -r- BG = BG - AB.

G_ sitting-bone joint CF -r CD = CD - DF.
process CF = BD. The ma or of BD is CD and

CF is the major of EF.
EA is also the major of BD, hence

C_ end middlefinger CD = AE.
when pendant arm The two inner lines represent in the

proportions the major, the left line the
minor and the right one the whole line.

The nearer the proportions of the body
D_ half an inch under the approach these proportions the more beau-

knee-cap tiful and proportionate the build.

It is not difficult to add to these many
further divisions in major and minor.

In order not to digress we will only
mention the proportions of a few parts of

B- sole of the foot the body.

!) For study at greater length we refer to the works of Prof. Zeising, Dr. Pfeifer,
Dr. GOringer, entitled: "Der goldene Schnitt".

It is known to me that Sonnenburg has tried to prove that the golden proportion
is not predominant in the world, but his arguments are altogether in opposition to
the nature-scientific observations and facts, so that confuting them is superfluous.
Read Dr. Pfeifer concerning this; also refer to the end of this chapter.



231

Of the arm e.g. the lower arm is the major of the upper arm and
the outstretched hand is the minor of the lower arm.

Of the fingers the first phalanx is the major of the second, and the
second of the third.

The foot is divided into major and minor by the ball. The foot itself

is the minor of the lower part of the leg etc.

With the mammals the whole length from head to tail is divided
into major and minor by the standard of the frontlegs. In many cases
this is also true as regards the distance of shoulder to hip-joint. With
the horse and the hound for instance, the distance of belly to the ground
is major and the depth of the belly minor. The eyes divide the length
of the head into major and minor.

With birds the standard of the legs divides the length into major
and minor..

Dr. F*feifer makes very interesting studies regarding the proportions
of the body of insects and snails; with the latter the proportions are

very accurate indeed.
With many Orthoptera (straight winged insects) the span's breadth

of the fore-wings is to the length of the body as 1 is to 1.62. In like

manner are the lengths of the decreasing segments of which the hind

part of the body consists, also those of head, thorax and the hind part
of the body. With Coleoptera (beetles) this is also the case.

The same proportions can be found with the various forms of snail
shells and with a great number of sea-shells. Several kinds of Conchi-
lies may bfe easily experimented upon; they might be measured at the

outside, from groove to groove, or in section, from partition to partition.

1/5_ i
It will strike you that, wherever you find the proportion =

in nature, the respective parts that form this proportion, come into being
after each other as regards time. This may be noticed very distinctly
with plants. In the vegetable kingdom this proportion occurs in all parts,
but most distinct in the ramifications of the flower stem and in the
shape of the leaves of the interrupted and uninterrupted-feathered
leaves and also of the fin-shaped, fin-split and double-feathered leav es.

Just measure accurately the leaves of Spiraea Ulmaria and Spiraea
Aruncus, and those of the Umbelliferae such as Anthriscus Sylvestris,
Angelica Sylvestris, Chaerophyllum Bulbosum, also Acer Campestris etc.

As to the stem, the proportion of major and minor can be found
precisely with Lamium album and Lamium maculatum, also with many
Gramineae, Juncaceae, Alismaceae and of the Cryptogamae especially
the Horsetail kind.

With the position of the leaves and the ramifications, the same is

found. Zeising has done a good deal in researching in this direction.
The proportion is often to be found not in two successive knots, but
in two groups of knots or ramifications,



232

In the mineral kingdom also this proportion exists, for instance with
the axis of several crystals and with other proportions of length of

the cristal. (p. 76). Always we see the proportion return.

Even when comparing the distributing of water and land on our

globe, we find that the earth's surface is to the water's surface as 1 is

to 1.624. The land came into being after the formation of water.

And with man, as we have seen, the Golden Cut is particularly
accurately expressed in the hand, the most important tool of man,
which, when it is no longer directed by lower brain-thinking, but by
higher inspiration, produces works of art that show the same proportions
as those predominant in the Cosmos.

For what is it we see?
That in real, inspired utterings of art (inspired artists are very

1/5 i
rare, alas the

! proportion = exists. The inspired artist felt one with
)

the Cosmos, drew from the cosmic Conscience and gave therefore to
his work unconsciously the proportion of the Cosmos. We shall see

presently that the same proportion also predominates in the Cosmos.
When we regard the Greek and the Ancient-Roman temples we find

by measurement that the- breadth is the major of the height. The entrance
of the temple is the minor of the height of the pillars. Further measure
the cornice, the architraphe, the corona, the metopes and triglyphs, and
you will find the same harmonious proportions.

But also the more modern buildings that must be reckoned among
the high works of art, show the proportion of the Golden Cut, not only
in their large dimensions but also in their slightest subdivisions. I mention as

example of this architecture the Dome of Cologne, which shows the

proportion 1 -i- 1.618 usually correct to three decimals. I strongly recom-
mend the work of Baurat Haase x

) on this subject to the reader.
One should regard the ancient Greek 2

) and Roman temples as being
built after the proportions of the human body, as symbols as it were,
of man, and the old saying

!) J. Haase Der Dom zu Koln in seinen Massuerhaltnissen.
2
) The Greeks originally built their temples without roofs, in order that the Godhead

to whose glory the temple had been erected, might without pains take possession
of his temporary abode. They supposed the Godhead to be present in person during
certain ceremonies, and when the Godhead was expected, the entrance to the holy
of holies remained open and nobody ventured to throw a glance in that direction,

during that time. They built the abode of the Godhead in the proportions they
imagined the Godhead to be and these proportions they found in the Cosmos, in

man, in nature arround them. The temple was therefore, as it were, erected
along the lines of power which occur in nature. Later the top covering was intro-

duced, the cupola, the arches, but here also is kept in mind the human form, drawn
up in a certain attitude.



233
N

"Man is the measure of all things"

should therefore be regarded as literally true not only in relation to
; this,

but also in relation to everything in nature. Are not the same propor-
tions as those of the human body found everywhere and behind every-
thing in nature?

It would lead me too far to show these relations also in the master-
works of plastic art and of painting.

Of the latter I will only mention the Last Supper of Leonardo da
Vinci. See e.g. the harmonious difference of distance in which the four

groups of Apostles are arranged to the right and the left of the Christ.
In many pictures of Raphael the proportion in maj. and min. is to be
found also.

;

It is present in our original instruments which are in reality pro-
jections of the various parts of our body. It occurs in the most melodious
of all musical instruments, the violin; it may be traced in the number
of vibrations of the spectral colours, in the tones of music, everywhere.

Just compare the number of vibrations of the composing notes of
the quart-sext-chord, which is esteemed by many the most beautiful
chord in music. The quint is the key-note here, so that we get c, f,

g, c g, c, e, g etc. Here the numbers of vibration of the resp.
4 notes are as minor -r- major of the golden division. (Refer to A. Kullak,
Das Musikalisch SchOne, about the music of Haydn e.g.).

The Sectio aurea or Sectio divina as this proportion is also called,
must come to our view everywhere, because it is the principal proportion
in the Cosmos, and because the Cosmos is the original pattern of every-
thing we see as copy in nature round us. That this proportion is

really found everywhere in the Cosmos, Dr. Pfeifer a.o. has most
clearly shown.

He distinguishes an outer and an inner group of planets, divided
by the Asteroids. Every group contains 4 planets viz. the outer contains
2J., ft, # and tp and the inner & $, , rf.

Taking the mean distance between and the Sun to be 1.000, we
get for the other planets the following distances proportionate to it and
on an average.

Inner group. Distance. Outer group. Distance.

L g 0.387 V. 2J. 5.202.
II. 0.723 VI. 1? 9.538.

III. 1.000 VII. # 19.182.
IV. d 1.523 VIII. 30.033.

He now applies the law that by adding the homogene terms of equal
geometrical proportions, one gets the same geometrical proportions. He
sets about as follows



234

First group.

sum total = 1.387 sum total = 2.246

The proportion of these sums total is = 1 -i- 1.619, so a difference
of 0.001 to the correct proportion.

V 2j. = 5.202 VI ft = 9.538
VII # = 19.182 VIII = 30.033

sum total = 24.384 sum total = 39.571

The proportion of these sums total is = 1 -r- 1.622, so a difference of
0.004 to the correct proportion.

If one takes the sum of the distances of the odd numbered planets
, , 2|., $[, and compares it to the sum of the distances of the even
numbered 1

planets $, d , ft, t, one gets again a proportion deviating
only 0.004 from the correct one.

If we take the sum of only 3 planets of one group, viz. the sum of

, Q|., 9 and compare it to the 3 planets of the other group rf, ft, *,
we get resp. .the numbers 25.384 and 41.094 and the proportion of
these numbers is again 1 -r- 1.6188, so a difference to the correct

proportion of only 0.0008.
The times, taken for one revolution of the planet respectively, one

may compare in this way and find the same result, also e.g. the
diameters of the smallest and of the largest of the Moons of Jupiter,
or the diameter of Saturn to the seize of its innermost ring and one will
find the proportion 1 -i- 1.6175 etc. This mean proportion in the Cosmos
is also predominant in the four kingdoms of nature, but that it does
not occur everywhere need not astonish us. Indeed the Cosmos itself

after which the integral parts of these four kingdoms are formed, shows
us at various times only consider the differences with the Aphelium
and the Perihelium of the planets deviations from this foundation-

proportion! But this does not alter the fact that the golden cut is the

chief proportion in Cosmos and Microcosmos.

"As above, so below."



235

Astrology and the Bible.

"The numbers, the signs, the constel-
lations, nature, they all are con-
nected with the secrets of the Christian

religion."
KEPLER.

When we bear in mind that many descriptions in the Old as well
as in the New Testament are based on Cosmic-astro-logical foundation,
it is not difficult to show, that the Bible is not merely a historical

document, it is more than that, it contains in a symbolic form, the story
of the being of the Universe and of the coming into being of our Cos-
mos with all it contains. The Bible was written by men who attaining
to the knowledge of their own souls, attained to that of all souls, and
the Life, the Substance of Souls. A Bible is also a hieroglyph of the
Soul, and the Zodiac is the first Bible 1

).

The writers or composers of the various "Books" have brought their

symbolic representation of them as much as possible in relation to the
facts of history, as these have come down to them. This was not pos-
sible everywhere and seeing that the historical events only serve as a
veil for the Truth, they allowed liberties; and therefore history in the Bible
does not coincide here and there with the facts as they really took place.

Our Bible which is so much abused in all directions, by those who
want to prove all possible kinds of material hypotheses by means of
bible-texts (that have a deep cosmic meaning), is full of astrological
symbolism.

The seven planets and twelve signs of the Zodiac are represented in

the most diverse ways; this would already fill volumes, and one
might go on analysing the Bible, both the New and Old Testament 2

)

in this line.

All original religions are based on astro-logic, every form of religion
is a reflection of that which took place in higher planes and the rituals

were closely connected with the position of the Sun in the signs of
the Zodiac.

Taking the cosmic month to be about 2160 year, after the retrogra-
dation of the vernal equinox of about 50' a year, the Cosmic year
totals about 26000 years, (see p. 17).

Reckoned after the time of the cosmic year the Sun is now in

Aquarius and before the beginning of our era it entered the sign Pisces.
Therefore we find everywhere with the ancient Christians the fish-symbol.

!) See: A. Kingsford. The Perfect Way.
-) Refer to the classical work of Giovanni Schiaparelli, director of the Brera-

Observatory on: "Die Astronomie des Alien Testamentes" (German translation). He
regards it from another point of view as the occultists, but in that department also,
he finds the relation between the Bible and the knowledge of the stars.

Refer also to the works of Pryce on the Apocalypse and on the Gospel of S. John.



236

The disciples of Christ were fishers fishers of human souls. There is

ever question of fishing, of multiplication of the fishes etc. This symbol
is found a.o. in the Catacombs of Rome on a number of Christian graves
that date from Nero's time, from the persecutions of the Christians.

The Old Testament is principally written after the Egyptian astro-

logy, an inevitable result of the Egyptian exile of the Jews. During
the first Dynasty there were not accepted twelve signs of the Zodiac,
but ten. If at that time the number of signs had been taken to be
twelve, Moses would not have engraved 10 but 12 commandments in
the stone tables *).

The New Testament is principally written after the Chaldean astro-

logy, viz. it came into being centuries after the return of the Jews in

Palestina, where the Chaldean astrology was being studied. Here and
there the earlier Egyptian influence cannot be denied.

In Chaldea, Babylon, Assyria there was a time when 36, and later
24 Zodiacal signs were supposed to exist, (it was probably a manner
of dividing into decanates) whereas not until the last centuries before
Christ the acceptance of 12 Zodiacal signs became universal.

We shall give a few examples from the great number of places
which have been studied, to show the relation of the Bible to Astrology
and Astronomy, pre-supposing that by this statement which we
regard as the most logical and comprehensible to our consciousness
we are not asserting that a great part of the facts in the New as well
as in the Old Testament have not really occurred. On the contrary the
events taking place on the higher planes are reflected on the physical
plane, so there we see only the reflections, usually without surmising
their deeper sense.

!) The sign ^n., the sign of equilibrium, was inserted by the Greeks in the 10

signs of the Zodiac, and the signs tip and n\ were originally one, before the

inserting of =o=. This sign occurs since the moment that the division in the two
sexes with humanity during the Lemurian period took place. Man ( =n=) is now in

between the feminine principle in its two significances, the serving, saving prin-
ciple It? on one and the tempting, material principle rn, (the snake of the dra-

gon) on the other side, and it is the task of the former to overcome the latter

principle. This fight is symbolised in different ways by the fight with the dragon.
That is why the sign n\ always represents danger, coming from the side of the
material senses. The Zodiacal signs (their symbols) are nothing but this snake (the
tempter, matter) represented in various attitudes thus symbolising the road of
evolution. We can say the same of the letter-signs of the original languages,
derived from the Zodiacal symbols and this can still be traced everywhere in our
modern letter-signs.

Thus the signs tip, n\ are represented by the letters L, M, S, and Z, and by
combinations of these letters. Most hissing-sounds come under m. m the
talismans, amulets, etc. of the Ancients that occupied themselves with black magic,
the letters S. and Z. occur frequently. These letters usually mean something mali-
cious, dark, that cannot bear the light.



237

The Jewish era dates from the vernal equinox of the year 3761
before Christ and we are at once struck that the time of the Easter

offering was fixed on the day of the New Moon which comes nearest
the vernal equinox. At that point of time the Sun comes in the sign
of the Ram (V) or called otherwise the Lamb (the offering of the Lamb).

At the time when the Jews, driven from Egypt, went to Palestine
the symbol of the Ram came into use, viz. the vernal equinox by the

precession of the Sun came out of the sign Taurus the Bull in

Aries, the Ram. In Egypt they had worshipped the Golden Calf, as

long as the vernal equinox was in the Bull (V). During that time the
Bull was the symbol; the Bull, Apis, was worshipped and adored
not only in Egypt, but when more than 2000 years before the journey
of the Jews out of Egypt, the vernal equinox of the Sun had entered
the sign Taurus, we find in the Babylonian empire as well (which was
then highly flourishing), the symbol of the Bull introduced. We find it

on many sculptures dating from that time, and history affirms that here
as well as in Assyria and Egypt large feasts were kept in honour of
the Bull, which they adorned with flower, and a golden disc (O) between
the horns and led round. Two thousand years before this, when the
Sun had entered the sign Gemini, the Twins, we find the latter with
the Persians, and in their religion a twofold worshipping. On one hand
Ormuzd, the God of Good, on the other hand Ahriman, the God of Evil.

Before this period there was the Indian-Brahman, when the vernal
zodiacal sign of the Sun fell in the sign of Cancer.

The vernal sign is now in s:, with which humanity approaches the
Slavonic period, in which the excesses of the intellect shall be tempered
by a feeling of fellowship and association.

"On wings of music the purified soul, harmoniously tuned, shall soar.
It shall be a period born out of deepest sorrows and untold-of grief."

(ft and $ are the rulers of s:).
This period shall be followed by that of the 7th sub-race of the

Arian root-race, viz., the American, when the Sun by precession enters

Capricorn. Then the intellect and the highest feelings of fellowship
shall come to a pure (ft) expression. The unity of all races shall in the
United States of America arise from the crucible, in which all nations
of the earth shall be blended.

The twelve Apostles symbolise the twelve chief stages in the evolution
of the man that has become self-conscious, of which St. John represents
the highest stage. Just as man formerly was hermaphrodite, this stage
will again be reached in higher evolution of mankind, when therefore,
no difference in sex will exist any longer. This the greatest among
artists knew, such as Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael and that is why
they in their pictures give to St. John in his appearance and attitude

something feminine. These artists were mystici.

The highest three stages of humanity have not yet manifested



238

on the physical plane. Here the relation is shown between the
12 Apostles and the 12 Zodiacal signs, or rather the 12 planets con-
formable to them, of which as we shall try to show in the esoteric part

9 have at present manifested on the physical plane.
We have to regard (as we have seen on p. 32, 34) the 12 stages

of evolution of the Logos, the Creator of our solar-system, in the 12
Zodiacal signs ; and in the 12 planets, the 12 principal stages of Man in

evolution, symbolised by the Apostles.
Of the Apostles only nine appear active, the remaining three

are only mentioned.
Christ said to the Apostles "Thou shalt sit on twelve thrones, judging

the twelve tribes of Israel".

The Twelve tribes 1
) represent the 12 parts of the heavens, (resp.

the 12 houses of the horoscope) of which the planets are rulers. The
tribes are gathered round the four sides of the Tabernacle, the 4 quadrants
of the horoscope. Here we see the combination of the 4 triplicities
and the 3 crosses of the horoscope (p. 34).

The breastplate with precious stones, worn by the Jewish highpriests,
was an astrological symbol, every stone represented a sign of the
Zodiac and they may be classified according to the order along which
up to this time the jewels are arranged under the different signs.
(Compare Astrology in the Apocalypse by W. G. Collingwood).

In the same way the jewels which are spoken of in the Holy City
of Jerusalem have to be regarded. (Revelation of St. John).

The new Jerusalem which St. John saw, when he was led to the moun-
tain by the angel, (the mountain symbolises a higher condition of conscious-
ness, a wider view) had the shape of a cube with 12 gates and at
the gates 12 angels and the names written on the gates were the
names of the 12 tribes of Israel. On the east, the north, the south and
the west were 3 gates (see the division of the horoscope resp. the heavens).
The wall of the city had 12 foundations, 12 gates garnished with 12 precious
stones, representing the 12 Patriarchs (sons of Jacob) etc.

!) Compare the Sons of Jacob with the conformable signs of the Zodiac and
read what is said of the characters of those 12 sons in Genesis 49. The conformity
is very evident e.g. with Aries "Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall
overcome at the last" ; with Leo "Judah is a lion's whelp" ; with Scorpio "Dan shall

judge his people, Dan shall be a serpent by the way"; Virgo he
"Naphtali, giveth

goodly words" (^ the planet of speech); Aquarius "Reuben, my first born and the

beginning of my strength (s: man, $: the planet of the higher octave) ; the Fishes,
"Simeon and Levi "O my soul, come not thou into their secret assembly" (12th
house the fishes, a double sign) etc.

In other cases, in order to find the connection, we have to consult the old
symbolic star-maps e.g. with Cancer, "Issachar an ass, couching down between
two burdens. In the sign Cancer two stars bear the name of resp. north and south
ass.This subject might be treated more fully, but that would lead us beyond the
scope of this work.



239

What else can be meant by the "New Jerusalem", than the purified
human body, purged of the animal passions and arrived at harmony with
the Cosmos after which it is built in its different parts, physical, astral
and mental (in the horoscope represented by the houses, signs and planets).

St. John was an experienced occultist and astrologer, this is

shown everywhere a.o. by the stones which garnish the gates and
which agree in order to the precious stones as they had to be worn in

each month, so when the Sun went through an other sign according
to ancient astrological tradition. The first foundation was jasper, i.e. the
stone for Aries (St. Peter). Of him Jesus said : "On this stone I shall build

my church." The 12 stones together represent the church
; but at the

same time the Cosmos and Man.

As the whole moral world rests on the 12 Apostles (the 12 stages
of evolution), so does the whole Cosmos rest on the Zodiacal signs,
the 12 stages of evolution of the Logos "the Ring-pass-not."

The Angel showed St. John a new heaven in man himself and a
new earth, the purified body, no longer subjected to disease and
misery, a body grown from the old one and that corresponds to the
first Adam which is spoken of in Genesis, the Adam created before
the animals. The second Adam in Genesis represents the unpurified
body and this Adam was not created till after "all the other work was
finished."

St. John saw the "holy city" in the shape of a cube. Why exactly
a cube? Because a cube develops from a cross, by folding. The

cross represents the unpurified physical body, which by
folding develops into a cube, the purified body. The meaning
is evident.

|

The tabernacle had also the shape of a cube it
; consisted

of three parts, the fore-court, symbolising the physical body,
the temple proper, the astral body, and the holy of holies

which no body was allowed to enter, representing the Ego. Compare
the structure of the ancient Greek and Roman temples, which all of

them, in different ways, symbolise man. As long as man is still deep
in matter, his symbol is the cross, and by regeneration so not by
generation the cube develops from it, the higher man, God's image,
the pure reflexion of the Cosmos.

The 12 gates represent the 12 openings in the human body through
which the forces of the Cosmos enter. The principal street is the

brain-spinal cord, through which runs the river of life the spinal
marrow. The tree of life rises on it (the 12 pair of brain-nerves).

The 24 elders, seated on thrones, are the mediators between the
7 angels of the planets and the 144000. This number 24 takes its origin
in the time of the Chaldean astrology, when 24 zodiacal signs were
supposed to be.



240

The four animals typify the fixed cross of the Zodiac, the Bull (X),
the Lion (Q.), the Eagle (ni), the Man (zz).

When we conceive the story of the three wise men from the East
symbolically, all that is inexplicable disappears. The three wise men,
magicians, had computed that a certain constellation of two planets,
falling exactly on the meridian of Jerusalem, meant the birth at that

place of the Messiah, the World-Teacher, whose advent had been fore-
told. And guided by this "star" or constellation, they came to wor-
ship Him.

The life of Jesus is not only a tragedy which took place about 2000
years ago, when the Sun entered the sign of Pisces, it is not only a
story in the new testament which can, in one's study, be tested objectively
according to history, and be criticised (modernism), nor a mere fact that

only needs "belief" in order to procure heaven to man (orthodoxy). This

tragedy lives around us in the stars Macrocosmos and in us, their

image Microcosmos. It is the cosmic tragedy in which the whole
Cosmos always plays its part.

Jesus symbolises the spiritual "reincarnated" man who rises from
matter i.e. evolves.

John the Baptist, his predecessor, is the symbol of the material man
who has reached the lowest point of involution and of whom is said:
"no one is more profet than he, but the least in the Kingdom of Heaven
is more than he."

This is expressed by Lena de Beer as follows: The Christmas of December
the 24th signifies the triumph of the mystic Sun, in contradistinction to

that of the physical Sun on the feast of St. John, June 24th, when the
Sun after having reached its zenith, arrives at the summer-solstice when
entering the sign of Cancer According to the Secret Doctrine

(II p. 598) John the Baptist, born when the physical Sun was in its

Zenith, was only "a not initiated ascete." So that he could teach his

pupils no higher wisdom than the mysteries relating that sphere of

matter of which water is the symbol. That is why John the Baptist
witnessed of Jesus as follows, "I baptize you with water, but ... he
shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire."

When on Dec. 25 th, in Christmas night, the Sun in Capricorn passes
the Meridian, the new Light is born. The days begin to lengthen. On
June 24 th, the date of St. John's birth, the days begin to shorten. So
we understand another side of St. John's relation to Jesus when St. John
says, "He shall increase and I shall decrease." The natural man, the
old Adam, must decrease, whereas the spiritual man, Christ, increases."

The three wise men, the three stars forming Orion's belt (the three

magicians) travel rise from the East to the West, to the spot
where the new Son of Light begins its course. They had from the East



241

seen his star above the horizon there where Bethlehem (Virgo) was,
the House of Bread. That star, (np, Virgo, Mary's birthday is held on
Sept. 8th ) the Virgin with the ear of corn -r- "Spica" in the hand,
(just like the latin Ceres, the goddess of the vegetable kingdom and
especially of corn) went with her companion Bootes Joseph from
her house at Nazareth in the direction of Jerusalem, where Bethle-
hem was situated.

There in the inn, (because there was no room in the Zodiac) the
new-born king was laid in the house of 2B in the manger between
Ox or Bull and Ass, (cf. "Issachar, an ass lying between two burdens",
while the shepherds of the capricorns (%) abiding outside, in the field
listened that night to the "Peace toward men" of a multitude of mes-
sengers from the Heavens.

The snake, the dragon, Herodes armed with the cudgel, rises then
in the East. The Ram (V), also called Lamb, flees before him in the
West below the Horizon towards Egypt.

When Jesus passed Jordan, (the Milky Way Via lactea) the heavens
were opened unto him, (here the Milky Way parts, and the constel-
lation of the Swan Cygnus becomes visible) when he was baptized,
the Spirit of God descending like a swan or dove, lighting upon him.

Jesus, walking by the sea, saw the Twins, two brethren (n), above
the horizon, Simon and Andrew, who followed him. And going on, he
saw the fishers James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, men-
ding their nets in the ship Argo. Next he met the publican Levi
(at the toll or Scales =0=) and said unto him ^Follow me".

On the first day of the week "they went through the corn." When
the Sun enters the sign of the Virgin, which is originally the summer-
sign, the corn is being reaped. The Sun, Light and Heat turns
all its Light from corn to bread, the green leaves absorb the sunrays

the water also turns, through the sunlight in the plant, from grape-
juice into wine (blood). Thus says Christ at the Last Supper, "Eat my
bread and drink my blood. Take it, be one with me, when I go in to

you, My life becomes your life, My power your power."

When at midnight the Lamb or the Ram (V) the vernal equinox,
passes the Nadir, the moment has come when, the priests would seize
the "Sun of Righteousness". The Lion (1) Judea, Judas, the red-haired
one, knew his place; viz. that 1 was 30 degrees (i.e. with 30 pieces
of silver) above the horizon, to give the Lamb (V) the traitor's kiss.

When the 30 pieces of silver have been cast down before the feet

(horizon) of the chief priests by Judas, have been given back
Judas (Q.) disappears below the horizon he has hanged himself.

Jesus was delivered to one of the governor's soldiers (Hercules).
16



IM; -*

& m

;Mif-
LJ

*

11* 8
1

la I ! i-l
5

00 (fl g> g X

o
N

^> V, v,,

H cr <|



243

"The soldiers put a crown of thorns (Corona) upon his head." "In the

morning they took Jesus into the common hall and put on him a scarlet
robe." The Sun shows its royal robe at sunrise in purple glow.
"The band of soldiers took the robe off from him and led him away
in his own raiment." When the Sun rises higher the purple glow
disappears and the Sun radiates its pure white light.

Simon of Cyrene, the man from the country, is Bootes who bears
the cross, the point where ecliptic and equator intersect.

Golgotha, the place of the skull is the cup; Mary Magdalene, the

hair-plaiter, is standing near the cross. One will find her as Berenice's
hair at the heavenly vault.

"The soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, parted his garments in

four parts (for each of the four soldiers his share) and the robe was
without a seam, woven in one whole" i.e. the

; pure, unrefracted, white
light of the Sun, Joseph's robe was many-coloured, Joseph represents
as viceroy the refracted light, refracted into the 7 colours by the

sphere of the earth.

"When there was darkness over all the land, the bodies of the
saints arose from their graves" the Stars becoming visible in the
heavens, as soon as the veil of day-light is rent with the eclipse of
the Sun, and the stone (i.e. the Sun's radiance) is rolled back from the

grave of the stars.

Niemojewski, from whom part of the preceding has been taken,
says, "Let us learn to look up from the golden bee which alights on
the blue calyx, to the starry bee that hovers along the blue vault of

heaven; from the faithful dog on earth to the dog that runs its .course
in the heavens and faithfully indicates the times and their changes;
from the mighty lion on earth to the lion in whose sign the divine Sun
is placed in summer, before it declines to autumn. Let us worship not
the earthly but the heavenly ones that it may be brought home to us

;

how wise and majestic all this is!

Thus the stars, nay the heavens themselves, reveal their secrets to
us. The distance which separates us, is neutralised by the sense of a
joint tragedy.

It should be borne in mind with these astrological explanations,
that in consequence of the precession, the Sun's position in the starry
sky is modified in course of time. What the heavens of August show
now, is about what 20 centuries ago July showed. The preceding should
be studied with a common star-map, in connection with the mythologies
as they took their origin in all nations of antiquity, and as they form
one logical whole with Astro-logy.

When in the story of Job we substitute Satan by Saturn and we



244

imagine that Job's progressive Sun came in conjunction to I? in J? in

his radix horoscope, thus setting into action an inharmonious aspect of
Mars at the same time, we understand the talk of God (O) to
Satan (ft) and God's permission to put Job to the test. The disease Job
suffered from, was small-pox, a typical Mars-Saturn disease. Job's further
trials also are experiences anyone might undergo under suchlike aspects.

The drama of the crucifixion of Christ we might conceive as being
., symbolised in the cardinal cross of the Zodiac;

the sign V is in the occult sciences the sign of
Christ and so here represents Christ on the cross
formed by the Meridian and the Equator. The foot

^ of the cross rests on =o=. The crucifixion takes
25r *

place on the day of the equinox, in the sixth hour,
the exact moment the Sun (the Son) sets dies.
Darkness set in, the veil of the temple is rent
in twain. (The temple the Cosmos, Earth
on this day of equinox, is divided by the equator

into two equal parts day and night are of the same length). On Christ's

right hand and on His left hand a thief was hanged, symbolising the signs
25 and ^. These are the signs in which the equinox takes place, so
here either night becomes shorter and day longer in 25 there is

taken off the night and in % off the day (the thieves).
The thief 25 rises to heaven with Christ, viz. this sign is rising, the

other (rfT) sinks in the grave, under the horizon the netherworld
the kingdom of Satan or Saturn (the sign *% of which ft is the ruler).

At the moment of the crucifixion of the Christ, the Sun was in the

Ram, in the neighbourhood of the fixed stars El Nath and Natic, (the
meaning of these names are resp. the wounded man and the killed man).
Christ, the Son is evidently symbolised here by the Sun which came
from Pisces (DC) in order to be crucified in Aries.

The Crucifixion symbolises the "lowest" point of the descent of the

Logos in matter, the Sun reaches its lowest meridian for the northern

hemisphere on the day and hour of the crucifixion. From that moment
the Sun ascends, in other words the material recedes, the spiritual
becomes predominant. The two criminals, symbolised by % and 25

represent the lusts and desires of the material life, which are partly
conquered and therefore sent back to the netherworld whence they
came, and partly transmuted, ennobled, so that they rise up to the
Zenith as higher qualities. Taken in this sense the crucifixion symbolises
at the same time the evolution of individual man.

-
; :?-*PI

When we study the Bible in this way, a new light rises for us, at

every passage, on its inner meaning and much that was enigmatical
to us so far, becomes clear. We must bear in mind that much has
been wrongly translated in the Bible and is therefore obscure.



245

We want to repeat here that by the foregoing explanation of the
Crucifixion is not meant to deny the actual Crucifixion of the Saviour,

on the contrary, the cosmic event makes the event on the physical
plane a necessary consequence. We only give it to show that usually
the Bible can only be understood by accepting that a cosmic occurrence
is represented symbolically by an occurrence on the physical plane.

Conclusion and Esoterics.

A. Relating Matter.

When by our own observation we have come to the conclusion
that the influences of the celestial bodies on man and on the entire

surrounding nature, do exist, and anyone who is not prejudiced
must observe this, if he takes up the study seriously, even though it

be but cursory what conclusion must force itself upon us irresistibly,

apart from what we may hear regarding this subject from theologists
and prejudiced opponents?

That all life in the Cosmos it may express itself consciously as
in man, half consciously as in animal and unconsciously as in plant
and mineral is one with and inseparably connected with the One
Life that animates the whole Cosmos and at the same time is its

Substance, i.e. the Life of the Logos, the Creator of the Cosmos, God,
called by the name of Nature, or Power of nature etc. by others.

All that exists is a manifestation of this Life of the Logos, or put
otherwise: our whole Cosmos is the Logos in its numerous forms and
conditions of manifestation.
We have treated above how the philosophers of Antiquity and

later a.o. Pythagoras and Plato represented the Earth and the planets
as spiritual beings and how this opinion is shared by the present day
occultists. We will quote here what is said regarding this point by one
of the most ingenious scientific thinkers viz. Kepler.

Kepler *) says :

"That the earth really has a soul, the observation of the state of
the weather and the planetary aspects whence this springs shows us.

Under certain aspects and constellations the air becomes always in

commotion; with absence of these aspects it remains quiet or the

changes are insignificant. These and numerous other phenomena in and
on the Earth are so regular and measured, that they cannot be ascribed

Kepler, Harmonices Mundi.
f Kepler there are still three volumes manuscript on Astrology in the British

Museum, unpublished lost to the world therefore !



to blind reason and as the planets themselves know nothing of the

angles their rays form with the Earth, the Earth must have a soul.
The Earth is a living being; one might find in it and on it all that
is analogic to the parts of the animal body.

"The Earth possesses a formating power, a certain imagination,
motion, certain disease, and its ebb and flow is its process of

respiration. A certain image of the Zodiac and of the remaining firmament
is printed by God in the Earth's soul.

"This is the connection between that which is heavenly and that
which is earthly, the cause of the correspondence between Heaven and
Earth, of all actions and movements on Earth.

"The planets and its aspects have an influence on the inner power
of man. They arouse all kinds of emotions and passions and through
them, often at the same time, the most frightful actions and possibilities.

They influence the conception, the birth and through that the tempera-
ment and the character of man, and on this, for the greater part, Astro-

logy is founded."
Kepler says further: "Probably the Sun does not only radiate light

and heat into universal space, but it is also the centre and the seat of

the pure intellect x
) and the source of harmony in the whole Cosmos

all planets are spirited."

In order to become manifested the Logos must limit himself, where
He wished to manifest ; and to that which is perfect, there is only one
manifestation possible viz. the perfect manifestation, and in order
to create, the Creator must suppose part of Himself over against Him-
self. It is evident that this limitation took place ; wherever consciousness
appears in different degrees of development (and we see this every-
where about us) limitation in some direction must have taken place.

In a physical way we can represent this limitation by thinking of

vibrations. All expression of life and consciousness in whatever way, is

a vibration, and however poor this word and this representation may
be, we have no better and are compelled to be content with it.

We know further that everything in nature as well as in our life,

is subjected to a certain rhythm, an increasing and a decreasing. This
is the case both in great things and in small, in the Cosmos and in

the microcosmos, in man, animal, plant and mineral. This rise and fall

was called Manuantara (active expiration) and Pralaya (inactive inspi-

ration) in the ancient Hindu philosophy; and if we bring this rise and
fall into relation with the manifestation of the Logos we must arrive at

the following conclusion.
What we call the descent of the Logos into matterwe might imagine

as the slowing up of the vibrations of manifestation of which
the necessary consequence is another expression in the manifestation

See "Cosmos and Microcosmos" by C. Aq. Libra.



247

and first a change in what we call the condition of aggregation.
When we go in opposite direction viz. from the densest condition

of matter in which the vibration of the atoms is slowest, to greater and
greater fineness and therefore more rapid vibrations of matter, we get
e.g. beginning with ice, by heating water, next steam or gas with which
the well-known three aggregates of matter are complete.

F*rof. Crookes is supposed to be on the track of another expression
of matter, the so-called "radiating matter", which tends to be accepted
as a fourth l

aggregate. )

There are, however, more conditions of aggregation than these,
though our physical senses are not adapted to observe them. We may,
by further heating the ice from which we started, climb up to these

higher conditions of matter ; the third aggregate, steam (Or gas) is obser-
vable for us under certain conditions, but overheated steam which is of
so much use to us as dynamic producer is so no longer. Yet we
know that it exists.

We may go on with our process of heating and get at ether which
we may regard as the 4th aggregate of matter.

Though this ether has not been observed and shown by anybody
as yet, the material scientists are nevertheless obliged to accept its

existence, in explaining the phenomena concerning light, electricity etc.

The occult scientists have stated, centuries ago, that not only one
ether exists, but four, differing quite from each other. It does not
matter much here whether these 4 ethers may be regarded as identical
with the one well-known ether no more does it matter, whether with

;

our rarefaction of matter we argue in the wrong direction and in reality
the ether is the denser and a solid body the thinner 2

) ; I only men-
tioned this to show the possibility of the transmuting of the various

aggregates of matter into each other and so the possibility of the
existence of the other worlds and the other bodies of man.

Density and thinness are, for the matter of that, only conceptions
which have by no means an absolute meaning.

There are still more aggregates of matter than these four, viz. by

!) Prof. Crookes even believes that he has succeeded in making the atoms visible

by means of the very strong magnification of his spinthariscope. By means of this
instrument one can see swarms of "atoms" of a small piece of Radium fly in all

directions ; as soon as one makes them bump against a screen of zinc sulphide they
become visible as shining points. The atoms swarming from the little piece of Radium
consist of Helium. He computes that the very small piece of Radium that scarcely
can be seen, can go on 2000 years to send off Helium atoms in this way, before
it becomes altogether inactive and is transmuted in another material which
resembles lead.

2
) See e.g. Oliver Lodge "The Density of the Ether", in which he says that

the density of the ether is 10000 million times that of platina, Also compare his
lecture delivered in the British Association in September 1913, in which he says a.o.,
that science begins to discover a conformity between an atom and solar systems.
"Subjected to law and order the planets revolve round the Sun, just like the electrons
revolve round the core of the atom."



248

heating further and so making the vibrations of the atoms more and
more rapid, we may imagine that we at length arrive at, first astral,
next mental matter i.e. the matter of the two worlds I spoke about in
the beginning; worlds which permeate our physical world and in

reality are one with it. They are separated from us only by our brain-
consciousness, that cannot observe higher vibrations than those of the
third aggregate.
We have mentioned before that man possesses corresponding bodies

for these worlds, viz. the astral and mental bodies with corresponding
astral and mental senses, which we however cannot use under normal
circumstances, because they are veiled by our material senses. As soon
as we lose our physical body by death, and we awake in our astral

body and in the astral world, it is our astral senses which make us observe
this new world, and the same happens later on the mental plane.

The experiments taken by de Rochas and Durville with sensitive

people might count a material proof of the existence of the finer human
bodies. They brought their sensitive people in a magnetic sleep and
during this sleep there formed at a short distance from head and body,

as a radiating ribbon around them two or three radiating emanations,
which ran parallel with and round the body. By sensitive people these
radiading ribbons were distinctly observed, but even to the non-clair-

voyant man the existence of these emanations which should be
regarded as the exteriorized astral and mental bodies could be shown.
When viz. acids and biting materials were brought into the neighbourhood
of the radiating edge, the person, deeply asleep, cried out loud for pain,
whereas he did not react in the least when they were brought on his

tongue or palate. The physical body was totally unresponsive, like dead,
but the other bodies were wide awake and functioned *).

If the sleep became deeper, the astral plus the mental body could
quite loosen themselves and step out, as was observed, remaining
connected with the physical body by means of a radiating ribbon. These
observations square completely with the doctrines of occultism.

Occultists speak of the enormous powers hidden in nature and the
universal knowledge of which would be too dangerous to mankind,
powers, which might be abused, and then become disastrous. We
can understand what these powers must be, taking into consideration
that the power increases together with the velocity of atom-vibration.
We know the great power of over-heated steam, but a still greater
force, electricity, is already an expression of a higher aggregate of
matter (of one of the ethers).

The gigantic force, present in the still higher aggregates of the astral
and mental matter, we cannot even surmise approximately. We begin
to understand vaguely what power reigns in thought (a power of the

!) Cf. Dr. J. W. Kilner (London), who has invented a glass containing a coloured
fluid, which on being looked through, enables man to see the human aura distinctly
with the naked eye.



249

mental plane) and how we can apply this power for good and for evil.

Every thought of sympathy or of antipathy does good or harms and if

it does not find a fit ground to nestle, it returns to the sender and
affects him according to the nature of the thought.

By the power of our thought we will later when we have learnt
to apply it better and when we have reached a height in evolution that
we can do so, without danger to our surroundings and ourselves,
be able to create and to desintegrate to our liking, because we possess
the power to accelerate and to slow the vibrations of atoms.

Very few, highly evolved souls among mankind, are already now
to a degree in the possession of this power.

B. Treatise on Evolution.

So we see how by limitation of the manifesting power, i.e. by slo-

wing of the vibrations, the various solid bodies, fluids and gaseous
bodies arose and according as the consciousness of the Logos expresses
itself by the vehicles consisting of these aggregates, in more or less
limitation and in numerous forms, it manifests as man, animal, plant,
mineral.

These four forms of consciousness began their evolution simultane-

ously in the beginning of the earth-evolution viz. as man in the
most primitive form and condition of consciousness.

Evolving through thousands of centuries, man l
) passed the mineral,

the vegetable and the animal condition and reached that of the man of

to-day. This does not mean that man has ever been a mineral, plant or

animal, as we know them at present; the density of his body was
infinitely less than those of the present forms; for the manifestation
"descended" in lower, denser spheres, not according to place as we
can see now, but to condition of vibration.

The forms we know now as mineral, are stragglers from the time
when man passed the condition of mineral ; they are stragglers of that

phase of evolution, when the man-embryo went through the mineral
condition of consciousness. The plants are stragglers of mankind during
the evolution in the condition of plant, and the animals stayed behind
in evolution when man had reached the consciousness of the present-
day animal. The actual consciousness the soul of these three
forms, does not live in the form itself, but on higher planes. Present-

day man is therefore the only one who has passed the three stages of

evolution with success. He has left the other forms behind and so is in

actual sense the creator of those other forms.

!) The spiritual man, the Ego created before the mineral, vegetable and
animal kingdom. The material man (Adam) was created after that. (Genesis.)



250
'.*

So we must conceive the well-known expression "Man is at the
head of evolution" not as a beautiful phrase, but literally in its fullest

sense; of all creatures that began evolution simultaneously, he is

the foremost, he has left the rest behind and so far man has a per-
sonal, free will (see p. 20), that he has the power of remaining in the
front rows, or of coming among the stragglers in a next Manvantara
and to degenerate. This "free-will" became our selfconscious possession
when our intellect was sufficiently developed to be responsible
for our actions. This is symbolically called in the Bible "the eating of
the tree of good and evil, the tree of knowledge."

So man is no "highly evolved ape", but the ape is the degenerated
man from an earlier period of evolution and the different kinds of

monkeys among man we might perhaps regard as transitions!
Thus the animals, plants and minerals are the degenerated man-forms,

left behind, from former periods of evolution.
The body of man has therefore developed through the different

animal forms but the Man
; manifesting through them was, since the

beginning man.
What Darwin has taught in such an ingenious way about the origin

of species, keeps its full worth intact from this standpoint, provided it

be applied to the developing form and not to the individual, to the
consciousness itself.

In this point Darwin and his contemporary certainly as great as
he Russell Wallace differ somewhat in opinion. Wallace could not
succeed in convincing Darwin that in nature there were still other

powers operating than chemical and mechanical, and that the human
spirit cannot possibly have evolved along the same road as the body,

that a higher influx must be accepted for that.

Both worked out the theorem of natural choice of breed, quite
independently of each other, and from a different point of view

; yet
Darwin says and in quoting Darwin, in order to support materialistic

theorems, people are usually inclined to forget this that behind all

these activities in nature there is something we cannot understand.
Occultism also answers the question why these still unconscious and

half-conscious forms stayed behind, but it is beyond our scope to

treat this. l
)

We now return to our planetary system. According to the Nebular
theory of Kant and Laplace the planets owe their existence to the Sun
which, revolving in gaseous glowing condition, flung off rings which
condensed into planets, which also in turn move round the Sun. Kant
goes as far as saying "give me matter and I build you a Cosmos" and
he imitates the coming into existence of a Cosmos, by bringing a viscous

i) Cf. H. P. Blavatsky "The Secret Doctrine".



251

mass of oil in a small water tank in a revolving motion by a little bar.

Revolving rings separate, which contract to globules moving round the
central drop of oil, just like the planets round the Sun. Kant, one of the
greatest thinkers of his age, made here the unpardonable mistake to forget
himself. He forgot the hand and the little bar which made the revolving
motion appear!

It is this that occupies us in Astrology and by which Astrology
becomes the soul proper of Astronomy, which treats that which is out-

wardly observable.

C. Short esoteric treatise.

That wich is outwa'rdly observable, also in relation to the planets,
is only a infinitesimal part of the whole. The physical Sun we observe,
is only the physical manifestation of the Sun in the infinitely greater
spiritual Sun which comprises our whole planetary system. Without this
material centre of power of the Sun, no physical manifestation in our
whole planetary system would be possible. We may regard the physical
Sun as the heart of the Creator of our solar-system the Word, the

Logos and the Sun proper (which comprises the whole planetary system
and permeates it) as the higher bodies of the Logos in which every-
thing is, moves and breathes. J

)

The astronomer of to-day does regard the solar system as a
unity of laws, but without preceding investigation he ignores that
the personal life of man on earth is subjected to the relations of the

planets. He does so, principally because he ignores the soul of the planets,
just as before the revival of psychics, the medical men ignored the
human soul. For him only that which is measurable and weighable exists.

Thus we have to regard the visible planets as well, as physical
centres of power, which enable the high spiritual beings, co-operators
with the Logos, the Devas (Angels), to exercise their influence directly
on the physial plane. We say "directly", because along another road,

through that which is astral and mental, an indirect influence is exercised
on that which is physical.

The physical Sun is the cause of all manifestation on the physical
plane, the cause of all that manifests there. Imagine the terrible calam-
ity which would occur, were the Sun to cease, even for a single mo-
ment. In such a case all life would become extinct.

!) That Ptolemy's astronomical system is so hard to understand and is quite
pushed aside by later systems, is caused by his imagining the planetary system one
whole, one spiritual body, the integral parts of which permeate each other. That is

why it becomes impossible to explain the material cosmic phenomena as they are
studied by modern astronomy along his point of view. His standpoint was more
that of a seer-astronomer.



252

The Real Sun, however, is around us and permeates us; as the
Source of all spiritual life, it is in constant contact with our life (that
sprang from its source), which is individualised, though ever dependent
on and one with the Life of the Sun-Logos.

Thus the planets are also individualised manifestations of conscious-
ness of the Sun-Logos, they are high Creatures which during repeated
evolutions have reached a high standpoint, so that they can now
co-operate with the Logos for the evolving of the beings which they
have under their care and are the masters of, taking the expression
"beings" in the widest sense.

The question always put by everybody is "why is there so much
evil in the world, why are we so limited and not created perfect at
once?" I should think that it cannot be the purpose of a creation to
call automatons into being, which can not but do mechanically that
which is good, but rather to develop powerful, selfconscious beings that
are able to help the evolution of a Cosmos, because they have learnt
to realise the destructive influence of evil and know therefore in what
direction they must guide, in order to arrive at that which is good
i.e. harmonious. Moreover, the descent of evolution in matter, i.e. the slo-

wing of the vibration of manifestation, inevitably involves limitation -

and this limitation is, in its turn, the cause of all evil and disharmony.
Why then that descent into matter? Because through this only,

experiences could be gained, characteristics could be cultivated, which
could not possibly be developed in the higher planes, and besides, this
limitation was necessary as we have seen before, to make manifestation
in form and in various conditions of consciousness possible.

In the Bible is spoken of the Hierarchies, Seraphins, Cherubims,
Thrones, Archangels, which exercise their influence from the heavens
upon man and Earth ; and when we arrange these Hierarchies according
to their influence we become certain that nothing else is meant by this,
than the spiritual influences which act, in the different parts of the vault
of heaven on our Cosmos i.e. the signs of the Zodiac, and it is not
difficult to arrange these Hierarchies after their influences, as the Bible

gives them, according to the Zodiacal signs.
Now there are mentioned only 9 Hierarchies, while there are 12

Zodiacal signs and this tallies precisely with the occult teachings viz.

during three great periods of evolution or Manvantaras the Earth has
still to go through, another 3 Hierarchies will be formed. It is during
the present Manvantara that the Hierarchy of the Man evolves, of which
Christ is the perfect model. This 10th Hierarchy is already far advanced
in its formation and is already manifested.
We have mentioned before, that we may regard the Hierarchies as

the 12 stages of evolution of the Logos, influencing the Cosmos from
the 12 directions of the heavenly space.



253

We should conceive this influencing in its widest sense, for this influence
does not only express itself on the physical plane, as we have seen before,
but also on the astral in our emotions, and on the mental in our thinking.

Man is being thought. It is the Logos (with his 12 Hierarchies) who
pre-thinks and we reflect that thought, pre-contemplated to us.

The brains in all their subdivisions represent so to speak a finely
stringed instrument that vibrates to the thinking in the Cosmos, that,
as it were, throws back, reflects, the Cosmic thinking, and according
as our instrument is more finely tuned and the bearer of it is more
harmoniously related to the Cosmos, this reflecting of the Cosmic thought
happens more perfectly.

The assertion of materialists a.o. of Carl Vogt, that thoughts are
secreted by the brains just like urine by the kidneys, becomes an
absurdity according to this representation.

At the rising of a new Hierarchy a new planet manifests itself,

according to the esoteric or occult doctrine. l
) The planets for Aries,

Taurus and Gemini exist therefore already in the higher planes.
For the signs Pisces and Aquarius we have the planets t and &

which cannot be fully counted to our three-dimensional planetary
system ; they form a transition between the 3rd and the 4th dimension
and that is why only the highest among us can answer their vibration
in a somewhat normal way. With the lower characters that come under
their influence, their action expresses in a singular way, causing
sickly abnormalities in thinking, feeling and willing (acting).
We see the close connection here between genius and sickliness,

the same influence creates the two (p. 65, 67).
In occultism is further taught, that for every Hierarchy that comes

into existence, a great World-teacher rises, while also a new planet
becomes visible. Acknowledging this to be true, we can go further and
accept that for the sign Aries and the two following signs Taurus and
Gemini, planets must exist which are still invisible on higher planes
i.e. in higher dimensions but which will once be visible to man living
then. Successively man becomes master of the three planes viz. under
the V Hierarchy of the physical plane, under the X Hierarchy of the
astral and under the n Hierarchy of the mental plane. One might even
go further and represent this overcoming of the three planes in symbols,

the symbols of the invisible mystery planets! (For Aries f', Taurus
$, Gemini ).

By bringing the 12 signs into connection with the 12 Nidana's of
the Buddhists, a light is thrown on the inner significance of them and
by combination, one might along this road arrive to a degree at the
various chief causes why the Ego in hand reincarnates in a special
way. Read the order of the 12 Nidana's as follows 2

) :

1) Cf. H. P. Blavatsky. The Secret Doctrine,
2) Cf. the vwork of J. H. v. Stone. The Pathway of the Soul.



254

WQA.

V, Avidya= Ignorance ; V, Samskam= Latent Power ; n, Vynana=
Self-consciousness ; 25, Nama-rupa= the soul now takes on Name and
Form

; Q_, Sadayatana= development of the six powers of perception ;

tip , Sparsa= contact with the external world ; =o=, Vedana= Perception
and sensation

; 1U, Trishna = Thirst, Desire ; ^, Upadana = the result,
fruit of the strivings, assimilation due to desire; %, Bhava = Becom-
ing Gestation ; s:, Jati = Birth, Rebirth ; DC, Jardmarana = Decay
and Death.

Hoofdteekens = cardinal signs. Denken = Thinking.
Vaste = fixed Willen (werkz.h.) = Willing (acting).
Bewegel. = movable Voelen = Feeling.



255

The two chie conditions of reincarnation in a physical body are

always Avidya (V) and Trishna (ni) resp. ignorance and desire; so, as

long as these two qualities are not overcome and transmuted into wis-
dom and desire to serve others, the wheel of reincarnation will keep
to its turnings; Mars has to be overcome.

Mankind has passed the period of childhood, the lowest point of

being bound by matter is left behind, the period of spiritualisation
has begun, in which mankind gradually turns back to the Divine Source
whence it took its origin, along the same road but in opposite direction.
It turns back, however, with a rich harvest of experience and knowledge,
crowned by the individual self-consciousness which makes his view
wider and wider according as it progresses in evolution.

Of the three > r
supposed planets ( f we i l

, & ), w l have to seek the
one for the sign Aries (Y) beyond the path of Neptune, while those
for the sign Taurus (fcj) and Gemini () are either still beyond that or

possibly within the orb of Mercury revolving round the Sun and so they
might correspond to the two planets Vulcan

J
) and Pluto 2

) which are spoken
of in occult works. The astronomers suppose a planet to be beyond
the path of Neptune, thus concluding from certain disturbances in
the path of the just mentioned planet and which could be accounted
for in no other way, but by accepting a planet beyond the orbit
of Neptune.

CONCLUSION.

In order to somewhat understand the Cosmic powers which influence
us constantly in our thinking and acting it is necessary to be conver-
sant with the technical part of Astrology ; one should be able to make
the various calculations, not only for drawing up the radix-horoscope
but also for the progressions. The practising of horoscopy is necessary
therefore.

Our first inclination was [to omit the chapters on the planet-hours,
and a few things on mundane directions, on Sun- and Moon-revolutions
and Lunations, because we were afraid one would set too much store
on these matters, and the study of Astrology might degenerate into

"casting horoscopes" instead of being a system that can make us cast
a deep glance into life and evolution, but we thought we had better
insert them for completeness' sake.

!) Vulcan or Hephaestos, Son to Jupiter and Juno.
2) Pluto, the God of Hades.
Sutcliffe in his treatise speaks of Vulcan and Adonis and supposes them to be

the* moons of Mercury and Venus.



256

The latter should always be our chief aim, and that is why we
heartily hope that this book will not give rise to the springing up of

amateur-astrologers who waste their time in casting all kinds of horo-

scopes for their acquaintances without any serious purpose. In the
first place it has been written for those who cannot believe in the
influences of higher Powers, without seeing the proofs for it. These proofs
can be obtained along this road by any one who seeks earnestly and
if once one has settled one's conviction through this, Astrology becomes
to him a science of incalculable use as regards self-education and culti-

vation in general. Applied in this way, Astrology becomes a great help
and support through life.

As to the technics, confine for the present to the calculations of the
birth horoscope (p. 92) and those of the zodiacal progressions of Sun,
Moon and Planets, (p. 155.) Moreover the daily course of the planets
should be traced by their transits (p. 161) over the radix positions of

the planets. The same holds good for the eclipses (p. 164) wich fall on
these radix positions. Sun- and Moon-revolutions, day-horoscopes and
mundane directions, including the profections, should be left out of con-
sideration for the beginner.

The earnest study of Astrology makes us broadminded because it

demonstrates clearly that different people must have a different sphere
and it shows us that sphere in symbols. Astrology makes us therefore
tolerant with people of a different opinion. The astrologer knows and
understands that different characters must think and seek in different

directions and so he does not criticize different-minded people sharply or

disapprovingly, because their conception of truth differs somewhat from
his. He knows that their conception is the correct one to them, the

exactly fitting one for helping them on in their evolution.

Nobody will come to the conviction of these truths by mere argument,
but by investigation only, by experience and by thinking for himself.
One need not be ashamed of changing one's creed. One may at

most get from one limited little circle to the other, in the most unfa-
vourable case but in most cases by far, change of conviction in this

;

line means widening of sphere.



257

Sidereal Time. *)

We can know the Sidereal Time for each day of any year to
4 minutes correct, because it remains about the same for different years.
For instance, the sidereal time for July 1st 1879 is the same as that
on July 1st 1887, 1895, 1999 etc. and likewise for every date of the same
years. We can make the mistake even less than 4 minutes by counting
2 minutes less for the dates during the leap-years. So we are able to
find the S. T. and hence the Ascendant without ephemeris for the day
and the year of birth. Where extreme accuracy is required, one should
consult an 2

ephemeris for the particular year. )

The S. T. on March 22d of each year is about hrs. minutes,
for noon local time, and for every succeeding day 4', or more correct,
3' 57" are added. The calculation is very simple; we start at the 1st

of the nearest month and add or subtract.

The average S. T. is

on Jan. 1st = 18.43 on July 1st = 6.37
Feb. 1st = 20.45 Aug. 1st = 8.39
Mrch. 1st == 22.36 Sept. 1st = 10.42

April 1st = 0.38 Oct. 1st = 12.40

May 1st = 2.36 Nov. 1st = 14.42
June 1st = 4.39 Dec. 1st = 16.40

1) Cf. p. 92.
2
) See advertisement p. 260.

17



258
May 1913. RAPHAEL'S

(See the advertisement

D
M

1

3
5
7
9



259

EPHEMERIS. May 1913.

on the next Page.)

D
M



TABLES OF HOUSES.
For Glasgow, lat. 55 53' N. Liverpool 53 25' N.

Birmingham 52 28' N. London 5132'N.
New York 40 43' N. Calcutta 22 33' N.

Madras 13 4' N.

and all places in or near these latitudes. Also, tables
for all places in or near latitudes 37 and 45 N.

In all, nine different tables of Houses.

Price 1 S. 1 d. (fl. 0.75).

TABLES OF HOUSES.
For Plymouth .

Taunton . .

London . .









f