ASTRO SECRETS 
AND 
KRISHNAMURTI 
PADHDHATI 


PART 1 


(Late) Sn MLP. Shanmugam 
(K.P. Astrologer) 


FOREWORD 


The author of this book $n.M.P.SHANMUGHAM, 
has straincd his nerves, to find oul the truth in this 
Astroscience, following the foot steps and teachings 
of our beloved Guruji Sri.K.S5.Krishnamurtl for few 
decades and has found the truth, how the planets 
results/nalure Ls modilicd duc to varlous rcasons. 


In this book, the author shares his views and 
findings, that how the sublord theory offered to us 
by late Guruji Prof. K.S.Krishnamurti. who invented 
the K.P. Stellar tunethod, is the only one method 
available to us. to offer a result, lor the various Lype 
of qucsuions [rom the conluscd persons. who 
approach astrologers. to have their doubts cleared 
precisely. 


He has written in detail, the Sublord theory and 
the results in various houses and how the scientific 
analysis is to be made while offering predictions. 


His sincere efforts to propogate the Sublord theory 
of KP. a system which is to be practised In this [ast 
world, needs encouragement from one and all. 


Hyderabad ; 30-4-1995, Sd/-K. Ganapathy. 


Gnana Slromanl. Jyothish Visharath. 

K. Ganapathy. Eldest Son of Sothlda Mannan 
Jyothish Marthand Late Prof. K.S.Krlshnamurti 
1-11-201/105. Begumpet. Hyderabad 500016. 


AUTHOR 


This book “ASTROSECRETS AND KRISHNAMURTI 
PADHATHI" is dedicated at the Lotus feet of Sothid’ Mannan, 
Jyothish Marthand, Guruji Prof. Late Sri K.S.KRISHNAMURTI. 


A few words about me- 
My forefathers were astrologers, that is traditional astrologers. In 
their footsteps, | have been practising the same traditional 
astrology. 


During February 1977, a friend of mine, brought to my 
attention, say a small explaining about a matler-event, made by 
the genius Sri. KSK. This was the turning point. From the next 
day, | started following the same levels of analysis and found 
the truths, surprising and inspiring. 


From that day, KP for me, was a Voice from Heaven. | 
started mastering all the KP Readers. Thereafter | contributed 
my articles, an KP, in "Astrology & Athrishta”. 


| surprised the public in and around my area through KP 
with several findings, and continue the same to give the true 
findings to the public till today. Alongwith @, | added my own 
practical expenence to KP, which KP will prove to be a Thnill as 
the Readers go through this Book "ASTROSECAETS AND 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHATHI”. Sri KSK. to me is both a Guru 
and God. | have totally identified myself with this 
Guru-God-lmmortal KSK 


28.5.1995 od/- M.P.SHANMUGHAM 
70, llango Nagar. K.P. Astrologer. 
Sathy Road, 


COIMBATORE 641 044. 


Our Sincere respects 
to Late. Senior Prof. 
Sundarsen, Guntur 


K.P. Astrologer 


We, the publishers 


are thankful to Smt. Uma Venkataraman of M4. Susmitha 
aystems, Bangalore for having made the laser typesetting. 


We also thank Sri. N. Sunderason, Guntur/Bangalore for 
his able assistance in proct reading of the laser typesetting 
work. 


Our Sincere thanks to Sri P.Sudarsana Rao, Proprieter, 
“Sujatha Fertilisers’, Pattnam Bazaar, GUNTUR $22 003, an 
admirer of KP, for his part financial contribution of Rs.6000/- to 
bring out this book "ASTROSECRETS AAO KRISHNAMURTI 
PADHATHI” 


We expect to bring out the Part A publication of 
“Astrosecrets and Kriehnamurti Padhathl® around April-May 
1996. 


28.5.1995 sd/-K SUBRAMANIAM 


Sothidamamani 

K.Subramaniam, 

second Son of Jyothish Marthand, Sri.K.S.Krishnamurti 
Krishman & Co., 

804, Mount Road. Madras 600 COZ. 


ih 


CONTENTS 


Introduction 

What is Astrology ’ 

The Plancis- How do they act 71 
Planetary Aspects - I 

Planclary Conjunclions -] 
Planets in Retrogression - I 
Planets- How do they act ? II 
Mars Dasha 

What are the powers of Signs ? 
Lagna- (Ascendant)- KP cxplains 
About Accident - 6 persons 

The Native - Poor & Rich 
Planetary Aspccls - IT 

Planetary Conjunctions - II 


Planets in Retrogresston - IT 


The 12 Houses 


The 12 Lagnas (Mesha to Meena) 


Salient Points- Suhlord, the SUPREMO 


How to predict in the absence of a 
Nirayana Bhava Chakra ? 
Horary 

Method of Prediction 

Rahu & Kethu 

All about Lagna Lord 

Profession - Part I 


Profession - Part I 


101-209 


210-2238 


239 


ASTROSECRETS AND 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHATHI 


OM SRI UCHISHTA MAHA GANAPATHAYE N AMAH A 


PRANAMS TO GURUJI (LATE.SRI. K.S.KRISHNAMURTI} 


Astrology is a Divine Science. 


Astrology, the Divine Science deals with the inter-relation of 
the signs of the zodiac, the constellations, planets that creates a 
celestial phenomena which control and direct every happenings 
on earth, be it living or nonliving. Such an_ interrelated 
celestial-terrestrial connected phenomena was discovered by 
the great Sages and Siddhas of the ancient past, who found the 
several happenings on earth by their strong intuition, and 
through a long range vision. They found the happenings in a 
cosmic order known as RITHA in Sanskrit. These happenings 
through the cosmic order occurred in a cyclic pattern. They 
observed these cyclic pattern of phenomenons and recorded it 
in asystematic manner. 


They then analysed their findings and evolved a technique 
to translate an occurrence at the celestial level having a bearing 
at the terrestrial level. This technical analysis to -foretell was 
named Astrology. In the latter days, great thinkers made further 
research and found several new truths and gave a further new 


lite to this Astrology. They could foretell an event well in 
advance. They tested and cross-checked every events by 
themselves, because even till today Astrology is a cryptic and 
enigmatic science. 


As years passed by, still latler days thinkers were no match 
fo the sages of yore. The original Astrofindings were lefl without 
proper observations, corrections, and modifications required 
from time to time, for lack of guidance in applying the set rules. 
Every one, even he be an erudite scholar, started giving their 
own interpretation without any rhyme or reason. Naturally, 
Astrology the Divine Science became to be looked upon as 
superstition, a lie, afatalistic subject and so on. 


It became a fashion to speak ill of astrology by the educated 
class in general and by leading scientist in particular. On 
9.4.1986, the Daily Newspaper “Dinamani", carried the news 
from the mouth of Dr. Raja Ramanna, Head of the Atomic 
Energy Commission who expressed his view that Astrology is 
nothing short of superstition. Had this Divine Science been 
properly subjected to research and development, continuously, 
this sorry state of adverse comments would have been set aft 
rest and the public taken into contidence. 


Taking a flash-back, we are aware of a humble person, 
Guruji the late Sri. K.S. Krishnamurti, the mighty giant of the 
recent past, who found Astrology in all its pell-mell, set the 
House of Astrology in order and pristine purity by his untiring 
work, emerging at last victoriously, only to give his toil, free, the 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHATHI to all. tn the footsteps of our 
Guruji, | have ventured to bring out this book titled 
“ASTROSECRETS AND KRISHNAMURTI PADHATHI", as | 


honestly and sincerely felt, | should contribute my might to KP in 
a still lucid and clear manner, explaining about the-Behaviour of 
Planets, the say of Signs (Rasi}), the powers of stars, supreme 
the Sublord, planetary aspects, the pros and cons ol 
conjunctions, the level of Lagna Lord, the levels of Retrograde 
Planets, Horary level matters, several truths foretold pin pointed 
fo the very date, other event matters that took place exactly as 
predicted and several other findings of intelligentsia, through 
examples and authoritative evidences. 


Further Marriage, Ghild Birth, Profession, Political activity, 
Arts, Life, Disease, Peon to President level matters are covered 
in his book, which are very much explicit in his book. 


This book in the hands of readers interested in Astrology will 
match the taste of honey. A careful reading and analysis made 
as explained in his bock, and when predictions made, they will 
come true without a mistake. 


This book you will find how a happy life worth living is 
almost ruined by few telling about several doshas, Dasa-sandhis 
and so on. These few do not know to read the Lagna strength, 
birlh level matters, Dasa-bukthi and its connected probe from 
the tundamental level. These few pitch, only on transits of 
saturn, Jupiter, Rahu and explain to the public that all good and 
bad occur accordingly. Such false views are suitably 
contradicted in this book. Afler 15 years of research, tests and 
cross checks, this book is released of clear findings which are 
well explained, making it a very useful one. 


A person having faith in astrology consults an astrologer. 
The Native is a Simha Lagna born. Venus in 10th ruling his own 


house. Venus Dasa is on. Readings are made instantly, and an 
Astroverse Is also quoted supporting the predictions. 


"Content - matter - lord of 10th - a famous personality/ 
Fixed in the 10th - on all undertakings 
With blessings amasses wealth." 


This verse is found in page 517 of “Jathaka Alankaram" 
By meaning, Venus Lord of 10th, in his own house, and the 
Venus dasa also starts. This will shape a good profession, to 
give several profits, This Native will have a glonous and 
prosperous life. The consultant was very happy of the readings 
and took leave of the astrologer. In a short time he started a 
profession. Two years passed. Not a single good result was 
hoticed. The Native again approached the same astrologer. This 
astrologer also as usual made use of the saying that any Dasa 
in its own Swabukthi, till its period is over, one cannot expect a 
good result. Swabukthi was over followed by few other bukthies, 
which too were over, but only unfavourable results increased 
and landed him in a miserable position. Like this, generally, 
several view points are expressed without a proper probe of the 
birth chart. Such types of wrong and abuse of the predictive 
astrology made, circulates in the minds of the general public and 
even Up to the educated public, who at last are forced to come 
to the conclusion that astrology is nothing short of superstition, 
and a lie. 


Why this awkward atmosphere? Venus, lord of 10th, in his 
own house-ruling, Venus Dasa Is also on, several verses and 
literatures also confirming a favourable result, Why then the 
Venus Dasa gave harmful results? It is here the search and the 
research begins and it did begin. The intelligentsia of the past 


and the mighty giant of the recent past Sri KSK applied his 
findings, which crowned him with success absolute. 


For Simha Lagna, 10th house Rishaba contains 3 stars 
namely Krithika-Rohini and Mrigasira. Venus though lord of 10th 
in his own house, can rule the 10th only when he is deposited in 
any one of the 3 stars in Rishaba. As said, when Venus is 
posited in any one of these 3 stars, that star by its hefty cosmic 
rays, controls and dictates Venus, to offer the results of that Star 
lord which house it occupies and then to offer the results of the 
houses owned by that Star lord. Here, Venus is compelled. 
Venus has no power to deny but simply obey the dictates. That 
is, Venus though it centres his own house level, but offers 
predominantly the results according to the star deposit, meaning 
the Star lord where he is, as occupant and the houses owned by 
that Star lord. To repeat it again, Venus is under compulsion to 
offer a result during his Dasa by roping in, the results of the Star 
lord, which results will be good or harmful judged again from 
Lagna. As such, Venus in its Dasa cannot offer a favourable 
result of its 10th house on its own. 


Accordingly, star Krithika in Rishaba relates to Sun. He is 
Lord of Lagna that is 1st Bhava. Sun negates the 2nd house of 
Dhana, being 12th to 2nd. If Sun occupies 2-10 or 11 or 
deposited in the stars of lord of 2 or 10 or 11, then alone Venus 
can offer favourable results in terms of profession, profits and so 
on. To the contrary, if Sun occupies 5 or 8 or 12 or posited in 
the stars of 5 or 8 or 12, Venus being in 10th and as owner of 
10th will bestow a profession and also totally destroy through 
that profession. 


In the same manner, if Venus is deposited in Moon's star 
Rohini or Mar's star Mrgasira, the same as explained alone will 
come to effect, and such harmful results cannot be altered even 
In a small measure. 


Moon, Star lord of Rohini is lord of 121h to Simha lagna, 
thereby a Vryadhipathi. Unless, Moon occupies favourable 
houses 2-10-11 or in the stars of lords of 2-10-11, Moon will 
compel Venus to give the results of its 12th house, only to result 
in total destruction. 


Inthe same manner, Mars is star lord of Mrigasira. Mars is 
badhakadhipathi (lord of 9) for Simha lagna. Mars too, if he is an 
occupant of 5-8-1412 or in the stars of lords of 5-8-12, Venus will 
not only destroy the profession, but also cause danger to the 
very life. 


When Rishaba Rasi level matters as 10th house and 
relevant to Venus in the 10th in his own house, to foretell that 
Venus will give a very favourable profession with very good 
profits, whereby the Native will lead a prosperous life is net at all 
an intelligent approach to the predictive astrology is hereby well 
explained. 


On the predictive side, without making a deep analysis, 
expressing several views contrary to each other, has weakened 
astrology, a superb science, resulting in the spread of a false 
notion that Astrology is only superstition. 


6 


What is Astrology? 


Planets as they move on in the 12 houses of the Zodiac, 
over the track of the 27 stars, have a bearing on living and 
nonlivings existing on earlh. This bearing, the cosmic influence, 
good or bad, translated through a time frame, well analysed and 
well said, and well in advance is called Astrology. 


Our ancients like Siddhas and other class of intellectuals by 
their long range intuition, recorded their observations and made 
it known fo the benefit of the people. Following the footsteps of 
our ancients, the later days intellectuals, developed their finding 
and evolved different methods. During their days compared to 
the present day levels, the people had a single minded devotion 
to God, disciplined way of life, good character, a simple political 
atmosphere, and set of professions very limited to the 
population level based on Varnasrama. Therefore all their 
Astrological findings were also very much limited confined to 
certain approximate levels. On _ their findings, even the 
proportions of Dhruva Star, then and now, between Meena and 
Mesha Rasi, has very much altered. During their days a 
prediction made according to dasa-bukthi-anthara resulted at 
the very beginning of the Sookshama period. But the present 
day predictions result either during the middle or last stage of 
the Sookshama period. Ai times, the results are found spread 
over in the Dasabukihi itself. 


In contrast, the present day people, are not prepared to 
accept the very existence of God. The crisis of character is full 
in all its ugliness. The type of profession suited tc the matenal 
life, has increased manifold. Therefore, the present day 
astrology should have a definite say according to the enormous 


changes. Hence the tundamental rules of astrology, as handed 
over to us, has to be developed through constant research, well 
analysed, modified and applied in our predictions, will reveal the 
truth. Mere verses from the ancient texts, expressed by-heart, 
will not throw light on what is in store for us. As such, astrology 
falls inte disgrace. 


The Planets - How do they act? - Part I 


Of a birth according to birth time, according to longitude and 
latitude of a place, Lagna is formed. The lagna thus formed ts 
taken as first house, the other houses are calculated and the 
planetary positions are fixed in the Rasi chart. Then a prediction 
is made on the characteristics of the 12 houses and the planets 
connected with them. 


The 1st house tells about the Native himself, the 2nd house 
about his dhana, speech, family, 3rd house younger brother, 4th 
house about mother, education, vehicle, 5th house about 
children, 6th house about Debt, disease, 7th house life partner, 
8th, 9th and sc on. 


Here, we must bear one thing in mind. Thatis, Which house 
rises as Lagna, that house is known as the first house. From 
there only the other houses are counted as 2nd house. 3rd, 4th 
and so on. according to birth, any house can form as first house 
that is Lagna. The lagna so formed from there, the other houses 
follow as 2nd house, 3rd, 4th and .10 on. From this, what do we 
understand ?” A planet to any house it may be a owner, but while 
counting of houses 2,3,4 and so on, that planet is owner of 


which house, is known, and the results are predicted on the 
nature and characteristics of that house is very clear to us. 
I 

For example, for one born in Mesha Lagna, Rishaba Rasi 
will be the second house, Mithuna will be the third house. Of the 
same numerical count tor a Rishaba lagna Born, Mithuna Rasi 
will be the 2nd house, and Rishaba Rasi will be the first house. 
Therefore, it is now clear that all the 12 houses of the Zodiac 
depending on the lagna formed, in a routine way falls as 2nd, 
3rd, 4th house and so on, subjected to all the same levels of 
prediction. As it is even though the nature and characteristics of 
a house may vary, they will have to offer the results of the house 
counted numerically as 2,3,4 and so on. For example, Mesha is 
the first house of the Zodiac. But this Mesha Rasi, whatever 
may be its nature and characteristics, if Meena is the Lagna, 
then, Mesha gives the 2nd house results. If Rishaba is the 
lagna, the same Mesha will indicate the 12th house results. 


Every Rasi, each one of them has a different type of nature 
and characteristics, well defined and established, like odd, even, 
firey, earthy, airy and watery. Two legged, four legged, multi 
legged, human sign, animal sign, barren sign, cruel sign, dull 
natured sign, sathwa sign and so on. But all said about a Rast, 
when it comes as a second house It has to offer the results such 
as Dhana, speech, family, right eye and so on and if it happens 
to be 3rd house younger brother, short journey, neighbour and 
as 4th house Education, House, Vehicle, Mother and as 5th 
house Children, speculation etc. all these results are to be 
Invariably offerred. Therefore, each of the houses in their 
formation are subjected to all levels of results. That is, the 
nature and characteristic of a sign may vary, but the same signs 
counted in numerical order as 2nd, 3rd and so on and there will 


not be a single change when the same sign has to offer the 
results. From Lagna, if a sign is the 5th house and also dual 
sign - 5th house denoting children, birth of children may be 
'wins. If the same 5th house is a fiery sign, during pregnancy 
aborlion may take place. Therefore, the nature and 
characteristics of a sign may vary to give results according to 
the nature, but the respective houses counted in the numerical 
order if itis Sth or 6th or 7th this order will not change. There is 
nothing known as-- this is the 4th house or 5th house. It all 
depends on the count trom Lagna. 


For example, 10th house may be Makara or Kurnbha. 
Generally, we say regarding profession, it will be related to lron, 
Lecause of Saturn. Any house called as 10th house may give a 
profession related to Iron. Similarly, Makara-Kumbiiam may not 
give a profession related to tron. A profession relevant to 10th 
house contains 3 stars. tn which sta: this 10th house falls, and 
In that star in which subdivison of the 9 subdivisons of a star 
falls- that subdivision, tf tt falls in Saturn area, then it will be a 
profession connected to Iron, if it is Mercury it will be related to 
Press, if it is Venc2 - yarn, vehicle, textile etc., and so on. 
Therefore, all the houses, when counted as 10th from lagna, all 
levels of profession will be indicated. 


But the one we countas 10th from Lagna Is the house of 
profession, which is a constant factor. From Mesha to Meena 
any house may fall as 10th house, and this 10th house has to 
-Leak for one's profession. No change in this 10tn house level 
muntiers. From this tOth house, that is the house of profession, 
tfhich profession is indicated to the Native, is to be studied from 
one of the 3 stars contained in that house and again that one 
star subdivided into 9 parts or subdivision, that area of the 


aa 


subdivision allotted to a planet will offer that particular 
profession. That is, 10th house falls in a sign-star-sub. This sub 
decides and offers profession to the Native more precisely than 
the Star or Sign lord. 


For example, when Mesha Rasi falls as 10th house, in 
Bharani star 13°-25', it is on Venus star venus sub. the same 
10th house in Bharani star falls in 17° then it is in the sub area 
which belongs to Moon. !fin 18° , venus star then it is the sub 
area of Mars. If in the same Bharani star 23°, then it is in the 
sub area of Saturn. Thus the Bharani star from 13°-20' to 
26°-40', in it in which area the 10th house falls, that sub area 
alone sets the profession. 


As explained above when the 10th house falls in 
Mesha-Venus star- Venus sub area, depending on the nature ct 
Lagna lord the profession indicated will be four wheeler motors. 
hotel, cotton or yarn trade etc. 


Ifthe 10th sub area is Moon - Profession is set te deal in oil, 
ghee, petrol bunk etc. 


ifthe 10th sub area is Mars - Profession is set to Building 
construction, Engineering etc. 


Ifthe 10th sub area is Saturn - the Profession is set to, 
handle sales of once used iron or similar to it. Saturn indicates 
old materials, once used, second hand materials all related to 
iron. Therefore, any house that falls as 10th house as explained 
above, to the level of sub only, a profession will be set. 


11 


When all the houses are subjected to all levels of the 10th 
house matlers pertaining to profession one will be at a quess. 
That is the reason why, the Horary branch of Astrology came 
into existence. For this Horary, one has to spell out a numbe 
within 108. According to the number spelt out a lagna is formed. 
Taking that lagna as first house the other houses are formed. 
The natal chart has its lagna according to birth time. The Horary 
charl has its lagna on the bess of the number given. The Natal 
charl has all the houses 2,3.4 etc counted from lagna. The 
horary chart also has all the nouses 2,3,4 etc counted from 
Horary lagna. From the horary lagna the other houses 2nd, 3rd, 
Ath, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12h house are 
formed, as a natural sequence. Hence, the prediction made on 
the basis of a horary chart will be exactly similar to the 
prediction made on the basis of a Natal chart. For certain matter 
events compared to natal chart, prediction made with the help of 
a Horary chart, will be precise and exact. 


On the set up of the Houses, how the planets behave or act 
has to be explained. 


That is why as a forerunner, a small ettort was made to 
explain the different signs of the Zodiac of their nature and 
characteristics. 


A planet when stationed in any one of the 12 houses, must 
be posited in any one of the 2 1/4 stars only contained in that 
house. Thus the planet posited in a star, will first give the results 
of the house where this Star lord is posited and then the results 
of the house or houses owned by the said star lord. Now take 
the planet which under the sway of a Star Lord. This planet as 
said above will offer the results of the house where it Is 


12 


stationed in the third order. Then, this planet will offer the result 
of its own house in the fourth order, provided-no other planets 
occupy any one of the these stars of the said planet. This is 
explained by an example charl as below. 


Planets stellar wise: 


sun Anuradha 2 
Moon Revathy 4 
Mars Anuradha 4 
Mercury awathy 4 
Jupiter Swathy 2 
Venus Vishaka 2 
Saturn Dhanishta 3 
Rahu Anuradha 2 
Kethu Krithika 4 


In the Rasi chart as shown above, how the planets offer 
results is explained. 


In this chart Sun, Mars, Rahu all are in the star of Saturn, 
but in different padas. First, we will take Sun. How this planet 
Sun will offer results. Sun being in the star of Saturn, Sun has to 
offer the results of the houses 10 and 11. Saturn in the 11th and 
saturn is also the owner of 11th. If Saturn will be occupying 
some other house, say 5th, then Sun will have te give the result 
of the 5th house first, and then of the houses 10 and 11, in the 
second order. As in this chart, Saturn is in the 1ith, his own 
house itself, the first and second order of the results to be given 
will be 10 and 11 only. Then as Sun is statjoned in the 8th, 8th 
house result will be given. This is inthe 3rd order. Then, Sun will 
coffer his own house results, that is 5th (house). This will be in 
the 4th order. According to KP, We all know these are called 
Four fold Significators. Kethu is in the star of Sun. Therefore, 
sun will offer its own house result only as of the 4th order. If 
Kethu was not in the star of Sun or no planet is in the star cf 
sun, then Sun will offer the results in the second order. These 
Four fold order of giving resulis will take place during the 
dasa/bukthi of Sun. During Gochara/transit Sun will not give any 
result. [In Gochara, Sun will centre its 5th house position, and 
transiting in which star. Sun will offerthe results of that star lord 
where he is and his houses (that is not sun's house}. During 
Gochara, that is according to birth chart, when Sun is not 
running its Dasabukthi anthara in Gochara/ransit on a 
particular day if it is Krithika or Uthara Palguni or Uthirashada, 
that is Mcon transiting in any one ofthese 3 stars for the whole 
day. for that particular day alone, the 5th house is concentrated. 
On that day, Sun in which Star it is moving, that Star lord 
which house it occupies, the houses cr hcuse cf that star lord, 
results will be offered forthat particular day only. Next day, that 
is when the Star day changes, the Sun has no say anymore. 
Moon in which star itis moving that Star lord will act, as said 


14 


for Sun, for that particular day. This is exactly is the Daily 
transit (Gochara) results. 


We have to observe a little deep. As said above, for Sun in 
Gochara, Native at birth, when no planet occupies the stars of 
Sun, and Sun also doesnot run his Dasa/bhukthi/anthara, in 
Gochara (daily Moons transit), Moon transiting in Krithika, or 
Uthirapalguni or Uthirashada, Sun on that particular day only, 
that is throughout his star day only, at birth Sun in which star it 
was posited, that Star lord result alone will be offered for that 
particular day. The result so offered to the Native at birth is 
subjected to, that no planet should have occupied any of the 
3 stars of the Sun. 


As per the example chart of the above, when Sun does not 
run its Dasa/bhukthi/anthara, on a particular day- Uthirashada 
star day - operating from 6 AM to next day 6 AM - as Kethu is 
already in the star of Sun, Sun will concentrate and centre its 
own 5th house - on that day, Sun is moving in Revathi star - 
that is Gochara of Sun - Sun transit in Mercury (Revathy Star) - 
5th house denoting children and for Revathy-Mercury houses 
are 3-6. Therefore, on that day, the Native will Undertake a 
short journey, to arrange for an auspicious function of his 
children, or travel for some good purpose to his children, will be 
the result of that day. Because for Simha, the 5th house, 
Mercury is 2-11 houses. Atthe same time, for the Native as per 
birth chart, Mercury is 3-6. Therefore, for that one day only, 
results as said above will take place. If the Rasi lord is also 
favourable, the result of that day will also improve a little more. 


Inthe same way. as said for Sun, all planets offer results. 
Even when several planets are deposited in the same star and 


15 


also running its Dasa/bukth/anthara, during Gochara tat is 
transit, on behalf of Dasa/bukthi lords, as said above for Sun, 
daily results take place, so far as explained is for all planets and 
for all times, a standard and permanent phenomenon 
(occurrence). 


Next and the most important is- 
The Planetary aspects. Part | 


More than conjunctions of planets, the planetary aspects are 
more powerlul and dominating. Of the planetary aspects, 
aspects of saturn, Jupiter, Mars are very powerful, dominating 
and alse are capable to ictally change the very results good or 
bad to a lower or increased levels. Whereas the aspects from 
Moon-Venus-Mercury are only of a very ordinary nature, and 
can never form a powerful and dominating aspect like that of 
Mars-Saturn-Jupiter. 


Of the planets orbiting around the Sun, Mercury, Venus and 
Earth are the nearest to the Sun. Mocn orbits around the earth, 
and alongwith the earth orbits the Sun. But Mars, Jupiter, Saturn 
are orbiting the Sun but far away from the Sun. Hence, these 
three planets are known as outer planets. For example, one 
can easily notice the difference when a torch light is focussed to 
the sky and focussed on the earth. In the same way, Saturn, 
Mars, Jupiter can focuss their aspects only downwards. 
Accordingly, when their aspect is downwards and on other 
planets, the aspected planets lose their balance, gets a change 
thrust on it. But Mercury, Venus and Moon aspect amongst 
themselves, no doubt there will be a dominating effect, but the 
result will be a diluted one. Where as the outer planets 
Mars-Saturn-Jupiter, when they apect their inner planets like 


16 


Moon-Mercury-Venus, the Inner planets are subjected to the 
dictates of the outer planets. That is, the Inner planets can 
never have the outer planets under their dictates. That is why 
Moon-Mercury-Venus have the 7th aspect alone. The reason is 
when the Inner planets make the 7th aspect on the outer 
planets, the Outer planets also throw their 7th aspect. Hence, 
the outer planets are empowered with additional aspects. Mars 
in addition to the 7th gets the 4th and 8th aspect. Jupiter is 
empowered with 5th and 9th aspect. And Saturn in addition to 
the 7th gets the 3rd and 10th aspect. Accordingly of the aspects 
from outer planets, Saturn though connected to benefic houses, 
by its aspect, it will offer only harmful results. Jupiter though 
connected to harmful houses, by its aspect will offer only good 
and favourable results. Mars similar to Saturn can offer only 
unfavourable resulis by its aspect. For these reasons the 
Hlanets were called as natural benefics and natural malefics. 
Otherwise, when Jupiter is connected to harmful houses, durin 
its Dasa-bukthi, coffers more harmful results than Saturn. And 
saturn when connected to favourable houses, during its 
Dasa-bukthi, offers more favourable results than the benevolent 
Jupiter. What | have explained so tar will depend on the Lagna 
and other connected houses and for which matler to be 
analysed, based on star deposits, the planets are transformed to 
benetics and malefics. Therefore reckoned from Lagna, each 
and every planet on the strength of their star deposits, on the 
strength of the house they occupy, and when subjected to offer 
good or bad results, they get transformed either as benefics or 
maletics. Based on this study, a single planet or even more 
planets, can never be decided as totally a malefic or benefic. 
But when it comes to planetary aspects, Jupiter is always a 
mighty benevolent. And Saturn always a malefic. Similarly of 
other planets. 


1? 


For example - For Mesha Lagna, Mercury lord of 6th say- 
stationed in 6th. Saturn, lord cf 10-11 stationed in Dhanus 
aspects this Mercury by its 10th aspect, or stationed in Cancer 
aspects this Mercury by 3rd aspect, during Saturn Dasa 
Mercury bukthi or Mercury Dasa Saturn bukihi or Mars Dasa 
saturn buklhi, Mercury anthara this Native will face 
imprisonment or tace harassment in any manner from the 
Government. The same Mercury, if it had the aspect of Jupiter, 
inspite of Jupiter being a Vryadhipathi, situations — like 
imprisonment, harassment etc. can never happen. 


Therefore, in terms of planetary aspects, Jupiter, Venus, 
Moon and Mercury will always be known as benefics. Likewise 
Saturn, Mars, Sun will always be known as malefics in terms cf 
aspects. 


About Rahu/Kethu, details are explained seperately. 
similarly, aspect from Uranus is considered to be good whereas 
aspect from Neptune is considered to be harmful. But, Jupiter 
the mighty benefic, when reckoned from Lagna, if it is lord of 
houses 6-8-12 or deposited in the stars of lords 6-8-12, during 
that respective Dasa/bukihi, Jupiter loses its benefic qualities 
and offers only harmful results as a full fledged malefic. The 
same is true tor other benefics like waxing Moon, Venus and 
Mercury. 


But Saturn, Mars, Sun as we know of them as malefics, 
saturn except for Chara Rasi lagna borns - that is- Mesha - 
Karkata - Thula and Makara - in all other 8 lagna if stationed 
In 2-3-10-11 houses or deposited in the stars of lords of 
2-3-10-11 houses, and also running the respective Dasa/Oukthi, 
this Saturn is transformed as a benefic and offers unlimited 


16 


favourable results, which results even Jupiter as a benefic can 
never offer. To have such a favourble result from Saturn, 
Saturn should not have the aspect from Mars, Sun or Neptune. 
What is explained for Saturn as above, holds good for other 
malefics - Mars and Sun. 


Planetary Conjunctions - Part | 


Planets, more than one, stationed in a house, containing 
two and a quarter star, must be deposited each in a star or all in 
one star and so on. 


For example - Mesha lagna 6th house ts Kanya, wherein 
Venus, Mercury, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn the 5 planets are 
stationed. !n this Venus and Mercury are in the star of Sun. 
Saturn is deposited in the Star Hastha. and Mars and Jupiter 
are in the star Chithra, As such, for the Mesha Lagna, how the 
Planetary Gonjunctions in Kanya will offer results is explained 
hereunder. For Mesha lagna born having such a Planetary set 
up say during Venus Dasa, Sun bukthi, Jupiter anthara, Venus 
being lo;rd of 2-? deposited in the star of Sun who is lord of 5th, 
will offer a love marriage to certain age groups. For aged 
pecple the same planetary set up and Dasa/bukthi reduces the 
profit in a profession or keeps the profession running dull. For 
youngsters, who are not in the marriage age group, the same 
planetary positions, keeps them or pleasurable pursuits like 
going for a movie or a dance or or circus or music performance. 
Here, the role played by Venus is to increase the pleasurable 
pursuits In a general way. Sun being the bukthi lord in his own 
star signifying the Sth house predominantly, goes to the help of 
Venus- the Dasa lord to strengthen the matters. Jupiter the 
anthara lord, till his anthara period is over, will not be favourable 


19 


or supportive to the above said events but will prevent or delay 
every event. That is Jupiter spoils the good results and 
increases the harmful results, for the reason Jupiter is in the star 
of Mars, lord of 1 and 8 and Jupiter by himself is lord of 9 and 
12. Hence, the results offerred are not advantageous. 


inthe same manner, it itis Venus Dasa, Mars bukthi, Venus 
connected to 5th house, Mars connected to houses 1-8-6 
predominantly, the Native young or aged, will be forced to 
indulge in all sorts of bad habits lik drinks and gambling. Still 
youngsters will be spoiled in their education and make them to 
take up to bidi and cigarette butts. At this level, if anthara lord 
is good, the bad nature of the events will be less, and if the 
anthara lord is bad, the bad nature of the events will be more. 


Inthe same manner, if it is Venus Dasa, Saturn bukthi- 
saturn in the star of Hastha - i.e. Moon, lord of 4th - purchase 
af land or construction of house will be there, in the narme of 
his wife. And also in the name of his wife business ventures like 
trading in yarn, clothings etc. will take place. All these ventures 
will be brisk or dull depending on the strength of the anthara 
lord. 


lf all the planet in Kanya had they been in the star of 
oun-Uthira- then the Native will be an actor or leading in sports, 
ar one will be learning veda manthras When Mars bukthi is on, 
failures in the above said fields and also leading to all soris of 
vices. Ifitis Sun bukihi success in all matters. If it is Jupiter 
bukthi, the Native will go abroad and have success in all 
matters. lft is Saturn bukthi, success and failures will be equal. 


Similarly, if all the planets in Kanya - had they been in the 
star Hastha - the result will be of any one house pf a routine 
nature without any success or wihtout any failures, connected to 
professions like Hotel, Transport, Textiles etc. For youngsters, 
it will give the education. For middle aged, it will give 
professions as said above. For aged people, they will continue 
the same profession, maintaining the same levels of routines- 
that is they will not have a big rise or have a sudden fall. Their 
status will not be reduced. At the same time, the other family 
members of the house will blame the Native for one thing or the 
other daily. 


That is on Planetary Conjunctions, for a given lagna we 
should study whether the conjoined planets are empowered to 
offer favourable results or unfavourable results. This study is 
very important, whether the conjoined planets are benefic or 
malefic. According to the power they get, the conjoined planet 
be it a benefic will offer harmful results if it gets the power to do 
so. It itis a maletic, it is no wonder it will offer good results If it 
gets the power to do so. In terms of Planetary aspects alone 
benefics are benefics and malefics are malefics, when results 
are offered. But in planetary conjuctions and during dasa/bukthi, 
theyare not so. They offer the results good or bad according to 
Sstellarwise and subwise signilications. 


Even though several planets are deposited in a single star, 
these planets offer the results predominantly according to star 
deposit, but on behalf of their own house or houses. Similarly, in 
one house if planets are in different stars, then these planets 
offer the results predominantly according to star deposit 
involving their own house or houses. 


2 1 


The how of it is explained by an example chart. 


Birth 10.9.1923 


5.20 PM 
Venus Dasa balance 
1 ak 


Sun P.Palguni 3 Jupiter Vishaka 1 
Moon = P.Palguni 2 Venus  P.Palguni 2 
Mars ~~ P.Palguni 1 saturn  Chitrai 1 
MER ~~ Hastha 1 Rahu P.Palguni 2 


Kethu sathabisha 4 


In this chart 5 planets are stationed in the 7th house. The 5 
planets Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus and Rahu are deposited in 
Venus star - Poorva Paiguni. 


Therefore, all these 5 planets deposited in the star of Venus, 
will predominantly offer the results of houses 4-9-7. 


Here, Sun - is lord of the 7th house. 
Moon - is lord of 6th house. 
Mars - is lord of houses 3 and 10. 


Venus - 1s ford of houses 4 and 9. 


Rahu -is also lord of 7th because Rahu acts as agent for Sun. 
Now Venus dasa at birth - upte 12 years roughly. 


Then Sun dasa - 6 years 


Then Moon dasa- 10 years 
Then Mars dasa- . 7 years 
then Rahu dasa- 18 years 


Now we must analyse to find out what results would have 
taken place on the above dasa/bukthi. 


All the planets signify houses 4 and 9. 4th means lower 
level and 9th means higher level education. So the Native must 
have had a higher level education upto his youth age. But the 
Native could not continue his studies beyond SSLG. Even in 
goLG, his rank and merit was far below. 


The reason is due to Planetary Gonjunctions. 
Moon - lord of 6th. 

Mars - lord of 3rd. 

oun - lord of 7th 

Rahu - lord of 7th 

Venus alone lord of 4 and 9. 


Upto the end of Venus dasa, education was going good. 
During Sun dasa, the education touched only the SSLC level 
and came to a dead stop. 


a) 


Next the Moon dasa followed. Moon as lord of signifies 
houses 4 and 9. 4th house in addition to Education, tells about 
Mother, Vehicle, Land-Buildings, Bank deposits and so on. 


Planets are nine, but professions are so many, which are to 
be sorted out and allotted according to the nature of planets. 
Accordingly, here, Moon is in the star of Venus, who is lord of 
Ath and also the Vahana Karaka, which made the Native to join 
as an Officer, that is a paid job in a Motor Company. 


6ih house always tells only about the paid job in terms of 
profession. 


7th house tells about one's own independent business. As 
Moon is connected to 6-4-9, the Native had a paid job in the 
Motor Company. The Native entered into service during Moon 
dasa and had a smocth going till the end of flahu dasa. Till the 
end of Rahu dasa he had a name and fame, but without any rise 
In financial benefits. With the onset of Jupiter dasa, the Native 
resigned his job. From then onwards, the Native rose to a better 
position through his self efforl and through his children. 


From the above narration what is it we understand? Planets 
in conjunction, in which star they are deposited will offer the 
results of the house of that star lord, by involving/subjecting their 
own houses. Planetary conjunctions, for the sake of a mere 
conjunction dees not undergo any change. But in planetary 
aspects- a planet aspecting another planet, gives/offers a 
changed res lt, and the aspected planet undergoes a drastic 
change. 


24d 


Therefore, it is now very clear that conjunction of planets 
does not after in a big way of the results, but undergoes a 
drastic change during aspects. 


Further, planets as they near the Sun, is cormmonly known 
and called as Asthanga (Eclipsed) carries no truth. Similarly, 
planets conjoined with Sun at a stipulated distance carries 
Asthanga dosha is also not correct. Because planets have to 
orbit through a given path. Planet Mercury can move away from 
the Sun between 16 to 20° only and crossing this limit Mercury 
gets retrograde. This being the routine and a natural trend there 
ig no meaning in saying Asthanga dosha. 


Planets in Retrogression -What results do they offer? 
- Part | 


Every planet, as an entity, has a house or houses of its own. 
A birth, of the 12 houses, which Rasi falls as Lagna that is taken 
as first house, the other houses follow as 2.3.4 and so on in an 
order. For example, take a Rishaba lagna. Mercury is lord of 
end and Sth house. When Mercury gets retrograde how the 
results will be is explained as below. MER - P.badira 2 


Lagna 


ne 
: ZZ 


23 


When Sun is in 333°-00, Mercury cannot cross beyond 
348°-00 roughly upto 15°. That is Mercury will reach 15° and 
roughly reach a maximum of 19°. Beyond this it gets retrograde. 
In case Mercury is to orbit as it likes, then the entire world will be 
destroyed. The same holds true tor Venus, Mars, Jupiter and 
saturn. Outer planets Jupiter and Saturn when they transit in the 
9th house from Sun gets retrograde. Again they become direct 
as they are in the 5th house from Sun. 


On 29-1-93 Jupiter was in Kanya in 171°-01'. At that time, 
Sun was in Makara in 285°-25'. That is Kanya is 9th from 
Makara. Similarly Jupiter in retrograde motion in kanya in 
161°-05', gets direct on 1-6-93, which means Jupiter was in 
Retrogression for 122 days. As such, when Jupiter became 
direct on 1-6-93, Sun was in Rishaba in 16°-51'. That is Jupiter 
in Kanya is 5th from the Sun - at Rishaba. This is how planets 
like Mars, Jupiter and Saturn gets retrograde and gets direct 
approximately. But Mercury and Venus are not so. When 
Mercury in its transit is away at 16° to 20° trom Sun, and Venus 
in its transit is away at 27° to 30° from Sun, they become 
retrograde. In the same way, they get direct. All said are 
approximate measures. Measures expressed from 1° to 3°, the 
difierences are contrary (opposed in nature or tendency). 


aun, Moon, are always on direct motion. Never retrograde. 


Moon revolves round the earth. When earlh revolves round 
the Sun, Moon also alongwith earlh revolves round the Sun, and 
never revolves independently like other planets. For this 
reasons, Moon never gets retrograde, 


26 


aun at the centre of the solar family never revolves. Like 
other stars, Sun is also a Baby star. A tew degrees of, to and 
tro, wobbling type of movement is seen. 


Nothing more than that; Sun does not orbit around anything 
else. Earth trom Sun crosses from Sign to Sign. Earth while 
moving from Sign to sign, orbits the Sun also. During the month 
of Chaithra/Mesha, earth rotates round the Sun reckoned from 
0° Mesha(i.e April 14th fo May 14th). Next appreximately from 
May 14th to June 14th, earth orbits the Sun reckoned from (0° 
Rishaba. Likewise, all the 12 rasis from Mesha to Meena is 
covered by earth's rotation around the Sun starting from 
Chaithra to Palguna month, touching again the 0° in Mesha. At 
the same time, it is incorrect to say that Sun moves in each Rasi 
in a month. It is the earth that orbits the Sun through all the 12 
rasis. It is for our convenience, a mathematical calculation, 
translated and said to the common man that Sun transits from 
sign to sign. 


Next, Rahu and Kethu are ever retrograde. Never direct. 
Hence, no change for Rahu-Kethu. Thertore, the 5 planets 
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn alone gets 
retrograde. 


These 5 planets, when retrograde what results they will 
offer?- Do they change from their levels, do they offer 
favourable results, do they give an unfavourable result, or till 
they become direct are they paralysed? Itis explained as belaw- 


Please see the example chart mentioned in the earlier 
pages. Lagna is HAishaba - Mercury is in Kumba tks 


af 


Poorvabadhra 2nd pada. When Mercury gets retrograde, whal 
result it will offer is explained as below- 


For Rishaba lagna, Mercury is always a lord of 2 and 5 
meaning Mercury is a Vryadhipathi for houses 3 and 6, This is a 
permanent factor. In the same way, Mercury in «umba and in 
Jupiter star will always signify houses 8 and 11 of Jupiter. 
Mercury empowered to operate & and 11, becomes a 
Vryadhipathi to houses 9 and 12. So much so, during Mercury 
dasa or bukihi or anthara, when Mercury gets retrograde, 
Mercury destined as a Vryadhipathi for houses 3 and 6, totally 
changes in retrogression, and offers the results of houses 3 and 
6. Similarly, Mercury posited in the star of Jupiter being a 
Vryadhipathi to houses 9 and 12, and this same Mercury when 
retrograde is totally changed and offers the results of houses 9 
and 12 and not 8 and 11. Next, if the Mercury dasa or bLathi or 
anthara period is not running, during which time on the day to 
day planetary routines, on a Wednesday or Mercury signs 
(Mithuna-Kanya} or on Mercury stars, and so on, on such days 
results offered will be as explained above. At such levels, if 
Mercury comes about as dasa lord or bukthi lord the result 
offered will be very much more. /f Mercury is anthara lord, that Is 
running his anthara period, he will offer results on behalf of 
bukthi lord and or connected to its level. 


similarly, when dasa-bukthi-anthara of Mercury is not 
running, during the daily planetary situations where Mercury is 
related, or Mercury stars are of the day the result offered by 
retrograde Mercury will be very much more. At other levels, that 
is when retrograde Mercury is not related, to our reading the 
result offered will be very much less. 


2G 


To tell it very clearly, any planet when retrograde if already a 
Vryadhipathi to such of those houses, that house results will 
fake place during retrogression. This is the real truth about a 
planet in retrogression. Other than this to predict that maletics or 
benefics when retrograde do gocd or bad is totally wrong. 


As already explained a planet in retrogression, having 
Vryathipathis, for the Native, that is for Rishaba lagna 
depending on whether they are benefics or malefics in the 
sense they offer favourable or untavourable results, accordingly 
result is to be read from the planets in retrogession. Similarly, 
for all the 12 lagna boms, planets Saturn, Mars, Jupiter, 
Mercury, Venus during retrogression, the results they offer is to 
be understood and read as explained above. 


Next, Mercury had it not been deposited in the star 
Poorvabadhra, Mercury as lord of 2 and 5 for Rishaba lagna, 
that is Mercury a vryadchipathi for houses 3 and 6, the Native at 
birlh having Mercury in the star of lord of the 3rd house, that is 
in the star of Moon, houses 2,3 and 4 all of them undergoes a 
change, and no good results will take place till mercury 
becomes direct. Houses 2 and 5 also loses its strength and 
offers a result which is not to our expectations. In the same way, 
results for houses 3 and 4 also will not be as predicted by us. 
Sum totally a confused atmosphere is experienced. This type of 
result will not be experienced by all but only by a few. During 
such circumstances alone, that is during such period a planet is 
in retrogression, any fruitful result will be spoiled, only worries. 
no happy atmosphere, material loss, disturbed atmosphere in 
the family, dullness in profession and so on will prevail. So to 
say, there will be a litle change inthe result that we expect. 


29 


Again these changed results can take place depending on the 
powers they have for that lagna. Similar will be the results of 
other planets when they are retrograde. 


Planets - How do they act ? - Part Il 


A planet moving in a star is under the sway of the lord of 
that star. Therefore, the planet predominantly will offer the 
results of the house which the star lord occupies in addition to 
the house owned by the star lord. Then, the planet neveriheless, 
offers the results of the house it occupies and the house or 
houses it owns. The star lord and the planet together indicate 
an event to be favourable or unfavourable or both. The example 
chart, hereunder explains how the planet acts. For a Native of 
Mesha lagna, Venus is lord of 2 and 7. When Venus dasa is 
on, we say marriage will take place. Dasa lord Venus Is in 
Vrischika in the star of Jyeshta which is ruled by Mercury. Now. 
how Venus will function or how it will act is to be seen. 


Lagna 


MER 


. enus is in the star of Jyeshta. Venus dasa Venus bukthi is on. 


As such What are the functions of Venus ” 


ad 


Venus is in Jyeshta star belonging te Mercury who is lord 
of 3 and 6. Venus Dasa Venus bukthi is running. Venus is under 
the sway of Mercury, which means Venus was, is and will be 
under the bombardments of cosmic rays emitted from Mercury. 
To say It, again - Venus is under the control of Mercury. Venus 
is compelled by Mercury to give the result of the house No.5 as 
Mercury is occupying the 5th house, then houses 3 and 6 - as 
Mercury Is lord of 3 and 6. Therefore, Venus will predominantly 
offer the results of houses 5-3-6. Under such circumstances, 
what are the consequences of results, under the dictates of 
Mercury during this current Venus Dasa - Venus bukthi. 


Venus as lord of 2 and 7, Venus will first involve himself to 
create the marriage scene, and indulge to complete the wedlock 
matter through a love aifair under the dictates of Mercury- lord 
of 3 and 6, but occupying the 5th house. That is Mercury 
compels Venus- lord of 2 and 7 to operate the Sth house 
matters first, through love = affairs, an enticement by 
Mercury, made on the Native, through Venus, to make it a love 
marriage, on its first command. After some time, Mercury as lord 
of 6 will compel Venus to offer the 6th house result, on its 
second order, to separate the couples and set the stage leading 
to divorce. 


Here, several matters are in built. But according to the event 
matter, only the house results are offered. summing up, Venus 
lord of 2 and 7 is inthe 8th. Mercury lord of 3 and 6 Is in 5th.As 
such Venus is connected to offer the results of houses 
8-2-7-5-6-3. That is Venus will predominantly offer the results of 
houses 5-6-3 and then the results of its houses 2 and 7 and also 


31 


the 8th house. For the relevant matter, marriage, houses 2 and 
7 are the permanent residence to Venus, and Venus as 
occupant of 8th house, 8th house is a temporary residence. 
5-6-3 houses are compelling houses, as Venus is on the 
Mercury star. Therefore, when Venus dasa/Venus bukthi is on, 
Venus will first evoke the result of its own houses 2 and 7/7. The 
favourable or unfavourable results will be made felt according to 
the dictates of the star lord. That is Venus whether he improves 
his own houses 2 and 7 or destroys them, also depends on the 
dictates of the star lord - Mercury. 


olmilarly, Venus whether he operates his 2nd house or 8th 
house as occupant, Venus will insert houses 5-3-6 under the 
dictates of Mercury and accordingly to the blend, results will be 
experienced. Say Venus Dasa - Mars bukthi, Mars Is lord of 1 
and 8. Venus is already occupant of 8th. Therefore, 8th house is 
energised to unfold several matters like accidents, material 
losses, to indulge in robbery and so on in the company of bukthi 
lord Mars, and Mars occupant of which house and in whose star 
this Mars is deposited, is brought into picture like suicide, 
accident, indulgence in robbery, or other harmful acts are 
projected. But which of these undesirable results will untold, by 
Mars is determined by Venus as Venus has to link 
predominantly the houses 3 and 6, Venus being under the sway 
of Mercury. Thus Venus finalises the matter event dictated by 
Mercury though projected through Mars. 


If it is indulgence in robbery as 3-6-5 will operate for a 
cerlain time, he will be a free bird, Bbutfinally he will be caught. 


Ifit is suicide, and if committed, he will escape. 


32 


Itit is accident, he will have serious injuries but will recover 
later on. ‘ 


What explained above is the same fer all planets while 
giving the results. That is a planet moving in a star 
predominantly offers the result cfthe house occupied by the star 
lord and its houses. Then, the planet in question offers the result 
of the house It occupies and its own house. These planets as 
explained above which are Under the contrel of a_ star, 
accommodates the bukthi lord adjusted to its signification to a 
particular matter under analysis, but vAthout fall inserting the 
results of the houses, as the said planet was Under the sway cf 
a Panicular star. This is how a planet acts without a deviation. 
This is the Real act of all planets. 


From Mesha to Meena, as the Heal Act of Planet will be 
in the same manner as explained above. For each house 
matter, each planet while moving in the 12 houses and 27 
stars, their act or functional behaviour will be as explained 
above and never contrary to it. For the reasons of ownership or 
exaltation the planets never alter against the set rules, and 
give a favourable result. Simuerly for the reasons of ownership 
and debilitation can give adverse results. A planet As Is Where- 
if it be a owner or in exaltation can at the most will activate or 
hasten a result, but the result by itself to be offered will never be 
altered from one level to another just for the reason the planet is 
exalted cr owning a house. 


To make it more clear, when a planet establishes a set of 
results by its stellar level, to offer adverse results, by its naving 
the ownership and being in exaltation, cannot take away the 
adverse result meant to punish, and never-never it can offer 


ag 


any favourable results. The planet when set to offer adverse 
results, having the ownership and exaltation status the planet 
will hasten or activate the adverse results to be offered, but will 
never give a contrary result against the stellar level results set 
by itself. 


In the same way, Planets in debilitation, having a set of 
results to be offered at the stellar level to offer advantageous 
results, will act in slow speed, but will never alter and give 
contrary results - that is disadvantageous results. 


Ownership exaltation or debilitation of Planets are generally 
known responsible to indicate the strength or weakness of a 
human body constitution from head to foot, but does not take 
the responsibility to alter the results to be offered, say good to 
bad or bad to good. 


Planets as they move in certain stars either they are less 
bright or more bright due to some reasons unknown to us. When 
the planets are dull bright cosmic rays from the stars on the 
planet is less. Likewise when the planet is bright it means the 
cosmic rays from the stars on the planet is more. This 
occurrence is on account of the distance between the Sun and 
the Planets and also of certain Signs (Hasi} in which the 
planets move. This dull/sright phenomenon contains several 
secrets. 


When a planet is inthe exact degree of debilitation, and ifa 
child is born, the part cf the body related to the planet, causes 
weakness, less strength or not proportionate and so on. This is 
due to the planet is debilitated, the cosmic rays from the stars 
on that planet and in turn reaching the earlh is so less, it 


34 


deprives the required oxygen to that part of the body. Stmilat'y, 
when a planet is in the exact degree of exaltation and If a child 
is born, the part 3f the body related to the planet is strong, 
proportior “and so on. 


To say of exaltation, ownership or debilitation, simply on the 
entering of a Rasi (Sign) is not correct. In a sign, in a particular 
star, in a particular degree-minute only, as the planet moves 
should be reckoned for exaltation or debilitation. Without giving 
due consideration but simply expressing in a blanket manner, 
that Jupiter is exalted in Karkata wherever it is in Cancer is 
totally wrong. 


Approximate levels of Exaltation of Planets. 


1} Sun - Mesha Rasi - Exalted in Aswini Slar 3rd Pada 
Le in Mars sign 10° 


2) Moon - Rishaba Rasi - Exalted in Krithika star- 
end padai.e. in Taurus sign 3°. 


3) Mars - Makara Rasi - Exalted in its own star 
Dhanishta 2nd pada i.e.Capricorn sign 28° 


4) Mercury - Kanya Rasi - Exalted in Hastha star-2nd pada 
Le.in ¥irgo sign 15° 


5) Jupiter - Karkata Rasi - Exalted in Pushya star #st .pade 
l.e.in Cancer sign 5° 


6) Venus - Meena Rasi -Exalted in Revathy star 4th pada 
L.eé. in Pisces sign 27° 


7) Saturn - 


Thula rasi - Exalted in Vishaka star 1stpada 
i.e. in Libra sign 20° 


Approximate levels of Debilitation of planets 


1) Sun - 


2) Moon - 


3) Mars - 


4) Mercury - 


5} Jupiter - 


6) Venus - 


7) Saturn - 


Thuia Rasi - Debilitated in Swathy star 
2nd pada i.e. in Libra sign 40° 


Vrischika Rasi - Debilitated in Vishaka star 
4th padai.e. in Scorpio sign 3° 


Karkata Rasi - Debilitated in Aslesha star 
4th pada i.e. in Cancer sign 28° 


Meena Rasi - Debilitated in Uthirabadhra star 
Ath pada in Pisces sign 15° 


Makara Rasi * Debilitated in Uthirashada star 
3rd pada i.e. in Capricorn sign 5° 


Kanya Rasi - Debilitated in Chitra star 2nd pada 
le. in Virgo sign 27° 


Mesha Rasi - Debilitated in Bharani star 
3rd pada i.e. in Aries sign 20° 


From this it will be clear that planets in a particular sign, 
and in a= particular pada alone should be considered as 
exalted or debilitated, and to speak of exaltation or Debilitation 
other than the said pada will not be correct.Planets moving in 
a star, gets its exaltation level 50 minutes before approaching 
the stipulated degree level to exhibit a brilliant light and again 
attains the normal original brightness 50 minutes after leaving 
before the same stipulated degree levels. 


56 


In the same way debilitation needs to be understood. To 
repeat, a planet moving in a sign if it is its exaltation house, one 
should not be Blind to say that planet is exalted. Similarly 
debilitation. That is a planet is exalted at a particular degree 
level only, and that planet is moving in it exaltation sign are two 
different things. Such observations contrary to the real, not only 
of exaltation - debilitation, but several other matters in astrology 
only makes this Astro science a sick one. No doctor can cure 
such sicknesses. A deep search and to arrive at the truth alone 
can cure this malady. 


An example char which speaks of Debilitation relevant to 
marriage is and the malady therein is explained as under- 


Birth star - Arudhra Hahu dasa balance at birth 3-1C-4 
As Venus is in Kanya it is said to be Neecha- Debilitated. Venus 
is Kanya is in Hastha 2nd pada. 


Venus gets debilitated only in chithra 2nd pada. The Native 
of this chart is employed in State Bank for the last 25 years and 


+s Mow the Manager. Venus, lord of 4 and 9 and as said if really 
debilitated Venus as lord of 4th would have affected matters like 
education. land, house, mother etc. and as lord of 9 would have 
affected matters like Father, higher education, ancestral 
properties etc. Not a single observation relevant to debilitated 
Venus was correct. His parents lived a long life, had higher 
education, possesses his own bungalow. in addition to ancestral 
properties. 2 sons are studying B.E. 


Now for the sc called debilitated Venus. when my 
interpretation for debilitation if applied, 4-9 parls of the body 
must have been aflected. That is hearl, lap, eyes etc must have 
been affected. This person had a sound health in all respects. 
Therefore. what do we understand from this. That ts Venus is 
not really debilitated, is clearly understood. Therefore by wrong 
observation or interpretation it is the general public who are very 
much aflected. 


The public approaches an astrologer for matrimonial 
matters. Qn both sides (boy/girl) everylhing has been 
satistactory and if the astrologer says the horoscopes agree well 
they wish to finalise the negotiation. Now the Devil in the 
astrologer gives a blanket reading. Lord of 7th is Neecha. This 
lord of 7th is in the Neecha sign but not debilitated. Then lord cf 
Sth- for life and Mangalya in the Neecha sign but not debilitated. 
Again lord of Sth in the Neecha sign but not debilitated. 
Henceforth, both the charls are declared unfit for marriage. 
Result is, a would be happy married life, is simply ruined. 
Likewise in matrimonial matters, not one but several wrong 
interpretations spoil the very matching of hcrescopes in cne 
stroke, While matching of horoscopes, if it is to be rejected, 
reasons for rejection are not proper: =xplained. blindly, going 


by Panchanga available rules are not sufficient, that is 
incomplete. 


Mars Dosha 


say for Rajju, it holds a bundle of confusion. In the same 
thread - does not match. But at the same time, both for bey and 
girl stars Rohini, Arudhra, Pushya, Maka, Hastha, Sravana are 
same, it is agreeable, and reckoned as excellent. Further for 
stars Mrigasra, Maka, Swathi and Anuradha, matching of 
horoscopes is not at all required. Gne sloka says - 


If Rasi lords are same, if the Rasi lords are friends, or 7th to 
7th is a Samasapthama Rasi, the Rajju, Rasi etc doshas are 
cleared and the marriage can be conducted. 


Ekathipathya, Maithreva, Samasapthama Evacha 
Rajju, Kanal, rasi dosha navithyathe - 
so says the Sloka. 


When there are 3 different views for one single analysis, 
which one, are we to follow ? 


still further from the Girl's star- boy’s star is counted, 
arriving at certain number of stars to tally and others to be 
rejected. When we count the stars from Girl to Boy, what is that 
we are supposed to expect, what minutes do they held are not 
at all explained. So much so, all said above availed from the 
Panchanga is totally insufficient. 


Nowhere from the ancient texts and established theory his 
been handed over to us. 


lf one wishes to know the result of a marriage event 
following the ancient texts and a marriage held contrary to the 
texts, both levels only on time te analyse is and properly 
recorded one can get at the truth. 


fn this book, detaiis of certain charts are explained as | am 
of the view that there is a scope to get the truth. 


Further Mars Dosha, Dasa Sandhi are applied while 
matching of horoscopes. Rhymes and reasons are far from 
clear. 


For example, if we take Mars Dosha, 3 levels of dosha are 
observed. 

1. From Lagna - Mars in 2-4-7-8-12 houses - Dosha 25% 

2. From Moon - Mars in 2-4-7-8-12 houses - Dosha Full. 

3. From Venus - Mars in 2-4-7-8-12 houses - Dosha 50% 


Generally, Mars dosha is reckoned from Lagna to the 
houses 2-4-7-8-12. Few reckon from Moon. And to reckon from 
Venus Is rare. 


What a few texts has to say about Mars dosha are detailed 
as below. 

1. Mars alongwith Moon - No stars dosha. 

2. Mars stationed in his own house or in the houses where 
he is exalted or debilitated - No Mars dosha. 

3. Mars stationed in watery signs - Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces - No Mars dosha. 

4. Mars when aspected by Saturn or joined with Saturn - 
No Mars dosha. 


5. Mars in the 8th house if Dhanus or Meena - No Mars dosha. 


40 


G. Man stationed in Kumbha or Simha - No Mars dosha. 

7. Mars stationed in a Rasi reckoned as Mars dosha - but the 
Rasi lord if abenefic and also with strength - No Mars dosha. 

8. Mars occupying benelic houses in Navamsa, and alongwith 
Rahu or Kethu in the Navamsa, and Mars having Saturn 
and or Jupiter - No Mars dosha, 

9. Mars with Jupiter - No Mars dosha. 

10. For boy's crossing the age 30 and for girls crossing the 
age 24 - No Mars dosha. 

11. Afew texts says that there is no Mars dosha in this 


Kaliyuga. 


Thus, it will be seen Mars presents no dosha in the 7 
houses - i.e. Mesha - Karkata.- Simha + Vrishchika - Kumbha - 
Makara and Meena. !n the remaining 5 houses if Mars is 
subjected .to Jupiter - Saturn aspect or alliance, Rahu/Kethu 
aspect or alliance, and owner of the house, where Mars is 
stationed is a benefic, the position of Mars at the Navamsa 
level- Mars carries no dosha. Thus again Mars having crossed 
the set barriers, still a little left over dosha he wishes to ofter on 
the remaining 5 houses, means, a very rare thing to come 
through. 


And yet some other texts not taking into account of what all 
said above, through a poem says - In a blatant tone. 


“opeecn - four-seven-second to seventh /twice fhe six, Mars 

Stored in Bridegroom and io himt Mars stationed clearly- the 
made 

wife dies, Damsel for whorn Mars so stands Lucky 

husband dies on earth and so a widow" 


41 


We find one text saying how all a Mars dosha is not to be 
predicted and another iext simply says without any clarification, 
that for a boy or girl if Mars stationed tn 2-4-7-8-12, the husband 
or wife will die. Under such circumstances one is baffled as to 
which of the rules to be applied. How to arrive ai a concrete 
result, while matching of horoscopes. Naturally, each one wilt 
have their own say according to their whims and fancies, and 
due to this it is the general public pushed to run from pillar to 
posi. 


Down below two charts of a boy and girl are furnished which 
has varying position of Mars, but married and till today leading a 
harmonious and happy life. Natives of both the charts are 
related to me. Around marriage time the two charts were 
referred to a leading asirologer for matching. 


Year - Akshaya 


Yaishaka 1st (Month) 
Star Mrigasira 
Mars balance 3-10-2 


Then the astrologer pointed out that Mars dosha in the Girls 
chart is full from Moon. And in the boy's charl there is no dosha. 
stating the horoscopes do not match, and hence the alliance wil! 
not be congenial, | came to Know about this and | gave a 


42 


GIAL 
Year - Yuva 


Karthika 6th (Month) 
Star Hastha 
Moon balance 8-39-16 


convincing, argument and saw to it, that the marriage takes 
place. The boy is a Ph.D. He has 3 sons and one daughter. 
They are now well setiled in the States. Had | not interfered, the 
marriage might not have taken place. 


In several Ways a prediction is given which has neither 
clarity nor a systematic approach etc. Finally it is the public who 
suffer. 


Therefore, | have no option lefi, but to say | wish to throw 
my weight along with those who are capable of creating a 
methodical approach. 


On a thorough analysis of a horoscope, of all the 12 houses 
levels, generally we observe that a marital status can be 
weakened or cause to separate, only by two houses that has 
malefic influences and they are the 6 and 12 houses. Inthe girl's 
chart, lord of 7 should not be in any way connected to 6-12 
houses of the boy's chart. Similarly, in a boy's chart, the lord of 
? should not be in any way connected to 6-12 houses of the 


43 


girl's chart. Such an analysis made carefully verifying the 612 
houses, and added to it the other important analysis like 
longevity, children, health etc, while matching of horoscopes will 
certainly offer a happy wedlock to the couples. There Is no 
doubt about tt. 


On a second level analysis, in a girl's chart, lord of 7, other 
than 6 and 12 in a boy's char stationed in 2-3-5-7-10 or 11, 
other routine matching points positive or negative, alongwith 
Mars in varying position to cause Mars dosha, the presence of 
Dasa Sandhi, all these will never foretell an unhappy marital life. 
To the contrary, lord of 7 of the boy’s chart connected to 6-12 of 
the girls charl, and similarly lord of 7 of the girl's chart 
connected to 6-12 of the boy’s chart, even if all other routine 
matching points are positive, with a No Mars dosha, Dasa 
Sandhi etc that married life will be a hell on earth. 


The charts at the very birth when observed as explained 
above, except Sun and Moon, other planets each of therm owns 
two houses. Therefore, according to Lagna lord of 5 owning 6, 
lord of 6 owning 7 lord of 3 owning 12 also will be the set up of 
the charts. That is lord of 7 will have to be stationed as 
explained above, in cne cf the harmful houses. Here, our 
observation for a critical analysis will be limited, only to see, that 
lord of 6 when he is also lord of 7, he should not be stationed in 
6th but occupy 7. Likewise everything should be understood. 
That is without occupying the negating houses, planet lord of 7 if 
posited in the stars of the occupants or owners of the desirable 
houses will also be a correct way to judge. 


Take for example, a Cancer lagna born, regarding marriage. 
How the planetary positions particularly lord of 7th should be to 


44 


our expeciation. Lord of 7th of a girl's chart should occupy in the 
boy's chart in Makara, the 7th nouse, or Simha the 2nd house or 
Meshna, the 10th house, or Rishaba, 11th house, and if itis 3-42 of 
Mercury it should be in Kanya, the 3rd house. At the same 
time, this lord of 7 should not be stationed tn Dhanus, the 6th 
house or tn Mithuna, the 12th house. 


Another way to judge - Lord of 7th of the Girl's chart, it will 
be in order if it ts posited in the stars of houses 2-3-10-5-7-141. 
For example, for Cancer lagna, Mercury ts the owner of houses 3- 
12. Aslesha - Jyeshta - Revathy are Mercury stars. Aslesha 
covers Cancer - Moon sign. Jyeshta covers Vrischika - Mars 
sign. Revathy covers Meena - Jupiter sign. Moon lord of the 
lagna - Cancer. Mars owner of 5-10 and Jupiter owner of 6-9. 
Therefore as Jupiter is lord of 6, girl's chart lord of 7 should not 
be deposited in Revathy star, but it may be deposited in Jyeshta 
or Aslesha in Cancer born boy's chart. Likewise girl's chart 
levels should be ascertained. | repeat again to explain the 
above- that is when we say that the lord of 7ih of the Girl's chart 
should occupy 2-3-5-70-7-17 house in the boy's chart, each of 
the house lords 2-3-5-10-7-11 have 3 stars set in a irigonal 
arrangement, in different houses. Therefore, relevant to 
marriage matters we should take care to observe, that the /th 
lord of the girl's chart should not occupy stars of houses in the 
boy's chart, which houses are detrimental to marriage matters. 
Therefore we should reject such house stars in the boy's chart, 
and look for other house, star areas, favourable to marriage 
matters. 


This truth will be very clear when we study the charts of boy 
and girl woose married life are harmonious and such of the 
couple whose married life are not at all happy. 


45 


lf a planet has to offer the results of its own house or houses 
in full measure, first it should not be under the control of ancther 
planet Le. no planet should be in any one of the three stars of 
the said planet. And then the said planet should be deposited in 
its own Sub of the 9 subdivisions of the star where it is moving. 
For example, the three stars of Venus are Bharani, 
Poorvapalghuni, and Poorvashada. Whatever may be the star it 
has 9 subdivisions as detailed below 


VENUS 


Bharani-Poorvapalghuni-Pooryvashad Min Sec Deg Min Sec 


(9 subdivisions) 


1. First subdivision belongs to Venus 133 20 2 3 20 
2. Second subdivision belongs to Sun 40 00 0 40 00 
3. Third subdivision belongs te Moon 66 40 1! 06 AQ 
4, Fourth subdivision belongs te Mars 46 40 0 AB AD 
5. Fifth subdivision belongsto Rahu 120 00 2 O00 00 
6 Sixth subdivision belongs to Jupiter 106 40 1 46 40 
? Seventh subdivision belongs to Sat 126 40 2 06 Ap 
&. Eighth subdivision belongs to MER 113 20 1 53 20 
9 Ninth subdivision belongs to Kethu 46 40 0 46 40 


Total 800 =600 13 20 00 


The 27 stars each of them has a span cf 800 minutes or 
13°20’ The subdivisions shown as above, containing 800 


46 


minutes or 13°20' is a constant for each of the 27 stars, divided 
in proportion to the Dasa/bukthi of each planet. 


Any planet, be it for any lagna, if it has to offer the results of 
the house it occupies and the houses # owns, then it must be 
deposited in any one ot its three stars, and in its own subdivision 
out of the 9 subdivision. Then only the said planet will come irito 
picture to offer the results in full measure depending on hew it is 
conditioned by its own sub, which has the say, favourable or 
unfavourable, advantageous or disadvantageous. Yes or No. 


As an example, for a Kumbha lagna, Jupiter is lord of 2 and 
11. If Jupiter has to offer the resuts of his own houses 2 and 11 
in full measure, then Jupiter must be deposited in any one of his 
own 3 stars P.vasu or Vishaka or P.badhra and added te it, it is 
a must and should, that he will also be deposited in his own sub, 
arising out of the 9 subdivisions. Thus, Jupiter's deposition may 
be in any one of the #2 houses. The results are the house which 
it occupies, alongwith the houses 2-11 of which he is the owner. 
The house occupied by Jupiter, if it is not an evil one, then the 
results of the house he occupied is offered alongwith houses 2 
and 11 in a magnificent way. For example, Vishaka star is in 
Vrischika. It is 4th pada. But its own sub, that is Jupiter sub 
remains in Thula. Therefore, Jupiter instead of offering a result 
in full measure, it will offer only a middle level result. How is it? 
Jupiter is the occupant of Vrischika. Lord of Vrischika is Mars 
who is lord of 3 and 10. Therefore, Jupiter will give the results of 
3rd house or 10th house depending on where the 10th cusp 
falls. Accordingly a profession or some of the several other 
matters of the 10th house will be centered, to coordinate with 
bukthi lord levels, and through inserling his 2 and 11 houses, 
this middle level results are offered. 


47 


similarly, if you find Jupiter as an occupant in Mithuna sign 
posited in his own area of 106 minutes 40 seconds (20° to 
20°-46'-00"), Jupiter being in his own star is also found to be in 
his own subdivision out of the 9 subdrtvisions..” When alone, 
Jupiter will offer the full results of his houses 2 and 11 in a Tull 
measure. How Jupiter operates? Mercury, Lord of Mithuna and 
Kanya is lord of 5 and 8 to Kumbha lagna. Here Jupiter 
occupies the 5th house Mithuna and moves in his own star and 
sub and not at all connected to 8th. As an occupant of the 5th 
house, Jupiter will offer the 5th house matters ie. 5th house 
denotes children, philosophy, speculation, arts, gambling, love 
affairs, pleasurable pursuits, protit to the opponent etc., linking it 
according to the origin of 10th cusp. Where from, Jupiter 
decides which of the results said above are to be offered, by 
inserting his 2 and 11 houses predominantly, Jupiter offers such 
a final result which will be useful, favourable and a happy one. 


Further, for Kumbha lagna as 2nd house one of the 
Marakasthana, depending on the origin of 10th house cuspal 
star and sub, will push the father of the Native to death, as 10th 
being a marakasthana to father. The 2nd house of the Kumbha 
Native being 6th to the father and according the origin of 10th 
house, Jupiter if it is posited in one of the 9 subdivisions, that 
one subdivision happens to be the Sun sub, then Jupiter will 
inflict death to the father. Likewise, for all the 12 lagnas, the 9 
planets, if they are to offer the results of the houses owned by 
them, then it will be according to the nature of those houses, the 
potency of the planet (Karakathva), the origin of each of the 12 
cuspal position, good and or bad resut!s will be offered. 


Still further what is said above is explained more clearly, as 
you next read the nature of signs - as follows. 


48 


What are the powers of signs 7? 

The Zodiac has 12 houses. Each house is of 30°. Therefore, 
the Zodiac contains 360° which is always a constant. But each 
house when known as a Bhava, is not exactly 30°. It may be a 
little less or more depending on where the cusp falls. 
Sometimes in one house, 2 Bhavas will arise, on account of 
which the next Bhava will fall in the next to next house, 
according to the birth time. 


For example, according to one's birth time, Lagna Bhava 
arises in 2 9°-13' in Simha, the third bhava will be found in 
Vrischika instead of Thula. As we look at it, in the traditional way 
Vrischika is the fourth house. The same is explained by an 
example chart. 


Ix 0,21 6 
VIii 29.49 ¥ 29.49 Mi 28.55 


: “_ ; 
— 13 
VI 828. 45, 


¥ 28,55 iV 29.49 Hi 20.49 
i O.21 


A Native . bom at a particular time, of a_ particular 
longitude-latitude, the lagna cusp arises in Simha 29°-t3". From 
the example chart, you will find 3rd Bhava falls in 4th house. 
Similarly, 9th bhava falls inthe 10th house, Venus is lord of 3rd 
house. Mars is lord of 4th house. Mercury ts lord of 2nd house. 
Therefore, even though general reading will be that all the 2nd 


49 


house matters are subjected to Mercury, the 3rd house Thula 
rasi owned.by Venus will be under the 2nd house fold. Hence all 
the 2nd house matters are governed by both Mercury and 
Venus. Similarly, the 3rd house matters are governed by Mars 
lord of 4th house. As both the 3rd house cusp and the 4th house 
cusp falls in Vrischika, mars governs both the 3rd and 4th house 
mallers. 


lf a lagna in a house falls 1° to 4° or 28° to 29°-30', 
accordingly the other Bhava cusps instead of arising in their own 
house, gets drifted to the next, next houses. When a lagna 
Bhava cusp arises in the middle of a house, only then, the other 
Bhava cusp also will arise in their own respective houses. 


When Bhava cusps fall drifted, according to that level 
planetary positions should be analysed, alongwith cusp to cusp 
levels. When a lagna cusp approximately do not arise in the 
middle of a house but rises in the beginnning or end of a house, 
almost in all cases, we find 2nd Bhava drifted to the 3rd sign 
and the 8th Bhava shifted to the Sth sign. Not only the 2nd 
bhava but all other bhavas also get moved. The above said is 
explained by an example chart. 


¥21.05 | VI1.57 ViT 0.00 
VIIE 28.52 


v2902 O02 


w2g.o1 | 128.52 XII 4.57 XI 21.05 
10.00 


In this chart the Lagna bhava cusp rises in 0°.00' in 
Vrischika. The 2nd Bhava cusp also falls in Vrischika. The 4th 
Bhava falls in Makara the 3rd sign, having ne Bhava cusp in the 
Ath sign, but the 5th bhava falls in the 5tl house(sign). Likewise, 
in Gancer the 9th house the 1Cth bhava falls. As it is, for a 
Native born both Sun and Moon will have control over the 10th 
bhava. Butin general, our observation is, a reading will be made 
for a Vrischika lagna, considering Cancer as the 9th house, 
Simha as the 10th house, and Mithuna as the 8th house. This is 
totally wrong. Such a reading weakens the Astroscience making 
it offer results which will not be correct. Therefore we should 
strive to analyse only from Bhava levels and arrive at correct 
results. 


For example, a Native born similar to this birlh chart, Mars 
dasa Mercury bukthi is current, the traditional way of analysis, a 
general and blanket revelation will be that Mars lord of 1 and 6, 
Mercury lord of 8-11, and taking into account the houses they 
occupy, Mars 1-6 will result in disease, debts, and Mercury 8-11 
will result in accidents, loss of properly and so on. But in reality. 
Mars lord of the ist Bhava is also the lord of 2nd bhava. 
Mercury has no cbnnection in any manner to the 8th house but 
has the power to operate 9-11 houses. On this observation we 
should foretell no debts will occur, but a small health problem 
will be there. This 9th house will give certain changes in the 
existing profession, which will be also a profitable one also on 
account of Mercury cperating the 11th house also. Furlher our 
prediction should be centered on the stars through which 
Mars/Mercury will give the results. A general reading falling back 
on traditional method, will be an exercise in futile. 


Sl 


To repeat again, only when a lagna cusp falls in the middle 
of a house say 10° -20°, the other Bhava cusps also fall exactly 
in their respective houses. When a lagna cusp rising in the very 
beginning or at ihe very end of a house, then the other bhavas 
drift and tall in the next-next houses. If one bears this in mind, 
and probes for the results, the Astroscience will be in high 
esteem. Contrary to Bhava, but sticking on to mere house (sign) 
level readings, weakens the noble science. Because a 
numerical count from lagna the houses as 
|-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12, can never be cbserved as Bhavas. 
such a numerical count can occur ony when the lagna bhava 
sets in the middle of a house. Lagna bhava falling either at the 
beginning or at the end of a house will result in other Bhavas to 
drift, and the houses, otherwise the bhavas will be changed, 
differing signwise, and numerical orderwise. Analysis made 
through house positions in the numerical order cerlainly cannot 
be called as Astrology. Keeping in mind this anomaly, to a 
maximum extent, predictions not made but results read by each 
and everyone's whims and fancies supported by attractive 
slokas or poems will not serve the very purpose. Our forefathers 
knew that the slokas were not meant for a superficial probe at 
the house level but Bhava level only. The slokas/poems should 
be subjected to the bhava level. When the bhava levels are 
properly probed and then the slokas applied to guide, results will 
emerge very correctly. Down below a poem is quoted. In most 
cases, the inner meaning of the poem is left high and dry but 
applied at house (sign) level and not at the Bhava level.’ 


"gee Giri and fourth 
he, Giri, Four and Trikona reaching Giri 
Education improves abundantly." 


For all practical purposes, the poem is very true. But it Is 
applied in ignorance. The meaning is, if 4th lord be @ ruler or 
stationed in the 9th or lagna then only a higher education is 
indicated. 


In just 4 lines, a poem cannot elaborate so much deeper 
thinking. Then how to understand the real meaning of the 
poem’? It is our responsibility to get at the inner truth. When the 
poem says "See Girl and fourth" - it means the astrologer should 
first ascertain the different levels of the 4th lord and then foretell. 
That is, whether the 4th lord is posited in the stars of the 4th 
lord, and then whether the said truly 4th house, is truly a 4th, 
Bhavawise or some other planets are deposited in the stars of 
4th lord. Planets other than the 4th occupying the 4th house and 
posited in the stars, not detrimental to the 4th, but advantageous 
to the 4th house should be carefully studied. This careful 
analysis is exactly the meaning conveyed in the poem. 
Therefore, if one handles the analysis according to the inner 
meaning of the poem, any event matter can be foretold, 
accurately and exceliently, 


LAGNA (Ascendant) - KP explains 


Next an Ascendant, a lagna rises, according to time of birth 
of a particular longitude and latitude. This lagna may be any one 
from Mesha to Meena. Every sign contains 36°. This lagna may 
rise any where within this 30° from 0°-00' to 30°-00'. The lagna 
rising within the 0° OO'- 30°-00' contains 2 14 stars, and this 
21/4 stars total span is also 30°. Therefore of a sign in the 
zodiac comprising 0°-00° te 30°-00' is the total span of 30° of 
the 2 1/4 stars. From this, readers will be able to understand 
how the luminous band of stars with a total span of 30° in each 


sign of Zodiac from Mesha to Meena is called the galaxy or 
Milky way. Take for example, Mesha rasi. It has Aswini, Bharani, 
Krithika 1/4. Aswini and Bharani are full stars. Krithika 
one-fourth of it comes under Mesha Rasi. 


Aswinl Star 13°-20' 
Bharan: star 13°-20' 
Krithika star 1/4 3°-20' 

Toial 300-00' 


Therefore from O°- 30° goes to make the Mesha rasi. 
similarly, all the 12 houses, each having 30°, makes the 360° 
Zodiac. But every sign will not have in the beginning 2 full and 
1/4 star. Instead, it will be 1/4,1/2,3/4 parts, to make a total of 2 
1/4 stars in each sign. 


Thus, each sign containing 2 1/4 stars of 30°, a Native born at 
a particular time, the lagna may rise anywhere within this 
range of 0° to 30”. In if each star has a span of 43°-20' or 
800 minutes, which is divided into 9 parts. Each part, according 
to each planet, will claim certain area in minutes, as per 
Vimshothari Dasa. This area planetwise claimed, relates to the 
star lord, to help in delineating the maiter event to be offered 
by that star lord, who decides the event to be favourable of 
unfavourable. Each owner of the 9 subdivided parts while 
offering a favourable or adverse result, has ito be accepted 
unconditionally. It cannot be denied, as there is no alternative. 
Because every event taking place on earih, one single planet 
can never enact the event, wheiher if is a small or a big eveni. 
These big or small events are enacted by 6 persons, that is 6 
planets having 6 type of characteristic, with a united force. 


54 


These 6 planets divide themselves into 2 groups - each group 
made of 3 planeis. That is, the first group of 3 planets will 
declare, that a particular event alone must take place . Then 
the second group of 3 planets will act and complete itnat maiter 
event. Which event at what level has to take place has already 
been decided & declared by the first group of 3 planets as 
prevailing upon the Lagna bhava to 12th bhava. The timing of 
event will be decided and declared by the Dasa/bukthVanthara 
lords. As to what ts declared, the first group of 3 planets will 
indicate that an event should take place on a particular day. The 
second group of 3 planet will act and complete the event. As 
the results are of decisive nature, the Sub lords of a tar-or stars 
at their levels, when projected through the-Star lords, the 
results beneficial or adverse Will have to be accepted and gone 
through. 


In order to have a clear understanding without a doubt, the 
above said are explained with examples. 


What is meant by 9 Sub lords, is nothing but the 
subdivision of 800 minutes of a star, and each Sub lord bears 
the space-time character of the respeciive planets, who when 
taking part in .an event to take place gives desirable or 
undesirable results has been already explained as above. 


For example, according to a Native birth chart, one is 
destined to die by an accident through vehicle, how such a level 
of the event takes place is explained, through an example 
chart. 


55 


ViIL3.15 


Simha lagna. 8th bhava is In the 8th house in 3° 15° in 
Meena rasi, Jupiter star and in the 9 subdivisions of the Jupiter 
star, on the 9th subdivision which belongs to Rahu, in that area 
the 8th Bhava ls formed. The 8th bhava is on the star of Jupiter, 
lord of 8th and Jupiter is also stationed inthe 8th. That Is, of 
the 12 lagnas, lagna rising In any house, the 8th bhava talling 
onthe star of the lord of 8th (that is 8th bhava cusp) formed on 
the star of the 8th lord itself and of the 9 subdivisions, - one 
subdivision is subjected to Maraka-bhadaka houses, then during 
the Dasa of lord of 1 and 8 accidents will take place without fail. 


As such in this example chart, 8th cusp falls on the star 
Poorvabadhra, lord of 8th and in the last subdivision of 
Poorvabadhra, which is Rahu. Jupiter is in the 8th. Lord of the 
Sth subdivision is Rahu, and Aahu is stationed inthe 9th. As 
Sth house is badhakasthanafor Simha lagna, an accident will 
occur during Jupiter Dasa Rahu bukthi or Rahu dasa Jupiter 
bukthi. This Native is sure to encounter an accident, and 
Whether he will die or escape death depends on the lagna 


56 


Bhava cuspal levels. During the lagna lord- Sun dasa also, in 
Jupiter bukthi, Rahu anthara or Rahu bukthi, Jupiter anthara 
accident will take place. 


Accidents happen on a particular day, hour and,during afew 
minutes and such accidents do not occur daily, or till the end of 
a dasa-bukthi-anthara. As explained, that when an accident 
occur during a particular month-day hour-and minutes, either 
Venus or the siguificatoers to the time of event will have 
connection to the 4th house, and if subjected to 8th house the 
accident will be due to vehicle, if Sun due to electric currents, it 
Moon due to water, if Mars due to explosives, fire, if Mercury 
due to high speed wind-cyclone, if Jupiter due to falling of a 
heavy material on the head or body, if Saturn due to iron, 
rotten materials or poisonous insects mixed with food ttermns, if 
Rahu due to poison, if Kethu poison and atlack by animals. All 
these type of accidents explained are according to the planets, 
their characteristic nature, or the planets posited in the star of 
planets responsible to cause accidents. Under such 
circumstances, an accident to occur, has to be operated 
together by 6 planets. 


How an event matler takes place exactly as indicated were 
explained in the previous pages and again repeated as below- 


About Accident - 6 persons 


1.in a Natves’chart, whether one is destined to have an 
accident is indicated by the 8th bhava. How to find out this 
indication? 8th bhava-cuspal Sub lord is to be seen. Planets 
in the stars of the planet occupying the 8th or in the stars of the 
owner. ofthe 8th and again in the sub of the 8th t.e.cuspal sub 


“Vv 


lord connected to badhakasthana, that is planet occupying 
the badhakasthana or owner cf the badhakasthana, it means 
an accident Is indicated to occur without fail. 


2. Accident, the event matter is already a decided and fixed 
one at the very birth of a Native. If this accident event matter 
has to be operated, planets responsible should run the dasa 
bukthi. That is lagna lord, or lord of 8th or lord of either Maraka 
or Badhaka one amongst them should run the dasa. Next, one 
amongst them should run the bukthi. When the dasa bukthi Is 
on, during the little interval period, the matter- accident to take 
place reaches the confirmation level. But dasa will run tor 
several years. In that, bukthi will run for several years or 
months. Now this dasa Bukthi lords will be subjected to carry the 
orders of the 8th bhava levels. Having received the orders, the 
Dasanatha passes it on to the bukthi lord who passes it on to 
the anthara lord. In turn, the anthara lord furlher moves ti to his 
lower level lords, to fix the. responsibility to the final stage of 
action. Now, who are the lower level lords of the anthara lord? 
The lower level lord is none else but the Sookshama lord. That 
is star is divided into 9 subs. Then, one sub of the 9, which is 
again divided. into 9 paris or divisions, that division - or part is 
known as sub-sub. This sub sub lord is the Sookshama lord. 
This Sookshama lord is one who will be waiting very near to the 
final stage of action. The Sookshama lord Is allotted afew days 
with powers to operate the matter event. Sookshama lord under 
him has 6 persons. These 6 persons conduct the accident. 
When we read carefully one by one cogently, then alone we can 
understand clearly. 


Thatis in one's fife every event that passes by, takes place 
as explained above which are the basics. The method of 


58 


operation cf an event is not limited to a single person but the 
whele population undergoes the process of events through well 
defined fundamentals. 


1. According to one's birth time, as to how the 12 cusps 
are sel, these 1 to 12 houses of the Zodiac predetermine 
every matter, every event for all the living beings on earth be it 
good or harmful. This is similar to a Ration office in a ration card 
allots to every person Rice, Kerosene, Sugar etc. according to 
a quota. In the same way, the houses 1 to 12 determines every 
good and bad thrdugh their respective bhava cuspal position. 
That is 1st house matters according to lagna bhava cuspal 
position, 2nd house matters according to 2nd bhava cuspal 
position, 3rd house matters according to 3rd bhava cuspal 
position and so on, all the 12 house matters are determined by 
the 12 cuspal positions of the zodiac. The results arriving out of 
the 1 to 12 cuspal positions, predestines every thing. This is a 
constant and a permanent frame. No planet can alter or modify 
this permanent set up. The planet may be exalted, may be 
strong, may form several yogas and still what exactly the cuspal 
positions has to offer will be given in full. No one can change 
these results even in asmall measure, nor can anyone create a 
result. 


2. The predetermined matters of the 12 cuspal positions are 
executed by Dasa bukthi lords through their subordinate level 
planets to offer the exact quantum of the results, be it good or 
bad. This is precisely the very secret of Astroscience. 


To say it more clearly, the example can be said of an Office 
administration. An Office administration runs on a set pattern, 
well organised. In the same way, the 9 planets act well 


organised as per the cosmic order. For example, an [.A.S. 
officer issues an order, no one can deny or disobey that order. 
Likewise, the 12 houses have 12 cuspal IAS officers. These 12 
IAS Officers at the very birth of an individual has declared the 
orders of their respective houses. That is 1st house matters by 
the 1stbhava, 2nd house matters through 2nd bhava and so on, 
set well in advance, in an order for all the 12 bhavas. Please 
imagine the IAS officer to a house and the level of matters of 
that house have to be declared by the bhava cuspal position. 
Next imagine the dasa lord as the subordinate officer of cuspal 
IAS Officer. The order issued by the IAS Officer is executed by 
ADO, Thasildar, Ai and Village Officer one after the other 
downwards. In the same way the dasa lord, hands over the 
orders of the bhava vu... lord to his next bukthi lord. Bukthi 
lord passes the order to anthara lord and anthara lord passes 
the order to Scokshama lord. This Sookshama lord under hirn 
has 6 people to operate the order. These 6 people operate the 
order- say an accident- will operate the order to the utmost 
precision. Who are these 6 people? A day when ft is bern, is 
born along with 3 other people. That is, a day is bom". It will have 
a rasi. In that rasi, one star will emerge. That is Day lord, Rasi 
lord, Star lord - So three persons appear on a day. In this the 
rasi lord will cover 2 days, a litlle this way or that way, The day 
lord changes every day - Star lord also changes every day but 
he too will cover 2 days along with 2 day lords. Therefore, when 
a day commences, day lord - rasi lord - star lord are the 3 
person who conjointly rule the day or come united very close to 
operate a matter event. Thus an event to take place on a 
particular day is kept ready, by the 3 persons day - rasi - star 
lords who make all the arrangements. The next 3 persons will 
complete the operation of an event matter. Who are these next 
3 persons? They are - one amongst them is the lagna, rising 


when the event matter takes place. A lagna runs roughly for 2 
hours in a Rasi. That lagna, to move from Rasi to-Rasi has 2 1/4 
stars. That lagna tn a star moves for about 52 minutes. In that 
star, containing 9 divisions or 9 subs, in each sub, lagna moves 
roughly for about 5 3/4 minutes. Even this 5 4/4 minutes is 
subjected for 9 divisions. But roughly within this 5 3/4 minutes 
only as the lagna moves, the said event, say accident takes 
place. 


For example, an event to take place, the lagna sign be 
taken as Cancer. Lagna in Cancer will move roughly for 2 hours. 
In this, P.Vasu 1/4 part, Pushya 4 paris and Aslesha 4 parts are 
found. Pushya and Aslesha are full stars. P.Vasu alone has 14 
part. Thus 2 14 stars are found in Cancer. Here, the lagna lord 
Moon alone will head the event - say accident. That is why 
Gancer as lagna was selected for the event matter to be 
completed - say accident. Next, one amongst the star lords 
PVasu, Pushya and Aslesha alone will have the power to 
operate the event. Let us imagine that Pushya star he= the 
power to operate the event accident. Lagna takes roughly &2 
minutes to transit the Pushya star. In the whole of S2 minutes no 
accident takes place, but accident occurs *.ily within a few 
minutes. Therefore as lagna moves in °ushya star, which 
comprises 9 divisions, of which one division lord - sub lord alone 
having 5 3/4 minutes, operates the event-accident to take place. 
Therefore, these are the 3 persons who conjointly operate to 
finish the event say accident, to take place with utmost accuracy 
and precision. 


That is a Lagna - lord 
Lagna Star - lord The three persons. 
One subdivision 


of the 9 divistons - one -called Sub lord, 


Hence, a person if he ts to meet with an accident all the 
above said levels are to be set. 


1. 8th bhava cuspal level determines an accident, through 
the star related to the 8th house, and one subdivision of that star 
which ts related or connected to Maraka/Badhaka division, that 
accident to take place is confirmed. 


2. Accordingly, the Dasa lord whose dasa is on sets the 
stage for accident. 


1. Bukthi lord in turn in accordance with Dasa lord decides 
the nature of the accident, and in what manner it should happen, 
waits for the Anthara lord who is suited to operate the accident. 
As the Anithara lord comes into picture, the Dasa/bukihi lords 
hands over the modus operandi of the accident to the next 
stage. 


2. Anthara lord passes on the order along with the modus 
operandi of the accident to Sookshama lord, who has anly a 
very short duration under its cammand. When a person is 
destined for a tragic death through accident, this sookshama 
lord selects a day. On that day, Sookshama lord sees ito it, that 
the vehicle (Bus) starts and also sets the atmasphere for 
accident- say by speed, or brake failure or signal- in which 
atmosphere- the person destined to die and the Bus are brought 
very close to the tragic scene and kept ready. 


5. The Lagna lord, while he is on the move by himself (that 
is one of the Ruling Planets}, the bus and the person destined to 
dié, both are approaching the tragic area. When Lagna is 
transiting in a particular star, the bus and the person are brought 
still closer in the tragic arena. Now when the same Lagna is 
transiting the most sensitive print, that is in one division of the 9 
division, of that star- that is subdivision, that is sub lord whe ts 
authorised to make the accident, the Bus over runs on the 
person, resulting in the fatal accident. 


6. Thus, at last, the fatal accident was accomplished by the 
selected 6 persons. They are- 


The day when accident took place - Day lord 1 


The day - a Rasi (Sign} - Rasi lord 2 
The day's star in the Rasi - Rasi star lord 3 
Lagna rising at the time of the accident - 

Lagna lord A 
Lagna rising in a star - Lagna star lord 5 
One division |.e. Subdivision of the 
9 divisions of that star - lagna sub lord 6 


Therefore, as explained, the above 6 persons selected, are to 
execute the fatal accident. 


Therefore, every matter or event, that takes place in a 
Native's lite, be it good or bad, occurs according te the birth 
time, the Lagna rising at that time with the 12 Bhavas in total, 
their nature, their characteristics so set that cannct be altered. 
The 12 bhava cuspal level matters are taken up for execution by 
Dasa/bukthi lords, their subordinates + Anthara-Sookshama 
lords and sc cn, to offer several results be it good or bad. This is 
the FUNDAMENTAL AXIS of a birth chart. 


63 


Even though two persons are born on the same lagna - and 
same star, yet we find the lives of these two persons vary to a 
great extent. This is because, the same lagna and same star fell 
on 2 different subdivisions of that same star, which subdivision 
lord who is known as the sub lord is the root cause for a 
different walk of life of the 2 said persons. 


The above said is explained here by an example - a real 
event narrated by Guruji Sri. KSK. A cloth shop owner was 
eagerly expecting some sales since right from the morning. No 
sales at all till 3 o'clock in the afternoon between 3 PM and 
3.30PM. A marriage pary entered the shop and made 
burchases for Rs. 5000/ and above. The shop owner was 
happy. 


Gin that day, Moon transiting the same Rasi, the same star, 
why there was no sales till 3 PM. What was the reason for a 
good sales between 3 PM and 3.30 PM. Here, we should think 
loud. That is, the day's star though it was favourable to the shop 
owner, the star lord alone, single handed could not give a 
favourable and happy sales. The Moon in that - no doubt the 
favourable star - but when it transited one favourable division 
out of the nine divisions of that Star alone. ie. Sub lord, gave 
the happy results. At that time, Lagna transit was alse moving in 
one of the favourable subs. Similarly, transit in Badhaka lords 
divisions together with lagna transit in badhaka divisions give a 
heavy loss or return of stocks or some other undesirable results. 
Therefore, no planet individually has the power-to operate a 
mater. A group of 5 planets alone can act. That is five heavenly 
bodies. This is known as PANCHANGA. 


en ec 


. the human race ,each one according to his/her birth time, 
the position of the Lagna bhava cusp level predestines about 
one's way of life, good or bad, status, marriage, children, 
enormous wealth or beggar and so on. This lagna bhava cuspal 
level up to the 12th bhava cuspal level tells decisively what is in 
store for a Native. 


For each one at birth, the 12 bhava cusp levels, establishes 
certain fundamentals v/hich are constant. For example, take the 
2nd bhava- Dhanasthana - The 2nd bhava cuspal position tells 
whether one will earn enormous wealth, or earn to a middle 
level or earn a low level income. Gn the said example, imagine 
for a while, 3 different vessels - one a mug - second a 5 litre 
small bucket and the third one a barrel (of 200 litres). It the 2nd 
house cuspal positions is connected to 5-8-12 house, the Native 
ig not given any one of the 3 vessels. It connected to 5-8-12 
houses alongwith houses 2-11 the Native at bethael be given a 
Mug (500 ml}. Without any connection to 5-612 houses but 
signifying 2-10-11 houses the Native at birth will be given a 
bucket (5 litres). Further, no connections at ail to 5-8-12 and 
connected to houses 2-6-10-11 the Native at birth is given the 
barrel. (200 litres) 


Here, no vessel given to the Native at birth should be 
understcod to the level of a beggar. One who is born with a Mug 
should be understood that the Native will be above poverty line. 
One who is born with a bucket should be understood that the 
Native will have above middle level profits. And one who is born 
with a barrel should be understood that the Native will earn 
enormous wealth. 


Therefore No Vessel level, Mug level, Bucket level, Barrel 
level. 


These 4 different levels are formed according to birth time - 
the Lagna rising at that time - and depending on the 2nd house 
cuspal level a Native’s monetary levels are fixed. 


The 4 different levels of people according to the 2nd house 
cuspal position, gets their vessels filled up during their 
Dasa/bukihi periods. But the Native's chart relating to Mug level, 
having exalted planet or houses owned, that Native will never 
get anything more than the Mug. At the same time, a Native 
relating to barrel level, even though the planet to offer wealth 
gets Neecha i.e. debilitated, that planet will fill up the barrel and 
will never reduce anything. This is because of the foregone 
decision of the Dhana bhava- the 2nd house cuspal position. 
Planets empowered to bestow richness during their Dasa/oukthi 
periods on account of their strength cannot increase or cannot 
reduce because they are weak, but has to offer the results as 
per the dictates of the 2nd house cuspal position. All planets or 
any planet can move only in one star at birth. The stars 
continuously emit gigantic cosmic rays. As such, a star has no 
exaltation, debilitation and so on. Planets moving through stars 
are under the control of respective stars. Hence, they have no 
powers of their own to enhance or reduce the results. As in a 
Ration card Sugar 2 kgs, Kerosene 1 Itrthe quota allotted, at the 
ration shop, the person who supplies, be he lean or fat, cannet 
increase or reduce the quota allotted in the ration card. 
almilarly, the Dhana bhava cuspal position what it has written 
cannot be altered by planets due to their exaltation or 
debilitation or ownership and so on. What’ is meant by 
exaltation, debilitation or ownership is at certain times the 


planets are very bright or very dull during their transits. A child ai 
the ttme of birth receives the cosmic rays through planets, tf they 
are debilitated ine flow of cosmic rays will be less and if they are 
exalted the flow of cosmic rays will be more. On account of this, 
the body parts may be strong or weak. Except this, the cnild at 
its birth will enjoy or suffer as per the dictates of the 12 Bhava 
cuspal pasitians and the planets strong ar weak cannot enhance 
or decrease the level of results. 


All said and done, if one wishes everything to happen as 
explained in the above pages, the birth time has to be very 
accurate. The longitude and latitude also will have to be very 
accurate. Then, all our calculations wil! have to be very accurate 
from lagna bhaya to the 12th bhava. Then only, the results will 
also be true and very accurate. To the contrary if birth details 
are incorrect, not a single prediction will come correct. As the 
birth time details, most of them are Tull of mistakes, Horary a 
branch of Astralogy was evolved by our ancient seers. In 
erecting 4 horary chart, the time taken for calculation has no 
chance to go wrong. \YVhai all said above in the pages before fo 
this will speak minutely in a pinpointed manner through Horary 
charts. Much about Horary ts explained separately in the coming 
pages. During a difficult delivery or cissareari, chances are more 
In recording a wrong birth time. Further, the birth tme is noted 
when the child is fully separated from the mother. Even this is 
not correct. That ts the cosmic rays through planets reaching 
earth is only through Oxygen and it ts this oxygen that reaches 
the lungs of the child. Immediately the heart vibrates, to make 
the first cry of the child. From this very moment dasa/bukth 
starts to act. Af the time of delivery, when the head emerges 
which we call Siras Udhayam, oxygen enters through nostrils 
and the heart beat commences. Therefore, at Siras Udhayam 


G7 


the birth time should be noted and there is no need to wait for 
the time the full child is separated from mother as explained, If 
birth times are noted, our calculations to fix the lagna will be 
very correct. We see from newspapers thai ina single delivery 
mother gives birlh to twins or triplets or even 4 babies. We wiil 
take into consideration only twin births. The rasis are sare, the 
star is also the same, but born in a tew minutes difference, one 
is a male, another is a female, one is good to look at whereas 
the other is not, one is strong and the other is weak. Therefore, 
It one thinks seriously of these differences in a twin birth, as 
explained in the previous pages, the changes within this 5 3/4 
minutes, and this 5 3/4 minutes made to 9 divisions - the 
changes within this one division roughly of 3/4 minutes- will all 
be correct.and we are also able to understand clearly. 


Next, we should know about the aspect by the rasis alse. 


The! «| Chara rasis aspect the 17th rast. 
Sthira rasi aspect the 9th rasi and Ubaya rasi aspect the 7th 
rasi. 


Thus, the lord of the aspecting rasi are badakadhipathi to 
wi@ aspected rasi and give harmful results. Hence 113th house to 
Chara rasi, 9th house to sthira rasi and 7th house to Ubhaya 
rasi are badakasthana. Such badakasthana lords inflict death, or 
make one te commit suicide, or give a short lite, or are capable 
of doing several harmful acts. Sometimes in a smal way 
according to their position they do good also. 


Therefore the levels of rasis, they are empowered to offer 
what results have all been explained clearly. Further, When we 
explain Horary matters the levels of rasis will be further, 


explained a little more. Afler studying all house levels only 
predictions should be offered. Without any deep study, with a 
mere rasi chart to tell predictions, how far it will prove correct. Alt 
these points are to be thought of seriously. 


Planetary aspects- Part Il 


Planetary aspects- 


Moving along the Zodiac, planets as to how they are 
stationed, and aspecting each other what changes they undergo 
is explained. To begin with Sun, next is Mercury. Next to 
Mercury is Venus. Then Earth. Alongwith it is Moon. Next to 
Earth is Mars. Nexl to Mars is Jupiter. Next to Jupiter is Saturn 
and afler Saturn are Uranus, Neptune and pluto all moving 
around the Sun in their own Orbits. 


Here next to Earth, Mars, Jupiter-Saturn-Uranus, Neptune, 
Pluto are known as outer planets. Moon alongwith Earth, Venus 
and Mercury which are below the Earth are known as Inner 
planets. 


With regard to Uranus-Neptune-Pluto, about their aspects 
so far nothing has been recorded. Predictions are made, judged 
according to the houses they occupy. 


The three outer planets Mars-Jupiter-Satum by their aspects 
bring about changes, In a Native's birlh char, Saturn and Mars 
might be in a position to give favourable results. But by their 
aspect over other planets, the aspected planets lose their 
identity, and are under the control of Saturn or Mars. Here, what 
happens Is the aspected planets supposed to give a favourable 
result is prevented to give that favourable result. Similarly the 
aspected planets supposed to give adverse results are made to 
increase the adverse results. 


But Jupiter, according to a Native's birlh chart supposed to 
give harmful result, yet by its aspect over other planets, that 
aspected planet if it is to give adverse results, it is held under 
control to reduce the adverse results, Similarly, if the aspected 
planet is to give favourable results that aspected Planet is made 
to increase the favourable results. This is the nature of Jupiter. 


saturn throws its aspect to 3 ana 1U houses. Mars aspect 
houses 4 and 8. And Jupiter has aspects to houses 5 and 9Q. 
These aspects are called Special aspects. 


The other three Inner planets Moon-Venus-Mercury when 
they aspect the Outer planets Mars-Saturn-Jupiter, they also in 


ra 


turn aspect the inner planets and bring the inner planets under 
their control, to act as they dictate. But the inner planets cannot 
control the outer planets by their aspect and make them as they 
dictate. The reason is the inner planets have the capacity to 
aspect only by “th aspect which is called as ordinary aspect or 
even weak aspect. At the same time, the outer planets also 
aspecting the Inner planets by the same 7th aspect - the outer 


planets are stronger in terms of aspects. 


But Moon-Mercury-Venus, when they aspect each other 
amongst themselves, they help each other according to the 


matter in question in the birth chart, 


When it comes to Rahu/Kethu, it is totally a different thing to 
say of aspects. Saturn-Mars-Jupiter-Moon-Mercury-Venus any 
planet that aspects Rahu or Kethu, this Rahu or Kethu almost 
usurp everything of the aspecting planets, and will act as mighty 
agents on behalf of the aspecting planets. There is much to be 
said of Rahu/Kethu and they are dealt separately. Rahu/Kethu 
move in anti-clockwise direction, whereas all other plants move 
in clockwise in the Zodiac. Rahu/Kethu are known as Shadow 
planets formed ahead and behind the earth. The two points at 
which the orbit of the Moon cuts the orbit of the Sun are called 
the Nodes and they are exactly 180° apart. These Rahu/Kethu 
has many matters to offer. Without proper understanding of 
these Rahu/Methu, strengths and the results to happen the 
predictions will go wrong. 

Beyond Saturn, Uranus-Neptune-Pluto goes round the Sun. 
No stars are allotted to them. These 3 planets, how much is 
made use of in prediction, practically negligible in our country. 


Further, these trans-Saturnine planets are made use of by 


ft 


Westerners at Global level to predict natural calamities like 
earthquakes, valcanic eruptions, ebb and tide of the raugh seas, 
typhoons, genetic changes in the process of evolution, 
destructive wars more by bombs, parts of earth caving in and so 
en. 


Coming back ta Saturn, as an outer planet, from above 
when it aspects cther planets, the aspecied planeis are almost 
jolted. The aspecied planets, if they are to give favourable 
results they are prevented and if ithe same aspecied planets are to 
give adverse results they are forced to increase the harmful 
results. According ta casmic order, each planet emit certain 
cosmic rays. Saturn has the element Sulphur which if emits 
through tis cosmic rays. Saturn As is Where, is capable of 
throwing huge quantity of tts cosmic rays towards 90° and 300° 
distance level. Saturn by itself, capable of giving good results, 
offer adverse resulis, or help to offer adverse resulis by iftS 
powerful 3rd and 10th aspect. Saturn by its aspects, the 
aspected planets lose their balance only to offer evil results. If 
you have good drinking water, even a drop of dirty water added 
to it, makes the good water unfit for drinking purpose. In the 
same way, Saturn having Sulphur in its cosmic rays, polluftes the 
good cosmic rays of the aspected planets. 


For example, in a Native's chari, lord of 6th with good 
casmic rays 's jolted and polluted by Saturn through its 90° or 
180° aspects, and drags the said lagna born and forces his 
mind to commit evil acts like murder and ultimately lead him to 
jail. At birth our body is so built that, it is able ta accept more of 
the good and bright cosmic rays of favourable planets and also 
avoid to accepi the dull cosmic rays of the planets, through 
breathe exercises. What we mean by bright and dull is to be 


understcod as exaltation, debilitation, ownership and so on. 
Now we refer to lord of 6th who Is exalted (bright). Saturn if it 
aspects this lord of 6th by its 3rd or 10th aspect containing 
Sulphur type cosmic rays pollute the good and bright cosmic 
rays of the lord of 6th. Inturn this lord of 6th throws its polluted 
cosmic rays on earth. The Native born with an exalted lord of 
6th having good cosmic rays, during its dasa/Duklhi, having 
been subjected to pollution by Saturn, makes him a total pervert, 
thereby compels him to do wrong and unlawful acts like robbery, 
out law, murder and finally lead him for imprisonment. On 
finding no ways to escape he will commit suicide. Or finding no 
ways to escape he will commit suicide. At this stage, the Jupiter 
aspect to Saturn or to the planet aspected by Saturn, the 
Native's mind loaded with bad thoughts are reduced cr totally 
emptied. 


How these bad thoughts are criven out by Jupiter aspect. 
Jupiter does not have any poisonous content in its cosmic rays. 
Its cosmic rays are cocl-breeze type. Jupiter by its aspect over a 
planet having harmful cosmic rays, that aspected planet is made 
powerless as its evil cosmic rays are driven out, and the Native 
breathing it, though having a perverted thinking makes him 
realise to judge quickly the good and bad thereby prevents him 
to do any wrongful acts. In case Jupiter himself is lord of 6th to 
give favourable results (bright, exalted, ownership} and if 
receives Saturn's aspects, Jupiter's pure cosmic rays are 
polluted by Saturn's sulphur type cosmic rays, making the 
Native to think of cruel acts and ultimately lead Native to jail. 


Outer planets, meaning, above earth which = are 
Mars-Saturn-Jupiter, of the three, Mars-Saturn aspects on Inner 
planets (meaning below eanh) which are Moon alongwith earth, 


¥3 


Venus and Mercury, these Inner planets are jotted to the extent 
that they are either prevented to offer good results or directed to 
Increase the evil/narmful results. But these Inner planets 
receiving Jupiter aspects, these aspected planets strengthen 
their fundamental nature, and made more comfortable to offer 
beautiful results. In the same way, Jupiter aspect reduces their evil 
qualities, and make them offer a very much reduced evil results. 


Planet Mars has the qualities of fire in its cosmic rays. 
Naturally, Mars by its aspect, similar to Saturn aspect, alters the 
goad cosmic rays of the planets, thereby inducing the Native to 
suffer by harmful results. Quter planets Mars-Saturn-Jupiter 
apart from the ordinary 7th aspect, each of them have 2 
additional aspects known as Special aspecis. Thai is 
Mars-Saiurn-Jupiter what force they use, by 7th aspect, the 
opecial aspecis namely Saiurn 3 and 10, Mars 4 and 8, Jupiter 5 
and 9 aspects are far powerful. But other planets which are 
Inner planets have only 7th aspect. They donot have any other 
aspect to throw. Of the living beings in general and humans in 
particular need more of anything from Venus and Mercury. Then 
why is if Venus and Mercury does not possess Special aspects’? 
When Venus-Mercury-Moon from below aspects the above 
planeis Mars-Saturn-Jupiter, these Inner planets are not strong 
to alter the nature of the outer planets. They have only the ?/th 
aspect. By this 7th aspect, simultaneously the Outer planet also 
aspect these Inner planets by the same 7th aspect. As such 
these Inner planets are controlled and dictated by the Outer 
planeis. Inner planets aré not strong enough to have ihe outer 
planets under their dictates. As an exception, Jupiter alone has 
the capacity to differ. When Jupiter aspecis Mars and Saturn by 
7th aspect it cannot atter the strength of Mars and Saturn. But 


f4 


the same Jupiter aspecting Mars and Saturn by its 5 and 9 
aspects can alter their evil nature. Jupiter having 7th aspect to 
Mars-Saturn, Mars-Saturn too aspect Jupiter by the same 7th 
aspect. By this mutual aspect, it is Jupiter that is weakened and 
in no way Mars-Saturn's strength to offer evil results are 
reduced or removed. 


Therefore, of the Quter planets Mars and Saturn by their 
aspects cause harmful results whereas Jupiter by its aspect 
cause beneficial results. At the same level the Inner planets by 
their aspect with each other a few good and bad results may 
alter, but by their aspect to outer planets, it will not be wise to 
say that they may do gocd. 


Likewise Sun's aspect will be similar to that of Mars. 


Like all other planets Mars's cosmic rays are not uniform. 
Mars as it nears the Sun, its brightness is less and as it moves 
away from the Sun, it is more bright. Even then, the flow of 
cosmic rays of Mars are disturbed very often, that is staggered. 
Theretcre Mars-Saturn may act as a benefic but by aspect they 
are the worst maletics to offer harmful results. Similarly Jupiter 
by its position may act as a malefic but by its aspect it ts 
exceptionally benefic to offer beneficial results. 


With regard to Sun, when he is in a position to offer 
beneficial results, by its aspect will offer good results. And the 
same Sun, when it is in an unfavourable position, by its aspect 
will offer only evil results. What is now said of Sun, is only for 
the Inner planets Moon-Venus-Mercury. But when aspected by 

uter planets Mars and Saturn, Sun has to offer only harmtul 
| (suits. Sun when it aspects Jupiter, Sun will offer good results 


and in the same coin make Jupiter to reduce his good results. 
Theretore while planetary aspects are studied what all said 
above will prove very correct. 


Planetary Conjunctions- Part II 


Planets by conjunction offer cerlain results transformed 
against their own limits. What levels of change takes place is 
explained. 


When several planets group together in a house several 
views are expressed in general. When two planets in a house 
are together, differing views are expressed in particular. For 
example, Moon and Mars” grouping is known as 
Chandra-Mangala yoga. Moon and Jupiter together is known as 
Guru-Mangala yoga. Again on planetary groupings, aspects, 
Kendhra and Trikona positions many yogas are indicated. To 
hear of the yogas it is very pleasant, but in our day to day reality 
none of the yogas have proved true to the saying. To the 
contrary, unfavourable results stepped in. Further when more 
than 2 planets group in a house, at times 6 or ?, cerlain 
literatures speak of them to be good and certain others speak as 
unfavourable. Still another observation is grouping of 2 planets 
in each house, or from Lagna, planets stationed in each house 
upto 7th house or 6th or Sth house is commonly known as 
Grahamalika yoga or Chakradhara yoga. Of the several yogas 
to be known a separate book has to be written. In our day to day 
practical experience, available horoscopes, when sincerely 
analysed, nothing was found correct worth the name. 


In a Rasi chart, a house to lock at may be small or 
insignificant. But the whole of India is limited or confined to 3 


#6 


houses, against the background that 4 continents make up our 
world. Here we have to think, what and how is the span of one 
house. The group of planets in a house having 3 stars may be 
deposited in one star or deposited in different-diflerent stars. 
Likewise, the planets in a house may be lords of some other 
houses by ownership. For a said lagna these planets may have 
the power to offer beneficial or adverse results. The distance 
between one bhava (house) and the other bhava (house) are 
measured and expressed in degree. Accordingly, it has been 
found out as to how the planets co-operate or otherwise. This 
we know as Friend or Enemy of the planets. Based on this, if 2 
or more planets are deposited in cone star, but within 2°, 
conjoined, closer to each other, amongst them which planet 
runs the dasa/bukthi, the immediate conjoined planet will offer 
its result, to the planet which runs the dasa/bukthi. 


For example, 2 planets as lord of 6 and 7 conjoined in a 
house, lord of 6th running his dasa might deny the marriage or 
cause disease, but this lord ot 7 will go to the help cf lord of 6th 
and conduct the marriage or help to reduce the intensity of the 
disease. After the marriage is over this lord of 7 having given a 
helping hand does not take the responsibility for any good or 
bad in their life. Similarly, lord of 7 running his dasa capable of 
celebrating a marriage or to run a parlnership business, this lord 
of 6th will act to cause separation amongst the life partners or 
business partners. Likewise, a single planet as lord of both 6 
and 7 conjoined with another planet, depending on bukthi lord, 
marriage to take place or stopped or separation after marriage. 
or have reunion, or break up of business partnership or make a 
fresh business partnership, all such things will take place. Other 
than this, planets conjoined in a house, but posited in diflerent 
stars or deposited in the same star but stationed 2° away, these 


if 


planets in different stars does not offer any good or bad. Planets 
in one star but stationed 2° away, as explained above will offer 
results on a dull note, or becomes null and void. Therefore, 
planets conjoined in a house (bhava) deposited in different 
stars, offer the results of that Starlord predominantly by involving 
itself of its house matters. Nothing more nothing less. That is 
mere grouping, said as conjoined, the one or the other planets 
does not make any change at all. 


But more than a planet, if deposited in the same star, are 
found conjoined strictly within 2°, which planet runs the dasa, 
next to it, the conjoined planet offers its results as it gets 
changed or transformed. Similarly, the conjoined planets in the 
same star if it is 2° away, it acts on a dull note or gets null and 
void, as it does not get transformed. All said above, if analysed 
as explained above will work out very correctly. 


Therefore, a Native's birth levels should be ascerlained from 
the lagna position, bhava cuspal positions, planetary aspects, 
Planetary conjoinings, dasa/bukthi level, all of these after proper 
analysis and then predictions made will speak the destiny of the 
Native without a deviation. Native's past-present and future can 
be foretold accurately. For an analysis of this type, a litle strain 
may be felt or the consultant may be in a hurry when the 
astrologer may not be in a position to go tor an indepth probe. At 
such times even the learned astrologers stumble losing their 
balance and olfer irrelevant predictions. For wrong predictions 
consultants also are responsible as most of them act overwise, 
as they raise questions as to "how many co-borns, co-boms to 
mother, grand father-mother alive or not and so on. The quacks 
whe spocn-fed such type of consultants make their livelihood. 
Naturally a decent and learned astrologer who takes all the 


fa: 


pains to probe a Native's profession, future and other connected 
matters, when he avoids to answer few above said questions, 
the consultant underestimates this learned astrologer and goes 
away. Why such a loose thinking cf consultants go around. 
Because at the time of preparing a birth chart by a learned 
astrologer, to help him prepare the chart correctly the tarnily 
details also were furnished. Others who see this type of notings, 
at different periods, keep this in mind and shoct irrelevant 
questions to the learned astrologer and upset him. But a learned 
astrologer who also probes the houses of brothers, he does it 
for a cross check and when what he said was not correct, the 
consultant immediately forms the view that this astrologer is 
next to nething. ttdoes not step there. The consultant agrees to 
totally disagree with the learned astrologer. Afull stop has to be 
put to all these idiotisms. | am willing to join hands with my 
co-astrologers to see the end of such wrong propogandas. 


ltis not that easy, to teil about Sahodhara bhava. Unless 
subjected to a thorough analysis, nothing will be revealed. Here 
3rd bhava speaks of younger brother whereas the 11th tells 
about elder, the 5th or 6th house indicates maternal uncle, 4th 
house the mother and the 9th house stands for father, so much 
so all are contradictory. 


For example, 4th house denotes mother and the 9th house 
denotes father. In an astro chart, if 4th house denctes mother 
the 7th from 4ih that is 10th house should denote father. Im the 
opposite way, when we say 9th house denotes father, the 7th 
house from 9th, that is the 3rd house should denote mother. 
From a wile's chart, we say the 7th house denotes husband. In 
that case, in a male chart 4th house is for mother and the 6th 
from 4th which is 9th (from lagna) is taken as denoting father, 


7g 


and the 9th house when taken as denciting Father, the 8th from 
the 9th which is 4th from Lagna denoting Mother is canfusing to 
all of us. In one’s chart while speaking about mother and father, 
4th house allotted to mather and the 9th house allotted to father. 
Beyond this allotment nothing ts known for clarity. This 
continues till today. Further from a chart Sth house denctes the 
child. The 9th from Sth will be the 1st - that is lagna itself, who is 
the father. If you say it is correct, then the 4th from Sth which will 
be the 8th will stand for Mother. Similarly, take a child's chart. 
When you take the 4th house for Mother, 7th from 4th, which will 
be 10th should stand for father. At the same time, this child as a 
grown up gets a child, the 4th house from the 5th which will be 
Bth should denote the Mother. Thus the houses denoting Father 
and Mother are contradiciory, whereas Westerners take the 
same 4th house for Mother but 10th house is taken for Father 
and they are very assertive in this matter. Therefore these 
contradictory matters should be set at right, when alone 
Father/Mother house positions can be brought out very clearly. 
This is my opinion. Further a Mother gives birth to a child. For 
that child, any ane can be a father. When that ts so, 4th hause 
allotted to Mother is very clear. Therefore the 10th house which 
is 7th to 4th to be denoted to father, will be more appropriate. As 
the 70th house denotes profession, leaving it, 9th house is taken 
for father. This is one way of an opinion. Sum totally, a 
confusing atmosphere prevails to make us doubt that something 
needs to be set at right. In a chart, we find it easy to talk about 
4th and Yth as mother and father. But in wife’s chart the 7th 
house is the husband. In the same wife's chart the 5th house is 
the house of children. The. 3rd fram the 5th which is 7th 
becomes the house of husband, but her 9th house from the Sth 
which is 1st does not stand for the house of father but denotes 
her own house. Thus the set up of houses, to speak from 4 and 


80 


9 for Mother and Faiher, but there ts ne room to talk much with 
other birth charts about wife, son, brother and other connected 
relations to offer a concrete prediction. Therefore, these 
contradictory house alloimenis are siill left, for a comprehensive 
research, which has been not even thought of. That is from a 
birth chart, ff we study the Father-mother house level and have if 
for cross check with that of the birth charts wife, children, elder 
brother, younger brather, the tally is not uniform. 


Hence, Horary method was found: Horary is not based on 
one's birth time. In horary, any given time forms a particular 
lagna. More is ex’lained in coming pages. 


An interesting feature about co-borns, of it, male-female, are 
Interpreted through several methods by certain leading 
astrologers. Now what ts the motive behind. Ii is only to impress 
the consultants. If this tendency is allowed to grow, then we can 
take it for granted, that the 3rd house will not undergo any 
research, but remain stagnant. 


The 3rd house for younger brother, the 71th for elder 
brother, the position of lords of these two houses, ihe position of 
Mars and Jupiter, absence of adverse aspect ta them. Planets 
conjoined with them, their deposits in odd sign or even sign or 
multi-legged, all these when analysed certain mistakes will 
come through properly. Even if we come across certain 
mistakes, through practical experience itn due course these 
mistakes can be corrected. | am of the firm opinion, that tn 
future, we will be in a position to offer a clear prediction, 
provided the research is taken up in right earnest. 


81 


In the absence of research, and as It exists now, will lead to 
a drifl in the wrong direction, only to make the 3rd and 11th 
house untit for any useful prediction, and ultimately lett impotent 
or ruined. Similarly the number of child birlh one will have, to 
avoid confusions analysis of female chart will be more 
appropriate rather than analysis of a male charl. In a male chart 
we can probe to see whether he is destined for progeny or not. 
He may have intimacy with many women, in which case there 
will be nothing but confusion in ascertaining the number ot 
progeny. In the case of a female, though she might have had 
intimacy with other men, the labour is by her ownself. Therefore 
in a female chart, the level of the 5th cusp, the position of the 
lord of Sth, occupants of the Sth house ail analysed 
systematically, | am of the opinion wat in due course as we 
gather experience, we will be able to predict very correctly. 


Nowhere in Astrology a method, a rule, or a formula is given 
for an easy prediction. Predictive parl of the astrology is no 
cakewalk to anyone. Astrology is so set without a proper 
analysis, no prediction will come true. There is no room for 
laziness or for lazy people. Lethargy is the very enemy to 
astrology. Each and every prediction made has to pass through 
a correct analysis and at times even a deep probe. 


Majority of the consultants, who approach as astrologer, first 
wishes to know about the co-borns etc, under the impression 
that ifthe astrologer is able to tell all their irrelevant questions, in 
their view this astrologer is realty a learned lot. These 
consultants keep on the second line what they really wish to 
know about their future, profession, prosperity and so on. What 
is the reason for this pitiable state of a consultant. It is the 
traditional astrologers who have tutored them the wrong way of 


approach. When this is so the really learned astrologer finds 
himself in a fix and needless to say the consultant is also at a 
loss. Naturally the learned astrologer has to evolve tor himselt 
an escape route while facing majority of the idiotic type of 
consultants. The semi-skilled or even skilled traditional 
astrologers who are able to cross check a birth chart to tally with 
that of co-borns etc have no axe to grind, over an useful 
prediction. Unless a systematic home work is done these 
traditional astrologers cannot pitch on predictions useful to the 
consultants like future prosperity, profession, going abroad, 
marriage and so on. They foretell something and something 
boomerangs at a later date to the dismay of the consultant. see 
the dangerous implications of the quick disposal attitude of the 
traditional astrologers. Had they been trained properly, the 
consultants could have saved themselves from several pitfalls 
like investment (in profession) going abroad, higher education 
and so on. 


By certain short cut methods a Native’s co-borns or 
co-borns of the paternal and maternal sides are expressed. 
How it could be or what the short cut methods could. Really 
there ig no such short cut methods to tell only about co-borns. 
Actually what happened is, the local astrologer sets a chart at 
the time of birth mentioning the details of all the co-borns details 
from the parents themselves in order toe tacilitate any other 
astrologer at a later date who happens to read the chart for 
other purposes, will have a smooth time. Therefore it is our duty 
to strengthen the research related to Sahodhara bhava. 
Otherwise, in future we wil have nothing to predict from the third 
house, and the third house matters relevant to brothers will have 
no predictive value and finally reach a stage of ruin. This 
shortfall should be solved by totally removing from the minds of 


a 


the public or atleast reduce this thinking of co-borns. Initially 
there may be some setbacks in our research but | am sure in 
due course, a way will be found out through practical 
experience. 


All about father, mother and co-borns are said in Nadi 
readings. Agreed. No comments at all either in praise of it or to 
underestimate. Nadi writings in palm leaf were made roughly 
2000 years before. On what basis they were written, what are 
the code werds applied, how to decipher these code words, and 
as time changes how the very same code words are to be 
modified, all such details are not known even to the present day 
Nadi readers. According to Astrology the average lite of human 
beings is 120 years. Planets never halt, but circle round and 
round on the same beaten path. Therefore, what levels of joy or 
suffering a Native had in one generation, chances are there to 
be repeated by next generation, with modifications. Here the 
doubt arises, regarding this Nadi, as to the generation gap 
informations were incorporated. If cur doubt proves true, then tt 
is also correct to say, that Nadi readers are able to tell the past 
very accurately, but not the future because what is said about 
future has always proved to be a dismal failure. Still funny is, on 
many occasions the Nadi readers enquire from the consultants 
about the name of father, mother etc., then search out the 
connected palm leats and then make the reading. Itis here our 
doubts gather strengths about the authenticity of the Nadi 
writings. That means, the Nadi available now is more or less a 
manipulated one. Our ancient sages by their deep intuition, and 
deep insight wrote the Nadis. One will be surprised and 
wonder-struck on knowing the readings. But the original Nadis 
are missing. Only the manipulated ones are available. Whatever 


may be said of Nadi, they speak of the past but unable to speak 
of the future. This | explain hereunder with an actual event. 


For example, one consultant approacned the Nadi readers 
to know about his missing son. The Nadi readers by some 
indications as found in the Nadi, informed the consultant that his 
son is alive and the boy will return home during a particular 
month, for which too, some parihara has to be made. The same 
consultant approached me. By horary, | analysed the same 
matter, and informed him that his son is dead, and to make 
enquiries in a particular direction, wherefrom he will get further 
clues to some exlent. The consultant acted accordingly. People 
around informed, that a boy was knocked by Bus on Kollegal 
route and his belongings and other details can be had from the 
Police station. Reaching police station everyihing was found 
true. More details with proof will be found in the coming pages. 
Apart from this, other matters too. Summing up, Nadi tells the 
past. It is unable to tell the future. What is past as we know it, 
there is no need te know the past once again. 


Planets in Retrogression:- Part Il 


Planets when retrograde, how do they eflect a change 1s 
explained- 


Why planets are subjected to retrogression? What are the 
main reasons for retrogression? All planets circle around Sun. 
To say, Sun is a planet it will be more apt to say Sun is a Mini 
star or a Baby star. If Sun throws gigantic fiery rays, it wi'l be 
beyond our imagination to even think of the 2? stars. There is 
nothirig to doubt about. Through Astronomy nothing are +.:- 
able to know the inner secrets ofthe Microcosm, or 


Macrocosom. Such secrets are many. As such all the planets 
from Pluto to Mercury circle round the Sun, a baby star. All 
these planets travel along the path of the 2/7 stars and does not 
circle around the 2/ stars. Planets do not have the strength to 
do so. If they have the strength to do sc, all these planets 
including Sun will be reduced to ashes. The mystery of these 
planet-star relations are known only to God, and no scientists 
can unravel this mystery. Through this mystery, we can only 
know that all living beings are born, dead, and also subjected 
fo the process of evolution. At a particular stage of evolution, 
even the physical appearance of man change beyond 
recognition. Similarly, big animals may be reduced of its 
present size and shape. The smaller animals may outgrow their 
present size and shape. The present day scientists say, our 
Venus of the Solar family will be burnt, and some other planet 
will appear in its place. From Astronomy point of view several 
wonders still remain as mystery. These are all challenges to 
these whe defy God. Strike a match stick you get the fire. What 
made the fire’? Wheretrom it came? You can talk it over for a 
full day. A chemical substance struck with other chemical was 
the cause for fire. But can you say about the mystery behind 
this fire’? With the help of electric current the Radio speaks. Has 
anyone seen the current? The current is known by the result 
of application, say a TV or Radio and so on. As current or air 
cannot be seen, so also is God and the human race is yet to 
comprehend and tell in one word about God- with our naked 
eyes we cannot see God. We can see God only by his acts, 
starling from Love and Compassion, which our senses are able 
to feel. A toilet has a Male and Female picture for the 
uneducated to understand. For the educated, it is enough if the 
writing is Male-Female. Similarly, we are still in the primitive 
stage, that we have no cognition of God and have resorted to 


86 


idol worship, but God has no shape. He Is an all pervading 
force, felt by our subtle mind through meditation, self control 
and so on. God is absolute bliss. A thing called God can never 
be destroyed. For highly evolved souls idol worship is a 
superfluous thing. For them, as only male-female words are 
enough in a toilet, the words Om-Shakthi on which 
concentrated through meditation is more than sufficient. 
Without an effort made to know God, but by ottering 1000 fruits, 
or put money in the big Hundies or pull the Golden chariot not a 
single benefit will reach the devotee. All done is only at a 
psychological level, a feeling for satisfaction to the heart. Water 
finds its level when poured from a higher level, runs to reach 
a place be it dirty or clean. The same water at the lower level 
never runs to a higher plane, even if that area be very 
clean. Likewise, a person free of desires, selfless, pure heart, 
considering cther woman as mother, love that is God reaches 
him by itself, even if a person be a rustic or untouchable. To 
the contrary, one who is selfish, a cheat, one who collects 
abnormal interest, one who runs after other woman and sco on, 
even if they pray 3 times a day or do idol worship, or drops 
currency bundles in Hundi or pull Golden chariot, as water 
doesn't flow towards a higher plane, God will not reach them. 
If oné who indulged in several wrongful acts, but corrects 
himself to a noble life surely God will be with him. 


What all said about God, of which the readers are well 
aware, is not to bore, but to impress about the one word God, 
meaning Almighty, again meaning infinitely powerlul, created 
several universes, stars, plants, the living and non living 
beings. Of His creations, our Solar family is one, in which all 
the planets are made to circle round the Sun in a well defined 
order, the cosmic order. As the planets go round the Sun, the 


a? 


three outer planets Mars-Satum-Jupiter, as they reach roughly 
150° towards Sun, Sun by its mighty and fiery magnetic rays 
tik’ their transits to an apparent backward motion, commonly 
known as Fetrograde motion. In the same manner, the 
Retrograde planets from the Sun position, moving at 270° 
becomes direct and moves forward. That is planets from Sun 
in the 9th house becomes retrograde and from Sun in the 5th 
house gets direct. 


For example on 31-12-1991, Jupiter became retrograde. At 
that time Sun was in 15°9' in Dhanus, while Jupiter was in 
20°59' in Simha. At this distance level Jupiter became 
retrograde. This distance level, from Sun in Dhanus, to Jupiter 
commencing its retrogression in Simha is the 9th house. As the 
planets are to revolve round the Sun, from Jupiter in Simha, 
Dhanus is the 5th house, which is roughly 150°. The same 
can be understood as we say that a planet approaching Sun at 
150° level becomes retrograde or from Sun, the planet in the 
Sth house becomes retrograde. 


similarly, on 1-5-1992 Jupiter became direct. At that time as 
the earth had moved, Jupiter was in Simha 10°59' and when 
Sun was at Mesha 17°13’, Jupiter became direct. That is, for 
Jupiter stationed in Simha, Sun in Mesha, Mesha becomes the 
Sth house which will be roughly 270°. Again when Jupiter 
became retrograde, from Jupiter in Simha, to Sun in Dhanus 
will be the Sth house. Therefore what we understand is that, 
planets nearing Sun at a particular distance becomes 
retrograde, and moving away from Sun at a Darticular distance 
becomes direct. As explained, Mars-Saturn-Jupiter more or less 
at certain distance level during their transits becomes 
retrograde and direct. This is explained by the example chart. 


88 


This level is Jupiter approaching Sun at 150° distance or 
understood as 9th house from Sun. 


31-12-1991 


Poston of Jupiter 
when Retrograde 


Sun 1?7°-13 


Position of Jupiter 
when getting Direct 


This level is Jupiter at 270° distance counted clockwise or 
Understood as 5th house from Sun. 


similarly, the tnner planets Venus and Mercury also get 
retrograde, but with a difference, compared to the Outer planets 
Mars-Saturn-Jupiter. The Quter planets Mars-Saturn-Jupiter 


gets retrograde as they move towards Sun but Venus and 

Mercury gets retrograde as they move away from the Sun.That 
is Mercury and Venus from Sun, Is taken care of not to cross 
the 3rd house from ‘Sun. Sun halts Mercury and Venus, 
entering the 3rd house. The liberty given to Quter planets 
Mars-Saturn-Jupiter, if given to Inner planets Mercury and 
Venus, also, the earth itself will be destroyed. Every living being 
will change their lite to sudden and strange ways. For this 
reason, Sun from its position allows Mercury to reach 20° to 
21°, and beyond that gets Mercury to retrograde to hold itself 
within the three houses limit. As and when Mercury transiting 
behind the Sun, the same cosmic order will be followed. For 
Venus, it is to become retrograde roughly at 28° from Sun. As 
and when Venus trails behind the Sun. retrogression will be in 
the same order. That is Mercury and Venus while transiting trom 
Sun behind to it or ahead of it should not cross the third house. 
Qf ailthe planets it is Mercury that gets retrograde very oflen, 
But at the same time it is Mercury which is more applicable to 
earth level matters. Moon-Sun-Rahu Kethu never gets 
retrograde. Take cricket for example. It is a game played with a 
ball. Imagine Mercury to everything of this ball. The whole world 
attaches much importance to this Cricket played with the ball. 
Newspapers speak of this Cricket by a full page. No other game 
is given so much prominence as much to the game Cricket 
Even leading Scientists trail behind a Crickt hero's news 
coverage. All the four continents, several heads of states give 
that much importance to this Cricket even out of proportion 


Coming back te our imagining Mercury to that of the 
Cricket ball, we should search in our thinking to know how deep 
our ancients probed to arrive at the importance of Mercury at 


90 


our earth level. That is the reason why Mercury is made to 
transit, within a boundary limit from Sun by nature's cosmic 
order. Mercury is lord of the dual sign, acts swift, thoughts are 
by action, tall, whether one speaks a lie or truth it will be made 
to believe, to have twins, to have two wives, to have adopted 
child, talkative, writing, arts, paintings, press, education, 
journalism, magazines for all these Mercury is the chief 
significator. In astrology Mercury heads all other planets. From a 
birih chart, Mercury as he is, reveals about good or bad, honest 
or a lier, talkative or silent, speed or steady. 


Now let us see what changes are made by the retrograde 
planets. Much is said about retrograde planets. Views differ. 
From my experience, covering several years of research, cerlain 
truths | observed are- A planet may be owner of one or two 
houses. For example, a Kumbha lagna, Jupiter is the rightful 
owner of houses 2 and 11. As such he is a vryadhipathi to 
houses 3 and 12. Always and at any time he is ever a 
vryadhipathi te houses 3 and 12 to give harmful results and 
never a favourable result. He will give favourable results only 
when he (Jupiter) is deposited in the stars of lords of 3 and 12 
houses. Such a circumstance will be rare. Therefore tor houses 
3-12, Jupiter is vryadhipathi to give unfavourable results, is a 
constant factor. When this is so, Jupiter when it is retrograde 
and running its Dasa, the Native enjoys the results of houses 3 
and 12. That is, Jupiter when retrograde, house 3 and 12 offers 
their own house results. Or to tell in a different manner, Jupiter 
himselt allows to offer the results of houses 3 and 12. When* 
Jupiter Dasa is current, houses 3 and 12 are so submissive to 
deny the results of houses 3 and 12. Even during the bukthi 
aad anthara cf houses 3 and 12 the set of circumstances that 


1 


prevail will be very dull. Because Jupiter's 2nd house is 
vryadhipathi to the 3rd house; Jupiter's 11th house is again 
the vryadhipathi to the i2th house. Under ithe said 
circumstances, Jupiter when it becomes retrograde loses its 
power to spoil the houses 3 and 12. But at the same time, 
when the bukthi or anthara period of houses 3 and 12 are on or 
as a Day lord or Hasi lord, or Star lord houses 3 and 12 will 
speak very decisively to the minute. For any Native born in 
Kumbha lagna, Jupiter when retrograde, change of place or 
change in job, signing of agreement, sale of house or land or an 
investment in an undertaking, and such other matters will 


certainly take place. What | have said when put to test will prove 
correct. In case the results do not come through for Kumbha 
lagna Native, as already explained, Jupiter ought to be in the 
stars of lord of 3 and 12 at birth. If so depasited, 3-12 houses 
result are offered By Jupiter when he is in direct motion. If 
Jupiter is retrograde, the houses 3-12 cannot give any result. 
such situations are very rare, Hence, Planet Jupiter or any other 
planet relevant to some houses, just because of a retrograde 
position of a planet results are net altered but run through 
normally. What is explained is not only for Jupiter but for all 
other planets and all other houses. Therefore, any planet when 
itis retrograde, that planet (A) to which house it is vryadhipathi, 
becomes powerless to spoil that house. On account of this, it 
has to give results as detailed above, and but for it, a mere 
retrogression, certainly does not alter any result. Hetrograde 
planets be it Jupiter or Saturn or Mars or Mercury or Venus, 
unless they have connection to vrya houses, these retrograde 
planets do not alter any routine result. Hetrograde planets when 
they become direct, back to the original positions, as 
vryadhipathis to prevent the results of the house ahead of it. 
This is how the retrograde planets behave. 


ge 


LAGNA LORD AND Ils IMPORTANCE 


In a birth chart, the lagna lord is the starting point. Lagna 
lord is of paramount importance as it forms the very foundation 
to tell about longevity, health, success or failure, whether his 
earnings will be from his birth place or abroad and so on. 
Therefore lagna lord, how he emerges at the fundamental level, 
when studied, reveals all other levels of his life. Lagna lord has 
a grade from the basic level to sori out. the high and low profiles 
of several matters. That is to say, whether the Native according 
to his birth chart from the lagna level, gets the tag high grade. 
low grade or middle level grade, This grade to the lagna lord is a 
determined one. By profession, the Native whether he will set up 
a big level industry, or lower level or middle level industry, even 
though it is revealed from the 10th house. it has big and small 
size in the higher grade, big and small in the medium grade. and 
again big and small in the lower grade levels. For e,xamole. one 
is destined to run a spinning mill. as determined by the 10th 
bhava, the very spinning mill has a big or small size. Similarly, 
richness of a person decisively indicated by the second bhava, 
person having few lakhs, person having several lakhs, - %rsan 
having crores all are rich. Therefore, it is the lagna bhava, that 
the grade of which determines the rich-richer and the richest. at 
the very fundamental level. In the same way prolession- by 
service- a paid job too, has several strata. Still further, 
profession by arts - astrology - trading - science - politics - job 
runs to many many categories - all these graded at the very 
fundamental level. Therefore the lagna lord gets subjected to be 
sorted cut to a grade, as destined, at the very fundamental level, 
and establishes one's worth in lite. 


The same can be explained by an example. To a place a 
VIP arrives. All people at that place who were engaged in 
something or other runs to receive and respect the VIP. In the 
same coin when a simpleton arrives at the same place, no one 
receives him or respect him as was done to the VIP. The VIP 
and the simpleton both are human beings, the treatment the ViP 
had was not there te the simpleton. Why this difference? 
Because the VIP is a strong fellow and the simpleton is a weak 
fellow. Accordingly, the treatment by the public also changed. 
That is the lagna lord at the very fundamental level sorted out 
the VIP of a higher grade and the lagna lord of the simpleton 
sorted him te an insignificant grade. As explained of the VIP and 
simpleton of the treatment they had from the public, the planets 
also act in accordance with the fundamental levels cf the lagna 
lord, who was sorted out to a grade- the VIP grade or simpleton 
Grade as destined and then established. 


Let us take a Sub Inspector at a police station. The 10tn 
bhava as destined made him asl. This is general observation to 
any ohne who gets the SI post. Ifthe lagna lord is strong or weak 
What changes it will make. When the lagna lord of the SI is 
strong his subordinate police staff under him will work according 
to his order in the disciplined way. This SI will be popular figure 
of that area. For any law enforcement matters this Sl will be the 
first person to say and the public also will approach him only. 
Suppose the lagna lord, if it is weak, and the Native posted as 
Sl, his subordinate staff will work contrary to his orders or this Sl 
will have to listen and act what his subordinate staff tells. It ts 
not an uncommon sight in some police station, where the Head 
constable will be acting like a Sl. Naturally, in that area the 
popularity of the Sl is weak. Needless to say, the public also 
approaches the subordinate staff and get their work done. 


g4 


subjecting the area SJ in the process. ine S!, having a strong 
lagna lord such a second level thing cannot happen. that is 
people cannot have their way through subordinate staff as they 
like. Therefore in all matters like trade - industry science, 
politics - arts and so on, the lagna lord as graned. at the 
fundamental level destiny is shaped and establisned. in politics 
also from a Minister to Prime Minister and above him a 
President, the grade of the lagna lord is sorted out as destined 
and established. 


Therefore only when lagna lord stands strong then only the 
other bhavas will offer results in support of the lagna lord. 
according to their disposition. In the same way when the lagna 
lord stands weak, the results offered by other Bhavas, to that 
weak lagna, will be unfavourable and undesirable. Or, tithe 
other bhavas according to their disposition are able to offer 
favourable results, this Native will not be able to enjoy such 
favourable results, as the lagna lord of his Native at birth was 
sorted to a grade, that good results will never reach him. This 
way too, one can understand. 


How to judge whether a lagna lord is strong or weak is 
explained. They are of four types- 


1.A very strong level of the lagna lord. 
2. Middle level strength of the lagna lord. 
3. Weak levels of a lagna lord. 

4. Very weak level of a lagna lord. 


1. A very strong level of the lagna lord means, the lagna lord 
should occupy any one of the houses 2,3,9,10,11,4 and 
tenanting the stars of lords of houses 2,19,11. 


g5 


2. Middle level strength of the lagna lord means, the lagna 
lord not found occupying 2,3,9,10,11,4 but occupying 5 or 8 or 
12, and tenanting the stars of lords 2-10-11. 


3 (a). Weak levels of a lagna lord means, the lagna lord 
though occupying anyone of the houses 2,3,9,10,11,4 but 
tenanting the stars of lords of houses 5-8-12. 


3(b} In a different way, the lagna lord occupying 5-8-12 
houses and tenanting the stars of lords of 2-10-11, the lagna 
lord seems to be strong. but is considered to be one step below 
fo that of Middle level strength. 


4. Very weak level of a lagna lord means, the lagna lord 
occupying 5-8-12 houses and also tenanting the stars of lords of 
5-8-12 houses. 


All birth charts will not always be found as explained above. 
Gerlain charls alone will come through exactly as explained. All 
planets other than Sun and Moon have two houses. One house 
may give Pleasant results and the other house may offer 
unpleasant results. What | have been explaining about a strong 
lagna lord or a weak jiagna lord, still remains only as 
approximates. Lagna lord subjected to 5-8-12 house is weak. 
Lagna lord subjected to 2-3-10-11 houses is strong. This is a 
general and an approximate conclusion. As such, we have to 
study the house occupied by the lagna lord, the constellation it 
tenants, the aspects it has etc., and then sorl out the grade at 
the fundamental level. 


For example, persons born in Simha lagna, lagna lord Sun, 
occupying the second house, if deposited in Hastha star. Moon 


96 


star lord of Hastha, is a vryadhipathi and hence a weak lagna 
lord. At the same time, Sun by virlue of occupying the second 
house, does not make it a totally Weak lagna lord. In the same 
coin Sun occupying Cancer, the 12th house and deposited in 
the star of Aslesha, the star lord being the owner of house 2 and 
11, and here if you consider Sun te be a strong lagna lord, still 
sun as occupant of the 12th house, does not make it a totally 
strong lagna lord. Likewise, with a little more effort in our 
analysis, we should determine the correct strength of the lagna 
lord. A chart to have all the favourable results, will be a rare one. 
Very few births are gifted to be very rich, a great scholar or have 
name and fame. Majority of the populace belong to the middle 
level or even below the middle level. The root cause for such a 
stoop level has been amply explained in the above lines. To 
make it more clear, we now take up two birth charts of Natives 
who are known to all, as leading and popular figures. 


Birth charts of two popular persons. 


AL 4,53 


X 3.41 Sun 19.24 XII 4.44 


MER 25.36 : 
Moon 25.27| Yen 23-59 


Ke 4,09 Nod 
VIET 0.46 Birth chart of Former €.M 
Sri M,Karunaniani 
Mars 28.31 Date of Birth 3-6-1924 
VIE 3,32 Tuesday 9.00 AM 


Jup 22.42 Sat 3.27 
Ve4.54 IV 3.47 Hi 0.56 


N: 10.47 €: 79-10 Mars dasa balance 5-8-20 
Star - Mrigasira. Lagna - Gancer, Rasi - Rishaba 


$7 


Chart No.1 in this chart lagna lord Moon occupies the 11th 
house, tenanting Mrigasira star, lord of 5-10 is stationed in 7th . 
Therefore the lagna lord is connected to houses 5-10-4-11, 
Hence lagna lord is strong. 


Moon 11.35 
1123.18 | jupis.57 | Ra 10.21 | Mars 6.31 
HI 24.49 Iv 22.28 ¥ 18.38 
11/3.18 Birth chart of Cine Actor VI 16.22 
Sri. Sivaji Ganesan 


ponies Date of Birth 1-10-1928 
M11 16.22 Monday 4.40 PM ¥1118.18 
Kethu dasa balance 0-11-1 
K 22.28 IX 24.49 
XI 18.38 Sat 21.20 | mer 10.55] Sun 15.14 
Ke 10 21 Ven 9,53, | VHI 25.48 


star - Aswini Lagna - Kumbha Rasi - Mesha N 10-47 E 79-10 


Chart No.2 In this chart lagna lord Saturn is in the star of 
Mercury, lord of 5 and 6 and its stationed in the area of 8th 
house. Signwise though in 9th, bhavawise he is confined to thA 
8th house only. Therefore lagna lord is connected to 5-8-9-1-142. 
Hence lagna lord loses his strength and becomes a weak lagna 
lord. 


Only when the lagna lord ts strong, the other bhavas by their 
formations, will offer to a Native, the benefits tn a full measure. If 
the lagna lord ts not strong, that is weak formation of other 
bhavas too, will not give the benefits in a full measure as 
explained in the earlier pages. To understand this salient point, tn 
a clear and easy manner, these two charts are quoted as example 
charts. 


No.1 chart: Former CGhief Minister Sri. Karunanidhi is a 
Cancer born. Lord of Cancer is Moon, that is Cancer lagna, 
lagna lord Moon is in the star of Mrigasira, whose lord is Mars 
owner of 5 and 8 is stationed in the 7th. Moon lord of 1 occupies 
the 11th. As already explained, this lagna lord (Moon) without 
any connection to houses 5-8-12, but connected to 2-10-11 
become very strong. Besides Moon is again connected only to 
the second house as It travels alongwith Sun, lord ofthe second 
house, and then covering the other houses 1-10-14-5 as already 
shown. With relevant to 5-8-12 house connections, except the 
Sth, houses 8 and j2 are not at all connected. For this reason, 
the lagna lord became strong, and could make Mr. Karunanidhi, 
a Ghiet Minister. Here too, had there been no connection to the 
5th house, he would have continued to be a Chief Minister for a 
long time to come. Just because one evil house, that is the 5th 
house connection the lagna lord had, situations arose that he 
had to take leave of the Chief Minister's post. Even then 
Dasa/bhukthi periods if favourable may put him back in the 
saddle i.e. CM post. lf tha same Dasa/bukthi periods are 
unfavourable, he may not be elected at all. Here the subject 
taken for analysis is not to find.out whether he will again 
become the Chief Minister. A lagna lord when he is strong and 
the lagna lord when he is weak, on what fundamental level the 
grade of the lagna lord is determined and established, is cur aim 
of the analysis, and to make this very clear, the example charl 
was probed. Again to probe the future also from the chart is not 
our aim. 


Next we take up Chart No.2, that of Sri. Sivaji Ganesan. 
According to our analysis his lagna is Kumbha. Saturn is lord of 
Kumbha lagna. In this charl, lagna lord, Saturn is in the star of 
Mercury. Mercury is lord of 5 and 8, and though stationed in the 


9th sign but by bhava he is confined te the 8th house territorial 
limits. Therefore lagna lord on account of its connection te 
houses 5-8-12, the Native did not reach a stage even to the 
level of a Minister, inspite of his popularity in politics, inspite of 
his being a MP and even inspite of being a party head. Till date 
he has not reached the stage of a Minister. The other bnavas 
even though they are found to be favourable, making him do 
several good things, and yet people who marched behind him 
have become Ministers, But not this Native. What is the reason? 
The reason is that at the very fundamental level, the lagna lord 
was destined and established of a Weak grade. How the lagna 
lord became weak? The lagna lord by its connection te houses 
> 8-12 the Native became weak, ctherwise to be said that the 
lagna lord lost his strength. As explained above, | repeat that 
lagna lord if connected te houses 5-8-12, indicates that lagna 
lord is weak. For reasons of other favourable bhavas, he was a 
leading and popular cine actor but his ambition was in politics 
and that ambition was never fulfilled inspite of some nocble 
deeds of his, inspite of being a head of the party. and inspite cf 
having had even good suUpperts at the political level, Sivaji 
Ganesan did not reach the highest level in pelitical field, the 
ambitious goal he set for himself. 


But in the case of Sri. Karunanidhi, the lagna lord by its 
connection te houses 2-10-11, he was able to capture the 
power At times he was removed from the peak level, but again 
he captured the power. He may still have cpportunities for a 
come Back. 


We are now able to Understand very clearly from these two 
birth charts, that lagna lord only when strong, the other bhevas 
also by their favourable disposition can offer favourable tesults 


100 


to the lagna lord in a full measure. And the lagna lord if weak at 
the fundamental level itself, even though other bhavas are set to 
offer a favourable support, the beneficial resultls arrived at will 
not be in a full measure is hereby amply explained. 


FIRST House - Lagna bhava 


According tc one's birth time, from Mesha to Meena, any 
one sign will be a lagna. Therefore of the 12 houses of the 
zodiac, which house as per birlh time, is fixed as lagna, thaT 
lagna Rasi is known as ist house, and other 11 houses are 
calculated to speak of good and bad results to occur to the 
Native. 


The lagna so set contains 3 main divisions. This division 
pari governs the set lagna. They are 
1. Movable (Chara) signs - 4 
2. Fixed (Sthira) signs - 4 
3. Gommon (Ubhaya) signs - 4 


The 12 houses are set as either Movable or Fixed or 
Common. Lagna may be fixed in any one of the 3 main 
divisions. But this Movable, Fixed, Common are constant and 
does not change. 

1. Mesha - Karkata - Thula - Makara 4 - movable signs. 
2. Rishaba - Simha - Vrischika - Kumbha 4 - fixed signs 
3. Mithuna + kanya - Dhanus - Meena 4 - common signs. 


In this set up of the zodiac- Movable signs (Chara rasi) 
aspects always the 11th house. Fixed signs (Sthira rasi) aspects 
always the 9th house. Common signs (Ubhaya rasi} aspects 
always the 7th house. 


101 


The aspects by the above said rasi's (Signs}, generally, 
never give good results. Therefore, for any one born in Movable 
signs like Mesha - Karkata - Thula - Makara, as lagna, the lord 
of the 11th in most cases, generally always offer only evil 
results. In case this 77th lord is deposited in the stars of lords of 
houses; 2,3,9 10, evil results may be reduced and at certain 
times ever good resulis may come through. Otherwise this lord 
of 11th is capable of giving results like death, disease, suicide, 
loss of wealth. damage to profession and so on ina 
conspicuous manner, taking the lead alongwith Dasa/bukthi 
period who are evenis setters. 


In the same way, Fixed ({Sthira rasij) — signs 
Rishaba,Simhal VrischikaKumbha offerevil results in ihe same 
manner, as said for Fixed signs - the 9th lord wil offer the 
harmful results. 


In the same way, Common signs (Ubhaya rasi) Mithuna 
kanya - Dhanus - Meena - offer evil results in the same manner 
As said for the fixed signs - ithe 7th lord will offer the harmful 


What is said of evil results that could be offered by lords of 
11th, 9th and 7th for Movable-Fixed-Common signs respectively 
aré approximates of a general rule. In this, even auspicious 
planets like Jupiter arid Venus are no exceptions at all. Planets 
connected to lords of 17th or Sth or 7th, by . aspect er conjunction 


or at 120 deg. aspect are weakened to offer evil results as against 
their original position to offer good results, and dunng the timing 
of events , they invariably offer evil results with precision. 


Lords of 11,9,7 of Movable, Fixed, Common signs 
respectively are named as “Badhakasthanathipathis, 
Eventhough they are empowered to offer such “cruel results, 
Jupiter alone, when by his aspect will not allow the evil results to 
occur. But at the same time, according to Chara-Sthira-Ubhaya 
level matters as they come bhadhakasthanathipathis, without 
fail they offer only the evil results, Jupiter aspect alone being 
the exception. 


These bhadakasthanathipathis, are Captains of the 
planetary teams to offer evil results. A suicide has to occur. It Is 
operated by lords of 8-12. Unless the Captain 
badhakasthanathipathi is connected to 8-12, this suicide cannot 
take place. Similarly accidents, disease, material loss, murder, 
disgrace in profession and several such matters of crue by 
nature are set in motion by the authorised planets, only to wait 
for the arrival of the badhakasthanathipathi, and on their arrival 
only, a cruel incident, or say a tragedy is completed. That is, 
planets as House Signifacators who are none else than 
Dasa/bukthi lords, authorised to shape a tragic event can never 
act independently at any time. They must have the 
bhadakasthanathipathi to complete the "Operation Tragic," 


Therefore, whenever a lagna position is analysed, if an 
astrologer, first probes this bhadakasthanathipathi and his 
connection to several other matters, 50% (fiffy percent) success 
is achieved, on the predictive side, relevant to a Native’s chart. 


Even these Badhakasthanathipathis, when deposited in 
certain constellation, the evil effects either they are reduced to 
a great extent or become defunct to offer evil results. 


Ta3 


Let us take an example of a Gancer born. As it is one of the 
Movable signs (Chara rasi), as explained the 11th house is 
badhakasthana. Lord of the 11th house is Venus. Now we will 
take it for granted that this Native is destined to meet with an 
accident according to 8-12 positions decided at the very birth. At 
the appropriate time, the lords of 8-12 will set everything ready 
for the accident and eagerly await the arrival of the 11th lord i.e. 
badhakasthanathipathi. How this lord of 11th comes into 
picture? He will visit as Anthara lord or Sookshama lord. If this 
11th lord does not fit himself either as Anthara lord or 
Sockshama lord, he will make a sudden and surprise visit as 
Day lord or Moon rasi lord or as Moon rasi Star lord or wherever 
the opporiune position is available he will enter- say the most 
sensitive point of the zodiac in which the lagna moves- there he 
assumes the role of Captain of the planetary team to complete 
the event "Operation Tragic". This is a general observation. 
Due to accident the Native may even die. But at the same time, 
if this 11th lord is deposited in cerlain constellations, the evil 
results will be averted, as the 11th lord gets defunct. Mars lord 
of 5-10 for Cancer berns do goed. If this T1th lord ts deposited 
in one of the 3 stars of Mars, and be it Chithra in Kanya rasi, an 
accident scene is created only to give a frightening situation but 
that accident will be averted, without a symptom of the tragic 
event. And if the same 11th lord is deposited in Mars star 
Mrigasira in Fishaba or Mithuna or in the star Dhanishta of 
Makara/Kumbha, the accident Will take place without any 
danger to the life of the Native but leaving behind a litile bruises 
or scratches on the body. 


Hence, this Badhaka level matters common to all 
CGhara-Sthira -Ubhaya houses, their lords related to 11 -9-7, must 
be carefully studied to arrive at a conclusion, whether evil 


results like accidents can occur or whether they wil be averted; 
this careful study is of prime importance. Everthing explained 
so far about the lagna level to that of 11th lord will always 
remain without any change, and therefore can be analysed to a 
clear cut level. That is, when we study how this 
badhakasthanathipathis/badhaka lords are connected to the 
lagna bhava 1st house. We get a clear picture of accidents of 
sudden nature, short life or long life and several matters 
pertaining to the lagna Ghava- 1st house. 


ist house matters 


Head, body constitution, male personality, respect, 
leadership, success in all undertakings, Meditation, majestic 
nature, to complete a work as planned, self control and so on 
are covered under this 1 st house. 


According to one's birth time, this 18f house will fall in a 
sign-star-and sub. For example, one's lagna falls in Mesha in 
20°40’. Details of this position is explained as under- 


X11 15.54 | 20.40 ll 19.21 Il 15.26 
i 

XI 12.30 Jup 4.16 

IV 13.45 


Mesha Lagna 
X 13.45 V 12.30 


IX 15.26 


Sat isto Will1g.21 Vil 20.40 VI 15.51 


1. Mesha lagna fall m - 20°40", 

2. Lord of Mesha lagna- Mars 20°40' falls in Venus star. 
Therefore lagna star lord is Venus. 

3. In Venus star, of the 9 subs - 20°40’ 

one sub portion relates to Jupiter. 


Of the 9 subs, we say lagna falls in Jupiter sub. How do we 
find out? In Mesha lagna, the first 13°20" span relates to Aswini, 
star lord of whom is Kethu. From the 20°40' deducting 13°20', 
7°20' runs along Venus star. Again in Venus star 

the 1stpart- sub/Venus 2°-43'-20"i.e. = 1337-20" 


2nd part- sub/Sun 0°-40'-00" i.e 40'-00" 
3rd part - Sub/Moon 1°-06'-40" i.e 66'-40" 
Ath parl Sub/Mars 0°-46'-40" Le 46'-40" 
5th part Sub/R ahu 2°-00'-00" i.e. 120'-00" 


6°-46'-40" i.e. AG6'-4G" 


20°-40' means - minus 7°-20'-00" je  440*-G0" 
Aswini and 62.46'-40" ie 406'-40° 
inclusive of Rahu sub upto 0%33’-20" ie 33'-30" 


106°40° 
-39'20" 
7320" 
Of the 7° 20', we need 33'20" 
Jupiter's total span 1°46'40" 
0233'20" 
1°13'20" 


Therefore lagna falls in Venus star and out of its 9 sub iff 
falls in the 6th sub, which is the sub division allotted to Jupiter. 
That is, in Mesha inclusive of Aswini star, on the span 20-06-46 


to 21-5320, tagna falls in Venus star and out of its 9 sub 
division, it falls in the 6th sub division allotted to Jupiter. 


Now Mesha Lagna falls in 20-06-40 
Lord of Mesha sign - Mars 1 level 
Lord ot star - Venus 2 level 
Of the 9 subs of venus- 

lord of the 6th sub - Jupiter 3 level 


As said above, the lagna position is read. As such, every 
matter connected to Mesha lagna- the 3rd level Jupiter will be 
the principal factor to be reckoned with while delineating results 
of the lagna bhava i.e. 1st house. One thing to be looked at very 
carefully is that, of the sign lord Mars, the next star lord Venus 
and the next sub lord Jupiter whe comes in the 3rd level, as the 
6th subdivision lord of the 9 subdivision- this Jupiter will have 
the rightful say in all matlers connected to Mesha lagna i.e. 
Bedy constitution, life, success and failures. In fact, this sub 
lord Jupiter is the SUPREMO to offer the results to Mesha 
lagna and to the Mesha lagna lord Mars. The other bhavas 
might be having in store, either favourable or unfavourable 
matters to offer, but the entire results relevant to the lagna 
bhava- 1st house to be offered is entrusted to this lagna sub 
lord, whe in turn according te his strength regulates the results 
of lite events and offer it to the lagna and the lagna lord. 


This level of analysis is not limited to one's birth lagna 
alone, but it is equally applicable to Horary lagnas also. Next for 
the 2nd house matters - 2nd cuspal sub lord is the SUPREMO 
for the 2rd house matters - 3rd sub lord is the SUPREMO for the 
4th house matters - 4th cuspal sub lord is the SUPREMO. 


10? 


Likewise, the other sub lords of other houses upto 12th 
house, the 12 different sub lords are SUPREMOS tc bestow 
results as they are the Chief governors of the respective houses 
depending on their nature, offer favourable or unfavourable 
results. 


The conclusion- 


The conclusion is that house matters are predominantly 
offered by this subdivision lord, more than the signlord, as that 
sign was born on a particular degree/minutes/seconds i.e. 
sign-star-sub. In it the star having 9 subdivision- and on which 
subdivision the lagna falls, that subdivision lord, takes Under its 
control all the matters pertaining to that house, and acts as a 
SUPREMO more than the sign lord himself. 


This is how the all the houses 1 to 12 are set, where the 3rd 
jlevel lord- who is called the sublord- is the SUPREMO to offer 
results of the respective houses. 


1. Lord of the house- Rasi lord- Sign lord 

2. Lord of the star where cusp falls - Star lord 

3. One subdivision of the 9 divisions - 
Subdivision lord - sub lord. 


Of the houses 1-12 each house cuspal sub lord is the Chief 
governor to offer the results for the respective houses. What 
matter of the relevant houses that are to be analysed is to take 
place or not is decided by these cuspal sub londs. 


The matter so taken for analysis, the sub lord in whose 
constellation it is deposited, if favourable the event will 


108 


materialise; and f- the sub lord in whose constellation it ts 
deposited negates the matter then the event matter will never 
materialise. The details of the above said is explained more 
clearly in Horary method. 


The act of sub lord ts a kin to sales deed as it reaches upto 
the Sub Registrar's Office. It is also a kin to the Ration Officer 
who puts his seal on every Ration card of a family on the basis 
of income, the quota allotted for supply be it sugar, kerosene, 
wheat, oil and so on. 


On the same analogue, as per the quota allotted by each 
cuspal sub lord = only the dasa/bukthi lords will act. These 
dasa/bukthi lords may be ruling or exalted or debilitated or he in 
the enemy's camp, or in the friends quarters, they have to act as 
per the command of the cuspal sub lord, and give the results 
according to the measure, without a single change, unfailingly. 
Dasa/bukthi lords cannot add or lessen a result decided by the 
cuspal sub lord. 


Here as we are dealing with lagna bhava - 1st house, we 
find the lagna falls in 20°40' in Mesha - the rasi lord is Mars, 
star lord in Venus and sub lord in Jupiter. 


Now on we will study, how this sub lord Jupiter, subjects 
himself to the 1st house to offer the results. Sublord Jupiter is in 
Cancer - in 4°-16' in Saturn star Pushya. Therefore, Jupiter will 
give the results of Houses 10-11 as Saturn is the owner of 
10-11, then the 8th house which house, Saturn occupies, then 
the 3rd house occupied by Jupiter and houses 9 and 12 as 
Jupiter is the owner of houses 9-12. The result to be offered by 


FOU 


Jupiter of the houses 10-11-6-3-5 12 will be according to 
circumstances cf house matters taken for analysis. 


That is, Jupiter will predominantly offer the results of Houses 
10-41 8 and then the 3rd house which he (Jupiter} occupies and 
then his (Jupiter) own houses 9-12. In other words, Jupiter is 
connected to houses 10-11-6-3-9-12 and or he (Jupiter) gets the 
power to offer the results of the said houses. 


As Jupiter is connected to houses 10-11-8-3-9-12, we will 
now study what results he will offer ‘> the lagna Le. Mesha 
lagna as per our example chart. For Chara rasi, Mesha lagna 
we are aware that 11th house is badhakasthana. The sub lord 
Jupiter is well connected to houses 1{-8. His (Jupiter) own 
house is 12th. From this, ttis clear that the Native of this Mesha 
lagna will come across an accident in his life is a decided one. 
At the same time as 3rd house connection is there, it is still clear 
that such an accident will happen during travel times. As Jupiter 
is in Saturn star in Cancer, Moon sign, the accident will take 
place while vavelliig by a vehicle during rainy days or the 
vehicle going .ut of control and fall in a River or lake or we!! 
The accident may also happen while walking and caught in the 
midst of flood wate'rs. The said accident to take place will be 
mainly due to water, petrol, oil etc. When the accident to happen 
is decided one, the next question is whether rr will die or 
escape from the accident. To ail. 2 / houses are the 
Marakasthanas and also a badhakasthana to Ubhaya rasi lagna 
borns. If all the three houses conjointly or:erate. then only, one 
.an lose his life. Here Jupiter it» connected to t.airskasthana 
1é. 11th and fo 8-12 but not at ail connected to ‘.:uses 2-7. 
Therefore, accident will taxe place but no de... to the iife. 

=", Our nexl analysis i: to probe when ti. io. acerit wit take 


110 


place. Of the 8-11-12 houses one should run the dasa. Then, 
the planets deposited in the constellations of 811-12 lords 
should run the bukthi or lagna lord should run his bukthi, and 
during this period, lord of 8-11-12 houses or a planet occupying 
the constellations of lord of 8-11-12 should run his anthara. Or 
planets connected to 8-11-12 houses should run his bukthi or 
when lagna lord runs his anthara, accident to happen is 
decided. 


One anthara will roughly run from 20 days to 6 months. 
Depending on the planets it may be days or months. During 
such periods accident to happen, the day to day planets, 
covering the 2-7-8-11-12 areas, one of them will be Day lord, 
another dasa lord, and yet ancther which rises as Star day- that 
day will be confirmed for the accident to occur. Further on that 
day, planets covering 2-7-8-11-12 areas, lagna transit while 
commencing in this sensitive sign- part of the zodiac and at 
what time this lagna transit - area commences, it will take 
roughly 2 hours to complete its transit. Dunng this two hours, 
count down is made for the exact time of the approaching 
accident. This sensitive area of the sign contains 2 1/4 stars. In 
each star lagna to transit takes 52 minutes. Of this 2 1/4 stars 
which star is connected to 2-7-8-13-12, from that star the real 
count down. starts. Twin star has 9 subs and one sub of it 
relates to 2-7-8-11-12. When the moving lagna touches that sub 
part having a span of 5 3/4 minutes interval strictly connected to 
2-7-8-11-12, in that 5 34 minutes accident takes place 
unerringly. 


All the above said are not only for accidents, but all other 
matters related to that lagna, whether favourable or 
unfavourable all events will occur in full and final as explained 


11° 


above. If we analyse a charl of a Native who had the accident or 
we make a forecast for a Native of the accident to come, as 
explained above, the readings of the charl will be 100% crystal 
clear. This | am emboldened to tell emphatically. 


Nexl this (Mesha lagna} lagna sub lord Jupiter- other than 
accident, what other results are expected of him, is explained as 
follows. Jupiter lord of 9-12 occupies 3rd house, 3-9-12 houses 
signify a Native's travel to abroad. Here the 12th house whose 
sublord signifies fully the 3-9-12 houses, the Native goes abroad 
and settles there permanently. But if the lagna sublord signities 
3-9-72, it reveals that the Native going abroad is only a 
temporary event. Therefore, as the lagna sublord is connected 
to 3-39-12 by signification, the trip te abroad will take place during 
the conjoined dasa/bukthi periods of 3-9-1712. 


similarly, this lagna sublord Jupiter, will offer several results 
like one's status, health, the ability to act and so Gn, according 
to the connections he has to the relevant houses and offer the 
results during the conjoined dasa/Dbukthi periods of the houses 
so connected. 


Herein, it is also explained about the planets who run the 
dasa/bukthi. That is, the lagna sub lord indicating any one 
matter or several matters is akin to the ration card which 
indicates the quota fo supply any one item or several items. In 
the similar manner the lagna sub lord decides the quantum of 
favourable results or unfavourable results. This quantitative 
results proportioned are offered by dasa/bukthi lords connected 
to the lagna sub lord. Fer a said house one cr more than one 
planet may be connected. Out of these planets, which planets 
running a dasa/bukthi connected to that house, then in their 


112 


period, that event should take place, has to be confirmed. To 
confirm an event, one should have a clear picture’ of the very 
planet that runs the dasa/bukthi. How to arrive at a clear picture 
of the planet running the dasa/bukthi? It is explained through an 
example chart under. 


11115.26 
XII 15.51 Wi 19.21 
Moon 70.15 
Sun-Ven-Ven 
MI 12.30 Moon- Moon Ke Jup 4.16 
, - - V13, 
Ra Be MER-Moon-Sat IV 13.49 
Jup-Sat-Sat 
Ven-Sun-Ven 
Sat-Ven-Ven 
Ra-Ra-Sat 
Ke-Ae-MER 
Ven B.04 
1X15 76 } Mars 27.15 | vir 20.40 
Sat 15.10 | VIII 19.21 VI 15.51 
MER 16.04 
SUN - P.Palguni |si Jup - Pushya tst 
Moon - Rohini 4th Ven - J Palguni 4th 
Mars - Jyeshta 2nd Sat - Poorvashada 1st 
MER - Hasiha 2nd Ra - sathabisha 2nd 
Ke - Maka 4ih 


In this example chart, let us presume that Jupiter 
dasa-Mercury bukthi-Venus anthara is running. Now, what result 
dasa lord has to offer? Then, what results bukthi lord has to 
offer? Similarly, what result the anthara lord has to offer? The 
position of dasa/oukthi/anthara lords to offer a result, the HOW 
of it is explained. Readers before proceeding to read further are 
requested to make a birds eye view of the result to be offered by 
the dasa/bukthi/anthara lords, and keep a note of it. Then 
compare it with what is explained further for a cross check. 


113 


Dasa lord Jupiter is ia the star of Saturn to predominantly 

the results of houses 10-71-8. Along with that, Jupiter will 
insert the results of his level being posited in the 3rd, plus his 
houses 9 and 12. 


Jupiter will next align himself to a bukthi lord who is also 
well connected or connected in a very near manner to offer the 
same results of the dasa lord who operates 10-11-8-3-9-12 
houses. 


How Jupiter is connected to 10-11-8-3-9-12 ? 


Because he is deposited in the star of Saturn who is the 
owner of 10 and 11. Because Saturn stands in the 8th. Hence 
16-11-8. Jupiter stands in the 3rd house. Jupiter is owner of 
houses 9 and 12, In this way, Jupiter is connected to houses 
10-11-8-3-9-12. Then Jupiter posited in star of Saturn, is posited 
in one of the 9 subdivisions of it ie sub which is also Saturn. 
Therefore, Jupiter is under the full control of Saturn. Next, 
Mercury runs his bukthi - Mercury lord of 3 and 6 stands in 6th 
house, in the star of Moon (Hastha), and in one of the 9 
subdivisions of it + i.e. sub- deposited in Saturn sub. Therefore, if 
one has to ascertain the full strength ot a dasa lord, it should be 
studied as to in which star he is posited and in which subdivision 
of the said star i.e. sub he is deposited. In the same way, bukthi 
lord should be studied. 


This deep study, said above is not required for anthara lord, 
for the reason the dasa/bukthi lords decide the nature of an 
event maltler and in what manner it should be delivered, and 
then give the orders. Anthara lord will operate the order with the 


114 


help of his subordinate level planets (.e. Sookshama lord. This 
depends on the dasa/bukthi lords capability. 


But, if you compare this anthara lord arising out of 
dasa/buthi lords with that of the 12 bhavas - sub lords - you will 
get totally a different picture. 


The cuspal sub lord of a house is all powerlul the 
SUPREMO. Dasas/oukthi will change in the cyclic order of the 
120 year - Vimshothari dasa. Bul the cuspal position meaning 
sign-star-sub is ever constant and never will change. The owner 
of a sign is called sign lord and the cusp falls in which star, the 
owner of the star is called star lord, and in which sub division out 
of the 9 subdivision the cusp falls- that subdivision or part Le. 
sub is called the Sublord. This we have amply illustrated in 
previous pages. This sublord is otherwise called anthara level. 
As everyone should understand this sublord otherwise known as 
anthara tord without any ambiguity, explaining of it once again 
becomes important. 

Coming back to the subject proper, we find that Mercury, the 
bukthi lord in the sub of Saturn and Jupiter the dasa lord is also 
placed in the sub of Saturn. In the centre of this example chart, 
sublord positions are given. The exact and = constant 
degree-minute position of the cuspal sublords are given clearly 
in the previous pages. A look at it, will reveal every planet's 
degree/minute position ie. star and sub position. It is very 
difficult for every event + and every time to repeat the 
degree/minute level of planetary positions. Therefore, we say 
bukthi lord Mercury is deposited in the sub of Saturn which you 
will find as you see. Things as they are, both Jupiter dasa lord 
and Mercury bukthi lord though they are deposited in ditferent 


115 


Stars, they are placed in one of the 9 subdivisions ie. sub - in 
the sub of Saturn Hence, any event riutter to operate will be 
mainly related tc Saturn alone, because Saturn owning 10-11 
houses stands in 8th. Saturn is also a badhakasthanathipathi. 
Mercury aslordof 6th. Jupiter is lord of i2th. Therefore 
Saturn - Jupiter-Mercury combination will shape the matter to 
be known as accident, which will again be transformed to be 
known as an event and this event matter i.e. accident will be 
handed over to Anthara lord to execute the matter event Le. 
accig¢ent The anthara lord is Venus. Venus to this Mesha 
lagna Is lord of 2 and 7 posited in the star of Sun and Sun 
stands in the 5th in Venus star. Sun. lord of Stn signifies houses 
2-7. Therefore, the final conclusion of the analysis is that the 
cause of the accident to take place will be a vehicle is hereby 
finally confirmed. Houses 2-7 are Marakasthanas. lf the dasa 
lord Jupiter was not in the sub of Saturn but posited in the sub of 
5-9-4 or 3, and Mercury bukthi lord also was not in the sub of 
Saturn but in some other subs, then during their period accident 
will not take place. When no planet is posited in the sub of 
Maraka-badhaka lords, then the maraka-badhaka lords 
themselves will give the accident during their periods. Therefore, 
what one has to understand is. a planet in a star even though it 
may offer the results of the star lord, when that planet is placed 
in one of the 9 subdivisions i.e. sub, and if that sub is not 
favourable to execute the event matter, then that matter event 
cannot take place at all. 


For example, a Postman has to deliver a letter to one 
house, in a street. There are 9 houses in the street. The address 
and door no. contained in that letter indicates only one house. 
The Posiman even though he passes through that street, that 
one letter will be delivered only to that house containing the 


116 


name and door no., and theretore the Postman has nothing to 
do with other houses. So if you compare a street to a star, and 
that particular one house amongst the 9 houses- as Sublord, a 
will be easy to understand. 


Likewise, any planet to tell about any matter, that planet 
deposited in a star, if it has to offer a result in a full measure that 
planet in which star it is deposited of the 9 subdivisions cf that 
Star, the said planet has to occupy one subdivision i.e. sub, and 
that sub, only when favourable otfers the result in full measure. 


For example, 49-11 houses can bestow higher education to 
a Native. The 4th house whether one is destined for higher 
education or not. Once the 4th house declares that the Native is 
destined for higher education the dasa/bukthi lords completes 
that matter. Planets operating a dasa/bukthi even if they are 
posited in the stars of 4-9 lords, the subdivision part i.e. sub of 
the star when connected to 11th, dasa/bukthi lords connected to 
1ith alone can cotter higher education. If that sublord is 
connected to 3-12 houses, then education will have 
obstructions, interruption etc. As the 4th sublord has already 
assured higher education, the Native has to go through higher 
education. How? Even though bukthi lord is placed in 
unfavourable sub to cause breaks, when favourable sub position 
bukthi lords operate, education will be revived again. 


Once the 4th sublord declares that the Native is not 
destined for higher education, the dasa/bukthi lords even if 
deposited in favourable stars or subs they are powerless to offer 
the higher education similar to a ration stores man will not 
supply a provision Item if it is not mentioned in the ration card. 
Again te repeat, if the 4th bhava has no signification for the very 


117 


education and then the higher education also well connected to 
11th house any favourable dasa lord as planet signfficators of 
4th, will not give the education. What is said is not only to the 
4th bhava, but is applicable to all the 12 house matters. Without 
properly understanding all these, simply to say exalted, 
governance, ruling and so on, leads to failures in prediction. 
This is certain. _ 


The lagna bhava - ist house sub lord to ascertain the 
results of 1st house should be connected to houses explained 
as under- 


Long life 1-3-5-8-10 
To be popular 1-10-3-11 
To act on a decision 1-10-6-11 


To recoup trom diseases 1-5-3 
- Having acharming face 1-10-5-9-3-14 
1 ‘st sublord should be Venus. Depending on Chara-Sthira- 
Ubhaya 3-11 houses should be connected. 


mR ON a 


6. Short life 2-7 
Badhakasthana to be connected. 

f. For suicide 2-7-8 
Badhakasthana to be connected. 

8. Accidents 1-6-8-12-7 


Badhakasthana to be connected, 


Second house (bhava}- 


The matlers covered under second house are money 
matters, speech, family, second marriage, promissory note 
bonds, copper, diamond, individual earning, pearls, rathna, gold, 
cereals & pulses, ornaments. right eye, tongue, teeth, profits, 


thrift, spend-thrrit, luck, a clever speech, chit-chats, Maraka, 
memory power, to write a will in the name of wife, to protect 
others, bank affairs and so on. 


Ifthe sub lord of the second house is connected to houses 
2-6-1G-11, the Native will have a smooth and satisfactory 
position in all money matters. Here sublord means, the second 
bhava will rise on a particular degree and minute over a star. 
That star is made to 9 divisions. Of this 9 division, the Second 
bhava will rise in one division of the 9th, which is known as 
subdivision or sub, the lord of which is called the sublord- 
CGuspal sublord - Second cusp sublord. 


For example, Take it as Mesha lagna- Second house 
Rishaba rises in 24°15'. Then it means, it rises in Mrigasira star. 
The span of Mrigasira star ig 13°20' or 800 minutes. Mrigasira in 
Rishaba has a span of 6°40° and the remaining 6°40’ will be 
found in Mithuna Hasi. tn this Mrigasira star made of 9 unequal 
divisions, second house rising in 24715' in Rishaba- falls in 
Rahu division ie. sub division. Therefore, Rahu will be the 
sublord of the Second bhava (House} i.e. Seconn house cuspal 
sublord. 


Again it is explained by an example: 


Mrigasira in Rishaba commences at 23°20". Out of the 9 
divisions the first division is allotted to Mars itself, covering 
46'40". Next, the second division belongs to Hahu. Rahu has a 
total span of 120° (or 2°}. When we say second bhava falls in 
24°15'in Rishaba it means, the second cusp, crossing the Mars 
division, the first division rises in Rahu division, which is tr 
second division of the Mrigasira star. 


113 


Mrigasira commences in Rishaba at Palo 


1. First division allotted to Mars itself Of 4640 
24°06'40" 
2. Second division allotted to Rahu 2°00'00" 
26°06'40" 


That is from 24°06'40" to 26°06'40" - which is 2° or 120 
minutes relates te ARahu. Now, the Second bhava rises at 
24°15', which area belongs to Rahu and hence we say, that 
second house cusp sublord or second bhava sublord ts Hahu. 
As such when Rahu is deposited in the constellations of lord at 
houses 2-6-10-11 or conjoined with them or aspected by them, 
or occupying these said houses, then it means Rahu is 
connected to houses 2-6-10-17. This is because the nature of 
Rahu is, he offers the results by dominating the planets which 
aspect Rahu or conjoined with Rahu. As such, in coordination 
with lagna lord levels, Rahu the second house cuspal sublord 
improves the financial matters of the Native and also confirming 
it on a sound footing. Naturally as contirmed by Aahu cf a 
detinite financial level, the dasa-bukihi lords also will offer to the 
Native all matters about finance in a measure as destined and 
determined. What is explained of Rahu is equally applicable to 
other planets. But Rahu as it has of its own, a characteristic 
that differs from other planets, it will be explained separately, 
covering both Rahu and Kethu. 


As explained, the Second house cuspal sublord, be it Hahu 
or any other planet if they are connected to houses 2-6-10-11 
and at the same time in no way connected te houses 5 and 8, 
and with a strong lagna lord, then the Native's money matters 
increases to crores. His financial status improves, making him to 
lead a very prosperous life. If that sub lord without any 


120 


connection to 2-619-11 but connected only to 5-8-12 he will go 
down as a pauper, inspite of planets in exaltation or being 
owner, or stationed in thrikona or kendra, he will live as a 
pauper and nothing can change the destined course. 


Second house speaks of s'everal matters. We will take one 
of itfor example, and find out how it materialises. OT the second 
house matters, money matters attract our attention. When one 
gets an income or meet with an expenditure, through which 
source the income or the expenditure occurs, the timing of such 
income or the expenditure are explained with an example chart. 


111714-03 IV 12.41 
Sat 22-28 | Moon 13-47 


Star Rohini 
Maon Dasa bal 7-2-2 
Mii 5.53 Ke 2,16 
VIE 6.13 


Sun 23,54 X 12.41 
xX} 8.59 Ven 7.33 Mars 27.10 | VUII17.26 


MER 4.30 | Jup5.34 IX 14.03 


A careful and patient look at this example chart, one will find 
everything in a crystal clear manner. From this, one will also be 
able to understand how ignorant it is to talk about with planets 
as they are noted in the rasi chart. That is without taking into 
account the importance of houses but only with planets, their 
strength or debility, no purpose will be served while foretelling, 
is made clear. In this example chart, as at birth, the 12 houses 
cusps from Kumba to Makara, the respective house cusps 
falling in certain Deg-Min-Secs are written in Roman numerical 


12] 


as VII IV V.VEVIU,VULEX, XXL AIL Planetary positions at birth 
of the lagna rising are indicated in deg-minutes. Next , you will 
find the 8 blocks column. The second block tells the owner of 
the house (Bhava). Third column tells the starlord of the 
respective cusps rising in that star. The fourth column tells the 
one division lord out of the 9 divisions i.e subdivision lord that is 
what we call it as sublord of the cuspal starlord. If you desire to 
know how this subdivisions are made, please refer to previous 
pages, and calculate for yourself to arrive at the sublord 
positions. The fifth column gives the array of 9 planets. The sixth 
column shows the lerd of star occupied by the planet. The 
seventh column tells the lord of the star of the one division out of 
the 9 divisions of that star, the planet has occupied. The eighth 
column tells about each planet connected to certain houses. 
That is each planet has the connected houses under its control 
or dictates, 


Here, each one of the sublords of the respective 12 houses 
as they originated, are the SUPREMOS, te tell decisively at the 
very birth, the destiny of the Native in each and every walk of 
life. This is similar te the quota allotted of different consumer 
items in a ration card. SUPREMOS, the cuspal sublords 
determines the measures of the 12 bhavas. Just like the cuspal 
sublord determines the quantum otf a bhava, the planet sublords 
determines the strength of a planet. 


Inthe example charl, under column 5, the planets are found 
one below the other. Against each planet in column 6 and 7, 
their's star lord and sublord are mentioned. For example, 
Ssun-Sun is deposited in Venus star and Saturn sublord, 
indicating connection to houses 49-11-7 or controls those 
houses. That is Sun in Dhanus rasi, is deposited in 


122 


Poorvashada - Venus star rising at 23°54', meaning out of the 9 
divisions cf the Venus star, Sun is covering the. subdivision of 
gaturn. The Poorvashada star will have a general role to play 
even of the 9 divisions it has. But Sun is deposited in the Saturn 
division, of the 9 divisions of the Poorvashada star. Therefore, 
Sun when it dictates the 4-9 houses cof Venus, it will be 
favourable & fulfilled only when sublord Saturn is advantageous, 
the 4-9 house matters will be offered in afull measure. 


House 4 and 9 speaks of several matters in general. In 
particular the same 49 houses has to speak of higher 
education. While we study matters related to higher education, 
sun dasa or Sun bukthi is current, Sun connected to 4-9 houses 
will otter higher education, the sublerd if connected to houses 
4-9-11-10-2, then only, Sun can offer the higher education. But 
if Saturn is connected to houses 8-12-6-3, Sun, whom we have 
taken for analysis having connection to houses 4 and 9, this Sun 
can never offer the higher education. 


Therefore, on this basis alone, we have to judge the 
strength of a planet, or its inability and not on the basis of 
exaltation, debility, ownership and so on which judgement Is 
always an ignorant approach. For this reason, the levels of the 
12 houses, the strength of the planets are to be studied to 
arrive at the proper results. Any other method other than what is 
explained, are helpless, unclear, and will be of an unintelligent 
application which goes to say that a foretelling by a parrot is far 
better. 


Gn the basis so far explained, as per the example birlh 
charl, so much details were explained to make one understand 
very clearly as to when a Native will have income or expenses 


123 


and through.which source this income and expenditure will be. 
Patient analysis will be similar to seeing one's face in a clean 
mirror. The reader should never get any confusion. With this 
view as base, | have changed the useless methods to useful 
ones, so thai the general public will also be benefited. Further 
my view is ta see that astrology also is respected. On certain 
subject matters while analysis, seemingly confusion like 
observations are made clear io get rid of all or any confusion. 
When analysis is handled the way | pui it, truths that emerge are 
surprising. Astroscience gets its new life and no one can belittle 
Ht. Even those who talk with a loose tongue, will have a second 
thought, change their mind and approach the subject proper. 


In this example chart second bhava falls in Meena at 71°26". 
Here the sign {bhava} lord is Jupiter. 11°26' falls in Uthirabadhra 
star, whose lord is Saturn. Of the 9 divisions of this Saturn star, 
11°26' belongs to Moon division. This Moon is stationed in its 
own star Rohini and of the 9 divisions of Rohini, Moon is tn 
Rahu division. Now Moon lord of 6 for Kumbha lagna, occupies 
the 4th. Rahu instead of Saturn and as ageni of Saturn, gets 
the power to houses 1 and 12. Rahu is in the star of 
Mars-Dhanishta. Mars is lord of 3-10. Therefore,. Moon 
predominantly dictates houses 6 and 4, aspected by Jupiter, 
lard of 2 and 41. Venus, lord of 4 and 9 is also aspecting the 
Moon. The spread of Venus aspect will not be a maich to the 
spread of Jupiter aspect, for the reason Jupiter is an Outer 
Planet, whereas Venus is an Inner planet, below earth. 
Therefore the light of Jupiter by its aspect over Moon, will be 
very beneficial, Moon sublard of the second bhava, receiving 
aspect from Jupiter, gets connected to houses 2 and 11, Now 
Moon IS connected to houses 46-2-11 and at the same time, 
Moon is in no way connected to 5-8-12. Hence the sublord of 


124 


the second bhava has determined that, this Native will lead a 
prosperous life, having a comfortable financial flow. If the same 
sublord Moon with no connection to 2-6-11, but if connected to 
houses 5-8-12, the Native will not have any financial flow at any 
time, by an exalted or ownership dasa period. During the dasa 
of 2-6-10-11 lords, financial increases may be there of a very 
insignificant nature. At this juncture when bukthi lords of 5-8 join 
hands with dasa lord even this insignificant flow of money will 
not happen. 


This chart at birlh cormmences with Moon dasa ending at the 
age of 8. Life in general will be happy but this age is not a one to 
earn money by himself. Next is Mars dasa for 7 years, Mars is In 
the star of Jupiter, lord of 2-11, and is in the sub of Venus lord of 
4-9. This will give only education. Mars, star wise, signifying 
2-11, will give all the support required for education. Next is 
Rahu dasa commencing at the age of 15. Rahu becomes agent 
for 1-12 and is deposited in the star of Mars signifying 3-10, and 
in the sub of Kethu who is connected to 3-10. This 3-10 will give 
4 professional course type of education. Again 3-10-1-12 will 
make the link to foreign places. Kethu by its 6-7 connections will 
make the Native serve for some time a paid job and thereafler 
have a profession of his own. Rahu dasa running for 18 years, 
Rahu will coordinate with such bukthi lords, who in turn are 
capable of shaping events. During Rahu dasa - Rahu bukthi, the 
Native will go abroad for the reason Rahu has the power to 
operate 3-12. Next, Jupiter bukthi, Jupiter in the star of Saturn 
gets ihe power to operate 1-12 predominantly. Jupiter is in the 
sub of Mercury, the owner of 5-8. Therefore, Jupiter bukthi 
cannot give an income by earning. To the contrary, the 
expenditures will be on the higher side. Next is Saturn bukthi. 
saturn is in the star of Venus signifying mainly 4-9 and Saturn in 


1256 


its own sub, Saturn ts stationed in the 3rd house. That is, Saturn 
is connected to houses 4-9-3-1-12. Therefore, during Saturn 
bukthi the Native proceeds abroad. Next is Mercury bukthi. 
Mercury is in the star of Kethu, operates houses 6 and 7? 
predominantly. Mercury as lord of houses 5 and § and 
connected to houses 6 and 7, and being deposited in Moon sub, 
with Moon in the 4th indicates that the Native alongwith his 
studies, will learn several techniques of a profession. And in this 
learning process Mercury involves the Native to make 
necessary expenditures. Next is Kethu Bukthi. Kethu is in his 
own star and in the sub of Venus. Therefore, Kethu bukthi also 
keeps the Native still in the learning line, that is education. Next 
is Venus bukthi. Venus is in the star of Saturn. Venus now will 
mainly operate the houses 3-1-12-9. Venus is in the sub of 
Kethu. Kethu governs 6 and 7 houses. Therefore, the Native wilt 
go for a paid job in the foreign itself. 6th is the paid job. 7th is 
the own job. As Kethu is within the boundaries of 6th, the paid 
job will be the first, the Native has to take up. Next is Sun bukthi. 
sun also is in the star of Venus to operate houses 4 and 9. Sun 
is in the sub of Saturn, to operate 3-1-12 houses. Therefore, the 
Native continues to be in the paid job at abroad, but the income 
will not be upto the expectations. For any Native, not subjected 
to 2-6-11, the other houses cannot give a higher flow of income. 
Nexl is Moon bukthi, connected to 2-6-1171. Moon is in the sub of 
Rahu. Rahu acting as agent for 1-12, operates to give the 
results of houses 3 and 10. Therefore during Moon bukthi the 
Native gets a good flow of income, besides name and fame 
along with several other beneficial retuims. Through what source 
the higher flow of money, is in the offing. Moon lord of 6th 
deposited in his own star, predominantly operates the 6th 
house, which means the Native gets a high flow of income 
through service in the paid job. Moon stationed in the 4th is in 


126 


the sub of Rahu who is connected to houses 3-10. That is the 
Native aparl from his routine paid job, after his 4actory work or 
office hours, indulges to earn by his self effort at his home also. 
Next is Mars bukthi. Mars is in the star of Jupiter lord of 2-11, 
and is in the sub of Venus lord of 49, which shows Mars is 
connected to 2-4. This 2-4 connection during Mars bukthi, 
makes the Native a foreign return and reach his Native country. 
Here again, he will earn a lot of money through his own self 
eifort. When we say that the Native will earn a lot during Rahu 
dasa Mars bukthi, Mars bukthi will be running for 1 year and 18 
days. Will money flow daily? Certainly not. Mars bukthi is set to 
offer a higher tlow of income for the reason Mars is connected to 
houses 2-10-11. But at the same time, in the same Mars bukthi 
expenditures will also be more. It is here, your careful 
attention 1s drawn. Dasa-bukthi-anthara, each according to 
their levels will make the money to flow in or create 
expenditures. The Dasa-bukthi-anthara lords are at a level 
helped by starwise and subwise positions to offer the flow of 
money or involve in expenditure. There Is another level 
predominantly supporting thls Dasa-bukthi-anthara lords. 
This level has so far been not explained, for the reason, when 
so much is read to be reckoned at a given time, Reader may 
find it confusing. That is why | am explaining one by one, step 
by step so that Headers can understand cleady. 


Dasa-bukthi-anthara lords act according to a subject matter. 
Thereafter to complete that event matter, other than these 
Dasa-bukthi-anthara lords, there are three persons. they are the 
Sun Moon and Lagna transits. More than a month bul less than 
a year, Sun transit is to be found out, correspondingly supported 
by Moon transit and Lagna transits on the sensitive points of ithe 
Zodiac, to select the day, when the event should take place. For 


TZ 


less than 2/7 days Moon transit is to be found out, 
correspondingly with Lagna trans, to select the day of the 
event. For within 24 hours any event to happen, study by Lagna 
transit alone is enough. For events to take place in a few hours 
within 24 hours, alongwith Lagna transit, Rasi Lords in which 
Lagna crosses should be studied. For events to take place 
within a few minutes along with Lagna transit, transitted Rasi 
lord and the 2 14 stars in that Rasi should be judged. In this 
example chart, in a broad sense it Is said, during Hahu Dasa 
Mars bukthi, the flow of money will be there. Still further, you 
can tell that during such and such anthara periods, income to 
flow. But during the intervals of time we should be able to tell on 
what date, and at what time the flow of money will be there, for 
which prediction alone, one has to analyse all the above said 
meticulous details. Otherwise, if an approximate time alone is to 
be said, it is enough if you analyse upto Dasa-bukthi-anthara 
levels. If one has to analyse the date and time of the birth of a 
child, then our analysis should be further, to the transit levels of 
oun-Moon and Lagna, So far explained is only to make one, to 
understand about the 2nd bhava of a Native relevant to the flow 
of money. Likewise timing of child birlh and marriage will also be 
dealt, clearly in the coming pages. 


Now the Second bhava relevant to money matters if one 
has to pay to the Native, then, cn what date he will come with 
money or the money to reach the hand of the Native, tor such 
an analysis, how to find out the Sun, Moon and Lagna transits. 
The person to pay might have informed that he pay within 
cerlain days. In that case we should know about that said days, 
whether it is more than a month or within 2? days. Accordingly, 
if it is more than a month, Sun transit connected to 2-6-11 


128 


houses onthe Rasi, the sensitive point of the Zodian, and atthe 
same time Moon transit also in a Rasi connected to 2-6-11 
houses, and again at the same time Lagna also moving in a 
Hasi connected to houses 2-6-1711, during which transit, the said 
flow of money, will reach the hands of the Native. If it is within 
2? days, we need not follow the Sun transit, but only the Moon 
and Lagna transit which is enough. The HOW of it is explained. 
In this chart, during Rahu Dasa Mars bukthi the flow of money 
will be there in a foregone conclusion, When the Native will get 
the money alone is our next analysis. Rahu Dasa Mars bukthi 
Mars anthara itself is the most suited for the analysis. Because 
Mars is connected to 2-10-11 houses. Mars anthara will run for 
22 days and 3 gatika (72 minutes}. Hence this Mars anthara 
period of 22 days falls within the 27 days limits. Therefore to 
observe the Sun transit carries no meaning, or simply does not 
arise. Moon and Lagna transit alone need to be studied. It is 
Kumbha Lagna. Jupiter is lord of 2-11. As Mars is in Jupiter star, 
Mars signifies 2 and 11, Besides Moon Is lord of 6. No planet is 
in the stars of Moon. Therefore, Moon is the full significator of 
the 6th house. Next Kethu occupies the 6th house. Mercury Is in 
the star of Kethu. Nexl Kethu occupies the 6th house. Mercury 
is in the star of Kethu. Therefore Mercury is also connected to 
the 6th house. Again therefore Jupiter, Mars, Moon, Mercury 
Kethu are connected to houses 2-6-10-11. For other levels of 
probe, you need not go deep as explained above. When lords of 
2-6-10-11 are in the stars of other planets other than desired, 
they become strong or weak. Under such circumstances, 
imporlance need not be given for Moon transit. It is enough if 
Moon is connected to certain houses. Such Moon's connection 
can be made use of. As accordingly, houses 2-6-10-11 are 
covered by planets Jupiter, Mars, Moon, Mercury and Kethu by 
their connections. Hence, till the end of Mars anthara of 22 


days, as much as possible we should see that Moon is 
connected to houses 2-6-10-11. Lagna is Kumbha. Rasi is 
Cancer where Punarvasu star is found. Therefore, when Moon 
transits Punarvasu star in Moon sign or Virgo sign the house of 
Mercury, Moon transiting in Hastha star and Mars sub, day, that 
day, will be found to be Thursday or Monday or Tuesday or 
Wednesday. On one of the said days, Lagna transit should also 
be in Karkata or Kanya or Mithuna or Vrischika which are 
connected to 2-6-10-11. And lagna should be formed in, either 
Karkata or Kanya or Mithuna or Vrischika. Why so many signs 
(Rasis) are selected. Because by the time Moon's position falls 
under the advantageous position, Lagna will be moving much 
faster. Therefore, acccording to that given level- that is Moon 
transit level and the lagna transit level, when united, the Native 
gets the money on hand, before the completion of the lagna 
transit (on the sensitive point of the zodiac). 


In our day to day experience, though we find no astrologer 
tells the day and date of an event, for the reason, it is not 
customary, and in this case the day-date and time, as to when 
money reaches the hand of the Native. But when our analysis is 
subjectd to a scientific method, based on sublord theory and 
Ruling Planets, we can pinpoint the day-date and time of an 
event. To make our Readers understand how a step by step 
analysis has to be made, so much | have explained. Furlher, 
this type of analysis is Very-Very essential for child-birth, 
marriage and so on. This scientific and step by step analysis, 
made are explained in the coming pages. Several matters of the 
second house, if analysed as explained above, any 
matter-event that is under the probe, can be predicted very 
clearly to the last minute. 


130 


For Second house matters, sublord of the second house 
should be connected to houses as explained below. 


1. To amass wealth 2-6-10-11. 

2. second Marriage 2-/. Sublord should be Mercury and 
connected in any manner to a dual sign. 

3. For increase of Ornaments, Jewels, Bonds 2-6-10-3-11-8 

4. To incur loss 5-8-12 

5. To have profits 2-6-11 

6. Eyes to be healthy 3-10-141-2. Here sublord should not be 
connected to badhakasthana. 

?. Vak siddhi 2-10-1-6-11. Sublord should be Mercury or 
Jupiter. 


Third house 


Third house tells us about brother or sister, youngsters, 
letter & postal communications, Telegrams, meeting of persons, 
messengers, brokers, memory power, rumours, short travels, 
partition, to carry tales of others, change of residence, change in 
job, cure of the disease, evil results to mother, agreements, 
boldness in any underlakings, books and_ publications, 
magazines, hawker, street seller, moving up and down, 
unsteady in a place, all movements by cycle, rail, tram, short air 
travel and so on. 


lf the third sublord ig Mercury and connected te houses 
3-11, one will be leading popular in share market. If connected 
to 3-7-11 houses, he will be running a Newspaper business. If 
connected to 3-6-11 houses, he will be a share-broker. If the 
third sublord in Saturn, and connected to 3-10-11 one will be 


131 


selling oil or a similar thing like kerosene as a street seller by 
hawking. 


lf the third sublard is Venus connected to 3-5-8-11, one will be 
selling clothes, on a cycle by hawking. 


If the third sublord is Mars and connected to 3-5-8-11, one 
will be selling hot tea or vegetables as a street seller. If the third 
sublord ts Jupiter and connected to houses 3-5-8-17 one will be a 
hawker selling sweets, coconuts, fruits. All the planets as third 
sublord as said above are connected to houses 3-2-10-11-5, 
one will do the same selling job as a street seller, but more ina 
dignified manner and earn more profits. To repeat again, for a 
clear say, that if the sublord of the third when connected to 
houses 3-2-6-10-11, one will do selling the same hawking way 
but in a dignified manner and earn good profits. If the third 
sublard is Sun, it will be selling of utensils. 


lf the third sublord is Moon, it will be selling Soda, 
cooldrinks, fruits, flowers, chillies etc. 


If the third sublord is Mercury, one will be selling sports 
materials, second hand books, purchase of disposable old 
paper etc. 


lf the third sublord is Venus, one will hawk cut piece clothes 
or plastic materials. 


lf the third sublord is Saturn, purchase of discarded iron and 
steel materials. Collecting waste materials from dust bin, or 
even rotten materials. 


132 


lf the third sublord is Rahu/Kethu, they will act for the lord 
of the house they occupy and accordingly their-work is to be 
judged. 


All the above said sublords, if connected to improving 
houses 2,3,6,10,11, what work they do will be dignified. If 
connected to houses 3,5,8,11, the work they do will not be 
dignified to look at. 


Now in a Native’s chart, 10th bhava sublord has already 
determined a profession. That to be a dignified one, that is 
connected te 2-10-11, during the dasa of lord of third, What 
results it has to offer will be the same linked to the third sublord, 
signifying houses 3-6-10-11-2, to make the Native do his 
profession in a dignified way like exporls to foreign. or as a 
wholesale distributor according to the nature of different planets. 
These planets arrange for the dignified job, the job as destined 
by 10th sub, when these planets join hands with the 10th sub 
and in its area of operation, make the Native do his work in a 
dignified way. 


When both the 10th sublord and the 3rd sublord are weak. 
the same job ts carried out by the Native through hawking on 
head loads or carried on cycles, pushcarts ete. 


Each and every planet is assigned under it several types of 
profession. Planets are nine but types of profession are in lakhs 
in these modern days. Therefore planets indicating ditferent 
types of jobs, a few are mentioned as examples. What we are 
discussing is not the-selling part but how this selling is already 
distined by 10th sub to be of a dignified type or less dignified or 
not dignified. The lord of the 10th bhava, the starlord of the 10th 


i133 


cusp has indiciated the nature of the profession. At this level, 
the lord of the 3rd house, while running its dasa, the same type 
of profession to that of the 10th, will move to operate the 
matters. Previous ie. prior to the dasa of lord of the 3rd, a 
profession as indicated by the 10th sub and according to its 
position, the Native must have been sitting in a Textile shop and 
dealing in textile materials. When the third bouse is connected, 
the same textiles business, is now done by exports to foreign or 
as wholesale and so on. Likewise, all profession is subjected to 
happy levels, all acts will be dignitied and also with profits. Ifthe 
10th sub and, the third house, and the 3rd sub all when weak, 
all actions will not be dignified, subjected to several shrinks, and 
ultimately with no profits. What all explained in the above lines 
are not only to tell about profession or to speak of dignified or 
not dignified but to comprise the 3rd bhava which has several 
matters of its own to offer but in accordance with the sublord of 
the third Bhava which will vary from Native to Native, to 
culminate for a dignified way or not a dignified way, profit or 
loss. 


From thig example chart, one can find how the Third house 
levels/matters are formed/getting shaped. For Kumbha lagna, 
Mesha will be the 3rd house. Mars js lord of the 3rd house. Third 
house rises in Mesha at 14°-03'. The sublord is also Mars. Mars 
is in the star of Jupiter and in the sub of Venus meaning, 
connected to 2-11-9-3-10. Therefore, the third house has 
emerged very strongly. The 10th house falls in Vrischika at 
12°-41'. Here too, i.e. 10th house cuspal sublord ts also Mars. 
Lord of Vrischika Rasi is Mars. In it the star lord is Saturn. 
Mars-Saturn makes Engineer, Mechanics, Lawyers, Doctors 
and several other profesicnals. Therefore, we can beldly confirm 


134 


that the profession of the Native is Engineeering, Now the lord 
of the 3rd or Planets deposited in the stars of the lord of the 3rd, 
runs the dasa. During this dasa, the Native moves outside his 
Headquarlers and does this Engineering job. The 3rd house is 
also for communication. Here, this Engineering profession the 
Native undertakes will be something like T¥, Computers etc 
where his personal attention is required. Therefore, the Native 
will Visit several factories as a Service Engineer or as a 
Mechanic who goes around for an after sales service, Now the 
Readers can understand how the 3rd house is formed to fit a 
Native under its fold. As the 3rd cuspal sublord and the 10th 
cuspal sublord is one and the same Mars, and as it is connected 
to 2-11-3-10, the profession will be both dignified and profitable. 
There is no doubt about it. What is now explained about this 3rd 
house, all cther matters that are to be read for and from 3rd 
house will offer well, the good and favourable results during the 
relevant dasa/bukihi in an orderly manner. 


Fer third house matters, the sublord of the third should be 
connected to houses as shown- 


1. To run newspaper etc 3-11-10 

2. To be a broker 3-10-6-11 

3. For journey 3-12-1 

4. From light to heavy vehicles 3-12-11-1 

5. To make contracts, agreements 3-1-11-7 

6. For a successtul negotiation 3-11 
sublerd should be Mercury or Jupiter. 

7. Appointments orto meet a person 1-3-9-11 -7 

8. For purchase of Radio or TV or other electrical goods 
3-12-5-1. 


Fourth House 


The Fourih house diflers trom the third house In the sense, 
it is of a static type, because it is the lowest point of heavens 
called Nadir -that is opposite Zenith also called mid heavens. 
Fourth house is not an active one or a changing ore, Oropped 
Dead is one way to understand about this fourth house. The 
fourth house denotes about one's Mother, education, one's 
house-residence, the graveyard, land, gardens, curious secret 
life, vehicles repaired but not roedworthy or operational, 
wells-tanks-lakes, schools, water, Milk caves, ancient 
monuments, public buildings, mines, vehicles, stolen properties 
kept hidden, secret literatures, to throw blame on others or 
character assassination and so on. Anything on earth, which are 
of immovable nature is covered under this fourth house. 


Fourth sublord, when connected to 49-10-11-2-5, the 
Native will have higher education, land ancestral properties, 
vehicles, affectionate and heipfut-mother and so on to be proud 
of the possession. If also connected to 3-11-12 houses, sublord 
it Saturn, one will have cycle and similar ones where manual 
effort is required. Sublord if Mars, it will be a two wheeler that 
are power operated. Sublord if Venus or Jupiter, it will be four 
wheelers. Sublord if Mercury and deposited in the sub of 
Venus or Sublord if Venus and deposited in the sub of 
MERCURY and connected to favourable houses it will be 
aeroplane. Sublord # Moon and deposited in the sub of Venus, it 
will be ship. This is how different types of vehicles indicated are 
to be judged. But alongwith this, one should, without fail study 
the strength of Lagna lord. The Lagna lord should be very 
strong. The fourth sublord in no way connected te the fourth but 
well connected to 3-11-12 houses and without any aspect trom 


136 


saturn or Mars. At the same time, conjoined planets must be 
supporting. Then only, one can have vehicles like 
aeroplane,ship etc. Most imporiant is third sublord should have 
no connections to houses 4-8, but well connected to houses 
3-11-12-5-7-10, then also one will have aeroplane, ship etc. All 
said, for all these, Lagna lord, 10th bhava, 11th bhava and 2nd 
bhava should be very strong. The 4th sublord if connected to 4th 
bhava, one will have education, land, gardens, ancestral 
properlies and so on, and to say of vehicles, they though 
repaired cannot be put on the road, as they are sick forever. 
Just as we say of a person - medically alive and physically 
dead. Finally, it will reach the tinsel shop, condemned as rusted 
and sold by kilo value. Our argument is not that those who have 
education and wealth will not have vehicles. For vehicles, not 
only third house, but sublords of houses 2-6-10-11 must be 
connected to houses 3-11-12, without any unfavourable aspect, 
and at the same time Lagna lord must be strong. From Lagna 
lord to the respective Bhavas and planets through their correct 
significations, people posses vehicles as destined, that is 2,4 or 
mufti wheelers and even ship or aeroplane. 


Ot several matters of the fourth house, one is education, 
which will take up tor our study, the how of ft, the level of 
education one will have, say higher education, if and when the 
planets and connected bhavas are at favourable levels. Next, is 
what type of education, is explained through an example. 


One to have higher education, sublord of the fourth should 
be well connected to houses 4-9-11, and with no connection at 
all to houses 8-12. At the same time, the fourth sublord should 
not be subjected to aspects from Saturn and Mars. If the fourth 
sublord is either Saturn or Mars, and aspects by Saturn or Mars, 


137 


then no harm about ft but should be connected to houses 
4-39-11, Jupiter should aspect by fifth or ninth aspect and not by 
7th aspect When all these conditions are met, one wil have the 
higher education of the highest order, the Native emerging as an 
authonty on the subject whatever it may be. The fourth sublord 
and planet level connections, to fourth house alone, will give an 
education upto Intermediate level only. When connected to Sth 
house, higher education is offered. Again, when we talk of 
education the fourth sublord and the 9th sublord, at one and the 
same time should be connected to houses 4-39-11. Ninth sublord 
when connected tc 211 and no connecticn to 4, or 4th sublord 
signifying 4-9 houses and no connection to 11th, or if the 4th 
sublord signifying houses 411 and no connection to 9th, under 
such circumstances one can never have the higher education. 
The Native in pursuit of higher education, will not reach the goal. 


In this example chart, relevant to the position of the 4th 
bhava, what level of education one will have is explained. In this 
charl, 4th bhava cusp falls at 12°41’ in Rishaba, bhava lord is 
Venus. Starlord is Moon and the sublord is Venus itself. That is 
in Rohini star, out of the 9 division of ft, 12°4' cuspal position 
falls in Venus division. It is Venus subdivision, that is known as 
Venus in the sublord. This sublord Venus is in the star of Saturn, 
signifying houses 1-12-3, and Venus by himself is lord of 4 and 
9 and is stationed in the 9th bhava. This Venus though in the 
10th sign (Vrischika) but well within the limits of the 9th bhava, 
and therefore we say it is stationed in the 9th. Now, Venus in the 
Sth is in the sub of Kethu. Therefore, Venus signifies houses 
1-12-3-9, and stands in the sub of Kethu. Here, Kethu belongs 
to 6 and 7 and is no way connected to the 8th house that could 
harm the higher education. 


138 


Please observe carefully without any confusion. That is- 4th 
sublord is Venus. 


a) Venus as It is in the star of Saturn- connection to houses 
1-3-12 has come in. 

b) Venus is in Anuradha- the Saturn star- of the 9 divisions of It 
Venus is in the Kethu division. As Kethu is lord of 6 and 7, 
Venus is connected to houses -_ 6 and ?. 

c) As Venus Is stationed in the 9th - connected to 9th house. 

d) Venus by himselt is the owner of 4th house - Therefore, 

connected to 9th house. 


That is why, we say that Venus is connected to houses 
1-12-3-9-4-6 and 7. 4th sublord when connected to 11th house, 
only then higher education, will find a satistactory improvement. 
That is, as already explained, 49-11 houses should be 
interconnected in any or all possible manner at one and the 
same time. In this chart 4th sublord is connected to 4-9, and, 
even though not directly connected to 11th, but has its 
connection in an indirect manner. Then how? Jupiter lord of 11 
is in Vrischika at 5°34". Venus is also stationed in Vrischika at 
7°33’. Jupiter and Venus are distanced at 1°59' in the same 
star. (7°33' - 5°34' = 1°59'). i have already explained about 
Planets conjoing within 2°(120 minutes) and how they help 
each other. Here the sublord Venus is at 1°59’ with lord of 
11th, Venus gets the connection to 11th house. Therefore, as 
Venus is simultaneously connected to 4-9-1141 houses, the 
Native is sure to achieve higher education. On this basis of 
planetary tie up, any Native will reach upto Ph.D. According to 
the nature and characteristics of the planets one is destined to 
emerge either as Engineer or IPS or IAS and so on. The 
emergence of a cadre like IAS and so on will take place during 


139 


the respective dasa/Dukthi. At times, when the 4th sublord its 
very favourable, and when the Native is passing through 
unfavourable dasa/oukthi which are signifying 8-12 houses, 
relevant only to education, the Native fails in examinations 
carrying arrears. But they will again appear for the exams and 
come out successfully. When the 4th sublord itself is afflicted, 
failing in one examination, the very education comes, to a 
grinding halt. 


Under such circumstance, lords of 4 and 9 exalted, and 
these lords whether it is Mercury or Jupiter, in terms of eduction 
the planets certainly cannot offer any result. Certain birth charts, 
when analysed for education, planetary set ups, when found as 
explained above, having exalted Mercury and or Jupiter, a view 
will be expressed accounting for the exalted planets, and only 
because of the exalted planets, such views will only be at the 
imagination level, but in reality the true position is certainly not 
so. Now the Tamil Poem- 


See Giri and fourth 
He, Giri, Four and Thrikona reaching Giri 
Education improves abundantly. 


What is read, understood and applied from the poem, when 
subjected to a practical level, this poem has tailed to give the 
desired results. 


Regarding education, the foreteller should have a clear 
understanding of cerlain fundamentals. They are- 


1. What ever may be the lagna, the foreteller should first 
study and judge the 4th bhava and the sublord. 


140 


2. Fourth bhava sublord may be any planet, and that sublord 
should be deposited in the stars of lord of 4-9-11 or the house it 
occupies or conjoined with other planets within 2° level or the 
sublord stationed in one of the 9 divisions of that star, that 
sublord signifying 4-9-71 houses - all these levels when found 
connected to 4-9-11 houses, the Native is sure to have higher 
education. | have made it very clear. | am very assertive about 
it. 


3. Fourth sublord tt Sun and Mars, makes the Native a 
Doctor. If Venus- industrials, textiles. If Mercury - Lawyers, 
auditors, computer engineer. if Juptter-teachers. lawyers, IAS. If 
Moon- Chemicals line. If Saturn- Reasearch workers. If 
Rahu/Kethu, the house they occupy, acting as agents for those 
house lords, will offer the line of education accordingly. In this, 
certain planets as they conjoin, or as per their aspect, and 
planets in one division of the division of another planet, all these 
happen to be different planets, certain changes will be there. 


4, lf the 4th sublord is Saturn signifying or connected to 
3-8-5-12 houses, one will learn Vedas and Manthras. 


5. lf the 4th sublord is Venus one will learn acting (cine 
field}. If Mars, he will learn music. If Mercury-Pouranic studies. If 
Moon, he will practice Violin, Veena. If Sun, he will undergo 
training to learn and practice repariring of machines. 


6. lf the 4th sublord, houses 3-8-5-12 and the 4th house 
itself are connected, one will study upto $.S.L.C and then learn 
a line of studies as mentioned in para 5. 


7. lf the sublord of the 4th is Mars or Saturn and if 
connected houses 8-12, the Native will not go to school at all. 


8. lf the sublord of the 4th, if connected only to 4-9 and the 
lagna be a Sthira rasi, the Native will stop his education at the 
Sth standard level. lf connected to 4-9-11, the Native will be a 
degree holder, but under the pass (class) marks. 


9. Ifthe sublord of the 4th, if connected to 4-5-11, the Native 
will study in a Veda Patasala or team the ari of acting in the 
cinefield at the National Film Institute of India. If the sublord of 
the 4th is Mercury, the Native will learn to play Pipe type musical 
instruments like flute, Nadaswaram, clarinet, saxaphone etc in 
the Music college or atthe Gurukula schools. 


16. if the sublord of the 4th is Mars, and connected to 
4-5-11, the Native will learn the martial arls like Karathe, Judo 
and so on. 


11. If the sublord of the 4th is Venus and connected to 
4-5-11, the Native will learn tailoring for a profession under the 
vocational training courses. 


For 4th house maliers, the sublord of the 4th should be 
connected to houses- 


1. Higher education & highly qualified 4-9-11. 

2. To construct a house 4-11-12 with Mars connection. 
3. To purchase a constructed house 4-6-9-1-72. 

4. To purchase land 4-11-12 sublord should be Mars. 
5. Lower level education 4-11. 

6. To have ancestral properties 4-9-11 -6-1. 


7. To deposit money in the Bank 42-11-10. 

8. To do ajob in a permanent place 4-10. * 

9. Always sick 1-4-6, Forthis lagna sublord should signify 4-6 
10. Buildings constructed to let on rent. 4-11-12-6- 10. 


Likewise, there are several types of matters still to be 
analysed irom the 4th house. College and above college level, if 
one desires to have a higher education, the 4th sublord should 
at one and the same time has to signify or connected to houses 
49-11, when only according to the nature and charactersitics of 
Planet one will turn out to be an Engineer or a doctor or an IAS 
or MBA or CA, lawyer, auditor, research workers, Scientists and 
so on. If the planetary set ups are contrary to what all said 
above any number of planets found exalted, or by ownership, 
stationed Trikona or Kendra or having Parivarihana or even the 
lords of houses 49-11 are exalted or the lord of speech if 
exalted, all of them, on as is where basis, will offer the results, 
for other level matters only, but never to the level of higher 
education, and if the foreteller make use of them relevant to 
higher education, the very purpose of foretelling will not be 
served. Therefore, trom a binh char, ff one wishes to tell 
decisively a view regarding higher education, this view should 
strictly fail in line with what | have explained in the above paras. 
Then the success is 100%. The general public is benefited. 
Astrology as a Science also finds its place of pride. 


5th house (bhava) 


The Sth house contains several matters. If all the matters 
are to be dealt, a separate booklet has to be brought out 
Therefore, certain salient points are dealt herewith. Generally 
each of the 12 bhavas contain several matters, which can be 


143 


dealt only through separate volumes. Therefore, what is 
common and very impertant to the general public alone is 
explained. 


5th house denotes child birth, the ability to think, increase or 
decrease in the power of one's intelligence. That is, if the Sth 
house is strong, the ability to think and the power of intelligence 
will be high and if the 5th house weak the power of intelligence 
very poor, and the Native may, even become insane. Further 
5th house denotes love affairs, gambling like bet in races, 
lotlery, casino matters and so on. 


Cinema, drama, acting, rape, respectability, chaste, to learn 
manthras, profit to others, luxury life, negating service(paid job}, 
to lose a job etc. are all covered under the Sth house. 5th house 
when connected to certain houses brings immense richness. 
And when connected to cerlain houses results in failure in all 
fronts leading to one's downfall and disgrace. 5th house tells 
about cure of a disease, or no disease at all. Therefore, if 5th 
house is well fortified the results are favourable and desirable. 
When afflicted. the results are both unfavourable and 
undesirable. Im this context, it was explained that one's power of 
intelligence will be strong or weak. 


For example, if a boy is attracted to a girl, then it turns outto 
be a love affair and ends in a marriage. To the level of a love 
affair, unless the 5th bhava level is so well set, this love affair 
cannot end in marriage. That is Sth sublord should signify 
houses 7 and 11. Please see the example chart. 


144 


Now let us presume a Aishaba lagna, Native, has the 5th 
bhava falling on 6°10". Here it is explained whether this 5th 
bhava at 6°10' level, will indulge to make a love affair or not. 


Lagna 
12.53 
Ke 13.11 


House Ictd MEA 


Star lord Sun 
Of the 3, 
1 subdivision MER 


Ra 12.11 
VIl12.53 
MER 2.05° 


VI 10.41 
Sun 5.21 


In this example chart 5th cusp falls in Kanya on 6° 10°. 

5th house owner - Mercury 

Sth cusp stands on Uthirapalguni star- lord of the star - Sun. 
Of the 9 divisions of Uthirapalguni star - one subdivision 
stands on - Mercury (sublord) 


That is in Kanya Uthirapalguni star from the 


commencing of Kanya 0°- 1°13°20" 


belongs to Rahu subdivision- 11320" 
Next 1°13'20" upto 3°00'00" belongs to 
Jupiter subdivision 1°46'40° 
Next 3°60°00" upto 5°6'40" belongs to 
Satur "subdivision 2°06" 40" 
5°06'40" 


145 


From 5°Q6'40" upto 7°00'00" belongs 
to Mercury subdivision 20" 


Total 7°O0'00" 


3°20' of Uthirapalguni star will be in Simha and the 
remaining 10° of Uthirapalguni will be found in kanya. Of the 9 
divisions of uthirapalguni star, divisions of Sun, Moon, Mars 
alongwith the part of Rahu division 0-46-40 will be found in 
Simha. 


The balance of 1°13'26" belonging to Rahu division will be 
found in Kanya which is the 4th of the 9 divisions. 5th division 
belongs to Jupiter, 6th to Saturn and the /th is the one 
belonging to Mercury. The 8th belongs to Kethu and the 9th 
subdivision ends with Venus. The same type of 9 parts or 
subdivisions of a star have been repeatedly explained, 
throughout this book. 


As such 6°10" in Kanya, which is the 6th subdivision relating 
to Mercury, this subdivision area as it is owned by Mercury- We 
call Mercury as sublord. Throughout this book, this subdivision 
areas for every bhava and star has been repeatedly explained 
to understand the sublord who is nonelse than the subdivision 
lord. 


This sublord is Mercury who is stationed in Vrischika rasi, 
and in Vishaka star, and of the 9 divisions of Vishaka star, this 
sublord Mercury is posited in the last division which is Rahu 
area. By this, Mercury gets connected to houses 8-11 and 5-?. 


146 


How? Being in Jupiter star, houses 8-11, and as it is in Rahu 
sub- Rahu being occupant of 7th, the 7th house, the 5th house 
because Mercury is owner of the 5th, Mercury stationed in 6th- 
Gth house, then again Mercury being the owner of 2nd 
house-the 2nd house are all connected. Therefore, Mercury is 
predominantly connected to houses 8-11, and the 7-6-2-5 
houses are connected in a combined manner. Sum totally, 
Mercury is connected to houses 8-11 -7-6-2-5. 


5th sublord if connected to 5-7-11 houses, a situation will 
certainly arise leading to a love affair. Marriage also will take 
place. Here, if the 6th house if predominantly connected similar 
to 6-11, it will not give marriage. If the same 6ih house 
connection is not predominant but having a connection in a 
combined manner, that is as it is, the house of deposit, cerlain 
disturbances will surface, and at last marriage will take palce. 
Because for Mercury 8-11-7 houses are at its command than 
the other houses. The reason is, Mercury being deposited in a 
star and occupy one of the 9 subdivisions which are most 
important. Then only, imperlance need be given to the house 
where Mercury was stationed and the houses Mercury owns, 
are all of less imporlance. Accordingly, the Native of this 
example chart, he or she will cerlainly have a love affair, and 
aller some obstacles and disturbance, this love affair will end In 
marriage. 


Similarly, for a female, whether she is destined for a 
progeny can be clearly known trom the Sth sublord. If the Sth 
sublord is deposited in the stars of occupants or owners of 
5-2-11 and also deposited in one of the 9 divisions, through & 
upto which subdivision the 5th cusp is formed, that subdivision 
lord or sublerd if not at all connected to 4-10 in any manner, 


147 


then, the child birth is rest assured. Rahu or Kethu may occupy 
the 5th house, or some other defects may be attributed to the 


Sth house as every one saying sarpa dosha and so on still, one 
is destined to have a child birth.’ 


What is said above is explained through an example chart. 


WI 14.15 Wil 12.09 
Moon 16.02 VIO 15 


iV 12.15 
Jup 9.22 19/20 - 12 - 1950 IX 10,15 
5.02 AM 
Mars 10,32 Yen balance 15-11-12 
WL 10.15 
MER 23.58 


Ven i312 Lagna 
NiO.16 l1209 


Ke 0.21 
m1 14.15 Sat 6.49 


Sun 5,26 ~E13.15 


Rasi Chakra 
49/20 -12- 1950 


Sth Cusp sublord is Rahu. Rahu is in the star of Jupiter and 
of the 9 divisions Rahu is in the dwisan of Moon. This is tor 
Male. 


148 


Similarly for his wife - 5th Bhava (from VII}-XI bhava sublord 
is also Rahu which alse is foundto be the same. - 


The second charl shown above is a Rasi chakra chan, with 
planets occupying are written. Then, as any Astrologer, in the 
customary way of observations made, you will find Rahu 
occupying the 5th, lord of Sth is in the 4th. Rahu in the 5th is 
aspected by Saturn. Rahu in the 5th is generally known as 
sarpa dosha. Lord of Sth in the 4th furlher weakens the 5th 
house when studied for child birlh. Finally, the foreteller says 
that the Native is denied of child birth. 


But this Native had a male child on 22-3-1982, and the child 
is hale and healthy, As explained earlier, when Sth sublord not 
at all connected to 4-10, but signifying 2-5-11 in a lady's chart, 
child birth is certain. In this birlh chart, both husband and wite, 
the 5th sublord is Rahu. Rahu ts in the star of lord of 5 ttsellt, 
Rahu is in the Sth sign but under the bhava limits of 4th. Rahu is 
predominantly connected to the Sth house. At the same time, 
Rahu has the ownership of the second house. How? 


Because Rahu is stationed in Jupiter's house, thereby he 
has become the agent of Jupiter and takes control of houses 2 
and 5. This is how Rahu/Kethu acts. Next, Rahu ts in the 
subdivision of Moon, and Moon is lord of 9th. Kethu is the agent 
of Mercury lord of 11th - stationed in 2nd. Gn account of this, 
Rahu as agent of 2-5, and Rahu also being in the star of Jupiter, 
finally Rahu has the connections to houses 2-5-11, Here, we 
should note that Rahu though he has the connection to 4th 
house also, but predominantly subjected to houses 5 and 2, 


149 


Rahu can at the most restrict the number of issue, but cannot 
deny the child birth. In case if Rahu had strongly signified 4th 
house by being in Saturn star, the native cannot have a progeny 
during his life time. 7th House denoting his wite his Sth house is 
the 11th to be wile. His 11th house is 5th house to his wife. His 
second house is 8th to the wife. The 5th house of the wife has 
no connection to houses 4 and 712- child birth is confirmed. 


Qur next thinking will be, when the sublord of the Sth is 
Rahu, how the native had a male child. That is because though 
the 5th sublord is Rahu, it is deposited in Jupiter star a male 
planet. Hence, the birlh of a male child. The same Jupiter had it 
occupied Meena cr Mithuna the birth of male child would have 
been as Twins. Meena and Mithuna are dual signs. Rahu 
though in the star of Jupiter, but is in the Moon division, the 
division lord or sublord Moon as ft Is stationed in Mesha, the 
birth was a male child. To find cut Male/Female birth, even 
though if the sublords are, Venus-Moon or Rahu all female 
planets and if they are deposited in the stars of male planets, 
then it will be Male child. The starlords also should occupy male 
signs. When there is a change in this order, then the birih of a 
Male or Female also will change. 


Ifthe sublord of the 5th happens to be Mercury, stationed in 
a dual sign, deposited in the star of female planets, and the 
starlord if occupying female signs, the child birth will be female 
child as Twins. What is explained holds good for Jupiter. When 
Mercury is stationed in a dual sign, in the star of Jupiter or its 
own Mercury star, and of the 9 divisions of that star, Jupiter or 
Mercury if deposited in the Jupiter division, that is Jupiter 
sublord, or the starlord if stationed in Cancer or Scorpio, more 
than 2 children will be born. Other than what has been so far 


150 


- explained, in any manner the tie up of planet will not give a Twin 
birih., 


Ifthe sublord of the Sth is Mars predominantly signifying 
house 4 and 12, there will be abortions. 


Ifthe 5th sublord is not in any way connected to 4-12-6, but 
signifying any of the other houses, the Native is destined for a 
progeny. Late or. early child birth, the nature and characteristics 
of planets, have a say in the matter. 


ifthe Sth sublord is predominantly connected to 6th house 
and also connected to badhakasthana of the 5th house, and 
when one of them runs the Dasa, the child will be a dead child 
or die in a few hours after birth. 


lithe Sth sublord signifying 511 houses is also connected 
to 12th, and also if aspected by Mars, the child born in Makara 
lagna, the leg of the child will be (defective) lame. If the Sth 
sublord is Mercury signifying houses 5-11 and connected to the 
12th house hands will be lame. If the Sth sublord is Venus 
signifying houses 5-11 and connected to 12th, eyes will be 
alfected - blindness. 


If the 5th sublord is Mercury and Mercury conjoined with 
lords of 1 and 2, and connected to houses 5-11, and aspected 
‘y Saturn and or Mars, child born in Meena or Dhanur Lagna. It 
will be dumb or will have defect in speech. If the Sth sublord is 
Jupiter and bern in Mithuna or Kanya lagna, the child will be 
dumb or defect in speech. If the lagna is Simha, the child will be 
a dull-head or some detects in intelligence. 


151 


In general, the 5th sublord, if it predominantly signifies 5-11, 
but conjoined with bhadhakadhipathi and also aspected by 
Saturn-Mars, without any aspect from Jupiter, and stationed in 
6-8-12 houses to the 5th, the child born will have one defect or 
the other. The nature and characteristics of the planets will have 
a say in the matter. 


5th sublord and the connected Houses:- 


Sth sublord - for what matters and which houses are to be 
connected is explained as Lelow:- 


1) Child birth 2-5-11 

2) Love affairs 7-5-11-1 

3) Betting & gambling 5-10-11-8-6-2 
4) To learn Manthra 3-5-11-4 

5) To be a cinema actor 5-10-11-7 

6) To earn enormous money 2-6-5-11-3. 


The sublord must be Guru with no connection at all to 


houses 8-12. 
7) Failure in love affairs 5-6-10-12-1 
&} To be a popular astrologer 5-9-10-11-2-7. 


The sublord should be Saturn or Mercury or Jupiter. 
9) Child birth Denied - 4-12-10-6 
10) For a strong intelligence and thinking 5-11 -3-9-10-1 
11) Lose thinking, eccentric and near insanity 4-8-6-1-12 
5th sublord in any manner connected to Hahu or Kethu. 
12) Addiction to alcohol 3-§-2-1-4 
Sth sublord should be Saturn or Mars. 


152 


sixth House 

The Sixth house in general is Known as the “house of 
sickness’. Other than this, Sixth house indicates servants, paid 
jobs, enemity, enemies, irregular diet, callies, pet animals, 
herbs, food, clothing, maternal uncle, miserly attitude, purchase 
and sale of vehicles, loss to the enemy, obstacles, separation 
from and so on. Sixth house when connected to 2-11, increase 
in income. 


Sixth house indicates disease. For one to contract sickness, 
how the sixth house should have been formed? Similarly for a 
paid job how the sixth house is formed at birth, and cerlain other 
matters related to Sixth house are explained as below: 


1) Sickly health:- For this, 6th Bhava should be carefully 
studied and understood. If the sixth sublord is connected to 
houses 1 and 6 or Lagna sublord is connected to houses 6 and 
1, sure and certain Native will have sickness or develop some 
disease. How it will happen? Sixth sublord in which star it ts 
deposited, that star lord signifying 1 and 6, and that star Jordyt tt 
is Sun, head-ache and eye diseases. Ifthat star lord is Moon, 
blood related diseases and some disease on the face. If that 
star lord is Mars, high fever, Wood circulation, small pox, T.B., 
and so on. If that star lord is Mercury, windy type of diseases, 
skin infections, ugly patches over the skin. If that sublord Is 
Jupiter, diseases affecting heart and stomach. If that star lord is 
Venus, diseases affect eyes, sex organs and also the rectum. It 
that star lord is Saturn, diseases affect the hands, legs (cold and 
cough), nerves, water pressure in the heart. If that star lord is 
Rahu or Kethu, diseases attect through planets according to 
which planet, they act as agents. 


153 


The level of intensity of the sickness or disease depends on 
the fifth sublord. When the fifth sublord signifies or connected to 
houses 53-10, even though the sixth house indicates sickness 
or disease, it will not be of a major threat to health. Or, it can be 
pulled dewn by medicares. If the fifth sublerd signifies the fourth 
house and the sixth sublord or sixth house levels indicating ill 
healih, the intensity of the sickness or disease will be very high 
and spread over in such a manner that the disease will not 
respond to the treatments. 


2} Next when we say, the sixth is loss to the 
enemy/opponent and profit to the nativa, the how of it Is 
explained by an example chart as below:- 


IV 4.50 
1o.54 Ig 53 Jup 12.01 Vo 5.22 
11.53 Rainthe staroftup [7 29% 
_. (Punarvasu) UP &- 
Jup in the star 
XI] 2.02 of Moon (Rohini) VII 1.53 
X15.22 |' X8.50 IX 9.53 Vill 6.51 


Ra connected to houses 2-11-6 
Jup connected to houses 4-6-2-11 


The sixth sublord is Rahu in the star of Jupiter, signifying 
houses 2-11. Rahu is stationed in the sixth and thereby 
connected to the sixth house. Like a set up of this chart during 
Rahu Dasa or Bukthi or Anthara or by the daily Moon's transit in 
the stars of Rahu - Arudhra, Swath or Sathabisha, one is sure 


154 


and certain to have an inflow of money. This flow of money 
whether it is large or in trickles depends on the strength of the 
2nd and 10th Bhavas. Accordingly, ifthe 2nd and 10th Bhavas 
are in a favourable position to money matters, during Rahu 
Dasa - Jupiter bukthi or Mars bukthi or Sun-Moon bukthis, the 
inflow of money will be in crores. Just now, | said that the inflow 
which may be high or low will be related to the house of 
profession - 10th and to the house of wealth - 2nd. But, 
whatever may be the strength of the houses 2 and 10, if the 6th 
house and the sublord of the 6th signify or well connected to 
houses 6-2-11 during the favourable Dasa-Bukthi-Anthara 
periods, the inflow of money - high or low - the inflow is sure and 
cerlain. Not only the 6th bhava, any planet predominantly 
connected to 2-6-1711, during their Dasa-Bukthi-Anthara periods, 
one will have the inflow of money. But, if they are connected to 
houses 5 and 8 the inflow of money will be reduced, there may 
not be the very intlow at all. 


Here, to know of a sublord, | have already explained. This 
should always be kept in mind. That is any Bhava, rising in a 
sign, that Bhavas has to rise in a star, and out of the 9 divisions 
of that star, in one of the 9 division of this star, which subdivision 
the bhava rises, that subdivision area is called the sublord. In 
order to make the reader understand very clearly about this 
sublord, the explaining of it is repeated. Because as you know, 
for good or bad this sublord is the SUPREMO who is the 
ultimate deciding factor of each of their respective bhavas. In 
this example chart, the 6th bhava falls at 2°02' in Cancer and in 
Jupiter star. Of the nine divisions of this Jupiter star, the first 
division belongs to Jupiter itself followed by Saturn - Mercury - 
Kethu - Venus - Sun - Moon - Mars and Rahu division 
commencing from Jupiter and ending in Rahu. Now, Jupiter at 


165 


2°02' in Cancer in Jupiter star is in division of Rahu, that is 
subdivision belonging to Rahu, and hence the subdivision lord 
or sublord is Rahu. Likewise throughout this book, whichever 
bhava we say, falls in a star and subdivision, this subdivision 
lord is the sublord. 


if the sixth sublord signifies 6 and 10 one will be in a 
service, that is paid job. 


lf the sixth sublord signifies houses 6 and /, the native for 
sometime will be working in service for a paid job and thereafter 
he wil have his own profession. In the same manner, it the 
seventh sublord too signifies 6 and 7 it will be sometime service 
and then after sometime own profession. 


lt the sixth sublord predominantly signifies 7 and 12 not only 
separation will take place, the husband will develop sickness or 
disease. 


lf the sixth sublord signifies 3 and 6, brothers will be 
separated. lfsignifying 3-4-9, Mother will fall sick. 


lf the sixth sublord signifies 6-7-12-1-8, enemies will surface 
appear confront. 


Generally when we speak of the 6th house, when it is 
connected to houses 2-6-11, inflow of money, success in 
undertakings, will be there, but a happiness, more than this level 
cannot be expected, that is for other matters. Similarly tor job 
(service), the 6th house when connected to 2-6-10-11, It will be 
a matter of happiness only to the level of promotion etc., but 
nothing beyond this, that is for other matters.On major event of 


lite, this sixth house takes a leading role, when analysed for 
separation between husband and wife by spoiling their marital 
relation, sickness and disease, emerging of enemies and so on. 


6th sublord and the connected houses. 


The 6th Bhava and the 6th subBlord for what matters and to 
which of the houses when connected are explained as below: 


1} Sickness and disease 1-6 houses 
2) Debts 6-8-12 

3) Separation of husband and wife 6-12 

4) Promotion 2-6-10-11 
5) To earn money 2-56-11 

6} Loss of wealth (money} 5-7-8-12 
7) Purchase of cattle 6-11 -5-1 

&) For success 1-6-11 


When the 6th sublord signifies or connected to the houses 
of several matters as noted above, events take place. 


Further, when we say success in all undertakings, for which 
matter success is sought and analysed for, that house should be 
judged and linked along with houses 6 and 11. For example, 
purchase of house, then, 4-6-11. For success in examination 
houses 9-6-11. To win over an enemy 7-6-11. Likewise, the 
desired houses under judgment should be analysed along with 
houses 6 and 11. 


In general, this 6th house, when analysed for service that is 
paid job, inflow of money, earnings ete., when connected and 
analysed to these respective houses, it gives the success in a 


157 


full measure. For all other matters, this 6th house (analysis) will 
not offer any favourable results. 


Seventh House 


seventh house denotes marriage, partner (life partner and 
business partner) of persons who give and take. Except one's 
family members the seventh house refers to all those with whom 
the native contacts or enters into contract or agreement or even 
quarrels, litigation, duels and so on. Further, this 7th house Is a 
Marakasthana, denotes mother's properly, one's influence and 
honour in foreign countries, public relations, tells who the thiet 
is, one's own profession, International trade and sco on. 
Independent business for people born in common sign. 7th 
house is badhakasthana. To pick up quarrel with a particular 
individual will also be harmful. Likewise several matters are 
denoted by this 7th house. 


li the sublord of the seventh signifies houses 2-3-7 early 
marriage will take place. If the 11th house also when connected, 
that marriage will be a happy one throughout life. If connected to 
6-12 life long happiness will not be there. 


When the sublord of the 7th and sublord of the 2nd are 
connected only to houses 6 and 12 predominantly and that 
sublord if it is Saturn or Mars or Sun, then there will be no 
marriage in his lifetime. What we mean by connection only to 
houses 6-12, is that the sublord being deposited in the stars of 
lords of 6 and 12 in a predominant manner. 


lf the sublord of the 7th signifies 2-5-7-11, it will be a love 
marriage and also a happy one. 


i368 


lfthe sublord of the 7th signifies 5-6-7-12, then after the love 
marriage, S@aration between husband and wife will take place. 


lf the sublord of the 7th signifies 1-6-5-12, love affairs will be 
there, but wilt not end in marriage. 


lf the sublord of the 7th signifies 5-9-12-3, love affair takes 
place, but the boy and girl will elope from their houses. 


lf the sublord of the 7th is Mercury or Jupiter and stationed 
in a dual sign or deposited in stars of lord of dual signs one will 
have two wives, but only when predominantly connected to 
houses 2-/. 


If the sublord of the 7th is Mercury and stationed in Cancer 
or Scorpio or deposited in the stars of Aslesha or Jyeshta 
signifying houses e-3-7, one will marry many wives. 


Ifthe sublord of the 7th is Hahu and stationed in Meena or 
Mithuna, signifying 2-7 houses, having Saturn aspect, then one 
will marry a widow. 


lf the sublord of the 7th is Jupiter and connected to houses 
1-5-6-7, and Jupiter stationed in the 5th, aspected by Saturn, 
Mars one will have sex with his own daughter. Similarly, 
connected to houses 1-3-6-7-12, and Jupiter stationed in 3rd, 
aspected by Mars, Saturn one will have sex with his own sister. 


As said above, there are several cruel ways for one to 
salisfy his sex, in whose birth charl the 7th aad 5th house 
according to their connections with other houses, aspects and 
so on, takes the lead rele. Such natives lose their sense of 


159 


prepertion cn sex matters, so blind te see wnetner it is a relation 
or sister or daughter or even mother. (only for sex matters) 


Therefore, several matters are dencted under the 7th 
house. We therefore will take up for our analysis through 
example chart, one or two matters, how such matters function, 
how they should be analysed are explained below. If one 
analyses as explained, clear results can be had. Slow, steady 
and a patient analysis should be made. Of 7th house matters, 
we will now take up particularly marriage, for one, when 
marriage will take place, how the event takes place, how the 
married life will be, are all brought out clearly in thé example 
charl shown below. 


V 13. 
35 1 waais | wi209 | yii0ds 


Ra 0.21 
Iv 12.15 19/20 - 12 - 1950 
Jup 9 32 5.02 AM IX 10.15 
N 10.46 
Mars t0.32 E 76.42 | 
110.15 Venus dasa bal 16-14-16 x 1215 
MER 23,58 
410.145 ' Sat 8.49 
Sun §.26 “13,15 
Sun- Moola 2 Venus - Moola 4 
Moon - Bharani 1 Saturn + Uthira 4 
Mars - Sravana 1 Rahu- P.badhra 4 
MEA - Pootvasnada 4 Kethu - Wthira 2 
Jupiter - sathabisha 1 Lagna- Anusha 3 


?th sublord is Rahu 
7th sublord - how Rahu happens to be the 7th sublord. 


150 


7th house is in Rishaba. 
7th bhava is Rishaba falls at 12°79" 
‘th house tn Rishaba with Krithika star - 


ending in 10°00" 

Rohini star full - 13°20" 

Mrigasira star (part) 6°40" 
30°00'0 


‘th bhava falls in Rohini star. 
Rohini star has 9 divisions 


First division belongs to Moon itself 1°06"40" 
Second division belongs to Mars _0°46'40" 
1°53'20" 
Add span of the Krithika star in Rishaba 10°00'00" 
11°53°20" 
Third division belongs to Rahu _2"00'00" 
13°53'20" 


Therefore 7th bhava at 12°09" means, the span of the 3rd 
division is between 11°53'20" to 13°53'20". This area lord who 
is in Rahu is called as the 7th sublord. In the same bhava from 
13°53'20" to 15°40'00", when the 7th cusp raises within this 
span, Jupiter will be sublord. Next from 15°40'00" to 17°46'40", 
this division area belongs to Saturn, and therefore Saturn is the 
sublord. Between 17°46'40" to 19°40°00" belongs to Mercury. 
Hence, Mercury is the sublord. From 19°40'00* to 20°26'40” in 
this areas Kethu emerges as the sublord. Next, Venus division 
having his area from 20°26'40" to 22°40'00". Hence Venus is 
the sublord. When the subdivision area falls between 22°40'00" 
to 23°20'00", Sun emerges as the sublord. At 23°20'00" in 
Rishaba, the Rohini star ends. Next Mrigasira starts, having 9 
subdivisions. Therefore all the 27 stars has the 9 subdivisons 


161 


that is sublords, according to the planets have their subdivision 
area calculated to the 120 years Vimshothari dasa. Planetary 
area as per their respective stars, have the division area in 
Deg-Min-Secs which is a constant one and this permanenet 
subdivision area lord is called the sublord. As to how this star 
area is divided and sublord area alloted has been explained in 
earlier pages. As and when you need, you can also arrive at the 
subdivisions. In order to have no confusions at all, | am 
repeatedly explaining this. 


Then you will find in this chart, 7th sdblerd is posited in the 
star Poorvabadhra whose lord is Jupiter. Of the 9 divisions of 
the Jupiter star, Rahu is occupying the Moon division. As Rahu 
is posited in Poorvabadhra star, Rahu is connected to houses 2 
and 5 of Jupiter. Jupiter is in the 4th sign but within the limits of 
the 3rd bhava. Now Jupiter is connected to houses 2-5 and 3. 
As Rahu is in Moon division, Rahu has connection to Sth house 
whose lord is Moon. Now Rahu is connected to houses 2-5-3 
and ¥9. Moon is stationed in the 6th. Qur final observation ts that 
Rahu is connected to houses 2-5-3-9-6-4. Further Rahu and 
Kethu are empowered with special powers to offer the results of 
the house they occupy, the power to offer the results of the 
planets which aspect Rahu or Kethu, the power to offer the 
results of the planets which are conjoined with Rahu or Kethu. 
Therefore Rahu indicates the 7th house, as Rahu is posited in 
Moon divison which Moon signifies the 7th house. Rahu is 
aspected by Saturn lord of 3 and 4. Rahu acts as agent for 
Dhanus and Meena. Venus -lord of 7th is stationed in Dhanus, 
Mercury- lord of 11th, Sun- lord of 10th are all under the control 
of Rahu. Therefore, Rahu, takes charge of Marriage as Rahu is 
connected to the houses 2-3-7-11, the houses that decides the 
marriage matters. Therefore, marriage is assured to this Native 


162 


is very clear and a decided one. | have also explained that 
houses 6-12-10-4 creates obstacles and cause delay in 
marriage matters. In that, the way we should understand is that, 
the sublord of the 7th having NO connection at all in any manner 
to houses 2 and 7, but should be connected only to 6-12 
houses, then only denial of marriage or separation is there. As 
such tor certain lagnas, lord of 7th will also be lord of 12th. So, 
when ?th sublord is connected to 7th house, it is quite natural 
that the 121h house connection will also get mixed up. In this 
chart, we are coming across such a situation. Then how to 
decide in what manner the 6-12 connection is there. The answer 
is- 


The 7th sublord according to that bhava position, it may be 
anyone of the 9 planets. Accordingly, 7th sublord who ever it 
may be, and in the 12th, some other planet occupying it and if 
this sublord is deposited in anyone of the stars of the occupant 
of 12th, then it means this 7th sublord is predominantly 
connected to the 12th house. The 12th house having a tenant 
planet has another house as 7th house. Even then the 
signification will be for the 12 house only. This is explained by 


an example chartas below 


AIL 16.15 ML 15 06 
Mars 16.04 Jup 24,01 


Vil 14.09 


IAA 


Inthis chart, 7th sublord is Jupiter. Jupiter is in Virgo inthe 
star chithra, Mars ts the star lord. Mars ts in the 12th that is in 
rapt conjunction with the 12th cusp. Therefore, sublord Jupiter 
will signify houses 12-1 and 6 predominantly. Sublord Jupiter 
though stationed in the 11th as lord of 2 and 5, he is completely 
useless. Has this Mars been in the 7th, Jupiter is fuliy 
advantageous. Therefore the connections of the sublords to 
relevant house, should be very carefully studied, to decide 
whether marriage is promised or not or obstacles and so on are 
to be turther analysed. Lord of 6th willaiso be lord of 7th. Lord 
of 7th may also be lord of 12th. Under such circumstances, what 
matter we have taken for analysis, and for that house matter, 
we should find out whehter the sublord is connected or not. 


Except Sun and Moon, all other planets are owners of 2 
houses each. When one of the houses is tavourable, the other 
house will in a natural way be unfavourably connected. We need 
net mind this. For the houses we need, we must look to, 
whether the sublord is connected to the relevant favourable 
houses under study. So much so, one house being favourable 
and the other house being unfavourable, they will be subjected 
to good or bad after marriage, but will not prevent the very 
marriage. 


In this example chart No.1, 7th sublord is Rahu, in the star 
of Jupiter and in the sub of Moon, and signifies 2-3-7 and also 
connected to the 11th house. That is marriage is promised. But 
due to 5th house connection, love affairs developed and ended 
in marriage with the consent of parents and others. 


Next, we must find out when this marriage took place and 
which of the planets were favourable to celebrate the marriage. 


Y¥MD 
1.At birth, balance of Venus das a 46-11-16 


2. Nexl, Sun dasa 6-0-0 
3. Next, Moon dasa 10-0-0 
32-1-16 


At the end of Moon dasa, the age of the Native was 33 
years. Roughly, this is the age for marriage as per a general 
observation. Moon in bharani star, the dasa is on, predominantly 
connected to houses 7 and 12. What we need is the 7th house. 
In this chart, when ever you select the 7th house, 12th house is 
the other house which is always a connected one. The /?th 
house that we are searching for, and the 7th house that we now 
get should be taken. Relevant to dasa lord, 7th house is the 
favourable one which is confirmed. Next we have to select the 
bukthi lord. 2-3-7-11 are the houses for marriage. How? 2nd 
house-family set up, 3d house- Negotiations, 7th house- Legal 
bondage of the husband and wife, 11th house - permanent 
happiness. The dasa is on with Moon connected to the /th 
house. Moon, other than the 7th house out of the remaining 
2-3-11 houses, Moon though it indicates the 2nd house where 
Venus is stationed, as the 3rd house denotes negotiations, 
before marriage it is customary that both the parties of the girl 
and boy side decide the marriage day, whereafter only in a 
majority of the cases, the marriage is celebrated. Now planets 
that are connected to 3rd house, that planet bukthis should 
operate. Not only that. The 3rd house eventhough it may involve 
the parties to negotiation, but if the outcome has to be 
successful, alongwith 3rd, the t1th house connection must be 
there. Therefore that plant which can equate 3 and 11, its bukthi 
should operate. Then only, the marriage will take place. 
Therefore, we should find out which planet can link houses 3-11 
at one and the same time. Mars and Jupiter are in the 3rd house 


165 


but both has no connection te 11th. Therefore in Mcon dasa 
upto Moon Buklhi and Mars bukthi, marriage will not take place. 
Next is Rahu bukthi. Rahu is connected te the 3rd house and 
acts as agent to the 1ith house. Rahu is predominantly 
connected to houses 2-5-3 and just for a namesake, Hahu is 
connected to the 11th. Saturn and Kethu are stationed in the 
11th. Saturn as owner of 3rd is stationed in 11h. No planets in 
the stars of Saturn. Therefore, Saturn alongwith 3-11, 1st house 
is also connected. Sun is stationed in the 1st house. Saturn is in 
the star of Sun. A Saturn is predominantly connected to the 1st 
house, negotiations will start only during Saturn Bukihi and 
come to a successful end. Next comes Mercury Bukthi. Saturn 
except for connection to houses 3-11, as it has no connection to 
houses 2-7, during this Saturn bukthi, negotiations will end 
successfully only during Mars anthara or Jupiter anthara. The 
reason is both Jupiter and Mars are stationed in the 3rd house. 
The next Mercury bukthi, is predominantly connected to houses 
7 and 2. How? Mercury is deposited in the star Poorvashada, 
signifying 7th. Mercury is stationed in the 2nd and hence 2nd 
house is connected. Furlher, Mercury is in Venus star, which 
Venus is lord of 7th, and that 7th lord Venus, stationed in the 
2nd. Mercury in Venus star, predominantly connects the 2nd 
house. Mercury is lord of 11th. Thus Mercury signifying and or 
connected to 2-7-11 houses, marriage will cerlainly take place 
during Mercury bukthi. Mercury bukihi runs for 17 months. Now 
we must find out during which anthara, marriage will take place. 


Before proceeding to find out in which anthara the marriage 
will take place, we have to study an important level. That is, 
every one says, a general opinion that Guru balam should be 
there for the marriage to take place. In our daily life we are 
coming across several marriage taking place without Guru 


balam and with Guru balam ON, marriages have not taken 
place. Such marriages are thousands and thousands. Further, 
Guru balam is reckoned from Chandra lagna. This is not a 
correct approach. Because in a birth chart, chandra lagna itself 
may arise as 6-12 houses that negates the marriage. Then 
again, the house of marriage, the 7th is reckoned trom birth 
lagna and not from the birth Moon sign. Chandra lagna means 
that which indicates the birth star in a house through which 
dasa-bukthi is calculated. This dasa-bukthi and the Guru balam 
has no relation to each other in any manner. 


gaturn, Jupiter, Sun and Moon, these four planets are called 
the TRANSIT OWNERS. Aparl from how they function in a birth 
chart, for an event mater to materialise during a given period 
only, these four planets- the TRANSIT OWNERS have a key 
role to play by their transits- that is in Gochara. 


Moon in 27 days, Sun in 12 months, Jupiter in 12 years and 
gaturn in 3G years- make one round around the zodiac. As 
such, if a matter event is to be completed within 27 days. Moon 
transit over the favourable senistive point of the zodiac is a 
must. 


Similarly, if a matter event is to be completed within 12 
months, Sun transit, over the favourable sensitive point of the 
zodiac is a must. 


Likewise if a matter event or several other matters are to be 
completed over a span of 12 years, Jupiter transit over the 
favourable sensitive point of the zodiac is a must. 


In the same manner, for an event matter or several 
matters are to be completed over a span of 30 years, Saturn 
transit over the favourable sensitive point of the zodiac B a 
must 


Over and above the 30 years, transit of Uranus, Neptune 
are to observed. These are some of the general rules, which are 
very much applicable in the Horary chart to our advantage. 


Therefore, when Jupiter makes one round of the zodiac in 
12 years, during which peried marriage is to take place, we have 
to observe whether Guru balam is there and also favourable 
during its transit reckoned from lagna for 2-7-11, and not from 
chandra lagna. A marriage to take place in the age of 12 Is a 
rare thing. Most of the marriages take place around the age 
group of 30. Therefore when Saturn makes one round of the 
zodiac in 30 years during which period, marriage is to take 
place, we have to observe whether this Saturn's transit is 
favourable for marriage connected to 2-7-11 houses of 
marriage. Marriage is celebrated above the age 15 in several 
ways, what all said above is of a general rule and not to be 
taken in the strict sense. For marriage, it is the 7th sublord and 
the dasabukthi-anthara, that decides the marriage and the 
timing, when the Guru balam does net at all come ints picture, 
and the marriage too takes place. For a train to start the green 
signal is shown. Similarly, the 7th sublord shows the green 
signal. On seeing the green signal the dasa bukthi lords conduct 
the marriage. To explain about the Guru balam so much was 
discussed. 


Next we continue with our example chart No.1. We stopped 
at- that the marriage to have taken place during Moon dasa 


168 


Mercury bukthi- dasa lord connected to 7th house, bukthi lord 
connected to 2-14 houses. The dasa-bukthi period is on. Now 
we have te find out the anthara lord whe will be favourable. Next 
to Mercury anthara, it is Kethu anthara. Kethu conjoined with 
saturn is connected to house, 3 and 4 and stationed in the 1h. 
Next is Venus in the star of Kethu signifies houses 10 and 11. 
Next is Sun whe is also in the star of Kethu. Next is Moon 
signifying houses 7 and 12 but stationed in the 6th. Next is Mars 
in the star of Moon predominantly signifying houses 6 and Q. 
Therefore, upto this stage none of the anthara lords are 
favourable to conduct the marriage. Next is Rahu anthara, 
Rahu already as you know, is the 7th sublord signifying houses 
2-5-7-11. Therefore it is the Rahu anthara which is the 
favourable period for marriage. 


Marriage was celebrated on 2-11-1978, Friday, morning 


between 6 to 7 a.m. 1979-11-2 
Date of birlh of the Native 1950-12-20 
28-10-12 
j. At birlh, balance of Venus dasa 16-1-16 
2. Sun dasa 6-0-0 
2?-1-16 
3. Moon dasa Moon Bukthi 0-70-0 
Mars bukthi 0-7-0 
Rhu bukthi 1-6-0 
Jupiter bukthi 1-4-0 
Saturn bukthi 1-7-0 
27-11-16 


4. Moon dasa - Mercury bukthi 
Mercury anthara 0-2-12 
Kethu anthara Q-1-0 


169 


Venus anthara 2-25 
sun anthara 0-0-25 
Moon anthara O-1-12 
Mars anthara G-1-6 


28-93-06 
Rahu anthara 02-16 
28-11-16 
Age at the time of marriage 28-10-12 


0-1-4 


Theretcre, Marriage was 
celebrated during Moon dasa, 
Mercury bukthi, 
Rahu anthara, 
Friday, 
Meena rasi/Uthirabadhra star 
In Thula lagna. 


Day lord - Venus - lord of 7th. 

Moon rasilord - Jupiter lord of 2nd. 

Starlord - Saturn - Lord of 3rd stationed in 11th. 

Therefore all the above planets are connected to houses 
2-3-7-41. 


Unless, upto this level of analysis is made, for marriage- on 
the timing of event one cannot pinpoint the day and date of the 
event. Therefore to tell with a mere Guru balam of the marriage 
event, will never be of any use. At certain times, the level of 
analysis made tor 2-7-11 coincides with that of Jupiter transit in 
Gochara, one may form an opinion, that the marriage tock place 
because of Guru balam, but the. truth is- it is not because of 


170 


Guru balam. Without Guru balam several several marriages 
takes place. Whatever levels of transits (Gochara) may be, they 
are to be ascertained from lagna only. To count from chandra 
lagna, of the (Gochara) transits will never be of any use. From 
lagna to the 12 houses, dhana, brother, mother, children, 
disease, wife etc. we are counting from lagna. But when it 
comes to Gochara (transit) to count from chandra lagna, will not 
only be contradictory but also useless. For example to know the 
time of death to mother, from 4th house (i.¢ Mother} we are 
verifying the 2-7 houses being marakasthana alongwith 
badhakasthana. Here transit of Jupiter and Saturn in the 
maraka-badhakasthana houses from 4th, which period is taken 
note of to fix the timing of death. To the contrary, Jupiter-Saturn 
transit trom chandra lagna - and theretrom the 4th - to talk about 
timing of death to mother as per Gochara will never be of any 
use. Guru balam and sani balam is not only for marriage but for 
all good and bad results, the transit of Jupiter or Saturn is to be 
taken note of is a general rule. Of the 2? stars, Moon when it 
transits a particular star, a parlicular event takes place. Why? 
Because Moon also, according to Gochara only, transits star 
alter star. In 27 days, it completes one round of the zodiac. 
When a matter event is decided by all the concerned planets, at 
the final stage, they approach the Moon for execution. For that 
matter event, related to a particular star, Moon transiting in that 
Star in a duration of 24 hours, brings the timing of event very 
close, to be connected to the lagna transit. In turn, the lagna 
transit operating roughly for 2 hours in a sign completes the 
event in full and final. In the same way, Sun-Jupiter-Satum, all 
the three too have the Gochara run. For a bus accident to take 
Place, you all know as to how many levels/stages are to be 
formed. The person’ involved in the accident occuring at a 
particular time has to starl just a little earlier. The bus also has 


171 


to start at the given time to reach the correct place/spot of the 
accident. The bus should not be bumping or jolting or some 
other thing should should not come in the middle way- and even 
if such disturbances to the bus do happen- then also the bus will 
be at the said time to cause the accident, and the accident will 
take place. What is the reason for all these? The reason is the 
same Gochara that is transit beginning from Saturn-then Jupiter- 
then Sun- then Moon, then atlast the lagna transit also has to 
make the event happen. All events happening on earth is 
subjected to this Gochara, that is transit, and yet this is only a 
general and broad observation. Theretore, the Gochara levels 
are meant not only for marriage but for all events, the said 
Gochara Is necessary and at the same time it is only a general 
rule. This is exactly what happens in 27 days of the Moon or 
within one year of Sun or within 12 years of Jupiter or 3G years 
of Saturn, all of which aré meant for a purpose. Again to repeat, 
this Is an approximate and general rule only. If { wish to 
elaborate about this, a separate book has to be made. 
Therefore, | wish to make one single reference. 


From lagna to the 12, every cuspal sublords, for particular 
matter, if they have no key role to play, due to affliction etc. but 
have a strength just sufficient to push through ordinary level 
matters, then alone Saturn, Jupiter transits, that is Gochara are 
essential. Ifthe cuspal sublords are strong to decide a mater, 
the events shall take place without the suppor of Saturn, Jupiter 
Gochara (transit), but the sublords by its directives will dictate 
the dasa bukthi lords to complete the matter event. Or to tell in a 
diflerent way, the dasa-bukthi, Moon, Sun and lagna transits 
gets the power to act from the strength of the respective 
sublords. 


1¥2 


Astrology as a Science, was never a made, easy one in 
terms of predictions. Make a rasi charl, fill up the planets (and 
such a charl which does not have the bhava sputa and Graha 
sputa) to tell predictions, is of no use, which we all know. 


So from a birth charl, if you wish to know about mamiage, 
first and foremost imporlant point is to have the correct birlh 
time and in case birth time given is wrong, it has to be rectified. 
Otherwise cuspal sublords and planet sublords will vary on 
account of which a correct prediction cannot be made. There 
are ways and means to find out whether the birth chart is correct 
or the given birth time is correct. When doubt arises, through 
proper cross checks one will be able to find out whether the birlh 
time given is correct or incorrect. How to judge whether the 
given birth chart is correct or not or for that matter the birth time 
given is correct or not are explained in detail as below. Slow and 
steady with patience if one probes, even though a wrong charl 
or a charl made to incorrect birth time, through this, one can 
make things clear. 


When you receive a birth chart from the hands of the Native, 
immediately note down the time. To note down the time means 
only when you are to make predictions roughly from that time. 
The time noted will be useful and helpful. In case you receive 
the chart at a time, but you are to make predictions atter few 
hours or days, in that case leave oft this time and take the time 
when you are ready tor commencing the analysis. On that day- 

What is the day lord? 

Which is the Moon rasi? 

Which is the Moon star? 

Which is the Month? 

Of the 9 divisons of that star in which subdivison Moon 


173 


transits - Moon) sublord. 
Which is the lagna - lagna 
Gin which star the lagna is moving - Lagna startord. 


Aiter knowing the 7 levels of the ruling planets of the 
particular time, if you compare it with the birth chart in your 
hand, they will tally. Ifa planet is in Vakra at that particular time, 
in the birlh chart also that planet, or the star lord in which that 
planet is deposited would also be found un Vakra. When the 
planet is Vakra, in which star it is deposited, take that stariord 
and leave the Vakra planet. 


Again | am explaining with a true event as below- 


On 22-6-92, Monday evening at S50 p.m one 
Mr.¥.Dhandapani of Avanasi having his computer birth chart 
approached me and said that he is doubttul of his birth time and 
requested me to rectify it. His birth charl details are 28-4-52, 
Monday 3.60 p.m. with longitude and latitude mentioned. When 
we start erecting one's birth chart, first we should note down the 
commencing time, the date, the day, moon star, lord of the 
month, lagna lord, lagna star lord, the ? levels of that particular 
time. Then find out, in which house each planet is stationed, in 
which star each planet is deposited, and in which subdivision of 
the 9 divisions of that star the planePis deposited. Then make 
them into two parts. What are the 2 parts? 


Of that day - day. 
CH that day rasi. 
Of that day star 
Of that day Month. 


This ig one part. 


174 


When we commence 
analysing the lagna rising Lagna 
Lagna moving in a star star - 


This the second part. 


Ot the above 2 paris, one part will indicate the Natives birlh 
Moon sign and star, and the second part will indicate his birth 
lagna, the lagna star lord and the lagna sublord. 


The Native who approached me did not say that he doubted 
his date of birth, but said that he doubts only about his lagna 
position. Therefore, our analysis is subjected to verification of 
the lagna position only. What matler we are analysing relevant 
ot doubtful nature, it will be cleared by the above ruling planets. 
Any other doubts may give the clue for a tally or even fail to 
tally. Therefore, if one analyses to verify the Date of birth, 
supposed to be doubtful, the above ruling planets, will clear the 
doubts. You need not have any doubt about it. Therefore, here 
the doubt is about the lagna position- that is birth time. 


Again in deatil itis explained as below- 
On 22-6-92, Monday evening 5.50 p.m, the lagna position 


was analysed. On that day at that time the planetary positions 
were Simha lagna 23°21' (Natives birth chart) 


Day Monday Lord Moon 
Rasi Kumbha Lord saturn {A} 
Star P. badhra Lord Jupiter 
Lagna 


175 


for 5.56 p.m Vrischika Lord Mars 
Lagna star Jyeshta Lord Mercury 


Therefore, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Mercury are ruling 
on that day at 5.56 p.m. Reject Saturn as it is Retrograde. The 
remaining Moon, Jupiter, Mars, Mercury are Ruling Planets. 
Now we will see the planetary set up. 


Planets Deg/Mts House olar Subdivision 
occupied ocru occupied 
l.e. sublord 
1.Moon 28°25’ Saturn X Jupiter Venus 
2. Jupiter 14°52" Sun Venus Venus 
3. Mars 12°05" Mars Kethu Mercury 
4. Mercury 29°29! Mercury Jupiter Moon 


From the above you will find that 

Moon gets 2 places 

Jupiter gets 3 places 

Mars gets 2 places 

Mercury gets 3 places 

Yenus gets 3 places 

Kethu gets 1 place 

Sun gets 1 place 

Saturn X gets 1 place. (Saturn rejected) 


Here more places are had by Venus-Jupiter and Mercury 
only. Inthe Simha rasi, where the doubt rises has Kethu, Venus 


176 


and Sun stars. As Venus gets 3 places, lagna star is 
Poorvapalguni is now clear. Nexl as Jupiter gets 3 places lagna 
sublord is Jupiter is made clear. Next as Mercury gets 3 places, 
of the 9 divisions of the sublord Jupiter, one division falling in 
Mercury division, that is Mercury will be the sub sublord is also 
made clear. Sun gets only one place. Theretore Sun is the lagna 
lord is equally clear. 


Therefore, undoubtedly, it is Simha lagna at birth of the 
Native. No doubt about it. 


Lagna - Sun 
Star- Venus 
Sublord - Jupiter 
Sub sublord - Mercury 


Accordingly Sun-Venus-Jupiter-Mercury will be the 
beginning sputa. 


20°-06'-40" beginning 20-6-40 

Area of the sublord Jupiter division 0-14-13 
saturn division 0-16-54 
Beginning of mercury division 20-37-47 


Therefore the planetary positions that is the ruling planets 
indicate very clearly the rising of lagna as 20-37-47. This 
sensitive point arrived at, must now be fixed to the levels of the 
Natives birth chart born on 28-4-1952, which will be the true 
lagna sputa. 


As on 22-6-92 for 5.50 p.m. lagna rising 20°-37'-47" 
KP Ayanamsa at birth of the Native 23°-05'-00 
43°42'47" 


17? 


From Mesha to Simha 120°0G'0G" 
The say an a sputa 163°42'47" 
For this 163°42'47", sayana lagna sputa 24 + 
_ 4-54-52 
sidereal time at birth of the Native (-}. 7-51-39 
21-03-13 
As per Greenwich time for 77° longitude 
time to be added + 5-53-00 
26-56-13 
(les 
2-56-13 


Hence, the birth time of the Native on 28-4-1952 is 
(afternoon) 2 hours 56 minutes 13seconds that is- 2-56-13 p.m. 


The Natives birlh charl made through computer - shows 
simha lagna falls in 23°21 '0C". 
then in that case sun - lagna lord 

Venus - Star lord 

saturn - Sub lord 


for which the birth time will be 3-00 p.m. Similarly, on 
28-4-1952 for 3-00 p.m. - ruling planets will be- 
28-4-1952 - AP at birth. 


Day Monday Moon 
Rasi Mithuna Mercury 
star Mrigasira Mars 
Lagna Simha sun 
Lagna star P.Palguni Venus 
Lagna sublord saturn Saturn 


178 


This is how his lagna position was calculated. His doubt was 
only on the lagna pecsition and not on the date, cr that day's star 
or Moon rasi. There we need not worry about all these for our 
analysis. Still they also come inte picture while in our analysis 


on 22-86-92, 5.50 p.m. 


Day Monday 
Rasi Kumbha 
Star P.badhra 


Lagna Vrischika 
Lagna star Jyeshta 


Moon 
Saturn (R) 
Jupiter 
Mars 
Mercury 


“As Mercury and Mars are in lagna, his birth star is Mrigasira 
is clear. Moon ts in the RP. He was born also on Monday. 
Therefore his day of birth, the Moon rasi and the birth star have 
come in a natural way. Here the analysis made was only for the 
lagna position. The analysis made have been well explained as 
above’. Likewise, through proper analysis, we can ascertain 
whether a given lagna is correct or incorrect, and after arriving 
at the correct birth time, we can get the correct 7th sublord, 
through which § wish to say that we can fix the very date of 


marriage. 


?th bhava - 7th sublord and the connected houses 


1. Marriage 2-f-3-11 
2. For partnership 7-14 
3. For love marriage 2-5-7-11 
4. Separation after marriage 2-7-6-12 
5. No marriage at all 6-10-12 
6. For more than one marriage 2-7. 


But the sublord should be Mercury or Jupiter. They or the lord 


tf 


of the star in which they are deposited should be stationed in 
dual signs like Meena or Mithuna. 
?. TO marry a widow 2-7-8-11, 
But the sublord should be Rahu or Saturn. 
For the above said 7th sublord should be connected to relevant 
matters. 


Eighth bhava (House) 


Eighth house denotes long life, failure in any undertakings, 
sufferings, sorrow, put fo shame, disgrace and so on. If the 
eighth house is afflicted- suicide, accidents, unnatural death, ill 
repute, famine, sorrow through enemies, theft, robbery, 
corruption, slaughter house, icilets, properties from the 
deceased, Insurance, difficulties while travelling, dowry, debts 
etc. Of the above 80% are evil and 20% are good. Good in the 
sense long life, properties cf the wife received as Sthree dhana, 
other's money to study for a Medical doctor and so on, ifthe 8th 
house Is in ne way afflicted. Ifafflicted nothing can be realised. 


1. If the 8th house, the sublord of the 8th signifies 5-8-3-10, 
then a long life. Ifthe 1st house and 2-7 Maraka houses are not 
connected, then one lives for 120 years. 


2. Ifthe sublord of the 8th signifying 2-7, and in any manner 
connected to the badhakasthana - if the sublord of the &th is 
Mars, then one will be shot dead. If the sublord is Saturn one 
will be strangled to death by a rope. If the sublord is Mercury, 
the death will be by air-wind, or poisonous gas. Ii the sublord is 
Jupiter some heavy material will fall over the head/body to 
cause death. If the sublord is Venus, death by accident through 
vehicle.’ Ifthe sublord is Moon or Rahu, death by consuming 


180 


poison. Ifthe sublord is Sun, one will be beaten to death by iron 
rod or crowbar etc. 


3. If the sublord of the 8th signifies 10-2-1-11, one will get 
others properly. 


4. Ifthe sublord of the 8th signifies 2-3-7-11, one will get 
properly through wife. 


5. lf the sublord of the 8th signifies 6-11-2-3-5, one will get 
money through lottery. 


G. Ifthe sublord of the 8th signifies 5-8-1, he will be ever 
borrowing his life time, and goes on paying interest till the end of 
his life. 


?. Ifthe sublord of the 8th signifies 4-9-11-10, one will study 
to become a doctor (Medical). If the sublord is Jupiter, he will 
serve as a Manager in the bank. If the sublord is Mercury, he 
will be a higher official in the Insurance department. 


8. lf the sublord of the 8th signifies 2-10-11-8, then one will 
be the leader of the daccits or robber. But the sublord should be 
Mars. 


9. lf the sublord of the 8th signifies 1-5-8, and the lagna 
sublord connected to 5-8-12, one will have disgrace, ill repute, 
spoken low of etc., till the end of his life. 


10. ffthe sublord of the 8th is Venus or Saturn or Rahu and 
connected to 85-2-7, if Venus, one will many a widow of young 


18] 


age, if Saturn or Rahu one willmarry an aged widow. If Jupiter, 
one will marry a widow with a child. 


Thus ihe 8th Bhava denotes several matters. | will explain 
one of it wiih an example. 


How one will get praperty through his wife is explained by 
an example (chart) as below:- This contains about property 
through wife and property of someone else to him through a 
Will. Here, we must keep in mind a very imporiant thing. One to 
have such a level, of property thraugh wife or by someone else, 
ine Lagna sublord should not be cannected ta houses 5-8 in any 
manner. If connected ta 5-8, wife's property will remain or be in 
the name of the wife only. Or, ne will get in a very small 
measure. At the. same time, one will never get someone else 


property. 


Eighth House- 8th sublord and the connected houses. 


1) For long life - 8th sublord should signify 8-5-10-3-1 
2) Short life - 2,7 
and Badhakasthana 
1} To have the property of the wife - 8-2-41-6-7 


2) To get someone else property through Will - 8-6-41-3-10 For 
this sublord of the 8th should be Saiurn. li should not be 
retrograde both in Horary and birth chart. 

3) To commit suicide - 8-1-42-7-6 

(Bachakasthana) 8th sublord should be Mars or Sun. 

3) Money got through Gratuity, Insurance 


OR property of a deceased person - 8-2-6-11-5. 
oth sublord should be Jupiter. 
4) To marry a widow - A-2-7-11. 


182 


8th sublerd should be Saturn or Rahu. ff itis Rahu, it should 

be connected to Venus in any manner. 
8} For a woman to marry two times or 

to have 2 husbands - §-2-3-7-11-5 
sublord should be Venus and should be connected to Mars. 
Connection means by aspect, or conjunction or occupying the 
houses of Mars. 


Ninth House 


Ninth house denotes several matters and a tew of them are 
mentioned. Research, Divine worship, all places of worship like 
Temples, Mosques, Church, legal matters, long distance travel, 
going abroad, loss of service, change of job in service, to be in 
the highest port at the political level, becoming a saint, 
detachment from family ties, to uphold virlue {Dharma}, high 
thinking, purity of mind and so on. 


1) If the sublord of the 9th is either Mercury or Jupiter, 
signifying 10-2-9-11, one will be well versed in astrology, make 
further research and bring out new findings. 


2) lf the sublord of the 9th is Mercury, signifying 9-5-6, the 
Native without any research, pretending to know everything of 
Astrology, and his predictions will only be a bundle of lies. 
Naturally he is an enemy to astrology: 


3) Hf the 9th sublord is Saturn and connected to Jupiter in 
any manner, and signifying 5-9-3-11-10-6, one will be a leading 
Scientist, and his research findings will astonish the whole 
world. 


183 


4) If the 9th sublord is Saturn signifying 1-9-12, one will 
become a Sanyasi, during Saturn Dasa or the Dasa of lord of 
12th. 


5) if the sublord of the 9th is Mars and in any manner 
connected to Jupiter, and signifying 2-9-10-11, without any 
connection to 8th, during the Dasa bukthi of lords of 10-14, the 
Native will be elected as a Minister. lf 8th gets mixed up, elected 
as a Minister he stands to lose that Minister post. The same 
results will be experienced if 5th gets mixed up. In this a very 
Important point to be noted is, a Native to be elected as a 
Minister, the Lagna sublord should also signify 2-9-10-11-6. 
Otherwise, one will not be elected as a Minister. 


The 9th house denoting several matters, we shall take up 
one item for our study, and the how of it is explained as below:- 


For one from being an ordinary citizen to reacn tné post of a 
Minister, is explained, by an example chart: 


x1 4.53 


SUN 19.94 
MEA 25.36 Moon 25.27 Yen 23.59 


Ke 4.09 Former Chiet Minister 
VIII 0,46 Sri.M. Karunanidhi 
Birth Chart 3.61924 
Mars 26.31 Tuesday 9,00 AM 
VIl 3.32 MN 10,47 E 79.10 


Jup 22,42 coal 3.27 


4 44 
Ml V 453 V3.1 I O.56 


1st cusp sublord is Saturn. oat-Mars-Venus 
saturn - Venus-Mars-Venus 


184 


Sth cusp sublord is Mars - IX- Jupiter-Jupiter-Mars 
Mars-Mars-Saturn 


Saturn signifying 5-10-4-7-8 is in the star of Mars, lord of 5 
and 10, and in the subdivision of Venus, lord of 1 tth. 


Next Lagna lord, Moon is also in the star of Mars signifying 
5-10-7. Moon is stationed in the i1th and aspected by Jupiter, 
lord of 9th. As already explained, if cone were to be a Minister, 
Lagna lord should be connected or signify 2-9-10-11 houses. 
Natives, whose 9th house sublord even if it has strong 
signification to 2-9-10-11 houses, has no chance to be elected 
as a Minister. As such, to make the readers understand the 9th 
cuspal level, all these are being explained. | am again quoting 
the birth chart of Sri M. Karunanidhi, former Chief Minister, a live 
event, for an easy and clear understanding. In this chart, Lagna 
lord having signification to houses 2-10-11, Lagna lord has 
become very strong. At this level, in this charl the 9th sublord 
has come as Mars, as explained earlier. This Mars is in his own 
star Dhanishta, signifying 5-10-7 and out of the 9 divisions of the 
Dhanishta star, Mars is in Saturn division. Now Mars also 
aspects Mercury by its 4th aspect. Mercury is connected to the 
1ith. Therefore, 9th sublord Mars falls in the 9th house, which 
9th house lord is Jupiter, thereby signifying 9-5-10-11 houses. 
Ai ihe same time, as Lagna lord Mcon alse being strong 
signifying 2-10-11 houses, Sri M. Karunanidhi emerged as a 
Minister. Had this 5th house signification also would not have 
been there, he would have continued as a Minister till life long. 
As already explained if 5-8 connections is also mixed up, one 
will become a Minister and also stand to lose the Minister's post. 
Accordingly, Mr.M. Karunanidhi did become a Minister, but also 
lost his Minister post. Again after some time, he came back as a 


185 


Minister and again he lost his Minister post. This is exactly the 
level of the 9th Bhava. The same 9th Bhava cusp when 
connected to 9-10-11, but Lagna lord either weak or afflicted 
one can never reach the highest post. At times, oné may come 
across a higher post only at lower tevels. Even they will be lost 
in a very short period. That is such things will take place during 
the Dasa-Bukthi periods when one reaches a little higher post 
only to lose it in subsequent short periods. 


In the same manner when the Sth sublord is Mercury or 
Jupiter and remains connected to the Sth house in any manner, 
and signifying 2-9-10-11 houses, the Native will emerge as a 
genius in Astrology. It is explained through an example chart. 


Waid.41 o> U19.41 IV 12.44 


Ke 18.17 


| 6.39 
10.9,1923 


5.24 PM Vit6.33 
Balance of Venus dasa Mars 13.21 


Ra 18.17 
at birth 11-6-0 Moon 19.09 


Sun 24,04 
Ven 24.05 
VIL 11.41 
MEA 19.31 
Sat 26.01 f 


Jup 22 0? 


X 12.44 - (K 19.41 


9th sublord in Mercury. 
That is (Lord of Sth is Venus} (Star is Rahu} (Sublord ts 
Mercury). 


In this chart Sth house rises in Thula at 13°41' in Rahu star 
Swathi. Of the 9 divisions of the Swathi star the subdivision on 


186 


13°41’ will be Mercury subdivision. Therefore the sublord of the 
9th cusp is Mercury. Mercury is stationed in the 8th, in the star 
of Moon. Moon signifies 4-9. That is as Moon Is in 
Poorvapalguni star, signifying 4-9, Mercury gets connection to 
4-9. Mercury is alongwith Lagna lord. Therefore, Mercury has 
connection to houses 6-7-4-9-1-8. The Native eventhough he 
had an insight on several aspects of astrology, but he was never 
a popular figure in astrology. Ifthe 1Gth and 11th houses had 
connections, he would have been a popular figure in astrology. 
He was a person who knew thoroughly everything in astrology. 
The reason is that Mercury was the sublord of the 9th, which 
was almost a gift. Next was the connection to the 9th house on 
account of its star deposit. Likewise tf Mercury had connection 
to 11th house or 10th house, the genius of this native would 
have been known to the outside world and exposed to 
popularity. 


Therefore, any one to be popular in astrology, the sublord of 
the 9th must be Mercury or Jupiter signifying houses 
2-9-10-11-5. Such of those Natives, whoever it may be, they will 
be a genius and also popular in the world of astrology. If the 
12th house ts also connected, they will make new findings in the 
science of Astrology, which will be very useful to the public. 


lf the sublord of the 9th is either Mercury or Jupiter and is 
not at all connected to the 9th house, his predictions will be a 
perverted one supported by lies and false-hood. 


lf the sublord of the 9th is neither Mercury nor Jupiter and 
also not connected to the 9th house, then one is not all destined 
fo be an astrologer, besides he will be completely ignorant of 
Astrology. 


187 


Sth sublord connected to what matters and the connected 
Houses. 


1}To be a leading scientist 9-2-10-11-3 
The sublord should be Saturn and connected to Mercury. 

2) A genius in Astrology 2-9-10-41 
The sublord should be either Mercury or Jupiter. 

3) Spiritual lite and Divine worship 1-9-5-11-12 
The sublord should be Saturn and connected to Jupiter. 

4) To be popular in Politics and reach 

the highest post 9-10-11 -2-6 
The sublord should be Mars or Sun and stationed 
in the 10th or deposited in the star of lord of 10th. 

5) To do Research and bring out new findings 9-12-6-11 
the sublord should be Saturn. 

6) To go abroad 9-3-12 
Rahu or Kethu should not come as sublords. In case Rahu 
or Kethu is the sublord, they should have connection with 
Jupiter or Mercury, Saturn or Moon. 


10th House(Bhava) 


10th house tells everything that we do for our livelihood. The 
work so done is known as Profession. 10th house is aptly called 
the apex of the Horoscope. Profession indicates occupation, 
service, business, or political activities and so on. 10th house 
tells about one's name, fame, honour, recognition, good conduct 
commanding nature and so on. 


10th house is the only house, that declares that there is no 
substitute for hardwork. Only by hard work, one can come up. 
10th house level matters contain only to give, ever ready to give, 


184 


the never ending middle level profits even to a very weak 
Native, who has the Will to come up by hard work. 


10th house is to be studied for cbsequies to parents, 
material savings for long periods, the feeling of sacrifice, a 
matured thinking for the welfare of others, to offer several types 
of status, to prevent evenis for speedy disposal - but at the 
same time that matter will be shaped for full satisfaction without 
any diminished values. On deeper analysis of this 10th house 
such ofthe said matters will come te light. 


The inbuilt nature of the 10th house is so characteristic, that 
it has the power to delay while giving the results. It does not 
allow a matter to move for a speedy disposal. 


Other than the 101th house, all other 11 houses of the Zodiac 
will yield a benefit bearing one defect or the other. But the 10th 
house being Vraya, only to the 11th, it may reduce a little, the 
huge profits but never denies the middle level profits to any one. 


Eventhough the 11th house gives profit and a mental 
satisfaction it will not hesitate to accept profits eventhrough 
undesirable means. 


But the 10th house will accept profits desired only through 
fair and honest means. It will totally refuse to accept anything in 
earth that arises through unfair means and ways. For this very 
reason, this 10th house is probed tor name, fame, honour, 
status, higher positions, commanding nature, appreciation of 
one's services to the society and so on, which are abundantly 
stored in it. When this 10th house connected to certain houses, 
being one pf the material trinity i.e.. 2-6-10- houses, it is a king 


189 


maker and in the process Chief Minister to Prime Minister or 
Peon to President are made. 


This is the only house to evolve personalities of starting 
character, straight-forwardness, with cultural traits. 


10th house when aftlicted due to certain other factors and 
when connected to houses 5-8-12-6, it loses its true nature, 
resulting to offer disgrace, ill repute or even scandals. 


To tell in a different way results of ignoble nature are thrust 
onthe 10th house. 


Depending on the birth chart, 10th house if devoid of any 
connection to maraka and badhakasthana, To the contrary it 
lends support to long life. Higher status, higher thinking \, good 
and straight forward conduct, to understand others and to act 
accordingly and such other beneficial matters are revealed 
through this 10th house. Though it may offer less riches, yet it 
keeps steady. 


i itthe 10th sublord is connected to 10-9 or 10-11, while 
the 10-11 houses has no power to act for badhakasthana, and if 
lagna lord signifies 2-10-11-6, the reading is clear that the 
Native is destined to be a Minister or Prime Minister. 


?. Ifthe 10th sublord is connected to 2-6-10-11, and one 
sub sublord of the said sublord ts also connected to 2-6-10-11, 
one will be a billionaire through industries. 


3. Ifthe 10th sublord is connected to only 1 and 10, one will 
have nothing more than respect and appreciation. His material 


status will be very low. A profession will be created and it will be 
very low. A profession will be created and it will ‘run without any 
change. For example, if one commences his life employed as a 
clerk, he will remain only as a clerk till his death. The word 
promotion will never see the light of the day, in his life. In case 
the lagna lord is very strong, then, afler a long time he may 
attain a little higher level status. Such type of Natives whose 
16th sublord is connected to 1 and 10 only, will never indulge in 
corruption, cheating, or shorl cuts for a glittering life. At the 
same time, they will conduct themselves to be held in a high 
esteem. 


4. Depending on Movable-Fixed-Cardinal (Chara-Sthira- 
Ubhaya) houses, if the 10th sublord is connected to 10-11-8-7, 
in a few days after his birth, causes death to the parents of the 
Native. 


5. While analysing Horary charis for any matter, if the 10th 
house is connected predominantly, that event will materialise 
very much delayed. Certain events may not even take place, 
even when a favourable dasa/bukthi is on. Still further, certain 
matters if subjected to dishonest ways and means, such events 
will never materialise. Other matters to materialise will be of a 
routine delayed nature. 


6. lf one intends to purchase a house already constructed, 
10th sublord should be connected to houses 9-6-4-12. If 
connection is to 9-6-4-11-12, one makes a profitable purchase, 
and also leads a happy life in that house. 


7. Ifthe 10th sublord is connected to houses 3 and 10, one 
is not at all destined to purchase a house. 


191 


8. tfthe sublord is connected to 3-16-12, change of place in 
the job will occur. 


9. Ifthe 16th sublord is connected to 3-9-10-12, change in 
job and change of place will occur. 


19. lfthe 10th sublord is connected to 2-3-6-10-11, change 
of place will be there due to promotion. It will be at a short 
distance. lf 12th is also connected, then on promotion, the 
change of place will be at a long distance. 


17. Ifthe 10th sublord is connected to houses 10 and 2, with 
Mars having a say, it will cause death to younger brother 
through accidents. 


12. Ifthe 10th sublord is connected to 10-8-5, in a Native's 
chart- his wife is destined to get property, but at the same time, 
the Native will lose his profession. All said will happen during the 
related dasa/bukthi/anthara only. 


13. Further 10th bhava (house), to be analysed for what 
matter and connected to which houses are listed as under. 


1. To start a profession 2-10-11 
10th sublord should be connected to these houses. 

2. To have profits 2-6-10-11 
0th subBblord should be connected to these houses 

3. Profession running in loss 5-8-12 

4. To change the present occupation 2-9-10-11 

5. Change of place in the present job 3-16-12 

6. To change the present job and to undertake 
anew job 9-10-11-2 


7. To rise in political field 9-10-11 
10th sublord should be Mercury or Jupiter. At the sametime 
lagna lord should be very strong. 

8. To get a Minister post 2-9-10-11-6 
10th sublord should be Mars or Sun or Jupiter. If Jupiter it 
should be connected to Sun or Mars. lagna lord 
should not be connected to 5-8-12. 

9. To reach upto MLA level only 9-10-11 
Lagna lord if connected to 8th. 

10. To reach upto a local leader of the 
Revenue Division unit only 9-10-11 
Lagna lord if connected to 5 and 8. 

11. Being in politics and doing subservient 

jobs to influential political leaders 9-10-1 
Lagna lord if connected to 5-8-12 houses and lagna lord 
posited in 5 or 8 or 12. 

12. Leading a very respectable lite and honoured 
by one and all but materially a very poor life. 14-3-9-10 
Lagna lord should not be in any way connected to 5-8-12. 

13. Expert in Astrology but not popular amongst 
the public 2-9-11 
Lagna lord if connected to 8th. 

14. Average astrologer but popular amongst 

the public 1-9-11 
Lagna lord if connected to 3-10-11 

15. To handle horary or using parrots or similar 
anes for instant predictions 1 -9-10 
Lagna lord connected to the 10th house. 

Connection to 5th also the same result. 


Planets connected to 10th house, shapes the profession 
which are manifold. Detailed as under are some of our day to 


day observances of the profession over a cross-section of the 
public. 


Before proceeding furlher, readers are requested to bear 
one important thing in mind- that is - 


a. Ifthe 10th sublord signifies predominantly the 6th house- 
then it is a paid job i.e. service by employment. 


b. lf the 10th sublord signifies both 7 and 10, then it will be 
an independent profession through business, industry etc. 


1. When Jupiter and Mercury is connected in 10th, and the 
profession if independent, one will deal in Finance, Speculation, 
share market, commission agent and so on. Here, connection 
means the 10th sublord itself being Jupiter or Mercury or posited 
in the constellation of the lord of 10th being Jupiter or Mercury 
or subjected to the correct aspects or under 3° rapt 
conjunctions. 


ja. If one has the same, above said Jupiter-Mercury 
connection to 6th, then the Native will be employed to serve as 
a Cashier, service in Banks or such jobs where money 
transactions are involved. Or employed as a teacher. 


2. When Jupiter-Venus connected te 10th, the professicn 
will be textiles, yarn, powerlooms and so on. 

2a. As said above, when Jupiter, Mercury connected te 10th 
and signifying 6th, the Native will be employed to serve in 
Textile Mills, Yarn traders and so on. 


ra4 


3. When Jupiter-Saturn connected to 16th, the profession 
will be related to Metals, Mines, Iron and Steel. Production of 
different things from Iron. 


3a. As said above, when Jupiter-Saturn connected to 10th 
signifying 6th, the Native will be employed to serve in an 
organisation related to Metals, Mines and so on. 


4. When Jupiter-Moon connected to 7th, the profession will 
be related te Blood Bank centres. Manufacture of syrup type 
natural or synthetic cool-drinks, cut piece clothings and so on. 


4a. As said above, Jupiter-Moon connected to 109th, 
signifying 6th, the Native will be employed to serve on the above 
said type of organisations. 


5. When Jupiter-Sun connected to 16th, the profession will 
be related to production and sale of utensils made cut of copper. 
brass, lead, zinc, eversilver and so on. 


5a. As said above Jupiter-sun connected to 16th and 
signifying 6th, the Native will be employed to serve in the above 
said type of organisations. 


6. When Jupiter-Mars connected te 10th the profession will 
be related to building constructions, house construction, 
contractors and so on. 


6a. As said above Jupiter-Mars connected to 10th, signifying 
6th, the Native will be employed to serve in the above said type 
of organisations, and also as a watch and ward, security staff 
and so on. 


195 


7. When Jupiter-RahwkKethu connected to 1Gth, the 
profession indicated is to be said according to the nature of the 
lord of the house (Bhava} they represent. 


8. When Saturn-Venus connected to 10th, the profession 
will be related to Cement, Mosaic tiles, granites and so on. 


Sa. As said above, Saturn-Venus connected to 10th, 
signifying 6th, one will be employed in Factories, Mills, 
Transport organisations. When Sun is connected, it will be a 
governmemt service. 


9. When Saturn-Sun connected ta 10th, the profession will 
be related to manufacture of Tools, Steelwires, Bolts and nuts 
and so on. 


9a. As said above, Saturn-Sun connected to 10th signifying 
6th, one will be employed to serve in the above said type oi 
organisations. And also they will be serving in Municipalities. 


10. When Saturn-Moon connected to 10th, the profession 
witl be related to production and sale of oil and oil based goods. 


10a. As said above, Saturm-Moon connected to 10th, 
signifying 6th, one will be employed in the above said type of 
organisations. 


171. Wnen Saturn-Mars connected to 10th the profession will 
be related te Renovating old buildings, Remodelling of old 
buildings, construction of Mosques, manufacture of black stone 
slabs, Mechanised-stone crushing and so on. 


1596 


11a. As said above, Saturn-Mars connected to 10th 
signifying 6th, one will be employed in manual stone crushing, 
and serving in a polluted atmosphere of foul and rotten smelling 
places. 


12. When Satum-Rahu/Kethu connected to 10th, the 
profession indicated is to be said according to the nature of the 
House they represent. 


13. When Mercury-Jupiter connected to 10th, the profession 
will be related to as Publishers, Press, Astrology and so on. 


13a. As said above, Mercury-Jupiter connected to signifying 
6th will be employed to serve in the above said type of 
organisations. 


14. When Mercury-Saturn connected to 10th, the profession 
will be related to making of Flute, Violin, Saxaphone 
(Nadhaswara pipes) and so on. If Mars is also connected, one 
Will be a musician, scholar and so on. 


14a. As said above, Mercury-Saturn connected to 10th, 
signifying 6th, one will be a paid worker in Beedi making, or 
anything made using Tobacco. 


15. When Mercury-Venus connected to 10th, the profession 
will be all matters related to cinefield. In this, when Mars-Saturn 
connected one has the ability to play musical instruments. 


15a. As said above, Mercury-Venus connected to 1Gth, 
signifying 6th, depending on the strength of the Lagna lord one 
will be employed in Hotels ranging trom Server to Manager. 


197 


16. When Mercury-Moon connected to 10th, the profession 
will be production and sale of sweets, selling of Milk, or selling of 
Milk made goods, Jewellers, sale of clothings and so on. 


17. When Mercury-Mars connected to 1Gth, the profession 
will be related to polishing of utensils, jewells, making of 
gold-covered ornaments, or materials made to sparkle and so 
on. Selling of Flowers, fruits are also indicated. 


17a. As said above, Mercury-Mars connected to 16th, 
signifying 6th, one will be employed as Blacksmith or serve in a 
workshop. 


18. When Mercury-Rahu connected to 10th, the profession 
will be one, of a watch repairer or running a Mirror shop and so 
on. 


And Mercury-Mars connected to 10th, signifying 6th, one will 
be employed in a printing press as a composer in the press and 
soon. 


Set of professions explained as above, are still manifold left 
not covered as they reveal according to planets connected to 10 
and 6. When 3 or 4 or 5 planets conjunct, with permutation and 
combinations, to say the nature of profession will vary to a wide 
range. In the present day situations, even if one pitches on one 
type of profession, that itself contains several modifications. For 
example, it we take even a small factory, one calls himself a 
Turner, another a.Welder, another Fitter, another a Mechanic 
and so on. If we were to wnte separately about all these it will 
run into volumes. What is explained in the foregone pages are 
only a handful of examples. 


Based on Lagna, all the 12 Houses according to different 
birth times will appear as 10th House. That is, +f Lagna is 
Mesha, Makara will be 10th. Rishaba will be 10th to Simha 
Lagna and so on. 


Likewise, from Mesha to Meena any one House can arise 
as 10th House. As such a profession cannot be determined for 
one and all, exactly to that 10th lord significance relevant to that 
16th House level matters. The profession can be determined 
only by the 10th sublord, as he is the Chief indicator, to tell 
which type of prefession, his strength, his conjunction, and or 
aspects with other planets will alone decide the nature of one's 
profession. 


Here we should take note of an important factor. That is, 
when we say 10th sublord conjoined or aspected, the three 
Outer planets which are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, when they 
conjoined with any planet, these three planets will not only 
dominate to give a result in the first instance, but also control the 
inner planets Mercury-Venus-Moon, to give a profession as per 
their dictates. 


Let us take for example conjunction of Saturn-Venus. Saturn 
has the characteristics tor old and any steel material or several 
similar matters said of Saturn. 


Now, Venus is for vehicle and anything of beauty and 
attraction in shape, size and so on. 


Here Saturn will compel Venus, to make an old, rusty and a 
second hand vehicle to be presented as attractive, but Venus 


199 


cannot overpower Saturn to present a brand new attractive 
vehicle. 


Similar is the case with Jupiter-Mars-Sun. 


To make it a littl more clear, Venus-Mercury-Moon can 
never change the characteristics of Saturn-Mars-Jupiter and 
have them under their conircl. While at the same time, 
Jupiter-Mars-Satum can completely change the characteristics 
of Venus-Mercury-Moon and bring them under their control, 
effect the required metamorphosis, to give a profession, as per 
the characteristics i¢., Saturn-Jupiter-Mars, who are the 
powerlul Outer planets. Of the three outer planets, Saturn and 
Jupiter are powerful than Mars. 


The same can be said by another example. In a family, one 
who is dominating in all respect, all other members of the family 
will accept his decision as final of a subject matter. In the same 
analogy, we understand Saturn-Jupiter-Mars., 


Therefore, when we express our findings on profession if we 
take into account this Saturn-Juprter-Mars, with whom the 
planets conjoined or aspecting, and then the 1Cth sublord's 
connection all in a chain linked property according to each of 
their characteristics, but subjected to Saturn or Jupiter or Mars 
and when the final word is said - this is your profession - then 
our analysis, finding etc., will come invariably very correct. 


11th House(Bhava) 


11th House is commonly known as labhasthana Further it 
denotes elder brother, fulfilment of desires, the two legs, to have 


200 


the desired profits without any problem, Son-in-law, 
daughter-in-law, legislatures, friends, friendship, permanent 
friendship with a life partner or any friend, happy news, goed 
thoughts, horses, elephants, gold coins, electric companies, 
exhibitions, landed properties, recovery from diseases and so 
on. 


Eventhough the 11th house holds so much of the 
advantageous and favourable matters the desired way. Yet 
Natives bom in Mesha, Karkata, Thula and Makara Lagnas, this 
11th house is a danger to their life, ie., badhakasthana. In 
general, this 11th house to Chara lagna people will not give 
good results. To go abroad, to stay abroad, for Research 
Scientists to discover new findings, this 11th House will not be 
of any use. For certain matlers, this 11th gives favourable 
results and for certain other matters it gives unfavourable 
coupled with undesirable results. 


To say 11th house is Labhasthana, it will be appropriate ic 
say that nothing equals this 11th house to give the most 
desirable results in a tull measure, when it acts conjoint with 
other connected houses. Except for a few matters, the many 
desired matters of the people, are not only fulfilled when this 
11th house operates along with other houses, but also gives 
absolute success. 


For example, if one has to complete his higher studies, this 
1ith house must be connected in any manner with 49 
signifying higher studies. 


Tu have success in any matter, 171th house has to act along 
with 6th house. 


201 


If a profession has to be prosperous, the 11th house 
signification is a must along with 10th. 


lfa marriage has to take place in a grand manner and also 
to assure a permanent friendship, signification to 11th is a must, 
along with /th. 


To have a child or a normal delivery, signification to the 11th 
is a must, alongwith Sth. 


For success in lottery alongwith 5th and 2nd-_ 6th, 
signification of 11th is a must. 


To earn more money, or amass wealth, alongwith houses 2 
and 6, 11th house connection/signification is a must. That is for 
any matter or undertaking to be successtul, or for fulfillment, the 
1ith heuse signification/connection is a must without which 
success or fulfillment will not be there. 


At the sametime, for certain selected matters this 11th 
house is not useful for the desired result. That is for bed 
comtens with wite, for new Research findings, to go abroad, 
spiritual life, to control the mind and the senses, the sensuous 
nature and so on. This 11th house will deny such matters or 
cannot be applied. To say it more clearly, the Karmayoga and 
Rajayoga, this 11th connection will be useful only to the 
Karmayoga in a bigway. And for Rajayoga, this 11th house 
connection will negate such matters like spiritual life. Fer all 
mundane pleasures, that is other than the control of mind and 
body, this 11th house connection will be as sweet as honey. For 
persons who are at a saint's level, this 11th house 
signification/connections, are not applicable. 


11th house never operates independently. When it joins the 
other houses by signification/connection. it plays its full role and 
make the houses connected to serve the full purpose, and make 
it more beneficial. That is the connected houses be it good or 
bad, this 11th house signification makes those houses useful, 
purposeful and beneficial. Relevant to mundane matters, any 
event or act where the 117th house co-operation is not there, 
then such matters, desires etc., are never tfultilled. 


A robber enters a house to commit robbery. 8th house 
denotes the act of robbing. If this 8th house is connected to 
11th, the rdbber will come out without being caught. The 
materials that he robbed gives him the satisfaction to a level, 
which will be more than what he expected. 


If while robbing had there been 12th connection, the robber 
will be caught whu: robbing or after some days. The materials 
that he robhed will also not be to his expectations or 
satisfaction. 


Therctore. the 11th house as we all say- it is Labasthana. if 
is only a general saying. The 11th house relevant to which 
matter and connected to such cf the houses, that matter and 
event is completed in full and final. This is the salient feature of 
this 11th house, an inbuilt characteristic, to be useful, to 
complete an undertaking or make the desire fultilled. At the 
sametime, it is vraya to the 12lh house matters, and it will spoil 
or negate all matters analysed for 12th house matiers. Further 
for Chara Rasis(movable signs} like Mesha, Karkata, Thula and 
Makara, if they happen to be the Lagna, then this 11th house is 
totally a badhaka house. 


203 


Eleventh House Matters - Eleventh sublord and the 
connected Houses. 


1} To amass wealth 2-6-11 
11th sublord should be connected to 2-6-11 
and the sublord should also be Jupiter. 

2) Success in education 4-9-11. 

3) To be popular in acting 5-11 
The sublord should be Mercury or Venus. If the sublord is 
Mars one will act as a Villain. 

A) Leading musician - Vocal 2-3-10-5-11 
The sublord should be either Mars or Sun. 

5) Leading instrument player-String instruments 2-3-10-6-5-11 
The sublord should be Saturn or Mercury or Moon. 


6) Leading instrument player-Drums-Bands 2-3-5-10-11-6 
The sublord should be Venus. 

7) For profits in business 2-6-10-11. 

8) To maintain elephants, horses 6-3-40-11. 

9) To construct several houses 4-11-12. 

10) To purchase a constructed house G-9-4-11. 

114} To have marriage as one desired and lead a 
happy lite 2-7-3-11. 


This rule will not apply to Chara Rasi Lagna borns 
(Mesha-Karkata-Thula and Makara). 
12) For a happy married life Chara Rasi Lagna borns 
Mesha-Karkata-Thula and Makara 2-/-3-16-5. 
13) For a happy married life to Ubaya Rasi 
Lagna boms Mithuna-Kanya-Dhanur and Meena 2-3-5-10-11 
In this 7th house should have no connection. 
14) Safe and natural delivery ot child 5-3-11. 
15} To know whether one will have success 
as desired of a task, exclusive of observation for- 


on 


to have the desired wite, partnership, 


free of disease ' 6-11. 
16) To know whether love affairs will be 
successful 5-11. 


The sublord should be Venus, Moon or Mercury. 


As mentioned above and likewise there are thousands of 
matters. It is not possible to mention all of them. Therefore, 
vhatever may be the matter, coming under mundane affairs 
even if they are manifold, 11th house when connected to such 
matters gets absolute fullness for a total success. 


12th house(Bhava). 


12th house is commonly known Vrayasthana This 12th 
house contains some unfortunate and evil significations. still :t 
has some favourable and fortunate level matters to ave 
depending on how this 12th house is judged, while analysing a 
matter. 


Evil nature of this house shows material loss. accidents. self 
restriction, suppression, imprisonment. suicide, foul play danger 
from animals, separation unforeseen difficulties. happenings 
against to our thinkings, financial difficuties. unwanted 
expenses loot, dacolty poisoned to death, to act agains’ 
Government and so cn. All the above said evil maiters can 
happen only when 12!h house or 12th subiord conjoins with 6-8: 
houses. Furthes, not only the connection of 6-8 houses but 
planets Mars-Saturn-Sun-Rahu and Nepiune: when they are 
subjected to 6-8 house connections or when they become 
sublerds signifying 6-8 hesuse4 only then evil matters take 
place. 


12th house - its good effects:- 


Control of mind and body over sensuous matters, to empty 
the desires, to invest money in good ways, bed comfort with 
wife, God intoxication, sell realisation, new research findings, 
detective, to be alone, to pave the way for Rajayoga, to go 
abroad, to be popular at abroad, in a way fo invest and later on 
that investment turn out to be a big profit, to be liberal i.e., not 
miserly and so on, all come under the 12th house. When houses 
10-3-5-9-11-4 are connected to 12th, generally the result will 
always be good. For example, one constructs a factory several 
people are employed in that factory enabling them to run their 
livelihood. Without a connection to the 12th house a factory 
cannot be built. Likewise during the yesterdays or yesteryears, 
one purchases a piece of land. In the course of time, the land 
Value increases. One can sell it for profit or can be made use to 
construct a residence. For this 12th house connection Is very 
esseniial. Scientists discover several secrets in astronomy and 
to discover still several scientific truths, without this 12th house 
connection, new reseach findings cannot be made. One to have 
a state of mind to help the poor and downtrodden, 121th house 
connection is required. To control all the desires, and with a 
concentrated mind, if ane Is to practise meditation towards God, 
12th house connection is a must. Therefore, one will observe 
that this 12th connection to evil houses, brings evil results. 
When connected to good houses, all good results come 
through. 


That is 1-47-10 houses are capable of acting independently 
and play the role of a leader. All other houses other than 
1-4-7-10, when they connect to any other house or houses, 
accordingly they olfer good or bad results. For this reason our 


genius of the ancient past, named these 1-4-7-10 houses as 
Kendrasthanas. What is meant by Kendra? Kendra means, that 
which does not alter, change ur remain as a constant one. 
Whatever be the matter, it does not increase or decrease. It 
always maintains a middle level, They are like a Railway 
Junction. Therefore, the 12th house, eventhough it may contain 
some evil, it holds good results also. It depends on the psyche 
(mental level} of the individual and accordingly it will subject 
itself, fit ttself. This is the nature of the 12th house. One decides 
fo cheat another and extract money in a cunning manner. Here, 
it is the psyche of that paricular individual. When the dasa of the 
lord of the 12th house is on, and connected te 6-8 houses, the 
cheating psyche goes to the help to extract money in a cunning 
manner. If one desires to construct a choultry for feeding the 
poor for a day or for several days, every month, this good act 
depends on his good thoughts (psyche). Here, when the 12th 
house, when connected to 5-10-1, during such dasa/bukthi, he 
spends money to help the poor. Here too, it is the 12th house 
that goes te help the good thoughts. We know of scientists, whe 
neglecting their food and sleep make new scientilic discoveries 
to the people. Here tor such a strenuous research, the role of 
the 12th house is a must. Thomas Edison found the bulb. He 
took 75 years. This bulb is very useful to the public. 


The reason for such a research finding is the role played by 
the 12th house. Therefore we should understand, how one 
makes use of this 12th house, which has its link to the psyche of 
the man. According te our thinking, only the good or bad results 
come through. Or in the natural course of events to come, the 
12h house sets itself to offer the good or bad results. One 
drinks and is happy about it. Another hates drinking. Why this 
difference? Because the psyche of these two people are totally 


207 


different. In the same way, how this 12th house is made use of 
by different psyche, from which emerges the good or bad 
results. 


The 12th house-12th sublord and the connected 
houses. 


1) To go abroad 3-9-12 
12th sublord should be connected to these houses. 

2) To construct a house 4-11-12. 

3) To purchase a house 4-6-12-9. 

A) For spiritual development 12-1-10 
Sublord should be Saturn. 

5} To meet with an accident 6-58-12 


The sublord should be either of the 
Marakasthana or Badakasthana. 
6} To commit suicide 1-6-8-12 
sublord should be Saturn or Mars or Sun or 
Rahu and also be lord of Maraka or badakasthana. 
7) To stay/reside in the foreign country itself 1-3-10-9-f2 
8) New inventions 1 -5-9-12 
Sublord should be Saturn or Jupiter. 
9} Moving from place to place 
(Never returns home) 3-12. 
10} To have bed comfort only with one’s wife 1-5-7-12 
tthe sublord is Venus, it will be a life long happiness. 


11) Mind to do dacoity . 10-6-8-12 
Sublord should be Saturn. 
12) Mind to do raping 5-6-8-12 


Sublord should be Mars. 
13To have renunciation (sanyasa) 41-12 


206 


Sublord should be Saturn or Kethu. 
14) Loss in profession 5-8-12. 


As explained above, there are still more to be mentioned 
regarding this 12th house. For example, if the 4th sublord 
signifies 4-11-12, one constructs a house. In the same way, if 
the 12th sublord signifies 4-11-12, one can construct a house. 
Of a House- a bhava, certain levels of matters when indicated, 
and relating to it, if other bhava cuspal sublords signify or 
connected to that bhava, such matters, events of that bhava are 
moved to operate. Again for example, the sublord of the 7th is 
what we have to study eventhcugh 2-7-11 houses are required 
for the total analysis. Here. we must note thal sublord of the 
2nd or sublord of the 11th will also shape the event of marriage 
The 7th house and the sublord of the 7th is meant for the 
purpose of marriage having the monopoly role, and the house 2 
and 11 are conjoined houses of the 7th. Of the 2-7-1141. whoever 
emerges in an orderly manner, marriage, that event shall take 
place. 


209 


MESHA LAGNA 


Mesha is the first house of the Zodiac comprising 30°. The 
lord of it is Mars. This house has the stars Aswini, Bharani and 
1/44 part of Kethika. People born in this lagna will have a long 
life. They have a generous mind. They are bold in any 
undertaking. They have a mind to help others. In general, they 
maintain a happy relation with mother, wife and children. 
Relations with brothers will not be a happy one, and may even 
turn out to be enemies. They will prosper in partnership 
business, joint ventures. They are popular amongst the public. 
Well qualified. By their act they will be triendly to the 
Government and never hostile to it. Persons if born in Mrigasira, 
CGhaithra or Dhanishta, then, indicates danger to father for 
longevity. If born in Aslesha, Jyeshta or Revathy. it indicates 
danger to longevity of mother and also the relations amongst 
brothers are broken. Further, they will be aflected by diseases of 
the skin, nerves, ears etc. If born in Punarvasu. Vishaka. 
P.badhra and lagna lord Mars if connected to 2-3-10-11, they 
will have foreign contacts and be popular. If born in Bharani, 
P.Palguni, Poorvashada, they are very amicable to their wives. 
They prosper in joint ventures. They will have political activities 
also If bor in Pushya, Anuradha or Uthira badhra, they earn 
Well, but their own wealth is their eremy, and at cerlain times 
resulting in danger to their longevity. 


Generally persons born in Mesha lagna - Lagna lord Mars. 
Venus, Moon and Sun should net be deposited in the stars of 
Mrigasira, Chaithra, Dhanishta, Jyeshta and Revathy. Lagna 
lord Mars should have no connection at all with stars Pushya, 
Anuradha Uthirabadhra. Such births, in Mesha lagna, the 


210 


Native will have a long life, a good and happy wife and children. 
They lead a happy and prosperous lite, with a social status, and 
so on. Their profession will be in line with Police, Doctors, 
anything connected with fire like Brick-Kilns, production of gas 
stores, polishing of metals like gold, job in a mill, me¢nanics, 
production of sporis materials, Barber shop, Industry, Boxing, 
Heal estates, Saw mills, Singer, Agricultlure, Selling of fruits, 
flowers, Watch repair, Mutton stall, Manufacture of guns, 
Alcohol and soon. 


Direction favourable to them is East. While constructing a 
house, if they have the entrance door on the eastern side they 
will lead a happy and prosperous lite. 


ff they have an independent profession, then chasis 
building, manufacture of explosives, acids, steel materials, 
stoves, bricks, reclamation of waste lands and so on will be a 
profitable use. 


Lucky days - Friday, Monday and Sunday only. Sundays 
best for entertainments. 
Luck Numbers 6-8-9. 
Luck colour - Blue, White. 


Girls irom maternal side ana girls - i.e. Ladies of younger 
age will be helpful. At the same time, males of younger age, 
younger brothers, maternal uncle etc., relations will not be 
happy and harmonious. 


Foreign contacts, contacts with elderly persons, Research 
workers will have happy relations with Mesha boms. 


211 


Prayer to Saturn Sani Bhagavan and worship of Lord Siva in 
the idol form will drive away the evil effects and do gcocd ‘Pn all 
respects. 


RISHABA LAGNA- 


Rishaba is in 2nd house of the zodiac, comprising 30°. Lord 
of Rishaba is Venus. It has the stars Krithika 3/4 part, Rohini 
and Mrigasira 1/2. For a Rishaba Lagna bom, if the lagna lord 
Venus is not connected to houses 5-11, they will have sickness 
and disease of a permanent nature. They know the value of 
money. Even with all the comforts, still they will be very 
economical. They will be benefitted through children. And still 
they do not have much children. Their thoughts are good and 
they have a deep thinking on any matter before they act. They 
are calm and quiet going type. In general, they are harmless to 
others. If Mercury is afflicted, or subjected to badhakasthana, or 
if Mercury is aspected by Saturn, they tend tc become insane. 
They become experts in Astrology, Manthra, Veda Sasthra arc 
soon. They have keen interest in music, and they are very good 
at playing musical instruments of wind-pipe like flute ete. 


For Rishaba lagna, people born in Punarvasu-Vishaka- 
P.bhadra are dead enemies. If lagna lord Venus or Dhana lord 
Mercury if deposited in Punarvasu-Vishaka-P.badhra. they will 
never have rise in their life. lf Mars is deposited in the above 
stars of Jupiter, always unhappiness with life partner. In 
addition, the three stars Pushya-Anuradha-U badhra are also 
enemies to Rishaba lagna. Any planet deposited in these three 
stars, during their dasa periods disease, accidents failure in all 
undertakings, losses in profession and so on will happen. Any 
planet deposited in the stars of Bharani, P.Palguni, Poorvashad, 


212 


and during its dasa the earnings will be enormous. Success in 
all undertakings. At the same time, they will suffer from sickness 
or pain connected to stomach, tooth or sex organs, or some 
disease that spoils the beauty of the face. They are a happy lot 
with children and younger brothers/sisters. All other relations are 
middlings. 


For Rishaba lagna, Saturn is lord of 10th house. If Saturn is 
connected to Sun, the Native will serve in the Government. 
saturn connected to Mars, one may serve in the FPotice 
Department; Saturn connected to Moon- one will deal in Oil, 
Petroleum products; Saturn connected to Mercury - one will be 
cashier, astrologer, preacher and so on. Saturn connected to 
Jupiter - one will be a lecturer, Judge, Ambassodar, deal in chit 
funds and so on. Saturn if connected to Venus - Vehicle, 
Textiles, Yarn and so on, Saturn if connected to Rahu/Kethu - it 
will be according to the lord of the house they occupy, It 
Rahu/Kethu are stationed in Makara/Kumbha, they deal in oil, oil 
mills. lron, steel, underground cres and so on. Here, please 
note- connected means Saturn at birth should be deposited in 
the stars of the planets of particular profession. Even in one 
category, there are several types of profession. Therefore a 
profession will be a blend of planetary sources, within a 
calegory. 


If Lagna lord Venus is not connected to the 6 stars- 
Pushya-Anuradha-U.badhra-Punarvasu-Vishaka and P.badhra, 
50% of the Rishaba lagna born will have a higher status in life. 


lt they are doing independent business, it will be trading in 
textiles, production of coils, all connected to Vehicles, plastics, 
paints, yarn, cotton, sale of fancy goods. production of ladies 


213 


dress materials, Jewellary shops, Hotels, purchase and sale of 
constructed buildings and so on will give very good profits. 


Lucky days- Wednesday, Monday only. 
Lucky numbers - 3 and 5 only. 


Children, young age -people, younger brothers, astrologer, 
accountants, mason, barber- these pecple will always be 
friendly. Brahmins, purohits, elder brother/sister, pawn brokers- 
such pecple will not be friendly. Further, father, very elderly 
people, elderly people with beard- such type of people also will 
not be friendly. lf lagna lord and dhana lord, that is Venus and 
Mercury if deposited in Aslesha-Jyeshta-Aevathy-Bharani- 
P.Palguni-Poorvashada and also running the dasa there are 
chances for the Native to become a crorepathy. But Venus and 
Weer cury should not be in any manner connected to Jupiter. 


MITHUNA LAGNA- 


Mithuna is the 3rd house of the zodiac comprising 30° 
Mercury is the lord. It has the stars Mrigasira 1/2, Arudhra and 
Punarvasu 3/4. Mithuna is a dual sign. Mithuna sign ts a cause 
te indicate more than one wite. Mercury is Kalathra lord, lord of 
?th, that is significator of husband or wife for Dhanus/Meena 
lagna. For Dhanus/Meena lagna borns, if Mercury is deposited 
in Aslesha-Jyeshta, Revathy, Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badhra or 
in the sub of these stars or occupying Meena or Mithuna and 
aspected by Mars or Saturn, the Native will have two wives or 
some times even three wives. For such a position, lagna lord 
should also be connected to 2 or 7? or 11 In any manner. 
Mithuna borns, tt born in the stars of Mrigasira, Chaithra or 


eta 


Dhanishta and if the iagna iord also connected to 2-10-11, in 
any manner, their earnings will be enormous. They will have 
success in any undertakings. They are very clover. They talk 
intelligently and get their work done with tact and diplomacy. At 
the same time, they wiit encounter difficulties from girls. Their 
love affairs mostly end in failures. For Mithuna lagna, Jupiter 
lord of 7th, if deposited in the stars of Bharani, P.Palguri, 
Poorvashada or Mrigasira, Dhanishta or Anuradha, wife will 
dominate the Mithuna borns, and the Native cannot disobey in 
any manner. The nature will have a hell of troubles through wite 
and lead an unhappy life. ff Jupiter deposited in other stars, life 
will not be a miserable one. It Jupiter lord of 7th is deposited in 
the stars of Rohini, Hastha, Sravana, Krithika, Uthira, 
Uthirashade, the wife will be good and excellent in all respects. 
This view holds good for both male and female. For a Mithuna 
born, affection to tather stoos at the young age itself. After 20, 
father and son relation will not be cordial. Love and affection to 
Mother also will be dull. Mercury if deposited in Rohini - Hastha- 
Sravana, the Native enjoys all favours trom Mother. Saturn if 
deposited in Krithika - Uthira - Uthiashada, the Native enjoys all 
favours from father. If Mercury is in SUn's stars and Saturn 
deposited in Moon's star, contrary to said above, in the course 
of passing time, favours from parents will not be happy. Mithuna 
borns always think of earning. They will always have the 
support from younger brother or sister. Joint ventures or 
parinership business is always a failure. At times, it will lead to 
dangerous conse'quences. 


Newspaper Industry, Commission Agency, Printing Press, 
Cycle shop, Watch shop, Sarees Prints, Photography, Cricket, 
Aviation materials, Preparation of soda and other soft drinks, as 
an orator, Shoe marts, Arl works, Building constructions, 


215 


production of balloons, Astrology, Palmistry, Pipe music anu so 
on are the professions favourably suited to them. 


Mithuna borns will invest their earnings in construction of 
houses, lands etc. and benefit by big profits after a few years. 
To them, if the first child by first pregnancy happens to be a girl 
child, they have to undergo a lot of difficulties, due to this girl 
child. lf it is a boy child all his savings wil be lost little by litlle. 
Other children born - boy or girl will not be a cause to worry. 


Mithuna born are honoured by Government. They will 
always have some connections with the Governments or 
Political parlies. But by themselves, they cannot reach a higher 
level in politics. If they have independent business, Book shop, 
Sales man, P.A., Teacher, Newspaper Mart, Canvasing, 
Publicity, Drivers-Conducters-Ticket examiners, Checking 
inspectors, Brokerage, Managerial post and so on will lift them 
financially to a higher level. Profession like Finance, parinership 
business, Groceries, Chit funds, as Rice Merchants and so on, if 
they handle, will end in heavy losses. 


Lucky Days - Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. 
Lucky Numbers - 2 and 3 only. 
Lucky Colours - Green and Red only. 


For Mithuna borns Politicians, younger brothers, carpenters, 
girls of equal age, Doctors and so on are friendly and helpful. 


For the same Mithuna borns, girls of younger age, cine 
actors, passing time, first child and so on are unhelpful and 
never friendly. 


2te 


Mithuna people ¢ born in Rohini, Hastha, Sravana, Krithika. 
Uthira. Uthirashada and Lagna lord alse connected tc houses 
10 and 11, till their end they live a life cf name, fame, popular 
and prosperity. 


KARKATA LAGNA- 


Moon is the Lagna Lord. Karkata is the 4th house cf the 
fodiac comprising 30°; containing Punarvasu 1/4, Pushya and 
Aslesha. Crab is the symbol. Any one born in Karkata lagna will 
be an adamant lot. Their desire is to assert themselves and 
always play a leaders role. They will argue and try to establish 
that their views alone are correct. They take active and full time 
part in politics. Moon the lagna lord connected to 2-9-10-6-11 
alongwith Mars, Sun, Jupiter, they reach to the level of a 
Minister. 


Generally Cancer borns does not enjoy the affinity from 
Mother, as Well as Father. But the difference of cpinicn between 
tather and children will be very large If Venus is connected to 
houses 10-3-5, then relations with mother will be good. 


The children of Cancer borns will be very helpful but they 
cannot fall Back on the earnings of their children. To the 
contrary, the children will enjoy their earnings. During their old 
age, they cannot enjoy the earnings of their children. It will be a 
rare thing to note that children help the parents in their olu age. 
Daughters of cancer borns, mostly are not helpful. Saturn if 
connected to dual signs like Meena or Mithuna, or Saturn close 
to 120° aspect to Meena-Mithuna, or Saturn making a 3/10 
aspect to Meena-Mithuna, Cancer Berns will have two wives. 
Alongwith Saturn, Venus also has connections other than 


21? 


wite, Cancer borns will have women as keeps. Cancer borns will 
have pain in the stomach, eyes, breast, and laps. Many of the 
Cancer borns have the planetary set up to go abroad. Cancer 
people who are born in Mrigasira, Chaithra, Dhanishta, and 
Moon also connected to 9-2-10-11, they will become Ministers 
or becomes the Prime Minister. If Born in Krithika, Uthira, 
UWthirashada and Lagna lord Moon if connected to houses 
2-6-10-11, the Native earns enormous wealth through heavy 
industries and will lead the life of a crorepathy. If borr) in 
Bharani, P.Palguni, Poorvashada and lagna lord Moon 
connected te Pushya - Anuradha - Uthirabadhra, the Native will 
encounter with accident, suicide, disease or lead a life of 
disgrace. lf bom in Aslesha, Jyeshta, Revathy and lagna lord 
Mcocen connected te houses 2-10-11, the Native will be an 
ambassador or a leading newspaper industrialist. They will not 
stay much at home but will be found continuously moving. For 
what all said above, if lagna lord Moon is connected to 5-8-11, 
day by day they become weak in their status. They will be 
moving trom place to place without any aim or without any use. 
speaking lies all over and lead a life of disgrace. If born in 
Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badhra and lagna lord connected to 
houses 10-2-3 and 12, the Native will stay abroad, construct 
houses, factories and lead a prosperous life. Cancer borns will 
have one of the profession mentioned as below: 


Transport, Hotels, production of plastic goods, 
gold-Jewellery shop, Textiles, Heavy Engineering, Steel, 
Machineries, Agriculture, Furniture, Saw Mill, Firewood depot, 
making boilers, materials connected to police, doctors, barber 
shop, digging wells, works connected to fix and so on. Cancer 
borns if they undertake independent business they will have a 
profession like Transport, hotel, Fancy goods making dresses to 


218 


army digging wellswithboring * Machine. fruit stalls, flower stzatt 
welding jobs, preparation of wine-alcchcl, and selling of 
wine-alcchol etc will be very much profitable. 


Lucky day. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday 
Lucky number 2 only: 
Lucky direction-East 
Lucky stone- Coral. Pearls 


Deity to be worshipped- Lord Subramanya. Murugan, Lord 
Karthikeya. 


People friendly to Cancer borns are Police people,pecple 
belonging te Gounder community, barbers, doctors, wine 
sellers, Tamil and Malayalam speaking people and so on. 


Young girls .boys, persons born in Pushya, Anuradha. 
Uthirabadhra are always harmful to Cancer borns. 


lf Mars deposited in the stars of Pushya. Anuradha. 
U.bacdhra and alse conjoined with Venus, the Native will be 
insane and commit suicide Jf Mars is posited in the stars 
Mrigasira-Chaithra-Dhanishta and lagna lord Moon also posited 
in anyone of these 3 stars, the Native will be a leading actor as 
a villain. lf Jupiter is also connected then the Native will be a 
popular acto as a hero. 


SIMHA LAGNA 


Simha is the 5th house of the zodiac covering 30°, 
containing stars Maka, P.Palguni and 14 of Uthira. The lord of 
Simha rasi is Sun. Simha that ts Leo is a hot. dry. masculine. 


barren and bestial sign. Simha borns will always be active. They 
will have the first place in any walk of life. They will always be 
connected with Government or policians for some reason or the 
other. If Sun is depesited in the star Jyeshta and conjunct with 
Venus or Mars within 2°, the Native will be a leader in politics 
and also a rich person. Iflagna lord Sun is deposited in the stars 
Punarvasu, Vistiaka, F.pbadhra and at the same time, Venus lord 
of 10th, connected to Moon, in any manner, the Native will be 
running after politicians without any status and waste their time 
till the end of their life. Their relations with brothers will be happy 
and good. Father and Mother relations will not be a happy or 
favourable one. Certain Leo borns will lose their father at a very 
young age. If father is alive difference of opinion will be there. If 
Mars-Sun are deposited in the star or sub of Punarvasu, 
Vishaka, P.badhra, father and son will shoot (kill) each other or 
father will kill the son or the son will kill the father. This position 
to be strengthened- Saturn/Mars aspect should be there. 


If any planet deposited in the star Mrigasira-Chaithra- 
Dhanishta during their dasa/fbukthi ,they will suffer through 
diseases in heart, tooth, by health problems etc. Their 
profession will be very much affected. Any planet deposited in 
the stars Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badhra during their dasa 
bukthi. the Native will lose his money heavily in horse race, 
lottery tickets, gamblings like cards and other cheap 
entertainments. lf Sun, the lord of lagna is deposited in 
Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badhra, they will be involved in love 
affairs, meet with failure in love aftairs, lose their money and 
finally they will be put to shame. All said so far, is for 
youngsters. if aged, love affairs - failures - and disgrace will be 
on account of an aged woman. If lagna lord sun is deposited in 
the stars of Rohini-Hastha-Sravana with connection to Jupiter 


220) 


and having Saturn aspect to either Sun or Jupiter, the Native will 
always talk lies, always talkative, always interfere in others talk, 
and involve voluntarily in others matters. Naturally, all others will 
call this Native a useless fellow. They will never come up in life. 


Any planet deposited in any one of the 6 stars Aslesha, 
Jyesta, Revatny, Bharani, P.Palguni, Poorvashada and at the 
same time, lagna lord Sun 1S connected to houses 2-10-9-11, 
then during Mercury dasa or Venus dasa, the Native earns an 
enormous wealth, have avery high status with name and fame 
and lead a prosperous life. Likewise. Leo persons if born in the 
Sta's Pushya, Anuradha, U.bacihra, the Native will earn te be 
very rich But will be affected by diseases like diabetes, paralytic 
attacks, pain over legs, tecth ache and so on. Any planet 
deposited in the star other than the above mentioned, the Native 
will have a leadiiy lifé But not a very high income. Even this 
leading life will not be an appreciable cone, in terms of status 
name, fame, popularity in politics, and so on. 


Leo Natives will have good prufits through professions like 
Transport, Press related jobs. Steal, Textiles. Silver yam. 
Cotton, Machineries, Tools, Electrical, watch shop. 


Leo Natives will end in loss if they take upto profession life 
Finance, Ghit company, Groceries, rice trade. 


Leo Natives, if they desire to do independent business, the 
following trades will give very good mrofits auditor, lawyer 
engineer, tobacco, sarees, punting. astrolegy. palmisty, printing 
press. ladies dresses-bangles, medicines all products trom 
palmyra ee, and 50 on. 


Persons favourable and helpful to leo boms- Young age 
boys, astrologers, accountants, barbers, Government officials 
other than Police, contractors and so on. 


Persons not favourable and unhelpful to Leo borns- 
Brahmins, people from judiciary, very aged persons, young age 
girls, carpenters. The first child will not be a friendly one. 


Lucky numbers- 1 and 6 only, 
Lucky colour - Green. 
Lucky stone - Emerald 
Lucky days - Wednesday, Friday, Sunday 
Lucky directions- North and South. 


While constructing a house if they keep the main entrance 
door at the Norih or South, it will give happiness. The 4th child 
born to them male or female will favour luck and help in their old 
age. If they wish to have idol worship, they should worship 
“Sriman Narayana." 


KANYA LAGNA 


Kanya is the 6th house of the zodiac covering 30° and 
comprising stars Uthira 3/4, Hastha and Chithra 1/2. The lord of 
Kanya is Mercury. For persons born in Kanya lagna, friends are 
the biggest benefactors, in all respects. !f the triends are 
feminine folks, then kanya borns are happy. To have feminine 
friends, Moon lord of 11th should not be deposited in the stars 
Mrigasira, Ghaithra, Dhanishta, Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badhra 
or should not have connection with these stars. Moon i 
deposited in anyone of these stars or Moon conjunct with Mars, 
trends circle will never be a happy one. Relations with younger 


eee 


brothers, life partner (wife) and business partners, to be very 
happy, or to have special interest is almost a fare thing for 
Kanya borns. Jupiter- lord of 7th if deposited in his own stars 
Punarvasu, Vishaka, Poorvabadhra or Bharani, P.Palguni. 
Poorvashada and having 120° aspect by Saturn or Mars or 4-8 
aspect by Mars or 3-10 aspect by Saturn, then the Native will be 
murdered by his own wife. The Native if a female, will be 
murdered by her own husband. If Mercury, the lagna lord Is 
connected io houses 3-10-5, then the husband or wile cannot 
murder the other. But they will lead a life similar to living in a 
hell. 


Rohini-Hastha-Sravana stars are always beneficial to Virgo 
borns. Any planet deposited in Rohini-Hastha or Sravana and 
also connected te Venus, during that planet dasa, the profession 
will be going strong, income will be high, name, fame, happiness 
through friends, will take place. They will be able to set up a life 
as they plan. At the same time, lagna lord Mercury is also 
deposited in any of the stars Rohini-Hastha or Sravana bul 
without any connection to Mars by aspect or conjunction, all the 
beneficial results will be double and their name and fame wili 
spread to foreign countries. 


lf lagna lord Mercury is deposited in the stars Mrigasira, 
chaithra, Dhanishta and having aspect or conjunction with 
Saturn, then the Native will have no respectable rise in life, 
wandering here and there without any aim, develop enmity with 
brothers, and lose their Mother atso. They have a long life bul 
their profession will not be an admirable cone. They will carry 
some materials on the bicycle or by walking and sell by hawking 
from place to place. Or they will be working as Newspaper boys, 
who hop from house to house. 


223 


Lagna lord Mercury deposited in the stars Bharani, 
P.Palguni or Poorvashada or Mercury stationed in the 12th, or 
lagna lord Mercury deposited in the star Krithika, UWthira or 
Uthirashada or Mercury stationed in the 9th and Mercury 
connected to Venus or Sun, the Native will go abroad, become 
very popular and will be receiving honours from Government. 
Honoured by foreign Governments, the Native will stay for 
several years abroad, or become a permanent resident. As said 
above of Mercury, and tts connection with Saturn, the Native will 
live like a Saint respected by people all over the world. 


The most suited profession to kanya borns:- 


Printing press, Astrology, Accountant, Brokerage, 
Machinery, Mirror shops, Watch shops, Electrical-radio repair, 
trading in Tebacco, Tea, coffee, driving of taxi, auto, hand carl, 
photography, Research, Research and development, Music, 
Dance, comedian acting, music-tune setters, music flute player, 
and so on. Success and failure of the above said professions 
depends on the lord cf the 710th. If the lord of the 10th, who is 
Mercury himself, if deposited In the stars Rohini, Hastha or 
Sravana, success in all undertakings. And if the lord of the 10th, 
that is Mercury, if deposited in the stars of Pushya, Anuradha, 
U.badhra, Mrigasira-Chaithra, Dhanishta failures in all 
underlaking. Mercury when deposited in other stars, results will 
be midiings. Saturn if deposited in Rohini, Hastha or Sravana, it 
will be a love marriage and the newly weds will be very happy. It 
Jupiter is deposited in Aslesha, Jyeshta, Revathy and stationed 
accordingly In Cancer, Scorpio or Meena and conjunct with 
Moon or Mercury, the Native will have two wives. As said for 
Jupiter, if Venus also is in such a position, make the Native have 
two wives. 


224 


Lucky numbers - 2 and 5 only. 
Lucky colour - Green and white only. 
Lucky days - Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. 
Deity to be worshipped - “Srman Narayana" 


While constructing a house, entrance deer at north lacing 
north will be beneficial. For profession alsa they can have 
connections towards north direction. 


lf independent business, they can choose a profession like 
running a Library, Printing press, Godcewn to stcre materials, 
book shop-Paper mart, commission agency, newspaper industry 
and 50 on. 


THULA LAGNA 


Thula is the 7th house of the zodiac covering 30° and 
comprising stars chithra 1/2, Swathi and Vishaka 3/4. The lord 
af Thula is Venus. Persons born in Thula by themselves develop 
some sort of inferiority complex but come up through certain 
other planetary supports, All said, the lagna lord Venus is never 
a benefacter te thula berns. Any undertaking will have to face 
some obstacles before it ends successfully. Thula Borns can 
come up in life only if Venus ts deposited in the stars Mrigasira, 
Chaithra, Dnanishta and connected te Jupiter and Moon. Or any 
other planet deposited in stars Mrigasira, chaithra, Dhanishta 
and connected to Jupiter and Moon in any manner, also running 
the dasa during which period, Thula borns will surely reach a 
higher level in life. Any planet if deposited in the stars Bharani, 
P.Palguni, Poorvashada, subjected to Saturn aspect and 
running the dasa, during such period the Thula borns will lose 
their property and will fall to a life of disgrace. 


if lagna Lord Venus Is deposited in the 3rd or 4th quarter of 
Mrigasira and Mars or Venus or Sun Is deposited in Vishaka 4th 
quarter, during such of those dasa/bhuktl, the native will become: 
a epathy, have contacts abroad and become popular. The 
above planets, if deposited in Aslesha, the native will do , 
research upto Ph.D and have a profession at abroad 


Lagna Lord Venus, if deposited in tie stars Pushya, 
Pbhadra U.badhra and connected to Sun and Mars by 
conjunctions or aspect, the Native will take upto acting, They will 
develop friendship with women elder to their age and act if 
Ginema, drama, indulge im horse race, gambling and alcchol 
drinks. 


Thula borns will have good and amicable wives. But wives 
may be adamant and get anger even for a trivial matter. But 
they vill be chaste. Mars lord of 7th, if deposited in the stars of 
Sun, any act of the Wife will be a nuisance and painful to the 
husband. Ifthula borns ar to have a good status in life, lagna 
lord Venus should be deposited in the stars Rohini. Hastha or 
Sravana and have 120° aspect from Mars, or have 4-8 aspect 
from Mars. With such a planetary position, here the dhana lord 
Mars, should have no connection at all with stars Bharani, 
P.Palguni, Poorvashada, Krithika, Uthira, Uthirashada. Then 
only, the Thula Native will have a happy and prosperous life, as 
explained above. Further, Mars if deposited in Krithika, Uthira, 
Uthirashada, the Native may have a ven/ comfortable life but will 
encounter with ill health, accident, short life and a nagging wife. 


Professions suited to Thula borns Textiles, all connected to 
oils, Hotel, plastic goods, cinema, drama, playing of drums in an 
orchestra, transport, commissicn basis, real estates, agriculture. 


eed 


trading in utensils, flower, fruit merchants. fancy goods. shue 
mart. lottery ticket, groceries, chillies alone and so on will give a 
very good profit, Partnership business. joint ventures will give a 
very good profit. 


Lucky number - 1-2-7 only. 
Lucky days - Tuesday is a good day - gives profit. Monday 
brings name and tame. Thursday brings success afler meeting 
with some difficulties. Wednesday. Friday. Saturday - All the 
three days give only loss and cause tension. 
Lucky colour - Red (coral) 
Deity to be worshipped - Murugan Subran orayn Swamy 
Lucky direction - West and Seuth 


Whita constructing a house the main emfrance cdlour shoud 
be fixed on WestorSouth To face Vastor south direct on, will 
give a happy and prosper sus famuly life. 


lf the Thuja Natives desire to hava indepandent business 
they can take up a profession like- Vine shop, cut piece store. 
marriage halls, sate of sarees, hotel. oil business. fruit juice stall. 
sweet stall and so on wall fetch: thern a good promt 


VRISCHIKA LAGNA 


Vrischika is the 8th house of the zodiac covering 307 and 
comprising stars Vishaka 1/4. Anuradha and Jyeshta. Mars is 
the lord of Vrischika It is 4 watery. and centipede sign. This sign 
is responsible for animals like pigs to gree birth to several young 
ones, some species of animals to lay thousands of eggs and 
this sign represents reptiles. scorpions, and Jeaches. Depending 
on Mars, the lord of Scorpio, where and now ! is stationed and 


e227 


or other planets stationed in Scorpio, ladies deliver 4 or 5 
children at one delivery or one person marries several wives. In 
herary, when one enquires about the availability of water, in a 
well, the lord of the 4th if stationed in Scorpio, for the astrologer 
to declare, that water, will surely be available, is reckoned from 
scorpio, it being a watery sign as well as a fruitful sign. Scorpio 
borns will not have the mind to spend much. They know the 
value of money. They are very economical fellows in every 
respect. Even when there are sufficient facilities, Scorpions live 
making very little use of these facilities. They are hard workers. 
They love their children very much, Scorpions donot mind the 
mistakes made by their children but love them. if Mars the lagna 
lord is in the star of Saturn, the affection towards children will 
not be there. But this level will be for a very few Scorpions only. 
The traits of Scorpio will be as explained above in a broad 
sense. Lagna lord Mars if deposited in his own stars and 
conjoined with Jupiter and Mercury, Scorpions will live as 
crorepathys. But at the same time, the Native will have one 
health problem or the other. Scorpions will not have much 
interest towards their father and Mother, or they might consider 
their views as hindrance. In general, Scorpions will not have a 
mind to give all comforis to his/her parents at their old age. They 
will marry a good looking or beautiful wife and be happy in the 
company of the children. If Venus is deposited in Mrigasira, 
Ghaithra or Dhanista, the wife will be sickly or she will have a 
strong difference of opinion. 


(tf Mars, the lagna lord is deposited in the star Aslesha, 
Jyeshta, or Revathy, the Native to fetch even a very small profit, 
will undergo all sort of difficulties. This love to father may be 
less, But will not be wanting in affection. Regarding higher 
education, Scorpions will go for a professional course. Saturn 


228 


lord of 4th if deposited in the stars of Sun, and conjoined with 
Jupiter, or Mars- lagna lord if deposited in the stars of Sun and 
conjoined with Jupiter, they wil have higher education. Asiesha. 
Jyeshta, Revathi, Achini, Hastha, Sravana - these six stars are 
always harmful to scorpions. Any planet deposited in any of 
these 6 stars, and run the dasa, the Native suffers financial loss, 
ill health, accidents, troubles in profession, loss of parents and 
s0 on. Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badhra, Krithika, Uthira, 
LHhirashada, these 6 stars are always favourable to them. Any 
planet deposited in any one of these 6 stars and run the dasa, 
the Native enjoys all good results like name, fame, status 
increase in children, increase in income and so on. 


Profession: Medical, electrical, steel materials, 
Government jobs, milts, textiles, textiles of superfine quality, 
mechanical, jobs connected to use of fire, to take up 
Government tender works. To join army, IPS, IAS. 
utensils-vessels, cast iron and so on, are favourahle. 


scorpions do not like to be a lawyer, accauniant. newspaper 
items, any thing connected to arl and arlistic works. Majority of 
ocorpions hate astrology. 


Lucky days - Sunday and Thursday only. 
Lucky colours - Yellow and Orange 
Lucky stones - Any stone of yellow colour or stone of dull red 
colour or only gold - separately. 


Scorpions desiring to have independent profession can take 
up to homeopathy, all types of electricals, steels, furnitures, 
pawn Broking, teaching, sale of rice, sugar, as tuition masters to 


children, share market, contracts, chit funds, running of clubs- 
all these will give therm good profits. 


DHANUR LAGNA 


Dhanus is the 9th house of the zodiac covering 30° and 
comprising stars Moola, Poorvashada and Uthirashada 1/4. 
Jupiter is lord of Dhanus. They always think good of everything, 
They worship their parents as Gods. Lagna lord Jupiter, if 
deposited in the stars of Mrigasira, Chaithra, Dhanishta, the 
Native will not be helpful to parents. The rest of the Dhanur 
borns are benefactors to their parents. The first child male or 
female born to Dhanur borns will not be helptul. For some, the 
child born will give all sors of troubles. Regarding marriage, 
Dhanur bems will have two wives or will have no marriage at all. 
In case married, bul one wife, it will be a rare thing to see them 
lead a happy married life. Mercury lord of 7th, if deposited in the 
stars Krithika, Uthira, Uthirashada, Punarvasu, Vishaka, 
P.badhra, then alone husband-wife relation will be a happy one. 
In general, Dhanur Natives, will never have happy and 
satisfactory married lite. Mercury lord of 7 if deposited in 
Mrigasira, Ghaithra or Dhanishta, and having connection with 
Moon, wife will be cruel and also pose a threat to the very life of 
Dhanur Native. Partnership business, Joint venture will always 
be very harmful. Lagna lord Jupiter, if deposited in the stars 
Bharani, P.Palguni or Poorvashada and connected to Saturn in 
any manner, the Native will be a crorepathy. But will always 
have a prolonged disease or ill health. But at the same time, 
they will emerge successfully in any undertakings. If lagna lord 
Jupiter is deposited in Aslesha, Jyeshta or Revathy and also 
have Saturn aspect, then longevity of the Native will be short 
life. At the same level, if Jupiter is connected to Mars, the Native 


will be murdered, or meet with accident of face, several untold 
sutferings. For Dhanur borns, any planet deposited in the 6 stars 
Krithika, Uthira, Uthirashada, Bharani, P.Palguni, Poorvashada- 
and also run the dasa, the Native will have good and favourable 
results. Likewise, any planet deposited in the stars Punarvasu, 
Vishaka or P.badhra and run the dasa, the Native will construct 
several buildings, have several vehicles- that is become fleet 
owners, and have vast area ot land. Similarly planets deposited 
in other 18 stars (i.e other than the 9 mentioned above} will not 
bring any name, fame, wealth and so on. 


Mercury lord of 10th if deposited in Krithika, Ulhira or 
LHhirashada and also run the dasa, Dhanur borns will enter 
politics in full swing and reach higher posts. Other Dhanur 
borns, will have higher education, go abroad and enter into 
profitable professions. For Dhanur borns, higher education is a 
natural gift When other planets also are favourable for 
education, the Native will reach beyond the boundaries of 
education. Unity amongst brothers will not be a happy one. Love 
affairs will always be problematic. The Native will get nothing by 
way of lotlery, horse race and so on. Mental inclination of 
Dhanur Borns is- they will always be eager to read some thing. 
Comforts through vehicles will always be there. 


Profession- Commission agency, all things related to Press, 
Newspaper, Machinery, Tobacco, Tea, selling of eatables like 
fast foods, Finance and so on. If it is a paid job, it will be Bank, 
Cashier, Ambassadors, Government pleader, IAS officers, 
Judge all these will be favourable. Natives whose birth charts 
arte middlings will take up to clerical cadres, news readers in 
TV/Radio, all works connected to arl & culture- all these will give 
profit and popularity. 


Dhanur borns, if they wish to take upto independer:| 
profession they can have Printing press, sale of cycle spare 
paris, export of Tea, tobacco, Preparation of fast foocs. 
commission agency, job works through Government tenders, 
construction of Godowns and letting it for rent, construction of 
marriage halls (Kalyana mantapa), trading in rice, Sugar- at! 
these will give gocd profits. 


Lucky numbers - 3 and 8 only. 
Lucky colours - White, Blue. 
Lucky days - Sunday, Thrusday, Saturday only. 
Lucky direction - North. 


Dhanur Borns, when they construct a house, the main 
entrance door fixed in the north facing north direction, will give 
permanent happiness to the family. 


MAKARA LAGNA 


Makara is the 10th house of the zodiac covering 30° and 
comprising stars Uthirashada 3/4, Sravana and Dhanishta 1/2. 
Lord of Makara is Saturn. Natives born in Makara lagna are 
leading research workers, leading scientists, and philosophers. 
When Saturn the lord of lagna and Venus lord of the 10th are 
afflicted, then alone, what is said above of Makar borns will go 
wrong. Otherwise in general, Makara is the house of Scientists 
and Philosophers. Children born to Makara Natives are 
benetactors and with appreciable qualities. For Makara Natives, 
if Moon is deposited in Bharani, P.Palguni, Poorvashada then 
alone, they have an exceptionally good wife. If Moon is 
deposited in Pushya, Anuradha and Uthirabadhra then also a 
happy life with the wife. Other than the 6 stars mentioned above, 


if Moon deposited in any of the other 21 stars, life with wife will 
always be a problem. That is, wife will have difference ot 
opinion, or sickly or disobedient, or to cause two wives and so 
on. For some Natives, if Moon is deposited m Mrigasira, 
Chaithra or Dhanishta and conjoined with Sun or bom in a 
Amavasya day (New Moon day}, the wile will not hesitate to 
murder her husband. Similarly of the same planetary set up, the 
husband will not hesitate to murder his wife. 


For Makara borns the 6 stars Bharani, P.Palguni, 
Poorvashada, Pushya, Anuradha and U.badhra are always 
favourable. Any planet deposited in these stars and also runs 
the dasa, the Native enjoys a happy and prosperous life. Lagna 
lord Saturn, when deposited in the stars Bharani, P.Palguni, or 
Poorvashada and without any connection to Sun, the Native 
from cradle to grave will have a life of plenty, comforl, good 
children, respect, name, fame, status and so on. 


Makara worns relations with brothers will always be a 
question mark. Jt will be a rare thing to see the brothers friendly 
and united. Mars and Jupiter if deposited in the stars Krithika, 
Uthira, Ulhrirashada and also runs the dasa, brothers amongst 
themselves will be killing each other, and also indulge in all soris 
of cruel acts. 


Makara borns will not be cbedient to their parents. Makara 
borns will not help their parents in their old age. 


Lagna lord Saturn, if deposited in the stars of Krithika, Uthira 
or Uthirashada and having 4-8 aspect from Mars, the Native will 
lead a lite of disgrace from the very birth indulging in dacoity, 
robbery, murder, printing counterfeit currency, out law, traitor to 


233 


the Governmeitt and so on. Research findings are the single 
achievements of Makara boms. Lagna lord Saturn if deposited 
in his own stars Pushya, Anuradha or U.badhra and having 120° 
aspect with Mercury and Jupiter or having 5-9 aspect from 
Jupiter, their findings will be a great surprise to the entire world, 
and evolve as a great genius and or fundamental research 
scientists. 


Profession- Cinema, TV, Transpori, Trading in Gold, Silver 
Astrology, Research, Cricket, Textiles, all connected to yarn, 
story writing, drama, acting, playing of Drum instruments- all 
these will give good profits. 


Lucky numbers- 1 and 5 only. 
Lucky colours * White and Blue only. 
Lucky stone - Diamond. 

Deity - Lord Venkateswara. 


Makara borns while constructing house, should have main 
entrance door at South and West, Facing South and West 
direction. Door should NOT BE FIXED separately only for the 
south or only tor the West. That is the outermost side will have 
the main entrance door facing South and the immediate next 
Inner door to face West. In such a4 house, constructed as said 
above, Makara borns will live a very happy and prosperous life. 


KUMBHA LAGNA 


Kumbha is the 11th house of zodiac covering 30° and 
comprising of stars Dhanishta 1/2, Sathabisha, and P.badhra 
3/4. For Kumbha lagna persons, parents to be benefactors will 
be a rare thing. That is generally, Kurmbha borns will not be 


234 


benefitted by their parents. Equally children also will not be 
benefited by parents i.e. Kumbha lagna parents. Mercury lord of 
5th, if deposited, in the stars Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badnhra, 
then alone, children will be benefactors. Children will be well off 
throughout their life but Kumbha parents are not an amicable 
type. Mercury lord of 3th, if deposited in Bharani, PPalguni or 
Poorvashada having 3-10 aspect of Saturn and having no 
aspect or conjunction of Jupiter, Kumbha borns will be murdered 
by their children. Or the children will take away all the properties 
and drive the parents aut of the house. 


Kumbha Natives will have very good wives. But Sun should 
noi be deposited in the stars Bharani, PPalguni or Poorvashada 
and having ne connection to Venus by aspeci or conjunction- 
then only Kumbha Natives will have excellent wife. 


For Kumbha Native Mrigasira, Chaithra, Dhanisnta, 
Punarvasu, Vishaka, P.badhra- these 6 stars are favourable. 
Any planet deposited in any one of these 6 stars and also run 
the dasa, the Native will have a happy life, name, tame, 
prosperity, status and so on. At the same time, if lagna lord 
saturn if deposited in the stars Aslesha, Jyeshta, Revathy and 
also connected to Venus in any manner, the Native live a life of 
disgrace, till the end of his life. The most benefactors to Kumba 
horns are friends, the general public, and thet! own tongue- that 
is diplomacy. Brahmins will always hold them in high esteem. 
Likewise, Kumbha horns also will hold the Brahmins in high 
esteem. Mercury lord of 5th, if deposited in the stars of Saturn 
and stationed in the 2nd house, they will be talking rubbish and 
useless all the while. They will pretend as if they know 
everything on earth. No act of them will be solid and useful. 


235 


Love affairs will turn cutto be a problem. It is better they do 
not involve in love affairs. if Sun is deposited in Mrigasira, 
Ghaithra or Dhanishta and connected toe Jupiter, Kumbha Native 
will be very popular in public [fe with name, fame. They will 
enter politics and reach a very high pest. They will also have an 
excellent wife and live a beautiful life. If lagna lord Saturn is in 
the stars of Punarvasu. Vishaka or P.badhra and connected to 
Moon, Kumba borns will be a crorepathy. Or lagna lord Saturn, if 
deposited in the stars Rohini, Hastha or Sravana and have 5-9 
aspect of Jupiter, the Native will emerge as a crorepathy but 
they will have some ill health throughout. To be free and clear of 
what is said, Mercury should have no connection in any manner. 


Profession: For Kumbha borns, the favourable professions 
are building constructions, Engineering, Transport. Music, 
drama, electrical, finance, chit company, rice, sugar, CID, IPS, 
defence and so on. 


Lucky colours - Only yellow. 
Lucky numbers - 3 only . 
Lucky stone - Coral. 
Deity to be worshipped - Murugan - Subramanya. 


Kumbha borns if they go In for independent business- 
Finance, chit funds, contract works, groceries, gold ornaments 
shop, learning vedas, veda manthras, astrology etc. will be 
profitable to them. 


For Kumbha boms north and south are favourable 
directions. The Native when they construct a house, they should 
fix the main entrance door connecting north and east, commonly 
known as Eesanya Such houses bring prosperity to the family 


236 


MEENA LAGNA 


Meena is the 12th house of the zodiac containing 30° and 
comprising the stars P.badhra 1/4, U.-badhra and Revathy. Lord 
of Meena is Jupfter. Meena borns always think good and noble 
for others. They are highly respected by others. They have a 
good family. They are selfless. They sacrifice for others. For 
others good and .for the welfare of the public they will fight 
against the Government. There will be some court affairs 
between the Native and the Government, every now and then 
but finally the Native will emerge victoriously. A general view is 
that, Meena berns will have two wives, but it will be so only 
when Mercury is deposited in his own stars Aslesha, Jyeshta or 
Revathy or Mercury deposited in 3rd and 4th quarler of Mars- 
then only two wives. Or the same Mercury, if deposited in 
Poorvapalguni, the first wife either by death or by divorce, the 
Native will marry a second wife. Planetary set ups other than 
explained above, will not make the Native have two wives. 
These are all general rules. In a majority of the cases, for 
Meena Natives the 7th house, that is the life partner will not be a 
happy lot. For Meena Natives, the youngsters they are sisters, 
they will be dead enemies and give all sorts of troubles. If Venus 
is deposited in Mrigasira, Chaithra, Dhanishta and P.badhra 4th 
quarter, then no problem ait all from younger sisters. 


For the Meena Native, more than the father, it ig the mother, 
whe will have difference of opinion, more £0 after marriage. 


If lagna lord Jupiter has no connection with Venus or not at 
all deposited in the stars of Venus, the Native enjoys a very 
happy life. If Lagna lord Jupiter is deposited in Punarvasu, 
Vishaka or P.badhra and having 4-8 aspect from Mars or Mars 


deposited in Mrigasira, Chaithra or Dhanishta and having 5-9 
aspect from Jupiter, the Native will lead a political life and 
become a popular LA, Minister and so on. Further, they will 
also be selected for |AS or as a Governor or Ambassador and 
so on. [he Native will not have happy relations with younger 
sister, girls of younger age (but not daughters). Any type of 
vehicle they purchase will not be a satisfactory one or very often 
ft will have to be repaired. 


Daughters of Meena Natives will always be helpful to their 
father/mother. The Native by their daughters have a place of 
pride. Sons not left out All said about Sons and daughters, 
Meena Natives shoukd not be bom in the stars Bharani, 
P paigunt or Poorvashada. 


Profession: Finance, bank, contracts, high quality textiles, 
hotel, 5 star hotels, trading in rice, sugar, IAS, Municipal 
councillors, panchayat presidents, minister, judge, heavy 
industries, construction of temples, choultries and so on are 
profitable to Meena Natives. 


Lucky numbers - 1fone} only. 
Lucky days - Tuesday, Monday, Thursday. 
Lucky stones - yellow stones. 
Deity to be worshipped - Oakshinamoorthy. 
Lucky direction - North. 


Meena Native while constructing a house, should fix the 
main entrance door facing north, which will give permanent 
happiness to the family. 


c38 


Meena Natives, if they wish to take up independent 
business, then trading in rice, sugar, jewellary shop, finance, 
grocery etc. will give them good profits. 


Salient points : Sublord the Supremo 


We have so far discussed about planets, how they act, their 
aspects, their conjunctions, qualities of the houses, the nature of 
the 12 bhavas, the general nature of the 12 lagna from Mesha to 
Meena and also about the sublords. Of all these, the suddivision 
arising out of the 9 divisions of a star, the lord of each 
subdivision called as the sublord is the most powerful one to 
operate and move the events of all matters in one's life from 
cradle to grave was explained through several examples. 


What is a Sublord? Itis again explained clearly as below. 


In a birth chart, according to birth time, as Moon stationed in 
a star, we say, the dasa starting of a planet and the balance 
dasa of that planet available as year-month and days. If one is 
bom in Sathabisha star, we calculate the balance of Rahu dasa 
at birth, followed by Jupiter dasa, then Saturn dasa and so on till 
the end of his life. 


In the same manner, according to birth time, allthe 12 lagna 
bhavas starting from a lagna, every other bhava respectively will 
arise in a house, and in that house in a star, and of the 9 
divisions of that star- in one division- that is called subdivision- 
which is always a permanent one, and read as a 
sign-degree-minute. As explained, starting from lagna, all the 12 
bhavas will rise in a sign-degree-minute and read as 
sign-star-sub. For example, if a person is born in Mesha lagna in 


11°)" - it means- 


Mars house- 1. Mars house 
2. Kethu slar 
3. Mercury sub- that is sublord. 


lt is this sublord Mercury, which tells everything good or bau 
ter the lagna- that is Mesha lagna born. The dasa/bukthi that we 
calculate from Moon- the dasa and bukthi lords will be under the 
dictates of this bhava sublord. Therefore, for our understanding 
of the bhava rising as explained sbove, here Kethu is the dasa 
lord and Mercury is the Bukthi lord. This Bukthi lord is called as 
sublord. 


A Native as per his birth time, the Moon transiting in a star, 
we work out the dasa/bukthi, which will be changing in the cyclic 
order on the basis of 120 years Vimshothan dasa. Bul the dasa 
lord and bukthi lord arising out of a lagna bhava will never 
change but remains a constant one. Likewise, for all the 12 
bhavas. starling from lagna - every house - that is every bhava 
will rise in a certain degree-minute-second which is again to be 
understood as dasa lord and obukthi lord who are 
constant-permanent and never undergoes a change. This never 
changing bukthi lord is called as Sublord. Likewise for the 12 
houses (bhavas). we will have 12 sublords, that is one sublord 
for each house. Which house- bhava matter is under probe 
study or analysis, that bhava sublord, what ORDERS he has 
given for execution for that parlicular house, has to be carried 
out without a single mistake by the dasa/bukthi lords of 
Vimshothari system. 


240 


For example, a Mesha lagna or any other lagna, the 7th 
house is the house of marriage. Here the 7th bhava sublord is 
the SUPREMO to declare whether the marriage is promised or 
hot, or more than one wife and so on- in a clear cut manner- an 
order to be executed at the right time. That is, the 7th sublord- 
the SUPREMO is empowered to tell Yes or No, at very birth 
itself, which is very similar to the quota allotted in a ration card. 
This sublord is very decisive to set the time frame of an event, 
and on the dictates of this sublord, the dasa/bukthi lords under 
Vimshethari system, will celebrate the marriage, or deny the 
marriage or give more than one wife and so on. Likewise from 
lagna, all the 12 sublords of the 12 bhavas, what matter has 
been decided to be offered by that bhava sublord will be carried 
out without a single mistake by the Vimshothari dasa/bukthi 
lords 


1. That is sublord of every individual bhavas have a well 
designed and predetermined results stored in that bhava well in 
advance, at the very birth itself. 


2. Vimshothari dasa/bukthi/anthara lords under the dictates 
of the bhava cuspal sublords, will execute the matter-events as 
per the time frame schedule without asingle mistake. 


This pertains to longevity, marmiage, no marriage, child birth, 
job, business, profit cr loss, earnings, status and so on of 
several good or bad contained in several of the mundane 
matters. 


Astrology should be made known to the entire world. 
through bhava sputa and graha sputa as per Krishnamurti 
Padhathi. When Astrology is subjected to continuous research 


241 


as Was made by our beloved Guruji Late Sri. K.S.K. and brought 
to this world, the timing cf an event matter, can be foretold 
precisely to the very day and date of Occurrence without a 
mistake. Further according to the dasa/bukthi, we can also 
foretell very clearly the nature of events te come. But one thing- 
the birth chart that we take up for prediction,, must be erected 
strictly according to KP, to the correct birth time. When such a 
birth chart from which we make predictions, will be very correct 
to the minute. Other than what is said so far, by other levels and 
methods, predictions cannot be made so precisely and 
decisively to the minutes. 


Birth charts are made of rasi chakra in which the 9 planets 
are filled up in the 12 houses. This type of rasi charts do not 
have the bhava sputa and graha sputa. With a rasi char 
predictions can never be made accurately. Predictions made will 
be broad approximates, taking into consideration the lords of the 
12 houses only. in the immediate above pages, the 12 lagnas 
from Mesha te Meena are explained which are of a general 
nature, butcan never be a specific tool for an exact prediction. 


For example, a person gives the birth chart of his son or 
daughter to know the time of marriage. If that birth chart is 
prepared strictly in accordance with KP. then it will be possible 
to know what the 7th cusp sublerd has to say regarding 
marriage, what orders it will give, and based on that when we 
calculate the dasa/bukthi, we can pinpoint and tell the very day 
and date of marriage. On the other hand, from the rasi chart and 
the planets therein, we can predict the time of marriage on the 
basis of lord of 7th, the current dasa/oukthi lord, to an 
approximate level only. Because from a rasi chart, it is not 
possible to know anything about the 7th cusp sublord, and what 


242 


this 7th sublord has to say regarding marriage. Naturally 
predictions made from a rasi chart, the timing of events will vary 
from the said year or month. The predictions may or may not 
come correct. The very marriage may not take place aft all. 
When the marriage does not take place according to the 
predictions made, several reasons will also have to be told. 
Therefore, when the sublord is properly judged and applied, 
there will be no chance for the prediction to go wrong. Hence 
the sublord is the true and fundamental level, to begin with an 
analysis of a birth chart. If we are to apply this sublord as per 
KP, there are several stages to which our attention should be 
given and they are- 


1. The chart given to us should be a correct one. 
2. The birth time given should be verilied to ascertain whether 
the birth time given is right or wrong. 
3. From the birth chart, which bhava is analysed for, what matter 
that bhava sublord should be judged and applied properly. 
4. For such a deep analysis, the consultant should cocperate. 
The consultant should pay the consulting fees. 


In our day to day actual practice, such a deep analysis is not 
made. Under such circumstances, even when arithmetical part 
of the chart is made thoroughly, the predictive part is a failure 
because, the sublord is not judged and applied properly along 
with other significators which are again applied for the timing of 
events- it is here the prediction goes wrong for the simple 
reason- inefficiency and because of this inefficiency, the whole 
of astrology becomes a laughing matter. 


On account of one's inetticiency, a defective approach, the 
KP theory cannot be blamed. The theory is very sound. Even 


243 


the sages of the past has not predicted an event to the precise 
day and date. But by this sublord theory of KP, timing cf event 
can be accurately fixed to the day and date. There is no other 
method to predict an event by which the timing of event can be 
fixed. Predictions that have come true has been explained 
through example charts in the coming pages. It is easy to write 
in praise of KP- But to icllow KP one needs experience, 
efficiency and ability to apply the principles. 


The truth- that lies in KP, to be brought out, needs a 
scientific and systematic way of working. There is no short cut in 
KP method. There is no methed other than KP to pinpoint the 
timing of events. All cover the world the intelligentsia has taken 
up KP, as they have found the awe-inspiring truth, that is the 
sublord, the most useful tool in prediction. Of those, who are 
mentally lazy, cannet think of KP. 


How to predict when a Nirayana Bhava Chakra Is nat 
made but only a Rasi Chakra chart is available. 


1. Note down the time when a consultant approaches you 
and hands aver the rasi chakra chart. 


2. As you go through the rasi chart, his day of birth, star-rasi 
and lagna will tally very near to the day-star-rasi and the lagna 
rising, when you received the chart. That is consultant's Ruling 
Planets at birlh and the Ruling Planets at the time when the 
consultant hands over tis rasi chart will be more or less the 
same 


244 


Example 


Gn 22-7-92 Wednesday, one 39 year old lady, consulted me at 
3 PM. 


Her lagna- Rishaba-Venus 
Rasi- Mithuna-Mercury 
otar- Punarvasu-Jupiler 
Day(Birth)- Friday-Venus 
Date of Birth 10-7-1953. 


Geing through the rasi chart RPs on 22-7-92 at 3 PM 


Lagna - Vrischika - Mars 

Rasi - Meena - Jupiter 

otar - Revathy - Mercury 
Day - Wednesday - Mercury 


From the above 2 APs, it is seen Mercury and Jupiter are 
well connected. Venus and Mars has nothing to say. On that 
day Rasi lord Jupiter was moving in P.Palguni - Venus. 


Therefore, the consultant's - Birth day: rasi - star when 
verified, tallied with 22-7-92- Day-Rasi-Star, her = star 
Punarvasu-Mithuna rasi- Friday- Rishaba lagna is confirmed. 
That is the chart prepared with lagna rising, in Rishaba is 
correct. Further while verifying at 3 PM lagna was rising in 
Vrischika. Lord is Mars. This Mars does not tally at the RP level 
relevant to the birth chart. But that lady's Rishaba lagna was 
found rising in Mrigasira 1st pada. Therefore, now one can 
observe that Mars has connection to the RPs. Thus from the 
RP's one can ascertain whether the lagna at birth is conect or 
incorrect. 


246 


3. After the RPs at birth are verified, we should next work 
out the dasa bukthi, upto the current level to know which dasa 
and bukthi is operating. Then note down the star occupied by 
the dasa lord and bukthi lord. Here our observation should be, 
that the dasa lord may be owner of any house or houses but tf it 
is deposited in the stars of owners of houses 5 and 8, then the 
results will be an unfavourable one. At the same time, if the 
bukihi lord is deposited in the stars of owners of houses 
2-10-11, then the unfavourable results will be somewhat less. 
Anthara lord will always offer the results in accordance with 
bukthi lord. Anthara lord when deposited in a star never offers a 
result as per the dictates of the star lord. An event to take place 
is carved out by the dasa lord and bukthi lord and that event is 
completed to the final stage by the anthara lord. Anthara lord 
never acts according to the star deposit, he is in. For example if 
a marriage is to take place, the dasa lord when deposited in the 
stars of house owner or occupants of 2-7-11-3 and at the same 
time bukthi lord also is deposited in the stars of 2-7-11-3-5-8-1 
and the dasa bukthi is also on, this anthara lord, it is enough if 
he is the owner of 2-7-11-3-5. This anthara lord even if he is in 
the stars of 6-12, he is capable of completing the marriage. But 
this anthara lord if he is the owner of 6-12, then he is not eligible 
to operate the marriage event. If anthara lord is in the stars of 
2-7-11, certainly a plus point. What is said about anthara lord is, 
only for anthara lord for an event, when anthara time is 
operating. An event gathers momentum by dasa bukthi lords 
and the event is completed by anthara lord. Short duration times 
alone are always allotted to anthara lords. Therefore, anthara 
lords do net have sufticient time to operate according to Its star 
deposit position. The anthara lords, at their disposal have 
between 6 days fo 6 months From the above points, we should 


246 


arrive at the spread of an event to its end of a Native, as to how 
he qualifies for that event or several events. 4 


4. The lagna lord when pesited in stars of lords of 
2-3-10-11, and having Jupiter aspects and not at all tenanting 
8-12 houses, the Native of this lagna is qualified for a 
time-spread of favourable results. If the dasa bukthi lords 
current at the time also having signification to houses 
2-3-6-10-11 and connected with Karaka planets (Chief 
significators}, one can boldly predict a favourable result on a 
time spread about the Native's profession, the profits and other 
connected matters. Lord of 10th, if posited in the stars of lords of 
houses 2-3-6-10-11, the dasa bukthi in current has also to 
signify 2-3-6-10-17, one can still confidently predict a little more 
extensively. 


5. The lagna lord when posited in the stars of lords of 
houses 5-8-12, the quality (degree of excellence) of results, the 
time spread of events all will be reduced to a dismal level. In 
case the dasa bukthi lords are posited in the stars of favourable 
significators, linked to Karaka planets also, then one will be able 
to predict only a middle level result and never a result of high 
hopes. Any one who predicts without reckoning the status of the 
lagna lord, but of the current dasa buklhi lords who are either 
posited in stars of favourable significators or being owners or 
exalted, then such a prediction will ultimately fail miserably. 


6. For a Native, trom cradle to grave, it is the lagna lord who 
is the prima facie to offer positive or negative results. If this 
lagna lord is strong, the Native is blessed with a huge vessel 
And this huge vessel is filled up by dasa bukthi lords, who are 
on par with lagna lord, are posited’in the stars of favourable 


247 


significators. Needless to say, if the lagna lord is weak, the 
vessel with him is so small, the dasa bukthi lords also who are 
tuned to the level of the lagna lord fills this small vessel only in 
trickles. 


*. Therefore in the absence of a Nirayana bhava chart, 
sublords and so on bul only a rasi chakra charl with which a 
quick prediction has to be oftered- then study- 


The strength of the lagna lord. 
The strength of the lord of 40th. 
The strength of the lord of Dnana- 2nd house. 
The strength of the lord of Labha- 11th house. 


Ifthe above lords are subjected to 2-3-16-11 houses, predict 
favourable results. If subjected to 5-8-12 houses predict harmful 
results are foreseen. The Karaka planets (Chief signiticators) 
should also be studied to find out how they fit in the time spread 
of an event, relevant to the age of the Native that is young, 
middle or old age, and accordingly predictions to be talked. 


When a rasi chakra charl alone is made use of for 
prediction, the following points are to be considered. 


1. lf the lagna lord is a signiticator of 2-3-19-31 houses, the 
Native leads a comfortable life. 
2. lithe lagna lord is a significator of 1-6, he is a sickly person. 
3. Ifthe lagna lord is a significator of 4-2-10-11, the Native is a 
well qualified one during his educational career. 
4. lf the lagna lord is connected to 3-9-12, the Native will have 
foreign contacts. 
5. If the lagna lord is a significator of 5-1-9-12, and the lagna 


248 


iord if it be Saturn or Kethu tenancing the lagna, the Native will 
lead a spiritual life. 

6. Ifthe lagna lord signifies 6-11 -2, he will be ever rich. 

7, lf the lagna lord signifies 2-7-5, one will be after woman 
thinking that carnal pleasures alone are to be had. Generally 
Rishaba-Thula lagna born succumb to this thinking. 

8. If the lagna lord signifies 1 and 10 only, he will have a 
profession without a single profit. Neither loss will be there. The 
Native will not also have a steady rise in status. 

9. If the lagna lord is in the star of the 5-8-12, though born in a 
respectable and wealthy family, day by day his status gets weak 
and atlast lead a life of disgrace. 

10. If the lagna lord is in the star of the 5th, and the lagna lord 
debilitated with Saturn aspect, the Native will be wandering as 
a insane. 


11. If the lagna lord signifies 6-11, the Native has success 
and victory in all matters. 


12. lf the lagna and the lord of 10th are in the stars of 
2-t0-9-11-6 and also having connection with Sun, Mars, Jupiter, 
the Native will be a Minister. 


13. Ifthe lagna lord and the lord of 10th are in the stars of 
A-9-10-11-12 (without any connection to 5-8), the Native will 
study upto Ph.D and his profession will be with foreign contacts. 
The same reading will hold good for Sth lord. 


14. If the lagna lord ts in the stars of 8-12 and connected to 
the lord of 10th, the Native will be a thief. If Saturn is connected, 
he will be a clever thiet. |f Mars is connected he will be a dacoit 
and murderer. 


249 


15. Hf lagna lord, lord of 7th or lord of 2nd conjoined and 
posited in the stars of lord of 2-7 who be either Mercury or 
Jupiter, the Native will have more than one wife. 


16. Ifthe lagna lord is in the star of owners of 5-9 and 10th 
lord in the star cf owners of 9-4, the Native will be a monk or 
mendicant. 


17. Ifthe lagna lord is in the stars of owners of 4-11-12 and 
the lord of 4th is also in the stars of one of the owners of 
4-11-12, the Native will construct many houses. 


18. If the lagna lord is in the stars of the owners of 3-70. and 
lord of 10th is in the star of owner of 11th, the Native will be a 
leading musician. 


19. Ifthe lagna lord is in the star of owner of 5-11 and lord of 
1h in the stars of owners of 11-2-3, and the respective star be 
Venus, the Native will be an actor. 


2G. Here, ifthe lord of 7th also connected to the above said 
reading, his wife also be a cine actress. 


Therefore on the basis of lagna lord, the strength of the 
Native's chart should be taken inte account alongwith the 
observations of 2-10-11, for predictions. When such a prediction 
is made, generally the error factor will be minimum and the 
future events will prove true to the prediction. 


Of the 12 lagnas, whatever may be the lagna, planets in the 
stars uf the owners of 2-3-6-10-11, will always give favourable 
results. Planet? in the stars of the owners of 5-8-12 will always 


250 


dive harmful or unfavourable results. The dasa lords operating 
al the time of study. they being owners of improving houses and 
also in the stars of owners of 2-3-6-10-11, the favourable results 
to be offered is enhanced. If the dasa lords being the owners of 
5 4-12. but posited in the stars of owners of 2-3-6-10-11, the 
favourable results to be offered will be very much reduced. 


Houses 5-8-12 offer harmful results. But other than earning, 
profession, profit. savings and other material aspects, 8th nouse 
needs to be studied for longevity. For love affairs, pleasurable 
PiatsultS. arts. study of vedas, initiation to manthras, 5th house 
‘wecs to he studied. For investment, te go abroad, inclination tor 
philosophical thinking. expenditure on auspicious matters, 
house construction. purchase of vehicles. 12th house needs to 
te studied. Harmful results should be predicted only when 
74-12 houses operme conjoinily. Of the three 5-8-12 houses, 
Widwiiualty (Fat is 5 or 8 or 12, when they are connected to 


Strocurab.e acuses and ta which matter event the study is made, 
ef s.ch tnatters seneticial and happy results are to be foretold. 
mie dords af SH 12 hauses how they operale conjoint and 
Pact ov then separalely but cannected to favourable houses 
at Uprrale. are expiamned. 


Test for vxample, a Kumbha lagna, Current dasa lord 
Omer dln wher posited in the siar Aslesha, and either conjained 
wiih Saturn or aspected by Saturn, that planet as dasa lord :s 
connected to nouses 5-8-12 at one and the same time, 
Theredore that dasa lord running current, will offer without a 
Gealit omy armful resulis, This 1 how we should understand 
woalis meant by cperating in a conjoined manner, Next, yhen 
‘he lorcés of 5-B-12 houses cperate individually and separately 
 uxplaned. 


201 


Take for example. a Vrischika lagna, a planet posited in the 
stars Punarvasu Vishaka-Poorvabadhra and also runs the dasa 
it is connected to houses 2-5. If that planet is conjoined with or 
aspected by Sun or Mercury. that planet offers favourable 
results to 5th house maltlers and 2nd house matters. 


Therefore, though it cannot be denies that only harmful 
results are offered through 5-8-12 houses, but at the same time, 
the lords of these 5-4-+2 houses in their individual and separate 
circumstances subjected to favourable house levels, best results 
are offered in a big way. Any amount of writing cannet make cone 
understand what is explained above. Only — through 
astro experience, one can observe. ludge. and decide how to 
subject them. how they are stationed and then systematically 
arrive to their allotted end results. 


Similarly. ?-3-6-10 11 houses are to give only favourable 
results. No one can deny. But the 6th in the series in good for 
material benefits but very harmful to other a. .ters. This 6lh 
house, as explained tor 5-8-12 houses, this 6th alone, only 
when connected to 2-3-1G-11 houses, most favourable results 
are offered. And when connected te other noen-impreving 
houses, one can expect only harmful results Therefore only 
through practical experience. one can realise what all said 
abeve and much cannet be understood through writings in a 
book. If we start explaining through a book, we have to go for 
separate books for each house and then also it will be 
incomplete. 


The method of analysis in the absence of a Nirayana bhava 
chakra, sublord etc, but with a rasi chakra chart and the planets 
iherein, wherefrom an immediate prediction made has been so 


far explained, through which an above average level results 
alone can be foretold and also found true in the course of time, 


HORARY 


For a Natal chart, unless a correct birth time is given 
according to the longitude and the latitude, and the calculation 
pan for the chart is also made without any errors, no one can 
give a correct and true result. With an incerrect birth time and 
wrong calculations, no results ‘can be predicted truly and 
accurately. 


For example, twins are bern, with their birth time varying 
between 3 ta 10 minutes one may be male, the other may be 
female or both may be male or female. In such birtn. one may 
live and the other may die. Similarly, both may live or both may 
die. Gne may have the body organs properly ano the other may 
have some detect in some body organs. Une may study wer 
and the cther may not, in an inte:val of 3 to 10 minutes, we shail 
take Up a birth born af an interval of 3 minutes. the day's 
planetary positions ave the same at birth. Then what ts Ihe 
reason for such a change ol chffenng nature. Again in a Rospal 
al a given time 2 children are born tu 2 different mutinares, uri is 
a male and the other is a female, with severar chatige: Gefen 
the 2 children. For example. on 25-7. #2 al 305 PM lwo aothess 
delivered. One delivered a male baby and thre atriis: & fessseile 
baby. When a research Siudy was inadé@, Several tral: | ata te 
light. In a hospital at a given time when Wo mutha denied, 
one a male and the other a femalé@ and thai tov wth se. 7 
changes. What is the reason teruid this wality. The teat reason 
behind this change of the 2 chiidren burn ia two differesit 
mothers fies depending on the Sth Guspe ct the two dite 


mothers. and not because of the birth at the same place and é 
the same time. it.at is the time and place has nothing to do 
with one male bint! arid ‘he other female birth. 


When the mother s 5th cusp is subjected te deliver a male 
birth then a male anc f the Srh cusp ts subjected to deliver a 
female birth. accordin}y va child is born either a male or female. 
In a similar observation we find a mother delivering a male child 
and in another delivery the sarre mother delivering a female and 
in yet another delivery he same mother may give birth to twins. 
From this. we have t draw tne conclusion that from the 5th 
cusp of the mather, wr can say with confidence the birth details 
of the first child. but it is not possible to say about the 
subsequent births te the same mother The reason 15 the 5th 
cusp |/S a constant one. ‘herefore, to know the subsequent 
births ‘ne change thereof te say, making use of dasa'bukthi 
also will not be a correct approach Dasa may run from 6 to 20 
vears. Bukthi also may run for certain years. These dasa bukthi 
lords hav no power to cha %ge the sex of a child at birth. If that 
Is so. during Venus dasa ore should have only gitl child and in 
Siins dasa wily male births Therefore such vague views are 
merorrect After several ye:rs of research, hora technique of 
prediction came into existence, to bring cut in a clear cut 
manner, What could not be tead in a Natal chart which are at 
limes intricate and elusive When a woman consultant, who 
wishes to know (fe sex from the near expected delivery, through 
horary might have had earlipr deliveries. Even then, her present 
approact: fo know the sex of the child through horary, the Sth 
ssp oof tes horary chart will tall .eiy accurately whether the 
haley harn wai be male or female a tins Through this horary 
technique as prev lcted several beh  o4-e come true. They are 
Peopoewphwirsd? Not only chud bBo ooo tot visa matters like 


marriage, profession, profit-loss, accidents. house 
constructions, purchase of vehicle, court affalis, education. 
selling of goods, success & failures, job, promotion and still a 
gamut of events of the public can be foretold through horary 
clearly and very accurately. 


Horary answers the questions ot a consultant, based on the 
time he approaches the astrologer. For that given time, the 
lagna rising, the planetary set up of tha lagna are calculated and 
predictions are given. The Nadi Jyothisha systematised by our 
ancient intellectuals through their deep intuition is very much the 
same, with all the truths. This Nadi Jyothisha tells meticulously 
of one’s name and the name of his father and mother. The time 
of approach of the consultant was the basis to tabulate the 
several names of a rasi-day-star-lagna-Pianets in an orderly 
form and proportion them to serveral groups of births by run 
ancients through their divine insight. Several Nacis now 
available tell very correctly of the past. But not a sting! Naqi has 
told anything useful ver, accurately of the present and future 
What we know about us, o.' our past, and again to hear the 
same through a Nadi is a waste of time. Nadi that tells only 
about the past is only to impress upon the eager public who are 
taken for a ride over future lines through a brain wash. Some 
Nadi readers note down the full details of the consultant and 
then search out the palm leat, which is red. On our observations 
of the Nadi, our final understanding 's that planets in their 
groupings per day, certain names for that day are placed under 
the bex item in an order by cur ancients. What all said and done 
in the name of Nadi, was done through divine grace during the 
past This Nadi Jyothisha was not writlen during a small period 
of the past, but was written several centuries ago and was mac 
a compendium to suit a cerlain level. This level was maintamne=: 


255 


for several generations to come, but was found very much 
wanting to say anything about future. Further, Nadi reading also 
had a code language. Successors of Nadi readers many of them 
were ignorant to translate the code meaning, nor was there any 
directive in the Nadi leaves itself as to how decoding should be 
done. That is, the theory of decoding a Nadi write up was lost 
during the bygone ages as some secrecy was maintained, 
which was not properly handed over from generation to 
generation. 


Due to the above said reasons, a new technique for 
prediction known as Herary Asirclogy came into existence. 
From the Natal chart of a Native, a broad spectrum analysis 
can be make through dasa/bukthi, lagna, lagna lord, levels of 
2-19-41 houses and with the help of aspects, conjoints and so 
on. And the predictions can certainly be made in eliciting the 
truths under an average frame. 


But by horary, what matter is very important te the 
approaching consultant, can be accurately foretold upto the 
timing of event, specific to the day, date and time. What 
escapes our attention in a natal chart, that we miss the accuracy 
in prediction can be said with confidence by horary. The why ot 
it is explained. 


For example, a consultant who approaches the astrologer 
may ask when his marriage will take place or about house 
construction, or when he will start a profession, or when he will 
get a job, or change in job or about relief from debts, or cure of a 
disease, or about his mother fighting her lost batlle, or whether 
he ig destined for a child birth and a male child if sc, when, or 


256 


about reunion with his wite, of he ts destined for 2 marriages, or 
about cordial relation between brothers or partition will take 
place, or he will have political connections and if so whether it 
will be good or unfavourable. Likewise, the public have several 
problems in their mind from tine to time and are eager to know 
their luck factor. Under such a circumstance, horary is the only 
method tc offer a result. On the natai charl, one may be passing 
through Venus dasa or Jupiter dasa which are 20 and 16 years 
respectively. With the natal chart, from the position of Venus 
and whether this Venus is to offer a favourable or unfavourable 
result can be predicted to a limited level in a general manner. 
But it is sot possible to pinpoint an event in a systematic manner 
from the natal chart to tell that an event will take place on such a 
day and time, taking into account the day to day affairs or about 
the aflairs of temporary nature. Because we are not sure of the 
oink time as mentioned in the Natal chart of the consultant. 
Further all the calculations made tor the chart has to be error 
free. Here the consultant will have no patience to wait till the 
astrologer completes his verification of that Birth chart. 
Therefore cone cannot rely much on a birth chart as it may be 
defective i several aspects. In case the birlh chart is erected 
correctly even then for a specific question, a specific result 
cannot be foretold. It the consultant wishes to know about 
marriage, the astrologer with the help of Jupiter transit, current 
dasa-bukthi, the position of lord of 7th will be able to tell that 
marriage will take place during a certain year and a certain 
month. But it will be a rare thing to tell from a birth chart that 
marriage will take place during this year and during this month. 
But through Horary we can pinpoint the timing of an event, and 
decisively tell that marriage will take place on a particular day 
and date Several events that had come true, a few of them are 
explained in the coming pages. 


257 


A birth chart of a Native, from his birth, the Native 
Undergoes several changes at the mental level from ages 
10-20-30-40-50-60. By these mental level changes, the thoughts 
of the Native also change, aimed at a particular target or 
direction. Next these thoughts of the Native gathers momentum 
for action. At this juncture, every question of the Native will be in 
tune with the target. Therefore Horary, through the planetary 
positions of that moment will reveal the mind, the intention of the 
question, and finally also helps to get the answer/result. It Venus 
dasa staris at the age of 10 for a Native, it ends at the age of 30. 
The Native who puts a question for Horary is 25 years old. Till 
this age the Native had undergone several changes :n his 
thinking at the mental level and also habits, customs and so 
on, and is still undergoing the changes. Here, Venus the dasa 
lord according to its strength or otherwise will inform the nature 
of results and also operate the results in a routine way. But 
Horary will inform and operate the results of the question asked 
at that particular time by a person of his mental level linked rg 
the planetary set up of the zodiac, thereby giving the results 
very clearly, with a solution to the very problem. Based on ihs 
Transit astrology- popularly known as Gochara was introduced. 
But this Gochara was not properly analysed and developed. The 
Gochara is predicted from Moon rasi, taking into account the 
transit of Jupiter and Saturn and centred on these two planets, 
every reading is made. Needless to say, no purpose will be 
served by this. Gochara rules are to be applied trom lagna, and 
never from Moon sign as they will not come correct, and hence 
useless. Some results as a matter of fluke might have proved 
correct. Moon transits in a sign on an average in 2? 14 days. 
Moon as a planet is one amongst the Navagrahas. On the 
timing of events, an event to take place. Moon transiting the 
sensitive point of the zodiac is a must. Thus Moon is sugyecter’ 


256 


co fhe KP principle, the ¢ smould loweh tree iruothul sagnedhicatars 
level in the zodiac which we call as sensitive paint toon rerates 
round the earth, Far all matters related io earth. Moons taker 
as a basis, But Jagna ts nat $0, Cagnd4 transits efiwh as roughly 
in 2 hours. To heginestart commence ary wotk on cadh, itis this 
Lauia that shows the drech a AC vhich point the lacna stants 
that paint from that arechon. tos ip fist house. followed by 
end, ard, 4th, Sth, Gth fin, BY onl tigh. Tih, and 12th house 
'S farmed, and wl ihese huuess ae oeigiwered ie aperale and 
offer thei resvts on tie sthermgh oc othenar + of the very lagna 
With lagna as the toundation and the starting prsant, the planets 
get ihe power to otter ihe cesuls. When flies a6 [he teal situation, 
(rans results when otferd fran Moen srqn that is Chundra 


Grad, cine bat comfissvan wie! pre. as 


Grores oof manages have been adebrated. wih om 
rulevance al all te ine tsuturafam Tf an intedigent astrdage 
ANUYSES cumain Marriage everis whiern had ne@thing to do wth 
Curubalem he will find thal Jupiter, irom that vith lagna would 
have been transiting 'n the sta!:s at taras or howses 5-2-7 17-3 


only and never contrary to . That is Jupiter may even be 
moving in houses 6 or 8 or 12 or in any one of the 12 ncuses. 
but certainly deposited only in the stars of lords ot houses 
5-2-7-11-3 Any one can test and verify this truth 


Thus several defects/shortfalls. in the Transit results were 
recorded in the past, These results were not tested scientifically. 
Even the present generation give its attention to verify or cross 
check all these results are repeatedly said without any rhyme or 
reason. The Saturn/Jupiter transits, right or wrong. the general 
public is simply taken for a tide tn the traditional method. It an 


intelligent astrologer raises "is voice against this Saturn Jupiter 
i 


255 


transit, he will be considered as if he is opposing something 
considered as very sacred. Bul any intelligent astrologer wit 
support the KP theory, that transit results should be read only 
from birth lagna. Therefore for a time to time result. the planets 
as they are transiting, it is possible to tell very accurate resu-ts 
for those who desire to know by their questions of a problen 
they have. The subject Horary is further explained. as we all 
know that it helps us to gel the results as a single spectrum 
against the broad spectrum of a birth chart. 


The horary methods are many. Sages and geniuses ot the 
rash have defined this horary in several ways, What ever may 
wiz the type of Hotary only two are in Axistence in our actual day 
to day practice, which are useful te us, 


1. First Method- Every star, each having the totel of 820 
mingtes,  dywvided into 9 uneyuul divisions according te 
Vimshothari dasa. The first division 1s allotted tc the iord of the 
star itself followed by othe: & planets, and numbers from 1 to 9 
are allotted respectively. For 2/ stars the total number allotted 
will be 249 {as Sun and Jupiter in thier subs Rahu and Moon 
have one jumber more at 3 places. repeated twice), A person 
who consults a KP astrologer has to tell a number between 1 to 
249. The said number by the consultant forms a fagna-star and 
one ot the 9 divusons of that star- which subdivision is called 
Sublord- is made use of as a technique in Horary prediction. 
This is the Best Horary method of prediction By this methad. 
any event to take place, can be said accurately to the very day 
and date. This method was found by Sotnida Mannan, Jyothish 
Marthand (Late} Professor. K.S.Krishnamunti, the genius and a 
giant of the recent past. 


760 


The division of a star of 800 minutes was known to our 
ancients, but subjecting the division fo fit wythin the 24% 
numbers, and through which the Horary technique was 
perfected by Sri KS# By this method, any matter event can be 
predicted very accurately. This Horary method, a wonder of 
wonders was found by none!se than our Guruyi(Late) Prot. S 1. 
the genius and a giant of the just recent past 


2, Second Method - In thes method each starts dividad wt 
4 parts, thereby a house- sign Wii have 9 parts and Inr ? 
houses, it will make upto 108 parts. By this method of For iy 
we can tell the resuits very clearly io the peareast souptesiin 
hut the day and date cannot be teld accurately The: arttur [ 
work thi this method is very sunple. For thos4é who an nr | 
mucn experience in astrology can mnvke use of tres reeth vit: 
predictions to the approximate level 


What we should kruw- 
in the first method the irue results are revealed ie the tty; 
surprise of every one regarding precision For seen a revelation 
knowledge of astrology through practical expenence is very 
essential, Next we should know to work out anthmetical part 
without a mistake, 


At the exact commencing time of the Horary. one should fix 
the planets transit in the respective star by degree-minutes and 
seconds and arrive at the planet sublords. For the said number, 
one should be able to work out all the 12 cusps from the Tables 
of houses, and arrive at the correct sublords for all the 12 
houses. Sublords of all the planets must also be worked out as 
said above. Then the prediction should be made. When one 
knows how to handle a question through horary, then only as 


261 


sand abive he can set to work for the result. Then we should 
now fw to work out a norary upto the correct prediction level- 
yp ]&xplaned as below- 


® conslilani approaches the astiologer and puts the query, 
Gir when ry martkage will take place? The consultant gives the 
rutin ety art alsa te the astrologer. Next what is to be done? 


1. Itihe consuitant has his horoscope, take it, and werk out 
the ‘asabukth. Then arrange in an order, his day of birth- His 
Moon Rast Moon Star - His lagna Rasi- His lagna star and so 
on 


. Next gel a number between 1 to 249 for the question of 
‘he o. sunnt Then work out the 12 cusps for the given number 
dcucidny to the latitude and longitude. The astrologer as he ts 
In 4 Station permanently he can have the 12 houses worked out 
it) advance for all the 2429 nurmibers and have them ready for a 
given moment. 


3. Next, when he starls working the Horary charl at a 
particular tme- for that time the planetary positions of all the 9 
planets should be fixed and recorded in 
degree-minutes-seconds wih the help of KP ephemesis or 
through Drik-Kanitha-Panchangas. 


4. Next * The consultant has put the question about his 
marriage. Therefore from the number horary charl- 7th house 
sublord should be carefully studied. 


5. Next - We should find out whether this 7th sublord is 
deposited in the stars ot lords of houses 2-7-3-11-5. Next, find 


262 


out- that this sublord deposited in a star - is, in which of the 9 
divisions of that star- that is subdivision- that is sublord- and this 
sublord whether he is the owner and or in any manner 
connected to any of the marriage houses 2-7-3-11-5. 


Now again- the 7th sublord is deposited in a star- this 
stariord, if he is connected to houses 6-8-12 which negates 
marriage- but that stariord, if he is deposited in one of the 9 
divisions- that is subdivision- that is sub- that is that sublord if he 
is connected te houses 2-7-3-11-5, marriage is promised. 


The above said- 7th sublord will be deposited in a star and 
sub. This stariord and sublord both of them rf they are 
connected te houses 6-12-16 only, then the Native cannct have 
a married life at all. This can be confirmed and said very 
decisively without a single doubt. Therefore, to predict and tell 
marriage or no marriage, the level of the 7th sublord should be 
studied and judged thoroughly. 


6. Next we must note down- every planet- in which star it is 
deposited and in that star of the 9 divisions- in which division 
that is subdivision, each planet is deposited. 


f. For the Horary charl, the time at which we started working 
from that time- dasa-bukthi-anthara has to be worked out. 


8. Then sort out the planets which are connected to 
2-7-3-11-5, the houses of marriage. They are Known as 
aignificators. 


9. After sorting out the planets connected to house 
2-7-3-11-5, we must eliminate such planets which are deposited 


20635 


in a star and in that star, one of the 9 divisions- that ts 
subdivision- that is sub- that is sublord- which sublord relates to 
6-10-12. 


Likewise, note down all other planets. It is here and from 
how on, we must apply our intelligence. That is, we have 
decided to eliminate the planets which are in the sub, whose 
lords are connected to 6-10-12. These sublords may be the 
owners of the houses 2-7-11-5, but deposited in the stars of 
lords of houses 6-1G-12. Even then, some time a situation willl 
arise, We may have to make use of them. Because lord of ? will 
also be lord of 12. Lord of 11 may be lord of 10. If the houses 
that we need are available, and the other houses found 
negating, we need not eliminate them. This can be understood 
only by practical experience. For Vrischika Jagna, Mars is lord of 
1 and 6. Theretcre we should eliminate planets in the star of 
Mars or Sub or Mars. And for the same Vrischika lagna, Venus 
is lord of 7 and 12. Here we must neglect the 12th house and 
make use of the 7th house. 


10. Ifthe 7th sublord signifies 7-3-11 or well connected, 
marriage will take place in a few months, that is within a year. 
For the timing of event, Sun transit and Moon transit over the 
sensitive point of the zodiac must be worked out systematically. 


11. If the 7th sublord not connected to 3-11, but to 2-7-9 or 
2-7-10, or 2-7-12 or 2-11-12 or 2-10-42 or 2-7-4, marriage will 
take place after one year or alter cerlain years. For the timing of 
event, Jupiter transit, Sun transit and Moon transit over the 
sensitive point of the zodiac must be worked out systematically. 
What we mean by Jupiter transit is, when a marriage time is 


264 


fixed for more than a year, Jupiter should transit in the stars of 
lords of houses 2-7-11-3. In the same way, Sun transit also 
should coincide and then Moon transit also should tally. At the 
same time, the dasa\bukthitanthara period of the horary chart 
should tally with Jupiter-Sun-Moon transits. If the marriage is to 
take place in a few months but within a year, then in that case, 
Jupiter transit need not be worked out. It is enough if the Sun 
and Moon transit tally with that of dasa/bukthi/anthara. All these 
levels when centres on a particular day, on that day and date 
marriage will take place. 


Method of Prediction 


A Horary chart which was analysed for a marriage event Is 
qiven below- as an example chart. 


The Horary chart was erected and the result that is the day 
and the date of marriage was declared 3 months and 1 (one) 
day in advance- Details- 


Girl belonging to Christian community. 
Address- P.J.Payola Daisi Rani, B.Com., 
Masthiammal Layout, 
House No. 316, 
Sivananda colony, 
Coimbatore 641 612. 


Number given by the girl- to know the time of marriage is 
110. Horary chart tor number 110 ts as below. 


265 


46.35 


WHI 7.35 
, Ke 7014 


Mo, 110 
Date 16.10.1993 
Time 3.27 PM, Wednesday 


Sat6.40 Sun dasa bal 1-7-29 AW6 25 
Moon 6.48 MER bukthi bal 0-3-23 Jup 1311 
V 6.10 Aa antharta bat 0-00-24 Ven 1337 


MER 7 42 
tt 7.35 
Mars 6.07 


Ra 20.14 
Iv 6.55 


Ruling planets at the time of analysis- 


daylord- Mercury 
Moon rasi lord- Saturn 
Moon star lord- LHhirashada 
lagna at 3.27 pm- Kumbha 


Therefore the Ruling Planets at the time of analysis are- 
Mercury-Saturn-Sun. 

7th sublord is - Mercury. 

How Mercury is arrived as 7th cusp sublord. 


1. 7th house is Meena- lord of Meena- Jupiter 
2. 7th cusp falls in 7°00" 
.@.U Dadhra star-stariord Saturn. 


3. Of the 9 divisions of U.badhra star- 7th cusp 

falls in the subdrvsion- that is sub. 

Therefore, suBlord is Mercury. 
This subdivision lord that is sub lord is Mercury. Therefore, 7th 
bhava sublord is Mercury. 


This suBlord Mercury will reveal everything about the 
matter- marriage. That is for the consultant who put the question 


260 


regarding marriage, this sublord Mercury tells whether marriage 
iS promised or not very clearly. Once the sublord Mercury 
declares that Marriage is promised, accordingly the 
dasa oukthi/anthara lords will complete the marriage event. 


lf the sublord Mercury had declared NO marriage, then 
eventhough the dasa-bukthi-anthara is on and also as 
favourable Significators for marriage, they will not conduct the 
marriage because the sublord of the 7th has not given the green 
signal to conduct the marriage. 


Now we will study, how the sublord declares Yes for 
marriages or says No for marriage is explained as below: 


The 7th cusp sublord Mercury at the commencing of the 
horary chart signifies and connected to houses 2-3-7-5-11, 
therefore it declares that marriage is promised. 


The same /th cusp sublord Mercury at the commencing of 
the Horary charl, without any connection to houses 2-3-7-5-11, 
but connected only to houses 6-19-42 which are the houses of 
negation to marriage, then the sublord Mercury declares NO 
marriage, during his/her life time. This declaration is a clear one- 
a contirmed one- and the one which cannet be altered. That is, 
in a Horary chart, when matters related to marriage is analysed, 
the 7th cusp sublord who ever it may be, that sublord if it is 
connected only to the negating houses 6-19-12 and has no 
connection at all to houses 2-3-5-7-8-11, then for that Native, 
there is no marriage till the end of his life. If the 7th sublord 
signifies houses 6-10-12 and also houses 2-3-5-7-8-11, at the 
same time, then the marriage will be a delayed cne or a type ct 
marriage causing anxieties to avalanches or marriages that are 


267 


solemnised against a traditional culture or conventions and so 
on. 


lf the 7th cusp sublord is not at all connected to houses 
6-40-12 in any manner, but connected to any of the other 
houses, then the marriage will take place in a grand manner and 
the married life will be a happy one. 


Therefore, from this horary chart, please find as explained 
below- how the 7th cusp sublord Mercury determines whether 
marriage is promised or not. 7th cusp sub lord Mercury is at 
7°42’ in Thula- that is in Rahu star- Swathi and of the 9 divisions 
of that Swathi star, Mercury is in the first division itself which 
belongs to Rahu itself- therefore in Rahu sub- that is from 6°40" 
to 8°40', this area belongs ot Rahu subdivision. The second 
division belongs to Jupiter, the third division belongs to Saturn, 
the fourth division belongs to Mercury and so on. Likewise the 9 
divisions in this Swathi star are made up according to 
Vimshothari dasa system and hence unequal. The divisions that 
we read are in degree-minutes. Such a 9 division is not only for 
the Swathy star. Ail the 2? stars will have such a 9 division. 
Here, the sublord Mercury is deposited in Rahu Star-Swathy 
and of the 9 divisions of the Swathy star- Mercury is deposited 
in the first division which belongs to Rahu itsell- and is 
connected to houses 4 and 7. How this sublord Mercury is 
connected to 4 and 7? Rahu is stationed in the 4th. Rahu has 
made this 4th house as his own house in the place of Jupiter. 
The 7th house also belongs to Jupiter. Therefore, Meena the 7th 
house, also beiangs to Rahu [nm otherwords. Rahu is a full 
Hedged owner of the 7th house. Mercury the 7th sublord is 
deposited in the Rahu sub. Thus Mercury is connected to 


ois 


houses 4 and /. That is Mercury is the significator of houses 4 
and 7. Further, Mercury is under 120° aspect with Mars, who is 
the lord of the 3rd house. Here eventhough Mercury is lord of 1 
and 10, as he is a significator of marriage houses 7 and 3, 
Mercury the /7th cusp sublord declares that marriage is 
promised. 


When marriage is promised, we must now lock to dasa 
bukthi. Houses that contribute te the conduct of marriage are 
2-3-7-11. 


1.2nd house speaks about the formation of a family. 


2. 3rd house tell about the negotiations between the 
parents. 


3. 7th house speaks about the legal bondage cf the 
husband and wife. 


4. 11th house tells about the permanent friendship of the 
husband and wife and also the happy marriage that will take 
place. 


Thus houses 2-3-7-11 are predominantly the houses of 
marriage. Before we analyse the dasa/bukthi, we must find out 
which are all the planets connected to the marriage houses 
2-3-7-11. Planets connected to 2-3-7-11 may be many, but we 
have to select out of them which only can contribute to the 
conduct of marriage. That is planets are sorted out as 
significators and fruitful Significators are then arrived at. Which 
are ail the planets that are significators to house 2-3-7-11, 3m this 
horary chart is listed as below- 


269 


Second house is Thula in 7735". Mercury is stationed in this 
second house at 7°42’. Therefore Mercury connected to the 2nd 
house. Lord of the 2nd house is Venus. Rahu is deposited in the 
star Poorvashada whose lord is Venus. Thus Rahu and Venus 
are signifying the second house. Therefore, Mercury 
Rahu-Venus the three of them are the significators of the 2nd 
house. 


That is, how do we say that a planet (or planets) is 
connected or a planet is a Significator of a house or houses? 


The lord of a house (owner of a house), planets deposited in 
ihe stars of the owner of the house, planets stationed in a 
house- that is occupying a house- the occupant, planets 
deposited tn the stars cf the occupant- all such planets are 
connected to a house or called as significators to that house. Let 
me make it a little more clear- We will take up the 2nd house for 
example- 


1. Occupant of the 2nd house- Mercury. 
2. If any planet is deposited in the stars of 
Mercury, then that planet. 

In this horary chart, no planet is deposited in 
the stars of Mercury- i.e. Aslesha~Jyeshta-Revathy. 
If there is a planet- that planet becomes a 
significator. 
3. The owner of the second house- Venus. 
4. Venus, the owner of the 2nd house and 

In its star Poorvashada Rahu is depesited- Rahu. 


270 


Likewise to sort out the planets for all the 12 houses which 
speak of the planet- house relations are known a8 connections 
or called as Significators. 


5. Next we take up the same second house wherein a 
planet is stationed, that is the occupant and from that occupant. 
another planet or planets stationed at 120° distance, and 
amongst them which planet can serve the purpose, will be 
required for us. That is the planet at 120° distance will give tts 
house result and help the said occupant- in this chart it is 
Mercury in the 2nd house. Similarly, other planets connected by 
120° aspect or connected in any other manner, the said other 
planets will come to the help of the planet to which they are 
connected. Whether the result will be favourable or 
unfavourable depends on the planet or planets at 120° distance. 
Except Rahu and Kethu all other planets at 120° distance and 
only at 120° distance can help each other. 


6. Next, the aspected planets also are able to help similar to 
what has been explained in the above para. As of the aspects, 
the aspect by Saturn, Jupiter, Mars over the other planets, the 
aspected planets play their role under the dictates of the 
aspecting planets. Planets Mercury, Venus, below the sun 
known as Inner Planets by their aspect over Jupiter, Mars, 
Saturn cannot make use of them, they being the Outer planets 
As a matter of fact, Venus, Mercury, Moon when aspected by 
Jupiter, Saturn, Mars immediately comes under their full control. 
Naturally, Jupiter-Saturn-Mars by their aspect, make full use ot 
Venus, Mercury, Moon according to their dictates. That Is 
Venus, Mercury, Moon when aspected by Jupiter-Mars-Saturn 
according to the good or evil aspect, Venus-Mercury-Moon are 
controlled and they have no power to — dictate 


afl 


Jupiter-Mars-Saturn and make use of them. To the contrary, the 
Outer Planets will make use of the Inner planets. When we are 
analysing the planets from Planetary aspects point of view, we 
have to keep in mind, who is who and ‘then select the 
Significators. 


But when it is Rahu/Kethu, even/‘thing said above is not at 
all applicable. In a signénouse whatever may be the distance of 
the planet from Rahu/Kethu by degree-minutes, such planets fall 
under the full control of Rahu/Kethu. Similarly, is the case of 
planets aspecting Rahu or Kethu. Rahu and Kethu when 
conjoined with a planet or planets .or aspected by planets, it is 
Rahu or Kethu that will offer the’ result of the conjoined or 
aspected planets. Rahu/Kethu are most powerful, as and when 
they act as agent of the aspected planets or conjoined planets. 
Much about Rahu/Kethu is yet to be told which needs to be 
explained separately. 


Next we must sort out the significators of the 7th house. In 
this Horary charl, no planets are found occupying the 7th house. 
Lord (owner) of the 7th house is Jupiter. In the other house 
owned by Jupiter, which is Onanus is occupied by Rahu. As 
Rahu is now agent for Jupiter, Rahu becomes the significator of 
the 7th house. Mercury Is in the star Swathy whose lord is Rahu. 
Therefore Mercury also becomes the significator of the 7th 
house. Next we find Kethu is in the star Punarvasu whose lord is 
Jupiter. Hence, Kethu also becomes the significator of the /th 
house. Therefore, Jupiter-Rahu-Mercury-Kethu- these four 
planets are the Significators of the 7th house. 


Next who are all the significators of the 3rd house? No 
planets are found occupying the 3rd house. The 3rd house 


2f2 


belongs to Mars. Sun 1s deposited in the star Chaithra whose 
lord is Mars. Therefore Sun and Mars are Signdicatofs of the 3rd 
house. 


Next, let us find out the significators of the 11th house- no 
planets are occupying the 11th house. 11th house belongs to 
Moon. That is Moon is the owner of the 11th house. No planets 
are found in the stars Rohini, Hastha or Sravana. Therefore, 
Moon Is the signiticator of the 11th house. Moon is very close to 
saturn. Saturn will make use ‘of this Moon for its matters. But 
Moon cannot make use of Saturn for its matters. 


Finally, in this horary chart who are all the significators for 
the houses 2-3-7-11 is listed below. 


2nd house- Mercury, Venus, Aahu. 

3rd house- Sun and Mars. 

?th house- Hahu, Jupiter, Kethu, Mercury. 
11th house- Moon. 


Therefore, Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Rahu- 
Kethu- these 8 planets are the total number of Significators of 
the houses 2-3-7-10-11. These 8 planets that are called 
significators are directly or indirectly connected to houses 
2-3-7-11. 


The chart was analysed on 16.10.1991, Wednesday 
3.27 pm tST- Dasa-bukthi 


Sun dasa balance- 1-7-29 
Mercury bukthi balance 0-3-23 
Rahu anthara balance 0-0-24 


afd 


Planet lords who are running the dasa-bukthi-anthara have 
come as signiticators of houses 2-3-7. No significater is found 
for the 11th house. That is, Moon does not find a place. In 
Mercury bukthi, Moon anthara is already over. On the date of 
analysis of the chart, Rahu anthara balance Is 0-0-24 days only. 
As ith house significator except Moon, no other planets are 
seen. lt is here, our utmost careful attention is very necessary. 
saturn and Mcon are in rapt conjunction at a close distance of 
3O0'(minutes) in Makara. Saturn already is the lord of houses 5 
and 6. Though Saturn owns the 6th house, Saturn is deposited 
In the 5th house, which ts his own house, and also in rapt 
conjunction with Moon. We all Know that the Sth house is the 
11th house for the 7th house. Therefore, for marriage matters 
5th house is the favourable house. We have already explained 
that if a planet having signification to negating house and at the 
same time, signifying the most favourable house also, that we 
require, then we must make use of it. Here, Saturn though lord 
(owner) of 6th, as also the owner of Sth house, Saturn gets 
mixed up with the favourable houses of marriage and hence 
Saturn should be made use of as a Significator. Further, we now 
know, that above Sun, Saturn as an Quter Planet will bring 
under its control the other planets of the solar family due to 
aspect, conjunction and so on and make full use of them to 
operate during its pericd- i. Saturn period. As already 
explained, here Saturn will compel Moon to its dictates. Hence, 
Mercury bukthi, Saturn anthara is arrived at as favourable time 
to conduct the marriage. 


If that is so, Saturn anthara will run for about 48 days. we 
have already seen that bukthi lord Mercury is connected to 
Mars, lord of 3rd and Mars anthara as it is over, the scene was 
set for the negotiations to reach a successful end. But that was 


274 


not so. Because at the very time of analysis of the Horary chart. 
Mars anthara was over. If the negotiations would have reached 
a successful end. the consultant would not have approached us 
enquiring about the marriage. Then, for what reason the 
negotiations itself are not in the picture? Saturn not only !s in 
rapt conjunction with Moon, but also aspects both Mercury and 
Mars by its 10th aspect. As already explained, Saturn the Cuter 
Planet By its aspect will bring other planets under tts control and 
dictates during its period, on the timing of events, only when the 
saturn anthara commences, the negctiations and the marriage 
Will take place. This finding was confirmed. Saturn runs its 
anthara for 48 days. Marriage cannot take place on everyday of 
the 48 days Marriage will take place only on a particular day 
and date within this 48 days. Persons that ts consuttant. who 
approached me te enquire about marriage belongs te Christian 
community, whe will not wait for auspicious months like Hindus, 
as they do not attach any importance. When negotiations are 
over. they will select any day and date convenient to them to 
celebrate the marriage Therefore. during this interval of 48 
days, that is at the time of analysis ot the chart. Ranu anthara to 
end in 24 days followed by Jupiter anthara of 41 davs, and 
again the 48 days Saturn anthara period to follow. has to be 
studied. 


Yery Important Point 


The dasa/bukthi/anthara brings a matter to happen very 
close to the timing of event. and their [cb 1S over for the purpose 
they existed. Having approached very close to the timing of 
event. to fulfill and finalise the event they have to adopt a 
different type Cf strategy. Or they will hand over the matter event 
for completion to the strategic operators. Who are they?- 1s 


g?fn 


explained as below- They are the Sun transit. Moon transit and 
lagna transit. Any matler and event to be completed will have to 
be operated by these trios, that is Sun, Moon, lagna transits. 
That is, if a matter-event has to take place affer 30 days and 
within a year, first Sun transit is to be studied. Then Moon transit 
should fully cooperate with that of Sun transit and finally the 
lagna transit should be on the sensitive point of the zodiac. 


lf the matter event has to tae place within 27 days, we 
need not look to Sun transit, but only to Moon transit and Lagna 
transit on the sensitive point ot the zodiac. Every matter event to 
be completed, at the final stage, wil have to be operated only by 
Lagna transit. The Lagna transit will be roughly for 2 hours in a 
sign. The matter event will have to take place only during this 2 
hours. Even within this 2 hours, it is absolutely possible to tell 
the exact time, to the hour and minute of the event taking place 
without fail. The how of it is also explained very clearly. 


In this Horary chart, as ot Saturn, tne Saturn anthara is to 
run for a total of 48 days. The tnalter is marriage, to he 
celebrated as an event, is within 48 days. Bul this 48 days '5 
more than 30 days cf a month. Therefore exactly wnen Saturn 
anthara begins, trom that date we have to find out the Sun 
transit. How to study the Sun transit? The day when this Horary 
charat No.110 was analysed What was that day?- what was the 
Hasi?- What was the Star? based on these and based on the 
marriage houses 2-3-5-7-11, we have to observe the Sun 
transit. Saturn anthara begins on ¢1.12.1981- and ends on 
9-2-92. We already know Saturn ¢s in rapt conjunction with 
Moon, the lord of 11th. Saturn’ as an Outer planet controls and 
dictates the planet it aspects or conjoins with- this is one reason, 
Saturn is able to offer the results ot the 1 1thhouse. The second 


2/76 


reason is 5th house is the 7#1th house counted from the 7th 
house for which reason Saturn anthara was selected. Saturn 
anthara commences from 21-12-1991. On that date where Sur, 
Is, and during this 48 days, we have to find out when the Sun 
will favourably transit. On 21-12-1991, Sun is moving in Dhanur 
rasi. Jupiter lord of Dhanus, was not found as the day lord or 
rasi lord or Star lord when this Horary chart was analysed on 
16.10.1991. On that day, day-rasi-star lords are Mercury-Saturn 
and Sun respectively. Therefore, the day when the chart was 
analysed, sign and star lords are Saturn and Sun- in that. 
Saturn-Sun- Sun enters on 15-1-92. This date is considered to 
be Useful and favourable. Ifso. will marriage take place cn that 
day and date itselt? No, Marriage will not take place. After and 
alongwith Sun transit. we have te carefully observe the Moon 
transit also. Gn 15-1-92. when Sun transit is favourable, we 
have to study where Moon ts transiting. On 15-1-92, Moon is in 
Mesha. transiting In the star Bharani. Mars, lord of Mesha is also 
the Icord-owner of the 3rd house responsible to finalise the 
negatiation for marriage of the Boy or girl. He has no power to 
conduct the marriage. For a marriage to take place, the most 
sensitive houses are 2-7-11. As such, Venus is lord of the 
second house. Moon ts lord of the 11fh house. Therefore to this 
level, Moon has to transit. Therefore in Venus house (Rishaba}, 
Moon star {Rohini} and one of the several planets connected to 
the 7th house- that planet as sub- Moon when ft transits on the 
day to this level, that day, the marriage will take place. On 
17-1-1992, Moon will be transiting in Rishaba rasi, Rohini star 
and Venus sub. This is the reading at 5,30 am tn the morning. 
Therefore, the Mcon transit also is found to be favourable. 
Hence, it Was confirmed that marriage will take place on that 
date. Next, lagna transit also has to,fe favourable during which 
time Mangalvadharana is made. On 17 1-92 morning 5.30 arn. 


ef? 


lagna is moving in Dhanus. 11th house is fulfillment ot desires. 
Fulfillment of the marriage ceremony is given by 11th house. 
Therefore Moon lord of 11th, and to that 11th house Moon, 
saturn being connected, and still further Saturn being lord of 5th 
and 1 ith to 7th, with such realities, lagna while moving in 
Makara rasi in Moon star Sravana, Marriage Muhurtha will take 
place. Accordingly the day, date and time was contirmed as 
17-1-92, Friday, morning roughly between 7 to 7.30 am. | wrote 
the same details in a separate form paper without mentioning 
the time. but mentioning that marriage will take place on Friday 
17.1.92 and gave it to the partly 3 months in advance. As 
informed by me the marriage took place on Friday 1/7.1.92 
morning at 7.00 am. 


The birth chart of the girl- the girl who had her marriage, as 
mentioned above, is also presented. From a birth chart certain 
broad and approximate details alone can be predicted, but a 
pinpointed prediction can be made only in the horary chart. 
Sometimes, itis difficult to make a prediction from the birth chart 
for a precise question. 


Birth chart of the Giri P.J. Paycla Daisi Rant who got 
married on 17-1-92 as per details of Horary No. 110, 


Ordinary Aasi chart. 


Rasi Chart 
P.J.Payoia Daisy Rani 
Birth 24-3-1964 Tuesday 


Time 11,50 PM (Night) 
Poliachi 
Kethu dasa hal 6-8-15 


The above Rasi chart given to me was recast by me as per 
KP. 


MER 22.13 | Jup 2,22 


V 316.05 , V1I111.52 
Sun 10.53 V116.00 VII 43.02 


Mars 3.05 | Ven 25.52 Ra 13.40 


Mv 13,57 Nirayana Bhava Chart 
Sat 6.09 P.J.Payola Daisy Rani 
| Birth 24-3-1964 Tuesday 


Time 11.50 PM {Night} M 1 
II 14.55 Pollachi oon 0.2 


Kethu casa bal 6-39-14 X13.51 


Ke 13.40 
113.02 Zs 
14.52 Xll 16.00 Ww) 16.05 


In the ordinary sense, when we speak of planets in the rasi 
chart as shown above, we say 3 planets (Mars-Sun-Mercury} 
are in the Sth house and 2 planets (Jupiter and Venus) are in 
the 6th house. Accordingly, when a prediction is made, the 3 
planets are related to the 5th house and the 2 planets are 
related to the 6th house. This view is present in our daily 
routine. 


27g 


But the sare planetary position in a bhava chakra, one will 
find Mercury and Jupiter related to the 5th house, while Sun and 
Mars are separated and related to the 4th house. The reason is 
5 cusp (Bhava sputa) falls at 16°-05’. Planets lesser than the 5th 
cusp sputa, though stationed in the Sth house they are 
empowered to offer only the 4th house (Bhava} results. Mercury 
alone having more sputa than the 5th cusp (Bhava) can offer the 
results of the Sth house (Bhava). Similarly, Jupiter stationed in 
the 6th sign, having less sputa than the 6th cusp(bhava) can 
offer only the 5th house (bhava} results. Likewise Venus in the 
6th sign having greater sputa than the 6th bhava, Venus alone 
can offer the 6th house (Bhava} results. 


Therefore, from a rasi chakra with planets filled up in the 12 
houses (signs) and prediction made therefrom will be of no use 
at all. Hence, prediction made through rasi charl will not be 
correct. 


Next in this Birth chart, 7th cusp falls in 13°-02' in Rishaba. 
Lord of the 7th bhava is Venus 13°-02' means Rohini star and 
out of the 9 divisions of the Rohini star, 13°-02' will fall in the 
Rahu division, that is Rahu sub. Rahu is stationed in the 8th and 
deposited in his own star Arudhra. Mars lord of 6, is aspecting 
Rahu by its 4th aspect. Venus lord of 7th, is stationed in the 6th 
and deposited in his own star Bharani. Generally, lord of 7th in 
the 6th house is spoken of as weak point, a minus point from 
marriage point of view. The birlh chart was given to me on 
16.10.1991. As on that date, age of the gid was roughly 28. 
Venus dasa is over, Sun dasa is on. Sun Is in Meena deposited 
in U.badhra star, signifying houses 3-4-10. Sun is in no way 


260 


connected to the 7th house- the house of marriage. Furlher Sun 
is connected with Mars lord of 6th. Mercury lordof 8 and 11 Is 
debilitated as per the traditional method. From the analysis 
made so far for marriage, Sun dasa and the bukthi operating 
alongwith other planetary forces are not sufficient for the Sun 
dasa to offer the marriage. But the marriage took place on 
17.1.92. Therefore, from birth chart, we find it is difficult to make 
a Clear prediction. Further, Venus lord of 7, though stationed in 
6th, it is deposited in Its own star Bharani and had the Venus 
dasa also upto the age of 27. Several Gurubalams have gone 
by and the marriage event did not take place. Venus lord of 7th 
and also a Chief significator for marriage could not make the 
marriage event. Sun lord of 10th in the star of Saturn and 
connected with Mars lord of 6th, running his own dasa- that Is 
Sun dasa- it will not at all be proper to predict marriage. But 
during this Sun's dasa- Rahu bukthi marriage was celebrated, 
That is marriage has been celebrated during a dasa-bukthi 
which is unfit to conduct a marriage. Venus as lord of 7th and 
the most favourable Venus dasa, was on upte the age of 27, 
even then marriage was not celebrated. Any leading astrologer 
will first look to the dasa/bukthi operating at the time of 
verification and to make further prediction. Therefore, when a 
contradictory observation come across, what are we to 
understand irom such a confusing situation’? That is, the birlh 
time given is totally wrong. The delivery time would have been 
difficult and paintul due to which a wrong birth time might have 
been noted. A child separated from the mother, placed on earth, 
the oxygen flow makes the hearl-beat, to give the first cry of the 
child. From that very moment, the dasa-bukthi starts. In 
recording the birth time some views differ. For several reasons 
one is not able to predict correctly but say something 
approximately. If the birth time given is correct and the birth 


281 


chart also prepared correctly, then the prediction part will also 
be more correct. 


But in Horary astrology, we do not come across any 
confusion as explained above. The horary chart is made at a 
time convenient to the astrologer. That time is noted without a 
mistake. We never say that a birth chart is useless. Our view of 
a birth chart is, we cannot make any accurate prediction over a 
specific question. One reason is many of the birth charts are not 
erected property. That is the astrologer himself has to prepare a 
chart with the available datas. Next comes the incorrect birth 
time given. Under such circumstances, the chances are very 
high for the sublord not arrived properly. Between 3 to 7 minutes 
the sublord goes on changing. For this reason prediction from a 
horary chart is the best. For a general, broad and approximate 
observation, birth chart will be equally good, provided the chart 
Is correct. 

Through Horary charts, | have predicted several marriages, 
giving the day and date of marrage which came true. A few of 
the charts are explained- 


K.P. Chandrika Rao 
D/o K.P. Vasantha Rao 
Age 28 

Cross cut Road, 
Coimbatore North. 


KP horary number 5 was given by the girl to know the time 
of her marnge, Details as below. 


282 


5.34 ill 2.37 
Mars 11,32 Iv $8.52 


Mason 17.06 
Ke 7.18 

All 29.44 No. 5 Jup 19.58 
Date 28.11.1990 V27.17 


Tima 2.00 PM 
M1 27.17 
MER dasa bal 16-5-11 VI 279.44 


X% 28.52 Ven 18.52 


Sat 278.37 
ix 2.37 Sun 12.03 


MER 1.37 VII 5.34 
28-11-19190. 2.00 PM - Ruling Planets. 


Daylord Mercury 
Rasi lord Jupiter 
Star lord Mercury 
Lagna lord Saturn 
Mercury dasa balance 16-5-11 
Mercury bukthi 

Venus anthara balance 0-3-28 


7th sublord is Venus. Venus is stationed in the &th house 
Vrischika, deposited in Mercury Star- Jyeshta, and out of the 9 
divisions of the Jyeshta star, Venus is in the Kethu division- that 
is Kethu sub. Hence Venus in Mercury star, Venus will signify 
the houses of Mercury- 3 and 4, and being in Kethu sub signifies 
house 4 and 5 in full, as Kethu is in the 4th. Here, the 6th house 
in full, belongs to Sun. Kanya- the house of Mercury is included 
in the 6th house. Eventhough Mercury may be related to Kanya, 
stll 6th house, inclusve of Kanya belongs to Sun only. 
Therefore, this 6th house by this 6th house marriage is not 


263 


subjected for negation- it is now confirmed that marriage Is 
promised. 


Houses to be analysed 
for marriage - 2-3-7-11. 
2nd house- Mars-Venus 
7th house- Venus only. 
11th house- 
Rahu-Saturn-Kethu 
3rd house- Sun-Jupiter- 
Mercury-Moon-Venus Significator or connected. 


connected or Significators. 
Significator or connected. 


significater or connected. 


Now let us find out how Rahu Saturn-Kethu and Sun are 
significaters of the 11th house. Saturn ts lord of 11th. In the 
stars of Saturn-Pushya and Anuradha, Kethu and Sun are 
deposited. Rahu is in Makara. Therefore, Rahu is the agent of 
saturn. Hence, Kethu-Sun-Saturn-Rahu are said to be the 
Significators of the 11th house. 


Planets Star Sublord 
Sun Saturn Moon 
Moon Mercury Mercury 
Mars Moon Mars 
Mercury Kethu Venus 
Jupiter Mercury Mars 
Venus Mercury Kethu 
Satum Sun Mars 
Rahu Sun Kethu 
Kethu Saturn Mercury 


264 


Now- we find- 
Lord of 2 and 7 is Venus- in the star of Mercury and in the sub of 
Kethu. 


Lord of 11 is Saturn in the star cf Sun and in the sub of 
Mars. 


The planets connected to 2-7-41 are Mercury, Kethu, Sun 
and Mars, who are found deposited in the stars and or the 
subdivision of the stars. Therefore, Sun while it transits these 
stars or subs which are the sensitive points of the zodiac, we 
calculate the time of marriage. That is Sun transiting in Mesha 
Rasi- the house of Mars, in the star of Kethu and in the sub of 
Mercury or Saturn. Now Moon transit also should tally with the 
transit of Sun, which will be on a particular day and date, which 
date was finally confirmed as the date of marriage. 


The date selected was 26-4-91. This date was informed to 
the parly in writing. Marriage also did take place on 26-4-91 
without tail. On that day, Sun transited in Mesha in 11°38’. The 
Auling Planets were Venus-Mercury-Sun, Uthira star in Kanya 
rasi. 


Therefore, 
oun transit - Mars-Kethu-Mercury 
Moon transit- Mercury-Sun (in Kanya} 
Day- Friday (Venus) 


Therefore, the 5 planets Venus-Sun-Mercury-Mars-Kethu, 
conjointly conducted the marriage. 


265 


The house significators are - 


2 - Venus-Mars 

f- Yenus 

11- Sun-Moon-Saturn-Rahu 
3- Mercury-Venus-Jupiter. 


Eventhough, you have a set up of 2-7-11 house 
significators, only When Sun transits the star and sub of the 
owners ot 2-7-11, then only the marriage takes place. When 
such a cogent level does not arise, then we have to shift and 
alter our calculations to yet another congenially cogent level. 


For example, Mars-Kethu-Mercury is « favourable transit 
track. But you will never get a, Mars-Moon-Mercury transit track. 
Hence, though you may have the significators, to form the 
several type of transit tracks, for the analysis of a matter-event 
linked to the timing of event, it is the Star and Sub of the owners 
of houses alone- which transit track alone in a majority of the 
cases, is more useful and advantageous in application. The 
above said transit-track, Planets play their role. When a situation 
arises that a congenial and cogent transit-track planets are not 
at all available from the House significators, i.e. first fold and 
are second fold. Naturally, we search for the 
transit-track-planets, from the house significators who are the 
3rd and or the 4th fold, for the Sun, Moon transits to complete 
our matter-event, to the last stage. What | have explained above 
is applicable to all matter-events that are to reach the final 
stage. 


sow. S. Rama from Madras- addressed me enquiring, when 
her marriage will take place, and gave the No.157, 


236 


Her address 


S. Ganesh, 

16, Ezhumalai Street, 
West Tambaram, 
Madras 600 045. 


Her letter reached me on 22-12-1991. | took it for 
calculations on 23-12-91, Monday evening at 5.35 PM. Analysis 
of the No.157 is as follows- 


V18.12 


IV 1€.00 


(173.55 
Sat 11.18 


Fa 1638 
lb +304 


slgn - 
fth Venus - 


VIH 13.44 
VI17.58 ViH14.53 
Ke 16.38 


Sun 6.37 
IX 13.55 


No. +57 
Date 23.12.1991 


Time 5.45 PM 
Sat dasa bai 14-3-26 X 16.00 
Jup 20,54 


Mars 23.57 


MER te.07| Yen26.aB | oo. os 


Siar - sub 
Moon - Jupiter 
(in Venus Star) 


Venus lord of 7 and 42 signifies houses 2 and 5. Therefore, 
marriage is pramised/assured. That is 7th sublord Jupiter, in the 
star of Venus, Venus signifies houses 2-5-7-12. As the 7th 
sublard Jupiter is depasited in the stars that are significators of 
the houses 2 and 7, which are the houses of marriage, marriage 


Is assured/promised. 


267 


Marriage-Houses 2-3-7-11 


2- Rahu-Jupiter-Venus 

t- Venus-Jupiter-Rahu 
11- Mercury-Mars 

3- saturn-Moon-Mercury. 


At present, Saturn dasa Merucury Bukthi is on, Saturn and 
Mercury has the power to operate houses 3 and 11. Therefore, 
the ground is prepared for negotiations to shape the marriage 
scene. 


Lord of the 2nd house- Jupiter (But Rahu acts as agent) 
Lord of the 7th house- Venus 

Lord of the 11 th house - Mercury (But Kethu acts as agent) 
Lord of the 3rd house - Saturn. 


star Sub 
2- Jupiter- Venus- Jupiter 
7- Venus- Jupter Venus 
3- Mercury- Satum- Jupiter 
11- Saturn- Moon- Mars. 


. As above, the lords of 2-7-3-11 houses are in the star and 
sub of Venus, Jupiter, Saturn, Moon, Mars. Going by this 
Star-Sub, having made my analysis, | wrote to the girl 
sow.Aama that marriage will take place on 27-5-92. 


But the marriage took place on 7-5-92 itself. That is 20 days 
in advance. 


268 


On the day of marriage (7-5-92), Sun was transiting in 
Mesha at 23°-02'. Moon transits tn the star Puriarvasu after 
9 AM. 


Therefore, marriage took place, when Sun was transiting in 
the Mars house- Venus star and in the sub of Saturn. 


That ts, 
oun transit (23°02) Mars-Venus-Saturn. 
Moon transit 
cin Mithuna) Mercury-Jupiter. 


That is, Mars-Venus-Saturn-Mercury-Jupiter have acted. 
Lords of 2-7-3-11, in whose sitar and sub they stood are also 
Venus-Saturn-Jupiter-Mercury-Mars. Moon alone has not come 
into PICUTRE. Even then, at the auspicious time- i.e. Muhurtha - 
Moon might have emerged as a Sub. Thai is in Mithuna - Lagna 
transit might have been in Mercury-Rahu-Moon during which 
time the Mangalya Dharana ought to have been performed. 


Therefore, if ts the horary chart which is more clear and 
useful io foretell a maiter event than a birth chart. 


Birth chart ts also of importance, but # should have been 
calculated to the correct birth time, of the child. Some deliveries 
are painful or complicated and so on. Whaiever they may be , 
the time, the head of the child is observed, it is enough to be 
taken as birth time- because the oxygen enters through nose, 
and immediately the heart beat starts. At that very time, the 
dasa/pdukthi starts operating. Such a correct birth time noted and 
the birth chart prepared will be superior to the horary charts. 
such a birth chart will speak for itself As far as my knowledge 


289 


goes, not a single birth chart is subjected to proper analysis and 
the predictions made are also far from satisfactory. The moment 
we have a horoscope on hand, atleast to same extent, we must 
first see whether it is erected correcily. In a majority of the 
cases, the current dasa of the Native will tally with the Ruling 
Planet of the moment or of stars/sub, a little this way or that 
way. Again, one can find the Ruling Planets in which sub they 
are, these subs will tell the current events and will be found to 


re true. 


Horary chart is the one, which is meant for prediction of a 
particular matter-event, and once the prediction is declared, this 
Horary Chart is DEAD, once for ever. Therefore, for a Horary 
chart, the present constellation levels are enough. 


But # is not so in the case of a Birth chart. This birth chart, 
dies only at the time when the Native also dies. It lives the full 
span of life of the Native. 


As i lives the full span of life, the sub level predominantly 
offers the impcritant results, more than the stellar level of a 
Planet. 


In a Birth chari, the same lagna is studied again and again 
till the Native expires. For this reason, the present day 
Gochara(transits) is alsa studied to know, how the good or bad 
results are offered to that lagna (Native). The dasa/bukihi 
operating at that time is the base. Based on the dasa/bukthi, the 
planetary - Subs are studied, alongwith the total strength of the 
birth chart, and then a prediction if made, such a prediction will 
be very correct to the minute. - 


290 


For example, in the birlh charl of a Native, if the lord of 7th, 
stands in the stars of lords of 6-12 and also runs the dasa, then 
the marriage is either delayed or the very marriage is denied. 
similarly, lord of 10th, occupies the 9th and also weakened, 
then the profession will face a lot of turbulence, or run on a dull 
note. Profits will also be reduced. Some more upsets will also be 
there. Even then, we should study the dasa/bukihi levels and if it 
is marriage, the levels of lord of 7th and if it is profession, the 
levels of lords of 2 and 10 and so on to some extent. 


if the lord of 7th, eventhough stationed in 6/12, if its 
sub-porlion is connected to 2-3-7-5-11, marriage will take place. 
oimilarly, when lord of 10th, eventhough occupying 9th, but the 
sub-porticn of the lord of 10th, if connected to 2-6-10-11 houses, 
the profession will never get a set back. The improving and 
favourable periods or unfavourable periods are to be judged 
from dasa/bukthi, alongwith transit of Jupiter-Saturn and Rahu 
transits- as they take more transit time- and then, prediction 
should be made. In a majority of cases, no one makes such a 
type of observation and declare their predictions. Some views 
are expressed. They may or they may not come correct. This is 
similar to the saying- the crow sat, and the palm Truit fell. 


Bul in Horary, the problems that an astrologer has to face 
are far less. The astrologer with his sufficient experience, 
knowledge of Sun's transit, the dasa/bukthi on hand, the cuspal 
sublords relevant to a matter-event- what they have to say, and 
then taking into consideration the Chara-Sthire-Ubhaya, the 
constellation, the Retrograde planets, aspects from 
Mars-Saturn-Jupiter, conjuncti#ns to Rahu-Kethu, all of these 
analysed cone by one and then a prediction made will prove 
100% correct. There is no doubt abou tt. 


edi 


Next, we have a horary char, on the birth of a child and bow 
iiwas analysed is as below. Regarding birth of a child, and find 
out whether the birth is Male or female, several contusions crop 
up. The 5th cusp sublord, in whose constellation it is, the lord of 
that constellation occupying a Rasi, whether it is a male rasi or 
female rasi, aspect, conjuction, Rahu/Kethu connections and 
several other levels are to be analysed. That is, the horary charl 
has to be subjected to the above said probes/analysis. Th 
result- some may come correct or some may go wrong. That is. 
at times we cannot escape from confusion. 


In our observations we come across female birth in male 
sign and male birlh in female sign. 5th sublord if it is Venus. 
Moon or Rahu, it is female birth or 5th sublord deposited in the 
stars of Venus-Moon or Rahu then it ts female birth, and - the 
rest are to be decided as Male birlh, and if female planets found 
occupying male signs, the birth to be decided as Male birth and 
so on. thus the analysis has to be made from several angles. 


In a horary charl when we analyse the birth of a child, the 
5th cusp as per the dictates of lagna, the said 5th cusp will tall in 
a sign on a particular deg-min-sec ie. sign-star-sub. For 
example, for child birth, a lady gave the number 163, on 8-7-91. 
lt was analysed in the evening at 4-35 PM. The charl is shown 
below. A litle explaining is made, before we proceed with the 
charl. No 163 falls in Vrischika at 23°-20°. The 5th cusp falls in 
Meena at 27°-55'- that is in Meena sign ie. sign-star-sub will be 
Jupiter-Mercury-Saturn. 


292 


Suh 19.20 
Meo oa aa vicess | VWi23.20 | yitar26 


Ke 25.41 


No. 163 
Ty 25.58 Date 8.7.1991, 4.35 PM 
; AP 
Day - Ven 
Rasi - Jup 
Star - MER 


Hl23.20 
oat 11.25 


Ra 25.41 


1122.26 Xll 26.55 


Sth cusp - 27°55’ - Jupiter-Mercury-Saturn 
Sth sub - Saturn is in the star of Moon (Sravana) 


Mercury dasa balance §8-2-12 
Mars bukthi 0-8-9 
Jupiter anthara 00-14. 

5th sub Saturn is In the star of Moon. 


Moon lord of 9th, signifies houses 8-14 and aspected by 
Jupiter himself, the lord of 5th. Therefore child birth is confirmed. 


Sth sublord in whose constellation it is deposited, that 
constellation lord declares whether a Native is destined to have 
a child or denied and it never says that the child to be born will 
be a male or female. 


What is said above is not only for child birth- 
This sublord in whose constellation it is, that constellation lord, 
tells- whatever the matter we take for analysis, that matter event 
will take place or will not take place, upto the end result of that 
matter. Beyond this, it does not say anything. 


293 


Of this charl, the matler we have taken for analysis is about 
child birth. Itis explained as below. 
The horary charl which is a Nirayana Bhava charl, the bhava 
sputas are for ever a constant set up. For example, 10°00’ in 
Makara means Saturn-Moon-Moon. If it is 11°30’ in the same 
Makara, it means Saturn-Moon-Mars. These levels are 
permanent constant. 


But planets are always on the move. Because of their 
non-stop move, our world undergoes several changes. 


The horary charl No. 163, analysed on 8-7-91 at 4.35 PM, 
has the 5th cusp in Meena at 2/7°55' _ reading 
Jupiter-Mercury-Saturn is always a constant one. Whether one 
analyses on §-7-85 or 8-7-95, this 5th cusp 27°55" for the horary 
No. 163 Is a permanent set up. Accordingly, the 5th cusp sublord 
will be saturn forever. 
PLEASE NOTE : Horary No.163- 5th cusp sublord will always 
be a constant for all places falling on 11° latitude. 5th cusp 
sublord will vary for other latitudes. 


Whether 8-7-85 or 8-7-91 or &8-7-95, the 45th sublord 
eventhough it may be the never changing Saturn, but Saturn, 
where and how it was moving, on such days, will be the cause 
for the changes, found during our analysis. 


Here, for the No 163taken up for analysis, the Sth sublord is 
Saturn. This sublord Saturn, is stationed in Makara in 11°25’, 
reading the sign-star-sub as Saturn-Moon-Mars. 


But KP tells us. that the 5th cusp sublord in whose 
constellation it is deposited, that constellation lord decides 


294 


whether the birth will be a male child or female child. KP also 
tells us that constellation lord, which rast it occupies, the 
aspects, the conjunction are also to be studied to decide the 
birth of a male or female child. These are all, only of an 
approximate level analysis. 


5th sublord is Saturn. This sublord Saturn is deposited in ihe 
star of Moon. Saturn will be maving in this Moon star for a little 
more than a year. Saturn as it is deposited in the Moon star, o 


will not be correct to say, that the birth will be a female child. 


5th sublord will be in a STAR and in that STAR in a SUB. 
Planets related to this SUB, if it is a male planet, then it will be a 
Male child; if it is a female planet, then the birth wil be a female 
child. This dictum will not change. In case, there is to be a 
change, it will be on account of Rahu/Kethu only. For example, in 
this chart, 5th sublord Saturn, this sublord Saturn, stationed in 
Makara, in the star of Moon and in the sub of Mars. This sublord 
Mars, stationed in the Male sign, without any connection to 
Rahu/Kethu by way of conjunction, aspect etc but is only 
deposited in the star of Kethu. Therefore, the birth will be a male 
child is now confirmed. 


The same sublord Mars had it been occupying Meena or 
Karkata and connected to Rahu by conjunction or aspect and 
the Rahu if aspected by Mars, then the birth will be a female 
child, without a doubt. 


Therefore, regarding Child birth, to ascertain whether the 
birth is male or female, the 5th sublord may be any planet (i.e. 
Male or female planet}; again that sublord when deposited in a 
constellation- that constellation lord also may be any planet {i.e. 


295 


male or female planet)- that sublord deposited in a constellation 
and in a SUB- this SUBLORD, if tt be Sun-Mars-Jupiter or 
saturn- then the birth will be a Male child; again this sublord if It be 
Moon, Venus, or Rahu- then the birth will be a.female child. For 
Mercury and Kethu, which Rasi{sign) they occupy, the 
aspects, conjunctions etc are ta be studied and then prediction to 
be made. Whenever analysis is made as explained above, # will 
prove 100% correct. If the analysis goes wrong, then the fault 
lies in erecting the 5th bhava sputa which may be incorrect or the 
sublord in « Retrogression or Rahu/fKethu aspect- 
conjunction and so on, all of them not analysed and applied 
properly. Otherwise, there is no chance at all for Lis to go wrong. 


In this chart 5th sublord is Saturn. Saturn is aeposited in the 
Star Sravana of Moon and in the Sub of Mars. Accordingly, as 


informed to the consultant, Male child was born withoui fail. 


Significaiors- 


5- Jupiter-Kethu-Rahu 
11- Mercury-Jupiter-Moon 
2- Jupiter-Rahu-Saturn 


As a matter of routine, for child birth, Nouses 2-5-11 are 
analysed. Some more levels, need analysis. That is, a chid 
grows in the womb of a mother. Therefore the 4th house is the 
stomach of the mother. Again, therefore, for a child to emerge 
from this 4th house, houses 12-3-6 are to be connected. 


3- 12th house to the 4th house. 
6- labour for child birth (i.e pain) 
t2- Hospital and or labour pain. 


256 


Therefore any woman, during delivery alongwith houses 
3-6-12, the 8th house will also be connected ff. it ts a difficult 
delivery or cisserian. All these houses, Le. 3612-8, Bring the 
child to the outside world, separated from Mother. The 5th 
house, has no capacity to do anylhing explained above. Sth 
house tells all other information about the child. Further details 
on these are explained in the coming pages. 


A child has to come out to the Earih only from the stomach 
of the Mother. Therefore, a pregnant mother when she puts a 
question- what child will be bom- ie. Male or Femaie- the child 
at that time is in herstomach. The 4th house is one's stomach- 
that is where the child is now. Therefore, the child to get out of 
this 4th house- which is the stomach of the Mother- the 3rd 
house has to operate- then only the child birth will take place. 


To repeat again, the above said- the 3rd is the 12th to the 
Ath. Other than this 3rd, 6th and 12th are the labour, the labour 
pain- hospital and so on. Hence at the time of birth of a child, 
sun has to move with connections to houses 3-6-12. At the 
same time, Ruling Planets must also be favourable - as 
significators or by connection to. houses 5 and 11. 


In this chart No. 163, what | have explained above and how 
they have taken place is detailed as under- 
The said child- the Male child was born on 15-2-1992, Saturday 
at 10.15 PM. ¢ made the prediction that the child will be born on 
17-2-1992, and accordingly posted the letter. But the child was 
born on 15-2-1992 itself. The How and Why of it is explained as 
under. On 15-2-1992, 10.15 PM when the child was born- Sun 
was in Kumbha moving on Saturn-Mars-Kethu, that is Saturn 
sign-Mars star and Kethu sub. is here | draw your attention. 


297 


That is Satum, Lord of Kumbha was moving ia Moon's :* © 
and hence connected to 3-9-4; star lord Mars was moving >n the 
star of Kethu and hence connected to 8-1-6. Sub lord Kethu was 
moving inthe star of Jupiter and hence connected to 2-5. Moon 
was transiting the slar Punarvasu in Mithuna rasi. 


1. Ruling Planets - Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter. 
2. Moon transit - Mercury, Jupiler, Mercury. 
3. Sun transit - Satum, Mars, Kethu. 


As per the above planetary set up the child was born. 
Mercury is deposited in the star Pushya signifies 3rd house. 
Mercury owns 8 and 11. 


Saturn 3-9 
Mercury 3-8-11 
Jupiter 8-11-2-5 
Mars 8-11-1-6 
Kethu 2-5-8-11, 


Therefore, Sun and Moon by their transit over the sensitive 
point of the zodiac has covered the house 3 along with houses 
1 -8-8-11, during which transit, the child was born. 


Only the Moon was deposited in Punarvasu star signifying 
the 5th house. 


Houses 2-5-11 are common te all of the Child Birth. If one 
analyses the Sun and Moon transits at the time of birth of a child 
and their connections to houses 3-6-8-11-12, they will find the 
analysis to be a 100% success. 


298 


Next, regarding Child birth, as predicted by me it was a Twin 
birth, and the twins were born one week before the predicted 
time. The twins- both are Male and the twins are hale and 
healthy. Details explained below: 


The mother Sow. Amudha who was to deliver the twins, 
herself gave the No.122. She is the daughter of one 
Mr.Angappan, a KP student and is all well acquainted to me. 


Mars 21.00 [Xx 23 37 KX 22.42 
Vil 24.06 VI 24.15 Van 24.28 


Jup 3.168 


Ke 13.26 
vl 23.45 Meo. 122 Sun 17.63 


Date 4.8.1990, 2.30 AM Xl 22.42 


Compbatare 
V 22.42 Ven. balance 11-5-3 Men ot 14.04 


Ha 13.26 Men ot 23.45 


Sat 26.56 
hy 22.42 Ii 23.37 He24.18 
Moon 19.034 


Day - Saturn 
Rasi- Jupiter (Dnanus) 
atar- Venus (Poorvashada) 


Sth sub lord- Sun in the star of Mercury. Mercury - 
2-9-11-10-1. In this chart, the 5th cusp falls in Makara in 22°42”. 
Lord of Makara is Satum. Saturn is deposited in the Moon's star 
and in the sub of Sun. 


Theretore 5th sub lord, being Sun, it is deposited in the star 
Aslesha, whose lord is Mercury. Mercury as we all know is not 
only the lord of the dual sign, but is also a dual planet meaning 


299 


plurality, that is more than one. We find Sun in Aslesha in 
Cancer in 17°53’, i.e. posited in Mercury star and Mercury sub. 


Further this 5th sub lard, Sun is conjoined with Jupiter a 
male planet and also a lord of another dual sign, and also 
having the 4th aspect from Mars. Therefore, the child birth to be, 
is confirmed that it will be a twin birth and the twins will be 
males. Accordingly, on 2-9-90, Sunday at 6.10 PM- twins- both 
male- were born. 


But | had predicted that the child will be bom on Friday, 
7-9-90. Even though the birth was 5 days earlier, my prediction 
had come true as Twin birth and also as Male children. How a 
100% correct result could be predicted regarding sex and as 
twins is explained below- what are the import ant that made me 
to predict so? 


First let us analyse the reasons for birth, which was 5 days 
earlier than the prediction made. 


Day of birth- Day sunday sun 
asi Makara saturn 
Star oravana Moon 

Lagna at 6.16 PM Lagna Kumbha saturn. 


Theretore Saturn, Moon, Sun the three planeis are 
responsible for the child birlh, the rising of lagna, the rasi, the 
star and the sun transit. 


According to the chart No.122, significators of the houses, 
for Child Birth- 


JO0 


2 Venus-Mars-Moon-Mercury 


5 Saturn-Rahu-Kethu ° 
11- Moon-Rahu-Saturn 
3 Mars. 


Therefore, at the time of child birth, significators of houses 
2-35-11 have played their role. Further even though Hahu, Kethu 
and Mercury were also the significators of houses 2-5-11, but 
they have not taken part in the event- child birth, because, Rahu 
is stationed in the 4th and also aspected by Sun (lord of 12th) 
and Jupiter (lord of 4th). Therefore Hahu is not a qualified 
planet, relevant to child birlh. 


Nexl is Kethu- Kethu even though he is in the star of Saturn. 
lord of the 5th, Kethu as the agent of Moon, Kethu has given the 
Moon's star- that is Sravana as the birth star of the child. 


Next is Mercury- Mercury is lord of 1 and 10. Mercury is in 
the star of Venus, indicating houses 2-9-10. For the child to be 
separated from the stomach of the mother, (stomach- 4th 
house}, the functioning of the 3rd house is utmost important. 
Now the Mercury, we are talking about has no connection at all 
to the 3rd house. But Sun and Kethu are having the aspect of 
Mars. For the reason, Sun had the aspect of Mars, the lord of 
the 3rd, the child was bom on a Sunday- Kumbha lagna (lagna 
star Dhanishta). 


Therefore, when Sun, Moon, Lagna transits the sensitive 
paints of the significaters of Houses 2-3-5-11, favourably tallying 
with one ancther, child birth is a matter of sure and certain. 
Through practical experience any one can calculate this timing 
of event without an error. 


i601 


Our next analysis is to find out the sex of the child, which 
n-§ to be judged minutely. Further the child birth is a single one 
or twins or more than two. At time we hear about births of 
triplets. A few of the animals deliver several young ones. What 
is the basic reason for such births. Pondering over such 
happenings, we are able to understand certain truths, that are 
stored in the rasis, the 12 divisions of the zodiac- the Kala 
Purusha. 


The Rasis- Human rasis- Two legged 
Animal rasis Four legged 
Birds rasis Feathered legs 


Many legged rasis § Many legged. 


The set up of rasis are of 4 types as explained above. The 
Dhathu, Moola, Jeeva rasis and the planets as they orbit, during 
their orbits undergo certain conjunctions, and a change within 
them. This change is the cause for the birih of the human being, 
the animals that line on land, that live in water, that are able to 
slide fast that are able to fly and so on. What | have explained 
is only through few words. If have to explain what are the 
causes for the changes in the births of human beings and other 
animals and still about the Plant Kingdom, a separate book 
needs to be written. Therefore, | am coming back to the subject 
proper. 


We will now discuss, how KP is very useful to determine the 
sex of the child, and the birth will be single, twins or triplets and 
It so the twins, Whether both are male or female or amongst the 
{twins one male and one female. 


J02 


In this Horary Chart No.122, the 5th cusp falls in Makara 
22 42' - i.e. Saturn sign- Moon star and Sun sul5. This 5th sub 
lord Sun is in Cancer 17°53' deposited in Mercury star. 


Whatever may be the subject matter, and whichever house 
cuspal sub lord will be deposited in a star. This starlord will 
precisely and decisively decide and tell, whether the maiter 
taken up for discussion will take place or NOT and whether it will 
be favourable or unfavourable. And this starlord will not tell a 
single word about any ciher matter. 


That is, say for example when we analyse about marriage- 
whether marriage will take place or will not take place is 
decisively said by the starlord in whose constellation, this 7th 
sub lord is deposiied. This sitarlord if it signifies houses 2-7-11, 
marriage will take place; and if this starlord signifies houses 
1-10-6-12, this starlord is empowered toa say that marriage will 
not take place. Beyond this say of Yes or No, this starlord has 
no authority to tell any other thing taken up tor analysis. That ts 
this starlord will not tell anything about the GirVBoy, her beauty, or 
height, or qualification and or lean/stout and so on. All such 
information, as explained, are revealed by the 7th sub lord, and 
the sub lord of the constellation in which the 7th sub lord ts 
deposited. 


As explained above, let us now look at this Horary Chart 
No.122, wherein the 5th cusp sub lord is Sun. This sub lord Sun 
is deposited in the star Aslesha whose lord is Mercury. This 
starlord Mercury, will tell very clearly whether the child birth is 
promised or denied or aborted or dead and born and so on 


303 


How? 


The starlord (in whase constellation the 5th sub lord ts 
deposited) if connected to the houses of child birth which are 2-5- 
3-9-11, child birth is assured: and ff that starlord is 
connected to the negating house 4-10-72, then tt reveals the 
several type of difficulties involved in the birth of a child, through 
the planets that are connected io the houses 4-10-12. But this 
Star lord will not tell about the sex of the child, or whether the 
birth will be a single or twins and so on. 


5th sub lord will be deposited in a star and to that extent 
only it will speak of signification. Nothing more than that. 


Again - 3th sub lord will be deposited in a star and it will be 
deposited in a Sub also. This sub lord alone will tell the sex of = 
the child and also about the birth of a single baby or twins and 


=Q OF. 


To sum up, what! have explained above is - 


1. 5th sub lord - Its significations are of a 
particular houses. 
2. 5th sub lord - in whose constellations it is 


deposited that constellation 
lord's significations are of 
different houses. 

3. 5th sub lord deposited in a constellation 
and (deposited) in a sub- this 
sub's significators are of yet 
other houses. 


Coming back again to the subject proper- 


304 


1. 5th sub lord is Sun- Sun ts deposited in the star of 
Mercury (i.e dual planet and also lord of the dual sign). The Sth 
sub lard sum of its deposit in Mercury star, Sun himself has 
declared that the child to be born will be twins. 


2. Sun is deposited in the star of Mercury. Mercury (in the star of 
Venus) signifies house 2-9-11 and declared that the delivery 
will be safe. 


3. Sun is deposiied in the star of Mercury and also in the sub 
of the same Mercury. This sub lord Mercury, being a dual planet is 
stationed in the Male sign Simha, and declared about the sex- 
that the twins - both of them will be male . 


Mithuna-Kanya-Thula-Kumbha are Human signs- that is two 
legged. 


Mesha-Rishaba-Simha-Dhanus are Animal signs- that is 
four legged. {Bestial) 


When a sub lord is owner of a Human sign and if stationed 
in a male sign, then the birth will be a Male child; if stationed in a 
female sign,then the birth will be a female child. 


If the sub lord is a female planet- i.e. Moon, Venus, Rahu 
(as explained above like star-sub deposits and so on) and when 
stationed in a Male sign, of the twins one birth will be a male 
and another born will be a female child: and if stationed tn a 
female sign, the both of the twins born will be female children. 


Venus Female planet dual planet 
Rahu Eunuch planet dual planet 


305 


Moon(alone) Female planet single planet 


The above satd planets’ Venus, Rahu and Moon are 
subjected to, where they are stationed for example in 
Male/Female sign, dual sign, bestial sign and aspected by 
Jupiter, Mars, Saturn and their transits in Dhathu, Mocla. 
Jeevan rasis they undergo certain changes. 


Chara rasis 4 Dhathu rasis 
sthira rasis 4 Moola rasis 
Ubhaya rasis 4 Jeeva rasis 


Through practical experience one can well analyse following 
the guilelines mentioned abave, and predict very clearly about 
the sex and birth of the child. 


In this chart, 5th sub lord is Sun - in the star of Mercury- and 
in the sub of Mercury. This sub lord Mercury ts stationed in the 
Male sign Leo (Simha}. The sub lard Mercury ts lord of the dual 
sign {2 legged) and is stationed tn the Male sign withtn 15°00". 
Therefore Sun as per his star and sub deposit declared that the 
birth is a twin and both of the twins are Male child. 


The 5th sub Sun is in the star of Mercury. Mercury is in the 
star of Venus, signifying houses 2-9-10-11-1, and thereby 
declared by tis signification that ihe deliver’ is a safe one. 


To repeat again- About Child Birth, whenever we analyse- 
the 5th sub lord in whose constellation it is deposited, that 
constellation lord decisively tells whether one is destined to 
have a child or a child birth is denied or tndicate other safe or 


306 


unsafe type of deliveries. That is this constellation lord tells 
ONLY Yes or No of the child birth. 


Sth sub lord- through its star deposit- the sub of that star 
lord tells about single or twin or triplet births. 


5th sub lord- through its starl deposit- the sub of that 
stariord, in which Male/Female signs, it is moving, accordingly 
reveals the sex of the child as to Male or Female or if twins 
whether both are male or female or one male and the other 
female. 


To the above said, when the 5th sub lord or the 5th sub lord 
deposited in a star and sub- this stariord & sub lord- if 
Rahu/Kethu are connected to them by way of aspect- which 
planet is aspecting Rahu/Kethu or conjunctions with Rahu/Kethu 
should be taken note of. in case there is no aspect or 
conjunction to Rahu/Kethu, we must find out as to which of the 
houses these Rahu/Kethu act as agents. Taking all these points 
and analysed, we will get the results very clearly to the minute. 


Rahu & Kethu 


When two circles cut each other, there are two points of 
interception. The two points at which the orbit of Moon cuts the 
orbit of the sub are called the Nodes, and they are exactly 180° 
aparl. The point of intersection formed when the Moon's motion 
is from South to North, is said to be the ascending Node and 
named RAHU, and the point of interception formed when the 
Moon’s motion is trom North to South is called the descending 
Node or KETHU. (Reterence- Second Reader - Page 313) 


307 


The differences between planets like Sun, Moon, the 7 
planets and Rahu/Kethu are many. Rahu/Kethu are shadowy 
planets. if one is to write only about Rahu/Kethu, it will run to 
several pages. 


We therefore will deal. only about the results that 
Rahu/Kethu are to offer, how they function and other levels of 
matters. 


All of the 7 planets from Sun to Satum, in which star they 
are deposited, will predominantly offer the results of the house 
that stariord occupies and then the houses owned by that 
Stariord. 


But Rahu/Kethu, as we know they are Chara grahas, offer 
results in a diflerent and opposite way. There are other levels of 
strength in built in Rahu/Kethu, and strange are the ways, as 
they offer the results. 


1. Any planet deposited in the star of Rahu/Kethu, it is 
Rahu/Kethu that will ofler the results of that planet. 


2. When found, NO planet in the stars of Rahu/Kethu, these 
Rahu/Kethu will offer the results of the planets that are 
conjoined with them. 


3. Any planet, that aspects Rahu/Kethu, the Nodes will give 
the results of the aspecting planets. 


4. When No planet is aspecting Rahu/Kethu, when No 
planet is conjoined with Ra/Ke, when No planet is in the stars of 
Ra/Ke, THEN ONLY the Rahu/Kethu offers the results of the 


408 


constellation lord in whose constellation they are deposited- i.e. 
where the constellation lord is and the houses ewned by that 
constellation lord predominantly. 


9. Of the Nodes, Ra/Ke to offer the results as explained 
above, it is Rahu who has more strength to offer the results. 
Comparatively Kethu is less strong to offer such results as 
explained above. 


All the above details are explained as below- 


1. No.7 In this charl, Rahu is conjoined with Moon and 
Venus. 


2. No.2. In this charl, Rahu is NOT conjoined with any 
planet, but Rahu is aspected by Jupiter. 


369 


3. No.3. In this chart Rahu is NOT conjoined with any planet and 
Rahu is not aspected by any planet. Mars is deposited in the 
star of Rahu, that is Arudhra, (said for example) 


4 Rahu is stationed tn Mesha, and is in the star of Sun, tnat is 
Krithika. {said for example). 


As such, how and what results, Ranu will offer is explained - 
No. Rahu ts conjoined with Moon and Venus- What are the 
results’?- lf a Native runs Moon dasa or Moon bukthi OR Venus 
dasa, Venus bukthi, Moon as lord of 6th for Kumbha lagna, we 
all Know that Moon will offer result according to its (Moon} Star 
Deposit. As Moon will centre itself of its 6th house and thraugh 
H, tf will offer the result of the cansitellatian lord, in whose 
constellation it was deposited- and the houses owned by that 
constellation lord, here,if the result of the 6th house of the Moon 
has to materialise, then it will be during Moan dasa or Mcon 
bukthi- which ever it may be, the results will be affered ONLY 
during Rahu anthara or Rahu bukthi, or Ranu Sookshama. Thai 
Is Moon will be capable to offer tts own 6th house resuli only 
during Rahu bukthi or Rahu anthara or Rahu Sookshama. 


6th house contains matters of several level, like borrowing, 
receipt of money, disease, to have success, separation from 
wife and so on. How such matters Moon, lord of 6th is 
deposited. For Kumbha lagna- if Moon is in the star of Jupiter, 
then it will be 2-6-17- that is inflow of money; if Moon is in the 
star of Mercury then it will be ,2-5-8-6 - that is ane will have 
debts: if Moon is tn its own constellation, then it will be sickness 
or separation of wife. As such to offer these results of the 6th 
house of the Moon, if will be during Moon dasa-Rahu bukthi OR 
Moon bukthi-Rahu anthara periods only. Further when the 6th 


310 


house matters are required, Sun transit also has to be there- 
that is Sun has to transit in any one of the stars of Rahu, when 
alone 6th house matiers will result. 


| have explained above so far, about Rahu conjunct with 
Moon. inthe same manner everything should be understood for 
Rahu conjunct with Venus. 


In chart No.2, Rahu is aspected by Jupiter. If a Native runs 
Jupiter dasa, Jupiter will offer the results of the constellation lord 
in whose constellation it is and then the houses owned by that 
constellation lord. But for Kumbha lagna Jupiter is lord of 2 and 
11. Therefore during Jupiter dasa to get the results of houses 
2-11, you have to wait till Rahu bukthi period. If Gurubukthi is on 
you have to wait till Rahu anthara period. Nexi, if Rahu dasa 
itself is on, then ARahu will offer the results of house 2 and 11 of 
Jupiter in full. That is- what we mean by- that Rahu will give the 
results of planets- those planets conjunct with Rahu or those 
planets that aspect Rahu- Hahu will offer the results of houses 
owned by those planets. 


Next we take up Chart No.3. In this chart Mars is deposited 
in the constellation of Rahu- i.e. Arudhra. As mars is lord of 3 
and 10 for Kumbha lagna. Rahu will ofler the results of houses 
3-10 during Rahu dasa or Rahu bukthi. During Mars dasa, the 
results of houses 3-710 will be oflered by Rahu only during Rahu 
bukthi or Aahu anthara. 


That is houses 3 and 10 may indicate several matters out of 
which it indicates sale of one’s land or house. 


a11 


That is 4th bhava indicates our hause or land. 3rd bhava 
being 72th to 4th indicates, the house being separated from us- 
that ts sale of house. Similarly 10th bhava is the 4th bhava to 
the opponeni- counted from 7th. Therefore when our land or 
house getting separated from us and this same house by way of 
sale simultaneously joins the opponent who gets ownership 
right- is indicated by houses 3-10. As such in Mars dasa or 
Rahu dasa is on during this Mars dasa Rahu bukthi or Rahu 
dasa Mars bukihi only the house go on sale. 


No.4 Rahu ts stationed tn Mesha tn the star of Sun 
(Krithika}. When Rahu is not conjunct with any planet, when 
Rahu is not aspected by any planet, when no planet is found in 
the stars of Rahu, for this Kumbha lagna, Rahu will offer the 
results of the 7th house in full whose lord in Sun. Rahu being 
stationed in the 3rd- acting as owner of 3-10 will offer the result 
cf the 7th house. 


To tell the above said in a different way- it will be - ihe 
Native will sell his house in the name of his own Wife. Similar 
such other level maiters will also be there. All these have to be 
Undersicoed as we analyse such matters. 


Now we will discuss about Kethu. Ketnhu will not subject 
itself to several level matters, like that of Rahu, while offering 
results. Kethu will offer results, according to its star depasit only 
and as occupant of the house. 


When a planet ts conjoined with Kethu, that planet ts under 
the aspect of Rahu. For this reason Kethu cannot act for the 
conjoined planet. 


312 


When Jupiter, Saturn, Mars happens to aspect Kethu, by 
their special aspects, then kethu will offer the ,esults of the 
aspecting planets Jupiter-Saturn and Mars. 


ALL ABOUT LAGNA LORD : 


The lagna lord also known as the Ascendant Lord according 
to birth, has certain objective levels circumventing this cbjective 
level of the lagna lord, all other levels good or bad, rich or poor, 
educated or rustic, and still other matters of life are formed 
either in abundance or found wanting or found in a middle level. 


When we say all other levels, starting from lagna level every 
level is subjective, which includes all the shades of human Iie, 
in which 2nd bhava-weatth, 4th bhava-Education and yet other 
bhavas, each one of the, as they have to indicate all of the 
destined matters, but only under the umbrella of the lagna lord. 
Anything surprising? Never a surprise- Everyihing is true to the 
core. 


When a Lagna lord stands powerless, accordingly all other 
bhavas stands weakened. All other bhavas other than the lagna 
lord, even if they are strong, they can ofler the results, only on 
the strength of the lagna lord. Accordingly, the results offered 
will be more or stand reduced. No doubt about tt. 


Cerlain examples will be self explanatory to prove what is 
said above. 


In a gathering for a small function, few people have 
assembled. As the function is on, tea & snacks was needed fo: 


a1d 


this small gathering. A simpleton in the true sense, was 
requested to procure the required teas & snacks. That simpleton 
also did the job. This simpleton is one amongst the gathering. A 
person who had no status, no prestige- that Mr.Simpleton was 
selected to do the catering job. The gathering could not select 
someone else. What is the reason? Other than this 
Mr.Simpleton all other persons in the gathering were found to be 
popular and had some status. Therefore this catering job was 
not ta be done by these higher-ups. 


Our Mr.Simpleton, like all other persons, also had a lagna. 
Needless to say also the other 11 bhavas. Certain levels might 
also be found strong. But his lagna lord was not a strong one. 
Hence, he was selected and directed to the menial servicing job. 
All this was said for an example. Therefore if the lagna lord 
stands weak, then all other levels in ones life stands reduced or 
even crippled. 


Whatever may be the matter, that matter travels towards 
lagna. The very lagna and the lagna lord are the paih. Of the 12 
rasis any one of it is formed as lagna, according to birth time. 
This lagna is called the tst house, followed by the other 11 
houses. Lagna- the 1st house, is the first door of all the other 
bhavas. YWhen this first door is opened, then only, we will be 
able to know the levels of other houses. 


Let us lock at another example. A carpenter makes bureau 
or cupbeard. According to his thinking the cupboard or bureau 
may be big or small or of medium size. If the bureau or 
cupboard is big, the doors and other chambers alse will be big; if 
the bureau er cupboard Is small- naturally the door and other 
charmers also will be small. By sheer common sense we can 


314 


understand the benefit and advantage between the big and 
small sized cupboard. Similarly we will take this-example for a 
lagna lord. If the lagna lord is strong, the other bhava levels 
equally favourable will offer favourable results in abundance. Ii 
the lagna lord is weak, even if other Bhavas are sufficiently 
strong then the results to be offered will be very much reduced. 


About lagna lord- Howto judge- A strong lagna lord 
and A weak lagna lord 


Human births can oniy be born embracing the three levels 
which are - 


Chara rasi One type of level. 
sthira rasi One type of level. 
Ubhaya rasi One type of level. 


A particular huraan birth will also have to be under one of 
the three levels. Based on one of these 3 levels as & source, the 
other bhava levels are formed 


Here, 
the 4 Chara rasis always aspect their respective 11th rasi. 
the 4 Sthira rasis always aspect their respective 9th rasi. 
the 4 Ubhaya rasis always aspect their respective 7th rasi. 


This is how the rasi structures are formed. As such for 
persons born in Ghara rasis, the 11th house is badhakasthana, 
for persons born in Sthira rasis, the 9th house is the 
badhakasthana and fer persons born in Ubhaya rasis, the 7th 
house is the badhakasthana. This badhakasthana indication is 
only for the parlicular Chara, Sthira, Ubhaya rasis. The 11th 


315 


house, a badhakasthana for Chara barns, is a good one for 
sthira boms. 


Why ts it so? Because, the aspected rasis receive the 
harmful casmic rays from the aspecting rasis, and thereby 
destroys all that is good and also anything good that can be 
delivered. Naturally any one rast, that does not receive the 
harmful cosmic rays from the aspecting rasis offer good results. 


Chara rasis Mesha-Karkata- Thula-Makara 
Sthira rasis Rishaba-Simha-Vrischika-Kumbha 
Ubhaya rasis M ithuna-Kanya-Dhanus-Meena. 


Chart No.1 - has Mesha being one of the 4 Chara rasis. Chart 
No.2 - has Rishaba being one of the 4 Sthira rasis. Chart 
No.3 - has Mithuna being one of the 4 Ubhaya rasis. 


316 


The said badhakasthanas are marked by arrow indication 
and number, as 11-9-7. The aspected 11th house Kumbha, is 
unable to offer the beneficial favourable results to Mesha borns, 
as Mesha rasi aspects the 11th Kumbha by its harmful cosmic 
rays. Hence the 11th house is totally destroyed by all the Chara 
lagna rasis. At the same time, this 11th house is in no way 
harmful te Sthira and Ubhaya lagna rasis. To the contrary they 
offer good results. 


As such, under the circumstances explained above, if a 
lagna lord is stationed in a badhakasthana, the Native's 
longevity is a middle life one. The Native may have all comforts 
in life and still he will have no peace of mind. Taking into 
account of the other planets role also, the degree of favourable 
results will also be of a downward trend, and will never reach a 
higher level. All rasis have 2 14 stars. Then again the lagna 
lord, who is stationed in a badhakasthana, if deposited in the 
stars of lords of 6-8-12 or 5-8-12, then that lagna lord loses his 
total strength absolutely. 


such a weak level of the lagna lord, is well estimated by 
other bhavas, and accordingly the other bhavas_ control 
themselves to see the favourable results to be offered are 
reduced or even denied to the Native. The planets of such of 
those bhavas, be they exalted or having a ownership status, 
they can offer results only according the relationship between 
the lagna lord and the respective bhavas. 


What I have said above is explained through an example- 
Imagine a Ration shop. Many persons are standing in the 
que/line. A Native born in Mesha having a weak lagna lord is 
also standing in the que. A person ahead of this Mesha born, is 


ol? 


supplied of. his ration materials. Nexl is the turn of this Mesha 
lagna born. The person before him had 10 kgs-Sugar, 4 
kgs-Rice, etc. Now the same person (Ration shop man) supplies 
every material to Mesha lagna born also. How and what was the 
supply. Sugar 2kgs and Rice 1 Kg only. Why was it so; because 
in that Ration card nothing more was written. Hence, as found in 
the Ration card the supply was made. Next the Mesha person 
moves to the place wheretrom oil is supplied. Here, too the 
Mesha born receives a less quota as per his Ration card. There 
are 12 rooms in the Ration shop with several types of provision 
materials, for supply to the public. But this Mesha lagna born, 
according to the quota, found in his Ration card, gets only 
reduced supply from all the 12 rooms. The suppliers are strong 
and hefty fellows. But these supplies will supply, exactly what is 
written in the Ration card- and never a single rice more. 


similarly, every Native has a Brought Forward surplus or 
deficit financial/material balance sheet, brought from his 
previous birth on the basis of "As you sow, So you Reap". 
Accordingly, a Native is bern with a lagna and a lagna lord, and 
gets a Ration card, only tor reduced supplies. Ration cards with 
increased supplies, will not be given to our Mesha lagna born. 
The 12 bhavas are already stored with several matters. 
Accordingly, the good and bad are offered to a Native correlated 
to the strength of the Lagna lord and the respective other 
bhavas. 


Here what is written in the Ration card- is to be though of 
from our previous birth on the basis of "As you sow, So you 
Reap'- 


318 


a. Brought Forward- Strong/weak Lagna & lagna lord. 


b. Supplies- Strongfat/lean Planets exalted or with 
ownership rights. 

c. People in que Dasa/bukihi. 

d. The 12 rooms The 12 bhavas. 


| hope my Readers are able to understand easily. 


A Mesha lagna born though he lived a pitiable life for 
sometime, he also lined a comfortable life. Similarly, another 
Mesha lagna born who lived a comfortable life for sometime, 
also lived a miserable life. In our day to day experience we 
come across such people, not only of Mesha lagna birth, but 
other lagna births also. Sum totally, for all the ups and downs in 
life of any individual, it is the lagna and the lagna lord which is 
responsible. 


Even when lagna and lagna lord is strong a few for 
sometime live a life of distress. Such persons are similar to the 
people standing in que- that is, adverse dasa/bukthi is the main 
cause. 


The lagna and lagna lord is strong. But the native suffers. 
This will be till the arrival of planets to run the dasa/bukthi, free 
of 5-6-8-12 connection. 


When lagna and lagna lord is strong and, if dasa/oukthi 
lords are connected to 5-6-8-12, then life will be a miserable 
one. 


When lagna and lagna lord is weak, and when strong 
planets in no way connected to 5-6-8-12, run the dasa, then also 
Nie wid not be a comforlable one. 


319 


We. come across a few persons who are posted as clerk. 
They retire as clerk only. Still a few run a cigarette/Beedi stall. 
Their life will be over without a rise in life. And yet a few will be 
telling astrology. Without a rise in life, this astrologer reaches 
the heavens. 


A Native will be a half-baked astrologer. During his middle 
age, this astrologer will be earning a few lakhs and have a 
comfortable life. 


Few persons will be in simple occupations, and in their 
middle of life they will be leading a life like a Minister or VIPs. 


All such changes happen when lagna and lagna lord is 
strong followed by fruitful dasa/bukthi, during which time, 
persons reach a higher status. 


When lagna and lagna lord stands weak, any fruitful 
dasa/bukthi cannot give a comfortable life, to the Native. Such a 
Native to get 10 kgs Rice, geis only 2 kgs rice. That is their 
happiness in life wil be a very narrow one. The said fruifful 
dasa/bukthi lords even if they are exalted or has the ownership 
right or a strength in any manner, the weak lagna lord gets 
everything reduced (as said by Ration card example, of any 
provision material from the +2 rooms of the Ration shop) from all 
the 12 bhavas, as these bhayvas keeps their doors closed. So 
much so any birth according to a birth time, if a lagna and the 
lagna lord is not found to be strong the word “comfortable life", 
cannot be found in the Native's dictionary. 


lf the lagna lord is strong and the lagna farmed is weak, the 
Native will have a middle level comfort in life but will not have 


320 


higher comforts or prosperity etc. At the same time, they will not 
have a life of disgrace. ’ 


By an example chart, it is explained about strong lagna and 
lagna lord, but a weak 4th bhava made the Native a Graduate. 
Similarly, a lagna and the lagna lord being weak, but the 4th 
bhava being strong the Native did not even had his SSLC is also 
explained as below. 


Birth 14-9-1941 - Sunday 10.30 PM. 
Planetary positions- 


Sun-Uthira 1st Venus - Chithra 4th 
Moon- Arudhra ist saturn - Krithika 3rd 
Mars - Aswini 1st Rahu - Uthira ist 
Mercury - Hastha 3rd Kethu - P.badhra 3rd 
Jupiter - Mrigasira 2nd Lagna ° Krithika 4th. 


Native is a M.A. M.Ed 
Lagna & Lagna lord 


Is strong 
Ramu Dasa balance 
15-4-20 


The Native has the Rishaba lagna and the lagna Is on 
Krithika star. Lagna lord is Venus, though stationed in the 6th, 
Venus has the ownership right. Lagna lord Venus is deposited in 


321 


the star of Mars- lord of 7-12, thereby Venus is not connected 
to the 8th house. Venus is also not connected to the 9tti house 
Makara- a badhakasthana for Hishaba lagna as Venus |s not 
deposited in the stars of Saturn or conjunct with Saturn or 
aspected by Satum. Venus is stationed in the 6, and for this 6th 
house, Venus is the rightful owner. Naturally, he is the rightful 
owner of lagna, but this lagna ownership ot Venus, does not in 
any way make Venus a strong lagna lord. At the same time 
Yenus has not gone down as a weak lagna lord 


almilarly the lagna bhava is on the star of Sun who ts lord of 
4th, similar to lagna lord Venus deposited in the star of the 7th 
Kendra lord Mars. Thereby both the lagna bhava and the lagna 
lord are to be known as strong. Had this Venus, either stationed 
in the 8th, or in the Sth house or in the stars of Saturn or 
conjunct with Saturn aspected by Saturn who is the 
badhakadhipathi, then the lagna lord is totally a weak lord. 


lf the lord of 8th and lord of 9th- the badhakathipathi- are 
stationed in the lagna bhava, they have nothing to do, to tell 
about a lagna bhava or about a lagna lord. That is the lagna 
bhava and the lagna lord should be directly connected to 8 and 
9 in all respects. That is lagna bhava should be in the star of 
Jupiter who is lord of 8th or in the stars of Saturn- the 
badhakathipathi. 


PLEASE NOTE : The lagna bhava means Lagna cuspal 
sublord. This lagna cuspal sublord should not be deposited in 
the constellation of Jupiter- Lord of 8th or in the constellation of 
saturn, the badhasthanadhipathi. 


J22 


Similarly will be the same as explained above for lagna lord. 
Here too, if there is no connection to 12-6, then the lagna lord 
will be very very strong. If 8th and badhakasthana is connected, 
then the lagna ‘ord will be very very weak. 


As it is, for this lagna, Rahu is in the 4th. The general saying 
will be Rahu will spoil the education. But Moon the chief 
significater for Mother in the star of Rahu, and Moon as lord of 
the 3rd, the Native lost his mother at the young age. This is a 
diferent type of observation. We have taken up for analysis 
about the education. The lagna bhava is in the star of lord of 4th 
and gets fortified. The lagna lord is in the star of Mars who is 
lord of 4th to 4th i.e. 7th and stationed in Thula, his own house. 
Thereby, the lagna lord also attains the strength. Hence, the 
Native during Jupiter dasa itself (Jupiter- lord of 8th} because a 
graduate. Jupiter though lord of 8th, he ts also lord of 11th, 
Jupiter. stood hidden from 8th, which made the 11th a strong 
one, and the dasa was on. This strength may be a small one, 
and the dasa was on. this strength may be a small one, bul the 
lagna bhava and lagna lord are strong. This is similar to getting 
a loan without any difficulty by pledging our own gold 
ornaments. Similar to the example, the Native had his education 
upto M.A. M.Ed without any hurdles. He is working as a Head 
Master and is having a happy life. From this what is it we are 
able to understand. That is when lagna bhava and lagna lord 
having attained a good strength, and inspite of the 4th house 
being weak, the Native became a graduate, during the dasa of 
lord of 11th, Because the lord ot 11th was also the lord of 8th, 
the Native first completed his B.A and then with an income from 
"Even while your learn", completed his M.A. That is in over 
stretch he did not come to the M.A. level. The reason fro such a 
small strain is the 8th level matters. The lagna lord if it had no 


ged 


connection to 6-12 and lagna also had it not been in the siz 
deposit of the 4th, the Native would have had his education upto 
Ph.D level. That is, though 6-12 connection was here, and as 
there was no connection to the 8th and the badhakasthana Sth, 
the lagna bhava and the lagna lord had only middle level 
strength 'o mak= the Native a mere degree holder. 


We ore now faking up an example chart, wherein the lagna 
lord is weak but the 4th bnava is strong which levels did not 
tnake the Native to have an =hicgtcn. even upto SSLC, 


10 9 1925 
5.30 PM 


Ven. dasa bal 11-6-0 


Planetary positions- 


Sun - P.Palguni 4 Venus - P.Palguni 4 
Moon - P.Palguni 2 Saturn - Chithra 1 
Mars - P.Palguni 1 Rahu P.Palguni 2 
Mercury - Hastha 3 Kethu - Sathabisha 4 
Jupiter - Vishaka 1 Lagna - Dhanishta 4 


The lagna is Kumbha, lagna lord is in the 8th. This 8th 
house, except long life, cannot give any other benefits. Lagna 


324 


lord Saturn is also conjunct with Mercury, who is lord of the 8th. 
Saturn and Mercury are intimate friends. Lagna lord stationed in 
the Sith is in the star of Mars who is lord of 3 and 10. 


Lagna bhava is in the star of Mars. Mars is in the star 
P.Palguni of Venus, who is a badhakathipathi tor Kumbha lagna. 
Venus being lord of 9th. Therefore, lagna bhava lost its strength. 
Lagna lord Saturn, as owner of 1 and 12, stationed in the 8th. 
That is lagna lord also lost his strength. Saturn being in the star 
of Mars signifying 3-10, the Native was not pushed to any 
disgrace will repute, but at the same time it cannot be denied 
that Saturn lost its strength. To be stationed in the 8th and 
signifying houses 3 and 10, and without being staticned in the 
houses 6-38-12 and signifying houses 3 and 10 are of a very 
diflerent type. To be stationed in the 8th and signifying houses 3 
and 10, the results of which will be of a very narrow level. But to 
be stationed in 4-?-10-1-71-2 and signifying houses 3 & 10- the 
resutls of which will be of a very broad fevel Therefore, it will 
new be very clear to understand that both the tegna bhava and 
the lagna lord lest its strength. 


Nexi- 4th bhava falls in Rishaba in the star of Sun (Krithika). 
Yenus lord of 4th is in his own star P.Palguni. Sun is also in the 
star of Venus lord of 4th. Therefore, the 4th house 15 a very 
strong cone. Further, Venus lord of 4th is stationed in the 7th 
attained the Kendra strength. Venus is along with Sun who has 
the ownership right. Thus the 4th house has become very 
strong. But the Native did not even come upto SSLC level in 
education. Astrology tells, that the 4th house indicates education 
and the 9th house indicates higher education, Houses 4 and 9- 
the house of education being strong not only strong. but also 
planets like Moon, Mars, Rahu are in the stars of 4 and 9. 


425 


Further «tunnag the aye of education, the Native inspite of having 
sun. Moon, Mars and Rahu dasa, did not have any education. 
What is the reason? The reason is the lagna bhava and the 
lagna lord was deposited in the stars ot lord of the 3rd which is 
detrimental for education. Further lagna lord is stationed in the 
6th. Lagna bhava in the star of Mars and Mars in the star of 
Venus the badnakasthanathipatht Summing up, the one and 
the only reason, that the Native did not have any education is, 
because the lagna lord and lagna bhava lost its strength. The 
Ath bhava inspite of being strong, followed by very favourable 
dasa could not gtve any education- 1s made very clear. 


Not only this, Jupiter, the lord of 2nd, 1s in his own star, 
Jupiter- the chief significater cf Dhana is in his own star with all 
this the Native did not enjoy a comfortable life financially and 
materially. Similar to the Ration card example, the Native could 
get only 2 kgs of rice instead of 10 kgs. All the other 11 bhavas 
weak or strong stands leipiess. as the very lagna bhava and 
lagna lord is weak and totally powerless. For this reason, the 
Native had no status in lite. To tell in a nutshell, the Native did 
not have a rise or push in any one walk of his life. 


The same lagna lord had it not been stationed in the 8th, but 
stationed in the 4th in the star Mrigasira of Mars, signifying 3-10 
or in the star of Jupiter or in the star of Sun in Simha, the Native 
would have come out as a Graduate. And the other 11 bhavas 
also would have helped the Native to have a rise. At the onset of 
Jupiter dasa around tne age of 50, the Native had a small 
increase in betterment. Jupiter in his own star ought to have 
made the Native rich but because of the weak lagna bhava and 
lagna lord, Jupiter stood helpless. Similar to the Ration card 
example, destiny through all other bhavas, had reduced every 


326 


item of his life, because of weak lagna bhava and lagna lord. 
Under such a circumstance, what Jupiter can do, insprte of he 
being strong. Jupiter cannot offer anything, even substantially. 


To repeat again- when a lagna lord and the lagna bhava 
when stands weak, the other bhavas and planets however 
strong they may be, what favourable results expected of therm is 
not offered and to the contrary offer only meagre results. 


When we say the lagna bhava and lagna lord is weak, in it 
these are different types- like- very badly spoiled, ordinary, 
middle level, high level- each of its strength again weak or 
strong. 


A strong tevel : 

Lagna lord having no connection at all to the 8th, but connected 
to houses 1,2,3,10,9 and except for Chara borns, connected to 
41th also, with Jupiter aspect- that lagna is a strong one. Along 
with 2-3-10-9, the 6th house also connected, but not the 1st, 
such a lagna level is the strongest. Such a Native will amass 
wealth in crores. Atthe same time the lagna sub lord, deposited 
in a star, that star lord should not be connected houses 8 and 5. 
In away, separately the Sth connection can be there; but, at one 
and the same time 5-8 connection should not be there. That is 
lagna bhava connected to 5-3 at one and the same time, that 
lagna will not be a strong one. 


When lagna lord is strong and lagna bhava weak, such a 
lagna level is strong of a middle level. 


When lagna lord is Weak, and the lagna bhava Is also weak, 
such a lagna level Native's likelihood will be through begging. 


327 


Therefore, lagna bhava and lagna lord being strong- that 
lagna level is a very strong one of a very high level. 


When one Is strong and the other one is weak (lagna lord- 
lagna bhava}- that lagna level is of a middle level. 


If both lagna lord and lagna bhava are weak then that lagna 
level is of a very low level. 


The Chara rasi lagna- lagna lord and lagna bhava when 
connected to houses 1,2,3,16,5,9, it is a strong level. Hence, 8th 
house connection should not be there. Needless to say the T1th 
- house badhakasthana connection should also not be there. 


For Sthira rasi lagna- lagna lord and lagna bhava when 
connected to houses 1,2,3,10,11,6 it is a strong level Sth house 
badhakasthana connection should not be there. 


For Ubhaya rasi lagna- lagna lord and lagna bhava when 
connected to 6-2-3-10-11-9, itis a strong level. The 7th to be 
decided according te the matter that is being analysed as 7th is 
the badhakasthana. 


Other than all explained above, the rest are weak levels. In 
that again, we have middle level, ordinary level, very low level 
and so on. These weak levels depends on how lagna lord 
emerges. 


All hurnan beings, having a strong lagna or having a weak 
lagna, even/ individual will have a routine levels of results. 


J268 


But, 
Natives hav.ing a strong lagna level will have a good wife, status, 
good health, popularity, prestige, prosperous and a happy life. 


And, 
Natives having a weak lagna level, will have a low level 
education, non-cooperative wife, problematic children, no status 
in the society, no reward for a hard work and so on. They will 
not be able to reach a higher status in lite. 


Theretcre persons born in any lagna or rasi, when one has 
a strong lagna bhava and lagna lord they enjoy a happy and 
prosperous life. Ifone has a weak lagna bhava and lagna lord, 
even when other 11 bhavas are strong and the planets also are 
strong to offer favourable results, one cannot have a happy, 
glorious and prosperous life. | have been repeating these lines 
only to make the readers understand very clearly. 


For the reasons explained above, f am repeating again and 
again. When one analyses several lagna borns as explained In 
the above pages, the real impact can be understood. Therefore, 
when we venture to predict, tt is cur prime duty to verify the 
lagna bhava and the lagna lord. Accordtngly- 


1. Ghara rasi lagna boms, having a strong lagna bhava and 
lagna bhava and lagna lord, connected to houses 1-2-3-10-9-6, 
their prosperity in life will be of a high level. But 8th house 
connection should not be there in any manner. 


2. Sthira rasi lagna borns, having a strong lagna bhava and 
lagna lord, connected to houses 1-2-3-10-11-6, their prosperity 


329 


in life will be of a high level. Here too, 5-812 houses connection 
should not be there in any manner. 


3. Ubhaya lagna berns, having a strong lagna bhava and 
lagna lord, connected to houses 2-3-6-11-5-9, their prosperity in 
fife will be of high level. Here, the 7th house connection should 
not be there in any manner. 


All explained above speaks the How and What of a strong 
or weak lagna bhava and lagna lord. 


PROFESSION - Part! 


We have 9 planets, 27 stars and the 12 signs- all in one 
word, under the zodiac all births take place, and for all of them 
professions @e also there in varying degrees. One type of 
profession stipulated for a particular lagna may take place or 
may change without a similarity or resmeblence to the set 
professions for that Lagna Native. All these vast changes are 
due to the signsfhouses rising at birth, planetary positions- 
having aspect or conjunctions, and certain deep matters 
contained, when Rahu/Kethu connections happen to the 10th 
house. This change is not for the profession alone but for all 
other matters like family, children, wife, life span, name and 
fame, politics, richness, poverty, research studies, marriage, 
more than one wife, no marriage, twins, to be a monk and so on. 


That Is- 
1. Of the 12 signs - each sign having 30°, at birth where the 
CUSD falls. 
2. Ghanges that are fo happen on account of planets that are 
deposited in stars. 


330 


3. Ghanges that happen due to conjunction or aspect of 
planets. ; 
4. Rahu/Kethu - their several natures - on account planet 
aspecting or planets conjoined or planets deposited in 


Rahu/Kethu stars and so o*% 


The above 4 factors make, remake, create, change alter 
and what not- a change in tune or out of tune to the Natives 
destined at the very birih. 


Keeping in mind all the above points and when predictions 
made, they will be 100% correct. 


To sum up the whole thing- what ever may be the lagna- for 
all matters to matenalise- the final signal has to come from the 
SUPREMO the Sublord- arising out of every cusp to begin with 
from Lagna. 


For any given lagna, the 10th house is the house of 
Profession- that is occupation for livelihood. If we study the 
characteristics of this 710th house, relevant to profession then, 
only a selected few occupations are mentioned. In that case is it 
possible for any lagna bom to have his or her profession with in 
that limited scope that 10th house sign has to offer? We find 
millions of birth having an occupation which is not said from the 
10th house. Theretore, if we strictly refer to the professions, that 
we know from the 10th which are only few, the other type of 
professions other than what is said for the 10th should not 
come. But in our day to day life we find a particular lagna born 
having Profession not at all contemplated to fit in the 10th. Still 
funny will be to see, the occupation of the Native is, as expained 
fo the 10th of some other lagna. What | have said is not only for 


341 


profession but for several other aspects of life. To sum up, it will 
be, for example, a Mesha born having several activities of his 
lie connected or not connected, exact or changed, or to look 
like as if the Mesha- 10th is of some other lagna-10th. All these 
seemingly confusions are due to the planets stellar positions, at 
the time of birth. For example, Makara the 10th house for Mesha 
is the house of Saturn. In this 10th house, some cther planets 
may be stationed or not stationed. As such the profession will be 
all related to Saturn or all related to the planet occupying 
Makara, the 10th house. In case No planet has occupied 
Makara, Saturn himself has to reflect in full of his own house- 
the 10th house- which signifies professions like oil, lron, slavery, 
research, monks, waste or second hand materials and so on. 
Here, some of the Mesha borns will have professions which are 
not at all said for Saturn. The Native may be a Newspaper man, 
finance, police officers and so on. As explained above, this type 
of other level professions not connected to Saturn is due to the 
other Planets connected to 10th, which changes or modifies or 
alters the profession. The 16th by itself on account of 
ownership, Saturn, will give a profession that are under its 
command. 


Therefore, it is here the utmost attention of an astrologer is 
required to tell clearly the profession of a Native. What is said is 
not only tor 10th level matters alone but for all other house level 
matters. 


For example, certain signs of the zodiac forming the lagna, 
having the 7th house as dual nature (sign), in a natural way 
olfers two wives. This is a general view- a level for Dhanur lagna 
and Kanya lagna born, for the reason the 7th houses are 
Mithuna and Meena respectively which are dual signs. Even,’ 


jae 


one born in Dhanur and Kanya do not have two wives. But few 
persons born in Lagnas other than Dhanur and Kanya, do have 
two wives. All these observations, we find in our daily life. This is 
because the other planets connection, by conjoining, aspect, 
occupy makes the big change. Such a change will be there for 
every lagna and for all matters. 


PROFESSION - "WHICH PROFESSION 
IS A SUITABLE PROFESSION" -| 


Every persen according to him runs a suitable profession, 
and at a given time his fame and prosperity may go down for 
reasons beyond his control. There is no doubt on this. 


When # person undertakes a profession not suited to him, 
he runs into loss and gets weakened. Whether a person 
underlakes a profession suited to him or not suited to him, the. 
net results are offered only by the planets. If that is so, 
everyone will undertake a profession only according to his 
destiny. So much so, what change can be there? We have 
explained clearly as below - 


According to the set up of one's birth chart, the 9 (nine) 
planets instead being beneficial or non-beneticial - some planets 
will be offering good results and some will be giving adverse 
results. This happens according to the frame of each one's birth 
chart. Beneficial planets give good results in their total outlook 
in profession and adverse results in their total outlook in their 
profession. 


333 


Qne person starts a profession and gets greater profit. 


Another person starls a profession and lands in a colossal loss. 
Why is it? 


Every one according to the frame of his birth chart will have 
beneficial or adverse results according to Dasa/Dukthi, while 
Starling a profession or during the profession. 


In this if a person had selected a profession suited to him, 
even though adverse Dasa/bukthi is running, these adverse 
results will affect some other matters and it will not spread in the 
area of profession, for the reason he has selected the right 
profession suited to him in accordance with his birth chart. 


Planets related to his profession, and when they are set in 
tune with his destiny will always protect him. Similarly when the 
planetary set up related to his profession are not set in tune with 
destiny, much benetits can be experienced in other several 
matters but not in the field of profession, inspite of a favourable 
Dasa/bukthi. To explain this an example charl is given below - 


MEA 3.37 Yen 6 45 Jup 1.45 
24.44} Sunt450 | yoogg | Vi18.43 


IV 25.21 Ke 25.23 


| 20.47 28-4-1954, Wednesday 
Moon 18.16 1.02 AM (Night) 


Vil 16.52 


K. Ayanamsa 23-07 
Lat11° Lon 77° 


Aahu balance 2-4-2 Vill 20.47 


Aa 25.23 
Xil 16.43 
Mars 11.59 


As on 20-6-83 age - Saturn Dasa Sun bukthi balance 0-1-13 


A 25.21 
Sat 12.46 


a34 


Planet Stariord Sublord 


oun Ven Ven 
Moon Ra Moon 
Mars Ke MER 
MER Ke sun 
Jup Mars MER 
Ven oun MER 
Sat Ra MER 
Ha Ven MER 
Ke Jup MER 


Sun 3,4,5,8,10. 


Mcon = 1,12,7. 
Mars 11,6,4. 
MER 69.3. 


Jup 5,4,11,12,3. 
Ven 4,5,10,8,3. 
Sat 9,12,3,1,2. 
Rahu = 12,3,4,5,16. 
Kethu 6,9,3,12,5. 


28-4-1954, Wednesday 
1.02 AM (Night) 


K. Ayanamsa 23-07 
Lat 11° Lan 77° 
ARahu balance 2-4-2 


339 


Graha Pada Sara 


sun Bharani 1 
Moon sathabisha 4 
Mars Moolam 4 

MER Aswini 2 

Jup Mrigasira 3 
Ven Krithika 4 

Sat Swathi 2 

Ra Poorvashada 4 
Ke Punarvasu 2 


The Native of the above chart is a graduate and also a little 
well off financially, 


Around the time of completing his graduation and while 
thinking what next to do, he received an order to a Govt.related 
job. 

A 


As a little well off financially, hesitating to go for a job, he 
thought cf commencing a private business. He then consulted a 
leading astrologer with his birth chart and explained to him his 
position, thereby revealing his (mental) indication towards an 
independent business. This consultation and analysis of his 
birth chart was made during 1980. 


Then in 20.6.1983 he consulted me. Prior to consulting me 
what the leading astrologer said - Sir, you are a Makara Lagna 
person. Saturn in 10this exalted. Jupiter aspects 10th Satum 
Venus in Sth in his own house. Therefore he recommended a 
profession connected to Iron: Vehicle and also quoted a poem 


Jd6 


tallying his recommended profession - that has to yield good 
protits. The poem reads - 


"Weighty 9-6-11-3 
sun's son (saturn) in 10th 
Destiny is well of 
Dhana is assured by a good natured profession. 
Good person (Saturn) the ruler-professicn through vehicles 
So much so do not talk like a dead body 
My poem be praised on this earth" 


As the poem reads the astrologer encouraged the Native 
with a tall picture and sent him off. 


The Native needless to say was happy over the 
consultations made. He purchased a Town Bus Service at 
second hand rate for a little less than a Lakh. Time passed as 
days-months. The Town Bus Service starled running on 
weakness. Then T B Sstarted its run on Losses. Atlast the 
TBS was ready tor sale on "As is where basis" 


Note : TBS - Town Bus Service. 


Now he again met the leading astrologer. The Birth chart 
was Verified, and he said the present loss is due to according to 
your Son's charl who is now running 7 1/2 Saturn. When half 
the 7 1/2 Satum period is over profits are sure. To cross the 
half of the 7 1 Saturn time 2 years has to elapse. He does not 
have now sufficient money to pay -the Tax. He had to ask his 
parents. At last, at a lesser rate he sold the TBS. A few months 
roled by. He was keeping idle. During these circumstances he 
approached me and explained everything. 


oof 


What is the reason for such a failure. He did not undertake 
a profession suited to him in accordance with planetary position, 
tuned to his destiny. 


The above said matters are explained clearly as below. 
Headers are requested to read with patience and then decide 
which profession is suited to you and be benefited. 


There was no fault in the poem or astrologer. The inner 
meaning of the said poem, the analysis and the application was 
not properly made. Hence such a great harm took place. 


10th Cusp - Thula - 25.21 - Rasi Lord Ven- Star Lord Jup 
and Sub lord is MERCURY. 
MERCURY is posited in the constellation of Kethu 
Planetary positions & Signiticators - Please refer Chart. 


According to KP one's profession is indicated by the Star 
Lord in whose constellation the 10th Sub lord is deposited, if it is 
connected to 6th House, profession is by Service, and if 
connected to 7th House independent business. Atter 
ascerlaining whether Service or business, according to the 
planet significations the nature and line of profession is 
indicated. 


In this chart, 10th Sublord MERCURY is deposited in the 
constellation of Kethu, Kethu is connected tc 6th House and 
there by a clear indication is given that this Native cannot 
Uunderlake independent business during his life time. At this 
planetary set up was well in order long back he received the 
order to join the Govt. service. As he did not undertake the 
profession suited to him and at that time the Dasa/buk running 


338 


were also adverse, resulted in heavy loss through profession. 
Had he undertaken the profession suited to him the adverse 
Dasa/bukthi at that time would have given the loss in some 
other aspects but not in the area of profession. The planetary 
set up which gave him the profession suited to him, will also 
protect him, all along the adverse periods. 


Each and every one amongst many of us, as we do not 
undertake the profession suited to Us, many professions in the 
world ends in a grinding halt. This is the reason, and due to this 
reason certain unexpected or contrary to natural, developments 
takes place. When a person undertakes a profession not suited 
to him not only undesirable developments in profession takes 
place but it affects other matlers also by the same planetary set 
up. That is these planetary set up, to cause adverse results 
during their Dasa/bukthi affects both in the area of profession 
and in the area of other matters. That is these adverse 
Dasa/bukthi which is to cause adverse results in other matter 
area - are unable to enter into that area and theretore yields an 
unexpected or unforeseen or undesirable or unnatural adverse 
results. 


if | were to explain this point this article will run to more 
pages Therefore a small example. 


Our elders, while matching the horoscopes in the event of 
marriage - they look to Rajju match. || Raju matches there is no 
harm to the couples. If Raju does not match it may cause death 
fo one amonast the Husband or Wife. The elders are well 
aware that death ts a matter already a decided one. Knowing 
this fully .->!, still they have informed of this match by Rajju. 
Why? Fo vvnat’? 


[fthat which is suited to - is set - then even in the adverse 
Dasa/bukthi, adverse effects cannct enter in the field of Wedlock 
area - but adverse results will materialise in other matters 
between the Husband/Wife relations - ie other than death. 
Keeping this in mind our elders have done beautifully well to set 
the matching of horoscopes in terms of Rajju. The same, above 
Said meaning is conveyed to in respect of profession. 


The Native of this charl, consulted the leading astrologer 
prior to his starting of the Town Bus Service. That astrologer 
quoted a poem from the ancient scripts. But was the birth chart 
had any relevance to the poem. It is the failure of the Astrologer 
to verify the chart correctly correlating to the poem, landed the 
Native to a heavy loss. 


What the poem says - Saturn is in 10th 

The poem is Correct - ts Saturn in 10th? Had Saturn been in 
the 10th, then the poem is also correct. 10th Cusp falls in 
Thuta- 25°.21'. Saturn in the same sign is in 12°.46°. That is in 
the 9th House limits - and Saturn has no connection in any 
manner to the 10th House. Had that Astrologer known this fact 
the entire matter ie loss to the Native could have been averted 
and lead to a successful path. 


These several stages in a Bhava chart was analysed in 
depth "and still deeper by the great intellectual Jyothish 
Marthand late Prof KSK whether it is Satum or any other planet, 
how they should be connected to 10th House was tound by 
KSK 


As such (in the chart) Saturn in 9th House, signifying 
3,12,9,1,2 Houses, and Venus at that- time who run the 


440 


Dasa/bukthi signified 4,5,8 Houses. Therefore during these 
periods as the Native had the profession not suited to him, the 
adverse Dasa/bukthi at the time had their upper hand to cause 
the very harmful results in the profession itsell. 


There is not even a small error either in Astrology or in the 
poem of the elders. Therefore the Readers have now clearly 
understood, that it is the failure of proper analysis, that leads to 
great blunders. 


Next, which profession is suited to one, to be explained 17 
full - will get very lengthy, hence, a selected few are explained, 


lf every one of you desire to know the profession suited to 
him/her. please have your birlh chart or Horary charl (No 1 tc 
249) analysed by any experienced KP Astrologer. 


1) First we should know whether the profession sutted to 
one is by Service or independent business. !t it is independent 
business the nature of business. 


2) Then we have to look to the 10th Sub lord. The nature os! 
profession is to be judged from the Star lord in whose 
constellation this 10th Sub lord is deposited. 


3) Whatever may be the Lagna - f# the 16th Sub td is Sun 
and signifying 2,6,10,11, the Native will have independent 
business inherited from his tather connected to brass. gold ri 
and his profession will be set towards business line 


341 


4) {fthe 10th Sub lord Moon and connected to 2,6,10,11 
and if itis Service it will be shipping, Dam, Reservoirs, Petrol, 
Kerosene, Brandy/Wine shop etc. 


It it (70th Sub lord) indicates independent business he will 
deal in Orange, Ice cream, Milk, Butter, Eversilver, Soda, Mess, 
Petrol Bunk ete. 


Any House connected to 6th House, the profession is to be 
judged as SERVICE. 


li connected to 7th House profession should be judged as 
Independent Business. 


If both 6th and 7th Houses are connected the Native should 
set his profession according to the Dasa/bukthi in accordance 
with planet significators. 


5) Similarly if the 710th Sub lord is Mars and if connected to 
6th House One's profession will be by Service in Police, Military, 
Steam Engine, Boilers, Fire, Arrack distillation ete. 


lf connected to 7th House the profession of the Native will 
be Dectors, Medical shop, Agriculture, Barber shop, Mutton 
stall, Industrial rubber, Tyre, Retreading, Cooking, Stove 
making, Dealer in Coral gem etc. 


6) Ifthe 10th Sub lord is MERCURY and connected to 6th 
House - a profession by Service he will serve in a Radio shop, 
Cinema, Paper Mart, Teacher, Tax Collector, Tax Offficer.. 
Hevenue Dept, Press reporter, Ambassador. If it indicates 


342 


independent business i.e 7th House connection is there - the 
Native should set his profession - as Astrologez, Designing, 
Press, News paper Agency, Printing Paper Mart, Photography, 
atationery Mart, Pen making etc. 


7) \f the 10th Sub lord is Jupiter and connected to 6th 
House; a profession by Service, he will serve as Professor, 
Lecturer, Higher Education, Service in Bank, Cashier, Executive 
Officer in Temples etc. 


lf connected to 7th House, profession by Independent 
business in Paddy, Rice, Sugar, Pawn broker, Confectionery, 
Directors, Share brokers, Share holders, Chit Funds, 
Gommission agency, Tenders, Enterprises etc. 


8) ifthe 10th Sub lord in Venus and connected to 6th House 
a profession by Service he will serve Transport, Cloths, job in 
Mills, Ginema Theatre. 


If connected to 7th House profession by Independent 
business Actor, Music,. Hotels, Boarding & Lodging, Plastic 
materials, Jewellery shop, Textiles, Tailoring Machine making, 
Fancy gcods, Sale ot all materials related to ladies, Handicraft, 
Decorative materials, Mica etc. 


9} if the 1Gth Sub lord is Saturn and connected to 6th 
House, a profession by Service he will serve in factories where 
lron is mainly used, Forest, Repair of Vehicles, Mosaic stones, 
Stone crushing, Roads, Cement factories etc. If connected to 
7th House profession by Independent business he will deal in 
Waste Cotton Mill, Thick Cotton ropes, making of Black coloured 
materials, any material which is of sub-standard quality- Gement 


443 


factory, Coal, Low grade oils, Stone slabs, Lavatory materials 
etc. 


10} If the 1Gth Sub lord Rahu or Kethu, it should be 
ascertained from which planets they are conjoined to or in which 
of the 12 Houses they occupy and that owner of the House 
should be taken into consideration while judging the Native's 
profession by Service or Independent business. 


Toe conclude what we understand from this is that anyone 
who sets his profession, Service or Independent business as 
indicated in his birlh charl or Horary charl by planetary set ups 
In tune with his destiny, any adverse Dasa/bukthi, or even 
favourable Dasa/foukthi his profession will never be weakened at 
any length of time. This I say with cerlain. 


71/2 Saturn, Ashtama Sani, Panchama Sani Ghanda Sani 
or passing through adverse Dasa/bukthi - Whatever may be the 
effects of Saturn - they will do harm only in the sphere of other 
matters, of those who have undertaken the correct profession 
suited to him and these adverse eflects will never approach 
even very near to the profession area. 


When the Native undertakes the ill-suited profession, even 
though the Native does not pass through 71/2 Saturn, or inspite 
of a Raja Yoga Dasa/bukthi periods, during one adverse bukthi 
period in that favourable Dasa, having net selected the 
profession suited to the Native, this bukthi lord who is not under 
the control of the 10th Sub lord, and the planets connected to 
10th Sub lord cannot come forward te protect the Native - net 
only this - an unfavourable Anthara Natha also joins the 

344 


unfavourable Bukthi Natha and can do very much harm. This | 
wish to emphasise for the Readers to understand very clearly. 


These who undertake a profession by Service or 
Independent business if their Native chart or Horary chart is 
subjected to analysis as said above, and then commence a 
profession, | say with full confidence, their future will be a 
glorious and prosperous one. 


PROFESSION - Part Il 


How to probe which Profession is suited to a Native. 


Of the 12 signs from Mesha to Meena according to birth 
time, one sign will rise as lagna. Counted from lagna, the 10th 
sign (house-Bhava) is the house of Profession. i.6. Occupation. 
Le. either service or business. 


The intellectual giant, late Sri KSK, has taught us to prepare 
the Nirayana Bhava chakra as per the Placidus System. 
Accordingly. the 10th bhava will fall in a Deg-Min-See which will 
be read as a Sign-Star-Sub. The said sub is one ot the 9 
divisions of that star. Sri KSK has already explained to us very 
beautifully, how to judge the profession of a Native. The star and 
sub plus the sign- that is the Sign lord + Star lord + Sub lord will 
precisely tell the profession of a Native. 


As such- 
some of the births have a high profile profession and some 
have a low profile profession, varying from a peon to an IAS 
cadre or from a big industrialist to a road side box type- shop 
owners. Some of the Natives will be doing the same job till their 


345 


end, and seme other Natives will be doing one kind of 
profession for a cerlain period and then change for a different 
type of profession. Some Natives, in their profession improve, 
advance in several ways and proper day by day. Some Natives, 
in their profession go down very badly like a river of no return. 


Human births, has Male and Female. Many of the Female 
birth are confined to the Kitchen as house wife. Few of the 
female births in these modem days are employed in the 
Government or Private firms, or self-employed entrepreneurs or 
coming up as Chief Minister/Prime Minister and so on. 


Therefore be ita Male or Female birth - the 10th house Is 
there without fail. According to birth time of a lagna and counted 
from lagna - the 10th house is the house of Profession. This 
10th house falls in a Deg-Min-Sec to be read as a 
aign-star-Sub, which makes, remakes, or no change or see 
change inthe professions of countless of Natives. 

Every human birth according to a birth time has a lagna. 
Counted from lagna, the 10th house is the house of Profession 
which tells what is in store in that 10th house. An example 
chari- 


Jup - P.Palguni ard 


Yen - Jjyeshta 4th 


ints example chart. 10th house in Kumbha falls in 21°10". 
That 1s Saturn sign - Jupiter star and in Jupiter sub. Therefore 
the set up of 10th house is Sat-Jup-Jup. From this, first we 
should study what Saturn-the sign lord has to say- then what- 
Jupiter * the Star lord has to say and then what Jupitter- the 
sublord has to tell, about the profession of this Rishaba Native. 
The combined voice of the sign-star-sublord, said in one voice 
about profession, has to be decisively fixed while fixing the 
profession: 


1 We have to decide which profession is suited to a Native. 


2 Secondly. after deciding a profession- we have to study 
whether the profession so selected will give protits. 


3. Third. our analysis should be to find out whether this 
profession wilt be on a permanent footing. that is long lasting. 


When we analyse on the above said lines, we will be 
coming across a volley of occupations indicated. Naturally, it is 
here. the attention of the astrologer is of utmost imporlance. 
Why? Because the planets are only 9, the signs are only 12 and 
the stars are 27 only. But the profession/occupation are 
manifald. being interlinked in one way or the other, in these 
modern days. 


The 10th house will tell only the profession suited to the 
Native Beyond this it will not tell anything mere. That is, this 
1oth house will not be in a position to tell whether one will get 
profit or loss for the simple reason, this 10th house is a 
Vryasthana to the 11th house. Therefore the 10th house will 
never tell a single word about profit or loss. The 10th house 


qA7 


reveals that on what basis, such and such occupations are 
Indicated. 


The 10th house, similar to all other houses contains 30°. In 
this example charl, the 10th house found in Kumbha falls in 
21°10’. From this we have to study, whether the Native will take 
up to independent business or will go for a paid job (i.e service} 
or in a job for sometime and having an independent business for 
sometime or both simultaneously. 


How to judge this’? 
1. 10th sublord if connected to 6-8, the Native is destined to go 
only for a paid job (service) 


2. 10th sublord if connected to 6,8 and also connected to 
7-10, the Native is destined to be in service for some time and to 
have independent business for some time, or the other way 
round, according to the running dasa/bukthi. During the 
dasa/bukthi of lords of 6-8, the Native will be in a paid job. 
During the dasa/bukthi cf lords of 7-10 the Native will be 
handling an independent business. 


3. 10th sublord signifying houses 7-10-11 and not at all 
connected to 6-8, then the Native will do independent business 
only, till the end of his life. 


What is meant by the 10th sub- signifying houses 6-8 or 
7-10-11? 


The 10th sub- the lord of which will be deposited in a star. 
This star lord in turn because of its star deposit indicates, that is 
signifies houses 6-8 or houses 7-10-11. 


348 


In this example chart, 10th sublord is Jupiter. How this 
sublord Jupiter signifies houses 6-8 or houses 7-10-11 is to be 
explained. This 10th sublord Jupiter when deposited in a slar- 
that star lord in turn by its star deposit indicates/signifies houses 
6-8 or house *-10-11. This is exactly what is called the 10th sub 
signification. 


Again- in this example chart, the 10th sublord Jupiter is 
stationed in Simha rasi - in the star of Venus - P Palguni 
thereby Jupiter signifies the 6th house. Venus 1s stationed in the 
7th house. Venus is deposited in the star of Jyeshta (4th pada} - 
that is the star lord is MERCURY. 


As such 1Cth sublord Jupiter is posited in the star of Venus. 
Now take up this Venus. Venus is deposited in the star of 
Mercury who is lord of 2 and 5, that is indicating/signifying/ 
connecting houses 2 and 5, but Venus is stationed in the 7th 
house. Therefore, the Native for ever wil be handling an 
independent business of his own. and will never go for a paid 
job. Here, because 10th sublord Jupiter is deposited in the 
star of Venus and to say the signification is of the 6th 
house is not correct and will not be correct. 


Jupiter in the star of Venus, this Venus if deposited in 
his own star as owner of the 6th of Rishaba lagna or this 
Venus If it occupies the 6th, then only it will be known as 
6th house signification or connection. This is what is known 
as 10th sub signification. 


Already we are aware that Venus is lord of 6, but being in 
the star of Mercury, Venus signifies houses 2 and 5; therefore 
this 6th house will not be useful or operational. 


349 


Likewise all the cuspal subs are to be understood. 


Therefore, through 1Gth sublord signification, we must 
determine, whether the Native will go for a paid job or take up to 
independent business, as explained inthe above paras. 


Next our analysis is to find out which profession is suited to 
the Native. 


In the example chart, 10th house is in Kumbha, rising in 
21°10’. That is Saturn sign, Jupiter star. The sublard is also 
Jupiter. How Jupiter acts to signify the houses was already 
explained. 


Now our analysis is to know the profession suited to the 
Native. We have already understood that the 10th cusp 
signification is clearly not for a paid job, by the 10th cusp 
sublord- Jupiter in the star of Venus and Venus in the star of 
Mercury. It is Venus, that has said NO for a paid job and an YES 
for independent business. Therefore for the independent 
profession - which profession is suited to the Native is to be 
studied. 


saturn is lord of Kumbha- the 10th house. The 10th cusp 
falls in P.badhra star- whose lord is Jupiter. Now, we must blend 
the Karakathwa or the Natural in built characteristics of Saturn 
and Jupiter. Then, this Saturn and Jupiter are owners of which 
houses are to be studied. Then, according to the blend of the 
planets, relevant to the ownership of the houses, the profession 
suited has to be arrived at very clearly. 


350 


Inthis chart, we know Saturn is lord of 9 and 10, and Jupiter 
is lord of 8 and 11. Now mix the Karakathwa-of Saturn and 
Jupiter - that is provision store, Rice shop, sale of sugar, money 
lending, to independently run a tutorial school and then 
determine the profess" 


Ifthe 10th cusp sub Jupiter, signifies a paid job, the type of 
job may be a teacher, principal, a higher post in municipal 
corporations, executive officers, and so on. 


Therefore, if our analysis to determine a profession exactly 
and accurately, suited to the Native- then, 


1. According to birth time- find out the correct 10th cusp- tts 
deg-min-sec read as sign-star-sub. This reading will be whether 
it be a Birth chart or a Horary chart. 


2. Then, as the 10th cusp rising in deg-min-sec read as 
Sign-star-sub, know the sign lord and the star lord. 


3. Next, know and understand the sublord. 


4. Next, find out in which STAR this 10th cusp sublord !s 
depasited. 


5. Next, this star lord in whose constellation this 10th cusp 
sublord is deposited - is a significator of which of the houses Is 
to be sorted out. 


6. Then, that profession signifying, star lord if it signifies 
houses 6-8, the Native's profession is a paid job; if its 
signification is to 7-10-11 houses, then independent business 


331 


This should be clearly sorted out- that is the nature of a 
profession for a Native. 


f. lf the 70th cusp sub signification is a mixture of 6,8 and f- 
10-11, then according tc Dasa/bukthi, for a certain period the 
Native will be tn a paid job, and for a certain period the Native 
Will be doing an independent business. Then ascertain what the 
dasa lord and bukttil lord signify; that is the signification is for 
6-8 or 7-10-11. Accordingly, one must predict, from which period to 
which period the Native will be in a paid job or tndependent 
business. 


lfthe 10th cusp sublord signification is not there for hauses 6 
or 40 or 7, then the Native in his life time cannot have an 
occupation or set a livelihood for himself: instead he will be 
roaming about and waste his life time. 


§. Thus after ascertaining the correct level of the 10th cusp 
sublord signification- we must next find out which profession is 
suited to the Native. 


According to one's birth time, where the 10th cusp 
commences, therefrom the lord of the 10th cusp- Bhava. 


The 10th cusp rising in a deg-min-sec read as sign-star-sub 
take that star lord and blend the characteristics of the sign lord 
and star lord. 


To repeat again- in this example chart, 10th cusp rises is 
Kurnbha in 21°10". Therefore we understand sign lord is Saturn 
and the star lord ts Jupiter, whose characteristics in a combined 


352 


manner are to be sorted out to select the profession suited to 
the Native. 


Gin the basis explained above- the different levels of 
profession is explained from Mesha to Meena. 


When 10th cusp rises in Mesha in Kethu star- Note down in 
which sub it rises. From this sublord - that is by 10th cusp sub 
signification as explained in the above paras- we must 
determine whether the Native is destined tor a paid job or for 
independent business. Then, if Itis a paid Job- 


1. Working in a factory. 2. Police, Military. 
3. Medical department- Doctor A, Job in Railways. 
(Government) 


5. Postal service and so on. 


Ifitis an independent business- 

1. A doctor (Private} 2. Trading in Iron and steel. 
3. Medical shop. 4. Courier service. 

5. Timber depot wherein bamboo, tiles etc are sold. 


The above said are the professions suited to the Native, 
whose 10th cusp falls in Mesha and in Kethu star. 


To repeat again, know the Karakathwa of 10th bhava lord 
and then the Karakathwa of the star lord, that is in which star the 
10th cusp/bhava rises. Then the blend of the 2 planets - that is 
sign lord and star lord tells the profession of the Native, 
according to their typical characteristics. 


35a 


To repeat again- in this example chart- the 10th cusp sign 
lord is Saturn. Every astrologer knows the Karakathwa of Satum 
by their knowledge in Astrology. Likewise every astrologer 
knows the Karakathwa of all the 9 planets fairly well. For 
example, if it is Saturn- it means all connected to Iron, 
underground materials, old ones, ails, second hand materials 
and so on. If it is Jupiter- tt means all connected to money 
matters, finance, teaching, religion and so on. 


lf it is Mereury- it means education, astrology, 
communication, printing press and so on. 


ifitis Mars- it means Police, military, railways and so on. 


Here, what we should realise is, that every planet according 
to its characteristics, will tell about a hundred type of profession. 
Theretore, the astrologer by his experience and intelligence 
should know the Karakathwa of the lord of 10th cusp and in it 
the lord of the star, where the 10th cusp rises- blend the 
Karakathwa of sign and star lord and arrive at the correct 
profession suited to the Native. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Mesha and in Bharani star, and 


ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- is a paid job- then, 


A) 1. The Native is a worker, employed, where musical 
instruments like veena, flute, violin, saxaphone are made. 


2. Worker in a textile mill. ' 3. Worker with a building 
contractor. 

A, Salesman in atextile shop. 5. Bus driver, rail engine driver 

and soon. 


a54 


Likewise, there are several other professions, according to 
the Karakathwa of Mars and Venus which are to be studied to 
select the profession suited to the Native, which will also prove 
correct, 


B) If it is an independent business - then 

+. To run an industry. 2. To run a Cinema theatre. 
dg. To run hotels. A. Sale of eversilver utensils. 
5. To be a veterinary doctor (private doctor) 

6 Dealing in milk. 7. Sale ot furniture and soon. 


As sald above, there are still several professions The 
astrologer has to intelligently select the correct profession based 
on the Karakathwa ot the planet. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Mesha and in Krithika star and 
itthe 15th cusp sub siqnmihicalion 


A) If itis a paid job- then 

1 Police, military. 2. Worker in a chemicals factrry 
3 Worker In a fireworks, match box industry and any other 

factory which has the element fire and is also sublect to 

explosion due to heat and so on. 


By tf it is an independent business - then 

1 To run a saw mill (to cut timber) 

2 Torun an Ammunition factory to prepare guns rifles @tn or 
even explosives. 

3. To prepare all lron materials used in Burlding construction 
4. To have an electrical goods shep and everythin comected 
to electricity materials 


When the 10th cusp rises in Rishaba and in Krithika star, 
and if the 10th cusp sub signitication- 


A) Ifit is for an independent business- then, 

1. To have a Jewellary shop. 2. To run a ready made 
garment shop. 

3. To conduct cultural and fine 4, Photography. 

atts programmes. 

5. Medical shop which deals with Homeopathy or Allopathy, 

Ayurvedic, Unani, Siddha and so on- that is one amongst the 

several types. 


B) If itis a paid job the Native will be employed in any one of 
the above said concerns. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Rishaba and in Rohini star and 
ifthe 10th cusp sub- signification- 


A) lf itis an independent business- then 


1. To run a hotel or bakery. 2. Boarding and Lodging. 

3. Selling of yarn. 4. Cloth shop. 

9. Transport. 6. Icecream parlour, soda, 
cool drinks. 


/. Manufacture of oils like 
coconut oil and so on. 8. To run a Paint shop. 


Likewise still there are many professions all of which cannot 
be sald at atime. 


B) If it is a paid job, the Native will be employed in any of the 
above said concerns like- 


1.A server in the hotel. ¢. Bus conductor. 
3. Assistants in a cloth shop. 4. Assistant in an Oil shop 


or store Keeper and so cn. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Hishaba and in Mrigasira star 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) Itit is a paid job- then 

. The Native will be employed in Estates. 

. He will be employed in pesticides shop. 

. He will be a washerman/dhobi. 

. One will be employed in tobacco company. 

. One will be working on land as an agricultural labourer. 
. Or as a person who issues cinema tickets in a theatre. 


ma om & w fH 


B) lf it is an independent Business- then 


1. Automobiles. 2. Engineering. 
3. Wine-brandy shop. 4. Trading in leather goods 
or leather. 
5. Flower, fruit etc. 6. Tooth powaer-face powder etc: 


When the 10th cusp rises in Mithuna and in Mrigasira star 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signifies- 


A) If itis an Independent business- then 

1. Tools. machine-tools manufacturers. 

2. Manufacturers of electrical goods, washing machines. 
3 Manufactures cf drugs and pharmaceuticals. 

4. Battery, acids etc. 
3 


. Production of telephones, wireless, telegraph equipments. 


a5? 


B) lf itis a paid job then- 
The Native will be employed as a worker, low or high in any one 
of the above said concerns. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Mithuna and in Arudhra star 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) If itis an Independent business- then 


1. Book shop, paper mart. 2. Advertising. 
3. Medical shop 4, Finance broker. 
5. Newspaper industry. 6. TV Radio sales and so on. 


Further, where in which house tne Rahu is stationed Rahu 
will reflect that house. Therefore, we must take the Karakathwa 
of that planet along with Karakathwa of Mercury, the blend of 
the two should be judged to select the right profession. 


B) If itis a paid job then- 

the Native will be employed in any one of the above said 
concerns, like- 

1. Employee in a post office, telegraph office. 

2. AS a mechanic in a radio shop. 

3. AS assistant in a pesticides shop. 

4. Distributor of newspaper like newspaper boy. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Mithuna and in Punarvasu star 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification. 


A) Ifit is for an independent business, then- 
the Native will be a self employed, engineer, astrcloger, story 
writer, runs a cloth shop, runs a newspaper man, a financier, 
exporl business, commission business and so on. 


358 


B} Ifit is a paid job, then- 
the Native will be employed as a teacher, as, an agent in 
Insurance company, postman, other higher posts in the postal 
department, ambassador, diplomat and so on. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Cancer (Karkata) and in 
Punarvasu star, and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) ifitis for an independent business- 
the Native will be a financier, temple trustee, religious head and 
soon, 


B} If it is a paid job, then- 
the Native will be employed as doctor M.D. (Govt.}, nurse, 
engineer in water supplies, bank job and so on. The high or low 
profile in a job depends on the fundamental strength or 
weakness ofthe birth chart. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Karkata and in Pushya star, 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) If itis a paid job, then- 
the Native will be employed in a corporation, worker in water 
supplies department as a plumber or engineer from an ordinary 
labourer to officer in big oil companies, worker in a petrol Bunk 
and such similar jobs. 


B) If it is an independent business, then 
running of toddy shop, blood bank, seller of low grade yarn, oil 
shop, manufacture of icecreams, production of thick bed 
spreads, blankets, digging canals as a contractor and several 
such items. 


309 


When the ?0th cusp rises in Karkata and in the star 
Aslesha, and # the 10th cusp sub signification 


A) If it is an independent business, then- 
the Native will have a printing press- of his own, textile mill 
owner, artist writing sign board, running a travel agency, 
manufacturing of paints and so on. 


B) lf it is a paid job, then- 
the Native will be a worker in the printing press, he will be a 
sales assistant in a lottery ticket shop, selling tickets in a cinema 
theatre, a worker similar to a cleaner in bus, lorry etc, employed as 
a painter, worker in a textile factory, worker as a printing & dyeing 
and so on. 


¥hen the 10th cusp rises in Simha and i in the star Maka, 
and if the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) lf itis a paid job, then- 
the Native will be a Government pleader, Government dactor, 
security officer or staff in the Government department and so 
on. 


B) if itis an independent business, then- 
Production of chemicals, doctor (Private), jewellery shop, 


covering gold ornaments, and similar such professions. 


When the 70th cusp rises in Simha and in P.Palguni star, 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A} lf itis for an independent business, then - 
Transport service, selling of radio/T.V sets, teaching 


360 


music/dance or singer/dancer, automobiles, to run a cinema 
theatre and similar such profession. ; 


B) If it is a paid job, then- 
bus driver/conductor, worker in a radio/T.V. shop, doing sundry 
jobs in drama/cinema troupe, salesman, using a hand cart for 
door delivery, or operating a supply van and so on. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Simha and in Uthira Palguni 
star and if the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) lf tis for an independent business then- 
to have a very big electrical shop, to run a big level iron & steel 
company, to invest in crores to make big size materials out of 
iron & steel for trading, and so on. 


B) If itis a paid job, then- 
IAS officer, IG (Police), from peon to a high official in 
Govemment service- in which the low and high level status are 
to be judged from the birth chart 


When the 10th cusp rises in Kanya and in Uthira Palguni 
star and if the 10th cusp sub Significatior- 

A) fitis an independent business, then- 
astrologer, paimist, tourism organisers, .production of chemical 
and engineering goods, manufactunng loud speakers, amplifiers 
and 80 on. 


B) It itis a paid job, then- 
college lecturer, ambassador, higher posts - all in government 


When the 10th cusp rises in Kanya and in Hastha star arid if 
the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) It it is tor an independent business, then- 
dealing in yarn, lawyer, export-import, artist, textile shop, trading 
in tobacco, dry cleaning and similar such profession. 


B) If it is a paid job, then- 
the Native will be employed in any one cf the above said 
organisations. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Kanya and in Ghithra star and if 
the 10th cusp sub signitication- 


A} It it is for an independent business, then- 
self employed engineer, lawyer, to run a printing press, 
financier, production of industrial goods, electrical goods, 
financial agents, jewellary mart, and a similar such profession. 


B) If it is a paid job, then- 
From assistant to officer in Sales tax department, accountant, 
brokerage, commission agents, working in subordinate cadres in 
the judicial courts, lower or higher posts in the defence 
depariment and a similar type profession. 


When the 19th cusp rises in Thula and in Chithra star and if 
the 10th cusp sub gignification- 


A) If it is for an independent business, then- 
Building contractors, production of automobile spare parts, tyre 


retreading, to run a chemical factory, and a similar type 
profession. 


462 


B} Ifit is a paid job, then- 
the Native will be employed in any one of the above said 
orgamsations, and one may work as an Engineer in a private 
concern, or employed in army canteens, or employed in arts & 
culture - acadamies and so on. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Thula and in Swathy star and if 
the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) If it is for an independent business, then- 
Transport agents, paint shop, selling of fridge, selling of x-ray 
components. cosmetics, fancy goods. ladies garments, to 
conduct exhibitions and other professions related to Karakathwa 
of planets for whom Rahu will act as agent. 


B) If it is a paid job, then- 
the Native will be employed in hospital, health services, as a 
maid servant. busdorryAractor-driver, employed in spinning 
mills and soon. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Thula and in Vishaka star and if 
the 190th cusp sub signification- 


A) If itis a paid job. then- 
employed as a driver in tounsm bus, a sailor in the ship, 
employed in revenue department, employed in banks and so on. 


B) if itis for an independent business, then- 
To conduct tourist travel service, real estates, financing, exports, 
owner of textile mills. owner of big textile shops, organising chit 
funds. having Big flour mills. 


363 


When the 70th cusp rises tn Vrischika and tn Vishaka star 
and if the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) lf it is a paid job, then- 
Lawyer, judge, insurance officer, customs, defence cepartmeni, 
village head man and so on. 


B) If # is independent business, then- 
Estate owner, share market, chemicals and drug manufacturer- 
agricultural land lord (Zamindar}, preparing ayurvedic medicines 
and similar such professions. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Vrischika and in Anuradha star 
and if the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) lf it is a paid job, then- 
employed tn a big engineertng concern, weaving woolen 
clothes, employed in tanneries, employed in textiles, employed 
in wine shop and so on. 


B) If it is independent business, then- 
Owner of textiles mills, owner of tannery industries, selling of 
low grade oils like diesel, grease, selling pure organic fertilisers, 
collecting scrap iron materials-casting new material and then put 
it for sales. 


When the 70th cusp rises in Vrischika and in Jyeshta star 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) lf itis independent business, then- 
Ta have a printing press, to prepare alphabets moulds far the 
press, to prepare advertising materials, preparation of materials 
64 


for textile industry, doctor(Private), manufacture of calculators. 
T¥. radio- and other electrical and electronic goods for sales 
and $0 on, 


B} If it is a paid job, then- 
the Native will be employed in any one of the above concerns. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Dhanus and in Moola star, and 
ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) Ifit is independent business , then- 
Religious head, trustee, ayurvedic doctor (private}, wholesaler in 
fruits and flowers, departmental stores and similar such 
professions. 


B} If it is a paid job, then- 
Lawyer, judge. teacher, cabinet rank ministers, Govt 
ambassadors and so an. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Dhanus and in Poorvashada 
star, and if the10th cusp sub signitication- 


A} If itis independent business, then- 
Restaurant, textiles, bus service, film show, exports, financing. 
marketing and similar such professions. 


B} Ifitis a paid tob, then- 
Lawyer, judge, bank employed, accounts and auditor general. 
welfare officer, high level post in child and health care. 
veterinary doctor (Govt ) and so on. 


28 


- 


When the 10th cusp rises in Dhanus, and in Uthirashada 
star, and if the 10th cusp sub signitlication- 


A) Ifitis paid job, then- 
Government pleader, Attorney, Govt. ambassador, customs 
officer, Jail Superintendent, and so on. 


B} Itit is independent business, then- 
Private doctor in Ayurvaidhya, Siddha vaidhya, private bankers, 
financing, exporis and similar such professions. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Makara, and in Uthirashada 
star, and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) 1fit is independent business, then- 
Real estates, supply of steel materials to Government, 
engineering concerns, private doctor in Siddha vaidhya, running 
old age homes and similar such professions. 


B} fit is a paid job, then- 
Higher to lower level posts in city or Municipal corporations, 
service engineer or maintenance engineer in construction and 
repairs of drainage systems, sewage boards, public lavatories 
and soon. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Makar and in Sravana star, 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) If itis a paid job, then- 
Employed in petroleum companies, petrol bunks, employed in 
dam construction sites, digging drainage tunnels, plumber, 
worker in a ship attending several type of works and so on. 


66 


B) Ifit is independent business, then- 
Mines and mining, like granite stones, oil mills", to run petrol 
bunks, manufacture of different grades of ail, preparing coarse 
yarns, preparing different type of cool drinks, and similar such 
profession. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Makara and in Dhanishta star, 
and ifthe 10th cusp signification- 
OR 
When the 10th cusp rises in Kumbha and in Dhanishta star and 
it the 19th cusp signification- 


A) If it is independent business, then- 
Agricutture (farming). reclamation of lands for agriculture- say 
coffeetea estates, trading in leather and leather goods, trading 
in mutton/beef and similar such professions. 


B) It itis a paid job, then- 
employed in colice or military, working in big factories, employed 
as junior engineers, assistant engineers, employed in 
Government electricity departments, and so on. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Kumbha and in Sathabisha 
star and ifthe 4 Oth cusp sub signification- 


A) fit is Independent business, then- 
Independent research work doing research in ancient scripts 
experl in palmistry, owner of big warehouses, Maruiacturing 
different type of glass materials, manufacturer of drugs & 
chemicals - 
AND 
Rahu stationed in which house acting as agent of that house 


367 


lord- according to the Karakathwa of those planets, professions 
should be predicted. 


B) If itis paid job, then- 
Employed as doctors in mental hospitals, lunatic asylums, and 
employed in several categories in such mental hospitals, 
employed in censor board, employed as jail superintendent or in 
diferent cadres in the jail department, or astrologer in 
Nadi-jyothisha, employed in electrical works or in the Statistics 
department and so on. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Kumbha and in Poorvabadhra 
star and if the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) If it is a paid job, then- 
Employed in municipality, employed in Statistics department, air 
pilots, higher to lower level jobs in big city corporations, and so 
on. 


B) lt itis independent business, then- 
Palmist, astrologer, research Undertakings, finance, banking, 
export of food items like wheat flour, tapioca flour, that is all in 
powder forms, and similar such professions, 


When the 10th cusp rises in Meena, and in Poorvabadhra 
star, and if the 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) If it is independent business, then- 
Active participation in politics, honorary trustee in temples, 
fourist, travel service, banking, money lending, trading in high 
quality fabrics, wholesale trader in Rice, and similar such 
professions. 


B) If it is a paid job, then- 
College professor, councillor, judge, jail superintendent and 
other higher posts and so on. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Meena and in Uthirabadhra star 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) If it is independent business, then- 
Engineers, restaurants, provision stores-department stores, 
clubs for entertainments, import-export business, and similar 
such professions. 


B) Ifit is a paid job, then- 
C.LD., police, jail officials, ambassadors, employed ni 
Government hospitals, insurance officers, store Keepers in Mills, 
Employed in fisheries department, employed as executive 
oflicers in religious and endowment board, and $0 on. 


When the 10th cusp rises in Meena, and in Revathy star, 
and ifthe 10th cusp sub signification- 


A) {fit is independent business, then- 
Newspapers with big circulation, astrologer, auditors, lawyers, 
advertising agencies, share brokers, everything connected to 
printing, communication, courier services, banks, finance, chit 
funds, and similar such professions. 


B} Ifitis a paid job, then- 
Judge, engineer, MLA, councillor, Government auditor, higher 
officials in Government printing press, lawyer, ambassadors, 
employed in customs and excise deparilments and so on. 


369 


From Mesha to Meena, according to birth time there will be 
12 different lagnas, and according to birlh lagna any one 
bhava-house will be the 10th house. Accordingly, this 10th 
house having 3 diflerent stars, the 10th cusp will rise in any one 
of these 3 stars along with the lord of the 10th house. As such, | 
have explained how several profession are formed arising out of 
the 10thcusp- read as, at sign-star level in a broad sense and of 
approximate levels. 


Therefore, fromm Mesha to Meena, in a sign, of the 10th 
house, there will be 3 levels of profession only- that is 1} 
Mars-Kethu 2) Mars-Venus and 3) Mars-Sun. Therefore and 
likewise, we will have 12 x 3 = 36 levels of profession, to 
indicate the paid job or independent job. Of these 36 levels, 
each level has manifold type of occupations. It is an impossible 
task to explain in one book every type of occupation/profession. 
Itis possible to sort out the profession only to a general, broad, 
and approximate levef. Ditching on the Karakathwa of planets at 
sign-star level. 


For example, of a 10th house level, that 10th cusp - sub 
signification, if itis independent business, and accordingly if you 
have to predict the Native to be an industrialist, then in it there 
are hundred type of industries. Therefore based on industries, 
as you analyse the Karakathwa of planets, an astrologer can 
certainly predict, that a Native will be an industrialist to produce 
a particular product, or boldly indicate half a dozen product. 


Similarly, if the 10th cusp sub signification- if it is a paid job, 
and if you have to predict- say teacher, then on the strength of 


370 


the birth chart one can boldly predict a Native will be a lecturer 
or professor, again if you say an ordinary job in Government 
based on birth chart, the job may be from peon to clerk, attender 
and so on. Therefore to specifically select a few jobs it is the 
birlh chart that has to speak. The low and high profiles of the 
jobs are to be verified through birth charts only. 


Protession wise, as per birth chart, how to judge the low and 
high status, be it an independent business or a paid job? 


Any birth chart, that is taken up for analysis, it is the lagna 
lord that has to be very strong. Then again, how do we judge the 
strength of a lagna lord? 


Alagna lord may be of a- 
1. A High or very high level. 2. Middle level. 
3. Low level. 4. Very low level. 


The above are the 4 levels of a lagna lord. 


That is a lagna being a Chara rasi and that lagna lord 
connected to houses 2,10,6,7 and also to the 3rd house, but, 
without any connection to the 8th house, this is a high level. 


Lagna lord if not at all connected to 2nd or 10th but dasa 
lord alone is connected to 2nd and 10th, and also runs the dasa- 
this will be a middle level. 


Lagna lord connected to houses 2-10 and also connected to 
8th house- then it is a low level. 


of 


Lagna lord with no connections at all to houses 2-10-6, But 
connected to all other houses along with 8th, then it is to be 
clearly understood to be of a very very low level. 


As read above, and further to it, if the lagna lord, for a Chara 
rasi lagna NOT to mix up with 113th, for Sthira rasi lagna NOT to 
mix up with 9th, for Ubhaya rasi lagna NOT te mix up with the 
/th, and every analysis made as said above- then it will be of a 
high/very high level. 


Here too, to the immediate above paras, if the lagna lord is 
connected to tne 8th, it is to be judged as a little low from the 
high/very high level. Likewise, we have to first decide the level 
of strength of the lagna lord. 


lf a Native, as per the 10th house level matlers, runs an 
industry/mill, the lagna lord connected to houses 2,6,10,14 
without any connection to the respective Chara-Sthira-Ubhaya 
badhakasthanas and also runs the favourable dasa/bukthi who 
in turn are favourably linked to houses 2-11, the Native will run 
even 1G or 20 industries- that is the Native will be an industrial 
magnet or industrial wizard or industrial giant. 


Now, say a low level- A Native has a mechanised 
handloom. i.e. powernoom- here if the lagna lord, the 2nd dhana 
lord, the 11th labha lord found to be weak, the Native will have 
only a handloom and never he will have a powerloom. 


On this basis only, even if a Native is qualified to run an 
Independent business or to go in for a paid job, only on the 
strength of lagna lord, the dhana lord and the labha lord, the low 


3f2 


and high levels in a profession is formed. Contrary to the 
strength required from kagna-dhana-and labha lords, any planet 
be it exalted or ruling own house, everything becomes 
USELESS, without a single advantage, resulting only in 
FAILURES in the profession. 


Now let us see what a poem/couplet/sioka- says 


Poem 1 


"Ot the 10th- the Dhana lord- the Nidhi lord (Sth) 
the Labha lord - the lagna lord - strong 
by occupying kendra/kona - 

Others wherever they are/may be- 
The Native of this earth will have 
Name and tame through 
enormous wealth." 


Poem 2 


"Otthe 10th- the Dhana lord - the Nidhi lord - 
the labha lord 
the Lagna lord- spoiled in their strength- 
and occupying ¥raya{12)- Eight and six- 
The Native of this Earth is a 
dead-dead body." 


That is the Native will be begging cn the streets. The above 
2 poems were written by Maharishi Bhogar. 


a7 


What is said in the poem? 


Of the 10th - Lord of the House of Profession. 
Lagna lord - Lagna lord 

Labha lord - Lord of 171th. 

Dhana lord - Lord of 2nd. 

Nidhi lord - Lord of the 9th. 


Here we must know the lord of 11-9-7 for Chara-Sthira and 
Ubhaya and then apply in our analysis. 


The above lords if found strong, Name-fame and wealth. 
The above lord if found weak, the profession will fall to disgrace, 
that is very low level. 


High level means - Name, fame and wealth in abundance. 
Low level means - loss of name, fame and wealth. Loss of 
reputation and falling to a disgrace- almost reduced to begging. 


Therefore the above 2 levels are judged through 10th lord- 
the lagna lord- the lord of the 2nd, the lord of the 9th and the 
lord of 11th. 


Therefore to judge the protession suited to the Native, 
1} We must correctly find out according to one's birth time the 
10th cusp rising in a Sign on a parlicular deg-min-secs read as 
sign-star-sub. 


2} Next we must know about that sign lord, the cuspal star 
lord, that is in which star the cusp falls. 


afd 


3) Next the 10th cuspal sub lord who/which has beer 
deposited in which constellation - that constellation lord, if it 
signities 1,7,10,11 - it tells the independent business, and it it 
signifies 6,8,12 - it tells the paid job. This much we must, first 
clearly understand. 


The lord of the sign- where the 10th cusp rises. The lord of 
the star - in whose star the 10th cusp rises. The general 
nature-characteristics of the sign lord and the star lord- their 
Karakathwa are fo be taken as one blend to decide the 
profession. 


For example, 


Jupiter means - Karaka for dhana, child birth, higher studies ets. 
Mercury means - Karaka for arl, education, communication, 
printing, double tongue, plurality and so on. Venus means - 
Karaka for anything attractive, dance-drama-cinema, clothings, 
transporl, hotels etc. Moon means - Karaka for all liquids 
blood, oils, milk, butter milk and so on. Mars means - Karaka for 
all heat, fire, police, -military, post office, railway, blue print tor 
building constructions and sc on. Rahu means - Karaka for - to 
which house and planet he is the agent, the Karaka of planets 
conjoined with Rahu or aspecting Rahu. Rahu will always equal 


itself mainly to Saturn. 


Likewise. through experience in astrology, natural 
characteristics and Karakathwa of each and every planet should 
be well sorted out, before fixing a profe isian. 


3/5 


in a profession, to reach a high level or reduced to a low 
level, be it independent business or paid job, the lord of 10th 
must be connected in any manner to the 2nd house. Then 
alone, a profession can be thought of or said to be of a nigher 


level. Otherwise, the profession is said to stand at a lower level. 


Along with, what has been explained above, according to 
the co-operation or non-cooperation of dhana lord, labha lord, 
lagna lord and dasa‘bukthi lords, we are in a position to 


determine the grade levels of profession as 


1. Very very high level. 
2. Ordinary high level. 
3. Middle level. 
4. Low level, 
5. Very low level 


6. Very very low level- 

to that of a livelihood through begging. Thus, the entire human 
race- their status, their grades through the profile under 
profession, can be well defined as per the above mentioned 6 


levels. 


So much so, in the present modern days, we come across, 
many women* well qualified through education and fit for a 


comoetitive professicn, they are maintained as house wife, for 


376 


the simple reason, their lagna lords will be found to be very, very 


weak, relevant to profession. 


Next important observation will be to see not only the lord of 
10th is weak, the dasa/bukthi lords also do not operate during 
middle age to undertake a favourable profession. 


Our next study is about the 5th house - 5th house has to be 
strong. When the 5th house is strong it is advantageous to the 
husband and children but disadvantageous or even damaging to 
the wite. From such levels of analysis alone that we come 
across, we find such of those women cannot underlake any 
profession, bul remain as house wife during their entire life time. 


some ot the women, even though less qualified, their lagna 
lord, lord of 10th, lord of 2nd being strong, along with favourable 
dasa/bukthi, say even a SSLC women reaches a higher level 
profession. 


We find few persons who are clerks, are the same clerks till 
their death without any rise in their status by way of promotions 
and so on. The reason is - lagna lord will be stationed in the 4th; 
the 10th lord will not be having any connection to 2 and 10; the 
dasa/bukthi also will not be operating during their middle age. 
Naturally the Native will have stagnant set up of life. 


Again, we find few persons who started their life as a peon, 
coming upto a higher post. Here the reasons are the 10th 


af? 


house well connected to houses 2-3-7-10-6, of course subjected 
to Chara-Sthira-Ubhava, along with lagna lord and dhana lord 
being strong, and also having favourable dasa/bukthi during 
their middle ages, pushes the Native from a low level to a higher 
level. This type of analysis will hold good for Natives,’ relevant to 
profession - be it a paid job or independent business. All 
explained above are the secrets ofthe 10th house. 


With a sense of satisfaction within me and for the benefit of 
my fellow K.P. enthusiasts, ! made this Book 


Astrosecrets and Krishnamumnl Padhathi" - Part I, 
Right earnest | have commenced the work on 
Part Il 


of "Astrosecrets and Krishnamurti Padhathi" 
and hope to meet you all around this time in 1996. 


With pranamsto Guruji Sri. KSK. 


3768 


