Astrology and Timing 
of Marriage 


(a Scientific Approach) 


a group research based on over 200 charts with navamsha, two 
dashas and transit of planets by research students of January 2008 


batch. 
Eng ish Sec ion 


Alok Verma 
Ashwini Baqaya 


B. Shobha 
Harsh Kumar 


Meenakshi Priyadarshini 
Ra esh Ra 


Sheila Seth 


Guidance 
Shri K.N. Rao 


Appreciation by the Guide 


Many ignorant astrologers were 
objecting to marriages if Saturn was 
transitting in their seventh house till my 
researches on double transit of Saturn and 
Jupiter was published eighteen years ago. It 
was a very original and revolutionary 
research. But what happened later shows the 
sheer hollowness of Indian astrologers. 

However, what happened to the earlier 
research must be recalled. 


Plagiarism 

Books have come out recently and they 
are plagiarisms. I received the following letter 
which | am reproducing here verbatim. 


From 

Praveen Kumar chunnu2001 @vsnl.net> 

To: k n rao <k_n_rao@rediffmail.com> 

Subject: Plagiarism 

Date: Wed, 08 Oct 2003 21:44:24 IST 

Respected Sir, 

Sadar Pranam. 

Yesterday I was looking at some book 
on Transits by some S.K. Duggal of 
Chandigarh, published by Sagar 
Publications. 1 was shocked to see your 
‘Double Transit' theory therein, using 
almost the same wordings and without any 
reference to your goodself. I wonder how 
such persons can do justice with their 
profession of astrology, a divine science. 
More unfortunate is that even such blatant 
plagiarism can't be challenged in astrology. 
May God take care of the situation. 

Praveen Kumar (Mumbai) 


The bitter truth that we must face is that 
in this land of Hindus where marriage is such 
a sacred institution and parents are anxious 
to get their children, particularly daughters, 
married off, there is no method or dependable 
method of timing marriages in any of the well 
known and great astrological work. 


The first major research also plagiarised 
The first major research done in this 
direction was by me when l= asked 
S.N. Kapoor, M.N. Kedar, Lalita Gupta, 
J.N. Sharma and others to work on it. The 
entire research was guided by me and based 
on my double transit phenomenon. When they 
were serialised in the Astrological Magazine, 
the following was clearly written in one of the 
articles. 
See the following paragraphs 
excerpted from my book Saadhe Saate - 
a balanced view, page 6 — 


“Till 1985, most of my researches based 
on the double transit phenomenon had 
been published. | showed a career’s rise and 
fall, birth of children, of siblings and of 
marriage, For a_ replicable and statistical 
research on marriage, | decided to get 
produced a research by collecting a group of 
seven and gave them my parameters but, 
asked them to use their data which they did 
mechanically and tabulated them statistically. 
When it was serialised in the Astrological 
Magazine my name was always mentioned 
because it was my research and | guided the 
group of seven. 


continued on back inside cover... 


Acknowledgements 


At the outset we thank our Guru 
Shri KN Rao. He has been the prime guiding 
force to all of us. He has not only guided us for 
this work but has encouraged and supported us 
all through. It is entirely because of his grace that 
we have been able to contribute to objectively 
applying a number of well defined parameters 
to a large number of charts and drawing out 
statistical inferences on timing of marriage. 

Our classes Research Jr.’ started in Jan 2008. 
Shri Rao could not take the classes for the first 
few weeks as he was not keeping good health. 
However, in the very first class he took he told 
us to do a research on ’timing of marriage’ and 
present the same in the next astrology seminar. 
We were a bit taken aback but with his 
encouragement and support we started the work. 
Three charts each were distributed to all the 
students - and later they added two/three charts 
from their own data. We all were quite happy 
with the initial results. These were consolidated, 
compiled and were presented in the seminar 
held in Chinmaya Mission Auditorium in Delhi 
on 30-03-2008. It was very well received by the 
delegates. We thank all the faculty members of 
Bhartiya Vidhya Bhawan and the fellow students 
-seniors, juniors and colleagues. This encouraged 
us alot and we will always remain very thankful 
to them. 

In the very next class Sri KN Rao suggested 
that we should formalize our efforts in the shape 
of a book duly documenting all efforts, data and 
findings. tam sure Shane Warne must have learnt 
from Shri Rao that a new fresh ball can be given 
to arank newcomer and on encouragement he 
would perform as seen in Rajasthan Royal Team, 
IPL T20, 2008. We were both surprised and 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao Artes at aoe Tt 


worried on the idea of writing a book. 
Documenting any research workin the form ofa 
book is a challenging task. We were surprised 
because we never knew that we could do that. 
We were worried because such a thing creates a 
permanent record for future generations to 
comment upon and requires lot of efforts. At 
first we tried to argue with him about shortage 
of time etc. etc. but when we saw that he had 
firmed up his mind and there was no scope of 
any relaxation we started our efforts. Again the 
work was divided and everyone chipped in - 
some more and some less but each according to 
the time she/he had or could devote. Each one 
in our class has to be thanked for this. It is not 
possible to write all the names here as we are 42 
in the class. All the names are given in the 
appendix. However, | would fail in my duty of 
writing this acknowledgement on behalf of the 
class if | do not mention the names of Alok 
Verma, Anuj Gupta, Ashwini Bagaya, GK Joshi, 
Kalpana Sablok, Meenakshi, Rajesh Raj, Rama 
Gupta, Rishi, Satyendra Bisht, Shella Seth, 
Shobha, and Sunita in particular. Shella and 
Meenakshi have to be thanked again for 
coordinating the efforts, writing/rewriting and 
checking/rechecking the whole work. 

Once again we thank Shri KN Rao for his 
firm and 'No Negotiation’ attitude, 
encouragement, support, guidance and 
blessings. We thank all our faculty members at 
Bhawan for it is because of them that we have 
been able to do this work. Our special thanks are 
to Shri Manoj Pathak, Shri Naval Singh, Shri RS 
Panwar, Dr. (Mrs) SR Mishra and Shri VP Goel 
who have kindly agreed to let us quote from 
their book on conditional dashas. 


Any mistake in this book or research study | of reverence the financial support given by “the 
is entirely on account of our shortcomings and | Society for Vedic Research and Practices”, an 
we would correct them in the subsequent | organisation, fully dedicated to promote such 
editions, if only we are appraised. original research and innovative projects which 

And we do acknowledge with deep sense | reflects their preamble. 


Harsh Kumar 

on behalf of Research jr. Class, 

January-June 2008 

Institute of Astrology, Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan 


4 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * artevt st four Ta 


Contents 


Chapter — | 

Introduction ...........ccccscccsscsccscscssscsssccsssccssscssscsssecssssscssesssssssssssesssssrssessssoeses 7 

WRATEAT ..ccccccccccsccccerees bevcecccsccvccsercscccsoesvecsesoeees db oeccvcrscccvccscesecserecsccoscesescserosoces ia 
Chapter — 2 

Parameters — Timing of Marriage. .............cscccsccsssscssscessscsscscscscescsesscseees 14 

OTR ccsaccccssascccccstccsacsdseacedvencensesesoseatesdessesssetectscesenacdccsecsevseeseedansoossecsicestbest 18 
Chapter — 3 

Case Studies 

PABST SETA adcien snccasacevcoavecsosusisecsscssvesesoinachosesscadaas cases casahessvees sieacdacheasuesicses 
Chapter — 4 

Additional Cases ................scccscsscscrsccsscsssccsscserscsccscecsescssonescssecssseessoscssecees 94 
Chapter — 5 

Conditional Dasha ...........c.ccccsccssssssssssersrresesccscesccssrsssesssssccssscsssesssesesesrsees 104 

PERT SS PUT wes ccei beens cacacecesdecs seeds ootendenseeses cues scbedenniiuspceuiiocndnseaustesnsicccs 109 
Chapter — 6 

Observations ..........ccscsscssssssccsssessccssssesssssssssstsessssesoosssssrsrssessesssasooesessoes 113 

co 115 
Conclusions . 117 
PADRE arises ckset Sracssnaciccstkieccasnscets ces sndevesessceussevissecsiesesetsetsauasiuceestatacesedeledssdtuesdrsiantees 119 
Books by Vani Publications ..............sssscssssccssssresscsceseseonescocssessesseccnssoesscccsenceee 121 


6 Guide Shri K.N. Rao “ arigyia sft eute va 


Chapter — 1 


Introduction 


The world is said to have began with 
Brahma’s ’Manas Shrishti’ where Brahma willed 
and man came to life. This process of creation 
had two major problems. The first problem was 
that Brahma could create only ‘men’ who came 
to life, carried on choses, prayed, performed 
yagna and attained ‘Moksha’. The second 
problem was that this process was not self 
regenerating hence, there was stagnation, 
decrease in population & ultimately back to zero 
population. Therefore, Brahma had to create men 
again and again. 

This led to the need for ‘Maithun Shrishti’, 
i.e., creation through Sex. However, Padmayoni 
Brahma is said to have been at a loss as to how 
to create a woman. He realized that he would 
need Shiva’s help to be 
able to achieve success. 


Story of 
Ardhnarishwar 
Frequent prayers of 
Brahma to the ‘all 
powerful Shiva’ were 
answered and a very 
pleased Shiva stood in 
front of him. After 
lending a very 
sympathetic ear to the 
problems of Brahma, 
Shiva took the form of 
‘Ardhnarishwar’ and 
subsequently Shiva Devi 
came into being. 
Brahma prayed to her 
and put forward his 
difficulties seeking her 
grace to grant him ability 
to create a woman. On 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ Antex sit 


being pleased with his prayers ‘Shiva Devi’ 
emitted a divine light from between her 
eyebrows which took the form of ‘Shakti’ which 
entered Brahma’s heart rendered him the ability 
to create women. 

Shiva Devi’also agreed to Brahma’s request 
to be born as Daksha’s daughter. This is how 
women came into being. 

However, for ‘Maithuni Shrishti’ to be 
successfully implemented it was important for 
men and women to be attracted to each other. 
Therefore, all devatas approached Kamdev and 
Rati for help in getting Mahadev Shankar 
attracted towards Parvati and initiating ‘Maithuni 
Shristi’. 


Story of Kamdev being 
Reduced to Ashes 
Kamdev for the sake 
of humanity agreed to 
the proposal and 
followed by the Devtas 
set out to Kailash where 
Shiva was engrossed in 
his ‘Tapasya’. After Kaam 
along with his friend 
Vasant aimed his arrow 
at Shiva, he felt attracted 
towards Parvati. This 
surprised him and he 
wondered as to what was 
the cause of this 
disturbance in his 
meditation. His probe in 
all directions led him to 
see Kamdev on his left 
all set with his bow and 
arrow to aim at Shiva 
again. This irked Shiva so 


7 


much that he emitted a large ball of fire from his 
3rd eye which took a vicious form, went up to 
the sky and fell on earth setting everything on 
fire. Everyone panicked and ran ‘hither thither’ 
but to no avail. Before anyone could seek 
forgiveness Kamdev was reduced to ashes. All 
of them froze in their place and Rati fainted with 
gtief. On gaining consciousness she prayed to 

Shiva and sought his grace and blessing. Shiva 

mellowed down and blessed her. He said that 

Kamdev would take human form once Vishnu 

took avatar as Sri Krishna and would be born of 

Rukmani’s womb. He would be named 

‘Pradyumn’ but till then he would enter every 

being's heart in the form of ‘Ananda’. 

This led to the beginning of ‘creation 
through sex’ and also the entire chaos in this 
world. As everyone started to get attracted to 
each other it led to alot of unforeseen problems. 
So in order to selfregulate the human race and 
to maintain sanity and sanctity of institution in 
the society, certain legal, social and moral codes 
were enforced and Manusmriti elaborates about 
these codes in detail. 

In ancient times, a human being on an 
average was said to have had a life of 100 years 
equally divided into 4 parts or ’Ashrams’ 
Brahmcharya, Grihastha, Vanprastha and Sanyas. 
Out of these Grihastha is the ashram where a 
person gets married and produces children and 
discharges his duties towards the society. This, 
therefore, is the most important ashram from 
social point of view and hence was most keenly 
scrutinized by one and all. The Shastra lay down 
marriage as a sacred duty which entails both 
social and religious obligations. Manusmiriti 
clearly lays down certain codes pertaining to the 
marriageable age and do’s & don’ts invoived in 
the institution of marriage. Some of them are: 
@ = Girls should be married off only after she is 

16 years old. 

@ Women should be given responsibility of 
Money, wealth, expenditure, planning, 
religious duties, kitchen, complete 
household etc. 


@ Women are to be respected; they are like 
’Sree Lakshmi’. 

@ A man only gets the woman who is 
destined to be his wife so he should be 
thankful to God. 

@ Husband and wife should live together 
harmoniously duly performing their 
religious duties. 

@ They should not do anything which may 
create ill will/rift between them. 

@ = If a man has to go abroad in connection 
with his work then he should provide 
enough for this wife before leaving. 

@ The marriage is to be declared void if the 
girl is married off without disclosing facts 
(illness, cruel nature etc.). 

@ = If the woman, harboring ill will towards her 
husband, does not change her nature within 
one year should be divorced (given up) 
after forfeiting her jewellery etc. But if she 
does so because of defects with the man 
then she should not be abandoned. 

@ Girl should not be married off to an 
undeserving person (ara). 

@ If the father cannot marry off his daughter 
within three years of her attaining 
marriageable age, then she may find a man 
on her own. 

However, depending on the social norms, 
customs and conventions there were a lot of 
variationsin the above codes from State to State 
and even between different regions in the State. 


Types of Marriage 

In the ancient times 8 kinds of marriages 
were prevalent which were said to have evolved 
from the lower to higher stage. 

The 8 kinds of marriages are Braham, Daiva, 
Arsha, Prajapatya, Asur, Gandharva, Rakshas and 
Paishach. Of these Paishach is of the lowest order 
whereas Brahm is of the highest order. 

Mahirishi Manu further elaborates the 
various marriages suitable for different Varnas 
and pros and cons of all 8 types of marriages 
along with the types of progeny that follows due 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arte sf aut 


« 


witfay ait frag ama (ra tafe gfeator) 


to different kinds of marriages. 

According to him for a person who is 
Brahmin, first 6 types of marriages are 
appropriate whereas for Kshatriya, Vaishya and 
Shudra only Arsha, Prajapatys, Asura and 
Gandharva are appropriate. Rakshas and Paishach 
kind of marriage is not good for any one and 
should never be indulged into. These 8 kinds of 
marriages are briefly described below — 

Brahma — This entails that the bride’s father 
respectfully invites an eligible groom along with 
his family members to his house and would have 
his daughter’s marriage solemnized according 
toreligious ceremonies. He would perform what 
is referred to as ‘Kaanya Daan’ of his daughter. 

Daiva — In this form of marriage the girl’s 
father would give away his daughter in marriage 
as ‘Daan’ to the priest who performs the ’yagna’. 

Arsha — This form of marriage is generally 
prevalent in remote and isolated hilly areas and 
involves girl’s father accepting a few cows from 
the groom who wants to marry his daughter. 

Prajapatya — According to this type of 
marriage, the bride is given away to the groom 
along with her father’s blessings with the sole 
purpose of living together in order to produce 
children and bring them up and thus get rid of 
the debt of Prajapati, Lord Brahma. 

Asur— Marrying a girl after paying off some 
money to the parents and relatives of the gir! 
and also offering jewellery and fineries to the girl 
herself is called ’Asur’ marriage. 

Gandharva — Coming together of a boy 
and girl due to mutual attraction and marrying 
each other without giving any consideration to 
religious ceremonies is called 'Gandharv’ 
Marriage. 

Rakshas — Marrying a girl after abducting 
her against her wishes and the wishes of her 
parents is Rakshas Vivah. There is absolutely no 
feeling of love and attraction in this form of 
marriage. 

Paishach —~ In this form of marriage, which 
is regarded as the worst form, an innocent girl 
who is sleeping, unconscious, drugged or unable 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % Arfevt at owe a 


to protect herself is lured, kidnapped & forced 
into marriage after being molested or raped. 

Of the 8 types of marriages, Brahma and 
Gandharva are in vogue even today. In the former 
the parents arrange the marriage and all religious 
rituals and ceremonies are followed. The fatter is 
popularly cailed ‘love’ marriage, court or civil 
marriage and performed in the presence of a 
magistrate where the consent of respective 
Parents is not necessarily required. 

Whatever the type of marriage we will ali 
agree that marriage was, is and will always be 
considered a major event in an individual's life. 
In western society, Christianity played a major 
role in holding fort for ’sacramental marriages’. 
However, after World War Il especially in 1960s 
the institution of marriage started breaking up. 
The system of ‘couples living together’ and 
producing children out of wedlock’ was rampant 
in Europe and America. Terms like 'single-mom’ 
and ’unwed mothers’ have become common in 
these countries. 

Now with the development of media and 
means of communication the world has shrunk. 
This has led to breaking down of the orthodox 
oriental societies of Asia as well. Also stress on 
education and career for women has changed 
our outlook towards the institution of marriage 
especially as far as the ‘marriageable age’ is 
considered. 


Marriage Concept 

Change is the only constant’, and hence 
the concept of marriage has also been constantly 
changing. However, all said and done, "Marriage 
is bulwark against time, for, time is the measure 
of change, and, in marriage two people take 
vows never to change as far as their love and 
feelings for each other are concerned’. Come 
what may and for ‘Maithun Shrishti’to continue 
coming together of man and woman is a must 
and what better way could be there other than 
marriage. 

Marriage is a relationship/matrimonial 
alliance between individuals who come to regard 


9 


{Introduction 


their partners as ‘jeevan saathi’, recognized by 
the civil authority and/or bound by the religious 
beliefs of the bride and groom as participants. 

Marriage is found virtually in every society. 
The very oldest records that refer to Shaadi speak 
of it as an established custom but despite 
attempts by anthropologists to trace the origin 
of matrimony, evidence is lacking. 

Marriage marks the occasion when two soul 
mates undertake to sail married life’s torrents 


10 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


together. It is a moment of commitment, hope 
and happiness. Life is the most important gift 
that parents give to their children and then 
choosing a perfect life partner for them is the 
second. Therefore, even today marriage remains 
avery sacred and important institution of society 
and most parents who seek guidance of 
astrologers focus (after asking about education 
and career) on marriage of their children. They 
feel relieved of all duties only after their children 
are happily married and settled. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & artexiz sit dere wa 


Chapter - 2 


Parameters — Timing of Marriage 


"A successful marriage depends on two factors: 
finding the right partner and being the right person". All 
stories of why and how marriage takes place, raises 
question about when the marriage shall take place, i.e., 
what are the Parameters for 'timing of marriage’. 

Our Guru Shri KN Rao Sir has, after several years of 
observation and elaborate study, divided these parameters 
in two broad categories: Dasha and Transit. 

After checking the promise of marriage in a 
horoscope the appropriate dasha, i.e., the dasha which 
can give marriage must be arrived at. It is always 
advisable to check at least two dashas simultaneously to 
reduce margin of errors if not eliminate them. In our 
parameters we have considered Vimshottari dasha and 
Jaimini's Chara Dasha. The former happens to be Nakshatra 
based and the latter Rasi based thus making it a 
comprehensive approach. 


Let us discuss the parameters: 


Group A_ - Dasha Based 

Parameter 1 Connection of Vimshottari 
Mahadasha (MD), Antardasha (AD) lords with Lagna or 7H 
or Lagna Lord (LL) or 7L of D1/D9 or planets associated 
with them. According to this parameter the MD and AD 
lords ought to have PAC (Position, Aspect, Conjunction) 
connection with Lagna, Lagna Lord (LL), 7th house (7H), 
7th Lord (7L) or the planets associated with them in 
Rashi (D1) and Navamsha(D9) chart. 

As per our Guruji Shri KN Rao, the D9 must always 
be checked as it is the 'sooksham' kundali of the native. 


Parameter 2 -Char Antar Dasha making a connection 
with Darakarak (DK), Darakarak 


14 


Navamsha (DKN), Dara Pada (DP), Up- Pada (UP) lagna or 
7th lord of D1 or D9. As we know Jaimini's Char Dasha is a 
rashi based dasha and not a nakshatra based dasha. Hence 
here the AD rashi should establish a connection by being 
in 

1-7 axis with DK, DKN, DP, UPL or 7L or by giving them 
Jaimini Drishti. 


Group B - Transit Based 

Parameter 3 — Jupiter's aspects in transit on Vivah 
Saham: 'Vivah Saham' (VS) is a sensitive point in the 
horoscope and is arrived at by adding the longitudes of 
LL and 7L. The rashi thus arrived then becomes the Vivah 
Saham rashi. 

It is often said that 'someone somewhere is made 
foryou' and the day you come across that person you 
immediately feel and know that you have met ‘that 
someone’ you have been waiting for. Does it not soun 
like what our Sir refers to as Jupiter activating Vivah Saham 
in transit? 

Parameter 4 — Double Transit: The Saturn an 
Jupiter activating Lagna, 7H, LL, 7L or VS. The role o 
double transit was first revealed by our Sir ShriK.N. Rao in 
1984. Here we refer to activation of these houses/lords 
through PAC by the Karmadhipati and Dharmadhipati o 
Kaal Purush, i.e., Saturn and Jupiter. 

Parameter (Piya Milan) 5 - The terminology o! 
this parameter is evidence of our Teacher's advance 
sense of humor and his excellent technique of teaching in 
a manner which makes it impossible for anyone to forget 
what he has taught. 

In this parameter we are referring to LL and the 7L 
of native making a connection in transit just before 
marriage. According to our Sir, before the physical 
meeting on earth the planets meet in the heaven and 
pave path for the meeting. 


wiitfire afte free au (ue darfra ghecior) 


Parameter 6 — Jupiter activating natal 
Venus/Mars: According to this parameter 
transiting Jupiter activates natal Venus in male 
charts and natal Mars in female chart just before 
the marriage. 

Parameter 7 — Sun and/or most plane{s 
around Lagna or 7H: Our Sir pointed out the fact 
that in almost all societies during marriage 
ceremony mantras are chanted and prayers are 
read in order to invoke the Supreme Being and 
make him witness to this solemn ceremony and 
to seek His blessings. This is the reason that Sun 
and most planets (who are nothing but 
Dashavtara of Lord Vishnu) transit around Lagna 
or the 7H on the day of marriage. 

Parameter 8 — LL transiting in/near 7H or 
7L transiting in/near Lagna just before marriage. 


, Observations 


Q1 — Besides these parameters another 
observation which needs to be further researched 
isabout the role of Moon on the day of marriage. 
’NR’ means ‘No role of Moon’ in the transit chart. 

O2 —Transiting Satur aspecting Dara Karak 
(DK): It has been observed whether just before 
marriage Saturn activates DK by aspecting it 
(Jaimini aspect) or by being in 1-7 axis from it. 

Q3 — An observation made by Shri Naval 
Singh Sir relates to PAC relationship of MD and 
AD lords with 5-11 houses/lords of D9 chart. If 
one of MD/AD/PD lords connects to 5-11 axis of 
D9 we have taken meeting this observation. 

The parameters given above fix/indicate 
timing of marriage in a native’s horoscope. Vedic 
Hindu astrology, as proved again and again, is a 
Super-Science, hence these parameters though 
laid down on the basis of Vedic Astrology are 
applicable universally. 

Even as we say this, one should never forget 
the ‘Desh Kaal & Paatra’. For example in the 
chart of an orthodox Hindu girl any dasha 
" indicative of child birth would also indicate time 
i of marriage, but the same may not be true of a 
* woman hailing from Western Society. However, 
as pointed out above these parameters have 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  arkeis at Howe Ta 


ares 


been fixed after an elaborate research on 
horoscope of not only Hindus but natives from 
all over the world. The data researched 
encompasses Muslims, Christian, Russians, 
Americans etc. 

In the above parameters we have made 
use of Vimshottari Dasha and Jaimini Char Dasha. 
However, it is important to make note of the fact 
that if any special dasha is applicable to a chart 
then it must be checked as well. Use of 
conditional dasha is essential to confirm the 
readings of any general dasha. It is like taking a 
specialist opinion of an expert to confirm or 
modify the opinion of a general physician. A 
very detailed research has been conducted and 
books written on some of these dashas by our 
esteemed faculty members. Some of these books 
are: 

Dwisaptati Sama Dasha 

by Shri Manoj Pathak 

Chatursheeti Sama Dasha 

by Shri Naval Singh 

Dwadashottari Dasha 

by Shri RS Panwar & Dr. (Mrs) SR Mishra 

Shodashottari Dasha 

by Shri VP Goel 

Shasti Hayani Dasha 

by Shri VP Goel 

With their blessings and permission we 
quote a few paragraphs form their books, which 
will help. It is recommended that wherever these 
conditional dashas are applicable, readers must 
apply them on the charts to arrive at the timing 
of marriage. 

® Dwisaptati Sama Dasha (DSS) is a 
conditional dasha applicable only to horoscopes 
where lagna lord is placed in 7th house or 7th 
lord is placed in lagna or where lagna lord is in 
lagna and 7th lord is in 7th H. Shri Pathak has 
made following observations at page 134 & 135 
of his book regarding marriage and DSS dasha. 

“Thus marriage takes place in the dasha of 
planets connected with: 

o second house/second lord in rashi and 
navamsha. 


15 


Parameters 


© seventh house/lord of rashi and navamsha. 

o _insome cases planets aspecting fifth house 
but again getting connected to second 
house. 

© above situations in navamsha is essential. 

o planets getting connected through PAC 
with second house or second lord. 

Out of these seventeen charts, in which 
event of marriage was seen, in all 17 cases, the 
second house has played an important role in 
solemnization of marriage. This was so clearly 
evident in the birth charts and on navamsha 
charts. Add to this, a similar examination of the 
navamsha chart and the picture is clear. As you 
would have noticed, from the table above, it is 
these planet invariably which have given 
marriage. In two cases above, event of marriage 
has not been discussed and in one case applying 
the above principles we have foreseen marriage 
taking place soon. Thereby making it hundred 
percent in terms of percentage. Curiously this 
also explains more than one marriage involving 
the second house.” 

@ Chatursheeti Sama Dasha: This is 
applicable to all those charts in which 10th lord 
is placed in 10th house. Shri Naval Singh says in 
his book at page (page 143 & 144) “Thus 
marriage takes place in the dasha of planets 
connected with 
© Fourth house/fourth lord and seventh 

house/seventh lord in the birth chart (D-1). 
o _Lagna/lagna lord, seventh house/seventh 

lord, fifth house/fifth lord and eleventh 

house/eleventh lord in navamsha chart (D- 

9). 

o The event of marriage was examined in all 
the cases as listed above, the role of planets 
associated with fourth house/lord or 
seventh house/seventh lord in birth chart 
has been found to be dominating in 
solemnization of marriage. Similarly the 
planets connected with 1-7 and 5-11 axis 
of navamsha chart have played an important 
role in solemnization of marriage.” 

@ Dwadashottari Dasha: This applies to 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach} 


those charts where Navamsha lagna is Taurus or 
Libra as mentioned by Shri R.S. Panwar & 
Dr. (Mrs)S.R. Mishra 

@ Shodashottari Dasha: This applies to 
charts which satisfy following conditions: 

o Ascendant is in the hora of Moon and the 
birth is in the dark fortnight (Krishna Paksh) 

0 Ascendant is in the Hora of Sun and birth is 
in the bright half (Shukla Paksh). 

This is a nakshatra based dasha and as may 
be seen from the above conditions it applies to 
50% of the charts and must be used by serious 
astrologers as it has maximum applicability 
among the conditional dashas according to our 
respected teacher Shri VP Goel. His book gives 
deep insight on its method of application and 
timing of events once it is applied on the 
divisional charts. 

@ Shasti Hayani Dasha: This conditiond 
dasha is applicable to horoscopes having Sun in 
Lagna irrespective of the Sign rising and is 
applicable to one chart in twelve and thus need 
serious attention. Shri VP Goel has stated in his 
book "It is established that the 2nd and 10 house 
of divisional chart generated the event of the 
divisional chart in their dasha. 

Besides the above mentioned, there aire 
other conditional dashas as well and many 
research students at Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan are 
pursuing their research under the able guidance 
of our faculty members. One such dasha where 
our seniors are working, is Shatabdika Dasha 
which is applicable if native has Vargottam lagna 
We await their findings. 

This book ‘Astrology and Timing of Marriage 
(a Scientific Approach)’ is being presented afte 
extensive research on 200 horoscopes under the 
guidance of our esteemed Guru Shri KN Rao. In 
the following chapters we have presented 
detailed study of 50 cases which includes high 
profile as well as common men and women 
from all over the world and all religious belief 
(Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Sikh etc.). After thi: 
we present 150 cases in the form of Charts and 
tables for ready reference to our readers. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % artes a Heue | 


vatfan ait faene wre (ua aarfie gfcator) 


The following abbreviation have been used 


in the subsequent chapters. 


inves Date of Birth 

waa Place of Birth 

bake Time of Birth 

. Date of Marriage 
.-.. Vimshottari Dasha 


. Chara Dasha 
Vivah Saham 
Darakarak 
Darakarak Navamsha 
. Upapada 
eeeses Dara Pada 
Ari ...... Aries 
Tau ..... Taurus 
Gem.... Gemini 
Can ..... Cancer 
Leo ..... Leo 
Vir ...... Virgo 
Lib ...... Libra 


Sco ..... Scorpio 
Sag ..... Sagittarius 
Cap ..... Capricorn 
Aqu .... Aquarius 


Pis scecx: Pisces 

am @ sparat F frafatad ae afara wet 
am saan frat ver 21 

favinnt- fart <a 

at ~ TR OM 

fam. - faqs wen 

ae, - aR 

SLL, — SRR AAT 

<)  Ch 1 t 

aa, - aR 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % ariesia sft Sup wa 


Anes 
Sun Su 
Mon Mo 
Mar.... Ma 
Mer.... Mercury...or Me 
Jup..... Ju 
Ven Ve 
Sat ..... Sa 
Rah . Ra 
Ket..... Ke 
Lg Beene Parameter 1 
PS cise Parameter 8 
Ol ....... Observation 1! 
O3 ....... Observation 3 
DL ecevens. Lagna Lord 
Beatle Lord 
D9 ....... Navamsha Chart 
2H: cs. 3 2" House 
TH ....... 7°" House 
at-10 wareect 
St-9 Fai Hse 
a ow 
at TK 
a owe 
3 7 
a? oa 
qt Wy 
aw OMA 
UT UE 
a Fg 

17 


vatfire site faare waa (uae datfres shearer) 


eer Se 


Chapter — 3 


Case Studies 


Case study | 


Bith Chart 19-08-46 08:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage11.10.1975 


Sa 


PG —= Ps 
V Vv x ‘onnected 


Mo 
Cc 


Ra 
02 
Xx 


[pt | p2 | P3 | P4 | PS 01 03 

Y vy [x [ v a Taurus 

Analysis establishing a connection in transit and the 

P1 MD Lord Rahu in D1 is posited in the sign parameter is satisfied. 
of Venus. Rahu and Venus are marriage | P6 Jupiter is transiting in Pisces and from there 
givers. ADL Satur is posited with LL it aspects the natal Venus in Gemini, leading 
Mercury in D1 aspecting Lagna. PDL Venus to the fulfilment of this parameter. 
is in Lagna of D1. PDL Venus is a natural | P76 planets, including Sun, out of 9 planets 
marriage giver as well. So, the parameter is are in and around Lagna and 7H. So, this 
fulfilled. parameter is fulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Aries and it isin 1-7 axis | P8 LL Mercury is transiting in Lagna and 7L 
of DK and DKN, leading to fulfilment of the Jupiter is transiting in 7H. So, this parameter 
parameter. is not fulfilled. 

P3 Jupiter is transiting in the 7H (Pisces) | Observations 
whereas VS falls in the 5H (Capricorn) and Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
no connection of Jupiter with VS can be | transiting in Sagittarius and apparently it does 
established within the strict limits of this | not establish any connection with Lagna, LL, 
parameter. However, we need to remember | 7H, 7L. But probe a little deeper and find that 
that Bill and Hillary Clinton had started | Sagittarius happens to be Karakamsha Lagna (KL), 
seeing each other 2 years before their ; which is considered to be an alternate Lagna. 
marriage. Then, Jupiter would have been | Thus, Moon gets connected to KL. 
with VS, thus satisfying this parameter. Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 

P4 Saturn is transiting in Cancer from where it | Jupiter is posited in Libra and Saturn ts transiting 
aspects the Lagna. Jupiter is transiting in | in Cancer. DK does not get the Jaimini aspect of 
Pisces, the 7H. Thus the parameter is | Saturn. 
successfully met. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 

P5 LL Mercury is transiting in Lagna and 7L | 11H/L in D9 ~ in D9, ADL Saturn is 11L. 


Jupiter is transiting in 7H. So, LL and 7L are 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % apie st Gate a 


21 


Case Studies 


WHT ase 19-08-46 08:90:00 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach] 


a Yh 


aa é 
7 5 1 44 


ZN 


qert - 1 
fageraat 


1. 


FRIAY TE BH Ht Ui A fer gi aa at 
Ue Hl Get Gara F ee AA wT ZI 
ary we waraset A aT qT wh 
MY Sl WARN GIT YH oA A tl YP 


TUARH F SRR Aaie fiaa 1 ae WIS 
at WI Sat! 


Fa RE FYE Hl SAG Hy WT Tet TA WT 
21 cfs e4 ae ag Te at aed @ fe fact 


6. AM FR ae SEF RS Feet 


fers ye ot gfe tax ga ade at fran 


7. 74 wa 6 wel Aa aT ae SF ig 


Tat HH AT Bet ah 
AA FU TH 4 Ut, Gale Tae TS AH 
Hd gate ae aes sel yl el ete 2 


fans ar Tafte are 2 safe ae are | 8. 
ww gM 
wen a aad ao at eft feed aa a) tenor 


Tiree erg at aftr - aq 4 fed aa oF, 


TAT, TAA A Wade SG ae wae ae aT 


Te re aes re (Fe) 8 2, wah | a1 cies oie wend 8 ee a ee 
face Wen Uiad we (FAR) A usa @ sik | area am é fad fH defers am At ar aa 


3) sea aS A aes FT 1 


anearta UT Tat eit at afte - eRe 


a fect facied F 2 af ved O cl gered | ae ger 4B fem é ake tet a Of ae SB 
UR atoms oti wa ae 4 faa wea al eu saw a Sfirta cfe at ca we 


yatad fan en faa ae as FI ESM 


water WY WeTes a awardee aA 


oh Fret eed BU om al te el S| Wecerier aie Taree /Warasien A Gare - 


water Te at fares & ara aera A on eh ga | sai A seeder wh wae THe ZI 


We B cet We SI ATS WI Ea! 


Case study 2 


Analysis 


Pi 


P2 
P3 
Pa 


22 


MDL Mercury is LL of D1 and 7L of D9 and 
ADL Jupiter is 7" lord of D1 and LL of D9; 
PDL Mercury is placed in 7" H of D9. This 
parameter is fulfilled. 

AD Pisces in Chara dasha has DK Mo in it. 
Jupiter through retrogation is aspecting VS. 
Saturn is aspecting LL Mer(R). Whereas 


PS 


P7 


Jupiter is aspecting 7th lord Jupiter & LL 
Mercury. 

LL Mercury and 7th lord Jupiter are in 1-7 
axis, therefore, Piya Milan parameter is 
fulfilled. 

Jupiter is aspecting natal Mars placed in 2™ 
H. 

Planets are scattered in the horoscope. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arfexia at aut wa 


wits sik faare waa (wa daha gfzator ) 


Birth Chart 26-10-47 20:00:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Fer sey 


Transit Marriage11.10.1975 


POB {Chicago(USA) 


| P2 [| P3 | P4 | P5 | P6 | P7 | PB |] _o1 | 02] 63 | 
Vv Vv V Vv v Xx xX 7H Vv v 


P8 This parameter is not met for this horoscope. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 7° 
Hon the day of marriage. 


Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn aspect 
on DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or {1H/ 
L~ ADL Mercury aspects 5L Mars of D9. 


Bith Chart 26-10-47 20:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage 11.10.1975 Sra eat [Perera 
Sa 11-10-1975 
4 2 fame ya 
pax all 
faa. ert 
La. am 
oer [rie 
8 40 Ena land 
lets, ker 


1 TRIMS qT was a aT a Tae 
ar aaa ze) We aaa ft aM aa a 
aay 21 YRR WTA qe Aa FH WaT 
aa 4 21 ad: aed faare 4A A oot wer @ 

2. seen da A ares aT eI 

3. fame wen fae 4 2 ok fare & aaa A 
Hm at we oat We A sa yaad fra 

4. HURT A at ga ARR aH Te A aT 
geet F aaa qe ak ce gy a st 
verted fran! AP HI MT Set AT ast Ae 
al Ufa HE TET BI 

5, fra B Wa aa gy ak waa We A 
waar stent fra fara fara 


om 4 @, afew a 4 thee ae tS Te A ee 
Aes al et wet ch 

7. Fe Aes FH BSc RW AP] zeal at WI wally 
Tet BA TS TA A A | ST ZI 

8. ae ANTS tt sa Hec MW ay a aw 
waif ata a at ao we sit a St TART 
a WH 


That erg cat afte - aH fae H fest 
wan aa A om 

anrane ut treat att at gfe - aa A 
aa The ar aft AA fees ae aa a als 
wary et TAT TW Le ZI 

wait A wera a ataieéyirae aT 
UAT /GAAT BT WHAM / WATS A ACT - 


6. 7 TA ah AT Set 31 Teer Aa 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao area at tore wa 


FIAT TS TIA ATA Bl ta WI eI 


23 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Case study 3 


Birth Chart 09-11-31 12:29:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Mariage27-04-1957 


Jodhpur 


27.04.1957 
Sa/Sa/Ke 


Cancer 
Mercury 
Leo 


Aqua 


Capri 


Analysis 

Pi InD1, MDL and ADL Saturn is LL. PDL Ketu 
is posited in 9H and receives the tenth 
aspect of LL Saturn. In D9, MDL and ADL 
Saturn is posited in 9H and there it receives 
the ninth aspect of LL Jupiter. Thus, this 
parameter gets fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is Taurus and it receives 
the aspect of DP posited in Capricorn. 
Parameter is fulfilled. 

VS falls in Cancer and although Jupiter is 
transiting in Leo, it is retrograde. So, the 
aspect of Jupiter is effective from Cancer. 
This results in the fulfilment of the parameter 
that transiting Jupiter and VS should be 
connected. 

Saturn is the natal LL. Transiting Saturn 
aspects Lagna from Scorpio. This transiting 
Saturn is retrograde and its aspect will be 
effective from Libra. So, natal LL Saturn and 
natal 7L Moon both get connected to 
transiting Saturn. Jupiter is transiting in Leo 
and from there it aspects natal LL Saturn. 
Considering its retrogression, transiting 
Jupiter becomes effective from Cancer, thus 
establishing a connection with 7H. Thus, 
the double transit of Saturn and Jupiter gives 


qed - 3 (yea) 
fayeror 


1. warset Fo were wh wa ae 2 
Walk WaRRIMI Hq Aaa A dane wl st 
24 


P2 


P3 


P4 


its approval to marriage. 

LL Saturn is transiting in Scorpio and 71 
Moon is transiting in Pisces. Moon was in 
Capricorn till 23" April, receiving the aspect 
of transiting LL Saturn. So, the parameter is 
satisfied. 

Jupiter is transiting in Leo and natal Venus 
is posited in Scorpio. The retrogression of 
Jupiter means that its aspect would be 
effective from Cancer. Natal Venus receives 
fifth aspect of transiting Jupiter from Cancer. 
Parameter is met. 

Only 2 out of the 9 planets are transiting in/ 
around Lagna and 7H. So, this paramete 
remains unfulfilled. 

Natal 7L Moon was transiting in Lagna 4-5 
days before the marriage and so, the 
parameter is satisfied. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in the 
3° house. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — Dk 
Mercury is posited in Scorpio and Saturn is 
transiting there. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/o 
11H/L in D9 ~ In D9, MDL and ADL Saturn is 
11L and aspects 11H. 


aera gfe o ter 21 vain 4 wis od wa Fi 


fra wre ye Bt aa gfe 21 ae Ae 
avert & a et ae 21 


PS 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao artes sf att & 


wafer ait fears ara (ua dare ghar) get Fer 


Bith Chart 09-11-31 12:29:00 Navamsha ET Soe 04-1957 fae fig 
Nee, NIN N/E arte@|27.04.1957 
a 
aa. eae 
nn 
[RLTA. fae 
a. aos 
CN eS A, Tt Taw MM at afte eft) 


feet aRme gfe Sterat stare ws at| 6. fie Ake ae Se A ae S aR a 
TI eM z a wags A gfraae feed ga w gfe 


. me feed frase wen we fee A fera ae Ht SIR SH HGS HT OT fev 


onl gfe 2) Ha & SRT We at feefa| 7. aaa aaa Ss gaa Ao Aa Sa 2 
fret ora aa ot ort amet ae arcs We Zi ea SRT ae wd a ay al 
we sta z 8. aaa TT 4 fy Tec A a SRE EU Be 


Tr a aft gitae a am at ait aaa ards al yeh at gar 21 


ary fect uh gen a Ws Ted H ae | Prtterar 

TRS B AAT RT aM aa al wret wy cat eftenr - aT det ara A 2 
waited at ter om sat feafa A ae we a SRR UT That wilt at afte — asc 
oR vt gfe sre er om fide A ita we wer ae | cee gu aivan A fier 3 atk the 8 ah 
wae aft a ak aaa & HRT fret aa a | set on ea 21 

Ae aaa ot sat al sit wefaa ae wa water Y agrayt a amadymre at 
a aac, der th ysis: ay de 21 | eae aie wenresr wares S@ Be - 


tr a aa uf gaan Fd at gee | aa 2 aaa a vec uti at cfe 


wan Hie A 21 aa 23 sla dH wae A | GH ae He 21 
Case study 4 

Analysis posited in Taurus and ninth aspect on natal 

Pt MDL and ADL Saturn is the LL of D1. It is 7L Sun posited in Virgo. Thus double transit 
aspecting the Lagna. PDL Sun is the 7L of gives its clearance to the marriage. 

D1. The parameter is fulfilled. P5 LL Saturn and 7L Sun were transiting 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Aries and it isin 1-7 axis together in Taurus till 10" June, thus leading 
with DP Libra. The parameter is met. to the fulfilment of this parameter. 

P3_ VS in Scorpio does not get connected to | P6 Jupiter transiting in Capricorn is aspecting 
Jupiter transiting in Capricorn, leaving the natal Venus posited in Virgo. This parameter 
parameter unsatisfied. is satisfied. 

P4 Saturn is the natal LL and it is transiting in | P7 Only 2, out of 9, planets are transiting in/ 
Gemini from where it aspects the natal 7H. around Lagna/7H, and the parameter 
Jupiter is transiting in Capricorn from where remains unfulfilled. 
it casts its fifth aspect on natal LL Saturn | P8 Neither LL Saturn is transiting in 7H nor 7L 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aria sf aur wa 25 


Case Studies 


Bath Chart 


D9 Navamsha 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


Maniage From Lagna 


SaR Ve | SaR Ma Su = Ke POB [Allahabad 
DOM /13.06.1973 
As Ke Ju ee Vim — |Sa/Sa/Su 
;—-—— Chara |Can/Aries 
Ra || MoKe MeR Sul] JuR As VS Scorpio 
—-— ——__—_+. 
Mo | YeMa 7 <e DK Jup 
IMcR Su DKN_ |Cancer 
Virgo 
Libra 
Sun is transiting in Lagna. The Saieie 7 Aspect of ee Saturn on DK - Til 


not satisfied. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon— Moon, transiting 
in Scorpio, has just transited over the natal Moon 
posited in Libra. Libra happens to be the DP 
also. This transiting Moon is in mutual aspect 
with 7L Sun in transit. 


10" June Saturn was transiting in Taurus from 
where it cast its Jaimini aspect on DK Jupiter 
posited in Cancer. 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


11H/L in D9 — MDL and ADL Saturn is the 5L of 
D9. It is aspecting the 11H and 11L Sun. 


Birth Chart D9 Navamsha ‘Marriage From Lagna = 
2 Y) 8 6/7 Su 13-06-1973 
1 As Ke 9 9 As cae a 
1/ Ma fame 
SaR 2X8 MoKe 10X4 — ae <7] 
l Ralu a 
Rig 
3 Ra 7 Mo u 3 SaR ae 
4 6 12 = 
Ju @ Ma MeR Ve leet 
geld - 4 (Ger) i Oe Fay sf Set Wl C1 Seal TaN gfe 
fagerrat aaa aa wt ft 21 ea ae a set The 


1. Ferene wa aa t a at ae 


a 21 ae am a te ot wt) We) 5. 


ame wat a ase a et wae ZI 
2. aan Ay ate HA TIE Gen sae 


aa wa wz, fra aro we adds Tt] 6. 


aca @1 
3. qivaa A fied fears Ben HR TER FB aT 


aig gfe vet ve wi SI gate, ei ae ARS | 7. 


GU Tel SAAT! 
4. arg Beat ul Te a fags Ae, wel a 


am ase S WN Ta W sant Te si) 8. 


TR HT Trea Te geet fra Were TAT 


26 


fas art aqafa @ xt 21 

faare A Fed 10 3a ae oe Uh a aT 
aad we me ges A wens ‘fren faery’ wt ott 
wet < gh FI 

Tent HWP HT WI TS SA TRH adh al 
ast A par aie 4 fer sera yr 
aat od TR HF GT SI TT ZI 

ai 9 Aa tad 2 ve wm aR oe 
TW zl 

aa ate wh fare & waa aa A SR 
wid ae ao ame wd a al ae fre 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arias st Forte Ta 


wifae att free aaa (ua aarfrs gheetor) 
oft wet GT Sa EI 21 


There we wt afire — gies A abax at 
waa aa & A wera van a ys 21 


Ter HA 


anata Ot wheat MH at afte — 10 A 
am aft gua 4 on ai 8 ae ae A ad woes 
SRR Te we St gfe Sea wa 2 

watst A ReTayT a satay AT 


Tea ae oft 1 ate ar een gen flea TR aH | eae aie Waray /TeRTasT S WT — 
water ot A ae aA PHT aT ware wit Fale ar Gee aA sei A ETM 
a ware yt at ta wT ze 
Case study 5 


Bath Chant 28-07-42 18:11:00 


Navamsha =| 


Transit Mariage22.06.1985 


Pocatello. 


Mo Ju Idaho, USA 


22.05.1966 
Ju/Ju/Mo 


Virgo/Aqua 


ie ES i 
wu] as [- Sa FS aR ; 
VS Virgo 
DK Mars 
DKN [Taurus 
e 


Pt_| P2 P3 P4 03 UP |Taurus 
v [iv Vv V v¥_|{DP__ |Leo 
Analysis E US is not aspecting natal Mars. 


Pi MDL and ADL Jupiter is LL posited in 7H 
and Moon is aspected by 7" lord Mercury 
inD1. 

In Chara dasha AD of Aquarius is running 
which is in 1/7 axis of DK Mars. 

Jupiter is not aspecting VS (in Virgo). 
Saturn is aspecting Lagna and Jupiter is 
placed in 7® H also aspecting Lagna. 
Jupiter and Mercury met about 4 months 
back and Piya Milan took place. 


P2 


gerd - 5 

fayerrot 

1 Tee a aden yes ame f an faa 
& jahie ore ys S Ty aa A sat 2 
faa wa a ad eaRR WI aan aT 
aa gy a WER Gite wary 1 wy WE 
aut frase & arpyet ZI 

2. we seen ot ea at, frase was aa A 
RA Are ZI 

3, faare Wea Han A fer 21 walH faa F 


aria sft teu Wa 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao * 


P7 Most of the planets are close to 7" H. 
P8 Jupiter (LL) is in 7" H. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is in 7* 
H on the day of marriage. 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
aspecting DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 1 1H/L 
— MDL/ADL Jupiter aspects 5L Sun of D9, 


wre qe fayat Foo aos yo at em 

4. faa FOR ee ES A aT ea OA 
weary Ta! Sate, Wa A ara ar Ww why 
3 am at teat tet whe a fas ary, 
frat 

5. Se We ved ae ae ak aan qu a 
arma A ary sare sirerer Ft fen fae 
fea am 

6. TER Bl US Fa Aeon Vite BS STAT 
ane a a were a we Zz 


27 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Birth Chart 28-07-42 18:11:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage22.05.1966 far xem for ; 
Ma Sa EE 
fFaare aital2>-05-1966 
fame | ya 


oS aN 


m arr a SRR Ut Tet Vt at afte - fis fer 
8. fears @ Ba TAT Te 3 ae a wear ge | wee coer We Ww A a eS 
aes at ye fea art at aig Sit cite ae ve wet 3 


watet AY weraym a aterdyraet at 
Tier wy at afin - faa & fer aan | daederter sit wares aaa A wee - 


wear wa A et) ar we al gfe var Be oa a We ah 
Case study 6 
Birth Chart 17- al 15:45:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Maniage21 05.1970 


ie Gujranwala, 
MeR =| SuMa] Ve Pakistan 
DOM /21.05.1970 
Vim = |Ju/Mo/Su 
ac E Chara |Lib/Virgo 
jaMe ‘SaR vs Taurus 
DK |Sun 
Ve Ra [ners] Ke} JuR DKN_ |Capricorn 
a |e 02 03 ]jUP Aries 


P5 ey 
Lv v | ae a iP Taurus 


aa posited. The parameter is satisfied. 

Pi In D1, MDL Jupiter aspects 7L Moon from | P3_ VS is posited in Taurus and transiting Jupiter 
Aquarius. However, retrogression of Jupiter is retrograding in Libra so Jupiter is 
means that its aspect is effective from aspecting VS from Virgo leading to this 
Capricorn, which is the Lagna. Thus, MDL parameter getting fulfilled. 
establishes connection with Lagna, 7H and | P4_ Saturn is transiting in Aries and from there 
7L in D1. ADL Moon is the 7L of D1 and it aspects Lagna. Jupiter’s retrogression 
D9.PDL Sun aspects LL Saturn from Virgo means that Lagna receives the fifth aspect 
in D1. In D9, Sun is posited in Lagna with of Jupiter from Virgo. Thus, double transit is 
LL Saturn and aspects 7H. So, this activating Lagna. 
parameter is met. P5 LL Saturn is transiting in Aries and 7L Moon 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and DK Sun is was transiting in Libra a couple a days ago. 


28 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aries at Set wa 


sitfie ait faare oma (ua ayifie gfeator ) 


Thus, marriage was already given a green 
signal in the heavens. Parameter is satisfied. 

P6 Jupiter is transiting in Libra and it does not 
establish any connection with natal Mars, 
which is posited in Leo. Thus, this parameter 
remains unmet. 

P7 Only 3 out of the 9 planets are in/around 
Lagna and 7H. So, this parameter is not 
satisfied. 

P8 7L Moon is transiting in 1 1 H. So does not 
satisfy this parameter. 


Birth Chart 17-09-38 15:45:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


JER Hea 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is the 7L 
and has just come out of mutual aspect with LL 
Saturn in transit. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 
Sun is posited in Virgo and it does not receive 
the Jaimini aspect of transiting Saturn. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — ADL Moon is posited in {1H in 
D9 and it aspects 5H. 


Transit Marriage21.06.1970 


Ra 
44 


LU aoe F Weems Te HA A wax 
AAA VHA UW Wat gfe Stet W Zi aH 
& any fsa wa af wa a ae wa at 
ft gated at te 21 SRI as at 
aster 4 ware 31 wera eg we St-1 
Aan a ae wh al te wet at sai a 
ae ame aft am ara ora A feera Stax Ga 
qa Hl te Wl Sl MAR as S ae AIS 
wt eter 2 

1 aM woe A ade Hen at 2 wet 
aan wa feat 21 

3. go faare wea 21 ale ar We ast gfe 
OHH GBS CAH BI ATS HT POT HT WT 


m1 

479 Gh at wh a a ta we 
vate aHa Hh ART WS A Han a TA Th 
Waal gfe sre ctl ga we et ARR OTT 


5. ae wh Ay ae ok He fer est aaa 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + Arigna aoe Ta 


=a gen A om aa: ae uaa ein 2 fH 
face at wat ad dt wa at ane Zi 
6. Gen A WER AR Tel We Afeen Sra Ht Hse 
q fea dra S ae cere vel an war 2 
yafay ae anes OF] wet BT eT aI 
7. UA aaa S seg Sac 3 ve faa 
ae wd at ad set at or et 21 
8. FAR TaN Be fea ved wH ae Hh et 
@ oa 8 PR Gat 7 ak aes Tt fet a ta 
A Teal 21 
Fert 
Ther wg at often - were dat 
TR A ae wa a gfe was a wi 2 
RTH Ut tree wiht at afte - aan A 
feed errr at wae a wit at ate afia 
ofte vet 21 
warst A wera a arrears aT 
Wan Gane six WHS / Tea A Ara - 
STMT TRA Fa A Va wa A fer 
dex Tay Wa a tg wz 


29 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach} 


Case study 7 
Transit Mariage25.02.2007 


Birth Chart 13-06-75 21:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Pune, 
Maharashtra 


25.02.2007 
Ve/Ju/Sat 
Leo/Can/Lib 


Scorpio 
Gemini 


P41 P2_| PS. | P4 | PS} Pe | P7 | PS o1 02 | 03 
Lv {[ v [ov V viv v Vv Connected| Vv [ ¥ | 
Analysis lords. 
P1 MDL Venus is a natural marriage-giver. | P5 LL Saturn is transiting in 7H and 7L Moonis 


Further, in D1 it is posited in 7H with 7L 
Moon. ADL Jupiter, posited in Pisces, 
aspects 7H and 7L Moon in D1. Thus, a 
working relation is established between the 
MDL and ADL with 7H and 7L in D1. This 
fulfills the parameter. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Cancer, which is where 
DK Venus is posited. Further, Cancer 
receives the aspect of DKN Scorpio leading 
to the fulfilment of this parameter. 

VS falls in Libra and Jupiter is transiting in 
Scorpio. However, till 27° October Jupiter 
was transiting in Libra. Thus, the parameter 
of transiting Jupiter establishing a 
connection with VS gets fulfilled. 

Saturn, the natal LL, is transiting in 7H and 
there it is with natal 7L Moon and aspects 
Lagna, thus establishing connection with 
Lagna, LL, 7H and 7L. Jupiter, transiting in 
Scorpio casts its ninth aspect on 7H where 
7L Moon is posited, thus establishing 
connection with 7H and 7L. So, double 
transit is activating the relevant houses/ 


P2 


P3 


P4 


geri - 7 

fagerrot 

1. Ferrans yp Aafifs fears rer 21 St-1 
Aa aan twee aa HF ae 2 
SRMTY Te At A stat Ta Ta 


30 


transiting in 5H. Moon, was in Aries 2 days 
ago getting aspected by Saturn. The 
parameter will be fulfilled. 


P6 Jupiter is transiting in Scorpio from where it 
aspects natal Venus posited in Cancer. 
Parameter is met. 

P7 G6planets, including Sun, out of the 9 planets 
are in/around Lagna and 7H, fuifilling the 
Parameter. 

P8 LL Saturn is transiting in 7H. Parameter is 
satisfied. 

Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in the sign of Venus, a natural marriage 
giver. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Venus is posited in Cancer, the sign where Satum 
is transiting. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/a 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Venus is 5L and its 
posited in 11H from where it is aspecting 5H. ; 
ADL Jupiter is posited in Aquarius with 1 1L Mars. 


ware al saa 2 ae wd at at art t ; 
2. Ae aM A saree He aH eit sel qa 
ump fea 2 sam giam fie cea 
sais at afte ot 2 
3. fats wen gen 4 @ wate We Giae o 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % apie of aime @ C 


wife sit fears aaa (ua aarhren gfzator ) 


Birth Chart 13-06-75 21:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


OCR 


wt) 38 27 seem ae ae GTA GA oS |o8. A a ae Te OR ES 
4, SAT HT ART A The A a Te SOR WR WR AT tat z 

we we wa GM Ht) gkaw 4 ger | Fert 

Tl Te waa gfe a ae aa sik agi fera Tira ag at fire - aan facet yA 
aera ane Ht Vad ee eet aha H wrel | Ht Uf A a 

wal Ufte Ht eT 21 SRT UF Treat VT at fie - qarESTHt 
5. aA UA BAR ae SR wr Baer | a aoe aw ae Ae wet we ae el 
wan das a ei ad fer ved at aa a wa watet AW WeTay @ aad yr BT 
waa SS wiht at gfte fer gat eit WAR /TAA BT Ua /THIaRT A ATT - 
. ofr FRR ae wel Te det S Setar 4 | see ye Tai A ee é ak 114 wa a 
ae ddd ye at cite tar ga wd a oft | fee diet oo a al Ga ee 21 SIT OR 
wT ZI ea A ware ora FH we zt 
7. Wad 6 Te A A Se ZI 


Case study 8 


Transit Martiage25.02.2007 


Sod 


POX 


an 


Birth Chart 15-08-85 20:00:00 


Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage25.02.2007 


Ongole 
(Andhra 
Pradesh) 


25.02.2007 
Ke/Me/Sat 
Can/Leo 
Aquarius 
Juplet 
[01 [02] 03 ||¥P__ [Cancer | 
| Fambecat STS) — loo — 


[Pi | p2 | p3 | p4 | ps | pe | P7 | Pe | 
4 


Analysis 

P! MODL Ketu is posited in a sign of Venus with 
LL Saturn in D1. Besides the connection of 
LL, the marriage giving tendency gets a 
boost due to the fact that Venus is a natural 
significator of marriage. ADL Mercury is 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  arfgeiz at Sone ta 


posited in Cancer alongwith 7L Sun in D1 
and receives the aspect of LL Saturn. In D9 
Mercury is posited in Capricorn with 7L 
Mars. PDL Saturn is the LL of D1 and it is 
posited in the sign of Venus, a marriage 
giver. So, all the three lords MDL, ADL and 


34 


Case Studies 


ww 


A. 


a] 


5 


Birth Chart 15-08-85 20:00:00 


4 6 
Mo Ma MeR Su 


; 


PDL get connected to the marriage-giving 
planets, satisfying this parameter. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Leo and it receives 
the aspect of DK Jupiter posited in 
Capricorn. The parameter is satisfied. 

VS falls in Aquarius and Jupiter is transiting 
in Scorpio and there is no connection 
between VS and Jupiter. But going back in 
time, we note that Jupiter was transiting in 
Libra till 27" October and from there Jupiter 
would have aspected VS, thus fulfilling this 
Parameter reasonably well. 

Saturn is LL and it is transiting in Cancer 
where natal 7L Sun is posited. Jupiter is 
transiting in Scorpio and from it casts its 
ninth aspect on natal 7L Sun which is 
posited in Cancer. Thus, the parameter of 
double transit is satisfied. 

LL Saturn is transiting in Cancer and 7L Sun 
was transiting in Capricorn till 13 February. 


Navamsha (spouse) 


- 8 


i 


L 


32 


aq era ¢ okt ya at uf A a 
wr & we el seers ga we Hf aT 
ad & ary 21 sa Rate at Ht afte oh 2 
aa A gu ware ane Ha wa A 21 
Wem wha St-1 A aa zt ga ae a 
dat aera fare A aan zi 


mR aan fae at ¢ firs we nat Fas 


SRR We at gfe e1 


. Sfran FSR we Te He A free faare wen 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Thus, natal LL and natal 7L were in mutual 
aspect in transit fulfilling the parameter. 


P6 Natal Mars is posited in Cancer where it 
receives the ninth aspect of Jupiter which is 
transiting in Scorpio. The parameter is met. 

P7 7 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
in/around Lagna and 7H amply fulfilling the 
parameter. 

P8 Natal 7L Sun is transiting in Lagna and the 
parameter is satisfied. 

Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 

transiting in Taurus, sign of natural marriage 


giver Venus. 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK - 


Saturn is. transiting in Cancer and DK Jupiter is 
posited in Capricorn. The two are in 1-7 axis. 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


11H/L in D9 — MDL Ketu is posited in 11H in 
D9. 
Transit Marriage25.02.2007 aa ert fsimta, 
ary weet 


4 


5 


6. 


lone ital alee 


BYR 
Ee. hee 


ean 


faa. 
Th Te Ter A of ak da sed se aes a 
ye fear al 

. OPA Bat UA aS TSR wel S Get TAT 
aan at fer dt sa wi wR ofan i 
Trae Te at vam oft at ti ga me ae 
Ta at ered got ett 21 

ag ail ae A abet He wer Sait aay 
wa 13 eat cee Fa A om aa AY wae 
dar wt Rat aK a 

ae aa at ga Hee A a a a 
ae 421 a given A RK eS Te aT aa 


a ols weary at aa wer 21 APA 27 sTaRTT afte fret wt 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ aries sit aoe t 


vaifre ait fee wae ( qar Sarin gheaior ) 


2. wa wo Fa eae aR a 
FT Wea sa TGS a GU aI i 


Tes ser 


anrena Ut Trae wt at gfe - vax 
fea Satin at arrare ye sit wer fee araz 


8, ae eat as a a he eee ore ea) an wf 1/7 aa eI 


ateeéei 
Fritarar 


watet W meray a stare yma wT 
War /aGaag ait CHa / CHa A OT - 


Theat ag at yf - fears saree Bw | Heresy Hg Tare A 11a ara F fer 21 


a ug gay aaa fered 21 


Case study 9 


Birth Chart 31-12-65 60:30:00 Nevamsha (spouse) 


P1 MDL Mercury is LL and ADL Saturn is placed 
in Lagna of D9. Ket is placed with LL 
Mercury in DI. 

P2 AD Aquarius is aspected by DKN. 

P3 Jupiter is transiting over VS in Capricorn. 

P4 Sat(R) Is aspecting lagna through retro 
aspect. Jupiter is aspecting lagna. 

Jupiter and Mer(R) are in 1/7 axis showing 
Piya Milan. 
Jupiter is transiting over natal Mars showing 


qert - 9 

fayercot 

1. Fes qu an é safes adore as 
R Sea We Hl vay afte 21 aq a a 
me gaa wa AS aT Sa a als eT 
gfe ve wa 21 ota: ae cere faeneart zi 

2a eM oy a wae A aes Wee a 
SPAR BA WC STIS SSN Fare Peay 
at afte 21 


Guide Shri KN. Rao  riceta at Fete wa 


Transit Marriage_03.07.1985 


DP 

fulfilment of the parameter. 
P7 Planets are scattered therefore parameter is 

not fulfilled. 
P8& This parameter is not fulfilled. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
aspecting DK Jupiter on the day of Marriage. 

Aspect of Saturnon DK — Saturn is 
aspecting DK through retro aspect. 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
— Saturn ADL is 11L of D9. 


3. fare wen Ha 4 fora 2 ae faa H aH 
ye wet A et am 

4. fase & ana gen feed awl afi 4 fied Ha 
4am Sh wa Ta oe afte seit wat A 
TR Fl Set We AA Hac om, afew 
waar wade TE Bt AT wants fara ga 
ae 8 cau are sei ary ata 21 

5. CPA Fe Ten SATA YS A STAA-aEA twat 
fern fret a fer @ 


33 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 31-12-65 00:30:00 _ 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
Transit Marriage_03.07.1985 


Ke SaR 
7 


6. frare Baa Thee Te Fe A on wel Saree! fattaror 


tine feta 21 

7. Gel Fe ARS A At ct ahs fare + 
fea wd wa aa Aa a ae 
arama Bs Fel saa A 

8. 3a Hse Fae arags At ay Ae Bt a TT 
3 aie wate a ate a ae A Ham: 
om a aaa aa al wafea Fel frm 


a [>a 


Tre weg at after - TT ge wa A aT 
ak SRR Te WK saat she aft 
aR ut wrear wit at afi - an 
ferq Ther & apt wits 4 fied aa a fae fend 
saree aoa We at wnfaa fen 
wast A wera a aay aT 
Wan /teter sit Weare Tae S ATT - 


area wi Ast aT terest 31 


Case study 10 


Birth Chart 18-06-58 14:46:00 Transit Marriage_13.06.1989 


Navamsha (spouse) 


POB |Hammond, 


13.06.1989 
Sat/Jup 
Pisc/Virgo _| 
Sagitarius 


SaR Ra Ve SaR un 
P1 P2 P3 | Pp4 | P5 | P6 | P7 | P8 o1 02 | 03 Aries 
Y WW Wh x ~x |v |] tH WW DP _|Pisces 
Analysis lord are together. 
P1 MDL Saturn is placed in 7 H of D9 and | P6 Jupiter is not aspecting natal Mars. 


ADL Jupiter is 7” lord of D1 posited in Lagna 
in Di & D9. 

Vir(AD) of Chara dasha is aspected by 
DK(Sun) from Gemini. 

Jupiter has already influence VS while 
transiting through Aries. 

Saturn and jupiter both aspecting Lagna. 
This shows fulfilment of the parameter. 
Piya Milan has taken place as LL and 7" 


P2 


P3 


P4 


PS 


34 


Planets are scattered in the horoscope. 
Therefore Parameter is not applicable. 
Mercury was in 7" house around two 
months back, showing fulfilment of the 
parameter. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon ~— Moon is in 
lagna on the day of marriage. 
Aspect of Saturn on DK ~— Saturn is 


P8 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ Arie st Sor 7 


vatfinr aft fers aaa (ua aarhrar ghezator) 


aspecting DK. 
PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 


Bath Chart 18-08-58 14:46:00 


x 

get - 10 

fayeraut ; 
1. Ferns wa wai F wars wa A feed Z, 
vate seer Te waa Beat oH Fe 
aa: sa Ten A fare Bt yar Ha at 
2. Sam at fears diva at at een Y ae 
Sarl HA Bee aa at Ufa Se Ten aT 
wa a ge 8) aadera Sen WH eee 
a an afte 21 

3, faare weH Uy Ui ae wate fears aa 
Te gay 4 a) wa ae awl ee ca fred wa 
@ set 44 Ui wt tem 

4, frame B aa gaa Twat ye A aA wa 
wa ye al ge fea wis ay 2 wei a 
Se A Ua TAT FT SUT! 

5. faqs Hh AT AMT Gy Te GAA TS UH 
aa guy 4 war fren fae ee FI 

6. ae WIS FY Feet Fay wi a we 


Navamsha (spouse) 


gers Mera 


| — MDL Saturn Is 5L of D9 aspecting ADL Jupiter. 


NN | 


Fer wa 0 | 


waite ar I We Sater Ata wl et 
aT Tt ze 

7. 4 Mt sa Rect F any wat a a 21 Hil 
sa a aka a oa afer ve aa 
aaa HW 2) 

8. WA A TST MT IN set et wet =e 
at al 


Tre weg at yfirer - faa @ ya wat 
a a fer 21 

Sirens Ut Tira sift sat afte - face + 
aaa uta wa oon wel a Set arerara wa aT 
all 

watst WY Waray a atta yaar | 
TAA / GAT BT TTA / TTA A ATT - 
vat 4 rea wi dads ¢ den sees 
Te Var aa al ge Hew 


Case study I! 


Analysis 

Pi In Df, MDL Venus is receiving the third 
aspect of LL Saturn posited in a Venetian 
sign. ADL Ketu is posited with Venus in 
Cancer in D9 and Venus is a natural marriage 
giver. PDL Mars is posited Pisces in D1 and 
it aspects 7L Sun posited in Gemini. Thus, 
the parameter is fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is Capricorn and it receives 
the aspect of DK Saturn posited in Taurus. 


P2 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ Brie at Fert Ta 


The parameter is met. 

VS falls in Cancer and Jupiter is transiting in 
Leo. Jupiter was transiting in Cancer till 14" 
September, thus satisfying the parameter. 

Saturn is natal LL. It is transiting in Pisces 
from where it aspects natal LL (Satur). 
Considering the retrogression of transiting 
Saturn, the Lagna and 7H also get 
connected. Jupiter is transiting in Leo, the 
natal 7H and from there it aspects Lagna. 


P3 


Pa 


35 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 28-06-41 22:45:00 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
Transit Marriage 18.11.1867 


Amritsar, 
Punjab 


18.11.1967 


Ve/Ke/Ma 


K Sat 


KN = |Capricorn 
[P _[Virgo 
P 


Aries 


me 


Thus, the parameter is met. 

Transiting Saturn (natal LL) is retrograding 
in Pisces so its aspects are effective from 
Aquarius. Natal 7L Sun is transiting in 
Scorpio. Thus, transiting 7L Sun receives 
the tenth aspect of transiting LL Saturn from 
Aquarius, establishing a working 
relationship between LL and 7L in transit. 
The parameter is satisfied. 

Jupiter is transiting in Leo and natal Venus 
is posited in Cancer. As noted for Parameter 
3 above, Jupiter was transiting in Cancer till 
14" September, thus leading to the 
fulfilment of this parameter. 

P7 Only 3, out of the 9, planets are transiting | 11H/L in 


PS 


P6 


Birth Chart 28-06-41 22:45:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


in/around Lagna and 7H and the parameter 
remains unfulfilled. 

Neither natal LL Saturn is transiting in 7H 
nor the natal 7L Sun is transiting in Lagna, 
leaving this parameter unmet. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in its exaltation sign Taurus. This is a 
Venetian sign and Venus is a natural marriage 
giver. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK, 
the natal Saturn posited in Taurus, does not get 
connected with the transiting Saturn in Pisces. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 ~ In D9, MDL Venus is the 11L. 


Transit Mesriags_18.41.1987 SA Tay | |S, 


es 
ee Sx EE 


aoa 
1. amaAseht F Hee YR KW aA ei Bt 
ada gfe 3 dt aden fq Fai A Ha 
ae Aye S aye t) yee Ane 
SH Aa a2 ah fees F feos wart 
Ue afte wreret FT aS aH PT ae Te 21 


36 


KGICE 
fearere area} §-11-1967 
Ritcaes 
uhanixe 


a raed 
lar 
aos 
[har 
q. lak 
2. aden wat ale fre we gay A ay 
errr eh 4 gfe creer at aria 
Yer ath 
3. fate Ten He At wale area ar ye fee 
Hai 14 faa am oom A ted wa ye a 
ware o ttpia 2 ae ay 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao 


ane aft Sete Ta 


witfita ait fears ana (ue aarfre gicaior) 
4. CA Bent wT Hts S Te HS EE TT 


at al teat 2) dhe S SRT eA AT 
wae a ot were aa fee A are a 


yer ser 

waa 
8. TR Aa at ame wh ae 2? sk aS 
aa ad oH 21 gate aet ae WS 


Te A aa Sd et aa wf afte ah aft yg set dat 21 

5. TR A aR MET aca SH SRT HA aS ot | Pte 
afte War a tel 21 aa at gira 4 zi Tre wg at yfirer - aa the A art 
vofem ae A ad at afr at site fre a | sea fe gaa a3 at fH fared ym st uit 
ae Ares yor es ca 


. Up a fae a ate 2 al aH (Gea Geet) 
oH Aa ah waa fea om 14 faa ae 
mH A tt ted Ta Te Fe ARS FI TW HT 
camo 


a 


arene ot Ter vit at afte - aT aT 
aera wit gay at fa woe a wy 
(Hm) at aig Stina ¢fe ae 2 

warst WY neray a atadyrarea aT 


1.998 hae 3 06 fre & fet ae a ae | Gender ait carer UHTavT SB AT - 
oh ANAT i FI HM Bs AMIS YH Nt Vt | SMTA Yow Aa Al Uae e al sATTTA 
aq sae aa dz 
Case study 12 


Birth Chart 16-11-61 22:25:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_21.06.1992 


Dehradun 
21.06.1992 
Sat/Ve/Ke 


Cap/Gemini 
Scorpio 


As Ma Ke 


Sun 
Cancer 


3 
P1 | P2 P3 P4 PS P6 P7 P8 O41 02 | 03 | [UP Aqua 
viv [iv Vv V x v Vv Connected | ¥ | Vv | |DP  |Capri 
Analysis P3__ VS falls in Scorpio and Jupiter is transiting in 
Pi MDL Saturn is the natal 7L and it is posited Leo. Parameter is not met. 


in 7H also, thus connecting Lagna, 7H and 
7L. In D9, Saturn is posited in its own sign 
Capricorn and aspects the Lagna. ADL 
Venus is posited in its own sign Libra in D1 
and there it receives the tenth aspect of 7L 
Saturn. In D9 Venus is LL. PDL Ketu is 
posited in 7H of D1 with 7! Saturn. In D9, 
Ketu is posited with 7L Mars in Virgo. Thus, 
the parameter is fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is Gemini. In D9 it receives 
the aspect of 7L Mars. The parameter is 
met. 


P2 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & Ariaa at See Ta 


P4 Saturn is transiting in natal 7H with natal 7L 
and is aspecting Lagna. Jupiter, transiting 
in Leo, aspects natal LL Moon posited in 
Aquarius. Thus, the parameter is met. 

LL Moon and 7L Saturn were transiting 
together in Capricorn the previous day, thus 
leading to the fulfilment of this parameter. 
Jupiter is transiting in Leo and fails to 
establish any connection with natal Venus 
which is posited in Libra. This parameter is 
not met. 

8 planets, including Sun, are transiting in/ 


PS 


P7 


37 


Case Studies 


around Lagna and 7H, leading to the 
fulfilment of this parameter. 
P8 LL Moon was transiting in 7H on the 
previous day. The parameter is satisfied. 
Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon was 
transiting in 7H with natal 7L the previous day & 
is now in the 8H. 


Birth Chart 16-11-61 22:25:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach) 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK - 


Saturn, transiting in Capricorn, receives Jaimini 


aspect of DK Sun posited in Scorpio. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL Saturn is the 5L of D9 and 
itis in mutual aspect with 11L Sun. ADL Venus is 
posited in 5H. 


Transit Marriage_21.06.1992 


1. Fees Bit aT ctet aa A St feet 
a wae Fo ae at a uit wee A fer 
set wa a teal 8 aa YR AA 
asc 4 ant ue gn a é ak va RK 
eer afl at gfe daar A ye ara 21 
Waren hg St-1 FA aaa A ae 
S aa 2 wath vag 8 ae aaa a S 
Se ee ee 
ee 

2. me arden fet St 21 aan AF ae Aer 
art gfe tne aqua & wt 21 

3. face eH set Gfrae ae wafer ara aI Te 
fete Fd ae aes Fel ye Aet Sa 

4. TR or Uh SAT H AAT A WSK Wel S Tet 
at ot ferd 21 fee @ ER SEA aes 
Ode aaa aria aa a sft tat sa 
args al gol far 

5. we fea ved & ae ae a ae alt 


38 


#3 


6. TR I TS (ed & ore qe ae 
See one! es F 
\ 
7. Fa Wat 8 Te aT a ae & EPR eH 
amt wenfa @ @ 21 
8. fet ae at ae SR HT A AT op 
Tat a 
Frrtterat 
Treat ug at after - face a um fe 
Ued tt aa waasel & A-aeT He 
STAR Ut That vif at afte - afey 
Aad epee wt Waa A aha al a 
Sfiet sf 21 
water Y aeTayt a amavis a 
UA /TaAT Se WATS / UTA A ATE - 
FERIA wi aa sr Gaa S sik THT 
aa a afte fate 21 aera ye TAA aa ge 
fea 21 fa 


Pp 


P5 


1. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arexit ait tou + Guid 


site ait feats waa (Ue daifre gfzate) 


Jet FeRR 


Case study 13 


Bath Chart 07-04-54 05:00:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage _’ [ 02.1980 


Make | Me Ve ih iy POB [Kolkata 
18.02.1980 
~ vs lvim_ | Ra/Me/Sat 


Ra JuR 
MaR 


DK 
DKW [Taras 


ur _[cenins | 
3 [or 


PA P3 P6 Pr he fy 
¥ ae eH a 1k Seer 
Analysis fulfilment of this Lae 
Pi MDL Rahu, besides being an unconditional | P6 Natal Venus, posited in Aries, receives the 
marriage giver, is posited in the Lagna of ninth aspect of transiting Jupiter from Leo. 
D9.ADL Mercury is the 7L of D1 and in D9 The parameter is met. 
it is conjunct with Venus, another marriage | P7 All the nine planets are transiting in/around 
giver and, 7L. PDL Saturn is retrograde and Lagna and 7H, leading to the fulfilment of 
is effective from 7H in D1. Thus, this this parameter. 
parameter is met. P8 LL Jupiter is transiting near 7H and on 27" 
P2. Chara Dasha AD is Leois in 1-7 axis with 7L September, i.e. within 8 months of 
Mercury, thus satisfying the parameter. marriage, it will transit in Virgo which is the 
P3 VS, posited in Aries, receives the ninth natal 7H. 7L Mercury is transiting in 12H 
aspect of Jupiter transiting in Leo. Parameter and on 10" April, i.e. in less than 2 months, 
is met. it will transit in Pisces, the natal Lagna. 
P4 Saturn is transiting in 7H and thus it is However at this time the parameter is not 
influencing 7H and Lagna. Further, its met. 
tetrogression means that it is aspecting the | Observations 
natal LL Jupiter as well as natal 7L Mercury. Role of transiting Moon —Moon is 
Jupiter is LL and it is transiting in Leo from | transiting in Lagna, influencing both Lagna and 
where it is aspecting the natal 7L Mercury. | 7H. 
Thus, double transit is activating the Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 
marriage related houses and planets. Mars, posited in Sagittarius, receives the Jaimini 
P5 LL Jupiter is transiting in Leo and 7L Mercury | aspect of Saturn which is transiting in Virgo. 
is transiting in Aquarius. Thus, both these PAC of MDL/ADL with S5SH/L and/or 
planets are in mutual aspect, leading to the | 11H/L in D9 — In D9, ADL Mercury is the 11L. 
Wert - 13 a) amt aerate agafa 21 
fayerrot 2 ® aad fae at 2 ot eee qu a 1/7 
L ag eh B Hea FeeMIAY UE TAM H aH BI 
awa dal 2) Seen ge St-1 sr ae | 3. fee Fo thee ae ee Te A A F fen fear 
¢ a wa F oat yw S ue cto F Wem WH gfe Sere Ba ATS Hl YT fra 
aad) WaRR way wit gat? sik ge] 4. aa aR we a oe ato wad ae 
a WES B AA ara St yeast Tt aa WH S ERT a aan ye a 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arigsia st Fog wa 


39 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 07-04-54 05:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


eae gu at sf wena ae wer 21 Trae HT 
Te fee Fe wei a ae ae a te STZ 
wa we 8 at ae gel 4 faa 8 waren 
sal A Beary Tare art eatepfa ct 

5. Ae Te a aha fas F ak aaa qu aT 
ea a 31 dt waa Zi 

6. STATS ar A A 2 fire wR Te FT 
ghe sree Fa wees el st yor fear 

1. we & Gage & wa facts F fea ait 9 
Te FS (Aa) & exe ST at TE Ah 

8. UAT Te ea Ta S TGs aK Se Ss 
dhe 27 fare Gas San A wm ot iw 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach) 


Transit Marriage_18.02.1980 


aan nat) aaa qu at od aa at 

ak 2 me 4 10 ate 8 a A a & 

made freer ar] set dit 2 
Frttert 

Thar wg at afer - aa am aa 4 
TSR AT VET TA A at tt wena ae aT a 

antenna Ut That gift at gfe - aye 
ferd Chara Aa KR Ha dK we wh a 
fit site 31 

warst A wera a aaidyrena @ 
UAH /UAAT SIT WHER / Wea A Wa - 
SARITY FY a THT 2 


Case study 14 


Birth Chart 07-03-76 00:18:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_17.04.2003 


Analysis 


Pt MDL Rah is unconditional marriage giver 


and ADL jupiter & 7L Mars of D9, are in 


Rahu/Ket axis. Jupiter (ADL) is in 7° H of | P5 


D9. 

AD of Capricorn is running in chara dasha 
which is not aspected by DK Mars. 

Jupiter is aspecting VS (Pisces) showing the 


P2 


P3 


40 


POB |Faridabad 
DOM |17,04.2003 
Vim = |Ra/Ju/Ju 
Chara |Gem/Cap 
VS Pisces 
DK |Mars 
DKN Libra _| 
Aries 
Virgo 


parameter is true for this case. 

Saturn is transiting over LL Mars and Jupite 
is aspecting Lagna. 

Piya Milan has already taken place fes 
months back. 

Jupiter is aspecting Venus as this horoscop 
is of male native. This parameter is fulfilled 
Most of the planets are close to 7" H an 


P4 


PG 


P7 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao > anieia oft aac i 


vatfrm aitt faare ara (ua aati gheator ) 


Moon is close to Lagna. 
P8 This parameter is not fulfilled. 
Observations 


ransiting over DKN and about to enter lagna. 


Birth Chart 07-03-76 00:16:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Fe sey 


Aspect of Saturn on DK ~ Saturn is 
transiting over DK Mars. 
PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 1 1H/L 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is | — DL Jupiter, MDL Rahu are posited with 11L 


Sun and aspected by 5L Saturn. 


Transit Marriage_17.04.2003 


1. Ig Us Ue wt aft FT age F fee 3 
set Uae Ae wt gfe ot di at vai A 
wae Fd aaa ye qa Yaa 7 
foam grax foarte at A aam 21 

2. RK SMM Tet Ht S fare We are Ane 
a ata feet saa at afte set 21 

3. facts Ten Ui 4 fed 2 wate frase S aa 
We Aaa s wa gfe a sa ge fra 

4, fons oh a we ATR at ye A das 
gfe 8 a an aaa ge feral ais fase 
@ aaa faya A oom ge ah ast ed aa 
fred wa @ 3 aa ae ae aT oad 
fram 

5, fans B GT AMS Ane FH A ae TAT 
Ue Fi 4 4) aa: Qe ae ved Ae A ag 


UT S ae at gfe Sax fen fier fren emi 
7. wa Sed S: Te Te A oA We a a S 
area ZI 
8. ae WS ee Esc A ay ae a ww, 
Rie OT We ATT aa SB A TTA YF 
am 4 faae 8 Tet ves et TST 


Ther ag at yfirer — trex F oa sea 
crea A are Tae wR fea 2 

aE Ut Thee vif at gfte - fae F 
we ht Fae UP A on Set aA Ae feta 


a 

water HY Weray a sere yrrarer aT 
FAA/TSAT BT WREI/ THT A WaT - 
Aa A Wee UE HR Va wll at efte 2 
Te wR At dade aft et gfe 31 wares at er 
dai & are feta 21 


Case study 15 


Analysis 

Pi MDL Jupiter is LL, ADL Moon is with 7® 
lord Mercury and PDL Venus is Karka for 
marriage. 

Aquarius is AD in Chara dasha which is in 
1/7 axis of DKN. 

Jupiter is aspecting VS (Aries) from Leo 
through 9" aspect. 

Saturn is aspecting 7" H where as Jupiter is 


P2 


P3 


P4 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % anfesia at cou. wa 


aspecting lagna. 

Piya Milan has taken place a few months 
ago. 

Jupiter is aspecting natal Venus through 
retro aspect. 

Most of the planets are close to lagna or 7" 
H. 

Mercury has transited through lagna few 
days back. 


P5 


P6 


P7 


41 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Birth Chart 05-02-54 04:45:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_02.02.1980 


Delhi 
02.02.1980 
Ju/Mo/Ve 
Chara |Leo/Aqua 
VS [Aries 
DK [Mars 
Leo 
UP Scorpio 
[DP libra | 


Observations aspecting DK Mars. 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
transiting over DKN (Leo) and is with LL Jupiter. | — PDL Venus is in 1 1L of D9 and posited with 5L 
Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is! Mars. . 


Birth Chart 05-02-54 04:45:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_02.02.1980 


_ waraSet HT aA We Fair Aa FZ, 


wate SRR GR AGT AT he 
gia ara 4 feed @1 ark ys faa aT 
Safi orn 2 a ag a ge ZI 


at araréen HS aa SaaS Aa 
. faare Fen 49 uf a 2 faa Ho We 


fae 44, wel @ oe aaa fe F faa 
wen wt eM 


gfe @ am aan aan gfe S aA qe aT 


. Fe es St Heel 21 fares FH aya We aa 
dan fae 8 4, cafe sarin Ue Asc a 
Tat H di ae: We 4 fied a A art 

Ue al ge fea 


7. AP We AM S Pa FH a 


HI 


8. fare & fer aA gu Hat A WERT 7 


df ae fea ved wa FS sent Sat 
mes al WT fee 


. fare & are We fee Fo wei @ Se dae | Frterct 


Treat we at after - fae F TAT Ta 


2a wht fas & aaa HT Ue A aw a 

a: HN S SRA TAH wa wl sik swt eA 

HS ann fro wa 8 ae ye al ge feat! 
5, faare @ TAA Te oat Bat fee Fa sats 

AAT FI Ha Ae) ord: We A sat Bl & | site er 21 

aro fise wa a qu wl ge Heh frar-frers wait A wees a aadyrarer a 


42 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ares ot fou 


Fay aa A RHR AAT We Tl 

SRA Wet wi at aie - HT A 
Trae at ter Vis san fears MatHeA CATH 
ane &% aft ofte set Sra war 2 ata creed 


vattre sit faare ara (qa daha ghzator ) 


TAH /GAUST Bit UH / THT S ATT - 
SARITA UF WHT Sent Aare aw feta aa 


Case study 16 


Birth Chart 04-10-63 00:40:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Te eR 


[Feeasen stag 


Transit Mariage _20.02.1988 


01 02 


P4 | P5 
x V 


P7_| P8 
Vv xX 


03 
Connected v 


Analysis 


Pt 


P2 


P3 


m4 


MDL Venus is a natural significator for 
marriage. Further, it receives the aspect of 
LL Moon and retrograde 7L Saturn in Di. 
In D9, Venus is posited with 7L Saturn and 
is in mutual aspect with LL Moon. In D1, 
ADL Jupiter is posited in Pisces with LL 
Moon and receives the aspect of 7L Saturn. 
In D9, Jupiter is posited in 7H. PDL Saturn is 
7L of both D1 and D9 and is posited in own 
7H. Further, in D9 Saturn, posited in Leo, is 
in mutual aspect with LL Moon. So, the 
parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha AD Sagittarius receives the 
aspect of DK Sun posited in Virgo. Thus, 
the parameter is fulfilled. 

VS, falling in Capricorn, does not get 
connected to Jupiter transiting in Aries, 
therefore, this parameter remains 
unsatisfied. 

Saturn is transiting in Sagittarius and Jupiter 
is transiting in Aries. These two in transit do 
not establish connection with any of the 
natal Lagna, LL (Moon), 7H and 7L (Saturn). 


qerdt - 16 
fayerrat 
1. Fe YR TR aA as a aaa & 


PRT WA Bet st ot gies era UE V1 aa 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ Arg at ao Te 


PS 


P8 


Thus, this parameter also remains unfulfilled. 
LL Moon in transiting in Pisces and 7L Satum 
is transiting in Sagittarius. However, the 
previous day Moon was in Aquarius where 
it received the third aspect of Saturn. Thus, 
the parameter is met. 

Natal Mars posited in Libra receives the 
aspect of Jupiter transiting in Aries, leading 
to the fulfilment of this parameter. 

6 planets, including Sun, out of the 9 planets 
are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is satisfied. 

LL Moon was transiting in 7H on 17™ 
February, thus satisfying this parameter. 


Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 


transiting over natal Moon. 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


Sun is posited in Virgo and it receives the Jaimini 
aspect of Saturn which is transiting in Sagittarius. 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


11H/L in D9 — MDL Venus is the | IL of D9. 
ADL Jupiter is aspecting 11H. 


A ae ate wh & aa t at oe aR a 
qe gfe ware aq wt 21 de A fee 
SARUM TS AA H a S faa wR ATT 
at afte 31 sale A at cK ame aaeH at ot 


43 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Birth Chart Nw 00:40:00 Navamsha ai, net erase 20.02.1988 A ST TAT 
fares aa |20-02-1988 
fait = jaye 

KOC DKS pat Pate, 
Tl. 
i a - $n << >: , 


afte 21 7. aa waa 6 we faa S fa am sik aS 
2m aad wy ate fra w am A as area at 
ara wt a gfe seat wa wi at So ean Se a 
fra ; 
3. Tent feed faare wen KR H Ye (Aa A) Fetter 


al tals cite al WS OT aI 21 Ter wg at after - ae a asc 
4. wet @et TR a fags che ft ret amet | Stara aS GS SR TI 
a SRE Ut thet wt eat afte - eR 


5. AAe TS TER A 4 2 ot aes a oes Ray te ate Ul Ht 
aad ium fe ved aan wa Sa 4A a | Stet sft 2 


aa se wrt at afte fei oft aon @ chews ee 
6. Ta A fer aaarcia ara we Ae A abe | dem deier ait Wereer/ Taras Bae - 
a TS YS A afte Sterat Ah FSIS Yaw AST HT WaT S at sear 
Te wared wa al tad 2 
Case study 17 
Birth Chart 08-09-69 21:15:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_09.10.1991 


Me POB [Delhi 


DOM |09.10.1991 
Vim |Ke/Sat/Sat 
Chara |Can/Leo 


VS Pisces 
DKN_ |Leo 
UP {Pisces 
DP {Aries 
Analysis P4 Jupiter is aspecting lagna and Saturn is 
P1 MDL Ket is being aspected by LL Mercury aspecting 7" H. 
of D9. ADL and PDL Saturn is in lagna of | P5 Piya Milan has taken place around five 
Di. months back. 
P2 AD Leo is running in Chara dasha which | P6 Jupiter has already influenced natal Mars 
has DKN and is aspected by DK (Saturn) while transiting through Cancer. 
P3 Jupiter is not aspecting VS (Pisces ) P7 Most of the planets are close to 7" H. 


44 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arfesia at toute Ta 


vitae site faare were (was darhter gfecator ) 


P8 Mars (LL) is in the 
Observation 

Role of transiti 
transiting over 7" H. 


Birth Chart 08-09-69 21:15: 20 


7° H. 


ng Moon — Moon is 


Navamsha moons 


pera sey 


Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
aspecting DK. 
PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
~ Saturn ___ | Satu (ADL & PDL) is 5L of D9. 


rq tart |feeeit 


ransit Marriage_09,10.1991 


L. Pe au 


09-10-1991 


<P 


(faa. iu 

(eT. ear. lente 

<9: uaa fie 
kaa pat 

SuMe kine as, 


4 ym & me fer 2 a 


5. faare 8 |e Ae ved AAT Ae a Ao 
se 4 fren fre at arqafa & tet 
6. a Ae Yee Hee A wed oe at ae A St 


wet ar AT ge al 


34 tg WI U1 RESCH 


Fares a ara A dt feera clan faare 


al aqafa ¢ wer 21 
2. a sateen fae A a 


® area wi at 


aR Fag feta 21 Sa 


af st 21 


3, foare a aH fae 


HIS We Ht faa 


wits at ga Qsct A serena woe a 

aay oft a eft 
7. faa & fer aa Sad 4 Te A SH STAT 
8. faare & fe A AT ae a a ST 
Frttarcr 

Tree wg ait afirer - fare & fi at 


Wen WR gfe wel 31 cas 3 We ved He A | ea Ta A om 


wa waa an feed 
wrett eft ; 


faqs Wea RR aA gfe 


4, fas F fered thee S We A a at ait wae 
STR a WS MA Se S A 
aa H gfe saa tet whe S fas WAH /TART BT UTR TAIT A AT - 


at ony, feat 


Bith Chart 31-03-65 04:56:00 


areata Ut treat wht at afte - vax 
fer TER aoe waters cere wit at 
Sfirt sfte & genfea sel awe cet 2 

warst W wala a amide at 


arama wrt zat a dase 21 


Case study 18 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_07.07.1992 


DOM 07.07.1992 


Vim {Sa/Ra/Ra 


Chara] Tau/Scorpia 


ala 


eo 


vs Aquarius 
DK Jupiter 


DKN [Capricorn 


— 


_— 
P2 | P3 | P4 | P5 | Pe | P7 | PB O1 02 | 03 | [UP |Pisces 
7 | v v v ¥ ¥ y¥ [x ¥ [|v J [DP {Libra 
Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ anfesit ot qoute wa 45 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach] 
Analysis transit and its aspect is effective from 
P1 MDL Saturn is the LL of Di and it is placed Sagittarius. Natal 7L Sun, transiting in 


in Lagna. Satur is the LL of D9 as well and 
there it aspects the 7L Sun. ADL and PDL 
Rahu, a marriage giving planet, is posited 


Gemini, is in mutual aspect with transiting 
Saturn, leading to the fulfilment of this 
parameter. 


in the sign of Venus in D1, another marriage | P6 Jupiter is transiting in Leo, the sign where 
giving planet. The parameter is met. natal Mars is posited. Thus, the parameter 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Scorpio receives the is met. 
aspect of DKN Capricorn. Further, Scorpio | P7 Here 4 out of 9 planets are transiting in/ 
is in 1-7 axis with DK Jupiter. So, the around Lagna and 7H. Thus, this parameter 
parameter is satisfied. is met. 

P3_ VS posited in Aquarius receives the aspect | P8 Neither LL Saturn is transiting in 7H nor is 
of Jupiter transiting in Leo, thus satisfying 7L Sun transiting in Lagna, so this parametei 
the parameter. remains unfulfilled. 

P4 Saturn is the natal LL and it aspecting the | Observations 
natal 7L Sun from its transit sign Capricorn. Role of transiting Moon — Moon i 
Considering the retrogression, transiting | transiting in Virgo, the natal 8H. 

Saturn is aspecting the Lagna as well as the Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ Di 
natal LL Saturn. Jupiter is transiting in 7H | Jupiter, posited in Taurus, receives the Jaimini 
and it aspects Lagna and natal LL Saturn | aspect of Saturn, transiting in Capricorn. 

posited in Lagna. Thus, this parameter is PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/o 
applicable. 11H/L in D9 ~ in D9, MDL Saturn is posited 

P5__LL Saturn is retrograding in Capricorn in 


with 5L Mercury. ADL Rahu is in mutual aspec 
swith 11L jupiter. 
Neon? Chart 31-03- ar, 04:56:00 Navamsha Nee 


plete 

1 Wa Reet ar aA SR Tere VW 
ama 4 at dard) at sain ar ft aero 4. 
ak vai F uate at Hl tad zg a a 
FARR WMT UE (APA Sag) YH at Uist 7 
feoa diet fare A were 21 

2. 7H oe gfe at ¢ faa Ww ae 
qait wax at gfe d1 aes We aT 
gitar v7 aa we ot fer 2 


Transit Matriage_07.07.1992 


POX 


3. By A fee foare wen We fae A aR aT 
qe at gfe di ga Te a ae ands Hy P2 
aa 2 

aa wt HHT A Wat Hed ET AAA F 

wR gfe Te wl 81 aH F ST fred + 
ad dt vet am as a aay al at wae 
UT BI Te Trae A aa Ts A GR Ti py 
ak am a of ad ame ats at cite a 
GR TER H AGS St HT HT WT 2 

5. ae wa eR A oat ala he SRT yy 


- untexia aft dopp1 Guid 


46 Guide Shri K.N. Rao + 


stfia sit fore aaa (ua darPre gheator ) 


6. 


1. 


8. 


fon ot aaa @ ak aa am fry A hee aT 
aa wo ae-ae 21 

Ye ar The file Fe wet Sarnia AT aT 
ae ud ot at edt 2 

9494 ve Tee AY aya &@ sx fiz 
wR Safa 2 < z 

Tat ate aft aaah aik 7 a aT 


a wt Te oa Ta Te 1 ae Pras et aT 


wel eta 21 


Ta ser 


Fritet 
Treat wg eat apftenr - aT ar TR eT 
Ae at fe aeq qa 2 
SRTaRe Ut Treat wis at gfe - guy Fy 
Read Sree TS TR OM Ht Saat site 


rl 

watet W weray @ arardyrarer aT 
WHA /TAAT BT URE / CHEST I AT - 
Terra wa date ga b oe td) sere 


TE THe We a afte wae aT ws 2 


Case study 19 


Birth Chart 16-05-29 23:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage _’ | 12.1965 


POB /Guntur 

[Dom [14.12.1955 _| 
Vim  |Mo/Mo/Me 
Chara |Leo/Scor 

vs [aries | 
DK Jupiter 

DKN |Capricorn 
[uP [Libra 


Ve 
As 
Ju Su 
me 1 “ pes az 
O01 


DP Virgo 


BY — He 


P5 
V 
Analysis 
Pi MDL and ADL Moon is the 7L of D1 and it 


P2 
P3 


| P4 


receives the aspect of LL Saturn which, 
being retrograde, is effective from Scorpio. 
In D9, Moon receives the aspect of LL Saturn 
as well as 7L Sun. PDL Mercury which is 
retrograde is posited in Taurus in D1 and it 
receives the aspect of LL Saturn. In D9, 
Mercury is posited in 7H. The parameter is 
satisfied. 

Chara Dasha AD rashi Scorpio is in f-7 axis 
with DK Jupiter and is aspected by Capricorn 
—the DKN. So, this parameter is met. 

VS in Aries receives the ninth aspect of 
transiting Jupiter from Leo, leading to the 
fulfilment of this parameter. 

The transiting Saturn is aspecting the Lagna. 
Jupiter is transiting in Leo from where it 
aspects the natal LL Saturn. Thus, the 
parameter is fulfilled. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao “> SPR at ue Ta 


P5 LL Saturn and 7L Moon were transiting 
together in Scorpio a few days ago, thus 
fulfilling this parameter. 

P6 Natal Venus, posited in Pisces, received 
Jupiter's ninth aspect when Jupiter was 
transiting in Cancer till September end, thus 
satisfying this parameter. 

P7 4 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna and 7H. Thus, this parameter is 
satisfactorily met. 

P8 7L Moon will transit in Lagna in a couple of 
days, leading to the fulfilment of this 
Parameter. However at this time the 
Parameter is not met. 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon, which is 
the 7L, is transiting over natal LL. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Scorpio and DK Jupiter is 


posited in Taurus. These two are in 1-7 axis. 


47 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or | mutual aspect with 11L Jupiter. 
11H/L in D9 ~In D9, MDL and ADL Moon is in 


Birth Chart 16-05-29 23:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


SaR 
9 


VALS 
6. Fes wae Hl Ase Hr ys A A fers? 


yer - 
fargerrot fra fare sit ce He A wet ws eA 
1. Fal F SRMIMTA VHA CA Set HT TAA gfe steft eft 
2 ok va RW ae at al aenft F aR] 7.994 TRS oe Ha & alin ZI 
gfe 3) qa Fas al ae AS aera | 8. aes St a oe ER Ae 
aa wt at ot afte urea 1 guy a fea @, Aiea face ct ae wren ory wet a 
Te wns qe was Fares at aa BA wr al 
(at) at gfe st 21 aa A aes oa A) Pte 
feaa dat gy sit faare at aqufa 3 wat 1 Tee we at afer - tet a a 
2. Raat dae ot ¢ fred as A aes seared F ee aa S aR SA ERT 
Te 2 dl Sa W AWaERe Aa Fat aH sf | 21 
af 3 ana UF tar wht at gfe - gayi 
3. Hy fera feats wea a fee A abe Ht We | fers cas Te SG aa gira A are aT ah 
at estate gfe 31 a 
4. eR & Ua at gfe a We 1 TR AE aT water A aerayt a adver Fl 
gfe ag ult & a1 DAU /TAAT BT Cay / TTT A ACTA - 
5. TAT Us aaa as He fer vet St UH HRIRT  SHIERT HA TRAN Ie THER Fe 
me gira A wed aaa ga ed at ye ae ee | farsa ax te 2 


2 Case study 20 
Analysis with LL Saturn. Thus, the parameter is 
P{ MDL Mercury is posited in Virgo in D1 and satisfied. 
there it is in mutual aspect with not only 7L | P2 Chara Dasha AD is Aries and it isin 1-7 axis 
Moon but also LL Saturn (considering with DK Sun. Further, DKN and DP posited 
Saturn’s retrogression). In D9, Mercury is in Scorpio aspect Aries, leading to the 
the 7L. ADL Saturn is the LL of Df and fulfilment of this parameter. 
being retrograde, it is effective from Pisces | P3__ VS is in Pisces and Jupiter is transiting in 
where 7L Moon is posited. In D9 Saturn is Libra. Till 12" October Jupiter was transiting 
posited with 7L Mercury. PDL Moon is the in Virgo and from there it was aspecting 
7L of D1 and, as mentioned, it is connected VS. The parameter is met. 


48 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ortega st more & 


wiftre oitt faerg waa (ua daha gfeator ) 


Birth Chart 23-10-69 13:22:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


gerd sey 


Transit Marriage_09.12.1993 


wpe | ps {pa} ee | ep ee | Pe [01 | 02 | 03 | 


POB |Delhi 
DOM /09.12.1993 


Connected | _ Vv 


P4 Saturn, transiting in Aquarius, and Jupiter, 
transiting in Libra, are aspecting natal LL 
Saturn posited in Aries. Thus, this parameter 
is satisfied. 

P5 LL Saturn is transiting in Aquarius and 7L 
Moon is transiting in Libra. 4~5 days earlier 
Moon, transiting in Leo, was in mutual 
aspect with Saturn, thus fulfilling this 
parameter. 

P6 Till 12° October Jupiter was transiting in 

Virgo where natal Venus is posited, thus 

satisfying the parameter. 

P7- Only 1 planet is transiting in/around Lagna 


Birth Chart 23-10-69 13:22:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


and 7H leaving this parameter unmet. 
P8 7L Moonis posited in 10 H. Parameter not 

met. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon, transiting 
in Libra, is in mutual aspect with the natal LL 
Saturn. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK —-D K 
Sun is posited in Libra and it receives the Jaimini 
aspect of Saturn which is transiting in Aquarius. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Mercury and ADL 
Saturn are posited in 5H. Saturn is the 11L. 


Transit Marriage_09.12.1993 


1. Hen A fered AeA AT We AAT TT 
a aay wt dat at gfe 21 aig A qu ea 
wae 21 ocena we St-1 ar ama é 
ak apa F aro ga ait S ot te aad F 
wel ware aan feet 21 aie A at wera 
gym ay 31 WER WIM TS A 
eset ar aaa stat aT Ui a wafad 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + anfeyis at aor wa 


2. aan Fy at fae a A aH 
ad 2) ofven A crag a ane aaigr ah 
BH SR Few sat Set she ot 2 

3. faate wen He Ae safe We a Tet yen 
21 12 Sa ah HT A ted GH We A we 
wR of Serene ae THAT ct att 

4. TRR 4 or ay a ak ae ger Awe we 
Ae a fer aarti wh Ww gfe serene 


49 


Case Studies 


atet Thee at ad cet 3 we eI 

5. 5 fr ted Ta aaa aM fee A an da ae 
ea A aha at oe Uf a waa oT 
an Fa aes at ol A eT aT 

6. Fhe 12 See Tee eT A ye a hee on set 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Frtent 


Wer ws at afer - gen ake aw 


Ta serait oer wit ae sfte Set TT Fi 


ane Ut Wet wit at afte - 


wi 
fad cea ot 1 BT SSK AN aR 


serait yan feed 31 at Sint afte 2 
7. Waa & es-fig Haan ww ye 2 fad wary A wea a arava a 
ae was Yo aet aa WAN /TSAGT BAT Weare eT / WATT BATT - 
8. wea aa cad ara AS frees wes ya) at ea ga o wit vai A dam ae as Fi 
wet ater vita qaie ar were 21 
Case study 21 


Birth Chart 19-01-39 12:30:00 Navamsha = 


Transit Mariage_27.05.1956 


ie nee POB |Salem 
ii [DOM {27.05.1956 | 
Vim = |Mo/Ju/Ju 
|] |Chara]Gem/Virgo 
0 Hlys [Gemini 
DK Mais 
ed al DKN [Cancer 


Pi _[ p2 | pa | pa | Ps Pe 


ie 03 | UP Capri 


Sa As Ke | 
Ju Su 
Su Ju iz 
Me Mo } Ma Ve Ra Ve Sa Mo Ke 
uh 
a 
+2 


+ eee Vv vy {DP |Sagi 


Analysis 

Pt MD Lord Moon is the LL of D9. AD and PD 
Lord Jupiter receives the aspect of LL of D1 
Mars in D1. This marriage-giving propensity 
of Jupiter gets strengthened by Jupiter being 
in mutual exchange with 7L (Saturn) in D9. 
Parameter is fulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and it receives the 
aspect of Dara Pada, which is in Sagittarius. 
Parameter is satisfied. 

P3 Jupiter is transiting in Leo whereas VS falls 
in Gemini. Thus transiting Jupiter has no 
connection with VS and the parameter 
remains unfulfilled. 

P4 Saturn is transiting in Scorpio and there it is 
conjoint with natal LL (Mars) and natal 7L 
(Venus). Jupiter is transiting in Leo and from 
there it aspects only Lagna. However, 
Jupiter has just entered Leo, till 22"* May 
Jupiter was transiting in Cancer and from 
there it would have aspected both natal LL 


50 


PS 


P7 


and natal 7L posited in Scorpio. Thus; 
Double Transit of Saturn and Jupiter activate 
both - LL and 7L. 

At the time of marriage, LL Mars is transiting 
in Aquarius and 7L Venus is transiting it 
Gemini. However, in the last week o 
February 1956, Venus was transiting in 
Pisces where it was receiving the fourth 
aspect of Mars, which was transiting it 
Sagittarius. Thus, a working relationship Ly 
established between the LL and 7L in transit 
Jupiter is transiting in Leo but till 22"* Ma 
Jupiter was transiting in Cancer and both. 
natal Mars and natal Venus — are posited it 
Scorpio and would have received the aspea 
of transiting Jupiter. So, the parameter i 
fulfilled without considering the sex of the 
native. 

5 planets, including Sun, out of 9 planet 
are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. So 
this parameter is fulfilled. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao « aries st tou o 


vinfa atte ferns enva (wer aarPray gfteeior ) 


P8 LL Mars is transiting in Aquarius and is not 


in or around 7H. 7L Venus is transiting in 
Gemini and is not in or around Lagna. So, 
this parameter is not met. 
Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Sagittarius. It is aspecting 7L Venus 
which is transiting in Gemini. Further, Moon has 
just come out of RK Axis. 


FE HV 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Scorpio where DK Mars is 
posited, 

PAC of MDL/ADL with SH/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Moon is being 
aspected by 5L Mars. ADL Jupiter is placed in 
7H where it is mutual aspect with 5L Mars. jupiter 
aspects 11H. 


Bith Chart 19-01-39 12:30:00 


fagerror 

1. FRM aan Aa aT AMF sie 
VR GIANG Je RK west SB ag 
Tne Fl ofte #1 qa F ae A we whe 
WR Fee ze 

2. we A sarten t wen al, fora we 4a at 
gfe @ set fe crag fer 21 


Navamsha (spouse) 


hones 


DOK 


Trans Maniage_27,05.1956 


6.22 TE TH HH FH wed waa TS EF 
ford TF ATG a ww ci WH site 
aa ate He At st, Te a yt eats 


Wad 5 We a aan Se fit ZI 
aan aa Ba Fa OF AIT 
wan a ae at fhe Fees S Se ae 
wp ora a ee 21 ae mde gol aet alan 


1 


8. 


3. faare wen fags A é wafer cree at ye fae | frttarer 


2) Ft SRM Fe as oN] wet Aidt z 

4. of Gira a Tie a TEI @ Get TTT 
aa wie a were ye feed 21 fee 4 
Tet at 2 ae a gfe Faq am | 2) 
Aiea ora F fae A ae ye 4 22 FE TH BSH 
Fed Waa A a ASA Sa WT aR STE 
ah sa me a cea thee ari ae ET eI 

5, fare & aR a Ana aa A a aa 


rat wy et after - aa st Mat ag A 
2 oot fm foe 8 alee He aaa UH al ea 
wl 2) ae atta we-sq F aa a ae 
arn #1 

areata Ut Trae we at afte - wit a 
Tet given At wei ears aoe fess @ 

waist W wera a aids wT 
Waa /GAT BHT WHAT /TRET A TT - 


ye fags 8 on tet feerfa A sat ae were | gen feed wererne aaa Gea He a sfte 
aa aan 2) Afar mat ios6 @ offa) 2 ae we 4B aa ware a a ta ee at 
ae 4 dy a wa aaa ue a dee Ft) ate na Soy soe ete fafa et 2 
aad afte faa wt oti ata as 4a AF om 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % ave st Some Ta 51 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Case = 22 


Birth Chart 05-04-68 09:25:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_22.5.1989 


Ea POB |Bhagalpur 
Ea (Bihar) 
DOM |22.05.1989 
== Vim |Ju/Ve/Ra 
Chara |Aries/Aries 
vs Pisces 
DK = |Venus 
KN 
P2 P3 et P5 P6 P7 01 02 | 03 | [YP__|Aries 
mae viv v y 7H | v | v_| [DP __|virgo 


Analysis 

Pi MDL Jupiter is posited in Leo in D1. Its 
retrogression means that it is effective from 
Cancer from where it is in mutual aspect 
with 7L Mars. Jupiter is the 7L of D9. ADL 
Venus is the LL of D1 and it is a significator 
of marriage. PDL Rahu, besides being a 
natural marriage giver, is conjunct with the 
LL Venus. In D9 Rahu is being aspected by 
LL Mercury. Thus, this parameter is 
applicable. 

Chara Dasha AD is Aries, the sign of UP, 
leading to the fulfilment of this parameter. 
Jupiter, transiting in Taurus fails to connect 
to VS falling in Pisces. This parameter is not 
met. 

Transiting Saturn is retrograde in Sagittarius. 
It affects the natal Lagna and 7H since it is 
effective from Scorpio. Jupiter is transiting 
in Taurus, the natal Lagna, and thus it 
aspects 7H. Double transit approves the 
marriage. 

Natal LL Venus is transiting in Taurus and 
natal 7L Mars is transiting in Gemini. These 
two were in mutual aspect in the third week 


Bert -22 
fageraat 


1. TRIAS We A Heel F fas Ft sik awt 
ah FoR HH Y aa ana a gfe 
fafraa 21 sais A ae wm A 2) areas 
Us face ar arn SA & sera WEE Aseit 


P2 


P3 


P4 


P5 


52 


of November 1988 when Venus was 
transiting in Virgo and Mars was transiting 
in Pisces. Thus, the parameter is satisfied 
reasonably well. 

In the third week of January transiting Jupiter 
was retrograde in Taurus and therefore it 
was effective from Aries where natal Mars 
is posited. The parameter is fulfilled. 

7 planets, including Sun, are transiting in/ 
around Lagna and 7H, attesting to the 
satisfaction of this parameter. 

LL Mars was transiting in Taurus, the natal 
Lagna, in the mid of April, leading to the 
fulfilment of this parameter. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in the 7H. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~Satum 
is transiting in Sagittarius. DK Venus, posited in 
Pisces, receives the Jaimini aspect of transiting 
Saturn. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, ADL Venus is posited in 
11H where it is in mutual aspect with both — 5L 
Saturn and 11L Moon. 


P7 


A ote 81 WRK SIT We Ba A UE 
e aa 3 a aie A oe ana at Ta H 
ae ga ae o ae tat We wee oy aa 
| 

2. seen Aa att hfe Saag ete 

3. gas AF ares qe da a ue eS fears wa 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arfexia ft See 


ifte ait fears waa Cue aah gfeator) 


Bith Chart 05-04-68 09:25:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_22.5.1989 


Mo 
3 


at wafad vet eT TET eI 

4. Th or aot MPT aq A 1 awa S SR aE 
am ak aa del at ast seit A yaad 
ea ae 
i 

5, WAS Ue a TR gas 4 8 wate Sra 
wate He sr Tea fayr A B aA 1988 
# det ware A sa ye eT aR ae FA 
Hom, we wan gi a Sew ah 
seh ge ares Al YT fear am 

6. WAR BS det wae A Gas A ae HT WE 
Set a aa ae AS H wsfad He et a Tet 
sree Ane Ferd 21 

7. 9a Bisa 7 Te CTH S sa aa Sia 


Fa. 

aR Fa aes St YF erst 3 we A 
8. ae aa A wate ana gan A a ot fH 

eel a ae aa ae torn WH eet 
Frtteror 

Tet wg at afer - aH wa Aa A 
TAT FAL TET BI 

area Ut ret wht at afte - wht aT 
TR aq 8 21 fem aoa Up at Shirt 
faa Oo oft at ofe fat et a 

warst WY WeTay a stead yarel aT 
TAU BT WHET / RTT BF TTT - 
aera yar aa S 11a aa A sal 2 an sa 
ate ula st sie fra wi 2) re RM 
oft saat eR gfe fata 21 


Case study 23 


Birth Chart 16-11-74 05:05:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_25.01.2000 


Delhi 


Pi pre | ps | pe | ps {pe fer fre | | ot 
v V v Vv x v x x 


25.01.2000 
Ve/Ra/Ve 
Aries/Tau 
Taurus 


Scorpio 
Aries 


Connected 


Analysis 
P1 MDL and PDL Venus is the LL of D1.In D9 
Venus, posited in Cancer, is aspected by 7L 


Mercury. ADL Rahu is a natural marriage | P2 


giver and in D1 it is posited in Scorpio with 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + orieit af au a 


another marriage giver Venus. In D9 Rahu 
is posited in Lagna. Thus, the parameter is 
satisfied. 

Chara Dasha AD is Taurus which is aspectecdt 
by DKN Cancer. The parameter is met. 


53 


Case Studies 


P3 Jupiter transiting in Aries does not get 
connected to VS falling in Taurus, But the 
marriage of this native was fixed four years 
ago when transiting Jupiter aspected VS. 
Thus, this parameter may be taken as 
fulfilled. 

Saturn and Jupiter both are transiting in 
Aries, the natal 7H and they influence 
Lagna, 7L Mars and 7H. Thus the parameter 
is satisfied. 

LL Venus is transiting in Sagittarius and 7L 
Mars is transiting in Aquarius. Thus, this 
parameter is not met. 

Jupiter, transiting in Aries, aspect the natal 
Mars posited in Libra, Siac Big alata to the 
fulfilment of this ppt ans 

Sm 16-41- xy 05:05:00 


P4 


fet 

1. Ue Fe WIA Berg & ct REC 
al ama ttt zai Y ae ae Ff fer 2 
ak ea R wate gy wt gfe 3) sears 
Te Ig @ ak warRSe A ae a 
ra 3 at aati Fo FF fea 21 cist cenit 
pene eens a 
cca’ 

2m ae gay we fra K ae fer 
apres Tai wt afte 2 

3. Aa A he ee TE A way gay fed 
facts en F sel Si tel 21 fea ae fora 4 
od cect da Sa A da ye HI TEA Te Gite 
pin 

4. a a We Sa ar tree ay A 2 ot fH Ascii 
ar aaa aa 21 a aa SR a Ant aI 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Sctentific Approach} 


Only 3 out of planets are transiting in/ 
around Lagna and 7H leaving this parameter 
unsatisfied. 

Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Mars Is transiting in Lagna. This parameter 
remains unfulfilled. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is 
transiting in Virgo. A couple of days ago it was 
aspecting transiting 7L Mars from Leo. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Aries and it casts its Jaimini 
aspect on DK Venus posited in Scorpio. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Venus is the 11L. 


P8 


Transit ay 01.2000 


LN NEE 
5. SAE Up HR ay at ate net He 

Adi ae ads die we a el ow 2 
6. AT AI WR TS Gen fers Spe ATH 

gfe cre we Fa HS HI yfte Hy TT ZI 
7. BAG 3 We wa Sa SH TE 

wa we 8 ae tom aa et seem 2 
8.7 AA UP aaa Ta Hak Aa 

A WT Hl A WT TR TE 
Patter 

Treat ag at aftent - wer A TR aR 
aan @ fea ved fas a aaae dna at caw 
am 

anna oF iret wiht at afte - He fer 
Tre ar eta ofa fer Serres ens 
wp Wt aftr gfe cre ver éI 

waiy HW WETey a sere yrater a 


Guide Shri KN. Reo  Hnfevia at ae a 


wifes site fore ara ( gar darhre gfteater ) 


Fe eT 


WaT / Tee Bie WHAT SB Ua - | MSI YEH AST AT WHAT 21 


Case study 24 


Birth Chart 05-02-54 13:20:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_21.10.1985 


JuR As 


POB | Samastipur 


DOM 


p1 [| P2 [| P3 [| P4 | P5 | P6 


Cyr>vylv[vfyvlv 


ar sleaee 


v 


| 03 | 
[Lv | 


Analysis 

P1 The person got married in Vimshottri Dasha 
of Saturn/Venus/Satrun. Venus is the LL and 
also karak for marriage. In D9 Satrun aspects 
LL of DO and is aspected by Venus. 

P2 Chara Dasha at the time of marriage was 
Sagittarius/Taurus. Taurus is 7" from Dara 
Karak Mars. 

P3 Vivah Saham is in Leo. Jupiter is in Capricorn 
and some time back it was in Sagittarius 
and it had aspected Vivah Saham. 

P4 Saturn is transiting 7" house and thereby 
activating both the Lagna and 7H. Jupiter 
in in the 9H and is aspecting Lagna. 

P5 At the time of marriage LL Venus and the 
7L Mars are transiting together in the 5H in 
Virgo. 


Fert - 24 

fagerrot 

L wee a feos wlygaah 4 gem Ue 
warEset A a 21 wh aa a ge 
wer 21 tain A wht a fears & IH WH 
at gfe e 

2m ote gay ue a aaa A cere 
airet ford 21 

3, faare wen fete ofa A fers @, wafer faare 
H OAT Ye Tat A has A |e AA Teel 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ aniea st aur wa 


P6 This is a male horoscope and at the time of 
marriage Saturn is transiting in Capricorn 
where natal Venus is posited. 

It is noted that Sun and three other planets 
are transiting near 7H. 

In this chart neither LL is near 7H nor is 7L 
near Lagna and therefore this parameter is 
not satisfied. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is in the 
9H with Jupiter and is aspected by Saturn from 
the 7H. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK —Satrun 
in transit is in Scorpio where Dara Karak Mars is 
posited in D1. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9 it is posited in Aquarius 
and aspects Venus. 


P7 


We a vq A wed waa wen at ge feat at 
4. UR oT RR Ga Re a ae HT Ge gfe 
am Ral 
5. faae FH aaa AMT YR a ae AT 
wa MF HM Ut AF MT ay 
6. Fe FRI Taw st Gsett 31 fare H TAA TE 
Fat uf A a wet serait yw oft feet 21 
7. We aed UR Te WA a F Te feed Z 
8. we AS Fa Hee Foy A awe 
waite faa 8 ot tet aT wa at a 


55 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Birth Chart 05-02-54 13:20:00 Navamsha (spouse) ‘Transit Marriage_21.10.1985 Sr ee RTT 
Ra (farer) 
3 1 [ferare aretha 21-10-1985 
fart = aye 
rae ry gt 
Al pare 
& ‘i [aaa fee 
[3.7 Freya 
an ava 


oer 
| 
Friterot 


ara wis afeaen Uf A en set Serene aT 
ane feta 21 


warst A wera @ aaeyrre 


Tire as cht afte - san fears S aaa | Weedeater sit Urea /UHaseT A Tare - 
waa aa do aaa oe a ST Teena wh aa A cade ¢ a YR TH 
SRT Ut treat wiht at gfe - fears & | saat afte z1 
Case study 25 
Birth Chart 20-11-64 07:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage _’ [ 06.1987 
Su Mi 
He MeRa,. stu a POB |Kanpur 
DOM |19.06.1987 
Vim |Ra/Sat/Me 
Chara jVir/Scorpio 
JuR Sa cn | Ve As SaR 
FS | et O14 02 03 = 
aaa | Connected 
Analysis not only 7H but also natal LL Mars. Taking 
P1 MDL Rahu is posited in 7H in D1. ADL Saturn’s retrogression into account, it was 


Saturn is being aspected by LL Mars in D1. 
Saturn is posited in Lagna in D9. PDL 
Mercury is posited in Lagna in D1 and 
receives the aspect of LL Mars in D9. Thus 
this parameter is met. 

Chara Anter Dasha is Scorpio. The parameter 
is not met. 

Till 2° February, Jupiter was transiting in 
Aquarius. 

Saturn is transiting in Lagna and aspecting | P6 


P5 


influencing natal 7L Venus as well. jupiter is 
transiting in Aries from where it is aspecting 
both ~ natal LL Mars and natal 7L Venus. 
Thus the parameter is met. 

Till 10° June, 1986, i.e., a little more than a 
year before marriage, LL Mars was transiting 
in Sagittarius and it was in mutual aspect 
with 7L Venus transiting in Gemini. 
However, the parameter is not met. 
Jupiter transiting in Aries is in mutual aspect 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * artes? si howe TH 


vats aft fears wee (ues darren gear) 


with natal Venus, leading to the fulfilment 
of this parameter. 

P7 Gplanets, including Sun, out of the 9 planets 
are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is satisfied. 

P8 LL Mars was transiting in Taurus, the natal 

“7H, till 11 May thus satisfying the 
parameter. 

Observations 
Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is 


Birth Chart 20-11-64 07:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Fer se 


transiting in Pisces, in RK Axis. The transiting 
Moon is being aspected by natal LL Mars. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Scorpio. However, because 
of its retrogression, Saturn is effective from Libra 
and thus influences DK Venus which is posited 
there. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Rahu is posited in 
11H. : 


Transit Mariage_19.06.1987 fra er fa TR 


1, Ferra wg St Hae aa Ae ai 
aes Br wR a Ane at gfe Zz) 
wr Tag S a A 2) TARR GI ga 
(2-1 4) ae a2 a cae Fe RT 
Aiea HY afte 21 

2 adn giraw st t ak dah a ae fix 
aa daar 


s SaR G 


A 
8 
Mo 


12 oe 

Ra 3 

Za fons 
wa-ads site fafa Tet AE TET oT Aft 
Anes at ae adt SRT 

6. Te ar eS AG ett Yeu ect F wae 
Up al ae afte cat ga aes at oot we 
wr MN 

7. Wi waa 9 AS 6 We a aT ae & ee fR 
q| 

8.11 Fe Te AA Ae a Thee a a 
gaa a em 


3.2 Tet aH WS ay Hl gonfaa He xe on, | Preteror 


wet faare wen feera 21 

4. We We Ofeae SB aha ae I UA a Har 
Ta We, Siew wre UM Ae aT ot 
aa we ol amt gfe oh Kae ToT YR aT 
WF wis a wt) AT a TR wT TB 
waar aa art ak ae ae ct 
al dt werfad at tel 21 Sa ME F slew ahax 
wot ory eter 21 

5. WH at Teel 10 FA 1986 ae aM Aa Y 
a4 wa ae fe fer cee a a 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + Sri ot aout ta 


Tree we at afer - de toe ad 
a Sa Vea Ba WS) eH aA ATG 
ay afte 21 

ERTS Ut Meat wiht at afte - aa a 
wi give Fake a we @, cfr aa F 
any frsd aa gen a ad serene Ye SY Se 
wataa fear ot fe det aerere 21 

wars A AETayT a aaa yA aT 
Wa /Taagt ait Une / Taras A WT - 
TERIA WE 114 wa HT 2) 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 10-10-53 20:00:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Today Marriage-21.11.1979 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


a ee 
Vv Vv Vv Vv v Vv v Vv Vv 


POB |Charata 
DOM }21.11.1979 
Vim = |Sat/Ma/Ra 
Chara |Sag/Tau 


vs 


Capricorn 
Jupiter 
Libra 
Sagi 
Taurus 


Case study 26 


Analysis 


Pi 


P2 


P3 


pa 


PS 


Birth Chart 10-10-53 20:00:00 


MDL Saturn is aspecting 7" H of D9. ADL 
Mars is also aspecting 7° H of D1. PDL Rah 
is in Lagna of D9. 

Taurus (AD) was running in Chara dasha. 
Taurus has Dara Pada and is aspected by 
DKN. 

Jupiter has already activated VS from Cancer. 
Saturn is aspecting 7" H where as Jupiter is 
with 7" L Mars. 

Piya Milan has taken place few months back. 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Wert - 26 
fageramt 
1. Tae 4 Ferra wi ae Beat a A 


da é ak get Bae a OS TT AT TS 


mt Tl BAT Tae Bart aa FH toa 
31 FeRR wT We aa Fa A 1 ata: 
ae am faars & fare orga <a ett 


2. TR Teen ay Ui A ane feed @ sik 3a 


58 


P6 


P7 


P8 


Jupiter is aspecting natal Venus fulfilling the 
parameter. 

Four planets Sun, Mer, Moon, and Venus 
are in 7" H. 

LL Venus is in 7" H. 


Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 7* 


H on the day of marriage. 


Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn aspect 


on DK Jupiter. 


PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 


— ADL Mars is posited with 11L Jupiter and PDL 
Rahu is being aspected by 11L Jupiter. 


Transit Today Marriage-21.11.1979. 5-5 teqq [eran 
fears arhal2i-11-1979 
fetta 
[ yaa 
faa. wae 
[eLanT. cd 
La. late 
(3.4. ey 
ra. ge 

WR Bah wae Ht sit site V1 
3. foares Wen Fat HS wales fra + aT 


fae uf 4 om face 8 AS aaa Ved Hat 
ted ara frost ora d ser fare wen Fi 
gw frat 


4. face & wa ye fee A om waRse 


ART UR ae waa Ae fees A et feed 
fare & waa wi wen A a oe ad wa 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ apie ait Beer F 


wits site fears wna (war aarfr gheaier) 
aay aa at drat gfe a 


5. faoe & a aT Up giran uf A ae 
aaa area fie Fadi tet A agel cf a 


TR YR al ge fat 


6. ae BSett Yes sic st SI fears H aaa fae 


Ufa Fe on wet TEST S Up 33 ZI 


7. foare @ aaa Tie wh a afsa UK ve aa 


aa FY fera 21 


8. faas WAT TAT BH WA wa A st 


FA MARS Fl WT Ht WET ZI 


Ferd aeTT 


Ter wg St after - fears F ora aa 
aaa aa A em 

SRT Ut Thee VIP wt afte - fare aH 
aaa wa men Ut A ara on, wet & ser 
SRR Te Ht Sf gfe ch 

watet WH AETayT @ ater yer aT 
TAA /GAAM BT WHER / THIS SB ATT - 
TITAN ATE FAT BH UHV We H Aa ad 
21 TERR GIG UE Fa FB Ta qa Fs Ta 
a3 @ ak Unree ye at fe ot 


Case study 27 
Birth Chart_ 27-04-65 09:15:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_01.12.1991 
Me SuVe | JuRa As Ju Mo Sa As Ke [Pos [Ambala | 
DOM /01.12.1991 
Mo Sa Ra Su 
Vim = |Sat/Su/Sat 
a Kis ia ea hi Chara |Pisc/Cancer 
vs Aries 
Ke es As Ve ra | MASUT ve 1 mg [DK [Jupiter 
Mek DKN |Pisces 
P41 P2 | P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 | o1 02 | 03 ||UP [Pisces 
v v |v V v v v ¥_| [Connected| V [| Vv |Ipp [Libra 
Analysis marriage. 


Pi MDL and PDL Saturn is posited in 5H in D9 
and it aspects 7H. ADL Sun is posited in 
Aries in Df with natural marriage giver 
Venus. In D9, Sun is posited in Cancer where 
its receives the fifth aspect of LL Jupiter. 
Thus, the parameter is satisfied. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Cancer where it is 
aspected by DK Jupiter is posited. The 
parameter is met. 

P3 Jupiter transiting in Leo aspects VS in Aries, 
thus leading to fulfilment of this parameter. 

P4_ Saturn is transiting in Capricorn from where 
it casts its third aspect on natal LL Mercury 
posited in Pisces. Further, this transiting 
Saturn receives the ninth aspect of natal 7L 
Jupiter posited in Taurus. Jupiter transiting 
in Leo casts its fifth aspect on natal 7H 
Sagittarius. Thus, double transit clears the 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao * aria at aut wa 


P5_ Transit of both - LL Mercury and 7L Jupiter - 
in Leo till 24" September is a harbinger of 
the impending marriage. 
Jupiter transiting in Leo casts its ninth aspect 
on natal Venus posited in Aries. The 
parameter is fulfilled. 
5 planets, including Sun, are transiting in/ 
around Lagna and 7H, leading to the 
satisfaction of this parameter, 
Till the previous day LL Mercury was 
retrograding in Sagittarius, the natal 7H and 
it will transit in 7H from 7" January, thus 
meeting the parameter. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Virgo from where it aspects natal LL 
Mercury posited in Pisces. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


P7 


59 


Case Studies 

Jupiter is posited in Taurus and it receives the 

Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in Capricorn. 
PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


Birth Chart 27-04-65 09:15:00 
JuRa 


Navamsha (spouse) 


4 2 
8 10 
Ke 
aS - 27 
fagersur 


1. FSM F TR eT BY aa we a 
wa He) aaa a a ase Fay A 
faare & tafife orem BS ae gaa a 
oe 4 fra gd at ame ye at tan gfe 
fier tet 1 

2. TR aR Hh BS fas arHRH Ye SaHT 
aa fan al any a I et 

3. fae A abe et wer We 5 fee face wen 
WH fe Seat aot seta & ter 21 

4. Tat Wore at tel WA Ae fees ae ge 
UR Gala efez era wer @ al ead sa Gu feed 


wraria were ye at of faa wi 2/2 


TIER al ye fee Fat aa oe ey aT 
da at tat ae or fra ay ae ST 21 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach) 


11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Saturn is posited in 
5H and it aspects 11H. 


Transit Marriage_01.12.1991 


Sa 

aT Te a AR a ae ae frea-fier Ban 

6. fae fea Tie ye 4 AS fer Saree Ye 
(aea ascit) w gfe crerat Fa AIRS aI 
wet Se 

7. Wa Wa 5 ve sh TAT] STE aT 
aan art eipfa te 21 

8. Un fer ted ae AT gy oy a oat aT at 
fe wan wa 21 

Patter 
Ther wg at yfirer - en AR a GT 

aan am fet saree ame ga at ta 21 
SNe UT Wheat Bt ait gfe — ERs 

Te aa Ft fe whe So af at Sint afk 

} 


Warst A WeTay a@ aa yarer wr 
UAH /GAAG BT UTE / UES A MTT - 


5. 24 fore ve fae FT ae ga a ae WE | Here wh das FS ak vaRed a al 2a 


WI zl 


Case study 28 


Birth Chart 19-12-48 05:10:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage_23.02.1980 


Ajmer 
23.02.1980 
Ke/Su/Su 
Gem/Tau 
Cancer 


Sun 
Taurus 


01 | 02 | 03 Sagi 


7H Taurus 


Tv fv 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ariegit st owte Ta 


vatfte ait fees ara (ua dah gheator) 


Analysis 

Pi MDL Ket is with 7" L of D9. ADL and PDL 
Sun is with LL Mars in D1. 

P2. AD Taurus was running in Chara Dasha. 
Taurus has DKN placed in it. 

P3_ Jupiter is aspecting VS through retro aspect 
from Leo. 

P4 Saturn is aspecting lagna, and Jupiter is 
aspecting LL Mars. 

P5 Piya Milan has taken place a month ago. 


Birth Chart 19-12-48 05:10:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Me Ju Mi Ke 


8 7 
10 Ve As 6 


Er ae 


P6 Jupiter is aspecting natal Venus through 
retro aspect. 
P7_ This parameter is not fulfilled. 
P8_ This parameter is also not valid for this case. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 7" 
H on the day of marriage. 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn does not 
aspect on DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
— Not connected. 


aTaaT 
23-02-1980 
Pe, 

aaa 


Transit Marriage_23.02.1980 


L FEIT By W Aa A ware a at 
gfe & aaa wt am esel 4 oe 
ae & ae é dt aan A ae waa ae ZI 

2m oe gay A aan sai fer 2 
at: ae am frase & fee saqat ee ei 

3, frare wen Hea A fea t fare H GH TS 
apt stax fae od oa: aet SAS aro 
frat ora @ faare wen W sft Stet 

4, faore BH WHA We ant went fae F ahaa 
qi aa: frst wa Aye A a Wa aM 
ae at tay afte tem faa & way 

aa A 


5. facts VAs Te WT ast Blt fee FF 
wate Ys HM Uist Al sta: Are A steer sfte 
a ue al gee fran 

6. FS TRI Wa Hl Heel 1 fee A hee ae 
@ ast Tea fred aa a Wares Uw aT 
aaa gfe ct 

7. Fe Wes FH Beet WK fH at som zI 

8. ae aS Ht a set Ble 2 

Fritenr 


Treat ws cat fear - wan ae Fe 

anteater Ut wire stht eat afte - aera 
wi whe ata at gfe aa a 

waist W meray a ade at 


Trees Ft) aft A) Werder sit WHreeT/ Terrase A BRET - 


dead gfe 8 art cen aa at se fear! | cerned a aa aH 5/11 Ha a a wary ae 


A Wel 


Case study 29 


Analysis 
Pi MDL Rahu isin mutual aspect with 7L Saturn 
in DO. ADL Sun is posited with 7L Jupiter in 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arigeia off Aout wa 


D1. Sun is the LL of D9. PDL Venus, besides 
being a significator for marriage, is conjunct 
with 7L Jupiter in D1. Venus is posited in 


61 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Birth Chart 01-02-74. 22:48:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_24.11.2007 
POB jPauri- 
Ma Ke SaR || Mo Uttarakhand 
DOM |24.11.2007 
Vim |Ra/Sun/Ve 
Chara |Pis/Leo 
VS Saggitarius 
[DK |Merc | 
DKN [Scorpio 
Pes tes er ee 03 | [UP_ [Gemini 
Vv Connected | ¥ Vv DP {Scorpio 


P4 


P5 


P6 


7H of D9. The parameter is fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Leo and it is in 1-7 
axis with DK Mercury. Parameter is met. 
Jupiter is transiting in Sagittarius - the sign 
in which VS falls, thus leading to the 
satisfaction of this parameter. 

Saturn is transiting in Leo from where it is in 
mutual aspect with natal LL Mercury. Jupiter 
was transiting in Scorpio till 21 November 
and from there it was aspecting the 7H. So, 
the parameter is met. 

On 16" August LL Mercury was transiting 
in Cancer where it received the ninth aspect 
of 7L Jupiter transiting in Scorpio. Thus, the 
parameter is met. 

Jupiter transiting in Sagittarius does not get 
connected to natal Venus is retrograde and 
is posited in Capricorn. The parameter is 


not met. 

P7 4 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna and 7H, leading to a reasonable 
satisfaction of this parameter. 

P8 Neither LL Mercury is transiting in 7H nor 
7L Jupiter is transiting in Lagna, leaving this 
parameter unfulfilled. 

Observations 
Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is 

transiting in Taurus where it receives the fifth 

aspect of natal 7L Jupiter. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK - 
Saturn is transiting in Leo and it is in 1-7 axis 
with DK Mercury posited in Aquarius. : 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Rahu is being 
aspected by both - 5L Jupiter and 11L Mercury. 
ADL Sun is posited in 11H and it aspects 5H. 


Birth Chart 01-02-74 22:48:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage _24.11.2007 a eas pet 
Rake nc 

fferere aRTat|24- 1-200) 
feaeirnt = RT 
hat eta/ie 
fiaa. ey ; 
rena. ae | 
LBL, atrac 
[3.4. Fert 
[aI.7. afar 


gerd - 29 
1. Fees we qa A were a a gfe 


62 


fara a te 21 sree Bh a ea 
He MTA TS A Met Fe Aa HT aT 
at 31 WR wa YR faa a Fafis 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aria at aap 


witfae alte faerg wea (ue danPra gfzaer) 


to 


w 


S 


an 


are oA & Here S-1 H AT Wes 
wa @ ak vain Fae aan wa FT aar 31 sa 
we 4 del cana faa a dea 2 SF) 


7 oradéen fee at 2 fad warm 8 aa 


qa fer 21 


. frre eH oy 2 ak fae SF as TE aT 


wet 1 TR aT 


. ie Sa thee ae we elt at oie aatercia 


TAT FTW al 21 AT aH TI aT TS 
gira Foo ak aa aa we at afte tax 
Br tet TER a Fras amy fart am 


16 Ae Hl aT ge HE A on wel va 


ghaan Hom al we aE Te at afte 
fat eft ata: ae tart at ary gat 


ag A freee ae 2 sik oS Yew a saa 


als Gard wel aa eT 2 


Birth Chart 05-08-81 08:15:00 Navamsha al 


Tet ser 


7.98984 Te ay Te S oreaa Wat 
fran al wiepfa ¢ < Zi 

8. Tat aa qe aa aa ee shad 
STAT TS AT a A safe ae was get 
mau wet sa ZI 


Frtarar 
Thee weg at yet - gy Yo S 
Ta Te rare aT aE Ht sfte 3) 


anrate Ut tet wit at gfe - fae a 
TR A VTS Tea Fane ge (Hy 4) 
aa zi 

watst W WETayT a amide at 
WaT /TaAT at Wenreer/ Waa A ART - 
TRIMS TE WK FIAT TS THs qa st st 
& ofte 3 at adarta i 119 wa A doar ak 
ea wa Hl te wT eI 


Case study 30 


Transit Marriage_23.04.2003 


| Ma Ke Ma iz Ju SuMe Ec Sa POB [Ranchi 
DOM |23.04.2003 
RaMe 
Se Ju Vim jRa/Ke/Mer 
Chara|Sag/Virgo 
ke Ve As As VS |Capricorn 
=, | DK /Saturn 
Mo [ As Su Ve Me DKN /Aries 


02 03 UP Scorpio 


P1_| P2 | P3 | P4 | P5 Pr 
ze Fe 


Pt] | V DP Aries 


Analysis 


Pi 


P2 


P3 


p4 


PS 
P6 


MD lord Rahu is placed with lagna lord.AD 
lord Ketu is in 1/7 axis of LL.PD | mer is 
posited with Rahu in D1 and is 7L of D9. 
in chara dasha AD is of Virgo which has DK 
in It 

Jupiter is transiting in Can and from there it 
is aspecting VS which is in CAP 

Jupiter is transiting over natal lagna lord 
Sun and Saturn is in 11" H from where it is 
aspecting Lagna 

Parameter is not net. 

Jupiter has already influenced natal Mars 
while transiting in Gemini 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arteit at aout wa 


P7 Here 7 out of 9 planets are around lagna 
and 7* House 
P8 Neither lagna lord is in 7" H nor 7" Jord in 
lagna, hence the parameter is not met. 
Observations 
Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is 
transiting over VS, also aspecting LL sun and 
MDL Rah 
Aspect of Saturn on DK ~ Saturn is in 
Gemini and is aspecting DK, the natal Saturn 
PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or { tH/L 
— 5" L of D9 is Mars is in Rahu/Ketu axis in 
D9(MD and AD lords) 


63 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
Birth Chart 05-08-81 08:15:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_‘ NO] 04.2003 


et cori 


fas 2 EE} 

‘esa 7. am ak wan S ara ag 9 Ha 7 Te fea 
1. Fae Ug S aA aA a S Tt se a 

ag 8 wae A ae 21 WR ST Aa | 8. The a oT a ea eT TT TT 

We a wd S oy warESet Ft at sa HT Rift crs aH wsferd Tel aed, forte ae AIRE 


ae Waa 1 ga ae eta 
2. a aan Ut aan A wd ae wh) Pater 
feat 21 Tet wg al alten - Tha HR TST 


3. Tre A ye gem wma (Has) A dd gal Haein Wee H ae aaa siafiate 3 TA 
(qfraen) 4 fer fare wen at uid wee SnreatH Ut witex sift at gfe - asc t 
sa mes al tt qu wem 21 Sees Blt Bet Ui A fer sae Tee! 

4. RR a am fre Ba al wafaa we tar | fe TT A as ah a site care fe wa, 
aT HS aa S SN F PR wT Zz! wate FY meray a arate yer a 

5. ae WIS Tet WW Aet Sta zi TAA / Tae Bie UST RTT B TTA - 

6. ee ee Fai Hr Val Ae UeE-hg at We eI 


Case study 31 
Birth Chart 19-10-71 02:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_30.04.1999 


POB {Delhi 
DOM [30.04.1999 | 
Vim |Ju/Sat/Ra | 

+ 
Chara|Taurus | 
vs Scorpio | 
DK {Sun 
DKN |Libra 


A Z Pa BS Be Pr Pe 02 03 | [UP |Scorpio | 
eas V 


DP Leo t 


Analysis P2: AD Tau is aspected by DK and DKN (both ar 
Pi: MDL lord Jupiter is aspecting 7" L Saturn, in Lib) 
ADL Saturn is 7" lord of D1 and Rahu is | P3: Jupiter is aspecting VS from Pisces 
unconditional marriage giver. P4: Saturn is aspecting LL Sun through 7" asped| 


64 Guide Shri K.N. Rao  artesia aft aor: i 


wifrw ait faare wae (var aah ghee ) 


but Jupiter has no connection 


P5: Satum and Sun are in 9" H showing Piya 


milan 
P6: Jupiter has no connection with natal Mars 


Jer sen 


Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in 1-7 axis with LL and DK and DKN 
Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturnis in 1/7 


P7: four planets Sun, Saturn, Mercury, and Jupiter | axis of DK 


are close to 7" H 


PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 


P8: Neither lagna lord is in 7" H nor 7" jord in | — D9 11™ lord Saturn is Aspecting MDL Jupiter 


lagna 


Birth Chart 19-10-71 02:00:00 


Ll weasel F ary Ga ye a waaay 
aaterna wi faa ¢ aa FRR UE wT 
uate ot ah 2d) qaie 4 at aa a ak ae 
wag 4 fra dae as WT att 21 

2. mR aan gua uf at é fore we gen feet 
SSR F MTG Aa Bt gfe Z1 


and 5" L Sun is with Jupiter 


Transit Marriage_30.04.1999 


6. Ga FIR at WS Te A TH Eel F 
area at watfad vet fear ae aes ye Tet 
ata 2 

7. Faia Foam a was S area she A 
wai aaa we Fe 21 

8. Trae A ae ge 9 aera al eM STAT UA 
Aaa aa at wenfad set fora gaferu ae 
aes WI A sat 21 


3. aga sma (gfran) 4 feed faore wea at| Frtterct 


aren ta (FIT) A feta Te A wenfad feat 


4. Tre SB wt A Aaa aa (4S) A dane aT 
ad al wsifad fee, dia mre ye 4 ae a 
dont wafaa aet fem set are ar Aas 
ae vet ata 2 

5. Te ar ae gd ten wee ait Sat Aa 
ma Aum ue ad & arate fren fier ga BI 
ae AMIS WT Bet zl 


Treat as at afer - ae eS aN a 
THR Hl Wl SS WII AIR F TR 
qa & ar a 21 

anrearee Ut That wt at afte - gen aft 
Aad aeeren ad at (sareseit) are A wht 
ay a (wan) wafad wt @ ZI 

Water WH HErayt a aeae yaa wT 
Waa aeigy atte Wares wares A erat - 
FERRIS TS Tat Fae ZI 


Case study 32 


Analysis 
P1 MDL Moon is placed in 7“ H OF D9 and 
ADL Mars is in 7" H of D1 


Guide Shri-K.N, Rao < antegit sf aur wa 


P2 ADScorpiois 1/7 axis of DK and is aspected 
by 7Pad from Cancer 
P3 Jupiter is aspecting VS (Sagittarius) from Leo 


65 


vile site fare aaa (wa dart gferator) 


fr vio Fa 4 ve ae wrt eS aI 
8. TR A AT ge Fy Ua at aT ATA TS 
9 ora wl wanted vel fern 21 ae aes YT 
wet attr 21 
‘frtteror 
Treat we at afi - se Tita wa a 
“TR eS FT ay ta SH te wer Zi 


Tat eT 
anreanta Ut Wet wit at gfe - guy 
UR 4 feed cree wh we de A eR a 
ula al aft sft set 21 
waryt W Werey a aradyrarer at 
WAR /TAAT BHT Une RT/THTaST A MT - 
FMT Tet Ht Vas wre we efe fat wae 
Tew at 


Case study 33 


Birth Chart 10-12-54 13:55:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Masriage_28.01.1980 


POB |Jaipur 


DOM 
Vim 
Chara 
vs 


28.01.1980 
Ju/Sat/Ve 
Gem/Sagi 


Aquarius 


Ra 


Me Su 


Ve Sa 


DK 
DKN 


Jup 


P4 P7? 


[ P6 


UP Gemini 


x Vv 


P83 o1 [02 
x SHV 


DP k| Capri 


Peet 
Analysis 


P{ MDL Jupiter is the LL of D1 and aspects the 
Lagna & 7L mercury. In D9 Jupiter is casting 
its ninth aspect on LL Saturn. ADL Saturn is 
the LL of D9 and it aspects Lagna. PDL 
Venus, besides being a natural marriage 
giver, is posited with LL Saturn in D9. Thus, 
the parameter is fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is Sagittarius which receives 
the aspect of UPL Gemini, leading to the 
fulfilment of this parameter. 

VS falling in Aquarius receives the aspect of 
Jupiter transiting in Leo. Parameter is met. 
Saturn is transiting in Virgo, the natal 7H, 
and aspects Lagna. Jupiter is the natal LL 
and it is transiting in Leo. Retrogression of 
transiting Jupiter means it is effective from 
Cancer and gets connected to natal LL 
jupiter and natal 7L Mercury. Thus, the 
parameter is met. 

LL jupiter in transit is retrograding in Leo 
and is effective from Cancer from where it 
is in mutual aspect with 7L Mercury 
transiting in Capricom. The parameter is 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + urfexfa st aout wa 


P2 


P3 


P4 


PS 


satisfied. 
Jupiter transiting in Leo does not establish 
any relationship with natal Venus posited in 
Libra, leaving this parameter unfulfilled. 
6 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna and 7H. The parameter is met. 
Currently neither LL Jupiter is transiting in 
7H nor 7L Mercury is transiting in Lagna. 
The parameter is not met. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Gemini which is the UP and Chara 
Dasha MD. Further, this Moon aspects Chara 
Dasha AD Sagittarius. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn transiting in Virgo does not get connected 
to DK Jupiter posited in Cancer. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 ~ in D9, MDL Jupiter is posited in 
Leo and it aspects 5L Venus posited in Aries. 
Jupiter is being aspected by 11L Mars. ADL 
Saturn is posited with 5L Venus in Aries and it 
receives the aspect of 11L Mars. 


P6 


67 


Case Studies 


Navarnsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
Transit Marriage_02.12.1967 


Birth Chart 28-09-41 06:07:00 
—— 


MaR | SuVe 


Astam 
(Pakistan) 


Vv Connected | _¥ v 


02.12.1967 
Moon/Mar 
Chara |Sagi/Scor 
Saggitarius 
DK {Saturn 
IDKN [Aquarius 
UP — {Libra 

DP Cancer 


P4 Saturn is in 7" H aspecting Lag and Jupiter 
has already influenced 7" H through 9% 
aspect while transiting in Cancer 


P8 Neither lagna lord is in 7" H nor 7" lord is 
in lagna 
Observations 


P5 Mercury the 7L was transiting with Jupiter Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is 
in Leo a few months back. aspecting DK Saturn and is transiting over LL 
P6 For male native Jupiter should influence | Mercury 
Venus but in this case Jupiter has no Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is no 
connection with Venus aspecting DK 
P7 all planets are scattered in the horoscope PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
— 11° L of D9 Jupiter is aspecting AD lord Mars 
Birth Chart 28-09-41 06:07:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_02.12.1967 far eer ater 
(arse) 
ferare. aTéheat|02~ 12-1967 
fet | Pad 
at eater 
faa. Ry 
[aa jets 
ear. feRERT i 
[3.7 leet | 
M, 


1. TERI TK WT Wa WE aT gf 2) 
SRT Fe WG HS aM VIR SIT 
Te eae 21 aa Fas was A 21 

2. Rare sien tS fas wea A cpa 
vata feet 21 

3, Fae wa (aq) 4 feera faare wen a fae F 
TR wt WAS A wafad ae ve us B 
ot fat 

4. THR WA oe a A cia fle A chee 


66 


ax @ Te 4 wa wet ren 2) ae Awe 
are Ser anf frat am) valet A aR Ue | 
aA HK 21 

5. ofan A tree wt oma gy a fie F 
THR Ht Te a fen fem at gar tie 
ARS YT stat #1 

6. fae FT wt Ye A set Faw a! 
ps eh ea aa ee aleve) 
I 

7. Wa OSs H ore-ae ae wr ara sete 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ uriqit st a0 7 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 10-12-54 43:55:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


Transit Marriage 28.01.1980 


Ma 


LN SoS 


Fert - 33 

fagerror 

1. FERIA AS ag gat a ak ae 
qu at tea a1 vai Fae ase ou 
aaa oft Sea ter 21 aes Ut at wag 
Fa ar aaa ak am wl aa 81 WIR 
RTs Ye Aa T ag wy | ay qaax 
Ba aS wl oT War He RET 2 

2. eM wore A wq at arden 2 alk fe 
Read sage oa St se WH fe 21 

3. fore wen qa HS) safe fae FR a 
t Ue sa We oft Sra aot agafa eS 
\ 

4.0 aR aa a 2¢ ot fe aaa oat 
ak a we aH we ofe ot 21 qe at TR 
fee Hal 2, afer oat ofa S oro ae wet 
Oo waret star sara are ye a aa 
ay ahi a were a wr 21 


KeVe 


LL. 
3.4. 
6. TER TS Br He feed wae YR 
alg weary Fel TU Ter 21 gefere ze ore 
wel ary wet St ter 31 
7.6 Te G4 a TA S sae wat at 
amafe 2 BH 
8. faare & Waa + at arte aS aaa 4 on atk 
4d eee ga er ae aA a ot 
Patter 

Tiree wg at syfirer - asc ar Thee fires 
42 wei s7e¢ ¢ AR set af at ae en Wome 
W We 31 ae TS sea aq el ta 
wall 

eres Ut thee wht at gfe - aan Fy | 
TIRE GF ROT aft aap feet erat eee | 

Te a als were aet aa wr 2) 
water Y AETay a arate yet ar 

GAA /TAAT BT UHM THAT ST ATT - 
wat aset A aera fee F dar Zz sik Dy Tj 


5. oat aft & are ae A ye at wea ar | ad Gade ys at tao a1 ade wh at 
LORS See a a ea ea ee 
1 : 


Case study 34 
Analysis in Leo, however, till 13 August Jupiter 
Pi MDL Jupiter is the 7L in D1. In D9 it receives was transiting in Cancer and from there it 


P2 


P3 


68 


the aspect of 7L Mars. ADL Mercury is the 
LL of Di. PDL Mars is the 7L of D9, The 
parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and it receives the 
aspect of DK Saturn posited in Pisces. The 
parameter is satisfied. 

VS falls in Capricorn and Jupiter is transiting 


Pa 


aspected the VS. The parameter is met. 
Saturn is transiting in Capricorn and from 
there it aspects both ~ LL Mercury posited 
in Libra and 7L Jupiter posited in Cancer. 
Jupiter transiting in Leo is the natal 7L and 
it is aspecting the 7H. Thus double transit 
gives the green signal to marriage. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao < aries at sorte aa 


waifte oil frog aaa (Ua aarfie gheator) 


Birth Chart 14-10-66 21:22:00 


Je ae 


Transit Marriage-10.11.1991 


Navamsha (spouse) 
rc 


Rewa (MP) 


Ee ee 
V v ¥ V x Vv 


Chara | Aqu/Virgo 


DK [saturn 


Connected | ¥ 


P5_ Till 24 September LL Mercury transiting in 
Leo was conjunct with 7L Jupiter in transit, 
thus signalling the satisfaction of this 
parameter. 

P6 jupiter is transiting in Leo where natal Mars 
is posited, leading to the fulfilment of this 
parameter. 

7 =‘5 planets, including Sun, out of 9 planets 
are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is met. However, at this time 
the parameter is not met. 

P8 ~LL Mercury will transit in Sagittarius, the 
natal 7H, from 15 December, leading to a 
satisfactory fulfilment of this parameter. 


Birth Chart 14-10-66 21:22:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon, transiting 
in Aquarius, is in mutual aspect with 7L Jupiter 
transiting in Leo. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Capricorn and it does not 
establish Jaimini aspect on natal Saturn which is 
the DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Jupiter is posited in 
Virgo with 11L Sun where it receives the third 
aspect of 5L Saturn posited in Cancer. ADL 
Mercury is in mutual aspect with 11L Sun. 


Transit Marriage-10.14.1991 


L. Terra Ye St-1 F aerae zt ai di-o 4 
BS aa Are wt afte fra wt 21 aes 


qa sarEsch a ote bl WIR Ae 
wae AT aT z1 


1. aa Gen até ait ate A dar eRe 


wrt saw afte Sterne orl weafa 3 tat 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao Arlee 3 aout: Ta 


faa. 
evar. 


ice 


3. foarte wen Fe Ae, wafer qe fee @ ae 
a Tel 8 dies 13 area am He A we 
aaa Te A wen we gfe seit eit 

4. vert A eR ed are Bis wt sft gen feet 
wee gy ain ae fiad ware oa Te 
aa a 21 ae aT eR wars Ta 3 Safe 
ae wate @ ati act ofa a ae He FT fee 
serareia ae at it wens Bt eT 2 


Case Studies 


5. att 24 feat om fae 4 what aed aaa gy | Pretaror : 


Wa Ua Teh we teat fra fe at 
aorta & Set A 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 
Trae weg at fire: — ae A ate ae 
aan fie a tree wate qe a afte fat 


6. 18 fie A ae HL tal tel gS AfeeT OT 
wl SRI Het fer 21 ea RE A ae ad 
yt a ort 2 

7. Wa Fad § Te HH a SS ST Ass A areae 
warpfa & es ZI 

8. 15 fear S aM GT WaT wa wy S Tay 
aU ak da seal Mt ents <a st are 
facet ae Ages AM] ael Sian 2 


FRX Tl ZI 

anata Ut Thee wif at afte - wart 
Tea a Te VA aT arr wilt a ite ara 
wel aA er zl 

water W aerayn a atareyrarer a, 
Wer cater Se Wee / WERT A ATE -! 
aren FARR Te HRT es aT S sh, 
Ta R Gea wt at ata site 2) aad gy) 


aR wares ga A site wary 2 


Case study 35 


Transit Mariage-22.11.1997 


o1 
Connected | Vv Nv 


MDL Mars Is placed in Lagna ADL Jupiter is 
aspecting 7" H and Rah Is aspecting MDL 
and ADL in D9. 


Piscesces (AD) is aspected by DK from 
Sagittarius. 

Jupiter has already influenced VS while 
transiting over Sagittarius. 

Saturn is aspecting lagna and Jupiter is 
transiting over 7 L. 

About 2 months back Mercury was in Virgo 
and was aspected by Lagna Lord Jupiter. 
P6 For female native Jupiter should influence 


Gert - 35 

fayerrot 

1. WaTaSet F aera dade ae a He 
a aaa ae Te at afte GaH TK FI 


Pa 


PS 


70 


natal Mars. Jupiter has already activated 
Mars while transiting through Sagittarius. 
Most of the planets are close to Lagna. 
Neither lagna lord is in 7" H nor 7" lord in 
lagna. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is transit 
over KL which is Leo. i 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn i! 
aspecting DK from Pisces 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH SH/L or 1 1H/l 
— 11" Lof d9 Mars is MDL and is placed 
withJupiter which is ADL 


Vey Ue aT Ueite ater St 8) Faire 
Te ak We we wa gay FY wea 
vita 4 21 va we Ae ARS YA ate zi | 
2. ae rer fee A a oe flere & ae Hy, 


I 
Guide Shri K.N. Reo + aries Far Wi 


P7 
PS 


silfaa ait faarg ama (aH aafres gfeato ) 


Birth Chart 22-01-75 05:25:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Fe ae 


Transit Marriage-22.11.1997 Haeaalial 


HM UR oe arraRH Ane cal gfe 21 

. ag A fee feos wen war 4 fea thee & 
IH MI Tay GT GH 21 

TER ar utr ate aa A dant am at sik 


w 


S 


ferare arérea)22.11.1997 
ferent nya 


8. TR A arg ye A ae al ae aT gE 
A aa at vated vet fra 21 vai ae 
aes We el eat Z 


Te fedta va FT were ga al werfad ae | Prtteror 


det tet Boas st ym aa ZI 

5. Thea A ars We tHe (feta aa) A ak 
aa qa give (gre) A feta fat 
we & waa were ar am él ae 
mes wt yr eta 2 

6. TaN WER ae Ye A Tease S a 
(34) feed ane at uenfaa sel fea ae 
mes WU Het ata 2 

7 Oh We wet aled 9 vel A a ore ve Trax 


a 


Te erg cat aftr — fears @ fea aa 
ara wa (Fas) Aas RK UT offs aS ZI 

ante Ut That oft at afte - Aseit A 
ares Wea aq ae fe we bee or at a 
a of cea wiz 

water F Werayt a atadyrara ar 
Gar / Tate st WHA Tea BAT - 
TERIA Are at Gaae WEE We sf d) ATA 
waresig it é1 


Case study 36 


Birth Chart 28-11-55 15:15:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage-2-12-1984 


Ve As 


Vv x Vv 


pa | P5 | P6 ae 
Vv Vv ¥ xX Vv Vv 


02.12.1984 
Ra/Ra/Ve 
Leo/Cancer 
Gemini 
Saturn 
Cancer 


Aquari 


Analysis 


Pl MDL and ADL Rahu is aspected in D9 by 7L | P3 


Mars. PDL Venus is in Lagna of D9 & 7L of 
D1. 


P2 AD of cancer has DKN and is aspected by 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arfesit at Asc wa 


DK Saturn 

Jupiter is aspecting VS by its 7" aspect from 

Sag 

P4: Saturn is in 7° H and Jupiter is aspecting 
lagna 


71 


Case Studies 


P5: Venus is a fast moving planet and soon Piya 
Milan will take place. At present the 
parameter is not met. 

P6: Jupiter is not aspecting Mars . 

P7: Most of the planets are close to 7" H an 
Moon is close to Lagna 

P8: Neither lagna lord is in 7° H nor 7* lord in 


lagna 


Birth Chart 28-11-55 15:15:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is about | 
to enter Lagna. 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
aspecting DK 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 1 1H/L' 
— 5* L of D9 is Mer and it is placed with MDL in! 
D1. 11 L Jupiter is aspecting PDL Venus. 


Transit Marriage-2-12-1984 


02.12.1984 


1. Fare A ae are at gfte SET TE US 
at Cag Sit TR ST YH tad oa A 
feta 2) arate yu eat Z 

2. we am fee uf a was Fa oe fee Z1 


oraéen we Uf A aes sai feet 21! Preteror 


ae STI Far Ui a ae 1 

3. faga ofe 4 feed faore wen TTR TR 8 
4 of a aa cf crea te 2) ae aes WT 
ara 21 

4. aq ute 4 fers tee Fe aac SA 


Ta Teas a wit a WH gfe Stet at Set) Gare wel 21 


WR BT AIS YM A eI 
5. uel fare @ qed al fren fers Fel fea 21 


6. WeTRSeH & aa A fers det we oq is A! TERM SF ara TE WH WHT WS a Be 
TRE HL WW Te wr Als Wary aa wT on tar! 1 


Case study 37 
Analysis P3 Jupiter is not aspecting VS 
P1 MDLMars is aspecting 7" H of D9 and ADL | P4 = Saturn is aspecting 7thH and Jupiter is wit! 


Saturn is aspecting Lagna of D1 and Venus 
is 7" L of D1 and in 7H in D9. 
P2 


72 


Tau (AD)is aspected by both DK and DKN_ | P6 


al ae ARS WE eT St eT Ze 
7. Aa Tas S are-wa we Bled He ae thy, 
wt 81 ars WW Baz 
8. faare & fer a ana a waa at atl 
Baa Ye a ort at wenfaa set fear die 
AS WI et eet 21 | 


rat ws at alive - aT alet at Sil 
BRS Aa UE Sik faate cH fet ongitate BS faq) 
wa A yaa wel act ZI 
aR Ut Trae wit cat afte - gfeeg 
F fered arene wt a Tre ae SoU aH a 


watyt YW ugram a armadsmara F 
Waa aaa sit Urey wares A ARTA - 


7* L Venus 
Piya Milan has already taken place in Sco : 
Jupiter while transiting through sco hal 


PS 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao artes st ace wi 


witfre ait fararg ara (var daria gfeator ) 


Birth Chast 16-07-81 15:15:00 


Fer Ae 


Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-23.11.2008 


Pi | p2 | p3 | pa | ps | pe | Pr | pe | 03 
Vv Vv x Vv Vv Vv Vv v 


Connected | ¥ V 


influenced Venus 
P7 Most of the planets are close to Lagna 
P8 Venus was is Sco some time ago PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 1 1H/L 
Observations — Mars the MDL and Saturn the ADL are 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon has | aspecting 11H of D9. 
transited DK and DKN a couple of days ago. 


Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
aspecting DK. 


Birth Chart 16-07-81 15:15:00 Nayvamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-23.11.2008 sy zea ffeeeit 
ferme area ]23. 1 1.2008 
reat fey 
i repay 
fa. igen 
Fea eC 
LaLa, fee | 
[3.3 prs 
[a.4. qe 


TR Fl ATES WI SA! 

2 oe FR ae SS TT Tet I OU A aR 
at @ aaa ys a fie a gar 2 we 
ames ot ye dat 21 


lL wrest F we aa we gt 
Sree WT OL CHP St sft Si WITTY 


we wet aaa dt) sat A dna wah A 
aa wa AF aon wa we sft sri @ e, at 
uf wat wart 31 aes YT at 7AM 

2. KR ACM FIA Ww aH FF F MSH 
vate at gfe 21 

3. ger F fera fears wen at og uf A ate 
wt TS A Welaa wet fra, gafere AIS 
qa vel eal 

4. oq ufe A ae eet Te A ae Ae a 


. oy A ee HR A Sel H HH FA 


fea ae at wefan set fran safe ae 
ares YU Ae cla 8 


. aa aoe we afer 9 FS 5 Te saettale 


we att faa & fe 


. Ue Ue aa a ont ag gat @ ok ae 


aaa ved St ae Ba AS cH UT He yA 2 
Theat ag wt after - a faa & fea 


gfe a a fae a ate at ala A set S| gears wa (HEM) Fk aH gem at Od 
wa wa wt wafad fra sa wer cet | we cer at 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ Arie st aout ta 


73 


Case Studies 

SRT Ut thet wit at gfe - ase 4 
aR wa we Fe ok fee Fe ae eT UA 
see were al sar ZI 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


waigt WY WeTey a stare RIT AT 
UAH /AAAT BT WHET / TTS A AT - 
eet Het a WA at gfe 11d wa we 


Case study 38 


Birth Chart 28-01-65 18:20:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Martiage-27.11.1991 


POB |Meerut 
DOM /27.11.1994 
Vim = |Ve/Ke/Sat 
Pisces/Tau 
VS Libra 
is the a DK Moon 
DKN [Aries 
P5 P7 | P8 01 | 02 | 03 | |uP _|Gemini 
V ' V v Vv Inlagna [| ¥ | Vv | [pp [Pisces 

Analysis this parameter. 

Pi MDL Venus isa natural marriage giver. ADL | P6 Jupiter transiting in Leo casts its fifth aspect 
Ketu is posited in Scorpio in D1 and there it on natal Venus posited in Sagittarius. The 
receives the tenth aspect of 7L Saturn. In parameter is met. 

D9 also Ketu, posited in Pisces, receives | P7 6 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
the third aspect of LL Saturn. PDL Saturn is Lagna and 7H. The parameter is satisfied. 
the 7L of D1 and LL of D9. In D9 Satu is | P8 LL Moon and 7L Saturn are transiting in 


posited in Lagna and aspects 7H. The 
parameter is satisfied. 

Chara Dasha AD is Taurus. The parameter is 
not met. 

Jupiter transiting in Leo does not get 
connected to VS in Libra, leaving this 
parameter unsatisfied. 

Satum is transiting in Capricorn, the natal 
7H, from where it aspects the Lagna. Jupiter, 
transiting in Leo, casts its fifth aspect on 7L 
Moon posited in Sagittarius. The parameter 
is met. 

LL Moon is transiting in Cancer and it is in 
mutual aspect with 7L Saturn transiting in 
Capricorn, thus leading to the fulfilment of 


P2 


P3 


Pa 


PS 


geri - 38 
fagcrrt 


1. FERRI wes waa faare ar Aalitr aree 
a sata dq S-1 4 gran 4 fer é 


74 


their own houses — Lagna and 7H 
respectively. However, LL Moon was 
transiting in 7H on 14" November, thus 
leading to the satisfaction of this parameter. 
Observations 
Role of transiting Moon ~ LL Moon is 
transiting in Lagna and it activates the Lagna, 
the 7H and transiting 7L Saturn. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK - 
Saturn is transiting in Capricorn and DK natal 
Moon is posited in Sagittarius. Thus, there is no 
Jaimini aspect between the two. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with SH/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL Venus is the 5L of D9. 
Ketu’s dispositer Jupiter aspects 11‘ lord. 


fae ue ae wiht at aera afte Z1 Faia a 
Wm fer Sq WR aa Ms at ada afte 2 | 
Wan TIT wit St-1 BI WAAR aT SI-9 
wl GAT z1 


Guide Shri K.N, Rao APR at ore we 


vate aitt faare aoa (ua dah gfeator) 


Birth Chart 28-01-65 18:20:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


XOX 


2. atm gay at t st aes ya at aK 
WT tt @ 

3. fee Fae Hee We Hr gen fee fae 
wen 8 ae ae wea Fat a te 1 

4. Uf art thee aE At ot fe aa wa 2) 
aa a a ai ae Fe ET BI Ye Ht Ga Gite 
oy feet ca a WE BI 

5. TAM ASH Bl WR att aah wal Fe 
ait Fa Fae ax ee ae wil @ saa 
frer-facr arp-arH et WaT ZI 

6. fae Ara at tar We aq fe cai 
Yep WR Uset eft Sterent Sa ASS Hl Ta 
RR WI TI 

7. eerie none Wes 
Be 


rd Fe 
Transit Marriage-27.11.1991 sa ear [ats 
du Ke fares aRHe27.1 1.1991 
5 S fait =| eye 


8. CAAT F ATA, aT-sray areal GS AE HT 
wei aa yeas ved a 14 TER aI 
TSM TA Wa FAS FHT AT 
Frttarct 

Theat wg at afte - cA aI aH 
SSA USA a aA MT (rae a) A it ears 
aA WI 

SRR Ut Weae wrt cat qfte - Ane FH 
Tat at WS Vs ar aq feet Sere Se 
aa a alg Sita sft aeaey set oa I ter 2 

water A wea a atrdyrraner aT 
CAA / TAA Sit WRT CRTs A Ara - 
Gag rat Wea Ys oq AS sik WHat 
ane i afte Gay aa WWE Ui ZI 


Case study 39 


Birth Chart 27-01-64 22:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage-19.06.1987 


SuAs 


Ju Mo 


RaMo RaVe 


POB |Bidhuna (UP) 


19.06.1987 


Sat/Ra/Ke 
Chara|Cap/Cancer 


DKN [Libra 


eel 1 ay = | 


Pt | P2 P4 
vy iv v 7 x x 
Analysis 


P! MDL Saturn is conjunct with Venus in D1. 
Venus is a natural marriage giver. ADL Rahu 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + aria st au wa 


is posited in Gemini in D1, the other sign of 
LL Mercury and there it is mutual aspect 
with LL Mercury. In D9 Rahu is conjunct 


75 


Case Studies 


P2 


P3 


p4 


PS 


Birth Chart 27-01-64 22:30:00 


with LL Venus in Pisces. PDL Ketu is posited 
with LL Mercury in D1. In D9 Ketu receives 
the aspect of both - LL Venus and 7L Mars. 
The parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha Cancer receives the aspect of 
DK Saturn posited in Aquarius. The 
parameter is fulfilled. 

VS in Sagittarius receives the ninth aspect 
of Jupiter transiting in Aries, thus leading to 
the fulfilment of this parameter. 

Saturn is transiting in Scorpio. Considering 
its retrogression, it aspects natal LL Mercury 
posited in Sagittarius. Jupiter is the natal 
7L. It ts transiting in Aries from where it 
aspects natal LL Mercury. Thus, double 
transit is giving its clearance to the marriage. 
Both LL Mercury and 7L Jupiter were 
transiting in Pisces till 25" April, thus leading 
to the fulfilment of this parameter. 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


P6 Jupiter is transiting in Aries and fails to 
connect to natal Mars posited in Capricorn. 
This parameter remains unfulfilled. 

4 planets were transiting in/around Lagna 
and 7H and the parameter is not met. 

LL Mercury was transiting in Pisces ~ the 
natal 7H ~ till 25" April, leading to the ' 
satisfaction of this parameter. ; 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is ' 
transiting in the 7H and it aspects Lagna. It is in 
the RK Axis. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK - 
Saturn is transiting in Scorpio and it does not 
establish any Jaimini aspect with natal Saturn - 
the DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or | 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, ADL Rahu is posited in 
11H and aspects 5H and 5L Mercury. 


P7 


L 


76 


Terma wt S-1 A Aatie fae ara 
yp S wa 3) aden WE a qu at 
aad aft fae FS ok aa a se afte 
fara 21 vain A oe A A a aS 
Wa 81 IRR eA Hg St-1 F aA ay 
eS wa 2 waa a tg a aT UE F 
Fa AT Area Ht at site fret wt z1 


JR Fee SH REN fert TERE Us 


al afte a1 


. oy fer faore Gen Ay A Te aI Pe TS 


apt wert afte 31 


Transit Marriags-19.06.1987 sa ear faye, 3.5. 
19.06.1987 
aves 
ava 
hae’ ‘ 
cat 

a. feet : 

ia if 

at te Wit Ht sal Als s 

Sea TAT ga wR Ga | 

gfe d1 wate da ae ay A ike ae a! 
a ate al te wt ee ae 8 Hy! 

TH aa are get 4 ge fee sree he frag | 

al arr arqafa ch 

5. 25 ata we are qu a wader 7p cH a! 

&t mee tia Foon atk at se frar-fren | 


at agate <1 | 
6. AT BT ME WS Het fers ar Ane 4 
wie Weary ael SAT U tel V1 gafere ae dam! 
wet yh vat ata 21 
7. WA 9 Waa H A-a 4 We a 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao urea at diet TH / 


wife ait fare aaa (ua dari shearer) 


Tt ae 


& UAT AT A Th 25 set wae wa walt ofa FY a SF an aan wh a 


ae 4 on, fran aren ae aes oot eam 
Prdteror 


sen ag Sita ware vet aa oT eT 21 
warst A Waray a@ aterdyrarey wT 


That weg wal afirer - a aa oa A | edaraet ait UenraeT/ Taras A TT - 


TR ld ae Ue-hg Ha Ww at ah 


Tee wa Fad ae TE TH Tae qu wt 


arta We wiret vit wat afte - wt ar | ate cfe 21 ag dae at tea 2 
Case study 40 


Birth Chart 11-01-72 19:16:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage-06.05.1992 


POB 


Kolkata 


Ma Su 


DOM }06.05.1992 
Sat/Ra/Mo 
Taurus/Virgo 


Sagittarius 


Analysis 

1 In Di, MDL Saturn is the 7L and it aspects 
LL Moon. In D9, Saturn aspects LL Jupiter. 
ADL Rahu is placed in 7H in D1 and with LL 
Jupiter in D9. PDL Moon is the LL of Di and 
it is placed in 7H in D9. The parameter is 
fulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Virgo — the sign of DP. 
Further, Virgo receives the aspect of UP 
Gemini. The parameter is met. 

P3__ VS in Sagittarius receives the fifth aspect of 
Jupiter transiting in Leo, leading to the 
satisfaction of this parameter. 

P4 Saturn, transiting in Capricorn, is in the natal 
7H and aspects not only natal Lagna but 
also natal LL Moon. Jupiter in transit was 
in retrogression in Leo till 16" April and 
thus it was effective from Cancer, the natal 
Lagna, and aspecting the natal 7H as well. 
Double transit clears the marriage. 

P5 On 8" May, natal LL Moon will transit in 

Cancer, the natal Lagna, from where it will 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  ariexiy at aoa wa 


As ney ad DKN Libra 
Pi [| p2 | P3 | Pa | P5 | P6 a P8 o1 [02 [03 ]|¥P__|Gemini 
vfTv{[vi[vi[v[vfPx tx Neart [x | ¥ [DP [Virgo 
be in mutual aspect with Saturn the natal 


7L, transiting in 7H. The parameter is met. 
Jupiter in transit was in retrograde motion 
in Leo till 16" April and from there it 
aspected the natal Mars posited in 
Sagittarius. The parameter is fulfilled. 

Here 5 out of nine planets are transiting in/ 
around Lagna and 7H. The parameter is 
satisfied. 

Neither LL Moon is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Saturn is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
remains unfulfilled. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 
12H. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Venus, posited in Aquarius, does not get 
connected by Jaimini aspect to Saturn transiting 
in Capricorn. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL Saturn aspects 5H in D9. 
ADL Rahu is posited in 5H in D9 and aspects 
11H. 


P7 


77 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Abproaci 


WY) VaR TI Ga aA Fst Ar 

aa Bat Aa HATH Wa A Aa gaT eI 
2, a arden Hen apse Ft et Ue et Sift 

fera aug at a se afte fier wet FI 


4 
q 
| 
: 
a 
: 
{ 
4 
al 


ae wi 2 fie Fae 16 Se aH oat oT 
wel 4 Sea a a was HT Wa fear 
ya we 8 atet thet a fase aT aT! 

8 Te al ae San ae 4 wa ae Ta 
aR a @ ate wit a gfe fatima 


= 


78 


~ 


qe aes tt ary aa? wife o Fas H 
faa & Ra a sit aaa ara H ge_firg y 
8. faa & fea a a ay aa ao 
a 7 A water ais os Tt aS 10 faa ve! 
a TIA A ST aT 


Tiree os eat after - RA aes et AF 
Tl SPM! 

anes Ut wet wit ait afte - a 
fera apres al nat Hoa He Ui a 
Sth gfe sat fret wat 2 

vata FY oeTagt a ade F 
TANT i WATE THT A Way - 
Tere wht vai F aq ae at tea { 
wate SR we tae A et dar ZI 


Guide Shri KN. Rao + arte sft oe af ts 


wifia itt fate aaa (wa dart gfzetor ) 


Fert sere 


Case study 41 


Bith Chart 23-05-42 18:23:58 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage-08.02.1968 


Su Sa Ma 


POB /Amritsar 


Ve Ke 


DOM /|08.02.1968 
vim {Su/MeMa | 
[Chara|Capicap _| 
Gemini 

[DK | Mercury 

DKN Libra 

UP Aquarius 


DP Leo 


Pt 


Analysis 


MDL Sun is posited in the other sign of LL 
Venus is D1. In D9, Sun is posited in the 
other sign of 7L Jupiter. ADL Mercury is 
posited with 7L Mars in D1. Mercury is the 
LL of D9 and it is posited with 7L Jupiter. 
PDL Mars is the 7L of D1. The parameter is 
fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Capricorn and it 
receives the aspect of DP Leo. The 
parameter is met. 

jupiter transiting in Leo does not get 
connected to VS falling in Gemini. The 
parameter is not met. 

Saturn is transiting in Pisces, the sign where 
natal LL Venus is posited. Jupiter, transiting 
in Leo, casts its ninth aspect on 7H. Thus, 
the parameter is met. 

No relationship is established between the 
transiting Venus — the natal LL — and 
transiting Mars — the natal 7L- at the time 
of marriage. However, till 19° April, 1967, 
i.e., less than 10 months before the 
marriage, LL Venus was transiting in Taurus 


Trt - 41 
fayersut 


Guide Shri KN. Rao @ aniexta at aot wa 


where it received the eighth aspect of 7L 

Mars transiting in Libra. On 28" April, 1968, 

Venus and Mars will be conjunct in Aries. 

Thus, the parameter is fulfilled. 

P6 jupiter in transit is in retrograde motion in 
Leo and it is effective from Cancer from 
where it casts its ninth aspect on natal Venus 
Posited in Pisces, leading to the fulfillment 
of this parameter. 

P7 5 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna/7H, thus the parameter is fulfilled. 

P8& Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Mars is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
is not met. 

Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon was 

transiting in 7H a couple of days ago. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Mercury, posited in Gemini, receives the Jaimini 
aspect of Saturn transiting in Pisces. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9— ADL Mercury is posited in 5H in 
D9 and it aspects 11H. 


ane vet ase a aaa 21 va ae a 
drt cara ari-eret yf fem @ 21 
2. aes Tat a fae fea aera 
waft Ax eT ZI 

3. fas STR ar te TR fer feos fans wen 
a weary zal FT Ow ZI 

4. Hi oT ar eR ate Sra BIT 


79 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 23-05-42 48:23:58 Navamsha (spouse) 


DEK 
es 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


SryaE 
08.02.1968 


Transit Marriage-08.02.1968 


Ur Fo 3 ti fae oa a wT 
way qa WK gfe tat det thet & fra 
al oot at I ai 

5. Fa TR FTA Ys a wan Ane 
ata fate & Od vee wears Tet el 
afer faare & 10 ae Ved 19 sta 1967 
we gay AAR St YH Ht gen a At 
A anact aftz tax fien-fiers fear om 

6. fae a aha ae TS A aT gH | aT 
i fead faare Gen al aan gfe cat ae 
fran ony feat 


7. a ak aaa H aaa face F fr od a 
5 06 4 


Case study 42 


Birth Chart 15-07-53 02:02:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


8 TT a aT HI UE-get Hh al 7 
fase & qed ved the et Bo 2) 


Wet wy cat after - FT aA a Fl 
stat frpel et al 
anTane Ut Wet wy at |efte — faq! 
fea SERS Ge wel Ht SB That HTT ry al! 
Sfrt shiz fra wt 21 
water A Weraym a aradyrea wT 
Wen / daa at waa / THe A Weare - 
artery ge aan Y dam ara AF aor 2 faa 
Sar Hy sfiz 11 a wa we 


Transit Marriage-27.04.1980 


p4 | P5 | P6 | P7 
| x v 
Analysis 
Pi =MDL Sun is conjunct with 7L Mars in Gemini 


in D1. In D9 also Sun is conjunct with Mars, 
the LL, in Gemini. ADL Venus, besides being 
anatural marriage giver, isthe LL of D1 and 
posited in Lagna. Venus is the 7L of D9. 


PDL Saturn receives the fourth aspect of | P3 


Mars in both — Di and D9. As already 
80 


mentioned, Mars is the 7L of DI and LLo 
D9. The parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and it does naj 
connected to any of DK Moon, DKN Cancel} 
UP Leo and DP Capricom. The parameter 
not met. 

Jupiter was transiting in Cancer ~ the sign 
VS - till 29" August, 1979, thus leading 


P2 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arizea af oe 


wifow site fears aa (ver dares gfe ) 


the fulfillment of this parameter. 

P4 Saturn, transiting in Leo, aspects natal Lagna 
and natal LL Venus. Jupiter, transiting in 
Leo, does not get connected to either 
Lagna/LL or 7H/L. The parameter is not 
met. 

P5. Till 1* March LL Venus was transiting in 
Pisces where it received the aspect of 7L 
Mars transiting in Leo. The parameter is 
met. 

P6 Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 
connected to the natal Venus posited in 
Taurus, leaving this parameter unfulfilled. 

P7 2 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 

transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 


Bitth Chart 15-07-53 02:02:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


wre ae 


Parameter is not met. 

P8& Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Mars is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
is not satisfied. 

Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 

transiting in Virgo. It was with transiting Mars, 

the 7L, till the previous day. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Moon is posited in Leo, the sign where Saturn is 
transiting. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL Sun is the 5L of D9 and 
there it receives the aspect of 1 1L Saturn. 


Transit Marriage-27.04.1980 hue 


1. Fares os oa Sect A aad ae FS 
wa 81 qa A ot ae ana (ater aa S 
war) wey 21 serene ye fae a 
Sie SA h stele aa dar we Hate 
ak ag valet a aaa at 31 yea aaa 


WR mya aT ava & a 
wey Tel TT OT wl 21 safe ae fas 
aet ay et et 
5.1 ard de 4 A wea wae ote am frat 
fret ax gat en wife aa fee a eR aK 
te TA AT St Sa gfe fer get eft 
6. Fé fear ot vet erat aaife fie feta alee 


Ur a chi qsferal a faare o4 A germ ane 
al ofte fret wet at 

2, Feta SM sen Frere ay ae a a wt 3 
wife seria aM Hl S frase ara 


ol Te Fas Read Saree YH G His Geary 
wa wT wai 

. a wat Sad 2 we a a aa a 
armre ai gafere gq aaa A ae wade sft 


~~ 


TaN TR TAM Ha, STI fae a cae 
Ta AO feret ar ot qeare et aa or zat 31 
3.78 29 SIRT 1979 aH He A dt on, et 
faare wes fer 21 a aks a ae TH 
Hh Bl AM aT 
4, fee HAR ae we ala al gfe a aA a 
TPT Ye TS wet dh cif aet Tae aR 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arfasia st qo wa 


ote a wet am a 31 
8. 7 a a ae wa We sh aS 
UAT ATT ST AA Aa UI 
Patter 
Wert we at after - wh fa wa am 
SSH GAT WT H AMAT WT HL WT TI 
SRT Ut Tre sift at afte - aa 


81 


Case Studies 


ram fee 32 ok uf ar mee of aet we BI 
wart Y Werayr a@ aradyrmara ar| at gfe Zi 

Wan /caae sit WHR Tena A AT — 

Case study 43 


Birth Chart 05-06-55 16:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Teens a dade ¢ ak Ta WK THT Oh 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach] 


Transit Marriage-27.04.1980 


27.04, 1980 


Aqu/Leo 
Cancer 


Ra 


Jupiter 
Leo 


P1 Aquarius 
v Connected | V Leo 
Analysis P6 Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 
Pi MDL and PDL Venus, besides being the connected to natal Mars posited in Gemini. 
significator of marriage, is the LL of D1 and The parameter is not met. 
posited in 7H from where it aspects the | P7 Here 4 planets, including Sun, out of 9 
Lagna. ADL Sun is the 7L of D9. The planets are transiting in/around Lagna and 
parameter is met. 7H. The parameter is met. 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Leo, the sign of DP | P8_ Lagna Lord Venus was transiting in Aries- 
and DKN. The parameter is satisfied. the natal 7H — till 27" March, i.e., a month 
P3 Jupiter was transiting in Cancer — the sign of ago. Thus, the parameter is fulfilled 
VS - till 29" August, 1979, thus leading to reasonably well. 
the fulfillment of this parameter. Observations 
P4 Saturn, transiting in Leo, aspects Lagna. Its Role of transiting Moon ~— Moon is 
retrogression means it casts its aspect on | transiting in Virgo the 12H. 
7H and natal Venus which is the LL. Jupiter Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — Dk 
is also transiting in Leo and it casts its ninth | Jupiter is posited in Cancer and Saturn is 
aspect on 7H. The parameter is satisfied. retrograde with it. 
P5_ Till 1% March LL Venus was transiting in PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


met. 
Birth Chart 05-06-55 16:30:00 


Pisces where it received the aspect of 7L 
Mars transiting in Leo. The parameter is 


Navamsha (spouse) 


11H/L in D9 — MDL Venus is posited in 1 1Hin 
D9 and it aspects 5H. 


Transit Martiage-27.04.1980 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ aria ai aur a 


vifin sit faare ame ( car aarftas gfe ) 

Ferd - 43 

faererot 

1 wary YR fae a aH eS seTT 
S-1 a aa dar wa A gar 3) sara 
we wait aset at ace a 21 safe 
frae & fee quel at etefa 2 

2. 7 aarén fis att sei fers drat SRK 
a aware Aaie faore at agnfa = @ ZI 

3. 78 4 29 SUR 1979 TH HR WR AR far 
wei ferme wen fers 21 

4 fe Ah ae Se a aT che am HE 21 
oat Tha SAR Te WA Te a MT 
Ue at st yenfad fre ze ar tree At ae 
2 ak Set WS Fe WK aaH afte Sell ga 
we a dea ae aei ary dat 2 

5, Veet ord ae aa A wea wa AT Ue 


Fe Tea 
fae A thee et WAT Ane a frar-faers 
a Fa aS Hi eatpfa S ct eit 

6. fae ar TR ye fea feet Sarees Ara A 
ae Wary vel SAT UT ET 21 

7. Wa Wa 4 ve a a & efi 21 

8. Uh We Ted 27 ard om Ae A wd oa 
ae Ya Fea aes at yt fran em 


Ther wg ct afiter - a Hen ah 12g 
wea F 

SRE Ut Wheat wet sat ahs - SRT 
Ie ae AS a fee Fae a we aa Ula sa 
yaaa Se 

water Wo agras a atadyrmer at 
Waa /GaN BC UH/ THI A ATA - 
TIM WF Aa HF 11a wa A fera eax 
uaa ® gfe Sra tT 21 


Case study 44 


Sith Chart 24-11-53 15:35:06 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage-09.12.1979 


Delhi 


09.12.1979 


Ma Ju Aries 


Jupiter 
Libra 


Pt | P2 


P3 | P4 


Virgo 


03 | 


flo ve ney 


P5 Pe Pr Pe oo 
v a 


Libra 


Analysis 

P! MDL Satur is posited in 7H with 7L Venus 
in D1, ADL Rahu is posited in the sign of 
Saturn which is thus associated with 7L 
Venus in D1. PDL Jupiter aspects LL Mars, 
7H and 7L Venus in D1. In D9, Jupiter is the 
7L and is in mutual aspect with LL Mercury. 
The parameter fs fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Sagittarius and it 
receives the aspect of DK Jupiter, posited in 
Gemini, and UP Virgo. The parameter is 
met. 


P2 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ariests st meu Ta 


VS in Aries receives the ninth aspect of 
Jupiter transiting in Leo, leading to the 
fulfillment of this parameter. 

Saturn is transiting in Virgo, the sign where 
natal LL Mars is posited. Jupiter is transiting 
in Leo from where it aspects the Lagna. The 
parameter is satisfied. 

Till 23° November, i.e. a little more than a 
fortnight ago, 7L Venus was transiting in 
Scorpio where it received the aspect of LL 
Mars transiting in Leo. The parameter is 
met. 


P4 


P5 


83 


Case Studies 
P6 Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 


connected to natal Venus posited in Libra, 
leaving the parameter unfulfilled. 


P7 3 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is met. 

P8 Neither LL Mars is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Venus is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
is not met. 

Observations 


Role of transiting Moon —_Moon is 
Birth Chart 24-11-53 15:36:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


transiting in Leo alongwith LL Mars in RK Axis. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Jupiter, posited in Gemini, receives the Jaimini 
aspect of Saturn transiting in Virgo. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — Both — MDL Saturn and ADL 
Rahu — are posited in Capricorn in D9, where 
they receive the aspect of 11L Mars also MDL 
Saturn is aspecting 5H & PDL Jupiter is posited 
in 5H. 


Transit Marriage-09.12.1979 


1. Femny alt a eect A ATA Aa A 
AAA YH Hae a V1 sears Ug wht 
at uf a 2 fran ye 6 red wey aT 
Sat 2 St-1 A TR TS Te AT FT 
eS wa ot aaa at at te we Zl 
aa 4 ae wet aa & ak a qa a 
saat ofe fata 21 ad: ae aS Ut TE 
ry at 21 

2. SRR wy al fe feet qERe Wwe 
ak an fer saae at ofte faa tt 21 

3. fae ar eR Ae feed facts GEA We AAA F 
Se Ta ZI 

4. TER at wen a 2 wel ame ate fet 
ta he time Ra tea 
es Genta or 

| 

5, fans SUH Tears ted 23 FARR TH aia 
O ed Be ae Ye al fhe STE aI 


Fee 


84 


09.12.1979 


@ WS Hl aet gen fet Sari UF 
a alg wary vet aa oT eT 21 
7. Ti IO FS 3 we SR a a 


8. TAM ATe a UTA WH FT WH-gH F 
Ta KK HS WA faars H GET Vee Tel few 
we 

Frterct 
Thee we wet afreer - ST AT Tes} 
aa fas F 2 ot we-ta ae HW ot Bh 
ARTERS UW Tet wit at afte — fienl 

fer wee qe wm pea feed are a a 

Gfirt oe 31 
wast Y Werayt @ aardyrey a 

WAR /GAAGT BT URE CERT AH ATT - | 
wrens wi a we wai A wax Ft fay 

WHR ata cat afte 31 wit dan HI ta we 

at ver sty We day A az 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ania at are mi 


wifes site faare ana (yer dathiar gfcaater ) Feri ae 
Case study 45 
Bith Chart 07-05-74 19:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Mariage-22.11.1997 
rc 
Madu Delhi 
i Me/Ra/Sat 
Cancer/Pis 
Taurus 
Mo Mo Ve Meen 
sd Virgo 
Pi | P2 | P3 | P4 [| P5 | Po | P7 | PB o1 o2 | 03 | |YP_ |Leo 
V V v [ov Vv x v v Connected | x [ V | [DP [Capricorn 


Analysis 

P! MDL Mercury is posited in Aries — the other 
sign of LL Mars —in Dt. ADL Rahu is posited 
in Lagna in D1and in D9 it is being aspected 
by 7L Saturn. PDL Saturn is conjunct with 
LL Mars and aspects 7L Venus in D1. In D9, 
Saturn is the 7L and it aspects LL Moon. 
The parameter is fulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Pisces and it receives 
the aspect of DKN Virgo. The parameter is 
met. 

P3_ Jupiter transiting in Capricorn aspects VS in 
Taurus, leading to the fulfillment of this 
parameter. 

P4_ Saturn is transiting in Pisces — the sign where 
natal 7L Venus is posited - and aspects 7H. 
Considering the retrogression of transiting 
Saturn, it aspects the Lagna as well. Jupiter 
is transiting in Capricorn from where it 
aspects 7H. Double transit clears the 
marriage. 


Bith Chart 07-05-74 19:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


P5 Both - LL Mars and 7L Venus — are transiting 
in Sagittarius. The parameter is satisfied. 

P6 Jupiter, transiting in Capricorn, does not 
aspect natal Venus posited in Pisces. The 
parameter is not fulfilled. 

P7 4 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is unfulfilled. 

P8 7L Venus was transiting in Lagna till end- 
October, thus satisfying the parameter. 

Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Leo and it is in RK Axis. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Moon does not receive the Jaimini aspect of 
Satur transiting in Pisces. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
1fH/L in D9-MDL Mercury is posited in 5H of 
D9. 


Transit Martiage-22.14.1997 we 
fare arar|22.11.1997 


2x As Su lave 


eed 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  arigeit at aot wa 


85 


Case Studies 


gerd - 45 
fayeraur 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach) 
atl 
5. SMe He a aa Ye oy Hwan frat 


l. Fees qa sTEset A aT ATA si 
at ofa aa Wd) seerae ag va Rect 
@ wt Fé a tae a sa we eerie a st 
gfe 2) waa war ws aig trea S aR 
3 SR Wa UP WK saat she 21 aaa A 
ify wate slat AM ST I Saez) Te 
Hes TP] ela BI 


2. Haerng He al He feed cree | Fetter 


vai A wafad ace fase st quia ct 
3. FT ST TR Te ayy fer fare wen al 
qu wi 2 


Ue SI ATT zi 
ana Ut where ifs at gfe - did 


Rt ZI 


6. Wa FT TPR qe He fer Serarefis ee | 
weartas vet FX wer 21 | 


7. a Oi 4 we a ak aa & aE 
SRL SAT ANS TI TS FI 

8. SRA A ao cer Wate BH A a ye TR 
aed ara va Aes ot yeh fen am 


Treat we at afrer - asm fas ofa 


} 


4. AR Tet eet as A eae TATA 
aaa ys at et aR oe a ta wi 
ame & SRY MT A Bl A wate a TAT 
31 Fat BBR We wan We wt ta Wea are Se Wee URE BAT - | 
21 safer eist tet 4 fare a aquis yer | were qu daa wa F fee 41 


Case study 46 
Transit Martiage-22 01.1980 


IPR Uf sl Sisal glee cemeR aT aT ae 
faa wat 21 
waret WY aerey a area a 


Birth Chart 20-06-57 19:29:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


P2 


[pa [ P5 | Pé | 


MDi Mercury is posited in Aries — the other 
sign of LL Mars—in D1, ADL Rahu is posited 
in Lagna In Di and in D9 it is being aspected 
by 7L Saturn. PDL Satum is conjunct with 
LL Mars and aspects 7L Venus in D1. In D9, 
Saturn is the 7L and it aspects LL Moon. 
The parameter is fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Pisces and it receives 
the aspect of DKN Virgo. The parameter is 
met. 

P3 ‘Jupiter transiting in Capricom aspects VS in 


86 


| p7 | P8 |] o1  [ o2 | 


P4 


PS 


P6 


POs [beni] 
v 
[Dk [unter 
[DKW [Caprica | 
lur [Pisces | 


DP |Ares | 
Taurus, leading to the fulfillment of this 
parameter. 

Saturn is transiting in Pisces — the sign where 
natal 7L Venus is posited - and aspects 7H. 
Considering the retrogression of transiting 
Saturn, it aspects the Lagna as well. Jupiter 
is transiting in Capricom from where It 
aspects 7H. Double transit clears the 
marriage. 

Both - LL Mars and 7L Venus — are transiting 
in Sagittarius. The parameter Is satisfied. 
Jupiter, transiting in Capricorn, does not 


im 


ols 
= 
& 
Hi 


‘OB 
'S 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao. @ anieiq at Sore oF 


watfta ait faare wae (ua darfrn gfeator ) Ft ae 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Leo and it is in RK Axis. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Moon does not receive the Jaimini aspect of 
Saturn transiting in Pisces. 

PACofMDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 11H/ 
Lin D9—MDL Mercuryis posited in 5H of D9. 


aspect natal Venus posited in Pisces. The 
parameter is not fulfilled. 

?7 4 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is unfulfilled. 

P8 =7L Venus was transiting in Lagna till end- 
October, thus satisfying the parameter. 


Birth Chart 20-06-57 19:29:00 
SaR 22.01.1980 


Neo 4 fea 


2 4 
Me Ma 
gerd - 46 


fayeraot 
L. FERIA Fe ae S ak EA AAT WS at 
afte faa wt di sais A qa aia @ ok 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage-22.01.1980 


5. ame We fae F aet went Tet A bat ae 
WS TA qe Hl ant fren-faerd Se ET ZI 
6. aaet TS eH Ta S ot wet ¢ wel saa 
ane fied 31 a RE we aS A Aa 


waa We S fe al SeH-weM zi wae 
Ta GI we faa a Aafie arn 
an @ sera ata a A dal 2 at Ta a 
3a ae ye at gfe ot fra wt dt ae 
ames Wh eta 21 


a 


7. Wd wa Hae 2 ve a Tg Z, 


faa ae ads dip-cim aia a fire a 
ara Gt 


8. 17 SA ae Sa ge A wa BOR 


2. FR aM GeaH Al eeHreH Aa (AZ) wa Wes & Ue fear 
aaa (49) at sfte fier wet 2 

3. fae @ alee aR TEI Te gen fers fare wen Tre we at yf - aa foo F fea 
wR Hie gfe wet Sea UW we eI Hm A a wel Sere SST aT 

4, Uf TR en FS wel WT HT AT Ie ane ot Treat vit at afte - wit aT 
feed 21 saat ofte wars a He ot 21 fe A | chee Ha AS el EH TE 1 
TBR WS WE Hl site HAW 21 eet Te aT water A AeTay a aradyrer wT 
fasri Feat cy el tet Zz aa /aaaeT Se WHT / WHT A UT - 

ETT Fire AaT aT WapeIT 2 
Case study 47 
Analysis mutual aspect with LL Mars in D1 and 


P! MDL Rahu is posited in 7H in D9. ADL conjunct with 7L Jupiter in D9. The 
Venus, besides being the significator of parameter is fulfilled. 
marriage, is the 7L of D1. PDL Moon is in | P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Pisces and it receives 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao « arfesiq at Soc wa 87 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 23-12-30 14:03:00 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-07.01.1956 POB /Visakhapatnam 
DOM |07.01.1956 
Vim |Ra/Ve/Mo 
Chara |Leo/Pisces 
vs Aquarius 
DK {Venus 
DKN |Cancer 
UP Virgo 
|DP Sagittarius 


the aspect of UP Virgo and DP Sagittarius. 
The parameter is satisfied. 

Jupiter, transiting in Leo, aspects VS 
Aquarius, leading to the fulfillment of this 
parameter. 

Saturn is transiting in Scorpio — the sign 
where natal 7L Venus is posited. Jupiter, 


P3 


P4 


transiting in Leo, aspects Lagna. 
Considering the retrogression of transiting 
Jupiter, it is effective from Cancer — the sign 
where natal LL Mars is posited ~ and aspects 
natal 7L Venus posited in Scorpio. The 
parameter is met. 

LL Mars was transiting in Libra till 3 January 
and it was aspecting 7L Venus, transiting in 
Capricorn. The parameter is fulfilled. 

PG Transiting Jupiter is in retrograde motion in 


P5 


Birth Chart 23-12-30 14:03:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Leo from where it aspects natal Venus 
posited in Scorpio. The parameter is 
satisfied. 


P7 5 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna and 7H, satisfying the parameter. 
P8 LL Mars was transiting in 7H till 3° January, 


leading to the fulfillment of this parameter. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in 7H. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK - 
Saturn is transiting in Scorpio — the sign where 
DK Venus is posited. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 ~ MDL Rahu is in mutual aspec 
with 5L Saturn and ADL Venus is posited in 11H 
- aspecting 5H - in D9. 


1. TERIA Ue ee wa A 2) aaa 
Ue ae wade sft 31 Wee WIT Tao 
al are Are al afte fret wet @ at sale A 


88 


Transit Marriage-07.01.1956 Sr Fa ferererreer 
[ferarre arehe1]07.01.1956 
fait = yt 
faX aera 
fa. Edel 
[a1. AT. AG 
evap, [ae 
5.3. oa 

ae Waa Te HS ae 2) sa ME Gal eA 


2. — sraden ae at He feert sag sik 
fera erage art gfte tax faore & ae 
aA @ 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  artexfa at aac 


winters 
3. 


4. 


5. 


6. 


Birth Chart 03-02-60 05:30:00 


att faare wna (ua darfres gear) 

foe fea TER Ze 4 Ff feed facts wea at 
wwe 

uit a Te Gian Ae wei aa Geel aT 
wae ys fier 21 fee at at vented ap 
Sh Mecsas grmary Le 
TW zl 

ama ara a3 wat aH ga 4 wa aa 
Fee A TER HL WS TAR Bw cl frer-faerd 
arr sft = ct eft 

fae OTe wt amt We 4 ofraa fer 
WaraTe Yee cl wafad Beh FI AIRS at 
oot frat 


Navamsha (spouse) 


4s 
8. 


rl 


TR ae 
9485 Te ERM & sree Z| 
ag Aa A 3 Saat deh SATA TTS We TT 
we a ary fea 
Ther wg at aire - a ae a A 


anteita Ut wee wiht at afte - gfraa 


Ae ea aaa wt aware YP S or st 2 


watyt W werey a aadyrerer ar 


TAA /GAAT BT WHER / Waa A ATR - 
Tee WE wl Gate wilt a ge fata 2 ct 
adr ys ia aa 4 feed 2 


Case study 48 
Transit Martiage-22.05.1989 


Res) alle POB [Barauni 
DOM |22.5.1989 
Vim = {Su/Sa/Ve 
Chara |Leo/Cancer 
SuMe Ra vs virgo 
JuVe Sa | ea | | [ | DK__ {Moon 
wee DKN [Aries 
P1_| P2 | P3 | P4 | P5 [ Pe | P7 | PB 01 | 02 | 03 } |UP__ [Capricorn 
v[tvfv Ta a er uf v [ v_] [pp |teo 

Analysis transiting in Taurus. The parameter is met. 

P{ MDL Sun is posited with 7L Mercury is D1. } P6 Jupiter, transiting in Taurus, does not aspect 
ADL Saturn is posited in Lagna with LL natal Venus ~ posited in Sagittarius — leaving 
Jupiter in D1. PDL Venus is a natural the parameter unfulfilled. 
marriage giver. Further, Venus is posited in | P77 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
Lagna with LL Jupiter in D1 and it is the 7L transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
in D9. The parameter is fulfilled. parameter is fulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Cancer and it is 1-7 | P8 LL Jupiter is transiting in Taurus and by the 
axis with UP Capricorn as well as with 7L beginning of July it will transit in Gemini — 
Mercury. The parameter is met. the natal 7H. The parameter is fulfilled. 

P3 Jupiter, transiting in Taurus, aspects VS in | Observations 
Virgo, leading to the satisfaction of this Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
parameter. transiting in Lagna. 

P4 Saturn is transiting in Lagna — where natal Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 
LL Jupiter is placed — and aspects 7H. Jupiter | Moon, posited in Aries, does not receive the 
is transiting in Taurus from where it aspects | Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in Sagittarius. 
natal 7L Mercury posited in Capricorn. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
Double transit is favourable to the marriage. | 1 1H/L in D9 — ADL Saturn is posited in 11H in 

P5 Both ~— LL Jupiter and 7L Mercury — are | D9 from where it aspects the 5H. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arfesft ait tect wa 


89 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 03-02-60 05:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


jarttat 


Sa Te 


Transit Marriage-22.05.1989 


faryeraut 
1. Fea wt aged F aa gy aH 
ag 2 tt aaterng aft oa A Te 
mao fae a Ahi Hien ld El WIR 
SY YR oH A are aE H Hs z at ae 
Fae ar aaa at gga ae aT ea 
faare wert A wert ZI 


Se ee 
@ zl 

. aay O Thee wt Te al gfe aq fea 
frag Fe 8 

ofa ar eR OA RS Set MAT Ae AT Pera 
a1 gan feet thee Te Fae fer Ua ga 
a fe sre det tee & feared Bt cy, 
At TE el 

5, TA Te F STAT Ga GIT A UH MA WHT 


12.05.1989 
UI 


frm fier wt ZI 

6. Tat Hr Te (gaa A) aq A feed serach 
ae Hl yaaa ad ae OT wet eae we 
mes Py wel Sta I 

7. ws aaa 7 We TA a TT HiT 
Sar ort wena fe eI 

8. Fo A mae AL WE OAT YR BH ARS Fi 

WR wel eT 2 


mm oan wae 8 wae vat A see alk | Pte 


Tree we at yf - aan free & fe 
aa a2 

SRTaRS Ut rae wiht ait afte - a9 fee 
SRS USA WR oq A eR at eS asl VA a 
Shei gfe 21 

aig A WEE aA satay Fi 
Wedge Bt CHa / TTA S ATT - 
adam wm vag & 1d aa A goat Te 
7a al Se I BI 


Case study 49 


Birth Chart 06-08-70 15:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Masriage-01.12.1991 


Ambala 
[Dom [01.12.1991] 
Ra/Ra/Ve 
Can/Gem 
Sagittarius 


As Sa 
Ma Ra 


Venus 
Aquarius 


Leo 


o1 02 | 03 | 


Pal 


v | DP = |Capricorn 


Connected | _X 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao > apie ait orp 


sitfia ait farare ama (var deities gfeator) 


Analysis 

Pi MDL and ADL Rahu is being aspected by 
LL Mars in D1 and in D9 Rahu is posited in 
Lagna. PDL Venus, besides being the 
significator of marriage, is the 7L of D1 and 
in D9 itis in mutual aspect with 7L Mercury. 
The parameter is met. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Gemini and it receives 
the aspect of DK Venus posited in Virgo. 
The parameter is satisfied. 

P3_ Jupiter, transiting in Leo, casts its fifth aspect 

on VS in Sagittarius. The parameter is 

fulfilled. 

Saturn is transiting in Capricorn from where 

it aspects LL Mars posited in Cancer. Jupiter 

is transiting in Leo from where it does not 
get connected either to Lagna/LL or to 7H/ 

L. The parameter remains unsatisfied. 

LL Mars and 7L Venus were transiting 

together in Leo till 21* August, thus leading 


P4 


PS 


Birth Chart 06-08-70 15:00:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Ter se 


to the fulfillment of this parameter. 
Jupiter is transiting in Leo from where it 
does not aspect natal Mars posited in 
Cancer. The parameter is not met. 

6 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is fulfilled. 

7L Venus will transit in Lagna from 27" 
December. The parameter is met. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Virgo — the sign where natal Moon 
and natal 7L Venus are posited. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~— DK 
Venus posited in Virgo does not receive the 
Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in Capricorn. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL and ADL Rahu is conjunc 
with 5L Mars in D9. 


P7 


P8 


Transit Marriage-01 12.1991 Stare 


1. Tera yi aM aset A oad qu S 
a 3 at aera we aa A a IES 
wey at face ar tafe aren st EU WIR 
wes Ue aa A are ye S Hy 2 a ae 
vain at aaa td) ga ae at cee 
fae ae A aa 2 


2 at HH A aa wat F sage ik 
SO ESI S AGE RL at 
ee 

3. FUN AAR at WS Hl site wan fed 
fro wen oe 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arian at Sou wa 


[01.12.1991 | 
Uy, 
pron Faeys 


Uf are a We eT AS Tw Ah fee 

a1 gay feed TR 7S eR fer Gea Gy 

wm gfe creat Bet The & feat a oy 
Ft I 21 

5, TR TS a UA gy Fay WU Me wee 
fren fiers ax 21 

6. Thea aT Te (gua A) aq A fees warareiia 
ye al warfad wet He OT er V1 galery aE 
Aes Try wet stat ZI 

7. Fa aad 7 We TA aH STE ha 
Beat art venta 3 ez) 

8. Fay A A He TST TAT Te aT Gers | 

wes 4 fay aves etn ot fe ase a 


91 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


war a 2 freer we aes Ge Fe | eee Sa WH yy A aheear  O at ae 


TG 


aftt tite ad 31 


waist # nates a aay ar 


Tet og at yfaar - ase faa & fear | dade ait Wenree/warasieT BS BRT - 


am yt 


aaa wit Fae & 1ra wa A Aone trad 


area oe trex vfs at afte - Aa fee | ora wt 8a TT 21 
~ Case study 50 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Birth Chart 08-01-35 14:42:00 


Transit Marriage-07.02.1966 


pi [ p2 | ps | Pa | PS Fe a ot 2 


¥ v xX v v 


loom [or.c2 1055] 


Analysis 

P1 MDL Jupiter is posited in the other sign of 
LL Venus in D1 and in D9 Jupiter is in mutual 
aspect with 7L Sun. ADL Mercury receives 
the fourth aspect of 7L Mars in D1. in D9, 
Mercury is being aspected by LL Saturn. 
PDL Venus, besides being the significator 
of marriage, is the LL of DI and it is posited 
in Lagna in D9. The parameter is met. 
Chara Dasha AD is of Libra — the sign of 
DKN. Further, Libra receives the aspect of 
DK Saturn posited in Aquarius, which 
happens to be the UP also. The parameter 
is fulfilled. 

Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 
connected to VS in Gemini, leaving this 
parameter unsatisfied. 

Saturn is transiting in Scorpio ~the natal 7H 
— from where it aspects not only natal LL 
Venus but also Lagna. Jupiter is in retrograde 
motion in transit in Leo. Thus, it is effective 
frorn Cancer from where it aspects 7H. 
Double transit clears the marriage. 


P2 


P3 


P4 


ane and there it received the fourth 
aspect of 7L Mars, transiting in Scorpio. 
The parameter is met. 

Jupiter is transiting in Leo and it does not 
aspect natal Mars posited in Virgo, leaving 
the parameter unfulfilled. 

4 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna and 7H. The parameter is not met. 
Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Mars is transiting in Lagna. Thus, the 
Parameter is not satisfied. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Sagittarius and it was with 7L Mars 
in RK Axis in Scorpio ~ the natal 7H — till the 
previous day. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Saturn is posited in Aquarius and it does not 
receive the Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in 
Scorpio. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 11H/L 
in D9 — MDL Jupiter is the 11L of D9. ADL 
Mercury is the 5L of D9 and it is placed in 11H 


P7 


P8 


P5 LL Venus was transiting in Aquarius till 4" | from where it aspects 5H. 


92 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ SPEER a Game OF 


aifie oft faare aaa (ua darfra Ghai ) 


Birth Chast 08-01-35 14:42:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage-07.02.1956 


1, FEIT WS AAT YH At Tad ula A St 
vate vai A ae at S WER afte fata 


21 aReera gu al wate ane at agel 
afte fra wet 31 aoe A qu ae ae a at 
gfe @ WeaRR SIT UR we aT 2 ak 
gett ak vat & am 4 feed 2) safe ae 
AMS ael aL Stat ZI 


2. arate gen A array vais fer 2, six | Prtterer 


au feed crore eifs at ot sa a oft 21 
ea sag ott 

3. fas A eR at eT We fhe fied fare en 
ae way ae TT eT ZI 

4. oft ar Te afta ait aes aa a al wt 
a1 vat a ae Ue Se So at 
Ww wl 21 ani We fie a whee a eu Hh 
ah O Tay aa al tant det TK w 
faaiet Ht CP] Bt WT ZI 

5, CA Ye 4 Eee ae GH A on aK aR 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arfexia at aout. wa 


sreret frat fart at ert at ot fear om 


6. fae a are ye Hen fea wane Ta S 
ag ary set TI TT eT el 

7.98484 ve OTR Om ah ae 
arena 21 

8. fans 8 TT Ved Fat a a HI Tee 
aA WR oT aie a at SA Ae ST AA TE 
wala we AIS YO At st z 


Wheat wg at fire - a ar ae aq A 
a1 ae we fea ved ofan A uate ae S TT 
Weg Fa K AM 

aners Ut wer wit at af - ay 
fend aware wh 1 git a tee & ut at 
aftr gfe at 21 

watst Y WETay a arRte erat aT 
USA /TaAST it WeRleeT/TaTasT WRT - 
FSRITA TS AA H UHR S a sans 
qa cade det 11d sa a fee 21 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
Chapter - 4 
Additional cases 
t | 

yy DOB ne POB jaa] pe | com | om | Ghar? | vs | pk | DKN| uP | DP 
26-06-1061 Ven] Aries | Capri] Ut 
52 |24-06-1953] 04:20 Reet Cane | 09.12.1979 | Me/Ke/Ve | Aqu/Sco | Can |Mer| Leo | Leo | Capr 
53 [05-02-1954] 04:45 | Delhi | Sagi | Canc | 02-02-1980| Ju/Mo/Ve | Leo/Aqu | Ari [Mar| Leo | Scor | Libr 
54 De0721967| 06:5 Delhi |} Canc} Leo | 05-04-1992} Su/Sa/Ma | Pis/Gem ] Pis |Ven| Ari | Gem} Tau 
§5 |12-04-1952 06:60 | Calcutta Arie | Scor | 04-05-1980 | Sa/Mo/Sa | Can/Aqu | Libr | Jup} Arie | Tau | Leo 
56 12-08-1959] 23:05 | Mumbai_| Arie Cane | 18-04-1980 | Me/Ra/Sa | Lib/Cap | Cap | Sat] Gem| Tau | Gem 
57 |15-05-1969] 18:32 Delhi Lib | Tau | 01-12-1991 | Mo/Ve/Me | Sag/Cap | Sco |Sun| Cap | Cap | Gem 

sé o9-12-1960| 02:55} TAINO” Ti, | Lin [22-08-1991 sarraMe | Tauris | pis [ven] cap | c 
g poli Le p | Cap | Leo 
59 |07-09-1942) 04:00 aries Can Tip 06-05-1968 | Me/Ra/Ma | Pis/Can | Leo | Mar Cap | Sag |} Vir 
60 {20-01-1953 14:19 Kanpur | Tau | Can {03-12-1979{ Ke/Ju/Ju | Pis/Sag "Cap Sat | Sco | Sag | Tau 
6t |23-02-1931| 20:00 | Sultanpur | Vir | Aqu | 27-02-1956 | Mo/Sa/Me | Sag/Cap j Arie | Mar] Leo | Leo | Vir 
62. |22-12-1940] 00:62 | Ambala | vir | Tau | 18-11-1967 | Ra/Sa/Mo | Cap/Sco [Sag [Moo] Cap | Arie | Tau 
63 05-04-1965] 13:46 | Madras | Can | Sco | 26-08-1991] Ra/Sa/Su Pis/Tau | Pis | Jup| Cap Sag [ Fis 
64 |17-06-1956] 15:16 Agra Lib | Cap | 15-12-1979] JufJuJJu | Cap/Ari | Ari }Sun} Lib | Cap | Sag 
65 [15-12-1951] 16:45 | Agra__| Tau | Can | 15-12-1979 SaiRa/Sa | Cap/Lib [an Mer[ Tau | Agu | Can 
66 ease 15:35 one Lib | Sco |26-07-1980] Sa/Ra/Ve | AquiVir | Can| Jup} Leo | Pis | Leo 
[67 [16-05-1964] 22:55 |_Deihi_| Sag | Sco [17-01-1992] Ke/VelVe | Can/Ari | An [Sun| Cap | vir | Aqw 
68 [15-12-1957] 03:46 Dethi Lib | Aqu | 17-05-1980{ Ra/Ju/Ma | AquiSag Leo |Mar| Can] Pis | Gem 
69 [14-08-1961] 05:10 | Delhi] Can [ Sag |09-07-1980| MaiRa/Sa| PisiVir_[ Tau | Sat| Cap | Leo | Cap 
70_|08-07-1966] 10:30 |" Dethi_ | Leo [ Sco [21-01-1992| Ra/Ve/Sa | Cap/Sco | Tau [Mar| Lib | Gan | Ai 
71 02-07-1945] 11:58 | Calcutta | vir | Pis ]27-07-1968 Me/Juve | CapiSco | Sag Ven] Cap | Ari | Cap 
72 |19-11-1941] 06:51 | Lucknow | Sco | Vir | 18-11-1967 | Me/Mo/Me| Can/Tau | Sag | Sat} Cap | Agu | Can 
73 {05-09-1936 13:30 |Bhagalpur} Sag | Ari | 27-04-1957] Su/Su/Me | Lib/Sag | Tau |Ven} Pis | Pis | Sag 
74 |16-03-1939} 02:00 Simla Sag | Gem | 03-02-1968 Ra/Me/Mo | Gem/Pis | Aqu {Sun] Can | Cap ) Sag 
75 [30-07-1975] 18:45 | Delhi | Cap | Aqu [24-01-1996[ Ve/SaiJu | Lib/Tau [Can |Jup| Ari | Leo | Cap 
76 |03-08-1962) 16:30 | Lucknow anal Can } 15-11-1991 | Ma/Me/Me | Gem/Aqu Gem} ven Cap | Sco | Leo 
77 [01-08-1952] 23:05 |New Dethi| Ari | Tau [04-02-1980] Ve/Ma/Mo| Lib/Vir_| Aqu | Mer] Tau | Tau | ar 
78 Persea batt ache aes | ee eee Mo/Ra/Me | Pis/Gem | Cap | Sat | Tau | Cap | Ari 
79 [30-06-1926] 02:13 |Lakhimpur| Ari | Sag [19-01-1956] Ju/Ra/Sa | Leo/Sag | Ari | Jup| Sco | Cap | Sag 
80 [11-11-1973] 20:02 | Agra [Gem] Sco [22-06-2004] Ra/Ve/Ju | Aqu/Sco | Leo [Mar{ Ari | Can | Aqu 
81 |14-07-1936] 21:15 Eluru Aqu | Cap |04-01-1956 | Ra/Ra/Ke | Gem/Leo | Tau | Ven} Can | Pis | Ari 
| 82 12-03-1962] 07:40 Delhi Pis [Sag 17-04-1992 | Ra/Mo/Me | Can/Sag } Sag | Mer} Lib Sag | Can 
83 |14-10-1967| 23:05 Delhi Gem] Ari {17-04-1992 | Sa/Me/Mo | Aqu/Tau | Aqu |Mar} Ari | Sco | Ari 
84 |10-09-1952] 01:29 | Bangalore] Gem | Pis | 30-04-1980] Ra/Me/Sa | Aqu/Sco | Vir | Mo | Pis | Cap | Leo 
85 |23-02-1953} 19:55 | Nurpur Vir | Aqu | 06-03-1980 Sa/Me/Su } Pis/Can Pis | Sat Sco | Leo | Tau 
86 |04-11-1962| 23:59 Delhi Can | Cap } 06-03-1980} Ma/Ju/Ra | Ari/Gem | Lib | Ven] Can | Aqu | Cap 
94 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arigsia at arp @ 


stoftea gers 


wifes ait faare ana (car darfre ghzater) 


—_____ 


Vv 
Ta 
eet] 


Vv 
y 


“T Tope fe 
mz [oe [> fe fe be [> me le > x< be me [> > an ia 
A es t+ 
8 x |< Pe fe |< [> fe x > > > x fe [>< |x x fre [> p< [x x x |x [x 
1 dl L Pre 
oa fo ‘ol 
a {a bs Bl b= adR s x w\R al air Ix |s 
elels |g 2/s e|olP/s £ ie a |s Sls |E Is x {& E|2|zIlo 
= = 3 £ |= £ = : = z 
= |= 5lS12 15] e/S/3 12 3 x |Z 2 (x (5 |3 14/5 |z 2 |Z |x {3/5 |5 |S 
[ Z/3 lolz IS 18 fol [P/F 18 ole lols |r jz Flol 18 lolz fol |S 8 I= [= |* 15/8 18 18 
Tlase | ais -~j-/l?i7s c i) aoic aleim]e oO Eelalala 
3/5 &\s g\s s s |S S S/o \e/¢ 
tle <j 4 < <x tle =x zit ie fe 
COT r i 
> pe p< [>< Pe xa an ia x a « [> fe fe x Pe fe 


Vv 
Vv 


v 
Vv 


Vv 
a 


y 
y 
v 


y 


v 


v 


Case 
study 
51 


§2 
53 


54 
55 
56 
57 


58 


95 


y aneeia ot Sout Ta 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao 


Additional cases 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach] 


Sas| oe |,zen,| roe [tse] 98 | oom | oun, | gtsre | ve [ox |oxw| uP | oF 
87 [07-10-1961] 13:30 Delhi -02- Vir/Sco Aqu | Vir | Aqu 
88 |14-12-1966] 20:00 Delhi Pis/Gem Gem| Ari | Pis 

[89 |16-09-1955] 14:05 Alwar Lib/Can Cap | Tau | Sag 
90 |13-12-1951] 23:25 | Srinagar Lib/Leo Lib | Tau | Ari 
91 |07-04-1955] 22:25 | Allahabad -11- Can/Pis Aqu | Gem} Sco 
92_ [12-05-1972] 18:30 | Delhi 11-03-2000 Tau | Sco | Leo 
93 [07-07-1958] 01:15 | _ Delhi | Leo [26-07-1980 vir | Pis | Sag 
94 [03-06-1955] 15:35 | Gwalior | Lib | Sco [26-07-1980 Leo | Pis | Leo 
96 [02-09-1967] 05:49 | Nagal | Leo | Can [05-04-1992 Can | Can | Ari 
96 [04-05-1968] 22:02 | Delhi | Sag | Ari Me/Ju/Ju | VirVir | Vir |Mer] Cap | Sco | Ari 
97 |08-06-1956] 07:05 Delhi Gem] Pis | 28-11-1979] Ra/Me/Ke | Pis/Gem | Vir | Jup| Ari | Can Ani | 
98 |15-09-1934] 04:24 Delhi Leo | Tau | 10-01-1967 | Ke/Ra/Ma | Lib/Leo |Gem|Jup| Lib | Pis | Sag 
99 |07-04-1976] 00:16 | Faridabad} Sco } Lib | 17-04-2003] Ra/Ju/Ju | Gem/Cap]| Pis |Mar} Lib | Ari | Vir 
100 |06-09-1963] 10:10 Delhi Lib | Cap | 12-03-1992] Ve/Ju/Me | Aqu/Gem | Aqu }Mar| Lib } Vir | Ar 
101 |30-01-1963] 22:45 | Sultanpur | Vir | Gem | 27-02-1992] Ve/fSa/Ju | Ari/Tau | Sco |Ven| Ari | Gem | Cap | 
102 |30-01-1972] 03:45 Delhi Sco | Aqu | 27-01-1995] Me/Ju/Sa | Leo/Aqu | Aqu |Mer] Cap |Gemi] Sco 
103 |06-06-1968] 23:00 | Jorhat |Aqua} Cap {09-10-1991 | Ra/Ma/Ju | Tau/Sag | Tau | Jup} Tau | Tau } Aqu 
104 |07-09-1951] 04:33 | Madurai | Can | Aqu | 14-09-1979} Me/Me/Ma| Pis/Pis | Ari |Mer| Gem] Lib | Tau 
105 |29-12-1955) 03:00 | Nellore Lib | Tau } 14-09-1979] Ju/Ve/Ju | Cap/Aqu | Leo | Sat] Leo | Pis | Afi 
106 |28-11-1955) 15:15 Delhi Ari | Tau | 02-12-1984] Ra/RaiVe | Leo/Can |Gem| Sat | Can Cap | Aqu 
107 {04-05-1944| 12:46 | Cuttack | Can | Cap | 29-07-1968] Ra/Ju/Ma | Tau/Sag | Sco | Sat} Lib | Aqu | Sco 
408 |15-08-1964) 17:20 Delhi Cap | Cap | 25-04-1992 | Me/Ma/Ma | Lib/Gem | Vir | Jup| Cap | Lib | Pis 
109 |09-07-1963] 16:10 Delhi Sco | Lib | 25-04-1992] Ju/Sa/Ra | Gem/Vir | Sco | Ven} Sag } Aqu | Can 
110 29-12-1960} 21:53 Delhi Can | Sco | 12-02-1980] Ve/Sa/Ve | Aqu/Ari | Sag jMon} Tau | Aqu | Sco 
111 }15-09-1972] 09:30 Delhi Lib | Cap | 06-11-1991] Ve/Ve/Ju | Sag/Lib | Sag | Jup| Tau | Can |} Sag 
112 01-10-1944] 01:40 Delhi Can | Sco | 04-07-1968] Ju/Ju/Sa Pis/Ari | Aqu | Sat} Aqu | Aqu | Vir 
113 13-04-1972] 17:40 Delhi Vir | Tau | 15-12-2000] Ve/Sa/Ra | Sag/Aqu | Sco |Sun} Ari | Sag | Vir 
114 |]09-12-1945] 16:40 Patna Tau | Can | 09-07-1980] Ju/Me/Ke | Sag/Pis | Aqu | Sat} Can | Lib | Pis 
115 |06-12-1958] 16:45 | Ludhiana | Tau } Ari |06-07-1992| Ju/Ke/Sa | Sag/Gem | Sag | Sat} Ari | Ari | Vir 
116 |18-09-1956| 05:15 Delhi Leo Vir | 23-05-1980] Ju/Me/Sa | Lib/Sco | Ari |Sun} Cap | Vir | Leo 
117 |15-07-1936| 02:30 | Benaras | Tau | Can | 06-06-1957] Ra/Ju/Ra | Cap/Cap | Vir |Ven]| Leo | Leo | Cap 
118 |25-05-1961| 06:35 | Gwalior | Tau | Leo | 04-05-1992] Ra/Ve/Mo | Sco/Leo | Can ;Mer} Lib | Lib | Pis 
119 |08-05-1960] 04:30 | Lucknow | Ari | Tau | 04-05-1992] Ra/Su/Ke |Gem/Gem] Pis |Mar| Leo | Vir | Lib 
120 [08-10-1952] 05:30 | Rewari Ra/Ma/Ra| Sco/Ari_| Lib [Mer] Lib | Lib | Tau 
121 |01-10-1959] 11:47 | Jaipur | Sco | Aqu [28-11-1979 Ma/Me/Sa| Vir/Lib | Aqu | Jup} Leo | Gem | Sco 
122 |07-08-1955| 14:00 | Mumbai | Sco [ vir | 22- 01-1980 | Me/Ve/Sa | Gem/Sag | Sco |Mon| Can | Ari | Vir 
123 [07-07-1959] 01:15 | _Delhi jt tee 26-07-1980 | Sa/Ra/Mo | Lib/Vir_| Sag |Ven| Tau | Tau | Gem 
124 |08-12-1940] 20:30 eeu Can 18-08-1968 | Ve/Ve/Mo | Pis/Sag | Ari Leo | Ari | Can 
125 |14-06-1967| 00:37 | Mumbai | Aqu | Tau | 10-04-1992] Su/Ra/Sa | Tau/Sag | Tau {Mon| Gem | Tau | Aqu 
126 |05-12-1941} 07:13 | Gurgaon | Sco | Cap | 02-03-1968] Ju/Me/Ra | Gem/Tau | Sag Cap | Ari | Vir 
127 |23-08-1967]| 07:19 Delhi Leo | Sco | 04-05-1992} Me/Sa/Sa | Sco/Vir | Can | Mer} Tau | Sco | Ari] 
96 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ariasia ft tou 


ofattaa qerq 


atte site frare waa (car Sarhta gfzanior ) 


TJ — — 
‘alk 
$ 
8 re > |S be fe fo [> me b> zhele be he lle le le be le H> b> be be be be te be le fe be fe 
5 
> 
y Tey ia 
8 x ~e |< [> [<< P= | x |> x ie. x [>< | | >< [>< x [x x< | |< |< | >< [>< Pe Pe [> be [x [> 
aes | 
za a 4 
RE] ik e] aly ie = d a 
ol ola|o> Lj/olX&\o ao x is we SClalxl/Slol/& o}oej,o Ola £ 
- |e ZS 2 /S/- 2) 22) 2/2/Z/=|2Z|S]z]2/z/Z/=/ 2] §)2/ 3] §)2= yee ellie Slelzlzlele 
o /813 3 Bilal 3/—/S/xc/-IS]_e] s|N/e|S Ne] 2 3) DIS gz BINS] So Slals] 2/2 
8) o/x| six rl8i/xzlSi/Si/xzI-izr]sS elel|xcfe |r] s/o] ao] S| xf ZX] s|x}s o|x = D 
1 a1 @) gio Blala]al/Slis a/O a a w/A, >) c/s) + 6/4)}6)/4 a|o © 
Q Q Q a|~ 3 Q A=} 
< < < < < < < 
g i Re “HEEEEEE 
ie i aa PERE EE 
G i “FEEEEE a Ee ie i a li ol i a PEPPEREEeree 
£ > PERE REF bale ili me te be |e |e me | ER PER EER EEE 
z Bra ~~=hele lb [eh [x x |> Ime x ~> |x be [>< >< n> |>¢ Ise fe [o> [x Pe be [> fe be fe fe fe fe [> 
£ dddeuoads me fe ra aa uous He > EEE ~> be | bx [> [> 
r 
x a H> > [> fe [> pe |< > | me -> > fe be b> [> He > b> fe fe be fe [> shel le tet 
aL p> ial kal ical cal nal kel me [> he fe pe be |e pe fe be p> aid ee PRP ne be [> be be pe 
83 8 SISISISISISIS Blslsisis 3 SISISISISIH/QILVISI/SILISISISIQISINISI SAIS BR 
2 H(SJSPSlElElSPEPElSiHlepelelSl[SpeySl[efeyais 
PPPerr | 


97 


- ane at awe Wa 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao 


Additional cases 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


be pop |,TO8 | pos om | 6ha2 | vs | pk | DKN| uP | DP 
128 |20-02-1963| 20:15 Delhi 12-06-1992] Ra/Ra/Ju | Ari/Lib | Sag |Sun} Sag | Leo | Cap 
d20-20-0 20-10-1959] 16:05 | Punch Ju/Ju/Sa | LeofLeo |Gem|Sun]{ Lib } Lib | Sco 
130 [19-05-1953] 00:18 Delhi 30-09-1979 | Ke/Ra/Sa | Leo/Aqu | Cap }|Sun| Aqu | Lib | Can 
131 |31-07-1961} 06:23 Delhi 30-09-1979 | Sa/Ma/Ve | Ari/Tau | Sag | Sat | Cap | Gem | Cap 
132 [26-08-1963] 04:52 | Aqu | 18-11-1991] Sa/Ju/Me | Pis/Sag | Leo |Mer| Aqu | Sag | Cap 
133 [02-10-1957] 10:19 | vir [07-02-1980] Ra/Ra/Ve | Vir/Aqu | Ari [Mon] Cap | Lib | Pis 
134 [05-02-1956] 12:11 | Calcutta | Tau | Ari_ [27-04-1980] Me/Sa/Sa | Aqu/Can | Lib | Jup| Tau |Gem| Soo 
135 |31-08-1962| 07:35 | Patna Vir Ari | 27-04-1980 | Mo/Ve/Su | Lib/Tau | Can Pis | Leo | Cap 
136 |12-02-1956} 01:59 Delhi Sco | Lib [08-12-1979] Ju/Ju/Su | Leo/Tau | Sco | Jup| Tau | Leo | Cap 
137 |14-02-1956] 12:11 | Firozabad| Tau | Ari {04-09-1980} Sa/Ju/Ra | Aua/Tau | Sco |Sun| Lib | Gem |} Sco 
138 |06-03-1954] 05:45 | Dehradun} Aqu | Sco | 28-11-1979|Me/Mo/Sa| Tau/Leo | Vir | Ven} Can | Can | Leo 
139 |09-11-1960} 08:45 Solan Sco | Sag | 28-11-1979} Sa/Mo/Ra} Leo/Vir | Aqu | Jup|Gemj Sag | Tau 
140 |02-07-1969] 17:15 | Bhiwani | Sco | Sag {06-05-1992 | Ra/Mo/Me | Leo/Leo | Sag | Ven| Cap | Sag | Tau 
1414 117-10-1945} 13:35 | Allahabad} Cap | Tau | 18-11-1967) Ju/Sa/Ra | Lib/Sco | Tau }Sun| Lib |Gem]| Vir 
142 |10-08-1962| 15:10 | Meerut | Sco { Aqu | 10-11-1979] Ve/Ve/Ra | Ari/Leo | Sco |Mer| Tau | Leo | Cap 
143 |23-09-1952| 23:18 Ujjain Gem| Lib | 21-04-1968] Sa/Su/Mo | _Pis/Ari Lib | Pis | Leo 
144 {11-11-1960] 11:00 | Bhagalpur} Cap | Aqu | 16-051980 | Ve/Ve/Ju | Vir/Cap Sag | Can 
145 |30-12-1965] 16:00 | Amritsar | Tau | Leo | 03-09-1992] Me/Sa/Sa | Aua/Tau | Sco Lib | Lib | Pis 
146 }22-02-1958} 10:00 Delhi Ari | Can }22-01-1980| Ke/Me/Sa | Gem/Vir | Vir | Sat} Ari | Tau | Ari 
147 |12-12-1964} 09:25 | Nazira Cap | Can |09-10-1991| Ve/Ra/Ve | Vir/Sag | Cap |Ven} Can } Leo | Sco 
148 |19-09-1965] 11:45 Delhi Sco | Sco | 27-11-1991] Sa/Sa/Sa | Leo/Sco | Tau |Sun| Cap j Lib | Pis 
149 |04-11-1930] 04:11 | Etawah | Vir | Gem | 15-07-1956] Ve/Mo/Ma | Sag/Gem | Cap | Mar| Sco | Sag | Vir 
150 |18-09-1968| 18:00 icles Sag | Lib VelSaiMo | Lib/Lib | Cap|sun| Ani | Sco | Lib 
151 [09-04-1964] 10:05 | Lucknow [Gem| Sco [07-07-1992| Sa/SaiVe | Ari/Sco | Ari u | Leo | 
152 |01-06-1969} 18-02 Delhi Sco | Can | 20-09-1991] Ve/Sa/Ju | Leo/Gem | Sco Ari | Lib | Pis 
153 115-11-1960 or Dethi Lib | Gem | 15-01-1992] Ra/Ve/Sa | Tau/Cap | Pis |Ven| Tau | Sco } Leo 
154 |04-12-1960] 04:30 ier Lib | Cap Ra/Ve/Me | Sag/Cap | Pis |Mer] Can | Cap | Leo 
155 21-01-1954] 21:45 | Calcutta | Leo | Sco | 16-02-1968] Mo/Ra/Sa} Sag/Vir | Pis | Jup| Aqu | Cap | Lib 
[156 [08-09-1969] 21:15 Delhi Ari Vir | 09-10-1991 | Ke/Sa/Sa | Can/Leo | Pis | Sat} Leo |} Pis | Ari 
157 |02-09-1956} 20:10 Delhi Pis = 10-05-1980 | Ke/Me/Ve | Can/Tau | Aqu |Ven| Can | Leo | Vir 
158 |28-06-1964| 00:13 | Indore 15-12-1991 | Ra/Ve/Ra | Can/Aqua| Can | Ven Pis 
159 07 | Sm a | A isan] vee | cay [ ur cr Lee 
160 |29-07-1923| 22:57 | Katwa [ss.c2-1966] wwnive | Sootse_| Lip [ven] Can | Teu Ar 
161 [17-01-1934] 08:25 | Calcutta er cs = Gem 
162 [27-09-1928] 07:24 | Kottayam | Vir eae sans caneve [eee Te [ee Sco Le Tau 
163 [30-06-1935] 09:08 | Madras _| Leo a seats Ju/Saike | Sco/Sco Aqu 
164 |07-08-1943] 03:12 ean Gem| Sag | 15-09-1968] Ju/Ju/Ju | Aua/Pis Sat| Ari | Sco | Aqu 
165 |25-06-1942| 11:15 Delhi Leo | Sco | 12-12-1967] Sa/Ra/Ra | Sag/Pi | Can asa Aqu | Cap j Leo 
166 [07-03-1971] 15:45 | Sirsi__ | Can | Lib [02-06-2004] Me/Ju/Ju | Ari/Sag Lib | Can 
167 |08-03-1967| 17:40 | Jodhpur { Leo | Can [21-11-1991] Ju/Ju/Ju | Sco/Pis an Ari 
98 Guide Shri K.N. Rao + Arie at Fete 


afattrs Seri 


aie atte fare aaa (um aarhrer feat ) 


— 
3 > [Po Pe <b be pe > be [> be fe > fe [> [xX 
8 * p< x b> > |x |x Pe fe [> x [x 
a Pl 
- i Dj 
slo Ss 4 
= = x x I xilxilx 
[= rj=x xrsyi x = rio 
5 lal 2/2 515 RlElZ/S|S/S|Sl/SIX 23a(N wl5|Sl|S|N NINN Blo5}|a 
as oD = 
e e 
g £ 
< < 


145 
150 
151 
152 
153 
154 
155 
156 
157 
459 
160 


164 
165 
166 
167 


99 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  ariegfa ai deue ca 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Case TOB Vim Chara 
study] 298 Jintirs.| POB | tag} bis | com | Dasha | Dasha | YS |OK{OKN| UP | oP 


168 |05-11-1940] 04:59 Indore Vir Vir Ju/Ve/Sa | Pis/Tau } Sco |Mer| Leo | Cap | Tau 
169 }29-10-1960] 01:52 [_Sangrur | Leo | Gem | 01-12-1991} Ju/Su/Ma | Sag/Ari | Can|Mer| Can | Vir | Lib 
170 |10-04-1931} 03:40 |Chandausi} Aqu | Sag | 15-05-1957| Ra/Sa/Ju | Ari/Sco | Cap |Mon]| Pis | Cap | Lib 
171 |16-09-1919] 19:30 Delhi Leo | Leo | 19-11-1977| Ju/VenMa | Lib/Pis | Cap | Mo | Sco } Tau | Aqu 
172 |05-02-1945j 06:55 | Allahabad | Cap | Pis | 14-07-1980] Sa/Ju/Me | Leo/Gem | Sag | Jup | Aqu | Gem | Cap 


173 |09-01-1964| 05:55 | Allahabad | Sag | Can [14-07-1980] Sa/SaiMe | Leo/Vir | Sag [Mar] Cap | Pis [Gem 


New 
174 127-01-1950) 04:26 | Rochelle, | Sco | Pis | 23-08-1980] Ra/Sa/Ju | Can/Sag | Can|Sun| Tau | Ari | Vir 
NewYork 


175 |25-08-1968| 05:00 | Dethi [Can | Aqu 
176 07-01-1943] 22:46 | N@9PL" | vir | cap 


24-11-1991 | Mo/Ve/Su | Pis/Sco | Leo { Sat} Ari | Lib { Can 
19-04-1968 | Ra/Me/Ve | Cap/Tau | Ari |Ven| Aqu | Ari | Vir 


(Mah) 
177 |26-09-1950] 16:10 ee Aqu | Lib | 19-04-1968} Me/Ra/Mo | Gem/Leo | Aqu | Sat DEN | Tau | Lib 
178 |09-08-1956] 05:01 | SPZ'#2 | can | Lip |28-01-1980| Ra/Ra/Sa| AriPis | Ari {Mar| Can] Lib | Vir 


179 }03-10-1959] 04:10 | Jaunpur | Leo Lib | 15-05-1992] Ju/Me/Ra | Lib/Lib | Tau |Jup]| !eo | Sco | Lib 
{— 

180 | 14-12-1961] 23:50 Delhi Leo | Sco | 09-05-1987 |Me/Me/Me| Cap/Lib | Vir | Sat| Aqu | Vir | Sag 

181 |03-12-1958] 22:15 | Lucknow | Can | Aqu Su/Ju/Mo | Tau/Tau | Ari | Me| Ari | Gem] Sco 


182 |22-01-1978 san] ae Sag | Leo |25-11-2007| Sat/Me/Ve | Can/Leo | Aqu | Jup} Sco | Pis | Gem 


183 22-01-4978] 23:30 Palwal Vir | Can | 08-12-2004 | Sa/Ma/Ra [ Cap/Cap | Aqu | Jup| Sco |Gem| Vir 
184 |23-04-1958) 02:17 Ajmer Cap | Can | 23-12-1984 | Ra/Ma/Me | Leo/Sco | Cap | Sat] Ari | Leo | Pis 
185 |30-08-1960) 18:30 | Kanpur Aqu | Aqu_ | 31-01-1990] Ve/Sa/Ve | Leo/Aqu } Tau | Jup} Ari | Sco | Leo 
486 |28-07-1942} 18:11 | Pocatello | Sag | Ari |22-05-1966| Ju/Ju/Mo | Vir/Aqu | Vir | Mar Tau | Tau | Leo 
187 |06-08-1955) 02:56 | Jaipur-Raj| Gem | Cap | 23-12-1984} Sa/Me/Ju | Sco/Leo | Sco |Ven| Lib | Vir | Aqu 
188 |17-08-1936| 02:05 |Lahore-Pa] Gem} Sco | 07-10-1968] Su/Ra/Mo | Sag/Ari | Ari |Sun| Ari | Sco | Lib 
189 G7-10-1968| 04:00 | amritsar | Lib | Tau [07-10-1968 Jutsu | Aquicap Sag Tar Can | Cap | Aqu 
190 |24-07-1953] 01:30 Delhi Tau Pis | 03-12-1991 | Mo/Me/Mo | Sag/Cap | Leo | Mo] Ari | Lib | Pis 
191 |18-05-1962] 02:50 Delhi Pis Vir | 18-05-1991 | Sa/Me/Mo | Can/Sco | ari | Ven} Lib | Sag | Cap 


192 |25-01-1955] 00-41 | Seounder 
abad 


193 |29-05-1956] 08:42 Ujjain Gem | Tau ]06-12-1979} Ra/Ju/Ke | Pis/Gem | Vir | Jup| Ari | Can] Ari 
194 |02-09-1961] 13:40 Delhi Sco | Aqu Ju/Sa/Ve VirVir | Sag | Sat| Cap | Ari | Vir 
Ju/Ju/Ra | Lib/Can | Leo |Sun} Leo |} Leo | Sco 


195 |19-03-1965) 04:00 Delhi Cap {| Tau 

196 |02-12-1962] 01:45 Secuneer Vir | Pis | 17-11-1991] Ra/Ve/Ve | Cap/Lib | Lib | Mo] Pis | Aqu | Cap 
197 |22-12-1958] 02:10 Delhi Lib Lib | 04-02-1980 | Mo/Ra/Me | Pis/Gem | Cap | Sat] Tau | Cap | Aris 
198 |13-11-1950] 23:30 | Ajmer | Can | Sag | 03-02-1968] Mo/Ra/Me| ArifTau }| Tau |Mer} Leo |} Ari | Tau 


199 |16-04-1944| 06:40 | Allahabad | Ari Asi | 08-021968 | Ra/Ra/Mo | Can/Pis |Gem]| Mo | Cap | Sco | Leo 
200 }27-09-1967] 17:30 | Muktsar | Aqu | Ari | 08-07-1992) Sa/Me/Ju | Ari/Ari | Leo | Jup} Ari | Tau |} Lib 


Lib | aqu {18-411-1979; Ra/Su/Me j; Pis/Sag | Sco | Jup{ Can | Tau | Aqu 


San |, 
201 |05-05-1957] 10:00 A Gem] Ari }08-07-1992| Me/Sa/Ma| Ari/Cap | Vir | Mo] Can} Pis | An 
Augastine | | 
202 |03-12-1950) 16:00 | Kotkapura] Ari Sco | 30-03-1980] Ra/Sa/Ve | Can/Leo | Leo | Mer] Tau | Cap | Sag 
- — 
1503 |29.09-1956| o6:00 |Hoshiareu|” yi, | pis |30-03-1980| Merveimo | Sco/Cap | Aqu] Mo} Can | Lib | cap 


r 
204 |25-01-1956 09:58 | Jullundhur Pis | Can | 27-04-1980} Ju/Me/Ju | Gem/Pis | Tau | Jup| Tau | Leo | Tau 


100 Guide Shri K.N. Rao + aria at dun 


atm ait frame aua (ua darfr gfeator) 


FEEEEHEF rE alice a alike Ka 
Bedddeddedae ol Z inl al 
3 
4 x KR —! ra — 4 
ag)o o i a = i =a 
> oD 9 D %) o = > pane © 
rd c = = 
s [Slsls x|x|o 5 s Z/SlZElS|S| S| SIZIS/S(S/S/Sl<( S15] SE 
© |el2/3 No] 3 8 = S]H1OlO]%] a] oj) =loj=l] SIRjxry Sle] sy 
a; 2) a = a =\9 4+ i a Oia ed 
Ela Q xe} Q Q 
< 2 x < < < < 
roa) 
+] T (eb 
rage Dice % |X |< [XK P< Pe P< P< [> pe x Pe x 
<I> > x > 
r r 7 
me be > be > 
aka a ee cat 
++ = ee ae + 
He | ag me be Prt 
eo p< x me 1K ae 
> b> > ald Ka 
ai 
ake a al ke Ka 
- 
Ola! ol~ orm = = 
alalels|s elels s|9|3|3|8/8/5|8/8/8|5|8/8/3/8/8|5/8/8/slsiaig 
a a a L 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao « anievit sit Some Ta 


101 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
as DOB pTOe. POB | Lag} Dig | com | a core vs | DK]DKN| uP | DP 
205 |10-09-1956] 12:35 | Hathras | Sco | Sag A a ee ee Leo | Ari | Vir 
206 |04-12-1958] 15:35 | Indore Ari | Leo | 20-7-1980 | Ma/Ma/Me| Gem/Lib | Sag| Mer} Ari | Tau | Sag 
207 |30-01-1963] 07:38 | Ambala | Cap | Can | 01-12-1991] Ve/Su/Ju | Leo/Cap | Cap|Sun} Tau | Ari | Sco 
209 [18-09-1964] 16:00 | Meerut | Cap | Tau Sco [Sun] Cap | Lib | Can 


210 |20-12-1961] 17:15 | “P79! Gem | Lib |04-10-1990| RaiMo‘Ke | Cap/Can | vir [Mar] Lib | Tau | Aqu 


211 |01-04-1974] 22:32 | Pune | Sco} Vir | 23-04-2004] Ve/Ve/Ve | Gem/Tau| Pis | Ven} Lib | Gem] Sco 
212 24-03-1952] 18:40 | Pune Vir | Ari | 24-03-1979] Sa/Ra/Me | Cap/Ari | Pis |Sun} Lib | Lib | Pis 
213 |13-02-1949] 07:10 | Nainital | Aqu | Sco | 08-05-1977] Ve/Me/Ve | Gem/Pis |Gem|Sun]| Lib | Pis | Leo 
214 |15-06-1966] 19:30 Delhi Cap | Tau | 30-11-1992} Ra/Me/Su | Tau/Sag | Vir |Sun] Lib | Sco | Gem 
215 |18-02-1967| 22:01 Delhi Vir Vir Ra/Mo/Ve | Sag/Pis | Tau | Ven} Can | Leo } Sco 
216 [21-04-1926] 02:48 | London {| Aqu | Lib | 20-11-1947] Ra/Mo/Ma} Ari/Lib | Tau | Sat} Can} Vir | Sag 


; Lusaka — 
217 |10-10-1978} 21:50 Zambia 


218 {12-12-1965} 08:49 | Mirzapur | Cap | Cap | 15-05-1990 | Ke/Mo/Mo | Leo/Aqu | Sco | Jup} Sco | Cap | Ari 


Gem | Gem | 04-12-2004} RaMe/Ra | Aqu/Lib | Cap|Mer} Lib | Pis | Aqu 


102 Guide Shri K.N. Rao % arigsia at dou a 


orate sed 


wife ait fears aaa (ue daft gfeator) 


03 


02 


V 
x 


x 


0O1 


P8& 


P7 


P6 


P5 


12H 


7H 
Aspecting 7L 


NR 
Connected 


7H 
NR 


12H 


12H 


Lagna 
NR 


2H 


Vv Aspecting LL 


P4 


P3 


Vv 


P2 


P4 


Case 
study 
205 
206 
207 
208 
209 
210 
214 


212 
213 
214 
215 
|_ 216 


217 
218 


103 


& aie at Sow Wa 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


Chapter — 5 


Conditional Dasha 


Dash System 

Dasha system, basically, means ‘Timing of 
the fate of human beings based on the position 
and condition of the planets at birth’. 

Horoscopic chart, which gives the planetary 
positions at the time of birth of a person displays 
a static picture whereas the dasha adds the 
dynamic aspect to it. The promise which is 
indicated in a horoscope attains fruitions when 
an appropriate dasha operates. The dasha, thus, 
helps in timing the events. Dasha system is a 
tool unique to the Hindu Astrology. Dasha is 
either Nakshatra based like Vimshottari, Yogini 
etc. or Rashi based like Chara and Sthira dasha of 
Jaimini Astrology. Then there are dasha which 
are combinations like Kaal Chakra Dasha, where 
counting is done on the basis of nakshatra but 
the dashas proceed according to rashis. 

Our Sir, Shri K.N. Rao, bestows the title of 
“King of Nakshatra dasha” to Vimshottari Dasha, 
whereas Kaal Chakra Dasha is the “Emperor of 
All Dashas” according to him, and even if the 
degree of Moon is wrong by a second in then 
there is a possibility of huge errors. 

It is said that Maharishi Parashar has given 
54 dasha and 


Jaimini Rishi 44  eithchat 23-12-02 07:28:00 


‘Navamsha (spouse) 


(Mandook dahsa); 10" L in 10° H (Chatursheeti 
Sama Dasha) and so on. 

Using the conditional dasha is what our 
teacher says, sending of a patient for various 
tests before the final prognosis. Our faculty 
members have worked on a few of these dasha 
systems as mentioned in 2 chapter. We have 
quoted from their books the techniques of 
applying these dashas. In this chapter we present 
for you 2 examples of each of those dashas 
namely. 

>» Dwisaptati Sama Dasha 

Chatursheeti Sama Dasha 

>» Dwadshottari Dasha 
Shashtihayaani Dasha 
Shodashottary Dasha. 


vv 


I. Dwisaptati Sama Dasha 


Ex. | Charan Singh; (Ref. page 81 of book 
Predicting through Dwisaptati Sama Dasha) 
DOB - 23-12-1902; TOB - 07:23 am.; POB - 
Meerut (U.P); DOM ~ 25-6-1925 

Marriage took place in the dasha of Sun/ 
Mercury. Sun is the ninth lord and is placed in 


Transit Marriage-25.06,1925 


dashas. Some 
dashas have been 
classified as 
conditional dasha 
as they are applied 
only when planets 


are positioned in a 
chart in a some 


sa | 


unique style e.g. 


more then 


ry 
ms) 
= 
+++ 
Uv 
N 


me 


x“ 


P4 | P5 | P6 ee pe | o1 [021 03 
v Lviv vty t.>vly 


planets in Kendra 
104 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao « arias sit dour w 


sate ait frare ane (war darfrar ghee ) 
Birth Chart 06-07-46 07:46:00 


his lagna and is 


Navamsha (spouse) 


er Sea 


Transit Marriage-05,11.1977 


conjoined with 
the seventh 


lord, Mercury. 
Both of them are 
aspecting the 
seventh house, 


which is the 
house of 
marriage and is 
what is 


traditionally 
known as ‘Kalatra Sthan’. Sun is second lord and 
Mercury gets placed there. 
VD-Rahu/Sun/Jupiter; CD-Leo/Virgo; VS- 
Lib; DK-Saturn; DP-Gem; UP-Cancer; DKN-Aqu: 


Ex. 2 George W. Bush; (Ref. page 122 of book 
Predicting through Dwisaptati Sama Dasha) 
DOB - 06-07-1946; TOB — 07:46 am.; POB — 
New Haven CT USA.; DOM - 05-11-1977 

He married Laura Welch, a school librarian. 
Dasha was Moon/Venus/Sun. Moon is lagna lord 
and Venus is aspecting his seventh house. Moon 
is with second lord of navamsha horoscope also. 
Moon is aspected by his seventh lord Saturn. In 
Navamsha Moon is with Second tord and 
pratyantra dasha lord was Sun, who is the second 
lord of his birth chart and is again placed in the 
second house of navamsha. 

VD-]/Me/J; CD-Cap/Lib; VS-Sagi; DK-Sat; 
DP-Cap; UP-Leo; DKN-Leo: 


ll. Chatursheeti 
Sama Dasha 


Birth Chart 11-09-68 12:45:00 


Ex. | (Ref. page 


Navamsha (spouse) 


— Shahajanpur; DOM - [8-11-1995 
He got married in CSS of Mars/Venus/Sun. 
Mars is lagna lord and is aspecting 4° house 


‘while Venus is the seventh lord. In Navamsha 


chart Mars is aspecting fifth house, fifth lord 
Mercury and Venus is aspected by the Lagna 
Lord, Saturn 

In Navamsha chart, Marsh is aspecting the 
fifth house and its lord Mercury and itself being 
aspected by the eleventh lord Jupiter. Venus is 
placed in the fifth house in association with lord 
Mercury and is aspecting the eleventh house. 

VD-Mo/Sat/Ju; CD-Vir/Ari; VS-Cap; DK-Sat; 
DP-Cap; UP-Leo; DKN-Ari: 


Ex. 2 Sanjay Gandhi; (Ref. page 99 of book 
Predicting through Chatursheeti Sama Dasha) 
DOB - 14-12-1946; TOB — 09:27 AM.; POB -— 
Dethi; DOM — 29-09-1974 


He got married in CSS of Jupiter/Venus/ 


Transit Marriage-18.14.1995 


77 of book || 

Predicting 

through | | 

Chatursheeti 

a LICE 
DOB - [1-09- 

1968; TOB - P1 | P2 | P3 | P4 | P5 | P6 | P7 | P8 01 ‘| 02] 03 
12:45 am.; POB V vy [x [Vv | ¥ v[v [Vv Connected| Vv | ¥ 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao « ariesia st Sours wa 


105 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 14-12-46 09:27:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


Transit Marriage-29.09.1974 with Venus in 


[Pi | p2 | pa | pa | P5 | Pe | Pr | Pe | 
a a 


Taurus (fifth 
house). Venus is 
karaka of 
marriage. — In 
Navamsha chart 
Venus is 
aspected by the 
Lagna lord, 


Saturn. Venus Is 
placed in the fifth 


2H V V 


house (own 


Mercury. Jupiter is associated with karak of | house). 


marriage, Venus. Jupiter is also aspecting the 
seventh house from Moon and Venus. In 
Navamsha Chart Jupiter is aspecting Lagna and 
Lagna Lord, Saturn. Jupiter is also associated 


Ili. Dwadashottari Dasha 


Ex. 1; (Ref. page 35 of book Predicting through 
Dwadashottari Dasha} DOB — 21-08-1979; 
TOB — 03:00 am.; POB - Dethi; 
DOM — 14-01-2004 

On 14.01.2004 this TV presenter was 
married. The dasha was Mars/Moon. Mars is in 
the ascendant aspecting the 7H. Mars is the 7L 
of Navamsha. Moon is the 2L of natal chart in 
conjunction with 7L Jupiter and in the Navmasha 
Moon is placed in the 7H. 


a Chart ear a 03:00: aa 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Ex. 1 
a page 35 


Dasha lord Venus and Jupiter are placed 
with eleventh lord Mars in the fifth house are 
aspecting the eleventh house in Navamsha chart. 

VD-Moon/Mars/Sun; CD-Lib/Vir; VS-Sco; | 
DK-Mars; DP-Virgo; UP-Leo; DKN-Taurus: 


VD-K/R/Me; CD-Cap/Aq; VS-Sco; DK- 
Venus; DP-Aqu; UP-Sco; DKN-Ari: 


Ex. 2 Naina Devi: (Ref. page 39 of book 
Predicting through Dwadashottari Dasha) DOB 
— 27-09-1917; TOB — 01:38 am.; POB — 
Calcutta; DOM — May 1935 

She got married in Saturn/Moon in May 
1935 in 7L/LL dasha. 9L and karak Jupiter is 
aspecting Sun in D/9 and she was blessed witha 
son during Sat/Sun. 

VD-J/Me/Mo; CD-Cap/Pisces; VS-Tau; DK- 
Sun; DP-Cap; UP-Lib; DKN-Ari; 


Transit Mariage-14.01.2004 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + aria st aor wa 


sifee sit faare ana (ue daria gfeator) 


Birth Chart 27-09-17 01:38:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Fert Ber 


Transit Marriage-May-1936 Navmsha chart 


gives clues to 
matters related to 


Ex, 2 
Naina Devi 


L 


Pi_| P2 ee 03 
V Xx Vv v v Vv Vv 8H Vv Vv 


spouse Venus is 
7™ lord of birth 
chart and is places 
in 7" house of 
navamsha. Venus 
is aspected by 
Lagna Lord 
Jupiter. Moon is 
8" lord of 


lV. Shasti Hayani Dasha 


Ex. 1; (Ref. page 50 of book Shasti Hayani 
Dasha) DOB - 06-08-1958; TOB — 05:40 am.; 
POB - Lat: 26N13 Long: 78E10 DOM - 30-10- 
1983 


VD-R/R/R; CD-Lib/Can; VS-Sco; DK-Moon; 


DP-Vir; UP-Lib; DKN-Ari: 


Birth Chart 06-08-58 05:40:00 


Navamshe (spouse) 


Navamsha and placed in 4 house. This sub 
period of 8" lord shown obsticles. The marriage 
was fixed to be held in Moon Pratyanter and 
Moon Anter. This had to be postponed due to 
accident of husband in Sept till the pratyanter of 
Rahu arrived. 

Vimshottari dasha was Venus/Rahu/Mars. 
The marriage ceremony was fixed for 27" Nov 
1972 in the pratyanter of Moon. Moon is 8" lord 
of Navamsha and 


Transit Marriage-30.12.1983 


the event had to be 
postponed. Venus 
is 7° lord of birth 
cahrt and a natural 
marriage giver. In 
Navamsha Rahu is 


aspected by Lagna 
Lrd Jupiter by 


retrograde aspect. 


Pi P3 PA 
Vv 


01 [ o2 | O03 |Rahu is a giver of 
6H | Vv [ V_|marriage and mars 


Ex. 2; (Ref. page 86 


Birth Chart 21-11-51 08:00:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


of book Shasti 
Hayani Dasha) 
DOB - 21-11-1951; 
TOB — 08:00 AM.; 
POB - Lat: 28N59 
Long: 77E42 DOM 
- 08-02-1973 


Transit Marriage-08.02.1973 
= 


Marriage took 
place on 8 Feb 1973, 


in SHD of Venus/| P14 


Moon/Rahu. The] ¥ 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arte st aor wa 


P3_ | P4 | P5 ae = [01 02 | 03 
an e {* a v Vv | 11H Vv v 
107 


Case Studies 


is laced with 7 lord in Navamsha and aspect by 


Lagns Lord. 


V. Shodashottari Dasha 


Ex. 1; (Ref. page 21 of book Shodashottari 


Dasha) DOB ~ Birth Chart 03-07-76 03:30:00 
03-07-1976; TOB 
~ 03:30 am.; POB Ke Ju 
- London; DOM - 
04-05-2003 ae 
She was Ref. page 21 


married on 4" May 
2003 in the SSD of 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


VD-V/Sat/J; CD-Pisces/Sco; VS-Sco; DK- 
Moon; DP-Gem; UP-Cap; DKN- Ari: 


VD-Ma/Mo/Sat; CD-Sag/Vir; VS-Lib; DK- 
Me; DP-Tau; UP-Sagi; DKN-Lib: 


Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-04.05.2003 


Moon/Jupiter. In 
Navamsha Moon 


Me Mo 


is placed in 3 } P41 


[02 | 03 


house with lagna 


| 
EPS TR RTRTS ae 


VL 


lord and aspected 


by Rashi 7" lord Mars. Mars is also 8" lord so | Ex. 2: (Ref. page 55 of book Shodashottari 


created some trouble but no harm. 


Birth Chart 24-01-77 04:06:00 


Navamsha (spouses) 


Dasha) DOB - 24-01-1977; TOB - 04:06 am.; 
POB - Dethi; DOM - | 1-03-2000 


Transit Martiage-11.12.2000 VD-Me/Ven/ 


Jup; CD-Can/Sag; 
VS-Sco; DK-Mo; 


DP-Sco; UP-Gem; 
DKN-Leo: 


108 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + amfegia st owe va 


vatfre att faate ara (ua daria gficentor ) 


Tera RTT 


Chapter — 6 


Observations 


The Indian Premier League (IPL) matches 
are the hot topic of discussion in all homes, 
public places, meets etc. So it popping up during 
our astrology classes was a natural phenomenon. 
In his typical humorous style sir narrated the 
episode where the world’s finest spinner and 
captain of Rajasthan Royals infused so much of 
confidence in his new comer and relatively 
inexperienced baler that he went ahead to take 
the wickets of some of the finest world class 
batsmen. This not only led them to winning the 
match it has also taken them from the position 
of under-dogs to the top of the point tally. 

In our class, during our research session, sir 
instilled in us so much confidence and aroused 
our curiosity so much that all of us started looking 
at the horoscopes with a renewed interest. This 
resulted in a lot of observations by our co- 
tesearchers and these are listed below: 


Observation by B. Shobha: Role of PDL, 
Moon and Rahu 
The following three observations made by 
Shobha are based on the analysis of the transit 
positions of planets at the time of marriage, in 
107 charts. 
— = The first observation is about the role of PD 
lord at the time of marriage. 
In 70 cases out of 107 PD lord was found to 
have PAC connection with Lagna/LL, 7H/L 
of D1 or D9, in the transit chart. PD lord 
connecting with lagna/LL was found to be 
more prevalent. In 20 other cases, PD lord 
was observed to be near lagna or 7H, i.e. in 
2/12 houses or 6/8 houses. 
This observation, thus, applied in 90 out of 
107 cases i.e. 84.4%. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ® ariesia a deus Ta 


Observation by Arti Malick: Connection with 

Nakshatra Lords 

@ = Nakshatra lord of LL; 7th L and VS forms a 
PAC in transit with Lagna, LL, 7th H and 
7th L. The results were as under — 
Nakshatra lord of 7L PAC in DI ~ 75% and 
in DO — 83.33% 
Nakshtra lord of LL forming PAC in 
— 52.77% and in DO — 55.55% 
Nakshatra lord of VS the success rate was 
55.55% in D1 and 63.88% in D9. 


Di 


Observation by G.K. Joshi’s: Importance of 
transit of 7 L and Venus 

While working for the research of this book 
the importance of 7" L and Venus during 
marriage became very prominent. Hence, their 
connection with the relevant bhavas and planets 
should also be obvious. According to 
Phaladeepika— The 7" L or Venus in transit (on 
the day of marriage) is posited in the rasi or trine 
of rasi where LL is posited in D! or D9 of natives 
birth horoscope. 

When this observation was applied in 39 
horoscopes it was noticed that it gave 100% 
positive results in 22 horoscopes whereas in 13 
horoscopes it had transited from there a few 
days ago. It did not apply in 4 of the cases. 


Example: DOB ~ 09-11-1931; TOB - 02:29 
pm.; POB - Jodhpur; DOM - 27-04-1957 

In D1 the LL Sat is posited in Sagittarius 
and in D9 it is posited in Scorpio. At the time of 
marriage Venus is posited in Aries i.e. in kona 
from Lagnesh Saturn in D1 and 7" L Moon is 
posited in Pisces which is in trine from lagnesh 
Saturn in D9. Thus this observation applies on 
this horoscope. 


113 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
Birth Chart 09-11-31 14:29:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Timing-27.04.1957 that Up Pada (UP) 
forms a relationship 
with Vimshottari 
Dasha lords as well. 
UP is the pada for 
12° H and 
significator for 
relatives. It was 
noticed that 
marriage takes 
Observation by Rishi Kapoor: Relationship of | place during the dasha of planets aspected by 
UP with Vimshottari dasha- both at the time | (Jaimini aspect) UP or its dispositor when this 
of marriage. observation was applied on 40 horoscopes, it 
During the course of research it was noticed | gave 75% positive results. 


Birth Chart 31-12-65 00:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Timing-03.07.1985 


Mo Ra JuR Sa Ra “| Ve 
Sa Me 

MaVe As Su Lo 
Su Ke Me As Mo | Ke JuR 


Example: DOB — 31-12-1965; TOB — 00:30 hrs.; POB — Laningrad (Russia); 
DOM - 03-07-1985 

VD-Me/Sat/Ketu; UP-Aries; 

This person got married during dasha of Mercury/Sat/Ketu also in Scorpio. 


114 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ area a aout. wa 


Conclusions 


The study was conducted on 218 charts. In 
all the cases marriage had taken place and the 
date of marriage and other data has been given 
along with the result of applying the parameters 
on the charts. 

The results of the research have been 
tabulated for the parameters from P 1 to P 8 
below. It was noted that 
@ Paramater 1 [Connection of Vimshottari 


Mahadasha (MD), Antardasha (AD) lords | 


with Lagna or 7H or Lagna Lord (LL) or 7L 
of D1/D9 or planets associated with them] 
applied to all the cases (100%). 

@ Parameter 2 [Chara Antar Dasha making a 
connection with Darakarak (DK), Darakarak 
Navamsha (DKN), Dara Pada (DP), Up-Pada 
(UP) lagna or 7th lord of Dt or D9] applied 
to 210 charts (96%). 

@ Parameter 3 [Transiting Jupiter’s aspects on 
Vivah Saham] applied to 167 cases (77%). 

@ Parameter 4 [The Saturn and Jupiter 
activating Lagna, 7H, LL, 7L] applied to 
186 cases (85%). 

@ Parameter 5 [LL and the 7L of native making 
aconnection in transit] applied to 214 cases 


Cases it applied 
Parameter 


Numbers In percentage 


P14 218 100% 


P4 186 85% 


PS 214 98% 
PS 149 68% 
P7 153 70% 
P8 128 59% 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao arte at aoe wa 


(98%). 

e@ Parameter 6 [Jupiter activating natal Venus 
in male charts and natal Mars in female 
chart] applied in 149 charts (68%). 

@ Parameter 7 [Sun and/or most planets 
around Lagna or 7H] applied to 153 cases 
(70%). 

e Parameter 8 [LL transiting in/near 7H or 7L 
transiting in/near Lagna] applied to 128 
cases (59%). 

The above is graphically represented as ina 
chart below — 


The data can be view from another 
perspective also. We find that in 18.81% cases 
all the eight parameters applied. In 34.40% cases 
seven parameters applied. In 32.57% cases six 
parameters applied. In 8.72% cases five 
Parameters applied and in 5.5% cases four 
parameters applied. If we see it in another way 
we can say that in 85.78% cases six or more 
parameters apply and in 95.50% cases five or 
more parameters apply. This indicates how 
accurately these parameters apply to timings of 
marriage. This is depicted in Tabular and graphical 
form below. 


117 


Conclusions 


No. of In Cumulative 
Parameters | cases | Percentage | Percentage 
that apply 
ear 41 [ 18.81% RAE 
Seven 75 34.40% 53.21% 
L Six 71 32.57% 85.78% 
Five 19 8.72% 94.50% 
Four 12 5.50% 100.00% 
118 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


It may be seen that these are dependable 
Parameters can be applied universally to all 
charts. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aria at sup 7 


Timing of Marriage and Astrology {a Scientific Approach) Books by Vani Publications 


Books by vani Publications 


SI.No. English Title Price(Rs.) 
1, Ups and Downs in Career 

2. The Nehru Dynasty.. 

3. Astrology, Destiny and the Wheel of Time ........eeccccsscessssesseesssesnecssseestessseccsuesssvessuesssesssiatisseusseanenesiee 250 
4, Dips into Divinity, Astrology & HIStory ......ccecccceeseessssseenssseesneessessecsecseessssavessessecssessecsscaesencsseesassevessnees 180 
5. Learn Successful Predictive Techniques of Hindu AStrology .........ccccccsecsessessesssecssessessecsnrearseesenseess 180 
6. Karma & Rebirth in Hindu Astrology ...........escessceccessssessesscessesnecosssnccsscstensecsecssessnsatscarsivvesecsuesensensenneees 180 
i Learn Hindu Astrology Easily 

8. Predicting through Jaimini’s Chara Dasha ... 

9. Planets & Children 

10. Predicting Through Karakamsha and Jaimini’s Mandook Dasha ........cscccccccesccssceseesestesccessesecsecsens 180 
1. Enigmas’ in: Astrology cco iesakatidtie Sianistiensleascaatdok aeheashdecd sicenn Oy ca thconhal tat Meee 150 
12. Tried Techniques of Predictions; Some Memoirs of an Astrologer ........ccccsccsccscsessesesasscsessessesseeeeeae 100 
13. Finer Techniques of Astrological Predictions VOW. | o.....cececceesccccssesccesecstssesseusansesreecevsassvsvensansececaneaees 200 
14. Finer Techniques of Astrological Predictions Vol. II... 

15. Saadhe Saati 

16. Pamous. Women: (out:of- print) 20-3 ces2sc. 2 abanet gos th, Res sayeetieineet nl eaaté wien eaten 250 
17. Successful Marriages with Jupiter in Simha (bilingual)... ...c.sccceccecccccssecsescoecovecsesseesunssecsenseeessereavens 80 
18. Predicting through Dwisaptati Sama Dasha ..........cscsscssscssessesscscsersessveseesecsesensuvsvssceesarsaceavateaveaneanese 150 
19. Timing Events through Vimshottari Dasha ............ecccccsseecccsssseeececseseevesesesssscsvantacsesusevaverensevanareanacsnes 150 
20. Risks and Tricks in Astrological Predictions 

21. Predict Effectively through Yogini Dasha .. 

22. Predicting through Chatursheeti Sama Dasha o.........ccscecesscssessesenseescesnecnecsneesessecsseesersecaressssenssayens 150 
23. Keel: Serpe YO ss. cccdeuete sce nae tose acsnuj atk os Veer vabedevdit ntcuzesuesictitesaad astahhates seal eid dees mcadnceadi eh Sieteles 150 
24. Yogis, Destiny and the Wheel of Time .......cccccsessssessesestessesseseeseesssvesseseessavescesseseeseesssicsnsnesseaneseeemaneese 250 
25. ‘Astrology. Of: Professions ciscsessssacsesazraecses ted seaeeviacasvee ce bescdasgiced. Sesst ot ssvabiuadabaasasebecidsaastcnacnieestelddvieled 

26. Predicting through Jaimini’s Sthira Dasha 

27. Predicting through Shodashottari Dasha .... 

28. Pattakt: -RISHE Ghanian sscciucescessosesciesstoveekaeseseves eavessedaghsastii Rantala scttsdtendaa desserts oiee ter at eae eek 120 
29. Predicting through Shasti Hayani Dasha oo... cesecccsesecsessessessseeseesessessesscsssassecsecseavesescsesseaseaseteees 120 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ anes ot Four Ta 121 


Books by Vani Publications Timing of Marriage and Astrology (a Scientific Approach) 


30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44, 
45. 
46. 
47. 


Jyothisha; the Super Science. 


Predicting through Dwadashottari Dasha oo... ecccsssssecsessesessesecsessesveseeseeussesassacsacsncerarseeceveavenseanease 125 
Delayed Marriage of Girls (bilingual) oo... ese cccesesecessesesessesensencosnsansnesesteueaessesseuseevantavsenscacsuvansase 120 
The First Born Child (bilingual) 2.0... ceecescsessecescesseesesseneeneeasstesteseensaesessesuessesesseessentsneaseatsessstseaenes 150 
Astrology: and: Faith: (Bilin gual) 3, .i.cocfscsucssvescesecuavasciecacevssckasedovsasds tit ribesatteaniosauaasissadivadgivestene Bacaciseaale 120 
Planets Bi EGucatlonn siccsis-tse.sevacusngcnsncad ceentses deueadenenseraccedscvissutve tohdbvantesstenpenisiivan feoeishevate creed 1200 


The Drekkana ... 


Single Woman and Astrology (bilingual) .........ccccesesesteseescenteceresesseeneresoeseeseesssntentencsesaecatsaeseeseasecerease 150 
Practical Application of Nadi Techniques .........ccceecceeceeeeseesstensseeeseceessacseseacsesescsescaceeesecenseeeennaee 150 
Astrology and Timing of Marriage (bilingual) 0.0... cc ceceeecesseeeeseceeeesecsestensneseeesteseanersasseneessneaneacsesee 200 
Indian Marriages in Modern, Urban, Educated Society... .ccccccsecscscscenseececsescseececseseevsesestameecseecee 250 
Time Tested Techniques of Mundane Astrology 0... cccccceesccesssceesseesesssesesesesesessessasessecesceseceeseseeanves 300 


Unraveling Puzzle of Longevity ... 
Predict through Jaimini’s Navamsha Dasha... ccececccsceseeseeeeecsceeeeescsesesesenecseaeseessussesnansecsestessesesise 80 
Adoption: (Dilinguall cis.ce- 22: 2:80.20 oon dices cues coe Stade iets teed teateuatieed lee, hea Tacecsecnivesetensemtcenn as BO 
Interpreting Divisional Charts 0.00.00. ccccccscscssescecssstsssccsesesseecscsuenesessececacesesessasaceacsesnerssesseseereeseseeaes 150 


Maria: TAerapy as. scccccss0scs ticseseatecencenes anne Dustat ns besva dang cannes ivsabev exh pespnedtassit tad setanadocHieusteedectoutinen nies 400 


Predict Comprehensively through Divisional Charts 


Hindi Titles 


= 


SOI GOs Sal CON SO Bs AO 


— = 
= Ss 


122 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & urfaxfa st dew Wa 


..cominued from front inside cover 


See footnote at page 481 of June 1986 
issue of the Astrological Magazine which reads 
thus: 

1, Our team led by K.N. Rao consists of non- 
professional astrologers only. 
2. At page 482 under About the Paper 

“Tt will be seen that we are making a 
beginning with only an extended application 
of the double transit principle given by 
K.N. Rao in his series “Three Stages of 
Prediction” 

The team of seven I had chosen consisted 
of 

1. Lalita Gupta 

2. Kamla Sood 

3. Poornima Joshi (three women and four 
males) 

J.N. Sharma 
S.N. Kapoor 

R.K. Misra and 
M.N. Kedar 

The most substantial and hard work in 
producing it was done by M.N. Kedar. 

They have brought it out with some 
changes and some unconvincing additions ina 
book form, omitting my name [ will not 
grudge it. | wish them well but surely hope 
that they will produce some original research 
of their own. 

“It was later brought out in a book form 
without any mention about me and without 
any original contribution by any one of the 
participants. The tragedy of astrology in India 
has always been lack of research or as in this 
and many cases, plagiarising my researches or 
of my students whom I have been guiding.” 


ED GHB 


Dr. B.V. Raman in his sixty eight years of 
astrological career has not produced a single 
research. Such has been the dismal record of 
many other astrologers otherwise so well 
known. 

Yet, because timing marriage continues 
to baffle astrologers, and these days there are 
hundreds of instances of astrologers failing in 
this most traditional areas, it is necessary to do 
further work in this field. 

This monograph on Astrology and 
Timing of Marriage - (a Scientific Approach) 
by the juniormost students of research 
students of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan is 
most remarkable as the students were not 
confident in the beginning of completing it 
satisfactorily in time and getting it 
published. 

One can see the quality of the research 
and the zeal exhibited by the students in 
this book. I was confident that it could be 
done and here it is, a rare achievement 
indeed. I am full of praise for them. 

The scientific approach, the brilliance 
of replication, the high percentage of 
success in this research, surpassing every 
other research on this subject, shows what 
these students, with modem education, can 
achieve without cheating their clients with 
fraudulent yogas like Kaal Sarpa Yogas or 
through the fright of Saadhe Saati, 

A sacred science like jyotisha needs 
men with higher morality. That is sadly 
missing in the present scenario. 


K.N. Rao 


wwOcs 
wus 


Conclusions 


The study was conducted on 218 charts. In all the cases marriage 
had taken place and the date of marriage and other data has been 
given along with the result of applying the parameters on the 
charts. 


The results of the research have been tabulated for the parameters 
from P 1 to P 8 below,,Jt was noted that 


¢ 


Paramater 1 [| Connection of Vimshottari Mahadasha (MD), 
Antardasha (AD) lords with Lagna or 7H or Lagna Lord (LL) or 
7L of D1/D9 or planets associated with them] applied to all 
the cases (100%). [4 


Parameter 2 [Chara Antar Dasha making a connection with ° 
Darakarak (DK), Darakarak Navamsha (DKN), Dara Pada (DP), 
Up-Pada (UP) lagna or 7th lord of D1 or D9] applied to 210 
charts (96%). 


Parameter 3 [Transiting Jupiter's beiaaend on Vivah Saha] ° 
applied to 167 cases (77%). : 


Parameter 4 [The Saturn and Jupiter activating ae 7H, LL, 
7L) coplied to 186 cases (85%). 


Paramete TL and the 7L of native making a connection in 
transit] applied to 214 cases (98%). 


Parameter 6 [Jupiter activating natal Venus in male charts 
and natal Mars in female chart] applied in 149 charts (68%). 


ne 
Parameter 7 [Sun and/or most planets around Lagna or 7H] 
applied to 153 cases (70%). 


Parameter 8 [LL transiting in/near 7H or 7L transiting in/near 
Lagna] applied to 128 cases (59%) 


