ASTRO-COMMERCIAL GUIDE 


Anold book with low quality photos/ reformatted 


BY 


Horarathna Jothishasastrapravina 


PANDIT J. S. VENKATACHALA SASTRY 
MRAS., FF.B.A. 


Published By: 


THE ASTROLOGICAL RESEARO INSTITUTE 


“Sree Rajarajcswari 
No. 265, Middle School Road, Visveswarapuram 


BANGALORE-4 


CONTENTS 


CHATTER PAOE 
Introduction > . — .* Vil 
1. The Western System dealing with this Subject and 
the Stellar System oflndia .. cs He, ol 
2. Zodiacal Signs, Constellations or Stars, Planets 
and Vargas and their uses, etc. 7 a «A 
3. Zodiacal Signs dealing with Planets, Stocks and 
Sharcsand the Different Principal Commodities 
governed by them 7 r 24 
4. Results of Jupiter under Different Constella- 
tions .. ss Y = ... 30 
5. Results of Saturn under Different Constella- 
tions .. re 2 bg. Pa 
6. Results of the Week-days when Sun enters into 
the Signs of Zodiac .. — ~ 35 
7. Results of Planets in Different Signs of Zodiac ... 37 
8. Results of Combinations of Planets in one house 
(as famines, wars, good or bad times, etc.) ... 48 
9. Results of the Combination of Planets on the days 
of the month 8 r 23 — 52 
tO. Results of the Different Movements of the 
Planets, etc. ~ ~ — 59 
11. Results of the Circles of the Moon — — 62 


The Table of the Vargas .. ei ... 66 


I NTRODUCTION 


Knowledge is money. True. Knowledge is hard 
cash. 


The time has come to show that astrology is a 
science which not only predicts the events in a man’s 
life but also unfolds before our eyes the peculiar 
phenomena of the world. It is proper to mention 
that this awakening has come in us only after the West 
showed a keen interest in astrology after great study 
and varied experiences, especially of late though we, 
Indians, are taken to be originators of the science as 
also great students of it. There are several authors 
of books on modern astrology, both in India and 
abroad, but very few have written on Astro-Commerce 
or astrology as applicable to Trade and Commerce. 
The couple of books on Astro-Commerce found on 
some bookstands are neither authoritative nor based 
on experience or principles. There are some really 
good but rare books on the subject written during the 
age of Maharishis, who established astrology as a 
practical science, and it is well known that trade and 
commerce flourished in olden days. They have clearly 
shown to the world how, not only the fortunes and 
misfortunes of one’s own life, but also worldly events 
and the peculiar phenomena of the universe, can be 
predicted. 


The planetary influences on some aspects of the 
important elements are mentioned below: In water, 
the peculiar animals, gems and the tides of the seas 


Vill 


and oceans; on the earth, fires and floods, volcanic 
eruptions and earthquakes, rainfall and__hailstorms, 
births and deaths, epidemics and diseases, minerals 
(jewels, etc.) and water sources, peace and wars, 
famines and plentiful harvests, and natural changes of 
the usual phenomena; in the space surrounding us or in 
the atmosphere and the skies changes in the weather 
and climate, movements of comets and stars, winds, 
whirlwinds, cyclones, thunder, lightning, etc. 


The well-known Maharishis have given us_ the 
principles by the use of which we can unravel the 
mysteries of time, whether for good or bad. Generally 
all our ancient Indian astrologers have adopted the 
Nirayana or Stellar System only. This is not only 
simple but it is also more practical and scientific. 


I have given the guidance necessary to assist my 
readers in understanding and utilising the above 
mentioned Stellar System, its principles as applicable 
to practical life, thereby gaining knowledge to the reader 
in money transactions. 


Coming to the ideas expressed in the following pages, 
gists of the famous writings of Bhrugu, Parasara, 
Jaimini, Garga. Satyacharya, Badarayana and 
Manitha and the Mahabharata and other epics, etc., 
wherein are the toils of life-long work in the discovery 
of astrology, are employed. As these works are in 
Sanskrit, many interested in the subject not knowing 
the language will find this little booklet of great help 
to them. I feel that this is the first work of its type, 
giving facts and figures which will be able to guide 


IX 


businessmen as well as speculators or the bread-earners 
of a family in their practical life. 


It is important and useful to know beforehand 
whether the times lying ahead are opportune or not. 
as every one wishes and tries to live as happily as 
possible. To prepare ourselves to know this is a very 
good idea and attempt, but it requires the help of a 
guide which is wholly found in astrology. 


We wish to live as comfortably as possible under 
the circumstances in which we find ourselves. To 
live comfortably we arc required to have stocks of 
essential commodities, like food-stuffs. clothing, etc. 
It is important to know in advance when the prices of 
these commodities rise or fall, so that one may 
buy stocks when they are cheap and use them gradually, 
or sell the excess stock and profit thereby, or trade in 
the commodities and make a living therefrom. Today 
this has an important factor in our world and requires 
the greatest intelligence. Not only individuals with 
self-interest or individuals seeking publicity but even 
well organised governments are endeavouring to find 
out and master the art of buying and selling and making 
the best profit possible. As the essential commodities 
are the origin of the real state and go to determine it, 
wealth, business, exchange, coinage, governments, wars 
and in fact everything one can think of is based on 
these. 


Economists sum up the entire problem in three 
works: production, supply and demand: which 
can be grouped together under the word ‘statistics’. 


x 


Statistics have proved useless in wartime and have failed 
us in normal times also. Statistics are not 
correct,just as astrology is alleged not to be an accurate 
science, as they fail in getting the hidden stocks and 
give only probable figures varying often with climatic 
conditions. For climate and weather we have to defend 
on a sister science, meteorology. There will always be 
a varying demand of commodities by the human 
race, as the population varies. Here it may _ be 
mentioned that the census also cannot give correct 
statistics regarding the human race. We may 
therefore conclude that though the demand varies, 
supply adjusts itself to this, somehow, regulating the 
production. Thus production is the real and entire 
basis and the supply and demand are supplementary 
problems which can be solved by human beings. 
Production is not in the hands of statistics or its 
experts, or goverment, or human beings. Farmers 
may plough, use good manure and sow the best seeds 
in the best soil, but if the rains fail and the climate 
is unfavourable, a good harvest annot be expected. 
No department of any earthly government or any 
science except astrology can solve this problem. A 
good astrologer can really say whether a particular year 
is favourable or not to production, whether there 
will be rains and good crops or not. whether 
commodities will become cheap or show a nse in 
prices in a year, a month, a week or a day. This can be 
done only by applying the strict principles of the 
science of astrology. which depends upon the position 
of planets and stars and their influence on our earth. 


Xi 


After having solved the problem of production, 
we can consider the problem of demand. If it is a 
demand in normal times, a solution is easily found 
by knowing the production. For if the demand is 
less than the production, the prices of commodities, 
are bound to fall; if on the other hand demand exceeds 
production prices will evidently soar up. But to know 
when there will be a demand, for what commodity and 
for how long and the fluctuations in the demand, we 
must know the general conditions of the world, the 
political conditions, the war or peace conditions, eco- 
nomical and social circumstances, catastrophes and 
accidents and natural conditions of the present as well 
as the future, which is possible through astrology 
alone. 


Finally the third problem, supply, can be regarded 
as primarily one of the political conditions and the 
transport facilities and communications, etc. 


My little book will show you how to know in 
advance, when to stock and when to sell, when there 
will be good production, whether there will be good 
rains, a famine, an epidemic, a war, a_ revolution, 
anarchy—all of which affect production and demand. 


By a good study proper application and practice 
of business methods and dealing, one cannot only satisfy 
one’s own self but also guide others and earn money 
thereby. And a true knowledge of this Astro-Com- 
mercial science is hard cash. An astrologer like myself 
can honestly and in a straightforward manner publish 
something on that section of astrology which deals 


—— 


xii 


th business. This is better than life-reading or reading 
j horoscopes and réquires little or no capital at all. 
sere are people who look down upon the profession 
{ independent, noble one as that—of an astrologer. 
bedless to say that there arc, as also amongst astro- 
pers, many treacherous and wunworihy specimens 
hongst medical practitioners, lawyers, insurance agents, 
c. To approach the right person is one’s own choice. 
Strology is not a science which can be regarded as 
e’s. own property, like other sciences, or anybody 
m master and become proficient in. 


It is my humble object and aim that all readers 
; this book should learn something of practical astro- 
gy and thus know the truth of when to benefit one- 
If by laying in stocks at the proper time and utilising 
@ same if not doing business; when to stock and 
l and make better profits if a businessman;. and to 
ake money by advising others in business on buying 
id selling. 


T believe that if my readers study and practise 
y principles they will be preatly benefited. Wit¥, 
is hope, faith and prayer I end the introduction. 


The subject is dwelt with under twelve different 

ladings in detail, complete in themselves, i.e., contents: 

1. The Western System dealing. with this subject 
and the Stellar System of India. 


2. Zodiacal signs, constellations or stars, planets 
and Vargas and their uses, etc. 


10. 


11. 
12. 


Xill 


Zodiacal signs dealing with planets, stocks and 
shares and the different principal commodities 
govermed by them. 


Results of Jupiter under different constellations. 
Results of Saturn under different constellations. 


Results of the week-days when sun enters into 
the signs of the Zodiac. 


Results of planets in different signs of Zodiac. 


Results of combinations of planets in one 
house (as famines, wars, good or bad times, 
etc.). 


Results of the combination of planets on the 
days of the month. 


Results of the different movements of the 
planets, etc. 


Results of the circles of the Moon. 
The tables of the Vargas. 


By the mere study of this book and the correct 
applications of the principles laid down in the twelve 
chapters, anyone can master the subject and earn more 
money. Knowledge is money. 


CHAPTER I 


The Western System dealing with this Subject 
and the Stellar System of India 


All the Westem countries follow the Solar 
System of astrology and of the moving of the 
equinox. There exists a difference of nearly two 
constellations’ space between the Solar System and the 
Stellar or Fixed Star System. There are — several 
Western astrologers who write about the fixed stars 
and show their movements almost equal to the 
moving equinox. The difference of space between 
the fixed equinox and the moving one is exactly the 
mean obliquity of the Ecliptic. If this difference of 
space is added to the fixed equinox we get the moving 
equinox at the time, but if we deduct this from the 
moving equinox we gel the fixed equinox of our 
Nirayana or Stellar System. Many of our Indian 
students of astrology commit mistakes in taking different 
degrees., etc., and puzzle themselves very much, puzzling 
themselves further on finding out the correct position 
of planets and Lagna according to the Nirayana System. 
The clue as mentioned above solves the entire problem. 
You should bear in mind that if you subtract the mean 
obliquity of the Ecliptic of the required year from the 
required longitude of the Solar Planet (shown in Westem 
Ephemeris) and in Ascendent shown in the table of 
houses, calculated to the required latitude, you will get 
the Nirayana position of the planets required. When 
you want the Sayana or Solar position of planets 
according to the moving equinox, you must add the 


mean obliquity of the Ecliptic of the required year to 
the Nirayana longitude, planet and Ascendent (at the 
time of that latitude). 


But our Indian Ephemerids are written according 
to the Nirayana or Stellar System entailing no difficulty 
of the sort. Every Indian Ephemeris or Panchanga 
differs from one another, no two agree and there is 
still no standard Panchanga in India. Many correct 
their figures in the above mentioned way, but a lot 
of astrologers or students of astrology do not know 
the Stellar or Nirayana System or to convert it to the 
Solar System. 


There are some authors of big books and editors 
of magazines who boast that they have succeeded in 
finding the correct Ayanamsa, etc. They arc still 
ignorant of several facts as can be seen from Western 
books on the subject. If our so-called research students 
carry on the lines indicated above our purpose will be 
served and no research would be required. 


Though there are a good many observations and 
calculations in astrological books of the West, there 
are few giving the effects of the stars or planets on our 
earth. They do not give much importance to this 
at all. Even well-known astrologers like Sepherial, 
Robson and others, who have written some books 
on the fixed stars, show their poor knowledge of the 
subject, probably culled from Indian books’ or 
gathered from Indian students. They give importance 
to the planets and their different aspects, in a 
nutshell, the whole of the Westem theory’ of 
astrology ends there; whereas 


in the Stellar System we give more importance to the 
original great stars which govern and rule over the 
planets—the mediators between or bodies surrounding 
the earth and the stars. If the planets arc under the 
influence of a bright star, the influence, whether good 
or evil, of that planet will have a different effect on 
the earth; similarly the influence of a weak star on a 
strong planet will be different. This gives results con- 
trary to those of astrologers of the West. Thus the 
Stellar or Nirayana System is more advanced, forward, 
scientific, direct, exact and superior to the Solar System. 
It requires a good study only. To become well acquaint- 
ed with the point under discussion in this book and 
also astrology in its other aspects, one must know to 
make the astrological chart (Lagna) or Ascendent mark- 
ing therein the position of the stars at the required time. 


It is not the purpose of this book to give hints on 
making horoscopes. This can be learnt from any 
elementary primer on astrology, obtainable in most 
book-stalls. The positions of planets under different 
stars, in different houses, must be well known. 
These can be obtained from any Indian Ephemeris 
or Panchanga, which give the position of each planet 
under each star and its change in position on any day 
of the year. This knowledge is sufficient as well as 
essential to our work. But to guide my readers who 
cannot refer to the Ephemeris in Indian languages, and 
those who may not otherwise be able to do so, 1 shall 
give further details of stars, planets, signs, etc., in the 
next chapter. 


CHAPTER II 


(The Stellar System) 


Zodiacal Signs. Constellations or Stars, Planets 
and Vargas and Their Uses. etc. 


There are some twenty-seven fixed stars or con- 
stellations also known as the fixed space of the Zodiac. 
The Zodiac is nothing but the space in the heavens 
surrounding us where the planets move under the 
influence of the stars. The Zodiac is divided into 
twelve houses, each denoted by a different symbol. 
The space that is covered by each star or constellation 
is 13 1/3 and by each house. 30 degrees (written 30° 
for short)—each degree subdivided into 60 minutes and 
each minute into 60 seconds—of the Zodiac, completing 
360° or a circle or all the twenty-seven stars. They 
arc as follows: 


Signs Degrees Stars Nature 
Mesha 0° to 13° 20' As wini Kethu 
13° to 26° 40' Bharani Venus 
26° 40' Krittika Sun 
Vrishabha to 10° %y) 
10° to 23° 20' Rohini Moon 
23° 20' Mrigasira. Mars. 
to 6© 40' Mrigasira Mars 
Miihuno 6° 40' to 20* Aridra Rahu 


20° 


Kataka 


Simba 


Tula 


Vrischika 


Dhanus 


Kumbha 


Mecna 


oe 


lo oY 
3° 20’ to 16° 40° 
16° 40° to 30° 
to 13° 20° 
13° 20° to 26° 40" 
26° 40° 
to 10° 
10° to 23° 20’ 
23° 20’ 
to 6° 40° 
6° 40" to 20° 
20° 
0° to 3° 20° 
3* 20’ to 16° 40° 
16° 40° to 30° 
0? ta 43° 20° 
13° 20° to 26° 40° 
36° 49’ 
eo to1% 
10° ta 23° 20’ 
33°20" 
Oo to 6°40 
6° 40’ to 20° 
20° 
oe to PY 
¥ AY to 16°40’ 
16° 40" to 30° 


Punzrvasa 
Pushya 
Askesha 
Makha 
Pubba 


Utara 
Hasta 


Chitta 
Swathi 


Visakha 
Aouradha 
Jyeshia 
Moola 


Jupiter 
Saturn 
Mercuty 
Kethu 
Venus 


Rabu 


Jupiter 
Satum 


Mercury 
Kethu 


Purvashadha Venus 


Uttarashadha Sun 


Sravana 


Dhanishta 


Moon 


Mars 


Satabhisha Rahu 


Purvabhadra Jupiter 
Uttarabhadra Satur 


Revathi 


Mercury 


6 


There are seven planets which rule the seven days 
of the week. They are the Sun, the Moon, Mars, 
Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Satum (with its Moon's 
nodes—Rahu and Kethu or the Dragon's head and 


tail respectively). 
The names of the 12 signs or Rasis of Stellar 


System are as follows: 


Sanskrit English 
Mesha Aries 
Vrishabha Taurus 
Mithuna Gemini 
Kataka Cancer 
Sim ha Leo 
Kanya Virgo 
Tula Libra 
Vrischika Scoprio 
Dhanus Sagittarius 
Makara Capricom 
Meena Pisces 


Each of these months start when Stellar Sun enters 
the first degree of each sign of any year: he enters 
generally every year between the second week of 
March or April. 

In all, these nine planets rule the twelve houses. 


Their Sanskrit translations read: Surya. Chandra, 
Mangala, Budha, Guru, Sukra, Sani. Rahu and Kethu, 


7 
The Sun rules (house of) Simha (Leo) 


The Moon rules Karkataka (Cancer) 
Mars rules Mcsha (Aries) 
Vrischika (Scorpio) 
Mercury rules Mitbuna (Gemini) 
Kanya (Virgo) 
Jupiter rules Dhanus (Sagittarius) 
Meena (Pisces) 
Venus rules Tula (Libra) 
Vrishabha (Taurus) 
Saturn rules Makara (Capricorn) 
Kumbha (Aquarius) 


Rahu and Kcethu have strictly speaking no houses 
to rule, being shady planets only. Rahu acts as Saturn 
and Kethu as Mars. 


Planets, regarded as beneficial or good, are Jupiter, 
Venus, the Moon and Mercury (only when combined 
with good planets). 


Planets, regarded as unlucky, evil or bad, are Mars, 
Saturn, the Sun and Mercury (when mixed with 
bad planets), Rahu and Kethu. 


When a planet is in a particular constellation or 
star (nakshatra) it will adopt the nature of that con- 
stellation rather than its own, whether good or evil. 
This should be bome in mind whilst assessing the 
effects of that planet, especially important in the 
Stellar System. For example, Satur is an evil planet. 
Suppose he is in Mrigasira. Our above table shows 


84 


yature of Mrigasira is like that of Mars—very fiery 
and cruel, Saturn himself is bad, giving the worst 
bossible result, If Mars -himself is there, he will 
pecome yery powerful and fierce. If a planet is in 
A constellation of a friendly nature, ‘i¢., of its own type. 
its value or effect is enhanced. When the planets 
are in their brightest positions or exalted house positions® 
they have a greater value; and when they are in a 
house of a different or opposed naturc, or-in an-un« 
Friendly constellation or house (Neecha), or in combi- 
nation with cruel planets, ete., their value is less, The 
ancient: scholars have fixed the value. of every: planet 
with respect: to six different aspécts or “Vargas” called 
ishadvargas’ and ‘Balas’. They arc: I. The Balas: 
(1) Sthana: whether they are in their own house, 
unfriendly house or, friend's house; (2) Aspects:—in 
the neighbourhood of good or bad planets: (3) whether 
they are in exalted house or falling house’ (ucha or 
neecha); (4) whether they themselves are rising 
‘or declining; (5) whether they are in the carly part 
of the sign, middle or end; (6) whether they are 
affected or influenced ‘or in ‘combination with good 
or bad plancts. II, The Shadvargas: An important 
‘table of Shadvargas is: given atthe end of this book 
in seven columns. The first column shows the longi- 
tude of the planet of tbe. house mentioned above. The 
lother columns give the exact Hora, Drakkana,. Sapta- 
mamsa, Navanianisa, Dwadasamsa and Trimsamsa 
hespectively. 

» Tf a planct be in his own or his friend’s Vargas 
‘or a beneficial planet’s Vargas, it will “givé very good 


9 


results; evil results if in an enemy’s Vargas. Thus, 

if Saturn is in 27°40' of Kumbha, he is (a) in his own 
house. (6) Chandra Hora, (c) Tula Drakkana, (d) Simha 
Saptamamsa, (c) Tula Navamamsa, (/) Makara Dwa- 
dasama, (g) Sukra Trimsamsa as per our table (page 87, 
item 327). Here (1) Lagna’s lord is Sani (Saturn), 

(2) Drakkana is an exalted house to Sani, (3) Navamamsa 
is also an exalted house for Sani (Saturn), (4) Dwa- 
dasamsa is in its own house, (5) Trimsamsa’s lord is 
Venus who is a friend; so there are five good Vargas. 
The other two Vargas, Hora, whose lord is the Moon 
and Saptamamsa, whose lord is the Sun, are not friendly. 
So of the seven Vargas including Lagna, we have five 
good Vargas. Therefore the value of Saturn is very 
good in this position. The prices of commodities, 
stocks or shares he may represent, must rise. If on 
the other hand he is Neecha or in Neecha house in 
Vargas his value will go down—bringing down the 
prices of the commodities he represents. The same 
results are applicable to countries or individuals. 


This is the best use of these tables, by a glance at 
which one can find out the strength of any planet easily. 


These are the important principles which one 
should know to be able to judge the value and the 
strength or energy of a planet before arriving at the 
results, etc. 


Food-stuff is the most important necessity for a 
living being like air and water, much more so, to a 
human being. The production of food-stuff depends 


10 


upon the soil, seed, rainfall and fertilisers, etc. One 
can have good seeds, can select the best soil and 
good fertilisers, etc., but not rainfall. Scientists are 
producing fertilisers, walk in the space, select best 
soil for particular commodity, etc. They even say 
they can produce rain, but it may be at a very high 
cost, which is still in experimental stage only, as they 
arc predicting the weather and rainfall at such a high 
cost with all their most modern equipments. Their 
predictions arc only for a day or two in advance which, 
sometimes, fail terribly. Though astrologers of ancient 
school have no modem equipment to observe the stars 
and planets, and measure the currents of the sea. wind, 
light, etc., they depend on the naked observation of 
the stars and planets and their method of calculation and 
prediction of the rainfall, etc., was so correct—one year 
in advance, without any cost. We see how. that though the 
sea is close to the town or city, there is no drinking water 
and water for cultivation, etc. Recently some Scientist 
told that he could convert sea-water into drinking 
water, may be at a high cost which a common man 
cannot bear. It is natural for all to depend on natural 
rainfall only. It is only the science of astrology which 
gives the real clue of knowing or predicting the rain- 
fall as said above. I venture to give the simple methods 
of predicting the rainfall depending upon the principles 
taught by old Masters of this Science by knowledge of 
w hich and correct application of which one can predict 
the rainfall in advance than the modem scientists. 
The harvest of the coming year depends upon this 
rainfall. Hence I explain this first-rainfall clues: 


ll 


Rainfall 


A commoner feels surprised when it rains suddenly 
at a seaport town on a day, which may be out of rainy 
season, but an Astrological Scientist will not do so, 
because he knows rain will not fall unless some wind 
blows from a particular direction under a_ particular 
combination of planets. He knows very well unless 
the Moon is situated in the sign of Makara (Capricom) 
and is situated either in the Sth or 9th house from 
Satum and when wind blows the rain will fall. 


To predict events such as climate or particularly 
rainfall, war, etc., our ancestors were observing the 
conditions of the sky, the directions from where the wind 
blows at the lime, the situation of planets, their com- 
binations in different signs and the particular stars, 
the oceans and the planet earth and particularly they 
used to observe the conditions, colours of Sun and 
Moon, and stars of which any little variations they 
use to differ in their effects, etc., of which we have ex- 
plained in this chapter at first. They have also added 
the 28th star called “Abhijit” in their Record, which 
falls between “Uttarashadha” and “Sravana" of Makara 
Rasi. It is supposed to be a very fortunate one from 
every angle of astrology whether for birth or for Muhurta, 
etc. These twenty-eight stars are classified under seven 
different Nadis (or pulses) of the space according to 
their nature indicated by the planets similar to the said 
Nadis. To simplify the calculations we give below 
the stars under particular Nadis with the nature of 


the similar planet with it. The effects of these 
are exlained in these pages: 
I. (d) Krittika, (2) Visakha, (3) Anuradha, 
(4) Dhanishta arc of Athivayu Nadi— 
ie, GREAT Windy of Saturn Group. 
This is also called CHANDA Vayu. 

II. () Rohini, (2) Swathi. (3) Jyeshta, (4) Aswini 
are of Windy (Vayu) Nadi of Sun 
Group. 

II. (1) Mrigasira, (2) Chitta, (3) Moola, 
(4) Revathi are of Mars (Nature) or 
Group of DAHANA Nadi, i.e.. Fiery. 

IV. (1) Aridra, (2) Hastha, (3) Purvashadha 
(4) Uttarashadha arc of Jupiter's Group 
and is Sowmya Nadi, ie.. Polite or 
Calmness. 

V. (J) Pushya, (2) Pubba, (3) Abhijit, (4) Sata- 
bhisha are of Mercury's Group and 
of Mepha Nadi, i.e.. Cloudy. 

VI. (1) Aslesha, (2) Makha. (3) Sravana, (4) Dha- 
nishta are of Moon’s Group and of 
Amrutha Nadi ie. Ambrosia or 
Nectar. 


The names of the Nadis themselves are self-expla- 
atory as Chanda Nadi—Great Windy of the Nature 
of Saturn. Jala Nadi—Water-like Venus’ which 
means : gives water or rain.* 


¢ Amrutha Nadi like Moon which indicates very good rain, 
vahana Nadi or Fire ruled by Mars which gives Heat or Fire, etc. 


13 


These above should be well understood and applied 
properly as explained (in the following pages—later) 
before predicting the results. 


There will be rainfall if the Moon is situated in 
the house of Makara (Capricom) or in the 9th or Sth 
house from Saturn; this may be observed very clearly 
all on a sudden in a seaport town but if the combina- 
tion takes place in a rainy season it is sure it rains any- 
where, whether seaport town or otherwise with thunder 
and storm. 


If the Moon is strong in the 7th house from Venus 
which is a watery sign aspected by Jupiter, the auspi- 
cious planet, it sinks the earth by rain-water. 


Without Mars in the middle if only Mercury 
and Venus are in one house, 7.e., without the conjunc- 
tion of even Sun, then there will be heavy rain. 


If the Sun is moving in front of Mars, there will 
be heavy rain, but if Mars is in the front of the Sun. he 
will not give way for such rains. 


If the Moon is strong in a cordial house or in a 
watery house, it rains a lot. 


If the Sun moves to another house in the evening, 
it creates such clouds which rains and keeps people happy. 


In the rainy season if the Moon is in watery sign 
and at the same time if Mars also is entering the other 
sign, there will be heavy rain. 


When Jupiter and Mercury are in transition while 
saturn or Venus are in (any one or both) 13° from 
or away from Sun the clouds will pour rain abundantly. 


If there is eastern wind blowing on the evening of 
the full Moon day of the month of Ashadha, it keeps 
happy the Food Ministers by pouring good rains. 


if in the evening the wind from the north-east 
blows, hot waves will flow on the face of the earth. 


If the wind blows from the sky towards the south 
in the evening, there will be very little drizzling or 
fear on earth. 


If at the evening the wind blows from the south- 
western side, there will be dry cloud without water 
and there will be fear like a crying face. 


If at the evening there is a western side wind blow- 
ing, the rulers of the country will lose their 
strength of power. 


If in the evening the wind blows from the north- 
western side all the trees and plants and crops will 
grow well with clean and clear earth. 


If on the Full Moon day of the month of Ashadha 
when the clear Sun in the evening can be seen and 
northern winds blow, there will be good rain. 


When the Sun is setting if the wind blows from the 
north-easternside there will be happiness with rains 
>by which the new crops, plants, trees and cows, 
etc., will feel happy too. 


15 


If the male and female stars come in contact, there 
will be rain on earth. If only female and neutral stars 
join, there will be only clouds. 


If Mars joins Sun in any house or be alone in 
Simha, even the clouds will vanish. 


If on the 8th, 13th or the New Moon day of the 
dark half of the month Venus either raises or sets, 
there will be heavy rain on earth, according to the order 
of the Lord of Heaven. 


If Jupiter and Mercury join, there will be rain but 
if Mars or Sun joins them, there will be no rain at all. 


If one observes the colour of gold at the sunrise 
or his rays are of red colour like coral, it will rain 
very soon on earth. 


The day when all the ten directions are clear and 
the water loses its natural taste and tastes salty and 
the sky looks whitish there will be rain of pure water. 


One should know that the rain starts immediately 
when one observes (on a rainy season day) the Sun’s 
rays are like silver rays, and when fishes play in water 
ponds and when frogs shout, etc. 


When cats rub their nails on the earth and children 
are building bridges on the roads, when iron rusts and 
smells and mountains turn whitish and caves are covered 
with smoke-like substance, these are indications of rain. 


If the Moon is surrounded by a circle on a week- 
day of beneficial planets, then it will rain. 


If ants are going in groups even without water 
tanks and serpents reaching the top of trees and if the 


serpents are enjoying in the daytime, these indicate 
rainfall. 


If the Moon circle has got the colour of the eye 
of a dove or a parrot or of honey and if the wind blows 
in the day from north east or east, it will rain very soon. 


In the rainy season when the birds arc rolling in 
dust, certain kinds of birds sing on earth and some in 


sky. and the buds will face the sky before they flower, 
it shows abundant rainfall. 


When the sky looks dark like the colour of bird’s 
wing at the time of sunrise, or sunset and birds are 
creating noise, these indicate heavy rain. 


At the time of sunrise or sunset if Sun is encircled 
and rainbow like another Sun there will be heavy rain. 


If the Sun sets with innumerable rays within the 
earth will be covered with water by rainfall. 


When there is the conjunction or meeting of 
Jupiter and Mercury, Venus and Jupiter or Venus and 
Mercury there will be rain; but when Mars and Saturn 
join or meet there will be fire and not rain. 


If the planets are in front of the Sun in an order, 
there will be heavy rain on earth. 


If the Sun shines like pearl in the first part of the 
year from Makara month (ic., Pushya) and Moon 
shines like silver in the second part of the year (from 


Kataka month—i.e from Sravana), the crops will grow 
well. 


17 


If the Sun has silver light, he will destroy the wicked 
cooling light will bring rain and fire-like heat. If red 
light, there will be fear of weapons. 


At the time of sunrise if the Sun looks like the 


colour of a lotus with gold hue, the people will be happy 
and will have pure dear water. 


If the Sun shines like a blue diamond at the time 
of sunrise, the earth will suffer without rain and people 
will suffer with great diseases with sorrow in all direc- 
tions and be scattered. 


If the Sun looks like grey or yellowish colour, it 
creates serpents, thieves and tigers, etc. If he is like 
coral, there will be dirty water through rain. If he is 


of blood colour, it creates blood channel by the water 
and killing. 


If the Sun is of smoky or peculiar colour, destroys 
the water as well as the power of the kings or governments. 
If he is like the lily, destroys the Ministers and priests and if 


he is like Champaka flower, destroys the princes and their 
children. 


If the Sun’s circle looks like two, three or eight 
surfaces or a line in Sun, the king will die. 


If the Sun shines like the blood of a mongoose 


at the time of sunrise, there will be war between the 
Kings or Nations. 


If the Sun shines like a bronze cup and like Moon 
and without rays, there will be great fear. 


18 


If at the time of sunrise the Sun shines like the eyes 
of a peacock, the earth will be decorated with moun- 
tains and hills. 


If a dine is observed in the Sun’s disc like a new 
cloud, fear and death by bad luck may be noted. 


When at the time of sunset if he looks broken 
or irregular, white in colour, first the country will be 
ruined then the king will be ruined. 


If the Moon shines clear, clean, white like a lily 
or milk on the Full Moon day, it will be auspicious. 


If the Moon does not shine well or looks condemned 
or with indifferent colours on a Full Moon day. it brings 
destruction of the entire world. 


If the Moon rises with the colour of a red lotus 
and with a light of a fire and without flaw, there will 
be terrible fear. 


If the Moon shines like pearl, shell or curd-like 
colour in the evening it does good. If she shines like 
the colour of gold or of Champak flower, it gives 
financial assistance to the people. If she is red like 
Manjistha, she gives good health, strength and rain, 
but if she shines like ash, fire, copper or blood colour, 
she blesses fear. 


If the Moon shines with black light (dim or dull 
light), it threatens the palace or king’s residence with 
fire and death of people. 


If the colour is blue, it destroys the cattle and it 
does not rain. 


If the Moon shines like the colour of the parrot’s 
wings (i\e., greenish), the whole crops on earth will 


perish. If she is yellow the elephants will perish and 
if it is black the agriculturist will perish. 


If the Moon is of red colour, the rulers will perish 
soon through the weapons; if she is of smoky colour, 


there will be great fear, there will be epidemic and no 
good at all. 


If a circle is observed (like the Moon) either in the 
left or in the right side of the Moon, there will be heavy 
rain on three nights and there will be fear after 15 days. 


If on the 1st day of the bright half of the month, 
the Moon rises covered with the clouds, there will be 
fear and there will be a great war but if this happens 
to be the rainy season such things will not take place. 


If the two ends of the Moon (as we call ihe horns 
of the Moon) are well developed and equal and looks 


pretty on the second day of the bright half of ihe Moon, 
she promises safety. 


If the southern side of the Moon’s horn is short 
and the northern is longer than the other, there will 
be good health and plenty and if it is reverse, i>., southern 
side hom longer than the northern side there will 
be death amongst people, failure of rains and war 
amongst kings and through the wicked. 


When the Moon rises with reddish colour like 
blood, fire or fox blood or red lotus and shines, being 
in the sign of Sagittarius or Dhanus. the kings will have 


to fight with valiant people, suffer from mental torture 
and the cattle will be destroyed. 


If both the homs of the Moon arc upside down. 1>., 
(looking downwards instead of upwards) by bad luck 
and when there are sun’s rays also, the people become 
humble without life and there will be worry and 


chaos on all sides. 


If the horns of the Moon are separated which can 
be observed as south and north horns on the Ist day 
itself of the bright half of the Moon, there will be 
failure of rains, and people will suffer from fever, 
cold, cough, etc., on earth and there will be fear and 
threat of wars. 


If, by chance, it is observed as two Moons in the 
sky, it does good to Brahmins, or the intelligent class of 
beings; if as three Moons, it indicates destruction. 


There are auspicious planets as well as malefic 
planets; if both of them are in a Nadi like Chanda, it gives 
great wind or gives wind which may not be so great. 


The Agni Nadi, 7.e., fire indicating nature Nadi 
makes the whole earth hot. Even the planets which 
represent the Nadis will give the results according 
to their names which are self-explanatory. 


Those planets which are situated in Sowmya (calm) 
Nadi are neutral or of middle nature. But those planets 
which are in water or Jala Nadi bring rains, particularly 
if the Moon is in Jala Nadi. 


Mars, if he is in his own Nadi, gives his own results 
and in other Nadis according to their nature. 

Moon in whichever Nadis he is in, even if they are 
not friends, it rains on that day. 


If several planets are in one constellation or Nakshatra and 
if Moon joins them, it rains on that day heavily. 


If such Moon is disturbed by the mixture of pla- 
nets such as malefics and benefics there will be less 
rain but covered with darkness . 

If the male planets arc disturbed between themselves, 
there will be only winds, but if it is between male and 
female ones, it rains and if it is between neutrals, that 
will prove to be a bad day. 

If the Moon is in Amruta Nadi and if all other 
planets are also situated in the same direction, then 
the whole earth will be covered with water in a second. 


With such a Moon if there arc three planets for three 
days, four planets for four days, and five planets for 
five days, it will rain continuously. 

In the same way if the Moon is in Jala Nadi with 
three planets for half a day, four planets for one day, 
five planets for five days (or three days) it rains. 


If all the planets are situated with the Moon in 
Amruta Nadi for eighteen days and in Jala Nadi if all the 
planets with Moon twelve days (or six days) it rains. 


If the planets arc in Sowmya Nadi it rains for 
three days. If the malefic planets are behind and 
benefics arc in front, there will be no rain. 


22 


If the Moon and Mars join Jupiter in one Nadi, 
there will be heavy rain all over the earth. 

If Jupiter, Mercury, Venus are in one and the 
same house, or Rasi and if Moon also joins them, there 
will be good rains. 

It has been observed that the rainy season starts 
generally from the day the Sun starts or enters the 
star Aridra and continues till the Sun travels eleventh 
star from there every year. 

If the wind blows from the eastern side on the 
5th day of the bright half of the Lunar month of Chaitra, 
the prices of grains (food) will go up three times. 

If the wind blows from the southern side and the 
cloud moves to the eastern side on the 4th day of the 
bright half of the month of Chaitra, it rains daily in the 
month of Aswayuja. 

In the same way if the southern wind blows on 
the 5th day of the bright half of the month of Jyeshta, 
the prices of oils will be doubled. 

If on the 5th day of the bnght half of the month 
of Ashadha the wind blows from the western side, the 
prices of food grains will go up to four times. 

If the wind blows from the southern side or from 
western side on the 5th day of the bright half of the 
month of Sravana. there will be mental worry and famine 
on a large scale. 

If it docs not rain on the 2nd day of the bright 
half of the month of Ashadha, there will be rain in 
the month of Sravana. 


23 


If the astern wind blows and the clouds are very 
much more on the third day of the bright half of the 
month of Ashadha, there will be rain in the month of 
Bhadrapada. 


If the northern wind blows on the 5th day of the 
bright half of the month of Ashadha, there will be heavy 
rain in the month of Karthika and the crops will be 
filled on earth. 


If it rains from the 2nd day to the 5th day of the 
bright half of the month of Ashadha, there will be 
famine and suffering due to over-rains. 


If on two days of the month of Ashadha the wind 
blows from the south as well as from the west, people 
will suffer as the crops fail. 


If the northern wind blows on the Sth day of the 
month and the eastern wind blows on the 3rd day of 
the month, all grains will grow; it rains well and the 
rivers will be filled with full water. 


When the Sun is in Capricorn or Makara there 
will be fog every day; if he is in Kumbha lot of wind 
blows, clouds form when he is in Meena, when in Mesha 
he gets heated, but when he is in Vrishabha he gets very 
much heated, even before he enters Kanya it rains. 


CHAPTER III 


Zodiacal Signs, dealing with Planets, Stocks and 
Shares and the Different Principal Commodities 
governed by them 


The chief commodities represented by the different 
planets are mentioned below. 


There is a lot of difference of opinion about this 
amongst Western astrologers. According to them the 
Sun represents gold, the Moon—silver, vegetables. 
Mars—minerals, iron and steel, Venus—copper, wheat, 
Jupiter—tin, rice. Mercury—cotton, quicksilver, pulses, 
Saturn—brass, lead, etc. Indian astrologers classify as 


under: 

The Sun.—Wheat, oils, jute, copper, chillies, wool, 
etc. 

The Moon.—Rice, articles connected with water 
like ships, submarines, etc. 

Mars. —Arms and ammunition, pulses, gold, mining, 
the earth, etc. 

Mercury.—Brass, quicksilver, cotton, greengram, 


books, newspapers, communications and __ transport 
(railways, post and telegraphic branches included), 


etc. 


Jupiter —Banks (treasuries, money, finance and 
wealth), power, position silver, government (ruling 


power, etc.), gram, etc. 


Venus.—Scents, clothing, luxury articles, beauty, 
the tine arts, architecture, fruits, photography, cinema 


(goods, etc.), mills, pulses, etc. 
Saturn.—Iron, steel, black articles (castor seeds, 
etc.), coal, oil-seeds, aeroplanes, textile industry, factories, 


etc. 
Rahu.—Gram, tin, accidents, etc. 


Kethu.—Lead, salt, jaggery, etc. 


Table showing the ruling signs of planets ana 
commodities they represent 


Wesha.—Woollen goods, wheat, gold, dhall, chillies 
and grains red in colour. 


Vrishabha.—White clothing, quadrupeds (cows, 


buffaloes, etc.). 

Mithuna.—Cotton, books, transport systems (rail- 
ways, etc.), communications (post, etc.), quicksilver 
(mercury), gram, etc. 

Karkataka.—M\ articles found or grown under 
water, or in the soil, fruits, etc. (pearls included in 
Ist group). 

Simha.—Jute, salt, sugar, jaggery, pepper, govern- 


ment, etc. 
Konya.—Green gram, nuts, tamarind, women, etc. 
Tula.—Ivory and gems. 
Vrischika.—Iron, w’ar material, tobacco, superior 
sugar, better quality woollen articles. 


Dhanus.—Banks, money, salt, horses, 
coloured cloth, weapons, wood. 


Makara.—Skins and hides, iron, metals. 
Kumbha.—Earthenware (Ch ina wa re). 


Meena..—Gems, fish, etc- 


The Western Nations have written a lot on astrology, 
but this hardly proves useful in gauging the rise and 
fall in prices of commodities, stocks or shares. I 
would like to say here that in order to predict accurately 
the fluctuation in the values of stocks, shares, etc., you 
must be able to make the horoscope of the company 
[whose shares, etc., you hold) as on the day the com- 
pany was started or incorporated. This must be taken 
as the man’s horoscope and you must proceed to find 
out the 'Vargas’ and conclude as to the time of the 
rise and the Fall of prices. For ordinary purposes take 
the Moon’s position or the Rasi position and find out 
the present position of the planets, giving the results 
according to the transits or Gochara Phala; this will 
be fairly accurate and serves our purpose. For serious 
and lasting predictions, you must find out the ‘bala’ 
or strength of the planet which rules over the 
com-modity or share, etc., in which you arc dealing. 
This will be more accurate. 


If Sani or Saturn is in Ist, 2nd or 8th or 12th houses, 
the commodity or share of that company is sure to 
go down in value (in Sadesathi, etc., as laid down in 
Gochara Phala). 


In order to help those who do not know the Gochara 
System of predicting, I am making a mention of the 
following details. Take the house of the Sun or of 
the Moon (whichever may be more powerful by being 
in an exalted house or own house or in good Vargas 
as detailed above) in the case of a stock or a scrip of 
a commodity. Take that sign of the Zodiac under 
which it is mentioned above, regarding this as in the 
first house and counting from there onwards the other 
houses, the houses arc taken in the order: Mesha (1), 
Vrishabha (2), Mithuna (3), Kataka (4), Simha (5), 
Kanya (6), Tula (7), Vrischika (8), Dhanus (9), Makara 
(10), Kumbha (11), and Meena (12). 


These houses are written graphically as under: 


Meena (12) Mesha (1) Vrishabha (2) Mithuna (3) 

Kumbha (IT) Kataka (4) 
Rasi Chart 

Makara (10) Simha (5) 

Dhanus (9) Vrischika (8) Tula (7) Kanya (6) 


A chart of Lagna, Drekkana, Saptamamsa, 
Navamamsa, Dwadasamsa, etc., can also be made as 
above, giving a handy chart for reference. 


If the Sun, a weak Moon, Mars, Saturn, Rahu. 
or Kethu are in Ist, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th or 9th houses, 
the prices of shares and commodities (for which chart 
is drawn) decline; if on the other hand they are in 


28 


the 3rd, 6th, 10th or 11th houses, the rise in prices is 
indicated. 


If Venus is in the 6th or 7th house, the prices go 
up, but if in the other houses the prices go down. 


If Mercury is in 2nd, 5th, 8th, 10th or 11th houses, 


prices go down; if in any of the others prices tend to 
rise. 


If Jupiter is in 2nd 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th or 11th 
houses the prices (of the particular commodity) go down, 
whilst if in other houses, the prices go up. 


You will now have to consider the points of the 
following chapters and use them to aid you in a better 
understanding of astro-commerce. 


We would like to give the Rasis of several important 


estocks and shares dealt in Bombay market in assisting 
*our readers: 


Reserve Bank of India .. Tula Rasi 
Tata Power .. Mithuna 
Tata Ordinary .. Meena 
Tata Hydro .. Dhanus 
Century Mills .. Kataka 
Indore Malwa .. Dhanus 
Balapur Sugar Company .. Vrischika 
Scindhia Steam .. Makara 
Colaba Mills and Land .. Mcsha 
Phonix Mills .. Tula 
Swan Mills .. Meena 
Finlay .. Mithuna 
Swadeshi .. Kumbha 


B. B. Petrol .. Kataka 


Tata Company Shares (1) Power is of Mithuna 
where Saturn has entered now. (2) Ordinary is of 
Meena Rasi, so Satur is on the mid-heaven in 4th 
house and (3) Tata Hydro Dhanus, Saturn is in opposi- 
tion, so there is danger or the prices will go down between 
October end 1943 and April considerably due to poli- 
tical condition, etc. The same results may be noted 
to the other shares of the same rasis. (This book was 
written first in 1942-43 hence these selections of the 
scrips were taken as examples thus). 


I prefer Colaba shares as Saturn is in the 3rd house 
and Jupiter is in the 5th which shows a better result. 
Though B.B. Petrol and Century have got Sadesathi lately 
as Jupiter is in the 2nd house these shares may rise 
temporarily. I prefer Century for some time than of 


B. B. Petrol. This is how one should come to some 
decision. 


CHAPTER IV 


Results of Jupiter under Different Constellalions 


This chapter gives you the consequences of the 
planet Jupiter being in the different constellations. 


Jupiter in Bharani and Krittika—An_ indication 
of normal good rain and good crops. 


Jupiter in Sfrigasira and Aridra—There will be 
happiness for everybody everywhere. There will be 
a scarcity of rain, causing famine when Jupiter is in 
Punarvasu, Pushya and Aslcsha. 


There will be good rains, healthy and cheap living, 
happiness when Jupiter is in Makha and Purvaphalguni. 


Jupiter in Utttara. Hasta is a sign of cheap living, 
good rains, etc. 


Jupiter in China and Swathi indicates coming 
good rains and good crops. 


Jupiter in Visakha and Anuradha makes sure the 
usual or normal rainfall and crops. 


Jupi er in Jyeshta and Moola forebodes a continuous 
rainfall for two months; but if the Sun lies in Kanya, 
there will be no rainfall at all. 


Jupiter in Purvashadha and Uttarashadha is a 
sure sign of normal good rains for three months and 
no rain only for one month. Jupiter in Sravana, 
Dhanishta and Satatara makes articles cheap, and thus 


the people will be healthy and happy throughout the 
world. Jupiter in Purvabhadra and Uttarabhadra gives 
rise to a great famine caused by failure of rains, etc. 


Jupiter in Revathi indicates good crops, cheap 
and healthy living throughout the world. 


CHAPTER V 


Results of Saturn under Different Constellations 


If Saturn is in Aswini, commodities like sesame, 
oils, brass, etc., show a rise of prices for one month, 
but then come down. 

If Saturn is in Bharani, there will be civil wars or 
riots between brother communities of eastern countries 
causing grave anxiety to the ruler or forces in power. 


When Saturn is in Krittika, the prices of metals, 
such as gold and silver, will go up and one can get a 
fourfold profit from wood or fire-wood; trade in food- 
stuff (com, etc.), will be mild. 


There will be general happiness throughout the 
world when Mars is with Saturn in Aswini, Bharani 
and Krittika. 


The prices of cloth of all varieties will soar high 
and there will be deaths amongst elephants when Saturn 
is in Rohini or Mrigasira. 


It is advisable to collect or stock all sorts of food 
grains when Saturn is in Aridra, as one can make twice 
the profit in 2 to 3 months due to rise in prices. 


When the Sun and Mars both join Satur in Andra, 
prices of all commodities go up in that month, falling 
down in the next month. 


When Saturn is in Punarvasu or in Pushya, there 
will be a mixed feeling of happiness and sorrow, pros- 
perity and famine, damage to crops, etc. 


When Saturn enters in Aslesha, there will be no 


rain and prices of war weapons, etc., like swords, 
arrows will go up. 


Saturn in Makha indicates a general fear on people 
in most parts of the earth and one can earn good profit 
by dealing in horses and elephants. 


If planets like the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury 
and Jupiter join Saturn in Makha, the prices of all 


types of food grains will positively go up, without the 
shadow of a doubt. 


If Satur enters into Phalguni, the intelligentsia 
(Brahmins, Ministers, etc.) will become burdened with 


worry. There will lie great heat, fear and anxiety in 
the world. 


If Jupiter, Saturn and Rahu are all in Hasta, to- 
gether or separately, they bring sorrow and grief to the 
ruler or king and poverty and misery to the subjects. 
There is no doubt about this fact. 


If Saturn is in Chitta, free from any connection 
or link with the Sun, merchants make huge profit as 
prices of all commodities (food, etc.) go up very high. 


If Saturn is in Swathi and Visakha, it certainly 
brings sorrow to the kings or rulers. 


There will certainly be a revolution when Satum 
and Mars are in Swathi and the Sun in Revathi. 


When Satum is in Anuradha and Jyeshta, there 
will be a great heatwave over Western countries, 
destroying a good section of the population. 


By stocking food grains when Satum is in Moola 
and Mercury is in Swathi or Aridra, huge promts can 
be reaped by selline the same at a later date. 


The prices of wood and fire-wood will go up appre- 
ciably everywhere when Satum is in Purvashadha, and 


dealers in these commodities can make very good 
profits. 


When Satum is in "Uttarashadha’, there will be 
a scarcity of water, due to no rain for seven months, 


and tanks, wells, rivers will dry up, causing anxiety 
and grief to the people. 


The prices of all commodities (food grains), and 
particularly of wheat, w ill go up very high w hen Satum 
and/or any other cruel or evil planet enters Sravana. 


There will be a failure of rains, the skies will be 
cloudy and it may even thunder but no rain will be 
forthcoming when Satur, Mars and Venus (all the 
three) are in Dhanishta. 


The prices of wheat will go up throughout the 
world if Jupiter enters Satatara and Mars enters Chitta. 


If Saturn is in Purvabhadra. there will be good 


rains, and happiness and prosperity throughout the 
world. 


If Saturn is in Uturabhadra and Revathi, there will 
be epidemics (sickness or diseases) in the world and 
the people will be threatened by their rulers and rajahs. 


CHAPTER VI 


Results of the Week Days when Sun enters 
into the Signs of the Zodiac 


It is important to observe the results produced 
when the Sun enters a sign of the Zodiac in each month, 
on the seven days of the week. 


Sun enters a sign on Sunday: There will be a war 
between rulers. The prices of food grains will soar 
up very high. Poverty and sorrow will increase. Alarm- 
ing rumours will be rampant over all parts of the earth. 


Sun enters a sign on Monday: There will be happi- 
ness, gaiety and pleasure everywhere. Commodities, 


including food grains, will become cheap, as also gems 
like coral, pearls, etc 


Sun enters a sign on Tuesday: prices of essential 
commodities like salt, ghee, oils, camphor and other 
water-containing or water-aided products will go up 
in prices, causing great hardships to people. 


Sun enters a sign on Wednesday: the prices of 
all articles will be normal; there will be epidemics and 


anxiety prevalent and there will be only scanty rains 
here and there. 


Sun enters a sign on Thursday: People will be 
healthy and happy, more charitable. There will be 
good crops and rates will be low. 

« 


Sun enters a sign on Friday: Only jaggery will 
be available at high prices, other commodities at 
normal prices. Rates of oils, horses, elephants, camels, 
etc., will come down. 


Sun enters a sign on Saturday: There will be a 
cruel and fierce fight between the subjects and their 
rulers. There will he a great epidemic breaking out 
widely and prices of commodities will show an upward 
trend. 


It is definite that if of the number of days of the 
month, the dark or gloomy half exceeds the bright or 
cheerful half and if the Sun enters the sign of the Zodiac 
on a Saturday, a Sunday or a Tuesday, there will be 
no rain and political anarchy will prevail. 


CHAPTER VU 
Results of Planets in Different Signs of the Zodiac 


Effects produced by planets in the Zodiac are 
explained in this chapter. 


1. Results of Planets in Mesha 


Sun in Mesha: Prices of cotton, sugarcane, 
oils, fruits and vegetables will go up. 


Moon in Mesha: Very bad consequences to 
the world as when Venus and Mars are in 
Makara and Kumbha. 

Mars in Mesha: Rulers and rajahs will tend to 
be jealous, envious and quarrelsome; prices 
of gems and other precious stones (coral, 
etc.) will rise but prices of food grains will 
go down. 

Mercury in Mesha or Vrischika: Prices of qua- 
drupeds (cows, buffaloes, etc.) will go up; 
rate of gold will be steady for certain. 

Jupiter in Mesha: Happiness will prevail and 
prices of all commodities will be within easy 
reach of the common man, will give rise to 
general good health everywhere. 

Venus in Mesha: Prices of quadrupeds will 
suffer due to diseases amongst the animals 
and prices of food grains and other essential 
commodities will rise appreciably. 

Satum in Mesha: Prices of precious stones 
(Padmaraga) and precious metals (gold, 
silver, copper, etc.), will go up. 


If Rahu is in combination with a cruel or malig- 
nant planet and enters into Méesha, there 
will certainly be widespread famine. 


2. Results of Planets in Vrishabha 


Mars in Vrishabha: Prices of commodities like 
scents, kumkum, doth and cotton will show 
a rise. 

Mercury in Vrishabha: Wars will threaten to 
break out in various parts of the world. 

Jupiter in Vrishabha: There will be a good 
harvest of food crops and general prosperity, 
but prices of milk and ghee will go up. 

Satum in Vrishabha: Rulers and kings will 
quarrel amongst themselves and seal _ their 
own fate. The chief varieties of food grains 
will be dearer in price. 

Rahu and Mars (together) in Vrishabha: A very 


grave scarcity of food grains and other com- 
modities will arise and continue for six months 


for certain. 


3. Results of Planets in Mithuna 
Sun in Mithuna: Prices of cotton, food-stuff, 
and vegetables growing under the surface 
of the earth will rise up high. 


It is certain that it will rain when the Moon 
remains either in Mithuna or Kanya in the 


season of Varsha (July-August). 


If Rahu remains in Kanya when the Sun is in 
Mithuna, fields with crops will fetch better 
prices and upward trend in prices of general 
commodities will be certain. 

There will be a heavy rainfall if Saturn is in 
Tula, Rahu is in Dhanus and Jupiter (Guru) 
and Mars are in Mithuna. 

If Mercury is in Mithuna or Kanya, there will 
be heavy rains and strong winds blowing. 

Jupiter in Mithuna: Scarcity of rain, great 
heat and fear, quarrels and fights amongst 
kings and rajahs are evident. 

Satum in Mithuna forebodes a crucial period 
of great famines and the death and destruc- 
tion of several kings and rajahs. 

The same result may be noted when Rahu is 
in Mithuna, but the prices of all commodities, 
especially ghee, will be steady. 


4. Results of Planets in Kalaka 


There will be rain on the day the constellation 
is Aslesha, prices of food-stuff will nse gra- 
dually. 

When the Moon enters Kataka (in conjunction 
with evil planets), prices of food grains will 
show a rise for two days. 

It is certain if Mars in Kataka indicates a general 
rise in the prices of all commodities, 
quadrupeds (cows, buffaloes, etc.) and sugar- 


cane. 


=e 


Mercury in Kataka will increase the existing 
sorrow and lend to decrease the happiness, 
prosperity, etc. 

Jupiter in Kataka: There will be a smaller rain- 
fall causing famines and fights and war bet- 
ween kings and rulers. 


If Mercury and Venus are both in Kataka, famines 
will prevail and the prices of all commodities 
will shoot up for a period of six months. 

If Satum is in Kataka, Nagpur will be destroyed 
or ravished by a severe famine, but there will 
be prosperity in the rest of the country. 

The prices of metals will go down immediately 
but show a great increase at the sixth month 
only and thieves (robbery, etc.) will cause 
trouble when Rahu is in Kataka. 


Results of Planets in Siniha 


Sun in Simha: Prices of sweet commodities 
(sugar, sugarcane and jaggery, etc.), metals 
w hich arc red and oils, etc., will go up appre- 
ciably. 


Mars in Simha: Prices of commodities and 
goods, red in colour only, gold and silver 
will show an increase. 


Mercury in Simha: The trade in grains will 
be normal, but yam, medicines, scents, tama- 
rind, curds, etc., will show an increase in 
price. 


Jupiter in Simha: Very good rains for certain, 
yielding good crops, and prosperity can be 
foreseen. 

As long as Venus remains in Simha, the prices 


of gold, quadrupeds of a red colour and 
food grains will rise. 


Saturn in Simha: Prices of commodities will 
be normal, except in the case of jaggery and 
oils which will show a rise in prices. Further 
there will be famine or destruction in the 
district of Malwa. 


Rahu in Simha: Fourfold profits to dealers in 
ginger, pepper, pipal, etc. 


6. Results of Planets in Kanya 


The Sun in Kanya will make the prices of medi- 
cines, ragi reach a high level in six days. 


Mars in Kanya: Prices of silk cloth, scents and 
grains and cloth red in colour will rise up 
to high levels. 


Mercury in Kanya: Dealers in commodities 
like gold, sugar, etc., will be greatly benefited 
as prices will increase for a period of six 
months and will come down after six months 
further. 


Jupiter in Kanya: Plenty of rain, bringing 
down prices of grains and other articles and 


making people happy and prosperous are 
indicated. 


Venus in Kanya: The prices of all food grains, 
etc., will go up especially rice. Crops will 
be ruined by natural agencies. 


Satum in Kanya: There will be little rain, 


scarcity of water, havoc wrought by whirl- 


winds, destruction to rulers, kings and states 
in the middle of the country. 


Rahu in Kanya: The prices of pipal and tama- 
rind will go up to two or three times their 
original prices within two to three months. 


7. Results of Planets in Tula 


Sun in Tula: It is inauspicious to the elephants; 
rates of gold, silver and all food grains will 
show an increase. 


Mars in Tula: The prices of commodities 
(food grains), particularly black gram, green 
gram, cotton, cotton yarn, will tend to rise. 


Mercury in Tula : Good rains but more quarrels 
will be the order of the day. 


Jupiter in Tula: There will be a gradual slow 
rise in prices of food grains. General con- 
ditions will be eased: there will also be a 
good harvest, but fever and disease will 
be spreading in the world. 


Venus in Tula: Though the times will be good, 
individuals will create trouble and quarrel 


amongst themselves and get ruined by ven- 
geance and animosity. 


43 


Saturn in Tula: Farmers will lose money from 
their lands through ill-luck. Prices of the 
seven main types of food grains will go up 
and there will be grave threats of fire havocs 
on the earth. 


Rahu in Tula: There will be cruel famine and 


all the crops will be ruined if Rahu is in com- 
bination with another evil planet. 


8. Results of Planets in Vrischika 


Sun in Vrischika: There will be a small rise 
in the prices of woollen clothing, gold, silver 
and similar metals, but prices of food grains, 
etc., will be steady. 


Mars in Vrischika: Kings will become quarrel- 
some and ready to fight and the prices of all 
commodities will increase. 


Jupiter in Vrischika: There will be a famine due 
to the scarcity of rains and people will be 
more prone to commit sins, etc. 


Venus in Vrischika: Prices of commodities will 


be normal; people will be happy and content 
without let or hindrance. 


Satum in Vrischika: The city of Delhi will suffer 
through famine or be destroyed and be left 
in ruins due to natural causes. There will 
also be great sorrow on the earth. 


Rahu in Vrischika: One can obtain one’s heart's 
desire or gain one’s object by greater 


44 


perseverance and endeavour. A new horror will 
spread over the country within six months. 


0 Results of Planets in Dhanus 


Sun in Dhanus: The prices of general com- 
modities will be within easy reach of everyone, 
but trade in oil and cotton will increase. 


Moon in Dhanus or in Mcena: There will be 


rain on that day, particularly if in the Varsha 
season. 


Mars in Dhanus: Prices of mined articles or 
articles grown under the soil, gram, jute, 
fire-wood, ghee, cotton, quadrupeds (cows, 
buffaloes, etc.) will increase. 


Mercury in Dhanus or Meena: Animals (ele- 
phants, etc.) will die in larger numbers and 
disagreement will prevail between the rulers 
or kings and the subjects, though nothing 
untoward will occur. 

Jupiter in Dhanus: Crops will flourish in rainy 
season and the prices of commodities like 
wheat, oils, butter, etc., will increase. 


Venus in Dhanus: All the crops will be des- 


troyed and the prices of all commodities will 
increase. 


Satum in Dhanus: In spite of thunder, thunder- 
storms and cloudy skies there will be no rain. 
Scarcity of water and famine will be the order 
of the day. 


Rahu in Dhanus: For a period of five months 
before this event the prices of horses and 
elephants will begin rising for certain. 


10. Results of Planets in Makar a 


Sun in Makara: The prices of all commodities 
will be below normal (except in the case of 
oils and ghee which will on the contrary go 
up in prices). 

Mars in Makara: There will be general sorrow 
and grief in the country. The prices of all 
commodities will be less than usual, except 
in the case of oils and ghee which will show 
a rise in prices. 

Mercury in Makara: Normal trade in all com- 
modities and just the usual difficulties experi- 
enced. 

Jupiter in Makara: There will be auspicious 
results after three months of suffering from 
the worst famine. Kings will be engaged in 
warfare. 

Venus in Makara: Normal trade prices will 
be ruling but crops will be damaged by natural 
agents. 

Saturn in Makara: A bad sign for passionate 
people. The crudest famine will prevail. 
Fortunate days for foreigners. 

Rahu in Makara: Great profits will be made 
by dealers handling yarn, lead, etc., in the 
third month after Rahu enters Makara. 


46 


Results of Planets in Kumbha 


Sun in Kumbha: The market rates of salt and 
oils will increase, but the prices of other com- 
modities will be normal. 

Mars in Kumbha: People will be undaunted 
by the rise in prices of all commodities. 

Jupiter in Kumbha: There will be a scarcity 
of rainfall or even no rainfall, causing the 
prices of food grains to go up in Eastern 
countries and even famine. 

Venus in Kumbha: There will surely be increas- 
ed famine, yet not causing general hardships. 

Satum in Kumbha: The prices of all commo- 
dities will go up for a period of one year on 
the banks of the Yamuna river. 


Rahu with cruel planets in Kumbha: Merchants 
will greatly be benefited in the sixth month 
by stocking yam, wheat, etc. 


12. Results of Planets in Meena 


Sun in Meena: The prices of all commodities 
will rise, but the prices of salt, oil, etc., will 
come back to normal very soon. 


Mars in Meena: It will be profitable to know that 
the prices of grass, fire-wood, oxen, etc., will 
go up. 

Jupiter in Meena: There will positively be a 
famine in Eastern countries but soon after- 
wards peace and plenty can be expected. 


Saturn in Meena: There will be a worst possible 
famine. Seas, rivers, ponds, channels, etc., 
will be destroyed and animals killed or other- 
wise dying. 

Rahu in Meena: It will be advisable to stock 
food-stuffs as there will be famine for a year, 
but better limes will then prevail. 


CHAPTER VIII 


Results of Combinations of Planets in One House 
(as Famine, War. Good or Bad Tunes, etc.) 


Events consequent on the combinations of dif- 
ferent planets are mentioned in this chapter. 


It ‘will be a very bad time for the Eastern countries 
when the six planets. Sun. Rahu. Mars, Moon, Venus 
and Satum, are in the same house. This will cause 
anxiety all over the world, kings will have very unfor- 


tunate days and itinerant thieves with nimble fingers 
will be busy robbing travellers. 


There will be great destruction of the people in 


Southern countries when the following five planets are 
in one house, 7... 


Sun, Mars, Rahu, Mercury and 
Saturn. 


There will be a great famine and anarchy will 


prevail; the populace will be engaged against their king 


or ruler when Mars, Saturn. Sun. Rahu, Full Moon 
and Jupiter arc in one house. 


The prices of all commodities will go up when Sun, 
Jupiter. Venus and Mars arc in one house. 


There is sure to be anarchy and the public will 
greatly suffer when Mars, Sun, Mercury, Moon and 


Jupiter are in Simha. This is the worst combination 
for the king or ruler of a state. 


49 


Olden books and astrologers say that if Sun, 
Mercury and Venus are all in one house, the prices of 
all commodities (food-stuffs) will increase. 


There will be a havoc wrought by fire and panic 
caused by whirlwinds when Sun, Venus and Jupiter 
are in one and the same constellation (or nakshatra). 


It will be very cloudy and heavy rains will fall 
when Sun, Venus and Jupiter, are in the same house. 


The rates of ghee, wheat, oil and food grains will 
be greatly increasing when the Sun, Mars and Venus 
are in one and the same constellation house. 


There will be good rains, all commodities will be 
cheaper, there will be prosperity among the people, 
etc., when the Sun, Venus, Jupiter, Rahu and Saturn 
ure in one house. 


When the Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Rahu and Satum 
(Sani) are in one house, there will be good rains along 
with commodities becoming cheaper at the same time. 


Kings or rulers will be ruined if Mars, Saturn, 
Venus and Jupiter are in one and the same house. 


If Saturn and Mars are in one and the same house, 
there will be famine and more havoc caused by fire. 


The combination of Saturn, Venus, Jupiter and Mars 
in one house shows that there will be scanty rainfall 
only causing ruination to farmers, but articles or com- 
modities red in colour will increase in price (e.g. 
Saffron, Kumkum, etc.). 


The prices of all the chief cight metals will go up, 
there will be famine causing general grief to the public 


when Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Mercury and Rahu are 
in one house. 


If the Sun, the Moon and Jupiter are in one and 
the same constellation, there will be bad limes for those 
who live in the middle or centre of the country. But 
those who collect or lay in stocks of wheat, greengram, 


better quality cloths, etc., can make substantial profits 
in the seventh month. 


If the Sun, Mercury, the Moon, Jupiter and Venus 
arc in one and the same house, the clouds will yield 


good rains but the prices of food grains will go up in 
the north-eastern side of the country. 


When the Sun. Jupiter. Venus. Saturn are in one 
sign or house there will be great difficulties experienced 


by the rulers as well as the general public throughout 
the world and prices of all commodities will go up. 


The rates of all commodities will be steady as at 


normal times, but severe whirlwinds will be generated 
if Venus and the Sun are in the same sign. 


If Saturn. Rahu and Jupiter are all in the same 
house, there will be hailstorms. This combination 
will bring the troops of the State into disquiet and grief, 


causing anxiety to the rulers. Further food grains 
will become very cheap. 


If Mars be in Makara on the day the New Moon 
comes out in the month of Aswija, the subjects of the 


51 


state will be destroyed by their rulers or by epidemics; 
merchants will lose in business. 

When Jupiter, Venus and Mars are in one and 
the same constellation or house, there will be pros- 
perity and a decline in the prices of all commodities, 
great profits can be amassed by stocking food grains 
at this time and selling them in the fourth month. 

There will be famine if Mercury happens to lie 
between the Sun and Venus, i.e, when they lie in the 
order: the Sun, Mercury and lastly Venus. 

There will be an abundance or even an over- 
abundance of food grains at cheap rates when Saturn 
and Venus are at one and the same house. 


The rulers will suffer from diseases and a general 
anxiety will prevail amongst the people when the Sun 
is in Mesha and Mars in Vrishabha. 

There will be a revolt or anarchy and a threat of 
fire havocs and famine if Venus, Mars and Saturn arc 
m Vrishabha. 

There will be a famine caused by an excess of rain- 
fall; it not being possible even to sow seeds, when 
Saturn, the Sun, Venus and Mars are in Mesha. 


The world will be devastated by wars and un- 
necessary bloodshed amongst rival rulers or kings when 
Mars, Rahu and Venus are in one house. 

There will be a famine when Saturn is in Meena, 
Jupiter in Kaiaka and Mars in Tula. 

Scarcity of rains will be the order of the day and 
the value of quadrupeds (cows, oxen, etc.) will be 
more when Mars, Venus and the Moon are in Meena. 


CHAPTER IX 


Results of Combinations of Planets on the 
Days of the Month 


Generally there arc twelve Lunar months in a year: 
but when a leap year month comes once in four years 
an extra month comes and makes 13 months according 
to Indian Ephemeris (Panchanga). The Lunar month 
(Stellar) starts when the Moon enters the first degree 
of Mesha or Aries in the Lunar month of Chaitra which 
generally falls between March and April of the English 
Calendar year. One should know that these Stellar 
months are named according to the Full Moons on which 
day the Moon will be under the said star or constella- 
tion as: on the Full Moon day of the month of Chaitra 
it is understood that the moon is in Chaitra Nakshatra. 
On Full Moon of Vaisakha month. Moon will be in 
Visakha Nakshatra, etc. The following are the twelve 
Lunar months of the year, and also the seasons or Rutus 
are also given accordingly: 


1. Chaitra. 2. Vaisakha 3. Jyeshta 
Ashadha 5. Sravana 6. Bhadrapada 
. Aswya 8. Kartika 9. Margasira 
10. Pushya 11. Magha 12. Phalguna. 


Six Seasons 


(1) Chaitra + (2) Vaisakha 
= Vasantha—Summer. 


(3) Jyeshta + (4) Ashadha 
= Greeshma—Windy. 


(5) Sravana (6) Bhadrapada 
— Varsha—Rainy 
(7) Aswija + (8) Kartika 
= Sarad—Pleasant (clear). 


(9) Margasira + (10) Pushya 
= Hemanilu—'Winter (cold) 


(II) Magha +(12) Phalguna 
= Sisira—Autumn. 


It is very important to know the effects of the days 
of the week as also the effects resulting out of their 
combination with the different months which lead us 
to draw conclusions showing their sum effect on our 
everyday life. This has been explained to some length 
in this chapter. 


If Tuesday or Wednesday be the fifth (5th) day 
of the bright half of the Lunar month of Chaitra. the 
prices of wheat and ghee will go up in that month. 

You may be rest assured that if it rains on the fifth 
(5th) day of the bright half of the month Chaitra, there 


will be no rain in the month of Sravana of the same 
year 


Great profits can be made within two months by 
stocking ghee, oils and yam, etc., when Venus 
and Jupiter are in one house in the month of Chaitra. 


If the number of days in the bright half of the 
month of Chaitra exceeds those in the dark half, there 


54 


will be an easy flow of cheap commodities (especially food 
grains) on the earth. 


The prices of red cloth, bronze-ware, nuts, copper, 
coconuts and pipal will go up if a Saturday be the 
seventh (7th) day of the dark half of Vaisakha (Lunar 
month) and if at the same time Mars be in one of 
the four constellations: Bharani, Krittika. Rohini or 
Mrigasira. 


The market rates of sugarcane, betel leaves, 
medicinal salts, red sandalwood (and scents) will go up 
if the thirteenth (13th) day of the dark half of Vaisakha 
be a Tuesday. 


If the first (1st) day of the dark half of the month 
Jyeshta be a Tuesday, a Wednesday or a Sunday, the 
people will suffer from all sorts of diseases. But if 
the same day falls on a Monday, a Thursday, or a 
Friday, there will be excessive rainfall and possibly 
floods. On the other hand, if the same day be a Satur- 
day, there will be anarchy or revolution and famine 
accompanied by an epidemic. 


There will be no rain in any year in the season of 
Varsha” and a great dread will seize the people if 
there arc clouds in the sky on the day the New Moon 
comes out in the Lunar month, Jyeshta. 


If the Moon is seen amongst clouds on the eighth 
(8th) day of the dark half of the month of Ashadha, 
there will be heavy rains in that year but if the Moon 
rises clearly there will be no rain (yet water will be 
found in wells). 


55 


If there are more days in the bright half of Ashadha 
than in the dark half, everything will be cheap for a 
period of three months, but later the prices of grains 
will rapidly increase. 


If it is cloudy and rains on the seventh (7th) day 
of the bright half of the month of Sravana, the crops 
will grow well in that year and all commodities will 
be cheap. 

If it rains on the day the constellation Krittika 
is in power in the month of Sravana, the rains will 
continue for a period of four months and a good harvest 
will be reaped. 


If the eighth (8th) day of the dark half of the month 
of Bhadrapada (with Rohini constellation) happens to be 
a Saturday, Friday or Sunday, the prices of wheat, wheat 
products, turmeric, jeera, quicksilver, lead, musk, asafee- 
tida, til, oils, jaggery, etc., will go up. If merchants sell 
Ihe above-mentioned commodities after three months 
after the day stated above, good profits can be made. 


I here will be good profit collected by selling com- 
modities stocked in the month of Bhadrapada in the 
6th month after that, if it rams on the second day 
of Bhadrapada 

If the luminaries (the Sun and the Moon) are 
clouded, i.e., not clearly seen, the prices of commodities 
like medicinal salts, yarn. etc., will go up in the 
following 6th month. 


If Jupiter and Saturn retrograde on the 8th day 
of the dark half of the month of Aswija, the prices of 
medicines and yarn will go up. 


56 


There will be a general scarcity or dearth of food 
grains all over the earth if the Sun be in its own con- 


stellation on the thirteenth day of the month of Aswija, 
only if the day be a Saturday. 


If Satum retrogrades in the month of Aswija. 
Mercury changes his house and Venus sinks at the 


influence exerted by the Sun, there will be an abundant 
harvest. 


If Rahu and Saturn are combined in one and the 


same house in the month of Aswija, the prices of jute, 
yarn, ghee, oils will increase. 


If the Sun is encircled (Parivesha) on the first day 
of the month of Kartika, merchants dealing in Til 
(Sesame) and oils will suffer slight losses. 


If the Sun is screened off by clouds on the four- 
teenth day of the New Moon in the month of Mar- 


gasira. that year all commodities will be cheap and 
people will prosper. 


There will be great difficulty all over the country 


throughout the year when the southern winds blow 


on a Saturday which must be the second day of the 
bright half of the month of Margasira. 


If the fifth day of the dark half of the month of 


Pushya be a Tuesday, there will be good rains and 
flourishing crops. 


If storms or clouds come from the east and it 
thunders on the ninth or eleventh day of the month 
of Pushya, the prices of all food commodities will 
rapidly increase. Further people will be poverty- 


57 


stricken, bony and wandering individuals in search of 
food grains which will be unobtainable for want of ram; 
people residing in the western districts of the country 
may have to migrate to other sections for lack of food. 


If it thunders and there be clouds in the sky in 
the middle of the night of the eighth day of the dark 
half of the month of Pushya, there will be good rains 
for a period of four months in the following year. 


If the thirteenth day of the bright half of Pushya 
falls on a Saturday or a Tuesday, there will be a failure 
of rains and the prices of food grains (especially wheat) 
will go up. 

If the second or the third day of the dark half of 
the month of Magha falls on a Friday or a Saturday, 
there will be a severe war with deadly weapons on the 
earth, but if it falls on a Thursday, there will be good 
rains and prosperity. 

If the fifth, sixth andjseventh days of the dark 
half of the month of Magha, happen to be Friday, 
Saturday and Monday respectively, there will be 
heavy rains in the months of Sravana and Bhadrapada, 
yielding good crops. If only one combination of the 
three as above is present, the prices of wheat, green 
grams, rice, etc., will go up in the month of Bhadrapada. 


If there are few showers on the thirteenth day 
= of the month of Magha, every commodity will become 
cheap. 

If Mars or Saturn retrograde in the month of 
Phalguna or Chaitra on any day, the prices of food 


grains will be fourfold within a fortnight or a month 


at the latest. Those who do not lay by stocks will 
later repent. 


If Jupiter comes under the influence of the Sun 
or retrogrades in the month of Phalguna, all commo- 


dities will become cheap and happiness and prosperity 
will be the fortune of the people. 


It is certain that the prices of all sorts of grains 
will be more if Venus gets influenced by the Sun on 
the New Moon day of the month of Phalguna. 


If the number of Full Moons is greater than the 
usual number, twelve in a year, the prices of wheat, 
rice, ghee, etc., will go down that year. 


If in a leap year month or short month Satum 


changes his house, there will certainly be fear by severe 
rains and hail storms. 


There will be little rain in the months of Sravana 
and Bhadrapada if Jupiter and Mars 


change their 
houses in a leap year month or short month. 


CHAPTER X 


Results of the Different Movements 
of the Planets, etc. 


In this chapter the results of the different motions 
of the planets (retrograde motions, etc.) arc explained. 


If Mars is in retrograde motion, the prices of all 


commodities will go up and there will be a threat of 
famine breaking out. 


There will be general anxiety in the world and the 
prices of food commodities, especially ghee, will go 
up if Mars retrogrades in Dhanus or Meena. 


If Mars retrogrades cither in Vrishabha or in 
Tula, there will be famine, bloodshed and great uneasi- 
ness felt ending in people having to leave their country. 


The prices of all products of sugarcane (sugar, 
jaggery, etc.), will increase and the other food com- 


modities will go down in prices if Mercury be in retro- 
grade motion. 


Milk products, like curds, butter, ghee, etc., will 
become cheap and there will be a better understanding 


between the rulers and their subjects when Jupiter is 
it. retrograde motion. 


Only the rate of ghee will go up, all other 
commodities will be cheaper and people will prosper 


and be happy when Jupiter is in retrograde motion 
In the constellation of Makha. 


The merchant who stocks food grains when Saturn 
is in his own house and Jupiter is in retrograde motion, 
will make profits four times his investments. 


When Venus retrogrades, in Vrishabha. Tula and 
Kataka and then moves directly back in the same houses, 


there will be happiness and prosperity for subjects 
and rulers alike. 


The stocks of food grains will decay and there will 
be a bad time for quadrupeds when Satum retrogrades 
in the constellation of Aswini or Bharani. 


The rates of wheat, rice and ghee will go up a 
good deal when Saturn moves backwards from Makha 
to Aslesha (both constellations). 


If Saturn be in Kanya or in Meena, there will be 
wars between various rulers and there will also be 
famines and anxiety in the world. 


If Saturn moves backwards from  Jyeshta 
to Anuradha constellation the prices of silver and 
gold will increase in that period. 


Capitalists or wealthy people will be hard hit or 
even ruined and there will be famines when Satum 


retrogrades from Uttarashadha to Purvashadha con- 
stellation. 


If Satum retrogrades with Jupiter in his own house, 
the rat-s of wheat, oils and Til will be higher for a 
period of nine months. 


There will be unfortunate happenings in the world, 


like famine and bloody rulers, when the beneficial planets 
be in fast motion. If malefic planets be in fast motion, 


61 


every commodity will become cheap and people will 
be prosperous. 


When beneficial planets are in fast motion and 
Jupiter retrogrades, there will be a lowering of prices 
of all commodities making people happy and _ pros- 
perous along with their rulers. 


If cruel or malign planets are in retrograde motion 
and the beneficial planets are in fast motion, there 
will be anarchy, revolution, famine and epidemics in 
the world. 


CHAPTER XI 


Results of the Circles of the Moon 


It is highly advisable to trade in anything and 
everything when the Moon is encircled and in the first 
three constellations Aswini, Bharani or Kriltika. 


There will be good rains in the Western and 
Northern districts if Moon is encircled when in the 
constellation Punarvasu. 


There will be good rains, within two or three 
days, if the Moon is encircled when in the Pushya 
constellation. 


There will be rain on the day the Sun is bright 
and the Moon in the constellations Chitta or Swathi. 


It will certainly rain if the Moon is encircled when 
in the constellations Uttara, Hasta, Chitta or Swathi. 


If it does not rain even a drop when the Sun is 
in the constellation of Revathi, the last star, there will 
be very good rain in the season of Varsha. 


This Saptha Varga table is prepared as said above 
to show the various Vargas and to find out the energy 
or strength of the lord of Lagna and of each planet 
depending on the number of Vargas of each planet situa- 
ted in its own Varga and friends’ Varga, enemies’ Varga, 


63 


etc. The Sidereal time noted in these columns are 
calculated only on the Indian *Suramana" basis and 
not the Solar Sidereal time. But the Varga table is 
applicable for both Stellar as well as Solar systems if 
one desires to apply them. It is a strong planet if a 
planet owns all the 7 Vargas and its strength reduces 
according to the number of Vargas it is less than this 
maximum. One should find out the strength of all 
the planets and the lord of Lagna before concluding 
the results to predict which depends on this strength. 
Ancestors were predicting the rise and fall of prices 
of commodities and the results of the horoscopes— 
personal, national, political, commercial or otherwise 
depending on this strength generally and so this table 
is given here for use of our readers. 


The following shows 


each other: 


For 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


‘Venus 


Saturn 


Enemies 


Saturn 
‘Venus 


Mercury 


Moon 


Mercury 
Venus 


Sun 
Moon 


Moon 
Mars 
Sun 


64 


the friends or 


Friends 


Jupiter 
Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 
Sun 


Jupiter 
Moon 
Sun 


Venus 
Sun 


Moon 
Mars 


Sun 


Saturn 
Mercury 


Mercury 
Venus 


enemies of 


Equals 


Mercun 


Saturn 
Venus 

Jupiter 
Mars 


Saturn 
Venus 


Saturn 
Jupiter 
Mars 


Saturn 


Jupiter 
Mars 


Jupiter 


65 


There are three ways of finding out the lord of 
the three Decanates or Drekkanas of each sign or Rasi: 


First method.—They are lords of the Ist, 5th and 
9th in respect of that Rasi. 


Second method—They are the lords of: (a) The 
Ist. 5th and 9th in the case of a Movable sign. (6) The 
9th. Ist and 5th in the case of a Fixed sign, (c) The 
5th, 9th and Ist in the case of a Dual sign. 


Third method.—They are the lords of the Ist, 12th 
and with with respect to that sign. 


This table is according to the above second view 
only. 


Hora = Dicekkana Sapta. Nava- Dwada- — Trim- 


Days Siderent! -Lugna 
time mamsiat mamsa Ssumsa sanisa 
U- 0- 0 O- 0 Sut Mesha Mesha Mesha Mesha Mare 
t oO 3 12 I~ 0- 0 rsd oe Lad st By id 
2 0- 6-24 2- 0- 0 ‘i ‘ “ ” ” ” 
Q- §- 0 2-30- 0 ” .” er ‘s os ” 
3 O= 9-36 3- 0-0 os ss or ‘a Vrishabha . 
0-10-40 3-20- 0 ” " fe nw ed rd 
4 0-12-48 4-0-6 - es ae Vrishabha ‘7 " 
0-13-42 6/7 4-17- 84/7 a " " ” " ” 
5 0-16- 0 54 0. 0 @ ey Vrishabha ‘i " " 
6 Q19-]2 6-00 FR a is Mithtina Saturn 
02 1-20 6-40. ia) a Lhd oe hd Ld Ld | 
7 0-22-24 7- 0- 0 ” is = Mithuna " a 
0-24— 6 7-30- 0 “ io ri pe " ” 
% 0-25~36 §- 6- 0 te ” Lhd ty Kataka oe 
Q-27-25 5/7 8-34-17 1/7 i se " ” " ” 
9 0-28-48 9- 0-0 ” ” Mithuaa " * ” 
10 0-32 0 10- 0- 0 is ve . ” ” ” 
1! Q-35-12 if- 0-0 Ma Simha is Katakn Simha Jupiter 
$2 Q~39~24 12- 0- 0 ” ” ” " ” ” 
O-40- 0 12-30- 0 LT oF td oe ” oF 
O-~d{— 3 4/7 12-51-25 5{7 ” " ve ” ” " 
Kataka * Kanyt is 


13 0-41-36 I3- 0- 0 Li te 


Ta a 


_y See — aA t— 1.4 Sa = ~ Sa “ ” 
r] ea it 6-1-9 ie o& é Da = - ‘y oo 7 
it O-S1~[2 i¢ 0.0 Sfooa " ” Tula " 
0-53-20 16-40- O ” u ” at ” a 
7 0-34-24 17+ 0- 0 os " ” Kanya ” ” 
0-54-51 3/7 17~ 8-34 2/7 i a " » 6 ” 
0-56- 0 17-30-0 . ” » Simba ” ” » 
8 0-57-36 [8 O- QO or te 7. Vrischika au 
19 {- 0-48 IS 0. 0 ” ” eT ” eT) Mercury 
20 1- 4-0 20- 0- 0 ya ” 's ” n 
21 1- 7-12 2I- 0. 0 Dhanus $i Thula Dhanus is 
I- 8-34 af? 21-33-42 6}? ay rh ” ” ‘ LT 
22 1-10-24 22- 0-0 ee ” Kanya ” ” au 
I-12~ 0 22-30- 0 ” n ord LE ” ” 
23 [el 3-36 23- O- 0 1. ae oT) we Makara Pa) 
I-14+16 23-20.- 0 » a "” of at a” 
24 1-16-48 24- 0-0 ” ” " Veischika ” . 
25 [-20- if] 25- o- 0 LD a a? 1.7 hd : 
1-22-17 uj? 25-42-51 7 es] "” ” ta a9 * 
u 26 1-23-12 26- 0+ 0 % be Tula = Kumbha 
£+25~-20 26-40- 0 n » ” bt 7) Venus 
I 27. 1-26-24 27- 0-0 i i - Dhanus re 
1-23- 0 27-30- 0 oy 7 ue oF : 
, 28 01-29-36 28- 0- 0 55 " si % Meena’ “ 
29 1-32-48 23- Q- 0 Prd fT) " vA as +s 
\-36- 0 30- 0- 0 a ” " Ld ” Ped 


—_____., 
- a a 


Days Sidereal Lagna Tiora Drekkana = Sapta- Nava- Dwada- Trim- 
niamsa mainisa samsa sansa 


time 


1-36- 0 0-0 0 Moon Makara = Yeischika Makara Vrishabha Venus 


3 1-39-36 !1- 0-0 ” ty oo " oe 
32 1-43-12 2- 0- 0 " ”" ” ” " ‘ 

145- 0 2-30- 0 rd iT] 1) Ly LT iid 
33 1-15-48 3- 0- O ” " ” ” Mithuna n 

1~48- 0 j=20= 0 we iy 1” Fad iy Hn 
4 1-50-24 4-0-0 iv Ae ‘ Kumbha ” ” 

151-25 5/7 dem B47, i " r a ‘ a 
3§ «1-54-00 5-0-0 ” vs Dhanus m " ” co 
36 1-57-36 6- 0 0 oT) ” a " Kataka Mercury 

2- 0- 0  EA0- 0 - ty ‘ " “i re 
37 2- 1-42 7-0-0 “i A oe Meenn ie ve 

2- 3- 0 7-30~ 0 o ws tm ow + iy 
38 2 4-48 8~ 0- 0 3 aS ‘i . Simha " 

2~ 6-31 3/7 8~34-17 1/7 Ty he as " e Pi) 
39 2~ §-24 Qa 0. 0 " eo, Makara ry i 
40 2-12- 0 10- 0- 0 ‘s ” . " " " 
4| 2-15-36 H- 0- 0 »  Vrishabha ‘ Mesha Kanya ‘s 
42 2-19-12 J2~ 0~ 0 ay - oy i) " 

2-2!- 0 2-30~ 0 ic ‘ie ss “ i Jupiter 

“” ” ae Z 


2-22-17 1/7 12-51-25 5/7 2. ons we " we 
= 4 ~~ bis Cables Pa Kumbhao = Tula ———e 


2-37-42 6[7 17- 8-34 2/7 " 
2-39- 0 17-30- 0 " 
48 2-40-48 1B- O- 0 ” 
49 2-44-24 19- 0-0 ” 
50 2-48- 0 20- 0-0 ” 
3! 2-51-36 21- 0- 0 7 
2-53- 8 4/7 21-25-42 6/7 " 
52 2-$5-12 22- 0- 0 " 
2-57- te] 22-30- 0 - 
$3 2-58-48 23- 0~ 0 ” 
3-0-0 23-20- 0 “ 
54 3 2-24 4-0 0 " 
55 3- 6- 0 25— - 0 " 
3- §-34 a7 2$-42-51 3/7 * 
$6 3- 9-36 26- 0- 0 
3-12- 0 26-40- 0 
$7 3-13-12 27- 0- 0 
3-15- 0 27-30- 0 
58 3-16-48 28- 0- 0 
59 3-20-24 29- 0 0 


3-24- 0 30- 0- 0 


+ 


Dhanus 


or 


Makara 


we 
Kumbha 


69 


ee 
Trim- 


Days Sidercal Lagna Hora DOrekkana Sapta- Nava Dwada- 
umo mamsa mama manisa samsa 
3-24- 0 O- 0-0 Sun Tula Mithuna Tula = Mithuna Mars 
6} 3-28-12 1- 0-0 Fr ” " » 
62 3-32-24 2- 0- 0 it ” we oe an i} 
3-34-30 2-30- 0 vf av i ” “ ” 
63 3+36-36 3- 0- 0 m 43 " “ Kataka ” 
3-38- 0 3-20- Q Ty ” ve us i + 
G4 A404 4-0-0 a fe Vrischika es + 
3-42- 0 4-17- 8 4/7 wi s is i t " ae 
6S 45-0 $-0-0 ” o Kataka rr ” * S 
66 3-49-12 6 0-0 ie es Pe Fe Simha Sani 
3-$2- 0 6-40~ 0 Fe a. En " " ” 
67 3-53-24 }- 0- 0 rT} rT) ee Dhanus ” had 
3-55-30 7+30-~ 0 rT) Ty rT] " 7) 
68 3-57-36 8~ 0- 0 ‘i fs i ‘ Kanya ‘i 
4. 0- o §-34-~17 if? a " ” La he oe 
69 4m f=48 9- O~ 0 i a Slimha ie ” " 
70 da 6+ o 10~ 0- 0 iT] ry Wy uF we me 
71 4-10-12 1]- 0-0 Ph Kumbha i Makara Tula Jupiter 
72 4-44-24 12~ 0-0 ‘i ‘i Yi ‘ . " ro 
d+16- 0 12-30— 0 b or’ ve & oe ir + oe iy . 
 4-18- 0 12-51-25 5/7 g en ‘i ” oo. | 
pO OT a |. Ee 


73 4-18-46 


13.02.90 


oc we ee a en re 
y Kumbha “ " 


i $-2I-S iz- 0- 0 . a 


a 
i§ 4-2 = 0 l5- O- 0 " ae ." oe 
76 4-31-12 16- 0- 0 Moon a Pe ‘ Dhanus ” 
f-34. 0 16—10- 0 iT] ” iy we Ty iT) 
47 4.)5-34 17— 0-0 fe ‘ ue Meena ‘ "” 
4-36~ 0 17~ 8-34 2/7 ” " " " " 
4-37-30 17-30- 0 i % Tula oF i rT 
78 4-39-35 18. 0- 0 - ‘i Pe ‘i Makara * 
79 443-48 19- 0- 0 FF " ” ” i Mercury 
&0 4-48- 0 20- 0- 0 - a ” ” ” ' 
8 4-$2-12 2f- 0-0 ji Mithun " Mesha Kymbha is 
4-$4- 0 21-25-42 6/7 ° Si i ia a is 
$2 456-24 22- 0- 0 co °F Vrischika ” . " be 
4-§8-30 22-30- 0 fT) aa ea te ” = 
83 S- 0-36 23- 0-0 ‘i ‘a i ‘i Mcena i “| 
§-2-0 21-30- 0 i « ae < ie - 7 
84 $- 4-48 24- 0-0 “ i i. Vrishabha " ” 
85 Sn. pe. 0 25~ Gg. 0 oo om ity id oF al 
$-12- 0 25-42-51 6/7 - ei Rf ” ” ” 
86 §-13~12 26- 0 0 . ‘ie Dhanus af Mesha Venus 
5-|6~ 0 26-40- 0 iy ic fr Pe " ” 
8? $~17-2. 27 U- 0 sy i: ‘s Mithuna +o Pe 
3-20- 0 27-30- 0 * ” ” or ” 
88 5-21-36 28- 0 0 Ti oe rr) . Vrishabha ” 
89 5-25-48 29- 0- 0 ” " ” ” ” " 


90 $+30- 0 30- 0- 0 Ss « ” 


Hora Drekkang 


Days Sidercal Lagoa 
time 

$-30- 0 0- 0- 0 Moon 
ot 5-34-24 tO-0 ” 
92 5-38-48 2- O 0 
5-4I- 0 2-30-— 0 " 
93 $-43-12 3- 0-0 _ 
$~44~10 3-20- 0 ” 
94 5-47-36 4~ 0- 6 * 
S-48-51 3/7 4-17~ 8 4/7 ” 
93 3-52- 0 §- 0- 0 ” 
96 5-56-24 6- 0- 0 oe 
$~59-20 6-40- 0 " 
97 6- 0-48 7+ 0- 0 ” 
G- 3-0 7-30- 0 ” 
98 6~ 5-12 8- 0- 0 ” 
6~ 7-42 6/7 8-34-17 1/7 " 
99 6+ 9-36 0- 0- 0 " 
100 6-I1- 0 10- 0- 0 " 
101 6-18-24 11- 0-0 ”* 
102 6-22-43 f2- 0- 0 ra 
6-25- 0 12~30- 0 it} 
6-26-34 2/7 12-51-25 5/7 . 
103 6-27-12 13- 0 0 » 


6-28-49 13-20- 0 o es : 


Moun 


” 


Sapla- WNava- Dwada- Trim- 
niamsa mamsa famsa sarisa 
Makara Kataka Kataka Venus 

itd on ii) id 

1? Li) ti) PT) 

Li) iT) or oe 

7 iT) Simha 1” 

i] “4 1) ae 

e Simha a a 

”- ih} oF LP d 

Kumbha . te > 
7 i Kanya Mercury 

" Kanya a " 

ii} iT) Lu La] 

it " Tula iT 

1 wo ia) oF 

Meena " Ty ” 

it) oo ay li 

ry) Tula Vrisch ika +" 

. cay a + 

o> an it on 

Mesha Pr Dhanus = Jupiter 


~ 
NY 


so) . ae a 


fs $-Hi - Is 3 © " ie Vrischika “ ‘ 
156 6-36- 0 1§-0- 0 Ao a ”“ ” “" ” 
106 6-40-24 i6- 0 0 Sun - ” ” Makara " 
6-43-20 16-40- 0 ” - " ” ” " 
107 644-48 17- 0- 0 "” a " Dhanus " 
6~45-25 7 l7- 8-34 2/7 os ow cil * " 7 
6-47- 0 17-30- 0 ix 7 Veishabha " ‘ " 
108 6-49-12 18- 0- G 1 7 uo to ot ” 
109 6-53-56 19- 0. 0 " ” » ” ” " 
110 6-58- 0 20- O- O " a ” ” " ” 
Hl T= 2-24 21-0 0 i Meena i Makara Meena Saturn 
T~ 4-17 1/7 21-25-42 6/7 _ 7 “ ee " ” 
112 q- 6~48 22- 0- 0 ” rtd Mithuna % os cid 
Tn 94 0 22-30- 0 ee ” Ts “ " " 
113 Fal to12 23- 0- 0 ” ” a " Mesha “" 
7-12-40 23-20- 0 te on il} os hd be 
114 Jot $-36 24- 0- 0 ” " ” Kumbha ” 7 
115 7-20- 0 25- 0O- 0 ity id as a id ” 
7-23~ 8 4/7 25~-42-5) 3/7 iT] id " + ae i 
116 7-24-24 26- 0- O ae Pt Kataka i Vrishubha = Mars 
7-27-26 26-10- 0 rr ” o ct ” 
1177-28-48 27- 0-0 ’ , . Meena fe 
7-1-0 27-30~ 0 be ae a ‘ ” 
18 ' = 7-33-12 24- 0- 0 ” As a is Mithuna 
119 7-37-36 29- 0-0 ts ” "* oo 
; 120 7-42~ 0 _ 30- 0-4 ” ” a i we 


cL 


Days Sidereal Legna Hora Drdkkana  Sapta- Nava- Dwada- Trims 


unite mamsa rmamsa samsa samsa 
7-42. 0 0-0 Sun Mesha Simha Mesha Simba Mars- 
121 7-46-24 {- 0-0 a rT + iF) +2 nm 
122° 7-50-48 2~.0- 0 “ha PT] rs] rr Pr ” 
7-33- 0 2-30 0 nn Ei Ea van ” " 
123 7-55-12 - 3- 0-0. ” "4 ” yal Kanya " 
7-56-40 3-20. 0 ‘i ‘ rr Be oe is 
124 7-59-36 4-0-0 " 3 a Vrishabha ” ” 
a 0-51 TF 4-l7- 34/7 ‘ry or La ” bed a 
125 §- 4-0 5-0-0 ” +” Kanya n “ a4 rN 
126 &- 8-24 60-0 $i i ii Thula Tula Saturn 
Po | |-20° Ho 0 oY " ry rey . bd ‘As 
127 8-12-48 7- 0-0 Pe S a MRhuna a FS 
78-15- 0 7-46~ 0 ag es i 1 ” re 
128 817-12 8-0-0 ‘i s _ a Vrischika ii 
8-19-42 6/7, B-34-17 17 “ a ” ia 7 o 
129°» 821-36. 9-0-6 P 3 Tals 33 5 se 
130 §~26- 0 10- O- a) uy Mu a PE] a, w 
1 8-30-24 H- & 0 fi Simha es Kataka Dhanus Jupiter 
132 234-48 12- O-. 0 bed Hl n ws td ELT 
"B37 i] 12-30. 0 a W cal 7] 43, a4 
8-38-34 2/7 12-31-25 Sf7 a a _ oF 2 ses a 
133 E-39-12 is fh O re ae Veischika - >~ Makara Rye 


ag rl Re Ly ea 


=~ te 3 i a BD se H Pm m = ze 
TE ti 0 is-& @ - 2 . ™ 1 “ 
(36 3-52-24 1§- O- 0 Moon . " is Kumbhs = 
§-55-20 16-40. 0 T ‘ ‘ " ” ” 
137 8-56-48 17 0-0 . ” ” Kanya » » 
§-§$7-25 5{7 178-34 27 i ” ” ” » ” 
§-59- 0 17-30- 0 <i oy Dhanus si - a3 
138 f= i-f2 18—0- 0 ue ” ” ra Meena: Et 
139 Fm 536 19-.0.- " » t. » ” Mercury 
140 9-10- 0 20- 0- 9 Pea " " ‘ ” ” 
41 9 T4-24 2i- & 0 - Dhanus i Tuts Mesha a 
Qf 6-17 1/7 2-25-42 6/7 a7, is ” " ” " 
142 9-18-45 22- O- 0 ” ” Makara aa » ~t 
9-21- 0 22-30- 0 ‘5 . . ; ie M 
wLd3 9-23-12 3-0-0 i » ie FA Vrishabha s 
9-24-40 94-70. 0 er’ ry sc ty a I 
144 9-27-36 2470-9 ' ” ." Vrischika ae a 
145 9-32- 0 23~ 0+ 6 ‘3 * ” ” * ” 
9-35- § af? 25-42-54 3j7 ty . oo » By 7 » - 
146 Qu.36-24 26- 0- 0 i a Kumbha a Mithuna Venus 
— 9-39-20 26—40- tt] a3 . an bE Lad Le) fly 
147 9-40-48 27-20 i 7 ” Dhanus ” ” 
9-43~ 0 27-30- 0 Pay < mn rr a, * 
148 9-45-12 28- 0- 0 1" ” » vi Me ” 
149 9-49-36 29- Oo 0 “ " a3 ” ” Pd 


150 9-54- 0 30- 0- 0 oe ” “ " ” 


I 


em me re mpc PP TT 


Hora Derekkana 


Days Siderial Lagna 
time 
9-54- 0 oe 0-0 Moon 
151 9-58-12 I~ 0-0 . 
152, 10- 2-24 2- 0-0 a" 
10- 4.30 2-30- 0 is 
153 10- 6-38 3- 0-0 " 
10- 8- 0 3-20- 0 " 
154 10-10-48 4- 0-0 . 
10-126 0 A-27=18 4/7 ” 
ts5 10-15-0 S~ Oe 0 " 
156 10-19-12 6-0 0 " 
10-22- 0 6-40- 0 ” 
AST = 10423424 7-0-0 ” 
10-25-30 7-0- 0 " 
158 10-2736 8- 0- 0 ” 
10-30- ( 8-34-17 1/7 7 
189 10-31-48 9-0- 0 " 
160 10-36- 0 10. 0 0 " 
161 10-40-12 N= 0-0 is 
162 10-44~24 12- 0 " 
10-46-30 12-30- 0 " 
10-48- 0 12-51-25 5/7 . 
163 10-48-30 13- 0- 0 ” 
13-20- 0 ~ 


10-1. 0. 


Makara 


Sapta- 
mamsa 


Meena 


Mesha 


ri 
Mithuna 


Wava- 
matvisa 


a. 


Makara 


Lad 


Dwada- 
SLUTS 


Kunya 


a 
Vrischika 


cas 


Dhanu 5 


Makara 


Kumbha 


Trims 
samsa 


Venus 


ai 


Jupiter 


te a-4> 
Il- +- & 
M- $-24 
1l- 6&6 
It~ 7-30 
11- 9-36 
11-13-48 
11-18- 6 
11-22-12 
11-24- 0 
11-26-24 
11-28-30 
1-30-36 
1i-32- 0 
11-34-38 
11-39- 0 
T+4#2- 0 
1-43-12 
1i+16- 0 
11-47-24 
11-49-30 
11-51-36 
11-55-48 
12+ 0+ 0 


1-0-0 
[T= 8-34 2/7 
17-30- 0 
1 0-0 
19- 6 0 
20. HU 
21- 0- 0 
21-25-42 6/7 
22- 0~ 0 
22-30- 0 
2) 0-0 
23-20- 0 
24~ 0 O 
25- 0- 0 
2$..42-$] 3/7 
26~ 0 0 
Mele O 
27-0 0 
27-30- 0 
28- 040 
29- 0- 0 
30- 0- 0 


Fd 


Simha 


Mesha 


Vrischika 


7 
Mithuna 


ti) 


Saturn 


LL 


Days 


181 
182 


4183 
184 


185 
186 


187 
139 
189 
190 


19] 
192 


Siderial 


time 


12- 0-0 
12~ 4-12 
12~ 8-24 
12~10-30 
12-12-36 
12-14- 0 
12-1648 
12-18- 0 
12-21 0 
12=25~12 
12-28 0 
12-29-24 
12-31-30 
12-33-36 
12-36~ 0 
12-37-48 
12-42~ 0 
I2-4G-12 
12-$0-24 
12-§2-30 
12-S4- 0 
12-$4-36 


Lugna 


0-0-0) 
1- 0- 0 
2-00 
2-30- 0 
3-0-0 
3-20- 0 
q~ 0-0 
417- 3 4/7 
§- 0-90 


8-34-17 1/7 
9-0-0 
10- 0- 0 
1}- 0-0 
12+ 6-0 
{2-30- 0 


12-51-25 5/7 
} 13- O- O 


Hora 


Sun 


Deekkurta 


Tula 


> 


Sa pla- Nava- 
nLite Mansa 


Tula Take 
uy at 
" re 
‘a Ed 
s Vrischika 
tt cro 
Vrischika ” 
1 se 
te ” 
‘ Dhanus 
+ ef | 
se ” 
Dhanus oo 
” ike 
Makara 


’ 


" 
Alakara 


a: 


Dwada- Trim- 
sams saMSsO 


Tula, = Mars 
PA ” 


» wy 


Vrischika ” 


A 


a, 
Dhanuy Sutum 


* nm 
[v7 ‘i 
” w 
Makara ‘" 
Ty ms 
e " 


( 


bn 


i 
£2-%- 
ie 3-0 
i3- 7-12 
13-10- 0 
[3-11-24 
13-12- 6 
13-13-30 
(3-15-36 
13-19-48 
13-24- 0 
13-28-12 
13-30- 0 
13-32-2 
13~34-30 
13-36-36 
13-38- 0 
13-40-48 
13-45- 0 
{3-48- 0 
(J~.49.-}2 
13-52- 0 
13-53-24 
13-55-36 
13-57-36 
I4- 1-48 
it~ 6- 0 


—— 


1 & & 
i<-& 0 
16- 0-0 
16—10- 0 
17~ 0-0 
J7~ 8-34 2/7 
17-30~ 0 
18- 0-6 
19~ 0- 0 
20-- 0- 0 
21- 0-0 
21-25~42 6/7 
22- 0-0 
22-30- 0 
23- 0- 0 
23-20- 0 
24- 0- 0 
25- 0- 0 
25—42-51 3/7 
26~- 0, 0 
26-10- 0 
27~ 0- 0 
27-30- 0 
28- 0- 0 
29- 0-0 
30+ O~ 0 


a 


. Meena 
ry} ot 
Kunsdhit " 
o ir 
. Mesha 
" ee 
Meena " 
» oo 
ty te 
af Vrishabha 
» ily 
Mesha : 
y, Mithuna 
La 


Velschika 


Mithuna 


We 


Mercury 

LJ 

il) 

it} 

oo 

Ld 

Fr 

itl * 
Yenus 


ca 


Days Sidereal Lagna Hora Drekkana Sapta- Navas Dwuda- Trim- 
time i mamsa manisa samsa samsa 
[4- 6 0 O- 0- 0 Moon Kataka Veishabba Kataoka Veischika Venus 
2il 14-10-24 I- 0- 0 i ag - vi re ” 
212 14-14-28 2-0 0 * i ne » o ” 
ie} }. 0 2-30~ 0 it) ” ” Ly - ” oe 
2r3 14-19-12 3- Q- 0 yi ve * a Dhanus » 
14-20-40 3-20- G F " * a » as 
2i¥¢ 14-23-36 ° d- 0 O ‘i ‘i ve Simha " . 
}4-2-4-5] Mi 4.([7- 8 4/7 cry " fe ot "1 Ld fe! 
24 f4-28~ 0 5=- O- O in 1 Mithunu je “a ” c 
216 tqo32-24 6- 0~ 0 ta ia Pr 7 Moakura Mercury 
14-35-20 6-40.- a a8 eh ” we 1 rt 
ale 14-36-48 7= O» 0 iv ay + Kanya it - 
[4-39-09 7-30- a " " ‘1 we ye oy 
213 faded] 12 8- 0. 0 ie Fi i rt Kumbha ” 
Tu 1-42 6/7 S407 0/7 ip is ‘i Yr ” " 
219 14-45-36 LS 0- 0 o ”» Kataka 1 ” ti 
22) 14-50 0 10+ Qu 0 "” be ” it) ” * 
22 14-$4-24 il~+ 0- 0 i Vrischika ei Tula Meena - 
222 14-58-48 {2+ 0- 0 se x te " " 7) 
I§- t= 0 {2-30- 0 ‘ rf ‘ " ” ” 
oh iy Ly a 
Mesha Jupiter a 


[$~ 2-34 2/7 2-51-25 5/7 . és 
223 ($= J-12 13- 0-0 i i Simha ie 


t5-12- 0 
15-16-24 
[5-19-20 
15-20-18 
1$-21—-25 5/7 
15-23 0 
5-25-12 
15-29-36 
15-34- 0 
15-33-26 
1540-17 1/7 
15-42-48 
$5-45- 0 
[5-47-12 
15-18-40 
15-51-36 
15-56~ 0 
15-89 84/7 
16~ 0-24 
16~ 3-26 
16- 4.48 
16- 7-0) 
1G- 9-12 
16-13-36 
16-18- 4 


17 0+ 0 
|7~ 8-34 2/7 
17-30 0 
18- 0- 0 
19- 0- 0 
20- G+ 0 
21-0 0 
21-25-42 6/7 
22- Q- 0 
92-30- 0 
23- 0- 0 
23-20- 0 
24- - 0° 
25- 0- U 
25-42-51 3/7 
26- 0- 0 
26-40- 0 
27- 040 
27-30-00 
28- 0-0 
29. 0-0 
30- 0- 0 


ry bd 

" =f, 

_ Dhunus 

o be 

Kanya , 

i 

1" ii} 

” a 

is Makara 

” n 
Tula ” 

” Ls 

” " 


a ne 
Pry Ll} 
Veischika ” 
oT 


Meena 


45 
Mithuna 


Kutaka 


e 


uu 
Kuoya 


tt 


» 


Saturn 


Ee ee ee ee 
Days Siderea! Lagna Hora Drekkans = Sapta- Nava. Dwada- Trim- 
} time masa manisa saa samsa 
| 16-18 0 0-0-0 Sun Mesha Dhanus Mesha Dhanus Mars 
h 241 16-22-2 1- 0- 0 ” "ow ” we 
42 16-26-43 2-0-0 *h ie ore ve a 
16~29- 0 2-30- 0 fry op ” oe Ed ae 
243 16-31-12 3-0-0 is ii a re Makara "” 
16-32-40 3-20~ 0 or o fy me i) a 
, Zi 16-35-36 4-0-0 ‘ - i Vrishabha . " 
16-36-51 3/7 4-17- 84/7 a " ” " ” a 
245 1640-0 5-0-0 * a Makara i - : g 
| 2460 16-44-24 6- 0-0 + - ii i. Kumbha Saturn 
16-47-20 6-40- 0 id we 4a ”» iu ar 
247 16-4898 7-0-0 aa Ph + Mithuna i. ie 
16-Si- 0 7~+30- 0 iT} rid 7 ‘Td iT) P 
248 16-§1-12 &. 0-0 ‘i ‘i ie Pe Mecog ” 
16-5$-42 6/7 8-34-17 1{/7 rT} “ ee pe ” Lie 
249 16+$7-36 J— co 0 ae oe Kumbha tid rT) u 
250 17~ a- 0 10. O- 0 oF oo ” we ww Lhd 
251 17- 6-24 H- 0-0 ee Simla ae Kataka Mesha Jupiter 7 
25217-1048 2-0-0 . #7 ‘ 6 ‘3 ” i 
[7-15- 0 12-30-- 0 oo oF oF id 7? - 
17-14-34 2j7 $2-51-25 3/7 Lr oF a te td ae 
Meena 1s Vrishabha s A 


17~15-i2 


13-00 


et rss” . -_ é = . 
Pn) tr-u-8 13- ¢— 9 be = a She 
355 17-24- oO if 6. 0 oe 7 cal - 

‘ 256 L7-28-24 {6- O- 0 Moon am ” ” 
17-31-20 16-40- 0 7 $e » ” 
a7 17-32-48 17- 0-0 ie i i Kanyut 
17-33-25 5f{7 17 8-34 of? ” on "+ +e 
17-35- 0 (7-30-- 0 i oi Mesha as 
248 {7-37-12 18- 0- 0 is rr a . 
259 17-41-36 19- O- 0 ? ae ” Li) 
260 17-d6- 0 2a O-~ 0 E 5 st Kanyon 
261 {7-50-24 21- 0-0 wi Dhanus es Thula 
17-82-17 1/7 41-25-42 af? ‘a ; " i 
262 17-54-48 22- 0- 0 a ie Vrishabha ie 
17-37- 0 22-30 ti] oF La Od 
263 17-59-12 23- O- 0 ” a " " 
18- O40 23-20- 0 a ee “ " 
264 18- 3-36 24~ O~ 0 ” ” " Verlschika 
265 {8- 8~ 0 25- 0-0 a an ” ” 
1$-ll- 3 4{7 25-42-51 3/7 Ly F in) 
266 19-12-24 26. 0-0 = oe Mithuna i 
[8-15-20 26-40- 0 ow; te ty oF 
267 18-16-48 27- 0-0 "1 is a Dhanus 
1g-19- 0 EIT 27-30- 0 Fe " “ 
268 18-21-12 28- 0- 0 iy 
269 19-25-36 29 0- 0 1) iT) 
270 18-30~- 0 30- 0- 0 a " 


el 


” 
Kutaka 


ft 
Simha 


iid 


ar 
Vrisehiks 


eee 


Days Sidereal Lagna Hora Drekkana = Sapta- Nava- Dwada- Trim- 
ing sisi mama SAntsit sarisa. 
18-J0- 0 0-0 0 Moon Makara Nataka Makara Makara Venus 
ait {§~34-12 {- O- 0 oP oo” on i) 1) ae 
272 18-38-24 2- O- 0 Ld * re Ty Loa " 
18—10-30 a-J0- 0 a " it cr 7 uy 
2730 18-42-36 3- 0- 0 a 4 Pr “ Kumbha " 
18-44- 0 3~20- a fT) on + A fe 
274 18-46-48 4-0 0 <i ‘ vs Kumbha es ” 
1d—13~ 0 4~17~ 34/7 ” " ” ” ” 
275 18-51- 0 §- 0-0 ie . Simba " ” ” & 
276 18-55-12 6- 0- 6 Pr - a rf Meena Mercury 
[$-5g- 0 6-40- 0 Tt) "W ” " ay ™ 
277 1§-§9-~24 7- 0- O on aA ‘s Means a ‘ 
19- 1-30 7-~J0- 0 ” ” ”* - om 
278 [Q- 3-36 §- 0- 0 5 7 % vi Meshit ” 
19. G 0 8-34-17 7 Pr » " ty Y] ae 
279 19— PAS 9- G- 0 a or Kanya ; vy ” ” 
280 =: 19-12- 0 10- 0- 0 7 7 1% fe i » 
i | 19-16-12 HI- 0- 0 af Vrischika ei Mesha Vrishabha ss 
282 19-20-24 12~ 0. 0 Lhd or ae if] Lhd Li) 
19-22-30 12-30- 0 rT} oF iF m 7 Fi) 


19-24 0) 
19-24-36 


& 


12-51-25 3/7 
13- 0- 0 


Lad 
Thule “er 


Mithuna, « Jupiter 


— eo 


tec 
$9-33- 0 
19-37-12 
19-40- 0 
1941-24 
19-42- 0 
19-43-30 
19-45-36 
19-49-48 
{954-0 
19-58-12 
20- 0- 0 
Ma IDS 
20-- 4-30 
20- b-36 
20- §- 0 
20-10-48 
40-15- 0 
a0-18- 0 
20+ 19-12 
90-22~ 0 
20-23-24 
20--2§~30 
20-27-36 
20-31-48 
20-36- 0 


2I- 0- 0 
2p 25—$2 6/7 
32. 0-0 
22-30- 0 
23- 0- 0 
23-20- 0 
24-0 
25- O- 0 
34-42-51 3/7 
26-0- 0 
26-40- 0 
a7- 0-0 
27-30- 0 
23- 0-0 
29. O- 0 
30- O- 0 


La) 


Kanyu 


” 


Veischikit 


i] 


gt 
Dhanus 


” 


Vrischika 


o 


rt 


Saturn 


Mars 


Daya 


—— 


301 
302 


303 


Sidercal 
time 


20-36- 0 
20-39-38 
20-43-12 
20-45- 0 
2046-13 
2048-0 
20-50-24 
20-51-25 5/7 
20.54 0 
20-57-36 
21- 0-0 
2l- 1-12 
21-0 
Zl~ 488 
2l= 6-31 3/? 
I~ 8-24 
21-12- 0 
21~15-36 
21-19-12 
21-21-09 
21-22-17 17 
21-22-48 


Logna 


ee 


a- 0- 0 
1- 0- 0 
2- 0-0 
2-30- 0 
3- 0+ 0 
3-20- 0 
4- 0- 0 
4-17- 84/7 


8-34-17 U7 
9-0-0 
10- 0~ 0 
I= 0- 0 
12- O- 0 
12-30- 0 
$2-51-25 5/7 
13- 0-0 


flora Drdkkana 


” 


Sapta- 
maunisa 


Kumbhia 


” 


Nava- 
mMamsa 


Tula 


Dwada- 
aamsa 


Kumbha 


Vrishabha 


Mithuna 


Lil 


Kataka. 


Trim- 
sanisa 


Mars 


" 
a» 


Jupiter 


08 


ry-16- 9 
21-26-24 
21-30- 0 
21~33-36 
21-36- 0 
24-37-12 
21-37-42 6/7 
21-39- 0 
21-40-48 
2-44-24 
2148-24 
21-55-36 
21-53- 8 4/7 
21-55-12 
21-57- 0 
21-5848 
22- U~ 0 
32- 2-24 
22- 6-0 
22- §~34 2/7 
22- 9-36 
22-12- 0 
22-13-12 
22-1$- 0 
22-16-48 
22-20-24 


22-24- 0 


is © 
[2-0-0 
1s 0 
16- 0+ 0 
16-40- 0 
17- 0+ 0- 
17-18-34 2/7 
17-30- 0 
1B- O- 0 
19- 0- 0 
20- 0-0 
21- 0- 0 
2-23-42 6/7 
22- 0- 0 
32-30- 0 
23-0 
23-20- 9 
4-0-0 
25~ 0- 0 
2-42-51 3/7 
26- 0- 0 
26-40- 0 
27- 0- 0 
27-30- 0 
28~ 0- 0 
23~ 0 0 
30- O- 0 


ity 


Mithuna 


Lh) 


o 


Venus 


a 


ae SSasaa 


Dwada- Trin 


Hora Drekkana Sapla- Nava- 


Days Sidereal Lagna 
time namsa mainsa musa sansa 
22-24- 0 0- 0- a Moon Kutaka Kanys Kataka Meena Venus 
331 22-27-12 {- i 0 ap ity ve ve a we 
322 22-30-24 2- O- 0 ty oy us oad ie 7 
22-32~ 0 2-30- 0 oe oy os ee tr Ld 
333 22-33-36 3- 0-0 re : ‘5 ee Mesha i 
22-34-40 3=20= 0 ee ay pt an " i. 
334 22-36-48 4- 0- 0 af uo ay Simha Lid u 
22-37-42 G/T 4-17~ 8 4/7 1 ae ” ‘4 ‘ 
335 -22-40- 0 5-0-0 a “ Tula . ‘ * é 
336 22-43-12 6-0. 0 re “ ‘ ' Vrishabhia | Mercury 
22-4 5~-20 6-10- 0 iT) ee rd ” id 7 
337 2216-24 Jn O- 0 rd " rT Kanya " 
22-48- 0 7-30- 0 és iv be sé ae a 
338 22-49-36 8-0-0 iv 8 si 5 Mithuna i 
22-51-25 5/7 8-34-17 1/7 is ie ” ” ” 1 
339 22-52-48 9- 0-0 a és Vrischika i 7 " 
M0 22-56- 0 10- 0- 0 - 
44) 22-59-}2 {i- 0-0 _ 
M2 2h 2424 12- 0-0 
23- 4-0 12-3)- 0 
23- 5- 8 4/7? 12-51-25 5/? me » ou a 7 
Dhanusy a Simha Jupiter 


23+ 5-36 f3- 0- 0 


344 
M5 
346 


347 


348 
349 
350 
35) 


334 
353 


23- 6-40 
23- 8-48 
23-12- 0 
23-15-12 
23-17-20 
33-18-24 
23~18~5) 3/7 
23-20- 0 
23-21-36 
23-24-48 
23-28- 0 
23-31-12 
23-32-34 2/7 
23-34-24 
23-36- 0 
23-37-36 
23-38-40 
23-40-48 
23-44- 0 
23-46-17 1/7 
23-47-12 
23-49-20 
23-50-24 
23-52- 0 
23-53-26 
23-56-48 


17- 0-0 
(7~ 8-34.2/7 
17-30- 0 
18- 0- 0 
19- 0- 0 
20- 0- 0 
2140+ 0 
21- 2 6/7 
73. 0- 0 
22-30- 0 
23- U- 0 
24-20- 6 
23- O- 0 
28~ O- O 
25-42-51 3/7 
26- 0-0 
26-40- 0 
27- O- 0 
27-30- 0 
28- 0- 0 
29- 0 0 
- 0- 0 


td 
Verscluka vw 

ae ™ 
Pa Kanya 
‘ Ld 

Dhanus ” 
ry La 
” rt 
Tula 
rr} ve 
Ww ii] 

Makara = Vrischika 


a 


