A Research 


OU 


Astrology and 
Timing of Marriage 
(a Scientific Approach) 


wifas sit faae aaa 
(ue aati efector ) 


a group research based on over 200 charts with 
navamsha, two dashas and transit of planets by research 
students of January 2008 batch. 


English Section Hindi Section 
Alok Verma Anuj Gupa 
Ashwini Baqaya G.K. Joshi 

B. Shobha Kalpana Sablok 


Harsh Kumar 


Sunita Sharma 
Meenakshi Priyadarshini 


Sateyandra Bisht 


Rajesh Raj Rama Gupta 
Shella Seth Rishi Kapoor 
Guidance 
Shri K.N. Rao 
art att 
st Gute Ta 


Vani Publications, Delhi 


Acknowledgements 


At the outset we thank our Guru 
Shri KN Rao. He has been the prime guiding 
force to all of us. He has not only guided us for 
this work but has encouraged and supported us 
all through. It is entirely because of his grace that 
we have been able to contribute to objectively 
applying a number of well defined parameters 
to a large number of charts and drawing out 
statistical inferences on timing of marriage. 

Our classes ’Research Jr.’ started in Jan 2008. 
Shri Rao could not take the classes for the first 
few weeks as he was not keeping good health. 
However, In the very first class he took he told 
us to do a research on 'timing of marriage’ and 
present the same in the next astrology seminar. 
We were a bit taken aback but with his 
encouragement and support we started the work. 
Three charts each were distributed to all the 
students - and later they added two/three charts 
from their own data. We all were quite happy 
with the initial results. These were consolidated, 
compiled and were presented in the seminar 
held in Chinmaya Mission Auditorium in Delhi 
on 30-03-2008. It was very well received by the 
delegates. We thank all the faculty members of 
Bhartiya Vidhya Bhawan and the fellow students 
-senlors, juniors and colleagues. This encouraged 
us a lot and we will always remain very thankful 
to them. 

In the very next class Sri KN Rao suggested 
that we should formalize our efforts in the shape 
of a book duly documenting all efforts, data and 
findings. |am sure Shane Warne must have learnt 
from Shri Rao that a new fresh ball can be given 
to a rank newcomer and on encouragement he 


would perform as seen in Rajasthan Royal Team, | 


IPL T20, 2008. We were both surprised and 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao & orfexia st su wa 


worried on the idea of writing a book. 
Documenting any research work in the form of a 
book is a challenging task. We were surprised 
because we never knew that we could do that. 
We were worried because such a thing creates a 
permanent record for future generations to 
comment upon and requires lot of efforts. At 
first we tried to argue with him about shortage 
of time etc. etc. but when we saw that he had 
firmed up his mind and there was no scope of 
any relaxation we started our efforts. Again the 
work was divided and everyone chipped in - 
some more and some less but each according to 
the time she/he had or could devote. Each one 
in our class has to be thanked for this. It is not 
possible to write all the names here as we are 42 
in the class. All the names are given in the 
appendix. However, | would fail in my duty of 
writing this acknowledgement on behalf of the 
class if | do not mention the names of Alok 
Verma, Anuj Gupta, Ashwini Baqaya, GK Joshi, 
Kalpana Sablok, Meenakshi, Rajesh Raj, Rama 
Gupta, Rishi, Satyendra Bisht, Shella Seth, 
Shobha, and Sunita in particular. Shella and 
Meenakshi have to be thanked again for 
coordinating the efforts, writIng/rewriting and 
checking/rechecking the whole work. 

Once again we thank Shri KN Rao for his 
firm and ‘No Negotiation’ attitude, 
encouragement, support, guidance and 
blessings. We thank all our faculty members at 
Bhawan for it is because of them that we have 
been able to do this work. Our special thanks are 
to Shri Manoj Pathak, Shri Naval Singh, Shri RS 
Panwar, Dr. (Mrs) SR Mishra and Shri VP Goel 
who have kindly agreed to let us quote from 
their book on conditional dashas. 


Any mistake in this book or research study | of reverence the financial support given by “the 
is entirely on account of our shortcomings and | Society for Vedic Research and Practices”, an 
we would correct them in the subsequent | organisation, fully dedicated to promote such 
editions, if only we are appraised. original research and innovative projects which 

And we do acknowledge with deep sense | reflects their preamble. 


Harsh Kumar 

on behalf of Research Jr. Class, 

January-June 2008 

Institute of Astrology, Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan 


4 Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ aniea st tou wa 


STATT 


wey Ah oa aed We ot ew Wa & ula 
FAN TH HE Wed 1 3 SAR WAS Wonsta ~S 
Zi Sea a hac ae sel ae al eon a, afag 
yd visa A sieret otk waela ot fea sre 
STG S St BAA Sw ERI Faw We fags FH TAI 
wear s1 adel at act den 4 asia 1 
ara an vier freed fret wel 

yf fed at cant wert sat 2008 F 
Te Bl red dhe 7 eh S SNM wet Bes 
een aH st va Hare wet St a vec St Han A 
Salt aan fe et ‘faare at aaa’ fasa we fad 


aa ¢ ak amet Safe Saest Ao wer 2 gal wefe, wes fae, ten As, wT a 


ae wade 4 a, dia srat vee aie weed 
ae ara west feet! Be faenet al 3 asia 
ang sik saa cad 2 43 Esher sitet wnfste 
ata @ ea art seared EU se Bea-aMe sik 
Gafead BH 30 Wea 2008 al ag faveit & fara 
fer args Fo ge abst A te fear wa set 


Te fe aa aM Wey aA F aera sik ale 
Ten wai 31 SA sate A aM asian sik at fae 
aay t waa YW, Sah sqER HH saw feed F 
Sent Ta saw fat sant Hen H art weufsal 
Tl SAIN, aia Wah sq HM saw fea F 
Sen Tan sas far eat Hear H at aeunfsat 
hl SR, aiea wan aH wal far a aad 
wale 42 wr-srrd wart wen A a1 


Stet, ser wacie, dite, wet Ts, TT wm Tat, 


aaa 1% ama ere He Sten a 
oo 
ar a waa fen, aftq an-ar feat sik 
wired A at sett aret Head Stl 

TA: GH AK Ht Hew Wa HI SMA, A TAA 
ea aq Fac a at sre fac fan ea ofa 


softer vfaffual 3 saat auet Ht gam faa) fear sit oneite visa urfesia wh fea aR AH 


wy anda faen vat B ast frat sik afees 4 
afist wa wit weatsat ea gf) saat 
wee Fy ee erat seenfed fart frre fre vA 
BAM seta wet! 

amet & Har A st wa 4 free fea fe wa 
am sea at Yet ah wT A wafer Hl Wa 
ama @ fe 2008 & angie wade F were 
waa Jy ar sorsnfet wexis fear @ vedi A a 
aot va a a wae fern en fer was Afar 
tears at at ag Ae cHeret sie at Hel aT 
aaa ¢, aed sa wel we A vicenfed fear sre 
feat at aqdum a yer & wa FY aed 
adigt ad da zt sa ae fer KA 
anatafea ot o aaife or eet va ot a aha 
at set om en fated wt a aif srt tiieat & 
fer, tn fears weer ale sam BM set lal 
we Fe een OI at alfee at fe wa aed 
ay @, car wa ot Ua Se ASK ome TW ea UH 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  Urlayfa sit Seu ta 


ast faerst at st onan sala sah area St ea 
ae pre Wot aA Ure) a HAST Ulew, st Fact fas, 
st aRUataR, Sistah) usm faar a sit at. 
Gata Fi fare wera eilfee fate ast wz 
Se srel-aret Geral A aie ct feu 

a Teh ST sqaure art A ot ht afeat w 
wg, se aH feed A ad Be ea gare em fe 
Sh ar al yaa ae 4 ‘fe aad aie 
ae ford we Yaeda’ on fase arene fet 
snfe aa sor ae daa sat aE H AlferH 
aqaur 3 aa uitisrrst a aera ta 3 at fe 
BAS Yera Fe sifted 2 


ee aa 

(SAat-3H 2008 HT Hits BY Han Ht sie B) 
Belege sith Vics, aredta fan way 

ag fees, 


Contents 


Acknowledgements ...........cccccccrsccsccrcoscsscessccccscesscsecccsccsecssccnsscscecsssseconesscssessssees D 
WIE SLE Spat: SAVATLULAT cvsssanssesecossccvscnevtven ecessen ce oeseasatedanessuaaievsvecsaszeszorsevouessneneun’ ween 5 
Chapter — | 

INCFODUCEION ...ccecscccesssacceccasscdecssnccccececscdevacaceosuadssedecsssssececssssesesasnocecoossosss ends: L 

YRAIAA icsscscssssovcssseccasbsccesccccboeesconscecscsseesscsdecesseesesssevesbnaseeesssssoseecssecesesesooseseo UA 
Chapter — 2 

Parameters — Timing of Marriage............ssccccossscssssccssssresssscovescecssscsovsceses 14 

FUT U So cscscccesssccsceccvcesccccsscssctecessosenscevesesccseseascesccsecsccsuesucecseessccderetedeccdossecsseus 18 
Chapter — 3 

Case Studies .........0cccsccssrscsrccsccccsrsscscsscsnssccscsssosssssocesoosesseccsscccsnsscocsoccoons 2 I 

gerd FISTTTT ccvacsccccdecsccdceacactecsdeccscsececssoscsebecocddcoceccesscece<coesececsoesestseuccesccsecess 2 | 
Chapter — 4 

Additional Cases .............ccssssseees aeseecadeecus Weagcubeasccecctenussescageaccosssecseaesehssooese 94 

STARR GUST STETTA oc cessssssesereee seuynasiusndens ideirinasoeiaabeeehialaiesaviise sabidinaate 1 94 
Chapter — 5 

Conditional Dasha .............scrsecscccscccssceserescescccsoesceees seccccssccceescscescccccsseccs OF 

FORRTES THT oo. .esssccecereees Seadaubeoucehdoubseaccdedensdpedautn devel ebeatiuandteasechessuctacescedes LOD 
Chapter — 6 

Observations...........ccccccccscoroccsccrcscccrccsccccscssssscscssssosscsscocsssscosscssssssoccoseeos PLS 
CONCIUSIONS .........ecccccscrsccsccscccsscccccccscrrcscccccccccccsccrcccscccccscesccssccccscccccescccscoossces FIT 


Books by Vani Publications ................ sesbecses sabaseseasasece sdvcasecatdcediaeae Siedsadssaadaseaseses 121 


6 Guide Shri K.N. Rao < aniesfa sit arp Wa 


Chapter - 1 


Introduction 


The world is said to have began with 
Brahma’s ’Manas Shrishti’ where Brahma willed 
and man came to life. This process of creation 
had two major problems. The first problem was 
that Brahma could create only ‘men’ who came 
to life, carried on chores, prayed, performed 
yagna and attalned ‘Moksha’. The second 
problem was that this process was not self 
regenerating hence, there was stagnation, 
decrease in population & ultimately back to zero 
population. Therefore, Brahma had to create men 
again and again. 

This led to the need for ‘Maithun Shrishti’, 
i.e., creation through Sex. However, Padmayoni 
Brahma is said to have been at a loss as to how 
to create a woman. He realized that he would 
need Shiva’s help to be 
able to achieve success. 


Story of 
Ardhnarishwar 
Frequent prayers of 
Brahma to the ‘all 
powerful Shiva’ were 
answered and a very 
pleased Shiva stood in 
front of him. After 
lending a very 
sympathetic ear to the 
problems of Brahma, 
Shiva took the form of 
"Ardhnarishwar’ and 
subsequently Shiva Devi 
came into being. 
Brahma prayed to her 
and put forward his 
difficulties seeking her 
grace to grant him ability 
to create a woman. On 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % uniesia st ae va 


being pleased with his prayers ‘Shiva Devi’ 
emitted a divine light from between her 
eyebrows which took the form of ‘Shakti’ which 
entered Brahma’s heart rendered him the ability 
to create women. 

‘Shiva Devi'also agreed to Brahma’s request 
to be born as Daksha’s aueer This is how 
women came into being. 


However, for ‘Maithuni Shrishti’ to be 


successfully implemented it was important for 
men and women to be attracted to each other. 
Therefore, all devatas approached Kamdev and 
Rati for help in getting Mahadev Shankar 
attracted towards Parvatl and initiating ‘Maithuni 
Shristi’. 


Story of Kamdev being 
Reduced to Ashes 
Kamdev for the sake 
of humanity agreed to 
the proposal and 
followed by the Devtas 
set out to Kailash where 
Shiva was engrossed in 
his ‘Tapasya’. After Kaam 
along with his friend 
Vasant aimed his arrow 
at Shiva, he felt attracted 
towards Parvati. This 
surprised him and he 
wondered as to what was 
the cause of this 
disturbance in his 
meditation. His probe in 
all directlons led him to 
see Kamdev on his left 
all set with his bow and 
arrow to aim at Shiva 
again. This irked Shiva so 


7 


Introduction 


much that he emitted a large ball of fire from his 
3rd eye which took a vicious form, went up to 
the sky and fell on earth setting everything on 
fire. Everyone panicked and ran ‘hither thither’ 
but to no avail. Before anyone could seek 
forgiveness Kamdev was reduced to ashes. All 
of them froze in their place and Rati fainted with 
grief. On gaining consciousness she prayed to 

Shiva and sought his grace and blessing. Shiva 

mellowed down and blessed her. He said that 

Kamdev would take human form once Vishnu 

took avatar as Sri Krishna and would be born of 

Rukmani’s womb. He would be named 

‘Pradyumn’ but till then he would enter every 

being’s heart in the form of ‘Ananda’. 

This led to the beginning of ‘creation 
through sex’ and also the entire chaos in this 
world. As everyone started to get attracted to 
each other it fed to alot of unforeseen problems. 
So in order to selfregulate the human race and 
toa maintain sanity and sanctity of Institution in 
the society, certain legal, social and moral codes 
were enforced and Manusmriti elaborates about 
these codes in detail. 

In ancient times, a human being on an 
average was said to have had a life of 100 years 
equally divided into 4 parts or 'Ashrams’ - 
Brahmcharya, Grihastha, Vanprastha and Sanyas. 
Out of these Grihastha is the ashram where a 
person gets married and produces children and 
discharges his duties towards the society. This, 
therefore, is the most important ashram from 
social point of view and hence was most keenly 
scrutinized by one and all. The Shastra lay down 
marriage as a sacred duty which entails both 
social and religious obligations. Manusmiriti 
clearly lays down certain codes pertaining to the 
marriageable age and do’s & don'ts involved in 
the institution of marriage. Some of them are: 
® = Girls should be married off only after she is 

16 years old. 

@ Women should be given responsibility of 
Money, wealth, expenditure, planning, 
religious duties, kitchen, complete 
household etc. 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


@ Women are to be respected; they are like 
*Sree Lakshmi’. 

@ Aman only gets the woman who is 
destined to be his wife so he should be 
thankful to God. 

@ Husband and wife should live together 
harmoniously duly performing their 
religious duties. 

@ They should not do anything which may 
create jill will/rift between them. 

@ =if a man has to go abroad in connection 
with his work then he should provide 
enough for this wife before leaving. 

@ The marriage is to be declared void if the 
girl is married off without disclosing facts 
(illness, cruel nature etc.). 

@ = If the woman, harboring ill will towards her 
husband, does not change her nature within 
one year should be divorced (given up) 
after forfeiting her jewellery etc. But if she 
does so because of defects with the man 
then she should not be abandoned. 

@ Girl shouid not be married off to an 
undeserving person (ura). 

@ If the father cannot marry off his daughter 
within three years of her attaining 
marriageable age, then she may find aman 
on her own. | 
However, depending on the social norms, 

customs and conventions there were a lot of 

variations in the above codes from State to State 
and even between different regions in the State. 


Types of Marriage 

In the ancient times 8 kinds of marriages 
were prevalent which were said to have evolved 
from the lower to higher stage. 

The 8 kinds of marriages are Braham, Daiva, 
Arsha, Prajapatya, Asur, Gandharva, Rakshas and 
Paishach. Of these Paishach is of the lowest order 
whereas Brahm is of the highest order. 

Mahirishi Manu further elaborates the 
various marriages suitable for different Varnas 
and pros and cons of all 8 types of marriages 
along with the types of progeny that follows due 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arfat st meu Ua 


vathere atte feare err (ua aah ghee) 


to different kinds of marriages. 

According to him for a person who is 
Brahmin, first 6 types of marriages are 
appropriate whereas for Kshatriya, Vaishya and 
Shudra only Arsha, Prajapatys, Asura and 
Gandharva are appropriate. Rakshas and Paishach 
kind of marriage is not good for any one and 
should never be indulged into. These 8 kinds of 
marriages are briefly described below — 

Brahma — This entails that the bride’s father 
respectfully invites an eligible groom along with 
his family members to his house and would have 
his daughter’s marriage solemnized according 
to religious ceremonies. He would perform what 
is referred to as ‘Kaanya Daan’ of his daughter. 

Daiva — In this form of marriage the girl's 
father would give away his daughter in marriage 
as 'Daan’ to the priest who performs the ’yagna’. 

Arsha — This form of marriage is generally 
prevalent in remote and isolated hilly areas and 
Involves girl's father accepting a few cows from 
the groom who wants to marry his daughter. 

Prajapatya — According to this type of 
marriage, the bride is given away to the groom 
along with her father’s blessings with the sole 
purpose of living together in order to produce 
children and bring them up and thus get rid of 
the debt of Prajapati, Lord Brahma. 

Asur — Marrying a girl after paying off some 
money to the parents and relatives of the girl 
and also offering jewellery and fineries to the girl 
herself is called "Asur’ marriage. 

Gandharva — Coming together of a boy 
and girl due to mutual attraction and marrying 
each other without giving any consideration to 
religious ceremonies is called ’Gandharv’ 
Marriage. 

Rakshas — Marrying a girl after abducting 
her against her wishes and the wishes of her 
parents is Rakshas Vivah. There is absolutely no 
feeling of love and attraction in this form of 
marriage. 

Paishach — In this form of marriage, which 
is regarded as the worst form, an innocent girl 
who Is sleeping, unconscious, drugged or unable 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ aries st for wa 


wera 


to protect herself is lured, kidnapped & forced 
into marriage after being molested or raped. 

Of the 8 types of marriages, Brahma and 
Gandharva are in vogue even today. Inthe former 
the parents arrange the marriage and all religious 
tituals and ceremonies are followed. The latter ts 
popularly called ‘love’ marriage, court or civil 
marriage and performed In the presence of a 
magistrate where the consent of respective 
Parents is not necessarily required. 

Whatever the type of marriage we will all 
agree that marriage was, is and will always be 
considered a major event in an individual's life. 
In western society, Christlanlty played a major 
role in holding fort for ’sacramental marriages’. 
However, after World War Il especially in 1960s 
the institution of marrlage started breaking up. 
The system of ’couples living together’ and 
producing children out of wedlock’ was rampant 
in Europe and America. Terms like ’single-mom’ 
and 'unwed mothers’ have become common in 
these countries. 

Now with the development of media and 
means of communication the world has shrunk. 
This has led to breaking down of the orthodox 
oriental societies of Asia as well. Also stress on 
education and career for women has changed 
our outlook towards the institution of marriage 
especially as far as the ’marriageable age’ is 
considered. 


Marriage Concept 

’Change is the only constant’, and hence 
the concept of marriage has also been constantly 
changing. However, all said and done, "Marriage 
is bulwark against time, for, time is the measure 
of change, and, in marriage two people .take 
vows never to change as far as their love and 
feelings for each other are concerned". Come 
what may and for ‘Maithun Shrishti’ to continue 
coming together of man and woman is a must 
and what better way could be there other than 
marriage. 

Marriage is a relationship/matrimonial 
alliance between individuals who come to regard 


9 


Introduction 


their partners as ‘Jeevan saathi’, recognized by 
the civil authority and/or bound by the religious 
beliefs of the bride and groom as participants. 

Marriage is found virtually in every society. 
The very oldest records that refer to Shaadi speak 
of it as an established custom but despite 
attempts by anthropologists to trace the origin 
of matrimony, evidence is lacking. 

Marriage marks the occasion when two soul 
mates undertake to sail married life’s torrents 


10 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


together. It is a moment of commitment, hope 
and happiness. Life is the most important gift 
that parents give to their children and then 
choosing a perfect life partner for them is the 
second. Therefore, even today marriage remains 
avery sacred and important institution of society 
and most parents who seek guidance of 
astrologers focus (after asking about education 
and career) on marriage of their children. They 
feel relieved of all duties only after their children 
are happily married and settled. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ ariet at tou wa 


SAAT 1 


Weal 


fey Tere F arn wre fee yet we sitar 
el URN Test EM Bt ag ‘AAG yee’ A Bs 
fred so ATS Seta Geol al sr fear seaha 
ot va visa AF 2 wae feand etl up at ae fe 
gan a aaa ‘yea’ a fraty fea, fret 
W-w-aa fear sik ae at ore a aa gat 
feed ae et fe ae uiean ae ois A aera aet 
atl Fah ART staat Yed-sed Gf Ww ws 
at et sk gan al TCR Sal tT wet 
usa etl 

wa aro ‘dey gfe’ aft ae vie a 
wr st ada wonret at we vet! af 
Tarai ven at ean HeqE ee Rif se frat 
Heer a Fait aon at aia om sad seh 
war fra at Ae A a feaa fea 
aia at Har 

wen a aden fra a ea far ak da 
yest erat fra 3 oe axa feu) gen at aac 
GH & ae fra 4 agave ar wT ure fear 
ak ga we 4 far tat at BT APR stati gan 
ar aren 3a tat SF aa wet sik Ta sue 
fra fe oma at afg a fae a sam Ya ca at 
Tat St Miter wt Fa erora et fear Vat 4 
amet det & ey arr sed et Sa WATaRnelt 
we ufaa at cat at sik wa 4 wey a ek A 
yfase et TEI 

cfr Fept ye & fae ae stave om fH 
Wey ait ot wa gat at ak orafiia ei gafera 
saa aa aM H Wa Ae sys HHT TT 
fe a4 nea wax al Wddt SI ak stenfia at 
afer ‘Hest git’ st wiser we at aa 
wea Al Gls st WIT 

aman ah fea & fea wrmea ve fate ct 
@ feu tan a ae ak SAH Ta Hers da wea 
wel War fra ach went oredr a am 4 
srt Tet aaa a area facet SAR ARE 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao & anlest 3st aout wa 


wt am sere fra art fra at Tae AT eM 
wit Se SR sree gan fH strat aren FA far 
Ha US Wl 2? Sita tar fra A ar det A 
at af aie Fo ae ae ort aa ar 
fase Tet ses fen foram eet F aa-He oT 
I Ml warm ae ca at wad fH aa TH 
reg FA Bl TT Get sal VI TW VS zt AT 
atx va at ofa et 7g) ater a a fa A et 
fara fea fra aro tamed + st fra at 
arat tifa atl aa fara afaa eu ok Hel fe HoT 
H Ba dH Haag Al sin (wR eed) TA 
em wa at Ho ger A war wal a as 
ait d vga F wa A Seer Gass etm Vara 
am fet ame ae We fa 4 ae fen fH sraz 
ee dat ea 8 am tae shy Why 
Fa we Fe at Hee a gfe A scufe via 
TRY eel ai Bet yeu aRt uw at at aK 
arnfad TA TW, FAH Ve Hs We MNS Ht Teak 
URE sl safer, AMA wife at sacar at Tet 
aie dam & faw ag we F afi, Afra 
a art seal a doh feenra gen sik aaa 
weet ‘aqegia’ A se WaT BG a AAer TMI 


wan area 4 ama sites at 100 ay a Ard 
eu va 4 aaa feral ais ‘ens’ A aiet vam 
ve wares, Tew, aay sk GTS wer TAT 
wy yew nan ae safe @ fread cafe face 
ara ¢ ah wast & ofa at ar fortariat a 
For F ae a wala a dt war em 21 sate 
aritss qaite dae valfee Fecrql sis AMT 
wret @1 Aqeafa 3 fears at wa vasa fastert arr 
2 feed aise a afte ade fam ed 2 
face Ft sa ak faare ett den 4 aia a 
aay oat at faa weiter al aq 4 
Bad BA Ta ze! 


Introduction 

sa a ae zt 

> wea al faa 16 at at sah ae A eT 
afew 

>» aAfenat al a war at ast feetafial J 
art afer fart oa, aofa, ad, ant, 
eft sea, wate ante et wnftre # 

> afecrant a ‘sitet’ arg EU Sr GA 
fea ara afeni 

> Bc yey al aet afeen fred tat oe F = 
a trad @, fram fae va canal a sit 
am afeq! 

> ofa a Uet at ot ast anfie frat 
al Raat aed Et asa ate a citar 
WH HU afer 

>» se Ca ae or Fat HoT afer fred SR 
ara ar a wa fat atl 

> afe onsite & fore yeu at fate ard za 
aM a Ye Sa at stevay age at 
RM HA WA alsa 

>» afe aan & feats a vec att, fea vata 
wat neal are fou we al at frase = 
a wed 21 

>» afe a aise we ad & oie ot at ofa 
H Via waa at wa adl sled 2 a sas 
SPN sme Weal HH Sa wa fea aT 
aifeal cites ae yea H aftal a ann ae 
Tal Saen Hat ¢ dt sa ga we Ael Bist OT 
WHa 

> ae al faa feet dt Hom a vet fear 
ST afew 

>» afe face ara aa a WA & 3 at ae ot 
fra wea ow faate A HC WU a sa waar 
art vay & cafea al wie cr afeul 
wt unfere fraat A arntsa fare at ant 

aM et HK V-aaa W HHT sacra EU sik 

fates staal Fae aerate wo A of fanfaa 

eam 

faare @ wart 
was are 4 8 var & faarel a Tae TT 

at Wl ait ¢ fH wast 4 faare wl via S 


12 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approoch) 


ahr @ fret O sea SR ae Star wie faare 
SH 21 ae 8 yan aw fase f ger, 2a, any, 
ware, sax, aed, dae a tera sa a tera 
al Wad freq feet FI AT wit 2 dl sel fens 
al Barat wal area 21 

neff aq 4 wa faarel ar qt faa aa Ee 
fafa ant & few soahit vert st aan & at 
ast at aftr, ait fastened ay oft art wan 2) 
SAS SAN Ta S fu wes 6 van w faa 
ofa @, at afsa, ava a yg & few a, gare, 
a 6 ted fare saa 21 ae 3 tere fees S 
fase fret & fou dtp vet otk att at aa 
aa afer! 
‘ Hl 8 yar & fae a fram ae fen wat 

Gal - sae San a faa wa WHR a aa aK 
a sah Ur wt are at gerne afta tafe 
a at wit a fare eee ‘Hen’ He 2 

aa - sa var & faa A wen a fra aa 
SA At A Hl Bim Ta ae ‘a’ ta 721 

amt - a WIT H wid feet A a 
waferd @ fray ean a frat art gat a face 
Oe S sa RA Wa dat faa HM 21 

waraea - gad worofa gan al Hal SAIS H 
fort wean ar frat aba at al at Han ae Hed 
Swe we @ fe a gays wa Et aan 
sat at sie saa) Werther atl 

ae - fae & faa Gan & uf Ht 
a san sl anys anf ta a fae F 
seta art 21 

tard - ange Wo srafia slat wa wh GH a 
yes fan feet oft dfe-fers a fateat a 
wer fae fare at ad @ ad ae wud face 
eM z1 ‘ 

tara - frat wen sit sae often at went 
am fat sant sem am frase wo UTE 
faare at Sof F ana 21 sad Wa ak ora S 
fare alg waa Fei ete 21 

tera - wad Fee aA aA ae <a faa 
Fa tal oie otal Fars, ast a orf Asa aT 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aria st a0 a4 


vette site feare ara (ua auth ghtzatr) 


were 


viet at wan A sem frat ean a sar aga ae | fears at ano 


3a fae & far asa feet zat et 

B78 WHR & face 4S srsiHa val a Ae 
Tan a et aftr ae 2 ved A ofan # gr 
faa at acer at uit ? ik ar afta seal 
STR Te GT Sta al Gt Hh aga 34 face 
wel we ¢ fran ett fant at genta at ata 
a, afar gan a gad ait wen a face F 
aud ZI 

face HI VR wt at al, oF ae tert st 
fe mR aH afer am citer a fans aera 
neat vet art ort @ att ae ort wrt 
Ufa waa 4 fas wi 4 aad aaa ae dias 
aut a ad war, cfs fed faraqa & ae 
ait GAR 1960 & ae faae Sit Sea TAT 
wml fase & faa wt ur ae wa AR aan al 
So Fel Al eae Bly a afta A da aft a 
agit ae ‘saci ai’ sik ‘faced ai’ a er 
aa Orne St eat 21 

aa Can & art A aig w aren sha 
fags we 21 cas Ferd Urn & Sieart Uae 
wars A sit erat acena sien 21 fren a heat H 
waa a ot fae & ula nfenal m aac sik 
Great faoe at ou al cant sam sfteai at 
arat ace ZI 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ariet st Sue Wa 


wel VI S Sa sacra A fer 2 gahaa 
faae at oon Ft aaa & ae arnt sacra 
eM 21 aeterd, faae wa ter sar @ fred J 
safer 3H sit west B aus A eden ad wa SH 
way ta gi ae A wa 2 fH Aga afte st ont 
wa & far FAM St yea Ht Te wet aT 
se faare atl 

faare we ta were a au @ wei amt 
afta o afi favaral am sa yea a tt 
‘Sea weit’ aaa at dan ata @ otk va We aa 
at agit St yet ara G1 faare aT Tee a 


fade & wae wa area afaey WY ast 
ward @ we ae fara cat ae at vita 
ad @1 ae ae, sag atk agit a ue ea 21 
ai-ara a sitar fae wae set dha ett 2 a 


ae Wa a at da wt foots m Gana ae 
ae cat a Se Wea Tega ait 21 


Chapter - 2 


Parameters — Timing of Marriage 


"A successful marriage depends on two 
factors: finding the right partner and being the 
right person". All stories of why and how 
marriage takes place, raises question about when 
the marriage shall take place, i.e., what are the 
Parameters for ‘timing of marriage’. 

Our Guru Shri KN Rao Sir has, after several 
years of observation and elaborate study, divided 
these parameters in two broad categories: Dasha 
and Transit. 

After checking the promise of marriage ina 
horoscope the appropriate dasha, i.e., the dasha 
which can give marriage must be arrived at. It is 
always advisable to check at least two dashas 
simultaneously to reduce margin of errors if not 
eliminate them. In our parameters we have 
considered Vimshottari dasha and Jaimini’s Chara 
Dasha. The former happens to be Nakshatra 
based and the latter Rasi based thus making it a 
comprehensive approach. 

Let us discuss the parameters: 


Group A - Dasha Based 

Parameter ! — Connection of Vimshottari 
Mahadasha (MD), Antardasha (AD) lords with 
Lagna or 7H or Lagna Lord (LL) or 7L of D1/D9 
or planets associated with them. According to 
this parameter the MD and AD lords ought to 
have PAC (Position, Aspect, Conjunction) 
connection with Lagna, Lagna Lord (LL), 7th 
house (7H), 7th Lord (7L) or the planets 
associated with them in Rashi (D1!) and 
Navamsha(D9) chart. 

As per our Guruji Shri KN Rao, the D9 must 
always be checked as it is the ’sooksham’ kundali 
of the native. 

Parameter 2— Char Antar Dasha making a 
connection with Darakarak (DK), Darakarak 


14 


Navamsha (DKN), Dara Pada (DP), Up-Pada (UP) 
lagna or 7th lord of Di or D9. As we know 
Jaimini’s Char Dasha is a rashi based dasha and 
not a nakshatra based dasha. Hence here the AD 
rashi should establish a connection by being in 
1-7 axis with DK, DKN, DP, UPL or 7L or by 
giving them Jaimini Drishti. 


Group B - Transit Based 

Parameter 3 — Jupiter’s aspects in transit 
on Vivah Saham: ‘Vivah Saham’ (VS) is a sensitive 
point in the horoscope and is arrived at by adding 
the longitudes of LL and 7L. The rashi thus arrived 
then becomes the Vivah Saham rashi. 

Itis often said that ‘someone somewhere is 
made for you’ and the day you come across that 
person you immediately feel and know that you 
have met ‘that someone’ you have been waiting 
for. Does it not sound like what our Sir refers to 
as Jupiter activating Vivah Saham in transit? 

Parameter 4 — Double Transit: The Saturn 
and Jupiter activating Lagna, 7H, LL, 7L or VS. 
The role of double transit was first revealed by 
our Sir Shri K.N. Rao in 1984. Here we refer to 
activation of these houses/lords through PAC by 
the Karmadhipati and Dharmadhipati of Kaal 
Purush, f.e., Saturn and Jupiter.. 

Parameter (Piya Milan) 5 — The 
terminology of this parameter is evidence of our 
Teacher’s advanced sense of humor and his 
excellent technique of teaching in a manner 
which makes it impossible for anyone to forget 
what he has taught. 

In this parameter we are referring to LL and 
the 7L of native making a connection in transit 
just before marriage. According to our Sir, before 
the physical meeting on earth the planets meet 
in the heaven and pave path for the meeting. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % arlasia st Powe Wa 


wifes ait fare ara (ua dari gfteato ) 


Parameter 6 — Jupiter activating natal 
Venus/Mars: According to this parameter 
transiting Jupiter activates natal Venus in male 
charts and natal Mars in female chart just before 
the marriage. 

Parameter 7 — Sun and/or most planets 
around Lagna or 7H: Our Sir pointed out the fact 
that in almost all societies during marriage 
ceremony mantras are chanted and prayers are 
read in order to invoke the Supreme Being and 
make him witness to this solemn ceremony and 
to seek His blessings. This is the reason that Sun 
and most planets (who are nothing but 
Dashavtara of Lord Vishnu) transit around Lagna 
or the 7H on the day of marriage. 

Parameter 8 — LL transiting in/near 7H or 
7L transiting in/near Lagna just before marriage. 


Observations 
O1 — Besides these parameters another 
observation which needs to be further researched 
is about the role of Moon on the day ofmarriage. 
"NR means ‘No role of Moon’ in the transit chart. 
O2 -Transiting Satum aspecting Dara Karak 
(DK): It has been observed whether just before 
marriage Saturn activates DK by aspecting it 
(Jaimini aspect) or by being in 1-7 axis from it. 
O3 — An observation made by Shri Naval 
. Singh Sir relates to PAC relationship of MD and 
AD lords with 5-11 houses/lords of D9 chart. If 
~ one of MD/AD/PD lords connects to 5-11 axis of 
D9 we have taken meeting this observation. 

The parameters given above fix/indicate 
timing of marrlage in a native’s horoscope. Vedic 
Hindu astrology, as proved again and again, isa 
Super-Science, hence these parameters though 
laid down on the basis of Vedic Astrology are 
applicable universally. 

Even as we say this, one should never forget 
the ‘Desh Kaal & Paatra’. For example in the 
chart of an orthodox Hindu girl any dasha 
indicative of child birth would also indicate time 
of marriage, but the same may not be true of a 
woman hailing from Western Society. However, 
as pointed out above these parameters have 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao *% Urea sf Seu Wa 


AITes 
been fixed after an elaborate research on 
horoscope of not only Hindus but natives from 
all over the world. The data researched 
encompasses Muslims, Christian, Russians, 
Americans etc. 

In the above parameters we have made 
use of Vimshottari Dasha and Jaimini Char Dasha. 
However, it is important to make note of the fact 
that if any special dasha is applicable to a chart 
then it must be checked as well. Use of 
conditional dasha is essential to confirm the 
readings of any general dasha. It is like taking a 
specialist opinion of an expert to confirm or 
modify the opinion of a general physician. A 
very detailed research has been conducted and 
books written on some of these dashas by our 
esteemed faculty members. Some of these books 
are: 

Dwisaptati Sama Dasha 

by Shri Manoj Pathak 

Chatursheeti Sama Dasha 

by Shri Naval Singh 

Dwadashottari Dasha 

by Shri RS Panwar & Dr. (Mrs) SR Mishra 

Shodashottari Dasha 

by Shri VP Goel 

Shasti Hayani Dasha 

by Shri VP Goel 

With their blessings and permission we 
quote a few paragraphs form their books, which 
will help. It is recommended that wherever these 
conditional dashas are applicable, readers must 
apply them on the charts to arrive at the timing 
of marriage. 

@ Dwisaptati Sama Dasha (DSS) is a 
conditional dasha applicable only to horoscopes 
where lagna lord is placed in 7th house or 7th 
lord is placed in lagna or where lagna lord is in 
lagna and 7th lord is in 7th H. Shri Pathak has 
made following observations at page 134 & 135 
of his book regarding marriage and DSS dasha. 

“Thus marriage takes place in the dasha of 
planets connected with: 

o second house/second lord in rashi and 
navamsha. 


15 


Parameters 


o — seventh house/lord of rashi and navamsha. 

o  insome cases planets aspecting fifth house 
but again getting connected to second 
house. 

© above situations in navamsha is essential. 

o planets getting connected through PAC 
with second house or second lord. 

Out of these seventeen charts, in which 
event of marriage was seen, in all 17 cases, the 
second house has played an important role in 
solemnization of marriage. This was so clearly 
evident in the birth charts and on navamsha 
charts. Add to this, a similar examInation of the 
navamsha chart and the picture is clear. As you 
would have noticed, from the table above, it Is 
these planet invariably which have given 
marriage. In two cases above, event of marriage 
has not been discussed and in one case applying 
the above principles we have foreseen marriage 
taking place soon. Thereby making it hundred 
percent in terms of percentage. Curiously this 
also explains more than one marriage involving 
the second house.” 

@ Chatursheet] Sama Dasha: This is 
applicable to all those charts in which 10th lord 
is placed in 10th house. Shri Naval Singh says in 
his book at page (page 143 & 144) “Thus 
marriage takes place in the dasha of planets 
connected with 
o Fourth house/fourth lord and seventh 

house/seventh lord in the birth chart (D-1). 
o _Lagna/lagna lord, seventh house/seventh 

lord, fifth house/fifth lord and eleventh 

house/eleventh lord In navamsha chart (D- 

9). 
© The event of marriage was examined in all 

the cases as listed above, the role of planets 
associated with fourth house/lord or 
seventh house/seventh lord in birth chart 
has been found to be dominating in 
solemnization of marriage. Similarly the 
planets connected with 1-7 and 5-11 axis 
of navamsha chart have played an important 
role in solemnization of marriage.” 

® Dwadashottari Dasha: This applies to 


16 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


those charts where Navamsha lagna is Taurus or 
Libra as mentioned by Shri R.S. Panwar & 
Dr. (Mrs)S.R. Mishra 

@ Shodashottari Dasha: This applies to 
charts which satisfy following conditions: 

o Ascendant |s in the hora of Moon and the 
birth is in the dark fortnight (Krishna Paksh) 

o Ascendant is in the Hora of Sun and birth is 
in the bright half (Shukla Paksh). 

This is a nakshatra based dasha and as may 
be seen from the above conditions it applies to 
50% of the charts and must be used by serious 
astrologers as It has maximum applicability 
among the conditional dashas according to our 
respected teacher Shri VP Goel. His book gives a 
deep insight on its method of application and 
timing of events once it is applied on the 
divisional charts. 

@ Shasti Hayani Dasha: This conditional 
dasha is applicable to horoscopes having Sun in 
Lagna irrespective of the Sign rising and is 
applicable to one chart in twelve and thus needs 
serious attention. Shri VP Goel has stated in his 
book ‘It is established that the 2nd and 10 house 
of divisional chart generated the event of the 
divisional chart in their dasha. 

Besides the above mentioned, there are 
other conditional dashas as well and many 
research students at Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan are 
pursuing their research under the able guidance 
of our faculty members. One such dasha where 
our seniors are working, is Shatabdika Dasha 
whlch is applicable if native has Vargottam lagna. 
We await their findings. ; 

This book ‘Astrology and Timing of Marriage 
(a Scientific Approach)’ is being presented after 
extensive research on 200 horoscopes under the 
guidance of our esteemed Guru Shri KN Rao. In 
the following chapters we have presented 
detailed study of 50 cases which includes high 
profile as well as common men and women 
from all over the world and all religious beliefs 
(Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Sikh etc.). After this 
we present 150 cases in the form of Charts and 
tables for ready reference to our readers. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  arfesit st aout wa 


vaifrs sit fare are (ua darfier gfeator) 


The following abbreviation have been used 
in the subsequent chapters. 


DOB...... Date of Birth 

POB ..... Place of Birth 

TOB ..... Time of Birth 

DOM.... Date of Marriage 

Vim ...... Vimshottari Dasha 

Chara .... Chara Dasha 

VS Seiesec Vivah Saham 

DK ....... Darakarak 

DKN ..... Darakarak Navamsha 

UP ....... Upapada 

DP ....... Dara Pada 

Ari ...... Aries 

Tau ..... Taurus 

Gem.... Gemini 

Can ..... Cancer 

Leo ..... Leo 

Vir ...... Virgo 

Lib ...... Libra 

Sco ..... Scorpio 

Sag ..... Sagittarius 

Cap ..... Capricorn 

Aqu .... Aquarius 

Pis ...... Pisces 

am @ sal a frafafad qe afer eet 
al Saat TH 21 

awa = al ST 

faa. - faqe aq 

alt - TIARA 

ik. CCC Ih 

oa, - STIs 

aq - eras 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ania st ate va 


Aas 
Sun Sun ......... or Su 
Mon Moon........ or Mo 
Mar.... Marrs ........ or Ma 
Mer.... Mercury...or Me 
Jup..... Jupiter ...... or ju 
Ven .... Venus ...... or Ve 
Sat ..... Saturn ...... or Sa 
Rah .... Rahu ........ or Ra 
Ket..... Ketu......... or Ke 
Phecsecce Parameter 1 
PS cacecees Parameter 8 
OP 086 Observation 1 
O38 :eeces Observation 3 
EL. csccsees Lagna Lord 
| ree Lord 
Fle cdesesees House 
Dts.cc03 Birth Chart 
D9. i. 2.008 Navamsha Chart 
2H ....... 2™* House 
VAs berreers 7* House 
St-1 0 sTHSeT 
S-9 «Fal |seit 
a 
aq Gs 
a OAT 
z 4H 
qT 
qt My 
aw OUT 
aT 
e a 

17 


TRATT 2 


qMmets 


face St Herel $a ad We Pak edt & fH 
staraet a aa fra yer fea aan @, at ae 
ft SA St Sao ArH wedi z fH faare Ha Br? 
at fae a Gra Wa SAS WS eM 2? 
SAR WS Mt Hews Ta 4 aa Bt art dead SF 
aagel at el faeqa suit A aier 8- <en atk the 

feat dt ora at ast A facts aaret 
fartyy HAH ZA AH wnat Bl Bier sa zt 
at fe face aa oA A aan 21 ae Gere ct ont 
2 fe oa a an 2 amet a yam fea oA 
afer ate ge sea a Ua a a We, afer sa 
a al fa waa Bel Sat feed <n S ay 
@ Sf ae een ar ot yarn fear 21 vec am 
aaa Te amenha ¢ at gat afew, frat eR 
TH GAN sera da St aad 2 

SR, FI AIeet Bl Tat Ae 


fasinent aeragn ait armardymrea ar we 


OT Aa Bsteral Si A/T AT ATA / ATA 


a sa Teahert Wet B were FA ANS F 
aya Ft Set carnal a feta, afte a area 
(Haa.) wary ui a sai asferat AS at 
mT feet Gah AVA A Ava a SA 
wai Had vel @ aaa a ett afer siast a 
wen ¢ fe wae |eet wt eam ta wT afer 
wife ae wie St yen Asett eet a 
aaas 2 

UA SATE Sl AS ENING, AHN 
FAT, ART, SATE she Aa A a Bscit 
H AAMT MT VAT A eT asa sat st a 
we ate oft arena een 2, safe sraden aft 
Tl eer, ese amie gq ae aaaal A a 
fat ue a afee at sft fe cet afee a 
am uf @ se 1/7 Haw ett afed 


Wye @ ter arent 
amas 3 

faate Wen Ut Treat H TS st waa /faare 
wen Asch Hus daar fre os THT 
a aan SB AT al AISA H ae sar a 
360 faut at werent ura fear wat fae Ui 
@ faare wea UR Heed 31 ae aK feral afar 
a vec yar A di ae cee dat fe 
are faa a ay a aan 21 asad: at wa aT 
ahd & fH face Wen WH gfe Strat We et Wa 
dal tea 2 
wmdes 4 

Te a wht car heat A ted SH H/T 
a weyers ut wena uf aew wat 
ata 3 et at Aen get w cet whee at 
afrariat ar fer 1984 FY aah BAA aI a 
ae ea arerged & eaifrcta a aaifrafa ahs 
wa: Te a ula at feta a cite S feet 
Est Fh Uva a Aaya wl yAtfad 
Se A Wd HE Ui Ht Ua H vect Ray AS 
waa sat a A mer on fe areredt wf sik 
Viasat we at agate fact feet site Fo at ot 
nec art sel et oat 21 
ames 5 frat fact 

at Ta ge weet a wat wa am tat 
aes a Teel wfseH STS St GPM an ae 21 
Sah ded tal ora zt fe fate 4 I Wed AT 
am ase S are ak wae A aha A ary 
wa? st Ta or eT @ fH gedt we a eet a 
fae oh 8 ved ore 4 a ae ak aaa 
al fae ah Sa ad al uel ae td Z fee 
wifsai cat A St art 21 
amas 6 

TW BS YS Sl VAtHeis Yow A At UT 
Waal ga AIS H stqaR fase HS Waa Wat HI 
TS WSt ates & St YH sth afsen saw 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ ariasfa st sue wa 


witfaw ai face waa (aH darth gfcaicr) 
al set A ane a wafaa He 

ames 7 

a a art Tet St A A AA SH TAT 
ert a ast wari 4 faa S aaa WTA a 
sigtate oe at faadt at ort 21 st da 4 asl da 
neq frat fe fare & fea dey A wa TAM 
dal SH We stat selale we Hed Z1 sa Fa 
wa a tal a waa @ fH sad w aa fea 

aie we TA aT a wa @ spa a 

état a wd g1 at st tet feta at gfe 

ee ee 
aWTas 8 

are & ae at tafe - faa & fea a 
sae Ged Yet THT aA a FT aaa a 
Qa HH set wenfa war He 21 
aim fafore Friterr 

wel a faegat a fete ar afatted ard 
ot fra wart fram orem ae oat Me feat aT 
aa! 

1, wa at after = face wm fer waif 
da afa 8 cert ae axa at afta a 
wat 3? 

2, Aan Woireat wa awa =a 
weqe fra ma @ fe fae S Ge ed 
TR &t tet ahs feet at saa Ht Ase F 
fem waraia aeere at aft ge 3 
Wifad Het SH Sea AAA TIM W eM Z1 

3, Watt A aera ar 5/11 A wal 
ondty faen saa Ft fers ait ag geal 
trae st qa fie 4 aege fea @ fe frre 
Basa fared & ver sik aacerna feet 
4 feet wo 4 cai Heel A Vaca a 
THR Maye SF Way vad 1 sae 
a 
sar Aes! ar wat aes feat wa a 

faoe & afd aaa at fruifta fear wm aaa 

a fes Shas 3 a-ak art wateam aifaa Ht 

@ ak st A ae acs fifa feu %, fae 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arigit st aor Ta 


adefira wo a setae feat oI aad zt We we 
and aaa at en, ara a Ua a wes TR 
foart aét yer uafeu sae S a WR feat 
uate feq whan et pen et ase FY sar 
Wita at wa aaa faa & aH a St PHT 
am, at fe cfeet wars at afeenat a ory zat 
et st aaesl A Hae fq asferat TW aioe 
fafa untactaat wae af afer 9 gard atk 
fates tut at af wat a aratet onfe asferat 
Ut ft oe SSI TAT 2) 

Fel haa fake a a ee Ww Ast at 
Wal Ta 2) ae feat ase wae fare a 
ard a ad sam ot se yan aaa dl aot 
afen fret st fafere een ar var aT eT 
Fant Ht ys HUH V1 Fe ctw sar a arn t VS 
ars fafacan a) were are faxlag A Aetfet 
fra orn 21 fate emad at cee aed fae 
war Hb ag feet 4 aqaur ae yeah fora 
#1 oa a WS Yes we Ver @ 

ot witst aea grt fracafa aaray 

ot aac fee grt aaa wares 

sft ama, dar aie Sil sitadt eeam, 


saat wtefa a sists mH ae sel stat 
Geral @ ae are few me a1 ea Teal at 
arnt vee faerth fir asferat we fafere cere 
art a, St We STH WaT staan et fear aT 
uaifeu cafe face at wet aafad aaa fad wel 
fgecaft war ag ( Shearer ) 

we fare am an set aster WAT 
Shit fart cas aes a at sit aad oa F al 
Rt tsw a set Yas H Tet 134 5 135 We foray 
@ - “aa: face 34 vel St am A da 2 fara 
wary 
> aft a sain Geet a fate orafiediaer a 

aa 21 
> Ui a qa Beet A aa waaay a 

Bat 21 


Parameters 

> ae ue d van wt ta eat at a oem 

afer cei ot fede ara A eras ela 21 
> fadtafedtae a had. Gare aR ae ael 

ait em A oft face a and 21 

tet am & wr at 17 asfeat wm fare 
al ot sea fen wat ok at 4 faare A gat 
aa a neal after Frag ZI 

We SaQSeH A aH a at Aa Ascit A ah 
Ta astral Ww fea qi sea At we al 
feufa ere et unt @1 oa at as aie S ara 
TegE aii fie ax faa ve ct fare vere ZI 
SHH 2 We A faare at fara fadern Aet aT 
Tg ¢ ak saa a UH A aes TTR We ae 
@ fe fans veq at eh an 2 wa we a FE 
WA-We A] Sl V1 sede BI A ae a 
Ta Was H aed UH SB ate faa at ot 
SIREN HET T1” 

Saag 

we wT at asta a ay edt @ fir 
awa a aa A ela eo oft aac fae A sat 
yee (FF 143 4 144) F fom @, “aaa 
frafafad vel at exnait # face ae slat @- 
> Wa ase 4 ageiaqda sk waves a 

wate Wel 

» FA A OVA, AVA, TART SAT 
ak wHrevereia @ wafer Wel 
am at 7g at aster 4 feats wt sea aT 
ae fen Tat ik wen en fe frre eA 
Fama ase wm agelraaeier a AaTA/aTART 
a ae Tel al fafere after ett tae we 
Fa A 1/7 4 5/11 set at fags afar ASK 
amd 21” 
Brave xy 

ae faite an va ry et @ wet Aa wT 
wa Ue wt Ural gay a Gen Fa ale WH sta 
@l ot siewee VaR @ Si( stadt wos faa 4 
aK aan we fear 21 
Wemrnt ay 

ae aM 4 Geter way att @ Tet 

> CAA aaa wt ee at ak WH HoT Va aT 


v 


20 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


a, a 
> wat a at a at ak om yaa Wa FT 
tl 

ae AAA eM 50 waa Bsferat KW AP] at 
21 at atedto Tae & aqan fare <met Aa 
wat am afuafies aera wm am wad 2, 
gafay gael war fara sal afew) SaHl Geta A 
mea of ctw t aif area af qefeat a 
Se va a ater Prag gan wat 21 
uferart ay 

ae Had Sal Hira Wa] eh set WA 
Hq a feed a, ah yaa & ana fra 
EAB R124 Bech Rae aN a aT 
aad 21 at Aedlo Ta A yew A fora @, “ae 
aq wafad a ait @ fe at asteal & feta a 
ay aa a We Del A sa faire orl a art 
em 4 at fea at a4 ani a arafaa 21” 

A wad aera Ht aS at fare aed zt 
faa oR fae sat H ae MT BA aT 
frost @ Fear A agar az SE Cl STA SH 
wena Se Se St TTA ora are STAY wR et 
any Beit 21 saw vite Gt aafaa aaa yar 
wm eT 8 te fea sem 

Te st Bout wa S Arfesia F 200 Hsferat 
WH Sqea StH Be AM Yew UT at oT tet 
21 gah ae H Bea A 50 wel a fae 
ser te fea mH 21 st 50 Sree A ad ofa 
fafire ol eg GEER ZI afrn & fafa Set 
ak fast oat O ot saat aay 21 gah ae 
sears A ard a ufo ea A 150 asfeat a 
ag ¢ af Wen ahd BT A SAH TH Bol Wa! 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ APR at aoe Ta 


vwetfre ait fare ana (var Agrhres ghzater) 


Fera ser 


Chapter - 3 


Case Studies 


Case study | 


Sirth Chart 19-68-48 08:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Analysis 

Pi MD Lord Rahu in D1 is posited in the sign 
of Venus. Rahu and Venus are marriage 
givers. ADL Saturn is posited with LL 
Mercury in D1 aspecting Lagna. PDL Venus 
is in Lagna of D1. PDL Venus is a natural 
marriage giver as well. So, the parameter is 
fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is Aries and it is in 1-7 axis 
of DK and DKN, leading to fulfilment of the 
parameter. 

Jupiter is transiting in the 7H (Pisces) 
whereas VS falls in the 5H (Capricorn) and 
no connection of Jupiter with VS can be 
established within the strict limits of this 
parameter. However, we need to remember 
that Bill and Hillary Clinton had started 
seeing each other 2 years before their 
marriage. Then, Jupiter would have been 
with VS, thus satisfying this parameter. 
Saturn is transiting in Cancer from where It 
aspects the Lagna. Jupiter Is transiting In 
Pisces, the 7H. Thus the parameter Is 
successfully met. 

LL Mercury is transiting in Lagna and 7L 
Jupiter is transiting in 7H. So, LL and 7L are 


P2 


P3 


P4 


P5 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aries sit Soup va 


Transit Mariage11.10.1975 


11.10.1975 
Ra/Sa/Ve 
Saal Ailes 


establishing a connection in transit and the 
parameter is satisfied. 

Jupiter is transiting in Pisces and from there 
it aspects the natal Venus in Geminl, leading 
to the fulfilment of this parameter. 

6 planets, including Sun, out of 9 planets 
are in and around Lagna and 7H. So, this 
parameter is fulfilled. 

LL Mercury is transiting in Lagna and 7L 
Jupiter is transiting in 7H. So, this parameter 
is not fulfilled. 

Observotions 

Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is 
transiting in Sagittarius and apparently it does 
not establish any connection with Lagna, LL, 
7H, 7L. But probe a little deeper and find that 
Sagittarius happens to be Karakamsha Lagna (KL), 
which is considered to be an alternate Lagna. 
Thus, Moon gets connected to KL. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Jupiter is posited in Libra and Saturn is transiting 
in Cancer. DK does not get the Jaimini aspect of 
Saturn. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In DY, ADL Saturn is 11L. 


P7 


21 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


se ee : an pea 


5. am 8 fer aR aI ame ay wan Fad 
aaa Te al 8S wl 21 ae wed ot Wt EE 
1. ASTRAY WE Ye Hl ule a fea 21 aa it! 6. HT A ten wr eS Oe A Gh 8 ae a 
Te a Get tare Fete aA wa ZI fio yp al gfe tax ga aes a Fra 
aR wa saree Fama qua! 7. qi wa 6 wel A wa a aw efi 
MY 81 WIR VIA Ws aA A zt UH Wat a at set Tt 
face a tafite ara 21 safe ae aes | 8. aA quan FSF, ahs Gad We Ua 
WI eaT! H 81 gate we aes sei Woh aeT ate 21 
2. Ram Farad Ay at eft free wa 4 | Prttaror 
Rae F AAA Taig fers Bi ae Aes TR asx ait after - vy A feed aK am, 
a I BaMl AA, TTT A ATA SHY AIT Ast TA TI 
3. TR aT Te aaa a (4) AZ, wah | U1 aia otet Teas Ste a ug ea He TT 
faue wen iad we (Fax) A yea 2 ok | eran a ¢ fae fH defers aa A a oe 
SO We Se HT sae BE wer et AT | 8 ee ST Fe TT 2 
1 eer BF Fe UR Te Bt Tre @ fH faa ate UF Theat wi pt qf - <r 
a feat facet A 2 ad cect A a yerad | ae gen A fees 2 oi TR OO ee BOT 
urea a ome ofl aa ae 4 fears wea wl eu se WH a Sire afte ae Se we Zl 
warfad fara ot fread ae AS YT Ba water WY WETay a atatayrrareay aT 
4. oh FR ae BU a HH ta we é | Gen/Gaae sit Wales A Ware - 
wate We a faare & waa wean A on Sh ga | aa A orcdena alt waa Taras 21 
we W set We a AGS YI Bail! 


Case study 2 
Analysis Jupiter is aspecting 7th lord Jupiter & LL 
Pi MDL Mercury is LL of D1 and 7L of D9 and Mercury. 
ADL Jupiter is 7" lord of D1 and LL of D9; | P5 LL Mercury and 7th lord Jupiter are in 1-7 
PDL Mercury is placed in 7° H of D9. This axis, therefore, Piya Milan parameter is 
parameter is fulfilled. fulfilled. 
P2 AD Pisces in Chara dasha has DK Mo init. | P6 Jupiter is aspecting natal Mars placed in 2"4 
P3 Jupiter through retrogation is aspecting VS. H. 


P4 Saturn is aspecting LL Mer(R). Whereas | P7 Planets are scattered in the horoscope. 


22 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arfesia st dieu Ta 


walfra ait fears ana (var aarfra: gfeator ) qe ser 


Birth Chart 26-10-47 20:00:00 Navamsha (spouee) Transit Marriage 11.10.1875 


EP 1: |p 2.) P34 | PS [Pe Py Ps DP libra id 
P8 This parameter is not met for this horoscope. Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn aspect 
Observations on DK. 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 7* PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/ 
H on the day of marriage. L~ ADL ___| L ADL Mercury aspects 5L Mars of D9. 


Sirth Chast 26-10-47 20:00:00 Navamsha No Transit VAs 40.1975 


ar Raa 
SKS oe va 
ae A/at 
MeRSu 8 _— : 


LS 4 Nie) 
mags al at set ah 
1. FERIA Ge SHES Sl TAM a Aa | 7. AS AGS Fa Hse W a] ael ot wi Riley 
wm Ua 8 ye Ta fo an aa a et A Te TAT aS ora ZI 
aa 81 VAR WIT qa wai w wa) 8. ae aes tt wa Aset Ww ay A ww 
aa 4 21 aa: aed foore BA Gt wan 21 ite arg a ct aa ae atk a St Ber 
2. & aad de A aes aaa Z a Rl 
3. faare den fhe Ae ok faare H aaa | fatter 
Aare at oat We A sa watad fea Ter ay wt afer - asm fare @ fea 
4. Hr uf A amet cet ake & Te A wT | ae a A oom 
ast A aaa ye ak we qa at tt ana Ut wha sift at afte - aa A 
warfare fore ara ar wa wet ae ast ay | dat ale ar aia aa feed eneRe aa a al 


al Gunfed HX WT Ware At TAT TT WT el | 
5. fare FH wa ae qu ak aes ae a water WY WeTay a ateTeyTTe wT 
waaay stat faa fae frat WAN /TAAT BT WHT / THT BF ATT - 


6. Fe tat Sta at Heel 21 watery Ane | aateaa Te Waa ane st ta WI 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ~ anfesia sf @owe wa 23 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (0 Scientific Approach) 


Case study 3 
Birth Chart 09-11-31 12:29:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage27-04-1957 


BOM 704.157 
I 


jP2> | PS.) Pa) PS. PPS. | Pr) Fs 

Pe ee ee 

Analysis its approval to marriage. 

Pt InD1i, MDLand ADL Saturnis LL. PDL Ketu | PS LL Saturn is transiting in Scorpio and 7L 
is posited in 9H and receives the tenth Moon is transiting in Pisces. Moon was in 
aspect of LL Satur. In D9, MDL and ADL Capricorn till 23° April, receiving the aspect 
Saturn is posited in 9H and there it recelves of transiting LL Saturn. So, the parameter is 
the ninth aspect of LL Jupiter. Thus, this satisfied. 
parameter gets fulfilled. P6 Jupiter is transiting in Leo and natal Venus 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Taurus and it receives is posited in Scorpio. The retrogression of 
the aspect of DP posited in Capricorn. Jupiter means that its aspect would be 
Parameter is fulfilled. effective from Cancer. Natal Venus receives 

P3__-VS falls in Cancer and although Jupiter is fifth aspect of translting Jupiter from Cancer. 
transiting in Leo, it is retrograde. So, the Parameter is met. 
aspect of Jupiter is effective from Cancer. | P7 Only 2 out of the 9 planets are transiting in/ 
This results in the fulfilment of the parameter around Lagna and 7H. So, this parameter 
that transiting Jupiter and VS should be remalns unfulfilled. 
connected. P8 Natal 7L Moon was transiting in Lagna 4-5 

P4 Saturn is the natal LL. Transiting Saturn days before the marriage and so, the 
aspects Lagna from Scorpio. This transiting parameter is satisfied. 

Saturn is retrograde and its aspect will be | Observations 

effective from Libra. So, natal LL Saturn and Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in the 
natal 7L Moon both get connected to | 3 house. 

transiting Saturn. Jupiter is translting in Leo Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


and from there it aspects natal LL Saturn. | Mercury is posited in Scorpio and Saturn is 
Considering its retrogression, transiting | transiting there. 

Jupiter becomes effective from Cancer, thus PAC of MDL/ADL with SH/L- and/or 
establishing a connection with 7H. Thus, | 11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL and ADL Saturn is 
the double transit of Saturn and Jupiter gives | 11L and aspects 11H. 


Gert - 3 (yee) aaa gfe w tar et aaa A ats od a HS 
fagerror fra TH aM Te at aay oft d1 ae HIS 
1, wHaset A nee wt <a ata @ arart @ a a aa 2 

wate TERRY hq Aa A doar A St 


24 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ariexft st Awe wa 


wife sie fare ure (cH athe gear) 


Sirth Chart 09-11-31 12:28:00 


Navamshs (spousa) 


Transit ee 957 


2. aM a aan @ gay at, fora we aa a a, qa saw iT at gfe eft 
feera arrag oft Srtaxt staran wade al| 6. fee A arate Ht Te A aH H ENR HH 
WI wea ze a wrasse F aftan fer ys w gi 
3. BH fera fae wen wT fae 4 fer We at STH Fa AIS HT TT fear 
ast gfe 2 ceca H oro ye a feta! 7. wa aT ae Se Ta he AO AS Bae 2 
frod ara oe A at at wait ae aes We €l 3a Se ae wd Gd Aet Si 
WI eet zt 8. aA Sa 4 fer Ue aA U Tod EE ea 
4. TR a Uh Gae Sa a sk awa H mes Hl oot Ht aT eI 
aro frset uit gen we WAT TAA H Sra | Frater 
wast Fare a a wa ae at] |The ag at afar - cam diet aa FI 
Warfad He Ver om Sat feafa Fae ae aA aRTaH Ut Arat eft at - ach F 
we oft sfee Sra Te OM fee A oe ae eI Te | aR qu afran FA fea & ak ae A a 
ae wa a ak aaa S arog fred wa 8 | al on wea zi 
TA a Os Sat Tt afar He TT wats W WETayT a state yr HT 
Ol sava, cea wha goa: ay let St | Wer rentiet ait Wray wenragiel & Ware - 
5. rR A ae wr aan Fe a aete | sae A aces ¢ aecua a at sfe 
aaa He A tt wear 23 ala dH Wt A | HR aR aI 
Case study 4 

Analysis posited in Taurus and ninth aspect on natal 

Pt MDL and ADL Saturn is the LL of D1. It is 7L Sun posited in Virgo. Thus double transit 
aspecting the Lagna. PDL Sun is the 7L of gives its clearance to the marriage. 

D1. The parameter is fulfilled. PS LL Saturn and 7L Sun were transiting 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Aries and it isin 1-7 axis together in Taurus till 10" June, thus leading 
with DP Libra. The parameter is met. to the fulfilment of this parameter. 

P3_ VS in Scorpio does not get connected to | P6 Jupiter transiting in Capricorn is aspecting 
Jupiter transiting in Capricorn, leaving the natal Venus posited in Virgo. This parameter 
parameter unsatisfied. is satisfied. 

P4_ Saturn is the natal LL and it is transiting in | P7 Only 2, out of 9, planets are transiting in/ 
Gemini from where it aspects the natal 7H. around Lagna/7H, and the parameter 
Jupiter is transiting in Capricorn from where remains unfulfilled. 
it casts its fifth aspect on natal LL Saturn | P8 Neither LL Saturn is transiting in 7H nor 7L 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao « ariggia sit Sette Wa 


25 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart D9 Navamnsha 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


Marriage From Lagna 


DOM [13.00.1975 | 


| P3 


Sun is transiting in Lagna. The parameter is 
not satisfied. 
Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon, transiting 
in Scorpio, has just transited over the natal Moon 
posited in Libra. Libra happens to be the DP 
also. This transiting Moon is in mutual aspect 
with 7L Sun in transit. 


DK [Ju 

DKN [Cancer 

uP [Vigo 
ees | CC 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — Till 


10* June Saturn was transiting in Taurus from 
where it cast its Jaimini aspect on DK Jupiter 
Posited in Cancer. 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


11H/L in D9 — MDL and ADL Saturn is the 5L of 
D9. It is aspecting the 11H and 11L Sun. 


Birth Chat D9 Navanisha 


Marriage From Lagna 


ee was. 17 


SS 


aera - 4 (qe) 
fagerqor 


1. Fae wi aay e ak ad acca 
a 21 ae aa at te A wi a yeRK 
ana yt aa ase a et ae 21 

2. aan AT at gH a Gen see 
aay war we 2, fe wR ae Aes ot 
aod @1 

3. Gfran A fered face Ges WARK S WE at 
aig gfe wet ug tet 21 safe, ael ae AIS 
GU Fel SAT 

4. arte gat wei the A fae We, wei a 
ama Geet S AA Wa W saat gfe 21 
Tat Sl TPR ye Gay feet Sarai TAT 


26 


wits We oa site Se WEI Bi Saat AAA gfe 
aaa Wi Ww ot 21 ga ae a let Tet a 
feat art aqafa 3 we 21 


5. facts @ Ved 10 SA ae aT wT oF BT 


ad um ara gaa A went ‘fee fiery’ at ett 
wel 2 ae al 


6. Hat FOR HL WT YS Sa eT oa aT 


asset A aan uf A fered arcs ye al 
tat 34 oR # aU Sah eT 21 


7a 9 AS Ha 2 cea sh aa a 


Tl zl 


8. 4 wt ae wi faa & aaa aa A ASK 


wi? ak a A as ei asa a ae fra 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao < upfesfa sit aout. Ta 


wife oft faere ana (ua aahie ghecitor) 


at ae GU SR TT ZI 
Fritarar 


Ger eet 


aRTansh ut treat wifi at afie — 10 FA 
ae wht gaa A on sel a ae He A Ad saa 


Treat ws cat aftenr — given A aR ax | cer Te HR Sit afte Sra wr 21 


TW V5 Ba A A ware aa ST 21 


Waist A AgTayn a@ ated ynara at 


en args Ht te a aT get fea are & | Gaderer sit wenrasr/wenrasier @ Wars — 


ara et AY Weare TT aT AT 


SITS PA Aa SI Ga S SK Gel @ UHreya 
a ware ai al tu wr 21 


Case study 5 


Analysis 

Pi MDL and ADL Jupiter is LL posited in 7H 
and Moon is aspected by 7* lord Mercury 
in D1. 

In Chara dasha AD of Aquarius is running 
which is in 1/7 axis of DK Mars. 

Jupiter is not aspecting VS (in Virgo). 
Saturn is aspecting Lagna and Jupiter is 
placed in 7" H also aspecting Lagna. 
Jupiter and Mercury met about 4 months 
back and Piya Milan took place. 


quid - 5 

fagerrar 

1. TERM F AAAI Te a et am fears 
H aahie arp UH S wa waa A ar 21 
feta sma Wad wee waa ast at 
Sea Gy a WER se wary 2) sa TE 
aed frase & sqaet zi 

2. aaa at ey ot, fred was aa A 
aaa AT eI 

3. fase Gea Sen F feud 21 wate fears S 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao % ariestt sit Row wa 


Idaho, USA 


P6 Jupiter is not aspecting natal Mars. 
P7 Most of the planets are close to 7” H. 
P8 Jupiter (LL) is In 7" H. 
Observotions 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 7* 
H on the day of marrlage. 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
aspecting DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or t tH/L 
— MDL/ADL Juplter aspects 5L Sun of D9. 


waa qe fae Fd ares gu et ata 

4. Ayr WTR AL TS a Wa Wa a A 
Ware aa Safes, dH A ARR at uf 
4 0 a caer cet met aT fast ay 
fran 

5. SS We ved ae We ak aad ga 4 
aga HY aay aaret seer A fren fae 
fran el 

6. TR Al Te Fa Aeon ww Hh WH 
Tina @ as Weary Aef TAT TT WT ZI 


27 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Birth Chart 28-07-42 18:11:00 Navamshe (spouse) 


7. fasts ® fer Wa wad 7 Te a a a 


See FI Sneath Ut Wat wit ant afte - fae feera 
8. facts AT aA ye A aA A wear a | Ser care Ae Ww A SIE at 
ares at yet frat wir at as aft site set ys wet 21 


WaTeT W WETaRT @ state yrraret wT 
Treat ag ct after - fears & fea aa | de /dader ait Whee / Terese A MRT - 


way wa A am Serres We Ht efee Aa H WA Tl We tt 
Case study 6 
Birth Chart 17-09-38 15:45:00 Navamshe (spouse) Transit Marriage21.05.1970 


Pakistan 
[pom [27.05.1970 | 
ad 
DK [Sun 
|_| ona Joana 
[pa [pa | ps [ po | 7 | Pe | Ce 
| bese LS or Trav — 


Analysis posited. The parameter is satisfied. 

Pt In D1, MDL Jupiter aspects 7L Moon from | P3_ VSis posited in Taurus and transiting Jupiter 
Aquarius. However, retrogression of Jupiter is retrograding in Libra so Jupiter is 
means that its aspect is effective from aspecting VS from Virgo leading to this 
Capricorn, which is the Lagna. Thus, MDL parameter getting fulfilled. 
establishes connection with Lagna, 7H and | P4_ Saturn is transiting in Aries and from there 
7L in D1. ADL Moon is the 7L of Di and it aspects Lagna. Jupiter's retrogression 
D9.PDL Sun aspects LL Saturn from Virgo means that Lagna receives the fifth aspect 
in D1. In D9, Sun is posited in Lagna with of Jupiter from Virgo. Thus, double transit is 
LL Saturn and aspects 7H. So, this activating Lagna. 
parameter is met. PS__LL Saturn is transiting in Aries and 7L Moon 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and DK Sun is was transiting in Libra a couple a days ago. 


28 Guide Shri K.N. Rao + aries af au Wa 


wife site faarg waa (ue darfres ghar) 


Thus, marriage was already given a green 
signal in the heavens. Parameter is satisfied. 
Jupiter is transiting in Libra and it does not 
establish any connection with natal Mars, 
which is posited in Leo. Thus, this parameter 
remains unmet. 

Only 3 out of the 9 planets are in/around 
Lagna and 7H. So, this parameter is not 
satisfied. 

7L Moon iis transiting in 11 H. So does not 
satisfy this parameter. 


& 


ol 
“ 


Tet ery 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is the 7L 
and has just come out of mutual aspect with LL 
Saturn in transit. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 
Sun is posited in Virgo and it does not receive 
the Jaimini aspect of transiting Saturn. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — ADL Moon is posited in 11H in 
D9 and it aspects 5H. 


Birth Chart 17-09-38 16:45:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Gerd - 6 


1. wa Beet F ern ze BN A war 
RAT GAA W Maat sf seat we 1 aH 
a aro fred we af aa a ae aaa at 
ft patted ae Wel 2) state aa ST 
astra F gate 31 wae cara gt S11 
Fan a og wif a te wi 2 dl aaa 4 
ae aa wit wh ae arr A fer eat Ga 
We al Be Wf) MAK as S AE aS 
yet ta 


Tam Tat A Mi aa: ae aaa ata zt fH 
faa a eat a wa aS a 21 

. Ten A Thea Hr Ter We Afee Vas Bl Eset 
A frat daa a ae ara adel wa we 21 
yoreaa Fe ANS OT] Fat BT wz 

. WA a ae @ sree Had 3 ue & fred 
ae wd at at wel Ao wt 2 

. Ae a ae fA geet UH ae B Ate 
@ a 4 ER Gar 7 ak weg Ht fe a tT 
He at z 


an 


~ 


oo 


2. aM wet A aden Hen at et wai | Prteror 


aan at fera 2 

3. guy F face wen ei Theat a Te amt gfe 
a Sa a sa GaRt Fa ANS a PO HT TI 
mm 

4.75 8 TR at wer we aa at ta ee 
Tate Gad S AO TS A HT a aA 


Treat weg cat after - arte eat aT 
Thee A arte wi a gfe wearer a WT 21. 

antante Ut wreat vift at afte - wan a 
fers eee Wa He The a a at aig Shiri 
afte wet 21 

warst A WeTayt a armada aT 


qadt afte Sra hi sa we deo abet ara | Gan dader ait wnreer waren B Urs - 


ra 
5. ae wifi as ae ok He fa ved wae 


SIT WA Aaa tT wee wa F fea 
Bat Taq Wa wl te wT 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * area st Sup wa 


29 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Case study 7 


Birth Chart 13-06-75 21:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriaga25.02.2007 


POB /Pune, 
Maharashtra 
IDOM [25.02.2007 


[Chara|LeoiCaniuib | 


DK [venus 
KN Scorpio 


Analysis 

Pi MDL Venus is a natural marriage-giver. 
Further, in Di it is posited in 7H with 7L 
Moon. ADL Jupiter, posited in Pisces, 
aspects 7H and 7L Moon in D1. Thus, a 
working relation is established between the 
MDL and ADL with 7H and 7L in D1. This 
fulfills the parameter. 


P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Cancer, which is where 
DK Venus is posited. Further, Cancer 
receives the aspect of DKN Scorpio leading 
to the fulfilment of this parameter. 

P3 VS falls in Libra and Jupiter is transiting in 


Scorpio. However, till 27" October Jupiter 
was transiting in Libra. Thus, the parameter 
of transiting Jupiter establishing a 
connection with VS gets fulfilled. 

Saturn, the natal LL, is transiting in 7H and 
there it is with natal 7L Moon and aspects 
Lagna, thus establishing connection with 
Lagna, LL, 7H and 7L. Jupiter, transiting in 
Scorpio casts its ninth aspect on 7H where 
7L Moon is posited, thus establishing 
connection with 7H and 7L. So, double 
transit is activating the relevant houses/ 


P4 


lords. 

LL Saturn is transiting in 7H and 7L Moon is 
transiting in 5H. Moon, was in Aries 2 days 
ago getting aspected by Saturn. The 
parameter will be fulfilled. 

Jupiter is transiting in Scorpio from where it 
aspects natal Venus posited in Cancer. 
Parameter is met. 

6 planets, including Sun, out of the 9 planets 
are in/around Lagna and 7H, fulfilling the 
parameter. 

LL Saturn is transiting in 7H. Parameter is 
satisfied. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in the sign of Venus, a natural marriage 
giver. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Venus is posited in Cancer, the sign where Saturn 
is transiting. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Venus is 5L and it is 
posited in 11H from where it is aspecting 5H. 
ADL Jupiter is posited in Aquarius with 1 1L Mars. 


PS 


P8 


qari - 7 

fayerrot 

L. Ferens ys Aahte frase arm 21 S-1 
qa am Ff aa aa ae 21 
SARI WS A A eleHt VICI SATA a 


30 


ware al tam 2 ae ad We at ort 21 
2 Ram A aaa Ha Hl et wet eT 
ae fea ti saw oftae fier eee 
wae ct afte sit 21 
3. faare Wes gen 42 wate We gikaH A 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ aniesit at mou Ta 


whfte ait fare waa (ua daha: gfeator) 


Birth Chart 13-08-75 21:30:60 Navamsha (spousa) 


Se 


W 21 Fa 27 Ha aH ae gaa et om | 8. Ae wh Ba a She eH Ba IRS 
4, ST Hl OPA BI TP A AAA Ta S TSR TH WR TT wl z1 

Wt We TAT sa Ht 21 gaH a ape | Foe 

Tel We 7aR sfe S aay wa sik sei fea Tire we St after - aan faareart ya 


SRR We rear wiht at gfe - TASH 
; Tl V1 wee | A eR YH He Ft wel VA was 21 
aa vay 4 21 ot fea a ay a wd warst A AeTeyt a sae yTATA wT 
ara sa UiT at ofte fra gat eft WA /TAAT sit WHAM / THAT A Aa - 
6. Gira A are ae eI Te Bet Bares F | Fe YH Fa A GAA e sik a wa a 
aa Wad yp at sie tat ga ad at afte | fer Sax oh a al Ga ET 2 TT TB 


wT ZI Ha A UHR A S aT 2 
7. Wa Wa 6 Fe AVE F TTA ZI 
Case study 8 
Birth Chart 15-08-65 20:00:00 Navamsha (epouea) Transit Marriaga25.02.2007 


POB |Ongole 
(Andhra 
Pradesh) 


Dom [25.02.2007 | 


chara|Caniteo | 
DK [duper 
KN [Gemini | 


| Pi_| P2 | 3 | Pa | Ps | pe | p7 | 8 | up [Cancer| 
Be oe er oP Gemini 
Analysis posited in Cancer alongwith 7L Sun in D1 
Pi MDL Ketu is posited in a sign of Venus with and receives the aspect of LL Saturn. In D9 
LL Saturn in D1. Besides the connection of Mercury is posited in Capricorn with 7L 
LL, the marriage giving tendency gets a Mars. PDL Saturn is the LL of Di and it is 
boost due to the fact that Venus is a natural posited in the sign of Venus, a marriage 
significator of marriage. ADL Mercury is giver. So, all the three lords MDL, ADL and 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aniesiq st teat wa 31 


Case Studies 


x 


PDL get connected to the marriage-giving 
planets, satisfying this parameter. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Leo and it receives 
the aspect of DK Jupiter posited in 
Capricorn. The parameter is satisfied. 

VS falls in Aquarius and Jupiter is transiting 
in Scorpio and there is no connection 
between VS and Jupiter. But going back in 
time, we note that Jupiter was transiting in 
Libra till 27" October and from there Jupiter 
would have aspected VS, thus fulfilling this 
parameter reasonably well. 

Satur is LL and it is transiting in Cancer 
where natal 7L Sun is posited. Jupiter is 
transiting in Scorpio and from it casts its 
ninth aspect on natal 7L Sun which is 
posited in Cancer. Thus, the parameter of 
double transit is satisfied. 


PS LL Saturn is transiting in Cancer and 7L Sun 
was transiting in Capricorn till 13" February. 
Birth Chart 16-08-85 20:00:00 Navamaha (spouse) 


airs“ SIZ 


yet - 
fageraut 


1. 


Ra 6 


8 


aq Fee ¢ ak wpe at the a are 
Ur Se wy 2 aaa qu ae A ware 
wa & area U1 sa Ue aA Vila I sf oH U1 
qa 4 ay ae aa Hh Me war F zi 
Worry wit st-1 A ae ze) ga we a 
at <aria faare 4 aes Zi 


.R aaturnia fas at 2 fire 1 na A ad 


SRIERS WS HT Gite Z1 


. aaa F Te WI Te | A fer fears Gea 


a ae ware sel a El 21 fina 27 Haze 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Thus, natal LL and natal 7L were in mutual 
aspect in transit fulfilling the parameter. 
P6 Natal Mars is posited in Cancer where it 
receives the ninth aspect of Jupiter which is 
transiting in Scorpio. The parameter is met. 

P7 7 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
in/around Lagna and 7H amply fulfilling the 
parameter. 

P8 Natal 7L Sun is transiting in Lagna and the 
parameter is satisfied. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting In Taurus, sign of natural marriage- 
giver Venus. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Cancer and DK Jupiter is 
posited in Capricorn. The two are in 1-7 axis. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL Ketu is posited in 11H in 
D9. 


Transit Martiage25.02.2007 


aH Te Gen A am sik aa Sea ea ATS al 
qa feat a 

4. BI Ba WA HH A IPR WI t Tet TCA 
aaa of fra 2) sa gi wm gitan F 
Trae We Hl Aas gfe sit V1 ga we atet 
mrat at wd yet att 21 ; 

5. TAR UP SH A WS He eI S a GAR 
wa 13 weal aH Fat A om de SY GA-aTA 
aa Fa ta RK at SR Th A 

6. Heat sine at ga Ase Fw a ATT 
oa 421 a ian 4 aR S We St Aa 
gfe fra 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & aria st ao Wa 


weitftrs atte frag ene ( tar aarfrar gftzator ) 


7. wad a7 wo ak ae 
ATG Wat FF ATS cl yt aL ZI 


Te eR 


anes ut wtar wif at afte - wax 
feet Wan ar aarne ye at wa fea aha 


8. aaa sat al aa a The ae oe ed | oo 1/7 wa Tz 


Hat ee Si 
Fret 


waist W Wea a@ atadyrna aT 
CAA /GaaeT sit UR / UAT A AT - 


Tet wg at after - frase Hf oe Us | Fea aq vag A 11d oa A fer Zi 


al um gaa yaaa fers 21 


Case study 9 


Birth Chart 31-12-65 00:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


P1 MDL Mercury is LL and ADL Satum is placed 
in Lagna of D9. Ket is placed with LL 
Mercury in D1. 

AD Aquarius is aspected by DKN. 

Jupiter is transitIng over VS in Capricorn. 
Sat(R) is aspecting lagna through retro 
aspect, Jupiter is aspecting lagna. 

Jupiter and Mer(R) are in 1/7 axis showing 
Piya Milan. 

Jupiter is transiting over natal Mars showing 


quart - 9 

fagersor 

1. Tey qt aA ¢ Wales saree Bh 
R aa We at aaa gfe 21 Sq a s 
ma Fits aa AS ae sa Ga ais at 
afte ue wet 2 aa: ae ae faareant z 

2. WM a a wan A aware wt a 
SIM BA W SII SF SHH Aa Urat 
at afte 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  anfewa st teu Wa 


[Pt | p2_[ ps [pa [eps | pe |p? [Pe | 


Russia 
(30E15’, 
—— 


hara al a che 


| FSi £2 1 23 | 
fulfilment of the parameter. 
P7 Planets are scattered therefore parameter is 
not fulfilled. 
P8 This parameter is not fulfilled. 
Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
aspectIng DK Jupiter on the day of Marriage. 
Aspect of Saturnon DK ~ Saturn is 
aspecting DK through retro aspect. 
PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 1 1H/L 
~— Saturn ADL is 11L of D9. 


3. fare wee wet A fora @ cen fears H aaa 
We HHT A et al 

4. faare @ aHa gen fem sat WATS fred oa 
a am ak way aa we sft Set wae A 
TR Ht Gal We AA haa am, afew 
aH BHAT Te at at wsrfad fear ga 
we B sea We sei oy ele ZI 

5. CAT FY TA ATA WS +t STAA-aTA Want 
fren facta ae fern 21 


33 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 31-12-65 00:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse} 


Transit Meriaga_03.07.1985 


Roti te 


6. faae H GAA Wa Te Aa FY at wel sare Fattaror 
Hine ferat 21 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Abprooch) 


Fes aap. es 


Ka SaR 


Ter ae at afte - a age Ta A et 


7. Fe Fe AS AT el Sta waif fans + | sik ear TEM seat gfe eft 


fa wi wa sa gel Aa a a 
Bee FS Ae FATT AT 


antern Ut treat wit at afte - am 
ferd TR & at wit A free sa a fro feert 


8. sa Eset A ae aes Ht ary ae a WT te | Geraci SRR Te al ystfad fram 


Girth Chart 18-06-58 14:46:00 


2 waite aaae a ae a ae A eA: 


Navamsha (spousa) 


Transit Marriaga_ 13.06.1989 


waryt A AeTay a stay aT 


aa a aa aa al yonfad set feral WAT /GAAT BT WHT / TRIAS A ATT - 
ARRAY VM AGM HT CHART a 
Case study 10 


Indiana, 

USA 
Dom |13.06.1969_ 
pK [sun 
DKN [Scorpio _| 


Analysis 


Pi 


P2 


P3 


P4 


P5 


34 


MDL Saturn is placed in 7° H of D9 and 
ADL Jupiter is 7" lord of D1 posited in Lagna 
inDi & DY. 

Vir(AD) of Chara dasha is aspected by 
DK(Sun) from Gemini. 

Jupiter has already influence VS while 
transiting through Aries. 

Saturn and Jupiter both aspecting Lagna. 
This shows fulfilment of the parameter. 
Piya Milan has taken place as LL and 7" 


lord are together. 

Jupiter is not aspecting natal Mars. 

Planets are scattered in the horoscope. 
Therefore Parameter is not applicable. 
Mercury was in 7" house around two 
months back, showing fulfilment of the 
parameter. 


Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 


lagna on the day of marriage. 


Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ aries a seu va 


watfas itt fare ana (ua aarti gheator ) 


aspecting DK. 
PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 


Fert He 
— MDL Saturn is 5L of D9 aspecting ADL Jupiter. 


Birth Chart 18-06-58 14:48:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


gerd - 10 

fagerror 

1. eres wha Aa A aa ara A fea Z, 
wafer Satay Te aaa sat aa Fz 
aa: Fa aM Ft fase at yaa Para ft 

2. See a face Ayeen Hl a een A aa 
San Sa aaa a al Us et aan aR 
wi a yet seed Sen RK AER 
wai at afte 21 

3. faares wen vy Ute Ae wafe fare & waa 
Te Fay A A) Wa ae ont eu aa fied Wa 
a ser vq uit at can 

4, fame @ WAT Gay H wart ye 4 aw 
waa we at ge fea wh wy 2 wel a 
Se ay Us STAT wl SUT! 

5. face Hh TAT AMT Fy Us TAA TS UH 
ma gay A tent fren fre Ht Al 

6. We WIS Fa HE A oy a awe 


Transit Marriage_13.06.1989 


i a 


aS 
aLeRe 


aii TER Br Te Wari AT at ae 
wa Tl 

7. ae at sa Reet A any ze et we 21 waif 
ad wa skad a afer waa 
ae & Ue él 

8. AAA S SRR TT ge amet at wet zt 
aT Tl 


Treat wey at after - fra e aA aT 
am & fer 21 

SRA Ut Tat wiht at gfe - faare a 
ara a ag A oo set @ Set are wa St 
earl 

warst WH AeTayT aA satay AT 
DAA /TAAT BT URE / TTA A ATT - 
Tat AY ner wh Cade eae sae 
Te Waa Wa Hl Ge AL We I 


Case study I 1 


Analysis 

Pi In D1, MDL Venus is receiving the third 
aspect of LL Saturn posited in a Venetian 
sign. ADL Ketu is posited with Venus in 
Cancer in D9 and Venus is a natural mariage 
giver. PDL Mars is posited Pisces in D1 and 
it aspects 7L Sun posited in Gemini. Thus, 
the parameter is fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is Capricom and it receives 
the aspect of DK Saturn posited in Taurus. 


P2 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao ¢ aria ot feup Wa 


The parameter is met. 

VS falls in Cancer and Jupiter is transiting in 
Leo. Jupiter was transiting in Cancer till 14" 
September, thus satisfying the parameter. 
Saturn is natal LL. It is transiting in Pisces 
from where it aspects natal LL (Saturn). 
Considering the retrogression of transiting 
Saturn, the Lagna and 7H also get 
connected. Jupiter is transiting in Leo, the 
natal 7H and from there it aspects Lagna. 


P3 


P4 


35 


Case Studies 


Bitth Chat 28-06-44 22:45:00 


rae] | sem [oan 


/ ei: | 2} P| P4 | es. | Pe |e | (Ps | 
= 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


[Pp [Virgo | 
ee 


Connected 


Thus, the parameter Is met. 

Transiting Saturn (natal LL) is retrograding 
in Pisces so its aspects are effective from 
Aquarius. Natal 7L Sun is transiting in 
Scorpio. Thus, transiting 7L Sun receives 
the tenth aspect of transiting LL Saturn from 
Aquarius, establishing a working 
relationship between LL and 7L in transit. 
The parameter is satisfied. 

Jupiter is transiting in Leo and natal Venus 
is posited in Cancer. As noted for Parameter 
3 above, Jupiter was transiting in Cancer till 
14 September, thus leading to the 
fulfilment of this parameter. 

P7 Only 3, out of the 9, planets are transiting 


P5 


P6 


In/around Lagna and 7H and the parameter 
remains unfulfilled. 

Neither natal LL Saturn is transiting in 7H 
nor the natal 7L Sun is transiting in Lagna, 
leaving this parameter unmet. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon Is 
transiting in its exaltation sign Taurus. This is a 
Venetian sign and Venus is a natural marriage 
giver. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK, 
the natal Saturn posited in Taurus, does not get 
connected with the transiting Saturn in Pisces. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Venus is the 11L. 


P8 


Birth Chart 28-06-41 22:46:00 Navemsha 


fageraor 

1. waTaset F Te YH WH aM wi at 
qi gfe 2 at ade aq vais Fo ae 
uf F ye S Mat) FERRIS AN 
SH Fa Az atk foe 4 feos aera 
W Gite Serax Sa AGS Ht yl at ws ZI 


36 


OSE 
NZ Po NANI 


Transt Marriage_18.11.1967 


2. aden wat a 2 fra mw gay A ad 
aera wi A sfe sree att orate 
Wer atl 

3. faate Fen aH At wal ara HI Te fee 
Odi 14 face aH He Fwd a We sa 
wary a cipfa = qe A 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao Arita Ao Wa 


wife ait faerg arr (ua aah ghzater) Jer Aer 


4. Te stent Us A S hae Hed EU IT WHal 
Uh al tan 21 seed GS SRT SA aA | 8. TR Aa at ae a aa we oe 7 at 
wae o ft wary sam fie A IR a we waa wa wR A vate aei Fe ANKE 
Te a Wa A SR BU a WH ot Sfte th oft yg vet eter 21 

5. TR hl TR UA GH H SRT BW a ot | Frttarer 
afte Fan el ti ae ata FZ Ter ws at after - aac are A are 
wafer the A ad a els at gi feed @| sea uf gua a 2 ot fH faaeont yw at uf 
ae aes yor EaT au 

6. Us a fae Fate t at UH (Ges Eset) SRTeHta Ut Trex wit at afte - wy aT 
ae Fah aa feed om 14 fan ae | were wm gay dt fre woke s wf 
aa O dt ted waa We sa ees St ye ae | (FN) at alg Sfiria ofte set 21 
aT al Water WY AgTayt a atadyata at 

7.948 dae 3 ve foo & fea oa Tae | Ge /derer sit Uarey/TaraviT BAT - 
H ATT A FT SRT FE AIS yo wet et | MATA YH Aaa HT WHATS watH SIT 

dq sah TA Az 


Case study 12 
Birth Chart 16-11-61 22:25:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_21.06,1992 


[DOM [27.06.1092 | 


[Pi [ p2 [ps3 [ pa [ps | Pe | P7 | pa | [of [02] 03] (UP |Aqa | 
oP [capi | 


Analysis P3__ VS falls in Scorpio and Jupiter is transiting in 

Pt MDL Saturn is the natal 7L and it is posited Leo. Parameter is not met. 
in 7H also, thus connecting Lagna, 7H and | P4_ Saturn is transiting in natal 7H with natal 7L 
7L. In D9, Saturn is posited in its own sign and is aspecting Lagna. Jupiter, transiting 
Capricorn and aspects the Lagna. ADL in Leo, aspects natal LL Moon posited In 
Venus is posited in its own sign Libra in D1 Aquarius. Thus, the parameter is met. _ 
and there it receives the tenth aspect of 7L | P5_ LL Moon and 7L Saturn were transiting 
Saturn. In D9 Venus is LL. PDL Ketu is together in Capricorn the previous day, thus 
posited In 7H of D1 with 7] Saturn. In D9, leading to the fulfilment of this parameter. 
Ketu is posited with 7L Mars in Virgo. Thus, | P6 Jupiter is transiting in Leo and fails to 
the parameter is fulfilled. establish any connection with natal Venus 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Gemini. In D9 it receives which is posited in Libra. This parameter is 
the aspect of 7L Mars. The parameter is not met. 
met. P7 8 planets, including Sun, are transiting in/ 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ area st Bow. wa 37 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approach) 


around Lagna and 7H, leading to the Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
fulfilment of this parameter. Satur, transiting in Capricorn, receives Jaimini 
P8 LL Moon was transiting in 7H on the | aspect of DK Sun posited in Scorpio. 
previous day. The parameter is satisfied. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
Observations 11H/L in D9 — MDL Satum is the 5L of D9 and 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon was | it isin mutual aspect with 1 1L Sun. ADL Venus is 
transiting in 7H with natal 7L the previous day & | posited in 5H. 
is now in the 8H. 


Birth Chert 16-11-61 22:25:00 


Navamshe (spouse) 


. Ferra wiht wera steHt UTA A et fea 
a1 aa A ae art A ute war 4 fer al 
at am a tea @1 aaa ye a} 7. wi 
ash 4 oe uh gr a2 ak va eK art wenfa 2 oI 
wate wits at gfe t1 ait A a a 21] 8. aH 
Wer Hy St-1 Faas A aa ahs Tat a 
HM ¢ wate aa F ae aaa ana & | Frteror 
wma 21 det <ere set fare at eatpfa = Treat wg wt after - fase a um fea 
Cz ved & aa wesc S wager WE TM 
2. HR aan fay at 21 Aan A wate ae antane W ret wi at gfe - afvap 
aot gfte tat aqafa 3 wz q ad qaenn wi wo wart doa ah at 
3. fare Gen gel afran 42 wats ara ar ae | Birt sft 2 
fae 421 ae aads Get Ya wel saCM water WH AETay a atta yraes AT 
4, TR TU ST H SAA | YS TE S Vel | Maa MeaeT ott Wray Teast A Maras - 
wae ot feet 31 fee @ SRS Te A HA | aera BA Aa aT Gat es ak Taree 
A 33 setae a as at oft tae ga | ae a afte fates 21 aera yw Te aa A 
Aras al of feat fera 21 
5. te fer ved St a TT a aT is 


38 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * artesia at aout wa 


wifae ait fare aaa (qe dah ghee) 


FER Fer 


Case study I3 


Birth Chart 07-04-54 0S:00:06 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Marriage 18.02.1980 


P2 


P3 


02 
Connected | ¥ 


Analysis 


P1 MDL Rahu, besides being an unconditional | P6 


marriage giver, is posited in the Lagna of 
D9.ADL Mercury is the 7L of D1 and in D9 
it is conjunct with Venus, another marriage 
giver and, 7L. PDL Saturn is retrograde and 
is effective from 7H in D1. Thus, this 
parameter is met. 


P2 Chara Dasha AD is Leo is in 1-7 axis with 7L 
Mercury, thus satisfying the parameter. 

P3 VS, posited in Aries, receives the ninth 
aspect of Jupiter transiting in Leo. Parameter 
is met. 

P4 Saturn is transiting in 7H and thus it is 


influencing 7H and Lagna. Further, its 
retrogression means that it is aspecting the 
natal LL Jupiter as well as natal 7L Mercury. 
Jupiter is LL and it is transiting in Leo from 
where it is aspecting the natal 7L Mercury. 
Thus, double transit is activating the 
marriage related houses and planets. 

LL Jupiter is transiting in Leo and 7L Mercury 
is transiting in Aquarius. Thus, both these 
planets are in mutual aspect, leading to the 


PS 


fulfilment of this parameter. 
Natal Venus, posited in Aries, receives the 
ninth aspect of transiting Jupiter from Leo. 
The parameter is met. 
All the nine planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna and 7H, leading to the fulfilment of 
this parameter. 
LL Jupiter is transiting near 7H and on 27* 
September, i.e. within 8 months of 
marriage, it will transit in Virgo which is the 
natal 7H. 7L Mercury Is transiting in 12H 
and on 10" April, i.e. in less than 2 months, 
it will transit in Pisces, the natal Lagna. 
However at this time the parameter is not 
met. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon —Moon is 
transiting in Lagna, influencing both Lagna and 
7H. 


P7 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Mars, posited in Sagittarius, receives the Jaimini 
aspect of Saturn which is transiting in Virgo. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


qert - 13 

Tageraut 

1. Sg eA H Aaa AWAIT WE way F 
aa Ff dar @) seery qa St-1 a ATA 
@ ok wat SF a YH SF ay so FT 
aa @1 VaR GUY wi cet t aR sa 
aR VRS HAA Aa AW Mt yaar 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * urfasfa oft ogre Wa 


11H/L in D9 — In D9, ADL Mercury is the 11L. 


a1 dt caret et arqafa 21 

2. ate fee std Ht aes qa a 1/7 
FIT V1 

3. fas A rae we we Ye A He A fee faa 
Wen We Sfe SeaaH FH ATS Hl YW fra 

4. Aas SSK we MA os aT At Waa we 
wi 21 aH WA S SMT ae aA We a 


39 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 07-04-54 05:00:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Transit Martisge_18.02.1980 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


aan | 
: 
= fre | 
ca 


fea arte] 

rai | 

8 ea 
SaR 


wate qu ay sit wena ae ter 2) Ae aT aaa We 21 ae qu ait 12d ma He 
Te fds 42 wel A ae ae at te ww 2) at 2 me 8 10 ata a a A et ae 
Fa We SB att Aq get 4 fare a wafer maes fecera ary el eta z1 

wal a ware aqet aed ettafa st Friterar 


Ra JuR Mak 


5. WAR Te Hl The fae A atk aaa qu a1 Treat ws al afte - a aa wa a 
amt 4 21 cet aa-acm 21 THER AX TET MT SHR AM St sit wenfaat HT TT 21 
6. STA Ue ay AS fre RS TE FA ane Ut Wat wiht at gfe - aq a 


gfe creat ga ATS Al Ht TOT feral 
7. Ta St Gage F aa faa H fea ait 9 | Sr afte 21 

We HST (aa) H ea-fie WAT St AT A warst YW wera a aareyiraray wT 
8. MAM TS WA Wa H Tae a 8 He H | Mandate ait Varay wav A UT - 

de 27 fore a ae San A em at fe! ade qu waa THe 21 


Case study 14 
Transit Mariage_17.04.2003 


fad Sans Ae KW Hen A we ult at 


Sith Chart 07-03-78 00:16:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


DOW [17.04.2003 | 
[chara| GemCap_| 


| Pi | p2 | p3 | p4 | PS | PG | P7 | PB || Ot | 2 | 03 |IpP virgo 


Analysis 

P{ MDL Rah is unconditional marriage giver | P4 
and ADL Jupiter & 7L Mars of D9, are in 
Rahu/Ket axis. Jupiter (ADL) is in 7° H of | P5S 
D9. months back. 


Parameter is true for this case. 

Saturn is transiting over LL Mars and Jupiter 
is aspecting Lagna. 

Piya Milan has already taken place few 


P2 AD of Capricorn is running in chara dasha | P6 
which is not aspected by DK Mars. 
P3 Jupiter is aspecting VS (Pisces) showing the | P7 


Jupiter is aspecting Venus as this horoscope 
is of male native. This parameter is fulfilled. 
Most of the planets are close to 7" H and 


40 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ aries sf Soup Ua 


witfaa ait feng aaa (ua aarfre gfeaior) Fer sey 


Moon is close to Lagna. Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is 
P8 This parameter is not fulfilled. transiting over DK Mars. 
Observations PAC of MDL/ADL WITH SH/L or 11H/L 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is | — DL Jupiter, MDL Rahu are posited with 11L 
transiting over DKN and about to enter lagna. | Sun and aspected by 5L Saturn. 


Birth ey, 07 NET 00:18:00 Navamsha vA ce) ——=sS~SCsTransit Marvinge_17 Qe? 2003 pale GLE 


mee 
Ls ARUN ZR = 


uf 8 um al gfte car fon fre fat em 

on 7. O44 Bisa 3: ve RR Aa we a Ta 
1. Sg WE UH Ft ule F amas A fer t Sau @ 

wel Tara Ana at gfe Wl ti at aay AF] 8. ae weds ga ase FT oy aT a wi, 

wan 4 a1 orders Ae Far A aa A aie ar AT Aa Ta Ga AAT YF 

fert dart faare aa A aaa 21 am &@ faa 8 Ge ved Fel STI 
2. WH aden wat Ht fara we aaRe Ane | Prete 

a ary fret saga at afte et 21 rear wg at after - whee AY WS ge 
3. faare wen Hin F feed 2 wate faore & waa | wa A eee aa H fer 21 

Tet we Yaa gfe @ sa ge far anteater Ut wheat wiht wat afte - frars + 
4. fame & WAG HH A hae HCW We A Tam | waa els es Ui A on Sel eee Ae fet 

gfe oo cer wae ge fran aft faare | 21 

& oa faa 4 on ga che oat etd wa water W WeTay a BATAVIA wT 

frsd ara 8 Ser AeA cen a St wafad | Wea deter sit Wares /waraster OB Bray - 

fern wai A Ae UE HK Ga elt wt afte 21 
5. faote & Ua A Aa Ta A cen eae | ae Ut dade af a gfe 21 ware a 

we a A al sd: Bes wa Ved Are a ag | af H ore fers 21 


Case study I5 

Analysis aspecting lagna. 
Pt MDL Jupiter is LL, ADL Moon is with 7" | P5 Piya Milan has taken place a few months 

lord Mercury and PDL Venus is Karka for ago. 

marriage. P6 Jupiter is aspecting natal Venus through 
P2 Aquarius is AD in Chara dasha which is in retro aspect. 

1/7 axis of DKN. P7 Most of the planets are close to lagna or 7" 
P3 Jupiter is aspecting VS (Aries) from Leo H. 

through 9" aspect. P8 Mercury has transited through lagna few 
P4 Saturn is aspecting 7 H where as Jupiter is days back. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao. arigett at ou Wa 44 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 05-02-54 04:45:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (0 Scientific Approoch) 
Trensit Merriege_02.02.1890 


P7 


P8 


O01 


Observotions 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting over DKN (Leo) and is with LL Jupiter. 
Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is 


x Connected 


aspecting DK Mars. 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
— PDL Venus is in 1 1L of D9 and posited with 5L 
Mars. 


Sirth Chart 05-02-64 04:45:00 
Ra Su Ve 


Navamsha (spouse) 


1, WARES ar a Te aa A aa A i 2, 
wate SMITA TRA ATT GY H AMY 
ada aa 4 fer 21 ween ys frase a 
Jaffe ora t ant aa a ge Zz) 

2. A WAM HAS AAA A TIHRH Fae ZI 

3. faare Fen AN uf A 21 frase S a Te 
fae Fa, wel @ Teh Faq gfe a fra 
FEA Hl SAMI 

4. foarte & aaa We fae A A wet a Se GaN 
efe 8 ra am ae gfe B Uae qu a 
tan Ur fase H WAG Hen UM A sat A 
Hd: SA A SAA WAH Aa al ak awl eA 
& arm frst Wa A AMT WS wl se FHA 

5. faate & BAI Te aml vt fee Fa Tats 
aT qo Ta a at: TSA aa ES 
ary fisct wa 8 qu al ge ae fren-faer 


Transit Marriage_62.02.1980 


den fee 8 4, sats sanctity Ect F 
Wa F Vi a: Ye A fred wa Ya act 


afar ae for vect aH FG STR Se a 
ames wal ye fran 
Pattarar 
Ther wy at yfrer - fate > WAT 
FSA Aa A SER Aa W Al 
ARTA Ut what wit at gfe - sean A 
TIER Rl Tel VA Siva feat ST ST 
Fine wt Mit gfe vet cre wet 21 ata Ent 
afte wer 21 
Waret W werayt a aaaeyrary ar 
Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aria st tr wa 


saife ait fararg aaa (ua aah ghzator ) FRI AERA 
one Ss ee es Seer ee er 
SRRIITY YR Weert Steet Aare & fede aa 


Case study 16 


Birth Chert 04-10-63 00:40:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_20.02.1988 


p2 | P3 | p4 [ P5 | P6 | P7 | PB 01 02 | 03 


Analysis Thus, this parameter also remains unfulfilled. 
P1 MDL Venus is a natural significator for |} P5 LL Moonin transiting in Pisces and 7L Saturn 
marriage. Further, it receives the aspect of is transiting in Sagittarius. However, the 
LL Moon and retrograde 7L Saturn in D1. previous day Moon was in Aquarius where 
In D9, Venus is posited with 7L Saturn and it received the third aspect of Saturn. Thus, 
is in mutual aspect with LL Moon. In D1, the parameter is met. 
ADL Jupiter is posited in Pisces with LL | P6 Natal Mars posited in Libra receives the 
Moon and receives the aspect of 7L Saturn. aspect of Jupiter transiting in Aries, leading 
In D9, Jupiter is posited in 7H. PDL Saturn is to the fulfilment of this parameter. 
7L of both D1 and D9 and is posited in own |} P76 planets, including Sun, out of the 9 planets 
7H. Further, in D9 Satum, posited in Leo, is are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
in mutual aspect with LL Moon. So, the parameter is satisfied. 
parameter is met. P8 LL Moon was transiting in 7H on 17" 
P2 Chara Dasha AD Sagittarius receives the February, thus satisfying this parameter. 
aspect of DK Sun posited in Virgo. Thus, | Observatians 
the parameter is fulfilled. Role of transiting Moon — Moon Is 
P3 VS, falling in Capricorn, does not get | transiting over natal Moon. 
connected to Jupiter transiting in Aries, Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
therefore, this parameter remains | Sunis posited in Virgo and it receives the Jaimini 
unsatisfied. aspect of Saturn which is transiting in Sagittarius. 
P4 Saturnis transiting in Sagittarius and Jupiter PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


is transiting in Aries. These two in transit do | 11H/L in D9 — MDL Venus is the 11L of D9. 
not establish connection with any of the | ADL Jupiter is aspecting 11H. 
natal Lagna, LL (Moon), 7H and 7L (Saturn). 


Fert - 16 Hy wate wh & ae tat a az a 
fageraut Wen sfe wey a4 wi 21 dm 4 fer 
1. FERIMTY Yo RAAT VHA F aad F THRMTAY Te A Ua S FG UE AAT 

RT Ta Ma at sit efee A we V1 Aa ai ef 1 aia 4 wa Rae aa at ot 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & arfesiq st aout Wa 43 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Rae 
2ORPORIOR ES 


2m ae ay at 2 fra w wen A ad arate ai 

aan gi a sfte erat ga wd al GT] 8. ee ee 
fran 

3. wert fers fore Gen WAR & TS (Ay A) fetter 


at ale oft vel vg or eet 21 Tree wg at yfter - whet a as 
4, ae aet TR aT fear afte at set cera | seer GS S SN aM! 
2 SRT Ut ret wiht at gfe - eR 


5. AA SS I TR ae AS at aes | a oan Ae fre way a TR oe OO at 
aq ad 1 um fe ved aan wa a A om | Sfiet gfe 21 
aa 3a uit at efte fret eft waist A Weta a aratdyraea aT 
6. Ten A fet Sree Are wR Ae A abet | Gem aertier aie Waray / Tae A MTT - 
aL Te a afte Strat Ah FERIA YH Aa SI Hae e a sare 
Te taed wa at tae 2 


Case study 17 
Birth Chert 08-08-88 21:15:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriege 03.10.1881 


[DOM [os.10.709% | 


DK [Saturn 
DKN fle | 
for] oz] 03] [ur [Pisces | 
FGonnectea | x | v_] [DP [Aries | 


| Pi | p2 | p3 | P4 | PS | Pe | P7 | Pe | 


Analysis P4 Jupiter is aspecting lagna and Saturn is 
P1 MDL Ket is being aspected by LL Mercury aspecting 7" H. 
of D9. ADL and PDL Saturn is in lagna of |} PS Piya Milan has taken place around five 
D1. months back. 
P2 AD Leo is running in Chara dasha which |} P6 Jupiter has already influenced natal Mars 
has DKN and is aspected by DK (Saturn) while transiting through Cancer. 
P3__‘Jupiter is not aspecting VS (Pisces ) P7 Most of the planets are close to 7 H. 


44 Guide Shri K.N. Rao  aricsia st aio aa 


wifes ait fang ana (ue aera: gheaio) —. Ted sea 


P8 Mars (LL) is in the 7" H. Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
Observation aspecting DK. io 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
transiting over 7° H. — Saturn (ADL & PDL) is 5L of D9. 
- See eee 
Sirth Chart 08-09-69 21:15:00 Navamsha (spouse} Transit Marriage_09.10.1991 


aA | 


aa er | 
WK KOS WN 
= 
LONG eN 


5. fame 4 BS We Ged TAT Ana a aA 
fayerrot ype 4 fen fiert at agate & at ott 
1. Fe Hy Aaa A Us S ae feed | at] 6. da we ved HH A wed a a ae A at 
adi a ame gy Ase ta tal 21 SHS was at sa asct A sear ana at 
F errs wrt aa A et feed stenx faare yan fz <t eft 
al aqafa ¢ ze 2 7. faare & fer a waa 4 oe aa a STS 
2. HR aaa fae 4 aes aaa fea di sa | 8. faare & fea aM Ana ae Ta Ft oT 
R UIERH Wl Ht afte a Friterar 
3. faats & aA fas F ISN W ye at faa Trax wy wet aftr - frares & fet aT 
wen H afte veal 21 afes 3 oe ved ae AF | aa a A om 
wed waa Hs fea fears wen we sear gfte anteea Ut Wheat wht at qfte - wat 
sre eft fread are ar wit Starts aera wit al 
4, fae F fea thet @ ae A as wT at wer | Sint afte @ pared wel ax ETI 
OTR A TS WS Ut A Sel S WA a Tatyt YW Weraymt a atarayary wr 
Ua WK sfiz creat cet The S feara | Gara werier site wenraer/ Taney B Weare - 


al omy, fram arden wit Aaa se Ta BI 
Case study 18 
Sirth Chart 31-03-65 04:56:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriege_07.07.1992 


DOM [07.07.1992 
[chara Teu/Soorpio| 
a 

DK [Jupiter | 
DKN_[Capricom | 
Pt. | P2 PSs} pa | pS: | pe | Pro PB | uP [Pisces | 
Pee ea eae ot ao oe corm ordi 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao * Aria ot Sore wa 45 


Case Studies 


Analysis 


Pl 


P2 


P3 


P4 


P5 


Birth Chart 31-03-65 04:56:00 
Ve SuMeR 


= 


2. 


46 


MDL Saturn is the LL of D1 and it is placed 
in Lagna. Saturn is the LL of D9 as weil and 
there it aspects the 7L Sun. ADL and PDL 
Rahu, a marriage giving pianet, is posited 
in the sign of Venus in D1, another marriage 
giving planet. The parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha AD is Scorpio receives the 
aspect of DKN Capricorn. Further, Scorpio 
is in 1-7 axis with DK Jupiter. So, the 
parameter is satisfied. 

VS posited in Aquarius receives the aspect 
of Jupiter transiting in Leo, thus satisfying 
the parameter. 

Saturn is the natal LL and it aspecting the 
natal 7L Sun from its transit sign Capricorn. 
Considering the retrogression, transiting 
Saturn is aspecting the Lagna as well as the 
natal LL Saturn. Jupiter is transiting in 7H 
and it aspects Lagna and natai LL Saturn 
posited in Lagna. Thus, this parameter is 
applicable. 

LL Saturn is retrograding in Capricorn in 


Trensit Marriage_07.07.1992 


NOLS VANE 


3. 


Navameha (spouse) 


wa a aa 21 a sae at ot a 2 
ak geil A ae as at tam 1 ant 4 
Te VIM WE (a ag) Uw a UR 
feera etext facre 4 warm @1 

Rm aren sian att fra w aes 
avait Fat at gfe 21 cee WS HS TY 
given 1/7 waa ot fer 2 


P7 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


transit and its aspect is effective from 
Sagittarius. Natal 7L Sun, transiting in 
Gemini, is in mutuai aspect with transiting 
Saturn, leading to the fulfilment of this 
parameter. 

Jupiter is transiting in Leo, the sign where 
natal Mars is posited. Thus, the parameter 
is met. 

Here 4 out of 9 planets are transiting In/ 
around Lagna and 7H. Thus, this parameter 
is met. 

Neither LL Saturn is transiting in 7H nor is 
7L Sun transiting in Lagna, so this parameter 
remains unfulfilled. 


Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 


transiting in Virgo, the natal 8H. 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


Jupiter, posited in Taurus, receives the Jaimini 
aspect of Saturn, transiting in Capricorn. 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Satum is posited 
with 5L Mercury. ADL Rahu is in mutual aspect 
with 11L Jupiter. 


5. 


aa | 


eu 4 feed fare wen oH fee 4 he a we 
ee ea ft oT 
wat ZI 


. TT VT Fat STR Sed Ee aT 


WR sf Set wl 3 aa SF ret fred Wa 
aa a aa wh a a ame al sit wate 
aX WU We aR A as Ta a ET? 
ar a gael a3 ae wit at afte tae 
det areat H Aas al YT AC TT ZI 

Wa MA Te A awl wh mh aR wy a 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aria st Sete va 


witfee sit feng aaa (ua defies gheator ) Fert ser 
faa at Gad & ak aa aH fae A are ae | Pretaror 


@ waa et S wea 21 Ther wg at after - a ATER SRT 
6. 78 a te fee 4 2 wei sararcia He om | At ot fH aren ae 21 

ae wd dt et att 21 anrate Ut wre wht at qfte - gay a 
7.9984 ve tee Fo vem & x fis | feos seer We The OM at Aft gfe 

wart Sips 2 Bz a 


8. Ad aa BA ae a Wak a at aT warst AW AEgTay a@ atatd eater wt 
ad a TPR OA Wa HU Fe Fam sei ar] | Wea date ait Uae / Taras A WaT - 


wel eet ZI TEMA WA aa ga HB MA V1 SRR 
TE VHT We a she way aT ws 
Case study 19 
Birth Chart 18-05-29 23:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_14.12.1955 


DOM [14.12.7085 | 


DK [vupiter | 
DKN|[Capricom 


uP [Libra 
or | 02 | 03 ||DP [virco | 


| Pi | P2 | ps | P4 | Ps | Pe | Pr? | PS 


Analysis PS_ LL Saturn and 7L Moon were transiting 
Pi MDL and ADL Moon is the 7L of D1 and it together in Scorpio a few days ago, thus 
receives the aspect of LL Saturn which, fulfilling this parameter. 
being retrograde, is effective from Scorpio. | P6 Natal Venus, posited in Pisces, received 
In D9, Moon receives the aspect of LL Satum Jupiter’s ninth aspect when Jupiter was 
as well as 7L Sun. PDL Mercury which is transiting in Cancer tlll September end, thus 
retrograde is posited in Taurus in D1 and it satisfying this parameter. 
receives the aspect of LL Saturn. In D9, | P7 4 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Mercury is posited in 7H. The parameter is Lagna and 7H. Thus, this parameter is 
satisfied. satisfactorily met. 
P2 Chara Dasha AD rashi Scorpio is in 1-7 axis | P8. _7L Moon will transit in Lagna in a couple of 
with DK Jupiter and is aspected by Capricorn days, leading to the fulfilment of this 
— the DKN. So, this parameter is met. parameter. However at this time the 
P3 VS in Aries receives the ninth aspect of parameter is not met. 
transiting Jupiter from Leo, leading to the | Observatians 
fulfilment of thls parameter. Role of transiting Moon — Moon, which is 
P4_ The transiting Saturn is aspecting the Lagna. | the 7L, is transiting over natal LL. 
Jupiter is transiting in Leo from where it Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
aspects the natal LL Saturn. Thus, the | Saturn Is transiting in Scorpio and DK Jupiter is 
parameter is fulfilled. posited in Taurus. These two are in 1-7 axis. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % aren at eure Ta 47 


Case Studies 


PAC of MDL/ADL with SH/L and/or 


11H/L in D9 —In DY, MDL and ADL Moon is in 


Birth Chart 16-05-28 23:00:00 


E 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


| mutual aspect with 11L Jupiter. 


Navamsha (spouse) 
SeR 


- 19 


i 


Transit Merriege_14.12.1958 


pial 


6. Tea ate at Ase ar yH a a feud 2? 


fora ux faarar sit dee He A ted WA TS 


1. Fel F ARMAGH AT HScit Ht AAA gfee ereit eft 
2 ak va Rae a at amas SF ore) 7.9 84 The aS oe a & afi ZI 
fe ¢1 aaa Aaa al ae A A aeTa| 8. ved A aA aR HT RR rH A eA TPT 
aa at at sit gfe ura 21 gay Ff fer 2, Ofer fear tt ae ore ary ae a 


TR wy qe eS a 3 at aT VA TI él 
(amt) at sfte ot 21 aa A aa oa A 
feoa dat qu ot face &t aqafa 3 wr 21 Tree we at Th a Wa 


2. Mad given at ¢ fae aan A aeRs| waraSct S aad aT H a a a IPR WI 
Teo at Sa W AHH Aa Tee HT she | 21 
at 2 arrentts Ut that vit at afte - gaa 
3. AW feera faare en Ut fee A aha He Te | feet eRaH WS a aa afkan A are a ah 
al edtafa sft 21 ra 
4. TR & wits at afte aa ae 2 Te Te aT warst A Agta a atateyraest aT 
gfe ame UK TAA /TAAT BC TRAM / THAT V AAT - 
5. WaT UA a ae aK AS fest Vest St UH | ASM A SAT VM Ware YS A WEN gfe 
ma giran A ted waa ga ad woo at | fafa ae a 21 - 


Case study 20 

Analysis with LL Saturn. Thus, the parameter is 

P1 MDL Mercury is posited in Virgo in D1 and satisfied. ; 
there it is in mutual aspect with not only 7L | P2. Chara Dasha ADis Aries and it is in 1-7 axis 
Moon but also LL Saturn (considering with DK Sun. Further, DKN and DP posited 
Saturn’s retrogression). In D9, Mercury is in Scorpio aspect Aries, leading to the 
the 7L. ADL Satum is the LL of D1 and fulfilment of this parameter. 
being retrograde, it is effective from Pisces | P3_ VS is in Pisces and Jupiter is transiting in 
where 7L Moon is posited. In D9 Saturn is Libra. Till 12" October Jupiter was transiting 
posited with 7L Mercury. PDL Moon is the in Virgo and from there it was aspecting 
7L of D1 and, as mentioned, it is connected VS. The parameter is met. 

48 Guide Shri K.N. Rao + arigeit oft Sou wa 


satfire sit free are (ta dari gheaicr ) a ae 


Birth Chart 23-10-69 13:22:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Mariage 09.12.1993 


Dow |oo.12.1006 | 


Re Me Ve 
Su Ma 


DK [Sun | 
[DKN [Scorpio __| 
[Pi | p2 | pa | pa | PS | PO | P7 | PS | lup__|Gemini__| 
pp [Scorpio | 
P4 Saturn, transiting in Aquarius, and Jupiter, and 7H leaving this parameter unmet. 
transiting in Libra, are aspecting natal LL | P8 7L Moonis posited in 10 H. Parameter not 
Saturn posited in Aries. Thus, this parameter met. 
is satisfied. Observations 
P5 LL Saturn is transiting in Aquarius and 7L Role of transiting Moon — Moon, transiting 


Moon is transiting in Libra. 4-5 days earlier | in Libra, is in mutual aspect with the natal LL 

Moon, transiting in Leo, was in mutual | Saturn. 

aspect with Saturn, thus fulfilling this Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK— DK 

parameter. Sun is posited in Libra and it receives the Jaimini 
P6 Till 12" October Jupiter was transiting in | aspect of Saturn which is transitIng in Aquarius. 

Virgo where natal Venus is posited, thus PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 

satisfying the parameter. 11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Mercury and ADL 
P7 Only 1 planetis transiting in/around Lagna | Saturn are posited in 5H. Saturn is the 11L. 


Birth Chart 23-10-69 13:22:00 Navamsha (spousa) 


KAAS xOK 


Tavera 2. aan Ae ste fered wea F cee 
L. wer 8 fer Fes et Raa aT wi @) givae 8 cee 9 ees Fae a 
a oe ofa cat at gfe 21 aan AY ga waa H SR AG WR saat Sit gfe it 2 
wee 2) sara wf S-1 Hr aa | 3. fags wen ae Ae wate Ae a tae gen 
ak aac ERT ga ate a ot ta wad g 1 12 saat dH HAN A ted Was TE A wes 

wel aa aa fea U1 Fale A ah aaa WH Site Sere set tare ST att 
qo hw 3) We TT aa | 4. Te A oh ee A ook ae gen A owed a 
Soh Hl AAA sat TAN MA S wafad ae A fer Sarees MP oe gfte Srerat 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ aries Seer Ta 49 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 

det wee ai at get 2 eS ZI ‘Frtteror 

5. 5 fe tect wa ae aa fee A om Ta ae Trae wg at aftreat - gen A Wee Ht TT 
Ha A Te He A Ohl Sa -ae T | aaT oeri Oe UT HR gfe Sa TET ZI 


ak sa aes cl IST He TET AT areata ut trae wit at afie - gan 
6. Sed 12 Aa Th HA A TS AT AA aT Set | fers STE TE RY SER GR UA 
wRrareia yp fer 21 al sft gfe 21 
7. waaay & e-fig Hoe uw ue @ fad wast WY wera a aradyrara aI 
ae AIS YT et eam WAN /GAAT siht WHIa/ THAT A MTT - 
8. Ura aa saa a He fered mass WM | at eet qu a eA Fae A am a A aS a 
wet eet Vit Aa HT THT ZI 
Case study 21 
Birth Chart 19-01-39 12:30:00 Nevamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_27.05.1956 


ow [7.05 56 
= 
cara[sonvas | 


IDK [Mars | 
]DKN [Cancer _| 
up |Capri_ | 
joP {Sagi 


| Pi | p2 | p3 | pa | Ps | Pe | P7 | Pe | 


Analysis and natal 7L posited in Scorpio. Thus, 
Pt MD Lord Moon is the LL of D9. AD and PD Double Transit of Saturn and Jupiter activates 
‘Lord Jupiter receives the aspect of LL of D1 both - LL and 7L. 
Mars in D1. This marriage-giving propensity | P5 At the time of marriage, LL Mars is transiting 
of Jupiter gets strengthened by Jupiter being in Aquarius and 7L Venus is transiting in 
in mutual exchange with 7L (Saturn) in D9. Gemini. However, In the last week of 
Parameter is fulfilled. February 1956, Venus was transiting in 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and it receives the Pisces where it was receiving the fourth 
aspect of Dara Pada, which is in Sagittarius. aspect of Mars, which was transiting in 
Parameter is satisfied. Sagittarius. Thus, a working relationship is 
P3 Jupiter is transiting in Leo whereas VS falls established between the LL and 7L in transit. 
in Gemini. Thus transiting Jupiter has no } P6 jupiter is transiting in Leo but till 22°" May 
connection with VS and the parameter Jupiter was transiting in Cancer and both - 
remains unfulfilled. natal Mars and natal Venus — are posited in 
P4_ Saturn is transiting in Scorpio and there it is Scorpio and would have received the aspect 
conjoint with natal LL (Mars) and natal 7L of transiting Jupiter. So, the parameter is 
(Venus). Jupiter is transiting in Leo and from fulfilled without considering the sex of the 
there it aspects only Lagna. However, native. 
Jupiter has just entered Leo, till 22." May | P7 5 planets, including Sun, out of 9 planets 
Jupiter was transiting in Cancer and from are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. So, 
there it would have aspected both natal LL this parameter is fulfilled. 


50 Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ anfexfa st fom Wa 


watfirr sit fears ama (ua dah ghar) 


P8 LL Mars is transiting in Aquarius and is not 
in or around 7H. 7L Venus is transiting in 
Gemini and is not in or around Lagna. So, 
this parameter is not met. 

Observations 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 

transiting in Sagittarius. It is aspecting 7L Venus 

which is transiting in Gemini. Further, Moon has 
just come out of RK Axis. 


Birth Chart 19-01-39 12:30:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


1. TIA SRM Aa Hr aM F sat a 


TR IY Te KR wR S aT 
Hina Hi gfe 31 aig A ye a wae wh a 
WR Fae CI 

2. we 4 arden ¢ He wt, fra w aq at 
afte ¢ wet fe <rrae feed 21 


FER Fer 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Scorpio where DK Mars is 
posited. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Moon is being 
aspected by 5L Mars. ADL Jupiter is placed in 
7H where it is mutual aspect with 5L Mars. Jupiter 
aspects 11H. 


Ko 
be 


Set ata vite He ot at, Te A wot aeafa 
att 


a 

5s ao ae & ee fd FI 
: a ae Ara a AeA ws aR 
aan a Ae tt fee A eS ar ae 
we aa a QU ae as PH ae ea 


3. faars Gen fays Ae wafe what ar ae fae | Protect 


Hdl a SR ae wads UT Ae eld 2 


4. uit given a eR at wea t wel Sac 
are ata a wate yp fer 2 fae a 


TE SL WS We Hl gfe Fact aA WH ZI 
cfs era A fee A oe ye 4 22 WES aH HH 
Fed SAT AM a ATA Stal WL ASR STeit 
ot sa we a clea Thee ard awe TEI ZI 

5. faa H WA aM Ae BM A a ae 
ae fre 4 on teh fafa A ad ae weary 


mel aaa 21 dia wat 1956 F sitar 


are FH A ted Ge Ue al Ane St 
aga gfte fret wet oh ane ae ay A a 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao @ arias sf Sou wa 


Wert Ug cat YPTeAt - GAT HT AR ay A 
@ wt fH fae A aeR ar aa YH at ta 


wl el aa a-ae U-hg F wa SF TR 


are BI 
arene ot thar wiht at afte - wht a 
The gia At set cree Ae fers #1 


water W weTay a stad yrarer wT 


TAA /TAAT sit WHS / THAT A AT - 


Gen fered ASIA SSH HR TAA Ate BT site 


tl ae aan a tat ware a A ta 2 al 


Ga Ana H aa saat gfe fata sft 21 


51 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Case study 22 
Birth Chart 05-04-88 09:25:00 Navamaha (epouse) Transit Merriage_22.5.1989 
POB |Bhagalpur 
t= f= f= | f=) 
Dom |22.05.1989 | 
ae ee ee 
pe 
DK |Verus_| 
DKN [Cancer _| 
juP_lares | 


[Pi [pe [ pa [ pa | 5 | Po | Pr | Pe | 
per 


Analysis of November 1988 when Venus was 
Pi MDL Jupiter is posited in Leo in D1. Its transiting in Virgo and Mars was transiting 
retrogression means that it is effective from in Pisces. Thus, the parameter is satisfied 
Cancer from where it is in mutual aspect reasonably well. 
with 7L Mars. Jupiter is the 7L of DD. ADL | P6 In the third week of January transiting Jupiter 
Venus is the LL of DI and it is a significator was retrograde in Taurus and therefore it 
of marriage. PDL Rahu, besides being a was effective from Aries where natal Mars 
natural marriage giver, is conjunct with the is posited. The parameter is fulfilled. 
LL Venus. In D9 Rahu is being aspected by | P77 planets, including Sun, are transiting in/ 
LL Mercury. Thus, this parameter is around Lagna and 7H, attesting to the 
applicable. satisfaction of this parameter. 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is Aries, the sign of UP, | P8_ LL Mars was transiting in Taurus, the natal 
leading to the fulfilment of this parameter. Lagna, in the mid of April, leading to the 
P3 Jupiter, transiting in Taurus fails to connect fulfilment of this parameter. 
to VS falling in Pisces. This parameter is not | Observotions 
met. Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
P4_ Transiting Saturn is retrograde in Sagittarius. | transiting in the 7H. 
It affects the natal Lagna and 7H since it is Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK -Satum 


effective from Scorpio. Jupiter is transiting | is transiting in Sagittarius. DK Venus, posited in 

in Taurus, the natal Lagna, and thus it | Pisces, receives the Jaimini aspect of transiting 

aspects 7H. Double transit approves the | Saturn. 

marriage. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
PS Natal LL Venus is transiting in Taurus and | 1 1H/L in D9 — In D9, ADL Venus is posited in 

natal 7L Mars is transiting in Gemini. These | 11H where it is in mutual aspect with both — 5L 

two were in mutual aspect in the third week | Saturn and 11L Moon. 


Gel -22 Fag 81 RR TITY WE Fa A 
fagerrar as Baa 2 at aaa A aa oe at sa 
1. Fee We oH Geet A fie 43 sh oat gfe 21 ga we 8 ae da We ae oT a 

SA h AM BH S AAA Ane a gfe 2 

fafraa 21 vai 8 ye aes 8 2) seers | 2, az apadéen du at 3 aie soe AH 

Us fae Hl os SAH Aca WAS Bseil | 3. gay A whew ye de A us @ faa we 


Be Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ arias of aout Wa 


walftra ait frag aaa (a Sarfem ghee) 


Xe7 05-04-88 09:25:00 NAN ansit YE NOW: : ’ 
S\/ | eral 
feito | 
a 

x >< a fe 
aa pe 
ce La 

remenie Bart Fa ATS Ht UOT wert Fw A 


4. TR HT api UA ay Ae) aa S aR ae | 8. TEA ata A wee ae gay a on ht fe 
am ait aan ch at a ase 4 wofad ase 1 A 2) aa ae Far WH gaTl 
RX TI Vl G94 aA Wa S Wel Te oT A | Prem 
a Treat wy at yet - aa aa wa A 

5. A Up ar hee gay FS wate Sarai | ae AT Tet 21 
Baa Hea sr UR fae A 21 qarat 1988 anata Ut treat wht at afte - wht ar 
& det wae 4 wa ys Hen ak Are A | thee ag 4 21 ae fee cern YR St Sift 
Yom, wa aa afte at SRW we | fea a a at afte fre He 
ser ga Hes a YT fear ami AateT W ATA BA saad yrrarey BT 

6. wat H det ware F gay F abet He | Geayderter ot Waray ures A WaT - 
oat M1) aa ae Fe al wsTfad He er on wel | eT YS Fai H 11g wa A dar é sik wa 
were are feera 21 aaa uf at ofe faa wt 31 waren oat a 

7. 9d afea 7 We vee 8 sa ana ahaa | ot sae WER sft fafa 2) 


Case study 23 


Birth Chert 16-11-74 05:05:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Martiege_ 25.01.2000 


Dom [25.07.2000 | 
chara]Ariesrrau _| 


DK [Venus 
DKN [Cancer —_| 
essa vee ee tale a es] On atc [oe Uee sae 
YPyvy{[vyfTyvytx]vftx] x 


Connected | V 


Analysis another marriage giver Venus. In D9 Rahu 
P1 MDL and PDL Venus is the LL of D1.In DO is posited in Lagna. Thus, the parameter is 
Venus, posited in Cancer, is aspected by 7L satisfied. 
Mercury. ADL Rahu is a natural marriage | P2 Chara Dasha AD is Taurus which is aspected 
giver and in D1 it is posited in Scorpio with by DKN Cancer. The parameter is met. 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao % aries st aout wa 53 


Case Studies 


P3 Jupiter transiting in Aries does not get 
connected to VS falling in Taurus. But the’ 
marriage of this native was fixed four years 
ago when transiting Jupiter aspected VS. 
Thus, this parameter may be taken as 
fulfilled. 

Saturn ‘and Jupiter both are transiting in 
Aries, the natal 7H and they influence 
Lagna, 7L Mars and 7H. Thus the parameter 
is satisfied. 

LL Venus is transiting in Sagittarius and 7L 
Mars is transiting in Aquarius. Thus, this 
parameter is not met. 

Jupiter, transiting in Aries, aspect the natal 
Mars posited in Libra, leading to the 
fulfilment of this parameter. 


pa 


P5 


P6 


Birth Chart 16-11-74 05:05:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


1. ph Fel FT WR Fea t at WSC 
at ag wt 2d aa A ae ae A fer 2 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (c Scientific Appreach) 


P7 Only 3 out of planets are transiting in/ 
around Lagna and 7H leaving this parameter 
unsatisfied. 

Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Mars is transiting in Lagna. This parameter 
remains unfulfilled. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Virgo. A couple of days ago it was 
aspecting transiting 7L Mars from Leo. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~— 
Saturn is transiting in Aries and it casts its Jaimini 
aspect on DK Venus posited in Scorpio. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Venus is the 11L. 


P8 


VANS AON. 


at wafaa ap aot sneitaig 3 ez 
5. TA Ue HI Tet aq A Ss wate dna ay 
Hd ae aes die we a oT wl 
6. AS hi Wa TS Gen ear SH Aaa WK 


a Fa ade gu al sfe 21 aden gfe Sra at Fa Tas SI Yfte at EZ! 


TE ome @ ak waged A ae UP a 
ma 3 at sai A am A fered 21 ai anal 
2 eee 
@ Zi 


7. BAA 3 VS VAT Bh TA H arama F 3k 
sa we A ae dar aa sel sam 21 

8.7 TA Ue Fa wa Kw ait a tt 
SAA ATA BI A A Waa FI 


2 ae gy at t fa nw ae fer| Pritam 
aE wait at gfe SI Treat wag cat afte - Han A That HL TT 
3. AT A a STE a aN guy fea) aan at fea ved fee B aaa Ane a ta TI 
faare Ten Saal at tar 31 Steer ae faore 4} am 
ad cee a Fa Ml Fa We Hl Gen HR afte antente Ut ware vit wt afte - Ag fer 
att TR UA gia fem oraici aah 
4. Wf ae sal ar he te Ae Ht fH Geet! aH HR Bria gfe ce wa 
FT AT 1 ST SA TET Tier | waist A Waray a aAdyra ar 


54 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aries st Gore Ta 


vatiam ait faarg ana (ua dare gheaitor) 
Pa / UAT SAL WRT /TRTAT AT - | ARTI YH Aa HI THT eI 


Case study 24 
Transit Marriage _21.10.1985 


Sirth Chart 05-02-54 13:20:00 


Navemsha (spouse) 


LF Fe | ps | ps Pe | Pe es fon} oe tos uP [Gemini | 


Analysis 

P{ The person got married in Vimshottri Dasha 
of Satum/Venus/Satrun. Venus is the LL and 
also karak for marriage. In D9 Satrun aspects 
LL of D9 and is aspected by Venus. 

Chara Dasha at the time of marriage was 
Sagittarius/Taurus. Taurus is 7" from Dara 
Karak Mars. 

Vivah Saham isin Leo. Jupiter is in Capricorn 
and some time back it was in Sagittarius 
and it had aspected Vivah Saham. 

Saturn is transiting 7" house and thereby 
activating both the Lagna and 7H. Jupiter 
in in the 9H and is aspecting Lagna. 

At the time of marriage LL Venus and the 
7L Mars are transiting together in the 5H in 
Virgo. 


P2 
P3 
P4 


P5 


Gert - 24 

fayerror 

1. wie at fare wre A ET YA 
was st ote tM a a Te 
wet @1 Aa A att Ww fae HS oH UF 
al afte @ 

2. Re sede gay uk A aa A any 
are fer 21 

3. frars wen fee aie A fer 2, safe fore 
HUA We Tent A hay ti ae waa qed 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao  arfexia sit aout wa 


Gerd Ae 


POB | Samastipur 
(Bihar) 

bom |2 1.10,1985 

vim |Sa/Ve/Sa 


ee |e 


This is a male horoscope and at the time of 
marriage Saturn is transiting in Capricorn 
where natal Venus is posited. 

It is noted that Sun and three other planets 
are transiting near 7H. 

in this chart neither LL is near 7H nor is 7L 
near Lagna and therefore this parameter is 
not satisfied. 

Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in the 
9H with Jupiter and is aspected by Saturn from 
the 7H. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK —Satrun 
in transit is in Scorpio where Dara Karak Mars is 
posited in D1. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9 it is posited in ate 
and aspects Venus. 


P8 


Te a aq W wed waa wen a ge fea om 
4. Of ar eR aa RS at Te at dem afte 
ww FI 
5. fare S WAT AA YH aM wa Aa 
wa Ha HT UR A ae a), 
6. FE Feo tee Ht Hse 21 frase H VAT TS 
Fat Ui A ft sel aaa YH AT fer 21 
7. a afed ak ve aaa Ta Hoa fer ZI 
8. Fe WMS a Hse A ory ae a we 
waite faa 8 OT Ted aM a at aT 


55 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 05-02-54 13:20:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


wae Tra A aa al wafaa set a ee | we a sivas aie A on wel Sei eR 
rf Hire fea 21 
Friterct watst YW usta a atareyreaea aT 
Treat wg cat after - aan fare H aaa | Ganydaiter sie Wane weave S Urey - 
aaa Wa A ware aA WK A Tea wit aa A dade 2 an aR HK 
anata Ut tira wit at gfe - face & | seat afte 21 
Case study 25 


Sirth Chart 20-11-64 07:30:00 


Navamsha (spouer) 


Analysis 


P4 


P2 


P3 


P4 


56 


MDL Rahu is posited in 7H in D1. ADL 
Saturn is being aspected by LL Mars in D1. 
Saturn is posited in Lagna in D9. PDL 
Mercury is posited in Lagna in D1 and 
recelves the aspect of LL Mars in D9. Thus 
this parameter Is met. 

Chara Anter Dasha is Scorpio. The parameter 
is not met. 

Till 2°* February, Jupiter was transiting in 
Aquarius. 


[Pi [ p2 | p3 [ pa | ps | pe | p7 [| Ps [7] _o1 [02 [ 03 | 
op [Pisces | 


P5 


Transit Mariage_18.08.1987 


DOM [19.06.1987 | 
charal virScomio | 


DK [Venus 
KN [Libra 
Ce 


not only 7H but also natal LL Mars. Taking 
Saturn’s retrogression into account, it was 
influencing natal 7L Venus as well. Jupiter is 
transiting in Aries from where it is aspecting 
both — natal LL Mars and natal 7L Venus. 
Thus the parameter Is met. ; 

Till 10 June, 1986, i.e., a little more than a 
year before marriage, LL Mars was transiting 
in Sagittarius and it was in mutual aspect 
with 7L Venus transiting in Gemini. 
However, the parameter is not met. 


Saturn is transiting in Lagna and aspecting | P6 Jupiter transiting in Aries is in mutual aspect 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + aria at toute Ta 


witfew cite fears waa (war dara gfeaior ) qe AeA 


with natal Venus, leading to the fulfilment | transiting in Pisces, in RK Axis. The transiting 
of this parameter. Moon is being aspected by natal LL Mars. 

P7_ 6planets, including Sun, out of the 9 planets Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The | Saturn is transiting in Scorpio. However, because 
parameter is satisfied. of its retrogression, Saturn is effective from Libra 

P8 LL Mars was transiting in Taurus, the natal | and thus influences DK Venus which is posited 
7H, till £4 May thus satisfying the | there. 
parameter. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 

Observations ttH/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Rahu is posited in 
Role of transiting Moon — Moon is! 11H. 


Birth Chart 20-11-64 07:30:00 Navarnisha (spouse) Transit Marriaga_18.06.1987 Paem fea | 

ferare array antral] 19-06-1987] 

. an . 6 ‘ y a S pa Sek i fers [unas = 

Mo Ka ee eavate | 

am fe 

TAS AVENE BEN VASO Ns ee 

nn a 

Gerd - wa-aa oft fata sat He Tet am cifHs 
fagerat mes at Ge al saeM 

l. Fee UE st-1 @ aaa wa As ak] 6. theta ye aaa cae Yeu seh S wae 

ars UA Te aM tna at af 2 ye at am afte tar ga ads Hl yO He 

wit Fat he a A el WRK STA gy Tr TM 
(3-1 4) wa Ae at aa A sa | 7. ata Fa 6 oe A ae OK fig 


tint at af 21 q| 

2. WR aan irae ale sk GHA aw ae flex) 8. 11 Ae TH A A aI IRR ae Wa 
wet daa gay a a 

3.2 wrat TH Te SM Bl was wx wer am, | Frtaror 
viel fare wen fea 21 Treat ws at afer - da a ok ad 


4. Wa oe sea S Mae HT el VT A act | VAT VT Weg Ha Ws Fa TW A Ana 
Bae We, Sieh VATHIC AR He HY at | wt afte 21 
2a Wl tl asl afte HA W ae BT Uw al anrate wt whet wh at afte - ad a 
a wafer at wr 21 45 a op we) a gee Fake ar we 7g, cia aaa SF 
Saar We Ta sk aa YH sal! SRT fred wa ger A ad seis UH HI se 
al ot wenfaa Ht tel 21 ea RE A clea That | varia fren wt fH sei care 21 
wt ary ea 21 watst W aera a atarcymrarer art 
5. Uh ad cect 10 WA 1986 dae TA Ae 1 | We dade sit Ware Waray A BET - 
74 we wre feos feed aes ge | sere Ve 119 Ta ST 21 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢ ariesty st seu wa 57 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approach) 


Dow [21.11.1079 
js | (Sroafeaarar 
DK \Juoter | 
KN |ubra 
uP [sei] 


Bisth Chart 10-10-53 20:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) é Transit Today Marriage-21.11.1979 


Case study 26 P6 Jupiter is aspecting natal Venus fulfilling the 
parameter. 
Analysis P7 Four planets Sun, Mer, Moon, and Venus 
P1 MDL Saturn is aspecting 7" H of D9. ADL are in 7H. 
Mars is also aspecting 7" H of D1. PDL Rah | P8 LL Venus is in 7" H 
is in Lagna of D9. Observations 
P2 Taurus (AD) was running in Chara dasha. Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 7° 
Taurus has Dara Pada and is aspected by | H on the day of marriage. 
DKN. Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn aspect 
P3 Jupiter has already activated VS from Cancer. | on DK Jupiter. 
P4 Saturn is aspecting 7" H where as Jupiter is PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
with 7" L Mars. — ADL Mars is posited with 11L Jupiter and PDL 


P5 Piya Milan has taken place few months back. | Rahu is onths back. | Rahu is being aspected by 11L Jupiter. 


Girth Chart NON 20:00:00 Navamsha Na Transit SZ If 11.1979 seers 
Sera 

qzrd - 26 TR Sa Fa St At gfe es) 

fagerot 3. faare wen vat At wate feats H TAA YS 


1. Tai A aera wi aM sat aa A fae uta 4 om faare S HS GAs Ted He A 
aa @ ak cet 8 eM a wa TAT al EE wed waa fied aa a sea fare wen at 
Hl el U1 AT Ta eet a aH taT am fran 
21 TR WUT UE Aa Aas AV aa: | 4. fags H ara We fee F om sage F 
ae am faa & fae aaa am ehh SA Uh den aa ane fas A st fer 21 

2. Re sateen gay Uf A ange feta S atk sa fae & aaa wh aan A a wei a oH 


58 Guide Shri K.N. Rao % ariasit st oe Ta 


witfarm aft faare aera (uae daha gfeaicr ) qe sea 


aay aa wl teat sft st Tater 
5. fame & ara a YH gan Uh A aT Treat as at after - frase & aA aT 
aaa ata fas FA Ana A aged gfe A) aa wa A em 
wR YH al ge fea antentte ut that wit at afte - fra a 
6. Fe BSc yeu sae st 21 fare H ana fee | wea wR Hen UR A aes a, we A say 
Ufa Fe a Bel TK MARSH HS ypH aS S| MaRH We al Vt sft ch 
7. faore ws RR & Ot Ulead aR Te AAA Water WH WETayt A steaayrarer AT 


ara A fer 21 UAA/TaagT sie Waa eT/ Wea A ArT - 
8. fags Fa AAT YH ae Ta A stat | serers Are AGT S THAT Ye H Aa ad 
Fa AS Hl WW AL WI 21 2) FARR WIA UE WAM S VAM Gy S A 
ad & ak unrest We at gfe st 2 
Case study 27 
Birth Chart 27-04-65 09:15:00 Navamaha (spouse) Transit Marriage 01.12.1991 


Dom [or.r2.1994 | 
[chara Psc/Cance| 


DK [vupiter 


oP | P2) | SPS 3) Pa | Po | Pe). Pr) Ps] ot | 02 | 03] 
ps Aiba aier| Aes [ea 


Analysis marriage. 

P1 MDL and PDL Saturn is posited in 5H in D9 | P5 Transit of both - LL Mercury and 7L Jupiter - 
and it aspects 7H. ADL Sun is posited in in Leo till 24" September is a harbinger of 
Aries in D1 with natural marriage giver the impending marriage. 

Venus. In D9, Sun is posited in Cancer where | P6 _ Jupiter transiting in Leo casts its ninth aspect 
its receives the fifth aspect of LL Jupiter. on natal Venus posited in Aries. The 
Thus, the parameter is satisfied. parameter is fulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Cancer where It is | P7 5 planets, including Sun, are transiting in/ 
aspected by DK Jupiter is posited. The around Lagna and 7H, leading to the 
Parameter is met. satisfaction of this parameter. 

P3 Jupiter transiting in Leo aspects VS in Aries, | P8 Till the previous day LL Mercury was 
thus leading to fulfilment of this parameter. retrograding in Sagittarius, the natal 7H and 

P4 Satum is transiting in Capricorn from where it will transit in 7H from 7" January, thus 
it casts its third aspect on natal LL Mercury meeting the parameter. 
posited in Pisces. Further, this transiting | Observations 
Saturn receives the ninth aspect of natal 7L Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 


Jupiter posited in Taurus. Jupiter transiting | transiting in Virgo from where it aspects natal LL 
in Leo casts its fifth aspect on natal 7H | Mercury posited in Pisces. 
Sagittarius. Thus, double transit clears the Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * anigsia at Sour va 59 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (0 Scientific Approoch) 


11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Saturn is posited in 
5H and it aspects 11H. 


Jupiter is posited in Taurus and it receives the 
Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in Capricorn. 
PAC of MDL/ADL with ge ae and/or 


Birth Ne 27- Nw 08:15:00 Navamsha REZ Transit ee NH) 12.4991 


ONAN ee 
6. fae feta tat Te 4 Ay fer Satara 
Diet eaencene aes (Fea Hse) W afk SrerHt Fa Aes al 
wa 4 tl sada a a ase Fao FA wet SETA 
face & tafte ore Ye S aa ti aa a] 7. qd waa s ve Tt ave F oe wT 
am 4 fea ai at ae ae at va afte Bint set etfs SS ze 
fia Tt 21 8. Un fa ved ae TAT ge oy A at oT ot 
2. Rade He te fra aa ye teat} = fie GH Ta 21 
ga FH al AT EI ZI Friterct 
3. fae A areata ter We AG fea fare wea Treat wg cat yfttenr - Han A aa AT BT 
W gfe Sere Set arqufa @ xet V1 aan HA feed ara ae qu Ht daar z1 
4. Fert A Tbe we ter wha A feed AT a ART UT Weare VIPT aat afte - cE 
wT Waa gfe sre wer 2 at eae BA TN fers | Te gas At fos Wah H a at fit gfe 
waar wa we at sft far wi 21/21 
Te wr We fas A wat aay Aa wy ai Waret W AETay a stata yrraret aT 
te at det the a fan ar ee Tl | Wada ait Whee /TaeseT A WaT - 
5. 24 fare an fee Fame ga a aa AS Sey ae eres 
WI ZI 


Case study 28 
Birth Chart 19-12-48 05:10:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Mertiege_ 23.02.1980 


wifes att faarg wra (ua darfrs Gfeator) 


Analysis 

Pi MDL Ket is with 7" L of D9. ADL and PDL 
Sun is with LL Mars in D1. 

AD Taurus was running in Chara Dasha. 
Taurus has DKN placed in it. 

Jupiter is aspecting VS through retro aspect 
from Leo. 

Saturn is aspecting lagna, and Jupiter is 
aspecting LL Mars. 

Piya Milan has taken place a month ago. 


Birth Chart 19-12-48 05:10:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


1. TERI Aq wR Aa A wae wt at 
gfe d1 aad at wa tect A are 
Ara & wat dt aaa A ae waa ae a1 

2. aan gay A aes Aan fier 21 
aa: ae aM faa few saqad <a et 

3. faore wen HH FH fera 2 face & waa We 
aot eter fee A a aa: oat BA A TT 
frst wa F faare wen We sfte Stet 

4. faare & Waa We saat stax fas A aha 
1 ata: frect We a ye a wa Wa aT 
was al Tar afte S ten fae S aT 


we ser 


P6 Jupiter is aspecting natal Venus through 

retro aspect. 
P7 This parameter is not fulfilled. 
P8 This parameter is also not valid for this case. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon ~ Moon is in 7" 
H on the day of marriage. 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn does not 
aspect on DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
— Not connected. 


Transit Marriage_23.02.1880 


5. fare & BA Ae UM amt ear fae F A 
wafer Use Ht ist Ai sta: AT 3 arse sfte 
a Ue ol ge frat 

6. FS WRI Mas Bl Feel 2 fae A hae a 
@ oat Te 4 fied wa 8 wae UE at 
fay sfc ct 

7. 48 AGES Fa Hoel W fx wel dom 21 

8. ae AGES sit YW set Bt z1 

Fatteror 
Treat wg wet after - sa aaa 4 21 
NTR UF Tree wiht at afte - ERA 
ad a thee wht at gfe af 2 
Warst A WETayT aA stead yaa wT 


wit aet sat men A abe 91 wh 4] den /deier ait are/were S Bra - 
Het gfe 8 wa cen aed Ht ge fea | carne wr Aa & 5/11 Ha Ss Hy Way ae 


AW Val 21 


Case study 29 


Analysis 
P1 MDL Rahu isin mutual aspect with 7L Satum 
in D9. ADL Sun is posited with 7L Jupiter in 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arigs= of torte wa 


D1. Sun is the LL of D9. PDL Venus, besides 
being a significator for marriage, is conjunct 
with 7L Jupiter in D1. Venus is posited in 


61 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


Pauri - 
Uttarakhand 
4.11.2007 
im a/Sun/Ve 


Birth Chart 04-02-74 22:48:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriege_24.11.2007 


7H of D9. The parameter is fulfilled. not met. 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Leo and it is in 1-7] P7 4 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
axis with DK Mercury. Parameter is met. Lagna and 7H, leading to a reasonable 
P3 Jupiter is transiting in Sagittarius - the sign satisfaction of this parameter. 
in which VS falls, thus leading to the | P8 Neither LL Mercury ls transiting in 7H nor 
satisfaction of this parameter. 7L Jupiter is transiting in Lagna, leaving this 
P4 Saturn is transiting in Leo from where it is in parameter unfulfilled. 
mutual aspect with natal LL Mercury. Jupiter | Observations 
was transiting in Scorpio till 2 1* November Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
and from there it was aspecting the 7H. So, | transiting in Taurus where it receives the fifth 
the parameter is met. aspect of natal 7L Jupiter. 
P5 On 16" August LL Mercury was transiting Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 


in Cancer where it received the ninth aspect | Saturn is transiting in Leo and it is in 1-7 axis 
of 7L Jupiter transiting in Scorpio. Thus, the | with DK Mercury posited in Aquarius. 
parameter is met. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 

P6 Jupiter transiting In Sagittarius does not get | 11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Rahu is being 
connected to natal Venus is retrograde and | aspected by both - 5L Jupiter and 11L Mercury. 
is posited in Capricorn. The parameter is | ADL Sun is posited in 11H and it aspects 5H. 


Birth Chart 01-02-74 22:48:00 Navamsha (spouse) 

| = 
Gera - 29 fafa ak Tl 21 aadera a a ase 
faye H MAT TE H MA Sl FS TAT HT AM 


1. Fey UE aaa A aaa wa a afte at d1 WR waa ye fae a aafin 


62 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ Ariat ait aut wa 


witfae sit frag wre (ua aafia gfcaicr ) Tet ae 


are 8 & Acta St-1 mH ae Te Hl 7.9084 We a WO & ST Wet BS 
aa ¢ ak sai Fae eas aa 4 dat e1 ga fran at eipfa 2 eS ZI 
we 8 GH ag fags SI WaT 2ST | 8. aA a qu aH a ae ae oh aa 


. a aatéen fae at é fad aaa A ces SAAT WS Hl A Al safe ae Hees Tet 


ga ftad 2 au Fal aM ZI 


. faore wen oq Ae oh fare S GH TR aT | Patter 


aeét a a aT Ter we at afar - gay Fp 


. fae She ak SOU at cite Srercia | a W Serre aaa ae a oft 21 


WAT GW U1 21 FAR TH AK A TS STEN UT Wet wi wt afte - fas 4 
gira A on ak aa wae ora al sfte tat | Te a we OT SB TM A qe qa (GA A) 
sear det are ar faa any fear am aa zi 


16 Set HT qu ae FM wel va WateT A Welayl aA sara yraeay HT 


give Fare ae ee aaa qe at cite | dan dade sit Uae Taras A Ae - 
fret oti ad: Fe Gat At ary aT! TSIM UE RK TANT Te ware ge at at 


. og 8 freer ye 2 ok aS Up aS saa | S cfs 2 at aderga I 114 Wa F Saar ak 


we Wary Te FA WI ZI e vaH Wa Hl ta Wz! 
Case study 30 


Birth Chart 05-08-81 08:15:00 Nevamsha (spouse) Transit Marriaga_23.04.2003 


23.04.2003 
Ra/Ke/Mer 
SeoWvirge 


[ Pi | p2 [| P3 | pa | ps5 | Pe | Pr | PB | ee 
RRA RaRAR eee e ee eee a 


Analysis 

P1 MDlord Rahu is placed with lagna lord.AD P7 Here uf out of 9 planets are around lagna 
lord Ketu is in 1/7 axis of LL.PD I mer is|, 07" House Se, 
posited with Rahu in D1 and is 7L of D9. P8 Neither lagna lord is in 7 be nor 7® lord in 

P2 in chara dasha AD is of Virgo which has DK lagna, ‘hence the: parameter [snot met. 
in it Observations 

P3 Jupiter is transiting in Can and from there it Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 


P4 


P5 
P6 


transiting over VS, also aspecting LL sun and 
MDL Rah 
Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is in 
Gemini and is aspecting DK, the natal Saturn 
PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
~ 5% L of DO is Mars is in Rahu/Ketu axis in 
DO(MD and AD lords) 


is aspecting VS which is in CAP 

Jupiter is transiting over natal lagna lord 
Sun and Saturn is in 11" H from where it is 
aspecting Lagna 

Parameter is not net. 

Jupiter has already influenced natal Mars 
while transiting in Gemini 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * unfesia ot Soup Wa 63 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approach) 
Girth Chart 05-08-81 08:15:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage_23.04.2003 


SDK SW SK 
RIS 
LSJ NIENZAN ARAN 


1. FERIA UES Ma A Bt at ae} ZI 
aq a aa 8 ame 21 got ae qu] 8. The a om ad ae a a ae aT 
we aw S Ty waRScH As A aa a ifs oma Ht Werte Tet He, fred ae AGES 


ae aa 21 I vel etm 
2. Ht ara Uf aa A waar area wits | Frterot 
fer 2 Treat wg at yfiret - wet aI aK AvST 


3. TR A ye Be aa (HH) A ae qa] Saale order aS aa done omelets twa 2 
(gfraa) A feera foots wen at waifad ae SnteHrta Wt Mat we at gfte - Eset A 
Fa ads at ot a Hem a1 are wits men uf A fer cae TR & 

4, The a af fags a ora wt yore az cer | fae of A oo wh a afte were fear wz 
31 IRR ST Ue TAT S SRF IPR BW 2 waist WY Weta a atardyarear aT 

5. ae AIRS Get WW zal ate 21 WIA /TAAT Be WHS / THT A ATT - 

6. faya BRA waa We Tarai ane al | aan HI Gade Ane Ue-hq Ba HZ 


Case study 31 
Navamsha (spouse) Transit Meriage_30.04.1999 


01 3] [UP__ [Scorpio __| 
Ca 


Analysis P2: AD Tau is aspected by DK and DKN (both are 
Pt: MDL lord Jupiter is aspecting 7" L Saturn, in Lib) 
ADL Saturn is 7" lord of D1 and Rahu is | P3: Jupiter is aspecting VS from Pisces 
unconditional marriage giver. P4: Saturn is aspecting LL Sun through 7" aspect 


64 Guide Shri K.N. Rao < ariexia st Sup Wa 


watfire ait frets aaa (ua darfrs gfieater ) Ter wen 


but Jupiter has no connection Observations 
PS: Saturn and Sun are in 9" H showing Piya Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
milan transiting in 1-7 axis with LL and DK and DKN 
P6: Jupiter has no connection with natal Mars Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is in 1/7 
P7: four planets Sun, Saturn, Mercury, and Jupiter | axis of DK 
are close to 7" H PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
P8: Neither lagna lord is in 7" H nor 7 lord in | — D9 11™ lord Saturn is Aspecting MDL Jupiter 
lagna _—___and 5" L Sun is with Jupiter 
Birth Chart 19-10-71 02:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) <7 ww 


XPS SEE 


FOO Od == 


qed - 31 6. Gram Fe a WE TH Ase F 
Ana al wafad vet fra ae AMS YO AT 
1. Waraset A cara dade ye a waa Bat #1 
arama wit fra @ a We WE a) 7. Tai A on ew ae Th 
Tete ot afd aa A aa aa A ak WE wad waa Be ve Zi 


wae 4 fers 31 ae aes YE eet z 8. That A ame ae A aes al ae ae A 
2. RK Aa Fas Ut Hts fra we gen fea A wa wa at verted wet fran vafaa ae 
SRR F ae Aa HI sft 21 mes Yu vet ete z 


3. aged sta (fram) A fera face wen at! Prtteror 
areq ara (HA) A fea ae a wefad fer Tat wg at yftar - a ae A TS 
zl TH AL WE SRA RAT ATER FT THI 

4. TR & wha A aan aa (AN) A doar ae | Ta aH SH a ZI 
wa at wrfad fern, cfr thee ye a a A aRtetar Ut What wiht cet gfe - ger ue 
sont yrfaa set fea det thee ar ages | A aS cere a al (SESE) ae A 
wR Ae ete 21 Ae a (Aa4) Ufad ae eS ZI 

5. Tha aT ag ae cen aaa we Sat AoA water Y WETayT A seas VATA AT 
aa A wep ay ad & Bate fren fret gan 21 | er aaaer ait waraer/werasiet BS ArT - 


ae ARS YT stat BI TERMATY Te wa Tate ZI 
Case study 32 
Analysis P2 ADScorpio is 1/7 axis of DK and is aspected 


Pi MDL Moon is placed in 7" H OF D9 and by 7Pad from Cancer 
ADL Mars is in 7" H of D1 P3 Jupiter is aspecting VS (Sagittarius) from Leo 
Guide Shri K.N. Rao  ariesit sit doa Ta 65 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (0 Scientific Approoch) 


(Pakistan) 
Dow [02.12.1967 | 
pK [Saturn | 
IDKN [Aquarius 
Ter | p2 [ps [ ps [ps | pe | pr | P8|]  O1 | o2[o3| (UP lia | 
pp [Cancer| 


P4 Saturn is in 7" H aspecting Lag and Jupiter | P8 Neither lagna lord is in 7" H nor 7" lord is 


Birth Chart 28-09-41 06:07:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage _02.12.1967 


has already influenced 7" H through 9" in lagna 
aspect while transiting in Cancer Observations 
P5 Mercury the 7L was transiting with Jupiter Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
in Leo a few months back. aspecting DK Saturn and is transiting over LL 
P6 For male native Jupiter should influence | Mercury 
Venus but in this case Jupiter has no Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
connection with Venus aspecting DK 
P7 all planets are scattered in the horoscope PAC of MDL/ADL WITH SH/L or 11H/L 


- it II" Lof 1" L of D9 Jupiter is aspecting AD lord Mars 


Birth Chart NON 08:07:00 Navamshe NCA Transit Marriage_02.12.1867 ore 
oe ct 
pa 

EPOX PKEOXE 
aa ZO NGM NS a 
Acawar we W Ye A wa Al Sew 


1. WRIT TR HR TT WE at gfe zl Sn oa fst a 9 
FATS Ha ae At aM wea eT | ATR — 
Te Aaa t1 Aa F as aa A el 5. Grae Fa aS aE ae a -fie F 

2, Rae Gas ae fed ae A aaen| TAC SE Te a fen fers at ger ei ae 
wart feert 21 ARS WU at zi 

3. Fae a (aq) BY five fone wen wm fis a | 6. fe Ho ah ae Ye FT ase F Uw FT 
TR at @ We 4 yard ae gE ATs a ds 
Wt fal | 

4. Tren wh were ara Ye Aes fee A ate] 7 Ta wa & oo ae I thee ete 


66 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ariaeia sit Botte Ta 


witfia ait faare ara (ua daria gheaior ) Te ser 
fer toda 4 wet a eel anata Ut tre wit at gfe - gay 

8. TR A AT Fa AS HT ae SAT Te | Uh A fee are VI Oe A A OTR a we 
4 ot Wfad vel fran 1 ae aaes Ge | wha St Siri gfe ae z1 


wet eta 21 Wael W WETay a state yr aT 
Frttarat Wan aaa sit WHS / THT A AT - 
Tet ae al afer - aa Gia wa W) aera ae aI dan a HR fee Ft HRT 
TR Hh AAG WT WIA Hl a WI ZI Te wt 
Case study 33 
Birth Chart 10-12-54 13:55:00 Navamshe (spouse) Transit Marriage_28.01.1980 


Bow [26011660 
= 
chara GorvSeq 
al 

a a 
DKW fis 
uP loon 


| Pi | p2 | ps | p4 [Ps | Pe | P7 | PS | 


pe! Joa. 

Analysis satisfied. 

Pi MDL Jupiter is the LL of D1 and aspects the | P6 Jupiter transiting in Leo does not establish 
Lagna & 7L mercury. In D9 Jupiter is casting any relationship with natal Venus posited in 
its ninth aspect on LL Saturn. ADL Saturn is Libra, leaving this parameter unfulfilled. 
the LL of D9 and it aspects Lagna. PDL | P7 6 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Venus, besides being a natural marriage Lagna and 7H. The parameter is met. 
giver, is posited with LL Saturn in D9. Thus, | P8 Currently neither LL Jupiter is transiting in 
the parameter is fulfilled. 7H nor 7L Mercury is transiting in Lagna. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is Sagittarius which receives The parameter is not met. 
the aspect of UPL Gemini, leading to the | Observotions 
fulfilment of this parameter. Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 


P3__ VS falling in Aquarius receives the aspect of | transiting in Gemini which is the UP and Chara 
Jupiter transiting in Leo. Parameter is met. | Dasha MD. Further, this Moon aspects Chara 
P4 Saturn is transiting in Virgo, the natal 7H, | Dasha AD Sagittarius. 
and aspects Lagna. Jupiter is the natal LL Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
and it is transiting in Leo. Retrogression of | Saturn transiting in Virgo does not get connected 
transiting Jupiter means it is effective from | to DK Jupiter posited in Cancer. 


Cancer and gets connected to natal LL PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
Jupiter and natal 7L Mercury. Thus, the | 11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Jupiter is posited in 
parameter is met. Leo and it aspects SL Venus posited in Aries. 


P5 LL Jupiter in transit is retrograding in Leo | Jupiter is being aspected by 11L Mars. ADL 
and is effective from Cancer from where it | Saturn is posited with SL Venus in Aries and it 
is in mutual aspect with 7L Mercury | receives the aspect of 11L Mars. 
transiting in Capricorn. The parameter is 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arias st aor wa 67 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 10-12-54 13:55:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


2K Lanes 


fageraut 

1. TERT Te ar at a ak aa 
gu at tam 21 vais 4 ae ae A 
Fay sf Sra tel 31 sradeara wha at wat 
AST Sl AA S stk oH Hl Gaal V1 WIR 
IIS Ys Aa A ar US As saat 
Fa AMS Hl Wha We Be TT 2 

2. RSM wet A aq at orden 2 sik faa 
feta saug mH at Ta HR gfe 21 

3. frare wen Ga A 2 safe fee A mheax at 

et 

4. a at thee wen 2 Ht fH aaa aa 2 
ak FI Re aH WH gfe ot 31 We a ae 
fee Fat 2, afer amt aft A aren ae Hae 
@ ward get Sears AAT We a ATA 
gy al a aware at ter 21 

5. oat aft & aR He A wart at wr aT 
ye ee 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (0 Scientific Approoch) 


Transit Marriage_28.01.1880 


| 
aifab-1 80 


6. WR HWS wl Hea fer Gari BHF 
alg weary vel FAW eT 21 sae aE HTT 
Fel ay wel at TE 21 

7.6 TE TAF UH H ATG WH art 
arqnfa 3 @ ZI 

8. faa & aaa a at ae Te aes A oT sik 
aa aaa gy a eT a a aT 


Wert wg at eft - aT a TR FAA 
He wel sq S aie Sat Ue aT HR <M Wet 
pei SAMMY wy At Sa tt 
TI el 

antere Wt wee wht at afte - Han A 
TR EM Hh PRU Mit Heh feet SATHT SRT 
Te a a wa sel TT we zl 

Warst W WETaVT A aaa yA BT 
TAA / TAT BT WATER. a Wary - 
qa Ase A very fee ¥ dar ak qa A 
ao Wate ye al ted 21 sada wf set 
ee NS ee eS grate 

! 


Case study 34 


Analysis 

Pi MOL Jupiter is the 7L in D1. In D9 it receives 
the aspect of 7L Mars. ADL Mercury is the 
LL of Di. PDL Mars is the 7L of D9. The 
parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and it receives the 
aspect of DK Saturn posited in Pisces. The 
parameter is satisfied. 

VS falls in Capricorn and Jupiter is transiting 


P2 


P3 


68 


in Leo, however, till 13" August Jupiter 
was transiting in Cancer and from there it 
aspected the VS. The parameter is met. 
Saturn is transiting in Capricorn and from 
there it aspects both — LL Mercury posited 
in Libra and 7L Jupiter posited in Cancer. 
Jupiter transiting in Leo is the natal 7L and 
it is aspecting the 7H. Thus double transit 
gives the green signal to marriage. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % aPRRA st aw Ta 


vaitfern aft frame wa (Ta aarhrer Gheetor) 


Birth Chart 14-10-66 21:22:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


P5__ Till 24" September LL Mercury transiting in 
Leo was conjunct with 7L Jupiter in transit, 
thus signalling the satisfaction of this 
parameter. 

Jupiter is transiting in Leo where natal Mars 
is posited, leading to the fulfilment of this 
parameter. 

5 planets, including Sun, out of 9 planets 
are transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is met. However, at this time 
the parameter ts not met. 

LL Mercury will transit in Sagittarius, the 
natal 7H, from 15" December, leading to a 
satisfactory fulfilment of this parameter. 


P7 


Birth Chart 14-10-66 21:22:00 Navarneha (spouse) 


4 VeSaR 


1, Tees ze St-1 F aes Sf a So F 
a weg ae at she fier wi t1 aT 
Ae Sarees A AA U1 WRIT ATT 
Fa HT AAT 21 

2. RAAT Ha Hts Bk A A da ewes 
Wt Sa HR gee Srernt Hot Tenfa wT FI 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao < aries ot teu Wa 


WANA ANA 


XX DOK 


Transit Marriage-10.11.1991 


DOM |Nov 1991 


Gg 
io aa 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon, transiting 
in Aquarius, is In mutual aspect with 7L Jupiter 
transiting in Leo. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
Saturn is transiting in Capricorn and it does not 
establish Jaimini aspect on natal Saturn which is 
the DK. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — In D9, MDL Jupiter is posited in 
Virge with 11L Sun where it receives the third 
aspect of 5L Saturn posited in Cancer. ADL 
Mercury is in mutual aspect with 11L Sun. 


Transit Marriage-10.11.1991 


3. faare wen Fa He, Safe ye fee a ae 
wt Tl Si cies 13 are aH HSH FA wed 
wr Te 4 wen we efte Stet et 

4, Fat H whe Hed Ga vita apt efee gen feera 
aA qu ait Hep fete Staci we WE 
at wei We ar The ae Ta Mt Tats 
ae Ua e St at as a ae HH A fea 
wrars ye a) at warfad Het eT 21 


69 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


5, ota 24 fare we fae A oh ae aaa gu | Prteror 


qe aaa Te H aa wear fen fae wt 
ayaa = yet a 

6. Te fee Sarat HX I 2 TET Ba Alsen STH 
al Warn Ge feera 1 Sa We B ae Bd 
Te a art 31 

7. Fa WAG 5 We AA SF GA ST Hes F srt 
wipfa 3 zi 

8. 15 eae GAM GY Ta Wa Fy S a 
aon ak da saat ot aeafa st et are 
fecerea ae WIS ar] At ete ZI 


Treat wg al afta - ay A Theat at I 


aa fae @ they aes ae a oft fata 
AX I BI 


anata Ut arat yift at qfie - war A 


TIER HX TS VP I aH WS site Geary 
et FA ter 21 


watyt Y weray a arated yaar wt 


TAA /GAAT ait WHIT / THT A AT - 
oan F Teeny We wae ei H ays sik 
sah Vea als at ota gfe 31 aera gu 


ak wares aa A gfe ware 21 
Case study 35 


Birth Chart 22-01-75 05:25:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


Analysis 

Pi MDL Mars is placed in Lagna ADL Jupiter is 
aspecting 7" H and Rah is aspecting MDL 
and ADL in D9. 

Piscesces (AD) is aspected by DK from 
Sagittarius. 

Jupiter has already influenced VS while 
transiting over Sagittarlus. 

Saturn is aspecting lagna and Jupiter is 
transiting over 7" L. 

About 2 months back Mercury was in Virgo 
and was aspected by Lagna Lord Jupiter. 
For female native Jupiter should influence 


P2 


P3 


P4 


P5 


P6 


[ Pi [| p2 | p3 [ pa | P5 | Pe | p7 | Pe | 
op fieo 


Transit Mariege-22.11,1997 


ear aT 
charcoal 
son 
[DK [Mars 
Tame 
oF loan 


natal Mars. Jupiter has already activated 

Mars while transiting through Sagittarius. 
P7 Most of the planets are close to Lagna. 
P8 Neither lagna lord is in 7" H nor 7" lord in 

lagna. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is transitin 
over KL which is Leo. 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is 
aspecting DK from Pisces 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
— 11" Lof d9 Mars is MDL and is placed 
withJupiter which is ADL 


Stat - 35 
fayerrut 
L. Waraseh 8 aes GaAs Ane aa AS 
a ary aa Ye at gfe Te ZI 


70 


FRAY UE A UT Ana et 2 aaa A 

ana sk Te wH Ma gen A ugag at 

uff 4 21 sa We ae AGES WE Am 21 
2. Fare fee Fae ve feed an aAeT 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & ariesiz at tue Wa 


wifrr ait fare aaa (ua dare gfear) Te ser 


Birth Chart 22-01-75 05:25:00 Navamsha (spousa) Transit Marriage-22.11.1897 fae feet | 
Rey Me ee ee, erg Sere Ney 
40 8 As Mea 
Va J 
8 
Re | 
8 
A VN AS 
HM UR oR ERs Ane al sfte o1 ae sefiaig 3 wz 
3. aq F feaa fears Gen Ha W fea the S| 8. The A ae Te ae Oe a gq 
Teh My Way Ga GT 21 ao at wala al fear 2 eofew ae 


4. TR ar MA asd a A dont aH at sik ARS YO Tel Stat 

Te feta aa Fate qu at usfaa aes | Frtteror 

aet Te SH AIS I YT HG ZI Tre wg at yfirer - fre & fe a 
5. TR A ae qe wae (fede wa) A sik] are eam (an) A do ar aa offs ar VF! 
aaa qu afern (grea) A fer @ dal anteater Ut Treat wit at afte - Hecit F 
ved Ot Uae ery TT Gh Sl Fe | eRe Ae og ae fe RoR a a 
ares ot ye eta eI a afte Sra TH al 
. FR ATR a TE A ERS S IM Warst YW WeTayT a aAayraal ar 
(aq) fer Ane al usted set fran ae | decade ott wearer /eenresteT @ ATT - 


n 


mes GO vet sta ze HERMAN Wea at aa Ue W sft 1 ATT 
7. aH We OE sled 9 vel A a ora ve TR | cares of a1 
Case study 36 


. Birth Chart 28-11-55 15:45:00 Navamsha (spousa) Transit Marriage-2-12-1984 


DOM [02.12.1964 


DK [Stun 
DKN [Cancer __ 
ju [capi | 
DP advan | 


Analysis DK Saturn 
P{ MDLand ADL Rahuis aspected in D9 by 7L | P3 Jupiter is aspecting VS by its 7" aspect from 
Mars. PDL Venus is in Lagna of D9 & 7L of Sag 
D1. P4: Saturn is in 7" H and Jupiter Is aspecting 
P2 AD of cancer has DKN and is aspected by lagna 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * urfeda sf St Wa ral 


Case Studies 


P5: Venus is a fast moving planet and soon Piya 
Milan will take place. At present the 
parameter is not met. 

P6: Jupiter is not aspecting Mars 

P7: Most of the planets are close to 7" H and 
Moon is close to Lagna 

P8: Nelther lagna lord is in 7° H nor 7® lord In 
lagna 


Birth Chart 28-11-55 15:15:00 


© 


Navamsha (spouse) 


8 Ve 
8 
a Me Su Ra 


L. Fare A ware ne at gfe cM TE We 
TW OAT BRT WI SIT YS wa A A 
fer 21 aes yO eet ZI 

2. Ram fees aie a aa A aa ve fers 21 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approoch) 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is about 
to enter Lagna. 

Aspect of Saturn on DK — Saturn is not 
aspecting DK 

PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 11H/L 
— 5" L of D9 is Mer and it is placed with MDL in 
D1. 11" L Jupiter is aspecting PDL Venus. 


en at] 
fr apr | 


Transit Mamiage-2-12-1884 


dl Fe WIS YO Tel St wT eI 

7. WA aa & are-Te wa wed wes Te APA 
ax @ G1 aS YO eet Zz 

8. faae @ fea a Ana A aT at sik 
WA Ys A aa al yatfad set fern 21 ae 
aes ye at etn Zz 


arden me Ut A aoa aa fera 21) Friern 


ae STI wat UM A ae 2 

3. fear uf A feera faate eA RA ye 4 
3 ufa.S oom gfe Sra ter ti ae AIS 
Bat ZI 

4, oq ute 4 fea are A ye THES SAA 
TR IM VA SB Vit A We afte Ser Hr alee 
TR AT AMES WT HT ZI 

5. Fei faare A a al fren fers set fea 21 

6. TaTRStH & wa A fers ATA KK vq Us A 
THAT AX WS YS HI Hy GAY A ALT ST TT 


Trex ay at aftr - aa ae at ee 
BRM Wa RW AK fate & fea areitaie SA aH fore 
wa A yas we are ZI 

anata Ut Mar wiht wt gfe - qa 
qf feed anane wh @ ae at Oe Uh aT ale 
weary at ZI 

warst WY aerayt a@ addy aT 
Waa six WHR / THT A MTT - 
ee en ea 

: 


Case study 37 


Analysis 

Pi 
Saturn is aspecting Lagna of D1 and Venus 
is 7" Lof D1 and In 7H in D9. 

P2 


72 


MDLMars is aspecting 7" H of D9 and ADL | P4 


Tau (AD)is aspected by both DK and DKN | P6 


P3 ‘Jupiter is not aspecting VS 

Saturn is aspecting 7thH and Jupiter is with 
7" L Venus 

Piya Milan has already taken place in Sco 


Jupiter while transiting through sco has 


P5 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ares ait So wa 


Birth Chart 16-07-81 15:15:00 


ee 
ORAS KOK 


Ferd - 
fayerrot 


wife ait faare waa (uae aarfrar gfeator ) 
Birth Chart 16-07-81 15:15:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


[ Pi [ p2 [ p3 | pa | ps | pe | p7 | Pe | 


influenced Venus 


P7 Most of the planets are close to Lagna 
P8 Venus was is Sco some time ago 
Observations 


Transit Meriege-23.1 1.2008 


Aspect of Saturn on DK ~ Saturn is not 


aspecting DK. 


PAC of MDL/ADL WITH 5H/L or 1 1H/L 


— Mars the MDL and Saturn the ADL are 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon has | aspecting 11H of D9. 


transited DK and DKN a couple of days ago. 


Trensit Marsiage-23.11.2008 


Navamsha (spouae) 


1, waraset FY see Ana wa Zt a 
TRUITT UT MPT Ht Shs V1 WATT 
We a ae 21 aa A ae wate A 
de wa F doar ua wr sfte cer wz, at 
wh wat Tae SI AGS YE St TAT 

. FARM FIA TK Sear Ys a Ha 
aie at gfte oI 

. gen a fea foots wen aw) aq uf A area 
at @ We A wala wel fa, vale Ares 
WI Fel Sst 

. oy Ue A RR ae Oe a a Ae a 


aon Ft] 
a Ee 
Pert 


para 
=| 
a 
= 


Thee er ANS BW ET 


. WT A hee TS TA AT HT A Tae 


aX @ ate ys a fies a Ga Zi ae 
anes ot WU eta 21 


. UAW A Te A gst & HH A 


fera ye al wfad vet fa safer ae 
AIS YO aet eta 3 


. AS Ae We ated 9 Ha 5 Te oreiaie 


wen at tt fae & fel 


. ea Ye a a a ag aa @ oh aS 


waa ved dt ae Fa aes Ft YO a GT a 
Treat wg wel Aree - aacr faa & fa 


gfe a a fae 4 cheat at wh a Hecht & | geargid wa (wHe) A he Hep gor wt of 
Ban wa al wufad fal sa vane eet] we wr ZI 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ariexia st ata wa 


73 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach) 


Sat Ul Wet wit at afte - Eset F Tarst WY Waray aA areyasy at 
aware a oe 42 alk fae 8 eR ae tel UA | Gender ait Uae Taras B Ae - 


See ware wal TAT 21 went Ae a Ur at sie a wa we 
Case study 38 
Birth Chart 28-01-65 18:20:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-27.11.19891 


Im 


[ Pi [ p2 [ p3 [pa | ps | pe | p7 | Pe | 
| Intagna | V | V |jpp [pisces | 


Analysis this parameter. 

Pi MDL Venusisa natural marriage giver. ADL | P6 Jupiter transiting in Leo casts its fifth aspect 
Ketu is posited in Scorpio in D1 and there it on natal Venus posited in Sagittarius. The 
receives the tenth aspect of 7L Saturn. In parameter is met. 

D9 also Ketu, posited in Pisces, receives | P7 6 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
the third aspect of LL Saturn. PDL Saturn is Lagna and 7H. The parameter is satisfied. 

the 7L of D1 and LL of D9. In D9 Satum is |} P8 LL Moon and 7L Saturn are transiting in 
posited in Lagna and aspects 7H. The their own houses — Lagna and 7H 
parameter is satisfied. respectively. However, LL Moon was 

P2 . Chara Dasha AD is Taurus. The parameter is transiting in 7H on 14" November, thus 
not met. leading to the satisfaction of this parameter. 

P3 Jupiter transiting in Leo does not get | Observations 
connected to VS in Libra, leaving this Role of transiting Moon — LL Moon is 
parameter unsatisfied. transiting in Lagna and it activates the Lagna, 

P4 Saturn ts transiting in Capricorn, the natal | the 7H and transiting 7L Saturn. 
7H, from where it aspects the Lagna. Jupiter, Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 


transiting in Leo, casts Its fifth aspect on 7L | Saturn is transiting in Capricorn and DK natal 
Moon posited in Sagittarius. The parameter | Moon is posited in Sagittarius. Thus, there is no 
is met. Jaimini aspect between the two. 

P5 LL Moon is transiting in Cancer and it is in PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
mutual aspect with 7L Saturn transiting in| 11H/L in D9 — MDL Venus is the 5L of D9. 
Capricorn, thus leading to the fulfilment of | Ketu’s dispositer Jupiter aspects 11" lord. 


ger - 38 fora we weer aft at eee alte t1 aaa A 

fayeraar He fet Sq TH am aia at ada fie o1 

1. FeRIIY ye wad fears ar Aafiios ae Ta aay wit St-1 ar aaaer a <9 
a1 seater Sq S-1 A afkae F fea 3 a AAT ZI 


74 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arigsit st mew wa 


wetfere atte fang ama (aan darfrar gftzator ) 


Birth Chart 28-01-65 18:20:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-27.11.1991 alu 


P=] 
a aia 


a 
| 


ar. 


| 
8. WAM A TAA, SIA-3T ATat G Tar HT 
Wl Z @ 71 Wa Vass RR ved AA 14 FARR a} 
3. fae A thee at TS Te HT gen fem foae TS UA Wa 8 ISR YA MI 
wen 4 ae ae ere eT a we 2] Prtterot 
4. UA ar The wat 4 2 ot fH we Wa 21 Tet we at afer - oH a RR aH 
ae 8 a Sl ae te Tel U1 Te HT Gag Sf | aan ae Fg ae MA (eR) Bo Gray 
aq fra TAT GT A aI TA WI z1 
5. GA SRT HI Tha at waa Ha Ae antaen Ut tire wit at gfe - war a 
ak wa A ate ae Tara wa S seen | AR ax eS MA aT ag feud Sere Ge 
fren-firera area Bt ter 21 aaa a a Sita gfe ware set aa Tw 2! 
6. fae Fare Ht wer We ag feat sania waret A WETayT a starayrrareyt wT 
Um Te Uact ste Sera Fa AS Ht tan| Wan dater silt Wares wanrasiT A aes - 
RW zl Wate sent Fees Ys oy 4 2 ak ware 
7 ee es Tina at gfe vam aa Rug WZ 
Be 


Case study 39 


Birth Chart 27-01-64 22:30:00 Navarnsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-19.06.1987 


Analysis 
Pi MDL Saturn is conjunct with Venus in D1. 
Venus is a natural marriage giver. ADL Rahu 


is posited in Gemini in D1, the other sign of 
LL Mercury and there it is mutual aspect 
with LL Mercury. In D9 Rahu is conjunct 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ area at aur Ta 75 


Case Studies 


P2 


P3 


P4 


P5 


Birth Chart 27-01-64 22:30:00 


Ne ee 


with LL Venus in Pisces. PDL Ketu is posited 
with LL Mercury in D1. In D9 Ketu receives 
the aspect of both - LL Venus and 7L Mars. 
The parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha Cancer receives the aspect of 
DK Saturn posited in Aquarius. The 
parameter is fulfilled. 

VS in Sagittarius receives the ninth aspect 
of Jupiter transiting in Aries, thus leading to 
the fulfilment of this parameter. 

Saturn is transiting in Scorpio. Considering 
its retrogression, it aspects natal LL Mercury 
posited in Saglttarius. Jupiter is the natal 
7L. It is transiting in Aries from where it 
aspects natal LL Mercury. Thus, double 
transit is giving its clearance to the marriage. 
Both LL Mercury and 7L Jupiter were 
transiting in Pisces till 25" April, thus leading 
to the fulfilment of this parameter. 


Navamsha ME ZN XK 


aati 
1. Berea wi S-1 A Aafte faa ara 


2. 


3. 


76 


Wh WY 1 aera Ve a gu at 
gat uf fre F 2? ah aie 4 saat fe 
fafara 21 agit A ae dia A ae ae 
MA V1 WARK SUIT Aq S-1 4 aw qa 
hay @ wae A ag at aT YH s 
Ha STA Are at ot shee fra wi V1 
Rl ARM HH WAT feat eens ws 
al of 21 

aq fern faare Gen WAG A TER wt 
al Aaa gfe z 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Jupiter is transiting in Aries and falls to 
connect to natal Mars posited in Capricorn. 
This parameter remains unfulfilled. 

4 planets were transiting in/around Lagna 
and 7H and the parameter is not met. 

LL Mercury was transiting in Pisces — the 
natal 7H — till 25" April, leading to the 
satisfaction of this parameter. 


Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 


transiting in the 7H and it aspects Lagna. It is in 
the RK Axis. 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 


Saturn is transiting in Scorpio and it does not 
establish any Jaimini aspect with natal Saturn — 
the DK. 


11H/L in D9 — 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
In D9, ADL Rahu is posited in 


11H and aspects 5H and 5L Mercury. 


4. 


Transit NO 06.1987 


koe 
ie 
NZ | ee 
q ay 


gfran Fae at SW at awl aft a 
aro ay fers Se WAT AT We TAs 
gfe oi ware eax qe By A thee Ht eT 
ae Wl el ea we a aT 
Tel 4 ga fee oan & faare 
amt arqafa atl 

25 aida wae aaa qu a wate WE dai aT 
The Ha Yoo ait ast seh fra-fier 
al atgafa ai 


6. AT Hl Wee WS Hat Ped savas Ae a 


7. 


as Wary Fel SATO Rel U1 afera ae dar 
ae yor set eter 21 
aH a a H SNG-Wa 4 Te FI 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % aniagia ot Sear Ta 


watfas ait faarg aaa (ua darfren gfeator ) FRA wee 


8. TAT qa HI Wet 25 aie ae aa aa lake aitan 4 aA S aro aes wh a 
Hi A a, frase eR ae arses yor gem) | seer ais Mt Geary aef aa Or ta 21 


Farttarcr waist Y wera a atte yaar at 
Tet we at after - a aa a A | dander ait Wares wnrasier & Aree - 
ISR Wl V1 AS Us-hy HA UW ot 21 THe Wa Fad sHdery Ug Ww Yaa gu aT 
ane Ut wae wit ait afte - wit ar! det afte 31 ug dam at daa 21 
Case study 40 


Birth Chart 11-01-72 19:16:00 Navarnsha (spouse) Transit Merriage-06.05.1992 


pow 60.157 | 
ar Ts 
o 


PE ee PE PS Le Pr 8 | Ot tn 08 UP [Gemini 


Pv pv pv Py pv Pv Px [xy Neat [x Tv jor [virgo | 
Analysis be in mutual aspect with Satur the natal 
Pt in D1, MDL Saturn is the 7L and it aspects 7L, transiting in 7H. The parameter is met. 
LL Moon. In D9, Saturn aspects LL Jupiter. | P6 Jupiter in transit was in retrograde motion 
ADL Rahu is placed in 7H in D1 and with LL in Leo till 16° April and from there it 
Jupiter in D9. PDL Moon is the LL of DJ and aspected the natal Mars posited in 
it is placed in 7H in D9. The parameter is Sagittarius. The parameter is fulfilled. 
fulfilled. P7 Here 5 out of nine planets are transiting in/ 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is Virgo — the sign of DP. around Lagna and 7H. The parameter is 
Further, Virgo receives the aspect of UP satisfied. 
Gemini. The parameter is met. P8 Neither LL Moon is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
P3 VSin Sagittarius receives the fifth aspect of Saturn is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
Jupiter transiting in Leo, leading to the remains unfulfilled. 
satisfaction of this parameter. Observations ; 
P4 Saturn, transiting in Capricorn, is in the natal Role of transiting Moon — Moon is in 
7H and aspects not only natal Lagna but | 12H. 
also natal LL Moon. Jupiter in transit was Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


in retrogression in Leo till 16" April and | Venus, posited in Aquarius, does not get 
thus it was effective from Cancer, the natal | connected by Jaimini aspect to Saturn transiting 
Lagna, and aspecting the natal 7H as well. | in Capricorn. 
Double transit clears the marriage. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
PS On 8" May, natal LL Moon will transit in | 11H/L in D9 — MDL Saturn aspects 5H in D9. 
Cancer, the natal Lagna, from where it will | ADL Rahu is posited in 5H in D9 and aspects 
11H. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ 4nfexia at aieut va 77 


Case Studies 


Birth Chart 11-01-72 16:46:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


1. aaasel F ee we aa gt ak 
AT GAM al Sead V1 aa A als Al gfe 
ame ye a 21 saderny UE weet Hecht 
eam wade? dae ta eS 
WA WIR IIT SA AA ase FT 
AMT SR AA HS AAA Wa A sat Ge ZI 

2. WR ATM HAM SATS at St Ui B1 Shirt 
fera soa at ot sa afte fra SZ 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (0 Scientific Approach) 


Rr 
sare aa 


AVS 


fear otal 
aia | 
| 
ra fe 
a 


Transit Marriage-06.05.1992 


onl ae fa wed aS ser Ul al tar 
ail 

6. 16 aoa ae fae A aat ata A aed GHA WS 
3 ot ae at Rect A saree Ana at 
warfad fear em 

7. ae mes Ht ory da @ eae 9 AA 5 ae 
fame & fea am sik aoa aa @ ge-fire 

8. fears & fe A at a VST A OTT 
aka & aaa aft oa TI aa 10 fer Tea 
Ta UT A ST TT 


3. 4 feaa fares wen al fae So arat az | Pte 


qe at afte fir wet 21 
4. Tat ATER at el WA aera faa F 
Was Ua Wa RK at Mt sik aA a a at 


Tet ws wt after - aT ses a TA 
™% SPM 
anaes Wt treat wit at afte - ay 


aa wi ti fae Fae 16 seat cH oat on | feta aH SH vat a tht at ee OU at 
wel S Set oa ake aay al wena feat | Stet sfte vet fet or et 21 


a We 4 chet Thee a fast Ty Bal 


warst A Wea a@ ataayraa aT 


5. 8 Ag at AM Ua SH A Wat A a | Waa/deig sit Unley UaagT A ST - 
Oh at @ aaa aft a afte fata | seer wf qa A daa sa al tam z 


78 


wate ater TE daa a at aa ZI 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ariega sft aeue wa 


vitfan ait faare waa (ue darfre gheator ) 


Birth Chart 23-05-42 18:23:58 


Ter ae 


Case study 41 


Navamsha (spouse) 


| P7 | Ps | 


Analysis 


Pi 


P2 


P3 


P4 


P5 


MDL Sun is posited in the other sign of LL 
Venus is D1. In D9, Sun is posited in the 
other sign of 7L Jupiter. ADL Mercury is 
posited with 7L Mars in D1. Mercury is the 
LL of D9 and it is posited with 7L Jupiter. 
PDL Mars is the 7L of D1. The parameter is 
fulfilled. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Capricorn and it 
receives the aspect of DP Leo. The 
parameter is met. 

Jupiter transiting in Leo does not get 
connected to VS falling in Gemini. The 
parameter is not met. 

Satur is transiting in Pisces, the sign where 
natal LL Venus is posited. Jupiter, transiting 
in Leo, casts its ninth aspect on 7H. Thus, 
the parameter is met. 

No relationship is established between the 
transiting Venus — the natal LL — and 
transiting Mars — the natal 7L- at the time 
of marriage. However, till 19" April, 1967, 
i.e., less than 10 months before the 
marriage, LL Venus was transiting in Taurus 


gerd - 41 
fageraut 


Trea yt wR A aA BH at 
tf 4 aa @ at vai A ae aah TE at 
aed aft 4 2) serderna ga wate Ane 
H wae a vai A ae |e ae 2 aa 
sah WA Tas WS st 2) WIR RIT 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao «> arfaxft st aout wa 


) 


Transit Marriage-08.02.1988 


vs [Gemini | 


where it received the eighth aspect of 7L 
Mars transiting in Libra. On 28" April, 1968, 
Venus and Mars will be conjunct in Aries. 
Thus, the parameter is fulfilled. 

Jupiter in transit is in retrograde motion in 
Leo and it is effective from Cancer from 
where it casts its ninth aspect on natal Venus 
posited in Pisces, leading to the fulfillment 
of this parameter. 

5 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna/7H, thus the parameter Is fulfilled. 
Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Mars is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
is not met. 


Observations 


Role of transiting Moon — Moon was 


transiting in 7H a couple of days ago. 


Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 


Mercury, posited in Gemlni, receives the Jalmini 
aspect of Saturn transiting in Pisces. 


PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 


11H/L in D9 ~ADL Mercury is posited in 5H in 
D9 and it aspects 11H. 


2. 


3. 


4. 


ane ved ase ar ace tga ae a 
ae ere area afer fr Sz 
RK sracerany wet at fee feed earn 
Watad Ax TTI SI 

fae @ Tre Ht Ter Te fags fea foarte TEA 
a wey aal FA wT 21 

TM GS MA Sr PR Sata Te AAT 


79 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approoch) 
Sirth Chart 23-05-42 18:23:58 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Masriage-08.02.1968 


SCRPAK PK 
OSS 


UF HSNAT fe A Rw 8 a Tee a wa S wa K 
BAH Tg We oft tar get TER H fear faqs AR Vet TR AAT wel 
al oot Ht Tet @I Frtterar 

5. Fa TRS oe YR ak aa aT F Treat ae at afte - sa aH aa A 
ale faare HRT Vee Weare sel aa ter V1 | stat fron St am 
cfr faare € 10 we Feet 19 Ba 1967 aah ut treat witt at afte - fae 
awe Fay A Ma He W YH al gen SF Ae | fers eres Ga al AS Te He PW Us at 
4 atedt afte tax fra-fier feat am aft gfte fer wet 21 

6. fae @ TER Ht WS WS FA TH awed FS ENT watet A WETay a armadyrare wt 
tis fera face wen a) aan afte tax ae] dander silt Ure uenrasT A Ue - 
fran ary feat aera qa Aa F dam wa A dart faad 

7. OA ak aa S sree fare S fer 9 FS! saat wars afte 11 A a Wh 
5 7e oI a 


Case study 42 
Sirth Chart 15-07-53 02:02:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Masriage-27.04.1880 


BOM [a aD 
et 

| im ae al 
a 

| | fede fete tet | || frets 
P Pi | p2 [ P3 | pa [| p5 | pe | P7 | Pe | JuP_|teo 
Pee ea oc reamedea | ae | eer ean 


Analysis mentioned, Mars is the 7L of D1 and LL of 
P{ MDL Sunisconjunct with 7L Mars in Gemini D9. The parameter is met. 
in D1. In D9 also Sun is conjunct with Mars, | P2 Chara Dasha AD is Virgo and it does not 
the LL, in Gemini. ADL Venus, besides being connected to any of DK Moon, DKN Cancer, 
a natural marriage giver, is the LL of D1 and UP Leo and DP Capricorn. The parameter is 
posited in Lagna. Venus is the 7L of D9. not met. 
PDL Saturn receives the fourth aspect of | P3 Jupiter was transiting in Cancer — the sign of 
Mars in both — D1 and D9. As already VS - till 29" August, 1979, thus leading to 


80 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ariesit sit Soa wa 


wire sit fears wera (ue danfies gfteator) 


the fulfillment of this parameter. 

Satum, transiting in Leo, aspects natal Lagna 
and natal LL Venus. Jupiter, transiting in 
Leo, does not get connected to either 
Lagna/LL or 7H/L. The parameter is not 
met. 

Till 1* March LL Venus was transiting in 
Pisces where it received the aspect of 7L 
Mars transiting in Leo. The parameter is 
met. 

Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 
connected to the natal Venus posited in 
Taurus, leaving this parameter unfulfilled. 
2 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 


Pa 


P5 


PG 


P7 


Birth Chart 15-07-53 02:02:00 


Navamshe (spouse) 


1. Faery Fs AA Hse A aa Aa H 
wma 2 wai A ot ae ane (Afea ai # 
aA) FMT es sraceraa wr fears wr 
RH BA H sera aA sat am A ate 
ak ae Fae Hr aa At 21 VIR SET 
aft at at asferal A fears 4 A aa Are 
at afte faa wt 2) 

2. Fa MUM ae Fas ay zal at a waz 
with ATMA Hea at S rad ears 
TA SIAR AA Hh, STIG es a RIE 
Tat 4a feet at at are Fel FA eT 2 

3. Te 29 ara 1979 TH HH A St MM, Get 


IEA Ae 


parameter is not met. 

Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Mars is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
is not satisfied. 

Observations 

Roie of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Virgo. It was with transiting Mars, 
the 7L, till the previous day. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Moon is posited in Leo, the sign where Saturn is 
transiting. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL Sun is the 5L of D9 and 
there it receives the aspect of 11L Saturn. 


GW aya a arvana ae 
were wel aa TT tel #1 safe ae fas 
ae ae et 21 

5. 1 ard am Wa A wed aaa ome ae fer 
fact at Gar Ul walfes aa fas 8 ara He 
aaa Ana Hl sa ge faa Gat et 

6. 46 faa ot aet ora aaife fae feera ahax 
al Te gay fed SHH YH Sle GT 
wel TH wT 1 

7. Fa Wa Hat 2 TE aM A Va Wa GS 
arg ft) sarat sa AA A Be TNVES 
ae a zat a or ere : 

8. 7 a aa a ae aa ee a a a 
Wo ATT A AA Wa Wl 


faare wen feed 21 ga Tes a ae gol | Pritenr 


ae et srt Far 
4. foe Fae at te UA at gfe dam a 
WA UF WH us WI U1 Gia adi aR ax 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % apiesfa st Heute wa 


Treat ag at afin - wH fe wet aH 
ST ASAT Ae Hh WT WaT HT WT AT! 
anTeare ut reat ght eet afte - eRe 


81 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (¢ Scientific Approoch) 


vam fos Fo ah wit or ae i adi wee) | sores a Tate @ ok se TH UH A 
water WY Welay @ atareyrara at] at gfe 21 
Waa /Gaagt sit Une / THT A ATT - 


Case study 43 


Sirth Chart 05-06-55 16:30:00 Navemsha (spougze) Transit Marriege-27.04.1980 


im |Ve/Su/Ve 
Chara |Aqu/Leo 


s 


Aquarius 


ie ee 


Analysis P6 Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 
P! MDL and PDL Venus, besides being the connected to natal Mars posited in Gemini. 
significator of marriage, is the LL of D1 and The parameter is not met. 
posited in 7H from where it aspects the | P7 Here 4 planets, including Sun, out of 9 
Lagna. ADL Sun Is the 7L of D9. The planets are transiting in/around Lagna and 
parameter is met. 7H. The parameter is met. 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Leo, the sign of DP | P8 Lagna Lord Venus was transiting in Aries — 
and DKN. The parameter is satisfied. the natal 7H — till 27 March, i.e., a month 
P3 Jupiter was transiting in Cancer — the sign of ago. Thus, the parameter is fulfilled 
VS - till 29" August, 1979, thus leading to reasonably well. 
the fulfillment of this parameter. Observations 
P4 Saturn, transiting in Leo, aspects Lagnaa. Its Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
retrogression means it casts its aspect on | transiting in Virgo the 12H. 
7H and natal Venus which is the LL. Jupiter Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


is also transiting in Leo and it casts its ninth | Jupiter is posited in Cancer and Saturn is 
aspect on 7H. The parameter is satisfied. retrograde with it. 

P5 Till 1* March LL Venus was transiting in PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
Pisces where it received the aspect of 7L | 11H/L in D9 — MDL Venus is posited in 11H in 
Mars transiting in Leo. The parameter is | D9 and it aspects 5H. 


met. 
Sicth Chast 05-06-55 16:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Marriage-27.04.1980 


82 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arte st aw Ta 


vale oft fare ana (ua darhre gftcaiter) Tet ser 


Gert - 43 fae arate SA AT a fren-fera 
fayerrut ae Fa AWTS Ht apis t Tt ett 


1. 


za ye fare a ae EA HS aera] «6. fee wi re We fhe fered Grecia are A 
ae wae tet aa a aa 2) aaa) as Ge eT TAT TET 21 

wi wae Rect a wee dt sofa] 7. qi waa 4 ge TT ae Hh ee firg BI 
faare @ feu eared st edtefa 21 8. Uh We Wet 27 ad aH Ay A wed wa 
— aren fee St 8 wei fers sae Te | wT I A eA aa a yf fear aT 

a wench aaa fears ot srqafa ee @1 | Prien 


. Te 9 29 Smet 1979 cH aH RR Ta feat TR weg at often - aa een af 124 


wet fase wen fera 21 Ta A zl 


. fee Fee ae Se af at gfe aA REI Brena UT Trae vif ait afte - <RTTH 


art Tt S ERT Sey aa Ta a aM | We eH Ae ok fee Woke a we awl UA va 
wep at it yrfad fear ye an Tret ot adt | wafad Hem 21 

2 ak seq waa wa We aan afte Sef ga waigt A Hea A are yaa aT 
WE F eg Wea sel ay aa ZI Ua Ta sit Wee /TeTaST A Way - 


5. Veet ard dae He A wed Ga AM YR A Were UH Fa & 11a sa A fea Bax 
daa a gfe Ste wt 21 
Case study 44 
Birth Chart 24-11-53 15:35:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Martiage-09.12.1979 


| Pi | p2 | Ps | P4 | ps5 | po | P7 | PB || ot | 02 | 08 | 


Analysis P3 VS in Aries receives the ninth aspect of 
P1 MDL Saturn is posited in 7H with 7L Venus Jupiter transiting in Leo, leading to the 
in D1. ADL Rahu is poslted in the sign of fulfillment of this parameter. 
Saturn which is thus associated with 7L | P4 Saturn is transiting in Virgo, the sign where 
Venus in D1. PDL Jupiter aspects LL Mars, natal LL Mars is posited. Jupiter is transiting 
7H and 7L Venus in D1. In D9, Jupiter is the in Leo from where it aspects the Lagna. The 
7L and is in mutual aspect with LL Mercury. parameter is satisfied. 
The parameter is fulfilled. P5_ Till 23" November, i.e. a little more than a 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Sagittarius and it fortnight ago, 7L Venus was transiting in 
receives the aspect of DK Jupiter, posited in Scorpio where it received the aspect of LL 
Gemini, and UP Virgo. The parameter is Mars transiting in Leo. The parameter is 
met. met. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aries st fore Ta 83 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (0 Scientific Approach) 


P6 Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 
connected to natal Venus posited in Libra, 
leaving the parameter unfulfilled. 

P7 3 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is met. 

P8 Neither LL Mars is transiting in 7H nor 7L 
Venus is transiting in Lagna. The parameter 
is not met. 

Observations 
Role of transiting Moon —_Moon is 

Sirth Chart 24-11-53 15:35:00 Navamsha (spousa) Transit Marriage-09.12.1979 


KOK KPACHINZASAL- 


EERE! 


transiting in Leo alongwith LL Mars in RK Axis. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Jupiter, posited in Gemini, receives the Jaimini 
aspect of Saturn transiting in Virgo. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — Both — MDL Saturn and ADL 
Rahu — are posited in Capricorn in D9, where 
they receive the aspect of 11L Mars also MDL 
Saturn is aspecting 5H & PDL Jupiter ts posited 
in 5H. 


Gerd - ame are A gfe tat fra fre aI ae 

Fareraar (| fart ary fem 

1. Fe TA a Eset Se AT a A) 6. whee Ss aS aT ael gen fed SERIA Uw 
Tea Yr S ae Hel aden we | | a at wey aa a eT? 


al uf 42? faa as a Ted were a 
Gat V1 S-1 F WRK BIT Te AT ATT 
& we dt waa at dt ta wa zt 
wai Wag wad ae 2 ok am qu a 
sont afte fara @1 att: ve aS WI TE 


7. wi wat 9 A 3 Tel AR ae 


@ aa-wea 21 


8. UR Ae a TAA YER a UH-get F 


en ee 
TH zl 


ary eta 2 


2. HR oy et fey fet <r WE] ae ag at afte - aa ae ana 


ait wen ferd sre al afte fra el! |e fee BS at ae-sq at | ot 21 
Sek eee aRrana ut treat wit at afte - fre 
SIA WT #1 


fed ahr Te WR ae fed wee i at 
4. TR Uf Hen Ae wei aA AT fea Stitt gfe 21 
ta fie Qa ae yea ge ae) gar A ug a ade aT 
@1 ee The ert Fel rat Bary a Ge cat A Geet A 
zl ara we a ue qa Wwe 4 et fa H 
5. frre A Uh Tears Veet 23 THR ah GLH | wares ra St cfte 21 a daa ar te ware 
a ted EE UTA Um al fee So are AT | at yer cea Te Ga A at 2 


84 Guide Shri K.N. Rao & aniasit st aoc wa 


watfita ait faare waa (war darhren gheater) Ter sea 
Case study 45 


Sirth Chart 07-05-74 19:30:00 Nevamsha (spousa) Tranait Marriage-22.11.1997 


[DOM [22.11.1067 | 


Analysis PS Both - LL Mars and 7L Venus ~ are transiting 

Pi MDL Mercury is posited in Aries — the other in Sagittarius. The parameter is satisfied. 
sign of LL Mars—in D1. ADL Rahuis posited | P6 Jupiter, transiting in Capricorn, does not 
in Lagnain D1 and in D9 it is being aspected aspect natal Venus posited in Pisces. The 
by 7L Saturn. PDL Saturn is conjunct with parameter is not fulfilled. 

LL Mars and aspects 7L VenusinD1.InD9, | P7 4 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
Saturn is the 7L and it aspects LL Moon. transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
The parameter is fulfilled. parameter is unfulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Pisces and it receives | P8 7L Venus was transiting in Lagna till end- 
the aspect of DKN Virgo. The parameter is October, thus satisfying the parameter. 
met. 

P3 Jupiter transiting in Capricorn aspects VS in | Observations 
Taurus, leaciing to the fulfillment of this Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
parameter. transiting in Leo and it is in RK Axis. 

P4 Saturn is transiting in Pisces — the sign where Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 


natal 7L Venus is posited - and aspects 7H. | Moon does not receive the Jaimini aspect of 
Considering the retrogression of transiting | Saturn transiting in Pisces. 

Saturn, it aspects the Lagna as well. Jupiter PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
is transiting in Capricorn from where it | 11H/L in D9 —~ MDL Mercury is posited in 5H of 
aspects 7H. Double transit clears the | D9. 

marriage. 


Birth Chart 07-05-74 19:30:00 Nevamshe (spousa) Transit Mariage-22.11.1997 


Pen fet | 
i 
ea 
raf 

raf 
| 
| 


a 


85 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing oJ] Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


gett - 45 call 
fagerrat 5. CAT He a ATA Ye oy A tent frer-faers 
1. FRI GY wares A aa ATA at RX el 
aad af a5 dd) adea we Fa seit) 6. Gat aT TR We a feed Seca Us at 
eam dé ad aa A se Tae a at yaaa wet XO Tet 2 
afte 31 WRK aa wht a AT a aa) 7. at waa 4 we oma ak aS aR 
@ ak AAA YH W saat gfe 2) sai a FR AM ATS W A 71 
wid Baa slat a aa at tea Vl ae | 8. Sa | sid aH BA YH A 
AIS AM Ste BI we Ta Fa aS Al Teh fT aT 
2. ay Aa at wan fer arene | Fret 
Tae A wats wep faare wt arqafa et Tat we at afer - aaa fee ufe 4 
3. Fat I het We guy fer fase wea at | Ugag aa Kel 
ww wT zl SRR Ut treat wit at afte - dH a 
4, A Wnt ea a a eae Satara | ISR we UA St Sat gfe errr aa St eT 
aaa Ye We 2 ak aan al ta wal 21 | fee ow eet 21 
FHA H BRT wht as Al Mt wsfaa Hx LET Warst WH ETE @ ate yaa aT 
21 Fat A SR TI We aa a at ta we | Gan /dader aie Uaraer/ Taras A ATT - 
21 gafee det ther 4 fare et aqafe ver | aera qu dan oa Wy fer 21 


Case study 46 
Birth Chart 20-06-57 19:29:00 Navamshe (spouse) Transit Marriage-22.01.1980 


POB |Dethi _| 


[Dom 22.01.1980 
[chara ir Scorpio 
DK [Jupiter _ 
DKN [Capricorn | 
fei [| p2 [ps | pa [ps [| pe | pv | pa | [o1 [o2{o3| lup_|Pisces 
V_| [DP |aries 
Analysis Taurus, leading to the fulfillment of this 
P1 MDL Mercuryis posited in Aries— the other parameter. 
sign of LL Mars—in D1. ADL Rahuis posited | P4  Saturnis transiting in Pisces — the sign where 
in Lagnatn D1 and in D9 itis being aspected natal 7L Venus is posited - and aspects 7H. 
by 7L Saturn. PDL Saturn is conjunct with Considering the retrogression of transiting 
LL Mars and aspects 7L Venus in D1. In D9, Saturn, it aspects the Lagna as well. Jupiter 
Saturn is the 7L and it aspects LL Moon. ' fs transiting in Capricorn from where it 
The parameter is fulfilled. aspects 7H. Double transit clears the 
P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Pisces and it receives marriage. 
the aspect of DKN Virgo. The parameter is | PS Both- LL Mars and 7L Venus— are transiting 
met. in Sagittarius. The parameter is satisfied. 


P3 Jupiter transiting in Capricorn aspects VS in | P6 Jupiter, transiting in Capricorn, does not 


86 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ariesfa st aur Wa 


witfrr oft faare ana (ua daha gheaier) SRI sea 


Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Leo and it is in RK Axis. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 
Moon does not receive the Jaimini aspect of 
Saturn transiting in Pisces. 

PACofMDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 11H/ 
Lin D9—MDL Mercuryis posited in 5Hof D9. 


ar 
e 2: 


aspect natal Venus posited in Pisces. The 
parameter is not fulfilled. 
7 4 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is unfulfilled. 
7L Venus was transiting in Lagna till end- 
October, thus satisfying the parameter. 


2 


@ 


Birth Chart 20-06-57 19:29:00 Neavamshe (spouse) Transit Martiege-22.01.1980 


RP 


NOAA VEN 


- 46 


§ 


5. we Te fas F awl stat waHr a ara AT 
WS ASA qu Hl deaenz fren-feers HT TT 21 
1. FORINT FY aa ¢ aK A AMAT Ae St] 6. Tat AS aH Ta a ot er 2 wet STA 
gfe fra wt twa A qu ara e ak) ana fem di ew we Fe IS A da 
wae eo ge Hae Awe] zl 
WaR QI ype fase a Aafia ara| 7. yf aia hac 2 ve aa-aem @ ee_fired Z, 


i 


eA S Haran was wa A dard at zara a 
se wag ye at gfe oft fra wi gi ae 
mags yor eta 21 


. OR ara Gian Hl eRe Fa (Aa) 


a aprge (9) al she fret wet 21 


. fae 8 abet ae wer Te gen fea face TER 


WH alg ef vet Seat W tet ZI 


. Ut ar thet ee A et a AT Ie 


fera 21 sant sfte wan aa UW ot a) fas a 
ISK We St gfe aH wW 21 aet Ae HT 


fae ae ude da-o ate 4 fire ot 
Wat ZI 


8.17 Saat ade AAT Ge A ea STR HH 


sa wes Hl ye feat 
Ter as at afrat - asm faa @ fa 


am A en aet sree asc Tl 


areas Ut Treat wrt wat afte - wy aT 


The Han AS wet SRR Te 21 


waret A agTas a@ aad errr at 


fast Fat ry] St RET ZI Wan/aaae ait Waray / Tas A WT - 
HAMA AA FST HT WHTGRTT ZI 
Case study 47 
Analysis mutual aspect with LL Mars in D1 and 


Pi 


MDL Rahu is posited in 7H in D9. ADL 
Venus, besides being the significator of 


conjunct with 7L Jupiter In D9. The 
parameter is fulfilled. 


marriage, is the 7L of D1. PDL Moon isin | P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Pisces and it receives 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % aries st aut wa 


87 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Birth Chart 23-12-30 14-03-00 Navamshe (spouse) Transit Maniage-07.01.1958 
DOM 07.01.1956 
ara 


DK_|Venus___| 
DKN [Cancer 
uP [virgo | 
IDP | Sagittarius 


the aspect of UP Virgo and DP Sagittarius. Leo from where it aspects natal Venus 
The parameter is satisfied. posited in Scorpio. The parameter is 
P3 Jupiter, transiting in Leo, aspects VS satisfied. 
Aquarius, leading to the fulfillment of this | P7 5 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
parameter. Lagna and 7H, satisfying the parameter. 
P4 Saturn is transiting in Scorpio — the sign | P8 LL Mars was transiting in 7H till 3 January, 
where natal 7L Venus is posited. Jupiter, leading to the fulfillment of this parameter. 
transiting in Leo, aspects Lagna. | Observations 
Considering the retrogression of transiting Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
Jupiter, it is effective from Cancer — the sign | transiting in 7H. 
where natal LL Mars is posited — and aspects Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — 
natal 7L Venus posited in Scorpio. The | Saturn is transiting in Scorpio — the sign where 
parameter is met. DK Venus is posited. 
P5 LL Mars was transiting in Libra till 3'¢ January PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
and it was aspecting 7L Venus, transiting in | 11H/L in D9 — MDL Rahu is in mutual aspect 
Capricorn. The parameter is fulfilled. with 5L Saturn and ADL Venus is posited in 11H 


P6__ Transiting Jupiter is in retrograde motion in | - aspecting 5H - in D9. 


Birth Chart 23-12-30 14:03:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Martiage-07.01.1956 


ae TAA TS H My V1 a we det aa 

faare at aqafa 2 @ ZI 

1, Fey UE aH wa A V1 aaera| 2. ae seaden He al Ham feos saa ak Hy 
Wee aa UAT att) WRK I SRT fera armag amet efte tax fears & maH 
al ae ane at gfe fea tad aa a] 0 TT RA 


88 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ anfasia sit Sop Wa 


witfaw ait fare ana (ua danfre ghee) Ter ae 


3, fae fer thee ae Ha 4 fee fears Gen | 7.9 FAS Ue Vee SS a ZI 
ta we 8. AA Are 43 waa de A Wa HR TR 
4, Ufa a Tee ofan Fe wei a Eset a ae Fa oy feral 
wae yp feed 21 fee at at wafad eee | fritter 
eS ee er ‘ Three weg wat afer - aT aa Aa A 
TI zl | 
5. TAM Ara 33 wat ae ge A wd wa anteates Ut thar wh wt afte - ahaa 
Tat eR eS TTA Ye wt fea-faers | Aone eed wea a cee YE H SW a a1 
are afe t <b iti watst W WeTayt @ ate aT 
6. fee SR at ae Te A gam feed | daaydade aie ware Taras A WaT - 
Serna Ys Hl Waa BSE sa aS Hl | Here WE St Gad wh a ge fara gad 
yet fara aR Ye 1a sa A fers 2 
Case study 48 
Birth Chart 03-02-60 05:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Masriage-22.05.1999 


[Dom |22.5.1080 | 
vim [Sursaive | 
DK [Moon | 
DKN [Aries | 
uP [Capron | 
[DP cco | 


Analysis . transiting in Taurus. The parameter is met. 

P1 MDL Sun is posited with 7L Mercury is D1. | P6 Jupiter, transiting in Taurus, does not aspect 
ADL Saturn is posited in Lagna with LL natal Venus — posited in Sagittarius — leaving 
Jupiter in D1. PDL Venus is a natural the parameter unfulfilled. 
marriage giver. Further, Venus is posited in | P77 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
Lagna with LL Jupiter in D1 and it is the 7L transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
in D9. The parameter is fulfilled. parameter is fulfilled. 

P2 Chara Dasha AD is of Cancer and it is 1-7 | P8 LL Jupiter is transiting in Taurus and by the 
axis with UP Capricorn as well as with 7L beginning of July it will transit in Gemini — 
Mercury. The parameter is met. the natal 7H. The parameter Is fulfilled. 

P3 Jupiter, transiting in Taurus, aspects VS in | Observatians 
Virgo, leading to the satisfaction of this Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
Parameter. transiting in Lagna. 

P4 Saturn is transiting in Lagna — where natal Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK — DK 


LL Jupiter is placed — and aspects 7H. Jupiter | Moon, posited in Aries, does not receive the 

Is transiting in Taurus from where it aspects | Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in Sagittarius. 

natal 7L Mercury posited in Capricorn. PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 

Double transit is favourable to the marriage. | 11H/L in D9 — ADL Saturn is posited in 11H in 
PS Both — LL Jupiter and 7L Mercury — are | D9 from where it aspects the 5H. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao  ariexia st our Ta 89 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approach) 


Sirth Chert 03-02-80 05:30:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


fran fae az @ I 
fayeror 6. TER BI TS (ges A) aq A fer wari 
L. Fee et amaset FY wee qu F Ue al wafad ael wx UT we 21 gale ae 
ma ¢ dt sare wh a A oe eS Ames Ur] At ete 21 
ma 2) fase ar Jaffe ore ed ea ye] 7. es aad 7 ve A a a oreTe Aha 
RIM Yn oa A a eS H ay zt at ae Bat art wenfa 2 z 
Ta a aaa ot tsa ae dal cea! 8. gay A abet Ht WT IMT Ae ge AGS AT 
faare aah A wars 21 WW vet wea 21 
2. Re ARM aH a wa wHt A saqae ai | Pte 
wae qu feert stat a AIS Hl YT HL Treat ag wat after - aacr faore a fea 


@ zi wa Fa 
3. Fay PTR HW We aH gfe wen fea SRR Ut Tiree fr wat afiz - AH fer 
face FEA WH 21 SR ASAT OK a A hae He We al als FT 


4. UiPt ar Te a Oe 2 eT IT TS sh feera | Sr gfe 21 
2) gut fera That We went fed aaa gy water WY Weray a aradyraa aT 
TR Sie Stent Det ae S fsa al ary] | We deter six wenreer/ Tara S Bray - 
Rt WI BI arg wif qa & 11a ara A dane vied 
5. AAT Te a aT gy Fae A up wa war! qa at ta TI eI 


Case study 49 


Birth Chart 06-08-70 15:00:00 Navamshe (spouse) Transit Marriage-01.12.1981 


Dom [or.12.199% | 
DK Venus 
DKN [Aquaria 
[_P1 | p2 | P3 | P4 [ P5 | Pe | P7 | Pe | lUP__|teo | 
DP |Capricom_| 


90 Guide Shri K.N. Rao & anfesit st aout Wa 


witfts ait fare waa (war darhrer gitcator) 


Analysis 

P1 MDL and ADL Rahu is being aspected by 
LL Mars in D1 and in D9 Rahu is posited in 
Lagna. PDL Venus, besides being the 
significator of marriage, is the 7L of D1 and 
in D9 itis in mutual aspect with 7L Mercury. 
The parameter is met. 

Chara Dasha AD is of Gemini and it receives 
the aspect of DK Venus posited in Virgo. 
The parameter is satisfied. 

Jupiter, transiting in Leo, casts its fifth aspect 
on VS in Sagittarius. The parameter is 
fulfilled. 

Saturn is transiting in Capricorn from where 
it aspects LL Mars posited in Cancer. Jupiter 
is transiting in Leo from where it does not 
get connected either to Lagna/LL orto 7H/ 
L. The parameter remains unsatisfied. 

LL Mars and 7L Venus were transiting 
together in Leo till 21* August, thus leading 


.P5 


Birth Chart 06-08-70 15:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


quer - 49 

fagerrat 

1. Ferns FF aH Ase A aa qy A 
WY & a sara wa a A aA Ae 
we 21 farare at Taft caren Bld EU WAR 
WIT Up a A a Te aH a ze at ae 
Tae wT aA at V1 ga ae del aera 
fare aa Foes 21 

2. RAM HH A AAA wat AF sage sik 
Seer ae a 

| 

3. FUT TAR at WS Te al sfte Ga fea 

fare Wea HR zl 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao @ oniesit sit aout wa 


TEM seat 


to the fulfillment of this parameter. 

Jupiter is transiting in Leo from where it 
does not aspect natal Mars posited In 
Cancer. The parameter is not met. 

6 planets, including Sun, out of the 9, are 
transiting in/around Lagna and 7H. The 
parameter is fulfilled. 

7L Venus will transit in Lagna from 27" 
December. The parameter is met. 
Observations 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Virgo — the sign where natal Moon 
and natal 7L Venus are posited. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 
Venus posited in Virgo does not receive the 
Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in Capricorn. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 
11H/L in D9 — MDL and ADL Rahu is conjunct 
with 5L Mars in D9. 


P7 


P8 


Transit Marriage-01.12.1691 


4. ST BI TR a HS At ATA TS A fers 
@1 gay fora ara We Fa fea ae gy 
We ofte Seat Tet The S fas Hl AT, 
PT TT Zl 

5. WAT TS A STANT FI Gay A UH Te WHt 
fra fact az ZI 

6. TR Sl Te (AeA A) ag A fer wari 
Ue wl wataa vet at oT wer 21 Fafa ae 
mS TP] ael etat 21 

7. Fa Wad 7 We A a a & TTS hh 
Bart art wena ee ZI 

8. FIT A WA He El AT TS art Gs 
wes 8 fag At yeast etn at fH ase a 


91 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


eae qa @ frase ae ads aU adi | eRe aa Wag A eee SOU at a 


TAT 


Friern 


aft fe at 2 
watet A aerey a atddyrata ar 


Theat ag at after - usr frase & fer | daa deder aie wareer/uaragiet A Were - 


a 42 


Sea WA AM SF 11d wa A aswt wad 


anata Ut Wer wf at afte - ay fer | ag A te we eI 


Case study 50 


Birth Chart 08-01-36 14:42:00 Navameha (spouse) 


Analysis 


Pi MDL jupiter is posited in the other sign of 
LL Venus in D1 and in D9 Jupiter is in mutual 
aspect with 7L Sun. ADL Mercury receives 
the fourth aspect of 7L Mars in Dt. In D9, 
Mercury is being aspected by LL Saturn. 
PDL Venus, besicles being the significator 
of martiage, is the LL of D1 and it is posited 
in Lagna in D9. The parameter is met. 
Chara Dasha AD is of Libra ~ the sign of 
DKN. Further, Libra receives the aspect of 
DK Saturn posited in Aquarius, which 
happens to be the UP also. The parameter 
is fulfilled. 

Jupiter, transiting in Leo, does not get 
connected to VS in Gemini, leaving this 
Parameter unsatisfied. 

Saturn is transiting in Scorpio — the natal 7H 
— from where it aspects not only natal LL 
Venus but also Lagna. Jupiter is in retrograde 
motion in transit in Leo. Thus, it is effective 
from Cancer from where it aspects 7H. 
Double transit clears the marriage. 

LL Venus was transiting in Aquarius till 4” 


P2 


P3 


PA 


P5 


92 


Transit Marriage-07.02.1956 


Kottayam 
Dom [07.02.1956 | 


vu 


< 


0 
Gemini 


<j)9 


DK [Satu 
DKN |ubra | 
uP [aquarius | 
DP [Cancer | 


February and there it received the fourth 
aspect of 7L Mars, transiting in Scorpio. 
The parameter is met. 


P6 Jupiter is transiting in Leo and it does not 
aspect natal Mars posited in Virgo, leaving 
the parameter unfulfilled. 

P7 4 out of 9 planets are transiting in/around 
Lagna and 7H. The parameter is not met. 

P8 Neither LL Venus is transiting in 7H nor 7L 


Mars is transiting in Lagna. Thus, the 

parameter is not satisfied. 
Observatians 

Role of transiting Moon — Moon is 
transiting in Sagittarius and it was with 7L Mars 
in RK Axis in Scorpio — the natal 7H — till the 
previous day. 

Aspect of transiting Saturn on DK ~ DK 
Saturn is posited in Aquarius and it does not 
receive the Jaimini aspect of Saturn transiting in 
Scorpio. 

PAC of MDL/ADL with 5H/L and/or 11H/L 
in D9 — MDL Jupiter is the 11L of D9. ADL 
Mercury is the 5L of D9 and it is placed in 11H 
from where it aspects 5H. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + apfext oft aout wa 


watt ait faare ara (wa dare gfizator) 


Birth Chart 08-01-35 14:42:00 Navarnaha (spouse) 


ofran @ Isr Ee ware Ate A age gfe 
sreret fren fart Bt ad Bt WF feat am 
1. FERN FE aA YR A eed uf Ae | 6. fee ar ah Ye ST fees Sai He a 
safe vate Faerie ga a eR gfe fafa) | ee vet eT oT eT a 
a order ga at aes aa st aes 988478 HI sk ams 
gfe fra wt 21 Faia A qe ae Ut st STA 21 
gfe 8 yee cee ue ad Tae ik| 8. fears BG Gee a at eT Uw aT TR 
gad sit qain Bo ama W fer 31 safe ae aA RH a sit a St aaa Are FI THI 
mes Aet A Stet 2 safay ae aes YW zat ee 21 
2. at Here Gen A aRareH Taig fers 2, aie | fertteror 
au fers aeeren wh a tse we gfe 21] ee eg at fren - sa aT ee ay a 


Hy sae tt ei a1 ae we fea ved gitaa FY aerte da S aes 
3. fade Haber ae war We fae fier fare wen | VET BAK 
a alg cary Fel TTT TT el antares Ut thet wit at aie - 4 


4. fia ar eR ofan aft wean ara B at war] fea sere Uh ee gran a a & UA aT 
ai ei a ae ae Ue Foe A a at | Bt fee ae eI 
au Tl Zi amet We fae a The we aE of waret WY RETaRN @ areqrderarea aT 
awe 2 wan aa wt teat det the F | adage oft career earagieT A Wea - 
fasra Ft ary at TT 2 ABRRIANY We Aa H UHRA t a aad 
5. Ue Un 4 wad dH BU A og ake ga | TY aaa erat 11a a 4 fee zi 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aria st sou wa 93 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Appraach) 


Cha pter -4 
e e 
Additional cases 
Case TOB Vi Chara 
Say] 2° finns) FOB [ts] © | oom | outta | Seana | vs [OK ox] uP | oP | 
[-s1_|ox05-1964| 10:48 | Dam [Aqua Aries | 26-06-1961| Ma/Salvu | CanVi | Sag |Ven|Anes| Capn| Libr | 


[frase oan [ow os nan anno ews [ta [wr 


[33 Joscn-tesa| oaas | Dathi_[ Sagi | Cane [02-02-7080] suitorve | LeaiAau | Ad [Mar] tao | Sear] Libr 
[4 Jo2-07-4967] 06:65 | Delhi [Canc] Leo [0504-1092 | SuSalMa | Pis/Gam | Fis [ven] An_[Gem| Tau | 
[55 ]12-04-1952] 06:50 | Catouta | Arie | Scor [04-05-1080] SaNMa/Sa | CanfAgu [ Libr [Jup]| Are | Tau | Leo | 
| 56 [12-08-1959] 23:05 | Mumbai_| Arie | Canc Lib/Cap | Cap | sat | Gem | Tau | Gem 
[37 [15-06-1960 
fat fron as] [uw | x [rosso sane vers [sven co [cm] 
fra on | Sing [oo | uw [ovarian] acon [ts ne] cw | sn | ve 
[60 [20-07-7953] 44:40 | Kanpur_| Tau | Can [03-12-1070 Kelluidu | PisiSeg_| Cop] Sat] Sco | Sag | Tau | 
[et [23-02-1951] 2000 | Sultanpur | vir | Aqu Mar Vir 
18-11-1967 | Ra/Sa/Mo | Cap/Sco | Sag |Moo} Cap 
13:46 | Madras | Can | Sco |26-08-1991| Ra/Sa/Su | Pis/Tau | Pis | Jup| Cap | Sag | Pis | 
| 64 [17-06-1956] 15:16 Lib | Cap | 15-12-1979 Ari [Sun| Lib | Cap | Sag | 
[os [5-12-1961] 1645 | Agra | Tau | Can 
loess | HB [uw | se evan] aman | Aa [own] tw | [te 
Sea Gane | An [Sun] Gap | Vir | Aa 
[es [16-12-1957] 03:46] Dain _| ib | Aqu [17-05-1980] Rate | AquiSag | Leo [Mar] Can | Pis | Gem| 
| 69_|14-08-1961] 06:10 | Dethi_| Can | Sag [09-07-1980] Ma/Ra/Se] Pis/Vir_| Tau | Sat} Cap | Lea | Cap | 
[ Behi_| Leo | Seo [21-07-1992] RarVelSa | CopiSca | Tau|Mer| Lib [Can | An 
[Gateuta | vir | Pie 27-07-1068] Meiduive | CapiSco | Sag [Ven] Cap | Ari | Cap 
[Lucknow | Seo | vir | 18-17-1967 | Me/MaiMe| Cen/rau { Sag | Sat| Cap | Aqu | Can 
73 | Bhagalpur| Sag | Ari [27-04-1957] Su/SwMe | Lib/Sag | Tau|Ven| Pis | Pis [ Sag | 
[Simla | Sag [ Gem [03-02-1068 Sun 
18:45 Agu ip 
| 76 |03-08-1962] 16:30 | Lucknaw | Sag | Can Gem{Ven| Cap | Sco 
[New Delhi{ Ari | Tau |04-02-1980|Ve/Ma/Mo| Lib/vir_ | Aqu [Mer 
| Delhi | Lib | Lib |04-02-1980 Cap | Sat| Tau | Cap | ari 
An | Sag_[190%-1956] JulRa’Sa | LeoiSeg | Ari [up| S00 | Cap | Sag 
[20 [ra-19-1075| 
| 81 |14-07-1936 | Eluru | Aqu | Cap [04-01-1956 Tau |Ven| Can [ Pis | Ari 
[a2 |12.0%1962) 07:40] Datni_| Pis | Sag [17-04-1092] RarorMe| Can/Saq | Sag [Mer] Lib | Sag | Can 
AgulTau 
[24 [10-09-1982| 01:29 [Bangatoro| Gem | Pis {30-04-1080 Vir [Mo | Pis | Cap | Leo 
[a5 [23-02-1053] 19:55 | Nurpur | vir | Aqu [06-03-1980] Saieisu|| PisiCan | Pie | Sat| Sco | 
[86 Jos-11-1062) 25:50] Deni _[ Cen | Cap AriGer | Lib [Ven] Can | 


94 ; Guide Shri K.N. Rao & arfesit at aout Ta 


S6 


11M Buojy 
YN ‘HE 
ZL uy Buony 


BD ckbeth Ike babi g» ORY "N'Y LYS aping 


N 
co 


«© | 
IS 


wo }co 
~~ I~ [XS 


w | 
6B IX 


~~ iwi 


KR 


ES cass Ee SESE SES 
pe tp [eta] o | 


11 um Buoy 


11 Buyoadsy | A 


a ae 


(Cinyeayd sehyiite seh) phe Bib) Mie AbYIbe 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


sey] P08 linn FOB ta] oe | oom | patna | Sana |S [OK [KN UP | oF | 
[ar [or-o-7o67| 13:30 | Dani | Sag | Seo [14-02-1085 malsuNve | virco [oan Jun] Aau | Vi [Agu 
Fae_|14-12-1966] 20:00 | —Dathi_| Can-| Leo [10-05-1092] Rau | PiGem | Sco [Ven] Gem| at | Pie 
[a9 [16:00-1955] 14:05 | AWwar | Sag | Gan [09-12-1979] Verke/Ve | LibfCan_[Cap|ven| Cap | Tau | Seg} 
[90 fra-r2-105%] 2325 | Srinagar | Leo | Vr [20-17-1070] Juke/Ma | UbrLeo | Tau | Mo | Li 
[-91_Jor-04-1955| 22:25 |Atahabad| Seo | Sag 28-11-1979] vu/SalSe | Cave | is [Mer| Aqu 
a2 [r205-072| 1650] Dai | ub | an |11-08-2000|warRata | CaprSco_| Lao |Mer| Ta 
Tau [Mer| vir | Pis_[ Seo) 
Fo4_|03-06-1056] 15:5,| Gwaar | ub | Sco [26-07-1980] SaiRarve | Aquivir [Can | Jup| Leo | Pis | Leo 


r 


bo Dal 
© 


11 
1 


[95 _[02-08-1967| 05:40 | Nagel | Leo rari | 
96 4-05-1968) 22:02 | Ai Mer Cap 
Deihi_ [Gem| Pis [28-11-1979] Ra/Me/Ke | Pis/Gem | Vir | Jup| Ari | Can] Ani | 
98 [16-00-1094] 04:24 | atti | Leo | Tau [1001-1967] KerRa/Ma| LibrLeo [Gem| up| Lib | Pis | Sag | 

Vir 


Ol< 
[35 


5 
| 

oO 

® 

no] 

Q 

D2 

3 
Sa Z1S/O|> 
>/e fc ]o lo | 


[Mar | 
it | Gem AriTau Ai 
Delhi | Sco | Aqu Leo/Aqu | Aqu | Mei 
Jommat [qu dup | Tau 
Madurai [ Can | Aqu | 14-09-1979|Me/Me/Ma| Pis/Pis | Ari 


[90 Jor-04-1976] 00:76 [Fandabad| Sco | Lib [17-04-2008] RealJulsu [Gam/Cap | Pis [Mar] Lib 
i Ub 
27-01- 


ola 
® 


> 


Nellore | uib | Tau L2o | Sat] Leo | Fis | 
Delhi Gam] Sat [Can | Cap | Aaw | 
Guitack | Can | Cap [29-07-1968] RalJura | TaulSeg | Sco [Sat] Lib | Agu | Sco | 


Q 


ap | Cap [26-04-1002 MenalNla| Ub/Gem | Vir [Jup| Cap | Lib | Ps | 


08 [oe-07-1963] 16:70 Dati | Seo | ib [25-04-1092| JurSaiRa | Gemivir | Sea | ven] Sag | Aau | Can 
Delhi_| Gan | Sea | 12-02-1090] VeiSa/ve | AquiAsi_| Sag [mon] Tau | Aau | Sco | 


Dati | Lib | Cap [06-11-1091] vervetdu | Saori | Sag] up| Tau | Can | Sea | 
Daini | Can 


8 


Dain | vir | Yau_|16-12-2000| Ve/SalRa | Sag/Aau | Soo [Sun] An | Sag | Vir | 
Ludhiana | Tau | Ani [06-07-1962] Jurke/Sa [Sag/cem| Sag] Sat| Ari | An | Vir_ 
Dairi_| tao |_Vir_|28-05-1980| JuMe/Sa | Lib’Sco | Ani [Sun] Cap | Vir | Leo | 
Benaras_| Tau | Can 
F118 [25-05-1061] 06:35 | Gwator | Tau | Leo |06-05-1092| RanveiNo| Scoltee [Gan |Mer| Lib | Lib | Pi | 
119 04:30 [ Lucknaw | Ari | Tau |04-05-1992| Ra/Su/Ke |Gam/Gem| Pis |Mar| Lea | Vir | Lib | 
120 Rewari | Vir | Pis |26-11-1070| RaMalRa Sco/Aa_| tb [Mer| Li 

Jaipur | 
: Sco | Vir Gem/Sag | Sco [Man| Can 
115 [_Dehi_| Asi Sag [Ven] Tau 


9 
124 |08-12-1940| 20:30 ety Leo |18-08-1968| Ve/Ve/Mo | Pis/Sag | Ari | Mer 


a Tau [Mon] Gem] Tau | Aau | 
07:19| Delhi | Leo 04-05-1992 | Me/Sa/Sa | Sco/Vir [| Can| Mer] Tau [ Sca | Ari | 


| 


4 
c 


4 
3 


[Delhi _| 
| Deihi_| 
[|_Dathi_| 
| Faridabad | 
[_Deihi_| 
[ Sultanpur| 
[|_Deihi_ | 
[_Jorhat_| 
| Madura_| 
[Nellore _| 
|_Dethi_| 
| Cuttack_| 
[| Dethi_| 
| Dethi_| 
[| Deihi_| 
|_Delhi_| 
[|_Dethi_| 
| Patna _| 
[ Ludhiana | 
|_Deiri_| 
| Benaras | 
| Lucknow | 


a 
o 


nN 


Fo) 
i 
6 
cn 
an 
o 
a 


8 | 
o 
Ss 


> 


Cap_ [0202-1068 | JutMe/Ra [GamiTau | Sag | Sat| Can | Avi | vir | 


= 
Nn 
a 
o 
m 
Ls 
a 

J adN 
° 
oe] 
un 
o 
(9) 
< 
S 
a 
o 
° 
p= 


96 Guide Shri K.N. Rao  ariesta st om Wa 


aftftea Fem 


vatfre atte fears wea (Ue aarhren gheator) 


me Pe fe fe a > 


4 


SSeS nee 7 amass 
es 
PT sepetra ct YT 


ee 
FAY 2 GR 2 
p* | sane __{ x { v__ 


a 4 4 4 

~ i a a 
0 >| o « x 4 a Slalf oy oy o D s 
5|€/2/§|2|z|2 2\z/21s/2/2|3 $|2/2/z| s/2/ §/2| S/zlz/s/2i</Slz|s 
o e|r|o : =| QIN| + om & S{xc|a|r] a ~19[rl2 © 
= als 5 BI ISIS a a Acie JA}B}j}w]/4 als 3 2 

2 < < < 


SS CB 
Ee es 
a ee a ee Res 


HM 
dee 
ate 
et 


v 
v 
V 
Vv 
: 
v 
v 
v 
_ 
co 
oh 


89 
90 


97 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao ¢% aria si Su wa 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


sicy| 08 |nw,| FOB | ten | oe | oom | oetha | basta | vs [oxox] ur | om | 
[2s [ponetoca] 20-15 | Dan | vir | Agu [12-06-1082] RarRatlu | AnlUb Sag |Sun] Sap | Leo | Cap | 
[+29 [20-10-1960] 16:05 | Punch | Pie | can [02-12-1904] sufvwSa | LeorLeo [Gem|Sun| Lib | Lb | Sco 
[131 [31-07-196i] 06:23 [Dati | Can | cap 20-00-1979 Cap 
[Meer 

19 | Dehi_| 


feu [16-11-98 [20 
Vir [07-02-1980 Ari [Mon{ Cap | Li 


136 |31-08-1962] 07:35 | Patna | vir [ Ari 
al 07:50 | Deni | 


oo 


Pe ed » 
uso no] 


27-04-4980 Tau 
[aa_|27-04-1960| MofvelSu | Lib/Teu [Cen |Mer| Pis | Leo | 
| Lib [08-12-1979] Ju/JuSu | Leo/Tau | Sco | Jup]| Tau | Leo { Cap 

04-09-1960] Saldu/Ra | AuarTau | Sco Sun] Li 
| Seq | 


3 
139 |o9-11-1960] 08:45 | Solan [ Sco | Sag | 28-11-1979 Aqu | Jup | Gem | Sag | Tau 
140_ [02-07-1960] 17:15 | Bhiwani | Sco | Sap_[06-05-1992| Ra/MoiNle | LeovL.eo [ Sag]| Ven] Cep | Sag { Tau | 
141 [17-10-1945] 13:35 {Allahabad | Cap [ Tau [18-11-1967 Tau {Sun| Lib | Gem] vir 
F142 [40-08-1962] 16:10 | waonut_[ Sco | Agu |10-11-1979] VerVerRe | Aviteo | Sco |Mer| Tau | Leo | Cop 
143 }23-09-1952] 23:18 | Ujjain [Gem] Lib ]21-04-1968| Sa/Su/Mo | Pis/Ari | Lib [Ven] Lib | Pis | 
| Sag | 


= 
g)5 


144 [11-11-1960] 11:00 Cap [ Aqu | 16-051980 Ani [Ven] Ari | 
03.09.1902 | Melsa/Sa | Aua/Tau | Seo JJup| Ub | uib | Pr | 
[16 [22-02-1958] 10:00 | Deini | Ar_| Can [22-01-1060] Keie/Sa | Gemivir | vir [Sot] An | Tau | A | 
Paar |12-12-1964 08:28 | Naziva | Cap 9-10-1991 verRanve | ViiSaq [Cop [ven] Cen | Leo | Sco | 
| 148 [19-09-1965] 11:45 | Dethi_| Sco | Sco [27-11-1991] Sa/Sa/Sa | Leo/Sco | Tau [Sun] Cap | Lib | Pis | 
[149 [os-1i-1930] 04-11 | etawan | vir | Gem [18-07-1056 | VeiMoiNa | SegiGem | Cap [Mer| Sco | Sag | Vir 


18:0 |"Yfean) | S20 | Ue _[os.ot-1868] versanmo| unio | cap 
20-08-1991 Mon| An Ub | Pi | 


| 159 [15-11-1960 rg | peini | Lib | Gem | 15-01-1992] Ra/Ve/Sa | Tau/Cap | Pis | 
| 154 [o4-12-1960 04:30 Cap |04-05-1980 | Ra/Ve/Me | Sag/Cap | Pis | 


2 


co [1602-1968 


sg 


[iar fo2.08-1986| 20-10 [Dats | ris | Sag Agu ve 
00:13 | Indore | Pis_| vir | 16-12-1991 RalVeia | Can/Aqua] Can | en| 


Lib | Vel 


5-02-1986 Ven| Li 
06-1986 
5-06-1956 | JwSa/Ke | Sco/Sco | Tau {Mer| Lib | Tau | Aqu | 


712-1067 | SalRamRa | SeaiPi_[Can 
1545 | Si Lib ]02-06-2004] MelJultu | AviSeg_[Can|Mon] Can | Lib | Can, 
167 |08-03-196 Can [21-11-1991 ScoPis | Aqu 


98 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ ariget sit Sore wa 


2287 An | Tau 
08:25 i 
162 07:24 Vir | vi 


163 [30-06-1935] 09:08 Leo | Ari 


7-08-1943} 03:12 | PBN" | Gem 


165 [25-06-1942] 11:15 Sco 


= 
ie 
ray 
and 
= 
oO 
a 
tei) 
= 
€ 

& 
= 
= 
) 

n 
Q 

3 

id 
> 
5. 


oe SE 


a 


Lo 

ion 
afo 
a 


oO fw 
wow [an 
= 


B 


N 
N 
Oo 
o 
= 
ar 


f=) 


[=] 


mp es 
= 
5 
3S 
i 
3 
a 
> 
3 
= 
5 


nN 


vita ait faere waa (ua dare gheator ) 


Along with 7L 


ch 


Soe 


99 


y opt ot Awe Ta 


9 
“ 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Sey] 008 |rreie| P08 [tsa] oe | oom | otshe | Stote | ¥8 [0x] om] uP | oP 
[rea [asr-1s40| case | dare | wr | vr [16-08-1005] JuNe/Sa | Parra | Sco fmer| Leo | Gap | Tau | 
F169 [26-10-1960] oF:52 | Sangrur [ Leo | Gem [01-12-1094] vufSuiMa | Sagiari [Can Mer| Can | vir | Ub | 
iT [reostaia[ 1690] Deni | Leo | Leo |10-11-1977| JuNventta | Libis [Cap | Mo | Sco | Tau | Aqu | 


[172 Jo5-02-1945| 06:55 [Alahabad | Cap | Pis_|[14-07-1080] Se/suiMe | Leo/Gem | Seq [up| Aaw [Gem] cap 
Firs Joe-o1-1964| 05:65 | Alanabad | Sag | Can |[+4.07-1080| Sa/Same| Leo/Vir | Seq |Mor| Cap | Pis |Gem| 


New 
174 |27-01-1950| 04:26 | Rochelle, | Sco 23-08-1980] Ra/Sa/Ju | Can/Sag | Can |Sun] Tau | Ari Vir 
NewYork 


75 [75-08-1966] 05:00 | Delhi Can | Agu [24-11-1907] MoNVe/Su]| PislSco | Leo [Sat] AA | Ub | Can | 
ose] Ma [aw | w [ima ama] [soo | 
: 10 


179 [63-10-1656] O40 | Jaunpur [Uso | Lib [16.06-10%2 | sumerRa | Ubi [Tau [sup] 160 | Seo | Ub | 
180 [14-12-1961] 23:50 | Dethi_ [| Leo | Sco [09-05-1987|Me/Me/Me| Cap/Lib | Vir Aqu | vir 
is aoe | sn [ un [517 save cnt [a] So] Ps [oa 
08-42-2004 | SarMarRa | CapiCap [Aqu |Jup| Sco [Gem] Vir | 
Pia [2s-04-r9se| 02:47 | Amer | Cap | Can [23-12-1084| RaiMalMe| LeofSco |Cap [Sat] Ad | Leo | Pis 
T7185 [30-08-1960] 18:30 | Kanpur | Agu | Aqu [31-07-1990] verSalve | LeoiAqu | Tau [Jup| Ar | Sco | Leo 
[a6 [20-07-1942] 18:11 | Poceteto | Sag |_An_|22-05-1066| JutulMo | vivAqu | Vr [Mar| Tou | Tau | Leo 
06-08-1955 2312-1984 
| 188 [17-08-1936] 02:05 |Lahore-Pa| Gem] Sco | 07-10-1968 Ari |Sun[ Ari | Sco | Lib 


[ret |te-05-962] 02:60 | Demi_| is |_vir_| 18-05-1091 CanfSco | ari [Ven] Lib | Seg 
192 125-01-1955] 00:41 se Lib | aqu 18-11-1979] Re/Su/Me | Pis/Sag | Sco | Jup | Can 
193 |29-05-1956| 08:42 | Ujjain [Gem] Tau | 06-12-1979] Ra/Ju/Ke | Pis/Gem | vir | Jup| Ari 


195 |19-03-1965] 04:00 Delhi Cap | Tau | 23-11-1991] Ju/Ju/Ra | Lib/Can | Leo |Sun| Lea | Lea | Sco 
ee Vir | Pis | 17-11-1991] Ra/Velve | Cap/Lib | Lib | Mo] Pis | Aqu | Cap 


Ei 
nN 


196 }02-12-1962| 01:45 


Fea" [73-17-1960] 25:30 | “Ajmer | Can | Sag [03-02-1968] MorRamMe|_ArTau [Tau [Mer] Leo | Art| Tou | 
[199 [16-04-1044] 06:40 [Alahabad| Ar_| Asi | 08-021968 [RaalMo]| Can/Pis [Gem| Mo | Cap | Soo | Leo | 


a ososse| 10m [ag | Sm] [ore vane] cm | ve [unm [ms [a 
Augastine 


[202 [03-72-7850] 16:00 |Kotkepura| AA_| Sco [30-09-1080] RavSaNVa | ConfLeo | Lea |wer| Tau | Cap | Sag | 


[20a [25-07 Fa56] 0558 [umundhur] Pie | Can [27-04-1080] sulMarou | GemiPis [Tau |Jup] Tau | Leo | Tau | 


100 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ artes st aout wa 


afaited Tet 


weitfare ait faere waa (a darfre gfzator ) 


rake iret 


MM 


Aspecting DK 
3H a 7L 
12H 
Aspecting 7L 
11H 
— 7L 
“ LL 


ee 


ms 
ze 
Ly | 


+ 
- 
o 
deuce: 


Case 
ies ears (ee ie ess eres er [eel se 
Pee PE vv TX TY fv | Aspectingths ov | Y| 
a eae eee ee 


170 
jet 
Eee 


ty 
oO 
- 


101 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao % arfasia sit Gow Wa 


Additional cases Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


Sai 008 [inwe,| P08 [tsa] 0 | oom | hs | pucks | 8 [ox mn] ve | om | 
F205 o.oo T856) 12:95 | Hatiras | Sco | Seq [2007-1680] werSuve| Viiv [Gam] Sat| Ceo | Am | Vi 
F206 [os 121659) 15:5 indore | At | Leo | 207-1060 [Maral | Geib | Sag [Mer| An | Tau | Sag) 
F206 [16-02-1859] 06:0 Weert | Pis | Con [Or05-t092] Julutke | VirSap | Lib [Ven] A] Ub | Vi 

So | Sun] Cap [Lib [Can 


7: Chandiget| em Lib }|04-10-1990] Ra/Mol 


Vi 
Sa/Ra/Me 


102 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * arias sit aout wa 


vate ait ferare ara (ua aarhra gfzetor) fete Gert 


|v | pees SOM a 

| or TX YX TT Aspectinge VY 
pee a A Sr ee ee 
rt aie eee ee aes 

2s ce<s cso oe 
Pi eco ai] 
| | 
| x | 
eae 
eal 
ae! 
ma 
evel A ee] 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & ariasta at tour wa 103 


Case Studies 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (o Scientific Approach) 


Chapter - 5 


Conditional Dasha 


Dash System 

Dasha system, basically, means ‘Timing of 
the fate of human beings based on the position 
and condition of the planets at birth’. 

Horoscopic chart, which gives the planetary 
positions at the time of birth of a person displays 
a static picture whereas the dasha adds the 
dynamic aspect to it. The promise which is 
indicated in a horoscope attains fruitions when 
an appropriate dasha operates. The dasha, thus, 
helps in timing the events. Dasha system is a 
tool unique to the Hindu Astrology. Dasha is 
either Nakshatra based like Vimshottari, Yogini 
etc. or Rashi based like Chara and Sthira dasha of 
Jaimini Astrology. Then there are dasha which 
are combinations like Kaal Chakra Dasha, where 
counting is done on the basis of nakshatra but 
the dashas proceed according to rashis. 

Our Sir, Shri K.N. Rao, bestows the title of 
“King of Nakshatra dasha” to Vimshottari Dasha, 
whereas Kaal Chakra Dasha is the “Emperor of 
All Dashas” according to him, and even if the 
degree of Moan is wrong by a second in then 
there is a possibility of huge errors. 

It Is said that Maharishi Parashar has given 
54 dasha and 
Jaimini Rishi 44 
dashas. Some 
dashas have been 
classified as 
conditional dasha 
as they are applied 
only when planets 
are positioned in a 
chart in a some 
unique style e.g. 
more then 4 
planets in Kendra 


104 


Birth Chart 23-12-02 07:23:00 


Navamsha (spouse) 


(Mandook dahsa); 10° L in 10° H (Chatursheeti 
Sama Dasha) and so on. 

Using the conditional dasha is what our 
teacher says, sending of a patient for various 
tests before the final prognosis. Our faculty 
members have worked on a few of these dasha 
systems as mentioned in 2°¢ chapter. We have 
quoted from their books the techniques of 
applying these dashas. In this chapter we present 
for you 2 examples of each of those dashas 
namely. 


i 


Dwisaptati Sama Dasha 
Chatursheeti Sama Dasha 
Dwadshottari Dasha 
Shashtihayaani Dasha 
Shodashottary Dasha. 


vveveyv 


I. Dwisaptati Sama Dasha 


Ex. | Charan Singh; (Ref. page 81 of book 
Predicting through Dwisaptati Samoa Dosha) 
DOB — 23-12-1902; TOB — 07:23 am.; POB — 
Meerut (U.P); DOM - 25-6-1925 

Marriage took place in the dasha of Sun/ 
Mercury. Sun is the ninth lord and is placed in 


Transit Marrisge-26.06.1925 


[Pi | p2_| pa | pa | p5 | pe | pv | Pe | 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & aries sit Sout wa 


valfra ait fears ana (ua agihre gfteator) 


his lagna and is _ Birth Chart 08-07-46 07:46:00 
conjoined with 
the seventh 
lord, Mercury. 
Both of them are 
aspecting the 
seventh house, 


which is the 
house of 
marriage and is 
what is 


FRI sea 


Transt Marriage-06.11.1977 


traditionally 
known as ‘Kalatra Sthan’. Sun is second lord and 
Mercury gets placed there. 
VD-Rahu/Sun/Jupiter; CD-Leo/Virgo; VS- 
Lib; DK-Saturn; DP-Gem; UP-Cancer; DKN-Aqu: 


Ex. 2 George W. Bush; (Ref. page 122 of boak 
Predicting thraugh Dwisaptati Sama Dasha) 
DOB - 06-07-1946; TOB — 07:46 am.; POB — 
New Haven CT USA.; DOM - 05-11-1977 

He married Laura Welch, a school Ilbrarian. 
Dasha was Moon/Venus/Sun. Moon is lagna lord 
and Venus Is aspecting his seventh house. Moon 
is with second lord of navamsha horoscope also. 
Moon is aspected by his seventh lord Saturn. In 
Navamsha Moon is with Second lord and 
pratyantra dasha lord was Sun, who is the second 
lord of his birth chart and is again placed in the 
second house of navamsha. 

VD-]/Me/J; CD-Cap/Lib; VS-Sagi; DK-Sat; 
DP-Cap; UP-Leo; DKN-Leo: 


ll. Chatursheeti 
Sama Dasha 


Birth Chart 11-09-68 12:46:00 


Ex. | (Ref. page 
77 af baok 
Predicting 
through 
Chatursheeti 
Sama Dasha) 
DOB - 11-09- 
1968; TOB — 


Ke Ve 
Me 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * Origa at Sor wa 


Navamsha (spouse) 


_ Ex. 1 oS Ra = Ey es 
ee aa se] a ja | Ly ad 
SuAs Ve 


[ Pi [ p2 [ps | p4 [ps] Pe] p7 | Pat {ot | 02 | 03 | 
fags oe OR 


~ Shahajanpur; DOM ~ 18-11-1995 

He got married in CSS of Mars/Venus/Sun. 
Mars is lagna lord and is aspecting 4° house 
while Venus is the seventh lord. In Navamsha 
chart Mars is aspecting fifth house, fifth lord 
Mercury and Venus Is aspected by the Lagna 
Lord, Saturn 

In Navamsha chart, Marsh is aspecting the 
fifth house and its lord Mercury and itself being 
aspected by the eleventh lord Jupiter. Venus is 
placed in the fifth house in association with lord 
Mercury and is aspecting the eleventh house. 

VD-Mo/Sat/Ju; CD-Vir/Ari; VS-Cap; DK-Sat; 
DP-Cap; UP-Leo; DKN-Ari: 


Ex. 2 Sanjay Gandhi; (Ref. page 99 af baak 
Predicting thraugh Chatursheeti Sama Dasha) 
DOB - 14-12-1946; TOB - 09:27 AM.; POB — 
Delhi; DOM - 29-09-1974 


He got married in CSS of Jupiter/Venus/ 


Transit Marriage-19.11.1995 


105 


Case Studies 


Birth Chast 14-12-46 09:27:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Mercury. Jupiter is associated with karak of 
marriage, Venus. Jupiter is also aspecting the 
seventh house from Moon and Venus. In 
Navamsha Chart Jupiter is aspecting Lagna and 
Lagna Lord, Saturn. Jupiter is also associated 


| Pi | p2 {| p3 | Pa | P5 | Pe | P7 | PS | 


Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approoch) 


Transit Marriege-29.09.1974 


with Venus in 


Taurus (fifth 
house). Venus is 
Karaka of 
marriage. In 
Navamsha chart 
Venus is 
aspected by the 
Lagna lord, 


Satum. Venus is 
placed in the fifth 
house (own 


| | St} 9? | 93 
house). 

Dasha lord Venus and Jupiter are placed 
with eleventh lord Mars in the fifth house are 
aspecting the eleventh house in Navamsha chart. 

VD-Moon/Mars/Sun; CD-Lib/Vir; VS-Sco; 
DK-Mars; DP-Virgo; UP-Leo; DKN-Taurus: 


lll, Dwadashottari Dasha 


Ex, 1; (Ref. page 35 of book Predicting through 
Dwadashottari Dasha) DOB ~ 21-08-1979; 
TOB — 03:00 am.; POB — Dethi; 
DOM - 14-01-2004 

On 14.01.2004 this TV presenter was 
married. The dasha was Mars/Moon. Mars is in 
the ascendant aspecting the 7H. Mars is the 7L 
of Navamsha. Moon is the 2L of natal chart in 
conjunction with 7L Jupiter and in the Navmasha 
Moon is placed in the 7H. 


Birth Chart 21-08-79 03:00:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


Ex. 1 


Ref. page 35 


106 


| Pi | p2 [ p3 | pa | ps | pe | P7 | Pe | 


VD-K/R/Me; CD-Cap/Aq; VS-Sco; DK- 
Venus; DP-Aqu; UP-Sco; DKN-Ani: 


Ex. 2 Naina Devi: (Ref. page 39 of book 
Predicting through Dwadashattari Dasha) DOB 
— 27-09-1917; TOB — 01:38 am.; POB - 
Calcutta; DOM - May 1935 

She got married in Saturn/Moon in May 
1935 in 7L/LL dasha. 9L and karak Jupiter is 
aspecting Sun in D/9 and she was blessed with a 
son during Sat/Sun. 

VD-]/Me/Mo; CD-Cap/Pisces; VS-Tau; DK- 
Sun; DP-Cap; UP-Lib; DKN-Ari; 


Transit Marriage-14.01.2004 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao + ariea sit Hout wa 


vatfee atk faare ara (ue aarfra ghar) Far awa 
Birth Chart 27-09-17 01:38:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Mariage-Mey-1935 Navmsha chart 
gives ciues to 
maiters related to 
spouse Venus is 
7" lord of birth 
chart and is places 
in 7 house of 
navamsha. Venus 
is aspected by 
Lagna Lord 
Jupiter. Moon is 
8" lord of 
Navamsha and placed in 4" house. This sub 
period of 8" lord shown obsticles. The marriage 
was fixed to be held in Moon Pratyanter and 
Moon Anter. This had to be postponed due to 
accident of husband in Sept till the pratyanter of 
Rahu arrived. 
Vimshottari dasha was Venus/Rahu/Mars. 
The marriage ceremony was fixed for 27" Nov 
1972 in the pratyanter of Moon. Moon is 8" lord 
Birth Chart 06-08-58 05:40:00 Navamshe al of Navamsha and 


aan oe the event had to be 
= postponed. Venus 


IV. Shasti Hayani Dasha 


Ex. 1; (Ref. page 50 of boak Shasti Hayani 
Dasha) DOB - 06-08-1958; TOB — 05:40 am.; 
POB - Lat: 26N13 Long: 78E10 DOM - 30-10- 
1983 

VD-R/R/R; CD-Lib/Can; VS-Sco; DK-Moon; 
DP-Vir; UP-Lib; DKN-Ari: 


is 7" lord of birth 
cahrt and a natural 
marriage giver. In 
Navamsha Rahu is 


eel aspected by Lagna 

SCCe Cece came cs 
retrograde aspect. 

| Pi | p2 | p3 | p4 | PS | Pe | P7 | PS | Rahu is a giver of 
| eH | Vv V Jmartiage and mars 


Ex, 2; (Ref. page 86 
of baak Shasti 
Hayani Dasha) 
DOB - 21-11-1951; 
TOB — 08:00 AM.; 
POB - Lat: 28N59 
Long: 77E42 DOM 
- 08-02-1973 
Marriage took 
place on 8 Feb 1973 
in SHD of Venus/ 
Moon/Rahu. The 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao Aria st Sow Ta 107 


Sirth Chart 21-11-51 08:00:00 Navamshe (spouse) 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach} 


is laced with 7 lord in Navamsha and aspect by VD-V/Sat/]; CD-Plsces/Sco; VS-Sco; DK- 
Lagns Lord. Moon; DP-Gem; UP-Cap; DKN-Ari: 
V. Shodashottari Dasha VD-Ma/Mo/Sat; CD-Sag/Vir; VS-Lib; DK- 


Me; DP-Tau; UP-Sagi; DKN-Lib: 
Ex. {; (Ref. page 2! of book Shodashottari 
Dasha) DOB - 
03-07-1976; TOB 
— 03:30 am.; POB 
- London; DOM - 


Birth Chart 03-07-76 03:30:00 Navamsha (apousa) Tranait Marriege-04.05.2003 


Me Su 
Va 


04-05-2003 Ex 
She was Ref. page 21 
married on 4" May 


2003 in the SSD of 
Moon/Jupiter. In 
Navamsha Moon 
is placed in 3 


Fe OD 
house with lagna 
lord and aspected 


by Rashi 7" lord Mars. Mars is also 8" lord so | Ex. 2: (Ref. page 55 of book Shodashottari 


created some trouble but no harm. Dasha) DOB - 24-01-1977; TOB - 04:06 am.; 
POB — Delhi: DOM — | 1-03-2000 
Birth Chart 24-01-77 04:08:00 Navamshe (spouse) Transit Marriage-11.12.2000 VD-Me/Ven/ 


Jup; CD-Can/Sag; 
VS-Sco; DK-Mo; 
DP-Sco; UP-Gem; 
DKN-Leo: 


SaR JuR 
Mo 


P41 p3 | P4 | ps | pe | P7 | PB |] o1 | 02 | 03 | 
4 [| v [ x] av lv px | «KY 7H oe 


108 Guide Shri K.N. Rao » Ae st meu Ta 


witfira afk fare ara (ta dathre Ghear) 


Ferd aera 


sTeaqya 5 


fafgtse aeit 


fafine <en ar yea: ef Sar Ss aaa gel | TH Gi Sa Geral S Hw sie cet Ba ena ST 
at fafa a sen S aren wag S ara a | fal a aet wa fen wh el va seas A 


aaa frazor’) 


Freifafad <nat a war 2-2 sare Ww frat 


wa ana wt eset Sat dh we sarees | ST 21 


vet ot feafa al fear aaa fer aK ont Z, 
wate am vefa eA af yen aed desc wt 
at ara aed fears vedi @, erat ofa <eeil 
FA sae wa saw wi feed Zi sa we S at 
vers & ret Pui FY ee Het S1 <a Wet 
fex airs a orga otk fafere efron @ aed 
a at fait a atfirt anfe at ae aera srenfta 
a aad & a Sat at a a fer aemal at ae 
aft smentta ot et aadt 2 fire aera Set 
amd ot 2 wet WOT at Aaa Se Ht aS wT UT 
@, far ae UR aM 


al feat ufe 1 sig 
at mera et ct arat tert et Gat ze 

Tel At wre @ fe Fetes wae 4 54 aed ct 
at Sfrt vf A 44 cmd) st ag ae ue 
amt ar wit ¢ aif 3 aera 4 as ae 
Uff Aa eA et oy Skt 31 Fae SK 
4 ae a at age om sk ae ae A al al 
Taitfe waa ar ya fen saz 

fafere <yad at yah dtm dar dt aan 2% 
aa afar Fula a ved aie at fates ae a 
wid at viet 31 ear feral 4 eat a |e ene 
jw ae fra @ faaa sects sear-2 4 fea 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * apfasfa at aout wa 


Navamsha (spouse) 


@ fgacafa sar a 
© ata Va aT 
@ geet <0 
@ oferart <0 
@ Meme am 


1, feecafa aar aot 
seer 1 aro fas (fafsteen g feat 
aa eet ar da 81 2a) 

sin fare aay am A eam gt Fae 


Transit Mariage-25.06.1925 


Ke 


sat a FA aa gu & are fea @1 aa facts 
@ WG aay Hi ta ee fre fe aaa WH eT 
wa & eT A ft arr we 21 sare A we fede 
2 ak qu sat wa Fda 21 

IQUE 2 wrt Fe (HIM THT YH ST 
aw 112 2@) 

Ser a aca a fae fer a fe wae 
Tal UES ah fase BS TAG SAM Ht TKS 
all Sl AA S SK BF VAM Wa al BE wT 
21 aa RR aT ws aT afte A 2) Aa A 
as & ae fed 21 cee ST eet A 


109 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approoch) 
Birth Chart 06-07-48 07:46:00 Navamsha (spousa} Transit Marriage-05.11.1877 SavExoT 2 ( sad 


. ey ; a TT a ys a 
asset a fede @ sik vais a eae fedta oa Wa BIH ti saat gfe A vain ae A Te 
J at gfe oa 3 ae aR I aa it gay at 
Waa aa A ae S Me YH V1 WH fare HI oH 
a Tater Fw Kae ull wt gfe U1 ae Iw 
aaa aa Foret a uf A ei cert Ue a Te 

Tas A aera 
Transit Mariage-18.11.1985 THIET Wet * 


Sra fare aH st aTeATA aM | oar 35 az") 
Ba Are sel A tat age a HI aT S| sy Stet equal #1 fears 14 BAA 2004 
ate YR Ae eo Ta A ant GaN Ae | ot ciraeen wt mer A aml Aa a A aac 
vate gy al ta were dt Ane HK UHM Te | gay qa at da wer Sah ae aie aT AAT 2 
at gfe eae Van a a date GUS a S| som fide Ga aad ye S ay aoe 
ak THM WA i BE WI eI wafer vat A ae wa wa He 


Birth Chat 14-12-46 08:27:00 Navamsha (spouse) 


4110 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * ariaia ot fore wa 


weitfea aft frre wna (a darts ghee ) 


Birth Chart 21-08-79 03:00:00 


Il 
& ay ot faae a Aafia are 21 zai A UE 
RAAT Us al aha F ENT gfe dt UE H 
faa cat 21 ana vai A ae S a St at 
sa aA at gfe ot ze 


i edi aoe A at ae waar sik 
gfe a a ae ae 


2 
=F 
4, 
: 
54,4, 


Transit Merriage-30.12.1883 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
5. ASSIA TIT Birth Chart 03.07.78 03:30:00 spouse) Transit Marriage-04.05.2003 


112 Guide Shri K.N. Rao * Ariat st Boge Ta 


sift aitx faare wae (ua daha Gieaior) 


Chapter — 6 


Observations 


The Indian Premier League (IPL) matches 
are the hot topic of discussion in all homes, 
public places, meets etc. So it popping up during 
our astrology classes was a natural phenomenon. 
In his typical humorous style sir narrated the 
episode where the world’s finest spinner and 
captain of Rajasthan Royals infused so much of 
confidence In his new comer and relatively 
inexperienced baler that he went ahead to take 
the wickets of some of the finest world class 
batsmen. This not only led them to winning the 
match it has also taken them from the position 
of under-dogs to the top of the point tally. 

In our class, during our research session, sir 
instilled in us so much confidence and aroused 
our curiosity so much that all of us started looking 
at the horoscopes with a renewed interest. This 
resulted in a lot of observations by our co- 
researchers and these are listed below: 


Observation by B. Shobha: Role of PDL, 
Moon and Rahu 
The following three observations made by 
Shobha are based on the analysls of the transit 
positlons of planets at the time of marriage, in 
107 charts. 
@ sThe first observation is about the role of PD 
lord at the time of marriage. 
In 70 cases out of 107 PD lord was found to 
have PAC connection with Lagna/LL, 7H/L 
of D1 or D9, in the transit chart. PD lord 
connecting with lagna/LL was found to be 
more prevalent. In 20 other cases, PD lord 
was observed to be near lagna or 7H, i.e. in 
2/12 houses or 6/8 houses. 
This observation, thus, applied in 90 out of 
107 cases i.e. 84.4%. 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao & urfesia st tome wa 


Observation by Arti Malick: Connection with 

Nakshatra Lords 

@  Nakshatra lord of LL; 7th L and VS forms a 
PAC in transit with Lagna, LL, 7th H and 
7th L. The results were as under — 
Nakshatra lord of 7L PAC in D1 — 75% and 
in DO — 83.33% 
Nakshtra lord of LL forming PAC in 
— 52.77% and in DO — 55.55% 
Nakshatra lord of VS the success rate was 
55.55% in D1 and 63.88% in D9. 


D1 


Observation by G.K. Joshi’s: Importance of 
transit of 7 L and Venus 

While working for the research of this book 
the importance of 7" L and Venus during 
marriage became very prominent. Hence, their 
connection with the relevant bhavas and planets 
should also be obvious. According to 
Phaladeepika— The 7® L or Venus in transit (on 
the day of marriage) is posited in the rasi or trine 
of rasi where LL is posited in D1 or D9 of natives 
birth horoscope. 

When this observation was applied In 39 
horoscopes it was noticed that it gave 100% 
positive results in 22 horoscopes whereas in 13 
horoscopes it had transited from there a few 
days ago. It did not apply in 4 of the cases. 


Exomple: DOB — 09-11-1931; TOB — 02:29 
pm.; POB — Jodhpur; DOM - 27-04-1957 

In D1 the LL Sat is posited in Saglttarius 
and in D9 it is posited in Scorpio. At the time of 
marriage Venus is posited in Arles i.e. In kona 
from Lagnesh Saturn in D1 and 7° L Moon is 
posited in Pisces which is in trine from lagnesh 
Saturn in D9. Thus thls observation applies on 
this horoscope. 


113 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage {a Scientific Approach) 
Bitth Chart 09-11-31 14:20:00 Navamsha (epousa) Transit Timing-27.04.1967 that Up Pada (UP) 
forms a relationship 
with Vimshottari 
Dasha lords as well. 
UP is the pada for 
12" H and 
significator for 
relatives. It was 
noticed that 
marriage takes 
Observation by Rishi Kapoor: Relationship of | place during the dasha of planets aspected by 
UP with Vimshottari dasha- both at the time | (Jaimini aspect) UP or its dispositor when this 
of marriage. observation was applied on 40 horoscopes, it 
During the course of research it was noticed | gave 75% positive results. 


Birth Chart 31-12-65 00:30:00 Navamaha (spouse) Transit Timing-03.07.1985 


Example: DOB — 31-12-1965; TOB — 00:30 hrs.; POB — Laningrad (Russia); 
DOM - 03-07-1985 

VD-Me/Sat/Ketu; UP-Aries; 

This person got married during dasha of Mercury/Sat/Ketu also in Scorpio. 


114 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arias at dou wa 


waiter aft faere ane (var daria gfeaitor) 


wR sear 


SATA 6 


sTactent 


wa eH & ford wd waa aa F anediuer 
(sear viniter cit) Fal we Gea Gat BI WE 
ward at wt at Fa SRT ae wafasw et om fH 
Rifas at marek A ot seer secre ela at 
qe aes F wa aed 4 aan fe faa we 
TR Tea aah Ha 4 a aw add 
facnfsal 4 sere Fa fe a wens fame ad aa 
Tm sad A had a Aa w Ag sad wa aU, 
afem ye A wad fragt agi ar are ae aq 
wiht we Ua 7 

wast & aha ean ye 4 faenfiial F gar 
afr arafararea ax fear fae oral at Gist ask 
astaat al oat fre 8 tad EU |e AM Et 
a ye 71 ae Teafiral 4 ao fafere fagat a 
nega fren, fre aet fear tar ZI 

amen a Fae: Wert <a AT 
aug at ype 

zien + 107 Hsferat A fears & fea Faraz 
wer Uta Hew Frerfafad dt fag asf fara 

Sa te fem faa mH BAA Wen 
SUIT Hh Wat Hl cen 21 

107 AMTet AB 70 A WIR SRI ST APR 
Fas Hse MAAN SH AAV BT ATA ATART 
a weary fea see Ft avast A ay aI 
wary afi feat att 20 Wael A A 
FOR RIA Wat H 2/12 A 6/8 Aa alt aA 
a AT S aaa wal F AST sa 

sa we a 107 FY a 90 aA 34.4 Ufa 
asta A ae frs TSR AM 
> aa at afer gad wa tet & fe as 

UO Hl Re We AS sat ‘Te’ 

APT SA ae MT sot sas arqata ars wt 

Hat GTS Ve ZI 
> 107 WHat AS 54 4 ats or asc a den 

weary fea a at ae a S VA MT aT 

seat gfe at faare aI waa Ua 11 aa 


Guide ShriK.N. Rao % ark st awe wa 


fen 7a wife fase F armdk w faa a 
Vira area A Sat aaa ues Bet 21 23 
amet A sa Gre aA S 12 Fe Ves A ae 
Fe VEY GAM AA Sa aI 3 Ae F 
fans & fea aa Mite HA A am 

> Fa RE AF Be 80 AMel AM 74.76 Yiawa 
asfeal a Ui a te ya AS STATI 

> 67.2 fasta ata 107 Ya 72 AAeH A faare 
H TA VE KR TS HT gfe oh ah we aT 
TM Aen Ug sera eg als fears SF ae 
at al wat ¢ ak sa unifirafa qe ar 
aritate fae wea tact 21 


sindt fern at friterot — ware a 
Aer 


> AAT, Uae ait fra GEA H AMA HI 
feufa, sf a afa (diet) wera the A 
7, A, Ss a aa A aA AW 
SRM SAH WHA FA VaR W - 

o aes & Aaa St-1 4 deel aay 75 
yfasa siz <t-9 F 83.33 vfawe 

Dag H aaa at tit aes sti 7 
52.77 Wawa sik St-9 A 55.55 wage 

o faare Fen H AAT HI ray St-1 A 55.55 
Wasa sit St-9 A 63.88 view 

Shao sie at Friemt — faa & aT 

AAA F Yow Hh WA a NET 


we Tere F Gated me ae au wa ae 
ard ae ong fe faare 4 qaraer sit are Ye TT 
fags seca ata 21 ta A ow eh a faa GS 
waa aasel & fare stat a gel @ was at 
feed vet uisa wedi 4 fram 2, “a 
asd a ane anaset a aa 8 fra ait a 
fir aa @, faore & ara thet A aad a yw 
a tf A a sae frat wat 4 eter 21” 


115 


Case Studies Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 
aq fray al Sirth Chast 09-11-31 14:29:00 Navamsha (spouse) Transit Timing-27.04.1957 


ae fre ory et Ea aa od @) oat wae fe sou ak see Ute 
sae F fare wet Eset Set on wat 2: | Shirt she a far wel wl wenfad ae F, sei Tei 
WarRSeh ar eT A oq Ue AS at Aare | ot <eatt (AIR, staan a WeaRReM) A fare 

Hae gue a 21 face waa ay A ved eal ela t 40 aster Ww sa ama ta wR 75 

Ue om aselt Fae S fret Foo a arac Fy | wfaera adit fact 

STA SAT AM A elent var A wa at feafa STEN H fru ga |S w fen a Taa 

O fram A om rai S A TS UW A ae haz | 3:- 

At Vl Ml Ad: FH Be |set W ae faq wae al fears he Ta quysfyapg at AT 


ary et are 1 fret) wet sous Ay uf A fer 2 wale HAT: 
wT AY HT Sith Chart 31-12-85 00:30:00 Nevamsha (spouse) Transit Timing-03.07.1985 
mate X= oe AS 
saqq sr 

; F 
= KEK OOK 
a bh OLS VANES 
SARA H TAF OT 


fe soag a aay fared & cara a aaa 21 | Ty ay aiean, Fut ay a ak Hy aivaw 
STE BRN Wa HT UE alate ak sae fede | Uf AS) sae A Se gfe GS wa wm dH 
Serra S Weary arg, set faa aa et WM 


116 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ area sf aout wa 


Conclusions 


The study was conducted on 218 charts. In 
all the cases marriage had taken place and the 
date of marriage and other data has been given 
along with the result of applying the parameters 
on the charts. 

The results of the research have been 
tabulated for the parameters from P | to P 8 
below. It was noted that 

@ Paramater ! [Connection of Vimshottari 
Mahadasha (MD), Antardasha (AD) lords 
with Lagna or 7H or Lagna Lord (LL) or 7L 
of D!/D9 or planets associated with them] 
applied to all the cases (100%). 

e@ Parameter 2 [Chara Antar Dasha making a 
connection with Darakarak (DK), Darakarak 
Navamsha (DKN), Dara Pada (DP), Up-Pada 
(UP) lagna or 7th lord of DI or D9] applied 
to 210 charts (96%). 

e@ Parameter 3 [Transiting Jupiter's aspects on 
Vivah Saham] applied to 167 cases (77%). 

@ Parameter 4 [The Saturn and Jupiter 
activating Lagna, 7H, LL, 7L] applied to 
186 cases (85%). 

e@ Parameter 5 [LL and the 7L of native making 
aconnection in transit] applied to 214 cases 


Cases it applied 
Parameter 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao * aright at tar wa 


(98%). 

@ Parameter 6 [Jupiter activating natal Venus 
in male charts and natal Mars in female 
chart] applied in 149 charts (68%). 

e@ Parameter 7 [Sun and/or most planets 
around Lagna or 7H] applied to 153 cases 
(70%). 

e@ Parameter 8 [LL transiting in/near 7H or 7L 
transiting in/near Lagna] applied to 128 
cases (59%). 

The above is graphically represented as ina 
chart below — 


The data can be view from another 
perspective also. We find that in 18.81% cases 
all the eight parameters applied. In 34.40% cases 
seven parameters applied. In 32.57% cases six 
parameters applied. In 8.72% cases five 
parameters applied and in 5.5% cases four 
parameters applied. If we see it in another way 
we can say that in 85.78% cases six or more 
Parameters apply and in 95.50% cases five or 
more parameters apply. This indicates how 
accurately these parameters apply to timings of 
marriage. This is depicted in Tabular and graphical 
form below. 


117 


Conclusions Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approoch) 


No. of No. of In Cumulative It may be seen that these are dependable 
Parameters | cases | Percentage | Percentage || parameters can be applied universally to all 
that apply charts. 

41 


18.81% 18.81% 


7 
1 
1 


Psx fm | arm [05.70% _ 


5 
1 
Four 2 5.50% 100.00% 


118 Guide Shri K.N. Rao @ arfaeia ait ewe wa 


Frent 


HA 218 HSterat Tae Heras fen WN TA 
wt amet 4 aed a face at gar é sik aster 
Re ag We weet H adit HB ae et faa 
at ata a ay faa ot fen war 21 

Fa apaun & adit ar frets ate ariot A 
fea 7H @ 

aera & OAs Te wren fe - 

e ads 1 (fazed Fare, see a WIR 
RIT SB AIRS A AA Hh AAPA 
FASTA A Sra Aad Wel Sara) 
at amet A ary, aml ata, 100 via Aas 
fart 

@ WMS 2 (HN ATM BI CHIH, TH 
FAM, TMI, VIE, WHS BW Aa H 
aa a aaa PT Ma) 96 Wawa aT 
at ee 210 Refer we GI TAT 

e wes 3 (faqs WEN W eR WS al fee) 
77 viawea ads @ are 167 Ae A ary 
Baul 

ems 4 Het 186 At A att 85 wha 
ada & tet 21 ga Hats A frat S aaa wha 
BTS ST Te WR VT A ATTA 
HR MTT TH ZI 


Guide Shri K.N. Rao < Aries sit Rout Wa 


e mes 5 (fra fae am ae A oat 
BS MAM FT AAT A a TAT) 98 Wha 
adsl & ae 214 asferal a AP ea! 

© WS 6 He 68 Wawa att ed EU 48 
amet A fre don sa Hees H dad YI 
Rect A ware YH W sik Gt Het F 
TAT AT WR h TS A WAST a 
sear feat 7a 

eames 7 (a ak wan S ore a a 
ae afin vel at we) 153 AMT HK 
ary gan fara 70 viata ads fact 

© AGS 8 & Ted fags H GA TEs THA I 
BSA WA A AAA HI AMT We ae Seal WaT 
ak 128 Ae WK AP Bla EU Tay Hae 59 
vara vats few 
wi frenet al ara ore at ace @ cela 7M 


wi sacl at we aa wie a ot tah a 
ead 1 See BS SK Vet aeM fee 18.81 Wawa 
astra at 8 AS eH wafer 34.00 wfaea 
amet A 7 AS Gt Sati 32.57 wHtaet wt we 
6 AMES, 8.72 Wha AME AS a 5.5 Viagra 
ma 44 aes Yi 8 aL eel AA, 86.78 
Viasat sital We SATA 6 A Baa afte AS 


119 


Conclusions Astrology and Timing of Marriage (a Scientific Approach) 


ary eta 21 ae 5 atk sae afte areset S ory | wt ae A sat a oe st nee 4 fear 7 

éh al tart aM at sa Ut 95.50 what Asie | aaa zh 

Ga seat V1 as Fe va aera z fH fest sas ga we a ae HS tal WI aad 2 fH ae 

& foots ar Ustad area Ua HA A saa Aas | sfrat w fat at craw S foots Hi aaa ad BA 

fort anaain yan feu sn aad 21 x8 Ae | @ fare ateae ores Zi et orci Safes at 
exes Sa 


120 Guide Shri K.N. Rao % ariesit sf toute aa 


