1

Astsrology



2
The Origin, Meaning & Purpose of
ASTROLOGY
Written by
Chennareddy Vasudev

First Edition  : August, 2019

Copies : 500

© Author

Cover Design , D.T.P. &
Printed at
Deepthi Technicolor Printers
Gandhi Nagar,
Musheerabad
Hyderabad - 500080
Ph: 9949703224

Published by:
SHANTHA VASANTHA TRUST
Plot No : 16 & 17, Green Walk ways,
Rajendra Nagar
Hyderabad - 500 030.
email : svcthyd@gmail.com
www.shanthavasanthatrust.org

Astsrology



3

Dedication

“Padmabhushan”  Dr. K.I.Varaprasad Reddy
Founder: Shantha Biotechnics pvt. Ltd.

Shantha vasantha Trust

The big brother to all near and dear
Who blended science and spirituality
Who is adept in arts and technology
Who “gives” to his heart’s  fullfilment

A ‘Padmabhushan’ of Indian biotechnology
A doctored supporter of arts, literature & music
A thinker & spiritual seeker of high order
An allrounder and a unique creation of god

I dedicate this book to the one who showered affection
on me like a brother and also is a cause behind the publication of
this book.

This book is dedicated to
“Abhinava Sri Krishnadevaraya”
SRI KODURU ISHWARA VARAPRASADA REDDY

Astsrology



4

INDEX

SL.NO SUBJECT PAGE NO.

i FOREWORD 5
ii PREFACE 7
iii INTRODUCTION 9
1 THE ROOTS OF ASTROLOGY 10
2 ASTROLOGY - PRARABDA KARMA 16
3 HISTORY OF ASTROLOGY 28
4 THE KNOWLEDGE OF ASTROLOGY 39
5 ASTROLOGY - THE DETAILS 49
6 ANALYSIS OF A HOROSCOPE 73
7 MARRIAGE MATCHING 86
8 REMEDIES & REALITIES 96
9 ASTROLOGY & SADGURUS 104
10 DISCUSSION ON FATE OR FREEWILL 109
11. HOW TO BENEFIT FROM ASTROLOGY 114
12 THE NATURE OF A GOOD ASTROLOGER 123
13 GOD’S EQUATIONS & QUESTIONS 128
14 HINDU DHARMA - THE PATH TO GOD 135
15 TO BE HAPPY - VASISHTA BODHA 145
16 HOW TO LIVE - A MESSAGE 153
17 KARMIC PEARLS OF WISDOM 160
18. IN REMEMBERANCE - MOTHER & FATHER 161

Astsrology



5
FOREWORD

Sri Chennareddy VASUDEV, is a retired AGM from
BHEL Hyderabad and is well known to me. Among the
people who have come closer to me in recent times, he
has a unique place among them.

His father was Sri C.K.REDDY, the erstwhile Chief
Engineer and board member of the AP electricity board of
the combined state. He was a guide and philosopher for
me. He was a person of character, dedication to work and
of a spotless integrity. His study of the scriptures and the
literature of Sri Ramana and Ramakrishna continued
throughout his life. According to me, he was a true
Karmayogi with vast knowledge.

Mr. Vasudev also inculcated his father’s qualities
of deep study of various subjects and due to some reasons,
concentrated more on Astrology, it’s meaning and
usefulness to humanity.

In this book, Vasudev tried to explain Astrology in a
comprehensive way about it’s origin, details, and finally
how to utilise this sacred subject for the benefit of all.

The method of analysing a horoscope and details
of planets, rashis and significations etc., are deliberately
kept at minimum level since that is not the primary aim of
this book.

The Philosophy of Astrology is the essence of this
book. One will know totally about Astrology after reading
this book. The origin, History, details, the complexity of

Astsrology



6
the subject, the fears and misunderstandings and in what
way we should treat and receive Astrology in our lives is
explained in this book.

I sincerely wish that people should read and get
benefited by this book.

I thank Mr. Chennareddy Vasudev for affectionately
dedicating this book to me.

(K.I. Varaprasad Reddy)

Astsrology



7
PREFACE

I am Chennareddy VASUDEV, and my father, who is no
more, is Mr. C.K.REDDY who was chief Engineer and then the
board member of the erstwhile APSEB, the electricity board of
the combined A.P. State.

I studied BE from Mysore University and joined the BHEL
(Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd) at Hyderabad and retired as AGM
in the year 2015.

My mother way back in the year 1971, made me to study
the Telugu Biography of “Swami Vivekananda”. Since then, I got
hooked to reading like a fish to water and the reading went on
touching various subjects.

It was in 1991, while working in BHEL, that I went into a
confused state of mind about life, due to severe ill health, heavy
job responsibilities, and money fluctuations etc.,. I did not get
answers to any of my questions. That state of mind led me to the
study of Astrology.

I got hold of the subject to some extent due to the study of
various books (classic and modern) and also due to practical
applications by studying various horoscopes.

The first major benefit of the study and assimilation of the
subject was the understanding of my own life and resultant clearance
of certain illusions about my life. I could get the insight that few of
the events which appeared as defeats, were in essence blessings in
disguise.

Astsrology



8
Dr. B.V.Raman’s books were my initial guiding lights. Then

my reading extended to classical and modern literature of Astrology
both in Telugu and English languages. It finally got extended upto
the K.P. Astrology literature. Whatever today I am, with respect
to the knowledge and awareness of Astrology, I sincerely believe
is the result of the blessings of Adi Yogi Sri Dakshina Murthy and
Maa Saraswati.

Till my retirement in BHEL in 2015, I could guide my friends
and aquiantances in the horoscope results and suggest remedial
measures to get over the problems. I sincerely followed a rule that
I should not get anything from anybody in return.

Presently I stopped studying horoscopes due to the
psychological burden experienced, in the process.

Astsrology



9
INTRODUCTION

What is Astrology? How has it came into existence?
How is it useful to humanity. This book is written as an
answer to above enquiries. This is a study of the basic
philosophy and usage of the subject of Astrology.

The planetary and bhava significations and the study
of a horoscope are briefly explained. But elaboration is
avoided since this book is not meant for analysis of
horoscopes. If one has to learn it, immense number of books
are already available.

This book is aimed at understanding of the roots of
Astrology, basic elements, the history of it and finally as
how to utilise the knowledge in our lives. Puranic and fiction
stories were added wherever needed to aid the
understanding.

There are lot of fears and misunderstandings
prevalent in society about Astrology. Hence if we study
the subject from the roots and turn it as a useful instrument
in our lives, all illusions would be cleared and we would be
benefited.

When we avoid going to the Astrologers for each
and every problem, gain true wisdom, do our duty, and pray
the lord with pure mind for guidance, we shall surely get
the direction for solving our problems. The purpose of this
book shall be fulfilled when everyone becomes self
sufficient in facing life.

Astsrology



10

1. THE ROOTS OF ASTROLOGY
The Cosmos, with all its galaxies, planets, stars,

earth, trees, living beings  was created 300 crores of years
back. The creation was supposed to be with “BIG BANG”
scientifically.

Since the beginning of the existence of human race,
man has been fascinated by Nature and its mysteries. On
one side he contemplated on the meaning of nature, cosmos
and the purpose of existence. Deep meditation was practised
by many thinkers, yogis and rishis, continuously.

On another side, man, in the pursuit of progress and
prosperity, went on exploiting nature. These two main
functions were going on continuously and parallelly through
out the history of mankind.

Gradually man has become aware of the
environmental destruction he has been causing over
centuries. Due to this awareness, corrective measures are
in progress, like search for alternative energy sources etc.
Man is presently hoping to achieve a balance between
progress and usage of resources and achieve a sustainability
level of life so that we can hand over a good sustainable
Earth to future generations, which is their right.

The other group which was involved in the study of
nature, scriptures, shastras in the mode of Guru Sishya
parampara was active from 5000 BC to 1000 AD in the
Indian sub continent. This was the time when other
continents were involved in wars and settlements.

Astsrology



11
In the process of their study, concentration and

meditations, enormous amounts of spiritual and scientific
and medicinal literature was developed, more than half of
which was lost during the destruction of Nalanda and
Taxshila Universities and also of places of study and worship
like Somnath, Mathura etc.

This destruction was caused by invaders who
conquered INDIA from 900 AD to 1800 AD (Afghans,
Moghals and the Britishers)

When the Maharishis were in deep meditation at
exalted and altered states of consciousness, the knowledge
received in an “Aparoksha” manner from the creator in such
a condition were the “VEDAS”.

Initially the VEDAS were revealed as a single “Veda
Rasi”, but at successive times Then the son of “Parasara
Maharshi”, Sri VYASA, who is considered as avataar of
VISHNU, divided the Vedas for the benefit of the people
of Kaliyuga. Since that time he has been called
VEDAVYASA.

After the division, the VEDAS have become 4 in
number, as following,

1. RIG VEDA
2. YAJUR VEDA
3. SAMA VEDA
4. ATHARVANA VEDA
This knowledge was received directly from

“BRAHMA” by the elevated “Samyamana” state of mind of

Astsrology



12
the Maharishis. Then this was taught to the disciples with
“Swara” which is important while learning VEDAS. Since
“Swara yukta pathanam” was a must, reading of written
words were not encouraged. So nobody recorded them in
writing in ancient times and hence the VEDAS were called
“APAURUSHEYAS”.

The end portion of all the ‘VEDAS’ have
“Upanishads”, which are the essence of the spiritual
knowledge contained in VEDAS. That is why the knowledge
of the “UPANISHADS” is called VEDANTA. Many
upanishads were lost and finally a total number of 108
upanishads are available today. Out of this, the most
important 10 were selected which are called
“Dasopanishaths”.

The ten Upanishads are
SL NO NAME  from
1 Aitareya Rigvedam
2 Katha Krishna Yajurvedam
3 Taittiriya Krishna Yajurvedam
4 Eesavasya Sukla Yajurvedam
5 Brihadaranyaka Sukla Yajurvedam
6 Kena Sama Vedam
7 Chandogya Sama Vedam
8 Prasna Atharvana Vedam
9 Mundaka Atharvana Vedam
10 Mandukya Atharvana Vedam

Astsrology



13
VEDANGAS are the ANGAS or parts of VEDAS

which are essential to study and understand the VEDAS.
They are as follows.

VEDANGA THE PART OF VEDAPURUSHA
1. SIKSHA THE NOSE
2. VYAKARANA THE FACE
3. CHANDASS THE FEET
4. NIRUKTAM THE EARS
5. JYOTISHYAM THE EYES

(ASTROLOGY)
6. KALPAM THE HANDS

So, Astrology is given the status of the ‘EYE’ of the
Vedapurusha. As human eye is the most important part of
the human body (“Sarvendriyaanam Nayanam Pradhanam”)
similarly Astrology is the most important part of the Veda
angas.

Astrology explains things of past and present and
throws light on the future to instill action and wisdom, for
the mortal human beings.

What Vedas say about Astrology is as follows
SLOKA:
[ÆÁzuo ∆ÁÀfi™ ™“Á úÏãÆ™ ünÆN˛…Æ™uú \yuƒo™
YÊ¸ÁN˛Á| ÃÁu mÁ{ ofiÁ Ã{oÁ À™ÁoÁ|ut ÃÁáå™ @
ÀƒÆÊ ÀƒÆÊ ßÏƒÁ Àú…bÊ YN˛∆Ï∫ßÓo™ tuƒ\ã™åÁ™
ƒztÁÊTÁ [ÆÁzuo ™ §¿©“Ã™™ ƒzt{uƒ|uãúo™ @@
(JYOTISHA SHASTRAM, MAHA PUNYAM

Astsrology



14
PRATYAKSHAMAPI JEEVITHAM
CHANDRARKA SAKSHINOU TATRA SROUTA
SMAARTADI SAADHANAAM
SWAYAM SWAYAM BHUVA SPASHTAM
CHAKSHUR BHOOTAM DWIJANMANAAM
VEDANGA JYOTISHAM BRAHMA SAMAM
VEDAIRVINIPNATAM)

Meaning: The Astrology is sacred, directly revealed. SUN
and MOON are the evidential entities for Astrology. It is
the basis and an instrument for Sroutha and Smartha Karmas.
It is an ‘eye’ to the VEDAS and is the root of all subjects.

Astrology truely is the root of all subjects. All
subjects in this visible and non visible world find a place
and explanation in Astrology. We can say that what does
not exist in Astrology does not exist in the world.

With deep analysis of horoscope, we can assess a
person’s health, financial, social, psychological and spiritual
aspects and also decide the remedies if required. It is said
in shastras that ‘MAN’ is made as a microcosm representing
the cosmic macrocosm. This is the fundamental basis of
Astrology.

A man can perform the actions thought over and
decided by him. But what to think and decide, strangely is
directed by FATE. Exactly here, the “Karma Sidhanta”
operates. The decisions influenced by our intellect are
actually the karmic results of the actions of our past lives.

Hence Astrology unfolds the actions and results as
per the horoscope which is decisively fixed at the time of

Astsrology



15
birth and which is the result of a complex equation based
on past Karmas.

ÆtÏúuYoÁ ™ãÆ\ã™uå ∆ÏßÁ∆ÏßÊ oÀÆ N˛™|m: úÊuO˛™ @
√Æã\Æuão ∆ÁÀfi™zoo o™uÃ ¸√ÆÁum tyúÁ FƒÁ @
(YADUPACHITA, MANYAJANMANI,
SUBHAASUBHAM TASYA KARMANAAH PANKTIM
VYANJAYANTI SASTRAMETAT
TAMASI DRAVYANI DEEPA IVA)

Meaning: This subject is throwing light on the items in
the dark area revealing the good and bad results of the deeds
done in the past.

uƒáÁfiÁ u¬uQoÁ ÆÁ ÃÁ{ ¬¬Ábz q∫™Áu¬Nz˛ @
t{ƒrÀoÁ™ úez ¸ÆO˛™ “Áz∫Á uå™|¬Á YM ÏÃÁ @@
(VIDHATRA LIKHITA YA SOU LALATE KSHARMALIKA
DAIVAGNASTHAM PATHEDRYUKTAM HORA

NIRMALA CHAKSHUSHA.)

Meaning: The ‘DAIVAGNAS’ are studying clearly the
‘Brahmas’ writing on the forehead with the help of the
“HORA SHASTRA”.

Astsrology



16
2. ASTROLOGY - PRARABDA KARMA

Man had been encountering certain basic questions since
time immemorial. The questions like,

Who are we? Where from have we come here?
What is the purpose of coming to Earth?
Before birth where were we?
Does nothing remain after the mortal death?
What is the meaning of life between birth and death?
Why grief and happiness? What is our control?
Food, cloth and shelter, not for everyone why?
What is our true responsibility in life?
What is the God’s intention for us?
WHAT TO THINK AND
HOW TO LIVE?
The answers for all such intriguing metaphysical

questions can be found in the vast spiritual literature of
INDIA.

The sacred “UPANISHADS” which are called
Vedanta, impart the essential wisdom about human life, the
equivalent of which can be found nowhere in the world
literature. The knowledge and wisdom contained in the
“Prasthana Traya” elevates human mind and imparts total
clarity about life and after. Following are called the
“Prasthana Traya”

1. Brahma Sutras
2. Bhagavad Gita

Astsrology



17
3. Upanishads
To understand the truth in an easier way and to make

it accessible to vast majority of common people, the
Puranas and Itihaasas were given by the great Rishis. This
process aided the spiritual upliftment of common man who
neither can access nor can understand directly the essence
of Vedas and Vedanta.

The “Ramayana” gifted us with the eternal “Yoga
Vaasishtam”,

The “Mahabharata” gifted us with the eternal
“Bhagavadgita”,

And “SriMadbhagavatam” enabled us to understand
Godhood and the path of Bhakthi.

Now, we shall see, what was said about human life
in these sacred texts.
Sloka (Bhagavadgita 2:27)

\ÁoÀÆ u“ áwƒÁz ™wnÆÏáwƒÊ  \ã™ ™woÀÆ YÁ @
oÀ™Át úu∫“Á∫Æzzsz| å nƒÊ ∆ÁzuYo™“|Ãy @@
(JATASYAHI DHRUVO MRUTYURDRUVAM

                        JANMA MRITASYACHA
TASMADA PARIHARYERTHE NATWAM

SOCHITA MARHASI.)

Meaning: Death for the born, and birth for the dead, is a
must. For the one who died without self realisation, for
him rebirth based on his past karma is a must. Hence you
should not grieve for such an essential cycle of happening.

Astsrology



18
Sloka (Bhagavadgita 2:22)

ƒÁÃÁÊuÃ \ym|Áuå ÆáÁ uƒáÁÆÁ åƒÁuå T¿“åÁuo å∫z ú∫Ámy @
onƒÊ ∆∫y∫Áum uƒáÁÆÁ\ymÁ| ãÆÁ√ÆÁåy Ã©ÆÁuo åƒÁuå tz“y @@
(VASAAMSI JEERNANI YADHAA VIHAAYA
NAVANI GRAHNATI NARO PARANI
TATHAM SAREERANI VIHAAYA JEERNA
NYAVYAANI SAMYAATI NAVAANI DEHEE.)

Meaning: Just like a man replaces torn clothes with new
clothes, Jeevatma discards the aged and wasted bodies and
wears new bodies.

If we conclude based on the above two slokas, the
man who is basically a jeevatma (a spirit) had been entering
different bodies since ages and has been thus repeatedly
visiting the earth.

So, the body is provided to the jeevatma for actions,
experiences, improvements, suffering and in an overall way,
for evolution. To go through the results of past good and
bad karmas, we have taken birth repeatedly as per karma
cycle.

If the past account of actions becomes zero, the
jeevatma does not find the need to don another body and
goes to the ‘LORD’ for the purpose of jeevatma Paramatma
Samyogam. This is the final emancipation or “MOKSHA”.
How this is happening is given in a Sloka
Sloka: (Bhagavadgita 2:51)

N˛™|\™ §ÏuÜÆÏO˛Á “y ¢˛¬™ nÆO˛ƒÁ ™uåu åÁ
\ã™§ãáÁ uƒuå|™ÏO˛Á út™ TÄÁãoÆÁ å™ÁÆÁå @@

Astsrology



19
(KARMAJAM BUDHI YUKTA HI PHALAM

TYAKTWA MANISHINA
JANMA BANDHA VINIRMUKTHA PADAM GACHA

GACHANTYA NAMAYAAN.)

Meaning: Sri Krishna in GITA has given assurance
to humanity about the result of complete surrender to him
which is proven by great souls and which is a great boon to
all of us.
Sloka (Bhagavadgita 18:66)

Ãƒ|á™ÁEÁ}|å úu∫nÆ[ÆÁ ™Á™zN˛™ ∆∫m™ ƒ¿\Á
E“ÊnƒÁ Ãƒ|úÁúz•ÆÁz ™ÁzqF|≈ÆÁ™y ™Á} ÃÏYÁ @@

(SARVADHARMAAN PARITYJYA MAMEKAM SARANAM VRAJA
AHAM TWA SARVA PAPEBHYO MOKSHAISHYAMI MAA SUCHAH.)

Meaning: While engaged in nishkama Karma and
bind the lord to the Antahkarana and surrender completely,
Sri Krishna promised to destroy all our “Sanchita Karmas”.

This is a wonderful assurance by lord Krishna.
Because by the time the prarabda Karma (present life) ends,
even the Sanchita Karma ends, then there is no pending
Karma and there is no need for rebirth and we only reach
the lord after life’s end.

Now, let us understand the types of Karma as
propounded by Rishis in Sanatana dharma.

The reason for the birth of every human being is the
result of the past deeds in the previous lives. For the bad
deeds, one experiences grief and for the good deeds, one
experiences happiness. Shastras have explained that

Astsrology



20
PAROPAKARAM IS PUNYAM

AND
PARA PEEDANAM IS PAPAM

The results given in the present life as prarabda
Karma, are the results of a complex equation extracted
from previous births. It is not a point to point result, nor it
is only taken from previous birth. Sanchita Karma of all
lives are considered and the karmas which are ready to
sprout are selected and fixed as prarabda Karma. Now we
shall see what are these categories of Karma.

There are 3 types
1. SANCHITA KARMA----- PAST TIMES
2. PRARABDA KARMA----- PRESENT LIFE
3. AAGAMI KARMA ----- FUTURE KARMAS.

1. SANCHITA KARMA: These are the sum total
of all accumulated KARMAS from all the previous births.
These are basically in a seed form.

The Sanchita Karmas including from the immediate
previous birth are considered and the Karmas which are
ready to sprout are together set aside as “Prarabda Karma”.

As explained earlier sincere life with “Antakarana
Sudhi” and bhakti towards GOD will help us gradually
destroy the Sanchita Karma seeds.

2. PRARABDA KARMA: This is the Karma set by
the lord for the present life. This is the “Karma” indicated
by the Horoscope. which is prepared at the time of the birth.
The results of prarabda karma unfold in the flow of Maha

Astsrology



21
Dasas and Antar dasas of the Horoscope.

As per the Shastras, the prarabda karma can not be
changed. The horoscope reveals whether it is a yoga jataka,
avayoga jataka or a mixed one. This depends on whether
the soul entered the body predominantly to suffer or
predominantly to enjoy fruitful results.

For the difficult situations of the prarabda Karma,
remedies can be performed. The details are discussed in
the concerned chapter.

The prarabda Karma in a horoscope, is represented
by the 6th bhava, it’s lord and the Karaka Sani who is a
Karmaphala data.

3. AAGAMI KARMA: All the good and bad actions
we are going to perform till the end of the present life are
called “Aagami” Karmas. The results are added to the
“Sanchita Karma” before deciding the prarabda Karma of
the next birth.

The planets influence us and instigate us for negative
actions. But wisdom as a weapon, we can counter such
forces and abstain from doing any negative actions. This
may be difficult and easier said than done. But it is not
impossible. Like this, all Aagami Karmas can be made
positive. This is in fact is the benefit of the knowledge of
Astrology.

Negative EVENT is inevitable
BUT

Negative Action is a Choice

Astsrology



22
Let us see what Shastras say about the prarabda

Karma.
Sloka:

¬¬ÁbÁ u¬uQoz ∫zQEÁ úu∫™Á…bãY ÃMooz
“u∫åÁuú, “∫zåÁuú, §¿÷åÁuú ÃÏ∫{∫uú @@

(LALATA LIKHITE REKHA PARMASHTANCHA SAKTATE
HARINAAPI, HARENAAPI, BRAHMA NAAPI, SURAIRAPI)

Meaning: The writing on the forehead can not be wiped
off, even for HARI, HARA, BRAHMA, devataas also.
Sloka (Bhagavadgita 18:61)

F|æÁ∫Á Ãƒ|ßÓoÁåÁÊ ”wÒz∆z∫\Ïå uo…buo
ß¿Á™Æz Ãƒ|ßÓoÁuå ÆãfiÁ∫ÓjÁuå ™ÁÆÆÁ @@

(EASWARA SSARVABHOOTANAAM
HRUDH ESERJUNA TISHTATHI

BHRAAMAYE SARVA BHOOTANI
YANTRAA RUDHANI MAAYAYA.)

Meaning: Parameswara stays in the hridaya sthana of all.
He only under maya runs the machinery of body and mind
to fulfill actions as per the nature and Karma of individuals.

Why it is not so easy for anyone to escape from the
so called “Karmabandham” is well explained by another
sloka from Gita.
Sloka (Bhagavadgita 18:60)

ÀƒßÁƒ\zå N˛Á{ãozÆÁ uå§ÜtÁ ÀƒzåÁ N˛™|åÁ
N˛oÏ|™åzÄÁÃy Æã™Áz“N˛u∫…Æzuúoo @@

(SWABHAVAJENA KAUNTEYA NIBADHAH SWENA KARMANAA
KARTAMNEEHASI YANMOHATKARI SHASY NISO PITAT)

Astsrology



23
Meaning: With attachment to near and dear, what  you do
not like to do, even such acts with your ‘Kartrudharma’ you
will be made to do.

In conclusion of all the above, we can say that no
one can escape the results of the prarabda karma. As already
mentioned, when events are inevitable (which we can not
alter since they are part of the prarabda karma) Our
reactions and further actions can be kept in our control
with the help of our intelligence, ego control, analysis and
wisdom.

To indicate that karma results operate in a subtle
but sure way, there is a DOHA in Hindi which is apt to quote.
Here it is.
DANE DANE PE LIKHA HAI KHAANE WALE KA
NAAM,
DENE WALE NE LIKHA HAI LENE WALE KA
DAAM.

Even the ‘Shastras’ emphasise that the prarabda
karma results happen surely in ways we can not normally
comprehend. There are two puranic stories explaining such
prarabda karma realisations which are very interesting to
read.

Astsrology



24
STORY 1.

The Episode of “NARADA”
Once, the Brahma Manasaputra, the Maharshi Narada

was walking on a sea shore on Earth, singing the glory of
Sri Maha Vishnu.

He observed that a “human skull” was lying in the
dirty waters in the sea shore. He lifted it and with his “Yoga
drishti”, read what was written on the forehead. It was written
that there is finally “Brahma loka prapti” for that skull.

Narada was taken a back. That means his fathers
(Brahma’s) writing has not come out true. He felt happy
that he got a good example to show to his father and enjoy
a good “Samvadam” with him. Infact he was waiting for such
an opportunity since a long time.

He took the human skull carefully to Brahmaloka,
submitted it to Brahmaji and explained where he found it.
Then he asked that he wanted to know why the writing on
the forehead is not compatible to the final position of the
skull.

Brahma replied “My Son! This man was a normal
human being without any speciality. He also died miserably.
But due to some secretive and compelling reasons, I had to
write “Brahma loka prapti” for his skull. And I also ordained
that it should happen through a Mahapurusha.

This is what exactly happened today. Isn’t it my son?
asked Brahma smilingly.

Astsrology



25
STORY 2:

Episode of “Garutmanta”
There was a parrot enjoying his day sitting on the

“Simha Dwaram” of the “Kailasa” loka.
Lord ‘YAMA’ had an official work with lord “SIVA”

and was entering the Kailasa. He saw the parrot on the main
door. He stopped, looked at him, smiled by nodding his
head and went away into Kailasam to meet lord Siva.

The parrot trembled with fear. The parrot knows that
a look with smile from lord Yama is nothing but death. With
anxiety and fear for life, it prayed for the King of the birds,
lord “Garutmanta”. He appeared and enquired what the
matter is.

The parrot wept and with fear, explained what
happened and said that he is young and wanted to live and
made “Stotram” to the lord of the birds. Parrot said there
is nothing impossible for “Garutmanta” and if he wills, the
parrot can live.

“Garutmanta” was happy for the prayer and took pity
on the parrot and said, do not you worry, I will see how
they can take your life. I will take you within seconds to
Brahmaloka where very few can reach. You will be safe
there. Sit on my back.”

Thus he took him to Brahmaloka left him there and
came back within minutes to the same Simha dwaram.

By this time lord Yama finished his work with lord

Astsrology



26
Siva and came back to the main door and was searching for
the parrot. “Garutmanta” asked him what is it he is searching
for. “For a Parrot” answered Yama. “But what for?” enquired
Garutmanta.

“Look,” answered Yama, “When I was going inside,
I saw it on the door I knew that it had to die few minutes
from then in the hands of a cat of the Brahmaloka. I was
wondering how will it reach Brahmaloka within few minutes
but I had confidence in “Brahmaji” because finally he will
make it to happen and looks like it happened.”

As per Shastras, prarabda karma affects us in three
different types. They are

1. Adhi Bhautika
2. Adhi Daivika
3. Aadhyatmika

1. Adhi Bhautika Dukham
This is purely physical and mental in nature.
a. Ill health and bodily discomforts.
b. Accidents and Chronic diseases.
c. Damage from animals, snakes.
d. Suffering through “Arishadvargas”
e. Trouble through Finances.

2. Adhi Daivika Dukham
These are mostly due to natural calamities.

Astsrology



27
a. Floods, Earth quakes etc
b. Destruction in Mass events
c. Wars, famine etc

3. Aadhyatmika Dukham
Social & spiritual in nature.
a. Trouble in social relationships
b. Trouble through spirits & planets
c. Confusion in spiritual
      understanding of life
d. Not getting a Guru or in the

                 grip of bad Guru.

Astsrology



28
3. THE HISTORY OF ASTROLOGY

As per the Shastras, the subject of Astrology was
taught initially by Brahma to Narada Maharshi. Narada taught
the shastra to the Munis like Saunaka. The Munis taught
the Shastra to Parasara Maharshi and Parasara to Maitreya
etc and so on and so forth.

But as per the historians, the Adi rishi for Astrology
was “Lagadha Maharshi”.

But based on availability of writings and
confirmations, Brighu Maharshi was given the status of one
of the true original visionaries of Astrology. Bhrigu Samhita
and Bhrigu Nadi belong to him. Presently on his name,
“Bhrigu Sarala padhati” and “Bhrigu Chakra padhati” are
being practiced.

But “Parasara Maharshi” is the one who is considered
as the master of the subject of Vedic Astrology. His major
text “Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra” is considered as a
reference text book, by all the students of Astrology world
over. It is used as a reference for any doubts or
clarifications.

Parasara has “Ekalavya” disciples throughout the
world. Many books have been written commenting and
explaining the BPHS of Parasara. Thus Parasara has been
considered as a father figure of Indian Vedic Astrology.

Even the various Maharshis have concluded that only
Parasara principles would work well in Kaliyuga. They said,

Astsrology



29
Sloka:

N˛¬Á{ ú∫Á∆∫y “Áz∫Á ünÆN˛…Æ ¢˛¬tÁÆåy
otÏMo ∫ynÆÁåÏ™yÆ™ \ã™N˛Á¬Á ∆ÏßÁutN˛™ @@
(KALAU PARASARI HORA PRATYAKSHA PHALADAYINEE
JADUKTAREETYANU MEYAM JANMAKALA SUBHADIKAM)

It was also concluded by many and indicated by
Parasara also that out of all the types of Mahadasas defined,
the “Vimsottari Mahadasa” only works well and is suitable
in the times of Kaliyuga. Hence all astrologers follow the
120 years of planetary Dasa period as standard.

Another great Astrologer of the Parasara’s times was
“Jaimini Maharshi”.

The Jaimini principles are essentially different from
those of Parasharas, though the fundamentals about planets,
Rashis and stars remained same.

The speciality of Jaimini is study of “Chara Karakas”
apart from the “Sthira Karakas” of Vedic Astrology. The
“Karakamsa lagna” principle of Jaimini is followed
Universally. But there are very few Astrologers who follow
Jaimini system of Astrology exclusively.

The Indian Vedic Astrology, over a long period after
Parasara and Jaimini, was expanded, strengthened and
practised by a parampara of great rishis and pundits. They
were both well known and also unknown. They were trained
in “Guru Sishya parampara” and also few of them being self
trained geniuses.

Astsrology



30
If we study the medieval history of Astrology in India, the
one name which predominantly comes forward is that of
“Varaha Mihira”. He was the author of the famous works
“Brihat Samhita” and “Brihat Jataka”.

He belonged to the King “Vikramaditya’s” court, in
the ancient city of “UJJAINI” in the sixth century A.D.

There is a very interesting episode in his life which
is quoted in many of the astrological texts. His initial name
was “Mihiracharya”. He was one of the senior and important
astrologer in the King’s court.

During those times, the queen mother gave birth to
a baby boy. The King, Courtesans and the common people
celebrated for the birth of a prince.

The King ordained for the Horoscope analysis which
was a widely prevailing act in those days, especially so in
the princely families.

All the Astrologers of the court gave a glorious
picture of the future of the prince. They said he will learn
all the skills and ascend the throne after the present king.

Only “Mihiracharya” differed. He said that surely
the boy will be adept at all the Kingly skills and education,
but he can not ascend the throne, since at the age of 18th
year, he has a “Marana Gandam” in his horoscope. He shall
not live to ascend the throne.

Hearing this, the King was shocked, got angry but
since he had such a respect and belief in Mihiracharya, he
controlled himself and asked Mihiracharya to further study

Astsrology



31
and if it is true, tell him the cause of death.

Mihiracharya did the required calculations and told
the king that horns of a wild boar would pierce the chest of
the prince and he would die due to the serious wounds.

The King kept this prediction in his memory and
went ahead in raising the prince as usual with education,
skill training etc. When he became a young lad and was
entering his 18th year, the King became alert because that
is the age of “Marana Gandam” as per the prediction.

The King arranged the top floor of his palace as the
residence of the Prince and nobody would see him without
the King’s permission. Food was in continuous supply and
every sort of entertainment was arranged for the prince so
that he need not come out of the residence for any need.

Leave alone the wild boar, even an insect can not
enter his residence at the top floor. Such was the strict
vigilence ensured to prevent any eventuality.

One day, the prince, who got bored with the jail like
circumstances, wanted to breath fresh air and went to the
roof top, for which there was no objection for the security
staff.

He went to the roof, breathed fresh air, enjoyed
himself and laid himself down on to the stone couch
existing there. The weather changed suddenly and the air
flow became strong. There was a wooden staff attached to
the couch and on top of the staff was fixed a statue of Iron
boar which was actually the official symbol of the Kingdom.

Astsrology



32
The air flow became severe and cyclonic in nature,

and with that force, the wooden staff broke at the top portion.
The Iron boar got seperated from the staff, fell down on to
the chest of the Prince. With the horns piercing the chest
of the Prince, he died immediately.

The King and the courtesans were aghast with shock
at the unexpected way the incident took place. There was
grief all over the Kingdom.

After few days, the King called upon Mihiracharya,
felicitated him profusely and declared that from then on,
he should be called “Varaha Mihiracharya”.

If we consider the modern times, in our country,
the one person who brought respect and Universal
acceptance to the sacred subject of Astrology, through his
books and writings in his magazine, “The Astrological
Magazine” is surely Dr. Bangalore Venkat Raman, shortly
known as B.V. Raman. His “How to judge a horoscope” was
like a text book. He brought the subject from the status of

CONSULT IN PRIVATE
&

CONDEMN IN PUBLIC
to, a level of

CONSULT, Study & Discuss openly.
Dr.B.V.Raman’s father Prof. B. Surya Narayana Rao

himself was an eminent Astrologer of his times. He was
almost the first one among modern Astrologers to have
written seperately “Stree Jatakam”.

Astsrology



33
I remember to have read a paper cutting long back,

about his prediction regarding Germany attacking RUSSIA
in 2nd world war. Prof. Rao heard that Hitler might attack
RUSSIA (in 1941). He calculated w.r.to Hitler’s Horoscope
and found that he was proceeding towards his doom. He
then wrote a letter to Hitler, asking him to resist any
thoughts of attacking RUSSIA, which if done, would lead
him to his doom, but we know what happened and he did his
duty as Astrologer, advising the dictator. The daughter of
Dr. B.V. Raman also is a famous Astrologer and writer. It is
an illustrous family of 3 generations in the service of
Astrology.

Sri K.S. Krishna Murthy was a unique shining star
of Indian Astrology. He discovered and spread the so called
K.P. system (Krishnamurthy Padhati) of Astrology
throughout the world.

Sri K.S.K was a great Upasaka of “Uchishta
Ganapathi”. He had a very deep knowledge of Vedic
Astrology. With the blessings of Lord Ganapathi, he could
discover K.P.System which is being followed by many
Astrologers worldwide.

He was deeply into Vedic Astrology. But he was not
satisfied and many of his questions remained unanswered.
Acurate timing of events was also very difficult.

He was already observing the effect of planetary
placement in the stars and the study of the star Lord
positions. There what he did further was to divide the length
of the star into divisions of various planets based on the

Astsrology



34
Vimsottari Dasa proportions of the planets. Such star lord
was called sub lord. Further division yielded sub sub lord
and so on. Thus new tools and new methodologies were
created for a more incisive analysis of a Horoscope though
it has become more complex.

KP system is widely practised for the ‘Horary’ or
“Prasna” Astrology, where its success has been found to be
of very high order. There are a total of 249 sub lords and
the questioner is asked to select a random number with in
249. This is an additional tool to the prasna chart with the
asking time as ascendant.

The following are the exclusive aspects of K.P.
Astrology.

1. The ‘Ayanamsa’ selected is the KP Ayanamsa
instead of Vedic Lahiri ayanamsa.

2. The bhava divisions are based on placidus system
(similar to Western Astrology)

It is the bhava starting point instead of bhava
madhyama of  Vedic Astrology.

3. The basic principle of KP system is that the star
lord gives the primary results of the planet and the sub lord
decides the direction (good or bad) of the results.

4. Similar to planet star lords and sub lords, a great
importance is given to bhava star lords and sub lords. With
such an expansion of parameters, any expertise in KP
system less than the best is bound to falter.

Astsrology



35
5. One important aspect of KP system is the

accuracy of birth time. The sub lord changes  fast with time.
For example the ‘Ravi’ sub changes within a minute. Due
to this reason, many in KP were found to analyse based on
a wrong sub lord due to inaccuracy of birth time. Their
analysis may be right but found not applicable to the person
due to wrong sub lord.

In Vedic Astrology, lagna or ascendant has a wide
time choice. Since we depend mainly on Rasi & Navamsa,
the micro variations of birth time do not really matter.
Accuracy of time with in 2 minutes is required only for the
Varga charts study.

The solution for birth time inaccuracies in KP
system lies in the technique called the Birth Time
Rectification. This involves going upto sub - sub level of
the lagna point, by moving the time forward or backward.
But many are not comfortable with this technique.

Due to the above mentioned intricacies and vastness
of tools, many find the KP system tough to understand and
practice. It requires institutional training which is available
presently.

But Astrologers who mastered this technique were
found to give predictions with surprising accuracy for type
of event and timing also.

Three such names which come to mind (as far as
KP expertise is concerned) are

Astsrology



36
The First : Dr Andrew Dutta of Calcutta who tours

the world and also conducts classes in Calcutta. His mother,
in her days was a famous Vedic Astrologer.

The Second : Mr. Narnouli of New Delhi about
whom I came to know through a video. He is also busy going
around and he certifies for the accuracy of Prediction.

The Third : Last but not the least, here is one person
who did research into the KP system. He was from Andhra
Pradesh and he is no more. His name is Sivala
Subrahmanyam. He went into unexplored depths of Vedic
and Kp systems. He did research on ‘Navamsa’ and
developed “Nava Navamsa” preparation in a simple method.

He wrote books in Telugu and they run into a series;
like Sivala scientific series etc. On researched and
practised remedies it self he wrote a series of four books.

Unfortunately he died in his mid 50’s leaving as
orphans, a big group of followers of himself and KP system.
As per my opinion, exploring the subject to such depths is
not possible by all. One has to be blessed for that.

There are many self styled KP Astrologers around
us, who without studying the depths of Vedic Astrology,
jumped half way into KP and are also practising. They are
expected to be thorough with both Vedic and KP Astrology.
But unfortunately they lack depth in both of them. Hence
we see a high rate of failed predictions all around us. The
three people mentioned above were strong Vedic
Astrologers before becoming KP experts. This is the only
path to be followed by all.

Astsrology



37
Coming back to Vedic Astrology the subject is vast

like an ocean, the depths of which can not be fathomed
unless until we go to the depths and study. This great subject
also causes an illusion in the mind, after reading few books,
that the expertise has been achieved. But the proof is only
the success rate of predictions.

People who self assert that they know a great deal
of the subject are like people who go to the sea shore look
at the sea and declare that they know everything about the
sea.

In fact wisemen say that “Easwara” is the only
Astrologer in the Universe, who created the planets and
ordained them duties. All human beings are perennial
students of  Astrology.

Since this is a subject between MAN and GOD, a
sadhana or an upasana of a deity is a must for the hold on
the subject apart from deep study, integrity and sincere
practice.

Most of us depend on RASI and Navamsa Chakras.
But there are Shodasha (16) chakras (charts) for further
indepth analysis of each element of life.  For example
Saptamsa can be studied for children apart from studying
the 5th bhava, lord and Jupiter from the Rasi chart. Study
of hora chart for money etc. The study requires expertise.
Apart form these, the concept of AshtakaVarga, shadbalas
and the transit principles make this a truely complex
equation to study.

Astsrology



38
It is apt to remember what Dr. J.B.S. Haldane, the

British Astrophysicist said about the Cosmos.
(Dr Haldane spent the last part of his life in INDIA)

THE COSMOS IS NOT ONLY MORE COMPLEX
THAN WE IMAGINE,

BUT ALSO MORE COMPLEX THAN
WE CAN IMAGINE.

In the above saying, if we replace COSMOS with
the word “ASTROLOGY”, then that is the truth about
Astrology.

Astsrology



39
4. THE KNOWLEDGE OF ASTROLOGY

If we wanted to understand, who are the people who
really require this knowledge and awareness of Astrology,
then we have to understand the different types of people.
According to me there are 3 basic categories of people
with respect to any belief.

1. Non Believers : These are people basically
requiring physical proof to develop any belief. They are
mostly atheists. w.r.t. Astrology, they argue how an
inanimate planet can influence human affairs? if it is true,
as per their argument, even a big hillock in their
neighbourhood due to its mass and distance equation has
to affect his activities.

Hence they don’t believe in Astrology and are not
bothered about anything connected with Astrology. They
believe that people are wasting their time, money & energy
by involving in the illusory & imaginary subject of
Astrology.

2. Believers : These are mostly theistic gentlemen
who understand the origin and importance of Astrology. They
also understand that our prarabda karma results are handed
over to us through the planetary forces of Astrology. They
are so much into the belief that most of them even don’t
bother to check their horoscopes frequently unless there
is a bad time.

They do their work with a belief in GOD and in the
principle of BE GOOD and DO GOOD and try to lead happy
and contented lives.

Astsrology



40
3. Neutral People : These are a combination of

theists and atheists. Fundamentally, these people never
bother to think about subjects like Astrology. Most of them
in this category are even illiterates. They work well, eat
well and try to live well; and go, where life takes them.
Hence they never bother about Astrology at all.

So we have seen that all the 3 categories of people
don’t want Astrology then the question arises, who are the
people who really require Astrology? For this, a beautiful
answer is given in Bhagavadgita (Chapter 7, sloka 16). Here,
Lord Krishna explained, who are all the people who seek
for him. This is exactly applicable to Astrology also.
Sloka: (Bhagavadgita 7:16)

YoÏuƒ|áÁ ß\ãozz ™Á} \åÁ“ ÃNw˛uoåy\ÏåÁ
EÁsÁz| u\`TÁÃÏ ∫sÁ|∫Æy \åÁåÁYÁ ß∫o ƒ |ßÁ

(CHATURVIDHA BHAJANTE MAAM JANAAH  SAKRUTINORJUNA
AARTHO JIGNASU RARTHARTHY JNANACHA BHARATA VARSHABHA)

Meaning : Arjuna! Four types of people worship me.
People with physical and mental suffering. The seekers of
higher knowledge, Jnanis and people who worship for
material gains.

There are two fundamental principles of Astrology
which we can call as Root rules because these rules define
and direct the results from Astrology.

Astsrology



41
I. “BUDHEE KARMANUSAARINEE”
Sloka 1 :

Eu¬∫åÏÃ∫uo úu∫™¬™ ¬fl™y∫åÏÃ∫uo åÆåÁuåúÏå™
uå©å™åÏÃ∫uo Ãu¬¬Ã uƒuá u¬uQo™ §Ïuá∫åÏÃ∫uo @@

(ALI RANUSARATI PARIMALAM LAKSHMI RANUSARATI NAYANA NIPUNAM

NIMNAMANUSARATI SALILAM VIDHI LIKHITAM BUDHIRANUSARATI)

Meaning : The bee follows the fragrance. Lakshmi Devi
follows who has expertise. Water follows to lower regions
and budhee follows Vidhi likhitam (written fate).
Sloka 2 :
E•ÆÁÃÁåÏÏÃÁ∫y uƒÜÆÁ §Ïtáy N˛™Á|åÏÃÁu∫my
GÜÆÁzTÁåÏÃÁ∫y ¬fl™y ¢˛¬Ê ßÁSÆÁåÏÃÁ∫y
(ABHYASANUSAREE VIDYA BUDHEE KARMANUSARINEE
UDYOGANUSAREE LAKSHMI PHALAM BHAGYANUSAREE.)

Meaning : The Vidya would be as per the practice. The
direction of the mind is as per Karma. Lakshmi follows
the profession and the results are as per bhagya or luck.

One has to understand that the skill sets, expertise
and the mind working are all different for different people.
The prarabda karma and praaptam in various aspects of life
makes finally all the lives look so different.

Hence the teaching here is that each life is unique
and incomparable. One life should never be compared with
any other life. To day many problems in society arise due

Astsrology



42
to this fundamental mistake of comparison.

A disciple asked a ‘Guru’ a unique question. He asked
with in what time period, a horoscope exactly gets repeated
in time. The Guru answered that for all planets to be in
exact locations and degrees between two horoscope, it takes
500 years. Probably we have eligibility to compare our
horoscope only with such a horoscope which never happens
in ones lifetime.

Even if we think about the comparison between two
lives on a non astrological level, it is obsurd since one’s
life is constructed by the combination of one’s mind and
circumstances. That combination is unique for everyone.
The same circumstances with two different minds produce
two different lives. Comparisons on a positive note are
made only to take it as a bench mark and get inspiration.

Now, let us clearly see the structure of the mind
and know how meaningless it is to bluntly compare two
MINDS which are essentially two complex systems.

A person is basically assessed by his language,
communication, dressing and body language and behaviour.
But in a subtle way, what he is internally is decided by his
so called Antahkarana (inner self). This is the most
important element to understand a human being. It consists
of four elements.
1. MANAS : The one which oscillates always like a
pendulum and does “SANKALP” and “VIKALP” and desires
to possess and experience everything it sees.

Astsrology



43
‘MOON’ is the significator planet for MANAS.
In a horoscope, if the MOON is strengthened, any

Avayoga can be efficiently faced. No ‘yoga’ in any
horoscope blossoms if ‘Moon’ is damaged. Mental peac is
provided by Moon and he is the karaka.

Astrologers recommend Moon to be studied as an
alternate ascendant, parallel with actual ascendant.

Waning Moon is considered a malefic planet and
waxing Moon is considered as a benefic planet. The cases
of mental aberrations, hallucinations and lunacy are caused
by a damaged Moon.
2. BUDHI (Intellect) : This is the intellect, general
intelligence, and is a decision maker for signals sent by
“MANAS”. The representative lord is “MERCURY”.

When Mercury is powerful, he gives intelligence,
logic, abilities in calculations, Business acumen, oratorical
powers etc. One with mercury being strong, can not be
defeated in arguments easily. This is a significator for Talk
& Business.
3. CHITTHA :

A : A deep conscious mind : This is the MIND at
deeper levels which is capable of analysing any situation.
This is “VIVEKA”, and the 5th bhava and 5th lord are the
significators and Jupiter is the Karaka planet.

B. Sub Conscious MIND : This is extremely
subtle, deep beyond the normal conscious mind and is not

Astsrology



44
directly accessible. Effort is required to reach it. All our
thoughts, deep memories, fears and apprehensions are
stored in this mind.

8th bhava and 8th lord are the significators and
SATURN is the Karaka planet.
4. AHAMKARA (EGO) : This is the most important
element in human relationships. It operates negatively if
we are not aware of it. If aware and have understanding of
the mechanism of EGO, then we can have control and make
it work positively.

Ascendant and the lord are the significators and
‘SUN’ is the Karaka planet.

The above 4 elements together define one persons
“Antahkarana”.

Apart from this “Antahkarana”, the 4th bhava, being
a “Sukha Sthana” is also “Hridaya sthana”.

4th bhava & Lord : The study of this bhava and
lord placement reveals the true inner nature of that person.
Whether a person is basically good or bad at the core of
his heart, is revealed by this study. It is of course modified
by the aspects of benefic and malefic planets on both 4th
bhava and the 4th lord.

Now, it is clear for us that a man’s phychological
personality is a combination of all the above. The
parameters are so many that a point to point matching
between two persons is just impossible.

Astsrology



45
There is a ficticious story of a ‘Siva bhakta’ about

mental suffering due to comparisons in human life.
Once there was a “Siva bhakta” and he had a

complaint that lord Siva has not done any good to him in
his life. Since he was a sincere devotee and worshipping
the lord everyday, lord Siva took pity on him and appeared
before him. He told the devotee that he never creates a life
without any blessings. That he should only learn to count
the blessings given. Saying so, lord Siva disappeared.

After few days, the devotee was further saddened
and became sunken and bedridden. The lord Siva noticed
his devotees plight and took pity on him and appeared once
again in front of him. The lord asked the devotee what
happened and what is the cause of his plight? The devotee
said,

“My Lord! You asked me to count the blessings in
life and I started.

Look at my neighbour, he has two sons and I have
two daughters. What an injustice to me? My lord, few more
countings and I could not bear it and I became like this.”

Then the lord Siva replied, and explained to him
clearly.

1. I wanted you to count the blessings given in your
life. You do not have the right to count blessings in other
lives which are in my purview.

Astsrology



46
2. Thinking that your neighbours sons are his

blessings is too premature. You do not know the later
situation or the final outcome when they grow up.

3. Similarly thinking that your daughters are not your
blessings may be your present mental illusion based on
future fears. It may not be true.

4. You have to enjoy the positives in your life and
take guidance from me to handle the negatives.

Saying so, he disappeared.
II. “Runanubandha Roopena”

Sloka:
ªmÁåÏ§ãá øúzm ú∆Ï únåy ÃÏoÁ¬ÆÁ
ªm N˛flÆz N˛flÆÆÁuão N˛Áofi úu∫ƒztåÁ @
(RUNANUBANDHA ROOPENA PASHU PATNEE SUTAALAYAA

RUNA KSHAYE KSHAYAA YAANTI  KA TATRA PARI VEDANA)

Meaning : The elements in life like cattle, wife, children
and houses are all result of the debt equations from the
past lives. They all shall vanish once the debt equation is
fulfilled. Then why do you weil over them?

If we study carefully the relations between husband
and wife and also between parents and children, we will
understand who has been indebted to whom. It is purely the
indebtedness brought forward from previous life equations
that relationships settle in this life.

Astsrology



47
If we understand this basic principle, then, if we are

experiencing any tough relationship, then we can work
towards betterment dispassionately.

For any issue in this world, there are three types of
results existing. The positive, the negative and the neutral.

If we consider the relationship and the effects
between the parents and the child, the following fated
conditions may exist, as an example.
1. Positive fate for children :

In this scenario, the father may be a busy
man not able to spend time for children or he may be a
negative fellow, a drunkard, not accessible for children.
Even in such condition also, the children study well with
self help, help also mother and come up very well in life
and achieve success.
2. Neutral fate (No YOGA) for children :

The parents would try their best spending a
lot of time with children. But somehow they turnout very
average in studies and get minimal jobs and settle in a
subdued manner in life. This causes unhappiness to parents
but they had put their best efforts but to no good effect.
3. Negative fate for children :

The parents would have taken a good all round
care for children giving their time, money & effort.

The children, by the time they cross their
teenage, would have become criminal in nature. Spoilt

Astsrology



48
without education & careers. Parents in such examples are
perplexed, where they went wrong. They can’t explain.

The above are the three different examples given in
extreme situations. World is full of such examples with
few variations.

If the above examples are viewed w.r.to the
indebtedness principle, things would be more clear and if
the horoscopes of both parents and children are studied,
then everything would be clear.

Great Saints in their discourses say that “You will
get riches to the extent of how much you have given” is a
statement given combining two lives. If I gave off well to
the needy in the previous life, then I get right for my riches
in the present life. This is a sure shot “Karma Sutra”.

Astsrology



49
5. ASTROLOGY - THE DETAILS
Since the dawn of human civilisation, among the

many important subjects which took birth and flourished,
the Astrology assumes great importance. The different
aspects of the study of Astrology have been about planets,
their movements, influence on human affairs, and mundane
influence on environment, weather and natural events etc.

Some wise experts called Astrology, “The Mother
of all subjects”, since there is no subject in the society
which is not touched by Astrology. Human life is totally
defined in all aspects by Astrology.

Human life fundamentally operates at 3 levels. The
physical, mental and spiritual. Astrology can not only
explain the facets of life at all the above three levels, but
also explains about the other important elements of human
life like finances, social relationships and can also explain
the overall direction of life and the status in society.

Astrology is a comprehensive tool to reveal
everything about one’s life as ordained by our own SOUL
to experience the Prarabda Karma.
ASTROLOGY : DETAILS OF THE SUBJECT.

1. Sidhanta - Ganitha Bhaga
2. Hora - Phalitha Bhaga
3. Samhita - Phalitha Bhaga

1. Sidhanta : This is the theory of Astrology. This is
Astronomy for the specific use in Astrology.

There are originally 18 numbers of Apaurusheya
Astsrology



50
Sidhantaas propounded by sages.

Presently 5 sidhantas are in use by pandits who are
preparing Panchangas.
2. HORA : The middle portion of the word ‘AHORATRA’
is taken to represent the predictive Astrology. This has two
parts.
a. Jyotisha (Natal Astrologey) : This is the individual
horoscope analysis. A chart of planetary positions is made
at the time of birth, considering the time date and place of
birth. The Ascendant is fixed and birth star is known.

The results are observed by an expert Astrologer,
over a long period and remedial measures are suggested.
General structure and general readings are explained. Deep
knowledge and divine blessings are required to tell the
specific events and their timing.
b. Prasna (Horary Astrology) :

When one is concerned about knowing the
result of a particular element in life, a prasna is asked by
the client. The time of asking is taken as an ascendant and a
chart of that moment is made to predict the results.
3. Samhitha :

It consists of the following.
a. Medini Jyotisha (Mundane Astrology) :

It is a predictive Astrology for the territorial events
such as earthquakes, storms, wars, politics and economy.

Astsrology



51
This is done based on the Astrological dynamics in the
Horoscope of a state, nation or the whole world, with the
help of transits.
b. Vastu Shastra : The shastra about the soils, structures
and directions of the buildings.
c. Iconography : Vigraha Shastra
d. Shakuna Shastra : Matters related to trees, animals,
qualities etc.
e. Muhurtha (Electional Astrology) : For finding
auspicious timing of important events and actions like
marriage, war, travels etc.
Different elements of Astrology :

The stars in the sky are arranged sequentially from
Aswini to Revathi, in the grouping of Rasis. Though the
planets go around the SUN in actual cosmos, since we are
observing from Earth, all the planets are considered as
going around Earth. At a point of time, one planet happens
to be in one particular star and in a Rasi.

When we are born, the rising rasi in the eastern
horizon is considered as ascendant. Like planets, the rasi
chakra with stars also is considered as moving (Actually
earth is moving) rising in the east and settling in the West.
It is an imaginary rasi chakra moving along with stars and
planets. The rising rasi at eastern horizon at the time of
birth is the ascendant.

Astsrology



52
The stars :

A total of 27 stars exist with four padas each.
The total padas become 27*4 = 108. Each rasi

contains 9 padas of stars. Based on this padas, navamsa
chakra is prepared. Basic horoscope is the RASI chakra,
which shows ascendant and all the planets in the
corresponding Rasis with particular degrees.

The stars begin with Aswini in ARIES Rasi and end
with Revathi in PISCES Rasi.

TABLE
S.No. Stars Star lord Planet         Direction
1. Aswini, Makha, Moola Ketu         North East
2. Bharani, Pubba, Poorvashada Venus        South  East
3. Krittika, Uttara, Uttarashada Sun        East
4. Rohini, Hasta, Sravanam Moon        North West
5. Mrigashira, Chitta, Dhanista Mars       South
6. Arudra, Swathi,Satabhisham Rahu       South West
7. Punarvasu, Vishakha,

Poorvabhadra Jupiter       North East
8. Pushyami,Anuradha,

Uttarabhadra Saturn       West
9. Aslesha,Jyeshta,Revathi Mercury      North

The RASIS :
A total of 12 Rasis exist in the Zodiac wheel. The

names are derived from appearance of the formation of
the stars in the Rasi. The first Rasi is ARIES (MESHA) and
the 12th and the last is PISCES (MEENA).

When the horoscope is studied, the ascendant is
Astsrology



53
considered as 1st bhava, then counting goes on upto 12th
bhava which can be any rasi. Hence Rashis with stars are
fixed in the Zodiac but the bhavas change as per the
ascendant of a horoscope.
The PLANETS :

The planets while going around the Earth in a
clockwise direction, go through all the rashis with stars in
the background. The speed of each planet is different hence
time spent by each planet in a rashi is different. Following
are the details of the planets.

There are a total of 9 planets
5 tara grahas
2 chaya grahas + SUN & MOON
1. 5 tara grahas Time in a Rashi

Mercury one month
Venus one month
Mars 11/2 months
Jupiter 1 year
Saturn 21/2 years

2. 2 visible planets King & Queen
SUN - 1 month
MOON - 21/2 days

3. Chaya grahas (shadow planets)
(These are the North and South nodes of the crossing

of  Moon’s & Earth’s orbits)
RAHU - 11/2 Years
KETU - 11/2 Years

These two rotate in an anti-clockwise direction.

Astsrology



54
The cosmic (general) Horoscope is shown below.

Pisces Aries Taurus Gemini
(Jupiter) (Mars) (Venus) (Mercury)
Aquarius Cancer
(Saturn) Rasi Chart (Moon)
Capricorn Leo

(Saturn) (Sun)
Saggitarius Scorpio Libra Virgo
(Jupiter) (Mars) (Venus) (Mercury)

There are Ucha (Exalted) and neecha (Debilitated) locations
for planets. To get an idea, the rashi chakra showing above
details is given below.

Venus 270(E) Sun 100(E) Moon 30(E)
Mercury 150(D) Saturn 200(D)

Jupiter 50(E)
Rashi Chakra

Mars 280(D)
Exaltatious &

Jupiter50(D) Debilitatious of
Mars 280(E) Planets

Moon 30 Sun 100(D) Venus 270(D)
(D)

Saturn200 (E) Mercury 150(E)

Exalted planet is strong and benefic. Debilitated
planet is weak and malefic.

When a person is born, then a horoscope is prepared

Astsrology



55
based on date time and place. The above such chart is shown
with ascendant & planets. That becomes the personal
Horoscope of that person. As an example, our ex PM Sri
P.V. Narasimha Rao’s horoscope is given here.

MOON KETU SUN

VENUS MERCURY

28.6.1921
Sri P.V.Narasimha

Rao Saturn
Horoscope Jupter

RAHU ASC

Now, let us attempt to understand this horoscope in
a simple way as a practice.

- The ascendant is VIRGO rasi. (Kanya) This is a
rashi belonging to Mercury. Mercury being strong, in  own
rasi in Gemini at a fundamental level, the qualities of
intelligence, talk calculations which are represented by
Mercury are present in his personality.

- The second bhava which is Libra rashi has RAHU
in it. There are no planets from 3rd to 6th bhava.

- The seventh bhava PISCES (Meena rasi) is
occupied by MOON. wherever MOON is placed, that
becomes the Rashi of that chart So the present chart is that
of  Virgo ascendant and Pisces rashi.

- The 8th bhava has KETU & VENUS in it.
- The 9th bhava is free of planets.

Astsrology



56
- The 10th bhava which is karmasthana Gemini

(Mithuna rashi) has SUN, MERCURY and MARS in it.
- 11th bhava has no planets.
- 12th bhava (Leo) has Saturn & Jupiter.
- As per lordship; the greatest benefic planet for

VIRGO ascendant is VENUS (being lord of 2nd and 9th
bhavas as counted from ascendant).

Now, if we have to assess the horoscope in general
(without going into deeper aspects) then we can say that
the ascendant lord mercurry is placed in 10th bhava, which
is karmasthana and in his own rashi, this mercury happens
to be the lord of the houses of ascendant and 10th bhava.
Hence lagna lord is placed in 10th bhava in own house and
10th lord is in 10th bhava. This is how the placement has to
be seen. This is giving rise to “Bhadra mahapurusha Yoga”
and with SUN, Mercury formed “Budhaatitya Yoga”. Both
together indicate high placement linked to government
which would have life long presence.

In many charts, the results from Ascendant have to
be verified by considering Moon as ascendant also. In this
case, the yoga giving planets are strongly placed even from
MOON, and hence the yogas will come to pass surely. We
all know the life results of our ex PM which are compatible
with above Yogas.

Detailed explaination about Astrology and
discussing all those aspects with the help of example chats
is not in the scope of this book. For such a study,
innumerable books do exist in the market which would be

Astsrology



57
very helpful in gaining a deeper understanding of the
subject.

But without discussing the fundamentals, the book
will be incomplete and readers who are new to Astrology
who are reading this book, should get a good idea about the
subject at a basic level.’

The planets have “ Graha Karakatwas” and the bhavas
have “Bhava Karakatwas”. If we look at these, it is fascinating
to know that together they cover evcry aspect of human
life at physical, financial, social, psychological and spiritual
levels. The planet, bhava together with star lord combine
their forces to give results in a horoscope.

Before going further on Karakatwas, another branch
of Astrology has to be mentioned here, that is medical
Astrology, dealing with diseases and body parts. The
fundamental principle here is if “Aarogya” is absent, then
searching for “Aiswarya” in a horoscope is meaning less,
Hence a big branch of “Medical Astrology” was developed
by experts. My intention is only to make a mention of
connection of Zodiac to body parts of diseases, information
is provided here.
S.No Rasi Body Part Disease

  1. ARIES The Head Head aches, fevers, injuries

  2. TAURUS Face, Throat ENT, Eyes, Obesity

  3. GEMINI Arms, Shoulders Asthma, Nervous Problems

  4. CANCER Heart, Breast Chest & Breast diseases

Astsrology



58
  5. LEO Back, Stomach Back pain digestion

  6. VIRGO Belly, Uterus Intestines, Kidney disease

  7. LIBRA Kidneys, veins Kidney disease, back pain

  8. SCORPIO Sex organs, Anus Uterus, Fistula, STD, piles

  9. SAGGITARIUS Thighs & Hips Pelvic problems, paralysis

 10. CAPRICORN The knees Arthritis, skin problems

 11. AQUARIUS Calves & Ankles Gout, muscle pains, nervous
problems

 12. PISCES The feet Consumption, Boils, TB.

Now, let us see the planets and the diseases they
cause.
1. The SUN: Eye disease, Head aches, fever, heart disease,

diarrhea, SUN Stroke.
2. The MOON Cold, Cough, Skin & Venereal diseases,

small pox, spleen, lever, mental disorder,
Epilepsy synus, eye diseases, lunacy.

3. The MARS : Accidents, cuts, wounds, dog bite, blood
defect, BP, piles, anaemia, bile.

4. The MERCURY  stomach disorder, leprosy skin diseases,
mental disorder dumb, bald, leukoderma.

5. The JUPITER  Hernia, bronchitis, liver complaints,
Jaundice, pancreas, thighs.

6. The VENUS   Venereal diseases, Uterine disorders, eye
diseases, anemia, ovaries and abortions.

Astsrology



59
7. The SATURN: lethargy, gas troubles, arthritis, tooth

ailments, indigestion, ulcers, bones, asthma.
8. The RAHU: cataract, tooth ailments, pox, leprosy,

suicide, stammering liver & spleen,
rheurnatism, accidents, sexual perversion, snake
bite, insanity.

9. The KETU: cuts, wounds, itches, leprosy suicide, piles,
cancer, sudden death, murder,   hunger, skin
diseases, tumour, snake bite.

SIGNIFICATIONS
(KARAKATWAS)

There are general karakatwas, then graha karakatwas
and Bhava karakatwas. Once this information is understood
and assimilated, the Analysis of a horoscope becomes easy
and meaningful.
1. General Karakatwas for relations.

SUN - Father, superior
MOON - Mother, Women
MARS - Younger brother, Husband
MERCURY - Maternal uncle, friends &

relatives
JUPITER - Sons, elder brother and husband

Astsrology



60
VENUS - wife, Mother for Day Born..
SATURN - servants, subordinates
RAHU - paternal, grand father, foreigners
KETU - maternal, grand father, foreigners
I have to mention here about the friendship or

enemity among planets which is an essential element in
horoscope analysis.

There is an easy method to remember. Planets can
be formed into two groups under two Gurus, Jupiter &
Venus, (Deva guru & Daitya guru). Just like people in 2
groups have enemity these planets also behave in a similar
way. The groups are

JUPITER VENUS
SUN SATURN
MOON MERCURY
MARS RAHU
KETU

1. Rahu is similar in nature to Saturn and so is Ketu
to Mars (SANI VAT RAHU, KUJA VAT KETU).

2. Jupiter and Venus are not great enemies, they
respect each other.

3. Moon wants to be friendly with every one Mercury
does not allow Moon.

4. Severe enemity is between SUN - SATURN,
MARS - SATURN, JUPITER - RAHU, SATURN - KETU.
Any bhava with such pairs struggles to function.

Astsrology



61
2. General Karakatwas for Bhavas
Bhava Planet Karaka for
  1. a. SUN Vigour, longevity body

b. MOON MANAS
 2. a. JUPITER wealth

b. MERCURYspeech
c. VENUS family

 3. a. MARS Brother, Courage
b. SATURN Misery, longevity

  4. a. MOON mother
b. MERCURYeducation
c. VENUS conveyance
d. MARS lands

  5. a. JUPITER children
b. MERCURYintelligence

  6. a. MARS enemies
b. SATURN illness & debts

  7. a. VENUS wife
b. MARS sex vigour, Husband

 8. SATURN lougevity

Astsrology



62
 9. a. SUN father

b. JUPITER Guru, Teacher
 10. a. SUN power & position

b. MERCURYtrade & business
c. JUPITER fortune
d. SATURN service & livelihood

 11. JUPITER gains & elder brother
 12. a. SATURN sorrow

b. MARS confinement
c. VENUS material desires
d. JUPITER wisdom
e. KETU moksha
f. RAHU foreign travel

Now, how to use the above information? when we
study a bhava, we also have to study the position and
condition of the concerned karaka planet for getting correct
results. The karaka may alter the bhava results positively
or negatively.
3. GRAHA Karakatwas (planetary significations)

SUN : Health, father, power, authority fame,
royalty, eyes, medicine, brokerage, blood circulation,
paternal uncle, politician courage, doctor, soul, forests,
deserts.

Astsrology



63
MOON : Mother, travel, heart, mind, emotions,

blood, liquids, gardening, medicine, changes, hernia, left-
eye, foreign travel, milk, pearls, popularity, sea food.

MARS : Courage, Younger brother, husband,
stamina, landed property, enemies, blood, surgery, science,
logic, fire, mathematics, step mother, passions, anger,
hatred, vindictiveness.

MERCURY : Intelligence, education, friends,
mathematics, business & trade, speech, publisher, printer,
teaching, maternal uncle, accountancy, nephews, adopted
sons. black magic, laughter, smell, Astrology.

JUPITER : Sons, husband, wealth, guru, education,
Astrology, scriptures, knowledge, wisdom, control over
senses, devotion, prosperity, good virtues, religion, faith,
law and Teaching.

VENUS : wife, marriage, pleasures of senses,
conveyances, ornaments, luxury articles, sexual desires,
silver, gems, pearls, flowers, comforts, perfumes, good
clothes beauty, dance, music, black hair.

SATURN : Longevity, miseries, old age, ailments,
poverty, sins, imprisonment service, science, law, oil,
workers, servants, slavary, agriculture, fall from heights,
dishonour, debts, hard labour, legs, deformity, renunciation.

RAHU : Research, harsh speech, life in foreign
land, skin diseases, snake bite, poison, epidemics, paternal
grand father, maternal grand mother, falsehood,

Astsrology



64
wisdomhood, pain and swelling, drowning, wicked women,
gambler, mean minded, backbites, hypocrite, amputation,
leprosy.

KETU : Moksha, lunacy, imprisonment, life in
foreign land, leprosy, suicide, maternal grand father and
paternal grandmother, eyes, poisonous speech, long stature,
smokey colour, wound, chain smoker, fallen, intrigues,
occultism, philosophy, detachment.
4. RASHI qualities in brief.
1. ARIES : Hasty, impulsive, restless, short tempered,
dynamic, active.
2. TAURUS : Slow in movement, inclined to luxury,
faithful and obedient.
3. GEMINI : Good speakers, witty & humorous, inquiring
& curious, fond of knowledge, fun seeking.
4. CANCER : Emotional, forgiving, sensitive
5. LEO : Dominative, behaves like ruler.
6. VIRGO : Intelligent, good speaker, tactful
7. LIBRA : Judicious in dealings, good talker
8. SCORPIO : Peevish, straight forward, likes to hide,
sarcastic, secretive.
9. SAGGITARIUS : Honest, even tempered, easy going,
kind hearted, gambles.
10. CAPRICORN : witty, good organizer, secretive,
ambitious, pragmatic.

Astsrology



65
11. AQUARIUS : studious, philosopher, honest,
benevolent.
12. PISCES : Emotional, timid, honest, intuitive, psychic,
talkative fond of good food & company.

5. BHAVA Karakatwas
1st bhava : self, health, longevity, happiness

appearance, character, stature, temparament, prosperity,
nature, personality, vitality and vigour, general well being,
fame, environment, physical body.

2nd bhava : wealth, death, speech, family, education,
learning, right eye, friends, face, self aquisition, second
marriage, teacher, lawyers, bankers, bonds, stocks and
shares, gold, silver, bank balance, worldly attainments, ruby,
pearls.

3rd bhava : Courage, stamina, longevity, younger
brothers, patience, writings, short travels, relatious,
confusion of mind, vigour, pleasure, large undertakings,
communications, neighbours, memory, mental inclination,
study, agreements, accounting, journalist writer, Astrology,
publishing.

4th bhava : Mother, happiness, property,
conveyances, moral standards, friends, education, peace of
mind, comforts, masses fame, diplomacy, residence, farms,
crops orchards, mines, secret life, comforts, aquisitions,
basic gruhasthana.

5th bhava : Children, intelligence, wisdom,
speculation, fame, mind, emotions, 1st conception, sudden

Astsrology



66
wealth, good morals, foresight, memory, enjoyment,
flirtatious, speculative tendencies, bhakti, knowledge of
future life, publications, sports recreations, entertainment,
gambling, betting, horse races, shares, love affairs, spiritual
practices and mantra sidhi.

6th bhava : Enemies, debts, diseases, misery,
sorrows, wounds, worries, disappointments, illness,
accidents, obstacles, imprisonment, house of deficiency
& wants, service, gains, instruments, hospitals, prisons,
punishment, loss in investment.

7th bhava : wife, husband, death, sex desires,
marriage, foreign travels, business partner, general
happiness, relations with public, cure of disease, passions,
diplomacy, second child, honour in foreign country,
business tact and marital happiness.

8th bhava : death, debts, disgrace, degradation,
sorrows, impediments, longevity, legancies, gifts, hidden
wealth, urinary trouble, foreign travel, mangalya sthana for
women, accidents, delays, dejections, disappointments,
intense internal worry, mysticism, house of mystery and
occult science.

9th bhava : Dharma, fortune, wealth, father, religion,
foreign travel, higher studies, wisdom, virtues and moral
standards, prosperity, house of luck, preceptors, teachers,
charity, piligrimage research, invention, exploration, faith,
meditation, fore thought.

10th bhava : Occupation, service, fame, business,
respect, honour, foreign travel, father, position, trade &

Astsrology



67
commerce action, political power, success, status
reputation, authority, morality, government rank.

11th bhava : Gains, elder brother, wealth, friends,
hopes, wishes, success in under takings, elections,
speculations, discharge from hospital, society, ambitious,
desires and their fulfilment.

12th bhava : losses, expenditure, left eye, moksha,
extravagance, foreign travels secret enemies, sins, sleep,
feet, wanderings, living abroad, comforts of bed, mental
worry, hospitalisation, jails, waste and extravagance.

As discussed before, these karakatwas
(significations) if remembered well, would tell us all about
a planets position and the corresponding results.

As an example if MARS is placed in VIRGO rashi
for the saggitarius ascendant, then the following has to be
studied for assessing the results given by MARS.

- The Rashi qualities of VIRGO
- The Graha karakatwa of MARS
- The bhava karakatwas of 5, 10, 12 bhavas. 5 & 12

for MARS ownership & 10 for placement.
- The VIRGO rashi lord MERCURY placement
- The star lord (SUN, MOON, or MARS) placement.
- Any yuti or aspects of other planets.
To assess MARS results all the above has to be

Astsrology



68
studied, balanced and finally to be concluded, including
Navamsa and dasas.
DISCUSSION ON ANALYSIS OF HOROSCOPE.

Astrology is such a vast ocean of knowledge that if
we make a conclusion after analysis, often we find it going
wrong. We would not have studied few more hidden
elements essential for correct prediction, or wrongly
assessed strength, aspects etc. This is quiet a prevalent
experience among many astrologers. Thus a saying was
developed in hindi.

SHASTRA SACH HAI, LEKIN
SHASTREE JHOOTH HO SAKTA HAI
The subject being a part of ‘VEDA’, is sacred and

perfect. But the imperfectness and deficiencies exist only
in Astrologers. True masters with deep insights and high
level of predicting abilities are very rare.

Now, let us see why it is so.
1. The subject is glorious and complex.
Astrology as a subject is vast and complex. As

explained earlier, we have to study the planets, placements.
Yogas, karakatwas, star lords, aspects, navamsa,
Akshtakavarga and finally transists and co ordinate all the
findings from above and finalise the results. And for timing
of the results, the maha dasa and antardasa & vidashas have
to be studied.

Astsrology



69
The birth time has to be correct. If ascendant changes

due to wrong birth time, all the results go wrong. To clear
the doubt, past major events have to be correlated to dasas
and the correct time can be arrived at by using the technique
of Birth Time Rectification.

In many cases, great yogas in a horoscope were
found not actively realising in life, because from Moon, if
verified (Moon as Ascendant) it should not project as an
Avayoga chart. If Moon is severely damaged by malefics
and dusthana lords, then all the yogas of the chart lose their
strength.

This can be practically understood, Moon is
emotional intelligence & control which is essential to
achieve any tough or great job and succeed. If Moon is
damaged, he can not manage himself, leave alone managing
affairs of other people. He is not aware of his own negative
emotions. He can not succeed in great activities.

Similarly if ascendent and the karaka SUN are
afflicted, his body can not co operate with him for tougher
and higher actions in life.

Hence in a horoscope, initially the Ascendent, lord,
Moon and SUN have to be studied carefully before going
towards further analysis.

2. The Analysis is an ‘ART’
Co ordinating all the parameters assessing the basic

direction of the horoscope, yogas, Avayogas and yoga bhaga
situations and getting a final result for prediction is truely
a big art.

Astsrology



70
We can call it a tight rope walk since any element

missed or mis read would greatly alter the final out come.
That’s why many say that an astrologer with more

than 50% success rate is supposed to be good astrologer.
The planets in “Mrityu Bhaga (Death degree) would

give only 20% of their expected results. Each planet has a
death degree in all Rashis. If this is ignored (many do not
check this element) and the planet we are studying happens
to be in death degree, which we are not aware, then outcome
would be surely wroug.

SUN in neecha Rashi (Libra) if repeated in Navamsa,
will not be considered as Vargothama benefic, but becomes
a potent weapon to destroy the yogas of the horoscope.
Similarly SUN in the same libra, in the 10th degree (parama
neecha bhaga) is potent enough to bring down the level of
the horoscope. This is sarva yoga bhanga condition.

All such intricacies have to be rememberd and
applied before concluding the study of any horoscope.

3. The Prediction requires blessing.
The subject of Astrology is based on INTUITION

rather than INTELLECT. A prediction has two parts. The
first is the general structure and direction of the future life,
covering finances, profession, marriage, children etc. The
second part is about a specific event from the above main
fields of life and also an accurate timing of the event. The
timing depends on the thorough knowl;edge of the subject
as well as of the transits, in co ordination with antardasa &
vidasas.

Astsrology



71
Many of the Astrologers falter in giving accurate

predictions because of two reasons. One is not being
thorough in the subject. The second reason is not being
pious and pure and thus not able to attract the divine
blessings towards successful predictious.

Astrology is a divine subject between Man and
GOD. Not all can become experts. The ability to predict
correctly would increase with time only if he is doing
upaasana, dhyana etc with pure mind to invoke the blessings
from above.

The subject itself is so complex that it goes beyond
the stage of simple and straight rules. Following are few of
the details explaining the uniqueness of the subject of
Astrology in contract to any other subject.

Unique Qualities & nature of Astrology.
1. Many of the elements, equations and yogas follow

the logical rules of Astrology : But all such rules are
thousands in number.  If the logic is properly assimilated,
then one need not remember so many rules. One can arrive
at then logically.

2. Some combinations do not follow the logical
rules, But those combinations are true and work well
certified by rishis and experts. We can’t arrive at such a
combination through the Astro-logic. The only method is
to remember all of them though they run into hundreds of
combinations.

Astsrology



72
3. There are few combinational yogas and Avayogas

which are against the normal logic of Astrology. We have
to carefully remember them and notice while studying a
horoscope.

4. There are few combinational yogas involving
multiple planets. This also does not follow any logical rules
of Astrology. All have to be remembered to the extent
possible.

5. If one adds, all the rules, principles combinations,
yogas, Avayogas, they together run into more than 7000
numbers. A continouos practice and improvement would
enhance the efficiency in remembering and noticing.

6. Even if you apply all the principles few of the
charts can not be finalised and conclusions could be wrong.
A multiple yoga chart owner might be leading a miserable
life and a weak chart owner might be seen as enjoying a
good & happy life. The secret in such cases (provided the
timing of birth is correct) lies in the varga charts. The Rasi
does not neveal the actual life situations, in such cases.
But such situations also do not occur frequently.

Astsrology



73
6. ANALYSIS OF A HOROSCOPE
Detailed analysis of a horoscope is not in the

purview and purpose of this book. A brief introduction is
being given to make the book complete in all aspects. Vast
literature is already available for detailed analysis of a
horoscope. Interested persons can pursue further with the
help of such books in the market.

What we have to understand is that the horoscope is
not granted by God to us. It is selected by us, Yes, In the
spirit form (As Aatma) after the end of the present life. We
check out the suitability of conditions for our next birth.
This would be based on a complex equation of prarabda
karma results of the just finished birth, coupled with the
ripened seed karma from the storehouse of sanchita karma.

A family, place and circumstances would be selected
to clear above selected karma. The horoscope generated at
the time of the birth would reflect all details.

OUR SOUL SELECTED OUR PRESENT
HOROSCOPE

That’s why in our lives, we should remember that
for all the pain, cheating and suffering, the responsibility
is fundamentally ours and others become responsible only
at secondary level. Hence the pleasures & happiness which
are destined for us, become our right to enjoy for ourselves.

It is not out of place to remember here that many
great spiritual masters have explained that a soul enters into
the human body in around the 3rd month of pregnancy. And
since then it has the awareness of past karmas and purpose

Astsrology



74
of this birth. The soul makes a self promise that it shall do
only good and no bad in the present life, after being born.
But when birth takes place as per the divine rule, the
VISHNUMAYA engulfs the baby and the mortal life begins
in ignorance and the life’s journey unfolds as per the
horoscope.

Now, The Analysis of Horoscope,
First let us see what are the benefic and malefic

planets.
1. Natural benefic planets are

Jupiter
Venus
Mercury (without malefic association)
Moon (Sukla paksha)

2. Natural malefic planets are
Saturn
Mars
Mercury with malefics
Moon (Krishna paksha)
Rahu & Ketu

By nature, the malefic planets are more in number
compared to the benefics. In most of the lives, the grief is
more than happiness. This is the reality of life.

3. The functional malefics are any planets having
lordship of bhavas 3,6,8,11,12 and also natural benefics
owning bhavas 1,4,7 and 10.

4. The functional benefic planets are those owning
bhavas 1,5,9 and also the natural malefic planets owning
1,4,7,10 bhavas.

Astsrology



75
The most important locations in a horoscope are

called Kendras (Angles) which are 1,4,7,10 bhavas. These
are called Vishnu sthanas. If natural benefic planets are
placed in these bhavas, it is extremely good.

After the above, the next most important locations
are called Kona sthanas (trines). These are also called
“Lakshmi sthanas”. They are 1,5 and 9 any planet in these
bhavas is good and the lordship of above bhavas also is good
for any planet. Any combination of Kendra and Kona planets
casuses’Yoga”.

The next are “Upachaya Bhavas” which are 3,6,10,11
bhavas. Natural malefics placed in these bhavas give
beneficial results. These are the bhavas which gradually give
improved results with time.

The next are called “dusthanaas” or bad houses. They
are 6,8,12 bhavas .

6th is Satru, Roga, Runa bhava
8th is Mrityu, Randhra bhava
12th is Vyaya, bandhana bhava
Any benefic planets placed in these bhavas lose their

strength and can’t give results. Malefics cause troubles.
The lord planets of the above bhavas, where ever they are
placed, are potent enough to destroy that bhavas. Hence
while studying a horoscope, special attention is given to
these bhavas and lords.
THE METHOD OF EXAMINING A HOROSCOPE

The following elements have to be studied basically
to get a grip of the horoscope and its status, before going
ahaead to study comprehensively.

Astsrology



76
1. Ascendent
2. Moon
3. General placement of Planets.
4. 9th, 10th, 7th bhavas & lords.
5. 4th and 5th & end of life

1. The Ascendant .
The ascendant is the Rashi sign  rising on the eastern

horizon when one is born. The ascendant rashi and bhava
karakatwas are applicable to the person throughout the life.
If the lagna point is in first two degrees or last two degrees,
then the birth time correction has to be tried to clear any
doubts so that the rashi is not changed.

Next step is to check whether any planet is placed
in ascendant or if any planet is aspecting the ascendant from
any other rashi. If so that would modify the qualities and
results of the ascendant.

Next important thing is to see where the lord of the
ascendant is placed. That placement decides and defines
the direction of our life. The ascendant lord gives its power
to the star in which it is placed. So that star lord plays a key
role in that perosns life, where he is placed and what he is
bound to do in what dirction, have to be studied. And also
the planets conjoining or aspecting the ascendant lord and
its star lord have to be carefully studied for either positive
or negative effects.

The physical personality can be assessed from the
ascendant combinations but the mental attitude and nature

Astsrology



77
can be known only by the assessment of 4th bhava, 4th lord,
Moon & Mercury.

2. The MOON
After the ascendant, the Moon is the most important

element to be studied in a horoscope. It represents a focal
point in the chart next only to ascedant. when birth time is
not at all available then such charts are studied with Moon
as ascendant. maharshi’s have called it “ Chandra Lagna
Jatakam”.

Strength of the Moon is one of the most important
elements not only of a horoscope but also for human
psychology. Because Moon is a karaka for MANAS
(emotions and stability). When moon is ill placed and
affected by malefics, then the emotions in the mind are
under attack. Then the mind efficiency and stability are
drastically reduced. This is the reason when moon is spoiled
in a horoscope the yogas formed also become powerless
and can’t give results.

When Moon is strong and a yoga forms well both
with ascendant and moon, the power of yoga gets amplified
and such yoga / planet gives extra ordinary results.

The combinations for mental afflictions,
psychiratric problems, lunacy surely are due to Moon,.
Mercury, 5th lord planet getting affected by malefics and
dusthanas.

Now let us see how moon gets affected by different
placements.

Astsrology



78
Strong Positions :
- Placement in TAURUS - Exaltation.
- Placement in CANCER - Own house.
- Shukla paksha Moon.
- Opposing ‘SUN’ is pournami
- conjoining or kendra to Jupiter - Gaja kesari Yoga
- conjoining or aspects by VENUS, Mercury.
- Being in Anafa, Sunafa, Durudhara Yoga
- Being in Subhakartari Yoga
- Placed in Kendra or Konas.
Weak positions :
- Placement in dusthanas
- The Krishna paksha Moon
- Conjoining with Sun - Amavasya
- Conjoining or aspect by ‘SATURN’ is punarphoo

Yoga
- Conjoining or aspect by Mars, Rahu, Ketu
- Amavasya with Rahu / Ketu - Sampourna Surya

grahanam
- On pournami with Rahu / Ketu - sampoorna chandra

  grahanam
- In scorpio - Neecha Rasi
Hence, a strongly placed Moon is an asset to the

Astsrology



79
horoscope as well as to the human psychology. The star in
which ‘Moon is placed, is called the “Janma Nakshatra”
(Birth star). The Maha dasas are calculated based on this
position of Moon only.

3. General Placement of Planets.
The placement of planets is important individually

as well as in combination, since they give rise to yogas.
The important general placements are given below.

1. The natural benefics should occupy Kendra, Kona
positions.
2. The natural malefics should occupy the upachaya
bhavas.
3. The dusthanas should be free of planets.
4. The planets preferably should be in exalted,
Moola trikona, own rashi or atleast a friends rashi.
5. Neecha Rasi planets are not good.
6. Navamsa position of planets to be strong.
7. No planet to be in “Gandantha star pada”.
8. Checking for combustion of planets.
9. Check for various Yogas, Avayogas.
10. Finally assess the direction of the horoscope

and status.
4. 9th, 10th & 7th Bhavas.
Now, we shall discuss as per my opinion, the most

important bhavas in a horoscope. All bhavas are surely

Astsrology



80
important equally since all of them signify different
elements. But these are the bhavas which raise the status
of a horoscope.

9th bhava : For any human activity to be successful,
a subtle divine blessing is a must. It works in such a way so
as to adjust the circumstances to lead the activity towards
success. This we in human language call as LUCK
( ADRISHTA). This is represented by 9th bhava and its lord.
The 9th bhava, planets in 9th bhava, aspects to 9th bhava,
9th lord’s star lord and its placement are all to be assessed
to finally conclude about the quantum of luck and which
area in life becomes lucky. If the ascendant lord is
associated with 9th lord and placed in kendra or kona itself
is called ‘ Lakshmi Yoga’ enabling the flowering of Luck
throughout life.

Now we shall see what is luck formation
astrologically. There are basically three situations arising
due to different placements of 9th lord, as given below.

1. Having luck : The 9th bhava has a benefic planet
in it and the 9th lord is either in kendras or in 2nd or 11th
bhavas, or is in exalted or own rasi, and being aspected by
benefic planets.

In such a condition we can say that he has luck. In
general, whatever activity he takes up, will be supported by
fate and  we can call him a fortunate person.

2. Not having luck : No benefic in 9th bhava. The
9th lord not connected with any planet and himself not
placed well. Here the luck has become weak. We say he

Astsrology



81
does not have luck and his efforts would not be supported
by luck. So to achieve normal results, he has to put
enormous efforts.

3. Having Bad luck : This is the worst of the
conditions. The condition of planets would be, a great
malefic in 9th bhava (Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu) and the 9th
lord is in 8th, 12th or 6th bhava conjoined by malefice
planets. This is the combination for Bad luck. Any activity
taken up would face obstacles or it shall be negated. Nothing
substatial can be built in life. We call him a person with
bad luck. But such combinations yield results on spiritual
plance. To be checked carefully.

10th bhava : This is the place of society. Like the
SUN Shines at mid day, the life shines due to this bhava,
10th bhava madhyama corresponds to 12 ‘O’ Clock mid
day position. Any Planet gives good result in this bhava.
This is the most important of Kendra bhavas as well as it is
an upachaya bhava also. The 10th lord being in dusthanas is
an avayoga called “Duryoga”. He will struggle for job and
existance.

For a bright career, name and fame, fortification of
this bhava in the horoscope is a must.

Now we shall see different conditions, w.r.to 10th
bhava.

- If either Jupiter or Venus alone are placed in 10th
bhava, it is called “Amala” yoga. He gets a good name in
society.

Astsrology



82
- Mars in own rasi or exaltation in 10th bhava (giving

rise to Ruchaka Mahapurusha Yoga) is actually a
“Vamshodharaka Yoga”. He comes up and uplifts all his
people.

- The combination of 9th lord and 10th lord gives
rise to the best class of yoga called “Dharma Karmodhipati
yoga”.

- The apex level of above yoga forms when 9th and
10th lords get inter changed (Parivartana yoga). Such a
person before leaving this world, would have left an imprint
in society in a particular field. An example is Dr. B.V. Raman
who, with his lifelong work, brought a respectable status
to “Indian Astrology” in modern times.

- If 2nd bhava and 11th bhava are connected to 10th
bhava (or lords), one earns enormous riches in his
profession.

- More than one malefic in 10th bhava, would bring
down the status towards the end.

The 7th bhava : In olden days, 7th bhava was
considered most important for women. Those days,
seperate profession for a woman was unthinkable and she
never had nay exclusive income.

Those days if a woman had to become rich was
through marriage only. Only through 7th bhava. But now a
days it has become important for both males and females
since it is a marriage bhava and also business partnership
and relationship bhava.

Astsrology



83
Generally, astrologers prefer the 7th bhava to be free

of any planet. 7th bhava is a “Kamasthana” also. Except
Jupiter, every planet shows up some peculiarities in 7th
bhava. So no planet is a good condition. In a male chart,
connection of mercury, saturn or keta to 7th bhava causes
“Napumsaka Yoga”.

In a female chart if 7th bhava and 8th bhava
(Mangalya sthana for females) are free of planets and 7th
lord is fortified, then she would have a good marital life
with good husband and children.

4th & 5th bhava : All the above bhavas explained
are very important. But many may differ. Because for many
of us, there is a tendency in mind, that whatever we got in
life, we take it for granted. The whole concentration is on
those aspects which are lacking in our lives.

That’s why a person who wants money, would value
dhana (2) bhava one who wants meditation, would value
dhyana (12) bhava.

As per the opinion of some experts, for a peaceful
existence, 4th and 5th bhavas are extremely important. We
shall see how.

4th bhava : This is basically defined as
“Sukhasthana” in astrology. This is also the bhava for house
and lands and also education. All these are essential for
happy living. If Jupiter alone is placed in 4th bhava without
any blemish, he is capable of giving all the above mentioned
elements.

Astsrology



84
If karaka Moon is in strength and a benefic is in 4th

bhava or with 4th lord, life would be happy and peaceful.
5th bhava : If 9th bhava is previous generation, 1st

bhava is myself, then the 5th bhava is the next generation.
That is my children.

This is also the bhava for wisdom (Viveka), games
and mantra sidhi. All these are required in a persons later
part of life.

A cinema is called a good movie only if second half
and climax is good. Similarly, whatever struggles we
undergo initially, if the later life and end of life is happy
and peaceful, we can call it good life. This depends on 5th
bhava (Santana bhava) and the 4th bhava (Sukha sthana).

When we struggle and bring up our children, they
take off and become better than us, we surely would feel
satisfied and happy. Otherwise if they don’t come up and
we have to take up their responsibility, that would disturb
us throughout our remaining life. Hence strengthening of
5th bhava, lord and karaka Jupiter are essential for a peaceful
later life.

End of life :
- Chaturtha (4th) is the charamanka means the last

10 years of life.
- 8th bhava drekkona decides the way we should exit

from the world.
- But if planets exist in 8th bhava, they decide the

exit. If unspoilt VENUS exists in 8th bhava, one dies
Astsrology



85
peacefully in sleep.

- The 12th bhava is moksha bhava.
- The ‘loka’ we travel to, is indicated by planet in

12th bhava if no planet exists, by the 12th lord.

Astsrology



86
7. MARRIAGE MATCHING

A man and a woman spend 2/3 of their lives as a
married couple. Along with experiencing the marriage bliss
they also hold the responsibility of domestic life, taking
care of elders and also preparing the children to be
responsible citizens.

Misunderstanding, ego, financial and family
problems crop up but when they reach severe levels, they
break the marriage causing suffering to every one around.

The Karaka planet for the marriage/wife is VENUS.
The husband Karaka planet for women is MARS, but some
consider Jupiter. The 7th bhava is the bhava for marriage.

The 7th bhava, its lord, and karaka VENUS together
play a role in marriage and its success / failure. The 8th
bhava for women is the “mangalya sthana”. This also plays
a big role in marital relationships. The woman with benefic
planet in 8th bhava dies before her husband (“Sumangali
Yoga”).

The astrologers started a practice of matching the
horosocpes of boy and girl before marriage, to esnure a
successful marriage. This today has become a big bussiness
running into crores of rupees.

First of all, we should remember that no maharshi
in history has followed this theory. The authority for
astrology BPHS does not mention about it. It started
relatively recently and due to its theoritical efficacy, was
propogated by the commercial minded astrologers. Due

Astsrology



87
to the public anxiety about marriages, and fears of mothers
and fathers, it got entreanched permanently. There are very
few families who perform marriages without looking into
horoscopes. Today unfortunately it is a big business.

I have personally seen few families, known to each
other, waited to come together through marriage. They
almost decide and finally their family astrologer breaks it
saying that the horoscopes don’t match. Both parties get
disappointed but follow the astrologers advice.

Now, who has verified his knowledge level and
success rate? None. There is no past record to analyse.
Surely many couples whom he matched astrologically
would have faced problems or even seperated by divorce
or death. There is no record to verify.

If we consider our life to be the hand writing of
“Bramha”, then the concluding signature is our death. The
marital life is the area where he plans to clear the majority
of our prarabda karma through difficult situations and
problems, in the domestic life.

We have seen the sloka before, that “Pasu patnee
sutaalaya” are happening by “ Runanubandha roopena” by
marriage matching process, we are in a way obstructing
“Bramhajis” plan and almost taking his place to decide our
lives. This is wrong. And what happens if we try to do like
that, we learnt from the episodes of Narada and Garutmanta.

Finally a couple with “Runaanubandham” only would
join to form a family.

Astsrology



88
Maharshis have mentioned that if there are two

persons in previous lives with severe enemity. Bramhaji
with a plan to reduce their negative karma in just one life
instead of multiple lives, makes them daily fightening
husband and wife in the present life. Enemity increased
further becomes cause for further lives. we read the story
of chennabasappa and veerabhadrappa the frog and snake
story of enemity from the life story of sadguru shiridi sai
baba.

Such is the complex equation of one relationship
which comprehensively only ‘Bramha’ can understand. How
can we mortals understand the equation spanning multiple
lives? Just impossible.

In a way our madness about horoscope matching is
convenient to ‘ Bramha’ to take a decision. Since till the
correct karmic match comes, all others have to be negated.

1. The boy’s negates some and the boys parents
negate some.

2. The girl’s negates some and the girls parents
negate some.

3. When all social parameters match and everybody
accepts the family astrologer negates due to non matching
of horoscopes.

In my opinion, what is successfully decided by
horoscope matching also happen to be ‘Karmic couple’. In
any which way, it is a Karmic couple coming together.
Hence marriage matching becomes a futile exercise.

Astsrology



89
For marriage, traditionally one has to see the boy,

girl, their family backgrounds, physical qualities, mental
abilities, social reputation, financial status, careers etc and
finally if boy and girl accept each other, they can happily
go ahead. If any problem crops up, then along with wise
thinking, the horoscopes also can be consulted. Any
problems can be solved with MIND power and divine
blessings.

Astrologically speaking, if I am represented by
ascendant, then 7th is my wife bhava. The 7th by nature,
happens to be enemy bhava to ascendant. Hence by marriage,
I am getting an enemy in the form of wife, into my house.
It is funny but true.

If 7th bhava and lord are fortified by benefic planets,
the marriage life would be comfortable. But it is rarely
supported in such a manner. Hence problems do exist at
different levels which have to be solved or atleast adjusted.

As it is we can understand that no two random minds
can automatically match. Adjustments and compensations
have to be implemented.

Inspite of many differences in personalities, many
wise people in Indian middle class aere leading successful
marital lives based on the awareness of neccesity of
adjustments and also due to the feeling of responsibility
towards the institution of marriage. This is due to the
wisdom created in them by the samskara of Hindu dharma
and also other dharmas. Hats off to all such humble beings.

Astsrology



90
“The excessive unwanted importance of “Kuja

Dosham”.
The “Kuja Dosham” is not to be found in the standard

astrological texts. It is  said that “Kuja dosham” exists if
MARS is placed in 2,4,7,8,12 bhavas of a horoscope. Some
include 1 bhava also. Some go further and say that the above
bhavas to be checked from Moon and Venus also. If truely
checked, we won’t find any body without kuja dosham.
Hence, for our discussion, let us limit Kuja doshan from
ascendant only.

I like to relate a personal experience w.r.to Kuja
dosham and we can know how even big astrologers
sometimes falter in deciding the presence of Kuja dosham.

I took a family (Horoscope of a girl to be married)
to a reputed astrologer in secunderabad. He had a look into
the horoscope and said that there is 100% Kuja dosham
and suggested series of remedies and also analysed other
things in the horoscope. The parents with me were not fully
satisfied (may be the 100% Kuja doshan was unexpected).

Then, to satisfy them, I took them to another reputed
astrologer in Hyderabad in the same car immediately.

He studied the horoscope and said there is almost
no “Kuja dosham”. Few other things were said by him and
we came out after paying the fees.

I was taken aback at the difference between the
conclusions by both. Both of them are aged, reputed and
also wrote books. Persons at such level of knowledge falter

Astsrology



91
like this then common man loses confidence on the subject.

The Parents of course jokingly remarked that there
was “Kuja dosham” in secundrabad and it disappeared when
we stepped into Hyderabad.

I too did not have a thorough knowledge of the
subject at that time, to understand what would have made
then to conclude like that. But presently when I analyse, I
can see that.

The first astrologer who said there was 100% Kuja
dosha simply looked at MARS which was in 8th bhava. It is
a mangalya dosha. But no malefic is aspecting it. And he
failed to correlate that Venus is placed in 12th bhava along
with RAHU and the 4th lord, which is a major ‘Sukra
dosham’. Hence giving 100% to MARS in this horoscope
is wrong, since VENUS also is afflicted. So he concluded
hastily without going into depth.

The second pundit depended on various dictuns
given in texts for compensation conditions of Kuja dosham.

Based on those principles, he concluded that almost
there is no Kuja dosham. But these rules were not given by
maharshis and I found them not working well in many
circumstances.

Thus we can see that both these pundits were some
what correct and hasty in conclusion. As an expert rightly
said that study of Astrology creates an illusion that one has
become an expert and feels ‘No more’ Knowledge is
required. But ‘ know more’ is a truth applicable always.

Astsrology



92
Everybody is a student till the end. The lesson from above
episode is that even if you are an expert astrologer, if you
are not alert while seeing a horoscope, you are bound to
falter.

Now, the details about KUJA DOSHAM.
Mars, is a strong planet representing Anger,

agression, emotions, sex energy weapons and blood.
Let us examine the bhavas where if MARS is placed,

give rise to Kuja Dosham.
1. Family place 2nd bhava
The talk becomes strong without diplomacy, interest

in arguements. excess expenditure. There are fights in the
family quiet frequently.

2. Domestic (Gruha) place : 4th bhava
Mars here in dwelling place causes depressions,

dullness, misunderstandings and family fights among the
members. 4th mars is suitable for gain of lands.

3. Marriage place : 7th bhava
This is the marriage and partnership place. Mars here

damages the relationship with ego, arguements, agression.
The partner is tough to manage. If other malefics aspect or
associate, then seperation takes place.

4. Mangalya sthana : 8th bhava
Mars here is very bad for women since it is a

Astsrology



93
husbands location in a woman’s chart. It tries to take away
the mangalya. Mars here if aspected or associated with
malefics, tries to kill the husband, making the woman a
widow. The person with mars in 8th bhava also is very tough
in mind, not allowing any compromises.

5. Vyaya bhava - 12th bhava
with respect to the marital subject, this is a location

of bed comforts, misunderstanding, non compatibility,
arguements do happen. Mars in 12th gives excessive talk
and expenditure. If causes also bandhana yoga.

Now if we study the above bhavas and we replace
Mars with Saturn, SUN, Rahu, Ketu, similar problems at a
different scale can be experienced. Since Mars is a karaka
for agression, MARS is more a malefic than others w.r.to
marital relationships.

In astrology, there are three planets which are called
“Terrorist Planets”. They are SUN, SATURN and RAHU. If
they are placed alone in any bhava, they act like terrorists.
That is, they don’t allow good results from that bhava to be
realised.

While analysing a horoscope, the lone placement
of terrorist planets have to be analysed carefully.

Now the above situation happens in 7th bhava, the
effect would be as serious as that of MARS placement.

So, ignoring the effects of all such planets and giving
excessive importance to only MARS in the name of “Kuja
Dosham” is wrong.

Astsrology



94
In fact, the total elements to be studied in a

horoscope for marriage matters are
- 7th bhava & 7th lord
- 8th bhava & 8th lord
- Venus as Karaka
- Mars as husband karaka
- Navamsa chart
- 7th lord in a star & Navamsa
- coordination with Dasas
- Transits affecting 7th & 8th
The Mars and the terrorist planets have to be referred

w.r.to all above elements Ketu also plays an important role
in marital affairs as shown below.

KETU :
- He acts like Mars for flare up of situations &

sudden events.
- He causes “disinterest” wherever he is placed

alone.
- He causes fires, suicides and instills “Sadism”.
- He is a “Napumsaka” planet along with mercury

and saturn.
When parameters are so many as explained above,

Astsrology



95
the analysis becomes complex and conclusion is difficult.
It becomes a challenge for Astrologer to predict in a correct
manner.

Simple and sincere remedies can be carried out by
the person, depending on which planet is predominant in
troubling. Graha stotra pathanam and the deity archana are
the simple remedies which can be followed by any body
Universally.

Astsrology



96
8. REMIDIES & REALITIES

A ‘remedy’ is a request made to the Almighty with
humility to reduce the suffering when it becomes
unbearable. It shall be heard and answered if carried out as
ordained by shastras and with pure “Antahkarana”.

But people have become so scared and sensitive
about problems, that they run to astrologers for each and
every problem that crops up in life. They forget that we
have to face the problem physically mentally and spiritually
ourselves first and then only stepout for an astrological
consultation, if the problem is beyond our capability.

today, the remedies business is running into
multiples of crores of rupees. For every problem, a point
to point, pooja stone, hornam, abhishekam etc are shown
and hefty fees is collected. Nobody can verify the succecc
rate.

slowly, when the business got entrenched, the
‘LURE’ and ‘SCARE’ methods have been adopted to further
increase the business. for example,
-If you do this pooja, homam with us, (or buy a stone from
us) all your problems shall be solved, you will succeed
and be peaceful.

--- This is ‘LURE’ method.
- If you do not do this pooja/homam with us, or don’t wear
a suggested stone, your suffering will increase and it will
become unbearable.

Astsrology



97
--- This is ‘SCARE’ method.
We being sensitive, and looking for ‘Hope’ during

our problematic phase shall fall either for LURE or SCARE.
As per shastras, remedial measures can be applied

to Nivaarya Karmas (Amenable for remedies). The anivarya
karmas are dridha Karmas which are result of papakarmas
done with awareness in the previous lives, and hence won’t
change with remedies. An expert astrologer can know the
difference.

The basic principle in remedies is that it won’t avoid
or eliminate the bad event. the severity of the event would
be greatly reduced bringing it down to the withstandable
level. We shall see few examples.

- If a big vehicle accident has to take place resulting
in blood flow & fractures, then it remedies are done, the
accident does take place but with less severe injuries and
treatment in place of surgery.

- An accidental knife piercing incident requiring
stitches, may be converted to blade cuts.

- A poisonous snake bite may be replaced by scorpion
bite. But if he is destined to die by snake bite, then that
cannot be avoided.

Many such examples can be given The change truely
happens, when correct remedies are carried out with a
sincere approach.

Astsrology



98
THE GEM STONES:

usage of precious Gem stones as a remedy
works very well ( if not as a Gem stone, it acts as a ‘placebo’
effect) . only if the suggestion for the gem stone is correct
and the  stone is not a fake one.

The deception in Gem stones is taking place because
on many occassions the receiver and also the seller may
not know that the stone is either a defective one or a fake
one or sometimes simply a glass piece.

First of all it is very tricky and intricate act to select
a suitable Gem stone from a horoscope.

I like to give a live example which happened in my
life, over a period of time. without my intention, the whole
exercise took shape as a good experiment and teaches all
of us a great lesson.

In the 90’s, when I was continuously in the study of
Astrology, and remedies, I discovered that a particular ABC
jewellers (Name changed) of chennai were doing great
business selling precious stones as remedies.

Their “modus Operandi” goes like this. They have a
batch of Astrologers with them. If we send a single page
horoscope, they charge Rs100 and suggest a stone. If  we
do not have a horoscope, and send birth details, then they
charge Rs300 and suggest astone, by getting a computer
print of horoscope.

Their actual business is not in the Rs100 or Rs300
as above. The stones which we are buying from them cost

Astsrology



99
between Rs3000 and Rs10000. They were doing roaring
business in those days.

I myself was reasonably knowledgeable about
Gemstones. I was not wearing any. I got curious, and sent a
single page horoscope with my name as C.VASUDEV
requesting them for the suggestion of a stone for me.

They replied and asked me to wear a ‘Coral’ which
is the stone for MARS.

This is a wrong stone for me because of the
following astrological reason.

My ascendant is scorpio. The lagna lord Mars is in
ARIES, and is aspected by saturn. with this strength ( 6th
and aspect of saturn) he was already causing satru, Roga
problems heavily. If the strength is increased by wearing a
coral, the intensity of the problems could increase. This
would have worked with Mars in scorpio, leo or virgo.

He blindly selected a stone for Lagna lord without
indepth analysis. I wrote a letter to him, asking as to what
was the basis for his selection? He replied saying sir, we
can’t discuss all such things with every client. We have a
team of expert astrologers please believe in us and use the
stone and you will be prosperous. I just left the matter at
that.

After 6 months, I suddenly remembered again and
sent a single page horoscope with name as V.Chenna Reddy
instead of C.Vasudev, to escape their data base search.

Astsrology



100
This time, the suggestion was “Emerald”, the stone

for Mercury. If previous suggestion was wrong, then this
present suggestion is a “Blunder”.

Mercury for scorpio ascendent is “Maha papi” as
lord of 8th and 11th bhava and as ‘Varga Satru’. He causes
destruction if sitting alone which is the condition in my
horoscope. By wearing emerald, he would have caused more
severe destruction.

The blind/shortcut decision this time by the
astrologer was either as rasi lord (Gemini Rasi) or the
Mahadasa lord. That’s all.

By now I understood the process and hence did not
write any letter to them.

Again after 6 months, I repeated the exercise, out
of curiosity and changed the name to C.V.Reddy.

This time the suggestion was ‘Gomedha’ (Hessonite)
for the planet Rahu.

This is another mistake. Rahu is varga satru for
scorpio and is badly placed in dhanasthana. wearing his
stone, he would have functioned more negatively.

The shortcut method or a blind method of
suggestion done was the stone for birth star lord. My birth
star is ‘Arudra’, lord is Rahu. That’s all.

Neither the astrologers, nor the owners of the
jewellers knew that wrong stones are being suggested left
and right. Probably there was no negative feed back. If they

Astsrology



101
get hold of one success case, they give him money, take
interview and do the propoganda through TV’s.

On 3 occasions, I got 3 different suggestions which
were totally wrong. I had the awareness hance I escaped
from the trap but many innocent people who are already
suffering get more trouble and who can save them?

The above episode indicates how difficult and tricky
it is to decide which stone to wear for which horoscope.
Now another most unfortunate aspect is that the market is
filled with fake and defective gem stones. If one wants,
they provide a lab certificate and that also is fake. The buyer
can never findout and in many cases even the seller also
does not know he was selling fake stones.

That means, first of all, we should get a correct
reading from horoscope and get a genuine stone from
among the jungle of fake/ defective stones. surprisingly
all the failure of results experienced due to the above, we
are ignorantly blaming the sacred subject of Astrology.

The correct rule for Gem-stone selection.
The functional benefic planet (preferably 1,5 or 9th

lords) is positioned for doing good, but lacks strength, then
to increase its strength, the Gem stone of such a planet has
to be worn. This is a fundamental principle but the following
also are to be verified.

-Few horoscopes which are operating well without
disturbance have to be left as it is. Gemstone, though good,
may disturb the equilibrium of that chart. No gem stone in

Astsrology



102
such a case is   to be suggested. -wearing a wrong gem
stone has to be avoided at any cost. the events and the mind
to be observed for atleast 6 months to assess negative
effects.

One person who came to me was wearing the stone
for the most dangerous planet in his horoscope. After
removal, after 6 months, we found 70% of his problems
disappeared.

Coming back to the discussion on remedies, most
of the simple remedies one can do oneself. Nobody else
need be there between myself and GOD. It is purely a karma
relationship between me, the planet and GOD.

Following are the simple remedies. One can do
oneself easily.

1. Every planet has a two line ‘Stotras’ given in every
“Panchangam”. This stotra can be recited 108 times every
day in the morning.

2. There is a deity for every planet. On the suitable
day of the week, one can go to the temple and do archana
with bhakti.

Planet Deity
SUN - SUN GOD (Aditya)
MOON - Parvathi Mata
MARS - Subrahmanya Swami

Astsrology



103
Anjaneya Swami
Narasimha swami

MERCURY - Vishnu bhagavan
JUPITER - Dattatreya
VENUS - Lakshmi Devi
SATURN - Shankara
RAHU - Durga Devi

peddamma
KETU - Vighneswara
3. There are ‘things’ and ‘ cereals’ represented by

various planets. They have to be given in ‘alms’ (Danam)
on the particular day of the planet.

4. If found suitable, to wear a “Gem stone”. It shall
act atleast as a ‘PLACEBO’.

5. To Psychologically fill the mind with
“Ammavaru”. All the planets and the whole cosmos is in
her control.

The king and Queen of the planets, the SUN and
MOON are her “Ear Rings” as per the lalitha sahasra namam.
(“Tatanka Yugalee”). If you are a kid in her lap, you can play
with planets.

Astsrology



104
9. ASTROLOGY & SADGURUS

The “sadgurus” in their speeches or books always
have been discouraging people to know about astrology.
They projected astrology and its practice, a weakness and
always tried to prevent the people from becoming fatalistic.
But they themselves were wise enough to understand about
astrology and its place in the whole structure of life.

For this discouraging attitude of greatmen, there are
strong reasons which they very well knew. We shall see all
that but first let us see what these great men have actually
said about Astrology.

1. Napolean : Holding the knife on to the palm and
talking to his Army general, “look simon, they say, if a line
exists somewhere here, I would be winning many wars. Tell
me where it should be. I will just now create it myself with
this knife.”

2. Swami Vivekananda : What are planets? What
can they do to me? I would not allow anybody to control
my actions. I am a free spirit. Whatever I want to acheive, I
shall achieve, with my thinking and actions.

3. Jesus christ : My dear loving disciples, All your
life functions are revealed in the world of stars up above.
But be aware, to know them is prohibited for you.

4. Bhagavan Ramana : Praranda karma is true. The
planetary functions are as ordained by GOD. But why do
you bother about all these? If you know who you are and
get the advaitha Jnana, you will know everything.

Astsrology



105
5. The Holy Quran : If you are a fortune teller and

a star worshipper, then all that what is received by the
prophet from Allah, is not finding a place in your mind.

6. Sadguru jaggi vasudev : If you know the result
of tomorrow, the game of life you are supposed to play
today will not be played well. Please know that prediction
is match fixing.

But all these elevated souls know that if higher truths
are given to immature minds, without preperation then the
normal people.

1. Understand the purpose wrongly and get spoiled.
2. They get used to inaction & laziness.
3. They scare people and earn money.
These Sadgurus discourage the practice of astrology

only to prevent people from the above 3 damages.
Normal mind would immediately conclude that life

is fated and human action is irrelevant. Understanding the
true essence of Astrology requires high wisdom levels.
Hence wise people show it as a ‘ taboo’ to normal people.

A small story is told by a Sadguru to show
how Astrology affects normal minds easily. There were two
persons A&B in a village. The Village astrloger with good
reputation, told these two persons that both would die 3
months from now.

Person A: Got scared, and he wanted to complete
important activities, but could not, because the grief took

Astsrology



106
over him. He became sick with the thought of approaching
death. With such a severe mental suffering at the said time
he died.

When death was so certain, what benefit did he gain
by knowing it before except for depression and sickness.
No human being can be peaceful if he knows his end point
for certain.

Person B: Underwent a similar time of depression
and sickness. But he didnot die at the stipulated time due
to a wrong calculation by the Astrologer. Then in such a
situation, what can go on in his mind. The whole exercise
becomes a big joke.

If a studious boy is given a prediction that he is
surely going to pass with high marks, it is a natural human
tendency that the boy gets relaxed in his studies.Similarly,
if a boy is told that he is going to fail, has an effect on his
preperation.

As Sadguru said, this is exactly equal to the effect
of “Match fixing.”

The spiritual masters resist from speaking about
astrology, but if we examine their lives, we have fascinating
examples w.r.to Astrology.

In the spiritual classic “Auto biography of a Yogi”,
there is an anecdote where Sri Yukteswara Giri, who was
the Guru of Sri Paramahamsa Yogananda cautions Yogananda
about an impending acute pain of the liver for the disciple.
He said it is going to be due to planetary combinations but

Astsrology



107
not due to any accident or food poisoning. As foretold, the
pain was experienced and with Gurus blessings came to
pass with minimum discomfort.

Kaavya Kantha Ganapathi Muni was one great Yogi
and scholar who gave the name of “Bhagavan” to Sri Ramana
Maharshi. He became an expert in Astrology in his
childhood only.

He grew to become a high level yogi and “Mantra
Vetta.” He competed in the vidwath parishd of Nava dweepa
in Bengal. He won inspite of being the youngest to compete.
They gave the title “Kaavya Kantha” to him.

His mother was pregnent and was expecting delivery.
She called the boy Ganapathi on to the Cot, makes him sit
next to her and she asks a question about her delivery.

The boy “Ganapathi” took it as a “prasna” and
calculates (The transits are taken by heart for that day, in
the morning) and concludes that the question was asked in
the “Marana Ganda time” and the questioner cannot live
beyond delivery.

The lady died during delivery and the boy Ganapathi
had to face the wrath and curses of people around in addition
to the unbearable grief of losing his mother.

Even our ancient texts are full of the examples of
planetary influences. Sri Rama, seeing Jataayu’s plight,
consoles him. Jataayu in turn praises Rama and consoles
him and told him that the muhurtha in which Ravana took
away Sita, has got such a bala or quality that the stolen things

Astsrology



108
finally has to come back to the owner. Itihaasas and puranaas
have such examples w.r.to Astrology.

The antiquity of Astrology is equivalent to VEDAS
which was the first and foremost SRUTI SHASTRAS of
the Hindu dharma.

Astsrology



109
10.  FATE OR FREEWILL

Since time immemorial, there has been a discussion
on the above subject. People formed into groups on either
of the sides for an argument on the above dilema. As many
people believed that life is fated, that many people have
tried to show that it is free will which builds life.

When we study the origin, nature and purpose of
Astrology and consider it as a part of the whole of the Indian
philsophy, we can understand in a subtle way that it is
“neither of them exclusively”, but “both of them together
inclusively”.
FATE INCLUDES FREEWILL
FREEWILL IS DIRECTED BY FATE

The second sentence above was already discussed
under the head “Budhee Karmaanu Sarinee”.

Now let us see the functions at the fundamental
level. How an action is done by any person. Let us put it in
the form of  an ‘equation’.
THOUGHT  --->  AMBITION  ---->  ACTION  =  RESULT
      (1)     (2) (3)       (4)

In Bhagavadgita, it is said that the results of man’s
actions are in divine control. Hence the main teaching of
GITA has been nishkama Karma. Doing the work in a sacred
manner, without any expectation on the results. There is a
proof and historic record that the results might be
unexpected but we appear to have a control of what we do

Astsrology



110
- Humans donot have a total control on the final results of
any activity. Hence the (4th) element in the above equation
surely is not in our control.

Now, coming to elements (1) and (2), they are, as
per the basics of Astrology (Budhee Karmanusarinee) are
in the hands of fate. But we cannot be aware of this when
we select an action to be performed in life. It could be to
our liking only. But in the background that direction of work
(Success or Failure) is supposed to be destined for us.

What we deeply desire to achieve, is linked to the
past karma willing to give result in the present life through
our mind. Though we always want to do what we like, there
is a strong karmic urge behind this liking. Hence we are
directed by our kama to like certain actions and execute
them. So it is not an outright freedom sphere from where
we are operating.

So, the remaining portion of equation is no.3  that
is ‘Action’ or ‘karma’, to be done in the present life. The
action is being done by us but the liking and desire to do
the action and the results have karmie control over them.
Hence we should do the work dispassionately without any
desire for results. This is exactly being taught by the sacred
GITA. Do your work as a “karma yogi”.

There is a small story to explain the fate and free
will, how they are interwoven.

Astsrology



111
The story of a Cow and green grass

There is a Cow. It is hungry. The owner took it to
the grass lands and fixed it with a rope and an iron staff (big
iron nail) in the middle of the grass land. He went away for
some work, expecting that cow would eat the grass to its
satisfaction.

The cow is “fatalistic” in mind like many of us in
our lives.

So what it did was to move its head (it was in lying
down position) to left and right ate the grass in that purview
and kept quiet. The grass in its reach is over and its still
hungry. It wanted more grass but it did not know how to get
it. It thought that only that much grass was written in its
fate.

One traveller observed its plight and said, if you stand
up then more grass can be eaten. Then the cow put efforts,
got up and has eaten the grass around itself and then stood
still not knowing what to do further. But it’s hunger also
still remained. It needed some more grass but it really did
not know how to get it. The cow again thought, what else I
can do other than standing up. Hence what ever I got till
now only is written in my fate. May be I am destined to
remain a little hungry today. We humans also have similar
thoughts in such similar circumstances.

Then another traveller who was passing by, observed
the cow and explained to it that he can go far from the fixed
staff since the rope is very long. You can go to the extreme

Astsrology



112
till the rope becomes tight and then eat all the grass arround
in the circle.

The cow now got to see the scope and understood.
It stretched till the rope became tight and ate around the
staff (as centre) in a circle. All the grass in the circle was
his and he ate well and then relaxed lying down waiting for
the owner to take her home.

Now let us see the roles played in this story.
1.  The cow: Any person in life with inaction & fatalism.
2.  The owner fixing the staff : GOD
3.  Total grass in the circle : “Praaptam” for the cow. True
fated food.
4.  Standing up & eating and circular eating : Freewill acts
5.  Travellers : Guides & Gurus.

We limit ourselves by wrong falatistic thinking.
When we have an aim and when we are achieving it, we
should go all out in efforts. At the end of the action only
we shall understand how much was destined for us.

In the above example, if the cow doesn’t exercise
free will, it would get only head stretch grass and it would
have been under illusion that it is only fated for it.

Astrology tells us that circular grass is actual fated
food but we do not know unless we exercise free will, work
for it & reach there.

Astsrology



113
The message of the story is the clarification of fate

and free will. The glory of free will and action is given in
the following sloka. This sloka glorifies human action.

sloka:
TXZå uúúyu¬N˛Áz ÆÁz\åÁåÁ™ ÃoÁ{∫uú
ETXZå ƒ{åozÆÁzuú úÁt™zN˛™ åTXZuo
Gachan pipeelako Yojananaam Satairapi
Agachan Vainateyopi Padmekam nagachati

Meaning : Even an ANT tries and goes to reach 100
Yojanaas distance. Even Garutmantha also cannot go even
one step further if he does not move.

Astsrology



114
11. HOW TO BENEFIT from ASTROLOGY.

All the shastras throughout the ages right from
VEDAS to PURANAAS & ITIHASAS were given to
mankind only for the purpose of guidance and upliftment
of the human being. If there are any negative results
experienced by following the shaastras, the fault lies in
that person’s wrong interpretation and defective
implementation.

The one subject which has experienced this sort of
bad name and contempt from a section of people is surely
Astrology.

The reason is that most of the astrologers with low
level of knowledge have been giving half cooked predictions
which easily go wrong or become partially correct. They
don’t improve by feedback and with time, more and more
such astrologers get added to the existing ones. Very rarely
we can find a true expert, non commercial, astrologer with
high success rate.

Now, the question is in what way we can get
benefited by the subject of Astrology. If we know, then it
becomes a permanent consultant for us, and we will be
always happily living with it.

Since a horoscope is a designed prarabda Karma
for us, we should neither blame it for its deficiencies, not
compare it with any other horoscope. When we know that
we only selected our horoscope in the SOUL stage, we
should own it and do the following to assimilate horoscope
into our lives.

Astsrology



115
1. Understanding the Horoscope.
2. Accepting the Horoscope whole heartedly.

1. Understanding the Horoscope.
First, the general structure has to be studied and the

following are to be understood.
a. Horoscope shows our personality (Physical,

mantal, spiritual) and the interests and inclinations, passions
if any etc., and tells you whar you are.

b. The mental qualities formed have to be
understood, like short temper, dullness, communication
etc., and for every negative tendency one has to put efforts
in the opposing direction to improve on a continuous basics.

c. The arishad vargas become easier to control when
understood by the planetary combinations of horoscope,
we have to attack those which are at high level and are
influencing our lives. If we don’t analyse then, we would
think that all people have these qualities and it is normal
and we take them for granted.

Ramana maharshi, showed us the path of “Who am
I” to spiritually realise ourselves. As a first step at physical
and mental level, if we want to know ourselves by
“Introspection”, it rarely takes us to the truth. Because we
are analysing ourselves with our own Mind and EGO. They
colour the picture according to their levels and nature.

If we analyse ourselves impersonally and
dispassionately through our Horoscope. we can know

Astsrology



116
clearly about ourselves, With all positives and negatives.
Thus, it would be a great starting point for successfully
progressing on the path of Bhagavan Ramana’s “Who am
I”. This is the greatest advantage of having the knowledge
of “Astrology”.
2. Accepting the Horoscope.

We have to own our Horoscope then we feel
responsible towards it, like a father owns a ‘SON’ with all
his positive and negative qualities.

When we own our Horoscope, then we take
responsibility for the negative qualities existing in our
personality revealed through Horoscope.

Then we put efforts to improve, leading to actual
personality development. Finally with the help of
horoscope and with time and efforts, we can achieve a
transformation of the personality.

Every Horoscope has to be studied for total
challenging situations it is offering in our lives.

If we consider an example, if in a horoscope the 4th
bhava, lord and Venus are hemmed with malefics, and are
connected to 8th bhava or lord, this creates a possibility of
vehicles accidents. If one is aware of the above then without
comparision to anybody he should, as a compensatory
measure, follow the practices given below.

1. Never rash drive and impose a self speed limit.
2. Let others overtake you. You don’t overtake

Astsrology



117
others.

3. Avoid driving if possible.
4. Daily recitation of “Maha Mrityunjaya mantra”.
In another example, one of my friends had “rough

talk” combination. Rahu in 2nd aspected by Saturn, When
aroused, obseue language flows from him. He wanted to
improve his condition and asked me.

He became aware when I explained the structure,
that it is inherent in his personality. He started a practice
of smooth talk which was difficult to maintain under
excitement, on my advise he set up a long time frame with
deep intention and also practiced remedies to Rahu &
saturn.

After the time frame, there was remarkable
improvement people who met him after that time gap could
clearly notice the change. He was very thankful to me.

This is how a challenging situation has to be selected
from the  horoscope and with time and action, gain victory
over that.  An astrologers guidance may be continuosly
required.

This kind of internal fighting with bad qualities is
the one which is called ‘JIHAAD’ in Islam. Wrong meanings
were inserted probably in later periods by people who are
pseudo islamics. Hence ‘JIHAAD’ and ‘ KAFIR’ meanings
were disorted and assumed dangerous proportions and the
result is there for all of us to see in this world.

Astsrology



118
The planets have to be considered as “Instigators”

but not “task performers”. Final human action based on
“dharma” is only held in high esteem. If we read some of
the statements by the famous western Astrologers, we
understand how they gave importance to human action only.
Let us see some statements.
1. The stars tempt a man but don’t compel him for doing an
Act.

----SEPHARIEL
2. Astrology teaches you to help, Your planets to help
you

           ---- CHEIRO
3. Astrology warns you of the broken road ahead, but the
mender is always within you

---- CHEIRO
4. Temptation is caused by the past tendancy through the
index of planets. But the fall is always caused by the EGO

-----MAX HEINDELL
Many people ask a very simple question, that they

tried their best sincerely but could not succeed. I shall
explain about a ficticious situation to understand the
problem.

Consider that there is an expert Bharata Natyam
dancer. She was invited by people from a village in Rajasthan.
The village people being poor and innocent, didnot construct

Astsrology



119
a stage. They put a big sheet of cloth on the sandy land and
requested the dancer to perform. naturally she lost her
rythm and could not dance well.

Similarly if she is made to dance in a marshy land,
she would not perform well.

But if she is made to dance on a standard stage in a
hall, we would know how great a dancer she is.

The problem here is not with the skill set or expertise
nor the interest. Failure happened because of lack of stage
or background.

we all are like that dancer in life. We put sincere
efforts in a correct manner, but encounter failures, because
of the background conditions not supporting us, and also
“praaptam” astrologically not being strong.

“THE FORCES  ABOVE  ASTROLOGY”
A question arises as to which forces in nature, can

overcome the forces of Astrology. The wise masters have
declared as follows.

1. Blessings of GOD
2. Protection of GURU
3. Power of our own MIND.
1. Blessings of GOD : We have learnt about

remedies. But they are for specific events, situations or
planets or dasas etc. But if one has ‘Pure bhakti’ and in
constant touch with divinity, he will surely get signals to

Astsrology



120
escape dangerous situations.

The one who is in the fold of “Amma varu” with
parayana of the lalitha sahasra namam, there would be
protection for him from bad influences of the planets.

Even during dasa / antar dasas, the graha stotra and
the deity worship if done daily with pure mind ensures
protection surely during those dasas. There have been great
examples of high reduction in suffering due to the divine
intervention. But it has to be done sincerely, continuosly
and with a pure mind.

2. The Protection of GURU
Blessed is the one who has a spiritual master as his

GURU. A true GURU looks after a disciple more than a
father looks after his SON. He puts the disciple in the right
path, cautions and protects him from the bad periods of
life and supports him always with his power & blessing. In
Hindu Dharma, a GURU’s status is next only to GOD.

In our spiritual literature there are so many instances
where GURU with his power, has protected the disciple
from bad planetary influences. It is also true that if a person
is in spiritual sadhana, the bad influence of planets on such
a person is not supposed to be severe.

Hence the protection of a SADGURU for disciple
is next only to GOD. Sometimes the GURU’S suffer the
bad effects by taking them on to themselves where as the

Astsrology



121
disciple may not even know about this.
3. Power of our own MIND

There appears an anamoly here The ‘mind” is as set
by the horoscope. How can it cross the power of
horoscope? ( The MIND in horoscope is a combination of
MOON, MERCURY 5th bhava and lord, 3rd bhava and lord).

We have to enquire further into the concept of mind.
The MIND essentially is in two parts. The conscious and
the sub conscious. The above astrological explanation is
about the concious mind only. The sub conscious mind is
extremely powerful and also is connected to the universal
consciousness (GOD HOOD).

If any idea generates from the sub conscious mind,
instead of from conscious mind, then the sub conscious
mind takes up the responsibility to make it succeed and
accordingly changes the surroundings and the
circumstances to make them suitable for success of the
idea generated.

For an idea to get generated from the sub conscious
mind, there should be great passion for that idea in the mind
of the person and he should repeatedly dream about it.
Before  sleep and while getting up, we should always think
only about that idea, action  and results.

All the great achievements in any field were achieved
only by the thought generation from the sub conscious mind
only.

Since the sub conscious mind is connected to
Astsrology



122
GODHOOD, its potential is beyond normal human
comprehension. Effects of self hypronis (aware or
unaware) towards positive or negative results are from
subconscious mind only.

By practice, if we can generate thoughts from the
sub conscious mind, then the mind power in life is capable
of rising above the planetary influences. That’s why people
with passionate desires and ambitious, inspite of repeated
obstacles and failures, acheive seemingly impossible
objectives and successes. The secret is without they being
aware, they would have employed their sub conscious mind,
to work for them.

I know that the whole exercise is a difficult process,
but I believe in the possibilty since I also believe that GOD
gave MIND to MAN to become a MASTER, not a SLAVE.

Astsrology



123
12. THE NATURE OF GOOD

ASTROLOGER
Astrology is a sacred science meant for guidance

and upliftment of man. So the Astrologer has a great
responsibility towards society. All the major classics have
insisted that Astrologers necessarily should fulfil the
following conditions, to be called good astrologers.

1. Should have internal and external cleanliness and
purity.

2. To be in “Satya Nishta” and be in daily worship of
the deity.

3. Even if he takes nominal fees, money weakness
should be absent.

4. Should show diplomacy while dealing with times
of severe hardships and extra marital relationships.

5. To talk, decide & predict about the time of death
is prohibited.

6. Should not discuss ones horoscope with anyone
else.

7. To ensure happy and comfortable exit of people
who come with anxieties, with proper guidance and
encouragement.

The situation existing today due to the extensive
availabilty of the visual and print media is the claim of every
other person as an Astrologer.

Astsrology



124
Knowing about stars, Rashis, planets and transits

does not make one a good astrologer. This is a subject more
based on intuition than intellect and fact collection. Truely
good astrologer with in depth knowledge have become rare.
It has become extremely difficult for a common man to
decide who is a good astrologer in public life.

We see in various TV channels the analysis of the
horoscope of great personalities, by the so called
astrologers. It is so misleading on many occasions. For
example, Mr Narendra Modis horoscope was explained by
two different astrologers in two different videos, one with
scorpio ascendant and the other with Libra ascendant. Both
look very impressive to the viewers. But one has to be
absolutely wrong. Nobody knows which one.

There are 3 or 4 different horoscopes or same
horoscopes with different ascendants existing on internet
for many famous personalities. Make a video upload and
encash. That is the process, Gullible viewers who want to
know the truth are trapped with fake truths.

Analysing a famous persons horoscope is not at all
difficult. Person with minimum knowledge in Astrology
also can do it easily. It is only a matching technology. One
matches the very well known events from the life of the
famous personality with the positions of planets in the
horoscope, dashas and autar dashas. That’s all.

A test to true astrologer is the following one. Take
a high level horoscope like that of Sachin Tendulkar,
Amitabh Bachan or Rajasekhar Reddy. Change the name

Astsrology



125
and the birth details to escape suspition. take it to the
astrologer and simply say that this is your friends
horoscope, as if he is in some difficulties and you wanted
to know when that friend would settle in life.

First of all he does not have the ability to know that
it is a high level horoscope with yogas. Nor can he decide
the direction of life (Sports, politics etc). He would
primarily study the horoscope as a random horoscope and
would tell you not to worry since good times are seen ahead
(Present time also is actually good). Then he would suggest
remedial measures. He can never tell you the situation
matching the life of the owner of the horoscope. I feel 70%
of astrologers would surely fail in this test. Things they
say would be very far from truth or even reverse to the
actual situation.

In fact if we go to further higher levels of
astrological expertise, the great yogis, for whom the time
concept get destroyed because of their Sadhana, do not need
any horoscope because they have become “trikalagnanis”.
By a look at us, they know all our past, present and future at
one moment. But such yogis are very rare and do not reveal
themselves in public.

There are 72000 naadis in the human “Astral Body”,
out of which one is the “Jyothisha Nadi” when the “kudalini
sakthi” rises from mooladhara and travels upwards and
reaches the ‘Aagna Chakra’, between the eyebrows, the
jyotisha Nadi would become charged and live and the

Astsrology



126
“saadhaka” becomes “trikalgnani” with the destruction of
the concept of time. It is said that due to poorvajanma
punyam, very rarely people are born with jyotisha Nadi
being active. Without the need to study Astrology, they are
capable of clearly visualising anybody’s future.

The depths of the subject of Astrology can not be
fathomed by normal people. As the depth increases, the
precision of prediction also increases. At very deep levels
of knowledge, the divine experts of Astrology can tell
events with pin pointed accuracy. Such expertise can’t come
by just book reading and discussions. Deep adhyayana and
spiritual sadhana must accompany. When such experts ripen
into old age stunning predictions are possible.

I know one such example. One stranger approached
a so called such expert in Astrology in the ancient city of
Varanasi. The astrologer was a famous grand old man of
varanasi who is presently no more.

He held the strangers horoscope in the hand and
immediately said  (without waiting for any questions).
“look, a month back you hit a dog with such a big stone that
it instantly died. what a great SIn it is? You have to do
pariharam for the same immediately”.

The stranger was aghast with surprise, since except
himself no body else knew it. Even guess work is not
possible since the stranger is coming from a far off place.

What actually happened is this. One stray dog used
to come to his house in his village frequently and used to
bark and disturb him. He used to scare it away. One day

Astsrology



127
when he was on the roof, the dog came and was barking
loudly. Highly irritated, he took the available big stone and
hit the dog from the roof. The dog got hit on the head and it
instantly died. He threw the body into the fields ensuring
that nobody was watching.

The Astrologer further said “see, while coming to
my house, on the way, you had urinated to the wall of the
graveyard. Is it not the most sacred place after the temple?
This act also requires a pariharam to be carried out,” said
the expert. In my opinion, this was told with the help of the
days transit planets.

Such is the indepth expertise possible by the
masters, who’s clan is surely diminishing with time. I
suspect that this was the kind of expertise existing with
many of the maharshis & Astrologers of Ancient times.

The times of those flowers of fragrance is past. Most
of the so called experts of the present times are like
colourful plastic flowers with artificial scent.

Astsrology



128
13. GOD’S Equations & Questions.

Sloka :
\ãoÓåÁ™ å∫\ã™ tÏ¬|ß™ Ão \ã™ N˛Ázub ∆ÏNw˛o{ úÏå{∫uƒåÁ ¬•Æoz
(Jantoonam Narajanma Durlabhaam sata janma koti

sukrutai  punairvinaa Labhyate)
Meaning :  It is extremely difficult to get a human life out
of the past animal lives. It is the result of many good karmas
done in humdreds of past lives. It may not come once again.
It is the present opportunity.
Sloka Bhagavat Gita (101 : 15)

∫Á\uÃ ü¬ÆÁz™ TnƒÁ N˛™| ÃÊVy  \ÁÆoz
oo: ü¬yåÀo™uÃ ÃÓáÁ ÆÁzuå Ï \ÁÆoz.
(Rajasi pralayam Gatwaa karma sangishur Jaayate
Tatha praleenastamasi Moodha yonishu Jaayate).

Meaning :  At the time of death, when Rajoguna
dominates, he is born as human to do karma. If Tamoguna
dominates, he goes into Neecha yonis. when satwa guna
dominates, he would be born into homes with spiritual
wealth.

If we understand the above slokas clearly, then we
know that the human birth is granted very rarely as a result
of past good deeds. Wise men say that human life is a big
opportunity created by GOD. We should realise this fact
and do good karma and do Maanava Seva and Madhava seva
to retain the huma birth again and again.

Astsrology



129
Many of us come to a sort of intuitive automatic

wrong conclusion that once a human birth is achieved, then
it is going to be always a human birth. there is no such
automatic equation in the kingdom of GOD.

The author philosopher “MALLADI” says God has
given us twin legs in this life. If we have not moved and
lived properly, to create stability & to avoid a fall he will
grant us four legged Janma.

To ensure a human life in the next birth, first we
have to live as ordained by the lord (as per dharma) and
help people in need and feed the hungry and lead a life of
spiritual saadhana.

If we suceamb to arishadvargas then they dominate
at the end times and surely we would not be granted a human
birth. This is a cosmic rule and nothing can alter it. Gita
says that next janma is surely as per the mind condition at
the time of death. That mind condition will not be under
the control of mind but under the control of Vasanas,
samskaras & karmas. To ensure a good, pure mind at the
end, we have to start a practice much before in life.

Many of us carrying out certain good deeds, poojas
etc immediately feel that they would be accounted by GOD.
GOD is not gullible. His rules are precise.

First of all he would not count any pooja or good
deed of one does not have the “inner purity” or the
“Antahkarana shudhi”. In such aspects he cannot be cheated
since he is “Hridaya Narayana” and also “Sarvantaryami”.

Astsrology



130
What we conclude about ourselves is irrelevant.

what he decides about us is final.
For example, it is said in Shastras that the most

suitable and easy “Dharma karyam” one can perform in
Kaliyuga is “daanam”, that is to ‘give’ to the needy.
Sloka:

oú: ú∫™ Nw˛oÆÏTz fizoÁÆÁz™ aÁå™ÏXÆoz
˚Áú∫z Ær™zƒÁ“Ï tÁå™zN˛™ N˛¬{ÆÏTz

(Tapah param krita yuge Tretayam Gnanamuchyate
Dwapare yagnamevahu Daanamekam Kaliyuge).
Meaning :

Tapas is the most suitable punya kaaryam in krita
yugam. In treta yugam it is gnana yogam. In dwapara yugam
it is yagna karyam. And only “Daanam” for Kaliyugam.

Wise astrologers said that to give “daanam” also is
a “yogam” because

The man with riches, may not have the mind to give
“Daanam”.

The man with a pious mind eager to give “Daanam”,
may not possess anything worth giving.

Now let us see GOD’s equations w.r.to “Daanam”
performed by human beings.

Astsrology



131
GOD’s equations about “Daanam”

1. First of all, if we feel egoistic about “giving”, it
shall not be counted as given. We have to feel (see the need)
in the heart, give in an unseen manner and forget soon.

2. Any “daanam” given out of the “Adharma”
earnings can never be counted, even if done as above.

3. We should feel fortunate to have got this
opportunity from GOD, for giving with bhakthi, we should
think and say to god, that I am giving back to you, your own
money.

4. If there is propaganda & news making about the
“daanam” made, it shall not be counted. In God’s view
“daanam” means “Gupta Daanam”.

5. What is counted by GOD in “Daanam” is not
rupees, dollars or things, but percentages.

If i give Rs. 10000 to an institution, it is taken
as 0.01% of my net worth of Rs. 10 crores. Similarly if
one beggar gets two idlis and he gives one to the next hungry
beggar, then it is counted as 50%. This beggar is the king in
the GOD’s empire.

6. In this Kaliyuga, the result counted for good
actions is very generous since it is very difficult in this
yuga to realise the value of good deeds and perform them,
overcoming the effect of “Kalipurusha”.

7. There is another equation set for the people of
Kaliyuga. That is,

Astsrology



132
Manasa  =  Vaacha = Karmana
(Thought)   (Speech) (Action)
This kaliyuga equation is a blessing for sukarma and

a curse for dushkarma.
If I kill my enemy in my thought as an example, then

the SIN for actual murder is fixed. Due to old age, if I am
not able to go to Badrinath, and make my trip by mental
imagination, while singing the same bhajans, the ‘Punyam’
of visiting Badrinath is counted. It depends on us whether
we are using the above equation positively or negatively.

All the above points, do operate strictly as
mentioned. We can be careful by being aware.
Now, GOD’s Questions

If we study the post death phenormena in Hindu
dharma, the departed soul shall be shown the whole picture
of life spent on Earth.

Now, the positive and negative karma results shall
be taken from the life and also the ripened and ready to
sprout sanchita karmas are added and a next birth, shall be
consolidated for the jeevatma with sukshma sareera.

A suitable Janma is selected as per the above
consolidation and the jeevatma takes rebirth in the place
and circumstances suitable to that horoscope totally
representing such karma.’

This is a continuos action of “Parameswaras” Janana

Astsrology



133
Marana circle with strong and irrevocable rules and
regulations.

Now, let us see what sort of questions ‘Easwara’ puts
us when we meet him at the end of our life. we may feel we
lived a life well. But these questions surely would expose
us and instill wisdom in us so that we surely can take care
before the end of life.

1. How many times did you help the needy in your
life? when & in what way?

You know that maanava Seva is my seva. Knowing
this how did you implement? how your existance was useful
to others?

2. Did you live without malice and jealosy, with pure
“Antahkarana”. Did you genuinely feel “Sarvejana
sukhinobhavantu”.

3. When you showed hatred, did you later remember
me and repent? Did you control your ego?

When you are about to ridicule challenged
(Economically, mentally) people, did you remember me
and then did you help them?

4. Have you become aware of the sole purpose of
human existence? To realise the inherent - divinity in man?

Did you study shastras, served a sadguru and
spiritually understood life?

Astsrology



134
Did you at least start the aadhyatmika saadhana in

this life? to utilize the opportunity of human birth?
Now, the glory of achievements in the present life,

the luxury living, power, position, difficulties, diseases and
insults, none of these in our lives would bother GOD
because he knows that these are results of the prarabda
karma.

Hence, if we understand his questions and live
accordingly, the human life shall be successful and fulfilled
in the eyes of GOD.

Astsrology



135
14. HINDU DHARMA - The Path to GOD

The most ancient of all religions in the world is
Hinduism. It is supposed tobe not a “Religion” but “Sanatana
Dharma”. No single person started this dharma unlike all
other religions of the world.

The Hindu dharma started from ‘VEDAS’ which were
described as “Apaurusheyas”, meaning not given or written
by any human being.

The “Sanatana Dharma” when followed, uplifts any
human being and puts him in the path of ‘GOD’ with full
knowledge and awareness. This is meant for “ Viswa
maanava” and anybody can follow the principles if they can
eliminate from their minds the prejudiced religions
attitudes.

Officially, the roots of civilization is declared to
have started around Mohenjodaro approximately in 5000
B.C. this may be a premature conclusion since certain
evidences give a glimpse of an unknown glorious past. We
are still far from the truth, w.r.to the ORIGIN and TIME
SCALES concerned with HINDU DHARMA.

For example, a VISHNU statue, which was found in
deep excavations in South America proved to be of 10,000
B.C., as per carbon dating.

I read a book in my younger days which was
researched and written by a Boudha Bhikku. His name was
Bhikku Chamanlal. He wrote a book “THE HINDU
AMERICA”. It is proven in this book, with photos, sketches

Astsrology



136
etc that the whole of South American continent before a
long period of time in the past, was a great HINDU empire.

As said before, all the religions of the world started
with the teachings of a prophet or a saint. The great prophets
were elevated human beings. They formed principles,
conditions and advises from the divine knowledge they
received, for their disciples to follow, which with time
became big religions.

The religions have strived to guide a regional group
in specific and humanity in general. It is not their fault if
few of the religions have gone into unwise and non universal
hands and became prejudiced, symbolic, self centerd,
causing division and destruction.

Since the birth of major religions, conflicts have
been there between them. This is basically due to religions
expansionism superiority complex and resorting to
conversion processes which were not in the thought process
of original prophets.

Religion belongs to a corner room in a house.
Religion should not have ambition w.r.to conquesting of
lands and conversion of people. The truth is one, and all
prophets had experienced it and certified it.

There is an Universal truth propoinded by hindu
dharma. That is

EKAM SAT, VIPRA BHUDHA VADANTI. If VIPRA
is replaced by the word “prophets” in the above statement,
then the secret is revealed that all prophets are revealing

Astsrology



137
the same truth in different ways suitable to different people.

The conflict arises when one says that his only is
the truth to the exclusion of others. The first of the
following statements causes conflicts. The second
statement actually is the truth and instills wisdom.

THIS ALONE IS THE TRUTH
THIS ALSO IS THE TRUTH.
If we analyse, each maharshi of the Hindu dharma

was equivalent to a prophet contributing towards the dharma
The Trimathacharyas (Adishankara, Sri Ramanuja and
Madhwa) can be considered as great prophets of their era.

The hIndu sanatana dharma was continuosly
strengthened by Maha Rishis, great yogis and maha bhaktas.
Enormous spiritual literature was created. Hindu dharma
brought GOD from heaven to Earth.

If there is anybody in the world with yearing for true
wisdom and knowledge, they are attracted towards the Hindu
dharma.

The examples are Dr. J.B.S. Haldane (Astro
physicist) who lived in Orissa in his old age and Dr. David
Frawley (Vedantist and Astrologer) and many more known
and unknown.

The enormous spiritual literature generated in
HINDU dharma is directed towards two fundamental
aspects. One is to cultivate the knowledge and awareness
of GODHOOD and how the individual SOUL (Jeevatma)
finally conjoins the Universal  SOUL which we call GOD.

Astsrology



138
The second aspect is the actual process and practice of
attaining GODHOOD, if one is the theory, the other is the
practice.

First, to attain the knowledge of the divine, the study
process starts at the age of around 10years with an activity
called “upanayana”.

We should understand an important message here.
The social scientists throughout the world, have declared
that the most sensitive period for any human being is his
teenage. Teenage is defined as the period between thirteen
to nineteen. This is the period of various inputs, habits,
confusion, misunderstandings, teenage affections, lack of
direction etc. On the whole, it is a period of mental
turbulance wrong mental inclinations and ideas may get
fixed at the end of teenage which influence the whole life.

When the process of “upanayana” takes place, the
boy with elders guidance, is on the path of seeking
knowledge. In fact most of it in those days was spiritual
knowledge and once he gets a taste of true Vidya, he loses
interest in meaningless knowledge, bad habits etc. By the
time he crosses the teenage, he becomes knowledgeable
about his body, mind and spirit and the possibility of doing
a mistake becomes remote.

When he attains the age of youth, he won’t be an
example of “Bramhachary, Sata markataha” and enters
grihasthasrama with great dignity and knowledge and
becomes a true Brahmin. The Brahmin here is used not as a
word of caste but indicating actual meaning of a brahmin,

Astsrology



139
which is as follows.

Janmato Jaayate sudraha,
Karmato Jaayate Dwijaha,
Veda pathanena vipraha,
Bramha Jnanena Bramhanaha.
From the above, it is clear that a person can be called

a Brahmin only when he is a Bramhajnani or the one who is
on the path of spiritual progress. The knowledge gain and
practice go on parallely for a seeker.

The second element mentioned was the practice of
following the path towards GOD.

In other religions, a prayer is the main channel to
GOD. Confessions and meditations are also practised but
there is no specific structure to reach GOD, other than the
above.

But all religions of the world produced great saints
known and unknown, at regular intervals, in the history. This
means that all of them were (though belonging to dofferent
religions) yearning for the same Godhead, undergoing same
divine experiences and were leading lives based on truth,
non violence, service along with prayers & meditations.

This is a proof of the following sloka told by
wisemen, as is already mentioned before.

Ekan sat, viprah bahudhaa vadanthi.

Astsrology



140
Here ‘Vipraa’ can be taken as the masters and saints

of religious of the world.
Hindu dharma has a structure of various elements

in sequence, which when practised and followed would take
us to the GODHOOD. There are proofs for this
phenomenon as certified by great Yogis throughout the
spiritual history of INDIA.

Sufism (which is considered as a branch of Islam)
is one process which comes close to Hindu yogic process
of God realisation. Most of the great saints of Islam were
sufi masters of very high order. To remember a few, Hezrat
Nizamuddin of New Delhi, Kwaja Moinuddin chisti of
Ajmer and the dattavatar Sai baba of Shiridi and hazrat
Tajuddin baba of nagpur and many more can be noticed in
history.

Many great Indian yogis had sufi masters as Gurus.
Shirdi sai babas guru was a great sufi yogi Hazi varis ali
shaw. Hazrat Babajan was a great SUFI Yogini who had to
run out of Afghanisthan and roamed around Kashmir and
finally settled in Mumbai. She was a Gurumaa for the
famous MEHER BABA who is well known to all of us as
an avataar. Even vice versa is true. Kabir das had ramananda
as guru and Sidhaiah, a muslim was a prime disciple of Sri
Veerabramhendra Swamy.

Religion since its based on truth and guided by the
prophets, Unites at the highest level. We get stuck up with
symbolism and make it divisive at the low levels due to our
ignorance.

Astsrology



141
Like all mothers are good,
All religions are great,
if we know the core teaching
Human reasoning is faulty because
it is not based on the wisdom, but
is based on the residual ignorance.
When somebody wants to manufracture a machine

they make a drawing and write the sequential manufacturing
process. The drawing is equivalent to the shastras and the
knowledge about God.

For a process to reach God, our Maharshis have set-
up a method called “Ashtanga Yoga” (This is not the
“Ashtanga marga” of Gautama Budha) As indicated in the
name, it is a series of 8 steps.  Though difficult, if followed
sincerely, would surely take one to GODHOOD.

The Ashtanga Yoga Path.
External Cleaning
1. Yama
2. Niyama
3. Aasana -
Internal Cleaning
4. Pranayama
5. Pratyahara -

Astsrology



142
Samyamanam
6. Dharana
7. Dhyana
8. Samadhi -
The “Kundalini power” exists and operates between

No.7 & No.8.
Kundalini, as many are aware, is the cosmic spiritual

force dormant at the root of the spine. This is represented
as a snake sleeping with 3 1/2 rounds. The external
manifestation of Kundalini is the sexual energy.

The 72000 nadis existing in human Astral body,
conjoin at 6 places or chakras in Yoga language.

The root chakra where it is in dormant stage
(sleeping stage) is called “Mooladhara chakra” whose
presiding deity is lord Ganapathi.

On arousal, due to spirtual sadhana, the kundalini
energy rises and moves upward in the “Sushumna” nadi with
in the spine. As it goes up it activates other chakras as
follows.

1st chakra - Mooladhara - Root of backbone
2nd chakra - Swadhishtana - lower abdomen
3rd chakra - manipooraka - Naval region
4th chakra - Anahatha - Heart Region
5th chakra - Vishudhi - Throat region

Astsrology



143
6th chakra - Aajna - Between eyebrows
7th chakra - Sahasraara - Top of the skull.
Now, when kundalini reaches the aajna chakra (The

RUDRA Grandhi) then one becomes “Trikaala Jnani”. There
is no concept of time for him.

By the time kundalini reaches Aajna chakra, it would
have travelled through all previous chakras and Bramha and
Vishnu grandhis. This would give the Yogi enormous sidhis
which he should not either utilize in a wrong way nor get
atrracted towards them.

On further efforts the force of Kundalini rises
further from Aajna chakra and reaches “Sahasraara”. But
Yogis say that this final step requires true blessings of
GOD/ GURU.

Once it reaches Sahasraara chakra (Described as a
1000 petalled LOTUS), it is called “Samadhi” stage.
(Savikalpa and then Nirvikalpa samadhi). This is the status
of the Union of Aatma with paramaatma.

Experts say that the divine nectar flows from above
into the body and the “Ananda” is experienced. This Ananda
can not be compared to any of the worldly pleasures. After
coming out from samadhi, the body and mind yearn to
experience the status repeatedly. This is the ultimate
realisation in life and only a select few are blessed to enjoy
this status.

They further lead their lives on divine instructions.
They will know when to depart and also know at what time

Astsrology



144
the prana goes out of the sahasrara chakra.

One western scholar has explainedd about Hinduism
describing a scene as below.

- One river is flowing.
- On the bank, two saints are sitting opposite to each

other.
- There is a yagna kundam between them.
- There is a cow next to them.
- There is a scared book. He said this is

“HINDUISM” encapsulated.
Now let us see what they are
- That River is Holy “Ganges”
- There is a holy cow.
- Gayatri yagnam was going on.
- The sacred book is “Bhagavat gita”.
- Those two saints are Govinda swaroopa “Ramana”

& “ Ramakrishna”.
Thus he explained Hinduism in a nutshell covering

the 5 “Gakarams”.
( Ganga, Gau, Gita, Gayatri, Govinda).

Astsrology



145
15. TO BE HAPPY - VASISHTA BODHA

I asked a spiritual master, “Guruji, how to live
happily?” “Live like a DOG” came the answer instantly.
“Guruji, I have not understood” I exclaimed . ‘Guruji started
explaining,

See my dear, if you observe a dogs life carefully, it
offers you a great teaching. It is ‘GOD’ when you read it
from back.

Observe what dog does always. It keeps its body
always active. It is never lethargic with respect to bodily
functions.

And its mind is filled with only simple things like
food search, play and attack when required. And it has
nothing else in mind.

So it is keeping its body active and mind simple.
In contrast, look at a man’s life. He moves his body

in vehicles, stays in A\C rooms. Most of the work is done
in a continuous sitting posture. This is exactly reverse to
Dogs life.

Mentally man fills his mind always with worries of
existence, anxiety to earn more money, gain status in
society. This continuously goes on and everybody is in the
same mode. The man does not know living in the present.
While living in the present times, he fills his mind with
“past regrets” and “future worries”. In this “MAZE” the LIFE
in the present evaporates. So he never really “lives”.

Astsrology



146
The method of ‘DOG’ is the way to

HAPPY LIVING
The method of’MAN’ is a sure way for

“PERENNIAL UNHAPPINESS”
The Hindu sanatana dharma has propounded a theory

applicable to all times. That is the unquestionable
“SIMPLE LIVING AND HIGH THINKING”
Gradually with time, we reversed it due to lack of

wisdom and materialistic outlook.
HIGH LIVING AND SIMPLE THINKING.

And, as we progressed in prospority and technologically,
and going away from dharma sastras, we as a society SUNK
deeply into

LUXURY LIVING AND LACK OF THINKING.
If we realise now, in what stage we are, that

awareness can bring us back to the roots,  which is only
correct for all types of human life.

Now, coming back to the discussion of happiness,
we know that man exists at three levels, physical, mental
and spiritual levels. We have to discuss the happiness at all
three levels, astrologically.
1.  Physical level:

The happiness at physical level in normal life is

Astsrology



147
called ‘SUKHA’ and comes from all types of body
comforts. Airconditioning in summer luxurious journeys,
good sleep, food etc., are the few examples. In astrology
the yogas are formed as dehakashta yoga and deha sukha
yoga etc. Since it is linked to lagna lord, the effect would
be throught the life.

Same effects can be experienced when natural
malefics (other than  lagna lord) or lords of dustanas occupy
the lagna bhava.

And, as we progressed in prospority and technolog
If the jeeva and tanukaraka SUN and lagna lord are

linked to dustanas, then he lacks the body comforts. His
body is always put to stress due to the circumstances. He
has to physically struggle on many occassions even if his
financial status is found to be good.

In such situations, first the awareness brings primary
relief and for further improvement, parayanam can be
doneand as a remedy, daily chanting of “Aditya Hrudayam”
and the graha stotra of lagna lord, can be done.
2.  Mental Level:

Happiness at mental level is more complex.
In normal life, happiness at mental level is called

“Santosham”. Mind gets elevated and experiences
happiness when we here good news, experience success
etc. Wise people say that “Santosham” causes happiness
and with time goes out of memory.  But the opposite

Astsrology



148
“Dukham” causes unhappiness and grief and is etched in
memory and surfaces freequently to tease us. This is the
peculiarity of human nature.

For fundanmental happiness of the mind 4th bhava
and the karaka moon should not be spoiled by malefics,
papa kartari and dustana planets. Moon should have paksha
bala (away from SUN) and should not be trapped by
‘Grahana’ of Rahu/Ketu. Combination of Moon, Mercury
with natural malefics is the cause of mental distrabances
and lunacy.
Following bhavas and planets are involved towards mental
level happiness.

a.  4th Bhava - Sukha sthana.
b.  5th Bhava - Viveka sthana.
c.  8th & 12th to be free of planets.
d.  Moon as karaka of “MANAS”
e.  Mercury as karaka of “Budhi”
f.  4th lord placement & aspects.

If all the above are clear, then it means that the
horoscope is offering him a platform for mental happiness.

But since man’s nature is peculiar and so self
centered, that the mind takes for granted, what is given by
GOD through the horoscope, and one finds reasons to
remain unhappy.

His mind would be dragged towards what is lacking
especially in comparision with people around him.

To be truly happy in mind, out of the three important

Astsrology



149
elements in human life, the EGO, the INTELLECT and the
WISDOM, we should strive to increase the wisdom reduce
the EGO and ensure that the intellect operates in between.
3. Happiness at Spiritual Level:

Happiness at spiritual level is called ‘Ananda’. The
final stage of anandanubhuti (spiritual eastacy) is the one
every sadhaka seeks.

First let us see astrologically, what contributes
towards the spiritual happiness.
a.  9th Bhava : Spirituality, guru sthana, teertha yatra.
b.  5th Bhava : Wisdom, mantra sthana, purva punya sthanam.
c. 12th Bhava : Moksha Bhava and a place of meditation.
d.  Jupiter and the 9th lord play a role.

For happiness at spiritual level there are two parts.
First Part: This is the joy of the knowledge when

we study the spiritual literature. When we discover the
unknown aspects, the mind gets elevated. This is a joy.
Similarly when one hears a good discourse on spirituality,
the mind retains the joy for a long time. Similar is the joy
from Satsang. As we go on gaining the knowledge and
clarity, we experience the spiritual joy of knowing.

Second Part: This is a spiritual joy resulting out of
the practice of Pranayama and dhyana.

The experience of true spiritual eccstacy is when
the Kundalini reaches Sahastara chakra. The ‘Ananda’
experience also has a scientific proof as given below.

Astsrology



150
Few british scientists have decided to check the brain

function and the body condition of the yogi in samadhi state.
They set up their equipment and started the test.

When the Yogi apparently went into Samadhi state, they
observed that a whole set of new type of “NEURONS” were
generated in the mind and were travelling to the whole body
parts energising them. Since they were neuro scientists,
they knew all about the types of neurons existing. But the
neurons they were watching, were not matching with any
of the existing models. They were perplexed. The flow
diminished as the yogi came out of the samadhi stage.

Then they knew that those neurons cannot be
produced in normal condition of the body. They were seen
flowing only in the ‘Ananda’ state of Samadhi.

They named them “HAPPY NEURONS” and closed
the experiment.

(From the British journal of Neuro Science)
The Teaching of VASISHTA

This is an episode from the epic “Raghuvamsam”,
written by Mahakavi Kalidasa. The essence of all the vedanta
they say is inherent in this message.

“Indumati”, the wife of “Kaaja” maharaja, in
Raghuvamsham, meets with untimely death.The maharaja
is gripped with uncontrollable grief at the unexpected and
unnatural death of his loving wife.

Then, the “Raja Guru” Vasishta sends a consoling

Astsrology



151
message to the maharaja.

“Raja, don’t grieve, your wife had completed her duty
and went back to her own place. Can you grieve about this?
The paths travelled by different people after death are
different. Their paths and destinations are as per their papa
and punya Karma situations.

Maharaja, I like to remind you a very important
aspect about life. Please listen. For people, the post death
situation only is the natural status. What we see with bodies
and names is an unnatural and impermanent sheath. This is
actually vikruthi.

Before formation of this body, after decimation of
the body, what exists is the free natural status of the ‘Jeeva’
which is “Prakruthi”

When an actor dons the clothes of the character in
a drama, then he becomes the character. After the drama is
finished, he wears his own clothes and goes home happily.
This is exactly a similar situation. Wise men would not
grieve for this.

A thought of permanent residence in this body is an
impossible desire. Your unaware attachment to this body is
incorrect. This is a temporary bondage for you. A person
who is bodily related to your body has  departed and it has
caused so much of grief in you. A wise man like you cannot
wail like a common man. It is unnatural.

Like the trees on a mountain swing during cyclone,
if even the mountain swings, then there is no difference

Astsrology



152
between the trees and the mountain.

This is how Maharshi Vasishta sent a consoling
message to “Kaja Maharaja” to maintain his composure and
regain his balance.

This message is the essence of Vedanta.
“Maranam Prakruthi”
“Sareeranaam Vikruthi Jeevitham”

Astsrology



153
16. HOW TO LIVE - A MESSAGE

How to live meaningfully and happily is the big
question everybody is facing. Life throws at us unexpected
difficult situations very frequently. Every situation is
different and the corresponding reactions are entirely
different. Hence nobody can prescribe life rules to such
situations in general.

There is a GOD ordained path of living as explained
in Bhagavadgita. As common people, it is a stepwise effort
for us to reach such apex level of living. Let us Coordinate
all which was said so far and conclude in a practical way.
Because the message of how to live not only should give us
good life but also should propel us towards the realisation
of self, which we know, is the ultimate aim of life.

In conclusion, following are the steps towards
fulfillment of meaningful life.

1. To gain the knowledge of Advaita Vedanta through
the available vast spiritual literature, Satsanga and Sadguru
seva.

2. To become aware of the role and purpose of
Astrology and understand the general structure and
challenges in your horoscope.

3. Whatever we do, should be done as if that work is
given to us by GOD himself and enjoy the efforts of
overcoming the challenges. Treat the final outcome as
secondary in importance and also as decided by GOD.

4. The above method gives us joy in work and the
Astsrology



154
ability of  not taking the result to the heart. This is a process
towards Gita’s “Nishkama Karma”.

5. Put the ‘Yoga’ knowledge to practice by doing
asanas, pranayama and meditation of course with correct
guidance, to keep ourselves on the spiritual path.

6. Fill the mind with humility and genuine bhakti.
Treat everyone as an image of “Narayana” and help all
whenever possible.

If we observe the above points, we can see that each
one is successively more difficult than the previous one.
Thus the concept of bhakti and helping others naturally
happens to be most difficult. We shall analyse.

If one does yoga & meditation, and help the poor
and the needy, then a lot of “Punya” is gained and with such
a status, a person after death, goes to uttama lokas and after
the ordained period, takes birth in a pious good family. If
he had lived in a reverse way, the result also is going to be
exactly the reverse. After death he travels to adho lokas,
and then after wards takes birth in “Neecha Yonis”. Then he
has to work his way upwards.

In this continuous cycle of births and deaths, based
on punya and papa, ironically there is no place for GOD
and a normal man could never realise ‘GOD’. (Great Yogis
have kundalini as the vehicle for GOD realisation). Hence
the ‘nhakti’ towards GOD or the divine love is actually the
most essential element for GOD realisation for normal
people.

Astsrology



155
With respect to “bhakti”, even ‘Vedavyasa’ required

guidance from Narada Maharshi.
When Veda Vyasa finished division of vedas and

writing of the epic “Maha Bharata”, still he found himself
to be restless and he did not know how to regain his mental
peace.

Then Narada appeared and told him that he shall be
peaceful. Only if he writes an epic to show to the common
man what bhakti is and how God is submissive to only Bhakti
at a primary level. So he ordained vedavyasa to write about
poornavatara Sri Krishna. His janma life story, leelas and
how he came to the rescue and upliftment of his true
bhaktas. Once people read this, they would comprehend
the power of bhakti and the “ bhakti yoga” would become
easiest path to most of the common people to attain “
Moksha”. And Narada also said that after completing the
writing of the so called “ Sri Madbhagavatam” explaining
Sri Krishna janma and leelas. vedavyasa would surely regain
his mental peace.

Then if we analyse about “ Bhakti”, it is the love of
GOD with genuine humility inculcated by understanding
his creation and its vastness. A true bhakta feels GOD in
every aspect of nature.

Who gave the fragrance to flowers?
Who gave the Milk its white colour? Who is

expanding the Milky Way Galaxy?
The answers to all such questions is the lord of the

Astsrology



156
Universe.

Einstein has declared after a deep enquiry into
cosmos and theology,

“ The whole cosmos seems to be operating on
perfect mathematical principles. GOD does not play
DICE”.

To undersstand the true concept of bhakti, one
should study “ Sri madbhagavatam”, with humility in mind.
Sri Krishna was a Poorna Avatar. Reading his leelas would
cleanse the mind.

‘Mahakavi’ Potana, who translated the epic into
telugu, was so genuinely humble that he felt only lord ‘SRI
RAMA’  made him to write the telugu Bhagavatam. Normal
people who have superficial bhakti for materialistic gains,
Lack the true spiritual wisdom. It is moodha bhakti and lacks
power to be noticed by GOD.

The one who has inner purity and genuine bhakti shall
be dearer to GOD even if he is not an adept in shastras and
even not well educated.

Yoga sadhana with out humble bhakti shall make one
a yogi but does not take him towards GOD realisation.

A sincere and pure bhakta who does not do yoga is
eligible for God realisation.

The shastras have recommended different yoga
margas (for Moksha) for people of different nature.

Astsrology



157
1. Bhakti Yoga :
For people with emotions, imagination and humility.
2. Jnana Yoga :
For people with smart intellect and comprehension.
3. Raja Yoga :
For people with lot of patience and calm posture.
4. Karma Yoga :
For people whom the bodily work suits.
So, finally to conclude, one should fill his

Antahkarama with purity, knowledge and wisdom. Then he
should live “ with a spirit of fightining” doing the “ nishkama
karma”. What ever the results are, the process of work is
to be enjoyed as a gift of GOD. If we do this, even defeat
shall convert into victory.
Sloka:

N˛™|ãÆzƒÁuáN˛Á∫Àoz ™Á¢˛¬z ÏN˛tÁYåÁ
™ÁN|̨ ™¢˛¬“zoÏ∫ßÓ|™oz ÃÊTÁzÀƒN|̨ ™uå
(KARMANYE VADHIKARASTE

MAA PHALESHLI KADACHANA
MAA KARMAPHALA HETURBHURMATE

SANGO SWAKARMANI)

Astsrology



158
Meaning: you have the right only for doing the duty. But
you have no right for the results of the actions. Show interest
in the Karma but never on the results.

In this world we have to do our duty (dharma) with
interest on the activity- That’s all. The results shall be totally
as per the Horoscope on which we do not have either the
control or the right.

Following is the last but important sloka from
Bhagavadgita (18:77)
Sloka :

Æfi ÆÁzTyæÁ∫ Nw˛ã  Æfi úÁáÁz| áåÏá∫:
\fi∆yuƒ\ÆÁz ßÏuo∫áwƒ åyuo∫Ãuo∫á™Á
(Yatra yogeshwara krishna

yatra partho dhanurdharaha
Tatra srirvijayo Bhutirdhruva

Neetirmatirdhama)
If we apply the above sloka to the human life
Battle field - is our work situation
Bow & Arrows - Instruments of work
and chariot
Sri Krishna - GOD, Guru & parents
Arjuna - The bhakta, The warrior,

   The worker
Astsrology



159
All the available elements are present, the wisdom

is imparted by Gita and only the ‘ work ‘ remains to be
done. Our situation in life also is similar to this. Get
wisdom and do the work.

The final concluding message is given here
Do not lead life with WEAKNESSES and lack of WISDOM

AND NO WORK

*    *    *
Live with WISDOM, lack of WEAKNESSES

 AND FULL OF WORK

Astsrology



160
17. KARMIC PEARLS OF WISDOM

1. ALL HUMANS AT ALL TIMES AND AGES ARE
GUIDED BY INDIVIDUAL PRARABDA KARMA

2. HIGHER THAN “PRAPTHAM” AND BEFORE
THE “KAALAM”,NOTHING IS DESTINED TO BE
RECEIVED BY ANY BODY

3. THERE IS NO MEASURE FOR ‘WISDOM,THERE
IS NO LIMIT FOR ‘IGNORANCE’

4. EVERY SILVER CLOUD HAS DARK EDGES
EVERY DARK CLOUD HAS SILVER EDGES

5. ASTROLOGY WITH A PERSON LACKING
WISDOM IS A SHARP STONE IN LUNATIC HANDS

6. ABHYAASAANUSAREE VIDYA, BUDHEE
KARMAANUSAARINEE

7. RUNAANUBANDHA RUPENA, PASHU PATNEE
SUTAALAYAA

8. ONE HAS TO BE WORK ORIENTED WITH
WISDOM AND LACK OF WEAKNESS

Astsrology



161
18. IN REMEMBERANCE : MOTHER & FATHER

SRI C.K REDDY SMT CHANDRA MOULI
SLOKA:

™Áo∫™ uúo∫™ Y{ƒ ÃÁqÁo ünÆq t{ƒoÁ™
™nƒÁTw“ uå zåÁo: ÃtÁ Ãƒ| üÆãoo:
MATARAM PITHARAM CHAIVA
SAKSHAAT PRATYAKSHA DAIVATHAM
MATWA GRUHA NISHEVETHA SADAA
SARVA PRAYATNATAHA

Meaning: The mother and father are the living gods for
us. Weshould sreve them by all means and efforts.

“ MATRU DEVOBHAVA, PITRU DEVOBHAVA”
*    *    *

“ A  prayer to parameswara for all of us
ANAAYASENA MARANAM,

VINA DAINYENA JEEVANAM,’
DEHANTE TAWA SAYUJYAM

DEHIME PARVATHI PATHE
*    *    *

--- with gratitude to “SHANTHA VASANTHA TRUST”
[THE END]

Astsrology



162

Astsrology