eo r BF ee . 
FI Viswesw?*?¢ 
. “= ‘. ey a . 


= GY on 
| aSri_G. H.: Visweswara (born in 


1950) has a B.E in Electronics from 


a a } 


Bangalore and a PG Diploma in 
Computer Science from IIT, Bombay, § 
with honours. He has worked in very 
senior positions up to that of CEO 
and MD in the _ Information 
Technology industry, particularly in 
R&D for the past 37 years. He has 
learnt astrology by himself by 
studying many of the best books and 


| authors, including the classics. 


“Astrology of Professions” by Col. A K 


Gour 
Review 
By 
G. H. Visweswara, India 


SA Book Reviewer 


[SA Publisher: The intention of SA book review 
section is not to just praise the author or the 
publisher. Most magazines give glorious reviews 
since publisher’s promise a monthly ad spend in 
their magazines, this does not happen with SA as 
so far we have tried our best to keep SA an AD 
free magazine. If flaws in a book are pointed out 
by the reviewer it is only to encourage the author 
to come out with a better proof read work though 
proof reading is not an easy task. Also one must 
understand the book reviewer is only human and 
bound to make mistakes, yet his mind is the 
average reader’s minds. The major intention 
behind starting this section is to encourage Indian 
authors to come out with better quality books 
which are far better researched and smartly 
presented for the modern readers, who now has a 
global reach & availability of imported books on 
jyotish. The impact of this section has to be to 
create better produced books by the publishers and 
authors combined, which have ample and smartly 
done illustrations, easy to understand language 
which illustrates a technical point in less yet 
simple words without confusing the readers with 
long sentences & round about approach. A good 
book is one which delivers what the title 


promises. ] 


The Book: 
Title: Astrology Of Professions 


Author: Col. A K Gour 
Publisher: Vani Publications, Delhi 
Year of publication: Second Edition 2007 


No. of pages: 217; Price: Rs. 200 or USD $20 
The Author 


Col. A K Gour is a senior faculty member in the Institute of Astrology at Bharatiya Vidya 
Bhavan (school founded by the great astrologer & guru of many Sri. K N Rao) teaching 
astrology to a large number of students & researchers since long. Col. A K Gour considers 


Sri. K N Rao as his guru. 


Sri. M S Mehta introducing Mr.Gour has said that, “He has derived his abilities not only 
from deep study, knowledge & sound judgement but also from his great faith in religion and 
higher values of life.....there very few like him who are totally dedicated 


to the higher values that astrology represents.” 


Sri K N Rao, in his preface, says “Col Gour’s attempt in this book is the first major 
composite attempt by an astrologer to cover these aspects, the path from education to career 
with a link between the two....Col. Gour being aware of such complexities has neatly opened 
some lines of analysis which must lead a keen student on to further research....this book 


gives you the lines along which future research should be done and should progress,” 


Sri. K N Rao’s Preface is short but powerful and as usual thought-provoking. He makes three 
important points: (i) that astrology can be better than educational psychology in helping 
determine the choice of educational & professional patterns (ii) the association/influence of 
malefics & benefics for technical & non-technical areas respectively and (iii) four key career 
patterns that emerge linking education & career. This less than two page preface can be said to be 


a tiny but potent ‘description & prescription’ for analysing the education w career area astrologically. 


Contents 


The important contents are divided into 17 chapters, which are reviewed below. 


1.1 Chapter: Professions—A General Approach 

n this chapter a detailed overview of the significance of planets, rashis, tattwas & 

houses relating to professions has been presented from classic Brihat Jataka, a few 

pioneering researchers and from Saravali. The table of planets Vs professions as per the 
classic Brihat Jataka lists many professions for each planet, which are not exactly in the 
original text, but appear to be extensions made by author based on the generic indications in 
the original (Sri. B Suryanarain Rao’s book on BJ was referred by the reviewer which gives both 
Sanskrit shloka & English translation & explanations). Perhaps it would be better to list the 
professions as it is first & suggest the extensions as done by the author. Suggested reference(s) to a 


(few) good book(s) on BJ can be added for those who wish to study it independently. 


Sri. K N Rao’s table of planets & profession is very useful & insightful information for 
astrologers in current times and works very well in the experience of the reviewer. Sri. 


Hardeo Sharma Trivedi’s planets Vs professions is somewhat general. 


The next section on ‘Planets & professions’ gives a detailed list of Professions Vs 
Planets. However, taking into consideration the material provided so far, it appears to miss 
some possibilities; for example, for Jupiter ‘management experts’ & ‘psychologists’. Next a list of 
professions against each of the nakshatra is listed. But it is not stated as to which ‘entity’ this should be 
applied such as for Moon or 10" lord or lagna etc., though by default one would assume Moon. 
Following this is a neatly compiled list of rashis (signs) Vs professions extracted from the 
works of Dr. B V Raman. The list is quite extensive. Following this are listed (i) broad 
characteristics of nature of profession based on signs (moveable, fixed & dual) (ii) 
characteristics based on the four tattwas (iii) profession as indicated in Saravali based on the 
sign of 10" house in D-1 & D-9. However, there is no suggestion on how to resolve or synthesise the 
results if the indications from these different approaches are conflicting (iv) effects of placement of 
10L in different houses as per Dr. B V Raman (essentially from his How to Judge a Horoscope) 
and (v) two planet yogas for profession, but appropriate caution has been advised for using 


the same. 


Thus the chapter is quite comprehensive in terms of the background information. 


1.2 The Chapter on Educational counselling explains the houses, planets, divisional charts, 
yogas and dashas for assessing the potential for education. The distinction between the 2" 
House, ye house & 5 house has been cleanly brought out. There is no mention of 9H though it is 
considered relevant for certain levels/types of education which may have a role in determining 
profession @& nature of job. The use of the divisional chart for assessing education has been 
described very neatly. The role & importance of dasha is briefly stated. Important yogas for 


good education are listed. 


This is followed by two examples and they are a beauty to read. It subtly weaves in so 
many other techniques of interpretation. It is comprehensive. So much can be learnt from just 
these two examples by a careful reader. In case of 1° example, there is no synthesised judgement 
of a few conflicting readings that resulted from analysing the three charts (D-1, D-9 & D-24). Also it 


appears as if dasha planet alone finally decided the nature of results. 


1.3 Chapter on Self-employment or Service: The importance of knowing this in advance by 
astrology is well stated thus: “This information will be a guiding factor for the parents in 
proper organisation of schooling and higher education of the child ...” The distinction has 
been neatly elucidated in seven (or strictly speaking six) principles, because principle 7 is 
essentially an alternative approach to principle 5. The conditions under which a transition 
may occur from self-employment to service are also stated. The importance of dasha 
sequence coupled to these principles is stated briefly. This is followed by 15 illustrations, 
clearly explaining the application of the principles. 


After the first 2 illustrations, more care could have been exercised on some parameters in 
other illustrations, particularly w r t the way the principles were stated. Hence, there are 
some errors/possibility of confusion in the illustrations, which can be corrected or clarified 
in later editions; a few such cases are given here. The definition of gocharastha & 
Agocharastha (pg 47) can be made clearer as it causes confusion in the illustrations such as in 


Illustration2. Similarly the results of Indu lagna can be stated more clearly (pg 49). 


Illustration Nature of error 


Indu lagna is given as Capricorn, but it is Aquarius (Hora) 


Sat would be agocharastha, because it is 6L, is in 3H which is 
not own house or sign of exaltation & is aspected by 8L. 
There is no exalted malefic in Indu lagna. In fact both 
malefics are in their inimical signs. 

LL is with three Poorna Paramatmamsa planets & these 
aspect the 10H, but it is stated that the PP planets have no 
influence on Lagna/LL or 1oH/L. Indu Lagna (Gem) not 
indicated. 

2L & sL are together in 9H, but it has been ignored. gL Sat 
aspects 3H & 10H and disposits 3L linking these houses, but 


has been ignored. Indu lagna Aquarius has 2 unblemished 


benefics (& the ILL is in Lagna, a friendly house aspected by 


LL, but this has been ignored. 

The PP planet assessment method is suddenly different from 
other examples; in D-g, Sat is 8L aspected by 6L but 
considered gocharastha. 

In South Indian chart, Mer & Sun should be in Libra; 

Count of planets is considered in Navamsa, not done so far; 
Sat is 8L; there is no 3, 9, 10 relation but has been taken to 


exist; 


1.4 Chapter: The First Salary 
ive principles, based on charakarakas, which help determine the timing of first salary 
are elucidated. The influences & dashas are also based on Jaimini system. Six 


illustrations explain the application of the principles. 


Some confusion & errors in the illustrations are given below: This would indicate there is 
scope for further improvement in this chapter to make the statements of principles more 


accurate and the illustrations can also be corrected. 


Illustration Remarks 


“Indu lagna being in 10° to Indu lagnesh is not the stated rule. 
The rule would appear to state that IL/ILL should be 10" or 11" 
to MD/AD. In ppl4, Sun entered Virgo on 7 Sept 1995, a 
rather odd date to get first salary, though month may be OK; in 
ppl 5, all of Sept 1995, Sat was in Aqu, but is treated as being in 
Pis; similarly Jup was in Sco but has been treated as being in 
Sag; these are serious errors. 
According to Jhora Indu Lagna falls in Pis, but has been taken 
as Aqu; ppl 1 has been applied to date of joining as it does not 


work for salary; explanation given is lame; in transit AmK Ven 


was in Gem, but has been treated as being in Lib; hence actually 


ppl 4 does not apply. 


The word Mars transiting is wrong in ppl 2; it refers to natal 


placements; the date given in 9-1-80 but in ppl 4, it says, in 


March; if January, Ven was in Cap & if March, it was in Ari & 


thus would not have Jaimini aspect on MD Lib & hence ppl 4 is 


not satisfied; ppl 5, Sat was in Vir & not Leo as stated, but ppl is 


satisfied; 


In ppl 5 Parasari aspect of Sat considered & not Jaimini; 


1.5 Chapter: Periods of Rise in Profession 
ive parameters that influence the strength of profession & its favourable timing are 
described. These are the 3 divisional charts, the pada lagna, important dashas, role of 
AmkK and favourable transits. Their role is stated rather generally. Three illustrations 
explain the principles & their application in much detail. The illustrations are very helpful. 


There are 2 printing errors in Illustration 1 & 2. 


1.6 Chapter: Professional Distress 
ashas & transits which are capable of causing distress in professional life are 
described. This primarily involves interaction of profession related houses/planets 
with Trik houses/lords, sH/L and certain states of relevant planets. Periods, 
which cause distress and valid suggestions on how to attend to them & reduce or avoid, have 
also been given in the illustrations. The illustrations also point out many other related 
interesting rules of prediction making it that much more useful. The chapter is very well 
written. However, there are some errors which can be corrected--Pg 101: Mercury located in 


2H..it should be 7H; pg 102, D-10: Mars does not aspects Sun in the chart. 


1.7 Chapter: Profession-Focussed Analysis 

n introduction to the entities that play a major role in determining the profession 

are described. These are the three charts (D-1, D-9 & D-10), the Ascendant, the 

yogas & the dashas. The lagnas to be focussed on, viz the birth lagna, karakansh 
lagna & the AK are described. This is followed by a detailed illustration, which is a beauty to 
read & must also be read ‘between the lines’ as it presents many other techniques of analysis 
along the way. A particular feature of D-1o0 has been brought out very effectively. However, there 
is no discussion w rt Pada lagna or karakansh, though these two are mentioned in the early 
part of the chapter. While one can infer that analysis would be on similar lines for these also, 


a mention on the relative weightage or differential significances could be useful. 


1.8 Chapter: Doctors 
he houses & planets which are responsible for medical education are delineated. It is 
shown that for this profession the houses/lords of education & profession should be 


linked. Six principles are stated to establish this profession. The explanations are 


very lucid. This is followed by six illustrations demonstrating and clarifying the application 
of these principles. A few hints on determining the specialisation area within this profession or 


reference to a book which discusses this would be welcome in next edition. 
However some confusions/corrections can be attended to: 


Illustration Ppl 2 is not applied as stated w r t Jup & Moon; it may be useful 

I to remember that all planets have 75% aspect on 4° & 8" 
positions; this could resolve some confusions; Ppl 5 is not 
shown in D-1o; Ppl 6 (dasha) is not met in D-1, but only in D-9; 

Illustration Ppl 5 which applies in D-g has not been shown as stated though 

2 it exists; 

Illustration Printing error in D-9 wrt planets in Libra; D-10 has differences 

3 w rt R-K as seen in JHora; dasha Ppl is not satisfied in D-1, but 
in D-g & D-10; 


1.9 Chapter: Lawyers 

The houses, planets, charakarakas & dashas that determine the profession of lawyers in a 
horoscope are described. A few hints on determining the specialisation area are given. Five 
illustrations demonstrate & clarify the applicability of the principles. The first illustration is 


a pleasure to read. There are a few printing errors in illustration 3. 


2.0 Chapter: The Engineers 

The principles determining Engineering profession have been stated followed by five 
illustrations. However, the Sat-Ketu linkage is not very convincing in 3 out of 5 cases. A few 
hints on determining the specialisation area within this profession or reference to a book which 


discusses this would be welcome in next edition. 


The next chapters deal with The Steel Frame (Bureaucrats), Chartered Accountants, 
Journalists, Television Persons, The Fashion Technologies, Hotel Management and 
Computer Professionals. In all these cases, the houses that influence, the planets, the AmK 
& the dashas are used in formulating the principles. There are at least three illustrations for 
each case. The illustrations are very well presented & have many subtle aspects of interpretation 
which a reader will do well to note. Some of them are a pleasure to read & learn. The Role of 
AmK is influencing the specialisation has been indicated in case of CAs, Journalism, Fashion 
Technologies and Hotel management. The ‘derivation’ of the applicable principles is a wonderful 
example of applying fundamentals of astrology to new areas. It is particularly beautiful in case of 


Fashion Technologies. 


2.1 Computer professionals 
he unique feature of this profession in terms of the situation, particularly in our 
country, where even those who have not studied computers formally in graduation 
level but get into this field is very well explained. There are seven illustrations 


amply and ably demonstrating the basic principles as defined to these categories of people. 


Overall the book is worth purchasing & studying carefully and will be an asset in any 


astrologer’s library. 


Test cases: Discussed below are two examples to show the principles elucidated in the book. 


The discussion has been kept to the minimum here. 


1. Lawyer 


Rasi Navamsa 


Lawyer Lawyer 


September 14, 1987 September 14, 1987 
9:46:00 (6:30 east) 9:46:00 (5:30 east) 
75E 13, 12N 46 75E 13, 12. N 46 


AS: 17 Lid4 Su: 2fLeO2 AK Mo: 17 TaSO PiK = Ma: 20 Le 34 MK 
Me: 16Vi39PK Ju: 4Ar60-GK Ve: 3Vi07-DK = Sa: 21 Sc 23 AmK 
Ra: 9PI15-BK Ke: 9Vi15 HL: 9 Sq 10 & 12 Ta 25 


The native completed BA, LLB in 2010. 
Principle 1: close relation between houses 2, 6 & 9 and their Lords. Additionally 3H/L helps 


in the documentation needed by lawyers. 


Mars, the 2L aspects 2H & 6H. Mer, the gL, aspects 6H & is aspected by retro Jup, the 6L. 
Jup aspects 2L Mars & 2H in retro. Jup is also the 3L. 


Principle 2: Interaction between Sat & Jup indicates a lawyer. 
Jup in retro aspects Sat. Jup aspects Sat in D-g also. 


Principle 3: The Amatyakaraka planet would show interaction with houses 2, 6 & g and their 
lords. AmK & its nakshatra lord determine the specialization. 

Sat is the AmK planet. It is posited in 2H & aspects the 2L. It is in nakshatra of Mer the gL. 
Jup the 6L aspects Sat in retro. Sat being in the nakshatra of Mer, both jobs that the native 


got so far are related to corporate matters. 


Principle 4: The right dasha would promote the career. 


The native started the profession in Oct 2010. This was the dasha of Rahu-Venus. Rahu is in 
6H aspected by 9L Mer. Ven is the LL placed in 12H with Mer, the 9L and aspecting 6H. Jup 


the 6L influences both these from its retro position. Ven is also the dispositor of Moon, the 


10L. 


2. Doctor 
Md AL 
Ra Sa HL As 
a SL 
Su 
Rasi Navamsa Natal Chart 
doctor doctor i oe Dasamsa 
April 24, 1972 Gk Aprit 24, 1972 Ma 0-10 
5:55-00 (5:30 east) 5:55-00 (5:30 east} 
77 E 35, 12 N 59 77 E 35, 12N 59 
Gk 
SL Ne Mo Ke 
As: 7 Ar 23 Su: 10 Ar28-DK Mo: 20 Le 51-MK Me: 24 Ta 37- AmK 
Me: 14PIOLPK Ju: 148g 51-PiK Ve: 257a06-AK Sa: 11 Ta 47-GK 
Ra: 7Cp07-BK Ke: 7 Cn 07 HL 3Ar50 Gt: 25 Pi 20 


Principle 1: PAC of 5/10 H/L with 6H/L and 12H/L 
No obvious linkage in D-1 but in D-g, 5L & 12L Ven is conjunct 10L Jup & 6L Mars. 
Principle 2: Jup influences Lagna, 5H/L, 1oH/L and 10H from Moon. Moon has malefic 


influences. 

Jup aspects lagna, 5L & 5H. Moon is aspected by Mars. Jup aspects 10L Sat of D-1 in D-g. 
Principle 3: Luminaries show a link with malefics or trik houses/lords. 

Moon is aspected by Mars & Sun is aspected by Jup, the 12L. 

Principle 4: Technical medical education 

Not applicable in this case 


Principle 5: In D-9 & D-10 there would be PAC connection of 6H/L with 10oH/L. It may 


also influence 3/9 axis. 


In D-g, 6L & 10L are conjunct in 3H aspecting 9H. 6L aspects 10H. In D-10, 6L Mars aspects 
10H & 10L, 


Principle 6: The MD/AD of planets having PAC with 5H/L at the right age for medical 


education. 


The native had the MD of Moon between the ages of 15 & 25. Moon is placed in 5H in both 
D-1 & D-g. 


= 


wow see_qoterishisastrolosay-cocom 


